AUTARTAN
December 6, 1977 Volume 78, Number 13 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Bomb threat interrupts 
Rhodesian group meeting
by Saul Carliner and Paul Henderson
The bomb scare which interrupted the 
Condemn the Rhodesian Project meeting, 
Thursday, December 1, brought on student 
charges about Securitys handling of the 
p situation and charges that CMU officials 
called in the scare.
At 7:36 PM, Perry Molinaro, a reporter 
, for the Pittsburgh Press, received a phone 
message saying the persons in room 45 
Skibo are traitors to their country and for 
that reason a bomb has been planted in 
room 45 and set to explode at 7:45 PM. 
Molinaro explained that the callers voice 
 had a foreign accent.
At 7:38, the Pittsburgh Police called 
CMU and told the desk attendant at Secur
ity about the bomb. Dean Swank was no
tified, a police car arrived on the scene, and 
the room was cleared.
Only those rooms on the bottom level 
of Skibo in the student offices wing 
were evacuated.
^ Students wondered why the entire build
ing was not cleared when the lives of those 
inside were endangered. Those evacuated 
from the building saw people waving from 
the Highlander Room, while they remained 
close to the building despite the bomb 
threat.
When a TARTAN reporter spoke to 
the manager on duty at the Tartan Grill, 
he said that he did not plan to evacuate 
the restaurant. Even Entropy and Informa
tion Desk employees were not evacuated, 
though they were directly above the tar
geted area.
Three students put out a leaflet the 
following day raising these questions about 
the handling of the bomb scare. In addi
tion to the concerns already mentioned, 
they noted Securitys casual attitude. 
and the fact that only one police car was 
assigned to the case. One of the students 
who published the leaflet did not attend 
the meeting.
Mike Corletti, director of Security, 
said that the only area endangered wps 
cleared. Because of the construction of 
Skibo, the Food Service wing was not 
affected, and the upper floor was also 
considered not to be in serious threat of 
danger because of the nature of bomb 
blasts.
Corletti stated that there was just so 
much information and just so much time 
to act in. My on-the-scene decision was 
the proper one.
He continued to explain that the immed
iate danger lay in the lower level. Only 
that portion was able to evacuated by 7:45,
continued on page 3
Police and CMU Security officers check out the bomb scare.
Law limits copying
The arguments
Rhodesians
by Paul Henderson
During, a meeting held Thursday night 
of students opposing apartheid in Southern 
Africa, a group of eight black Rhodesian 
students presented their gripes against 
CMU. Joshua Gwitira, a member of the 
group, opened the meeting.
He gave a short history of the program, 
telling how the 25 students in the Rhode
sian project had answered a newspaper 
ad in the Rhodesian Herald. It announced 
scholarships to study in America, in CMUs 
SUPA program.
The scholarships were open to persons
continued on page 4
SUPA
by Saul Carliner
Addressing the charges of the eight dis
sident Rhodesian students, SUPA Dear 
Otto Davis stated that the students knew 
the terms of the program upon entry' anc 
that the program has the support of rebel 
factions in Rhodesia.
Davis commented that the students 
were told that the program was in public 
management, and the purpose was to train 
competent civil servants, not politicians.
He explained that in view of this, he 
originally envisioned the participants in the 
program signing a contract to work for the 
continued on page 4
by Belinda Quan
The Copyright Revision Act of 1976 
will restrict the use of photocopies in the 
classroom and require the payment of roy
alty fees for musical pieces played on 
campus.
In addition, any published work will 
automatically be copyrighted and remain 
so until 50 years after the authors death. 
Copyright coverage today only lasts 28 
years.
The basic premise behind the law, 
said Ruth Corrigan, director of CMU li
braries, is to prevent the substitution of 
photocopy for book purchases or journal 
subscription.
Under the fair use doctrine, only one 
copy can be made from written works for 
personal use. A professor can make copies 
of journal articles or portions of books for 
classroom use but he can only use them 
once. If he teaches the same course the 
next semester, he would have to use a 
completely different handout.
The law will also affect the interlibrary 
system, used by graduates and teachers to
obtain copies of an article, not found in 
CMU libraries, but available in another li
brary. Within one year, the library may re
quest no more than 5 articles or 5 copies of 
one article from any issue of the same jour
nal published in the last five years.
The law affects the faculty more than 
the students, Mrs. Corrigan added, be
cause the library cannot control the use of 
the Xerox machines. Although the library 
is not liable for the unsupervised use of re
production machines, the user can be liable 
for copyright infringement.
The new law also requires the payment 
of royalty fees for music played at such 
activities as football games, dances or con
certs where an admission fee is charged. 
It is not certain if royalties will have to be 
paid for free concerts where the performer 
is not compensated.
According to Lois E. Cox, Dean of Stu
dents, since performers may charge more
continued on page 3
Dalton explains housing policy changes
by Mike Salemi
Housing Director Gerald Dalton recent
ly answered questions about changes in 
policies and operations in the Housing Of
fice since he became director in September. 
Q: Do you feel CMU presents any unique
housing problems?
A: Yes. The dorms are older in most cases 
and so they do have unique physical prob
lems. The other is the calibre of students 
not intellectual but rather, social.problems 
Pitt students are not coming from a
Profs ignore fire alarm
by Brian Byrnes
One physics piolesioi remarked that 
he would not interrupt class until smoke 
came through the door. when a fire alarm 
sounded in Doherty Hall last Wednesday. 
Two large lecture classes also did not 
evacuate, thinking that the alarm was a 
fire drill.
The failure to leave the classroom 
might have proven harmful if a fire was 
raging, remarked Robert Anderegg of 
Security. The Pittsburgh firemen who 
quickly responded were impeded by the 
reluctance of professors and students
to follow fire drill procedures.
Security sounded the alarm when it ap
peared there was a fire in the building. 
Smoke was discovered coming through 
a vent in the first-floor conference room 
at approximately 11:40 AM, and was 
later found in third and fourth floor 
rooms.
Anderegg claimed that the smoke 
resulted from a spark from a ventilator 
Ian igniting soot which had accumulated 
in the ventilation system. The system 
had been temporarily shut down so that 
inspectors could check for a burned-out 
bearing in the fan.
background where they expect marble 
floors and absolute total cleanliness, where 
I found that here, they are expecting more. 
They pay more money, they are from a 
background where they expect privacy and 
all sorts of special services. We are dealing 
with freshmen who are used to living in a 
private room, request a single, and get put 
into a quad. And that can create some 
problems.
Q: I can imagine. When I had complaints 
about the dorms, it was due to what I saw 
at other schools. It appeared to me that 
they were paying a little more money and 
getting a lot more room.
A: Luckily this university is recognizing
the problems in the old buildings and is 
spending half a million dollars to do 
renovations which are necessary and have 
been ignored.
A lot of these expenditures are in im
provements which the student will not see: 
the masonry on Morewood Gardens, a 
boiler; these are things which will affect us
continued on page 2
SUPSA%
news...
Rhodesian controversy explained 
(Pg4)
Housing contract breaks prohibited 
(Pg 2)
entertainment...
Robert Klein (pg. 15)
Fonzies no hero (pg. 13)
sports...
Basketball report (pg. 20)
fol io...
Lecomte

---------------------------------------------------

page 2TRTANDecember 6,1977
Carnival planning begins
by Linda Deak
Mythology and Legend has been 
chosen as this years Spring Carnival 
theme, according to Charlene Reese, 
Carnival chairperson. She adds, Although 
we are in the basic stages of organization 
right now, we need many more interested 
people, especially those who would head 
committees.
We especially need someone to draw 
up the fireworks contract with Boom 
Boom Zambelli, claimed Reese.
I also admit that I know very little 
about the electrical aspects of Carnival, 
so we desperately need a power person, 
possibly an EE, who would figure out 
wiring systems for the Midway.
Right now Reese is working on the bud
get, hoping to get it passed by the Student 
Senate before the end of this semester.
If we are unable to use the generator 
from Frankies Amusements Company, we 
are going to approach the school soon to 
request a power supply for the four days 
prior to Carnival, stated Reese.
The Spring Carnival Committee has 
changed a few aspects of Carnival. The 
Arts and Crafts Fair, normally held outside 
and open to any exhibitor, will now be 
moved indoors and limited to the members 
of college communities within Pittsburgh. 
People will be in charge of watching the 
exhibits, so that sellers will not have to sit 
with their work all day long.
To encourage more college participants, 
there will be a session offering sales tips 
for exhibitors, such as how to prepare
artwork for reproduction, and what types 
of crafts will profitably ell.
Reese also hopes to add an international 
foods exhibit. It would be operated on a 
volunteer basis; students baking ethnic 
foods could sell them at a booth. This 
would only be included if enough inter
est was shown, she remarked.
By making these changes, we hope 
that more students will participate in 
Carnival. Some people feel that it has been 
too oriented toward Greeks, but there is 
no reason why the entire campus shouldnt 
participate.
Reese stressed that Carnival plans are 
underway, but we need feedback as to 
what students want in the areas of enter
tainment, athletic events, and activities.' 
Anyone wishing to volunteer their ideas or 
time can leave a note on the door of room 
57, Skibo, or at the Information Desk.
v>SL0)*2
Charlene Reese, Spring Carnival chairperson, says planning has begun for the event.
Dalton explains housing policy changes
continued from page 1
in the future and need to be done immed
iately, and are continuing to be scheduled.
It may take a few years before students 
start noticing a difference in lounges or car
peting on the floors or other things, which 
we realize need to be done.
Q: How pressed for funds are you? Can 
the immediate and obvious maintenance 
needs, like a radiator valve, be met?
A: Yes. However, the student must fill
out a maintenance request. We are not
going to be aware there is a problem unless 
it is brought to our attention.
As for funding, we must remember that 
housing is an Auxiliary Service, and our 
only funding comes from room income. We 
get no funds from CMU.
We must run a balanced budget. Ex
penses must match income. When they say 
we are money hungry by putting 4 stu
dents in a room it is because of the demand 
for rooms and because we must balance 
our budget.
Q: Ive heard that you want to stay on the 
job a little longer than your predecessors 
presuming you have a good reputation so 
far, nobody has had TOO many problems 
with you yet-Thats not true...Do you 
think it will be possible to maintain a good 
reputation over a period of time?
A: It is very well known that housing
officers are disliked by students. I am 
going to be disliked by students my first
year at CMU.
I know that well, because I am going to 
try and establish what the responsibilities 
are, what the priorities are in housing. I am 
not speaking against any of my predeces
sors. I am sure that they all had their eyes 
on what they wanted to do for that year.
The big difference is that I do see this as 
a profession. Ive spent the last eight years 
in it, and plan on spending the rest of my 
life in it. This means I am not so concerned 
with changing everything immediately, nor 
am I going to sit back saying, well, since I 
am only going to be here for a year, I dont 
want to cause any problems.
The things I am doing this year, which 
may cause problems for students, will be 
setting precedents for the future. Students 
can complain now and say, this was never 
done in the past. but as we know, three 
years from now, everybody will sit back
continued on page 5
NEWS BRIEFS
Workshop in drownproofing planned
95% of the 8000 Americans who drown 
annually could be saved if they knew 
drownproofing, according to Dr. Reagh
Wetmore, aquatic director of Boston Uni
versity, who will teach a workshop on 
drownproofing Friday, December 16, spon
sored by the Child Care Center.
Drownproofing is a lifesaving technique 
which helps swimmers swim better and 
teaches breathing and arm movements to 
nonswimmers, according to Marsha Poster, 
director of the Child Care Center.
A drowning person can save himself by 
using his bodys buoyancy, conserving
energy, and controlling his breathing. He 
floats face down in a dangling position 
with his head underwater and propels up
ward for air periodically, using a modified 
version of the breast stroke.
Joan Romanition, administrative coor
dinator of the Center, says that drown
proofing is a positive way to introduce 
swimming, and may be taught in the 
Centers beginning aquatics program for 
three to five-year-old children this spring.
The workshop, open to invited guests, 
costs $30, and will run from 9 AM to 4 
PM in the CMU gym. The program includes 
a lecture and a demonstration in the pool.
Staff Council to hold a gripe week
Staff, here's your chance! The Staff 
Council expects at least one suggestion or 
complaint about the working situation 
from every one of you during Gripe Week, 
December 12-16.
According to Barbara McKisssock, Staff 
Council recording secretary, the 
purpose of Gripe Week is to inform the 
staff that the council really does exist and 
can act.
The council, composec^ of 34
representatives, serves a constituency ot 
the 1000 non-union, non-faculty, and 
non-administration employees at CMU.
Me Kissock added that the council tries 
to look out for staff interests and benefits 
without having to go union. She cited the 
choice of pension and vacation plans as 
two examples of Staff Council action.
We know everyone has at least one sug
gestion," Me \ssock stated, and she ex
pects the staff to send them in to Box 20, 
Baker Hall.
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE 
1:00 - 5:00 PM Daily
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

- "December b,1977TARTANpage 3
????????????
Senate murmurs
Walking into the Student Senate meet
ing November 30, I was surprised at the 
number of bodies seated at the main tables. 
Previously, I worried about having an in
sufficient number of senators to constitute 
a quorum, but this was quelled by the 
throng of brand new senators attending the 
first meeting proceeding elections.
Following the usual post-election pro
cedures, Senate elected its officers and 
committee heads. Dave Roussos was unani
mously reappointed chairperson, to be 
assisted by Ken Meinert, new vice chair
person.
Four senators accepted the prestigious 
positions of heading committees. The new 
chairmen are Dan Cordes, finance; Bob 
Fallon, general campus; Linda Deak, 
information, and Carl Fetterol, rules.
John Lubon, student government presi
dent, remarked that various administrators 
did not think very highly of the term paper 
advertisements which appeared in the last 
issue of the TARTAN
Lubon made a motion, ammended by 
John Tumazos that read, Senate will re
commend that the TARTAN not honor ad
vertisements for term papers. A majority 
of senators felt that this was against uni
versity policy, especially with respect to 
plagiarism.
For those tired of doing Christmas 
shopping December 24 because of late 
finals, it was motioned that academic 
affairs investigate the possibility of ad
vancing the last date of finals to December 
21 for the 79 fall semester.
Senate next meets Wednesday, Dec. 7, 
at 6:00 in the Wherrett Room.
CMU accused of placing bomb threat
continued from page 1
and when a bomb did not explode there 
was no need to complete the evacuation. 
At 8:00, the evacuees were allowed to re
turn to their meeting, which was resumed 
in the Wherret Room.
Corletti added that an initial team of 
two Pittsburgh police officers attend all' 
bomb threats. Only if they find a device 
will they call in a secondary disposal 
team._______________________________
"We suspect CMU may have 
called in the bomb scare."
A security officer on the scene stated 
that students, not CMU, created the 
bomb-threat danger.
However, several of the students invol
ved with the meeting disagreed. Members 
of the Zimbawean Task Force, an organi
zation of Pitt students and interested 
community members against the Rho
desian program at CMU, said that the 
administration has harrassed the meeting 
by placing a ban on leaflets advertising it 
and we suspect that they may have called 
in the bomb scare.
The Task Force members were barred 
from the meeting since they were not 
CMU students. In protest, they picketed on 
the Warner Hall sidewalk, along Forbes 
Avenue.
One Task Force member who said she 
snuck into the meeting, began yelling
The SDC space, which normally 
appears on page 2, will return next week. 
The SDC did not meet last week because 
of the vacation.
r
I
I
I
I
I
I



I

I
I
I
I
I
I

I
I
I

I
I
I
I
&
etiHopequalify for stock brokers license by graduation!
potention $30,000/year 
commissions
GUARANTEED TRAINING TO PASS 
NASD-NYSE SERIES 7 EXAM
 Assurance of sponsor 
 Specialized exam career training 
 Classes taught by professionals in securities industry 
 Qualified for employment upon successful passing of exam
Call or write TODAY for further information and a FREE BROCHURE.
(412)241-8255 StaT1
Penn Oaks Professional Building INSTITUTE
Box 117C , 85 Universal Rd., Pittsburgh, PA 15235
A Book is o Loving Gift 
INNER SKIINGBY W. TIMOTHY GALLWEY & ROBERT KRIEGEl
The author of the phenomenal best seller The Inner Game of Tennis teams 
up with stellar ski pro Bob Kriegel to do for skiers what he so successfully 
did for tennis playersimprove their skills dramatically by applying 
innergame techniques Ski instructors have been quick to see the impor
tance of these techniques and ore teaching them in ski schools ocross the 
country.
Inner Skiing is distinctly different from Gallwey s tennis best sellers, 
but it proves again that inner-game principles can be applied to any 
sport. It is the most helpful book ever written on the psychology of skiing
$8.95
obscenities about CMU when the bomb 
scare was announced.
CMU student Duane Gooden believed 
that the bomb threat was a hoax. He
'That CMU called in 
the claim is nonsense/
added that he disagreed with the dissident 
Rhodesians students, since it didnt make 
sense for them to throw a free education 
away.
But since he did not get to hear all the 
facts at the meeting, Gooden said he has 
to go on the Rhodesians side.
Wallace Wiggins, another CMU student, 
agreed with Gooden, commenting that I 
dont think CMU wants people to know
the truth.
One unidentified student said she smel
led something fishy on the part of CMU. 
However, Dennis Schatzman of the 
Public Relations Office, who attended the 
meeting, said that the Rhodesian program 
is a hot issue which was easy to ignite 
with a bomb threat. Schatzman did not 
think CMU was responsible for the bomb 
threat.
Corletti said that the kind of meeting 
made no difference to CMU. There were no 
gripes made about the meeting on the ad
ministrations behalf, and the group was 
even given the Wherret Room after the 
threat subsided.
Such speculation that CMU called in 
the threat is nonsense, Corletti conclu
ded.
New law curbs photocopy use
continued rrom page 1
to cover royalty payments, CMU may have 
to pay the royalty fees, or pay a fee to 
ASCAP and other performing rights soci
eties for the use of their music.
Mr. Alvin P. Brannick, director of the 
Estate Planning Office, stated that the Uni
versity is studying the implications of the 
law. He has directed Corrigan and Cox to 
draw up some guidelines for the libraries 
and student affairs. A policy regarding the 
copyright law will be formulated and 
guide lines will be issued sometime this
month.
The law is confusing, said Dean Cox, 
and the guidelines are unclear.
The copyright law covers literary, mus
ical, dramatic, choreographic, graphic, 
sculptural, and audio-visual works and 
sound recordings. In cases of infringement, 
a copyright holder can sue for actual dam
ages or statutory damages which range 
from $100 to $50,000, an injunction, 
court costs, and attorney fees. Criminal infringment for profit can result in a $10,000 
fine and/or one year imprisonment.
a
(4124 Im 1)-8(15
FopMtpLY tDWApDe BtAUTY eALoi 
ioW UiDtp itW MAiAGtMtiT
UNISEX SALON
144 N. DITHRIDGE STREET
NEWLY REMODELED
HAIR STYLING FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY
FOR WO MENFORMEN
LATEST HAIR STYLE 
PERMANENT 
FACIAL 
MANICURE
PERM 
BODY WAVE 
HAIR STYLES 
MANICURE 
FACIAL
FOR APPOINTMENT...
CALL 682-3500 OR 681-1100

---------------------------------------------------

page 4TARTANDecember 6,1977
Rhodesians oppose CMU and fear for their lives
of any race, color, and creed, and the stu
dents saw this as an excellent opportunity 
to get an American education.
When they replied to the ad, they were 
assured that the program had no political 
connotations, and that all courses would 
be the same ones Americans get.
CMU lacked funds 
Joshua stated, however, that when the 
25 students chosen for the program got 
to the U.S., they found that CMU did not
have the amount of money needed to fully 
finance the program.
In an effort to raise additional money, 
CMU called attention to the program by 
telling the press that CMU was training 
the Rhodesians so they could occupy 
top government positions in Rhodesia. 
Joshua stated that these press releases 
marked them as future politicians and 
turned the supposedly non-partisan 
ject into a political one.
The Rhodesians also feel that participa
tion in the program affiliates them with the 
Ian Smith regime in Rhodesia since that 
regime supports the program. This affi
liation has marked them as traitors to the 
black-majority cause that is presently 
trying to overthrow the government, 
although most of the students support 
that cause.
Joshua was also concerned that the 
contributors to the program had ulterior 
motives for their contributions. He cited 
Allegheny Ludlum, a corporation thatDavis refutes Rhodesian claims
continued from page 1
government in power for three years, but 
the heated political situation in that 
country made that idea impractical. 
Instead, the students signed a contract to 
return to Rhodesia in exchange for the 
education.
He continued to explain that the stu
dents knew from the start that the pro
gram was privately funded through contri
butions from corporations and private 
foundations.
Although he has only raised $300,000 
of the $500,000 necessary to run the 
entire program, Davis feels that he has 
enough money to continue the program 
through the summer, when the American 
portion of the program is over.
However, he may not have enough 
money for the part of the project to be 
administered in Rhodesia. But Davis noted 
that the students have been told from the 
onset that the program must be self-sup
porting financially, and may have to be 
terminated at such time that funding 
runs out.
Davis agreed with Joshuas remarks 
that the boycott of classes has hurt fund
raising, but Davis attributes this to lack 
of time, since he has had to work con
stantly to find ways to get the students 
to return to school.
He added that since the students have 
not officially withdrawn from the program, 
they do not face deportation.
If they do continue to boycott classes, 
Davis says he may have to expel them 
from CMU.
If that should happen, or if they choose 
to withdraw, Davis has to report this to 
the U.S. Immigration Office, since it 
means a change in their status from student 
as listed on their visas. This may lead to 
deportation.
But the students have nothing to fear, 
Davis feels, because red tape prolongs
deportation several months. The students 
also have a lawyer, which Davis feels is an 
asset in further delaying deportation. 
And finally, because the students are 
blacks living in a white-ruled society, 
they could be given illegal alien status.
If the students do withdraw from the 
program, Davis feels they have removed 
my obligations (towards them).'
He added, Im a humane person, but 
there are two sides to every contract. 
He says that he hopes that the Rhodesian 
students return to SUPA, but he feels 
they are afraid to after making the public 
statement denouncing the project.
Davis said that three of the four rebel 
parties, as well as the Smith regime support 
the project. He elaborated that two of the 
rebel parties have openly supported the 
program. One party asked the dissident 
students home, since there are many people 
in Rhodesia who would gladly take their 
place.
imports 90% of its chrome from Rhodesia.
Joshua fears that the corporation is 
supporting the program in order to get 
political pawns in the Rhodesian govern
ment.
Students considered "traitors"
He then went on to say that the 
projects political image has international 
implications.
Joshua said that the black-majority 
rebel forces in Rhodesia now considered 
the students traitors to the majority cause, 
and marked the students as guys who 
went to the U.S. to sell the country to the 
C.I.A.
Also, liberation forces in the neighbor
ing countries of Zaire and Mozambique 
have condemned the program, classifying 
the students as enemies of the liberation 
forces.
Complaints not adhered
Complaints to CMU officials about the 
political nature of the program only eli
cited responses that the students should 
not talk politics because it would make 
money-raising difficult.
Students also asked that statements to 
refute the political aspects of the program 
be made, but no action was taken by CMU.
Eight students left the program
Thus, because of the predicament 
they were in, eight Rhodesians dropped 
out of the program in protest.
A meeting was held in SUPA to discuss 
the situation. Joshua said that CMU of
ficials did not want to discuss the plight 
and fears of the students at this meeting.
continued on page 19
Discover new Horizons at Clairol,
^ Enter CLAIROLS world of innovating career experiences as part ::; 
of our engineering management staff. Challenging opportunities 
await you in our Operations Management Program.
 Proc%PP tUgSU%%rP * Proj%ct tUgSU%%rP  HUAuPtrSal tUgSU%%rP
 ProAuctSoU & War%houP% eup%rvSPSoU
 ProAuctSoU PlaUUSUg & Mat%rSal CoUtrol
Our representatives will be on campus...
ON JANUARY 16. 17, & 18
at the Placement Office
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
Situation in brief
In an attempt to internationalize it scope, SUPA initiated an ex
change program with Rhodesia, upon the suggestion of Allegheny 
Ludlum, to train competent civil servants, for 28 students.
The program included two semesters of public management 
studies at CMU, and one semester of electives and field work at the 
University of Rhodesia.
Rhodesia, a mineral-rich African country, is presently ntled by a 
white minority government which supports segregationist pol
icies. The country is now engaged in internal strife, in which the 
government and four black rebel parties all strive for political 
control.
Norman Johnson, associate dean of SUPA, said that majority 
ride in Rhodesia implies a need for blacks who are educated and 
trained to handle government affairs.
CMU President Richard Cyert said the program was conceived 
with a professional, not political, orientation. 
The program, which began this September, went along smoothly 
until some of the students received reports from back home that 
Mozambique radio broadcasts monitored in Rhodesia labelled 
students involved in the CMU project as traitors.
Fearful for their lives and the lives of their families in Rhodesia, 
several students tried to dissociate themselves from the program by 
condemning it. In doing so, they hoped to restore themselves in 
the eyes of rebel forces in Rhodesia, some of which operate out of 
Mozambique.
The students made a statement that the invention of this pro~ 
gram is to create a nucleus of pro-Western puppets to stand as a 
stumbling block to the authentic people s revolution. 
Since then, eight students have boycotted classes, though they 
have not officially withdrawn from SUPA. The Zimbabwean Task 
Force, including Pitt students and community residents, have taken
up their cause. They have sponsored rallies on the CMU and Pitt 
campuses, and staged protests in favor of the students.
One Rhodesian student did leave the US, but for personal 
reasons. 
Worth WakSUg Up For . . . STEAK AND EGGS BREAKFAST 
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8th 
MOREWOOD GARDENS/KILTIE CAFE
call th% FooD etpVHCt DHptCTope HoT LHit, X2127, MoUAay 5pm-6pm

---------------------------------------------------

December 6,197?rt1PKlpage 5
Pay or move policy detailed
continued from page 2
and say, that has been the practice.
For instance, the breaking of contract at 
mid-year. It states very clearly in the con
tract that this is for 2 terms. You are 
signing a lease for 2 semesters. From one 
side I am told that this has been the prac
tice ,vand from the other side I am told that 
nobody ever pays any attention to that, so 
why should he read the contract? I am 
reading the contract.
If the administration does not wish to 
hold to that kind of statement in the con
tract, then we should get it out of the con
tract. But since it is a contract, Im holding 
;> students to it. This year I will be very un
popular, but next year students will know 
what they are signing.
Q: What will you do if somebody breaks 
contract? You cannot tell them that they 
cannot move out.
A: They will be held to the contract and 
must pay for it, for two semesters. If they 
move out, they know they are paying for a 
^ room in the dorm whether they live here or 
not.
Students should realize that we have 
130 empty beds in the dorm system now. 
This is about $130,000 in lost income. This 
will only increase costs to next years stu
dents. My holding to the contract is not 
only to balance the budget, but to also 
keep the rates down.
If there are 3 people living in a quad,
 they are going to pay for a triple. Ive 
been told that it isnt our fault she 
moved out, and truly, it is not their
fault. But they have the option to move 
to where they want, or pay for what 
they are in.
This again is part of the contract, and 
we are following it. If the administration 
tells me I am not to follow that, then I 
will say lets get it out of the contract. A 
student should sign a lease knowing it is a 
lease and a binding agreement, and it 
should be followed.
Q: You probably read the letter in the
TARTAN about the roommate who moved 
out of the dorms, forcing the quad to be
come a triple and raising the occupants 
rates. It seems to me Housing should find a 
roommate, or re-evaluate the room to a 
triple. How do you feel about Housings 
responsibilities there?
A: I will tajce blame for the whole 
thing. It was nobodys idea but mine. I 
am the one who initiated it I was told I 
could if I wanted to take the heat and I 
am glad to do it. I was not pressured into 
it by anybody. I cant consider the incident 
criticism [since] the student did not sign 
his name. Again, it stated very clearly in 
the contract that if the room was not oc
cupied by the total number of students 
who were assigned for it, then the other 
students will either be moved, or they will 
pay the difference.
90% of the people contacted because of 
the vacancies had probably asked for single 
or double rooms and were in quads or 
triples. They signed letters to pay the dif
ference, gladly I may add, because it was 
closer to their original request. I am sure 
there are students in quads that wish somePledges from the Kappa Sigma fraternity made equipment and repainted the walls for the Child 
Care Center for their pledge project._________
Q: Do you have any big plans in mind for 
housing? A model of success?
A: I think the biggest plans I have are for 
students to realize that a lease agreement 
is an agreement; and for us, with student 
input, to redesign that lease to not only 
benefit the university, but the student as 
well. If we have to change all our brochures 
to clarify what students are contracting 
for when they come to CMU, then we will 
do it.
Another thing is for the recognition of 
special departments. A design student 
needs more room than an engineer. I am 
not saying that design students should 
have priority. We should recognize their 
needs. We have to be aware of these needs, 
and perhaps in our re-design of lounges, 
try to accomodate the designer and his 
easels or the drama students who have to 
run their scenes. My hope in the future 
is to come up with areas to accomodate 
special needs.
body would move out.
Students will have to realize that after 
the start of school we have no waiting list. 
They have to realize they are making a 
full school year committment. In August 
we are turning people away. Now there are 
130 beds open, and not a single person to 
fill those vacancies.
This means that we can possibly take 
rooms that are quads and possibly should 
not be because of space, and turn them 
into triples, which are more realistic.
Our original plan in the consolidation 
was to open some rooms. We have con
stantly visiting faculty looking for a place 
to stay. If we could free a few rooms, we 
would know that this room is available.
We have also taken away a number of 
lounges in the past years, and if we could 
free a few rooms, we could perhaps make a 
few study rooms. We couldnt make 
lounges because we are talking about 
rooms on a floor.
11
1HS
i1
iHH
!H
HI
IHH
IH
HI,H
We apologize for the unfortunate injustices done to certain 
members and ex-members of the TARTAN staff in the C-Book. 
These were due to the actions of a single individual, and are not 
condoned by the rest of the membership. We hope that the people 
directly affected and the campus community will overlook, in the 
light of our past record of service, any statements which they may 
find offensive. In the future we will be more diligent in our work.
The brothers of 
Kappa Chapter 
Alpha Phi Omega
Hf you hav% qu%PtSoUP, comm%UtP, Pugg%PtSoUP, or crStScSPmP about FooD etpVHCt,

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
The Rhodesian
project
The Rhodesian project."
What those words mean depends on who you ask.
The 19 Rhodesians out of the 25 in SUPAs specially-designed public management program who condemn the pro
ject claim they are being trained as pro-Westernpuppets, 
to be used to give the United States an economic and so
cial edge in their country when the Rhodesian government 
changes over to majority (black) rule-a change which many 
people believe will occur sometime in the future.
But Dean Otto Davis of SUPA claims that the public 
management program is non-political. President Cyert 
claims that the program was conceived as a professional 
program and the 25 Rhodesians were chosen strictly on 
the basis of academic quality. 
Who to believe?
The Rhodesian students are not complaining about their 
curriculum; in fact, they only expressed dissatisfaction after 
learning that radio reports from Mozambique, which is con
trolled by black rebels against Ian Smiths white regime, 
labeled them as traitors to the black liberation forces.
The Rhodesians believe that the radio reports were in
spired by CMUs fundraising efforts made after the students 
arrived at CMU, during which CMU billed the program as 
one whereby the students would gain training to occupy 
. top government positions in Rhodesia. 
And at the Condemn the Rhodesian Project meeting 
on Thursday, Rhodesian student Joshua Gwitira said that 
upon returning home, participants in the program would be 
sent to the gallows by the black masses unless Ian Smith 
imprisoned them first.
But Smiths regime knew of and approved the program, 
as did three of the four rebelling factions in the country 
(the fourth, the group based in Mozambique, could not be 
reached); so it appears that any disapproval of the program 
came about after all arrangements had been made and ap
proved.
If CMU did tell potential contributors of the remaining 
$200,000 needed for thP'programthat the program has a 
political basis, then the Rhodesians have a legitimate com
plaint.
An interesting point amid the claims and counter-claims 
is that the Rhodesian students, who are in the best position 
to say whether the program is political because they are 
taking the courses, admit that the courses themselves are 
not objectionable. The problem seems to arise over the 
origin of the money for the program. And this is the crux 
of the matter.
In America, money is mainly in the hands of big busi
ness. For whatever reasons, Allegheny Ludlum has put up a 
large sum for the program. It would be naive to think that 
Allegheny Ludlum, who imports much of its chrome from 
Rhodesia, is doing this out of altruism: no doubt they 
hope to get some financial benefits from their action.
It would be equally naive to think that the Rhodesian 
leaders who approved the program believed the money 
would come entirely from disinterested sources; the PTA 
and Ralph Naders consumer groups simply do not have 
$500,000 to contribute.
Self-interest is displayed by both sides. Ian Smith and 
three rebel parties were willing to overlook ideological 
differences in order to give 25 students an excellent educa
tion at an excellent school. You can be sure that they have 
their own reasons for doing so.
The Rhodesians solution, that CMU should help them 
transfer and then pay their tuition and all living costs, is 
absurd. The dissatisfied students best course of action 
would be to disentangle themselves from the Zimbabwean 
Task Force, whose frantic arm-waving and convoluted 
rhetoric is only hurting their cause; and sit down with their 
lawyer and CMU officials to discuss the whole situation 
rationally.
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
When is a lecture 
not a lecture?
Editor:
I remember once, about five 
years ago, a famous author came 
to town to lecture for the Poetry 
Forum in the Carnegie museum. 
He started, out by telling the 
packed crowd that he hated Penn
sylvania, had just gotten a traffic 
ticket and said he was going to 
lecture for exactly the pre-agreed 
time, take the money and run. 
He set an alarm in his watch, 
talked about his watch for a 
while, and then lectured for 
the pre-agreed timeevery once 
in a while flipping the blank 
pages of a notebook on the lec
tern. When the alarm in his watch 
went off, he stopped, mid-sen
tence, and walked off stage. I 
still remember wondering why 
some people applauded.
On reflection, the thing that 
bothers me most about that time 
was the fact that his lecture was 
pretty good. With any prepara
tion at all, he would have been 
spellbinding. Why choose to be 
not spellbinding?
In the same kind of confusion, 
I wonder about Harlan Ellisons 
lectures. They were, particularly 
the evening lecture, electric and 
dramatic. He shot words out; he 
was jarring and funny and quick. 
Some of his stories were even 
partially acted out. It was almost 
a one-character play. He gripped 
a steering wheel, rode horseback, 
affected different voices, strutted, 
vaulted a fence, got shot at, gave
different lectures...
On my way to my car, I 
thought about how much theatre 
I had just seen. Then I thought of 
how much everyone had enjoyed 
it. But I had not gone to see an 
actor; I had gone to hear a writer, 
a damn good writer. I wanted 
inspirations, motivations in detail, 
philosophy of characters, central 
ideas of different stories juxta
posed. I had gotten a Life in Pan
tomime.
Thats what bothers me;he had 
chosen a good show rather than a 
good lecture.
Rich McCague
CMU careless 
with bomb scares
Editor:
Were afraid.
Were afraid because weve been 
lucky...so far.
But what happens when our 
luck runs out and threats become 
a grim reality? In this newspaper, 
youll find the facts about the 
recent bomb threats. You might 
read them, believe them, and live 
in a lucky world. But Luck is 
not consistent.
We are dissatisfied because our 
university is depending on this 
luck for our well-being. If, in fact, 
there ever is a real bomb, either 
we will never hear about it or 
someone will get hurtand our 
luck will have run out.
Can we rely on the university 
to provide us with an accurate 
account of the state of our af
fairs, especially those in which 
our lives are placed in jeopardy? 
We are not confident that, should 
an actual crisis occur, it would 
be handled in a rational manner.
These feelings were brought to 
mind by the seemingly casual
TARTAN
Volume 78December 6,1977Number 13
Editor-in-CM"* 
Managing Editor: 
Business Mar Decmb 
rews E>> or 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Photography Editor
She'-y Siege!
Bre<.'id R rl 
Ellen J. Silverman 
Saui ua^hnei 
Casey Childs 
Jeffrey Zaslow 
V.R.V. Ramanan
Assistant News Editor: Linda Deak
Production staff: Gary Walter, Naomi Kornhauser
Photography staff' Brian Batchelder, Mike Bergman, Skip Brazelton, John Fong, C>reg
Lebowitz, George Lecomte, Ken Ream, Steve Salagaller, Mark Segal
Copyright 1977 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices. Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2000 ext. 2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

/
December 6,1977-TARTAN-page 7
more Letters
way in which extremely serious 
and potentially dangerous situa
tions, such as the bomb scares 
of 12/1, were handled.
Why were evacuated students 
allowed to remain so close to 
the building?
Why were people allowed to 
re-enter the basement during the 
search?
Who made the procedure deci
sions?
And were the decisions made 
that night or earlier that after
noon? Without reasonable answers 
to these questions well just have 
to remain dependent on our luck. 
Same as beforeNothing changes.
Ken Hirschmuge 
Bill Goold 
Roni Kelly
AH letters to the Editor must be 
signed. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The TARTAN does 
not print anonymous letters.
CMU MENC asks, 'Why end Music Ed?'
Editor:
The announcement by Mr. Robert Page to discontinue the Music 
Education option has greatly distressed the members of the student 
chapter of MENC at Carnegie-Mellon. This group feels that it is a 
very unwise decision that is destined to do irreparable damage to the 
music at, and in the community surrounding, Carnegie-Mellon.
In recent years, music education in general has been in the pro
cess of being slowly phased out of the public school systems. We 
feel that part of the reason for this is the mediocre quality of the 
music teachers that are being mass-produced by various univer
sities and state colleges. Too often, these teachers are not skilled 
musicians, nor are they well-trained as music educators. In con
trast, to quote from the current Carnegie-Mellon University Under
graduate Catalog, our unique five-year program exemplifies the 
philosophy of the Department of Music toward the musician-teacher: the teacher must be a qualified performer as well as an inspiring 
teacher.
The greatest testimony to the success of these musician-teachers is that almost 100% of CMU Music Education graduates were 
able to get fine jobs. These alumni are involved in some of the best 
music programs across the country. Considering the good reputa
tion of the Music Education program, and the percentage of gradu
ates able to find employment, we feel that the decision to eliminate 
the program is unrealistic. Is it not President Cyerts policy to 
strengthen the programs which have proved to be successful, while 
eliminating the programs that do not produce any student interest 
and/or are too costly?
The ramifications of depriving the public of quality educators are 
indeed depressing. The youth of today will be deprived of excellent 
music programs, and, if the present trends continue, will not receive 
any exposure to music of any kind. This situation could very well 
lead to a steady de-emphasis of legitimate musical experiences m the 
American culture. There will also not be any informed or interested 
audiences. One cannot have any kind of a performance without an 
audience. Performance and education must interact with each other. 
The elimination of a program which produces teachers that promote 
interest in music will have a detrimental effect on our society. It 
could very well be harmful to other music programs as well. A 
responsible position for any university to take would be to continue 
the program, which in turn, could prevent the deterioration of all 
kinds of education in todays schools.
In conclusion, MENC is asking for special consideration of our 
Music Education program. It is not like any other education pro
gram, and is unique in comparison to other music education options 
across the country. This program has been proven worthwhile in the 
past, has always maintained high standards, and has been one of the 
strong aspects of the music department in general. MENC would 
like to see the administration investigate this phase-out plan tho
roughly, and with the help of student and faculty input. We are con
cerned, and we hope the administration is concerned also.
THE MUSIC EDUCATORS NATIONAL CONFERENCE
STUDENT CHAPTER NO. 6 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITYANNOUNCEMENTS
The Point Park College Laboratory School, Social Science SeminarDr. Tom Ferguknown for individualized student atten
tion, is now accepting applications. The 
downtown Pittsburgh school is open to 
children between the ages of three and 
eight.
Operating under the direction of Point 
Park College's Education Department, the 
laboratory school offers programs on the 
nursery, kindergarten and primary levels.
The laboratory school provides oppor
tunities for a child to develop a wealth 
of direct experiences. Educational field 
trips in the college's urban environment 
enable the child to relate to the outside 
world.
The nursery school meets Monday 
through Thursday, 9 AM to noon or 1 PM 
to 4 PM. The kindergarten sessions are 
Monday through Friday, 9 AM to noon 
or 1 to 4 PM while the primary school 
hours are Monday through Friday, 9 AM 
to 3 PM.
A special, addition to the regular 
schedule is also offered by the laboratory 
school. The extended day program, a
new-all day feature for children three to 
five, accomodates the needs of working 
parents.
Parents interested in either program 
should contact the Department of Edu
cation, Point Park College, Wood Street, 
Pittsburgh, 15222 or call 391-4100. Ext. 
225.
The Forbes Street Gallery presents the
work of Kathleen Butler (drawings), Steven 
Kibert (paintings), and Andrew Silverstein 
(prints) in a show opening Tuesday night, 
Dec. 6. The opening will be from 7 to 
9:30 PM. All are invited to attend.
The Third Annual Christmas Tree Decor
ating Contest will be held Friday, Dec. 9, 
in the Skibo Lounge. Any student organi
zation, dormitory, fraternity or sorority 
may enter the contest. All trees must be 
set up after 6 00 PM Thursday, Dec. 8. 
Judging will take place at 12:30 PM Friday. 
A space may be reserved by contacting 
MaryAnn Patross, Student Activities, 103 
Skibo, ext. 2107.
A.B. Coffeehouse committee presents
Spiritwood and Nat Rich on Saturday, 
Dec. 10 at 9:30 PM in the Wherrett Room 
Nat Rich will perform mime and Spiritwood will entertain with folk music. 
Admission is free and as always, free coffee 
and tea will be served.
son, U. of Rochester, will discuss ''Party 
conflict in an Industrial Structure." Friday, 
Dec. 9, 3:00 PM, Baker Hall 246A. 
Man and Ideas SeriesNobel Prize winner 
Dr. Gerald Edelman will discuss biological 
expression of individuality. The event will 
take place in the Music Hall of Carnegie 
Institute, at 8:30 PM, Dec. 7. Free tickets 
are available at the Skibo Information 
Desk.
The audition team from Opryland U.S.A.
will begin its talent search of 27 cities 
in December to find the entertainers, 
musicians and technicians to cast the 13 
live musical productions scheduled for the 
musical entertainment theme park next 
season.
Auditions will be held in Pittsburgh on 
Wednesday, December 7, from 12 noon to 
5 PM at the Marriott Inn, 101 Marriott 
Drive. Auditions will be in the BirchPoplar Room.
"Edison's Creativity: Thomas Edison
as Inventer and Entrepreneur" is the title 
of a lecture to be given Friday Dec. 9, in 
Hammerschlag, rm. 10 by Prof. Thomas 
Hughes. Professor Hughes is a professor of 
the History of Technology.
The Morewood Gardens Christmas PartyHosted by the Morewood Resident Assis
tants will be held at 9:00 PM, on Saturday. 
Dec. 10 in the Morewood Gaidens Recrea 
tion Room. Christmas GoodiesCaroingChristmas Cheer
Season SwingDonner Hall Dance will be
held in the Donner Hall Lounge at 9:00 PM 
on Sat. Dec. 10. Christmas Cheer and lots 
of DANCING!!!!!! We also ask that every
one coming to this affair bring a toy or 
some article of clothing for the needy. A 
barrel will be provided so that others less 
fortunate than ourselves may enjoy a bit 
of the season spirit.
Open to all CMU students-ONLV.
Give a toy, article of clothing or any canned-food item to the poor. Effective Dec. 
there will be a barrel located in the Office 
of Residence Life located in Donner Hall 
and Morewood Gaidens to collect items 
for the needy and less fortunate. The barrel 
will be available through Dec. 23. These 
articles will be given to the United States 
Marine Corps to be given out to worthy 
recipients. PLEASE GIVE WHATEVER 
YOU CAN!!!!!!!!!'
A hairshow open to all students on the care
of your skin and hair will be held in Don
ner Hall Lounge at 8:00 PM. The Puccini 
Hair cutters will also offer fifteen free 
haircuts. Anyone interested in participating 
in the haircutting demonstration, contact 
the Office of Residence Life in Donner 
Hall, 578-4000, no later than Dec. 6.
Coffee House for a free Chilethe Pitts
burgh Chile Solidarity Committee will have 
a coffee house on Saturday, Dec. 10 at 8 
PM, at the Paul Younger Community Cen
ter, at Ward St. and Blvd. of the Allies. 
Musicians will include Rochelle Thompson 
and Las Voces del Pueblo. Admission 
$2.00.
Diversion Creations is pleased to announce
a concert featuring Mick Martin, on of the 
best traditional acoustic guitarists. Per
forming with Mick Martin will be Charles 
Chaplin of the Old Time Fiddlers' Associ
ation of Western Pennsylvania. The con
cert will begin at 9:00 PM Saturday Dec. 
10, 1977 at the Lion Walk, 420 North 
Craig Street, Oakland, Admission is $2.00 
at the door. For more information, please 
call the Lion Walk at 683-3222 or Diver
sion Creations at 661-1485. Thank you. 
Whether your special skills are in crafts, 
karate or computer programming, the Duquesne University Union wants you to 
share them with others. The Duquesne 
Union is seeking instructors for its PS Mini
course program. The program, now in its 
third year, offers a wide variety of inform
ation and inexpensive, non-credit courses.
The minicourses run for eight consecu
tive weeks, although the time period is 
flexible depending on the subject matter. 
Instructors' fees and time of class are open 
for discussion. Individuals interested in be
coming instructors should contact Char
lotte Cunningham or Betsy Brunetti at 
434-6638 before Dec. 1. Registration for 
the PS minicourses will run from Jan. 19 
through 26. Courses begin the week of 
Feb. 6.
PSI, Graduate School of Professional
Psychology. Applications are currently 
being accepted for our PhD program in 
Clinical-Counseling Psychology Existential-humanistic emphasis. State approved 
for professional license. Write for free 
brochure; current cataloque $1.00. Dr. 
George Muench, director. Dr. Peter Koestenbaum, dean. PSI College Avenue, Palo 
Alto, California 94306.
SUICIDE PREVENTION AND CRISIS IN
TERVENTION12:30 featured speaker: 
Diane Syre, Ph. D., Director, Crisis Inter
vention Unit, and President, Council on 
Suicide Prevention, Canada. 1:45work
shop covering: Crisis Intervention Service 
in the Community, Crisis Intervention Over 
the Telephone, Hospital-based Suicide 
Treatment, and Your Agency and Crisis 
Service: Administrative Issues. Workshop 
leader will be Raymond Webb, Jr., ACSW, 
Executive Director. 3:00Round Table 
and Open Discussion: Dr. Syre.
Registration. 12:00 no->n. Walk-ins will 
be accepted. Location: Wilkinsburg Holi
day Inn, 915 Brinton Road, Parkway 
East.
Special tours of the inaugural Pittsburgh
International Series, honoring Pierre Alechinsky, will be conducted at 2:30 PM 
daily, Tuesday through Friday in the 
Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute. On 
Saturday and Sunday the tours will be 
given at 3:00 PM.
The tours, conducted by Museum of 
Art docents, will continue through Jan. 8, 
I978 when the exhibition closes.
The Division of Adult Education, Carne
gie Institute begins its winter program on 
Jan. 9. 1978 with 26 courses designed for 
your artistic talents. Registration will 
take place Jan. 4 through Jan. 7 from 9:00 
AM to 4:30 PM and evenings 6.00 PM 
to 8:30 PM (no evening registration Jan. 7)
Beginners and advanced students alike 
can develop their talents in such classes 
as: art appreciation, sculpture, portrait
and figure drawing, and painting for begin
ners, intermediate and advanced artists. 
Craft enthusiasts will find courses in cer
amics, needlepoint, weaving, macram, 
and calligraphy. For those who enjoy 
physical activities, ballet, modern dance 
and hatha yoga will be offered.
For brochures and additional informa
tion call 622-3488 or 622-3291.
A hairshow of the latest international hair
styles and care will be held Thursday Dec.
8, in the Morewood Gardens Piano Room 
at 7:30. Glen by International Hair Design, 
a newcomer to the Pittsburgh area, has 
designed hairstyles for movies such as, 
The Other Side of Midnight They will 
offer free haircuts to students in atten 
dance at the show. Prerequisite for being 
selected is to have washed your hair prior 
to the show.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNCX INCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS
clubs
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
SCHOOL BUS SAFETY PRESENTATION
A project team composed of Engineering 
and Public Policy undergraduates, and 
School of Urban and Public Affairs Mas
ter's students will conduct the third and 
final presentation with respect to School 
Bus Safety. Their objective was to eval
uate the school bus transport system and 
explore future options. Final results will 
be presented Tuesday 13, at 3.30 PM in 
Scaife Auditorium. Faculty advisors are: 
Shirley Angrist, Granger Morgan, Henry 
Piehler, and Alvin Weinstein. A review 
board of state, local, and other pupil trans
portation specialists will critique the pre
sentation. Open to the public. For further 
information, call Barbara Lydon ext. 2670. 
College-sponsored entertainment groups of 
no more than eight performers are being 
sought by USO SHOWS to tour isolated 
military installations overseas. Expensepaid tours ranging in length from four to 
six weeks are scheduled to five areas: 
Alaska, the Orient, Europe, Mediterranean, 
and the Caribbean.
A live audition and completion of a 
formal application are required of groups 
desiring to be considered for the limited 
number of tours available each year.
A brochure entitled "Guidelines for 
Audition and Tour Application'' has been 
published by the USO SHOWS Campus 
Music Committee (CMC). The guidelines 
provide specific information regarding 
qualifications and restrictions, types of 
shows desired, production suggestions, de
tails of touring and a step-by-step outline 
on how to apply. Music Departments or 
Student Production Departments may ob
tain a free copy of the CMC Guidelines by 
writing USO SHOWS, 1146 19th Street, 
N.W., Washington, D C. 20036.
Theatre Departments interested in pre
paring a book musical or comedy for 
audition (maximum cast of 10 including 
manager) may also write to USO SHOWS 
for guidelines prepared by the American 
Theatre Association (ATA) Overseas Tour
ing Committee.
There is an opening on the Student Senate
from the College of Fine Arts. Any stu
dent from the college who is interested in 
the position must submit a petition to the 
Senate with at least 25 signatures of stu
dents from Fine Arts. For further informa
tion call the Student Senate Office (201 
Skibo) 578-2115, David G. Roussos 521 - 
3032, or Carl Fetteroll 682-9455
RENT-A-TECHM Current jobs available at
the CMU Student Employment Service, 
located at Skibo, Room 58:
Music students interested and qualified in 
classical and popular music to play in a 
cocktail bar.
Parking lot attendant needed three days 
per week (Monday, Wednesday, Friday) 
from 8:30 AM to 2:30 PM. Salary starts 
at $2.50/hour.
Architecture student needed to work parttime to read and interpret blue prints. 
Waiter or waitress needed to work at local 
bar from 7:00 PM to 2:00 AM. Salary and 
days are negotiable.
Drivers needed for local delivery service. 
Hours and days are flexible. Salary starts 
at $3.00/hour.
Babysitters needed for Tuesdays and 
Thursdays during the day for local resi
dent.
Free living quarters in exchange for baby
sitting and household chores.
Part-time work in breeding laboratories. 
Chores include feeding and caring for al
bino rats. Hours are flexible.
Evening shift at negotiable wages.
Someone with knowledge of computers 
needed to keypunch about 750 to 1500 
cards.
Warehouse laborer needed at large corpor
ation with promise of promotion!
Shadyside restaurant needs dishwashers! 
$2.75/hour + share in tips.
Stouffer's of Oakland needs one full-time 
worker or two part-time workers at $2.75/ 
hour.
Someone with a car needed to provide 
transportation for elderly couple weekday 
mornings.
CMU employee needs TV repaired soon! 
Babysitting job for Thurs. and Tues. 9:30 
to 5:00, and also Saturday evenings. 
Waitresses needed at Squirrel Hill Cafe! 
Weekly distributors and subscription sellers 
needed for local newspaper.
Full-time babysitter needed for a Mt. Wash
ington mother.
Experienced salesperson wanted for down
town jewelry store. Flexible hours. 
French-speaking babysitter needed for bi
lingual 5-year-old boy.
Sail a Semester aboard A UT Regina
Mam SBasmMr'
Ship aboard the square-rna;ed harguennne r/v 
Kegmd Muns fur a two-month scientific and educa
tional expedition to study whales and open ocean 
ecology This 144' sailing vessel provides a rare 
opportunity for students (at least 18 years oU) interested in marine ecology as well as learning navigation and other nautical skills. Credits are given 
through the Harvard University Extension program 
Expeditions leave in December 1977. and in Fehurary 
and April 1978. For details write:
The Ocean Research and Education Society Inc 
51 Commercial Wharf #6X, Boston, MA 02110 
(617) 52M455
A Book is a Loving Gift
INTRODUCING THE RANDOM HOUSEENCYCLOPEDIA.
 The first one-volume encyclopedia 
designed for the entire family, with 
thousands ' of brilliant color 
illustrations.
 The first encyclopedia in which pic
tures are truly integrated with text to 
convey information more clearly than 
ever before. Of more than 113,800 
pictures, over 11,000 are in full color. 
Its 2,856 pages also include an 80- 
page Atlas, 48-page Time Chart, 
25,000 in-depth entries, all organized 
to be easily used.
The most exciting encyclopedia ever 
published. A unique resource for 
p] g n learning and a unique pleasure to
read.$69.95ii iiu bockstore*
For more information about these and 
other jobs, come on down to our office
during our office hours or call us at..........
682-5482. Get some extra pocket money 
or just occupy some of your spare time. 
OFFICE HOURS: Monday thru Friday 
(10:30-2:30; 6:00-9:00) Saturdays (1:00- 
4:00)._______________________________
scholarshipsawardsprizes
The CMU Baseball Organization will have a
meeting Thursday, Dec. 8, 1977, at 9:30 
PM in Room 11 of Skibo. All those inter
ested in participating this spring are urged 
to attend this meeting.
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship will have 
a worship service at 7:30 in Skibo rm. 39. 
All who would like to come are welcome. 
The Tech Flying Club will meet Dec. 14 
at 7:30 PM in Skibo rm. 45. Russell Okrent will present a slide exhibition of 
vintage aircraft. All members of the CMU 
community with an interest in aviation are 
invited to attend.
The local chapter of the American Produc
tion and Inventory Control Society 
(APICS) has established an annual $500 
scholarship at Community College of 
Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, in mem
ory of late David H. Allshouse, a 40-year 
veteran with the Pittsburgh-based Westinghouse Air Brake Company (WABCO), and 
local APICS executive vice president.
National APICS officers will judge 
written essayssubmitted by industrial man
agement students to determine which stu
dents receive $250 scholarship awards. One 
scholarship will be awarded for the fall 
semester, a second scholarship will be awarded for the spring semester. Douglas 
lekert, a second-year industrial manage
ment student from Aspinwall, was re
cently presented with the first $250 award 
for the fall '77 semester.
There's no longer any need to travel to the 
far corners of the world in search of unique 
minerals and stones. Just come to Duquesne University's Mineral and Gemstone Fair, 
Dec. 5-9 and select from thousands of
jewelry items on display.
The fair, open to the public and free of
charge, will be held from 10 AM to 9 PM in 
the Union Ballroom. For more information 
contact the Union Program Board at 434- 
6638.
classified
WantedFemale Grad student to share
large 2 BR Squirrel Hill Apartment with 
another female. Partially furnished. 
$107.00/month plus electricity. Call Beth, 
422-9950.
Always love your cryptic etchings. Jack
Original Wedding Bands. Why buy mass
produced rings? Have your own unique
design created. 243-5458
Florian's Hairstyling Salon of Vienna
Super haircutting for girls and guys. 
15% Discount for college students. 1831 
Murray Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217. Call: 
521-9900.
Wanted: Waiters and Waitresses for Antonino's. 412 South Craig St. Call: 681J7256 
OBOE Selmer Signet Professional used 8 
months. $500or best offer. 264-9087 
FORTRAN hacker available to tutor,
program, or debug. Negotiable rates. Call 
Gary 441-6017.
The CMU Law Club will meet Wed., Dec. 7
at 7 PM in Skibo rm. 11. Anyone with an 
interest in law is welcome to attend. 
"Goodbye Pete, Ed, and Dick. Hello, in
June. Signed T.K."
A Book is o loving gift.
% )
A NEW GIFT BOOK FROM ABRAMS
For more than 20 years, the noted Dutch ar
tist Rien Poortvliet and a physician friend, Wil 
Huygen, have studied the life and habits of the 
Gnomea creature previously known only in 
song and legend. Poortvliets delightful realistic 
paintings and sketches (firsthand) and Huygen s 
enlightened scientific observations present the 
Gnomeas distinguished from the Elf, Goblin, 
Troll, Kobold, and Fairyin every intimate detail 
of life, from physiology to courtship habits. Did 
you know that Gnomes rub noses in both 
greeting and farewell? Or that a Gnome is seven 
times as strong as a human? Or that Gnome 
couples always have twin children?
These and hundreds of other facts, as well as 
important stories from their ancient history (the 
Ghome who knew Rembrandt reveals some 
fascinating behind-the-scenes gossip), add up to 
a book full of lore, historyand fun.
A delight to the eye and full of verbal fun, 
Gnomes will be a treat for the whole family: as a 
book to show to little ones, as a spoof of scien
tific studies for the sophisticate, and as a charm
ing piece of made-up reality for any reader. 
212 pages in full color with maps, diagrams, and 
four-color end papers, 8'/* x 11-7/8".
$17.50
Back in Stock in time for Christmasl
emu focokstcre*

---------------------------------------------------

Teri Hope appeared in PLAYBOY magazine 
in September 1958. Most of today's students 
were still diapered and without knowledge of 
their hormones that month. Some of us weren't 
even born. But now, through the magic of 
FOLIO, the students of today (yesterday's 
infants) can see the beauty and mystery of 
Teri Hope as she appeared when she was a 
Carnegie Tech sophomore.
I first learned ol Ten's accomplishment when 
some friends of mine told me that they had 
spoken to an alumni of the class of 1959 during 
Homecoming. His name was Dave Kaufman, and 
he told them about a co-ed classmate of his
who posed for PLAYBOY. My friends recom
mended that I look into the story for a possible 
FOLIO feature spread, and I obliged. The first 
place to start looking for the magazine was 
naturally the library.
The librarian at Hunt directed me to the 
Carnegie Library because "they have almost 
everything and we have almost nothing." At 
Carnegie Library, the librarian obnoxiously 
asked me why I wanted PLAYBOY. Instead 
of telling her that it was none of her business, 
I told her;
My mother was a centerfold in 1958, and 
I want to see what she looked like in her prime."
"Ummmm." She said, peering at me as if I
was Hugh Hefner's illegitimate son.
She then looked in the Periodical Guide for 
the Pittsburgh Area (something the librarian at 
Hunt could have done) and saw that Carnegie 
Library has no collection of PLAYBOY.
"I figured as much." She muttered, insinu
ating that what is "free to the people" shouldn't 
include sex.
Next stop was the University of Pittsburgh, 
where half of the students are oversexed, and the 
rest of them are female. I was sure that Hillman 
Library would have my PLAYBOY.
CONTINUED INSIDE

---------------------------------------------------

page 10TARTANDecember6,1977
PAaylwj VtayMat%-e%plmb%U H958
Tetti Hope
CONTINUED FROM FOLIO COVER
"Special collections has all the PLAYBOYs. 
Third floor." I was told by a clerk on the ground 
floor who seemed like he gave those directions 
frequently. It didn't surprise me. The Pitt News 
isn't enough to satisfy an entire campus. They 
need some extracurricular reading.
At the Special Collections room, I registered 
my name and gave the real reason why I wanted 
to read PLAYBOY.
The librarian disappeared into a back room and 
returned with a box labeled 1958. I opened the 
box, attacked the magazines, and paged through 
all the copies in search of my CMU girl. (At that 
time, I didn't even know her name or what month 
she appeared)
I begain looking through the magazines. The 
girls were pretty in the way our mothers were 
pretty back then. At least for me, part of the 
sex appeal was in the fact that they weren't 
completely naked. It could be that I like to be 
teased, but I doubt it. These girls were beautiful. 
They looked like Janet Leigh, or Jane Russell, 
or Natalie Wood, or Annette Funicello might 
have looked half undressed. They appeared to be 
wholesome. Every one of them looked to me like 
they could be a girl next door, or a girl up the 
street, or at least a girl from somewhere. They 
looked real and cute and the type of girls that 
you wouldn't mind bringing to meet your par
ents; after they got dressed, of course.
TARTAN FOLIO
DECEMBER 6, 1977/ SPECIAL ISSUE : TERI HOPE
EDITOR JEFFREY ZASLOW 
ASSISTANT EDITOR KAREN ANN YAKSICH 
ART DIRECTOR SCOTT POLLACK 
MANAGERIAL ASSISTANT MORY BRENNER 
LAYOUT ASSISTANT KAREN JOY RAVITS
ALL SPECIAL PHOTOGRAPHY by V.R.V. RAMANAN
PLA YMA TE PROSPECT
The Zeta Chapter of Beta Sigma Rho Frater
nity recently held its annual formal here at 
Carnegie Tech and this year we used PLAYBOY 
as our theme. The fraternity house was elabor
ately decorated with rabbit posters, covers car
toons, and Playmates from PLAYBOY, and over 
80 couples including faculty members, attended. 
The brothers submitted the names of their dates 
for our Beta Sigma Rno Playmate Contest and the 
winner was cute Carnegie sophomore Teri Hope. 
'Teri is a nineteen-year-old, blue-eyed blonde  
a petite 5' 2" tall, measuring 36-22-35 in the 
vital statistics department. Is there <*ny poss
ibility you might be interested in Teri as a real 
Playmate of the Month in PLA YBOY?
Stan Harris 
Beta Sigma Rho 
Carnegie Institute of Tech.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Judging from the photograph you enclosed, 
there is more than a possibility, Stan. Teri can 
expect a call from our Carnegie Tech College 
Rep.
REPRINTED FROM PLAYBOY/JULY 1958'
The magazine itself was thin (80 -90 pages 
compared with 250 -350 today). There were only 
a few girls featured in each issue, and some of 
them were completely dressed throughout the 
entire photo spread. There was no PLAYBOY 
interview. There was no advisor column; no 
vibrator ads in the back. There weren't even any 
satin sheet ads. Even the PLAYBOY After 
Hours column could be Prime Time by today's 
standards. The cartoons were cleaner, but the 
style was the same and the humor was just as 
funny. The party jokes weren't crude and the 
covers weren't revealing. And listed as EditorPublisher was the same man who has spanned 
a couple of sex-centered generations, Mr. Hugh 
Hefner.
Although I was getting into the nostalgia of 
my research, I was getting worried because there 
was no sign of the Carnegie-girl. I had checked all 
the magazines Hillman had for 1958, and there 
was no sign of a girl from CMU. I decided to 
page through one more time before I gave up.
Finally, on my second scanning, in July 1958,
I got my first lead. The letter (see box, this page) 
and PLAYBOY'S reply, showed that there was 
some element of truth to the story. But there 
was no hint as to the month she appeared or if, 
in fact, she ever was invited to pose.
I soon discovered that Pitt was missing 
PLAYBOY for the month of September, and I 
decided that September had to be the month 
that Teri appeared. I complained to the librarian 
that September was missing, and she said to me;
"Aren't there enough girls for you in the rest 
of those magazines?"
I explained that my centerfold girl might be 
in September, and she again evaporated into the 
back room. When she came back, she was lugging 
another box.
"This is 1959." She told me. "Sometimes 
years get mixed up in the wrong boxes. Your 
month might be in here."
I started paging through the 1959 issues. In 
January, PLAYBOY'S Playmate review showed a 
picture of Miss September 1958 that assured me 
that I was on the right track. It was Teri Hope
The caption on this photo read," Named fraternity 
Playmate at Carnegie Tech's PLAYBOY formal, Teri 
Hope is also our September gatefold girl." 
sitting at a desk with a Carnegie Tech banner 
in the background. I was thrilled to learn that 
she had been a centerfold.
The only problem was that the September issue 
was nowhere to be found, and if I was going to 
put it in FOLIO, I'd have to have the pictures, 
and I'd have to have the magazine.
The librarian at Pitt looked in a huge book 
that must have been labeled "Libraries of the 
World" and told me that there isn't a library 
within 100 miles that holds PLAYBOYs back 
that far. I wrote a letter to PLAYBOY and re
ceived an answer that said; "sorry but 19 years 
ago is a long time." I was visiting a friend at 
Penn State, and I checked the library there. 
They used to have PLAYBOY, but they got rid 
of them a few years back. I tried looking at 
some used book stores in State College, PA., but 
none of them had PLAYBOYs before 1960.
I tried calling every used book dealer in 
Pittsburgh. None of them could help me, but a 
few of them took my phone number and name 
and told me that if the issue turned up, they'd 
contact me.
Finally, in Mid-November, I got a call from a 
used book and magazine dealer downtown.
"Are you the guy looking for the PLAYBOY 
from September, 1958?" I was asked.
"Yes, I am. Do you have it?" I was getting 
excited.
He said, "I have it. But it's an old issue.
at a playboy parly
Teri Hope appeared on the cover of PLAYBOY 
in September 1958. This issue is available during office 
hours in the TARTAN office. Stop by and take a look.SAUCY SOPHOMORE

---------------------------------------------------

December 6,1977-TARTAN-page 11
Good condition. It won't be too cheap."
Then I foolishly said, Oh. That's ok. I'll 
pay anything."
Then he smartly answered, Good. Then that'll 
be fifteen dollars."
And I obviously had to say, "I'll have to think 
about it and get back to you."
"^enT^n^^Texr^te^wa^^^^i^u^ with the 
TARTAN editor about the worthiness of such 
a purchase. Since I'd be spending TARTAN 
) noney, she was of the opinion that I should get 
my jollies at my own expense. After I assured 
her that my motives were purely FOLIOistic, 
she agreed to let me buy the PLAYBOY.
I took a 61C downtown,and handed over 
the fifteen dollars. I felt bad about paying 15 
bucks for a magazine that once cost 50 cents, 
but the dealer tried to make me feel better. 
^ If this were the first issue, from 1953, I'd 
be charging you five hundred dollars. He said, 
and smiled, trying to impress me with his bargain.
And if you were in the desert begging for 
water, I'd charge you fifteen bucks a glass. " I 
said, and left.
Once out in the street, I looked at the 
PLAYBOY. Teri was on the cover. She looked 
sweet. Inside, there were five pictures of her, 
including the centerfold, and she was pretty and 
sexy and she was described as A student of 
,Drama at Carnegie Tech." She was dressed in 
every picture except the centerfold, and in the 
centerfold, her appearance wasn't too risque. 
Even her nipples were airbrushed out. There 
wasn't much of a story with the photo spread, 
(see box, this page) so I decided that it was my 
duty to learn all the events that culminated in
PLAYBOY FORMAL PARTIES have become 
an Institution at a number of institutions of 
higher learning across the country. This past 
year, over 25,000 students and faculty members 
of both genders attended such shimmering shin
digs at Cornell, UCLA, Wisconsin, the U of 
Florida  from coast to coast, and includ
ing the exclusive University Club in Chicago. At 
these poshfests, PLAYBOY is the theme and 
keynote, the PLAYBOY rabbit is the mascot, 
PLAYBOY covers and cartoons serve as decor
ations, and  not infrequently  the highlight 
of the evening is the selection of a university 
or fraternity Playmate.
Not long ago, at Carnegie Tech, the Zeta 
Chapter of Beta Sigma Rho threw a PLAYBOY 
formal. From the assembled fraters' prettiest 
dates, a party Playmate was chosen: she was
Carnegie sophomore Natalie (Teri to her friends) 
Hope. Teri is 19 and a dedicated student of 
dramatics. Her blue eyes and blonde hair, in 
conjunction with the even 100 pounds distributed 
delightfully up and down her petite 5'2" frame, 
prompted one of the Tech men to submit a 
snapshot of her to PLA YBOY, along with a letter 
that asked, "Is there any possibility you might 
be interested in Teri as a real Playmate of the 
Month?" The snapshot and letter appeared in 
our July 1958 issue, followed by our reply, in 
which we went overboard and admitted there 
was "more than a possibility." The possibility 
has become refreshing reality, as you will see 
when you open the gatefold of this September 
PLA YBOY.
REPRINTED FROM PLAYROV/ SEPTEMBER 1958
Teri's centerfolding. I took the next bus home, 
and went straight to the Alumni Office.
They were helpful there in Warner Hall, but 
their information wasn't too up to date. After 
they checked their files I was told;
We haven't heard from her since 1967. She 
never graduated from here. We don't know why 
she left, but she wasn't here in 1959. The last 
address we have for her is in Beverly Hills, Cali
fornia. As far as we know she's still single, but 
1967 was ten years ago. A lot can happen in ten 
years."
I looked at the meager file. Her real name was 
Natalie Hope Reisberg. I guessed that she changed 
in to Teri Hope for her career. She gave her oc
cupation as "actress-freelance." There was noth
ing else the Alumni office could tell me, so I 
thanked them and tried to research elsewhere.
I called Stan Harris, the man who wrote the 
original letter. His wife answered the phone, and 
when she put him on, he didn't seem too pleased 
to hear from me. Before I knew it, we were off 
the phone and he hadn't told me a thing except 
for the fact that he did know Teri and he did 
send the letter to PLAYBOY. I guess he was afraid that his wife would find out
I got a list of Beta Sigma Rho brothers (the 
frat is no longer on campus) and decided that it 
couldn't hurt to call some of them to find out if 
they remembered anything about Teri or the cir
cumstances leading up to her being featured as 
Miss September. All the guys that I called were 
really helpful, and it was through them that I 
learned all that I now know about Teri.
Most of the men laughed when I told them the 
reason I was calling. They all remembered the 
PLAYBOY incident, but a number of them had 
conflicting stories. They all asked me to realize 
that my questions were about an event that hap
pened 19 years ago, and their memory for details 
might not be too accurate.
Jim Miller, now working for Youngstown Sheet 
and Tube Company in Ohio, was the first man to 
tell me the full story as he remembered it.
"At the time, PLAYBOY didn't have a straight 
reputation, and they were trying to get some 
prestige events going. So they started having these 
pa ties on college campuses. The Merchandise 
head at Kaufmans just happened to be a Beta Sig 
alumni, and he agreed to have a feature window
at Kaufmans of PLAYBOY fashions. We at the 
fraternity set it all up. As a reward, PLAYBOY 
offered us a champagne dinner, but we couldn't 
have it without the school's permission. Carnegie 
Tech said no, but we had the party anyway.
"In the meantime, most of the Beta Sigs were 
Printing Management Majors (no longer a CMU 
major) and we were getting along pretty well 
with the Drama Majors. One thing led to another, 
and before we knew it, Teri was asked to pose 
for PLAYBOY.
"Anyway, the magazine came out during Rush 
week, and PLAYBOY gave us thousands of foldouts. We gave the foldouts to people all over cam
pus, and it was the greatest rush tool any frat 
ever had.
"The administration didn't like it, though. The 
rush chairman and a bunch o* thp other guys 
were all called on the carpet. Teri was going to be
thrown out of school. They would have never let 
her back in if she had come back. I don't know 
what she's up to nowadays. She was going by a 
few names. Teri Ranson. Teri Hall. Terri Hall is a 
porn star now, but I'm pretty sure that it isn't 
her.
Alan Duchan, now living in Buffalo N.Y., 
told me that he remembered Teri as being sexy.
"As I remember it, the administration's argu
ment was that Carnegie Tech's name was used 
without permission of the public relations people. 
They were angry about the centerfold spread, but 
the official charge was pretty obscure. Call Bill 
Frumkin. He'll know about it more than I will. 
He went out with her."
So I called Bill Frumkin. He's now a Vice 
President with Enquirer Printing Co. in New 
York. Bill said;
I was dating her at the frat house at that time, 
and although we had a contest, there was very 
little competition for our Playmate. Teri, it was 
decided, would be elected. At that time, I sent 
a picture of her to Hefner in a contest. They were 
looking for someone who looked like the girl 
in this movie, Operation Petticoat." The movie 
picture was of a girl with her fanny sticking out.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

---------------------------------------------------

page 12-TARTAN-December 6,1977
Tewi Hope
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE
Ended up that they used Teri as the centerfold, 
not for the contest.
"She was a very lovely girl. Her parents lived in 
Kittany Pa., and they're probably still there. 
They owned a small department store there. 
We went to talk to her parents about her posing. 
Her parents weren't too enthusiastic about it. 
They were just kind, nice people. Teri finally 
convinced them to let her pose. Then, as I recall 
it, her parents had to sign something because she 
was a minor.
"Teri and I never had a real torrid romance. 
We just dated. We dated quite a bit, but she was 
more involved with the theatrics. She was just a 
kid with stars in her eyes. A dynamite looking 
little blonde.
"She was in an Elvis Presley movie, ' Acapulco 
Something-or-other,' and another movie, 'Force 
of Impulse.' I saw her six years after she left 
Carnegie Tech. I saw her once in New York and 
once in Kansas City the year I got married. Try 
contacting her parents. They might be able to 
tell* you what she's up to now. I haven't heard 
from her for at least ten years."
I tried finding her parents in Kittany, but they 
weren't listed in the phone book, so I spoke with 
some more of the Beta Sigma Rho brothers.
David Franks, now living in Conn., described 
Teri as "cute, short, blonde, blue eyes, and well 
put together."
Dr. Arnold Winikoff, now a President with 
Pillsbury software company in Minnesota, said 
that Teri "Didn't have a reputation for being 
loose, if that's what you're asking." He felt that
Teri dropped out because of pressures on her 
from the PLAYBOY article. "Let's say that there 
was alot of disapproval at the time."
Various other alumni told me that the reason 
none of the Beta Sigs were punished was because 
they were all Printing Management majors, and if 
they were thrown out of school, there wouldn't
be anybody left in the department.
One alumni prefaced his remarks by asking me 
if I was a dramat, and then told me that Teri was 
a "typical" drama student. But they all had nice 
things to say about Teri; who was sexy, pretty, 
and on her way up...a girl with stars in her eyes. 
They also all said that Teri couldn't have come 
back the next year.
Another Beta Sig brother told me that one of 
the funniest parts of it all, was when the Post 
Gazette ran a note in their Sports Section that
The caption in PlayboyThe party's over, as the song says, 
and a wonderfully weary Teri toddles off to dreamland. 
FOLIO asksWhere is that dreamland ?
said that PLAYBOY would feature Carnegie 
Tech's Teri Hope in it's Pigskin Preview. Some
how, the Post Gazette got their signals crossed, 
and thought that Teri was a football player, not 
a centerfold girl.
I called PLAYBOY in Chicago to see if they 
could locate Teri. Rumor has it that PLAYBOY 
secretaries are the nicest looking in the world. I 
spoke to at least five different secretaries, but 
none of them would tell me their measurements 
or hair color. They did tell me however that they 
had no idea what happened to Teri Hope.
I spoke with Dean Swank, who w.^s around 
Carnegie Tech in 1958, but he didn't remember 
much.
"I remember some rumors about a girl posing 
for PLAYBOY, but my predecessor in Student 
Affairs would know the whole administrative 
side of the story, if there was one."
I'm still on the lookout for some news about 
Teri. She's 38 now, maybe a mother, or maybe 
she's just about to make it big as an actress. She 
was a beautiful girl when she was a student here, 
and probably is still attractive.
It's funny. Some of the Beta Sig brothers asked 
me to send them a copy of this article to their 
offices, since they didn't want their wives to see 
it. Poor Teri Hope. 19 years after her centerfolding, she's still making waves for her male friends 
from Carnegie Tech. Someday I'll find her, and 
she'll be able to tell it all from her side of the
story. I've never spoken to a PLAYBOY Center
fold girl, but I'll bet Teri is fun, bright and 
lovable. What else could I expect from a 'Saucy 
Sophomore from Carnegie Tech?
Sta T2I8- m1oupyou l4)5 8o h521.
af you )IoT of 2 mood lo(2l m1oup o1 
b2Id you T2I8 8o h521 p51fo1m oI 
(2mpu(2ll S85ph2I45 28 578-4423 
o1 l52v5 2 Io85 28 8h5 S)4bo aIfo1m284oI 
d5-). Pl52-5 m4v5 I2m5 of 8h5 m1oup 
2Id 4f po--4bl5 8h5 I2m5 of 2 m2I2m51
8o (oI82(8.
A book is a loving gift.
Here are the first complete guides to the erotic and emotional 
fulfillment of a homosexual lifeThe Joy of Gay Sex and The 
Joy of Lesbian Sex. Companion volumes to the phenomenally 
popular Joy of Sex, they celebrate the positive aspectsthe 
health, the joy, the rightness of gay sex. With the same zest and 
exuberance as The Joy of Sex they cover everything from the first 
encounter to the particular delights of sex in later life.
The authors are gay and they know full well the difficulties of 
being gay in a straight world, but they also know the fulfillment 
from their own experience. They have created two unique books 
that will inform readers about the gay experience, and serve as 
practical sex manuals as well. Meticulous care, sensitivity, and 
gentleness have gone into the preparation of these books. An ar
tistic combination of text and illustrations, many in full color, ex
plains, advises, and reassures. Among the distinguished artists 
who have contributed to this book are Charles Raymond famous 
for The Joy of Sex and Michael Leonard illustrator of A Good 
Age
emu bookstore 

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
ROBERT KLEIN CLOWNS AROUND
HEROES: NO HEROIC MESSAGE
by Barry Driks
A Movie Review 
Film: Heroes 
Director: Jeremy Paul Kagan 
Stars: Henry Winkler and 
Sally Field
by Joan Livitski
If you havent any finals to worry 
about and have already seen all the really 
worth-while films. Heroes is a way to pass 
away the evening.
We see Henry Winklers attempt at 
breaking out of his Fonzie role but doing 
little more than an adequate job at it. 
Theres still much of the 50s greaser in 
the character of Jack Dunne. Henry plays 
a Vietnam veteran that's also the cool 
loner, the rebel against the establishment. 
In Heroes the establishment happens to be 
our government, specifically the armed 
forces, and the form of rebellion rather 
than being dropping out of school and 
still making it, is dropping out of reality 
and appearing more sane than your guardi
ans.
Jack breaks out of a mental hospital, 
but Henry plays the character as more of 
a combination of a naive 6 year old and 
a flippant quick wit than a man with a 
psychotic problem. The closest to reali
zing Jacks disturbed nature comes in a 
fight scene that ends up being little more 
than a display of toughness by a hard-nosed
punk. Otherwise, we see what appears to 
be a Joe-average going beserk at the ending.
In all we are able to get Henry to take 
off his Fonzie-leather jacket which is more 
than we can do with SaPy Field. It would 
be nice to see her let down her Gidget 
pigtails and keep her feet on the ground. 
Her character of Carol Bell is actually 
less able to handle her problems than 
the supposedly disturbed Jack. She tends 
to have as many faces as Sybil.
The plot also leaves something to be 
desired. We are once again shown how war 
mangles the minds of our men. Thankfully 
the repetition is saved by the inclusion of a 
unique angle. A group of ex-soldiers attempt 
to establish a worm farm, and Jack sets 
about searching out his partners coast to 
coast.
The first of the cohorts, Kenny (Harrision Ford), is the one pleasant surprise. 
Even though we still face little more than 
a 50s J.D. and a beach queen/nun, we see 
the versatility of one up and coming idol. 
Harrison Ford far from plays the cynical 
pilot he did in Star Wars. Instead we see a 
pathetic hayseed who hasnt been able to 
get the war out of his system. His one 
release is a souped up sports car thats 
his weapon in his war against the inhabi
tants of the small town he is rooted to. 
We suffer with him as we realize he'll 
never win a battle, let alone the war.
All too quickly we leave Kenny and 
follow Jack and Carol on their trek to 
Eureka. California to meet another partner. 
Hollywood has at least saved us from its 
typical chase scenes, or has it? A new 
variation replaces it. We see scene after 
scene of Jack and Carol hitch-hiking at
road side, getting in and out of cars, or 
gleefully riding along west coast freeways 
in everything from a wedding party car to 
a trailer pulled motor boat. They would 
have done better if Jack had straddled a 
motorcycle and Carol hovered overhead.
The movie ends on me typical happy 
note to the familiar theme of boy falls 
for girl-girl rejects boy-boy wins friend
ship of girl-boy and girl fall in love. The
saccharine sweet sentiment falls short of 
making any impact especially when Ms.
Field utters We can make it while com
forting a distraught Henry. All wed need 
are violins in the background, but instead 
we hear Carry on My Wayward Son.1 
Heroes doesn't carry any heroic mes
sages, but it does contain some subtle 
humor if you want to take the time and 
trouble to look for it.
Comedian Robert Klein, who ent
ertained two sell-out audiences in the 
Skibo Ballroom on December 2, 
came across as a person embedded in 
a state of wordly adolescence. He 
dressed like an over-protected college 
freshman, wearing a sweater over a 
shirt, conservative dark blue pants, and 
grey and white saddle shoes. His notice
able belly however alluded to his real age. 
Throughout his act he showed an insight 
that could only have been gained through 
diverse experience.
A good deal of his act was geared to
ward a college audience. He set a collegiate 
tone early in his act by telling the audience 
that  they would be quizzed on this show. 
Klein made many references to his own 
college days. He pointed out the idealistic 
way college brochures are written, then 
compared them to campus realities. His 
accounts of college life were very well 
received.
As much as the audience was aware of 
Mr. Klein, he was equally aware of the 
audience. He moved around the stage 
playing to all parts of the audience, even 
making comments on particular indivi
duals. Spotting a person who came late, or 
was changing seats would inspire a fitting 
remark.
Mr. Kleins sense of timing was excellent. 
Having discovered what would make his 
audience respond, he would give them just 
the right humorous ingredients at just the 
proper moments. His success was measured 
by the audience, which never went more 
than two minutes without a laugh. He 
employed proven laugh-getters to fill in 
gaps. Notable among these were his bow
ling alley buzzer and the woo-woo 
machine noise. These elements helped the
hour-and-a-half act to flow.
The crowds response was very good 
throughout the 8 PM show. They seemed 
to most enjoy Mr. Kleins improvisation on 
Civil Engineers, his parody on the over
sentimentality of the song Feeling, and 
his closing act, I cant stop my leg.
Mr. Klein is obviously very much the 
professional comedian, one who knows his 
audience and what to do with that audi
ence.
Mr. Klein was assisted by another talent, 
Ray Johnson, on piano.
photos by Ramanan

---------------------------------------------------

page 14-TARTAN-December 6,1977
PBT SUCCEEDS WITH LA SYLPHIDE
by Knox Uguccioni
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre was excel
lent in their recent production of La Sylph
ide and an accompanying work, Tribute
Tribute was choreographed in the late 
fifties in honor of the Ballet Russe De 
Monte Carlo and was a modem interpret
ation of strict classical dance. It is a mod
em work, but requires extensive and tho
rough training in classical technique if it is 
to be executed properly. Happily, this was 
the case. Tribute featured Jo Ann 
McCarthy dancing with Roger Triplett, 
Patricia Sweeney with Bruce Abjomson, 
and Taylor Degnan with Gregory Glodowski. All the dancers were technically excel
lent; no easy feat considering the com
plexity of the choreography. Miss 
McCarthy was delightful and she danced 
with vigor and precision but Mr. Triplett 
did not fully exploit the dazzling and ath
letic dancing that his part featured. Mr. 
Glodowski was outstanding and his breath
taking dancing was remarkable. The cos
tumes were elegantly simple tights in 
light blue and white and by their simplicity 
they enhanced the intricacy of the classi
cal movements.
La Sylphide was truly a step forward for 
the P.B.T. their dancing was inspired, well 
executed and was carefully integrated with 
the story. This is a traditional Scottish 
story about a highlander, James, who falls 
in love with Sylphide, (a woodland sprite), 
and forsakes his betrothed, Effie. An old 
witch reads Effies palm and predicts that 
she will marry Gum, who is in love with 
her. James is furious, strikes the witch and 
drives her away, while she vows her re
venge. As Effie prepares for her mar
riage to James, the sylphide appears and 
James pursues her into the forest. Effie, of 
course, is heartbroken and in despair agrees 
to marry Gum.
The old witch has been making a magic 
veil which will destroy the sylphide. She 
gives the veil to James and convinces him
that it will make the sylphide respond to 
his mortal love. Believing this, he takes the 
veil and places it around the sylphide. He 
is horrified as she dies from the evil magic 
and he watches as she is carried away by 
the other sylphs. Disconsolate, James is 
forced by the witch to watch the sylphide
as her body rises toward heaven. The 
witch strikes James dead and her revenge is 
complete.
The sylphide was danced by Eleanor 
DAntuono, the P.B.T.s guest artist in 
residence this season. Miss DAntuono was 
marvelous and danced with gentle and ex
pressive grace which few contemporary 
ballerinas have mastered. Her character
ization was exquisite and she truly became 
an ethereal sylphide. Dennis Poole danced 
the role of James, his best so far this sea
son. His dancing was dramatic and well ex
ecuted and he was totally immersed in his 
role as a love-torn Scotsman. Mr. Poole 
is truly a virtuoso dancer, capable of hand
ling the difficult requirements of character 
portrayal.
Gemot Petzold transformed the witch 
into a totally believable old woman, not a 
typical stylized witch. He danced the role 
extremely well and the different changes of 
mood, from solitude to mad rage, were ex
cellent without being outrageous. Deidre 
Salyer and Roger Triplett danced the roles 
of Effie and Gum. Miss Salyer was not a 
strong enough dancer and she had a ten
dency to become lost in scenes with large 
numbers of people. Mr. Triplett was very 
good and danced his role well. The ensem
ble was excellent and luckily did not have 
any mishaps, which have marred other 
P.B.T. productions.
Both La Sylphide and Tribute were ar
ranged for the P.B.T. by Frederic Franklin 
and his intimate knowledge of their 
strengths and weaknesses has enabled him 
to add this great set of dances to their rep
ertoire. He will be staging another ballet 
this coming January which will certainly be 
worth seeing.
PAINTING STYLES
by John Goodman
There used to be a time when you could 
say paintings and everyone knew what 
you meant. That was before Impression
ism, Expressionism, Abstract Expression
ism and a host of other abstractions and 
isms. It has become increasingly con
fusing to explain and catagorize the various 
branchings which painting has taken, par
ticularly in the 20th century.
It has gotten to the point where a lot of 
paintings dont even look like paintings. 
By downplaying brush strokes painters can 
disguise the inherent character of the paint 
and create a surface appearance that could 
be confused with a photograph, a litho
graph, or anything but a painting. This is 
generally spoken of as non-painterly 
painting.
Some artists have taken the other route 
and emphasized the brush techniques and 
the quality of the paint itself, making this 
an integral part of their work. As you 
might suspect, this is known as the painter
ly approach. The works of Kathleen Butler, 
Steve Kibert and Andrew Silverstein, 
whose Gallery show opens tonight, may be 
broadly grouped as painterly. This doesnt 
necessarily mean they have alot in com
mon. In some sense, both the paintings of 
Rem brant and Jackson Pollock could be 
called painterly. Essentially it means they
are interested in the paint as paint, and 
they show it.
Of course this isnt the full extent of 
their interest. Artists most often have some 
other reasons for painting beyond simply 
applying the paint to the canvas. The moti
vation may not always be conscious but 
the intent is there and it is possible to see it 
in the work. It helps when the artist is able 
to verbally express even a bit of it. Andrew 
Silverstein talks in terms of the affinity for 
the subjects of his paintings. Whether it 
be love, fear, hate, or any other aspect of 
the emotional spectrum, his concern is to 
convey that personal relationship of him
self to the object with his work; to make it 
accessible to the viewing public through 
techniques of color, simplification and 
abstraction.
Similarly, Kathleen Butler paints those 
objects she finds personally appealing. 
While the objects may be ordinary the 
treatment they are given makes them extra
ordinary. By emphasizing the ambiguities 
inherent in the contradictions of space ren
dered on a plane, she is able to add magic 
to the mundane. Steve Kibert, too, mani
pulates the picture plane with pattern and 
texture and affects our appreciation of the 
surface. As with the work of the other ar
tists in this show the painterly treatment of 
the subjects adds dimensions and explores 
the possibilities of expression found in the 
object.
By attending the opening tonight, from 
7:30 to 9:00, you'll have the chance to 
meet the artists and, should you choose, 
talk with them about their work. But the 
show runs all week and anytime is good to 
see it. If youre too busy during the week, 
try going on the weekend when the artists 
will again be present as attendants and can 
help you get a greater insight into the 
exhibit.
John Goodman is a member of the 
FORBES STREET GA LLER Y.
ADVENT 
PRAYER 
SERVICE 
8:00 P.M.
DECEMBER 6 CMU's CHAPEL (SKIBO 39)
Sponsored by the Episcopal & Roman Catholic Chaplaincies.
The Feast of he 
IMMACULATE CONCEPTION:
(Holyday of Obligation)
Hunt Library Multipurpose Room 
(Use Frew St. Entrance)
SUNDAY MASSES:
7:00 P.M. 
10:30 A.M.
12:00 Noon
Saturday Folk Mass 
Folk Mass
Solemn Liturgy
Hunt Library 
Multipurpose Room
Heinz Chapel
DAILY MASSES Monday through Friday 
12:30 Noontime CMU's Chapel (Skibo 39)
UUSv%rPSty oratory of th% Holy epSrSt ParSPh 
CMU'P p.C. ChaplaSUcy - Fr. Bob tUglSPh 
4040 BSg%low BlvA. PSttPburgh, Pa. 15213 
(412) 681-3181

---------------------------------------------------

December 6,1977TARTANpage 15
PREVIEW OF 1978 CALENDARS
by Joan Livitski
Now that Thanksgiving is behind us we 
are free to anticipate Christmas and with 
that New Years. It wont be long before 
1978 is upon us. Are you ready? Well, if 
vou arent quite organized yet, make things 
easier by investing in a functional wonder, 
the calendar. Already organized, you say? 
Then pick out one to dress up your dorm 
room. CMUs Bookstore carries a wide 
variety.
For those of you who cant resist a cud
dly stuffed plaything or a cutsy knickknack, look into Bo-Trees wide array ot
colorful photographic calendars. They 
carry several featuring animals including 
cats, horses and one called Bless the Beasts 
which pictures loveable animals of the 
wild. Others are In Praise Of Women Artists, Back Roads Of America, Edibles (to 
remind you of the diet youre always 
starting...tomorrow) and Dont Call Me Sweetheart. ($4.50 each) They not only 
give you something to plaster on Morewoods pastel walls, but allow enough 
room with each day by day square for you 
to jot down everything happening.
For you Sci-Fi and Fantasy buffs that 
can resist the temptation of buying a Star
<OKi !SCHt ItrMr ?* IStHl
 z:z ~.....i jr~- > }   >     f- SA *** o 0   , mm>  e
IOUDNE4S tOW~Wet$-WGH
JVC builds in 
what the others leave out.
JVCs three new top-of-the-line receiv
ers feature the exclusive SEA. 5-zone 
graphic equalizer system to give you 
complete command of the music spec 
trum from low lows to high highs. Lets 
you custom tailor your sound.
JVC S600 It AM/FM Stereo Receiver.
JVCs best 120 watts/ch. min. RMS. 
8 ohms. 20-20,000 Hz. with no more 
tharvQ,.08o total harmonic distortion. 
Exclusive S E A. graphic equalizer 5 
zone tone control.
JVC S40CT II AM/FMSfcM) Receiver
you want in a receiver. Ex
clusive S E A graphic equalizer 80 
watts/ch. min. RMS, 8 ohms, 20-20,000
totalHz, with no more than 0 08% 
harmonic distortion.
JVC S300 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver.
This power house delivers 50 watts/ 
ch. min RMS, 8 ohms. 20-20,000 Hz, 
with no more than 0 1% total har
monic distortion. SEA 5-zone graphic 
equalizer. S E A. Record switch.
JVC S200 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver.
35 watts/ch min. RMS. 8 ohms, 20-,
20.000 Hz. with no more than 0.5o
^otal harmonic djstortio^. ^
JVC S100 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver.
20 watts/ch. min RMS. 8 ohms. 40-
20.000 Hz, with no more than 0 5o 
total harmonic distortion.
ADD ANY OF THESE GREAT JVC COMPONENTS 
TO A JVC RECEIVER FOR AN UNBEATABLE SYSTEM.
I"IIPBBI1 [
<*> 9 ^ X
JVC KD 35 Cassette Deck with Dolby.
Exclusive Sen-Alloy head, 5 LED peak 
level indicators. Bias/EQ switches. 
Auto-stop. Connect a timer and record 
when you're not there
UCvWCi
JVC KD-S200 II Cassette Deck. Unique 
JVC Super ANRS reduces tape hiss. 5 
peak-reading LEDs. Sen Alloy head Au 
tomatic stop Bias/EQ switches. Ab 
sentee recording when connected to 
timer. -------
JVC JL-F30 Fully Automatic Turntable.
Automatic tonearm lead-in, return and 
shutoff Repeat play from one to six 
times, or continuously Belt-dnve mo
tor. Oil damped cueing Anti-skate 2 
speeds Base & dust cover.
JVC JL-F50 Fully Automatic DirectDrive Turntable. Up front controls for 
operation with dust cover closed Au 
tomatic lead m. return and shutoff 
One thru six replays, or continuous 
Speed control Anti-skate 2 speeds 
Base & dust cover
JVC SK-1000 3 Way Speaker System
New Phase Moire technology Solid 
bass blend with smooth midrange and 
crisp highs Mid & high frequency con 
trols. 170 watts (peak). 85 watts RMSJVC
Available at these 
JVC Spotlight dealers
AFC ELECTRONICS 5924 Penn Mall. Pittsburgh  AFC ELEC
TRONICS 4814 McKmght road. Pittsburgh  CAR HOf/E 
STEREO 197 Morgantown St Uniontcun  CAR HOME STEREO 
1725 Mileground. Morgantov.n  SOUNDWORLD 168 West 
Madison Avenue. Rochester  SOUNDWORLD McKmght Seibert 
Shopping Center. Pittsburgh  SOUNDWORLD 2967 West Liber
ty Avenue. Pittsburgh  SOUNDWORLD Allegheny Center Mall 
Terrace. Pittsburgh  SOUNDWORLD 3519 Forres Avenue Pitt 
sburgh  SOUNDWORLD 60 Alpha Drive. Pittsburgh 
Wars Calendar and yet want a change from 
youi traditional Tolkien or Star Trek cal
endars, why not try The Calendar of Life 
by Winterspring Inc. Included are artfully 
done paintings, mostly watercolors, of such 
fantasy elements as pirates, sea serpents, 
planetary travel and utopias. A full spread 
centerfold is added, but its far from being 
like Playboys versions.
For the tried and true English student 
for whom the hours of class discourse on 
the classics arent enough, theres A Literary Calendar (Cahill & Co. $3.95). The 
black and white photos arent anything to 
spruce up the walls with, but along with 
quotations from Lord Byron, Thoreau,
Sierra Gub not only produce exquisitt 
nature calendars but work at bettering our 
environment. Their engagement book is a 
weekly desk variety that provides space 
enough for memos of social functions and 
class assignments alike while displaying 
photographs that allow you to get away 
from it all, if only for a moment.
A not so functional but intriguing cal
endar is the Sierra Clubs Little Creatures 
(Scribners Sons). Even the most squeamish 
will find appeal in the sketches and photo
graphs of insects of all kinds. Its more of a 
daily biology book than a calendar with its 
thumbnail illustrations and anecdotes on 
many rarely seen or ignored species. Arent
Tennyson, Hardy, Twain, e.e. cummings 
and Faulkner, birth dates of hundreds of 
authors are given. Its great for easy refer
ences on trivia about someone youve al
ways enjoyed or for discovering a new 
found favorite. All you Evelyn Woods 
graduates can find a method to your mad
ness by choosing your book for the day by 
whose birthday it is.
Nature worshippers as well as those 
whod just like a reminder that all the 
world isnt Pittsburgh and steel mills will 
enjoy the Eliot Porter Calendar: American Wilderness (E. P. Dutton 55.95) The well 
chosen wooded photographs will not only 
enhance the room while the date is dis
played, but the full color prints are suitable 
for framing to add class to any decor-.
Need a more practical solution to 
keeping life in order, yet want something 
aesthetically appealing? Try The Wilderness 
Sierra Club Engagement Calendar. The
you the least bit curious how the fiddler 
crab lures his female, or what the differ* 
ence is between a skunk and skink, or how 
a butterfly makes his shadow nothing more 
than a single inconspicuous line?
But even though it contains more data 
than many biology texts, all beauty and ap
peal is not lost. Interspersed with the facts 
are poems by such reknowns as: Emily 
Dickinson, Ogden Nash, Lewis Carroll, 
Maxine Kumin and William Carlos 
Williams.
Last but not least for the little kid in all 
of us is Winnie-the-Poohs Calendar Book 
(E. P. Dutton $3.25). When were fed up 
with being responsible adults who are in 
college to make serious preparations for 
the future, its a relief to turn to Ernest 
Sheppards endearing illustrations. The ac
companying verse is lighthearted but not 
to be thought below even the student with 
the highest QPA.
Who are you, telling us how to run our business?
It takes a lot of confidence to come 
fresh out of school and begm telling us 
how to do things
On the other hand, it takes an un
usual company to provide the kind of 
environment where that can happen, but 
that is exactly the environment you'll find 
at Scott Paper
We constantly search for people 
who have the ability to respond to chal
lenge and think for themselves those 
with the initiative and desire to seek al
ternatives, the skill and courage to con
vince others that there are better ways 
and wno aren t afraid to express their 
ideas
At Scott, we admire an aggressive 
stance because we are an aggressive 
company You can make your own op* 
portunities with us and we It prove it
Contact your 
placement office 
for information
SCOTT
an equal opportunity employer, m/f

---------------------------------------------------

tAT & tiJoY
op
W H ATe tiJoYABLt
To tAT
FOOD & POPULATION SERIES 
PART II
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6 
7:30 PM WHERRETROOM 
MALCOLM ROURNE - 
PROF. OF FOOD & SCIENCE 
CORNELL UNIVERSITY
SPONSORED BY:
PROGRAM IN TECHNOLOGY AND HUMANITIES AND CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING,

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
MUSIC
The Pittsburgh Symphony Chamber Orch
estra and the Mendelssohn Choir of Pitts
burgh will present their annual holiday 
treatthree performances of George 
Frederick Handel's beloved Oratorio Messiah in Heinz Hall on Tuesday, Decem
ber 6. Donald Johanos, the Chamber Or
chestra director, will conduct.
Tickets are priced at $6.50, $5.50 and 
$4.50.
William Steinberg will conduct the Pitts
burgh Symphony in performances of 
Felix Mendelssohns Piano Concerto No. 2 
and Gustav Mahlers Symphony No. 2 in 
Heinz Hall concerts on Thursday, Decem
ber 11 at 2:30 PM. Pianist Jeffrey Siegel 
will be guest artist.
The American musical legend Fred Waring 
and his 30 dynamic Young Pennsylvanians 
will present a 2XA hour variety show en
titled Its All About Love at Heinz Hall 
on Wednesday, December 7 at 8PM.
Tickets to see these dazzling perform
ances in the Fred Waring Show are $8, $7, 
and $6 on sale at Heinz Hall, Gimbels, 
Sears, Kaufmanns, and Hornes. Discount 
information is available by contacting 
Ms. Nancy Sieber at (412) 281-8185.
Academy, Grammy, and Tony-Award win
ner Marvin Hamlisch makes his Pittsburgh 
debut performing in Heinz Hall subscrip
tion concerts with the Pittsburgh Sym
phony "Pops Orchestra on Saturday, 
December 10 at 8 PM, Sunday, December 
11 at 8 PM, and Monday, December 12 at 
7:30 PM.
While attendance at Pops Series con
certs is by season subscription only, some 
tickets are occasionally turned back to the 
Heinz Hall box office for resale. Informa
tion may be obtained by phoning 281- 
5000.
The CMU Jazz Ensemble of CarnegieMellon University will perform in the 
Chatham College Chapel on Thursday, 
December 8 at 8 PM. The concert is free 
and open to the public.
Blood, Sweat & Tears, featuring David 
Clayton-Thomas, will appear at the 
Holiday House December 26-31st. Show 
times are 8:30 and 11:00 PM.
The band has just released its new al
bum, Brand New Day, for its new label, 
ABC Records.
David Tessmer is to play the solo flute 
part in the Bach Brandenburg concertos 
Nos. 2 and 5 at the Carnegie Civic Sym
phony Concert on Dec. 6, 1977 at the Carlynton Middle School in Carnegie, Pa. 
Other works on the program will be the 
Bach two harpsichord concerto and comp
ositions by Aaron Copland and Charles 
Ives. Tickets are available at the door. Cur
tain time 8:30 PM.
THEATRE
The Community College of Allegheny 
County South Campus is preparing its 
production of Jesus Christ Superstar 
as a dinner theatre to be presented on 
December 8, 9, 10, 15, 16, and 17th with 
curtain at 8. Advance reservations are 
needed for the buffet dinner which is being 
' served at 6:30. Reservations can be made 
by calling 469-1100 extensions'390 or 385; 
prices are $8.50 including dinner and $5.00 
for show only. Group rates are available.
You Never Can Tell has opened at the 
Pittsburgh Public Theatre and will play 
through December 9. This is a wonderful 
production of the George Bernard Shaw 
play. For information call the box office 
at 323-1900. They have a student rush 
program where a student can obtain a 
ticket one half hour before curtain for 
only $2.50.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will present Friedman & Son by Mark Harris, Fridays 
through Sundays, December 2-18, at 
8:30 PM. The Pittsburgh Laboratory 
Threatre is located at 3300 Fifth Avenue 
(corner of Fifth and Craft Avenues), Oak
land. Seating is limited, and advance 
reservations should be made by calling 
621-2876.
Bubbling Brown Sugar, the musical fan
tasia featuring the glamorous jazz age of 
Harlem in its heyday, which played before 
eight sold-out, intoxicated audiences in 
Heinz Hall two months ago, now returns 
in the same joyous, nostalgic, sparkling 
production to the same stagewith most 
of the same starsto play three more 
shows: Tuesday at 8, December 13, and
at both 2 PM and 8 PM on Wednesday, 
December 14. Tickets for these three 
December performances are now on sale at 
Heinz Hall and area department stores, 
with mail-order information available by 
phoning 281-5000.
BRITTAN1ARULES.
Rule *3 Neat Vests.
Rule * 1 Look for this label
BR8SSAN8A
The newest rule in 
denim style  lean fitting 
jeans, shirts and vests. 
Good looking, great 
detailing, and the sizes 
to fit. So leam the new 
rule. Brittania.
South Hills Village 
PITTSBURGH
201-5th Avenue 
PITTSBURGH
CINEMA
AB will presenting a film directed by Wer
ner Herzog called Everyman for Himself and All Against God on Thursday, Dec. 8 
at 6, 8:30 and 11 in Doherty Hall. This is 
a true story about a man who appears in a 
German town hardly above animal level. 
The people teach him to speak, read and 
live when, mysteriously, he is murdered. 
Tickets are .75 with ID.
AB will present Marathon Man on Friday, 
December 9 at 6:30, 9 and 11:30. This 
much over-rated film involves a young 
man studying at Columbia who becomes 
the target of a sadistic, egotistical Nazi 
dentist. Dustin Hoffman stars. Tickets are 
one dollar with an ID.
SDC will be presenting that musical com
edy favorite, Oliver, on Saturday, Decem
ber 10. This is a film taken from the stage 
play, which was taken from Dickens class
ic, Oliver Twist. Showings are at 6, 8:30, 
and 11 in Doherty Hall. Its free.
Take an expedition to Egypt, Gift of the 
Nile, December 5-8 with Doug Jones. 
The travelogue is part of the Carnegie Insti
tute Travel Film Series. For information, 
please call 622-3314.
The Arts and Crafts Center of Pittsburgh is 
opening its 23rd annual Christmas Sale 
on November 20 from 10 AM until 9 PM. 
Though the Sale is closed every Monday 
and on Thanksgiving Day, it is open from 
10 AM till 6 PM Tuesday through Sunday 
until December 23. The Arts and Crafts 
Center is located at the comer of Fifth and 
Shady Avenue in Shady side.
MISC.
ART
The Hewlett Gallery in the College of Fine 
Arts Building is showing an exhibition of 
recent works by the students from the 
CMU Department of Architecture. It will 
run until December 16. The Gallery is 
open 11 to 4 PM, Monday through Fri
day.
The Point Park College Dance Company 
presents its first full-length ballet entitled Prince of the Pagodas at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse December 2-11 at 8:00 PM. 
With music by Benjamin Britten, Nicolas 
Petrov, the company's Artistic Director, 
will choreograph the first American ver
sion of this fairytale ballet spectacular.
Tickets for the performances are avail
able by calling the Playhouse at 621-4445. 
Group rates and student prices are avail
able.
A wine and cheese party will be spon
sored by Squirrel Hill NOW on December 
10, 1977 at 8:30 PM at Birmingham 
Booksellers at 2222 E. Carson Street on 
the South Side, just across the new Birm
ingham Bridge.
The party is open to the public. Tickets 
may be purchased from Squirrel Hill 
National Organization for Women members 
or at the door. The price is $3.00 for four 
servings of wine. Cheese and hors 
doeuvres will be provided.
There will be a fund-raising party for the 
American Civil Liberties Union on Decem
ber 10 from 6 PM on at 5547 Raleigh St. 
Featuring Mexican food with beer and soft 
drinks; continuous musical entertainment 
by Cucumber Rapids. Tickets at $5 per 
person from ACLU, 237 Oakland, 
681-7736.
A Book is a Loving Gift
TOLKIEN FANS REJOICE!
THE HOBBIT COMES ALIVE 
IN THIS DELUXE EDITION 
WITH HUNDREDS OF DELIGHTFUL 
COLOR ILLUSTRATIONS
THE HOBBIT
An -Illustrated Edition with the original text
BY J.R.R. TOLKEIN
animated film by Arthur Rankin and Jules 
Bass shown on NBC Television at 
Thanksgiving, this full-fledged book ver
sion will enchant young and old.
The Hobbit, of course, is known to millions 
of readers the world over. Tolkien began 
telling his family of Bilbo s adventures with 
the magic ring and the invisible theft of the 
dragon's treasure as early as 1933. But never 
before, even in the author s own illustrations, 
has every quaint and endearing character 
and each suspenseful scene in the saga been 
picturedand accompanied by the full text 
of Tolkien s original version, first published in 
1937. Those who have read tolkien before 
will surely want to own this glorious volume. 
And for those who do not know of the hobbits magical exploitsthe lifesaving riddle 
game with Gollum, Gandolf s thunderbolts, 
the swarves brave journey. Smaug s fiery 
battlesthis is an incomparable gift.
300 illustrations, including 20d in full 
color with two 36-inch fold-outs, 220 pages 
11-3/8 x 10-5/8".
$35.00
Here is the fully illustrated, deluxe edi
tion with the complete text of the original 
version of Tolkien's great classica character-by-character, scene-by-scene rendition in 
glorious color. Based on the 90-minute
emu bockstore

---------------------------------------------------

WE'RE LOOKING FOR A FEW GOOD CAPITALISTS
have to offer you is experience in making ideas become reality and 
funds to get you off the ground.
You dont have to be super creative to be a capitalist, however. Your 
claim to fame may be solving problems in operations that already exist. 
Either way we want you. Call J. Bothwell, 683-5410, or D. L. Simon, 
421-3499.
Good ideas are hard to come by, but so are good opportunities.
We have good money for good ideas
funded by student activities fee
You may have a pet project, a clever scheme, a good idea for a 
money-making venture. But as a student you have some problems. What 
are the things I should and shouldn't do to make a student business 
work? How much money do I need to start and where do I get it?
We are the Carnegie-Mellon Student Government Corporation and 
what we want are your ideas. Ideas like a student employment service 
or a typewriter rental service. Ideas that will make money. What we

---------------------------------------------------

9 Campus Security still provides escort services. Students can request the service from any campus 
emergency phone or by calling 578-2323.
Trial escort service fails
by Sandra Metz and Belinda Quan
November 4 and 5, from 10 PM to 2 
AM, CMUs amateur radio club (W3VC) 
held a trial run of a Student Escort Ser9 vice.
The service was primarily designed to 
provide on-campus escorts for women, but 
 is available to anyone. Each escort consists 
of two people, one of whom carries a port
able amateur (ham) radio.
In this manner, each escort team is 
in constant contact with a base station 
located in the Security office in Baker 
^ Hall. An escort always consists of two 
people because of possible legal problems 
which could arise from one man escorting 
one woman.
The trial program was not well received, 
primarily due to poor publicity. A mis
understanding between Campus Security, 
the Tech Radio Club, and the local Post 
Office occurred which prevented most of 
the prepared publicity from reaching the 
students. This resulted in no requests for 
escorts on November 4th, and only one 
request on November 5th.
In spite of this setback, however, the
Tech Radio Club was prepared. An an
tenna was erected on top of Baker Hall,and 
escort teams were standing by.
Greg Lebovitz, president of the club, 
explained that the Escort Service was 
a part of their public service program. 
All members of the club who worked on 
the service were volunteers, using their 
own equipment (portable ham radios on 
the 2 mtr. FM band, using a frequency of 
146.52 MHz.)
These voluteers were unpaid. However, 
Tech Radio Club is looking for people to 
act as the second on the escort team. 
This second person would not require 
an amateur radio license, but would be 
paid for the work.
Anyone interested in working with 
the Escort Service or who has a question 
concerning the service, can contact Greg 
by leaving a note in the Tech Radio Club 
mailbox at Skibo Information Desk.
The Escort Service will have another 
trial weekend early next semester. If stud
ent response is good, the service will be 
continued on weekends and possibly 
extended to weeknights.
Rhodesians state position
continued from page 4
^Instead the administrators said that the 
Rhodesians actions gave the program a bad 
name and that CMU could no longer raise 
money.
The officials then gave the students two 
options: 1) plane ticket to Rhodesia:
2) stay in the program until only enough 
money is left to send you home. 
Upon hearing this, Joshua said that some 
^of the students decided to plead and 
cry. They wanted to be educated but it 
was now at the expense of their lives.
Students are "political pawns"
Joshua went on to explain that if they 
went back to Rhodesia, the Ian Smith 
regime would imprison them for dropping 
out of the program.
He explained that if they had stayed in 
^ the program and gone back to Rhodesia 
to work in the government, they could be a 
help in saving the present political system, 
since they were black, but yet in whiteminority government.
The students would in effect be political 
pawns, that would benefit the Smith
regime. Dropping out of the program 
would be a sign to Ian Smith that the stu
dents were against the political aspects of 
the project, thus making them revolution
aries.
Liberationists will send students to gallows
If Ian Smith did not imprison them, 
Joshua added, then the liberation forces 
(the black masses) would send them to 
the gallows because the students were 
marked as traitors to the country for parti
cipating in the program; thus they were 
trapped with nowhere to go.
Joshua then offered his groups solu
tions to the problem. They want CMU to 
help them transfer to another school and 
pay all tuition and living costs. They would 
also consider switching departments within 
CMU.
The eight students claim that these solu
tions are the only ways CMU can fulfill 
its educational obligations to them, but 
they did not say why. They also did not 
say how these solutions would relieve 
them of their political problems.
PREPARE FOR:MCAT  DATLSAT  GMAT GRE  OCAT  VAT ? SAT
NMB I. II. Ill -ECFMG FLEX* VQE
NAT L DENTAL BOARDS  NURSING BOARDS
Flexible Programs & Hours
There IS a difference!!!
For HUformatSoU Pl%aP% Call HAIR J -fl
* MPUN
tDUCATHoiAL CtiTtp 
f tEST PREPARATION
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
661-2772
ESSEX HOUSE C=
NEGLEY & CENTER AVE.
Outside N Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800 223 1782
Centers in Valor OS Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano. Switzerland
4-fj ! * ? *        * ? +   ? ? * ?            J
it Registration by Dec.7.Pc Information & al at the
O Skibo Info. Desk
yrmnd tHj cfonmwt/

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
CMU hoopers start season off on right foot
by Bob Firm
Coach Dave Maloneys Carnegie-Mellon 
Tartans used an old weapon from last 
years championship season and a new 
one they hope to keep all season in 
downing visiting Grove City in the 
opener, 61-50. CMUs old ally, the four 
' corners offense, helped the Tartans down 
the stretch with key buckets to preserve 
a slender lead. But the new friend, re
bounding, was the deciding factor.
The Tartans 39-25 domination of the 
glass certainly pleased Maloney. We 
had strong rebounding tonight, he said. 
Larry Hufnagel, Les Harper, and Mike 
Underhill really did a job. Rebounding 
is important to us because we need it 
for our running game.
Another aspect of the tight contest 
that should help Maloney sleep easier 
is the way that his young troops played 
under pressure. The Tartans, after lead
ing since the opening tip-off, fell behind 
by three 38-35 midway into the second 
half as 6-8 senior center Dirk Vandermeer 
t sparked an eight point Wolverine explo
sion. Vandermeer led all scorers for the 
contest with 20.
The Tartans showed the stuff that 
champions are made of by quickly re
grouping and turning things around. 
Two jumpers by Harper off the fast break 
and free throws by Greg Chambers had 
CMU back in control, 43-38.
At the 6:00 mark, CMU went into the 
four corners offense. Senior co-captain 
George Harvey found some operating 
room from the fine defensive pressure 
of Chuck Roser and combined with soph
omore sparkplug Mariano Flip DeFilippo to run the patented slowdown to 
perfection. When Harper slam dunked 
with one minute left in the game, the 
1-2 Wolverines were officially Out to 
Lunch for the evening as the Tartans 
coasted to the 61-50 final.
CMU looked in mid-season form as 
Harvey led the Tartans to a quick 14-7 
advantage with four hoops in the early 
going. But the patient Grove City worked 
their disciplined offense to get the higher 
percentage shots and strong defense 
to force the Tartans into several bad 
shots, in order to stay in the game.
In the end, the balanced attack of 
CMU proved too much for the visitors. 
The Tartans placed three starters in double 
figures. Harvey and Harper took down 
scoring honors for Tech with 16 apiece. 
DeFilippo added 13 points, many coming 
from clutch foul shots in the closing 
minutes.
Hufnagel led the boards assault by 
gathering in 10 loose balls. Harper had 
eight rebounds and Underhill and Cham
bers split 12.
In the preliminary contest, the Tartan 
JVs defeated Grove City JVs by the 
score of 71-60. Dave Stefanick paced 
CMU with 22 points. Freshmen Joe 
Belechak, Buddy Hobart, and Dave Hofmeister all hit double figures with 15,
12, and 10 points respectively. Joe Sudar 
led the Wolverine attack with 25.
Carnegie-Mellon returns to action with 
two home games this week. The Tartans 
(1-0) face LaRoche College tomorrow 
night at 8:00 PM and powerful Wooster 
Saturday night at 7:00 PM.
These photographs are from 
the Red-White game which was 
held just before the Thanks
giving Break. The game was 
an exhibition of the offensive 
and defensive weapons that the 
Basketball Team will unleash 
on their opponents this season.
The Reds won the game.
photos by Ramanan
14
Ms. Janet Keppler (center) is the new women's Basketball Coach. She is 'hown with the members of her squad. They hope to improve substantially upon 
their record pf last season. Their first game is this Thursday at 5 PM, against Point Park.
THE TARTAN NEEDS A SPORTS EDITOR
INTERESTED PEOPLE SHOULD CONTACT THE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF AT 578-2111
