PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
First Fridays showcase local visual, performing arts  B8
SCITECH
Undeclared students show ?scal irresponsibility  A7
FORUM
Exercise coach helps physical therapy patients  A4
thetartan.org
@thetartan
March 5, 2012
Volume 106, Issue 21
BRENT HEARD
Assistant News Editor
The Entertainment Technology Center (ETC) announced a new partnership 
with 31st Street Studios, 
Paramount on Location, and 
Knight Vision Studios last 
Monday. The deal would 
bring a studio equipped for 
new motion-capture technology to 31st Street Studios.
Described by the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette as having 
the potential to be the best 
?lm and video production 
facility for movies outside 
Southern California, this 
partnership provides production opportunities for Carnegie Mellon ETC students, as 
well as for the movie production companies in the areas.
Mk Haley, associate executive producer at the ETC, 
described the new partnership as sort of a community 
supporting each other.
We have a very long relationship with some of the 
key people who have a stake 
in 31st Street. It makes a lot 
of sense for us to partner up, 
Haley said.
The 31st Street Studios 
facility resides in a large steel 
production building in the 
Strip district. The Pittsburgh 
Business Times reported that 
the ETC will hold graduate 
classes in the facility in the 
future.
The ETC itself will stay by 
the Monongahela River, but 
students will now have access 
to the 31st Street Studio facilities, which promise to house 
the largest soundstage outside of the Los Angeles area.
As Anthony Daniels, visiting ETC professor and voice 
of C3PO in the Star Wars 
?lm series, told Essential 
Public Radio, The Entertainment Technology Center is 
staying where it is on Technology Drive, but we are going to have a permanent presence here in the studio where 
students can come and work 
on their projects.
EMILY DOBLER
Editor-in-Chief
The Undergraduate Student Senate unanimously 
voted at its meeting Thursday 
night to hold impeachment 
proceedings against Student 
Body President Jake Flittner. 
The motion for impeachment 
was made by Senator Jonathan Mark, a junior drama 
major.
Senate Chair Will Weiner, 
a junior social and decision 
sciences and statistics double 
major, said the motion to impeach Flittner was on the 
grounds of him not ful?lling 
his constitutional duties. 
Weiner added, The general 
feeling is that [Senate] wanted to make a statement that 
student government is something that should be taken 
seriously and should be held 
accountable, and if people 
arent ful?lling their constitutional duties, there should be 
something done to rectify that 
situation.
Mark said that Flittners job 
as student body president was 
unsatisfactory and that the 
feeling wasnt exactly new. 
Mark also said that Flittner 
was not present at Thursdays 
meeting to hear of the request 
for impeachment. As president, Flittner is required to attend or send a representative 
to every Senate meeting.
According to Mark, the 
request for impeachment 
was not meant to humiliate 
Flittner, but to make a statement about the seriousness of 
student government positions.
Were not trying to hurt 
Jake, he said. Also, weve 
seen some people who think 
running for a student government position is a joke, and we 
want to show people that that 
is not the case. When theres a 
bad cog in the system, you get 
to a point where it looks real 
bad for student government.
Student Body Vice President Sangita Sharma, a junior 
materials science and biomedical engineering double major, 
did not agree with how Student Senate members handled 
the situation. She felt that 
none of the Senate members 
Senate unanimously moves to impeach SBP
JENNIFER COLOMA
Junior Staffwriter 
MADELYN GLYMOUR 
News Editor
TEDxCMU presented at 
Carnegie Mellon for the third 
year in a row this past Sunday 
in McConomy Auditorium. 
TEDx stands for independently organized TED event 
and its goal is to share ideas 
worth spreading. 
Every year, the event 
brings a diverse range of 
speakers presenting their own 
take on TEDxs theme. This  
year, the theme was interpretation.
We have a much higher 
variety of speakers this year, 
said senior computational 
biology major Judith Savitskaya, the head of publicity 
for TEDxCMU. Some of the 
criticisms that weve got in the 
past is that speakers kind of 
gather around the same subject, but this year weve tried 
to really diversify.
TEDx had thirteen speakers this year: Sahil Harlalka, 
Ardon Shorr, Jay Whitacre, 
John Riccitiello, Gil Taran, 
Sean Ogle, Gala Darling, 
Razi Imam, Stephen Neely, 
Matthew Manos, Zach Weiner, Jennifer Stock, and the 
Three?fty Duo: guitarists 
Brett Parnell and Geremy 
Schulick.
Savitskaya said that the 
speakers were chosen based 
on whom TEDxCMU team 
members were interested 
in. It was a lot of individual 
interest, but we have a very 
diverse team. So we kind of 
used that to our advantage, 
she said.
Junior guitar performance 
major Jeesoo Sohn, TEDxCMUs president, said, I 
told my team, Who are your 
biggest inspirations in this 
world? Who do you look up 
to? What blogs do you read? 
Obviously, they had to be connected to Carnegie Mellon or 
Pittsburgh.
Each of the chosen speakers had something to share 
with the audience. Imam, an 
innovator and entrepreneur, 
shared the concept of engineering luck for oneself. Ogle, 
a lifestyle entrepreneur, went 
over the differences between 
what he called the Traditional American Dream and the 
New American Dream. Ogle 
explained that people prefer 
unhappiness over uncertainty 
 uncertainty of what they 
want, of how to get what they 
want  and so they stick to 
the Traditional American 
Dream of getting a job, having 2.5 children, and having 
the perfect house with a white 
picket fence.
Ask yourself one thing: 
What do you want to do with 
your life? Ogle said. I know 
this is the cheesiest thing, but 
there are only seven days in a 
week, and some day is not in 
it. Ogle argued against not 
going after what you really 
want merely because of uncertainty.
Neely, an artist lecturer, 
used a swing set and piano 
onstage during his talk. Neely 
had his son swing while he 
made an analogy of how the 
motion of a swing is similar to 
the motion an orchestra conductor makes while conducting. Neely then played the piano as the audience conducted. 
The general purpose of his 
talk was to convey a simple 
message: The artful experience is something to aspire 
to, Neely said. Its something thats to be dynamic, to 
be experienced, and you have 
to ?gure out what is the role in 
that, and how are you able to 
?nd that experience.
Erik Pintar, ?rst-year electrical and computer engineering major, said he liked 
Neelys talk. The connection 
he made about the swinging 
and the music: It helped connect a very natural moment in 
childhood to what we see as 
something so sophisticated, 
Pintar said. When the beauty really comes from natural 
movement.
In the three years of TEDxCMUs existence, Sohn said 
that the event has grown a lot. 
According to Sohn, TEDxCMU 
received over 1,100 applications from people hoping to 
attend TEDx this year, more 
than double McConomys capacity. She said that this years 
TEDxCMU team is twice the 
size of last years.
Pintar said that he had 
watched a bit of TEDx online before and that they were 
all really interesting and inspirational and helped transform knowledge and ideas 
into meaningful experiences 
for others. 
He heard that TEDx would 
be occurring on campus 
through his adviser. As soon 
as I saw it, I had to go, Pintar 
said.
Meanwhile, Kyra Ceceris, 
a research and development 
engineer, learned about 
TEDxCMU through PopCity 
Online. Ceceris, like Pintar, 
had seen the TEDx videos 
online, but she had never seen 
them live before.
I thought it would be a 
good experience [to come] 
since theyre in Pittsburgh, 
Ceceris said. I enjoyed it ... 
[but] since I work for biotech, 
it would be interesting to see 
something related to science.
When people come to any 
TED event, theyre excited 
about listening to that one 
speaker, Sohn said. I think 
most people learn most from 
the ones they werent excited 
about. Its important to keep 
an open mind.
All of the TEDxCMU talks 
from the past three years are 
available online to watch for 
free at tedxcmu.com.
TEDx brings luminaries to campusETC, 31st Street Studios team up
Evacuation smooth after bomb threat
JENNIFER COLOMA
Junior Staffwriter
Police of?cers and employees in the buildings evacuated during a bomb threat 
last Monday have different 
perspectives on how smoothly the sweep went.
University Police received 
a bomb threat, via different 
notes found in different locations on campus, at around 
8:30 a.m. The threat targeted 
both Warner Hall and Smith 
Hall. About an hour later, 
University Police evacuated 
the targeted buildings, and 
the Pittsburgh Bomb Squad 
began a ?oor-by-?oor search. 
They didnt say bomb 
threat. They said, We need 
you to leave the building, 
and they told us to go over 
to Cyert, said Ruth Vojtko, a 
Warner Hall receptionist. It 
wasnt an alarming, Quick, 
get out of here evacuation.
Cyert Hall is connected to 
Warner Hall at the basement 
level. University Police did 
not say why they evacuated 
employees of Warner Hall 
to Cyert, only that they took 
matters of campus safety very 
seriously. However, according to Lettia Denormandie, 
an enrollment services receptionist, there was a slight 
miscommunication as to 
how University Police and 
the Pittsburgh Bomb Squad 
would conduct the search.
We thought that we were 
supposed to wait until they 
cleared all the other ?oors 
before we moved out, Denormandie said. While some 
employees in Warner Hall left 
as soon as they were noti?ed, 
others remained behind.
University Police has a different perspective. According 
to Lieutenant Gary Scheimer, 
See IMPEACH, A3
File photo by Alex Cooper Webster
Student Body President Jake Flittner may soon be impeached.
See STUDIOS, A3
Jennifer Coloma/Staff
Geremy Schulick, half of classical guitar duo Three?fty Duo, plays in 
front of a series of ?lms projected on a backdrop.
Jennifer Coloma/Staff
Stephen Neely, an artist lecturer in eurhythmics, pushes his 9-year-old son on a swing. According to Neely, the motion of a swing is much like the 
motion one makes when conducting an orchestra.
Jennifer Coloma/Staff
Police evacuated Warner Hall after a bomb threat last Monday.
See THREAT, A3

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  March 5, 2012
From Petals to Pixels: 
Rob Kesseler
Monday at 4:30 p.m. 
Gregg Hall (Porter Hall 100)
Rob Kesseler, professor 
of ceramic art and design at 
Central Saint Martins College 
of Art and Design in London, 
will lecture on The Art & Science of Messing Around with 
Plants. Kesseler has previously published Pollen: The 
Hidden Sexuality of Flowers, 
written with Madeline Harley, and Seeds: Time Capsules 
of Life, written with Wolfgang Stuppy. The lecture will 
cover the past 12 years of his 
artwork and the processes 
he used to create it. Kesseler 
has used digital photography, 
scanning electron micrography, and ink drawings to produce his works.
Orville M. Winsand 
Lecture
Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
Kresge Theater, 
College of Fine Arts
The Curator of Film at Tate 
Modern, Stuart Comer, will 
discuss his work for the Tate 
Collection, where he oversees 
?lm and video work. Comer 
also organizes a diverse array 
of screenings, performances, 
and events. He edited the 
book Film and Video Art, and 
has contributed essays to the 
books of numerous other artists. He has also spent time 
as a member of ?lm festival 
juries, including the 2010 
Venice Film Festival and the 
British Film Institutes 50th 
London Film Festival.
Ambassador A. Elizabeth 
Jones
Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. 
Steinberg Auditorium 
(Baker Hall A53)
Ambassador A. Elizabeth 
Jones will address developments in the Middle East, 
speci?cally the success of the 
U.S. in creating a diplomatic 
surge in Afghanistan. 
Jones has had extensive 
experience with the Foreign 
Service: Both of her parents 
were members, and she grew 
up attending local schools 
in Moscow and Berlin during the Cold War. Jones later 
became a member of the Foreign Service herself, serving 
as ambassador to Kazakhstan 
for three years in the late 
1990s, and later serving as 
Assistant Secretary of State 
for Europe and Eurasia to 
Colin Powell under the Bush 
administration.
The Dickson Prize Award 
Presentation and Lecture
Thursday at 4:30 p.m. 
McConomy Auditorium
The Dickson Prize in Science will be awarded to 
Marvin L. Cohen, a physics 
professor at the University 
of California, Berkeley, who 
will give a lecture at the ceremony. The Dickson Prize in 
science is awarded by Carnegie Mellon to the person in 
the United States regarded 
to have made the most signi?cant progress in science 
in the past year. It has a sister 
medal for excellence in medicine awarded by the University of Pittsburgh.
Cohen is one of the most 
cited authors of papers in 
the ?eld of physics and was 
a president of the American 
Physical Society. He currently 
leads a materials research 
group at UC Berkeley. 
Cohen will speak about 
the troubles that Albert Einstein had in his attempts to 
gain approval for his thesis 
research on condensed matter. 
Cohen will also address 
the possible implications of 
this background for recent 
work in nanoscience, photovoltaics, and superconductivity. Cohen will explain that 
while Einstein believed a theoretical explanation in these 
?elds might never be found, 
he may have been wrong.
Compiled by
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please e-mail The Tartan at news@thetartan.org 
or editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as 
the date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
Kiron Skinner has been 
named by Newt Gingrichs 
presidential campaign, Newt 
2012, as the National CoChair for the Women with 
Newt Coalition. 
Skinner is an associate 
professor of social and decision sciences as well as director of Carnegie Mellons 
Center for International Relations and Politics. This appointment is in addition to 
her position as foreign policy 
adviser to the campaign, 
which she has held since November of last year.
She will be joined on the 
board by Gingrichs wife, Callista Gingrich; his daughters, 
Jackie Gingrich Cushman 
and Kathy Gingrich Lubbers; 
former president of the National Federation of Republican Women, Sue Lynch; 
political commentator Jeri 
Thompson; prominent Republican Gay Hart Gaines; 
and Iowa State Representative Linda Upmeyer.
Skinner is joining the 
coalition just in time to be 
part of Newt 2012s buildup 
to Super Tuesday on March 
6, when many states will be 
having their primary elections. A candidate can gain 
more votes on this day than 
any other, making it a critical 
part of a bid for the chance to 
run for the presidency.
Skinner said in a university press release that she is 
a longtime supporter of Gingrich and is impressed by 
his understanding of issues 
of particular importance to 
women, including national 
security, the economy, and 
education.
Statistics and social science professor Stephen 
Fienberg has been awarded 
a research grant from the 
National Science Foundation (NSF) Census Bureau 
Research Network. The NSF 
awarded Fienberg the grant 
to fund his project, Data Integration, Online Data Collection and Privacy Protection for the 2020 Census.
Fienberg will research the 
costs and response rates of 
census investigation, as well 
as citizen privacy. He and 
his research team will conduct these experiments in an 
effort to increase response 
rates. 
In addition, the teams 
research will attempt to ?nd 
methods that will ensure 
citizens con?dentiality while 
still producing useful census 
information for the public 
and private sectors.
This grant program gives 
the Census Bureau and the 
entire federal statistical system the opportunity to leverage the expertise of academia 
to solve problems we face 
every day in delivering costef?cient statistics and information to the public, said 
Robert Groves, director of 
the Census Bureau, in a university press release. This 
research is an investment 
that will lead to cost savings, 
and we are excited about the 
possibilities for learning from 
our colleagues and for collaboration over the next ?ve 
years.
Compiled by
JUSTIN MCGOWN
MADELYN GLYMOUR
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
Gingrich appoints Skinner 
to co-chair womens boardCMU professor wins NSF grant for census research
FEATURE PHOTOKGB holds spring Capture the Flag with Stuff
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
47 / 34
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
60 / 46
THURSDAY
High / Low
           56 / 46 
FRIDAY
High / Low
46 / 32
SATURDAY
High / Low
40 / 33
Theft
Feb. 25, 2012
A Carnegie Mellon graduate student reported the theft 
of a new pedometer valued at 
$100 from his of?ce in Wean 
Hall between the hours of 
3:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. There 
was no sign of forced entry 
into the of?ce. This incident is 
under investigation.
Alcohol Amnesty
Feb. 26, 2012
At approximately 5 a.m., 
University Police were summoned to Morewood Gardens 
regarding an unconscious 
male student. It was determined that the male was intoxicated. No one on scene 
could provide any information on what the student had 
consumed. The student was 
transported to Presbyterian 
Hospital by Pittsburgh EMS. 
No citations were issued, as 
Carnegie Mellons Alcohol 
Amnesty program applied.
Vehicle Stop
Feb. 27, 2012
University Police initiated 
a motor vehicle stop of a motorcycle on Forbes Avenue for 
speeding. During the stop, the 
of?cer found that the driver 
was under suspension. The 
motorcycle was towed and the 
driver was cited.
Theft
Feb. 27, 2012
While on a routine patrol 
of Hamburg Hall, University Police were stopped by 
a Carnegie Mellon graduate 
student who wanted to ?le a 
theft report. The student left 
her wallet in the womens restroom in Hamburg Hall, and 
she was later noti?ed that it 
was turned in to the University Center information desk. 
When she retrieved her wallet, she found that all of her 
credit cards and ID were present, but about $100 in cash 
had been taken. This matter is 
under investigation.
Theft
Feb. 27, 2012
During routine patrol, a 
Carnegie Mellon security of?cer found that a vending 
machine on the ?rst ?oor of 
the Purnell Center had been 
damaged. The damage occurred between 9:30 p.m. 
and 9:50 p.m. It could not be 
determined if any money had 
been stolen from the machine. 
The vending company was 
contacted.
Suspicious Persons
Feb. 29, 2012
At approximately 6 a.m., 
University Police were called 
to Margaret Morrison Street 
in front of Margaret Morrison 
Plaza for a suspicious male 
who was possibly smoking 
marijuana. The of?cers did 
not see anyone ?tting the description. A pedestrian was 
stopped to see if he had seen 
the suspicious male. The pedestrian began acting oddly 
and gave false information as 
to why he was on campus. He 
was given a de?ant trespass 
warning.
Theft
March 1, 2012
University Police were 
called to take a report concerning a student who had left 
his backpack in Newell-Simon 
Hall. The student reported 
that when he returned to reclaim it, it was gone. His passport, student visa, and laptop 
were all missing. This case is 
still under investigation.
Fire Alarm
March 1, 2012
At 2:50 a.m., University 
Police and the Pittsburgh Fire 
Department responded to a 
Hunt Library ?re alarm. The 
elevator motor malfunctioned 
and was ?lling the elevator 
shaft and penthouse with 
smoke. The library was closed 
for approximately two hours 
following the incident.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Alan Vangpat/Senior Staff
Students assembled in Wean Hall and Doherty Hall to play KGBs spring semester game of Capture the Flag with Stuff on Friday night. Capture the 
Flag with Stuff combines traditional elements of capture the ?ag with additional tokens  separated into potions, belts, and wands  that give 
players special abilities. 
Statistically Speaking
With only one week left until spring break, many 
Carnegie Mellon students are pulling all-nighters to 
cram for exams and complete projects. When spring 
break rolls around, students will have a chance to catch 
up on some sleep. Until then, here are a few facts about 
sleep and sleep deprivation:
11 days
15 minutes
43.7
The percent of adults, aged 18 to 24, who reported having fallen 
asleep unintentionally at least once in the last month
33
The percent of U.S. adults who get fewer than seven 
hours of sleep per night
Compiled by 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Sources: cdc.gov, news.bbc.co.uk, 
seattletimes.nwsource.com, and 
online.wsj.com
Source: www.weather.com
The difference between the lengths of an 
average high school students sleep before and 
after Daylight Savings Time
The longest recorded time a person has gone without 
sleep

---------------------------------------------------

March 5, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Warner employees recount bomb threat experiences
was up-front in communicating their dissatisfaction with 
Flittner.
I respect them for trying 
to set a higher standard for 
future student government 
executive members, but overall I just wish they went about 
it in a different way, Sharma 
said via email. I guess this is 
a personal thing, but I am a 
confrontational person, so if 
I do not agree with the way 
someone is working then I 
will address them personally 
before I make it public.
According to the Student 
Body Constitution, a request 
for impeachment requires a 
three-fourths supermajority 
vote at a Student Senate or 
a Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) meeting, or a petition signed by 500 students. 
The unanimous Senate vote 
means that, unless Flittner 
resigns, impeachment hearings will be held at a joint 
meeting of Senate and GSA. 
The meeting will take place 
within three weeks, and a 
three-fourths supermajority 
vote from both Student Senate members and GSA members will result in Flittners 
removal from of?ce.
During the impeachment 
proceedings, Weiner and GSA 
President Jason Imbrogno, 
a Ph.D. student in economics, can appoint a member of 
the student body to ful?ll the 
presidents duties. Weiner and 
Imbrogno appointed Sharma 
to that position Thursday 
night, and she accepted. In 
the event that Flittner leaves 
of?ce through impeachment 
or resignation, Sharma can 
serve of?cially as student 
body president. Jake is not 
entirely gone, but essentially, 
his powers are suspended, 
Weiner said. From my knowledge of student government, 
[impeachment] has not previously happened.
Mark, re?ecting on the 
outcome for the remainder 
of the semester, said, I dont 
know if were going to see 
very visible things on campus 
this rest of the semester, but 
policy changes might happen to make everything run 
smoother next semester.
Despite the motion for impeachment, Sharma remains 
optimistic. I am not sure 
where we will go from here, 
she said via email, but I am 
looking forward to improving 
relations between Senate and 
student government executive members. Sharma plans 
to support Flittner during the 
impeachment process.
After reading Jon Marks 
explanation for Senates decision, it is clear that confusion 
and miscommunication exists 
[sic] since certain points are 
entirely unfounded, Flittner 
said in an email. If Senate 
Exec would have come to me 
personally about the matter 
I know that several of their 
points of contention would 
have become entirely mute 
[sic].
He urged students to go to 
cmusenate.org for updates.
Flittner faces impeachment 
Current ETC masters student Noah Alzayer is working 
on a pitch for a project that 
will utilize the new resources 
available to him through this 
partnership.
Our project that were 
talking about is making an 
ongoing motion capture data 
base similar to the graphics lab one, except we would 
make it a little more usable in 
practical ways, Alzayer said. 
On the average motion capture database you get something like two people dancing 
together or walking around, 
whereas wed be trying to 
get people walking in place, 
jumping, climbing things, 
throwing a punch. Alzayer 
said that he is pitching this 
project for the fall semester, 
and has spoken to Knight Vision founder James Knight regarding project space. Knight 
Vision was another key partner in the deal. They are notable for having worked on the 
visuals in James Camerons 
Avatar, and will provide motion capture and digital production services.
Knight told Essential Public Radio, Were very excited 
about coming to Pittsburgh, 
because of tax incentive, because of CMU, and because of 
the marvelous talent you have 
here in this town.
Alzayer said that ETC 
students are excited about 
the deal, and the technology which they will be able 
to work with. There are lots 
of cool new things about the 
system, and it eliminates a lot 
of the problems that come up 
with motion capture, Alzayer 
said. Its kind of exciting, the 
sort of new technology that 
well have access to. Its de?-
nitely inspired people to think 
about projects to do with it.
Editors note: Junior staffwriter 
Jennifer Coloma contributed to 
this article.
Class registration system to move from OLR to SIO
KECHUN MAO
Staffwriter
Online Registration (OLR), 
the site where students register for their courses every 
semester, will be replaced by 
new registration features on 
Student Information Online 
(SIO) this March.
In addition to planning 
schedules, students will be 
able to use SIO to view their 
assigned registration times; 
to register, add, drop, and 
switch courses; and to manage waitlist activity.
OLR was initiated in 1997, 
according to University Registrar John Papinchak. He said 
that one of the driving forces 
behind the changes to SIO 
was that, when Enrollment 
Services last updated SIO, a 
number of students suggested 
modernizing OLR by incorporating it into SIO.
Papinchak explained a few 
features that students can expect from the new SIO registration system. 
First, the basic functions of 
OLR such as section switch, 
course switch, and waitlist 
checking will be transferred 
to SIO. 
In addition, students will 
no longer need to type individual course numbers when 
registering. Instead, students 
will now be able to load 
planned schedules to the registration page and click the 
add button to register for 
each course.
What we are trying to do 
is to give students more information that supports the registration process, Papinchak 
said.
However, more sophisticated changes might happen 
in future semesters. A longterm goal, Papinachak said, 
is one-button registration, in 
which students would only 
need to click one button to 
register for all of their courses 
once they have their schedules planned.
Christine Gilchrist, an academic adviser in the Mellon 
College of Science, expressed 
the same wish. Gilchrist wrote 
in an email, An item on my 
wish list is a feature that will 
allow students to use their 
planned schedule to register 
for all courses at once and if 
there is a waitlist for a course, 
the student will immediately 
be recommended an alternate open section or required 
course that ?ts their schedule. 
This would necessitate a link 
between SIO and the students academic audit.
Students opinions about 
OLR and expectations of the 
new system are varied.
The OLR system is horribly inconvenient and terribly dif?cult to manage, Zac 
Vennard, a senior international relations major, said in 
an email. So Im glad were 
pitching it.
Junior ?nance major Alice 
Jun, however, takes a different attitude. 
I like OLR a lot. It is very 
functional and it is easy for 
me to use, she said. But it 
will be nice that we will move 
to SIO so that we can take care 
of everything on one website. 
Maybe if we have some automatic thing where it will automatically register the courses 
we plan. If they could do that 
for us, that would be pretty 
awesome.
the search went very well. He 
said that this was one of the 
smoothest searches he has 
ever been involved with.
We had cooperation with 
multiple agencies, and the 
cooperation with staff and 
students was amazing. We 
were able to take care of it 
in a very short time and get  
back to business, Scheimer 
said.
This bomb scare reminded Warner Hall employees 
of a past incident in which a 
waitlisted computer science 
student sent a package to admissions. One of the workers 
opened the package and saw 
a ?ashing light. [It was] a 
little bizarre for us, Vojtko 
said. Warner Hall took the 
incident seriously and evacuated to the University Center 
until the police arrived.
That was a quick kind of 
evacuation, Vojtko said. She 
said that the evacuation of 
Warner Hall, this time, was 
a very strange evacuation of a 
building if there was a bomb 
scare.
Warner Hall employees 
are split as to how well University Police and the Pittsburgh Bomb Squad handled 
the situation. However, they 
do agree that the police did a  
good job of keeping people 
calm.
I didnt see anybody hysterical or anything, so I think 
in some respect, the police 
didnt get us over-alarmed or 
anything. I think in that respect it was handled okay, 
Vojtko said.
We just want everybody 
to be observant of their surroundings, Scheimer said. 
And if they see anything suspicious, to report it.
Juan Fernandez/Staff
Studios come to Strip District
IMPEACH, from A1
THREAT, from A1
STUDIOS, from A1
Juan Fernandez/Staff
It is clear that confusion and 
miscommunication exist....
Jake Flittner
Student Body President 
Put your news hat on.
news@thetartan.org
Courtesy of katerha on Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  March 5, 2012
Improving animation: Details of facial expressions are key
LIGIA NISTOR
Junior Staffwriter
In the past 10 years, eight 
computer-animated ?lms 
have been deemed Best Animated Feature at the Academy Awards, according to the 
Academy Awards Database. 
Computer animation has become more realistic in the 
past decade, and some of the 
work contributing to those 
advances has been done here 
at Carnegie Mellon.
I am interested in the 
small motions of the face that 
can add a high degree of realism and improve the quality of animations, said Laura 
Trutoiu, a fourth-year Ph.D. 
student in the Robotics Institute. Her research focuses 
on computer graphics with 
an emphasis on facial animation. Her goal is to model 
the subtle facial movements 
that bring to life animated 
characters.
Trutoius research is interdisciplinary, and thus calls for 
collaboration from multiple 
?elds. Her Ph.D. adviser, Jessica Hodgins, is a professor 
in the Robotics Institute and 
the department of computer 
science. Trutoiu also collaborates with Jeffrey Cohn, 
a professor of psychology at 
the University of Pittsburgh, 
and Iain Matthews, a senior 
research scientist at Disney 
Research Pittsburgh.
Trutoiu holds a bachelor 
of arts in computer science 
from Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts. She 
started conducting research 
in a virtual reality lab at 
Mount Holyoke. Thats when 
I got hooked on research, she 
said. 
Movement has always been 
a common theme in Trutoius 
research. As an undergraduate summer intern at the University of Utah, she researched 
the illusion of self-motion: 
How to induce the feeling of 
movement in a person who is 
in a driving simulator.
At Carnegie Mellon, Trutoiu started looking at how 
Parkinsons disease patients 
moved with or without their 
deep brain stimulators turned 
on. These neurostimulators 
are devices implanted in the 
patients brains that control 
tremors. Trutoiu measured 
the patients movements, 
such as how much the spine 
swayed when the patients 
were walking, to quantify the 
improvements that the brain 
stimulator provided.
Later, Trutoius research 
shifted to focus on the generation of facial animations.
Trutoiu explained that the 
process of creating a computer-animated movie, such 
as Toy Story, has a few steps. 
First, a sketch artist draws 
snapshots of the main scenes 
in the movie. The characters 
are then modeled in a computer using three-dimensional 
representations. Textures and 
lighting are applied to the images, adding realism to the 
surfaces.
Then the animators come 
in. Trutoiu works with the 
animators, using her research 
to complement their work. 
She uses videos and images of 
humans to track and measure 
facial movements. She is then 
able to generate robust algorithms that predict how different parts in the face should 
be moving.
When we see a computergenerated animation, we as 
humans can pick up immediately if something is wrong, 
Trutoiu said, emphasizing 
the importance of accurately 
modeling facial expressions.
Currently, Trutoiu studies 
the movements associated 
with smiling. 
My categorization is between spontaneous and nonspontaneous smiles, she 
said. A spontaneous smile 
is triggered automatically, 
while a posed smile has a 
grin-like appearance. 
Whether a smile is perceived as genuine depends 
on how fast the corners of the 
lips move up, how long the 
smile is kept at the maximum 
amplitude, and how fast it is 
released.
Trutoiu uses data obtained 
from high-resolution videos of moving faces. These 
videos show 250 frames per 
second and appear in slow 
motion, as opposed to a normal video, which has 30 to 
60 frames per second. Appearance models then look 
at the face as a whole, check 
for localized video information, and observe shape and 
appearance changes, all the 
while taking copious measurements over time.
Over time, the computer 
builds a shape model and an 
appearance model, Trutoiu 
said. It uses those to ?gure 
out what is the expected position for that corner of the lip 
in the next frame.
The proper facial expressions are generated by the 
right position, velocity, and 
acceleration of speci?c  points 
on the face, producing a more 
realistic animation.
The ?nal goal of this 
research is to be able to tell 
animators or artists, when 
you have a sequence of someone smiling, this is how the 
cheeks should be raised, 
how the lips should actually 
stretch, Trutoiu said.
New exercise coach will help physical therapy patients
MICHAEL SETZER
Staffwriter
Using a program with a 
personalized user interface 
that tracks movement wirelessly and gives a score with 
feedback may soon become 
a reality for physical therapy 
patients. This isnt the newest 
Wii game, however. Instead, 
its the work of researchers 
from Carnegie Mellon and the 
University of Pittsburgh helping patients with knee osteoarthritis.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a 
disease that affects millions 
of people, especially among 
older generations. According 
to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, nearly 
one in two people will develop 
some form of OA in their lifetimes. 
Portia Taylor, a Ph.D. student in the department of biomedical engineering, is leading the research for a digital 
exercise coach designed to 
help patients with OA maximize their physical therapy 
exercises and avoid injury. She 
presented her research at the 
2012 International Consumer 
Electronics Show.
According to Taylor, there 
is a de?nite need for the exercise coach.
A majority of patients are 
just sent home with paper instructions and pictures, and 
they self-report back to the 
therapist, she said. This can 
lead to patients performing 
exercises wrong and physical 
therapists questioning the validity of their patients reports.
To use the digital exercise 
coach, the patient straps on 
a soft, brace-like pad to their 
knee and completes his or her 
exercises as normal. The sensors in the padding have accelerometers and gyroscopes that 
track the patients movement. 
The sensors then wirelessly 
connect to the computer and 
give feedback to the patient 
regarding how accurately the 
exercises were performed.
To give accurate feedback, 
the computer refers to stored 
information on how to correctly perform an exercise 
and how to ?x incorrect procedures. The computer gives 
speci?c instructions to the patients immediately after they 
complete the exercise.
It will say something like, 
you need to keep your torso 
forward; youre at a 45-degree 
angle, you need to be at 60, 
Taylor said.
To make it all work, Taylor 
needed the help of a University 
of Pittsburgh Ph.D. student 
in physical therapy, Gustavo 
Almeida, who watched video 
after video of people doing 
exercises and documented the 
mistakes they were making. 
From that, we get this big 
set of errors that were looking for, and the idea is to train 
the system to detect those errors, Taylor said. Almeida 
then helped Taylor implement 
suggestions that the exercise 
coach would make to help the 
patient improve. 
Although Taylor and Almeida were able to program 
the system with solutions to 
common exercise mistakes, it 
was impossible to record every way a patient could perform the exercise incorrectly. 
To solve this problem, Taylor 
implemented machine learning. With this programming, 
the machine is able to learn 
the different ways to solve an 
incorrect exercise as it is in 
use.
If a new error comes in 
that is slightly different than 
all the rest its seen ... it knows 
how to correct it, Taylor said. 
The system says, OK, Ill correct this and make note of the 
what the error was, so this 
becomes error number 156 or 
whatever.
In addition to giving feedback, the computer has a database that stores all of the 
information from the patients 
exercises. Physical therapists 
can access this information 
at any time, allowing them to 
keep track of their patients 
even after theyve left the 
hospital. The program can 
also monitor declines in exercise performance and send 
noti?cations to physical therapists.
There is currently nothing like the digital exercise 
coach available in America. 
Although there are recreational games that use similar 
sensors, Taylor said that there 
is no such system that aids in 
physical therapy exercises.
I can play my Xbox Kinect and then stop after three 
weeks, and presumably nothing would happen to me. But 
[my motion] doesnt depend 
on it, Taylor said. Furthermore, the exercise coach is 
aimed to be more precise in 
movement tracking and feedback than typical games.
The product isnt available 
for use yet, as it is still in the 
testing phases. However, Taylor has plans to create a startup that would serve to aid testing and get the product into 
the marketplace. She hopes 
to have the product available 
within ?ve years. To many patients, the product may be a 
big help in their exercises.
For Taylor, the research 
also has a personal element.
Itll help a lot of people. I 
played soccer and danced all 
my life, so Im predisposed to 
OA, Taylor said. Its really 
fun developing something 
that Im going to probably 
need, my family will probably need, my friends will 
probably need. Its just ... far 
reaching.
Jennifer Coloma/Staff
Portia Taylor, a Ph.D. student in the department of biomedical engineering, has worked to develop an exercise 
coach that gives physical therapy patients with osteoarthritis feedback and suggestions on their exercises.  
It will say 
something like, 
you need to 
keep your torso 
forward; youre 
at a 45-degree 
angle, you need 
to be at 60.
Portia Taylor
Ph.D. student
When we see 
a computergenerated 
animation, 
we as humans 
can pick up 
immediately if 
something is 
wrong.
Laura Trutoiu
Ph.D. student

---------------------------------------------------

NIHARIKA SINGH
Staffwriter
The much-dreaded hangover, which usually follows 
heavy alcohol consumption 
and yields nausea or dizziness, is referred to in various 
parts of the world as carpenter in forehead, made of rubber, or hair ache, according to The Independent News. 
Although the possibility of a 
hangover doesnt usually stop 
people from going out and enjoying themselves when alcohol is involved, most drinkers 
probably wouldnt complain 
if someone were to come up 
with a hangover cure.
However, the chances of a 
cure being invented soon are 
slim. There are several ethical 
issues involved in testing any 
such cure on humans, which 
makes it very hard for anyone 
to come up with a hangovercuring drug. For now, the best 
way to suffer less from hangovers is to learn more about 
them.
One way to lessen the impact of a hangover is to drink 
less, especially if you are 
more susceptible to them. 
According to IMPACT Magazine, women usually fall into 
this category because they 
produce glutathione, the enzyme responsible for clearing 
the body of alcohols toxins, 
in lesser quantities and more 
slowly than men do. Women 
also tend to weigh less and 
have more body fat than men, 
which means more alcohol 
gets into their bloodstream in 
a shorter amount of time.
The Mayo Clinic, a medical 
practice and research group 
focused on specialized health 
care, says that people with a 
family history of alcoholism, 
or those who drink while they 
are hungry or sleep deprived, 
are more strongly affected by 
alcohol than others. In addition, people who do not regularly consume large amounts 
of alcohol tend to be more susceptible to its effects.
But what is it about alcohol that leads to hangovers? It 
turns out that alcohol acts in 
several ways to create discomfort in the human body.
Headaches from hangovers 
are usually the result of dehydration. Alcohol dehydrates 
the body by causing it to produce more urine  in fact, 
alcohol can cause the body to 
lose nearly four times the volume of liquids it gains by consuming alcohol. This dehydration is responsible for the dry 
mouth that is one of the classic symptoms of a hangover. 
In addition, the brain shrinks 
slightly due to the lack of hydration, causing headaches.
Alcohol also adds toxins 
to the body that can build up 
and cause headaches, even 
vomiting. Certain kinds of alcohols, usually those darker 
in color, contain compounds 
called congeners used to add 
color and ?avor. Unfortunately, these compounds are also 
known to cause severe hangovers.
The fatigue associated with 
a hangover is a direct result of 
alcohol confusing the bodys 
internal clock. Alcohol makes 
people feel sleepy by changing 
the levels of the chemicals in 
their bodies that are responsible for keeping them alert. The 
body overcompensates when 
alcohol leaves it, and produces 
more stimulants than necessary, leading to poor sleeping 
patterns and ultimately fatigue.
The human body may undergo withdrawal when the 
effects of alcohol start to wear 
off, causing people to feel 
shaky or dizzy from hangovers. Many people also like to 
mix their alcohol with sugary 
drinks, which only makes the 
withdrawal effect worse as the 
body comes off its sugar high 
at the same time the alcohol 
starts to wear off.
Some people like to consume alcohol while also consuming other drugs, such as 
nicotine. This can cause the 
alcohol to act in a more potent way and usually results in 
the drinker suffering a more 
severe hangover. Alcohol can 
also irritate the stomach lining; this can lead to nausea 
and pain.
Many urban legends exist 
about foods (like bacon sandwiches) that can eliminate all 
hangover symptoms, but only 
a few methods are recommended by experts as sure?re 
ways to lessen their severity. 
Not consuming alcohol on an 
empty stomach, staying hydrated, taking multivitamins, 
and getting enough rest are 
all ways to make the morning 
after a night of heavy drinking 
more bearable.
March 5, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
SCITECH BRIEFS
Arti?cial womb lets scientists observe embryonic growth
A team of researchers at the 
University of Nottingham in 
the United Kingdom have created a new device made from 
soft polymers that mimics 
the mammalian uterus. With 
this technology, researchers 
are now able to continuously 
observe the growth of embryonic cells outside of the womb 
through to the eighth day of 
development, a huge improvement from the previous fourday limit that forced scientists 
to return these cells back to 
the mothers womb. 
Because of this technology, scientists are able to directly observe the continuing 
changes in embryos after four 
days, including the crucial 
formation of the head. This 
breakthrough is part of a larger effort at the university to 
learn how the development of 
the human embryo can teach 
researchers methods for repairing the human body.
Source: Science Daily 
Memory chip uses light, not electricity, to store data
Researchers at a Japanese 
telecom company have built 
an optical random access 
memory (o-RAM) chip that 
uses light, rather than electricity, to store data. Each memory cell in the o-RAM is a nanoscale light-capturing crystal 
capable of channeling light 
in very small spaces. Varying 
the intensity of light through 
the chip allows each crystal 
to switch between transparent 
and opaque states, modeling 
zeroes and ones. 
While the technology is 
still a ways off from use in 
conventional desktop machines, researchers are hoping 
that it can help speed up the 
sluggish performance of internet switches that manage traf?c between high-volume servers, since light travels much 
faster than electric signals.
Source: Wired magazine
NASA falls victim to numerous cyber-attacks   
NASA was the victim of 47 
sophisticated cyber-attacks 
in 2011, according to a report the agency released last 
week. These attacks have allowed hackers to gain unauthorized access to employee 
credentials, the control systems of NASAs Jet Propulsion 
Laboratory, and the security codes used to operate the 
International Space Station, 
among other things. In total, 
the agency reported 5,408 
incidents that resulted in 
the installation of malicious 
software on or unauthorized 
access to its systems in both 
2010 and 2011. 
These developments come 
at an unfortunate time for 
NASA, as Americans continue 
to assess the roles the expensive agency should or should 
not play in future explorations 
of the ?nal frontier.
Source: CNN 
Despite mid-age slump, elderly people sleep best
A telephone survey of more 
than 150,000 adults suggested 
that, aside from a slight decline during a persons 40s, 
sleep quality on the whole actually gets better with age. The 
study, conducted by researchers at the University of Pennsylvanias Center for Sleep and 
Circadian Neurobiology, focused on asking a large sample 
of randomly selected people 
questions about the quality of their sleep. Since these 
responses were mostly the 
opinions of the participants 
involved, researcher Michael 
Grandner offered a possible 
explanation for the data.
Even if sleep among older 
Americans is actually worse 
than in younger adults, feelings about [sleep quality] still 
improve with age, he said.
Source: BBC
Jurassic ?eas eight times larger than modern ?eas
A fossil of a prehistoric ?ea 
from the Jurassic era was recently uncovered in China. At 
20.6 millimeters (nearly one 
inch), the 165-million-yearold ?ea was eight times bigger than the modern ?ea, and 
still manages to dwarf even 
the largest living ?ea, which 
comes in at only 12.6 millimeters. These prehistoric ?eas 
also had vicious, straw-like 
mouths with serrated edges 
 perfect for biting into the 
hides of the dinosaurs they 
lived on. 
It really appears as though 
they were specialized for working their way into some heavy 
hides, such as those on dinasaurs, Michael Engel, a coauthor of the study, said in an 
interview with New Scientist. 
Unlike modern ?eas, however, 
the prehistoric ?ea had poorly 
developed legs, and thus was 
incapable of jumping.
Source: New Scientist, 
International Business Times
Space tourism company tests new spaceship
Virgin Galactic, a space 
tourism company under the 
Virgin Group corporation, 
is aiming to test ?y its new 
SpaceShipTwo spacecraft this 
year. Commercial suborbital 
passenger service will give 
riders a few minutes, at an 
altitude of about 68 miles, to 
experience zero gravity and 
view the Earth set against the 
backdrop of outer space. The 
service could commence as 
soon as next year, company 
of?cials said last week. Nearly 
500 customers have signed up 
for these $200,000 rides in the 
six-passenger, two-pilot ship. 
We would like to be the 
?rst to do this, but were not in 
a race with anyone, chief test 
pilot David Mackay said. This 
is not a Cold War-era space 
race.
Source: Reuters
Compiled by
BENJAMIN MADUEME
HOW THINGS WORKDehydration, buildup of toxins contribute to hangovers
Samantha Ward/Staff
The brain 
shrinks slightly 
due to the lack 
of hydration, 
causing 
headaches.

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
CHRISTA HESTER *
Co-Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
WILL PENMAN
Staffwriter
PATRICK GAGE KELLEY *
Co-Publisher 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
KATIE CHIRONIS *
Online Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SARAH ZAKRAJSEK
Personnel Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
COURTNEY WITTEKIND *
Contributing Editor
GREG HANNEMAN
Contributing Editor
MARICEL PAZ
Contributing Editor
CELIA LUDWINSKI
Contributing Editor
STACEY CHIN
Contributing Editor
MICHAEL KAHN
Contributing Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Asst. Pillbox Editor
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  March 5, 2012
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stephanie Guerdan, Jackson 
Lane, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Rachel Bullen, Connie Chan, Hannah 
Dellabella, Sage Po, Michael Setzer, Stephanie 
Stern, Laura Stiles
LAYOUT
Jennifer Coloma
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
ERIN YANACEK
Junior Staffwriter
Its time to go. You are seven 
years old, its 4:25 p.m. on a Tuesday, and you are begrudgingly tying your shoe laces as your mom 
herds you out the door. This can 
only mean one thing: piano lessons. 
You arrive and plunk through your 
scales for half an hour. When the 
torture is complete, mom bundles 
you up and takes you away, only to 
start the weekly cycle once again.
By now, we have matured far 
beyond mandatory music lessons  
no more itchy formal wear or ogling 
grandparents to worry about. We 
can choose how to spend our time 
 and if we choose to involve ourselves in classical music, there are 
many bene?ts we can gain.
So, why choose classical music? 
Why not get our music ?x from Guitar Hero and Britney Spears? The 
difference between these popular 
musical outlets and classical music can seem elusive. However, as 
a classical musician, I like to think 
that there is something intrinsically 
valuable in the tradition.
Of course Spears has a certain 
appeal, but its doubtful that her lyrics and melodies communicate the 
indescribable beauty and pain of the 
human condition that classical music does. So why does Spears song 
I Wanna Go have over 80 million 
hits on YouTube, while Ludwig Van 
Beethovens most popular composition, Symphony No. 9, has less 
than 18 million?
The answer is often that popular 
music is more easily digestible. Todays fast-paced age of quick grati?cation does not prepare us well to 
reap the bene?ts of the classics.
For example, I Wanna Go is 
3 1/2 minutes long. A performance 
of Beethovens Ninth Symphony 
lasts over an hour. Unless an audience member wants an expensive 
nap, he or she will need an apt attention span for the Beethoven.
Once listeners learn to appreciate 
classical works, they will be richly 
rewarded. Beethovens music is truly 
ingenious in its complexity, and the 
?gurative pictures that it paints in 
the mind of attentive listeners have 
the potential to inspire a wiser, more 
cultured, and more artistic life.
Mom was right, as usual. 
Whether its by performing or by attending concerts, eat your spinach 
and listen to your classical music. Its 
good for you.
Like spinach, classical music builds muscles
MATT MASTRICOVA
The diagnosis of autism has 
evolved from a rare, unknown subset of schizophrenia into a spectrum 
of learning disorders, which include 
social and behavioral impairments. 
These disorders have captured the 
attention of nearly every demographic in the United States; however, this does not mean that the 
implications of autism diagnoses are 
well understood.
While programs such as 60 Minutes and 20/20 have done excellent 
jobs at raising awareness of the lives 
of children with severe autism, the 
almost exclusive media coverage on 
those individuals has resulted in the 
obfuscation of children with highfunctioning autism and adults with 
autism.
It is impossible to ignore the presence of the group Autism Speaks. 
While the group advocates autism 
awareness, its strategy of doing so is 
damaging to individuals with autism 
and their relatives. Instead of educating the public on autism, Autism 
Speaks depicts autism as a disease 
that destroys families and must be 
cured. Its cold-hearted view on autism was depicted best in the video 
Autism Every Day, which features 
a mother talking about how she had 
once considered killing both herself 
and her autistic daughter due to the 
challenges of raising a child with 
autism, all the while in front of said 
daughter.
It is no wonder, then, that there is 
still a portion of the population that 
believes individuals with autism are 
incapable of interacting with other 
people. It is impossible to deny that 
both living with autism and raising 
a child with autism are emotionally 
and ?nancially taxing. However, to 
deny the nature of autism would be 
an immense disservice to the autistic community.
While there are some people 
with autism who will never be able 
to speak or use a bathroom, there 
are also some who attend school 
and are merely seen as quirky. 
There are probably many students 
in the Carnegie Mellon community 
who have been diagnosed with an 
autism spectrum disorder. Due to 
the behavioral impairments that 
autism causes, individuals with 
high-functioning autism are often 
misunderstood and generally unaccepted by their peers. The general 
absence of their portrayal in the media does not assist the dif?culties 
they have interacting with a community of peers.
This plurality should be more 
emphasized in our society. If children are exposed to information 
about autism from a young age, 
whether it is in school, books, television, or simply through talking with 
their parents, individuals with highfunctioning autism will have an easier time integrating into society and 
perhaps have an easier time ?nding 
success in industry. A greater media 
presence will also assure children 
with autism that they are not alone 
in their daily struggles, and perhaps 
even provide them with role models 
to look up to.
March is Autism Awareness 
Month. Use this opportunity to educate yourself and your peers about 
the reality of autism  then perhaps 
some day a designated month for autism awareness will not be needed.
Matt Mastricova (mmastric@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Public needs to realize autism has two faces
Why choose 
classical music? 
Why not get our ?x 
from Guitar Hero?
Undergraduate Student Senate 
unanimously voted to start the impeachment process against Student 
Body President Jake Flittner last 
Thursday. Based on the lack of initiatives and projects coming out of the 
executive branch, we support this 
decision.
According to Senates of?cial 
blog, the main reason for the move 
to impeach was that Flittner was 
not ful?lling his presidential duties as outlined in the Student Body 
Constitution. 
According to senate members, he 
has failed to regularly attend Senate, Graduate Student Assembly 
(GSA), and Faculty Senate meetings. Flittner has also failed to hold 
and advertise monthly of?ce hours, 
attend and chair Student Government Executive Committee and 
Board of Directors meetings, and facilitate representation of the student 
body throughout Carnegie Mellons 
Pittsburgh campus.
Flittner has not even convened 
his cabinet this semester and was absent from the meeting at which Senate voted to begin the impeachment 
process.
When anyone is in a leadership role, especially one as large as 
the student body president, he or 
she must take that role seriously. A 
leader must have the time and vision to lead, recognizing when help 
from others is needed to carry out 
his visions. Its understandable that 
Flittner might be busy; for most 
Carnegie Mellon students, busy is a 
way of life. 
But that is why the president has 
an entire cabinet of carefully selected 
people to support and carry out his 
visions. That is why the president 
has Student Senate, faculty members, advisers, GSA, and all the other 
branches of student government to 
collaborate with and draw resources 
from.
The fact that Flittner has not 
used any of these resources over 
the course of his term is shocking. 
His campaign promises from 2011 
remain unful?lled and leave us uninspired. Where is the Cultural Diversity Honors Program promised to 
us during his campaign? Where are 
the Friday Frenzies that campus 
eagerly awaited?
Campaign promises to the campus community have been forgotten, 
and promises to Student Senate to 
increase transparency and communication between branches of government have also been ignored. 
Flittners glaring lack of action has 
forced this impeachment process. 
Now, perhaps positive changes can 
be made and student government 
can get back on track.
We agree with Jeannette Wing, 
head of Carnegie Mellons computer 
science department, in regard to her 
article in the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, which calls for a national priority to be put on teaching computer 
science. We should start teaching the 
foundations and thinking patterns 
of computer programming in high 
school, middle school, and even elementary school.
Teaching the foundations of programming early is a good way to 
create both jobs and technologically 
savvy citizens. Programming teaches 
a person to think algorithmically and 
to apply that thinking in real-world 
situations. These include everything 
from ?nding all of the divisors of a 
number to creating a language processing system like Apples Siri.
The nature of computational and 
algorithmic thinking  two cornerstones of programming  allows it 
to be easily integrated into school 
curricula. At some level, children 
already think computationally and 
algorithmically. If a child has a particular way of sorting and putting 
away Legos so they can be found 
more easily, that child is using computational thinking. Schools teach 
this sort of thinking on a basic level, 
but by integrating it even more into 
lesson plans, math problem sets, and 
activities, students can gain even 
greater ?exibility and con?dence in 
developing new solutions to emerging social problems.
Schools could implement changes to curricula simply by gearing 
more lessons towards computational 
thinking. Teachers could present 
problems to students (like reordering the schools lunch line to maximize ef?ciency, or developing a 
system to sort the tallest to shortest 
student in class) to bolster thinking 
processes.
As our society becomes increasingly reliant on computing and programming, our schools should take 
steps to prepare students for the 
digital age.
Schools should teach computational thinking earlier
Senate, GSA should remove SBP Flittner from of?ce
History should be de?ned by historians, not by laws
As of this writing, the Armenian 
Genocide page on Wikipedia has 
been revised 7,356 times in the last 
10 years. Most of those edits concern 
the use of the term genocide. The 
constant revisions this Wikipedia 
page has undergone are a symptom 
of larger problems in Europe: the de?ning of history through law.
According to The New York Times, 
the French Constitutional Council 
struck down a law last Tuesday that 
would have made it a crime to deny 
the Armenian genocide (191523). 
The bill was passed by the French 
Senate and was supported by President Nicolas Sarkozy, who stated 
that he wanted to see the bill resubmitted with revised language.
The Turkish government accused French lawmakers of racism 
and insisted that the writing of history was well beyond the bounds 
of their mandate, according to the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. The Turkish 
government has long maintained 
that the Armenian genocide was not 
a genocide at all, and that any statement to the contrary is an affront to 
the Turkish identity.
France indeed overstepped its 
boundaries. But ironically, the Turkish government has its own law that 
seems to write history beyond their 
mandate. The public af?rmation of 
the Armenian genocide is an of?cial 
crime in Turkey.
Both the French and Turkish governments fail to realize that passing 
laws criminalizing an opinion of history is wrong and dangerous. The 
introduction of this bill wasnt so 
much about nailing down one true 
version of history, or about bettering 
the world through the recognition of 
a horri?c event. 
This bill could have been a political move by Sarkozy to gain the vote 
of the 500,000 French citizens that 
have Armenian roots.
Laws like the bill struck down in 
France and the law in effect in Turkey 
do nothing more than control populations and keep people in power.
Juan Fernandez/Staff

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
March 5, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Compiled by Jonathan Carreon and Jennifer Coloma
Spring break is nearly upon us. So we asked,
What are your plans for break?
With half the semester gone, 
I wanted to check in on behalf of 
Senate to let you know where we 
stand on our projects and give 
some updates for the rest of the 
way.
The ?rst topic Id like to address 
is the Port Authority cuts. We have 
been very active in ?ghting against 
these cuts, including generating 
the site stoppatcuts.com, which 
currently has over 1,500 signatures. We have publicized the site 
through tabling, appearances at 
campus events, and via the internet. We will continue to make sure 
CMUs voice is heard and will be 
taking a lobbying trip to Harrisburg later this month.
In my previous update I mentioned several projects; here are 
updates. In tandem with the University Center staff, we will be adding a new air hockey table as well 
as speakers in the Scotland Yard 
game room. The staffs at Tazza 
DOro and Gates have agreed to 
let us implement a table-sharing 
system there, which will help with 
crowding issues. In terms of new 
initiatives, we have formed a committee that addresses biking issues 
on campus, and we are working 
collaboratively with several other 
groups to install new bike racks. 
We are launching a T-shirt design 
contest for a student to design 
a CMU shirt that we will sell at a 
cheap rate to the student body. We 
are beginning to poster and create 
online publicity for this contest.
Our Finance Committee continues to give money to many worthy 
causes including Bhangra, TEDx, 
and Carnival. We funded AB to 
put speakers in Kirr Commons for 
Late Nights, something that will 
save groups $65 per event once 
installed. We budgeted to provide 
funding in the future for CollegiateLink, which is an organization management platform that 
has great potential to empower 
student groups and connect campus better than ever before.
The ?nal area I will touch on 
is PR. I feel we have made large 
strides in this area. We have tabled 
nearly every Friday this semester, spreading awareness about 
our initiatives and our work with 
the Port Authority cuts. Our blog 
cmusenate.org has served as a 
more effective vehicle for sharing 
information, but we still need it to 
reach a larger audience. We have 
built a stronger foundation than 
in years past, and there is a good 
basis for our image to grow. That 
being said, we need to be diligent 
in continuing to spread our name, 
especially with elections season 
around the corner.
There are several more initiatives than these, which I encourage you to follow at cmusenate.
org. We welcome your feedback 
and criticisms as always.
Will Weiner
Student Senate Chair
To the Editors of The Tartan,
As a speaker at the event, I appreciated your coverage of last 
weeks Veritas Forum on the 
meaning of work. One of the 
many reasons why I love Carnegie 
Mellon is our diversity, and our 
willingness to embrace that diversity through open, respectful dialog. I was happy to see The Tartan 
covering and participating in that 
dialog.
However, I wanted to clarify 
one point in The Tartans coverage of the event. Your story said 
that I believe all humans already 
have Gods acceptance. This is 
not entirely accurate. In my opening statement (which is available 
online), I was trying to say that I 
believe that all humans have received Gods offer of acceptance 
through Jesus death. However, I 
also believe that God gives each of 
us the dignity of choosing whether 
to accept this offer; and thus while 
Gods acceptance is freely offered, 
it must also be voluntarily received.
This distinction is important to 
me because Id hate to leave your 
readers with the false impression 
that individual choice has no role 
to play in the Christian faith.
Professor Michael D. Smith 
mds@cmu.edu
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Individuals  can accept Gods offerJACKSON LANE
Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum has said some 
pretty controversial things, like 
calling President Barack Obama a 
snob for wanting everybody in 
America to go to college.
Oh, I understand why he wants 
you to go to college. He wants to remake you in his image, Santorum 
said at an appearance in Michigan. 
I want to create jobs so people can 
remake their children into their image, not his.
My gut-reaction rebuttal is that 
going to college will dramatically increase a persons chances of ?nding a 
job, but there are several trends that 
show this is no longer the case.
Take the rising trend of boomerang kids, or recent college graduates who live with their parents because they couldnt ?nd suf?cient 
employment to afford their own 
places. According to a 2010 study by 
Monster.com, 52 percent of recent 
college graduates are living with 
their parents, in comparison to 40 
percent from the previous year.
This shows that unemployment 
among college graduates is also 
high, which is at 8.9 percent according to a recent report published by 
Georgetown Universitys Center on 
Education and the Workforce.
Do these career prospects justify 
the enormous time commitments 
and costs of a college degree?
At some point, probably not. As 
much as we celebrate the learning 
and maturing that happens during 
college, most of us choose to take on 
colleges costly burden primarily because we believe we will recoup the 
expenses through better career prospects. But if those better prospects 
arent there, then college might not 
be worth it.
However, despite discouraging indicators like boomerang kids 
and high unemployment rates after 
graduation, the economic downturn has hit those without college 
degrees even harder. According to 
the Georgetown report, recent high 
school graduates face a whopping 
22.9 percent unemployment rate.
Even after a few years in the 
workforce, there is still a signi?cant 
difference between the unemployment rates of college and high school 
graduates. That difference has only 
become more pronounced since the 
economic downturn, increasing from 
2.4 percent in 2007 to 5.1 percent in 
2010, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Although these statistics might 
not change the fact that there are 
still thousands of boomerang kids 
who cant ?nd work, the economy 
does not affect the quality of their 
education.
While they may not realize these 
bene?ts until there is a recovery, 
employers in almost all industries, 
which prefer applicants, within a 
particular age group, with advanced 
degrees in education regardless of 
time spent unemployed.
Currently, there are positive signs 
of recovery, such as higher stock and 
production indices, and its likely 
that employers will begin hiring 
again soon. When they do, the boomerang kids will be the ?rst of their 
age group to reap the bene?ts.
Jackson Lane (jlane@cmu.edu) is a 
senior staffwriter for The Tartan.
College degree outweighs costs
CELIA LUDWINSKI
According to the 2009 State Pro?le Report by the College Board, the 
average student at a four-year public university pays $8,244 in tuition, 
while at a private university, the average student pays $28,500. Parental 
support and ?nancial aid help a lot 
but do not cover everything, leaving 
loans to ?ll in the gap. According to 
FinAid.org, debt from student loans 
is at $983 billion and counting.
Theres no doubt about it: College 
is expensive. And yet so many people 
throw money at a college education 
without a second thought. Every college student should feel obligated to 
act responsibly when choosing to enter into so much debt.
At Carnegie Mellon, the Undergraduate Admissions website states 
that the average ?nancial aid package 
is $33,679, with the average amount 
awarded in grants as $23,083. If 
loans make up the difference, then 
the average student will be assuming 
$10,596 in debt per year.
Granted, we all know we have to 
spend money to make money, and 
knowledge is a great investment. 
Isnt the cost of tuition justi?ed? The 
education we gain will give us the 
best quali?cations to get a decent job 
and live the American dream. And if 
we dont go to college, we face the social stigma against the uneducated. 
So we go to college because its the 
obvious next step in our future: Its a 
rite of passage.
But a huge number of students 
dont think about what they are investing in. They enter into higher 
education unclear about what career 
they are pursuing, what education 
they want to receive, and how they 
are going to apply their skills to advancing along their career path. They 
dont think about the important longterm question: How will this education get them a job?
Instead, these students enter college and begin acquiring debt in 
order to explore their options. This 
path often involves entering college immediately after exiting high 
school, milling around as undecided 
majors until they make a decision 
a year or two later about what they 
want to do with their lives. In fact, 
in another report, the College Board 
found that an undecided major was 
the ninth most common major of 
graduating high school seniors from 
the list of 38 majors provided, illustrating that there are still a lot of 
students who dont think about what 
they are investing in.
Meanwhile, these students are 
acquiring massive debt. Without a 
clear idea of what they are spending money on and how it will bene?t 
them in the long run, it is dif?cult to 
justify the debt they are acquiring. 
Without a clear career path, it is hard 
to know that the college they are attending will have the right program 
to train them for their eventual job. It 
is worrisome that these students are 
acquiring debt despite these issues.
Their behavior re?ects the ?nancial irresponsibility that is seen all 
over the country and the ?nancial 
irresponsibility that led to the real estate collapse, and subsequent corporate and individual bankruptcy over 
the last few years. It is a simple fact 
that if you try to consume more money than you can create, you will end 
up burdening the country and the 
economy. Similar to real estate, college debt should be treated responsibly  keeping students futures and 
the nations economy in mind.
But the accumulation of student 
debt is not even the main concern. 
What is most concerning is that 
students are frivolously spending 
money with no clear concept of its 
importance. Entering into college as 
an undeclared major is a thoughtless 
choice that hurts both the nations 
economy and the students themselves. Students should do more research and prepare a career path to 
develop ?nancial responsibility.
Celia Ludwinski (cludwins@) is a contributing editor for The Tartan.
Undeclared major promotes ?nancial irresponsibility
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
LEADERSHIP PERSPECTIVESStudent Senate continues projects
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Akwasi Brefo
Economics 
Sophomore
Going on a service trip to Costa 
Rico.
Deanna Bucci
Chemical Engineering
Sophomore
Im doing Alternative Spring 
Break in Pittsburgh.
Aaron Reyes
CIT Undecided
First-year
Skiing for the first time.
Aashna Jindal
Math 
First-year
Going to Miami with family, then 
N.J.
Abhi Kelkar
CIT Undecided 
First-year
Going home to Cali and hanging 
out with friends.

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  March 5, 2012
FEATURE PHOTOQuidditch team splits home games
Nicole Hamilton/Comics Editor
The Carnegie Mellon Marauders take the ?eld at the start of the second of two games Sunday against the Edinboro University Flying Scots. The 
unof?cial match ended in a draw, with the Marauders defeating the Flying Scots 160140 in game one and the Flying Scots claiming victory in game 
two 7030. The second game was cut short due to a double booking on the intramural ?eld.
SPORTS COMMENTARYBrauns successful appeal still hurts
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
The Carnegie Mellon 
track and ?eld team completed its indoor season with the 
University Athletic Association (UAA) Indoor Championships hosted by New York 
University. The event was 
held at NYU Feb. 2526.
The men ?nished the conference tied for second place; 
the womens team ?nished 
sixth.
Were having a great season, said junior Benjamin 
Nealy. The young guys are 
far exceeding initial expectations, and the seasoned veterans are providing great leadership, which will translate to 
great things for the rest of the 
indoor and outdoor season.
One of the most notable 
performances at UAAs was 
from ?rst-year Thomas Vandenberg, who set a school 
record of 1:53.71 in the 
800-meter race. Vandenberg 
has been running hot all season, starting with the ?rst 
meet of the season in Marietta, Ohio, where he won the 
800-meter race with a time of 
1:59.52.
Vandenberg cut over two 
seconds off his time a week 
later, although he ?nished in 
second place. In the ?nals at 
NYU, Vandenberg was beat 
for the 800-meter title by 
sophomore teammate Mike 
Standish, who took ?rst with 
a time of 1:57.21; Vandenberg took fourth place with a 
time of 1:57.66.
Senior Rob Morhard has 
also been performing consistently well. He started 
his season off strong with 
a ?rst-place ?nish in the 
3,000-meter run with a time 
of 9:04.70. Morhard has 
also been performing well 
in relays. While teamed with 
Nealy, ?rst-year Douglas 
OConnell, and Standish, the 
team won the 4x800-meter 
relay at the seasons second 
meet in Edinboro, Pa. This 
past weekend, Morhard recorded a season-best mile 
with a time of 4:22.14.
Junior Noel Titus ended 
the season with a ?fth-place 
?nish in the 200-meter dash 
(23.10 seconds) and a sixthplace ?nish in the 60-meter 
dash (7.26 seconds).
On the womens team, 
sophomore Jackie Guevel 
had a ?rst-place ?nish at Kent 
State University last month 
in the 300-meter hurdles, 
recording a time of 45.96 seconds. Earlier this season at 
the Bucknell Winter Classic, 
Guevel broke two school records in the 60-meter hurdles 
and dash with times of 8.85 
seconds and 7.92 seconds, 
respectively. Guevel wrapped 
up her season by breaking 
yet another a school record 
in the 60-meter hurdles with 
a time of 8.77 seconds. She 
also achieved All-UAA honors 
in the 60-meter dash with a 
time of 7.94 seconds.
Junior distance runner 
Emily Wobb also started 
with a win, ?nishing ?rst in 
the 5,000-meter run with a 
time of 17:44.24 in Marietta, 
Ohio. The time placed Wobb 
at No. 5 in the nation for the 
5,000-meter run.
First-year Erin Kiekhaefer 
started her season strong by 
winning the 800-meter race 
at Marietta. She continued 
the season at the Bucknell 
Winter Classic and turned in 
a mile run with a season-best 
time of 5:15.47.
The Tartans have seen impressive performances in ?eld 
events as well. Senior Ivana 
Moses had two second-place 
?nishes at the Case Western Reserve University dual 
meet in early February. Moses ?rst victory came in the 
long jump, with a distance of 
5.09 meters, and then with a 
jump of 10.75 meters in the 
triple jump. Moses improved 
both of those distances at the 
Bucknell Winter Classic, recording her season-best long 
jump of 5.12 meters and a triple jump of 5.12 meters. Moses ?nished her season with 
All-UAA third team honors 
in the triple jump with a distance of 11.02 meters, which 
was a season best.
With the indoor track 
and ?eld season over, both 
the mens and the womens 
teams are awaiting outdoor 
competition, which begins 
with a meet March 2425 at 
Washington & Lee University. 
Indoors is considered to be a 
stepping stone in our preparation for outdoor season, 
where we can excel, said junior Carissa Iannone.
Track, ?eld teams 
compete at NYU
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
On Friday, Feb. 23, Milwaukee Brewers left ?elder 
Ryan Braun entered the Major League Baseball history 
books. The reigning National 
League (NL) MVP is bound 
to ?nd his name on all-time 
lists when his career is over; 
however, his most recent feat 
is not one he will likely boast  
about.
Braun, who was recently 
charged with taking performance-enhancing drugs 
(PEDs) and was facing a 50-
game suspension, won his appeal to the MLB. Braun is the 
?rst player to win an appeal of 
alleged PED use.
After the successful appeal 
of the drug test, Braun held a 
press conference at which he 
gave thanks to teammates, 
other players, and the Brewers coaching staff. He then 
laid out the story of his failed 
drug test, hitting each point of 
his defense in chronological 
order. 
Braun explained how his 
chaperone, Dino Laurenzi Jr., 
failed to mail his urine sample 
to the MLB laboratory the day 
it was provided and waited 
two days to send it, despite the 
numerous FedEx centers that 
were open. He also argued 
how the drug test results were 
suspect, given that the test 
showed three times more PED 
content than any other test 
that has ever been conducted 
in the MLB, suggesting that 
the test was inaccurate. He 
even mentioned all of his previously passed tests and the 
respect he has for his work.
Frankly, I believe him. He 
does not look like an abuser of 
PEDs. His biceps are not bulging out of his jersey, his head 
has not grown in Barry Bonds 
fashion, and his forehead isnt 
covered in acne  all common 
symptoms of steroid users. 
The numbers he put up last 
season, while impressive and 
NL MVP-worthy, were not so 
gaudy as to question what he 
put in his body. Thirty-three 
home runs does not scream 
steroid user like retired St. 
Louis Cardinals ?rst baseman 
Mark McGwires 70 home runs 
in 1998. With all of the media 
surrounding PEDs in MLB and 
the recent charges against 
Oakland Athletics designated 
hitter Manny Ramirez, Braun 
would be stupid to abuse 
banned drugs, especially given the success he already had 
as a ballplayer. 
As players, we are held 
to a standard of 100 percent 
perfection regarding the program, and everyone else associated with that program 
should be held to the same 
standard, Braun said at his 
press conference. We are a 
part of a process where you 
are 100 percent guilty until 
proven innocent.
Although he won, Braun 
has lost face with baseballs 
fans in the grand scheme of 
things. His name will forever be linked to steroids, 
even though his appeal was  
granted. His name is tarnished, even though he may 
not have taken a single PED. 
My name has been dragged 
through the mud, he said.
He is absolutely right, and 
that mud will stick for a long 
time. The healing process 
will be lengthy. The Brewers won, but Brauns victory 
comes with baggage. His image is tainted by skepticism, 
as we will never truly know 
his innocence or guilt in  
this matter.
ATHLETE PROFILEFirst-year Kiekhaefer off to a running start
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
First-year middle-distance 
runner Erin Kiekhaefer has 
had a strong start on the womens track and ?eld team.
Originally from Palo Alto, 
Calif., Kiekhaefer only started 
running in high school and 
did not think she could run 
in college. I had played soccer for a long time but realized that I didnt want to play 
it at my high school because 
they were too competitive, so I 
started running my freshmanyear cross country season and 
decided that I wanted to focus 
more on running, Kiekhaefer 
said. Once I found out that I 
was accepted to CMU, I contacted Coach [Dario] Donatelli and trained over the summer to be able to run.
Kiekhaefer has enjoyed her 
time on the track and ?eld 
team so far. There is such a 
great group of freshman girls 
on the team, she said. Long 
runs just turn into conversations, and sometimes we 
just break into ?ts of giggles, 
which makes those hour-plus 
runs so much better.
Teammate Lisa Rising, a 
junior, lauded Kiekhaefers 
wonderful attitude as part 
of the team. Her contagious 
positivity brings out the best 
in her teammates and our 
workouts, Rising said.
Even though the team is 
smaller than in past years, 
Kiekhaefer has high hopes for 
the group. So far everyone 
has been performing really 
well, and weve put a lot of 
new times on the top-?ve performances list, which is really 
impressive, she said. 
Kiekhaefer said her proudest moment on the team occurred earlier in the indoor 
season, when she ran her ?rst 
mile in 5:27, beating her high 
school performance by 20 seconds. I was just so excited 
and impressed that I was able 
to run a time like that, she 
said. I hadnt ever thought 
that I would be able to do 
that!
Kiekhaefers strong performances this year did not come 
as a surprise to sophomore 
teammate Jackie Guevel. 
Erin is at practice every day, 
working hard.... She makes 
sure to run the times Coach 
asks of her, Guevel said. 
Her dedication to the team 
has clearly paid off through 
her continued success in the 
mile.
Overall, Kiekhaefer ?nds 
being on the track and ?eld 
team very rewarding. I think 
the most rewarding aspect 
about being on the team is 
just meeting so many different people that I never would 
have met without the team. 
People are all different years 
and majors, and some amazing people that I never would 
have crossed paths with have 
become some of my really 
good friends, which makes 
the team such an important 
part of my college life, she 
said.
A Science and Humanities Scholar, Kiekhaefer is 
not entirely sure what she 
wants to major in. Currently, 
she is considering psychology and Hispanic studies. I 
know that I want to keep running and traveling. I probably 
want to do something with a 
nonpro?t in a Latin American  
country, she said of her future plans.
SPORTS COMMENTARYWard should end his career now
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The Pittsburgh Steelers 
cut the cord last Wednesday 
with the smile that lit up 
Heinz Field for 14 seasons. 
Wide receiver Hines Ward 
will not be wearing black and 
gold next season.
Steelers president Art 
Rooney II wrote in a statement that the Steelers plan 
to release Ward from his contract. There were reportedly 
no talks between Ward and 
Rooney about Ward taking a 
pay cut to stay in Pittsburgh. 
Ward was due to earn $4 million next season.
Ward won two Super 
Bowls with the Steelers, was 
the Super Bowl MVP in 2006, 
and was selected to four Pro 
Bowls. After setting all-time 
team records in receptions, 
receiving yards, and receiving touchdowns, Ward will 
leave Pittsburgh as the Steelers greatest wide receiver. 
But the time has come for 
Ward to hang up his cleats. 
Rooney made the right call. 
Wards production is down, 
with most of his numbers at 
their lowest since his rookie 
season. To pay $4 million for 
that would be preposterous. 
With Rooneys plan to adopt 
a more blue-collar, runningstyle offense, it is not surprising that the Steelers opened 
up salary cap space by releasing Ward.
In a statement, Ward said 
he was looking forward to 
playing in the NFL again this 
upcoming season. But this 
should be the end of the road 
for Ward; it is time to call it 
quits. He needs to retire as a 
Steeler instead of pulling a 
Brett Favre and playing outside the city that made him 
an icon. 
Playing a ?nal season of 
low-production football for 
another team might invoke a  
dismissive attitude from analysts and fans. After a season 
where Ward put up just 46 
receptions for 381 yards and 
a measly two touchdowns, 
he wants to come back and 
play another season. Does 
he want to go out with even 
more of a whimper than he 
already would be?
He could go to the Arizona 
Cardinals or the Jacksonville 
Jaguars, which are both looking to pick up a wide receiver. 
But I dont think he can produce as an NFL wide receiver 
anymore.
This isnt how I wanted 
this chapter of my career to 
end, Ward said.  He needs to 
realize that he cant end it any 
better than this.
Courtesy of Erin Kiekhaefer
First-year runner Erin Kiekhaefer competes in the mile during the UAA 
Championships at New York University. She ?nished in 5:13.30.
Courtesy of The Dana Files on Flickr
Milwaukee Brewers left ?elder Ryan Braun successfully appealed 
charges of using performance-enhancing drugs.

---------------------------------------------------

Hunt Institute exhibit
Wildflowers and watercolors create a 
visual walk through the seasons  B4
03.05.12 Volume 106, Issue 21
PostNatural History
Gallery focuses on culture, nature,  
biotechnology  B9

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Burritos and love games are the topics of this 
weeks comics.
11
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about black metal, witch 
house, and goth.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
CO-PUBLISHER Christa Hester CO-PUBLISHER Patrick Gage Kelley EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Courtney Wittekind
7
8543
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about free time 
and potentially sleazy TAs.
3
...diversions
...this week only
River City Brass
The River City Brass Band enchants listeners 
with classic 1950s favorites.
3
Native Pa.
The Hunt Institutes plant and watercolor 
selection gives a visual tour of the outdoors.
4
Ekstatis
Julia Holters new album offers a more peppy, 
accessible sound.
5
PSO
Pianist Emanuel Ax makes a strong impression 
despite his brief performance.
6
Spring Break
Pillbox editor Allison Cosby suggests ways to 
keep occupied in Pittsburgh during the break.
7
First Fridays
Unblurred: First Fridays on Penn gets 
community members to engaged in the arts.
8
Damned
Author Chuck Palahniuk disappoints with a 
cynical new book.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know about the similiarities between 
caffeine and heroin addictions?
10
Puzzles
Challenge yourself with this weeks sudoku and 
kakuro puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
See whether the stars have aligned in your 
favor this week.
14
Calendar
Find out whats happening on campus and 
around Pittsburgh this week.
15
PostNatural
Museum and art gallery opening examines 
culture, nature, and biotechnology.
9

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 03.05.123
River City celebrates 1950s
Brass band transports listeners with classic favorites
Local music lovers traveled back to the 1950s 
last Thursday at Carnegie Music Hall when the 
Pittsburgh-based River City Brass band played 
several famous 50s tunes for an enthusiastic 
audience.
Founded in 1981, the brass band features a 28-piece 
ensemble and tours throughout the United States. 
The group now boasts a total of 15 recordings, 
and continues to play a repertoire spanning from 
Broadway to big band swing and jazz.
Under the musical direction of James Gourlay, River 
City Brass is quite successful. The charismatic 
conductor was the star of the show on Thursday. A 
native of Scotland, Gourlay is musically gifted and 
holds the band together well. Between numbers, 
Gourlay gave short, entertaining introductions that 
explained the background of each piece.
The band opened with a sweeping rendition of 
Guadalcanal March by American composer 
Richard Rogers. This number captured the attention 
of the audience. Perhaps the most moving number 
of the entire performance was the second piece: 
famed American composer Leonard Bernsteins On 
the Waterfront, which serves as the soundtrack 
to the 1954 classic film of the same name. The 
band captured the spirit of the film with this piece. 
Sophomore vocal performance major Kati Richer 
said, I felt like I was sitting in the actual movie 
score.
The nights program yielded many other notable 
performances. One such performance was Cherry 
Pink and Apple Blossom White. This work by 
composer Louiguy (pseudonym for Louis Guglielmi) 
had a distinctive Spanish flare, making it an exciting 
contrast to the typical marching band-style brass 
bands. River City Brass principal cornet player, 
Bernard Black, gave a lovely solo performance during 
the piece.
The band also integrated the Pine-Richland High 
School band into its program on Thursday. PineRichland is a high school in Gibsonia, located north 
of Pittsburgh. The band of around 90 members 
performed two numbers before intermission. 
Conducted by Pine-Richland band director 
James Stillwagon, the students put on a beautiful 
performance.
As a brass band, River City Brass is obviously not 
known for its presentation of vocal music. This 
performance, however, featured two numbers with 
solo singers and while the band was successful 
instrumentally, it was disappointing vocally. The 
singing was quite underwhelming and although the 
addition of vocals certainly added a jovial element 
to the performance, it ultimately took away from the 
concerts professionalism.
At the close of the concert, the Pine-Richland 
students joined with River City Brass to perform 
a powerful interpretation of the famous Stars 
and Stripes Forever by American composer John 
Philip Sousa. This moving rendition closed the 
performance with a bang and left the audience with 
happy, patriotic feelings.
Zachary Mendez | Junior Staffwriter
Adelaide Cole | Art Editor
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Spring break is coming 
up, and I have no idea 
what to do with all that 
time off. Ive forgotten 
what its like to have free 
time. What should I do 
with myself next week?
Thanks,
I Need Entertainment, 
Earnestly Desire A 
Vexation-Avoiding Cruise 
And Tremendous Increase 
in Overall Nirvana
Dear I NEED A VACATION,
You have two options in 
front of you: hanging out 
around town, or getting out 
of Pittsburgh while you still 
have a chance. If you stay 
in Pittsburgh, there are still 
plenty of ways to spend 
your time. You can ?nally 
put those all-nighters behind 
you and sleep all afternoon. 
When you arent comatose, 
there are plenty of concerts, 
shows, and bars to keep you 
entertained. Mainly bars.
But spring break is for 
traveling! You could go to 
South America to hit the 
beaches, but then youll 
probably get dysentery or 
get caught in the middle of 
a drug war, which, while fun, 
isnt exactly stress free. If 
you want to stay closer to 
home, try a road trip or take 
the bus somewhere. If youre 
worried about being stabbed 
at the bus depot, remember 
that youre just as likely to be 
stabbed at a highway rest 
stop. If money is a concern, 
try couch sur?ng. Again, the 
worst that can happen is 
some mild stabbing.
Basically just try to avoid 
getting stabbed next 
week,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Like, my TA is soooo 
dreamy, and I totes think 
hes into me. He wrote a 
smiley face next to my 
grade!! How can I get him 
to ask me out (since, ya 
know, I cant ask him out 
 thatd be super awk)?
<3,
Want Instructor Lovingly, 
Like, Totally Hot And 
Teaches Great, Easily 
a Ten, Maybe an Eight, 
Anyway, Need Advice
Dear WILL THAT GET ME 
AN A,
This all depends on how 
sleazy your TA is. If hes kind 
of sleazy, like an economics 
or business TA, then hes 
probably willing to go out 
with his students. In any 
other subject, your TA 
is probably too hung up 
on that whole integrity, 
getting ?red for sexual 
harassment, and abusing 
power junk to actually make 
a move. In that case, wait 
until the semesters over and 
then see where things go.
If youre still reading, then 
weve already established 
that your TA is a sleazeball. 
In that case, itll be easy to 
get him to make a move. Are 
you sure you want to go out 
with this guy? I mean, you 
just admitted hes sleazy, 
otherwise you wouldnt be 
reading this. Seriously, hes 
no good. Oh, youre going to 
go after him anyway? Thats 
cool  write to an advice 
columnist and ignore his 
advice.
Damn kids these days,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About free time and TAs

---------------------------------------------------

4art
pillbox 03.05.12
There are few things in life more delicate than wild?ower 
blossoms and the soft splashes of watercolor on vellum.
Native Pennsylvania, A Wild?ower Walk, the 
newest exhibit at the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation, pairs the two wonders together to 
celebrate the historical intersection between the 
sciences and art in the world of botany.
A collaborative exhibition between the Hunt Institute 
and the Carnegie Museum of Natural Historys botany 
department, Native Pennsylvania, A Wild?ower Walk 
presents visitors with a painstakingly collected selection 
of plants and watercolors. The exhibition features the 
pairing of 36 watercolors by Richard Crist (CIT 28) from 
the Hunt Institutes collection with a signi?cant selection 
of the Carnegie Museum of Natural Historys herbarium 
specimens.
In addition to Crists watercolors and the botany 
departments herbarium selections, the exhibit also 
features watercolors by painter Lyn Hayden and 
entomologist and painter Andrey Avinoff, which 
underscore the importance of herbaria in botanical 
research, education, and conservation.
The concept behind the exhibit is to create a visual 
wild?ower walk through Pennsylvanias blooming 
seasons. A special emphasis is placed on endangered 
and rare species. Given Pittsburghs historically 
gray winters, visitors will surely welcome this early 
celebration of natures ephemeral splashes of color.
At Carnegie Mellon, an environment in which most 
undergraduate students have a hard time taking a 
break, let alone going outside, Native Pennsylvania, 
A Wild?ower Walk provides a convenient look at the 
delicate unfolding of Pennsylvanias natural world. 
Located in the often-overlooked Hunt Institute, on the 
?fth ?oor of Hunt Library, the exhibit provides a quiet 
space for serene contemplation. The unfolding of the 
seasons lends the exhibit a gentle, logical progression 
that is sure to please those in need of a respite.
In the exhibit, visitors can explore the intersection 
between the arts and natural sciences by viewing 
the juxtaposition of botanists tools and artists 
documentation on display. For those uninitiated in the 
traditional practices of botanical collection, the exhibit 
thoroughly describes common tools and their uses.
The inclusion of Crists work alongside the herbarium 
selections provides a new perspective on the artist, 
given that historians remember Crist primarily as an 
abstract painter. Native Pennsylvania, A Wild?ower Walk 
adds another dimension to the publics understanding of 
his work as an artist.
Along with his painting and printmaking, Crist was also 
an amateur botanist, author, and book illustrator. He 
wrote and illustrated several childrens books, including 
The Mystery of Broken Horse Chimneys, published in 
1960 with his wife, Eda Szecskay Crist. He also provided 
hundreds of watercolor illustrations for the Herbs 
and Vegetables and Fruits volumes of The Time-Life 
Encyclopedia of Gardening in 1977. His work is in the 
collections of the Carnegie Library in Pittsburgh.
For those interested in expanding their knowledge of the 
botanical world, The Hunt Institute for Documentation 
will be holding lectures through mid-June that will focus 
on Pennsylvanias native plants.
Juan Fernandez | Staffwriter
Native Pennsylvania, A Wild?ower Walk will be on 
display through June 29 on the ?fth ?oor of Hunt Library. 
Hours: Monday-Friday, 9 a.m.-noon and 1-5 p.m.; 
Sunday, 1-4 p.m. (except March 11; April 6-8; and May 6, 
27, and 28)
Kate Groschner | Staff
Exhibit explores Pennsylvanias outdoors
Hunt Institutes collection of plants and watercolors takes viewers on visual tour
Kate Groschner | Staff
Top: The exhibits plant selection gives viewers a look 
into Pennsylvanias natural world. 
Bottom: Visitors to the Hunt Institute examine the 
collections on display.

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 03.05.125
Paperhouse
On Darkness
Minimal techno, black metal, witch house, goth: They 
are all some of my favorite music genres, but theyre also 
some of the bleakest. While reviewing end-of-the-year 
lists from a slew of magazines, it appears that I am not the 
only one who has become obsessed with darkness. In the 
past decade, many genres of music have begun shifting 
toward dark, sluggish, and spooky themes. All of this begs 
the question: Why has our culture, or at the very least our 
musicians, become obsessed with darkness?
Darkness in music is nothing new: The 80s, for example, 
were dominated by post-punk and were dark in their own 
right. But its been over 20 years since darkness has been 
in vogue. Perhaps music is ?nally becoming a re?ection of 
the global trauma evident in the news: oil spills, economic 
ruin, riots, revolutions, tsunamis. 
As cultural analyst Simon Reynolds points out in his 
2011 book Retromania, trauma induces repetition and 
regression, or hyperstasis. Reynolds implies that while we 
appear to be moving somewhere, we are actually staying 
in the same spot or even traveling backwards. In this 
state of hyperstasis, the past is perpetually reanimated 
into present culture. This results in individuals exhibiting 
an aching nostalgia for even the most irrational sorts of 
retromania.
 
As a result of global trauma, a large portion of the music 
being produced today seems to be haunted by the past. 
It is in music that we are seeing a distinctive reaction to 
the political and economic atmosphere of the world. This 
sort of sluggish and spooky music is not like the 80s 
music that was dark for the sake of being dark, but rather 
is a result of social, political, cultural, and environmental 
shocks. Musicians today are taking ideas and styles from 
the past and are reworking them to become a re?ection 
of the present. The world isnt a good place right now, but 
the darkest hour is just before the dawn.
Alex Price | Special to The Tartan
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
The Black Keys  El Camino
Tennis  Young and Old
Tycho  Dive
Frank Sinatra  The Best of the Best
Dr. Dog  Be the Void
Twink  Itsy Bits and Bubbles
Black Belles  The Black Belles
Atlas Sound  Parallax
R.E.M.  Part Lies, Part Heart, Part Truth, Part Garbage: 
       19822011
Markus D  Shoshin
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Julia Holter releases Ekstasis
New album features a more peppy, accessible sound
When Julia Holter released her album Tragedy last 
year, it quickly received plenty of critical acclaim: 
National Public Radio named it one of the top 10 
outer sound albums of 2011 while FACT magazine 
ranked it at No. 13 on its list of best albums of the 
year. The album, which centers around Euripides 
play Hippolytus, combines psychedelic soundscapes 
with Holters echoing vocals and a multitude of 
musical in?uences to create a swirling, brooding 
atmosphere be?tting the Greek tragedy. Her new 
album, Ekstasis, keeps the groovy sounds but 
abandons Tragedys moodiness in favor of a peppy, 
more accessible sound.
However, the differences between Ekstasis and 
Tragedy are evident from the opening notes. While 
Tragedy began with hazy, atmospheric ambience, 
Ekstasis begins with what sounds like a pop version 
of Baroque chamber music. The differences only 
continue from there. The rich soundscapes are still 
there, but instead of ominous foghorns and clanging, 
theyre accompanied by peppy synthesizers and 
upbeat percussion.
These differences dont make Ekstasis less musically 
interesting. The album still has a dreamy haziness 
about it, as though youre listening to it echo 
through a cloud of smoke. Instead of the ominous 
vibe emanating throughout Tragedy, Ekstasis has a 
calmly contented feel.
Holter still weaves a fascinating blend of musical 
in?uences into her soundscapes  Ekstasis has 
everything from a Baroque harpsichord to an 
80s-inspired synth to eastern-in?uenced ambient 
sounds. Embedded in all these musical layers is 
Holters voice, which ranges from an operatic style 
to a bouncy pop sound to a whispered spoken word. 
In less skilled hands, this huge range of sounds 
could quickly devolve into chaos, but Holter pulls 
everything together skillfully to create a musical 
atmosphere thats greater than the sum of its parts.
This musical atmosphere allows Ekstasis to succeed 
where Tragedy sometimes fell short. Tragedy is 
so focused on pulling in as many threads of sound 
as possible, and so intent on ?tting the theme of 
Hippolytus, that it often feels overly intellectual. With 
the previous album, the listener can appreciate the 
mastery that Holter is showing in her music, but 
this sometimes makes it dif?cult to get lost in the 
brooding atmosphere Holter is trying to create.
In Ekstasis, though, Holter seems to be less 
pressured to prove her talents, and instead focuses 
on creating a lovely atmosphere that allows you to 
step outside yourself and into Ekstasis rich musical 
world.
Ekstasis will be released on March 8, but can 
currently be streamed online at NPR.org. 
Anna Walsh | Staffwriter
Courtesy of dublabrat on Flickr
Musician Julia Holter creates a lovely, upbeat atmosphere in her new album Ekstasis.  

---------------------------------------------------

6music
pillbox 03.05.12
Featuring a world-class guest soloist, the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra (PSO)s program added another 
success to the list of excellent performances in its 
201112 season last Friday night. With Juilliard-educated 
and world-renowned pianist Emanuel Ax featured in the 
program, the orchestra once again showed its ability to 
bring in high-pro?le soloists while demonstrating its own 
musical prowess.
The concert was held at Heinz Hall, which is currently 
celebrating 40 years as host to the PSO. In the lobby, 
young musicians greeted guests who arrived early 
with classical favorites like French composer Claude 
Debussys Clair de Lune. Meanwhile, in the concert 
hall, orchestra members trickled onstage and began to 
warm up. Once the hall had ?lled, celebrated violinist 
and guest conductor Nikolaj Znaider got the program 
underway.
Dynamics were key in the ?rst piece of the program, 
German composer Richard Wagners Prelude und 
Liebestod from the opera Tristan und Isolde; the 
orchestra did an excellent job of bringing them to the 
forefront. Wagner, a German 19th-century composer best 
known for his operas, wrote the piece in true romantic 
style with exaggerated swells from loud to soft. Several 
exciting climaxes intensi?ed the piece, when the 
orchestra built up powerful crescendos then suddenly 
dropped down to a quiet hum. Both the sudden and slow 
changes in dynamics showed off the focus and control 
of the musicians on stage and the orchestras ability to 
move as a single body.
The incredible dynamic range is meant to re?ect the 
emotional turmoil of Tristan, a character from a  
12th-century legend of star-crossed lovers, as he and 
Isolde, the wife-to-be of Tristans uncle, fall in love. The 
story, which has taken many forms in its hundreds of 
years of existence, is rich with guilt, revenge, love, and 
deceit. The orchestra did an excellent job of expressing 
this drama through music.
The orchestras impressive performance aside, Ax stole 
the show with his performance of Wolfgang Amadeus 
Mozarts Concerto No. 22 for Piano and Orchestra. In 
contrast to the emotional vigor in the Wagner piece, 
the Mozart concerto highlighted the soloists skill with 
delicate and incredibly fast ?nger work.
The seasoned pianist was a self-assured and engaged 
performer. Ax oftentimes took his eyes off the keys to 
carefully watch the conductor, and moved his head 
vigorously to the music, even when not playing. He 
played each series of rapid trills and scales with ease, 
without making a production of the obvious dif?culty of 
the piece.
For Ax, this con?dence did not translate into arrogance. 
After his performance, the audience cheered wildly 
and gave him a standing ovation, and Ax accepted the 
applause with a series of humble and good-natured 
smiles and bows. When the audience insisted, he took 
a seat once more on the piano bench for an encore  
a sweet, romantic piece that allowed Ax to show the 
audience a little more versatility.
Despite its strong reception, Axs appearance was 
surprisingly brief. Aside from his encore, the threemovement Mozart concerto was the only piece that 
featured the pianist. Judging from the audiences 
enthusiastic reception, Ax was the highlight of the 
evening; the orchestra could have done more to make 
him the centerpiece of the program.
Although they had taken a step back to accompany 
Axs performance, the orchestra once again rose to 
the spotlight for its performance of English composer 
Edward Elgars Enigma Variations. Elgars piece 
consists of 14 variations on a theme, each representing 
an important person in Elgars life. Though connected 
by this common underlying theme, each variation 
was distinct, and many were in direct contrast to one 
another, as the music was written to express different 
personalities.
Like the Wagner piece, Elgars variations showed a 
wide range of emotions and dynamics. Starting off 
with a tender depiction of Elgars wife, Alice, the piece 
varied from light, ?urrying winds to loud, blaring brass 
to sweeping, emotive strings. The Nimrod variation, 
perhaps the most well known of the variations, was 
a particular highlight. Moving at a very slow adagio, 
the orchestra grew in dynamics with an intense yet 
extremely tender crescendo, moving seamlessly from 
soft to loud.
With the help of Ax, the PSO put on another excellent 
and well-received program for local classical music 
lovers. Despite Axs brief appearance, the program 
showed off both Ax as an accomplished soloist and the 
PSO as an orchestra that continues to impress.
Rachel Cohen | Assistant Pillbox Editor
PSO features world-renowned pianist
Juilliard-educated soloist Emanuel Ax impresses audiences despite brief appearance

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 03.05.127
As its name implies, spring break is a time for students 
to take a break from work. Even if youre not going 
home or somewhere warm and sunny, your spring break 
doesnt have to be a bummer. Whether you have the 
whole week or only an afternoon to spare, Pittsburgh has 
a lot to offer and theres no better time to get out and 
explore.
If youre looking for a bit of adventure, check out the 
Mattress Factory, a contemporary art museum located 
in the historic North Side that focuses on exhibitions 
that feature a variety of media to fully engage visitors. 
Getting there can be a challenge and the entrance is 
hidden in an alleyway, but its worth the effort once you 
get inside.
The Mattress Factory currently features two exhibitions 
in addition to its permanent collection. Factory Installed, 
which has been on display since October, features a 
wide variety of work  from projections to mirrored 
rooms to technology-focused installations  by artists 
Pablo Valbuena, Mariana Manhes, Natalia Gonzlez, 
Nika Kupyrova, Than Htay Maung, and Veronica Ryan. 
All of the works in this exhibit are site speci?c and were 
created just for the Mattress Factory. Factory Installed is 
on display until May 27.
Also on view at the Mattress Factory is 610-3556 by 
New York-based artist Sarah Oppenheimer. This piece 
features an opening in the ?oor of a room on the fourth 
?oor of the museum that directs viewers attention to a 
neighboring yard across the street. The piece is the ?rst 
time an artist has altered the buildings structure in its 
30-year history. When visiting the museum, it seems that 
every exhibit is more exciting than the last, making for a 
truly memorable experience. Best of all, Carnegie Mellon 
students get into the Mattress Factory for free.
For music lovers and collectors of vinyl, Pittsburgh 
has some great record stores  but who really has the 
time to sift through a record store when classes are in 
session? Thats why spring break is the perfect time to 
devote a few hours to digging through grungy record 
shops.
Jerrys Records in Squirrel Hill is the go-to store for many 
vinyl collectors. Home to over 1 million vinyl albums, 
Jerrys was named one of Rolling Stones best record 
stores in the United States in 2010. Even Mac Miller 
loves Jerrys  he released a freestyle about the store 
in January called Jerrys Record Store. If Jerrys isnt 
your jam, try Wicked Discs in Oakland, which focuses on 
classic rock, punk, and metal, or 720 Records in Squirrel 
Hill, which focuses on hip-hop, reggae, funk, and jazz.
While it may seem like an obvious suggestion, you 
could spend a day at the Carnegie museums in Oakland 
during the break. The Carnegie Museum of Arts 
permanent collection contains around 35,000 European 
and American art works from the late 17th century to the 
present. The museum is also hosting temporary exhibits, 
including an exhibit by sculpture and landscape artist 
Maya Lin (titled Maya Lin) and a retrospective of 
African-American photographer Charles Teenie Harris 
(titled Teenie Harris, Photographer: An American Story). 
The museums photographic exhibit Picturing the City: 
Downtown Pittsburgh, 20072010 is closing March 25, 
so spring break is a good opportunity to see it before it 
closes.
The Carnegie Museum of Natural History is currently 
home to Read My Pins: The Madeleine Albright 
Collection, an exhibit featuring more than 200 of 
Albrights pins, which she wore to convey and reinforce 
diplomatic messages during her term as Secretary of 
State. In addition to its permanent exhibitions covering 
a range of topics from botany to dinosaurs to minerals, 
the museum also features the Cats and Dogs Series, 
silkscreen prints of domestic dogs and cats by Andy 
Warhol. Both Carnegie museums are a short walk from 
campus and, like the Mattress Factory, Carnegie Mellon 
students enjoy free admission.
If you have a car, or a friend with one, take a day trip 
to Falling Water. Located about an hour and a half from 
Pittsburgh, Falling Water is a home designed and built 
between 1936 and 1939 by esteemed American architect 
Frank Lloyd Wright. The home appears to be standing on 
nothing, instead stretching out over a 30-foot waterfall. 
When it was built, Falling Water was immediately 
recognized as an architectural feat and is now a National 
Historic Landmark. After being closed for all of January 
and February, the architectural landmark will reopen for 
the 2012 season on Saturday.
Theres a lot to see in and around Pittsburgh, and it 
seems like theres never time to get out while classes are 
in session. So take a day off, get some fresh air, and take 
in the local culture. You wont regret it.
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Ways to spend spring break in Pittsburgh
Museums and architectural landmarks are exciting destinations for students staying local 
Yayoi Kusamas Infinity Dots Mirrored Room, part of a 
permanent installation, is among the attractions on  
display at the Mattress Factory.
Courtesy of the Mattress Factory

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 03.05.1298art
pillbox 03.05.12
Unblurred: First Fridays on Penn is a monthly showcase 
of visual and performance arts in the Penn Avenue Arts 
District (48005500 Penn Ave.). Like the Cultural Trusts 
quarterly Gallery Crawl in Downtown, most Unblurred 
events are free and all are open to the public, with over 
two dozen locations to choose from.
A poetry reading at Voluto Coffee on Penn Avenue was 
the ?rst stop of the night. The reading was hosted by 
Terrance Hayes, a National Book Award winner and 
Carnegie Mellon creative writing professor. Originally 
concerned about reading for two hours straight, Hayes 
opted to pull his creative writing class into the event and 
open up the readings to the general public. Volunteers 
were asked to sign up the hour before the reading, and 
were called forward as the night progressed. Other 
visitors, who came in from the rain, were entranced by 
the atmosphere and presentation and almost always 
stayed for multiple pieces. Every seat was taken, 
including the extra ones lining the room. 
The changing readers was particularly nice, said 
sophomore chemistry major Sarah Horner, a student 
in one of Hayes classes. It kept the pacing and style 
different throughout the night and that was better 
than hearing the same person reading the entire time. 
Horner read two personal pieces as well as one she had 
heard from a YouTube slam poetry video. I came out of 
it feeling very inspired, she said. 
In addition to the poetry reading, Assemble, a 
community arts and technology gallery, was hosting an 
exhibit called Open Studio, by artist Seth Clark. Open 
Studio is a highly interactive exhibit that makes viewers 
participants in the artistic process, whether by creating 
a mark of their own, drawing a line representation 
of their height, or letting out pent-up aggression by 
stabbing a fork into a piece of cardboard in the wall. 
According to Assembles website, The general public 
seldom has the opportunity to engage with the artist-atwork because studios are often shut off to them. The 
exhibit runs through March.
Unblurred, and similar events like the Gallery Crawl, are 
organized to encourage the community to get involved 
in the arts. Many of the attendees of Fridays Unblurred, 
however, were art students or were otherwise related 
to the event. Unblurred is hosted by the Penn Avenue 
Arts Initiative (PAAI). The PAAI was created in 1998 in 
collaboration with the Bloom?eld Gar?eld Corporation 
in response to the lack of development in the area. With 
the help of generous funding from both local and national 
sources, the PAAI has been moving the avenue toward 
being, in its own words, artsy-er, green-er, busi-er, 
tasty-er, homey-er, and clean-er.
The next Unblurred art walk will take place on Friday, 
April 6.
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
First Fridays engage public in the ?ne arts
Unblurred events, including poetry reading and Open Studio, delight community members
        Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
The Center for PostNatural History is a distinct 
crossbreed between a museum and an art gallery. 
Friday marked the grand opening of its permanent 
exhibition facility, located at 4913 Penn Ave. Richard 
Pell, a Carnegie Mellon professor of art and director of 
the Center for PostNatural History, is the founder of this 
space.
The term post-natural refers to genetically altered 
living organisms. According to the centers website, 
its intent is to acquire, interpret and provide access 
to a collection of living, preserved and documented 
organisms of post-natural origin. The exhibit allows 
access to a wealth of knowledge about the relationships 
among culture, nature, and biotechnology.
Upon entering, visitors are guided under a dark arch into 
a dimly lit room with ambient noises quietly adding to 
the atmosphere. Large, bookcase-like structures tower 
next to the entrance. Nestled in these dark, wooden 
barriers are glass windows that provide a glimpse of 
tiny, intricate dioramas created by Craig Tompkins, an 
artist based in Santa Fe, New Mexico. These dioramas 
represent different environments that harbor genetically 
altered species, such as a military goat farm generating 
biosteel goats.
The glass windows also contain a ?sh tank of 
Glo?sh, or zebra ?sh, a transgenic organism. Edward 
Wojciechowski III, a ?rst-year linguistics major, said, I 
thought it was interesting that they had live organisms. 
Like, I de?nitely had those ?sh as a kid. It was all very 
familiar.
Other sections of the exhibit display more of these cases, 
each with a specimen and a phone that viewers can pick 
up in order to learn the history of the modi?ed organism. 
These cases include a variety of samples, including sea 
monkeys and the testicles of a castrated domestic cat. 
The specimens featured in the exhibit are all donations.
A larger portion of the exhibit has a wall dedicated 
to the Dugway Proving Ground, the largest biological 
weapons testing site in the United States. The location is 
illustrated by an eerie landscape photograph of the Utah 
Granite Peak Installation, accompanied by an aerial view 
of the land. A pulsating circular projection of the ground 
inhabits the wall next to the pictures. For quite a lot of 
bacterial pathogens, this is their one sort of habitat that 
exists outside the lab, Pell explained, when asked why 
the projection was there.
The idea for the exhibit goes back as far as 2005, though 
the development of the physical space started just a 
year ago. Pell originally began working with engineers 
in the ?eld of synthetic biology. Though the museum 
displays a number of preserved life forms, Pell was never 
particularly interested in the creation of these displays as 
an art form.
The realization that I came to was that the things 
that were already happening in labs were far more 
provocative than anything I could come up with, 
he said. What was necessary was a space of 
documentation and contemplation.
He worked to transform the center into a neutral space 
that would allow for serious contemplation, which 
is no easy task when working with a controversial 
subject. The goals of the gallery are to challenge the 
assumptions of viewers and to allow them to reach their 
own conclusions, without having to decide whether or 
not they agree with any particular opinion. Pell said, 
We speci?cally try to avoid using the language of the 
industry, or academia even.
Pell revealed that the most dif?cult part of creating 
a permanent home for the center was simply the 
architecture of the space. He worked with numerous 
people to transform one large room into a series of 
intimate spaces that all ?ow in and out of each other.
Though the area is decidedly neutral, there is 
undoubtedly a hint of morbidity that arises from the 
lighting, audio, and concepts of the exhibit. The blunt 
exposition of the genetic modi?cation that transpires in 
America is enough to give any viewer an uneasy feeling. 
The Center for PostNatural History lets viewers in on 
something that feels secretive, even though all of the 
information displayed is available to the general public. 
 
 
Samantha Ward | Staffwriter
PostNatural museum crosses boundaries
Museum and art gallery opens, focuses on culture, nature, and biotechnology
A visitor at the Center for PostNatural History listens 
to one of the audio exhibits housed in the space.
                    Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
A poetry reading at Voluto Coffee, hosted by Carnegie Mellon professor Terrance Hayes, allowed volunteers to 
take the stage and participate in the event.

---------------------------------------------------

10literature
pillbox 03.05.12
If you are sick of high school and college students 
thinking that they are part of some cool and 
exclusive club for knowing the ?rst two rules of Fight 
Club (which are, paradoxically, not to talk about 
Fight Club), you can thank Chuck Palahniuk, the 
author of the novel. He has been releasing novels 
annually for the past 13 years, and he is well known 
for writing books that deal with macabre and gritty 
subject matter.
Over the years, Palahniuk has gradually introduced 
socially critical themes in his work. For a while, this 
worked wonderfully. Lullaby, Diary  and, to a lesser 
extent, Rant  were well-executed horror stories 
that managed to unsettle the reader with disturbing 
scenes, plots, and characters, forcing the reader to 
re-examine the validity of certain characteristics 
of American society. Recently, however, Palahniuk 
has focused too strongly on social criticism and not 
enough on delivering strong, ?uid stories. His most 
recent book, Damned, is merely a continuation of 
Palahniuks downward spiral.
Satirical may be one of the ?rst words that comes 
to mind when trying to describe Palahniuks work. 
As hard as it may be, ignore the impulse to call 
his work satire. It is not, because satire requires 
subtlety and skill. While Palahniuk is a skilled writer, 
he possesses the subtlety of a Tyrannosaurus rex 
with a Napoleon complex. The satirical elements 
in his earlier works succeeded because they were 
vehicles for the plot. This relationship is inverted in 
Damned, and the book suffers severely because of 
it. The focus on social issues instead of a plot results 
in a very slow-paced book that is neither interesting 
nor captivating and is not even convincing in its 
cynicism.
Palahniuk is not a bad writer: His ability to construct 
intriguing and de?nitive characters is amazing. Even 
in Damned this talent is noticeable. The narrator, 
13-year-old Madison, is dead and has been sent to 
Hell after an overdose of marijuana. The Hell in 
Damned contains the pantheons of old religions 
torturing damned souls for enjoyment against the 
background of a waterfall of feces, mountains of nail 
clippings, and other not-so-pleasant landmarks. The 
juxtaposition of the narrators wry humor and the 
disturbing features of Hell is genuinely enjoyable 
and interesting. Unfortunately, it quickly gets old as 
it becomes clear that the narrator is solely a vehicle 
for communicating the travesty of parents living 
vicariously through their children and then treating 
them as status symbols.
There is a reason that Fight Club garnered so much 
attention among young adults. It was inventive, 
in-your-face, visceral, and uncompromising  
everything a typical rebellious teenager hopes to be. 
There are glimpses of these traits in Damned, but 
the constant thematic repetition and the slowness 
of the plot render Damned a dif?cult read. Palahniuk 
is not a sellout or washed up  not yet, at least. At 
the moment, it appears that he has merely lost the 
visionary equilibrium that led him to such success 
with his earlier works. The talent is still there, but it 
is forced to play second ?ddle to his satire. 
 
 
Matt Mastricova | Staffwriter
Damned lacks substance
Palahniuk disappoints with unconvincing cynicism
Author Chuck Palahniuks Damned focuses more 
on social commentary than on plot. 
Courtesy of Random House  Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Feb. 29, 1912
A Letter to the Editor suggests that 
the difficulty of developing school spirit 
stems from a combination of badly 
timed sports events and late night 
classes. Academics always come first 
at Carnegie Mellon, so having classes 
that overlap with sporting events only 
makes school spirit all the more difficult 
to obtain.
50years ago
March 14, 1962
A news writer outlines two summer 
programs marketed toward students 
interested in having a summer of 
fun. One program at the University of 
Mexico boasts unusual courses and 
weekend trips around the country. The 
program at the University of Hawaii 
includes sightseeing, dances, dinner 
cruises, and beach parties.
25years ago
March 10, 1987
An in-depth narration follows a tough 
defeat in the final game of Tartan ice 
hockey for the season. The game was 
lost to local rival, Duquesne University, 
by a close margin, as were many 
others that season. Despite the loss, 
both coach and players are optimistic 
about the upcoming season.
10years ago
March 4, 2002
A typical Pittsburgh winter is sure 
to bring feelings of gloom to most 
students due to a combination of 
crummy weather and hard work. The 
scientific name is Seasonal Affective 
Disorder (SAD), and it brings symptoms 
of lethargy and irritability similar to 
severe depression. Luckily for students, 
this past winter was fairly mild.
5years ago
March 5, 2007
The Tartan presents a never-ending 
dilemma for college students: to remain 
friends with benefits or to cut things 
off once and for all. While the physical 
temptation is tough to suppress, the 
advice columnist suggests staying 
away from such a sticky situation.
1year ago
Feb. 28, 2011
As midterms continue, students 
seek ways to stay awake as long as 
possible. A favorite among students is 
immense caffeine consumption in the 
form of coffee, tea, soda, and energy 
drinks. A SciTech author explores 
caffeines side effects and compares 
students dependence on it to heroin 
addiction.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 03.05.1211
I Remember by Tara Helfer
thelfer@andrew
Stage of Love Games by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 03.05.12
Apartment 4H by Joe Medwid and Dave Rhodenbaughjmedwid@andrew
Online at www.4hcomic.com 
Burritos by Reza Farazmandpoorlydrawnlines@gmail.com
Online at www.poorlydrawnlines.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 03.05.1213
Solutions from Feb. 27, 2012
CrosswordMedium DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Very Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com/kakuro/
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 03.05.12
1. Greek peak
2. Diplomacy
3. Muslim elder and prayer-leader
4. Bristly
5. Languid
6. Uncommon sense
7. Mai ___
8. Entrances
9. Body of salt water
10. Fizzy drink
11. Chicago paper, for short
12. Earth Day subj.
13. Decline
21. Join a poker game
23. Autocratic Russian rulers
25. Pouch
26. Build
27. _____ is human
28. Chick of jazz
29. Emeritus: Abbr.
31. Barker and Bell
32. Slippery as _____
33. Rocky debris
34. Fragment
39. AOL, e.g.
40. Ruhr city
41. Haul
42. Manifestation of a deity
44. Eccentric
48. Actress Peeples
49. Pamper
51. Long
52. Berts buddy
54. Oscar Madison, for one
55. Yearn deeply
56. Author Seton
57. Immediately following
59. Costly
60. Actress Turner
61. Lodge members
64. Compass pt.
65. Roulette bet
1. Elevator man
5. Release
10. Bouillabaisse, e.g.
14. Ditto
15. Designer Mizrahi
16. Jaws boat
17. Beat it!
18. Ill will
19. My Heart Will Go On singer
20. Maximally
22. OK to consume
24. Part of RSVP
25. IRS IDs
26. And so forth
30. Accumulate
35. Aussie hopper
36. Brief instant
37. Cattle spot
38. Most strange
41. Mosaic piece
43. Salad green
44. Alley ___
45. Alway
46. Snares
47. Lessened
50. Checked out
53. Actress Zadora
54. Wrench
58. Deal with
62. Queue
63. The end of _____
66. Bargain
67. Cameo stone
68. Ascended
69. Slender
70. Defeat
71. Destitute
72. Ages
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Sun and fun await you. Take this vacation to stock up on as 
much sun as you possibly can. Youll need it to survive the 
last few weeks of winter at Carnegie Mellon.
taurus
april 20may 20
It was nice that you gave your TA the benefit of the doubt at 
the start of the semester, but now its crunch time and you 
must come to the realization that your TA is an incompetent 
fool.
gemini
may 21june 21
Why are you reading the paper? You dont have the luxury 
of sitting and frittering your time away. Get back to work! 
cancer
june 22july 22
There are many things in life right now that are confusing to 
you. Confusion can be a very painful thing, but things can 
only clear up from here.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Theres lots of work to be done this week, but make sure 
that you take some time to relax... even if all you do is lay 
on your back staring at the celling and asking a higher 
power to spare you.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Your spring break plans are not so great, but your friends 
dont have to know that. Lie and make them envy you.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Midterms. Why are you worrying about midterms? Youre 
amazing, and theres nothing that will stand in your way.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Hurry up and finish your work so you can get to more 
important stuff, like anything that isnt homework.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Five more days. Five more days. Five more days. Five more 
days.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
I know you may want to, but you cant fall to pieces until 
you get the approval of at least three outside experts. Once 
you get said approval, you may then commence falling 
apart.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
You have to deal with all of your problems this week, but 
thats nothing new to you. Just remember that all you have 
to do is make it to Friday and things will get better.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Your Libra friend is quite delusional. Keep an eye on him 
because hes going to need you. 
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 03.05.1215
MONDAY3.5.12
Born in Flames. Rangos Hall. 4:30 p.m.
Arts Greenhouse presents the Born in Flames Tour 
workshop led by touring artists Jean Grae, Invincible, 
and Tamar-Kali. The workshop will focus on the 
marginalized impact of women, women of color, and 
LGBT communities on the history of music and the ways 
different artists have tried to counter these narratives. The 
workshop will be followed by a concert at 7:30 p.m.
TUESDAY3.6.12
Will Eisners New York. ToonSeum. Through May 27.
The ToonSeum will display cartoonist Will Eisners work. 
The exhibit features original works of the comics pioneer, 
tracing an informal history of New York and comics.
The Kooks with Yawn. Mr. Smalls Theatre. 8 p.m.
British pop rock band The Kooks will perform a show 
with Yawn. The Kooks released its debut album 
Inside In/Inside Out in 2006.
WEDNESDAY3.7.12
Pittsburgh Penguins Hockey. CONSOL Energy Center. 
7:30 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Penguins face off against the Toronto 
Maple Leafs.
King Britt. AVA Lounge. 10 p.m.
Producer and DJ King Britt will perform at AVA Lounge. 
King Britt works across genre lines, creating a unique 
blend of house, hip hop, nu-jazz, funk, and afrotech.
THURSDAY3.8.12
Cary Lynn Kleid: My Favorite Feminists. WildCard, 
4209 Butler St. 6 p.m.
Local artist Cary Lynn Kleid will present a collection 
of abstract collage portraits of feminist pioneers in 
celebration of Womens History Month. The exhibit will 
feature ?rst-, second-, and third-wave feminists and will 
be on display at WildCard through mid-April.
Off the Top Presents: Spring Show.  
Margaret Morrison A14. 8 p.m.
Carnegie Mellons own Off the Top Improv Comedy 
Troupe will present shortand long-form performances. 
The show is free and open to the public.
FRIDAY3.9.12
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra: Haydn, Previn, and 
Mendelssohn. Heinz Hall. 8 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will perform Franz 
Joseph Haydns Symphony No. 102, Andr Previns 
Triple Concerto, and Felix Mendelssohns Symphony 
No. 4, Italian. The performance will be conducted by 
Andr Previn and will feature solos by George Vosburgh 
(trumpet), William Caballero (horn), and Craig Knox (tuba).
SATURDAY3.10.12
Humanaut presents: Out of Order. Belvederes. 9 p.m. 
21+.
This monthly DJ event will feature renowned Pittsburgh 
musician CUTPUS (Geoff Maddock). Maddock is known 
for bringing a wide variety of music to the city over the 
years and will perform alongside Cleveland-based artist 
Jason Burns and Pittsburgh DJ Mr. Hamilton. There is a 
$5 cover charge starting at 10 p.m.
A Streetcar Named Desire. Benedum Center. Through 
March 11.
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre presents an adaption of 
Tennessee Williams A Streetcar Named Desire, taking the 
audience inside the mind of an aging southern belle. The 
production is choreographed by John Neumeier. Tickets 
are available through the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust.
ONGOING
About Face. The Andy Warhol Museum. Through  
May 13.
New York photographer Arne Svenson created a series of 
three-dimensional, large-format portraits in collaboration 
with The Warhol. The portraits are mounted on the wall 
and ?xed open at a 55-degree angle, so patrons can 
view the neutral portrait from one angle and see an 
accompanying portrait of an emotional motivator from 
another.
Maya Lin. Carnegie Museum of Art. Through May 13.
The exhibit features work from American sculpture and 
landscape artist Maya Lin. Elements from architecture, 
sculpture, nature, and ecology contribute to Lins unique 
approach to landscapes; the exhibit features a variety 
of works from large-scale topographic representations 
to delicate wall installations of silver pins. The exhibit 
is organized by Raymund Ryan, curator at the Heinz 
Architectural Center at the Carnegie Museum of Art.
UPCOMING
Carnegie Mellon International Film Festival: Faces 
of Others. March 22April 15.
This years International Film Festival focuses on the 
concept of the Other and features independent ?lms from 
all over the world. The opening night reception will be held 
at the Melwood Screening Room at 7:15 p.m. on March 
22, and will include a screening of El Sicario.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 03.05.12
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
SPIRIT, Carnegie Mellons African-American minority organization, hosted SOUL last 
Saturday night in Rangos Hall. SOUL spotlighted student performers from SPIRIT and 
the Carnegie Mellon community, with acts including vocal performances, spoken word, 
and dance.   
soul.
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
