Carl Advocates Incorporation 
of Academic Affairs Board
Dorm Council 
Debates Housing
by Chris Infante
The Womens Dorm Council has been an 
active body in serving the needs of women 
resident students. It was instrumental in 
endorsing the gynecological program 
during the summer and has helped to 
realize that program this winter.
Perhaps, the second coming-out for 
this group rests in the recent questioning of 
room-draw policies; with the guidance of 
Bill Dillon, WDC is seeking to unify roomdraw policies and hopes to provide a single 
workable system for both men and women 
What has been brought most noticably to 
the battleground is the policy towards 
apartments.
During the past, women have had 
priorities in selecting Morewood and Woodlawn apartments, only three male students
Chem Exec. 
Speaks to GSIA
by Jeff Ganek
Lloyd Cook, Director of Urban Affairs 
for the Union Carbide Corporation, last 
Thursday told GSIAs Program for Execu
tives that businessmen have the skills 
needed to solve social and governmental 
problems that exist in Americas cities. He 
told the executives that not only are 
businessmen the possessors of the needed 
skills, but that the business community has 
begun to take social action.
After telling how Union Carbide, Chase 
Manhattan Bank, Exxon Corporation, and 
fifty other corporations are cooperating to 
improve schools in New York's Bedford 
Stuyvesant section, he explained how they 
helped reorganize the City court system. 
The results, he claimed, have been 
astounding. He cited Union Carbides 
Street Academy in Bed-Stuy as having 
succeeded in motivating and redirecting 
ghetto youth.
Its in our interest to get involved in 
New York Citys problems. We live and 
prosper there, the former chemist stated. 
He argued that the business evenvironment 
in the cities is decaying. Businesses must 
finance training programs to compensate 
for the poor schools their employees have 
attended. Cook spoke of a number of corp
orations like First National City Bank, 
which is making an effort to finance low 
income housing projects. He claimed they 
are acting to protect their stake in the City.
Our management skills are more valu
able to the cities than money, he ex
plained. Local government has over the 
last 10 years grown into a big business 
without the benefit of modern organiza
tional technology. Hence we have seen 
skyrocketing costs accompanying reduc
tions in services.
The New York executive argued that 
the American people have got to be 
brought to want to solve the cancer in our 
cities. He answered quickly when asked 
what were the ramifications on our dem
ocracy of corporations taking on the re
sponsibility of solving public problems. 
Democracy? he said,Call our involvement enlightened citizenry._____________
questionnaire several weeks ago to female 
residents and has found that women 
generally feel the apartments ought to be 
shared on a 50-50 basis, but may have to 
compromise for a smaller percentage, 
directly proportional to the number of 
men and women. Naturally, this leans in 
favor of the men, and Marty Lisberger, 
president of WDC, feels that eventually 
proportional distribution of apartments 
will come about. One argument in the 
womens favor is the safety factor, since 
off campus housing poses a safety threat to 
women.
Though the second question has not 
caused quite the uproar, it is equally dis
turbing that women do not have squatters 
rights while men do. Marty pointed out 
that WDC is divided on this issue.
Aside from all the newsworthy 
activities of WDC, it provides many smaller 
services such as the T.V.s, the Morewood 
kitchen and the sewing machine; it gives 
money for floor refrigerator repairs, for 
curb cuts to CRAB ($150); and ($300) to 
Up Your Image, a program on womens 
socialization.
WDC also awards six one-hundred dollar 
scholarships yearly.
Students elected to the Womens Dorm 
Council represent women residents on 
issues concerning campus and dorm 
systems. On February 16 elections will be 
held for the Executive Board (President, 
VP, Secretary, Treasurer) and for the 
Dormitory Court, which includes one chief 
iustice.a-secretaty and eight judges.
by Steve Correll
Student Government President Mike 
Garl and Academic Affairs Board Director 
John Holobinko appear headed for a clash 
over a Student Senate motion that would 
either abolish the AAB or end its independ
ence, bringing it into Senate as a per
manent standing committee with its 
chairman chosen from among the senators. 
The head of AAB is now elected by the 
student body.
In the five years it has existed, it hasnt 
really done a thing, complains Garl, 
saying: We already have enough arms and 
branches of Senate just hanging around and 
we need to get rid of any that dont serve a 
purpose. Advocates of the change 
complain that the AAB is redundant now 
that four students besides the AAB di
rector hold on the Educational Policy 
Committee.
Holobinko denies the AAB has outlived 
its function. The most important thing I 
do is communicate with people in the 
Faculty Senate, with Trustees, the EPC and 
other groups, he said. Rejecting the 
suggestion that a senator could better 
manage the job, he said, Theres no way a 
person can come into this position green. 
You have to have experience with these 
people, to get to know their styles of 
organization, to win their trust . . . Ive 
been asked to stay in my position by 
people on Faculty Senate, the Research 
.Council and other groups.
Some of the opposition to AAB centers, 
on the fact that Holobinko, who ran 
unopposed when first elected a year ago, is 
the sole member of the board as well as its 
director. I cant blame him entirely, says 
Garl, because he did try to organize 
once. Lack of student interest, demonDr. Angel Jordan, chairman of the EE Dept., has jus: been awarded $750,000 as the first 
U.A. & Helen Whitaker Professor of Electronics & Electrical Engineering.
President Richard M. Cyert today 
announced receipt of a $750,000 gift from 
U.A. Whitaker, a CMU graduate and board 
chairman of AMP, Inc., to endow a 
professorship in electronics and electrical 
engineering.
Dr. Angel G. Jordan, an expert in the 
fields of semiconductors and solid state 
electronics, has been chosen as the first 
U.A. and Helen Whitaker Professor of 
Electronics and Electrical Engineering. The 
chair is named for both Whitaker and his 
wife.
Dr. Jordan is head of the electrical 
engineering department and will continue 
in that post while holding the Whitaker 
professorship.
The chair is the first at CMU to be
strated by the uncontested election and by 
lack of membership, is one of the 
opponents major arguments against the 
board. But Holobinko explains that he first 
tried to involve other wtudents but then, 
when no one came to his meetings, began 
to work alond: I decided I would take 
advantage of contacts I had with important 
people on this campus that no other stu
dent had.
Holobinko also complains that Senate 
 . . . gave no help or cooperation at all. I 
asked for publicity and they would put up 
posters the day after my meeting was 
over.
Another complaint against Holobinko 
concerns his refusal to attend Student 
Senate meetings. Nobody can find out 
what hes doing, said Garl. I attend six 
to eight hours of meetings a week, said 
Holobinko,  . .. I dont think the Tuesday 
afternoon dinner club is the best way to 
spend my time.
Holobinko says he stopped sending 
AAB minutes to Senate when Senate lost 
or ignores them; Garl sayd that the former 
Senate Treasurer (who is not on campus 
this semester and so was not available for 
comment) told him one document that 
purported to be minutes of an AAB 
meeting was fabricated by Holobinko. 
Communication between the two organiza
tions apparently broke down entirely last 
fall when Senate sent a demand that 
Holobinko appear before it and Holobinko 
replied with a request that Senate send a
representative before the AAB-and neither 
continued on page 17
Recruiter Discusses 
"Women in Industryft
endowed by an alumnus. Mr. Whitaker, of 
Harrisburg, Pa., earned a bachelor of 
science degree in electrical engineering at 
CMU in 1929.
Im very pleased with such a generous 
gift from an alumnus, President Cyert 
said. This is the type of support CarnegieMellon must have from its graduates if it is 
to prosper as a high quality private 
institution.
Mr. Whitaker, who also holds a bachelor 
of science degree in mechanical engineering 
from Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology and a J.D. from Cleveland Law 
School, became, president, treasurer and 
director of Aircraft-Marine Products, Inc., 
now AMP, in 1941. The firm has 14 wholly 
owned subsidiaries in the United States and 
abroad.________________________________
By Sharon Gurcio
Mary E. Kale, a full-time recruiter and 
representative of Bethlehem Steel Corpor
ation, answered the questions of the 
women engineering and science majors con
cerning the prospects of Women in Indus
try. Ms. Kale, a graduate of Chatham with 
a B.S. in Chemistry', is now engaged in a 
nation-wide program to inform women of 
the lucrative career options and manage
ment positions now available in business 
and industry.
To maximize ones chances to gain a 
choice position Ms. Kale emphasized the 
importance of undergraduate engineering 
courses to qualify for these jobs. Ms. Kale 
also stressed the 27% increase in the 
present job market for engineers with 
many corporations preferring to further 
train engineers with a B. To maximize 
ones chances to gain a choice position Ms. 
Kale emphasized the importance of under
graduate engineering courses to qualify for 
these jobs. Ms. Kale also stressed the 27% 
increase in the present job market for 
engineers with many corporations prefer
ring to further train engineers with a B.S. 
than the already (or self) specialized grad
uate engineers. Despite the liberation furor 
of equal pay and non-discriminatory 
employment, it is interesting to note that 
the college woman earns $5,000 less than a 
similarly educated male and the number of 
women entering the technical sciences has 
remained a constant 1%, although ( MUs 
statistic has increased to an encouraging 
5.8% . Along with the financial promise 
of the open corporate doors, substantial 
legal progress such as the new title seven 
not only protects womens employment 
rights and benefits but enables a woman to 
gain any position if she can p#ove an unjust 
continued on page 17

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 13. 1973
EDITORS MOTE1
By next September, C-MU will have a new structure. It will have two provosts who 
will lie just under the president on the university's organizational flow chart and just above 
the deans.
One provost, Dr. Edward Schatz, will oversee Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Mellon Institute of Science and the college of Fine Arts.
The other provost, Arnold Weber, a highly touted economics expert and adminis
trator from the University of Chicago, will oversee the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration, the School of Urban and Public Affairs and the college of Humanities 
and Social Sciences.
We have been told that this move will serve two primary purposes. First, Dr. Schatz, 
who has been, in effect, a provost over all the colleges, will be relieved of some of his 
load and be able to give CIT, MIS, and Fine Arts all the attention they deserve. Second, 
Arnold Weber, who is supposed to be a plus in himself, will bring a much-needed 
organization and cohesive ness to the Social Sciences. Much of the lack of communication 
and organizational hassles between, for example, SUPA and H&SS over the Social 
Relations department will be taken care of. And they tell us that it certainly won't hurt' 
the humanities.
I suppose everyones first reaction was to this choice of grouping the colleges. Why 
was Fine Arts grouped with the Science oriented schoolsTWhy was H&SS separated from 
the other undergraduate colleges?
The separation was supposedly almost arbitrary. It was emphasized that this com
bination was consciously done,but only as a grouping of activities for academic pur
poses.  An effort appears to have been made to urge cooperation between colleges and 
stop the feeling of diverging interests and goals between schools that some people have 
felt, particularly in Fine Arts.
If the separation had been made on the basis of academic orientation, however, it 
would have been done very differently. Some ^interesting combinations come to mind. 
One of the most intriguing is based on the idea that since the basic conflict in this 
university seems to be between the professionalpeople and those devoted simply to the 
pursuit of knowledge for knowledges sake. Why not group all the Social Sciences with 
CIT and call it the professional school?Then you could group the Humanities together 
with Fine Arts and the Chemists and Mathematicians and Physicists who study for the 
sheer joy of it.
Of course, this kind of grouping would only accentuate the differences that the 
administration is trying to overcome. It would also be somewhat impractical because the 
professionalintellectualconflict is often most visible in the departments.
There is, however, some validity in the idea that similar colleges should be grouped 
together. An administrator is most likely to-serve theneeds of all the students he oversees 
if he can approach their needs from one general perspective-which should coincide with 
his own personal perspective.
Under the present scheme, the Humanities and the college of Fine Arts would seem 
to be in the least favorable position. Arnold Weber is an economist and is more likely to 
be close to the problems of the Social Sciences than the Humanities. Dr. Schatz,on the 
other hand is a former GT faculty member and probably much closer in spirit to 
Engineering and ^Science than to Fine Arts.
Maybe we should have three provosts. Let Arnold Weber bring the Social Sciences 
together. Give Dr. Schatz even more time to concentrate on keeping the excellence in our 
Engineering and Science colleges. And get someone who can spend his time getting the 
money and other resources that the Humanities and Fine Arts desparately need.
Stephen Saunders
Letters
RELEVANT ANNOUNCEMENTS
1. Their will be a full staff meeting of the TARTAN on 
Thursday, February 15. Any interested person may attend.
2. Photos for press passes will be taken at the meeting.
If you need one, come for sure.
3. The staff party has been changed to Friday night, 
Februaryl 6 so that the staff may attend Howdy Doody. 
Hand-drawn maps to where the action is may be
obtained at the office.
Editor:
The TARTAN (January 23, 1973) 
reports the generous gift by the Richard 
King Mellon Foundation of $1 million, of 
which, among other uses, $200,000 is 
earmarked for CIT and $500,000 for a 
discretionary fund to be used for 
maintenance and renovation of University 
facilities.
As a student in one of the affluent 
(and I use the term loosely) engineering 
departments, I suppose I should be over
joyed, but I cant help noticing the 
conspicuous absence of any allocation for 
the College Fine Arts. This oversight, fol
lowing so-closely upon the Universitys 
failure to raise enough money for tjie new 
Fine Arts Building, is truly distressing. A 
recent article in the Pittsburgh Renaissance 
magazine (February, 1973) further points 
up the sad state of affairs in Fine Arts, 
calling CFA the stepchild of the Univer
sity.
While no one disputes the need for, and 
the consequent willingness of industry to 
pay for, the fne engineers this university 
trains, it seems to me to be shameful that 
our excellent school of fine arts should 
suffer so severely in the allocation of 
funds. Art is the joy of life, and it is truly 
sad to see its blossom dying on this 
campus.
I call upon President Cyert to devote 
the larger part of this new discretionary 
fund to the desperately needed renovation 
and expansion of the Fine Arts facilities, as 
an immediate measure, and I hope that this, 
university will assign a higher priority to 
the needs of CFA in the future. That such 
an excellent cultural institution should be 
allowed to die is a tragedy beyond 
measure.
Jeremy Bloom
Editor:
As a writer for the TARTAN it is my 
job to call them as I see them (if I dont 
see them, I make it up). Since personal
commentary is not permitted in the arti
cles, I take out this time to give some 
advice to my peers.
Are you bored with your classes?Your 
work overburdening? Looking for a little 
excitement?Enjoy comedy, but missed the 
Marx Brothers in Squirrel Hill-in other 
words bunkiesI have a sure-cure solution 
for lifting your spirits. Its the Wednesday 
nite 8 p.m. special starring Bob Linn and 
the MDC boys. Seriously, I believe that the 
members do a good job and have accom
plished a lot. They put in their good time 
and effort to plan activities, policy and 
appropriation of money. However, their 
latest meeting was comedy, due to a battle 
between the precedent setters against 
Roberts rules of order. Honestly, after 
that meeting, Im not sure exactly where 
MDC stands on the housing issues. It was 
two hours well spent, in comedy, it is a 
shame, however that some people talk to 
hear themselves talk. To those of you in 
MDC; WDC and the countless other CMU 
organizations that keep our college to
gether(especially without the rhetoric I 
witnessed)Thanks.
Gary Bronheim
' *' ** * - (\'\ JS \
CܡIr7v rara WtTBP ^TS WILL NOT MAKE THE SAME *SSJ THAILAND AS CUP IN VJfiTNAM - WlfH Thl$ I VISION WE HAVE HASTfcNgC THfc APEOUATE PHfPPHAVoti Of MUTNCY BAStS IH YM* COUNTRY
tartan
Editor in Chief .... Stephen Saunders
Business Manager................Alice Bright
Special Editors.........................Mina Gerall
Jeff Ganek
Special Consultant . . .Stephen Jurman
News Editor.............................Gary Singer
Features Editor .... Shelley Burhans 
News and Features Staff . Gary Bronheim 
Craig Collins, Steven Correll 
Sharon Curcio, Brandon Dula 
Laurel Felix, Marc Field 
Anne Friedman, Greg Fulton 
Mike Hill, Chris Infante 
Thomas Lang, Joan McCluskey 
Robin Reiter, Debbie Siegel 
Ellen Steiber
Political Editor.................
Photography Editors . .
. . . Jim Slivka 
... Ed Levine 
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... Henry Uollins 
Ellen Eddy, Bruce Edelston 
Andrea Friedman, Carl Grefenstette 
Dan Goldstein, Greg Nickel 
John Shettel, Frank Stein 
Kevin Scott, Ric Werme
Published every Tuesday during the 
academic year at Car negie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
Entertainment Editor . . Stephen Hamm 
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood 
Nonie Dempsey, Arnie Karr 
Paula.Shubock, Hank Levy 
Steve Perkins, Susan Klein 
Winton Snyder, Jay Corpus 
Doug Stone
Sports Editor ....................Jeff Englund
Sports Staff.......................................Dan Buis
Roger Geddes, David Gird^ny 
Glenn Campbell,D.R. Sullivan 
Bruce Hoffman, Eric Johnson
Political Cartoonist . . Jimmy Marguhes
Layout.....................................Erica Gees
Karla Salvi
Copy Staff .............................Mina Gerall
Cyndy Schmidt
15213. Editorial arid Business offices in 
Skibo 50, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Telephone (412) 682-4557

---------------------------------------------------

MEWS COMMENT
THE TARTANTuesday, February 13, 1973 Page 3
Commentary
Stalking The Wild Peyote
As reported in the last issue of Pittsburgh Rennaisance (excerpts in this issue) the 
College of Fine Arts is not, to say the least, the ideal physical environment for artistic  
instruction. The complaints against the present CFA facilities are well known, as are the 
arguments by the administration concerning the lack of funds, which prevents correction 
of what now seems like a deadly disease.
President Richard Cyert has been quoted as saying Buildings are not the measure of 
quality. It is the faculty that is determinent. I would hope that on this campus we can 
avoid the temptation to build for the sake of having newer and more attractive facilities.  
With roaches crawling up their legs, ceiling tiles falling on their heads, inadequate and 
misplaced practice rooms and rehearsal facilities, the stench of sewage encouraging their 
continued efforts, students and faculty, alike, are becoming determinedly dissatisfied.
The answers to this complex problem are not obvious, and I am not attempting to 
challenge Dr. Cyerts economic expertise. What is obvious is that if these answers are not 
found soon, they will no longer be necessary. CFA LIVES!, BUT FOR HOW LONG?
Gary Singer 
News Editor
Commentary
The Fine Arts Rip-Off
by John Paul
In the midst of an academically 
accelerating university, is the College of 
Fine Arts.
The Architecture department of this 
with it college attempts to be a God. It 
is a department where there is total disconcem for the student, where people who are 
depending on, and rightfully expecting, a 
good education are thrown out without 
any regard, where it is believed that the 
rest of the University revolves around it, 
and where the teachers lack the basic 
necessity of a good teacher: concern.
The student is expected to be a mind 
reader. He is told to build something and 
then have it graded on its ability to please 
the teacher, and not its ability to work. 
The profs, never explain what they want 
done, and never explain why something 
failed. Communication between student 
and professor does not exist.
While most students of Carnegie-Mellon 
University have their basic curriculum 
schedule worked out for them by their 
departments so as to be available whenever 
it is so desired, Architecture students must 
wait until the last minute to find out 
anything and even then not being com
pletely sure. The Architecture department 
expects the student to sit by the wayside 
until the professors decide to acknowledge
by Mike Garl
(Editors note: The following is a reprint of 
the speech delivered last Tuesday by 
Michael S. Garl, President of Student 
Government.)
We are at the beginning of what I 
believe will be one of the greatest periods 
in the history of this institution. There is 
now. more than ever before, an indication 
that Carnegie Tech may at long last 
become Carnegie-Mellon University.
The university born in a feudal period. 
Still remnants ot that. The king. The dukes 
with their colleges. The barons with their 
departments. All fighting their own un
related battles. Now under the watchful 
eye and careful guidance of a new king the 
fighting has been slowed. The dust is 
beginning to settle. But as the dust settles 
it reveals barriers that have been built 
between the colleges and even between the 
departments within colleges. In the eight 
months since Dr. Cyert assumed the duties 
of the president he has reoganized the 
upper echelons to create a more effective
the fact that they must set up some kind of 
schedule. They dont care how much 
inconvenience this causes the student who 
wants to take a course outside C.F.A. The 
great C.F.A. rip-off!
It is true that C.F.A. is a deprived 
college, that the school is the least aided by 
C.M.U., and that the health of the Fine 
Arts building is most questionable. But 
nothing can be done by Carnegie-Mellon 
until something is done first by Dean 
Midani and Delbert Highlands.
I have taken Business courses at a 
different University before coming here to, 
school, Architecture here at C.M.U. and 
also H&SS courses. In a comparison of the 
teachers Fine Arts would have to come out 
shamefully low. It has no one like Weber, 
Sulman, Baim, or Mrs. Fowler, who are all 
of the type of teacher that cares about his 
or her students enough to make sure they 
understand what is being taught and will 
without hesitation talk with a student. And 
this seems to be a rule with the English and 
History Departments. Architecture 
couldnt care less. How can CarnegieMellon University continue to claim a top 
ranking Fine Arts college with teachers 
that dont care, and act as though they 
wished they werent there.
The students of C.F.A., particularly 
Architecture, are being taken advantage of.
and efficient administrative organization. 
An organization dedicated to giving this 
university direction and goals which it has 
lacked for so long. Goals aimed at tearing 
down those barriers between colleges and 
departments. Goals aimed at encouraging 
colleges and departments to work together 
to provide a more rewarding educational 
experience^ for the students.
Unfortunately some of the dukes and 
barons have become so entrenched in their 
dictatorial positions they are still building 
barriers. This time between themselves and 
those who they are dedicated to serving, 
the students. Perhaps one day the reorgan
ization will reach their level and those 
barriers they built will fall along with 
them.
Student Government has also built 
barriers where they should not exist. 1 
think it would be wise for a complete 
evaluation and reorganization of Student 
Government. Now Student Government is 
made up of several bodies, each going their 
own merry way. each unrelated to the 
others. We have MDC, WDC CCCP, UFO,
continued on page 17
by Craig Collins
Hello, its 1973 folks.
Nobody has noticed, but it has 
happened. Somewhere in the last decade, 
drugs have finally made it to the status of 
problem. Horrible stories of overdoses 
fill daily newspapers. Rod Serling hosts 
Needle Gallery over the radio as he warns 
of a drug called speed. Raymond Shafer 
heads a marijuana investigation committee 
(and is ignored by the creator of the 
commission, Richard Nixon). Drugs have 
been receiving a disproportionate share of 
attention from the media.
But all the publicity given to the topic 
merely enhances the dilemma. We are 
flooded with drug news, drug information, 
drug awareness advertisements and the like. 
This situation, designed to enlighten the 
parent in order to eradicate the problem, 
simply drives the drug crisis into that 
category of Token Problems (i.e., VD, 
poverty, racism, war) about which every
one speacks but takes no action. Given the 
tag problem, drugs are transformed into 
some generalized mystical emergency 
about - after all, their kids dont - and 
become apathetic. Rightly so.
But then we are still left to swallow the 
commercials if not the pills. Wherever you 
turn on any dial or any page, the straight
ness pitch is there. During time-outs in 
sports events, rpominent athletes appear on 
the home screen and warn us ot something 
they call drug abuse. The toll-free Heroin 
Hot Line appears and housewives are 
encouraged to turn in pushers. The media 
has become drug-paranoid, with the result 
that we must check that rising tide before 
they brainwash us all with that crap. If the 
advertising council only realized how much 
money they are wasting . . .
The remainder of this article deals with 
classifying and demystifying these anti
drug spots, just as the drugs themselves 
needto be demystified. The commercials 
are just making that task harder. Adver
tisers are making some bad andwasteful 
assumptions. First, drug propaganda just
ifies its existence by assuming that drug 
abuse can be checked through the 
informing of the public. It makes it no 
easier for parents to confron their children 
with the situation however, and the kids 
aren't going to be the first to talk from 
simply seeing a drug spot. Secondly, the 
anti-drug ads seem aimed at the minority 
of hard-drug users (who will probably stay 
that way in spite of the campaign) as if 
they comprised the whole of drug use. The 
commercials are misdirected. Most label all 
drug-taking in any quantity as abuse, a 
term not agreed upon between physicians
and police. The commercials also neglict 
entirely the reasons behind drug-taking, 
simply replying Dont. That is supposed 
to helpTThe ads offer no alternatives other 
than the benefits of the straight life, which 
the drug user has already tried and 
abandoned.
Thus some of the fallacies are exposed. 
What of the (ineffectiveness of the anti
drug ads themselves'Below are listed a few 
of the predominant types of drug propa
ganda one may see and hear from the 
media of America, with some comments
'jnrl i'jt intK
TYPE ONE: Anti-Endorsements
Personality: some Figure popular with 
youth (athlete, black comedian, rock 
musician).
Content: Dont experiment, kids.
Sometimes there are bad trips. Some day 
you may wake up insane, or dead.
Emphasis: Life is better than drugs. 
Aimed at potential users.
Language: Sincere, uses expressions
currently in vogue among the youth of 
three years ago.
Effectiveness: Doubtful. No 15 year old 
can be expected to turn down his first joint 
on the basis of something Bill Cosby told 
him on TV.
TYPE TWO: Drugs-An Illegal Bad Trip
Personality: a plitician, government
official, or some voice intended to
represent our Federal Bureaucracy.
Content: Still photos of youth
screaming and acting neurotic. Scary, huh. 
Ends with one subject dying with needle in 
arm.
Emphasis: Health hazard. Expensive. 
Look at all the crimes caused. Aimed at 
wavering parents.
Language: Hard-nosed and explicit.
Effectiveness: Negligible. Parents still 
believe that only deviants take drugs,
having stereotyped drug use into certain
socio-economic classes. This ad merely 
strengthens their convictions. Parents and 
children may still keep their respectable 
distances.
TYPE THREE: Ive Been Thete
Personality: a former drug user.
Content: It was a real downer on drugs, 
man. Some of my best friends were on 
drugs, and like, theyre both dead now. 
Sniff.
Emphasis: Drug addiction. Quit before 
they hook you. Aimed at all listeners of 
WDVE who shoot up.
Language: Testimonial with appropriate 
narrative to retain the element of 
apprehension.
Effectiveness: After hearing two
thousand times about Chris and her methshooting friends, ones ears begin to 
harden.
TYPE THREE (Special): My Daughter 
Was There 
Personality: Art Linkletter.
Content: Dont take drugs (my daughter 
flipped out). A menace to young people 
(my daughter jumped from a window).
Emphasis: Acid is bad for you. Aimed 
it good clean kids and their parents.
Language: House Party interview with 
the five-year-olds.
Effectiveness: Kids take the damdest 
things.
State of the University

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 13, 1973
CFA Bldg. Unworthy of Drama Dept
Editor's Note: The plight of the College of Fine Arts and especially the Drama 
Department, has been an extremely sensitive, to say the least, issue since the 
abandonment of the planned construction of a Fine Arts (Drama) complex. The 
Pittsburgh Renaissance in its last issue, published an excellent article dealing with 
the CMU Drama Departments excellence and problems. In line with its policy of 
enlightenment for constructive change,  the TARTAN decided to reprint choice 
sections of this article. Many thanks to the Rennaissance for the permission to 
reprint and for the publicity it provided for Drama.
by Eugenie Bolger
When word got around that the success
ful musical Godspell was originally a 
masters thesis at Carnegie-Mellons drama 
school, CMU attracted a lot of visitors. 
They came to see the plush drama depart
ment that could train a playwright such as 
John-Michael Tebelak, the well-heeled 
school that yields a dazzling roster of 
notable alumni. What visitors find is a 
troop of hard-working people crowded into 
facilities of little or no plumbing. But, a 
drama school which produces a lot of good 
theatre.
Each year four plays, all performed by 
drama department upper-classmen and 
directed by a member of the faculty, are 
selected for production on the main stage 
of CMUs College of Fine Arts. Local buffs 
proclaim these productions (the only 
drama department work open to the 
public) the finest theater available in Pitts
burgh. Performances are never advertised, 
and tickets are hard to come by. About 
800 Pittsburghers, not counting students, 
saw Under the Gaslight last fall. 
Although the department enjoys a 
reputation as the finest undergraduate 
drama school in the United States, and 
numbers some of the most gifted theater 
people in the country among its graduates - 
Sada Thompson, Nancy Marchand, Jack 
Klugman, Arthur Kennedy, William Ball, 
Ellis Rabb, and Howard Bay are just a few - 
in the citys cultural life, the department is 
strictly a bit player.
Even on campus, the department plays 
its stellar role almost by chance. When 
Andrew Carnegie approached the mayor of 
Pittsburgh in 1900 with an offer of funds 
to establish the Carnegie Technical 
Schools, there were no plans for a College 
of Fine Arts. Those came much later, and 
were the creation, not of Carnegie, but of 
Henry Hornbostel, founder of a wellknown atelier in New York, and the 
architect engaged to design the campus. It 
was he who drew up plans for a building to 
house a College of Fine Arts, presented 
them to the Board of Trustees, and per
suaded the Board and Andrew Carnegie to 
go ahead with them.
The new college combined music, 
architecture, painting, sculpture, design, 
and drama under one roof. It was a de
parture from accepted practice in the year 
1912, and the inclusion of drama among 
these disciplines was even more unusual. 
No self-respecting actor of that period 
admitted to receiving formal training. 
Theater people learned their craft in bits 
and pieces by traveling with road 
companies. The College of Fine Arts at the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology (as it was 
then called) was to change all this. It was 
the first school in the country to offer a 
degree in theater arts, and the first to make 
formal training respectable.
The new curriculum was based on a 
simple but revolutionary concept: to learn 
by doing. Students were to prepare for 
theatrical careers by practicing the required 
skills in a school that functioned as a 
laboratory for theater arts. The idea proved 
so sound that even today, although new 
courses have been added, old one dropped,
and the curriculum subjected to regular 
review, this basic approach remains 
unaltered.
Getting in is hard, and staying in is even 
harder. Each students work is reviewed at 
the end of his freshman year, and those 
who do not measure up are asked to leave. 
The long hours and demanding schedules 
take their tolls of others, who, recognizing 
their own limitations, choose to pursue 
other careers.
Ironically, the acclaim for Godspell, 
and with it, increased public awareness of 
the school, was raised at about the same 
time a $6.6 million fund drive to 
modernize and expand the schools 
facilities went down in defeat. In 
September 1972, news went out that the 
fund drive was still $4 million short of its 
goal, and plans for a new theater and class
room building would be abandoned. The 
gloom in the drama department was thick 
enough to slice.
A tour of the college quickly shows 
why. Classrooms are small and poorly 
maintained. In one basement room where 
the windows all open onto a noisy vent, 
student actors have to choose between 
sweltering and being heard. In another 
basement room, five professors, share 
office space with the technical and design 
departments. The room is a jumble of over
flowing bookcases, paint pots, set models, 
and props. On one wall, a six-foot patch of 
peeling paint and plaster marks the spot 
where a drainpipe leaked.
The workshop theater, set up in a 
temporary building erected fifteen years 
ago, seats 90 people (all 246 drama stu
dents are expected to attend studio pro
ductions). Among other things, the 
building is without running water.
Like the workshop theater, the main 
theater is beset by problems that seem 
without solution short of a building pro
gram. It is widely believed that the 
400-seat, French neo-classic theater in the 
College of Fine Arts was originally de
signed as a concert hall, and never intended 
for theatrical productions.
(Professor James Robertson of the 
Department of Architecture, an authority 
on Hornbostel, disputes this. Describing 
the large - for its time - backstage area and 
the overhead flies for storing scenery, none 
of which would be necessary in a recital 
hall, he suggests that Hornbostel 
deliberately misrepresented the purpose of 
his hall in order to persuade Carnegie, no 
lover of theater, to build it.) Whatever its 
original function, the theater does not lend 
itself to modern staging.
Only the lighting system is up-to-date. 
Installation this year of a new $35,000 
light board makes possible the automatic 
recording and storage of information, 
eliminates the time-consuming process of 
hand-setting each light cue, and makes it 
easy for a number of students to use the 
light board. A console with 60 dimmers, 
one for each light in the theater, can be 
mounted on a carriage and wheeled to the 
back of the theater when light intensities 
are set. The new equipment more nearly 
approximates the kind students will en
counter in professional theaters. Still 
needed is a modern light grid that will 
allow a director to light - and work in 
playing areas close to the audience.
Baker Salsbury, assistant head of the 
drama department, is worried, not only 
about finding a solution to these problems, 
but with the effect of the fund drive failure 
on faculty morale. All this has done some
thing to the energies of a lot of people, he 
says. The huge unrecognized fact is that it 
is not easy to stay number one when 
people have a vast well of disappointment 
trapped inside them.
Akram Midani recognizes and under
stands the disappointment and feels it will 
pass. Space is not the most important 
thing. People and programs are what 
count.
More classroom and work space is 
coming, most of it made available by the 
curtailment of programs at adjoining 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College. It is 
hardly the ideal solution the department 
envisioned, but there will be 9000 
additional square feet of usable space, in
cluding 1900 square feet for a muchneeded rehearsal room. Still, most of these 
improvements will not be enjoyed until 
September 1973. In the meantime, Dean 
Midani points to the excellent production 
of Under the Gaslight, and an equally 
fine piece of work by Israel Hicks last 
December. This is not the work of dis
couraged people, he says.
People and programs may be number 
one but Baker Salsbury is uneasy, neverthe
less. Look at it this way, he says. A kid 
wants to study theater. Everybody knows 
about CMU. Most of the best kids apply 
here. But some of the very best do more 
than apply. They look. They go to Cali
fornia (Institute of the Arts), they go to 
Julliard, and then they come here. And 
they look around and they say, Youve got 
to be kidding.
The essential conflict, he says, is 
between those who are concerned with 
what the best training should be, and the 
pragmatists, those who are concerned with 
making the best use of whats available. 
Space planners come in here with all kinds 
of ideas for renovation. They say, Well, we 
can knock out this wall. That should give 
you enough room. But even if you knock 
out the wall, youve got supporting 
columns that you cant remove that ob
struct your space. How can a dancer move 
in a straight line when theres a column in 
the way?You cant understand what the 
needs and problems are unless you teach 
and work here.
When Charles Altman was in London, a 
friend introduced him to Sir Laurence 
Olivier. Sir Laurence spoke highly of the 
work being done at CMU, and apologized 
for his modest headquarters at the National 
Theater. You must be used to splendid 
surroundings at a school like yours, Sir 
Laurence remarked, going on to say he 
assumed CMU had at least fourteen 
theaters. Only awe prevented Altman from 
laughing. Sir Lawrence was incredulous 
when told the true state of affairs.
How extraordinary, he said. And in 
America, too.
ABORTION
INFORMATION
ABORTION GUIDANCE
An Abortion can be arranged within 24 
hour* and you can return home the same day you leave I
CALL TOLL FREE
(800)523-4436
A Non-Profit Organisation 
open 7 days a week
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL
UUUNGMtlAND1HMCVIR
ONE AFTERNOON ONLY 
Saturday, February 24  2:30 P.M. Heinz Hall
Miss Gish, in person, tells about her greaLcareer in 
Hollywood, the early days, the films she made, the 
celebrities who starred with her. The clips she uses 
as illustration are from films that are now tfie great
movie classics.
Tickets: $2.50, $3.50, $4.50
.it Hein/ Hall Box Office (28I-5O), Gimbels, 
Horne's, Kaufmann's and National Record Marts. 
20.' discount to students at Heinz Hall Box Office.
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS
THE TARTANTuesday, February 13, 1973Page 5
Last Chance! Today is the last day to buy
Valentine candy from the Cwens. Orders 
are being taken in Baker Hall from 10 to 3 
toady, and in Morewood Lobby from 4 to
7 tonight. Special deliveries will be made. 
Only $1.00 for a 4 oz. box of candy. Get 
yours now!
Renowned cellist Guy Fallot and pianist
Emmanuelle Lamasse will perform at a 
faculty-student convocation at CarnegieMellon University Thursday, February 15, 
at 12:30 p.m. The concert will be held in 
Exhibition Hall, in the Fine Arts Building 
and is free and open to the public. Mr. 
Fallot and Miss Lamasse, his sister-in-law, 
make several extensive tours a year. This 
year they will be playing in the U.S., 
Canada, New Zealand, the Far East and 
Latin America.
Carnegie Theater Dinner Specials will again
be served by the Food Service in the Kiltie 
Coffee House, February 15 through 
February 24, 1973, 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. 
Complete dinner includes: Appetizer
(Shrimp Cocktail, $1.25 extra), Entree, 2 
Vegetables or 1 Vegetable and Salad, 
Beverage. A La Carte dinner: Charge made 
for each item.
As part of the Satruday Children's Program
the YWCA is showing "Gay Purr-ee", a
o feature length cartoon about a French 
country cat who goes to the big city. 2:30 
Saturday February 17, Porter Hall 100. 
Admission $.50.
The free gynecologist program for CMU
students is in full operation and will be 
until May 1, 1973. Contact Peer Help, 
Skibo Information desk or Health Service 
> for information.
Thinking of Graduate School?If so, you
are welcome to use the Alumni Office's 
lists to contact the CMU alumni who are at 
the schools you are considering. CMU has 
more than 4,000 alumni who are graduate 
students, faculty members and administra
tors at Colleges and Universities across the 
country. Such a contact might help you 
learn more about the academic environ
ment of that particular school. Any stu
dent interested in utilizing the lists for this 
purpose should see Jerry Kleinman in the 
Alumni Office, 5th floor of Warner Hall.
The New American Movement is a socialist
alternative to the problems faced by our 
) country. This is an opportunity to engage 
in meaningful political activitu for real 
social change. There will be an intro
ductory meeting to acquaint the C-MU 
campus community with the New 
American Movement on Wednesday, 
February 14th at 4:30 p.m. in Room 45, 
Skibo.
Several young engineers will discuss their
post-graduation experiences at the next 
A.S.C.E. smoker on Wednesday, February 
21, 8:00 p.m. at Kappa Sigma.
The film Workshop will present the first in
its biweekly series of meetings and speakers 
on Wednesday, February 14th at 8:00 p.m. 
in room 46 of Skibo. The speaker will be 
Phil Curry of the Pittsburgh Filmmakers 
Association, who will show his films and 
speak about them. Open to the public.
Veterans! An ROTC scholarship Board will
convene on February 21, 1973, at the 
Military Science Department to determine 
recipients of 3 and 2 yr. ROTC scholar
ships. Veterans interested in an ROTC 
scholarship are invited to be interviewed. 
Call extension 281 or 282 for details.
Penguin Discount TicketsThe Pittsburgh
Penguins will play the New York Islanders 
on Thursday, February 22 at 7:30 p.m.at 
the Civic Arena. Regular $5.50 seats at 
center ice are now available at the Skibo 
Information Desk for only $3.50. Only a 
limited number are available.
Commuters and off-campus residentsThe
Housing Office still has several choice 
dormitory rooms available for rental by 
day, week, month or year. Stop at the 
Housing Office, Morewood Gardens 1-A-1, 
or call 683-3436 about our reasonable 
rates.
COMMUTERS: Still looking for a ride?
Why not check the Pitt-CMU Car pool list? 
Information Desk, Skibo.
Tickets for the Inauguration of Richard M.
Cyert as sixth president of Carnegie-Mellon 
University will be available to faculty, staff 
and students beginning Monday, February
19, 1973, in the Department of Public 
Relations, Baker Hall 160. The inaugura
tion will be held on Friday, March 9, 1973, 
at 2 p.m. in the Ballroom of Skibo with Dr. 
Howard R. Bowen, Chancellor of the 
Claremont University Center in California, 
as guest speaker. Responding to Dr. 
Bowen's address, Dr. Cyert will project in 
his address the goals and responsibilities of 
Carnegie-Mellon University under his 
leadership. Classes will not be cancelled for 
the Inaugural ceremonies, but faculty, staff 
and students who wish to attend the 
ceremonies are welcome to do so.
Third Annual Soap Box Derby. First Prize
$100. Sponsored by the Engineering 
Student Cabinet, University of Pittsburgh, 
the event will be held on Thursday, March 
15, 1973, starting time 12:30 p.m. Open to 
entry by any student or group in the 
Pittsburgh area; entries are due February 
21. Rules are available at the Pitt Student 
Union, 121 Benedum Hall or at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
Artists who have artwork in the Students'
Gallery from previous shows must remove 
it from the Gallery before February 28. 
After that date it will become property of 
the Gallery.
An original ensemble production will
premiere in Sheraden on March 19, 21, & 
22 titled "Now is the Time: A Community 
Ritual". The play highlights the problems 
that affect a community when their zoning 
status changes from residential to light 
industry. The play is produced by the City 
of Pittsburgh, Department of Parks and 
Recreation's newest dynamic drama 
program, the Pittsburgh Workshop Theatre. 
"Now is the Time" will go into perform
ance on Monday, Wednesday, and 
Thursday, March 19, 21, and 22 at 8:00 
p.m. in the Langley High School Auditor
ium. Admission is free and the perform
ances are open to the public. For more 
information contact Stan Soucie at 
281-3900, Ext. 689 or 431-7979.
Gay Alternatives Pittsburgh will sponsor a
Pre-Valentines Day Dance on Friday, 
February 9, 1973 at 8 p.m. Held at the 
First Unitaiian Church, Ellsworth and 
Morewood Avenues in Shadyside, the 
dance is another ot GAP's attempts to 
provide social alternatives for district gay 
people and friends. A donation of $1.00 is 
payable at the door. Refreshments will be 
available. GAP also sponsors a coffeehouse 
at the Unitarian Church on Saturday 
evenings. Held in a relaxing, informal 
atmosphere, refreshments are available and 
there is no admission chatge.
All Junior and Senior teaching option
students in English and Economics, 
History, Psychology, and Social Relations 
are invited to a discussion, "The Realities 
of Student Teaching in the Public 
Schools", Wednesday, February 14, 1973, 
4:30 p.m., Skibo Room 46.
The Metropolitan Opera National Council
will hold auditions to discover new oper
atic talent in the Pittsburgh district on 
Sunday, February 11, at Carnegie-Mellon 
University. The Public is invited to attend 
the auditions at 1:30 p.m. in the exhibition 
Hall of the Fine Arts Building. The audi 
tions have been held annually the past 18 
years and. have led a large number of 
singers to stardom with the Metropolitan 
Opera Company of New York.
The New American Movement is
sponsoring a party to celebrate the signing 
of the Peace Treaty in Vietnam. The party 
will take place at the Unitarian Church 
(Morewood and Ellsworth Avenues in 
Shadyside) on February 17, Saturday, 
beginning at 8 p.m. The $1.50 admission 
charge will cover the cost of live enter
tainment, beer and pretzels. All peaceloving people are invited to attend.
Anyone who submitted photos for the
Photo Contest may pick them up at the 
TARTAN office.
Gone to any good meetings lately?Vou say
you haven't? Then come to ours. On 
Sunday, March 4th, at 7:00 p.m. in the 
Faculty Dining Room in Skibo, Mortar 
Board, the senior women's honorary is 
holding a gathering for all CMU women 
interested in becoming a part of Mortar 
Board next year. If you will be a senior 
next semester or will have completed 
5/8ths of your college work, and currently 
have at least a 3.00 Q.P.A., we cordially 
invite you to attend. Interested?lf so, let 
us know you'll be there. RSVP by 
February 26th by either leaving your 
name, major, and mailing address at the 
information desk in Skibo, or by calling 
Jan Polansky at 372-2576.
Canoe, Kayak & Sailing Craft. See us at the
Boat Show, Civic Arena, Feb. 7-11. Sawyer 
Fiberglass Canoe/Michicraft whitewater 
alum, canoe, Klepper Folding Kayak' & 
Sailboats/OIdtown, Sea Snark, Sunflower 
Sealark, Wildflower. Butterfly. Sailboats 
from $119 to $695. Free demonstration 
and class lessons. 701 Wood St. 
Wilkinsburg, 371 4801.
FREE PUPPIES to take away the winter
blahs. Half pointer and half dalmation. 9 
weeks old. Call 963 8740 after 4 p.m.
Draft Counseling provided by Attorney
without charge. Sponsored by Bnai B'rith 
Hillel Foundation, 215 S. Bellefield, 3rd 
floor. Every Tuesday evening 7 to 8:30 
p.m. 621-8875
WantedLionel 0.027, Super 0 and
standard gauge trains. Call 335-7922 after
7 p.m.
Russia for sale! Educational Holiday - 4
days Moscow3 days Leningrad. First class 
with bath, all meals, sightseeing, and trans
fers, including Ballet or Circus each city. 
$399, plus 10% for visas, taxes and ser 
vices. Departure date March 24, 1973. Call 
Ms. Zhivago at 391-4499 or wr ite Scandin
avian Airlines, 2 Penn Center, Philadelphia, 
Pa. 19102.
The third in a series of lectures, sponsored
by the Carnegie-Mellon University depart
ment of English and featuring American 
writers, will be held on Tuesday, February
20. The lecturer will be Stanley L. Elkin, 
novelist and short story writer. Among his 
novels are "A Bad Man , The Dick 
Gibson Show" and "Boswell". He has also 
written a collection of short stories, "Criers 
and Kibitzers, Kibitzers and Criers". His 
other short stories have appeared in 
Harper's, Paris Review, Esquire, and 
Saturday Evening Post. He will read from 
his own works in Breed Hall of Margaret 
Morrison College at 11:30 a.m. The lecture 
is free and open to the public.
If you want to explore career opportun
ities, the Career Seminars, scheduled for 
February 12-15, 12:00 noon to 3:30 p.m. 
in Pitt's Student Union Ballroom are an 
excellent place to start. During the 
upcoming Seminar series careers in Social 
Work and Urban Affairs (February 12), 
Education and Related Areas (February 
13), Career Opportunities for Blacks 
(February 14), and Seminar in Majors and 
Programs of Study at Pitt (February 15) 
can be explored with the help of estab
lished professionals in each of these fields. 
The program is open to all individuals 
concerned about their vocational future. 
The professional participants will make no 
formal presentations, but will speak to 
individuals frankly on a one-to-one basis 
concerning the problematic as well as 
positive experience^ which they face in 
their work.
The University of Pittsburgh Folk Dance
Club is sponsoring a folk dance workshop 
on. Saturday, February 17th. Jonnie 
Boudreau, a popular leader and former 
teacher of the group, will present dances 
from Armenia and South America as well 
as many old favorites. There will be two 
sessions, 1 p.m. at Trees Hall Gymnasium, 
opposite Pitt's Field House and 8 p.m. at 
the Student Union Ballroom, Schenley 
Hall. All are invited. Beginners are 
welcome!
For SaleGuitar. Harmony Rocket hollow
*body electric. Easy to play. Soft case, cord, 
capo and picks included. $45. About $110 
new. I need the money to pay for the 
Yamaha FG-600 I just bought. Inquire at 
TARTAN office or call 687-3713. Ask for 
Steve Saunders.
HEGEMAN STEREO SPEAKERS
"Hegeman ... the next best thing to being 
there."Rolling Stone
"... regardless of price, I would be hard 
put to find a speaker more genuinely 
musical than Hegeman."Opera news
Your ears deserve the best. Hear them. 
687-3262.
PERSONALS
Anna Baby,
Well that does it . .. How could you do 
this to me after all we've been through. 
And what about that time at Roosevelt 
Field?I thought you were serious when 
you told me that Ed Levine was my type. 
It's too late for apologies. Mitch has given 
me his ring, and I'm afraid you know what 
that means.
Classified Ads

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 13, 1973
What's All This BrouHAHA???
In a month from now, the students of C-MU can 
participate in bringing about meaningful change, for 
that is the time of the Student Senate elections. Now 
is your chance to get involved, get into a diverse 
group of people and make a lasting impression.
The position of President of Student 
Government is open this time and petitions are due 
March 7 at 5:00 PM just as they are for the senators. 
Also there are other positions on the ballot. 
Numerous college council seats will be included in the 
election.
The position ot president , of Student 
Government is open this time and petitions are due 
March 7 at 5:00 PM just as they are for the senators. 
Also there are other positions on the ballot. 
Numerous college council seats will be included in the 
election.
We want to make sure certain that the interested 
and qualified candidates get their names on the 
ballot. We've got sr little booklet put together to give 
you a look into senate and some of the inside 
information on how you can get elected.
Available at SKIBO, Morewood, and GSIA and 
probably other places in a few days:
"What's all this BROU-HA-HA?
SATURDAY, FEB. 17, 19738:00 P.M. SKIBO BALLROOM
Tickets are Carr with CMU I.D. and $1.50 without
FREE buttons, balloons and candy.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, February 13, 1973 Page 7
Interview
SVEGUfRRD
JANE FONDA  DONALD SUTHERLAND  PETER BOYLE
"STEELYARD BLUES" A BILL/PHILLIPS Production 
Co-Starring GARRY GOODROW  HOWARD HESSEMAN  JOHN 
SAVAGE  Written by DAVID S. WARD  Executive producer DONALD 
SUTHERLAND - Produced by TONY BILL MICHAEL & JULIA PHILLIPS 
Directed by ALAN MYERSON  TECHNICOLOR*
UP PAftENTAl GUKM*CE SUGGESTED ] ( oMGm* SOUND *AC*1 II I  j  Mr* COM*
CaMbrlUmg torn** '<> Mm A Mno Co#*
Kings Court Now Showing
FORBES AVE. OAKLAND 682 2334
Akram Midani, Dean of Fine Arts
them, become over-zealous in the treat
ment of their black students, and this is 
commendable. I think we have to keep in 
mind that we owe every student the 
opportunity to receive a high quality 
education. And the Mack students should 
also have this opportunity. But sometimes, 
without meaning it, we dont alert the 
black students to difficult areas that they 
have to become aware of as early as possi
ble. And then suddenly we realize that 
there is a problem.
TARTAN: What do you mean by diffic
ulties?
A.M.: Professionally-like for instance,
whether the students need more develop 
ment of talent or training in this or that. 
We should do this as early as possible and 
relate to the students performance realis
tically. You see, I spend a great deal of my 
time reading the writings of black philos
ophers like Fanon, Senghor and Cesaire. 
They insisted that to treat the black man 
with meaningless charity is very much like 
prejudice because you do not establish an 
authentic relationship. And you know who 
told me this toothe black students. They 
want to know as early as possible. If they, 
happen to be in need of further training, 
they want to know as early as possible. 
C-MAP pays attention to a very important 
factor. The task is not just to enroll black 
students but the task actually is to grad
uate them after they receive this high qual
ity education. Now the way I understand 
it, C-MAP demands a great deal from the 
students because they want them to have a 
collective spirit. I think this is commend
able. You see, professional education is a 
total commitment and people get some
what edgy and tired from the pace some
times and we have really to work it out. 
This is what I said-we have to diagnose 
individual cases and look into them and 
work on them. 1 think the situation is 
developing more of an awareness of ones 
self as one really is. Its almost - there is a 
black term for it - its Negritude. Its an 
awareness of ones own attributions and 
heritage of being black, being creative, 
being capable of sharing. And this term 
continued on page 12
If you cant beat em... 
driveem crazy!
By Shelley Burhans
Editors Note: Akram Midani, named Dean of Fine Arts on July 1,1972,traveled four continents before coming to Pittsburgh. Bom in Damascus, Syria and educated in Cairo, Midani has worked as actor, producer, director, and critic. In 1965, after holding a diplomatic position at the United Nations, he came to C-MU to teach in the Drama Department. I came, I liked it, 1stayed for dinner... he explains. Excerpts from a TARTAN interview with Dean Midani follow:
degrees are not that specified. There will be 
no dance classes the way the dance classes 
used to be when the program was function
ing. There, will be dance, classes in relation 
to the acting classes and the students 
accepted this option.
Photo by Kevin Scott
TARTAN: Theres been some hearsay 
about a rift between black students and the 
rest of the department.
A.M.: In Drama in particular?I think the 
education of black students is a very 
important situation and let me reflect on it 
in general in the Fine Arts. Ive been hold
ing meetings about this with Marion Oliver 
from C-MAP and Department Heads. I 
started with Design and Music and am 
going to do it with other department 
heads. During these meetings we go 
through a diagnostic process. We take every 
single case where a student may have 
academic difficulties, and we examine it, 
we study it, we comment on it, and we try 
to remedy the situation. But let me tell 
you the actual problem the way I see it. 
Some schools, and maybe ours is one of
TARTAN: How long did you teach in the 
Drama Department?
A.M.: Since 1965. I taught dramatic litera
ture and theatre aesthetics. I also taught 
with the English Department. When Gladys 
Schmitt initiated a program call a Survey 
of Genres, I was one of the teachers who 
taught the criticism component of this 
course for about three years. I kept teach
ing it actually until last year. Last year, in 
addition to this, I taught another seminar 
in the English Department devoted to the 
Arabian Nights, which is something that 
Ive been reading since my boyhood and I 
thought it might be about time to share 
this experience with the students. I was 
very excited; I think the students liked it, 
judging from their participation and from
 their papers.
TARTAN: What did you think of that art
icle, by the way, in the Pittsburgh REN
AISSANCE?
I think the Drama Department is a very 
strong department. There are reasons why 
actually it is not just a mystique. First of 
all, when I became a dean everyone said, of 
course, hes going to see that the Drama
+ Department is the best department because 
thats his department. But I cannot deny 
the truth. It is strong because it has stuck 
to fundamentals. I think in the teaching of 
the arts, this is an essential situation. The 
Drama Department went through periods 
when there was pressure to emulate the 
Uving Theater, and emulate other fashion
able trends, but it refused to anything of
^ this sort and continued to be a department 
for the fundamental teaching of the theater 
arts. I think there is a little problem with 
the Drama Department. Its because its 
exposed to the public. Sometimes the pub
lic makes demands on the Drama Depart
ment, that they would like to see this show 
or that. I think this is a very complex 
relationship. We like our public. We
 actually take a great deal of care as far as 
informing our patrons and we like them 
to come. But also, at the same time, I 
would like our public to know that we 
are engaged in an educational process and 
they are invited to witness this educational 
process. You cant really deny the students
this educational experience and the opportunity to experiment with roles because 
you want to make it with your audience. 
As soon as we dont think this way, then 
we are no longer a school.
TARTAN: You stated that there was a 
mixture of excitement, ecstasy and con
cern which makes freshmen in the F.A. 
different from freshmen in other depart
ments. What do you attribute this to?l
0 guess its almost a stereotype quality of an 
artist. Is it the subjectivityTThe challenge 
of extreme discipline?The demand to be 
creative?
A.M.: For the freshmen there is an act of 
negation that preceeded coming to school, 
coming to an art school. I can judge from 
my own experience. When I decided to go 
to drama school, my family wanted me to
* be a lawyer, to be a doctor, to go into a 
much more secure profession. And I some
how started my freshman year at drama 
school feeling full of defiance, that Ive 
done it, Im here, its an art school. I dont 
know whats going to happen next, but Im 
going to be here. 1 think its an exciting 
thing and that you have done something on 
your own. Its individuation, that you 
f have really reached a point where you are
Akram Midani, dean of Fine Arts
doing something outside of your own tribe. 
And very rarely do I see parents trying tQ 
encourage their students into mysterious 
areas such as the arts.
TARTAN: Are a great deal of the students 
from that kind of background, where the 
parents are not themselves particularly 
artistically inclined?
A.M.: Some of the kids are from artistical
ly inclined parents, but sometimes, believe 
it or not, particularly in the theater profes
sion, the parents hesitate a great deal when 
they send their kids to drama school. But 
mostly the kids are not from artistic back
grounds.
TARTAN: Do you think that the dropping 
of the dance option is going to be any kind 
of a loss to the theater department?
A.M.: I dont think so actually, becuase I 
think we cant really go on and do every: 
thing that everybody wants us to do. The 
problem is that we always should do what 
we c?n do best and we must not entertain 
any wishful thinking that we can do every
thing. There are lots of art forms that we 
dont really do here. Like we dont have a 
film department. All right, somebody said 
you must have a film department. But 
within our limitations, within our means, 
within our capabilities, either we do a 
program thats so strong, so professional
ly built and designed and created with a 
sense of direction towards its future, or we 
drop it. Somehow we started the dance 
program with a grant from the outside. We 
couldnt get more funds for it and we 
realized that we had either to continue the 
program as a atep child or to drop it. And 
to continue the program as a step child is 
the most dangerous thing that you can do. 
It was a painful decision but it was a 
decision based on whether we can move 
this program in a strong direction without 
weakening other programs, and whether we 
could obtain a chance for more funding. 
We did our best while we were being 
funded from the outside.
TARTAN: Will the students enrolled now 
finish with a degree in theatre dance?
A.M.: As a result of phasing out the pro
gram, the faculty held conferences with all 
the students, individually. And each stu
dent selected a direction to continue till 
graduation. They will finish with a degree, 
'a BFA degree in Drama. Actually, the

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 13, 1973
(Editors Note: The following was submitted by the Womens Dorm Council in 
preparation for a referendum to beheld on Friday, February 16, 1973. The TARTAN 
has published this in order to promote student concern for this election, but we hold 
no responsibility for its contents completeness or accuracy.)
1. WDC Priorities
At the present time the executive board members of Womens Dorm Council have 
first room choice oveT.any women resident; council members have first room selection 
priority over any member of her class. Do you feel this policy should be continued?
If is the only compensation WDC 
members get for the hard work they do. 
Although no student leaders receive pay
ment for their work, there are several 
campus positions which do: most AB 
members get paid for their physical labor, 
WDC pays for the Drug Store managers, 
and the TARTAN reviewers receive a pair 
of free tickets to the shows and movies. 
When people receive some compensation 
the quality of their work and responsibility 
increases. Finally, the voting members only 
have priority over their class, and high 
priority students would not be losing 
spaces to upper classmen.
Con
There should be no reason why a WDC 
representative or exec, board member 
should have to receive any kind of compen 
sation for being a member of council. After 
all, Senate members do not receive any 
compensation for their work, nor do MDC 
members, TARTAN staffers, or any other 
people who serve the campus community. 
With the new constitution, members will 
be elected in the fall and room draw is in 
the springTherefore the possibility exists 
for the 36 choice spaces to be occupied 
before any other dorm resident is allowed 
to participate in room draw.
2. Apartment Division
For the first time, men will be allowed to live in campus apartments. According 
to the Housing proposal for room draw, men and women will choose randomly untill 
all spaces are filled. We feel that a certain proportion should be established for 
allocation of apartment space. Of the following three proposals do you prefer?
1)50-50
2) random selection (i.e. proportional to 
the number of men and women living on 
campus (2:1))
3) The random selection system will evolve 
over a 2 tjo 3 year period. The women will 
retain their 55 spaces until there are 
enough apartments to establish the pro
portion of men to women on campus 
without the women losing any spaces.
3. Squatters Rights
At present all residents of the mens undergraduate dormitories, and the residents 
of the co-ed dormitory (Welch Hall) have squatters rights. These rights give one the 
first priority on his own room for the next year. A person who claims his squatters 
rights will get his room for the next school year unless, for instance, the dorm is being 
changed to a different form of housing, or for some other reason it is physically 
impossible for a person to occupy that room.
Under the present rules to claim squatters rights you must have a roommate for 
the next year, who may or may not be the roommate you presently have.
Under the proposed lottery type room draw system, a person will draw a number 
determining his precedence in the room draw. After he gets his number, he will be 
asked if he wants to claim his squatters rights, or if he wants to give up his squatters 
rights and get another room through the room draw.
Pro
Residents can furnish and personalize 
their rooms, and know that they wiil have 
the same room next year if they want. 
Graduating seniors and people moving off 
campus will vacate good rooms which will 
become available to residents through the 
room draw system.
Con
If a freshman or sophomore gets a good 
room, it can be tied up for 3 or 4 years. 
Successive inheritance: If a senior and a 
sophomore live together, the sophomore 
can squat in the room, and the room can 
be passed on like this for a number of 
years. With conventional room draw you 
are assured of getting a good room 
eventually.
THE REFERENDUM IS FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1973. SUPPORT YOUR 
DORMITORY GOVERNMENT.
VOTE
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CM Vs Convenient Headquarters 
fot Hardware
* Desk Lamps ** Key Service ^ Artist Brushes
* Hot Plates * Poster Paints * School Supplies
3606 Forbes Avenue OAKLAND Phone 621-0923
Housing Plans Discussed
by Gary Bronheim
Plans to convert McGill into a coed 
apartment and Henderson into a coed 
dorm have been announced by the Housing 
Office. Currently, WDC and MDC are 
working a system for next years room 
allocation. Although no major problems 
have been resolved, policy is being worked 
out.
At the February 7th MDC meeting these 
issues were brought up again. Students who 
presently live in McGill and would like to 
remain next year, but cant afford the 
higher apartment rates are asking for 
special room choice privileges. Henderson 
residents requested squatters rights, but if 
they cannot be given them, displaced 
persons in both dorms would be given first 
preference in other mens dorms after 
squatters rights matters have attended to 
to in the other dorms.
In all room selections, class preference 
will be given. President of WDC Marty 
Lisberger came to the MDC meeting and 
recommended the mens dorms adopt a 
lottery system similar to the one used by 
WDC for room allocation. Under this
system, students will either keep their 
current rooms by squatters rights, or draw 
numbers that will give them a chance for 
better rooms. By academic year, each 
person choses a number and then the best 
prospective senior numbers get first choice 
of all available rooms. Then juniors by 
number get next choice, followed by the 
sophomores. The advantages of the system 
are that students will not be up at 4 a.m. 
standing in line in front of the Housing 
Office in order to get their first room 
preference. Also, a student will know what 
room he will occupy next year the same 
day he makes his choice.
WDC is currently holding a referendum 
to decide female opinion of squatters 
rights, division of apartments for men and 
women, and what priority WDC Council 
members should receive in room selection.
The apartment issue is far from re
solved'.1 There will be 130 apartment spaces 
in McGill, Morewood and Woodlawn. The 
question is whether tb divide these 65-65, 
or more likely to give the men 75 beds and 
the women 55 (more CMU men than 
women).
PREGNANT? - Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC. .... 
NATIONAL} FAMilY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
Call: (215) 457-4139 Philadelphia, Pa.
Vincent Canby of the New York Times says:
"THE BEST AND THE MOST ORIGINAL 
AMERICAN COMEDY OF 1972.
As startling in its way 
as was The Graduate! 
"One of the 
years best 
films!
Newsweek
New Yorker
N Y. Times
"Best 
supporting 
actress, 
Jeannie 
Berlin!
National Society 
of Film Critics
"The funniest 
film of the 
year!
Paul Ringe, 
Circus Magazine
"Best 
supporting 
actor, 
Eddie 
Albert!
 National Society 
of Film Critics
Palomar Pictures lnternaliorul
Neil SimonsThe Heartbreak KidAn Elaine May Film
stamngCharles Grodin Cybill Shepherd <is "Kelly" Jeannie Berlin Audra Lindiey
and Eddie Albert From a story by Bruoe lay Fnedmon Screenplay by Neil Simon 
Produced by Edgar I Schenck Directed by Eiame May points BY DEIUX * \pQ! -oCHATHAM
At I H1HAV CtNTf R ?61 tOOlNow
Showing

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 13, 1973Page 9
State Official Defends 
Nuclear ResearchMaster Goldsmith At Women's Club
by Steven Correll
Government is a girl: it reserves the 
right to change its mind, and it wants to 
please everybody. Remember that.
In a talk before the CMU Nuclear 
Science and Research Division last 
Tuesday, Margaret A. Reilly drily and 
forcefully dissected government, utility 
and consumer involvement with nuclear 
power plants. Ms. Reilly represents the 
Office of Radiological Health of the 
Pennsylvania Department of Environ
mental Resources, but she most certainly 
doesnt represent the second half of her 
own definition of government. With one 
pithy comment after another, she laid out 
barbs for both sides of the power plant 
controversy.
On legislation to control nuclear pollu
tion, she warned the CMU group to beware 
of both the bills that promise to return us 
all to Walden Pond and those that are 
supermarkets for the utilities, asserting 
that either kind benefits only the lawyers 
who spring up off the streets.
On the relative merits of government 
and consumer watchdogs, Ms. Reilly spoke 
of some private groups with admiration but 
said the utilities and manufacturers listen 
more to government because they know 
that while (private groups) may evapo
rate, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
will still be around in the future when the 
stuff hits the fan.
She defended Pennsylvanias record in 
pollution control, pointing to water quality
legislation enacted in the late 1930s and 
air pollution regulations dating back to 
1959, long before the current fashion for 
ecological protection. If Calvert Cliffs (a 
controversial plant in Maryland that op
ponents claim will ruin Chesapeake Bay 
fisheries) were in Pennsylvania, the quest
ion of thermal discharge would have been 
settled early. Cooling towers are not new 
to Pennsylvania. But she also noted that 
the Federal Atomic Energy Commission 
preempts any state attempts to regulate the 
amount of radiation citizens are exposed to 
from power plants.
Speaking before a group composed 
mostly of engineers, Ms. Reilly said her 
dealings with technical people are usually 
pleasant, with few complaints against the 
standards she enforces. In my experience, 
architect-engineers will take numbers for 
anything. Just give them numbers they can 
design with and theyre delighted, especial
ly if the numbers are engraved in granite 
for all time. Asked if engineers ever 
played the villain in conflicts between util
ities and her agency, she replied that most 
of them operate with an integrity and a 
degree of professionalism that I wish every
body had. But after a few moments of 
thought, she added: If I ever found any 
that didnt, I wouldnt hesitate to kick rear 
ends to put them in shape.
Asked if she herself would live next 
door to a nuclear plant, Ms. Reilly replied, 
I live eight miles from Three Rivers Is
land. And Im not moving.
COFFEEHOUSE
FRIDAYS 9-1 
NO ADMISSION CHARGE
The Black Mountain 
String Band
Rodef Shalom basement 
corner, 5th 8t morewood 
entrance rear parking lot
CLAIROL
will be on this campus 
Feb. 19th and 20th 
In Warner Hall to 
Interview UPCOMING
ENGINEERING GRADUATES
For Permanent and Summer Employment
PLEASE CHECK PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR DETAILS AND SIGN-UP.
CLAIROL
The Sound 
of the 
Different 
Drummer
by Christine Infante
The Womens Club at CMU includes 
women faculty, faculty wives and admini
strative and research staffs. Currently, the 
group uses a university owned house at 15 
Roselawn Terrace to hold its meetings and 
activities, which involve bridge, cooking 
seminars, teas and lectures. On Tuesday, 
February 7th, Ronald McNeish, Master 
Goldsmith and designer spoke before their 
group.
Needless to say, it is terribly awkward 
to be in a room filled with faculty wives 
and silver teapots and to be greeted 
with,Oh, are you here to do the dishes? 
Fortunately, Mr. McNeish appeared shortly
thereafter.
Ronald McNeish displays his work in his 
retail shop on Ivy Street, beneath the 
Lemon Tree, as well as operating a 
workshop on Walnut Street. He is a former 
faculty member of C.I.T.
The first thing McNeish made explicit 
was that he had nothing to do with antique 
jewelry, there is just to much to be done 
(that hasnt been done. The technique 
employed by the goldsmith is largely lost 
wax casting though some pieced are forged 
or fabricated from flat sheet or bar stock.
From his topic entitled The Craftsman 
VToday and from the slides of seven and 
ten karat diamond rings, one might think 
the craftsman is doing just fine! Actually,
what concerns him most is that the crafts 
area is flooded with much of what McNeish 
called junk. There are armsful of 
craftspeople, only a few are really 
reputable. He blamed this on the schools, 
citing CMU as one who just isnt training 
the craftsman as he needs to be trained. 
Most schools offer no direction for 
aspiring craftsmen, he claimed. (Note: 
Ronald McNeish attended the Rochester 
Institute of Technologys School for the 
American Craftsman.)
McNeish clearly does not want to be 
tagged with a particular style and repeated 
the importance of versatility of design. But 
there is definitely a McNeishian (excuse 
me) touch and that is one of profession
alism. He designs for the individual, hoping 
to get a feeling of the person for whom he 
is designing and chooses what that person 
would feel comfortable wearing. One ring 
boasted and $18,000 diamond! Thats 
pretty dam comfortable!
Surprisingly enough, Ronald McNeish is 
the first to admit that not everything he 
does is good ... but some (pieces) are 
great. His work seems to be changing a bit 
from the security of the smooth, slick and 
subtle features of earlier pieces to some
thing more creative.
One woman asked if a glove could be 
worn with his rings.
His response: If you wear one of my 
rings dont worry about the glove!
VALENTINES DAY 
FEBRUARY 14th
A Day For Sentimental Remembrance
If You Have The Girl,
We Have The Valentine....
C-MU BOOKSTORE
TALENT SEARCH 1973
  
SIXTH SENSATIONAL SUMMER 
OF SHOWS!
It's a day to day course in practical theatre.
. . Become a part of this exclusive semi
nar where art and entertainment are one 
and the same thing.
It's a Showcase for your special talent.
. . . The shows are built around what you 
do best  so try us! Your audition material 
is limited only by your imagination.
It's a chance to do what you like to do  
and get paid for it.
. . . Earn a substantial portion of your 
college expenses.
Area Audition:
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Thursday, March 8 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Wherrett Room 
Auditions at 1 P.M.
Write:
Live Show Department 
Cedar Point, Inc. 
Sandusky, Ohio 44870

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 13, 1973
Take two years off this summer.
Mlth the Army ROTC Two-Year Program.
Army ROTC usually takes four years of college. But 
you can do it in two.
If, for example, you couldnt take Army ROTC 
during your first two years of college.
Or if you just didnt want to take Army ROTC before.
But now you recognize the benefits.
You start the Two-Year Program by going to our 
six-week Basic Camp the summer following your sophomore year.
Campa little classroom work; some challenging 
physical trainingreplaces the Basic Course you would have 
taken during your first two years of college. Youre well-paid for 
this six-week catch-up.
Then, after camp, you complete your Advanced 
Course during your junior and senior years.
Maybe youll decide that the chance to get real 
management experience earlier than most people will be worth 
a lot later on.
Maybe you can use the $100 per month subsistence 
allowance you will get for up to 10 months of each school year.
Maybe qualifying for two careers simultaneously 
military or civilianis insurance against job uncertainties.
Or, maybe the opportunity for an Army ROTC scholar/' 
ship is exciting.
The Army ROTC Two-Year Program is another /' 
chance for a better career, through Army ROTC.
Talk over the Two-Year Program with 
the Professor of Military Science at your school.
Or use this coupon. Theres no obligation.
Army ROTC. The more you look 
at it, the better it looks.
/iSr
/ Army KOTC 
P.O. Box 1270.1 
/ IhikMlolpliiu. 1*A !M:t I
/ loll nu* more about llu*
/' Army KOTC. Iwo-Ycai Program.
N;imr________________________

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, February 13, 1973Page 11
Andrew Carnegie Society: 
Alumni and Friends
by Sue Zimmerman
Got a couple of grand on yaTYou, too, 
can be a member of the Andrew Carnegie 
Society, with all the magnificent benefits 
thereof! Yes, a cool thousand dollars will 
get you a roast prime beef dinner with the 
president of the university and your name, 
with that of 120 of your peers, on a three
fold green leaflet. Its not such a bad deal, 
actually, considering the quality of food 
service and dinner company lately, but, its 
not something you save up your pennies 
for, either.
Last June, a sub-committe of the Board 
of Trustees of Carnegie-Mellon University 
congregated with the intent to upgrade 
the giving to the university at the $1,000 
level and up.
The Andrew Carnegie Society has been 
founded by alumni and friends of 
Carnegie-Mellon University,
To recognize and honor Andrew 
Carnegie, whose vision and generosity 
made possible the founding of CarnegieMellon University, and
To encourage and inspire alumni and 
friends in their support of Carnegie-Mellon 
University to follow the high standards of 
philanthropy established by Andrew 
Carnegie. 
Robert Barr, Director of Development 
at CMU, is the Secretary of the society. He 
explained that the society is headed by an 
alumni volunteer, James W. Taylor, but 
that the organization is staffed by the 
Division of Development. Weve been
making a continuing effort on the part of 
total development to encourage contribu
tions to the university. The Andrew 
Carnegie Society simply recognizes those 
who have the means to support the univer
sity at this level. Many are trustees, and 
many have contributed to the university 
before.
The projected membership for the 
Carnegie Society was set last June at sixty. 
If this many subscribers could be found to 
contribute $1,000 each by June 73, the 
society would be termed a success. By 
January, the membership was over 120. In 
a message to the society, Taylor wrote, 
We are grateful to these alumni and 
friends whose commitments of $1,249,627 
have gotten the society off to such a fine 
beginning this year.
Because of the extent of the contribu
tions, Barr suggests that the students regard 
the society with proper respect. I think 
students should be aware that many alumni 
and friends contribute six to seven million 
dollars in. total giving annually to the 
school. This six million dollars represents a 
significant figure that would have to be 
replaced by student tuition.
Barr attributed the success of the 
society to the improved economic climate. 
He also hinted that the improvement in 
students attitudes over the past year may 
have made contributing a little easier. I 
dont think its fair to say that the change 
on college campuses is the only factor, but 
its true that a certain maturity, both eco
nomic and otherwise has evolved in the 
past five years. ___
PUT WINGS ON 
YOUR COLLEGE 
DEGREE
Your professional flying 
career could start 
with a phone call
The United States Air Force offers some unique 
career-starting advantages to college graduates 
between 20y2 and 26Vfe years old. After grad
uation from Officer Training School youll earn 
$9,860 per year while attending flight training; 
automatic increases plus promotion in rank can 
raise your income to $17,000 during your service 
term. And youll acquire valuable training and 
experience that will pay off in civilian life . . . like 
a head start on a flying career ... or impressive 
leadership and million-dollar responsibility cre
dentials to go with your degree. Benefits include 
30 days paid vacation annually, free world wide 
air travel, medical care and much more. Call now 
for more information without obligation:
Sgt. Richard P. Allen 
(412) 644-5839 
Room 310 
1000 Liberty Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Fine Arts Offers 
Film Degree
by Barbara Kiefer
Last year, with the support of the Buhl 
Foundation, Metropolitan Pittsburgh 
Public Broadcasting and University 
authorities, an MFA program in Film and 
Television began at CMU. It is, in the 
words of one of the founders, Max Von 
Brauchitsch, a rather remarkable venture 
inasmuch as it is founded on two diverse 
elements: a Drama Department and a 
Public Television Station. The Drama De
partment now offers graduate options in 
directing, play writing, design, production 
and film and television. WQED, the 
countrys oldest community-owned tele
vision station, is also a national production 
center which in the past years has made 
major contributions to Public Broadcasting 
(NET PLAYHOUSE4 NET BIOGRAPHY4 
THE TURNED-ON CRISIS,etc.). Mr. Von 
Brauchitsch is the present director of the 
program and Mr. Martin Russ of the 
English Department is acting as the writing 
consultant for the eight students currently 
in the program.
Main emphasis revolves around the 
practical application of theoretical 
elements of film and television. Mr. Von 
Brauchitsch stressed the importance of 
thorough understanding of the communi
cation process and audience. An effective 
reaction on the part of the viewerthe vital 
engagement betwenn audience and 
screenis probably the main thesis of this 
program. Says Mr. Von Brauchitsch, That 
part of it also entails the filmmaker 
knowing what has to be done and how to 
do it. The curriculum has been devised to 
meet these premises. The students are given 
the opportunity to gain skills in all areas 
necessary for application, upon graduation, 
in a job with the industry.
The technical  training is keyed to 
production and professionalism. It is a 
learn by doing process, with the students 
working almost twelve hours a day both at 
WQED and CMU under the supervision of 
six professionals: two cinematographers, an 
editor, producer, director and writer. The 
students work is reviewed weekly, their
work looked at and discussed, their pro
gression marked. It is only upon 
completion of a successful full-length film 
endeavor and board approval that they areelegible for graduation. According to Mr. 
Von Brauchitsch, the filmmaker must first 
recognize a communitys needs and then 
successfully apply communication designs 
capable of answering them. His product is 
evaluated in terms of srtistic and technical 
competence, as well as its potential in 
reaching the audience.
While WQED provides thr framework 
for the technical aspects of the learning 
experience, CMU adds the academic and 
conceptual component. The students have 
at their disposal the outstanding achieve
ments of the Drama Department, and a 
professional critic for their writing, editing 
and value-oriented films, Mr. Martin Russ. 
He speaks with them about theme, 
attitude, what the film will say. Although 
most of the films are of a documentary 
nature, ttwo out of ten are dramatic, says 
Von Brauchitsch. Subjects such as attitude 
formation and social change, intergroup 
relations, stereotypes and prejudices, and 
resistance to persuasion are discussed in 
relation to the film itself and the values 
reflected in the films that are not 
specifically documented reports. The 
filmmaker who deals with Fiction is encour
aged to explore all the realms of human 
plight, conflict and decision-making. The 
extensive use of dramatic means for service 
-oriented communications is a common 
theme for all students during their partici
pation in the program. According to Mr. 
Russ, the program actually lends itself to a 
study of that which is specifically artistic 
as opposed to that which is generally 
considered so. There is a close inspection 
into art as a serviceoriented medium; the 
public eye being the reality of the culture. 
In an atmosphere where that is disdained 
by many artists, it seems reactionary. But 
there is new demand for the artists recog
nition of the public and the publics needs 
and the students in the program, in Mr. 
Russs words,  are all anxious to get their 
hands dirty.
& *e&tTake it from one with a man-sized 
yen. men. When a *E3ig Man on Campus 
gets a big thirst, it takes a big drink to 
satiate it. And nothing. I repeat nothing, 
titillates the tonsils and taunts a thirst 
like Akadama Red. Fred.
Akadama RedThe toast of the campus.
imported by Suntory international. Los Angeles Calif
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Processing  Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
Two Locations 
OAKLAND-3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHAOYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 13, 1973
Midani Interview
continued from page 7
actually is the term that was invented by 
Senghor and I see it as a tremendous asset 
if we understand the meaning of it for the 
black artist. The anguish that we have in 
the College of Fine Arts is that we dont 
try to suppress temperament. In fact, we 
try to mobilize temperaments for creativ
ity, and we have to live up to such a 
challenge. I was asked one day, Dont you 
have a great many headaches because you 
have too many Primadonnas? I said if I 
dont have too many Primadonnas, I cant 
have any school. I must have artists with 
individual temperaments in order to con
sider the school as a healthy school. 
TARTAN: Do you see that the Fine Arts 
on this particular campus has any partic
ular role or function?
A.M.: A very important role. After all, this 
is one of the largest undergraduate colleges. 
We have 1,050 students in the College of 
Fine Arts. It is a very healthy college. We 
take no more than 37% of our applications. 
Thats a very healthy situation. I think the 
university is about to reach the stage when 
its going to be an ideal place for the Two 
Cultures, the inter-relation between Arts 
and Humanities on one hand and Science 
and Technology on the other. I feel some
times that if I were advising a parent who 
wanted to send his child to a science 
school, I would say go to CMU because 
they also have a College of Fine Arts. This 
may sound totally irrelevant but its very 
important to study science where there is a 
strong College of Fine Arts. As to the 
climate, the students can, first of all, live in 
a community where there will be artists, 
live with the artists, eat with the artists, be 
around them, see them, this breed of cre
ative people. After all, the scientist is a 
creative person and the Engineer is a 
creative person, but they can see and 
become influenced by different breeds of 
other creative people. They can attend con
certs. They can even live in a dormitory 
where the music and drama students are 
training, where architects are trying to 
build something, designers are designing, 
painters are working, they have access to 
the student gallery. This is why I feel the 
Student Art Gallery is a CMU community 
art gallery. All the students should see it, 
should go and enjoy it. To be on a campus 
like this, to have an artistic component on 
a campus as compact as ours is a tre
mendous asset to the University. We in the 
College of Fine Arts also benefit from 
being in a university like this. Therefore, I 
think our position should be positive, 
should contribute to the general climate. 
We should have an open mind, open eyes 
to what is going on here. Theres a tre
mendous possibility for designers to know 
what they can do with the computer and 
create further with it. We have musicians 
who are now working with the computer in 
a program that is going on between the 
Music Department and Electrical Engin
eering, for instance. Its tremendous. It can 
only happen here. The directors in Drama 
learn a great deal from management
GIRLS.
because we have GSIA. This interaction 
can only happen on this campus.
TARTAN: What is that music program? 
A.M.: Theres a program in electronic 
music thats taking place between the 
Music and Electrical Engineering depart 
ments. It is a postdoctoral program 
researching a certain method to develop an 
electronic musical instrument. Some 
people call it an organ; I think its a totally 
different instrument. Its a new art form. 
TARTAN: Whats happening now with the 
physical moves?
A.M.: We still need space. I really dont 
know how much I can say about the moves 
since we have been entertaining six alterna
tives; weve made six plans. One replaced 
another. Let me give you some basic 
statistics and tell you something about my 
expectations. In 1953, we had 500 stu
dents. In 1973, we have 1000 roughly. We 
doubled our number of students through
out the 20 years. Do you know how much 
weve gained in space? 12%. Weve been 
using about 120,000 square feet. We need, 
in order to function, in order to continute 
to offer the quality education that we are 
offering, something between 180,000 and 
190,000 square feet. The President 
assigned a task force to work on this 
problem and I hope before the end of the 
year there will be a decision on at least one 
of the alternatives; that once and for all the 
space problem will be solved.
TARTAN: What are the six alternatives? 
A.M.: Actually, it is very complicated. For 
instance, the Margaret Morrison building is 
one alternative. Everybody in the 
community knows that the other alterna
tive was to try to move some of our act
ivities to the Mellon Institute. Between the 
two we have lots of alternatives. Ive been 
working quietly with other deans on 
alternatives. I dont really like to discuss 
the details until a decision is finally 
reached because nobody knows whether 
we may end .up with a seventh alternative. 
But I hope not. Actually, I always thought 
that it was impossible to have a seventh 
alternative because the seventh is for the 
day of rest. Therefore, the sixth alternative 
can be the final one. But I gave you the 
figures about the space needed and the 
space projected. This is the only way for us 
to continue our position of responsibility 
to our students and the rest of the campus. 
TARTAN: Some of the F.A. students have 
made comments that Fine Arts is getting 
the raw end of the deal financially. What 
is your view on this?
A.M.: This is a long standing stituation. I 
think it is improving. We have new leader
ship now. The President came to office on 
July 1 and I came to office on July l,and 
since then weve had a very close relation
ship. He is totally aware of our problems. 
We were the only college that was not 
asked to reduce its budget. In fact, with 
some understanding, we gained a little 
more than last year. Therefore, with all 
fairness, I cannot say that we are getting a 
raw deal because we maintained our 
budget, and we added to it this year.
We can use more but I feel the challenge 
is addressed to us as well as it is addressed
Sdfi&tibdbdbdbd
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1973 camp season, must be able 
to teach one of the following: Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Accompanist 
and singing, Archery, Tennis, Golf, Trampoline, Photography, Cheerleading, 
Riflery (N.R.A.), Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, 
Boating, Canoeing and Water Skiing Instructor, or general Athletics. Secretary 
and Bookeeper also needed.
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADER, must be college graduate experienced in 
camping. Able to plan schedule for activities, evening programs, etc. Super
vise large staff. Write Camp Director, 2409 Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore, Md. 
21209
to the University at large. We can develop 
more vigor as far as fund raising, as far as 
securing grants from outside the Uni
versity. I think it is my duty as a member 
of the campus community to contribute to 
the solution of the fiscal problem, because 
we cannot survive as a College without 
C-MU.
TARTAN: How large a gap do you see 
between H&SS and Fine Arts on this 
campus: For instance, you once mentioned 
Shakespeare in terms of having two differ
ent approaches, that of the spectacle and 
that of the writing.
A.M.: You see, because I am a teacher of 
dramatic literature I like to conduct a 
dialogue with H&SS. Shakespeare is made 
of dramatic lines and presence. The lines 
are verbal and the literary aspects of 
Shakespeare. The presence is the theatrical 
event that comes out of the verbal lines. 
And I think all the students ought to see 
the synthesis of these two conditions. For 
awhile, I thought that was the difference 
between the way we teach drama and the 
way the English Department teaches 
drama. But since I have been allowed to 
teach in the English Department on many 
occasions, I began to see constructive ways 
for cooperation. In fact, since the be
ginning of the year, Ive been in continuous 
converences with Erwin Steinberg, the 
Dean of H&SS, and we have been devel
oping a number of programs. One of them 
that our faculty is working on religiously is 
a program that would link organizationally 
Drama and English in the fields of Playwriting and Dramatic Criticism. We cannot 
look at each other as one college servicing 
the other; we must establish fully inte
grated, fully interdependent programs. Our 
professional position, in the College of 
Fine Arts, may be used as a model in 
Creative Writing in H&SS, for instance 
where students can be auditioned or
asked to present writings which signify a 
talent before they are enrolled in the 
program.
TARTAN: There have been complaints 
from students in schools other than the 
F.A. that Fine Arts is too isolated; that 
interested students cannot advance beyond 
the elective levels of the disciplines.
A.M.: Of course a student that interested 
must quit and go to CFA if he wants to get 
to an advanced position in a discipline. 
There are two realities. One of them is his 
own ability to make a commitment to 
professional education, which I think is up 
to him to find out. The other one is our 
limitations. Let me gjve you an example. 
Let us say that you have a class in instru
mental teaching in music. Its a one to one 
relationship ... one teacher teaching one 
student. And this class, let us say piano, is 
made of ten students, and the facultys 
time is allocated to those ten students. If 
we are going to add two more students 
from H&SS, its going to be at the expense 
of those ten who are devoting all their time 
to learn the instrument. If we happen to 
have endless resources of money and can 
hire more faculty and have more studios, 
this question would be totally -different.
With this particular regard, I always feel 
interdependent programs like the ones 
concerning Playwriting and Dramatic 
Criticism, to be far healthier than just 
allowing students to attend studios or 
workshops. After all, a student who is not 
a professional student, going to a pro
fessional class, may end up being just an 
onlooker. Hell be registered, hes going to 
pay the money, but hes not going to get 
anything precise out of the experience. 
Those who want to advance ought to 
realize that they cannot really carry a 
violin while they are carrying a big bag of 
something else. They have to drop one 
thing in order to carry the other.
(S    
0 9
TJrlrJrjr-)
CYERT SPEAKS!
ABOUT
UFO, PROVOSTS, 
BYRDS &
The MOSQUE
President CYERT Will Answer Your 
Questions, Call 621-9728 or 01 On 
The Moremod House Phone.
President 
It HII. 1 It It 31. CYERT
Wed., Feb. 14, 
6-7 p.m.
On WRCT-9

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 13, 1973Page 13
Transcendental! Meditation at C-MUSTUDENT ACTIVITIESDATES TO REMEMBER@THROUGH MARCH 1973
by Debbie Siegel
On Wednesday evening, February 7th 
there was an introductory lecture 
sponsored by SIMS (Students Inter
national Meditation Society). Eileen 
Feldman and Rick Meisenbach, two 
teachers of Transcendental Meditation who 
studied under Maharishi Yogi introduced 
the group to the nature of meditation. 
Eileen began, I want to make it clear that 
TM is not a form of philosophy or religion, 
and it requires no change in life style. One 
does not have to believe in it, as the main 
purpose is to expand the capacity of your 
mind and provide some clarity of 
thinking.
Maharishi Yogi, the true guru of the 
movement, discovered meditation when he 
was studying physics at a university in 
India. As a monk, he lived a contemplative 
life and wanted to spread the fulfillment he 
gained from meditation. In the past 14 
years it has spread through India, Europe, 
and particularly the United States. Maha
rishi has attributed this to the fact that 
Americans are able to accept changes very 
quickly and have a tendency to be creative. 
In the past two years, research has been 
conducted which shows a change in a 
persons metabolism from his undergoing 
meditation.
There are over 200,000 meditators in 
the U.S. and over 1,000 in Pittsburgh. At 
CMU there are approximately 50 medita
tors, and programs to teach meditation are 
being offered periodically. Presently, 
meditators hold meetings on this campus 
every Sunday night in the basement of 
Hunt Library, where discussions occur, and 
video tapes of teachers from various areas 
are shown. Maharishi has a general plan to 
set up 3,600 centers of meditation in the 
world, 200 of these in the United States. 
There would be one teacher for every 
thousand people.
Rick Meisenbach explained the require
ments for being a teacher. I began 
meditating about seven years ago and it led 
me to a real sense of ultimate conscious
ness and fulfillment. I wanted to help other 
people to gain this feeling. Anyone who 
became interested in the art of meditation 
may become trained as a teacher and there 
are weekend retreats which delve into the 
content of this. Learning to meditate 
requires personal instruction, and a person 
must have a certain amount of time to give. 
Three days after one has learned TM there 
are two hour sessions on four consecutive 
days to relate ones experience with others. 
Each person must abstain from any nonprescriptive drugs such as hashish, speed, 
etc. for a period of 15 days following the 
time from when he has learned to medi
tate. To maintain an equilibrium each 
person is encouraged to meditate for only 
20 minutes in the morning and in the 
evening. Meditation is not a $^bstitue for,, 
sleep, but a process by which the person 
yvill awaken within himself. In slpep, one 
gains 200% sense of relaxation, while 30% 
is gained from meditation.
It was explained that for the movement 
to survive, some fees must be charged. A 
list of costs is as follows: $35. for high 
school students, $45. for college students, 
$75. for working adults, and $125. for 
families with children up to the age of 16. 
SIMS encourages families to join in the TM 
experience together. There is also a check
ing program to see if the individual is con
tinuing meditation in the correct fashion. 
To avoid disturbance in the growing 
process of consciousness, it is 
recommended that each person be checked 
monthly.
Anyone who can think can do 
Transcendental Meditation.
(Ed. note: This is the first section of a two 
part article examining Transcendental 
Meditation.)
NAVALRESEARCHLABORATORY
WASHINGTON, D.C.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
The Navys Corporate LaboratoryNRLis 
engaged in research embracing practically all 
branches of physical and engineering science and 
covering the entire range from basic investigation 
of fundamental problems to applied and develop
mental research.
The Laboratory has a continuing need for 
physicists, chemists, metallurgists, mathematicians, 
oceanographers, and engineers (electronic, elec
trical and mechanical). Appointees, who must be 
U.S. citizens, receive the full benefits of the career 
Civil Service.
Candidates for bachelors, masters and doc
tor's degrees in any of the above fields are 
invited to schedule interviews with NRL represen
tatives who will be in theCarnegie-Mellon
University
PLACEMENT OFFICE ON
Wed., Feb. 14
Those who, for any reason, are unable to 
schedule interviews may write to The Civilian Per
sonnel Office (Code 1818), Naval Research Lab
oratory, Washington, D.C. 20390.
Feb. 14 Ananda Marga Benefit Dance (Nicarauguan Relief)9 pm Skibo BR
16 TGI F4:30 pm Skibo BR
All Night Film Festival9 pm Skibo BR
17 Howdy Doody Show with Buffalo Bob8 pm Skibo BR
18 Hockey Tournament (CMU vs. Pitt)7 pm Civic Arena
23 Omega Psi Phi Dance (tentative)8 pm Skibo BR
Mar. 1&2 American Inst, for Foreign Study Interviews9-5 pm Skibo 56
2TGIF4:30 pm Skibo BR
3 BYRDS Concert7 & 10 pm Gym
4 Mortarboard Tea7:30 pm Skibo FDR
Spirit Talent Show8 pm Skibo BR
CMU vs. Pitt Hockey8 pm Alpine
8 Cedar point AuditionsNoon to 6 pm Skibo WH
9 Greek Sing8 pm Music Hall
10 Parents' Day9 am Skibo
Greek Swing9 pm Skibo BR
11 Scotch 'n Soda moves in Skibo Ballroom
13 American Rights 1984Prognosis (Panel Disc.)7:30 pm Skibo WR
Israel Day9 am Skibo Lobby
15 Up Your ImageWomen's Day programAll Day
Act. Bd. Programming Fund & Student Activities
16 Intramural Night8 pm Gym
Ifcfll Barbosa-Lima & CMU Chamber Orchestra! ,!(,. ' 71 g:30 pm Music Hall
20 American Rights 1984Prognosis (2nd Part)7:30 pm Skibo WR
For further information, call the Dept, of Student Activities, ext. 214
Upward Bound Is 
Proven Worthwhile
by Brandon Dula
Upward Bound is a success. The last 
graduating class had 28 students, 27 went 
on to college. Most of them went to private 
institutions, and five came to Carnegie-Mellon. The next graduating class has 18
RUGS
for less
with your ID Card
lOOO 9x12 Rugs S15 S19 $29 $49
also: 6x9's, 12x12'*, 12xl5's, etc. 
Also: Area Rugs (orientals, shags, 
etc., etc.)
CHASES
5426 Walnut St., Shadyside
DAILY: 10:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m. 
SATURDAY: 10:00 a.m.  5:00 p.m. 
42 1-1 025 
students, 16 expect to go on to college. 
Cordell Richardson, the Director of Up
ward Bound said starting with next re
cruiting season he hopes to get students 
with above average ability in math, science 
and fine arts, with hopes that some of 
these students may attend CMU. He may 
also take 9th and 10th grade students with 
exceptional ability.
(Editors Note: Upward Bound is a pro
gram being sponsored by universities across 
the nation. High school students, usually 
those with above average ability but re
tarded performance, are brough into the 
university in addition to their regular high 
school curriculum, and provided with 
special programs.)
ABORTION
INFORMATION 
ABORTION GUIDANCE
An Abortion can be arranged within 24 
hours and you can return home the same day you leave*
CALL TOLL FREE
(800)523-4436
A Non-Profit Organisation 
open 7 day* a wee*
J
KILTIE
COFFEE
HOUSE
FEB. 15-16-17-18-19-20-21-22-23-24 
5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
Delicious Food and Pleasant 
Atmosphere at Low Prices.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 13, 1973
ENTERTAINMENT
T,ranmlity Interview
Concerts
by Terry Cay wood and Arnie Karr
After Tranquilitys one hour set in the 
Skibo Ballroom on Friday night, group 
members Terry Shaddick, guitarist and 
composer; Tony Lukyn, keyboardsman; 
Berkeley Wright, lead guitarist; and Ashley 
Kozak, the producer of both the bands 
albums, discussed their music, their histor
ies and their plans in a one-hour interview 
taped at WRCT. We were impressed by the 
groups awareness of their own strengths 
and weaknesses, and thoroughly pleased 
with their willingness to just sit and talk 
after a fine strenuous session.
Brad Simon, George Bias and Bill 
Durgin joined us for the following inter
view:
TARTAN: Drivers Engine was an out
standing part of tonights concert. Who got 
you invoved in country music?
Terry: I think it was the New Riders. We 
did our first tour with them. And, of 
course, when youre doing six weeks with 
the New Riders, you cant help but be 
influenced by them.
TARTAN: Youve often been compared to 
Yes. How do you react to the com
parisons?
Ashley: In the last tourOctober to
Decembermost of the dates were with 
Yes, and it didnt seem to compare.
Tony: The harmony stylein the formation 
and sound of harmonieshas caused many 
comparisons, but we have never en
deavored to be influenced by them . We 
never listen to their musicthats a fact. Its 
just the four-part harmony which we create 
is just a natural happening because Terry 
has a certain voice, I have a certain voice 
and the way that the harmonies are con
structed, it just sounds like Tranquility.
Terry: I think its the format of the group, 
really, more than anything else... because 
we do one or two long numbers7 or 8 
minutesand Yes of course are more into 
doing long things with arrangements and 
its probably that and the harmony that 
cause the comparison with Yes. But I think 
youll find that any vocal band will be 
compared with the vocal bands of the 
time-- theyre contemporaries-- everybody 
gets compared to one another. Of course, 
whether you like it or not, you get in
fluences. Even whether you know it or 
not., so youll find that often youll sound 
a bit like somthing and people will point it 
out, and you didnt even know.
TARTAN: You must have been great to 
work with in the studio. Live, you sound 
very together and tight. How long did it 
take to record your new album, Silver?
Tony: Silvercame together very quickly... 
probably because of the organization that 
went into it beforehandrehearsing which 
we did on the road and at rehearsal studios 
and stuff like that. The studios were very 
good.
tranquility
Ashley: Everything was rehearsed before 
we went into the studio. We felt well pre
pared.
TARTAN: Terry, your little vaudeville gig 
was quite well received.
Terry: I really like that kind of music, so, 
when you get up and youre going to sing it 
to someone, you really got to swing.
Tony: Originally, it was with canes and 
hats...
Terry: But we get in tonight and no hat 
and cane! So Im looking around for any
thing and theres a broom! I didnt know 
what I was going to do with it. so I swept 
while I thought, What am I going to do 
with this?
TARTAN: You almost smile when you 
sing.., it even sounds that way. Is this a 
natural thing?
Terry: The reason most people sing any
way is because they feel good. Its a nice 
thing for people to see, too. Too much 
today, people ust walk away thinking too 
much whereas if you smile and have a nice 
time, people walk away feeling happy.
TARTAN: How did the group evolve?
Tony: As it came about, I came from a 
harmony band which sparked off the 
four-part (harmony) thing and Terry had 
that blues influence plus the vaudeville in
fluence.
Terry: Harmony and rhythm thats the 
trade secret of Tranquility. Its taken us 
two years to get together.
TARTAN: It seems to have worked. 
Thanks very much. (All exchange warm 
good-byes and thank-yous.)
Concerts
War
by Terry Cay wood and Arnie Karr
High strung emotion on a subliminal 
level: few can instill such reaction as well 
as War did February 3rd in the Syria 
Mosque. Their medium is music, and their 
approach is visceral.
The opening act, The New Identity, first 
exercised the ears of the audience with 
their fine arrangements of popular tunes. 
Through the excellent use of musical 
bridges, the group did only two medlies, 
which consisted of Keeper of the Castle, 
Papa Was A Rolling Stone, the Isley 
Brothers Work to Do, Chicagos South 
California Purples, Me and Mrs. Jones 
and others. Their forty-five minute stint 
demonstrated a tight band utilizing proven 
melodies with commendable results. With 
some original or new material, this band 
could go places.
War made their entrance casually. 
Pleased with the tremendous success of 
their new album, The World Is A 
Ghetto, the band refused to depart from 
their direct, gimmickless delivery. There is 
no competition within the group as seems 
to be the case so often today. Each 
member naturally moves to the fore to 
have his moment. War could be considered 
seven men without egos. Admittedly, there 
is a group ego--a strong one, ruled by the 
will to please, to do something different, to 
get off the Sly hype cycle and make the 
best music possible, to continue to produce 
new music with a potential to do more 
than sell records. No particular solo stands 
out, perhaps because everything that 
happens on stage is part of a logical 
progression. The way that they bring across 
dynamicism is through unity, subtlety and 
calculated movements. Papa Dee Allen may 
build to a climax on his conga and throw 
his drum sticks into the audience, but only 
at a time when everyone in the audience 
can appreciate it.
a hysterical MC or a forced image of star
dom. War is a natural group, made up of 
natural musicians, but, most important, 
natural people.
Bassist/vocalist B.B. Dickerson seems to 
move nothing but his fingers and his jaw; 
harmonica player Lee Oskar, who drew 
tremendous ovations for his exuberant 
solos, leaves no muscles unflexed. He and 
saxist/vocalist Charles Miller are superbly 
coordinated, yet decisively innovative and 
musically alert. One might sense that they 
were functioning from the same brain. 
Guitarist/vocalist Howard Scott brings a 
new peace and meaning to the traditionally 
dominant guitar. Lonnie Jordans organ 
playing, perhaps the singularly most 
impressive performance on the groups 
records, sustains its mellowness and artistic 
intelligence throughout the live perform
ance. Drummer Harold Brown plays with 
consistent taste and control. The group 
achieves a unity that you could only 
expect from men who have played together 
and known each other for more than 
thirteen years. Lonnie, with whom we 
spoke after the show, spoke proudly of 
their association with each other. War is a 
group at peace with itself.
As we watched the concert, we had 
trouble deciding who would review the 
group and who would review the audience. 
The togetherness of the War unit spread to 
the audience, who cheered each solo and 
each lyrical phrase almost as enthusiastic
ally as the musicians executed them. The 
fantastic release of tension that initiates 
the chorus of The World Is A Ghetto 
caused an instantaneous standing ovation. 
Dees sermon was wll delivered and 
added a new power to the song that 
couldnt have succeeded on the album. In 
concert, it makes for an emotional peak 
and helps explain the song. Similarly, 
Howard vented his anger towards police 
and the forces that get him down in Get 
Down. (This was during the encore, while 
the police were busy removing dancing 
audience members from the stage. What 
else could they have been telling them but 
Get Down? The music affected 
everybody.)
We enjoyed the concert so much that 
we figured something was wrong. We were 
supposed to be reviewing this event and, 
instead, we were absolutely absorbed by it. 
War has devised or evolved a stage show 
which excites naturally and easily-a show 
that ignites itself without the benefit (J of

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 13, 1973Page 15
Sculptures by Michael Mesaros and Chris Beaman
Film
Heartbreak
by Hank Levy
The Heartbreak Kid, screenplay by Neil 
Simon, directed by Elaine May, starring 
Charles Grodin, Cybil Shepherd, Jeannie 
Berlin, and Eddie Albert, now playing at 
Chatham Theater, downtown.
Neil Simon in his latest venture, The 
Heartbreak Kid, attempts a more serious 
style of comedy than in most of his 
previous works. The overall atmosphere is 
sad if not tragic. Perhaps the major 
problem is the conflict between comedy 
and drama. He settles for something in 
between, and ultimately the comedy is no 
funnier than die drama is believable.
The plot involves a newlywed Jewish 
couple on their honeymoon in Florida. 
Soon after their arrival, the husband meets 
WASP Amer .as dream girl, Kelly Corcerin 
(played by Cybil Shepherd), and falls 
madly in love. He decides to divorce his 
wife of several days, to travel to Kellys 
hometown of Minnesota and marry her. 
Elaine May directs her daughter Jeannie 
Berlin and a Pittsburgh Playhouse graduate 
Charles Grodin in the leading roles of the 
newlyweds Lila and Lenny.
Undoubtedly one of the most naive 
characters ever portrayed. Lenny fits right 
into this implausable plot. His actions, 
especially in the presence of Kellys 
parents, are so embarassing as to be 
actually irritating to watch. First of all, 
even given the incredible fact that Lila 
would want to marry this nitwit, why 
would he marry her?He seems so repulsed 
by her that only hours after the ceremony 
has ended shes already taxing his nerves. 
One could easily believe they had just met 
at the wedding. Lennys relationship with
Kelly is equaHy absurd. Although Kelly 
does like him, her actions are certainly no 
more than friendly. Lenny immediately 
assumes that shes willing to marry him and 
even tells her disbelieving father (Eddie 
Albert) that hes on his honeymoon but 
will get a divorce to marry Kelly.
As if it isnt frustrating enough watching 
Lennys blundering antics, Elaine May has 
to rub the audiences nose in every horrid 
moment. The worst of it comes at a 
seafood restaurant where Lenny has finally 
decided to tell Lila he wants a divorce. Her 
misinterpretation of his motives (she thinks 
hes going to tell her he has a fatal disease) 
is immediately obvious but the scene goes 
on and on until Lenny has exhausted every 
possible ambiguity in the English language. 
Oddly enough, the only truly inspiring 
succeeds only through lack of direction (it 
is largely improvised). Here for the first 
time Lenny uses his head for something 
besides holding his hair up and scares away 
Kellys jock college boyfriends by pre
tending to be a narcotics agent.
After what seems like hours, we reach 
the final agonizing scene. Lenny is married 
for the second time and after the cere
mony, is delivering his philosophy of life 
(which Eddie Albert aptly describes as 
feculent, but in a few more words) to the 
family and friends. All the adults find him 
vastly amusing, but when he tries to talk to 
little kids, they see him as the bore he is 
and walk away. Here the picture stops 
(rather than ends) and the audience is 
supposedly left with this fabulous insight 
into human nature. Actually all theyre left 
with is a three dollar deficit and a two hour 
waste.
Jeannie Berlin is excellent and Cybil 
Shepherd does a fine job also. Charles 
Grodin spends most of the film with his 
mouth hung open trying to look like 
Dustin Hoffman in The Graduate. The 
photography is competent if not pleasing, 
and Neil Simon should stick to straight 
comedy where he belongs.
0alier y
Paintings of all sizes, drawings between 
glass, giant imitation food stuffs complete 
with surprises (a coiled snake under the 
hamburger bun), a thorn in the eye of the 
world, photographs of a cast head and the 
sister of one of the stars, herself a film star. 
The people rival the art - someone said. 
The musicians wore tuxedos and long black 
dresses. Someone said it was the best show 
they could remember at the gallery. There 
were people dressed in their paintsplattered jeans, there were people in snake 
pants, and there were people who arrived 
in taxi cabs from Squirrel Hill wearing 
fancy clothes from another era. The place 
was filled and the ethyl alcohol and cran
berry juice gave out early - after a hoaf 
hour there was ice water. Milling around 
drinking ice water out of ridiculous paper
cups. Looking at the paintings and ham
burgers, listening to Vivaldi played by live 
musicians. The Glue Band was there 
without their instruments announcing a 
concert this week for earthquake victims. 1 
didnt like it at first - someone said - but I 
like it now. You have to get used to it. 
Look at the Europe Drawings in the back 
and at the snake under the hamburger 
bun-coiled in there with the chopped 
onions. Sit down on a piece of Caseys 
furniture and stare out the window or stare 
at Chris weaving. Get used to the gar
gantuan canvases, the lima beans, fabrics 
sun spots, spray paint, flock. Blue Period 
paintings, stuffed red pepper, a crucified 
stuffed human string bean, Home of the 
Whopper crowns, etc. And someone said - 
theres a bright future for the ones who 
have it.
Michael Mesaros, Chris Beaman, and 
Stephen Casey; at the Student Gallery 
through February 23.
The Activities Board Presents 
The All Night Fantasy Festival
DU
Also MAKE MINE MUSIC, the Sequel to Fantasia, 
The Point and More. FEB. 16 SKIBO BALLROOM 
8:00 P.M. 50 with AB CARD
VONNEGUTiTIME BUKTU
A SPACE FANTASY

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973
Theatre
Qrease at fiixon
by Nonie Dempsey
Grease, written by Jim Jacobs and 
Warren Casey, is everything its title 
suggests: the 50s, complete with poodle 
skirts and bobby socks, black leather 
jackets and songs with 000OOO000.0.0.0 
at the end. For some of the theatre-goers 
last Monday night, as was evident from 
embarassed chuckles and even a few 
shouted comments, it was an evening of 
nostalgia. Yet, even if one was outside the 
magic age group (27 to 42) of people who 
were teenagers in the 50s (I only 
remembered the Mickey Mouse ears), 
Grease was an entertaining, funny show.
Unlike Bye, Bye Birdie, Grease 
shows the somewhat seamier side of teen
age life in the 50s. The wholesome youth 
of Sweet Apple, Ohio are replaced by the 
Burger Palace Boys with flashing pocket 
combs and slicked back hair, and the Pink 
Ladies who know how to smoke and drink 
and pierce ears at slilmber parties. Rizzo 
gets pregnant, Roger goes mooning and 
Frenchy (why, wherever did she get that 
name?) drops out before she has time to 
flunk again, and goes to beauty school.
The plot (unfortunately, just a minor 
detail) centers around sweet Sandy 
Dumbrowski, recent transfer from 
Immaculata High, whos after the 
affections of Zuko, long, skinny, typical
greaser. When Sandy admits that she has 
led a sheltered life, the Pink Ladies come 
to the rescue and generously show her the 
ropes. By the finale, Sandy looks just like 
one of the gang.
Grease was funniest in its un
spoken elements, all the greasers constantly 
nodding their heads (Hey, were cool), 
the wild, rocking dances, and Zukos spastically jerking arms and legs each time Sandy 
came into view.
The music was very appropriately 
written; every song sounded just like the 
last. From my seat in the balcony, the 
lyrics, on the whole, were indistinguishable 
and I can only guess at what followed 
Look at me, Im Sandra Dee, Lousy with 
Virginity and other big titles such as Its 
Raining on Prom Night and Beauty 
School Dropout.
The stage was trimmed with blow
ups of senior high pictures taken twenty 
years ago; the set was three huge photo
graphs plus moveable stairways, tables and 
chairs. The pictures provided the perfect 
atmosphere, girls smiling far-away smiles 
under bee hive hairdos, boys grinning out 
from under horrendous pompadours.
Grease is hardly a classic, but it is 
a fun show, especially if you own a pair of 
saddle shoes.
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL
UUUNGOTAND ITE VOIES
Co mumm il
ONE AFTERNOON ONLY 
Saturday, February 24  2:30 P.M.  Heinz Hall
Miss Gish, in person, tells about her great career in 
Hollywood, the early days, the films she made, the 
celebrities who starred with her. The clips she uses 
as illustration are from films that are now the great 
movie classics'.
Tickets: $2.50, $3.50, $4.50
at Hein/ Hall Box Office (281-SOOO), Gimbels, 
Horne's, Kaufmann's and National Record Marts. 
20u discount to students .it Heinz Hall Box Office.
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL FC
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING
The Polish Mime Ballet Theater
Moscow International Competition Gold Medal Winner
Tues., March 6 at 8:30 p.m., HEINZ HALL
Modern, lyrical, vital and frequently erotic, 29 
dancers, create their own near magical language 
by means of movement, images, light and sound.
"Unlike anything we usually see" . . . The London
Daily Mail
Tickets: $4.00, $5.00, $6.00
at Heim Hall Box Office (281-SOOO), Gimbals, Horne's, Kaufmann's 
and National Record Marts.
20% discount to students with 10 at Heinx Hall Box Office.
IwBmsnm ~HEINZ HAIL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HAIL FOR THE PERFORMING
Film
Kays and ^ wards
by Doug Stone
The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-inthe-Moon Marigolds, starring Joanne 
Woodward, Nell Potts, and Roberta 
Wallach, produced and directed by Paul 
Newman; screenplay by Alvin Sargent, 
based on the play by Paul Zindel.
The Effect of Gamma Rays on Manin-the-Moon Marigolds is a movie which I 
would have preferred not to have seen, not 
that it is one of those unbearable grade B 
movies, and not that it attempts to be too 
intellectual for my tastes. It is simply 
uninteresting. Marigolds could have been 
effectively condensed into a half hour 
performance and would have been much 
easier to suffer through. There probably is 
meaning in Marigolds, but there is not 
enough to justify making a long movie.
The story concerns Beatrice Hunsdorfer 
(Joanne Woodward) and her two daughters 
(Nell Potts and Roberta Wallach), and their 
attempts to hammer out a life in the midst 
of poverty. Beatrice thinks the world is out 
to get her. One daughter is turning into a 
carbon copy of herself, and the other is a 
budding high school scientist. The movie 
revolves around Beatrice and her scientist 
daughter as the daughter works on a 
project for a science fair, and Beatrice 
dreams about a small restaurant that serves 
a good good cheesecake. It doesnt take 
long to realize that the daughter is more 
mature than the mother, and by then the 
point of the picture has already been made. 
The rest of the movie only serves to 
reiterate that point.
The performances by Roberta Wallach 
and Nell Potts are by and la^ge good, 
though the characters that they play are 
sometimes discontinuous and out of touch 
with the rest of the movie. Joanne 
Woodward gives a very uneven perform
ance and often resorts to shrieking to 
convey some sort of message.
I find it hard to say much more due to 
the fact that I couldnt keep my attention 
on the movie while viewing it.
Academy Awards 1973
This years selections for the major 
Academy Award nominations came as no 
real surprise. I was certain that The 
Godfather, Deliverance, Cabaret, and 
Sounder would be chosen as nominees 
for best picture. The fifth choice, The 
Emmigrants, amazed me, though. I saw 
The Emmigrants recently and have never 
been so thoroughly bored in my life, with 
the possible exception of sitting through 
the Russian version of War and Peace. 
Evidently I was not alone, as a good part of 
the audience departed before half the 
picture was over. I believe a picture worthy 
of the title best picture, should have
good movie. The Godfather bases its 
success on sensationalism, and not on 
achievement in art, as do both De
liverance and Cabaret. This is not to 
say that there is no place for movies of 
Godfathers genre. Indeed any movie 
that grosses over eighty million dollars in 
its first year of release must be worthwhile 
enough for so many people to have paid to 
see it. Rather, The Godfather is just not 
deserving of the title best picture. In a 
similar sense, The French Connection 
was not the best picture of 1972. The 
trend nowadays though seems to be to give 
the title best picture to the most successful 
film, and if this is the criterion, The 
Godfather certainly deserves to win.
In other major categories I cant make 
predictions as to what will happen, having 
not seen some of the movies. I do however 
have personal preferences for having actors 
and actresses not receive awards. These 
include Eddie Albert for his non-acting in 
The Heartbreak Kid, and Shelly Winters 
in The Poseidon Adventure. I have a 
special reason for singling out Shelly 
Winters even though I didnt see The 
Poseidon Adventure, and that is because 
she has convinced me through repeated 
demonstrations of poor acting (such as in 
her landmark performance in Wild in the 
Streets) that any good acting she does is 
just luck, not talent.
Here is a list of this years major award 
nominations.
Best Picture: The Godfather, Cabaret, 
Sounder, Deliverance, and The 
Emmigrants.
Best Actor: Marlon Brando for The
Godfather, Michael Caine and Sir 
Lawrence Olivier for Sleuth, Peter 
OToole for The Ruling Class, and Paul 
Winfield for Sounder.
Best Actress: Liza Minelli for Cabaret, 
Diana Ross for Lady Sings the Blues, 
Maggie Smith for Travels with My Aunt, 
Cicely Tyson for Sounder, and Liv 
Ullman for The Emmigrants.
Best Supporting Actor: James Cann,
Robert Duvall, and A1 Pacino for The 
Godfather, Joel Gray for Cabaret, and 
Eddie Albert for The Heartbreak Kid. 
Best Supporting Actress: Shelly Winters for 
The Poseidon Adventure, Jeannie Berlin 
for The Heartbreak Kid, Eileen Heckert 
for Butterflies Are Free, Geraldine Page 
for Pete and Tillie, and Susan Terrell for 
Fat City.
broad appeal. It shouldnt be a film that 
one third of the audience walks out on.
The movie that I believe will win the 
Oscar this year is The Godfather, 
undoubtedly due to the fact that it is the 
most successful film ever (yes folks, even 
more than Gone With the Wind). I dont, 
however, concede that The Godfather is 
the best picture. In my opinion, both 
Cabaret and Deliverance have far 
more to offer in terms of contribution to 
the art of filmmaking than does 
Godfather. I take issue with The 
Godfather because its success lies on a 
hugely successful book, not because it is a
There is a unique opportunity for personal enrichment available to you on 
the CMU campus. That opportunity is Mortar Board. Unlike other similar 
organizations, Mortar Board, the senior women's honorary, is distinctive 
in its goals and in the type of experience that is offers. Any CMU woman 
who will be a senior next semester or who will have completed 5/8ths of 
college her work, and currently has at least a 3.00 Q.P.A. is eligible for 
membership. If you are interested in becoming a part of Mortar Board next 
year, then we cordially invite you to attend ameeting on Sunday, March 4th, 
at 7:00 p.m. in the Faculty Dining Room in Skibo. We hope that you will 
be able to come, RSVP by February 26th by either leaving your name, 
major, and mailing address at the information desk in Skibo, or by calling, 
Jan Polansky, between 7:00-9:00 p.m. at 372-2576.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973Page 17
0
Design Department Shows Animated Films
by Jay Corpus
On February 23, the Design Depart
ment will sponsor a program of ten works 
by the experimental Canadian animator 
Norman McLaren whose innovations in the 
kinetic image have caused Picasso to call 
i them a new dimension in the art of
drawing. The main idea throughout
McLarens films is the investigation of form 
evolution rather than form conclusion, the 
narrative sequence being only a vehicle for 
visual exploration. These explorations in
clude direct drawing on blank film
(Dots, Lines),cut-out animation (le 
Merle), scratching on film emulsion to 
produce both soundtrack and image
(Mosaic), film superimposition (Pas de 
Deux), and pastel working-drawing ani
mation (Le Merle). In one of the films, 
An Interview with McLaren, the artist 
describes and demonstrates his processes 
> with film excerpts illustrating each 
method. The entire series is, in effect, a 
capsule history of McLarens work with the 
National Film Board of Canada.
McLarens films are an example of a 
reality existing only on a celluloid surface 
with no attempts to mirror so-called 
social reality, except perhaps in the case 
of Neighbors which deals with a simple 
parable. Even in that film however, the 
emphasis is on image and change rather 
than allegory. In a work like Pas de 
Deux this film reality consists of super
imposed changes through time, generated 
by the movement of live dancers, often 
resembling the handling of a theme in a 
musical fugue. Another exclusively film 
reality is the creation of music (sound in
o
time) by means of drawing on the sound
track surface of blank film footage. In 
Mosaic McLaren combines this sonicgraphic technique (a new musical notation) 
with his animation to create a sight and 
sound relationship totally unique to film 
experience. As the entire series illustrates, 
McLarens art is the celebration of the 16 
mm. film in its most natural state to date;
this film reality should be provocative 
experience for anyone interested in the 
film medium or modern theater as seeing 
and listening. McLarens films have the 
ability to absorb, interrupt and outrage. 
Response to this reality is seldom passive 
and almost always involves changing con
cepts of what film is or might be.
The McLaren Series is the 3rd part of
a four-part Contemporary American and 
Canadian Film Series which is sponsored 
by PPG Foundations and the Design De
partment. Films will be shown in Breed 
Hall, MMCC from 9:00 to 11:30 a.m. on 
Friday, February 23. Next Friday the final 
series will include animated shorts from the 
National Film Board of Canada. Admission 
to all programs is free.
m o Z X O m? 3
m
mso
</>
o
>
IF YOURE INTERESTED IN A CAREER 
OFFORTUNITY IN THE FIELD OF 
ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING KITH 
SPECIAL EMPHASIS ON AIR AND 
WATER FOLLUTI ON CONTROL, WE 
INVITE YOU TO INVESTIGATE 
FOSITIONS WITH US IN RESEARCH, 
DEVELOPMENT, AND FROCESS DESIGN 
ENGINEERING. OUR RECRUITER ILL 
BE ON CAMPUS FOR INTERVIEWS 
FEBRUARY 22 AND 23.
RADIAN CORPORATION, AUSTIN,TX.

The CMU
Activities Board 
Presentsl.
IN CONCERTTHEBYRDSandORPHAN
Sott, Mflr* 3 
at 7 and 
10 P.M. 
CMUGymnasium
Tickets $4.50
$3.50 With CMU I D.
Available at:
Skibo Information Desk 
Pitt Student Union 
Duquesne Student Union 
Heads Together in 
Squirrel Hill
<:l If
THE BEST OF THE BYRDS
GREATEST HITS, VOLUME II

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973
SPORTS
Frank Sacco (42) tips while (left to right) Mike Wegener, Gary Rentsch 
and Tom Kuhar wait.
Photo by Nick Lardas
Tartans Still Hunt Second Win
Come ntar yW//i hhaCr'Csn
by Glenn Campbell
A quiet revolution is occurring in 
college sports at Oberlin University, a 
frequent opponent of Carnegie-Mellons. 
Jake Scott, a man with a radical approach 
to sport, was appointed athletic director in
1972. Before coming to Oberlin Scott 
wrote Athletics for Athletes and The 
Athletic Revolt books which outline his 
view of sports role in modern society. 
Scott also founded the Institute for the 
Study of Sport and Society and taught a 
course on sports at the University of 
Washington. Scott is a radical whose 
theories are anathema to most college 
sports administrators.
It appeared that Scotts theories would 
never be put into practice. But the presi
dent of Oberlin, looking at his schools 
failing athletic program and intrigued by 
Scotts theories, decided to give him a 
chance.
This controversial appointment shocked 
many of Oberlins coaches, some of whom 
tendered their resignations. This worked to 
Scotts favor, allowing him to appoint 
coaches and administrators who thought 
like him. Now Oberlin is being watched 
very closely by other schools, many hoping 
Scott falls flat on his theories.
Exactly who is this modern day Karl 
Marx, as not a few sports officials have 
dubbed Scott. Jake Scott was a better than 
average athlete in track in Syracuse, but 
never the big star. His intensity was 
remarkable and while running all those 
practice miles he began to think about 
some of the phony aspects of college 
sports. When he wanted to practice on his 
own because he felt the coach wasnt
by Greg Mason
Although the 1973 Tartan wrestlers 
couldnt come up with a victory this 
season, the future certainly looks brighter. 
Coach Paul Stevas grapplers went 0-13 this 
year only their third year of interscholastic 
competition. The young Tartans always 
fought hard, but couldnt grasp that elusive
helping him to improve, his scholarship was 
taken away. He transferred to Berkeley, 
then a hotbed of protest and free-thinking. 
There his personality was formed by 
associations with other athletes and stu
dents of similar views. He got a masters 
degree and became a phys. ed. instructor.
A typical Scott appointee was Tommie 
Smith as coach of basketball and track.# 
Smith was one of the great runners in th 
world a few years ago, but now he is 
remembered for his Black Power salute at 
the 1968 Olympics. He was blackballed by 
most of sport but Scott is giving him a 
chance to coach. No one can tell yet if 
Scotts appointments will have the desired 
effects at Oberlin. He has already 
strengthened the womens sports program 
and more students are enrolled in phys. ed. 
because of Scotts new courses.
Carnegie-Mellon and other schools 
should take a close look at Oberlirf. Sport 
can play a very positive role in learning, 
perhaps more then any other extra
curricular activity, and in this age of 
big-money college sports Scotts athletics 
for athletes approach should be practiced.
In a few yeafs he was well-known 
because of his books and his influence on 
some athletes. His view that athletes should 
run their sports, unshackled by phony rules 
about amateurism and coaches who only 
care about winning, was naturally opposed 
by the old guard. This doesnt mean Scott 
likes to lose. Scott was and is a fierce 
competitor, but to him the competition is 
what counts. He wants his teams to do well 
but he realizessport is only a game and we 
have let it become too prominent in 
American society. (Johnny Majors take 
note.)
First victory.
The first year of PAC competition took 
its toll on C-MU and injuries plagued our 
inexperienced wrestlers. The only match 
winners of the season werev.Mike Veltri, 
118 pouiyis, and Vic Koger^ ,y>7, the only 
two no^i-fresl\m^n qjy the. team; and Mitch 
Lapman, 177. and %raaMorrow. 134. All 
the matmen, however, put forth extraby Roger Geddes
In last weeks action for the varsity 
basketball team, Carnegie-Mellon came 
through with two very commendable 
performances. However, they lost both of 
those games to Washington and Jefferson 
College and Denison University by close 
margins and also lost to Marietta, this time 
by a large margin.
Against Denison Saturday, nothing 
seemed to go as planned from the playing 
of the Star-Spangled Banner to the finish 
of the game. CMU kept the score close 
for about three quarters of the game. The 
score at the half saw Denison in front 
37-32 but C-MU came out of the locker 
room to cut that lead to 3 with a quick 
basket. But with Sacco and Domenick 
fouling out of the game, Denison increased 
their lead from 3 points to 14 points and 
the game ended 81-58 in favor of Denison. 
Sacco led the Tartans with 15 points while 
Jordan, Rentsch and Domenick each had 
10.
The Tartans played one of their closest 
games of the year against Washington and 
Jefferson last Thursday. The lead of the 
game changed hands 14 times in the first 
half and in the second half the score was
period entertainment before succumbing to 
ordinary efforts to make practice and 
showed dramatic improvement as the 
season progressed.
The seasons last match against Grove 
City, was exciting for the home fans even 
though C-MU lost, 45-9. After a forfeit by 
Grove City, A1 McCurdy provided fine first 
his lack of experience. Brad Morrow, 
C-MUs only winner; followed with a 
decision over his man, and John Urik, 142, 
Den OConnell, 150, and Tom Veltri, 158, 
furnished lively middle weight action. 
Rogers and Lapman could not unfortun
ately come up with the big points when 
they were needed, and two forfeits by the 
Tartans closed the bout and the season.
Still vying for individual honors, some 
of the wrestlers will be headed for Hiram, 
Ohio, this Friday to battle in the PAC 
Championships. The regular season has 
ended, dismally perhaps, but the Tartans 
do have hope for the future. Almost 
entirely freshmen, the team may possibly 
be joined by sonje blue-chippers next year. 
In any case, the basically untriedrwrestlers 
of this season will have a year behind 
them.
tied 7 times. 
CMU went in at half-time with a 2 
point lead, 38-36, as Sacco connected on a 
jumpshot with three seconds left on the 
clock. Through the second half, W & J 
maintained a small lead until Domenicks 
two points put C-MU into the lead, 60-58, 
with 7:29 left to play. But W & J then sank 
three straight field goals and with a three 
point play, the deficient was now seven 
points, the widest margin the game had 
seen. Then with four minutes left to play,
66 Frank Sacco departed from the game 
with 5 fouls and the height advantage of W
& J was increased. The final score was 
79-72. Ralph Domenick paced the team 
with 23 points while Wegener had 18 
points. Gary Rentsch atso added 15 and 
Sacco had 10 with 10 rebounds.
The game against Marietta was not 
nearly as bright as the other two games. 
C-MU could only manage 10 points in the 
first half and lost the game 83-46. Mike 
Wegener led the team with 10 points as the 
Tartans record dipped to 1-17 overall.
In action this week, C-MU will face 
Allegheny, Monday away, league-leading 
Hiram, Wednesday away, and then return 
home to meet Hiram again at 2:00 p.m. 
Saturday.
Photo by Nick Lardas
Gary Rentsch with a jumper
Photo by Bruce Edelston
Tartan Vic Rodgers squares off against a Grove City opponent
Dismal Year Ends for Wrestlers

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973Page 19
Women Cagers With 
Winning Record
I.M. RacesMU INTRAMURAL BASKETBALL 
STANDINGS
by Sybelle Mryczko
On February 6th, the Tech women 
swept Penn State (Fayette) with a 
tremendous 46-20 victory. The CMU 
team jumped off to an early first quarter 
lead, 12-1. By halftime the Tech team had 
far outdistanced the game P.S.U.F. team, 
28-7. Due to this rather lopsided lead Miss 
Fisk, the Tartan coach, was able to play 
the second team for a good part of the 
second half. Consequently most of the 
team was able to get on the board.
Scoring: Elly Zimmerman, 12; Marty 
Lisberger, 10; Cindy Whitmore, 8; Sybelle 
Mryczko, 8; Pat Salapow,2; Linda 
Ackerman, 2; Sandy La Pietra, 2; Pat 
Berry, 2.
Riding high, but with guard Pat Salapow 
absent, the Tech women took on the tough 
Pitt Panthers. In a very physical game, 
C-MU took the lead for a short time. 
Despite an aggressive defense, the team 
went down 5-15 by the end of the first 
quarter. Remaining tough, giving basket for 
basket, C-MU could not overtake the 
charging Panthers. The CMU women fell 
further behind, unable to keep up the 
paceCindy Whitmore had a cold hand, 
scoring only twice on foul shots. The 
C-MU womens basketball team left Pitt 
still still looking for that first victory 
against the Panthers.
Scoring: Elly Zimmerman, 12; Marty 
Lisberger, 9; Cindy Whitmore, 2; Fran 
Pauley, 2.
The February 10th Bethany-CMU 
game slipped away from Tech as did many 
of the teams passes. Poor foul shooting 
(less than 35%) also accounted for the 
46-31 defeat at the Irands of a better than 
average Bethany team. At one point in the 
fourth quarter C-MU crept within 2 points 
but were unable to sustain their 
momentum. With experience the passing 
should improve and tech looks forward to 
a re-match next year.
Scoring: Cindy Whitmore, 19; Elly
INTERESTED 
IN AN 
INTERNATIONAL 
CAREER?
Mr. Thomas E. Reber, Jr
will be on the campus
Wednesday,
March 7, 1973
to discuss qualifications for 
advanced study at 
THUNDERBIRD 
GRADUATE SCHOOL 
and job opportunities 
in the field of 
INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
Interviews may be scheduled at 
Bureau of Placements
THUNDERBIRD 
GRADUATE SCHOOL 
OF
INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
Glendale, Arizona 85301
Affiliated with 
The American Management Association
For Gym
As of Sunday, Feb. 25, 1973, the gym
nasium will be open between 1:00 p.m. 
and 5:00 p.m. on a trial basis. Turnout will 
determine whether or not the gym remains 
open on Sundays.
Get Together I. MAJOR LEAGUES
Zimmerman, 5; Marty Lisberger, 4; Fran 
Pauley, 3.
Anxious to renew their winning streak 
the CMU womens basketball team 
soundly defeated Carlow 46-31. C-MU 
jumped to an early 13-1 first quarter lead 
despite a crack up involving star forward 
Cindy Whitmore and a Carlow defensive 
player. Carlow choked the Tech offense 
while penetrating the defense and were 
only down 4 points by the half. Linda 
Ackerman was high scorer with 2. 
Refreshed after half-time oranges, Cindy 
Whitmore and Elly Zimmerman bounced 
back with 8 and 7 points respectively. The 
fourth quarter saw the Tech women match 
Carlow basket for basket to maintain a 15 
point lead.
Scoring: C. Whitmore, 13; E.
Zimmerman, 12; M. Lisberger, 10; R. 
Potts, 4; L. Ackerman, 3; F. Pauley, 2; B. 
Toole, 2.
On Saturday, February 17th, the Tech 
women brought their seasons record to 4-3 
at Genevas expense. Cindy Whitmore 
starred again, putting in 11 in the first 
quarter while the tough Geneva women 
were held by the Tech defense to only 6.
Geneva opened up in the second quarter 
with 11 while holding C-MU to 6. But 
Tech remained cool and kept ahead of the 
ever charging Geneva team. As the game 
entered the fourth quarter Tech was only 
up by 7. Time and again Geneva came 
within a basket of the C-MU women, but 
the defense, led by guard Sybelle Mryczko 
and Fran Pauley held, while crucial baskets 
were supplied by center Elly Zimmerman 
and forwards Cindy Whitmore and Marty 
Lisberger. Each one was greeted 
uproariously by the fired up C-MU team. 
The game remained close, decided only in 
the last seconds when a Geneve player 
missed one of two free throws. Final score 
read Tech 38, Geneve 37 and 
pandemonium reigned.
Scoring: Cindy Whitmore, 21; Marty 
Lisberger, 12; Elly Zimmerman, 5.
Sunday Hours
by Dave List
C-MUs intramural basketball season is 
now in its next-to-last week of regular 
season play. Even still, it is too early to 
pick the winners in most of the sections.
Last week, in the majors, there was little 
change in the standings. However, Radics 
Raiders, won two more important ballgames to give themselves more of an edge 
over the third and fourth place teams. Salt 
& Pepper won their game to stay in second 
place, right behind Radics Raiders.
In the intermediate division, there 
appear to be several close finishes 
developing. The Morewood Gups are 
leading the Warriors section of the Western 
Division. Their closest rival, the Purple 
Avengers, has two more losses than the 
Gups. However, the Gups have yet to play 
the Players and the Purple Avengers, who 
might well ruin their bid for an undefeated 
season. In the Lakers section of the 
Western Division, the Purple Gnurples are 
one game away from clinching the section 
title. In the event of the season ending with 
the Purple Gnurples and the Players having 
identical records, the Purple Gnurples 
would claim the title because they have 
already defeated the Players earlier this 
season. However, a loss by the Purples 
Gnurples could cause the team to finish in 
third place without a playoff berth. In the 
Bullets section of the Central Division, the 
Polish Patriots and PKT A are trying to 
separate themselves from the rest of their 
section. The Hawks section is extremely 
close with four teams still battling for the 
two playoff spots. Should PKA A and 
the Black Magic Bloods tie for first place, 
PKA A would receive it because they 
have previously beaten the Black Magic 
Bloods. However, the Booahs and Buds 
have only one less loss and may still get 
into the playoffs.
The playoff spots in the Bulls section of 
the minor leagues appear to be locked up. 
Skid Row and Happy Jacks are both 
undefeated and have two less losses than 
the Truckers who are in third place. The 
Bucks section has still not played half of its 
games so it is too early to declare anyone 
the winner. The PKT Rhinos and In
decision Industries are both undefeated 
with the PKT Rhinos having one more win.
This Tuesday, at 9:00 p.m. on Court D, 
the Rangatangs and the Purple Avengers 
will be playing against each other in the 
game that may decide who gets into 
playoffs in their section.
Arbys
1973 Roast Beef at 1958 Burger Prices.
"Coupon Valid Now Through Sunday, 
 February 25, 1973.'
.1
Arbys. The 4 hour Sandwich is only |5 minutes away.
TEAM
1. Radics Raiders
2. Salt & Pepper
3. Black Magics
4. Wild Bunch
5. GSIA
6. BTP A
7. Roaches
8. Scrow
9. Mothers
10. BTP Z
11. SAE A
12. ATO A
13. 01 Men
II INTERMEDIATE LEAGUES 
Western Division
WARRIORS
TEAM
1. Morewood Gups
2. Purple Avengers
3. Rangatangs
4. TDP
5. DU
6. ROTC
7. SAE B
LAKERS
TEAM
1. Purple Gnurples
2. Players
3. Over the Hill
4. Shrinks
5. Oakland As
6. Greys Gonads
7. Fringe B
Central Division
BULLETS
TEAM
1. Polish Patriots
2. PKT A
3. KS Jags
4. The Dec 5
5. Tarmac
6. Commuter Gaz
7. ATO
HAWKS
TEAM
1. PKA A
2. Black Magic Bloods
3. Booahs
4. Buds
5. Pedora Heights
6. KS Drags
7. SN
III. MINOR LEAGUES 
BUCKS
TEAM
1. PKT Rhinos
2. Indecision Ind.
3. Scobell 2
4. Sloof
5. Mosquitos
6. Dolphins
7. PKT Mooses
BULLS
it 1971 Marketing & M
TEAM
1. Skid Row
2. Happy Jacks
3. Truckers
4. McGilldoes
5. EZ-Beefers6. DTD
7. APO Lobsters
8. PKA B
W-L
7-0
8-1 
8-2 
7-2 
5-3 
4-3 
4-5 
2-4 
2-5 
2-6 
2-7 
2-7 
0-8
W-L
6-0
5-2
4-2
2-5
2-6
1-5
1-6
W-L
7-1
7-1
4-2
5-3 
4-4 
1-4 
1-7
W-L
7-1
5-1
3-2
3-4
2-3
1-7
1-7
W-L
6-1
6-1
5-2
4-2
2-3
1-5
0-8
W-L
2-0
1-0
1-1
1-1
1-1
1-2
0-2
W-L
5-0
3-0
3-2
1-2
1-3
0-3
0-3

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973
Everybodys talking about pollution,
Woodsy Owl
has 104 ways to stop it.
Sure.
We all know how awful pollution is. And we all know 
that we have to start soon if were going to save America. 
But where do we start? And how?
Some of the answers are right on this page. Woodsy, 
the nations antipollution owl, came up with 104 things that 
you and your family and neighbors can do. Today.
Tear out this page. Read it. Remember it. And make 
sure that everybody gets a good look at it. Even tack it up 
on a bulletin board. Remember. It's up to all of us to fight 
for our environment. We only have one earth. Lets make 
sure its here for our children, and their children to enjoy.
No. 1 I. tarn these Woodsy Owl "Hoots." lei) others ;ihout 
Woodsy Owl, and encourage them to help in our light against 
pollution.
No. 2 Collect cans, iKittleand papers and take them to the 
nearest recycling center. If there is no recycling center near you. 
contact your local city or county offices and encourage the estab
lishment of such centers.
No. 3 Encourage Public Service groupto arrange tor the col
lection of trash in your home town for recycling.
No. 4 Separate your household trash. Smash cans and pul m 
one l*>x; bottles iii another; papers in another. This makes recycling 
easier.
No. 5 Don't throw away old clothes and furniture. Give them 
to someone who can use them or repair and sell. Every thing that 
doesnt land in the trash pile means that much less to lx' burned or 
disposed of in some wav.
No. 6 Start an "ecology cupboard''in your home. Store reusable 
itemlike string, paper, boxes, cartons, plastic containers, ribbon, 
varn. Reusethem before discarding. Be sure storage is neat and sale.
No. 7 Encourage companies to discover ways to reuse or safely 
dispose of plastic products. Right now, the only way to dispose of 
plastic is by incineration. This adds to our air pollution problems.
No. 8 Encourage companies to raise the bottle-deposit sum to 
encourage the return of bottles.
No. 9 When possible, ride your bike or walk to meetings, 
school, work. etc.; encourage others to do the same
No. 10 Form car pools and share the ride to work, school, 
meetings, etc.; encourage others to do the same.
No. 11 Press for action by automobile manufacturers to pro
duce a smog-free engine.
No. 12 Ask for low-lead or no-lead gasoline for your car.
No. 13 Keep your engine properly tuned iapproximately 
every 10.(XX) miles . Encourage others to do the same. This cuts 
down on exhaust emissions and helps reduce air pollution.
No. 14 Keep boat engines properly tuned and encourage others 
to keep theirs tuned also. An improperly tuned lx>at engine causes 
more petroleum wastes to go into the water and air.
No. 15 Encourage your fishermen friends to pick up their old 
fishing line or someone else. If left on the ground it can kill or in
jure birds and small animals.
No. 16 When you take photographs, pick up used film packs. 
The packform inter and some chemicals in {lie packs can poison 
animals.
No. 17 Encourage everyone to "Take only pictures. .Leave 
onlv Footprints."
No. 18 Put metal tabs from drink cans and plastic carriers for
Mx-packs in trash cans They are hazardous to animals as well as 
being a litter problem
No. 19 Keep your transistor radio volume set moderately. 
Noise is a form of pollution too
No. 20 Encourage local officials to reduce noise pollut ion along 
freeways and heavily travelled streets by proper tree and shrub 
plantations.
No. 21 Encourage everyone, including local park officials, to 
plant just \wi more tree or shrub. Trees play a major part m puri
fying air; the oxygen they release dilutes pollution in the air. Trees 
also help regulate temperatures; tree transpiration cools the air like 
a gigantic air conditioner.
No. 22 As k Mom. when she does the family wash, to measure 
detergents carefully, using only enough to get clothes clean.
No. 23 Place small pieces of leftover soap in a piece of Mom's 
discarded nylon hose; give it to a child to bubble up their bath. This 
use up bits of soap, recycles the piece of nylon hose and cleans the 
younger generation, all at the same time!
No. 24 Run your dishwasher only once a day. or less, depend
ing on size of your family. This helps to conserve water.
No. 25 Pul a brick in your tank! A brick in your toilet tank 
reduces the amount of water used to flush.
No. 26 Turn water faucets off firmly to stop leaking and con
serve water.
No. 27 Dont leave garden hoses and faucets running for long 
periods of time. Leave law n sprinklers on just long enough to w ater 
grass thoroughly but not iong enough for water to run-off down 
the street
No. 28 Dont throw trash in streams, lakes, rivers, and oceans; 
it belongs in a trash can. not in our water supplies.
No. 29 Don't hide your trash in the snow. When the snow 
melts in the spring, you'll be the cause of sight and water pollution
No. 30 Are there adequate litter containers in your city parks, 
schools and nearby recreation areas? If not. discuss the matter with 
public officials; offer to help obtain used oil drumService stations 
will often donate drums p; clean, paint and decorate them with 
Woodsys slogan "Give A-1 loot I ton't Pollute." -
No. 31 Keep beaches, parks and roadsides clean. Irge your 
friends to do the same.
No. 32 Organize "Hooter Patrol" and, with the aid of the 
members, look for pollution problems in your area. Then take 
action to stop these problems.
No. 33 Dont spray paint on rocks, fences or buildings. This 
causes sight pollution and makes a countryside or city street ugly
No. 34 Picking plants and wildflowers leaves the land bare, 
uglv and subject to erosion. Leave them there for all to share!
No. 35 Read instruct ions and con tenis carefully before buying 
anv kind of pesticide.
No. 36 I se chemical pesticides sparingly. Follow directions 
carefullv.
No. 37 Pull your lawn weeds out by hand. T'nis-is good, 
healthful exercise and eliminates the need for applying herbicides.
No. 38 Dispose of excess pesticides and their containers ac
cording to instructions on the label or advice of County Agents 
Keep em out of drains and water.
No. 39 A verage air fresheners and deodorizers are a lot strong
er. chemically, than their names imply. Open windows and doors 
to let in fresh air: thiwill do much to rid your home of offensive 
odors
No. 40 Several bowls of vinegar placed in a smoke-laden 
room will clear the air quickly. Any liquid has smoke-ansorbing 
qualities. A drop of cologne m water Tvill help too.
No. 41 Do you see something ecologically unsound? Write to 
the company, calling attention to the pollution they are causing... 
this can help.
No. 42 Filter-tip cigarettes can be harmful to cesspools and 
even the largest city sewage processing plants. Pul them in ash
trays. not drains and toilets.
No. 43 Some dyestuffs do not break down biologically and 
should be regarded with a wary eye. White tissues and paper do 
not contain dye.
No. 44 Be an ecologically aware shopper. Dont buy goods 
whose by-products or residues result in unnecessary trash.
No. 45 Support adequate local anti-litter and pollution laws 
and their proper enforcement.
No. 46 Public officials can help encourage interstate cooperation'to control water, air and land pollution on a regional basis.
No. 47 Accumulated wire coat hangers can be tied in bundles 
and returned to your cleaner for reuse. If you throw them out they 
add immensely to the garbage problem.
No. 48 Clean, clear and disinfect sinks and drains with 
ordinary table salt. Salt is not toxic, and it has antiseptic and disin
fectant properties, as well as abrasive, cleansing ones.
No. 49 Help decrease the mountains of garbage we generate 
. each day by using cloth napkins.
No. 50 Protest overpackagmg of fresh foods to store managers.
No. 51 Make sure your car has the required smog device and 
have it checked regularly.
No. 52 If you put your garbage on the street for collection, 
make sure the container is spill-proof. If you live in buildings with 
incinerators, follow instructions so you dont litter incinerator 
rooms.
No. 53 Organic materials 'like cooking fat) clog plumbing 
and septic tanks, causing sewage overflow. Put them in your 
garbage pail... not your sink.
No. 54 Return nutrients to the soil. Start a compost pile with 
leaves and grass clippings. Never burn leaves and trash.
No. 55 Smokey Bear is so right! Be careful with matches... 
fires cause air, water and sight pollution.
No 56 Use a hand mower if your lawn is small. Keep gasolm 
operated tools in top condition so noise and exhaust fumes are 
minimized.
No. 57 A littered picnic area is spoiled for everyone Dispose 
of your trash properly anti pick up discards left by others.
No. 58 V our house should lxwell insulated and tree-shaded 
to minimize fuel consumption in winter and air conditioning loads 
in summer. This helps to keep power loads down and helps stop 
pollution.
No. 59 Dont use washers and dryers during peak electrical 
load hours (5-7 pmi. The strain at your local generating station 
may add to air pollution.
No. 60 U se low wattage bulbs in lamps not used for reading 
and turn out lights not being used to conserve power.
No. 61 Carry a litter bag in your car and boat. Bring it home 
and dispose of it properlv. after vour trip.
No. 62 Encourage local newspapers and civic club publica
tions to publish facts on progress being made to help slop 
pollution. Help keep everyone informed.
No. 63 Don't sound your horn unless safety dictates. Keep 
your muffler and tailpipe repaired. This will help reduce noise 
pollution.
No. 64 S et up a "cleaner environment eorner" in your school 
or city library. Include hooks, magazines, reprints and pictures on 
ecology, is well as Woodsy Owl materials.
No. 65 Help create community interest m schools. Focus on 
litter problems and efforts to combat it. Student governments can 
set up good housekeeping rules for school Use and enforce them 
Establish a school environment improvement club or committee 
including faculty and students.
No. 66 Proper engine maintenance to reduce smog and Jitter 
prevention instruction can be integrated into driver training. Sug
gest this to your school.
No. 67 Encourage teachers to write or contact local offices of 
agenciewith active anti-pollutKin programs for information:
No. 68 Promote a teenage "Cleaner Environment" campaign 
It) help clean up all kinds of pollution.
No. 69 As k national organizations and corporations for in
formation and assistance. Many have experience in environmental 
improvement programs and are willingJx) help.
No. 70 Examine your place of work; if you find pollution 
problems caused by your production, take steps to reduce or elimi
nate them. Make sure there are adequate trash receptacles on the 
premises.
No. 71 Encourage installation of -crubber systems on stacks 
to eliminate noxious emissions inuTthe air.
No. 72 Encourage installation of modern, adequate waste 
disposal equipment on local industry operations.
No. 73 Be sure contaminated water and sewage is not dis
charged into local rivers, lakes and streams. Seek the installation 
of adequate water treatment plants.
No. 74 Talk to religious groups. Stress the spiritual value of 
nature and man's dependence on it for his very existence.
No. 75 Encourage the production of ecology films for school 
distribution.
No. 76 Encourage companies to locate new facilities so that 
employees can use mass transit systems or help their employees 
form car poo!-.
No. 77 Help restore natural beauty to areas where raw 
materials have been stripped.
No. 78 Seek adoption of safeguards to prevent oil spillage 
from tankers and offshore drilling. Help in the clean-up effort 
wherever spillage occurs.
No. 79 Discourage the erection of signs that contribute to 
sight pollution.
No. 80 Seek elimination or control of horn blasts, factory 
whistles or other loud sounds that add to noise pollution.
No. 81 Contact airline companies and encourage the installa
tion of smog-free engines for their planes.
No. 82 Encourage development of packages that are reusable, 
recyclable or otherwise easily disposable.
No. 83 Encourage beautification of office and plant facilities 
where you work.
No. 84 Seekcooperationofpublicofficialstomakesurepublic 
facilities dont pollute in violation of codes already in effect.
No. 85 Encourage public officials to develop fair standards 
for all so that companies without pollution device controls do not 
gain unfair competitive advantage over companies that have these 
devices.
No. 86 Ask public officials to support basic research programs 
required to control pollution and promote recycling.
No. 87 Suggest incentives for companies to install pollution 
abatement devices.
No. 88 Attend local government meetings icity councils, 
boards of supervisors, etc. i and ask about their plans to control 
pollution; offer your assistance.
No. 89 Support measures to improve our environment and 
reduce pollution...even if it costs money . . .and it will!!
No. 90 Work with official city beautification committees. If 
none exist, help create a citizens' committee thru support of 
Chamber of Commerce, womens and service groups. PTA and 
youth organizations.
No. 91 Organize a community conference and discuss positive 
approaches to pollution control. Invite public officials, representa
tives of labor and industry as well as other interested groups and 
individuals. Get all the facts and initiate action programs.
No. 92 Survey community opinion to determine how much 
support there is for cleaner environment programs ll there isnt 
enough. . educate the people for their support.
No. 93 lie sure your community lakes advantage of grants 
provided by HUD) U.S. Dept, of Housing and Urban Ik'velopment tor urban area beautification programs
No. 94 To decrease sight pollution, urge cit> officials to 
provide and maintain belter, benches, bus shelters, lamp posts, 
street signs and trash containers.
No. 95 U rge public officials to adopt a sensible ordinance to 
govern installation of commercial and industrial sign-, (including 
billboards).
No. 96 Encourage local home builders to develop a program 
of leaving as many t rees as possible when they develop a suhdi vision.
No. 97 Encourage aesthetic plantings around freeways and 
public buildings to include plants and trees that have a higher 
resistance to air pollution.
No. 98 Enlist the help of local news media to help in pollu
tion control efforts State purpose clearly to elicit strong editorial 
support. Present all facts and avoid one-sided statements.
No. 99 Teach your children a reverence for life, inspire them 
with a knowledge of Nature. This will motivate them to work for 
and demand a cleaner environment throughout their lives.
No. 100 There is no season for pollution, it occurs every day. 
all year. IJo something each day to fight pollution. Encourage 
others to do the same!
No. 101 If you own a trail bike, learn where the proper trails 
are located and, use them! Tires that go off the trail cause 
erosion. Erosionpollules, killing fish and plants.
No. 102 Encourage your local trash Collection company to 
collect cans, bottles and papers in separate containers for recycling. 
This will also help reduce the solid waste problem
No. 103 Encourage your telephone and power companies to 
place their utility lines underground.
No. 104 Work with department stores and telephone com
panies lo help collect old directories and catalogs for recycling.
Give a hoot! Dont pollute.Jerm
