The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 16, February 7, 1984.
Campus housing rates to increase by 7.6%
Idea to attract freshmenMetallurgy adds option
By SANJAY AGNUIAL
Tartan Staffivriter
Metallurgy will be adding a new electron
ics materials option to its undergraduate 
curriculum.
The first two years of the curriculum 
remain the same, but in the junior year there 
are two new courses and four in the senior 
year. The project lab may now act more like 
a training session with an industrial com
pany aiding it.
The idea behind the new curriculum is to 
give the student a firm grip on the funda
mentals of metallurgy, while allowing him 
to come to terms with the latest innovations 
and branches of material science.
The steady decline of the steel industry in 
the USA, which is accentuated in Pitts
burgh, has caused many freshmen to shy 
away from the metallurgy' department 
The students concerns reflect in the prescontmued on page 2
New gym plans in motion
Bv NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan News Editor
Housing rates are going up an average of 
7.6% next year.
The increase is the result of several factors 
according to the Committee on Auxiliary 
Services, including loan payment and tele
phone costs rising 19% and 11.3%
respectively.
We have to make a provision for paying 
loan principal and interest, said Oscar 
Mayer, Director of Auxiliary Services. 
Because loan costs are equal to the expected 
life of the building, we have construction 
loans going back as far as 1957.
The university is also paying off recent 
loans from the College Housing Program, 
at an interest rate of 3%.
The divestiture of American Telephone 
and Telegraph (AT&T) is the main reason 
university telephone costs will rise to over 
$200,000, according to Mayer. A study is 
underway that will determine the feasibility 
of a switch to a university-owned system, 
including a comprehensive rewiring for 
1986.
Other budget increases include housing 
administration expenses, 2%, personnel 
costs and rent 6% each, groundskeeping/ 
locksmiths and utilities 7% each, and over
head, 8%. There was no increase in
housekeeping services, maintenance services 
and materials, or replacement furnishings.
Im not too pleased about it. But there 
isnt a lot we can do. The increase is totally 
justified, admitted Tom Rieger, President 
of Student Dormitory Council.
Housings largest summer project will be 
addition of new furniture. Morewood BTower, E-Tower third floor, Boss, Shirley, 
Donner first floor, and Mudge first floor wall 
all be receiving some kind of new furniture 
for a cost of over $335,000.
Donner, Mudge, and E-Tower will see 
various improvements, and electric wiring 
and lighting replacement will begin in sev
eral buildings.
Most room rate increases fall between 7% 
and 8%, with the price of a prime double, the 
most common type of housing, rising to 
$2150 or 7.5%.
Marybelle Apartments face the largest 
increase, 10%, while Shirley Apartments will 
not increase at all.
We wanted to make Shirley a better cho
ice, said Mayer. By comparison Marybelle 
was underpriced.
Besides all the new furniture, we felt not 
raising the rate would make Shirley a better 
value for upperclassmen, compared to the 
other off-campus apartments, added 
Anthony Martin, Director of Housing.
1,700 people.
A few students remarked that expanded 
facilities would be an improvement over the 
present gymnasium. Brian McCue, a sopho
more in H&SS, stated, I feel that a new gym 
continued on page 3
In this issue
News
Believe it or not............................page 3
Counseling Center workshops .... page 5 
Features
Teacher of Month........................page 7
Variety adds spice............................page 9
Entertainment
Grammy preview............................page 11
Billy Joel re-releases album...........page 12
Sports
Menss hoops ends loosing trend . page 17 
Women also end streak of 11 .... page 19 
Editorial
Music affects students...................pag* 26
photo by Todd Prario
Director of Housing Tony Martin says it is important that students understand housing is 
generally self-sufficient
Martin also feels it is important for stusummer. We have no financial support,
dents to understand housing is selfWeve been making major improvements in
sufficient, in general. We started the the area of renovations, but the only way to
process (determining expenses) last cover these costs is to raise room rates.
By DANIEL DURKIN
Tartan Staffivriter
According to Jim Banner, CMUsathletic 
director, plans for a new athletic facility are 
now underway.
If the plans are approved, a new gymna
sium will be constructed in the area between 
Doherty Hall, the Bureau of Mines, and 
Warner Hall. Banner said that there has 
been no final decision on the project, and 
that the plans arent cast in iron. The new 
gy mnasium would be able to accommodate 
a variety of activities, including varsity bas
ketball and swimming, but it is being 
designed basically for intramural and non
varsity sports.
According to plan, the building will be 
approximately 192,950 gross square feet in 
size, each square foot of construction costing 
about $85-$90. The facility would include 
three levels, containing a swimming pool, a 
3,000 square foot weight-training and nauti
lus room, 10 racquetball courts, two squash 
courts, and a 16,00(5 square fool basketball 
arena. The basketball arena would be com
prised erf five playing courts, and would 
include a varsity court capable of seating
photo by Eric Targan
'>U vv Landesbeig, veteran actor and comic, did his be Viking imitation while entertaining last 
Thwrsdays AB Lecture crowd.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanFebruary 7, 1984
Before We Put You In Charge Of The Worlds Most Sophisticated Nuclear Equipment, 
We Put You Through The Worlds 
Most Sophisticated Nuclear Training.
Metallurgy offers new 
topics in electronics
continued from pege 1
ently small class sizes, with roughly 25 peo
ple each. According to department sources, 
this is expected to double with the introduc
tion of the new option.
Department head Mel Bernstein sees the 
small class size as a sign of lack of awareness 
among students about the broadness and 
depth of the field. He talks about the impor
tant role material science now plays in the 
electrical engineering field.
Mahagan, who previously occupied a 
senior post at Bell Labs, is one of the movers 
behind the new curriculum and is cumendy 
teaching material aspects of semi
conductors and devices, a course included in 
the new curriculum.
As Mahagan put it, Any country with
out an advanced material science technol
ogy, cannot advance much further in com
puter hardware. He added, The field of 
electronic chips and integrated circuitry 
has advanced to the level of microns and 
sub-microns, necessitating a new look at the 
materials used.
Companies like IBM, Westinghouse, and 
AT&T are now concerned with the concept 
of designing newer and more suitable mate
rials for their computer hardware.
Camegie-Mellon is one of the first univer
sities introducing this new Electronic 
Materials option. Companies plan to 
involve themselves in the project labs and 
conduct summer training sessions. L
I Phone Number__________________________________________I Arp* Cod* I Best Time to Call
| This is for general recruitment information You do not have to
I furnish any of the information requested Of course, the more weL
know. the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi
tions for which you qualify
It takes more than 16 
months of intensive 
training to become a 
fully qualified officer in 
the Nuclear Navy. You 
begin with four months 
of leadership training.
Then as a Navy officer 
you get a full year of 
graduate-level training 
unavailable anywhere else at any price.
Navy training is based on more than 
1900 reactor-years of experience. Right 
now the Navy operates over half the 
nuclear reactors in America. And the 
Navys nuclear equipment is the most 
sophisticated in the world. Thats why 
your Navy training is and must be the 
most sophisticated in the world.
As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, 
you have decision-making authority 
immediately. You get important manage
ment responsibility 
fast. Because in the 
Navy, as your knowl
edge grows, so does 
your responsibility.
Your training and 
experience place you 
among the countrys 
most qualified profes
sionals. (No surprise
that most of the men 
who operate the 
reactors in private 
industry started in the 
Nuclear Navy.)
It takes more time 
and more effort to 
become an officer in the 
Nuclear Navy. But the 
rewards are greater, too.
The rewards can begin as early as 
your junior year in college. Qualify, and 
the Navy will pay you approximately 
$1000/month while you finish school.
After four years, with regular 
promotions and salary increases, you can 
be earning as much as $40,500. Thats on 
top of a benefits package that includes 
medical and dental care, and 30 days 
vacation earned every year. More \
responsibility, more money, more future. 
So, if youre majoring in math,
engineering or the 
physical sciences, and 
you want to know more 
about a future in 
nuclear power, fill in 
the coupon.
Todays Nuclear 
Navy is an opportunity 
like no other in the 
world.
NAVY OPPORTUNITY W 342
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about 
becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy. (0N)
first(Please Print 1 Last
City
Age--------------------. +College/University
tYear in College OPA
AM a jor/ M nor
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1984The TartanPage 3
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM 
THE INTERNAL REl'ENUE SERV ICE
Changing Times survey uncovers more jobs
By TRUE L. MOSELEY .
Special to The Tartan 
The annual Changing Times survey of 
jobs for new graduates found some bright 
spots for job seekers amid what is generally 
characterized as a flat recruiting year. The 
survey, which is unique in that it seeks 
responses only from employers intending to 
hire graduates this spring, uncovered more 
than 100 companies and government agen
cies with definite job openings.
The employers with firm plans to hire 
aduating seniors this year are listed in a 
special supplement, 101 Companies with 
Jobs for New College Grads, in the Febru
ary 1984 issue. Changing Times is pub
lished by Kiplinger Washington Editors, 
Inc.
While many firms said their campus 
recruiting has been curtailed as a continu
ing result of the recession, many others 
offered encouragement, especially to stu
dents with specialized skills. About 40% of 
the companies surveyed reported that they 
are having difficulty finding qualified can
didates for certain kinds of jobs. Those job 
openings are mostly in technical fields, such 
ks engineering, physics, dairy' science and 
nanufacturing. But some organizations 
eport shortages of applicants for such 
iiverse jobs as economists, linguists, restaunt managers, intelligence officers, physiians and nurses. A listing of these 
ompanies is part of the issue.
Overall, about 40% of the companies 
esponding said they plan to hire the same 
umber of grads as they did last year, and 
0% say they plan to hire more this year. 
)nly 18% report they will hire fewer.
The special section provides a brief des
cription of each organizations principal 
products and services, along with an address 
where applicants should send their resumes. 
In addition, each listing specifies the type of 
academic background wanted, and the 
actual job categories to be filled. Many 
employers have listed candidates in short 
supply so that individuals with those skills 
will have an added incentive to apply.
Besides the list, this years job section pro
vides an overview of the current job market, 
and includes specific suggestions about 
writing a successful job-seeking letter, pre
paring for an interview and adjusting to the 
demands of a first job.
The graduates most in demand are those 
with engineering degress; 65% of the com
panies in the listing report they need gradu
ates in various engineering specialties, from 
electrical to aerospace and power specialties.
Behind engineers on the demand index 
are computer science graduates, wanted by 
51% of the listed companies; accounting 
grads, sought by 48%, and businessmarketing-economics grads, wanted by 43% 
of the companies.
Further down the scale are graduates in 
mathematics (wanted by 22% of listed com
panies), physical science (21%) and liberal 
arts (17%). And 27% of the companies 
reported a need for graduates with special
ties in other categories - agribusiness; 
animal science; home economics with 
emphasis on textiles; journalism and com
munications; industrial and manufacturing 
technology; logistics and procurement; 
nuclear medicine technology; nursing and 
health care administration.
SI A student wins trip
y HOLLY BIERTEMPFEL
artan Staffurriter
An escape weekend for two was one of 
veral prizes awarded to CMU students in 
[he Ripleys Believe It or Not! contest, spon
sored by the Marriott Corporation and
pxa-Cola.
Hassan Popat, a GSIA student, won the 
ocal grand prize of an escape weekend for 
wo at any domestic Marriott Hotel. Back>acks were awarded to 32 other CMU
dinners.
The national grand prize, a spring-break 
acation for two, went to a student from a 
niversity in Maryland. Second prize, a 25 
"CA color portable television set, was won 
y a student from a Virginia community
nllpge.
Based on Ripleys Believe It or Not! food 
facts, the contest ran throughout the month 
of January. To pardcipate, students had to 
fill out an entry blank and answer a multiple choice question: How much food is 
wasted in the United States per year? The 
correct answer, over 13 million tons, was 
displayed on posters and calendars which 
were available around campus during the 
fall semester and during the month of Janu
ary. Winners were drawn from entry blanks 
with the correct answers.
According to Bob Choate, director of Uni
versity Dining Services, the contest was held 
to make students more aware of foodecology, and to eliminate food waste." 
Another contest is currently being planned 
for next year.
Students desire new gym
I
ntinued from page 1
uld be a great asset to the Athletic Departent and the student population in
eneral.
Mark Sulecki, a member of CMUs crossuntry team, remarked, It woidd provide 
inch needed recreauonal facilities for
everyone.
There is a possibility of the present gy m
nasium going to CFA. Banner also said that 
a meeting will be held in the near future to 
examine the plans and decide if they are to 
be accepted. Banner declined to make an 
estimate of the final cost because the plans 
are not ready.
TELE-TAX
.. is a tax information telephone line 
to answer your tax questions. Tele-Tax 
can be used by taxpayers with both 
push button and rotary (dial) tele
phones. The local number to call and 
a list of tax topics 
is in your tax 
package.
inner
f DON
jUoheuwtid maiden &
J){ednetefatf Retina*y J5, J9H4 
itfme 4*30 fini
tftaJian ^ffweia/fieb
~ uwa a fedca o fnfufw anf/ 
teteitw a five
- c/if lyme fi/whti wf//t f/u ~ $ J.W*
IETZ3DEZ3DE3D D
 universityU CISdini"9service

---------------------------------------------------

SHTHIS
TOA
FAC ULT y MEMBER
in +ht upcoming
Faculty Referendum
iVerhrtj "Hifc
IdeaRicoHy
KEEP IT OPEN TO BtEKfONE!
jmU r t*f C-M 6 SO

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1984The TartanPage 5
Counseling centeroffers workshops dealing with student problems
Tension relieving techniques are discussed
Lockers are free in Doherty Hall
By STEVE WELLER
| Special to The Tartan
There are empty lockers without locks on 
I them on A-level of Doherty Hall for the first 
I time this year. This unusual situation is the 
result of a work order requested by Abby 
Friedman, Assistant Facilities Planner in 
the Planning Office, and completed by 
[Physical Plant on February 3. There were 18 
lockers as of last Friday.' yxAs Friedman said, Lockers are a real 
[problem. No one is in charge of cleaning 
I out lockers at the end of a term or semester.
Dean Lois Cox agrees there is a problem 
land that they are investigating ways to 
determine which lockers are empty; perhaps 
(registering lockers with Security for current 
[holders of lockers.
She notes, however, that there is a policy 
I in the Student Handbook which states, All 
I lockers must be emptied by the end of each 
jcollege year.
Cox says each fall there are problems for 
Icommuters to find lockers, since they can 
|not carry all their belongings around.
The unavailability of lockers is caused not 
jjust by other students using them, but also 
jby students who have graduated and left 
j locks on lockers'. One student who gradu
ated in 1977 left some books in a locker. Last 
lyear, the students mother found the locker 
land the padlock was still on it, with the 
[books inside.
I he problems with lockers are not 
limited to academic areas. The gym is also 
[having an extreme shortage. As a result, all 
|gym lockers need to be registered by Febru
ary 10. Those lockers not registered will 
jhave locks clipped and contents put in bags 
land labelled by locker.
Cas/? awarded
py don J.GR
edol to The Tartan
Ken J hompson and Joe Condon, 
lumbers of the technical staff of Bell Lab
oratories in Murray Hill, NJ, have been 
yarded the $5,000 Fredkin Foundation 
| i m for Computer Chess for developing the 
1,M (omputer to achieve a Master rating in 
tournament chess.
M |,he awart* was announced by Camegietrustee of the Fredkin Prize.
 Hans Berliner, chairman of the comcontinued on page 29
By MARIA RIVAS
Tartan Staffwriter
Workshops will be held by the Counsel
ing Center again this spring. Programs 
include Test Anxiety, Eating Disorders, 
Getting Close, and Effective Study 
Skills.
Test Anxiety is designed for students 
who find that anxiety prevents them from 
doing their best. Counselor Stewart 
Sadowski will conduct relaxation tech
niques and will give helpful dps on how to 
maximize individual performance this semester.
The workshop will run February 15th 
and 22nd from 4:00 p.m.-5:30 p.m. both 
days.
Dr. Rosan Hickey will be leading the 
Eating Disorders workshop. She will be 
lecturing on why people overeat and undereat, how to change and improve eating 
habits, and how do deal with eating disorder 
such as anorexia.
This program runs four consecutive Mon 
days from 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m., beginning 
February 13th.
Intimate relationships will be the main
topic of Getting Close. Mary Brand will 
discuss what intimacy is and how it is 
achieved. Types of relationship and person
ality styles will also be covered. According to 
Lorrie Rabin, head of the Counseling Cen
ter, This workshop is especially good for 
those who wish to explore the physical, 
intellectual, emotional, and spiritual 
aspects of a relationship.
Getting Close will meet on consecutive 
Thursdays from Feb. 9th to the 23rd, 
between 4:00 p.m. and 5:30 p.m.
Rabin will run the last workshop, Effec
tive Study Habits. The major subjects 
covered will be time management, study 
methods, relaxation techniques, study moti
vation, and exam preparation. Rabin says 
students feel that this is one of the best work
shops. My test scores have increased, says 
one student
The study skill workshop will run Thurs
days, February 16-March 8.
Signups for these workshops have already 
begun. Dial 578-2922 to register. Enrollment 
is limited.Shaping tomorrow...YOU
Looking to the future. And helping to shape it. 
Be a part of projects that go far beyond easily 
defined technology. Live in a world where few 
disciplines are static, few problems are simple 
and few dreams impossible... a world where 
you can make a difference.
Your background
TRW
Aeronautical/Aerospace Engineers
Computer Scientists/Computer Engineers
Electrical/Electronic Engineers
Mathematicians
Mechanical Engineers
Physicists (solid state and optics)
Where you can start
TRW offers a wide range of 
challenging opportunities in the 
fields listed; projects that range 
from theoretical studies to small, 
medium, and large hardware 
contracts for space, digital 
communications, software 
development, systems engineering 
and microelectronics.
TRW offers full support for your 
continuing education plus a work 
environment that is exceptionally 
attractive to self-motivated people.
TRW will be on-campus 
February 16 February 17
See your placement office for sign 
up information and plan to start 
shaping your tomorrow.
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required
Anti Submarine/Surveillance Systems Engineering
Avionics
Command and Control Systems
Communications Satellites/Ground Stations Systems
Communications/Signal Processing Systems
Data Handling/Processing Software Systems
High Energy Lasers
Manufacturing
Microelectronics
Missile Systems Engineering
Optical Communications Systems
Propulsion Systems
Scientific/Manned Spacecraft
Sensor Systems/Scientific Experiments
Telemetry, Tracking and Control Systems
TRW Electronics b Defense

---------------------------------------------------

w/.
Student Performers 
Needed for Spring Carnival!
Join all the fun and excitement 
and show the campus what you 
have to offer:
singers sketch artists
dancers comedians
actors mimes
or any act you can think of
Leave your name, address, and act at the Information Desk dr call 
Karen at x4621 by February 14th,
FLOWERS ARE THE GIFT OF LOVE
The Perfect Way To Say You Care
TRUE LOVE
3 exquisite roses in a bud vase 
with foliage, baby's breath 
and bow. (Each additional 
rose is $5.00)
$19.99
THE FTD HEART TO 
HEART BOUQUET
The beautiful look of 
assorted fresh flowers in 
a decorative container.
$20 - $22.50 - $25
LOVE IN BLOOM BOUQUET
Our own exclusive wicker 
baskets filled with lovely spring 
flowers and finished with 
Valentine accents.
$15-$20-$25
Wilkinsburg, 835 Penn Ave. 241-0373 
Greensburg, Greengate Mall 836-0325 
Penn Hills Shopping Center 241-3775 
South Hills, Village Square 854-4200 
Monroeville, Monroe Plaza 373-1800 
Braddock Hills Shopping Genter 271-2500 
St. Francis Hospital, 4401 Penn Ave. 681-1118
ADDA 
SPECIAL 
I LOVE YOU 
MYLAR VALENTINE
FOR ONI Y $3.50
Plum Boro, Presque Isle Shopping Center 327-5999 
Oakland, 120 Meyran Ave. 681-7962 
Allegheny Center Mall 323-8392 
Monroeville Mall 856-6170
MASTERCARDVISA
SHACKELFORDS  & MAXWELLS FLOWERSQUALITY FLORISTS SINCE 1901
IIpJuve andijjeatn
through Syracuse Universitys study abroad programs.
Study in one of SU's 27 academic programs conducted in 
England, France, Italy, Spain and other locations. Grants 
are available for a semester, a year, or a summer of foreign 
study. Want to learn more? Complete and return this ad to 
Michael Calo, Division of International Programs Abroad, 
119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, NY 13210. (315) 423-3471.
Name,
Address. 
City____. StateZip.
Program of interest
AMERICA 'S BEST DRESSED SANDWICHCOUPON DAYS
BLIMPIE MENU
ONE REGULAR SIZE BLIMPIE
HAM I SWISS99*
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER OFFER 
Coupon Exp. Feb. 28
ONE REGULAR SIZE BLIMPIE
TUNA99*
NOT VAIIO WITH ANY OTHER OFFER 
Coupon Exp. F*b. 28
ONE REGULAR SIZE BLIMPIECLUB
99
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER OFFER 
Coupon Exp. Feb. 28
BLIMPIE BEST 
Ham, Salami, Cappacola, 
Prosciuttini & Cheese 
HAM & SWISS 
HAM, SALAMI & CHEESE 
TUNA SALAD 
ROAST BEEF 
TURKEY
CLUB: HAM, TURKEY, SWISS 
-ALL CHEESE BLIMPIE 
Swiss, American, Provolone
All Blimpies are dressed with Lettuce, 
Tomatoes, Onions and a special Blimpie Sauce 
at no extra cost.
* HAVE YOU TRIED OUR BIGGER BITE
Your favorite regular size Blimpie overstuffed 
with 50-100% more meat & cheese
* BLIMPIE BLAST
Having a party? Inquire about our Blimpie Blast 
3 ft. or 6 ft. Party sub.
Offer good at store only - No Delivery
3520 FORBES AVE., OAKLAND 682-2210
Central Intelligence Agency
National 
Photographic Interpretation
Center
Do you know what an 
Imagery Scientist does?
If your Bachelors degree or area of study is in Mathematics, 
Physics, Remote Sensing, Photogrammetry, Geodetic 
Science, Engineering or Computer Science and you have 
the desire to learn, we will train you in this new dynamic 
field. A representative from CIA will provide more infor
mation concerning this exciting career opportunity.
DATE: 13 FEBRUARY 1984 
TIME: 6:00 PM 
PLACE: SKI BO HALL, HIGHLANDER ROOM
OR: SEND A DETAILED RESUME TO:
. BLDG. 213 
CIA
WASHINGTON, DC 20205 
U.S. CITIZENSHIP REQUIRED
WE ARE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Whatever it takes
Sinclair suprised but pleased with his students
Jy NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Features Editor 
When mechanical engineering professor 
ilenn Sinclair came to CMU, he was
Surprised.
Not only was he surprised at the citys 
[rleanliness but also by the students and the 
chool. This place is a greater professional 
f hallenge than any other place Ive been to. 
kit best of all, the students arent nerdy.
t trip over the cracks in the 
sidewalk.
Sinclair makes it clear that his interaction 
with students is vital. They dont take bull
shit. They know whats good to learn and if 
you dont give them quality, you hear about 
it.
To ensure that he does give his pupils 
what they want, Sinclair has implemented 
his own set of rules. Youve got to teach as
Washers and dryers break, 
aves Morewood filthy
iv SUSAN MELLING
Tartan Staffivriter 
An inch of water covered the floor in the 
basement of Morewood Gardens, com
monly known as the laundry room. The 
Counters were cluttered with wet clothes and 
lumerous washers and dryers had been 
Identified as being out of order. I had 
loped to quickly accomplish this weekly 
isk but as usual, I would be there hours 
ighting for the chance to use a machine that 
Actually worked 
This tale of inadequacies and inconven
iences exemplifies the many problems that 
loiiewood residents have encountered in 
le laundry room this past semester. From 
rashers that didnt spin to dryers that didnt 
ive off heat, many students were forced to 
year the same clothes time after time. When 
Emergencies like lack of clean underwear 
^rose, students would have to take time 
^way from studies to battle the crowds for 
)ne of the few working machines.
The responsibility for these problems lies
photo by Bob Fishel
much as possible to the enure class. And not 
only good engineering stuff, but the facts 
and theory as well. Thats the only way 
students will understand it and get profi
cient enough to find jobs.
Sinclair realizes that learning the material 
isnt easy. He compares it to running a 
marathon. To finally run those twenty 
miles, you must start out by running one 
mile a day. Then you work up to two, three,
with the Department of Auxiliary Sevices. 
However, we must also give them credit for 
the recent installation of five new washers 
and dryers to the Morewood Gardens 
laundry room. Also, each floor of E-tower 
was equipped with an additional washer 
and dryer. But why wasnt all this done over 
Christmas break?
According to Pat Miller, the vendinglaundry coordinator, There was a delay in 
getting the new machines from the manu
facturer. It was therefore necessary to close 
the laundry room for a few days this semes
ter for the installation to take place. I apol
ogize for the inconvenience, said Miller 
and I dont see any problem with the qual
ity of service for the rest of the semester.
In addidon to the recent renewal of More
wood Gardens laundry room, another facil
ity in A-tower will begin operation 
hopefully within the next few weeks. Begin
ning this year, this facility and all others on 
campus will participate in a five year
replacement program which will involve 
the exchange of all machines after five years 
of operation.
With all the new machines and programs 
for improvement, perhaps Morewood resi
dents will now be able to wear clean 
underwear.proull and Yoder to speak at next seminar
W. J. HANSEN
to the Tartan
How freshment encounter the culture of 
[0rnPuting at CMU is one topic Professor 
ee SPrull and Elise Yoder will cover at the 
llext I rC/CDEC seminar. The speakers 
^present the CSSRC (Committee on Social 
Research in Computing) at CMU 
K11 be discussing the entire range of work of 
committee.
o my mmd, the impact of computing on 
1C l^ople and culture of CMU is a crucial
aspect of the ITC project. Extensive and 
unpredictable changes will occur in how we' 
interact with each other and do our work. 
The CSSRC will help understand those 
cnanges and make the information availa
ble to planners here and in the future.
Future seminar sessions include:
 Feb. 22  Keith Slack (IBM)
Joint Projects between Univer
sities and IBM.
 Feb. 29  Jim Hoburg
(CMU, EE) Interactive Instruc
tion in the EE Department.
 March 7  James Gosling 
(CMU/ITC) A Base Editor and 
Window Manager for the Virtue 
User Interface.
 March 14  President 
Richard Cyert (CMU) Future 
Computing at*CMU.
 March 28  M. Satyarayanan 
(CMU/ITC) Current Plans for
continued on page 9
and four. Finally, you can run all twenty.
The key to this is for me to pace the 
course. And by doing this, the students 
extend their learning. Its all a matter of 
taking what they know and help them 
apply that to what they dont, Sinclair 
states.
To check on his effectiveness, Sinclair 
relies heavily on feedback. He has to first 
know what the students understand and 
remember from previous classes. He starts 
off by recalling this information, ties it in 
with current material, and goes from there. 
At every step of the way, Sinclair samples the 
His questions include the pace of the 
(too fast or slow), level of understand
ing required (too high or low), and about 
material (is it sinking in).
Another important factor in Sinclairs 
method is preparation. He believes a teacher 
should be able to present material in an 
organized manner. Ill do whatever it takes 
to be prepared. And on some occasions 
thats one helluva lot.
However, he doesnt believe in being 
overly structured. His notes are scribbled 
pages. The definitions are exact, but the 
ideas are free wheeling for lecture. I like the 
students to think through the theory.
Well, his method must be working. From 
the students he has now, their impressions 
of Sinclair are favorable. It was unique to 
notice that each of them thought him inter
esting, that he knew the material, and was 
well prepared. He pushed us to our limit 
and beyond. But how else can you learn? 
The favorable impression works both ways: 
These buggers really know what theyre 
doing.Caber Club expands its availability
By NANCY ADELSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Its a very weighted decision; to join or not 
to join. The Caber Club, CMUs exercise 
facility, has lengthened its hours in hopes of 
attracdng new members. It will now open at 
7:30 on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays 
for all the early risers.
The club, located in the Margaret Morri
son Plaza, will celebrate its first anniversary 
this March. It now boasts of approximately 
140 members, 60% of whom are male. Most 
join for the month, though semester or 
yearly memberships are available. One can 
even pay per visit.
When questioned on its difference from 
working out at the gym, club supervisor 
Kathy Paczkowski emphasized guidance. At 
the club, an instructor will lead new 
members through a specific plan created for 
what each person wants to accomplish. 
Every member has a program specifically 
designed for his or her needs.
At the gym, a student is on his/her own. 
Some of the clubs members work out both 
at the gym and the club since the equipment 
is different. The Caber Club offers Nautilus 
and Power Master machines whereas the 
gym has more free weights.
Paczkowski points out that the club is 
much cheaper than public exercise facilities, 
and that she wishes people would come 
check it out. Ninety percent of those who 
experience its environment usually stay and 
join. Could you be one of these people?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanFebruary 7, 1984
Floating campus: Semester at sea sails
By MARTY GREENHAM
Special to the Tartan
Thais right, a ship modified for educa
tional purposes, complete with classrooms, 
a 12,000 volume library, bookstore, student 
union, theatre, dining room, hospital, and 
sports facilities. An 18,000 ton ocean liner 
carries 500 students and 40 faculty and staff 
around the world for 100 days.
Many students are aware of a shipboard
the Seven Seas. The first structured study 
cruise actually goes back to 1926 when a 
group departed from New York aboard Hol
land Americas S.S, RYNDAM sailing 
around the world over a T/i month period.
Semester at Sea offers two semesters per 
year, a fall and a spring, visiting ten ports in 
the Mediterranean, Asia, and the Orient. 
The program is fully accredited and avail
able to all accredited institutions of higher
mally while in port, there are class-oriented 
field trips in which students may partici
pate. Highly qualified faculty are selected 
each semester from major colleges and uni
versities throughout the United States and 
from other countries.
Shipboard Education is unique. A 
broadly based program focuses on the com
parative aspects of societies and world prob 
lems. Properly scheduled intQ 
undergraduate plans, Semester at Sea offers 
an important international dimension to a 
students education. More than 15,000 stu
dents from over 500 colleges and universities 
have participated in this program, induding students from this campus.Explorers experienced; kayaking is a necessity
By AMY DeCAMP
Special to the Tartan
Perhaps the name The Explorers Club 
sounds dated. Makes you think of stringy, 
8-year old boys in scout uniforms running 
across fields with butterfly nets in hand, 
their glasses falling off as they go after rare 
Lepidoptera.
Connotations aside, the Explorers Club 
is CMUs outdoors club. They go rock 
climbing, kayaking, cross-country skiing, 
and sailing on the weekends. They can also 
run other types of trips  anything that 
members have the interest and expertise for. 
They will meet this Thursday evening at 
6:30 p.m. in Skibo 12. And if you want to get 
into kayaking, heres your chance  
beginners practice sessions will start this 
Thursday night, 9 p.m., at the pool. Five 
additional sessions will be held on consecu
tive Thursdays at the same time. Proficiency 
in kayaking skills is a prerequisite for going
out on trips, so dont hesitate.
Going out on club trips can give you a 
kind of challenge and satisfaction that you 
wont find elsewhere. Theres something 
special about learning to climb or kayak, 
especially if its brand new to you. Youll 
develop a sense of self-sufficiency being out
doors, and youll have a good time doing it
Although they are a school organization, 
the Explorers also take their interests out to 
the wider community. Faculty advisor Red 
Whittaker and member Rob Guzikowski 
engineered climbing stunts for the Pitts
burgh Public Theaters current production 
of K2. In this one-act play, two mountain
eering friends try to negotiate their way off 
a 600-foot high ice wall in the Himalayas. 
The script calls for an actor taking a 30-foot 
free fall; the job called for coaxing a perfor-j 
mance from the man  an actor with a fear 
of heights. Needless to say, the club countsj 
some
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive I
program, but may not know who it is for 
and what it offers. I heard there was a 
school at sea, but isnt it for sailors or ocean
ographers? This school at sea, known as 
Semester at Sea, is for qualified undergradu
ate students. It is sponsored by the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh and administered by the 
Institute for Shipboard Education. Some 
may recall the program under the name 
World Campus Afloat or University of
education. More than 60 courses are offered 
in such areas as anthropology, art history, 
business, communications, economics, geo
graphy, history, marine biology, philo
sophy, political science, psychology, 
sociology, theatre arts, and world literature. 
Many courses are specifically designed to 
study various aspects of the countries visited. 
Qasses meet six days a week 
is at sea. Although classes do not meet forHopefully, weather like this is behind us.
(ANY LENGTH) $25.00
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-MjOW^nnJE)
OOLOR
Tw. WedL 1*7 
ni i*9
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
257
United Wy
allegheny 
reproductive 
health 
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hairthe way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations you'll leav^ 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
PRECISION NO PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT APPOINTMENT ALL STY LES
Allegheny Womens Center
abortion 
tounsfltnq M'rvir*' 
inlh warmth and 
dignity Imni fM-opli 
who t are
jn oui patient 
medical clinic offertiig
 abortion
 In** pregnjniy teil*
 personal toufwlinK
 birth control W*rvK KyrtfioloflH al i *'
 Morning Aller lrV,'J*n
362-2920
Center
Medkl Center lj*t uM"1* 
fenrtMMJte rjht (h o0'1 
211 North WhitieW Mr**' 
Pittsburgh, PA IS JO*

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1984The TartanPage 9
Variety adds 
spice of life
B, JESSICA S. RUDNICK
Tartan Staffivnter
Have you ever wondered where, besides 
New York City, all the good shopping is? 
The places where you can buy all those little 
goodies that you dont need, cant afford, 
and wont want after your next spree?
Well, there are several places, all within 
walking distance of CMU, that specialize in 
unusual gifts, toys, and other assorted items 
,f interest.
The Shadyside Variety Store, located at 
^421 Walnut Street in Shadyside, does most 
business with people of college-student age 
less. They sell primarily toys and games. 
>  ] he store also has an extemely large selecRion of stickers, always a necessity for those 
' I etters home you never write. They sell staI ionery, especially the kind with those ador| |ible little cats on it, for the same purpose. 
I If youre looking for a set of marbles, a 
! Super-ball, or some strange little rubber toy 
I hat looks like a tarantula, this is the store to 
hop at.
The Essex/Truly a Treat (two stores 
linder the same roof) located in Oakland at 
11533 Forbes Avenue, caters to a more mature 
ste. The downstairs store, Truly a Treat, 
Specializes in very unusual jewelry and nice 
)little porcelain figurines. They also sell sinle earrings (not always easy to find, as
lales who are accustomed to scavenging 
leir sisters castoffs well know). Several 
d artists and craftsmen sell their wares 
tiere too.
The upper-level store, The Essex, has an 
hen more extensive sucker selection than 
le Shadyside Variety Store. They have a 
arge number of very unusual (and some[ime very humorous) greeting cards, and a 
ection specializing in vibrantly colored 
elastic storage devices. The Essex does mat
ing and framing, and they have a good 
election of posters. They also sell other col
egate necessities such as incense, weird cofmugs, and unusual beads.
If you feel like walking to Squirrel Hill,
C=T~1
by far the most entertaining shopping in 
that direction is S. W. Randall Toyes and 
Giftes, located at 5865 Forbes Avenue. You 
may have to confront old ladies and small 
children in the midst of checking out the 
stuffed animals, but the selection of wind
up toys at Randalls is unsurpassed in the
| continued from page 7
the Vice File System.
 April 4  Don Smith 
(CMU/ITC) Wiring the Cam
pus for the Vice Network.
 April 11  Lewis Johnson 
(Computer Science, Yale Uni
versity) PASCAL/PROUST: 
An Environment for Learning to 
Program.
1C seminars continue
 April 18  Preston Covey 
(CMU, Philosophy) Compu
ter Aided Instruction in Sym
bolic Logic.
Last weeks speaker, Keith Slack of IBM, 
was waylaid at the last moment by a corpor
ate meeting. We have rescheduled his talk 
for February 22.
Seminar sessions are 4 p.m. Wednesdays 
in WEH 5403.
Pittsburgh area.
They also outdo themselves at Halloween 
time for fascinating oddities. Randalls is 
not trendy (Garfield and the Smurfs are mer
cifully not the most prominent items in the 
store) but they excel in the traditional (dolls 
and miniatures) as well as the modern (pen
cils with geometrically unusual crosssection in uncommon colors). It takes a 
certain mentality to appreciate Randalls, 
but its a good placeto buy things you dont 
need.
So thats the scoop on some of the places 
nearby to purchase unusual items (espe
cially toys). Just remember that regressing
every once in a while can be therapeutic 
when the workload gets ridiculous and your 
mind is about to snap.
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621 -1988
During the time you're an undergraduate or graduate student, 
you might experience some of the following:
DEPRESSION  ANXIETY  LpNELINESS  ANGER 
FAMILY TROUBLES  QUESTIONS ABOUT SEXUAL IDENTITY  
TROUBLE WITH FRIENDS AND BOYFRIENDS/GIRLFRIENDS 
NO MOTIVATION . SLEEPING OR EATING PROBLEMS
Up to a certain level, these feelings are quite normal and will not 
bother you too much. It is when such things begin to get in the way, 
to overwhelm you, that psychotherapy might be a help.
If you are interested in seeking such help through insight-oriented 
psycnotherapy on a sliding fee scale, call 661-2300 and ask 
for Mrs. Brown. Qualified therapists will be available to speak with you. 
About 2 miles away, we are an easy bus ride from Oakland.
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center 
211 N. Whitfield St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 
A private clinic in the public service
GET YOUR CAREER OFF TO A FLYING START
It takes four years to get a college degree. How long will it take you to get a good >b?If you haven't settled on a company or corporation yet, why not get your executive career off to a flying start as a pilot or navigator in the United States Air Force? It's the finest flight program in the world, the pay is excellent, and you'll eryoy the prestige that goes with the silver wings of an Air Force pilot or navigator.It's one of the finest opportunities in the nation. And a great place to gain executive experience with million dollar responsibility. Find out today about the Air Force flight programContactCaptain John Van Juna 644-2705
/W>tA great way of We

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanFebruary 7, 1984
CIEE offers overseas work this summer
By GILLIAN BATCHELDER
Special to the Tartan
The Council on International Educa
tional Exchange (CIEE), the largest student 
travel organization in the U.S., is offering 
young people the oppportunity to work 
overseas this summer as volunteers on ser
vice projects aimed at helping local com
munities. Free room and board help to keep 
participation costs minimal.
It met and surpassed all my expecta
tions," was the reaction of one participant in 
last years program. Although work camps 
have been operating in many parts of the 
world for more than 30 years, they are still a 
relatively new concept in the United States. 
They attract young people from all over the 
world, providing them with the chance to 
live and work together on a wade range of 
projects.
"We had no plumbing or electricity and 
slept in a bam, but I think that made us 
better as a group because we really had to 
work together and help each other, 
reported a volunteer who helped convert an 
old barn into a community room 
(Denmark).
Other projects included clearing an ava
lanche on the side of a mountain (Switzer
land); performing farm chores at an 
anti-drug camp (Sweden); and housecleaning at the Technical Institute at Gdansk 
(Poland).
Except for the modest program fee of 
$100, there is no cost other than the airfare - 
and even that expense may be reduced by
special student and youth fares available 
through the Council.
Work camps, usually two, three or four 
weeks in duration, are available in Belgium, 
Czeckoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, France, 
Germany, The Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. A deadline is May 1, 1984.
knowledge of German is helpful for place
ments in Germany; language requirements 
apply in France and Spain. Volunteers must 
be at least 18 years old (except in Germany, 
which accepts 16-year-olds). Application
For more information on the program 
write or phone: CIEE, PR-WC, 205 
42nd Street, New York, NY 10017, (212)661. 
1414; or 312 Sutter Street, San Francisco, Q 
94108, (415) 421-3473.
Work abroad proffers opportunities
By GILLIAN BATCHELDER
Special to the Tartan
My summer work in London was the 
most satisfying experience of my life. 
Immersed as a part of the society, among the 
work force, facing the same problems of 
inflation and bureaucracy, one cannot help 
but come to understand how a culture, a 
people can differ  in attitudes, oudooks 
and assumptions.
This was the assessment of one student
who participated in the Work Abroad pro
gram sponsored by the Council on Interna
tional Educational Exchange (CIEE), the 
largest student travel organization in the 
United States.
Now in its fourteenth year, the Work 
Abroad program is the only one of its kind 
available in the U.S. It cuts through the red 
tape to help thousands of students obtain 
temporary work in Great Britain, Ireland, 
France, New Zealand, and for the first timeName changed
AMS becomes Industrial Management
By LEDA HANIN
Special to The Tartan
Administration and Management Science 
has changed its name to Industrial 
Management.
Charles Kriebel, head of the Industrial 
Management, believes the programs new 
name more aptly describes both the pro
grams orientation towards business and its 
relation with The Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration.
'The program is designed for juniors and 
seniors who want to combine a broad educational base with preparation for a profes
sional career in management, Kriebel says.
Kriebel notes that several course changes 
have been made to strengthen the program 
and to emphasize its management orienta
tion. The program emphasizes four key 
functional management areas: accouting, 
finance, production and marketing.
Were pleased with the programs repu
tation, Kriebel says. The program was 
accredited by the American Assembly of Col
legiate Schools of Business in 1982 and last 
years graduates w.ere highly sought after by 
business.
in 1984, Germany. With the assistance of the 
Councils cooperating student organic 
tions in each country, participants discover 
that finding a job abroad is no more difficuj, 
than at home.
Apart from a modest program fee of 
($80 for Germany), the only significant cost 
to the student is the airfare  and even 
expense may be reduced by special student 
and youth fares available through the 
Council.
. . . work abroad is a tremendous leaming experience; one is enriched with rela
tionships with fellow workers and the 
adventure of supporting oneself, rep 
another student who worked in a Paris 
boutique.
The jobs are primarily unskilled  j 
restaurants, stores, and hotels  but salaries 
should more than cover the cost of room are 
board. Some participants save enougt 
money out of their earnings to treat them 
selves to a vacation once they stop working
Employment found by participants in th 
past includes work as chambermaids orpor 
ters in Londons West End, as a hot ar 
balloon crewmember in Burgundy and as, 
wool presser in New Zealand.
The program is limited to students 
years of age or older.
AB Lectures Presents . . .
Ambassador Shevchenko
Former Soviet Ambassador
Skibo Ballroom
Wednesday, February 15th 
8:00 p.m.
Tickets will be available on or after 
Wed. Feb. 8 at the Skibo 
Information Desk for $1.00
Funded by Activities I

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
GrammysAcademy announces nominations; we give you predictions
ERNBEL BU MJR eR.E
(Grammys to the artist fc producer)
All Night Long (All Night)Lionel Richie, 
Motown, producers: Lionel Richie, James Anthony 
Carmichael; Beat ItMichael Jackson, Epic, producers: 
Michael Jackson, Quincy Jones: Every Breath You 
TakeThe Police, A&M, producers; The Police, Hugh 
Padgham; FlashdanceIrene Cara, Casablanca/'PoIyGram, producer, Giorgio Moroder; ManiacMichael 
Sembello, Casablanca PolyGram, producer: Phil 
Ramone:
ALBUM OF THE YEAR
(Grammys to the artist & producer)
Flashdance (Original Soundtrack)Irene Cara, 
Shandi, Helen St. John, Karen Kamon. Joe Esjx)sito, 
Laura Branigan, Donna Summer, Cycle V, Kim Carnes, 
Michael Sembello, Casablanca/PolyGram, producer: 
Giorgio Moroder; An Innocent ManBilly Joel, 
Columbia, producer: Phil Ramone; Lets Dance 
David Bowie, EMI America, producers: David Bowie, 
Nile Rodgers; SynchronicityThe Police, A&M, pro
ducers: The Police, Hugh Padgham; ThriRerMichael 
Jackson, Epic, producer: Quincy Jones.
NEW SONG OF THE YEAR
(A Songwriters Award)
All Night Long (All Night)Lionel Richie (Brock
man Music/ASCAP); Beat ItMichael Jackson (Mijac 
Music/BMI); Billie JeanMichael Jackson (Mijac 
Music BMI); Every Breath You TakeSung (Magnetic 
Publishers/ BMI); ManiacMichael Sembello, Dennis 
Matkosky (Intersong/Famous/Wamer Bros./ASCAP).
BEST NEW ARTIST
Big CountryMercury /PolyGram; Culture Club 
Epi<; EurythmicsRCA; Men Without Hats 
Backstreet/MCA; Musical YouthMCA.
BEST ROCK VOCAL PERFORMANCE, 
FEMALE
Faster Than The Speed Of NightBonnie Tyler, 
Columbia; Invisible HandsKirn Games, EMI Amer
ica; The KeyJoan Armatrading, A&M; Love Is A 
BattlefieldPat Benatar, Chrysalis; Stand BadeStevie 
Nicks, Modem/Atlantic.
BEST ROCK PERFORMANCE, DUO OR 
GROUP
Burning Down The HouseTalking Heads, Sire/Warner Bros.; EliminatorZZ Top, Warner Bros.; 
Heart And SoulHuey Lewis & the News, Chrysalis; In 
A Big CountryBig Country, Mercury/ PolyGram; 
Synchronicity'lire Police, A&M.
BEST ROCK VOCAL PERFORMANCE, 
MALE
Affair Of The HeartRick Springfield, RCA; Beat 
ItMichael Jackson, Epic; Cat People (Putting Out 
Fire)David Bowie, EMI America; The DistanceBob 
Scger, Capitol; I Dont Care AnymorePhil Col fin s. 
Atlantic.
BEST POP VOCAL PERFORMANCE, 
MALE
AU Night Long (All Night)Lionel Richie, 
Motown; ManiacMichael Sembello, Casablanca/Po
lyGram; 1999Printe, Warner Bros.; Thriller 
Michael Jackson, Epic; Uptown GirlBilly Joel, 
Columbia.
BEST POP VOCAL PERFORMANCE, 
FEMALE
Flashdance .,, What A Feeling Irene Cara, Casab
lanca'PolyGram; She Works Hard For The Money 
Donna Summer, Mercury; Telefone (Long Distance 
Love Affair)Sheeha Easton, EMI America; Total 
Eclipse Of The HeartBonnie Tyler, Columbia; 
Whafs NewLinda Ronstadt, Asylum.
BEST POP VOCAL PERFORMANCE, 
DUO OR GROUP
Do You Really Want To Hurt MeCulture Club, 
Virgin/Epic; Every Breath You Take Die Police, 
A&M; The Girl Is MineMichael Jackson & Paul 
McCartney, Epic; How Do You Keep The Music 
PlayingJames Ingram & Patti Ausun, Qwest/WB; 
Islands In The StreamKenny Rogers & Dolly Parton, 
RCA.
Naras
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan Asst. Entertainment Editor 
On February 28, the past years music will 
be put to its greatest test, for on that day the 
National Academy of Recording Arts and 
Sciences will present their coveted Grammy 
. Awards. For a span of just a few 
hours, the greatest living performers, producers, and songw
riters will be gathered together 
in all their finery under one roof.
When its all over, the expectations will be 
gone, and thoughts of next year! will 
abound. Some will feel slighted, others 
ecstatic. But tor most, there will be some 
surprises; the competition this year is heavy, 
and although many have called 1983 the 
year of Michael Jackson, there is a good 
possibility to suspect that the Grammy 
Awards will not reflect that.
Certainly, Jackson has received a record 
12 nominations. Yes, Thriller has become 
the top-selling album of all time. Sure, last 
months American Music Awards should 
have been renamed the Michael Jackson 
Awards. But in many of the categories, there 
are songs or performances which surpass 
those of Jackson.
In fact, Jacksons only sure win is for 
Thriller, nominated for Album of the Year, 
rhe other albums up for this honor could 
have won in any other year, but Thriller's 
monstrous success makes this category par
ticularly weighted. The Polices Synchro
nicity, and Flashdance (the first soundtrack 
to make the Album of the Year finals since 
(*rease and Saturday Night Fever in 1978) 
are the closest competitors, followed by Billy 
Joel s An Innocent Man, and David Bowie s 
Let s Dance. Joels An Innocent Man is his 
fourth consecutive studio album to garner 
an Album of die Year nomination. This 
surPasses the previous record of three held
by Frank Sinatra, the Beatles, and Stevie 
Wonder.
In the Record of the Year category, Jack
sons Beat It surprisingly takes the place 
of what should have been his Billie Jean. 
Billie Jean had the distinct honor of being 
the first video to break MTVs race barrier, 
but Beat It proved to be more popular 
with MTVs viewers, and with the increas
ing power of video music, this may have had 
a lot to do with its presence.
this respect, All Night Long (All Night) 
stands out; Richies presentation of the lyrics 
is filled with belief in their meaning and 
enjoyment. Jacksons Thriller falls short 
in these aspects.
Jackson also has a shot at the Grammy for 
Best Rock Performance by a Male with 
Beat It. His chances of winning in this 
category are better than in the Pop category, 
but there is one obstacle in his way: Phil 
Collins I Dont Care Anymore. This song
Jacksons only sure win is for Thriller, nominated for 
Album of the Year.
Beat It, however, has a good chance 
of being beaten. The record most likely to do 
this is Every Breath You Take, the beauti
ful ballad by the Police. Every Breath You 
Take spent an amazing 16 weeks at the top 
of the national music charts, and became the 
Polices biggest hit. It is also the only nondance-related song in the category. For this 
reason, combined with the fact that the 
Grammys often lean towards the Adult Con
temporary, and that Billie Jean is not 
present, Every Breath You Take will 
probably be named Record of the Year. The 
only other possible choice is Lionel Richies 
All Night Long (All Night) which had 
die dubious honor of being named the 
American Music Awards Record of the 
Year. It could have a repeat performance in 
the Grammys.
All Night Long (All Night) in fact, 
seems to have just a slight edge over 
Thriller for Best Pop Performance by a 
Male. To be sure, this category was by far the 
most difficult to choose. All of the nominees 
are excellent performances, and all were top
10 singles. The deciding factor here will be 
emotional input by the performer, and in
is perhaps one of the most emotional perfor
mances of 1983. Collins anger and pain can 
be felt surrounding the listener as the music 
and lyrics blend exquisitely into a slow, 
heavy-beating confession. Beat It could 
take the award, but watch for Collins long 
shot.
Another long shot will probably come 
away with the Grammy for Best Pop Perfor
mance by a Duo or Group: How' Do You 
Keep The Music Playing by James Ingram 
and Patti Austin. Here is one of the songs by 
Producer of the Year nominee Quincy Jones 
which helped him to earn that noi nation. 
Besides the beauty of the song itself, Ingram 
and Austin give a memorable and believable 
performance. Their rapport widi one 
another is incredible, and their voices are 
perfecdy matched. In all probability, these 
two little-known singers will defeat some of 
1983s greatest performers.
In the Best Rock Performance by a Duo or 
Group category, there will be little surprise; 
the Polices Synchronicity was their most 
successful album to date, and will, in all 
probability, soundly defeat its opponents. 
The closest possible competitor for this
Grammy is Big Countrys In A Big Coun
try, but it wont outdo Synchronicity.
Big Country is also lined up for disap
pointment in the Best New7 Artist category. 
All of this years nominees greatly deserved 
their nomination, but the greatest contribu
tion has been made by Culture Club. An 
interesting side-note to this category is that 
none of the nominees are American. This 
guarantees 1983 to be the third year in a row7 
that the Best New Artist Grammy will be 
given to an import act. Last year, Men at 
Work received the Grammy, and the year 
before that, Sheena Easton. Look for Cul
ture Club to be the third on this list.
In the Best Pop Performance by a Female 
category, as in the Male category, the compe
tition is tough. Three performances stick 
out as top contenders; Irene Caras Flash
dance . . . What a Feeling, Donna 
Summers She Works Hard For The 
Money, and Bonnie Tylers Total Eclipse 
Of The Heart. All are deserving of the 
Grammy, but only one will wralk away with 
it; Bonnie Tyler. The Welsh singer has 
made a comeback with one of the top songs 
of the year, b> ,riter/producer Jim Steinman who also scored big this year with Air 
Supplys Making Love Out Of Nothing At 
All, and Barry Manilows Read Em .And 
Weep. Steinmans absence from the Pro
ducer of the Year category is a surprise; Tyl
ers winning the Best Pop Perfonnance 
Grammy by a Female will not be.
What would be a surprise would be Tyler 
winning the Best Rock Performance by a 
Female for her album, Faster Than The 
Speed Of Night. In this category, her perfor
mance, as well as all of the others nominated 
are out shone by Stevie Nicks Stand Back. 
The vitality and strength Nicks puts into her 
continued on page 18

---------------------------------------------------

DISNEY AUDITION TOUR84
TWO EXCITING ENTERTAINMENT EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES1 The W*LT DISNEY WORLD* Vacation Kingdom, near Orlando, 
Florida is seeking professional Singers, Dancers and Musical Theatre 
Actors/Actresses Most positions are for full, one-year contracts with 
some summer seasonal employment also available Sorry, no 
professional instrumentalist auditions2 The WMT DISNEY WORLD Vacation Kingdom and 
DISNEYLAND* (located in Anahern, California) are forming a 22- 
member AM American College Marching Band for each PaiK plus, a 40-member All American College Symphony Orchestra to perform at 
EPCOT Center These positions are for summer-long employment, 
begnraig June 4 and concluding on August 18.
AUDITION REQUIREMENTS ALL AUDITIONEES:
 Must be 18 years of age by June 1.1934
 Must brmg a current resume and photograph
 Must show movement ability
AUDITION SITE PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIA February 14.1984 
Heinz Hal 
Rehearsal Rooms 600 Penn Avenue
TALENT AUDITION COLLEGE MUSICIANS
Audition cat Females -10 am Audition call 10 am-5 pm 
-2pm
Jon the Warier leaders * farniy entertainment' For addrtnnal audition 
requirements or it you need further information please caM or write Disney 
Autton Tour 84," Entertainment Dwson, PO 8 40. Lake Buena Vista FL 
32830. (305) 824-5478. (Monday-Friday only. 9 00 am to 4 00 p m EST)
Page 12The TartanFebruary 7, 1984
Billy Joel remixes old album, uncovers gold
By SCOT SUTTON
Special to The Tartan
Note: This album consists of previously 
released material.
Some song writers begin their careers 
with a bang, an incredibly powerful first 
album that skyrockets them out of obscurity 
and into the limelight. Billy Joel is one such 
artist who accomplished that feat with his 
Cold Spring Harbor album. Or, at least, 
thats what should have happened. By now, 
those of you who have never heard of this 
album are wodering just what it is Im talk
ing about, and those of you lucky enough to 
have heard this first work know1 exacdy 
what Im saying.
You see, Billy Joels career did not start 
with his famous Stranger album, not even 
with his Piano Man album. No, the fact is 
that Joel started his solo career three albums 
before that. His first was Cold Spring Har
bor, then Turnstiles, and Streetlife Serenader. For those who are fans, but have 
never heard these early works, be advised 
that some of Joels best wrork lies pressed on 
those records. And, you can probably pick 
them up at cut rates at most record stores.
Turnstiles was the first after Cold Spring 
Harbor, and many would say the best Joel 
by this time has a more comfortable sound 
on his albums, like he really belongs. His 
back-up band is not his touring band yet; 
that wont happen until The Stranger, but 
they do provide an acceptable backdrop to 
Joels lyrics, which are now as good or better
Billy Joel reviews, reflects, and remixes in 
Cold Spring Harbor.
than those from Cold Spring Harbor. Joel
isnt always dealing directly with himself in
the songs on this album, but he does deal
with personal experience. This proves to be
a fruitful vein for him, and he carries it
through almost religiously until after The
Stranger. One would note that Joel doesnt
often have a bright oudook of life. In fact,
often he is downright cynical. His views of
'.;fo V""* the world are at worst, depressing, but usually very accurate and occasionDavid Bowie, Tom Conti appear in Mr. Lawrence
By LEE BROWNSTON
Tartan Staffwriter
Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence, set in a 
Japanese POW camp in Java during 1942, is 
about the efforts of soldiers on both sides to 
understand their respective enemies. Based 
** on a novel by Laurens van der 
Post, it largely adopts the view
point of the British, even 
though it was directed by the 
Japanese director Nagisa Oshima, who is 
best known in the west for his two films of 
erotic obsession, In the Realm of the Senses 
and The Empire of Passion.
Tom Conti plays Major John Lawrence, 
a really likeable guy. The only one of the 
prisoners to speak Japanese (having lived in
Japan before the war), he serves as conduit 
between the two sides, trying to persuade his 
pig-headed commanding officer to try to 
understand their captors motives while at 
the same time trying to influence the Japa
nese to treat their prisoners in a way Euro
peans consider more humane. The Japanese 
officer in command, Captain Yonoi (played 
by Ryuichi Sakamoto, who also wrote the 
compelling music for the movie) is edu
cated, sensitive, courageous and just; but 
his difficulties understanding the bizarre 
European behavior of his prisoners drives 
him to impulsively brutal treatment of 
them.
Into this situation comes Jack Celliers, a 
continued on page 15
photo by Colin Rafferty 
An Innocent Man and
ally humorous, as in the song Angry 
Young Man from Tumstiles where he slams 
all of the reactionary rebels of the world who 
seem happiest when theyre miserable.
Not that conformity is high on Joels hit 
parade either. Streetlife Serenader is an 
album full of aspects of conformist society 
that he would like to do away with. It is also 
a bit of a hard-life-sob-story about the trials 
and tribulations of being a singer and being 
in the entertainment business. Surprisingly, 
while most artists who use these opportuni
ties to complain also lower public opinion 
of themselves, not to mention the quality of 
the album overall, Joel has, in The Enter
tainer and Streetlife Serenader, two of the 
best songs on the album. Both are
ing songs, and leave the listener thinking 
and not coming away with a soured impression of the artist.
Its a shame that it took until The 
Stranger for Joel to become recognized as a 
worthwhile talent. The Stranger, in many 
ways, marked the beginning of the decline 
of Joels quality. This is the first album that 
has songs that are commercial, made for the 
masses instead of himself. Anthonys 
Song, Scenes from an Italian Restaurant, 
and Only the Good Die Young, are all 
catchy tunes with good listenability, but 
they seem contrived, and apart from the best 
of his work. The Stranger was the album 
that set the career in motion, however, and 
its popularity inspired 52nd Street, the slick
est and most commercial of his albums to 
that point. Winner of Grammy Awards 
with tunes like My Life, which wasnt, 
and Honesty, even less so, which received 
more than adequate air play, this has to be 
the low point of the artists craft. The one 
good thing that came from these two 
albums was the resurgence of play of Piano 
Man on the air.
Piano Man, the song and the album, 
contains non-commercial work that is very 
accurate, sharp, happy, sad, and bitter, but 
gripping. The songs that come to mind are, 
of course, Piano Man, Travelin Prayer, 
The Ballad of Billy the Kid, and the 
haunting, haunted, Captain Jack. Joel 
seemed to recognize the worth of these songs 
and why they were wonderful, because, afti 
Glass Houses, another commercialize 
fiasco, he pressed Songs in the Attic. Son 
in the Attic is a reissue of select songs froi 
his early work, performed live. This is n 
the traditional Lets throw a concert on di
l983Universal City Studios,
Steve Martin stars as Larry Hubbard in the soon-to-be-released film The 
Guy. The plant stars as itself.

---------------------------------------------------

 Merce Cunningham himself dances with Megan Walker in the modem dance work Roadrunner to appear at Heinz Hall.Video comes to Skibo
By ADAM HANIN
ji Tartan Entertainment Editor
For the rest of this semester, Wednesdays 
1 will be music days in the grey matter; Rockworld has come to CMU. Rockworld is an4 hour-long music video show which is being 
brought to you every Wednesday from 10-4 
|j by AB Concerts. The show is syndicated to 
over 325 major college campuses with more 
than 3 million total viewers each week.I
 Every week, the program changes, but the 
format will always be the same. There will 
be videos by the top performers in nearly 
Hevery field of music, as w'ell as a contest each 
week. The best thing about Rockworld is 
that you can see nearly the entire show' by 
^dropping in at different times; when the 
Bprogram is over, it begins again.
This week, Rockworld will include 
videos by such artists as Paul McCartney, 
Adam Ant, Hall and Oates, Robert Plant, 
and Ozzy Osbourne. Stop by the grey matter 
and watch for a few minutes; let music make 
your day.
A Beatles milestone
The Beatles landed at New Yorks 
Kennedy Airport for their historic perform
ance on the Ed Sullivan Show. Beatlemania 
had officially begun, paving the way for 
much of the rest of the music of the 20th 
century.
It was 20 years ago today 
Sgt. Pepper taught the band to play 
Theyve been going in and out of style 
But theyre guaranteed to raise a smile
IForbes Gallery exhibit opens
Vv KEITH RECKER
S(mpecial to the Tartan
I Andrea Olsheskie, Valerie Brodar and 
Kristen Rockwell will show their work at 
he Forbes Gallery this week. Their show
I pens Tuesday, February 7, with an openng celebration from 7 to 9 p.m.
Olsheskies work deals with dreams and
Kightmares and has at times a surreal flavor, 
he themes of her pieces are intensely peronal, and her face and figure appear in 
nany of her collages. She hovers over herself 
'Vhile she sleeps or looks af a doppelganger 
mage of herself or seems to be staring out at 
lerself from the field of a collage. Olsheskie 
that much of her work has a narrative 
quality, that the material of a story, in dream 
>r nightmare form, is present in each piece.
In I Can Only Hear You, Sister, a con'truction of wood, paper and Venetian blind, 
w see, as the slats of the blind are turned 
3pen, a screaming girls face. Ehe eyes and 
he cavity of the mough are blacked out. The 
Jansition from the pure white of die blinds
0 eerie image is startling and makes the 
Jlece an object fit for rapt attention.
^ alerie Brodar has been increasingly 
nterested in incorporating throw-away 
objects into her weavings. Brodar feels that 
savings are too often precious objects, 
Hade with the finest materials and with the 
tmost care. They arent relevant to things
young people face right now. By using the 
colors and shapes of things such as lottery 
tickets, garbage, plastic, etc., Brodar hopes 
she might bring to her craft a more up to 
date sense of imagery.
In her weaving Belly to Belly and Hand 
to Back, Brodar uses sweatshirts, nylons, 
material from a slip and condoms (as well as 
their ripped wrappers) to create a statement 
about what people deal with today. The 
attention to color and texture, as well as the 
abandon with which the Jcondoms are 
placed, make the piece riotously funny, but 
also disturbing.
Kristen Rockwell, showing her work in 
stone and weaving, interests herself in the 
human fugure: her pieces in stone originate 
in the human form and her work in fiber, 
kimonos, are made to fit a human form. 
Rockwell pays a great deal of attention to 
color and execution and is concerned with 
purity and possibilities inherent in her 
chosen crafts. One of her kimonos is of 
hand-dyed cotton. Fhis kimono blends deli
cate lavenders and blues and is, as Rockwell 
intended, more a tapestry that something to 
be worn.
Their show will be at the Forbes Gallery 
until February 11. Gallery hours are: 
Wednesday-Friday, 10 to 6, and Saturday 11
to 5.
The Pittsburgh Dance Councils spring 
series, Modem Masters of Dance, will 
open at Heinz Hall on February 11 and 12 
with two performances by the Merce Cun
ningham Dance Company. The company 
will present a Cunningham Event on Sat
urday at 8 p.m., followed by the Sunday 2 
performance which will include three 
works from the repertory, Duets, 
Locale, and Roadrunners.
Merce Cunningham is perhaps one of the 
most influential and controversial choreo
graphers of this century. He began his pro
fessional dance career with the Martha 
Graham Company in 1939. Ms. Graham set 
many pieces on Cunningham, but her con
cept that dance must express inner emotions 
and her use of verbalism with dance promp
ted him to leave the company and to begin 
choreographing works of his own. Cun
ningham felt that movement has its own 
merit and that dance should be considered 
an independent art form which does not 
need the support of a storyline or music.
Cunningham set off in a van in the 1940s 
to tour the United States, performing at col
leges and museums, and often in such nontraditional performing spaces as 
gymnasiums and galleries. These presenta
tions outside the proscenium stage structure 
led to the development of the Cunningham 
Events. Presented without intermission, 
Events consist of complete dances, excerpts 
of dances from the repertory, and other new 
sequences arranged for the particular perfor
mance and place, to allow for not so much 
an evening of dances as the experience of 
dance.
Merce Cunninghams style rocked the 
dance world in the 1940s and 1950s, and is 
controversial to this day for his dance aes
thetic as well as for his use of unusual sound 
accompaniment. His long-time friend and
collaborator, renowned composer John 
Cage, has written much of the music for 
Cunninhams work. Cage, featured on New 
Years Day with Merce Cunningham in the 
PBS program Good Morning Mr. 
Orwell, and a group of musicians will pro
vide live music and sound effects for the 
troupes Pittsburgh performances.
Tickets for the Cunningham programs 
on February 11 and 12 range from $4 to $14 
and are available through the Pittsburgh 
Dance Council office, 600 Penn Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222, by calling the office 
355-0330, or the Heinz Hall Box Office or 
Ticket Charge (392-4900). Mastercard and 
Visa accepted.
The next presentation on the Pittsburgh 
Dance Councils Modem Masters series at 
Heinz Hall will be the Alvin Ailey Ameri
can Dance Theater for two performances, 
March 20 and 21, and the Alwin Nikolais 
Dance Theatre in one performance only on 
April 30. Subscriptions for all three perfor
mances are on sale for as little as $13.50 
through the Dance Council office.
Free concert
David Stock will conduct the Pittsburgh 
New Music Ensemble in a free concert on 
Tuesday, Feb. 7, 8:30 p.m. in the Frick Fine 
Arts Auditorium, Oakland. Lynne Webber, 
soprano, will be the guest soloist in the pro
gram featuring works by Buell, Butch, 
Gibbs, Jurcic, Vali, and Lovendusky.
This is the first of two new music concerts 
to be presented by the University of Pitts
burgh Department of Music and the Music 
Performance Trust Fund. The second con
cert is planned for March.
For more information, contact the Pitt 
Music Department at 624-4126.
WRCT88.3 FM
Featured Programming: 
Every Sunday at 6:00 p.m.-
OMNI MAGAZINE 
College Concert hour
PLUS
Live Coverage of 
TARTAN BASKETBALL 
and
CMU HOCKEY
Tune in for a veritable plethora of musical variations 
including Jazz, Rock, Funk, New Wave, Experimental 
and Electronic music with Pittsburghs most ecletic and 
effervescent disc jockeys.
February 7, 1984The TartanPage 13
Dance "event" to show

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The Tartan February 7, 1984
Three ballets 
for February
Patricia Wilde, artistic director of the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre, has announced a 
bright February program of three ballets.
PBTs February program features three 
stylistically different ballets. La Ventana 
was created by the great 19th century' Danish 
choreographer August Boumonville. The 
PBTs La Ventana is a unique legacy. It was 
staged for the company in 1980 by one of the 
four heirs to the great Boumonville tradi
tion at the Royal Danish Ballet, associate 
director Kirsten Ralov. PBT is proud towelcome Fredbjorn Bjomsson, former princi
pal dancer and now principal mime for the 
Royal Danish Ballet (and Ralovs husband), 
to put the finishing touches on PBTs La 
Ventana.
Also on the upcoming program is the 
lovely choreographed ballet Serenade, set to 
lush music by Tchaikovsky and choreo
graphed by the great George Balanchine. 
Post Gazettes Jane Vranish called PBTs 
Serenade a well-done treasure . .. based on 
the poetry of performance, Serenade has a
timeless artistry in the windswept pat
terns. .
A dramatic modem ballet, filled with 
anguish and troubled yearning, will com
plete Februarys program. Yerma, by prominent Israeli choreographer Domy 
Reiter-Soffer, artistic director/advisor to the 
Irish National Ballet, will return to Heinz 
Hall stage by popular demand. The Post 
Gazette called Yerma a program to be 
savored again and again, reaping new 
delights with each viewing. Yerma, based 
on the passionate poetry of Garcia Lorca, 
was given to the company by Reiter-Soffer 
last season. Reiter-Soffers works are becom
ing a unique and important part of PBTs 
repertoire.
MCMLXXIV Wait Disney Productions
In Walt Disneys upcoming large-scale fantasy adventure film, Oz, Fairuzo Balk plays 
Dorothy, the role made famous by the late Judy Garland.
New Oz film
Richard Berger, president of Walt Dtsn 
Pictures, and producers Gary Kurtz and 
Paul Maslansky have announced that 
nine-vear-old Vancouver schoolgirl has 
been chosen to play the pivotal role 0f 
Dorothy in Walt Disney Pictures large-scaie 
fantasy/adventure Oz.
Fairuza Balk, an American-bom Cana 
dian immigrant, beat out hundreds of app|j. 
cants for the starring role of Dorothy, the 
Kansas farm girl played by Judy Garland in 
the 1939 film classic, The Wizard of 0;
Oz, based on Ozma of Oz and Land of O' 
by L. Frank Baum, introduces a new cast of 
imaginative characters as Dorothy returns to 
Oz for further adventures. The motion pic. 
ture begins principal photography at 
Elstree Studios near London on February
20.
The search for Dorothy began last August 
with an open call for girls aged 9 to 12 
Auditions were held in six American and 
two Canadian cities. In November, twelve 
finalists were tested at the Disney Studios in 
California from which two were flown to 
London this month for complete studio 
tests.
The director of Oz is Walter Murch,who 
co-wrote the screenplay with Gill Dennis. 
Murch won an Oscar for his work in sound 
design, montage and recording for Apoca
lypse Now. He won three additional 
Academy Award nominations for film edit
ing or overseeing the sound for such movies 
as THX 1138, The Godfather, American 
Graffiti, The Godfather, Part II, The Con
versation, and Julia.
The program of three ballets, La Ven
tana, Serenade, and Yerma, will be offered 
for three performances only at Heinz Hall, 
February 24 and 25 at 8 p.m. and February' 
26 at 1 p.m. For ticket information, call 
281-0360.
Artists visit
CMUs art department sponsor five residencies
Coming (Soon...
The
Find Your Face 
Picture Place!
uds
universitydiningservice
The art department at Camegie-Mellon 
University, in cooperation with the Pennsyl
vania Council on the Arts, will sponsor an 
artist-in-residence program from Feb. 5 to 
March 17 at the university.
Five prominent artists in clay, metal, 
glass, fiber and wood will each spend a week 
at CMU working in the universitys facili
ties. Students and the public may observe the 
artists at work. Each artist will also deliver a 
lecture during the residency.
rhe artists and dates are: Albert Paley, 
metal, Feb. 5-11; Howard-Yana Shapiro, 
clay, Feb. 12-18; Nance OBanion, paperfiber, Feb. 19-25; Wendy Maruyama, wood, 
March 4-10; and Dale Chihuly, glass, March 
11-17.
Paley, professor at New York State Uni
versity at Brockport, is represented in the 
collections of the Metropolitan Museum of 
.Ait; the Renwich Gallery, Smithsonian 
Insitution; and the Cooper Hewitt 
Museum. His architectural commissions 
indude gates for the New York State Senate 
Chambers at Albany, and exterior sculpture 
for the Strong Museum at Rochester and 
portal gates for the Renwick Gallery.
Paley was the subject of two films, ABCs 
Handmade in America  Interview with 
Albert Paley and NBCs Behind the Fen
ce/Albert Paley Metalworker. He also was 
included in the Canadian Broadcasting Co. 
film Hand and Eye: Decorative Arts and 
Fine Craftmanship.
Shapiro, from the School of the Art Insti
tute of Chicago, has taught and lectured 
extensively on the subjects of ceramics, 
sculpture and aesthetics both in the U.S. and 
abroad. His teaching experience has 
included a stint with the U.S. Department of 
Health, Education and Welfare working in 
migrant labor camps in an effort to move 
migrants into cottage industries. He also 
received a Fulbright in aesthetics and 
ceramic design for work at the State Institute 
of Arts, Europe, in Rome.
Shapiro has worked as a journeyman car
penter, an organizer for the National Share 
croppers Fund, a line foreman at U.S. Steel 
in Gary, Ind., a professional motorode 
rider, a research director in Bangladesh, an 
English teacher in Mexico and a farmer. He 
is chairman of the editorial board for T'm 
New Art Examiner.
OBanion, who works in paper and fiber 
is an associate professor at California Col! 
lege of Arts and Crafts in Oakland, Califor 
nia. She is the author of Metamorphosisof 
the Image Through the Reconstruction oi| 
Silkscreen Printed Textiles and Fite 
finder: Guide to Bay Area Sources wiiii] 
Cindy Sagen.
Maruyama, who works in wood, is 
instructor at the Appalachian Center fo 
Crafts in Smithville, Tenn. She has receive: 
awards from the Tennessee Arts Comi 
sion and the National Endowment for tl* 
Arts and has won the Roland E. Vollntfj 
Award for Design Excellence. She has w 
in the Hunter Museum of Art in Chatta 
and itr many private collections.
Chihuly, a glass worker, splits his tii 
between the Rhode Island School of Dfs*! 
and the Pilchucj< Glass Center in Washii 
ton, D.C., which he founded. A native 
Tacoma, Wash., Chihuly is represented 
the collections of the Museum of Conti 
porary Crafts, New York; philadelpl 
Museum of Art; Coming Museum of G* 
Museum of Modem Art, New York; Fra* 
enau Museum, Germany; Museum Bfl 
rive, Switzerland; and the Victoria 
Albert Museum, London.
Carol Kumata, metalworker and assi*1 
professor at CMU, and Kathleen Mul 
glassworker and associate professor, 
coordinating the program.
Students and the public may obsenf
artists at work from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
day to Friday, during their visits. For iflf j 
mation, contact the CMU art deparimelll| 
578-2409.

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1984The TartanPage 15
It's Grammy 
Awards time
continued from page 11
music is overpowering, and is what deserves 
her to win the Grammy.
One of the most important awards this 
year will be the Best New Song Award, 
which goes to the songwriter. This year, all 
of the songs nominated are performed by 
their writers, which has not often occurred 
in the past. In fact, except for Billie Jean', 
all of the Best New' Song nominees are also 
Record of the Year nominees. It is this 
change, however, that will determine the 
winner; Michael Jacksons Billie Jean 
should have received the Record of the Year 
Grammy, but it cant. It will win the Best 
New Song Grammy. The story is real, as are 
Jacksons emotions in both the lyrics and 
the performance, and the music is topnotch.
1983 was a great year for the music indus
try. Record sales drastically increased, and 
live performances drew7 record crowds. The 
26th Annual Grammy Awards will cap-off 
this monumental year in music; watch them 
on February7 28.
1983 Universal City Studios, Inc. 
James Stewart and Kim Novak star in the long-awaited rerelea.se of the Alfred Hitchcock classic Vertigo.
Cold Spring Harbor Billy Joel's latest and best album
continued from page 12
and make money on old songs album. 
Although Im sure the motives are the same, 
the style is different enough to make the 
album worth buying. You see, some of 
Joels songs sound best in large arenas with 
thousands of screaming fans  Captain 
Jack and Miami 2017" gain a new excite
ment and power from the crowd. Other 
songs sound better in an intimate setting, 
like a night club. Songs like Shes Got a 
Way gain a relaxed smoothness form play
ing to a small audience. This album also 
helped to fill a long dry spell between Glass 
Houses and Nylon Curtain.
Nylon Curtain met with mixed reviews, 
mostly from those who had really enjoyed 
the previous two studio albums. The old 
I Billy Joel was starting to resurface. Whether 
| because of a recent divorce, or maybe just the 
i thought that he had set up a big enough 
base of fans to try getting away from the 
commercialized drivel. He is not completely 
cured in this album, but the confidence 
seems to be back and he seems to be on the 
mend. Joel has always had the greatest 
respect for The Beatles, and Nylon Curtain 
j is where he pays it, with many songs reminI iscent of a Beades style. In fact, on his last 
I tour, he used Beatles tunes to set the mood 
I instead of a warm-up band. It takes guts to 
I come on after The Beatles.
Joels latest, An Innocent Man, is a good,
new, fresh, album, showing that he can still 
write like he did when he was hungry. It is 
also the best 50s tribute of 1983. But the 
songs are not rehashes, theyre new material, 
with a kind of magical, optimistic feeling 
about them. Perhaps a rumored relation
ship with a New York model has added 
some boost to his stride and inspired the fun. 
A nice touch is the song Keeping the 
Faith, where Joel explains his ... reasons 
for the whole revival. . Perhaps it is this 
new confidence that has inspired the rerelease of Cold Spring Harbor, still one of 
Joels best.
As I stated earlier, Cold Spring Harbor 
should have been the start of Joels rocket 
trip to the charts. Alas, a bungle on the part 
of an engineer left Joel sounding much 
more like Alvin, of chipmunk fame. Ive 
heard the original, and its not surprising 
that it took three more albums before he 
became a household name. However, and 
much to the delight of those of us B.J. fanat
ics in the know, this first masterpiece has 
been remastered so that he sounds normal, 
and has been re-released. As with his best 
other work, Joel is at top form on Cold 
Spring Harbor because he is dealing with 
himself. Here he deals with his overwhelm
ing love for a woman in Shes Got a Way, 
and You Can Make Me Free. Then the 
pain of rejection and Joss in Everybody 
Loves You Now, Why Judy Why, Falling of the Rain, Turn Around, and 
You Look So Good to Me. In Tomor
row is Today, he is trying to find reason to 
go on, and Got to Begin Again is his 
resolve that with or without her, life is in fact 
moving along and its time to get back on 
with living.
Joel is primarily a lyricist. It is his percep
tion and sensitivity that makes his songs 
interesting, thought provoking, gripping, 
and often, fun. Its not likely hell ever be 
confused with the greatest instrumentalists
of history, however, he does have pretty fair 
control of a keyboard, and his backup bands 
are very good. His current band, which is the 
band he tours with and who started with 
him on album with The Stranger, is wond
erfully energetic, and a not half bad group of 
musicians either. It is Joels power with 
words that is so refreshing, however, and 
thats one of the best reasons to collect his 
albums. This is where Cold Spring Harbor 
excels, and is why, but for a nasty turn of 
fate, this album should have been the igni
tion point for a skyrocketing career.
Chamber music at Chatham College
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music Project 
will present the fifth in a series of eight 
concerts on Tuesday, February 7 and Wed
nesday, February 8, both at 8:00 p.m., in 
Laughlin Music Center at Chatham Col
lege. Admission is free.
The program will include the Sonata in 
D major for violin and piano by Beethoven; 
Five Preludes for guitar by Villa-Lobos; 
Benjamin Lees Three Variables for 
winds, French horn and piano and the
Quintet in C major for strings by Schubert.
Musicians for this program will be Cha
rles Hardwick, Dmitri Levin and Brian Reagin, violin; Isaias Zelkowicz, viola; Michael 
Lipman and Anne Martindale Williams, 
cello; Harold Smoliar, oboe; J. William 
King, clarinet; Mark Pancerev, bassoon; 
Janice Kraynok, French horn; Maria 
Caruso, piano and Irvin Kauffman, guitar.
For further information please call 682- 
1746 or 241-4243.
Mr. Lawrence portrays brutality
continued from page 12
decisive soldier's soldier of immense physiIcal and moral courage. David Bowie plays 
jthis part with a great deal of intensity, and 
I not a trace of decadence. His acting marks a 
jgreat improvement over his earlier perforjmance as the alien in Nicholas Roegs The 
Wan Who Fell to Earth. Celliers, it turns 
Iut, is a man whose inability to accept weakjness led him to betray his fragile younger 
I rother. Trying to escape his inner demons, 
I e embraces the war.
Celliers represents the ethos of Bridge 
\_Uer t^le River Kwai, while Lawrence 
represents that of The Grande Illusion. 
I ^awrence s good will leads Hara 
P ayed by Takeshi), the second in corn
ed, to concoct a story that saves Law
rence from execution, Celliers represents 
Iniore of a threat, and though Yonoi respects 
I ^KTS as a peer, he cannot save him. Of the 
I ur principals, only Lawrence survives the
war and its aftermath.
It is a good thing that this film had a 
Japanese director, because the behavior of 
the captors is portrayed as being so brutal 
that, originating in any other country, it 
would appear as a vicious slander (however 
accurate). While not presenting the gore of a 
run-of-the-mill American horror movie, the 
beatings and scenes of seppuku are relent
less. Oshimas unflinching presentation 
toughens a story that could easily have been 
just another sentimental plea for under
standing. By showing men at war, in one 
of the most extreme situations people ever 
find themselves, this movie shows just how 
great the gap between cultures can be.
Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence, will be 
playing at the Pittsburgh Playhouse on Friday, 
Feb. 10 at 7:30, 9:40, and 11:50.
AreYbu Good Enough ToJoinTheBest InTheNuclearField?
The Navy operates the most advanced nuclear equipment in the world. 
Including more than half the nuclear reactors in 
America. The men who maintain and operate those 
reactors have to he the best. That's why officers 
in the Nuclear Navy get the most extensive and 
sophisticated training in the world.
College juniors and seniors who qualify 
for the program can earn over $900 a 
month while still in school.
After graduation, as a Navy officer, 
you receive a year of graduate level v
training unavailable anywhere else at ^
any price. You become a highly ^ineo 
member of an elite group with vital re- 
sponsibilities and growing career potential
To qualify, you must be a U.S. citizen between 19 and 27 years of age. 
working toward or have earned a bachelor's or master's degree. You must 
also have completed a minimum of one year each of calculus and calculusbased physics with a "B" average or better.
You can submit an application as soon as you've completed your sophomore 
year in college. If you think you're good enough to join the best in the nuclear 
field, find out. Call the Naval Management Programs Office for full information.
Toll-Free 1-800-242-3736 
On Campus February 10
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast

---------------------------------------------------

On sale now!
Feb 7th-9th 
T ues-Thurs,
10-5:00
Skibo, Grey Matter
funded by Student Activities

---------------------------------------------------

By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
Its over. The Tartan basketball team 
cored two victories this week, over Thiel 
land Case Western, to end their eleven game
Bosing streak.
| In defeating Thiel Wednesday night, 78- 
71t CMU won its first game of the Presi
dent's Athletic Conference season. It was 
their first victory since defeating Rochester, 
j 34-79, in the Rochester Tip-Off tournament 
gvjovember 27, 1983. After losing all of their 
December and January games, February has 
thus far been a good month. The Tartans 
also have pulled out of last place, and could 
pass Bethany with a win in West Virginia 
j tomorrow night.
f Recent improvement seems to go back to 
I the insertion of Dwayne Waite and Ray BrenSnan into the starting lineup. The Tartans 
liave shot over 50 percent in their last three 
I Tames, including a season-high 59 percent 
against Thiel. Greg Gabriel seems to be tak
ing more of a leadership role, and also avI raged 21 points in the two victories this 
liveek, on 70 percent shooting (21-30), an 
limazing statistic considering most of 
I Gabriels shots are from beyond 18 feet 
I Another key has been the return erf Rob
 Kukowski to the top scorers list. Kukowski, 
liespite playing with an injured hand, 
cored 17 against Thiel and 14 against Case. 
I With Pete Bennett gone, Kukowski has to 
I core consistently for the Tartans to win.
I Against Thiel, all five CMU starters scored 
In double figures, led by Gabriels 18 points. I Waite pulled down 12 rebounds and scored 
pl 3 points. Richard Neff hit double figures for
I he second straight game, with 13 points, and 
Brennan added twelve. The Tartans shot 71 
cent from the foul line, connecting on 20 
-8, led by Kukowskis 9 erf 12. They also 
itrolled Thiel forward Vic Harp, who had 
leading the PAC in scoring and 
Bunding. Harp had 16 points and 8
rebounds. Tom Bingham led the Tomcats 
with 20 points.
It was Saturdays game against Case that 
showed the Tartans true improvement. Case 
had defeated CMU, 86-62, on January 14 at 
Cleveland. But it would be a different story at 
Skibo Gym.
The game started off in spurts. CMU took 
a 6-2 lead, only to watch Case score ten 
straight to go up 12-6. CMU then scored 
eight of the next ten points to tie at 14. Case 
scored the next five, for a 19-14 lead. Then 
came the turning point of the game.
Leading 21-20, Case wanted to halt the 
Tartans mounting momentum and called a 
time out. After the time out, Joe Kemer and 
Todd Johnsson came down and held the ball. 
Case went into its spread offense in order to 
make CMU play man-to-man defense.
Tartan coach Larry Anderson played it 
smart He had guards Gabriel and Herb Sendek pressure the ball, while the front line of 
George Debski, Scott Saxton and Kukowski 
stayed back in the zone. While the crowd 
screamed, Play real basketball, Gabriel 
and Sendek husded all over the court The 
CMU strategy finally worked. Guard Fred 
DiSanto threw a cross-court pass that was 
batted down by Debski and grabbed by 
Gabriel. Saxton scored his only points of the 
game on a fast break layup, and the Tartans 
grabbed the crowd, the momentum, and the 
lead. Case held the ball three-and-a-half min
utes and came up with nothing. CMU went 
on to take a 32-23 lead, led by Gabriels 7-for8 shooting.
Case scored the first eight points of the 
second half, and it looked as if the Tartans 
were folding. Anderson called a time out 
and asked the players, What does it take for 
you guys to wake up? CMU then woke up. 
With nine minutes remaining, the Tartans 
had regained a nine point lead.
Case cut the lead to five with 1:55 remain
ing, as guard Rich Weidrick seemingly could
I debski shoots over
Dwayne Waite skies for a rebound over Case
not miss from the outside. Weidrick finished 
with 21 points. The Tartans held Spartan 
leading scorer Johnsson to just eight points 
on four of 13 shooting.
It was then that Case made a run for the 
win. The Spartans scored six unanswered 
points, including a three-point play by Tom 
Liptadc (15 points, eight rebounds), to take a 
one point lead with 43 seconds remaining. 
CMU came down the floor, and there wasnt
Reserves Tom Liptack.
much doubt who would get the ball. Gabriel 
would take one more shot. Gabriel hit a 
22-foot jumper with 29 seconds left to put the 
Tartans ahead 63-62.
Johnsson missed a jumper, and Waite was 
immediately fouled. Waite missed the foul 
shot, but Weidrick missed from 28 feet with 
four seconds remaining, and the Tartans had 
raised their record to 4-11 overall and 2-6 in 
the PAC.
Bill Vaughan for two of his eight pointe.
Photo by Mike Kelley
CMU 78Thiel 71
CMU (78)FGFTTPTHIEL (71)FGFTTP
Kukowski4-109-1217Miale1-50-02
Waite5-83-513Harp4-108-916
Neff6-101-213Callihan, T.1-23-45
Gabriel9-130-118Vanderveen4-148-816
Brennan4-74-412Bingham10-120-120
Sendek1-13-45Pilipovich3-70-06
Debski0-00-00Callihan, J.0-10-00
Ny strom0-10-00
Terlizzi0-12-22
Punhals0-10-00
Batt0-00-00
Rupert0-00-00
Totals29-4920-28 78Totals25-5721-2371
FG% CMU .591Thiel .438. Rebounds-CMU 33 (Waite 12), Thiel 29 (Vanderveen 5).
Assists  CMU 6 (Gabriel 3), Thiel 0. Turnovers  CMU 6, Thiel 6.
Halfume: CMU 45-32
CMU 63Case Western 62
CASE (62)FGFTTPCMU(B)FGFTTP
kernel1-20-22Kukowski4-116-714
Johnsson4-130-08Waite2-52-56
Liptack6-93-415Neff1-20-02
Weidrick10-161-121Gabriel12-170-124
Vaughan3-50-06Brennan3-5CM)6
DiSanto4-70-08Debski4-50-08
Nicholson1-10-02Sendek0-11-2I
Owens0-00-00Saxton1-30-02
McEldowney0-20-00
Totals29-554-762Totals27-499-1563
FG% CMU .551,Case .517. Rebounds -- CMU 28 (Kukowski, Debski. 7 each), Case 29
(Liptack 8). Assists CMU 16 (Gabriel 5), Case 4 (Kernel 2). Turnovers  CMU 11,Case
i jHalftime: CMU 32-23
ITech breaks eleven game losinq streak

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanFebruary 7, 1984
CMU avenges early season loss, defeats PSU 8-3
By JOHN JOI RDAIN
Special to The Tartan
The CMU Ice Tartans upped their overall 
record to 10 and 2 with a pair of wins over 
Penn State-McKeesport and Duquesne in 
last weeks hockey action.
CMU avenged their lone first-half loss at 
the hands of PSU by whipping the Lions 
8-3. Things looked bleak for the Tartans at 
first with PSU jumping to a 2-0 lead on a 
pair of goals by Jon Bek. But CMU cranked 
up and scored 5 unanswered goals on the 
way to the 8-3 victory. Tim Carlin opened 
the scoring for CMU on a good slapshot 
with assists coming from Dave Aulberg and 
Kevin Scully on the power play situation. 
CMUs next two goals were scored by 
Donny Heyse, a pair of beautiful plays, with 
assists going to Scully on both goals. The 
five goal run was completed with goals by 
Bob Koch (assists to Tim Kenny and Mike 
Halloran) and Tim Kenny (assists to Eric 
Spiey and Rob Katz).
PSU answered weakly with an unassisted 
3rd period goal by Mike Wood, but the Tar
tans came right back 30 seconds later with a 
goal by Scully on a beautiful feed from 
Donny Heyse and Ted Dawson. CMU 
rounded out the scoring on a pair of goals. 
Hie first was a great move by Steve Kruse 
who flipped the puck past the fallen goaltender, and the next goal came from Bob 
Koch, his second of the game with the assist 
going to Halloran.
This game was a fine display of hockey 
ability, marred only by a play by PSU in the 
closing minutes, resulting in the loss of 
Kevin Scully to a one-game suspension for 
what was dubiously ruled a fight by the 
officials. Regardless, the Ice Tartans simply 
overwhelmed the Lions with superior abil
ity and coaching, and took the victory home.
One of the hockey events of the year took 
place in front of a crowd of faithful fans at 
the Lakeviewr Ice Palace when the CMU 
Tartans met the Duquesne Dukes in what 
was most likely a preview of an upcoming 
playoff match-up.
A tight, tough hockey game ended with 
CMU on the upper end of a 5-3 score. Stan
douts included Eric Sprey, (2 goals, 2 assists) 
Rob Katz and Ted Dawson (1 goal, 1 assist 
each).
CMU opened the scoring with a first 
period goal by Sprey on a nice feed from 
Rob Katz and Tim Carlin. The Dukes ans
wered midway through the second period 
on a power play goal by Joe Barbara, but 
CMU came right back less than a minute 
later on a shorthanded, breakaway goal by 
Sprey to go up 2-1. CMU then scored two 
unanswered goals, the first by Katz (from 
Bill Heyse and Sprey) and the second by Ted 
Dawson on a beautiful slapshot, with assists 
going to Andy Andrejko and Bob Koch. 
CMU and Duquesne then traded power 
play goals, Duquesnes came from Rich 
Rupp (assists to Bemer and Nickel) and 
CMUs came from Tim Kenny on another 
nice slapshot (assists to Sprey and Dawson). 
Duquesne finished out the scoring with an 
unassisted goal by Barbara with 30 seconds 
left.
CMU truly played together as a team for 
probably the first time this year, and showed 
flashes of what they can really do. Duquesne 
dominated stretches of the game, but the Ice 
Tartans hung in there and showed that they 
were the better team. Goal tender Bob Kozakowski was a big part of that better, hav
ing an excellent game, stopping 42 shots 
and frustrating the Dukes dme and again. 
Hockey is a team sport, and the Tartans 
showed that by out playing and outclassing 
the seemingly lackluster Dukes.
HOUSING NOTICE
The Room Reservation process for the 
1984-1985 academic year will be held 
during March 1984.
All current residents who wish to take 
part in the Room Draw process must 
pay a $100 Housing Deposit directly 
to the Cashiers Office between Febru
ary 1 st and February 23, 1984
Residents must show a deposit receipt 
to sign for a room next year.
Ted Dawson (4) and Andy Andrejko rush up ice.Photo by Steve Winawer
NHL's playoff format not hurting regular season play
By Lesley Brunker
Despite controversy about the current 
NHL playoff format, the crying about no 
reward for point leadership and too many 
teams making the playoffs, this promises to 
. ^ be one of the most exciting 
home stretch runs in recent
^ memory. Heres a division-by^ division rundown of things to
watch.
Patrick Division: Look out. This shapes 
up as the bloodiest battle in the league. As of 
February 3rd, five points separated first and 
fourth place, and two points separated first 
from third. Dont tell these teams first place 
means nothing. They all want it, and best of 
all, they despise one another enough to try to 
get it.
Washington is a divisional darkhorse, 
mainly because they have the best goal tend
ing. After a brief stint in the minors toward 
the end of January, Pat Riggin has come 
back with three wins, two of them shutouts. 
A1 Jensen has the best goals-against average 
in the league. Most importandy, the Capit
als have never finished higher than third 
and have a lot to prove both to themselves 
and to their fans.
Philadelphia should be interesting to 
watch, predominantly because they have 
been so streaky all season. They have two 
young goal tenders who have traded the 
number one spot all season. And though 
their offense has come a long way, theyre 
still being hurt by loud-mouths and goons, 
parucularly Glen Cochrane and the Sutters, 
taking unnecessary penalties. But when they 
want to, the Flyers can be an outstanding 
hockey team; and they do as well against the 
Islanders as anyone.
Its hard to find a fault in the Islanders. 
They have well-balanced scoring power. 
They have Ken Morrow and Denis Potvin, 
two of the biggest, toughest defensemen in
* the league. They have the playoff goalie, 
Billy Smith, and two more than adequate 
backups in Rollie Melanson and Kelley 
Hrudy. They are, right now, the best team in 
hockey. Period.
The Rangers are indeed having an excel
lent season. A relatively starless team, they 
have depth at every position and a reliable 
netminder in Glen Hanlon. Captain Barry 
Beck and All-Star MVP Don Maloney are 
the heart of the team, and the life blood is 
provided by a bunch of pesky litde Euro
pean imports who give opponents fits. 
However, they are a largely unproven team,
and even more prone to good and bad 
streches than Philadelphia.
Look for the finish, first to fourth: Island
ers, Flyers, Capitals, Rangers.
Adams Division: The playoff teams are 
once again set; the battle will be for overall 
point leadership.
Boston, like the Islanders, is a team with 
few flaws. They are especially strong on 
defense and have the best goal tending duo 
in Pete Peeters and Doug Keans. The offense 
is not outstanding, but does an adequate 
job. Their best point is they work hard, with 
everyone playing disciplined defense and 
offense.
Scotty Bow man has done a superb job in 
shaping Buffalo. A mixture of veterans and 
fresh young faces, this is perhaps the best 
balanced team in the league. Bob Sauve is 
reliable if unspectacular in goal, and should 
hold up well should 18-year-old rookie 
Tom Barrasso(who was named January 
Rookie of the Month for a 5-0-1 record and
1.64 goals-against average) falter.
Norris Division: We move to the bottom 
of the division for this one. The fight is 
between Toronto and Detroit for the final 
playoff spot. Toronto always used to totter, 
on the brink of greatness, the proverbial one 
player away from the Stanley Cup. Not any 
more. They are the second worst defensive 
team in the league. All but one of their 
defensemen are on the wrong side of the 
plus/minus ratings. Despite two above aver
age performers in Mike Palmateer and Rick 
St. Croix, they are not getting goaltending. 
And they have atrocious and detrimental 
problems with the press.
Detroit is going up. They are truly 
rebuilding, picking up veterans Ron 
Duguay and Rick MacLeish and goalie 
Eddie Mio. Steve Yzerman is clearly the 
future of the team and a top candidate for 
Rookie of the Year honors. Though the 
team goes through periods of scatterbrained 
play, they can work cohesively.
Pick Detroit for the final playoff spot.
Smythe Division: Another batde for the last 
playoff spot, and there really isnt much to 
say. The dubious prize is a series with the 
Edmonton Oilers. Nine points separate 
second and last place, and frankly, its all 
academic: none of the teams stands a chance 
against Edmonton.
But the rest erf the division really isnt all 
that bad, particularly Calgary and 
continued on pogo20

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1984The TartanPage 19
Nomen defeat Bethany^ for second^ win
MU defense succeeds after Pennwood West losses to Thiel and W&J
MARGARET WISMER
ion Staffwriter
week started like so many others for
 womens basketball team as they gave up 
ir tenth and eleventh in a row against 
,iel and Washington and Jefferson. Dissted but not discouraged, their experience 
d skill started to manifest itself Monday 
rht at Thiel.
playing a hard driving game with much 
)re control, they still had problems with 
novers, totalling 29. Their pressure 
ense made 11 steals and forced 20 tumovon Thiel. Guard Nancy Dilulio played a 
High offensive game as she racked up 19 of
I Tartans 53 points to be high scorer while 
fctain Nancy Bums hit from the outside to
 eight points. Michelle Schlegel pulled 
Hwn ten rebounds and connected with six
 her inside attempts for 16 points. 
Having practiced foul shots to numbness
Tartans exhibited inspiring progress 
m the free throw line. They made more 
in 50 percent of their attempts. In short, 
final numbers were comparable to 
iels in field goal percentage, steals, and free 
ows. Thiels dominadng the game 77-53 
tends from their ability to hang on to the
11 and shoot, a basic point Coach Kathy 
xzkowski brings out when she emphass control. Paczkowski believes, on the 
liole, they played better Monday night, 
beiter than they had any time since their first 
Hid up to then only win against Grove City. 
H Facing key rival W&J Wednesday night, 
He Tartans again had a strong defense but 
Huldnt put together enough offense to 
;jf|)ld off a defeat.
CAA Basketball. . .
The Tartans started their third conference 
match looking like they had learned from 
their previous mistakes. For awhile in the 
first half they played a fast breaking, momen
tum building game to maintain a close and 
threatening score. They lost that drive, how
ever, along with Bums, who was taken out 
with a knee injury. By the second half, W&J 
had run off w ith it and controlled the rest of 
the game.
Not until Friday night did the team gain 
control, keep it and preserve the momentum 
they had let slip by before. Jumping ahead 
early on, CMU dominated against Bethany 
in another Pennwood West conference 
match. Everything started to click right for 
the Tartans as they executed their offensive 
plays in a well-practiced style. With both 
forwards and guards cutting as expected, 
they were less prone to throw the ball away 
and whittled down their total turnovers to 
17.
Early on, the Tartans led 27-12 but fell 
into trouble after halfume. Outscored by 
Bethany 19-3 at one point, CMU held on to 
defeat them 48-45. According to Paczkowski, 
they kept their patience (their cool) and 
regained control to bring the game down to 
the last tense minutes.
Using the 30-second shot clock well, the 
Tartans took time to fully execute their 
planned offensive plays. Unlike previous 
games, the scoring didnt rely on one person 
who happened to have a good day. The final 
stats told the story of a better overall game 
for everyone, with the points distributed 
more evenly and the assists more prevalent. 
Point guard Laurie Arendas played a key
Photo by Bob Fishel
Laurie Arendas readies herself to jump against W&J last Wednesday.
role in maintaining control and flabberdidnt have to depend on any one player
gasted Bethanys defense with fastbreaks and because everyone did well, including encoubaseline jumpers. Paczkowski felt they raging performances from the substitutes.
IT in trouble after NCAA convention in Dallas
By Christopher D. Lewis
CAA basketball is in a state of transiLast year was what the NCAA called 
le experiment. Three-point plays and 
>t clocks showed up in conferences all 
over America last season, 
jpr This year, things have relaxed 
a bit. The three-point field goal 
exists in only one conference 
year. A 45-second shot clock is in abunice, but really doesnt change the game 
ch. Dean Smith has proven he has a great
 with or without the four-comer 
nse.
t the recent NCAA Convention in DalTexas, two important rules were voted 
>n. The first was an academic limit 
sed on athletes of all NCAA sanctioned
sports. The limit was rejected, limits are left 
in the schools hands. Once again, big school 
athletics defeats academics. This is not the 
case in Division III, especially here at CMU. 
Case in point: Pete Bennett. Bennett was 
leading the Tartans in scoring, but academ
ics came first, and when1 Bennetts grades 
began to suffer, he quit the team.
The second rule was to expand the NCAA 
tournament to 64 teams, an expansion that 
does three things. Nine more teams will 
now play in this prestigious tournament. 
This cancels the first-round byes that the 
first sixteen seeds had received. But this 
expansion, to take place in the 1985 season, 
marks the fourth straight year in which the 
field has grown. This is putting a tremend
ous stress on basketballs other toumament, the National Invitational 
Tournament. The NIT takes the 32 best 
teams after the NCAA takes its choice. This 
tournament is a national tradition, but it 
doesnt have much left with the NCAA 
going to 64 teams, which means, theoretically, 
that the NIT gets 65-96. The ninety-sixth 
best team in the nation should not have a 
chance to win a national tournament.
As for this season, it looks as if North 
Carolina is the team at the top of the ladder, 
with DePaul about one step down. DePaul 
has the emotional advantage  they want to 
win for coach Ray Meyer. The 70 year-old 
Meyer is in his last season, and he is loved by 
all who know him. This DePaul team seems 
to win games they have no chance to win, 
such as their overtime win over St. Johns
this past weekend.
Kentucky is tough, but the pick here to 
win it all is Georgetow n. Patrick Ewing and 
a cast of soon-to-be stars is playing tough in 
the Big East Conference, and they have the 
playoff experience to take them to the 
championship.
But this is not a year of dominating teams. 
During this regular season, it seems than 
any team can beat any other team, except for 
North Carolina. This balance could make 
for a very interesting stretch run in NCAA 
basketball.
Christopher D. Lewis is a freshman in 
Professional Writing and is The Tartans 
sports editor.
itramural report: Quinn 
ets all-time speed record
SEAN QUINN 
ia" Staffwriter
^tei practicing for nearly one-and-a-half 
testers, I finally think I did it, right here! 
counts, so get a stopwatch because 
Ull) the fastest IM report in history.
Ready! Set! Go!
Basketball games scheduled for February
11 are rescheduled due to a fencing match, 
check the schedules. Table tennis and call 
pool rosters are due Thursday, February' 9th. 
Wow! 5.7 seconds! Wait! I can do it faster...
QUALITY TYPING
heses, resumes and personalized cover
otters.
*ne quickly at reasonable rates.
M. J. Martz Typing 
and
Professional Service
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Free Pregnancy Testing
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
r
I 
I

I 
I 
I


I 
I
a a
I
Lone coupon per ordersave $i.oooff the regular price of a Gyro and Drink with this coupon atNI KO'S wm
424 Semple Street 
Take out & Deliveries - 6Q1-8608 682 -8608
Expires on February 29, 1983 
w not good with delivery or any other special offer   ,

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanFebruary 7, 1984
strong
Meckley hz 
last year, but
distance corps will be the CMU strong suit when the track season opens in March,
Tartans face tough track competition
The
Brunker: playoff races getting closer
continued from page 18
Vancouver.
When they first moved north from 
Atlanta, the Flames were synonomous with 
the word big. Theyve traded sheer size for 
strength and leadership, especially in Lanny 
McDonald, Doug Risebrough, and Paul 
Baxter. And rookie import Hakan Loob is 
doing a fine job adjusting to North Ameri
can play.
Vancouver is something of a Jeckyll and 
Hyde act, sometimes playing well, some
times playing poorly, but always playing 
with spirit. Dave Tiger Williams is one 
of the most colorful players around, and 
when hes not gooning, he actually man
ages to contribute to the team. Kevin 
McCarthy is a fine defenseman, and Tony 
Tanti is the teams offensive future.
Who will win the Stanley Cup? Its hard 
to bet against the Islanders. Runner up? the 
best team in the Campbell Conference, the 
Edmonton Oilers. Long shots include Bos
ton and Buffalo, both of whom can beat 
New York in a playoff series, and darkhorses 
are Quebec and the Rangers, who might just 
convince themselves theyre as good as they 
think they are. Stay tuned . . .
One team in for a hard stretch is Edmon
ton. With both Wayne Gretzky and Jari 
Kurri at less than half speed, their powrer trio 
of Gretzky, Kurri and Mark Messier is 
defused. After this line, the scoring abilities 
rest primarily on defenseman Paul Coffey. 
The Oilers are hurting for depth at center, 
with the rest of the crew consisting of 
youngsters Ray Cote and Steve Graves, Pat 
Gonacher, and the feisty Ken Linseman, 
who was dumped by Philadelphia for his 
uncanny ability to shoot off his mouth at the 
worst possible moment.
Edmonton faces a tough post All-Star 
schedule, with visits to Washington, the 
Island, Philadelphia, and Boston  an 
unenviable lineup. But realistically, the 
only possible casualty they face is a loss of 
confidence, as they are certainly unchal
lenged in their division.
Wasnt it nice to have an All-Star game 
taken in its proper perspective? Finally, no 
mass arguments about who should pick 
the Stars, when the game should be played, 
why there should be a representative from 
every team, and why the game is played.
The game is a media and fan event, a great
public relations idea, everyones best going 
out and playing together in a night of 
amnesty. Its a chance for all the starts to 
shine at once. It is not a defensive match, a 
goaltenders game, a night of bruising checks 
or a playoff game. Anyone looking for these 
things has got the meaning of the game 
wTong, and is bound to be disappointed.
Isnt it also great that Don Maloney was 
the MVP (Most Valuable Player)? Hes not 
knowTi for astronomical point totals, he isnt 
a spectacular playmaker, yet in a scorers 
game, he had one goal and three assists as he 
and Hartfords ex-USA olympian Mark 
Johnson tied the All-Star game assist record. 
Hes known for the rare qualities heart and 
hard work, and its only fair that he receives 
recognition.
A thought: have you noticed, as the home 
stretch is approaching and the games are 
starting to mean something, that the scores 
are getting lower and the starts are the 
goaltenders?
Lesley Brunker is a Creative Writing/His
tory sophomore who is The Tartans hockey 
columnist.
By DAVE LAFYATIS
Tartan Staffwriter
consecutive P.A.C. championship 
J straight dual meet wins. With these pr 
vious accomplishments behind them, tl 
Tartan track team has started winner \vc 
kouts, but as head coach Gary Meckl,
, Its going to be very tough to wi 
another conference championship. Alleg] 
eny and Case Western Reserve are boi 
, year, and should make it a fier, 
battle for the championship.
lost many of his stars fro 
does retain defending P.A.I 
400 intermediate hurdle and 400 meter das 
champion Bob Krause. Krause is also tl 
of this years squad. Krause wi 
lead the sprint corps, that should be bolsten 
by the addition of freshman Gee 
Kaplan. The loss of last years P.A.C. MY 
Kevin Cureton will severely weaken tl 
sprint corps.
CMU once again looks strong in the di 
tance events, led by a slew of talented cros 
country runners. Balance is the key in the 
long events, and the Tartans are prepart 
with ten fine performers. This will beavit 
area for CMU throughout their season.
The field events are an area of great coi 
cem for Meckley. Freshman football play 
Mike Boyle has been a real bright spot inti 
discus and shot-put, but the team is still ve 
thin all through the jumping and throwir 
events.
These early February workouts are vit 
for the success of the team. Although tl 
season doesnt actually start until la 
March, it is very important to start gettir 
into good shape now.
Meckley says, All these workouts consi 
of right now is some weightlifting, workin 
on techniques, and getting some mileac 
in. Right now about 40 people have coir 
out for the team, which usually has 65-7 
members. The lack of depth could become 
big problem for the Tartans as they attemf | 
to defend their conference crown.
Meckley summarized by commentin 
This squad has a winning tradition, an 
would like to keep it. We have a lot from la 
year, and if we do hold off Allegheny an 
win another championship it will be son 
kids that havent come out yet that wi 
make the difference. Anyone who is intei 
ested in becoming a part of the prograr 
should just come to a practice (4:30 outsidj 
the gym) and well be glad to have him
The Alumni Association and SARC 
wish to thank everyone who 
helped make the class of 1984s 
Senior Banquet a success.
A special thanks toAB Dancefor a wonderful ending to a special evening.
Women's rugby startin' 
first competitive seasoi
By JANICE BULLARD
Tartan Staffwriter
Twenty-two girl rugby players eagerly 
and anxiously await their second season at 
CMU. While last season consisted of teach
ing and practicing the game, this will be a 
season of competition for the girls rugby 
team. They will compete with others in the 
tri-state area.
The girls have had a lot of help from the 
male rugby team, state Jyl Luria and Suzy 
Raginsky, co-founders of the team. In partic
ular, Rob Sanderson, Chris Dunne, Mike 
Granigan, Timbo, and John Longe have 
contributed to the coaching staff. Eric Hoff
man has provided considerable assistance 
to getting the girls organized as a club. The
team has been coached on everythii 
including the business end of the game
New members are always welcome, 
team practices twice a week on Flagstaff 
at 4:30 p.m., and new members can join 
any point in the'season. Rugby, although 
appears chaotic, is not difficult to learn 
doesnt take much time (practices last at 
an hour and a half), and its a good 
from school.
Luria and Raginsky look forward to 
great season. We have a great teaift 
claimed Raginsky, who has been pracficn 
with a cast on her right arm. I 
everything but tackle. It doesnt matter 
you think you are too small. Rugby a 
heart, not size, said Raginsky.
out*
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1984The TartanPage 21
MAJORS
I
ction A
ie Mission
tE
KA - A
eight Watchers 
ispended Animation 
fiTien
JPA I
netrators 
[ction B 
^TA - A 
C. Grclins 
ie Gents 
jiche Eaters 
larmete 
E. PIKA 
inning Rebels 
eelancersINTERMEDIATE
cc
etaXi-B 
othership 
Id Millworkers 
* |rO Maulers 
[A
[ooglin 5t
ck Door Men 
PPa Sig - B 
?tro
irdans Angles 
^ Dunk A Ball A 
Prospective Grapefruits 
isty NadsK
ppa Sig - A 
0
IM BASKETBALL STANDINGS
wLDU03Poo Poo Nu2230Big EastWLDelta Upsilon1331Penetrators30The Infected Scabs0221MEMS; 30AFROTC II03216E Niners20Beta (B)WL11.Wolfpack10Four Os3012Architects02Less Filling2013Earls Fools02AFROTCI2004Bad Attitude93The Bullets31
wit 4Nasty Habits02Electric 8c Computer Eels22407-E Sixers1131Big TenWLZimbawe Tech1221ATO Tide20SAE0122Delta2 Phi20KS - Bruisers0322Arch Angels20Forbes St. Bombers0312Turning Machine10Chi (C)wL12Clay Buckets01Return of the Gwangi4004Tau Delta Phi Alpha01Carls20
: :DTD02Skid Row21
WLAll Card - No Board03Zoo.32
30SecwLThe Comets22
20Phi Kap - A20Tau Delta Phi Beta12
20Degenerates204 Roselawn Terr.12
11L. B. Melraans20Pi Lamda Phi13
11Cash in Advance11Proles03
01Quiche Eaters11Delta (D)wL
03Theta Xi - A12Fun Bunch30
03Math Grads03Ice Patrol30
WLMINORSPIKA - C20
20Alpha (A)wLThe Dudes21
20Cafes30Jump and Pump
10Engine Co. 2310Lost Cause12
10Carrott Cycles31Guys and Girls12
12The Rev Team21Gumbys13
02Phi Kap B11Men Without Talent03
What's where 
A guide to locating Computation Center services 
February 7, 1984
Beginning today most Computation Center offices and services are moving to the University Computing Center 9o.***- services, 
however, will remain in Wean Hall until construction of the University Computing Center is completed. When you need =omeone or 
something in the Computation Center, this i* WHERE you will find WHAT (or WHO):
The University Computation Center
These Computation Center facilities are non in the UCC:
- Offices for All Computation Center Groups
- The Computer Systems, Tape Library, and Plotter 
~ The Personal Computer Store
Some Computation Center staff phone numbers have changed 
The 1983-84 university Facu1tu/fttaff Directory lists the 
revised numbers for Computation Center Staff
Public access to the UCC
What stays in Wean Hall?
While co the build 
the Warn 
BySANyJBY b e used 
Store on 
b u i 1 d i n g
SG U IJJ 
working h 
hours are 
SLrUespct i 
and outpu
nstruction continues on the UCC, public access to 
ing will be restricted to the entrance adjacent to 
er Hall plaza It is clearly marked C.M U.
The stairs immediately inside this entrance will 
to get to the Machine Room and Personal Computer 
the lower level. Signs are posted throughout the 
to direct you to your destination
will be open to the public during normal university 
ours (8:30 to 5 00 weekdays). Evening and weekend 
planned and will be announced as soon as possible 
ur hour access will begin when the public terminal 
t areas are completed
The construction of the UCC's atrium area has oelayed the 
completion of public terminal and output areas These areas 
will remain in Wean Mall until a later date
Xerox 9700 output will continue to be filed in 
3601 Wean Hall. Phone inquiries about Xerox 
output can be made at Extension 2644
Plotter and Line Printer output will be couriered 
from the UCC with the Xerox tapes
The User Consultant's Office will continue regular 
hours in Room 5205 Wean Hall. User Services staff 
offices will move however. Call Extension 2667 
to speak with a User Consultant or to make an 
appointment with a staff consultant.
Directory
Comp. Center MainOfficeUCC FirstFloorExt.2638
Machine RoomUCC LowerLevelExt6&8S
Personal ComputerStoreUCC LowerLeve 1Ext2636
User Consultant5205 WeanHal 1Ext2667
Xerox Output3600 WeanHallExt2644
V

---------------------------------------------------

When someone drinks too much and then drives, its the silence that kills. Your silence.It kills your friends, your relatives, and people you dont even know. But theyre all people you could save.If you knew what to say, maybe youd be less quiet. Maybe fewer people would die.What you should say is, Ill drive you home. Or, Let me call a cab. Or, Sleep on my couch tonight.Dont hesitate because your friend may have been drinking only beer. Beer and wine can be just as intoxicating as mixed drinks.And dont think that black coffee will make him sober. Black
coffee never made anyone sober. Maybe it would keep him awake long enough to have an accident. But thats about all.The best way to prevent a drunk from becoming a dead drunk is to stop him from driving.Speak up. Dont let silence be the last sound he hears.
DRUNK DRIVER, DEPT. Y 
BOX 2345
ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND 20852
I dont want to remain silent.
Tell me what else I can do.
Mv name is.
Address__
Citv______State
FRIENDS DONT LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK.
*5n!
U.S. DLPAKl'MKNT OF TRANSPOKIA IlON  NATIONAL HIGHWAY THAFFIC SAFIiTY ADMINISTRAIION

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1984The TartanPage 23
idividual Statistics
ixsty Swartz (H) 
arp (T) 
ack (B)
jnningham (JC) 
hnsson (CWRU) 
molly (W&J) 
jbriel (CMU) 
ollis (CWRU) 
xl Swartz (H)
Ix his (JC) 
bndeneen (T)
U(T)
psty Swartz (H) 
bd Swartz (H) 
hnsson (CWRU)
Overall
>AC Basketball Report (30 Jan 1984)
Handings - OverallwLper.
Hegheny114.733
liram86.571
,hn Carroll8b.571
ase Reserve77.500
,'ash. & Jeff*68.428
pthany49.307
niegie-Mellon211.153
heil212.142
ACWL%
iram701.000
Hegheny52.714
>hn Carroll52.714
fash. % Jeff-43.567
jse Reserve35.375
pthany25.286
jjnegie-Mellon26,250
heil16.143
68 
79 
65 
74 
71 33 
62 50 
FG FT 
45 33
rchia (W&J)' 
abriel (CMU) 
bnnolly (W&J)
rnn(A) * ),
 Throw Percentage - Overall 
[in. o 75% and 2.5 scored/game)
39
46
41
43
28
32
34
34
37
2622
41
14
20
16
32
19
14
14
4
25
28
Pts
263
260
183
246
224
14.6
172
157
279
175
174
Pts
123
119
106
102
102
88
83
82
82
78
77
72
Avg
18.8
18*.6
18.3
17.6 
16.0
13.2
13.1
12.8
12.5
12.4 
Avg
20.5 
19.8
17.7 
17.0
17.0
14.7
13.8
13.7
13.7
13.0
12.8
12.0
>*ack (CWRU)
C
rP (T)
'els (A) 
rchia (W&J) 
t>ski (CMU)
Hack (CWRU)
>dstock (W&J) 
if (CMU) 
art (H) 
lihan (T)
swell (JC) 
chis (JC) 
nn (W&J)
st-s - Overall (min. of 3 assists/game)
C
am(H) 
ndeneen (T) 
eve (H) 
msson (CWRU) 
to (A)
(CMU) 
*P(T) 
loot (H)
nn*ngham (JC) 
(JC)
GRebAvg
141319.4
151197.9
141007.1
151036.9
14966.9
13906.9
14926.6
GRebAvg
6518.5
6437.2
6427.0
6396.5
6396.5
6386.3
6386.3
5316.2
6376.2
6376.2
6366.0
6366.0
GAttMade%
64641.891
63832.842
61916.842
62420.833
63528.800
63024.800
64233.736
62116.762
62519.760
62519.760
62015.750
Tartan Mens BasketballStatistics after 15 games
NAMEGFGMFGAperFTMFTAperRPF-DATOSTTPPPGPete Bennett74579.5691626.6152619-220311410615.1Greg Gabriel15100206.4951417.8243439-255492121414.3Robert Kukowski1544118.3734255.7645543-22235151308.7George Debski153995.4112940.7256035-2101641077.1Richard Neff153795.3892653.4919348-1625131006.7Scott Saxton131531.4841117.6473820273413.2Herb Sendek1414.452712.583112019169352.5Ray Brennan142971.40889.889261513225664.7Dwayne Waite112040.500613.46255272103464.2John Taormina121649.3271825.7202424-13209504.2Tom Suckling5516.31358.625136533153.0Mark Trich linger327.28623.6674301162.0Dave Gestrich3410.40024.50083131103.3Ed Pultz100.00000.0000000000.0David Bart200.00000.0001001000.0CMU15370848.436186282.66952930215823910192661.7OPPONENT15424856.495231317.729553283178198134107971.9
IPlayer-of-the-Week: Victor Harp, a 6'2" 170- 
pound forward for the Thiel College Tom
TotalTotalcats, scored 44 points, grabbed 20 rebounds
PACGAssistsAvgOverallGAssistsAvgand accounted for 6 steals last week, as Thiel
Williams (A)6498.2Williams (A)1079upset Case Reserve, 59*58, and fell to
Pollack (H)6345.7Pollock (H)14654.6Washington & Jefferson, 65-60. Harp, a jun
Swartz (H)6233.8Swartz (H)14503.6ior from Wilkinsburg, PA, scored 26 points
Weinberg <B)6223.7Gabriel (CMU)13463.6and pulled down 13 rebounds vs. Case. He
Gabriel (CMU)63.5Metzgar (JC)13453.5had 18 points and 7 boards at W & J. Harp
Combs (JC)6193 2Johnsson (CWRU)14443.1connected on 16 of 32 shots from the floor
Metzgar (JC)5153.0(50%) and 12 of 15 from the foul line (80%).
SPRING BREAK *84.THE TRADITION LIVES ON!
1AKE THE GREATER FORT LAUDERDALE BREAK.
Hollywood, Pompano Beach, Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, Deerfield Beach.
Want the tradition to live on forever? Then order your full-color 17" x 23" poster of Spring Break 84 by sending 
$3.00 (check or money-order, no cash, please) to: Spring Break 84, 500 Third Avenue West, Seattle, WA 98119. 
Be sure to include your name, address and college. Price includes postage and handling.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanFebruary 7, 1984
By MAURA SAVINI
Tartan Staff writer
Although few students here at CMU may 
be fully aware of it, there is an intercollegiate 
fencing team active on our campus, and 
according to Coach Jane Fisk, an extremely 
enthusiastic team at that. The team has par
ticipated in one tournament this season, and 
made a strong showing. The novice meet 
was held last Sunday, January 29, and in the 
four finalist positions the CMU team was 
alone, sweeping the tournament. One of 
these positions was even held by one of the 
women fencers on the team.
Fisk is very pleased with her team 
members. She reported that, although only
one of her fencers has had previous expe
rience, the team is eager to leam their sport, 
and they show a lot of promise. One of her 
most important goals this season is to get 
experience for the team; if they happen to 
win a few, that would be an added plus.
Saturday, February 4, the team will travel 
to Penn State (main campus) for a tourna
ment consisting of about seven male teams 
and four female teams. Fisk said that most of 
the teams would have more experience, and 
she hoped that her team would gain some 
added skills. The teams first home meet was 
to have been Tuesday, January 31, but it was 
postponed due to illness. That meet will be 
rescheduled. The teams next home meet is 
Wednesday, February 8, against IUP.
The Institute for Paralegal Training works.So do its graduates.
Four months of intensive training can add market value to your college degree.
A sampling of jobs our graduates hold: 
LEGISLATIVE RESEARCHER, MUNICIPAL BOND PARALEGAL, 
REAL ESTATE MARKETING DIRECTOR,
ESTATES & TRUSTS LEGAL ASSISTANT, ENERGY SPECIALIST, 
ANTITRUST SPECIALIST, CORPORATE BENEFITS PLANNER, 
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW SPECIALIST
 Through our corporate contacts, our national search team 
and our computenzed placement service, we have placed over 
5,000 of our graduates in law firms, banks and corporations 
nationwide.
 You can specialize in one of seven areas of the law.
 All courses include training in computer applications to legal 
practice.
 If we cannot secure a job for you in the city of your choice, we 
provide a substantial tuition rerund.
 Financial aid and housing are available.
We'll be at your campus on February 15
Contact your placement office to see our resource book on 
law-related careers and to arrange for a group presentation 
or a personal interview.
To leam more, call collect: (215) 567-4811 Or, retum the Coupon.
THE INSTITUTE
FOR\R4LCAL
TRMNING
PhiladelphiaHouston
Mail this coupon to:RCMU
The Institute for Paralegal Training,
1926 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103
Please send a free copy of your catalogue 
? Philadelphia ? Houston
Nam*______________________________________
Address____________________________________
City  Stale
College__________________
Ztp
(yt. al grad I
Phone .
Wrestling Club. . .
Kuefler running wrestling squad while continuii 
as wrestler; coach, players needed to build teat
Enthusiastic fencers show promise but inexperience
By ANDRE GLENN
Tartan Staffwriier
Joe Kuefler is working hard to bring wres
tling back to CMU, Varsity wrestling was 
discontinued years ago, and Kuefler is trying 
to bring it back.
All of his efforts have resulted in 43 people 
joining the wresding club, of which 18 are 
regulars. Now, 43 is a nice number, but 
more people are needed. To have a decent 
team, 60 or more people are needed. Inexpe
rience is no reason not to join the club. 
Experience is not necessary, there are already 
six members that have not wrestled before.
There are many benefits to joining the 
club. More than anything else, you can 
build yourself up to the peak of physical 
fitness. According to Joe, wrestling is, . .the 
number one sport to get yourself into shape. 
The intense body building lessens the fat 
content in your body to a minimal level. 
Another thing in wresdings favor is that 
as a wrestler, are guaranteed to face an oppo
nent of equal size. Unlike in football, where 
you can see a threehundred pound offen
sive lineman go up against a two-hundred
pound defensive lineman. Theres no $u 
thing as being too small in wrestlin 
There is a wide variety of weight divisior^ 
that everyone can participate. If you air 
are an experienced wrestler then this is y0 
golden opportunity to leam different stylf 
from players from all around the county]
Besides not being a varsity team, thevvtd 
ding club has another problem. It 
have a coach. It is a little too much to ask [J 
Kuefler to try and run the team hir 
After all, he is a player himself. Whati 
team needs is someone to serve as a co 
per se. Unfortunately, there isnt a sal; 
for a coach right now since they are not| 
recognized entity.
The wrestling club needs people, so if J 
are interested then show up at Thistle ] 
(in the Gymnasium) Saturdays at 3 
Thats where the club practices. This dj 
also needs someone who has had coachia 
experience and is willing to work with 
pay for awhile. It is very important toch 
the bulletin board in front of the weigl 
room and the I.M. board in the Gym fra 
time to time for wrestling news.
Tartan Sports Schedule
Wed., Feb. 8
Fri., Feb. 10 
Sat., Feb. 11
Mens basketball, at Bethany, 8:00 pm 
Womens basketball, at Allegheny, 8:00 pm 
Swimming, home vs. Bethany/St. Francis, 3:30 pm 
Fencing, home vs. IUP, 5:30 pm 
Womens basketball, at Allegheny, 8:00 pm 
Mens basketball, at Allegheny, 8:00 pm 
Swimming, home vs. John Carroll/Slippery Rock, !:00f 
Fencing, Intercollegiate Tourney, home, 10:00 am
Quinn rips USFL
New league detrimenti
(present phone)
?
By Sean Quinn
After watching the San Francisco 49ers 
defeat the Cincy Bengals in Super Bowl XVI 
in the winter of 1982,1 settled down to a few 
months of relaxation and looked forward to 
a new baseball season. Yet, last 
winter, and again this winter, I 
must put up with an endless 
football season. The United 
States Football League plays Spring/Summer Football. Enough!
The USFL argues that spring is a great 
time for football. They dont mention that 
they are afraid of competing with the NFL. 
They say that people want to watch more 
football on T.V. They dont mention that 
for the second consecutive year (the USFL 
lifetime) ratings on USFL, NFL, and col
lege football are down. This is incredible 
saturation. I love chocolate, but I dont eat it 
for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. The USFL 
claims that more cities want football. Again, 
they dont mention that about one-half of 
the teams are in NFL cities and that one 
franchise, the Breakers, moved from Boston, 
an NFL city, to New Orleans, another NFL 
city.
Also, the USFL has done nothing to 
enhance even the most addicted football 
fans love of the game. It is detracting from 
it. Read any sports page; notice that one-half 
of the articles on football, especially the 
USFL, are about court cases and other off 
the field activities, such as the case of 
whether Marcus Dupree, an idiot who 
doesnt go to class, will turn to the USFL 
money or continue his education.
rhe quality of the playing has declined,
too. A large number of would-be footb 
players are trying to be professionals."( 
of them is going to get seriously hurt sou 
day, and realize he should have grown  
and come to grips with the fact thatheisn 
physically capable of playing football j 
such a level.
Then, there are the long range probabi 
ties. First, the salary of the average footl 
player is climbing at an astronomical i 
Certainly good for the players themself 
but who pays for these USFL-NFL] 
wars? Lets take a wild guess and say 
fans. Both kinds, the ucket-holderand 
TV-watcher, because long-range pro 
number one leads to long-range pr 
number two. That is pay-television forj 
sports, especially football, since that ato 
the most per game viewers of any sPorlJ
And, of course, that leads to pro 
number three, which is high costs oft 
automobiles, tires, and sporting goods, 
sponsors df football who pay enon 
sums of money for a 30-second cornrfl0 
Who knows, problem number three < 
lead to the decline of the beer industry p 
just a hypothesis).
All of this rhetoric, I know its rheto 
probably just a little steam I had ioleti) 
know, I know. But, Im not wen 20 yf315! 
and I can remember the good oldu3)J 
baseball and card-collecting and on a1] 
Such things are for our grandfathers, 
they. Were still young, but lets keep-1 
tradition too. Lets get rid of spring 1 
its for our own good.
Sean Quinn is a sophomore Archil] 
major and a regular Tartan spoilt

---------------------------------------------------

And Everything Nice will be selling
Flowers (OShampoo - Cut 
$10
Conditioning, blow dry
Student ID required 
Expires March 5, 1984every Friday at Skibo Grey Matter,
9:305:30
110 South Bouquet Street 
Oakland
621-2087
Rt. 19 & New Freedom Road 
Cranberry Mall
776-1521
Convenient day and 
evening hours.
Sponsored by Activities Fee
ThE Campauwill RUN SpECAlsahoupiuong Ay clAssifiEds.more often
Free medium coke with a purchase of any sandwich.
Come and get it at these Magic limes:
Sunday 6 * 8pm 
Mon.-Thurs. 9~llpm
Metaluer
FmdAy, FebRUARy IOtIi 
5:00 p.ivi.
gywir
50C fOR EVERy 10 WORS
offer void on deliveries
university
dining
service
ClAssifiEds will AppEAR 
N ThE FEbRLARy 14h SSUE

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial. ___________ 1
Students express themselves with music
Today marks the twentieth anniversary of 
the Beaties arrival in America.
Twenty-five years ago this week, Buddy 
Holly died in a plane crash with Big Bopper 
and Richie Vallie.
Rock and roll music. Some made it their 
lives. The Beatles and Holly were two of its 
greatest pioneers.
Rock and roll is the newest type of music, 
barely 30 years old. A little bit of rhythm, a 
little bit of blues, a little bit of country, a litde 
bit of gospel. Carl Perkins, Bill Haley and the 
Comets, and Elvis Presley all sang about the 
way things were. They were using a new 
means of expression.
The early sixdes brought the Beatles and the 
Beach Boys, happy sounds of love and surfing.
Young people all over the country became 
enveloped by a type of music with which they 
could idendfy. It was their means of 
expression.
That expression became that of rebellion 
when the late sixties arrived. Jimi Hendrix, 
Rolling Stones, and even the Beatles sung out 
against the establishment. The Who released 
their youth anthem, My Generation. Bob 
Dylan revolutionized folk music. Some people 
said the youth of America needed a good slap 
across the face. After all, they were shoudng 
out the way they felt, through music.
It quieted down after that. The early seven
ties were mellow, the mid seventies showed a 
return to rocks roots, and the late seventies
brought a new wave of music, mostly fron 
England. The eighties represent great diversity 
in rock and roll, and all in the name of 
expression.
The United States takes great pride in bein 
a nation whose citizens are free to say whatevt 
they want to say, whenever they want to say 
and however they want to be heard.
Much of the pre-rock generation has 
rock and roll is too loud, too radical, and 
incomprehensible. Sometimes it is, but for th 
youth of America, including CMU students 
is their way of saying, Yes, I care!, to th 
people who just dont seem to listen to then
In wake of rock and rolls two most signif 
gant anniversaries, you can rock and roll dow 
if you wish, but dont turn it off.
san
Columnists debate economics of nuclear armU.S. ought to use military power to promote American and allied security
By Bill Garrison
To view the worth of increased defense 
spending strictly through the eyes of an 
economist would be like determining the 
worth of a car strictly by what the dealer 
says.
Given the rapid deployment 
r and growth of the nuclear weap
onry of our major foes, it is cru
cial that the United States stay ahead or at 
least maintain equality in that race. Ameri
cas military objective is two-fold. There is 
obviously the foremost goal to protect our 
country and preserve the freedom of its 
people.
But there is a second, equally important 
goal: to use the power and strength that God 
has allowed this nation to build for the pres
ervation of freedom throughout the world. 
America, as a world leader and a free demo
cracy, has the sovereign duty to uphold that 
democracyand everything it stands for
both domestically and universally.
To sit idly by and allow the spread of 
communism and terrorism to exist, in the 
form of less fortunate and weaker nations 
being invaded and persecuted by powerful 
communist regimes, would not only go 
against the declarations set forth in our Con
stitution, but would serve to eventually 
endanger the security and welfare of our 
own freedom
This preservation of freedom abroad is 
not without immediate causes. Throughout 
the seventies and the eighties, civilized 
nations have been shaken by a wave of 
widespread, international terrorist attacks. 
Time and again, nations and individuals 
have been subjected to extortion and murder 
at the hands of extremists who reject the rule 
of law, civil order, and the sanctity of indi
vidual human rights. The United States 
must provide the leadership in creating an 
international consensus. Firmness and ref
usal to concede are ultimately the only effec
tive deterrents to terrorism.
There has been much talk recently about 
integrating more diplomatic negotiation 
into our foreign policy, but the effectiveness 
of negotiation comes only through the 
power a nation has to back it up. Americas 
once-powerful word was severely lessened 
during the previous administrations as they 
proceeded to delay or cancel essential stra
tegic military programs such as the B-l, the 
MX missile and the Trident submarine. 
These actions seriously damaged the credi
bility and effectiveness of not only the U.S. 
deterrent force but also the U.S. image 
abroad.
A powerful military is a powerful govern
ment. We, as a nation, must be able to incor
porate a military arsenal equal to or better 
than that of the Soviet Union, while also 
maintaining our God-given right to insure 
the freedom and prosperity of our people
and the people of the world. The globe 
ambitions of the Soviets, as well asourothi 
dangerous enemies, must be checked. Th 
Soviet Union is still accelerating its drivefo 
military superiority and is intensifying j 
military pressure and its ideological combi 
against the industrial democracies and i 
vulnerable developing nations of the worl 
The continued expense and justifiable ] 
gress of our nuclear weaponry is the uli 
mate military guarantor of America 
security and that of our allies.
America is the only nation in the m 
today that has the military ability, themoi 
commitment, and the technological knot 
how to stop the Soviet Union. I jets keep 
that way.
Bill Garrison is a junior in technically 
ing and will be writing the conservah 
view in a weekly point-counterpoint.
America is too quick to use military force where diplomacy is sufficient
By F*l'na Pratto
Americathe rich and the powerful. This 
has long been the worlds image and our 
own. But both internally and externally, 
belief in this view is faltering, and with good 
cause. Our reliance on military 
might, rather than ecomonic 
interdependency and diplo
macy, is destroying U.S. wealth 
and power.
Since our undeniable military superiority 
in World War II (we were the only ones with 
the bomb), we have pretended to dominate 
the world. Yet U.S. international and 
domestic policies are being repudiated by 
the world. Note the UN resolutions against 
the U.S. invasion on Grenada, the reluc
tance of our NATO allies to house Ameri
can missiles, the condemnation of U.S. 
economic policy by our Japanese and Euro
pean friends, our inability to get the Israelis 
to agree to a peace plan, or even to tell us 
before they take military action against their 
neighbors. Despite tough talking by our 
President and huge military budgets, we are 
losing influence in the world.
Indeed, even Third World nations have a 
tremendous influence on America. Last 
year, 20% of the $265 billion spent on defense 
last year went to Third World military aid. 
Right now our President tells us his foreign 
and military policy is dictated by guerillas in 
the Third World: We cant pull out of 
Lebanon because we would lose face. We 
have to have expensive military maneuvers 
in Central America because it will scare the 
new American revolutionaries. By our 
insistence that countries that are not mil
itary allies ar ot our friends, mighty America
is allowing dinky, poor, non-white Third
World countries, the disenfranchised of 
the world, to determine how we spend our 
money, where we send our troops, and our 
morality.
Aside from Latin America, our big guns 
foreign policy is costing us our wealth. 
(Another paradox, since our nuclear arsenal 
is designed to protect American interests.) 
In case you havent heard, our deficit is 
breaking records. And our elected budget 
managers, Congress and the President, have 
no solution; they are just trying to figure out 
how to make the interest payments.
It is no coincidence that the record deficit 
and unemployment have come with record 
defense spending. Studies of the relation
ship of federal spending and jobs show that 
defense spending is the most inefficient way 
to create jobs. For instance, $1 million spent 
on education would create 50,000 jobs, on 
health care, 64,000 jobs. There are other indi
cations defense spending hurts the ecomomy. Another study of defense spending by 
state showed that in almost all the states, 
increased defense spending actually decrease 
the number of jobs. Unemployment is 
acknowledged by even trickled-down theor
ists to reduce national wealth: the tax base 
decreases, long-term health care costs 
increase, and umemployed people must be 
supported somehow.
There are more obvious ways our big mil
itary stance has had detrimental consequen
ces for the ecomomy. Besides tying down 
capital, we have invested many of our besteducated and brightest minds in the devel
opment of tools for destruction, not of tools 
for living. A third of college graduates now
go to work in the weapons industry. Huge 
government defense contracts enable com
panies like Rockwell, Westinghouse, TRW, 
Livermore, and most of your favorites to 
hire the top engineering graduates for very 
plush salaries. Meanwhile, other industries, 
notably autos and steel, havent been moder
nized in years.
In our own national interest, we have to 
reduce tremendous human and natural 
resources spent on military operations. 
Given our current deficit, it is not feasible to 
develop any new defensive systems. We 
need to spend our resources on strengthen
ing ourselves, not on weakening others. 
Improvements in education, arts, nutrition, 
consumer industries, energy, our environ
ment, and health care would really benefit 
citizens of America. And thats what our 
government is for  us. Not for the military, 
or corporate interests, or against every other 
nation, but for We, the People.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opted 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tarlan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board. '
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves
Felicia Pratto is a psychology alumna 
CMU and is a columnist for the Tart 
Pratto will be one of three columnists w\ 
will take liberal points of view in a wed 
point-counterpoint.
TheM^i
Editor in Chief................................................Ric
Managing Editor...................................Susan W
Business Manager...................................Karen Tjl
News Editor..............................Neil J. Greenbli
Features Editor....................................Neal John
Entertainment Editor............................Mark Li'1
Sports Editor......................Christopher D. I*
Photography Editor............................Mike Pik*
Production Manager...............................Maria 1
Typesetting Manager............................Patti Cad
Art Director...................................Michael Suss
Contributing Editors.................Vincent1
viel.f o
Pauline"*
Pauline
Asst. Ent Editor........................................Adam 1
Asst. Sports Editor.....................................Scott ^
Asst. Business Manager.......................Bonnie 1
Production Staff: Robert Aarhus, Peter * 
Andrew Ghali, Tracey Pejouhy, ^ 
Speranza, Steve Volan.
Copyright  1984 by The Tartan. The Editorial^ 
reserves the right to withhold from publicaoofl 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editor^1 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: SkjW 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

m m*.* mm *mmn
that the articles remain on pages 2,
As for the ads, well they are not only 
funding the articles, but they help pay for 
the opinion space as well. One of those 
necessary evils. So in conclusion, Id like to 
say 1) I like the new format, ESPECIALLY 
the improved calendar; and 2) I like starting 
my sentences with preposterous grammar, 
cause they never let me do that in high 
school, but then again, I did graduate . . .
s not to offend those who think 
portant to read the latest install)oes CMU spread the holiday 
than to read articles and adverwill vote that maybe the page 
ore towards the center of the 
xDsed to the last thing before the 
o, however, insist that in keepFebruary 7, 1984The TartanPage 27
etters:
he Tartan is biased
to not understand why The Tartan finds 
cessary to print a biased article about the 
. relatively small political event in 
hington, D.C. every year. Does die Tarceally think that CMU students are so 
ested in what certain individuals from 
nd the country have to say about aborthat it requires two-thirds of the front
may come as a surprise to Tartan edithat there are many organizations on 
pus that do newsworthy things every 
Student Senate and Alpha Phi Omega 
two such organizations. They are
lew format
involved with improving the quality of 
campus life in a very direct way. Their 
efforts go largely unsung in The Tartan.
One expects such reporting from tabloids 
such as The National Enquirer. Given that 
we pay for The Tartan through our student 
activities fee we demand more responsible 
reporting.
Paul Kohlbrenner 
Senior, Math/CS
The Tartan will continue to run articles on 
controversial topics that concern student 
organizations, whether pro-life, pro-choice 
or otherwiseEditor.
Opinion is good in back
those brave folks who are risking 
[st everything (grades, sleep, friend1, etc.), Id like to express my thanks for 
^legation of the Opinion/Letters page to 
ack of the paper.
[>w, so as 
tiore
on Does 
fairly 
lents, I will 
go more 
\f, as
ir. I do, however, insist 
Ivith the concept of the Tartan as a 
|S PAPER (thats news, as in factual 
[rings of earth shattering and mundane
events, not including the personal flavorings)3.4
like to 
Y
*
high 
did graduate . . .
Rally is not newsworthy
Rikki Ladd 
Evening Manager 
Audio-Visual Services 
Hunt Library
Editor
An article about a special interest political 
march in Washington, D.C. which a small 
handful of Pittsburgh area (not just CMU) 
students attended is NOT news, let alone 
front page news. No matter how boring it 
gets at this University, The Tartan has an 
ethical obligation not to print propaganda 
thinly disguised as news. Pro-life and 
anti-abortion are terms used exclusively
by one faction of two mutually antagonistic, 
single issue political group. Had the article 
been written by someone on the other end of 
the spectrum, it would have included the 
term pro-choice. The sports editors 
biased piece should have appeared on the 
opinion pages at the back of the Tartan 
(where the sports pages used to be).
C. D. Council 1 
HfcSS, Class of 81
also balanced the budget
vert became President to improve academics
By Richard Cyert
^elve years ago in May, the trustees of 
pgie-Mellon elected me to become the 
president of the university effective 
|1,1972. My election occurred during a 
dark period in the history' of the 
university when significant 
deficits had been run for three 
years and there was genuine fear 
the future of the university. After the
v I was brought into the trustees meet1 talk with them. I told them that I had 
pken the presidency merely to balance 
Jdget. I thought that feat could be done 
put too much difficulty. I emphasized 
|iy real purpose in taking the presid
es to continue the effort toward mak
ing Camegie-Mellon a great university. Had 
I known everything I know now, I probably 
would not have been so bold as to make 
those statements.
However, a recent U.S. News and World 
Report survey was conducted among 1300 
presidents of colleges and universities in the 
United States. As a result of that survey, 
Camegie-Mellon University was ranked 
thirteenth among national universities. I 
am gratified by these results because it is one 
of the many measures of success that indi
cate to me that we are achieving the objective 
that I established that day in May 1972.
Improved quality of Carnegie-Mellon is 
important for the long-run health of the
Pittsburgh economy. The faculty and 
administration are interested in helping to 
rebuild the economy or our dty. I believe 
that research done in our Department of 
Computer Science and related areas will 
result in a significant rebuilding of Pitts
burgh. This will occur because new firms 
will be started by our faculty and students, 
and other firms from the computer industry 
as well as related industries will be attracted 
to the area.
Many firms wish to locate here because of 
Camegie-Mellon University. This move
ment has started and will accelerate. I hope 
that Camegie-Mellon will have an even 
more significant role than MIT had in the
building of Route 128 and Stanford had in 
the building of Silicon Valley. We have the 
foundation for a strong new economy based 
on computer hardware, computer software, 
and robotics. In addition, the joint work 
that we have underway w ith the University 
of Pittsburgh Medical School in both cancer 
research and nuclear magnetic resonance, a 
potential substitute for x-rays, will result in 
a further strengthening of this economy.
The quality of life is as important for fhe 
task of economic development as the factors 
I have mentioned. Carnegie-Mellons 
faculty and graduates in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration, the 
School of Urban and Public Affairs, the Colcontinued on page 29
affirmative action is reverse discrimination
By David Moskowitz
foposition: All men should be regarded 
|Ual without respect to race, 
potation: The Reagan Administra|S ^king to roll back the civil rights 
pi ogress of the last 20 years.
~~ Implication: The Reagan 
Administation has taken steps 
t deny this right to some perI n reality, Ronald Reagan has taken 
1? nia^e this proposal a reality, for 
( ^eserves the utmost credit.
WhY have accusations such as
Ve ^tiotation been so frequent in the fear?
u Civil rights, or those who pro
pose them, have never been concerned with 
equality. All that matters to them is a game 
of numbers called affirmative action, which 
is a synonym for legalized racism.
Affirmative action is the favoring of one 
person over another for no reason other than 
race or sex. Is is wrong if a black or hispanic 
is discriminated against in this way? Our 
laws say yes. Is it wrong if it is done to a 
w hite person? Our laws say no. This is truly 
one of the worst sins this country has yet to 
commit. Proponents of this racism claim it 
is necessaryto reverse the previous trend of 
discrimination inflicted on certain minori
ties in the past. While it is true that certain 
groups have been discriminated against in
the past, applying reverse discrimination 
brings them down to the level of the lowest 
racist of the past or present. Even worse, it 
admits that racism is moral and is only a 
matter of choice of those in power by mak
ing certain races pay for mistakes committed 
by their ancestors generations ago, they are 
again preaching racism. On the more prac
tical side, ask has affirmative action
accomplished anything other than making it 
harder tor minorities to advance by affirm
ing their inequality or look to the past. It 
was without government help that most 
European immigrants overcame discrimi
nation and rose from having nothing to th 
top of the social ladder. They did this 
through hard work and competency 
traits which affirmative action throws out of 
the rulebook.
So what was Ronald Reagans big sin 
in the field of civil rights? It was his appoint
ment to the Civil Rights Commission of 
four persons who (god forgive them) are 
opposed to affirmative action. As I said 
before, for this advancement in civil rights, 
the president deserves the utmost appraisal 
artd in regard to the racist of the century, 
James Watt, and his infamous Jew, Black 
and Cripple line, wasnt he really mocking 
the whole idea of affirmative action which 
has become the status quo erf eovemment?
Daind Moskowitz is a freshman in CtTand 
is a columunist for The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28The TartanFebruary 7, 1984
Reagan re-election would insure censorshipFreedom of press is a key to American powe
By Wendy Scott
Have you noticed something strange 
about the news lately? Many important sto
ries have recently disappeared from the 
press. Others never seem to have been told at 
all.
Central America is an exampie of the former. Remember El 
Salvador? The five nuns raped;  ,and killed by the army, the villagers mas
sacred by special security forces? Yes, the 
killings in El Salvador continue, but the 
media has basically dropped the story. Rea
gan and his cabinet justify their support of 
the totalitarian regime in El Salvador by 
insisting that the revolutionaries opposing 
it are Marxist, and are supported by Cuba 
and the Soviets. It seems to me that if I were a 
hungry disenfranchised peasant opposing 
an oppressive landowner, and I removed a 
bullet from my buddys shoulder that said 
Made in USA, that would make me pretty 
sympathetic to Marxism too. But El Salva
dor is not the only forgotten country in Cen
tral America. Peace and contentment have 
not descended upon Nicaragua or Guate
mala either. Both are still countries where a 
knock on the door in the night spells death. 
Never mind the people who disappear on 
country roads  or city streets. Thats just
not news-worthy in America. Reagans 
preoccupation with security (translated
 his image) has caused the suppression of 
such stories, especially when they reflect 
poorly on his policies.
Poland is another example. The food 
lines and shortages continue  near starva
tion in the worlds breadbasket, religious 
oppression, suppression of native leader
ship  all the problems persist. The Soviet 
Union continues its blatant, heavy handed 
attempts to break the Polish spirit. Yet, aside 
from an occasional blurb on page 12 of the 
newspaper, Poland is no longer news in the 
US; not since Reagan wrote her off as 
beyond his influence.
Its business as usual in the Republic of 
South Africa as well. The American Herit
age Dictionary defines apartheid as an offi
cial policy of racial segregation 
promulgated. . . with a view to promoting 
and maintaining white ascendancy. A reas
onable definition, but it misses the aura of 
hatred and violence inherent in the policy. 
The United Nations deemed apartheid to be 
such a flagrant violation of human rights 
that they set an embargo on all arms sales to 
South Africa. As Felicia Pratto pointed out 
last week, we have violated that embargo. 
Yet, we hear nothing of South Africa in the
news. Nothing. Perhaps Reagan is afraid to 
let his countrymen know just how the wea
pons their tax dollars paid for are being used 
in South Africa. Despite the news black-out, 
it doesnt take much imagination to figure 
out just who the South African army is 
using their fine modem American weap
onry on.
So what? I had a roommate once who 
used to complain about my preoccupation 
with news. She simply didnt want to know 
what was going on in foreign lands; said it 
ws depressing. That attitude is fairly com
mon. If we all pulled our heads in like tur
tles Reagan would no longer need to 
suppress the release of information. Person
ally, even if it is depressing, I want to know. 
And I believe our constitution tried to gua
rantee us that option. Even if many people 
do choose to ignore it, information on world 
affairs should be available for those hopeless 
idealists who think they can have some 
impact on foreign policy. But not just for 
the idealists, the merely curious have a right 
to know as well.
Ive heard many so-called liberals argue 
that oppressed people throughout the world 
have given up on the United States. The 
poor are convinced that we will never help 
them, but will continue to indiscriminately
support the status quo, bolstering fUn(| 
mentally evil regimes. I can understa 
their disillusionment. We marchui mt0
country with promises of modemi^ 
and the still glittery American dream 
our aid inevitably takes the final f0rBl 
bullets and tanks. The proud phrase Lj 
of the free and home of the brave become 
foul lie in the pit of the stomach toawom 
in the Philippines, El Salvador, Grenada, 
South Africa who watches her husbj 
gunned down with US rifles.
I cling to my dream, the dream 
knowledge is power. I still believe 
Americans really knew what was going 
all over the world the sheer outrage of 
reaction would force a change in policy 
the controversial stories disappear. Pi 
apathy cannot be the explanation for 
news black-out. News is suppresed, 
the stories make a mockery of Reai 
pretty speeches and rhetoric of peace, 
claims his work is not finished. Im al: 
afraid to leam what he still plans to do. 
course, if he gets re-elected, his poliq 
censorship will probably spare me 
knowledge  until the damage has 
done. Too bad ignorance cannot be bl 
Wendy Scott is a senior in psychology a\ 
a columnist for The Tartan.Reduction of spending would increase freedoi
By Dan Tobias
In my column last week, I put forth the 
position that taxation is morally equivalent 
to theft, and that the government is thus not 
morally entitled to seize a portion of the 
' fruits of an individuals labors. 
A question commonly raised is 
how a government would be 
expected to finance itself with
out taxes. It is this subject which I will now
cover.
First of all, if the question is phrased as 
How can the present government finance 
its present level of expenditures without 
taxes?, the answer is obviously that it cant. 
Our government is presently spending at an 
enormous rate, and there would be no way 
to get people to voluntarily supply the 
government with that kind of money.
However, the necessity of the present bioBAHAMAS SPRING BREAK
from $345
Includes Round Trip Air, Transfer, Seven Nights Accom
modation, Welcome Rum Swizzle, One Hour Rum Swizzle 
Party, Canvas Travel Bag, Three Hour Cruise w/Two Hour 
Unlimited Rum Punch, Beach Party w/Lunch, All Taxes.
NO HIDDEN CHARGES
FORT LAUDERDALE SPRING BREAK
from $135
Includes seven nights at prime location, welcome party 
w/free beer, complimentary travel bag.
AMTRAK only $155
AIR ONLY $198
COLLEGE REP. NEEDED  EARN FREE TRIP
GREENWICH TRAVEL CENTER
1-800-243-3858
ated government must be questioned. There 
are numerous programs which the public 
can do very well without. Many others 
would actually prove a net benefit to the 
individual liberties of the people, quite 
apar t from the monetary savings. For exam
ple, the government should immediately 
cease its harassment of people engaging in 
various noncoercive lifestyles some others 
feel are immoral. Examples are prosti
tutes and their customers, homosexuals, and 
drug users and dealers. These people engage 
in acts between consenting parties, which 
harm nobody else, and as I argued in a 
previous column, these acts should be legal
ized. Doing so would save the many mil
lions of dollars spent annually in their 
enforcement, and free the police to go after 
real crime.
Other things that should go include the 
various costly subsidy programs such as the 
farm subsidies, which I also dealt with in a 
previous column. These harm everybody to 
benefit a small group. Actually, a large part 
of government expenses can be considered 
to be benefitting some small group at eve
ryone elses expense, since special-interest 
lobbyists have great clout with the govern
ment. These sorts of programs should be 
mercilessly eliminated, which will ulti
mately work for the benefit of everyone, 
including members of special interest 
groups, since even they are stung to pay for 
other special interest groups programs.
Then there are some government pro
grams which are actually of service to the 
public, but need not be handled by the 
government. For example, mail delivery 
ought to be done by private companies. The
government has maintained a legal mo 
oly on this, actually threatening toputij 
jail anyone who attemts to deliver a lette 
competition with them. The predicl 
result is an inefficient burearcratic org 
tion giving poor service at increasing prj 
and still losing money. The public' 
benefit if private companies delivered i 
Social programs for the needy 
the bulk of non-military government ( 
ditures. However, I feel that if taxesj 
regulations were lifted, the newly pra 
tive economy would leave fewer jobless I 
ever before. The few truly needy cases] 
could be provided for by private ch 
which would probably be able to getar 
higher amount of contributions thi 
present, since people would have 
excess money to give once the goven 
stopped confiscating it. The welfares 
makes people feel they are entitled toaj 
lunch; they also feel less of a need to sup 
private charity since they feel the 
ment will take care of everything; thisn 
tality is not productive.In the end, the truly necessary funcM 
government (although some anard 
types will argue that even these 
handled by private voluntary meanslj 
police, the court system, and the mil11 
The latter should be simply enou^j 
defend the country against direct attad 
must stop being the worlds policen 
especially must stop befriending right 
dictators to further our interventionist] 
eign policy. However, as the mili^J 
complex topic, Ill save detailed dis<
of it for a future column. , -A government that limits itselt to
functions should not cost very niu^l
person to maintain; and since the fe"'
it does are clearly to the benefit of thep
rather than being restrictive and opp 
I dont think that sort of govern mentj 
have any trouble getting enough vol 
contributions to run itself, if itwou 
ask, rather than just taking withou 
as it does at present. In fact, the P i
government receives over $300,000
in voluntary contributions to re^u
public debt, despite the enormous <
of money the public is forced to
involuntarily, and despite the fact 1
contributions are not actively so*10
the government. Dan Tobias is a sophomore W
math and is a columnist for rhf

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1984The TartanPage 29
Resident to refuse federal money
eagan & Mondale will buy their nominations
By Stuart Shapiro
Honey may not make the world go 
ind, but it sure helps if youre running
| President.
e of the candidates have a lot more 
help than the others. And in an 
age in which television plays 
I such a pivotal role in the mold
ing of the public perceptions 
It ultimately determine who wins and 
i loses, that can make all the difference in 
| world.
ledia saturation is the name of the game, 
rough the magic of television, candidates 
ipete to firmly impress themselves upon 
I minds of the voters. When name recogon is everything, or at least close to it, the 
lense breadth and shallow depth of teleIon make it the perfect instrument. In the 
of televised political ads, its not the 
jjlity that counts so much as the quantity, 
fge quantities of television time require 
ie amounts of money. Thus, who has the
money often, although not always, says a 
great deal about who gets the brass ring.
President Reagan has no concerns over 
the solvency of his campaign. Reagan cam
paign officials, in fact, are seriously consid
ering refusal of federal matching funds until 
after the Republican national convention in 
August. Such a decision would certainly 
save the taxpayers some money, but thats 
hardly their principal motivation. If the 
Reagan organization does indeed forego fed
eral largesse, unlike the campaigns of 
Democratic contenders, the Reagan cam
paign will be unrestricted by the spending 
limits that go along with federal matching 
funds. As a result, Reagan strategists will be 
in a position to launch an unrivaled media 
blitz before the Democratic Presidential 
nominee is even chosen.
It appears increasingly likely that the 
Democratic nominee will, in fact, be Walter 
Mondale. Although not in Mr. Reagans
league, Mr. Mondale does not have many 
cash flow worries either. He raised $9.4 mil
lion last year and shows no sign of slowing 
down. If you want to see a lot  probably 
more than you could possibly want  of 
Fritz Mondale, just stay glued to your set.
You wont see as much of Gary Hart, Fritz 
Hollings, George McGovern, Reubin 
Askew, or Alan Cranston. The reason is 
reducible to a single word: money. The 
coffers of Glenn and Jackson are not exactly 
overflowing either, but the free publicity 
they get through the press compensates 
somewhat.
It seems paradoxical, however, that the 
candidates who need increased visibility 
most are those least able to afford it. At the 
same time, those who need it least, with 
President Reagan the prime example, are 
the ones who will continue to dominate.
Given the importance of media ad cam
paigns in our electoral process, for beter or
for worse, the disparities in visibility are 
disturbing. If television advertising is going 
to be one of the principal arenas in which 
political races will be decided, should the 
battle be waged through volume rather than 
content? Federal matching funds were 
intended to equalize the disparities to some 
extent. But as the cost of national political 
campaigns has increased, so have the rela
tive differences in the abilities of candidates 
to run successful campaigns  successful in 
the sense that voters receive sufficient input 
with which to construct a reasonable wellgrounded impression of the candidate. It 
seems clear that something more in the way 
of campaign financing reform is required. 
Campaigns wouldnt necessarily become 
less superficial, but at least theyd be more 
even-handed.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
applied history and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
yert: CMU to help pull area out of recession
I am optimistic about the future of Pitts
burgh and the future of the United States. 
Because of this belief, I have dedicated my 
life to education and will continue to do so 
as long as I have the opportunity.
I am certain that the long-run solutions to
tinued from page 27
of Fine Arts, and the College of 
[inanities and Social Sciences are making 
[jor cultural and economic contributions 
helping the environment become more
active.
etters:
olumnists made mistakes
|ton
lile I agree with much of what Stuart 
|piro, Wendy Scott, and Felicia Pratto 
in the 1/31/84 Tartan, I would like to 
ect a number of errors and misconcep[s. Mr. Shapiro says that the B-l bomber 
be obsolete before it enters the invenWhats new? Instant obsolescence is the 
lal situation in any rapidly changing 
1, such as computers. If you always wait 
[something better to come along, youll 
pr buy anything. Sooner or later you 
f>t replace your old equipment, and BI are already 22 years old. How many of 
drive 22-year-old cars? Besides, if you 
tit to talk about creeping militarism, why 
t you talk about the camouflage 
les that everyone seems to be wearing? 
\owhere does any government regulamention the use of ketchup as a vegetable. Government officials responsible for 
regulating the contents of school lunches 
have stated that this would be unacceptable. 
The ketchup-is-a-vegetable claim was first 
made by some House Democrats.
Wendy Scott mentions Cathy, the lady 
with elephantitis. Cathys problem is that 
she is mentally ill. She will not willingly 
undergo treatment. No amount of social ser
vices will improve her long-term situation 
unless force is used.
Felicia Pratto is incorrect when she states 
that we overthrew a government chosen by 
the people of Grenada. The government 
chosen by the people of Grenada was over
thrown a week or two prior to the invasion. 
Why do you think the Grenadians were so 
glad we showed up?
Hank Walker
the problems that face us as a city and a 
nation will be found through the applica
tion of knowledge. A major objective of our 
educational institutions in this country is 
the development of people who are capable 
of exercising knowledge about technologi
cal matters as well as about human prob
lems. Higher education must play its role in 
ensuring that there will be people capable of 
utilizing their minds so that our society can 
produce a good life for all its members. The 
founding fathers of this nation pledged their 
sacred honor to establish a free society. We 
can do no less in our efforts to preserve it.
Therefore, I pledge to you that the CamegieMellon faculty and Administration will do 
their part to see that higher education plays 
its role effectively. We must be undaunted by 
the failures around us, and we must have the 
courage to educate for a society based on 
knowledge. Without knowledge and rea
son, there can be no democracy; and without 
democracy, there can be no freedom as we 
know it. Such an alternative is unthinkable.
The above are excerpts of a speech deli
vered by Cyert to the Vectors of Pittsburgh. 
Cyert will be writing a monthly column for 
The Tartan.
ell Labs garner prize
|inued from page 5
awarding the prize, said Belle, the 
Iputer developed by Thompson and 
Idon, has maintained a Master rating 
r Paying 25 games consecutively in 
pan tournament competition.
U.S. Chess Federation recently 
|r ^le tide of National Master to Belle 
pchieving a Master rating.
umament chess players are rated by 
said Berliner, senior researcher in 
IPuter science at Carnegie-Mellon. RatI r<jnge from the lowest, Class E, up 
. Class A, Expert, National Master, 
ational Master and International 
^master.
laye>S in the world championship class 
jUallconsidered to be in the unofficial
me ag7e7DfEsUg 7fEEc SGLEP sGU RUEO I ut( i s are about three classes away from
championship level.
Berliner noted that in 1965, when com
puter scientists began to get really serious 
about the task of building a top level chess 
intelligence, the best computer played at 
the class C level, four levels below Belles 
current ranking.
Belles accomplishments rank it in the top 
10 percent of all tournament chess players in 
the world, he said.
Two other Fredkin prizes for chess 
remain to be claimed: a $10,000 prize for the 
first computer to achieve Grandmaster per
formance and a $100,000 prize for becoming 
world champion.
SHARE 
THE COS? 
OFUVMG
Give to the 
American Cancer Society
Come to the Bookstore for
Valentine's Day 
Cards & Gifts
Express a loving thought 
and make someone's day.
C
and ...
Don't: forget to take advantage of our
VALENTINE'S DAY 
FFvEE GIFT GIVEAWAY
-----------------------------------KEGISTEK TO WIN
 VALENTINE CANDY 
 COLORED TV 
DKAWING EE5MIAKY lOth
CMU BOOKSTORE

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
Housing
A furnished room, w/refrigerator, private bath, 
shower, entrance. Clean and convenient. Quiet, 
prefers a non-smoker. Squirrel Hill residential, 
second floor. 421-2564.
Services
Identify your organization with a custom printed 
T-shirt or jersey. We silk-screen print shirts for 
the campus community. Call the T-shirt Com
pany at 578-3535 and speak to John for details. 
Income tax returns prepared by professional, 
reasonable. Call for an appointment 261-1860 or 
421-6932.
Flying Fingers Word Processing. Business/aca
demic papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Editing 
included. Erika Van Sickel 731-8978.
Moving? We go in the snow. Call Second Mile 
Light Hauling, ask for Vince. 231-2766.
quality essays of 5,000 words or less. Topic: The 
Right to Life as a Civil Right. Prizes of $100, $75, 
and $50 awarded. Deadline: Feb. 18, 1984. Write 
to Right to Life Essay Contest, c/ o CMU Assoc. 
For Life, Box 11, Baker Hall P.O., Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213, for more information.
another great A Phi O service.
Singing Valentines: Delivered Feb. 14 by S.A.I. 
(Music Fraternity). Orders can be placed on Wed. 
Feb. 8 from 7-10 p.m. at Morrisons, Thu. Feb. 9, 
4:30-7 p.m. Morewood Cafeteria, and Fri. Feb. 10 
at Skibo Information Desk. Cost is $1.00.
For Sale/Wanted General
Clubs
There will be a meeting of Tau Beta Pi, Tuesday, 
January 31, 9 p.m., Highlander Room.
Explorers Club Kayaking, Cross-Country Ski
ing, and Hiking Trips. Meetings on Thursdays, 
6:30 Skibo Room 12.
Care about the right to life? Like to get involved? 
Join the CMU Association for Life. Call Terry 
Turton at x4826 or Pat Falco at x8618 for more 
information. Remember: Rest Easy, Youve 
Already Been Born. 
AIESEC, the International Association of Stu
dents in Economics and Business Management, 
will hold its weekly meeting, Wednesday at 4:30 
in Skibo Room 11. Students of all majors are 
invited to participate in AIESECs international 
exchange and management development 
programs.
Right to life essay contest; We are looking for top
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the 
U.S. Government? Get the facts today! Call (312) 
742-1142 Ext. 3401-A.
For sale: Gibson Electric Guitar, Pequey Ampli
fier, and two distortion boxes. Great Condition, 
$400.00 for all. Kathy Molisky 578-4434.
For sale: two tickets, Leontyne Price concert, 
March 10. Seats are fourth row orchestra. $70.00. 
Call Stefan Brown 578-8678.
Speaker Bargain!! Powerful, efficient custombuilt 3-way stereo speakers. $175/pair or best 
offer. Call 422-7233 evenings.
WANTED: Success-oriented, self-motivated 
individual to work 2-4 hours per week placing 
and filling posters on campus. Earn $500-plus 
each school year. 1-800-243-6679.
DESPERATE!! Anyone with Tuesday Neil Dia
mond tickets whos willing to trade for two Wed
nesday tickets, please call 521-5455, leave 
message, Debbie.
Valentine's Day
Valentines Day Can</ Sale by SARC. Feb. 6-10, 
13-14. Bookstore Daily. Moiewood and Skibo 
4:30-7.
Stuffed Sweethearts. Tired of buying the same 
old candy or flowers? This Valentines Day send 
that special someone a stuffed sweetheart. For a 
small price, ranging from $1.50 to $4.00, a stuffed 
animal will be delivered to your sweetheart on 
February 14. Theres even a small red heart so you 
can include a personal message. There will be 
sign-up tables in Morewood Gardens, Skibo, and 
Baker Hall on February 8,9, and 10. All proceeds 
will benefit charity. And dont forget this is
Wanderlust5 Summer travel plans? Try' Youth 
Hostels this year! Over 300 in USA, with 5000 
worldwide. Individual travel or group trips avail
able., Membership $10 for under 18s, $20 for 
those over 18. For information, brochures write 
A.Y.H. Hostels, 6300 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15232.
ATTENTION, CONSERVATIVES! If you are
a conservative with an interest in increasing your 
political involvement and influmece, write us. 
Well send you free information packets on for
eign policy, economic and social issues and a free 
Activist kit. Tell us your past experience as a 
conservative activist to qualify for job bank and 
training seminar information. Write The 
National Center for Public Policy Research, 214 
Massachusetts Ave. N.E., Suite 580, Washington, 
DC 20002.Attention CMU Sunbathers! Surfs up but our
prices arent! From just $109  spend 7 fun-filled 
days in sunny Florida. Call for yourself or organ
ize a small group and travel FREE! Great for 
dubs, too! Call LUV TOURS 800-368-2006, ask 
for Annette.
Academic Bag Ladies: over 25, in school, new 
career. Meet 12-1 p.m., Lutheran Center, 4515 
Forbes. Call 682-6886 for information.
The Sisters of Kappa Alpha Theta proudly 
announce their 10 new pledges: Libby Bama, 
Donna Dietz, Elizabeth Fox, Helen Garey, 
Paulette Hebert, Alison Himel, Traci Jemigan, 
Karin Johnson, Jill Pascoe, and Dana 
Poffenberger.
Anthony Penna, associate dean of H&SS, will 
have open office hours for students between 2 and
5 p.m. every Wednesday. Students who wish to
meet with Dr. Penna should telephone his 
578-2830, to set up an appointment. 
President Richard M. Cyert will have open 
hours.for students, between 3 and 5 p rn 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, Febn 
Students who wish to meet with the prea 
should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set 
appointment.
A service to honor the memory of Dr. 
Tuma, Professor of Electrical 8c Computer! 
neering who died on January 18, will be hel 
the Wherett Room, Skibo, on Wednesday Frf 
ary 8 at 4 p.m.
The European Studies Program is ple
announce an essay competition, for best i 
graduate essay on any aspect of European 
ture, history, or contemporary society, pj 
$150. Essay should be 15-25 pages in length d 
November 9, 1984. Essays may be based one
papers, but should normally be revised 
reworked before submission. Essays, and 
queries, should be directed to Peter N. Ste 
BH 242B.
La Table Franaise, French language 
Tuesdays, noon. Morewood Dining RoomJ 
dents, faculty, staff welcome. Sponsored bvf 
pean Studies and Modem Language Pro 
Deutscher Stammtisch, German language t 
Thursdays, noon. Morewood Dining Roomi 
dents, faculty, staff welcome. Sponsored by! 
pean Studies and Modem Language Pro 
Catholic Students: Join the Oratory Wedn 
night group each week for Mass (at 6 p.m.),ai 
dinner and a discussion/fellowship. Everya 
welcome. Meet at Tech House at 5:30 otj 
Morewood Gardens entrance at 5:45 for the J 
up. Call Andy at 621-2911 for more infon 
Catholic Mass Schedule. Sunday mass in 1 
Multipurpose Room, at 7 p.m. Saturday! 
10:30 a.m. Sunday. Daily mass in Skibo I 
39, Monday-Friday at 12:30 p.m. 
Mondays are special! Every Monday night| 
8-9, in Room 39, Skibo, an Informal BibleJ 
cussion group meets to talk about Gods Wd 
it relates to campus life. Everyone is welci 
participate in this time of learning and !eS 
ship.
Don't let the little guys fool you!
Youve tried the rest . . . Now try the BEST!
^ * jjc jc jc jc jcCAPRIPIZZA
For FRIENDLY 
service and 
DELICIOUS food
We use TRUE 
MOZARELLA cheese DO OTHERS?
Mon. - Sat. 5 - 2 a.m. 
Sundays 3-2 a.m.
ramto 10 CUT 
PZZA ONly
$>.50
Plus 2 FREE liters of Pepsi 
FREE delivery 7 days a week
3415 Forbes Ave., Oakland tele: 681 -2202, 2203
This price for lunch/dinner Eat in or order out.

---------------------------------------------------

by Mark LevineOE FRESHMAN
THtrvf\ . /This . 
Got YZ ^ is*SUlPlMb'\^IU ONE 
USTEO \JSS\ CLASS AS 1OIN6 I CAN
A 6*CfttorrHr\ 1523couKsfy * V
I NEXT) rMe
f NX'COWtf  
ASTINO?
Actually MuroPtoa Have to
OW5PTAm*.A fE>N 
MfttfcS...
take rr 
ovi.THt
SttWWU
APT. KRON KITE AND REXby John Malley
WELL ILL ...
DO YOU KNOW WHERE. 
WE ARE, REX?!WEAN HALL'
UNNER* 37, AT LAST, ACCORD\ 
TO MY MIN/COMP. LET S SEE -UH, * 
SMALL BACKWATER. W*lDCALLED 
EARTH, A/AT/ON/ US.A., &CT[^?.*.'
SU6RE6-ION OF SUPPOSED CITY
i piTTSBMM, EWC^
^BIB^^yesT^sthe 
^wT /ml I natives say UN,
! /irl * " "
( YOU KNOW WHAT, f
rex? you are Ri*&C
THERE ARE VEFlNlTElX 
T[^?. ' /mlV[&E 
VtAMPERiNG HERE-----
'iiM. CANT ' \
Find a V[.&[?^F N c
IN MY MlNICOHP..........
k/HAT EXACTLY IS I HPA "WFAN', CfTTAIH? LI
/Art, CAPTAR.' 5/t; S^CCOKOINtT0 
MINI COMP, THE TAMPEKiNfr 
/S OR HAS BEEN LOCAL 
.To TH/5 AREA if .
UNIVERSE 37' HOME! JC WAS BW ON EARTH, ALMOST GRADUATED F*<>M TH/5 PLACE, Bur THEN Z JOINED THE PWfiCL  8CY I REHEM8ER....
^ CALLED 
CARNE&lE -
Mellon X?[fm/.[&EA 
IHMOP,
COME ON, REX 
HERE, IN OLD 
SCIENCE HALL 
HAH .'
THECAPTAIKJ 
AUD REX FINALLY 
ARKWE.......r NO THE 
ENTIRE 
CAhPt/5,L si r y
IMWHILEf VENGENCE, KILGOR! REVENGE? ^ 
KKOW KITE AND THAT STUPID RABBIT 
HAVE FOR TOO LONG /NTERFEKED IN 
HY PLANS! XT 15 FITTING THAT 
I WRECK KITE'S NOME UAWfRsE... 1V And Him As well f
X GUARANTEE TO BURDEN THIS N 
L/NIVCRSE WITH A COMPUTER IN EVERY 
ROOM( NOOK AND CORHER 
AND TO ELIMINATE. CAPTXN KRON KITE
r LOOK AT THEM DOWN THERE. 
VAPID. BOV/NE. ACCEPTING-. 
NUMB. EAST PICKINGS? 
WHAT A PLACE TO EXPLOIT? 
LITTLE VO THEY SUSPECT 
| THE PART THEY PlAf W 
I MAGN/F/CENT, (9ws.FL aG.FtYEAH.
RIGHT.
AH! EXCELLENT! 
KRON KITE IS HERE 
AT LASTf EXACTLYAS X PLANNED 5 OH, 
I'M SO INTELLIGENT 
I AMAZE MYSELF?
OR MY NAME ISN'T
bedncu nk
iN DEXTER
YU SMCLL SMCTH/flS 
UHNV M HCR?X tcMEN (T WA&M'r
secbyyy7 Cb.6%dC 
TMy P*D THAT
Qemznre/

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
Theater
Through Feb. 12 K2 by Patrick Meyers. Pgh. 
Public Theater, Allegheny Square, North Side. 
Tue.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 7 p.m.; Thu., Sat. & Sun. 2 
p.m. 321-9800.
Through Feb. 12 American Buffalo by David 
Mamet. The Playhouse Theatre Company, Pgh. 
Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. Thu.-SaL 8 
p.m.; Sun. 2:30 p.m. 621-4445.
Through Feb. 19 Da by Hugh Leonard. Pgh. 
Laboratory Theatre, 420 N. Craig St., Oakland. 
Thu.-Sun 8:15 p.m.; Sun. 2:30 p.m. 621-2876. 
Feb. 3-18 Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mammas Hung 
You in the Closet and Pm Feeling So Sad by 
Arthur Kopit. Theatre in the Square, Wilkins 
School Community Center, Charleston 8c S. 
Braddock Aves., Regent Square. Fri. 8c Sat. 8 
p.m.; Sun. 2 p.m. 241-7474.
Films
Through Feb. 12 The Reflecting Pool, col
lected works by Bill Viola. Video Exhibition 
Room, Carnegie Museum of Art, Forbes Ave., 
Oakland.
Feb. 7 Greece (Travel Adventure Series). Carne
gie Music Hall, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 1 & 7 
p.m.
Feb. 7 "Under Milkwood with Peter OToole, 
Richard Burton 8c Elizabeth Taylor (UK 1971). 
Pgh. Playhouse, Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 
p.m.
Feb. 8 The African Queen with Humphrey 
Bogart 8c Katherine Hepburn (1951). Pgh. Play
house, Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. 
Feb. 9 A Man and a Woman with Anouk 
Aimee (France 1966). Pgh. Playhouse, Craft Ave., 
Oakland. 7:30 & 9:30 p.m.
Feb. 9 Weekend by Jean-Luc Godard (France 
1968). Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 & 10 p.m.
Feb. 10 Merry Christmas Mr. Lawrence with 
David Bowie (Japan 1983). Pgh. Playhouse, Craft 
Ave., Oakland. 7:30, 9:40 8c 11:50 p.m.
Feb. 10 First Blood with Sylvester Stallone
(1982). Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 10 p.m.
Feb. 10 The Virgin Spring by Ingmar Berg
man (Sweden 1960). English subtitles. Carnegie 
Lecture Hall, Schenley Park Dr., Oakland. 8 p.m. 
Feb. 10 & 11 Multiple Maniacs with Divine 
(1970) 8c Color Me Shameless by George 
Kuchar (1967). Pgh. Film-Makers, 205 Oakland 
Ave., Oakland. Fri. 8c Sat. 8 8c 10:15 p.m. 681 - 
5449.
Feb. 11 Dead Zone with Christopher Walken 8c 
Brooke Adams (1983), Pgh. Playhouse, Craft 
Ave., Oakland. 7:30, 9:30 8c 11:30 p.m.
Feb. 11 The Hunger with Catherine Deneuve, 
David Bowie 8c Susan Sarandon (UK 1983). 
Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 10 p.m.
Feb. 11 A Clockwork Orange with Malcolm 
McDowell, by Stanley Kubrick (UK 1971). 
Museum of Art Theater, Carnegie Institute, 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m.
Feb. 12 Le Gai Savoir by Jean-Luc Godard 
(1968). Pgh. Film-Makers, 205 Oakland Ave., 
Oakland. 2 8c 8 p.m. 681-5449.
Feb. 12 The Holy Land: In the Fottsteps of 
Abraham (Travel Adventure Series). Carnegie 
Music Hall, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 2:30 p.m. 
Feb. 12 All About Eve with Bette Davis (1949). 
Pgh. Playhouse, Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:50 
p.m.
Feb. 13 Lets Spend the Night Together with 
the Rolling Stones (1982). Pgh. Playhouse, Craft 
Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m.
Feb. 16 Bremer Freiheit by Rainer Wemer Fass
binder (Germany). English subtides. Baker Hall 
231. 7 p.m.
March 29 Stunde Null by Edgar Reiz (Ger
many). English subtitles. Baker Hall 231. 7 p.m.
Exhibits
Through Feb. 11 Fine Contemporary Quilts. 
The City Quilt Shop, 311 S. Craig St., Oakland. 
683-9111.
Through Feb. 19 Highlights from the Photo
graphy Collection. Gallery 10, Carnegie Insti
tute, Forbes Ave., Oakland. Tue.'-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 
p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3283.
Through Feb. 24 Flora Portrayed: Classics of
 CLOTHIERMOUSfT^
NKY DUDS FOR COOL CATS 
284 MORE WOOD 681-9387 
MON/FR112*6 SAT 11-6
Counseling and Student Development Center 
presents WORKSHOPS on: 
-Eating behaviors: Mon., Feb. 13-Mar. 5; 4-5:00prn 
-Getting Close: A Look at Intimate Relationships
Thurs., Feb. 9-23; 4-5:30 pm 
-Effective Study Skills: Thur., Feb. 9-23; 4-5:30 pm 
-Test Anxiety: Wed., Feb. 15,22, 4-5:30 pm
To register, call 578-2922
* Division of Student Affairs
Botanical Art from the Hunt Institute Collec
tion. Hunt Institute for Botanical Documenta
tion, Penthouse, Hunt Library. Mon.-Fri. 8:30 
a.m.-noon 8c 1-5 p.m.
Through Feb. 26 Richard Devlin. Associated 
Artists of Pgh. Gallery, Pgh. Center for the Arts, 
Fifth 8c Shady Aves., Shadyside.
Through Feb. 26 Miniature Railroad and Vil
lage. Buhl Science Center, Allegheny Square, 
North Side. Mon.-Fri. 1-5 p.m.; Thu. 8c Fri. 6:30- 
9:30 p.m.; Sat. 10 a.m.-9:30 p.m.; Sun. 1-9:30 p.m. 
321-4302.
Through Feb. 26 Italian Portrait Drawings 
from North American Collections. Univ. Art 
Gallery, Frick Fine Arts Bldg., Oakland. Tue.- 
Sat 10 a.m.-4 p.m.; Sun. 2-5 p.m. 624-4118. 
Through Feb. 29 Gail Kaplan (photogrpahy), 
Pgh. Film-Makers, 205 Oakland Ave., Oakland. 
681-5449.
Through Mar.l Audrey Flack. Hewlett Gallery, 
CFA. Mon.-Fri. 11 a.m.-4 p.m.; Sat. noon-4 p.m.; 
Sun. 1-4 p.m.
Through Mar. 18 Susan Rothenburg. Con
temporary paintings. Gallery D, Carnegie 
Museum of Art, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3212. 
Through Apr. 21 Fairfield Porter (1907-1975): 
Realist Painter in an Age of Abstraction. Galler
ies 12 8c B, Carnegie Museum of Art, Forbes Ave., 
Oakland.
Through Apr. 21 Japanese Prints by Utagawa 
Kunisasa I (Toyokuni III) 1786-1865. Gallery D, 
Carnegie Museum of Art, Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
Feb. 12-Mar. 11 David Aschkenas, Kenneth 
Batista, Ron Bennett, Lillian Kefalos, 8c Philip 
Rostek. Pgh. Plan for Art, 407 S. Craig St., Oak
land. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m.
683-7600.
Feb. 8 Graduate Recital: Sangwon Shinn 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m. 
Feb. 9 & 10 Pgh. Symphony Orche$n 
Andre Previn (conductor) & Cecile Lic^ 
ist). Including Mozarts Symphony 
E-flat major 8c Saint-Sans Piano Q, 
No. 2 in G minor. Heinz Hall, pei. 
Downtown. Thu. 8 p.m.; Fri. 8:30 p.tn % 
Feb. 12 All-American Composer's Conm 
ductor Grover Wilkins. Including CW 
Symphony No. 2 8c Scott Joplins 
Black Book. Univ. of Pgh. Chorus 8c 0$ 
Wm. PittUnion Audit. 4 p.m. 624-4126 
Feb. 12 The Rogeri Trio: Richard You, 
lin), Carter Brey (cello) 8c Barabara ty, 
(piano). Frick Art Museum, 7227 ReynoJ 
p.m. 371-7766.
Feb. 12 Romanza String Quartet. Galley 
Center for the Arts, Fifth 8c Shady Aves., 
side. 3:30 p.m.
Feb. 12 Junior Recital: Liane EGfg 
horn). Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.r
Dance
Feb. 11-12 Merce Cunningham DanceC 
Pgh. Dance Council, Heinz Hall, Pens 
Downtown. Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 2 p.m. 35]
Sports
Music
Feb. 7 An Evening of New Music conductor 
David Stock. Pgh. New Music Ensemble, Frick 
Fine Arts Audit., Oakland. 8:30 p.m.
Feb. 7 Student Recital: Charles Cudney (eupho
nium). Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m.
Feb. 7 & 8 Pgh. Chamber Music Concert. Laughlin Music Center, Chatham Coll. 8 p.m. 682- 
1746.
Feb. 8 FENCING. CMU vs. Indiana Unii 
tie Hall, Skibo Gym. 5:30 p.m.
Feb. 8 SWIMMING. CMU vs. Betham 
Francis Colleges. Skibo Gym Pool. 
Feb. 8 HOCKEY. Penguins vs. Buffala 
Arena, Downtown. 7:30 p.m. 642- 
Feb. 10 SOCCER. Spirit vs. Cleveland 
Arena, Downtown. 8 p.m. 642-2062. 
Feb. 11 HOCKEY. Penguins vs. New 
Civic Arena, Downtown. 8 p.m. 642-! 
Feb. 11 FENCING. Intercollegiate To 
Thistle Hall, SKibo Gym. 10 a.m.
Feb. 11 SWIMMING. CMU vs. John 
Univ. 8c Slippery Rock Coll. Skibo Gym 
p.m.
Feb. 12 SOCCER. Spirit vs. Los Anj 
Arena, Downtown. 2 p.m. 642-2062.
Across
I. first man 
5. fishing motion
9. tortured madam
12. towards
13. opera solo
14. Brian of music
15. Bogart film
18. orderly
19. teenage problem
20. __ up ;
goofed
23. snake
24. Orient direction
25. no
27. tennis star
28. oft borrowed ?
29. German name
33. looser
34. not yet known;* 
(abbr)
35. close
37. bakers goods
39. part
43. mark
44. airport
50. anger
51. damn! (si)
52. Shah's old home
53. Lysergic Acid
54. entertainer Bob
55. fix
Down1. toothpaste
2. genetic material
3. Ayn Rand novel
4. grunt
5. checked out
6. region
7. weed through
8. Chinese pagoda
9. early civilization
10. at once *
II. painter
16. direction
17. Loas native
20. nasty
21. place carefully
22. fast; holding
' 39
i i i i i i i___i___i____i___i  i___
43 44 45;
50W'rrrm
531 1
52
55
23. by and __
25. snag
26. Mid-Eastern nati
28. Spielberg hit
29. single
30. british break
31. wee bit
32. companions of
36. blood sucker
38. old measurement
39. Fremen Naib * j
40. hearing aids
41. Roman emperor
42. snag
45. open (poetic)
46. edge
47. refinery need
48. woman's compand
49. finis

---------------------------------------------------

VOLUME 5NUMBER 3

---------------------------------------------------

PAGES 4,5,6,7 PAGE 8
RABBIT SUMMER MOTHERING
Written by Kyle Fisher 
Designed by Josh Mutchnick
Written by Keith Recker 
Designed by Jeff Pacione

---------------------------------------------------

PAGES 12.13 
THANKSGIVING 
EASTER POEM
Written by Alice Alfonsi 
Designed by Jocelyn Bahr
PAGES 10,11
THE STARS ON THE FLAG 
BOY WITH THE BLACK BOOTS II
Written by Maria Barbuta 
Designed by Elayne Prince
PAGES 14,15,16 
DRAGON
Written by Catherine M McCafferty 
Designed by Lisa Chimento

---------------------------------------------------

Rabbit Summer
by Kyle Fisher

---------------------------------------------------

r
5
Sometimes she thinks shes healing nicely. Making the 
[into ail amusing story that goes over well at cocktail 
fcs She goes to parties often. Or bars, more often. And 
once in a while she stays long enough to let someone 
something of herself.
I She may tell them about her job, her apartment, her last 
ess trip. She may tell them about her flying lessons or 
Idea for a pornographic screenplay. She may tell them 
he likes to suck the pimentos out of olives before she 
|he green part.
She may answer their questions for spite or just to tease 
and see what they will say to try to talk her into bed. 
times they miss and she gets to go home. Other times 
lucks and forgets. But sometimes they get around to 
g about her family and then she talks about her sister. 
"And is your sister as pretty as you?
"I cant give you a simple answer to that question. 
Sometimes, then, they smell the blood and ask, "Let me 
3 this way: If you had to fix your sister up with a date, 
much trouble would you have?
And if she hates herself enough that night, shell say, 
me put it this way: Id never have to fix up my little
And thats when she remembers the rabbit summer.
One summer, the sisters decided to patch things up. 
decided to ignore the past and all the years of regretting 
|d never been close. They decided to split a gram and go 
iio for a big week-end party and try to forget the ugly
on|-Ago.
| Of course, there was a boy. Theres always a boy in a 
ton like this. A story of sisters and rabbits. And this boy was 
Hy worth the tremendous amount of attention that was 
Hed upon him by the two sisters.
But, worthy or not, he received their interest grandly. 
Kt, it seemed to let him rise, for a time, out of the simple 
Hi he had built for himself with his eager veins and willful 
gnol ance.
I Lets be clear about this romantic target: the boy was an
 A lover of laziness and good times. A disciple of the
 'alks and parking lots who grew up sniffing glue and 
g acid and watching his friends vomit their futures onto
heir tennis shoes.
H At fifteen, he discovered his manhood in poppingludes 
I ucking girls. By twenty, he found a way to escape the 
I realm of cheap drugs and cheaper lays. He began 
|ng nurses, stealing scripts and shooting.
And that, very simply, is the story of the boy.
But, needlemarks aside, dimples and strong shoulders
 >metimes hard to resist. And spoiled girls can sometimes 
I 'e that scars are truly medals of valor and not simply 
I f self-indulgence. Especially when family battle lines 
Jrawn across their furrowed plains.
The two sisters had noticed this young warrior and each
I11 him some dark hint of excitement. They both wanted 
(3ut neither, of course, wanted to share.
The younger sister thought about the boy and his 
Itor eyes. She and the boy had been studying each other
 )me t*meThey circled and sized each other up like 
I y matched cats. Usually, when the boy looked at her, he 
H toiled and his eyes were red and sullen, almost too hard
at. But even then, his gaze was powerful and she 
I feel like she was standing before him, naked and wet.
 e that he knew her already, as surely and completely as 
W ^'s 0Wn limits. Shed catch his eyes upon her and
would roll and grow hot. 
e older sister had noticed the boy and her younger 
joeing each other. She could feel their desire all around 
e strength of her attraction frightened her, but it 
| e ^er> too. She began to listen to the boy and as she 
know him, she felt her confidence slip away. Every 
le told her about cheating junkies, every memory of 
"ho young and stupid, every boast of beating up 
s an<! running from cops and skipping probation court,
istet
every word that dripped from his grinning mouth made her 
lose hope because she couldnt stop wanting to hear more.
Now, this boy was no fool. He liked both sisters. They 
were fine to look at, each in her own way. And they promised 
no disappointments under the sheets. But one sister had 
money and one sister had none. One sister liked to listen to 
him and the other had heard it all before.
He went for the money.
Thats how the older sister won the first, shallow vic
tory. At first it was just easy fucking. The more she gave to 
him the less he wanted, but slowly and grudgingly, they came 
to like one another. She was warmed by this, but she knew 
she didnt have her younger sisters spell over men. She had 
seen her sister whisk other boys away from their lovers with 
swift assurance. Sometimes she would return them, eventu
ally, but even then, her victory was complete. That was her 
sisters awesome strength: she could get boys to fuck her and 
still want more.
The older sister thought about this for some time. 
Then, one day, she read a story in the newspaper. A group of 
farmers in Iowa were going to get together to wipe out some 
rabbits that were destroying their crops. Two hundred 
fathers and sons were planning to spend the weekend club
bing a few thousand rabbits to death.
The story triggered something in the older sister. While 
she was wondering about the rabbits, she suddenly realized it 
was time to work on her sister. She could not control her 
sisters passions, but perhaps she could create new alliances. 
She decided to insinuate herself behind enemy lines. And 
that was how the older sister came to be on her way to a big 
party in Ohio on the same weekend when thousands of 
rabbits were destined to die in Iowa. She bought a gram of 
coke for the party and that is how the younger sister came to 
be riding at her side. And, of course, the boy would be there, 
too.
Alone together, a familiar silence fell between them. 
They were relieved to find the keg and company.
"Hold everything, guys. We dont care what all you 
men are so busy talking about. We need a drink.
"For you two, anything.
"How bout some Jack Daniels to wash down the beer? 
"Not for me. Genesee is fine.
"Same here. Cant get drunk before midnight.
"So what were you laughing at before? We almost 
hated to interrupt.
"Oh, Paul here was just telling us about the dreaded 
Coyote-ugly.
"Oh, yeah? Whats that?
"OK, its like this. Its like, you wake up in the morning, 
you know, and theres this chick lying next to you and shes 
got her head lying on your arm, right? And its all numb and 
everything and shes out. I mean, out, gone, dead to the 
world. And her hairs all over her face and you dont even 
know who the fuck it is. And youre half-scared to even find 
out, you know? Oh God, this is so funny ...
"I think were going to regret this.
"No, no its funny as hell. OK, so theres this chick. And 
you finally scrape some of the hair off her face and, fuck, if 
she isnt the ugliest dog youve ever seen. I mean, you cant 
even believe you just fucked her that night or whatever. And 
now shes lying on your arm and you got to go take a piss and 
just get out of there or something. But you dont want to talk 
to her or anything so youre stuck. You dont know what to 
do, but you know youd rather chew your own arm off than 
wake up this dog. And thats when youve done a coyoteuglyThe two sisters grinned through the laughter, but when 
the younger sister bent her head to her beer, her eyes slid 
over the top to study the story-teller and she remembered 
how she had put him down good at the bar last week. The
The party was in full swing when the sisters arrived. 
They walked in laughing at some secret coke joke and 
everyone noticed their mood. It was easy to get help setting 
up their tent and sleeping bags.
"If I help you get this set up, can I join you two 
tonight?
"No, no, its just the two sisters in here tonight. 
"Maybe some other time. This is our ni^it.
They had the same promising smile and small, eager 
breasts, but to look at them, hardly anyone guessed they 
were sisters and no one took them to be friends. As they went 
back inside the house, they mentally checked off which guys 
they had slept with and which ones they could get if they 
wanted to. It put things in perspective, each feeling more 
sure of herself in front of the other.
older sister leaned over to pour herself another and 
wondered if anyone had ever thought she was a coyote-ugly.
She wandered away from the keg for a while, always 
circling away from where her younger sister held court. But 
soon she was back at the beer. She kept her cup full and 
watched her sister, a splash of color across the room, as she 
listened to some guy, the host of the party. Her mouth was 
parted, so ready to smile as she leaned into the conversation, 
nodding her head to encourage his words, her eyes never 
leaving his except to wander to his mouth. She realized her 
sister was stunning.
Suddenly, the boy was behind her, claiming her 
attention. Pushing back against him, she said, "She really is 
something. You know, little sister over there.

---------------------------------------------------

\6
he was fucking her, he hadnt fucked her sister. Bee; 
he did, he wouldnt want her anymore. And no matter 
easy she made it, she knew hed never come back.
When the morning came, shed reach around hi 
pull her naked belly close to feel his body against hers, 
rest her hand on his flat stomach and wait for him 
up. First, shed feel his hand move to cover hers, his 
fingers wrapping around her hand and wrist. Then hi 
her hand down his body until she held his morning erj 
thick and trembling. Hed want her to stroke it a while, 
hed turn to her, breathing against her neck, and wlii 
"Blow me.
He followed hastare. "Uh huh. You two staying here 
tonight?
"Yeah. We brought a tent. Its set up outside already. 
"Mind if I stay with you two?
She turned to look at him over her shoulder, but didnt 
say a word, wondering how drunk he must be to ask.
He laughed. "OK forget it. Just thought Id give it a try. 
Want to do a shot?
She accepted the bottle and leaned back against him to 
let the liquor run down her throat. She didnt like scotch, but 
it was all he drank.
"I read this weird story today. Her voice sounded tired 
after the shot. "About these rabbits. There people are going 
to club all these rabbits to death because theyre eating the 
dandelions or something.
She felt him laugh, once, and reach for the bottle. 
"Anyway, I was just thinking, you know, whats going 
to happen? I mean, what, after you smash the first bunny 
head, what do the rest do? Do they just lie there or run 
around or what?
"You really do talk about some weird shit.
"Sorry. What do you want to talk about? 
"I dont want to talk about anything. This is supposed 
to be a party. Fun, you know?
"Well, you find lots to talk about with my sister, dont 
you? What, is that all weird shit too?
He stepped away from her to light a cigarette. He 
squinted at her, pinning her down. "You really have a hang
up about your sister, dont you?
She walked away and into the bathroom. To be alone 
and do a line and do some thinking. It always scared her 
when he said something that made sense. He seemed to be 
able to read her weaknesses so easily. She doubted he saw 
anything else about her as clearly.
Coming out of the bathroom, she saw her sister m 
towards her, smiling. 
rrLets do a line.
"I just did some.
"Great, then its my turn anyway.
"Oh God, here comes Brian. Sloshed as usual.' 
Ive never seen such a happy drunk.
"Christ, I thought you were going to cut it off.
He had told her that in bed one time. They didnt fuck 
around unless one of them was drunk, but they got drunk a 
lot.
Their sex didnt last very long after their first time 
together. But she liked it when he passed out next to her in 
her bed. She knew she shouldnt cling to him, but whenever 
she thought of her sister, she could do nothing else.
At night, shed fall asleep holding his arms around her 
waist, her back tucked against his chest. Later, shed wake up 
to find him turned away from her, cradling his pillow and 
enjoying his dreams alone. Shed lie there staring at his back, 
at the wide curve of his shoulder. Sometimes shed think 
about what they had done together earlier. She didnt really 
care if it was good for her or not. She just knew that as long as

---------------------------------------------------

"Its like his bones all turn to jelly. He just sort of oozes 
from female to female.
"Amazing what booze can do for a guys ego.
"I wonder who hell hit on first.
"Hes spotted us. Oh no. Hes slithering our way. 
"Hi, Brian.
"Hi, Brian.
"Hi girls. Enjoying the party?
"Sure thing. Oops. Uh, you sort of got me with that 
drink there, Brian. Try to hold it up straight. Yeah, like
that."Uh, I just wanted to ask you two something. But, now 
think I forgot.
Brian stood there for a minute, gazing from one breast
o another to another to another.
"Oh yeah, you two want to do some lines?
The sisters smiled at each other.
She tound herself in front of the bathroom mirror, 
cutting her last lines, and wondering what happened to her 
during those thirty seconds. She bent down to snort up the 
coke. It didnt even bite now, just ran down her throat as she 
straightened up. She saw her sister in the mirror with her. 
"Was it fun?
"What do you mean?
"Kissing him. Was it fun?
The younger sister looked down, shaking her head as if 
at a rude child. "I dont know why youre acting like this. It 
was no big deal.
She looked up and they locked eyes in the mirror. Then 
she took out a brush and ran it through her hair, over and 
over. The other sister watched her, marking how small her 
throat was, how the veins showed on her jaw as she bent her 
neck to brush her hair.
"I dont want to hear it. Dont give me any shit. 
"Oh, no. Its not like that. Its about our tent. You 
know, our double-sister-tent out on the lawn? She 
swallowed a hiccup and warned herself to be careful. His eyes 
were red. She looked down. "We were talking and we were 
just wondering if you wanted, well, if you wanted, you could 
sleep with us.
She looked up to see if he was buying it. She leaned 
towards him. "You know, the three of us. Lets make this 
party special. You. And me. And her.
For an instant, she wished she could snatch the words 
back, but he was already saying, "Is she there now?
She hid her face against his neck and nodded.
"Lets go, then.
When she turned to lead him away, she started to 
tremble. Every step in the dark made her more sick. Once, 
she slipped on the wet grass. She fell down heavily and was
Photos Qjurtesy of Lee Friedlandar
Much later, she found herself alone again. In theX
athroom again. She realized she was spending a lot of time 
1 there. Snorting and pissing. Pissing and snorting. She 
rinned. She was plastered. It was hard to concentrate on
uch else.
When she walked back into the darkness of the party, 
he wasnt surpised to see her younger sister. And the boy. AtE
fst, she was only surprised that she could be quiet. She 
ready knew how his arms would look around her sister s 
st, how their mouths would move slowly together, how 
er sisters hand would reach up to pull at his hair, just like 
I he did sometimes. And how they would draw apart, so
I lwly, and turn, together, and see her standing there
I etching them.
She wandered away. The beer was wearing off. I ime for 
11()re. She remembered something an old boyfriend had told 
a long time ago. "When your sister walks into a room, for 
first thirty seconds, every man in there is going to want to 
her. Thats just the way it is. But after that first thirty 
cnds, some of us will change our minds. He smiled and 
Ssed her then, murmuring into her mouth, "But you d 
nier get used to that first thirty seconds.
When her sister spoke, putting her brush away and 
straightening up to meet her eyes, it startled her. "Anyway, 
he doesnt belong to you, you know.
Then the younger sister was gone. The other sister 
wondered if the boy would taste different now.
She walked out of the bathroom with a carefullyplanned smile. She passed her younger sister, still 
downstairs, talking to the host again. She raised her beer in 
salute and went upstairs where she knew shed find the boy 
slouched over his scotch.
She walked up to him, until her body pressed against his 
and he had to look at her.
"Hi.
"Christ, I need a place to crash.
"I just had a very interesting conversation with my 
little sister.
glad she could just lie there. But he helped her up. Gently. 
Later, she would remember how gentle he was. He set her on 
her feet and they went on. When they came to the empty 
tent, she could do nothing.
He was the one that zipped the tent open and got down, 
pushing her ahead of him as they crawled in. She waited on 
her hands and knees, not knowing how she would explain. 
But he didnt ask any questions. He laid down and looked at 
her. She didnt move. Then he sighed and closed his eyes.
She curled up as far away from him as she could get. 
Her heart was still pounding, but she was too dried out to cry. 
Her mouth made ugly shapes and she rolled towards the 
nylon wall of the tent. She breathed in its musty smell until 
the booze put her to sleep.
In the morning, she heard him rustle awake and sit up 
on one elbow to look at her face. She lay still until he got up 
and left the tent. Only then did she open her eyes to watch 
the morning light filter through the orange canvas about her. 
She thought about the rabbits being beaten in Iowa and 
winced in sympathy as the clubs came whistling down.

---------------------------------------------------

? '
8
keith Recker
ME GREAT HEn.
*
IN THE CtR 
COCAS HEW 
SMILES AT 
SHCj TOO| HAS
2.m oNNgw
el 32 CPe ecse 
ecT cTT eFe Phb 
dPcC Pe h a,.1C9 
184eleT
DRI
HE T0ETH
HE I IDIOT DfO RUM THRQ 
CHEW I4 CMe SHELLS F RAW EG 
G TliEM DlWN LllvE BEEi 
SCATTERING IjcNSf 
SO MUCH DUST FRfM
 'i^T At SAW
HIS GRIM DllipSTHE Mfo 
Pehl L hrTleP 9

---------------------------------------------------

oovy got busted; no more candy store, 
more easy highs, nothing keeping me warm, 
min' up on two and I've got to score.-wn s a dry bone; no ones got anymore, 
res in the bars; Danny spread the alarm, 
min up on two and I've got to score.
m'eone fucked up, never caught him before, 
ays sold dean and bought straight from the farm 
|oovy got busted; no more candy store.
as waiting outside, saw them kick in the door. 
r in front, two in back; went down like a charm. 
0VV got busted; no more candy store.
t got no Ds; ill be puking by four, 
getting too scared, cant look at my arm.
\m,n UP 0/7 two and Ive got to score.
almost anything; / shoot like a whore.
&ng easy to please never did me no harm.
0vY got busted; no more candy store, 
in up on two and Ive got to score.
Fisher

---------------------------------------------------

10
ji
/
\
'V S ' :
*>r r, f*
.t/ <* t C-T.* ,' i ,
 ** r* V ;
1
.--
* # f .* * 
M ffer _4T ,? -*f. 
*! f.' 
*U .7* i
_i

---------------------------------------------------

iU 5 *!* **Irriff*
riff'*
;: * i * i Ivll i
tm> # * f| 1 * * i J| | i *
-i * * I 1 * 'i
THE STARS ON THE FLAG
It happened to me at midnight 
in one of those New England states.
You were up, down and strange 
with the stars on the phone.
Five rows of six
four rows of five, you whispered.
The stars were out.
I hear of you
all kinds of alarming rumours, you smiled 
carrying a tray of champagne glasses 
with lipstick smudges on them.
She was in the kitchen 
breaking brie and grapes.
I wonder who will be beautiful tonight?
She asked wrapped in a Union Jack.
Play pretty games with me tonight? 
she raised a smeary glass.
I joined the rest in the next room.
The starts showed up and made us dance outside 
on the lawn, closer and closer 
until our stiffened fingers touched.
I think we need a change of pace, she said 
putting a bullet in the gun 
only one 
and we wonder 
when it comes up 
when it comes up 
Maria Barbuto
OY IN THE BLACK BOOTS
thought that nothing could be softer 
lan to touch your hair, cut in spikes 
kiss your lips, slit with cigarettes
1 hold your wrists, wound with studs.
^hen I saw you dance 
3ur pointed boots like ballet slippers 
jirough inches of beer 
Jack pants tighter than the skin beneath them 
Iwas in love with you that night 
|uch a pretty, pretty boy) 
id though I only watched 
^u taught me everything about everything 
?tween the lines.
-Maria Barbuto

---------------------------------------------------

12
THANKSGIVING
Dusting the chairs
of all sizes
in the basement
I lugged them up
one by one
for use at the dinner
and then back down
until a Thanksgiving in the future
when my mother would surmise
it was her turn again.
The congregating in the kitchen 
stopped one year with all the women 
fighting over who would wash 
and who dry. I always cleared the table. 
After the turkey,
my sister winked while drying the bowl 
from Italy--the one with inlayed gold. 
This ones mine, she said halfkidding. My vocabulary became conspicuoi 
and granted me answers 
to questions of why 
my 38 year-old cousin married 
but h^d no children. And the answers 
didnt matter as much as the offering 
like the mountains of food 
not mattering as much 
as the gathering-always in twilight, 
once a yearto fight over dishes 
that were written in a will; to watch 
a family separate and reunite 
more estranged than before; to finally 
understand that dust 
settles on things 
softly, inevitably 
a grain at a time.
Alice Alfonsi

---------------------------------------------------

13
Gustai<e Dore'
EASTER POEM
Need is not quite belief
- Anne Sexton 
When the mural you pieced together 
of those you loved 
is shattered, 
take a broken star 
and press it to your palm 
until it bleeds.
Remember things
like the cross your godfather gave --
wrapped in flowered paper
given on your eighteenth birthday
when vou were old enough to know
the value of a diamond chip. A jewel
like the eye of a savior
which you lost
in flat gold
and daily routine.
For penance 
run around a track 
until something inside 
presses a knife 
to your lungs.
Begin to enjoy being alone 
and left alone 
and lonely 
and all alone.
Take long walks 
through parks
and loiter in museums. You can hear 
yourself hurting in those places 
where nobody knows you 
but you 
and your god.
And after a while
need is enough
to make you believe
since solitude is all we know of God
and ourselves.
Look down 
at the knots
in your fine gold chain and cry-- 
not over sin or guilt or even love. Cry 
because others in the world suffer 
for more important reasons than vanity. Cry 
because drinking too much on Friday night 
is your only Sabbath.
Alice Alfonsi

---------------------------------------------------

14
it was better that way an) 
wouldve preferred hysterics, 
for a while.! 1
So now that was gone. I tossed the paper on the 
floor and kicked itas much as you can kick a 
newspaperunder the sofa. It was a copy of last 
weeks Morning Call, compliments of my sister. She 
figured that the Dorney Park fire wouldnt make the 
Youngstown news. And she was right about that.
I flipped through the rest of my mail before I 
picked up the Call again. The Thursday edition 
looked strange with a full color photo on the front 
page. Not a bad strategy, though. The picture alone 
couldve sold the paper. Above the wreckage of the 
Grande Carousel, the frame and head of the Sea 
Dragon were charred, but still standing. Its eyes 
glared a greenish-black pride in the flames, as if it had 
just breathed out a million dollars in damages.
I never liked that ride, but Casey had insisted 
that we go on it. I told him it would make us sick, but 
he just laughed and said hed put up with the calliope 
on the Carouselwhich, according to him, was pat
ently designed to give headachesand the least I 
could do was put up with a little swing. Little! Wed 
both come off as green-as the Dragon. I put my 
thumb over its head. When I was little, the Dragon 
wasnt therejust the Carousel and the Skee Ball 
arcade. I wished it would have burned right to the 
ground. And I wished I hadnt picked today to come 
home early.
It proved my theory all wrong. I figure, when 
you plan things out, somethings bound to go wrong. 
But I hadnt planned on coming home early. It was 
just that, at 3:30,1 decided Id had enough typing for 
one day. I put on my best splitting headache look 
and told Connie I had to leave. She didnt care.
I was still looking through the Call when Marvella walked in. "Youre home already? She 
dropped her attache by the door and carried the 
grocery bag out to the kitchen. 'Did you get out 
early?
"Yeah, it wasnt real busy. I didnt feel like 
telling her Id played sick. Marvs pretty stiff about 
things like that. Shed never do it, and if I told her I 
did, shed ask a million questions. Not to be mean, 
just ... in disbelief, I guess. Questions I could never 
seem to answer right.
"Were having falafel for dinner, she called. 
"Ever taste it?
"No. Sounds good, though. Id never even 
heard of falafel. Marvella was into things like that, 
though, so I let her go. We werent very much alike. 
In fact, I really didnt know her that well. We met 
through a mutual friend who knew she needed a 
roommate and thought I needed companionship. I 
didnt care, but everyone kept saying I shouldnt be 
alone, shouldnt be "surrounded by memories. So I 
humored them. After the funeral, I moved in with 
Marvella. And then everything was marvelous.
"Hey Marv, I was going to ask her what falafel 
was, but when I got to the kitchen, the smell of hot 
grease hit me. Like the concession stands at Dorney 
Park. They were all in a rowfrench fries, hot dogs, 
tacos, ice cream. Every week while we waited for our 
walkaway sundaes, we were cornered by the greasy 
breeze. Holding our breath, wed watch the clerk put 
the ice cream in the cone, dip it into melted chocolate 
and roll the chocolate in chopped nuts. As soon as we 
all had one, wed race to the yellow and white picnic 
tables, squealing about runaway sundaes. Every week 
we got yelled at for running; and every week, some
one new dropped their cone.
Marvella was looking at me.
"Im not going to eat tonight, okay?
She clicked off the burner. "Any special rea
son? She meant to be casual, but she kept wiping 
over the same spot on the stove.
Trying not to inhale, I said, "Im just not real 
hungry.
"Anything wrong? |
"No, why would there be? I hate that look and 
so many people had been giving it to me lately. I felt 
like telling them not to worry, I didnt feel a thing and
, but I think they 
"I just want to lie down

---------------------------------------------------

She turned the burner back on, but I could feel 
her watching me. Marv worried too much. I decided 
to ease her mind and lie down on the couch. She 
never liked me to go off by myself, even to sleep. 
Every night, she took her razor out of the showerand 
hid it behind her box of tampons. In the dark, Id 
hear the squeak of the medicine cabinet door, the 
scrape of the moving box, and the click of the razor 
hitting the glass shelf. Some nights it made me laugh. 
Other nights, it made me wonder about her.
I put one foot up on the back of the couch and 
watched her. She always ate all over the newspaper. 
Half the time I couldnt read for all the food stuck to 
it. "You know, Marv, I really miss Dorney Park. I 
closed my eyes.
The newspaper rustled. She cleared her throat. 
"Dorney Park? /
pUh-huh. We used to go there every Sunday 
whejSl was little. Itd be my family and some of my 
cougins, all crammed into Uncle Duckys Delta 88, 
| "Uncle. ..Ducky.
* "Yeah, he got his name when he won a swim
ming race across the Lehigh River. Anyway, wed all 
pile into his car and go to Petersville for dinner. Then 
wed go to the Park. You could hear the music and 
see the rollercoaster before you even pulled into the 
lot. J opened my eyes and leaned up on my elbows. 
"And there was always this old man with a red and 
white striped cane. Hed direct
Marv set her bowl on her plate, her glass in her 
bowl, and her silverware on her plate. "Kelly, you 
have to talk to someone. Have you thought about 
pro
"I have to meet Rita. Ill see you later, Marv. I 
picked up my purse and jogged down the steps. She 
would probably bury her razor in the aloe plant 
tonight.
Corleys was empty, but I took a table near the 
back anyway. Itd be easier to talk there. I watched 
people passing by the front window, sometimes in 
groups, sometimes alone. It had been like that at 
Caseys viewingpeople filing past him, filing past 
me. People crying like there was no tomorrow. I 
handed out tissues while Mrs. Lansing introduced me 
as "Caseys fiancee'. That was itno name. And 
nobody asked, either.
I glanced at my watch. Rita was ten minutes 
late. I order a beer to wait a while longer. Rita was 
always running late, except when she forgot she was 
supposed to be somewhere. Then she didnt run at 
all. Shed be a good person to see, though. She liked 
to drink and she didnt ask a lot of pointless ques
tions. And she knew all about the Park. Whenever 
we talked about our childhoods, she told stories about 
her Navajo grandparents and I told stories about 
Dorney Park.
Like the time I got caught in the Glass House. 
Id begged to go in with my cousin Jackie. After all, I 
was 10. She was behind me when we stepped in, but 
before I knew it, there was a wall of glass between us. 
The harder I tried to get to her, the further away she 
got. Finally, I couldnt see her at all, and wherever I 
turned I bumped into a new panel of glass. I was 
crying when the ticket taker came in to get me. He 
didnt say anything, just took my hand. In the close
ness of the glass hallways, his breath smelled grapey 
sweet, like the gum Jackie kept in her change purse.
Rita was a half hour late. I decided to give her a 
call. She probably had the nights mixed up. One ... I 
hope Im not waking her. Two . . . she usually 
answers it by now. Three ... maybe shes out on the 
porch. Four . . . maybe shes in the shower. Five... 
maybe shes not there at all. Six... but I should give 
her the benefit of the doubt. Around the twelfth ring, 
I figured she must have just left* I let it ring once 
more, then hung up slowly, in case she answered at 
the last minute.
Jim was buying a six-pack when I came out of the 
phone booth. He limped oyeif "All alone?
"Waiting for Rita. \$riat happened to you?
He didnt say anything, just looked at me. 
Finally, he asked, "How are you?

---------------------------------------------------

16
"Okay. There was another pause. "Dorney 
Park burned down.
"Dorney Park? He set down the six.
I didnt say anything, to give him a chance to 
remember. But he just stood there, so I had to 
explain. "Remember when Casey and I went to visit 
my family last summer? Well, we went to this park I 
used to go to all the time when I was little. We went 
on all the rides. I smiled. 
ffBut it burned down?
"Yeah. I wanted to tell him how wed spend 
the orange books of tickets running from ride to ride. 
How the Carousel was the only ride Aunt Loretta 
would go on, and how, when we drove out of the park 
at night, lights along the lake reflected blue and green 
and red arches in the water. I wanted to tell him how 
much fun Casey had there. But he looked like he was 
in pain, so I just said, ,fYoud better take care of 
that. I motioned to his leg.
He hesitated. "Kelly, you ought to think about 
finding . . . uh . . . somebody else. He looked away. 
"You just . . . you shouldnt spend so much time by 
yourself. Its not good. Steve at the shop has been 
asking about you ...
I turned back to the table. After a minute, I 
heard him pick up the six and leave.
Rita was three beers late. Maybe she couldnt 
find a parking space. An hour later, I decided no 
parking space was that hard to find. But that was 
okay. I felt just as relaxed as if shed been there. It 
was a silly thing to count on anyway. Rita never held 
any records for reliability.
Out at the car, I sat down on the bumper. It was 
too early to go home. Marv would still be up and I 
didnt feel like telling her Rita didnt show. Marv had 
sympathy to spare on all occasions, but somehow it 
always boomeranged. She just couldnt let things go. 
When I most wanted to forget something, I could 
always count on her to bring it up. Tracing "wash 
me on the dirty chrome, I thought about walking 
somewhere. How many blocks to Caseys . . . one, 
two, three strokes in the dirt. Caseyhe had a pic
ture of the Carousel. We were both in it; some 
80year-old man had taken it between rides. I kneeled in 
one of the cream and gold chariots while Casey stood 
in the stirrups of a blade charger. I started walking.
The Dragon had just opened that summer; a line in 
the background snaked past the Carousel. People 
staring at us and one small boy with his eyes crossed 
and tongue out. Casey always laughed at that part of 
the picture; he noticed it when he picked out the 
shadow of the Dragon on the crowd. He kept that 
picture on his dresser, right under the mirror. I could 
see it.
The front steps still creaked. The railing was still 
bent at the fifth stair. The key was still behind the 
loose brick in the doorway. I let myself in with the 
stealth of a cat burglar. Patting the wall, I found the 
light switch. Nothing. The hall window gave a little 
street light. I walked toward it, then turned into the 
bedroom. The darkness there was like a hand over my 
eyes and mouth. I stepped around the bookcase and 
over the scale. The mirror seemed blacker than the 
rest of the room. I slid my hand along the dresser. The 
picture was right. . .there. Dust furred my palm as my 
hand continued, uninterrupted.
I stared at it or where I thought it was and wiped 
my hand on my blouse. It didnt matter. I probably 
had a picture of the Carousel somewhere. And there 
was always the Call photo. I could just cut out the 
Dragon. I stumbled over to the bedside table. The 
tissues were gone, too.
Catherine M. McCafferty
