The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 16, February 8, 1983.
'FO, Panhel 
aise funds
jjy MARGARET EISSLER
forton Staffwriter
The United Fraternal Organization 
JFO) and the CMU Panhellenic Council 
sponsoring a fundraiser for Kim Kate10, 17, who is suffering from leukemia, 
iterino needs a bone marrow transplant, 
will cost around $100,000, and 
lust travel to Seattle, Washington for the 
Operation.
Members of fraternities and sororities will 
going door-to-door in the dorms on Febiry 9th and 10th. They will be wearing 
letter shirts, crests, or pins, and 
[iso be carrying cans with a special 
}hen they ask for donauons. There will 
ibles set up in Skibo, Warner 
lall, and Doherty Hall for off-campus stu 
Jents, administrators, or anyone else who 
wishes to help support the cost of Kims 
Operation.
Jim Stuart, president of UFO and Susan 
lahler, a member of Panhel, are chairing 
le fundraiser committee, with Jeff RutLowski, the fraternities housing director, 
[ending his advice and support. The GraduStudent Organization, with Dean Cox, is
o helping the effort by giving the pro* from their Las Vegas night at the GSO 
inner.
Kims 16 year old sister, who is the donor 
If the bone marrow transplant, is also going 
Seattle. They are from Hazelwood, a subIrb of Pittsburgh.
photo bv Raj Viswanathan
Frederic Storaska explained How to Say No to a Rapist and Survive, Monday, January 
31. For more coverage on the lecture see page 7.
PAAR protests 
lecture on rape 
prevention
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Assistant News Editor
During the quesdon and answer session 
of the How to Say No to a Rapist and 
Survive lecture on Monday, January 31, a 
shouting match occurred between lecturer 
Storaska and women from Pitts
burgh Action Against Rape (PAAR).
The women, who had been passing out 
literature in front of the ballroom before and 
during the lecture, were protesting Storaskas answers to dealing with a rape 
situation.
At this time, most of the people who 
attended the lecture had left. However, sev
eral of the approximately 20 students 
remaining repeatedly asked the women to 
leave, which they eventually did accompan
ied by CMU police.
The requests from the students came after 
one of the women accused Storaska of 
influencing the minds of these impression
able youngsters. After this statement, one 
student stood up and asked all non-CMU 
students to leave. He also wrent on to say, 
You people can have a lecture some time, 
but tonight Ive come to hear this man 
speak. I can make the decision in my own 
mind who is right.
Its typical for a handful of people to feel 
continued on page 7
uclear Science grad program to be phased out
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
fartan Assistant News Editor 
According to a memo issued by CIT Dean 
igel G. Jordan, the Nuclear Science and 
Engineering graduate program is being 
phased out as a degree granting department 
[f CIT. Graduate students that are close to 
eing granted a degree in the program will 
given courses that will give them the 
jecessary requirements, but other students 
ill have to transfer their credit to another 
lepartment.
As you know, nobody is ordering new 
reactors anymore, but there is a lot of servicerelated work available, said Professor Osterle, chairman of the NSE. Im sorry theyve 
given up. I would have preferred that they 
wait for the inevitable turnaround in the 
industry.
Although Osterle expected the action, he 
didnt expect its swiftness. The Dean and 
his advisors have been contemplating this 
for some time and I expected the action, but 
I knew as much about it as the students. I
was sent the same memo that they were. So I 
did the best I could in the way of preparing 
the students for the action in the time I had, 
he said.
Osterle noted that the NSE was the only 
degree granting nuclear program in Pittsburgh. They dont have one down at Pitt. 
Its funny because, thanks to Westinghouse, 
Pittsburgh is the largest center of nuclear 
power in the world. I just think that itll be a 
shame when the next nuclear power plant 
America buys will come from Japan, 
France or Germany.
SNS, Senate settle dispute
photo by Rhoda Funk
|ean Jacques Servan Schreiber, former French cabinet minister and parliament member, 
Jke Monday, January 31 about The computerization of the world: A French challenge. 
the lecture, Schreiber favored government, rather than private, support of computeriza>nOn Schreibers left is Steve Jobs, chairman of the board of Apple Computers.
By PAULINE WBJi
Tartan Assistant News Editor
When the Senate met last Tuesday, one of 
the main issues discussed was the recent dif
ficulty between Scotch n Soda (SNS) and 
the Senate Finance Committee.
In the past three weeks, three meetings 
have been called by the Finance Committee 
to discuss with SNS the discrepancies in 
their computer account allocations and 
usage, missing checks, and the past deficits 
of the club. The discrepancies in the compu
ter allocation and usage concerns the fact 
that SNS was given $1000 worth of compu
ter accounts and that Senate had believed 
that they had only been allocated $200 and 
had overspent. After discussion, Senate 
voted to allocate $200 to SNS for this 
semester.
The missing checks were received by 
Senate the Saturday before last Tuesdays 
meeting. These checks had been missing 
because a CMU staff member had mistak
enly taken them with her when she termi
nated employment at CMU.
Last Tuesday, a letter addressed to the 
Senate by Felicia Pratto, a former president 
of SNS, was read. In her letter, Pratto 
stressed that the committee members, with
the possible exception of Paula Franklin, 
made no attempt to acknowledge the infor
mation presented by SNS.
The letter also stated that only four of the 
committee members, including the Chair, 
said anything at all... they were rude and 
sustained irrelevent and personal com
ments. It went on to say that no students 
or student organization should be treated by 
anyone ... as the finance committee treated 
members of SNS.
The letter ended with a petition signed by 
133 students including members of A Phi O, 
the Computer Club, GSO, the Investment 
Club, the Student Corporation, the Student 
Senate, The Tartan, the Thistle, and 
WRCT. The petition states:
1) that Student Senate investigate the 
proceedings of the Finance Committee;
2) that Senate develop a set erf rules to 
govern the proceedings of the Finance 
Committee;
3) that any vote on recommendations 
made by the Finance Committee to die Stu
dent Senate be suspended until the objec
tions are investigated.
Senate Chair, Alexandra Kavoulakis, con
cluded that since this was an internal Senate 
continued on page 6

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Let's take initiative for a student union
We want a Student Union, we want a ... 
The cries go on. Since CMU immemorial, stu
dents have complained about getting not only 
a Student Union, but a decent Student Union. 
Most of these cries, however, fall upon deaf ears 
in the administration. So, we students need to 
stop whining and start moving into action.
In a recent luncheon with a group of stu
dents, Provost Daniel Berg said if students 
come up with a list of exactly what should go 
into their Student Union and develop some 
preliminary plans, the administration might 
follow through on them. We dont know if 
they will, but we do know nothing will be 
done if conditions remain as they are.
All of us know CMU needs a Student Union 
for office space, meeting space, and space for 
students to gather both formally and infor
mally. Its becoming increasingly important to 
tie the students and the university together.
We have seen Student Unions at other 
schools, schools which are not significantly 
larger than CMU, where they put much more 
effort toward their students needs. There are 
Student Unions with plenty of room for offices 
and even more in the way of lounges and
entertainment. Were talking about auditori
ums, game rooms, TV rooms, and places to 
just relax.
Our vision of a Student Union is not 
another Skibo (or even more of the same), nor 
the amazingly unaffordable Eden the adminis
tration might think it is. We watch capital 
investments such as the ITC and the Robotics 
Institute, which realize Cyerts vision of money 
and recognition, pass through the university 
and we wonder why the students vision isnt 
given a second thought.
We realize our Student Union will require 
money to build, and that the administration 
claims this money is not available. We think it 
could be raised. Why cant we ask the alumni 
to mark some of their contributions for the 
Student Union? The administration has been 
having trouble getting students to work on 
their phonaton this year. Want to know why? 
Student leaders feel it is a problem of incentive; 
pizza and free long-distance phone calls just 
arent good enough anymore. A chance of 
gaining a Student Union would be.
We are making an appeal now to the student 
body, not the administration, to try to make
our hopes realities. A Student Union is a pro. 
ject in which we should invest a bit of our own 
time and effort. Lets follow it through and 
show the administration we arent going to sit 
by any longer not doing anything.
We want to know what you want in our 
Student Union. What is it that other schools 
have that we want or need? What sorts of 
things do you have to go off campus for now? 
If you are interested in the areas of design and 
architecture, show us what our Student Union 
should look like. Where should it be built and 
how should it be designed?
Next week we will run a survey; we ask that 
you respond to it or write us a separate letter. 
Tell the administration what you want, too 
After we compile the results of the survey, we 
will present them to Dan Berg, along with any 
other feedback we receive.
We think we might start getting some 
response from the administration and perhapi 
they will look at what we have and tell us what 
is possible and what is not. Well have to work 
together but weve got to start it on our own. 
Now.
Activities fee increase helps organizations
By Nate Solano
Order before midnight (tomorrow is too 
late).
Dear Nate,
I was just thinking that since we had a 
^ rally to protest the 19% increase 
in tuition it would only be 
fo rational to do something simlar 
to protest the proposed 40% 
increase in the activities fee. We could bum a 
copy of the senates fiscal policy or 
something.
Paul Whitaker
I think its important for everyone to 
know there is a campus-wide referendum 
today and tomorrow to decide whether the
activities fee should be raised for next year, 
and its important to understand why. 
According to the campus treasury, the pres
ent activities fee will not be able to keep 
student organizations at their present level 
of funding next year (due to inflation, eco
nomic trends and whatever else) and any 
increase less than $20 will only suffice for an 
additional year.
So, I guess the basic question is whether 
student organizations should continue to be 
funded at their present rates or if they should 
be forced to tighten their belts. (Nice cliche 
huh?) I dont honestly care how you vote, 
but I encourage you to vote.
For lack of much anything else to write, I 
will make some predictions for this years
coming events:
Academy Awards
Best Movie: Megaforce. Loose plot, 
intolerable acting, but lightning bolt 
on costumes makes this one a shoe-in. 
Best Actress: The girl in Megaforce. I 
dont know her name but she was the 
bald one in Star Trek I.
Best Actor The guy in Megaforce. I 
dont know his name but he played 
Brad in the Rocky Horror Picture 
Show.
USFL Superbowl (or equivalent)
Its going to be close but the Philadel
phia Force will beat the Oakland 
Invaders in a 3-0 defensive brawl. (I 
determined this by putting together
Vodrey lists general complaints
the only two team names that I knew. 
Might as well say the field goal will be 
68 yards too.
Emmy Awards
Best situation comedy: Give Me A 
Break (NBC).
Grammy Awards
Best Album: Hall 8c Oates and Rick 
James, co-winners.
Best Single: Stray Cat Strut (Stray 
Cats).
Office hours this week will be Wednesday 
from 4:306 p.m. and Thursday from 
2:304:30 p.m. My home telephone 
number is 687-6404.
Signed,
NEXT WEEK: How to tell if your room 
mate is turning gay.
By Catherine Stroud Vodrey 
Being in a bad mood makes you do funny 
things. Generally, I slam doors and yell at 
innocent bystanders, but today (being in a 
bad mood, of course), I sat down and made a 
list of things that arent to be 
trusted. I share them now with 
you, my dear readers. . .
1.) Deans List types who 
breezily assure you that the very test over 
which you are biting your nails is cakey. 
,2.) NEW AND IMPROVED!! products
that neglect to tell you exactly how they 
have been modernized and made better.
3.) Wind-up alarm clocks.
4.) Salespeople who call you honey or 
sweetie or worse yet, darling.
5.) People with cameras and new rolls of 
film, especially if the person just happens to 
be your roommate; he or she has the oppor
tunity to catch you in all sorts of delightfully 
compromising situations.
6.) Eraseable-ink pens.
Teaching center good idea
By Orpheus Allison
Well, last week it was the usurpation of 
parental powers by the university. This 
week it is advice for the new teaching center. 
While this university may technically be/
part of several different national 
and multinational corpora
tions, it can at no time deny its 
university tide.
Too often has education been comprised 
by a need for profit, and of course, our 
figurehead president made his mark in busi
ness. However, this is a university, and the 
goal of any university is not to turn out new 
technology but to turn out creative thinking 
individuals. Yes, you can have such a course 
that teaches people to reason in a logical
mathematical method. However, unless 
there is the human interaction that exists in 
a humanitartian society, it is futile for a 
corporate university to believe that it is such 
a place that can educate creative thinkers.
Requiring that the professors seek help in 
how to educate their respective classes is a 
step forward. However, it is only the first 
step. The university must seek to turn out 
people who can apply their learning in a 
creative and ethical manner. It must also 
turn out people who can communicate 
effectively in their writing and their speak
ing abilities. At present, the universitys 
intent is good in this area and it looks like 
we may at last be able to get competent 
instructors.
7.) 100% cotton anything. If you hate to 
iron the way I hate to iron, this distrust is 
inherent.
8.) People with perfect hair.
9.) Do-it-yourself guidebooks. There is a 
plethora of these in every self-respecting 
bookstore, on everything from Do-ItYourself Wine-Making to Do-It-Yourself 
Mansion. Chances are, you really cant do 
it yourself.
10.) Speed-reading. Come on. Think 
about it. War and Peace in a week? Forget it.
Now that Ive gotten, that out of my sys
tem, I can relax. Whew! A lot easier on my 
system than kicking doors and yelling at 
innocent bystanders!
Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore 
majoring in Creative Writing/English 
Literature, and is a columnist for the 
Tartan.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letters to the editor are opinions of individual authors 
who are usually members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter.
&
Editor in Chief......................................Monica Cellio
Managing Editor..................................Gregg Bossier
Business Manager................................ Kathy Wasch
News Editor  .........................Joanne Savinell
Features Editor...............................Pauline Kramer
Entertainment Editor....................... Susan Petrie
Sports Editor.............................................Jeff Bergman
Photography Editor...........................Steve Winawer
Production Manager...............Carolyn Speranza
Ad Manager................................. ... Bonnie Topf
Typesetting Manager.............................Patti Carlisle
Art Director...................................Michael Sussman
Contributing Editors............................Alice Alfonsi
Vince Guinto 
Louise Crocoll
Assistant Business Mgr.........................Tara Dieguez
Assistant News Editors.....................Chris Johnston
Pauline Wen
Asst Features Editor..........................Monica Safrin
Asst Em. Editor.................................John Cantine
Asst Sports Editor..................................Ric Medrow
Asst Photo Editor.....................................Jean Siegel
Asst Production Mgr...............................Peter Bain
Production Staff: Doug Blair, Susan Bossi, 
Margaret Eissler, Esther Filderman, Andrew 
Ghali.
Copyright  1988 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication aW 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Off** 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111 Business Offices: Skibo 52, 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. MaW 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 1521 
Funded by the Activiues Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

February 8. 1983The TartanPage 3
.Letters
Solve final problems
Editor:
Student Senate has received numerous let
ters and complaints referring to last semesters final examination procedures. There 
were two points of complaint.
The first concerned the freshman Dynam
ics fc Equilibria course taught by Professor 
Oretto. Prof. Caretto has confirmed that no 
breakfast was available on Saturday morn
ing, several of the testing room doors were 
locked, and finally, Wean Hall 7500 was 
without adequate heat or lighting. These 
are obviously unacceptable testing 
conditions.
In response, Student Senate has passed the 
following resolutions, and letters like this 
will be sent to President Cyert, Food Service, 
physical Plant, and the Registrar. While we 
are sure that everyone involved has been 
,made aware of the problems, we are not 
convinced specific steps have been taken to 
ensure the problems wont recur. We would 
like to see a published response from Food 
Service and Physical Plant confirming that 
these oversights will not be repeated.
The second group of complaints dealt 
with the conflict between Graduate Record 
Exams and the newly added Saturday test
ing day. Because of the conflict last semester 
the Registrar was able to change many of the 
senior finals to another day. However, we
* were told that this will not happen in the 
future.
Instead a letter will be sent advising stu
dents not to schedule iheir GREs for the 
December testing date of 1983. This is not 
acceptable. As Senates second resolution 
states, GREs are critical for acceptance to 
many graduate programs. The university 
cannot ask a student to compromise his 
chances of being accepted to a competitive 
graduate school, on the chance that a final 
might be scheduled for that day.
None of these complaints are unreasona
ble, and both issues need to be acted upon 
quickly. Furthermore, solutions are within 
reach for each of the problems. They can 
only be implemented, though, with the 
joint support of the students, faculty, and 
administration. Please send opinions on 
either of these issues to Academic Affairs/Student Senate, and copies will be sent to 
the appropriate administrators.
The resolutions are:
1. Whereas,
a. final examinations are a 
significant factor in a stu
dents grade and,
b. many students consider 
breakfast an important prep
aration for test taking and,
c. testing conditions play an 
important part in the stu
dents performance,
therefore, be it resolved that many of the 
conditions for finals testing in the fall semes
ter of 1982 were inexcusable and must be 
improved if future exams are to be held in a 
fair and proper academic environment.
2. Whereas, Graduate Record Exams are 
critical for acceptance to many graduate pro
grams and opportunities for taking the 
exams are limited, therefore, be it resolved 
that students should not be forced to sche
dule their Graduate Record Exams around 
the CMU finals schedule of Fall 1983.
Elizabeth Fox 
Academic Affairs Comm.
Student Senate
*W155E AGAIN* 
M.
Some EE profs, students are lazy
Editor:
We would like to bring to the attention of 
the campus community a practice that, we 
believe, is a serious threat to the promotion 
of independent thought: re-releasing of the 
previous years homework assignments.
We are currently in 18-222, a EE core 
course. At least four-fifths of the first home
work assignment (according to a person in 
the course last year), was from last years 
assignment  which was identical to the 
previous years assignment.
How can we be expected to do well in the 
course by doing the work independently, 
when everyone who utilizes last years solu
tions has such a head start? Will the cost 
and effort of enrolling in CMU be wasted for 
the independent thinkers who do not wish 
to copy some seniors assignments? We 
think so.
Not only do people who copy assign
ments from upperclassmen do better than
average on the homework assigments, but 
they probably wont be able to use the infor
mation presented in the course in their 
future occupation as an engineer because 
they never learned it in the first place.
One person (who probably took the 
course in the past) even commented that it 
would be a good idea to bring along last 
years tests as notes for any exams.
We think that it is unfair for the people 
who actually do the work to be penalized 
because the professor and some of our fellow
classmates are lazy.
Anyone who has a course taught in this 
manner should complain and demand that 
things change.
One of the more eloquent members of our 
group termed our position like this: wed 
rather be taught by the professor than by the 
senior class.
Phil Mason, EE 84 
Rob Packard, EE 84 
and other members of the junior EE class 
who wish their names be withheld
Nate's better than others
Editor:
In response to Ward Travis letter in your 
2/1 issue:
Nate really puts a lot of time and effort 
into his position, and for Travis to attempt 
to malign his duties in one single editorial 
sweep is totally unjustified. Unjustified 
because Travis is only a freshman and hasnt
Don't complain about health service
Edit:
Im writing in response to Catherine 
Stroud Vodreys opinion of the CMU 
Health Service in the February 1 issue. First, 
she seemed to be upset because the nurse 
cheerfully greeted her. Perhaps a less ego
centric attitude should be adopted by Miss
Vodrey; when she feels low, the rest of the 
world need not feel low.
Second, the nurse is not legally allowed to 
disperse drugs, so dont hold it against her. 
Third, if the doctor does not come to the 
school before 11:30, the nurse cannot do any
thing about it. Lastly, I love the mature
Abortion story corrected
Editor:
The final paragraph of your article on the 
raUy protesting the Roe v. Wade decision 
Purports to state the Supreme Courts threePart ruling on the case. Your article is in 
ertor about each of the three parts.
First, the Court did not hold that during 
the first three months of pregnancy, the state 
must leave the abortion decision entirely to 
' the woman and the physician. Rather, the 
Curt held that For the stage approxi
mately the end of the first trimester, the abor^n decision and its effectuation must be left 
t0 the medical judgement of the pregnant 
wnians attending physician. Of course, 
as with any surgical procedure in this counphysician normally must have the 
,nforrned consent of the patient. Still, it is 
not legally inconsequential that the the
Court delegated the decision making power 
to the attending physician.
Second, the Court did not hold that Dur
ing the second three months, the state may 
only enact laws which regulate where abor
tion may take place and who performs it. 
Rather, the Court held that For the stage 
subsequent to approximately the end of the 
first trimester, the State, in promoting its 
interest in the health of the mother, may, if it 
chooses, regulate the abortion procedure in 
ways that are reasonably related to maternal 
health. Where abortion takes place and 
who performs it are only two out of many 
questions that are reasonably related to 
maternal health which the state may 
answer as it sees fit.
Third, the Court did not hold that Dur
ing the last three months of pregnancy, the 
continued on page 4
attitude that Miss Vodrey displayed by glar
ing at the nurse  did that help to cure her 
illness?
I personally have no reason for writing 
this except that I feel that Miss Vodrey has 
been unfair to the nurse. In my four years at 
CMU Ive had some contact with the Health 
Service and have found no reason to com
plain. Instead, I applaud the health service 
nurses for helping to handle the problems of 
CMU students who find it hard to let go of 
Mamas apron strings.
Judith Ivanschultz 
Psychology/Education 
Senior
experienced the leadership of previous stu
dent leaders.
For the first time, our chronically apa
thetic school is glistening with some hope 
for student unity. Our previous student lead
ers did not have a weekly column. And had 
Travis been reading more carefully, he 
would have noticed that whatever is hap
pening in student government or to students 
or the administration is honestly reported 
each, although not every, week. We never 
had this privilege before, for our previous 
leaders only sought collectibles for a resume.
According to a graduate math student, 
Nate is the most responsible leader this 
school has seen in some time. The tuition 
rally was the first time he had ever seen the 
students sincerely unified for one single 
cause. The fact that Nate has imagination, a 
sense of humor and a feel for what people 
need does not seem to impress Travis. But 
why should it? Travis letter sounds like a 
helpless bleating from some blind, lost 
sheep whose surroundings are sheltered and 
unimaginative existence.
Joe Toth
Cantine review criticized
Editor:
Mr. Can tines comments on the Dark 
Crystal are about what I would expect from 
an establishment movie cntic who has long 
since lost the ability to dream and feel. This 
type has little imagination if any and can 
only relate to things they have seen at least 
100 limes.
Does anyone remember the surreal crea
tures Henson used in his early appearances 
on variety shows? The Muppets as we know 
them today are Sesame Street oriented with
just enough low-brow humor to interest the 
pea-brained American viewing public... yecht!
The Dark Crystal is a tour de force of 
dreamlike images and emotions that are to 
date the best recreation of the world J.R.R. 
Tolkien carried around in his head. I think 
Mr. Can tine should put on his three-piece 
suit and go into management... he has the 
proper sensitivity.
TheN disgustedly, 
Thomas M. Hoonc

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 8, 1983
Careless actions are killing our trees
Editor
For some time Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity has made a new and determined effort to 
create a physically beautiful campus 
through landscaping: the planting of new 
trees, especially flowering ones. I applaud 
this effort and encourage the university to 
continue.
Unfortunately, whoever takes care of the 
trees and grounds is making some serious 
mistakes. Many erf the newly planted trees 
have died for lack erf water. Most gardeners 
agree that to get young trees or large dormant trees off to a good start, they should be 
watered once a week during the growing 
season of the first year of planting. Ive 
watched in horror as the huge trees near 
Warner and the Skibo parking lot died and 
were replaced. A little water in the dry spells 
would have saved these magnificent 
specimens.
Spring blossoming trees are the prize of 
any beautiful landscape. Over the past sev
eral years, CMU has planted many Kwanzan Oriental cherry trees and various species 
of crab apples. Pruning is essenual to shape
the trees only during their early develop
ment. Once a tree is established, however, 
pruning should be kept at a minimum. 
Each year someone has severely pruned the 
crab apples adjacent to Skibo. This year in 
particular the trees were loaded with thou
sands of potential flowers but someone 
pruned away almost all the flowering 
branches. Unlike ordinary apple trees which 
require heavy late winter or early spring 
pruning to produce exhibition fruit, crab 
apples are grown for their flowers.
Please condnue to make CMU green and
Let's get stock in our corporation
Editor
I have a couple of complaints and sugges
tions that I would like to pass along. My 
primary concern is the difference between 
the rate of inflation and the rate of increase 
in CMU costs. In the past, it has been easy 
for the administration to say that increased 
fuel costs and rising salaries have justified 
increases in tuition.
This year though, the people in Warner 
Hall have said without shame that a very 
great part of the increase will be due to 
capital improvements, mosdy for the ITC. 
Since I will probably never see a benefit from 
this project, I question why I would want to 
fund it with my tuition dollars.
Because of the unseasonably warm 
weather, the Housing Office is predicting a 
large surplus in funds that were budgeted 
for energy costs. Why then the increase in 
housing (a predicted 11% rise over this year) 
costs? Again, capital improvements: this 
time to Morewood. The cost of the money 
used to renovate Morewood Gardens is liter
ally strangling the rest of the campus.
Other improvements that need to be done 
are being pushed aside due to lack of funds 
and housing rates still go up. Again I ques
tion why I want to fund areas of improve
ment that dont affect me.
I promise to offer some suggestions. I sug
gest that since we are a corporation, we 
ought to raise capital the way other corpora
tions do. I want to be issued stock. As it 
stands now, my equity in this place is nil. At 
least if I had some stock, I might have an 
interest in improvement. Also, if this place 
decides to close, Id want a share in the liqui
dation. As an added plus, President Cyert 
could use some of his annual budget surplus 
to declare a dividend.
One of the other things that bothers me is 
the misuse of the term real world. People 
keep telling me that things are different in 
the real world. As far as Im concerned, 
this world is pretty real. If it isnt, then 
maybe the cashiers office wont mind me 
paying my tuition next year in Monopoly 
money. I wont say that things arent differ
ent out there in the business world. At
least when you apply for a job off-campus 
the company lets you know if youve been 
accepted. The only way that Im going to 
believe that everything isnt real is if Nate 
tells me so.
P. Houston 
Sr. Math
beautiful but please water the new trees and 
prune them properly.
With great conce^ 
Johnny Crabapplese^j 
Alias: BobWant King day? 
Write to Reagan
Editor
On Saturday Night Live (Jan 29), Eddie 
Murphy made a public appeal to President 
Reagan to reverse his decision not to make 
Martin Luther King Day a national holiday 
Anyone who wishes to support this cause 
should send a postcard to:
President Reagan 
c/o Eddie Murphy, SNL 
P.O. Box 912 
New York, NY 10101 
Murphy plans to rent a semi and deliver 
the postcards to the president in person.
Jeff Koechling 
CIT/WASPWas rally newsworthy?
continued from page 3
state may forbid an abortion determined not 
to be necessary to preserve the life or health 
of the mother. Rather, the Court held that 
For the stage subsequent to viability the 
State, in promoting its interest in the poten
tiality of human life, may, if it chooses, regu
late, and even proscribe abortion except 
where it is necessary, in appropriate medical 
judgment, for the preservation of the life or 
health of the mother. When Roe v. Wade 
was decided (January 22,1973) medical tech
nology was such that a normal fetus was 
sustainable outside the mother roughly 
from around the beginning of the last three
months of pregnancy. Since then media 
technology has advanced and no doubt wil 
continue to, thereby placing viability 
within the second trimester.
By the by, though I am not in a posidon 
to speculate as to the accuracy of the repor 
tage of the rally, it does occur to me to 
wonder why The Tartan chose to feature 
this event on its front page and devote close 
to a full page to it. From what perspective 
would this protest rally appear to be the 
most newsworthy off campus event since 
the last issue of The Tartan?
Roger Wertheimer 
Professor of Philosophy
Freshman
Orientation
1983
Counselors
Would you like to be one? Pick up an application and submit it before Feb. 9th! Theyre available al
SKIBO INFO DESK
We want YOU! Do it, Aloha.
Boom! Get a rat trap bigger than a cat trap!

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1983The TartanPage 5
ndustries start research projects at CMU
,y TINA ELLERBEE
artan Staffivritrr
In the interests of both the University and 
e Pittsburgh business community, CMU 
nd industry have pooled resources for the 
evelopment of several new research centers
nd projects: ^ >
Under the auspices of Mellon Institute, 
MU has established a materials characterition center. The center will conduct both 
ndamental and applied research. Using 
ery sophisticated equipment such as elecmicroscopes, researchers can make 
xtremely detailed analyses of all types of 
aterial. As most companies cannot afford 
is type of equipment yet often need to have 
aterial characterized, the center will be on 
ire to industry. According to Dan Berg, 
rovost of the Engineering department, the 
enter has been constructed and is just about
open for business.
PPG (Pittsburgh Plate Glass), in con
nection with the University biology depart
ment, is working on the first project in the 
Pittsburgh area for genetic engineering. 
While CMU is currently doing research in 
this field, the project is a small start towards 
University efforts to get Pittsburgh in the 
mainstream of genetic engineering 
commercialization.
Alcoa, after losing interest in laser equip
ment that wasnt useful with aluminum, 
donated the equipment to CMU. The highpowered lasers will be used by Mellon Insti
tute for both research and commercial 
purposes.
In an effort to restore to Pittsburgh 
newer and fresher industries, an incubator 
center for companies just getting off the 
ground had been established by CMU. A
building owned by the University that is 
currently being used as a garage will serve as 
the subsidized rental place for new busi
nesses. The entrepreneurs will be able to 
take advantage of Mellon Institute and also 
CMU graduates as employees.
Hewlett-Packard has donated to CMU 
40 powerful personal computers. Primarily 
for use in the engineering department, the 
computers will be used for both research and 
educational purposes. The system, 
although it will be non-network, ties in with 
the University-wide personal computer pro
gram. It will be used by undergraduate and 
graduate students.
A center for magnetic research has been 
established under the direction of Mark 
Kryder, professor of Electrical Engineering . 
Lots of companies have kicked in money 
for research, says Dan Berg. This is 
another niche of strength to clobber every
body else with. The center will also be pri
marily for the use of the engineering 
department.
CMU has submitted a proposal to the 
Department of Defense for the connection of 
the University with two major DOD pro
grams. One of these is an ultra-speed com
puter that the University proposes to have 
continued on page 6
Senate discusses exam schedule
enves speaks on infrastructure
On Wednesday, February 9, 1983 at 4:30 
).m. in the Skibo Wherrett Room, Dr. 
>teven Fenves, University Professor of Civil 
Engineering, will speak on Rebuilding the 
nfrastructure: The Role of Technology. 
Ihis lecture is the third in the Presidents 
Distinguished Lecture Series for 1982-83.
The crisis of deterioration of the public 
nfrastructure  highways, bridges, water 
tnd sewer systems  observed by every
irban resident has been the subject of lively Correction
lebate in Congress and the media. Primary 
ssues are those of political priorities and the 
leed for massive funding.
in the public sector. His presentation will 
sketch the magnitude of the problem 
caused by the deferred maintenance of the 
U.S. infrastructure, but will concentrate 
primarily on the less-publicized issues of 
technology operating within the constraints 
of regulation and the diffused decision
making characteristic of the public sector. 
A reception for Fenves will follow the 
lecture. Everyone is welcome.
Professor Fenves, however, suggests that 
lot enough has been said about the role of 
technology that can assist in finding solu
tions and the problems of decision-making
History Professor Dr. Edwin Fenton is not 
the head of a commission to investigate the 
implementation of new core courses as we 
stated in last weeks Tartan. If pursued, the 
decision to institute core courses will be 
decided by the educational policy committee 
headed by Provost Richard Van Horn.
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Student senate once again convened in 
the Wherrett Room last Tuesday. After hear
ing a letter from Scotch n Soda about the 
recent difficulties and debating about that 
issue, the senate went on to other business.
Dean Walter reported that he is still work
ing on changing the reading day and final 
exams schedule.
Dean Cox is looking into the lack of a 
better student union at CMU, and in 
response to this, senate formed a student 
union committee to look into the matter.
Student Dorm Council reported that it 
had looked into the trouble with Food Ser
vice on the morning of Saturday finals and 
found it an isolated case. It was also 
announced that SDC elections are being 
held this week. A housing resolution by 
SDC was debated by student senate. The first 
two clauses of the resolution, one concern
ing the actual repairing of the damages that
are charged to students and the other con
cerning the amount of money students 
should pay for damages, were passed 
unanimously by the senate. The third clause 
of the resolution was not approved. This 
clause stated that no specific person should 
be held responsible for damages incurred in 
areas open to the general public.
Alexandra Kavoulakis announced that 
there are three senate vacancies in CFA.
The Thistle was passed as a service organ
ization, and money was allocated to WRCT 
for new equipment and to the CMU lacrosse 
club for expenses.
A new fiscal policy was passed unanim
ously. The policy concerns senate paying 
part of an organizationss deficit.
Paula Franklin was appointed a member 
of the Scotch n Soda board for a period of 
one month.
The meeting ended with announcements. 
Members stressed that students should vote 
about the increase in the activities fee on 
Tuesday and Wednesday of this week.
LfUU
Carnegie-Mellon University
President's Distinguished Lecture Series
MITREwiElb ecI EloMndeMRueRMIt ecI MgwI go eIuclgwgba
Dr. Steven Fenves 
University Professor 
of Civil Engineering
Wherrett Room 
4:30 p.m.
Wednesday, February 9,1983

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanFebruary 8, 1983
Counseling Center: students feel more stress this year
According to Grumet, the Counsel^ 
Center will offer its Stress Management 
workshop again this semester. The Officeoj 
Student Affairs will also offer a one or tw0 
session evening program on the subject In 
addition, Student Activities will sponsor a 
program on Stress Management, to be held 
on February 17th.
By LAURA GOLOWICH
Tartan Staffivriter
The amount of stress that students feel 
this year is up from last year. According to 
Judy Grumet, Head of Counseling Center, 
this increase in stress stems both from aca
demic and economic problems.
The University is not an ivory tower, 
separated from the real world, said 
Grumet. She noted that students are affected 
both by current problems and by the state of 
the job market. Brad Walter, Dean of Stu
dent Affairs, also asserted that there is a defi
nite correlation between the stress students 
feel and the state of the economy.
Grumet estimated an increase of 30% in 
the use of the Counseling Center from last 
year. Partly, she said, this result is due to the 
increased visiblity of the Center. This year 
the Counseling Center has advertised all of 
its workshops, and has made various presen
tations on subjects such as Freshman
Orientation.
Walter also attributed the increase in 
traffic in the Student Affairs Office to 
greater advertising. I want students to come 
in to see me, he said. There is always a 
solution to their problems, and we can help 
them find it.
Grumet said that she believes the aca
demic pressures at CMLT to be greater than 
at the other schools to which she has been. 
Walter said that the pressure here is, no 
worse than at any other place with the same 
level of academic excellence.
There are several ways, according to Wal
ter, that students can deal with stress. First, 
he said, students should talk to their friends 
about the problem. The problem is then 
no longer a fantasy, he said. Students 
should also remember, Walter noted, that 
most problems become less acute with time.
Walter also encourages students to use the
resources available on campus, such as the 
gym, the pool, and the track. When you 
exercise for 30 to 40 minutes, he said, your 
body undergoes a physiological change, and 
creates its own high. Consuming more 
fruits, vegetables, and vitamin supplements, 
Walter noted, can also combat the effects of 
stress.
Semi-Conductor donates center
continued from page 5
established here. The other is a software 
institute for the development of software 
techniques. The institute would be physi
cally associated with CMU but not under 
the administration of the University. The 
proposal for the institute has yet to be writ
ten but a deadline has been set.
Semiconductor Research Systems has 
established a one million dollar center for 
computer-aided use of micro-circuits.
TEN YEARS 
TO YOUR
The environment at MITRE is years ahead of what others consider the state-ofthe-art.
As General Systems Engineer for C3I  Command, Control, Communications and 
Intelligence  for the U.S. Air Forces Electronic Systems Division, it is our challenge to look beyond tomorrow to the world of 5 or 10 years from now. To 
analyze and engineer one-of-a-kind systems that will be more than current well into the 1990s.
The importance of our work is why we provide an environment you can do your 
best in. Youll work with some of the most accomplished experts in their fields. 
You will be challenged by longand short-term projects in computer systems, 
systems software, systems architecture, radar systems, and satellite and terrestrial transmission. Engineers youll be working with can advance your career a 
decade in technologies including fiber-optics, computer security, sensor technology and voice recognition.
Your excellence is nurtured in every way possible at MITRE. Facilities, 
compensation and benefits to attract and keep the finest people. Full tuition advancement plus an ongoing in-house lecture series from the unique MITRE In
stitute to promote your continued education. Plus exceptional project mobility and dual career pathing to get you where you want to be, doing what you do best.
If you would like 10 more years wisdom 
MITRE. We've got the environment for it.
withou; the wrinkles  come to
Camegie-Mellon University Interviews Friday, March 4,1983
MITRE will be conducting campus interviews Friday, March 4,1983. Contact your Placement Office to arrange an interview if you are a BS, MS or Ph.D. candidate in:
Electrical Engineering 
Computer Engineering 
Computer Science 
Mathematics 
Physics
Contact your placement office to see if MITRE will be visiting your campus, 
or send your resume to Phillip Hicks at The MITRE Corporation, 
Middlesex Turnpike. Bedford, MA 01730.
U.S. Citizenship required. MITRE is an equal opportunity employer actively seeking applications under its affirmative action program.
THEENVIRONMENT TO DO WHAT YOU DO BEST.
MITRE
A committee to study the effects o! 
computers on social interaction has been 
established. It will attempt to answer the 
question: how are personal computers going 
to affect the nature of CMU?
A study funded by industrial sources 
such as GE and Westinghouse will exploit 
the social interactions between industry and 
robotics.
Other research projects that are less defi
nite include a center for the characterization 
of cells by their florescence. The center 
under the direction of D. Lansing Tayloi, 
professor of Biological Sciences, would 
involve many departments. Industry sup 
port is being sought. Eventually, the centei 
could house instrumentation for the charac 
terization of healthy and non-healthy cells
Another possible deal involves AppL 
Computers, which is looking for five or six 
schools at which the new Lisa compute! 
could be used by the student body.
Senate investigates
continued from page 1
problem, only she, Janelle Malloy, andNatf 
Solano would investigate the problem. This 
was later altered to include a member of 
SNS.
Later, the following recommendauons 
were made by unanimous vote:
1) Bill Hammerschlag will be billed fa 
the charges he made to the SNS account. Ii 
was later announced that Hammerschlag had 
continued on page 1
EXTENDED WEAR 
CONTACT LENSES
PFRMAUNS
We are pleased and excited to be offering 
extended wear soft lenses. The contacts you 
can wear continuously for up to two weeks.
Dr. Susan N. Csonka
Associated in the Practice of 
Optometry with Dr. Daniel Goldstein
Penn HillsSO9 long K..
73!-I93C
OaklandTh29 l-c.-t es A>
o2;-i9-
\s~* \ 
r I
A charismatic
prayer meetingI 1
every Friday |Smgf/|
night at 8 p.m.
at Mellon )WInstitute :'FO
Bellefield Ave.r IV(Across from\U
Heinz Chapel)
Oakland, Pa.
call Rege for
information;
262-3950.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Rape lecturer provokes a demonstration
pnoio Dy Kaj viswanatnan 
Frederic Storaska, lecturing on How to Say No to a Rapist and Survive.
By MONICA SAFRIN
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
The tension in Skibo last Monday night 
was evident the minute one walked through 
the revolving doors. The AB event sche
duled was Fred Storaskas lecture, How to 
Say No to a Rapist and Survive; the source 
of the tension were the women from Pitts
burgh Action Against Rape (PAAR) who 
were distributing leaflets entitled Why We 
-Oppose Storaska. Although director of 
Campus Activities Anne Witchner had at 
first require that CMU I.D. be shown in 
order to gain admittance into the Ballroom, 
the women from PAAR were allowed to 
attend die lecture on the condition that they 
would not be disruptive.
Storaska was introduced as a member of
the National Association for the Prevention 
of Rape and Assault and a man who has 
prevented over 275 rapes. Upon taking the 
mike, he stepped out into the audience and 
explained why he became involved in rape 
prevention. One night, 19 years ago, I inter
rupted the rape of an 11-year-old girl. Thats 
one-third of the reason, the second third is 
the fact that when I took the girl home and 
told her father what happened, he said, 
Why didnt you let them (the rapists) kill 
her? What good is she to anyone now? The 
last third of the reason is that at that time, 
there was nothing being done to prevent 
rape. I was 22-years-old, I thought I had the 
world by the tail  I felt I could do 
something.
Continuing with a discussion of rape
prevention today, Storaska said, Its all 
scare tactics. All the advice offered women 
is based on hopelessness and helplessness. 
Screaming, for example. Only rabbits 
scream  and rabbits have never won a fight in 
the whole damn history of the world. If you 
have to scream, growl instead. Wolves 
growl, rabbits scream. Wolves win, rabbits 
lose. Other tips which Storaska considered 
common were scratching a rapists eyes with 
keys and hitting him hard at the base of the 
nose. These are impractical; you wouldnt 
have the force or be at the right angle or be 
able to take him by surprise. What about 
the famous kick him where it counts? 
The groin isnt the biggest thing in the 
world, running around by itself, said Storaska. If the rapist is 61 and youre 54, 
whatre you gonna do, ask him to stoop?
Storaska advised calculated resistance 
rather than blind resistance, since what
ever you do, if it doesnt work, there might 
be a chance that it will hurt you. In other 
words, think before you react. Leave your
self a way to try something else if the first 
thing fails. The key here is survival-whatever it takes.
Asserting that the double standard in our 
society is the cause of rape, Storaska dis
cussed the aspects of our culture which he 
feels support his position. These included 
beliefs like boys who play in their high 
school bands are fruits, while the men in the 
school play football, and the peer pressure 
exhibited in groups like fraternities. Run
ning down the aisle of the Ballroom, Sto
raska demonstrated how, in the Fifties, a 
guy would run back to his frat, shouting, I 
got a breast, I got a breast! Summing up 
how our society makes rapists and rape vic
tims, Storaska said, We teach little boys to 
take. If they dont theyre failures. And we 
teach little girls to be taken.
Storaska was interrupted at that point by 
a woman who called, What does all this 
cuteness have to do with rape and violent 
crimes? He responded: Im not a feminist; 
Im a humanist. I think its sexist to be for 
one sex. Im very excited about all forms of 
equality, including (the fact that) women 
are dying sooner.
Resuming the discussion of rape, Sto
raska stated, Rape is a crime of hate and 
violence. To survive a crime of violence, you 
must defuse the violence. Isnt that easier 
said than done? Men are easily stronger and 
easily faster, but theyre not smarter, said 
Storaska. Women should use what theyve 
got  their brains. He explained: Rapists 
want to dehumanize their victims. That is 
why they often take their victims from 
behind, or cover their faces. You can emo
tionally overpower a rapist by treating him 
as a human being  he wont expect that. 
Storaska suggests two ways to fight a 
rapist. One is to move your hands lovingly 
over his face (to buy time, gain his trust) and 
then put out his eyes with your thumbs. 
Another is to place your hand tenderly on 
his testicles  hell expose himself for you
 and SMASH. Those women who have 
qualms about the above methods should 
attempt anything weird: Throw up on 
him, urinate on him, pretend youre an epi
leptic, tell him youre menstruating. Youre 
literally living by your imagination.
With Storaskas permission, memebers of 
the audience began asking questions. One 
woman from PAAR asked Storaska about 
continued on page 11
Women against rape cry out against Storaska and consent
continued from page 1
that way, said Ann Sadler, a representative 
from PAAR. Women think hes cute and 
adorable, but hes just after a quick buck. He 
makes up to $3000 a lecture while expecting 
women to act like simps. He treats rape like 
its a joke. Im happy about what went on in 
there. I would do it again.
One woman who attended the lecture, 
Maureen Kehr, commented to the women 
outside the ballroom that he appeared 
more professional, although they, (the 
PAAR women) wer right. He is offensive 
and humiliates women, but he appeared in 
control. Hes been lecturing for a long time 
and knows how to twist your words 
around.
Storaska defended himself and his 
methods after the women left the ballroom. 
The thing that those radical feminists 
dont like about me is that Im a man. 
When asked about the light-hearted way 
that he discuss rape, he commented, Every 
woman who has ever spoken to me has 
remembered my humor first. Style comes 
first in a lecture. I feel that a lot of women 
arent offended by my style.
His methods arent proven yet he gua
rantees them, said Sadler. He says that a 
women should fondle a rapist if necessary to 
8am the rapists confidence. What do you 
think that does to a woman psychologi
cally? How do you think that that will hold 
UP in court?
Storaska quotes some true facts, admit
ted Sadler, but he says that his is a sure fire 
Method of rape prevention and there are a 
number of different ways to handle the 
Sltuation. It depends upon the person. He 
!sn 1 even legitimate. He says that hes the 
ounder of the National Association to preent rape and assault. You know how many
members that organization has? One. Him. 
PAAR helps thousands of rape and assault 
victims a year and he downgrades organiza
tions like it.
Doesnt it seem strange that NOW is 
opposed to this guy? added PAAR repre
sentative Linda Cordisco.
I heard every word that he said, com
mented CMU student Dorothy Cockrell. It
wasnt until after I heard it all that I under
stood w hy he used his lecture style. As much 
as we, (the audience), tried to block out those 
other women, he had a tough time putting 
out his point of view while defending 
himself.
Cockrell went on to say, I think that 
what the PAAR women were saying con
cerned what happens after a rape. How it
will hold up in court. Storaska is dealing 
with ways to prevent rape. What he says is to 
think about what youre doing. Going 
along with it can keep a woman from get
ting killed. I think that the way these 
women attacked him, made the CMU stu
dents jump to the defense of this man. He 
essentially has us on his side. He gave the 
women confidence when faced with what 
had been considered a hopeless situation.
Women's Educational Alliance at CMU
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Women unite!! You now have an organi
zation representing you. Its the Womens 
Educational Alliance, in its first year here at 
CMU.
WEA was formed to explore issues con
cerning women, including lesbian/gay 
rights, ERA, and gender roles. Elise Dodelis, 
the head of the WEA, wants to address these 
issues through speakers and films. WEA 
hopes to get speakers on women in art, his
tory, literature and other professional areas. 
The big project is Womens History' Week, 
which will take place the first week of 
March. For History Week they hope to get a 
woman writer, have an information table 
and have a book fair.
Dodelis is aiming to get really good 
speakers and stresses the need for people 
who will help get films and speakers.
When asked why she formed this organi
zation, Dodelis replied that when she first 
came to CMU she was very' upset because 
there was no womens organization. 
Dodelis welcomes all interested people. 
Meetings are held every two weeks in Skibo; 
the next meeting will be Sunday, February 
20 at 2:30 p.m.Elise Dodelis, head of the Womens Educational Alliance
photo by Snkanth Rajan

---------------------------------------------------

wanna buy some 
quality weed?
*A19 
b.
/IR0
S3
photer
ompsrvsF 8y,h 9y,h 4 10y, 
d19p8 bsvF 3vyyms
Funded by the Student Activities

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1983The TartanPage 9
olocaust survivor emotionally recalls horrors
y SCOTT SAFIER
artan Staffuniier
Tonight, when I go home, I will not go 
sleep. Im afraid I will dream. Sometimes 
e dreams are so real... This is the reality 
t Mrs. Erika Lautin, a survivor of fifteen 
rman concentration camps, conveyed to 
e Holocaust course last Wednesday 
ight. Mrs. Lautin was nine when Hitler 
se to power in 1933. Today I would know 
hat to do, then I didnt.
Lautin recalled the time before Hitler, 
specially Friday nights  the Jewish sabath. Her father would return from shule 
the synagogue  give her mother, the 
labbas queen, yellow roses, and partake of 
e customary meal. However, Hitlers rise 
power changed this.
Laws were passed which forced the Jews 
wash cars with their tullas (prayer 
awls) and turn their radios over to the 
uthorities. Other acts prohibited dating 
utside of the faith and restricted the clothes 
ev could wear  including forcing them 
wear yellow stars labelling them 
JUDE. Jews were given special ration 
rds for food which were not honored by 
e groceries. Maids were not allowed to 
~rve Jewish households. Jews were 
eprived of their proud German citizenship.
d, all Jewish girls were robbed of their 
ames. They were all Sarah.
eating the system
Then Erika Lautin was taken to the work 
camps. She was seized from school, stripped, 
and herded into a truck. Germans who dis
agreed with this action threw blankets to the 
naked children. The S.S. punished these 
German dissidents.
In the camps, Lautin was forced to sleep 
on straw. Others were stacked on top of her, 
the excretions dropping on her. The guards
had fun with the prisoners, forcing them 
to line up and polish their boots, and then 
beat them. She witnessed many atrocities.
When a transport would arrive with 
mothers and their babies, they were separ
ated into two lines, one for mothers, one for 
the new-born. The S.S. picked up the 
babies by their necks and feet. They ripped 
the babies apart in front of their mothers,
photo by Scott Safier
Erika Lautin, a survivor of 15 German concentration camps.
remembered Lautin.
Lautin was also forced to take part in 
three experiments. To this day, she cannot 
talk about them, but she thinks that die is 
the only survivor to have children; all three 
were premature, and the last one was bom 
with cerebral palsy. Lautin was liberated on 
Friday, April 13, 1945 by American soldiers.
This is the sixth year Lautin has 
addressed the Holocaust course. The course, 
offered by H&SS Interdisciplinary, was 
authorized by Dean Swank. The course is 
taught by Rabbi Joseph Levine, Reverend 
Paul Sampsell, and Sister Bernadette 
Young. It is the only course in the country 
that I know of to take an inter-religious 
perspective to the Holocaust, comments 
Rabbi Levine. The plight of American Indi
ans, Russian Jews and South American citi
zens  contemporary Holocausts  are also 
discussed.
Lautin comments, I remember my father 
saying, It could happen in Russia; it could 
happen in Poland; but, it cant happen 
here. That was in Germany in 1934. 
Today, she sees it happening again. During 
the 1973 oil embargo, Lautin recalled seeing 
two bumper stickers which read Bum the 
Jews, not the oil. When there is only one 
Nazi in Pittsburgh, says Lautin, it is 
dangerous.
ew format for column has 3 varying sections
y ALEX CZAJKOWSKI
artan Staffuniter
This aiticle is initiating a new format for 
is column: each issue will have three parts, 
irst, Ill be writing about fairly basic things 
r new' users, things experienced users take 
r granted. Second, there will be a section 
r current topics, questions from you, et 
etera, hopefully of interest to all. The third 
nd last section of each column will usually 
some weird trick Ive run into, of interest
COMAND.CMD, hinted at last week, is 
e name of the file in which to put your 
CL declarations. The difference between 
is file and LOGIN.CMD is that although 
th are read by the system automatically 
hen you login, COMAND.CMD will be 
ead anytime you PUSH to a new EXEC 
evel. PUSH? EXEC level? If this sounds 
otally alien to you, you probably dont need 
COMAND.CMD (yetV 
Unlike LOGIN.CMD, you dont want to 
ut in COMAND.CMD any command you
you want to read a BBOARD every time you 
login, put the BBOARD command in your 
LOGIN.CMD. Totally confused? Then 
dont worry about it, just pick up last weeks 
Tartan and read about the LOGIN.CMD 
file.
New System News: If youve used the 
command: SET DIRECTORY AC
COUNT^ AC 1H] N341, which makes speci
fying an account at login unnecessary, 
youve probably noticed a message telling 
you what account youre using. That mes
sage, at first just telling you the account 
number, now SLOWLY putting out the 
account title, can be avoided by specifying 
your account when you login, e.g. LOGIN 
AC1H N341.
The message is the Comp Centers way of
telling you to what account youre charging 
your usage, and it isnt a bad idea. As the 
Comp Center becomes more, shall we say 
stringent?, with accounts, it is more impor
tant to be Account Conscious.
Weird Stuff: SCRIBE has two options I 
rarely hear of people using, and maybe for a 
good reason, but I think theyre kind of fun. 
Try this next time youre in SCRIBE: 
PAPER2:MSS/VOCAB.
SCRIBE will go ahead and create the nor
mal output and error files, but it will also 
create a file called, in this case, PAPER2.- 
LEX. In .LEX will be a count of each word 
you used in the file. Thrilling, isnt it? After 
creating the output file, SCRIBE will tell 
you how many different words are in the 
file. The file of words and their frequency is
in alphabetical order.
SCRIBE will also give you a word count 
if you ask for one. When youre in SCRIBE, 
just add the switch: PAPER2.MSS/WORDS. After creating the output file, 
SCRIBE will tell you how many words are 
in the text, and how many words are for 
Display, or I assume, SCRIBE com
mands. SPELL and ISPELL will give you 
word counts, true, but only this option of 
SCRIBE will differentiate between SCRIBE 
commands and text. Naturally, both 
switches can be used on the same SCRIBE 
run by typing, while in SCRIBE: 
PAPER2.MSS/WORDS/VOCAB. Why 
you might want to do this is beyond me 
(well, I have a few inklings), but you should 
know' that the options exist.
Marcelle's Typing Service
Specializes in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
uv.. 3CP OmCy fBSDf:UB 
zqk ,8rs Cms09m/
10% discount with coupon
Allegheny Womens Center
in out patient medical clinic offering
* abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests 
personal counseling * birth control services
* gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412) 687-TEST
Hl>,h * b* open dill, lo* prrgnmo .nd loumrhng.
/\ //pDn/)lll i Medic jl Center East Building 
|M/ * Penthouse Kixht (8th floor)VVOtnpn f 211 North Whitfield StreetCenter
The discoveries continue. . .
Hughes
In 1947 a man flew the Flying Boat, 
Hercules"  the largest airplane in 
the world.
The man was Howard Robard Hughes.
His ingenious ideas and explorations 
brought new discoveries in 
aerodynamics, communications, 
avionics, electronics .
And the early years of Hughes Aircraft 
Company.
Today, Hughes 
no longer builds
airplanes but the discoveries
and exploration of ideas continue
Story.
The companys long history of 
technological firsts, including the first 
working laser, first 3-D radar, and first 
synchronous-orbit spacecraft, position 
Hughes as a world leader in today's 
electronics industry. Company-wide 
opportunities:
 Electrical, Mechanical, Manufacturing 
or Industrial Engineering * Materials
 Computer Science  Physics
 Industrial/Electronic Technology
Requirements may vary. Check with 
your placement office for more details 
Find out how you can be part of the 
continuing Hughes Story in twelve 
Southern California locations and 
Tucson, Arizona.
Hughes Story. Write yourself in.
Hughes Corporate College Relations Dept. NC, Bldg. C2/B178 P.O. Box 1042 El Segundo. CA 90245
Hughes representatives 
will be on campus
February 9
(See your placement office for an 
appointment.)
Equal Opportunity Employer 
U S Citizenship Required
Creating a new world with electronics
Write yourseU in. HUGHES
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPAN

---------------------------------------------------

PREPARE FOR
MCAT'LSAT'GMAT 
SAT DAT GRE  CPA
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH 4 BiO  MAT  PCAT. OCAT  ViT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NDB  NLE
/\MM O\ys Evu i Weri^nd
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Essex House Li 2N
 Corners Center, Negtey & Baunr 
Pittsburgh. Pa. 15206
661-2772
50 
ALBUM SALEI?
TUE S. FEB. 8THRU SAT. FEB. 12
TM is the science for those who want more from life
Page 10The TartanFebruary 8, 1983
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
On Thursday, February 3, Jonathan and 
Judy Finkle erf the Pittsburgh Age of 
Enlightment Center presented a lecture on 
Unlocking the Potential erf the Individual 
through Transcendental Meditation.
One of the things that the Finkles stressed 
was that TM is not a mystic event, but a 
specific technique. TM doesnt take life in 
a new direction, Jonathan Finkle says. It 
accelerates lifes natural impulse to grow, 
which is often blocked by stresses and 
strains. Its not spaced-out. It is an increased 
ability to concentrate, to focus the mind. 
What TM is, according to the Finkles, is a 
way of finding "pure consciousness. The 
mind becomes more and more powerful, 
intelligent, and happy. They point out 
that people normally use only 5-10% of their 
minds. Its like the ocean, says Judy Fin
kle. In our everyday lives, we just swim 
along on the surface, where the waves toss us 
around. In TM we learn to dive deeper into 
consciousness, until we finally come to rest 
on the ocean floor. At this deepest level of 
consciousness, there is an unlimited reser
voir of power, happiness, and intelligence. 
TM is a combination of deep rest  the 
bodys metabolic rate falls twice as far as 
during regular sleep  and increased men
tal alertness. This deep rest allows the ner
vous system to release the stress that builds 
up over the years.
Once these stresses are released, an indi
viduals life improves in all of its aspects. 
Scientific studies have shown that TM can 
improve grades, aid concentration and 
memory, and even raise a persons IQ. Phys
ically, TM practice can reduce stress hor
mones in the blood, increase cardio-vascular 
efficiency, and improve athletic ability. TM 
also help a person socially. Since the TM 
user is happier, says Finkle, you enjoy peo
ple more, and people enjoy you more.
Transcendental Meditation is a science, 
Finkle says, like physics. Though it was 
discovered in India thousands of years ago, 
it is not Eastern, or in any way incompati
ble with Western thinking. TM isnt a lifes
tyle, notes Finkle. It is a simple technique 
that is practiced twice a day for twenty min
utes at a time.
Actually, TM is not practiced any more 
widely in India than in the U.S. The reason 
that so few people practice TM is that the 
knowledge has traditionally been handed 
down from student to teacher in a narrow, 
select group.
Today that is being changed.
Mahesh Yogi, the founder of the present-day 
TM program, is trying to make knowledge 
of Transcendental Meditation available to 
as many people as possible. The Pittsburgh 
Age of Enlightenment Center, and 
days lecture, is one way to do that.
The lecture was the first step in the 
ters TM program. Anyone interested in 
learning the TM technique would then 
attend a second lecture, describing the tech
nique in more detail.
That lecture is followed by one lesson of 
personal instruction. If we could teach it 
over TV, we would, Finkle says. But 
an experiential process, and only personal 
instruction will do it. After one personal 
lesson, TM students meet in groups for three 
more lessons in one week.
After the four lessons, you essentially 
have the technique, Finkle says. Yet the 
student is required to return to the Center 
once a week for a month, and once a month 
for a year afterward, to make sure that the 
technique is being performed to give maxi
mum benefit.
The cost of the program is $175 for stu
dents, $250 for others, or $325 for a family. 
This includes the four lessons, periodic 
returns to check the technique, and weekly 
lectures on advanced aspects of TM, if the 
individual wants to attend them, at the Cen
ter, 5808 Forbes Ave. Its essentially a life
time plan, Finkle says, and considering 
the benefits, its worth it. The organization 
is a non-profit one. According to Finkle 
No one is getting rich on TM.
The second lecture in the series, which 
explains the TM technique in detail, will be 
held Thursday, February 10, at 8:15 p.m. in 
Porter Hall 126C. The lecture is free, and 
according to Finkle, Anyone who wants 
more in life should attend. When we trans
cend, we reach the unlimited reservoir of 
pure potential at the center of the mind, a 
potentiality that shows up as improvements 
in all areas of life. Who can turn that down?
 Permanent Centers open days, 
evenings and weekends.
 Low hourly cost. Oedicated full
time staff.
 Complete TEST-n-TAPEsvfacilities 
for review of class lessons and 
supplementary materials.
 Small classes taught by skilled 
instructors.
 Opportunity to make up missed 
lessons.
 Voluminous nome-study materials 
constantly updated by research
ers expert in their field.
 Opportunity to transfer to-and 
continue study at any of our 
over 85 centers.
Novices, Masters & Non-Masters Welcome
Free Entry Coupon 
Pittsburgh Bridge Association 
Friday Night Duplicate Game
Good for first 
time entry only
Time: 8:15
Place: Pittsburgh Blind Association 
200 S. Craig St 
Pgh., PA 15213
For Partners or Information, 
call
Lawrence Pikovsky 521-4162 
Roni Gitchel 421-2328
GARBAGE RECORDS
3710 FORBES AVE., 2nd FLOOR 
(NEXT TO McDONALDS) 
OPEN 11-8 DAILY  11-6 SAT.

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1983The TartanPage 11
WE CAN HELP!
X
emu bcckstcre*
Healthworks visits CMU
 ^ ' %
Tech rocked with Vaughn Monroe
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffwriter
10 YEARS AGO: Feb. 6, 1973
John Sisson of SAE is now the first presi
dent of the United Fraternal Organization, 
formed on January 29 by the merger of the 
Council of Fraternity Presidents with the 
Panhellenic Council. He suggests that the 
merger, among the first of its kind in the 
nation (The University of Massachusetts has 
a similar union) will strengthen all eleven 
fraternities and that the five sororities will, 
in particular, benefit from closer ties with 
the men and less identification with 
womens dorms.
Student Senate has proposed that the 
Student Activities Fee be increased from $10 
per semester to $12.50 per semester for the 
1973-74 school year. The reasons underlying 
this motion, which was presented by Tanya 
Allmond, are inflation and the increasing 
demands for better student activities. This
proposal, which also includes the separa
tion of the mandatory fee on the student bill, 
will only become effective if the tuition 
remains at $1240 per semester, and President 
Cyert can forsee no tuition increase.
30 YEARS AGO: Feb. 10, 1953 
The centurys most famous singing 
band leader, Vaughn Monroe, will bring his 
entire Racing With the Moon Camel Car
avan to the Tech campus on Monday, Feb
ruary 16. At that time, he will offer a musical 
salute to the college as part of his nation
wide program. The show, to be held in the 
gym at 3:30 pm, will be recorded and heard 
Saturday, February 21 at 7:30 pm, over the 
coast-to-coast CBS network ... In conjunc
tion with the show, Student Council con
ducted a poll determining the most popular 
Vaughn Monroe recording among 
Techites. The results were in favor of 
Dance, Ballerina, Dance, which Monroe 
will sing on his broadcast.
The first session in the series of seven 
took place a week from last Monday and 
introduced the audience to the program 
in general. Future programs will cover 
nutrition, strength and flexibility, stress 
management, physiological measure
ment, aerobics, and motivation and 
maintenance of health behavior.
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
Opinions dash
continued from page 7
his preference for the word penetration 
over rape. Should we be calling ourselves 
Pittsburgh Action Against Penetration? 
Storaska defended himself on the grounds 
that he was trying to take away the fear 
that the word "rape connotes.
Another woman raised the point: If a 
woman does what you say (submits without 
a struggle) and gets raped, most courts of 
jaw will consider it consent. The rapist 
wont be convicted. Storaska replied: We 
want to prevent rape. If you want to win in 
court, let yourself get raped and stabbed.
Comments like that enraged the women 
from PAAR and they began calling out. 
Storaska told them to use your brains; both 
sides of the cranium. He said one woman 
was dippy, and that all of them were so 
emotionally unstable that there was no 
point in hearing them out. The women 
from PAAR retorted: You would never 
have gotten $3,000 from the University if 
your goal was to change mens attitudes 
about men, and You just want other peo
ples opinions of you and your own power. 
Students in the audience sided with Stoiaska, shouting back to the PAAR people:
FREDERIC STORASKA
Youve managed to turn women off (to the 
issue); why dont you just leave.
Apparendy fed up with the attitudes of 
Storaska, the audience, and Campus Police 
(who were trying to keep them quiet), the 
women from PAAR left the Ballroom. Sto
raskas final comments about them were: 
Women are against me because Im a man. 
They dont want to hear it from men any
more. He added, The womens movement 
has been ineffectual in the last five years. 
Hes not about to start taking estrogen for 
them.
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
Healthworks, an educational and fit
ness organization, has once again come 
to the CMU campus. For the next two 
weeks students who are interested in tak
ing care of their bodies can go to the 
Healthworks Assessment and Education 
Program series at 7 p.m. Monday and 
Thursday in Skibo. Steve Zelicoff and Jack 
Tomayko, founders of Healthworks, were 
asked to do the health awareness series after 
their program a few weeks ago in health 
fitness assessment. That program success
fully attracted a total of 247 people.
that road to fitness is through a life-style 
change. It is, according to the programs 
founders, a lifetime movement.
Tomayko was not worried about the 
small size of the first session and expects 
attendance to vary from program to pro
gram. Both Zelicoff and Tomayko recom
mend students to come to all sessions.
In the first session the audience exhi
bited much interest in what was being 
said and posed many relevant and impor
tant questions. In that first session the 
audience of fifteen was composed mainly 
of male students; of the three women who 
attended, none were of college age.
Both Zelicoff and Tomayko are 
instructors at Point Park College. 
Healthworks was incorporated approxi
mately fifteen months ago in hopes of 
teaching people how to get away from 
traditional health programs. They hope 
to teach health awareness and to show
Now___
e(8 AsmL)v)F 
emCy9)L w8vy98)C
o8s v Wsmm smL)v)F ymCy v) 
8)W9m)y9v. ,m.h v.. 
Birthright vy :qSDS*66
photo by ankantn Kajan
STEVE ZELICOFF
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be?
gv1.v)
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh. PA I52I3 
(412) 683-3730
i8()y8()
625 Stanwix Street 
I2th FloorAllegheny Tower 
Pittsburgh. PA I5222 
(412) 562-I9I4
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call for hours and 
instructions. Confidential counseling available
Womens
Health
Services

---------------------------------------------------

You can send a valentine of up to 
twenty words for only fifty cents.
Heres what you have to do:
 Type your valentine greeting of twenty 
words or less.
 Turn in your message along with the fifty 
cents to the Tartan Skibo 52 by Thursday Feb
ruary 10 at five p.m.
 Be sure to include your name and phone 
number (for Tartan reference only).
The Tartan reserves the right to edit or withhold from publication any classified it deems unfit for publication.
think you're really funny? ^
pi
The Tartan is looking for a few good strips. JA
If you think your strip is good enough, frM 
come down to The Tartan office Srnj (j\
at 50 Skibo and see '\ ff/\ 
/x Mike Sussman. O,PaO
^. Q im
(ALMOST) FREE TARTAN VALENTINE 
CLASSIFIEDS

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
More computer news: design and music applications
Avery show: 
expression
I CAROLYN TERNER
fartan Staffwriter
An important exhibition of paintings by 
the artist Milton Avery is currently on dis
play at the Scaife Gallery at Carnegie Insti
tute, Forbes Avenue. The show opened on 
the fifteenth of January and will 
run until the sixth of March.
Jr Barbara Haskell, organizer of
' the exhibit and its catalogue, is a
curator at the Whitney Museum of Ameri
can Art in New York where the show origi
nated. The show will travel to four cities in 
the United States after it closes in 
Pittsburgh.
Milton Avery attended art school in Con
necticut in his early twenties, where he won 
prizes for his figure drawings and portraits. 
He then moved to New York, where he mar
ried Sally Michel, also an artist. There they 
both attended the Art Students League of 
New York, and became involved with the 
current American Art scene; this was the 
time when both Picasso and Matisse were 
exhibiting in New York and Paris. Avery is 
said to be majorly influenced by both 
Picasso and Matisse throughout his career.
Averys paintings reveal a subde, master
ful use of color and a sophisticated use of 
line. The compositions are simple, consist
ing primarily of landscapes and figures. 
Averys figures seem to be strongly influ
enced by Picasso. For instance, in the com
position Seated Blonde, a white figure is set 
against a background of simple, geometric 
shapes; there is something about the lines in 
the composition that are strongly cubistic. 
In Averys still life Table with Fruit, the 
composition speaks of Picasso and Braques 
earlier works, with its strong, diagonal lines.
In Averys earlier works, however, we see 
the influence of German expressionism. His 
use of bold colors and simple, expressionisttype figures show a sense of versatility in the 
work. Another intriguing facet of Averys 
work is the monoprints; one single work
solfege (ear training), which is taught on 
campus, and electronic/computer music, 
available only at the University of 
Pittsburgh.
The large-scale integration erf computers 
and the music department will not take 
place in the foreseeable future. In fact, the 
most immediate departmental concern is 
determining what goals for computer usage 
exist. Next, they will research these goals, 
and eventually add the products of the 
research to the curriculum.
Franklin plans to remain open-minded 
about possibilities. I dont want to miss 
anything, he remarks. If the potential is 
there, it is only logical to see and accept it.
Poets read to Gustine's crowd
By LESLIE BRUNKER
Tartan Staffwriter 
President Cyerts desire for CMU to live 
more in the limelight via computers can 
easily be seen through work in the design 
department. Says Department Head Joseph 
Ballay, CMU will have a chance to be in a 
leadership role in the field of computeraided design (CAD).
Ballay has high hop>es for computers in 
his department because of what he describes 
as a symbiotic relationship between com
puters and design. Computers are good for 
design and design is good for computers.
He sees good graphics as the most signifi
cant thing in the design since the human 
factors movement.
There is, of course, a negative aspect. Bal
lay sees CAD as a seductive medium, one 
that can make the designer forget the under
lying value system inherent in the field of 
design.
To nullify this aspect, Ballay feels his 
department must develop two strong 
themes in its curriculum: first, a stress on 
the symbiotic relationship; second a design 
foundation program with courses focusing 
on traditional skills, artistic values and pro
fessional attitudes. Maintaining the balance 
between new technology' and traditional 
methods is the key to a successful program.
The design department is currently 
engaged in a research project with IBM 
called the CMU/IBM Joint Usability Study, 
which is not a part of the celebrated compu
ter deal the university has with IBM. The 
purpose of the study is to discover how exist
ing CAD systems effect the design process 
and what changes or improvements in the 
systems can help designers.
The place of the computers in the depart
ment of music is not so clear. According to 
Department Head Harry Franklin, compu
ters enjoy very limited use in the music cur
riculum today. Two existing courses are
Ochester has had many of his poetry 
books published and has also had his poetry 
featured in periodicals such as the Georgia 
Review, the Ohio Review, and Poetry Now. 
His books include: Dancing on the Edges of 
Knives that was published by the University 
of Missouri Press in 1973 and won the Dev
ins Award for poetry, End of the Ice Age that 
was published by the Slow Loris Press in 
1977. In addition, A Drift of Swine was pub
lished by Thunder City Press in 1981.
Ochester read many selections including 
pieces from Miracle Mile, his latest manus
cript. Poems about his family included 
Uncle Manfred, Cooking, and For My 
continued on pop 17
Part of the Milton Avery exhibits at Carnegie Institute is Dark Forest, an oil on canvas from 1958. The Avery show will be at 
the Institute until March 6.
consisting of five lines of cream on a green, 
painted ground, stands out. It is this level of 
simplicity that Avery pursues in his later 
works; as the level of abstraction increases, 
the compositions become more sublime.
Averys later works deal with these three 
elements uniquely and superbly: line, color, 
and form. His sea scapes are airy and deli
cate, yet some are earthy and sensual. His use 
of thin, oil color washes combine with deli
cate lines to make meditative, peaceful com
positions. In Sea and Dunes II, Avery paints 
a pink shape for the beach, a pale yellow for 
the dunes, a green border on the dunes, a 
light blue sky, and a sea that is made up of
dark blue and black sensual strokes. 
Although the composition can be described 
in terms of its five elements, it is still very 
sophisticated  i.e., the way Avery com
bines the elements to form a whole composi
tion. His unique vision persists throughout 
all of his later works.
When one sees Averys work, one sees 
almost a naive, imaginative artist at work. 
But the question is, how deliberate was 
Avery in his style of simplicity? One can 
easily overlook draftsmanship for color as 
the chief force of Averys style; but the simple 
truth is that Averys unique forms come out 
of a love for drawing, not just a love for
color. Granted, Avery is a great colorist. But 
Averys forms could not achieve their 
renewed presence without draftsmanship 
being an important problem for the artist.
As Barbara Haskell said in her catalogue, 
Avery bridged the gap between abstract and 
realist art. When American painters were 
painting realism, Avery pursued his own 
form of it. And when American artists 
moved through abstraction, Avery main
tained his own aesthetic. Avery is one of 
Americas great artists; the show of his paint
ings at the Scaife Gallery is one not to be 
missed.
riUSlU IV V TV71II
A designer at work: soon the design department will feel more effects of computers.
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffwriter
On Tuesday, February 1, two poets were 
featured in the Back Room at Frankie Gustines. Ed Ochester and Mike Qiabon read 
selections of their poetry to what Doug Cur
rier, coordinator of the program, referred to 
as the biggest crowd he can remember 
since the Tuesday Night Poetry series 
originated.
Ed Ochester has been the head of the Writ
ing Program at the University of Pittsburgh 
for five years and has been general editor of 
the Pitt Poetry Series for four. He is a gradu
ate of Cornell University and received an 
MA from Harvard University.

---------------------------------------------------

Date:
Time:
Place:
Sunday, February 13 
7 p.m.
Skibo Ballroom 
Free Admission
Funded by Activities fee
____
-'4M;.

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1983The TartanPage 15
"Sophie's Choice*Your "Choice:" read the book or see the film?
By DEBBIE NIR
fortan Staffwnter
Sometimes audiences are lucky enough to 
be witnesses to great novels tinning into 
even greater cinema, as in Gone With The 
Wind or The Godfather. Then there are 
times when luck fails and great 
stories are twisted by screen wri
ters for one reason or another.
I Such is the case with William
Styrons novel Sophies Choice. In the 
iecendy released film of the book, the 
emphasis of the story has been shifted to 
Styrons account of Sophie Zawistowskas 
slowly crumbling life after her escape from 
death, and the corroding after-effects of the 
Holocaust.
Less developed in the movie are two 
equally important characters in the novel  
Sophies half-crazed lover Nathan Landau 
and Stingo, a young aspiring writer and 
narrator of the story, whose expectations of 
New York are only brought to life after 
meeting Sophie and Nathan. Both of these 
characters are epics in themselves, but Alan 
J. Pakulas screen adaptation has made 
them only more straws added to break 
Sophies back.
The movie begins as Stingo moves into 
Yetta Zimmermans boarding house, other
wise known as the Pink Palace (its painted 
pink outside and inside), in 1947 Brooklyn.
Unfortunately theres not a hint of the hilar
ious tidbits of the publishing world des
cribed with bite by Styron in the novel. Also 
found throughout the book, but missing 
from the film, is Stingos loving but tug-ofwar relationship with his father, not to men
tion his observations of the differences 
between the North and South.
After Stingo meets his eccentric neighbors 
upstairs, Sophie and Nathan, Sophies story 
about her life in Poland, her emotional tor
ture in the Auschwitz concentration camp, 
and her pre-Nathan stay in Brooklyn are 
finely unraveled in a fashion any mystery 
writer would envy. Paralleling Sophies 
tragic life, we slowly discover Nathans chil
ling story, and although it should be as 
tearing as Sophies, it is not half as heart
breaking because of Nathans under
developed character.
There are, however, two elements of the 
film that the exquisitely detailed novel 
could never capture  the horrors of Ausch
witz and the performance of Meryl Streep as 
Sophie. Styron has often been accused of 
treating the Holocaust with a light touch, 
but production designer George Jenkins, 
with the help of a Yugoslavian location and 
the brown tint coloring of the film, has 
added more horrifying reality to Sophies 
stay in the camp than Styron might have 
ever thought possible. Through the muddrenched air it is Streeps performance, how
ever, that truly brings out the monstrosities 
of the massacre.
In Streeps every move, from portraying 
Sophies pathetic anemic days when lifting 
herself out of a chair was a major battle, to 
her efforts at beating back death, she emits 
grief and devastation that would make 
Anna Karenina proud. From her first 
entrance, with her red-rimmed eyes and 
slighdy manipulative Polish accent, Streep 
grabs our pity and never lets go. Although 
most of her roles have had that underlying 
current of oppression, Sophie gives her the 
opportunity to fight back in front of our 
eyes, (in Kramer vs. Kramer she did her 
inner-conflict batding off-screen).
The epitome of this is one of the two 
stunning scenes of the movie  the choice 
that is the force behind all of her actions. 
Watching this scene, one would think he 
was in a revival movie-house watching 
Greta Garbo. Although her Sophie is a clas
sic of American film, one hopes Streep will 
bring as much to future characters as she 
had to this role.
With what litde hes given by Pakulas 
chomping pen, Kevin Kline manages to por
tray a sympathetic yet tragically romantic 
Nathan. Jumping from giving to extract
ing, Kline is perfect for Pakulas vision of 
Nathan. Everything Nathan does, includ
ing the other stunning scene erf the film, 
ironically not one included in the novel, is 
as theatrical as Klines intense stage roles.
With the Brooklyn Bridge as his stage and 
the Manhattan skyline as his backdrop, 
Nathan delivers a tribute to past writers of 
the New York shores and includes Stingo as 
a new entry into this select group. Klines 
sedate, smooth delivery of the speech makes 
us truly believe what Stingo says as the 
camera pans out over New York: How 
could I have failed to have the most helpless 
crush on such a generous mind ... Nathan 
was utterly, fatally glamorous.
It is only in his more intimate scenes, his 
fights with Sophie, that Kline turns overdramatic, unable to tone down his acting 
abilities for the peering eye of the camera.
As for Peter MacNicols Stingo , there is 
not much to say simply because the charac
ter speaks so little in the film, and when he 
does, it is usually a dumbfounded question. 
Since we leam so litde about Stingo, it is 
impossible to tell how his summer with the 
pair of lovers has educated him.
If youve already read Sophies Choice, go 
to the film as though you havent. You will 
enjoy a magnificent performance, and an 
intriguing psychological mystery. If you 
havent read the novel, see the movie for the 
above reasons, then read the book ... to see 
what could have been.
Forbes Gallery artists use art as communication
By SARAH RATCHYE
Special to the Tartan 
A variety of media, images, and styles 
comprise the current show at Forbes 
Gallery. The fiber work, photography, 
paintings, illustrations, and drawings dem
onstrate the creativity and neces
sary communicative skills of the 
three illustrators, Lynette 
Cubetta, Lynn Latona, and 
Mary Jo McMahon.
Lynn Latonas graphic drawings show a 
concern for the precise rendering of form. 
One self portrait shows her face; close up 
and cropped at the forehead and upper-lip, 
before a bright light. While working with 
her subject under strong light, Latona 
softens the sharp forms and creates an undu
lation of light across the drawing. Her draw
ings are small, inviting the viewer to observe 
the detail and lovely forms closely.
In one drawing of a crumpled camisole, 
the folds and lace hold abstract, shifting 
patterns of light. The forms seem to radiate 
the soft and pastel fabric of the subject 
Latona is also exhibiting photographic 
reproductions of her illustrations. These 
reproductions will be used in the presenta
tion of a professional illustrators portfolio. 
Reproduction flattens the layering of medi
ums used in an illustration and is the way 
the illustration is published.
Mary Jo McMahons photographs are 
splendid examples of the photographers
treatment of color, light, and mood. The 
artist has caught and photographed the 
most beautiful moment of a landscape or 
still-life. Lavender light from the just-set 
sun darkens the cracks in a ferrys window 
and creates a jagged pattern over the sea and 
sky.
Although a used subject, McMahons 
photograph of tulips shows the artists sensi
tivity to mood and color. The bright yellow 
seduces the viewer to revel in luxurious sur
face. However, with a second look the yel
low becomes a disguise for the lifeless,
severely perfect petals that are made of metal 
hard plastic. McMahons tulips were 
real flowers.
The artist is also exhibiting drawings, 
a woodcut, and paintings of animals.
The fiber work by Lynette Cubetta con
sists of layers of woven and colored lands
capes. Pastel, geometric symmetry 
comprises her long tapestry. Vertical breaks 
in the weave separate and emphasize the 
colored squares, triangles, and rectangles 
from the textural ground wreave.
The artists small tapestries show vibrant
color and intricate layering of symbol, color 
and line. One tapestry contains geometric 
symbolism that shows fish, farmland, sea, 
and mountains, and, at the top, the oudine 
of a casdes walls. In another work, the artist 
used free strands to show an explosion or 
celebration within the tapestry.
Cubettas presentation with rubylith 
transparencies to indicate desired colors for a 
finished illustration will enlighten the 
viewer as to the process of illustration. The 
artists photographs, drawings and paint
ings are also at the gallery.
TERIMINALS
GDC
CRTSPRINTERS
 TELEVIDEO EPSONPORTABLES
DEC OKIDATAMODEMS
 ADDS NEC SPINWRITERCOUPLERS
 DEC DATASOUTH
 VISUAL TECH. DEC
 G ITOH G.E.
PRINTERS
788-4800
We Spedali 
In Interfacing 
Peripherals To 
Computers
 COME SEE THEM IN OUR SHOWROOM!GENERAL DATA CO., INC.
5173 CAMPBELL'S RUN ROAD 
PITTSBURGH. PA 15205
oNIKO'S moso
PREGNANT? Call ATA 
Let's talk about your options.
HOTUNE; (412) 731-2420 
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706 
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. W; 11 a.m.-1 p.m. 
MTTFS
Free and confidential informa
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services.
nweIMlneE2Id eg nTgMeEgl 
Elu
a non-profit organization
JoP'e
$5.00 minimum order

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanFebruary 8, 1983
Special
Interest
Houses
The Housing Office is now accepting applications from groups of students who 
would like to be considered for residency in one of the 4 Special Interest 
Houses.
Each Special Interest House is a 4-bedroom, 8-person apartment in the Mar
garet Morrison residence complex. In order to be eligible for consideration as a 
Special Interest House, a student group must have at least eight members, and 
one or two alternates is at all possible.
The specific goal of the Housing Office in providing the Special Interest 
Houses is to encourage situations where the living environment compliments 
the learning opportunities of the residents involved and where specific educational 
goals outlined by the member-residents are understood and enhanced.
If more than 4 groups of students submit applications for these Special 
Interest Houses, a decision will be based on a comparison of the educational 
goals presented and the likelihood of serious educational benefit being derived 
from residency in this type of living situation.
Application forms are available in the Housing Office and must be filled out and 
returned by
Friday, February 11th, 1983.
Notice 
to: aU resident 
students
re: Housing
Deposits
The Room Resewation procedure for the 1983-1984 academic year has been scheduled to be held during the 2nd & 3rd weeks of March 1983.All current residents who wish to be considered for University housing for the 1983- 1984 academic year must pay a $100 Housing Deposit between February 1st and February 24,1983. This deposit is to be paid directly to the Cashiers Office in Warner Hall. Please be sure to save your deposit receipt from the Cashiers Office since it will be necessary to show it in order to participate in the room reservation process in March.
February short, but busy 
month for music department
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffurritrr
Several recitals and concerts will be pres
ented this month by CMUs department of 
music.
A recital at 8 p.m. on February 16 will 
feature David Withrow, percussionist. With
row is a senior under the instruction of John 
Soroka, principle percussionist of the Pitts
burgh Symphony Orchestra. The perfor
mance will be held in the Alumni Concert 
Hall.
At 8 p.m. on February 17, Anne Martindale Williams, principal cellist in the Pitts
burgh Symphony Orchestra, will give a 
faculty recital playing violincello.
On the 19, a sophomore recital will be 
presented by Katherine Edwards (flute) and 
Ashley Barret (oboe) in the Alumni Concert 
Hall at 3 p.m.
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic will 
hold a Concerto Concert in the Carnegie 
Music Hall, Oakland on February' 20 at 8 
p.m. Kypros Markou, associate conductor of 
the Philharmonic, will be conducting. The 
concert will include the performances by 
soprano Donna Zapola, percussionist 
Rolando Morales Matos, and percussionist 
Larry Ordener.
Zapola is studying at CMU for an MFA in 
applied voice. She currently holds a Bache
lor of Music Degree in applied voice from 
Seton Hill College. She has performed as a 
soloist with the Johnstown Symphony 
Orchestra, the Symphony Singers, and Sym
phony Chorale. In addition, Zapola was a 
finalist in the Pittsburgh Concert Society 
Young Artists Competition. She is a student 
of Beatrice Krebs.
Ordener received his BM from Sam Hous
ton State University. He has performed with 
the Pittsburgh Symphony, the Greensburg 
Symphony, the McKeesport Symphony, the 
Roswell Symphony in New Mexico, and the 
Midland-Odessa Symphony. Ordener is a 
student of John Soroka.
Matos is a graduate of the Escuela Libre 
de Musica of San Juan, Puerto Rico and is 
currently a special freshman student at 
CMU. He has performed with the San Juan 
Youth Symphony and the Pittsburgh 
Youth Symphony Orchestra. He is also a 
student of John Soroka.
On February 23 at 8 p.m. in the Alumni 
Concert Hall, pianist Curtis Probel will give 
a senior recital. Probel, a student of Ralph 
Zitterbart, will perform pieces by Scarlatti, 
Beethovan, Ravel, and Moussorgsky.
A Contemporary Ensemble will be 
directed by Leonardo Balada and conducted 
by Keith Lockhart, a graduate student and 
assistant conductor of the Carnegie Mellon 
Philharmonic, on February 24 at 8 p.m. in 
the Alumni Concert Hall. Pieces will 
include LHistoir du Soldat by 
Stravinsky.
Classical Guitarist Christopher Wolf will 
present a junior recital on February 25 at 8 
p.m. in the Alumni Concert hall. Wolf is 
under the instruction of Richard Franklin.
A senior recital will be given by trombo
nist David M. Woodard on February 26 at 8 
p.m. in the Alumni Concert Hall. Woodard 
is studying under Byron McCulloh.
In addition, the students of pianist Nata
sha Snitkovsky will perform in the Alumni 
Concert Hall at 5 p.m. also on the 26.
The final performance in February will 
be a Chamber Orchestra on the 27 at 8 p.m.
Lead singer of The Core, Tony Miles, rocks out at Delta Tau Delta. The band played at 
DTD last weekend
in the Alumni Concert Hall. The majority 
of the program will be conducted by Wemer 
Torkanowsky, conductor of the Carnegie 
Mellon Philharmonic. Mozarts Violin Con
certo in A will be conducted by Keith Lock
hart and will feature senior Ellin Ginzburg.
Other works to be presented include: 
Bachs cantata #106, Gottes Zeit ist die aller
beste Zeit', Haydens symphony #45, Fare
well Symphony; and the world premiere
performance of faculty member Marilyn 
Taft Thomass Disparities for Chamber 
Ensemble and Electronic Tape.
ATTENTION
The winners of the Gandhi contest which 
was held in last weeks Tartan are (in order): 
Paul Kohlbrenner, Susan Rayl, and Val Hay. 
Please come to The Tartan office (with ID) 
to claim your winnings.

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1983The TartanPage 17
Committee's recommendations about SNS are passed
continued from page 6
been cleared of the charge.
2) Senator Paula Franklin will be 
appointed receiver for a month. Her duties 
will include signing purchase orders, and 
approving users of the SNS account. It was 
stressed that Franklin was only there in an 
advisory position and that she should not 
infringe at all. Her appointment as receiver 
was later changed to that of a member of the 
board for one month.
3) SNS will have to inactivate usage for 
people not approved for use of the SNS
account.
4) SNS will still have $200 total in all its 
computer accounts this semester.
5) SNS president has the responsibility 
to control his officers.
6) SNS business manager must file 
monthly reports and request purchase 
orders signed by Paula Franklin and Anne 
Witchner.
7) Access is approved for the SNS com
puter account for the president, the vicepresident, the directors, the resident hacker, 
the business manager, and the writers.
8) SNS is warned that it is on 
probation.
Mark Levine, SNSs current president, 
made the following comments about the 
recommendations:
The extra signature required for die 
purchase order would slow down the pro
cess because of the frequency of small orders.
The missing checks had been received 
by the Senate.
The deficits incurred were not from 
this years board and this years board was 
under-budget so far this year.
In response to this, Laura Sabadell, Chariman of the Finance Committee, stated that 
the Finance Committee had no intention 
of shutting down SNS, but that SNS had a 
history of bringing in negative amounts of 
money at the end of the year, and that it was 
just insuring that this does not happen 
again. Sabadell also stated that the Finance 
Committee has confidence in the present 
officers.
Dean Cox then said that the Senate had 
given [SNS] more than what the fiscal pol
icy ever says we should give
Peter Bain, publicity director, spoke on 
behalf of SNS. He said that the tone in
"Glass Booth " opened up lead's talent
By VINCENT GU1NTO
Tartan Contributing Editor
The Man in the Glass Booth is a fasci
nating study of duty, guilt, and the nature of 
war crimes. The Pittsburgh Laboratory 
Theatres production of Robert Shaws play 
would have been a decent, but 
: yjr average, show except for one feajjr ture that lifts it miles above the
- level of mediocrity: the perfor
mance of Bingo OMalley.
The show is about Arthur Goldman 
(OMalley), a successful and apparendy Jew
ish businessman, who is arrested for Nazi 
war crimes as S.S. Colonel Adolf Karl Dorff. 
Scene by scene, the character of Goldman 
metamorphoses from cool, dignified busi
nessman to raging maniac to terrified victim
to strutting jackbooted Nazi to broken old 
man. The emotional range of the part is 
awesome, yet OMalley rises to each new 
challenge with seemingly ever-increasing 
brilliance.
As well as being a character study of Gold
man, the play makes many points concern
ing human nature and the nature of war 
crimes. In the trial scene in the final act, 
Colonel Dorffs actions are sharply con
trasted with the atrocities committed by lib
erated Jews and Allied soldiers on the 
German people.
At one point in the trial, Goldman/Dorff 
is confronted with a Jew from South Africa. 
In a poignant but fleeting dialogue, Gold
man ascertains that the witness lives in 
Johannesburg and is quite successful there.Poetry and fiction next week
continued from page 13
Daughter.
Mike Chabon, a student at the University 
of Pittsburgh, is a former student of Ochesters.
Chabon also read poetry about his child
hood. These selections include In Bed After 
They Let Me Know and Here Are My 
Gloved Hands. Pieces about Pittsburgh
include The Student Union  Once the 
Shenley Hotel and a poem about a David 
Stoltz work that was featured at the Carnegie 
International tided Utica II.
Tonights reading will also begin at 8 pm 
and will feature the poetry of Don Petesch, a 
faculty member at the University of Pitts
burgh, and the fiction of Mark Collins, a or 
graduate student at the same university.
HAIR PEOPLE
SqS gn-wnli n2I :6qD*k67
Bring this coupon and get
$5 OFF Z
orv..
perms
AmsjC lmm n89)yjm)y 
u8r8)C m|9sm fKSK6f
$15 OFF
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oi. cons (& quarts) 
STROHS10WENBRAU lt., Dk , bottles
MICHUOB
BUDWEISER
MILLEROLD ENGLISH 800 SCHLITZ MALT 
IRON CITY ERLANGERbottles 
GENESSEE ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMI0TS PABST 
SCHLITZPEARL (Texas)bottles 
DOUBLE DARK-bottles 
BLATZ 
PIELSOLD MILWAUKEE PINK CHAMPALE-bottles 
COLT 45 
MILLER LITE MICHEL0B LITE IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Steak  Corned Beet  Tuno  Turkey
SANDWICHES
Haddock  Cod  Ground Steak  Sausage 
Veal  Chuck  Chicken Parmeson
SPECIALTY ITEMS
Steak Subs  Fresh Cut French Fries 
Ho! Dogs with choice of 12 condiments 
Piizo served till 3 om
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sunday 1 pm-2 om 
Imports, Cans, Quarts, Draft Pitchers Mugs 
Your Choice ol 6 Draft Beers 
HEINEKEN  MOISON ALE  MICHELOB 
STROHS  MILLERS  SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oi 6 pk 
featured each week
STROHS  ROLLING ROCK  SCHLITZ 
OLD ENGLISH 800  SCHLITZ MALT  PABST
Imports
BECK Sit Dk - Germany 
BASS ALE England 
HARP LAGER - Irelond 
MOISON GOLDEN - Canodo 
HEINEKEN It Dk -Holland 
LOWENBRAU Gwiony 
0 KEEFE ALE Canado 
PILSNER URQUELl Cm* 
KIRIN Japan
MACKESSON STOUT li eland 
OLD VIENNA LAGERConodo 
55 LAGER - Conoda
ST PAULI GIRL Germany 
DOS EQUIS XX Meico 
JOHN COURAGE England 
WATNETSEnglond 
CARISBERG ELEPHANT Den 
CARtSBERG ROYALE Denmork 
CARISBERG DARK Denmork 
TSINGTA0 Chino 
HACKER PSCHORR Germany 
LABATT S Conoda 
MURPHY - Ireland 
COOPER & SON Austrolio 
FOSTER S LAGER Austrolio
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC.
Open
9am-3 45om Sun Thurs 
9am 4 45am Fri-Sa
Call 621 7388 or 621 1185 
3901 Forbes Ave (Oakland) 
Pgh PA 15213
With that, merely a half dozen lines of dia
logue, the whole concept of the racial perse
cution felt by the Israelis is brought into 
direct conflict with present-day Jewish 
behavior against other races, and all people 
come under indirect attack for prejudice and 
double standards.
Goldman/Dorffs main argument in his 
defense is that Jews were only victims of 
circumstance, and if the situation had been 
reversed, the resulting behavior would have 
been the same: People of Israel, if he 
[Hider] had chosen you . .. you also would 
have followed where he led.
The play is a memorable experience, well 
worth the effort to see. The courtroom 
scenes will linger in memory for a long time, 
due to the intensity of OMalleys perfor
mance. The play itself is well-written, yet it 
is the skill of one man  OMalley  which 
makes this production a work of art.
which the recommendations were delivered 
was not one which encouraged our speak
ing about what we thought, but he was 
interrupted by Sabadell. Bain also said that 
SNS had not been given a formal list of 
charges before the first meeting or before the 
January 27 meeting.
On Saturday the four members of the 
investigating committee met at 11 a.m. The 
committee consisted of Alexandra Kavoulakis, Jeff Koechling, Janelle Malloy, and 
Nate Solano. Koechling was the SNS repre
sentative to the committee. The committees 
recommendations are as follows:
1 j Iri the case of an inquiry the head of 
the club or organization will be notified in 
writing at least two days prior to the meeting 
d .e of the subject of the inquiry.
2) After the inquiry the head of the club 
or organization should receive a copy of the 
recommendations of the committee at least 
one day before the next Senate meeting at 
which it will be brought up. These recom
mendations should state that they are tenta
tive until receiving full senate approval.
3) No additional rules are required con
cerning the conduct of committee meetings. 
However, close attention should be paid to 
the present rules as oudined by Roberts 
Rules of Order and the Student Senate 
bylaws.
4) Believing the following statements 
were misquoted or taken out of context, 
these statements should be retracted:
 the statement by Laura Sabadell 
terming her own behavior as sarcastic;
 the statement by Andy Stahl that Pat 
Conroy had flunked out of school;
 the statement by Laura Sabadell that 
the lesson of the last meeting was manage
ment and responsibility.
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
Ill
PRECISION
JiAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR
ALL STYLES 
xqUP77
OVICTlTNU,
Mon . Tues., Wed 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat 9-6687-3500 
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PflECSON MAm/TTBC
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office

---------------------------------------------------

AUDITIONS
AND
wsparof
Youll be ^\M 1^^
o\eo C
by the 1983 SPRING MUSICAL!
Saturday, February 12th 
Auditions : Skibo 45 
Design, Production, 
and Orchestra Call: 40-D Skibo
12 noon
For Auditions: Prepare a one-minute 
comic monologue and two songs: one fast, 
one slow. An accompanist will be provided. 
Please wear comfortable clothing and be 
prompt.
For Design Staff: Were looking for the 
following: Designers and assistants for Sets, 
Lighting, Costumes, Sound, Make-Up, and 
Properties; also needed are a Stage Manager, 
a Choreographer and a carpenter.
For Production Staff: We need people for 
all crews, so come in and sign up.
For Orchestra Call: Interested? Stop by to 
leam more about the music and the show.
Produced by Scotch n Soda, the student drama club of Camegie-Mellon 
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Sports,
i
CMU silences critics by finally winning one
photo by Rhoda Funk
Pete Bennet (14) catches his opponent asleep and passes the ball inside with one finger. Ben| net led the Tartans to victory on Saturday with 15 points.
By R1C MEDROW
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
This performance should have been a 
flop before the curtain opened. Audiences 
during this 1-12 tour of the dramatic comedy 
Tartan Basketball 1982-83 have been sparse 
at best, and performances have been worse.
This particular showing with the 3-11 
Thiel Tomcats should have been no excep
tion. True, the Thiel players were in the 
seventh position in the PAC, but the lead in 
their company, Victor Harp, is generally 
regarded by all the critics as the star of the 
PAC with 20.2 points per game and 9.3 
rebounds. Led by Harp, who is up for AllAmerican nomination, the Tomcat troupe 
leads the PAC in total offense with 64.7 
points per game.
However, from the opening curtain until 
the closing bows something was different on 
this night. A nearly full house was present 
for the first time in the 1982-83 run.
Harp noticed almost immediately that 
the song was a different one than he was 
used to playing. The CMU defense forced 
him away from his center stage position, 
forcing him to shoot from the wings and 
make less than 24 percent of his shots (5 for 
21, 10 points). Taking the entire Tomcat 
cast into account, the Tartan defense turned 
in a sparkling play keeping their opponents 
to a field goal percentage of slightly over 30 
percent.
Meanwhile, the CMU offense dazzled the 
audience, executing its pre-game blocking 
almost to perfection. The barbershop 
quartet of Forward Carl Mulac (9 for 12, 
75%, 12 rebounds), Forward Kevin Res 
Resik (7 for 8,87.5%), Guard Greg Gabriel (6 
for 9, 66.7%), and Freshman Center Richard 
Neff (11 rebounds) buzzed past opponents. 
By intermission the audience was going 
crazy yelling CMU, CMU!
According to Director Dave Maloney, this 
is the best audience hes directed in front of 
since the Kitchen Band from Pika used to 
orchestrate for his troupe six years ago. This 
time, though, much of the enthusiasm came 
from the aficionados of Nativity Church of 
Broughton Elementary School.
Guard Greg Gabriel delivered his lines 
flawlessly, You dont really expect a big 
crowd when you are 1-12. It shows loyalty to 
the team and the coach, taking a dramatic 
pause. The kids (from Nativity) made a big 
difference. They took the place of the cheer
leaders tonight.
The second act was executed just as well, 
if not better than the first. The Tartans com
bined an Emmy calibur fastbreak with a 
long running series of high percentage shots 
to bury Thiel, 86-57, when the curtain 
closed. However, the Nativity groupies were 
not to be satisfied before they swarmed 
around Mulac demanding autographs as an 
continued on page 20
Pirates looking for a few good women
Have a dream of being part of the Pittsj burgh Pirates outfield corps, but feel dis
couraged because youre female? Never fear, 
| your chance has arrived.
On Friday and Saturday, February 25-26, 
the Pirates will be conducting interviews for 
their 1983 Pirettes, the girls who cover the 
left and right field foul lines for each game at 
Three Rivers Stadium. The Pirettes are 
responsible for fielding all foul balls hit into 
their areas in order to keep the game run
ning smoothly.
If you are a female 17 years of age or over,
you are eligible for a spot on the team. Inter
views will be held at Three Rivers Stadium 
on February 25 from noon until 5 p.m. and 
on February 26 from 9 a.m. until noon.
Applicants should enter at Press Gate A, 
located on street level under Gate A. You 
should also bring a recent photo which the 
Pirates can keep.
So get those gloves out of the closet and 
loosen .up those arms. The 1983 season is 
just around the comer.
Several Bucs had impressive winter
league seasons. Here are some of their 
results.
Brian Harper led the Puerto Rican 
League in both hitting (.378) and RBIs (53). 
LHP Randy Niemann led the Venezuelan 
League by striking out 90 batters while also 
posting an 8-3 record, all as a starter. Alfredo 
Torres led the same league in RBIs.
Three Pirates and one former Pirate 
received honors for their play in the Domin
ican Republic. Catcher Tony Pena, who 
became the first player to register three con
secutive 40 RBI seasons, was appointed as
the leagues MVP. Infielder Denio Gonzalez 
was named Rookie of the Year. RHP Cecilio Guante was chosen as the leagues Best 
Pitcher. All four played on the Aguilas 
Cibaenas team. Rafael Belliard, an infielder, 
was also named to the Dominican All-Star 
squad and consequendy won the All-Star 
game with his GW-RBI.
Three Pirates also performed well in the 
Columbian League: outfielder Joe Orsulak 
(.305), infielder Ron Wotus (.320) and first 
baseman Benny DiStefano (.340 and 6 
homers) all played well.
Hockey wins again; look towards rematch vs Duq
By STEVE WINAWER
\ Tartan Photo Editor
The hockey team won a close tightchecking battle this past Saturday when they 
edged the Indiana University of Pennsylva
nia Indians.
Lately, the Tartans checking game has 
been getting a little lax, but the IUP team 
came out hitting everyone wearing skates. 
The six goals that the team let up does not 
reflect the effort of the defensive corps. Tim 
Carlin and Tim Kenney had excellent 
games on the back lines and goaltender Bob 
Kosakowski played one of his best games 
this season. IUP had a great deal of success 
| with long passes to break out streaking win
gers into the Tartans end ahead of the 
defense.
The game featured a lot of hard hitting 
which at first slowed the Tartans skaters up. 
After a few words of advice from their coach, 
Jeff Gutman, between the second and third 
Period, the team went out and simply outskated the slower team. This second period 
111 which the Tartans scored six goals was 
the best that the team has played all year. 
Gutman added that the period was one of 
the best hed seen in his coaching career.
1 think its now time to give some credit to 
*he players on this hockey team who have 
been outstanding all season as well as in this 
t0ugh game. First on this list is the first line 
nght wing and team captain, Rick SamuelSwede, as he is called, is definitely one
of the finest skaters in the league. In addition 
to his skating and great inside scoring abili
ties, he also is a good heads up player who is 
often there to cover up for a defenseman 
who has gone too deep on his side.
The Assistant captain, Mike Panno, who 
also takes care of all of the official business 
for the team, is the center for the second line. 
Despite his small size, he is one of the hard
est working players on the team and w ill go 
after die puck against any opponent. In the 
defensive corps is sophomore Tim Carlin. 
Carlin is a good solid defenseman whose 
real standout talent is in pushing the team 
quickly through each transition from 
defense to offense. This is a very crucial part 
of the game of hockey. He is called preppy 
by his teammates because of his dress and 
mannerisms and he even has an alligator on 
his jersey. Tims firey style of play and abil
ity to play either die finesse or hitting game 
wrhen necessary make him one of the best on 
the team.
Saturdays game went like this: the first 
period was an inch by inch battle with Don 
Heyse scoring a goal for the Tartans and 
IUP coming back five and a half minutes 
later to tie the score. This goal was scored on 
a power play witii Paul Russo in the box for 
holding. The second period started off with 
another trade of goals with Rick Samuelson 
scoring on assists from Don Heyse and Eric 
Spray. Eric took a penalty for kneeing early
in the period which the IUP team capital
ized on. The rest of this period featured hard 
work and excellent hockey by CMU. Rick 
got two more goals during the period, one of 
which was an unassisted display of skating 
talent as he just blew by the other team. Rob 
Katz scored on a picture perfect play from
Mike Panno and Chris Byrne. Tim Carlin 
finished the periods scoring by tucking the 
puck into the comer of the net.
The third period saw the Tartans let up 
four goals and their lead was cut to one goal. 
The team did hold on however and came 
away with a 7-6 win.
photo by Strvt1 Wmawet 
The acdon got a bit physical last Saturday but CMU came out on top again.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanFebruary 8, 1983
Sixers, BETA, and N.T. Express lead Majors
Its been a boring week over at the intram
ural departnfent with no major champions 
being crowned and no complaints about 
late schedules. So, here it goes.
Bowling, racquetball, backgammon, bas
ketball, bridge, handball, water basketball, 
and wrestling are all in season. The teams 
should know by now how to score their 
games and what to do with them afterwards, 
so there shouldnt be any problems. How
ever, the hoop commissioiners would like 
their participants to note the winning team 
on the score sheet.
Schedules for handball and water basket
ball are out. So, go pick em up and check 
out when your squad is in action.
Attention seniors and juniors. Commis
sioners are still needed for bridge, table ten
nis and call pool. It would look very nice on 
your resume' when youre looking for a 
place of employment.
MAJORS
East
Sixers
Kappa Sig-A 
Quiche Eaters 
BETA
Runnin Rebels
D-Force
The Park
A.D.C.I
PIKA
West
SAE
N.T. Express 
The House 
Celtics 
Hoyas
Give a Hoot
Win Loss
5 0
0 4
1 3
1 3
0 4
Win Loss
0 5
The High Five22Unicorns
O.T.H.22DTD
Supa Stars30Skins 
F TroopINTERMEDIATESHoyas
AggiesWin LossTuring Machine 
Arch AngelsMothership20Delta SquaredHarrys Tavern13Know-Names
DU21KeenotatasJust for Fun03Wakonda AugaHousing Office20JayhawksBruinsWin LossSkoal Brothers
Shady Bunch12Zebras
DGC11Yellow Sheets
PKT-B21Architects
Icemen30UHB
EDO03The Phoenix
DukesWin Loss
Jets30MINORS
Fine Arts04PanthersFlying Tigers30
TX-A12World B. Free
ZBT-A12Basketball Jones
Barking PumpkinsCavaliersWin LossElectric Eels
SUPA-NOVA11Louisa Blues
Manila Folders12Forfeit
3rd FI. E-Tower12Simoans
Old Millworkers10First National Bank
KS-B1"0Redmen
FriarsWin Loss7E Dunks
SUPA-Adonis30Biohazards
Math Grads03Central Park North
ADG II02Zoo
FLASH20 'Sarahs Joy
Degenerates20AROTC
Jumping Jacks02PIKA-C
GophersWin LossComus
GSIA Blue21Spartans
EPP Quiche Eaters12SAE-C
orientation to curriculum 
tour of facilities
refreshments
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING & MATERIALS SCIENCE
open to all under
classmen interested 
in exploring the growing 
field of metallurgical 
engineering and 
materials science
FEBRUARY 14 4:30 PMwean hall 5403
0 3
1 2 
2 0 
2 0 
Win Loss
11
11
30
03
11
11
Win Loss
2 1
3 0
Win Loss
30
12
03
30
12
03
30
12
Win Loss
30
11
03
11
30
03
21
12
Win Loss 
1 2
OPEN HOUSE
Icemen 2 l
Dreads 0 2
Spliffs 2 0
Uptown Imposters 0 2
DU 1 l
Full Moon 2 0
GWANGI IT
Rastamen 1 l
Tarheels Win Loss
The Premature Shooters 3 0
PKT-B 1 2
SCHLAG 69ers 0 2
Bossmen 1 1
Renegades 2 0
Skid Row 1 1
TX-B 1 1
KS-Bruisers 0 2
Hollywoods Hogs 1 1
Hoopsters 
slam Thielcontinued from page 19
encore.
CMU continued its winning ways Satur
day night when they upset the conference 
leaders Case Western Reserve 66-64 in Ohio. 
The Tartans were led by Gabriel who had 6 
and Bennett who added 15.
Save $25.
on 14K goM College Rings.
10 a.m. - 4 p.m.
Bookstore
Nows the time to think about 
J your college ring Not just any 
ringa 14K Gold College Ring from 
ArtCarved The karat gold jewelry 
thats designed and handcrafted for 
lasting value 
And now an ArtCarved 14K Gold 
College Ring is more affordable than you 
think Choose from an entire collection of 
14K Gold ArtCarved College Rings and 
save $25 This offer is for a limited time ' 
only, so come in and see all the great 
ArtCarved styles with the custom options 
that can let you have the ring of your 
choice, the way you want it So graduate 
in style Graduate to gold1
CLASS RINGS INC
sa Accepted
Nothng etse feete Me real gold
VITAVolunteer Income Tax Assistance 
can help you complete your tax return. Call 
your local IRS office for details.

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1983The TartanPage 21
adv Tartans lose to W&J in first place battle
y JEFFREY BERGMAN
artan Sports Editor
Last Wednesday night was one of the bigt games erf the season for the womens 
sketball team. They tipped off against the 
squad from Washington and Jefferson 
n a confrontation for first place in the Penwood West Conference.
Unfortunately for CMU, their lack of 
epth hurt the team and they dropped a 
ugh 62-52 lose to the Presidents.
The Tartans did start off strong in the first 
alf, led by sophomore Laurie Arendas. The 
-6 guard from Princeton, NJ, ran the Tarn offense and fast break effectively, which 
; gave CMU a six-point lead at 16-10 
nd 26-20. She found sophomore guard 
ichelle Schlegel twice for foul-line 
umpers and fed senior Deborah Durr nicely 
or her patented tum-around jumpers from 
n close.
CMU employed a tough 2 1-2 defense, led 
Schlegel. Many times during the contest, 
artan defenders were found diving on the 
oor for loose balls, especially the guard 
rom Fairview, PA. In fact, on one play she 
out two W8cJ players and the referee in
one fell swoop.
However, the Presidents cut the lead to 
one by halftime, led by freshman Lynn 
Kelly. The 5-9 center, who had been cold all 
half, started banging her inside jumpers 
which then set up outside shots for players 
like Pam Magill. Magill, who was game 
high scorer with 21, was left in the comer 
many times as the CMU defense collapsed 
on Kelly.
This trend continued in the second half as 
Kelly and Magill combined for 25 secondhalf points to break the game wide open. 
CMU was outscored 16-5, which caused 
Coach Kathy Paczkowski to call a time out.
It didnt help the Tartans cause at all that 
Durr had been sitting on the bench during 
this W&J spurt. She had no choice, though; 
she had ice on her neck, which later turned 
out to be a bruise. But as she saw her team 
falling behind steadily, the center from Bal
timore felt it was her obligation to play no 
matter what.
Her appearance spurred on the Tartans
they scored two quick buckets to cut the lead 
to 46-40. The Presidents then employed a 
full-court press which took a weary CMU 
team by surprise. W&J scored ten unans
wered points to blow the game wide open.
Arendas led the Tartans in scoring with
16, while Durr and Schlegel chipped in 11 
and ten, respectively. For the Presidents, 
Magill had 21, Kelly 14, and Cindy Stockdale added 12.
The womens basketball teams next 
home game will be Friday, February 11 at 7 
p.m. Their opponent will be Seton Hill.
Records fall as swimmers take a pair
In an inspiring road victory last Wednes
day, the Tartan swimmers routed the 
Bethany Bisons 65-39. Three days later they 
beat Case Western Reserve 66-45 raising 
their conference record to 3-1.
When the Tartans had posted their points 
against Bethany two swimmers had turned 
in spectacular performances. Dave Lenette 
achieved two individual first places in the 
200 free and 200 fly and Chris Leech had a 
first place in the 100 free and a personal best
in the 100 fly.
Other first places were won by Randy 
Condon in the 200 back and 200 IM, and 
Bob Fishel in diving. The 400 free relay, 
comprised of Jeff Duncan, Tom Brekovsky, 
Dave Lenette and Buzz Ilby, powered their 
way to a victory over Bethany and the Palm 
relay.
In the meet against archrival Case, Dave 
Lenette once again had three firsts, includ
ing setting a school record in the 50 free. He 
was also a member of the winning 400 free 
relay with Duncan, Brekovsky, and Condon 
that set a pool record. Mark Flanagan and 
Bob Fisliel each took a first in the diving 
events and Randy Condon won the 200 
backstroke. Nationals hopeful Gina Ilby 
just missed qualifying in the 100 In by one 
second. This was despite being sick for the 
past couple of weeks. CMUs next meet is 
Saturday at John Carrol.
Your
mmm
m
doesn't 
surprise 
us...
At TRW it's what we re all about.
We've created an environment 
encouraging people like you to 
define and go after your individual 
professional goals.
So when you work with us, 
you'll get a personalized approach 
to your technical growth. An 
approach that includes . . .
An informal atmosphere that 
encourages insightful thinking.
Co-workers who value the free 
interchange of ideas.
Responsive managers who look 
out for your advancement.
A broad spectrum of challenging 
projects to choose from --
Projects ranging from large data 
base software systems, 
communications spacecraft and 
alternative energy sources, to 
scientific satellites, high energy 
lasers and microelectronics.
And you'll appreciate the 
opportunity to see these 
projects to completion.
In the long run we think 
you'll find that TRW offers 
an environment that brings out 
the uniqueness in you.
eMO (9.. pm 8) vjrC February 15
hiring graduates in most Engi
neering and Scientific disciplines 
at v.. degree levels.
See your Placement Office for 
more information.
u8..mLm Mm.vy98)C
eMO I.mys8)9C v) imWm)Cm
T.LP MUKTS*:h imyP
g)m dvm Avs1 
Mm8)8 Tmv,P un *7qB6
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
JOE FRESHMANBy Mark Levine
VlRM'S SHE \?6A\N)NG 1
0IN6 NOw?ij m os' i
Hfy, ^oe,ws\ f SHt s Tartn 
SmCOItMK )( To A fteAU 
You UkC/ V RA'Zy UJOKlMO
 ,
V ( wcHimrsY^TV V SM 00106?;^.
THe,OH1C^iY 
-00KIN6 6IN'5 P01NTIM6
V AT US../
W5SH\-J0E, i Think i 
OotTHE i&iSHoao JNfown you 
Qorffuftyfrwi ttN lfctwNe>
ft WRW^NQiryThie atn 
Eo\N6?!?
Urt,To" 
htx Nutrv 
ON& 
H&ftOlttb
UM.JoE
L/ 3of,
Y THK 
SfttlHWC
t,C VO.sJC-3-/y/g3 |v\hMc^urNf
By Jay Seletz
DROOL?AHHW
2/*/Si
By Diane ThodosIPSO FACTO
pof
POINDEXTER
3 MORE 1HI 
wie THAT TONMEL 
L t/P TMZE.'

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifiedsclubs
ummer sublet 1 minute from campus, 4- 
rtlroom, 24 bathroom furnished house, $162.50 
ioom & utilities. Call after 5 p.m. 681-9065.
,,11 ^ term papers, dissertations, letters, 
esUrnes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
ates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
jounselore over 18 who like to have fun and 
nake fun at unique overnight boys summer 
amp n Penna. Able to instruct any one of the 
ollowing: water safety, water skiing, boating, 
.occer, basketball, arts & crafts, rock climbing, 
iflery, ham radio, rocketry, science, archery, 
tack, tennis, golf, photography, pioneering, or 
,tneral athletics. Write Camp Director, 138 Red 
Rambler Dr., Lafayette Hill PA 19444.
German Tutoring. If you need help call 681-2277 
n the evening and ask for Klaus.
(vising, editing, tutoring in English. Also typ
ing service for manuscripts (minimum one week 
urnaround). 734-1331 or 761-8584.
Informal Bible Discussion Group meets every 
Monday evening at 9, in Room 39 Skibo. It is 
non-denominational in nature, and deals with 
campus-related and practical issues directly from 
the Bible. Stop by, and feel free to bring a friend 
ivith you. If you want additional information, 
all 441-0819 and ask for John.
Pitt professor needs tutoring in EMACS. Write 
P.O. Box 19034, Pittsburgh, PA 15273. $4 per
lour.
The Academic Bag Ladies are meeting over 
unch Thursday, 12-1. Lutheran University Cener, 4515 Forbes Ave., Oakland. Info: 682-6886
Free mailed Bible correspondence course. Home 
Bible study, or counselling from the Word of 
}od. Write: Church of Christ, P.O. Box 10542, 
PA 15235. Phone: 795-2560.
WANTED: two tickets to February 9 Missing 
Arsons concert. No reasonable offer refused. 
>78-8602, ask for Shari.
FRANK KERN ARE YOU AVAILABLE? 
SIGNED, INTERESTED.
Iculator for sale. TI59 with printer, never used,
ill Dave 683-8474.
or Coopers fabulous fructose diet plan. One
eek supply $21.50. Banana, chocolate or straw:rry. Nova Foods, Box 300, Carnegie PA 15106,
179-8520.
eep 1979 CJ. 4-wheel drive. AM/FM cassette, 
xcellent condition. Must sell. Phone 963-8064 
venings, or contact Tom Walker, GSIA.
-uitar lessons. Classical, jazz, rock. Guitar 
ijor. $7 half hour, $12 hour. If interested, call 
fare Garvin at 521-3694.
leatre arts graduates. Resume Photograhs1 A 
omplete local service. Call for an appointment.
Julio Photography, 521-3277. Les De Julio, 
at De Julio.
AIESEC, CMUs international management 
exchange organization, welcomes students of all 
majors to its weekly meetings at 4:30 in Skibo 12 
every Wednesday.
CMU Ballroom Dance Club. Leam to dance. 
Free lessons, every Friday 3:00 - 4:30, Thistle Hall 
(Gym). Beginners welcome!
Explorers Club. This Thursday at 6:30 p.m., 
Room 11 Skibo, Bob Bardyn will show slides of 
his recent climbing trip to Ecuador. All are 
welcome.
IEEE Meeting: New officers will be elected on 
Wednesday, February 16 at 7:30 p.m. in DH 1112. 
All members are urged to attend. Refreshments 
will be served. To join IEEE see Dr. Hoburg in 
PH 18K.
Pro-Life meeting: The CMU Association for Life 
will be having a general meeting (open to all) 
tonight, February 8, at 9 p.m. in DH 1212. Well 
be showing slides and pictures from Washing
ton, DC, and talking about the upcoming film 
series. Everyone is welcome.
Student Committee on Computing will meet Sat
urday at 11:30 in Room 13. All interested students 
are welcome to attend.
official
Presdent Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for student between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, February 
23. Students who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set up an 
appointment.
John P. Crecine, dean of the college of Humani
ties and Social Sciences, will hold open office 
hours for students each Tuesday, 1:303:30, BH 
269
general
Some students have been complaining that the 
dorms are too noisy for work, and others have 
found it impossible to study on Friday and Satur
day nights. If you are interested in having the 
libraries open 24 hours, complete the student 
senate form to be found in next weeks Tartan. 
The form must be returned to the Skibo Informa
tion desk by February 25.
Film on Combustion. Flow Visualization in 
Experimental Combustion Chambers. Febru
ary 10, Scaife Auditorium at 1:30
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7 in the Wherrett Room. Students are invited to 
come and address the senate during audience 
participation.
Counseling and student development center 
workshops. The following workshops are offered 
this term. Register at Baker Hall 135 or by calling 
x2922 between 8:30 and 5.
Decision Making Workshops. Leam the pro
cess of decision making. Three sessions, Wednes
days from 46 p.m., February 923.
Test Taking I: Preparation for Taking Tests. 
One session, Tuesday, April 5, 4:305:30 p.m. 
Test Taking II: How to Take Exams. One 
session, Monday, February 14, repeats on Tues
day, April 12, 4:305:30 p.m.
Test Taking III: Dealing with Exam Anxiety. 
One session, Monday, February 21, repeats on 
Tuesday, April 19, 4:305:30 p.m.
Managing Stress. Leam how to cope with 
academic and personal pressures. Four sessions, 
Thursdays from 4:306 p.m., February 10 to 
March 3.
Building Self-esteem. Leam how to feel better 
about yourself. Four sessions, Thursdays from 
4:306 p.m., April 728.
Dr. Robert Eisenstein, CMU professor of physics, 
will present a lecture on Air, Earth, Fire and 
Water in 1982 on Wednesday, February 9 at 4:30 
p.m. in DH 1209. Sponsored by the Society of 
Physics Students.
The Society of Physics Students will be sponsor
ing a tour of the University of Pittsburghs Van 
de Graaff linear accelerator facilities on Monday, 
February 21 at 5 p.m. Interested persons should 
call Phil at x3946 (evenings), or leave a note in the 
SPS mailbox in the physics department mailroom, WeH 7322.
Pro-Life Convention Indiana University of PA is 
sponsoring a pro-life convention for college stu
dents March 4-6. Topics include nuclear disarma
ment, world hunger, abortion and adoption. 
Deadline for registration is February 10. Please 
contact Andrew Sicree at 621-2911 for more 
information.
Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series: Steven 
Fenves, university professor of civil engineering, 
will speak on Rebuilding the Infrastructure: 
The Role of Technology, on Wednesday, Feb
ruary 9, at 4:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room. 
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
daily Mass at 12:30 p.m. in Skibo 39. Saturday 
evening Mass is at 7 p.m. and Sunday morning 
Mass is at 10:30 a.m. in Hunt Library Multipur
pose Room.
Oratory Square Dance. The Roman Catholic 
Chaplain is sponsoring a square dance on Fri
day, February 11 at 7:30 p.m. in Thistle Hall (in 
the Gym). Everyone is welcome. Call Andy Sicree 
at 621-2911 or Fr. Bob at 681-3181 for more 
information.
events
Camegie-Mellon Universitys Hewlett Gallery
will feature sketches and renderings of scene 
designer Jo Mielziner from February 12 through 
March 9.
Works by Byron McCulloh, Camegie-Mellon 
University artist/lecturer in music, will compose 
the entire program at a Shadyside Concerts pres
entation at 2:30 p.m., Sunday, February 13 in the 
First Unitarian Church, Morewood Avenue and 
Ellsworth Street.
How Pittsburghers Can Act Against Racism.
At the next meeting of Squirrel Hill NOW, repre
sentatives of the Ad Hoc Committee to Counter 
Klan Activities and Pittsburghers Against Apar
theid will talk about local actions to eliminate 
racism. 7:30 p.m. at the Sixth Presbyterian 
Church on Forbes and Murray. Tuesday, Febru
ary 8. The public is welcome.
Hey there! This is the last week to apply for 
Freshman Orientation Counselor positions for 
the fall of 1983. People selected as counselors 
meet every two weeks from March to May and 
come back to school either two or five days early 
in the fall. Well be planning activities and pro
grams for the incoming freshpeople. Counselors 
also get to know other counselors. .. so check it 
out! APPLY NOW!
Steel Fellows Program representative Angie Carolan will lead a discussion about the effects of 
foreign imports on the American steel industry 
immediately following the regular 4:30 AIESEC 
meeting, Wednesday, February 9 in Skibo, Room 
11. Ms. Carolan will also be available to talk 
informally to any interested students or faculty 
between 2:00 and 3:30 p.m. Wednesday in GSIA, 
Room 316.
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documenta
tion will stage its fifth International Exhibition 
of Botanical Art and Illustration, April 11 to July 
15. This latest in a series of exhibitions held every 
five years will include 95 works representing 65 
contemporary artists. Most of the artworks have 
been borrowed from museums, galleries, pub
lishers and private individuals. The exhibition 
will be mounted in the Penthouse of the Hunt 
Library and will be open to the public, free of 
charge, from 8:30 a.m. to noon and 1 to 5 p.m., 
Monday through Friday. For further informa
tion, telephone the institute at 578-2434.
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music Project will 
present a concert on Tues., Feb. 15 at 8:00 p.m. at 
the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts at Fifth and 
Shady Aves., Shadyside. This is the fifth in a 
series of eight free concerts by the Project. The 
next concert will be Tues., March 29 at 3114 
Brereton, Polish Hill. For further information, 
call 682-1746 or 241-4243.
On February 12, Pittsburgh Plan for Art opens 
four new one-person shows. The work of James
H. McConomy, Kathleen Montgomery, Robert 
Qualters, and Charles P. Stewart will be on view 
until March 13, at Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 407 
South Craig Street, in Oakland, The show is free 
and open to the public. Gallery hours: Tuesday - 
Saturday 10-5; closed Sundays.
The Alumni Association and SARC
wish to thank everyone who helped 
make the class of I983s Senior Banquet 
a success.
A Special Thanks
to
AB Dance
for a wonderful ending 
to a special evening.
IMMIGRATION AND CITIZENSHIP 
LAW 
PERSONAL INJURY CLAIMS 
NO CHARGE FOR INITIAL 
CONSULTATION
Call Anytime: 281-4130 or 361-7911
ROBERT A. CREO 
GARY S. STEINER 
Attorneys at Law
Appointments Available in Downtown, 
Oakland , Squirrel Hill and Morningside 
locations days, evenings and Saturdays.
CALL 576-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanFebruary 8, 1983
Student Senate fails to aid organizations
Editor.
The purpose of student senate is to aid 
and foster our student organizations. The 
most powerful senate committee is the 
senate Finance Committee since it approves 
the budget for all student organizations that 
are funded by our activities fee. The Finance 
Committee is also responsible for keeping a 
check on the finances of the many student 
organizations. Therefore, the actions of the 
senate and the Finance Committee affect all 
students who belong to at least one student 
organization.
On January 20, 1983, Scotch N Soda was 
called before the senate Finance Committee 
to discuss its alleged computer misuse. Since 
both sides were lacking information, the 
Finance Committee asked Scotch N Sodas 
board to return the following week after 
more information was collected.
At the January 27th meeting, Scotch N 
Soda board brought forth the fact that the 
Computation Center had no complaint 
against Scotch N Soda. Obviously, the mat
ter should have been dropped at this point.
The Finance Committee was worried the 
Computation Center would bill the senate 
for Scotch N Sodas computer usage; how
ever, no complaint from the Computation 
Center would naturally mean no bill for the 
senate.
Despite this, the Finance Committee con
tinued their witch hunt. Being unable to 
find any wrongdoing with Scotch N Sodas 
computer account, the Finance Committee 
moved on to the subject of Scotch N Sodas 
budget deficit. Apparentiy Scotch N Soda 
was not informed on January 20 that their 
budget would be discussed at the next 
Finance Committee meeting; therefore, the 
Scotch N Soda board was unprepared to 
discuss it.
In any case, the Finance Committee 
recommended that Scotch N Soda be placed 
on probation and receivership, their reason
ing being that Scotch N Soda has had a 
deficit for the past three years. In their fair 
manner, the Finance Committee neglected 
the fact that this years board is completely 
different from those of past years and that
this years projections put Scotch N Soda 
under budget.
This past Tuesday at the senate meeting a 
motion was made to investigate the actions 
of the Finance Committee, yet at the same 
meeting a motion to table the vote on the 
Finance Committees recommendations 
failed by one vote. The Finance Commit
tees recommendations were approved by 
the full senate. Thus, Scotch N Soda was 
put on probation for this semester and 
receivership for one month.
Not only was Scotch N Soda punished 
for the deeds of past boards, but they were 
also punished for something which the 
Finance Committee did not originally call 
them up for. )
This should not be allowed to happen 
again. The Finance Committee should have 
to give a written statement to all organiza
tions that are called before it that details why 
the organization is being called. This would 
allow both the Finance Committee and the 
student organizations to properly prepare 
for the committee meetings.
Also, our present form of student govern 
ment has no system of checks and balances 
Some form of checks and balances is neces 
sary to prevent any future injustices to stu
dent organizations, possibly a judicial board 
made up of non-senators that would have 
the power to veto or throw out any decision 
made by the senate.
Basically the judicial branch would interpret the student constitution. To keep a 
check on the judicial branch, the senate 
would be able to overturn their decisions 
with a two-thirds vote.
What was done to Scotch N Soda was a 
threat to all student organizations. It has 
already set a poor precedent. We, the stu
dents of Camegie-Mellon, cannot allow this 
to continue. It is already too late for Scotch 
N Soda; it is not too late to put the senate in 
its place. I urge you to attend the senate 
meetings, to bother Nate, and to make your 
feelings known.
Michael Bett 
MCS Freshman
Before We Put You In Charge Of The World's Most Sophisticated Nuclear Equipment, 
We Put You Through The Worlds Most Sophisticated Nuclear Training.
It takes more than 16 
months of intensive 
training to become a 
fully qualified officer in 
the Nuclear Navy. You 
begin with four months 
of leadership training.
Then as a Navy officer 
you get a full year of 
graduate-level training 
unavailable anywhere else at any price.
Navy training is based on more than 
1900 reactor-years of experience. Right 
now the Navy operates over half the 
nuclear reactors in America. And the 
Navys nuclear equipment is the most 
sophisticated in the world. Thats why 
your Navy training is and must be the 
most sophisticated in the world.
As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, 
you have decision-making authority 
immediately. You get important manage
ment responsibility ^_____________
fast. Because in the 
Navy, as your knowl
edge grows, so does 
your responsibility.
Your training and 
experience place you 
among the countrys 
most qualified profes
sionals. (No surprise
NAVY OPPORTUNITY W 208
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about 
becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy. ( 0N )
Name.First(Please Print I
Address.
City____
Age--------
.State
.tCollege/University.
 Year in College. 
AM ajor/ Minor__
that most of the men 
who operate the 
reactors in private 
industry started in the 
Nuclear Navy.)
It takes more time 
and more effort to 
become an officer in the 
Nuclear Navy. But the 
rewards are greater, too.
The rewards can begin as early as 
your junior year in college. Qualify, and 
the Navy will pay you approximately 
$1000/month while you finish school.
After four years, with regular 
promotions and salary increases, you can 
be earning as much as $40,500. Thats on 
top of a benefits package that includes 
medical and dental care, and 30 days 
vacation earned every year. More 
responsibility, more money, more future. 
So, if youre majoring in math,
_______________ engineering or the
physical sciences, and 
vou want to know more 
about a future in 
nuclear power, fill in 
the coupon.
Todays Nuclear 
Navy is an opportunity 
like no other in the 
world.
Last 
.Apt. #_
_Zip_
Phone Number__________________________________(Area Code)Best Time to Call 
This is for general recruitment information You do not have to 
furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we
L
know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi
tions for which you qualify
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast
