The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 13, January 18, 1983.
Carnival theme 
is Adventure"
By PAULINE WENTartan Staffwriter
Although plans are far from being 
finalized, Adveriture has been named as 
the theme of Spring Carnival 83.
The logo has not yet been chosen, but 
Gina Osborn, the new chairman of the 
^Spring Carnival committee, hopes to get 
posters and t-shirts finished in a month in 
order to start the publicity campaign.
The midway chairman will meet within 
two weeks with any groups interested in 
setting up booths, according to Osborn.
Peter Levin, a senior in Electrical 
Engineering, resigned as committee 
chairman to become a section leader (TA) 
of an EE course this semester. Levin, a 
committee member since sophomore year, 
remains a member-at-large on the Spring 
Carnival committee and will still 
participate actively in the planning of the 
carnival.The Tartans played a tough Duquesne team in hockey Sunday and lost 3-2.
<^X'.yCW  ** gg| I
photo by Steve Winawer
"Guestimates from early budget plan:
15.4 million dollar IBM project will take up capital budget
By MONICA J. CELLIOTartan News Editor 
With the exception of the personal 
?computing project, capital investments by 
CMU will be small for the next few years, 
said Provost Richard Van Horn recently.
Most of what we spend will be on the 
Information Technology Center, Van 
Horn said. He added that some personal 
computers will be bought to relieve the load 
on the current computers, but that no big 
machines will be bought. The financial
Tutors needed to continue program
Hie tutoring program sponsored by the 
Division of Student Affairs, and 
administered by the Counseling and 
Student Development Center, will continue 
to offer free tutoring on a walk in basis for 
the introductory courses in Calculus, 
Physics, and Chemistry. These tutoring 
sessions will be held from 7:00 to 10:00 p.m., 
Monday through Thursday.
Three added options will increase the 
time available for tutoring in other subjects 
on both freshman and upperclass levels. 
Hie first option will be free tutoring in 
other undergraduate subjects during the 
7:00 to 10:00 p.m. tutoring sessions, 
provided that an appropriate student tutor 
is available on the resource list. If a suitable 
tutor is not available, a reasonable effort will
In This Issue
EditorialGood bye, Good luck.........page 2
NewsComputing and you...........page 8Construction begins on ITC page 9 
FeaturesMovement Extravaganza . page 11Escape to Florida.................page 12
EntertainmentYear in Review...............page 16New film reviews...............page 17
Sports^ys basketball to be on Lv. page 21Hockey splits a pair...........page 21
be made to find one.
The second option will be low cost 
tutoring, at a time convenient to both the 
tutor and the tutee. Thus, if a student wants 
tutoring in an undergraduate subject, but 
cannot or does not wish to schedule his 
session during the regular tutoring hours, 
he may schedule other hours. When such 
tutoring is scheduled through the tutoring 
coordinator, Amy Ciric, the service can be 
provided at $ 1.00/hr.
Finally, there will be a tutoring referral 
service. Information about other tutoring 
programs on campus, and names of 
students interested in tutoring in any subject 
area will be provided. It will be the students 
responsibility to arrange all subsequent 
details, including time, pay, etc.
The tutoring program is looking for 
capable tutors for this expanded tutoring 
program.
Tutors are needed for a wide range of 
abilities and subjects. Prospective tutors 
should have a good QPA, or be proficient in 
a particular subject. Department or faculty 
recommendations may be required. Workstudy funding is preferred, but not required.
Tutors with work-study funding would 
work during the regular 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. 
tutoring hours, or at a different time, 
negotiated by the tutor, student, and 
tutoring coordinator. Tutors without workstudy funding will be put on a reference list; 
such tutors would negotiate hours and pay 
with the student.
If you are interested in being a tutor, 
contact the Counseling and Student 
Development Center in Baker Hall 135.
picture in this area doesnt look good for the 
next couple of years, he said.
Its too expensive, he added. Its more 
than just the cost of buying the machines.
CMU will be investing its money in the 
joint project with IBM to develop a personal 
computing network. Van Horn said that 
CMU will get all the money back, but that 
it has to be invested initially.
The total cost of the project was recently 
estimated by administrators of the project to 
be approximately 15.4 million dollars. Of 
this, about 6.3 million is the expected cost of 
the ITC. IBM will pay the overhead 
charges associated with the ITC, Van Horn 
said, but we have to pay for the initial 
building.
IBM will also pay salaries of people who 
work at the ITC, which are expected to total
about 7.4 million dollars.
Van Horn stressed that these figures were 
guestimates from an early budget plan. A 
copy of the plan, which was produced on 
the printer in Wean Hall, was apparendy 
misplaced and came into the possession erf an 
anonymous student. Van Horn confirmed 
the figures but did not know7 of any security 
problems.
Doug Van Houweling, vice provost for 
computing, suspected that the copy may 
have been stolen. He stated that offices in 
Warner Hall had been ransacked a fewr 
months ago, but at the time nothing had 
appeared to be missing except some money.
Van Horn added, We arent trying to 
keep anything from the students, and were 
more than willing to talk about issues 
which concern them.
Charter suspended
ByP AULINEUW UEWIUplIEa
By JOANNE SAVINELL
Tartan Associate News Editor
The charter of Alpha Tau Omega frater
nity has been suspended for one year. The 
decision, made at the end of last semester 
and confirmed Friday, will be reviewed 
again at the end of this term.
With a suspended charter, ATO may not 
build a booth for carnival, or participate in 
Greek Sing or Buggy. They are also not 
peimitted to hold open or advertized parties, 
hang posters or their mixer sign, or have 
intramural teams under the name of ATO.
The brothers may still live and have 
dinner in the house, and as before, they will 
be responsible for the running of the house. 
A dormitory, on the other hand, is managed 
by the university. The spring and fall rush 
for new members will be allowed.
The fraternity, cunendy on probation, 
will remain on probation until 1985. Seven
ATO brothers have been removed from the 
house by orders of the disciplinary commit
tee and Brad Walter, Dean of Student 
Affairs.
ATO had appealed these actions.
Memorial mass 
will be held
Irene A. Dougherty, director of auxiliary 
services, died recendy at age 55, in the Forbes 
Hospice, East End. The funeral mass was 
held at St. Lawrence OToole Church.
Dougherty was a member of the Middle 
Adantic and National Associations erf 
College Stores, and was past president of the 
Business Professional Womens Association 
erf Pittsburgh.
A memorial mass for Irene Dougherty 
will be held in the Hunt Library multipur
pose room at 12 oclock noon, Wednesday, 
January 19, 1983.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Old ynUIns board says  Th Th That's all folks
What do you say in your last editiorial?Goodbye?Good luck?Its been cosmic?
The Tartan is changing its skin this week  the old one is getting old and cracked and a little tired.It has been quite a year though. We saw the passing away of good people  from last years Reverend William Clancy, and Professor Julius Ashkin to last months Valerie Brandt  the old and the young.We remember hearing the celebrated rightwing policies of G. Gordon Liddy, infamous for his involvement in the Watergate break-ins and his offbeat appetite for small rodents.The Lure of the Sea made a big splash as the Spring Carnival theme, and one of The 
Tartans writers got all wet when he was caught plagiarizing.Student Union plans were run through the blender again along with the Drama Departments budget allocations for Merton of the 
Movies.The proposal of a new alcohol policy (mostly the mere rumor that there was one) had the university buzzing (couldnt resist) for a time.Then of course came the national news
breaker when IBM signed a contract with CMU for research, and Dr. Cyert announced his plan for a computer in every room.Lets see, there was ZBTs gravestone gala, ATOs hearing, and a wonderful resurgence of the war between the Greeks and the non  mostly fought on this page.Remember last year when Student Senate organized a write your congressmen day? Students exercised their constitutional right to disagree with governmental cuts in financial aid. Meanwhile, President Cyert got more publicity by sitting out of a meeting to protest financial aid cuts than his statewide counterparts did by attending. And, oh yes, tuition went up by 19%.Then of course theres Nate Solano. The man who pulled twinkies out of a briefcase during the Senate presidential debates. The same man who wanted to remove the ampersand from the college of H (and) SS not only won the election, but he actually got this campus to unite and rally against the tuition increase (Dr. Cyert referred to it as corrupting the underclassmen). Were still wondering why  upon this papers request for a statement  Dr. Cyert declined to write a column for The Tartan which would help explain the increase.
Its been quite a year. And a lot of questions are still screaming to be answered. Its difficult to end, especially since we know now what last years old board somehow tried to tell us. Some things you just cant tell.Is this the point where something profound and philosophical should be said?
Well, weve learned that the truth is a very ferocious animal, of which a lot of people are afraid. The Tartan has been guilty at times of piinting perceptions rather than truths  one does not necessarily lead to the other. But we are still students, and whatever we are guilty of it isnt of putting our heads in the sand. Weve tried to make ourselves and the students aware of things  please judge us kindly.
The future of The Tartan next year as it hasl been this year (and as it probably will be in the 8 next ten years) will no doubt be a roller coaster [ of learning experiences for the editorial boards | that serve on it.
We, the old board, know Cellio and Com-1 pany will govern the new board with concern and hard work. So as the new Tartan wriggles out of the old, remember that adjusting to tender new skins is a difficult process. Jq, We know youll go far. Good luck Monica, J
Prez is backSome sound advice from Nate: don't drive drunk
By Nate Solano
Hello, how are you doing? Did you have a 
nice Christmas? Oh, thats good. Whats 
your major?
I guess the first order of business is to 
| inform the student body that 
I Bill Manna (alias: Dr. Bong) 
graduated last semester and even 
I got a diploma. Its been a long 
seven (?) years Bong, but you made it and 
were proud.
At this time it has come to my attention 
that there is a new Drunk Driving law in 
Pennsylvania. This law demands that first
time offenders face a mandatory $300 fine 
plus 48 hours in jail or placement in a reha
bilitative program. A second conviction 
means a mandatory 30 days in jail, etc. The 
simple fact is, one should not drive drunk.
However if one is forced to drive when 
drunk, here are some tips for not getting 
arrested. (We thought these up driving 
home on New Years Eve.)
1.) Always carry Visine so your eyes 
arent red and you can tell the cop 
that youre just very tired.
2.) Eat half a pack of Velamints (wintergreen is preferable). Do not substitute with Certs.
3.) Here is a chart which explains how
to cope with driving at various lev
els of intoxication.
Intake How to accomplish driving
Half Case Get friend to find amphet
amines.
Full Case Get friend to find more
amphetamines and maybe 
you should stop at Mr. 
Donut for coffee.
2 Beers Go for it! Youre still A.J.
Fovt.Johnston slated for Tartan's board
By Christopher Johnston
As it is that all things, including colum
nists, change and stay the same, 1 have 
switched jobs here in the hallowed halls of 
The Tartan. I will be an assistant newsedi-/
tor and as such will no longer be 
 scribbling this column. Sorry. 
Too bad. You wont have me to 
p f> kick you around anymore.
As one history professor pointed out to 
me recendy, I dont let the facts interfere 
with my opinions, you might wonder why I 
am going to assume a job that demands a 
modicum of objectivity. Well, it is for 
exactly that reason that I have chosen to 
retire my opinionated pen and attempt to 
write news that shows little trace of my own 
views, (no matter how right they may be).
I was rather exasperated when I com
plained about the objectivity erf the news in 
The Tartan, and was given the old o.k. you 
do it line. I vied for an assistant position, 
and was miffed to find that I was given the 
job. What an outrage. Expecting me to do 
something? Shocking.
The column has been a source of enter
tainment to me and a way to butcher sacred 
cows, but I feel if one has to search for 
objects of derision, then perhaps its time to 
pack it in and move on. After a certain point, 
the column ceases to interest the reader and 
become a futile instrument of selfindulgence for the writer.
Thoughout the semester this column has 
not appeared three times. Once, I blew it off 
when I attended a conference in Princeton, 
New Jersey, and twice it was not printed. I 
could say suppressed, but that wouldnt be 
fair, but then again Ive never been accused 
of being fair. One of the columns, a letter 
about student government in the Dear 
Nate format, I later realized was in rather 
poor taste, but I thought nevertheless, quite 
witty and it had a serious point. The other 
column concerned an extremely violent 
incident I witnessed outside of Beta in which 
a man was bloodied, and his car destroyed. I 
thought it one of my better columns. But, 
such is life.
Of course, this decision to quit excepts the 
unforeseen occurrence of an outrage so 
aggregious that it demands sudden satiric 
attention. Otherwise, I will relieve that urge 
through Natrat articles. As a matter of fact, I 
already have several articles written and sev
eral others in the works.
However, while I still have a column I can 
still make a point. Whats the matter with 
you people? Youre always complaining 
about The Tartan, but making no effort to 
do anything about it. Are you just a riotous 
group of recreant ruffians?
I dont know, but Im going to give you a 
chance to get one for the Gipper. I need 
news writers to fill the ranks in that section. 
Writing news is a remarkably easy task, and
Ill personally show any volunteers how to 
do it. It doesnt matter whether you are an 
engineer or a Physical Plant worker. You 
can do it, because Ill teach you.
I can be contacted through The Tartan 
office by leaving a note or phone message, or 
you can send me computer mail on TopsB 
or TopsE, (my friends call me cj lg). Another 
alternative is to come to one of the Tartan 
meetings when we advertise.
And so, as you read this, your eyes brim
ming with tears perhaps, I want you to 
remember that if you are one of those people 
that I insulted throughout the semester, and 
you were offended by my rank statements 
about your religion, your organization, or 
your personal habits, you can always force 
me to atone for my sins by writing for The 
Tartan. So do it. Now.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letters to the editor are opinions of indwidual authors 
icho are usually members of the University commun
ity. letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number for 
xenficalion. Names will be withheld upon request. 
11m* 1 urtan reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
6-pack Open all car windows, turn
up stereo, splash water on I 
face, eat aspirin, and drink | 
Pepto-Bismol.
1 Botde Throw up on fender and pass *
Bankers out beneath car. (Not so good 1
Club in winter.)
anything
But remember this is only if you realljm 
have to drive drunk.
My office hours will remain Wednesday* 
from 3-5 p.m. and Thursday from 7-9 pm 1 
My phone number remains 687-6404. I ani gj 
open to any concern.
Nate Solano is a junior majoring in pub  
lie policy and management and is president 
of the student government.
m
Editor in Chief....................................Alice Alfonsi
Managing Editor...............................Vince Guinto
Business Manager.............................Louise Crocoll
News Editor*........................ ... Monica Cellio
Features Editor............................... Geot Becker
Entertainment Editor.........................Sue Peme
Sports Editor.................................Jeff Bergmai^
Photography Editor............................John Stilwell
Production Manager.............Carolyn Speranza I
Ad Manager...................................BonnieTopi ;
Typesetting Manager......................Patti Caili$lfH
Contributing Editor......................Gregg Bossier I
Associate News Editor.............Joanne Savinell 
Assoc. Features Editor.............Pauline kratffr Jg
Associate Photo Editor....................Gene Yonisl1 J
Asst Opinion Editor......................Peter Bain
Asst. Ent. Editor...........................John Cantii*
Asst. Sports Editor................................Ric Medro*
Asst. Business Mgr........................Kathy
Produttion Staff: Margaret Eissler, AndltW 
Ghali, Monica Safrin, and Pauline Wen.
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial 
reserves the right to withhold from publication n'B 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial 
Skibo 50, (-412) 578-2111. Business Offices. Skibo kP 
(412) 578-2112. 21 hour phone, (112) 578-2113. Ma'lini| 
address: Box 17, Srhenley Park, Pittsburgh PA lr-' [ 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

January 18, 1983The TartanPage 3
Shapiro laments loss of 
certain Cabinet members
By Stuart Shapiro
The good dont necessarily die young. In 
this case they just left early. Like so many 
things in life, the recent Cabinet resigna
tions are a mixture of good news and bad 
news. The good news is that a 
couple of Reagans Cabinet cro
nies are departing. The bad 
news is that theyre not the ones 
the country could well do without.
As it happens, Transportation Secretary 
Drew Lewis and Health and Human Sevices 
Secretary Richard Schweiker are among the 
more capable members of Reagans 
Cabinet. As soon as President-elect Reagan 
began choosing his Cabinet back in the 
heady days (for Republicans at least) of 1980, 
it quickly became apparent (to Democrats 
and a few Republicans) that prudent com
petence was in desperately short supply.
So it gladdened more than a few hearts to 
witness the nomination of a couple of level
headed professionals like Lewis and 
Schweiker. The shrill denunciations of 
PATCO and Planned Parenthood aside, 
Lewis and Schweiker have turned in respec
table performances.
Lewis didnt bust the air traffic con
trollers union; the union busted itself. 
Lewis simply carried out his responsibilities 
as set forth by law. Believe me, it hurts to be 
on the same side as Reagan and his anti
union buddies, but I cant cry for PATCO.
Whether or not its members should have 
been forced to swear they wouldnt strike is 
debatable, but is beside the point. The oath 
had been taken; PATCO was aware of the 
ground rules going in. That Secretary Lewis 
was forced to dismiss so many controllers 
pleases me not at all. The fact that he dis
charged his duty under the law with a cool 
professionalism and distinct lack of rancor 
does. Since then, Lewis has proven himself 
one of the most capable and politically savvy 
members of the Reagan entourage.
Likewise, Richard Schweiker has per
formed notably. Placed in the difficult posi
tion of chief administrator of the welfare 
apparatus his boss has vowed to dismantle, 
Schweiker has fought quietly behind the 
scenes to prevent Administration zealots 
from gutting vital financial and health 
assistance programs to an even greater 
extent than they already have.
All things considered, his performance 
has not been too shabby. Indeed, it could 
have, despite what the Kennedy crowd 
might have you believe, been a lot worse.
So Im understandably distressed by the 
fact that were still stuck with several 
Cabinet members who are a lot worse. Most 
notable among these are Secretary of the 
Interior James "Strip Mining Forever Watt 
and Labor Secretary Ray Skeletons in the 
Closet Donovan. Their departure would 
send many a champagne cork popping. But 
so far, the President has not seen fit to get rid 
of the patendy unfit. I only hope they arent 
expecting company.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student and is 
a columnist for The Tartan.
'Minorities" reply
Author respectfully replies to Leroy and Quigley
Editor
I wholeheartedly agree with Mark Oberkirchners view that in recent months, The 
Tartan has become a verbal battleground. 
Nevertheless, at the risk of sounding hypo
critical, I find myself forced to write this 
letter in response to an article written by 
Leroy and Quigley (rejects from Laveme 
and Shirley, no doubt) which was subtided 
Media vs. Minorities?
I cannot sit idly by and watch such poorly 
researched material be put into print; not at 
a university which stresses intelligent think
ing and solid research.
If Leroy and Quigley wished to write an 
article which dealt with the affairs of minor
ities (i.e. blacks) on this campus, they would
have been well advised to consult with such, 
in order to assure that the material which 
they intended to write was truth, and not 
just empty-headed misconceptions. It is my 
intention to now set the record straight.
Firsdy, the authors state that, There 
exists on this campus an amazing lack of 
communication between blacks and 
whites. I wonder whether the authors have 
considered that perhaps the lack of com
munication which they perceive between 
blacks and whites on this campus could be a 
personal problem, and not one which affects 
the entire campus community. I can truth
fully say that the number of white friends 
which I have on this campus is roughly 
triple the number of black. Furthermore, we 
have no trouble communicating.
Resolutions: a mental struggle
By Catherine Stroud Vodrey
Most of us have already broken at least 
half of our New Years Resolutions. And it 
isnt even Februarv yet! I didnt bother to 
make any this year, after recalling last years 
mental struggle on the matter.
New Years Resolutions have 
never come easily to me. I usufj ally get caught in the lose-fivepounds-study-more-be nicer-write moreletters syndrome, but that only seems 
plausible for about the first six minutes. 
After that, the pessimist in me (who thinks I 
dont even know how to spell resolution,
much less stick to one) begins to argue with 
the optimist. The optimist, incidentally, 
thinks I can do anything.
Come on, sneers the pessimist. Lose 
five pounds? This girl lives for ice cream. 
She dreams of peanut butter crackers. 
Besides, she doesnt need to lose any weight. 
Shes tall. She can carry it.
But shed look better five pounds ligh
ter, explains the optimist with infinite 
patience.
Better, my foot. Emaciated is more like 
it.
Slender.
iElectric monsters
If
Editor:
Presendy there is one unused storefront in 
the Margaret Morrison Plaza. Ive heard 
rumors that the Student Government plans 
to turn it into a recreation room full of video 
games. I think this is ridiculous. The CMU 
campus is already overrun with the electric 
monsters and needs no more.
I have a better idea that I would like to 
propose. Why not turn the storefront into an 
gallery for non-art majors? If an engi
neer, like myself, would like to get a group 
people together to display work that 
weve done, but cant get into the crowded 
Forbes Street facility, that storefront would
be ideal.
Why should Art majors be the only ones 
allowed to strut their stuff? Instead of art for 
the masses, why not have art by the masses?
The implementation of this idea would 
be more economical than a ret room, since it 
could be renovated by student volunteers 
and operated much the way Forbes Street 
presendy is. Besides, students would be get
ting entertainment that they dont have to 
pay for, and that wont disappear in two 
minutes after the last Pac-man has been 
eaten.
Arnold Bowen 
Sophomore, Mech E
Concentration camp.
Moving right along . . . sighs the 
optimist.
Yeah, well, what about studying more? 
Shes up till past midnight as it is, states the 
pessimist.
On the phone.
She studied before that.
"For how long? asks the optimist.
Till her eyes fell out.
Her eyes look intact to me.
Whatever. Listen, what about being 
nicer. I mean, theres nice and then theres 
nice. Drippy nice. We certainly dont want 
that.
Well, no danger there, giggles the 
optimist. Shes too moody for that. 
Changeable, you mean.
Lets not discuss aesthetics. Have you 
anything to sav about writing letters? 
"Yeah, retorts the pessimist. She writes 
about three letters a week.
Hmmm . . . thats true. She does like to 
write letters.
Well, then.
I guess youre right, sighs the optimist. 
Shes good for another year. She writes let
ters, huh? I guess we can setde for everything 
else the way it is.
"Guess so.
Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore 
majonng in creative writing and is a colum
nist for The Tartan.
Secondly, the authors state that, This 
reporter spent most erf his CMU experience 
believing that whites were not even allowed 
to attend any Spirit functions. The fact that 
you spent most of your CMU experience 
believing this fallacy is obviously due to one 
factor; you never took the initiative to ask. 
Had you done so, you would have found 
that whites are not only allowed to attend 
Spirit functions, but that we encourage 
them to do so (allow me to extend a formal 
invitation to Spirits Annual Fashion Show, 
date to be announced).
Thirdly, the authors go on to say that, 
"There are only 3 fraternities on campus 
with black brothers. As a result, an all black 
fraternity exists within the campus com
munity. Theyre the guys that walk around 
dressed in army boots and red sweatshirts.
Allow me to set the record straight once 
and for all. There is no all black fraternal 
organization at CMU. The people whom 
you mentioned are brothers of Kappa Alpha 
Psi, a Pitt based fraternity. Contrary to what 
you stated in the article, K.A. Psi does not 
exist due to the fact that only three fraterni
ties on this campus have black pledges. 
They are a nationwide fraternal organiza
tion which has been in existence since A pail 
15, 1911. The army boots and sweatshirts 
which you mentioned are part erf a tempor
ary, esoteric pledging ritual, much like 
being doused with buckets of liquid in the 
Morewood fountain is with CMU fraterni
ties. They are not, as your article implies, a 
perpetual trademark of the fraternity 
members.
Fourthly, after rambling on about how 
there exists a racial problem on campus, the 
authors suggest that The Tartan be used asa 
vehicle to help bridge the gap between CMU 
blacks and whites. However, the authors 
reject this solution because there are no 
blacks on The Tartan staff, not because they 
are excluded, but because none have volun
teered to write for The Tartan.
Although there are no blacks who hold 
editorships with The Tartan, lean think of 
several blacks (one being myself) who are 
either contributing writers or photo
graphers. In fact, the percentage of blacks on 
The Tartan staff is roughly proportional to 
their percentage representation among the 
CMU student body. Thus, how can you so 
ludicrously state that there are none cm The 
ByPAUPLIN yP EWpI l

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanJanuary 18, 1983
BrnAnen fLoUsEmb n iEUWLsnr EgiEUpEslE L INE Lra dLoIN
By Peter Bain
I went to high school in Birmingham, Al
abama. When I went home for Christmas I 
saw my old friends. One day I caught a ride 
from home to Birmingham with a friend 
who is going to school in Ala
bama after going to the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania last year. 
We talked as he drove, going 
from suburbia out into the country. We 
passed a familiar truckstop and turned off 
onto a road that was last paved quite a long 
time ago. We both knew the shacks and 
mobile homes along the potholed, half-dirt 
route from experience.
As I saw them pass by, I noticed the Bap
tist church with the revival banner on the 
bend before the state Church of Christ camp
ground. You dont know what it means to 
live far from the city, close to the earth and 
God, and on very litde untill you see Bibb 
county. You dont get any radio stations very 
well out here.
Green Pond, Alabama, is the turn that 
has the truckstop. Thats about all, except 
for the baseball field with the red clay and 
the creosote poles with bulbs on top for 
lighting, the U.S. Post office, and a 7-11. 
Green Pond is part of the soul of Alabama. 
My friend, who went to school in Philadel
phia and was driving us in a Peugeot, has an 
aunt who lives here.
Coming home to Birmingham brought 
me back to the rest of Alabama. The mills 
are closed here, just as they are in Young
stown and Homestead. In the good days of a
few years ago, one couldnt have mistaken 
the smell or the clarity of the air, the particu
lates of what made Birmingham work. 
Since then, weve been second or third next 
to Michigan in unemployment.
On the other side of town, closer to down
town, I went in to check up on where I had 
worked this past summer. I saw the rebel 
flag stuck on the foremans truck as I pulled 
into the parking lot. He and I had gotten 
along, although I didnt necessarily laugh at 
all his jokes.
When I got inside I was warmly greeted; 
welcomed back to the family. Things were 
going well, no slack in the business because 
they were lucky. They were happy to see me, 
and I explained that I had been going to 
school up North in Pittsburgh. I wanted to
CMU Sororities announce starting of spring rush
By MARGARET EISSLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Have you ever considered joining a soror
ity? Well, even if you havent, heres your
chance!
Spring Rush begins on Wednesday, Janu
ary 19. Panhel is sponsoring a pizza studyLeroy & Quigley response
ByPAUPLIN anys EWpI r
Tartan staff? Once again, poor research has 
proven your undoing.
Lasdy, the'authors suggest that The Tar
tan could recruit from among the minori
ties. This is ultimately found to be an 
unacceptable course of action because The 
Tartan doesnt go out of its way to recruit 
from the white population. There are no 
quotas on this newspaper. I agree that 
minorities should not be recruited for The 
Tartan merely because they are minorities. 
We have never asked to be, nor do we desire 
to be catered to by The Tartan or anyone
else. Students should become members of 
The Tartan staff for one reason only; they 
enjoy writing.
I would like to apologize to Leroy and 
Quigley for any offense which may have 
been transmitted by means of this letter. It 
was not meant to do such, but was written 
only to make you aware of the errors which 
existed in your observations. Hopefully, you 
will take this constructive criticism to heart, 
and your next article will be reflective of 
such.
Donald Starver 
Soph. ChemE
Scotch N Soda
the student drama club of Camegie-Mellon
Announces a director's call 
for the 
1983 Spring Musical:
Carried Awav
Bock and lyrics by Mark Levine 
Music by Joe Hasper
Saturday, January 22nd at 
I pm. in Skibo 45
break that day in the Margaret Morrison Rec 
Room (below the sororities) at 9:00 p.m.
The sororities rushing this spring are Chi 
Omega, Delta Gamma, and Kappa Kappa 
Gamma.
come back to see how everybody was doing,
Well, the new posters of the recently 
retired Bear Bryant were up, and I said hello 
to one of the workers. We had been friendly 
as Southerners are. He had come from Ohio 
to the South after the war and had a Klansmans cross taped on the wall at his 
workstation.
I recall how suprised I was when he took 
the black printing press operator out for a 
sandwich. Thats the other part of the Ala
bama psyche  the part that gave George C. 
Wallace a large portion of the black vote in 
November. The same George Wallace who 
years earlier pledged himself for segregation 
forever. Now paralyzed and deafened, he 
will be trying to lead a state most known for 
its football and its reactionary conservatism.
Returning to Camegie-Mellon, Alabama 
seems much farther away. But, whenever 1 
get a letter from my friends or call home, lt 
think back to Green Pond and try to relate it 
to the Clash. Its then that I realize how 
disparate my two lives are, and how Ive 
chosen the academic life of a university over 
the other.
Peter Bain is a sophomore in AMS and is 
assistant op/ed editor for The Tartan.
funded by activits fee
Pittsburgh is our home. Lets clean house!Pittsburgh Clean City Committee, Inc:
CMU & CIT STUDENTS AND GRADUATES!
efomf beif fgd
Where: BAKER HALL 
When: 10 AM - 4 PM
Date:
WED & THURS 
JAN. 19 & 20
Deposit: $16.00
SENIORS HAVE YOUR RING FOR 
GRADUATION. ORDER NOWI!

---------------------------------------------------

January 18, 1983The TartanPage 5
The Tartan wishes Vince a Happy Birthday
Vince Joseph Guinto Jr. was telling me again the other day of his days as captain of a ship in the Mediterranean with a crew of midgets. Captain Vinny, as I call him, loves to talk. In the past three years of living with him I have heard his stories enough to recite his life in my sleep. I often have dreams of him selling a taxicab to an Arab in New York City for a $40,000 sum he frittered away at the track.Captain Vinny first happened into my life on a westbound train. I was on my way to start my academic career at CMU and he was fleeing Boston where he owed his landlady much back rent. "Smiles only go so far, he told me. When I related my story of coming to Pittsburgh, he was intrigued. Pittsburgh was a city he had never been to and he#sked if he could come along. When I finally agreed I didnt expect him to move in with me. I was appalled at the thought of losing sleep because of his rambling on about Europe and the South Pacific and all of those women.But you know what? It didnt take long at all for me to be drawn closer to the OF Capn. His tales drew me in like a magnet. Over the next three years I considered him the greatest person you would ever want to meet. In all of his stories there was nothing that I can remember him disliking. I asked him once at dinner if there was anything that he did not like, to which he replied, "Yes, these peas  they taste terrible.Probably my favorite story of his is the one about Lauren, the Princess of Luxembourg. As it goes Captain Vince was invited to the castle for dinner, at the request of the Princess whose eye he had caught. The Captain, in his regal splendor, started a food fight by flinging a stuffed squash at a Spanish dignitary at the end of the table. The guests joined in the festivities flinging pastries, vegetables and rolls. Captain Vinny fled the ensuing rage of a maddened king, bidding the Princess Lauren adieu.The best part happened here in Pittsburgh. By strange coincidence, I had run into the Princess in Shadyside as I was going to get the Captain a present for his birthday. Lauren was here on a diplomatic mission, something about importing more goldfish into Luxembourg. I recognized her from a picture of the two of them at the castle Captain Vinny always carries with him. By chance Laurens birthday was in the same week and I asked if she would mind getting together with the Captain in celebration. Captain Vinny was thoroughly delighted to see the Princess again. They had a party for themselves with Dominos pizza and Spudnuts doughnuts.For those who could not tell this was far from seriousness: this was written by Vinces roommate on behalf of his friends and also for Lauren, both of whom we love dearly. We all hope that we have contributed to making your birthdays your best. Happy Birthday!
Free Tape Recorded Legal or Medical Information
*281-4664
are amounts you 
subtract directly from 
your tax. Check your 
instructions for 
details.
A public service 
message from the 
Internal Revenue Service
vetueefmv
2-Year Full Tuition 
Scholarships
Available Through
Army Officer Commissioning Program
(Cumnt Participation Is Not Required)
hEESUBWAUyP tInUyNC 
mSUpUUSUA8C
vISIBAUyP 3nUAInUWC 
.IPIaUAcC
Now
Scholarship begins in the fall term
 2.8 cumulative Q.P.A. or better
 Full-time student
 Be less than 25 years of age on 30 June of 
graduating year
Based primarily on evaluation of academic 
achievement, leadership potential and degree of 
success in college.
Pays all tuition costs, fees, supplies, and books 
and provides $100 per month in school financial 
assistance (for up to 10 months each year the 
scholarship is in effect).
For further information, contact 
Captain Michael, Schulte, CMU 
at 578-2205 
or visit our office at Margaret Morrison Hall, 
2nd basement
Computer Science 
& Electrical Engineering Majors...
ROLM, with locations in the San Francisco Bay 
Area and Austin, Texas seeks talented individuals 
interested in:
SOFTWARE
 Real-Time Computing
 Distributed Systems
 Operating Systems
 Data Base Management Systems
 Data Communications
 Diagnostics
 Electronic Mail
 Software Tools: Compliers, Debuggers, etc.
 Test Engineering
 Support Engineering
ROLM Corporation, founded in 1969, has 
experienced a growth rate exceeding 70% a year 
and currently has more than 5200 employees.
ROLM is the leading independent supplier of 
computer controlled voice and data business 
communications systems and has been a pioneer 
in developing computers which operate suc
cessfully in severe environments.
Included in ROLMs outstanding benefits 
package are:
 Highly competitive base salaries.
 Profit sharing and stock purchase plans.
 Comprehensive health, dental and life 
insurance programs.
 Three month paid sabbatical after six years.
 Tuition reimbursement for graduate study at 
leading universities.
 A recreation center unsurpassed in its facilities 
and available programs.
rOn Campus Interviews
yPNW8, OWPLWn8 wl
IIA -UA( yLn cyaA-WnI IPpUPIInc anys feT 
UP A(I tSWBIsIPA 3IPAIn) vII yLn 3ysEWP8 SUAD
InWALnI UP A(I tSWBIsIPA 3IPAIn)
If unable to attend an interview, send resume to: 
Tim Dorman, Corporate Employment Manager, 
ROLM Corporation, 4900 Old Ironsides Drive, 
M/S 105, Santa Clara, CA 95050. We are an equal 
opportunity/affirmative action employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon University 
and the university community
wish to thank -
The alumni, friends, 
foundations, and corporationsWho contributed$14,509,442.31-
**: - ' ^
For such important university needs 
as scholarships, fellowships, 
professorships, equipment, facilities,
and new programs -
In support of Carnegie Mellon University 
and its concept of private higher education.
iLfULii
CarnegieMellon University

---------------------------------------------------

January 18, 1983The TartanPage 7
Money awarded
CMU receives grant to research circuit design
The Semiconductor Research 
Corporation (SRC), a consortium funded by 
major semiconductor manufacturers and 
Users, has awarded Carnegie-Mellon 
University a $750,000 grant to establish a 
center-of-excellence for research into 
computer-aided design of very large scale
Every year in January and February the 
CMU Development Office holds its student 
phonathons. Students call CMU alumni to 
ask for their donation to this years annual 
fund.
There are two first place prizes of $100 
cash and two second place prizes of $50 each 
for the student groups with the highest 
dollar total and the highest number of 
increased gifts.
Twenty phones are available each 
evening. Groups are encouraged to sign up 
for more than one night to increase totals. If 
a group has ten people or fewer, they can 
reserve half or one third of the phones for an 
evening. Students who are interested may 
also participate as individuals.
In addition to prizes given to the 
organizations, two nightly prizes are 
awarded to the students who obtain the 
highest number of pledges and have the 
highest dollar total.
Computer center 
renames machines
This semester all of the computers on the 
computer center were renamed for easier 
identification.
The change was made because CMUs 
computers have become more accessible to 
people at other schools and institutions. It is 
impossible, however, to identify TOPSB 
and VAXA as CMU computers, so new 
names have been devised.
The new names each have six characters. 
All begin with CM for Camegie-Mellon. 
The next two characters identify the 
department which owns the computer (CS 
for computer science, CC for computation 
center, etc), and the last two identify the 
specific machine (TA for TOPS A, for 
example). VAXA is now CMCCVA and 
TOPSB is CMCCTB.
Tim Rice 
is looking for an 
Andrew Lloyd Webber
Call Raymond Bednar Jr. 
after 3:00 p.m. 
379-4384
Now. . .
Two Pregnancy 
Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh. PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Downtown
625 Stanwix Street 
12th FloorAllegheny Tower 
 Pittsburgh. PA 15222services (412)5621914
Free pregnancy testing daily Call for hours 3nd 
instructions. Confidential counseling available
integrated (VLSI) circuits. Once established, 
the SRC plans to continue funding the 
center at a rate of about $1 million a year.
The Semiconductor Research 
Corporation exists to conduct research 
which will include scientific study and 
experimentation directed toward increasing
Student callers also receive a free long 
distance phone call at the end of the evening.
Free pizza and beverages are served to 
provide extra energy to callers.
Phonathons will be held Sunday through 
Wednesday of each week until February 23.
Alumni gifts go towards developing 
facilities such as the Robotics Institute,
renovating laboratories and classrooms and 
providing the up-to-date equipment needed
to train students. The CMU Fund has a goal 
of $3.025 million.
For more information call Linda 
Schumacher, Assistant Director, CMU 
Fund. x2021. 519l Warner Hall.
knowledge and understanding in the fields 
of engineering and physical sciences related 
to the semiconductor field. The SRC is a 
direct result of discussions among executives 
of semiconductor device producer and user 
companies to help address the challenges 
US industry was facing.
The SRC-CMU Research Center for 
Computer-Aided Design, which will reside 
on the second floor of Hammerschlag Halls 
east wing, is a natural outgrowth of research 
which has been carried on in the Electrical 
Engineering Department over the last 
decade. This early research pioneered 
methods of formally describing the behavior 
of large digital systems and the development 
of techniques which would automatically 
design systems that have the desired 
behavior. Because of the high degree of 
complexity possible with VLSI technology 
(chips less than one quarter inch square can 
now contain over a half a million 
transistors) such automatic design methods 
have become mandatory.
Recendy this research effort has grown to 
include development of user-machine 
interfaces, development of methods for 
accurately predicting the outcome of the
integrated circuit manufacturing process, 
and the application of artificial intelligence 
methods to automatic design. A major goal
of the SRC-CMU research center will be to 
develop an integrated design environment
which will provide the capabilities for 
designing VLSI circuits.
In addition to direct support from the 
SRC, the research center has obtained
funding from the National Science 
Foundation, the Army research office, and a
number of individual companies through 
an industial affiliates program. Recendy
General Electric, International Telephone 
and Telegraph, Hewlett Packard, and
Digital Equipment Corp., have each agreed 
to contribute $ 100,000 or more a year in cash
or equipment to become members of the 
Industrial Affiliate Program.
Steve Director, Head erf the Electrical 
Engineering Deptartment is the director of 
the center. The Associate Director is Donald
E. Thomas, Jr., Associate Professor of 
Electrical Engineering.
EE and Computer Science graduates
Answer yes you owe yourself an interview with NORDENMonday, Jan. 24
Are you excited by the idea of becoming part of a develop
ment team probing outer reaches of military electronics 
technologiesfar beyond the scope of commercial 
efforts? ? YES
Do you want to create state-of-the-art military hardware and 
software for land, sea, and air... like a U.S. Marines master 
battlefield C3 system; a U.S. Army Battery Computer System 
for pinpointing artillery fire; the B-52 radar update; a U.S. 
Navy surface surveillance radar; minicomputers and periph
erals hardened up for militarized environments? ? YES
Do you want to join a company that is backed up by United 
Technologies research effort of better than $2,000,000 per 
day? DYES
If you answered yes, you definitely owe it to yourself to 
arrange, through your Placement Office, to meet with one of 
our representatives while they are on campus on the above 
date. If you are unable to see us that day, write to Manager, 
College Recruitment, Norden Systems, Inc., 326 Norden 
Place, P.O. Box 5300, Norwalk, CT 06856.
UNITEDTECHNOLOGIESNORDENSYSTEMS
An equal opportunity employer
Phonathon begins to raise money from CMU alumni

Womens
Health

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanJanuary 18, 1983
Special Report
What will CMU do with more computers?
This is the first in a series of articles on the 
uses of computers on campus now and in 
the next few years. We asked representatives 
of each department what students and 
faculty are doing with computers now and 
what changes they will be making to accom
odate the personal computers.
Civil Engineering
Historically, weve been computer 
hungry. We have wanted to do more than 
we have had computers for, said Assistant 
Professor Red Whittaker, about the role of 
computers in the Civil Engineering 
Department at Camegie-Mellon University. 
Both Assistant Professor Whittaker and 
Assistant Professor Dan Rehak, are involved 
in the integration of computers into the 
Civil Engineering Department.
According to Whittaker, Computers 
have been an integral part of Civil 
Engineering since computers could do 
anything. He said that Professor Steven 
Fenvis, director of design and research, and 
part of the CMU faculty since the 1950s, has 
headed the expansion of computing and 
molded its important role within the 
department. Also the department head 
Dwight Sangrey has been inclined to 
support this integration.
This role, today, is an irreplaceable one 
according to these professors. It is in the 
nature of the things we do that they cannot 
feasibly be done by hand, Rehak said. We 
have discovered a whole panorama of 
opportunities for artificial intelligence and 
robotics applications in Civil Engineering. 
I would predict development in these areas, 
he continued.
Development with computers and a
future with computers in Civil Engineering 
is a given with these two professors. The 
fulfillment of the installation of a new VAX 
750 system are almost complete, while a new 
terminal room in Porter Hall is now in use. 
Three new self-contained personal 
computers have been purchased by the 
department and according to Rehak, all of 
the equipment is used by everyone in the 
department.
There are classes for the students to 
develop real-time processors, personal 
computers which can interface to the main 
system or be manipulated individually.
Other classes, as well, help to strengthen 
the union between Civil Engineering and 
computing. According to Whittaker, 
Computer Methods in Civil Engineering, 
an elective course that the department 
stresses for seniors has always been a course 
of excellence and rigor. It introduces our 
Civil Engineering brand of computing. 
Methods of Computer Aided Design, 
another CE computer course, stresses the 
convenience of the computer for a civil 
engineers design activities. Our latest 
venture is a graduate course Robotics and 
Civil Engineering. That course is 
computation intensive, Whittaker said.
Besides the conventional courses, the 
department supports courses in 
independent study and it is common for 
students in these courses to utilize 
computing and computer run equipment.
Although there are Civil Engineering 
students who dont immerse themselves in 
computing, computer competence is 
generally expected of undergraduates. 
Whittaker said, We dont require that 
students have to be hackers to survive.
However, those who are involved with 
computers are intensely involved and they 
are a majority.
When it comes to entering the job market, 
A lot of recent undergraduates are involved 
in computing and some of our students have 
been recruited specifically for their 
computer ability, Whittaker said. The 
people with computer experience find the 
jobs, Rehak added.
Both men agreed that changes have all 
been for the good for computation in Civil 
Engineering. More power has been and will 
be added to the system and the kinds of 
computational services are getting better. 
Its good that were starting to get out of the 
campus computational system. We stand 
alone when the system is down, Whittaker 
said.
Chemical Engineering
Seven out of ten undergraduate chemical 
engineering classes used computers to help 
the course work, 20% use the SCRIBE pro
gram to write up lab reports, and 50% use the 
computer to solve technical engineering 
problems.
About 95% of the graduate students have 
computer accounts to assist them with 
research. Computer aided design (CAD) is 
also available in the department.
All faculty and staff have their own termi
nals and accounts. The CMU-IBM contract 
and its resultant benefits would be helpful to 
the department.
This article was researched and written by 
Peter Bain, Lesley Brunker, Kathleen Drayenovich, Margaret Eissler, Tina Ellerbee, 
Laura Golowich, and Nancy Ritchey.
Nuclear Science
The nuclear science department at CMU 
has no plans to integrate personal 
computers into their curriculum. According 
to department head John Osterle, this issue 
is not relevant to Nuclear Science because it 
is a graduate program and thus the students 
are mainly part-time.
Physics
Members of the Physics Department have 
been using computers for several years, but 
their present focus is on developing 
microprocessors to automate experiments in 
the Physics labs. According to Department 
Head Raymond Sorenson, such hardware is 
now cheaper, and more available. By using 
microprocessors, he said, students will leam 
to use computers as they are used in science 
and technology.
Recently, said Sorenson, Professor Mike 
Levine of the Physics Department succeeded 
in automating the Modem Physics lab 
which is given to juniors and seniors. He 
developed a circuit board containing chips 
which aids in measuring the lifetime of mu 
meson from cosmic rays. This spring, one 
Modem Physics lab will use this device.
For the past several years, according to 
Sorenson, there have been two Applied 
Physics majors which have involved the use 
of computers. The Computational Physics 
major requires software or programming 
skills, while the Physics and Scientific 
Instrumentation major emphasizes 
knowledge of hardware.
According to Sorenson, all of the faculty 
members use computers to do their research. 
In particle Physics experiments where there 
continued on page 9
AB Coffeehouse Presents:BLOTTO
and 
The Other Half
Tickets on sale:
Friday, January 21, 
1983 
8 PM 
Skibo Ballroom
Tuesday, 
18, 1983 
Skibo 
Desk
January 
10 AM
Information 
$2 with CMU
funded by Attiviti feeID/ $3 without

---------------------------------------------------

January 18, 1983The TartanPage 9
ew ITC building due 
for next September
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Students returning next August will see a 
new building on campus. Construction of 
the Information Technology Center, called 
the ITC building, will start some time this 
month, with its completion date set for 
September.
The ITC building is a result of 
overcrowding in Wean Hall and of the joint 
venture contract between IBM and CMU. 
The IBM contract stipulated that CMU 
provide space for the IBM staff and 
information technicians to work. 
Originally the Coal Research Building was 
to house the staff of 33 persons. However, 
the cost of renovation became too great, and 
last October it was decided to construct a 
new building. The ITC building will 
accommodate the Computation Center, the 
administrative systems department, and the 
IBM project personnel. The Computer 
Science department and robotics will 
remain in Wean Hall, as well as the fifth 
floor terminal room.
Before Christmas vacation, demoliuon of 
the Coal Research Building took place. The 
ITC building will cover the former site of 
the Coal Research Building and the parking 
lots behind and next to Warner Hall. It will 
be connected to Warner Hall through the 
basement The building will consist of two 
basement levels, a ground floor, and two 
stories above ground.
The new building will mean that the 
long trek to Wean Hall will no longer be 
necessary for students residing in 
Morewood, Mudge, and the fraternities.
Departments talk about computers
continued from page 8
may be 1000 events per second, computers 
are needed to collect information at a high 
rate. The data is put onto magnetic tapes, 
and then re-entered into the computer for 
analysis.
Biology
The Biology Departments use of 
computers is presendy centered on research. 
According to Department Head Chien Ho, 
quantitative tasks in biology ranging from 
cell counts to DNA sequencing are 
becoming much more efficient with the use 
of the computer. Members of the faculty 
have been using their own personal 
computers in this way for several years.
The department hopes to expand the use 
of computers beyond faculty and graduate
level courses. For this reason, said Ho, they 
plan to appoint a computer expert in the 
field of biological research from Columbia 
University. They expect that this move will 
aid in familiarizing students with the use of 
the computer in the quantitative aspects of 
research.
On the issue of the personal computers to 
be required by all students, Ho believes that 
the computers will be just like a 
telephone, becoming another positive 
aspect of student-faculty communication.
Chemistry
According to Anton J. Streiff, the Admi
nistrative Officer of the Chemistry Depart
ment, the CMU-IBM contract will not 
change the curriculum overnight.
In the near future, there is a possibility of
using computers to treat data obtained in 
the laboratory. The department is carefully 
considering the use of computers in its 
courses; Streiff emphasized this very heavily. 
They are currently using the computers in a 
limited sense for graphing experimental 
data.
SU PA
The School of Urban and Public Affairs is 
readying itself for the changes the coming 
developments in computing will bring to 
public management.
Graduates will be leading-edge practi
tioners, in the words of Dean John Berry. 
The CMU-IBM contract for a distributed 
processing system is anticipated to give the 
university leadership in this latest generacontinued on page 10
Both Fred Rogers, vice president for 
business affairs, and Doug Van Houweling, 
vice provost for computing and planning, 
hope to have construction finished by July, 
in order that the Computation Center can be 
moved in by September.
The cost of the ITC building is estimated 
to start at six million dollars. Both the 
architectural firm and the construction 
company are Pittsburgh based and employ 
many CMU architectural graduates.
Van Houweling was enthusiastic about 
the new building. We will have more space 
for students and faculty, and the staff can 
work more effectively, he said.Demolition of the Coal Reasearch Building was completed this month to make way for the 
Information Technology Center.
GENERAL INFORMATION
DISPLAY ADS
Display ads are $4.50 per column inch, minimum order 2 column 
inches. Special rates are available. There is a late submission 
charge.
oIWNSUPIC qLIcNW8 IaynI ELSUBWAUyP WA kC22 t))
CLASSIFIED ADS
Classifieds are $2.00 for I -20 words, $4.00 for 20-50 words, $8.00 for more 
than 50 yvords.
oIWNSUPIC 1INPIcNW8 IaynI ELSUBWAUyP WA kC22 t))
ANNOUNCEMENTS & EVENTS
oIWNSUPIC 1INPIcNW8 IaynI ELSUBWAUyP WA kC22 t))
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
oIWNSUPIC 5nUNW8 IaynI ELSUBWAUyP WA kC22 t))
For Further information, contact Business Manager
Address: Box 17 Schenley Park/Skibo 50 & 52 
t(yPIC k4MjwJJ g
wl (yLn WPc-InUPp sWB(UPIC k4MjwJJr
The Dutch lyric-virtuoso baritone, Max van Egmond, has joined with the American ensemble, Capriccio, to present a delightfully varied program for voice, flute and harpsichord.Friday, January 21 8.30 v.m
Synod Hall Oakland adjacent to 
St Paul's Cathedral on Craig Street 
Tickets are $8.00; for student admission - $5.00.
phone: R & B Society of PGH
(412) 731-3944 or 371-2671.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanJanuary 18, 1983
Computer graphics will benefit CFA students
ByPAUPLIN anys EWpI x
tion of computation systems. SUPA is pre
paring to take full advantage of the resulting 
capabilities.
Part of the schools involvement in the 
process took place last year when the type of 
computing wanted was being discussed. To 
aid in formulating principles for the pro
gress and use of these resources in the future, 
the Task Force on the Future of Computing 
was established. The group was a worth
while activity according to Berry, who 
served as SUPAs delegate. It looked 
broadly at the issues. It showed that needs of 
the faculty varied widely, ranging from 
word processing to database management to 
graphics capability.
Academic requirements for the masters 
degree provides experience with the lan
guages FORTRAN and PASCAL, text edit
ing, and common packages such as SPSS, 
BMDI and IFPS. Related subjects also 
covered are quantitative methods and opera
tions research, each of which is an integral 
part of the program.
The physical facilities are extensive. Currendy, all faculty members have terminals as 
do the majority of researchers and staff peo
ple. Each classroom is wired, and to provide 
easy access to CMCCTE (formerly TOPSE), SUPA has eighty ports on the system. 
Additions planned include a masters room 
with half of the terminals having graphics 
quality displays and a separate doctoral
Famous Rider sponsors contest
The Fine Line Cultural Center, located at 
3300 Fifth Avenue in Oakland, has been 
renamed The Famous Rider.
To launch its rebirth, the cultural center 
is sponsoring a logo design contest with an 
award of $100 in prize money to be given to 
that artist who can conceive and reproduce a 
new logo for the center. The Famous Rider 
will continue to house various theatre 
companies and poetry readings and will add 
acting, make-up, and poetry workshops as 
well as live childrens puppet theatre and
possibly coffee house presentations several 
nights a week.
The specifications for the logo design 
contest are that artwork will be no larger
than 11x17 inches and will be submitted in 
black and white copy ready for reproduction
on stationery, t-shirts, and possibly used for 
a new sign for the building. All entries must
be submitted to The Famous Rider, 3306 
Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213 by 
January 31, 1983.
computer room.
On the horizon is urban affairs gaming - 
computer simulations similar to the man
agement games employed at GSIA. Doug 
Van Houweling, vice-provost for comput
ing and planning, is an adjunct professor at 
the school. While at Cornell University, Van 
Houweling worked on urban affairs gam
ing and will be pursuing similar projects for 
SUPA.
This combination of expertise, study, and 
equipment should serve the school well.
computing is being carefully implemented 
in SUPA and by all accounts it is and will 
remain one of the schools major strengths.
Art and Architecture
When the idea of personal computers 
bowled through CMU, the general concen
sus was most people could benefit from 
them except students in CFA. However, 
according to the heads of the art and archi
tecture departments, this is not the case. In 
fact, computers could turn out to be an 
immeasurable student aid.
Orville Winsand of the art department 
sees the greatest benefits coming from the 
area of computer graphics. This would 
allow the student extensive exposure and
exercise in the areas of color theory, surface 
simuladon, and pattern generation.
Wfeie looking for people 
who dont think straight.
If youve always looked for whats 
around the comer rather than what is 
straight ahead, consider a career with 
Linkabit.
Linkabit didnt get to where it is 
today by way of tunnel vision. Were a 
leader in the design, development and 
manufacture of satellite and terrestrial 
communications equipment, specializing 
in local communication networks, 
encryption, forward error correction and 
high speed modulation. Our people are 
very creative, free thinking individuals 
who look beyond obvious solutions to 
find advanced, innovative ways to meet 
the demanding needs of this industry.
To help keep new ideas flowing, 
weve made sure that all career paths 
are flexible. Our engineers, for instance, 
are assigned to projects depending on 
their interests and abilities. As one 
assignment is completed, new 
opportunities are made available in a 
variety of areas.
Because our projects are very diverse 
and complex, we utilize the most 
advanced equipment available. And our 
staff is comprised of professionals
with a wide range of expertise.
Our company is expanding rapidly, 
and were constantly looking for 
talented people interested in 
communications systems, digital 
hardware or software engineering. We 
have positions available in San Diego, 
Boston and Washington, D.C.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS: MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7.
Please contact your College 
Placement Officer to arrange an 
interview appointment. If you are 
unable to meet with our 
representatives, please forward your 
resume with college transcripts to: 
Dennis Vincent, M/A-COM 
LINKABIT, 3033 Science Park Road, 
San Diego, CA 92121.A.K
Rh 3e TgVh.gq, g3)
Equal Opportunity 
Affirmative Action Employer
Another benefit Winsand anticipates is an 
enhancement of the teaching of art history, 
Instead of showing students particular slides 
for a limited time in class, the slides would 
be placed on the computer, giving the stu
dents greater access to them.
Eventually, he hopes, the enure CMU 
slide collection will be on line, and he would 
be able to call up each slide as he needs it 
during lecture, and to show them in a partic
ular arrangement (i.e. one alone, two side by 
side).
One of the most important points to be 
stressed, he continued, is the computer will 
not take the place of the human in creating 
works of art, but will be a valuable tool to 
the artist by allowing him to experiment 
with different configurations and color 
combinations. Computers can do only what 
someone tells them to do  they cannot 
replace the creative spirit.
Mr. Omer Akin also believes computers 
can help his branch of CFA, the architechure department. In fact, he forsees compu
ters becoming an important part of 
architecture in general.
Because students in this department are 
not accustomed to the idea of designing 
structures of a screen, care is being taken to 
ease computers into the curriculum. All stu
dents must take an Intro to Computing 
course, as well as a course called Computer 
Modeling that deals with the representa
tion of objects.
These are the first steps being taken 
toward Mr Akins ultimate goal - the archi
tect would sit down at the terminal and 
follow his ideas through from conception to 
conclusion on the computer. This would 
allow him great freedom to experiment, and 
save time and effort when making changes.
His greatest fear, however, is that expecta
tions will exceed possibilities as this field is
just opening up, it will take a while - per
haps five to ten years - for the software to
catch up to the architect. Next week, we will 
look at the potential use of computers in the 
departments erf design, music, and drama.
Tax exemptions
All students, faculty, and staff who are 
claiming exemption from federal income 
taxes must refile by February 15 in order to 
continue this status.
After February 15, those who have not 
filled out a new W-4 form for 1983 will 
automatically have their status changed to 
single or zero exemption, and federal taxes 
will then be taken out of their paychecks.
A person may claim exemption from 
withholding federal income taxes if he did 
not pay any federal income tax the previous 
year and if he does not expect to pay any this 
year.
After February 15, one can still claim 
exemption from the tax for the rest of 1983 
by filing another W-4.
Forms W-4 are available from the Payroll 
Department, Warner Hall, room 305, from 
8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Allegheny Women's Center
tn out patent medial thmc otiering
 abortion counseling  free pregnancy tests
 personal counseling  birth control services
* gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing CenterMl S. Craig Street (Oakland) Pittsburgh. PA 15213
(412) 687-TEST
Center
Mcdkjl Cwln tlRighi (ti Hoo*l
Iti Sort* whlidd Strrr<
PMtoWffc. r* ISMk

---------------------------------------------------

Hello'
HEH
By DAN TOBIASTartan Staffurriter
(Note: There is no ridiculous 
introduction to my column this week due to 
the strike of Local 666 of the American 
Ridiculous Introduction Writers Union. As 
soon as this is setded, the introductions will 
return.)
30 YEARS AGO: Jan. 13, 1953 
This year, as different from any in the 
past, every Thisde subscriber will get
complete coverage of his school year. No 
longer will you open the book and find the 
previous years Spring Carnival pictures; 
instead you will see that Spring Carnival at 
which you were present, youll see the 
spring sports and events in which you 
participated or witnessed and last but not 
least the senior will view his own 
commencement with its gala activity. 
Theres something wrong with the Math 
department. . . Im under the impression
that the math instructor regards his 
classroom activities as an unfortunate 
determent in the pursuit of his own 
scholastic endeavors. . . Ive become all too 
familiar with such examples of the 
shopworn expression as, If you fellows 
dont get this, its all your fault, I know 
how to explain it. . . (nervous chuckle). . . 
but not in terms that you Sophomores could 
comprehend, (believe it or not), Theres not 
much in this chapter, etc., add nauseam...Comp Center offers help with LOGIN
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwriter 
There is hope for this semesters new and 
confused computer students: the LOGIN 
fair, to be held this Tuesday and Wednesday, 
January 18, and 19. From 7 to 9 p.m. anyone 
needing help with logging in to their computer accounts can meet with members of 
the Computation Center staff in the Wean 
Hall Public Terminal Area.
Sherry Johnson, one of six user consul
tants at the Computation Center, returned 
with the idea last fall, after attending a con
ference at Syracuse University. She wanted
to try this concept of teaching computers at 
CMU, to make computers a more human 
experience.
Johnson urges students to come to the 
LOGIN fair, as it is the only time help will 
be available solely for the purpose erf help
ing students with logging in.
Port Group? topsd 
Go
Camegie-Mellon University Tops-D on mode CMC.CTD 
@VVhat do I do?
?U nrecognized command Does not match switch or ke\word
@HELP ME PLEASE
?Invalid HELP request. irv "HELPlret]"
@Hello
?Unrecognized command Does not match switch or keyword 
@\Vhat does match?
?Unrecognized command Does not match switch or keyword 
@Youll be som
?lnrecognized command Does not match switch or keyword 
@Do you recognize kill?
?l nrecognized command Does not match switch oi keyword 
@HEH HEH HEH
?Unrecognized command Does not match switch or keyword 
@Logout
Killed job 13. tty 13. Fridav 13, High noon
The Plan was evidendy conceived by a 
few scrimping Scots who attempted (and 
succeeded) to cut down work within the 
clan. The math instructor knows no 
answers to assigned problems. Only after he 
has worked them out in class has he any idea 
of a solution. To a student with an answer, 
merely wishing to check it, this is a complete 
waste of time. . . .
Were requested to keep track of a 
sixteen-bit pile of pulp, our text, that 
because of its complete lack of attractiveness, 
its creators have failed to provide with a 
binding. The chances erf selling it on 
another campus are negligible. Actually, it 
is a cold, disheartening reference tone 
depending upon classroom instruction that 
never materializes. I suggest that its really 
suitable only for mashing and converting 
into plasma containers. (From a letter to 
the editor by Kenneth Luther, M. E. 55, 
printed on the front page erf the Tartan.)
40 YEARS AGO: Jan. 19, 1943
We, the student body, have failed to hold 
up our end of the war effort, for looking 
back at 42, we can find little to point to with 
pride. The writer suggests that 10 or 20 cent 
war stamps be attached to every admission 
ticket to dances and other events, and that a 
few pounds of rubber or scrap metal be 
accepted as part of the admission price. Also, 
it is suggested that a War Activities 
Council be organized, as the Student 
Council had been a failure in organizing 
war-effort-related activities.
In our advertising, we ask the public to 
make no unnecessary telephone calls - 
especially long distance calls to centers of 
war activity  and to keep all calls as brief as 
possible, Here are the reasons for this 
request: 1. War is crowding telephone lines 
with a tremendous volume of calls. 2. We 
cannot obtain materials to expand our 
facilities because copper, aluminum, nickel, 
steel, tin and rubber are needed for fighting 
equipment. (Advertisement for the Bell 
Telephone Company erf Pennsylvania.) 
That sort of ad seems to be the direct 
opposite of todays Reach Out and Touch 
Someone ads, which seem to encourage 
people to make calls formerly considered 
unnecessary. Times have changed.
Features.
* %
"Movement Extravaganza" high-kicks back to CMU
Tobias fondly^ continues reminiscing
Math Dept berated in '53; student body criticizes itself
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Associate Features Editor
These people all have two feet and do just 
about everything but fly. In fact, the 
members of the Movement Extravaganza 
of the Martial Arts demonstrate their high 
kicks and self-defense techniques with such 
apparent ease and grace that they do indeed 
appear to be flying.
The group, founded in 1979 by former 
Pitt football player and multiple martial 
arts award winner Curtis Smith, performed 
last year at CMU to a standing-room-only 
crowd in the Ballroom. Tomorrow at 8 the 
team will offer a belated encore performance 
in the same place, featuring performances 
by CMU student and South Korean native 
Andy Hahn, who, along with Bob Opalsky, 
instructs the CMU Martial Arts Club.
Also included in the show, according to 
Hahn, are choreographed fighting scenes, 
womens self-defense techniques in street 
situations, multiple attacks showing differ
ent fighting styles, use of weaponry, and 
performances by senior citizens and 
children.
The group is booked to perform at the 
Playboy Hotel in Adantic City in late 1983; 
the show at the Ballroom tomorrow may be 
one of the last in such an intimate arena. Be 
there at 8. Aloha.
Andy Hahn of the Movement Extravaganza of the Martial Arts (shown leaping in front of The Point) will be among the performers 
displaying innovative martial arts techniques in the Ballroom tomorrow at 8 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanJanuary 18, 1983
Paperback: $8.95; 213 pages.
DOSSIER Staff Meeting
Anyone interested in working for Dossier, a 
campus literary magazine, should attend our staff 
meeting:
TONIGHT, 8:00 PMsanto so
(TARTAN OFFICE)
Two new books list summer jobs and internships
1983 Internships lists 16,000 temporary 
positions located throughout the U.S. and 
include jobs in technical, professional, and 
service occupations which are grouped by 
profession and indexed geographically to 
help locate jobs in specific areas. Each 
listing details duties of the position, training 
offered, qualifications, college credit 
availability, length and season of the 
internship, pay and fringe benefits, housing
The authors, who felt that writing a book beat looking for jobs at a bank, decided to write a comprehensive, insiders guide to Florida after noticing the absence of any really helpful 
pamphlet or book on getting around down there. The book is quite thorough: practical tips on transportation, what to bring, and money are balanced by suggestions for getting lucky 
and eating raw oysters. If you want to forget Pittsburgh by going to Florida this March, take a look at Rites of Spring.
Its freezing outside but nows the time to 
get cracking on a summer job, expedally if 
you desire something with applicable onthe-job experience. Two books published by 
Writers Digest Books might help you in 
your quest for employment:
1983 Summer Employment Directory of 
the U.S. lists 50,000 summer jobs 
throughout tvhe country with brief
descriptions of the place of work, the 
numberof jobs available, working 
conditions, hours, salary, college credit 
availability, names and addreses of contacts, 
and the duration of the job. Also included 
are articles on preparing effective 
applications, resumes, and cover letters, 
along with advice from employers.
availability, and application contacts, 
procedures, and deadlines.
Paperback: $10.95; 336 pages.
Both books are available at the CMU 
Bookstore; or add $1.50 to appropriate cost 
and send to: Writers Digest Books; 9933 
Alliance Rd.; Cincinnati, OH 45242. Or 
call toll free 1-800-543-4644 (outside Ohio) 
for credit card orders.
If youre already thinking about Spring Break (the week of March 20), you might want to read The Rites of Spring: A Students Guide to Spring Break in Florida. The book, written by 
college students Bruce Johnson and Rollin Riggs, will help you plan a vacation to suit your needs. Claiming that there is a Florida for everyone, the authors present information on 
everything from bars to cops in Jacksonville, St Augustine, Daytona Beach, Ft Lauderdale, Miami, Key West, Ft. Myers, Sanibel and Captiva, Tampa/ St. Petersbuig/Clearwater, 
Orlando, Panama City, Ft Walton/ Destin, and Pensacola.
. .. * 
photos courtesy of Rollin
Our first deadline will be the end of February, so 
we will need all the help we can get.

---------------------------------------------------

Marcia Faragher 
Engineer
I have increased my read
ing speed from 227 words 
per minute to 1,064 words 
per minute with increased 
comprehension. Because of 
my increased reading speed 
and comprehension, I can go 
through the daily mail, 
newspapers and other read
ing materials much more 
rapidly.
John Futch, 
Law Student
With 60 briefs a week 
the average student 
takes ali week to pre
pare for class. In an 
evening. I'm finished."
Chris Hanburger, 
Professional 
Athlete .
Reading dynamically is 
as challenging and 
stimulating as reading 
an offense. It is a tre
mendous technique for 
gaining understanding 
on my tight schedule.'
William Proxmire 
U.S. Senator
The single most dif
ficult problem for a 
senator is to be in
formed in all kinds of 
ways. And I find that 
this course has just 
helped me enormously 
. . . it's meant that I can 
read a great deal more 
material
All it takes is one free lesson and you can zip through your reading a lot faster. In fact you can cut your reading 
time almost in half! Hard to believe? Put us to the test. Come and discover the secrets to easy speed reading, 
better concentration, greater comprehension. These copyrighted techniques are taught in over 300 cities 
throughout the U.S. No gimmicks. No obligation. Its easy. Its fun. It works.
Get it while it's still free!
---------SCHEDULE OF FREE MINI-LESSONS------------
January 18, 1983The TartanPage 13
SARC sponsors program of career seminars
/nform-A-Sessions" feature pane/ discussion on careers
MM
By ANNE-MERLE BRYANT
Tartan Staffwriter
Whether a sophomore, semor or grad, a 
students anticipation of entering the career 
world typically involves questions which 
alWays cannot be answered in lecture, text or
studio. Questions arise such as how on-thejob assignments relate to problem-solving 
in class, or how to find out more about the 
daily routine of a specific job.
Next week, students will have an oppor
tunity to examine issues involved in the 
transition from student to professional dur
ing the first in a series of career seminars,
Inform-a-Sessions, sponsored by SARC. 
The councils Career Development Com
mittee has initiated this program of semin
ars, featuring alumni from the Pittsburgh 
business community, to benefit both stu
dents and alumni through a first-hand 
exchange of ideas.
The first Inform-a-Session will be a panel 
discussion: From Here To There: CMUs 
Role in Your Professional Choice. The 
entire campus community is invited to 
attend next Tuesday, January 25, at 6:30 
p.m. in Skibos Highlander Room.
Panelists will be Barry Famol (52), presi
dent of Famol Advertising; Jack Mahony,
owner of Photo Associates; and Robert 
Bowden (54), freelance designer/graphic 
artist. Delore se Ambrose, assistant dean of 
SUPA, will moderate the discussion. Ms. 
Ambrose is well-renowned on college cam
puses and in the business community for 
her thought-provoking Communications 
Workshop.
Future seminar topics also will be of gen
eral interest to all professional disciplines on 
both undergraduate and graduate levels. 
SARC welcomes student input.
As the seminar program grows, SARC 
plans to establish a bank of area alumni 
who will participate in Inform-a-Sessions,
hold information-interviews about specific 
positions, and possibly provide summer 
employment for interested students.
Please send me ( ) free 
HEALTH STYLE self-test (s)
Name_________________
Address
City_________________:______
State___________________Zip.
Mail to: HEALTHSTYLE, Box 47 
Washington, D.C. 20044
heMwl|jlet>
BELLE FIELD BUILDING
TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
FRIDAY
SATURDAY
THE INSTITUTEOAKLAND 
JANUARY 18 
-JANUARY 19 
-JANUARY 20 
JANUARY 21 
-JANUARY 22
160 NORTH CRAIG STREET 
4 PM AND 7 PM 
4 PM AND 7 PM 
4 PM AND 7 PM 
4 PM AND 7 PM 
4 PM AND 7 PM
MONDA Y JANUARY 24 4 PM AND 7 PM
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS
1 block towards downtown from Morewood and Forbes - right 1V* blocks.
Call 681-6770 for additional directions.
Increase your reading 
speed as much as 100%!
Chris Walsh,
Engineering
Its really boring to read the way 
most people are taught. This way, 
you look at a page of printyou 
see the whole page. Its great!

---------------------------------------------------

JOE FRESHMANBy MARK LEVINE
(HO* ARC v^\r 
-)/ 
viovai \ / was w* \ y# ;
ByP \l AyUyLINEW / \r u
YooR |V_______>  '
\jA,cAT|ONjTj l7/^Towlr
-,_________V'K ( YCMfV \jAC*T|oW
By JAY SELETZ t
PLEAJTYi 
ROLL OVER 
LEX
PRETTY GOOD 
HUH? r
gjByS Btuarrr 
EdidoC hjge nVA/ A/OT DAD! 
WHAT EL5"E 
 CAAI HE DO?
CLUBS!
GROUP SHOTS for all clubs 
for the yearbook will be taken Jan. 18th-20th
RING: *A few candid shots of your club and its activits. 
vBtt members ready to be photographed.
*A typed club roster.
*A short paragraph describing your club's function 
and any interesting or humorous events which have 
have occurred this year.
CARTOONS

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
V monitors 
urt "Story'
Ky GREGG BGSSLER
fartan Contributing Editor
I How I Got That Story, the City Theatre 
Companys present show, is a good producon yet remains hampered by complicaions forced upon it by its director Jed 
I Harris.
.dp The show, written by Obie
I JT->' Award winner Amlin Gray, fol
lows the adventures of a naive 
I ournalist, from Dubuque, Iowa, as he tries 
I o find out about the world by covering the 
Ivar in Am-Bo Land, a Vietnam-like 
lountry.
I The play is written to use a simplicity of 
Production to get across a complicated meslage. This simplicity in the CTC produclion is confused mainly by the use of 
Idevision monitors suspended from center
I During the show, the tides of the vignettes How I Got That Story involves complex characters in a complicated plot. The play is at the City Theatre Company now.
lire typed on the screen. Although interest
ing, it takes away focus from the stage where The costuming is representational and
ail concentration is needed if one is to appreintriguingly simple, but the halfwayiate the shows message. realistic set and furniture used add more
The monitors do take up the dead space complications. The actors have trouble
Between vignettes while the actors change moving the pieces of furniture, especially
flostume and move furniture, and before the during the hospital scene, resulting in
II how the Vietnamese war scenes flashed on noticeable dead air between the action,
fihe consoles did add a nice touch; however, The show is interesting because erf the
^|verall the tube is just as distracting in the excellent acting of John Hall (The Reporfeater as it is at home. ter) and Alexander Cook (The Historical
Opera overcomes weak lead
wide-eyed innocence well in the role. Hall 
comes to a climax in the last vignette, 
Home, but somehow lacks consistent and 
total commitment in the show as a whole.
How I Got That Story runs now through 
February 6, every Thursday through Sun
day, at 8 p.m. For information and reserva
tions call the City Theatre Company, 
Bouquet and Sennott in Oakland, at 624- 
6781.
Event).
As the Event, Cook portrays a wide range 
of characters, including the empress 
Madame Ing, the call girl Li, a sewer
mouthed general, and a litde boy among 
many others. He conquers them all with 
astounding deftness. His performance is an 
event itself.
Hall is a natural for the naivete' of the 
Reporter, using his boyish gleeful smile and
aust helps Pittsburgh Opera start season right
audiencess favoritism. Native Pittsburgher 
Marianna Christos, a soprano, played 
Fausts betrayed lover Marguerite with 
skillful confidence.
Charles Long, an ex-CMU student, was 
by far one of the most gifted of the Faust cast. 
As Valentine, Marguerites heroic but illfated brother, baritone Long brought to the 
Heinz Hall stage a powerful sense of 
youthful charisma necessary for a good 
portrayal of the fiery soldier.
Graduating from CMU with a masters in 
voice, mezzo-soprano Mimi Lemer (Siebel)
was another gem. Actually comical, her 
portrayal erf the adolescent, hopeful suitor 
quite amused the audience by its boyish 
innocence.
Other successes of the production were 
the set design and special effects, perfecdy 
conveying the drama of the satanic magic 
that surrounds the story. In addition, 
conductor Judith Somogi led the orchestra 
to attaining a comfortable, complementary 
interpretation of Gounods music.
Unlike Goethes original tragedy, the 
story of Faust was altered by French
By SUSAN PETRIE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
| The Pittsburgh Opera set off 1983 with
list weekends production of Faust. The
jgpounod opera, originating from the classic
German tale of the same name, proved to be
I ~-s% yet another achievement for the
I aty8 opera company, despite a
wJF'/y'i few setbacks.I -I  > Strong, good features erf Faust 
most definitely include the efforts of 
Jpounod. Being a French composer from the 
Romantic period, Charles Gounod clearly 
makes use of the moving, melodic style so 
equernly a trait of Romantic composers. 
Jnfortunately, tenor John Brecknock 
Faust) did not do justice to the lead; several 
limes during the Thursday night 
performance Brecknocks voice failed rather 
Iioticeably.
I Besides Brecknock, most of the leads were 
Jdequate to excellent in their roles. Bass 
jaritone Samuel Ramey, as the crafty 
14ephistopheles, captured his characters 
lynamic devilishness as well as the
librettists to concentrate on the love 
relationship erf Faust and Marguerite. 
Although this editing did litde harm to the 
operas overall presentation, the elimination 
of more transcendental, lofty meanings 
found in the unabridged Faust would 
disappoint those advocates of serious, 
traditional representations of literature.
Faust is one on the series of the fortyfourth year of the Pittsburgh Opera. The 
companys next project is Beethovens sole 
opera effort, Fidelio, to be performed at 
Heinz Hall on March 24 and 26.
Forbes shows disturbing imagery
paintings reveal many peoples tendency to 
wrap themselves in a cocoon of conformity 
and comfortably remove their individuality.
Elaine Tin Yos abundant objects and 
prints abound with their equal in ideas and 
mediums. Each work can be appreciated in 
more than one way. For example, the 
Catholic origin for her Madonna pieces is 
undenied. However, the calm and sparse 
landscapes with in the Madonna pictures 
can be contrasted with the birth pieces 
intimating an unpleasant  and antireligious  outcome for the pregnancy.
Most of the objects used by Tin Yo in her 
collaged objects are not mack by the artist, 
but are found objects and reproductions. 
Their historic and current meanings and 
functions combine to form personal, 
playful, and, sometimes startling 
expressions. For example, the small 
painting of a pear with two cup handles 
attached to its verticle sides, is tided A Pair 
for Julian. The work plays on the 
synonyms, pear and pair, and refers to a 
currendy celebrated artist, Julian Schnabels 
use of broken dishes in his paintings.
Another collaged object, made of a toy 
soldier attached by a red wire umbilical cord 
to a pressure gauge and existing inside a 
metal womb, expresses the militarys 
dependence on an unpredictable,
technological bomb. Tin Yos sense of 
humor and mystery allows her to express 
rather unsetding ideas in curious and 
eccentric ways.
John Currin makes visually strong 
paintings. He uses brilliant colors and 
incorporates bold, recognizable objects into 
his work. However, Currins images leave 
the viewer intellectually and emotionally 
uncomfortable. The disturbance is 
especially felt with his diptychs.
In Category Currin turned his copy of 
Claude Monets Lady with Sunshade 
upside down and put next to it a large and 
predominendy red painting of a wrecked 
car. In this forced relationship, both pictures 
seem to cancel their historic and emotional 
references. The rational theories of 
Impressionism are exposed as untrue 
against the black, almost too emotionally 
executed lines erf the reclining car body. The 
viewer is pushed away from his or her 
immediate aesthetic reactions and forced to 
contemplate the reality erf those prejudices. 
Currin succeeds in expressing the art 
worlds frustration with, and the too ready 
acceptance of, the oppressive weight erf 
cultural dogma.
The current show at Forbes Gallery is of 
the paintings and constructions by Brian 
Kaup, Michael Post, and Ben Smith
By SARAH RATCHYE
Special for the Tartan
Last weeks Forbes Gallery show of 
paintings, collaged objects, prints, and 
ceramics by John Currin, Elaine Tin Yo, 
and Carole Griffith reflect a new, exciting 
and often disturbing approach 
B^HRjto imagery.
Carole Griffiths paintings of 
3|j\Y|P\ ainteriors, patterned quilts and 
houses delight the viewer with a plethora of 
color and pattern. However, while busily 
celebrating color and the play of pattern 
over pattern and pattern near pattern, the 
paintings project an ominous, sinister air.
The obsession with pattern is almost 
overwhelming. The viewer is seduced, and 
then made uncomfortable with his or her 
vulnerability. A Dramatic Presentation 
contrasts the inside of a lavishly decorated 
theater with a mundane, sparse stage set. 
Both the glittering theater and the stage are 
fantastic worlds; places where one can 
escape from reality.
Griffiths obsession with pattern has 
pushed theatrical unreality in our everyday 
lives. Pattern has become a metaphor for the 
inescapable, deadening drone of repetition 
and predictability that rules our lives. The 
absence of figures in the works stresses the 
deadening effects of too much routine. The
photo by Gene Yonish y John Currin, this sketch was at s Gallery last week.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanJanuary 18, 1983
Tartan reviewer recaps musicai year of 1982
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Staffwriter
1982 was a rough, unpredictable year for 
music. There was a great influx of Canadian 
talent, an introduction of new stars through 
video music, and a general trend of 
established artists to experiment 
1 with new sounds and theories. 
Here are some highlights (and 
lowlights) of the year in music.
Least Deserving Failure: Cheap Trick, 
One on One. Only Ken Tucker of the 
Philadelphia Inquirer agrees with me on 
this one. Certainly the fans dont. By far the 
most intelligent, catchy and talent exposing 
album the group has produced, it is also the 
worst selling. Why? Most people overlook 
the albums key aspect  it is loaded with 
parodies of Beades songs.
Worst New Twist Bruce Springsteen, 
Nebraska. This could also be called the 
years most boring album. Its dragging, 
repetitive, and is certainly carried by The 
Bosss reputation, as it shows litde original 
talent
Most Successful New Twist Rush, 
"Signals. Featuring a reggae sound and 
what vocalist Geddy Lee calls a new guitar 
policy, this album shows the wealth of 
talent and versatility in Canadas top band. 
An impressive achievement, topped by a 
highly successful tour (still in progress). 
Listen for the song Losing it
Runner Up: Steve Miller, Abracadabra. 
Guitar talent Miller discards his out-of-date 
California Style and turns to pop. If this is 
your type of music, the album is a must
Worst New Heavy Metal: Girl School, 
Hit and Run. A British import we may as
well send back, postage due. The album 
features a tired guitar sound, less than run of 
the mill vocals, and pointless songs that 
attempt to imitate Van Halen. Forget it, 
girs.
Best New Heavy Metal: Iron Maiden, 
Number of the Beast. This British 
quintet, led by lead vocalist Bruce 
Dickenson, shows why Record Review 
Magazine has them pegged as a possible 
successor to Led Zepplins heavy metal 
crown. Features the hit single, Run to the 
Hills which, by the way, has a highly 
intelligent video version, and the title track 
(Number of the Beast) which is about  
lookout, Rev. Falwell  devil worship.
Worst Concession to Pop: Rainbow, 
Straight Between the Eyes. If it werent for 
the strong vocals of Joe Lynn Turner, this 
album would be an embarrassing waste of 
time. Richie Blackmore is consistent in his 
inimitable style, but the aura of the album 
leans far too close to pop to satisfy fans who 
were drawn by such hits as Man on the 
Silver Mountain, and All Night Long. 
The brightest spot is Miss Mistreated, 
which shows they still have it, its just in 
hibernation.
Best Novelty Song: Bob and Doug 
McKenzie, Take Off. A highly amusing 
offshoot erf the SCTV feature. Includes a 
special appearance by Geddy Lee, who also 
straight-mans a few jokes on the album, 
Great White North. The show Great 
White North was conceived as a spoof on 
the typical Canadian in response to a 
Canadian television ordinance requiring a 
certain amount of programming to be 
nationally oriented. The funniest part is,
doeeEU yNEeE unU hsIEUInpseEsI uLWpIpLsW LU SLlnrpWIWC anslEUWC eoWp
lpnsW8 IElNsplpnsWC ioiiEIEEUWC lLWIoeE lNnUnlIEUW nI B3.hcy,Ohw 
-Bc38 3EW (LpsEW8 tBT 3BOthc -B)h8 3nUpEs DEsIEU8 cqT khB,kB 
-B)h8 BoULUn8 P2T dBcyB D-B,d -Bc38 dnsIn DrnoW8 tcT (Bu-h -hB1 
.t--Bkh8 cpn5nUn 1n(W8 Pcy8 Dnsnan8
utyyd4,Ok2 u-B q2P,dh 
(Lsanm8 MnsonUm jJ8 xRVH 
jjj DUnI BSEsoE 
x7877 n8e8 - :b77 i8e8
IMMIGRATION AND CITIZENSHIP
LAW
PERSONAL INJURY CLAIMS
NO CHARGE FOR INITIAL 
CONSULTATION
Call Anytime: 281-4130 or 361-7911
ROBERT A. CREO 
GARY S. STEINER 
Attorneys at Law
Appointments Available in Downtown, 
Oakland , Squirrel Hill and Morningside 
locations days, evenings and Saturdays.
like, some people like, really talk like that 
eh?
Worst Novelty Song: Frank and Moon 
Zappa, "Valley Girl. This doesnt even 
deserve the classification of song. The outof-tune guitars and incessant chatter make it 
offensive to the ear and too grating on the 
nerves to evoke laughs. Its popularity is 
frightening: what is the record-buying 
public looking for? Certainly not quality.
Best Video: Peter Gabriel: Shock the 
Monkey. Fascinating and effective use of 
film to add a new dimension to the song  
enhances its meaning. While this is the 
theory behind video music, many groups 
seem to forget this.
Worst Video: Most of the others,
especially the Go Gos Vacation. This 
features a group of water skiers far too
Stray Cats bring 
back to life with
By BETH DOUGHERTY
Tartan Staffwriter
Rockabilly is a style erf music which 
combines the features of rock-n-roll with 
hillbilly type music. It was prevalent in the 
early 1950s when rock was just building the 
foundations for its vast invasion 
erf the music world. Rockabilly 
was a facet erf the rock industry 
which was able to capitalize on a 
fast-moving beat while maintaining the 
natural qualities of pure musicians.
Ironically enough, three current 
musicians, who were not even alive during 
the rockabilly era, have re-captured the 
magnetism of this once popular style. Brian 
Setzer, Jim Phantom, and Lee Rocker  
The Stray Cats  have moved their 
album Built for Speed up the charts, 
where it peaked at number two.
After a lack of response from American 
peers the group went to England, where 
they were a tremendous success. So inspired 
by this success, they decided to return to the 
U.S. and once again try to make it in the 
competitive American industry.
In a fast-moving concert at the Stanley 
Theater on December 8, the group gave the 
anxious crowd what they wanted. Rocking 
the crowd with well-known swing tunes off 
of their album, as well as slowing down the 
pace with a few mellow ballads  including 
a remake of an old Supremes hit (also done 
by Phil Collins), You Cant Hurry Love
 the group had the receptive fans on their 
feet the entire concert
Brian Setzer, the lead vocalist and 
extremely talented guitarist, provided many 
memorable moments while drummer Jim
skinny to be the band members and other 
meaningless scenes. Also, Rick Springfields 
Dont Talk to Strangers manages to 
distort the meaning of a seemingly clear cut 
song.
In general, though a smaller number of 
records were released, the overall quality was 
better as record companies began to watch 
their wallets. Look for more of the same in ^ 
1983, as well as an increase in popularity of 
video music. As more groups realize this is 
an area in which they must compete 
(especially with video juke boxes due in by 
summer), they will produce videos, and the 
influx will create an area of selectivity in 
video playing circles (i.e. MTV, Video 
Jukebox, etc.), and therefore increases the 
quality of video music in general. And 
finally, lex>k for (at last!!) a dissipation of 
Punk music, and a fading of New Wave.
rockabilly music 
fast beat
Phantoms personality and good looks 
caught the crowds cheers as he hit his bass 
drum, snare drum, and cymbal with 
authority. Lee Rocker  equally as 
dynamic  at times hoisted his stand-up 
bass (bull fiddle) into his arms and darted 
across stage.
Generally the concert seemed to leave the 
newly-acquired fans satisfied, an^ 
somewhat exhausted. Yet for those familiar 
with the not-so-popular earlier Stray Cats, 
the concert lacked originality. 
Unfortunately they seem to have acquired a 
pop style which detracted from the 
overall enjoyment of this performance. It 
will be interesting, though, to see what such 
an innovative trio will come ud with next.yNLUL5LLa ILiW lNnUIW
By DOUG GRAUEL
Tartan Staffwriter
1982 could perhaps be called the year of 
the synthesized drum. But in the midst of 
innovative, new sounds, George 
Thorogexxi and the Destroyers kept old 
V' soun(^s right UP toPBad to the 
Bone, the bands new album, is 
f R&B the way it was played 
fllP > twenty  years ago, but the 
Destroyers give old material new life in the; 
best album of its kind since Thorogoods 
last release.
Thorogexxi, of Wilmington, Delaware,
has his roots in Chuck Berry rock with lots
of blues influence. Earlier Destroyer albums
have had a tough, no-nonsense sound tljat 
ByPAUPLIN yP EWpI JM
The United Jewish Federation*
CAMPUS CAMPAIGN
Invites you to
Mon+e 0 
: Carlo
N i+e
Date: Jan. 22nd (Sat.)
Time: 9:00 p.m. - 1:00 a.m.
Place: 4th Floor, Jewish Community Center 
315 South Bellefield
Cost: $2.00 donation (includes 5 tickets)
Additional tickets 10 for $1.00.
United Jewish Federation is an agency *
AD proceeds wiD benefit 
Campus Campaign

---------------------------------------------------

January 18, 1983The TartanPage 17 
__________________
Courtroom drama justified in Paul Newman's "Verdict"
/
iy ERIC PATTERSON
jrton Staffwriter
The Verdict could best be described as the 
ocky of courtroom dramas.
Basically, it is the story of a down-and,,t drunken lawyer who gets one lastI
 chance to do something 
noteworthy, even applaudable.
That storyline makes The 
Verdict, though slow-moving at 
Imes, a very appealing movie. But what 
eallv makes The Verdict a special film are 
he performances rendered by the cast, 
specially by Paul Newman as the central 
igure, Frank Galvin.
Without a doubt, Newman would win a 
ong-awaited Oscar, if this were any other 
ear and an actor named Ben Kingsley 
wasnt his competition. To say the least, 
iewmans performance is extraordinary, 
e doesnt play Frank Galvin, he is Frank 
Calvin. Theres a fine difference there, one
that separates good from excellent. And 
nominees from winners.
Throughout his performance, Newman 
is able to convey Galvins motivations, his 
thoughts, his conviction, even as the world 
turns against'him, that things will go his 
way for once, and that justice will prevail. 
Galvin gradually believes in himself, and 
his ability to win what has suddenly become 
the most important case of his life.
The audiences first impression of Galvin 
is that of someone even worse than an 
ambulance chaser, if that seems possible. 
The only reason Galvin has even one case 
on his ledger is because a loyal friend pulled 
a few strings.
At first, Galvins choice of action for his 
case seems obvious. Hes got a solid case, so 
he can setde out of court for a hefty amount 
of money, and everyone could be happy, 
including him.
But somewhere along the line, Galvin
decides that he must take the case to court. 
He has a chance to do something important, 
to rise up against a legal system that tries to 
strike people down.
Galvin will have to fight an uphill battle. 
A key witness disappears. Galvin falls into 
the judges disfavor. And to top it all, the 
opposing lawyer is one of the best in the 
business. How Galvin copes even in the 
bleakest of times is one of the interesting 
aspects of his character, and of this movie.
James Mason turns in an outstanding 
performance as the opposing lawyer, 
providing an interesting foil to Newmans 
Galvin. Mason is a lawyer confident that his 
knowledge of our complex legal systems 
loopholes will bring him victory. Galvin 
firmly believes in people, the people in the 
jury, and believes that they are the ones that 
make the difference.
Jack Warden gives an expected solid 
performance as Galvins friend. It takes the
audience a while, though, to get used to his 
characters love for four-letter words. 
Charlotte Rampling gives an okay 
performance as Galvins love interest.
Sidney Lumet is a director who hasnt 
received the attention he deserves, even 
though hes directed films such as Failsafe 
and Dog Day Afternoon. He does another 
fine job with this film. His major strength is 
his ability to create realistic backdrops for 
his actors, and he does marvelous work with 
his Boston and New York City locales. And 
as demonstrated in this film, as well as the 
many others he has directed, he is a director 
who knows how to draw great performances 
from his cast.
It may take a litde patience on some 
viewers parts to sit through a two-hour 
movie, but right to its conclusion, The 
Verdict is a film well worth seeing, 
especially for viewing one of Paul 
Newmans most powerful performances.
04EWI 1UpEsaW0 AUEn oi 4oUI $ kLrapE nW /Err nW irLI
F *
ty SUSAN BOSSI
rartan Staffwriter
From time to time, someone may wonder 
vhat it would be like to marry his or her best 
riend. Well, unfortunately, Goldie Hawn 
nd Burt Reynolds explored this question in 
the film Best Friends.
In Best Friends, Hawn and 
Reynolds advance from 
Californian live-in lovers to as 
ir from a happily married couple that you 
an get in a two week timespan. During 
iese two weeks, Paula and Richard journey 
ck East to visit their respective parents  
aula is afraid that her folks will die before 
ichard has a chance to meet them.
At this point in time, Paula and Richard 
|re working on a screenplay that has to be 
ished before they return from their 
oneymoon. Although this addition to 
ie storyline attempts to add substance, it 
ils miserably.
In short, the journey home is tedious arid 
ould make anyone think twice before 
tting married or reaching old age. On the 
rsi stop, Paula and Richard are married by 
foreigner (who cannot pronounce the 
ows correcdy) in an establishment that 
Serializes in ceremonies lasting three 
linutes or less.
At this point the happy couple board a 
rain headed for Buffalo, New York (Paulas 
ometown). Once they arrive, the action 
rags as Paulas aging parents display 
oredom and senility in their finite 
xistence. The party ends when Paula and 
uchard are the only guests at her parents 
nniversary celebration. Paula is further 
isillusioned about her own marriage when 
ler father makes the toast, May you and 
ichard be as happy as your mother and I 
ave been . . .
From Buffalo, Paula and Richard travel 
& Virginia where Richards family resides 
n a condominium. The rooms are crowded 
video games, bamboo curtains and 
umerous snapshots taken by the 
hotographer of the family, dear old mom. 
very member of the family speaks with a 
lstlnct Southern accent except for the
f 
f
e 
I 
e 
s 
i 
p 
s
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call:
GodbGoyb
Downtown Pgh. 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Sutler County 282-1200
returning son  a little unrealistic.
In Richards mother, Paula sees a 
subservient housewife and mother, a role 
Paula would obviously rather not play. 
Once again, marriage is viewed as less than 
desirable.
This part of the journey ends when Paula 
falls into a dish of tuna salad and lands in a 
hospital ward for her misuse of valium 
Richard quickly comes to the rescue and 
rushes Paula home  definite trouble in 
paradise.
Meanwhile, back in California, their 
producer (clad in a jogging suit and a pair of 
Nikes) anxiously awaits the last few pages of 
his screenplay. He does not see them, 
however, until his pair of writers return, 
ByPAUPLIN yP EWpI JM
Field's "Kiss Me Goodbye" should be kissed goodbye
By JOE NARDONE
Tartan Staffwriter
The age-old adage  twos company, 
threes a crowd  takes on new meaning in 
a recent motion picture starring Sally Field, 
James Caan, and Jeff Bridges.
Kiss Me Goodbye is a 
romantic and loveable story 
about the return of a ghost of a 
v Broadway dancer named Jolly 
(James Caan). Jolly returns because he still
loves his wife (Sally Field) even though hes 
been dead for three years. Jolly, the ghost, 
suddenly appears because his former wife is 
about to marry an Egyptologist (Jeff 
Bridges). Of course standard ghostly 
humor is used but with a modem twist.
To complicate things James Caan can 
only be seen by the audience and his 
bereaved wife. This inevitably leads to gross 
misunderstandings which culminate in a 
weekend trip, throughout which Bridges
uses reverse psychology and pretends he too 
can see Sally Fields dead husband. The 
resulting humor is not sophisticated but by 
treating old comic routines with zest, 
laughter is easy to come by.
James Caan logs an excellent 
performance and adds more to the humor of 
the show than anyone else. Playing a 
Broadway dancer who met his untimely 
death by falling down a set of crowded stairs 
ByPAUPLIN yP EWpI JM
Our standard istechnical excellence. Our assignments are challenging.
If you haven't found the M |C company that satisfies your
I expectations let us help youM out Locate the last boundary
of achievement in the supermini industry, and there you'll find GOULD INC 
S E.L Computer Systems Division Our 
commitment to innovation has produced the 
most powerful minicomputer in the world today and has kept our professionals 
on the leading edge of progress.
Looking ahead has also meant our people have been moving ahead  at a 
career pace few other computer companies can hope to match We give our new 
graduates more technical responsibility at an earlier stage, encourage and 
support them in proving themselves, and respond to their success by advancing 
them to positions of greater technical challenge. Such acceleration is nurtured 
by our philosophy that broader involvement produces stronger professional 
capability. You can count on GOULD S.E.L to give you a large piece of the 
action "
Behind us are the resources of a Fortune 200 Corporation Ahead of us is the 
exciting potential of an aggressive leader in the computer marketplace. If you are 
an Electrical Engineering or Computer Science graduate, please schedule an 
appointment through the Placement Office so that we may discuss the career 
opportunities we have in sunny Ft. Lauderdale, Florida
If you are unable to interview with us at this time, forward your resume or a.letter
of inquiry to GOULO INC. S E L 
Computer Systems Division. 6901 W 
Sunrise Blvd . Ft. Lauderdale. FL 33313 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. M F H
> GOULD
Electronics & Electrical Products

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanJanuary 18, 1983
yNLUL5LLa pW nW EglpIps5 Ls sE/ nrAoe nW ps lLslEUIpLla
ByPAUPLIN anys EWpI J4
sometimes came across rough, but Bad to 
the Bone is bv far the most polished of the 
lot. Hank Carter's sax is a larger force in this 
than any other album by the Destroyers, and 
his relatively new addition gives their sound 
a welcome added touch. Carter 
complements Thorogoods sometimes 
bluesv, sometimes blistering leads with a 
sound that demonstrates an obviously 
outstanding feel for R&B sax.
Thorogood is notorious for a lack of 
original material. This album, however, has 
three originals, including the title track. The 
first song, ' Back to Wentzville, is also a 
Thorogood effort, and it starts the album off 
on the right foot. Fast and in parts very 
reminiscent of several Chuck Bern tunes, 
including Roll Over Beethoven, Back to
Wentzville is noticeably more wellrounded and complete than previous 
Thorogood originals. Blue Highway, a 
slower tune, is a nice chaser. Classic twangy 
slide guitar and smooth sax on top of strong 
rhythms with a heavy beat, it gets you rested 
up for the classic Nobody But Me. 
Strong vocals and a hard-driving beat are 
the backbone of this old favorite, which is 
nothing but the best of dance tunes. The 
next song, Its a Sin, is bluesy enough to 
make you cry, but Thorogoods smooth 
rendition keeps the tears back long enough 
to let New Boogie Children wind up the 
first side in lighter spirits. While this is by far 
the roughest song on the album and even at 
times sounds slightly awkward, 
Thorogoods enthusiasm gives an otherwise 
standard song new life.
HAPPENINGS AT HILLEL
Look for the following events taking place with the Bnai Brith Hillel 
Foundation:
TUESDAY, JANUARY 18:
An Israel information table will be in Skibo at 12 noon. Stop by and find about an 
Israel program for you.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 22:
United Jewish Appeal Monte Carlo Night. Fun and food sponsored by the 1983 
Campus Campaign for Israel and World Jewry. Jewish Community Center - 
Oakland, third floor. The event will begin at 9:00 p.m.
SUNDAY, JANUARY 23:
Pz Hillel Dinner forum featuring Isaiah Kuperstein speaking on Auschwitz. Free 
Deli dinner - 5:00 at the J.C.C.
MONDAY, JANUARY 24:
A planning meeting for anyone interested in forming a womens feminist group at 
the CMU Hillel House, 8:00 p.m., 133 Margaret Morrison Apartments. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4:
Shabbat Dinner, 5:30 p.m. in the Wherret Room. Reservations must be made by 
Friday, January 28.
To make reservations or to ask any questions, please call 621-8875.
Side two starts off with the title track. 
Extra heavy slide guitar rips through this 
song, accompanied by wailing sax, and 
makes for the strongest original song yet 
released by Thorogood. The overpowering 
energy with which Thorogood knocks out 
his live audiences almost leaps off the album 
for this number, while Jeff Simon (drums) 
and Billy Blough (bas) provide a solid beat 
for this song, which highlights the album.
Miss LuAnn is the third Thorogood 
original on the album, with a strong 
rhythm beat spiced up by leads that arent 
awe-inspiring but are smooth nonetheless. 
As anyone who saw the Destroyers stand-up 
show at the Stanley in November can attest, 
Thorogood has a love for his music that just 
wont quit. But unlike so many other, 
perhaps more acclaimed musicians, 
Thorogoods energy draws the listener into 
the music not only in concert but off the
I#
album as well. Miss LuAnn may not be 
the albums best song, but it shows heart.
The last song, Wanted Man, best 
demonstrates Thorogoods touch with 
acoustic guitar. A remake of a Bob Dylan 
song, Thorogoods version is extremely well 
sung and played. The harsh, gutsy vocals 
and rough guitar solos of Bad to the Bone 1 
give way to smooth vocals and guitar on the 1 
albums final track.
Bad to the Bone is perhaps the best release t* 
from George Thorogood and the''I 
Destroyers. The tough, hard-driving R&b J 
sound that is Thorogoods trademark has fl 
been improved on this album, and the H 
introduction of slower, bluesier songs helps ^ 
to round out the bands style. \u 
combination of inspiring originals and a 
traditional favorites, Bad to the Bone isg 
certainly one of the few new albums that is I 
really worth the price. 1
mmmm I.IcA 5nUIPNcH WNc WnI aLPPUInU
ByPAUPLIN anys EWpI J4
have a major breakthrough in their 
marriage, and become best friends once 
again.
The movie ends as Paula and Richard 
walk arm in arm into a phony sunset and no 
one really cares if they live happily ever after 
or not. Clearly, this is the perfect ending to a 
plot that was weak at best.
Ghostly Caan appears in "Kiss Me
ByPAUPLIN anys EWpI J7
at a party in his honor seems to fit Caan 
nicely.
Sally Field has a better than average 
performance and is aided by some rather 
revealing nightwear. Bridges plays the
Overall, the unpredictable humor offl 
Reynolds and the witty expressions off* 
Goldie Hawn were overshadowed by a poor? % 
script and the absence of effective n 
supporting performers. ||
Thus, Best Friends may be expected to If 
lose the attention of most movie-goers. After U 
all, the most comical scenes of the movie if 
appear in the coming attractions.
#/|

iistraight man for Caan and adds 1| 
dimension to the movie that Caan couldnM 
possibly achieve by himself. >
This movie, mind you, is not somethin! 
youll remember for years to come. Actually | 
its not even worth paying full price to see 
----------------------------------------------------------------------1
AB Lectures and AB Films Present
The Second Annual 
Martial Arts 
Extravaganza
featuring
Martial Arts Demonstrations 
 Game of Death  with Bruce Lee 
Martial Arts Demonstrations
Tomorrow night, Wednesday, Jan. 19
8 P.M.
Skibo Ballroom

Tickets Available at the Skibo Info Desk
$1 w/CMU ID 
$3.50 General Public
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

January 18, 1983The TartanPage 19
Are
Competitive?
4 LEUW InrW
The Activities Board Lectures and Special 
Brents Committee has finalized its lecture
 nes for the upcoming semester.
| Tomorrow night at 8 p.m. the Skibo 
Uroom will come alive with the sights 
d sounds of ABs Second Annual Martial 
ts Extravaganza. Instructors and their 
udents from the Oakland School of J erforming Arts will demonstrate various 
lchniques including facets from the arts of 
|ie-kwon-do, tai-chi, karate, jujitsu, kung 
I i, weaponry, and breaking. In conjunction 
lith AB Films, the movie Game of Death
I maturing Bruce Lee and Kareem-Abdul 
gabbar will follow the live performance.
S 8 Tickets for the extravaganza are $1 with
S \ 1MU ID, $2.50 for the general public and
I re available at the Skibo Information Desk.
On Monday, January 31, Frederic 
oraska will give a presentation on How 
Say No to a Rapist and Survive. In the 
st thirteen years, Storaska has presented 
if Bis rape prevention program to almost-a 
if jpiillion students at over 600 colleges and 
iversities throughout the country. In ^
ddition, more than 275 cases have been 
ported m which his program has frevented serious assault.
The authors of The Official MBA 
andbook, or How to Succeed in Business 
ithout a Harvard MBA will speak on 
ednesday, February 16. This serious yet 
tirical work has received national acclaim 
eluding several weeks on the New York 
imes bestseller list. If you are interested in 
ing the social graces needed to get 
head in the corporate jungle or inquisitive 
f the rules for successful business drinking,
Jy1 ^ris program is for you.
Vietnam War Stories, a lecture/film 
resentation on Wednesday, March 16, will 
ke you down into the trenches where the 
;ar was really fought. You will share the 
periences of Robert Muller, executive 
irector of the Vietnam Veterans of America 
Ind Vietnam veteran, and confront the 
oral and political questions the Vietnam 
ar has forced us to ask. The film Heroes, a 
ompelling 60 minute documentary film on 
e Vietnam War, Vietnam today and the 
.S. military involvement abroad, with 
omparitive film clips of fighting in El 
Salvador and Vietnam will be shown.
Other events planned include the return 
f the popular Roller Skating on the Cut, 
nd a performance by mime Marty Pollio. 
pThe CMU campus community is welcome
o all AB Lectures events.
Marcelle's Typing Service
Specializes in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
3WSS c) 1IcA r4J jr7k4 
:wl (yLn cIn0UBI$
10% discount with coupon
PREGNANT? Cali Car
Let's talk about your options.
HOTUNE: (412) 731-2420 
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706 
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. W; 11 a.m.-1 p.m. 
MTTFS
Free and confidential informa
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services.
hTqmfhqg/mv qe h.efqge 
g3
W PyPjEnyaUA ynpWPUFWAUyP
Did you major in EE, ChE, CS, Physics, 
Material Science, Metallurgy or 
Industrial Engineering?
We challenge you to see 
if you can answer YES 
to all of the questions below:
 Are you inquisitive and creative?
 Are you an exceptional person?
 Do you plan to be the best at what 
you do?
 Do you want your accomplishments 
and performance to be quickly rec
ognized?
 Would you enjoy a fast-paced 
environment?
 Would you enjoy having a 
direct line of communication to 
management?
If you can, you are the type of individual 
we seek! We are "the place" for excep
tionally talented persons. We hire only 
the best; and with one of the most out
standing in-house training programs in 
the industry, give you a head start in an 
entrepreneurial working atmosphere 
thats second to none, and one that will 
complement your abilities. Our Management-bydObjectives program won't allow 
you to get lost.
Youll find all the above at the Microelec
tronics Division of General Instrument, a 
Fortune 500 company that is one of the 
pioneers of MOS integrated circuit tech
nology. We are first in the production of 
Read-Only Memories; a leader in NonVolatile Memories technology; a volume 
supplier of 8-Bit Microcomputers; a 
recognized expert in Video Technology; 
a supplier of cost-effective Speech Syn
thesis devices and a major supplier to 
Telecommunications networks in 15 
countries. There are exciting and out
standing opportunities at both our 
Chandler, Arizona and Hicksville, Long 
Island, New York facilities.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
Monday, JANUARY 31
Check your Placement Office for details
Should you be unable to see us on that date, please 
send resume to: G. E. Hampden, General Instrument Corporation, 
600 W John Street, Hicksville. NY 11802 
An equal opportunity employer, m/f/h.
GENERAL INSTRUMENT
1I (ISE 8yL 
BysEIAI)
Ls UniEC AoWpsEWW8 .pEIsne

---------------------------------------------------

If yoirire looking for quality and innovation... check us out!
Who are we?
1IQnI W -ynSNj-UNI AIIs NINUBWAIN Ay ;LWSUA8 UP EIyESI, EySUBUIc, WPN 
EnyNLBAc) 1I60I EnypnIccIN anys W csWSS LcUPIcc ayLPNIN UP Jxrx 
8 A-y 8yLPp BySSIpI IPpUPIInc Ay W BysEWP8 ya 7l,222 EIyESI 
UPAInPWAUyPWSS8)
 1I NIcUpP WPN sWPLaWBALnI y0In l,k22 EnyNLBAc UP ayLn sWGyn 
BWAIpynUIcz BysELAInc, ISIBAnyPUB AIcA WPN sIWcLnIsIPA 
I;LUEsIPA, WPWS8AUBWS UPcAnLsIPAWAUyP WPN sINUBWS ISIBAnyPUB 
EnyNLBAc)
 oLnUPp A(I SWcA NIBWNI -I pnIWA WP WPPLWS nWAI ya synI A(WP 
w2u WB(UI0UPp W nWP9 ya JJ2A( yP A(I JxMw 5ynALPI k22, nWUcUPp 
1982 cWSIc Ay $4.25 USSUyP)
What opportunities do we offer?
 1I ISUI0I UP nIBnLUAUPp A(I 0In8 IcA BySSIpIjINLBWAIN AWSIPA -I 
BWP aUPN WPN Eny0UNUPp A(Is -UA( W -yn9UPp IP0UnyPsIPA -(UB( 
nI-WnNc UPNU0UNLWS ByPAnULAUyP) oLnUPp A(I PI?A NIBWNI, -I ESWP 
Ay (UnI WyLA JM,222 pnWNLWAUPp cALNIPAc)
 1I BLnnIPAS8 (W0I (LPNnINc ya EnyaIccUyPWS EycUAUyPc yaaInUPp 
UssINUWAI nIcEyPcUUSUA8 WA PLsInyLc, B(yUBI SyBWAUyPc WBnycc 
A(I i)v) UP A(I aySSy-UPp NUcBUESUPIcC
| ISIBAnUBWS, sIB(WPUBWS, B(IsUBWS, UPNLcAnUWS, cyaA-WnI 
NI0ISyEsIPA WPN BysELAIn IPpUPIInUPp)
| ISIBAnyPUB AIB(PySyp8
| E(8cUBc, B(IsUcAn8, sWAInUWS cBUIPBI
| AnIWcLn8, ByPAnySSInc(UERWBByLPAUPp WPN UPNLcAnUWS nISWAUyPc)
Were excited about our future... join us!
We'll be on campus to talk with you the week of:
JANUARY 25, 26, & 27
Check the placement office for details
We are an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.
Where performance is measured by results
WLZm HEWLETT 
mHHm PACKARD
7ka#Ai
7keVxfedtVeu/ QVr iwimn
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be?
5yn W anII EnIpPWPB8 AIcA WPN 
ByPaUNIPAUWS (ISE, Bc 
Birthright WA 7wJ jJxMM
!
fjA charismatic 
prayer 
every 
night at 8 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Beliefield Ave. 
(Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Oakland, Pa. 
call Rege for 
information: 262-3950.

---------------------------------------------------

_____________________ Sports.
treak stretches to 7 as hoopsters lose again
y DOUG REINSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Case Western Reserve Spartans 
vened their conference record Saturday by 
efeating the Camegie-Mellon Tartans 73-
i The Spartans pulled away in the closing 
8 minutes by outscoring the Tartans 10-2 in
one stretch.
The game started off slow as both teams 
sat in their 2-1-2 zones respectively. Case 
Western jumped off to an early lead about 5 
minutes into the game. CMU settled down 
into their offensive set and reeled off three 
baskets to jump to a 10-6 advantage. They 
managed to swing the ball around and work 
it in to Kevin Resnik and Carl Mulac down 
low.
CMU carried its 4 point lead through the 
middle of the first half when both teams 
tried unsuccessfully to press the other. The 
Tartans had a chance to go ahead by 6. Carl 
Mulacs drive was negated by an offensive 
foul.
With 4 minutes remaining in the half the 
Spartans cut the lead to one when Bill 
Vaughn connected on a short jumper. In the 
last 3 minutes, Mulac and game high scorer 
Greg Gabriel kept trading baskets with the 
Spartans. Gabriel hit a 20 foot jumper with
6 seconds remaining to give the Tartans a 
31-30 lead. However, Tom Liptark con-verted on a short jumper with 2 seconds left 
|to give the Spartans a 1 point half time lead. 
Both teams started out the second half in a 
lan to man defense. The Tartans and Sparms traded baskets up and down the floor 
md Case Western Reserve still led by 3. Two 
(inside baskets by Forward Kevin Resnik 
ive the Tartans a 1 point lead with 14:25 
Remaining. The two teams matched hoops 
md Gabriel's jumper knotted the score at 44.
Then came the turning point of the game, 
irl Mulac canned 2 free throws and a runling one hander by Gabriel gave the Tarins the momentum they needed. Following 
hat, a Gabriel steal led to a Peter Bennett 
y'-up. Case Western wouldnt fall. After 
illing a timeout, Case Western Reserve tied 
le score at 52-52. A tip in by center Bill
d/peeEUW WirnWN inWI 2pUne
lavCarl Mulac (34) and Greg Gabriel provided the only scoring punch for CMU as the baring Tartan offense had trouble scoring in the 2nd half.
Vaughn gave the Spartans a 2 point edge 
with 6:27 to play. The Spartans followed 
with tough defense and 2 successive baskets 
and increased their lead 6. Gabriel cut the 
lead to 4 on a 15 foot jumper with 4:50 left.
The Spartans went into their stall game 
for the remaining 4:30. Their delay tactics 
led to easy baskets against the frustrated 
CMU defense. Forward Dave Hollis con
verted 2 baskets to increase the Spartan lead 
to 10, 64-54.
In the closing minutes, CMU had to con
tinually foul and their last minute surge fell 
short. Gabriel connected twice more to fin
ish with 28 points.
By GREG PALM
Tartan Staffwriter
The tartan swim team began its season 
with a decisive win over Hiram last Satur
day. When the final winning relay of Con
don, Lenette, Palm, and Brekovsky had 
posted their points, the Tartans had taken a 
62 to 36 victory. The Tartans face a powerful 
conferece foe, Allegheny, this Wednesday.
Patti the Buzz Illig proved to be the 
highlight of the meet with a victory over he 
male counterparts in the 1000 yd. freestyle.
nIEUW Ea5Ea Am 3oEW ps x WIirnlE AnIIrE
By STEVE WINAWER and JOE OSINKI
ITartan Staffwriters
In a hard-fought battle between the Tarms and the Duquesne Dukes over thebragiig rights for best team in the league at this 
Juncture, the Dukes tc^ok a one goal advanage through the third period to gain an 
unearned 32 victory. The majority of the 
ime was played in the Duquesne end 
^here the Dukes goaltender was battered
with 40 tough shots.
CMU scored first in the game as defenseman Craig Janik took a pass from Eric 
Spray to put the puck past a tough 
Duquesne goalie. Duquesne then came back 
to tie the score early in the second period. 
This goal occurred during a power play. A 
mistake between the two CMU defensemen 
as the Duke player came in and shot the 
puck past Bob Kosakowski. Duquesne
scored again two minutes later on a poorly 
cleared puck by the CMU goaltender.
CMU closed the period by dramatically 
tying the score with 41 seconds left to play in 
the second period. Andy Andrejko cleanly 
beat Dukes goalie Jim Weif with a good 
hard shot from the slot. The third period 
opened poorly for the Tartans as the Dukes 
scored in the Cirst minute of the period.
Cameras come to gym
Buzz related after the meet that this event 
holds the most potential for her. Looking to 
the next meet, Buzz hopes to lower her time 
in an attempt to qualify for the Division III 
national meet.
Another excellent performance was 
posted by Pattis sister Gina in the 100 yd. 
individual medley. Though Gina had pre
viously been incapacitated, her time 1:01:0 
nearly made the qualifying time for 
nationals.
Dave Lenette, Randy Condon, and Paul 
Harvey all took two individual firsts to lead 
the team to their win. Both Randy and Dave 
completed their hat-tricks with firsts in the 
free relay. Other stron performers that 
Coach Donna Pecman looked for support 
were captain Rob Uber and new-found dis
tance swimmer tom Brekovsky.
The meet tomorrow' at 4:00 against 
Allegheny, at CMU, will pit twoot the Con
ferences strongest teams. On the following 
Wednesday the Tartans go to Duquesne for 
the annual CMU-Duquesne competition.
3i Ay I AISI0UcIN yP YLI
Tartans tried every way possible to push the puck into the net against Duquesne
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Sports Editor
If someone asked you which Pittsburgh 
school made an agreement with Warner 
Cable to televise one of their home games, 
you would probably answer with Pitt, 
Duquesne, or maybe even Robert Morris.
Well, folks, youre wrong. Guess whos 
hitting the big time? Thats right, none 
other than yours truly.
Warner Cable annouced that it plans on 
televising CMUs home basketball game 
with John Carrol University which will 
take place tomorrow night at 8 p.m. Tony 
Giordano will call the play-by-play with 
Mel Bennet, the former University of 
Pittsburgh and profesional basketball star, 
providing the color commentary.
The matchup between CMU and John 
Carrol will be taped and aired on Warner 
Cables channel 59 seven times beginning 
Jan. 21 at 7 p.m.
The Tartans appearance on Warner 
Cable marks the first time in CMU history 
that a home basketball game will be 
televised in its entirety.
Also involved in the festivities is a banner 
contest sponsored by the athletic dept, of 
CMU. The rules of the contest are simple. 
Any fraternity or sorority who comes up 
with the best booster banner in the eyes of a 
panel of judges will receive a trophy, which 
will be presented at halftime. A sell-out 
crowd is expected which will probably 
increase CMUs chances of returning to 
cable television.
John Carrol, pre-season favorites to win 
the PAC, is paced by 6' 2" guard John 
Colombo. Colombo, a first-team AllConference selection last season, ranks in 
the top five in the country in scoring with an 
average of 27.S. The feisty underdog Tartans 
will have a tough battle ahead of them.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanJanuary 18, 1983
ynUIns WiLUIW ULosaoi
photo by Steve WinawerThis CMU fencer avoided a Spartan thrust However, others didnt
uEss dInIE nrrW IL D(,
This game saw just about every penalty in 
the book called against the Dukes included 
the dreaded playing with a broken stick 
penalty. CMU did deserve to win this game 
by they now will go into their game Wednes
day against Wheeling looking to play a per
fect game. CMU needs some work on 
backchecking and if they had not had the 
Christmas break they would have defeated 
the Duquesne team. Unfortunately as 
things were, the Tartans did lose by a 3-2 
count.
The Camegie-Mellon Tartans started the
second half of their 1982-83 season with an 
impressive 6-2 victory over Penn StateMcKeesport on Saturday. Rick Samuelsen 
opened the scoring at 9:06 of the first as he 
bounced a Ted Dawson rebound off erf two 
defensemen and into the net.
Andy Andrejko made the score 2-0 after 
one with a quick shot in front at 12:36. The 
Tartans added two more goals in the first 
four minutes of the second, but Penn State 
matched than later in the period to make 
the score 4-2 after two.
Fencing
By MARK ACCETA
Tartan Staffurriter
The CMU fencing team lost Saturday to 
Case Western Reserve, 21 bouts to 15. Team 
wins in the Womens and Mens Foil catego
ries were countered by losses in the Sabre 
and Epee categories.
The Womens Foil Category, CMUs 
strongest overall was headed by fencers Beth 
Brannick and Robin Lucas. Both fencers 
were undefeated, winning three bouts each.
In Mens Foil, while tied at 4-4, after eight 
bouts, CMU was finally brought to victory 
by fencer Kevin Douling. Kevin was also 
undefeated in the tournament.
The Sabre and Epee teams, while putting 
up strong competition, lost 6-3 and 8-1, 
respectively.
Track
It may only be the middle of January but 
already track coach Gary Meckley is getting 
things set for the upcoming spring season. 
Meckley is holding a meeting Monday,
1RS TAX TIP
If you pay a preparer to complete 
your tax return, you should 
receive a copy of your tax return 
in addition to the copy which is 
filed with the IRS.
A public service message from 
the Internal Revenue Service
January 24th at 5:00 p.m. in the Womens 
Gym. However, this is not just an ordinary 
team meeting. The coach feels that in order 
for the team to attain a fifth straight 
conference title it must strengthen itself m 
certain events. Thats why he is appealing to 
the student body for help. Athletes are 
needed for the following: high jump, long 
jump, triple jump, shot put, discus, all short 
sprints, and hurdles.
Intramurals
The winter IM season is upon us and 
heres the story. Basketball season will begin 
Thursday, January 20th. However, students 
can still sign up teams because the deadline 
has been extended to today at 4:30. The 
commissioner for the majors will be Rand^ 
Dacanal and Mike Kelly x4058. The 
Intermediates will be led by Bob McNail 
681-1182. Jim Borowicz 681-1182 has the 
dubious distinction of being the 
commissioner for both the Minors and 
Womens divisions.
Managers for each team must attend an 
important rules clinic on Wednesday, Jan. 
19th at 4:30 in the Womens gym. They also 
can sign for practice time on the IM bulletin 
board.
Schedules are out for backgammon anl! 
games will begin this week. Commissioner 
Art Benjamin 683-5945 hopes for an 
exciting season on the boards.
Commissioners are still needed for two 
new sports, handball and bridge. All who 
are interested should contact Mr. Birdy at 
the IM office.
Entries are due for water basketball and 
wrestling on Jan. 27th. Commissioners ait 
also needed for all sports.
Advertising/Marketing
Seminar
The office of Career Services and Placement will 
present a seminar on Advertising and Marketing to be 
held on Thursday, January 20,1983 at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Wherrett room in Skiho.
Panelists from Ketchum Communications, a unit of 
Ketchum Advertising, 25th largest agency in the U.S. will 
discuss what the advertising business is all about and 
how to find employment in this exciting and fast moving 
industry.
Panelists include:
Judy Hofscher, Vice President, Associate Media Director 
Chris Labash, Vice President, Creative Group Head 
Bill Stein, Vice President, Management Supervisor 
Time will be available 
for discussion and questions.
All University Students Are Urged To Attend.
Sponsored by: Office of Career Services 8c Placement.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifieds
for sale: terminal and modem: 1200 baud. TI-820 
SR (needs repair), AL 1259 (almost new). Call 
evenings 366-1926.
Counseling and Student Development Center
Workshop offered this term is Speedreading 
($50). Participants learn how to increase speed 
and comprehension. Six sessions, Mondays from 
>6:30-8:30 p.m., Jan 31 - March 7. Register at Baker 
Hall 135 or by calling x2922.
If you need income AVON needs you to sell on 
campus, to friends or family. Call 361-6901.
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7:00 in the Wherrett Room. Students are invited 
to come and address the Senate during audience
participation.
Dont forget to make Shabbat dinner reservations 
at Bnai Brith Hillel by Wed. 5 p.m., 3rd floor 
J.C.C., 315 Bellefield Avenue, 621-8875.
Klassy Kids. Need maternity clothes, childrens 
clothes and furniture? Come to Klassy Kids for 
low cost, quality merchandise. Klassy Kids 
Clothing Exchange. 5819 B Forward Ave., 
Squirrel Hill. 521-8623.
Informal Bible Discussion Group meets every 
Monday evening at 9 in room 39, Skibo. It is nondenominational in nature, and deals with all 
topics direcdy from the Bible. Come on by and 
feel free to bring a friend.
Loving professional couple seeks adoption of 
infant. Can you help us? Call after 6 p.m. Bill and 
Gloria, 856-5827.
Will type termpapers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m., 521-0534.
Mountain Streams and Trails Outfitters is now
recruiting candidates to be trained as guides for 
its 1983 Cheat River season. Interested parties are 
invited to attend an informational meeting,
dealing with training, equipment, and pay, on _________________
Sat., Jan. 29 at 10:00 a.m. at the schoolhouse in 
Ohiopyle, PA. More information available at the OW0|^|TC 
student employment office or call 412/329- 
8810. ---------------------------
FREE mailed Bible correspondence course, 
home study Bible study, or counselling from the 
Word of God, write: Church of Christ, P.O. Box 
10542, Pgh., PA 15235. Phone: 795-2560.
SCRIBE Spoken Here!
Need help with an important research paper or 
thesis? SCRIBE got you down? Let me SCRIBE 
it for you in your own account. Tables, math, etc. 
Reasonable rates/cash only. 781-7044.
The Academic Bag Ladies give support to 
women over 25 who are grad students or 
retooling for a new career. Join us Thursday 12-1 
at the Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes 
Ave. Call 682-6886 for info.
CMU PIC is sponsoring a free film, So Many 
Voices, on Wednesday, January 19, and 
Thursday, January 20, at 7:30 p.m. and again at 
8:30 p.m. in Skibo, room 12. This pro-choice film 
looks back at the time before abortion was legal 
and safe. A discussion will follow each showing. 
The campus community is welcome. For further 
information, call Mananne Vakienerat683-1299. 
Forbes Gallery: Show of paintings and 
constructions by Brian Kaup, Michael Post, and 
Ben Smith. 5200 Forbes Ave., Pgh., PA 15217. 
(412) 578-2081
?TAKES ON EXCITING NEW DIMENSIONS
AR FORCE.
Computer-generated design for investigating 
structural strengths and weaknesses.
Developing and managing Air 
Force engineering projects could 
be the most important, exciting 
challenge of your life. The 
projects extend to virtually every 
engineering frontier.
M 3hfmmf 5gmTov 5ef mdgmmfv
astronautical, civil, 
electrical, mechanical and 
nuclear. Hundreds of diverse 
specialties are included in a wide 
variety of work settings. For 
example, an electrical engineer 
may work in aircraft design, 
space systems, power production, 
communications or research.
A mechanical engineer might be 
involved in aircraft structure 
design, space vehicle launch pad 
construction, or research.
tfeOm3q fmvtevg.gTgqb 3emv mhfTb g qum hgf 5ef3m
ettefqigqgmv g qum m1 ivh5 vth3m 3eho
Air Force electrical engineer studying aircraft 
electrical power supply system.
Engineering opportunities in 
the Air Force include these 
eight career areas: aeronautical, 
aerospace, architectural,
Air Force mechanical engineer inspecting 
aircraft jet engine turbine.
Most Air Force engineers 
have complete project 
responsibility early in their 
careers. For example, a first 
lieutenant directed work on a 
new airborne electronic system 
to pinpoint radiating targets. 
Another engineer tested the jet 
engines for advanced tanker and 
cargo aircraft.
Artists concept of the DSCS III Defense Satellite 
Communications System satellite. (USAF photo.)
Recently, the Air Force 
formed a new Space Command. 
Its role is to pull together space 
operations and research and 
development efforts, focusing on 
the unique technological needs of 
space systems. This can be your 
opportunity to join the team that 
develops superior space systems 
as the Air Force moves into the 
twenty-first century.
To learn more about how you 
can be part of the team, see your 
Air Force recruiter or call our 
Engineer Hotline toll free 
1-800-531-5826 (in Texas call 
1-800-292-5366).Theres no 
obligation.
AIM HIGH I AIRFORCE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanJanuary 18, 1983
more events
A nostalgic look at diners is the subject of a new 
exhibit by S. Boksenbaum that opened at Blatent 
Image Gallery on Saturday, January 14. Eat, 
Photographs for the New Depression is a black 
and white documentary study of diners, 
luncheonettes, and other places where people 
can still go to eat. A public opening will be held 
for Eat on Saturday, January' 14 from 7-9 pm. 
Blatent Image Gallery is located at 4626 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland (near S. Craig). Gallery hours are 
Wednesday through Friday 1-6 pm, Saturday 11- 
7 pm, and Sunday 1-6 pm.
Economic Strategies for 83  Americans for 
Democratic Action will sponsor a Town Meeting 
at 7:45 p.m. on Thursday, January 20, 1983 at the 
Benedum Hall Auditorium of the University of 
Pittsburgh, School of Engineering, located on 
the comer of Thackeray and OHara Streets in 
Oakland. The panel discussion will be 
moderated by Thomas Kerr. Participants in the 
program will be: Staughton Lynd, reknowned 
labor attorney, Mark D. Schwartz, an attorney 
specializing in public sector law, and Dwight 
Baumann, Professor of Engineering Design at 
Camegie-Mellon University and Director of the 
Center for Entrepreneurial Development. This 
meeting is open to the public, free of charge. For 
more information, contact the ADA office, 261- 
7344.
The CMU Peace Alliance invites you to attend a 
discussion on the Long Range Theater Nuclear 
Force, led by Prof. Michael Caliaham, on Wed., 
Jan. 19 at 5:30 p.m. in Baker Hall 129.
GSO will sponsor a blood drive on Tuesday, Jan. 
25 from 10 a.m. to 3:45 p.m. in the lower level of 
Ski bo.
Max van Egmond, leading European baritone,
and Capriccio, an instrumental duo, will 
perform in the Renaissance and Baroque 
Societys 2nd concert for the 1982-1983 season on 
Friday, January 21 at Synod Hall in Oakland at 
8:30 p.m.
Tickets for the concert will be available at the 
door. Admission is $8.00 or $5.00 for students 
with identification. Synod Hall is located in 
Oakland adjacent to St. Pauls Cathedral at 125 
N. Craig Street. For more information, call 731- 
3944 or 371-2671.
Pittsburgh Plan for Art announces the opening 
of four new exhibits on January 8, 1983. The 
work of Emily Cheng, Kenneth Cottrell, David 
Humphrey, and Mary Jean Kenton will be on 
view at the Plan until February 6, at 407 S. Craig 
St. in Oakland.
clubs
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music Project will 
present the fourth in its series of eight free 
concerts on Tuesday, Jan. 25 at 8:00 p.m. at the 
Mattress Factory, 500 Sampsonia Way,
Northside. The program will include Bachs 
Partita in E major for Solo Violin (played on the 
marimba), Brittens Phantasy Quartet for Oboe 
and Strings, Three Paganini Caprices for Violin,
the Rolla Duo Cpncertante for Violin and Viola, I
and the Suite for Voice and Violin by Villa5#
Lobos. The next concert will be on Feb. 15 at the ------------------------------
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. For further 
information, call (412)682-1746 or (412)241-4243.
The Explorers Club meets every Thursday at 
6:30 in room 11, Skibo. Winter activities include 
caving, skiing, iceclimbing, hiking and back
packing:.
Skydiving Club. There will be an organizational 
meeting of the new CMU Skydiving Club on 
Tuesday, January 18, at 8:00 p.m. in Skibo, 
Room 12. Anyone interested, be there, we need 
your support. If there are any questions, call Bill 
Warkany at x4331.
Pro-life?
Join CMU Association For Life. We believe in 
the sacredness on every human life - esp. mothers 
and their children, contact Andy Sicree at 621- 
2911 or Bill Jacob at 681-9853 for more info.
Introductory Law Club meeting Tues., Jan. 18, 
7:30 p.m. in GSIA 225. All welcome.
Womens group forming. There will be a 
meeting Monday, Jan. 24, 8:00 p.m., at Hillel 
House.
Feb. 1.
Decision Making Workshop Learn the process'i 
of decision making. Three sessions, Wednesdays 1 
from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m., Feb 9 - Feb 23. 
Managing Stress Leam how to cope with 
academic and personal pressures. Four sessions 
Thursdays, 4:30 - 6:00 p.m., Feb 10 - March 3.
Building Self-Esteem Leam how to feel better 
about yourself. Four sessions, Thursdays from 
4:30-6:00 p.m., April 7-April 28.
Test Taking I: Preparation for Taking Tests" 
One session, Monday, Feb. 7, 4:30-5:30 p.m 
Repeats on Tues., April 5, PH 126C. Sj
Test Taking II: How to Take Exams One 
session, Monday, Feb 14, 4:30-5:30 p.m. Repeats 
on Tuesday, April 19, PH 126C.
Test Taking III: Dealing with Exam Anxiety 
One session, Monday, Feb. 21, 4:30-5:30 p.m. 
Repeates on Tuesd., April 19, PH 126C.
Found. Womans High School Ring 1981, in 
Ladies Locker Room in Gymnasium. Call 
x2211 or come to room 102, Athletic Department, 
Gym.
Roman Catholic Mass is celebrated at 7:00 p.m. 
on Saturday and at 10:30 a.m. on Sunday in thd* 
multipurpose room of Hunt Library. Daily mass 
is celebrated at 12:30 p.m. in Skibo 39.
National Pro-life March: The Pro-life groups at 
Pitt and Camegie-Mellon are co-sponsoring a 
bus to Washington, D.C., Saturday, January 22 
for the national March for Life. This one day trip 
will cost $10 for students and $15 for non
students. For more information and to reserve a 
seat please call Andy Sicree at 621-2911 or Harry 
Brock at 624-9854.
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oi. cons (& quarts)
STROHS
L0WENBRAU lt., Dk..-bottles
MICHELOB
BUDWEISER
MILLE
OLD ENGLISH 800 
SCHLITZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
ERLANGERbottles 
GENESSEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
PA8ST 
SCHLITZ
PEARL (Texas)bottles 
DOUBLE DARKbottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALEbottles 
C01T45 
MILLER LITE 
MICHELOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Steok  Corned Beef  Tuno  TurkeySANDWICHES
Haddock  Cod  Ground Steak  Sausage 
Veol  Chuck  Chicken PormesanSPECIALTY ITEMS
Steak Subs  Fresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments 
Pizzo served till 3 am WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sunday 1 pm-2 am 
Imports. Cans Quarts, Draft Pitchers Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Droft Beers: 
HEINEKEN  MOLSON ALE  MICHELOB 
STROHS  MILLERS  SCHLITZ MALT
One different 16 oz 6 pk 
featured each week
STROHS  ROLLING ROCK  SCHLITZ 
OLD ENGLISH 800  SCHLITZ MALT  PABST
Counseling and Student Development Center 
Workshops. The following workshops are 
offered this term. Register at Baker Hall 135 or by 
calling x2922.
Get in Shape: Reshape Eating Behavior Leam 
how to eat well and manage weight loss, 10 
sessions, Wednesdays from 4:30 to 6:00 p.m., Jan 
26 - April 6.
Effective Studying Develop more effective 
study habits. One session, Saturday, Jan 29, or 
March 12. 9:00 a.m. to noon in PH 126C.
Assertiveness Training Leam how to ask for 
what you want without feeling guilty. Three 
sessions, Tuesdays from 4:30 to 6:00 p.m. Begins
official
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Friday, February 4, 
1983. Students who wish fo meet with the 
president should telephone his office, 578-2200, 
to set up an appointment. ;
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences, will hold open 
office hours for students each Tuesday, 1:30 - 
3:30, BH 260.
Imports
BECKS Lt Dk  Germony 
BASS ALE  England 
HARP LAGER  Ireland 
MOLSON GOLDEN - Conodo 
HEINiKEN Lt. Dk -Holland 
LOWENBRAUGermany 
O'KEEFE ALECanodo 
PILSNfR URQUfLL-Czech 
KIRIN-Jopon
MACKESSON STOUT -lielond 
OLD VIENNA LAGER-Conodo 
55 LAGER-Conodo
ST PAULI GIRL Germony 
DOS EQUIS XX Mexico 
JOHN COURAGE-England 
WATNETS Englond 
CARLSBERG ELEPHANT - Oen 
CARLSBERG ROY ALE - Denmark 
CARLSBERG DARK - Denmark 
TSINGTAO-Ch.no 
HACKER PSCHORRGermony 
LABATT S-Conodo 
MURPHY  Ireland 
COOPER & SON  Australia 
FOSTER S LAGER-Australia
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC.
Open9am-3 45am Sun-Thurs 9am-4 45am Fri-Sot Call 621-7388 or 621 1185 3901 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) Pgh., PA 15213
PREPARE FOR
MCAT  LSAT-GM AT 
SAT-DAT-GRE-CPA
Permanent Centers open days, 
evenings and weekends.Low hourly cost. Dedicated fulltime staff.
Complete TEST-n-TAPc-Mfacilities 
for review of class lessons and 
supplementary materials.
Small classes taught by skilled 
instructors.
Opportunity to make up missed 
lessons.
Voluminous home-study materials 
constantly updated by research
ers expert in their field. 
Opportunity to transfer to-and 
continue study at any of our 
over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILA8LE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NOB  NLE
-H.
Call Dys Eve"; & Wpplnds
Essex House LI 2N
Corners Center, Negley & Baur 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206EDUCATIONAL CENTER
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938661-2772
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
Ml
PRECISION
HAIRCUTCOLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-1LOW STYLE) 
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
WIT
onomM.
Mon., Tu., Wed. 10-7 
Thun , Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6667-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PKeoaoN HMcunsc
237 Atwood Siren 
Across the street from 
Oakland Did Office
CAU 576-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
