The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 19, March 12, 1985.
Variety makes Greek Sing shine
By RIC MEDROWTartan Features Editor
Greek Sing 1985 netted between 
13 ^00 and $4,000 for Alzheimers 
isease and Related Disorders Association 
f Western Pennsylvania.
According to Christine Hayes, chairman 
f Greek Sing, representatives from the 
harity responded well to the event. 
They really liked the show. It was better 
han they expected, said Hayes.
Several of the judges concurred. A1 
omburg, head of music at Carrick High 
chool and teacher at Duquesne Univer
ity, loved it. Homburg judged Greek 
ling several years ago and cited Kappa 
tlpha Thetas Aint Misbehavin; Sigma 
dpha Epsilons Oklahoma!, and Delta 
Jpsilons II Trovatore as examples of 
more top-notched groups this year than 
he previous year he judged.
Philip Miscimarra, a labor attorney and 
anist, liked the variety. Some concenrated on music, some on the school and 
)thers on theatrics.
The Editor of Market Square, Michelle 
ilecki, said, I was surprised at this
alibre.
The administration screened all of the 
cts about a week prior to the show, 
eciding at first to forbid four groups, 
Ipha Tau Omega, Beta Theta Pi, Delta Tau 
>elta and Sigma Nu, because the adJiinistration decided the groups werent 
-adv. When several students talked to 
raden Walter, dean of Student Affairs, 
#)out the decision, Walter reversed his 
cecision.
I The acts were not offensive, so we 
lecided to let them sing, said Walter. ATO 
timately was not permitted to perform, 
hile Beta decided not to perform.
The screening stemmed from the antimitic nature of ATOs performance last 
ar. Walter pointed out that many comaints were issued to the Greek Sing 
mmittee last year concerning ATOs act, 
eluding calls from the Hospice Society, 
e charity for whom Greek Sing was 
ven last year.
photo by Mike PilewskiOompa-lumpahs complete their daily chores in Pi Kappa Alphas version of Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. Wonka 
and friends look on.
Asked what she thought about the issue 
of considering preparedness in such a 
screening, Pilecki responded, Either this 
is a student activity or its not. If a group 
wants to get out there and make fools of 
themselves, they have to live with it. 
Pilecki added, Its not a big public thing, 
so who is it going to offend? answering, 
Their classmates, the ones who are go
ing to drop water bombs on them. 
Hayes said she agrees with Pilecki. 
Since it was a Greek thing, it should re
main in our hands, said Hayes.
Walter counters that We do have a right 
to make sure not to offend anyones race, 
nationality or religion.
According to a letter to the editor 
printed in The Tartan last year by several
ATO brothers, the act, depicting people 
kicking a Jew, was not meant to be antiSemitic and was choreographed by 
several Jewish brothers.
The winners of this years competition 
were: Fraternity Category: first place 
Delta Upsilon, second place Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, third place Pi Kappa Alpha. 
Sorority Category, first place Kappa Alpha
Theta, second place Delta Delta Delta, 
third place Chi Omega. Mixed Category: 
first place Theta Xi, second place Pi Lamb
da Phi, third place Delta Tau Delta. Delta 
Upsilon won best overall. The judges 
were Pilecki, Homburg, Miscimarra, Hit 
Radio 96 disc jockey, Susie Barbour and 
-73 of the Pittsburgh Steelers, Craig 
Wolfley.
Administration backs 
down from SEI forum
lili
inancial aid cut 
rotest planned
m Karen MEDRWtan News Editor 
Piles of letters protesting the Reagan Ad
juration's proposed financial aid cuts 
grace the desks of U.S. Senators if 
ns are realized.
freshman Kathy Murtaugh and General 
^PUs and Information committee 
>rman Peter Cohen plan to rally sup't a^ainst cuts that could eventually af1^ private universities, according to
Murtaugh and Cohen plan to make it
 t(>r students to write their senators 
Usin8 a computerized system with a 
r thir i *Cttcr ^ he program will prompt 
d th name ant* address of the student, 
no C name an(l address of his or her 
anT * erSn *etler will be scribrnailed out, according to Cohen.
He said that he is hopeful that Student 
Senate will fund mailing costs.
President Cyert very much supports 
us, as does Walter Cathie and Dean Cox, 
Cohen said. [Dr. Cyert] said that in our 
letter, we should stress the abuses in the 
system as the implications of the propos
ed cuts.
At press time, Murtaugh and Cohen had 
planned to talk with U.S. Senator Arlen 
Specter (R-PA) during his visit to CMU on 
Monday.
Were trying to get students to realize 
that they can make an impact, continued 
Cohen. Regardless of whether youre a 
Republican or a Democrat, its a serious 
thing
For a school with people who are sup
posed to take charge of the modern 
world, we arent politically active 
enough, said Murtaugh.
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON Special to The Tartan
The CMU Administration has refused a 
CMU Peace-Alliance invitation to par
ticipate in a public forum on the Software 
Engineering Institute (SEI).
Peace-Alliance members conceived of 
the idea for the forum hoping to educate 
the campus community on all issues 
related to SEI. But the university ad
ministration felt the format was inap
propriate.
We feel weve answered the questions 
related to SEI, said Provost Dr. Angel Jor
dan. He added that the format of the 
forum was inappropriate, but that the Ad
ministration would be willing to pui on 
its own presentation for the campus com
munity, and answer questions afterward.
The Peace-Alliance members have 
decided to go ahead with the forum 
anyway and have tentatively planned the 
evening of April 3 as the forum date. 
Although details are unclear, at least one 
member of the River City Non-violent 
Resistance Campaign and one PeaceAlliance member will be on the panel. As 
many as four other panelists may be in
vited, presenting views on different 
aspects of SEI.
After all panelists have spoken, ques
tions will be traded on the panel, and 
then solicited from the audience.
A benefit concert will be held at the 
end of March to publicize the event and 
to solicit student involvement.
FEATURES 
Teen suicide,
In This Issue:
NEWS
Bhopal tragedy.........................page 3
UMOC winner..................................page *4
. - page 7 
-page 10Tension in Ireland.. 
ENTERTAINMENT
Ladyhawke................................page 13
SPORTS
Athlete of the Month. 
EDITORIAL
page 22
Pittsburgh improving..page 26 
ACME..................................pages 29-30
Note:
With spring break and publication of The 
Natrat forthcoming, The Tartan bids 
adieu until April 9, when we resume 
regular publication.

---------------------------------------------------

WHAT ARE YOU DOING??
Are you tired of stumbling through 
this school doing nothing but 
schoolwork? Well, we could be your 
best chance to change all that.
The Tartan needs you. And you just 
might need The Tartan.
If you think you know what were say
ing, or if you have no idea what were 
saying, or if you think you have some 
idea but arent sure, or if you say you 
arent thinking, or if all of the above 
apply, we just may be meant for each 
other.
But, at the very least, if you dont think 
you have time to put into your univer
sitys newspaper, youre wrong.
Just wrong.
(Really.)
To find out how we can help each 
other to fame, fortune and healthy 
gums, come to the Tartan office on 
Sunday afternoon, March 31st. Well 
have plenty of pizza, and well be 
working on our annual parody issue, 
The Natrat. Drop by, have some food, 
give us a funny idea to print, and talk 
to the editors about what youre in
terested in.
(And dont worry...we dont bite.)
Funded in part by Activities Fee
Paid positions now available. Call x2111 and ask for
Steve.

---------------------------------------------------

March 12, 1985The TartanPage 3
Experts discuss Bhopal tragedy
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
Issues surrounding the December 3 
methyl isocynanate gas leak at a chemical 
plant in Bhopal, India, were addressed at 
The industrial Accident at Bhopal: 
Causes and Consequences  last Thursday 
in the Skibo Ballroom.
The symposium, a Presidents Lecture 
Series presentation, featured a four-person 
panel of experts in toxicology, crisis 
management and engineering and public 
policy. CMU Engineering and Public 
policy Department Head M. Granger 
Morgan moderated the discussion and the 
audience participation which followed.
CMU Engineering and Public Policy 
professor Robert Ayres, who recently 
returned from Bhopal, gave a synopsis of 
the events at the Union Carbide chemical 
plant which led to the release of 30 tons 
of methyl isocyanate and the subsequent 
deaths of over 2500 people.
According to Ayres, the two safety 
backups guarding the storage of 45 metric 
tons of methyl isocyanate, used in the 
making of pesticides, were not operating 
t the time of the leak.
In addition, the amount of methyl iso
late stored was only an estimate, as intruments used to measure the amount, 
ressure and temperature of the liquid gas 
n the storage tanks werent working well 
ither. [The plant workers] never really 
rusted their instruments, said Ayres. 
Little heed, therefore, was paid to the 
irst sign of trouble at 11 pm on December 
, when a worker noticed that the p.s.i 
ounds per square inch) reading had 
isen from three to ten, or that the 
emperature, which was supposed to be 
aintained at 5 degrees Centigrade, had 
isen from 15 to 20.
By 11:30 pm, some employees were 
noticing irritation of the eyes.
By 11:45 pm, a small amount of gas was 
reported escaping into the outside air; but 
a tea break scheduled for midnight 
postponed immediate action, Ayres said.
At 12:45 am the concrete encasement
photo by Olve PeersenPaul Shrivastava, Assistant Professor at 
New York Universitys Graduate School 
of Business Administration, 
surrounding the tanks cracked with a loud 
rumbling noise, at which point most of 
the employees were dismissed for the 
night. Some, however, remained, wearing 
oxygen masks.
Both the scrubber, a safety device 
which could have neutralized the escap
ing gas with water, and the vent flame, 
which could have burned anything not 
handled by the scrubber, were down for 
maintenance at the time. They didnt re
quire much maintenance, Ayres said.
He explained some of the general pro
blems of maintaining levels of safety in an 
underdeveloped country such as India.
There is a climate difference. It is very 
hot and humid, and the rapid growth of 
molds and fungi can quickly destroy in
sular materials.
In addition, the Indian government, 
which has some responsibility for inspec
tion, hires only two inspectors to inspect 
some 800 factories a year.
Plants in India also face the safety pro
blem of homeless Indians who camp out
side the gates of the facilities. These In
dians know nothing of inside operations 
and possible health hazards, but come to 
places such as the Union Carbide plant in 
order to draw water from its outside 
pipes.
Every morning there was a line of 
women waiting to get water, said Ayres. 
It was a tough decision for local 
authorities to move these people out.
CMU Associate Professor of Biological 
Sciences William Brown, who has work
ed on the chemical and biological aspects 
of methyl isocyanate for many years, said 
that researchers of the chemical are try
ing to locate the protein in human beings 
responsible for the physiological reaction 
that killed over 2500 people.
Until now, samples of animals have 
been used, but the incident at Bhopal may 
provide human samples, though under 
uncontrolled conditions.
Yves Alarie, Professor of Respiratory 
Physiology and Toxicology at University 
of Pittsburghs Graduate School of Public 
Health, explained that effects of methyl 
isocyanate are reversible until the 
chemical has damaged the sensory nerve 
endings in the eyes, nose, and throat. 
Were interested in predicting a level of
exposure in which there would be no sen
sory irritation, he said.
Currently, Alarie and others at the 
University of Pittsburgh are trying to 
detect and rate the potency of the 
chemical in mice: We have tested some 
forty different irritants for which there are 
safe levels.
Paul Shrivastava, Assistant Professor at 
New York Universitys Graduate School of 
Business Administration, maintained that 
many more than 2500 persons died in the 
incident. About 7000 are still missing, 
he said.
The Bhopal accident may be symp
tomatic of a larger problem: the disparity 
between Indias structural capacity to 
cope with the health hazards of chemical 
plants, and its need for pesticides to 
achieve agricultural autonomy. According 
to Shrivastava, many less publicized in
cidents in all underdeveloped countries 
kill 100,000 people and seriously poison 
another two million every year.
Up until now, many chemical com
panies have been very secretive about 
what they were doing inside the plant. 
They didnt want to frighten people. They 
should have frightened people, added 
Ayres.
Many plants do not have any con
tingency plans, continued Shrivastava. 
[The Bhopal plant workers] did not 
know the difference between a lunch 
siren and a fire siren. More needs to be 
done about the degree of preparedness. 
Alarie, however, views the problem in 
a slightly different way: They have no 
maintenance whatsoever because theyre 
losing money. It happens all the time. 
Union Carbide, the owner of the 
Bhopal plant, has been operating in India
continued on page 4
256k IBm PC, 2 disk drives, monochrome Display 
Display /Printer Adapter, Asynchronous 
Adapter, DOS, Epsilon, Scribble, Kermit, 
micro Spell and a box of double-sided disks 
as little as.............................................$9100/month*
* Mellon Bank Cre<Jit-on-Call Financing is available at 
the Computer Store
Dm]
CMU Computer Store
*New Discount Packages^
Apple Macintosh with MacWrite/MacPaint, Imagewriter Printer, External Disk Drive, Carrying Case 
and Service Contracts on all equipment$2120.00* 
For 512k Macintosh....................................$2670.00*
Until March 29th, anyone purchasing this package 
may take an additional $250.00 off of the package 
price or receive $300.00 worth of additional store 
merchandise. Remember, this offer is only good 
through March 29th
*Time Payment Plans are Available
CMU 
Computer Store

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanMarch 12, 1985
VuDu wins 
Ugly Man 
for DTD
By KATHLEEN ROMANIKSpecial to The Tartan
For the fifteenth year in a row, Delta Tau 
Delta (DTD) fraternity has claimed first 
place in the Ugliest Man On Campus 
(UMOC) contest.
This year the winner was Liem Vu, also 
known as VuDu, who earned over 20,000 
votes.
The contest, an annual event sponsored 
by Alpha Phi Omega Service Fraternity, 
was held last Wednesday and Thursday, 
March 6 and 7, at Skibo Grey Matter.
Contestants competed for the title of 
Ugliest Man On Campus by having their 
picture displayed, and the student body 
voted for the ugliest with money  a 
penny counted for one vote and ballot 
stuffing was encouraged.
UMOC, a tradition at Delta Tau Delta, 
is one of their annual charity projects. The 
weekend before the event, DTD holds its 
own contest to choose a candidate. 
Brothers nominate each other by bidding 
money; the bids start at a penny and contjpue to increase. By the time the list of 
candidates has been narrowed down to 
one, a large sum of money has been rais
ed, which goes to support that candidate 
in the contest.
The proceeds from the contest, which 
totaled over $280 this year, are donated 
to St. Jude Childrens Hospital.
Donner Hall, with $5.67 worth of 
votes, claimed first place in the new 
Ugliest Buildmg on Campus contest. 
Skibo came in at a close second with
Health-ORama comes 
CMU
By PETER ROSENFELDTartan Staffwriter
The Health-O-Rama, a United Waypro I 
gram, will offer free health screenings to 
the CMU community in the Wherrett 
Room on Wednesday, March 27 from 9 
.m. to 4 p.m.
The program will provide diagnostic! 
screenings for high blood pressure, heart! 
disease (EKG), near and far point vision I 
anemia, kidney and liver disease 
(urinalysis), and diabetes. A complete! 
follow-up and referral program is proviJ 
ed pending a positive test result. Com-I 
munity members are encouraged to par-1 
ticipate in one or all of these screenings [
The Health-O-Rama will be brought to| 
the campus through the efforts of senior! 
John Pope, President of the Carnegie Carc| 
Unit, the Universitys pre-medical, d< 
and veterinary club.Bhopal
Liem Vu, also known as VuDu, represented Delta Tau Delta in itsUgliest Man 
on Campus victory.
$4.67. Other nominated campus struc
tures were Warner Hall, the Gym, Scaife, 
the Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration, and Obstruction in the 
Hallway, a group of students who arrang
ed themselves in pyramid formation.
The other winners for UMOC were as 
follows: second place  So Ugly the
Camera Winced (Kim Fontanesi) from 
the Computation Center ($37.44); third 
place  It Wasnt Me (Shih-Tung Ngiam) 
from the Asian Cultural Organization 
($8.28); fourth place  Ugly in 83 and 
Still Going Strong (Gregg Wolff) ($8.25) 
and fifth place  R.A. 6th Floor E 
Tower (John Pope) ($5.11).
continued from page 3
for about half a century. The government! 
of India, eager for agricultural autonomj 
as a means of solving the countrys star-f 
vation problem, encouraged the expan| 
sion of the facility. Over the past 
years, investment in the Bhopal plai 
grew to $25 million.
Until a few years ago, the plant was 2 
example of state of the art technolog}] 
according to Morgan. However, followiti 
a gradual decrease in profits whid 
culminated in 1984 losses of $4 million, 
the plant had chronically run 
capacity.
Carnegie-Involvement Association
How is your chance to get involved 
in Spring Carnival
 Buggy
 Booth
For more information call
x4733 or x4751
All Activities Fee Paying Students are Welcome
Funded by Student Activities Fee
Student Senate presents 
George Duncan, Assoc 
Prof. of SUPA and Chairman of 
the CMU Tuition Committee, 
will address the Senate on Tui
tion for the 1986-87 school 
year.
Tuesday night, 7:00 pm 
in the Wherrett Room 
All members of the campus 
community 
are invited to attend
funded by

---------------------------------------------------

March 12, 1985The TartanPage 5
H&SS Spring Fling set 
for March 29 at CMH
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
On March 29 George Gee and His 
Make-Believe Ballroom Orchestra will 
sound Carnegie Hall with swing for those 
attending the Spring Fling, now in its sixth
year.
The dance, sponsored by the H&SS 
Deans office and the H&SS Student Ad
visory Council, is open to all students. Ac
cording to organizer Joseph E. Devine, 
Academic Advisory Center director, the 
Spring Fling will give everyone the chance 
to celebrate the relief of winter being 
over. It has a wonderful effect on the 
moral of the college.
George Gee and His Make-Believe 
Ballroom Orchestra have performed at the 
Spring Fling since its inception in 1979, 
when the event was held aboard the 
Gateway Clipper. Devine said that 
although the Clipper was a unique place 
to hold the dance, it kept students from 
coming and going as they pleased.
Devine stresses that this year, students 
have the option of buying tickets for din
ing and dancing or just dancing. The 
tickets for dancing are available through 
March 29, but those who wish to dine at 
Carnegie Hall should note that the 
deadline for purchase of those tickets is 
March 19.
Minutes of the Student Senate, March 5, 1985
The meeting was called to order at 7.05. 
Chairman:
At the Auxiliary Services meeting it was an
nounced that next years meal plan will in
troduce the Super 19 plan, allowing a 
fourth meal period in the evening if one of 
the earlier three is missed. There will still only 
be three meals a day per contract holder. The 
opening of More Pizza on weekends for the 
second half of this semester was also 
discussed.
Next week Professor Duncan, chairman of 
the Tuition Committee, will address Senate 
Academic Affairs:
The Core Curriculum survey (in your 
folders now) is being distributed through the 
Tartan, info desk in Skibo, Hunt Library, 
Alpha Phi Omega, and hopefully IFC.
The committee is also asking for com
plaints and comments about professors for 
its upcoming student handbook 
GC&I:
The committee would like to take action 
against the proposed $8.6 billion cuts in 
financial aid to students. It is contacting lob
byists in Washington and hopes to set up a 
computer service that will provide each stu
dent with the address of his Congressman so 
that he can contact him and protest these pro
posed cuts. Senate, the committee feels,
should sponsor this and provide funding for 
the postage and set up a table perhaps in April 
to provide this service.
An ultimate frisbee contest will be held one 
week before Carnival, with a cash prize for 
the winning team
Committee members will be meeting with 
Chief Fazden concerning signs on Margaret 
Morrison Street to alleviate some of the traf
fic problems there.
Ads in the Tartan will continue.
Finance:
The committee met with the Computer 
Club concerning their proposed revision of 
their 1984-85 budget to add what the com
mittee suggested last year to return and 
request.
Q: What are the lab supplies the club plans 
to buy?
A: 1400 for an EPROM burner, 1240 for a 
modem, 1100 for a desk, $400 for a lab 
bench, $70 for a surge protector, and $120 
for robots to connect computers to hardware.
Motion to allocate $ 1599 to the Computer 
Club
Motion passes.
General Discussion:
Ed Miller announced a meeting with Gina 
Osborne concerning the securing of the 
Bremmer House for graduates and 
undergraduates.
A Phi O scholarship
photo by Rob McNicholas
Academic Advisory Center Director Joseph Devine is organizing the upcoming 
Spring Fling dance.
By ODILE SAID-NEJAD
Special to The Tartan
The Kappa chapter of Alpha Phi Omega 
is offering its annual scholarships in the 
memory of Professor Kent D. Shaffer. Two 
scholarships of the amounts of $400 and 
$200 will be awarded from a trust fund 
in Professor Kent D. Shaffers name.
The late Professor Shaffer was the ad
visor to Kappa chapter for 27 years. Dur
ing his life, he dedicated himself to the ser
vice of mankind. He was a volunteer 
member of many organizations including 
the National Council of Boy Scouts of 
America, a worker for the Campus Chest, 
the Red Cross, the U.S.O. and the Salva
tion Army.
As a professor at CMU, Shaffer was ac
tive as a faculty member of the College 
Executive Board, chairman of the Facul
ty Welfare Committee, and the advisor to 
the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity.
These awards are open to any 
undergraduate in the campus communi
ty who feel they best exemplify the ideals 
of leadership, service and friendship, by 
which Professor Shaffer led his life and 
upon which Alpha Phi Omega is based.
An applicant must be a full time 
undergraduate student at CarnegieMellon, not have been awarded this 
scholarship before, and not be a member 
of Alpha Phi Omega.
1Logo ContestA PHI O Shuttlebus
JForto the
Scotland YardAirport
March 15
Design a logo for
our new campusDeparting Morewood
pubScotland Yard11:45 a.m. 3:45 p.m.
1:45 p.m. 5:45 p.m.
Departing Donner
12:00 noon 4:00 p.m.
Aprize will be awarded2:00 p.m. 6:00 p.m.iOnly $4.00 (cheap!)
Sign up at Skibo Information Desk
Limited seating available
Deadline: Friday, March 29
Return pntrip to Skihn Information Dp^kAnother A Phi O Service j
* 1 1 U1 ILI IvO lv-/ wiXIUU II 11 V/1 1 1 IdUUI 1 L/v/OiX
GC&I by Friday, March 15th

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan staff now has
POSITIONS AVAILABLE
in
* Production and Paste-Up 
*Newsreporting 
*Ad Design and Management
* Business 
* Editorial and Managerial Assistantship
* Other Areas
Come to an Open House 
Sunday afteinooiij March 319 1985
after 2:00 pm in Skibo 50

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Suicide signals and prevention discussed
By Neal W. Johnston
Tartan Contributing Editor
It was Saturday morning, and I found 
myself sitting in the hospital room of a 
friend. He lay in bed looking pale, prop
ped up on several pillows. His left wrist 
b a n -
daged, and the I.V. tube ran to/
his right arm. It was a beautiful 
spring day, and I still couldnt 
believe what had happened: my best 
friend had tried to commit suicide by slit
ting his wrist.
A couple of weeks before, he had been 
depressed about one thing or another: 
school work was getting on his nerves, 
the term would soon be over and hed 
have to go home, leaving his friends for 
the summer; and finals were fast ap
proaching. But then he began feeling bet
ter, talking about the fun times he was go
ing to have over the summer. He wasnt 
the type to try suicide. Oh sure, he men
tioned that hed like to get away from it 
all, or maybe take the easy way out. Dont 
we all say things like that?
The shocking truth is that suicides are 
increasing. According to figures released 
'rom the American Association of 
Suicidology (AAS), suicide is the eighth 
leading cause of death among children 
ight to fourteen. It jumps sharply to seond place among fifteento twenty-fourear olds, behind only accidents (which 
ay include cases of hidden suicide), 
ach year, an estimated 400,000 teenagers 
ttempt suicide and 5,000 to 10,000 are 
uccessful. Suicide, for persons age 24 and 
nder, has increased by 25 per cent over 
he last two decades.
Think about itwho do you feel could 
ommit suicide? The trouble maker or 
lass clown, always trying to make himself 
r herself the center of attention? The 
oor, unresponsive student? The good, 
ooperative student? The class president?
e hacker? The quarterback of the 
ootball team? The intellectual?
In additon to such general underlying 
nfluences, specific events may push a 
otentially sucidal youngster over the 
dge. Among them are: breakup of a 
omance or close relationship; failure to 
in a coveted award or position or be ac
cepted socially at school; loss of a parent; 
or the death of a treasured pet.
According to statistics, 80 per cent of 
teenagers who commit suicide have given 
one or more signs of their intention 
beforehand. A teenager who responds to 
unhappiness by behaving irresponsibly 
using drugs or joining a wild crowdis 
likely to get more atttention than the 
adolescent who studies hard, always acts 
thoughtfully, and never causes any trou
ble. Yet, the perfect child may be at 
even greater risk of suicide since one slip 
from any self-imposed standard or expec
tation can shatter his or her self-image. If 
the danger signs are there, it is time to act.
Factors to Consider
Suicide is prevalent in all types of 
teenagers and none can be ruled out on 
the basis of superficial classifications. But 
frequently the one who commits suicide 
is the one who doesnt come to mind at 
allthe person who is quiet, isolated, 
aloof, and no trouble to anybody. Its 
teenagers such as these who often need 
attention but dont get it at home or in 
school simply because their behavior 
doesnt demand it; they dont stand out 
and are easily overlooked.
Chief among the situations that seem to 
contribute to teenagers suicidal tenden
cies is family breakdownthrough 
divorce, death, or simply intense concen
tration by parents on their careers at the 
expense of attention to their childrens 
needs. Many parents of suicidal youths 
were too busy to notice how troubled 
their children were. Teenagers who sur
vive suicide attempts often report that 
they cannot talk to their parents or that 
their parents belittle their problems. If an 
adolescent belives nobody cares/ that 
can be sufficient provocation, regardless 
of how the parents really feel .
Geographic mobility of modern 
families iS another important faetof. A 
move to a new community when a 
teenager is already insecure can leave the 
young person fearful, lonely, and bereft. 
Many experience intense reactions over 
the loss of a familiar school, 
neighborhood, friends, and activities.
Some children snap under the strain of 
intense ambition in upwardly mobile 
families. They feel obliged to get top
grades and participate in countless ac
tivities. Such overprogrammed children 
are often anxious, tense, and may interpret 
a failure to succeed at everything as mean
ing they are no good. Or they may see 
that their hard-driving parents are unhap
py despite carrer success and affluence 
and decide that theres really nothing 
worth living for.
Signs
\ ' "He said something about bow he 
might as well be dead, but I didnt take 
himseriously" v
"She said she was going to kill herself, 
but I never thought shed really do it."
/ can't believe it. He just wasnt the 
type. And anyway, people who talk about 
suicide don't usually do it."
People who work with the problem of 
suicide hear statements like these over and 
over again. Unfortunately, when such 
comments are made, it is too late to help. 
They are based on the most common of 
misconceptions about suicidethat the
person who is serious about ending his 
or her life doesnt talk about it.
The truth is that before committing 
suicide, people often threaten very direct
ly to kill themselves, or make thinly veil
ed comments about such things as 
wishing to be dead, or that they are a 
burden on friends and relatives, or that 
everyone would be better off without 
them. Such threats and remarks should 
always be taken seriously.
Just as obvious and almost: as often ig
nored are previous suicide attempts. Peo
ple assume that if the suicide was not 
completed, the person was imply striv
ing for attention and not serious about dy
ing. The fact is, four out of five people 
who commit suicide have made at least 
one previous attempt It may be true that 
in some cases a suicide is an effort to call 
attention to oneselfa kind of cry for 
help. But if the cry
does not get that attention, that help, the 
next attempt might be fatal.
continued on page 11
ark Schenley fails with formal occasions
By RIC MEDROWTartan Features Editor
If Chi Omegas formal had been held 
anywhere else, the mediocre food and 
poor service would have been expected. 
Serving a full course meal to a group of 
over 50 people isnt easy. But 
a little more is expected from 
the Park Schenley 
The Park Schenley proudly 
displays the four star review of the 
restaurant printed in The Pittsburgh Press. 
And everyone who saw Flashdance 
remembers the scene filmed in the Park 
Schenely in which the protagonist slips 
her shoe off her foot and . . . well, if ou 
havent seen it, you should. But, when it 
comes to formals, the Park Schenley fails 
to live up to its reputation.
The manager showed her inexperience 
in the clumsy manner in which she handl
ed one problem. Evidently, a week earlier 
one Pitt sorority had called the police 
complaining about the behavior of 
another Pitt sorority which had been to 
a Park Schenely formal that night.
Obviously, the manager had a job to do, 
and she wanted to avoid a similar fiasco. 
However, instead of quietly giving proper
instructions to the bartender, the manager 
went over to an underage couple who 
already had drinks and loudly asked for 
identification, embarrassing them. She 
then had someone announce that should 
anyone else underage attempt to obtain an 
alcoholic beverage, she would immediate
ly close the bar down.
The service didnt improve, either. 
When serving the salad, the waitresses 
forgot one person at our table.
The food wasnt much better. The salad 
was nicely arranged with a slice of lettuce 
heart, topped with two pieces of canned 
asparagus.
The vegetable consisted of a little sprig 
of broccoli, too small but not overcook
ed like most restaurant food. The potato 
was potentially good with a cheesy topp
ing, but it was burnt on the bottom.
Both main courses were, however, good 
as food served at formals go. The first 
choice, scrod, was moist and flaky with 
a light breading. The chicken, the other 
choice, was also juicy. The egg-coating on 
the fowl added something a little dif
ferent, the complete chicken effect as 
one diner put it.
continued on pege 12

---------------------------------------------------

The National Bureau of Standards, Department of Commerce 
has one of the world's largest laboratories for research in
ROBOTICS
There are currently senior positions available at grades 13, 14 and 15 
in Computer Science, Electronics Engineering, and Mechanical
Engineering. Salaries are competitive and based on professional
experience and accomplishments. ($37,599 - $67,940)
These positions are part of the NBS team working 
intelligent and flexible robots for a wide variety of 
Some specific tasks are:
to implement 
applications.
- design of new sensor systems
- sensory processing systems
- world modeling databases
- world model interpretation
- robot manipulators
- robotic assembly
- CAD directed assembly
- real-time control systems
- artificial intelligence algorithms for robotics
- robot programming languages
- robot simulation including real-time graphics
- specific robot applications including: military, manufacturing, 
construction, and space
- robot performance enhancement
- robot standards
Our program in robotics already has had significant impact on 
the U.S. application of robots. We have the best equipment for 
research in robotics, including a full scale experimental factory 
dedicated to research in industrial automation. If you would like to 
be part of this major effort to help revitalize U.S. industry, please 
contact Dr. Leonard S. Haynes for technical information at this number 
301-921-2381 or send a comprehensive resume to:
Rosemary Hormuth
Room A-123, Admin. Bldg.
National Bureau of Standards 
Gaithersburg, MD 20899 
(301) 921-3711
U.S. Citizenship is required.
The National Bureau of Standards is an 
Equal Employment/Affirmative Action Employer.
PMS
(Pre-Menstrual Syndrome)
WORKSHOP
This now widely recognized problem affects many wornenl causing them to experience fatigue, headaches, severe physica discomfort, food cravings, irritability, depression or anxiet before their periods. If you feel you suffer from PMS, we mail be of help. Join us Wednesday evening, March 13, from 7-.j in Skibo Room 11.
Share your experience with others who understand 
Learn more effective ways of managing your symptoms 
Be informed about the newest advances in treating Pi
Discussion will be led by Lynn Reid, a physicians assista from Pittsburgh Community Health Services.
This program is being sponsored jointly by the Counseling and Hem Centers, divisions of Student Affairs.
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
PRECISION 
HAIRCUT 
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT 
BLOW STYLE)
1
A
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
$25.00
COLOR
tS
I*
WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
REASONABLE RENTAL RATES! 
THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND! 
"THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.! 
WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED! 
YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!W? never met a head we didn't like
The management invites the Faculty 
Merfibers, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and .inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
We are open for your viewing seven days 
a week. PLEASE call H. M. Harrity for 
YOUR appointment, anytime. DIAL 
621-4030. We'll see YOU at "THE 
FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
. . .With apologies to Will Rogers, 
the great American humorist.
The point we're trying to make, 
of course, is that many hair
cutters only see hair when they 
look at a head.
At Great "X", we look at the 
whole head as well as the hair. 
We also listen to what the head 
says, how he or she pictures him
Mon, Tues, Wed 107 
Thurs, Fri 109 
Sat 96
self or. herself after the haircut.
Our haircutters are trained to put 
it all together ... so that the 
final product is more than just an 
example of expert haircutting .
but a perfect representation of 
who you want to be.
Every head's a winner, when it 
heads for.. .
OW DSSing1985
EWCC7HTMRS.PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
237 Atwood So
Across the *treCt 
the Oakland P<*

---------------------------------------------------

March 12, 1985The TartanPage 9
athie balks at Reagan financial aid cuts
v KATHY MURTAUGH
artan Staffwriter
The availability of student aid has 
nabled many private colleges with 
mited resources to recruit low income 
udents in the past. Statistics indicate that 
vailable aid is correlated with increased 
nrollment nationwide. President 
eagans recent proposed cuts, however, 
discourage many from postcondary education by severely limiting 
rsons receiving aid.
Reagans proposal would deny 
uaranteed Student Loans to students 
hose family income is greater than
32.000 a year. Grants, federally 
uaranteed loans, and work study pro
rams would be limited to those students 
rhose family income is less than
25.000 a year.
A $4000 freeze would be placed on 
nyone receiving aid, although students 
)uld receive up to $4000 a year more in 
lbsidized loans at 12 percent interest. 
Secretary of Education Bennet supports 
eagans proposal and points out the 
^uses of the system. Accordingly, 13,000 
udents from families with incomes exceding 100,000 a year are receiving aid. 
jit Walter Cathie, Associate Viceesident for Financial Resources at 
rnegie-Mellon University, feels these 
uses could be detected properly, allowig the system to help those who have 
ed.
One particular abuse is the use of tax 
elters to lower adjusted gross income. 
:cording to Cathie, the ERISA act of 
'74 allows people to shelter rather large 
>rtions of their income. A person mak
ing $75,000 a year could shelter $14,000 
a year, Cathie states. Approximately 47 
percent of aid applicants have this plan.
Public institutions dont give a damn 
about this. But here at Carnegie-Mellon, 
we re particular. The major portion of aid 
is our own money, states Cathie. He 
points out cases where, through the use 
of tax shelters, families have declared 
negative incomes and received large aid 
packages.
But Cathie prides himself on CarnegieMellons financial aid staff. He states, 
Our administrative costs are high but we 
would rather have a confident staff that 
can catch these abuses on applications. 
He adds, What we insure is that well get 
the money distributed as equally as possi
ble.
Another abuse is the rising number of 
students claiming themselves in
dependents. The Department of Educa
tion reported that for the first time the 
number of independent or selfsupporting applicants in the Pell program 
has reached over 50 percent (50.8). Cathie 
states many applicants lie on applications, 
but Pell has no way to prove intent. 
Carnegie-Mellon will catch up to you, 
continues Cathie. We require that you 
tell us the truth under the law.
Pell also has no return provision, accor
ding to Cathie. Students who join ROTC 
on full scholarship are not required to 
return their grant. Cathie states, Every 
student in ROTC should return his grant 
so that this money could be 
redistributed.
Cathie believes that there should be a 
needs test based on circumstances as op
posed to the bottom line adjusted gross 
income. Applicants claiming incomes 
less than 30,000 shouldnt automatically 
receive aid, according to Cathie. He adds 
that 57 percent of students at CarnegieMellon will lose loans under the proposal.
David Simmons, a junior at CMU, 
states, My parents are struggling to send
me here. If aid is cut, they will be re
quired to make severe sacrifices, and I 
wont allow that  so I wont be back. 
Neil Greenblum, a CMU sophomore, has 
the same fear. He says, Because I live in 
New Jersey, Im going to have a lot of 
trouble coming back if aid is cut, and
continued on page 12
WHAT IS LACKING IN CONTEMPORARY 
EDUCATION?
'UESTIONS RAISED BY THE TEACHINGS OF 
URDJIEFF
iarch15read ing
First Unitarian Church
7;30 discussionSchweitzer rm 
morewood &ellsworth ve
um
Join the New Exciting Innovating
Secretarial Travel Club*
Earn a FREE Vacation 
While You Are Working
*No Membership Fee 
For Information Call
3955 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
University Travel Service, Inc.
Nationwide USA:
Pennsylvania:
Pittsburgh:
(800) 245-6203 
(000) 242-1742 
(412) 621-3492 
Ext 7577
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
 student discount available
 easily accessible by bus from OMU
239 Fourth Ave., Suite 217, Downtown MasterCard, Visa accepted
281-4770Call appointment
Study Abroad Through Syracuse University.
Study in one of SU's 27 academic programs conducted in 
England, France, Italy, Spain, and other locations. Grants are 
available for a semester, a year, or a summer of study abroad.
SEND TODAY FOR OUR CATALOG!
Name ______,_____ . '  " . ____f ______. 
Address _____ ______________ . ,  .  _________>
City _State-Zip
dipo
Phone
School
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD 119 Euclid Avenue. Syracuse New York 13210 (313) 4233471 Q / /

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanMarch 12, 1985
Professor explains tension in Ireland
By KATHY MURTAUGHTartan Staffwriter
The violent conflict between Irish 
Catholics and Protestants has recently 
escalated, with profound resentment 
originating with Norman invasions of 
Ireland in the year 1169- Last week the Irish 
Republican Army slaughtered eight more 
Irishmen. According to David Miller, pro
fessor of history at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, the discord results from more 
than religious strife.
The ultimate restraint on efforts to 
reconcile the two parties, however, is the 
deep-seated divide between Catholics and 
Protestants. Catholics are anti-Protestant 
because the Protestants conquered them, 
took their lands and imposed unfair 
discrimination in public institutions. Pro
testants are anti-Catholic out of fear that 
one day the Catholics will rise up and 
conquer them in return.
When the British began to settle 
Ireland, it was easy to tell the two groups 
apart. According to Miller, however, the 
British soon developed an Irish accent 
and the Irish began to speak English. As 
the influx of British Protestants con
tinued, conflicting loyalties caused dishar
mony within the Emerald Isle.
According to Miller, Northern Irish con
tinued to expect that any day there would 
be Irish unity, but this didnt happen 
because British Protestants wouldnt cut 
ties with Britain.
They have two different unity con
cepts  the Protestants favoring British 
rule and the Irish Catholics remaining 
loyal to independant Ireland, states Miller. 
The Southern Irish desire geographical 
unity under the government of Dublin. 
This is simply not going to happen.
After the British emigrated to Ireland
and imposed rule, a strong sense of na
tionalism was aroused in Catholics. As a 
result, the southern-Irish achieved in
dependence in the early nineteenth cen
tury. According to Miller, present-day 
troubles have left many of the southern 
Irish uncertain whether or not they want 
Northern Ireland as part of their country 
right now.
Miller also points to the geographic 
location of Dublin as significant to this 
sense of nationalism. Most Irish in the 
south have relatives and friends in Dublin 
which is located in the North, Miller 
states. Aside from this, Dublin is a major 
cultural capital and is largely associated 
with Irish heritage, said Miller.
Polls show that approximately onethird of the Catholics actually prefer the 
practical benefits of remaining in the 
United Kingdom, states Miller. But he 
points to this strong sense of nationalism 
as being the cause of resistance on the 
part of the other two-thirds.
If you were a committed nationalist, 
these benefits wouldnt matter, Miller 
adds, They believe that the Protestants 
are foreigners and have no right to govern 
them.
Miller compares the situation to the ex
pulsion of American Indians from their 
homelands. In politics one has to make 
compromises. There will always be some 
group that doesnt come out ahead. Ac
cording to Miller, it is the same as if Mex
ico demanded English Texas back. They 
couldnt do it even if Chicano Texans 
made up 50% of the population, states 
Miller.
From a historical perspective we are 
talking about a relatively short time, states 
Miller. There is a possibility that there 
will be a Catholic majority in Northern
photo by Olve Peerser, |
Professor David Miller feels Irish political unity improbable in the near future.
Ireland within the next 100 years, but 
definitely not in the short run.
While Miller states no favoritism on 
either side of the issue, he does feel that 
a Catholic majority in Northern Ireland 
is unlikely to happen. Increasingly, Nor
thern Ireland will be more absorbed i 
the United Kingdom although English! 
politicians will never admit that this is 
happening, Miller predicts. He adds 
Almost every other solution has beenj 
tried or overwhelminglv rejected.
Wouldn't you have liked to know your professor 
couldn't speak English before you took the 
course??!!
We are compiling a Student Handbook of professors at CMU during the 
84/85 academic year. Help us help you next semester by submitting any 
information about any teacher you have had, good or bad...and give next 
year's class a break. Submit all opinions via campus mail to Academic 
Affairs Committee c/o Skibo Information Desk, or to the Student Senate
office.
funded by your activitiesfee

---------------------------------------------------

March 12, 1985The TartanPage 11
Signals may be pleas for help
continued from page 7
Both the person who suddenly becomes 
withdrawn and aloof and the normally 
reserved person who starts seeking thrills 
and new experiences might be consider
ing suicide. Such changes are particular
ly dangerous when they follow the loss 
or disturbance in the life situation.
Behavioral changes are often an 
outgrowth of depression. Depression is 
often characterized by sleeping distur
bances, changes in eating habits, anxiety( a ten
dency to be uncommunicative and a per
vasive sense of hopelessness and gloom. 
Many young people with depression have 
trouble concentrating on their school 
work, drop out of clubs and organiza
tions, and begin to shun their friends.
Paradoxically, depression can be most 
dangerous when it seems to be getting 
better. As the symptoms subside and the 
person begins to take interest once again 
in activities and friends, the risk of suicide 
may be greater than ever. The reason is 
that deression often dulls the ability to 
act. While in the depths of depression, 
the person may wish to die and may ac
tually plan to end his life, but lacks the 
willpower to do it. As the depression lifts, 
the ability to act returns and suicide plans 
made earlier can now be carried out. Im
provement in depression has fooled 
| m^ny people. It sould not necessarI ilv be interpreted as meaning that so(meone is totally out of danger.
Another kind of behavior common to
I people contemplating suicide is to make 
| final arrangements or to get their affairs 
| in order. In the adults, this often entails 
preparing a will and reviewing insurance
papers. In the young person, it is more 
likely to involve giving away treasured 
personal possessions such a record col
lections or a favorite book.
In the face of these danger signals, it is 
extremely important to remember that 
there is no suicide stereotype. 
Preconceived notions about who might 
or might not commit suicide must be 
pushed to the side. It is time to act.
What You Can Do
So what do you do if someone you 
know appears a high-risk canidate for 
suicide? The best thing to do when so
meone makes suicidal statements is to 
show concern and to ask questions in a 
straightforward and calm manner. Ask 
how serious the intent is. Ask what feel
ings have prompted the desire to suicide. 
Ask about the home situation and rela
tionship with friends. Ask if the person 
has talked with anyone else about suicide. 
Ask if consideration has been given to the 
means of suicide and, if so, if any steps 
have been taken to procure those means, 
such as obtaining a gun or drugs. Ask if 
the person would be interested in speak
ing confidentially with someone who is 
more expert in such problems.
Your questions accomplish three im
portant goals:
1) They show that yo.u are willing to
discuss the subject and that you are not
appalled or disgusted by it.
2) They will open lines of communica
tion, allowing the person to talk about 
the way he feels, which alone may help 
him to feel better and to believe that 
someone will help him.
3) They will help you, and subsequent
ly someone else, to evaluate the 
seriousness of the problem.
In evaluating danger, be aware that as 
a general rule, the more specific the plan, 
the greater and more imminent the 
danger. If detailed plans have been made 
and the means of suidide obtained, the 
danger is not only greatit is immediate! 
This does not mean that someone with 
only vague suicidal notions should not be 
taken seriously; he or she may be in the 
early stages of planning, or indeed the act 
may be carried out without the carefully 
detailed plans that characterize many 
suicides.
What You Shouldnt Do
As important as what to do, there are 
also a few guidelines of what not to do. 
If someone tells you that he is 
thinking of ending his life, dont 
refuse to talk about it; this would only 
frustrate the attempt at communication.
Many people fear that talking about 
suicide may actually encourage the per
son to do it. Years of experience, as well 
as the facts, show that the opposite is 
true. A frank and honest discussion is not 
going to push someone over the edge. On 
the contrary, it is an important first step 
toward suicide prevention.
Dont offer platitudes or simple 
answers to serious problems. Dont 
moralize or preach. Dont criticize or 
argue. Dont minimize what the person 
says. Telling the potential suicide victim 
to think about how much better you 
have it than most people or that you 
should be thankful for how lucky you
are only enhances the feeling of guilt 
that many suicidal people already have 
and makes them feel even more worthless 
and hopeless.
Your efforts in helping the suicidal per
son, whether it is your child, one of his 
or her friends, or one of your own 
friends, and in making sure that profes
sional help is obtained, may very likely 
save a life. The common belief that 
suicide prevention is only temporary and 
that the person will eventually take his or 
her life anyway is just another myth. Peo
ple have a will to live, a will that can once 
again become dominant. With proper 
guidance or treatment, the hopelessness 
disappears and the potential suicide vic
tim can be restored to a full and active 
life.
And as I sat there in the hospital, I real
ized that I was one of the lucky ones. I 
had been given a second chance to help 
my friend. I was going to see that I used it.
Time to... 
Care More, 
Share More
Unibed W<ay
THE BAGPIPES ARE 
COMING 
THE BAGPIPES ARE 
COMING
WE ARE RE-FORMING 
THE CMU PIPE BAND.
(IF THIS PERKS UP YOUR EARS 
OR IF YOU WANT TO HELP, 
PLEASE CONTACT THE NEW 
DIRECTOR JAMES MclNTOSH 
AT 241-1002)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanMarch 12, 1985
continued from page 7
have skipped it. Vanilla ice cream that has 
started to melt, then been refrozen doesnt 
thrill me.
The only really positive thing the Park 
Schenley provided was the bartender. 
Although he followed his orders strictly 
as he should, carding every customer, he 
was very professional about the whole
disturbance caused by the manager 
When asked for drinks he didnt 
readily available, he went out 
to get the necessary ingredients.
All in all, it was a very pleasant even
ing. Unfortunately, the crowd had to have 
fun in spite of the expensive Park 
Schenely.
CAPRI PIZZA
Where Today... 
... Tomorrow 
And Every Day... 
You set the Best Pizza in Oakland at the Best Price!
Eat-In or Delivered
LARGE PIZZA and 
2 LITERS OF PEPSI!!
UNBELIEVABLE!!
(EOCraWIXIQOOOOOOOOOOOOO^
?OAKLANDS FINEST NIGHTCLUB*
FORCES STUDIO
tlCANTIC VIDEO SCREEN ENTERTAINMENT*
o Open Tuesday - Sunday 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.*
oooooaxxxxxxxxoooooc^
3415 FORCES AYE. PGH. PA. 15213 
PHONE 681-2202
OUR SAMI FAMOUS SPECIAL 
WITH NOW AN EVEN GREATER 
SAVINGS TO YOU!!
Whn You'r* Onto A Good Thing, Stick With It!!
Cathie predicts...
Quality of education in danger of erosion
Park Schenley fails 
with food and servi
continued from page 9
adds, One great thing about this school 
is that they admit students need-blind. 
Cathie points out out-of-state students 
do cause a reduction in state aid funds. 
He states, Its costing us over $1000 for 
each out-of-state student, but adds, We 
want the out-of-state stildents, however, 
because they will be the benefactors of 
a growing school.
If federal aid is cut, many colleges will 
eliminate their need-blind policies. Three 
of the eight Ivy League schools have 
eliminated this policy in the last two 
years. Brown will admit wait listed 
students based on ability to pay. Dart
mouth accepts a limited number of 
students under the need-blind policy. 
Cornell will drop its full need-blind policy 
for the coming year.
Cathie hopes it never comes down to 
such drastic measures at CMU. Rick
Lavelle states, The middle class will once 
again be forced to-shoulder the burden. 
Chris Haupt, a freshman, agrees, The 
middle class will be hit pretty hard by the
cuts.
Cathie believes Carnegie-Mellon would 
turn to alumni for extra money. Other 
alternatives such as overcrowded 
classrooms, acceptance based on ability 
to pay, and acceptance based 
demographic location all tend to erode 
the quality of higher education. Cathie 
states, Maybe we would draw on the 
dowment.
He predicts, however, that the cuts in 
the long term will undermine the quality 
of education and professionals in 
America. Public schools will fill up to 
gross capacity. Chatham and other small 
private institutions will shut down com
pletely. And CMU will get merely the ri< 
spill over.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Ladyhawke is an old-fashioned fairy tale
Always together, yet eternally aparta
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Staffwriter
Always together, yet eternally apart is 
the catch phrase from the new movie 
ladyhawke, and these words seem to 
signify the way this movie goes  the 
movie keeps you interested but it never 
grabs you and falls just a little short in the 
end. Ladyhawke is a pleasant movie, but 
its jigsaw puzzle story prevents it from 
becoming a captivating film.
The story behind Ladyhawke is simple 
. two lovers are eternally cursed by a 
jealous villain. Etienne Navarre (Rutger 
Hauer  the bad guy in Blade Runner) 
is a handsome knight who is doomed to 
fate of being a human by day and a wolf 
by night; his love Isabeau of Anjou 
Michelle Pfeiffer  the coke addict wife 
f Al Capone in Scarf ace) is doomed to 
n opposite fate  a hawk by day and a 
ery beautiful woman by night.
All this evil is the work of the evil 
ishop of Aquila (John Wood  Tony 
.ward winning actor in Travesties) who 
as made a deal with the devil in exhange for the curse. The bishop rules
over the most terrifying and notorious 
prison in Europe where this all began. 
Only one man has ever escaped from 
these dreaded dungeons, Phillipe Gaston 
(Matthew Broderick  the loveable little 
hacker in War Games). His knack for picking pockets as well as his ability to crawl 
through small crevices has earned him the 
nickname The Mouse. His special talents 
enable Navarre to obtain his revenge on 
the bishop. The rest of the film is 
dedicated to the events surrounding this 
vengeful quest.
Throughout the movie, the director 
tries to capture your interest by inserting 
some action-packed tension scenes. They 
are sufficient to keep our attention, but 
are predictable and really dont give a true 
sense of the lovers anguish. The movie 
also ignores many of the other very im
portant characters and events  we never 
see how terrible the bishop is or how the 
two lovers met. It is this lack of character 
and story development that leaves you 
wanting more from Ladyhawke. The few 
pictures it paints are pretty, the director 
of photography Vittorio Storaro
photo courtesy of Warner Bros. 
A beautiful maiden by night, a graceful hawk by day, Isabeau of Anjou is portrayed 
by Michelle Pfeiffer.
{Apocalypse Now, Last Tango In Paris) 
does a wonderful job of capturing the 
European countryside.
The one saving point of this movie is 
Matthew Broderick, who is a sheer delight 
to watch. I am a very big fan of his work, 
and he again shows that he is a fine actor
The Spectator considers four new plays
y JONATHON STEELE
pecial to The Tartan 
Today, the Spectator will consider both 
he current staged readings of new plays 
n the Studio, and also The Collection stagd in the Rat Trap.
The readings were staged in lieu of the 
raditional New Play Festival, which gave 
ull productions to four plays last year, 
his years takes place over 3 or 4 Sunday 
venings. They are script-in-hand with 
inimal props, and stage directions are 
ead. No lights or sound effects are used. 
Iso, predominatedly non-major actors 
ere used. No programs were distributed.
he Spectator
The first evening consisted of Dennis 
lanuels Cains House directed by Casey 
hilds, Norman Rhodes The Prime Of 
ife directed by Chuck Moore, and Gary 
orporas Erobotics directed by Paul 
ilverman.
Developmental readings like these can 
e very helpful in the playwriting process, 
ewrites can be done during rehearsals, 
nd/or after hearing the play read and see1 a reasonable facsimile on its feet. Work 
n the script then becomes a series of 
teps starting with a first draft, ahd 
pefully leading to a full production, 
he script-in-hand reading is usually a
iddle step on the road to a completed
lay.
The first evening of readings was 
ucessful. Having a goal like this to aim for
is a good stimulus for the writers. The 
Drama Department should consider a 
Festival of Staged Readings of one-acts at 
the end of each semester in addition to 
this eclectic grouping. Also, a weekly 
Cabaret of skits, sketches, musical pieces, 
etc. might be helpful and fun.
Utilizing department actors would be a 
good idea in new play development. It 
would be good for the playwrights and 
the actors to have the experience of work
ing together. No full productions of 
original works have been scheduled as of 
yet this year. The Script-in-Hand Readings 
will be continuing for several more weeks 
on Sunday evenings. Check the bulletin 
board in CFA for more information.
Harold Pinters The Collection was 
staged in the Rat Trap by graduate direc
tor Barbara MacKenzie-Wood. Pinter 
writes in the tradition of Beckett and 
Ionesco, but with an original bent. His 
work is serious and even tragic, but it con
tains much humor and wit. The dialogue 
is sparing, biting and poetic.
David Lockhart, David Gifford, Stanley 
Albers and Lee Ann Buckestein portrayed 
their roles satisfactorily. The Rat Trap was 
an excellent environment for this strange 
enigmatic story of two overlapping 
triangles.
Miss MacKenzie-Wood used the space 
imaginatively and well. The plot was 
clearly delineated, and the minimal set
tings and props were chosen accurately. 
However, the production lacked the 
underlying tension of the subtext and 
therefore did not have the power it should
have. Lights by Rosa Castro were effective. 
Sound by Nancy Blumstein, and the work 
of Scenic Consultant Michael Green were 
helpful.
The Collection was a Special Project, 
and was performed in the Rat Trap 
February 11 & 12.
and his cynical sense of humor lights up 
the screen every time he appears. His lit
tle chats with God while walking through 
the woods are especially humorous. The 
rest of the characters go through this film 
much too seriously, and just dont fit in.
Ladyhawke makes for an enjoyable 
afternoon matinee, but it just doesnt con
tain all the right ingredients to make it a 
great movie. If you are in the mood to be 
amused for 90 minutes, but not swept off 
your feet, then Ladyhawke is the right 
movie for you. Its refreshing to see an 
old-fashioned fairy tale  and Ladyhawke 
is just that. Ladyhawke has bold inten
tions but its poor delivery gives it an ef
fect that doesnt quite live happily ever 
after.
Forbes features 
three student artists
Beggars Opera
The Drama Department will offer 
foe best seats In the house to CMU 
students on its newly erected 
sta0 ,or Productions of 
The Beggars Opera, April 11 to 27.
These seats, located on stage, will 
sell for $2. Regular seating is $7 for 
Musicals. Seats on stage will only be 
sold to CMU students. Tickets are on 
sale, noon to 5 pm beginning March
Par further information contact the 
office at x2407.
On this day in 
Rock and Roll...
In 1969, Simon and Garfunkels 
Mrs. Robinson receives the 
Record of the Year Award in the 
11th Annual Grammy Awards.
Also in 1969, Paul McCartney 
weds Linda Eastman in a private 
ceremony in London.
  
This week in Rock and Roll marks 
the deaths of Tammi Terrell on 
March 16, 1970, and Aaron TBone Walker on March 16, 1975.
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
Special to The Tartan
This weeks opening at the Forbes 
Gallery features work in a variety of media 
by art students Barbara Cooper, Diana 
Ovberg, and Jill Ziccardi. The work of all 
three artists is typified by their energetic 
and active approach to the art form. The 
exhibition opens this evening at 7:00.
Barbara Cooper, a senior in printmaking, exhibits woodcuts, silkscreens, and 
intaglio and litho prints. Coopers style is 
a loose, gestural one which might easily 
be seen as painterly. She is interested in 
expressionism as well as refering to 
something concrete.
Theres a high level of activity when 
I carve, said Cooper, speaking of her 
woodcuts. Its a fast process. Still, I want 
to get the gestures of what Im trying to 
show.
Coopers woodcuts are frequently of 
landscapes derived from photos she has 
taken. With the photos and the wood
cuts, Im trying to understand why I saw 
certain things. I want to figure out what 
certain references mean to me, said 
Cooper.
Im not just mark making, said 
Cooper. My work has to contain 
something you can relate to; its not meant 
to be abstract.
Diana Ovberg, a senior painter, displays 
pen & ink drawings, ceramics, and intaglio 
prints in addition to paintings. Ovbergs 
drawings are figurative while her prints 
and paintings reflect a more abstract 
approach.
Like Cooper, Ovberg takes an energetic 
approach to her work. I think the work 
can be fun and exhausting at the same 
time, said Ovberg. In my ceramic
pieces, I like to examine simple shapes 
and negative space, and I love to see what 
happens with glazes on the surface of the 
piece.
Ovberg is particularly interested in the 
materials in which she works. She fre
quently manipulates colors and surface 
textures to achieve her effect.
When I paint friends or people I know, 
I like to get their personality and mine in
to the painting, said Ovberg. I like to use 
vibrant, non-realistic colors to show that 
energy.
Junior painting and printmaking major 
Jill Ziccardi exhibits black & white photos 
along with her prints and paintings. All 
three media interrelate in the production 
of Ziccardis work.
I take a lot of photos, said Ziccardi. 
I pick out the shapes I like and arrange 
those shapes on the canvas. I never work 
with the figure  my images always come 
from nature. Ziccardis current photos are 
detailed close-ups of plants.
The images Ziccardi paints are large, 
ranging up to 5 Vis  by 7. I view my pain
tings as a glorification of nature because 
theyre so big and vibrant, said Ziccardi. 
The color relationships in Ziccardis work 
are a frequently energetic play between 
vibrant hues of green, violet, and yellow's, 
among others.
I work in a lot of layers, said Ziccar
di. Ill play with the surface textures  
thick versus thin paint, shiny versus flat 
-in addition to setting a color scheme for 
the piece and painting from that.
Cooper, Ovberg, and Zictardi are at the 
Forbes Gallery until March 17. Gallery 
hours are 11:00 to 5:00 Wednesday-Friday, 
and noon to 6:00, Saturday and Sunday.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanMarch 12, 1985
George Gee orchestra swings at Graffiti
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Features Editor
Six years ago George Gee, then a CMU 
student, had a show on WRCT he called 
The Make-Believe Ballroom. Several 
weeks ago Gee brought his Make-Believe 
Ballroom Orchestra, a band Patty An
drews of Andrews Sisters fame called 
solid, swinging, bright (and) freshsounding, to Graffiti, and theyll be at 
Spring Fling March 29.
A lot has happened to Gee in the last 
six years. He kept swinging with the en
couragement of Count Basie. Gee says its 
perseverance that did it. Now hes made 
it. Hes done the New York scene, cut his 
first album and received the praises of 
Don Pardo and Gary Hart.
But before Graffiti I wasnt convinced. 
The Make-Believe Ballroom Orchestra 
plays swing, a brand of music that hasnt 
been popular in over forty years. Sure, Id 
heard some of the big band sound at my 
grand parents house, and it sounded all 
right. However, while waiting at 9:29 for 
the 8:30 show to start, I wondered why 
Id come to hear some former CMU stu
dent lead a band playing ancient tunes.
Finally, the band took the stage, and 
Gee asked the crowd, Okay, Cats. Are 
you ready to swing? I felt like telling him 
Id been ready for an hour.
But the crowd really started getting In 
The Mood, and I loosened up with it. 
Before I knew it, Id figured out that 
wistful look my grandparents get 
whenever they listen to swing.
Its fun music, and Gees band draws the 
audience into the swing. Some of the 
choreography, including some songs in 
which the front section moves left, while 
the back swings right, really electrify the 
crowd.
Gee acts as the essential link between 
audience and band between songs, letting
the crowd in on the smooth and confi 
dent, post WWII attitude.
Most of the cats in attendance dance 
to the beat that resembles rock in soi^ 
w^ays. I even tried the jitterbug Id }earn 
ed for a show about the era. Compare 
to sortie of the dance couples, Leslie (m 
girlfriend) and I were pretty mechanical 
but it was fun, nonetheless.
Walking home, our spirits wen 
boyuant. We laughed and joked and neve 
wanted to be serious again. To visit thi 
1940s was fun. Now if Gee can only lean 
to start his shows on time . . .
WRCT Top 10 Albums
1.The Stranglers
Aural Sculpture
2.The Smiths
Meat is Murder
3.Velvet Underground
V.U.
4.The Fuzztones
Leave Your Mind At Home
5.Husker Du
New Day Rising
6.The Flying Lizards
Top Ten
7.Various ArtistsIntl P E A C E.
Compilation
8.Jeam-Michel Jarre
Zoolook
9.XTC
Wake Up" 7-inch
10.Prime Movers
Matter Of Time
Hewlett displays work of Abe Ajay
By CAROLYN TERNER
Tartan Staffwriter
The current show at the Hewlett 
Gallery at CFA is the work of Abe Ajay, a 
LebaneseAmerican artist who was a con
temporary of the Abstract Expressionists 
who worked in the WPA. Ajays work 
deals with the traditional Modern 
vocabulary, the abstract. However, like 
Mondrain, Ajays work does stem from 
another source: the organization and 
reorganization of geometric form. In this 
show, organized by Hewlett director 
Elaine A. King, a number of different 
stylistic modes are represented, spanning 
two decades. The works represented start 
in the year 1964 and moves to the present. 
Two pieces entitled Triple Play and 
Untitled Relief are the two earliest 
works in the show; they are visually the 
most stark, consisting of pure black and 
red shapes of wood in a rectangular com
position. Ajay consistently works with 
relief; that is, the shallow recession of
depth on a two dimensional surface. This 
makes his work both two-dimensional 
and three-dimensional at the same time.
The work that predominates the show 
is a series of large polyester resin and 
acrylic paintings. The cast resin serves as 
the sculptural element, while bright, high 
intensity colors are painted around the 
central relief structure. I find these pain
tings too overpowering and intense. They 
are difficult to look at, and do not appeal 
to a more subtle aesthetic sensibility.
In the Portal Series, the work scales 
down in size and activity; here the artist 
has chosen to use a more subtle palette, 
playing more with the painted surface and 
allowing some marks to show through. 
These works contain strong references to 
Islamic architecture. Line is again used to 
emphasize the reference to pure 
geometry. These compositions are more 
interesting because they allude to an idea,
or a metaphor. One looks back into the 
Portals and sees more sculptural 
elements, which are more soft, more sub 
tie, more readable as things.
The series of small wood construction 
in the front of the gallery to me are thi 
most successful works in the show. Thi 
beauty of the small, flowery relief that 
gently stained with orange far surpasse 
the stark white, harsh curving surfaces 
the earlier reliefs. The artist has softenei 
into a more gentle, prettier aesthetic.
The watercolor collages also show 
certain gentleness; however I find th 
they too tend to be overcrowded. Ab 
Ajay seems to be a very complex m 
with complicated ideas about the worl 
and its structure. The combining of a 
chitecture, construction, color and reli 
make the works very rich in many d 
ferent elements, producing a variety 
different effects.
Larry & CaroFs Pizza
The best pizza in Oakland
Just got better
Now you can save $L00 on 
your next large New York Style pizza.
HoagiesSpecialty 
Sandwiches
Salads
Fast* free delivery
~iTheNN wss wp arofC ngiire 
-MlUv tyl, UP ,tb Uvuy1UP,
YOURSELF AS A COUPON HOLDER WHEN PLACING 
ORDER.
256 2kIBkm
Offer Good 3^85 to 3^85
Larry & Carols Pizza 
410 Semple St.
| 687-1189
j PC, dm ki srvderiro nirr 
chD6 DpP la aD hD6y/PtAu
$1.00 OFF ON LARGE Pl2ZA. 
-MlUv tyl, UP ,tb Uvuy1UP,
YOURSELF AS A COUPON HOLDER WHEN PLACING 
ORDER256 2kIBkm
Offer good 3^0/85 to 346/65

---------------------------------------------------

March 12, 1985The TartanPage 15
Five current album releases from new and old
By MARK ISKOWITZ
Special to The Tartan
1. The BlastersHard Line
(Slash/Warner Bros.)
The Blasters fourth album extends the 
sphere of the L.A. bands sound to in
clude, not just rockabilly and blues, but 
also back hills country, gospel, and 
zydeco music. Credit Dave and Phil Alvin 
for possessing the extraordinary versatility 
to pull it off. Here is a seasoned bunch 
which refuses to cling to safe formulas. In
fact, to help execute their ambitious 
changes, they have enlisted the 
songwriting services of Xsjohn doe and 
an amazing crooning chorus called The 
Jordanaires. The band seems more at ease 
and natural than ever. As they declare in 
Trouble Bound, There's a demon deep 
inside of me/Sometimes I let the old boy 
run free."
2. Run-D.M.C.King Of Rock (Profile)
There are so many wildly inspired rap 
lines on this record that it requires intense
concentration to catch them all. What a 
pleasure! Each of the raps was finalized by 
a different mixer, giving each special 
distinction. The LP features one of the 
most priceless moments in recording 
history, the teaming of the NY street rap
pers with the Jamaican king of the 
microphone stand, Yellowman. Aside 
from metallic guitar and some drum pro
gramming, all the music flows inex
plicably from Jam-Master Js turntables. 
Superhuman sound manipulation thats
Faculty member forms theatre company
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Staffwriter
The former Pittsburgh Laboratory 
Theaters Associate Artistic Director Mat
thew Vaky has started a new company 
called First Step, which will hold perfor
mances in the basement of the Church of 
the Redeemeer on Forbes Avenue in 
Squirrel Hill.
First Step is a unique organization in
that all its productions will be dedicated 
to pressing political issues and each per
formance will focus on a different con
cern of the community. Moreover, all pro
ceeds will be donated to the appropriate 
charity.
Under the direction of Matthew Vaky, 
the group of artists first performance, 
Scenes from Sowetto and Other Plays of 
Oppression will concentrate on the pro
blems of apartheid in Africa along with a 
condemnation of policy there. The com
pany will donate proceeds from the pro
duction to Amnesty International, the 
human rights organization dedicated to 
ending human rights abuses.
Scenes from Sowetto and Other Plays 
of Oppression features Lamont Arnold 
and Gary English and is directed by Mat
thew Vaky, a professor of drama at CMU, 
who has directed such plays as The Com
edy of Errors, A Lesson from Aloes, Mass 
Appeal, Landscape of the Body, and 
Catch-22.
The dates for the first are as follows: 
Thursday-Saturday March 7-9 
March 14-16
Free parking can be found in the Church 
of the Redeemers parking lot.
First Step would like to inform and 
enlighten the public as to the problems 
existing around the world. Awareness and 
continued understanding are the groups 
main goals. However, the shows will be 
more than just informative. Above all, 
they will be good theater performed by 
enthusiastic artists dedicated to political 
theater.
scratchin for the nation.
3. The Kane GangThe Bad And 
Lowdown World Of The Kane Gang (Kit
chenware UK)
This exciting British import debut fuses 
soul, funk, and blues, owing much to 
James Brown and George Clinton. Having 
spawned three singles before its release 
and one since, the album contains boun
cy, accessible pop tunes instilled with rare 
working-class optimism. Martin Brammer 
and David Brewis comprise the brains 
behind such uplifting songs as 
Smalltown Creed and Gun Law. 
American labels are currently considering 
whether this unique brand of British 
should would do well over here.
4. Tupelo Chain SexSpot The Dif
ference (Selma)
Limey Dave, Tupelo Joe, and Sugarcane 
Harris are just three of the weirdos 
responsible for one of the most refreshing 
and original slices of vinyl to be released 
this year. Amazing stories of folks like 
Willis The Weeper and Dr. Nightcall swing 
and rock. Imagine a jazz musical base with 
psych, hardcore, and ska added on top. 
Nothing in our pop culture is sacred, not 
even Bernsteins West Side Story, from 
which America is brutally lampooned.
5. Chet AtkinsStay Tuned (Columbia)
Arguably one of the most revered and
influential guitarists of all time, Chet 
Atkins holds a musical summit with those 
he has taught. over the years. Mark 
Knopfler, George Benson, and Earl Klugh 
head an impressive list of indebted artists 
who duet with or support Atkins on 
original and cover material spanning the 
pop, jazz, country, and soul genres. It is 
a rare treat to hear teacher and students 
playing so effortlessly together, each bor
rowing from the other.
M I1 U I1 u
yay
FRESHMEN ACT NOW
Three Year - Full Tuition 
Scholarships From
CMU ARMY ROTC
APPLICATION:
ELIGIBILITY:
BENEFITS:
Deadline is 12 April 1985.
No obligation incurred by applying.
Scholarship starts with fall semester.
2.5 or better, in required disciplines.
Full time student.
Be less than 25 years of age at graduation. 
Current participation not required.
SELECTION: Based primarily on evaluation of academic
achievement, leadership potential and degree 
of success in college. CMU historically has 
over 70% of applicants as winners.
Pays all tuition costs, fees, fixed rate on 
books and supplies and provides $100 per 
month in school financial assistance (for up to 
10 months each year the scholarship is in 
effect).
For further information, contact 
Captain Perry Colvin, Carnegie Mellon University 
at (412) 578-2205. .
or visit our office at Margaret Morrison Hall, 
2nd basement
1
Looking for Romance...?!
Sign up for
THE
DATING
GAME
Spring Carnival 
April 18 
IN THE TENTIts free!
SDC mailbox 
Skibo Info Desk 
Return by March 18

---------------------------------------------------

FINALS
CARNESIE-HELLON UNIVERSITT 
Final Examination Policy and Schedule
Offica of the Registrar Spring 1984-85
POLICY
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of final examinations for the Undergraduate courses:
1. all final exams shall t>e given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used forexam purposes of any kind;
3. faculty shall not exert or submit to pressures to move an exam so that people can leave earlier.
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given finals day; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving conflicts;
5. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. take-home final exams shall be given for any 24-hour period of thestudent's choosing during the final exam period.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03121MODERN BIOLOGTTHUMAT95:30-8:30PMDH221003122ORGAN ISMIC BOTANHONHAT68:30-11:30AMDH111203240CELL BIOLOGTTUEHAT71:00-4:00PHDH111203350DEVELOPHNTL BIOLOGTFRIHAT35:30-8:30PHDH210503432BIOCHEHISTRT IIFRIMAT31:00-4:00PHDH111203439STRUCTURL BIOPHTSICSFRIHAT108: 30-11:30AHSH22003441MOLEC BIO PROKARTOTEMONMAT65: 30-8:30PMSH125
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06101INTRO TOCHEM ENGRMONMAY61:00-4tOOPHWEH750006152PRINC OFFLUID HECHWEDHAT81:00-4:00PHPH225C06202UNIT OPERATIONSCH ETUEMAT78:30-11:30AMDH111206309PHT CHEHCOLLDSSURFFRIMAT108: 30-11:30AHADAHSON06707PHTS CHHCOLL tSURFFRIHAT108: 30-11:30AMADAHSON06815SP TP ADPR STNENGRMONNAT65:30-8:30PHDH2200
CHEMISTRY
09104CH ASP ORO BIOCH MTLWEDHAT8It00-4:00PMDH11120910SDTNAH1CS & EQUILIBHONHAT61:00-4:00PMDH221009106BONDING STRUCT PRINCTHUHAT98:30-ll:30AHDH231509117ORGANIC CHEMISTRT 1FRIHAT108:30-11:30AMWEH750009142PHYSCL CHEMISTRY IHONHAT65:30-8:30PMWEH542709218ORGANIC CHEMISTRT IIFRIHAT108:30-11:30AHDH1U2
09222USE OF CHEMICAL LITWEDHAT85:30-81 30PMDH212209244PHYSCL CHEHISTRT IIITUEMAT75i30-8 30PHMH10309248INORGANIC CHEHISTRTHONHAT61:00-4:00PMWEH540309752HO RES NHR BCHH BPHTFRIHAT101:00-4:00PMDH2122
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12208DTNAHICSTUEHAT751308130PMPH19A12315MATERIALSTUEHAT78: 30-11130AHPH225C12325SOIL MECHANICSHONHAT65:30-8:30PHPH2012604STSTEMS ENGR IIFRIHAI35: 30-8:30PHPH123B. PH2112621STRUCTURAL HECH IIFRIHAT108:30-ll:30AHSH21212632WATER RESOURCES ENGRWEDMAT81:00-4:00PMPH125C12635ENVRN ENG WTR/WSTWTRTUEMAT7Ii00-4:00PHPH107B12637PRB ENGR PROJ EVALUAHONMAT68:30-11:30AHPH 2112704RELIABLTT RISK ANALTUEMAT75:30-830PMPH123B12743EXPERT STSTHS IN C EWEDHAT85:30-8:30PMHH B13112756STBLTT PHENOH HCHNCSHONHAT68: 30-11:30AHPH20
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15118INTRO TO COHPUTING CS FRIHAT101:00-4:OOPHWEH542715200SURV PRGMHG HTH APPLFRIHAT101:00-4:00 PHADAMSON15211FUND STR COHP SCI ITHUHAT98:30-11: 30AHCH221G15212FUND STR COHP SCI IIFRIHAT108:30-11: 30AHDH2210, 121215312CMPRTV PRGRMNG LANGFRIHAT1081 30-11: 30AHHH10315382ARTFCL INT VISN/HOTNTUEHAT75:30-8:30PHDH111215411COHPILER DESIGNHONHAT61:00-4:OOPMDH111215413SOFTWARE ENGR HTHOSFRIHAT38:30-11: 30AHWEH542715453FRHL LANG 6 AUTOHATAFRIHAT101:00-4:OOPHWEH540315462COMPUTER GRAPHICSWEDHAT88:30-11: 30AMSH125
ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING
18100 FNDHNTLS ELEC ENGR FRI MAT 10 8:30-ll:30AH HH B103, B131.8102 ELECTRNC CIRCUITS I WED HAY 8 1:00-4:00PH HH103, MM1418131 DIGITAL STSTEMS HON MAY 6 5:30-8:30PM PH100. ADAMSON18133 INTRO TO DIGITAL SIS FRI MAY 10 1:00-4:00PN DH2210, WEH75O018218 LINEAR SYSTEMS ANAL FRI HAY 3 8:30-ll:30AH PH10018222 ANAL DES DIGTL CIRC WED HAY 8 5:30-8:30PM WEH7500, SH125182 36 INTRO SOL ST ELCTRNC MON MAY 6 1:00-4:00PM DH121218304 FLDS WAVES TRN LINES FRI MAT 10 8:30-ll:30AH SH206
18341ELECTROHECHANICSTUEHAY71:00-4:OOPHSH21218349CONCUR REAL-TIHE STSTUEHAT78: 30-11:30AHWEH750018742CHPTR STR PERF EVALUFRIHAT38i30-ll:30AHPH 2018768DGTL SIGNAL PROC IITUEHAT78:30-11:30AMSH32418846INTRO TO VLSI STSTHSWEDHAT85: 30-8:30PHSH21218858ROBOTICSHONHAT61:00-4:OOPHWEH5427
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC P0LIC
19319LAW AND THE ENGINEE"TUEHAT75i30-8:30PHSH125HATHEHATICS
21111CALCULUS I (HfcSS)TUEHAT75:30-8:30PHHH B10321112CALCULUS II (HtSS)WEDHAT88:30-11:30AMDH2315.121221121CALCULUS IWEDHAT88: 30-11:30AHDH111221122CALCULUS  LIN ALGWEDHAT81:00-4:OOPHDH2210,2315.SH1252112701SCR HATH CHPTR SCITUEHAT751 30-8  30PHDH2315.2210,121221257OPTHZTN SOC SCI ITUEHAT71:00-4:OOPHDH121221258OPTHZTN SOC SCI IIFRIHAT35:30-8:30PHDH2315.221021259CALCULUS IN THREE DMFRIHAT101:00-4:OOPMDH2315.1212,111221260DIFFERENTL EQUATIONSWEDMAT88:3Q-11:30AHHH103, :HH1421261ELEMENTS OF ANALTSISWEDHAT81:00-4:OOPMPH 10021262HTHDS APPL MATH IIWEDKAT88:30-11:30AHDH2210,PH 10021292OPERATIONS RSCH IWEDHAT85:30-8:30PMDH2315.1212,111221301COMBINATORICSTUEKAT78:30-11:30AHPH 10021341LINEAR ALGEBRATHUHAT98:30-11:30AMHH B103. B13121369NUMERICAL METHODSTUEHAT75:30-8:30PMPH10021473ALGEBRAIC STRUCTURESWEDHAT81:00-4:OOPMDH121221476ORD DIFF EQUATIONSFRIHAT38: 30-11:30AHWEH642321484APPLIED GRAPH THEORTFRIKAT35:30-8:30PHPH10021485MATHEMATICAL MODELSTHUHAT95:30-8:30PHDH231521495TH ERMODT N AHICSTUEHAT78: 30-11:30AHWEH6423
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
24112FLUID HECHANICSWEDHAT81:00-4:OOPHHH B103i, B131
24121THERHODTNAHICS IHONMAT65:30-8:30PMKHB103,Bi31
24202HECH DFRHBL SOLIDSFRIKAT38:30-11:30AMKHB103,B131
24203STRESS ANALTSISTUEMAT78:30-11:30AMHH B103,, B131
24215POTENTL FLOW AERODTNFRIMAT35:30-8:30PMSH12524224THERHAL STSTEMS ANALFRIMAT108:30-11:30AMSH422
24225DIRECT ENERGT CNVRSNFRIMAT31:00-4:OOPHSH422
24258NUMERICAL METHODSHONHAT65:30-8:30PHDH1212.111224297ENERGT ENVRNMNTL STSFRIHAT31:00-4:OOPHSH22024703NHRCL HETH HECH ENGRWEDHAT88:30-11:30AMHH B103
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
27131HATERIALS SCIENCEATUEHAT71:00-4:OOPHDH2315BTUEHAT71:00-4:OOPHWEH7500, DH2210
27216TRANSPORT t KINETICSTUEHAT71:00-4:OOPHDH A317
27322PROCESS HETALLURGTFRIHAT31:00-4 :OOPHDH1209
27332PHTSCL HETALLURGT IIWEDHAT85:30-8:30PHWEH5403
27530PHTS HET ALLOT STEELFRIHAT35 30-8:30PMDH A317
27531HATL ASP SEHICND DEVFRIHAY38:30-ll:30AHDH A317
27767SOLID SURFACESFRIHAT31:00-4:OOPHDH A317
27783PHASE TRNS SOLIDS IIFRIHAT38:30-ll:30AHDH1209
PHTSICS
33113PHTS HUSICAL SOUNDTUEMAT78:30-11:30AHWEH5403
33116INTRODUCTORT PHTSICSTUEHAT75:30-8:30PMWEH7500
33121PHTSICS I MECHANICSFRIHAT38:30-11:30AHWEH5403
33122PHTSICS II HT WV OPTFRIHAY38:30-ll:30AHDH2210. 2315. HH103 DH1212. PH225C, ADAHSON
33123PHTSICS III ELEC HAGFRIHAY38:30-11:30AMDH111233124PHTS IV AT PHT ST MTTUEHAT78:30-ll:30AHWEH842733125INTRO TO ASTRONOHTFRIMAT108:30-11:30AHSH12533131PHTSCL HECHANICS IIHONHAT65: 30-8:30PHPH225C33134MODERN PHTSICS IFRIKAT35:30-8:30PHWEH731633438INTRHD ELEC 6 HAG IIWEDHAT85: 30-8:30PHWEH542733444INTRO NUCLEAR PHTSTUEHAT751 30-8130PHWEH842733446WAVE MECHANICSFRIHAT108:30-ll:30AMWEH642333448INTRO SOLID ST PHTSFRIHAT101:00-4:OOPHWEH642333756QUANTUH MECHANICS IIHONMAT68: 30-11:30AHWEH842733760INTRO THEO PHTS IIMONMAT65:30-8:30PMWEH540333761CLASSCL ELCTRODTN ITUEMAT71:00-4:OOPMWEH7316
STATISTICS
36210PRB APP STA HG SS IIHON MAT 6 8:30-11i30AHDH2210, 2315WEH750036212PRB APP ST PH SfcE IIFRI MAT 10 1:00-4:OOPMHH B10336219STAT HTHDS DATA ANALTHU MAT 9 1:00-4:OOPMBH13136226INTRO PROB & STAT IITUE MAT 7 1:00-4:OOPMPH10036326PROB 6 HATH STAT IITUE HAT 7 1:00-4:OOPMBH13136410ELEH APPL PROBABLTTFRI HAT 10 1:00-4:OOPMPH225C
HCS INTERDISCIPLINARI PROGRAH
38770SEL TPCS BIOPHTSICSFRI MAT 10 1:00-$OOPHDH2122CIT INTERDISCIPLINARI PROGRAH
39300ANAL STNTH  EVALUAFRI HAT 10 1:00-4 :OOPHPH100
8IOHEDICAL ENGINEERING
42500PHTSIOLOGTMON MAT 6 1100-4:OOPMWEH8427
ARCHITECTURE
48123STATICSFRI HAT 10 1:00-4:OOPHHM10343125STRUCTURESFRI HAT 10 1:00-4:OOPHHH14

---------------------------------------------------

CHEDULE
46140DESIGNSCIENCE THEOHONMAY65:30-8:30PMMH1446143DESIGNMANAGEMENTFRIHAY38:30-11:30AMMM1448385TPC 20TH-C ARC HS THTUEHAY71:00-4:00PMCFA20648512THEORYII PSY HABITFRIHAY31:00-4:00PMCFA20648516THEORYVI DESIGN MGTFRIMAY38:30-11:30AHCFA211
DESIGN
51102INTRO TO DESIGN IIWED HAY85:30-8:30PMBH36951201DES PRINC HST OF DESFRI MAY38:30-11:30AMSH12551300DESIGN PRINC ANALFRI MAY35:30-8:30PMADAMSON
MUSIC
57109ELEMENTARY THEORYMONHAY61:00-4:00PHCFA16057151HARMONY IFRIMAY31:00-4:00PHCFA16057152HARMONY IIFRIMAY1012:30-2:30PHCFA16057153HARHONY IIIFRIMAY35:30-8:30PHCFA16057*62EURYTHHICS IIMONHAY61 :*00-4:00PKHH11957164EURYTHHICS IVTUEHAY71:00-4:OOPHHH11957176SOLFEGE HUS THEA IIHONHAY61:00-4:OOPHHH12757178SOLFEGE HUS THEA IVWEDHAY88: 30-11:30AHHH12757182SOLFEGE IMONMAY68:30-11:30AMHH12757184SOLFEGE IIIFRIHAY31:00-4:OOPHHH12757203HISTORY OF HUSIC IIFRIHAY102:30-4:30PHCFA16057205HISTORY OF HUSIC IVFRIHAY38: 30-11:30AHCFA16057256TONAL COUNTERPOINTTUEMAY78: 30-10:30AMCFA1605725820TH CENT TECHNIQUESWEDMAY88: 30-11:30AMCFA15757334CHORAL CONDUCTINGMONHAY68:30-ll:30AHACH57348ELCTRN  CHPT HUS IIHONHAY65: 30-8:30PMCFA10757375ELEMENTARY HETHODSFRIMAY38: 30-11:30AMHH11957446BRASS HETHODSMONMAY61:00-4:00PHCFA15757460KYBD HRM  SC RDG IITUEMAY710:30-12:30AHCFA16057926HUSIC ENG CHOR TRADFRIHAY108: 30-11:30AHCFA15757927MUS OF GEO F HANDELWEDHAY85: 30-8:30PHHLLR
HSS INTERDISCIPLINARYPROGRAM
66201LIB ORD FR REV NAPOLWED HAY 85:30-8:30PMPH2166211GOLDEN AGE OF GREECEWED NAY 85:30-8:30PMBH24566315HOLOCAUST TW INT UNDWED HAY 88:30-11:30AMADAMSON
INDUSTRIALADNINISTRATION
70101ELEM INDUSTRL ADMINWEDMAY81:00-4:OOPHMM31070121FINANCIAL ACCOUNTINGABCHONMAY61:00-4:OOPHDH2315DEFHONHAY61:00-4:OOPHPH10070160INTRO GRA CHNCTNS ITUEHAY71:00-4:OOPHBH23170161INTRO GRA CHNCTNS IITUEHAY75: 30-8:30PHPH2070311ORGNZTNL BEHAVIOR IAWEDHAY88:30-11:30AMBH131BWEDHAY88: 30-11:30AMBH23170312ORGNZTNL BEHAVIOR IITUEMAY75:30-8:30PMPH125D70361FOUNDATIONS OF LAWATUEHAY78: 30-11:30AHDH1212BTUEMAY78:30-ll:30AHHH14CTUEHAY78: 30-11:30AMADAMSON70363LAW IN HDRN AMER SOCATUEHAY78:30-11:30AMSH125BTUEHAY78:30-ll:30AHBH23170371PRODUCTION IAMONHAY61:00-4:OOPHPH225CBHONHAY61:00-4:OOPHADAHSONCHONHAY61:00*4:0PHSH125DHONHAY61:00-4:OOPHPH125D70381MARKETING IWEDHAY85:30-8:30PHBH23170391FINANCE IABFRIHAY38: 30-11:30AMWEH7500CFRIHAY38:30-11:30AMPH19ADFRIMAY38: 30-11:30AHPH19C70422COST ACCOUNTINGFRIHAY108: 30-11:30AHPH10070426ADVANCED ACCOUNTINGFRIHAY101:00-4:OOPHBH13170440STRATEGIC MANAGEMENTTUEHAY71:00-4:OOPHPH2070451MGHNT INFORHATN SYSTTUEHAY75:30-8:30PH3H23170481MARKETING IIWEDHAY85: 30-8:30PHPH125C70637CMPTR GRPHCS CHNCTNSWEDHAY81:00-4:OOPHBH13170638ADV COHPUTER GRAPHCSHONHAY68:30-ll:30AHBH131
ECONOHICS
73100PRINC OF ECONOMICSA-FFRIHAY31:00-4:OOPHPH100, DH2315G-HFRIHAY31>00-4:OOPHDH221073250INTERMED HICROECONAFRIHAY31:00-4:OOPHSH125BFRIHAY31:00-4:OOPHWEH7500CFRIHAY31:00-4:OOPHDH1212DFRIHAY31:00-4:OOPHBH13173300INTERNED HACRECONATHUHAY91:00-4:OOPHPH225CBCTHUHAY91:00-4:OOPHDH2210DTHUHAY91:00-4tOOPHBH2 3173340LABOR ECONOHICSWEDHAY81:00-4:OOPHPH19A73358ECON ENVRN NATUR RESWEDHAY88: 30-11:30AHPH225C73360ECONOHETRICSHONHAY65: 30-8:30PHWEH750073370INTERNATL ECONOMICSFRIHAY35: 30-8:30PHPH225C73458HONEY ANI> BANKINGAFRIHAY31:00-4:OOPHBH231BFRIHAY31:00-4:OOPHPH19A
ENGLISH
76101 READING TEXTSAFRIHAY35:30-8:30PMPH226CBFRIHAY35: 30-8:30PHBH235BCFRIHAY35:30-8:30PHBH2 35ADGFRIHAY35:30-8:30PHDH1212EFRIHAY35: 30-8:30PHBH131FFRIHAY35:30-8:30PHPH125BHFRIHAY35: 30-8:30PHBH245IHFRIHAY35: 30-8:30PHWEH7500J-FRIHAY35: 30-8:30PHPH125C
1KFRIMAY35:30-8:30PMPH126A
LFRIHAY35:30-8:30PMBH229B76220MODERN NOVELTUEHAY71:00-4:OOPHBH24576230BBLCL HYTH BKGRD LITTUEHAY75:30-8:30PHADAMSON76241DISCOURSE  HST CHNGWEDMAY81:00-4:OOPHBH235B76242RDG 20TH-CEN CULTUREHONMAY68:30-11:30AHBH229B76244SHAKESPEAREABENONMAY68: 30-11:30AMHH103CHONHAY68: 30-11:30AMPH19ADHONHAY68:30-ll:30AMPH19C76268SURV OF FRHS DRAHAFRIHAY35:30-8:30PHPH226B76320HODERN POETRYNONHAY61:00-4:OOPHBH255A76341SHAKESPEARES CONTEHPTUEHAY75:30-8:30PHBH229B76392STYLISTICSTUEHAY78: 30-11:30AHBH255B76393PRAGHATICSFRIHAY35: 30-8:30PHBH23176421DES OF INSTRUC HATLSFRIHAY35:30-8:30PHBH255A76423HODERNISHFRIHAY108:30-ll:30AHBH255B76441LAWRENCEWEDHAY85:30-8:30PHBH255B76451HWTHRN HELVL $CR WHNHONHAY68:30-11:30AHBH255B76488THEO INVNTN  INTERPWEDHAY88: 30-11:30AMBH255A76741SHAKESPEARES CONTEHPTUEHAY75: 30-8:30PHBH229B76792STYLISTICSTUEHAY78:30-11:30AHBH255B76793PRAGHATICSFRIHAY35: 30-8:30PHBH23176821DES OF INSTRUC HATLSFRIHAY35: 30-8:30PHBH255A76823HODERNISHFRIHAY108: 30-11:30AHBH255B76841LAWRENCEWEDHAY85: 30-8:30PHBH255B76851HWTHRN HELVI SCR WHNHONHAY68: 30-11:30AHBH255B76888THEO INVNTN  INTERPWEDHAY88: 30-11:30AHBH255A
HISTORY
79103AMERICAN CIVILIZATNTUEMAY78:30-11:30AMBH255A79104INTRO TO WORLD HISTTHUHAY91:00-4:OOPHPH125D79110ORIGINS OF HDRN WRLDHONMAY65:30-8:30PHDH2315,79120DEV OF AMER SOCIETYWEDHAY85:30-8:30PKPH100, 179221HSTRY AMER URBN LIFEWEDMAY81:00-4:OOPHPH126C79236WORK AND LEISUREFRIHAY108:30-11:30AMDH231579249SUPREME CRT CONSTITUHONHAY61:00-4:00PMBH254A79301CHPTR APPL IN HUHANWEDHAY88:30-11:30AMBH24579322CRIHE JUSTICE AH HSTTHUHAY91:00-4:00PMBH235A79323PTRN IN AHER THOUGHTWEDHAY88:30-11:30AMPH2279346SOC IHPACT AUTOHATNWEDHAY85:30-8:30PMHH310A79359TECHNLGY  ORGNIZATNHONHAY68 30-11:30AHPH226B79362WAR  REV EUR 20TH-CTHUHAY98:30-11:30AMPH123B79366EUROPE CULT LF STYLEHONHAY65:30-8:30PHPH225B79388WAR AND TECHNOLOGYHONHAY68:30-11:30AMADAMSON
PHILOSOPHY
80100PHILOS METH  MORALSAHONMAY68:30-11:30AMPH123BBHONMAY68:30-11:30AMH255ACHONHAY68:30-11:30AMPH225C80220PHILOS OF SCIENCEHONKAY68:30-11:30AMPH126B80242ETHICAL ISSUES HGMNTFRIHAY35:30-8:30PMPH2280243MARKETS AND ETHICSWEDHAY85:30-8:30PMADAMSON
MODERN LANGUAGE PROGRAM
82102ELEHENTARY FRENCHTUEKAY71:00-4:OOPMPH107A82103PROGRAHKED FRENCHHONHAY61:00-4:OOPHHK10382122ELEMENTARY GERMANTHUHAY95:30-8:30PMPHI 0082123PROGRAMMED GERMANTUEHAY78: 30-11:30AMNM10382142ELEHENTARY SPANISHTUEHAY75:30-8:30PHPH126C82162ELEHENTARY ITALIANWEDHAT81:00-4:OOPMPH226B82172ELEHENTARY JAPANESETUEHAY75:30-8:30PMBH131
82202INT FRENCH CULT SOCATUEHAY7100-4:OOPMPHI268BTUEMAY71:00-4:OOPMPH2282222INT GERHAN CULT SOCWEDMAY88:30-ll:30AMPH226B82242INT SPANISH CULT SOCTUEHAY75 s 30-8:30PMPH2282262INTERNEDIATE ITALIANWEDHAY81:00-4:OOPHPH226B82302FRENCH CONVER  COHPWEDHAT81:00-4:OOPHPH126A
82322GERHAN CONVER  COMPTUEHAY71:00-4:OOPMPH225B82342SPANISH CNVRSATN CMPWEDHAY88:30-ll:30AHPH125B82413CNTMP FRENCH NOVELHONHAY68:30-ll:30AHPH125C
82436STUDIES GERHAN LITHONHAY68:30-11:30AHBH245
PSYCHOLOG!
85100COG PROC THEO  PRACTHUHAY9li00-4:OOPMDH231585101GENERAL PSYCHOLOGYNONHAY68: 30-11:30AMPH10085110INTRO SYHBOLIC PRGRMTHUHAY98: 30-11:30AMBH131
85211COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGYAMONHAY68:30-ll:30AMDH1212BHONHAY68:30-ll:30AHWEHS427
85241INTRO SOCIAL PSYCHFRIHAY38: 30-11:30AMBH23185261ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGYTHUHAY91:00-4:OOPHPH10085310RSCH HTHDS COG PSYCHFRIHAY35:30-8:30PHPH125D
85340RSCH HTHDS SOC PSYCHTUEHAY75:30-8:30PHBH336D85393HUMAN FACTORSFRIHAY31:00-4:OOPMPH225C85423THEO OF COGNTV DEVFRIHAY31:00-4:OOPMBH340A85801ADVANCED SEMINARTUEHAY71:00-4:OOPMBH340A
SOCIAL SCIENCES
88101SOCIAL INFLUENCETUEHAY78: 30-11:30AMDH2210. 231588221POLICY ANALYSIS IIFRIHAY35:30-8:30PMPH19A88223DEC ANAL/DEC SUP SYSTHUKAY98: 30-11:30AHPH 10088241EHPIRCL RSCH HETH IITUEKAY71:00-4:OOPMADAHSON88281SOCIAL SCI THEORY IITUEHAY75:30-8 30PHPH125B88322ELECTORAL PROCESSESHONHAY61:00-4:OOPHPH126A88323LEGISLATIVE PROCESSTUEHAY78: 30-11: 30AHBH13188329DEC HK FOR NTL SECHONKAY65: 30-8:30PHBH23188351EXCHNG  RECIPROCITYWEDHAY81:00-4:OOPHPH125B88367COKPUTRS IN ORGNZTNSWEDHAY88: 30-11:30AHWEH 7500884221SS FOR NATL SEC POLWEDMAY85:30-8:30PMPH225C

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Fling Dinner-Dance
Friday, March 29, 1985; 7-12 PM 
(Dinner 7-8, Dance 9-12) 
Carnegie Music Hall
Featuring:
George Gee and His 
MakeBelieve Ballroom
Orchestra
Sponsored by the H&SS
Deans Office and the
H&SS Student Advisory Council
Tickets for dinner and dance 
(available through March 19) 
Students  $9, Staff  $10. 
Faculty  $11
Tickets for dance only: 
(available through March 29 
Students, Staff and 
Faculty  $2.50
All tickets on sale in 
Baker Hall 161 
(H&SS Academic 
Advisory Center) 
or at Skibo Info. Desk 
ByRRICGBrReI kyeiIks 
afsk WI tfCenrsIB 
WIAcCI odgS,h

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans beaten by Duquesne in semifinal
arly penalty, defensive lapses lead to a 6-1 playoff defeat for CMU
Enet dbw^00rtan Staffwriter
The Tartan hockey season came to an 
rupt end last Wednesday. The Duesne Dukes handed the Ice Tartans their 
cation notice. After the horn sounded 
end play, the Dukes were on top 6-1. 
e game wasnt as close the score makes 
seem.
The Tartans were never really in the 
me. The downfall began just six 
conds into the game. After the officials 
pped play and deliberated for about 
minutes, they handed the Tartans a 
o minute penalty, a bench minor for 
rting the wrong line. They were able to 
the penalty but any sail that they had 
hen they left the dressing room apared to be shredded.
The Dukes opened the scoring at 4:50 
the first period and never looked back, 
ey proceeded to tally four unanswered 
als. CMU goalie Bob Kosakowski could 
t be held to blame for the first period 
s. Three came about as the result of 
Tartans mishandling the puck at 
ter ice. The Dukes were quick to jump 
the loose pucks and capitalized with 
|ree breakaway goals. After the game, 
)z said, It seemed like every time I 
)ked up there was one of them with the 
lek and no defensemen coming back to 
|lp.
The game began to open up on the 
lysical side. The Tartans ended the
shutout bid with a power play goal at 5:22 
of the second period. Bob Koch scored 
the goal on an assist by Eric Spray. For a 
moment after that goal it appeared as 
though they may have mended their sail. 
They held the Dukes scoreless in the 
period until the 14:03 mark. The Dukes 
upped the ante to 5-1 with another 
breakaway goal. This one came while 
shorthanded. The Dukes took the 5-1 lead
into the locker room for two periods.
When the Tartans returned to the ice for 
the final stanza, they showed signs of the 
fight that got them into the playoffs. They 
played hard old-fashioned hockey and 
held the Dukes until 11:24, when Du
quesne scored another shorthanded goal. 
Again the Dukes capitalized on a 
mishandled puck and found no one bet
ween their skater and the Tartan goal.
All that remained of the Tartan season 
were the 3:36 left in the game and 
memories of what might have been. They 
must be given credit for getting as far as 
they did. They far surpassed most out
siders expectations for their play. The 
main question is who will be their net 
minder in the future. Kosakowski was a 
four year starter. That is one major hole 
that may present a problem to fill.
TO wins majors basketball; James MVP
ft CHRISTOPHER D. LEWISMftan Sports Editor
SIM Night was afeaturthe
featured major league contest, ATO 
defeated the Gigolos in overtime 49-48.
Andy James, ATOs leading scorer for 
the season, and the all-school Most
Teresdy had a hat trick to lead the CMU lacrosse club to a 7-4 victory over 
Rents College Friday. Here, Merrice Spencer carries the ball on the muddy 
each had two goals for the Tartans. ________________
Valuable Player, hit a lean-in jumper with 
six seconds left to put the Wolfpack up 
by two. Pete Bennett came down and 
tried to launch a bomb, but Rob 
Fleischman swatted it away.
ATO was led by Brian Dooley with 11 
points, and by the inspiration of the head 
coach John if I hadnt been there Taor
mina, assistant coach Rob Willie Mays, 
and manager Glenn Spud Wohl.
In the intermediate final, The 
Skywalkers defeated a very strong 
Vikaliers team. Paul Guilfoyle and John 
Frost provided a strong one-two punch 
the Walkers, scoring 15 and 13 respec
tively for a 41-26 victory. Scott McKoy 
had 12 to lead the Vikes.
The Skywalkers led by just one at 
halftime, but controlled the boards as 
John Point Blanck pulled down re
bound after rebound.
In the Minors league basketball final, Pi 
Lambda Phi held on to defeat Buster 
Highmen, 37-33. Pilam held a nine-point 
halftime advantage, but twice Buster 
Highmen was able to come back and tie; 
the second time, at 28-28 with only three 
minutes remaining. However, with some 
clutch free throw shooting, Pilam was 
able to rebuild their lead to eight and hold 
on for the victory. Sean McKinley led the 
winners with 11, and Steve Pleva pitched 
for 10. For Pilam, it marks their seventh 
Intramural title this year. Keith Mohamm
ed had 15 points for Buster Highmen.
In other IM news, the IM swim meet is 
Wednesday, March 13 at 4:30 in the CMU 
pool. You can swim as an individual or 
put together a team. Sign up at the meet. 
Call Chris Leech at 681-8564 or check the 
IM board to find the event right for you.
Are you a great shooter? IM foul 
shooting is for you. Shoot 50 shots on
Wednesday and 50 on Thursday. Shoot 
with a team or by yourself. You can shoot 
all 100 shots the same say. Sign up the day 
of the event, March 13 or 14, 4:30-6:00 
p.m.
SAE, TDP, and PhiKap still owe over 100 
dollars to Strand Lanes. SAE owes $191. 
IM bowling will become a memory if 
you dont pay your dues, said IM Direc
tor E.J. Birdy.
DEADLINES: March 14; softball. March 
26; frisbee. March 28; co-rec badminton, 
co-rec table tennis, weightlifting.
With 96 points for the basketball title, 
ATO leads in the race for the All-Sports 
trophy.
Seasons in progress include floor 
hockey, pinochle, backgammon, water 
basketball, individual chess, call pool, and 
table tennis.
It is still not too late to sign up for hand
ball, so get those rosters in.
ALL-SCHOOL TEAM 
IM BASKETBALL
MVP Andy James ATO 
Greg Gabriel Mission 
Rob Kukowski Beta 
Bill Belko 75K 
Bruce Smith Gigolos
Rob Fleischman ATO

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanMarch 12, 1985
Influx of talent should improve CMU baseball
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Trying to rebound off a 1-15 fall season, 
the Carnegie-Mellon Baseball Club is gear
ing up for its spring season with new faces 
and high hopes. Over 50 people are try
ing out, including some that could pro
vide unexpected support to the team.
During that ill-starred fall season, the 
team was beset by a lack of players. They 
usually had only one or two men over the 
starting nine at any game, causing coach 
William Allen to play many players out of 
position.
But the team is much revitalized by an 
influx of manpower lacking in the fall, 
when many members are fighting for the 
Tartans on the gridiron. A case in point 
is Mike Hensel, a quarterback in the fall, 
who is expected to figure prominently in 
coach William Allens plans, whether as 
a pitcher, or helping out in the middle of 
the infield.
One player that Coach Allen did not 
count on was left-handed pitcher Marty 
Thomas. Thomas, a SUPA student who 
did his undergaduate work at Washington 
and Lee, could figure to be a big part of 
the solution to the pitching woes that ail
ed CMU last fall. Hes impressed me alot 
so far in practice, commented Coach 
Allen. First baseman Steve Orlando agrees, 
I see him as one of our main starters.
Aside from Thomas, the Tartans will call
on club vice president Dan Burgundy and 
sophomore Rich Hall to complete the star
ting rotation. Hall served as the primary 
starter in the fall, once pitching 28 innings 
in a one week period, and should fill the 
same role in the spring, albeit with more 
help.
Some of that help should come from 
a stronger bullpen. I see Dom [Colangelo] as the long man out of the 
bullpen, with Johnny [Spanos] as the 
strong finisher, outlined Allen. Colangelo 
was stricken with tendonitis in the fall and 
saw limited action, is now healthy and 
ready to pitch. Spanos, the club presi
dent, also saw some relief action last fall. 
Also on the staff is Hensel, returning from 
last spring, and newcomers Leo Cadden 
and Daniel Lankitus.
The infield caused a large number of 
the Tartans problems last fall, but is 
perhaps the most bolstered part of the 
team this spring. Keynoting the diamond 
is shortstop and captain John Spanos, 
singled out by Coach Allen as a fine 
fielder. Spanos also hits for a high 
average, although not a power leader. 
Complementing Spanos is second 
baseman Jeff Chico Bergman, a line 
drive hitter who can also play shortstop 
and third base.
Expected to be a regular at first base is 
junior Steve Orlando, one of the clubs 
batting average leaders in the fall, his first
with the team. Despite that high average, 
Orlando expects to better it this spring. 
Last fall was my first season since high 
school and I didn't see the ball real well. 
Ive got new glasses, which should help 
me make better contact.
Rounding out the infield are John 
Waugaman and Mark Weinstein fighting 
for the third base job. Coach Allen notes 
that sophomore John Chang, who saw 
limited action this fall, has a good chance 
of breaking into the infield. Allen also 
stated that Ill find a way to squeeze Mike 
Hensel in...we need his bat in the lineup. 
Newcomer Dave Elias, who can also play 
outfield, may also contribute.
Behind the plate, the mainstay is hard
hitting junior Rich Theg. Theg batted 
third in Allens lineup all fall and ended 
with a batting average over .300. He is ex
pected to be backed up by Rick DuVall, 
who filled in for Theg occasionally dur
ing the fall, and Rick Fetterman, also a 
freshman, who is coming out for the team 
for the first time this spring.
Another place where the team is 
relatively stable is in the outfield, where 
the regulars should be Paul Masalsky, Bill 
Yankovitch, and Larry Ropelewski. 
Yankovitch and Ropelewski wil provide 
most of the power...Masalsky is more of 
a contact hitter and should bat for a 
higher average  said Allen of his outfield. 
Coach Allen was also delighted that
sophomore Dan Preston chose toplayClub members are optimistic for the 
upcoming season, despite disappojnt. 
ments in the past. Notes catcher Theg 
Im hoping this year will be a change f0r 
the better. Personally, Im expecting a 
good season this spring because the 
sunlight is less reflective [on the ball] 
President Spanos is also upbeat. Ourpit. 
ching shortage has been solved, and the 
new guys should help out alot. Dan 
Preston concurrs, I think the new guys 
like Cadden, Elias, and Lankitus, will help 
us out more than anyone thinks. 
While Coach Allen failed to gjve 
specific team objectives past playing 
solid baseball and having fun, some 
players were more specific. Many felt that 
the team should aim at the .500 level 
which would then attract new talent and 
fans to the team, and possibly get the club 
more recognition on campus. We 
werent as bad as our record last 
fall. . . losing five one-run games in a row 
really hurt us, but our record is how we 
are judged by most people, said Spanos, 
The team has a 20-game schedule this 
spring, 11 of which are at home. The Tar
tans begin play on March 21 with a 12:00 
double header against Duquesne, which 
will be played on CMUs home field at 
Mellon Park, at Fifth and Penn avenues. 
All games are open to the public free of 
charge.
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE
EXPANDED
Now Every Sunday through Thursday
7:00 - 10:00 PM
CALCULUSPH 225B
PRE, I, II, III
PHYSICSPH 226B
CHEMISTRYPH 226C
ENGLISH WRITINGPH 125B
INTRO TO COMPUTINGWeH 5415
Sponsored by Student Affairs and
Counseling and Student Development
Center.
The community is cordially invited to the 
1985 United Jewish Federation Endowed Lecture 
Sponsored by B nai B 'rith Hillel at Carnegie-Mellon University 
At Carnegie-Mellon University on Thursday, March 14, at 8:15 p.m. 
In the Adamson Wing of Baker Hall.
Rabbi Moshe Zemer, Rabbi ofKedem Synagogue in Tel Aviv and President of the Israel Council of Progressive Rabbis (MARAM) will speak on, Secular Career fewish life: The Halacha and the Shaping of our Lives. 
A reception will follow.
Contact Bnai Brith Hillel for further information at 621-8875
SSRff__ $2 for catalogof over 16,000 topics to assist vour research eforts. For info., call tflf free 1-800621-5745JinJ' J llnois call 312-922wWAuthors Rm 600-jV1 S Owbom. Chicago. It BgjS.
IF YOU NEED A 
LAWYER
CALL683  3555
 MMII V 1 .AW DIVORO l'Ut SON \l I IS JI ' K V  I.MINAI I..WV I HIM I MN**
MURRAY A. FELDERAl IOKM.V \l I .AM
3447 Forbes Ave. 
OAKLAND
In The Cotskill Mtns Of NY
CAMP SEQUOIATraditional Co-Ed Can
CAMP SHANETrim-Down Physical Fitness Can
Stiff positions in a variety of activity areas are waitableINTERVIEWS ON CAMPUSMARCH 27TH SIGN UP AT CAREER PLANNING AND PLACEMENT

---------------------------------------------------

March 12, 1985The TartanPage 21
ong distance corps 
rill lead mens track
PAUL MASALSKY 
L Staffwriter
MU has maintained its domination of 
track for the past several years by be
ll better physical shape than the opLn at the start of the season.
[is year, however, the Tartans may 
i a bigger disadvantage working 
Lt them. For the past three weeks, 
[h Gary Meckley has been sidelined 
[ mononucleosis. The team has been 
[g through pre-season workouts 
[out the guidance which has produc[ string of championship teams.
and Bethany. The unusually good weather 
has been a blessing to a team which will 
be working hard to make up for the 
absence of their coach.
Although the distance squad has lost 5 
dependable runners to various types of in
juries, the overall strength of the team still 
lies within this group. Mike Short, an AllAmerican in the mile and the half mile, 
will team with Gary Marchionna, a strong 
harrier who nearly made the nationals last 
season, to lead the team. John Wessels, a 
graduate student who captured the con
ference championship in the 5,000 and
10,000 meter runs, will provide muchneeded assistance.
The pole vault and the triple jump will 
be the strongest of the field events, accor
ding to Meckley. Phil Gerald, Joe Honse 
and Nick Bell will be counted on in the 
pole vault, while Jim Rogers (last years 
conference champion) and Dave Silver
man should be consistent performers in 
the triple jump. The other field events will 
be pretty weak, according to Meckley.
1985 will be an experimental year for 
the womens team, as the PAC begins its 
womens track program. Hiram will be the 
only experienced team in the league, hav
ing competed independently for many 
years. Rookie coach Gerri Seidl says that
[know well have a successful season, 
I cant predict a repeat of the conLe championship, remarked 
kley, who cant wait to overcome his 
hess and begin working closely with 
bam members. I simply havent had 
opportunity to teach them anything, 
I understand the competition will be 
|v tough.
Inners and weight men are already 
Ing in full work-outs in early preparaIfor CMUs first meet, an April 3 triI against Washington and Jefferson
her teams performance is hard to predict, 
because there is no knowledge of how 
her team members run competitively.
Our pre-season conditioning might 
give us an advantage, but there is no way 
I can say how well we will do, com
mented Seidl. In practice the girls have 
done a nice job. Theyve gotten out and 
shown that they really want a team.
Seidl was originally told that she 
would not even get 10 people out for the 
team. The critics have been silenced, 
however, as twenty-one harriers have 
reported to practice. The team will be led 
by Luz Orsini who, according to Seidl, is 
very into track and eager to train. 
Other hurdlers who should figure pro
continued on page 23
During the time you're an undergraduate or graduate student, 
you may experience some of the following:
DEPRESSION  ANXIETY  LONELINESS  ANGER  CAREER DOUBTS
 FAMILY TROUBLES  DIFFICULTY WITH FRIENDSHIPS  
SEXUAL QUESTIONS  MARITAL OR PARENTING PROBLEMS
 LACK OF MOTIVATION  SLEEPING OR EATING PROBLEMS
Up to a certain level these feelings are quite normal, but when they begin to get 
in the way or overwhelm you, psychotherapy may be of help. Approximately 
half of our patients are students.
If you are interested in seeking such help through insight-oriented, confi
dential psychotherapy on a sliding fee scale, call 661-2300 and ask for Mrs. 
Brown. Qualified therapists will be available to speak with you. We are only 2 
miles from Oakland, an easy bus ride. Insurance coverage can often be utilized.
PITTSBURGH, PA 152065920 BRYANT ST.
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center
211 N. Whitfield St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 
A private clinic in the public service
Free Publications
 handy order form in the 
package to obtain free IRS pubns on over 90 different taxWHAT DO I DO 
AFTER 
GRADUATION?mm...
 Dip^r ag5i$n4,fD1Many students are asking this question. 
But where can you use your degree in the 
best way? One answer is to become an Air 
Force officer through Air Force ROTC. Youll 
have an unequaled opportunity to lead, 
manage and be successful. Aim High with 
Air Force ROTC. Youll have a challenging 
and rewarding future waiting for you after 
graduation.
Contact: Capt Michael Lacroix
578-8747, PH-15
Gateway to a great way of life

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanMarch 12, 1985
through all of this success, Steve Francis college athletes
; 
photo by Rob McNicholas
Athlete of the month
Francis swims to success as PAC cham
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
For an athlete who thought of abandon
ing his swimming career as a CMU 
freshman, the current exposure that Steve 
Francis has received couldnt be more 
welcome.
Recently the subject of an article in the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Francis gave a 
stellar individual performance in the PAC 
Championships at John Carroll by setting 
league records in the 100-yard and 
200-yard freestyles. As if that wasnt 
enough, Francis teamed with Rob Sum
mers, Whitney Foster and Mike Fitzgerald 
to qualify for the NCAA championships in 
three relay events.
As a team, the Tartans brought home a 
satisfactory third place finish in the 
tourney. Moreover, it was an appropriate 
ending to a fine season for a scholarathlete who didnt know if he wanted to 
swim two short years ago.
Steve is an incredible swimmer who 
worked diligently to gain confidence in 
himself, commented Coach Donna Pecman. Two years ago he was unsure about 
competing, and now he has a good 
chance at becoming an All-American.
Last year I thought swimming would 
interfere with my academics, but my 
coach and the team members helped me 
with my attitude change. remarked Fran
cis, who will pack his bags for the NCAA 
Championships in Atlanta, March 14-16.
On a young team, Francis is considered 
the team leader despite his sophomore 
standing. According to Pecman, he is 
respected both in and out of the pool, 
as someone who doesnt demand respect 
but acquires it naturally. This quality is
evidenced by his recent election to the 
Vice-Presidency at Pi Kappa Alpha. Yet
maintains a noble modesty and 
friendliness found only in exceptionalteam,
Steve Francis qualified nationally in the maximum amount of events, six, that is per
mitted. For other athlete-of-the-month nominees and more information about Fran
cis, see page 25. _________________________________________________
Our team is very close knit, and 
all get along very well, said Francis 
dont think Ive peaked as a performer 
nor do I think theres room for one 
ticular leader on the 
Coach Pecman disagrees. $tevj 
leadership is great for the team 
within the reach of the freshmen 
gives them as much respect as he receiv 
Francis places a lot of emphasis on 
training, which involves swimming 6< 
yards a day in preparation for comi 
tion. According to Pecman, his efficj 
stroke and concentration enable him 
perform consistently in a number 
events. He always seems to get the j 
done. Steve can pick up a full body leni 
in the anchor leg of a race because oft] 
good shape hes in. said Pec 
A chemical engineering major her 
CMU, Francis had a illustrious career 
Shaler High School, near his hometoi 
of Glenshaw. In his senior year, he fn 
ed second in the 50-yard freestyle and 
cond in the 100-yard freestyle at 
WPIALs. In the Pennsylvania State Ci 
pionships, he finished second in 
100-yard freestyle and fifth in the 50 y 
freestyle. He currently resides in Gl< 
shaw with his parents, one sister, 
brother who is an alumnus of CM 
Asked about his future expectations 
the team and for himself, Francis replii 
As a team, I thought we couldve 
better this season, but we were beaten 
good teams. Everyone went out trying 
prove themselves (at the PAC champii 
ships) and everyone worked hard to 
their times down. As for myself, Ill 
keep on working to reach my potenti
I
NEW from KOH-I-NOOR*RAPIDOGRAPH'Technical Pen Set
A $452 was 
Value
NOW
$29.95
$25.00
A complete system 
for drawing with 
ink or lead.
Varie tymmiret iktsFeaturing:
3 Rapidograph Precision Line Widths: 00/.30, 0/.35,1/.50 
1 Bottle 3080-F Universal Black Drawing Ink
1 FREE Imbibed 9600/PT20 Eraser to remove ink from film
1 FREE 286J Vinyl Eraser to remove graphite from paper
1 FREE Tube Koh-I-Noor Poly-Max '" Lead: 0.5 mm
RAPIDOGRAPH and RAPIDOMATlC are reqis>tered Trademarks of Koh-I-Noor Rapidograph. IncItem 3165 SP 3R
AVAILABLE AT C-MU ART STORE

---------------------------------------------------

March 12, 1985The TartanPage 23
AB Lecture Tues., 
March 12, 8 p.m. 
Skbo Ballroom
!?by Activities Fee
Dr. Helen Caldicott
Founder of Womens Action for Nuclear Disarmament, former director of Physicians for Social Responsibility, author of Nuclear Madness and Misile Envy, Dr. Helen Caldicott is the most dynamic and influential speaker on the nuclear arms race today.Dr. Caldicott attended medical school in her native Australia, where she led the fight against atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons. In 1977, she came to the United States to teach at Harvard University Medical School. Dr. Caldicott is featured in two films on the arms race, Eight Minutes to Midnight and If You Love This Planet.
s coming... Tartan buggy preview, April 16
bmens track begins
tinued from page 21
field events.
Many of these girls have had to rear
range their academic schedules because 
they didnt know there was going to be 
a track team. There is more interest than 
anticipated, and we cant wait to start the 
program, said Seidl.
nently in Seidl s plans are Mary 
perick, Liz Killmeyer, Leslie Williams 
ijoy Braxton. Sarah Yant should be the 
der in distance events for the team, 
:ked up by Carolyn Hull, Amy Johnson 
j Margaret Wismar. Donna Nyzio is ex
ited to be a fierce competitor in the
Write: YOUTH EXCHANGE 
Pueblo. Colorado 81009
ow that negotiation season is 
over, spring brings baseball fun
By Christopher D. Lewis 
The Pittsburgh weather has been teas
ing us with the elements of spring. In 
many towns in Florida and
Wr Arizona, spring brings
v baseball. And for many
baseball fans in the United States and 
Canada, spring means optimism, because 
here in March everyone, even the Texas 
Rangers, is equal to everyone else.
Of course, there are favorites, such as 
the defending champions Detroit Tigers 
and San Diego Padres. But in the spring 
every fan can dream, listing all the ifs 
that his or her team needs to win.
I am very happy that the off-season is 
over. Finally, baseball conversations will 
turn to balls and strikes, home runs and 
double plays instead of million-dollar 
contracts, arbitration rulings and freeagent signings.
The major leagues of baseball dont 
have to worry about fans losing touch 
during the off-season. In fact, off
season should be changed to negotia
tion season. Players arent motivated by 
games anymore, but motivated by the 
fact that they are in the option year of 
their contract.
This arbitration stuff is really what 
angers me. If you qualify, you can be in 
the middle of your contract and apply to 
get more money. If the arbiter decides 
that the player deserves it, he gets it, 
whether or not the team can afford 
another big contract. That arbiter may 
know nothing about baseball, but it is his 
decision.
It is this day and age when a utility in
fielder can make $300,000 a year. I doubt 
if Fred Chicken Stanley ever made that 
much. Rusty Staub, who does nothing
but pinch hit for the Mets, gets paid over 
$375,000. But he is important, and the 
fans love him, so he makes the money.
Ah yes, the fans. We are the ones who 
foot the bill. Management pays the con
tracts through higher ticket prices and 
lucrative cable TV pacts, making it more 
difficult to see games in person or on the 
tube. Unfortunately, Ill pay almost 
anything to see a game; Ive already been 
hooked.
There are now 36 players guaranteed 
to make over one million dollars in 1985. 
This does not include incentive clauses 
and fringe benefits many players receive. 
Lary Sorensen makes $50,000 if he leads 
the Chicago Cubs in games started. Rick 
Sutcliffes arm would have to do not less 
than have his arm fall off before Sorensen 
starts more games. Speaking of Sutcliffe, 
he is guaranteed a single room with a 
king size bed on the road.
For the Pirate fans information, they 
have two members of the million dollar 
club, Steve Kemp and Jason Thompson. 
Thompson is a very inconsistent power 
hitter, it is not known if Kemp can even 
throw the ball as spring training opens, 
not a good sign for an outfielder.
But forget all that. Root for your 
favorite team, and root against your 
roommates favorite team. Division 
rivalries, home run and strikeout kings, 
players take your marks, the race for the 
pennant is about to begin.
Christopher D. Lewis is a sophomore ma
joring in Professional Writing and is The 
Tartan sports editor. Stay tuned for the 
Tartan baseball preview on opening day, 
April 9

---------------------------------------------------

\
Page 24The TartanMarch 12, 1985
The Numbers Sheet
CMU Final Mens Basketball Stats
PF-D
George Dehski2260146411233860582/3.757-114311131436,5
Dwayne Waite7.2611374451839462147/6.760-43261517140t>A
Hart Coleman229473340*77486198/Q 06V0352441622310.1
Robert Brown1835964612535,71431/1.748-44044216955,3
Michael Stewart225^165345182669235/1.635-052590141326.0
John Taormina22117236496781097161125.153-1487432131214.2
David Rarf?136814441579517-15/2.127-0332702187i.i
Richard Neff776916S-4184165631121/S.544-026396161798 !
Tom Franklin19517294142360928/1.534-05623115241.3
Steve Jorhnan113333000002/2.01-0120022,0
David Smith100000000002/2.00-0000000,0
John Render700000010002/1.03-0010100.0
I uke Demo1010007?1 001/1.00-0020022.0
Roger De Vries114.25001.0000/00-0000022.0
BethanyFGFTTPCMUFGFTTj>Beegle1-70-02Waite2-60-04Morris160-02Neff3-101-17Shelly4-82-210Coleman5-133-4nKemp3-93-59Taormina8-130-0isYankovich -10-221221Stewart1-50-09Fullum4-63-311Brown2-40-04Adams0-00-00Debski6-100-0121Brennan1-40-02Bart0-41-2
Totals24-629-1257Totals27-655-759
FG pet.: B-.387, CMU-.415. FT pet.: B-.750, CMU-.714. 
Rebounds: B-38(Kemp 14), CMU-41(Coleman 17).
Assists: B-10 (Beagle, Morris 3 each), CMU 21(Stewart, Brown 6 
Referees: Hill and Valentino. Halftime: Bethany 30-21ea:: I
PAC ALL-CONFERENCE WOMEN S 
BASKETBALL TEAMS1985
Coach-of-the-year Gie Rhoads (Thiel) 
Most-Valuable-Player Cindy Kelly (W&J)
First TeamPos. Ht.CLSecond TeamPos. Ht.CL
Cindy Kelly (W&J)F5-10 JRPam Magill (W&J)G5-6SR'
Terri McDivitt (Hiram)F5-8TRLaurie Arandas (CMU)G5-6SR
Teresa Collins (Thiel)G5-4SOSue Haskett (Hiram)F5-6JR
Debby Buzanoski (GC)G/F5-8SRMonica Yustak (GC)G/F5-8SO
Diane Hess (Bethany)F5-8SOBrenda McNicol (JC)F5-8SO
Honorable MentionPos. Ht.
Becky Kilbert (Hiram) C 5-li 
Julie Kulesza (Thiel) G/F 5-7 
Michelle Schlegel (CMU) F/C 5-7 
Michelle Tanksley (GC) G 5-4 
Brenda Kanar (GC) G/F 5-8
Stacy Matulewicz (Beth. ) F 5-10 
Robyn Thompson (Beth.) G 5 3 
Anne Haynam (Hiram) G 5-3 
Theresa Dickerson 0C) G 5-7 
Mary Vollmer 0C) C 5-9
JYoure deep under the sea.
THie are 4600 tons of nuclearpowered submarine around 
you. Your missionto preserve 
the peace.
Your jobto coordinate a 
practice missile launch. Every
thing about the sub is state-ofthe-art, including you.
The exercise-a success. Youre 
part of that success and now 
youre riding high.
^ In the nuclear Navy, you learn 
quickly. Over half of Americas 
nuclear reactors are in the 
Navy. And that means you get 
hands-on experience fast.
You get rewarded fast, too. 
With a great starting salary of 
$22,000 that can build to as 
much as $44,000 after five years. 
And with training and skills 
youll use for a lifetime.
Then, whether youre in the
Mediterranean, the Pacific or 
the Atlantic^wherever you 
move around the world, youll 
be movingTip in your career
and in the Navy. ~~...............
Find out more about an 
exciting future that you can "
start today. ------
See voiir Navy Recruiter or 
CALL800-327-NAVY.
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

---------------------------------------------------

March 12, 1985The TartanPage 25
The Numbers Sheet
Athlete of the month
SPORT
Fencing
Womens Basketball
Mens Basketball
Indoor Soccer
Intramurals
Lacrosse
Hockey
ATHLETES-OF-THE-MONTH FEBRUARYNOMINEE 
Tom Ciminelli 
Michelle Schlegel 
Hart Coleman 
Charlie Lockhead 
Rob Fleischman 
Roy Teresky 
Eric Spray
STEVE FRANCIS 1984-85
Qualified in 6 events for NCAA III swimming championships.
Broke 3 individual pool and conference swimming records at PACs.
Broke 3 team records at home swimming meets.
Won every event he swam during dual meet swim season 1984-85.
Is a member of the three relay teams which broke pool and conference records 
at PACs.
PUyMl 51MyvUy25
'verall
fash. & Jeff.
Taf
ethany
hiel
rove City 
iram
ohn Carroll
PAC Standings
WOMEN'S
wLPet.PACWLPet.OverallWLPet.PACWLPet.
184.818Wash. & Jeff.111.917Thiel21*2.913Thiel801.00
913.409CMU75.583Wash. & Jeff.1110.524Wash. & Jeff.92.818
814.364John Carroll66.500John Carroll1012.454Grove City53.625
814.364Bethany57.417Grove City911.450John Carroll45.444
715.318Hiram57.417Hiram912.429Bethany34.429
715.318Grove City48.333CMU413.235Hiram28.200
715.318Thiel48.333Bethany316.158CMU18.111
includes two victories by forfeit
DISARM A
MO1
DON'T LET HIM DRIVE.
Men anchwomen who wouldn't think of 
pointing a loaded gun at a fellow human 
being, think nothing of drinking and driving. 
Drinking turns a car into a lethal weapon.
And drunk drivers kill more than 25,000 
people each year. A person under the 
influence should never be allowed behind 
the wheel. Lets not meet by accident.
Question:
Do you want a 
place to hang out 
with your friends? A 
place with more 
study and meeting 
rooms?
Answer:
The Braemer 
House-right near 
the fraternity quad.
Student Senate
Working together, 
we get things done.
Student Semite:
Working together, we get things 
done.
Tuesday nights at 700 p.m. in 
the Wherrett Room
Funded by the Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.___________
Pittsburgh: 
the best city
Pittsburgh is the best city in America?
Rand McNallys new Places Rated Almanac gives 
the Steel City the highest rating of Americas 329 
officially-defined metropolitan areas. While native 
Pittsburghers are celebrating ecstatically, many 
students at CMU have had less than favorable reac
tions to the announcement. Perhaps this feeling 
comes from the sixty-odd percent of students 
residing out of state; perhaps the high-pressure 
workload prevents them from traveling off-campus, 
or even prevents them from thinking about it for too 
long. Whatever the explanation, this new survey 
compels us all to look again at the city which, if on
ly for a short period of time, we call home.
The Almanac bills itself as a guide to the best 
places to live in America. It judges each metropolitan 
area on nine criteria: climate, housing, health care and 
environment, crime, transportation, education, the 
arts, recreation, and economics. It then totals the 
rankings in each criterion for each city; the city with 
the lowest total score is therefore the best place to 
live. The study is very meticulously carried out; 
although the pages are thicker, the book is the size 
of the Greater Pittsburgh Yellow Pages. Each city is 
analyzed at least briefly in each category, and each 
city is placed somewhere in numerical order in every 
list.
Up until this book came out, the argument on the 
quality of Pittsburgh as a city raged endlessly. Peo
ple either love Pittsburgh or hate it, and they dont 
hesitate to talk about it. But no one can dispute that 
the Pittsburgh metropolitan area has improved in re
cent years. Ten years ago, Pittsburgh was the butt 
of many jokes, ranking with Cleveland and Buffalo 
as one of the least respected cities in America. 
Downtown Pittsburgh was a blatant health hazard, t 
as a poisonous grey-green haze blarik^ted the city,'7 * 
corroding buildings, roads, and respiratory systems.
In no way is the city perfect now, but its success 
lies in its lack of tremendous weaknesses. According 
to the statistics provided by the Almanac, Pittsburgh 
is rated the most livable city in America not because 
it has the greatest number of outstanding attributes, 
but because it has the fewest number of poor ones.
Its lowest rankings (in Housing at 186th, and 
Economics at 185th) are only slightly below average; 
in every other factor, Pittsburgh ranks in the top 100, 
with its highest rating given in Education (7th).
For a large urban area (population 2.3 million), 
Pittsburgh has a surprisingly low crime rate, ranked 
78th in the country. And, despite its urban ap
pearance, Pittsburgh has a small-town atmosphere 
which few other metro areas integrate successfully. 
Residential areas such as Oakland, Shady side, and 
Squirrel Hill, as well as others not so close to cam
pus, help unify Pittsburgh and give it a strong feel
ing of pride.
Even Pittsburghs good points can have problems, 
however. Though rated a good number 76 in the 
Almanac for quality of transportation, mass transit 
is expensive, and is also in a state of great financial 
distress. Although the system of roads is good, the 
condition of these roads is horrendous. Winter 
wreaks havoc on city drivers, leaving gaping holes
in many an avenue.
Wherever they hail from, CMU students can no
longer disparage their second home because it is not 
as good as their first; the Rand McNally almanac has 
shown that. Pittsburghs future is looking bright, 
while many other areas are falling apart. It has been 
the people who have made this city, who have work
ed hard to keep it clean, and who believe in its 
greatness. We ought to feel privileged to be able to 
go to school here.
M-SUSSMAI\
'SEE? i told you we wod.
Letters:
Outside news media insensitive
Editor:
. 3 rwant |o express my concern 
about the manner in which a re
cent story was handled by the Post-Gazette and the rest of the 
Pittsburgh media. At a time 
when our sympathies go out to 
the family of Colleen Organ, a 
young woman who died Feb. 
16 while visiting the CarnegieMellon campus, the media 
displayed little restraint in pur
suing the dark side to the 
tragedy.
The implications that Ms. 
Organ or her boyfriend, 
George Haley, might have been 
using drugs or alcohol strike me 
as both cynical and cruel in
these circumstances. Despite 
the county coroners ruling t^at 
Ms. Organs death was from 
natural causes, the media 
were apparently unconvinced, 
tocal television news people 
were particularly aggressive in 
their need to find some 
specious reason for the death. 
I am appalled at the medias 
lack of sensitivity and its 
disregard for the people involv
ed in this tragedy.
I am also saddened that this 
young womans death has 
become a media event, when in 
fact it is a personal tragedy for 
the Organ and Haley families.
This coverage is another in 
the long line of stories that
Real need for Core program
Editor:
Did you notice how high 
schools were not mentioned in 
either of the articles in the Tar
tan last week or three weeks 
ago? Why? Here we were talk
ing about instituting a program 
for incoming freshpersons, and 
not once was there mention of 
the educational institutions 
from whence they came! I feel 
the proposed CMU Core pro
gram is neglecting to look at 
one of the prime constituencies 
and the institutes in which they 
were educated  high school 
students and high schools.
I would like to know the 
percentage of present college 
students who would have need
ed the Core because of their 
lack of appropriate courses in
high school. I would guess a 
rather high number, and not 
because of the students but 
because of the high schools. I 
continually hear college 
students who say, I did 
NOTHING! I NEVER studied! 
when they refer to their high 
schools. They strut around 
damned proud of this fact until 
they get slapped with a tough 
curriculum like CMUs. Situa
tions like this make me wonder 
what kind of intellectual com
petition I may NOT have here.
I would also like to know the 
percentage of those who may 
not have needed the Core 
because they received an exten
sive high school education. I 
would guess a rather high 
number for this, too. From 
students like these I hear comtreflect the medias titillai 
5with fraternity1 life on coll 
campuses. Fraternities, 
the impression the public i 
get from the media, are 
centers of antisocial behavioj 
In fact, they often mal 
valuable contributions to  
ty through charity events  
other activities. None of tl 
however, gets press attentt 
because it is not news.
The death of a young won 
in a fraternity house appa 
ly is news whatever the cam 
of her death may be. My stfj 
pathies go out to the Organa
Haley families.
Jay Ca
Fraternity Advis
in high sch<
ments of how bored they^j 
their first year or so and 
some of how they wisM 
were challenged more 
type of student may fee 
they are wasting their ti 
money. ,
This leads us back to tnr
schools. My professor 
Strategies for Writingsu$. 
a few years ago that our 
tional system is esse| 
babysitting as far back as 
high school. Children I 
ting smarter at younger^! 
we seem to be prolong^ 
more advanced  . 
tougher  educatio 
grams until college an 
pose this could be W 
the vast increase in P 
ing for Masters degr^eS
continued ofl '

---------------------------------------------------

March 12, 1985The TartanPage 27
ore Letters:
ont be part of orchestrated silence  take a political stand
itor:y thoughts have recently 
ned towards the political, 
is seemingly innocent statent becomes less so when 
en in the context of the 
rnegie-Mellon University 
npus, where such thought, I
I contend, is not 
ouraged.
here are exceptions, for 
ich I am grateful. SpecificalI was inspired by discussions 
h two women visiting our 
lish department. The curt study of literature is often 
orrectly thought of as being 
oved from other disciplines 
/or real life. For both 
herine Belsey and Barbara 
low, literature is one of the 
ys through which awareness 
odes of thought can be ilrated. Their particular orienlead to exciting discuss of the Third World, Marx, and Feminism. After these 
pie departed though, I soon 
ized that there were only a 
dful of people with whom 
ould discuss such politics. 
is state of semillusionment prompted me 
ttend a student activist connce at Columbia University 
uary 8-10).
riginally, 1 wanted to write
ons
about a specific issue anywhere 
from apartheid South Africa to 
Reaganomics, but after speaking 
with a few students, I feel a 
much greater need to address 
the political consciousness of 
our university. Throughout the 
Columbia conference, spon
sored by DSA (Democratic 
Socialists of America), panelists 
like Noam Chomsky and Ruth 
Messinger addressed issues with 
the rise of the New Right or just 
plain apoliticalness on cam
puses in mind. As I look around 
our campus, I see little evidence 
of serious thought about cur
rent political issues. I 
acknowledge the efforts of the 
CMU Peace Alliance with their 
work on the SEI and The Tar
tans publishing of the series on 
Central America, but, I become 
a little disturbed when divest
ment in South Africa, such a key 
issue today, seems to only get 
press in our faculty Focus 
magazine (where it is revealed 
that CMU has about a third of its 
investment there, and the in
teresting justification given by 
the administration). When I was 
at the conference, a man from 
Ireland stood up in the overfill
ed auditorium and said that his 
impression of his students (he 
was a TA) was one of an or
chestrated silence. It is this 
silence I wish to address, a 
silence that has become com
mon sense for many of us.
At the Professional Choice 
University, our perspectives 
have a political history. I believe 
that calling the 80s apathetic 
generally is a mislabel. Here, the 
cause for our apoliticalness 
may be the result of the failure 
of the methods of 60s 
liberalism, not its values, often 
promoting a feeling of 
helplessness and need for 
material gain. Many on the left 
today will tell people its o.k. 
to be an activist because its no 
longer the fashion as in the Viet
nam era. Whether one is an ac
tivist or not, she/he should be 
aware of the institutions that 
form her/his thought. The cur
rent corporate takeover of the 
universities is not an arbitrary 
happening. The vocationalism 
is seen by its proponents as an 
alternative to the failure of the 
liberal arts education of the 
60s, which is producing our 
yuppie scramble (a belief that 
if you want anything in life 
youve got to get a piece of the 
action). Being silent at a 
university like ours often says 
much more than speaking out.
Rather than promoting
specific stances on current 
issues, I would like to pass on 
a way of thinking about politics 
on a personal level. Thinking 
back to Decision Processes in 
American Political Institutions 
class, I remember concluding 
that I needed to wait until I 
became a conglomerate before
I could affect a political policy. 
Now, I think differently. 
Although I do not delude 
myself into overestimating my 
personal political power on 
Capitol Hill, I am part of many 
larger institutions which I may 
or may not consciously sup
port. Personalizing politics 
begins with involvement in 
things that really do affect our 
lives; this means Reagans 
budget, nuclear war and even 
our university curriculum. I can 
not believe that we are indif
ferent towards such issues. 
Although alternatives are always 
finite, they are always there, 
one of which I witnessed at Col
umbia. Many of the courses in 
the English department (I am 
biased towards my own depart
ment of which I know more) 
now promote the discovery 
and questioning of ones opi
nions that are taken as truth. 
It is these opinions, which 
become common sense, that
are sometimes described as ex
tremism from the middle; ex
treme in their harmful implica
tions for issues such as nuclear 
war or civil rights. For example, 
the way in which you interpret 
a specific condition of the 
world, say poverty, may be 
with opinions promoted by 
conservative journalism spon
sored by the corporate class of 
America. Against social pro
grams helping the poor, many 
will have justifications at the 
tip of their tongue such as 
abuse of the welfare system and 
self-determinism. Many will re
ly on the American Dream 
argument; we can all be presi
dent, right? My mother used to 
tell me about people buying 
those Cadillacs with food 
stamps.
I end by asserting that, even 
though I cannot begin to tackle 
the problems of the world 
myself, the personal politics I 
have now allow me to choose 
between alternatives I have 
sought. If I did not choose, I 
would have chosen to support 
the status quo, chosen to re
main part of the orchestrated 
silence.Debra Martin 
English/Psychology 
Class of 86
reek View
By Leslie Hothersall 
members of the Greek community 
this years Greek Sing perforwere screened by the administrabefore groups were allowed to perin the annual charity event. It is a 
ty held belief that the administrative 
g was a form of censorship. Many 
le believe that Student Affairs decidimpose its own standards of qualipon the fraternities and sororities, 
though Greek Sing is supposed to be 
de administrative jurisdiction, 
cording to Christing Hayes, Greek 
chairperson, the Greek community 
^ not be able to rent a hall such as 
yria Mosque or Carnegie Music Hall
ffiJhe_Chair
without the help of the university. CMU 
must finance a 1150,000 insurance policy, 
and Dean Walter must sign the lease. In 
addition, Dean Cox is ultimately respon
sible for everything that occurs1 at Greek 
Sing.
Last year Syria Mosque personnel, the 
Hospices (the charity for which the 
money was raised), and the judges were 
all offended by one fraternitys actions on 
stage. I understand the administrations 
desire to prevent Greek Sing perfor
mances from offending people; however, 
I believe that the method for preventing 
offensive behavior was handled very 
poorly.
Not only did the admninstration intend
to eliminate offensive acts, but they also 
went as far as to eliminate acts that were 
unprepared, by their definition, two 
weeks before the show. In the past there 
have always been acts that were entertain
ing, but not necessarily polished. Assum
ing that the administration has the right 
to screen out offensive acts, that still does 
not give them the right to eliminate acts 
which they consider unprepared.
I also believe that the administration 
was wrong in not consulting the Greek 
Sing chairpersons concerning their defini
tion of offensive. The organizations 
were merely told to show up for the pre
screening to perform, without any 
continuad on pag* 28
your fellow student in walking escort
By Michael Bett 
e the Marines, Student Senate is 
n8 for a few good men and women, 
ing early next fall, we expect to 
a uHy operational walking escort 
,ce and a walking partrol on campus 
e for student use. These services 
organized by students, funded by
nt Senate, and supervised by Cam-tecurity.
^here do you come into the picI Udent Senate needs students who 
rs *n beconiing studentf thisorganization, currently
amed CMUs Angels. Senate also 
ted^-entS W*1 mi8ht not be inare m *ead*ng CMUs Angels, but 
mterested in making their conn to the CMU community by joins Angels and participating.
Being a student leader of this service 
organization would entail organizing the 
initial group, planning the group struc
ture, as well as making sure that the group 
is functioning smoothly throughout your 
terms as leader. The leader of this group 
must be able to deal with problems as 
they arise. Most importantly, the leader 
of CMUs Angels must be someone who 
is able and willing to work with Security 
in the planning of this group.
Does this sound like you? If so, maybe 
you should consider yourself a candidate 
to be leader of CMUs Angels.
Possibly you would be interested in be
ing a member of CMUs Angels. As a 
member, the responsibilities you would 
have include going on foot partrol on and 
around campus and escorting students
around campus. Of course, you would be 
performing your patrol and escort duties 
with other members of CMUs Angels. 
This would make your campus a safer 
place to live while giving you a chance 
to help others.
Interested? Does this sound like 
something you would like to do? If you 
are interested in either leading this group 
or being a member of CMUs Angels, then 
get in touch with me. You can leave a note 
addressed to me do Student Senate in my 
mailbox behind the information desk in 
Skibo with your name and number.
Remember, working together is how 
we get things done.
Michael Bett is a junior majoring in 
Mathematics and is Chairman of Student
Senate.
Thefertan.
Editor-in-Chief..........Stephen VolanManaging Editor..........Mike Pilewski
Business Manager John Friedmann
News Editor...............Karen Gray
Features Editor..........Ric MedrowEntertainment Editor..........Al Datri
Sports Editor .Christopher D. Lewis 
Photography Editor .. Mike Pilewski
Acme Editor............Mohan Embar
Art Manager .. Michael A. Sussman 
Production Manager .Katrln Wesner 
Typesetting Manager . .Jill Clelland 
Asst. Business Mgr. .John Lumpkin 
Asst. News Editor .. .Jennifer Even
Asst. Photo Editor........Dan Pellish
Asst. Art Mgr...............Mark Kissner
Asst. Typesetting Mgr. Joe Hasper
Contributing Editors: Peter Bain, Judy 
Merrill, Bonnie Topf, Pauline Wen, Neil 
Greenblum
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Celeste 
Clark, Dennis Cohen, Matt Davies, 
George Fitzmaurice, Don Gamble, 
Bonnie Jacobson, Kathy Murtaugh, Chris Telfer.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of 
the opinion section, and are the official 
opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who are usually on The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in
dividual authors who are usually members of the University community 
A letter intended for publication must 
be signed and include the writer's ad
dress and phone number for verification Names will be withheld upon re
quest The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28The TartanMarch 12f 1985
Real need for Core program in high school
continued from page 26
graduate school. (An M.B.A. in 
1950 was more prestigious and 
carried a much higher relative 
price tag than an M.B.A. today 
when so many people are 
receiving them.)
Two points stand out. Our 
society is prolonging a need 
that is needed earlier. And this 
core fails to reccognize the 
backgrounds of the students
entering CMU. V
I feel our colleges should go 
back to our high schools and 
get them to give students a 
tougher, more vigorous educa
tion. I feel the Core is doing 
what should be the responsibili
ty of high schools. I feel CMU 
is looking at the quality of the 
student coming out of our high 
schools and becoming 
frustrated when they find the
students do not know as much 
as they would like them to 
know. I submit that this is due 
to the lack of challenge, on the 
average, of our high school pro
grams. But instead of working 
in conjunction with other col
leges to improve the high 
schools, I think CMU  and the 
lot of other colleges that I am 
sure are in the same boat  take 
the rather snobbish attitude
that, Well, if the high schools 
cant educate the kids, then we 
will.
Why does this happen? Does 
it need to happen? Why cant 
students have enough 
knowledge in high school to be 
able to concentrate in their area 
of interest sooner than college?
I do not know the absolute 
answers to these questions, nor 
do I wish to raise any more
eyebrows  or blow any 
stacks  than I already hav I 
safe to say that I have eXn 
ed my opinion in h0pes 
those proposing the C 
looked or will look
their own environment hi 
CMU to high school stu 
and high schools.
Joe Guai 
Industrial Management
c*RAMONES
General Admission Tickets at 
National Record Marts & OASIS
MARCH 20th
Mosque Ballroom 8 p.m.
UPCOMING EVENTS:
THE CRUSADERS with Billy Cobham March 2 1 St The Syria Mosque 
KISS with W.A.S.P. March 26th CIVIC ARENA 
REGGAE SUNSPLASH April 15th The Syria Mosque
withN$US
Ask for Expert Advice 
on which Conditioner 
is right for you!
Lewis Hair Salon 
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
682-4063
Genuine NEXxUS Products are sold only in professional hair styling salons.
SPRINGBREAK RATE
Make your break with us. 
You can rent a car if you're 
18 or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current stu
dent I.D. and a cash depos
it. Stop by to fill out a short 
cash qualification form at
$4Q9S 19 s
least 24-hours in advance.
You pay for gas and return 
car to renting location. We 
also accept most major credit 
cards.
Rate available from noon Thursday, 
March 14, to 6 pm 
Monday, March 25. 
Certain daily 
minimums apply. 
Ask for details.
We feature CM cars 
like this Chevy Chevette
Non discountable rate applies to this or similar 
size car and is subject to change without notice 
Specific cars subject to aiwulabiiity
ftNational Car Rental
W
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention
Available at:
434 Boulevard of the Allies 261-5500 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland) 682-1444
The Greek View
continued from page 27
knowledge of what was considered ( 
sive. If the reviewers (Jay Carson ] 
Walter and Ed Lilley) were not satis 
with the performance, they told thee 
that they would not be allowe 
perform.
According to Steve Dreskin, Greekj 
chairman for Theta Xi, Dean Walter <j 
ed a set of criteria for this screening! 
cess without consulting any of! 
chairpersons. In addition, he felthe| 
acting in the interests of the sen 
groups. The adminstration did not s 
to realize that if a group wanted tot 
fensive at Greek Sing, it certainly i 
not have included the offensive i 
the act in the screening.
I feel that in the future the fraten 
and sororities should be given the! 
of the doubt until they violate! 
guidelines set forth by the Greek 
chairpersons. Only those groups] 
previous acts deemed offensive 
chairpersons should be screened. 1 
chairpersons should also act as the jul 
of the screening; other groups whoj 
shown to be serious groups shou 
be subjected to this demoralizingprc
In short, while CMU does havea 
terest in the content of Greek Sing) 
formances, it does not have the i 
censor these performances.
Leslie Hothersall is a senior in Infoj 
tion Systems and is a sister of tin 
Omega sorority.
Copyright  1985 by The Tartan 
Editorial Board reserves the rigl 
withhold from publication any c(j 
deems unfit for publication. Editon 
fices: Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111 .Bui 
Offices: Skibo 52, (4 1 2) 578-2*}] 
hour phone, (412) 578-2113' 
dress: Skibo 103, Carnegie* 
University,
burgh, PA 15213. 4|1|IFunded by the Activities Fee. w] 
reserved.
Pittsburgh Dance Council 
presents
Les Ballets
Montreal
MARCH 19 HEINZ HALL 8 P.M.
TICKETS: $5-522 at Hem 
Box Ofc., TicketCharge i f 
4900), PDC (355-0330), 
mann's & Gimbels $$
Visa/MC accepted ^ J

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
nnouncements
t Chance to collect items collected from the
11 A Phi O Locker Clean-up. These items 
ere removed from unregistered lockers in 
Doherty and Porter Hall basements. 
nclaimed items will be donated to charity on 
turday, March 30. For more information call 
?il6 or stop by Skibo 54. 
ff Center Theater will accept ten interns to 
ork in its street theater program this sumer Cost is $1000. For more information, 
l 212-929-8299 or write OFF CENTER 
HEATER, INC., 436 West 18th Street, New 
brie, NY 10011.
Applications for the Carnegie Awards Solo 
Competition are available to musicians who 
want the opportunity to experience the audi
tion process, compete against other musicians 
of the same age, and have their performances 
critiqued by professional musicians. For more 
information, call x2382.
Summer jobs are available to thousands of in
terested college students and teachers nation
wide this year. Exciting opportunities, good 
pay and selection. For more information, send 
a long, self-addressed stamped envelope to 
1985 SUMMER JOBS PROGRAM, Box 594, 
Room 12, Barnstable, MA 02630.
Classifieds
For SaleToshiba Belt Drive Turntable $70. 
IBM Selectric II Office Typewriter $300. Call 
687-1358. Leave name and number.
Foreign Students and all persons speaking 
English as a second language: Learn 
American talk, Pittsburgh's most talked about 
language program. Begins: this week! Details 
682-1824
Seeking two-bedroom apartment for
September occupancy. Call Andrew or Anatole 
at 687-3007.
UMBA LA TREK12 day trek from luxury 
houseboats of Kashmir to grand vistas of the 
Great Himalayas. Dates July 8, 1985 to July 28, 
1985. Cost: $800 to $950. App. Airfare $1350. 
MARDKHIDDEN VALLEY10 day trek from 
luxury houseboats of Kashmir to LehLittle 
Tibet. See western end of the Himalayas and 
Buddhist monasteries. Dates July 25, 1985 to 
August 15, 1985. Cost: $935 to $1000. App. Air
fare $1350.
Interested persons write: CLASSIC TRAVEL, 
764 Plaza, Box 374, Duncansville, Pa. 16635. 
Phone: (814) 696-3558. May 8, 1985 reserva
tion deadline.
'vents
Movies
O/ Harry and Tonto, starring Art 
Carney, Ellen Burstyn, Larry 
jagman. A wonderfully warm comedy about 
[72-year-old man and his cat who journey 
Loss the U.S. to find a personal identity, 
rney received an Oscar for his fine perfornce. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 
n, 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Music
liversity of Pittsburgh Choral Society and 
iiiversity-Civic Orchestra presents a free 
bncert conducted by Kypros Markou inuding Beethovens Symphony No. 1, 
lahms Song of Fate, and American com])ser William Bergsmas The Sun, the SoarEagle, the Turquoise Prince, the God. 
vish Community Center, 315 South 
lllefield Street, Oakland, 8:30 pm. For more 
formation call the Pitt Music Department at 
14-4126.
Clubs
tident Senate meets in the Skibo Wherrett
fom at 7 pm.
Lectures
ildren of divorced parents support group 
ows students to talk to people who are go! through it themselves. Counseling Center, 
power Morewood, 3:30 pm to 5:30 pm.
bfessor Duncan of the Tuition Committee
J)king into 1986-87 fees will be addressing 
(idem Senate. Skibo Wherrett Room, 7 pm.
eryone welcome.
Say Can You SeeVisual Delight in
design, presented by William Tao, president 
jWilliam Tao Associates, as a part of the 
partment of Architecture Spring Lecture
fies. Wean Hall 7500, 8 pm.
Art
w Stamps and artwork made by rubber 
nps will be on exhibit at Hunt Library unFr'day, March 15. Display features stamps 
six private collections, wearable art, mail
I and book art. Also included are magazines 
books about rubber stamps as well as a 
r ^ a contemporary Polish artist who 
[es ^is stamps from rubber erasers to cir[Vent government licensing of rubber 
Ps in his country. Exhibit assembled by 
Pisciotta and Jill Diskin of the Libraries.
|ns, a group of twenty Pittsburgh women, 
works on exhibit at the Courthouse 
|eiVForum until March 22. The Cour^ Gallery/Forum is on the First floor foyer 
hda Urt^0use on Grant St. Forum hours: 
f y trough Friday, 8:30 am to 4:30 pm.
I ^ Movies
I 1 Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers
Lj KS Double Bill Swing Time.
1 c[f U^eronie Kern-Dorothy Field music
|Fle^SiC Boian8*es dance, and Follow
|nset ^0re dancing to fabulous Irving
Pittshurgh Playhouse, 7:30 onpfiission $2.95.
How . Music
hni rClla*Wit^ Liane Sharp, french horn. 
ni Concert Hall, 8 pm.
George Gee and the Make-Believe Ballroom 
Orchestra plays at Graffiti for Swing Era Dress 
Up Night. Prizes and fun.
Clubs
AIESEC meets in Skibo 11 at 4:30 pm.
CMU Peace Alliance meets in Skibo 45 at 5 
pm. Current discussion centers on the Soft
ware Engineering Institute. Everyone 
welcome.
Astronomy Club meets in Doherty Hall 2304 
at 8:30 pm.
Lectures
Atlanta: From the Aesthetic to the Pragmatic, 
presented by Gerald Garland of Richar Meier 
& Partners as a part of the Architecture 
Seminar Series. College of Fine Arts 206, 11:30 
am.
* Movies 
\ / I Last Tango in Paris. DohertyJL JL Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8:30 pm, 11
pm. Admission $1. Sponsored by Activits 
Board.
Room Service, starring The Marx Brothers, 
Lucille Ball, Ann Miller, Frank Albertson. A 
producer tries to save himself and his play 
from eviction from a hotel. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Music
Camegie-Mellon Wind Ensemble, directed by 
Keith Lockhart. Alumni Concert Hall, 8 pm.
The Flying Cunninghams, a bluegrass group, 
play at Weathervane Coffehouse of Mellon 
Center, Chatham College, 8 pm.
Sports
Womens Swimming National at Emory 
University in Atlanta, Georgia.
Clubs
Explorers Club plans rock climbing and 
kayaking trips. Everyone welcome. Skibo 12, 
6:30 pm.
__ Movies
1 c^ The Philadelphia Story: JL Katherine Hepburn, Jimmy
Stewart, Cary Grant, Ruth Hussey. An 
American comedy of manners about a woman 
who must choose amongst a snobbish fiance, 
her ex-husband, and a reporter. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Ad
mission $2.95.
Sports
Womens Swimming Nationals at Emory 
University in Atlanta, Georgia.
Movies1Hair, starring John Savage, JL \^J Treat Williams. A joyous, 
imaginative view of the 00 s with outstand
ing music and dance sequences. Rated PG. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm,
11:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Womens Swimming Nationals at Emory 
University in Atlanta, Georgia.
Clubs
Game Club meets in Skibo 11 at 1 pm.
______ Movies1 "7/ La Traviata, starring Teresa JL / Stratas, Placido Domingo, Cor
nell Mac Neil. James Levine and the 
Metropolitan Opera Orchestra and Chorus in 
a lavish Verdi opera. Rated G. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Fiction and Poetry 
Reading by Cathleen Barnhart, Caleb Corkery, 
and Kristin Kovacic, sponsored by CMU 
Writers Guild. Refreshments served. Forbes 
Gallery, 7:30 pm.
Music
University of Pittsburgh Womens Chorale 
presents a spring concert featuring works by 
Bach, Morley, Mendelssohn and Rossini, as 
well as twentieth century theater music. Frick 
Fine Arts Auditorium, University of Pittsburgh, 
3:30 pm. For more information, call 624-4126.
Art
Pittsburgh Plan for Art displays the work of 
fourteen artists that run through Sunday, April 
14. Exhibits include Five with Byte, a selec
tion of computer generated art; Dale Luces 
New Machines, twelve small sculptural pieces. 
Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 407 Craig St. Gallery 
Hours: Tuesday through Saturday from 10 am 
jto 5 pm; Sunday from 1 pm to 5 pm.
Movies
1 QSmall Change, starring JL Geory Desmouceaux, Phillipe
Goldman, Claudio Deluca. Delightful and 
warm Truffaut film about children and their 
attempts at maturity. Rated PG. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Clubs
A Phi O meets in Doherty Hall 2210 at 7 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Movies
V-* J The World of ApuPart III of JL the Apu Trilogy, starring Soumitra
Chatterjee, Sarmita Tagore. The conclusion of the 
Apu trilogy. Apu gets married and attempts to e^rn 
a living as a writer. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Fencing NCAA Championships for Men at Univer
sity of Notre Dame.
Movies
onI I All That Jazz, starring Roy 
V>/ Scheider, Ann Reinking, Leland 
Palmer, Jessica Lange, Ben Vereen. Choreographerdancer-director Bob Fosse masterminded this 
musical about a choreographer-dancer-director and 
the world backstage. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm, 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Fencing NCAA Championships for Men at Univer
sity of Notre Dame.
21
Movies
Once Upon a Time in America, 
Robert DeNiro, James Woods, 
Elizabeth McGovern, Tuesday Weld. The rise and 
fall of Jewish childhood pals on New Yorks Lower 
East Side. Uncut version previously unseen in Pitt
sburgh. Rated^R. Pitts-burgh Playhouse, 7:30 only. 
Admission $2.95.
Sports
Mens Swimming Nationals at Emory University in 
Atlanta, Georgia.
99
Movies
The Big Chill, starring William 
tmmk Hun, Neil Goldblum, Glen Close, Jo 
Beth Williams. 1960s friends get together in the 
1980s to figure out their lives. Excellent music. 
Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 
11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Plays
The Ruling Class, by Peter Barnes; directed by W. 
Stephen Coleman. A saucy satire in which an Earl 
is plucked from a mental institution, where his iden
tity as Jesus Christ has gone substantially unques
tioned. Opens tonight at 8 pm with performances 
running Thursdays through Saturdays at 8 pm, Sun
days at 2 pm, until April 6. Admission $4.50 to $6.50 
(price range for run of show). Ticket information 
at 624-4101.
Stephen Foster Memorial Theater, Forbes Ave. in 
Oakland.
Grease, presented by Central Catholic High School, 
8 pm. Admission $3.
Music
Touchstone, featuring Triona Ni Dhomhnaill of the 
legendary Bothy Band, presents a concert of Irish 
traditional music with a hint of bluegrass at Graf
fiti, 4615 Baum Blvd, 8 pm. Tickets $7 in advance 
at the Irish Design Center, Kaufmans and Graffiti, 
$9 at door.
Sports
Mens Swimming Nationals at Emory University in 
Atlanta, Georgia.
Movies
9:Xf r ^ North by Northwest, starring 
mmmd Cary Grant, Eva Marie Saint, Jesse
Royce Landis, James Mason. Suspense tale covers 
a lot of territory and presents Hitchcock at his peak. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:50 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Plays
Grease, presented by Central Catholic High School, 
8 pm. Admission $3.
The Ruling Class. See listing for Friday, March 22. 
Music
Pittsburgh Civic Orchestra, conducted by Ian 
Gallacher, performs Tchaikovskys Fifth Symphony, 
Op. 64 in E minor, arias from Mozarts The Magic 
Flute, and more. Tickets $3.50 available at the door. 
Andrew Carnegie Free Library Music Hall, 8 pm 
Group information at 883-4732.
Keynote Productions presents: Jazz That Moves, 
featuring The Kenny Blake Trio with Michael Ben
son, and The Extension, a company of dancers, per
forming at Graffiti, 4615 Baum Blvd., 8 pm Call 
682-4210.continued on page 30

---------------------------------------------------

Page 30The TartanMarch 12, 1985
Bmtt
Utter
where
you
live
continued from page 29
Orchestra Nova performs the Brandenburg Concer
tos. Featured soloists will be Geoffrey Thomas, harp
sichord; Filia Caloyer, violin; Marion Turner and 
Wendy Kumar, flutes; Rise Kostelnik, oboe; and 
John Kulp, trumpet. Gateway High School, 
Monroeville, 8 pm. Tickets $4 can be reserved 
through the Monroeville Arts Council, 247-4854, or 
can be bought at the door.
Sports
Mens Swimming Nationals at Emory University in 
Atlanta, Georgia.
* Movies
J / 1 You Cant Take It With You, *1UI JL "starring James Stewart, Jean Arthur, 
Lionel Barrymore, Edward Arnold, Ann Miller, 
Spring Byington. Kaufman and Hart Pulitzer Prize 
Comedy play makes a funny film about an offbeat 
family. Oscars to Capra and the film. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:45 pm. Admission $2.95.
Plays
The Ruling Class See listing for Friday, March 22. 
Music
Junior Recital with George Willis, percussion. Alum
ni Concert Hall, 8 pm.
Movieso c/ Blade Runner, starring Harrison
Ford, Rutger Haner, Sean Young. 
Futuristic thriller set in L.A. in 2019 with excellent 
sets, lots of thrills and excitement. Rated R. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm. Admission 
12.95.
Music
John McCutcheon, folk musician performs with 
hammer, dulcimer, banjo, guitar, fiddle, singing, 
storytelling.
^ Movies
J The Bride Wore Black, starring
mmd Jeanne Morceau, Claude Rich, JeanClaude Brialy, Michel Bouquet. Fine tribute to Alfred 
Hitchcock in this thriller about a woman who tracks 
down the killers of her husband. Bernard Herrman 
score. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Ad
mission $2.95.
Clubs
Student Senate meets in the Skibo Wherrett Room 
at 7 pm.
Lectures
Children of divorced parents support group allows 
students to talk to people who are going through 
it themselves. Counseling Center, E-Tower 
Morewood, 3:30 pm to 5:30 pm.
Gentle Architecture, presented by Malcolm Wells 
as a part of the Department of Architecture Spring 
Lecture Series. Wean Hall 7500, 8 pm.
Movies
O "7f j The Hunger, starring Catherine 
/ Deneuve, David Bowie, Susan Saran
don. Vampires, high fashion, and decadence in a 
series of often striking images that linger in the mind. 
Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Music
George Gee and the Make-Believe Ballroom Or
chestra plays at Graffiti. Also featured is song and 
dance great Shorts Davis.
Clubs
AIESEC meets in Skibo 11 at 4:30 pm.
CMU Peace Alliance meets in Skibo 45 at 5 pm. Cur
rent discussion centers on the Software Engineer
ing Institute. Everyone welcome.
Astronomy Club meets in Doherty Hall 2304 at 8:30 
pm.
Movies
O Qf Jules and Jim, starring Jeanne
iaJ Moreau, Oskar Werner, Henn Serre.
Modern film classic about three Bohemians between 
the wars. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Repulsion. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm. 
Admission $ 1. Sponsored by Activities Board.
Plays
The Ruling Class. See listing for Friday, March 22. 
Music
Nancy Day, performer and composer, performs at 
Weathervane Coffeehouse of Mellon Center, 
Chatham College, 8 pm.
Clubs
Explorers Club plans rock climbing and kayaking 
trips. Everyone welcome. Skibo 13, 6:30 pm.
Movies
onf The Adventures of Buckaroo
GS Banzai, starring Peter Weller, John
Lithgow. Wild and funny science fiction spoof with 
good and bad guys fighting for control of the galaxy. 
Rated PG. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Police Academy Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 
10 pm, 12 pm. Admission $1. Sponsored by Ac
tivities Board.
Plays
Grease, presented by Central Catholic High School, 
8 pm. Admission $3.
The Ruling Class. See listing for Friday, March 22. 
Music
George Gee and the Make-Believe Ballroom Or
chestra plays at the H&SS Spring Fling. Carnegie 
Music Hall.
Movies
I I La Cage Aux Folles, 
/ V/ starring Ugo Tognazzi, Michel Serrault. Classic farce about a pair of aging homosex
uals who set out to fool a government official. Rated 
R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Footloose. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 
12 pm. Admission $1. Sponsored by Student Dor
mitory Council.
Plays
Grease, presented by Central Catholic High School, 
8 pm. Admission $3.
The Ruling Class. See listing for Friday, March 22 
Clubs
Game Club meets in Skibo 11 at L pm.
Charles Cobi
Movies
Heaven Can Wait,
starring Gene Tierney, Don Ameche, 
Charles Coburn, Marjorie Main. Recently deceased 
man tells of his youthful misdeeds to an understan
ding Satan. Not the recent Warren Beatty film. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission 
$ 2.95.
Murder by Death. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 
10 pm. Admission $1. Sponsored by Student Dor
mitory Council.
Plays
The Ruling Class. See listing for Friday, March 22.
Music
George Gee and the Make-Believe Ballroom Or
chestra performs Duke Ellingtons Sacred Concert 
for Palm Sunday, which has not been performed 
anywhere in the world since Ellingtons death in 
1974. Bethany Lutheran Church in Braddock.
1984 Minna Kaufmann Ruud Vocal Awards reci
pients concert preceded by a reception for the 
benefit of the Pittsburgh Opera. Campbell Memorial 
Chapel, Chatham College, 8 pm. For information call 
365-1161.
Sports
Mens Tennis home meet against West Liberty State, 
1 pm.
Clubs
A Phi O meets in Doherty Hall 2210 at 
_______7 pm._________________________________
If you wish to place an announcement, 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or event in 
The Tartan send it in care of the Acme Editor, 
The Tartan, 103 Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon
University, Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; sendit 
campus mail to the above address; or 4 
it off at our offices in 50 Skibo. Events 
be sent through computer mail to ME(jp! 
CMCCTC. Only classified ads will be 
over the phone.
Please include the following 
when submitting events: title of event 
sor, brief description, location, date 
time. In addition, include the name 
phone number of the person submitting 1 
information will be used only to confirm] 
event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
curacy or validity of any Events listim 1 
addition, it reserves the right to edit or ( 
any listing for publication.
Classified ad forms are available in 
office.
All events are free of charge and op 
the general CMU student population un 
otherwise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wed 
day at 5 pm for the next weeks issue. // 
have any comments or suggestions, sendti 
to any of the addresses listed above.
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40ACMU Travel Office

---------------------------------------------------

Finies.
oe FreshmanBy Mark Levine
[jj^iuiuiLg. MCK tri M
Tjj fHt AW MX THE 
jWS^OMENfS Of DESf^OCTlOMll
\l...tARTAWBRG
5AV WHAT?!?]
NAH, %i wr the 
6Rill's Answr. to th5 
"OiG Mac7'/ th  iFHteNce
to&iW 3VmtyMlv85 
ooks itgiRs They
StfP MA KvMGTtttf IKJ f82.
m,
y y
7
oindexter
/ //or1Db
rtpy.TbRM*WKr alvsle cc**)t
3. CAKiT V\E>R K^SQJFWi'iK.*
/
By Maszle and Beyer
m erRbk eVCKl 
Nvy f2A.t>\0
jngape>_ /
university
dining
service
kiltiocofe
MID-DAY
Vegetable Chili 
Chili Con Carne 
Grilled Cheese Sandwich
Lima Bean Casserole 
Sausage Omelette 
BBQ Ham Sandwich
Turkey Tetrazzini 
Hamburgers 
Roman Rice&Beans
BLT Sandwich
Beef Macaroni/Tomatoes
Califlower Marranca
Steak/Onion Sandwich 
Tuna Noodle Casserole 
Swiss Cheese Croquettes
CLOSED
CLOSED
MARCH 11-17 1985
Italian Steak 
Chicken Pot Pie 
Spinach Noodles
Grilled Ham&Cheese 
Rigatoni/Meat Sauce 
Top your own Potato
Cheese Blintzes
Potato Cakes/Corn Beef
Kugel
Vegetarian Pizza 
London Broil 
Shrimp Chow Mein
Fish Split Hoagie 
Turkey Tetrazzini 
Deli Bar
Everyday
Hot/Cold Deli 
Omelette to Order 
Hamburgers & Hotdogs
Menu
kiltie cofe
EVENING
Chicken Hawaiian 
Stuffed Peppers 
Barley Casserole
Fried Perch 
Beef Burgundy 
Stuffed Shells/Sauce
Burritos/Chili 
Baked Ham 
California Quiche
Baked Meatloaf 
Pork Chow Mein 
Eggplant Parra.
CLOSED
CLOSED
CLOSED
Subject To Change
%Cheese Fondue 
Fried Chicken 
Beef Burgundy
Cheese.Spmach &. Rice 
Beef Stew
Baked Haddock/sauce
Cheese/Mush. Quiche 
Chicken Hawuan 
Meatloaf/Gravy
Ch-Ravioli/meatless 
Sausage Omelette 
Turkey Devonshire
CLOSED
Everyday 
Carved Beef or Turkey

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University1985 Summer Session
Tentative Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Summer Sessions
(1)  Offered in the first session(2)  Offered in the second session(1&.2)  Course runs through both sessions (14 weeks)*  Graduate course numberChemistry
Civil Engineering
Computer Science
Mathematics
Mechanical Engineering
Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Science
Physics
Statistics
Biomedical Engineering
Architecture
Design
Music
09-105Dynamics & Equilibria10 units(1)09-117Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)09-218Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
12-110Introductory Engineering Economics9 units(1)12-207Statics9 units(1)12-208Dynamics9 units(2)12-212Solid Mechanics9 units(2)
15-111Intro to Computing Bi Section N9 units(1&2)15-111Intro to Computing & Section O9 units1&2)15-118Intro to Computing C. Section N9 unitsm2)15-118Intro to Computing C. Section O9 units(1&2)15-118Intro to Computing C. Section P9 units(1&2)
21-112Calculus II (H&SS)10 units(1)21-121Calculus I10 unitsCD (2)21-122Calculus and Linear Algebra10 unitsCD (2)21-127Discrete Mathematics of Computer Science9 units(1)(2)
21-259Calculus in Three Dimensions9 unitsCD (2)21-260Differential Equations9 unitsCD (2)
24-112Fluid Mechanics I10 units(1)24-121Thermodynamics 19 units(1)
27-322Process Metallurgy12 units(1&2)27-332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(1&2)27-350Industrial Projects Seminar9 units(18c2)27-390Industrial Internship Option0 units(1&2)27-755'Metallurgical Problemsvar. units(1&2)27-756-Thesisvar. units(1&2)39-300Analysis. Synthesis & Evaluation12 units(1&2)
33-121Physics 1: Mechanics (self-paced)10 units(1) (2}33-122Physics II: Heat Waves & Optics (self-paced)10 unitsCD (2)
33-123Physics III: Electricity & Magnetism (self-paced)10 unitsCD (2)
33 129Electronics 110 units(1)
36-101Statistical Concepts with Computer Applications9 unitsCD (2)
36-209Probability & Applied Statistics for Management & Social Sciences 19 units(1)(2)
36-210Probability 8i Applied Statistics tor Management & Social Sciences II9 unitsCD (2)
36-211Probability & Applied Statistics tor Physical Science & Engineering 19 units(1) (2)
36-212Probability & Applied Statistics for Physical Science & Engineering II9 unitsCD (2)
36-219Statistical Methods tor Data Analysis 19 units(1) (2)36-220Statistical Methods tor Data Analysis II9 units(D(2)36-225Intro to Probability and Statistics 19 units(1)(2)
42-500/735'Physiology9 units(1)42-560BME Undergraduate Projects9 units(2)
48-280Architectural Design level II: Elaboration12 units(1)
51-103Introduction to Design18 units(2)51-122Introduction to Photography9 units(1) (2)
57-151Harmony 16 units(2)57-181Soltege I6 units(2)57-454Jazz Improvisation3 units(2)57-xxxApplied Study in voice, piano organ, violin, vioia. violincelto. string bass, guitar, flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon, french horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba, composition
6-12 units(2)
Industrial Management
Economics
English
History
Psychology
SUFtt
Special Programs
57-867*Administration & Supervision in Music Education6 units(2)
57-873*Principles of Music Education6 units(2)57-875-Contemporary Problems in Music Education6 units(2)
60-117/317/717-Drawing9 units(2)60-224Art and the Computer9 units(2)60-228/328/728*ftalnting9 units(2)60-231/331/731 Beginning Screen Printing9 unitsCD60-233/333/733-Relief9 units(2)60-335Lithography-Screen Printing9 units(1)60-250Ceramics9 units(2)60-361Sculpture9 units(2)60-380/780'Contemporary Art9 units(2)60-381Independent Study: Contemporary Issues in Art History9 unitsOo
60-390Internship  Gallery Experience9 units(2)
70-101Elements of Industrial Administration9 ynits(1)(2)70-121Financial Accounting9 unitsCD (2)70-311Organizational Behavior9 units(1)70-332Government 8i Business9 units(2)70-361Foundations of low9 units(2)70-371Production 19 unitsCD (2)70-381Marketing 19 units(1)70-391Finance 19 unitsCD (2)70-451Management Information Systems9 units(2)
73-100Principles of Economics9 unitsCD (2)73-250Intermediate Microeconomics9 unitsCD (2)73-300Intermediate Macroeconomics9 unitsCD (2)73-360Econometrics9 units(1)
76-100Strategies for Writing9 units(1) (2)76-101Reading Texts9 unitsCD (2)76-170Advanced Exposition9 units(1)(2)76-245Shakespeare9 units(D(2)76-260Survey of Form: Fiction9 units(2)76-265Survey of Forms: Fbetry9 units(1)76-270Writing for the Professions9 units(D(2)76-301Internship0-18 unitsCD (2)76-321,-721Special Topics: Modern Drama9 unitsCD76-322/* 722Visual Documentation and Interviewing9 units(2)
76-360/*760Fiction Workshop9 unitsCD76-420/-820Special Topics: Contemporary Literature9 unitsCD
76-45V-851Studies in American Literature9 units(2)76-471Internship in Technical Writing and Editing9 unitsCD (2)
76-901*Internship: English3 units(2)
79-220Contemporary America: A History through Film9 unitsCD
79-307Twentieth Century America9 units(2)79-356The Second World War9 unitsCD
85-101General Psychology9 unitsCD85-110Intro to Symbolic Programming (LISP)9 unitsCD
90-710Management Information Systems12 units(2)90-761Organizational Management II12 unitsCD90-764Economic Principles of Ftolicy Analysis12 units(2)90-778Personnel Management12 unitsCD90-779Strategic MarketingCommunications12 units(2)90-789Computer Programming12 unitsCD
European Studies Program:BM?IS. 1985 - June 4-July 27 GERMANY AND AUSTRIA. 1985 - June 3-July 26CARRIBBEAN. 1985 - May 20-July 12
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra/ Carnegie-Mellon University SUMMER MUSIC INSTITUTE June 24 through August 2
School of Urban & Public Affairs QSSI/QSSP Workshop June 10 through August 1
Carnegie-Mellon University, during the 
summer, 1985, will hold two seven-week 
sessions as follows:
1st seven-week session 
May 14-June 28 
2nd seven-week session 
July 1-August 16 
Undergraduate Tuition:
$74 per unit* *  All undergraduates
Graduate Tuition:$139 per unit* * - CFA/H&SSCIT/MCS/SUPA 
$153 per unit* *  GSIA
* *  3 units = 1 credit
This is a "tentative" list of courses to be 
offered. The actual list of courses includ
ing class schedules will be announced 
and published depending upon student 
response.
Application materials and further infor
mation will be mailed upon receipt of 
your inquiry..
Please give your tentative reply as soon 
as possible by completing the attached 
form and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Phone: (412) 578-6620
Carnegie-Mellon University
Name___________________________
Mailing Address __________________
Present School
I am interested in the following courses:
Course No.TitleSession
Please return this form to: 
Director, Summer Studies * 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890

---------------------------------------------------

Greek Sing 1985
A nintrfll ci inr\lmnf

---------------------------------------------------

Photos by 
Olve Peer sen, 
Mike Pilewski, and Dina Duhl
Pledging Phi Kappa Theta: "You must answer the phone within three
Lothair Eaton of SAE extoils the benefits of Oklahoma life.
Cover photo by Mike Pilewski.

---------------------------------------------------

A Kap pa Sigma brother bathes with his Rubber Duckie.
Delta Gammas enact a movement from Jesus Christ Superstar.
Computerland 
(sung to the tune of Never never land)
I know a place where files are 
stored
and style is just a command 
Its part of CMU 
Where I never have a clue 
in Computerland
You 7/find a u-ser consultant 
there
Dont hack at your own risk 
He knows about getting you 
where-ever you slip your soft 
floppy disk
And that's my home where 
dreams are born 
in Lisp, Pathcal, and Fortran 
Call me a crazy guy 
But I'll love the SEI forever 
In Computerland
Delta Tau Delta
'hris 0l|ver and Christine Hayes emceed the event.

---------------------------------------------------

Members of the Theta Xi circus ensemble maintain I
A Kiltie employee serves a typical food service meal.
Another Frat Off the Quad
(To the tune of The Wall,)
We don t need no booth or buggy.
We dont need no IFC.
No dark sarcasm in the courtroom.
While the dean sits on his throne.
Hey Walter! Leave them Zebes alone!
All in all its just another frat off the quad. 
All in all its just another frat off the quad.
Dean has kicked the Zebes off campus 
leaving just a memory 
a snapshot in the Thistle yearbook 
for brothers through eternity
Hey Walter! Leave them Zebes alone!
All in all its just another frat off the quad. 
All in all its just another frat off the quad.
Pi Lambda Phi
If you wantm 
dont go to Ki 
because you'lll 
It makes me si 
has somethin$
Some say foodl 
I say food thm 
should be keptj
Its the burm 
with which P 
Its the meatlo\
That reminds]
Its thefrencbI 
that it could A 
and the beejl\ 
if the cow hrt
When they s 
where you ft1 
and they tM 
and bring ^
Just remeffltt 
after KilMsj 
theres a 
where
Spectators in the first balcony watch intently.

---------------------------------------------------

The Cafe
tune of The Rose)
jr appetite, 
something orange 
live inside.
lunger, an endless, aching need.
ilflife 
m me. 
|es like brillo 
Icrub a sink. 
\eighs sixteen tons 
I rubbish stinks.
so greasy 
the floor 
you wonder
)re.
Karon i 
| umps 
ioctor 
lch pumps. 
ynmer 
town
|'Mown Pittsburgh
be found.
Pi Lambda Phi
Kappa Alpha Thetas spirited performance of Aint Misbehavin netted a first 
place trophy in sorority competition.
Delta Delta Deltas Chorus Line won an award for second place.
Kappa Kappa Gamma members in disguise.

---------------------------------------------------

A drill sergeant leods Sigma Nu in their very awn "Zoo Tunes.
Falling through the House 
Watch out!
I might fall thru the rafter! 
Pi Lamb-da!
I dont know what Vm after 
I guess I thought I ought to 
try
Falling thru the house!
Close enuff to be a guest 
but not at Sigma Nus request 
Greek roofer for hire
Tried to get in thru the glass 
three flights later broke my 
ass
My house bill's gonna be 
higher!
Delta Tau DeltaThe spotlight was on Chi Omega early in the evening.

---------------------------------------------------

Rap(?)
Warner Hall 
the second floor 
I asked the lady 
can I have some work 
She said no!
you best get some work 
I said freshen up momma 
I aint no jerk 
Cuz I been all around 
and I aint employed 
You gotta get me a job 
or Ill get annoyed 
She said you can bus tables 
at the Kiltie Cafe 
but first you gotta be 
on financial aid 
I said dont you know 
Reagan gave me the cut 
He said hey ho cuz! 
you gotta sit on ya butt 
Now I cant 
even pay my rent 
he cut education 
twenty-five per cent 
So rock yer body 
till the early dawn 
When the morning comes 
your moneys gone
HOOOOOOOOOOOOOOE! 
HARD TIMES!
CMU aint so much fun 
but I live in Pittsburgh 
because its number 1!
The sun dont come up 
around Pittsburgh, P.A. 
but it dont matter 
cuz Im hacking all day 
I can only get warm 
inside the Tartan Grill 
and when Escort dont run 
ya know I feel the big chill
A teetering David Byrne prepares to fall through Sigma Nus skylight.
They say they picked
up their pride
but I lived in Shirley, Carol
Hampshire Shadyside
Ya think a rennaissance town
and a hi-tech school
Might make my mind and
body
fresh and cool!
Graduation
Imma leaving this town 
Im moving up 
cuz I been low down 
They say times is hard 
I know what they mean 
Cuz I been to CMU and now 
I got the green.
Delta Tau Delta
Some clowns from Theta Xi tauntingly invite the audience to join their circus.

---------------------------------------------------

Quality of performances rated
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Features Editor
Greek Sing 1985 was, as usual, a suc
cess. This review, like the trophies, is 
secondary to the real winners 
Alzheimers Disease and Related Disorders 
of Western Pennsylvania, for whom Greek 
Sing netted between $3,500 and $4,000.
The true losers were the people who 
forgot to show up, and especially the cen
sors in the administration who tried to 
forbid four fraternities from performing.
Two of those fraternities^ Alpha Tau 
Omega and Beta Theta Pi, did not choose 
to participate.
With that said, here wre go. I used the 
same system the judges used, giving ten 
points each for:
1. Group Tone
2. Group Intonation
3. Group Diction
4. Difficulty of Music
5. Difficulty of Performance
6. Appropriateness of Presentation to
Choice of Music
7. Quality of Presentation
8. Originality and
9. Entertainment Value.
Fraternity Competition
FirstDelta Upsilon 
This one took guts. DU surprised 
everyone with selections from II 
Trovatore, an Italian opera, performed in 
the native language. They really got 
around the diction question with this one. 
Their synchronicity in marching was off
at times and the Italian army has to prac
tice their salute a bit. Outside of minor 
details like those, however, the opera ex
periment payed off. Italian opera isnt my 
forte, but to my ears they sounded good. 
But, sound alone, however, would only 
have tied them with the next three com
petitors. The sheer originality and difficul
ty of this act, however, launched them 
ahead of the rest of the pack.
1. 8 2. 7 3. 7 4. 9 5. 7 6. 7 7. 
7 8. 9 9. 7 Total 68
SecondSigma Alpha Epsilon 
Youre doin fine SAEand you would 
have scored even higher had the scoring 
system given more weight to soloists. 
Lothair Eaton began and ended with 
solos of selections from Oklahoma! with 
the richest voice east of the Rockies. SAE 
couldnt have done as well without Eaton, 
but they certainly werent without other 
attributes. The choreography done
American square dance proud, and the
cow, scarecrow and conductor used for 
comic relief proved serious shows can 
also have a sense of humor.
1. 7 2.1 3-5 4. 5 5. 8 6. 7 7.
7 8. 5 9. 6 Total 57
Third (tie)Pi Kappa Alpha 
Pikas selections from Willie Wonka 
& The Chocolate Factory also had an 
excellent soloist in Joe Mancuso, and the 
plot was as similar to the actual 
storyline as a group could fit into seven 
minutes. In fact, had the audience pick
ed the winner, Pika would, no doubt, 
have won. But Pika lacked heavy par
ticipation from a majority of the players 
and the complicated choreography that 
placed SAE above Pika.
L 6 2. 6. 3. 7 4. 5 5 5 6.7 7. 
6 8. 6 Total 56
Sue Cavanaugh sings out with the spirit of Kappa Alpha
ThirdPhi Kappa Theta
I know Ill get heat for picking this sap
py advertisement to show, but this com
mercial was better even then Geraldine 
Ferraros. I dont know any Phi Kaps, but 
this act almost made me want to pledge. 
Revolving around a horrific initiation 
ceremony, the black-cloaked brothers haz
ed a pledge, making him do demonic acts 
like answer the telephone before three 
rings. Not only was it funny, but it was 
also good. I just hope the Press and the 
Post-Gazette dont get a hold of this one.
1. 5 2. 6 3. 7 4. 5 5-5 6. 7 7.
6 8. 8 9. 6 Total 56
FifthKappa Sigma 
Funny things are happening in show biz 
these days. Kappa Sigs Jesus Christ 
Superstar looked a lot like Grease last 
year. This year Superstar looked like 
Superstar, but KSs Oh Calcutta! was 
suspiciously similar to Sesame Street. 
Kappa Sig probably didnt want to annoy 
the almighty censors with the traditional 
Oh Calcutta!
In any case, Sesame Street was fun
ny. Just imagine Kappa Sigs as wild-eyed 
postmen; hookers in your 
neighborhood and rubber duckies on a 
firing line. You get the picture. Somebody 
had to do it; ATO and Beta werent there.
1. 4 2. 4 3.5 4. 3 5. 4 6. 8 7.
4 8. 8 9. 7 Total 47
SixthSigma Nu 
Imagine a version of Stripes in which 
you cant understand any of the slurred 
and sputtered words, and youve got 
Sigma Nu this year. My guess is that our 
censors disallowed Sigma Nus usual ab
surdity they do so well. The result wasnt 
even funny. Too bad Mark Estes 
graduated.
1. 3 2. 3 3. 3 4. 4 5. 2 6. 7 7.
3 8. 4 9. 5 Total 34
Sorority Competition
FirstKappa Alpha Theta 
Thetas selections from Aint 
Misbehavin ran away with first this year, 
and its no wonder. Theta hired a profes
sional to coach them. Considering that, 
Theta should have been better.
Several times the dancers were out of 
and two Thetas were late joining the 
kickline for the finale. Also, this show re
quired a deep-voiced lead to carry it ef
fectively. For most acts, these considera
tions are too minor to mention. But when 
a professional element is added, the group 
has to be judged by harsher standards. 
Nonetheless, Thetas tap was in most cases 
polished, and the vocal, while lacking 
tone, was technically good; the highspirited scat solo near the end drew 
cheers from the audience.
1. 6 2. 7 3. 8 4. 6 5 9 6. 8 7.
8. 7 9. 7 Total 65
SecondDelta Delta Delta 
DDD tried to do too much with selec
tions from A Chorus Line. Its a show 
designed specifically for dancers, and, 
while it was a brave attempt, it was disap
pointing. It would be unfair to mark DDD 
too low for not being dance majors, but 
the choreography takes so much concen
tration that the electricity needed to pull 
off this show was missing. Good diction 
and volume, in spite of the difficult 
choreography, saved this act.
1. 7 2. 6 3. 7 4. 5 5. 7 6. 7 7.
5 8. 5 9. 6 Total 55
Third(tie)Delta Gamma 
This was a step up for DG. At times the 
words in selections from Jesus Christ 
Superstar couldnt be adequately 
understood, and the singers werent in 
chorus with one another at other times. 
DG did, however, have nice tone and per
formed difficult choreography in step. If
DG can continue this kind of irnproy I 
ment, theyll soon be trophy winners 
1. 7 2. 6 3 5 4. 5 5. 6 6. 7 7| 
6 8. 5 9. 6 Total 53
ThirdChi Omega(tie)
Chi O also had trouble with harmon 
but put on a nice, polished presentatin 
of Damn Yankees. They all did a g0 
job of going to their places, and the TaJ 
tan uniforms helped create a team 
mosphere, but the obvious absence 
Whatever Lola Wants demonstrate 
superficial quality of an otherwise fair per| 
formance. The seductive solo by th 
Devils handmaiden would not only ha 
lent more to Chi Os plot but might havi 
placed them higher than a tie for third
1. 5 2.7 3. 7 4.5 5. 6 6. 7 I
5 8. 5 9. 6 Total 53
FifthKappa Kappa Gamma 
Kappas major problems in selection 
from The Jungle Book were fixable 
Kappa has several good dancers wh 
could have helped the rest. Cut outtb 
difficult three-part harmony near the en 
and raise the volume a bit, and this sho 
could have been respectable. Giva 
another week of practice, Kappa wou 
have done better.
1. 4 2. 6 3. 7 4. 7 5. 5 6. 7
4 8. 5 9. 4 Total 49
Mixed
FirstDelta Tau Delta 
Again, this choice is going to get mej 
trouble. But the mixed category was,i 
contrast to the other two divisions, sJ 
par this year. And if the scoring system! 
strictly followed, DTDs original selej 
tions by the mysterious (he isnt listed] 
enrolled at CMU) Peter Cortland takef 
place. To the best of my knowledge, 
is the first time any group has donel 
halfway serious attempt at original lyril 
with choreography (The lyrics wereT 
funny as PiLams, if not funnier, so we| 
running both in this supp 
ment).Granted, the quality of the sing 
wasnt phenomenal, but the originality] 
homemade lyrics with choreograp! 
coupled with the entertainment value p 
DTD over the top.
1. 4 2. 6 3. 6 4. 4 5- 6 6.8
6 8. 7' 9. 9 Total 56
SecondPi Lambda Phi 
The lyrics were funny and poignanj 
usual, but the originality is gone. M 
year, Pi Lam walks away with first pij 
on the sweat of several songwriter 
voice quality alone.
This year it wasnt enough. About 
the singers wore smiles, while the 0 
half were dour-faced. If Pi Lam wa 
regain their crown, theyre going tot 
to also regain enthusiasm and add a 
choreography as well. .
1. 7 2.7 3. 8 4. 5 5- 1 62|
8 8. 5 9. 9 Total 52
ThirdTheta Xi 
Our expert judges placed sekj 
from Barnum first. But I, the 
found, Theta Xi mediocre. Due to I 
diction and low volume, wor 
often difficult to understand,an(it J 
really-hard dance steps were son^ 
off. Beyond tfiose complaints 
wasnt that bad, but they also ^
good as one might expect irom 
1. 5 2. 6 3. 5 4. 5 5- 5
6 8. 5 9. 5 Total 48
Editor's Note: In order to avoidl, 
bias, the section on Chi 
author dates a Chi O) was u>r^ \ 
rated by Stephen G. Volan, Tartanin-Cbief. For further Greek Sing1
tion, see the News section.
