*- G A R N E G I E
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 56  NUMBER 15WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1964
Spring Semester Assembly 
Presents New Panther Hollow
Mr. M. Frederik Smith, president of the Oakland Cor
poration, will address the first assembly of the spring 
semester, Tuesday, February 11. Elected to this position in 
1962, he heads a. private, non-profit organization owned and 
directed by Pittsburghs educational and scientific institu
tions, which is planning a cultural and educational community 
in Panther Hollow or the Oak
land District. Carnegie Tech is a 
member of the project.
Construction on the first sec
tion of the center will begin this 
spring and should be completed 
by 1966. When finished, the re
modeled ravine will house legiti
mate theatres, restaurants and 
shops, a computer center, labo
ratories, and other facilities for 
scientific research.
Mr. Smith has long experi
ence in the field of public rela
tions. advertising and manage
ment, which began when he was 
in his teens. Born in Fort Wayne, 
Indiana, he was advertising man
ager of a local corporation before 
he graduated'- from high school. 
After studying at the University 
of Michigan and William and 
Mary College, he became public 
relations director for Batten, Bar
ton. Durstine and Osborn, an ad
vertising agency, before he was 
30.
Later he held the same posi
tion with the Young and Rubicam agency. He was Assistant to 
the Secretary of the Treasury 
during World War II, working 
with Secretary Morgenthau on 
both domestic and international 
affairs. ;
Shortly after World War II, Mr, 
Smith originated and designed the 
Phoenix Project', a wide-scope 
atomic research project at the 
(continued on page 6)
Lack of Heat 
Steams Tech; 
H20 Main Pops
Last Thursday, January 9, the 
Operations and Maintenance De
partment of Carnegie Tech had a 
big headache with which to cope. 
In the basement of Machinery 
Hall, where steam is produced 
which services about 75% of the 
campus buildings, an electrical 
panel box had become short-cir
cuited.
A flash fire ensued, sending one 
electrician to the hospital with 
minor flash burns (he was releas
ed soon after). The stokers, mean
while, were left with. no power 
to fire the boilers.
Late into the afternoon, the 
workmen hand-fed the boilers in 
an attempt to maintain the heat, 
but the steam pressure held at 
only five pounds. Aid from an em
ergency transformer was later en
listed from the Duquesne Power 
and Light Company who had been 
notified of the difficulty.
Bulletins were sent to all of 
the dormitories serviced by Ma
chinery Hall urging the students 
to keep all windows closed. In 
Skibo, where hot water is produc
ed by steam from the same source, 
(continued on page 2)
Librarys Rare Book-Fine Art Floor 
Formally Opens to Public on Friday
Spring Semester Registration 
Begins, Monday, February 3
Registration for the Spring Se 
mester 1964, will be held on Mon
day and Tuesday, February 3 and
4, from 8:30 a.m. until 4:00 p.m. 
both days. Students will regis
ter according to the following 
schedule:
1. AU students residing in tfr 
Pittsburgh district will reg
ister on Monday, February 3.
2. All others will register on 
Tuesday, February 4.
Penalty for late registration is 
$10.00 for the first day; $5.00 ad
ditional for the second day; an 
additional $1.00 per day thereafi ter up to $20.00 maximum.
Registration of day students for 
the Spring Semester will be simi
lar to that of last year. Repre
sentatives of the Registrars Of
fice will be located in areas ad
jacent to each department. All the 
necessary steps to complete aca
demic registration will be per
formed by these representatives. 
However, undergraduate students 
who have not prepaid their fees 
must report to the Cashiers Of
fice, A.H. 155.
The Steps to be accomplished 
are as follows:
1. All students except Fresh
men in MMCC, E & S.-and 
Industrial Management re
port to department offices 
for approved schedules (four 
copies for all students) and 
-Registration Packet.
. a. E & S and Industrial
Management Fresh
men report to Dean 
Wells in Scaife Hall Lob
by.
b. MMCC Freshmen report 
to Miss Lloyd, M.M. 107.
2. Fill out all copies of sched
ule and the Registrars Card.
3. Secure signatures on all cop
ies of schedule cards.
4. Go to the checkout desk 
which will be located in your 
departmental or designated 
area. At this point, regis
tration will be completed for 
prepaid students.
5. Proceed to Cashiers Office, 
A.H. 155, to pay fee, dor
mitory or other charges and 
get a receipt.
6. All graduate students will 
make financial settlement 
during the period February 
19, 20, 21 from 9:00 a.m. VOL 
12:00 noon and 1:00 p.m. 
to 3:20 p.m.
7. The Financial A i d Office 
will be located in A.H. 150. 
Scholarship holders should 
stop at this office before pro
ceeding to the Cashiers Of
fice. Also, students who re
quire short-term notes should 
arrange for them through 
this office before proceeding 
to the Cashiers Office.
A graduation fee of $10.00 is 
charged to every candidate for a 
degree and is payable at regis
tration, February 3 and 4, for 
Commencement on June 8, 1964.
CFP Rush 
Begins in Feb.
C.F.P.-sponsored second semes
ter rush begins the second week 
in February* Again the Tech fra
ternity system is offering to dorm 
students and commuters the op
portunity of becoming more fa
miliar with fraternities and the 
increasing role which they are 
playing on campus. Students are 
encouraged by all fraternities to 
attend the orientation meetings 
and rush events, at the individual 
fraternity houses.
Techs fraternities are continu
ally seeking interested students 
who have the initiative to further 
themselves socially, culturally; 
and academically. Fraternities 
offer just this opportunity for de
veloping by providing, among 
other things, speaker programs on 
a wide variety of subjects and 
study help-sessions by qualified 
upperclassmen to assist their 
members in maintaining their
Finals Week; 
Beards Appear
Have you noticed any students 
with beards walking around cam
pus recently? If you have, more 
than likely they are Sigma Nus. 
In keeping with a natural desire 
to grow a beard during finals, 
Sigma Nu is having a beard-grow
ing contest amongst its members.
Begun on January 5, the contest 
is running for two weeks 'til Jan
uary 19. At that time prizes will 
be awarded to the best beard, the 
longest, the grubbiest etc.
The entry fee is 50c per person 
will be donated to UMOC later 
on this year. Also, Sigma Nu will 
again have its auction this Spring 
to raise more money for UMOC.
Photo? by Tom Davies
. Planned for Friday, January 17, is the formal opening 
of the new Rare Book and Fine Arts' Floor of the Hunt 
Library., While (during the exhibition of the Plantin Mor-1 
teus Museum) students were first introduced to the facili
ties last December, the fourth floor now consolidates all 
?reference material (including bound magazines) which relates to the representative fine arts of Carnegie Tech.
This areg, originally not in
tended for use until 1970, was 
planned from donations by an 
anonymous party for the primary 
function of housing rare books. 
The final designs, with inclusion 
of a complete fine arts reference 
section, were mapped out b7 
Architects Warner, Burns, Tpan, 
and Lunde of New York City.
The transferred expansion of 
the fine arts section has conse-. 
quentiy effected an enlargement 
of the Science and Engineering 
Departments on the third floor. 
It too consolidates all reference 
material for the students and in
cludes scientific journals which 
were previously shelved in the 
basement.
There, too, with the absence 
of bound art and science maga
zines, more storage space has 
been provided. The remainder of 
shelved periodicals in the base
ment comprises.the regular stock 
of humanity and other non-artand-science magazines.
With these changes, though, 
perhaps the most important con
cerns the objective of contain
ment for both the third and 
fourth floors. To accomplish this, 
the fine arts and the science and 
engineering floors now feature 
their own complete -Ceird cata* 
logues.
Not affected by the library's 
modifications are the facilities of 
the second floor.
Some of the new conveniences 
which have-been installed on the 
fourth floor Rare Book and Fine 
Arts section are music listening 
booths, current magazines on ver-, 
tical displays, and typing booths, 
(continued on page
Graphics Assn. 
Plans Meeting
The Technical Association of 
the Graphic Arts, the worlds 
largest professional society of en
gineers and scientists concerned 
with modern printing technology, 
will hold its 16th annual meeting 
in Pittsburgh next May 3l-June 3.
Kenneth G. Sheid, head of the 
department of graphic arts, and 
the general chairman of the meet
ing, explained, In the next few 
years, Pittsburgh is going to be
come a world center of scientific 
research and development in 
printing processes and materials. 
The decision by TAGA to meet 
here reflects this areas growing 
interest in the technical advance
ment of printing.
The tentative program of the 
TAGA meeting calls for scientific 
papers to be presented on tone 
and color reproduction, mechanic
al engineering developments, 
printability, press and plate, pro
blems, and electronics and com
puters applied to printing. Field 
trips will be-made through Car
negie Techs graphic arts labora
tories and thruogh laboratories of 
the Mellon Institute.
FINANCIAL AID 
Upperclass financial aid ap
plications for t h e 1964-65 
academic year are now avail* 
able in the Financial Aid .Of* 
fice, A. H. 150. Applications 
are to be completed and re
turned no later than March 
15, 1964.

---------------------------------------------------

>are   CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday; January 15, 1964
BULLETIN BOARD
Kiltie Band
Carnegie Tech's Kiltie Band will 
present a concert at the Carnegie 
Music Hall, Sunday, February 9, 
at 8:30 p.m. Tickets will be avail
able at the door.
Opera
Tickets for the opera "LA FOR
ZA DEL DESTINO with Richard 
Tucker, are now on sale in the 
Office of the Dean, College of Fine 
Arts. Date of opera  January 23 
and January 25. Price of tickets:
Thursday: $1.50; Saturday: 
and $2.10.
Porter Garnett
An exhibit of 155 examples of 
prize winning typography and 
graphic design is being displayed 
in the Porter Garnett Gallery 
through January 2,4.
The show is open to the public 
on weekdays from 9:00 a.m. until 
5:00 p.m. and oh Saturdays from 
9:00 a.m. until noon.
Classified Ads
HOOTENANNY!Folk GnUar
School of Music
extras included,
Strand
Starts Wednesday, Jan. 8
FIRST PGH. SHOWING
LiLbraa
COLUMBIA PICTURES presents A CAROL MH) nooucnm  LAURENCE LEE ALAMHMVEY REMICK NOES
WMfflm-----------------1 PANMsmrI BflEOHiuG am \
Coming: "Flute & Arrow
WHERE ELSE
But From the Factory Author
ized Dealer such as M. W. 
Motors can you get a new
VOLKSWAGEN
with everything on It, and In It, that goes with it. Service booklet with 300 and 3,000 mile Inspections, Instruction manual. Factory Installed U.S. spedhonored by every authorized VW
M. W. Motors also has the best 
values in used VWs.
Today's Best Buy
62 VOLKSWAGEN 
STATION WAGONFolly equipped, low mileage
$1095
M. W. Motors
731 Butler St Bt. 8, Etna 
Pittsburgh 23, Fa.
T. 1-5671 HU. 6-1810
.Attention SENIOR and GRADUATE MEN Students
Who Need Some FINANCIAL HELP in Order to Complete Their 
Education This Year and Will Then Commence Work.
Apply to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION, INC.A non-lrofil Educational Fdn, U10 ENDICOTT BLDG., ST. PAL'L J, MINN.
UNDERGRADS, CLIP AND SAVE BBHMBIBfl
STUDENT TRfiYEL...
STUDENTS CAN AFFORD I
GENERAL INTEREST 
PROGRAMS 
Over 25 itineraries featuring 
Western & Central Europe 
. , . Scandinavia ...
Israel . . . Spain 
Greece . . . British
STUDY TRAVEL 
PROGRAMS 
French and Spanish Language
America Politics and Economics... Some Scholarship atance available.
SPECIAL 
INTEREST 
PROGRAMS 
Festivals of Music and Art. ..Bike and Hosteling . . . WorkV. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION 
Educational Travel. Inc., Dept. CN 
265 MadisonAvenue.NewTork.N.T. 10016 
MUrray Hill 6-6431
STRIA MOSQUE - Sal. High - 8:30
&efei\aiil an cJary
mmM-CACR
ts -V ' -***>
TICKETS: 84.50 - $3.60 - &Z.SQ. Now on downtown; Home Plate Cafe, Oakland, Foey order payable to Shows, In self*addressed stamped envelope.
check or mo632, Pittsburgh 30.
HAMLET ST. THEATER
Another Playhouse Comedy Hit
SUNDAY
IN
NEW YORK
A Comedy by NORMAN KRASNA 
THEATER UPSTAIRS
"DO YOU KNOW
THE MILKY WAY?"
A WAY OUT COMEDY
CRAFT AVE. THEATER 
Beginning Sat., January 18th
THE TENTH MAW
Sun.-Fri. $1.5 Sat. 2.00  Tnes.-Sat. 8:30 Sun. 7:30 
| TICKETS AVAILABLE AT FlTT BOOKSTORE
Sigma Nus Old Faithful 
Turns House Into Sahara
(continued frowi page 1) 
staff operations were ^t a stand
still from want of hot water to 
wash dishes.
That wasnt all! To top eyrything off, a city water main, lo
cated in front of th Sigma Nu 
house, broke last Saturday spew
ing hundreds of gallons of water 
down Morewood Avenue to the 
north, then west down Fifth Ave-r
nue to Neville Street.
With ice choppers and snow 
sho.vels, Pittsburgh police vainly 
worked that evening to clear the 
ice from the two outbound lanes 
of Fifth. Even the salt which they 
scattered over the icy area was A 
not enough to lessen the hazard of 
the frozen water.
Not until Sunday morning did 
(continued 6n page GJ
On Camposwith
(By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys!'* and, 
"Barefoot Boy With Check.)
A GUIDE FOR THE GUIDERS
One of the most interesting academic theories advanced in 
many a long year has recently been advanced by that interest
ing academic theorist, E. Pluribus Ewbank, Ph. D. who holds 
the chair of Interesting Academic Theories at the St. Louis 
College of Footwear and Educational Philosophy. Dr. Ewbank 
said in the last issue of the learned journal, the Mount Rushmore 
Guide to Scholastic Advancement and Presidents Heads, that we 
might be approaching the whole problem of student guidance 
from the wrong direction.
Dr. Ewbank, a highly respected pedagogue and a lifelong 
smoker of Marlboro Cigarettes, (I mention Marlboros for two 
reasons: first, to indicate the scope of Dr. Ewbanks brainpower. 
Out of all the dozens of brands of cigarettes available today, 
Dr. Ewbank has had the wit and taste to pick the one with the 
most flavorful flavor, the most filtracious filter, the most soft 
sort pack, the most flip top Flip Top box: I refer, of course, to 
Marlboro. The second reason I mention Marlboro is. that I get 
paid to mention. Marlboro in this column, and the laborer, you 
will agree, is worthy of his hire.)
But I digress. To return to Dr. Ewbanks interesting theory, 
he contends that most collcge guidance counselors are inclined 
to take the easy way out. That is to say, if a students aptitude 
tests show a talent for, let us say, math, the student is encour
aged to major in math. If his tests show an aptitude for poetry, 
he is directed toward poetry. And so forth.
All wrong, says Dr. Ewbank. The great breakthroughs, the 
startling innovations in, let us say, math, are likely to be made 
not by mathematicianswhose thinking, after all, is constrained 
by rigid rules and principlesbut by mavericks, by noncon
formists, by intuitors who refuse to fall into the rut of reason* 
For instance, set a poet to studying math. He will bring a fresh, 
unfettered mind to the subject, just ae a mathematician will 
bring the same kind of approach to poetry.
By way of evidence, Dr, Ewbank cites the case of Cipher 
Binary, a youth who entered college with brilliant test scores in 
physics, chemistry, and the calculus. But Dr. Ewbank forced 
young Cipher to major in poetry.
The results were astonishing. Here, for example, is young 
Ciphers latest poem, a love lyric of such originality that Lord 
Byron springs to mind. I quote:
He was her logarithm,
She wan his cosine.
Taking their dog with em.
They hastened to go sign
Marriage vows which they joyfully shared,
And wooed and wed and pi r squared.
Similarly, when a freshman girl named Elizabeth Barrett 
Sigafoos came to Dr. Ewbank to seek guidance, he ignored tho 
fact that she had won the Pulitzer prize for poetry when she 
was eight, and insisted she major in mathematics. Again the 
results were startling. Miss Sigafoos has set the entire math 
department agog by flatly refusing to believe that six times 
nine is 54. If Miss Sigafoos is correct, we will have to re-think 
the entire science of numbers andwho knows?possibly open 
up vistas as yet undreamed of in mathematics.
Dr. Ewbanks unorthodox approach to student guidance has 
UM impressed his employers that he was fired last week. He is 
currently selling beaded moccasins at Mount Rushmore.
We, the makers of Marlboro, know only one kind of guid
ance: the direct route to greater smoking pleasure. Try a 
finet Altered Marlboro, available wherever cigarettes are sold In ell fifty states of the Union*

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January 15, 1964  CARNEGIE TARTAN Pce''*.
Facuity, Students, Attend 
Christmas Chapel Service
Carnegie Techs annual Christmas chapel service was 
conducted Tuesday, December 17 at 11:30 a.m. in the lobby 
of the Fine Arts building. Hundreds of students and faculty 
members attended and joined in singing familiar Christmas 
songs.
The music departments brass ensemble, directed by 
Philip B. Catelinet, opened the* 
program with Christmas Chor
ale. An organ prelude of Bing, 
hams Nativity Song was then 
played by Daryl C. Kemerer. The 
entire assembly joined in singing 
O Come, All Ye Faithful' and 
O Little Town of Bethlehem. 
Professor Henry Boettcher of 
the drama department then read 
The Nativity from St. Luke and 
the Reverend Canon Hugh S. 
Clark, from the Church of the 
Redeemer, Squirrel Hill, offered 
a Christmas Prayer. Following
this, everyone sarig It Came 
Upon a Midnight Cle&r and Joy 
to the World.
Richard L. Camp directed the 
Cameron Choir in singing Lost 
in the Night by Christiansen 
and Glory to God in the High
est by Thompson, followed by 
a group singing of . The First 
Nowell and God Rest You 
Merry. The chorus of the de
partment. of music, directed by 
Roland. Leich and student .direcV. S. Naval Dept., GSIA 
Join in Research Project
The United States Office of Naval Research and the 
GSIA have entered into an unusual research agreement call
ing for the establishment of a Management Sciences Re** 
search Group at GSIA.
Part of the new agreement, which will provide an initial 
grant of $115,000 to GSIA calls?---------------------------------------------------------
examining Navy management 
problems und practices as a guide 
to research. Key personnel from 
the Navy and other appropriate 
agencies will be actively involved 
in carrying out the program.
Some of the areas already 
selected for research activity are 
budgeting, .accounting and audit
ing personnel selection, recruit
ment, and promotion. The staff of 
the Management Sciences Re
search Group have backgrounds 
in a wide range of Reids including 
the behavioral and social sciences, 
mathematics, electronic comput
ers, and engineering. In addition, 
all staff members have experience 
in the study of management pro
blems.
Primarily the agreement is di
rected to accelerating the pace at 
which the results of basic scient:<ic research are made available 
to management in the Navy. An 
other part of the program is aimed 
at improving methods for com
municating research results. In 
addition, hew mathematics and 
electronic computer approaches 
are being devised to help advance 
Navy management in areas such 
as scheduling ship repairs and 
ordering and controlling inven 
tories. The grant also calls for 
such direct contact techniques as 
liason personnel, management 
seminors, scientific meetings, and 
educational consulting sessions in
volving Navy personnel and mem
bers of the Management Sciences 
Research Group.
Basically, the agreement enables 
a distinct combination of wide 
range fundamental explorations 
and applied attacks on specific 
management problems to be' unMMCC Awards 
8 Book Grants
Eight seniors in the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College at Car
negie Institute of Technology have 
been awarded Parry Memorial 
Book Grants in recognition of 
their interest in English and ex
cellence in scholarship.
The book grants are given each 
year in memory of Frances Camp 
Parry, head of the department of 
English from 1915 to 1920, and 
consist of a $50 credit in the Car
negie Tech Book Store for each 
recipient to choose books for her 
profit and pleasure.
The following eight seniors are 
awardees of grants for the 1964- 
63 academic year: Suzanne S. Al
len,, Susan I. Broadhead, Clive M. 
Donaldson, Geraldine Eckstein, 
Lois J. Elinoff, Anhabelle Lang 
Gilbert, Margaret Gilboy, and 
Cathy L, Gray.
dertaken by an interdisciplinary 
research team.
The new grant by the Navy is 
further recognition of GSIAs 
position as an innovator in the 
science and practice of manage
ment. Although only thirteen 
years old, the School has achieved 
distinction for its extensive pro
gram of research leading to im
proved solutions of management 
problems, increased knowledge in 
the management sciences, and 
better techniques for the educa
tion of industrial administrators.
tor Diana Dayton, then sang The 
Virgins Slumber Song by Reger 
and To Us is Born Immanuel 
by Pratorius. The audience par
ticipated in singing Hark! the 
Herald Angels Sing.
 In the Presidents Message, Dr.
J. C. Warner defined the signifi
cance of Christmas to those of 
different religious back
grounds and. he extended seasons 
greetings to the assembly. Bear 
trice Krebs sang a solo .of-, the 
first verse of Silent Night, and
was joined in the second and third 
verses by the audience.
Th assembly ended with aft 
organ postliide of Bachs Come, 
Christian Folk. Charles Pearson, 
of th music department faculty, 
was chairman of the program.
COUNT OH CHEVROLET TO BUILD THE ONE YOU WANTi
ONE-STOP CHEVROLET SHOPPING never meant . Chevelle has the room you want in a size you can handle. more than it doea today. Five lines to choose from Chevy IIs handsome in sparkling new trim. Corvairs forstarting with the Jet-smooth luxury Chevrolet, then the 64 enjoy crisp styling accents and more powernearly 19%totally new Chevelle, the better-than-ever Chevy II, sporty more horsepower in the standard engine.The famous CorvettaCorvair, and the exciting Corvette Sting Ray. And youve Sting Rays have a smoother ride and smarter interiors,got 45 models and 22 engines to choose from. JBHLm Put all this choice together and you see whyChevrolet's Impala Super Sport series tops the you can count on Chevrolet to build the one youlineup with luxury youll love to get used to. want in '64! And its at your Chevrolet dealers!
THE GREAT HIGHWAY PERFORMERS Chevrolet  Cheveiie  Chevy n  Corvair  Corvette
See them at your Chevrolet Showroom

---------------------------------------------------

hi* 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. January 15.1*64
Editorial
An Improved Library
Our library staffs many efforts will be 
realized this Friday with the formal open
ing of the new fourth floor. Besides adding 
distinction to the library, the floor will pro
vide new and different facilities for Car
negie Tech students. Despite the staffs 
achievements, students continually com
plain about the administrative procedures 
of the library staff, e.g., the rules concern
ing smoking in the reserve book section 
and use of the elevators.
What students fail to realize is that the 
library does not merely scorn at criticism, 
but welcomes it; wherever possible it tries 
to adjust to meet the pressing needs of the 
student body. This year has seen much 
proof of this fact. New cards allow stu
dents to check out faster. A duplicating 
machine and the library-subsidized Xerox 
service allows students to obtain copies of 
pages from reserve books, saving hours of 
manual transcription at a library table. 
Moreover, graduate students may obtain a 
copy of an article from a bound journal 
rather than checking out the complete vol
ume, as they did last year. This action 
keeps more journals in the reserve section 
of the library, permitting more students to 
make use of them.
The new facilities will provide music 
listening booths and typing booths, a timesaver to the student who wishes to type 
notes directly from reserve books.
Although it has increased the efficiency 
of its operation, the library still faces one 
of its biggest problems: theft. More and 
more books are being stolen from the li
brary. Theft means not only a loss of 
money to the library but also inconven
ience to the many students who must share 
a few reserve books. A satisfactory solu
tion to this problem is yet to be achieved. 
We hope that students cooperate to see 
that this situation does not get out of hand. 
Otherwise, it may lead to unreasonable re
strictions for all of us.
Two suggestions from the student body 
are being presently considered by the li
brary staff: letting students use the ele
vators and extending the library hours on 
Sundays. Many students would like the 
library, to stay open later on weekdays, but 
realize the difficulty in staffing the building 
after .10 p.m. Even now the library hours 
are fairly liberal. However, Sunday is not 
the students day off. Frequently he needs 
to use the library for research on the week
end. Moreover, when the dorms are noisy, 
many other students prefer to study in the 
library. We hope the library could further 
accommodate students on Sundays by 
opening earlier and closing much later.
The Tartan thanks the staff of the Hunt 
library for its efforts this yast year, and 
looks forward to further cooperationin the 
future.
M.L.S.
PiDE Surveys Tech Publications
I by Everett Janssen,
President of Pi Delta Epsilon
Every few years the publica
tions on our campus must step 
back and see if they are fulfill
ing their intended purpose. In 
this series of articles and with 
your help, I would like to take 
a critical look at our existing
publications. I will tell you from 
the publications view point, what 
we feel we should be accomplish
ing, what we are doing, and our 
plans for the future. We already 
know some of our faults and par
tially realize why we are not as 
good as we should be. However, 
I would like to know what you,
This Week In Pittsburgh
An Exhibition of Photography, The Berthold Missal, Medieval 
Art and History, Hunt Library, First Floor.
The Rose Tatoo, Tennessee Williams, Carnegie Little Theater, 
January 11-January 22, curtain 8:20 p.m.
Film Arts, The Rules of the Game, Thursday, January 16, 4:30, 
7:00, and 9:30.
Syria Mosque, Pittsburgh Symphony, featuring Hafael Kubelik, 
conduction Berlio2s Symphonie Fanlasique, Opus 16; 8:30 p.m.
Friday, January 17 and 2:30' Sunday, January 19.
Syria Mosque, Peter, Paul and Mary, Saturday, January 18.
Continuing Events
Strand, Straight Jacket, Joan Crawford, Diane Baker.
*Playhouse, Sunday in New York, Hamlet St. Theater, curtain 
8:30.
Playhouse, IDo You Know the Milky Way?, Theater Upstairs, 
curtain 8:30.
Warner, It*s a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, Cinerama, 8:30.
Squirrel Hill, Billy Liar, Tom Courtney, 6:15, 8:30, 10:15, Sat
urday, 2:15, 4:10, 6:10, 8:10, 10:15.
Gateway, Charade, Cary .Grant, Audrey Hepburn.
Forum, Lilies of the Field, Sidney Poitier, 6:15, 8:10, 10:15, 
Friday, 6:30, 8:15, 10:08.
Fulton, The Cardinal, Otto Preminger.
=^penn, The Sword in the Stone, Walt Disney, 12:50, 3:05, 5:20, 
7:35, 9:50.
adyside, The Suitor, Pierre Etaix.
Nixon, The Prize, Paul Newman* 12:05, 2:30, 4:55, 7:20, 9:40. |
the students and faculty of Car
negie Tech, feel about this vari
ous publication. Through the 
Letters to the Editor* column 
of the Tartan, give us the good 
and bad points of the publication 
and some suggestions for its im
provement.
Some weeks ago I was at a 
national journalism conven
tion and was thoroughly surprised 
when our yearbook The Thistle 
was announced to be the best 
yearbook entered. The 1963 This
tle had just been released on 
campus before I left and the stu
dent reaction to it was one of dis
appointment. The judges said that 
it was a unique book with excep
tional layout and beautiful pho
tography. Perhaps it was too arty 
and did not really fulfill the pur
pose of a yearbook.
A yearbook must do at least 
two things other than just be 
pleasing to the eye for it to be a 
useful publication. First, it must 
tell the story or history of the 
important events during the past 
year on our campus, and second, 
it must serve as a reference book 
about the people on the caimpus. 
Apparently, you did not feel that 
these were accomplished in 1963.
This years Thistle staff has al
ready laid plans for the follow
ing changes: add a larger sports 
section, more of an interesting 
type of copy, a section of faculty 
and administrations pictures, and 
try to orient the book' more 
toward general campus activities. 
They will also try to retain some 
of the artistic qualities gained 
last year, for indeed ours is a 
unique campus.
Some of the projects toj the 
future in the Thistle idea box are: 
add some color to the book, a bet
ter senior picture setup, and 
cheaper books for more students.
Your experience working on 
your high school yearbook could 
be put to very good use by writ
ing the Thistle via campus mail 
or contacting this years editor, 
Tod Johnson at the Tau .Delta 
Phi house. With your; help;, we 
can make the 1964 Thistle a prize 
winning book in the eyes of judges
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
For The Defense
The last article that appeared in this space before 
Christmas vacation was not favorably received. The publie does not feel that it is proper to speak heretically on 
such sacred subjects in such an undignified manner, so it 
seems. This is not a matter of freedom of the press. The 
right to publish such trash was conceded by most, 
critics. The question is one of whether it was in "good 
taste to ridicule a subject about which many persons feel 
very strongly.
To answer this objection the other side must be looked 
into. If the dogmatic assertion of a religious conviction 
is felt to be mistaken by a person, then the fact that this 
dogma is very important in the lives of many persons is 
all the more reason to challenge it.
Perhaps such opinions will upset the lives of persons 
who feel strongly without achieving any positive effect. 
This might be true in a society in which believers Have 
nothing else except their faith in God, and no intellectual 
training that would enable them to live securely other
wise; but surely this defense can not be applied to college 
students. It is felt that a Carnegie Tech student should be 
capable of coping with the subject.
Why write the column during the Christmas season? 
F6r the shock value of cours. This writer naturally wants 
his opinions to have the widest audiences possible. What 
better season is there to write an article challenging re
ligious faith? Perhaps Easter.
If the subject is broached, why not go into it deeper 
instead of just touching the matrial? For one thing space 
and time limitations prohibited such a lengthy thesis to 
be even begun. However, the main reason is that the 
article did fairly represent the authors views on the sub
ject. That article represented the writers opinion on the 
subject  as does this one. The trouble_js (so this person 
thinks) that many people do not consider the subject of 
religion to be open to any debate except that between 
th different faiths  and this is not even thought to be 
in particularly good taste.
Such views on religion are not at all original; nor is 
the language in which the views were expressed. If any
one wishes to read more material in the same veinmuch 
better written material at thatit is suggested that he 
read some of Mark Twains newly published writings.
In any case the true believers should not be so up
set. All will turn out as they expect if they are right.
"'CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNECIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Editor in-Chief.............................................Miron Straf
Managing Editor ..........................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager.................................Michael McCoy
Layout Editor......................................Nancy Cameron
News Editor..................................................Frank Brady
Assistant News Editor ................................Alma Rock
Features Editor.........................................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor ............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ...............................John Norris
Sports Editor ....................................Scott McCormick
Secretary Editor................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor  ..............................Tom Johnson
Annual Subscription Rate S2.50 Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, fcorbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editcr-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology* 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editorial Board: Charles Hofook, Annie Moser, Margie Park, Peggy Riva.News Staff: Dale Chodorow, Bob Fritz, Callie Gilleland, MirJam Gillespie, Tom Giassberg, Bob Griscom, Karen Mlhm, Marti Moore. Marion Mulligan, Jim PanepJnto, Elhsa Parker, Peggy Riva, Penny Ross, Gretchcn Smith, Bob  Wohlford.
Features Staff: Jeffrey Axelrad, Tyler Burt, Irene Grandberg, Martha Hodgson, . Arlene Kadish, Marion Mulligcn, Carolyn Rysnar, Sue Wells, Stephen Yafa. Sports Staff: Jay Arnold, Ron Bidula, Dick Elder, Randy French. A1 Green, Chris Macosko.
Liyoul Staff: Diane Brown, Dick Elder, Drew Lippay, Beverely Phttofsky, Ted
Cepy Steff: Linda Booth, Barbara Brown, Diane Hayduk, Jane Keeler, Mary Lou Recco, Ginny Salko, Glnny. Uliss, Lorraine Vinograd, Helen Beatty. Verna Ream, Mike Greenawalt, Nancy Green.
Secretarial Staff: Hazel Bakarlan, Beth Carten, Janls Cummings Pat Hartman. Carol Kamell, Karen Kutner, Leslie McKinley, Mary Stoll. Lorraine Vino1 grad, Carol Young.
Ctrcolatlou Staff: George Kail. 3. E. Miller, Tom Chamberlin;Pkoto staff: Tom Clements, Jim-Pawley, Joe O'Connor, Johns Osias, Howard Schwartz. *

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Janur; 15, 1M4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  rut 5
Film Close Up
The Suitor
Shadyside Theatre, Walnut Street: showings at 7:15 
lend 10:00 p.m.
If (Ed. Note: In response to. numerous inquiries concernffjng Mr. Pierces somewhat peripatetic background in film, 
e should this week make brief mention of his past acting 
^triumphs. His first appearance on American screens was 
jm the role of Harry in The Trouble With Harry. Mr. Pierce, 
j winning critical acclaim for his portrayal of the corpse, 
'* was subsequently cast as the dead Jesse James in a movie 
?which opened with a quick close-up of Mr. Pierces left 
j boot as he lay fatally wounded by the dirty Mr. Howards 
bullet Many other cadaver roles followed, each requiring 
the versatile Mr. Pierce to sprawl horizontally oil a bar
-room floor and to momentarily stop breathing, which has 
become his forte. Despite the innumerable close-ups of his 
jlt foot, toe pointed toward the ceiling, that have em1 bellished many cinematic epics, he insists his best acting 
efforts have wound up on the cutting room floor. Mr. Pierce, 
'however, is optimistic. Someday soon, he says, Ill break 
'their type-casting and be allowed to play a living human 
j being  He may currently be s e e n as The Owl in Walt
 Disneys Sword and the Stone.
Pierre Etaix, whose glib short, Happy Anniversary last 
3 year won an academy award, stars in a feature-length 
comedy which he also produced, directed, and wrote, 
j Elaixs more ambitious effort,. The Suitor, now playing at 
 jie Shadyside, offers some of the years funniest screen 
^ moments. Etaix plays an anemic book-worm who suddenly 
s?| discovers the opposite six and sets out to learn the art of 
j seduction. He is a would-be Don Juan whose fumblings at 
..'.a lamour generate more than a few truly uproarious scenes.
i Etaix s comedy consists of sight-gags which are often abM surd or downright silly but never slap-stick. One jaux pas 
. triggers another, then another, in rapid succession, so that 
I a titter and a giggle build to genuine guffaws. The strength 
and weakness of Etaixs comic approach in The Suitor 
1 center upon its visual nature. His art is partially derivative 
one sees vestiges of Lloyd, Chaplin, and other masters 
) of sight-humor. But Etaixs imitation, though somewhat 
f lacking by comparison to its sources, often manages to 
i bring this comic genre up to date. During its best moments 
j The Suitor captures the essence of silent comedy and pre:ij sents it in contemporary terms  no small feat. After so 
j many dismal talkie, talkie comedies (see any Debbie 
! Reynolds vehicle) and maladroit efforts to revisit Keaton
* and his pals in cinamascope (Mad, Mad World), Etaixs 
a successful venture provides a very refreshing change.
a He runs into trouble with the last third of his film, 
i))owever, because his gags wear a bit thin, become preI dictable, and fail to completely sustain our interest. He 
| also spends much time building to a climax which fizzles.
* The Suitor is sometimes funny enough to justify its lack 
: of plot, but not always. When the humor falters, we find 
; little to hold our attention.
a The Shadyside offers a dubbed version of The Suitor. 
i Fortunately there is less dialogue during its two hours 
; than most films stuff into fifteen minutes of their running
1 length. But even so, the dubbing irritates and doesnt 
work: the characters of the mother and father might be 
_wice as funny were we able to hear them in their native 
French nasal. S.P.
So pressed for time that 
you havent kept in touch with home ?
With college activities making such_ heavy demands on you, telephoning is the quickestand most, satisfyingway to assure the_ family that you havent forgotten them. Call tonightA
National Student YMCA and YWCA 
Sponsor Soviet-U.S. Exchange
Moscow, Washington, India, Latin America and Mexico 
are among the places available in summer projects through 
the national student YMCA and YWCA this next summer, 
and plans need to be made now to participate since space is 
limited and preparation may take some months.
The annual USA-USSR Ex-*; 
change with 40 days in the So
viet Union is open to upperclass 
and graduate students, will also 
involve time in two other So
viet bloc countries for a total 
of 10 weeks abroad. Language 
preparation, a strong awareness 
of the international situation and 
of East-West relations, and 
knowledge of American history 
and fundamental principles of 
American life are vital to a mean
ingful exchange between U;S. and 
Soviet youth. Applications close 
in mid-January since preparation 
is lengthy.
AiTother travel and study pro
gram including a period in a 
work camp sponsored by the 
YWCA and World University Ser
vice (one of the groups in our 
Campus Chest) will take its par* 
ticipants to Asia concentrating on 
India, and is open to highly quali
fied faculty, Y staff, upperclass 
and graduate students. Substan
tial scholarships are available,
partly through use of U.S. coun
terpart funds.
A Latin American Seminar 
open to upperclass and graduate 
women students who are highly 
qualified for cultural exchange, 
preferably with a variety of 
skills in recreation, camping and 
child care will include study, 
work and travel in an ares ex
periencing revolutionary political, 
Cultural and social change. Com
petence in Portuguese and/or 
Spanish is required for participation.
Near Albuquerque will be a 
project open to women students 
who have had one year of col
lege at least, with opportunity to 
give volunteer service as'a resi
dence camp counselor in an in
terracial, intercultural and inter
faith setting. Knowledge of Span
ish is helpful for this project. 
There will also be opportunity 
to work in^'migrant projects in 
the south and southwest, open 
to men and women students. Stu
dents and faculty are also in
vited to participate in voter edu
cation and registration projects 
in the south, cooperating with lo
cal efforts for education for vot
ing and assisting and encouraging 
registration of prospective voters.
There are two projects in 
which earnings will adequately 
cover costs with some remaining. 
One is the College Summer Group 
in which the member works with 
the. inhabitants of city slums and 
their problems of overcrowding 
racial and nationality tensions, 
distrubed youth and broken fami
lies, . living with other members 
of the project at the historic Hen
ry Street Settlement on the low
er eastside of New York City. 
Skills in group, leadership, rec
reation and crafts are essential. 
The Washington Student Citizen
ship Seminar. gives a first hand 
experience of government through 
jobs with civil service or gov
ernment oriented agencies, while 
the group living together has op
portunity for seminars, study 
groups and key speakers from 
the Capitol area.
Check with the Campus YMCA 
and YWCA for further informa
tion about these projects.
Tom Huck sought scientific excitement
Hes finding it at Western Electric
Ohio University conferred a B.S.E.E. degree on 
C. T. Huck in 1956. Tom knew of Western Elec
trics history of manufacturing development. He 
realized, too, that our personnel development pro
gram was expanding to meet tomorrows demands.
After graduation, Tom immediately began to 
work on the development of electronic switching 
systems. Then, in 1958, Tom went to the Bell Tele
phone Laboratories on a temporary assignment to 
help in the advancement of our national military 
capabilities. At their Whippany, New Jersey, labs, 
Tom worked with the Western Electric develop
ment team on computer circuitry for the Nike Zeus 
guidance system. Tom then moved on to a new 
assignment at WEs Columbus, Ohio, Works. There, 
Tom is working on the development of testing cir
cuitry for the memory phase of electronic switch
ing systems.
This constant challenge of the totally new,\ 
combined with advanced training and education' 
opportunities, make a Western Electric career 
enjoyable, stimulating and fruitful. Thousands of 
young men will realize this in the next few years.1 
How about you? s'
If responsibility and the challenge of the future 
appeal to you, and you have the qualifications we 
seek, talk with us. Opportunities for fast-moving 
careers exist now for electrical, mechanical and 
industrial engineers, and also for physical science,1 
liberal arts and business majors. For more detailed 
information, get your copy of the Western Electric 
Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement 
Officer. Or write: Western Electric Company, Room ' 
6405, 222 Broadway, New York 38, N. Y. And be! 
sure to arrange for a personal interview when the 
Bel! System recruiting team visits your campus.)
MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTElWestern Electric
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
Principal manufacturing locations in 13 cities  Operating centers in many of these same cities plus 36 others throughout the U S. 
Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. ? Teletype Corp., Skokie, III., Little Roch, Ark.'  Gen. Hq., 195 Broadway, New Yorkm

---------------------------------------------------

Psrc S  CABNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, lim; 15, 1964
Scholarships Available 
For Study in Europe
The Institute of International Education announces that 
a. limited number of scholarships for 1964 summer study are 
being offered to qualified Americans by two Austrian and 
four British universities. Adoli-Morsbach awards for summer 
study at most German universities are also available. All 
programs are administered by the^-------------------------------------;-------------------
Institute of International Educa
tion.
The historic University of Vi
enna will hold a special summer 
session at its St. Wolfgang cam
pus in Stroble, Austria, from 
July 12 to August 22. Courses 
available to students will include 
law, political science and liberal 
arts courses, and German lan
guage courses. The St. Wolfgand 
program is open to candidates 
who have completed two or more 
years of college and will cost ap
proximately $335. An optional 
iour-day trip to Vienna at a small 
additional charge is also avail
able.
The aim of the Salzburg sum
mer school at Salzburg-Klessheim, sponsored by the AustroAmerican Society, is to provide 
students with an opportunity to 
learn the German language and 
td acquire a first-hand knowl
edge of Austrian culture and for
eign policy. Although most cours
es (in art. music, economics and 
politics) will be taught in Eng
lish, attendance at one of several 
German language courses will be 
mandatory. Total cost for the 
Saltzburg program will be $260, 
$245 to cover room, board and 
tuition, plus a $15 registration 
fee. Applicants for the six-week 
session (from July 5 to July 25) 
must be between the ages of 18
Cultural Center 
Is Discussed
(continued from page 1) 
University of Michigan, which 
investigates not only the physical 
aspects of the atomic era, but 
legal, commercial, sociological and 
idealogical aspects as well. In 
1960 he was given a Citation by 
the regents of the University for 
his contributions.
Mr. Smith is a director and 
member of the Executive Com
mittee of the Evans Projects 
Company, Detroit; a director of 
Mallinckrodt Chemical Works, St. 
Louis; and of International De
velopment Services, a non-profit 
private organization working with 
various governments, includ
ing the United States to improve 
the economies of underdeveloped 
countries.
All-Pen
cartridges fit 
all these pens
Guaranteed for
 Sheaffer
 Parker
 Esterbrook
 Wearever
 Venus
 Eversharp
4*
AlhPen
. GARTRfflSES,
For two-pen studentsfor those with pen-giving rela' tives. Be preparedstart using All-Pen ink cartridges inS,ur present cartridge pen! 
ont walk a mile for a cartridge. Come in and get All-Pen Cartridges.Washable Blue, Washable Black, Peacock Blue, Jet 
Black, Cardinal Red. Blue 
Black and Green.
Get All-Pen Cartridges 
6 tor 39c or 8 for 49
CIT 
took Store
and 40 and must have completed 
at least one year of college.
High-point of the . two Austrian 
summer sessions will be the op
portunity for students to attend 
the famed Salzburg Music Fes
tival, including . one opera', one 
concert and Hofmannsthals drama 
Everyman. Festival tickets are 
included in the schools fees.
Summer school opportunities 
in Great Britain include a choice 
of subjects and historical periods, 
with study to be carried out at 
the appropriate university con
cerned. The study of Shakespeare 
and Elizabethan drama will be 
offered at Stratford - upon - Avon 
by the University of .Birmingham; 
the history, literature, and arts 
of 17th century England will be 
taught at the University of Ox
ford; 20th century English litera
ture at the University of London; 
and British history, philosophy 
and literature from 1608 to 1832 
at the University of Edinburgh 
in Scotland.
The Universities of London and 
Oxford will hold their session 
from July 6 to August 14; the 
University of Birmingham, from 
July 5 to August 14; and the Uni
versity of Edinburgh, from June
29 to August 7. Fees, which in
clude room, board and tuition, for 
all schools except Edinburgh, will 
be $296; and for Edinburgh, $282. 
Courses for all f ooi r university 
summer sessions are designed for
graduate students, but under
graduates who have completed 
at least two years of university 
work may apply.
Eight Adolf-Morsbach awards, 
worth approximately $125 each, 
are being made available to quali
fied Americans by the German 
government for this summer study 
in German universities. They are 
opento candidates with a good 
knowledge of German who have 
not received other grants for a 
full academic years study in Ger
many.
Further information and appli
cations for all summer sessions 
and awards may be obtained from 
the Counseling Division, Insti
tute of International Education, 
800 Second Avenue, New York 17, 
N.Y. Completed scholarship appli
cations to the British schools must 
be received at the Institute by 
March 1, 1964; applications for 
admission by March 31. Austrian 
scholarship applications must be 
received by March 1; admission 
applications by May 1, 1964. Clos
ing date for completed German 
government awards is April, 1, 
1964. Travel arrangements to and 
from Europe are the responsi
bility of each student.
Catastropliies
Plague Tech
(continued from page 2) 
the citys emergency maintenance 
crew arrive to close off the water 
main, which, consequently,\ af
fected both the Sigma Nu house 
and the Beta Sigma Rho house.
Although quite disturbed by the 
lack of bathroom conveniences in 
their own buildings the men of 
both houses found it easy to pla
cate their anger by using bath
room facilities in two other areas 
the Pi Kappa Alpha house and 
Morewood Gardens!
!Hunt Library Opens Floor Of 
Rare Books and Fine Arts
(continued from page 1) 
besides the regular stacking of 
fine arts books, bound, periodi
cals, records, and paintings.
The formal opening, this Fri
day at 4:30 p.m., will be limited
Photo by Tom Davi
to invited guests of the library 
staff and administration. It will 
culminate a short-lived yet en
thusiastic anticipation by b o t 
faculty and students for the com
pletion of the new facilities.
WHLLYS
Campus-Favored 
MEN 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAOIC 
FLORSHEIM
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
The price is inspirational, too! BIC is the worlds finest writing instrumentcosts 
only 190. Only BI is guaranteed* to write first time every time. BICs 'Dyamite" Ball 
Point is the hardest metal made by man. Get a BIC, now at your campus store. 
BIC Crystal" 19f!. BIC pens available with blue, red, green, black ink. Made in 
U.S.A. *For replacement send pen to: WATERMAN-BIC PEN CORP., MILFORD. CONN.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January IS, 19*4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Fa*e J
NEGIST UGOTFHHO LSYFK ilteBa 
ndHpr nFSSdT PHd L.dO.W omYOHdg
By 7:45 last Saturday night, it 
had become practically impossible 
to find even the minimum amount 
of space on which to sit in the 
[ j Tech gym. Everybody had come 
to see the basketball mastery of 
the Duquesne Dukes and their ac
claimed Willie Somerset. Every
body had come to witness an up
set of those Wizzards. The few 
Duquesne fans and their cheer
leaders were insignificant in op
position to the hoards of Carnegie 
Tcch fans who were actively supsporting the Tartans' bid for vic
tory. The usual passive spectator 
had little place at this game.
The Tartans -anticipated a de
fensive tip with Ray Metz oppos
ing Jon Cigalis, two inches Metz 
better. The Dukes Ron Willard
some maneuvering, Ray Morrison 
hit his first jump-shot from the 
side. Nine exchanges later, the 
hustle Tech was supplying aggravaited,v Somreset into committing a 
technical foul, the shot from which 
proved to be typical of the Tartan 
ineffectiveness at the foul line.
Even at Seven Minutes
Neither team could capture a 
lead by controlling the ball and 
with seven minutes gone, it was 
12-12. But Duquesnes brand of 
rough basketball and threatening 
shooters was beginning to draw 
costly Tartan fouls. Metz left the 
game with eight and one-half 
minutes gone allowing an injured 
Jeff Kali not to see action.
Kalins entry wasnt enough to 
stop the tide of Duquesne scoring 
and only a side jump by Niedra 
interrupted the visitors domina'
took the tip and converted a longition which lead to a 21-14 Duoutside jump-shot, a lead which 
lasted only until Jules Borkowski 
^ould drive for two points from 
the left. Somerset missed the first 
of j'nany shots from the outside 
and with a Metz rebound and
SAE Victorious 
In Volleyball
a* Harvey Gammons hard spike 
imo the center of the Dorm-Trojan 
court climaxed a long uphill battle 
for SAE, giving them a 16-14 win 
in the third game, and the cham
pionship of the 3-man intramural 
volleyball league. A partisan 
crowd of SAE onlookers, standing 
at the finish, roared their approval 
as their favorites finally took the 
lead at 15-14, and held it until 
^Gammons deciding smash.
^ It would be impossible to even 
consider that the outcome was evi
dent from the start. The DormTrojans won the opener by the 
wide margin of 15-4 as John 
Regan ,Bill Oakes, and Ralph Kilmoyer turned in one sparkling 
play after another. For a while it 
appeared that Regan was going to 
stop everything that Gammon hit 
across the net.
^ As play moved into the second 
'game, the steady play of Bill Mc
Clure and Glen Mehltretter com
bined with the offensive punch 
f Gammon, began to asert itself 
and SAE evened the series with a 
15-8 victory. This set the stage for 
the third and deciding game, 
which was a thriller all th way.
One Game Apiece Into Third
Now it was Regm and Oakes 
turning in the spectacular defen
sive plays, and Kilmoyer doing the 
spiking as the Dorm-Trojans wid
ened their margin to 12-6. Then 
McClure and Mehltretter rose to 
the occasion with almost unbeliev
able defensive tactics, while at 
the same time setting Gammon up 
for his spikes, and SAE  finally 
evened the game at 14-all, setting 
the stage for the previously de
scribed finish. Six of the seven 
Players who saw action in the 
^championship contest had been 
'previously named to the years all
school volleyball team, and as the 
crowd filed out of the gym after 
the marathon struggle, it left with 
the feeling that their selection was 
more than justified.
The consolation game was in no 
related to championship con
test as Fred Kospfsky Joe Lees 
and Co. whipped the Dorms twice, 
ky 15-3 and 15-6 scores, giving 
jthird place to the Grad Eagles.
quesne advantage with ten mln 
utes gone.
Drives by Morrison, Foels, and 
Borkowski, long jump-shots by 
Niedra, Morrison, and Werronen, 
a tip by McGeary, and a few foul 
shots accounted for the remain
der of the Tech scoring in the 
first half. Although the Tartans 
managed to double their score at 
half-way, Duquesne managed to 
draw enough fouls and to convert 
enough shots under the basket to 
add one more point to their lead 
which carried them into the half 
ahead 42-34.
The tip in the second half turn
ed into a quick Duquesne play 
which would have been worth 
two points on Somersets drive but 
for Foels, who fouled Willie as he 
shot. In the first minute of the new 
half, the Dukes scored five points, 
allowing the Tartans only little 
more than the disappointment in 
the loss of Metz on his fifth foul.
Willards Shooting Harmful
Willard resumed his long jump 
shots from either the right or left 
when the Tartan defense would 
allow him a few seconds freedom. 
Morrison also was hitting from the 
same position, but the superior 
Duquesne height accounted for 
most of the rebounds and did not 
permit the second shot after the 
Tartans misses on  drives, which 
were all too frequent.
Tech lost its ' second starter 
twelve minutes into the second 
half as Andy Niedra committed his 
fifth trying to stop the easy shots 
Lautsch was taking under the 
basket. With him gone and the
score at 71-50, the Tartans were 
not yet ready to quit. The pitch of 
the Tartan offense remained high 
as they attempted to break their 
men loose, a task made difficult 
by a persistent Duquesne defense. 
With only one chance at the bask
et before returning to defense, 
Tech was never able to' mount a 
scoring threat substantial enough 
tc overcome the Dukes scoring.
As the game drew to a close, the 
play on both teams degenerated 
with the score. Both second teams 
played the remaining minutes, with 
only a four point play by Sam 
Cupps providing encouragement to 
the disappointed crowd. The Tar
tans left the floor with a 95-62 
defeat pushing their record to 4-5.
Tech Just Outclassed
Tech proved that their defense 
was strong enough to stop the 
Dukes Little Wonder, but it was 
not enough to stop everything, as 
Willard. Willie Ross, and Dennis 
Cuff took up the slack to push 
the score out of Tartan reach. Un
der the boards, the Tartans also 
were revealing spirit and desire, 
but the greater height was dump
ing Tech hopes with Ross, Cuff 
and Lautsch all rebounding in 
double figures, accounting for 
much of the 67-31 margin under
neath. It was not that Tech was 
out pla. ed because of their own 
mistakes, it was that Duquesne 
controlled the class, an unfortu
nate, but deciding factor.
Tonight, Tech will play host to 
the Waynesburg team which ear
lier felt the effects of Tartan play 
in a lop-sided Tech victory. The 
game is at 8:15 in the Carnegie. 
Tech Gym.
CARNEGIE TECH
fgatis(t at ftrcbpts
Morrison1C11325
Borkowski12
Foels4216
Niedraa04
Metz413
Kalin613
McGeary2
Newell1222
Werron302
Cupps32*
Burdette000
Keeter0 0 0 
DUQUESNE
00
Cun124131314
Ross121212-17
CigalisG9
Willaird2112829
SomersetJ76911
Lautsch6131312
Smith1001
Schiponi212
Malady220
Masterson1003
Somerset toe late to block Borowski's Shot
Tech Rifle Team Hitting Stride; 
Dukes Dumped But Not W. Va.
Carnegies rifle team finally began to hit its stride al
though placing second to West Virginia in a three-way 
match. WVU fired a 1422, poor by their standards; Tech 
shot a 1383 and Duquesne finished third with a 1343.
More important than the score1* 
for Tech however was the fact 
that seven shooters proved that 
they could come up with a good 
score at any time. The big sur
prise was freshman Jim Burdick 
who led all Tartan scorers with a 
fine 282. Phil Meyers followed 
closely with a 281. Rich Damberg,
Scott McCormick, and Bob Fritz 
rounded out Techs scoring with 
274, 273, and 273.
Joe Schlitt was right behind 
with a 272 while Dan Mersel had
W.V.U.s potential All-Amreican, 
Writer, shot a 290 while his teammates Bahrman led all scores with 
a 291. The Mountaineers are still 
undefeated and have to be ranked 
as one of the top teams in the 
country.
With Mike Kmpley and Ed 
Hotzgraver stated to join the team 
for the second semester, Carnegie 
should have both 280 plus shoot
ers and the depth to go with 
them.
This weeks loss to West Vir
ginia was only the third of the 
season and with most of the rough 
matches by the boards, things 
should start to go better for Coach 
Murphy.
Between Classes or at Study Break . . .
SCOTTY'S"
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE 
...and ...
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PEHN AVE.
Bowling Moving Snto Play-offs 
Begg Gets MVP with 178 Average
The regular season ended Saturday with defending champions 
BTP A defeating Sigma Nu, 3-1, in a cliff-hanger to win 1st place 
in the Strikes League, DTD won over the Grads 3-1, to take first in 
the Spares League and Trojans "A maintained 1st place in the Splits 
League despite dropping 3 out of 4 to 2nd place SAE.
Don Begg of the Marauders finished the day strong with a 220- 
213-157-590, to take high league average of 178 and MVP. It . was 
a close race going into the final week, but Begg managed to beat 
out Ken Care of Trojans "A and Keith Pierce of BTP "A,-both 
of whom finished at 173.
The quarter-finals of the play-offs start the first Saturday of 
the second semester. Besides the top two teams in each league, the 
two high averages, Sigma Nu and TDP A will be in the play-offs.
STANDINGS
Strikes Individual and Team High
V High Team Game, DTD lOOtBTP A" 17 ft 93 High Team Series, DTD 2738Marauders 15 5 "75 High Team Average, DTD S30Sigma Nu 15 S 775 High Ave.BeggMaranders MVP 178Trojans "D 7 IS 6f>2 High GamePondDTD 235
I*KT 4 16 647 lligh SeriesBeggMarauders 390ATO 2 18 649
Splits Top Ten Averages
Trojans A" 17 S 770 Begg  Marauders (MVP) . 178
BTP **B J3 7 CS7 Carey Trojans A _ 173
BSR 7 13 6S8 Pierce  BTP A  173
Whales A'  14 62 Snchan  DTD J7*
m B 1 19 658 Gammon - SAE 172
Spares pisciteiu  EL5 "a m
DTD is t 30 Defiilppl  Grad Eagles 169
TDP * 74g Boeckman  DTD J67
DU 9 l| G05 Benlley  DTD jcj
Whales "B1* 4 16 65 Beaaisoa * BTP A'

---------------------------------------------------

>S 8  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January 15, MH
Tartans Split 1 for 3
- Tech cannot look back on the week before Christmas 
vacation with; much enthusiasm as the Ttartans'could not 
muster the drive which shoiild have carried them past three 
opponents, adding three victories to their record. Instead, 
the Tartans could barely defeat a weak Thiel team, 69-66, on 
December 16 before losing to*
Washington and Jefferson, 50-41, 
on. December 18, and Qeneva on 
December 21,' 64-61.
In a discouragingly small gym 
at Thiel, the Tartans could not 
manage to unify tlieir offense and 
defense and hold onto the ball 
to crush Thiel. They were forced, 
instead to rush to a slim, three 
point victory gained in the last 
minutes of the game after.trail
ing 33-28 at the half. Ray Mor
rison lead Tech with 23 points 
with 7 for 11 from the floor and 
9 free throws, and Jeff Kalin 
cleared the boards 15 times while 
Jim Nemell hit 4 for 5 and 2 
at the line for 10 points. Merkowsky with 21 points, Hoer with 17, 
and  Pushar with 20 rebounds 
managed to keep Thiel ahead of 
Tech thru much of the game.
Cooper Too Much For Tech
At Washington, Pa., two nights 
later the Tartans had not reme
died their weakness and with a 
Washington and Jefferson team 
which was stronger than Thiel, 
they could not pull out a victory 
and were fdrced to return home 
defeated, 50-41. Although Unice 
who had been a nemesis last year 
was held to one point, Cooper 
proved able to carry W & J on 
his own ability as he scored 24. 
Jeff Kalins 11. and Ray Morri
sons 10 proved to be the only 
double-figured scores for the los
ing Tartans in the 50-41 game.
Geneva Defeats Tech, 64-61
Before only partially occupied 
stands at the Tech gym one day 
into Christmas vacation, the Tar
tans once again could not find 
an effective offense or defense 
which could overcome Geneva. 
Although .Geneva had ^graduated 
their stars, Crowd and Ironst they 
were able to combine all their 
efforts to win 64-61.
The Tartans went into the game 
determined to pass more, but as 
the game progressed they were
ATO Captures 
Water Polo 
Championship
For the second time this semes
ter a fraternity team managed to 
win an intramural championship. 
A strong team effort enabled Al
pha Tau Omega to overpower the 
Grad Eagles 5-3 to win the intra
mural water polo championship 
for the second straight year.
The Taus scored the opening 
goal in the first period of play 
and were never headed after that. 
The Grads tied the score at 2-2 
in the second period, but just 
before the end of the half ATO 
scored again to take a one-point 
lead.
The tired Grads were able to 
score only one goal on'goalie 
Jerry Unger in the second half as 
ATOs two platoon system began 
to. take its toll on the five-man 
Grad team.
Dick Root and Jim Lawler led 
the ATOs in scoring with two 
apiece while Bob Olson scored 
the other. Bill Von Twisten play
ed a fine game on defense.
The Taus reached the finals by 
wasting the Dorm Trojans and 
BSR in league play. The Grads 
also went undefeated in their 
league.
Write 
For The
Tartan
shooting before they had a good 
shot. Geneva used their superior 
height on defense to stop the Tar
tan attack and with the fouls 
they were drawing from Tech 
they were able to buiid a 21-19 
lead with ten minutes gone in 
the first hall. Ten minutes later 
that lead had increased 36-30.
With little in the way-of of
fensive rebounds, Tech could not 
build an effective attack even 
with the hooks and jump shots 
Kalin was hitting. Shortly be
fore the third quarter, Jules Bor
kowski received a chance for the 
first four-point play .of the season 
when he stole the ball at half 
court and drove for a successful 
layup. The intention foul he suf
fered granted him two foul shots 
lo complete the play, but . he 
could only convert one shot.
Ten minutes into the second 
quarter,'-Geneva was holding a 
53-47 lead which carried them 
into, a final 64-61 win over a 
helpless Tech team..
CARNEGIE TECH
CARNEGIE TECH
CARNEGIE TECH
/M Volleyball 
Selects Team
The 1963-1964 edition of Car
negie Techs instramural all-school 
volleyball team is dominated by 
members'of the champion DormTrojans. Bill Oakes and Gene King 
were named as spikers, and John 
Regan as a setter. Joining Oakes 
and King in the front-court are 
MVP Harvey Gammon of SAE 
and John Borofsky of TDP, while 
Joe Lees of the Grad-Eagles is 
Regans first-team counterpart.
The second-team lists Fred Kosofsky of the Grads, Jim Hagarman of ATO, Ralph Kilmoyer of 
the Dorm-Trojans, and Marty 
Skowron of TDP as spikers, and 
Bill McClure of SAE and Phil 
Cohen of TDP as setters.
In all, five different teams plac
ed representatives on this years 
mythical dream squad, including 
four by the champion DormTro
jans, three by TDP, and two each 
by the Grads and SAE.
:dH"S nmOg n.W umW UW&g UWYSa 
LSYF :.mWT wS"SW$S 10t19
Last Wednesday night the Tar
tans displayed a unity and desire 
which had been lacking in most 
of their games as they defeated 
Grove City on the Tech court, 74- 
70. The victory evened their re
cord, 4-4, and reversed an earlier 
loss to the Grovers at Grove City 
on December 12, 72-63.
In their., first encounter Tech 
could not unify their attack, but 
resorted to a free-for-all which 
had little similarity to a game five 
nights before at which they 
trounced Waynesburg, 79-38. At 
Waynesburg, the Tartans had 
worked their plays and used the 
Waynesburg errors to their own 
advantage. . However, at Grove 
City, this was not the case, even 
though the. Grovers committed 
many errors themselves, Tech wais 
forced to use Freshman Jeff Ka
lins 22' points and 17 rebounds to 
even keep in the game. Scoring 
was sparce and a Tech attack often 
non-existant as Sophomore Dave 
Marovich and Senior George 
Beller led th Grovers to a farcial 
72-63 victory.
Tartans Anxious For Revenge
it was different, though, as Tech 
returned from a 17 day gameless 
vacation to gain a deserved re
venge against the Grovers. The 
Grovers scored the first two bask
ets, but. both were nullified on 
steps violations and from then on 
the Tartans took up the initiative^ 
Whereas the sagging Grove City 
defense had thwarted the Tech 
offensive in the first game, Steve 
-Foels and Ray Morrison were 
pushing the plays through for lay
ups and jump shots.
With ten minutes gone in the 
first half, Tech was down, 19-16, 
but with their aggressive defense 
they were able to steal the ball, 
and, getting more offensive op
portunities which they converted, 
to take the lead at the half, 38-36, 
on nine field goals by Morrison, 
who was having trouble with lay
ups.
The second half was no less ex
citing as the Plaid returned to re
sume the battle on both offense 
and defense. The crowd became 
more spirited as Tech continued 
the see-saw struggle. The mem
ories of second-half let-downs 
came forward in spectators minds.
Tech Never Lets Up
That let-down was never to 
come, however. Tech caught fire 
with about one-fourth of the half 
gone and scoring came fast, often 
from steals by Morrison or Foels. 
But not all was optimistic as Tech 
lost the driving and long jump 
shots of Jules Borkowski and their 
center, Ray Metz, who had been 
having trouble on both offense' 
and defense, due to five fouls.
With ten minutes gone in the 
second half, the score was tied 
54-54.
A few minutes later, Jeff Kalin 
fell and reinjured his ankle, forc
ing him to leave the game with 
assistance. But reserves combined 
their efforts with those of Foels 
and Morrison to maintain the 
fires. Foels was particularly im
pressive as the 5 10 senior 
jumped to block shots from out
side or, as on one occasion, un
der the basket where 6 4*' Curt 
Carson of the Grovers felt Foels*. 
hand on top of the ball as he at
tempted ( layup. His five re
bounds and ten points contributed 
to the victory, while Ray Morri
son added six more field goals 
and two foulshots to climax a 
thirty-two point effort on his part.
Just after they lost Kalin, Tech 
pulled away from a 58-58 score 
never to experience another tie or 
Grover lead as Andy Niedra, 
George McGeary, and Sam Cupps 
picked up the slack to add their 
efforts to those of Morrison and 
Foels. On two fouls by Morrison 
in the final seconds, they iced 
away a 74-70 victory for Tech,
GROVE CITY
MarovichBeilerCarsonArrington
CARNEGIE TECH
Kalin 28 8 $Morrison 7 1 2Foels 6 12Borkowski 3 S 1
ft ' reb pis
NiedraNewellMcGeary
SECOND GAME 
CARNEGIE TECH
BorkowskiKalinMetzMcGearyCuppsNewellNiedraWerronen
GROVE CITY
J. V. Basketball Improves; 
TartansNowSport4-2Record
Techs Junior Varsity basketball team stands 4-2 in one of their.
strongest seasons in recent years. The Junior Tartans have com
pletely outclassed three of their opponents with their ball control 
and managed to defeat a bigger Point Park team before succumbing 
to stronger Grove City and Duquesne teams.
RECORD
Point Park
Duquesne
cgie Tccli JVCarnegie Tech JV;by(eri JV Tech JV
BOAC shows you the Europe the European students knowfrom $1079* for 42 days.
Inquiring minds and the fun-minded will both enjoy the 
11 BOAC itineraries specially designed for students. 
You visit little-known Alpine and Yugoslav villages as 
well as the Grand Tour classics. Here's what your tour 
price includes. .
 Serious cultural, economic and governmental briefings.
 Oxford and Cambridge graduate-student tour leaders. Shakespeare at Stratford, Salzburg marionettes, Edinburgh Military Tattoo.
 Evenings with European students at Tivoli, Munich Hofbrau, and the Left Bank.
 Independent leisure in the great cities. Most meals.
 All hotels, prices based on double occupancy of rooms.
 You get there by BOAC Rolls-Royce 707 Fan-JeL
 Travel in Europe by bus, train, steamer and air.
See your Travel Agent or nearest BOAC office-and send in the coupon.
Including Economy Class round-trip jet air fare from New York; subject to change.
ALL UVfcR (Ht WQRl
BOA
FREE 0UR BROCHURE
British Overseas Airways Corporation Dept. BE-17
530 Fifth Ave., New York 36 
Please send me your free brochure on 
STOP tours.
6NB RRRRRRRR
My Travel Agent tsi_
