Women's Tennis Team Wins PAC Championship - see page 19 
He's been scaring people for two decades...see Diversions
The Tartan
02
Volume 81, Issue 6Carnegie Mellon UniversityOctober 21, 1986
Carnegie Mellon and U. Pitt Create NMR Center
By OLVE PEERSEN
Tartan Managing Editor
Carnegie Mellon University and the 
University of Pittsburgh have jointly 
established the Pittsburgh NMR Center for 
Biomedical Research. The center, located 
on the first floor of Mellon Institute, will 
research the use of nuclear magnetic 
resonance (NMR) imaging as a tool for 
looking at living tissue.
According to Dr. Chien Ho, the Center's 
director, "NMR in biology is at its 
infancy," and much research into its 
usefulness and limitations must be done. 
The heart of the Center is a $1 million 
Bruker Biospec II NMR system with a 4.7- 
Tesla superconducting magnet having a 40 
cm horizontal bore. This magnet, the first 
of its kind in the world, will make it 
possible to study the living tissue of small 
to medium sized animals.
Nuclear magnetic resonance relies on the 
magnetic properties of the nuclei of certain 
atoms. Two important properties of the 
nucleus are that they spin around an axis 
inside the atom and that they have small 
magnetic moments associated with them. 
As a result, these nuclei are in effect like 
tiny randomly rotating bar magnets. When 
placed in a strong magnetic field, such as a
photo by Olve Peerson
Pitt Chancellor Posvar and President Cyert survey the worlds largest 
magnet at the Pittsburgh Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Center.
NMR magnet, all the nuclei respond by 
lining their spins up with the field, much 
the same way as a compass needle turns if 
you put a magnet close to it.
One then exposes the sample to a smaller 
magnetic field which is applied in a 
direction perpendicular to the big field and 
observe how the nuclei respond. This is 
done by applying a pulse of radio waves 
which causes the nucleic spins to change 
direction because they are absorbing this 
energy and trying to line up with the new 
field. However, the radio signal is very 
short, and once it is removed the nuclei 
once again return to being lined up with the 
NMR magnet's field. As they return to 
this state, the nuclei re-emit the energy 
they absorbed as radio waves, and the 
resulting radio signal is picked up an 
analyzed.
By looking at these signals, it is possible 
to deduce information about the nuclei and 
their environment. Because not all nuclei 
are identical, it is possible to excite them 
with radio frequencies that excite only a 
certain type of nucleus, for example 
flourine. Furthermore, the chemical 
environment of a nucleus determines small 
variations in the emitted radio waves, and
continued on page 4
Anti-Apartheid Rally Offers Insight, Entertainment
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor
Students Against Apartheid held their 
second annual apartheid rally Friday on the 
Fine Arts Lawn. The rally, which began at
2 p.m. and lasted well into the afternoon, 
featured two speakers and several musical 
presentations addressing South Africas 
apartheid system and the question of 
divestment. Although only 75 or so turned 
out amidst cloudy skies and signs 
proclaiming "Free South Africa", rally 
organizer Debra Martin was not 
discouraged. "Numbers aren't indicative of 
how many are concerned ... people are 
more educated about the issue than they 
were a year ago [when SAA held their last 
rally.]"
Drew Waegel, a junior philosophy major, 
spoke about the reasons people take 
political stances on issues, and how many 
don't perceive the need for this reasoning. 
Jake Milliones, President of the Pittsburgh 
Board of Education, offered some of the 
factual background of the apartheid system. 
Charles Kendall, who was to be the featured 
speaker, failed to appear for the rally. 
Martin attributed his absence to his current 
campaign for presidency of the Pittsburgh 
chapter of the NAACP.
Music was presented by local and student 
bands Project 5, Dial-a-tribe, the Zone 
Bops, and Secondary Modem. In addition, 
local activist Jeff Richardson performed rap 
and accapella songs dealing with the effects 
of apartheid on South African blacks and 
the need for its abolishment. Richardson, 
who is an organizer with the Jobs for 
Peace Campaign, claims he first got
involved in activism when he attended 
Carnegie Mellon's Upward Bound program 
inhigh school. After high school he 
attended Ohio State University and became 
actively involved with the black students 
union and newspaper. After graduation he 
worked for the Pittsburgh Courier and 
traveled to Nicaragua and Cuba. Richardson 
hopes to "link up with people around the 
world" to raise awareness of social and 
political concerns. When asked if he will 
visit South Africa, he replied that he would 
go "when its free." He also said war in 
South Africa is "not out of the question, 
since this government has shown it's 
interests and seems willing to protect 
them," meaning that the U.S. military 
would intervene in a revolution. Between 
songs Richardson spoke of CMU's 
investments in South Africa and 
involvement with the DoD, asking those at 
the rally "What does it mean to have 
weapons of destruction when just outside 
people are living on the streets?...soon, we 
will have to face the fact that we have 
responsibility." Soft-spoken away from the 
microphone, Richardson closed his set with 
a moving rendition of the Crosby, Stills 
and Nash song "Ohio", substituting his 
own lyrics "Apartheid has got to go."
Between songs people played hacky-sack, 
read pamphlets from a table SAA set up, 
and discussed CMU's holdings in South 
African corporations. Several students 
circulated a petition to free political 
prisoners, eradicate the segregated black 
townships, and lift the state of emergency 
imposed by the Pretoria government. 
However, many people ai the rally merely
stood by, looking as if they would leave at 
any minute. Rob Pfeifer said he "heard lots 
of people on the Cut saying Are you going 
to the rally? and answering 'No, why 
should I?' " He feels that many CMU 
students don't think anything more needs to 
be done, now that Congress has imposed 
partial sanctions, and don't think they can 
do anything to make a difference. Martin 
agrees with him, calling the campus 
"apolitical, from the administration down 
to the student body. People here are afraid 
to even take leaflets." She believes this to 
be a result of the University not 
encouraging education and debate over 
political issues.
When asked why they came to the rally, 
people responded with answers ranging 
from "I just saw the band..,I didnt even 
know what was going on," to "My friend 
dragged me here. One graduate student who 
came for the rally, expressed surprise over 
the politics of the students here, claiming 
they aren't as "conservative as the school's 
image is." He found that CMU students 
aren't really conservative, but naive 
politically, in that they aren't "faced with 
radical issues every day." Nonetheless, 
Martin feels that conciousness about 
apartheid has been raised on campus: SAA 
officially has 20 members now, and 75
continued on page 3
Bangles Concert Update
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Staffwriter 
Starting at 9:00 am Wednesday, October 
22, tickets for the October 29 Bangles 
concert will be distributed from the Skibo 
Information Desk. However, only 2,400 
reserved seat tickets will be offered to 
Carnegie Mellon students for the Syria 
Mosque event. Because of the limited 
amount available, upperclassmen will be 
able to get their tickets on both Wednesday 
and Thursday; any left over will be 
available to freshmen on Friday, October 
25. Only one ticket will be given to each 
person with a valid ID and that person may 
only their one ID. In other words, if you 
want to sit with your friends, pick your 
tickets up as a group.
The concert will be aired on MTV 
November 26 at 10 p.m.
The decision to exclude the freshmen was 
reached after considerable deliberation at last 
Wednesday's Students Against Multiple 
Sclerosis (SAMS) meeting. This 
organization, chaired by Marcus Muster, is 
responsible for organizing CMU's fight 
against MS; last year they raised more 
money than any other campus in the 
country. This year's campaign has already 
started, but they want to get more people 
involvedespecially freshmen. That's why 
the decision to bump the freshmen was 
debated. Muster wants freshmen to go to 
the concert, share in the rewards, and join 
the movement, but priority had to be given 
to the actual participants.
SAMS meets every Wednesday at 8:00 
pm in Skibo 12; all those interested are 
invited to attend.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanOctober 21, 1986
Star Wars...the Saga Continues...
President Reagan is continuing his post
summit offensive on behalf of "Star Wars," 
his futuristic defense system. He said Friday 
that giving up the plan would be like the 
British giving up radar during the second 
world war. He made the comment at the 
campaign stop in North Dakota.
Blacks Ousted from Town
The South African government says it has 
abolished a black township because it would 
cost too much to clean up. But black leaders 
say the ten-thousand residents are being 
forced out so whites who occupy a 
neighboring town can build on the land. 
Black officials vow to fight the move  and 
say there might be violence if residents feel 
its necessary to keep their homes.
Olympic Host Cities 
Announced
Sports fans who want to plan ahead for 
future Olympic games take note. The 
International Olympic Committee says 
Barcelona, Spain will host the 1992 summer 
games  while Albertville, France, will 
host the '92 winter games. The *88 summer 
games are set for Seoul, South Korea and the 
'88 winter games will be in Calgary, Alberta
 in Canada.
... we knew there had to be 
something good about nuclear 
weapons...
Sccrctary of State Schultz warns that a non
nuclear world could be expensive for 
American taxpayers. Schultz told a national
press club luncheon today that the US would 
face a sharp increase in defense spending if 
nuclear weapons no longer were the 
backbone of the American arsenal.
As the Ozone Layer 
Shrinks...
One expert is alarmed by the earth's 
shrinking ozone layer. Sherwood Rowland, a 
University of California researcher, says the 
protective covering is most depleted over the 
heavily populated northern hemisphere. He 
says pollution is probably to blame.
At least he'll have a famous 
lawyer...
Former Attorney General Griffin Bell has 
agreed to defend Eugene Hasenfus, who's 
going on trial in Nicaragua. Bell told an 
Atlanta radio station (WGST) he agreed to 
represent Hasenfus because he's entitled to 
have someone of public prominence as his 
lawyer. Hasenfus was captured after the 
transport plane he was on was shot down 
over Nicaragua. Hell be tried by a people's 
tribunal that, according to a human rights 
group, has a 99.8 percent conviction rate.
Have your dealer call my dealer
Forget "Garbage Pail Kids" and designer 
jeans  beepers are the latest craze sweeping 
some schools. In Miami, one Dade County 
school board member wants the electronic 
devices banned. And a school official in 
Detroit believes beepers may be linked to the 
illegal drug trade.
True Confessions, part 1: 
the Von Bulow transcripts
(NEW YORK, NEW YORK)  Danishborn socialite Claus Von Bulow has lost his 
bid to bar the news media from obtaining 
daily transcripts of his testimony in the 
multi million-dollar lawsuit filed against 
him by his stepchildren.
Michael Armstrong, the lawyer for the 
stepchildren, says Von Bulow asserted in 
federal court in New York Wednesday that he 
might be embarrassed or humiliated by some 
of the answers he would be forced to make 
under oath.
Judge John Walker said if Von Bulow 
objected to the release of particular sections, 
he would review the specific points to 
determine whether they should be omitted 
from the public transcript.
Von Bulow's deposition would be the first 
time that he would be questioned under oath 
about the circumstances surrounding the 
comas in 1979 and 1980 of his wife, Martha 
"Sunny" Von Bulow.
He did not testify at his trials.
Von Bulow was acquitted last year of twice 
trying to murder his wife, the heiress to a 
utilities fortune in Pittsburgh.
Mrs. Von Bulow is not expected to emerge 
from the second coma.
Von Bulow's stepchildren, Annie-Laurie 
"Ala" Kneissl and Alexander Von Auersperg, 
are suing Von Bulow individually and on 
behalf of their mother.
They seek at least 56 million dollars in 
damages, including all the money and 
property Von Bulow has received from his 
wife since her first coma. The two also want 
to bar Von Bulow from inheriting part of his 
wife's fortune, which is now estimated at 
more than 100 million dollars.
part 2: Woody Allen's
secret deductions
The Internal Revenue Service has gone 
after Woody Allen  trying to get the
comic actor and film director to pay more 
than 300-thousand dollars in back taxes and 
penalties. The IRS says Allen took 
deductions on some investments that were 
"shams." Allen's tax lawyer denies the 
charges and has asked the US tax court to 
throw out the case.Do the IBM Shuffle
As part of a shuffle of top management at 
the world's largest computer company, IBM 
named a new chief financial officer. Frank 
Metz, an IBM senior vice president, will 
succeed Allen Krowe as chief financial 
officer and head of the corporate finance and 
planning staffs. Krowe was named corporate 
executive responsible for worldwide 
development and US manufacturing for the 
information systems and communications 
group.
Congress settles on funding for government
Congress has cleared up a fiscal mess that 
it created. The lawmakers have approved and 
sent to President Reagan a record 576 billiondollar spending bill to keep much of the 
government funded for the next year. The 
passage comes after the White House ordered 
non-essential government activities shut 
down for the day. It sent home 500-thousand 
government workers because spending 
authority had technically run out and the 
administration decided to apply the heat to 
Congress.
Just say "Fire!
Another issue lawmakers are doing lastminute work on is the war against illegal 
drugs. Friday the House passed a drug bill 
that gives lawmakers a chance to back the 
death penalty for drug-related crimes. The 
bill now goes on to the Senate  which can 
drop the death-penalty clause from its 
version.
MTriMTm aaaa ByOLVEP yjjus OR
iFanMimA'TOMS.......
We're making the 1987 Thistle Yearbook the best ever, and we need your 
help. Please fill out the following form and send it via campus mail to 
Skibo Room 46A, so we can arrange to give your club photographic 
coverage. Hopefully, with your cooperation, we'll see all of you in the 
87 Thistle. 
Thanks, 
(Ay; L'yUs^
Lisa Clister (Activities Editor)
CLUB NAME:_____________________________________________
NAME OF PERSON TO CONTACT:______________________
PHONE:,_________________________________________________
OFFICE:__________________________________________1-------------
OFFICE PHONE:_________________________________________
MEETING TIME:______________________________________
BEST TIME FOR GROUP PHOTO (before Thanksgiving):. 
UPCOMING EVENTS (place and time):__________________
V/illJCj *V<:| u I .e.\Jj\ivv./J *',* ;r. '.viov*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 3The TartanOctober 21,1986
Scranton Scrutinizes, Subsequently Scoffs Scurrilous Slander
(SCRANTON)  Republican 
gubernatorial candidate William Scranton 
called on Democrat Bob Casey Friday to 
stop using what Scranton described as some 
of the most scurrilous literature he's seen in
any campaign.
Scranton was criticizing Casey's latest TV 
ads and also some literature being distributed 
by Casey backers that focuses on Scranton's
past.Casey had said that his campaign doesn't 
approve of it, and that he deplores the
practice.Some of the fliers show side-by-side 
caricatures of Scranton as a hippie and in a 
business suit. They carry a caption that says, 
"He ran away, while millions served their
country."Scranton, a liberal during his college years, 
said he received a medical deferment because 
of asthma and allergies and did not serve in 
the Vietnam War.
Another flier shows a montage of headlines 
about the 39 year old candidates admitted 
drug use in the late 1960's and early 1970s. 
Printed in the lower right-hand comer is 
"Paid for by AFSCME."
Edward Keller, The executive director of the 
AFSCME Council 13, has said his union is 
responsible for at least some of the material.
AFSCME Council 13 has 72 thousand 
members statewide. The union has endorsed 
Casey in the November 4th election.
Penn State Alumni Help 
Fight for Divestment
(STATE COLLEGE) - A group of black 
alumni from Penn State say theyll visit 
high schools in the state to discourage 
blacks from enrolling. The move is a result 
of the group's objection to Penn State 
investments in racially-torn South Africa. 
The University's trustees have repeatedly 
rejected divestment. The group's members 
say they've also begun talking to state 
lawmakers about blocking state 
appropriations to the University.
Peace Links Dinner
Sister Joan Chittister, OSB, PhD, 
internationally acclaimed lecturer, teacher and 
writer, will speak at Pennsylvania Peace 
Links annual dinner meeting. On Tuesday, 
November 11th at 6:00 p.m., at the Rodef 
Shalom Temple in Oakland, Chittister's 
subject will be "Peace, New Moment, New 
Call."
Prioress of the Benedictine Sisters of Erie, 
Pennsylvania, Chittister has participated in 
peacemaking programs throughout the 
world. These include a dialogue among 
Christian, Jewish and Moslem women 
leaders in the Middle East in 1983, and 
lecture presentations at Caterbury Cathedral 
and Oxford University in England in 1985, 
where she received standing ovations. 
Chittister served as delegate to the Synod of 
Bishops in Rome in 1977, and to the 
Religious Conference on Salt II at the White 
House in 1979.
This event is open to the public at a cost 
of $15. For more information and 
reservations, call the Peace Links office  
471-0302.Crime and Incident Report
10/4 Burglery - Mudge Fencing equipment 
stolen. Items included 
swords, shoes, blades, gloves.
10/4 Assault Comer of Fifth and 
Morewood. Three white male threw rocks, 
debris, and shouted religious obscenities to female.
10/5 4:52 AM Car drove across the Cut, 
onto Forbes Avenue, throught the
fraternities. It proceeded onto Morewood Avenue,
where it almost collided with a Pittsburgh 
police patrol car. The police unit pursued 
the car to Bayard Road where it was finally 
stopped and the driver apprehended.
10/5 Burglery - 601 Clyde Street. A stereo, 
two speakers, wallet,
checkbook, blank checks, and $100 cash were stolen.
10/6 Bicycle stolen from rear of Theta Xi.
10/7 12:20 AM Several students
apprehended while attempting to steal 
lumber from Warner Hall construction site.
10/7 One of the SAE fraternity lions stolen; 
it was returned several hours later.
10/8 3:23 AM Prowler - A Black male was 
seen hiding in the shrubbery under a window 
in the rear of Hampshire Hall.
10/8 2:12 PM A crane that was lifting 
cooling towers to the top of 
Mellon Institute gave away, dropping 
the cooling top on the roof. Any structural 
damage to the building is unknown.
10/13 Between 12 and 2 PM A car was 
broken into in the Doherty
Student Senate in Review
by KEVIN POECKING
Tartan Staffwriter
At the Student Senate meeting last 
week, October 14, Senators discussed 
how they should stand against apartheid 
in South Africa. The issue was to decide 
what signs would be allowed at the 
Students Against Apartheid rally this past 
Friday. After almost thirty minutes of 
debate it was decided to allow signs to be 
posted reading "Student Senate Supports 
Partial Divestment," and "Student Senate 
Opposes Apartheid." The debate 
consisted on whether or not to include the 
latter as this was never voted on by the 
students. The proposal never stated that 
Senate would make the signs; it only 
provided that these signs could be made. 
The Senate currently has a committee 
which is investigating divestment from 
South Africa.
Other major business was passed at the 
Senate meeting two weeks ago on the
issue of the $64,000 surplus the Senate 
will have next Spring. Remembering the 
decision to keep part of the money in a 
full liquidity system and to invest the 
rest, Senators voted to spend twenty 
percent on the students and invest eighty 
percent After the heated debate President 
Jim Denberg announced his veto to the 
Senate, but formally retracted his veto at 
the next meeting after looking at the issue 
more closely.
Fred Rogers will be coming to the 
November 4 meeting of the Student 
Senate. Anyone interested in the open 
forum discussion is welcome to attend. 
Student Senate meetings are held on 
Tuesdays from 7:00 to 9:00 in the 
Wherrett Room.
Hayes gets Chair of 
College Board
Ann L. Hayes, Professor of English at 
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, has been reappointed chairman 
of the Literature Achievement Test 
Committee of the College Board for the 
1986-87 academic year. This committee is 
responsible for developing examinations that 
the Board offers through its Admissions 
Testing Program. The committee's charge 
includes specifying the kinds of knowledge 
and skills to be measured, writing and 
reviewing test questions, helping to 
communicate information about the
examinations to those using or affected by 
them, and advising on related policies and 
services.
Apartheid Rally 
Offers Insight, etc.
continued from page 1 
signed up at the Activities Fair, so she 
"knows that people are interested." She also 
claimed the weather and publicity had adverse 
effects on the rally, since many of the 
posters advertising it were tom down or 
defaced. Martin cites this as another example 
of how "people are encouraged to be cynical 
of views that aren't mainstream."
While the rally was viewed overall as 
successful in making people aware of the 
problem, SAA intends to "keep the 
awareness going." Future plans include 
another rally in the spring and continued 
efforts to get the Board of Trustees to divest 
Students interested in SAA are welcome to 
attend their meetings, held every other 
Tuesday at 5:30. The next meeting will be 
this afternoon. Check the schedule board by 
the Skibo Information Desk for its location.
apartments parking lot The right rear 
window was broken, stereo system stolen, 
and the dashboard badly damaged.
10/14 4:43 PM A white male was reported 
to be soliciting magazines in Doherty 
apartments. Security escorted him off 
campus
and gave him a warning.
10/14 12:30 PM Several items valued at 
$630 were stolen from car in Tudor 
apartments parking lot.
10/14 Hot water line at ceiling level broke, 
flooding Doherty B-tower apartment.
10/14 12:31 AM Skibo loading area - A 
Black male grabbed a female walking 
towards Margaret Morrison and asked for her 
money. The female pulled away, and the 
male ran.
10/15 12:28 PM E&S Library - A 
suspicious White male asked a female for a 
pen. He sat down, rummaged through some 
magazines, and moved away. A short time 
later, the female student found $90-$ 100 
cash in the magazine. She approached the 
male to ask if the money was his, at which 
point she found that his pants were open, 
and buttocks exposed. The male said the 
money was his
and took it back. The female left the library, 
and he followed. He then returned the pen to 
her, and apologized for his actions.
10/16 1:41 AM Prowler seen at rear of 
Doherty apartments - no 
description given.
10/16 12:34 AM Two suspicious Black 
males seen in McGill lounge.
Shortly after, two brass lamps were found on 
the floor of the lounge, and a coffee table 
was found in the hallway.
Minutes of the Student Senate, October 14,1986
Meeting called to order 7.-05pm.
PresenUAyre, Cohen, Flynn, Frank, Giles, Goldstein, 
Greenberg, Ha usman, Kaplan, Kombrek, Larson, Lewis, 
Levy, Lonsky, Maxwell, McDonnell, Mukherjee, 
Robitshek, Rocher, Salley, Scanlon, Stochura, Storesinic, 
West.Ex-officio members: Dean Walter, Denburg, Chu. 
Absent:Fnedland, Merchak, Patnaik (excused), Shipley 
(excused)Ex-officio members: DeLeon.
Audience Participation: None.
Dewt Walter: This Thursday will be the first extenen of 
freshman camp. "Freshman Pit Stop will consist of a panel 
of upperclassmen giving talks of the secrets of survival at 
CMU.
Dean Cox: No report.
Prsidcnt:Jim Denburg Attended Faculty Senate 
meeting. Told them of the lack of reading days, no 
assignments after MTV concert and getting the faculty 
involved in campus events. Will meet this week with Dr. 
Crecine concerning reading days. Please come to Scotland 
Yard at 6pm before die Senate meeting far dinner. Decided 
not to veto the ratio of spend to save of the surplus. Trying 
to set up a dinner for December graduates.
SDC:Leanne Chu AB - SDC is sponsoring a luncheon on 
cut during homecoming Why are all the fire alarms in 
Morewood connected to each other? Fire code.
WC: No report.
ChairmanrPeter Cohen Fall elections are the 18th and 
19th of Nov. exact time is to be determined. Fred Rogers 
will address Senate on Nov. 4 on Skibo renovation. 
Conference Center, and S.E.l as we.l as answer questions. 
Need input for the PSAC meeting. Senators Cohen and Giles 
are setting up a Senate talk show on WRCT where different 
guests will be invited.
Treasurer:Fred DeLeon No report.
Academic Affairs: Handling complaints about teaching 
through TedFentons teaching center. Handling *Q CSW complaints 
through contacting people in CSW. Looking into reading 
days with President Denburg and faculty advisor 
policy. All academic complaints should be addressed to 
Academic Affairs. There is still the problem of students not 
being able to see own transcript without paying for it. 
Senator Flynn: Some people still haven't gotten their 
accounts for the Computer Skills Wkap. Pres. Denburg: 
Maybe we should have Bill Arms talk to Senate about 
Andrew. Senator Kaplan: What happens to PCs when 
Andrew takes over? Audience: They will be distributed to 
faculty and staff.
Campus Affairs: Senator Greenberg is working on 
campus phones and replacing the news Bboard in Skibo 
Grey Matter.
Working with Faculty Senate to create a buddy system - 10 
freshmen to 1 upperclassman Senators Stachura and West: 
Tech art studios are in very bad condition.
Funding & Recognition: An emergency
allocation of $650 was given to the Computer club to buy 
supplies before price hike. An emergency allocation of 
$535 was given to the Weightlifting and Bodybuilding club 
to start up a competition. A special allocation of $219 was 
given to WRCT to attend CMJ convention in NYC. An 
emergency allocation of $219 was given to GALA to set up a dance.
Public Relations: Happy hour will be Friday Oct 24 
from 5~6:30pm in Scotland Yard. Need by Friday a list of 
accomplishments from committee heads.
Senator West: We find the Tartan, why do we have to pay 
price of ad? Senator Mukherjee: Organizations only pay 1/2 
the price of ad. So every organization doresnt go crazy 
putting in many ads.
President Denburg: Might want to consider Nov 17 for 
elections because of BOC - more people in Skibo. Chairman 
Cohen: The Tartan comes out the 18th with the candidates 
picture and statement
Old Business: Temporary Constitution committee:
updating, simplifying, clarifying.
New Business: Senator Greenberg: I move that Student 
Senate allow signs to be printed stating "Student Senate 
supports partial divestment" and "Student Senate oppoaes 
Apartheid" Motion passes.
Senator West: Elections should be held in the different 
colleges. Senators Giles and Greenberg brought up an 
amendment It is tabled for a week. Senator Greenberg: 
Resolution: We, the Student Senate, recognize and 
appreciate the efforts of the retail Stores Committee in making
contraceptives available to the student body through the 
student stores. We, however, express great disappointment 
in the decision not to refurnish the dwindling supplies. With 
the possible security
problems of obtaining contraceptives off campus, and with 
the essential need that these products fulfill, we strongly 
urge you to instead refurnish, increase available supplies, 
and make contraceptives publically visible within the 
student stores. Resolution Ms.
Announcements: FR12 noon on Sat 
AA Wed at 3:30pm. PR Thurs at 7pm.
CA Man at 10pm. SAA rally 2pm Fri. on the cut 
Meeting Adjourned 9:00pm.
Tri-Corp International has announced the 
establishment of the AVANT Achievement 
Awards for jr. and sr. accounting students. 
These awards are being made available to 
encourage and promote the success of students 
studying to enter the field of accounting.
The AVANT Achievement Awards consist of 
five AVANT Systems and five cash 
scholarships awarded each semester. Jr. and 
sr. accounting students will be 
invited to author the correct and incorrect
answer explanations to four randomly choser 
multiple choice questions from previous CPA 
exams. Those students whose questions are 
selected will not only receive the AVANT 
Achievement Award, but they will appear as 
contributing student editors in the next 
edition of the AVANT CPA Review System.
For further information, contact Joy 
Richterkessing, AVANT Achievement Awards, 
P.O. Box 22509, Kansas City, Mo., 64113, 
1-800-255-0551.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 21, 1986
CMU Child Care Center Provides Quality Experience
By JEAN COOKSEY
Tartan StaffwriterThe Carnegie Mellon Child Care Center, located in the basement of Morewood Gardens, is often overlooked by many students as a part of the University's educational system. In the child care field, though, it stands out as a model of quality child care service that effectively integrates structured learning and self-expression with the important elements of home life.The center began in Semptember of 1971, as a result of the campus poll to adequately gauge the need for child care in the University community. Because the need was so great, the University offered a grant and space for the project. Originally composed of 3 children and 1-1/2 employees, the center now handles 100 children, ranging in age from 2-1/2 years old up through kindergarten, under the direction of 20 full-time employees and 12 work-study students. Marsha Poster, Director of the center and Co-Director of the Infant/Toddler Center of Squirrel Hill, attributes its success to the enthusiasm and personal interest of everyone involved.The center has always operated on full-day basis for pre-schoolers. In 1980, though, the center extended its program to accomodate the growing need for care for children between six weeks and three years of age. This change involved establishing, with Natalie Kaplan of the Chatham Day Care Center, the Infant/Toddler Center of Squirrel Hill, located in the Wightman School.While the center has gained local recognition, it is still dedicated to serving University affiliates first. "We are primarily here for the University. The Benefits Office on campus is very supportive of this operation, and has included child care as part of their flexible benefits package," says Marsha Poster. The Benefits Office also allows for a 25 percent reduction in monthly
fees for full-time employees who need preschool child care services. "All CMU affiliates have first priority at our space," she continues.Poster stresses the difference between The Children's School, located in Margaret Morrison Hall, and The Carnegie Mellon Child Care Center. "The Children's School operates a part-time pre-school program. Families that are looking solely for a nursery school or nursery school/kindergarten experience can go either there or here. Those looking for nursery school/kindergarten with the extended day would come here."The center's program for all three age groups (2 to 3 year old, preschool, and kindergarten) provides a balance of recreation andeducation. Poster states that "those of us who are educators of pre-schooler children believe there needs to be an equal balance between both; time for free and creative expression and time for a more structured,planned activity that helps with reading and writing skills, and prepares children for the world of school." In order to inform parents, the center prepares a detailed monthly bulletin of classroom activities, learning concepts with examples and applications, recommended library books that tie in with current themes, and song lyrics for home use.This pamphlet serves three purposes: "[parents] can see how we build upon skill level development,...and tie-in the planned activities with the home." In this way, parents are not only informed about the structure of the program, but can discuss the child's activities before and after school. This enriches the bond between child and parent, makes the child a better communicator, and increases parental awareness of the program's objectives "Everyone is a part of what the child is doing."
SORRENTOS PIZZA
Atwood St. Across From Post Office
WE DELIVER FREE
#621-9129
Thin Crust Pizza 
Thick Crust Pizza 
Calzones - Hoagies  
Pizza Bagels 
Dinners
Special:
Large Pizza 
$4.50
Expresso and 
Cappucino Coffee
In this fashion, the Carnegie Mellon Child Care Center overcomes many of the doubts regarding public child care service. Parents can be assured of the quality educational care and personal guidance the children receive. More importantly, though, the center, instead of replacing home life and alienating children from home, integrates the two through extended public awareness. The center's program complements a child's home life by developing common ground where a child and his/her parent can communicate and grow.The center is further improving its standards and reputation by applying for acceptance to a list composed by The National Academy for the Education of Young Children. It's an intense examination of the quality of one's program, involving parental, staff, and director evaluations. "We
are hoping that more and more facilities will go through the process, so that when parents are shopping for services, there will be, just like the AMA and The Bar Association, a seal of approval of quality facilities that have gone through this rigorous examination of programming," says Poster, who will be a local representative of and validator of this national process for other community facilities.Poster owes the center's outstanding reputation to "this dedicated and wonderful staff that believed in the fact that there is a way to offer pre-school and kindergarten programs on a daily basis-a way to do it right." As a result of these efforts, of which she has been a part for 14 years, the center is now "the model facility for quality a preschool kindergarten program on a full day basis" in the area.
NMR CenterWhat it does, etc.continued from page 1
as a result it is Dossible to differentiate between nuclei of the same kind.The main advantages of NMR is that it is non-invasive and allows for continuous monitoring of living subjects. By noninvasive, the subject being studied are not being exposed to any lethal agents, such as X-rays, but are only placed inside the magnetic field during the experiment. Secondly, NMR images can be taken continuously, while the subject is alive, over a certain time frame and any changes easily observed. This is a great advantage over biopsies where samples of tissue must be removed for analysis. Furthermore, NMR differs from X-rays in that it looks at soft tissues rather than bones.According to president Cyert, the Center is in a unique position here in Pittsburgh. First, it will perform NMR imaging and spectroscopy in living model animals. Second, there is access to several other high field NMR instruments within the Mellon Insitute. Third, there is the active participation of CMLPs computing facilities
and expertise in the related fields of biochemsitry, chemistry, cell biology, molecular biology, physics, and medicine. Last, the participation of the world renowned organ transplant team from Pitt will make research into organ rejection and early symptoms thereof possible.NMR imaging is currently being done on humans at the NMR Institute, located on the comer of 5th Ave. and Craft St. in Oakland. This is a clinical facility operated by area hospitals as a diagnostic tool. The NMR Center for Biomedical Research differs from this in that it is a purely research oriented facility. It also has a much stronger magnet, 4.7 Tesla vs. 1.5 Tesla, and as a result gives much better resolution.The total cost of the Center is about $2.1 million. Most of the funding came from the Richard King Mellon Foundation, with additional contributions from the Ben Franklin Partnership Program. Carnegie Mellon and Pitt have committed $100,000 for operational expenses during the first year, and the Center is applying for federal NIH sponsored grants.
Benjamin O lender Foundation for the Furtherance of Jewish Education
- Think "Jewish": This course will give 
participants an intensive basis in the 
fundamentals of Jewish Philosophy. 
Topics will include: Does Judaism leave 
room for personal creativity? Does G-d 
actually concern himself with what's 
happening to us? What is the mystique 
of the Jewish soul?
PRESIDENTJack H. LENDER
DIRECTORRABBIMEIR GOLDWASSER
ASSOCIATERABBI ELI ROTHMAN
BOARD OF ADVISORSSTANLEY GREENFIELD, Esq. Professor of Law, Duquesne Univarsity
DR. HERSHEL MARKOVITZ Professor of Mach antes and Polymer Sciences. Carnegie Mellon University
DR. JEROME ROSENBERG Dear, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, University of Pttaburgh
This class will be held:
Tuesday evenings from 7:30-8:30 at Carnegie 
Mellon University, Skibo Hall. Inquire at the 
information desk for room.
Thursday evenings from 6:30-7:30 at B'nai B'rith 
Hillel in the Dr Eli Goldstein Lounge, Rm. 308.
These classes are free of charge.
Everyone interested should please contact our office at 521^3718.
The Bengamm Otender Foundation works on campus in cooperation with B'nai
 run ntw

---------------------------------------------------

Page 5The TartanOctober 21, 1986
CMU Employees Express Concern over On-Campus Car Thefts
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Staffwriter
Over the last year CMU's parking lots have 
been plagued with car vandalism and theft. 
This topic dominated the monthly meeting 
of the Staff Council on Thursday, October 
16. CMU employees listened to Oscar H. 
Mayer of Auxilary Services explain steps the 
Administration has decided to take to deter 
crime in parking lots. Attending the 
meeting were two dozen employees, 
including some whose cars have been stolen 
in the last six months.
At the last meeting, Pam Sellitti, an 
administrative assistant at Mellon Institute's 
Rail Systems Center presented a petition to 
all employees, requesting for better security 
measures in campus parking lots. Sellitti's 
own car was stolen from the Morewood 
parking lot, just one of thirty incidents of 
automobile vandalism or theft in 1986.
Staff Council Chairperson Curt P. Yeske, a 
technical administrator at the Computation 
Center, "decided to get a more informed 
opinion of the situation. He invited Mayer 
and Acting Director of Security, Lieutenant 
Mary E. Suber, to the meeting to explain 
the depth of the problem and what measures 
were being taken to curtail future incidents.
Mayer explained that the Administration 
had held a series of planning meetings since 
the rash of car thefts. Though these crimes 
were committed in no particular pattern, onethird of them took place in the Morewood 
lot and several occurred in the Skibo lot. 
Car theft seems to be on the rise in the 
Pittsburgh area in general, but no specific 
data was available at the meeting. Mayer 
believes that the problem is "lifting all 
boats."
Those at the planning meetings decided to 
"focus on the concept of deterence,"
according to Mayer. They came up with a 
couple of ideas, two of which are being 
inplemented. First, more people will be 
visible in the lots more of the time. Also, 
the University will be increasing lighting 
the parking areas.
At the beginning of the academic year, 
CMU employed only one person specifically 
to monitor parking lots. Surveillance of the 
lots remains the jurisdiction of the parking 
office. Disregarding the cost, the University 
decided to hire an additional employee who 
has been on the job for two weeks. One 
employee monitors lots between 8 a.m. and
4 p.m. while the new monitor is on duty 
from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.
Columbus Day saw the first vandalism in a 
CMU parking lot since faculty and students 
returned for the fall semester. Mayer 
speculated that most incidents occur when 
high school students are out of school: 
holidays, weekends, and during the day in the 
summer. He believes that theft is caused by 
professional "chop-shop" theives.
Mayer had little to report about lighting 
the lots, except to say that he is aware of the 
problem. The Bureau of Mines lot and the 
Doherty lot are particularly effected. The 
problem will only get worse as Daylight 
Savings Time approaches.
Mayer also listed two topics which the 
University has decided not to use to prevent
theft fences and stake-outs. He cited 
expense and aesthetics for not putting up a 
fence around, or in back of the Morewood 
lot. Though stake-outs were tried for a week 
after the height of the vandalism crisis this 
summer, he believes this too would not be 
effective.
A Staff Council representative speculated 
that the fence might interfere with the 
proposed Morewood lot hotel. Another 
representative chided the University for being 
shortsighted about needing a fence, saying, 
"If you let people into the lot in the first 
place, you've given them half of the job."
Representatives suggested several other 
methods for making the lots more secure. 
These included student work-study patrols, 
especially during the summer; card readers to 
both enter and exit lots; and metal gates.
Patsey White, a secretary at Mellon 
Institute's chemistry department expressed 
disappointment with Security. Her car was 
stolen last May from the Morewood lot and 
according to her, Security told her to take a 
bus home and call the police. With no 
money and in the rain, she demanded that 
Security take her home. Later, the car she 
bought to replace the stolen won was 
vandalized. Now she rides the bus to work.
Lieutenant Suber explained that Security's 
policy was evidently not followed in White's 
case. Security is supposed to bring the 
victim to Baker Hall and call Pittsburgh 
City Police to speed the processing of the 
report The Staff Council asked that 
Security print its theft policy, so employees 
will be aware of what they should expect 
after reporting a crime.
Both White and Sellitti expressed doubts 
about the measures taken to improve lot 
security,and hope the issue won't be dropped 
before major improvements are made.
Alumni Share Work Experiences
By MEG EISSLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Do you wish that you had more 
information about the "real world" of 
work? Would you like help with 
exploring majors, investigating career 
goals, or initiating professional contacts? 
If so, you will want to attend the Career 
Connections program on Wednesday, 
October 29 from 2-5 in the Skibo 
Ballroom. Camegie-Mellon alumni from 
various majors, representing a diversity of 
fields, will be available to talk informally 
about their career experiences.
Developed by Karen Litzinger, the 
Associate Director of Career Development 
in the Career Services and Placement (CS 
& P) Office, the Career Connections 
program is designed to let the alumni 
answer students' questions on a walk
through basis, either individually or in
small groups. The program offers 
students, from freshmen to seniors, a 
chance to explore careers in a lowpressure, informal setting. The alumni 
will not be recruiting for their respective 
employers; this program is not intended 
as a "job fair".
The alumni represent nearly all of the 
majors in each of the five colleges; 
among them are lawyers, engineers, 
designers, and managers. Lists of the 
alumni who are participating in the 
program are available in the CS & P 
Office. Lists will also be distributed at 
Career Connections. Various staff 
members from CS & P will also be 
available at Career Connection^ to answer 
questions about their many programs for 
career development, preparation, and 
placement.
Would you like help with. . .
 exploring majors?
 investigating career goals?
 initiating professional contacts?
In a walk-through setting, Carnegie Mellon 
alumni will informally share their perspectives on
 their jobs and industries
 their career decisions
 their Carnegie Mellon education
Camene
MH ton
Who  All majors, all class levels 
When  Wednesday, October 29 
2:00 - 5:00 PM 
Where  Skibo Ballroom
Sponsored by Career Services and Placement/19 Warner Hall, x2064
Study 
Techniques 
Seminar
A peer study counselor will present:
Making the Most of Your Study Time
Saturday, November 1, 1986 
11:00am - Noon
Room: BH231A
--Sponsored by Counseling and Development Center, 
a division of Student Affairs.

---------------------------------------------------

land
AL
y.
8211
?y
r

?I,
* *
* *
i, 
.r
  /;
PARADE 6p.m.
PEP RALLY & ENTERTAINMENT
FIREWORKS
SPECTACULAR
Immediately following
Choice parade viewing: Fifth Avenue between Bellefield and Bigelow 
Best fireworks viewing sites: Cathedral of Learning Lawn and Flagstaff Hill
Published in cooperation with the Department of News and Publications. University of Pittsburgh. PR6399-1086

---------------------------------------------------

FINALLY A 
FREE FLIGHT PLAN
JUST FOR STUDENTS.
YOU WON'T GET A
BREAK UKE THIS
ONCE YOU'RE OUT IN 
THE REAL WORLD.
INTRODUCING COLLEGIATE FLIGHTBANK# FROM Or the grand prize, for the number one student referral
CONTINENTAL AND NEW YORK AIR. champion in the nation: a Porsche and one year of unlimited
If you re a full-time student at an accredited college or unicoach air travel, 
versity you can join our Collegiate FlightBank? Youll receive j311 ^et referral champion. Just sign
a membership card and number that will allow you to get UP 38 mai?V f P0* 311(1 ke sure your member10% off Continental and New York Airs already low fares. In P number 15 n theirapplication. In order to be eligible for 
addition, youll get a one-time certificate good for $25 off any P112? ^our referrals must slgn up before 12/31/86
domestic roundtrip flight. Plus, youll be able to earn trips to ^ each referral mi^t fly 3 segments on Continental a* New 
places like Florida, Denver, Los Angeles, even London and York Air before 6/15/87. Andyou 11 not only get credit for the 
the South Pacific. Because every time you fly youll earn mileenrollment, you U also get 5C0 bonus miles, 
aof* t-mx/arrk a frpp frin Anri if \;m i sion 1 in now vm ill also the Coupon, and Send it in nOW. Be SUte to includeage towards a free trip. And if you sign up now youll also cut nie coupon, ana sena it in now. oe sure to inc uae
mrpivp ^ firpp issi ESP nf Ri lsinp^XX/^pk O^rpprs marazinp. your current full time student ID number. "Ph^t way it 11 only
cost you $10 for one year ($15 after 12/31/86) and $40 for four 
years ($60 after 12/31/86). Your membership kit, including 
referral forms, will arrive in 3 to 4 weeks. If you have a credit 
card, you can call us at 1-800-255-4321 and enroll even faster. 
Now more than ever it pays to stay in school.
rlllil' I SIGN ME UP NOW! (Please print or type) ? I Year ($10) O 2 Years ($20) ? 3 Years ($30) D 4 Years ($40)
Must he submitted K 12/31/86.Name__________________________________________________Date of Birth------------------------------
College______________________________Address------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Zip-------------
Permanent Address_____:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------Zip_
Full time student ID #_________________________________Year of Graduation------------
$_______ ? Check/Money Older Enclosed PLEASE DON T SEND CASH? American Express ? Visa ? MasterCard ? Diners Club
Account Number ____________________________________Expiration Date---------------
Signature X---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FOR MEMBERSHIP APPLICANTS UNDER THE AGE OF 18: The undersigned is the parent/ guaidian of the membership applicant named hereon, and I consent to his/her participation in the Collegiate FlightBank program.
Signature X-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Send this coupon to: Collegiate FlightBank RO. Box 297847 Houston, TX 77297
This Porsche 924 can be yours if you are the national 
referral champion.
SIGN UP YOUR FRIENDS AND EARN A PORSCHE.
But whats more, for the 10 students on every campus who 
enroll the most active student flyers from their college there 
are some great rewards: 1 free trip wherever Continental or 
New York Air flies in the mainland U.S., Mexico or Canada. -1
CONTINENTAL CarnegiMlodM
Some blackout periods apply for discount travel and reward redemption. Complete terms and conditions of program will accompany membership kit Certain restrictions apply. Current full time student status required for each year d membership To 
earn any prize a minimum of 12 referrals is required. All referral award winners will be announced by 8/1/87.10% discount applies to mainland U.S. travel only. Students must be between the ages at 16 and 25. Rxsche 924 registration, license fees, and 
taxes are the responsibility of the recipient.  1986 Continental Air Lines, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Iceland Aftermath: 
Business as Usual in Geneva
For the first time, leaders of the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. are talking about arms reduction. Not just arms control, but actual reduction. And they are talking in a serious manner which suggests that they regard arms reduction as a realizable goal.
But the words being used in the press to describe events in Reykjavik are "collapse," "break-down," and "impasse." These strongly negative words refer to the pronounced disparity of the Soviet and American positions on the Strategic Defense Initiative. Careful examination of the press accounts of the Iceland meeting, however, will reveal that the grim picture being painted in the media is largely based upon that great fallacious scare-tactic: the false dilemma.
A New York Times editorial of October 15' argues: "What appears to have happended in Iceland is this: Mr. Reagan had the chance to eliminate Soviet and U.S. medium-range nuclear weapons in Europe, to work toward a test ban on his terms, to halve nuclear arsenals in five years and to agree on huge reductions later. He said no." Was it really that cut and dried? Hardly. First off, Reagan attempted a compromise, offering not to breach the 1972 ABM treaty (the product of SALT I) for up to seven years, but it is Gorbachev who insisted unbendingly on ten. Secondly, as long as S.D.I. is still an existing program and as long as Gorbachev is afraid of it, then Reagan has an effective bargaining chip. Reagan will have ample opportunities to offer to cut back on Star Wars research in return for arms agreements with the Soviets.
Giving up S.D.I. in return for arms reduction agreements with the Soviets is a complex proposition with drawbacks as well as 
advantages. Disadvantages of meeting Gorbachev's request by giving up research outside of the laboratory for ten years are that once this is done, Star Wars can no longer be effectively used as a bargaining chip, and still we have no guarantee of a treaty actually being written. But if Reagan is using this program as a bargaining chip, it is one which he should place carefully, because once the 
program is dismantled, reinstating it seems to be virtually out of the question. The many scientists working on the project will not sit idly watching to see if the program is put together again, instead they will disperse all over the country to their respective projects. In addition, the expensive, and largely unpopular program would 
have to be sold once again to the Congress, the media and the American public - certainly not an easy task. So if the US agrees to give up Star Wars prior to the actual drafting of a treaty, if the agreement is not satisfactory, we cannot simply return to the status quo. Once the program dies there is no reviving it. Treaties take notoriously long periods of time to draw up. Giving up Star Wars prior to the writing seems at least vaguely foolhardy.
But maintaining the program also has obvious disadvantages. It is expensive and highly, highly destabilizing. Since being brought under the umbrella of the Strategic Defense Initiative in 1982, related programs in laser and particle research may have enjoyed as much as a twofold increase in funding. If the S.D.I. program were dismantled, some of the research would persist, but certainly not at the current rate and intensity, so the cost would probably be cut down considerably. But the real danger of Star Wars is the wrench that it would throw into the doctrine of Mutual Assured Destruction (MAD). Implementing the Star Wars defense system 
before nuclear missiles are actually gotten rid of would give us increased first-strike capabilities.
Fortunately, however, America's choices are not limited to weighing the relative advantages and disadvantages of Star Wars and making am immediate commitment one way or the other. Reagan still has two years in office to negotiate about Star Wars and the door will be open for future presidents to bargain away the program for a high price if Reagan fails to do so. Furthermore, the tone of both Reagan's (predictably) and Gorbachev's speeches to their respective nations following the Iceland meeting were optimistic, not indicating the sense of doom that the press would 
have us believe should be associated with the pre-summit. And most importantly, negotiations between the superpowers have not come to a grinding halt. Instead it's business as usual for the negotiating teams in Geneva. Aims talks will continue at full speed between the two countries; so "impasse" is hardly an accurate description of what is transpiring.
This optimistic view of the current situation is based on one basic 
premise which must be explained: that is the assumption that Reagan is indeed using S.D.I. as a bargaining chip, a proverbial 
carrot to dangle in front of the Soviets. If Reagan is not pursuing Star Wars as a bargaining chip, but hopes to actually deploy the 
defensive system, and deploy it ahead of the Soviet Union, resulting in destabilization and a new facet to an already ridiculous 
arms race, then he is not only flirting with disaster, but committing 
a serious atrocity against the planet as we know it. Star Wars must 
either be bargained away in pursuit of arms reduction, or the 
technology must be shared with the Soviets so that we can both deploy the system, hopefully in place of a large number of our 
offensive weapons. It must be one or the other. Either no one has 
it, or we both have it. Otherwise the doctrine of Mutual Assured Destruction, which lends stability to an inherently volatile 
situation, is worthless, and we can all proudly proclaim our 
allegiance to the country which picked the world up off of the scale of mutual deterrence and tied it to the time bomb of an endless arms race and lit the fuse.
Letters:
Constructive Criticism for Campus Pub
Editor:
It seems to me that Scotland Yard 
isn't working. I realize that the 
Yard is on a tight budget, and with 
this in mind I offer the following 
suggestions for improvement: 
Cover the windows translucently. 
The incoming light is important, 
but the view of the parking lot 
must be concealed.
Decide and work toward a theme 
for the Yard. The Yard could (but 
does not currently) provide an 
attractive in-between-class stop
over, study retreat, or just meeting 
place for friends. Given that the 
resources to produce a full menu 
restaurant can't be mustered, some 
theme other than that should be 
developed. Currently I dont know 
whether the Yard is there to 
provide study space, meals, snacks, 
high-quality food, convenient food, 
fast food, meeting space, night 
entertainment, day-time TV, or any 
of a dozen other possible inter
pretations. The furnishings are 
attractive and interesting, but not 
especially conducive to hanging 
out
Decide upon a theme for the food 
an drink offerings. This theme 
should reflect the theme of the 
Yard overall. At the same time, 
increase the quality of food. 
Currently there is sparse a hodge
podge of Mexican entrees, snack 
food and desserts. I understand (via 
rumor) that the only heater 
available is a microwave. That can 
be okay, if the thing is not pushed 
beyong its limits. The Mexican 
entrees have to disappear. If a decpboiler isn't available, don't try to
simulate one. If alcohol isn't 
available, don't make fake 
alcoholic drinks. Put the resources 
rather into improving the other 
menu items. The Yard doesn't have 
to provide full-meal service; 
Dining Services can shoulder that 
burden. At the same time, Dining 
Services can/do not provide highquality food, and I think the Yard 
should fill this on-campus 
vacuum. (E.g., is there any excuse 
for providing yellow, sweet 
mustard out of plastic squeezers 
with hot dogs? How much would 
it cost to leave a bottle of real 
mustard at each table? I would 
ramble on about utensils and 
flatware, but space is short.) As for 
a theme, I suggest "cafe." This 
begins with offering a variety of 
good coffees (cf. the "mocha 
offered now as the only alternative 
to regular coffee), teas and desserts. 
Buying from a local bakery 
regularly shouldn't be out of the 
question: there are several just over 
in Squirrel Hill which would 
probably appreciate the business. 
Snack offerings could come next, 
but the fruit/cheese/cracker tray 
leaves something to be desired. If 
it is tough to keep fresh fruits 
around, then move on to 
something else. If full-blown 
entrees stretch the Yard's resources, 
then don't bother. "Do a few things 
well rather than many poorly. 
Establish some standards for the 
servers. They don't reflect the most 
basic training in waiting. Am I 
supposed to be tipping them? If 
so, I expect better service than that 
provided now. A couple
of hours' instruction would help 
immeasurably. In addition, any 
kind of uniform would help. This 
needn't be extensive; just a 
common shirt or color pattern or
continued on page 9
Student Responds 
to Katz ColumnEditor:
I write this letter in response to 
Jay Katzs column in the October 7 
issue of the Tartan.
I do not think that there is any 
inherent value in the educational 
systems in the United States. I say 
that any such value must be 
created, both by the administrators 
of the systems and equally by the 
participants. I accuse those who 
see little value in their education at 
CMU of expecting the University 
to be responsible for the value they 
receive from their education, 
instead of being responsible for it 
themselves.
I accuse those students who 
complain without taking action of 
being irresponsible for their own 
education. I say that they have no 
right to expect anything from 
CMU if they do not take 
responsibility for their own 
education.
I am committed to students being 
passionate about their education 
and their lives, as well as being 
responsible for them. I invite 
others who share that commitment 
to respond to me via campus mail 
care of the Mathematics Dept, in 
Wean Hall.
Vincent Matsko

---------------------------------------------------

Poller Protests Pat Robertson's Pursuit of the Presidency
By JACK L. POLLER
Tartan Contributing Editor 
What comes after Pat Robertson for 
president? Pat Robertson for God? Yes, if 
the United States is not careful. It is still 
two long years away from the presidential
Column
Mr. Robertson, if he had his way, would 
return this country to the days when men 
were men, and women were slaves. Pat says 
that God told him that the women's duty is 
raise children and be obedient to her husband. 
How can this country elect a man who 
would do away with all the liberation gains 
made in the past one hundred years?
How can the country take seriously a man 
who claims to have the God-given power to 
change the weather? Mr. Robertson believes 
in many archaic thoughts, including divine 
right, which he says he has. Mr. Robertson
believes that the teaching of Evolution leads 
to the moral decay of the nation. The 
Reverend's worst sin, however, is that he 
openly admits that he will ignore any 
Supreme Court ruling that he does not agree 
with. Will this country elect a man who 
wants to do away with our democracy? If 
elected, Mr. Robertson will rule this country 
as a religous dictator, forcing upon the 
people of the United States such things as:
* Prayer in public schools
* The abolition of the teaching of
evolutionism
?Teaching creationism 
*The abolition of women's suffrage 
?Government supported religous 
activities
*The abolition of freedom of religion 
and many other evils-all in contradiction of 
the Constitution. This country cannot sleep; 
for if the Reverend is elected, we will see 
the abolishment of the Constitution.
As he himself would say, a vote for Pat is 
a vote for God!!!!
elections, yet the Reverend Robertson is 
already testing the waters. And, 
unfortunately, his prospects appear quite 
hopeful. Will the U. S. sleep, and elect the
Reverend, or will it wake up? Tart n a M n n g t A
Katz Says: Appreciate What You've Got
Robertson be President!How can this
country elect a man to presidency, when the 
man is openly violating the Constitution? 
Mr. Robertson is running with support from 
those who are tired of the "Godless society" 
and want to return the nation to "God's 
favor." This is itself against the 
Constitution, which deems that there shall 
be a separation of Church and State. This 
separation will be fundamentally violated if 
the Reverend has his way. Mr. Robertson 
wants to rule from the pulpit, basing laws 
and policies on the bible.
By JAY KATZ
It does not seem as if people enjoy where 
they are or what they are doing. We seem to 
look to better times in the future constantly. 
Not many enjoy the moment very much.
Column
For example, I hear many people who are 
enthusiastic about their religion. But at 
every religious service that I have been to, I
Senate Chairman Gives Election Reminder
By PETER COHEN
Today, petitions go out for Student Senate's 
fall elections. This is your chance to run for 
seats that are open in all colleges. Senate is 
quickly becoming a strong force on campus
Column
and now is the time to get involved. Senate 
is beginning to become more involved with 
campus and national political issues. 
Senators regularly discuss campus and 
national issues, and vote on them. If you 
feel strongly about issues on campus, or 
even national ones, get involved! 
Furthermore, Senators continually meet with 
administrators from all levels at CMU to 
discuss ways of improving campus life.
In addition, Senators serve on one or more 
of the four standing internal committees. 
The committees are: Campus Affairs, chaired 
by Leslie Frank; Academic Affairs, chaired 
by Eric Rocher; Funding and Recognition, 
co-chaired by Uday Patnaik and Tamal 
Mukherjee; and Public Relations and
Human Resources, chaired by Nadine Flynn. 
These committees process and solve student 
complaints, oversee the allocation of the 
$300,000 activities fee, and publicize and 
promote Senate events.
Undergraduate as well as graduate students 
can run for seats and vote in the elections. 
The elections will be on Tuesday and 
Wednesday, November 18th and 19th. 
Petitions can be picked up at Skibo 
Information Desk, and they are due in by 
November 4th. Each petition requires at least
25 signatures from activities-fee paying 
students in your college. No person may 
sign more than one petition. Once the 
petitions are validated by A Phi O, you then 
are asked to submit to the Tartan a oneparagraph statement saying why you are 
running. The Tartan will also take your 
picture for the election day edition.
A lot of people complain on campus about 
having no voice in CMU's decision making 
process. Well, this is your chance to get a 
voice. If you don't want to run for a seat, at 
least vote. If you have any questions about 
Senate or the election process, attend a 
Senate meeting or contact me at X2115.
Letters Cont.
Scrutinizing Scotland Yard
continued from page 8 
even name badge.
Buy a liquor license. This could have much 
wider ranging impact than simply the well
being of the Yard. CMU has yet to develop a 
cohesive student body, due in part to the 
absence of a common, default meeting place. 
Fraternities are effectively closed to a large 
portion of the student body, leaving a 
vacuum for the majority of CMU students. 
With no on-campus focusing point for social
functions, students fragment among a 
number of off-campus alternatives. The 
administration will be of no help rectifying 
the problem, which leaves it in the hands of 
students. I look forward to the time when I 
can walk into the Yard any night of the 
week, grab a beer, run into a friendly face or 
two, and just relax for a couple of hours. I 
think others must share the same hope.Hans Tallis
have seen a significant number of the 
congregation monitoring their watches. 
Don't religious followers try to enjoy the 
services that they have paid for as much as 
they can?
This same scenario holds true for classes. I 
am guilty, as much as anyone else, of 
wishing that I was somewhere else doing 
something much more exciting than 
listening to an 80 minute lecture. People 
may look to the future no matter whether 
they are at a sporting event, concert, funeral 
or wedding instead of dealing with what they 
are already doing.
Living life in the fast lane is a must in our 
modem society. Few take time to perfect 
what they are working on, do their jobs 
precisely. Quantity, not quality, is more 
important.
Being here at Carnegie Mellon, we have to 
look way ahead to prepare for our projects, 
papers and exams. No wonder we think to 
the future instead of enjoying life here. I 
think that may explain why students here 
don't enjoy the momentour minds are way 
ahead. Our priorities end up in a single 
dimension.
This gives us a bad, negative impression of 
the world around us. Everything that is 
happening now is said to be bad; but there is 
only hope in the future for correction. We 
amplify bad news, discuss crises, and talk
about how to save the world. But never does 
anyone take notice of what is going right at 
the present time, how nice it is that the 
most important things essential for survival 
are okay. For example, few take notice of 
the new medical developments that occur; 
instead, people demand to know why there is 
no cure for cancer yet. People act as if we 
have reached the all-time low.
Simple things in life are passed over. I 
recognize that I am lucky to have all my 
bones in place, have a healthy heart and 
liver, and have some degree of mental health. 
I notice these things now, even before 
something happens instead of saying later, 
"If only I could....". Has anyone recently 
looked at how nice it is outside, smelled the 
flowers, noticed how nice it is not having a 
nuclear winter, or petted some friendly 
domestic animal?
I think that many people here, as a result 
of looking to the future so much, are going 
to watch their lives just fly bytheyll get a 
job, get married, buy a house, retire and die. 
As their lives get progressively worse, their 
complaints will increase and they will talk 
about how good it was in the past, back in 
their collegiate days.
Everything isn't going wrong right nowit 
could be worse in that future that you are 
waiting for now.
The Tartan
Olve Peersen
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-ChiefAndrew RobitshekManaging EditorBusiness ManagerDrue MillerJoshua M. LevineBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
John FriedmannRuth MatsumuraAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawAlbrecht T. PowellCeleste Clark
Art EditorProduction ManagerAd Manager
John BabichKathryn A. SitterDave Levy
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerTartan AssistantVijay ReddyJack L. Poller Neil Greenblum
Contributing EditorContributing EditorContributing Editor
The Tartan is the official student newspaper 
of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper, published each Tuesday during the fall 
and spring semesters by students at no cost to 
members of the university community. It is printed 
by Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year. The 
Editorial appearing at the beginning fo the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board. Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan editorial board or staff. Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the University community. 
A letter intended for publication must be
signed and include the writer's address and 
phone number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter or column. 
Copyright 1986 by The Tartan. The editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. 
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan 
Box 17
Carnegie Melton Univ. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
IP
SiliYour opinions count in the Tartan.
..Deadline for submissions to the Editorial Page: Thursday, 5PM.Letters to the Editor;H-v..y,'< ' -, -
fi1 i  l i Ji

---------------------------------------------------

FRI DAY
24  OCt  86 9PM  1AM
WHERETT ROOM 
SKIBO HALL
G. A. L. A. 
AFFAIRCMU Gay And Lesbian Alliance
Carnegie
Mellon
funded by student activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

F eatures
Make the Break, Be a Curator
Launderama
By JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Staffwriter
Interested in a career in museums or 
historic preservation? Want to learn more 
about American history and culture? Or 
does the possiblity of winning a 
prestigious summer fellowship appeal to 
you? I thought it mightso read on.
Historic Deerfield, Inc. will award six 
to ten fellowships for its 32nd Annual 
Summer Fellowship Program in Early 
American History ad Material Culture 
from June 15 to August 15, 1987. 
Seminar discussions, lectures, field trips 
and research projects give students the 
opportunity to interpret early American 
history and culture.
You will enjoy six to eight weeks of 
exciting lectures,surpising studysessions 
and most importantly, you will have the 
opportunity to meet fascinating people 
who enjoy the wonderful world of 
museum curation as much as you do. 
The program is open to students who are 
sophomores, juniors or seniors as of 
January 1,1987 in American colleges.
Many of the more than 200 students 
who have been appointed Fellows in the 
Program have gone on to further study in 
museum training and to careers in 
museums and historical societies.
To obtain an application, write to: 
Historic Deerfield, Inc., 1987 Summer / 
Fellowships, Deerfield, MA 01342.
By JENNISEVERA
Tartan Laundryroom Entertainment Cticic
You've seen him before, but you never 
knew who he was. You've pitied 
him, but you never knew shy.
You've often asked 
yourself the question,
"Who was that 
strange man" but 
you never found an 
answer. Today, 
however, is your 
grandest day of 
enlightenment.
This man is the 
dreaded, infamous 
Laundromat La-La !
His eyes have a 
constant glazed look from 
continued staring at his 
tumbling clothing in the dryer.
He weighs 379 pounds from the long 
hours spent sitting on the hard laundromat 
benches nibbling vending machine junkfood. 
And he can describe in graphic detail every 
washer and dryer in the laundromat.
All of this because of the lack of anything
to do while waiting for his laundry! And this 
unhappy fate can happen to you!
But don't despairThe Laundry Room, 
Pittsburghs largest laundromat 
located in Squirrel Hill, is 
.ling something to change 
banal task of 
laundry into "good 
clean fun," thus 
sparing the rest of us 
from the fate of the 
Laundromat La-La. 
This fall, 
customers of the 
Laundry Room 
will be offered the 
opportunity to
participate in
"Launderobics," a halfhour aerobic workout 
prepared by Spa Lady to combat 
threat of those extra pounds. The 
workout takes place among the washers and 
dryers and each participant will get a free twoweek trial membership to Spa Lady. The 
Launderobis type sessions are scheduled for 
Sunday, October 26, and Wednesday,
October 22 and 29 this month. Who 
needs Jane Fonda? Stay lean while you 
clean!
On Saturday, October 25, from 11:30 
a.m. to 1:30 p.m., two seniors from 
Duquesne, Nick Orbich and Kim Engle, 
will present Music to Wash By, a violin 
and flute duet Dry your clothes to 3/4 
time!
On Teusday, October 21, from 1-3 pm, 
the Community College of Allegheny 
County will give "mini-assessment" 
fitness checks that measure blood 
pressure and body fat composition.
In addtion, one day a week there will be 
a "Breakfast Club" special, during which 
coffie and donuts will be served to early 
morning customers; a "Free Dryer Day" 
when a free ten-minute dryer cycle is 
given for each warshload; and twice a 
month, there will be "Blanket Bonus 
Days" when blankets can be warshed for 
half price.
Volume Discount Tickets also will be 
offered to frequent warshers. Customers 
pick up a ticket and get it stamped every 
time they use a warsher, and if they can 
dirty ten loads within 30 days, they win a 
free warsh.
With these specials, the Laundry Room 
hopes to attract new customers and make 
laundry day more exciting for "the 
regulars."
The Laundry Room is located at 2345 
Murray Ave. in Squirrel Hill.
New HOW TO Video for Girls
By JENNISEVERATartan StaffwriterAfter years of sitting in mystification next to
husbands, boyfriends, fathers, etc. engrossed in
watching the traditional Sunday afternoon football
game, the "Football Widows of America" can fight
back. Now available to the public is a new home
video, Tackling Football: AWoman's Guide to
Watching the Game, which helps explain the basics to
women across America.
The 40 minute home video is narrated by Tom 
Dreesan, popular comedian who has appeared in 
episodes of "Facts of Life," "Murder, She Wrote" and 
"T.V.s Bloopers and Practical Jokes"; Tim 
Wrightman, a tight-end for the Chicago Bears; and 
Lois Hale, a Chicago actress and Founder and 
Producing Director of Chicagos Actor's Repertory 
Company.
To explain the key elements of football, Tackling 
Football uses film clips and a football field model 
with moving pieces to designate players. It answers 
just about every question a woman could have about 
football from "How do you make a touchdown?" to 
"What's the difference between a blitz and a safety 
blitz?" And it practically guarantees that once they 
view it, women can watch football "just like one of 
the guys."
Tackling Football is now available at all home video 
retail outlets and can be mail ordered by sending a 
check or money order for $24.95 plus $3.00 shipping 
and handling to: Promotions Plus, 6730 North St., 
Tinley Park, Illinois 60477.
Cool Clothes
By JOSHUA MATTHEW LEVINE
Tartan Features Editor 
Ciub Anonymous on Morewood Avenue clearly says in thier 
latest press release, they are "Pittsburghs most selective vintage 
dothier." They have everything from Pegged Paints to the 
ickets that CFA people wear, and at prices that almost make it 
cheaper to stay in Pittsburgh rather than PeoplExpressing it 
back to the old Bway Bootique.
According to Paula Mahoney, proprietor, "Club Anonymous 
[is] popular with Pittsburgh's Avant-Garde." In fact, as the 
adjacent photo shows, old Cool Clothes, like thepeople who 
wear them, are always in style. Weather you want to be a model, 
or just look like one, join "The Club."
Club Anonymous may be found at 284 Morewood Avenue, 
between Centre and Baum near Shadyside.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanOctober 21, 1986
sssTPieoi
Dear Theo,
I love you. I love you. I love you. You are the man of my 
dreams, you scagly stud. That picture of you in the bathing 
suit just drove me absolutely wild with desire for your fine 
self. I thirst for your lips, I hunger for your nose. I really, 
really, really, really, really, really want to sleep with you. 
Please let meJust a minute here young lady (I assume that you are youngand a lady). But never, never ever assume. Because it makes an "ass out of "u" and "me." I won't have that kind of sleazy talk in my column. Send me a sleazy photo.
Theo
Dear Theo,
The eel has ick, the snail laid a ton of eggs, my wife 
snores sooo loud that I can't ever fall asleep. Ever. What can 
I do? I'm afraid of going insane. I've tried everything to get 
her to stop, but I can't.
Aqua Man 
Dear Man,
Sew a sock onto the back of her negligee and put a tennis 
ball in it. It works every timeuh, the eel of course, not 
your wife.
Theo
Hey Theo,
Yeah, you! I's gettin a little sick of you and your wise ass 
comments and attitude and all. I think you really dum and 
stupit! How you get to be so dum? How bout some guest 
columnists? How bout some fresh faces? How bout some 
new blood? How bout if I kill u?Not An Albatross
Dearest Tross,
Well, you certainly ask a lot of questions. Yes indeedee. 
I'm a little shakey on the killing part, but you or any of 
friends are welcome to guest columnize anytime you wish.
Theo
LONDON
INTERNSHIPS
IT
 Art/Architecture
 Business/Economics
 Engineering
 Human/Health Services
 Journalism/Communications
 Performing Arts
 Politics
All programmes include: 16 semester hour credits, 10-we^k internship, apartment, British faculty. Offered fall, spring and summer semesters.
BOSTON UNIVERSITY
NAME___
ADDRESS. 
CITY___STATE..ZIP.
? Art/Architecture; ? Business/Econ; ? Engineering; ? Hum/Health Serv;
? Journ/Comm; ? Performing Arts; ? Politics Of
Return To London Internships, 143 Bay State Rd . Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9888
SAM KINISON
WITH SPECIAL GUEST CARLLaBOVE
LIVE on stage at GRAFFITI
ThursdayOctober 308 and 10:30pm
Tickets: $11.50 Advance $12.50 Day of Show 
On Sale at Graffiti, National Record Marts + Oasis Stores, 
and Heads Together, Squirrel HillFor info call: 363-0500
LOUDER THAN HELL
HOW FAR WILL YOUR TALENT TAKE YOU?
Apply for the TIME College Achievement profiled in a special promotional section of
Awards and find out. TIME Magazine is searchTIME. Eighty finalists will receive $250 each,
ing for 100 college juniors who have distinguished All 100 students will be given first consideration
themselves by their excellence, in academics and, for internships with participating corporations,
more importantly, exceptional achievement outDeadline for applications is December 31, 
side the classroom. 1986.- Details at your deans office or call 1-800-
The top 20 winners will be awarded $2,500 and 523-5948. In Pennsylvania, call 1-800-637-8509.
TIME
The College Achievement Awards

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Home is Where the Heart Is
Returning members of the Class of 
1956 showed their school spirit 
while marching in the Homecoming 
Parade.
Photo by Andy Gillespie.
By JOSH REUBEN
Tartan Supplement Writer
"Home is Where the Heart Is," was the 
title of this year's 2nd Annual Alumni 
Dinner Show which was held last Friday 
night in the Skibo Ballroom. The show 
featured songs and dances by students and 
alumni in what was billed as a 
"Lighthearted Review."
Immediately after the dinner, an ensemble 
consisting of seven girls and two guys sang 
"Heart" from Damn Yankees to the alumni 
audience. The group was dressed in a 
variety of styles including gowns for some 
of the women, and college "prep" clothes 
for the men. Some of the girls were even 
dressed in traditional Carnegie Tech plaid 
skirts and wore "C" sweaters. All of this 
was in order to add a touch of style and 
nostalgia to the show.
Master of Ceremonies for the evening was 
Mr. David Crantz (A 48). Mr. Crantz was 
a CFA graduate and spent most of the 
evening going for laughs by poking fun at 
his former classmates. He also joked 
around with the ensemble by asking if they 
even knew who wrote and originally 
performed most of the songs they were 
singing. Unfortunatly, few of the 
performers knew the answers.
Mr. Crantz followed the opening number 
with a 10 minute monologe. He took pride 
by saying, "This is my 3,000 free dinner 
since I graduated-another American success 
story from Carnegie Mellon." He also had 
some problems in regard to the actual name 
of his alma mater, "Camegie-Mellon 
University, Carnegie Mellon, CMU, CM~ 
is people. It's not a machine, not a 
machine, not a machine, not a machine." 
At several places throughout the show, the 
point that people (the students and faculty, 
mainly) are the most important elements at 
Carnegie Mellon, not the computers, 
robots, or any one academic discipline.
After the opening monologue, which 
included some off-color comentaries and 
jokes, Shelley Dawson (A'89) sang "My 
Home" from Chocolate Soldier. She had to 
alter the lyrics of the song a little bit in 
order to make it fit into the school's 
homecoming theme. One of the lines was, 
"My life is CMU..."
Mitsi Huff (A'89) and Karla Rosenthal 
(A'90) followed Shelley with a song and 
tap dance routine to "Won't You Come 
Home, Bill Bailey." Mr. Crantz tried to 
put one of his fellow classmates on the 
spot by announcing that Mr. Jack Purcell 
(A'41) would accompany the girls on the 
trombone. Mr. Purcell was to perform 
later in the show but the MC ridiculed him 
for "Missing his cue in the girls' song. 
Throughout the evening, Mr. Crantz called 
out various members of the audience and
told stories or made jokes about them. It 
was interesting to here the alumni 
reminicence like that. It made the show 
more personal and more fun because 
everyone in the audience was subject to Mr. 
Crantz's comments which were funny 
without being insulting.
Ms. Jeri Jackson, was the next person to 
perform for the crowd and sang "Jessie, 
You Are My Home." Ms. Jackson 
graduated from the Margaret Morrison 
Womens' College in 1956 and has been 
performing professional for years. She 
was currently in a cabaret show in New 
York and decided to come and perform at
the Homecoming show. Her experienced 
singing style was an interesting contrast to 
the younger vocalists who perfomed during 
the show.
After Ms. Jackson, some of the ensemble 
members did a medley of old standards that 
had been altered in order to accomodate the 
show's theme.
The set included "Home in Pittsburgh 
Pennsylvania," "I Left My Heart In
Uptown Oakland," "Deep in the Heart of 
Skibo," and finally, "My Old Carnegie 
Home." The group included Eric Serr 
(A'89), Leslie Wiegle (A'90), Anne 
Svedberg (A'87), Mary a Beth Spring
(A'90), and Shelley Dawson. The songs 
were meant to poke fun at various parts of 
life at CMU as well as the Pittsburgh area. 
The crowd loved it.
Mr. Crantz introduced the next song as a 
torch ballad featuring Denise Meyer (A'89) 
and the "Torchette" trio. Denise sang "My 
Heart Belongs To Me," with the trio 
singing backup. The song was going 
beautifuly until the cord fell out of Denise's 
microphone while the trio was singing. A 
stage hand quickly got a spare microphone 
to Denise and she did not skip a beat when 
she was to resume her solo. Most of the 
audience applauded Denise's style under 
pressure as well as her talent.
The most entertaining number was "My 
Heart Belongs To Daddy" sung by Anne 
Svedberg. While Anne was singing, all of 
the girls of the ensemble came out and 
gave hugs and kisses to various men in the 
audience. At first, no one was really quite 
sure what was going on, then when it 
became apperant that it was all part of the 
show, the men were all too happy to 
participate. Anne even singled out her real 
daddy and Mr. Svedberg got a hand from the 
crowd.
One of the more moving performances of 
the evening came from the duet of "Home" 
from The Wiz sung by Gregg Brandt (A'89) 
and Mary a, Spring. This duet was followed 
by another. Leslie Wiegle and Eric Sherr 
sang "When Johnny Comes Marching 
Home." Mr. Crantz commented to the 
crowd that one of the members of the 
perfomers said that the song was from 
World War II. "Not quite kid," said the 
MC, "That song was from the Civil War. 
I ought to know, I was there!"
Next it was the piano player's turn to do a 
solo. Mark Burnell (A'78 84) who is 
Dircter of the Jazz Choir and who 
accompanied all of the vocalists during the 
show sang Neil Diamond's "Heartlight." 
He added a little extra to the piece by 
"jazzing" it up towards the end while he 
played and sang.
Jack Purcell, at last, came out to play 
something that he knew "by heart." He 
played a song that was written for the 1940 
Scotch'n Soda show and which Glen Miller 
turned down when he and his big band came 
to play at that year's Spring Carnival. Mr. 
Purcell eventually sold the idea of playing 
the song to Tommy Dorsey who made it 
into a hit. Everyone at the show knew 
what the song was except me-Mr. Purcell 
never said the songs title.
The finale of the show was the song 
"Heart to Heart" which waS performed by 
the entire ensemble. All of the voices 
blended in perfect unison and this was 
clearly the highlight of the show. With 
any luck at all, next year's alumni show 
will be just as good as this years was.

---------------------------------------------------

Crowned Mr. and Miss. Varsity are 
Robert Bowie and Sarah Fay.
Photo by Andy Gillespie.
Photo by Andy Gillespie.
Carnegie Mellon 
Alumni view "A 
Renewal, which was 
that traced the 
changes here on campus.
University 
Time For 
an exhibit 
architectural
Photo by Federico Haffoum.
Parading around Tech Field 
their 1927 vintage fire engine 
some of the members of the 
Kappa Alpha fraternity.

---------------------------------------------------

Sigma Tau Gamma proudly parades 
their first place float in the 
Homecoming Parade.
Photo by Andy Gillespie.
Cheerleaders and Band members 
join in a victory dance to celebrate 
the victorious Tartans.
Photo by Ruth Matsumura.
Carnegie Mellon University 
students and Alumni took part in 
several Scottish athletic events. 
This one involved throwing a grain 
sack over a bar with a pitch fork.
Photo by Aaron Young.
Tartan cheerleaders helped rally 
the football team on to a 14-0 
defeat of Thiel College.
Photo by Andy Gillespie.

---------------------------------------------------

Fastest Growing Software Company in the United States 
Seeks Top Gun Candidates
0
If you are in the top 10% of your graduating class and have academic credentials to brag about (great G P.A., high school valedictorian, National Merit recognition, et cetera), then you should talk to Oracle about joining the best. Oracle is the fastest growing software company in the United States and the creators of ORACLE, the number one Relational DBMS that has been chosen over IBM and DEC by users polled in the Software News Users Survey.
Last year I hired over 50 of the top graduates from the finest schools. This year I am looking for even more graduates for every area of Oracle, including: Development, Sales, Support, Marketing, Consulting, Finance, and International.
If you want to discuss opportunities at Oracle, sign up for an interview or call me directly ( be sure to leave a message if I am unavailable).
Larry LynnDirector of Recruiting Oracle Corporation (415) 598-8183
A career at Oracle Corporation will give you:
 Exceptional Compensation
We pay exceptional salaries for exceptional employees. We offer complete medical/ 
dental/life coverage, and flexible hours, and every employee, through our stock option 
program, has equity in the company.
 Fascinating and Challenging Work
W'e need to staff development, marketing, and support positions to work on projects in 
distributed database, interactive graphics, and netw orking of heterogeneous computers, 
to name a few.
 Exposure to the latest and most advanced technology
We already offer products on Suns, Apollos, MicroVaxes, and almost every IBM machine 
including personal computers and the RT PC. Today we are developing products using 
technology that is not yet in the marketplace.
 A superior work environment
Oracle is headquartered in a new building in the rolling hills overlooking the beautiful 
San Francisco Bay. Additionally, we have offices in most major cities in North America, 
and subsidiaries in all major markets worldwide.
 A superb group of peers
Company-wide, we hire only the best and the brightest from the finest of schools. When 
you work at Oracle, everyone you work with is a Top Gun Graduate.
 A sign-on bonus
If you meet the Oracle standard of excellence, you may be eligible to receive a one-time 
bonus equal to 10% of your annual starting salary'.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanOctober 21,1986
Help For Non English TA's
By Judy Haraburda
Tartan StaffWriter
Raise your hand if you've ever had a TA 
who had very little command of the English 
language. Frustrating, eh? Imagine if you 
will, how the TA feels. Most foreign 
graduate students or TAs are especially 
brilliant in their fields and to have to deal 
with a radically different environment, both 
socially and academically, can be a very 
aggravating experience.
The English as a Second Language (ESL) 
Center, now in its second year of operation, 
offers free English tutoring for foreign CMU 
students in order to help overcome the 
language barrier and cultural problems.
A staff of ten tutors, mainly 'undergraduate 
work-study students trained in languageteaching techniques, provides a one -on-one 
tutoring system that allows students to get 
personalized assistance in areas where help is 
most need.
Peggy Allen, director, stresses that tutors 
aid students in coping with cultural and 
attitude differences, in addition to improving 
speaking and listening skills. Tutors use 
their language and cross-cultural experience
to facilitate the students' adjustments into 
American society. Many of the foreign 
students express difficulty in asking and 
answering questions in class and lecture. The 
American classroom differs from many 
others in student-teacher interaction. In 
China, for example, professors demand great 
respect and would be offended by students' 
asking questions. The more casual 
atmosphere of the 
American classroom 
therefore requires 
adjustment for both 
foreign teachers and 
students.
CMUs foreign 
students sometimes 
also find that poor 
communication skills and hesitancy or 
impatience on the part of other students can 
virtually cut them off from the outside 
world. The ESL center encourages students 
to make friends and to overcome the 
language barrier so they can integrate into 
the college community more easily.
The ESL Center also provides non-credit 
classes in speaking and listening as well as
The more casual funded by the CMU T
were
1  1  adjuESL
in pronunciation and writing. Students at 
ESL may also use audio tapes in a language 
Lab and in the Speech Lab computers use 
artificial intelligence to mimic normal 
speech patterns graphically. The Center is 
also currently investigating the development 
of computer assisted linguistics programs.
Before the ESL Center was established and 
funded by the CMU Teaching Center, there 
were virtually no existing 
programs to facilitate the 
adjustment of of the 
foreign student into our 
strange American society. 
Instrumental in 
establishing the 
program were Ted 
Fenton, director of 
CMLTs teaching center, English Department 
linguist Tom Huckin and President Siret. 
President Cyert brought complaints about 
foreign TA's to the attention of Ted Fenton, 
who arranged meetings of graduate students 
_________________________________:_______
and professors. These meetings led to the 
discovery of larger problems in 
communication and the need for a major 
program. Several graduate students said they 
stopped going to classes altogether because 
they couldn't understand' the professors and in 
some cases professors practically wrote 
dissertations for students with poor listening 
and writing skills.
With the approval of the Resource 
Allocation Board and additional input from 
CMU faculty and students, the program 
began. Before school began, a two week 
orientation program helped students find 
housing, give tours and administer 
diagnostic tests. Classes and workshops 
worked to improve writing, speaking and 
listening skills. The ELS Center, located in 
the U.S. Bureau of Mines, welcomes any 
foreign students and is open weekdays from 
9 am to 7 pm and 11 am to 5 pm on 
Saturday and Sunday.
For more information call x4979.
Now.. .Two Pregnancy Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Fbrbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Downtown
107 Sixth Street 
300 Pulton Building 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
(412) 562-1900
Womens 
Health Services,
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call for hours and instructions. 
Abortion services and confidential counseling available.
DO YOU NEED 
A JOB?!-CAN YOU TYPE?! (WELL, THAT IS, 40-50+ wpm) -only can work eves or weekends?! with decent wages?!
COME TO 
 THE TARTAN 
FOR WORK!
by calling x2111, or x2112 
or by leaving a message on the 
bulletin board outside of Skibo 50
-workstudy preferredWe feature GM cars like this Chevy Chevette
Honor Roller
National wants to put you on 
their honor roll. You can rent a 
car if you're 18 or older, have a 
valid driver's license, current 
student l.D. and a cash deposit. 
Stop by and fill out a short cash 
qualification form at least 24- 
hours in advance.
You pay for gas used and return 
car to renting location. Most 
major credit cards accepted.
Non-discountable rate applies to Chevy Chevette or similar -*i:c t ar and is subject to change without notin. Kates slightly lower for drivers over 25. Specific cars subject to availability. Certain daily minimums apply. Weekend rate available from noon Thursday to Monday. Call for details.
$24
95PER DAY 
WEEKENDS
100 miles per day included. 
Additional mileage 20 per mile.
// National Car Rental -,
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention.
261-5500
682-1444
434 Boulevard of the Allies 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland)
USED BOOKS 
AT
BARGAIN PRICES
Bryn Mawr-Vassar Book Store
4612 Winthrop Street 
Oakland (Off Craig St.)
Tuesday through Saturday 10am-4pm 
Closed Nov. 27-30 and Dec. 25-Jan. 1 
Books Make the Nicest Gifts
Futon $gle
Manufactured: Carlisle Mattress Factory 
5116 Penn Ave. Pgh, PA 15224 
Call 661-6499 (9am-4pm)
Oriental Mattress: Light weight, easily packed up for moving 
and storage. Perfect for apts, dorms, whereever space is limited
DEMO STUDIOQuality Recording You Can Afford
JACK IRWIN
1052 Franklin Drive Bethel Park, PA 15102 (412) 835-6398
THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY

---------------------------------------------------

Student SenateThe Link
Happy Hour
Date: Friday, October 24 
Time: 5:00-6:30pm 
Place: Scotland Yard
Bring your comments, suggestions, and friends.Get to know your senators.
Let your voice be heard.HOOK ONTO THE LINK
P.S. There will be free chicken nuggets, mozzarella stick, drinks, etc.
Call x2115 for more information.
Campus
Affairs
Chairman 
Eric Rocher
Do you have any 
academic gripes?
We are here to 
listen and act!
SEND US A MESSAGE:
-Student Senate Meeting Tuesday at 
7:00pm in the Wherret Room. 
-Student Senate Mailbox, Skibo 59.
SS2P@TE
-Talk to a student Senator.
-Call x2115.
Campus is yours. 
Are you satisfied?
Chairman 
Leslie Frank
Funding & 
Recognition
Let us know where 
you want your 
activities fee to go.Co-Chairman 
Tamal Mukherjee
Co-Chairman 
Uday Patnaik
Public Relations 
We're here to strengthen 
THE LINK!
-Funded by Activities Fee.
Chairman 
Nadine Flvnn

---------------------------------------------------

The Twenty First 
Century Overture
iere will time take us next?
To an information utopia where knowledge belongs to everyone? To an age when the computer 
becomes one with communications and thought travels everywhere, anywhere and at anytime?
To a brave new world where electronic intuition solves the impossible problems that have 
followed us through history?
Getting to this future first is our mission.
Were Bell Communications Research (Bellcore), established as the
central source for the research and technologies that will enable the 
Bell Operating Companies to meet the needs of the future.
We are working in areas that include software development; 
applied research; information systems; systems engineering; 
network planning services; and equipment assessment.
Our purpose is to know more, understand more, see more
so that we can provide others with the expert advice they need 
in many different technical and scientific areas. Our mandate 
is to provide leading edge answers. The Bell Operating Companies 
look to us for the the software and technologies they need 
to operate efficiently.
We are a brain trust that imagines a new tomorrow.
We have opportunities at our northern and central New 
Jersey locations for individuals with PhD, MS or BS 
degrees in Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, 
Mathematics, Operations Research or Physics.
If you want 
to write the 
technological 
harmonies that the future 
will play, sign up at the Career 
Planning and Placement Office to
Intei*view with us 
on campus 
November 14
Alternatively, send your resume, detailing your education 
and experience to: Manager, Technical Employment, Bell 
Communications Research, RRC, Department 127/4243/86, 
CN 1300, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854.
An equal opportunity employer
Bell
Communications
Research
Communications is our middle name.

---------------------------------------------------

Senate's Fall seat elections are coming!!
The elections for Student Senate seats will be held on 
November 18th and 19th.
These are the open seats:
Mellon College of Science  3 seats
Carnegie Institute of Technology  5 seats
Graduate School of Industrial Administration  1 seat
Humanities and Social Sciences  3 seats
College of Fine Arts  2 seats
Industrial Management  1 seat
If you are interested in running, petitions are available starting today at the Skibo Information Desk and they are due on Tuesday, November 4th at 5:00. 
Turn them in at the Skibo Information Desk c/o Election Board/A Phi O by the above date.
If you have any questions contact Peter Cohen at x2115, or attend any Senate meeting  Tuesdays at 7:00pm in the Wherrett Room.
/
--Funded by the Activities Fee.
Spirit Annual 
Talent Show
October 26,1986 
7:30 pm
Skibo Ballroom
price: $3.00
Writing Position Available
Part time position to be filled as soon as possible. Experience a must. Decision will be based upon examination of past work, quality of 
references, and overall applicant skill and talent.
A fine opportunity for a hard working individual, offering quick 
promotion ard excellent fringe benefits.
Call Joshua Levine at 268-2111 for a local interview,
Let's talk about your future._________________
This space contributed as a public service.
THIS YEAR 
PUT AN ENDTOYOUR 
DEADLY
Great American SmokeoutNov.
AMERICAN I CANCER SOCIETY
Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanOctober 21,1986
Mens Cross Country Disappointed
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter 
Going into mid-semester break, the men's 
cross-country team's season seemed a 
success. They had a record of 7-0 in dual 
meets and a sixth place finish at the tough 
Indiana Invitational. However, this is team 
that had very high expectations this year, and 
has been critical of its own performance. 
Injuries and inconsistent performances have 
left them wondering which team they are. 
Are they the team that came in a 
disappointing fifth at the Fairmont State 
Invitation on October 11th, or the team that 
took first Saturday at the St. Vincent 
Invitational? ,
At Fairmont, the Tartans were without 
sophomores Pat Noll and Tom Ford due to 
illness; however, they still got out to a fast 
start led by freshman Dave Supp and junior 
Paul Camine. The course over the lawns of 
the Fairmont Country Club contributed to 
Supp's eight place finish. Said Supp, "I felt 
real strong in the beginning. I tried to lead. 
I didn;t know which way to go and I had to 
run extra distance. Finally someone who 
knew where to go took the lead. I hung on 
him for a while, but I just died off at the 
end. I think if I'd just hung on at the end I 
would've place in the top five.
Camine also fell back at the end. He had 
shared the lead with Supp over the early part 
of the race until he dropped back to his 
fifteenth place finish. After the race Camine 
reflected, "It was really smooth for the first 
two miles, just like a training pace. When 
we hit the hil right before the real sharp 
uphill, the pace picked up. It was like, 
'Boom! Lets go!"'
Following Supp and Camine across the 
finish line were Len O'Neal, Keith Stopen, 
Scott Foerst, Tim Berger, and Paul Mayer.
The Tartans did much better the following 
week at St. Vincents. This despite missing
Noll and Ford again, as well as Stopen, all 
of them being sidelined with strep throat.
The men were again led by the running of 
Supp and Camine who crossed the finish 
line of the five mile course together with a 
time of 26:36. Head Coach Gary Meckley 
was much more positive after the race then 
he has been in previous weeks. "The team 
looked very good. The leaders didn't look 
like they were working very hard."
The men now have only one more race 
before the PAC Championship at Grove 
City. A different lineup will probably run 
for Carnegie Mellon Saturday in Schenley 
Park. Coach Meckley remarked, "Im going 
to have to rest a couple who've run every 
week as a precaution. The kids who've been 
sick will have to run against Thiel, it'll be a 
good race for them to get back in."
Womens X-Country
Which team are the Tartans? With one 
week to go until the PACs, the runners 
seem to think they are the team that ran at 
St. Vincents. After winning seven 
consecutive PAC cross-country titles, the 
Tartans expect to take number eight and are 
already looking ahead to the NCAA Eastern 
Regional Championships on November 
15th. According to Stopen, "We have the 
potential to win the regionals. Right now 
(at Fairmont) we weren't even close to full 
strength. If we we all have good days, I 
have no douby we can take the regionals.
Coach Meckley aggrees, "If we ever get 
healthy, we have the potential to have four 
guys who can run together. If that happens, 
we could make it to the NCAA 
Championships, I believe."
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
Philadelphia, Washington, New York. 
Many Carnegie Mellon students left for 
those and other cities over mid-semester 
break, but not the women's cross-country 
team. Instead, they travelled south to 
Fairmont, West Virginia to compete in the 
Fairmont State Invitational. The Lady 
Tartans finished fourth out of eight schools.
The race was an unusual one for many 
reasons. Due to the large number of male 
racers competing at Fairmont, the male B 
teams ran with the ladies. They did not affect 
Francesca Crannell's race. "I think that most 
of us were far enough into the women's pack 
that we didn't notice the men running in 
there. It only afffected me by making us 
share the starting line with us." However, 
Mickey Reisinger disagreed, "Near the two 
mile mark, tHey were going in the opposite 
direction. We were going uphill and they
**0URsan**PIZZA>CHEESE 
SUPREMEFREE
DELIVER
WITHIN 30
MINUTES ? ? ? ? * 622-7000
12" CHEESE 
$4.40 
16" CHEESE 
$6.50
ITALIAN
HOAGIE
12" WHOLE...$3.95 
6" HALF...$2.00
COUPON
Our Gang 
Pizza
$1.00 OFF Large Pizza 
622-7000
10/31/86
4523 Centre Avenue 
Oakland 
I Sun-Thurs 11am-1pm 
Fri - Sat 11am-2am
I
r
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
L,
COUPON
Our Gang 
Pizza
50c OFFSmall Pizza 
622-7000
Expins 10/31/86
1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
J
were going downhill."
The appearance of Pitt made a greater 
impact. Lori Wood, who holds the Schenley 
course record and Robin Hebauer of the Lady 
Panthers led a quick pace. Freshman Theresa 
Pane, the normal pace setter for Carnegie 
Mellon led the Lady Tartans early one, but 
after taking a slight tumble, the lead was 
passed to Crannell. Crannell and Pane 
followed finishing tenth and fourteenth 
respectively.
The Lady Tartans face Thiel College at 
home this Saturday before travelling to 
Grove City for the PAC Championships. 
Acccording to Head Coach Mindy Maxwell, 
the ladies are already gearing up for the 
PACs and beyond. "We're looking forward 
to the PACs...We should beat Thiel and I 
think we should be able to place three 
runners in the top five at Grove Citv...I'd 
really like to have a good showing at the 
(NCAA Eastern) Regionals."
Swimming Coach
Continued from Page 24
quiet. If they didn't find a suitable coach \ 
would've continued to coach. If the students 
knew I was in the market of not coaching 
they could think, 'She doesn't want to 
coach.' There would have been that real 
uncomfortableness if I'd continue to coach."
The search continued through the fall. One 
coach was offered the job, seemed to accept 
and then turned it down. Then Jim Perkins 
entered the picture. Perkins was a four-time 
All-American breaststroker as a student at 
the University of Florida and had formerly 
coached at Cornell University and Ithaca 
College. He moved to Pittsburgh two years 
ago when his wife started working at KDKATV and he has been working outside of 
sports until now. A little over a month ago, 
he found out about the job. "I heard about it 
through the wrestling coach at Cornell, he'd 
seen the ad and I called about the job. I 
interviewed for the job three weeks ago, and 
was offered the job a week ago." Perkins 
acccepted the offer last Wednesday.
The turn of events provided a rare situation 
with the former coach still on campus, 
Perkins seemed greatly pleased by that. 
"I'ave already relied heavily on Donna for 
advice on a number of matters, and I will 
continue to do that. She's been great in 
offering help, I'd really be lost without her."
On the whole, both Banner and Morosky 
seemed happy with the decision. Said 
Morosky, "Now thats it's all over, I feel a 
little relieved. But I still feel real loyal to 
the swimmers." Banner added, "I would've 
liked to see Donna stay on and coach forever. 
But the credentials of Jim Perkins were 
outstanding and the Dean of Students was 
anxious to fill her position full-time.
As for Perkins, he inherits a team that 
came in second in the PAC last year and 
seems eager to start his new task. "We think 
we're going to be here for a while, we like 
Pittsburgh and we hope to stay here."
LAST CHANCE 
THIS SEMESTER!!!
TO TAKE THE FREE HAM 
RADIO NOVICE CLASS.
<rGet Your License This Weekend,
When: Sat / Sun, Oct. 25/26 10 am to 4 pm
Where: Wean 5409
Who: Carnegie Tech Radio Club
No Registration Necessary
Funded by Your Activities Fee
J

---------------------------------------------------

Page 19The TartanOctober 21, 1986
Womens Tennis Team Crowned PAC Champs
B, NEAL LEVENE
Tartan Staffwriter 
"\ said we would win and we did," Sohee 
Chung exclaimed enthusiastically after a first 
lace finish in this year's Presidents Athletic 
Conference Championships by the CMU 
Womens Tennis Team. This was the team's 
first win at the PACs, and it represents an 
extraordinary improvement over last year's 
distant fourth place finish.
The championship tournament consists 
0f three rounds of single elimination 
matches in all six singles positions and all 
three doubles positions. In all positions 
four players are seeded according to their 
regular season performances. The #1 seed 
receives a bye in the first rounds, and she 
advances into the next round. The other 
three seeded players compete against three 
other unseeded players. The winner of the 
match involving the #4 seed plays the #1 
seed in the semifinals. The winners of the 
#3 and #4 seeds matches play each other. 
The winning players then advance to the 
finals. For every win or any bye the player's 
team receives one point. The team with the 
most points at the end of the tournament 
wins.
The first round of singles and doubles as 
well as the semifinals in singles were 
scheduled for Friday. The semifinals in 
doubles and the finals in singles and doubles
were scheduled for Saturday. However, due 
to rain on Friday, most of the singles 
semifinals were postponed until Saturday 
morning. This resulted in many CMU team 
members playing four matches on Saturday.
In the first round of singles and doubles 
CMU received five points before the matches 
even began (3 points for the #1 seeds and 
points to Tracy Boyd and the team of 
Messick/Boyd who received byes). In singles 
all the Tartan players advanced to the 
semifinals winning their matches fairly 
easily.
During the semifinals CMU ran into 
some bad luck when Senior Captain Darla 
Messick defaulted her match to W&J's 
Elizabeth Davis. Messick misunderstood at 
what time her match started, and she arrived 
30 minutes late at which time Davis had 
already accepted the default. In a show of 
support for their Captain, the CMU team 
dedicated the rest of the tournament to 
Messick, and they set out to win it for her.
On Saturday Suzy Dottor had an extremely 
difficult match against W&J's Cathy Celia. 
Dottor explained after the match that she 
went into the match quite nervous. After 
losing the first set, she continued to have 
difficulty in the second set. She was down 3-
2, 3-love in the sixth game, when the jazz 
band who was playing for the Homecoming 
celebration played New York, New York 
which Dottor claimed "psyched her up" and
calmed her down. She finished the match 
winning the last two sets 6-2, 6-3.
Going into the finals Grove City had 
15 points and both CMU and John Carroll
14 points. John Carroll, Grove City, and 
Carnegie Mellon all appeared in five finals. 
CMU faced either John Carroll or Grove 
City in four of the five matches whereas 
JCU and Grove City faced each other three 
times. It was the hope of the Tartans that 
John Carroll and Grove City would split 
their matches, taking each other out of 
contention while Carnegie Mellon won their 
finals.
In a demanding match Beth Cavanaugh 
won the #3 singles final in a 6-4, 7-5 match 
against Grove City's Devon Cairns. She said 
she was very nervous during much of the 
first set. She attributed the support of Keith 
Grumet for eventually calming her down in 
her match. (Grumet is CMU's #1 Men's 
Tennis player.) In reaction to Cavanaugh's 
win, Hawk stated, "I think that she wanted it 
[the PAC tide] badly and her aggressive 
style of play is what gave her the edge."
Another CMU first place was won by #5 
Sohee Chung against her opponent from 
Grove City. After the match she stated, "My 
cheering section really helped. Im so 
psyched for next season."
Tracy Boyd also chalked up a first place 
finish by defeating her John Carroll 
opponent Linda Papcom 1-6,6-4,6-1. After
a sporadic start, Boyd was able to pull her 
game together and play an aggressive second 
two sets. Over the past two weeks several 
of Boyd's teammates commented that Boyd 
has improved immensely since the 
beginning of the season, and they expect 
Boyd to play an important part in the 
Tartan's future.
The last first place finish came from the 
Suzy Dottor/Beth Cavanaugh doubles team. 
Everyone expected them to win, and they did 
not let anyone down winning their match 6-
2, 6-0 against their Hiram opponents. This 
was both Dottors and Cavanaugh's fourth 
match of the day, however Suzy had played 
two exceptionally long singles matches. 
This was Beth's second first place finish of 
the day.
Ironically, after two days of intense tennis 
the CMU team had to sit and wait for the 
results of the #1 and #2 doubles finals. In 
both finals John Carroll played Grove City. 
If either had won both the tournament could 
have ended in a tie, however, John Carroll 
won the #1 doubles and Grove City won the 
#3 doubles, thus, finalizing the CMU 
victory.
Upon receiving the trophy, the team 
rededicated the win to a teary-eyed Captain 
Darla Messick who will be graduating this 
spring. Carnegie Mellon coach Peter Hawk 
will be this year's recipient of Coach of the 
Year award.
PREPARE YOURSELF FOR A SUCCESSFUL 
LIFE IN AN INTERNATIONAL AND INTERDEPENDENT WORLD!
STUDY ABROAD!
WE CAN HELP YOU! COME TO THE:OFFICE FOR INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION
19 WARNER HALL, X7595
Boston University
WASHINGTON 
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS
 Interested in learning aboutand working in  governmental and political 
affairs in Washington. D.C.r Juniors and Seniors with at least a 3.0 average are 
invited to appl\ for a one-semester, lb credit learning experience in the 
nation's capital.
 Supervised internships based on vour specilu interests are arranged with 
members of Congress. Executive Branch agencies, media organizations, trade 
associations, public interest groups, corporate public-af fiwrs offices. and educa
tion associations.
 Seminars with leading government experts, supervised bv Boston I niversitx 
facultv. focus on legislative and current polio issues.
 Scholarship assistance is available. I he application deadline for the spring 
semester is October 27. I98b. For information and an application, complete 
and send the form below.
Please send information and an application for Boston I niversitv s Washington 
Internship Programs to:
Mail to:_______________________________ Boston I nnetsitv\anic Wiishiiijiion lim-nisliip ho^iaim(.!>lleije (>f 1-itni al Ails 72") ( oinmouw.ealtli Avenue It'll' pi w me  Room I Hi,Boston. MA 112'JI 'i
Address
State
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
Easily accessible by bus from CMU
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland ., , _ .... ,WeWe Master Card, Visa acceptedOo2-5U5U Qa|| for appointment
m l
-sirfYOU
LLLL_____________Uiiitf.iwtriTii
In fact, well even pay you more than $600 a month while you attend. Thats in addition to paying for your tuition, required books and fees.Its all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. And here is how it works!If youre selected for a Physicians Scholarshipfrom the Army, Navy, or Air Forceyoure commissioned as an officer in the Reserves.While youre in school, youll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and years of scholarship assistance received.As an Armed Forces physician youll receive officer s pay and benefits, and enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. Youll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology.But most important, while youre in medical school well help pay the bills. For more information, send in this coupon. There is no obligation.
VEQI Tli me how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program I CO* can help pay my medical school expenses I understand there is no obligation. Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, PQ Box 2865Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102 9009Check up to three: ? ARMY ONAVY ? AIR FORCE
Please pnnt ail information dearly and completely
Mara:--------------------------------------------------------------DMate DFenUe
Address-Apt #-
City-State-2pi
PhonelSoc.Sec.Nal
CoHegeBirth [ -DateiDay][
Field of Study -Graduation [ -Date i
The information you voluntarily provide will b used for recruiting purposes only The more complete it is the better we can respond to your request (Authority 10 USC 503 and E0 9397)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanOctober 21,19861
Womenfs Tennis Ends Season Versus PAC Rivals
By NEAL LEVENE
Tartan Stqffwriter
This year's Carnegie Mellon women's 
tennis team finished their regular season on 
Thursday, October 16. In the past two weeks 
leading up to the President's Athletic 
Conference championships, the women 
Tartans played a total of five matches losing 
only one and sweeping three. They finished 
the season with a record of 7-2 overall and a 
commendable 5-1 record in the PAC having 
lost only to Grove City, last year's winner 
of PAC finals.
All of the matches of the past two weeks 
were played against PAC teams and counted 
heavily in the seeding for the PAC 
championships.
On Tuesday, October 7, the Tartan women 
travelled to Grove City College for one of 
their two most important matches of the 
season. Last year Grove City finished first 
in the PAC Championships. However, their 
#1, #2, and #6 players graduated, and they 
are not nearly as strong as last year.
Unfortunately, due to several weeks of wet 
weather, the team had not played in a match 
situation since September 22. Several 
players complained that they were not as 
ready as they would have liked for their 
toughest match of the season. Carnegie 
Mellon lost to Grove City in a closely 
fought 6-3 match.
Two controversies arose during the match. 
Sohee Chung (#5 singles) had some 
difficulty calling the lines during her match. 
In several crucial situations, she played balls 
that seemed obviously out. She explained 
after the match that when she watches the 
service line too closely, she has trouble 
returning the balls; therefore, she can not
always tell if a ball is in or out. When a 
player does not clearly see a call, she is 
supposed to assume that the ball is in, 
however, many of the calls were not even 
close.
When the coach noticed to what extent 
Chung had trouble seeing the calls, he asked 
the John Carroll Coach if she could appoint 
a line judge. Coach Hawk's request was 
denied according to therules that state the 
player herself must request a line judge. 
Coach Hawk could have at that point told 
Chung to call for a line judge, yet, he did 
not attempt to circumvent the rules. Sohee 
lost, not entirely due to the controversy, 6-4, 
6-7 (6-8), 4-6. After the match, she said, "I 
should have won, but I blew the second set.
Another controversy arose during the #1 
doubles match in which Andrea Benowitz 
and Sohee Chung played against Grove 
Citys Linda Lex and Devon Cairns. In an 
important game during the first set a ball 
rolled onto Grove City's side of the court 
during a volley. Virtually at the same time, 
Lex rocketed a slam directly at Benowitz. 
Andrea was unable to return the ball. 
Immediately after the ball hit the ground, she 
approached the net and asked that the point 
be played over because she had been 
distracted by the ball that had rolled onto the 
court. Her opponents refused her request 
claiming that she had only complained 
because she lost the point. Benowitz 
contends that she did not have time to call a 
"let" because the ball was being returned so 
quickly her reflexes reacted to the ball before 
she could call a "let." The Sohee and Andrea 
lost the game on the next point, and they 
later lost the setand the match
Beth Cavanaugh continued to dominate in
#3 singles as well as #2 doubles. After being 
down twice in the second set, she was able 
to overcome and win her singles match 6-4, 
6-5. Beth and her doubles partner, Suzy 
Dottor, continued their undefeated doubles 
play with a 6-4, 3-6,6-2 victory.
The only other win came from the new #6 
player Tracy Boyd. This was only Boyd's 
second singles match, and she performed 
well, winning 6-3, 6-2. After the match 
Boyd, wearing a "No guts, no glory" T-shirt, 
commented, "It was hard to get back into the 
swing of things after all the rain-outs but I 
felt much more confident and consistent 
today."
Their next match was on Thursday, against 
Thiel. The CMU team massacred the Thiel 
team in a swift 1tyj hour 9-0 victory. None 
of the matches went longer then 6-2, and all 
the team members recorded double victories.
Friday the Tartan women hosted John 
Carroll. In this very important match, 
second only to the Grove City match, CMU 
recorded an extremely hard-foughtwin by 
defeating John Carroll 5-4. Sohee Chung 
defeated her opponent Candie Staszkiewitz in 
a close 7-6 (7-2), 7-6 (7-5) #5 singles 
victory. During the match a member of the 
John Carroll team helped in calling the 
lines. Chung felt good about her win, 
however, she felt she played a better match 
against Grove City. She did not think that 
having the line judge helped or hurt her 
results. After the match, she felt very 
confident about the team's chances in 
the PAC Championships.
Captain Darla Messick won both her #4 
singles and #3 doubles match. After her 4-6, 
6-4, 6-3 victory over opponent Daniella 
Lungoeiv, she commented, "I felt really
nervous during the early parts of the match 
but I relaxed after the second set. I dont like 
to have to come from behind, however, it 
seems that I usually have to. It was a fun 
match."
Beth Cavanaugh also recorded another 
double victory. She won her singles match 
6-2, 6-4 and her doubles match 7-5, 6-3. 
According to many of their teammates, the 
Beth Cavanaugh-Suzy Dottor team should 
have no problem winning the PAC's in I 
doubles.
The team's next match was on Wednesday, 
October 15 against W & J which the Tartan 
women again won cleanly 9-0.
Finally, the Tartans ended their regular 
season with a 9-0 sweep of Hiram i 
University. Andrea Benowitz won her match 
by default since Hiram's #1 player did not 
appear. She commented that "this was the | 
easiest match of the season for me."
During Beth Cavanaugh's #3 singles I 
match, Coach Hawk commented how much 
Cavanaugh, only a freshman, had improved 
over the season. He was particularly I 
impressed with how much more patient she 
was with her game. Beth won her singles 
and doubles matches, thus finishing the | 
season undefeated.
In reviewing the season Coach Peter Hawk 
stated, "The team has improved greatly. I 
originally underestimated the team's ability 
and attitude. We had a very coachable squad 
this year." Coach Hawk believed his team ] 
ready for the PAC Championship. They had 
a chance to compete against all their PAC 
opponents, and had a very strong regular 
season. Since Captain Darla Messick is the 
only senior, the young CMU team will be 
basically the same next year."
flALLQWEBI PART/
...cosiunte, ideas ror -Hicdo V younseN'-r" as iA/&lls 
PROFESSIONAL THEATRICAL 
fKAKE-0VS OCT. 30 \ V, NlM 1 
ftr ap^ourtvnlt' call 682-01*^ 
Come, ita+0 sec. s(\dts last 
year's made-over -faces r&r ideas:
"Trvly o'Trkat
3533 Fovbts Ave-, 
fs^ceeos fkom -cajees severer 
ftsbuigli ubic.'Tiea+re/
\ <* IHaVIIIC club
&G'-106 S. CRAIG ST. 62 '-HAIR
Four Free Colas!
Four free colas with 
any 16" pizza.
One Coupon per pizza. 
Expires: 11/5/86
Fast, Free Delivery
315 N. Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave. 
Phone: 521-2970
Two Free Colas!
Two free colas with 
any 12" pizza.
One Coupon per pizza. 
Expires: 11/5/86
Fast, Free Delivery
315 N.Craig St. 
Phone:681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave. 
Phone: 521-2970

---------------------------------------------------

Natural Food 
and
Spaghetti Dinner 
to follow
SATURDAY NIGHT SKI BOOCT. 25 Rooms8:00 p.m. 12 & 13
SPONSORED BY: BENJAMIN OLENDER FOUNDATION 
FOR FURTHERANCE OF JEWISH EDUCATION AND B.B. HILLEL
$25 Off
Weve just taken whats already a terrific discount available to you on your 
college campus and made it even better. On the only complete software for the 
Apple Macintosh personal computer. Fill out the coupon below and send 
it along with your dated store receipt, completed Jazz registration card and 
the bar code label from the bottom of the Jazz package to:
Lotus Development Corporation, P.O. Box 3006, Cambridge, MA 02139.
Name_________________1______________________D Student
Address_______________
City--------------------------
.? Faculty 
.? Staff
Lotus Jazz
Five function software for the Apple Macintosh integrating spreadsheet, graphics, word processing, database and communications.This offer applies to students, faculty and staff purchasing with personal funds. Institutional purchases do not apply. Offer expires December 31, 1986. Mailings which do not include the four items listed above will not be honored. No facsimiles accepted. Allow 6-8 weeks delivery.
' - 1 '   iS.
. '"".S'  ' 'A?"
I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanOctober 21, 1986
Once Again, The Intramural Report
IoiELitoftaNthe IM Office.4 Mike BartonECE11:01STG4-1
The pool lifeguard for all water polo5 David SalakX-Track11:18DU-C0-4Commissioners:matches will be Gregg Garrison. All game6 John RaceCS11:21
Major LeaguePaulPecora, 621-9124equipment will be in the pool area.7 John PaneCS11:22Minors "B"
Intermediate LeagueVic Banko, X54038 John FixX-Track11:28Army Rote1-4MinorVince Carozza, X5494Soccer9 Mike SchuetteECE11:36The Force3-2Women's LeagueDee Nyzio.Commissioner Major League - Fred10 H. Ekdahl The Neighborhood11:51CIA-A2-2
Deleon; Intermediate League - Stephanie11 Robert FieldsX-Track11:53Physics3-1Please check IM Bulletin Board for gameDanczak - x4815; Minor League - Mike12 Tim DanisonX-Track11:55KDR1-2schedule changes and make up games due toGrzy winski-x4651;13 Rob KisselX-Track12:02Hammerschlag04rain. Any games that need to made up mustLeague games will start November 3rd.14 David DetlefsCS12:03Pi Lam3-2be done thru Mike in the IM Office RoomLAST CALL FOR SIX PERSON15 Jim ConnellyECE12:06Pika4-0101 Gym or call himat X2214 betweenSOCCER.16 Mike EnnertyAFROTC12:08
4:00 p.m. and 5:30p.m. Last call for17 TakaObatakeCS12:17Minors "P"
women's touch football. Final entry date isSix Person Vollevball18 Eric PatersonCS12:19ECE Dynamic Rams4-0October 23. Please call Dee Nyzio at X4608Commisioner: Intermediate League-Dee19 Phil NighECE12:22Boys of McGill1-3to enter your team.Nyzio. Practice time schedule is on IM20 Ed SmithCS12:26Kappa Sig-B2-3With only a few weeks of Touch FootballBuletin Board. Please sign up for 1 court per21 TsorasA Team12:30Lonesome Losers04reamining, the IM board rankings of topteam. Matches will be played at 8:45 pm and22 Gordan Goetsch CS12:31Theta Xi-B1-1teams.9:45 pm starting Monday, October 20th23 Mike PhilipsCS12:32Me Gaints1-2
LAST CALL FOR VOLLEYBALL!24 Robert BowieAFROTC12:37Du-B3-1MAJORS25 David BartA Team12:377th Floor3-1Pika4-0Sports coming up in n^r future
ATO3-1Three Person VolleyballMinors "S"
Crunch Bunch2-1Commissioner-S. Fox-x4259.Overall best timeF-Troop3-1
BackgammonDean DanowskiX Track10:41It Came from McGill0-5INTERMEDIATEEntry due Thursday, Nov. 6 at 4:30pm. WeDTD2-1
Delta Upsilon A5-0need commissioners for the above sports.Schlag2-1
The Squad4-0Facultv / Staff best timeSAE-C1-0
Theta Xi3-1Old BusinessJohn PaneCS Dept11:22CSO0-3SAE-B 3-1IM Field
Other old business
Sigma Nu4-1
MINORSCommissioners, please turn in rosters asTeam StandingsI.M. WATER POLO
ECE Dynamic Rams4-0soon as the sport is completed.X Track37Won and Loss
NP Completions4-0Consider adding new sports: Bridge,CS46
Pika4-0Cribbage and Foosball. Pat Campbell willECE79Maiors
STG4-1construct new Floor Hockey nets.A Team131Phi Kap2-0PiLam4-2The Neighborhood 171Du0-2Sigma-Nu4-1Next meeting is at 12:30pm on Thursday,AFROTC190SAE1-1
October 23 in the Gym Conference Room.B Team206DTD0-0TennisBe there!!!Theta Xi1-1Commissioner. Rob Schlackman, X5518. 
Schedules and standings are on the IM 
Bulletin Board. Please report scores of your 
matches to IM Office. Playoffs have started. 
Please check IM Bulletin Board for playoff 
schedule.
fl--Rec.YoUeybaU 
Commissioner Kevin Neel, nice job! 
Campus Champions:
Major LeagueVBCI 
Intermediate LeagueDudes 
Minor LeaguePiLam
Bowling
Commissioner Vince Carozza, X5494. 
Matches will be at Strand Lanes 
on Saturday mornings. All teams must 
pay half of their bowling fee when they roll 
their final match. League play begins 
October 25. Last call for Bowling
Darts
Commissioner. Paul Pecora, 621-9124. 
League play begins next week. Last call for 
Darts!
Racquetball
Commissioner Rob Schlackman, X5518. 
Games will begin Tuesday, 
October 21. Schedules are out, so please 
check the IM Bulletin Board for match 
schedules.
Team Table Tennis
Commissioner. Rob Koca, X8989. 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in 
the IM Office. Please play all matches on 
time and turn in winning scores to the IM 
Office.
tas
Commisssioner: Stuart Fox, X4259. 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in 
the IM Office. Please turn your match scores 
in to Commissioner Fox or the IM Office.
Water Polo
Commissioner: Hal Levine, X4077. 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in
The Intramural Department would like to 
congratulate this year's Co-Rec Volleyball 
Champions. In the Minors, Pi-Lam 
completed an unbeaten season by beating 
AFROTC in the finals. The Dudes captured 
the Intermediate titel with a hard fought 
battle over the Orange Dots, and the Mjors 
saw VBC-I win a close match over VBC-II. 
The IM Department would also like to 
recognize the work of Commissioner Kevin 
Neel who helped in the success of the CoRec Volleyball season.
In other news, the Intramural Department 
would like to thank the following people for 
their work and dedication in making the start 
of 1986-87 IM school year a success. Mike 
Rielly, Mike Grzywinski, Chris Pfeiffer, Pat 
Jeffries, Paul Masalsky, Gregg Garrison, 
Roy White, Rob Schlackman, Kevin Neel, 
Paul Pecora, Vince Carozza, Vic Banko, Hal 
Levine, Stuart Fox and all those involved in 
help8ing with all IM activities keep up the 
good work!
Official's Club
Anyone interested in joining the Official's 
Club may still do so by contacting Mike at 
x2214 MF between 4:00-5:30. Upcoming 
sports include Soccer, Volleyball, 
Basketball, and Hockey. All interested 
students should call.
IM Cross Country Meet 19&6
Commissioner Paul Pecora, 621-9124 
Meet was held Thursday, Oct 9th at Flag 
Staff Hill 
New Record of runners 59!
Results listed cm IM Bulletin Board
a. 1st Place - Track X
b. 2nd Place - CS
c. 3rd Place - ECE
Overall
Place Name Team Time
1 Dean Danowski X-Track 10:41
2 Peter Highnam CS 10:51
3 Todd Cope The Neigboorhood 10:58
In typical Pittsburgh fall weather, the IM 
Cross Country meet was held in Schenley 
Park. Overall Champion Dean Danowski had 
an excellent winning time of 10:41 over the 
1.9 mile course, as the X-Track team 
members pulled out a narrow victory over 
the CS Dept (37-46). Place and times for all 
participants will be posted on IM Bulletin 
Board outside the IM office. Congratulations 
to all for making this the biggest IM XCountry Meet ever with 59 people running.
Touyh FQQtfraU
Won and Lost
Minors 
AFROTC 
Kappa Sigma 
En
Mutant Eels
FACULTY AND STAFF 
Intramurals Tennis
Maior League-Lendel Division 
Team A 
B 
C 
D
1-0
1-2
0-1
1-0
Majors
ATO
Beta
Crunch Bunch 
Kappa Sig 
Pika 
Supa
intermediate "K 
Delta Upsilon A 
Phi Kap 
Crabs
Supa Tigers 
CIA-agents 
SAE-B 
Titans
Meat Mansion
Intermediate B 
Cmappers 
IC Slammers 
Boys of Summer 
Theta Xi 
Air Scobell 
GSIA 1st Yrs. 
The Squad
Minors "A" 
Swamp Vermin 
Dining Service 
NP Completions 
AFROTC 
AEPI
Fancy Spuds
1-0 
0-1 
0-1 
1-0
Division
3-1 
1-2 
2-1 
0-3
4-0 
0-3
4-0
2-4 
2-2 
0-4 
2-2
3-0 
2-2 
2-3
0-3
3-3
14
3-1
2-3
3-1
4-0
0-3
2-3 
5-0
1-2
3-1 
1-4
Team#l
Team#2
Team#3
Team#4
Team#5
2-0
1-2
2-1
0-2
1-1
Read
The Tartan
Sports
Section.
For
The
Whole
Story.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 23The TartanOctober 21, 1986
CMU Soccer Team in Key Stretch Drive
Bv PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Soccer Tartans moved to an impressive 
74-1 record this week with a 1-0 shutout 
win over Mt. Union College. The Tartans 
have been struggling lately, but key games 
against Marietta College and Grove City 
College have helped to jell the team into a 
powerful unit.
The Tartans went into last week's action at 
6-3-1, losing a tough 1-0 battle to Grove 
City, after overpowei ng Marietta College 5- 
0. Coming into the game against Mt. 
Union, the Tartans knew what they had to do 
the rest of the season. "We need to win the 
rest of our games to have a shot at the 
NCAA tournament," explained Tartan head 
coach Nick Gaudioso, "There are 48 teams in 
our division, and only four will go. The loss 
to Grove City really hurt us; it was a big 
upset.
Carnegie Mellon ended their week on a 
down note, dropping a 4-1 decision at Tech 
Field to the PAC-rival Bethany Bisons on
Sunday.
Kevin Jung had the only goal, an 
unassisted score, for the Tartans. It came in 
the second half, with Carnegie Mellon 
already down 2-0. The Bisons, however, held 
the Tartans scoreless the rest of the way, and 
added another pair of goals to secure the 
victory.
Against Mt. Union, the Tartans played 
very well all around, as the lone goal in the 
game came with 20 seconds left in the first 
half. Junior Kevin Jung took a free kick 
from 25 yards out and beat the Mt. Union 
goal tender to give the Tartans all the scoring 
they needed. For Jung, it was his 6th goal 
of the year to bring his total points on the 
year to 18, leading all Carnegie Mellon 
scorers. Following a close second is the 
Tartans' Doug Anderson, who has 6 goals
and 4 assists for sixteen points thus far this 
year.
The Tartan defense and midfielders played 
their best game of the year. "The midfielders 
played their best technically oriented game 
so far," explained Gaudioso. One of the big 
reasons for the better orientation in the 
midfield was the movement of Kevin Jung 
to center midfielder. He had been playing 
outside midfielder all year, as he did last 
year. "We found out that Kevin was in the 
wrong place all year," said Guadiosso after 
the game. Kevin also has fully recovered 
from a hip pointer injury which kept him in 
check for two weeks.
Carnegie Mellon has a lot of young faces 
this year, as five freshmen have starting 
positions. The most evident of all the 
young Tartans is freshman goaltender Reed 
Thiel, who has been quite impressive this 
year. He has played in 10 games, in which 
the Tartans are 7-2-1. Thiel has also 
compiled an impressive 0.71 goals against 
average, allowing a mere 7 goals in his 10 
contests, and has recorded five shutouts thus 
far.
The Tartans are currently 1-2-1 in 
President's Athletic Conference play, and 
have a game against Washington and 
Jefferson College left before the PAC season 
comes to a close. The Tartans have an 
outside shot at winning the PAC this year, 
but they will need other teams to knock each 
other out of contention. The pressure is 
now on the Tartans, and they will have to 
meet the task if they hope to be a part of 
this year's post-season action.
Next Soccer Home Game 
October 28 at 3:30 pm 
Versus Pitt
Doug Anderson zeroes in on the ball
CAPRI PIZZA
3415 Forbes Avenue (near Magee Hospital)  Oakland
CALL US TODAY 681-2202
OPEN 
SUNDAY thru WEDNESDAY OPEN TILL 2 AM 
THURSDAY, FRIDAY & SATURDAY OPEN TILL 3 AM #
We Deliver/Limited AreoPIZZA
JUNIOR
SMALL
MEDIUM
CUTS
4
6

PLAIN CHEESI 
2.50 
3.2S 
4.00
LARGi PIZZA - SII SPiCIAl ?
X.LARGE 12 5.50
TOPPINGS
oLtllt'sLiwf, AwiMvfes, Mack 'rma
Nfpirwi. MashrMin, kaa Peffen, litw Own,
PROVOLONE STICKS..........................1.29
COO ROLLS...............................................75*
FRENCH PRIES..........................................7S
Mf AMD MUSHROOMS.....................1.2S
WE SERVE
IIQUOR, BIER, & WINE
(6 Pocks to Go)
HOAGIES
WHOLE HALF
ITALIA*....................3.40 1.95
SALAMI.......................3.40 1.95CAPICOUO...............3.40 1.95
HAM A CHEESE..........3.40 1.95STEAK...............................3.60 1.99HOT SAUS AGE...............3.60 1.99MUSHROOM STEAK. . 3.75 1.99FISH HOAGIE..................3.75 1.99
SALADS
FRESH TOSSED SALAD............................1.9
FRESH GREEK SALAD..............................2.1
CALL FOR TAKE OUT 681-2202 
FAST, FRIENDLY DELIVERY
\\
Vs!A,

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Football Team Earns Homecoming Triumph
Tartans Top 
Terriers
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Sports Editor
Sterling performances by unexpected 
heroes led the football Tartans to a 24-14 
victory over the previously undefeated 
Hiram Terriers two weeks ago.
Chris Hansen, subbing for ailing 
fullback Anthony Collaros, led the Tartan 
ground attack with a pair of touchdowns 
92 rushing yards. Freshman quarterback 
Dean Garofola, the replacement for Mike 
Hensel, passed for 108 yards, over double 
his previous week's total.
The defense also excelled, surrendering 
only fourteen points to an Terrier offense 
who's average of 364 yards per game led 
the PAC. Hiram running back Bobby 
Starks, the third rated rusher in the 
conference, was held to a bare 33 yards. 
The potent Hiram passing combination of 
Ron Devorksy to Greg Gorcica was also 
crimped by the Tartan vise.
Defensive co-captian Ron Orie, who 
leads the team in tackles with 34, recorded 
a key interception in the first quarter, 
stopping a Hiram drive on the Tartan 38.
Another pleasant surprise for Rich 
Lackners Tartans was the punting of 
Laszlo Buda. He averaged 38.5 yards on 
his six punts, including a long boot of 56 
yards and managed to place a pair of his 
punts inside the Terrier ten yard line.
Carnegie Mellon controlled the game 
from the beginning, ammassing a 14-0 
lead in the first quarter.
The Tartans first score came on their 
opening posession. Besides a 13 yard pass 
to Bill Heiser, playing for the injured Tim 
Denmeade, and Garafola's 25 yard keeper, 
the drive was the typical CMU grind-itout ground attack.
The key play in Carnegie Mellon's next 
drive was a 14 yard pass to Roy Teresky, 
which coupled with a 15 yard facemask 
penalty on the Terriers moved the Tartans 
to the Hiram 35. A dodging, weaving 
Mike Minjock run made the score 14-0.
With their running attack limited by the 
Tartan defense, Hiram forsook their 
usually balanced offense for an almost 
totally passing oriented attack.
In fact, it was an unusual pass that gave 
the Ohioans their second touchdown. On 1- 
10 at the CMU 40 yard line, Quarterback 
Ron Devorksky connected down the 
sideline to receiver Greg Gorcica. Afther 
the reception, Gorcica lateralled to Bobby 
Starks, who ran in for the score.
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellons 14-0 football victory 
over Thiel College on Homecoming 
Saturday was not the game many expected
to see.
A shutout of the Tomcats was not an 
unexpected event, given that Thiel had 
scored a bare 15 points in their four 
previous games this season.
But the Tartans were expected to rack up 
more than fourteen points, especially 
against a team they trounced 48-3 last year, 
a team that is not greatly improved this 
year.
One reason is injuries. Mike Hensel 
played a big part of the victory last year, 
but he is still disabled. Also still out is 
fullback Anthony Collaros, although he is 
being ably replaced by junior Chris 
Hansen.
In addition, Lackner chose to not play 
some of those members of his squad who 
were listed as questionable. This group 
included starting guard David Merrigan, free 
safety Rob Arthur, and halfback Tim 
Denmeade, who was out last week with a 
pulled hamstring. Denmeade did play this 
week, but only briefly.
"I was satisfied with the way we played, 
considering we kep a lot of people out of 
the game," commented head coach Rich 
Lackner.
The offense moved the ball well versus 
Theil, but were unable to come up with 
several big plays Jim Kelly missed a 27- 
yard field goal attempt after a seventeenplay Camegie-Mellon drive from their own
21 yard line. And in the fourth quarter, after 
Mike Danziak recovered a fumble at the 
Tomcat 25, Quarterback Dean Garofola and 
tight end Tim Kelly failed to connect twice 
in search of the score.
Despite the missed opportunits, Carnegie 
Mellon dominated the game offensively.
The Tartans travelled 91 yards on their 
first scoring drive. A 24-yard Garofola pass 
to Tim Denmeade moved Carnegie Mellon 
close to the fifty yard line. But an illegal 
procedure call on the next play nullified 
much of that gain. Chris Hansen, who 
gained 43 yards on the day, dug the Tartans 
out of their 2nd and 15 hole with a 
seventeen yard run, helped by good blocks 
from Tim Kelly and receiver Roy Teresky.
QB Garofola brought the Tartans deep 
into Tomcat territory with a pair of long 
keepers. In fact, he was forced out of 
bounds a foot short of the goal line, on a 
run that some thought brought CMU into 
the end zone.
The question of whether he made it or not 
was rendered moot. Dean carried the ball 
once more for the touchdown. Garafola eded
Swim Coach Changes
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
A week ago Friday, swimming Head 
Coach Donna Morosky called a team 
meeting. This was not unusual, since 
practice was starting the followng 
Wednesday; however, what she said to the 
team was not expected. It was there that 
she announced that she was being replaced 
by Jim Perkins as coach.
Earlier this year, Mrs. Morosky had been 
appointed director of health enhancement at 
Carnegie Mellon and was made aware that a 
search would be made to replace her as 
coach of swimming and women's cross
country. Her reaction at the time was, 
"Look, but don't look too hard." An ad 
was placed in the NCAA News and several
candidates were interviewed. Who actually 
made the decision to replace Morosky is 
unclear. Athletic Director Jim Banner 
claimed the decision to change coaches was 
made by Dean of Student Affairs Brad 
Walters who wanted Mrs. Morosky at her 
new post full-time. However, Morosky 
disagreed saying, "It was a joint decision 
between myself and Jim Banner, more 
Banner's decision."
According to Banner, Morosky was only 
to be replaced if someone as good as her 
was found. The search was kept quiet for 
several reasons. Banner said, "We didn't 
talk about it because we werent certain we 
could find a replacement." Morosky 
concurred, "I asked that most of it be kept
Continued on Page 18 , ,
QB Dean Garafola tries in vain for the TD,
the day with 69 yards on the ground.
Carnegie Mellon created an opportunity 
for themselves at the start of their next 
scoring drive. Tomcat punter Tim 
Messersmith was under intense pressure 
from a horde of advancing Tartans, led by 
defensive tackle Brian Roessler, and barely 
got the punt off. The punt, which traveled 
a grand total of six yards, gave the Tartans 
the ball on the Thiel 44.
Carnegie Mellon advanced to the Tomcat
6, but were slapped with a holding penalty, 
one of 10 fines incurred by the Tartans in 
the game.
On second and sixteen, Garofola threw 
into heavy coverage for Roy Teresky in the 
end zone. Thiel defender Morris Hill 
appeared to come down with the inter
ception, but it sailed through his hands into 
Teresky's arms for the touchdown. On the 
day, Teresky had three catches for 35 yards.
Photo by Andy Gillespie
He scored on the next play.
Bill Kerr, given a starting role at 
defensive tackle due to the injury of Ken 
Harris. He responded with a game 
highlighted by two sucessive sacks of Thiel 
quarterback Jim Fucci late in the third 
quarter. His defensive play against the 
Tomcats earned him WRCT Player of the 
Game honors.
The defense also did well putting pressure 
on punter Tim Messersmith, almost 
blocking several punts 
NotesThis is the first time in five years 
that Carnegie Mellon has scored less that 
40 points versus the Tomcats...Thiel has 
not defeated the Tartans since 1975, 
although the two teams did tie 6-6 in 
1981... Marc Muster, a senior offensive 
tackle, was named a captian to replace the 
injured Mike HenseL.Halfback Gary 
Marchionna has left the team. Brian 
Kirkendall wore his #21 last game.
Scoreboard
Football
Carnegie Mellon 24 
Hiram College 14
Carnegie Mellon 14 
Thiel College 0
Soccer
Grove City 1 
Carnegie Mellon 0
Carnegie Mellon 1 
Mt.Union College 0
Bethany College 4 
Carnegie Mellon 1
Women's Tennis 
(PAC Tournament) 
Carnegie Mellon 18 
Grove City 17 
John Carroll 17 
Hiram 4 
Bethany 0 
Thiel 0
Women's Volleyball 
Carnegie Mellon 1 
Hiram College 3
Carnegie Mellon 0 
Grove City 3
Carnegie Mellon 0 
Bethany College 2
Carnegie Mellon 2 
LaRoche College 0
Field Hockey
Carnegie Mellon 1 
Hiram College 2
Carnegie Mellon l 
Bethany College 7
Carnegie Mellon 3 
W&J 0

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Comics
Classifieds
Events
Carnegie Mellons Finest Filmmaker
Pittsburgh Filmmakers to 
sponsor George A. Romero film fest
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
One of the foremost directors of horror 
movies and successful Carnegie Mellon 
Alumnus, George A. Romero will be giving 
a free lecture on his films next Monday. The 
talk will be held at the Fulton Theatre on 
Sixth Avenue, downtown. In addition to the 
lecture there will screenings of all of Ro
mero's films as well as workshops given by 
his co-workers.
Workshops and screenings will be held at 
the Fulton or the Pittsburgh Filmmakers 
Screening Room in Oakland. The Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers are sponsoring the festival.
Romero, a graduate of the College of Fine 
Arts in 1961, has made ten feature films 
since 1968. Making his films in the Pitts
burgh area, he has become Pittsburghs 
foremost filmmaker.
Seven years after graduating, he made his 
first major feature, Night of the Living 
Dead, which recieved widespread critical ac
claim. Filmed in nearby Butler, the film 
redefined the horror film genre and opened 
the door for the modem horror movie. The 
film is now included in the permanent co
llection of Museum of Modem Art in New 
York.
After Night, he founded the Pittsburgh 
based production company, Laurel Entertain
ment in 1974. Romero still remains part 
owner, along with co-founder Richard Rubenstien, and acts as executive producer of Tales 
of the Dark Side.
The second major success came in 1977, 
when Romero directed Martin, a modern-day 
version of the vampire genre. Newsweek 
critic Jack Kroll commented: Romero's com
bination of wit and horror is the best since 
Hitchcock.
Following Martin, which was filmed in 
Braddock and the downtown area, he made 
Dawn of the Dead. The sequel was filmed in 
the Monroeville Mall. Last year he finished 
the third episode, Day of the Dead.
Romero also made one film with author, 
Steven King on Creepshow. A collection of 
short stories, a few scenes were shot right on 
campus.
Romero splits his time between his home 
here and in Sanibel, Florida and is currently 
working on a remake of War of the Worlds 
for Paramount Pictures.
With ten horror films to his credit, George Romero is one of 
todays finest and most sought after directors
A scene from Dawn of the Dead shot on location at Monroeville Mall A scene from Creepshow shot on Carnegie Mellon's campus
\ Friday, October 24
| Pittsburgh Filmmakers Screening room 
| 205 Oakland Avenue, Oakland 
| Sports Documentaries (1973-74),
 Amusement Park (1975) and Document 
j of the Dead (1979)
 A colletion of profiles of pro-sports
 figures, made by Romero in 1973^74 for 
I broadcast on network television; a 
| documentaty on problems of the elderly, 
| made for the Lutheran Society in 1975;
| and a documentary by Roy Frumkes on 
 the making of Dawn of the dead.
8:00 & 10:00pm
General admission $3. Members and 
students of Pittsburgh Filmmakers,
senior citizens and children under twelve 
$2.00.
Saturday, October 25
Pittsburgh Filmmakers Screening Room 
205 Oakland Avenue, Oakland 
The Crazies (1973)
A government plane carrying biological 
weapons crashes near a small Pennsylvania 
town. The virus infect the water supply and 
the town begins to go mad. Then the army 
arrives...
8:00 & 10:00pm
Sunday,October 26
Pittsburgh Filmmakers Screening Room
205 Oakland Avenue, Oakland
The American Nightmare: The Sociology of
Horror
Why do you like to be scared? This is just 
one of the questions to be addressed by a 
panel including Bill Judson, curator of film 
and video, Carnegie Museum of Art; Dana 
Polen, Associate professor of film and 
English, University of Pittsburgh; and 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers' Gary Kaboly 
(program director. Filmmakers at the Fulton) 
and Jan McMannis (program director. 
Screening Room).
6:00 - 7:30pm 
The Crazies (1973)
8:00pm
Monday, October 27
Filmmakers at the Fulton Theatre i
101 Sixth Street, Downtown Pittsburgh <
From Conception to Completion: A 
workshop with George A. Romero 
George Romero will discuss the making * 
of a Romero Film from prethrough post I 
production in a presentation that will I 
features clips from selected works, special | 
guests include costume designer Barbara | 
Anderson and set designer Cletus | 
Anderson, both of Carnegie Mellon | 
University; and film editor Pasquale | 
Buba.
7:00pm
Free Admission 1

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanOctober 21, 1986
something borrowed...
Pittsburgh Ballet:
Something old,
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief.While the great classics of ballet are perrenial favorites among theater-goers because of their masterful scores and polished choreography, seeing the world premier of a new contemporary work offers its own variety of charm and excitement. The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre is quickly gaining renown for its broad repertoire containing important classics as well as contemporary works by premier choreographers.The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre's seventeenth season will be an eclectic mix of the old and the very newest. The company will perform classics like Giselle, The Nutcracker and 
Coppelia, as well as three works by choreographer George Balanchine. PBT has also added six new works to its repertoire for the upcoming season. Four of these will be performed as Pittsburgh premieres, two as world premieres.Both Eau de Vie and In the Manner of 
Lautrec are new works which were commissioned exclusively for the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre and will premier with this company. Last spring, PBT presented three world premieres. The company was the recepient of a $30,000 grant from the National Choreography Project, which sponsored Israeli choreographer Ohad Naharin to compose the ballet: Tabula Rasa, to music of the same name, by Russian composer Arvo Part.Although it is a classical company, Patricia Wilde, Artistic Director for PBT, has a strong interest in enriching and expanding the repertoire of the company with newly commissioned works, as well as works by established contemporary choreographers.PBT is ranked among the top ten companies in the country. Patricia Wilde has been instrumental in raising the organization to its current, enviably high status. Wilde is one of America's foremost classical ballerinas. Following her performing career with
something new,
the New York City Ballet, she served as director of the Harkness School of Ballet, Ballet Mistress for the American Ballet Theatre, and Director of the American Ballet Theatre School.The seventeenth season brings some key personnel additions to the company. This season, Miguel Campaneria returns to PBT as a principal dancer. Tamar Rachel le, a veteran dancer of PBT, will also dance as a principal for the company this season.Also joining the Pittsburgh Ballet are German Zamuel and wife Valentina Moukhanova as Principal Ballet Teacher and Ballet Instructor, respectively. Zamuel is a renowned principal dancer, choreographer, and pedagogue from Leningrad's State Academic Theatre of Opera and Ballet. Moukhanova was the prima ballerina with the State Academic Theatre of Opera and Ballet in Leningrad, and Guest Artist with the Kirov State Ballet Theatre.Rick McCullough and Wife Susan also join the company as Ballet Master and Director of the PBT school, respectively.The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre begins its 1986-87 season on Thursday, with a mixed repertoire performance of three works: 
Allegro Brillante, Rodeo and Mercuric 
Tidings. Allegro Brillante is a Balanchine ballet performed to the single movement of Tchaikovsky's unfinished Third piano concerto. The dance patterns in this ballet are vivid and intricate, requiring perfect timing in the implementation.
Rodeo is choreographer Agnedsde Mille's tribute to the American west. De Mille is one of America's most famous choreographers. Not only has she choreographed for the ballet theatre, but she has also choreographed such works as Oklahoma! and Carousel for the Broadway stage. The squareand folkdancing elements of Rodeo catch the energy of Aaron Copland's lively score.
The third ballet of PBT's opening performance is Paul Taylor's Mercuric 
Tidings. The Pittsburgh company is only the second to perform this ballet. It was premiered by Paul Taylor's own company in New York in April of 1982 and enjoyed enormous critical success. The ballet is set to Schubert's Symphony No.l and 2. The relentless quickness of the first and third movements of this piece make this a very demanding and difficult work. Mercuric 
Tidings is a fastmoving, energetic piece of choreography, danced in luminescent red costumes and featuring intricate, collision-course patterns as the dancers move across the stage. It is an impressive exhibition of technical style.
Tickets are still available for the Thursday, 
Friday, and Saturday evening performances, 
as well as the Sunday matinee. Subscrip
tions for the PBT season are available for as 
low as $15 for three performances. For ticket 
and subscription information, call the 
Pittsburgh Ballet at 281-0360.
PARTY !
October 2/fT"
NCarn Se8-30/ - 1:30,
Sid bo Ball room
J?oo/n To Move
Food, Beer, Wine?
missior\
r.r-M vf A 1  
) Re^uirta
f. "ed
b*J
SU>t
/
Six Shows - Six Weeks 
Week # 5: 
./N'o/T^\0ct. 20-22
/ - \
LA RONDE
Free Admission 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday
8:30 8:30 5 & 8:30

---------------------------------------------------

Page D3The TartanOctober 21, 1986
Symphony audience visibly dissatisfied with new work
Bv SUZANNE SCHELKOPF AND 
NADINE FLYNN
Special to the Tartan
On Friday evening, October 17th, at 8:30 
pM. , the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
presented its sixth set of its Subscription 
Concerts, with Adam Fischer conducting. 
The program consisted of works by Bartk, 
Kodaly, and a featured subscription-series 
premiere of Berio's Concerto for Two Piano 
and Orchestra, with soloists Katia and Marielle Labeque. Although the program contain
ed some impressive moments, the overall 
effect was disappointing. Furthermore, the 
lack of continuity of the program resulted in 
a restless and unattentive audience.
Bartok's The Miraculous Mandarin Suite 
opened the program. The opening was in
tensified by the abrupt, energetic conducting 
of Adam Fischer, as well as the extreme 
dynamic contrasts executed by the various 
soloists in the orchestra. The almost in
audible level in which the clarinet solo 
begins, and later the english horn, was 
contrasted drastically by the gallant brass and 
defiant percussion entrances.
The mood changed and the clarinet modified 
his original solo with a jazz-like nature, in
corporating trills and a nervous accelerando. 
This was calmed by the tranquil oboe solo 
which passed to the english horn and bas
soon. The principal woodwind and strings 
should be commended for their precise and 
expressive playing.
After a generous amount of applause, the 
audience grew restless waiting for the exten
sive rearrangement of the stage for the Berio 
piece (Berio scored the pianos to be 9 meters 
from each side of the podium). This con
tributed to the lack of continuity in the 
program. The appearance of the two young, 
attractive soloists on stage gained the atten
tion of the previously disinterested audience. 
Unfortunately, the piece neglected to take
advantage of the virtuostic capabilities of the 
performers. Thus, the interest that had been 
regained, was quickly lost shortly after the 
piece began.
The contemporary Concerto for Two 
Pianos and Orchestra was a 25-minute state 
of cacophony. Luciano Berio, the composer 
of the piece, aimed to create the impression 
of two different pieces of music performed 
simultaneously. Theoretically, this attempt 
may seem noble and commendable, but in 
practice, we fail to see it produced. Instead, 
we become disenchanted with the substance 
after listening to the two pianists tremolo 
over the same chords for 10 minutes.
Adam Fischer, the conductor for the night, 
surprised us in this piece. In contrast to the 
Bartk, where we sense he has total control 
over the orchestra through his definite down
beat conducting style, we see him grovelling 
at the pages of the score in the Berio, desper
ately trying to keep the orchestra united. As 
if suddenly breaking into a cold sweat at the 
most traumatic section of the piece, Fischer 
nervously shook his head 'no' toward a 
performer entering incorrectly.
In addition, the physical interpretation of 
the soloists was overly dramatic and ex
tremely distracting. The audience soon be
came amused by the 'hot seat' playing, 
jumping up as if the seat was electrified. 
Furthermore, the clarinetist should be con
gratulated for entering and executing his solo 
correctly, if in fact he did, we couldn't tell 
amongst the ridiculous background chaos.
The concentration level of the audience at 
this point was nill, and their focal points 
drifted from a random sneeze to an adver
tisement in the program to the elaborate 
ornamentation in Heinz Hall.
Luckily for Berio, Pittsburgh Subscribers 
are generally very receptive to contemporary 
composers and their works; however, in this 
case, we question why!
After intermission and with only three 
quarters of the audience present, two Kodaly 
pieces were performed.
It was a relief to hear harmonies and 
musical organization again. The majestic 
horn solo and flawless oboe solo soothed our 
previously agitated ears. We were calmed by 
the pleasurable, pastorale tunes of Zoltn
Kodaly's Dance of Galanta and later, Hary 
Janos Suite.
Once again, we notice Adam Fischer 
having fun' with this piece, conducting very 
comfortably through difficult tempo changes 
from lento to allegro molto vivace. What a 
relief!
The final work, Kodaly's Hary Janos Suite, 
proved to be a disappointment, due to the 
overpowering percussion, inaccurate off-beat 
lines, fading horn solos, and the trumpet 
intonation problems. Fortunately, the viola 
solo set an impressive level for the remain
der of the piece. This was further heightened 
by the difficult oboe and cimbalom solo, 
which was executed superbly.
The strings should be commended also for 
their consistently solid and precise perform
ance throughout the concert.
The program choices of the second half 
added to the dissatisfaction already present. 
The attention of the audience strayed notice
ably, and indifferent response exemplified 
this. It was apparent that the audience left 
with an overall feeling of disappointment.
Russian violinist to open Y-concert season
PITTSBURGH: Violinist Mark Peskanov, who was bom in the 
Soviet Union and has lived in the United States since 1973, will 
inaugurate the 61st season of the Jewish Community Center's Y 
Music Society with a recital on Wednesday, October 22 at 8:00 
pm. The concert will take place in Oakland at the Morris Kauf
mann Auditorium, 315 S. Bellefield Ave.
Pianist Rita Solan will join Peskanov in a program featuring 
sonatas in D major by Beethoven, f minor by Prokofiev and B 
flat Major by Mozart. Concluding the recital will be the tuneful 
and playful Carmen Fantasy by de Sarasate.
Bom in 1958, Peskanov studied in Odessa at the school that 
nurtured Nathan Milstein and David Oistrach. Later he worked 
with Perlman's teacher Dorthy De Lay at Juilliard. In 1985, he
received the Avery Fishcher Career Grant and the Isaac Stem_____________________2__________________________________
Award. After his New York Debut, the New York Times reported, 
"Mr. Peskanov has it all - technique, temperament and taste."
In addition to Peskanov, the Y Series features clarinetist Richard 
Stoltzman an pianist Richard Good, Sunday, November 23; 
violinist Jennifer Wion, Sunday, December 14; pianist Andras 
Schiff, Tuesday, February 17; soprano Benita Valente, Sunday, 
March 8; flutist James Galway and classical guitarist Kazuhito 
Yamashita, Saturday, March 28; and pianist Cecile Licad, 
Wednesday, May 13.
Season subscription and single ticket information is available by 
calling the Y music Society at 521-8099. Student subscription 
rates are a low $45. There are no student discounts for individual 
concerts.
SZKCHILYN
COllRMKT
Szechuan Gourmet ranks with 
best for Asian eating
WRCT Presents a two-part special:
"The Secret Wars 
of the CIA"
John Stockwell
Highest level CIA official ever to "go public"
Stockwell exposes the CIA's covert operations around the globe, and focuses on CIA operations in Central America, CIA manipulation of the press, and the role of nuclear weapons.
Sunday, October 26, 2:00 pm Sunday, November 2, 2:00 pm
Funded by Student Activities fee
The on/y Oriental Restaurant rated by Robert 
M. Bianco of the Pittsburgh Press in the TOP 
TEN BEST RESTAURANTS reviewed in 1985. 
If you are willing to be adventurous, dinner 
here is as close as you can get locally to a New 
York Chinatown mea/.
Celebrate The Year of the Tiger with a special 
Banquet of a traditional Chinese meal.
Make Your Reservations Now
709 Btlltfort St. 
Shadysifa 
giM Msck from Walsst St.)
 Lunch t Dinner  Take-Out  Banquets  Cocktails
683-1763
fM mry ay

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanOctober 21, 1986
PLAN HOLIDAY 
TRAVEL
ARRANGEMENTS NOW 
TO AVOID 
DISAPPOINTMENT!
CMU DIRECT 
FORBES EXT. 2999
TRAVEL o,V521-7300
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Comedy Critic
You'd remember Harry Anderson if you 
ever saw him. He's tall and thin with light 
brown hair, usually wears glasses with no 
glass and hyperactive ties. Anderson indeed 
seems to have stepped right off the midway 
of a 1940's carnival. You remember, the 
character with the shifty eyes, the battered 
fedora, and the "trust me" grin? If he ever 
offers to show you a card trick, that's the 
time to hold on to your wallet and back off. 
If he weren't such a successful comedian and 
actor, he'd be out on the streets flimflamming the suckers.
If you've ever seen Harry Anderson on 
Saturday Night Live, Late Night with David 
Letterman, Evening at the Improv, or any 
other of the many television shows on 
which he has appeared, then you've probably 
seen at least one of the tricks he performed at 
the Holiday House on October 12th. He 
only performed about four or five tricks, but 
he stretched them out with jokes and stories 
of carnival life.
In the course of one trick, Anderson took 
two $5 bills from semi-willing audience 
members, tore the money up, burned them, 
restored them, and returned them to their 
rightful owners. He then marvelled at the
fact that the people did not hesitate to give 
him their money again when he wanted to 
continue the trick. "I love America," he said 
of their trust. "I do all this stuff to them and 
they're still waving their money in the air."
He also performed his classic "Geek" trick, 
which began with a lengthy, scene-setting 
monologue in which he defined "Geek" in 
the old carnival sense. The Geek in the side
show tent was the Wild Thing of Borneo 
type who pretended to be insane by doing 
crazy things like eating glass and biting the 
heads off of live chickens.
Anderson specializes in Geek, despite the 
fact that he appears to be relatively normal. 
And there on the Holiday House stage, Harry 
Anderson pierced his arm with a hatpin. 
Somehow this was a bit much for the 
upright, sequined Holiday House audience, 
and the reaction was less than enthusiastic 
when the red-colored com syrup began to 
flow. He assured them that it wasn't real as 
he always does when he performs this trick; 
"For the money I'm getting, I wouldn't put a 
needle through my arm, no sir!" The crowd 
laughed, albeit nervously.
When he had cleaned up the fake blood and 
shown that there were no puncture wounds 
in his skin, Anderson admitted that now that 
he was doing the TV show Night Court,
he had to tone down his act because he was 
now attracting younger children. He offered 
to atone for the hatpin trick by performing a 
rabbit trick. Then he stuck the needle 
through the head of a stuffed bunny. That's 
Geek.
Anderson took great care in setting moods 
for the show. He entered and exited to the 
tune of "In the Mood." When describing a 
carnival that had been blown over in a 
storm, he let down his "Wild Thing of 
Borneo" poster comer by comer.
And he told a long, engaging story about 
growing up in the streets of Chicago, 
learning tricks and arts like Chapography 
from an old man named Morris; "When I
was little, I thought Morris knew everthing 
you ever needed to know in life." He then 
showed all the hats he had learned to make 
from one little ring of black felt, a 
"chapographic ring." Anderson made the dis
play of chapography a touching experience.
Anderson also described the "religious 
experience" of seeing his first card trick. He 
performed it for us, using giant cards so we 
could get the perspective he had had as a 
child.
Naturally the show was a success, and 
everyone left the Holiday House entirely 
entertained, nostalgic, mystified, and perhaps 
just a little grossed out.
Indian Art on display
PITTSBURGH: The Master Weavers," an 
exhibition of 100 hand-made textiles from 
India, opens October 14, 1986 at the Uni
versity Art Gallery, University of Pitts
burgh, at the Henry Clay Frick Fine Arts 
Museum.
The exhibition, which will travel for two 
years under auspices of the Smithsonian 
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service 
(SITES), was organized by the Development
Commission for Handlooms, Government of 
India.
The hand-made textiles represent a range 
from simple, delicate weaving to very com
plex and detailed designs and styles. The 
pieces will be arranged according to their vari
ous weaving techniques. These traditional 
categories include two forms. One is the 
"ikat," a yam-resist technique that tie-dyes 
the warp and/or weft to create a "pro
grammed" pattern in the finished fabric; 
some examples of this direct techniques can 
be seen in the "Patola Scarf' and the 
"Orissan Ikat Spread." The other type are 
"saris," the well known garments worn by 
Hindu women which are composed of un
stitched lengths of fabric that drape around 
the body to form a main garment. Saris can 
represent many expressions of the individual, 
serve many purposes and, by altered draping
PICKUP
A PARTY
Flim-flam extraordinaire Harry Anderson cons Pittsburgh once again
methods they can become a simple yet 
involved textile. Also included are examples 
of brocades with cotton, silk, and mixed 
threads as the weft or warp woven produces 
raised designs; "zari-brocades," fabrics with 
gold and silver threads as the weft or warp is 
woven to form flittering raised ornamen
tation; and "bandhej," a form of tie-resist and 
wrap-resist dyeing.
Each piece is clear evidence of exquisite art 
structured and connected to the Indian cul
ture. These have been described as "message 
pieces" for those who view and find appreci
ation in the relationship between history and 
the art.
The exhibition was originally organized for 
the Festival of India in Great Britain and is 
now a part of the Festival of India in the 
United States. It is a result of a concerted 
effort by the Indian government to improve 
and maintain the traditional skills and quality 
of Indian textiles. There was a concern that 
the tradition of Indian textiles was being 
weakened by the rise of the power-loom and 
mass-production in recent decades. The per
severance of this important economic source, 
which in income is second only to agri
culture, led the Indian government to search 
out, support, and document its master "handloom" weavers in India; they produce more 
that 310 million meters of cloth a year. 
With a population of 700 million, the Indian 
government realized that there was a definite 
place for both mass-produced and hand wo
ven textiles.
THIS BUD S
X-C O-NT
BUOWEISER*KING Of BEERSANHEUSER BUSCM. INC "ST LOUIS

---------------------------------------------------

Page D5The TartanOctober 21, 1986
joe Bob responds to public outcry against his video reviews
gy JOE BOB BRIGGS
Drive-In Movie Critic 
(first page missing)
and then she uses her pelvis to conjugate some Iranian verbs. Available on 
Thunder Thighs Video for $29.95, unless 
you're really fat and you need to get "Stop 
Eating or Ill Kill You Very Slowly," for 
just $24.95 from Teamsters Pension Fund 
Video Entertainment.
The next 36-hour viewing segment was 
devoted to made-for-video-horror-moviescause-we're-too-cheap-to-buy-any-ads-and-my 
-girlfriend-wants-to-be-in-it-anyhowPick-ofthe-week in this category is...
"Breeders": Nobody can figure out why a 
2iant plastic one-eyed lizard in a rubber suit 
is raping virgins in New York City until a 
cop and a bimbo doctor discover that 
EVERY VICTIM IS COVERED WITH A 
STRANGE EERIE UNKNOWN SUB
STANCE. They take it to the lab and find 
out  no, it can't be! no! not that!  It's 
BRICK dust. It's the EXACT same kind of 
brick dust they used 200 years ago to build 
Manhattan "but they ran out of it." That can 
mean only one thing: Giant alien
grasshoppers are living underneath the 
subways, boiling virgins in larva love juice, 
then bustin their bodies open to create 
masters of the universe. As one of the actors 
says: "What happened is an alien life force 
drifted to earth on a spore. They can't figure 
it all out yet." Nekkid aerobics. 41 breasts. 
Five lizard rapes. Nine bodies. Special Video 
Drive-In Academy Award nominations to 
Tim Kincaid, the writer/director, for having 
the imagination to conceive of virgins in 
New York City. Two stars.
If you been wonderin where all the Attackof-the-Stupid-White-People flicks went, you 
HAVEN'T BEEN RUNNIN THOSE VCRS 
ENOUGH or you would of found...
"Malibu Bikini Shop": Actually released in 
GROWN-UP MOVIE HOUSES for about 
five minutes, this is one of the best movies 
about brain-damaged body parts with tans, 
twitching on the beach, since "Hardbodies." 
The first hour is bikini crotch shots, 
followed by bikini boob shots, followed by 
some three-minute flashing-flopper Southern 
California "we can't sing but we made a 
video" beach music, followed by three hot 
tub scenes featuring 34 actresses who 
constantly use the word "party" as a verb. In 
the big final sequence, the world as we know 
it is saved by the sewing together of 250 
camouflaged "Apocalypse Now" bikinis. 
Last movie of the late Frank Nelson, Jack 
Benny's "Yeeeeessss" man. Best Rita 
Jenrette movie since "Zombie Island 
Massacre" (Rita's on screen five seconds, as 
a picture on the wall). 16 breasts. Trapeze 
bed. The video equivalent of a wet Y-shirt 
contest. Three stars.
And finally, my buddy Dino DeLaurentiis, 
king of the modem drive-in producers, 
ordered one of his lackeyes in El Lay to send 
me a video of "Manhunter," assuming  
correctly  that I would refuse to actually 
drive to the drive-in to watch it.
Basically what we got here is Bill Petersen 
as an FBI agent chasin a sexual deviate 
murderer, but if he's gonna catch the deviate, 
Bill has to BECOME a deviate  think 
like a deviate, act like a deviate, read my 
column, and then once he gets on the guy's 
trail, he requests $340 billion worth of 
technical assistance from FBI headquarters
 30 guys who don't work on any other 
case but this one, Lear jets, satellite 
hookups, and, best of all, an art director so 
the sexual deviate kills everybody against 
colorful pastel backgrounds so Bill can turn 
on HIS VCR and watch. Great scene where 
the deviate puts panty hose over his face, 
sets a guy on fire, and rolls him down a 
parkin-garage ramp in a flaming wheelchair, 
hut way too much plot constantly gettin in 
the way of the story and not enough scenes 
t Kim Greist exposing her...
(rest of pages missing)
Last week three letters with rabies poured 
in.
The first one said, "No! No! No! Joe Bob, 
you've finally sold out to the video wimps, 
haven't you? You've sold your soul to the 
itty bitty indoor-bullstuff screen!"
Thank you for givin me an opportunity to 
respond to this charge. If you are implyin 
that I can be INFLUENCED by wealthy 
video distributors who want to send me free 
movie tapes in the mail all the time, then 
the answer is:
Yes, that's correct.
The second disgruntled drunk said, "How 
can you expect to keep the few remaining 
drive-ins alive when you contribute to the 
problem by giving aid and comfort to the 
enemy?"
As I have said many times, I will never do 
anything that violates my personal and 
professional code of journalistic ethics. 
However, I will do anything for money.
But I am not abandoning the drive-in. Next 
month, I hope to blackmail my congressman 
into sponsoring a bill for federal payments 
to drive-in owners. Thee system I have in 
mind would work exactly like what the dairy 
and tobacco farmers get. Every tim they kill 
a cow or bum some crops, they get money,
right? OK, same deal. Ever time we close 
down a drive-in, EVEN FOR ONE 
WEEKEND, we get $10,000. This will act
William Peterson, official FBI 
sexual deviate, spends the entire 
national defense budget capturing 
the world's only killer with a full
time art director, in Manhunter.
as an incentive for us to sit around on our 
rear-ends like the farmers do.
Finally, I got this letter:
" Joe Bob, I've always dreamed of 'doing it' 
at the drive-in, but I'm a generation too 
young. There aren't even any guys in my 
high school who want to do it at the drivein. Now you tell me that you  the man 
who holds the world record  won't even be 
doing it there anymore. Couldnt this be 
dangerous?"
I know it sounds kinky, But people are 
doing it in BEDS now. I don't understand it. 
I don't like it. But no one ever calls Joe Bob 
Briggs old-fashioned.
Let me say it one more time, too.
Great drive-ins never die. They just get 
knocked down with a big ceement wrackin 
ball and smashed into little bitty pieces and 
carried off to the city dump.
To prove it, I actually left my trailer house 
this week for THREE HOURS and went to 
see "Reform School Girls" cause the jerkolas 
at New World Pictures wouldn't send me the 
video. Main reason I wanted to see it is 
cause ripaway bra queen Sybil Danning's 
agent kept callin up and tellin me how awful 
it was and "Don't even waste .your time on 
it."
And, of course, as soon as I hear that, I 
know what's going on:
continued on page D8
Key 
Opportunities
TRW 
Will Be 
On Campus:November 6 & 7
The future is under your fingertips. 
And TRW may hold the keys to 
your future. Our Electronics and 
Defense Sector can offer you a 
seemingly endless choice of op
portunities. Opportunities in 
Microelectronics, high energy 
lasers, large software systems, 
communications and scientific 
spacecraft.
With your ideas, TRW will continue 
to make firm impressions in the 
future. Key into tomorrow's tech
nology today.
fe TRW Inc 1986 TRW is th< 
name and mark of TRW Inc
Please see your Campus Place
ment office for additional 
information.
Tomorrow is taking shape at a 
company called TRW.
Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Required
IIIVI
Electronics 
& Defense Sector

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
BLOOM COUNTY Provided by SDC by Berks Breathed
.ANP WHEN HE YOUR LIFE 6ET5thinks He's iEdoNoews irsMARLIN 000P WHAVB M PERKINS. me PEOPLE AT \ MUTUAL Of OMAHA\ TO TURN 01...ere,
0
BLOOM COUNTYProvided by SDC by Berke Breath*.
----------------- WBgJ'ZMB-g*" VI Ag'H IT**1
7my SneN fi NA mm wrm fi NSieNmvyAANANACONPA // PLEASE-. TELL MUTUAL OF OMAHA * NO
.50 WE'LL 06WSoew mCONTRACTSTOMORROW/.
MYWORP..A MERCHANP/S/NO PEAL TO PROPUCE PLUSH TOY 0ASSELOPES...
WAAe tll 8i Wiioew thousanps Ay urneSTUFFEP M ALL OVER SHOPPING MALLS AR0UNP THE COUNTRY..,
TP PREFER TO BE PVLU&OVER CARRETTA^
ALCOHOL.
J irsMr som,TRUST m
\
f?
i/ ...they certainly don't read newspapers.
son, we want to see this basselopeTHING. NOW.A SMALL TACTICAL WARHEAP WOULP FIT NEATLY BETWEEN HIS ANTLERS. TCOULPBBTa m-pepOYMETHE REPS ARE RUMOREP TO HfNE A BASSELOPE.OUR SI PE HAS NONE.PO YOU KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS, BOY?
S
fiemm 
&?//
^Vx-A
So. NORP MS OUT.. THE LAST BASSELOPE HAP BEEN FOUNP. ANPAMERICA'S ARMEP FORCES MOeiUZEP-LIKE THE ARMtf --
im/enea/SHOOT/
ANP THE SPORTSMEN...-.ANP WE PRESS.REACTION WAS SWIFT -Tm&HeisfSHOOT/5HOOTZ^ mm.(i^\mpiA//SWjjJCK/
PHMMIT. CORPORAL, THE Lime BU6GER TtNKLEP ON MY ~TONY LAMAS
MosnBEEN hpernxSIR..
GOOPMORNNG. m MILO. YOU'RE VERY FAMOUS AT THE MOMENT ANP ITHOUSHT YOU MtbHT NEEP A MANAGER. FIRST OFFLEVS ber A SHORT "&0* WRITTEN..
|/S \
OKAY-NAMEANPFYNORTEFOOP...
rtnSafwieANP BASSELOPES UKE 'POR TARTS'.
MARJOEP? SWINGING S/N6LE 7
I'M THE LAST ONE. T HAVEN'T SEEN A FEMALE FOR tes YBARS.
BASSELOPES  UKE :POP K>S YEARS f TARTS" ANPHOW CAN COLPWU POSSIBLY SHOWERS.
m>/1PRBAMT THATT_ MICHAEL JACKSON SLEEPS ON A BEP OF PASTEURBEt* PtGFATTVKEEP H/5^  SKIN SOFT AW 51/PPLe''_ tellmett\ v/wrmH *r Waans
SON, THE TRUTH IS THAT HE SLEEPS INA SPECIAL HIMPRESSURE OXfGEN CHAMBER TO MAKE HIM FEEL 1REJUVENATEP 1 REAP IT IN'NEWSWEEK:
OKAY.. UH.. HOW PIP )OU ALL bET EXTINCT f NATURAL P/SASTER 7 BUTCHERY BY MAN 7
TVE SOTTO PUT IN SOMETHING INTER' NOPE EST1N0. VENEREAL NOPE PISEASE 7 RECKLESS PRIVINO 7
!SF
CLCOOEP ARTERIES CLOGGEP ARTERIES 7
BASSELOPES vr. rUKE LOTS r Oal
OF PUTTER It/vi/ivqON THEIRPOP TARTS" \
LgPLzm lL. c.LLcg onw ns u,aFLIP SIPE' THAT'S &YER/THING EXCEPT THE KITCHEN SINK / SO LONG /
(
AtNrHoftoffc,
WIMA-MMTfvenvf?/'
"\
WTS IS PAN RATHER STILL SBARCHINO POR A SIGN-OFF. COURAGE/
/ iyrrft\
Boo-Boo the Barbarianby D.R. Snazz & the Man
S*UH \AMS fNtHNif Uff *T CMU PRETTY VUU.. UKW*S A
MUTHAT
Tee Tut4Hr,.SAUY HaiiLO 
FACt To rACC vilTH WtepesTiNy. v/wjlp eyigg gg ct

---------------------------------------------------

by Nadini Sudd, Ltdone o*| on lie cur
si R i OIDS00 eecaoe 
*jooe peee 
>p of ~.
Ctt OU MO Njbu DDMT / <o'&6OloUvisty 
Ger rtie A6M^
Inkspotsby Kurt Shaw
02P AUO vjo BJDOlS 
MAnJ 6VISM MC 10 |*fl5 
AMD IT'S ONty <f3 IAJto&J/H f i CAt*T&T 
Aut*/ fVom *]ooj.
Ave ST3M2 71H&,
Aeevj WRf
6em(
 *t> -fiit
Am
6*G
sir, did vjoo eeceivs
v|U pgcg CHG/VJgPUTEO Nose AIR 
cuppeix u/rjk QuiLf
IN A Al R4O0?
A301by Ed Baranoski
4/hat Does GoPUen Look! lu*C ?
foes hie spAk? 
Ooes W" CToME" 
U? ft7/2 4i ?
ingt h1 me:
K'nJOwJ Aoirr Ll/M ?
X
3JM3JOVff 
xf J.09 
'SX3J-VJ-S VOJ
Exo-Manby Jim Voorhees
r H*t> &USTEt> nv HAND Of'l MR COUGENIALITV^S JA.W6UT IT WA5 COOL 'cfiUsE E 
V*S in LA' LAND...
NEXT wECA:
THE ANSWER '
r9 8979 Ts7R235EQaKJ
n Our Side
The Carnegie Space Mellon by Thurston W. Jeffries
by Jeff Diehl
*V \JjMaak ingit
fro# \*$rmr mtoOl5T31-3
mc+U< rrs NOT A UHfVEKSm AftrMOJT, 5tr /5 A 8:0dpik lAR&e. -n* p&mqoti is urser vNAAs
VJHAT A^OvT SCOJexTiT age ThrPtn OOc obP 
EM006M, TJUT OK vfOO
Assaee tlet tl9
MCLOfO voKt'T FAUL.i*no.~ iwrro-.-
... COMhuKJ'sT
leYbg ovo
DowV
eoM^iee-) wofcfc>, 
J GKlOEAL
KtoBoOlS EM> GovvX. T 
0t Cease TO TM SPACE 
i^x^,-ET ^uswe 
G-er T our or 
There.
OKAN ,BctS, ^UT WHEXT 
Ttf^C VOAU. YOUfc 
h\LOK* OCXof" CAMP4
Peo*e'RT'y. tw. cur b**j 
*U6H ON \T./
THEY HAY* A L/ST OF 
OUAUTIBS TO USE ASGUIDELINES y/HiSNKCKUrnC PEOPLE^
THEY HAVE FOUA QN. O/i/OC. HE LMES 70 UFT HEMXJ&JEC.T-S.CMUtants by Translucia Baboon & Klutz Kaboom
TWt THM IMTt CAfU
...SSN AA/NDVH5 y' 7W-| 
IMVCKS/7Y tN VARIOUS ytAYS. f.
fhipj 'inm?amena
AWD W0NDEK1NQ IF MINE'S E/ER qotKQ 70 FIX THINQS.
ri<t C MUTAUTS RESPOWD TO 
A CAU. FROM klLflt.
A Look Withinby Kneep Debends
Hello/ VitCT rc<fust line
A W

V. IJ /<ke  rt<toei-<r7hrc-ioe<i sloths hove feeling tgo^
ool I aiso rcojJ lAe or /os /i
uertUse < tor foie /cb^ 
iUs-orlifc
J
5iWb'on
M I W '^>!E
skillcj
JRCTI

---------------------------------------------------

Page D8The TartanOctober 21, 1986
Joe Bob continues to sing the praises of video
continued from page D5
Fight on the set! Fight on the set!
Sybil Danning and Wendy O. Williams in 
the same movie!
Too many Amazon push-up bras in one 
place!
Catfight! Catfight!
Here's the inside skinny on what happened. 
It was SUPPOSED to be this Big-Mama 
hair-pullin eye-scratchin Brawl-a-Rama 
between Sybil and Wendy, only what 
happens? One of em  and most people say 
it was Wendy  REFUSES to do the scene 
with the other one. Sits on her trailer chewin 
live rats. So they gotta rewrite the ending 
with Sybil, as the evil warden, just 
disappearin off the screen, and Wendy, as the 
bad girl prison-gang leader, ridin on top of a 
runaway school bus that crashes into a guard 
tower and blows up Edna, the fat chocolatebon-bon-eating homosexual jailer. To which 
Joe Bob says:
Excellento! Four stars. Best woman-behindbars of the year, even though it's got the 
same exact plot of the last 37 bimbos-incages. Thirty-five breasts, thanks to mucho 
shower scenes. Elementary-school food 
fights, chocolate-milk mixing, redigesting, 
and face-in-beans slamming. Kerosene 
hurling. Bimbo branding. Three catfights. 
Two riots. Two dead bodies. Two hosedowns. One DOT-down. One motor vehicle 
chase, with crash and bum. Exploding Edna. 
Drive-In Academy Award nominations for 
Pat Ast, as Evil Matron Edna, for burning 
an emotionally disturbed girl's stuffed bunny 
rabbit and saying "The name of the game is 
control, ladies! Complete control!": Wendy
O., for combin her hair like a prize rooster; 
Sybil D., for attempting to quote Saint 
Joan; and Linda Carol, as the innocent 
blondie, for making the sign of the quadruple
breasted lake lizard with a blue-collar worker. 
Video Release of the week is:
"the Toolbox Murders" (1977): One of the
most popular video rentals, even though 
there's really only one reason to watch it  
Cameron Mitchell, in his greatest drive-in 
role, as a sadistic Bible-quoting sex killer 
who wears bad silk shirts and uses every 
appliance in his tool box as a murder 
weapon, including a power drill, claw
Old T.V.
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Hey does anyone remember channel 16? 
The on-time station that used to broadcast 
old movies is back, but this time things are 
different.
As the old 16, WQEX, 
broadcasted in black and white, 
the new 16 will show all it's 
programs in living color.
WQEX used to broadcast only in 
the evening, the new one will air 
from 8 a.m. to midnight. In the 
past WQEX transmitted with a 
very low power signal; now they 
are sending a much stronger 
singnal.
Although the station is now 
more technologically advanced 
than ever, the biggest change in 
the station is its format.
Bringing in some very new 
ideas to the market, WQEX will 
introduce the British sci-fi hit 
Dr. Who to Pittsburgh viewers.
Despite his widespread popular
ity in virtually every other 
public broadcasting market, this 
is the show's first time in the 
Steel City. Famous for warding off all kinds 
of intergalitic monsters and thus saving the 
universe from total destruction,-Dr .Who has 
a international weekly audience of 100 
million.
hammer, screwdriver, wire cutters and, best 
of all, a nail gun. Features such immortal 
dialogue as, "You need more than a spilled 
Pepsi to say she was kidnapped." Joe Bob 
recommends fast-forwarding to the scene 
where Cameron ties Laurie to the bedposts, 
forces her to imitate his dead daughter, feeds
Another first for the city will be the airing 
of the Hitch-hikers guide to the galaxy 
series. Much the same theme as Dr. Who, 
this series focuses on the lighter side to sav
ing the universe.
Fans of British comedy will also be happy
to hear that the outrageously funny Fawlty 
Towers, written and starring John Cleese, 
will again hit the Pittsburgh airwaves. 
Cleese is the snobish hotel owner, Basil 
Fawlty, who only cares about who is
her milk and cookies, makes her deny doing 
any "unnatural acts" with her boyfriend, and 
starts blubberin when she describes what it 
was like to go to Heaven. Based on a true 
story in El Lay. Recommended for 
Cameron's one big scene only.
Two Stars. Joe Bob says check it out.
staying in his hotel rather than the quality of
service.
WQEX will also show childrens' shows 
like Mister Rodgers Neighborhood, Sesame 
Street, and Captain Kangaroo; but at times 
when the whole family can view them (5:30 - 
7:30).
They will also broadcast Ivy 
League Football, This Old 
House, and Victory Garden. No
tice similarities between QEX 
and QED programs? That is be
cause they are both owned by 
Metropolitan Pittsburgh Public 
Broadcasting Incorporated.
In the prime-time slots the two 
differ greatly, though.
Each night WQEX will show 
programs that deal with a differ
ent theme. On Mondays they 
will show foreign films, docu
mentaries, or specials all falling 
under the category of "Foreign 
Encounters." Tuesday features 
live performances. Wednesday 
will showcase self-improvement 
programs. On Thursday they 
will air porgrams that fall under 
"The Electric Playground." 
These are programs that will appeal to 
young adults. The weekend programming 
will feature "Risk Takers" on Friday, 
"Remember When" on Saturday, and "The 
Big Event" on Sunday.
station gets a new image
Dinner with the Don/
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Each Week
Sunday through Thursday  7pm -10pm
-Calculus PH 126 A
(Pre, I, II, IH)
-Physics PH 126B
-Chemistry PH 126C
-Academic Writing Problems PH 125B
-Financial Accounting PH 226B
-Economics PH 226C
-Intro. To Computing WeH 5415
-Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center 
Division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

Page D9The TartanOctober 21, 1986Woodentops hit the mark with Giant
1 2r, 986.
Assistant Entertainment Editor
Woodentops
GiantColumbia/Rough Trade
I must admit, I had this band picked as a 
one-hit-wonder, having heard Good Thing 
all over the radio for the past few weeks. I 
was wrong. Perhaps the reason I'd written 
the Woodentops off prematurely was that the 
song reminds me a lot Just Got Lucky by 
jo Boxers; a band that died in its sophomore 
slump. I'm generally suspect of any band 
that comes on so strong with a single like 
"Good Thing ", whose premise is built on a 
really "different" sound -- see Dexy's 
Midnight Runners and Soft Cell. Singer/
songwriter Rolo McGinty is credited with 
"acoustics" in Giant liner notes. The usage 
may sound funny at first, even pretentious, 
but hearing the album you understand just 
how befittingly the word is used. McGinty 
plays a mean acoustic rhythm. This albums 
bubbles with the type rhythmic backbone 
used so effectively on "Good Thing". Don't 
be mislead, it isn't that the tunes all sound 
alike (recalling the pop-and-fizzzle monotony 
of Haircut One Hundred).
McGinty's breathy vocals and clean use of 
the guitar are reminiscent of Aztec Camera's 
Roddy Frame, while the band has the rare 
knack for filling out a song without 
sounding over-processed, much in the style 
of Prefab Sprout. The tunes are typically 
squeaky clean, and almost always danceable. 
This is quite a feat considering the band uses 
strictly acoustic drums. It's unfortunate that
many people today have "danceable" necess
arily matched with a beat box and a 
thundering bass. It's quite hard to make a 
song jump without the use of electronics 
and I think Giant says something for the 
adage "less is more." In the latest issue of 
Rolling Stone, McGinty indicates that the 
acoustic approach gives Giant a human 
element - I agree. The Woodentops' playful 
sound is absolutely natural. Simple melodies 
combined with sparse lyricism and catchy 
beats lend warmth to the album, and while 
there is nothing threatening about the music, 
it'd be a truly shortsighted mistake to 
call it wimpish.
By DAVE MILLER
Special to the Tartan
Max Urban is a little concerned about 
Allison's cough on his new album Phlegm 
Fatale, in which he creates a wacky two act 
extravaganza that matches Frank Zappa in its 
wit, intelligence and innovation. There are 
17 tracks on this album. Many use Liquid 
S/rv-style cheesy electronics, while. others 
such as "In The Garden" might have fit well 
into the musical Hair. You may discover 
something new every time you listen to 
Phlegm Fatale, an album that can provide 
hours of fun-filled entertainment.
Many of you may be familiar with 
Britain's 4AD records by way of such artists 
as the Cocteau Twins, This Mortal Coil, 
Modern English, and early Bauhaus. 
Recently Ivo, who runs 4AD, discovered 
what he calls "Le mystere des voix bulgares", which are recordings of Bulgarian 
folk music, primarily choral, from hundreds 
of years ago. Ivo lent these recordings his 
familiar soft harmonic 4AD production to 
create a truly beautiful record.
In a recent article in the Pitt News, WRCT
In a few cases you get the initial 
impression that you've heard the tune before, 
though you can't quite decide when or where. 
This is the strange sense of familiarity that 
creeps into Giant.
Particularly good cuts include "So Good 
Today", "Love Affair With Everyday Livin'" 
and "Love Train", where a haunting trumpet 
is as effective as it is in Fine Young 
Cannibals' "Johnny Come Home".
Also check out the dissonant keyboard fills 
by Alice Thompson on "Shout" (no, not 
the Animal House song)  they carry a 
subtle sting, if that's possible. Like the
was alledged to play only hardcore and 
experimental music. The Shop Assistant's 
"Safety Net" 12-inch would be quite difficult 
to categorize that way. This is power pop 
that puts the Bangles and the Go-Go's to 
shame. An excess of feedback and an fault
less sixties flair for great melodies make for 
three songs with lots of pop punch, and 
probably a bright future for this band.
Many hardcore band these days are turning 
to speed metal, which makes it particularly 
refreshing to find a band like Gray Matter, 
who seem to have that same knack for 
catchy guitar hooks that REM has. Unlike 
REM, however, Gray Matter's Take It Back 
EP is loud and fast, and features Dischord 
Records' Ian MacKaye back in the production 
seat.
No matter what your musical taste, you 
will be hardpressed not to find yourself 
impressed and bewildered by Bobby 
McFerrin, who proves that the human voice 
is the most versatile instrument of them all. 
His jazzy a capella rendition of "From Me 
To You" as well as other solo pieces on his 
Spontaneous Invention album make use of
acoustic guitars, the keys blend in with the 
sound as there isn't really any dominating 
instrument to the sound. The vocals are 
tight and McGinty seems a capable lyricist, 
though his subjects are a bit homogeneous 
and abstract.
This shouldn't be much of a deterrent in 
your listening to this album, though. 
Anything lacking in lyrical substance is 
more than compensated for in the driving 
arrangements. The more I listen to Giant, 
the more it grows on me. Overall, I'd say 
this is one of the best albums I've heard this 
year and I strongly recommend it.
the voice in ways one wouldn't have expec
ted to be possible. On "Walkin'', McFerrin's 
voice blends in perfectly with Wayne Shor
ter's soprano saxaphone. Robin Williams, 
the Manhattan Transfer, and Herbie Hancock 
also make guest performances on this al
bum.
My Dad Is Dead is a one man band from 
Cleveland who takes care of vocals, guitar, 
bass, and percussion on his own on his 
newly released ...and he's not gonna take it 
anymore album. This is simple and depress
ing, but not overbearing music. Mark Ed
wards' voice is distinctive, but not irritating, 
and the music has a very refreshing quality 
that most of this style of music has lacked 
since the early eighties.
Max Urban's Phlegm Fatale is available 
from M=NO, P.O Box 1122, Topanga, CA 
90290. The Shop Assistants on Cubic Mus
ic, Le mystere des voix bulgare on 4AD, 
Bobby Mcferrin on Blue Note, Gray Matter 
on Dischord, and My Dad Is Dead on St. 
Valentine.
David Miller is the Music Director at 
WRCT
WRCT picks the college hits
TheTheIUST-A-CUTDESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUT
only $25.00* $13.00$8.00
Complete with written guarantee.
ComDletfL with shampoo 
and blow style.
Cut only
NO APKMNTMCNT CVNECESSARY IHiW ICHKCTflTMItSPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
Great SMes Start at... ][
yLLiEMoOdMo
^^TJj)WE_CUUPON_
SAVE $2.00
Offer expires: 
OCT. 31,1986
L
CJtCflT CHfCCTJITMnS IPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS |
on aPRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling
NECESSARYOft_____GREATEHPCGTflTltnSPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from Oakland Post Office
687-3500
We were looking for new 
shades when I realized It 
was time to do some
thing about my hair. You 
know, my hair was 
driving me crazy. So, we 
cruised right into Oreat 
Expectations. Now with 
my new cut, my hair is 
driving Bobby crazy.
Customers: Sue and Bob, 
inseparable ever since.
our dough mode FRESH doily
810 IVY STREET  SHADYSIDE
682-3333
FREE DELIVERY TO:
 Shodyside  Pt. Breeze 
 Sq. Hill  Oakland ~
 Friendship Park  Bloomfield 
Highland Park
Pat
FREE DELIVERY
FAST FREE DELIVERY
CALI FOR FREE DELIVERY 12 NOON TO 12 MIDNIGH
COUPON
Large Cheese Pizza 
$3.99 
Free liter of coke
(All sandwiches come with rr.elted provolone cheese and are OVEN-BAKED)
Italian Hoagie..............................................4.00
V2 Hoagie............................................. 2.00
Hot Sausage.................................................3.90
Meat Ball.........................................................3.90
Cheese Hoagie...........................................3.20
Steak Hoagie..............................................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie.................................4.20
Cold Sub.......................................................... 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe).....................................4.70
(Real Italian Capicolla with Green
Peppers, Mushrooms A that Special Touch)
(All topped with fresh lettuce, tomato, onion  unless specified) 
(Green Peppers or Mushrooms  25* Extra)

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIOThe TartanOctober 21, 1986
appear at the ArenaBilly Joel to
By JOSH REUBEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Billy Joel will be perfoming at the Civic 
Arena on October 27, which will surely be 
one of the biggest concerts to come to 
Pittsburgh this year.
When the news broke in early September 
that there would be a show, fans were, at 
first, a little stunned. After all, Billy has 
recently had a child, Alexa Ray, with his 
new wife Christie Brinkley. Being married 
to Christie would be enough to wear 
someone outbut a baby too! Where does 
William get the strength?
His latest album The Bridge has been a big 
hit. The album's hit single, "Matter of 
Trust" has Billy going back to the hard beat 
and driving lyrics that he started his career 
off with. He has rolled off three big hit 
records in a row in the last 2 years including 
An Innocent Man and his Greatest Hits 
Volumes 1 and 2.
Billy Joel's career has been a very turbulent 
one. When he first started out playing piano 
bars in New York, he was a kid who had big 
dreams but no way to make them come true. 
Eventually, he began to develop a following 
in those clubs and soon started to make
records. His career was still going nowhere, 
though. His music was different; combining 
rock style melodies with lyrics that anyone 
could understand and relate to. His ballads, 
though, are what helped to make him a star. 
When he first hit the charts with Piano Man 
in 1973, his career was made.
He had a string of successful albums after 
Piano Man, all of which included new songs 
and some older ones that to which he wanted 
to give exposure. Everything finally paid 
off in 1978 when he won the Grammy award 
for 52nd Street. This was an album that 
really showed his wide musical range. He 
went from ballads, to rock n' roll, to jazz, 
and even blues.
Billy went silent in the years following 
52nd Street. He said that he was very leary 
about going back into the studio again. 
Fortunately, he did go back and produced 
Nylon Curtain. This was a very angry and 
powerful record, with songs like 
"Allentown" and "Pressure." The public 
loved it, and Billy went on tour after there 
was an outcry that he take his music to his 
fans.
Billy Joel can play several instruments, 
including keyboards, guitar, and harmonica.
In his concerts he plays music for his old 
fans, not the ones that just liked his last 
album. He plays a lot of old stuff, most of 
the new stuff, and sometimes, even sneaks 
in a song that he has not recorded yet! He 
has such a vast repertoire of music that there 
really is no time for an opening act his 
concerts. Hopefully, he will keep up that 
tradition and not have anyone open for him 
in Pittsburgh.
Billy Joel is a true showman. He does not 
talk "at" the audience in between numbers, 
he talks "to" them. Even though he is the 
"star" he still incorporates members of his 
band into the show by telling stories and 
occasionally giving them the spotlight.
In Atlanta, he went on with a bad cold that 
almost developed into pnuemonia. 
Immediately after 3 encores and 4 curtain 
calls, he was rushed to the hospital. Nobody 
in the audience even thought that he was 
sick.
The best part about a Joel concert is that 
the crowds are lively but are not out of hand, 
as they would be at a hard rock concert. A 
Billy Joel concert is the place to hear some 
great music with some good people and 
watch a true performer.
Classifieds
Waiters and Waitresses wanted. Apply 
2:30-4:30 at the new Sichuan House in Squirrel 
Hill, 1900 Murray Ave., or call 422-2700.
Think Jewish? Why? Come with y0Ur 
questions and desire to listen. Tuesday nights 
7:30-8:30 Skibo 13. Call 521-3728 for 
information.
Newly Reduced Rents. Walk to 
universtities. Spacious studios and 1 bedroom, 
laundry facilities. Security bldg. From $266 all 
utilities included. 361-5792.
Help Wanted: Occasional child care in our 
home for one year old. Interested in help on 
occasional mornings, afternoons and/or Saturday 
evenings. Telephone 422-7180.
Wanted: babysitter. Some housework,
experienced, mature and reliable, educated, in 
Squirrel Hill. Part-time. 521-2886 after 6.
Delivery Persons. Enjoy freedom, flexible 
hours, and above average wages ($6-$9 per hour) 
as a delivery person for Domino's Pizza. No 
experience necessary. You qualify if you are at 
least 18, have a car with insurance, and a good 
driving record. Apply in person at 315 N. Craig 
St. or 623 Greenfield Ave.
SIMCHAT TORAH BLAST! Sat. night, Oct. 
25, 8:00 p.m.-? Skibo Rooms 12 & 13. FREE! 
Celebrate with food, voice and dance.
Student papers, resumes and cover 
letters. Two word processors for prompt 
service. Work picked up or returned to Oakland 
Mondays and Thrusdays. Call for details. Betty, 
Seton Secretarial Service, 793-5804.
$60.00 PER HUNDRED PAID for remailing 
letters from home! Send self-addressed, stamped 
envelope for information/application. 
Associates, Box 95-B, Roselle, N.J. 07203.
WORD PROCESSING by professional typist 
 discount to college students  will pick up 
and deliver  24 hour answering center  call 
653-2426.
Apartment for Rent: Highland Park, clean
one-bedroon apratment. Very nice area; quiet for 
studying. 1 month free rent. Call 824- 
9297/Glenn Pontil. Graduate students only. 
WANTED!!! Agressive, enthusiastic students to 
market winter and spring break vacations! For 
more information, call Student Travel Services at 
1-800-648-4849.
RESEARCH PAPERS: 15,278 available!
Catalog $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, 
Los Angeles 90025. TOLL FREE HOT LINE: 1- 
800-351-0222, Ext. 33. Visa/MC or COD. 
SUSAN
We cannot wait to call you "SISTER"! 
love,
the sisters of CHI OMEGA 
Desperately seeking Anna's seeking Audrey and 
Justin!!
Call quickly
I need a "fix"!
THE PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY
POSITIONS AVAILABLE
AREA REP MANAGER
Earn salary, commission and 
free travel. Position involves 
management of area campus 
reps for a national college 
travel and marketing firm. 
Approximately 20 hours per 
week, ideal for senior or 
graduate student.
CAMPUS REP
Earn commission and free 
travel. Market ski and beach 
tours on your campus.
Call Michael DeBoer at 914- 
682-1795 or write to Amer
ican Access Travel, 141 Cen
tral Park Avenue South, 
Hartsdale, NY 10530
CALL TOLL FREE (800) 992-3773
Artist
WRCT Top Ten List
ReleaseLabel
PTV12-InchTemple (UK)
Bad BrainsI Against 1/7 InchSST
My Dad Is Dead...and hes not gonna take itSt. Valentine
Camper Van BeethovenEPRough Trade (U.K.)
Disdaintapes _BFP tapes
Gargoyle SoxHeadless HorsemenManster
New OrderPeel SessionsStrange Fruit
Virgil MoorefieldBhopalMt. Bear/NMPS
Nick Cave & The Bad SeedsKicking Against the PricksHomestead
Robert FrippLiveEditions Eg/Jem
Zombie Zinger
'sa^rfcDEAD; , p< MGHTnSor moviethe campy  Pittsburght
0*28*  PM h
A
/i
V
Quite Extraordinary Television

---------------------------------------------------

B angles 
Tickets
Wednesday, 
October 29
Syria Mosque
8pm
Reserved Seating
Tickets will be available 
tomorrow, Wednesday, 
October 22 at 9am at Skibo 
Information Desk. ONE 
ticket per ID  ONE ID per 
person. You will not be able 
to get a group of tickets unless 
each member of the group 
stands in line together.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12The TartanOctober 21, 1986
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm 
on Monday, November 3, in his office, 602 
Warner Hall. Students who wish to meet 
with the president should telephone his 
secretary at 268-2200 to set up an 
appointment.
Patrice Smith of Kaufmann's
recruiting department will speak to all 
interested students on job opportunities in 
the field of retail on Tuesday at 5:30 in BH 
237B. The lecture is sponsored by the 
Association of Students in Industrial 
Management and Economics. AIME will 
meet before the lecture at 5:00 pm. Students 
of all majors interested in AIME, retail, or 
Kaufmann's are urged to attend.
Library Schedule: Hunt Library:
Monday - Thursday, 8 am - 3 am; Friday,
8 am - midnight; Saturday, 9 am - midnight; 
Sunday, noon - 3 am.
Engineering and Science Library: Monday - 
Thursday, 8 am - midnight; Friday, 8 am - 
6 pm; Saturday, 9 am - 9 pm; Sunday, 10 
am - midnight. Mellon Institute Library: 
Monday - Friday, 8:30 am - 5 pm; Saturday 
and Sunday, closed.
Audio-Visual Services: Monday - Thursday, 
8:30 am - 11 pm; Friday, 8:30 am - 5 pm; 
Saturday, noon - 5 pm; Sunday, noon - 11 
pm.
Book and Audio Visual equipment 
sale, sponsored by Hunt Library, at 8:30 
am to 4:45 pm in the lower level Hunt 
Library, through October 22. For more 
information call 268-2441.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy 
celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 
pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at 
noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For 
more information call 681-3181.
Buhl Science Center. "The Violent 
Universe." Veteran film actor Vincent Price 
takes audiences on a grand tour of "things 
that go bump in the night," the turbulent 
and dynamic activity of the universe in a 
seemingly tranquil starry night sky. Explore 
solar lasers, nova and supernova, the Milky 
Way's violent explosions and possible black 
hole and the Big Bang  the fiery birth of 
the universe itself at 2 pm, Monday through 
Friday; 11 am, 2 pm and 4:15 pm, Saturday; 
and 2 pm and 4 pm, Sunday, through 
November 18.
Buhl Science Center. Laserium. 
Journey to an energetic and colorful world 
where blazing lights and magical images 
glow and gyrate to music by rock's most 
spectacular artists in Laserium, presented 
live under the stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, 
Thursday through Sunday; and 3 pm, 
Saturday. For current concerts call 321 - 
5554.
Buhl Science Center. "Color, 
nineteen do-it-yourself modules explore the 
mysteries behind everyday color phenomena. 
Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday 
through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 
and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more 
information call 321-4300.
Buhl Science Center. "Bio Comer," 
interact with newly-hatched chicks and 
ducklings - new ones hatching weekly. 
Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday 
through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 
and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more 
information call 321-4300.
Buhl Science Center. "Image
Imagination," hands-on modules explore 
amazing images - let your imagination run 
wild. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
Buhl Science Center. "Foucault 
Pendulum," displays proof of Earth's 
rotation. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For
more information call 321-4300.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Jr. Children's 
Theatre. Jack and the Beanstalk. Do you 
know what A-D-V-E-N-T-U-R-E spells? 
Well, that's what happens to Jack when he 
climbs the beanstalk! See Jack battle the 
Giant! See the Giant's wacky wife! See the 
living Harp that comes to Jack's aid! Its 
high flying adventure with a lot of surprises 
at 11 am and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; and 2:30 
pm, Sundays, through November 16.
Tuesday
Movies
Putney Swope, starring Arnold Johnson 
and Allen Garfield. Satire on Madison 
Avenue. A mild-mannered black employee 
is transformed into the chairman of the board 
of a company with comic results. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Architecture Lecture.
Rodolfo Machado, Machado and Silvetti, 
Associates, Inc., and Henry Bishop, 
Professor of Architecture, Yale University, 
speak on "Profiles Against the Sky" at 8 pm 
in WeH 7500.
Department of Chemical Eng. 
Seminar. Dr. Carl J. Johnson, II-VI 
Incorporated, speaks on "Current Materials 
Science/Engineering Issues in II-VI 
Semiconductor Processing" at 11 am in DH 
room 1112. Coffee and doughnuts are served 
at 10:45 am in Conference Room, DH 1102.
Workshops
Make the Most of Your Summer.
Find answers to questions like: How do I 
look for a summer job? What are some of 
the avenues I should pursue? How do I find 
out what's "out there?" and who do I market 
myself to? at 11:30 am in Skibo room 12. 
Career Decision Making SeriesFreshmen and Sophomore Section. A four 
session seminar designed to help you assess 
your interests and abilities, explore current 
career interests as well as new ideas, and 
form goals and strategies at 3:30 pm in 
Skibo room 12. Limited enrollment. Sign 
up at Career Services, Warner Hall 19, or 
call x2064.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood Dining Hall.
Wednesday
Movies
Modern Times, starring Paulette Goddard, 
Charlie Chaplin and Chester Conklin. One 
of the great classic films on the machine age 
as Chaplin satirized just about everything in 
sight. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Architecture
Seminar. Jon Jackson speaks at 12:30 pm 
in CFA 206.
Department of Social and Decision 
Sciences Seminar. Dr. Bernard Carlson, 
University of Virginia, speaks on" Thomas 
Edison as a Manager of Research and 
Development" at 3:30 pm in Scaife Hall 
room 422.
Workshops
Career Decision Making SeriesFreshmen and Sophomore Section. A four
session seminar designed to help you assess 
your interests and abilities, explore current 
career interests as well as new ideas and form 
goals and strategies at 3:30 pm in Skibo 
room 12. Limited enrollment. Sign up at 
Career Services, Warner Hall 19, or call 
x2064.
Graduate Admissions Workshop. If
graduate or professional school is a 
consideration in your future, take advantage 
of this resource while at Camegie Mellon. 
Leam tips on locating programs, finding 
dollars, and sorting through application 
procedures at 4:30 pm in Skibo room 12.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood Dining Hall.
Thursday
Movies
To Kill A Mockingbird, starring 
Gregory Peck, Mary Badham, Brock Peters 
and Robert Duvall. Overwhelming film 
based faithfuly on Harper Lee's novel about a 
young girl growing up in a small Southern 
town. Brilliant in every respect. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:45 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Casablanca, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission 
$1.
Lectures
CMU Writers Guild is sponsoring a 
reading in Forbes Gallery at 7 pm. 
Bioengineering Graduate Seminar. Dr. Fitz
Roy E. Curry, University of California, 
speaks on "Modulation of Permeability in 
Single Capillaries" at 12:30 pm in DH 
1102. A light lunch is served at noon prior 
to the seminar and a question-andanswer 
session follows.
Workshops
Independent Job Search. Campus 
interviews are not meant to be your only 
job search strategy! Come leam where else 
you can distribute your resumes using want 
ads, informal contacts, address directories, 
walk-in visits and employment agencies at 
4:30 in Skibo room 12.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood Dining Hall.
Friday
Movies
Amadeus, starring F. Murray Abraham and 
Tom Hulce. Sensational adaptation of Peter 
Shaffer's play about a composer whose 
jealousy helps destroy Mozart. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 10:15 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
The Europeans, starring James Ivory. 
Filmed on location in New England, this 
faithful adaptation of the Henry James novel 
features a fine performance by Lee Remick 
as Eugenia. Camegie Institute at 8 pm. 
Amission $3.00.
9 1/2 Weeks, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Special Events
Professional Women on Campus
present "The Professional Face" in the 
Wherret room from 12 noon to 1. Ms.
Fonda Lurye, Professional Consultant for 
Lancome from Joseph Home Co., will give 
a makeup presentation with volunteers from 
the audience. Memeber $3.50, guests $4.50 
Make reservations by calling x22l3 by 
Wednesday.
Haunted House, sponsored by 
Community Human Services Corporation 
and Y97 FM, at 6:30 pm to 11 pm at 374 
Lawn St., Oakland. Admission $2.25 adults 
and $1.25 children and senior citizens. For 
more information call 621-4706.
Saturday
Movies
Life of Brian, starring John Cleese, Terry 
Jones, Graham Chapman and the Monty 
JPython crew. Outrageous satire about a man 
whose life parallels that of Jesus Christ. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
White Knights, sponsored by SDC 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 
pm. Admission $1.
Special Events
Haunted House, sponsored by 
Community Human Services Corporation 
and Y97 FM, at 6:30 pm to 11 pm at 374 
Lawn St., Oakland. Admission $2.25 adults 
and $1.25 children and senior citizens. For 
more information call 621-4706.
Sunday
Movies
Gone With the Wind, starring Clark 
Gable, Vivian Leigh, Leslie Howard, Olivia 
De Havilland, Hattie McDaniel and Thomas 
Mitchell. Voted the best American film of 
all time by the American Film Institute in 
1977. Oscars to just about everybody. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Strange Behavior, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Monday
Movies J
Bizet's Carmen, starring Placido 
Domingo, Julia Migenes-Johnson, Ruggero 
Raimondi and Faith Esham. Fine screen 
adaptation of Bizet's opera. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan, send it to ACME / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus 
mail to the above address or drop it off at 
5017 Forbes Ave (The house between Delta 
Upsilon and ATO).
Please include the following information 
when submitting events: Title of event,
sponsor, brief description, location, date, and 
time. In addition, include the name and 
phone number of the person submitting the 
entry; this information will be used only to 
confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any Event listing. In 
addition, it reserves the right to edit or omit 
any listing for publication.
Classified ads are taken in our office, Skibo 
Rm 50, onl\. and will not be taken over ihi 
phone.
