94, issue 15tartan@andrew.cmu.edu7 February 2000
SARC organizes Slice 
of Life conference
by Anwesha Rakshit
Staff Writer 
& Eunice Liew
Staff Writer
The Robert G. McCurdy Slice of 
Life program, an all-day conference 
held on February 5, 2000, gave stu
dents the opportunity to gain life 
skills from the alumni who have 
experienced it first-hand. It was co
sponsored by the Career Center and 
the Student Alumni Relations 
Council (SARC).
The day offered programs such as 
Seven Secrets of Successful 
People, Working Women, and So 
You Want to Start Your Own 
Business. These sessions were 
geared towards students who would 
be interning in the summer, seeking 
permanent employment, or pursu
ing graduate school.
I saw the topics of the sessions 
and I was really interested in some 
of them. So I decided to go check it
out. The Seven Secrets of 
Successful People was very interest
ing and the Working Women 
showed us a lot of articles which 
were very useful, said Daniella 
Bennett, a first-year undecided 
H&SS student.
My friend was going to Slice of 
Life so I attended. Its very informa
tive. I have not been to any SARC 
events before. Im planning to go to 
a few more sessions which are jobrelated because Im looking for an 
internship this summer, said Jike 
Chong, a senior in ECE.
Joanna Peters, a senior in ethics, 
history, and public policy was 
responsible for organizing the Slice 
of Life conference. She worked to 
coordinate events that would fulfill 
the needs of students like Chong. 
We added a couple of new pro
grams this year, such as an etiquette 
dinner that is supposed to teach you 
professionalism because so much is
See SLICE, page 5
Student Senate increases activities fee
by Seth Mandel
Managing Editor
Student Senate voted last Thursday to raise 
the student activities fee by three dollars per 
semester. The increase is intended to adjust the 
fee for inflation and is specified by the student 
body bylaws. This policy, which has been part of 
the bylaws since 1998, specifies that the increase 
is subject to Senate approval, according to 
Michael Murphy, Dean of Student Affairs.
Given the many excellent uses for these 
funds, and especially the fact that they are con
trolled by students and enhance campus life, I 
think the fee increase is well justified, said 
Murphy. As should be clear, the intention is to 
maintain the same real position and not let infla
tion eat away at the base until a major increase is 
warranted, as has been the more step function 
manner of handling in the past, he said.
This is the first change in the student activities 
fee since students voted by referendum to raise it 
by 15 dollars per semester in early 1998. With 
Senates vote on Thursday, the six-dollar-peryear increase was finalized and will appear on 
students bills for the fall semester.
According to Senate Chair and senior elec
trical and computer engineering major Pat 
Ditterline, the Graduate Student Assembly 
and the Board of Trustees have already 
approved the change. While all fees must be 
approved by the Board of Trustees, the Board 
has traditionally deferred decisions regarding 
the student activities fee to Senate, said 
Murphy.
The three dollar adjustment was calculated 
based on the CPI for Pittsburgh, which is a mea
sure of inflation and is determined by the price 
changes of a fixed economic basket of goods, 
said Ditterline to the Senators. The current 
adjustment takes into account the inflation over
the past two years. More specifically, the policy 
specifies the 65 dollar fee from the base 98-99 
school year is to be increased by the cumulative 
inflation since then. The point of calculating the 
adjustment based on cumulative inflation is so 
that the fee retains its real value, rather than los
ing purchasing power over time due to rounding, 
said Murphy.
According to Ditterline, the fee was not adjust
ed last year because Senate forgot. By the time 
they tried to address the matter in late Spring, 
Murphy told Senate that he believed it was inap
propriate to allow for a fee increase so late in the 
year. Murphy said he takes responsibility for not 
advising Senate better.
Since that was my decision [to not make the 
adjustment], I agreed to cover the income lost by 
not raising the fee. Senate agreed to confirm the 
increase in the future prior to the start of; 
February, said Murphy.
See SENATE, page 5
Students form local Rotaract Club chapter
by Jennifer Resick
Staff Writer
Carnegie Mellon continued its 
expansion in community service 
opportunities this week with the 
introduction of the Rotaract Club. 
This service-devoted organization 
is a local chapter of the 
International Rotary Club.
The organization started when 
Forbes House, an invitation-only 
residence hall for first-year stu
dents commited to personal devel
opment and community service, 
invited Rotary Club speaker Don 
Arnheim to talk about the club. The 
meeting boosted interest in several 
students and the result was the cre
ation of a new service organization.
The new cliib will be an excel
lent addition to the service organi
zations on campus. Im always 
happy to see students involved wit;
Students learn etiquette while"talking to CM.U alumni at the Slice of Life eti
quette dinner sponsored by SARC.
PAT, CMU continue bus services
community projects, said Rachel 
Dub, the vice president of commu
nity service for Hillel.
The founding officers of the club 
are president Clarence Cheung and 
vice president Chad McKibben, 
both first-year undecided H&SS 
students, and treasurer Richard 
Chen, a first-year student in CIT. 
Cheung says that, unlike traditional 
organizations, this one is not run by 
just the officers. My role is net
working people, not just running 
the program, said Cheung. Our 
mission is to network students, fac
ulty, and community leaders to bet
ter our surroundings through com
munity service.
I feel that the Rotaract Club is an 
ideal organization for the CMU 
community because of the interna
tional scope of both Rotary and 
CMU, said McKibben, who was 
also involved in Rotary as a high 
school student. In Rotaract, we are
Rotaract club members participated in the "Homeless Initiative through 
Shadyside in order to collect food and clothing for Pittsburghs homeless, 
able to donate money, time, and local and national levels.
manpower to any part of the world 
in an instant. We hope to be very 
active at CMU especially at the 
international level, but also at the
Cheung has turned to several of 
his friends to help get the activities 
started. I feel its important to 
- See ROTARACT, page 5
by Sara Stille
Acting News Editor 
& Megan Adriance
Junior Staff Writer
Now that Pittsburgh has entered 
the winter months of snow and ice, 
Carnegie Mellon students, faculty, 
and staff are taking full advantage 
of the Port Authority/CMU 
arrangement. All degree-eligible
students and benefits-eligible fac
ulty and staff have been able to ride 
any Port Authority (PAT) vehicle 
for free by showing a.validated ID 
since July 1999.
PAT has increased its ridership 
for the third straight year. They 
now average around 5 to 7 million 
riders a month. Last year, Carnegie 
Mellons contribution increased 
dramatically due to the new agree
ment. In September and October
1999, CMU ridership was up to over 
78,000 riders per month.
The current agreement is good 
for five years. Students now pay 
$35 each term and, similarly, facul
ty and staff have the same amount 
deducted from their benefits pool. 
According to Michael Murphy, the 
Dean of Student Affairs, the agree
ment allows for an annual rate 
increase of two percent to an eight 
See PAT, page 5
Pittsburgh Port Authority Bus Service: Total CMU Ridership
Most Popular Routes for CMU Students in December, 1999:
61C MckeesportHomestead: 10,841 riders 
61A East PittsburghWilkensburg: 5,025 
61B BraddockSwissvale: 5,012
28X Airport Flyer: 2,281
94, i4sue 15t4ae 4rn 5r@d, w.5 crdmb The accumulation of snow for the past two weeks has resulted in 
the construction of many snow structures, such as the above couch and TV set. Several CMU students have chosen 
to brave the cold and take time out from their busy schedules to appreciate the wintery weather.
INSIDE THE TARTAN
Campus cable offers movie channel
by Lisette Miller-Dixon
Contributing Editor
Campus Housing, the Student 
Dormitory Council (SDC), the 
Activities Board (AB), and Telecom 
have combined forces to provide 
on-campus residents with a new 
movie channel called the Housing 
Movie Channel (HMC).
Since the summer of 1997, the 
Campus Housing Cable TV 
Network has provided basic cable 
for students living on campus. 
Originally, HBO was offered to the 
residents at an extra cost. However,
because there were very few sub
scriptions, this option was eliminat
ed in May 1999. Last Tuesday, 
February 1, HMC premiered and 
began broadcasting movies on cam
pus channel 16. For the remainder 
of the Spring Semester, the orga
nizers of HMC plan on running the 
station as a pilot program. If the 
station gets enough positive feed
back from students, it will become 
a permanent part of the Campus 
Housing Cable TV Network.
So far student response has been 
positive. I like the new movie 
channel. It has enough variety, but 
it won't cost the students much,
said David Blackwood, a sopho
more industrial design major. "Its 
awesome. I got to see LA 
Confidential. Ive never seen that 
before, said Matt Filippone, a firstyear vocal major.
According to Anne Heist, a 
sophomore industrial design major 
and chair of the Campus Housing, 
SDC, AB, and Telecom committee, 
the first week of broadcast had a 
few kinks, but in the future the sta
tion will run more smoothly.
It works like this: we have 
agreed to purchase viewing rights 
for fourteen movies per month, 
See MOVIE, page 5
yd1Ah
eBays bullying does not go 
unnoticed. Thaddeus 
Biliman illustrates their 
hooligan tactics.
R4k5 & 
ERd1wc
Look for Pete Patterson's 
Final Four roundup in this 
weeks Full Court Press.
R4k5 LS
I1wc C 9pgprk
See The Frame's latest 
exhibit. Also check out 
the Miller Gallery, I2k, and 
Soundbytes.
R4k5 9L 
Esp5rs5 C M5s.rdtdk,
Learn about CMUs campus 
extension to Silicon Valley 
and more.
R4k5 9l
Nrw51w4prh5rw
Becca Fribush heads to 
Squirrel Hill for her next 
restaurant review.
R4k5 9T 
J4t5rn41
We've got to pray just to 
make it today.
R4k5 9Lf
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since lo6THE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 7. 2000
IRE+
Mrs. Clinton steps out on her own
National News
McCain, Bush 
tied in SC
WASHINGTON (AP)  Coming 
off a resounding victory in New 
Hampshire, John McCain has rallied 
from a 20-percentage point deficit 
in South Carolina and now is in sta
tistical draw with George W. Bush, 
said a Time/CNN poll released 
Saturday.
The Time/CNN survey was the 
fourth of the week to reflect a major 
bounce in South Carolina for 
McCain after Tuesdays New 
Hampshire primary, which he won 
with 48 percent of the vote, com
pared with 30 percent for Bush.
The latest poll found McCain the 
choice of 44 percent of likely 
Republican voters in the Feb. 19 pri
mary, compared with Bushs 40 per
cent. Given the polls 4.5 percent 
margin of error, the race is statisti
cally even.
McCain held healthy leads over 
Bush among moderates, military 
veterans and independents, who 
can vote in the GOP primary. Bush 
was favored by conservatives and 
regular party members.
Families mourn 
Alaskan Airline 
crash victims
MALIBU, Calif. (AP)  Dozens of 
surfers paddled out into the chilly 
Pacific waters Saturday to drop 
three flower wreaths near the site 
where Alaska Airlines Flight 261 
went down last week.
Along the shore at nearby 
Pepperdine University, friends and 
family members gathered to honor 
the 88 passengers and crew mem
bers who died in Mondays crash.World News
NEW YORK (AP)  The bright 
colors, fussy gowns, and everchanging coiffures are gone. 
Nowadays her hair is cut in a short 
and simple helmet, and she sticks 
to an all-black jacket and trousers 
 the ensemble of choice for New 
York power women.
Hillary Rodham Clinton has trad
ed in the first-lady look for what 
have become her combat fatigues in 
her battle to convince New Yorkers 
that she is one of them.
The battle begins in earnest on 
Sunday, not far from the house she 
recently bought in the New York 
City suburb of Chappaqua, when 
she officially launches her candida
cy for the U.S. Senate. From a hall 
at a state university campus, with 
husband Bill, daughter Chelsea, 
and her mother Dorothy by her 
side, she will formally step out of 
the shadow life of politicians 
spouse from Arkansas and into a 
political spotlight of her own;
She has already hit some pot
holes. She took heat for: sitting 
silently while Yassir Arafats wife 
accused the Israelis of poisoning 
Palestinians; failing to voice an 
opinion on the fate of 6-year-old 
Cuban boy Elian Gonzalez; promis
ing to march in a St. Patricks Day 
parade, apparently unaware that 
most Democratic officials shun the 
event because of its exclusion 
homosexuals.
One of her toughest challenges 
has been the accusation that shes a 
carpetbagger who moved to New 
York only because it has a vacancy 
for a Democratic Party candidate.
Her probable Republican oppo
nent, New York City Mayor 
Rudolph Giuliani, hasnt declared 
his.candidacy, but his term expires 
in two years, and he cannot run 
again.
Brooklyn-born Giuliani has won 
high marks from New Yorkers for 
cleaning up the city and bringing 
down crime rates. He can seem 
heavy-handed and vindictive, but 
his bluntness and fierce temper can 
seem refreshing compared to the 
first ladys measured style.When she visited New York dur
ing that fall of 1998, to help fellow 
Democrat Chuck Schumer in his 
run for U.S. Senate, audiences 
couldnt get enough of her. The 
crowd in one packed union hall 
went wild when she showed up; it 
felt more like a rock concert than a 
political rally. As the betrayed wife 
in the Monica Lewinsky scandal, 
she clearly had New Yorkers  and 
the nations  sympathy, and when 
rumors of a Senate run surfaced
and pollsters started to get interest
ed, some soundings put her 10 
points ahead of Giuliani.
Polls now have her almost neckand-neck with Giuliani, and he has 
stronger support among white 
women  women who, in the old 
days, would greet Clinton with 
chants of Run, Hillary, run. 
There is a question that haunts 
many people, acknowledges her 
campaign adviser, Harold Ickes. 
Why is she doing this? And who is 
she?
The clues to who she is lie deeply 
rooted in her childhood.
Born in 1947, the eldest of three, 
she was raised in the Chicago sub
urb of Park Ridge and has likened 
her family to that of the 1950s tele
vision sitcom Father Knows Best. 
Her mother was there every day 
when she came home for lunch; her 
father, who owned a drapery busi
ness, would kneel by his bed each 
night in prayer.
Her mother instilled in her the 
steely poise Americans so admired 
during the impeachment struggle. 
If young Bill Clintons defining 
moment was standing up to his vio
lent stepfather, little Hillarys was 
running home in tears to escape a 
neighborhood bully. Her mother 
sent her back out the door, saying: 
Theres no room for cowards in 
this house.
Later, a Methodist church youth 
group introduced her to the world 
beyond our all-white middle-class 
suburb. A teen-age Hillary baby
sat for migrant farm workers fami
lies and even shook hands with 
Martin Luther King Jr.  not long 
after her future husbands fabled 
meeting, as a young man, with 
President Kennedy.
This early faith-based activism 
had a lifelong impact. Be ye doers 
and not just hearers of the word, 
she intoned at several recent 
appearances, prompting one of her 
hosts to respond: Thank you, Rev. 
Clinton!
At Wellesley College, she was a 
campus leader who made front
page news in the Boston Globe with 
her commencement speech  a 
strident rebuttal to another speaker 
who derided 60s activism. At Yale 
Law School, she added a year to her 
studies to learn about child devel
opment, then worked as a staff 
attorney for the Childrens Defense 
Fund. Childrens issues, education 
and health remain her priorities 
and are themes of her Senate cam
paign.
She spent 1974 working for the 
House Judiciary Committee
researching the constitutional j 
grounds for impeaching President 
Nixon. She then rejected a promis
ing legal career in the Capitol and 
moved to Arkansas to marry Bill 
Clinton, whom she had met at Yale. 
Yet she remained committed to her 
own career. She kept her job at a 
law firm while serving as Arkansas 
first lady, and took just four months 
off from work when Chelsea, now 
19, was born.
Her biggest achievement in 
Arkansas public life was reforming 
the states schools, including rais
ing salaries and per-pupil spending, 
and instituting competency tests for 
teachers and students. As chair
woman of the Arkansas Education 
Standards Committee, she went to 
each of the states 75 counties, held 
hearings, shepherded debates, and 
came away with new standards 
that, accompanied by a tax hike, led 
to the changes.
In contrast, her effort in 
Washington to overhaul the coun
trys health care  a job entrusted 
to her by her husband  was a dis
mal failure.
There were other humiliations in 
Washington too. After records from 
the Whitewater scandal mysteri
ously appeared in the White House, 
Hillary Clinton became the first 
presidents wife to testify before a 
grand jury. But her popularity 
soared during the impeachment 
drama, with two-thirds of 
Americans saying they approved of 
her brave smile and the way she sol
diered on.
Now, as she reinvents herself for 
the next phase in her political life 
 declaring herself a Yankees fan, 
strolling the beach on Long Island, 
quoting the Bibid in a Harlem 
church and chatting about dairy 
farms and droughts upstate  she 
is discovering the huge difference 
between life inside the Beltway and 
the rambunctious world of New 
York politics.
Already, the Republican knives 
are out for this ultra-liberal, carpet-bagging opportunist, as one 
conservative mailing puts it, and 
the question of the first ladys Noo 
Yawk credentials is bound to resur
face throughout the campaign.
But there are compensations, as 
the writer Nora Ephron noted at a 
Manhattan luncheon honoring 
Today host Katie Couric.
You can run, Ephron told the 
first lady. You can live here. And 
you will never have to wear a 
turquoise jacket again.
Chinese celebrate 
year of dragon
TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP)  Eye-stinging clouds of incense wafted 
through Taiwanese temples 
Saturday, as waves of bowing wor
shippers welcomed in the Dragon 
Year  one of the luckiest in the 12- 
year Chinese zodiac.
Chinese in major cities through
out Asia celebrated the Lunar New 
Year with crackling fireworks, drag
on dances, acrobats and parades.
In Indonesia, the ethnic Chinese 
minority held New Year celebrations 
in public for the first time since they 
were blamed for a bloody but 
abortive communist coup in 1965.
Hundreds burned incense offer
ings Saturday at the 450-year-old 
Vihara Dharma Bhakti temple in 
Jakarta, and dragon dances and 
Beijing opera performances were 
held in other parts of the city.
Hong Kong celebrated with a 
parade that included a dozen vin
tage Rolls-Royce and Bentleys and a 
mainland Chinese float  the first 
one to join the annual display since 
the former British colony returned 
to Chinese rule in 1997.
The Dragon Year is special for 
Chinese, many of whom call them
selves the dragons descendants. 
In ancient times, emperors regarded 
themselves as reincarnations of 
dragons, and children born during 
the year were considered blessed.
In China, Beijings normally 
bustling streets were empty and 
quiet, as many who had welcomed 
the New Year with fireworks, spent 
Saturday at home or visiting close 
relatives.
Celebrations were held in other
parts of the world as well. In New 
York, thousands of revelers crowded 
Chinatown on Saturday as dancing 
dragons snaked through the streets 
and staccato percussion pulsated.
The Empire State Building was 
bathed in red and gold lights Friday 
night for the holiday and a swirling. 
50-foot long, red and yellow dragon 
snaked its way around the famed 
New York monoliths observatory 
Friday.
20.000 angry 
citizens protest 
French oil spill
NANTES, France (AP)  About
20.000 demonstrators gathered in 
the northwest French city of Nantes 
on Saturday to show their anger 
over a two-month-old oil spill that 
has contaminated the country's 
Atlantic coastline.
Environmental activists and 
ocean specialists were among those 
protesting the ecological damage 
caused after the Maltese-registered 
Erika tanker split in two in rough 
waters December 12, spilling 3 mil
lion gallons of heavy oil.The chairman of the FrancoBelgian oil company TotalFina, 
which chartered the tanker, was a 
frequent target of the  crowds 
shouts and slogans.
TotalFina Chairman Thierry 
Desmarest has said the company 
would spend about $108 million to 
clean the coasts and pump out the 
oil remaining in the sunken tanker.
The 24-year-old vessel was trans
porting oil from Rotterdam in the 
Netherlands to Leghorn, Italy. The 
two halves of the ship, still under
water, contain about 6 million galWooden crosses and flowers have 
been left in the sand as memorials.
While family members mourned, 
Navy crews were continuing to map 
the airplanes wreckage 640 feet 
below the surface, using a sonar 
device aboard the deep-diving robot 
that recovered the flight data and 
cockpit voice recorders.
NTSB official John 
Hammerschmidt said no decision 
has been made about how much of 
the wreckage would be recovered 
from the Santa Barbara Channel 
where the jet crashed, about 10 
miles offshore.
Four bodies have been recovered 
so far, and authorities believe more 
may be trapped beneath debris.
After the crash site is mapped, 
robots like the one that salvaged the 
planes flight recorders will eventu
ally be sent down to help retrieve 
bodies.
Ions of heavy oil, and some of it has 
seeped out.
Saturday's protests came on the 
same day the French food safety 
agency, AFSSA, said Atlantic 
seafood on the market was without 
risk, lifting controls put in place 
after the spill.
More than 900 shellfish farms 
have been closed along the coast 
since the accident.
A preliminary report on the spill 
by the Bureau of Inquiries into Sea 
Accidents said the tankers structure 
was probably faulty, causing it to 
break apart.
Peru may soon 
transfer United 
States prisoner
LIMA, Peru (AP)  An American 
woman convicted and imprisoned in 
Peru for aiding leftist rebels might 
be allowed to serve her time in the 
United States, the countrys prime 
minister said Friday.
New York native Lori Berenson, 
30, has been held for four years in 
Peruvian prisons following her trea
son conviction in 1996.
A military judge convicted 
Berenson of treason for helping to 
lead a thwarted assault on Perus 
Congress by leftist Tupac Amaru 
Revolutionary Movement rebels.
Berensons supporters have 
argued that her treason conviction 
was illegal because she is not a 
Peruvian citizen.
The 30-year-old New York native 
and her family say she did not 
receive a fair trial in the secretive 
military court.
Corrections & Clarifications
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error; please contact Editor-in-Chief Ish Harshawat at 
x8-2111 or tartan @andrew.cmu.edu.
CYBERSCH00LSq5m" Srn Nnpwpdr 4g4pt4it5 oUSfff
The future of education...
Help your future students go the distance through online education 
Master the education tools that cut costs and build minds 
3 million students will enroll in online courses this year
...is it leaving you behind? 
cyberschools by Glenn R. Jones -
founder and CEO of Jones International University: The University of the Web.
Get it before you get left behind
JHNvEJPP9E An Education Renaissance 
EHq LOVV-lffO&TOl D xLlB'-
1-800-525-7002 x8489 
Order advance copies through your campus bookstore or Internet book retailer!
Corner Office or Drive-Through Window...
Jump to the top of the corporate ladder by learning the new secret of 
business success (even your future employer doesn't know about it)
BBFBm.515 pc ,dA1 n5k155 kdprk wd w4u5 ,dAG
FREE MARKET FUSION
The business model for the millennium that makes the bottom line while making a difference - 
unveiled by Glenn R. Jones who turned a $400 loan against his 1967 VW into one 
of the ten largest cable TV provider companies in the US.
ON THE WEB... 
VirtualRatings.com
This site lets students give their professors a grade on how well they teach. Highly recommended!
Definitely Check This Out
Network Elements, Inc.
enabling the Next Generation Internet
We Ye Growing. Are You?
ATTENTION:
Network / Protocol Architects 
Electronic Design Engineers 
Embedded Software Designers
Info Session: February 7th 
Interviews: February 8th
ISBN 1-885400-68-3 
$14.95
Order from vour campus bookstore or Internet book retailer.www. n etwo r ke I e m e nts. co m

---------------------------------------------------

1 campus,1 car, 100 entries* winner drives
!wi * ^ '
PARTY LOCATION: 
PITTSBURGH DELI COMPANY 
THURSDAY, FEB 10TH
7:00-9:00 PM
ALL CS + CE MAJORS 
ARE WELCOME. BE SURE 
TO BE THERE, YOU MUST 
BE PRESENT TO WIN.
Computer Science & Computer Engineering majors, some
one in your department is going to drive away from this 
in a brand new BMW 323Ci coupe. Why shouldn't it be 
you? AIL you need to do is submit your resume with 
ColLegeHire.com and take our C++ and Java tests by 
02/07/00. (That is tonight, by midnight.) The top 50 scores 
in each test category, wiLL be entered into one drawing to 
win either a BMW 323Ci coupe, a Stacked, Multiple 
Machine, Software Development Environment or 
$25,000.00 straight cash if you would prefer.
We wiLL draw a winner from your CMU's entrants, so 
your worst odds are one in one hundred. Once you've reg
istered, give us a chance to find you an opportunity. Odds 
are we can find you a great one.
To submit your resume and indicate your interest, visit 
www.collegehire.com/big_reward or for more informa
tion contact your schooL's campus consuLtant at 
kacy@coLLegehire.com.
8 CollegeHire.com
RETHINK YOUR JOB SEARCH
BMW 323C Coupe features:
 Driver, Passenger and Side 
Airbags 
ABS Brakes 
Traction Control 
Air Conditioning
 Power Windows and Door Locks 
Tilt Steering Wheel
 Cruise Control
 FM Radio/Cassette Player/CD 
Player
 Alloy Wheels 
Full-Size Spare Tire
(est. value $25,000.00)
Sweepstakes Rules
 Only CS/CE majors are eligible.
 Must be a PhD., Master's 
Candidate, Senior or Junior.
 Must choose prize upon entering. 
Winner must be present at schools 
drawing event.
 C++ and Java are required test.
 Each test is worth up to 1 entry. 
Limit 2 entries.
 Resume must be complete & accu
rate.
 1 week deadline for completion of 
tests.
 Only entrants from this school can 
enter this school's drawing.
 No Purchase Necessary.
For official rules on this sweep
stakes, email 
rules@collegehire.com.
co-sponsored byTRILOGY
2000 CollegeHire.com. CollegeHire.com and Ihe CollegeHire.com logo are trademarks of CollegeHire.com. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

---------------------------------------------------

I
I
II
II
%
!*i!
I?
i154u on through
i
\y
Microsoft Days at CMUU
2/7: Microsoft Presentation and technologies
'rom 7-9pm in Scai'e Hall room 125
2/8: The challenges of developing Active Directory
'rom 7-9pm in Scai'e Hall room 125 
2/9: Microsoft Tech Talk
'rom 7-9pm in Scai'e Hall room 125
Free food!!
Come for your chance to win a Dreamcast, Hand Held PC, 
Age of Empires II, Word 2000 and more!!!
Microsoft

www.microsoft.com/college

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 7, 2000
SARC connects students and alumni
SLICE, from page 1 
done around food. The response for 
it was very good. We had 40-50 
people who responded to that, said 
Joanna Peters, a senior in ethics his
tory and public policy, who is also 
responsible for organizing the Slice 
of Life.
Investing 101 was presented by 
Alex Condron, vice president of 
Drew Management Corporation. He 
graduated from CMU in 1989 with a 
degree in Industrial Management 
(IM). He spoke about how to invest 
money once a graduate has gained 
full-time employment. He empha
sized the importance of investing 
early in an individuals career. 
"Getting started is the toughest job, 
said Condron. There is a lot of 
information out there to sort 
through. The most difficult first step 
is budgeting, that is, understanding 
how much you are able to save each 
month and sticking to the game 
plan.
Stretching Your Paycheck was 
presented by Lorraine Wiegman, a
registered Principal Representative 
of World Marketing Alliance and 
WMA Securities and a 1960 CMU 
graduate. She is now an indepen
dent contractor with World 
Marketing Alliance and WMA 
Securities.
Wiegman grew up in a wealthy 
family. My dad paid cash for me to 
go to [CMU]. From 1956 to 1960, it 
was $2,000 a year. But my father 
didnt know what I learned the hard 
way. My daughters college educa
tion money is sitting in the attic in 
Barbie doll clothes, said Wiegman. 
She said that when one of her 
daughters needed $40, she had to 
give up drinking 4 cans of coke per 
day to save the money. Dont drink 
coke, dont get fat, dont rot your 
teeth, and save $40 dollars a 
month. If you really want to save 
money, take an empty coke can, fill 
it half way with sugar, top it up with 
water and drink it. Wiegman buys 
her clothes at Goodwill stores. She 
gets all her furniture from road 
trash. She said that if you stick to
neutral colors, you can wear the 
same thing all week and no one will 
know. She emphasized that being 
frugal is important when students 
are first starting to work.
The last event for the Slice of Life 
Conference was the Etiquette 
Dinner, which was held in Schatz 
and attended by approximately 60 
students. The dinner was hosted by 
Christine S. Ferguson, an IM alum
na from the class of 1982.
Ferguson said that etiquette is 
very useful in job interviews. While 
many universities offer the same 
quality of education, students who 
go to Ivy League universities are 
noted by prospective employers as 
being the best-mannered. Students 
at the dinner also had a chance to 
speak to alumni about their jobs 
and ask for advice about job search
ing.
SARC works on campus to pro
mote interactions between students 
and alumni and to strengthen and 
build lasting ties with the 
University.
SDC, Housing offer new movie channel
MOVIE,'from page 1
which we are showing in weekly
groups of 5 or 6, said Tim Michael,
director of Housing Services, These
5 or 6 will rotate through channel
16 twenty-four hours per day on a
schedule.
According to Heist, movies are 
chosen based on weekly and month
ly themes. For example, this week, 
the channel will play The Wood for
Black History Month, and 
Shakespeare in Love for Valentines 
Day. HMC movies are currently list
ed on channel 3 on campus cable as 
well as on a blue screen between 
movies on the channel itself. 
Eventually, said Heist, posters will 
delineate monthly schedules and 
times for the station.
In a few weeks there will be 
posters and advertisements for the 
channel, along with the monthly
schedules. However, Housing has 
already begun mailing campus resi
dents about the new addition. 
Though the future of HMC is still 
unclear, there are several ideas 
being discussed.
The evolution of the channel 
[may] include future advertising 
and other films created by stu
dents, said Michael.
Heist is currently collecting sug
gestions for future movie selection.
Crime and Incident Report
2/3 SUSPICIOUS PERSON, 
11:35 am  A student phoned 
Student Life to report a possible 
scam in Baker Hall. A white male, 
approximately 28 years of age, with 
very blonde hair and wearing all 
black clothing, was offering mas
sages and hair care products. A 
check of the building by Campus 
Police proved negative.
2/3 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 
11:52 pm  Campus Police 
received a call stating that there was 
a group of six males throwing snow
balls at the windows of West Wing, 
and two officers responded. The 
officers observed students throwing 
snowballs through the goalposts of 
Gesling Stadium. When asked, the 
individuals said that they had not. 
Over 20 snowball pelts were found 
on the wall and several windows. 
The individuals then admitted to 
throwing the snowballs in an 
attempt to get the attention of one 
of the residents. All of the students 
will be issued internal citations for 
Criminal Mischief, and were 
advised not to throw snowballs at 
university buildings.
2/4 SUSPICIOUS PERSON, 
5:48 am  A faculty member in 
GSIA called Campus Police to report 
a suspicious white male, mid-20s, 
with blonde hair, and wearing a 
green coat. The faculty member 
passed the male in the hallway, and 
said hello. The male said nothing, 
and continued walking. A similar 
incident was investigated the previ
ous week, describing a similar male.
2/4 MEDICAL ESCORT, 5:05
pm  Campus Police responded to 
Forbes House for a medical call. The 
victim stated that he was horseplaying in the stairwell, and got hit 
in the face with a bucket. The stu
dent was transported to a hospital, 
for treatment of a three-inch scratch 
on his face.
2/4 INSTITUTIONAL VAN
DALISM, 5:54 pm  Several 
males in suits and ties were reported 
to have vandalized several light fix
tures throughout the B tower of 
Hamerschlag House.
2/5 OPEN CONTAINER, 
12:26 am  An unknown male
was observed standing in the frater
nity quad holding what appeared to 
be a beer can. The male was also 
seen taking numerous drinks from 
said can. The actor was identified as 
being over 21 years of age. Campus 
Police issued him a CMU internal 
citation for having an open contain
er of alcohol. The can of beer in 
question was poured out.
 Campus Chief of Police James Lapaglia reviews all reports prior to release.
 Only three people on The Tartan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and the staffwriter typing the report. All personal names of complainants, victims, suspects, and fraternities are omitted from the printed report. Ethnic descriptions and other personal details are given only in the context of complete descriptions.
 Not every incident that occurs appears in the report.
Compiled by 
Kristine Andreassen
Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences (PGSS)
Undergraduate summer employment at Carnegie Mellon University is 
available with the Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences. 
The PGSS is a five-week summer school for extremely talented high 
school students from Pennsylvania. Teaching Assistant/Counselor 
appointments are available in the areas of biology, chemistry, physics, 
computer science and mathematics.
Applicants should have finished their sophomore year by the start of 
the program. Preference will be given to applicants with outstanding 
academic records. You will be expected to serve as dormitory coun
selor, to live in the same dormitory as the PGSS students, see that the 
PGSS disciplinary rules are adhered to, provide tutorial help in the 
academic program, and conduct program and social activities.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $2,000 
Free room is provided as well as a $250 food allowance. 
PGSS is in session from June 25 to July 29.
Counselor duties begin June 21, end July 30.
Applications are available in Mellon Institute 418 at
Rotaract contributes to community
Matt Brun/Special Projects Manager
Approximately 15 Rotaract club mem
bers worked together to navigate the 
Shadyside area and collect food.
ROTARACT, from page 1 
build a strong foundation before 
the club grows throughout cam
pus, said Cheung. He also com
mented about the need to be real
istic about this organization in 
regard to time commitment. I 
see people committing about 
twenty minutes per week because 
I know everyone has limited 
time, said Cheung.Although the Rotaract Club is 
still waiting to receive official 
approval as a campus organiza
tion, it has already delved into 
community projects. The group is 
now working on a project called 
the Homeless Initiative through 
Shadyside, which is a two-part 
process. It began Saturday, 
January 29 when about 15 volun
teers spread out in Shadyside to 
distribute flyers attached to a bag 
to collect food an0 clothing for 
Pittsburghs homeless. On the 
following Saturday, about 20 stu
dents and four or five Rotarians 
from the community collected 
those bags.
In addition to service projects, 
these new Rotarians are seeking
increased participation. Our 
goal is to network this program 
and even permeate through other 
colleges in the area, said 
Cheung. This is the reason why a 
few of the members are speaking 
at Chatham College in February.
The next step for our organiza
tion is to increase membership 
and to continue the development 
of service activities for the com
munity, said Bryan Meyer, a 
senior in electrical and computer 
engineering, who got involved 
with Rotary during a co-op in 
spring semester of 1999. Once he 
came back from the co-op, he 
contacted the Rotary governor of 
the Pittsburgh area, and working 
with him and a few other stu
dents, he managed to stimulate 
enough energy to get their first 
project accomplished.
This local chapter is based on a 
larger organization of approxi
mately 1.2 million people in 161 
countries. The service organiza
tion has members ranging from 
high school and college students 
to active adult business leaders.
Activities fee increases for inflation
SENATE, from page 1
According to Ditterline, Murphys 
office provided Senate with 
$16,000 to adjust for inflation last 
year. Since Murphy would not be 
offering this money again, 
Ditterline told the Senators that 
failing to approve the increase 
would therefore result in a notice
able decline in the purchasing 
power of the amount Senate has to 
distribute.
Debate at the Senate meeting 
included questions regarding the 
necessity of the adjustment. 
Supporters of the adjustment con
tinuously reminded fellow 
Senators that this change should 
not be considered as an increase, 
but rather as an economic adjust
ment. Some mentioned that they 
felt that the increase seemed too 
high at a time when inflation is at 
remarkably low levels. Others said 
that the adjustment is not neces
sary since Senate does not spend all 
of the money it takes in currendy. 
There was also some discussion as 
to whether discussion was even 
necessary since some Senators 
believed the change was mandated 
by their bylaws.
Student Body Treasurer (SBT) 
Dave Liber, a junior ethics, history, 
and public policy major, spoke 
against the change at Thursdays 
meeting. While the SBT is permit
ted to speak at Senate meetings, 
the position does not carry voting 
power in that setting.
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Student Senate chair Pat Ditterline discussed the need to increase the stu
dent activies fee due to inflation at the Senate meeting last Thursday.
I believe the increase could 
have been put off for at least 
another year, because I do not 
believe we feel the effects of infla
tion that the CPI records. The CPI 
is an economic basket that mea
sures items that, for the most part, 
Student Government does not 
allocate money [for], said Liber. 
I think that through better 
accounting and financial responsi
bility we could have operated at 
the same level we have in the past 
two years [1998-1999, and 
1999-2000] without having raised 
the activities fee for 2000-2001, 
he said.
Liber said that an adjustment for 
inflation should be to allow
Student Government to continue 
operating at the same level, not to 
do more. Liber said that he believes 
this latest change is more of an 
increase-allowing expansion than 
merely an adjustment.
When asked if the adjustment. 
would be proportionally distrib
uted to student organizations to 
which Student Government alio-:   
cates money, Liber said that if an^' 
organization came to Senate with** 
exactly the same budget as they  
did the previous year, they; 
should expect an increase. Hei 
said, however, that in practice,-: 
organization budgets vary yearly 
due to membership and other-.'; 
factors.
PAT continues to service CMU students
PAT, from page 1
percent and they have already 
agreed upon having no increase for 
the coming year.
I am happy with the agreement 
and have heard very positive com
ments from students, faculty and 
staff. There have been some issues 
with buses heading east being over
crowded, especially around 5-6 pm 
weekdays, and PAT has been work
ing to resolve that, said Murphy.
I actually dont think the crowds 
have been a problem. The only time 
I find overcrowding on the buses is 
at rush hour, and I expect that, said 
Katherine Harris, a junior in busi
ness administration.
Other students seemed to agree 
that overcrowding wasnt a prob
lem, but that frequency was a diffi
culty. I dont think they are overcrowded, but they should run more 
frequently. I think that PAT needs to 
prepare for the large numbers of 
people riding the buses by getting 
better buses. Ive been on three this 
year that have broken down, said 
Justin Dawber, a first-year physics 
major.The buses need to run more fre
quently, especially on the week
ends. Im tired of the buses passing 
me at the bus stop because the bus 
is too full for me to ride, said Julie 
Watt, a first-year undecided H&SS 
student.
Don Bell, the Chief Operations 
Manager at PAT, said that they are 
working to monitor the routes 
around CMU and watch for over
crowding. We are very hopeful and 
think the agreement is pretty 
strong. We just need to keep moni
toring it, said Bell.
Murphy said that student reac
tion has been mostly positive. At 
first, there were concerns from 
some students about being forced 
to pay for the service even though 
they werent planning on riding the 
buses. I think everyone ultimately 
understands that a fee across the 
board is the only reasonable way to 
administer the program. The fact 
that we have been able to negotiate 
such a reasonable fee has been a big 
part of this working, said Murphy.
Bell said that PAT has similar 
deals with several other Pittsburgh 
area colleges. He said that after talk
ing to CMU for several years they 
were able to negotiate a deal struc
tured much the same way as the 
others. Murphy said it took around 
10 years to agree on a rate that 
would be reasonable to take to the 
students for approval.
Acapulco 
Cancn Jamaica 
Bahamas Cruises Florida 
Europe
_ STUDENT
diKSi&s 
1-800-648-4849www.ststravel.com
SELL TRIPS 
EARN CASH 
GO FREE!!!
! > ri I * i tjjj  t i i 
iti  4L i

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
7 February 2000THE TARTANge 6
Improved campus services 
will benefit students
After several years of delays, Dining 
Services is now ready to implement a 
much-needed revision and addition to 
the Dine Xpress, Dine Xtra, and Campus 
Xpress system. If all goes as planned, stu
dents will benefit greatly from the 
reforms, which include adding vendors 
and changing the first-year student meal 
plan.
Dining Services deserves credit for 
finally addressing these issues. In 1997, 
representatives from student govern
ment and the administration reported 
that expansions would be made within 
one year. Three years later, the campus 
still awaits these changes. Dining 
Services must make every effort to make 
sure that they follow through this time, 
and the administration must step up its 
efforts by making identification cards 
increasingly useful for students.
More dining options are now available 
for students on campus with new ven
dors in Newell-Simon Hall. The 
Underground also now provides a way 
for students in and around Morewood 
Gardens to easily get food. However, stu
dents should be able to use their cards at 
several off-campus locations as well.
To answer this need, Dining Services is 
planning on expanding the use of Dine 
Xpress, Dine Xtra, and Campus Xpress to 
Subway, The Original Hot Dog Shop in 
Oakland, and Eat N Park. Also, the new 
delivery service at the "0 will be conve
nient for students who dont have the
time to go out to eat. Once these addi
tions are implemented, other off-campus 
vendors should be added more frequent
ly than in the past.
Campus Xpress provides a valuable 
service to students that use it. Those liv
ing off campus find this program espe
cially useful since it makes careful bud
geting easier. Students also feel less need 
to carry lots of cash. However, the pro
gram could be improved if the entire 
campus accepted it. Imagine allowing 
students to use Campus Xpress for oncampus parking, laundry machines, 
vending machines, library fines, and 
photocopies.
Finally, Dining Services is also plan
ning on logistically changing the firstyear meal plan. In the near future, block 
meals and Dine Xtra ought to roll over 
from week to week, and ideally from 
semester to semester. Also, although 
pizza delivery acceptance of Dine Xtra is 
useful, it would be a great boost to stu
dents selection if other local delivery 
services, like Chinese delivery, accepted 
it. Finally, the Grab-and-Go should be 
altered to offer more of a selection to stu
dents who want healthy snacks.
Dining Services is finally responding to 
student needs, and once implemented, 
their reforms will be effective. However, 
they ought to respond more quickly to 
the demands of the students whom they 
serve in the future, and continue to 
expand upon their service.
Movie channel provides 
residents with more choice
Last week, on-campus residents wit
nessed the initiation of a new movie 
channel dedicated to various films of 
interest to CMU students. The project, 
a joint effort between Housing Servi'ces 
and the Student Dormitory Council 
(SDC), is an admirable effort, bringing 
. increased choices in entertainment to 
students residing on campus.
The Housing Movie Channel (HMC)
- on channel 16 is currently available 
from 6 pm to 3 am each evening, and 
will eventually be broadcast 24 hours a
 day. Last year, HBO was eliminated 
from the cable lineup because of a lack
1 of subscriptions. The HMC is a smart 
; solution to the lack of movies on the 
on-campus cable network.
The HMC will provide an inexpensive 
alternative to national movie channels, 
" which do not always carry films that 
appeal to CMU students. Furthermore, 
SDC has a proven track record of bring
ing films to campus that students are 
interested in seeing. This is achieved by 
involving several students in its movie 
selection committee.
SDC will coordinate the HMC with 
their current offerings in McConomy 
Auditorium by screening movies relat
ed to the main Saturday night fea
tures. For example, when the most 
recent James Bond movie, The World 
is Not Enough, comes to campus later 
this semester, SDC plans to show a
variety of the older Bond movies on 
the evenings preceding their 
McConomy screening. Another pro
posed idea that should be implement
ed is coordinating HMC movies with 
on-campus events, such as Black 
History Month.
While the HMC is an innovative idea, 
SDC must extend the success that it has 
had with Saturday movie nights to the 
new channel. Because national movie 
channels are not available on the CMU 
cable lineup, SDC must make sure that 
HMC meets the needs of on-campus 
residents. This means that SDC must 
make sure that its movie selection 
process is fair and inclusive of all stu
dents who wish to participate. Such 
means for ensuring accurate represen
tation might include a Web site where 
students can easily submit movie 
requests, and viewers choice polls with 
movies that Saturday-night movie
goers could select from.
SDCs new channel is truly an effort 
to be applauded. It will afford students 
an opportunity to bypass much of the 
content on national movie channels 
that is outside their scope of interest, 
while saving money on expensive 
movie channels. Students should 
actively participate in the shaping of 
this new channel during its trial period 
to ensure that it remains viable com
pared to the national movie channels.
THE TARTAN
Cambe Mellon 's Student Newspaper Since 1906 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ISH HARSHAWAT, 
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor 
SARA STILLE, News Editor* 
CHRISTOPHER MAY, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor* 
JOANNA SMILEY, Arts & Living Editor* 
SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed. 
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor*
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JEN LIU, Advertising Manager*
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager
*Denotes acting editor or manager.
Editor-in-Chief
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Co-Production Manager* 
CHRIS MESSINA, Co-Production Manager* 
JONATHAN PEARCE, Systems Manager* 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager*
MATT BRUN, Special Projects Manager 
ASEEM GUPTA, Webmaster 
LAINE TOWEY, Assistant News Editor 
BRADLEY FEARN, Assistant Ad. Manager
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Kristine Andreassen, Kevin Babbitt, Elaine Boland, 
Anthony Chao, Behnam Farahpour, Rebecca 
Fribush, Cassandra Knight, Lorelei Laird, Lisette 
Miller-Dixon, Anne Ray, Brian Smith, Nathan 
Steinwald
Letters to the EditorH&SS vendor disappears
Editor:
Im very excited about the new menu 
options available to students this semester. 
Yet, Im confused. Baker/Porter Hall used 
to have a vendor, first at the entrance of 
Baker Hall, then in the basement of Porter
Hall. The vendor mysteriously disappeared 
several semesters ago.
I thought that the school would replace 
this vendor, as the majority of H&SS stu
dents spend a great deal of time in those 
two buildings. However, even with recent 
additions of vendors on campus, 
Baker/Porter Hall has been ignored. Its
Justin Sulssa/Art Edita
just another example of how H&SS stu
dents get pushed to the background at this 
institution.
Sincerely,
Christine Tarbet 
Senior 
English
eBay attempts to flatten upstart sites
Thaddeus Billman
How do you think our constitutional 
fathers envisioned the right to free speech? 
Do you think they would approve of some
one expressing their dissatisfaction with a 
powerful company? Do you think they 
would allow the use of a trademarked 
name in a criticism of such a company? Do 
you think they would allow someone to 
show why a companys competitors are 
superior to said company? Well, if you ask 
the famous online auction house, eBay 
Inc., their answer would be a resounding
is meant by dilution. Clearly a domain such 
as eBayhaters.com is not very similar to 
eBay.com, nor does it cause dilution in any 
fashion.
Even assuming that the domain violates 
this first clause, eBay would still have to 
prove bad faith. Basically, they would 
have to prove the registration of the 
domain was done to profit from eBays 
trademark. In deciding such a case the 
court would examine the following ques
tions: Is the domain used to market goods 
confusingly similar to eBays?. Is the 
domain used for commercial purposes? Is 
the domain designed to take advantage of 
customer error? Has the owner tried to sell 
the domain to a third party? Has the regis
trar attempted to hide his or identity by 
providing false information? Does the 
domains owner have a history of register
ing confusingly similar domain names?
Clearly, stating ones personal opinion 
about eBay is not commercial use. The site 
cannot take advantage of customer error,
Thats right; eBay has recently sent 
cease-and-desist letters to an unknown 
number of sites that are using their trade
mark to criticize them. Owners of sites such 
as eBayhaters.com are being attacked 
under federal law prohibiting 
trademark infringement. eBay has 
warned these people that they 
are in violation of their trademark 
by having the letters eBay in 
their domain and that they are 
subject to a fine of up to $100,000
demandsnot c9inply ^eBay,s threatening to beat up anyone
Does eBay have a case? Lets wJlO SVedks against YOU. 
look at the trademark law to find  ^
eBays actions can be likened 
to hiring a group of thugs 
armed with baseball bats and
out. In the fall of 1999, congress 
passed a bill prohibiting cyber-squatting, 
that is, registering a domain that is also a 
trademarked word with the intent of sell
ing it for a profit. This bill extends the exist
ing trademark law, making it clear that 
domain names are also subject to trade
mark laws. In order for a particular domain 
to be illegal under the law, a person must 
register it in bad faith, which will be 
explained shortly, and the domain must 
either be identical or very similar to an 
existing mark or cause dilution. A sample 
case of dilution would be where someone 
registered eBaytoys.com. Although eBay 
does not actually sell toys, it could be rea
sonably argued that such a site would neg
atively effect the value of eBays trademark 
by causing market confusion. This is what
as no one could reasonably think that 
eBayhaters.com is the official site of eBay, 
Inc. The other questions would likely favor 
the current owner as well.
Examination of the laws shows that eBay 
has no legitimate case. Indeed, it seems 
that even eBay realizes this fact. There are 
over 200 registered domains that contain 
the word eBay, yet only a select few have 
been targeted. The owner of 
eBaysucks.com, for example, has not been 
contacted. So why would eBay attack some 
sites and not others? The answer is simple: 
they are only attacking those who they per
ceive as being weak. They hope that the 
owners of the domains, whose resources 
are quite limited compared to those of 
eBay, will just give up rather than risk legal
action.
eBay is not the first company to try such 
a threat. AOL threatened the famed aolsucks.org but quickly backed down when it 
became clear the owner was prepared to 
fight. Netscape threatened the owner ol 
netscapesucks.com, but neglected to pursue 
legal action. Not to mention the countless 
others who simply gave in to the corpora
tions demands. Indeed, such threats are 
quite common. Speaking on the Netscape 
case, Michael Calvery of the law firm 
Armon & Sabatini, remarked It is a bull) 
tactic, theyre really off-base in terms ol 
trademark law. 
eBays case is so weak that they coulc 
theoretically be counter-sued for harass
ment. Threatening your opponent is uneth 
ical and illegal. eBays actions can be 
likened to hiring a group of thugs armec 
with baseball bats and threatening to beat 
up anyone who speaks against you. The 
only difference is, instead of thugs, eBa) 
has hired lawyers, and instead of basebal
 bats, they are armed with lawsuits 
Whether they actually intend to file the 
suit is irrelevant, just as the thugs inten 
tions not to actually beat anyone up 
would be.
There is almost zero chance of eBay pur 
suing the case, now that the owner o 
eBayhaters.com has vowed to fight for his 
right of free speech. eBay is sure to lose 
any legal battle and the PR would be ter 
rible. Indeed, the press should Cane
- hopefully will) denounce eBay for its 
attempts to coerce its opponents into 
silence.
eBays actions are unjustifiable 
immoral, and illegal. Buyers and sellers 
alike should be outraged by eBays actions 
and should send a clear message that they 
will not tolerate such actions. I urge you to 
boycott eBay; do. not sell anything on their 
site or buy anything from it. Furthermore, 
encourage you to send an email to support@eBay.com expressing your disap 
proval of their actions. At the very least 
you should sign the petition found a 
http://www. eBayhaters. com.
Thaddeus Billman believes that he 
always right; however, he welcomes all red 
sonable attempts to prove otherwise.
Supreme Court upholds state finance laws
Christopher May
On January 24th, the Supreme Court 
ruled on the single most important issue in 
a capitalist society: money. More specifical
ly, a recent 6-3 vote of the high court said 
that states may limit campaign contribu
tions near the level set for federal candi
dates. This ruling is another step forward 
in the struggle against the dollars influ
ence in American politics.
The 1974 Federal Election Campaign Act 
(FECA) established campaign contribution 
limits in response to the abuses of the 1972 
Nixon re-election campaign. The limits 
were set at $1000 for an individual per candidate per election, $20,000 to party com
mittees per committee per year, and 
$5,000 to Political Action Committees 
(PAC) per committee per year. The idea 
behind absolute limits was to reduce the 
amount that the very wealthy could influ
ence politicians, as well as to reassure the 
public that their leaders were now less like
ly to be bought.
In the 1976 case Buckley vs. Valeo; the 
Supreme Court overturned parts of FECA. 
They declared the following clauses must 
be added to the law to make it constitution
al: individuals can spend unlimited 
amounts on their own campaign, individu
als can spend unlimited amount on behalf 
of, but independent of a given candidate, 
and individuals can give unlimited 
amounts of soft money to national party 
committees for party building activities 
and get out the vote campaigns. The idea
behind this was that in its original form 
FECA violated the free speech condition 
of the first amendment.
The recent case was opposed by Justices 
Anthony Kennedy, Clarence Thomas, and 
Antonin Scalia. Speaking for the dissent, 
Justice Kennedy said, The courts decision 
has lasting consequences for political 
speech in the course of elections, the 
speech upon which democracy depends. 
His reasoning here is severely flawed.
Democracy simply does not depend on 
the ability to make individual campaign 
contributions above $1000. According t 
the U.S. census bureau, the median income 
of America in 1998 was $38,885. How lim
iting campaign contributions to one forti
eth the pre-tax income of an average 
American can limit democratic speech, I d 
not know. Certainly those who feel conSee FINANCE, Page'

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 7. 20007

Court rules 
for reforms
FINANCE from page 6 
strained by the limit on individual 
contributions can contribute to the 
party or the PAC.
Justice Thomas, in a separate dis
sent; wrote, Contributions to politi
cal campaigns generate essential 
political speech. And contribution 
caps, which place a direct and sub
stantial limit on core speech, should 
be met with the utmost skepticism.
If large campaign contributions 
are core speech then this speech is 
not within the reach of almost all of 
American citizens. This is a disturb
ing conclusion for Justice Thomas to 
reach, and rather than showing the 
issues of contribution caps, it high
lights their necessity, in that it is the 
governments duty to make free 
political speech available for 
Americans who desire it.
The fact that a Supreme Court jus
tice would support what often 
amounts to a near bribe shows how 
integrated money and politics have 
become. When it is important to 
contribute more than the average 
man makes in two weeks, then 
reform is past due. Democracy can 
only survive if it exists independent 
of the influence of money.
Clearly the obstruction to democ
racy lies notin campaign contribu
tion laws, nor their extension to 
states. Those laws are the boon of 
democracy and the stumbling 
blocks of oligarchy. People who feel 
that campaign contribution limits 
impede free speech ought to look at 
how exorbitant contributions hinder 
the speech of the vast majority of 
their countrymen. Perhaps those 
who reach for their wallet need to 
look at the example of Thomas 
Paine, who changed the world with 
a pamphlet. If they want to speak, 
heres the pen, now speak.
Christopher May is The Tartans 
Forum Editor and a first-year student 
in the Science and Humanitites 
Scholars program. He often writes 
about politics and welcomes all 
responsible replies to his column.
2PW NEMIjt9pE+pwjM
Justin Suissa/Art Editor
Political system requires that eligible voters play their part
LaRita Y. Hamilton
Upon turning 18, there was a small list of 
things that I knew that I must do in order to 
truly be a bona-fide 18-year-old. After open
ing my own bank account (finally), I stopped 
by the convenience store to purchase my first 
dirty magazine. Thereafter, I went across the 
street to the U. S. Post Office and registered to 
vote.
If I were a boy, and not my girly self, I would 
have also registered for the draft. If you are 
over 18 years old and you have not registered 
to vote or bought a dirty magazine, shame on 
you. (If you havent registered for the draft by 
now, where have you been?) By managing to 
stay out of the correctional system and being 
an upstanding citizen of the United States of 
America you have earned the right to vote. 
You may think that your vote doesnt count, 
but that just isnt true. There are two ways to 
waste your vote: either by not voting or by vot
ing for a candidate that you care nothing 
about. Registering is not difficult to do, and
will only take a small amount of time. Go to 
the post office, fill out a form, sign your name 
and Wait for the voting registrar to write you 
back informing you that you are now regis
tered to vote. Its that simple. If you dont even 
feel like leaving your room, you can even reg
ister to vote online; check out 
www.Election.com. Youll only have to leave 
the comfort of your humble abode for a few 
minutes, and that will be to check the mail to 
find out that yes, indeed, you have been regis
tered. Think about it this way: if its on the 
Internet, registering to vote must be really 
important. Anyone who is able to vote should. 
Not only will it give you a warm fuzzy feeling 
inside (like youve swallowed a kitten), it will 
give you a greater appreciation for the suc
cesses of our government. It will also make 
you bitch louder than anyone else when 
something that you dont approve of occurs. 
You will be especially displeased when the 
person that you didnt vote for makes a mis
take. Obviously, your candidate wouldnt have 
made such a mistake.
That is why you should vote. You want to 
take an active role in the workings of the 
world around you. Complaints are so wellreceived when they are well-founded com
plaints. The same policy goes with excuses. I 
really cant think of any good excuses for not 
voting. Did you lose the form? Go online. 
Youre 19, not 18? Nice try. You dont like pol
itics? Do the dirty deed and get it over with. 
Whatever you decide, you will get as much 
out of voting as you put into it.
As of today, there are 295 days until the 
election. That means you have 295 days to 
research the candidates and the issues. Dont 
have the time? Never fear. You can find out all 
about the election without ever having to 
leave your computer. Theres even election 
information at MTV.com. Did you know that 
you could get a whole days news in half an 
hour on CNN Headline News? It sounds too 
good to be true, but it is. Sitting in front of the 
boob tube for half an hour can make you as 
politically savvy as the next guy. Supplement 
watching the news with reading a newspaper 
once in a while and youll really be on top of 
things. Now I know that newsprint is messy, 
but so are politics.
If you get involved you will now be able to 
engage yourself in screaming matches with 
your friends and family about politics. You 
may even find, as I have, that you can tell a lot 
about a person from which political party they
associate themselves with. I know, from per
sonal experience, that I could never date a 
Republican. So the other day when my latest 
object of affection looked at me and said, Id 
vote for George Bush, I just knew that we 
would make lovely friends. But hes so cute, 
that maybe I will put my feelings aside and 
just never discuss politics with the kid. On the 
other hand, its George Bush. I could go on for 
days on his horrible policies on education. My 
goal, however, is not to alienate George Bush 
supporters. Ill save that for those wild politi
cal debates that spring up when Im in the 
midst of my political compadres.
Face it. You cant escape voting mania, but 
why should you? Its your life, your country, 
your state, your county, your campus etc. 
Dont want to pay $35 a semester to ride the 
bus? Vote. Should local schools get more of 
our tax money? Vote. You dont want to see 
George Bush, the sequel? Vote. Its that sim
ple.
LaRita Y. Hamilton, a sophomore creative 
writing major; is what writer Anne Lamott calls 
a Yellow Dog Democrat. Id rather vote for a yel
low dog than a Republican. LaRita invites all 
responsible replies  and Republican ones.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper Since igo6 
STAFF
SENIOR STAFF 
Andy Francis, Emily Landes, Koichiro 
Nakatsu, Rim Svarcas
STAFFWRITERS
Neil Babra, Thaddeus Billman, Grant 
Catton, Cliff Chien, Rob Cullen, Donny 
Debarr, Elizabeth Dodson, Derek Dreyer, 
Frank J. Fleming, Colt Foutz, Heather 
Frantz, William-Neil Guzy, LaRita 
Hamilton, Rosie Jones, Rachel Kingery, 
Cynthia Kos, Eunice Liew, Katie Kowall, 
Matthew Lanken, Erin Lucas, Peter 
Patterson, Jennifer Petrini, Srinivas 
Pullela, Anwesha Rakshit, Jennifer 
Resick, Gail Ronen, Lynn Tao, Guido 
Zarrella
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Martin Hock, Joe Hocking, James 
Kenney, Tom Lin
PHOTO
Megan Adriance, Katherine Aerni, 
Anthony DAuria, Matthew Lanken, 
Shannon Lynch, Michael Raisman, Robin 
Taufmann, Peter Wang
DARKROOM
Stephanie Chow, Cam Crews, Amy 
Solana, Laura Wetzel
PRODUCTION
Serena Lam, Sarah McNeer
COPY
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Christopher 
Dornfeld, Claire Jauregui, Larissa Kasian, 
Kristin Lala, Matthew McHenry, Emma 
Rehm
JUNIOR STAFF
Megan Adriance, Lily Ahn, Nicholas 
Bonaddio, Joseph Carrier, Michael 
Castellana, Krissy Choi, Michael Cook, 
Dave del Rosario, Shion Deysarkar, Jay 
Huang, Lisa Ferrugia, Gopi Flaherty, Bill 
Jerome, Douglas Jones Jr, Tim Lo, Matt 
Longnecker, Bhumika Muchhala, Vijay 
Palaparty, Beth Powell, Karthik 
Ramachandran, Christian Reed, Adam 
Retchless, Chris Ruger, Vanessa Salas,. 
Domenic Senger-Schenck, Sabrina 
Small, Sheila Wang
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem
bers of the University community. It is print
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usual
ly, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writer's address and phone number for verifi
cation. Names may be withheld upon request. 
The Tartan requests that letters be no longer 
than 350 words. The Tartan reserves the right 
to condense or reject any letter. Letters to the 
Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright 
1999 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from pub
lication any copy it deems unfit for publica
tion. Office: University Center Room 314. 
Phone: 412/268-2111. Mailing address: The 
Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie Mellon 
University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107. The 
Tartan is a member of the 
Associated Press.Ap
Entertainment, or lack thereof, is a major question on campus. We investigated 
the response to a new alternative by asking the question:
What do you think of the new SDC movie channel?A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Christopher May 
Photos by Behnam Farahpour
Sonni Abatta
First-year student 
Professional and Creative Writing
I dont know anything about it, but I 
plan on tuning in.
Charley Price
First-year student
Cognitive Science/Logic and Computation
It seems cool in concept but the picture 
was lacking, so I guess its failing in execu
tion.
Christine Chambers
First-year student 
Creative Writing
I think its highly intellectual and titil
lating.
Lauren LaMonica
Junior
Art
I havent tried it yet. I live off campus.
Timothy Chen
First-year student 
IDS
I think its a good addition, but they 
should work on selection and showing the 
movies on time.

---------------------------------------------------

Tir
i154u on through
.
Microsoft Technical Talk
Speaker: Mark Brown 
NT ARCHITECT
February 8 from 7-9pm 
Scaife Hall Room 125
Free Food!!
Software Giveaways!!
Microsoft

www.microso't.com/college

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 7. 2000
Our nations best athletes: are they pros or cons?
I Column As I See 'Em
by Colt Foutz
Disney couldnt have scripted a 
better sports week than the one we 
just experienced on the playing 
fields of the world.
At the Australian Open last 
Sunday, Andre Agassi continued his 
recent domination of tennis by cap
turing his sixth career Grand Slam 
tournament after crafting a master
ful comeback in the semi-finals 
against fellow American and former 
world number one Pete Sampras, 
and dismantling Russian Yevgeny 
Kafelnikov in the final. The victory 
continued a remarkable streak of 
red hot play by Agassi, who has 
risen to the top of his sport after 
being ranked 140th in the world just 
two years ago.
Meanwhile, Sunday evening, the 
St. Louis Rams and Tennessee 
Titans squared off in Super Bowl 
XXXIV in Atlanta, and put on a show 
that is being dubbed the best Super 
Bowl ever by fans and the media 
alike. Even Disney would probably 
be a little skeptical about telling 
Rams quarterback Kurt Warners 
too-good-to-be-true story.
After an unexceptional college 
career, Warner was cut by the 
Packers in training camp and spent 
the off-season stocking groceries in 
his hometown. For the next three 
seasons he spent time in the World 
League of American Football and 
with the Iowa Barnstormers of the 
Arena Football League. Eventually, 
he was signed by the Rams as a 
backup to prized and pricey freeagent star Trent Green. When 
Green went down with a seasonending injury in training camp, 
Warner was thrust into the starting 
role, while every sports writer from 
San Francisco to New England basi
cally wrote off the Rams season as 
finished, and predicted coach Dick 
Vermeils firing before the team was 
to take a single snap.
So what does Warner do? Oh, 
only throw for the second highest 
touchdown total in history and earn 
the leagues MVP award, while lead
ing the Rams to a World 
Championship with a clutch 73- 
yard touchdown pass to win the 
game after the Titans completed a 
16-point comeback with just two 
minutes left. Coach Vermeil retires 
from the game a winner, and all the 
writers that dissed the Rams early 
on reach for their pencils, red-faced, 
to spread to the world the story of 
Warner and his unshakable faith. 
Dreams can come true, they can 
happen to you....
But even though sporting events 
gave us so much reason to celebrate 
last week, the sad fact of the matter 
is that sport itself continues to exist, 
and will always exist, on two planes. 
One is the playing field, where joy, 
agony, guts and glory all combine to 
thrill the audience for a few hours, 
but in the end its only a game. The 
other is the real world from which 
sports cannot separate itself. This is 
our world, a world full of careerending injuries, racism, families, 
and crime. And the real-world inci
dents that we witnessed emerging 
from the world of sports last week 
were more than enough to tip the 
scale from celebration to the oppo
site end of horror, shock, and regret.
Hours after Warner and the Rams 
clinched their dance with destiny 
Sunday night, in another part of 
Atlanta, a Super Bowl party was 
spilling out from a neighborhood 
bar and onto the street. Somewhere
... joy, agony, guts 
and glory all 
combine to thrill 
the audience for a 
few hours, but in 
the end its only a 
game.
in the course of the celebrating, 
though, a fight broke out, and two 
men were stabbed to death. A lim
ousine, rented by Baltimore Ravens 
linebacker Ray Lewis, was spotted 
speeding away from the scene.
By Monday, Lewis had been 
arrested by the Atlanta police and 
charged with two counts of murder. 
Other members of his entourage 
seen getting into the limousine that 
night are still being sought for ques
tioning, but even if Lewis was not 
wielding a knife that night, the 
charges will stand, making him the 
second NFL player in two months to 
be charged with murder. In the 
other case, Rae Carruth of the 
Carolina Panthers was arrested in 
November for orchestrating a plot 
that resulted in his pregnant girl
friends death.
As if these events werent 
reminder enough of the problems 
plaguing major sports and society at 
large, the continuing saga of Braves 
closer John Rocker took another 
turn last week.
Responding to public outcry, 
baseball commissioner Bud Selig
U.S. heads to next 
round of Davis Cup
HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP)  
John McEnroe ran to embrace Chris 
Woodruff, silencing the pounding 
drums in the stands. There were 
tears in McEnroe's eyes, his first test 
as Davis Cup captain complete.
I've aged like five years in a 
week," McEnroe said.
But in his flight home out of 
Africa, an exhausted and wiser 
McEnroe leaves a winner. With 
Woodruff and Andre Agassi deliver
ing two gritty victories, the 
Americans beat Zimbabwe 3-2 
Sunday to advance to the second 
round.
The United States entered the 
final day trailing 2-1. First, a weak
ened Andre Agassi  so sick from 
the altitude and humidity he vomit
ed on the court  defeated Byron 
Black 6-2, 6-3, 7-6 (4) to even the 
matches.
Then it was left to Woodruff, a 
Davis Cup rookie who was stiff and 
shaken in his opening loss Friday. 
This time, Woodruff held up under 
immense pressure, beating the 
other Black brother, Wayne Black, 
6-3, 6-7 (2) 6-2, 6-4.
After his 15th ace ended the 
match, Woodruff flung his racket in 
the air  hugged by McEnroe, 
mobbed by teammates.
The Americans will be on more 
familiar turf for the next round, 
playing at home against the Czech 
Republic in April.
At one point, just like old times, 
McEnroe received a warning for 
foul language. Wayne Back called 
McEnroes behavior disgraceful.'
Agassi watched the end of the 
second match on TV from his hotel, 
where he was recovering.
I'm so proud of the team and the 
way they left their hearts on the 
court," he said.
Only three other times had a U.S. 
Davis Cup team rallied to win from 
a 2-1 deficit. The previous time was 
in 1981 against Mexico, when 
McEnroe was on a team coached by 
Arthur Ashe.
The Americans,-in their first Davis 
Cup matches in Africa, faced a 
rough road on Sunday after Alex 
O'Brien and Rick Leach lost the dou
bles in five sets to Wayne Black and 
Kevin Ullyett.
That left the Zimbabweans one 
victory shy of prevailing in a con
frontation Zimbabwe President 
Robert Mugabe likened to dwarfs 
against the giants."
Woodruff, ranked 37th in the 
world, was coming off a strong 
Australian Open in which he lost to 
Pete Sampras in the quarterfinals. 
Only now the stakes were higher  
he was playing for his country, with 
' McEnroe stalking the sideline.
But even that one sure thing  
Agassi's victory on Sunday  did 
not come easily.
Cramped and dehydrated, he 
vomited into a box behind a line 
judge's spot. After his victory, he left 
without his trademark bows to the 
crowd. In the locker room, his 
cramping and vomiting persisted.
But for all his debilitated state, 
Agassi was still able to apply his 
powerful ground strokes in sweep
ing Zimbabwe's top-ranked player.
This was Agassi's second singles 
victory of the series. On Friday, he 
beat Wayne Black.
For Zimbabwe, the matches sig
naled that this country can be a fac
tor in the Davis Cup. Last year, it 
trounced Chile and Marcelo Rios. 
This time, it nearly knocked off the 
United States.
We were so close," Wayne Black 
said. And it's a great disappointsuspended Rocker until May 1 for 
comments Rocker made in a 
December issue of Sports Illustrated. 
In the article, Rocker told SI that he 
would never play for a New York 
team because it would mean riding 
the subway next to some queer 
with AIDS, among other things. He 
also mocked foreigners, and called a 
black teammate a fat monkey. 
The Players Association entered an 
appeal of the suspension on 
Rockers behalf.
This string of events only adds to 
the shock society has felt at what 
seems to be an increasing amount of 
violent or inappropriate incidents 
involving athletes or sports figures 
in recent years. The cumulative 
effect of such famous and welldebated issues as the O.J. Simpson 
murder trial, the sexual assault 
committed by University of 
Nebraska football players, and 
golfer John Dalys struggles with 
alcoholism has led the public to 
view the culture of sport as one of 
self-indulgence, irresponsibility, 
and, tragically, violence.
Its hard to argue with this view. 
Todays athletes are coddled in ways 
that the average person cannot 
understand. Because they throw a 
ball over 90 mph or can sink a fade
away jumper from 25 feet out, ath
letes are paid truckloads of money 
and given an extraordinary amount 
of attention. They are considered 
special, and the special treatment 
they are given often starts at the 
first glimmer of their athletic ability 
and potential.
For some of these stars, this atten
tion culminates in an entourage of 
hangers-on and yes-men who con
sider it in their best interest to give 
the athlete everything they desire. 
And with the unprecedented 
amount of clout most stars enjoy in 
this era of free agency andpowerful 
sports agents, these well-wishers 
can extend from the gangs in the old 
neighborhood or the highway 
patrolmen that let them out of 
speeding tickets, all the way to the 
owners of their franchises. Not 
many people are willing to say no to 
a millionaire athlete.
So its hard to disagree with NFL 
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue when 
he claims, as he did in his Super 
Bowl press conference, Can we sep
arate ourselves from society? Of 
course not. We cant predict what 
NFL players can do any more than 
we can predict students shooting 
other students or workers shooting 
fellow workers.
Tagliabues got a point. We exist 
on the plane of the real world, just
as sports do. A certain number of us 
will commit violent crimes. A cer
tain number of us will get caught 
speeding, and may even sweet talk 
our way out of it. A certain number 
of us will have children out of wed
lock, or have marriages that result 
in divorce. Whether or not this per
centage corresponds with that of 
the NFL, NBA, or Major League 
Baseball is beside the point, I think.
No one can claim that we as ordi
nary citizens enjoy the same privi
leges as famous  or even relatively 
famous  athletes, yet we are all 
judged by the same laws. The peo
ple who play sports professionally 
are a select group to begin with, and 
any select group will have certain 
characteristics. Does this mean that 
players in the NFL are more likely to 
commit murder, or that MLB players 
are more racist than the rest of 
America? Of course not! The main 
characteristic that is shared by all of 
these players, in all professional 
sports, is that they can do one thing 
exceptionally well. Whether its 
throwing a ball or running faster
than 80 percent of the planet, hav
ing these talents certainly doesnt 
mean that athletes are more or less 
prone to breaking the law than you 
or me. But many of them are paid 
much much more money for these 
talents than your average citizen, 
even though we may be exceptional 
teachers, or type faster than 80 per
cent of the world. They are reward
ed and often idolized for their ath
letic abilities, and this type of atten
tion can often corrupt.
If John Rocker were at a party in 
one of our homes and made the type 
of comments he did in Sports 
Illustrated, a gracious host would 
claim, John, surely youre not 
aware of what youre saying, and 
then firmly change the subject. A 
less gracious host might kick John 
Rocker and his stupidity right out 
the door.
But John Rocker is part of a differ
ent social circle than we are, and all 
we can do is react with appropriate 
outrage and wait to see how base
ball and society will punish him for 
him for his comments. No one said
Matthew Blum/Art Stall
that Rocker has any talent beyond 
the speed of his fastball, and its not 
a crime to be stupid, after all, but he 
will have to answer for his actions. 
And thats all we can expect as 
members of society, really  that 
our courts will prove impartial and 
judge all people, whether athletes 
or not, under the full authority of 
our laws.
However, what remains to be seefr 
and what may prove to be the hardi
est thing for spectators of the darke)* 
side of sports and society to watcl 
is whether professional sports will 
take meaningful and effective steps 
to prevent the unique amount of 
fame and money available to the 
members of its elite fraternity fronji 
causing damage to the rest of soci
ety.
Until then, weve got the Kurt 
Warners of the sports world to be 
thankful for, and the everyday 
heroes of our world as well.  ;
Responsible replies to this columfy 
are appreciated, and can be addressed 
to ff25 @andre w. cm u. ed u.
World team wins NHL All-Star Game, 9-4
TORONTO (AP)  Three goals, 
two brothers, and one special 
moment in an NHL. All-Star game 
that, for a change, was something 
more than an unexciting shootout.
Pavel Bure scored three goals, 
two set up by little brother Valeri, 
and goaltender Olaf Kolzig played a 
rare shutout period as the World 
team turned the 50th All-Star game 
into an uncommon rout, dominat
ing North America 9-4 on Sunday.
Bure's hat trick was the 11th in 
All-Star history, but the fourth in 
four years in a game that has 
increasingly emphasized offense, 
with an average of 16 goals scored 
over the last 10 years.
In a game where defense is an 
afterthought and hitting is totally 
forgotten as players are as con
cerned with preventing injuries as 
they are scoring goals, hometown 
goaltender Curtis Joseph of the 
Maple Leafs made 20 saves in a 
busy first period, yet still trailed 
3-2.
St. Louis goaltender Roman 
Tlirek, initially left off the World 
team despite owning better statis
tics than Tommy Salo of Edmonton 
or Kolzig of Washington, started for 
the injured Dominik Hasek of 
Buffalo and was outstanding 
despite yielding goals to Joe Sakic 
and Jeremy Roenick.
Pittsburghs Jaromir Jagr and 
Pavel Bure were part of the Legends 
on Ice film clip that opened the 
ABC-TV telecast and drew extended 
cheers inside the Air Canada 
Centre. The short film depicted 
Wayne Gretzky, Mario Lemieux, 
and Gordie Howe trekking to a 
frozen pond for a pickup game, only 
to stumble upon Jagr, Eric Lindros, 
Paul Kariya, and Pavel Bure already 
playing.
The legends yield the ice to the 
younger generation, a symbolic
passing of the torch that followed 
Lemieux's retirement in 1997 and 
Gretzky's last year.
St. Louis coach Joel Quenneville, 
a World assistant coach, watched
the short film on the scoreboard 
above the ice and said, I almost got 
a tear in my eye.
Gretzky, who retired last year, 
was missing from the All-Star lineup
for the first time in 19 years. But he 
drew an extended ovation when his 
No. 99 was officially retired for 
every NHL team during a pregam 
ceremony.
classified
TravelFor SaleServices
Go Direct! #1 Internet-based company 
offering WHOLESALE Spring Break pack
ages by eliminating middlemen! ALL 
Destinations! Guaranteed Lowest Price! 
(800) 367-1252 
www. springbreakdirect. com
Spring Break 2000! Cancn, Bahamas, 
Jamaica, Florida. Call USA Spring Break 
for a free brochure, rates and ask how 
you can GO FOR FREE! Ask about our 
last minute specials!! (888) 777-4642 
www. usaspringbreak. com
Last Minute Specials on Spring Break! 
Cancn! Jamaica! Nassau! Save an addi
tional $150 per person to Cancn. 32 
hours of free drinks! Call us at 
(800) 293-1443 or go to StudentCity.com
Mexico/Caribbean or Central America 
$199 r.t. Europe $169 o.w. Other world 
wide destinations cheap. ONLY TERROR
ISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER! Book 
tickets online www.airtech.com or 
(212) 219-7000.
For Rent. North Craig St. Furnished, 
efficiencies and one-bedroom apts. 
Spring and Fall occupancy. 485 and up. 
Heat and water included. Graduates or 
mature students. Secure building. 682- 
1194. 731-0450.Opportunities
Flowers and more for Valentine's Day. 
ALEX'S FLOWERS 687-4128/687-ALEX/ 
www.alexsflowers.com. WIN PRIZES! Enter 
contest on website.
Apartment Maintenance - Shadyside 
apartment buildings. Includes trash 
removal & general building mainte
nance/cleaning. Part-time $6.50/hr. Call 
682-2300.
Student Organizations earn $1000- 
$2000 with the easy 
campusfundraiser.com three hour 
fundraising event. No sales required. 
Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so 
call today! Contact (888) 923-3238, or 
visit www.campusfundraiser.com.
Ink-Jet Cartridges are expensive!!! 
Save 30%-60% on all ink-jet, laser, fax, 
and copier supplies.info@firstclassgroup.com, www.firstdassgroup.com. 
(215) 891-1 792.
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 1521 3-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date 
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
February 7, 2000 THE TARTAN Page I
Womens basketball team continues to climb up UAA ladder
by Brian Smith
Contributing Editor
Over the past month, the 
womens basketball team has trans
formed into a serious contender in 
the region and the UAA, knocking 
off squads that were supposed to be 
better than them and demolishing 
weaker ones with an unbreakable 
press.
The Tartans have won seven 
straight and have to win one more 
game to guarantee themselves the 
first above-.500 finish since 1992- 
93.
I knew coming into the season 
that I had one of the stronger teams 
Ive ever had at CMU, said head 
coach Gerri Seidl. This season has 
been a lot of fun. One of my best 
experiences at CMU.
The Tartans started last week 
with a home matchup against 
Washington and Jefferson. The 
game marked the end of a oneweek midseason rest and was the 
last non-UAA match of the season. 
The week off did not kill the 
womens momentum, however, and 
CMU rolled over W&J, 62-45.
Last Friday, the Tartans took their 
game on the road, beginning a
weekend road trip in Cleveland ver
sus arch-rival Case Western Reserve 
University. This marked the start of 
the most challenging stretch in the 
teams schedule  seven UAA 
games in a row, the first four on the 
road.
Having defeated Case Western 
two weeks ago at home, both teams 
knew what the other brought to the 
game.
They have watched our tape and 
know what sorts of things we do in 
different situations, said Seidl. We 
know that they stopped option two 
last time and we need to run option 
three. The team is playing so well 
that even if they stop option three, 
we can go to the fourth option.
Carnegie Mellon carried a ninepoint 31-22 lead into the second 
half. The kids played really well in 
the first half, said Seicjl. It was 
important to come out in the second 
half and dominate early.
To do that, Seidl implemented the 
Tartans signature press.
We started out [the game] in a 
man press, stopped for a while, and 
then went back to a zone press, she 
said. It is our strongest press and 
worked well. We stole a few quickly 
and opened up the score.
Absence of dominant teams leaves Final Four wide open
Two minutes into the second half, 
the Tartans lead grew to 15 and 
they never looked back. First-year 
Erin Brady sunk a team-leading 19 
points, draining 7 of 8 from the field 
and 5 of 6 from the charity stripe. 
She also pulled down nine rebounds 
to supplement senior Kara Kovals 
10-rebound, 14-point performance. 
Senior Amy Novak rounded out the 
Tartan double-digit scorers with 12 
points on 6-13 shooting from the 
field.
They were playing us tighter but 
we reacted, said Seidl. People are 
starting to read our offense well. 
The main difference for us is our 
older players are stepping up.
Strong defense is still at the core 
of the teams success, however. We 
wanted to limit their shots in the 
paint and make them take perime
ter shots, said Seidl. We did some 
stuff to disrupt their offense and the 
upperclassmen like [senior Lacy 
Perretta]  played very well defen
sively.
The game ended in a'74-51 CMU 
victory, and was the second time in 
two weeks the Tartans defeated 
Case by more than 20 points. They 
traveled from Cleveland to 
Rochester on Saturday for a matinee
game versus the University of 
Rochester on Sunday.
Winning yesterdays game would 
guarantee the Tartans a winning 
record for the regular season and a 
great chance to qualify for postsea
son play.
Rochester has been improving 
steadily this season, said Seidl 
before the game, citing its strong 
showing versus UAA power Emory 
despite adjusting for a new coach. 
We must work on disrupting them. 
We have the stronger inside game, 
and were going to try to put the ball 
inside. Everyone is overplaying our 
points. Now its time for our post 
players to step it up.
The Tartans had won sevenstraight games before their matchup 
on Sunday and, with a 12-7 overall 
record, are poised to meet with 
some of the UAAs finest teams over 
the next few weeks. On Friday, they 
will face New York University 
(against whom the Tartans have 
their seasons biggest victory) 
before traveling to Boston to take on 
Brandeis.
Victories over NYU and Brandeis 
this weekend would bring the team 
one step closer to hoisting itself into 
postseason action.
dont really know, or much care, to 
tell you the truth. However, in 
sports it looks like we have ushered 
in the decade of parity.
For anyone whos been paying 
attention to the NFL, this is nothing 
new. Revenue sharing and free 
agency have created a league that
Important Dates
Monday, February 7  Floor 
Hockey begins
Wednesday, February 9  IM 
Board Meeting at 1 pm in the Gym 
Conference Room 
Thursday, February 10  Water 
Basketball Rosters due by 4:30pm 
in the IM Office.
Sports in Season
Basketball  Games are under
way at the UC and Skibo Gyms on 
Monday through Thursday 
evenings and Sunday afternoons. 
Schedules are available at the IM 
Office.
Floor Hockey  Season begins 
tonight. Games are played
would be the envy of Karl Marx.
The talent level is so evenly 
matched that one injury to a key 
player can bring down a franchise 
(see Steve Young, Jamal Anderson), 
and one transcendent superstar can 
put you over the top a la Kurt 
Warner. Parity in the NFL is old
Monday through Thursday 
evenings in the Arena. Please stay 
out of the track teams practice. 
Schedules are available at the IM 
Office.
Badminton  Schedules are out 
and can be picked up at the IM 
Office. Please stay out of basket
ball teams practice.
The IM Board has changed the 
times of meetings for this semes
ter. They will be held on every 
other Wednesday at 1 pm in the 
Gym Conference Room. The next 
meeting is on February 9.
Note: All email rosters are due 24 
hours prior to the posted date.
r\uiuimu ivdiuiisu/oeiiiui muiu aian
The womens basketball team, which plays NYU this Friday, has been on a hot 
streak, and will likely finish the season above .500 for the first time in seven years.
Full Court Press
by Pete Patterson
A lot has been written lately about 
what to call our new decade, the 
first decade of the millennium. Are 
we beginning the double-ohs, the 
zeroes, the naughts, or the nils? I
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Intramural Director: 
Mike Grzywinski x8-2214 
Intramural Secretary: Amy Kiryk 
x8-2053 or kiryk+
IM President: Justin Peroli x2- 
3917 or peroli+
Vice President: Mike Hutsko x2- 
3942 or hutsko+
Womens President: Andrea Nellis 
X2-2485 or nellis+
Forget the fact that they spanked have in common? They lost in the 
UConn this Saturday. It was on their second round'of the NCAA champihome floor, and the Huskies would onships. Until this years team gets 
have trouble beating the Western over the hump and into the Sweet 
Michigan Broncos the way theyve Sixteen, we should regard its suebeen playing lately. To top it off, this cess with skepticism. A troublesome 
is the same Spartan team that lost to trend of playing down to the level of 
Wright State in December. Any team the competition and letting up once; 
that loses to the Raiders has no busia big lead is obtained has already 
ness playing on the final weekend of been a factor this season. Couple 
the season. that with an all-freshmen starting
backcourt,, and fans in Cincinnati 
Duke may have to start thinking about
Sure, the Blue Devils are currentthe Reds early again this year,
ly on an l'8-gam winning streak 
and have yet to lose in conference Temple
play. However, that may be more of I must be really off my rocker 
a reflection of the weakness of the now. The Temple Owls in the Final 
ACC than the strength of the Dukies. Four? This is a team that has lost to 
How can a team that lost three Wisconsin and St. Bonaventure 
underclassmen to the first fifteen already this season. Its hard to 
picks of the draft as well as sharpimagine a team coming out of the 
shooter Trajan Langdon and big man weak Atlantic Ten and making a 
Chris Burgess still be playing on an long run in the tourney, 
elite level? This is a team that is The aforementioned Bonnies and
There are no obvious dominant teams 
this year. No one resembling Duke from 
last year; Arkansas in the mid 90s, or 
UNLV in the early part of the decade.
news; however now it is spreading 
to the rest of the sports world.
For instance, has anyone watched 
the NBA recently? Ever since MJ 
retired, the title is anyones to take. 
And, unless Air Jordan decides to 
trade his ownership position for a 
spot on the floor in Washington, I 
dont see any dominant teams on 
the horizon.
Now major league baseball is 
scrambling to get into the act, lest it 
be left behind the times. 
Commissioner Bud Selig has just 
been granted sweeping powers over 
the owners, and the former owner 
of the small-market Milwaukee 
Brewers will no doubt bring a rev
enue sharing system to the table to 
level out the playing field.
If those who run our sports have 
their way, every team would finish 
.500 and titles would be decided by 
an arcane tie-breaking system simi
lar to that used to determine the 
quarterback ranking in e NFL.
All this has been a lead-in, and an 
excuse; for my topic of the day. I am 
going to attempt to select the teams 
I believe will be going to 
Indianapolis to play in the NCAA 
Final Four this March. College bas
ketball has not been immune to the 
parity bug. There are no obvious 
dominant teams this year. No one 
resembling Duke from last year, 
Arkansas in the mid 90s, or UNLV in 
the early part of the decade.
Still, I am going to attempt to 
select the teams I think will be vying 
for the title in about two months. 
However, rather than touting the 
assets of these squads, I will indicate 
why they will fail to meet my lofty 
expectations.
Michigan State
The Spartans are a tough team, 
but there is no way they should 
make the Final Four. Their point 
guard, Mateen Cleaves, cant shoot 
straight (.409 from the field and 
.263 from 3-point range) and they 
have lost power forward Antonio 
Smith, the heart and soul, not to 
mention the leading rebounder, 
from last years team.
extremely shallow. Only six players 
receive any amount of playing time, 
three of whom are freshman. What 
may .really hurt the Devils come 
tournament time is their guard play. 
Point guard Jason Williams has been 
playing well, but behind him there is 
no one else capable of running the 
show. Should he show any freshman 
jitters in the tourney, Duke will real
ly be in trouble.
Cincinnati
The Bearcats are considered to be 
the best team in the nation right 
now, but Ive heard this story before. 
In 1996, for example, when the 
team was preseason number one. 
Last season about this same time of 
the year, the Cats were 21-1 and 
ranked first in the nation.
What else do those two squads
Dayton are the Owls top two rivals 
in a league that will struggle to get 
two bids to the championships this 
year. With their unique brand of 
matchup zone defense, the Owls are 
usually good for a win or two in the 
tournament. Their offense has been 
too inconsistent to take them fur
ther than that, though, and a similar 
fate may befall the team this season.
Despite all of the flaws they pos
sess, the above four are my picks to 
be the last standing at the end of the 
college basketball season. If they 
dont pan out, I do have a couple of 
dark horses. Im figuring maybe the 
NFL success of St. Louis and 
Tennessee could translate to the 
basketball arena. Therefore, Ill go 
out on a limb and say the Billikens 
over the Volunteers in a title game 
only Paul Tagliabue could love.
Sports ShortsIndoor Track
Last Saturday, the track team par
ticipated in a Division I meet at Kent 
State University. The competition 
was stiff, and included teams from 
Ohio State, Penn State, Duguesne, 
Appalachian State, and Kent State.
Carnegie Mellon runners were 
only able to place twice  Kenn 
Oldham came in 20th in the 5000- 
meter run with a time of 15:21, and 
Andrea Byrnes finished 4th in the 
3000-meter run with a time of 10:20. 
The Tartans will travel to Denison 
University this Saturday for a meet.
tile photo by Katie Aerni/Photo Staff
Compiled by 
Christopher Chung

---------------------------------------------------

ArtsvLiving
7 February 2000 ________________________________________________________________________THE TARTAN_____________ Page Li
The Frame adds human aggression to art
by Elaine Boland
Contributing Editor
Its a good bet that no one was aware of 
the fact that the World Wrestling Federation 
paid a visit to The Frame last Friday night. 
This is most likely because ,they didnt, but it
was certainly difficult to differentiate 
between the testosterone-drenched display 
of performance art that took place and a 
death match between Stone Cold Steve 
Austin and The Rock.
Usually, exhibitions at The Frame are lim
ited to photographs, paintings, and other 
varieties of twoand three-dimensional inanimate art. Such was not the case last Friday, 
when sophomore design major Zach Smith 
and junior design major Joe Fletcher used 
blunt objects, body parts, and barbed wire as 
their highly animated forms of self expres
sion.
Performing to a packed audience, Smith 
See FRAME, page L3
Art exhibit explores fables through calligraphy
by Rob Cullen
Staffwriter
Last Friday, the University Center Art 
Gallery hosted a reception for the exhibi
tion One Picture is Worth More than a 
Thousand Words by Carnegie Mellon 
1991 graduate Kelly Young. The exhibi
tion will run through February 19.
One Picture is Worth More than a 
Thousand Words is a series of 20 threedimensional images; each one tied to one 
of Aesops fables. Each piece contains a 
strikingly sharp, colorful image, with a 
piece of glass a few inches in front of it 
which contains several words from the 
text of the particular fable that the piece 
represents and helps create the 3D effect. 
The show is accompanied by a color cata
logue that gives the story of the narrative 
behind each piece and ties the virtues 
depicted to their Chinese translations.
The exhibit is interesting in that it 
combines the moral teachings of Aesops 
fables which are thousands of years old, 
with highly modern-looking images with 
three-dimensional effects. It attempts to 
impress these teachings on viewers by
presenting it as art and literature. The 
pieces serve as almost book-like illustra
tions.
The exhibit seems to be discussing the 
relevance of these fables in today's world. 
The combination of the elaborate oldfashioned calligraphy with the more mod
ern mounting brings these issues to the 
forefront. By highlighting main themes 
such as greedy, selfish, and envy in 
large letters, the art explains the short 
story before it is read. Some of the fables 
Young interpreted were The Hare and 
The Tortoise, The Labourer and the 
Snake, and The Wolf and the Lamb.
The University Center Art Gallery itself 
is supported by Carnegie Mellons 
Student Activities Office. It provides a 
public space to present the work of stu
dents and alumni, and generally shows 
more traditional types of art than what. 
would be found at the Frame or the Miller 
gallery. The UC art gallery aims to 
increase cultural awareness in the univer
sity community, by offering a diverse 
schedule of creative media and theme 
presentations and will continue showing 
a variety of different types of exhibitions 
throughout the semester.courtesy Carnegie wenon universiiy oemer nn banery
Musical troupe breaks in 
Purnells Chosky Theater
by Blake Engel
Personnel Manager
In the Purnell Centers Chosky 
Theater, the Sound Bytes a cappella 
troupe offered up a diversely enter
taining program last Friday night. 
Opening the evening for them was 
4real, a local professional group of 
young singers, who performed 
tunes such as In the Jungle, and the 
very clever Folgers Crystal Theme. 
They were a pleasure to watch and 
hear, as their sparing choreography 
complemented very charismatic 
singing.
Fridays event was the first to be 
held in Chosky Theater, an honor 
that was quite cool, according to 
Soundbytes singer Sripal Mehta, a 
Masters student in electrical and 
computer engineering. The hall 
itself is considerably larger than any 
other on campus. Dark wood covers 
the walls flanking the stage, and the 
seats are comfortable and provide
ample elbow and leg room. The 
stage is brand new and has not yet 
taken on that scruffy, worn-in look.
Selections for the evening were 
primarily pop music, mostly from 
the 80s. Nearly every tune included' 
a soloist, often a duet. We chose 
the songs for variety, said Russ 
Kaplan, a senior in drama. The ama
teur troupe sang with skill beyond; 
their experience and shone on songs; 
like Madonnas La Isla Bonita, Phil 
Collins In the Air Tonight, and 
Lives Lightning Crashes.
Also on the program was Princes 
Dont Have to Be, which was pure 
and simple fun with Kaplan on the' 
lead part. His interpretation of 
Princes soprano voice was both 
accurate and comical, and the girls 
dancing around him further mir
rored Princes unique style.
Each singer had quirky character
istics, allowing listeners to focus on 
alternating graceful and comical 
physical motions on stage. Each| 
See BYTES, page L2 !
Increased connectivity results in lack of concentration, thought
LESS STRESS?
by Emily Landes
During a recent trip to London, I learned 
that more than half of the citizenry had 
gone insane. Everywhere I went, people 
were talking to themselves. On the bus, 
some woman seemed to be telling herself 
an amusing story. A man walking yelled 
out to the streets that he just wasnt being 
understood. (No small wonder, I thought 
at the time.) Down a few blocks from my 
hotel, a woman stood alone, laughing hys
terically.
If Id wanted to see crazy people talk to 
themselves, I thought, I couldve just 
stayed home in New York.
Then one day on the tube, I'watched 
with interest as another one of these sup
posed schizophrenics actually said good
bye to his alter ego. He took the earpiece 
from his ear, wrapped the long wire con
nected to it around a little black box that 
had been hidden in his hand, and put it 
into his pocket. Thats when I realized that 
these people werent sick, they were talk
ing on their cell phones.
After that I noticed the signs every
where. They used different smiling models, 
different clever slogans, and featured dif
ferent miniature mobile phones, but they 
all said the same thing: Get connected! For 
less!
At CMU, this is certainly an idea that we 
have taken to heart. With the price of cell 
phones dropping drastically in recent years 
and phone companies tripping over them
selves to offer free talk time and cheap con
nection fees, almost everyone can afford to 
buy a cell phone. And almost everyone has. 
All over campus, people are talking. On the 
way to class, while eating, and even on the 
Stairmaster at the gym, it appears that 
everyone is on the phone.
But of course, this is CMU. We cannot 
limit our discussion to actual person-toperson communication. With the new 
wireless connections in place and assum
ing that we have access to a laptop, we can 
now check our email, post to bboards, and 
talk inanely in chatrooms, all as we wait for
our turn at Srees. But is all of this 
increased connectivity really necessary?
I know, we all love our email. Its an 
obsession at this school. In fact, several 
new iMacs have just popped up in the 2nd 
floor hallway of Baker Hall and since there 
are no chairs or benches in front of these 
computers, I can only imagine that they 
have been added for the express purpose of 
checking ones email. Several benches, one 
of the few places to sit in that building out
side a cluster, were eliminated to put these 
computers in. All so that we can more 
obsessively view our electronic correspon
dence, presumably as we walk down the 
hall from one cluster to another.
Perhaps because I am guilty of email 
gluttony myself, ubiquitous cell phone use 
is even more aggravating to me. I can 
remember very few times when I have had 
something to say that was so urgent it 
couldnt wait until I got home, or at least 
until I got to a building with a pay phone. 
Maybe everyone else has more important
doordie topics to discuss than I do, but 
from what I can hear of other peoples con
versations as they brush past me on cam
pus, this does not appear to be the case.
Recently the fatality of cell phone use 
has been examined, as people who talk on 
cell phones while they drive are much 
more likely to get into accidents than peo
ple who, say, concentrate on the road. But, 
I think that there is a more insidious dan
ger to examine. As the world becomes 
increasingly smaller and people can reach 
each other more quickly and in more 
places, we are in real danger of losing our 
personal time to think. Information reach
es us more quickly, but we have no time to 
absorb it before it is time to buzz off to new 
conversations and correspondences.
Before cell phones, what were we doing 
as we walked to class, ate lunch, went to 
the bathroom, etc.? We were thinking, per
haps about who we had to call and email 
later that day, but at least they were 
thoughts and not words. Thus getting con
nected is only an extension of living in a 
society where what you say is more impor
tant than the thought that went into each 
statement. We consider thoughtful people 
to be slow. They hold us back. After all, 
with so many people to talk to and email, 
those who actually take the time to think 
about what they are saying put themselves 
at a real disadvantage.
As the tiny, nearly-hidden cell phones in 
London show, when and who you talk to is 
becoming less and less a business of show
ing off your fun electronic accessories and 
more a definition of who you are. However, 
who we are while using these media is just 
a voice, a user id, or a screen name. 
Therefore, in the process of getting con
nected we have sacrificed our real selves 
for what is merely a convincing simulation.
Emily Landes will only get a cell phone if it 
looks like the big gray plastic one that Zack 
Morris used to scheme with on Saved By the 
Bell.

---------------------------------------------------

X2THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 7, 2000
African-American lecture series 
promotes cultural awareness
Scotch n Soda present improv 
comedy, The I2K Problem
Anthony D'Auria/Staff Photographer
Hunter Howe and Kam Lasater get physical in a moment from Scotch n Sodas The I2K Problem."
.fry Becca Fribush
Contributing Editor
f] A new lecture series will bring 
'^rican-American thinkers from a 
,^de variety of disciplines to share 
Jmeir knowledge on campus.
The Alcoa-African American 
Speaker Series, organized by 
Graduate Programs Office director 
$ancy Klancher, has its origins in 
an initiative of President Cohons 
Diversity Advisory Council. The 
series, funded by a grant from 
Alcoa, aims to expose the Carnegie 
Mellon community to the ideas and 
insights of African-American schol
ars, theorists, and writers at the 
leading edge of their fields.
rThese people are at the top of 
tneir fields, says Klancher about 
tiie speakers, but we wanted to 
have another kind of impact too. 
ach speaker will not only be shar
ing their expertise in their specific 
fields but also serving as examples 
of values such as wisdom, learning, 
understanding, community, and 
dialogue.
! The speakers are not there merely
BYTES, from page LI 
singer had his or her own way of 
being physically involved in the 
music, from finger snapping to 
Hand waving to jumping up and 
down.
] As for official, planned choreog
raphy, Jenny Kenlon was the mas
ter. Understated movement around 
the stage can serve to accent the 
dynamic a cappella style, a task 
that Kenlon carried out well.
1 The Sound Bytes composure was 
impressive. Even when they 
stopped a few bars into Dave 
Matthews Stay due to a faulty 
 start, they laughed it off, began 
j again, and performed the song the 
ij whole way through without falter'.{ing.
3 The group was also endowed 
;! technically; some members created 
;] percussive effects that blended well 
into the overall effect. I even found 
1 myself occasionally searching for a 
drumset. Water bottles were close 
at hand after each tune, and nearly 
empty after the show.
; Minor logistic problems such as a 
,'j delayed entrance to the stage and 
; microphone mix-ups were only
to lecture and leave. One of the most 
distinctive aspects of the series is its 
focus on giving the speakers time to 
connect with the CMU community 
in smaller, more low-key settings. 
The idea was to have an interactive 
approach, says Klancher, so that it 
wasnt just a formal lecture but the 
speakers could interact with differ
ent constituencies on campus.
To accomplish this goal, Klancher 
planned what she calls piggyback 
events, in which, in addition to 
their main lecture, visiting speakers 
will lead other activities on cam
pus. For instance, many of this 
semesters lecturers will discuss 
their work and careers with stu
dents over breakfast, lunch, or tea. 
One speaker' will address the 
Women in Science and Engineering 
celebration dinner, while another 
one will guest lecture in some 
social and decision sciences classes.
Klancher also hopes the speaker 
series will yield some new perspec
tives on CMU itself. Speakers are 
being invited to share any insights 
about the CMU climate or communi
ty with us after their visits, she says.
The series debuted the Thursday
slightly distracting, but certainly 
unnecessary. Otherwise, the tech 
crew pulled the evening off without 
a glitch. Lighting was appropriate 
and well-timed and the mixing was 
satisfactory.
According to Mehta, the group 
exclusively comprises non-music 
majors; members are not even 
sponsored or mentored by anyone 
in the Music department. Yet, 
Sound Bytes will be traveling to 
the Midwest Regionals for the 
National Competition of 
Collegiate A Cappella, an event, 
some music student groups will 
attend.
Since November last year, each 
member has been sporting new 
costumes: the men in dark slacks, 
navy blue shirts, and silver ties, and 
the women in dark skirts and sil
very blouses.
Mehta recalled that the 
wardrobe was the result of a oneday shopping spree, and no more 
than $20 per shirt and tie ensemble 
and $10-$15 per womens blouse.
These outfits created a bona-fide 
a capella look for the group, 
although the style of the male and
before last with a speech by activist 
and author Evelio Grillo on How 
Communities Grow: The Practice of 
Community-Building. Around 35 
people went to the lecture, accord
ing to Klancher, who says she was 
pleased at the breadth of the audi
ence, noting the mixture of under
graduates, graduate students, and 
faculty among the attendees.
At least five more speakers will 
come to campus this semester under 
the auspices of the series. On
February 10, Camillo Taylor of the 
Computer and Information Sciences 
department at the University of 
Pennsylvania will lecture on
Implications of Information
Technology in the 21st Century.
Other upcoming speakers include 
Carol Swain of the Politics and Public 
Affairs department of Princeton 
University on Racial Preferences, 
Hate Groups and the Shrinking 
White Minority, author, activist, and 
publisher Barbara Smith on The 
Truth That Never Hurts; and Duke 
University postdoctoral fellow in bio
chemistry Margaret Kanipes dis
cussing A Scientific Journey. The 
series will also continue next year.
female outfits were somewhat out 
of synch with one another. The 
mens look was clean-cut while the 
womens was a notch closer to 
casual.
On Saturday, the Sound Bytes 
performed before a crowd of 
around 900 and delievered another 
quality concert as they traveled to 
Penn State University for the 
Midwest Collegiate A Capella 
Competition.
We really were stellar, said 
Sound Bytes member Jenny 
Kenlon. Unfortunately, she contin
ued, they did not place among the 
other five groups performing at the 
event.
The judges had only good things 
to say, Kenlon recounted. She and 
the rest of the troupe were also 
proud to have performed with the 
talented groups present at the com
petition.
The top placing a cappella group 
was an all-male glee club from 
Notre Dame University.
According to Mehta, the snow 
couch and television on the cut 
are the doing of Sound Bytes 
members.
by Beth Powell
Junior Staffwriter
Have you ever felt the urge to be 
an actor? You know, memorize 
lines and movements, develop a 
character, put on costumes and 
make-up, and perform in front of a 
live audience? What about per
forming in front of a live audience 
without knowing ahead of time 
what your lines are or what your 
character is? Well, thats exactly 
what The I2K Problem cast mem
bers did this past Friday and 
Saturday.
The show was almost entirely 
improvised. Improv itself is not 
new for Scotch n Soda, Carnegie 
Mellons student-run drama club. 
Past shows include Improv 88 
and Improv 98. However, this 
years show brought a new twist 
based on what Y2K could have 
done. Only about 10 minutes of 
the roughly hour and a half long 
show were actually scripted, and 
the actors were allowed to impro
vise within these written lines as 
well. As the director, Ayne 
Terceira, a senior professional 
writing major, put it, I didnt 
expect them to actually eat a 
Twinkie onstage. The script itself 
was written through a collabora
tive effort by the cast and crew. 
Mainly, the scripted part served as 
a way to introduce the show, give 
the actors a reason for performing 
the improv at that particular time, 
and wrap things up.
The show was based on the 
premise that an apocalypse 
brought on by the Y2K bug had 
wiped out almost everything on 
Earth, including all records of the
ater. Only six actors survived the 
apocalypse, and it was their mis
sion to make sure that theater sur
vived in the post-apocalyptic 
world. The audience members 
represented the other survivors. 
One lucky female audience mem
ber was selected to be the Wordgiver from whom the actors 
received their inspiration for per
forming the three rites of theater: 
character, spontaneity, and plot. 
For each of the three rites, the 
Word-giver was asked to give a 
word and then the rest of that sec
tion of the show was based on or 
somehow related to that word.
Of the six actors, five of them 
are from Scotch n Sodas improv 
group The No Parking Players. 
However, for senior Joshua 
Horan, a chemistry major, this 
show was a new experience. Its 
completely different from doing a 
standard drama production. I 
must say that, as different as it is 
from anything-Tve done before, it 
is great fun, he said. Its my 
favorite thing in the whole damn 
world, added cast member and 
member of the No Parking Players 
performance troupe Hunter 
Howe, a sophomore creative Writ
ing and human computer interac
tion major.
To prepare for a show such as 
this one, the most important thing 
was to establish trust between the
cast members. Rehearsals consisted of playing different games and ; 
placing the cast members in differ{ 
ent situations and giving them dif
ferent characters to develop. The 
actors were taught to react nor
mally to the situations presented - 
to them. After all, improv is what ! 
we all do every day of our lives.
The No Parking Players have a ! 
workshop group that is open to 
anyone as well as an auditioned . 
performance troupe. The perfor
mance troupe performs at Skibo 
Coffeehouse throughout the year 
and during sleeping bag week' 
ends. The troupe has also started - 
entertaining requests to perform j 
around the country. The group is i 
a subset of Scotch n Soda, which 
is a student-run organization that  
anyone can joinIts easy to be a 
member, according to cast mem
ber Geoff Plitt, a first-year student 
majoring in computer science. 
Just get involved, he said. 
Upcoming Scotch n Soda produc
tions include The Real Inspector 
Hound in March and Once Upon a 
Mattress for Spring Carnival.
Anthony D'Auria/Staff Photographer;.
John Perkins improvises a scene with Lisa Beiter on Friday night.
Interested in writing about cultural events and campus life? 
Then write for Livillg
email tartan@andrew.cmu.edu
Carnegie Almanac
; 50 YEARS AGO
; February 14, 1950  Frank A. Witt,
Special Committee Chairman of Student
!< Council, announced that all students vio> lating parking regulations would be sub; jected to a $5 fine. This new system
'} involved the issuing of two notices. The
:| first notice warned students that they had
; parked illegally. After receiving that
\ warning, a future violation would result
i in a second notice that informed them
j that a $5 fine had been assessed to their
\ student account. On the plans first day in
t practice, 33 warnings were given out.
'! One student was fined for parking illegal,1 ly twice during that day.,tH
; 25 YEARS AGO
February 4, 1975  The purpose of the 
>1 Resident Life program came under fire as 
\ members of the Residence Assistants staff 
}\ disagreed with Head Resident Peg Hairs 
; vision of the program. RAs from the Hill
dorms argued that Hair placed too much 
emphasis on programming instead of 
working to solve residents problems.
While some RAs felt that Hair should be 
replaced, others said that the problems 
were due primarily to personality con
flicts. RAs said they felt that helping 
ensure security, learning first aid, and 
publicizing the role of RAs were impor
tant priorities. Hair disagreed that those 
actions were important and requested 
that RAs keep a record of ping pong 
games, frisbee tosses, and other interac
tions in their areas. Some RAs felt that 
this request was unreasonable and unre
alistic.
10 YEARS AGO
February 6, 1990  Residents of 
Mudge House complained to Housing 
Mainten-ance of a mouse problem. After 
catching a mouse in one of the snap traps 
set up by Physical Plant, the problem was
believed to be over. Then, another five 
mice were caught in traps in a short peri
od of time. Students jeported seeing mice 
in dressers, crates, and bathrooms.
One student reported that bread in a 
dresser drawer was partially eaten by 
mice. Students who found mice in their 
rooms said they believed that the rodents 
travelled through holes that connect the 
base of the dressers and closets. These 
students also said that they were able to 
catch the mice using traps baited , with 
peanut butter.
Housing officials said that they were 
not notified of the problem until it 
became serious. They stressed that stu
dents must report these incidents as soon 
as possible so that they may effectively 
deal with them. In addition, Housing 
Maintenance Coordinator Ida Czarnecki 
said that mice are rare on campus and 
most complaints involved bees, roaches, 
fruit flies, and silverfish.
FIVE YEARS AGO
February 6, 1995  Pi Lambda Phi was 
forced to move out of its house by midsemester due-to the tragic death of Justin 
Chambers on December 11. A sophomore 
materials science and engineering stu
dent, Chambers died of alcohol poisoning 
at a private Christmas party the fraternity 
hosted. Brothers under the age of 21 who 
attended the party were given internal 
citations, sentenced to 25 hours of com
munity service, and placed on discipli
nary probation for a year. Those over 21 
faced misdemeanor charges of serving 
alcohol to minors. While it was unclear 
what would happen to. the house, it was 
speculated that Sig Tau, Gamma would 
move into it.
ONE YEAR AGO
February 1,1999  Philanthropist Paul 
Mellon died the previous Monday at his 
home in Upperville, VA at the age of 91.
He was instrumental in the 1967 merger . 
of Carnegie Tech and the Mellon institute, 
which was founded by his father, Andrew 
Mellon.
During a past capital campaign, Mellon 
bequeathed $15 million, with 10 going to 
CFA and five going to H&SS, according to 
Peter Stearns, dean of H&SS. In addition 
to his generosity, Mellon was known for 
his modesty.
The Mellon family has donated over 
$80 million to the school and most of the 
money given by Paul Mellon has been 
used to develop the H&SS and CFA. Paul 
Mellon was well-known for his philan
thropic efforts to support the arts, which 
included overseeing the construction of 
the National Gallery of Art in 
Washington. This project was conceived 
by Andrew Mellon before his death in 
1937.
Compiled by .
Seth Mandel
Sound Bytes performs impressively
Ef  i.e.
A
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Tjhe Sound Bytes a cappella group put on a stunning performance Friday night in Purnell's Chosky Theater.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 7, 2000
Learn the Power 
of Teams!
Launching your own start-up company requires many 
things: an idea, technology, capital. Most of all, it requires 
talent  finding the right people to turn your idea into a 
viable business. Join us for "Building a Winning Business 
Team" on Thursday, February 10, at 7 p.m. at the Sheraton 
Hotel Station Square. A panel of experts will present their 
experiences in identifying talent and building successful 
business teams.
CLAY DEUTSCH
Director,
McKinsey & Company 
ETHAN EVANS 
Director of Operations, CoManage Corporation
RANDY FRASINELLI
Managing Principal, 
Grant-Williams Associates
SEAN SEBASTIAN
Managing Principal, 
Birchmere Investments
In addition to the discussion, prizes will be awarded 
to three Phase 2 winning entries of the EnterPrize Business 
Plan Competition. The program will be followed by a 
networking event designed to help match teams with 
talented individuals looking for an opportunity to work 
with a start-up.
To register for this event or to team how you can 
participate in EnterPrize, Pittsburgh's Business Plan 
Competition, visit www.enterprizepgh.org or call 
(412) 804-3060.\
SnTERPRlZE
SPONSORED BY: ADAMS CAPITAI MANAGEMENT; BIRCHMERE INVESTMENTS; THE HEINZ ENDOWMENTS; INNOVATION 
WORKS; MORGAN, LEWIS S B0CWUS UP; SAFEGUARD SCIENTIFICS; TRIANGLE CAPITAL; AND VENTURE BANK @ PNC 
ORGANIZED BY: CARNEGIE MEUON UNIVERSI1Y; DUQUESNE UNIVERSIT; INNOVATION WORKS; MCKESSONHBOC 
AUTOMATED HEALTHCARE; MCKINSEY 8 COMPANY; PITTSBURGH TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL; AND UNIVERSITY OF. PITTSBURGH
 Two Summer Sessions
 French Immersion Program
 Desktop Publishing and Web 
Design Programs
 Cultural Excursions
The American University of Paris 
6 rue du Colonel Combes 
75007 Paris, France 
Tel. (33/1) 40 62 07 20 
Fax (33/1)47 05 34 32 
New York office: Tel. (212) 983-1414
o1 w i eo3
oI 31  1E **i w I1 8<* 11 efc 1INA *OS  % 
Website http://www.aup.edu Email summer@aup.eduUniversity of Hawaii at Mnoa, Summer Sessions
Virginia Tech prohibits surfing for money
VIRGINIA TECH (U-Wire)  Earning 
money for surfing the net may be 
attractive to Virginia Tech students, but 
the consequences might not be so
appealing.
Some websites are offering to pay 
people who surf the Internet for linking 
advertisers with consumers.
At Virginia Tech, such practices for 
commercial gain are prohibited.
One website offering pay is 
AllAdvantage.com, which will pay four 
million Internet surfers.
Any person who makes profit from 
Tech computer systems is breaking the 
university policy of information sys
tems, said Jeff Cullen, director of judi
cial affairs at Tech.
Its a violation of our university poli
cy (of information systems) for person
al commercial gain, Cullen said.
Techs acceptable use of information
systems policy prohibits students, fac
ulty and staff from utilizing email and 
web access for personal gain.
Tech information systems include 
PIDs, fileboxes, ethernet connections, 
modem pool connections, Tech email 
accounts and news servers.
Users at AllAdvantage.com can sign 
up at the companys website to become 
members. The company asks members 
to download a viewbar documenting 
their time on the Internet.
The viewbar flashes advertisements 
while the member is on line. Members 
can also earn extra money by recruiting 
other members.
AllAdvantage.com has not caused 
major complaints, Cullen said. His 
office receives three to five complaints 
per semester regarding the company. 
They come from people who receive 
AllAdvantage.com e-mails and say they
do not want them.
AllAdvantage.com members follow 
an anti-spam policy posted on their 
website.
The companys website encourages 
members to refer friends to the compa
ny. Another link on the companys web
page displays thousands of member 
dismissed for distribution of spam.
The university prohibits using Tech 
software and systems to circulate 
advertisements for products. Also, the 
policy prohibits the circulation of 
unwanted or intimidating mail, also 
known as spam.
If you send (the email) to everyone 
in your address book, you dont know 
who will want to get it, Cullen said.
According to the AllAdvantage.com 
website, members are paid 50 cents for 
every hour they actively surf the 
Internet.
Exhibition at The Frame offers 
unique form of self-expression
FRAME, page LI 
and Fletcher used tables, chairs, sticks of wood 
wrapped in barbed wire, trash cans, and chains 
to pummel each other in an all-out brawl that 
under any other circumstances would have 
prompted a visit from the campus police.
One opponent jumped on top of a table while 
the other brawler lay on top, crushing the table 
to pieces and leaving many a bruise on the par
ticipants. The pair even went so far as to use a 
cigarette to ignite a chair wrapped in a gaso
line-soaked towel. Amazingly, no one was ter
ribly hurt.
I was a little hurt, but it was nothing too 
serious, said Smith. I cut my arm and 
scratched my back and hands with the barbed 
wire.
We werent out to hurt each other, Fletcher 
said. We were friends before and were friends 
now. But 1 would like to add that the blood was
definitely real.
The motivations of artists are notoriously 
obscure, and it is just as difficult to decipher 
the meaning of this random display of human 
aggression. Where does one draw the line 
between what is art and what is merely an 
opportunity to legally vent years of pent-up 
anger? When asked why he participated in the 
show, Smith gave little information with which 
to answer that larger question.
I just enjoy being a showman, Smith said. 
I enjoy being entertaining.
And entertaining he was. Perhaps it is part of 
human nature to get enjoyment out of watch
ing our fellow man get the crap kicked out of 
him for no apparent reason. The popularity of 
the exhibitionism involved in professional 
wrestling would certainly seem to support this 
idea. But is it art? Perhaps that is precisely the 
question the performers intended to pose.
omething to 
mile about!
10% Courtesy for CMU Students and Faculty 
Take the CMC] shuttle to our front door  200 North Craig Street
summer sessions, hawail
6 weeks. 6 credits, as low as $2,800 (based on typical costs 
of tuition, room & board, books, and airfare)
Term 1: May 22-June 30  Term 2: July 3-August 11
www.outreach.hawaii.edu  toil-tree 1 (800) 862-6628
Want to impress your special someone 
this Valentine's Day? Do it with a 
Tartan Personal Valentine!
1-20 Words: $2 
21-50 Words: $3
Cash or check payable to The Tartan 
in advance. Drop off at UC Infodesk, 
Sox 119 by February 12.
Name:
Call 681-8011
Planning in Study Abroad?
Syracuse has our ticket!
Traverl FoSevi 
csraOsra * pteur 
nuALeLfJ * byerdJ
SYRACUSE f
STUDY ABROAD
119 Euclid Ave/Box D Syracuse, NY 13244 
800 235 3472 suabroad@syr.edu 
http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa
Ask about our CMC! 
Dental Plan!
Gentle Airjet Dentist 
Prompt Emergency Car 
Personaliz

---------------------------------------------------

Science ^Technology
7 February 2000THE TARTANPage It
New facility extends CMU into Silicon Valley
by Cynthia Kos
Staffwriter
While the University Center, 
Purnell Center, and Newell-Simon 
Hall visibly demonstrate our 
Universitys growth, town meetings 
have been held to discuss what the 
next stage in development should 
be. Should we expand down Forbes, 
or in the Panther Hollow? Well, 
why not to California?
Recently, President Jared L. 
Cohon has established a partnership 
between Carnegie Mellon and the 
NASA Ames Research Center to 
examine the possibility of develop
ing a branch campus in Silicon 
Valley. NASA has made available 
1,000 acres of government-owned 
property that CMU would potential
ly lease to construct a 212-acre cam
pus. The Silicon Valley-based cam
pus would house informational 
technology and research programs 
that would collaborate with NASA 
and NASA Research Park affliates,
as well as graduate and executive 
education programs in information 
technology. The exact size of these 
programs is yet to be determined, 
and possibilities of other programs 
still exist. The plans are still prelim
inary, with only a Memorandum of 
Understanding signed between 
President Cohon and NASA Ames 
Research Center Director, Henry 
McDonald.
We have a good relationship, 
said Duane Adams, Vice Provost 
for Research. And NASA values 
our reputation in information 
technology.
NASA would benefit from the 
capability to address a continual 
need for smart robots and space
craft, as well as improved software 
development methods and large 
database analysis from the comput
er science research that Carnegie 
Mellon would provide.
Silicon Valley is the capital of 
information technology. Having a 
presence there will help us attract 
additional organizations to
courtesy Carnegie Mellon News
CMU might soon partner with the NASA Ames Research Center. The above 
administration building is located in Moffett Field, California.
Pittsburgh, said Adams.
The importance of this agreement 
has also been cited by President 
Cohon as an outstanding opportu
nity for our university, the 
Pittsburgh region, and the state of 
Pennsylvania.
There is a possibility that other
groups will look into a similar 
expansion in Silicon Valley.
Whether other universities will 
do something similar remains to be 
seen, said Adams.
As of now, it appears that these 
developments are unique to 
Carnegie Mellon.
Tech tax helps students
courtesy NASA
The above picture shows the Nomad robot last week 
in Antarctica, where it conducted an autonomous 
search for meteorites. It successfully examined 
more than 100 indigenous rocks and classified 
seven specimens as meteorites. The robot made its 
discoveries in Elephant Moraine, 160 miles north
west of the United States base at McMurdo Station. 
The area is an important site for meteorite discovery, 
with nearly 2,000 specimens. This is the first time 
that a robot has relied only on sensors and artificial 
intelligence to find a meteroite among common 
rocks. It demonstrates advanced perception, con
trol, navigation, and scientific search technologies, 
and is a precursor to future terrestrial exploration on 
Mars and the moon. The Antarctic Meteorite Search 
is lead by the Carnegie Mellon Robotics Institute 
and is funded by grants from NASAs Surface 
Systems Thrust of the Cross Enterprise Technology 
Development and Space Telerobotics programs.
by Thaddeus Billman
Staffwriter
This past Thursday, 
Governor Ridge called for a 
sales tax holiday on comput
ers and computer equipment. 
The proposal calls for two 
one-week periods where con
sumers would not be charged 
Pennsylvanias six percent 
sales tax on computer pur
chases, nor would they be 
charged the extra one percent 
tax found in Philadelphia and 
Allegheny counties. The first 
period would take place in 
August, corresponding to the 
start of the school year, and 
the second would take place 
in February of 2001.
A plethora of items would 
be tax-exempt, including per
sonal computers, disk drives, 
memory modules, CD-ROM 
drives and disks, modems, 
printers, scanners, monitors, 
keyboards, mouses, and sin
gle-user licensed software. 
However, not all items would 
be exempt. Mainframes, 
servers, networking equip
ment, and multi-user licensed
software would all be subject 
to the normal tax. Business 
purchases would also be sub
ject to tax.
A recent report released by 
the United States Commerce 
Department, titled Falling 
Through the Net: Defining 
the Digital Divide, has 
brought the issue of computer 
ownership gaps to the front of 
many politicians minds.
The report shows that 
Caucasians, urban dwellers, 
and the rich are more likely 
to own a computer than their 
counterparts. Governor 
Ridge believes the problem 
to be particularly bad in 
Pennsylvania, citing a 1999 
report that shows only 39 
percent of Pennsylvanians 
own a computer, compared 
to the national average of 42 
percent.
According to the Pittsburgh 
Post Gazette, he argues that 
the state needs to take action 
to increase computer owner
ship among its citizens. His 
proposal is intended to make 
computers more accessible to 
African-Americans, rural 
dwellers, and the poor.
However, one group that 
may benefit from the propos
al is college students. It 
would help students who are 
on a tight budget get a com
puter without having the 
extra cost of tax, said Jon 
Bradbury, sophomore electri
cal and computer engineering 
major.
Students at high tech uni
versities such as Carnegie 
Mellon, will receive the great
est benefit. The subgroup of 
CMU that will have the most 
need for the tax break, the 
incoming freshmen, may not 
know it.
Many students will have 
already bought computers in 
other states or will buy one 
here a week early or a week 
late. Furthermore, many stu
dents buy computer equip
ment online, out-of-state. 
Such sales are already taxexempt, so it will provide no 
benefit in such cases.
Governor Ridges staff esti
mates that the state would 
lose $8.3 million in uncollect
ed tax from the two events. In 
addition, Allegheny County 
would lose about $200,000.
Professor wins international technology research award
by Sriram Gollapalli
Science & Technology Editor
Professor Danny Sleator of the Computer 
Science Department and Bob Tarjan of Princeton 
University recently won the 1999 Kanellakis 
Theory and Practice Award by the Association for 
Computing Machinery (ACM) for their invention 
of the splay tree data structure.
This award honors specific theoretical accom
plishments that have had a significant and 
demonstrable effect on the practice of comput
ing. Along with the honor comes a $5,000 prize, 
that will be split between Sleator and Tarjan.
Its great to win the award, said Sleator. But 
its more gratifying to see the impact of the work
- the myriad of applications that use splay trees.
Splay trees are a simple and efficient selfadjusting data structure for storing ordered sets. 
They can be found in many different software 
applications across different computing plat
forms. Examples of the uses of splay trees are 
found throughout Microsoft Windows NT for a 
wide variety of applications: the virtual memory 
system, the networking code, and in the file sys
tem. The most widely used implementation of 
them is in malloc, a memory allocation tool for 
Unix systems. The Lotus word processor, AmiPro, 
uses them for data compression and encryption 
techniques. They are also used in sed, the wellknown Unix system editor.
Sleator and Tarjan worked on these data struc
tures for many years. The work was done in the
early 80s, but they waited about 17 years to give 
us the award, said Sleator. The paper on which 
it is based was published in 1985.
CMU professors also won last years Kanellakis 
Award, which was given to Randy Bryant, 
Edward Clarke, and Kenneth McMillan (PhD 
alumnus) for their work on symbolic model 
checking.
Founded in 1947, ACM is the worlds first edu
cational and scientific computing society. There 
are over 80,000 computing professionals and stu
dents around the world.
After taxes this will be like $1,500, said 
Sleator. Ill spend it on a new bicycle. Replace 
the one that was stolen, which actually cost about 
$500. Maybe Ill buy a drill press with the rest of 
the money.
Top schools focus on science, engineering
(U-WIRE) STANFORD, Calif. - 
Stanford and other top universities 
are making huge new investments 
in science and engineering infra
structure.
Even schools traditionally associ
ated with the humanities and social 
sciences have joined the trend. Yale 
University, for example, recently 
announced an initiative to invest 
$500 million in science and engi
neering facility upgrades.
Yales announcement follows sim
ilar, though less ambitious, pro
grams at Harvard and Princeton. 
And last October, Stanford chris
tened its new $120 million Science 
and Engineering Quad, and 
received a $150 million donation 
from Netscape founder Jim Clark for 
the new Bio-X program, which will 
integrate basic science, medicine, 
and engineering.
Both Harvard and Yale are seek
ing to strengthen and expand both 
engineering and applied science 
activities, said Malcolm Beasley, 
dean of the School of Humanities
and Sciences. My sense is that at a 
deep level, this is trying to create 
the proper balance of the modern 
university between traditional liber
al arts and engineering.
Yales plan, which includes the 
construction of five buildings, will 
increase research space and 
upgrade existing classrooms and 
labs. In addition, Yale announced 
that it would create an environ
mental campus and a molecular 
campus that would be connected 
indoors, allowing for easier travel 
between science facilities.
Yale hopes to revitalize its science 
and engineering departments, 
which, according to the Yale Office 
of Public Affairs, have been weaker 
than its arts, humanities, and social 
sciences programs.
Beasley said that Stanford, as a 
much younger university than those 
in the Ivy League, has always placed 
a larger emphasis on engineering.
Is there a greater emphasis on 
science and engineering at 
Stanford? The answer is self-evi
dently yes, said professor of history
Bart Bernstein.
Stanford is representative of a 
trend in competitive private educa
tion where more and more under
graduates are keyed to personal 
achievement and success, said 
Comparative Literature professor 
Seth Lerer.
However, according to Beasley 
and other members of the humani
ties faculty, Stanfords apparent 
bias toward engineering may not be 
as large as it seems.
The needs in the humanities are 
often smaller, because projects are 
often on a smaller scale, Beasley said.
Bernstein also noted that it is 
more expensive to hire faculty in sci
ence and engineering than it is in 
the humanities.
One of the related problems is 
that if a science department wants 
to hire somebody, they have to out
fit a lab that may cost half a million 
dollars, he said. If you want to hire 
a history professor, for example, 
there is no startup cost; we already 
have books in history.
Furthermore, Lerer and Beasley
Robots need to help our lives
THE GEEK BEAT
by Kevin Babbitt
I was originally going to present 
a technology wish list for this 
week, until I realized that pretty 
much all of my wishes have been 
fulfilled. I can keep all the informa
tion I need at my fingertips with 
my PalmPilot. I can stay in touch 
with anyone, anywhere with a cel
lular telephone (though I still dont 
have one because, having seen this 
wish play itself out, I wonder 
whether its more of a curse than a 
blessing). I can get information on 
just about anything and even buy 
just about anything from the com
forts of home, but I can still go out 
and browse in stores.
Looking back, about the only 
thing I dont have that I could have 
wanted from technology 10-15 
years ago is robots. Remember 
back in the mid-80s when robots 
were neat? (Or did I just date 
myself?) I remember a great robot
ics exhibit at the Museum of 
Science in Boston. It featured a 
number of industrial robots doing 
their thing, as well as a talking 
robot that promised smart 
machines to help make life easier 
in many ways. There were toy 
robots in the stores that ran 
around, bumping into things. 
There were build-your-own-robot 
kits. There were movies about 
robots.
But wheres the real thing? 
Wheres the little robot that I can 
send to the kitchen to fetch me a can 
of soda when Im thirsty? Wheres 
the talking robotic arm to haul my 
butt out of bed when Im tempted to 
sleep in and miss class? Wheres the 
robotic maid that will do something 
about the festering pile of stuff my 
roommate has left on our floor?
The ironic thing is, Im writing 
this column at a university known 
around the world for its research in 
robotics. And its true that robotics 
has come a long way since I visited 
that exhibit in Boston. Weve 
already applied robotics to a num
ber of areas, including manufac
turing, exploration, and tasks haz-; 
ardous to humans (such as toxic' 
spill cleanups). The problem is that' 
these are all industrial applica-' 
tions. Were not that far from hav-' 
ing cars that drive themselves, but 
when will we see other consumer 
applications of robotics?
More importantly, what are we! 
waiting on? There are still some, 
extremely tough computational 
and mechanical open problems in 
robotics, but the technology exists 
to construct at least rudimentary 
home robots. I mean, all it would 
take to get me out of bed in the 
morning is a hydraulic arm 
attached to one side of my bed and 
controlled by an alarm clock. At 8 
am, the buzzer goes off, to give me 
at least a chance of getting up 
gracefully. At 8:05 am, it says, 
Good morning, Kevin. Time to get 
up. At 8:10 am, the arm extends, 
tilting my bed to one side so that I 
roll out the other. Fortunately, lj 
dont have a loft. J
So we return to my.last question. 
I dont understand why there has
nt been much work done on con
sumer robotics. I dont think Tml 
deluding myself into thinking' 
theres a market for that sort of: 
thing  who wouldnt want an 
automatic drink-fetcher for when 
theyre parked in front of the TV? 
Lack of funding may well be the 
issue, but it doesnt make sense to 
me that private industries and the 
government are willing to fund 
robots to go into space, but no! 
ones willing to fund work on per-! 
sonal conveniences. My intent is! 
not to encourage laziness, only to; 
further the core reasons we devel-; 
op new technologies to begin with; 
 automation and convenience.
Kevin Babbitt is a senior computerscience major. and a Tartan! 
Contributing Editor. He never gets! 
any comments on his column, so', 
hed appreciate anything you have to', 
say.
Science Briefs
Blood substitute
Chien Ho, Alumni Professor of 
Biological Sciences, might have 
found a solution to the shortage of 
blood donors. In his lab at the 
Mellon Institute, Ho has developed 
a compound known as a hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier, a varia
tion of the protein in human blood 
that carries oxygen.
It is non-toxic and can remain in 
circulation while the body replen
ishes its supply of red blood cells. It 
can be stored for at least six months 
to a year before being used - much 
longer than normal red blood cells 
that have a shelf life of only 42 days.
X-ray captures 
star bursts
The work of a team of NASA sci
entists, including a Carnegie Mellon
professor, has paid off. Their pro-; 
ject, an X-ray observatory in orbit1 
around Earth, has imaged the center 
of the nearest starburst galaxy,! 
Messier 82 (M82). A starburst, 
galaxy is one whose stars are! 
formed and destroyed much more! 
quickly than our own.
The NASA observatory, called the; 
Chandra X-ray Observatory is the; 
worlds most powerful X-ray tele-; 
scope. Richard Griffiths, a professor; 
of astrophysics at Carnegie Mellon, 
worked with scientists from NASA, 
and other universities to develop the 
telescope.
In the disk of our Milky Way 
galaxy, stars form and die in a rela
tively calm fashion like burning 
embers in a campfire, said 
Griffiths. But in a starburst galaxy, 
star birth and death are more like 
explosions in a fireworks factory. 
Compiled by 
Sriram Gollapalli & Jonathan Pearce
claim that efforts to improve 
humanities programs are harder to 
measure. The school certainly sup
ports initiatives in the humanities, 
Beasley said, but these humanities 
efforts have been more program
matic.
Beasley also pointed out that the 
University made a large capital 
investment last year with the recon
struction of the Cantor Arts Center.
Humanities is about people. Its 
not about buildings and labs, Lerer 
said. I think everybody recognizes 
that its really hard to recruit and 
keep good people because its much 
more amorphous.
Beasley emphasized that Stanford 
is committed to providing students 
with a high quality of education in 
all disciplines.
Stanford is in the business of pro
ducing very well-educated leaders, 
in whatever walk of life we have 
programs in, Beasley said. And 
thats exactly what we should do. 
We firmly believe we need to have 
strong programs in all the areas we 
represent.
Band-aids for airplanes
Heres an interesting science 
note this week: the Federal 
Aviation Administration (FAA) 
has given the thumbs-up to a new 
band-aid for airplanes.
You may not have realized that 
jumbo jets get boo-boos just like 
the rest of us. Take-offs, landings, 
rapid temperature changes, and 
turbulence all take their toll on an 
airplanes aluminum skin.
These daily stresses cause tiny 
cracks and internal flaws to form, 
then grow into bigger cracks and 
bigger problems.
Airplane doctors used to repair 
these aircraft by bolting hard 
metal plates on top of the cracks. 
But the stiff plates and the bolts 
were causing new cracks to form.
So the FAA and Sandia National 
Laboratories came up with a soft
er, gentler solution: bandages.
These new flexible airplane 
band-aids are really patches of
Reagan Heller/Art Stall
thin tape.
They give aging airplanes the 
gift of new life virtually 
overnight.
So everybodys happy, and 
band-aids save the airlines tens of 
thousands of dollars.
And you get to concentrate on 
those gremlins on the wing!
National Public Radio con
tributed to this article.

---------------------------------------------------

Summer Schedule on Webwww.westmoreland.cc.pa.us_:
or call I -800-262-2103
Who wants to be anENTREPRENEUR
_ _ .........................
Now's the time to test your skill. Enter the UEA Case Competition. Learn how to develop a business opportunity and compete for cash.
$3,000IN CASH PRIZES!
Three cash prizes to be awarded: 
$1,500; $1,000; $500. 
Open to all CMU undergrad students. 
Phase One begins February 14, 2000. 
See full details at our web site.
Enter now at www.andrew.cmu.edu/~uea
UNDERGRADUATE 
I LlfcsLlJ ENTREPRENEURSHIP ASSOCIATION
The Tartan is about to revamp many
dO the f 'tS Processes and wil1 use digitaltools to do it. We need students with 
experience in ASP, SQL, HTML, and 
contextual design. Come help us. 
tartan@andrew
THE TARTAN SGRUNT work
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, fluffy 
linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Street's 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMG/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http://www.shadysideinn.com
On-Campus Recruiting At 
Carnegie Mellon 
by L.P. Thebault Company
Company Profile:Information Session:
For more than 45 years, the L.P. Thebault CompanyL.P. Thebault will condut and information session
has been producing superior communications productsabout the company on February 14,2000 from
for some of the worlds most exacting and respected6:30p-8:30pm, located in Porter hall, room A20.
businesses, agencies and design firms. The quality andAll Seniors and recent graduates are welcome to
sophistication of our work and the expensiveattend!
knowledge of our staff have earned us a leading
position among the countrys most prestigiousInterview Session:
commercial printers:Our "open scheduling" interview session will be
February 15,2000. It is located at the Career
Career Opportunities:Center, 19 Warner Hall, 5000 Forbes Ave.
Sales Trainee positionsIf you would like to learn more about our
Entry-level positions in graphic arts/print industries toinformation or interview sessions, please contact
participale in a 18-36 month plant-wide trainingcareer Services at (412) 268-2064.
program that may lead lo careers in sales and/orIf you would like to contact us directly, you can
customer service.reach us at:
We offer:L.P. Thebault Company
 Competitive salariesAttention: Nancy Podest/Human Resources
 Full range of Benefits249 Pomeroy Road
 Challenging EnvironmentParsippany, New Jersey 07054
 Recognition for your effortsEmail resumes to: jobs@thebault.com
 Career Advancement Training ProgramsCompany website: www.thebault.com
A SCIITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM9
L. P. THEBAULT COMPANY
Academic couple seeks:
EGG DONOR 21-28
For East Coast clinic. Right candidate compensated approx.
$7500 plus expenses. Outstanding SATs and academics, 
analytical, even-tempered, Caucasian, dark hair/eyes, olive 
complexion, even-featured, 5'7" or taller, and lean/athletic 
build. Please describe motivation along w/ several 
|returnable] photos to: POB 22, W. Kingston, RI 02892 
All serious replies answered.
Y2 Play?
More Parties More Action 
Best Hotels Best Prices
2 ^ r\ 
1.800.426.7710
sunsplashtours.com
Vwf
ummir @onnt
College Credit at WCCC
Credits transfer to colleges and universities 
throughout the U.S. 
convenient locations
Tuition is only $-18 per credit for Westmoreland 
County residents, one of the best values in 
Pennsylvania.
Convenient sessions with no Friday classes
May 15 - June 22 (6 weeks)
May 15 - August 3(12 weeks)
June 26 - August 3 (6 weeks)
WESTMORELAND COUNTY 
COMMUNITY COLLEGEAn affirmative, action, equal opportunity college.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
7 February 2000THE TARTANPagc 1.5
Squirrel Hill dishes out tasty American fare
DINING OUT
by Becca Fribush
Contributing Editor
There comes a time in every stu
dents life when Gulliftys just wont 
do. As much as you love the giant 
wedgies and Killer Kookies at 
Gulliftys, you want somewhere dif
ferent, somewhere classier, some
where with live music rather than 
80s tunes played over a loudspeak
er. Sweet Basil is for ___________
that time.
Sweet Basil may be 
just blocks from ubiq
uitous Squirrel Hill 
student dining spots 
like Gulliftys and Eat 
' n Park, but it feels far 
away. This upscale 
American restaurant 
definitely is a change 
of pace.
The menu encom
passes food for every 
taste, from vegetarian 
sandwiches or plain 
grilled chicken for the 
health-minded to 
fried ravioli topped 
with tomato sauce 
and eggplant or burg
ers and fries for the non-diet-con
scious. Whatever you order, dinner 
probably wont blow your budget 
too badly, with sandwiches between 
$5.95 and $8.95 and entrees from 
$7.95 to $13.95.
Sweet Basils elegance is apparent 
even from its exterior  all red 
brick with big windows and a cute 
little flag with the restaurants name
on it. The dining room inside is light 
and airy, with framed photographs 
arranged on its white walls. The pic
tures tend to be mainly of children 
being adorable and happy couples 
hugging in front of sunsets but, if 
you dont look at them for too long, 
you can still retain all of your 
appetite.
This is a good thing, because you 
dont want to miss the appetizers. 
We started off with spinach and artiThe salads are also great. The side 
salad consists just of lettuce with 
shredded cheese and lots of red 
onions, but the freshness of the 
ingredients makes it incredibly 
tasty, especially with the tangy basil 
vinaigrette dressing. Its worth 
ordering even if you dont get one 
with your meal.
Unfortunately, the main courses 
arent as uniformly good as the 
appetizers and salads. Most of them
Sweet Basil Bar and Grille
Ratings
Food:B 
Atmosphere: A 
Service: A 
Value: B
Price Range: $8-$14/entre 
Overall: ABecca Fribush/Contributing Editor
5882 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
choke dip, which turned out to be 
delicious. We used warm pita chips 
to scoop up every last mouthful of 
the artichoke-studded dip, which 
seemed to incorporate as much 
cheese as spinach. Other good appe
tizers include the pizzeti and the 
pizza bread, both of which are vari
ations on the theme of bread with 
vegetables and stuff on top.
get some parts perfect and some 
parts less-than-perfect. For exam
ple, the dry beef in the beef brisket 
sandwich was partly counteracted 
by the yummy barbecue sauce. The 
fettucine a la grecque  with 
shrimp, chopped tomatoes, and 
olives  had a great mix of ingredi
ents but was so oily that I consid
ered finding a paper towel and blotting it. On the other hand, a Jacks 
Vegetarian sandwich  tomatoes, 
sprouts, lettuce, onions, and cheese 
with poppy-seed dressing on wholegrain bread  was evenly good 
except for being on the small side.
Whatever the shortcomings of 
your entre may be, Sweet Basil Bar 
and Grille definitely has some nice 
non-food touches that help make up 
for them. Besides the attractive din
ing room, there are the musicians
____________ who occasionally
pop up to play
___________ instrumental jazz
numbers, and the 
attentive service.
Nicest of all are 
the Andes mints that 
your waiter thought
fully brings with the 
check. You can get 
real desserts, too, 
including apple pie, 
carrot cake, and a 
peanut butter pie in 
a chocolate cookie 
crust. But these 
desserts, while per
fectly adequate, 
cant begin to com
pare in excitement 
with, say, a Killer 
Kookie. Oh, well, next time you can 
always try the appetizers available 
at Sweet Basil followed by one of 
those award-winning desserts from 
Gulliftys which is just around the
The best way to get to Sweet Basil 
Bar and Grille is to take the 61 A or B 
up Forbes Avenue to Squirrel Hill.
Great year in film creates tight Oscar race
by Greg Nofi
Entertainment Editor
The 72nd Annual Academy Awards are coming 
up on March 26, but the nomination announce
ment is only a week away. Members of the 
Acadeipy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences 
had to complete their ballots by last Friday.
The voters faced a fairly difficult task due to 
the quality of movies in 1999, which was much 
superior to some of the weaker years before it. 
There were some noticeable characteristics 
about the better movies: creative directing, fresh 
narration, and even increased length of the 
movie.
Now, lets take a look at the top nominee con
tenders for the major categories, plus an early 
guess about the favorite.
Best Supporting Actor
Head of the Pack: No one really stands out. This 
may be the tightest race of the evening.
Certainly Qualified: Although hes not head and 
shoulders above the crowd, Tom Cruise will most
likely be on the nomination list. In more ways than 
one, his character in Magnolia was truly powerful. 
Will the voters appreciate Jude Laws acting in The 
Talented Mr. Ripley as much as females loved his 
looks? Perhaps the promising young star Wes 
Bentley from American Beauty will be at the cere
mony with camcorder in hand. Finally, Michael 
Caine may be rewarded for his usual classy perfor
mance in The Cider House Rules.
Long Shots: In a perfect world, Mark Wahlberg 
from Three Kings and 11-year-old Haley Joel 
Osment from The Sixth Sense would get decent 
consideration. But will they? Also, Rhys Ifans 
has a really long shot for his effectively English 
sleazeball role in Notting Hill.
Guess for the Winner: Even though Rosie 
ODonnell doesnt talk about him as much these 
days since Eyes Wide Shut, Cruise is definitely 
redefining himself as a potent act. He may be the 
one to seduce and destroy the Oscar trophy.
Best Supporting Actress
Head of the Pack: Chloe Sevigny was extremely 
poignant in Boys Don't Cry. Catherine Keener 
was just as evil in Being John Malkovich. They
will be tough acts to beat, although Cameron 
Diazs equally major role in Being John Malkovich' 
may take away from Keeners chances.
Certainly Qualified: Angelina Jolie won the 
Golden Globe award in this category for her per
formance in Girl, Interrupted, but it may be a 
while before the majority of the Academy takes 
this former TV movie standout seriously. As 
mentioned before, Diaz shocked many people 
with her smooth performance. And although 
some critics felt that her role may have been 
unnecessary in Magnolia, Julianne Moore may 
get the nod.
Long Shot: The long shots both come from The 
Talented Mr. Ripley: Cate Blanchett and Gwyneth 
Paltrow. However, they may be overshadowed by 
the male performances in that film.
Guess for the Winner: Chloe Sevigny. The movie 
may not get the Oscar recognition it deserves, but 
the acting in Boys Dont Cry was superb, and I 
think at least that will be rewarded.
Best Actor
Head of the Pack: Naturally, everyones talking 
See OSCARS, page L7
 box bearctiiignt Pictures
Chloe Sevigny (left) and Hilary Swank from Boys Don't Cry could provide a one-two punch at the 72nd Academy Awards in March.
Cheap Movies
(for cheap students)
movies you may have seen before
BY ANDY FRANCIS
Twin Falls Idaho
Thursday, February 10
otteHow much do I wish I was there when twin brothers Mark 
and Michael Polish dreamed up this one? I bet theywere sit
ting around, totally devoid of ideas, and one of them sudden
ly thought, Wait a minute, we look exactly the same as each 
other! Lets make a movie where were like, Siamese twins, 
and one of us is in really good health and the other one is sick, 
and this hot chick wants to date the healthy one! Naturally, 
the other guy says, Youre a genius! Can I be the frail one, 
and not get any action?
1 bet youre waiting for the part of this article where I 
explain the actual plot of the film. Stop it. I already told you 
the premise  you think I made up that Siamese twins bit? 
Thatd definitely be in bad taste, and Id probably stop reading 
my own articles if I had actually made it up.
Go watch for yourself  this movies won a lot of critical 
acclaim and is nothing if not original. As much as any Siamese 
twin movie Ive ever heard of, anyway.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, 12:30 am 
In McConomy Auditorium
The Best Man
Friday, February 11
In stark contrast to Thursdays film, The Best Man focuses on 
a man (Taye Diggs) who has just published a book about his 
life as a Siamese twin before meeting some old friends to 
attend a college pals wedding. Alright, fine, the books not 
about Siamese twins at all, but his friends arent too pleased 
with its too-true-to-real-life content.
Of course, the book leads to all sorts of trouble before the 
upcoming nuptials, setting the stage for much of this charm
ing movie. One of the films strong points is its solid cast, with 
stars like Nia Long, Morris Chestnut, Harold Perrineau, Jr., 
and a bunch of other people who I could also pretend Ive 
heard of. I could just keep listing names and youd never be 
the wiser. But thats beside the point.
Well, if you really want to see a romantic comedy revolving 
around an upcoming marriage and absolutely cant wait until 
Saturday, this is the movie for you. Plus, it marks the writingdirecting debut of filmmaker and Spike Lee cousin Malcolm 
Lee, who, although possibly riding on Spikes fame, probably 
has a lot more talent than Frank Stallone.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, 12:30 am 
In McConomy Auditorium
Runaway Bride
Saturday, February 12 
Whats with all the marriage-themed movies this weekend? 
As if The Best Man and Godzilla vs. the Smog Monster werent 
enough, now we get yet another movie about weddings. 
Fortunately, this one stars Julia Roberts, who is much cuter 
than Godzilla (and occasionally the Smog Monster) and who 
provides anything she stars in with 100 percent of its daily 
allowance of charm. I think if she had starred in The Exorcist, 
vomiting pea soup would be a huge trend (and much cooler 
than, say, tiny backpacks or jelly shoes).
In any event, this is the big-screen reunion of Roberts and 
Richard Gere youve been pining for since Pretty Woman, 
unless, of course, youre male. I guess its not fair to imply 
that this movie doesnt have cross-gender appeal  there 
were plenty of guys who enjoyed Runaway Bride, especially if 
their girlfriends told them to. Nevertheless, this is a very 
watchable movie  not quite Citizen Kane, but not Meet the 
Deedles either.
I dont get why Citizen Kane is so great. Best movie of alltime? Its not even in color!
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, 12:30 am 
In McConomy Auditorium
Godzilla vs. the Smog Monster
Sunday, February 13
Offense:
Godzilla breathes fire
The Smog Monster breathes poisonous gas
Advantage: Godzilla
Experience:
Godzilla starred in 1998s Godzilla 
The Smog Monster died in 1971 
Advantage: The Smog Monster
Intangibles:
Godzilla is the King of Monsters
The Smog Monster has a pulled hamstring
Advantage: Godzilla
Line: Godzilla by 3
At 8 pm, 10 pm, midnight 
In McConomy Auditorium

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 7, 2000
New Music
Bach gets lost in translation
Album Title: WorldBeat Bach 
Artist: Richard Stoltzman 
Label: RCA Victor 
Release Date: February 2000
by Andy Francis
Senior Staffwriter
out of four stars
WorldBeat Bach, the latest effort from jazz clar
inetist Richard Stoltzman, is an ambitious attempt 
to mix classical pieces by Johann Sebastian Bach 
together, with African and Third World rhythms.
Although classical purists will most likely regard 
Stoltzmans album as a watering-down of Bachs 
legendary compositions, its a credit to Stoltzman 
that he has chosen not to simply rehash Bachs orig
inals. Unfortunately, these new arrangements and 
world-beat influences drown out much of the 
musics grand sweep, and result in a rather tedious 
album.
As much as the liner notes trumpet the rhythmic 
aspect of the music (each tracks genre is listed next 
to its title), the musics beat takes a back seat to 
Stoltzmans solos. Supposedly, WorldBeat Bach fea
tures Bossa Nova, Flamenco, Spanish, Afro-Cuban, 
and other styles, but for the most part the rhythms 
are slight variations on the same quiet, shuffling 
beat. Instead, Stoltzmans seamless playing and 
Bachs familiar, hummable melodies provide the 
musics real pleasures, particularly in Minuet and 
Jesu, Joy of Mans Desiring.
Nonetheless, Stoltzmans ability is never in ques
tion during this record  it takes a fair amount of 
inventiveness for a frontman clarinetist to keep a 
listeners attention for 60 minutes. However, 
pianist Jeremy Walls considerable reworkings 
transform Bachs works into something more close
ly resembling Muzak than the heartbeat of the 
world sound that Stoltzman and his band are seek
ing. Its hard to fault Stoltzman for trying to blend 
these seemingly incongruous musical styles, but 
WorldBeat Bach makes one wish hed tried to make 
it a bit more fun.
Artist transcends spoken-word
jjo.ngstorshortj
Album Title: Long Story Short 
Artist: Sekou Sundiata 
Label: Righteous Babe 
Release Date: February 2000out of four stars
by Cassandra Knight
Contributing Editor
Sekou Sundiata uses brassy melodies over strong 
beats in his spoken-word album, Long Story Short. 
With obvious influences from R&B, jazz, funk, and 
hip-hop, he creates a distinctive style unlike other
spoken-word albums. The artists in this genre focus 
more on lyrics than do pop music artisits. This album 
is no exception to that, with several songs about 
famous African-Americans, such as Nelson Mandela, 
Mary J. Blige, John Coltrane, and Malcolm X.
Taking from a cornucopia of sounds, Sundiata uses 
a variety of instruments and styles that provide depth 
and diversity. One such example is in the track, Isle 
de Goree, in which Craig Harris is featured playing 
with the didjeridoo. He also gives his music richness 
with his jazzy guitar riffs and background vocals. 
These melodic instruments give these songs the 
melodies that this gem;e sometimes lacks. Sundiata 
uses the rhythms of the drums and bass to compliment 
the flow of his lyrics spoken in his smooth voice.
He speaks to the black mans lament, especially in 
songs like Urban Music. His lyrics invoke images of 
the type of racism that is common in todays society. 
These lyrics are much deeper and more creative than, 
anything that is written by most of todays popular 
musicians on the Billboard Top Ten right now. In a 
time where poetry in song lyrics seems to be de
emphasized, perhaps even lost all together, Sundiata 
brings us that poetiy which stimulates our minds.
In the extremely different style of spoken-word, 
Sundiata fares well. Many of his songs are strong and 
pleasant, though there are some that just seem to 
peter out. The intensity and fire of tracks such as 
Droppin Revolution is offset by slow tracks, such as 
Not the Heat, which does not seem to have the same 
soul; it just seems to lose energy. However, the weak
nesses do not undermine the strength of his voice.
American Beauty, The Talented Mr. Ripley rank among favorites at Academy Awards
OSCARS, from L6
about Kevin Spacey in American Beauty. 
Hes definitely a top candidate. Then theres 
Denzel Washington in The Hurricane. 
Although the buzz didnt last long, many felt 
it was the performance of his career.
Certainly Qualified: People who were pre
viously snubbed by the Oscars may fare bet
ter this time around. Like Spacey, Russell 
Crowes acting in L.A. Confidential may have 
been overlooked. But, again like Spacey, he 
may get some attention, with his role in The 
Insider. And even though The Truman Show 
was a much better movie than Man on the 
Moon,. JimCarrey may get a nomination this 
time around after winning the Golden 
Globe last month. And finally, Matt Damons 
really coming around with The Talented Mr. 
Ripley. Expect to see him on Oscar night.
Long Shot: A1 Pacino was also very solid in
The Insider. But with Crowe in the picture, 
Pacino may not be granted his ninth Oscar 
nomination.
Guess for the Winner: American Beauty will 
get a fair share of the awards, but I have a 
feeling that Washington will walk home 
with the Oscar. He already beat out Spacey 
at the Golden Globes last month in this cat
egory.
Best Actress
Head of the Pack: Annette Bening in 
American Beauty and Hilary Swank in Boys 
Dont Cry were both wild in 1999. Theyre 
also the favorites.
Certainly Qualified: The rest of the field is 
a bit hazy. Theres Janet McTeer from the 
very independent Tumbleweeds. Then there 
are actresses with household names, but 
whose movies werent so hot. Keep your eye
on Susan Sarandon (Anywhere But Here, 
Cradle Will Rock), Meryl Streep (Music of the 
Heart), and Jodie Foster (Anna and The 
King).
Long Shot: Again, Reese Witherspoon 
should definitely get some consideration for 
her role as an overachieving high school stu
dent in Election. But then again, it was. a 
summer release and for some reason the 
Academy kind of frowns on that time of 
year.
Guess for the Winner: Hilary Swank. I have 
a gut feeling that Boys Dont Cry is going to 
sweep the actress awards.
Best Director
Head of the Pack: Like the Supporting 
Actor award, there are really no standouts. 
Or to be more accurate, there are so many 
standouts that no single director is head and
shoulders above everyone else.
Certainly Qualified: Paul Thomas
Anderson for Magnolia, Spike Jonze for 
Being John Malkovich, Sam Mendes for 
Magnolia, Anthony Minghella for The 
Talented Mr. Ripley, and David O. Russell for 
Three Kings are all deserving of this award 
and could easily win it in an off-year. This 
year though, the competitions tough.
Long Shot: In case you missed it, the 
bizarre David Lynch directed another 
bizarre gem this year called The Straight 
Story.
Guess for the Winner: Even though hes 
only 30, Anderson may rack up his first (of 
possibly many) Best Director Oscars. 
Although maybe Magnolia was a bit too long 
and artsy for some of the Academys tastes, 
Anderson introduced tons of fresh and pow
erful ideas that are hard to forget.
Best Movie
Head of the Pack: Is it necessary to write 
about American Beauty again?
Certainly Qualified: There are many quali
fied movies, but here are some to round out 
the pack. It may surprise some, but I think 
Being John Malkovich, The Talented Mr. 
Ripley, and The Insider will get the nod. 
Finally, since theres often a surprise among 
the list of best movies, Lynchs The Straight 
Story may sneak into the fifth spot.
Long Shots: Dont count out Boys Dont 
Cry, Magnolia, Mansfield Park, and Three 
Kings. Also, Toy Story 2 has an outside shot. 
And why not? It probably received the high
est ratings of the year.
Guess for the Winner: In a move that will 
stun all, the award goes to ... American 
Beauty.
because '/our dorm always seems to be the furthest from the computer lab.
You are 
here
x The 
computer 
lab
Introducing the Ctlh\0?C\fr> "Computer Extender 
hand-held VC viith Waterloo Maple Software
Say goodbye to those midnight runs to the computer lab. because now you 
have all the power and portability you re looking for right in your hand.
Not only tan you personalize your C^SS10P6IA with Waterloo Maple software, you can 
also purchase (via our education Store Online) other powerful math tools such as 
Key Curriculum Press Geometer's Sfcetchpad and MF-l Graphing Calculator. The Casio 
unexpected extra also delivers Microsoft Windows C6 PocKet Word, Pocfcet >*cel and 
Pocfcet 'PowerPoint already loaded in the CASSI0P61A.
Waterloo Maple for 
Windows 6
Powerod i,
do maKe that one last trip to the computer lab. L09 on to: 
tottp://educationstore.ca6io.oni
and order your CASSIOPEIA "Computer extender" and software now.
Microsoft*
Wndow/CE
CASIO.
th9 unexpected extra
Every time you see this symbol expect the Casio unexpected extra.
+ps1dcdjwe Ytrndmd 4rn .d Yprndmc JN tdkd d1d dpt.d1 1djtp4wd15n 1AndhA1u4 or w14n5h41uc dj +ps1dcdjw Jd1Rd14ttdr r w.d 0rpwdsp Et4wdc 4rnUd1 dw.d1 
sdArw1p5cB J44td rrn J4ccpdR5pd d1d 15kpcw515n w1rndhd1uc d3 J4cpd JdhRAw51 Jd? 9wnB

---------------------------------------------------

Student Comics Galore!
Dilbert'by Scott Adams
S
tudent comics are back in 'ull 'orce this week. The 
Tartan is proud to bring you all o' the old 'avorites 
along with the return o' The Harder Are The Farder They 
Chew and What They Dont Want You To Know! I' you 
want to have your own comic published in the The Tartari 
just call 268-2111 or e-mail tartan@andrew.cmu.edu and 
youre on your way to being published.
ANOTHER COMPANY 
OFFERED ME TWENTY 
PERCENT MORE.
I KNOW I COULD 
EARN MORE 
MONEY AT ANOTHER 
COMPANY. I----------------
NO, I PREFER TO 
HIRE SOMEONE 
OJHO IS LOYAL, 
EVEN IF I HAVE 
TO PAY FORTY 
PERCENT MORE.
MANAGING IS 
SUPPOSED TO BE 
A SCIENCE!
MAYBE THE COFFEE 
IS GOOD AND YOU 
ENJOY WATCHING 
THE ANTICS OF 
FEEBLE, UNAWARE 
\ LOSERS.
NO, I 
DON'T 
THINK 
THAT'S
THIS 
COFFEE 
IS GOODWILL YOU 
MATCH IT?MY MIME 
WALL BLOCKS 
"^01 YOUR 
r1 SOUND
SO WHY DO 
I STAY?
I JOINED A FASTPACED START-UP 
COMPANY WHILE 
YOU WERE YAKKING
SHOULD I STAY AT 
MY CURRENT JOB 
WHERE THE COMMUTE
IS EASY? /
OR SHOULD I RISK 
EVERYTHING AND 
JOIN A FASTPACED STARTUP 
COMPANY? /
IF I QUIT I'LL LOSE 
SOME UNVESTED 
STOCK. THAT'S WHY 
I'M WILLING TO 
1 SUFFER f 
j f MY JOB. (~
BUT NOW 
THAT YOU 
EXPLAINED 
IT. . .(
A NORMAL BRAIN 
IRRATIONALLY 
PUTS MORE WEIGHT 
ON A SMALL LOSS 
THAN A HUGE 
------\ OPPORTUNITY.
NOW
YOU'RE
JUST
STUPID
MINE
WENT
1IPO.
AND YOU CAN'T 
QUIT BECAUSE 
YOUR STOCK ISN'T 
VESTED, f \t
I CAN'T DO ANY
THING BECAUSE 
I'M ALWAYS WAIT
ING FOR SOMEONE 
ELSE. _____
YOU'LL BE SITTING 
IN THE CAREER 
LIMBO SECTION.
AM 
I IN 
HECK?
NO, I'M JUST 
WORKING 
THE OVER
FLOW FROM 
LIMBO. !-------
JEEPERS! THE 
SERVICE HERE 
IS TERRIBLE!a division 
of HecKSTEP L 
INSIDEGOOD
BYE.
PLEASE 
UAITTO 
BE SEATED
PLEASE 
WAIT TO 
BE SEATED
NonSequitur
 by Wiley
I BCLICVE 
TUE. UTCRMIRKKfeLKTIot-1 
"UF&PNb 
EMPLOYMENT FOI? .AWVK5".
, INJECTION, I
or THE ELECTRIC 3
ClAMR Y:e MPP @
LWIE.IST, P W ji
66EN (PNOTANEP j
To BEINE, TREM&D 
SY KN UtAO... :
 Jl
'N'w-w.Moti-i.wiurte. The? z-z. wiLEYeMOH-s-eaunuP. ai
UPM 94 tell
WvtA-LY
gt&N W?..
g 1
^ 2-3 WWWfG U0N-i^.QUlTUR.fWtaoH-SeQMvT'JR.NET

---------------------------------------------------

I
S' Sr3~C1
-
3=
4, -4 'o 
 y ni
O 0, -=C -^> 'tj >"- i
His-> Q_
t 
y~ 3
-> &, >
r *15 *
i*Mv
d ,i r  gG
^ z x i-t =f mt:'=STSsa Js3^3 -;
s f2
^sssSg-,3^ 4s d ()G
CO
* C H ^ J : 2xd: m 5 > x_ CT x ^ 12:350>2^5 5" Sa
~ r 702 5mm z
THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 7. 2000

---------------------------------------------------

CATNIP. \ IT, FLESN! NUNIBIM6 n VIORRIEP TOR HfcAt) WITH THIS JUNK HE'S BUILfclNS, IS HO WAY TO DEW WITH
a pspaipwcv K life's sereAcKs ^ ON THE STUFF J
WAT THE-? A 81ACKU6HT AWP BLACKU6HT POSTERS'-AN? WHATS THAT SMEIL?.^
imiY, I'M WORPIEP1UAT FIESHY'S 
PEPPESXIOU IS 6R0WW6 WORSE . 
vYOU'P BETTEi? COmE SEE THIS...
WEll TaWS...FlESHY'S GIVEN UP  CATIP/ HE'S CIEW AMP S08g!!,
Twtmwtea 
If-f WHAT'S HE SOT 1 
V# UMMB NWW?..
FlfHY PUT IT PONN .' PUT IT..THAXWlY FRIEMP, IS 
CftUP,, 'DENIAL
1GOTTA 60 MAKE 
A BEER RVJH-..NDVJ 
JWITANYTHIN&?
mlKX,YNO ' 
IftQOrtlWSJ SWEAT.
THAT'S IT FLESHY! NO MORE 
CATNIP-YOU'RE 6OIW COLD TURKEYn'S"TOU6H LOVE" 
y TIME/.,,^
HEwnsisum'pErSIN HlSWElY i CHECK BIRDCHEW / AROUNP.. VW' 1 BET HE'S 
^na] GOT STUFF IN His 
0 HVNOSEWnE 
SAIA1 TOO
Sq"elk
C'WON, Y X THINK FtESHY'S STIUU FLESHY, \ PEPRESS&D ABCOT FLESHY 
SETTO -IRS AL1EM ABDUCTIOM-. BAU. k. ***. J
SET IT/L -----------ITOH...ISTHAT IT?..WEa,TWTWO/, 01'MAN, FLESHY JRS STILL OUT 
THERE AM0N6 THE STARSV ANDSOWW\y,SOMHOlV... /
i can recite all 50 state 
capitals in alphabetical 
order! are you listening 
j to me?
CQLP SWEAT. \ RELAYWE OT 1RENI8UN6-; SOMETHING TO ITHINK I HANDLE THIS-,, 
FLESHY'S ,VT UNPEP60IK6 \
CATNIP ., 1 ^
WiiwAWAL/
A CATNIP (TOUT'S UKE A NICOTINE. PATCH EXCEPT IT SLOWLY RELEASES CATNIP 1NSTEAP-. ITLL EASE HIS SUFFERING
'WERE NttHRESHY... W STAS FheaA 
\%rTCR?...ISH'T^
NO.FLESHY-'SPITIT OUT.' YOU'RE MOT SOT3SEPT0FAT 
IT.'SPIT.'SPIT.'..
IT WES SEEM TO 8EEASIIIS UK
mtm.1H006P...cm/upHqvjp
THE TARTAN  FEBUARY 7, 2000
Robotmanby Jim Meddick
NO! MO! H9. WftSNT OH THST STAR! THAT NAS A FAWNS ~"!THAT'S NOTEVEjJA STAR..,IT'S OK. ITS OK.
rm mnby +OK tin
bore-bie
The Phatmaster mb.ocjr.@s.n.dj:Gw
http : //phat .res. emu. edu/phatmaster/
fleshy,you mzimn guess
HOWAUYOU HAVE TO WORRY 
AWT ARE WIW(Ls^ 
WOUSTACHES rtn 
isu d
StouyAt (a tftxi 
(Uf t&e
$Acw c4,e 
FqP6 wd 
s4wrpR
. COUtttil
Mothers Against Catnip 
Organization
she-man
*>i**plt <M\rojyny or 
Kt r o. pV%r o i+i s t+.l
you
cl>-CickI'll, start with the induction 
step. Trivially, if n particles 
exist, some n+lst particle may 
as well exist, unless we already 
have enough particles, in which 
case we're done.
? ??...0 + 0 =
? ?
I know what you're thinking - 
What about the base case? And 
if one exists, what happens if it 
is destroyed? Well, I have' the 
answer...
The base case is your left nut.
[base case not pictured]
Billy, I have underestimated 
you.
terrible human being
>11
**evln*j p*r+i>
i -on*. pl,yir\cj iui+Vv yaUj 
Wonny... cVon + your
on +Kt Aoor
next: process
I'm bored today, so I'll let 
you speak before I destroy 
you.
FLKHY'S STILL STRUGGLING TO COPE.M TOE LOSS OF FLESHY JR.W&LU 
1% AFRAID HE'S TURNED TD CATMlP
LISIAN UP,PA^-YOU 60T A PROglEfA.YOU m NC5T KNOW IT-. OR NV\Y VOI) TWINKITS NO B16DNt.witteisue9 u15ta
FCRTVIAT...
...CRTHE SHEER CUFF 
JUST PAST . 
^_IT?
YMEAN THE BNORHOUS BOULPER IN 
OUR PATH...
Ilf moA,
W notWA/
WAIT/ WHAT'S THAT AHEAP? /
EXCUSE ME, 
BUT I PONT 
THtHK THIS HAS MATERIALLY IMPROVEPOURl SITUATION!! I
^ VERNE...
rn TRYING toGET HIM OFF/...
WELL, IF HE WANTS HIS 
TRUCK SO &AD... HERE/
VERNE...WHEN I WANT 
YOUR OPINION... I'LL THROTTLE IT OUT OF 
YOUU AIT LPOKS UKE A 
SEE STING/
/ HE'REGOHNA 
HAVE TP SUCK 
I CUT THE P01S0H/
Over the Hedge' 
by Michael Fry & T. Lewis ^SS
...WE'RE 
PRIVIN6 A TRUCK. IN THE MIPPLEOF NOWHERE, NO IDEA WHERE HOME IS...
OH, LOOK/ SOME CAMPING 
BOY SCOUTS TO THE RESCUE.
4
YEEEEEEEE1!/
...NOT TO
MENTION..WE HAVE
Z--ZHE$
Ah/AKE/
WHAT ARE WE CO INC TO PO?/
TO THE TRUCK!... YOU WORK THE GAS ANP BRAKES 
...I'LL STEER | ANP SHIFT!
NICE DOUBLE-TWISTING SlXAND-A-HALF GAINER WITH A 
FULL SCREAMING TWIST/
BEEHIVE'S
ANICE
TOUCH.

---------------------------------------------------

0
Original Hot Dog Shop 
University Center 
1" Floor
In Addition to our Dogs, Burgers, Fries, and Subs 
Try our new menu items:
Baked Potatoes Wing Dings
Chicken Parmesan Sandwich Chicken Clubs
Reubens 
Shrimp Basket 
Fish Sandwich 
Grilled Chicken Sandwich 
Jalapeno Beef 
Portabella Burgers
Corned Beef Sandwich 
Onion Rings 
Cheese Sticks 
Fresh Salads 
"Pastrami Sandwiches 
Roast Beef Sandwiches
t-Txi m wI/'A'
N*5yfi
HOTDOG SHOP
DELIVERY
on DineEx and Campus Funds and 
Department Charges*
Pizza, Wings, Chicken 
Sandwiches, Spaghetti Dinners, 
and more.
Not to mention Hot Dogs, 
French Fries, Burgers, 
and Steak Floagies.
PHONE 687-8327
5pm - 2am Daily
Pick up a menu at either 
Original Hot Dog Shop (CMU or Oakland)
* S8.00 minimum
Spending hours putting up posters 
and tiiers on campus just wasnt 
making it. Penn State students 
Ben Mandell, Nicole Wright, and 
Jim Szewc created a better way to 
buy and sell - PittAuctlon.com, 
a free, local Internet auction site.
In fact, they've started a company 
to create hundreds of these sites In 
university towns.VillageAuction.com.
Here's how it works. Log on to 
PlttAuction.com and register 
by typing In your name, a nickname, 
home address, and e-mail address. 
You'll see the agreement and be 
provided with a password. After 
that, you can buy and sell as often 
as you like, absolutely FR E E.
Items are arranged in simple 
categories for buyers and sellers to 
use. In addition to new and used 
goods, the site can be used for 
rentals, professional services, 
roommates, jobs, swaps, and other 
categories. Sellers can set a 
starting sale price and a deadline for 
bids, The highest bid at the end of 
the auction period gets the goods.
One of the nice things about a local 
auction is that you can pick up or 
deliver your auctioned Items locally 
No shipping or waiting. You can see 
the buyer or seller face to face, 
paying locally and trading locally 
The possibilities are greater, too.
Try arranging a sublet or selling a 
used sofa on a national auction site!
There are opportunities for everyone 
atPittAuction.com.
Local businesses are encouraged 
to list items and become advertisers; 
and even charities can benefit.
For each new registered user you 
slgn-up for PittAuction.com your 
charity can recleve $1. Charitable 
auctions can also be arranged. Just 
email jszewc@vlllageauctlon.com.
The site will be monitored for 
legality and honesty In trading 
and advertising. Students and 
townspeople are encouraged to log 
on and try out this free auction 
Web site at PittAuction.com.
Its like we say
"If you don't want It,
somebody else does!1'
Who
Cares
Come Find Out On February 8th 
12:00-2:00 Peter/McKenna Room, UC
Events made possible in part by United Jewish Communities

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
7 February 2000TH TARTAN
Pittsburgh Places of Worship (besides Three Rivers Stadium) -
Weekly Services
Sun 
10:30 am
Albright United Methodist Church 
486 South Graham Avenue 
682-7758
Sun 
1 pm
First Korean United Methodist Church 
325 North Highland Avenue 
279-4056
Baptist Campus Fellowship 
Sun pjfst Baptist Church
11 am 159 North Bellefield Avenue 
621-0500
Hillel Jewish University Center 
^rl 4551 Forbes AvenueSundown 621-4361
Call for location of services
Sun 
11 am
Chrisitan Student Fellowship 
New Hope Christian Community 
134 North Dithridge Street 
687-5707
SatChurch of the Ascension 5:30 pm 4729 Ellsworth Avenue 
Sun 621-4361
8, 10:30 am
Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-Day Saints 
250 North Dithridge Street 
(724) 482-9394
Fri
noon
Sun 
10:30 am
The Islamic Center of Pittsburgh 
4100 Bigelow Boulevard 
682-5555
Lutheran University Center 
4515 Forbes Avenue 
(near Craig Street) 
682-6886
Sun
Call for 
info
Shadyside Campus Ministry 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church 11 am 5121 Westminster Place
682-4300
Sun 
11 am
Community of Reconciliation 
100 North Bellefield Avenue 
682-2751
Call for 
info
Sri Venkateswara Temple 
South McCully Drive 
Penn Hills, PA 
373-3380
Call for 
info
Daily 12:30 pm 
Sat 4, 5:15 pm 
Sun 10:30 am, 
8 pm
Alissa Taylor/Art Staff
United Campus Ministry 
159 North Bellefield Avenue 
682-1051
Ryan Catholic Newman Center 
4450 Bayard Street 
681-3181 
Daily Mass: UC Chapel 
Saturday Mass: Newman Center 
Sunday Mass: Mellon Auditorium 
(Posner Hall)
The Sierra Club Monthly Meeting will 
take place this Wednesday, February 9 at 7:30 
pm. The feature will be Nature Photography 
with the Experts: See Great Photos and Learn 
How They Were Made. Call (412) 244-9907 for 
more information.
Hostelling International of Pittsburgh
will be holding a program called Budget Travel 
101 Workshop this Saturday, February 12 at 2 
pm. It will be held at 830 East Warrington 
Avenue and is free and open to the public. For 
more information, call (412) 431-4910.
The Silver Eye Center for Photography is
currendy showing an exhibit titled Photographs 
by James VanDerZee through February 26. Th 
Center is located at 1015 East Carson Street and 
is open Tuesday through Saturday from noon to 5 
pm, or by appointment. Public admission is free. 
For more information or a map call (412) 431: 
1810.
The Whiskey Rebellion Toastmasters
meet weekly at the Magee Community Center on 
745 Greenfield Avenue every Wednesday 
evening from 7 to 8:30 pm. Details about this 
public speaking club and directions are available 
by visiting http://trfn.clpgh.org/speak/. 
Otherwise, feel free to call (412) 481-0728 or 
email hays@city-net.com.
oncanus
CMU President Jared Cohon will hold 
open office hours this Tuesday from 4 to 5. pm. 
Students interested in meeting with President 
Cohon during that time should contact Dean 
Michael Murphy at mmlv@andrew.cmu.edu.
Job Fair 2000 will take place this Thursday, 
for students seeking full-time employment and 
internship opportunities. About 40 companies 
have registered. It is sponsored by the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences and the Heinz 
School, in cooperation with the Career Center. 
The fair runs from 11 am to 4 pm in Rangos Hall. 
For further information, visit 
http://hss.cmu.edu/jobfair.
The Women Supporting Women net
working reception will occur this Thursday to 
start the 2000 mentoring program. The program 
begins at 4:30 pm in the Rachel Mellon Walton 
Room of Posner Hall. Past program mentors and 
mentees are invited.
An Indian Benefit Lunch Event will take 
place this Friday from 11 am until 3 pm in the 
Wean Hall fifth floor commons. Proceeds benefit 
Prajna Counselling Center of Mangalore, India.
The Little Prince, presented as an opera, 
will be performed this Thursday and Friday in 
the Purnell Center. Call (412) 862-3793 or visit 
http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/~razini for more 
information.
A Joint CMU Martial Arts Seminar, spon
sored by the CMU Aiki Jujutsu Club, will be held 
in Rangos 1 and 2 on Sunday, February 13 from 
10 am to 2 pm. Instructors and senior students 
from various campus martial arts clubs will offer 
instruction on techniques within their martial 
art. Spectators are welcome and encouraged to 
attend. Contact Marc Fasnacht at 
mf5k@andrew.cmu.edu for more information.
Kaffeestunde is held every Tuesday from 
3:30 to 5 pm in Skibo coffeehouse. All speakers 
of German are invited.
Spanish Table takes place every Tuesday 
from 11:30 am to 1 pm in Skibo Coffeehouse. All 
speakers and levels of Spanish are welcome.
The University Center Art Gallery is cur
rendy showing One Picture is Worth More Than 
a Thousand Words, by Kelly Young. He tells 
fables using imaginative, three-dimensional type
face designs. The exhibit runs until February 19.religion
The Graduate Bible Study continues this 
semester on Thursdays in the University Center. 
This Thursday at 5 pm they will meet in the Pake 
Room, and read and discuss the third chapter of 
Pauls letter to the Galatians. For more informa
tion or questions call or write David Laughlin at 
(412) 268-2706 or dl0p@ece.cmu.edu.
The Hillel Jewish University Center 
(JUC) Students will lead Orthodox, 
Conservative, and Reform Services at 5:20 pm 
this Friday. Orthodox services take place in the 
University Center Chapel; and Conservative and 
Reform at the JUC at 4551 Forbes Avenue, corner 
of Forbes and Craig. A Friday night dinner will 
take place at 6:30 pm in the Connan Room. The 
cost of dinner is $6. Call (412) 621-8875 to RSVP.
talks/lectures
An Open Mind Lecture tided Leadership 
and Conscience: A Practical Guide will take 
place today at 4:30 pm in the Adamson Wing of 
Baker Hall. It will be given by Professor Ken 
Gormley of the School of Law at Duquesne 
University and author of Pulitzer Prize-nominat
ed Archibald Cox: Conscience of a Nation.
An environmental lecture titled The Road 
to Sustainable Development: the Future will be 
held today at 2 pm in Porter Hall 7F. It will be 
given by Dr. Robert W.' Dunlap, CEO of 
ThermoRetec, Inc.
How Mind, Body, and Spirit relate to 
African-Americans is a program presented 
by YWCA Wellness and Fitness Director Saeeda 
Hafiz this Tuesday. It will be held at noon in the 
Connan Room of the University Center.
The Director of the Digital Library 
Federation, Daniel Greenstein, will visit 
Carnegie Mellon this Tuesday. He will speak 
about digital library directions and issues at 1 pm 
in Rangos 1 of the University Center. The entire 
university community is invited to attend.
An eating disorder lecture will be given by 
Donna Hansen, a Registered Dietician, and 
Louella Diaz, PhD, a psychotherapist at the 
Counseling Center, this Tuesday at 6 pm in the 
Dowd Room of the University Center.
From Dream to Dot.Com, the complete 
story of carOrder.comwill be presented this 
Tuesday from 6 to 8 pm in Doherty Hall 2210. 
Pizza and drink will be served.
A Study Abroad Information session to
hear students talk about their experiences 
abroad, as well as get an overview of the study 
abroad resources at CMU, will be held this 
Tuesday at 5 pm in the McKenna/Peter/Wright 
Rooms of the University Center. Pizza and drinks 
will be served.
The Department of Electrical and 
Computer Engineering (ECE) Seminar 
Series presents An Introduction to Turbo 
Coding. The talk is given by ECE professor 
Vijayakumar Bhagavatula. The lecture will be 
held this Thursday from 4 to 5 pm in Scaife Hall 
Auditorium, Room 125. Refreshments begin at 
3:30 pm. For more information, see 
http://amp.ece.cmu.edu/ECESeminar/.
The ALCOA African-American Speaker 
Series continues this Thursday at 4:30 pm with 
Computer Vision in the 21st Century. It is given 
by Camillo Taylor, Assistant Professor of 
Computer and Information Sciences at the" 
University of Pennsylvania. The lecture will take 
place in Baker Hall 136A (Adamson Wing).
The Cutting Edge Caf Lecture Series con
tinues this Thursday with An Exploration of a 
Social Controversy on CD-ROM at 4:30 pm in 
the McKenna Room of the University Center.
The next Carnegie Lecture on Global 
Environmental Change will take place next 
Monday, February 14th from 7 until 8:30 pm. It 
will be held at the Carnegie Museum of Art in 
Oakland. Duane Gubler from the Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention will give the lec
ture, which is titled, Factors Responsible for the 
Resurgence of Vector-Borne Diseases in the 
Waning Years of the 20th Century: Climate vs. 
Demographic, Societal, and Other Changes"
museumsmusic
The Carnegie Museum of Natural 
History will be showing No Ordinary Land: 
Encounters in a Changing Environment through 
February 27. The presentation features the pho
tography of Virginia Beahan and Laura McPhee. 
For more information, call 622-3270.
The Carnegie Science Center on the North 
Side is currendy presenting Who Dun It: The 
Science of Forensics through March 19. For 
more information, call at 237-3400.
The Clay Piece Gallery is currendy showing 
an exhibition tided Close Encounters by Judi 
Charlson. It is running through March 29. The 
gallery is located at 5416 Walnut Street in 
Shadyside. Call (412) 682-3737 for more infor
mation.theater
Art^ a play featuring Judd Hirsch, is currendy 
being presented at the Byham Theater in down
town Pittsburgh through February 13. For tickets 
and showtime information, call (412) 456-6666.
Proudly Presents Productions and 
Music Theater International open their first 
show, Triumph of Love, on February 13 at Donn/s 
Place on 1226 Heron Avenue. It will run through 
February 18. Admission to all shows is $5. Tickets 
can be picked up in person at Donnas Place or 
arrangements can be made by the theater line at 
(412) 922-0863. Call the theater for showtime 
information or directions.
The Pittsburgh Public Theater presents 
The Pirates of Penzance by William Gilbert and 
Arthur Sullivan. The play is currendy running 
through February 27 at the OReilly Theatre in 
downtown Pittsburgh. For more information, call 
321-9800 or look at http://www.pghpublictheater.org on the Web.
Stacey Earle performs at Rosebud this 
Tuesday, with special guest The Nields; and on 
Thursday, February 10, Lucy Kaplansky returns 
for an encore performance. Showtime is at 7:30 
pm. Tickets are $6 in advance and $8 on the day 
of the show.
Half Japanese, The Johnsons, Weird 
PauVs Blissful Idiots, and Hovland will be 
performing in an all ages show this Tuesday at 
Millvale Industrial Theater. Admission is $7.
Corey Harris will be performing this 
Wednesday at the Metropol, which is located at 
1600 Smallman Street. The show beings at 7:30 
pm. Tickets are $18 and $20.
Cuarteto Latinoamericano, the quartetin-residence at Carnegie Mellon University, will 
perform Nellombra, Nella Luce, a world pre
miere by renowned American composer Steven 
Stuckey, at 3 pm this Saturday in the Mellon 
Institute Auditorium. Andres Cardenes, professor 
of violin and concertmaster of the Pittsburgh 
symphony, and piano virtuoso Santiago 
Rodriguez will join the Cuarteto for the second 
part of the program. Tickets will be sold at the 
door for $10. For more information, call the concertline at (412) 268-2383.
The Heinz Chapel Choir under the direction 
of John Goldsmith will be holding its 10th 
Annual Heinz Chapel Choir Festival concert on 
Sunday, February 13 at 3 pm in the Heinz 
Memorial Chapel in Oakland. The event is free 
and open to the public.
The Renaissance and Baroque Society
presents Paul ODette in a solo recital of lute and 
guitar music titled Fantasias and Fandangos 
this Saturday at 8 pm in Synod Hall in Oakland. 
Tickets for the show can be purchased at the 
University of Pittburgh Student Union, by phone 
at (412) 682-7262, or at the door. Prices are $10 
and $15.
voxpopuli
official voice of tv evangelists 
i'm bored.
The copy room g-string!
25w Y5tt Eddre v5i5ss4"
4h 4idAw 4 7p1w, E4rs.5G 
ti
Henele,
So if everything tastes like chicken, 
does everything sound like opera?
-E.
YNNqN yIJN"
I can't believe I slept through something like that...
walk until youre restless 
sleep until youre tired 
wake up without thinking 
youre the one that 1 desire.
Three-quarters.
definately.
Happy Birthday, Lorelei! 
Happy Birthday, Joey!
Mon Valley West Coast!
Skee ball! Bowling!
Mullets! Eat 'N Park!
Aaahh! Next time?
Roller skating in the ghetto...
-bh
peanut 
butter 
and 
a 
spoon
Chapter 1: Once upon a time, there lived a poor 
little stuffed piggy named Esqueala. Esqueala 
was quite cute but, due to a cruel trick of fate, 
she lacked anything resembling an orifice.
This sucked.
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus community! To 
submit a vox, simply email it to tartan@andrew.cimj.edu, send 
it to The Tartan, University Center, Box 17 via campus mail, or 
drop it in the Vox Populi drop box on the slick-looking Tartan 
server. The comments in this box do not reflect the views of The 
Tartan or anybody in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, 
and if anything sounds remotely real or interesting, then youre 
reading way too much into it
