Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 10CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1942
Cowards Trilogy 
Next F or Dramats
Hands Across the Sea, Still 
Life, and Family Album, three 
one-act plays from Tonight at 
8:30 by Noel Coward, will be pre
sented by the Drama Department in 
the Little Theatre of the Arts Build
ing from November 17 to November 
24.
The plays represent the balance 
of comedy, tragedy, and musical 
which mark the plays of this series. 
Hands Across the Sea is a typ
ical sophisticated drawing - room 
comedy; Still Life takes moments 
from the lives of a handful of peo
ple in a refreshment room of a rail
road station; and Family Album 
is a Victorian comedy with music.
Noel Coward, playwright, writer, 
actor, composer, director, producer, 
singer, and dancer, first produc
ed and acted in Tonight at 8:30 
seven seasons ago, innovating oneacts into the very modern profes
sional New York stage. This is the 
first time his plays have been done 
at Tech, because his unique, glibseeming style is exceedingly diffi
cult to apt.
Students featured in the casts in
clude Jean Layton, Adelyne Roth, 
Priscilla Dodge, Jane Pursch, Rich
ard Rose, Michael Sivy, Natalie Ru
bin, Patricia Walker, Ernest Motyl, 
Ethel Gerson, Suzanne Maimin, Rita 
Sheinman, Rye Trier, Robert Parks, 
Barbara Bums, Jenny Lou Law, 
Muriel Rosoff, Cecele Strober, Rosanne Bearman, Margery Finkel, Betty Bieberson, Alice Morgan, and 
Mitchel Agruss.
Douglas McLean is directing.
Tickets for Tonight at 8:30 are 
not yet available.
Thanksgiving Holiday
In accordance with the ac
tion taken by the C. I. T. Ex
ecutive Board yesterday moring, the Thanksgiving holiday 
has been extended to include 
Thursday, Friday, and Satur
day, November 26, 27, and 28.
Earl Truxell To Play 
For I. S. Formal Sat. 
At Hotel William Penn
On Saturday, November 14, In
tersorority Council will hold its an
nual formal dance in the Urban 
Room of the William Penn Hotel.
This dance is one of the few 
school affairs to which the girls in
vite the boys. Each of the eight 
sororities on campus must have an 
attendance equal to three-fourths 
its active membership. Since this 
will be one of the last formal dances 
for the duration, an especially 
large crowd is expected. Each 
sorority may invite alumni and 
guests to attend. Freshmen may 
not be included in the guest list.
Following the example set by 
Student Council in banning cor
sages other than those made of war 
stamps at all-school dances, Intersorority Council has ruled that the 
same plan will go into effect for the 
formal.
A twenty-five dollar bond is to be 
given as a door prize. Earl Truxell 
and his orchestra will provide the 
music.
Before the dance which starts at 
9 oclofck, Intersorority Council and 
their guests will attend the annual 
dinner.
Chaperons for the dance are Mrs. 
Jessie Y. Yon, Mr. and Mrs. War
den, Mr. and Mrs. Murphy and the 
sponsors of the sororities.
Independents Nominate Chuck Jones
Note: The TARTAN originally in
tended to present a sketch of both the 
Fraternity and Independent candidates for 
the office of Engineering Senate President. 
However, at the time of our deadline, the 
Fraternity candidate had not been selected.
Charles, or Chuck Jones, M. E., 
44, has recently come into the Car
negie spot-light as the hard-hitting 
center of our football team . . . He 
says that hes glad the football sea
son is over because now hell be able 
to give his blood to the Red Cross 
... as if he hasnt already given 
enough!
Chuck is all out for the Propor
tional Representation system . . . 
He feels confident that the Inde
pendent groups are able to put up 
candidates who are worthy of any 
campus office . . . He says, Out of 
our 1,000 men, we can find as many, 
if not quite a few more worthy of 
election than the fraternities can 
out of their 300 men.
Since activities are a good judge 
of a mans personality and abilities, 
here is Chucks imposing list: Foot
ball Team, sports a Delta Skull cap, 
Scabbard and Blade, Kiltie Band, 
Sully Clan, Claymore Clan, FreshDr. A. B. Kinsolving Will Speak 
At Armistice Day Assembly
man Orientation Committee, Alpha 
Phi Omega, Mens Dorm Council 
and former Scimitar. Whew! Here 
is a fellow who not only keeps up 
a pretty substantial factor over in 
Industries and Machinery Hall, but 
goes in for every activity on campus 
from the Football Team to the C. D. 
Fireman Training Course!
Dr. Arthur B. Kinsolving, II
Heluaee. At *JecU
Student Escapes Air 
Raids and Gestapo
By Louisa Saul 
When the Germans occupied the 
Sudentenlan in February, 1938, 
Paul Peter Gibian. now a fresh
man Aeronautical Engineer, was 
living with his parents and two 
brothers in Prague. Because his 
father was Jewish, and was at that 
time manufacturing American bus
iness machines contrary to German 
ruling, the family thought it best to 
move to England, which was then 
still at peace. After finally secur
ing a permit from the Gestapo, the 
Gibians escaped through Italy to 
London.
There the three brothers entered 
St. Edmunds College, a boarding 
school in Ware, England, corres
ponding to an advanced high school. 
In September, 1939, hostilities broke 
out between England and Germany; 
and Paul was caught in the midst 
of a nation at war. During the next 
year he survived over 150 air raids 
with bombs dropping as near as 
fifty feet away.
America seemed to be the only 
haven of peace left, and in the fall 
of 1940, the Gibian family secured 
passage on the S. S. Baltrover sail
ing for the United States. To quote 
Paul, Aside from a game of tag 
with a German submarine, the voy
age across was unsuccessful.
After living in New York for 
three months Paul and his family 
settled in Pittsburgh where he en
tered Central Catholic High School. 
Last August, Paul entered Tech, at 
the age of seventeen, to. study Aero
nautical Engineering.
When asked for his reactions to 
America, Paul said, Aside from the 
motor cars and soda fountains, life 
is pretty international. However, I 
like America and regardless of the 
turn the War may take, I shall stay 
here.
Dr. Arthur B. Kinsolving II, rec
tor of the Calvary Protestant Epis
copal Church, will be the guest 
speaker at todays annual R. O. T. C. 
Armistice Day assembly, to be held 
at 11:30 A. M. in the Mens Gymna
sium. His talk on What Price Free
dom will deal with the varying 
ideas concerning the world after the 
wap.
Dr. Kinsolving, the son of a mis
sionary to Southern Brazil, lived 
there till 1906, when he returned to 
the United States with his family. 
From 1914 to 1917, he attended the 
University of Virginia, where he 
majored in Philosophy and English.. 
He was commissioned a first lieu
tenant in the United States Army 
in 1918, and was awarded the 
French Croix de Guerre.
By presidential appointment he 
was made Chaplain of the United 
States Military Academy at West 
Point from 1926 to 1930, and in 1930 
was reappointed. In 1939 he ac
cepted the rectorship of the Calvary 
Episcopal Church in Pittsburgh. 
The honorary degree of Doctor of 
Divinity was conferred upon him in 
1937 by New York University.
Glasses will be dismissed at 11:10 
today, in order that the R. O. T. C. 
and Kiltie band may have time to 
meet around the Senior Fence at 
11:20. They will then march in 
formation to the Mens Gymnasium.
The program, presided over by 
President Doherty, will begin with 
the play of the Star Spangled 
Banner by the Kiltie Band. The 
Army Air Corps, sung by the 
Mens Glee Club, will be followed 
by Dr. Kinsolvings address.
Tech Womens Choir To Sing 
With Pittsburgh Symphony
Dr. Fritz Reiner, conductor of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony, has invited 
the Womens Chorus of the Music 
Department to participate in his 
Symphony concerts at the Syria 
Mosque this Friday night and Sun
day afternoon. The number to be 
performed by the students is the 
Third Debussy Nocturne, Sirenes, 
which calls for womens voices. This 
occasion marks the first time that 
the Carnegie Tech Chorus has had 
an opportunity to sing with a pro
fessional organization.
In previous concerts of Beethov
ens Missa Solemnis and Mahlers 
Second Symphony, the music group 
was heard and favorably comment
ed upon by Dr. Reiner.
Election Notice
The elections for president and 
vice-president of Engineering Sen
ate will be held Tuesday, Novem
ber 17 between 11:30 and 12:30. 
Petitions may be obtained in the 
Student Council Office and are due 
in this office on or before Friday, 
November 13. All students of the 
engineering school are entitled to 
vote.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEOIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1942
CdUo^i A^uftcluun,-------------------------------------------
Apropos of Nothing
Elections for engineering senate will be held one week from today. A 
president and vice-president will be elected to this atrophied organization, 
who will then take up their duties on student council. Whether a fra
ternity or an independent man gets in is not too important, for the prob
lems that arise are not factional in any way. Reason for this is that stu
dent council is only a glorified clearing house for social events. Year after 
year the TARTAN has campaigned for the students to vote and show 
their democratic spirit, but is it really that important to vote for your 
choice for dance manager? Will the independents guarantee better dances 
than the fraternity men or vice-versa?
The war on all the fronts is going well for the Allied powers, and if 
we win there will be a vast upswing of democratic thinking. All organiza
tions and institutions will be democratized to give America a firmer basis 
for her tradition. Possibly this spirit will stretch out into the field of ed
ucation, and eventually it may reach Tech. This would mean greater co
operation between administration, faculty, and student body. Committees 
would be set up to work out the problems of the three groups that affect all 
three or any two, and the logical organization to represent the students 
would be their council. Problems of curricula, activities, and discipline, 
are not those that one group can settle arbitrarily, but should be regulated 
by all three. The units are inseparable in that they cannot exist without 
each other and since they must harmonize, why not have a tripartite 
organization to work out the problems to the best interests of all. The 
teachers are holding a meeting to discuss the problems they face in getting 
their material across to a class. Isnt the discussion fruitless unless a stu
dent is there to give them the reaction of the classes, and wouldnt the ma
jority of good suggestions come from the students? Yet the teachers, stu
dents, and administration work toward their solutions alone, struggle to 
keep the business going, and lag in method when the obvious thing to do 
would be to integrate.
This is why the students should vote. Some day the time will come 
when the administration will say come and take a hand in deciding your 
business. But of course that will never happen until you know your busi
ness. So if bigger and better dances dont interest you, dont vote; and if 
the independents are nice guys and so are the fraternities, dont vote; but 
if you are interested in getting a student council that is progressive, that 
is democratic, and that will eventually enter into the machinery of a uni
versity, then, brother, haul out your athletic card next Tuesday, go to the 
polls and make an X.
Apropos of Something
Democracy at Tech seems to have struck a snag. The majority of 
campus leaders have agreed that proportional representation would be a 
distinct improvement over our present mode of election, but the problem is 
in getting it into the student council constitution. This requires a two thirds 
vote of a student assembly; and considering how few people know of P. R., 
it couldnt go over. In the near future P. R. will be brought to the student 
body for a vote, and we suggest that the students investigate the matter to 
vote wisely on the subject. Any organization that wishes to have P. R. ex
plained to it can have an authority on the subject attend its meeting by get
ting in touch with the editor.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER *600 - PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
CCCarneg ro rineTrit ADvcnnsiNo Y After Office Hours Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief.......................sc. 9070
Cotug, PubUAer, Rrpresentative Business Manager.............................SC. 9855
Vol .ige3TC 6N10 ARE GTIS0 r0 G0 0000
CoCwa r dasaT  Lo* iwlgl r iy NliwClCa Advertising1 IManagrer...................BR. 4759
Entered as secona-ciass matter In tlie Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1870.
Published weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief................................................................................................. Leonard ChoHner
Business Manager.....................................................................................................Ted Nierenberg
Co-Managing Editors...................................................................................................   /acfc ShoreWalter Haller
Co-Copy Editors............................................................................................Stanley A. Rosecrans
Jeanne King
Staff Secretary *................................................................................................................Pat Elman
Sports Editor...............................................................................................    ;  WatkinsPersonnel Manager.......................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder
Advertising Manager................................................................................................Wilbur Thomas
Circulation Manager...............................................................................................Palefsky
Staff Artist.............................................................. ....................................................Elliott Twery
Staff Photographer...................................................................................................Edward Munyer
Business Staff: Jerry Jacobs, Morry Rosecrans, Martha Wagman, S. Spangler.
Junior Editors: Helena Aronson, Doreen Barry, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, T. J.
Harmany, Dave Neuss, Louise Saul, Elaine Levin, Ed Goldstein.
Reporters: Natalie Nathan, Lucille Schulberg, Gen Racusin, Mort Cohn, Ed Croop,
Aron Beck, Norma Caplan, Sidney Gerhardt, Allen P. Golden, Adeline Herlick, 
Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb, Iris Kwall, Lois Marks, Jeanne Norris, Lola Patton, 
Khea Rothman, Dorothy Rutkin, Alen Schneider, Alice Softs, Bob Gillespie.
On the Lighter Sideby Art North
Every time I get in there to work on it, the phone rings !
Kick. 9*t 04 jfJ
Anything Goes In Scrap 
Drive To Begin Soon
Now that you have made that col
lection of useless compacts, lipstick 
cases, key chains, and keys, Mu Al
pha Gamma is going to give you a 
chance to get rid of all this scrap.
Boxes in which you can deposit 
your contributions will be placed 
in the main halls of Arts, "Margaret 
Morrison, Administration, and Ma
chinery Hall. Any kind of scrap 
is welcomed: tarnished or broken 
junk jewelry, tinfoil, tobacco and 
cigarettes cans, metal needles, etc, 
The sorority will not receive any 
remuneration when the scrap is 
turned in, so come on:
Donate your junk to junk the 
axis!
Larry Coulter Missing 
In Battle of Solomons
Larry Coulter, a 1940 graduate of 
the Music Department and an En
sign in the United States Naval Re
serve-Air Corps, is reported missing 
in the Solomon Islands. Larry was a 
wonderful musician who could play 
well a variety of instrumentspi
ano, organ, trumpet and tympani 
arrange compositions, and sing. 
After taking his B. A. degree at 
Tech, he taught school at Point 
Marion Pennsylvania, for one year;; 
He resigned from this position, how
ever, to enter the Naval Air Corps.
After his preliminary training 
was received in Jacksdnville, Flor
ida, he was assigned as a bomber 
pilot to duty in the South Pacific, 
Now the government has notified 
his parents in Monongahela that 
their son is missing.
Seniors --Notice
ORDER 
CLASS DEGREE RINGS 
AT ONCE
Rings ordered on or before Friday, Novem
ber 27, 1942, will be ready for delivery before 
Commencement, December 20, 1942.
ALUMNI OFFICETHE UNION
535323532353532348234853235353485323535348235348235353535353482323482348

---------------------------------------------------

Vd 'HOHiaSXXId ANVdWOD DNITULOa \nOO-VOOD
A ANVJW03 Y10D-YD03 3H1 JO AlUOHiflV MONI 031X101
ttyThaTnh S| d|DJoyv suojpujsaj auiijJDM Buiidasao 
jo ksg sii|| inoqo |uids |njjaaip o stajai|X
*paijsajjaj aq puo dsnod 04 dn Bujaoiu jjd|S puo 
9|;uis sj0iuo*sn3 *j|as*! 0103-0303 si 0103-0303 
a))!l Bum A|uo ai|| asnojaq |dm***| joj *idm 
s^o-j *jd|oo3 o 40 saAUJO a>jo3 o Ajddns Mau 
d uai|M Aopoi pjoai| 6 u 43346 Addoq ai|| sjoqj.,,
uw uwss <mH
86T0 VH 1S Jojraow o*9
aaiMiHdwAN<< D KE
uoi;BnpBJ ajojsq sasq 
-uiaui M0u sq; nB0 1 Jbss3D3u sbm 
;t uiBjSoad pa^ipadxa 3q; jo osnnooq 
;nq jbsX 3q; ui j3;bj pjsq si uoui0 
-J0D uoi;bi;iui sq; nBnsl 'J3qui3A 
N J M^JU^;uaAv; aq; uo saSpajd 
AV0U Jiaq; joj ;anbuBq jbuijoj b Suiu 
-UBjd 0jb id B;ag nBj, jo sjsquisui 
jotu0S 3qj, 'snduiBD uo ppq oq hiay 
j0uuip jbuuojui ub q;u33;jiq; 3q; 
uo uoi;bi;iui jbuuoj 3q; SuiMo^p^
Sjsqpuiq uqop 
puB uoXt ttiM. aQ uoxiq PIOjbji 
0J0M siq; pajouoq u0ui aajq; 
0qX -s;u3pn;s SuipuB;s;no ;soui oq; 
uoi;bziub3jo sq; jo sj0quiaui aq; jo 
uoiuido aq; ui ojb uaui asaqj, ssBp 
aq; jo q;ua; jaddn aq; uiojj sjoiunC 
jouoq aajq; spaps osjb i<j B;ag ubj, 
ja;sauias nBJ J Suiuuigoq aq; 
guijnQ qooqos aq; ui ;saja;ui Bja 
-U03 joj SuipuB;s;no puB diqsjBpqos 
uj jopadns 0jb oqM sjaauigua 
jotunC asoq; uodn jouoq J0juoo o; si 
uoi;bziubjo aq; jo 0sodjrid aqj,
q;iuis qSnn
puB j09j0qpXOQ UIAJBjft UIU00J0 
S0|JBq3 JOUJB^VV ^BH 03JH S3UIBf I0z;a pjBMOji ;sojj[ aqsaq jadoq 
jaSo^ J0lui0Avqos PIOJBH ja;JBO uiBtnM :0-ib Xaqj, -uoiun aq; ui
4gX J0qui0AO]si ^BpiJ.i s0Bp0jd M0u 
U0A0P 0;Bi;iUI inBUIJ0J IITM 
-jouoq SuiJ00uiBu0 1^ Bpg hbj,
uorafj aiSaujc^ jy 
SaSp^U M9\[ H9A9|g
saouojj 1 j eiag nnx
X33HXS dOOTft Off
s^ooa AavH0dmiM03
saaqSas mraySSOHO HiJUUAUS 3HX 
J9iU9M x*b^iAISN3d&O 1V3H0 3H1 
uqX pu'B saa^-Bggovioavsqqa svissna laiAOS inoav Hinni byAr 
nm/A t. mnavaNajxa aaaM ahhj;
:8uipD9} pajjnba^j
S3A13HS HOOa H10 MO SI SXM3A3 XM3HH13 MI 
3SH103 3X31JRI0D Vda OMuaax (10A auv 
H3HYM 3HI MO SI AH01SIH
 I 39NI* S1VIII1XVN ONIXI INI* MI ct1ffX9J>V9jf
H39YJ aHVHH3Sa
aiojs Xjddns jnoA jy     joaid dipneas ivHo
J3U9? 9JOUI 3JB puB <dSBJ3 O) ASB9 3JB JBIfJ 
89UI{ ^UTMBjp JO 9?B)UBApB 3qB)OU 9I|) 9ABl{
Aaqj 5lldg {ooqos ldl a Vil A1SN3Q-IH
jpqj qjiM sjiousj 3UeCOFH lAO NVA
3IW010V3IW sasn oqM EodT aqj oj    *
40ISB3 S9UI0Q $WffU\
aaaj^g s9qjo,i XI68
ecNNA pdrfTT s<m
sw 891 uiooh aou 
-JO 0isn]A[ oq; ui oq n^V J0q;o oq; 
puB uoi^BJ^siutuipv ooijjo s4jbj;si 
-Soy; oq; ut p0DB{d oq \\im. ouo '^Bp 
-o^ umui0q ojqBjiBAB oq n^ suoi^ 
-nqij;uoD JB^unpX joj soxoq om; 
os^v 'spunj ;pqos sndrnBD
uo suoi^bziubSjo ;U0J0JJip jo soai; 
-B;u0S0jdoy; 'osubd oq; o; ojoui jo 
jalara b a;nqij;uoo o; pa^SB si ajoj 
-ajaq; jaquiaui X^noBj puB ^uap 
-n;s qoBa -00'S$ ST ^S03 aiBsapAV 
aq^. puB JBjqq b dn a^BUi spjo 
-oaj pajpunq auo Xp^Buiixojddy
uoipaps s;i jo duiBD O 
o; j00ips aq; jo 3UIBU aq; ut JBjqq 
oisnui O LieY o; i;iun^Joddo UO SBq 
oo; qoaj, ,CTPF 'pa^nqij;uoo pBaj
-^B 3ABq SUBIDISnUI-UOU ^UBUI SB
na^ 3O Bj^saqojo Xuoqduig 09M 
aq^ puB ziauBjaiso}! ajpuy Sui 
BFOP paj^ sjapBJBj DFM aq; pus 9OF 
Bjn^\[ uq ^DB^a PUOFP jnoqiJBAvg 
sXpB^O ,eUeUOg3TF4 ojn;jy guipn^o 
-ui suBptsnui uMou^-^aM PUOFPD
<{-a{Bjo/\[ sa2jB]A[ Disnj^,, 
ui paqduii bo aq; spjBMo; jaq;inj 
da;s auo si JBjqq qoBg 'spjODaj 
aAiaoaj n^ 00; sdiqg -SBasjaAO puB 
ajaq sduiBD o; s;iun qans pas o; puB 
Disnm ja;sBui jo spjooaj OOI J s;iun 
JBjqq OOS uiB;qo o; si uBjd aqj, 
Xsnonui;uoo oisnui zzbC o; uajsif o; 
;ubav ;ou op oqM aoiAjas aq; ui uaui 
joj sguipjooaj BDISSBp-IUiaS puB 
jbdissbp jo sauBjqq Suisibj jo qoC
aq^ o; Jps^i pa^BDipap SBq qoiqM 
21Pds12dcF X^UOpBU B SI -DUJ
]A[ 'ii V ^isnui jo ^jBjqq spjooaH 
ja;sB]^[ saojo^ patujy UO josuods 
o; pa^sB uaaq aABq qoax aiSaujB^ 
jo sjaquiaui-;^noBj puB s;uapn^g
U9J^[ 9OTAJ0g JOj[ 
pajBOQ SpjQ39|J
------SI------
aSLYTXVO
--------m--------
XY3 OX 33Y1J
3HI
uiBjgojd uaAoqpag 
b jo a^JBqo ui 3q n^ ubijoq 2pi 
-j3p3j[ -jq s;jy si uiooh 08^1 
v'psmiix 
ssubj;s..........................a*oxin) uoq
qB^psj qdBjgouoqd 
siq; 3siAJ3dns nM uosjb3, jj *y 
S3iJBqo -j]A[ s;jy ex tuoon 08^1 
vpojj
---------adOD3U 3H1 NO---------
1 Jaqo;
-DO uo HBg ^JB^iitjm 3q^ ;b psounou
-UB SBM ;U3UI3BU3 Jpqj, '^JB^O
^prif saouBy siq ui si jaASMoq 
avou ;qiJ }S3J3;ui Bdiouijd sijj
qqoq A{uo puB 
suo siq s3;n;i;suoo Sui^j^ -jipojo 
siq o; sjnoq Suig 06 ;noqB psssBuiB
' / * h r"'T'K W_____..............'i ___/ + J J
 
S'-'SP&M'
uoi;
-BnpBjS uodn p3;uioddB ^buiSijo 
sq xjim UBd siq; ui ui;Bdpi;jBd 
;u3pn;s ub }Bq; 3uii; siq; ;b u3ai
3q UBD j3A3M0q 3DUBJHSSB 0^[ 
SJBnpiAipm p3;S3J3^UI o; 3|qBIBAB 
si sssjnoa jo ;six siqj, uoi^BOupa 
JO 3DIJJO S3;b;s pairan 3q; jo diqs 
-josuods sq; J3pun psjBdsjd ussq 
SBq SDIU0jp33 UI S3SJnOD p3AOJddB 
jo 3uq^no uy soiuojpsja jo p^sy 
3q; ui sssjnoo jo uoi^bj^uoduod b 
3^b; 03. p3np3qos 3jb Xsq; ji s^usui 
-^JBdsp J3q;0 UI SJ0IU3S puB sjoiunp 
o; uodo MOU SI saisXqcJ DIU0jp3a; 
JO UIJ33UIUa JBOIJpSia UI SJ0IU3g 
PUB SJOIUnf o; p3pij;s3j XjSnOIA3Jd
dnojQ Suiujbst soiuojpsja sdjoo 
3AJ3S3H ps^squa 3q; ui ;u3ui;squ3 
;Bq; pssiApB U33q SBq ssBg ^03
SBq puB sssjnoo yyo iJBpuo 
-D3S puB JBUiijd 3q; 5[oo; Xuuqof
id pu^ Rd
-dB^i iqj spBia puB pjBqqBDg ub^o 
3JOUIBX3 JO J3qUI3UI B BUlSlg nBJ, 
IjJ JO }U3piS3jd SI 3H S3IJBJOUOq 
3AIJ p3UI0C SBq 3q 3Ai;3B J3A SI 
3q 3SnBD3q puB S3pBJ poo UMOp 
Xnd o; ssSbubui iCuuqop ssnBDsg
UIS^SS uuop 3q; 3A0jd 
-UII o; p31j; SBq ftB3J puB SpU3IJJ 
ubui uoav SBq uuqof tiounoo 
uijoq jo ;uopis3jd sy puos bui ;i 
qoC ;jos sq; ;ou si josiapb UBUiqssjj 
guisq jo sssuisnq 3q; joj suii; siq jo 
jsoui dn 3^b; s3i;iai;db ssaqj jo om; 
;sjy aq^ jusssjd ;y -uibs; 3;Bq3p 
3AI^0BUI-AV0U 3q; JO J3qUI3UI B puB 
IIBH q3IaM UT JOSiApB uBUiqsajj 
;uapiS3J< punoo uijoq si 3q joj
S3i;iAipB UBIU S4UUqOf UOUIB 
jouiui b juo U33q SBq guipBax 
-jasqa jaAaMOjj japBaxjaaqD Jiaq; 
sbav q;JOjj uqof jboX ;sb sauiBS 
X|Bq;ooj aq; ;b uoipas guijssqa 
jpq; pBq S3iJo;iuuop sq; uaq^w 
oa;Bdioi;jBd aq qoiqM 
ui sai;iAi;oB pus saiJBJouoq suoijba 
aq; q passiui aq xjiav ^iBaj oqAv 
q;jofj uqof aq j^im jaqmaoaQ ui 
a;BnpBjg o; sjoiuos aq; guouiy
sXoq 9t[l JO 9110
RNV1HYX aiOaNHVO aHXmi o aaawaAON Avasanx

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CABNEGUE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1942
Council MinutesOff The Cuff On The Campus .. 
The meeting was called to order at 7:15
p. C0 s
Absent: Messrs. Emberg, Fitzgerald,
and Spitaleri.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Budget Committee 
Mr. Shewitz moved for the approval of 
the budget for the 1943 Thistle.
Motion carried.
Mr. Shewitz said that he had spoken to 
the Business Manager of the Tartan and 
that he thinks it best that we drop the 
matter of the increase in the Tartan bud
get until after the publication of the 
Carnegie Day issue on the 24th of No
vember. /
Mr. Shewitz read a letter from the In
ternational Relations Club, asking for an 
appropriation of $25 to be used for send
ing a delegate to a convention on De
cember 5. Mr. Van Arsdell asked Mr. 
Shewitz to get a budget from this or
ganization and to report to Council next 
week, i
Social Committee
Mr. Reisacher moved that the Cwens 
and Scimitars be allowed to hold their 
tea dance on Friday, November 13, in the 
Exhibition Room of the Fine Arts 
Building.
Motion carried.
Points itnd Keys Committee'
Mr. Lochhead read a list of organiza
tions petitioning for keys: Tri-Publica
tions, WAA, Scottie, Freshman Orienta
tions Committee, Technical, Kiltie Band, 
Tartan. He moved for the approval of 
these petitions.
Motion carried.
Mr. Schatz explained that all organi
zations which receive keys must pay for 
those keys out of their own budgets. 
Special Committee 
Miss Zonge reported that plans have 
been formulated for Techs observance of 
International Students Day. Miss Aron
son explained that on that day, November 
17, there will be an intensive drive to 
sell war stamps, to get blood donations, 
and* to add to the scrap collection.
Miss Zonge moved that Student Coun
cil approve the idea of observing Inter
national Students Day and give its sup
port to the project.
Motion carried.
Mr. Van Arsdell asked Mr. Boyce 1 
help Miss Zonge and Miss Aronson with 
their work on these plans.
Permanent Decorations Committee
Mr. Reisacher asked whether or not the 
Dorm Council dance scheduled for No
vember 7 is an all-school dance. Student 
Council decided that it was, since it is 
open 1 the public, and that therefore the 
Dorm Council should be charged the full 
rate for the decorations.
OLD BUSINESS
Mr. Van Arsdell pointed out that there 
is an all-school election scheduled for No
vember 24, which is Carnegie Day. He 
asked Mr. Beatty to look into the matter 
of setting another date for this election.
Mr. McDonald read a report from the 
committee appointed last week to inves
tigate the proportional representation 
plan. The committee feels that it will 
give proportional representation to Stu
dent Council, but that it will not guaran
tee a better form of student government. 
No definite recommendation was made to 
Council. Mr. Bluestein conducted a sam
ple election and explained the workings 
of the plan to Council.
Mr. Schatz moved that Council con
tribute $50 to the United War Fund.
Motion carried.
Mr. McDonald suggested another possi
ble plan for representation. It is similar 
to the other plan in that the representa
tives are elected at large from the col
leges. His suggestion assumes that there 
are two major factions on the campus. 
Mr. Shewitz suggested that Mr. McDon
ald work further on his plan, considering 
the recommendations made by Council, 
and report to Council later.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
LUCILLE ORR, 
Secretary.
fj ipfl 
A
Shirt Problem?>
Heres a quick solution to any shirt problem  
Arrow Whites, the shirts for any occasion. Theres 
the well-known Arrow threesome: the Hitt, Tramp, 
and Dart. Theres the Arrow Sussex with the wide
spread collar (also in fancy patterns), and theres 
that long-time winner, the Arrow Gordon Oxford, 
both with the regular collar and the button-down 
collar. $2.25 up.
See your Arrow dealer today for some Arrow whites, 
and dont forget to get some of those eye-filling, 
wrinkle-resistant Arrow ties. Theyre tops! $1 up.
* MJY V. S. WAR SOMDS ANO STAMPS i' .
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES  COLLARS  HANOKERCHIEFS  UNDERWEAR  SPORT SHIRTS
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS
ARROW PRODUCTS
Corner Forbes at Atwood
The old adage of all work, etc., 
doesnt hold in the Tartan office, for 
were neither dull (we hope) nor 
do we work all the time; next Fri
day evening Louisa Saul is throw
ing a party for the staff after our 
babys been put to sleep. Honor 
guests will be Jack Shore and Bar
bara Kramer, former Tartan News 
Editor, who recently announced 
their engagement.
And speaking of fun, the victims 
in McGill Hall would like to know 
who is putting dead rabbits in their 
beds. As a warning to any future 
connivers, the boys gagged and tied 
Dick Bundy and dumped him on the 
porch of Oak Hall at one oclock in 
the morning, where he froze pa
tiently until some dorm girls crept 
out and set him free.
Intersorority Council must have 
charm or Interfraternity Council 
must have money, or there must be 
a combination of both somewhere, 
for the Interfraternity boys are tak
ing the girls to the Nixon theater 
tomorrow night to see Lady in the 
Dark.
Pici
All pictures will be taken in back of 
the Carnegie Union.
Sunday, November 15 
2:00 Student Council.
2:15 Interfraternity Council.
2:30 Tau Beta Pi.
2:45 Theta Tau.
3:00 Scabbard and Blade.
3:15 Interhonorary Council.
3:30 Mens Christian Association. 
3:45 Omicron Delta Kappa.
4:00 Regimental Officers.
4:15 C. I. T. War Committee.
YOUR CHOICE'OF A BANK 
MAY BE THE BEGINNING 
OF A LONG AND USEFUL 
ASSOCIATION

mi
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MIMBBR FKDBRAL OSP08IT
INfUKANCI CORPORATION
Leave all notices for ON THE CAMPUS 
in Tech P. O. Box 409 by Friday noon of 
the week before publication.
Cwen-Scimitar Tea Dance: 
Communique No. 31
We were severely chastised when we 
erroneously reported that the CwenScimitar Tea Dance was to be held last 
Tuesday afternoon. But this time, dear 
chuEin, its true! Something new has 
been added, for it will be held this Friday 
afternoon at 4:30 in the Exhibition Room 
of Fine Arts Building. Just a little change 
ought to be good.
Household Ec. Club Victory Dinner
The gals of the Household Ec. Club over 
in Maggy Murph are gonna have a Vic
tory Dinner on Nov. 12, at 6 P. M. in the 
Union. Dr. Chworowsky of the Tech 
War Committee and Miss Helen Leavy of 
the O.C.D. will be guests. Dont look 
now, but the fee will be une demidollar. 
Want Ads
Confidentially, we hear that applica
tions for second semester scholarships are 
now available at the Student Employ
ment Office, Room 246 of Industries Hall. 
They must be returned by December 1st. 
Undergrad Math Club
Techs Undergraduate Mathematics Club 
plans its second meeting of the year for 
Friday, Nov. 13, at 3:30 P. M. in Room 
135-C of Industries Hall. Edward L. 
Fireman, Senior Math stude, will speak on 
Non-Euclidean Geometry. All interest
ed studes and faculty members are cor
dially invited.
Attention, Alpha Phi Omega Lads
Kappa Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, 
national Boy Scout Honorary, will hold a 
dinner meeting this Thursday evening at 
5:30 oclock in the Faculty Dining Room. 
Pres. Phil Britnell asks all pledges and 
actives to attend.
Tech Discussion Group
Techs Discussion Group, the people 
who discuss everything from national 
politics to Student Representation on 
Campus (Tartan, Oct. 24!) will hold their 
regular Tuesday morning meeting today, 
at 12:30, in Room 229-C of Industries Hall. 
Theyre still in the election rut, for to
days discussion, which will be led by 
Allen Perlis, will be on 'The Depart
mental Plan of Elections.
Hobo Party
The Lutheran Student Association comes 
through with plans for an intercollege 
Hobo Party. It will be held at The Lit
tle Church Around the Corner (Pitt Ca
thedral of Learning to the frosh) this 
Friday afternoon at 5:30 in Room 128. 
Supper, singing, and, it says right here, 
folk-dancing, all fo fohty cents (40c!).
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700
Fifth near Mellon Institute
(t'a.
Duty
Calls...
A working, sacrificing, fighting America must keep morally and 
physically fitmentally alert. If you are one of the 16 million Amer
ican men and women for whom Bowling provides a regular stimulat
ing recreation, you are co-operating with Uncle Sams health program. 
Keeping yourself physically and mentally alert is an important duty 
not to be neglected. Bowl a few lines each weekat the beautiful
MURRAY-BEACON ALLEYS
JAckson 02661916 MURRAY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1042THE CARNEGIE TARTAR6
r CID yf
STRICTLY CAMELS 
WITH ME. THAT 
RICH, FULL FLAVOR
ALWAYS TASTES GREAT. 
AND THEY'RE 
/MILDER ALL
WAYS >
IN THE BOMBER COMMAND
'ey say:
"OFFICE" for the bombardiers place 
GREENHOUSE for planes transparent nose
"ROGER" for okay or all right 
"CAMEL" for the Army mans favorite cigarette
FIRST IN THE SERVICE
With men in the Army, Navy, Marines, and Coast Guard, the 
favorite cigarette is Camel. (Based on actual sales records 
in Post Exchanges and Canteens.)
B. 3. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winstonr Salem. North Carolina
FTSPFOVLZS/
NTSWS YCU<WSIISD 
<WS judUSd
The "T-ZONE"Taste and Throatis the prov
ing ground for cigarettes. Only your taste and 
throat can decide which cigarette tastes best to 
you... and how it affects your throat. For your 
taste and throat are absolutely individual to 
you. Based on the experience of millions of 
smokers, we believe Camels will suit your 
"T-ZONE" to a "T." Prove it for yourself!COSTLIER TOBACCOS
TURKISH & DO* pf* BLEND 
^ CIGARETTES
Noottegi
--Et
Grid Results Best In Recent Years, 
Team Shows Rapid Improvement
By Don Watkins, Sports Writer
With the close of the current foot
ball season comes the realization of 
the fact that the work performed 
by this years team was far superior 
to that of any recent years.
Seasons Record
Techs record, while not of a sen
sational nature, it is worthy of 
praise. The final tallies show the 
Tartans with a .500 average. This 
is good in view of the past few sea
sons, when a victory of any sort 
was good cause for riotous celebra
tion.
The Geneva game was very dis
appointing to those of us who ex
pected something better out of this 
years squad. From more recent 
observances of the team, however, 
it is evident that the contest with 
the Covenanters was an example 
of first game jitters.
Westminster showed the Skibo 
fans that they could expect some 
good ball playing from their team 
this year. The Case game proved 
this point, for, despite a defeat from 
the Rough Riders, the Tartans gave 
a good account of themselves
against the admittedly superior 
team.
Grove City was no match for the 
Skibos, of course, but the odds were 
against them in the Buffalo game. 
The Pitt conflict was one of the best 
games from the point of view of 
the Tartans. The power shown at 
various stages of this game was 
evidence of the improvement made 
in this years team.
New Intramural Sport
Inaugurating a new intramural 
sport, the Intramural Managers 
Club is sponsoring competition over 
the obstacle course between various 
campus organizations. The compe
tition is being run off on Monday, 
Wednesday, and Friday of this week 
at 4:30 P. M. with managers from 
each organization serving as 
referees.
Each team is composed of five 
men, whose time over the course 
will be averaged, giving the teams 
score. The winner will be the team 
with the lowest time recorded.
Game With Slippery Rock 
Winds Up Soccer Season
Last Saturday the Carnegie Tech 
soccer team wound up the season 
with a 0-1. loss to Slippery Rock. 
The Teachers got their one score 
in the first part of the fourth quar
ter. Outstanding players for Slip
pery Rock were the two fullbacks, 
whos good playing halted several 
Tartan attempts to score. The op
posing team had good teamwork, 
and their passing tactics proved to 
be of good avail. The Tech booters 
played a very good game, but there 
was a marked lack of teamwork.
A few of our more outstanding 
players of the season are: in the for
ward lineNick Yaru, sophomore, 
Schwartz and Chris Smith, both 
seniors; in the backfield  Nelson 
Crooks, senior, and Dick Lindgren, 
and Fritz, both sophomores. Jack 
Sherwood has proved to be an ex
cellent goalie throughout the sea
son, Saturdays game being no ex
ception. 1
The record for the season is one 
game won and four lost. This is not 
good, but is a slight improvement 
over last year when we didnt win 
any at all. i
Victorious Harriers 
Complete Season
To complete the best Cross Coun
try season in the last few years, the 
Tech Harriers outran Geneva to win 
by the decisive score of 19-36. The 
Geneva moet was the third win of 
the season for the Tartans who 
downed Westminster and Bethany 
to win a mythical District Cham
pionship.
Bill Beamer took first place for 
Tech and set a new record for the 
College Hill course at Geneva. Don 
Crawford, star Geneva freshman, 
finished ten seconds behind Beamer 
to place second. Tech made a clean 
sweep of the next six places. Tech 
freshman, Fred Kelsey ran a good 
race and copped third place. Ben 
Puchaski, John Greene, Paul Rotzler, and Nick Teresi, all of Tech fin
ished among the first ten runners. 
The record breaking time for the 
five mile College Hill route was 25 
minutes and 38 seconds.
This year the freshmen aided the 
varsity in winning the meets. In 
fact the freshmen this year will 
have to fill the places vacated by 
their three graduating team mates.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE OARNEGXE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1942
3TUc dTarnete piaid
Nov. 14 Brings Ches Walters 
Here For All-College Dance
Something really super is in the 
offing Saturday night, worthy even 
of a girls last pair of nylonsthe 
much postponed, long awaited first 
dance of the fall season. Adept 
at reminscent or up-to-the-minute 
dance music is Ches Walters and 
his band, noted for his sweet 
treatment of the blues. His rhythm 
is familiar to the Pittsburgh cam
puses, for he has played at Pitt, Duquesne, P. C. W., and Mt. Mercy 
dances. Featured with the band is 
group singing by orchestra mem
bers which forms a smooth accom
paniment to the really mellow sax 
section. Incidentally, his sax ar
rangements have an individual 
touch in that a tenor lead is featur
ed rather than an alto.
A novel theme in decoration, yet 
one in keeping with the fall season, 
has been planned for Thistle Hall. 
Especially exciting is the new light
ing effect and the unbelievablea 
completely remodeled, overhauled 
crystal ball!
Though Council Officers have 
been working for weeks on plans for 
the affair, there is still much, much 
more to be done. Everyone, new 
students in particular, is urged to 
come and help out. Points toward 
an insignia award can be earned by 
helping out at the work periods 
Saturday afterpoon before the 
dance on the 14th, the evening of 
the dance, and the cleanup period 
on Sunday following the dance.
For those who like cokes and 
chatter along with their rug cutting, 
the Black Cat Room will be open. 
Since it is the initial All College 
Dance combining Arts, Engineering, 
and Industries, this is a good op
portunity to meet students from the 
other schools and also to see old 
friends. Admisison for students is 
by registration card, or $1.10 per 
couple for outsiders.
Social Committee To 
Organize This Week
Any student interested in becom
ing a member of the Evening School 
Social Committee is requested to re
port to the Carnegie Union Wed
nesday evening, November 11th, for 
an organization meeting. Member
ship is open to any evening student, 
including girls. By serving on the 
committee Insignia award points 
can be earned. Please report 
promptly at ten-thirty P. M. in Con
ference Room A, second floor of 
the Carnegie Union.
Museum Now Displays 
Miniature Collection
An interest in early American 
furniture and the hobby of collect
ing miniatures started Mrs. James 
Ward Thorne, a wealthy Chicago 
society woman, on her collection of 
miniature rooms which are now on 
exhibit at the Carnegie Museum. 
This fascinating collection consists 
of thirty-seven American rooms, 
dating from 1650 to 1942; they are 
exact replicas of homes typical of 
their time.
The rooms range from an eight
eenth century tavern, complete with 
bars and bottles, and a luxurious 
Georgia planters home to a com
pletely modern 1942 penthouse with 
translucent plastic chairs, authentic 
surrealistic miniatures on the walls, 
and the San Francisco skyline 
which can be seen through the 
French doors.
These miniatures rooms, one of 
the most popular exhibits ever pre
sented, will be shown on the sec
ond floor of the Museum until De
cember 2nd. Mrs. Thome and six
teen craftsmen completed the rooms 
in three years; Mrs. Thome herself 
made the drapes and mgs, and did 
all the research required to make 
them perfect. Each room, abso
lutely authentic in all detail and 
complete with background and 
scenery, is valued at $3,000.
% *7<6e CditoA.
You know Industries is just as 
important a part of Evening School 
as Engineering or Fine Arts, and 
yet, they are without an officer to 
represent them in Student Council. 
This is a deplorable situation. Why 
isnt something done about it?
I know just as well as you the 
qualifications a student must have 
to become an officer. I also know 
that you havent found anyone in 
Industries with these qualifications, 
but there are many good men over 
here who have been coming to Tech 
for four or five years and the only 
qualification they lack is the posses
sion of an activities key. Now why 
dont you let the bars down and 
have a couple of these fellows be
come officers and give us boys in 
Industries an equal representation 
in Student Council.
(Signed) P. B.
HANDKERCHIEF TEST PROVES VITAL ZONE
NO /HATTER HOW OFTEN YOU SHOO IT
Now it can be toldthe heaviest 
single article handed into the scrap 
drive the other week was Mary Joe 
Webers charm bracelet . . . You 
fellows who park around Margaret 
Morrison on Tuesday and Wednes
day evenings better watch your 
fenders  reason  Mary Hensler is 
driving her car to school now and 
take it from me, Ive seen her try 
to park . . . Things are popping for 
the dance this weekend  Come 
early, bring your crowd, and have a 
super-marvelous time . . . You 
remember that handsome gigolo 
from EngineeringTom Irvine de
serted Carnegie for Penn State and 
guess whatthey made him a fresh
manafter his working so hard for 
two semesters ... Ed Williams has 
dated up a really glamor-puss 
blonde for the big shindig on the 
14th . . . The latest recruit for 
Uncle Sams Army is Frank Carroll 
he knows we all wish him the best 
luck and feel sure he is clever 
enough to dodge KP . . . Whos 
mad and I am gladbut dont know 
how to please himtoo bad certain 
people cant take a little honest crit
icism without getting sore . . . 
Have you heard the latest Moron 
jokethe girl who cut off a finger 
so she could write shorthandwe 
know, you heard that one before 
. . . Miss Gebhart, the alluring 
Maggie Murph student, would be an 
asset to any office .
wACHINISFVL.TOOL and DIE MAKING 
I INSTRUMENT MAKINGCourses 3 to 12 Weeks
FOR MEN &. WOMEN I Expert Individual Instruction 
I Write, Phone or Call 9 a.m.-9:30p.m. 
9  We employ no solicitors 
METROPOLITAN
TECHNICAL 
SCHOOL t
260 I. 41 St.. N.Y. LOngacre 3-2180
Licensed by State of New York
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Stu
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
All views or opinions expressed in edi
torial column are not necessarily endorsed 
by the Editorial Board of the Day School 
staff.
Editor 
Nancy E. Lewis
Associate Editor of Engineering 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts 
Marion Frogt 
Staff
June A pel S. W. Marcinizyn
John Castellano D. Pettigrew, Jr.
Albert Kerstukos Pearl Pettola
Edward A. Macha Joseph M. Rymar
Robert Poznanski Robert Lenigan
James Flaherty Albert Flanders
Mary Hensler Mary Jo Weber
Council Officers 
Named At Meeting
The students to serve as officers 
of Student Council are selected from 
representatives of each of the four 
Colleges of Carnegie Tech. Conse
quently, at a meeting of the Coun
cil held in Carnegie Union on Sun
day, November 1, the following of
ficers were appointed by the Presi
dent, Steven W. Marcinizyn, for the 
ensuing year; Vice President, Rob
ert AungstTreasurer, Ed Macha 
Secretary, Albert Kerstukos and as 
Social Chairman, Albert Flanders.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
FYPEWRIFERS
2*?
ALL
MAKES
 $3.00 per 
II Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantio 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
