BASKET BALL 
PITT 
FRIDAY NIGHTararne tatt
-------------------------------------------
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
TODAY 
MUSIC HALL
VOL. XXII No. 15CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1928
TARTAN QUINTET 
LOSES TO WEST VA. 
AND DAVIS-ELKINS
Defeat No Indication of Plaid 
Strength; Absence of 
Hitchcock Serious Handicap
MEET GENEVA TONITE 
AND PITT ON FRIDAY
No Home Games Until After 
Exams. First Local Contest 
February 8, with Pitt.
It surely was a disastrous and very 
unsatisfactory trip which the Plaid 
squad took through West Virginia, 
ending as it did with two defeats to 
usher in the highly speculative 1928 
season.
But, instead of contributing to the 
huge chorus of I told you sos, and 
To be expected, it is only fair that 
Coach Irwins men should be given 
much deserved credit and the condi
tions of their defeat be taken into 
consideration.
Leaving Pittsburgh with only sev
eral substitutes and a team greatly 
weakened by the absence of Hitch
cock, who was sick, the Tartans laundj: 
ed at Elkins to play their initial 
game againsli a team which could be 
classed as one of the strongest in the 
country. The diminutive, Carnegie 
quintet was completely overshadowed 
by the six-foot Senators, with a 238 
pound, forward and an extremely small 
court, the home boys were hard push
ed to keep the score as small as it 
was. At the end of the first half the 
Skibos were trailing by six points, the 
score being 17 to 11. The Senators 
seemed to come back inspired for they 
started in with the opening whistle 
to pile up a lead which was too much 
for the gamely fighting Tartans.
Leaving Elkins the Skibo floormen 
ascended into the mountaineers 
stronghold at Morgantown to face a 
team which was more than anxious to 
avenge their grid defeat. Here the 
Tartans played a spectacular and 
high commendable game; much better 
than the score indicated. At one time 
during the first half the Mountaineers 
had piled up a 13 point lead but a 
number of brilliant plays by Captain 
White and his teammates ate up the 
lead and evened the score. Again it 
was merely a repetition of the Elkins 
defeat. With no suitable men to sub
stitute, the badly winded Plaid quin
tet was unable to withstand the spir
ited onslaught of the West Virginians 
who proceeded to pile up a comforta
ble lead, then settled back to a defen
sive game which put the screws to 
any liopes for a winning score for the 
Skibos.
Captain White was the most con
sistent as well as the most spectacu(Continued on Page Six.)
ATTENTION OF SENIORS
IS CALLED TO INTERVIEWS
January 12, from 9:00 to 11:00 A. 
M.f Mr. H. L. Fountain, of the Ohio 
Public Service Co. for Electrical and 
Mechanical Seniors.
January 16, Mr. M. M. Boring, of 
General Electric Co. will be here at 
9:30 for Electrical and Mechanical 
Seniors.
January 24, Mr. M. L. Frederick of 
General Electric Co. will be here both
A. M. and P. M. for the Printers and 
Commercial Seniors.
Further informaton regarding in
terviews will be posted in the Tartan 
and on the bulletin boards in the near 
future.
It is also earnestly requested that 
the Seniors Employment Record 
Blanks be turned in signed as soon 
as possible to the Bureau of Recom
mendation office, so that they may be 
filed and interviews definitely ar
ranged.
Education of Women is Now Necessary 
in the Progressive Business World
What is Your Contribution For the
Advantages Carnegie Has Given You?
Courses In Shops And 
Studio To Be Opened 
To Night Students
New Registrations Will be 
Held Jan. 16 Enrollment 
Expected to Reach 4000
Examinations Scheduled 
For Week Of Jan. 20-27
Following the annual custom, shop 
courses of the College of Industries 
and a few of the studio courses of the 
College of Fine Arts of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology have been re
opened to night students for the re
mainder of the college year.
New registrations will be made 
nominally for the second term begin
ning January 16, it is announced, al
though any new students who enroll 
prior to the opening of the second 
term will be permitted to attend 
classes free during the first term.
As a result of the re-opening of the 
shop and studio courses, Carnegie of
ficials estimate that the night, regis
tration will be increased by about 200 
new students during the current 
month. The present enrollment of 
nearly' 3,700 may grow to nearly 4,000 
before the end of the college year, it 
is expected.
Shop courses available in the Col
lege of Industries for new students 
include foundry, machine work, 
plumbing, printing, welding, sheet 
metal, woodworking, patternmaking, 
storage batteWes, mechanical draft
ing, bricklaying and masonry, heat
ing and ventilating, structural and ar
chitectural drafting, electric . equip
ment and construction, and forging 
and heat treatment of steel. In the 
College of Fine Arts, courses in sculp
ture and music are re-opened to new 
students.
Preliminary Tickets For 
Womens Prom On Sale
Just how much is a girls education 
worth, lias been a question long de: 
bated. Even today some folks weigh 
heavily the idea of a woman having 
a college education at all. High 
school training is not sufficiently 
adequate to suffice the demands of 
a modern successful employer. It is 
very evident that a girl who leaves 
school without any special training 
cannot earn much more than the cost 
of living, but those who take advan
tage of the advance courses are able 
to command larger salaries and may 
expect, eventually to receive far 
more than the less educated woman.
In 1920 there were over a million 
women in professional service in the 
United Stares. Over ten million wo
men skilled or unskilled were em
ployed from the chief cities of United 
States to work in schools, factories 
and department stores. Standards of 
preparation for almost every business 
occupation have been moving forward 
during the past century.. The suc
cessful employer now demands of his 
young workers, at least a high school
training. At the same time this man 
realizes how' much more efficiently a 
college graduate would fulfill the va
cancy.
Many of these vacancies are now 
being filled by women graduates of 
Margaret Morrison College. Al
though 56 per cent of the older gradu
ates of this college have taken the 
wedding -VO the other 44 per cent 
are actively engaged in worthy occu
pations. The graduates of the courses 
in Secretarial Studies are especially 
in lemand because their education 
covers a broad scope of both academic 
and secretarial studies.
Some graduates of Margaret Mor
rison have received salaries as high 
as $3,600 a year with a comparatively 
short interval since graduation. Thnno 
students who have entered the fields 
of science and home economics have 
achieved the greatest success in tlie 
way of remuneration. Secretarial. 
wrork follows very closely. The aver
age salary of a college, graduate of a 
technical school ranges from $1,200 
ontinued on Page Five.)
STUDENT COUNCIL RULES 
NO ARTS BALL THIS YEAR
Other Business Includes Sopho
more Banquet Reparation 
and Money Additions.
At the Student Council meeting last 
Tuesday evening, it was reported by 
Mr. Seibert, President of the Art 
School Senate, that there would be no 
Arts Ball this year, due to the re
fusal of the Arts Senate to back the 
affair. It had been previously agreed 
that the Senate would support the 
Ball if a certain number of tickets 
were sold before Christmas. The 
money failed to come in, so the pro
bability is that there will be an Arts 
Ball next year and from then 011, there 
will be one only every other year.
A letter from Mr. Tarbell listed a 
number of inactive bank accounts of 
organizations 110 longer in existence 
and suggested that the Student Coun
cil take them over. Council approved 
the suggestion and took over the 
whole sum which amounted to aimost 
$12. A complaint letter from I.
(Continued on Page Five.)
Women Begin Plans 
For Annual Senior Ball
PRINTING DEPT FOUNDER 
TO SPEAK IN INDUSTRIES
Mr. Gage To Return January 10 
To Talk In Assembly On 
Printing: As An Art.
Harry L. Gage, of Now York, N. Y., 
who organized the Department of 
Printing at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology and served as the de
partment head for several years, will 
jleliver a leoture on "Printing as a 
Fine Art, Tuesday, January 10, in 
the Assembly Hall of the Colloge of 
industries at 3:30 p. m. The lecturo 
is free to the general public as well 
as to the, students of the Department 
of Printing.1.The coming lecture Is the, second 
of a series of fifteen on printing and 
related subjects arranged by the 
Printing Department I11 co-operation 
with the United Typothetae of Amer
ica. Experts in a variety of special
ized fields in the printing industry 
have accepted invitations to deliver 
the series this year.
The third,of the series will be given 
on Fra'nklin Day, January 17, when 
Colonel Edward T. Miller, executive 
secretary of the Unitod Typothetae 
of America, Chicago, will discuss 
Organization and Management.
January twentieth to the twentyseventh has been announced as ex
amination week. No longer do exami
nations loom in the far distant future;
110 longer can one safely go along 
with the vague idea that one will 
start to study bye and bye. Vacation 
is over with its late hours and good^f 
fun, and the recent resolutions to get 
eight hours of sleep (at night only) 
have been reluctantly enforced. But 
the appearance of the examination 
schedule makes one realize abruptly 
that exams are a definite, concrete 
thing which have to be prepared for 
immediately and that perhaps even 
the resolutions have 'been resolved 
too late to accomplish good ends. 
For the next three 'weeks an evening 
spent in study will be the vogue on 
the campus and to the majority of 
students who need the terrorizing 
stimulus of the examination schedule 
to startle them opening books, the 
coming nights will be ones spent in 
devouring in large and undigested 
bites thethoughts of authors and pro
fessors on certain subjects. The four 
weeks are one big upheaval of ones 
energies from their former sluggish
ness, and victory coi^ies only to those 
who can gather their strength to
gether for a steep uphill run with the 
promise of a four-months rest after 
January the twenty-seventh.
The examination schedule is itself 
made with much labor and tender 
care in order that as a rule only one 
examination must be taken by a stu
dent in a single day and so that as 
many conflicts as can be prevented 
are avoided. However, any conflicts 
in examinations must be reported im
mediately by the student to the head 
of his department.
The first preliminary ticket sale for 
the Women's Prom scheduled to be 
held at the University Club on Feb
ruary 24 opened yesterday. The first 
assessment by class vote has been 
made compulsory for all Junior girls 
whether the student attends Prom or 
not. This measure was necessary on 
account of the comparative smallness 
of the third year class. ,
The ticket sale is under the direc
tion of Barbara Renwiclc, Library De
partment in Margaret Morrison and 
Irene Tedrow, Drama Department in 
Arts School. In order that all mem
bers of the various departments shall 
be reached a sub-committee has been 
chosen composed of one student from 
each department. These, girls will 
be held responsible for the sale of 
tickets in her section.
The price of this first ticket is $5.00. 
Staggering? Yes, "But, Junior Prom 
is the biggest social event of an under
graduate students college life. Every 
student looks forward to her own 
(Continued on Page Five.)
FIRM REPRESENTATIVES
WILL ATTEND DINNER AT INN
Representatives of 29 Pittsburgh 
firms that each employ at least ten 
night* students among the 3.600 
evening students of the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology will be guests 
of President Thomas S. Baker and 
his associates at a dinner at the Car
negie Inn next Wednesday night, 
January 11. The number of students 
employed by the firms to be repre
sented at the dinner range from 10 
to 400.
The program for the evening will 
be devoted to informal discussion of 
problems affecting the continued edu
cation and training of employees and 
the adaptation of Carnegie Techs 
evening courses in relation to the 
need of the industries. A group of 
about 35 executives is expected to at
tend.
Plans for the Womens Senior Ball,; 
annual formal affair given by the 
women of Margaret Morrison and 
Arts, to be held 011 March 9, are be
ing formulated under the chairman
ship of Hannah Eastman, social chair
man of the Senior class. Last Thurs
day evening a meeting of representa
tive Senior women wras held, at which 
committees were appointed. The or
chestras under consideration by Eve
lyn Offut and Betty Hays, both of 
whom are in the P. and D. depart
ment in charge of Music, are Dan 
Gregorys Orchestra, Whitey Kauff
man and his band, and Dave Har
mon's. Mary McGuire, Household 
Economics, and Virginia Rose, Eng
lish Minor, who will be responsible 
for the location, are attempting to se
cure the William Penn, the Univer
sity Club, or the Pittsburgh Country 
Club. The Ways and Means Commit
tee, composed of Betty Calvin, Cos
tume Economics department and Dot 
Smith, Painting and Decorating are 
aiding Alice Mclnnes of the Secre
tarial Department, secretary and 
Doris Purdum of the Costume Econ
omics Department, treasurer, of the 
occasion in handling the finances for 
the Ball.- Favors are to be secured 
by Adele Hahn, Household Economics. 
Advertising and Publicity have been 
placed in the hands of Lucille Galmich, Household Economics. As the 
committees have not yet had a chance 
to meet and arrive at definite plans, 
more specific information about the 
Ball is not available, but will appear 
in future issues of the Tartan.
THURSDAY TEA DANCE TO
BE FIRST IN MANY WEEKS
So much time has elapsed since 
the last afternoon dance at the Union 
that this event has become almost as 
popular as the Arts Ball this year. 
Now, as the lull before the storm, 
conies a Tea Dance, a Grand Finale 
just procoding exams. Thursday at 
4 oclock.
The Dormitory Council backing the 
dance, is to be congratulated and ex
tended thanks for providing another 
of these enjoyable affairs. Such di
vergents as theso should be more in 
evidence at the Union.
Ralph Kruclc and his Tartans, a 
well-known local band, will entertain 
and it is hoped furnish initiative to 
other organizations for the sponsor
ing of similar events at more fre
quent intervals. Admission Thursday 
is 25 cents.
Whitey Kaufmans 
Orchestra Will Play 
At Country Club
Committee Select Attractive 
Favors for the Mens 
Junior Prom
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
AT CARNEGIE MUSIC 
HALL 11:45 TODAY
The First Assembly of 1928 
to be Featured by Special 
Program of Popular Music
ASSEMBLIES ON FIRST 
TUESDAYS IN MONTH
Executive Board Approves Sched
ule of Assemblies Next 
Semester.
Less than three weeks remain until 
the biggest social affair 011 the. Carne
gie social calendar, the Mens Junior 
Prom. Whitey Kaufmans orchestra 
has been secured for. the Prom, thus 
insuring the best musici which can be 
secured for a collegiate affair of this 
magnitude.
"Whitey ICaufmann recently com
pleted a weeks stay at the Penn Tlioa-1 
ter. He and his orchestra played at 
the Penn State Hop which was hold 
recently at Wobstor Hall. They have 
also played at numerous dances in and 
around Erie, Pa. These artists will 
perform from 9 until 2 in the ball 
room of the Pittsburgh Country Club.
The second ticket sale will be con
tinued this wcolc under the direction 
of Spook Seibert. Ticket sales will 
be conducted I11 the halls of the throe 
schools, today, at 12:30 p. 111. Evory0110 Intending to attend the Prom 
should co-oporato with the committee 
and buy their tickets now and bus 
give the committee some In
dications of tho number of 
students who will attend. Tho 
prlco of the socond tlckots Is $3 plus 
tho first tlclcot as the socond tlckots 
are worth $5. Those may bo pur
chased outright for $5 If the studont 
did not buy a first ticket.
Aft(Sr sovoral weeks of careful so-, 
lection tho committee luivo decided 
011 (the favors for tho Prom. Tho 
stocks of spvon or eight companies 
were carefully gone over in order to 
pick out a favor which would bo at
tractive, useful, and above all unique.
J. M. Froelick Speaks 
At A.I.E.E. Meeting
, Mr. J. M. Froelick of the Duquosne 
Light Company of Pittsburgh will be
the speaker at the A. I. E. E. meeti and this favor more than comes up to
The first general assembly of 1923 
will be held today at 11:30, in Car
negie Music Hall. The musical pro
gram, arranged by Harold Jacobson, 
will be entirely different from the en
tertainment furnished at any prev
ious asembly.
The program will consist entirely 
of popular music. Ralph Kruclc anti 
his Tartans will furnish the orches
tra music. This is said to be a very 
fine dance orchestra and those who 
favor this type of music should thor
oughly enjoy themselves. Nita Davis 
will give her interpretation of Jazzomania in Dan'celand. Miss Davis is a 
student in the Painting and Decora
tion department. Mildred Core, a 
member of the Music department, 
will sing popular selections. This 
will undoubtedly make a popular and 
peppy assembly. To start the new 
year right, the entire studont body 
should attend this interesting assem
bly.
The schedule of! assemblies for the 
second semester as approved by the 
Executive Board 011 January 4, 1928, 
Is as follows:
FEBRUARY.
7thGeneral assembly.
21stSoparato college assemblies.
MARCH.
6thGeneral assembly.
20thSoparato college assemblies.
APRIL.
3rdNo assemblyEastor recess.
lOfihSeparate colloge assemblies.
17 thGeneral assembly.
MAY.
1st.'General assembly.
8thOpon.
11.51)1Separate college assemblies.
22ndNo assemblyexaminations.
27th---No assemblyexaminations.
JUNE.
5thNo assembly  Commence
ment Exorcises.
STUDENTS MEET TODAY TO 
DISCUSS NEW MAGAZINE
THETA TAU MEETING TO BE
HELD THURSDAY EVENING
ing Wednesday, January 11. He will 
speak on "Radio Interference from a 
Central Station Viewpoint.
Considerable work has been done 
to analyze the causes of the various 
interfering moans and groahs that 
come at some inopportune times. 
Every person who has at any time 
operated a radio has had disgustful 
moments due to interference from 
power lines. Mr. Froelick has done 
extensive work for the Duquesne 
Light Company to find the various 
causes and remedies for it.
At this lecture be will set up suffi
cient apparatus to demonstrate the 
various sounds. 1-Ie will illustrate 
liow extensive the results are, ob
tained in his research for the remedy. 
The A. I. E. E. is very fortunate in 
obtaining Mr. Froelick for this sub
ject i of great importance and ex
tensive research is being done on it 
by great electrical concerns.
Today is one of the most outstand
ing dates for 1928 in the A. I. E. E. 
calendar, for it is the date of the tri
school conference. The afternoon will 
be marked by a student conference, 
and the evening by a Pittsburgh 
branch meeting. Program: At 12:30
Pitt, West Virginia, and Carnegie A.
I. E. Es. will have luncheon at the 
Carnegie Library cafeteria; 1:15, in
spection . of Carnegies laboratories; 
1:45, inspection of Pitts laboratories; 
2:15, program at Fellows Room, MelA meetting of Theta Tau, national 
honorary fraternity, will be held 
j Thursday evening, January 12, at 
' 7:30 p. m. in the office of J. M. Dan
iels, Science Building.
During the meeting a report of the 
national convention, held In Chicago 
over the holidays, will be given by 
Paul W. Davis, Carnegie chapter rep
resentative.
There is a probability, also, that 
another call will be made soon.
these requirements. This favor Is 
entLrely different than any which has 
ever boen given at previous Proms.
Carnegie Graduate Wins 
Newspaper Essay Award
Lyle P. Sheppard, a Carnegie gradu
ate in Commercial Engineering in
1927, was the winner of a $250 prize 
offered by the Pittsburgh Press for 
the best essay on Life Insurance. 
Sheppards essay was entitled "The 
Value of Life Insurance.
Sheppard, white /at Carnegie, was 
engaged in many activities. He was 
a member of the Sigma Nu fraternity, 
a member of Theta Tau and Delta 
Skull, honorary fraternity, was Fresh
man football manager, and president 
of his class in his Junior year. Shep
pards home is in Parkersburg, W. 
Va.
The judges of the contest were: 
Chancellor John G. Bowman of Pitt, 
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, and Dr. William 
M. Davidson, superintendent of Pitts
burgh school.
AN ALL-HONORARY DANCE
SUGGESTED FOR NEW YEAR
An all-honoraries dance may be the 
next annual affair on the campus. T.
Ion Institute, Pitt. The program at, C. Wray, Tau Beta PI, proposed this
Today at *1:30 p. m., tho second 
mooting of those interested In the pub
lication Of a literary magazine at 
Carnegie Tech will bo held In Room 
106, Colloge of Fine Arts.
The first meeting, held Novombo': 
30 resulted in the appointment of a 
committee consisting of Margaret 
Russell, Kathryn Pierson, Abe Frauk, 
Harold Jacobson, and Walter Rogers, , 
who have Investigated various phases , 
connected with the publishing, a* 
new magazine. This committee Is . 
now ready to make a report 011 their 
investigations; the magazine has 
been determined; samples of publi
cations similar1 to the one being 
planned for Carnegie have been se
cured from other schools; and the 
possibilities of a literary magazine at 
Carnegie have been thoroughly stu
died by the committee. ,
It Is essential that everyone inter
ested in securing a position on the 
staff of the proposed magazine attend 
the meeting today, as definite plans 
will be formulated. It Is also urged 
that anyone who has a suggestion 
that will add to the success of a liter
ary magazine at Carnegie Tech bo 
present at the meeting, prepared to 
offer his idea in written form.
In a recent interview, Walter Rog
ers, who is chairman of the magazine 
investigation committee, said, "The 
committee feels at present that the 
first Issue will be floated by subscrip
tions of a group of individuals who 
are interested in Carnegie having a 
literary magazine. The succeeding 
issues, it is hoped, will support them
selves. Mr. Rogers then went on to 
say that a good deal of enthusiasm 
about the new magazine is being 
shown on the campus and great things 
are expected.
the Fellows Room will consist of six 
talks on selected, subjects , of techni
cal interest, by students; an address 
by Bancroft Gherardl, Vice President 
of the American Telephone & Tele
graph Company, President of the na
tional A. I. JO. E., three student talks 
on A. I. E. E. activities, with discus
sions of the talks.
In the evening, the Pittsburgh 
branch A. I. E. E. is holding a joint 
(Continued on Page Five.)
some time ago, as yet nothing definite 
has been done about It. However, the 
suggested plans have been to hold a 
dance conducted by the members of 
Tau Beta PI, Alpha Tau, and perhaps 
soveral other honoraries from the 
science and Industries schools, and 
those fraternities to Invite the 
honoraries from the other schools. 
The matter will be taken up in detail 
later when something more definite 
can be arranged.
RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTS
PUBLISHED BY MINING DEPT.
Bulletin 35, of the Mining Depart
ment, was sent to the printers during 
the holidays. This bulletin contains, 
the results of experiments carried oir 
here, covering cost and efficiency of 
methods of treating mine and struc
tural timber. The bulletin is 300" 
pages long, and contains 60 illustra
tions.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1928
Extending College 
Influences Intp The 
Life Of Its Alumni
Carnegie Corporation Backs 
Activities for Further
ing Idea
There was recently an article in 
Ihe New York Time dealing with the 
scope of tho Influence of the college.
Since it has to do with the activities 
of the Carnegie Corporation, we 
thought'our alumni might he Interest
ed, to read thin:
Plans to extend the Intellectual ac
tivities of college men and women be
yond: ; commencement and make them
a permanent part of graduate life are _________ ^ ^ ^
being formulated by a committee] (j00r f,0^ tournament, and the other 
whleh > 1 hr; Calnegie Corporation of | tt d|nI)er aumI imnd-sliaKe tor the lootNrjw York Ib Hupportiug to the extent j i)a]| tGIlnl when they stopped in Mllof $16,000 a year, il has been learned.,,iwaukoo on their rgLurn from Oregon
T
I.CLAN NEWS
MILWAUKEE
The. Milwaukee Clan is still going 
along, although It hasn't been heard 
from for quite a while. At a recent 
meeting an election was held and new 
officers elected for the coming year. 
Those elected were as follow we
PresidentA. H. Tosteson, 737 
Fortieth street.
Secretaary and TreasurerN. L. 
Dlttmer, 540 Second avenue, Wauwa
tosa.
The Milwaukee Clan meets once a 
month for lunch at the Stratford 
Arms Hotel. The day 1 the first 
Monday of each month, and the time 
Is, 12:1.0. in case any out-of-town Carnogle men should be in Milwaukee on 
our luncheon date, we would surely 
appreciate their being with us.
Recently the Clan had two social 
functions, one was a dinner and in
The aims and methods of the under
taking were explained in an nterview 
with Daniel L. Grant, director, at the 
Carnegie offices at 1522 Fifth avenue.
The emphasis in modern Ameri
can college and university life has 
fallen just a little off key, he said. 
"Today there are several distinct in
terests which hold the allmnus or 
alumni to the Alma Mater. We might 
classify them as social, athletic, 
financial, and, in some cases, political. 
Nowhere do we hear much of the in
tellectual interests forming any link 
after commencement.
 Our object is, in the first place, to 
make a thorough study of present 
methods, where they exist, of main
taining the intellectual link between 
educational institutions and grad
uates; and in the second place, to fost
er such relationships throughout the 
country.
We want to do this work not betiftuse of any conception that intellect
ual activity is profitable in the ma
terial sense of the word, but because 
we honestly believe that Intelligent 
men and women will find more pleas
ure in giving reign to interest in vari
ous branches of learning than, say, In 
week-end parties or cocktails.
The time is ripe now for such an 
undertaking, for never before have 
we had so much leisure in this coun
try. Furthermore, while communities 
have concentrated on educating the 
poor, the ignorant immigrants, and 
the1 negroes of the South, they have 
neglected the already educated. This 
Is not a paradoxical statement, for it 
is tlie already educatedthat is, the 
man or woman who has attended col
lege, them dropped Intellectual con
tactsthat Is best equipped and most 
ready to benefit by a renewal of those, 
contacts.
In order to accomplish our alms 
we shall co-operate with the Amer
ican Association for Adult Education, 
supported by Carnegie funds, and with 
the American Alumni Council, com
prising college and university alumni 
secrolaV'les,  alumni magazine editors, 
and those In charge of alumni funds.
Few colleges have done much 
along' the Hues wo contemplate, but 
there are someAmherst, Smith, 
VaM aiy Cor Instance. Extension 
courses will fall within our scope. Wo 
shall also seek to have returning 
nlunihl renew their Intellectual con
tacts iiH well as the social, meeting 
again their professors. Reading 
courses can he prescribed.
As an example, a graduate of an 
engineering college who had became 
wrapped up In his own special field, 
would keep In touch with the profes
sors who advised him while in college. 
The latter, whose work is to keep In
formed on all brances of the engineer
ing fields, would advise his former 
students of the general trend of en
gineering ldevelopment, and would In
dicate sources to which he could re
vert to keep him broadly in touch 
with' the entire field.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
------and------
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that is distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Menu if 
doslred or merely Cakes, Ice Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on requost,.STORE SERVICE 
CakesPnstrlcsIce Creams IcesBread and Candles Ideally 
made and sold at reasonablb 
prices. Phone ordersno charge for city delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
9ll?CcmciItS r CATERERSSIIADYAND J'EKN AVE.. IJTTSUUKCJI
Several other functions are being 
planned for the new year, and with 
an enrollment of twenty-five members, 
an active year is being anticipated.
( NORTH NEW JERSEY
The first annual Christmas party 
held by the North New Jersey Man 
was attended by a fair number of 
alumni, and the evening was' enjoyed 
by everyone. The party was held at 
the Elks Club In Newark, on Decem
ber 29, consisting of dinner, dancing 
and cards.
The clan has done quite well with 
regards to Dollar Day, but any who 
have not yet contributed are asked 
to send in their dollar to F. K. Zeigler, 295 Union avenue, Belleville, N. 
J., and help boost the Clans total. 
Louis L. Beeken, E10, who lived 
near Trenton died on Novejnber 28th 
at his home.
CALIFORNIA
The Western Clans are coming 
across in fine shape with respect to 
Dollar Day. The Southern California 
Clan made a contribution of $23 to the 
fund at the recent meeting which 
Buddy Overend attended, and the 
Golden Gate Clan made a nine dollar 
contribution. If all our Clans would 
do likewise, we might reach some
where near our goal.
The Ladder
Dwight W. Wait, E. 12, has been 
appointed plant employment super
intendent of tho Bell Telephone Com
pany of Pennsylvania, with headquar
ters in Pittsburgh. Wait; has been ac
tive in Industrial safety campaigns 
for a number of years, being a mem
ber of tlie board of directors of the 
Western Pennsylvania Safety council, 
and' the house committee of the Chnmmer of Commorce. He will be in 
general charge of the telephone com
pany's safety activities In this 'dis
trict. He 1ms boon actively connect
ed with tho Bell organization since 
1912.
.lack L. Jacobson, a graduate of the 
department; of architecture, was 
chosen to represent the Reading Iron 
Company of Reading, Pa., In the New 
York sales district. This . company 
manufactures wrought iron pipe. Mr. 
Jacobson will assist II. S. Garland 
the district sales representative. Jac
obson was formerly associated with 
the Barrett Company of Chicago, and 
Is Widely known among architects.
Due to increased growth, the 
Bridgeport Engineering institute has 
found it necessary to take on new in
structors, among whom is William 
Rhliieheart, a graduate of Carnegie, 
who will teach engineering chemistry. 
Mr. Rhinelieart. is research chemist 
for the American Chain Company.
StudentsAlumni!!! Who Pays ? ? ?
Approximate Cost of Operation at Carnegie Per Day Student Enrolled.
Average Average .
Number cost per tuition per Who 
of day student student pays this
Year students per year for year difference?
ABCD 
1905*1900......................................... 158 $458.00 $ 25.00 $433.00
1906-190 7...................................... 384 338.00 25.00 333.00
1907-1908 ...................................... 632 298.00 25.00 273.00
1908-190 9...................................... 807 317.00 25.00 292.001909-191 0...................................... 989 313.00 45.00 268.00
1910-191 1...................................... 939 257.00 50.00 307.00
19U-1912......................................... 1,043 327.00 50.00 277.00
1912-191 3...................................... 1,121 363.00 50.00 313.00
1913-191 4...................................... 1,221 348.00 50.00 298.00
1914-191 5....................................._ 1,420 329.00 50.00 279.00
1915-1916 ...................................... 1,610 306.00 50.00 256.00
1916-191 7...................................... 1,626 319.00 69.00 250.00
1917-191 8....................................... 1,663 316.00 69.00 347.00
1918-191 9...................................... 1,453 382.00 135.00 247.00
1919-1920 /..................................... 2.742 315.00 135.00 180.00
1920-192 1...................................... 2,509 460.00 135.00 325.00
1921-1922 *.................................... 2,566 457.00 190.00 367.00
1922-192 3...................................... 2,448 478.00 190.00 288.00
1923-192 4...................................... 2,228 498.00 190.00 308.00
1924-192 5....................................... 2,257 492.00 190.00 302.00
1925-192 6...................................... 2,251 530.00 190.00 340.00
1926-192 7...................................... 2,421 520.00 190.00 330.00
NOTEThe above figures do not-include any rental charges for the .useof the wonderful buildings and apparatus facilities made possible by Mr. 
Carnegies benevolence; only administration and general expenses, instruc
tional expenses and the expenses of operating and maintaining plant.
?From 1921 to 1927 the tuition given does not include the athletic>fee, 
nor are athletics Included in tlie operating expenses, since the alumni took 
over athletic control in 1921.
Add the differences (Column E) for the years you were in Carnegie and 
you have the amount your education cost Carnegie Endowment.
What is Your Contribution for Many 
Advantages Carnegie Has Given You ?
We have published in this issue a 
table which shows the approximate 
eotft of operation at Carnegie per day 
student enrolled. The table is selfexplanatory, but a few words may 
not be amiss in connection with it.
In the first place, the table is an 
excellent summary of the growth of 
Carnegie Tech, from an enrollment 
of 158 day students in 1905 to an en
rollment of 2,421 last year. With the 
exception of several years immediate
ly after thte World War the increase 
lias been steady.
The two columns indicating the 
cost per student per year and the av
erage tuition per year are significant, 
as they show that the cost per stu
dent per year is again on the rise, in 
spite of the larger enrollment with 
its consequent savings. The tuition 
column is important only to show 
how ridiculously low the tuition has 
always been in comparison with the 
cost.
The last column is the important 
one. According to the figures, we 
note that never, In the whole history 
of the school, lias the difference been
C. I. T. Printing Dept. Fits 
Men For Executive Positions
Merrill T. Hollinshead, one Of last 
years graduates in the Music De; 
partment, is now playing with the 
University of Iowa chamber orchestra. 
This orchestra has jpst been recently 
organized, and boasts many excellent 
musicians. Mr. Hollinshead plays the 
viola with the orchestra.
Hollinshead will be remembered as 
editor in chief of the Tartan last year, 
and active in music activities on the 
campus.
There are 14,000,000 bobbed heads 
in America today, and 3,500' tons of 
hair have been shorn from the heads 
of American women.
In a recent Interview with Professor 
Gustafson of the Printing Department, 
it was learned that. Carnegie Tech is 
the Only school of higher learning 
in the United States that has provided 
a comprehensive program of training 
for printing executives.
Today, amid the complexity '' and 
rapid changes of the modern Indus
trial world, he said, the ^.executive 
must, be a man of broad vision, abil
ity to think, and resourcefulness. In 
tho specialized occupations character
istic of the largest; present-day indus
trial plants, the development of these 
qualities frequently cannot take 
place. I-Ience, business and industry 
must, in the future, look to the higher 
vocational school for a larger propor
tion of men competent to supervise,1 
manage, and direct. This has long 
been recognized by manufacturers in 
the metal-working, ^e.ctrical, chemi
cal and other trades, and scores of 
department's Have been organized in 
colleges of engineering and In tech
nical schools to provide training for 
executives for those industries.
Testimony to our own Printing de
partments ability to turn out men of 
this calibre is shown by the following 
list of positions held, by graduates or 
former students of the department.
President, vice president, general 
manager, plant superintendent, secre
tary, secretary treasurer, manager, 
advertising manager, production su
perintendent, manager of production, 
supervisor of production, mechanical 
superintendent, manager of publica
tions, assistant superintendent, assist
ant production manager, layout man, 
typographer and designer, editor,, 
sales representative, foreman, head 
bookkeeper, estimator, copywriter, 
demonstrator, copy fitter, and other 
printing positions. Many others have 
gone into the teaching of printing in 
high schools, trade schools, and teach
ers colleges.
less than $200 with but one excep
tion. In other words, you cost the 
school at least two hundred dollars 
or more a ear, above what you paid 
in tuition. This means that you cost 
the school over one thousand dollars 
in four years for which it received no 
return,- except the knowledge that it 
had fitted you out for your life work.
What are you going to do about it? 
As you know, no company can oper
ate long at a constant loss, and yet 
that is what Carnegie Tech has been 
doing since '1905. Are you going to 
made an attempt to return at least a 
part of that thousand or more dol
lars which you owe your Alma Mater?
The alumni association and the 
school have arranged several con
venient methods for you to do your 
bit. Our Dollar Day campaign was 
One of these. We must admit that the 
campaign fell far short of our hopes, 
which had been that we -would collect 
at; least $2,000 this last year, but the 
response camel/only the tune of about 
$600. And at least a fifth of this came 
from others aside from alumni. In 
other words, about 500 out of a poten
tial 10,000 or15,000 alumni came 
across with a dollar bill.
Then Ave suggested that ex-service 
men sign over their adjusted service 
certificates to* the cliool. 'So far we 
have on record three such certificates, 
which help to boost the Endowment 
fund not a little, but we also know 
that there \ are many more ex-service 
men who could do likewise but have 
just negelected to give it any thought.
We still have the loyalty bond 
campaign on also. This forms a sub
stantial part of the total endowment 
raised so far, and new subscriptions 
are coming in from time to time.
And now we put it up to you. . Just 
why have these campaigns, pleas, and 
other devices fallen so far short of 
their goal. Havent we been giving 
enough information and publicity? 
We feel we have, with the Alumnus 
and Tartan, as well as other litera
ture sent out from time to time. Our 
only solution is that the alumni 
haven't been giving any thought to 
tlie matter. S'ome of the clans have 
been bringing the matter up at their 
meetings, and the results have been 
gratifying in these' instances. Biit 
why wait until you go to a clan meet
ing? If you meet a fellow alumnus, 
talk to him about it, get his views on 
the matter, and-stir up some interest 
in Carnegie.
After all, we are more fortunate than 
most schools. For all we raise, we 
receive double the amount from the 
Carnegie Corporation, while other 
schools must raise their endowments 
alone. Recently Bethany College at 
Bethany, West Virginia, a small 
school, opened a campaign for one 
million dollars. Other schools not as 
large as Carnegie Tech are raising 
amounts which would put us in the 
background. And unless we go and 
do likewise, we will find ourselves a 
back number among the colleges of 
the country, and Carnegie Techs 
name will no longer stand out as one 
of the leading institutions of> its kind 
in the country.
Which shall it be? Will Carnegie 
Tech be one of the foremost educa
tion 1 institutions in the future, or
CLAN DIRECTORY
NOTE: The Clan Directory given below is
Incomplete, and in some cases, possibly incorrect. It haB been compiled, however, from the 
latest available data. Any corrections or ad
ditions should be sent in immediately to the 
Alumni Office.BALTIMORE 
President, G. S. Diehl, Bellona Avenue. 
Secretary and Trejisurer, P. H. Dickey, 1318 
Continental Building.
BOSTON
Secretary, John F. Maxwell, 76 West Street, 
Braintree, Mass.
BUFFALO
President, Robert Porter, 130 Hoyt Street. 
Secretary and Treasurer, Herbert L. Moershfelder, 34 Ketchum Place.
CANTON
President, Frank J. Taylor, 518 Alta Place, 
N. W., Canton, Ohio.
Vice President, Henry L. Berger, 915 Green 
Street, Massillon,. .Ohio.
Secretary, Wilmer H. Tucker, 1230^ Cleve
land Avenue, N. W.
Treasurer, George A. Martin, 315 Ninth 
Street, N. E.
CHICAGO
.Chairman, C. J. Copley, 536 Wrigley Building. 
Finance Committee, Huntley Wallace, Chair
man ; Vic Stromquist, John Harkness. 
Program Committee, John Nation, Chairman;
Harvey Hiller, Mrs. H. W. Davis. 
Membership Committee, C. B. Schmidt, Chair
man; Mrs. John Harkness, Thad Wheeler. 
Publicity, F. W. Cook.All communications should be addressed to 
C. J. Copley.
CINCINNATI 
President, G. C. Smith, Chemical Department, 
University of Cincinnati. ^
CLEVELAND 
President, A. C. May, Peerless Automatic 
Machine Company.Vice President, R. H. Humbert', 1849 East 
101st Street.Secretary, E. P. Batcham, 1080 Union Trust 
Building.
Treasurer, L. C. Lustenberger, 1849 East 101st 
Street.
CLEVELAND WOMENS CLAN 
President, Katherine Kert, ' 1^38 East 116th 
Street.Vice President, Alice Nelson Koppes, 1979 
East 82nd Street.Secretary and Treasurer, Catherine Allan, 622 
East 124th Street.
COLUfMBUS, OHIO 
President, N. J. Engle, 266 South High St. Vice  President, Florence H. Lutz, 91 South 
Market Street, Logan, Ohio.
Secretary and Treasurer, J. R. Paloma, Department of Romance Languages, Ohio 
State University.
CONNECTICUT 
President, C. Arthur Nordstrom, 17 Sterling 
Street', Hartford. ,Vice President, William Gooby, 10 Madison 
Street, New Britain.
Secretary and Treasurer, Samuel Flaxman, 
92 Vice Street, Hartford;
DAYTON, OHIO 
President, F. W. Heckert, 341 Kenilworth 
Avenue.
DETROITPresident, W. Ray Williams, care Westing-1 
house Electric & Manufacturing Company, 
1535 Sixth Street.
Secretary and Treasurer, C. L. Boyle, 3909 
Balfour Road.ERiE
President, Harrison Reed, 122 West 21st Street. 
Vico President', E. P. Wagner, care Highway 
Tavern.Secretary and Treasurer, CharleB A. Carney, 
429 Liberty Street.
GOLDEN GATE 
President, G. M. Whisler, 1778 Rose Street, 
feerkeiey.Secretary and Treasurer, -Mrs. R. L. Wharton, 
Box 147, Route 1, Richmond, Calif.
HARRISBURG 
President, John G. Todd, 20I/& North Queen 
Street, Lancaster.
Vice President, Henry Y. Shaub, 20% North 
Queen Street, Lancaster.Secretary, Frank Highberger, care State De
partment of Public Instruction, Harrisburg.
HUNTINGTON, W. VA.
Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second Street, 
East.JOHNSTOWN Secretary, John W. Fritz, 215 John Street.
KOPPERS, PITTSBURGH 
President, D. J. McFarlin, care Koppers Con
struction Company, Union TruBt Building. 
Vice President, H. I-I. Hook.
Secretary, W. H. Neely.
Treasurer, A. G. Wagner, together with J. G. 
Rice, C. B. Collins, H. E. Warren, composing 
a Board of Governors.
MONONGAHELA VALLEY 
President, Conrad A. Stone, Box 391) Char
leroi, Pa.Vice President, MrB. Alice Nixon Conn, care 
Kind Frederick Apartment, Fourth and Dock 
Streets, Steubenville, Ohio.
Secretary and Treasurer, A. B. Lowstutter, 
Lock No.- 4. Pa.
MILWAUKEE 
President, E. G. Peterson, enre The CutlerHammer Manufacturing Company.
Secretary, John L. Ferguson, 2901 Wells St.
NEW YORK 
Secretary and Treasurer, Mryon Kitaif, 4609 
Avenue M, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Publicity Manager, F. I. Smith, care H. L. 
Doherty Company, 60 Wall Street.
NORFOLK
President, T. D. Fitzgibbon, 811 Holt Street.
NORTHERN NEW JERSEY 
President, C. W. Gibbs, care IngerBoll-Rand 
Company, 11 Broadway, New York City. 
Vice President, E. W. Van Der Wollc, 73 Grove 
Street, Montclair, N. J.Treasurer, F. K. Zeigler, 295 Union Avenue, 
Belleville, N\ J.
Secretary, J. F. Smaney, 211 LoouBt Street, 
Roselle Park, N. J.
PHILADELPHIA 
President, M. D. Scott, 545. Kathmere Road, 
Brook'ine, Upper Darby, Pa.
Secretary and Treasurer, T. S. Repplier, care 
Edwards, Ewing & Jones, North American 
Building, Philadelphia.
Chairman Entertainment and Membership 
Committee, L. E. Exline, 1520 Real Estate 
Trust Building.
PITTSBURGH 
President, G. Albert Wagner, care The Koppers Company.
Vice President, L. H. Lee, 206 Stanwix street. 
Socretary-Treasurer, Buddy Overend, Carnegie 
Tech.
SCHENECTADY 
President ,J. M. Sampson, 45 Bedford Street. 
Vice President, J. L. Knight, care General 
Electric Company.Secretary and Treasurer, Raymond Gill, 206 
Union Street.
ST. LOUIS
Acting Secretary, M. A. Zellar, on re of Ham
ilton Company, Inc., 2127 Pine Street.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
President, John F. Meredith, 6907 West Fifth 
Street, Los Angeles.
.will she gradually but surely drop 
into oblivion among the higher schools 
of learning? Without funds the 
school cannot advance, new buildings, 
i.nparatus, and the like are impossible. 
We leave it to you, alumni, Carnegie 
Techs fate lies in your hands.
H. X. Dieter, E23,
Sent To Europe By 
Frigidaire Company
Alumnus is Placed in Charge 
of All European 
Advertising -
The record of an alumnus recently 
came to our notice which we have 
thought worthy of special comment. 
We refer to the appointment of Harry 
F. Dieter, E. 23, as European adver
tising manager for the Frigidaire cor
poration.
Mr. Dieter-s record both in school 
and after leaving school is .one which 
many may envy. He entered Carne
gie Tech in 1919 to study electrical 
engineering. In addition to making; 
 an excellent record in his studies, he 
took active part in activities. He be
longed to what is now Sigma Phi Ep
silon,, of which he was president, and 
was for a time president of the interfraternity council. He was active on 
publications, being news editor oftlie 
Tartan, and was a member of Pi 
Delta Epsilon, the" honorary journal
istic fraternity. His fraternity held 
a farewell party for . him on Sunday 
night.
Mr. Dieter sails 'S'aturday aboard 
the Majestic for Paris, where his 
headquarters will be located. Selec
tion of Dieter for this position is a 
distinct tribute to his ability as an 
advertising executive. He lias been 
with the Frigidaire corporation, in 
Dayton, Ohio, a year and a half as 
part of the advertising department. 
During that time he has been in 
charge of the Frigidaire Sales Bui 
lettin, and also handled direct mail 
copy.
Before joining the Frigidaire staff, 
Dieter had been in the advertising de
partment of the Westinghouse Elec
tric and Manufacturing company at 
East Pittsburgh, and while working 
there was placed in charge of the 
micarta products advertising.
Although his headquarters will be 
in Paris, Mr. Dieter will have contact 
with the Frigidaire representatives in 
other European cities, including Lon
don, Edinburgh, Berlin, Budapest, 
Milan, Glasgow, and others. Mr. Die
ters appointment came after ,a twomonths trip abroad by E..G. Biechler, 
president a-qd general manager of the 
company.
Mr. Dieter is to be complimented 
upon his abilities, his record for four 
and a half years of business life being 
an enviable one.
Vice President, Robert Finkelhor, 200 North Oakhurst Drive, Beverly Hills.
Secretary, Betty Finkelhor, 200 North Onlchurst Drive, Beverly Hi!ls.
Executive Committee, James H. Knapp, 244 
North Wetherly Drive, Beverly Hills.
G. R. Brandin, 902 Transportation Building, 
L-. Angeles.
TULSAPresident, II. G. Texter, care Standard Seam
less Tube Company, 710 Mid Continent Building.
Vice President, Arthur J. Kerr, 1617 South Quaker Avenue.
Secretary and Treasurer, II. W. Penterman, 902 Mayo' Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
President, J. R. Arnold, 24 Second Street, N. W.
Vice President, Harriet Staples, 3611 S Street, N. W.
Secretary and Treasurer, A. M. Pringle, 627 
Lexington Place. N. E.
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO
President, R. A. Bookmeyer, 15-15 Elm Street.
Vice President', Fred C. Beede, 1324 Hillman Street.
Secretary and Treasurer] George K. O'Connor, 
52 New York Avenue.
East Lansing,Mich.  Michigan 
State College is to offer a European 
travel course for the first time next 
summer, under the direction of the 
home economics department, for 
which six credits of college work will 
be given. The sudents will be per
sonally conducted through England, 
Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Italy 
and France. Any co-ed who can meet 
the necessary requirements is eligible 
to go.
The purpose is to gain intimate 
views of home life in various Eu
ropean countries, an opportunity for 
travelers which heretofore has been 
possible only to a few. The plans in
clude visiting a modern home in each 
country, and there hearing a talk on 
home conditions and problems of that 
particular country, by an Englishspeaking woman.. Museums, palaces, 
art galleries will be seen in the light 
of what they offer to our knowledge" 
of the development of home life. The 
high spot of the trip will come at 
Berne, Switzerland, where there will 
be a great exhibition of womens 
work. The party sails on theCunard 
liner S. S. Berengaria.
Professor Mylrea has been invited to 
present a paper at the annual conven
tion of the 'American Concrete Institue to be held in Philadelphia in Feb
ruary.
(JIM mmHigher Mathematics.By KKANK REll.I.Y
c
XINI o-1IV 
5CARtIfv" JOME
mmMMM

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Dr. Thomas S. Baker Discusses Many 
Phases of The American Mind
In contrast to the driving energy 
that it directs toward the pursuit of 
material success, America is actually 
even more conventional than is Eu
rope in such issues as politics, relig
ion and morals, Dr. Thomas S. Baker, 
president of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, observed recently in dis
cussing The American Mind.
America, he said, is confused. It 
is trying to find outlets for its bound
less energy and vigor. This is shown 
in its swift pursuit of results that can 
be measured in terms of dollars, 
quantities, tangible things and its 
thirst for distraction from its unspir
itual occupations. It shows a bound
less yearning and earnestness in 
whatever it does, whether in its prac
tical every-day accomplishments or in 
its search for pleasure. It feels a 
moral exaltatio^in exhausting itself/ 
in its work and it claims the right to 
wear itself out in its amusements as 
a reward for its fatiguing labors. 
Work is its god.
American Mind Independent.
In affairs of a practical nature, the 
American mind is independent, intre
pid, ingenious and highly imaginative, 
lie believes. In dealing with ques
tions that are not practical, he add
ed, it is bound by conventions. , The 
American will plan a skyscraper, or 
the development of an industrial 
plant, or a financial coup with greaj; 
originality and daring, but concerning 
the fundamental issues of politics, re
ligion, moralsanything of a philo
sophical nature, lie is apt to be ortho
dox to the point of docility, and we 
aTe therefore a nation of conserva
tives. The youngest of the great na
tions is a traditionalist par excel
lence.
Unconventionalism is reproved most 
sharply in a democracy, because when 
large masses of people have the op
portunity of asserting themselves they 
will be found to be almost invariably 
on the side of wliat is customary, and 
opposed to. innovations, President 
Baker explained. This characteriza
tion, he went on, hardly rhymes 
with the popular conception of the 
American. He is supposed to be 
pushing, restless^ progressive, ven
turesome. All these adjectives may 
be applied to him truthfully. It is 
only in the realm of ideas that he 
seems to lose liis courage and become 
docile, hesitant. Why? Primarily be 
cause the American is a man of ac
tion. He is less concerned with med
itation than accomplishment. The
impulse to do things, rather than to 
think about themthe most univer
sal characteristic of the American 
people is an inheritance from . lie pe
riod of storm and stress of the found
ing of the nation.
Little to Cause Alarm.
Dr. Baker, however, finds little 
cause for alarm in the self-consciousness of America regarding its alleged 
lack of culture. Those who ro^-uuch 
America for her materialism may say 
justly, he said, that she has pro
duced few thinkers or artists to be 
compared with the great names of 
Europe but I doubt whether a larger 
percentage of the sum total of human 
energy in our country is devoted to ac
quiring worldly goods than in other 
countries. The opportunities or the 
acquiring may be more favorable villi 
us but the desire is 110 keener. Cer
tainly no land gives of its riches more 
liberally to religion, to educatior., to 
alleviate human suffering, ever, to art. 
Along with the trait of extravagance 
there is also a national trait of gen
erosity. The American may not be 
liberal in small things, he may be os
tentatious in his gifts, but as a rule 
he feels a certain responsibility to 
his neighbor, a sense of. dependence 
upon .those who surround him. It is a 
phase of the spirit of solidarity which 
expressed itself in his love of organi
zation and the eagerness with which 
he allies himself wtli all sorts of asso
ciations.
America has a conscience and its 
chief distate is to succeed, to pro
duce. This is a form of idealism 
which would seem to have very little, 
to do with culture. True, but the fun
damental essential for human ad
vancement is Vitality and where can 
we nd such abounding energy, and 
where there is robust strength, there 
is hope. Where world-weariness,
pessimism, passivity, prevail, there 
must be despair. It is better to fight 
for a doubtful cause than to succumb 
to, indifference. \
One might hazard the prophecy 
that our greatest Sset lies in our be
lief that achievement is worth while, 
America may well be the cradle of a 
new culture. Our joy of living con
sists largely in the spending of ones 
strength and this super-abundant hap
piness in accomplishment can be em
ployed on objectives that are higher 
than the creation of things. We may 
hope for something" far more vigorous 
in the intellectual field than has 
shown itself up to the present.
NIGHT STUDENT COUNCIL 
DANCE SATURDAY JAN. 14
On the evening of January four
teenth, the Night Student Council 
, will hold their post holiday dance in 
the Union. Faced with the prospect 
of having over three hundred couples 
present, all eager for their share of 
the evenings revelry, the social com
mittee, of which Mr. E. E. McDonald 
is chairman, has made admirable 
strides towards perfecting the plans 
for this gala occasion. Refreshments 
will have no small share in making 
the dance successful. Accordingly, 
from nine to twelve, the guests will 
1 enjoy themselves to the tune of Al. 
Kirthners own orchestra. The nomi
nal sum of one dollar per couple will 
be assessed.
The chaperones will be: Mr. and 
Mrs. J. C. Moreliead, Mr. and Mrs. 
k W. E. Raedio, Mr. and Mrs. R. S. 
Simboli, and Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Clayter.
Music Notes
OTTO KAHN GRANTS FUND 
FOR DRAMA DEPT. PRIZES
CARBORUNDUM PICTURE TO
BE SHOWN AGAIN TONIGHT
Professor Trimmer of the Automo
bile Maintenance and Repair courses 
of the. College of Industries has suc
ceeded in inducing the Carborundum 
Company to have a repeat showing of 
the film The Jewels of Industry. 
The picture is one of the most inter
esting films of the manufacturing in
dustry. It shows the making of 
Aloxite and Carborundum as well as 
their many applications in the 
abrasive industry.
The film will be shown in Room 104 
Industries at 8:00 p. m. tonight.
On January 30, Mr. C. M. Burgess, 
President of the Burgess-Norton Man
ufacturing Company of Geneva, Illi
nois, will give a talk on th'e produc
tion, installation and maintenance of 
Pins and Pistons. Mr. Burgess, has 
spent a great many years in experi
ment work along these lines and it 
is fortunate that he has offered to 
give this talk at Carnegie.
Mr. Burgess has also arranged for 
Mr. Tom Duggan, Merchandising Di
rector of the National Standard Parts 
Association to be with him and to 
give ..a talk on the Modern Repair 
Shop.
Cambridge, Mass.Alpha Sigma Phi 
01 Harvard is the Touch Football 
Champion of the East, having defeated 
Psi Upsilon of Brown, champions of 
the Rhode Island schools fraternities. 
It was the first game of intercollegiate 
touch Nfootball contest ever waged. 
Sounds like girls rules for the pigskin 
sport; what is it anyway?
Two Awards For Acting, One For 
Playwriting To Be Given 
At Commencement.
An annual grant of $1,000.00 to be 
used for prizes for students of the De
partment of Drama of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology has been 
established by Otto H. Kahn, New 
York capitalist, patron of arts, and 
member of the Trustee Committee on 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
President Thomas S. Baker has an
nounced. The fund will be available 
immediately and first awards of the 
prizes will be made at the commence* 
inent in June.
The Kahn award, the announcement 
points out, is the result of the growing 
interest the New York banker has 
shown in tlip work of the Department 
of Drama during, the past few year*.
The fund will be divided each year 
into three prizes as follows: A first
prize of $500.00 to be known as the 
Otto H. Kahn Prizes of the First 
Class and Iwo prizes of 1250.00 
to be known as the Otto 
H. Kahn Prizes of the Second 
Class. The prizes will be awarded by 
the resident 011 ommencement Day to 
graduates of the Drama. Department, 
011 the recommendation of a commit
tee composed of the members of the 
Drama faculty of professorial rank 
with the chairman of the college. It 
is understood that two of the prizes 
will usually be given for acting and 
the third for playwriting. At the dis
cretion of the committee, however, it 
is announced, one of the prizes may 
be given for production, either direc
tion or stage design.
Intra-College Club Will 
Hold Party On January 21
Washington, D. C.The commander 
of the American Legion must be look
ing for something to do. 1-Ie wanted 
to take a'poll of the Legions attitude 
toward prohibition. He should try ata Legion convention.
The second regular meeting of the 
Intercollegiate Cosmopolitan Club this 
year will take the form of a card and 
game party which will be held January 
21 in the M. M. C. C. Rec I-Iall. There 
will be Bridge and Five Hundred" 
and, for those who do not play cards, 
a number of new and interesting 
games. A prize is being offered for 
the high person at each table. The 
feature of the evening will be a 
White Elephant", the always popular 
grab-ba in novel guise. Separate 
tickets will be issued for this. Miss 
Jean Miller of the University of Pitts
burgh Is chairman of the committee 
in charge of the party and is working 
hard to make it one of the most suc
cessful affairs of this nature ever un
dertaken by the club. Tickets are 
$.50 and may be obtained from Miss 
Miller or any member of the com
mittee. All those who like cards or 
enjoy lively games are invited to 
spend the evening of January 21 
with the Cosmopolitan Club.
Cambridge, Mass.If you ever stud
ied economics you heard about the 
class of people who buy present goods 
with future income. Harvard is like 
that. Its good fun to be able to say 
in 1927, Watch Harvard clean up 
Michigan in 1929. But there will be 
a sad day ^coming. The cost will be 
awful if Harvard doesnt have a better 
football teatii than she had this year.
James Pop Mace Invited 
To Speak At Y Banquet
Members of the Circle Y, an organi
zation composed of Hi-Y alumni en
rolled at Carnegie, will be extended 
the opportunity of hearing one of 
Pittsburghs Y. M. C. A. luminaries, 
Pop MaCe, at their dinner of January 
17th.
Mace is the Boys Work Secretary of 
Allegheny County, and as the writer 
well knows, a speaker of exceptionally 
entertaining qualitias. Hid daily 
radio tables from the downtown Y are 
as fine a source of religious education 
as can bo found In the city of Pitts
burgh.
It is expected that approximately 
100 members will gather at the
Carnegie Institute Cafeteria 011 Tues
day evening at 6:00. The tickets are 
to be 011 sale at the Y office com
mencing Monday, the 9tli at .the
price of 60c per plate.
This is a wonderful opportunity for 
Circle Y mdmbers to hear a real
straight-forward message from an
earnest Y worker.
Stanford University, Cal.Announce
ment was made here last week of gifts 
totaling over one million dollars to be 
used in fostering research work in 
science at Stanford University; $750,- 
000 comes fron\ the General Education 
Board.
Tobacco is a dirty weed, I like it.
It satisfies no normai need, 1 like it. 
It makes you thin, it make you lean, 
It takes the hair right off your bean; 
Its the worst darn stuff Ive ever seen, 
I like it."
Exchange.
U. S. A.Something has got to be 
done to restore a belief in Santa Chius 
to the youngsters of this nation who 
have been without faith since Thurs
day evening last. For those grown
ups who were going through a Latin 
dictionary instead of listening in .011 
the radio, I shall recount the disaster.
The radio announcer from SKY, it 
seems, had hooked up with the North 
Pole, and we were to be treated tio an 
address from Santa' while at work. 
Extensive preparations were made, 
mt/ch high flown language used in de
scribing the wonders of Santas laii;, 
and then came the breatniess moment 
when Old Niclc was to speak. Hisvoice came, the voice of a big league 
umpire yelling the play, "Say, folks, 
these presents Ive made is certainly 
swell.
To Hold Greek Letter 
Formal At Schenley
Fraternities to Give Complete 
Financial Reports on 
Deferred Rushing
Lawrence, Kan.At least half the 
students at the University of Kansas 
are self-supporting, either in part or 
ovHrolv. P>eov.fl1nr to a survey taken.
The Interfraternity Council has 
definitely decided upon the date aud 
place for their formal. It will be held 
in Schenley Hotel, March 16. The 
committee lias not decided upon the 
orchestra but they have in view some 
of tho loading orchestras in the, state. 
Tho plan for assessing the fraterni
ties has not definitely been decided 
on. This will be decided 011 in the 
near future.
The attendance has been very low. 
It is urged by the council that all men 
attend for in the next few meetings 
there are very important subjects to 
pass 011. The fines assessed^on frater
nities for absentees fr<6m meetings 
have not been paid. The lines must 
be paid or, there will be no formal. 
That is' according to the ruling given 
out by the faculty, 110 dance, will be 
held unless'all fines and fees, are paid 
up by all the fraternities concerned. 
The Interfraternity Council keys will 
not be given out until .each fraternity 
pays the four dollar fee.
The subject of deferred rushing Vvas 
brought up at this meeting. Before 
furtliei1 action can be taken, each fra
ternity will make a chart of compari
son between the open and deferred 
rushing systems. This chart will in
clude financial reports of the costs of 
deferred rushing and also the com
plete financial reports before and after 
rushing season. In order to have a 
complete camparison financial reports 
of open season will be gotten also.
Definite action will be taken by the 
Interfraternity Council in their meet
ing next Saturday, January 14. This 
j is a very important meeting and all 
j members are urged ^o attend.
I nA-nnMnc OMR ADVERTISERS
By Sara E. Wonders.
January 12A two-piano recital will 
be given by the students of Mr. Oettings ensemble class, in the recital 
room of the Pittsburgh Musical Institue, on Thursday evening, January 12, 
at 8:30. The participants in the pro
gram will be Maurice Comminos, Ger
trude McCabe, Margaret DeLaney, 
Stanton Williams, Sarah L. Hershey, 
Margaret Rae, Ethel Decker, Beatrix 
Stevens, Edna Keilly, Mollie Nauhaus, 
Marie Catanzaro, Agnes .Guckelberg, 
Mabel Link, Elsie Thurn, Irene Baeslaclc, Leah Davis, Margaret Link, Kath
ryn Brose, Margaret Turner, Henrietta 
Bricker and Agnes Slionka. No cards 
of admission are necessary and the 
public is invited.* * *
Josef and Rosa Llievinne, who have 
just'-returned from an extensive. Euro
pean tour, during which time they 
played in Paris, Vienna, Amsterdam, 
and London, will appear in a two-piano 
recital Thursday, January 12; in the 
Morris Kaufmann Memorial Audi
torium of the Young Mens and Worn-, 
ens Hebrew Association.# # *
January 15Max Shapiro, Pitts
burgh violinist and teacher, will direct 
the string quartet at the concert of the 
Chamber Music Society of the Young 
Mens and Womens Hebrew Associa
tion, Sunday, January 15. Besides Mr. 
Shapiro in the quartet are Herbert L. 
Lomask, Milton Lomask and George 
Curry.* * *
January 17Paul Rochanski, the
eminent Polis violinist, will be heard 
here in the fifth May Beegle concert 
at Syria Mosque Tuesday evening, 
January 17. Mr. Kochanskis program 
will include an Eighteenth Century 
group, arranged by Kreisler, the com
posers including Couperin, Boccherini, 
Rameau and Pugnani. Two concertos 
will be given, the Bach Concerto in A 
minor, and Wieniawski Concerto in D 
minor. Among the modern numbers 
will be Pavane by Ravel-Kochanslci. # # *
January 20Louis Graveure, bari
tone will appear at Carnegie Music 
Hail in a recital on January 20. The 
singers local appearance will be un
der the management of James A. Bortz.
London EnglandOxford and Cam
bridge universities are said to be plan
ning a new form of intercollegiate 
competition. The two universities are 
j taking plans to have annual flying conj tests take place between, them. Both 
1 schools have air squadrons.
Columbus, OhioThe department of 
home economics at Ohio Stale Univer
sity is planning to offer a course to 
men of the university in the near 
future.
Minneapolis, Minn.  The photog
rapher for the university annual here 
will not take pictures after football 
game week-ends, because the students 
invariably haye dark rings under their 
eyes.
R. E. DEDWORTH, 
Salesman,
Yale. .17
J. P. MAXWELL, 
[lead Design Enei"** 
Missouri, 19
M. J. RUBEL, 
Ass'i Design Engineer, 
lnutitu tc ofTechnology, 
Vicuna, Austria, 21,L
YOUNGER COLLEGE MEN
ON RECENT WESTINGHOUSE JOBS
II. II. RUC.G. 
Design litigi 11 f.-r. 
South IDakotn 
School of Minea, 16
i .
R. IJu CAMP. 
Montami. *17
J. E. WALTER, 
Contract Administration, 
Curncicle Tech, Ex25
The Holland 'Tunnel
Where do young college men get in a large 
industrial organization? Have they 
opportunity to exercise creative talent?
Is individual work recognized?
 t
T
HE HOLLAND TUNNEL is one 
of engineerings greatest tri
umphs, because
..it is twice the size of any tun
nel ever bored beneath the bed of 
the Hudson River.
--it is over a mile and a half long. 
 it is designed for automobiles 
to use. Because 
they generate poi
sonous carbon 
monoxide gas,
motor cars create an entirely new 
need for tunnel ventilation. Yet 
even when the Holland Tunnel 
is filled to capacity and 2000 mo
tor cars are passing through it in 
each direction, the air is fresh 
and pure.
This is a type of engineering 
undertaking with which young 
men in an organization of the 
size of Westinghouse frequently 
are brought into intimate contact. 
Opportunities to work on the
Westinghouse
stupendous, the never-before-un
dertaken, are not rare here. Hence 
young men of capacity, of enter
prise, of genius, find much to 
challenge their imaginations and 
abilities.
A battery of 56 fans driven by 
Westinghouse motors pump fresh 
air into, and foul air out of, the 
Holland Tunnel. Twenty-eight 
more Westinghouse-motored fans are 
a reserve. Westinghouse planned 
the lighting system 
in the tunnel; also 
the system of remote 
control.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1928
Prof. Trinks Suggests Methods for 
Fuel Conservation by New Machinery
McClintock Croup In 
Photograph Exhibit
Collections by Man Famous 
in Recording Indian Lore 
Shown Until Jan. 15
The famous McClintock collection 
of colored photograph of Indians has 
been placed on exhibition at the CarnegJe Museum. The exhibition will 
continue through January 15th.
The photographs, about 377 In all, 
illustrate the narrative of the book, I 
Old Indian Trails (by Walter S. 
McClintock. The collection is the 
finest of Its Hind in existence. The 
photographs WeVe all taken by Mr. 
McClintock.
Mr. McClintock, who has recently 
been appointed Research Fellow in 
Ethnology at the Southwest Museum 
of Los Angeles,is a Pittsburgher. Ills 
father, the late Oliver McClintock, was 
well-known for his interest in the 
civic and religioua affairs of this com
munity, and his brother is'Norman 
McClintock, Photo-Naturalist at the 
University of Pittsburgh.
In the Spring oi 139(3 Mr. McClin
tock went as a United States Govern
ment photographer on a commission 
to the Blackfoot tribe. After the work i 
of the commission was finished 
McClintock kept returning through j 
many years to his Indian friends tak-1 
ing his cameras and notebooks wilh j 
him. He kept records of everything | 
he saw and heardtheir customs, 
legends, and ceremonies, their huntj 
ing trips and the flora and wild life 
of their country.
Mr. McClintock was adopted b^ 
Chief Mad Wolf of the Blackfoot 
tribe and given the name of White 
Weasel. His position as the adopted 
son of. the chief enabled him to ac
quire valuable records of ethnological 
interest. He was given instruction 
by the medicine .men and permitted to | 
make photopraplis of the most myster
ious and sacred rites of'Indian cere
monies.
Mr. McClintock was graduated from 
Yale in 1891 and was given an lionSecond Semester Chapels 
Scheduled For Tuesdays
A prominent Pittsburgh minister 
will deliver the address at the next 
chapel service, which is to be held 
In the Little Theater of the College 
of Fine Arts, on next Tuesday, Janu
ary 12, at twelve-flfty oclock.
The soloist of the program will be 
Alberta Irvine, soprano, of the Music 
Department. Marlon Soady will be 
the organist.
Chapel services during the second 
semester will be scheduled tor Tues
days, rather than Thursdays, the 
present chapel day, so that all stu
dents may attend the services with
out interference to the regular onehour lunch period. It is to be ex
pected that change of date in the 
schedule will produce a great effect 
In the Carnegie Chapel attendance.
II "is understood, however, that inter
changes of dates can be made for 
special occasions, when the circum
stances permit, and the committee j 
approves. If any of the services 
scheduled are not held, the period be-1 
tween 12:30 and 1:30 on that Tues
day becomes a free one.
The schedule for second semester 
chapel services is as follows:
February 
14thChapel 
28 thChapel 
March 
13thChapel 
27thChapel 
April 
24thChapel 
May 
8thOpen 
June
No. chapel servicesCommencement 
exercises.
orary degree of Master of Arts in 
1911 by his Alma Mater for his re
searches in Indian lore. McClintock 
Peal/ In Glacier National Park was 
named in his honor by the Federal 
Government. He is the author of 
The Old North Trail and Old In
dian Trails.
The exhibition is installed in Gal
lery 11 on the third boor of the In-' 
i stitute.
It is cheaper to waste fuel than to 
save it. That is the unfortunate con
dition which is preventing the saving 
of fuel and Its conservation for future 
generations, Prof. Willibald Trinks, of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
declared recently in speaking of the 
high cost of fuel saving.
To offest the tremendous waste of 
energy Proessor Trinks -advocates a 
government tax on fuel to provide an 
income and a surplus out of which the 
government could pay a large part of 
the cost of fuel-savihg equipment. 
Furthermore, he believes, the plan 
would furnish a strong inducement to 
save fuel by careful operation, and in
struments as well as fuel engineers 
would become indispensable.
"That the saving of fuel and its con
servation for future generations are 
desirable, is almost an axiom, he 
points out, "but under the present eco
nomic order it is unfortunately cheaper 
to waste fuel than to save it, at least 
in many localities and under many 
circumstances.
"What is the cost of fuel saving? If 
we possess fuel-wasting equipment and 
consider replacing It by other equip
ment which saves fuel, thestandard 
and method of calculation is the fol
lowing:
"We ascertain the cost of the new 
equipment, including the cost of in| 
stallatlon and removal of the old equip| 
ment minus the cost of salvage of old I 
equipment, and compute interest, de| 
preciation, amortization, and cost due j 
to loss of use during the time of ! 
changing over. We add to this the 
cost of possible increases in labor, 
supervision and maintenance, and com
pare the sum total with the fuel sav.ing, at present market prices of fuel. 
If the saving sufficiently over-balances 
the cost items to make the change at
tractive, then, and then only, do we go 
ahead and install the fuel saving equip
ment It always comes' right down to 
dollars and cents, or immediate per
sonal gain.- Saving for future genera
tions is never even considered. Of 
examples for this state of affairs, he 
said, there are many. Twenty years 
ago, he explained, the steel works 
were installing gas engines, because it 
was possible by their use to convert 
three times as much of the heat of the. 
gas into mechanical work as could be 
done through the use of steam en
gines. However, the high cost of 
maintenance, labor and replacements 
of the gas engine equipment because 
so great, he said, that the steel works 
have gone back to steam machinery 
installations, because it cost toV much 
to save fuel with gas engines.
By raising the steam pressure in 
locomotives to 800 or 900 pounds per 
square inch, he went on; "we can 
save at least 30 per cent of the fuel; 
but the introduction of radical changes 
in railroad work is rraughl with dan
ger. Motive power has been pretty 
well standardized, and changes mean 
more spare parts, education of operaEXPERI M ENTS SHOW
STUDENTS AT 50 LEARN
AS EASILY AT 25
Adults learn as rapidly as children 
and students of 50 years are about as 
ready intellectually as those of 25, 
according to the results of experi
ments lit Columbia University, de
scribed by James C. Egbert, Director | 
of University Extension, in his an
nual report to Dr. Nicholas Murray 
Butler, President of, Columbia, who 
made the report public yesterday. The 
extension and home study students of 
Columbia include a number of octo
genarians.
A recent report by Prof. Edward 
L. Thorndike, of Teachers' College 
Columbia, says the flsport, "gives 
the results of experiments conducted 
for acquiring knowledge.
"Lack of opportunity and of the de
sire to learn explain the generally ac
cepted theory that adults can learn 
only with great difficulty. By increas
ing the opportunity we shall increase 
the desire, and evidence is multiply
ing that University .Extension is sup
plying the opportunity.
"Now as to results. Last year one 
student was S3 years of age, one of SO, 
one of 77 and one of 75. Sixteen were 
above 70 years of age, eighty-seven 
were between GO and 70; 345 between 
50 and 60, 878 between 40 and 50, 
1,S22 between 30 and 40, 2,015 between 
20 and 30 and only 192 under 20 years. 
Students to the number of S03 declined 
to confess their ages. Of the total 
registration 3,797 were men and 2,461 
women, approximately three men to 
two women. Every State is repre
sented except Nevada. Foreign coun
tries furnish 112 students who repre
sent every continent.
"About half of those registered have 
attended college and about one-fifth 
high school. The college graduates 
number 1,127. The largest number 
hold clerical positions, the next are 
engaged in business and the third larg
est. group is from industrial positions. 
Five hundred are housewives, two 
hundred physicians, four hundred 
teachers and there are one hundred 
la\vyers. One hundred are literary 
men and fifty are from the military 
and naval service. In the selection of 
subjects of study English in some 
form leads all others with 2,14S regis
trations. Other popular subjects are 
mathematics, French, history, account
ing and banking.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
ting and maintenance crew, and the 
overcoming of a great deal of friction 
and inertia among the mechanics. The 
management knows the cost of 
changes, and hesitates.
A very glairing example of the high 
cost of fuel saving is furnished by the 
electrification of our railroads. Fuel 
can indeed be saved by electrification, 
but the cost is so enormous that elec
trification has been limited to subur
ban and terminal traffics. There are 
a few exceptions to this rule, and the 
road which constitutes the principal 
exception went into bankruptcy short
ly after the completion of electrifica
tion.
"The great cry, Professor Trinks 
suggested, "is apparently not to save 
fuel, but to save man power, to in
crease production per man, except in 
those processes in which the cost of 
fuel is so great that it completely over
shadows wages and salaries.
"Even in our domestic life, he con
tinued, "we are likewise confronted 
with the high cost of feul saving. Al
together too many houses in the 
United States are flimsily built. They 
keep out the rain, most of the wind, 
and the neighbors curiosity. They 
could be built with heat insulation, 
and a few are so built, but by far the 
greatest number with very little re
gard to insulation. Houses are built 
to sell or to rent, and the purchaser 
or renter will more readily buy or rent 
an inexpensive, attractive house than 
one less attractive but better built.
Furthermore, heating equipment is 
often inadequate, and furnaces must 
be forced; that is to say, used ineffi
ciently to ^etaerate the necessary heat. 
The result is a great fuel consumption 
during the cold season. Again, it 
costs too much, apparently, to save 
fuel.
All of this would be changed as if it 
were touched by a magic wand, the 
Carnegie professor believes, if fuel 
suddenly became scarce and expen
sive. If that change occurred, the fuel 
engineer, who is now the fifth wheel,, 
on the wagon in many industries, he 
observes, would suddenly rise into 
prominence and become an important 
personality.
If fuel is to be saved, he declared, 
"fuel must be made dear artificially. 
Evidently the only motive for such a 
step would be thoughtfulness for pos
terity. The question may well be 
asked: What has posterity done for 
us'? But a wise government must look 
ahead into the future and do like the 
farmer who plants fruit trees when he 
knows that they will not bear fruit 
while he is among the living.
Demonstration Equipment 
Received By Mining Dept.
The mining department has been 
fortunate in having been given some 
valuable additions to its demonstra
tion equipment and literature, re
cently. The Goodman Manufactur
ing Co. has presented each member 
of the mining faculty and each junior 
and senior in the department a copy 
of th Goodman Mining Handbook, 
which contains complete information 
on haulage, hoisting, and electrical 
applications to mines. Each book is 
well bound in leather,- and bears the 
name of the owner in inset gilt let^ 
ters. The Dupont Co. presented a 
stick of dynamite with its detonator 
and bottles containing samples of all 
Dupont explosives with other bottles 
containing their constituents. These 
samples will be used for classroom, 
demonstration. The Ingersoll Rand 
Co. presented a half dozen framed 
photographs of their products, com
prising rock drills, compressors, 
pumps, engines and other mining 
equipment. The Dorr Co. has given a 
set of framed photographs illustrat
ing equipment, installed in Collieries, 
for preparing coal for markets.
SANDBURG'S BOOK
SONG COLLECTION
Perpetuating the folk songs and 
ballads of American pioneer days, 
Carl Sandburg has added a valuable 
item to the collection of American 
literature in his latest book, "The 
American Songbag, published this 
fall. The pageant of the colorful days 
of a growing nation's history is re
flected in the pages of this miscellany 
of 280 songs, many of which are fa
miliar favorites.
Roistering, rollicking frontier songs, 
sentimental love ballads of old Ken
tucky, negro spirituals, steamboat 
and railroad songs, are all found with
in this musical melting pot, which 
catches the spirit of the conglomer
ate strains of American ancestry.
The music as well as the words of 
each song is printed in the book. 
Careful attention has been paid to 
even the orchestration of these old 
airs. Every phase of our national life 
finds expression in these songs, from 
those sung by the vagabonds and le
vee Avorkers to the parlor dittie^ be
loved of our grandfathers.
Besides "The American Songbag, 
Sandburg is the author of an authori
tative and sympathetic life of Lin
coln, Abraham Lincoln, the Prairie 
Years, a book which has been said 
to "make a perfectly vivid portrait of 
him (Lincoln) spiritually as well as 
physically.
Few Directories Left Of 
Successful Seasons Sale
The sale of student directories this 
year had been quite successful even 
though there still remains over one 
hundred to be sold. To date approxi
mately eight hundred and fifty stu
dent directories have been sold. 
This number is an increase of one 
hundred over the number sold last 
year. Last year the sale might have 
been more successful had there, been 
more copies printed. The number 
was limited to 750 while this year 
about one thousand copies were print
ed. The remaining one hundred are 
now on sale in the Y. M. C. A. office 
and any student may have them by 
inquiring at this office. It is hoped, 
by those in charge of this sale, that 
these copies will be disposed of in the 
near future making the project of the 
directory a complete success this 
year.
U. C. L. A., Los Angeles. California. 
"There is a lady at Peckham so 
modest she refused to wear a watch 
on her bosom because it wears 
hands. Sounds almost too modern, 
doesn't it? This quip was culled from 
a yellowed old paper, published In 
Napa City, Calif., in 1863.
This paper, as well as about 60' 
other early western newspapers, was 
presented to U. C. L. A. by Henry L. 
Bullen of the American Type Found
ers Company, Jersey City, N. J. The 
oldest of the newspapers was issued 
in San Francisco in April, 1861; the 
newest in 1870.
The tumult and excitement of early 
California, Nevada. Montana, Indian 
fights, the Civil War, Abraham Lin
coln of Illinois running for nresident 
stories like these are found in the 
peaceful pile of newspapers.
There was a fight in Sunrise Val
ley last Sunday between white set
tlers and Indian depredators. The 
redskins were whipped, and 10 of their 
number killed. Thus the Washee 
Weekly 'Star, Washee county, N. T. 
(Nevada Territory) fills up space on 
the back page of the issue of August 
27, 1864. A San Francisco paper of 
1861 has news of Jim Kirker, famous 
marksman, who was hired by the 
Mexican government to kill Indians 
at so much per head. He had been 
arrested by United States officials as 
a possible spy, but he was released 
when he proved that he was only In
terested in killing Indians.
Most of the papers supported Abra
ham Linocln for presidency both in 
1860 and in 1864.
Beauty shops collect $400,000,000 a 
year from 60,000,000 customers, and 
they employ 70,000 people.
Socrates Supplants Jazz Education m 
Experiment Under Western Savant
Greece, glorious apotheosis of 
ancientry, is once again inviting the 
interest of scholars in a renascence of 
Claksic learning at the University of 
Wisconsin.
When Lord Byron was inspired to 
write those prescient linos, little did 
ho realize that it would include the 
graceless shores of Lake Mendota at I 
Madison. Classic interest remains 
regrettably cyclical: this has boon 
ovlnved during the fltful epochs when 
the Enrl of Elgin an'd Heinrich Schlieihann attempted to acquaint the world 
with the Classics, and how that InterOHt subsequently perished.
At the University of Wisconsin an 
Experimental College has been estab
lished which Is devoting Us entire 
time to the study oli the Athenian 
civilization. This, undoubtedly, Is | 
one of the cyclical returns of Classic j 
Interest: let us hopo that It will not > 
Buffer the proverbial fate of perish-1 
Ing.
To Dr. Alexander Mollclejohn goes j 
the laurels for being the founder of I 
the Experimental College. And to the | 
University of Wisconsin goes the' 
gratulatlon for having accepted this 
mans Ideas which are patent of a i 
titanic stride in education.
Wnldo Frank once described Dr. | 
Molklejohn as looking like a man who | 
had been dropped into a world inhab
ited by savages and angels. . I-Ie is | 
of slight stature and rather spare1; Ills ! 
manner is unassuming. One is parrticularly impressed by the ardent en
thusiasm that this savant holds for 
his work. And together with an adroit 
sense of humor, Dr. Meiklejohn is one 
:of ttihe most winning personalities in 
itihe education field today.
Dr. Meiklejohn believes in encour
aging a liberal understanding in his 
college. My impression, he said, 
is that our civilization is beginning 
.another struggle to win generous uniflerstanding of the world. We need to 
understand the work and play of other 
men. In an objective view of the 
world each one of us sees himself as 
a relatively significant factor in a 
wider scheme of rtien and things, and 
no teaching-can be liberal which does 
not take that objective view.
Do you think that the students 
, who ptudy the classics in your college 
for. a whole yoar will have more cul
ture than others who have not had 
the opportunity? I askd the savant.
It is hard to say, he replied, if it 
will have any offeet. They do the 
samo things now as the oilier students: they enjoy themselves with all 
the amusements that the others en
joy.
When asked if he thought that it 
would raise their standards of litera
ture hejrepllod that there was nothing 
noticeable as yet, but the school was 
yet.young and one would be able to 
answer that better six months from 
now.
He went on to ,tell how the students 
had produced' The Clouds" by Aristo
phanes, and that this was highly in
dicative of at least a love for Classic 
drama. "They were Intensely intertasted In It, he continued, they made 
the scenery, and oven the costumes.
Gamos, such as were played In 
classic tlmos, have not been taken up 
by this college. Modern college men 
still have an appetency for football 
even though they may bo studying 
the Classics. Sinco this school is at
tempting to I he classic, it is to be 
regretted that the routine of the an
cient gymnasia has not boon Insti
tuted and thus harmonize the stu
dents education.
Striving lo render the body agile, 
strong and healthy was the innate am
bition of every true Greek. Their 
sculpture silently speaks of this fact 
In (lie fragmentary beauty that re
mains. Under these same azure skies 
there lived a race of people, twentyfive hundred years ago, conditioned 
in the!' most viable existence the Avorld 
has ever known. Because Beauty was 
endowed with the pristine holiness of 
the gods, it was worshiped.
Greece consummated the purpose 
of the world. All else has been taw
dry superfluity.
Fortunate, indeed, are these ' hun
dred and twenty students, who have 
been given the privilege of studying 
the pure philosophy and treasured lit
erature of the Ancient Greeks. '
It soon appears to the scholar that 
Demosthenes was more radical than 
Darrow; Aspasia Avas more notorious 
than Ruth Elder; one Trojan woman 
had more trouble than ten women like 
Ruth Snyder; and Lysistrata contains 
more common sense than all the all 
bilge that emanates from Western 
judicature.
Lake Mendota, placidjy serene, un
doubtedly suffered a saltation at this 
inauguration in the University of Wis
consin. Dr. Meiklejohns idea, never
theless, has reburnished the ardour 
for Greece. And to re-cho Pheidlppides once again, wo can truthfully 
proclaim
Athens is Saved!
Now YorkAlthough not planned to 
affect fraternity and sorority housos 
in particular, the revised insurance 
rates made recently by the New York 
Fire Insurance Rating has increased 
insurance rates on fraternity and 
sorority houses about 50 per cent on 
an average. The increase comes 
through interpretation of a claus con
cerning the number of families repre
sented in a house. Since the frater
nity bouses and1 their sister sorority 
bouses usually have about as many 
families represented as there are resi
dents, tbe interpretation lays a heavy 
load on :tihem.
Bozeman, Mont.Because ho has 
played throe years of intercollegiatefootball, Joe Dobeus, elected captain 
of the 1928 Montana State football 
team, will nave to relinquish his post. 
This was decided at the conference of 
coaches at Denver. The conference 
limits players to three years of com
petition, but it was thought locally 
that Dobeus would not come under 
this ruling because he started to play 
before the new rule was passed. The 
coaches thought otherwise, and Mon
tana State will have to elect a new 
captain.
What lies beyond 
the mountains?
MOUNTAINS blocked the trail of 
the pioneers who opened up the 
far west. But that impelling: urge of the 
true pioneer  to explore and know the 
country beyond  spurred them to sur
mount these barriers.
In office and laboratory, mountainous 
problems in management, in methods and 
in scientific research confront the men of 
the Bell Telephone System. Yet that same
A mountain of tele
phone subscribers is 
not the goal  but 
honxi to give better 
service.
pioneering instinctthe urge to better the 
known and attain the unknown  will 
carry them through.
Just as it has brought them through the 
difficulties in achieving nation-wide uni
form service, efficiendy engineered and 
wisely administered. To the modern 
frontiersmen who carry on this work to 
still greater developments will be given the 
thrill of adventure that lies in discovery.
BELL SYSTEM
c/nation-wide system of 18,000,000 inter-connecting telephones
OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN

---------------------------------------------------

rAVE-'HARVX 
SYRACUSE  
CALIFORNIA?^
EGX-S TI-UF
IUTLER  NOT^ WASHINGTON1
lMCXfb" DARTMOUTH
L A'DO : ti 
SCH  C1 
Alt IQV 
JERSON
I MARQUETTB * WASHIN 
|sv ADA j DETROIT  N. . U 
|\N5AS TULA 
SVESLIYAN  MI 
ILATAYBTTE 
V\ KANSAS * AR 
MINO i DRAKE '
UNION  ^S| IANNAjS&!i|&
PBNN S| 
WILLIAra 
JOHN H(| 
HOLY CIS 
OHIO . Cl
VHYF,IP
WASHING 
CASE-W 
ALrRBD-t 
PRINCBTl 
SWARTHK 
DENVER
ofyo/lpfcintmcntJTROIT
BD,J0 XNNG
\ C U S E - BROWN 
IA COLORADO 
CJEOROIA TBOJI 
E DAME  IOWA 
>N - VERMONT 
UKBKANSAS
Tms ShieldTdeNtifies 
diuthenhc. *- College Hall apparel
TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
College Expense Is High 
Says Dean Amos Of Pitt
(From the Pittsburgh Fress)
College graduates are expensive 
products, according to charts made re
cently by seniors at the University of 
Pittsburgh. These charts show how 
much Pitt students cost their inrents 
and society from birth until gradua
tion from college. The highest esti
mate of the total cost was $57,933, the 
lowest $14,360, and the median $21,- 
000.
The purpose of the charts, accord
ing to Thyrsa W. Amos, dean of 
women and professor of sociology at 
the university, who required each 
senior student who is taking her 
course in "The Art of Living,, to esti
mate the amount that has been spent 
on him thus far in his life, is to show 
the student how much has been done 
for him and to enable him to run over 
the items of expenditure and determine which were necessary and which 
were necessary and which were ex
travagant. After estimating the 
amount that others have invested in 
him, she feels that he will recognize 
an obligation to make an adequate re
turn on the investment by making the 
most of himsef.
The information in the reports was 
furnished by city and county officials, 
by parents of the students, and from 
the students knowledge. No student 
in the course is over 22 years of age 
and both men and women are in
cluded.-
The estimates include all necessi
ties, luxuries, gifts, protection, privi
leges, education and, in short, every
thing in the students life that has 
cost money.
The highest estimate, $57,933, was 
a girls, but one of the men in the 
class is not far behind with $56,000. 
The lowest' amount expended, $14,360, 
is a girls estimate.
On the highest estimate, the student 
received $8,666.65 in automobiles, $16,- 
059 in amusements, including recrea
tion, clubs, fraternity, parties and 
toys; $6,610 for education, $9,016 in 
food, $12,000 in clothing, $3,216 in 
allowance, $18,744, her share in her 
home, $1,950 in doctor bills, and $100 
cost of birth.
The student who submitted the low
est estimate included $420 in automo
biles, $123 in amusements, $808 in 
education, $380 allowance, $3,225 in 
food, $183 doctor, $911 home, $1,926 
clothing, and $50 birth.
The median, which the majority of 
charts approached, included $3,000 for 
automobiles, $2,160 for education, $1,- 
160 for allowance, $1,133 for amuse
ment, $5,484 for food, $4,065 for cloth
ing, $5,000 for home, $720 for doctor 
bills and $290 cost of birth.
The course in "The Art of-Living 
which Dean Amos is giving for the 
first time this semester is being tried 
in several universities in the country 
in an effort to discover what the uni
versity should offer the student that 
it fails to offer. However, according 
to Miss Amos, only pioneer work is 
being done in the field and thus far 
the course is merely an experiment.
When the expense charts were com
pleted  by the students, Miss Amos 
queried, Will your income next year 
when you start to earn money be a 4 
percent dividend on the investment 
that has been made in your life?
The BagpipeExams Inaugurate Season of Chills, 
High Blood Pressure, Gloom and Doom
HOME MISSIONS PROVIDE
GREAT OPPORTUNITIES
The question asked this week was: 
"What do you think about award
ing varsity letters to girls competing 
in intercollegiate athletics?
Clarence Overend, graduate man-1 
ager of atliletirs: "Regarding the
awarding of varsity letters to women 
who compete in intercollegiate atlileI 
tics, I do not know of any college or 
university that makes awards of this 
kind. Some schools give a separate 
and distinct letter other than the one 
worn by the men. If the women of 
Carnegie Tech are interested further 
in this matter, I would be pleased to 
sent oue a questionnaire to the lead
ing coeducational schools and find 
out what, the others are doing.
"Personally, I would favor some 
other iletter than that given to the 
men for the reason that about 90 per 
cent of our men either give away or 
loan their varsity sweaters to women 
and it would be very hard to dis
tinguish the winners of the womens 
letter.
Mary Watson Green, Dean of
Women:
"The real goal for athletics for 
women is health and the outdoor ex
ercises in the Womans Athletic As
sociation should cover work for all 
women students. Our womans
Athletic Association is a member of
the National Womans Athletic As
sociation and awards the letter C in 
accord with the requirements made 
by this organization. This is to me a 
more satisfactory type of athletic
performance for women than the in
tercollegiate competitive games. Our 
great need on this campus is to create 
an interest among the women for out
door sports.
Lieutenant J. C. Arrowsmith, Coach 
of Girls Rifle Team:
"Rifle competition is the only inter
collegiate sport in which the women 
of this institution aare engaged. Su
periority in this sport should be re
warded by a suitable letter. Not to 
exceed five letters should be awarded 
in any year. Suitable rules for these 
awards can be readily drawn.
Guy W. Champney, Sophomore in 
Electrical Engineering:
"If girls compete in intercollegiate, 
athletics, they have just as much 
right to wear the varsity letter as the 
boys have. There is no reason why 
the girls should not have intercollegi
ate sports if they are physically fit. 
The letters ought to be different from 
those of the boys. I also think that 
the girls letters should be awarded 
on a competitive basis.
Jean Roy, Senior .in Household Eco
nomics:
"I feeli. that women taking part in 
an intercollegiate sport should re
ceive a letter of some sort, for their 
activity, but I dont think a varsity 
letter would be appropriate. Girls at 
Carnegie do have an opportunity to 
win a letter by taking part in a num
ber of different int.erclass sports for 
three or four years.
"But women taking part in an inter
collegiate sport find that they have 
no time for Inter-class sportsand 
therefore receive no recognition for 
their effort.
The finals are coming, tra la, la la. I 
The finals are coming, tra la, la la | 
and so on, to be sung, in a sprightly 
manner, to the tune of "The Kilties 
Are Coming. Yes! sleep, sing, and 
be merry for tomorrow ajid tomorrow 
and tomorrow sweeps toward us with 
rapidly increasing momentum, bring
ing a bitter medicine which is more 
likely to kill than to cure.
Soon we are to discover again (as 
we dp regularly twice each year) that 
this life at college is a hard, unrelent
ing regime, and the professors "just 
arent doin right by us.
Day by day the gloom becomes 
darker and more depressing. Brows 
grow blacker; steps quicker (no loit
ering now); books are cracked for the 
first time; synopses are swallowed 
wholesale with bad effects on the di
gestion; hearts are pounding in terri
ble anticipation; an occasional, "God! 
how I wish this were over breaks out
Stressing the advantages of a min
ister working in a small place and es
pecially on the frontier, over those of 
a city preacher, Dr. J. Pringle, who 
worked in the Yukon along with the 
pioneers of the gold rush of 1898 in 
the capacity of a missionary of the 
Presbyterian church, spoke to a theo
logical audience. His talk, entitled 
Home mission work as an opportu
nity for personal influence and per
sonal development, was made up of 
a wealth of anecdotes arising -from his 
49 years of ministry, which served to' 
illustrate the points which he out
lined.
This address was the concluding 
one in the series of Robinson Memo
rial Lectures which Dr. Pringle has 
been delivering at the United Theo
logical Colleges this week. He com
menced last evening by giving a short 
sketch of Dr. Robinson in whose 
honor the lectures were delivered, and 
who was the pioneer in home mission 
work in the west. Then mentioning a 
series of personal experiences he 
showed that business men value mis
sionary work of this kind. A mission
ary among the people of the north 
shore of Lake Superior was drowned 
from his canoe as he was going up the 
river to fish. Sir William Van Horne 
ordered every spare man on two divi
sions of the C. P. R. to devote him
self for a week to  the task of locat
ing the body of this missionary.
It was shown that the vast pioneer 
areas, although limited in population 
nevertheless provide great opportuni
ties for the man who would make con
tacts and have his influence felt. To 
illustrate the variety of acquaintances 
that he has made, Dr. Pringle told of 
a picturesque old packer whom he had 
Known in the Yukon. Later he met 
this mans sister in Winnipeg, and she 
had not seen her brother for 20 years 
or more. Then when a chaplain in 
France in 1914, Dr. Pringle met the 
nephew of the old packer who was a 
private in the army.
A fit body and a sound heart were 
the first qualities that a man contem
plating a pioneer ministry must have, 
said the speaker. He must be prepar
ed to sleep any place and to eat any
J. M. FROE,LICK SPEAKS
AT A. I. E. E. MEETING WED.
(Continued From Page One.) 
meeting with the Enghf#ers Society 
of Western Pennsylvania, and many 
students are expected to attend. The 
program will be as follows: 6:30, din
ner in honor of President Gherardi; 
7:45, informal reception to meet 
President Gherardi; 8:00 p. m a 
program in the Chamber of Com
merce Auditorium, consisting of the 
reading of those technical papers for 
which the A. I. E. E. is famous.
on the tense atmosphere. Undoubtedly 
the campus is sick. It has a high fever 
interspersed with Icy chills, acute in
digestion, St. Vitus on the brain, pal
pitations, high blood pressure, insom
nia, and perspiration. On the whble, 
the campus is in a bad way.
But cheer up! February brings 
peacesomewhere. Maybe here and 
again maybe elsewhere depending 
where the exam results place the stu
dent bodyor bodies. (Dont smile, 
brother, you may be oue of the bod
ies!) At any rate this morgue-like 
oxicence cant last forever. And, as 
Shakespeare once beautifully stated, 
it wont be long nowso cheer up. It 
may be agony for the next couple 
weeks, but think of the starving Ar
menians and the refreshing sleep of 
February, and be content. And when 
February comes, please dont let me 
remind that May and June are close 
behind and so are the. finals.
Peace bi with you!
Dr. Baker To Give Lecture Tenth Convention Held
Course In Paris Next Mar.
Dr. Thomas Stockham Baker, presi
dent of Carnegie, has accepted an in
vitation to give a course of five 
lectures in Paris next March under 
the auspices of the Carnegie Endow
ment for International Peace.
Although the dates of the lectures 
have not been set definitely, Dr. 
Baker expects to deliver them be
tween March 15 and 22. The general 
subject of the course will be "What 
the United States Is Thinking About. 
He will present the lectures in French. 
Paris arrangements for the delivery 
of the course will be in charge of the 
Division in Europe which carries on 
its work through the Centre European.
Dr. Baker plans to sail for Europe 
in the middle of February. He ex
pects to spend the major portion of 
his time abroad in organizing the 
European part of the second Inter
national Conference on Bituminous 
Coal which will be held at the Car
negie Institute of Technology In the 
week of November 19, 192S.
kind of food or no food at all. Dr. 
Pringle who was at one time the best 
snowshoer in the north country, sub
sisted for a week at one time, on a 
pancake a day. He said he had been 
sick only once in the whole time he 
was in the Yukon.
Simple goodness, not necessarily 
righteousness consisting of plain un
selfishness and moral uprightness was 
the second requisite for the pioneer 
man. Proper preparedness of mind 
by an adequate knowledge of the 
Scriptures and of the arguments 
against religion was also necessary. 
The former was to be used more as & 
background and a subj-ect of personal 
contemplation than as material for 
sermons. But he explained, people go 
to a Christian church especially for 
the purpose of hearing about Christ.
An interest in children, perhaps de
veloped by teaching experience, 
served a purpose, as adults are often 
reached only through their children. 
The final point that Dr. Pringle urged 
was tenacity. A man must stay with 
the job, and keep both eyes on it.
The advantages that accrue from 
the life in the open and the intimate 
contacts were then outlined. The 
physical side was illustrated by Dr. 
Pringles knowledge of husky dogs 
and his experiences in the open.
Columbus, OhioCalvin Coolldge 
will have nothing on the Ohio State 
undergraduates in the way of mechan
ical horses. The State polo te'am is to 
have its practice on a life-sized wooden 
horse to be placed in the middle of the 
practice court. The floor of the court 
slopes from all sides toward the cen
ter, so that no matter how hard the 
would-be polo player hits the ball, it 
will continue Jo roll toward him.
NEW UNIVERSAL
TONGUE WILL BE
TAUGHT HERE
By Student Volunteers
The tenth quadrennial convention 
of the Student Volunteer Movement 
met for four days, beginning Decem
ber 28tli, in the Masonic Temple of 
Detroit, for the purpose of discussing 
foreign Christian missionary work.
Student delegates from practically 
every state in the union, as well as 
from many foreign countries made up 
a total attendance of nearly four thou
sand. Over 50 delegates, including 
three from our own campus, were sent 
to represent various churches and re
ligious organizations of the city.
Many noted speakers, including 
Sherwood Eddy, John 11. Mott, Frances 
Wei, Mordskai Johnson and Dr. Hadglcin , presented various phases of the 
subject to the delegates, who met on 
several occasions, in small groups to 
raise and discuss various questions 
which they might have.
 CORNELL  PENNSYLVANIA 'COLUMfeTA 
SWARTHMORE  TUFTS  KNOX  ALABAMA  LCLAND STANFORD 
DENVER - MICHIGAN  DELAWARE  GEORGETOWN  FLORIDA 
 CHICAGO > NORTHWESTERN  ILLINOIS i INDIANA - PURDUC 
IOWA  VANDERBILT  TEXAS  TENNESSEE  UTAH  VERMOK1 
 RUTGERS  BOWDQIN  CENTRE  GRINNELL  DE PAUV. 
DAKOTA1- COLOATE  OHIO  OBERLIN  LEHIGH  LAFAYETTB
College Hall 
Two-Trouser Suits
Reduced in price during the GIMBEL 
clearance of. IC. & B. stocks. This in
cludes the entire stock of these famous 
suits.
$28.00
Regularly $35.00
-ASHINOTON V LBB  WYOMING i DRAKE 
JTBRN RESERVE UNION 
MARQUETTE 
 N. Y.U 
ALBRIGHT 
HARVARD
PRELIMINARY TICKETS FOR
WOMENS PROM ON SALE
Fifty-six students were present at 
the first 1 meeting of the Esperanto 
club, sponsored by Professor Alfred 
Kenngott, instructor in Germanic 
languages, which met Saturday morn
ing in room 204 of the Main Building. 
Hirsh Schwartz was elected presi
dent, Helen Hamilton, vice president, 
Mrs. Madge Servatius, secretary, Dor
othy Guldmann, treasurer, and Sarah 
Favermann, librarian^
Neutral Language.
Esperanto is a neutral, auxiliary 
language which is already in wide use, 
according to members of the newlyorganized club. It was officially 
adopted as the international radio 
language by the International, Radio 
Language Association, and already 
thousands of volumes have been writ
ten In the new tongue.
Speaks New Tongue.
The language will be taught in the 
University by Professor Kenngott, 
who speaks Esperanto fluently and 
who has written a text in the Interna
tional tongue. All students who are 
interested learning the . language 
should attend the next meeting of the 
Esperanto club, which will be held In 
room 219 Tuesday night. At this 
meeting regular lectures will be 
initiated in' the subject.
Professor Kenngotts book in Es
peranto, Illustritaj Rakontetoj, was 
the second,bpok to be translated from 
Esperanto 'to another language, and 
he has been asked to have the volume 
translated into Flemish and French. 
The first book ever translated from 
this new international language was 
the novel Cu Li, meaning, It it 
he written by a Dr. Valienne.
Universally Accepted.
Esperanto belongs to no nation, but 
is accepted by all without national 
prejudice, Mr. Kenngott said. It was 
created in 1887 by Dr. L. L. Zamenhoff 
of Warsaw, Poland, and has since be
come universally accepted as the 
language by which people of different 
tongues mdy communicate.
(Continued irrom page One.) 
prom from the beginning of her fresh
man year; needless to say every Col
lege graduate looks back upon It with 
enjoyment. It is something that 
stands out just a little above Frater
nity dances, Campus Weeks, and 
House parties. No College career Is 
complete without It. Besides every
one is going.
Therefore Juniors get your first
In our college rooms on the Fifth Floor, the 
Tech man can always get the best of serviceas 
well as the best of clothes. Our salesmen are fitted 
to particular departments, just as particular clothes 
are fitted to you. We have tried to choose those 
salesmen who can help you, but who are not obtru
sive in their suggestions.
We firmly believe that a visit to our clothing 
department at this timein the midst of re
organization and clearanceswould show you 
the wonderful values to be had in this store.
591.I2 8N-BXINV
FORMERLY KAUFMANN L BAER CO.
Sixth Avenue and Smithfield Street
ticket, as soon as possible and begin 
to save for Assessment No. 2 for it is 
rumored that this is only the begin
ning.
Flvo dollarsany timeto the gilt 
in your department and claim your 
first pasteboard.
American women spend $1,825,000,- 
000 a year for beauty, which hus be
come a major Industry.
STUDENT COUNCIL RULES
NO ARTS* BALL THIS YEAR
(Contluued From Page Ono) 
Spann, Oakmont druggist, was read, 
In which he askod monetary compen
sation for losses sustained by him 
due to the actions of a group of 
Sophomores one evonlng. The matter 
was tabled for ono week ponding an 
Investigation.
EDUCATION OF WOMEN IS 
NOW NECESSARY IN THE 
PROGRESSIVE BUSINESS WORLD
(Continued From Page One.) 
to $1,500 for her first year. This 
amount is considerably higher and 
advances further than that received 
by a high school graduate.
Now that statistics are adequately 
calculated there can be no dispute 
about the question of womans educa
tion. The college woman of today 
has proven herself more prepared 
and better equipped to compete 
against the practically uneducated 
woman of less than 50 years ago.
Madison, WIs.Students at the Law 
School at the University of Wisconsin 
have a habit of congregating outside 
their classrooms before classes each 
day and "rating each co-ed as she 
passes. The girls are graded ac
cording to several qualifications. But 
the co-eds are not enthusiastic about 
passing before the self-appointed 
judges, and have taken to entering the 
building by a side door or passing on 
the other side of the street.
Distinguished by a favor that places it first
BA is a natural pride that Camel feels for 
its triumphs. Not only did it lead the 
field shortly after its introduction. It 
passed steadily on with each succeeding 
year until today it holds a place in pub
lic favor higher than any other smoke 
ever reached. Camel is supreme with 
modern smokers.
Obviously, there is a quality here 
that particular smokers appreciate. It 
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMoua
is indeed the myriad fjualities of per
fection that are to he found in the 
choicest tobaccos grown. And the art of 
Nature is aided by a blending that un
folds cach delicate taste and fragrance.
You will more than like Camels. 
You will find a solace in them every 
smoking hour. Their mildness and 
mellowness arc an endless pleasure. 
% Have a Camel!
PA NY. WIN ST ON/.'s A L E M . N. C.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1928
PLEBE CAGERS TO 
OPEN SEASON AT 
GENEVA TONIGHT
WOMEN RIFLERS 
TO FIRE OPENER
Rochester, N. Y. Manufacturers 
and retailers of hats have begun to en
joy life once more as college men are 
showing an increasing inclination to 
wear top pieces. Many still go bare
headed, but the majority now prefer 
to be covered.
And likewise, the garter industry is 
picking up with the decision of college 
men throughout the country that sox 
are for the legs, not drapes for the 
slioe-tops.
But another industry is being threat
ened by the whims and vagaries of 
college men. That is the underwear 
business. Hard hit when modern ath
letic rules decreed the discard of the 
winter heavies," they have manged 
to struggle until now'. But from the 
South comes word of a new fad, 
namely, that of discarding the under
shirt altogether, and going about with 
underwear made up only of a pair of 
white running pants. The University 
of Alabama is the originator, accord
ing to the latest word here, but the 
fad is spreading. Meanwhile .under
wear magnates are uttering fervent 
prayers that they are not to be made 
to bear the burden just being given up 
by the hat and garter industries.
Intra-Mural Floor League Divisions
AMERICAN LEAGUE
ALPHA. TAU OMEGA BETA THETA PI
BETA SIGMA IlI-IO DELTA UPSILON
SCOBELL HALL KAPPA SIGMA RHO
PI KAPPA ALPHA PHI KAPPA
Varsity Rifle 
Schedule
The Carnegie Women Riflers will 
open their firing season this - week 
with Ohio Wesleyan College and Get
tysburg College. Two teams have 
been formed, the high scores of last 
year being, scheduled to fire on both 
teams. Several Freshmen will also 
fire on these teams. Last year the 
Carnegie women defeated Ohio Wes
leyan 496 to 463, and Gettysburg 498 
to 470. It is looped that this years 
team will be able to uphold the fine 
record established last year.
In the beginners rifle match, which 
was held the week before vacation, to 
determine the winner of the cup of
fered by Major Taylor, five girls tied 
for first place. They were: Florence 
Bohleber, Katherine Collins, Madeline 
Ferguson, Dorothy Roy and Elsa 
Weber.
Ift this match each contestant was 
required to fire for groups, using a 
short rifle. This week the five girls 
who tied will fire again, using long 
rifles and the new.targets, and firing 
for scores.
Major Taylor will present the win
ner of this match with a silver cup 
sometime in the near future. This is 
the second year that Major Taylor has 
offered a cup to the beginner having 
the liiglfest score.
The other girls who fired in the be
ginners match were Martha Clark, 
MaryvGordon, Helen Lamb, Georgette 
Rittenliouse, Eleanor Seyler and 
Evelyn Thayer.
January 14
Mississippi A. & M. College 
January 21 
Lehigh University 
Worcester Polytechnic Institute 
(Prone only)
February 11 
Amherst College (3 positions) 
Mass. Inst. Tech.
Mass. Agricultural College University of Delaware 
University of Kansas 
February 18 
Louisville University 
February 25 
Dayton University 
University of Vermont 
Western Maryland University 
March 3 
Ohio State University 
University of California 
March 10 
Williams College 
Syracuse University 
Georgetown University 
University of Missouri 
March 17 
University of Maryland (3 positions)
Gettysburg College
March 24 
Oklahoma A. & M. College
The Freshman basket ball team, 
which was somewhat slowed up by 
the holidays, has renewed practice 
and will formally begin its schedule 
tonight In a preliminary game with 
Genova College's Reserve Squad at 
their gym. The varsity fives of the 
-two schools will play the featufry 
game later in the evening.
Just before classes. wore dismissed 
for the holidays a scrimmage was 
held with Shady Side Academy. As 
this was purely a practice game, no/ 
score was kept; but neither team look
ed very classy. The Plebes have to 
become used to working with one an
other, and must develop passing com
binations.
Their first real chance to prove 
their strength will come tonight. The 
lineup to start the opener will see 
Fox, of South I-Ilgh, Youhgstown, at 
center. He is tall and fast and 
though this is his first year at the 
pivot position, he should do well. 
Davis and Black will take care of the 
forwards. Davin is from Ileidelburg 
and Black is from McKinley, In Can
ton. Both are fast and can do plenty 
of shooting. Nease, from Kiskl, will 
play runhing guard and will probably 
bo acting captain. Knouse, also 1'iom 
Youngstown South, will hold down 
stationary guard. More tlikn likely 
the Flannagans will get In, Thayer at 
guard and Lathaw at center.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
WELCH HALL 
PHI KAPPA PSI 
KAPPA SIGMA ACACIA
QW5RK ef 
Ba9IB tn
SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON 
HENDERSON HALL
FEDERAL LEAGUE
BOSS HALL McGILL HALL
PIII SIGMA KAPPA DELTA MU
ALPHA SIGMA Pill SIGMA PHI EPSILON
DELTA TAU DELTA DELTA PHI DELTA
Intra-mural basket ball begins on Monday night, February 6. The 
time alloted to play the regular scheduled games is seven weeks. The 
championship games will probably require about one and one-half weeks.
'CO-EDUCATION BAD
FOR FOOTBALL MEN,
SAYS KNUTE ROCKNE
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS"If American college football coaches 
in the next few yeatfs form a league 
for the suppression of coeducation, it 
will be because Knute Rockne, Notre 
Dame coach and builder of some of 
the best football teams in American 
collegiate history, attributed his suc
cess in part to the fact that there are 
no women at Notre Dame.
From the point of view of develop
ing athletic teams the coed, in Rockne's view is a liability.. She takes a 
lot of the athletes time either at the 
expense of his studies, his playing, or 
his sleep. 
The quotation above is taken from 
an editorial in yesterday mornings 
Cleveland Plain Dealer.
The idea as expressed by Rockne 
did not find favor with the gridiron 
men of the University of Akron. Ben 
Baldwin, captain of the football team 
in tlie season just finished, when 
askd'd if he thought that coeducation 
was bad for football players, replied, 
Bad for them? Why, its good for 
them.
Chester I-Iartline, halfback, also ex
pressed the opinion that the presence 
of the coeds did not disturb them. 
Gene Warner thought they might 
have some influence on the abilities 
of a football player, but was not sure 
whether it would be for the better or 
worse.
Fred Bock, observer of many foot
ball games, said that he knew of more
Stretching Your Income
Only through careful, system
atic and efficient handling of 
your funds can you make the 
most of your income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promoting 
the financial welfare of custom
ers and are ever ready to assist 
in the solution of their financial 
problems.
Your savings and checking ac
counts, even though small, are 
welcome here.
Capital and Surplus 
$17,000,000
Eugene, Ore.I nominate for the 
Hall of Fame the undergraduate who 
is to be the new campus policeman at 
the University of Oregon. It is this 
way. The students got sore when the 
police interfered with their dances. So 
the police compromised with them 
by promising to make an undergrad
uate a policeman. Now the student 
can interfere with the dances. Tis 
will be a happy lifehereafter.
TARTEN QUINTET
LOSES TO WEST VA.
AND DAVI E-ELKINS
(Continued From Page One) 
lar player in both of the engagements 
and was highest scorer, sinking seven 
goals and two fouls. White was al
so high scorer last year in his first 
varsity game which was with West 
Virginia. Crum and Letzelter joined 
White at Morgantown in performing 
in a very creditable fashion; Letzelter 
came through very commendably con
sidering his one week of practice. 
However it would have been much 
better if Hitchcock had played and 
been relieved by Letzelter. Coach 
Erwin is very seriously handicapped 
by the absence of veteran men for the 
squad, as well as the small number 
who turn out, to put an exceptional 
team on the floor. If Hapster and 
Stauffer would play there would be 
much more assurance of Plaid victo
ries.
The Skibos continue their traveling 
tonight with a trip over to Beaver 
Falls to take on the Covenanter five. 
Friday night is the game; the first 
of the three game series with Pitt. 
The Scots will boldly invade the Sta
dium Pavilion in an attempt to defeat 
Doc Carlsons undefeated and highly 
lauded Panthers on their home floor. 
Pitt boasts of one of the strongest 
floor squads in its history, while the 
Plaid squad has been conspicuously 
hung with very black crepe. A victory 
would add greatly to the prestige of 
the Plaid squad and needless to say 
it will be a battle ro^yal with every 
Tartan lighting to the final whistle. 
With Hitchcock playing, and perhaps 
I-Iarpster, the outlook for a victory 
is not to be ridiculed.
The outcome of the Geneva game 
Is highly speculative and quite a little 
doubtful. The Covenanters are also 
blessed with a first class squad, and 
it will be bitterly contested victory 
for either side. In keeping with the 
Carnegie custom of having no home 
games until the examinations are past, 
but not forgotten history, the basketeers play six engagements abroad be
fore making their first home stand on 
February 8 with the Panthers as op
ponents.
The lineup for the Davis-Elkins and 
West Virginia game:
D. & E.49. Carnegie20.
McKinney ..............F..................... High
Pascover ................F.................... Crum
Christy (Cap.) ...C...................... Bond
Barrett ...............G.... (Cap.) White
Ivochenderfer ... G........... Letzelter
SubstitutesD. & E., Miller, Brown,
Wallace, Warren. CarnegiePomerance.
Field goalsMcKinney 9> Pascover 
5, Christy 4, Barrett 3, Wallace, Kochenderfer, Crum, Bond 2, White 4, Let
zelter.
FoulsD. & E., 3 out of 9; Tech.
4 out of 7.
RefereeRidgely, W. & J.
First; Unitarian ClhorcliOakland Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
The Oakland Bank
Morning Service 11 A. M. 
The Enlarging Thought of God
Dr. Mason.
Evening Service 8 P. M.
The Outlawing of War 
Mr. Smith.
Tech Beauty ShoppeI am enough of an idealist to 
believe that the coeds have an 
inspiring effect on the football 
team, says one Akron' student.
Capital-----$300,000.00
Surplus-----$400,000.00
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
Tech Barber Shop
Complete service for Ladies 
and Gentlemen.
4531 FORBES STREET, NEAR 
CRAIG 
For Appointmenta^Call 
Mayflower 2838Returns to 
His Favorite 
Tobacco
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
UoglnnorH Monday and Friday 
lOvonlngH. Advancod, Thursday and Saturday Evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.
Mayflower 7891Boerne, Texas Qct. 14, 1926Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Dear Sirs:I am a prodigal son.I began pipe-smoking with Edgeworth. But after a while I began to wander, trying other tobaccos, experimenting to see if there were any better tobacco for the pipe.I have tried most of the best known 
brands and a number of the more obscure, both imported and domestic, but they didnt suit.
So now I have returnedI am using Edgeworth again, satisfied that no better tobacco is made.And the prodigal son partook of the fatted calf; I bought a new pipe 
when I returned to Edgeworth.With many thanks for my cool, mellow, sweet smokes, I am,Very truly yours,H. D
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
National Tailors
Will feature this season 
CONSERVATIVE 
Style and Fabrics In 
SUITS 
OVERCOATS 
TOPCOATS 
TUXEDOS 
Also a complete line of im
ported and domestic fancy pat
terns, in the
NEWEST APPROVED 
COLLEGIATE MODELS
Attention Students!
We sell and rent all 
makes of typewriters. 
Portable and Standard 
Machines. 
See our Big Supply and 
get special student 
rates.
Standard Typewriter
Company
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
ATLANTIC 0342
Display at 
SKI BO INN 
January 9 and 10
Cambridge, Mass.The first wom
ans college daily newspaper was es
tablished this fall at Radcliff College 
when the Radcliff paper was made a 
daily publication. The sheet is three 
columns four to six pages in size, and 
the editor is Miss Evalyn M. Enz, 2S. 
The publication is a member of the In
tercollegiate Press.
BALTIMORE
is worth one dollar to any student renting a 
Tuxedo Suit from us 
COMPLETE LINE OF ACCESSORIES
Ad must be presented x
W. Va.37. Carnegie29.
Taylor (Cap.) ... .F-----............... High
Glenn ...................F...................... Crum
Hagberg ..............C------f. :v'.. .. Bond
Ratclisse .............G------ (Cap.) White
Black ....................G............ Haywood
SubstitutonsW. Va., Suriimers,
Gull, Reilly, Fox, Scott. Carnegie,
Kilgore, Pomerance, Letzelter.
Field goal^Carnegie, High 2, 
Crum 4, Bond, White 3, Letzelter. 
FoulsHigh 1, Crum 4, Bond 2.
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLDRENTEDREPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Royal Portable DistributorsCOURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
Fayetteville, Ark.The Arkansas 
Alumnus notes the display of a col
lection of art from Holland in the art 
department of the University qf Ar
kansas. In it were three liand-painted 
plates and other pieces of earthen
ware said to be 150 years old, A dozen 
oil paintings, pencil and ink sketches, 
a polished brass fuel cpntainer and 
foot wanner, three hand-woven Pais
ley shawls, said to be 100 years old. 
pieces of bobbin lace and hand-knitted 
lace, the latter having been made by 
Mrs. Kile, the exhibitor, and a min
iature Dutch boat made by a ship 
pilot during the World War, when 
it was too dangerous for him to per
form Ills work of piloting ships off 
the coast of Hollandthese are somo 
of the items that were displayed.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone 2604 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
Ifv I S I O N ti 
J PROGRESS L 
1 S E R V I C. E 1 
CHARACTER /*
SKAETLTPI is a profession with great promise for 
a successful career. Our organization alfords many 
real opportunities. Interview between 9 A. M. and 
3 P. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
Madison, Wis.If they promise not 
to have a wet party, the juniors at 
the University of Wisconsin are to be 
allowed lo use the state capitol build
ing for their prom next spring.
Fasssy W1 Hse
Novelty stripes and plaids, very attractive patterns and bright colors. 
Just the kind students like to wear.
75c$1 .00-*-$1.50 PER PAIRIntroduction by a friend is usually 
the safest way to'make new acquaint
ances. For 'about fifteen years this 
paper has introduced its students to a 
dependable Service Station" for Invi
tations, Programs, Gifts, Pens, Pen 
Repairs, etc. Refer to this notice if 
you patronize the Singer Pen & Gift 
Shop, Jenkins Arcade.
AaiSSaaitaraa & Evaass
HATTERS AND FURNISHERS 
6100 PENN AVENUE
At Sheridan Square ^ Established 1872
Now York CityWilliam D. Stew
art. Jr., 25, who graduated from the 
University of Pennsylvania three 
years ago, has bought a stock exchang soat for $270,000, the highest 
price ever paid.
S^UfMANN9#
FIFTH AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
- AMD YoU rA/\V5 ALL ARRANGeMeNTS To RSS'1' *m th^ ariv2> opNtor<pneus 
d922J Hdi QH,cl r'Aor=*.h-UMi<-i.
WHH YoUUE. BEEM OUT ObJ Tt-<= 
road For. a WGSV< r-AAv<lM<2, 
^LespL6s55 5LeePER. Jum^PS 
EVERY NI^HT
- AMO FINALLY YOU HIT A RQftU TvxjfO WITH A RtEAL HOTe>l_ AMD 
UEAL 6(EX)3 OM rQKBAgJh;a bn5XhB
HERB1 .S VJMiHRE SL.EI3P> 
ftjD I (aT ACWiMTED - oioce MORI?. ----_I VJOMDcR IF
dXI 5fa dXBMAr^ED THESES ^ LIEG. Pi MO CARS Ev/e-R TRUED 
To .St-EEf* |SJ OWE
DO NOT 
DISTURB
Till You wish Youd Tried .f 
(Sbt A Flop im a Boiler, 
factory. r  Tjiy
/ SHUT UP..
I DO You Th/HK
You're SiN6i^6\ TrtE os8e k N-VV9, cuLLAey'.
OMesDDY is ajlujays taking 
dXIu W-a -HB -p 2M9pywJ
^AY, CLERK, *S(=kiD T*-\\S 
BIRD IKi 436 A caRTom of 
OLD GOUOS, AMD TgflL Hlf'A 
TriGRE Ali^T A COUGH IM 
A CARLOADFRDYN NGH
U----H
'nmiiiu
Somebody Is Always Taking the Joy Out of LifeBy BRIGGS
- AMD THEM OUST AS YoU I>OZB 
PF Trte.FeLLOUJ .NEXT DoOR 
STARTS OU>T to BREAK THE 
LoMibDISTAMCE C0U,HHO6 RORO
PAG GoldThe Smoother and Better Cigarette 
 not a cough in a carload
1928, P. Lorillnrd Co., Et.
On the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
The basket ball season started off somewhat inauspiciotisly last week, 
the Tartan five being taken over by Davis Elkins on Friday and by West 
Virginia on Saturday. Very ragged play, by all except Captain White, char
acterized the performance of the Carnegie team in the first game, but con
siderable improvement was noticeable on the following evening, the team as 
a whole functioning much better, with Crum providing the fireworks.
Although the general impression prevails that little can be hoped for 
from the team this year, due to mediocre material, the writer thinks other
wise, and looks for the team to get going shortly, after the boys get accus
tomed to working together under fire. Then, too, the return of Hitchcock, 
who has been ill at his home, should add considerable strength to the 
team. Hitchy played a very creditable game last year, and is practically sure 
of a regular guard berth when be returns. This will probably mean bench
ing Letzelter, who is playing under Coach Irwin for the first time, or moving 
White to forward and benching High, who is good, but is handicapped by 
lack of size. If Harpster decides to come out, the team should be the best 
in years. /* * * * r * * *
The floor schedule for this week calls for games with Geneva and Pitt, 
both away. Thp Covenanters will be met tonight, and the Panther will be bearded in its lair on Friday night.
Geneva usually has a good basket ball outfit, and should provide plenty 
of trouble for tlie Tartans,, but there is a good possibility that the Plaid will 
chalk up its first victory tonight, down at Beaver Falls.
Pitts cagers, undefeated so far this season, are looking forward to an 
easy time on Friday night, which is all that Coach Irwin couJ.cL ask for be
cause an over-confident team will beat itself, witli^a little aid from its opponents.
Undoubtedly, Pitt should win this game, but overconfidence has changed 
the aspect of many a set-to, and it is quite possible that it may do so on 
Friday night. But in spite of the prospects of victory, the fact remains that 
the Tartans will be making their initial appearance of the season in Pitts
burgh, and should find a goodly crowd of rooters to back them up in their 
first game, with what will probably be the best team they will be called upon 
to face this year. v*******
Wally Steffen is apparently one of the men who have the rare ability to 
be successful in several diversified endeavors at the same time. An article 
in a Chicago paper last week, relating the results of a poll of the Chicago 
Bar Association, upon the six Superior Court judges who are seeking reelection next year, states that ,in view of the rigid requirements necessary 
for the associations recommendation, but one, Walter P. Steffen, had received endorsement for re-electiom
The article mentions Judge Steffen as one of the younger members of 
the court, so it seems that, despite youth and his football interests, he has the ability to more than hold his own in his chosen profession.*******
Considerable agitation is being aroused in favor of granting varsity let
ters to members of the girls rifle team. This column will gladly print any 
letters containing information or arguments about the subject, in order to sound out campus opinion concerning it.
Intercollegiate Briefs
Alcron, OhioThe University of 
Akron delves, Intq its enrollment lists 
and finds, among other items, that 
there are more students by the name 
of Williams than any other one name, 
for the files reveal ten Williams, nine 
Millers, seven Smiths, seven Johnsons 
and six Thomsons. The reporters ar
ticles goes -on::
In the ranking of sur-names, Robert 
seems to be the most popular for men 
students, while Mary is the favorite 
of the women. Tally results reveal 29 
Roberts, as compared to 27 Williams, 
23 Johns and 19 Harolds. Twenty-six 
Marys take the lead over. 20 Ruths, 19 
Elizabeths, and IS each of Helens and 
Dorotliys.
Color is furnished the camus by 
Francis Brown, Clarence White, Paul 
Black, and if that isnt enough color,* 
there is a Clarence Dyer around.
General Motors is well represented 
by Winifred Dodge, Arthur Durant, 
Otis and Iona Maxwell, Thomas Mood 
and Edna Gardner. A few occupations 
listed among student monickers are 
Kenneth Baker, Sylvia Cook, Betty 
Barber, Harold Hunter, Jerome Tay
lor, Glen King, Lloyd Prince, Ada 
Mason, Edwin. Porter, George Trainer* 
and Thomas Shepard.
To increase our cosmopolitanism we 
have on the campus William German, 
Corinne France, Stanley Irish and 
Harmon Welch.
Again, did you ever Plant a Folwer? 
See a Savage? Stall a Dodge? Let 
a Stone Fall? Hunt a Fox or Wolf? 
Price a Rose? Close your . Lipps? 
(This applies to women only). Stitch 
your Socks? or Frye Fish???
No need of hunger with Louis Berry, 
Herbert Fish, Edward Rice and Rose 
Wine on hand Listening a few col
laborations we have: Cook-Baker,
Fish-Hunt Booth-Stall, Smart-Wise, 
ITall-Lodge, - Joy-PIope, Pi;ince-King, 
Bitter-Souers and Bell-Rang.
Cambridge, Mass.As reported in 
the Harvard Crimson here is what W. 
E. Pussyfoot Johnson, thinks about 
prohibition and the college man:
All this tallc about the young folks 
going to the dogs and drinking them
selves blind is pure nonsense. Colleges 
are apt to have a reputation fdr being 
wet because the shortcomings of a 
few students get into the apers as 
typical of all studenti!. If two or three 
college fellows get drunk and cause a 
fuss, the story can promptly be found 
in all the newspapers, but no mention 
is made of the 16,000 or 20,000 stu
dents who ostensibly do not drink.
Madison, Wis.Carl Sandburg is to. 
lecture again at the University of Wis^ 
consin. The article in the Daily Car
dinal describes hinrthus: As a poet 
of the streets and prairies, a man in 
whom the vigor, color "and enthusiasm 
of American life is gathered together 
and poured forth in passionate and 
joyous song, Mr. Sandburg has had a 
varied and interesting career, and is 
a thoroughly modern product of our 
national life. He has a colorful and 
interesting personality. His features, 
lean and lined with hardship and 
tenderness, and the abundant irongrey hair give a strangely fascinating 
effect. On the speaking platform he? 
is as informal and personal as though1 
were right in the midst of his 
audience.
pamphlets necessary to serve 50 de
partments. No two department* 
would deign to use the same books 
and no two teachers use the same 
ones at the same time. The library is 
made up of, several smaller units, an 
architecture library, a botany-zoology 
library, a chemistry library, an i 
gineering, a physics, a geology and a 
law library. Many collections are in
cluded in the library department.
Austin, Tex.  Interesting dating 
rules and methods of evading them 
are given in the publication of the 
Texas Agricultural and Mechanical 
College.
The largest number of girls who 
date comes from the Scottish Rite dor
mitory, where 325 girls live. A study 
of the register at this dormitory re
veals that an average.of about 100 
girls sign out for dates every ordinary 
night. Saturday and Sunday are ex
ceptional and are not included in 
these figures.
Eighty-five per cent of the dates are 
for 8 oclock. But they begin from any
time after supper and may begin as 
late as 9 ocloclc.
Anyone coming after 9 on a week 
day is frowned upon by the chaper
ons, who are stricter at the Scottish 
Rite dorm than anywhere else.
All dates are due in at 11. Most of 
them manage to make it. When 11 
is struck the lights are flashed off in 
the parlor for a minute to warn 
couples outside that the time has 
come.
Shortly after a chaeron takes her 
stand at the door with a book in her 
hand and looks threateningly out. If 
everyone is not in within a few min-, 
utes, the remaining girls are listed as 
late.
After the hour of 11:30 the door is 
locked' and a watchman admits the - 
revellers who arrive.
Any man appearing in hot weather 
without a tie and collar, or with his 
collar rolled back, is sure to be re
monstrated with, and the girl is often 
reproved later for keeping such low 
company. Lack of a coat is no crime, 
but the tie absent is absolutely de
praved, and no matter how athletic a 
mans neck is, it is indecent to expose 
an undue length of it, at Texas.
Columbus, Ohio.Mingling w/th the 
upper crust of the University 'made 
an automobile a necessity was the 
explanation given by Robert A. Lowe, 
a freshman at Ohio State University 
last year, wlien arraigned recently be
fore a criminal judge in Cleveland for 
stealing a car.
Lowe was sentenced 'to an indeter
minate period in the State Reforma
tory by the judge, who remarked: It 
is a poor commentary on American 
youth when a student is forced to 
steal an automobile to get along in 
college.
Emory University, Ga.Students at 
Emory University have pledged $20,- 
000 for a new artificial lake on their 
campus. When the pledges are paid, 
work will be begun. Two thousand 
dollars is yet to come in. While 
theres life
Austin. TexasThe University of 
Texas library requires nine miles of 
shelving for its 400,000 books and
Madison, Wis.The latest word on 
the question of wearing hats on the 
campus comes from Wisconsin.
"The fad of not wearing hats which 
it* so prevalent in tiie .university at 
all seasons is. not harmful, declared 
W. A. Mowry, head physician of the 
department of student health, in a
recent interview.
Personally I approve of the hatless fad. It is not to be condemned 
from a medical standpoint, in fair 
weather at least. I do not believe 
that it is necessarily beneficial, but it 
is c'onifortablei^lie declared, and add
ed tllat he never wears a hat.
Seattle, WashingtonThe business 
njanager of Columns, a University 
of Washington undergraduate periodi
cal, offered a five dollar Ben Wade K. 
P. Pipe for the man turning in the 
most subscriptionsbut a woman went 
amd won it! (
Washington, D. C.The President 
has done the universities a favor! 
After sanctioning Sweet Potato Week, 
Candy Week, Hello Week, Charge It 
To Dad Week, and the 759 other 
weeks which dot the year, he re
fused to issue a special sign of favor 
upon Education Week. What, has 
John been doing now?
Austin, TexasStudents at the Uni
versity of Texas here have a. tradi
tion which calls for a few minutes of 
organized yelling just before entering
the classrooms lor final examinations. 
The theory is that the yelling will pep 
the students up before the funeral, and 
that they will not; bo In a condition to
yell afterward.
They call her angle because she's 
no good on ourtli.Souwester.
! Plebe Rifle Team
Schedule of Matches
January 14, 1928
Delaware (Prone)University of Cincinnati (Prone)
, January 21
| West Virginia (Prone)
Virginia Polytechnic Institute 
(Prone)
Central High School, Washing
ton, D. C. (Prone)
University of Missouri (Prone) 
February 11, 1928 
Virginia Military Institute 
(Prone and Sitting) 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Prone, Sitting, Kneel
ing)
February 18
West Virginia (Prone and Sit
ting)
Delaware University (Prone and Kneeling)
Central High School (Proue) 
February 25 
Virginia Military Institute 
(Prone, Sitting and ivneeling) 
March 3, 1928 
Delaware University (Prone, 
Standing and Kneeling) 
Western High School, Washing
ton, D. C.\( Prone, Standing 
and Kneeling)
March 10 
University of Pennsylvania 
I (Prone, Kneeling and Stand- ing)
Georgetown University (Prone, 
Kneeling and Standing)
March 17 
West Virginia University (four positions)
March 24
Massachusetts Institute of Tech. 
(four positions)
March 30, 1928 
Virginia Poletechnic Institute 
(four positions)
University of Missouri (four po
sitions)
In the January Sale of
Intimate Apparel
A Feature of Particular Appeal 
to Dorm Dwellers
The Best Place to Shop After All
    ; ' y  /
QUILTED ROBES
$9.85 $12.85 $16.85 -
r
HE yummiest, warmest, most adorable 
robes. . . made of fine satin crepe or 
crepe de ch:ne . . . smartly and youth
fully styled. Presented in^a huge variety of 
boudoir shades . . pastels, high tones and dark 
colors . . . many with contrasting linings.
Some are trimmed with maribou, lace, con
trasting piping, applique, or hand painted de. signs . . . while even the most severely plain 
and practical ones have a look of luxury, borne 
thirty-five different models from which to select 
the most becoming.
Third Floor
RMOKUG DMCPK oMm

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1928
 fengi* j&rtan
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 ! Pnbllrihed one every week during the collcfte year by undertfTaduaten of Carnetile Inntltute of Technology. Entered In the PlttaburKh Pont, Office an necond-clann matter.
. ~ ~ EDITORIAL STAFFEditor-in-Chlef ..................Fenton Finn
.Managing Editor................Milton Cohen
News Editor..............Margaret Russell
.Athletic Editor.....................Fred Woods
Women Editor.......................Jean RoyAlumni Editor.................Herbert Grau
EXCHANGE EDITORS 
Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
RuBHell Bulllnger William Rose
A. E. Finhor E. Weaver
John Schnieder Meredith StumpHelen Rood Nathan Miller
Sara 13. Wondern 
JUNIOR EDITORS S. C. Ralston Harold Jacobson
Dorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS
II. L. Bunker, Jr. jna Hnnsell
IC. JaremiL jj. SchleBlngerT. Lip pert. j3 Kann
W. W. Hoy j  McAteer
cPark C Boyd.1. J. Boyle ^H. N. Melxner JfD0""'.1. Carpo R ramson
H. Levinson "Whltehllle
J. W. EaBon H. BarrH. Bootli A. M. Flslier
,M. ISchleB BWhiteN. Kline M. B. Maze
W. II. Worlanil C. II. Nelaon
W. H. Martaolt < F. Ackenhell
BUSINESS STAFF Business Manager.. .Shelby McMillion
Advertising Manager........J. II. SeibertAssistants____ .R. Wehrle, T. R. Zenk
CIRCULATION STAFF 
Circulation Manager. .Harold Kandell 
Assistants
G. Brahmst A. FrankJ. Roth A. Haynes
(G. C. Harbison C. E. Blass
G. Thompson S. BluestoneB. Wedner I. Levin
A. Teplltz S. Feigenbaum
M. Malinich J. P. Jones
R. W. Carter D. Ceville
OfficeRoom 12, InduntricH Building. OiTico IIourBMonday to ThurHdayH, 12:30-1:20 Paj>er made up Friday, 12 :'i0-6 :00.To Inxure publication on the nucccedlntr Tuewlay, new Itemn munb be In the ntudont pont office or Tartan Office before 4 :i$0 ThurB,day.After Office Hourn call Schenley 1490, iSchenley 984G, Schenley 9211.
THE WOMENS NEW PROJECT
The Carnegie co-eds are undertak
ing a large and difficult new project 
(this year in the way of a Womens 
Scholarship Committee, whose object 
is to raise all scholarship funds by 
'holding one huge theater benefit. 
Their success or failure depends as 
much on the co-operation given them 
;Yiy the student body as on the efforts 
of the women themselves.
Certainly the girls deserve all the 
encouragement and co-operation it Ms 
possible to give them. They.are at
tempting something which few stu* 
dont groups ovor have the ambition 
and courage to undertake. Usually 
largo alumni groups do Ibis sort of 
thing, expending an immense amount 
of time and labor on It, hut It remains 
for a student organization to make as 
great a success of It as more oxperienced pooplo have done. If any fur
ther reason for hearty co-operation 
from the student body Is nocessary, 
(he altrulsml of their cause should ontitle those women to a great deal of 
support, Tlujro Is no forco binding 
thorn to offer scholarships oach year, 
hut (hey realize the financial need of 
a large numbor of students, especially 
In a. technical school, and so direct 
their efforts, toward helping Ihoso fel
low students.
Of course the scholarship, idea Is 
not a now one by any moans. Many 
of the women's organizations on the 
campus have given scholarships for 
a number of years. The merit of the 
thing lies in the fact that a few far
sighted women have seen the advan
tage of combining scattered efforts 
into one worth-while project, to take 
the place of innumerable bridges, 
bake sales, rummage sales, etc., which 
are usually put over by small groups 
in small organizations, and which 
prove burdensome because of their 
number. Perhaps the project may 
have another less obvious advantage, 
that of binding even more closely to
gether the women of the two schools, 
by giving them something in common 
to work for.
Be tliat as it may, success will de
pend, in a large measure, on the re
sponse of the student body when the 
ticket selling campaign is launched. 
And much will depend on the alumni.
J. R.
RIFLE RECOGNITION
The question of awarding special 
insignia to girls for intercollegiate 
sports has tifeen arousing some dis
cussion on the campus recently. It 
does seem that, recognition of some 
sort should bo given the co-eds who 
ongago in rifle practice which is the 
only Intoreolloglato sport on our cam
pus.
There has grown up In the past few 
years a gradually Increasing aversion 
to Intoreolloglato athlot.lcs for girls. 
Tho larger colleges luivo abandoned 
them almost entirely. 6no of the 
principal reasons for this attitude of 
tho athletic authorities is that Inter
collegiate sports are not conducive to 
tho development, along athletic lines, 
or a large numbor of girls. The ten
dency in the old system was to lay 
stress upon promoting the progress 
of a small group of girls who corapris| 
ed the varsity squad, thus overlook
ing the essential benefits of doing the 
greatest good for the greatest num
ber. Another main objection to inter
collegiate sports for girls is the severe 
nervous and physical strain involved.
However, this does not alter the 
fact that the one Intercollegiate sport 
which remains for Carnegie girls 
should be given recognition. No other 
sport requires so great an amount of 
time and patient effort as rifle prac
tice. The rifle season lasts four times 
as long as the seasons for most of the 
other athletics. A Carnegie C is 
awarded for participation in a number 
of different inter-class sports during a 
period of three or four years, but since 
it is practically Impossible to become 
proficient at shooting and still find 
time and energy to devote to these 
sports, some special recognition Is 
needed, else there Is no incentive to 
remain on the rifle squad. An incen
tive to work for an intercollegiate 
sport such as this is even more essen
tial than for Inter-class spoils, for the 
former can bring honor to the school, 
while tho latter do not.
Of course, one of the main objec
tions to giving special credit for this 
activity is that, in so doing, the ath
letic department appears to approve a 
thing which, in spirit, they do not ap
prove. In other words, they are giv
ing a special award for an intercol
legiate sport when they do not sanc
tion intercollegiate sports. Yet if one 
intercollegiate sport is to be retained, 
a policy should be adopted which 
will make that sport a success and 
thus make it a credit to the college. 
An Intercollegiate sport should be 
treated as such and not as an interclass sport.
D. R.
SMOKE
Smoke! It curls and whirls. It 
comes from nowhere and goes no
where. How dreamily and langorous! 
Just any old way. It does not care. 
Every current or wind blows; every 
breath guides it. But it does not care. 
,So dreamy and unperturbed! How 
much I admire you. How I wish I 
were like you. I wish I were smoke, 
just plain smoke.
Today as I sat and watched smoke 
curling from a cigarette, I realized 
why it has fascinated me all my life. 
Many evenings I used to sit dreamily 
musing while watching smoke curling 
around me. And then I would become 
like the smoke, calm, langorous, and 
full of quiet emotion. Many have 
been the evenings that I have been 
troubled, and how soothing smoke has 
been to me!
But life Is not like smoke. It is 
such a turbulent and noisy thing, full 
of excitement, worry, work, motion 
and incessant noise. And why all this 
noise? How little we pause to wonder 
why. I often wonder why. Do we 
bury our thoughts and take work as 
our God? How can we run around 
making so much noise, doing good, so 
wo think, when we do not know for 
what roascJn, doing good, so wo think, 
when wo do not know for what reason 
wo are doing those things! We see 
mills and factories grinding out pro
ducts with murvolous efficiency as If 
efficloncy wore tho purpose of life. 
Wo hoar spoochos. We listen to lec
tures. But why? How little wo stop 
to realize what we are doing, and how 
little do we stop to bury ourselves in 
tho Internal structure of things so as 
to emerge with a dearer understand
ing of thorn, Perluiaps wo are hap
pier for not doing so.
As I look back, boro Is what 1 can 
recall. Until 1 reached tho ago of 12 
or 13 1 grew as a child should. 1 play
ed, laughed, sang, and was happy. The 
world was Immense to me. It was a 
huge playground for children, and 
parents wore to be tolerated as provid
ers and be lovod. 1 loved and feared 
God. .
I grew and read, and, as I came to 
understand things external, I became 
more and more mystified and horrifi
ed. I read and came to know the 
meaning of the theory of evolution. I 
came to know and understand the im
plications of the mechanistic of the 
world we live in and the people we 
live with. This drove thoughts of God 
out of my mind. However, as my 
thoughts matured, I began again to 
see where there was room for God. But 
God could not come back into my being 
to exercise and be felt as an integral 
of things. I could see where such a 
conception might fit in, but there were 
and are things that such a conception 
left unexplained.
I coould not see how a God could 
fashion a universe in which the con
trolling theme is the preying of the 
stronger upon the weaker. I could 
not account for the horrible bloody 
catastrophe which' occurred not so 
long ago and shook the whole world. 
I was told that Gods ways are inscrut
able, and not to be understood by us 
poor morals. I was told that we have 
only a little of God in us, so we can 
only partly understand him. But such 
reasoning Is merely superficial ratlonization and does not satisfy. It can
not.
I was then told that, perhaps, my 
conception of God was wrong. To mo, 
tho only true and valid conception I 
can have of God Is tho anthropomor
phic, and 1 am almost certain when I 
say that. It Is tho only true conception 
for the hmnan mind. The human 
mind cannot think in terms of abstrac
tions. It must have something con
crete to start with. I was told that 
God could represent Goodness, Nature, 
Force, Matter or some other such no
tion. If God represents such things, 
then how much are we nearer to the
THISTLEDOWN
Cardo Chardon Disenwolle.
Now that the high snorting exam 
period, with as many heads for each 
of us as we have exams, has waddled 
so close, merry hearted Thistledown 
wishes every one as many P. Q.s as 
he is sure of making himself. More 
than that, lugubrious reader, he comes 
to you with a new service, particularly 
adapted to your future needs, and 
offered for the first time in the history 
of education to Carnegie students, 
without the *co-operation of Punch, 
Life, Judge, or College Humor.
Thistledown nas written a handful 
of telegrams for you, telegrams adapt
ed to every possible scholastic contin
gency which may arise in the next 
three weeks. All you have to do is to 
cut fhe out, and paste me on the frater
nity house wall beside the telephone. 
And then, when the last long exam is 
over, and you have stopped swearing 
at the faculty, and you have quite 
made up your mind, all you wijll have 
to do, I repeat, is to take down the re
ceiver, and read me off. Here you 
are. Take your choice.
Suppose you do well. Then you can 
send one of these messages, collect: 
PROFS CONVALESCING FROM 
SHOCK WIRE WAGER GRAND 
BLOW UP TONIGHT. Be sure that 
the operator doesnt get it blow-out. 
If she does your parent may think 
your tele part of the U. S. weather re
port. If you dont like that heres an
other: POINTS WAY UP BANK BAL
ANCE WAY DOWN HELP HELP. 
Perhaps Id better warn you hot to 
send such a simple tele as this: COM
ING HOME FRIDAY ALL THRU 
WANT MINCE PIE AND PEANUTS. 
If you sent such a tele pa might think 
that youd flunked, or that youd had 
indigestion, or he might not think t\t 
all.
If you are one of the vast medioc
rity, your telo ought to be in a some
what milder vein. In this case, you 
will have to use your own judgment as 
to whether or not you shall send it 
collect. My advice is to do so, and to 
spend the money you will save on food. 
DID PRETTY WELL NO CHANGE 
FLUNK WHERE IS MY LAUNDRY? 
I submit that as a'little masterpiece.
Notice how it suggests the worst, and 
points out that you successfully 
avoided it. Notice how that one little 
word pretty suggests your effort to 
succeed, and those long sleepless 
hours you spent trying to warm your
self over the electric light. Notice 
how the subject is abruptly changed 
at the end, and how skillfully this will 
keep' you from being bothered by fur
ther embarrassing questions about 
these semi-annual nuisances, these ex
ams. Yes, thats the way to write a 
tele. Thats the way we used to be 
taught in good old English I. And 
heres another: HURRAH HURRAH 
PASSED ALL MY HURRAH ' HUR
RAH EXAMS HURRAH HURRAH.
If you flunk you will need to be very 
tactful. Send something like this and 
pay for it yourself: ON PRO BUT
DIDNT FLUNK THATS GOOD FOR 
ME or ALMOST KICKED OUT BUT 
PERSUADED PRESIDENT PUT ME 
ON PRO. If your case is even worse, 
here are these: DEAN WRITING 
YOU ABOUT ME BE CAREFUL 
WHAT YOU ANSWER or IF*FAC
ULTY KICKS ME OUT WHERE 
WILL YOU KICK ME or DROPPED 
OUT COME IMMEDIATELY TO 
PICK ME UP or PROFS SUGGEST 
TRANSFER NEED MONEY TO PAY 
TRANSFER COMPANY or FLUNKED 
AND BROKE SHED NO TEARS BUT 
WIRE CARFARE or FLUNKED 
WIRE WHETHER STAY HERE OR 
COME HOME TO GET THE AIR.
If thesearent enough stop me on the 
campus anytime. If I havent just 
such a tele on my lips as you want, 
Ill give you a Camel to smoke while 
Im thinking of one. Cheerio, then, 
and doiit forget, a flunk is no better 
than a flfty-two.
Dear Cardo: The reading public of 
the Tartan clamors for you. The edi
tors unanimously ask you to continue 
the colyum. Will you? Answer: Yes, 
with a vegetable bouquet for my pre
decessor
Dear Thistledown: My second cousin 
gave me a black handkerchief, a black 
bow tie, a black scarf, and some black 
socks for Christmas. What shall I do 
with them? Isa Plebe 31. Answer: 
Hold an auction.
THE ROAD TO XANADU
This work by John Livingston 
Lowes is both a labor of love and a 
profoundly scholarly bit of research. 
The latter characteristic need not de
ter the reader as the notes and refer
ences are well relegated to the endsection of the book for safe-keeping 
for him who is intent upon erudition, 
while the pleasure of the general" 
reader is no whit disturbed by stumb
ling over masses of foot notes.
This is a "study of the ways of the 
imaginationof the poet Coleridge. 
Two of the most original and pro
foundly imaginative works in English 
literature, THE RIME OF THE AN
CIENT MARINER and IvUBLA 
KHAN, are analyzed to their last
phrases by Lowes to give Illustration 
of the workings of the literary genius.
Professor Lowes has engaged in 
herculean labors to dig on the raw 
materials or sources of fact and fable 
upon which the poets mind worked. 
From this we learn how even the stuff 
of literature is imperishable, spring
ing out of the life of the times, and 
how the poets spirit weaves about 
this, spinning its products that be
come timeless. The note-book left 
by Coleridge is used as the "lead, 
for therein is the limbo of unborn 
poems, the toliu bohu of exhalations 
as the poet notes down the impres
sions received from his voracious 
reading.
This is then the charged electrical 
background of the poets mind, the
meaning of Life than we were before? 
I cannot continue to mislead myself 
with ways of thinking which make me 
feel good for the moment, but leave 
me cold in the end. If a person has 
a feeling for God, I can resptect and 
admire the person for such feeling, 
but I cannot sympathize with him.
So, I often wonder how other per
sons have solved this great problem 
of life. It seems to me that they go 
around rather happy. But when I 
question them, they reveal a shallow 
internal being. It seems to me that 
most people evade rather than solve 
this problem. And here is how they 
order their lives. They arise in the 
morning like so many automatons, go 
to their various vocations, come home 
at night tired and fuss over things 
which either ploaso or displease them, 
retire, and awaken next morning to 
repeat the same thing. Just like cogs 
in life's machinery, contributing to the 
noise of every day as they whirl 
through their dally tasks.
You say that I forget Love, Friend
ship and devotion as the actuating 
factors of life. I do not. I would like 
to know how love, for instance, makes 
life any more purposeful? To live for 
one another may make life more
meaningful, but it still leaves the 
great riddle of life unanswered.- When 
I love, it is because I cannQt help it. 
My organism demands full realization, 
so I love. But love is not the supreme 
purpose of life. It explains nothing. 
It just makes life more bearable. If 
we did not love and work, we would 
soon cease to exist. In other words, 
love and work are only means to an 
end, and the end is life.
And these are some of the things 
which bother me. Life is such a dis 
turbing riddle to me, full of sound 
and fury, signifying nothing. But 
smoke is different. Smoke does not 
worry or trouble itself over things 
with which it conies into contact. It 
does not make noise. So quiet, so 
purposeless!
Yes,, just Smoke. It curls and 
whirls. It comes from nowhere and 
goes nowhere. How' dreamy and lan
gorous! t Just any old way. It does 
not care. Every current of wind blows 
it; every breath guides it. But it does 
not care. So dreamy and unperturbed! 
How much I admire you. How I wish 
I were like you..........
I wish I were smoke, just plain
smoke..............
ANOTHER COLLEGE ROBOT.
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
Classes, quizzes, lectures, examina
tions, and gradesto many students 
and even faculty members these seem 
to embrace the meaning of higher 
education.
Few of us actually stop to Inquire 
and consider. We are content to ac
cept the world as it is, confident in 
the wisdom of things as they happen 
to be. And so the callow youth en
ters the portals of college and unsus
pecting works into this machinery 
of pedagogy. The ardent youthful in
structor most often, likewise, dedi
cates himself to the management and 
utilization ^of these devices which are 
calculated, to prod, guide and drag 
those .under his tutelage along the 
thorny path of knowledge.
In, the short breathing-spaces al
lowed between exams and gradestatisizing and roll-calling and in
quisitorial reviews, it has begun to 
appear that this machinery creaks 
and scrapes. The student is not pri
marily avid of knowledge, nor, often, 
is the instructor growing in mental 
stature in the practice of his profes
sion. Rather, the student is wrapped 
with his fellows in a community of in
terests based on athletic prowess, 
sartorial display, socializing and pri
vate peccadilloes. Beside this for
midable array of interests, the curri
culum shrinks in importance like a 
suit bought in a one-flight-up-save$10-dollar-store after the first rain.
The instructor is similarly apt to 
develop into an expert mechanic, 
skilled in applying the levers, the 
brakes and the intricacies of fact-ex
tracting much like the motorman who 
so skillfully and carefully directs his 
train along the crowded lanes of 
traffic.
The criticism implied here is doubt
lessly somewhat extravagant and ex
cessive and the first impulse would be 
to decry such opinions as alarmist and 
defeatist. They do, however,"seri
ously speakingrepresent a sharplyfelt tendency which renders uneasy 
and perturbed the/ heads that near 
professional ranks and aid in inter
preting the exultant antics of that 
genius newly-arrived in our midst 
the "collegiate.
At the University of Wisconsin an 
interesting experiment was started 
this fall. In the light of the preceding 
criticism levelled at American col
leges, Professor Meiklejohn was able 
to secure effective support toward the 
institution of an "experimental col
lege. The purposewe have it from 
Meiklejohns own lipsis to attempt 
to erect a student community upon in
tellectual bonds. Magnificent, daring 
courage, this! Will the dialectical 
blandishments of Plato or the varie
gated course of Athenian history ever 
be able to vie with the college "letter 
sprawled across ones chest or the 
thrill that comes from beating the 
drum in the college band as it wends 
its devious ways across the gridiron 
between halves?
The plan, as " now In experimental 
form, is to have a group of students 
who are to represent a cross-section 
of the student-body live together in 
one dormitory along with their fac
ulty. At once, the artificial schism 
between the two is lost. These are 
no classes nor lectures nor recita
tions nor grades nor examinations. 
The curriculum is not dissected like 
the carcass of an animal into its 
choice parts, thereby losing entirely 
the life and animating spirit of the 
whole. The purpose of education os
tensibly being to prepare the youth 
for an intelligent participation in an 
intelligible world, the subject of study 
becomes merely civilization." The 
motive is also to stimulate independ
ent and vigorously searching thought 
by means of discussion-groups. The 
subject selected for the initial experi
ment for the fresliman-group in Wis
consin Js Athenian civilization, no 
less. Papers are presented periodi
cally, also, and there are consulta
tions weekly with the instructor, or 
tutor. For once, candid frankness 
prevails, because the subject of study 
chosen is one of which the faculty ad
mit they know little more than the 
students. In this particular instance, 
professors of biology, mathematics 
and economics as well as those in 
literature and philosophy are assigned 
| to this faculty. For the sophomore 
year, nineteenth century Europe has 
been chosen as the subject of. study.
The actual topics of study may be 
disputed. They are chosen rather 
arbitrarily. But that would be to miss 
the point. The prime purpose is the 
brave effort to school a group of stu
dents into a liking for active, inde
pendent thought and the building of 
a community of interest about intel
lectual investigation.
Perhapsit is too much to hope 
this technique of pedagogy will de
velop trained minds who will not be 
such easy prey to .the dish-water sen
timentalism and dangerous power of 
our contemporary organs of public 
opinion and organization.
The problem  which, professor 
Meiklejohn admits is yet unsolvedIs 
that of the proper method of teaching 
; the crafts and the sciences. After 
the first two years of the experi
mental college, the student will, 
nevertheless, specialize in his studies 
because after all is said and done, 
each one must be prepared to do 
something well enough to justify his 
earning a living.
This is an inopportune time to write 
[in this strain. Exams are upon us 
as we all have learned from the 
' ominous warnings presented in the 
last issue. We shall keep an eagleeye cocked at the Utopian doings in 
Wisconsin where things always were 
rather queer. But here as yet the 
grade-book is at hand, and without 
the requisite credits, what chance is 
there after all of being eligible for ten
nis?!
deep well in which surge the ideas 
yearning for expression. We proceed, 
after peering into this rich reservoir, 
to examine the surging chaos of the 
unexpressed as it comes to light on 
the edge of the poets consciousness. 
On this penumbra of.^experience the 
poems take on living form. The poet 
awakens together with his recollec
tion of sleeping moods and meadow 
gales and frosty fields, memories of 
those obscure sensations which haunt 
the borderland of consciousness.
The architectonic concept of THE 
RIME OF THE ANCIENT MARINER 
is exhaustively detailed. It is after 
all, the epitome of the naively, scien
tific spirit of the voyagers of the 
eighteenth century which is scattered 
throughout this poem in the bizarre 
descriptions of caves of ice, courts of 
the sun, albatrosses, wefts and unfa
miliar sea-scapes. Then the. harrow
ing supernatural tale of .what happen
ed to an old navigator' in quest of 
incarnation on an autumn afternoon, 
or how the Wandering Jew and Cain 
together took possession of the astral 
body of an ancient mariner. * * * 
With the result that the broad bright 
sun peers through skeleton ribs, and 
the moon glitters in the stony eyes of 
the reanimated dead and the dance of 
the wan stars is a strange sight in 
the element * * *
The poem, Kubla Khan, is treated 
likewise as a series of dreams within 
dreams like a nest of oriental ivories, 
sphere within sphere.
Are you moved to deprecate this 
muck-raking in the poets mind as 
wholly inessential to the enjoyment 
of his works? Mr. Low'es has antic
ipated you so he declares: It is be
cause the worth of beauty is transcendently worth searching aboutand 
if we are rifling the urns where the 
dead bones of fact have long quietly 
rested, it is because the unquenchable 
spirit which gives beauty for ashes is 
these not wholly past finding out. 
THE ROAD TO XANADU is thus 
the road of the human spirit, and the 
symbol of quests which lend glory 
to our dust. Things fantastic as the 
dicing of spectres on skeleton-barlcs, 
and ugly as the slimy spawn of rot
ting seas, and strange as a star astray 
within the moon's bright tip, blend in 
its visition into patterns of newcreated beauty. The pieces in them
selves are not new. But is the work 
of the creator divine within them, 
the unique and lovely Form.
It is to fling aside the minutiate of 
the workaday world and the cares of 
the flesh and to ascend into rarer re
gions of pure thought.
The pale, blue flame of intellectual 
discussion does not flicker here. The 
eternal problems of men are revealed 
stark, abruptly close to one. It is as 
if one teetered on the edge of time 
and space and held life objectively at 
arm's length dissecting its essential 
trivialities and vanities.
The scene is laid in a tuberculosis 
sanatorium isolated in the Swiss 
Alps. To this place comes a Visitor. 
With the most hair-raising, creeping 
stealth the obtuse feeling of the place 
engulfs him until he, too, sinks into 
the clutches of the dread disease. The 
narrative is so keen that it is almost 
felt inwardly by thereader as the 
chilling ailing powers take control.
But a world is represented here at 
the institution. Personalities these 
figures remain but their petty affairs, 
passions and doings ring ridiculously 
futile here, as though some X-ray pen
etrated their souls.
As the bodies of these men wither 
and become enfeebled and desiccated, 
the eternal mind or soul seems to 
emerge brilliantly and courageously 
displayed. Abnormal physical state is 
given as the background against 
which are weighed the more remorse
lessly the problems of life and fate by 
Thomas Mann, the eminent German 
novelist.
N. M.
THE MAGIC MOUNTAIN
To read THE MAGIC MOUNTAIN 
is to career out of the flesh, no less.
RHODES SCHOLARSHIP GOES 
TO STUDENT AT TENNESSEE
T. Cecil Wray, a Senior in Commer
cial Engineering and an. active citizen 
of the campus was Carnegies entry 
in the competition for Rhodes Scholar
ship awards. He wTas appointed last 
fall by .President Baker for the con
test open to all higher schools of 
learning in the United States. The 
winner, a University of Tennessee 
student, has been given 3 years of 
study with pecuniary guarantee at 
Oxford University, England.
Columbus, Ohio  A Necessary 
Evil" is the term applied to intercol
legiate athletic radio broadcasting by 
athletic officials at Ohio State Univer
sity. While the broadcasting of foot
ball and basketball games is one way 
of losing spectators the officials say, 
it also is/the only means of keeping; 
alumni and friends of the university 
interested in the sports. So Ohio State 
contiues the broadcasting at a cost of 
about $100 per game.
