Inside
Calendar............................................................L12
Classified...............................................................11
Comics....................................................................L5
Diversions...............................................................LI
Living......................................................................LI
Forum........................................................................6
Sports......................................................................12
http://tartan.web.cmu.edu
Sports
Volleyball serves It up  see page 12
Diversions
The world of video games  see page LI
Adam Grossi/Tartan Art Staff
Forum
Abortion alternatives  see page 7
Volume 94, Issue 8Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 190625 October 1999
Students moved in rhythm in an Indian form of dance called Dandia last Saturday in the Rangos Ballroom.
$15,000
$10,000
New courses will seek to broaden education
By SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI
Tartan Staffwriter 
& ISH HARSHAWAT
Tartan News Editor
Two professors will soon use the money 
from a multidisciplinary fund for new 
courses in molecular modeling and infor
mation systems.
The funding was given out last sum
mer by Indira Nair, vice provost for Edu
cation, for proposals that had been re
ceived in June. The fund is part of the 
iniative set up by the strategic plan on 
broadening education.
David Sholl, professor of chemical en
gineering, will be teaching principles and 
Applications of Molecular Simulations 
next semester.
This course is intended to give an 
introduction to an area of computer mod
eling that has been developed by chem
ists, physicists, and engineers, said Sholl. 
Each different group of the scientific com
munity brings different ideas and lan
guage, so an important part of the course 
will hopefully be to bring in students from 
various different disciplines and get them 
to interact.
David Kaufer, the head of the English 
Department, will be teaching Funda
mentals of Information Systems next 
semester. This will be the first time the 
course is taught. It will be a course 
targeted towards sophomores interested 
in pursuing majors in information deci
sion systems.
This course is for students who are still 
trying to explore, compare and reflect on 
their current status in their major, said 
Kaufer. It is primarily a survey course to
3
New BHA director guides students
By JENNIFER RESICK
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Indira Nair, vice provost for Education, has called for more multidisciplinary courses.
Maurides said her objective is to pro
vide a home for her students, a place 
they can come to for support and direcPatriciaMaurides has been appointed tion. My primary goal is to create a 
the first Director of the Bachelor of Huculture for the BHA/BSA. This includes 
manities and Arts (BHA) and Bachelor a stronger visual presence. She said 
of Science and Arts (BSA) programs, she hopes to provide this through social 
This position.was newly created to prointeraction and generating a budget for 
vide a home for the students enrolled in students to attend conferences. She also 
these cross-disciplinary curricula. wants to offer her students a place to
touch base and to offer a liaison be
tween schools.
The BHA degree has been operating 
at CMU for several years. It allows 
students to select one major from H&SS 
and one major from CFA, which com
bine into one specialized degree. Like
wise, the Bachelor of Science and Arts 
degree, which will be offered starting 
Please see DIRECTOR, page 3
$5,000
MIT Cornell Stanford U of Chicago Rochester Northwestern
A damGrosri /TtndSnd df Gof snTirans -I-c eTGGran uTdndSa lgd JGSESsri NamGrosrs
- Increased tuition for reluming studente
Justin Suissa/Tartan Assistant Art Editor
Cohon lays out long-term plansOfficials crackdown on piracy
By SARA STILLE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Seventy-three Carnegie Mellon 
students lost in-room access to the 
campus network last Monday when 
Computing Services, along with Stu
dent Affairs, completed a random 
search of over 250 computers, look
ing for copyright violations.
On the previous Friday afternoon, 
John Lerchey, the distributed work
station services coordinator for Com
puting Services, who also heads the 
team in charge of network security 
incidents and network integrity, con
tacted Paul Fowler, the associate 
dean of Student Affairs, about tak
ing a random look at the network. 
With Fowlers support, Lerchey and 
two other Computing Services em
ployees began to manually search 
for copyrighted material, including 
MP3 music files, cartoon strips, mov
ies, and software.
To their surprise, they found that 
over 30 percent of the selected com
puters were in violation of federal 
and local laws as well as well as 
CMUs Computing Code of Ethics 
and network connection guidelines. 
Monday afternoon, Lerchey informed 
the affected students by email, say
ing that although Computing Ser
vices wouldnt report the violation to 
legal authorities, students would be 
disconnected from the network until 
the end of the semester.
On Saturday, Lerchey sent out 
another email containing text from 
the November issue of The Cursor, 
Computing Servicess newsletter. 
The article said that while similar 
searches have occurred over the past
two or three years, they have been 
smaller and targeted more towards 
specific complaints or highly traf
ficked sites. Computing Services 
has, with some regularity, looked 
at the network statistics to find 
spikes of activity and large traffic 
hits most likely to be associated 
with illegal materials. They also 
receive tips from other students 
browsing the network neighbor
hood. Externally, Carnegie Mellon 
has been targeted for about three 
years by the Recording Industry 
Association of America (RIAA), 
pertaining to sites on the schools 
network containing copyrighted 
sound recordings, including one 
site found with over 400 recording 
files. In an article by Rafer Guzman 
printed in the Wall Street Journal 
in January 1998, Hilary Rosen, 
the president and CEO of the RIAA, 
said that the reality is that when 
hundreds of thousands of users 
have the ability to access music for 
free via the Web, there is the po
tential for economic harm.
The RIAA works to monitor the 
Internet for sites that offer copy
righted sound files and also works 
with law enforcement in cases of 
violations. They are currently tar
geting nine other universities, in
cluding Rice University, 
University of Evansville, and 
Cornell University.
One student at Cornell received 
a sentence of 40 hours of commu
nity service when the RIAA discov
ered his Web site contained copy
righted material. Jeffrey Levy, a 
senior at the University of Oregon, 
Please see CRACKDOWN, page 3
Tuition and Fees for Academic Year 1999-2000 Carnegie Mellon vs. Top Competitors
WhrGovr eSbErndnSG uTdndSa B pPjM*ww
THE TARTAN
By ALEX NEUSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Tuesday, Carnegie Mellon Uni
versity President Jared L. Cohon pre
sented the Universitys long-term Stra
tegic Plan and financial information at 
the Faculty Senate Meeting. Among the 
topics raised was the reason behind the 
11.7% tuition increase for the incoming 
Fall 2000 freshman class.
The strategic plan provides a frame
work for establishing priorities and allocating and focusing resources for the fu
ture, said Jeffrey Bolton, Vice President 
for Business and Planning. This was a 
very participatory process including fac
ulty, students, and alumni.
Cohon started by outlining the goals 
and strategies explained in the Strategic 
Plan, including the four strategic areas of 
leadership, which are information and 
communication technology; environmen
tal science, engineering and policy; bio
technology and health policy; and fine 
arts and humanities.
However, Cohon spent the majority of his 
presentation speaking about the schools fi
nancial situation.
This is a relatively new institution. Our 
alumni base is therefore a lot smaller. And 
in some respects, our focus has only been in 
the last 30 years been on [revenue], said 
Bolton. According to a visual aid in Cohons 
presentation, Carnegie Mellon University 
has an endowment of approximately 92 thou
sand dollars per student, compared with the 
average of schools with which Carnegie MellPlease see PLAN, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  25 October 1999
tt
China takes a step to end communism
SARRAN, France (AP)Vis
iting Chinese President Jiang 
Zemin said his country would 
move step by step toward de
mocracy with an eye to main
taining the nations stability, a 
spokesman for the French presidency said Sunday.
Jiang later said that China 
intends to ratify the nuclear 
weapons test ban treaty, re
jected by the U.S. Senate ear
lier this month.
France also announced a hot 
linebetween Paris and Beijing.
Jiang explained his approach 
to democracy during three hours 
of talks Saturday evening with 
French President Jacques 
Chirac, who hosted the Chinese 
leader at his personal estate in 
the Correze region, in the heart 
of France, on the second day of a 
five-day visit to France.
The first two days were billed 
as a personal visit, with the 
state visit starting later Sun
day when Jiang, on a two-week 
foreign tour that began in Brit
ain, arrived in Paris.
On Sunday, he enjoyed the 
pleasures of the French coun
tryside, dancing to accordion 
music with French first lady 
Bernadette Chirac at a local fair 
in the town of Chaumeil.
The night before, at Chiracs 
Chateau Bity, more serious 
matters were on the agenda.
Chirac voiced his concern 
about respect for democracy and 
political and religious freedoms, 
said Catherine Colonna, his 
spokeswoman.
Jiang in turn expressed his 
wash for his country to make 
progress step by step in this 
direction (toward democracy) 
without putting into question 
the stability of an ensemble of 
more than a million inhabit
ants, Colonna said.
On the question of Chineseoccupied Tibet, the two men dis
cussed the conditions of a dia
logue between Chinese au
thorities and the Dalai Lama.
Colonna described the talks 
as deep, free, and frank and 
said that Jiang remarked that 
the conversation was the deep
est he has had with a foreign 
leader on human rights.
Chirac has come under se
vere criticism from Chinese 
dissidents, human rights 
groups, and some French poli
ticians for putting diplomacy 
aside and inviting Jiang to his 
personal country estate. It was 
the first time such an invita
tion was extended to a visiting 
foreign leader.
Chirac contends that 
dialogue is the best way to 
advance democrac}7.
China and France on Sunday 
announced a hotline between 
their two nations  a direct, 
secure telephone line perma
nently open, Colonna said. 
France currently has such lines 
with Washington and Moscow, 
which can be used at a moments 
notice to discuss major political 
or economic developments.
The two leaders have also 
struck some business deals. Af
ter a lunch in Lyon on Satur
day, Chirac announced that 
China had placed a $2.5 billion 
order for 28 Airbus jets.
Jiang also said Sunday that 
China wants to ratify the 
nuclear weapons test ban treaty 
to help permit to create a more 
peaceful world, Colonna said.
Our objective is to obtain 
the ratification of this treaty, 
Colonna quoted the Chinese 
leader as saying during break
fast. Chinas parliament has 
already made an initial ex
amination of a ratification 
project, he added.
Chirac had expressed his 
consternation at the U.S. 
Senates Oct. 13 refusal to ratify 
the treaty, and Jiang had the 
same reaction, Colonna said.
Bush reads his 
personal letters
COLLEGE STATION, Texas (U-WIRE)/ 
The Batillion  Ranging from the poignant 
to the personal and on to the historical, the 
letters former President George Bush read 
to a standing-room only audience last night, 
covered many of the personal and profes
sional highlights of his life.
The crowd of the 600-seat auditorium gath
ered to hear Bush discuss his latest book, All 
the Best, a collection of some of his old letters 
and diary entries Bush said would serve as 
his autobiography.
The first letters he read were addressed to 
his mother when he was serving as one of the 
youngest aviators in the Navy during World 
War II at age 18. He wrote that he was not 
afraid of death, only the sorrow it would 
bring others.
In this war, everyone was united, and 
that kind of expression was typical of kids 
who wanted to serve, Bush said. Bushs 
voice wavered as he read a letter he wrote in 
1944 to the mother of a Navy roommate who 
was missing in action. We learned what it 
was like to lose friends, he said.
Other letters he read spoke of his love for 
then Barbara Pierce, his wife, and of his 
decision to move his young family to Texas 
and try his luck in the oil industry. Some 
letters were deeply personal, like one he 
wrote to a friend not long after his young 
daughter had died of leukemia.
We still miss our Robyn, Bush said. Bar 
and I still remember the beauty and charm 
of our little girl. Bush also touched on his 
extensive political career that began in Con
gress and culminated in the White House. In 
particular, Bush spoke of the difficult time 
during the Watergate scandal when he was 
chairman of the Republican Party.
Bob Strausse [Democratic chairman] said 
my job was like making love to a gorilla; you 
dont stop until the gorilla wants to, Bush 
said. Thats how I felt.
The letters he read-from his time as chair 
revealed both an admiration and a growing 
disillusionment with President Richard 
Nixon. Bush capped his hour long speech 
with some letters he wrote during the most 
difficult time of his presidency, including 
one he wrote to Chinese leader Deng 
Xiouping following the 1989 Tiananmen 
Square massacre.
Bush said relations between the two coun
tries were tense and he had been unable to 
talk to Deng by telephone, so he wrote his old 
friend a letter that dealt both with Chinas
harsh crackdown against protesters and of 
the need to maintain U.S.-China relations. 
Deng, who had known Bush since his days as 
ambassador to China, responded immedi
ately and secret diplomatic contacts resumed.
Personal diplomacy is important, because 
youre less apt to have two ships pass in the 
night through lack of understanding if you 
know each other, Bush said.
NYU Professor 
heads INTERPOL
NEWYORK, Ne w Y ork (U -WIRE )/Washington Square News  Ronald K. Noble, 
who is on leave from his post as a NYU 
School of Law professor, a former U.S. Trea
sury Undersecretary and U.S. Justice De
partment official, has been selected to be 
the next Secretary General of the Interna
tional Criminal Police Organization 
(INTERPOL).
Noble will be the first non-European to 
head the organization.
While not an international police force, 
INTERPOL has coordinated cooperation 
between member states law enforcement 
agencies since 1923. INTERPOL does not 
actually investigate cases, but it plays a 
vital role in supplying criminal informa
tion to the national police forces of its 
member states. Member states currently 
communicate primarily through an inde
pendent email network.
Iii 1997 1.8 million messages
were exchanged.
While representatives from developing 
countries have served on the staff of 
INTERPOLs General Secretariat, the per
manent administrative body of the organiza
tion, statistics released by INTERPOL show 
that leadership posts have been held pre
dominantly by Western Europeans 
and Americans.
Noble has an extensive law enforcement 
background, having held high-ranking 
posts with the Treasury and 
Justice departments.
While serving as the Treasury 
departments first Undersecretary for En
forcement from 1994 to 1996, he was re
sponsible for supervising the U.S. Secret 
Service, the U.S. Customs Service, the Bu
reau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, and 
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Net
work. He also established himself as an 
expert on international money laundering 
while serving as president of the G-7s 26- 
nation Financial Action Task Force and on 
the INTERPOL Executive Committee.
Cest la vie: how 
to uncork bubbly
REIMS, France (AP)  The fancy French 
way to open champagne is with a saber. Or, if 
your regimental sword is not handy, with a 
heavy kitchen knife.
Slide the back of the blade smartly down 
the neck, striking the glass around the cork. 
With luck, the glass breaks in a clean circle, 
the cork sails across the room, and bubbles 
foam out of the neck.
But there is an easier way.
Remove the wire and grasp the cork with 
one hand, using a towel to avoid cuts from the 
metal disk. With the other hand, rotate the 
bottle slowly to ease the cork out. Turn the 
bottle, not the cork. As the cork emerges, 
press it down to control the escaping gas.
The right glass is important. A famous 
picture shows Marilyn Monroe sipping cham
pagne from a wide-mouthed stemmed affair. 
Wrong, wrong, wrong.
A flute is the standard glass, but most 
experts prefer a tulip shape, which concen
trates flavor under the nose.
Champagne does not stay bubbly for long 
after it is opened. Some people swear by a 
silver spoon down the neck. Airtight tops 
gain more time, but they also trap air inside 
the bottle.
The best method, champagne lovers assert, 
is to drink it up. All of it.
Rome says no to 
sex shops in Y2K
ROME, Italy (AP)  Rome on Saturday 
banned the opening of new sex shops during 
the 2000 Holy Year, forbidding them in the 
historic city center and along major pilgrim 
routes in the city.
The restriction also covers existing shops 
that sell sexual paraphernalia without the 
proper license. Rome expects more than 20 
million visitors next year, which the 
Roman Catholic Church has proclaimed a 
Holy Year.
The ban, which takes effect Monday, is to 
stay in place through April 2001.
Enrico Gasbarra, chairman of the city 
governments commerce agency, said the pro
hibition was ordered in the interest of ethics 
and taste.
It also has a retroactive usefulness in that, 
aside from specifically reprimanding sex 
shops, it stops those which try and bend the 
rules and actually are licensed for, say, a 
clothing shop, Gasbarra said.Mothers suicide: Columbine High still reels months after shootings
DENVER, Colorado (AP)  A 
security videotape of the first mo
ments of the Columbine 
massacre is broadcast nation
wide. A student is arrested for 
making fresh threats. A 
surviving students mother 
commits suicide.
Six months after a dozen stu
dents and a teacher were killed 
in the shooting attack, after
shocks continue to assail the Col
umbine community, and many 
wonder if it will ever end.
The latest emotional assault 
occurred Friday when the mother 
of one of the most gravely injured 
students walked into an 
Englewood pawn shop, asked to 
see a gun, loaded it when the
clerks back was turned, and 
killed herself.
We thought it was all over 
and it started all over again, 
said Angie Amaro, whose 15- 
year-old daughter, Crystal, at
tends Columbine. This is an
other victim of Columbine. A 
tragedy like the Columbine at
tack can cause feelings of help
lessness and fresh waves of grief 
to take hold about six months 
later, psychologists say.
This is just another layer of 
tragedy for the people of Colum
bine to have to deal with, said 
John Eachon, vice president of 
Access and Extended Services, 
whose counselors have worked with 
students in the wake of the attack.
Counselors are telling parents 
and students they need to con
nect with friends, family, and the 
faith community ,lEachon said.
It was around lunchtime 
April 20 when students Eric 
Harris, 18, and Dylan Klebold, 
17, scattered gunfire and 
bombs at the suburban high 
school, killing 13 and injuring 
about 26 before they 
committed suicide.
The worst school shooting in 
U.S. history drew together griefstricken Littleton-area residents. 
They comforted each other and 
volunteered to help the victims 
families. In the passing months, 
however, the stark reality of the 
massacre has surfaced again and
again. Earlier this month, CBSTV was criticized by some resi
dents and Columbine families 
after it broadcast a brief segment 
of the security camera videotape 
that showed the opening mo
ments of the attack.
A 17-year-old student was ar
rested last week for allegedly 
threatening to finish the job 
begun by the student gunmen.
And Friday, Carla June 
Hochhalter committed suicide.
It should have been a better 
time for the family. Her daugh
ter, 17-year-old Anne Marie, 
had recently moved her legs 
for the first time since 
the attack. The family was 
preparing to move into a new
home that was equipped for Miss 
Hochhalters wheelchair.
Connie Michalik, whose son 
Richard Castaldo also was in
jured last spring, said she thought 
the family had finally turned a 
comer emotionally.
We were all depressed and 
devastated ... she was no differ
ent from us, Michalik said. I 
thought she was better, especially 
when Anne Marie moved her legs 
for the first time last week.
But Michalik admitted she, too, 
has struggled with emotions be
cause of her childs injuries. 
There was a time where I 
thought I had nothing to live for. 
I know what she went through, 
she said.
Steve Cohn, whose 15-year-old 
son, Aaron, survived the library 
attack, said, I just cant take it. 
Thats my feeling. I cant believe 
someone killed themselves over 
those idiots. Her daughter pulled 
through a lot. Its been terrible 
for all of us.
Cohn and his son have been to 
counseling, but the sessions have 
been of little help to Aaron. 
Until he opens up, theres 
nothing we can do, Steve 
Cohn said.
The stress is eroding his sense 
of safety, too. I drive by the school 
and Im looking behind every tree. 
I feel like a cop. I want to prevent 
it before it happens again, 
he said.
Four-Day Forecast
TuesdayClear/partly cloudy 
Hi 60 
Lo 32
Wednesday
ThursdayPartly cloudy
FridayPartly cloudy 
Hi 62 
Lo 40
Carnegie Almanac
from National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, October 25, 
1949 The Student Council wrote 
a letter to The Tartan urging stu
dents not to deface the property of 
schools whose sports teams play 
Carnegie Tech.
These groups have visited the 
rival school prior to the game 
and have done permanent dam
age to the buildings and school 
property... Regardless of what 
the activities of other schools 
may be, let us keep our school 
spirit high but our actions on a 
constructive rather than de
structive basis.
25 YEARS AGO, October 29, 
1974  A search committee for 
a new Dean of H&SS was formed. 
The committee was chaired by 
history teacher Peter Stearns 
because he is new and there
fore unbiased.
Stearns said My personal view 
is that there be more emphasis of 
the social sciences. No specific 
mandate has been set in looking 
for a dean. A possible mandate to 
redefine curriculum of the college 
may occur, but we wont ignore 
the current strengths of H&SS.
The committee induces non
voting student Vicky Stein, who 
was quoted as saying, As long as 
I can say what I want, I dont 
mind not voting. I feel in no way 
thats made me a token member.
10 YEARS AGO, October 24, 
1989  Carnegie Mellon alum
nus John Locke was arrested 
for allegedly altering expired 
Copicards that could have de
frauded the University of 
over $200,000.
Copicards are magnetically en
coded cards which allow
cardholders to prepay for a fixed 
amount of photocopies by libraryowner copy machines.
Senior John Frazzini was dis
covered using a copicard which 
registered over 90,000 copies. He 
later named Locke as his sup
plier. Both were Sigma Tau 
Gamma brothers.
FIVE YEARS AGO, October 
31, 1994  According to Assis
tant Vice-President of Planning 
and Budget Jeff Bolton, various . 
departments on campus collected 
data on how to improve the regis
tration process, including mak
ing it possible for students to reg
ister online.
There is a great deal of inter
est for some sort of online regis
tration, said Bolton.
Various concerns related to this 
initiative included possible secu
rity problems, lack of funding, 
and the possibility that students 
would be too anxious to use the 
online system and would not go 
to their advisors for advice on 
their scheduling.
ONE YEAR AGO, October 26, 
1998 Awareness of new drugs 
like Rohypnol had grown on cam
pus, aided by fliers and other 
public awareness initiatives. 
Campus officals suspected that 
over the month the use of 
memory-loss drugs like roofies 
had occurred at CMU parties. 
These drugs, such as roofies, are 
illegal in the United States amd 
are considered date-rape dugs 
because of their effects on memory 
and consciousness.
Compiled by 
ALEX NEUSTEIN

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  25 October 19993
Computing Services sweeps campus network
CRACKDOWN, from page 1
was recently convicted of distributing 
thousands of pirated computer pro
grams, movies, and MP3s online. Net
work engineers at the university noticed 
an unusually high volume of traffic at 
his site and, when they discovered it 
contained illegal files, university offi
cials notified the U.S. Attorneys office. 
Levy is scheduled to be sentenced on 
November 2 and faces up to three years 
in prison and a $250,000 fine. Where the 
infringing activity is for commercial ad
vantage or private financial gain, sound 
recording copyright violations can be 
punishable by up to five years in prison 
and $250,000 in fines. Repeat offenders 
can be imprisoned for up to 10 years.
Fowler stressed that while Student 
Affairs and Computing Services dont go 
onto the network with the intention of 
finding violators, when contacted by the 
RIAA or other individuals they cant just 
turn their heads and deny the problem.
Computing Services is actually shield
ing students from much greater harm,
he said. Fowler has met with over 30 of 
the students disconnected this week. 
Most students are concerned with the 
process taken and by interpretations of 
our policies.
Many students, including Doug 
Houston, a senior computer science 
major, have protested infringement 
upon their privacy and rights as stu
dents. They point to the Computing 
Code of Ethics, which clearly states, 
Every member of Carnegie Mellon has 
two basic rights: privacy and a fair 
share of resources. It is unethical for 
any other person to violate these 
rights..... Only files which a user has 
explicitly made public should be con
sidered open for general access. 
While several students have won
dered how Computing Services entered 
their files even when they were 
passworded, Tracy Futhey, the vice 
provost of Computing Services, said, 
We arent trying to crack into peoples 
systems....We are only looking.at bla
tantly obvious passwords.
The only computers accessed on Mon
day were those that were either 
unpassworded or protected by obvious 
passwords such as mp3, those that 
contained "readme files making the 
passwords readily available, and those 
with readme files indicating that the 
password could be obtained upon re
quest. These were all considered to be 
unprotected and open for public use 
against University policy.
The incident spurred discussion on 
bboards such as cmu.misc.market.
On Thursday, David Monsees, a se
nior industrial management major, 
posted to the bboard: Where the prob
lem lies is not in the intention of these 
policies, but in the manner in which they 
are communicated and executed. Most 
of the campus is totally unaware of these 
policies, so they catch many people by 
surprise.... If an institution is put in 
such a situation where it must enforce 
its rules on unknowing subjects it must 
do so in a considerate, compassionate, 
and just manner.
In an email to the affected students, 
Fowler said, While I have received many 
complaints regarding lack of notifica
tion or a formal warning, every student 
agrees to abide by the polices outlined in 
the Residence Hall and Dedicated Re
mote Access Network Connection Guide
lines when he/she submits the on-line 
Student Data Outlet Activation Form. 
You were warned and were provided 
information on copyright laws and soft
ware piracy.... Given the continual noti
fication of violations, mainly from the 
RIAA, Computing Services could no 
longer ignore the rampant distribution 
of copyrighted material and exercised 
its authority to review machines.
According to Futhey and Fowler, the 
main concern is now continued educa
tion and prevention, so that actions like 
this wont have to be taken again. A 
raising awareness campaign is now ex
tremely important, she said.
Fowler said he is pleased so far with 
the discussion the event has created. I 
couldnt have hoped for a better out
come. The entire campus is now talking 
about policies and violations. I dont 
believe anything else we could have done 
would have created this kind of discus
sion. Fowler has worked with the RIAA 
to create Sound Byting, a campaign de
signed to protect music on the Internet, 
and has had it distributed to Student 
Life and the Computing Skills Work
shop classes in hopes of increasing edu
cation on this topic.
Next Wednesday, October 27, Student 
Affairs and Computing Services will be 
offering a session giving the background 
that led to the network crackdown, 
clarifying University policies, and 
discussing unresolved student 
issues. Students attending the 
session will then be allowed to turn 
in a one-page summary of why 
their activity was in violation of 
policy in order to regain network access 
on November 14 instead of at the end of 
the semester.
[The Wall Street Journal contributed 
to this article.]
New courses will 
cater to students
COURSES, from page 1
make an informed decision about 
the track they wish to pursue.
This course is unique because 
professors from the Philosophy, 
Statistics, English, and Social 
and Decision Sciences Depart
ments will jointly teach it. 
Kufer and faculty from these 
other departments worked for 
about a month on a proposal to 
receive funding for planning and 
teaching the course.
By virtue of taking the 
course, students will have a 
much better idea of where they 
stand in the program, said 
Kufer. It will be a team-taught 
course to give students a broad 
exposure to the various tracks 
that are offered with the ex
panded information decisions 
systems major.
In addition, four other 
multidisciplinary courses will 
be implemented by Fall or 
Spring of 2000. The strategic 
task force called for 
multidisciplinary courses in 
education and in total received 
15 proposals from faculty for 
courses needing additional ma
terials for the course or the hir
ing of graduate students.
According to Nair, CMU has 
traditionally considered itself 
an interdisciplinary institution 
based on a problem-solving ap
proach. Here students from 
various disciplines are brought 
in to solve a specific problem.
The new multidisciplinary 
courses are designed to 
steer this type of educa
tion in a new direction.
Now the focus is the stu
dent rather than the prob
lem, she said. Students will 
now see how different disci
plines complement [and con
flict] with each other.
In addition to the 
multidisciplinary courses, 
the task force called for 
community-based courses, 
and received six propos
als, four of which will be 
funded. In these courses, 
students assess and solve 
problems within the com
munity. An example of this 
is the broadening of a cur
rent architecture design 
program called Urban 
Lab, in which students fix 
urban problems. The 
course will broaden at a 
university-wide level.
Another such course that 
currently exists is Com
puter Science in the Com
munity. The course has stu
dents work to provide 
solutions for non-profit 
organizations according 
to the organizations 
needs. According to 
Nair, the materials and 
methods from this course 
will be used as an example 
for other communitybased courses.
Cohon describes financial situation
PLAN, from page 1
on competes, 248 thousand dollars 
per student.
According to Bolton, the Univer
sity has three projects designed to 
raise revenue. The first is an expan
sion of software engineering for li
cense to corporations and other priCohon said in his presentation.
[Our endowment] is very small 
compared to our competitors, 
said Bolton. If you.get a student 
accepted to MIT and CMU, they 
do not decide based on the price of 
the schools. We feel the need to 
invest as much as we can for the
vate institutions. Some examples of total experience. 
this include the Lycos search engine 
and the Cyrus email system.
Software licensing presents a 
tremendous source of revenue, 
said Bolton.
Another source revenue is a GSIA 
educational partnership with 
Unext.com, a developer of course con
tent for distance Internet-based edu
cation for adults. According to Bolton,
Carnegie Mellon sells course syllabi 
and content to Unext.com.
The third, and most controversial, 
initiative to raise revenue has been
Brian Smith/Tartan Special Projects Manager 
President Cohon provided an update of the strategic 
plan last Tuesday at the Faculty Senate meeting.
an 11.7% tuition increase for next 
years incoming class. This comes 
from the fact that we need money, year 2000, wrote Kates.
But there are others who feel 
that this decision lowers the di
versity of the student body and 
quality of the school. According to 
senior English major Jesse Kates, 
in a statistical analysis entitled 
How Carnegie Mellon s 2000 Tu
ition Increase Affects Students in 
Different Economic Brackets, that 
was prepared for a public interest 
class, lower-income students are 
hit harder by the increase than 
mid-to-upper income students.
Using this figure as an esti
mate, Carnegie 
Mellons 11.7% 
tuition in
crease trans
lates into a 
4.2% increase 
in net tuition 
for low-income 
students, or an 
increase in net 
price (which 
also includes 
room and
board, fees, etc) 
of about $990. 
This means 
that enroll
ment of low-in
come students at CMU will de
crease by a striking 11.9% in the
XRRy ,aiSfbran xoGCrn Do/Tr JrG .nTiran
Justin Suissa/Tartan Assistant Art Editor 
CMUs endowment value per student is below many of its competitors.
Bolton says that the increase 
will have no effect on financial 
aid. The fact is that we are more 
diverse than many of our top com
petitors. 65 percent of our stu
dents receive need-based finan
cial aid. In most other schools of 
our caliber only 25-30 percent 
receive such aid. Were still com
mitted to the financial aid policy. 
Other points raised by Cohon 
included the increased selectiv
ity of the University through 
the years, and the raise in test 
scores and GPA of its incoming 
classes. However, the yield
(number of accepted students 
who attend) has been at a pla
teau of about 23%. When youre 
in the ballpark of established 
schools like Cornell and MIT, a 
strong yield is something that 
will come after a lot of work, 
said Bolton.
In general, however, the out
look on the Strategic Plan has 
been positive. We have a very 
exciting future and every 
indication of a tremendous 
student population, a bright 
future, and a great plan, 
said Bolton.Director steers BHA program
DIRECTOR, from page 1
in 2000, will allow students who 
have interests in science and 
art to receive a combined de
gree. [These are] programs for 
students with multi-talents. 
[They have] an affiliation with 
both schools, but they are their 
own entities, said Maurides.
Programs like these two 
are unique among universities, 
and allow students like 
senior Mary Tremonte to pursue 
a degree in art and creative 
writing through BHA. I didnt 
want to give up art or 
creative writing because 
what I want to do eventually, 
write and illustrate books, 
involves both things, and this 
is the only school where I could do 
that, she said. Another BHA 
senior, Megan Franke, is also 
able to study areas of two differ
ent colleges, majoring in voice 
and professional writing. I 
didnt want to perform for a liv
ing, but I still wanted to be involved in fine arts, she said. 
Along with Frankes endeavors 
in BHA, she is taking classes at 
the Heinz School, which will al
low her to earn a Masters of Arts 
Management degree in only five 
years instead of six.
Maurides, likewise, comes 
from a cross-disciplinary back
ground. She enters the position 
with a BS in biology from the 
University of South Carolina 
and an MFA from Carnegie 
Mellon. They have always 
worked together for me, biology 
and art, especially photography 
and electronic media, said 
Maurides. Her interest in these 
two very different fields led her 
to design and teach two inter
disciplinary courses, including 
The Art of Biology and The Bi
ology of Art for the Carnegie 
Mellon Art Department. Out
side of the classroom, Maurides 
has also been working as an 
assistant director on a project 
called Grey Matters, The Brain
Movie. This is a collaboration 
between cognitive scientists, 
musicians, and artists with the 
result being a multi-media plan
etarium show premiering at.the 
Carnegie Science Center in 
January of 2000.
Although Maurides has been 
appointed the new director of 
BHA/BSA, she will continue 
her work in cross-disciplinary 
studies. She plans to teach the 
interdisciplinary BHA/BSA semi
nar course that will be offered 
in fall of 2000, and plans to de
velop it with students and other 
faculty members. An element 
of the course is to provide 
a formal, vehicle to support 
cross-disciplinary artistic 
dialogue and expression, 
said Maurides.
BHA and BSA students 
will be uniquely prepared for 
the new millennium. It 
is a time of integrated 
disciplines and collaborations, 
said Maurides.
Something to 
smile about!
$
TFFTH$ 10,1 rf 111CLEANING
* includes Biiewing X-Rays, Exam iind Consultation 
with Dr. 1-fart. New patients only. ($80 Value)
Corrections/Clarifications...
In last weeks sports article Cross country impresses in UAA warmup, the line that says that 
CMU won against Bucknell, Penn State, and Malone and lost to Duquesne, Pitt, and Robert 
Moms should state that CMU beat Duquesne, Pitt, and Robert Morrison, and lost to Bucknell, 
Penn State, and Malone.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-inChief Kevin Babbitt at x8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.____________________________________
Ask about our CM 
Dental Plan!
Gentle Airjet Dentist 
Prompt Emergency Car 
Personaliz
! 
' ^VERSTTY
John W. Hart D.D.S.
y  Private Practice Dentist *
:  State-of-the-Art Sterilization 
;d and Comfortable
Call 681-8011
10% Courtesy for CMU Students and Faculty 
Take the CMU shuttle to our front door  200 North Craig Street

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  25 October 1999
Carnegie Mellon in BriefMeeting will be held for planning
President Jared L. Cohon recently in
vited all members of the University com
munity to attend a town hall meeting 
about the campus master plan, which 
will specify future architectural devel
opments for the campus. At the meet
ing, which will take place on Tuesday, 
November 2 from 7 to 9 pm in McConomy Auditorium, background informa
tion about the master planning process 
will be presented. Specifically, Univer
sity Architect Paul Tellers will talk about 
the campuss architectural history and 
representatives from the firm Ayers/ 
Saint/Gross will speak about campus 
planning in general.
The master plan is scheduled to be 
completed next spring and will serve as 
a guide for future growth of the campus. 
Future building sites, green space en
hancement plans, and parking issues 
are among the topics to be included in 
the plan.Software reveals baseball secrets
CMU computer scientist Raul ValdesPerez has recently developed a software 
program that can identify unique aspects 
of the more than 2,000 teams that have 
played major league baseball since 1876. 
The program uses a new way to sort 
through data to identify what made a 
particular team uniquely good or uniquely 
bad. Essentially, the system compares a 
user-entered team and year to all other 
teams in the database and identifies the 
most concise statement of differences. 
The system provides an answer to the 
users question in 10 seconds or less.
Pitt library offers extended service
Members of the University commu
nity may now borrow items from most of 
the University of Pittsburgh libraries
for a four-week loan period and can 
make use of one four-week renewal per 
item. Previously, CMU users loaning 
privileges were restricted to half that 
time period, with two-week loans and 
one two-week renewal per item. In 
order to make use of the four week loan 
at University of Pittsburgh libraries, 
users must obtain a Special Borrower 
card by going to the Hillman Library 
lending desk.
GSIA sponsors new biz center
GSIA and PricewaterhouseCoopers 
are co-sponsoring the new Center for 
E-Business Innovation, which will be 
co-directed by GSIA professors Sun
der Kekre and Kannan Srinivasan. 
The center will work on a model to 
help organizations assess their e-busi
ness capabilities. It will support re
search by leading academic experts in 
this area, as well as industry leaders. 
In addition, the center will also take 
advantage of interdisciplinary 
resources at the School of 
Computer Science, the Software 
Engineering Institute, and the 
Heinz School.
New center will address security
The CyberSecurity Center, or 
CyberSec, has recently been estab
lished by the Carnegie Mellon 
Research Institute to provide 
computer security solutions to busi
nesses. The center intends 
to provide organizations with 
proactive solutions to help 
prevent possible network security 
breaches that could damage their 
operations. The center is directed 
by Roy Thetford, who is certified by the 
International Information Systems 
Security Certification Consortium.
Compiled by 
SETHMANDEL
Crime and Incident Report
10/9 FIRE ALARJH 11:19 amCam
pus Police and a city fire engine re
sponded to Donner Hall for a fire alarm. 
An RA in the building stated that a 
resident had burned some toast. Cam
pus Police located the room of said resi
dent, and found a small toaster oven 
with a piece of bread that was black
ened. However, there was no fire and 
only a small amount of smoke. The head 
of the fire crew asked if toaster ovens in 
residence halls are legal, and stated 
that they are a serious fire hazard.
10/11 DISORDERLY CONDUCT
1:14 am  Campus Police received a 
call reporting that two males were be
hind Roberts Hall, setting the hill on 
fire. Upon Campus Polices arrival on 
the scene, they observed one male stand
ing near the railroad tracks, and a sec
ond male standing behind a small tree. 
The two people were identified as CMU 
students, and stated that they had been 
on the balcony of Roberts Hall, where 
they lit an 8 oz. container of cream 
cheese on fire and tossed it onto the 
hillside. They then came down to the 
hillside, just in case the hill caught on 
fire. Both students were issued CMU 
internal citations for Disorderly Con
duct, because their actions served no 
legitimate purpose.
10/12 ATTEMPTED THEFX 8:46 
amA14 lb whole ham was discovered 
inside alocker in the University Centers 
womens locker room. The ham was val
ued at $33.18, and was discarded after 
discovery.
10/14 SIMPLE POSSESSION 12:14 
am  Campus Police responded to 
Donner Hall for a reported smell of mari
juana. Upon their arrival, the officers 
detected an odor of marijuana, and 
knocked on the door from which it was 
emanating. The officers announced that 
everyone in the room was under citation 
arrest, and asked where the marijuana 
was located. A resident of the room gave 
the officers a baggie of grassy vegetable 
matter, aluminum foil with a hashish
like substance inside, and two packs of 
rolling papers, all of which were confis
cated. Two of the four people in the room
were found to have red eyes, smelled of 
marijuana, and admitted to smoking 
marijuana in the room. They were is
sued CMU internal citations for Simple 
Possession. The other two students 
present stated that they were merely 
studying, and neither smelled of mari
juana nor had red eyes. Both were is
sued CMU internal citations for Disor
derly Conduct.
10/14 THEFT} 2:05 pm  A staff 
member reported to Campus Police that 
two flags were missing from the railing 
overlooking KinCommons in the Uni
versity Center. The country flags were 
about 2' x 4" It is unknown what coun
tries the flags represented.
10/16 INCIDENT} 2:26 pm  A stu
dent flagged down a Campus Police car, 
to report that he had been harassed by a 
homeless person at the University Cen
ter Bus Stop on Forbes Avenue. The 
student stated that as he sat down at the 
bus stop, the man had told him, Get the 
f-k out of here. They argued until the 
student observed the police car approach. 
The homeless person had no official form 
of identification, but verbally gave Cam
pus Police a home address. He was in
structed to leave the area, and told that, 
if he returned, he would be arrested.
10/18 DRIVING COMPLAINT^ 6:10 
pm  A faculty member called Campus 
Police to complain about a catering 
driver. He stated that he Was driving on 
the Bureau of Mines Road, and near 
Smith Hall; he stopped to letia van pull 
out of a parking space. The catering van 
came up behind him, honking its horn. 
Later, he stopped to let a student cross 
the street, and the van almost collided 
with him. The van in question, and a 
similar one, were presently parked out
side of Scaife Hall, and a Campus Police 
officer asked the driver of the second van 
what the name of the first driver was. 
The second driver replied, Why should 
I tell you his name? When the first 
driver returned, the Police officer in
formed him of the complaint against 
him. The driver stated that when he 
made his first delivery to Scaife Hall, he 
had been given the wrong food, and had
to hurry back to get the correct order. He 
admitted that he was blowing his horn 
to try to get the traffic in front of him to 
move faster, and apologized for any inconvenience that he caused.
10/20 INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT,
10:20 amCampus Police was informed 
that a worker on the Posner roof had 
fallen approximately 10 feet onto 2x2' 
concrete slabs on the east side of the 
building. He was presently lying in the 
position in which he fell, was conscious 
and alert, and was complaining of pain 
in his lower back. The worker stated 
that he was working on the scaffolding, 
and believes he took a wrong step, 
causing him to fall. After completing 
their assessment, Pittsburgh Medics and 
Rescue placed the worker on a backboard, 
lifted him into a stoke basket, and car
ried him to the west side of the roof. The 
crane used for construction on the build
ing was utilized to remove the worker 
from the roof, and transport him to the 
Medics on the ground, who transported 
him to a hospital.
10/21 MEDICAL, 10:45 pm - A fe
male student in Doherty Apartments 
contacted EMS for treatment of a head 
injury. She had dropped a comb on the 
floor, and in retrieving it, she struck 
her head on the corner of the door lock 
located near the doorjamb. The stu
dent refused transportation to a medi
cal facility.
 Campus Chief of Police James 
Lapaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tartan staff 
see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the 
News Editor, and the staffwriter typing 
the report.
 All personal names of complainants, 
victims, suspects, and fraternities are 
omitted from the printed report. Ethnic 
descriptions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
 Not every incident that occurs ap
pears in the report.
Compiled by 
KRISTINE ANDREASSEN
CARE?
then
VOT i.
Student Senate Elections
Oct. 26, 27, 28Who's running?
THE ARNN
Neil Lareau (npl)
Alexander Vangaalen (av)
TC?
Ashley Gross (algross)Erin Fitzgerald (erinf) Benjamin Stover (bstover) Mikhail Sandler (mikhails)
VTN
Ashish N. Basuray (abasuray) Mary Konsinski (mkk2)
Thomas P. Purdy (tpp)
Dan Amin (damin)Ashley Campbell (awc2) Peter Caprariello (pac) Christopher Knorr (knorr) William Guzy (guzy)Nick Naviglia (nmn)
Akilesh Rajan (arajan)ses
Carl Meister (meister+) Daniel Shaykevich (dan2)
NCE
Monica Malhotra (monicam) Steven Y. Ma (sym)
Got questions? Ask them.
AT TIAA-CREF, 
LOW EXPENSES ARE 
A HIGH PRIORITY.
All financial companies charge 
operating fees and expenses - 
some more than others. Of course, the 
lower the expenses you pay, the better. 
That way, more of your money goes 
where it should  toward building a 
comfortable future.
As the largest retirement system in 
the world,1 we have among the lowest 
expenses in the insurance and mutual 
fund industries.2
In fact, TIAA-CREFs 0.35% average 
fund expenses are a fraction of the 
expense charges of comparable funds.5 
Its one reason why Morningstar says, 
"TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the
financial services industry.
A focus on your future
Of course, expenses are only one factor 
to consider when you make an invest
ment decision. Morningstar also noted 
our commitment to "consumer education, 
service" and solid investment perfor
mance." Because that can make a differ
ence in the long run, too.
At TIAA-CREF, we believe people 
would like to spend more in retirement, 
not on their retirement company. Today, 
over two million people count on that 
approach to help them build financial 
security. So can you.
To. find out more - give us 
a call or visit our website
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.5
1 800 842-2776
www.tiaa-cref.org
* IIimiI un S7M) billion in ael under management. ^ SlMiW f'P.w'j ln.-aran,e Raluy IWV; and Upper An.ikicaJ Servite, Ine.. Dinil.v.''.n.iliri\ilIhla IWV(<|uanrrl_v) \lh niw./.-Ur VjmH.- Anauilky//j/.\ W.WIW). Oli he h.352 variatile annuiiii^iraclurd tiv MomingMar. th jvrragc fund had uiialfco unliining annua! cjpcnx". ol'ltWu pluiuiv inaurarne esperi*? of I.VhV TIM-CRHIf e*pcn*yare ulijctl io hngc and .ire nix guaranleed furlhc luture. lax performative i> noguaranlee <il future roull. TIAA-CKKK Indi^Jual and InvtiiutHioal Servite divi fibule CRKK tenilitale and intere! injjic f|AA Rea) libale Aitount.. I"i ir nuirr limpide infomutiun. intluding e harge' and expei\W>. e.ili I K0Q,84!ir'/7?h. c.xiemion 5S09. liir propn.tu>c. Read ihem tarefu! ly beforcMiujnvcit or wnd money.

---------------------------------------------------

.com .com .com .com .com .com .corn .com .com .corn .com
.com .com .com -com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com
 . V *, -   (I :  ' ; -  j) V . . \ 1. 1 'V|  1  - - . . '
.com .com .com .eom .com .com .com .com .com .com .con*
.com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com
l:
.corn .com .com .com .com .com -.corn .com .com con .com
.com .com .com .com ..com .com .com .corn .com .corn .com .com
.com .com .com: .com .com .corn .com .com .com .com .corn
com .corn .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .corn .com
. j
Why work for one .com, when you can work for hundreds?
.com .com .com .Com .com .com com .com .com .com .com .com
.com .com .corn .com .com .com .corn .corn .corn .com .com
com .com .com .com .com .corn .com .com com .com .com .corn
.com .com .com .corn .com .corn .com .com com .com .com
com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com
J
.com .com .com.com .com .corn .com .com .com .com .com
.corn xom .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .corn .com
.com .com .com .com .com .com .corn .com .com .com . com
.corn .com .com .com .com com .com .corn .com .com .corn .com
com .corn .com .com .com .com .com .corn .corn .com .com
corn .com .com .com .com .com .com .corn .com .com .com .com
.com .com .cm .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com
You havent gotten this far by limiting  
your possibilities. And if you want to 
go even farther, consider the possibilities 
at Ernst & Young. You'll have access to some of the most 
.corn .corn . com .com .com .com .com sophisticated tools in the technology industry and work with
some of the companies that help define it. Log on. www.ey.com
.corn .com com .com .com .com .com .com xom .corn .con .com
.com .com .com .com .com .com .com .corn
CONSULTING  TAX  ASSURANCESomet hinmg
Insi desSped ds ortrDe.

---------------------------------------------------

FORI!
Carnegie Mellon University25 October 1999
CMU should pull plug 
on inferior service
Since the beginning of the se
mester, CampusLink, Telecoms 
recent replacement for AT&Ts 
ACUS service, has exhibited seri
ous flaws that are causing incon
venience and even loss of service 
to many students. By offering stu
dents poor service, uncompetitive 
pricing, and, worst of all, few al
ternatives, Telecom has failed in 
its obligation to students. Until 
CampusLink corrects the prob. lems plaguing it, students should 
boycott use of the CampusLink 
service by buying phone cards, 
charging their calls to calling card 
services, or switching to the new 
Tartan Telecom service which be
came available late last week.
One major problem with 
CampusLink is that a significant 
number of students received their 
bills late, without a correspond
ing extension in payment dead
line. Several students who had 
reached CampusLinks $150 call 
limit received no notification that 
they had done so. No bill had 
arrived, and no hint of it was 
given when trying to place a call 
other than the automated your 
call could not be completed as 
dialed message. These students 
were denied service without warn
ing and without explanation.
New issues came to light 
through numerous criticizing 
posts on the emu.misc.market 
bboard. For example, the late 
charge on CampusLink bills is 
$20, which seems exploitative 
compared to many other services. 
CampusLinks rate of 12 cents 
per minute, while cheaper than 
ACUS, is well above what com
mercial providers charge.
Students living in University 
Housing have no choice of long
distance providers. Normally, 
when faced with such unaccept
able service and pricing, a sub
scriber could simply switch provid
ers. Students on campus are even 
unable to use alternate carriers. 
Given that our campuss long-dis
tance provider gains a lot of forced 
subscribers (many of whom make 
a lot of long-distance and interna
tional calls), one would think that 
campus service providers would be 
eager to offer decent rates. Only 
recently has a second competitor 
entered the field: Tartan Telecom, 
provided by the College Telephone 
Network, offers an 8.9-cent-perminute rate for calls made on cam
pus. While the lower rate is still 
not comparable to that offered by 
commercial phone providers, it is a 
step in the right direction.
An even better solution for stu
dents would be found if Telecom 
conducted a competitive-bidding 
search for a low-cost provider. 
Telecom could also provide stu
dents with a choice of providers to 
suit their individual needs, since 
some offer better international 
rates, and others offer better do
mestic long-distance rates.
The current service is unaccept
able, and since students can only 
switch providers if Telecom does, 
the campus community is stuck 
with it. In the meantime, students 
should boycott all use of the 
CampusLink services and either 
switch to Tartan Telecom or use 
calling cards. The cost of keeping 
in touch with home should not be 
something CMU students have to 
worry about.
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Editor
Letters to the Editor
Student protests 
Murphys laws
Editor:
In the Oct. 18th is
sue of The Tartan 
[Janet Reno comes to 
CMU], I had the good 
fortune of reading
Letter to 
the Editor
about Murphys latest law: [Consider
ing] 10 or 15 years ago, many of the 
crimes that young people commit with 
guns [today] would have [resulted in] 
bloody noses if they did not have access 
to [the] weapons. Its unfortunate that 
Mayor Tom Murphy did not formulate 
the law sooner. In the laws application, 
perhaps David Koresh and his followers 
would have merely woken up in a jail cell 
the morning after their party got crashed 
on April 19,1993  all with dried blood 
on their noses of course, and maybe a 
mean hangover to boot.
Wait a minute, what am I thinking? 
The BATF cannot be considered young 
people. Alas, I suppose that setting a 
good example for the children is not in 
their job description either. Therefore 
Americas own Secret Police must not be 
applicable to this law. On the bright
side, Toms crony [Janet Reno] sitting 
two seats to his right (see picture) wont 
have to feel guilty about any future 
Wacos, should another incident like that 
arise. Thats a good thing, because poor 
Janet has enough to worry about, what 
with all the hoopla about Chinagate, 
Filegate, Travelgate, and Etcgate.
Maybe instead, Mr. Murphy would 
like to inform Jodi Dotts about his latest 
discovery. She was the mother of a 15- 
year-old girl in Clearfield County, Pa., 
the latter of whom got strung up in tree 
with a clothesline, and was beaten to 
death with a rock by two punks. I won
der what type of crime might have taken 
the place of that bludgeoning, 10 or 15 
years ago. Remember, there were fewer 
electric clothes dryers back then. Con
sidering recent advances in technology, 
people back then probably had more 
uses for rocks than they do now, so 
invariably there were many more such 
dangerous implements lying around at 
the time.
How counterintuitive things are some
times, in they way they work out. Per
haps Murphys law needs to be general
ized, to include such unanticipated situ
ations. I can see Tom working hard on 
the problem now, in between all those 
dreadful wine and cheese parties that he
must attend. I hope that he comes up 
with a solution soon  the children are 
at stake!
In light of rocks, and all those other 
instruments of destruction that a child 
might haye access to, I suppose that 
after finding Murphys general law, Tom 
Murphy might want to consider sup
porting some legislation in its favor, 
possibly by hiring a few more taxpayerfunded lobbyists and sending them to 
Harrisburg. I mean, it worked for get
ting the stadium loan, right? Those 
silly taxpayers. How do they know what 
to do with their money? And look at all of 
those laws already on the books. Would 
it hurt so bad to tack on a few more? How 
about this piece of legislation: a five-day 
waiting period on hammers. Or maybe 
he can take the judicial route instead: by 
initiating a class-action suit against 
manufacturers of baseball bats, for ex
ample. Toms friend Kevin McClatchey 
might not like that one, though. Regard
less, someone has to fight for the chil
dren. If Tom wont deter those evil corpo
rations from inflicting their wrath on 
our nations youth, then who will?
Ray Jensen 
Doctoral Student 
ChemistryCity must keep bettertrack of issued permits U.S. Navy should yield to protestors
The city of Pittsburgh has, on 
more than one occasion, fouled up 
the issuing of permits to CMUs 
Sweepstakes committee to close 
nearby roads for Buggy freeroll 
practice. Most recently, the city 
gave permits to CMU for Buggy 
and to the University of Pitts
burgh for a Homecoming event at 
the same time on Saturday, Octo
ber 2, forcing practice to be cut 
short that morning. Such actions 
reflect poorly on city administra
tors in the eyes of those who deal 
with them, and also have a nega
tive impact on a CMU tradition 
dating back to the 1920s.
Sweepstakes pays the city for a 
permit to close off Frew Street 
and roads in Schenley Park so 
organizations can have freeroll 
practice on Saturday and Sunday 
mornings from 7-9 am. These per
mits are applied for well in ad
vance of the start of the season in 
order to get as many weekends of 
practice in as possible. There are 
only a limited number of weeks of 
good weather before ice and snow 
make it impossible to practice; 
rain during the warmer weather 
can cut even farther into the num
ber of days they have to practice. 
If the drivers dont get enough 
experience with the course, race 
day can be dangerous because of 
the potential for accidents. There
fore, its critical that as many prac
tice rolls as possible are made.
Pitt applied for a permit for Oc
tober 2 for their event after one
had already been granted to CMU 
for Buggy. However, city adminis
trators failed to note that the roads 
were already scheduled for use and 
issued a permit to Pitt anyway. 
The conflict was not discovered 
until the day before, and only quick 
action by the Sweepstakes com
mittee and CMUs administration 
prevented what could have been a 
safety disasterthousands of Pittaffiliated people suddenly running 
onto the course while buggies were 
still rolling. Despite having re
quested and received the permits 
earlier, Sweepstakes had to cut 
practice short by half an hour. A 
similar incident occurred around 
the same time last year, and the 
city refused to revoke permits that 
had been issued to Pitt even though 
they knew of the oversight.
The city administrations disor
ganization with respect to the is
suing of permits is unprofessional 
and needs to be addressed. It is 
also an injustice to those students 
who put in numerous hours of 
hard work in the early morning 
preparing buggies and sweeping 
the roads only to be told that morn
ing that they will not be rolling 
during the allotted time.
Carnival and Sweepstakes are 
CMU traditions that the entire 
University, as well as alumni and 
Pittsburgh residents, look forward 
to. Its shameful  not to mention 
dangerous  to have such a 
longstanding tradition interfered 
with due to errors by the city.
Christopher May
When learning to use a sword as a 
weapon, the first lesson you learn is that 
you should stick the sharp end into the 
other person. Since a military is the 
weapon of a nation, one would think that 
this principle applies syllogistically to 
the military. That is, you would think 
that the military, as the sword arm of 
the U.S., ought not to kill the civilians 
they were charged to protect. Appar
ently, the Pentagon has yet to learn this 
important lesson.
At the end of World War II, the U.S. 
Navy acquired two thirds of the 20-milelong island of Vieques, which lies off the 
coast of Puerto Rico. It used the western 
part of this land as a munitions dump. 
The eastern part is used as a live fire 
practice bombing range, leaving the 
9,300 civilians with the center of the 
island. These people have been com
plaining for years about high cancer 
rates, the militarys use of fisheries off 
limits to their fishing fleet, its use of
napalm, and shaking windows. Who is 
going to say that these are invalid re
quests? They are merely demanding their 
mental and physical safety as well as 
economic prosperity.
The Navy disagrees. Despite admit
ting to having dropped napalm in 1993 
and violating federal law by mistakenly 
firing bullets tipped with depleted ura
nium, they still insist on keeping the 
firing range. The last straw came when 
civilian security guard David Sanes 
Rodriguez was killed in a bombing acci
dent on April 19. Protesters organized 
and occupied the firing range with five 
tent camps. The Navy has halted bomb
ing for now, but looks to Clinton to evict 
the protesters. The protesters have 
leaned on the president to kick the navy 
off Vieques permanently. Some fear that 
widespread civil disobedience or even 
violence could occur if the president does 
not get rid of the Navy.
Puerto Ricans are American citizens. 
How can the United States Navy endan
ger the health and welfarp of Ameri
cans? Isnt the Navy a part of the De
partment of Defense? They; are paid to 
defend Americans, not attack their 
health and even their lives. Some might 
say that the Navy has a right to practice,
but are we to treat Puerto Ricans like 
lesser people because they are not a 
state? If the U.S. Navy bought out a 
third of Staten Island and started bomb
ing, you can bet something would hap
pen. Fifty years would not go by before 
that issue was addressed. We are send
ing a message of heartless imperialism 
with this controversy. How can we be a 
nation for the people if a majority can 
force a minority to endure daily trials of 
this sort?
There is something seriously flawed 
in the logic of a general who thinks it is 
okay to drop napalm on an island inhab
ited by civilians. There is something 
wrong with the idea that one death and 
a host of problems in fifty years is insig
nificant enough to warrant a continua
tion of bombing. There is something ter
ribly wrong about a large number of 
people hundreds of miles away forcing 
9,000 of their fellow citizens to endure 
this. In a democracy, the only way that 
the Navy should have been allowed on 
the island is if the citizens had voted to 
allow them on. 
Chris May is a first-year student in the 
SHS program. He welcomes all respon
sible replies to his column.Corporate power encourages violence
Neil Babra
This years International 
Festival began with a key
note address by Arun 
Gandhi on his lifelong pas
sion for nonviolence. Mr. 
Gandhi spoke of how we 
must be aware of passive 
violence, the harming of 
nature and humanity 
through ignorance, because
it can be just as, if not more, 
pernicious than direct physi
cal violence. He implored the 
audience to internalize the 
ideals of nonviolence to help 
bring about a more peaceful 
world. Its a noble goal  a 
world with mans spiritual
ity in balance with his mate
rial needs, thus free of inhu
manity. But the truth is, vio
lence as such is institutional
ized by our economic system.
We can no longer help be
ing enormously violent, sim
ply because were consumers
in American society, a soci
ety full of multinational cor
porations; If youre wearing 
Nike shoes, you are support
ing child sweatshop labor: 
Its cool to wear the Nike 
swoosh, its fun to watch the 
sponsored teams and Tiger 
Woods  but in the end 
youre cheering for the tor
ture of Vietnamese children. 
Buying anything at Kmart 
aids one of our country s larg
est gun suppliers. Buying 
food at any outlet that sells 
meat products most probably
involves the vicious torture of 
animals even before they are 
killed. You may be selective in 
your consumption to avoid abet
ting such terror, though it has 
become more difficult, and will 
eventually be impossible in our 
age of incessant corporate merg
ers. However, your tax dollars 
sustain the coffers of an everexpanding military-industrial 
complex, which, although it is 
not currently fighting a war, up
holds a constant war economy.
Consider such insidious actions 
Please see VIOLENCE, page 7

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  25 October 1999Abortion legislation increases womens options
T*aTim Lo
The cloud of controversy sur
rounding abortion has been 
tainted with a severe misunder
standing of the basic issue. De
spite the commotion over rights 
and liberties, abortion is not, and 
has never been, about choice; it is 
about a sense of hopelessness  
a lack of choice.
Several weeks ago, Senator 
Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania 
joined with Representative Jo
seph Pitts of Pennsylvania and 
Congresswoman Mary Bono of 
California to propose a piece of 
legislation that would dispense 
substantial funding to the states
to support programs providing 
pregnant women with alterna
tives to abortion. The proposal of 
this bill brings out what is quint
essential in the debate over abor
tion: More often then not, women 
have abortions because they feel 
they dont have a choice. The only 
remedy that remains, of course, 
is to give them options.
The Woman and Childrens 
Resources Act (WCRA) does just 
that. Santorums bill would es
tablish a formula grant program 
totaling $85 million per fiscal year 
to provide assistance to women 
through such entities as adop
tion services, maternity homes, 
and crisis pregnancy centers. 
Though these programs only be
gin to scratch the surface of the 
social and economic problems our 
nation faces, Santorum has pio
neered a new effort to give relief have abortions because of the disto mothers of unwanted fetuses.
Abortion exists because of the 
socioeconomic pressures sur
rounding pregnant women. No
ruptions a child may bring in 
perceived social status, financial 
management, or family planning. 
It is these very issues that should 
not be factors in the decision 
to terminate a pregnancy. 
However, because our govern
ment has been unsuccessful 
in remedying the problems 
with welfare and adoption 
agencies, these factors be
come very real in the decision 
to abort.
The solution to the dilemma 
does not lie solely in the 
amount of public funding, but 
rather in how the funds are 
spent. A poll by the Brookings 
Sam Lind/Tartan Art Staff Institute showed that over 85 
one conceives a child and then percent ofthose surveyed thought 
aborts it to make a point or to that the welfare system was 
exercise a right. Rather, women spending money the wrong way,
compared to only 4 percent who 
believed the system was spend
ing too much money. Spending 
the money on improving the effi
ciency and quality of adoption 
agencies and womens health 
care, as the WCRA proposes, is 
what the American public wants.
From Roe v. Wade in the 1970s 
to the barrage of legislation 
dealing with the protection of 
rights, whether they be of the 
mother or of the fetus, America 
has constantly avoided the soul 
of the issue: Provide the choices 
laid out in the WCRA, and 
the great moral controversy of 
this decade will be null in the 
new millennium.
Tim Lo is a sophomore public 
policy major. He welcomes all re
sponsible replies to his column.Reform elections by removing moneys influence
Adam Retchless
Last week, a bill proposed by presiden
tial hopeful Senator John McCain, di
rectly attacking the role of money in elec
tions, failed to become law. While the bill 
had the worthwhile goal of eliminating 
the political influence of campaign con
tributions, it took a dangerous and un
workable path to that goal. The director 
of the ACLUs national office, Laura W. 
Murphy, made a good case before Con
gress for why attempts to limit campaign 
contributions threaten democracy and 
will be gutted by legal challenges based 
upon the right to free speech. As an alter
native, she proposed tax-financed subsi
dies of campaigns. However, this approach 
is equally flawed. Democracy is threat
ened by any attempt by politicians to 
regulate how easily citizens can partici
pate in political discussion. Instead of 
allowing politicians and their bureau
crats to micromanage the election activi
ties of American citizens, we need to look 
for ways to reform the electoral system to 
minimize that influence.
One of the main reasons that cam
paigns are expensive is that candidates 
often have to seek out voters and shove
broadcast advertising. To address this 
problem, an electoral system would have 
to give voters better reasons to gather 
information themselves and not to vote if 
they arent willing to actively gather infor
mation. One way of doing so would be to 
provide more choices on election day, so 
that each voter would feel that some can
didates are definitely better than others. 
Allowing; more candidates to run could be 
enough to get many voters to 
gather inexpensive informa
tion through newspapers, is
sue groups, word of mouth, or 
political parties. Additionally, 
a common strategy for a voter 
without the resources to gather 
such information might be to 
support a party, then vote for 
candidates endorsed by that 
party. Altering elections so 
that more than two candidates 
could win would also make 
that strategy much more at
tractive than making decisions 
based on expensive campaigns.
In addition, because our plu
rality election systems encourage voters 
not to waste their vote on a candidate 
with no chance of winning, the media and 
public will generally ignore a candidate 
without the money to carry out an ex
tremely visible campaign. In an election 
system where multiple candidates were 
viable, the endorsement of small, grasssignificantly help a candidate get votes.
The Center for Voting and Democracy 
(CVD) has analyzed our electoral systems 
and offered multiple solutions that would 
provide us with more choices in elections, 
more influence to grass-roots groups, and 
less money in elections. For situations in 
which we need to elect one official, such as 
presidential elections, they propose using 
Instant Runoff Voting (IRV). This system
Jamie Divine/Tartan Art Staff
encourages voters to vote for the candi
date they believe is best qualified instead 
of the best candidate nominated by the 
two main parties. It also'eliminates pri
mary elections, which lengthen the cam
paign season and are more influenced by 
wealth than general elections are. In an 
IRV system, a voter would list all the
prefers them. The votes for each candidate 
are counted, and the one with the least 
votes is eliminated. If a voters first choice 
is eliminated, then his vote is given to his 
second-chioice candidate. This process of 
elimination is repeated until one candi
date has a clear majority of the votes. For 
situations where we need to choose many 
representatives, such as congressional elec
tions, the Single Transferable Vote (STV, 
a.k.a. Choice Voting) would have many of 
the same benefits as IRV and work in a 
similar way. In addition, as a system of 
proportional representation, it would al
low minority groups to have representa
tion in the legislature and make it more 
difficult for special interest groups to in
fluence legislation.
Finally, to prove the unimportance of 
campaign spending in general elections, 
the CVD predicted the outcome of the 1998 
congressional elections, by party, 15 
months beforehand based solely on demo
graphic factors. They had 99% accuracy! 
These results show that because campaign 
spending has little effect on the outcome of 
the election, electoral reforms are not just 
solutions for the influence of money in 
politics. Rather, they are a way of making 
sure that we do have a real choice when we 
go to the polls and making sure that our 
government does actually represent us.
Adam Retchless is a senior biology ma
jor. He welcomes all responsible replies to
information down their throats through roots political groups would be enough to candidates in the order that the voter his column.Citizens should strip conglomerates of political power
VIOLENCE, from page 6
as destroying half the pharma
ceutical production of the African 
country of Sudan for no provable 
reason, arming terrorists in In
donesia, and cluster bombing hos
pitals, police stations, a televi
sion station, and civilian grocery 
shoppers in Yugoslavia. We may 
express benevolent sentiments 
with activism, but we are inevi
tably contributors to a system 
that belies them. For an Ameri
can citizen, it seems difficult to 
be completely innocent of passive 
violence without either being 
dead or owning no property. The 
institution of violence must be 
identified and reformed.
For many, the institution to 
blame for much of the worlds 
suffering is capitalism. The old 
defense against this argument is 
the myth of rugged individual
ism, that everybody who de
serves power gets it. This is far
from the truth ;for every rags 
to riches story, there are many 
more stories of people who re
mained victims of their class. And 
when you look a.t capitalism on 
the global scale, it is strange to 
say that entire peoples deserve to 
be poor, because that implies that 
these peoples have some kind of 
inherent ethnic depravity. Its a 
new kind of fascism. Perhaps only 
rich white Americans are rug
ged individuals?
The consolidation of power 
within the capitalist system and 
its malevolent use is guided by 
fewer and fewer specific entities. 
These are the principal estab
lishments of violence today: 
multi-national, corporations. 
Adam Smith, the intellectual fa
ther of capitalism, stated that for 
the market economy to work 
fairly, people had to start with 
equal rights and resources  
never mind class stratification.
He never foresaw the great dis
tortion of this theory by corpora
tions, and was suspicious of their 
predecessors, the joint-stock 
companies of his day.
The Objectivists defend unre
stricted corporate power by draw
ing a central distinction between 
economic power and political 
power; this is the crux of their 
argument. However, in a world 
where money is the source of 
freedom and influence, the great 
corporations have the power to 
eliminate this distinction. It is 
often entirely legal for a corpora
tion to subvert freedom and de
mocracy in the interest of profit. 
In fact, under treaties like the 
General Agreement on Tariffs 
and Trade, a corporation can sue 
over an unfair restriction of 
trade, such as an environmental 
or health regulation, thus sub
verting local laws anywhere to 
increase its profit, thanks to the
World Trade Organization!
It is clear that corporations 
have a significant influence on 
not just the market, but the state 
as well. State policy is dictated by 
business interestsdetermined 
by corporations. This situation 
certainly wont change as long as 
both parties in our two-party sys
tem agree on the matter. Accord
ing to the Web site for The Center 
for the Moral Defense of Capital
ism, Political power refers to the 
power of the government.... Eco
nomic power, on the other hand, 
is the ability to produce material 
values and offer them for sale.... 
The power of Big Oil is the power 
to discover, drill, and bring to the 
market a large amount of oil.... 
But does the power of Big Oil 
not also include the power to 
block medical supplies to Iraq 
and kill children, to destroy the 
environment in Nigeria as Shell 
Oil has? Does it not also include
the power to keep these issues 
out of the media?
Why did Emerson sense that 
[American] society is a joint 
stock company in conspiracy 
against the manhood of every one 
of its members? We may still 
have freedom of speech, but cor
porate domination of our society 
has eroded our freedom to act 
and control. This is a freedom 
that the American people 
deserve. Corporations achieve 
their power largely through 
their rights and property; these 
can be returnedto the people 
through legislation, but only 
if the current system of two 
identical party-politics is 
rebelled against, and a real de
mocracy is instated.
Neil Babra is a senior cognitive 
science major who believes that 
Ayn Rand was even uglier than 
Gertrude Stein.
With Halloween creeping up 
on CMU inexorably and 
haunted house posters litter
ing the bulletin boards, we 
asked the question: What is 
yoiir favorite scary movie 
and why?
Compiled by 
Chris May & Shannon Lynch
John Oduroe
Sophomore
Architecture
V. It wasnt supposed to be 
scary, but they would rip their 
faces off and it was really 
freaky.
Katie Polite 
First-year student 
Voice
Misery, because Kathy Bates 
is awesome.
Sam George 
Sophomore 
Drama
Shallow Grave, because its 
more of a psychological horror 
than a blood-and-guts horror.
Shannon Lynch/Tartan Junior Staff
Dawn Day 
First-year student 
ECE
The Omen, because the movie 
is based on an actual Bible verse, 
and it does what the Bible does 
and makes you scared that it 
might come true.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie IVIellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief...............Kevin Babbitt
Acting Managing Ed........Seth Mandel
Business Mgr...Kristine Andreassen
News Editor.................Ish Harshawat
Forum Editor....................Lorelei Laird
Sports Editor.......................Matt Brun
Features Editor...........Aseem Gupta
Diversions Editor........Elaine Boland
Calendar Editor...Behnam Farahpour
Art Editor................James Mojonnier
Acting Photo Editor......Bryan Kaplan
Dossier Design Editor.........Lee-Anne
Stossell
Dossier Literary Editor......Anne Ray
Advertising Manager...Bradley Fearn
Copy Manager.........Rebecca Fribush
Darkroom Mgr........Cassandra Knight
Acting Personnel Mgr........Greg Nofi
Production Mgr......Derek Greentree
Special Projects Mgr......Brian Smith
Systems Manager..Jonathan Pearce
Webmaster......................Jishnu Guha
Asst. Forum Editor..Christopher May
Asst. Art Editor............Justin Suissa
Asst. Business Mgr Asha Pathak
Asst. Dossier Design Ed.......Alberto
Capolino
Asst. Production Mgr....Blake Engel
Contributing Editors 
Kevin AuYoung, Anthony Chao, 
Rhys Conlon, William Holtz, Lisette 
Miller-Dixon, Craig Soules, 
Elizabeth Spiridakis, Nathan 
Steinwald
Senior Staff 
Rim Svarcas
Staffwriters 
Neil Babra, Thaddeus Billman, Grant 
Catton, Cliff Chien, Rob Cullen, Donny 
Debarr, Derek Dreyer, Colt Foutz, Andy 
Francis, Heather Frantz, Sriram 
Gollapalli, William-Neil Guzy, Rosie 
Jones, Cynthia Kos, Katie Kowall, Emily 
Landes, Matthew Lanken, Erin 
Lucas, Eunice Liew, Alex Neustein, 
Peter Patterson, Srinivas Pullela, 
Anwesha Rakshit, Gail Ronen, Lynn 
Tao, Christina Wong, Guido Zarrella
Art
Matthew Blum, Adam Grossi, Sam 
Lind, Reagan Heller, Joe Hocking, 
Cortland Shopper
Comics
Martin Hock, James Kenney, 
Tom Lin
Photo
Anthony DAuria, Cam Crews, 
Shannon Lynch, Koichiro Nakatsu, 
Raja Sambasivan, Balaji 
Sarpeshkar, Robin Taufmann, Stacey 
Tetzlaff, Peter Wang, Brian Yeung
Darkroom 
Paula Booker, Stephanie Chow, Cam 
Crews, Derek Cicerone, Rajat 
Mehla, Amy Solana, Laura Wetzel
Production 
Lance Brown, Jamie Divine, Serena 
Lam, Sarah McNeer, Chris Messina, 
Andrea Okerholm
Copy
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Chris
topher Dornfeld, Lis Harvey, Claire 
Jauregui, Larissa Kasian, Kristin 
Lala, Matthew McHenry, Emma 
Rehm, Balaji Sarpeshkar
Junior Staff 
Megan Adriance, Lily Ahn, Nicho
las Bonaddio, Joseph Carrier, 
Stephanie Chow, Krissy Chun, Dave 
del Rosario, Shion Deysarkar, Frank 
J. Fleming, LaRita Hamilton, Bill 
Jerome, Douglas Jones Jr, Rachel 
Kingery, Tim Lo, Matt Longnecker, 
Jennifer Petrini, Michael Raisman, 
Christian Reed, Jennifer Resick, 
Adam Retchless, Vanessa Salas, 
Sabrina Small, Sara Stille, Alissa 
Taylor, Laine Towey, Sheila Wang
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to 
members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
Inc. Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or academic year. The editorials 
appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political 
cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions 
of authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily, members of the University, 
community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's 
address and phone number for verification. 
Names may be withheld upon request. The 
Tartan requests that letters be no longer 
than 350 words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter. Letters 
to the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright  
1999 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit fof 
publication. Office: University Center Room 
314. Phone: 412/268-2111. Mailing 
address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107. The Tartan 
is a member of the Associated 
Press.

---------------------------------------------------

GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO
The plastic pizza thing.
COi. .O180O81422- .786Wa COi. .8nn71Otola
E6W tOi. .ten2- r1t22t46Oa
HP
Want to learn more about a career that fosters this kind of thinking? 
Consider this an open invitation for open minds.
Wednseday,October 27, 1999
Information Technology 
Marketing Session
6:00 - 8:00 pm 
Hamerschlag Hall 
Room B-131
 Casual Attire
Goldman Sachs is a leading international 
investment banking and securities firm, 
providing a full range of investment and 
financing services to corporations, 
governments, institutions and individuals 
worldwide.
Our philosophy, "Minds. Wide Open."SH 
emphasizes our open collaborative atmosphere 
wherein ideas are shared and innovative 
thinking is encouraged. We believe that our 
teamwork culture affords opportunities for all 
individuals to have an important impact on the 
building of our businesses and their success.
Consider becoming a member of our team.
GoldmanSadis
Minds. Wide Open.mmmab.a07e
1S/iboa .om(sM oa r$To/ SEESGnTadn8 rbE/S8rGM iSrs aSn idsmGdbdaonr da rbE/S8bran Sa oa8 0osds n(on ds EGS(d0dnri 08 IrirGo/M snonr SG /Smo/ /ofV
i _____________________________________________ 49392. CMU. 10-27 a2 !3 107*2;

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  25 October 1999
Writer calls for PGA to permit use of carts
I Column As I See emby Colt Foutz
What would you do if every 
time you walked across campus, 
you first had to wrap your leg in 
a special support stocking, ren. dering it stiff and immobile? How 
; would you feel knowing that with 
every step you took on the way to 
class you risked permanent in
jury to your leg, that it could 
break easily if you, say, failed to 
avoid a stray rollerblader, or 
tripped going up the steps to 
Doherty? And would you be too 
keen on taking that lunchtime 
trek down Frew Street to Srees if 
you knew that if you did happen 
to break your leg, you wouldnt be 
facing a few months in a cast but 
instead looking at the certainty 
/ that your leg would have to be 
; amputated?
I dont know about you all, but 
Id schedule all my classes on the 
first floor of Baker and have a car 
waiting for me when I came out. 
What I certainly wouldnt do is 
harbor any dreams about being a 
professional athlete. But then, 
Im not crazy for golf the way 
Casey Martin is. Come to think of 
it, is anybody?
' Casey Martin suffers from 
Klippel-Trenaunay-Webber Syn' drome, a rare circulatory disor. der that has caused his right leg 
to wither to half the size of his 
healthy left one. Whenever Mar
tin steps on a golf course or even 
steps outside to get the mail  
and this is happening less and 
less these days  he has to pull 
two tightly fitting stockings over 
his leg to help blood circulate and 
prevent the swelling that keeps 
him in constant discomfort. His 
doctors told him long ago that 
amputation was inevitable, and 
that walking would only bring 
him one step closer to losing the 
leg, and this guy can still find the 
fortitude to drive a ball 300 yards 
and sink putts when the pressure 
is on? Turns out he can, and hes 
pretty damn good at it, too.
With his 38th-place finish at 
the season-ending Nike Tour 
Championships this past week
end, Martin finished 14th on the 
Nike Tour money list and earned 
his PGA tour card, meaning that 
beginning next year Martin can 
test his game against the best 
golfers in the world. Much like 
one-handed Jim Abbot pitching a 
no-hitter, or Tom Dempsey kick
ing the NFLs longest field goal 
with a club foot, Martin has awed 
the public by overcoming his dis
ability to rise to the top of his 
game. What a great story! The
only thig is, the PGA doesnt 
think so.
Oh, the PGA bigwigs say all the 
right things in public. They ad
mire Martins courage, and main
tain that hes one of the best play
ers anywhere. They just dont 
think he should play on 
their tour.
Nice job, 
kid,
fairway to fairway and hole to 
hole is an integral part of the 
physical game of golf. They tell 
us that to traverse a course by 
foot brings on fatigue, and thus 
factors into how well a golfer mil 
play. The PGA is afraid that if 
they give Martin the 
right to ride 
a cart, he 
might 
gain
theyre 
telling him,
but wed prefer 
to cheer you on in 
the Nike Tour. And its all be
cause of a golf cart.
Youve all seen a golf cart, Im 
sure. Probably even ridden in one. 
And why? Most likely to get 
around on a golf course. In fact, I 
dont think Ive ever been to a golf 
course where I havent seen golf 
carts zipping around. Theyre as 
much a part of the golf course as, 
say, the golf club. Well, last year, 
Casey Martin sued the PGA tour 
for the right to ride one in compe
tition. The leg, remember? Seems 
like he figured the more years he 
got out of his leg, the more golf he 
could play. Well, the PGA has a 
rule that strictly prohibits riding 
from hole to hole. And thus, a 
talented and tenacious golfer is 
kept out on a technicality. Any
one else sensing the creeping idi
ocy in all this?
You see, golf has always suf
fered from the conception that 
its a sport that anyone can play, 
that the guys you see teeing it up 
every other weekend on TV are 
not so much athletes as lumpy, 
plaid-panted fellows who can hit 
the ball really far and really 
straight. And lets be honest here, 
if I had to pick who would win in 
a footrace between a 300-pound 
member of the Dallas Cowboys 
offensive line, or waifish golfer 
Fred Couples, Id pick the foot
ball player. Golfers just dont ex
ude much physical presence. 
Sure, Tiger Woods is cut, but to 
watch him line up a putt and 
swing ever so daintily to put a 
dimpled little white ball into a 
flagged hole to earn a birdie? 
Cmon! Give me a sack or a face 
mask penalty, any day!
So golf overcompensates. The 
PGAmaintains that walkingfrom
Alissa Taylor/
Tartan Junior Staff
unfair advantage over the other 
players, who have to walk the 
course even if theyre tired, even 
if their feet hurt, or even if theyd 
really like to get back to the club
house to sit down because their 
butts are hurting from carrying 
around their overstuffed wallets. 
Theyre worried that this discrep
ancy in the rules will cause the 
unfairness to spread, and soon 
well see dozens of carts zipping 
all over the blessed sanctity of 
the links. Im sorry, but hasnt 
life been unfair enough to Mar
tin, already?
Funny, but I dont think that 
Coupless aching back or Spanish 
golfer Jose Maria Olazabuls sore 
feet warrant a cart. And I dont 
mind seeing the sanctity of the 
game ruined if it means getting 
to see a heroic individual like 
Martin play against Tiger Woods 
or Sergio Garcia. Does anybody 
care how golfers get from hole to 
hole? Whos got the best walk on 
the PGA tour, anyway? And just 
for the sake of comparison, whos 
leveling the playing field for Mar
tin? Should the other tour pros 
have to line up and get their shins
whacked before each round of the 
tournament to simulate the pain 
that Martin goes through with 
each step? What about the men
tal anguish that comes from 
thinking about losing the leg, or 
the sleep he loses to continual 
discomfort? What, like a disabil
ity doesnt contribute to fatigue?
Well, Martin won his case 
against the PGA tour last Febru
ary, which is why he got the 
chance to qualify on the Nike 
Tour in the first place. But the 
case is under appeal, and the 
Ninth Circuit Court is expected 
to rule on the case before next 
spring. So while Martin smiled 
proudly upon receiving his tour 
card Sunday from PGA director 
Tim Finchem, theres a very real 
possibility that Finchem will be 
taking that same card away from 
him before Martin even gets to 
play a round with big boys. So, 
Martin has earned the right to 
make his dream come true, but 
has to wait for a second 
court ruling.
Well, I have a suggestion for 
the PGA: Dont make Martin wait 
that long. Change the flipping
rule, already! Some rules are des
tined to change, and destiny has 
been banging on the door to the 
clubhouse with a nine iron for a 
year now. Tradition? Competi
tive balance? Werent these the 
same ideas keeping blacks from 
playing the PGA in the 1950s? 
Seems to me that Tiger Woods is 
doing a-okay, and the sport is 
succeeding because of it.
And about this physical thing. 
So golfers arent looked at as hulk
ing behemoths or cat-quick 
sprinters. So what! Shouldnt the 
fact that a disabled person can 
play this game as well as any 
other able-bodied individual be 
looked at as an asset?
Whatever the result of the court 
case, and whether or not the PGA 
wakes up and unlocks the steel 
safe deposit box in its collective 
chest and actually pulls out. a 
heart is irrelevant. Casey Martin 
has proven that hes not just a 
monster driver or a precise putter. 
Hes a hero in life.
Colt Foutz writes a weekly sports 
column for The Tartan. All re
sponsible replies are welcome.
Believer. 
Standards bearer. 
Agitator.
"To look at the great changes taking place in our industry and see 
only possibility. That's what Apple provides me. The freedom-the 
push-to confront changes in a better, entirely new way. We all make 
a difference. Everyday,"
Sanjay
Software Engineering
www.apple.com/jobs
Meet Apple employees and lie the lirst to hear about 
our new products and technologies.
Information Session
October 27th
lie sure to drop by your Career Placement Center 
for time and location.
On-campus Interviews
October 28tli-29th & November IsMth
Think different.
\[)|Sc Comp las 3 r|*.f.Uf nmmrtinait in the piixi|>Jc of Onvoity. In (lut *pirii, vewleime Jpp&atkMB If'im ill ivlivkhuU 
OlW Iix All riglns rvxfuxl Aprite Jntl tl-A|)j>lv k)*> arc rejyaitw] UiuLnurt ofA|>pt-<jwi))ui. Im
Speed wins in college football of the 90s
Between the Uprightsby Pete Patterson
One method often used to assess a 
conferences performance is the number 
of national champions it has produced. 
By this measure, the Big 12 and the SEC 
have owned the 90s. The Big 12 can 
claim two undisputed and two shared 
titles, while SEC teams have won three 
undisputed titles. The Big 12s domi
nance is due largely to Nebraska, with 
Colorados shared title in 1990 repre
senting the only other team to claim the 
top spot in the decade. The SEC, mean
while, has had three different teams  
Florida, Tennessee, and Alabamawin 
the title. Due to the superior depth of 
their conference, the SEC can probably 
claim the title of the best conference of 
the decade.
A conference that has not fared well in 
the decade is the grand old Big 10. The 
conference was shut out of the title race
until Michigan claimed the crown in 
1997. Many people have argued that 
this is attributable to the fact that the 
depth of the conference is so great that it 
is nearly impossible for a team to go 
through the conference schedule un
scathed, leaving the teams in poor posi
tion in the national title hunt. This, 
however, doesnt explain why the SEC 
has routinely spanked the Big Ten in 
head-to-head match-ups in bowl games 
this decade.
The true reason for the Big Tens re
cent inferiority is speed, or lack thereof. 
In the early part of the decade, the lin
gering three-yards-and-a-cloud-of-dust 
philosophy from the SchembechlerHayes era couldnt compete with the 
lightning-quick teams of the south. Now 
in 1999, the Big Ten has finally caught 
up. Rather than trying to line up the 
biggest possible team they can, pound 
each other, and then have the southern 
teams run circles around them, the 
league has started to recruit athletes of 
its own. Penn States defense, led by 
Lavar Arrington, may be the most ath
letic in the country. Purdue QB Drew 
Brees throws enough to make Steve 
Spurrier blush. Even the Michigan Wol
verines have been lining up in thespeedbased spread formation several times 
a game.
Unfortunately, now that the Big Ten 
has caught up to the SEC, all the teams 
in the league are knocking each other 
out of the national title hunt. Entering 
this weekend, undefeated Penn State 
and once-defeated Michigan and Michi
gan State could still claim 
to have a realistic shot at 
the title. Now that list is 
down to one: Penn State.
The Nittany Lions barely 
held on to beat Purdue, 31- 
25, to remain undefeated.
The Wolverines and the 
Spartans werent so lucky.
Illinois, previously winless 
in conference play, some
how managed to knock off 
Michigan, while Wisconsin 
crushed Michigan State by 
running for more yards 
than the Spartans had al
lowed the entire year thus 
far in seven games, includ
ing 214 from Ron Dayne.
Since the success of a con
ference is often measured 
by its national titles, fans 
of the Big Ten should hope that Penn 
State manages to win the remainder of 
their league games, as a loss this late in 
the season would probably be fatal to 
their title hopes. The Nittany Lions
travel to Illinois this week, then play 
Minnesota and Michigan at home before 
wrapping up the regular season at Michi
gan State. The way the season is going, 
it is not hard to imagine Penn State 
dropping one of these games and having
Matt Blum/Tartan Art Staff
the Big Ten once again shut out of the 
national championship picture.
In other news from this week in col
lege football, Bobby Bowden managed to 
win his 300th career game against
Clemson. The heavily favored Seminles 
were down 14-3 at halftime, but man
aged to escape Death Valley with a 17- 
14 win. Making the game even more 
special was the fact that the coacb-for 
the Clemson Tigers is Tommy Bowden, 
making the game the first time there 
has been a father-son coaching match
up in college football history. An inter
esting side note on this is that Bobby is 
the only one of the Bowdens that has yet 
to finish a season undefeated. Son Terry 
had an 11-0 year with Auburn, while 
Tommys Tulane team didnt lose a game 
last year. (Remember that Bobbys only 
national championship team lost to Notre 
Dame in the 1993 season only to back 
into the title after the Irish lost to Bos
ton College later in the year. So, despite 
having the same record as Notre Dame 
and falling to them in head-to-head com
petition, FSU won the title.) In order for 
Bobby to match his sons undefeated 
seasons, he better hope the Noles start 
playing better than they did against 
Clemson and Wake Forest the last-two 
weeks. That kind of play wont cut it on 
November 20 against Florida in - the 
swamp or in a BCS bowl.
Pete Patterson is a sophomore IDS 
major. All thoughtful responses toyhis 
views are appreciated.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  25 October 1999Writer sees Red (Sox) 
at award presentations
Play Ballby Matt Brun
Well, the World Series is finally un
derway with the billing that the 
winner will be the Team of the 90s. If 
that already seems like a bit too much 
h^pe, just be glad we didnt end up with 
^ Subway Series of the Yankees vs. 
tl}e Mets.
Now, correct me if Im wrong, but 
shouldnt the title of Team of the 90s 
go to the club thats been the most 
consistently impressive throughout 
the entire decade? If so, then Id say 
the Braves clinched the award 
back in 95. Up to that point, 
Atlanta had earned six straight 
playoff appearances, four World 
Series appearances, and one 
qbampionship. Since then, 
t]?kyve added four more playoff 
fi&ths, and now have a chance to 
win their second championship in 
wHat is now up to six visits to 
lie Series.
What about the Yankees, you 
may ask? Well, what about 
them? So theyve made the play
offs every year since 95. The 
Indians have done that, too, 
arid I dont think theyll be 
gtting many votes for it.
Should they go on to win this 
series, the Yankees will have 
three championships in the 
decade. Impressive, sure, 
tiut only one more than 
the Toronto Blue 
Jays have. For 
opce, the New 
York media ma'faine shouldnt 
be. able to pull 
this one off. No
expect me to get all mushy about 
the winner.
So, on to the awards. The democratic 
way to do this would be to list each of the 
main candidates, and critique their 
chances. Since no one gets input on this 
column but me, however, Im just going 
to give my picks and maybe include a 
dark horse that could steal some votes. 
American League Cy Young 
They have to hold the vote to make it 
official, but really, is there any doubt? A 
record of 23-4, an ERA just over two, 
and an opponents batting average a 
hair above .200 ought to be enough to 
convince you, but if not how about 313 
strikeouts to just 37 walks? Just give the 
trophy to Pedro 
Martinez now 
and get it all 
over with.
American 
League 
Rookie of 
the Year 
Breaking 
in as a rookie 
is always 
tough, espe
cially for 
pitchers, who 
dont get in ev
ery game. The 
situation is a little 
better for bullpen 
pitchers, but for the 
long setup man, the ex
tra pressure of holding 
the lead until the more 
trusted closer can come in 
and seal the victory makes 
for a long season. In light 
of this, the Rangers Jeff 
Zimmerman gets the nod 
for Rookie of the Year hon
ors. I dont know what it is 
exactly, probably the three 
times as many strikeouts 
as earned runs (67 to 23,1 
know its not exactly three 
times, dont argue with 
me), but his numbers just 
scream big-time player.James Mojonnier/
Tartan Art EditorCarlos Beltran will get 
matter the result of the final World Sehis share of votes, and will benefit from 
:M&s of the century, the Braves are the the emphasis on offense in todays game, 
'Team of the 90s, hands down. but his numbers dont jump out at me
1 "Speaking of awards, Im going to use like Zimmermans, 
this weeks column to go over my picks American League Manager of the Year 
for this years season awards, mostly This is a tough one. Art Howe did 
because I dont want to talk about the wonders in the small market of OakWorld Series being contested between land, but he couldnt get the As over the 
the two teams I would go so far as to say hump and into the playoffs. Jimy WillIvhate. Dont worry, Ill give a nice spiel iams got there with the Red Sox, and he 
about how the series ends, but dont did it despite the fact that his team
didnt deserve to win a single game that 
Martinez didnt pitch. He also found a 
way to get some offense from someone 
besides Nomar Garciaparra, no easy task 
with the Red Sox roster.
American League MVP 
Much as Id love to see Manny Ramirez 
or Roberto Alomar bring the award to 
Cleveland, neither of them deserve the 
award in its true spirit. Take either of 
them out of the lineup and the Indians 
score 900 runs instead of 1000. Take 
Martinez away from Boston and the Red 
Sox dont finish above .500. No pitchers 
won the MVP since Dennis Eckersly 
saved 50 games for Oakland  its time 
for a change.
National League Cy Young 
Place the emphasis on wins if you 
want, but that wont get you the best 
pitcher in the NL. Houstons Mike Hamp
ton and Jose Lima both won 20-plus 
games, but the BigUnit, Randy Johnson, 
was his usual, dominant self. Im firmly 
of the opinion that no one will ever 
seriously challenge Nolan Ryans 
strikeout record since pitchers might as 
well be throwing uphill now, so the fact 
that Johnson came somewhat close is 
amazing, as is his eye-popping total of 
364 Ks. You still want wins? Take away 
the four starts when Johnson gave up 
five runs total while his team scored just 
two, and those 17 wins become 21. 
National League Rookie of the Year 
To be completely honest, I dont follow 
the NL that much. I dont know the 
numbers on everyone, but Warren Mor
ris had an impressive year. Whats good 
enough for the national press is good 
enough for me.
National League Manager of the Year 
Buck Showalter won a lousy division 
with the best team money can buy. Bobby 
Cox actually had to manage for the first 
time, in several seasons, but kept the 
Braves ahead of the Mets. The Braves 
showed real grit late in the season, when 
it really counts.
National League MVP 
Jeff Bagwell and Matt Williams had 
big numbers, but I didnt hear anything 
from them after August. Arizona won 
the division handily, while Houston 
backed in. Atlanta almost didnt make 
it, either, but they still had the best 
record in the league, and Chipper Jones 
made sure of it in September.
Matt Brun has much more confidence 
in these predictions than in his playoff 
predictions. Besides, these arent nearly 
as important, and he isnt going to care if 
he gets them wrong. Missing the other 
predictions really hurt, though.
Communicator. Innovator. Strawbeny lover.
' Passion, energy and creativity are uniquely pervasive at 
Apple. I'm fascinated by the brand, attracted by the open 
culture, and I love mv strawbeny Mac."
Lorraine
Human Resources
www.apple.com/jobs
Meet Apple employees and be the first to hear alx>ut 
our new products and technologies.
Information Session
October 27th
Be sure to drop by your Career Placement Center 
for time and location.
On-campus Interviews
Oclolier 28ih-29th & November lsRlh

Think different.
Women falter in 
UAA match-up
SOCCER, from page 12 tal game on Friday against Brandeis as
Brandeis manages to give CMU one of well. The young womens team is lookits best games of the season. The match ing to end the season strongly and put a 
started slowly, as neither team really few exclamation points on a very en
couraging season. The squad 
encountered difficulty, 
throughout the match, how
ever. Despite continually owniing the run of play, CMU just 
couldnt finish any of their op-* 
portunities. The score at the 
half was 0-0, and the Tartans; 
although not playing their best 
soccer of the year, were con
trolling the match.
The second half would prove 
to be another hard-fought one. 
Unfortunately for the Tartans, 
Brandeis scored midway 
through the second half. They 
also refused to relinquish their 
lead, as they rode the 1-0 score 
to a victory. CMU had several 
chances during the second 
half, but just couldnt put any
thing in the back of the net. A 
few key starters for the Tai-T 
tans had difficulty gettinginto 
the game completely. This, 
coupled with a few injuries 
and a tough Brandeis squad, 
kept CMU from getting to the 
point where they could finally 
hit on all cylin-ders arid take 
the match. The womens team, though, 
still has three games left in the season; 
and could easily go on a tear and take all 
three matches convincingly. '.
The mens and womens teams both 
have two games this week. The mens 
team is away for both games, and the 
women are home on Wednesday and 
away on Sunday. The womens match on 
Wednesday is the last home game for 
either Tartan team this season,-against 
Lake Erie College.
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff 
The CMU women will look to rebound from last 
weeks loss in their final three games.
asserted itself as the dominant one.
After minimal scoring opportunities 
for both teams, the half ended in a 
scoreless tie. With the lingering memo
ries of two straight 0-0 ties in confer
ence play (both occurring two weeks 
prior, against Emory and NYU), the 
Tartans knew that they had to put 
this streak to rest and come out 
strongly in the second half. The effort 
would prove futile, though, as the Tar
tans were knocked around and 
outplayed physi
cally by the 
Brandeis team, 
and were unable 
to put in a goal.
CMU was held 
scoreless through 
the entire half, as 
well as the two ensuing sudden 
death overtimes.
The final result of 
the match was yet 
another 0-0 tie 
for the Tartans, 
as they improved 
their overall 
record to 11-1-3.
The womens 
team played a viBryan Kaplan/Tartan Acting Photo Edito}- 
The Tartans extended their winning streak with more 
outstanding defensive play, recording two shutouts last week]Football squad 
loses at home
FOOTBALL, from page 12
goal. The score was now 24-7, 
and it would stay that way until 
the final buzzer.
One of the key factors in the 
outcome of this game was CMUs
looked to the passing game mork 
than usual, but was unable to 
produce there either.
We were beat in every aspecit 
of this game, said head coach 
Rich Lackner. They executed,
Raja Sambasivan/Tartan Photo Staff 
Washington ran over the usually tough CMU defense, rolling up 
points and sending the Tartans to thier second loss of the season. \
multiple turnovers. Washington and we didnt. Washington was 
got out to a six-point lead in the able to move the ball and forcp 
first minute of the game because some costly turnovers, whilfe 
of an interception, and the blocked CMU was not able to do the same, 
punt added distance to the lead CMU will finish out the 1999 
at the only time when CMU had
a chance to come back.
Washington was also able to 
shut down CMUs usually un
stoppable running game. CMU
season with three away games. 
They play at Rochester, Juniata, 
and Thomas More in the next 
three weeks, and hope to finish 
out the season strong.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon UniverSity  25 October 199911
Swim squads cruise through first meet
SWIMMING, from page 12
Im real pleased with the way 
we started the season, Belowich 
said. Everyone had very fast 
times, even though we werent 
really looking for times.
For the women, Belowich 
pointed out a number of individu
als who had impressive perfor
mances, but singled out junior 
Julie Tseng and senior co-cap
tain Erin Rockwell. Tseng won 
the 200-yard freestyle and the 
200-yard backstroke, and 500- 
yard freestyle, as well as swim
ming a leg for the victorious 400- 
yard freestyle relay. [Tseng] gave 
as outstanding an individual per
formance as Ive seen in a long 
time, said Belowich.
Not to be outdone, Rockwell 
won the 100-yard breaststroke, 
200-yard breaststroke, and was 
on the winning 200-yard medley 
relay team along with sophomore 
Monica Costlow, sophomore Erin 
Andrews, and junior Becky 
Hildebrand. Costlow also turned
in a key performance, placing 
second in the 100-yard back
stroke and third in the 100- 
yard freestyle. Hildebrand 
rounded out the womens top 
finishes with second place fin
ishes in the 50-yard freestyle 
and 100-yard butterfly events.
A key improvement over last 
years squad was the perfor
mance in the diving events.
First-year student Rose Seyler 
won the one-meter event, and 
sophomore Erin Campbell took 
second in the three-meter.
The divers really came 
through, Belowich said. The 
diving program is getting bet
ter and better.
The men were paced by a 
number of strong perfor
mances, led by senior co-cap
tain Mike Robinson, junior
GeorgeHeidinger, sophomore ---------------------------- ^ ..... . ^  , . , , , Rhys Conlon/Tartan Contributing EditorSean Belowich, and sophomore . ..C  n,. . -l The CMU swim teams are 2-0 on the young season.Brandon May. Robinson took
first-place honors in the 100-yard freestyle, and was a member of All-American in both the 100-
freestyle and the, 200-yard the winning 400-yard freestyle and 200-yard backstroke events.
relay along with 
Belowich, 
Heidinger, and 
sophomore Ian Pe
ters. The relay 
teams time of 
1:37.45 was just 
short of the cut for 
the national meet.
Heidinger won 
the 100-yard but
terfly, teamed with 
Belowich, jun-ior 
Jon Al-pert, and 
sophomore Matt 
Schewchuk to win 
the 200-yard med
ley relay, and fin
ished second to an 
All-American from 
the 200-yard but
terfly. Belowich 
faced even tougher 
competition, fin
ishing a very close 
second to another
George was going up against 
some good competition, 
Belowich said. He came from 
behind to win the 100 fly in 
the final length, which was 
very impressive.
In the diving events, May 
showed much of the form that 
qualified him for the NCAA cham
pionships last year in winning 
both events, while senior Jon 
Hsieh also gave a good showing. 
[Hsieh] gives us good depth in 
the diving events. Belowich said. 
Having two good divers gives us 
an edge in each meet.
Even the participants that 
didnt win turned in performances 
well ahead of expectations. Ev
eryone from the top finishers 
down to the people who didnt 
score gave top times, he said. 
Weve been training real hard 
since September. Everyone was 
ready to have a meet, and it 
showed in their performances. 
Some of the unsung performers 
for the Tartans were Alpert, firstyear student Billy Gains, and 
first-year student Adam Russo. 
Alpert took second in the 22$- 
yard freestyle, third in the 500- 
yard freestyle, and fourth in the 
50-yard freestyle on top of his 
role in the freestyle relay;; 
Performing like that in all 
ferent distances really shows 
[Alperts] versatility arid 
considerable talent, Belo
wich said.
Gains turned in impressive 
times in the 1000- and 500-yard 
freestyle events, and Russo was 
strong in the 100- and 200-yard 
butterfly races.
Strong supporting perfor
mances for the women came 
from sophomore Katie Dickey 
(second in the 200-yard freestyle)- 
first-year student Mei-Lan HqWalker (third in the lOO-ya^d 
backstroke and fourth in $ie 
200-yard backstroke), and firs;tyear student Libby Williams 
(second place in the 50tTyard freestyle).CMU sets high 
goals for UAAs
VOLLEYBALL, from page 12
The competition [at UAAs] will 
be much harder than what weve 
seen this year and at last years 
Championship, said Putaro. If 
we are the best defensive team 
there, we will win.
[We have to work on] taking 
advantage of every second of prac
tice this week, said Szobota.
If the team wins the UAAs, it 
will get an automatic bid in the 
NCAA Division III national tour
nament. If they do not win, there 
is still a chance they will be 
awarded an at-large bid, but most 
likely they will be playing in the 
ECAC invitational.
[Playing in the national tour
nament] would be one more thing 
that this team could call a first, 
said Webb. It would be great for 
the girls and the program.
The success of the volleyball 
team had not gone without notice 
in the CMU athletics community 
and school in general.
Wednesdays match against Seton Hill saw one of the largest 
crowds ever for a Tartan vol
leyball dual match.
I definitely think our suc
cess has gotten us more fans, 
said Webb.
[The success of the volley
ball team] has shown that we 
are able to transform a pro
gram in a short time period of a 
few years into one of the best 
teams in the area and compete 
with the top teams in the UAA, 
said Carnegie Mellon Athletics 
Director John Harvey.
With past success behind 
them, the team will face its 
biggest challenge yet. Next 
weekend, the Carnegie Mellon 
womens volleyball team will 
have the opportunity to take 
the program to the next level 
and gain recognition on a na
tional level when they finally 
get their shot at the 
UAA Championships.
New players lead hockey to 
impressive win on home ice
By ERIN LUCAS
Tartan Staffwriter
The C amegie Mellon ice hockey 
team has a new look this year, 
mostly due to the fact that the 
roster is filled with many new 
names and faces. They include 
nine first-year students, most no
tably first-line center Rob Ready, 
second-line center Ed Brower, and 
defenseman Noble Shore. The 
team, led by senior captain Dan 
Grosso, now maintains 31 play
ers that create a well-rounded 
group filled with a full range of 
first-year to graduate students. 
Despite the new composition of 
the team, the growing pains of 
adjusting to one another were 
very short-lived as witnessed by 
the 3-2 victory over Slippery Rock 
University last Saturday at the 
Neville Ice Arena.
The game was evenly matched 
throughout all three periods with
CMU grabbing only a three-shot 
advantage by the end. Slippery 
Rock was very competent through 
the neutral zone, creating nu
merous scoring opportunities. 
However, they had much more 
difficulty finishing, as many of 
their shots were either off net or 
were easily stopped by senior 
CMU goaltender Gil Min, who 
played an outstanding game in 
net for the Tartans.
Although Slippery Rock played 
a strong first period, Carnegie 
Mellon clearly dominated. Carn
egie Mellons first goal came early 
in the game as first-year center 
Ed Brower scored a power play 
goal on a two-man advantage at 
13:53 with assists from graduate 
student Chris Killam and senior 
Brandon Paluzzi. It wasnt until 
less than two minutes were left 
in the first that the Tartans were 
able to.rack up another point, 
when Brower scored his second
goal of the period, an unassisted 
tally at 1:54.
Ed was our offense tonight, 
said head coach Maddalena.
The second period was charac
terized by the constant delegat
ing of penalties to both sides. 
Opposing players were obviously 
beginning to frustrate one an
other as evidenced by the numer
ous holding, slashing, and 
unsportsman-like conduct pen
alties. Despite all the penalties, 
it was an exciting period to watch 
as play was even throughout. Slip
pery Rock cut the Tartans lead 
in half with their first goal of the 
game at 3:58, but was immedi
ately answered back with a CMU 
goal at 2:39 by graduate student 
Constantine Davidies.
Slippery Rock scored their sec
ond goal three minutes into the 
third period. It was a tense pe
riod with many shots taken by 
both sides. The opposing team
put up a strong fight during tK 
third, but the Carnegie Mellon 
defense was extremely tough, led 
by senior Cliff Brangwynne, 
sophomore Eliot Minichello, fu$tyear student Noble Shore, apd 
graduate student Chris Killajn. 
The Tartans held on to claim, a 
hard-fought, but well-earned 
3-2 victory.
Coach Maddalena was ex
tremely pleased with the play of 
his team. We lost our first game 
to [California University of Penn
sylvania] and this team just b^t 
them last night, he said. r^e 
played a great game to win. Qj^l 
had an amazing game for us J^e 
made the difference coming, up 
with the big saves. This was the 
best game of the year so far. 
Things are looking good.
Carnegie Mellons next home 
game is at the Island Sports Com
plex (Neville Island) on October 
31 at 3 pm against Penn State. (
 fWmOctober 2S,
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike 
Mastroianni x8-2214 (email 
mmaS)
Assistant Intramural Direc
tor: Mike Grzywinski x8-2214 
(email immike)
Intramural Secretary: Amy 
Kiryk x8-2053
Intramural President: Justin 
Peroli x2-3917 
Womens President: Andrea 
Nellis x2-2611
Vice President: Mike Hutsko 
X2-3945
Important Dates
Tuesday, October 26  There 
is an IM board meeting at 
11:30 am in the gym confer
ence room.
Sports Completed
Tennis  The tennis finals 
were held this past week. The 
champions were:
Majors  4X 
Intermediate  Mania
Minors  PKT Everyday 
Struggle
Womens  Siam
Sports In Season
Water Polo  Schedules are  
available and games are under 
way at the UC Pool. Games 
are played Monday and 
Wednesday nights from 9 to 11 
pm. Games scheduled for 
November 1 are canceled for a 
home swim meet.
Chess and Foosball  Sched
ules are out. Please report 
scores to the IM office.
Racquetball  Matches are 
being played at the UC Courts. 
Report scores to the IM office.
Team Table Tennis, Darts, 
Team Call Pool  Schedules 
can be picked up in the IM 
office. Games started last week. 
Report scores to the IM office.
Soccer  Games are under way 
at the Stadium and the IM 
Fields. Please stay off the fields 
during varsity practice.
Bowling  Matches are under 
way at the Pittsburgh Athletic
Association on Sundays. 
Schedules can be picked up at 
the IM Office.
Volleyball  Games are being 
played at the UC Gym. 
Schedules are available in the 
IM office.
Spades  Schedules will be 
out this week. Play games as 
scheduled and report scores 
to the IM Office.
All Sports Update 
(Through Tennis)
Mens
1. SAE 1166
2. Beta 750
3. Omega 700
4. PiKA 650
Women's
1. FTH 500
2. Hoopers 400
Please feel free contact 
the IM Office or stop by 
the gym if you have any 
questions.
Reminder: All email en
tries are due 24 hours 
prior to the posted dead
line.
classified
The Tartan is looking for a few good writers to help cover Tartan 
sports. Call x8-2111 or email mbrun+ for more info.
Keep up 
with the
OPPORTUNITIES
Auto Insurance designed for college 
students. Low rates, convenient 
payments. Call (412) 521-8600.
Business Idea? Private Local Investor 
has seed money for promising business. bnewman@prodigy. net.
JRAVEL
Browse icpt.com for Spring break 
"2000." ALL destinations offered. Trip 
participants, student orgs & campus 
sales reps wanted. Fabulous parties, 
hotels & prices. Call Inter-Campus 
(800)327-601 3.
Earn Free Trips and Cash!!! Spring 
Break 2000, Cancn, Jamaica. For 10 
years Class Travel International (CTl) 
has distinguished itself as the most 
reliable student event and marketing 
organization in North America. 
Motivated Reps can go on Spring Break 
FREE & earn over $10,000! Contact Us 
today for details! (800)328-1509. 
mwv. class tra velin tl. com.
Spring Break 2000 
The Millennium. A new decade...nice 
Travel. Free trips, free drinks, free 
meals. Jamaica, Cancn, Florida, 
Barbados, Bahamas. Don't drop the 
ball! Sign up now for 2 FREE Trips!! 
(800)426-7710/ 
vvww. sunsplashtours. com
Spring Break 2000 with STS-Join 
America's 1 Student Tour Operator to 
Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas, Cruises, and 
Florida. Now hiring on-campus reps. 
Call 1-800-648-4849 or visit online @ www.ststravel. com.
***ACT NOW! Call for the best SPRING 
BREAK prices! South Padre, Cancn, 
Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida $ 
Mardi Cras. Reps needed. Travel free, 
earn $5$. Discounts for 6+. (800)838-
8203/ vvww. lei sure tours, com
HELP WANTED
Palm Pilot Programmer: Develop data 
collection forms for local physician on the 
Palm Computing platform. Must be 
familiar with C/C++ and SQL. Also, must 
be experienced with Palmlll connected 
organizer applications (Address Book, 
Memo Pad, etc.). Please send applica
tions to: nfreyui@aol.com, fax: (412)563- 
0646, or Normen J. Frey III, 14412 
Mohican Drive, Pittsburgh PA 15228.
Pittsburgh Deli Company in Shadyside 
hiring reliable counter/kitchen people. 25 
hrs. minimum, call 682-3354, ask for 
Matt or Scott.
Attention Psychologists, Double E's, 
Computer Scientists, and Human 
Computer Interface Aces...Living.com, 
and Austin, Texas e-commerce company 
is looking for dynamic individuals to act 
as Campus Consultants at Carnegie 
Mellon. If you are computer savvy, have 
good people skills, and would like to earn 
$20 an hour between bio and booze 
working for a strong player in the ecommerce industry then this is the job for 
you. Please contact: Jennie Lazor,
Staffing Manager, Living.com, enni@Hving.com, (512)391-6317.
Pizza Outlet delivery and in-store staff 
opportunities (apply in store). Fun, 
friendly work environment. Daily cash 
pay-out for Deliveries. Great second job. 
Flexible hours. Pizza/Meal discount. 
Training. Opportunity for advancement. 
Annual company picnic. A chance to 
make some great dough. Call 
(800)4JOBS44 for more information.
Position Available...Car washing and 
light maintenance work in the Shadyside/ 
Oakland area. Morning hours are 
necessary. $5.75 per hour...Contact 
Jeffrey Fugh at 621-1665.
Ongoing Internet Research Project, two
students needed, must have extensive 
internet searching experience AND be 
a skilled programmer capable of writing 
engines to automated retrieval of 
information, once found. Work at your 
location, on your hours. Must meet 
mutually set deadlines. References and 
past experience required. You will be 
well compensated by salary or on a 
project basis. Fax letter of interest (or 
resume) to (412)531-9026.
S25+ Per Hour! Direct sales reps 
needed NOW! Market credit card 
applications. $5 per app, we help 
you get started! (800)651-2832.
UPMC Health Systems is looking for 
qualified individuals to be recruiters for j 
a behavioral research study involving 
gay men. Candidates will recruit 
participants in gay nightclubs and must 
be very out going and possess a 
background in sales. This part-time, 6- | 
month position has flexible hours and 
the average salary is $10 an hour, 
commensurate with education and 
experience. If interested, please look at | 
our Web page http:/lwww.thestudy.org i 
or send a resume and cover letter to 
Mike Anderson, Project Coordinator, 
t/ieSTUDy, 3811 O'Hara Street, Pittsi 
burgh PA 15123-2593. EOE.
Classified Rates
1-20 words..........$10.00/wk
21-50 words.........$12.00/wk
51-100 words.....$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THETARTN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Rhys Conlon/Tartan Contributing Editor 
out of 34 events in their first meet of theThe Tartans rolled
Volume 94, Issue 8 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 25 October 1999Volleyball posts winningest record ever
Tartans lose key 
match-up in UAASwimmers start season 
with huge wins at home
By GRANT CATTON
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU football team took the field 
for their last home game of the 1999 
season versus long-time UAA opponent 
Washington University last Saturday. 
CMU has dominated this match-up in 
the past, but on Saturday, things were 
different, as CMU was handed its sec
ond loss of the season.
0, Washington.
It was not that way for long, though. 
CMU got the ball on their own 42-yard 
line, and on the first play of the drive, 
senior quarterback Russ Clay completed 
a 58-yard pass to junior wide receiver 
Mike McLaughlin for a touchdown. CMU 
was back in the game, down only 14-7.
CMU started the first half with a costly 
turnover, and the second half started 
the same way. After an unsuccessful
Early mistakes cost the Tartans dearly, as they missed out 
UAA title in a loss to Washington University of St. Louis.
start 
to clinch the
CMU got into trouble early when 
Washington caught an interception on 
the second play of the game and ran it 
back for a touchdown. CMU stayed tough, 
however, and blocked the extra point, 
holding Washington to just six points. 
The rest of the first quarter was 
kept scoreless.
CMU started the second quarter with 
the ball on their own three-yard line. 
They were forced to punt after three 
plays and a gain of only one yard. Wash
ington then had the ball on the CMU 34- 
yard line, and, after eight plays and a 
fourth-down conversion,, scored their 
second touchdown of the game. A twopoint conversion later, the score was 14-
drive early in the third quarter, CMU 
was forced to punt. Washington had 
been getting dangerously close to block
ing many of CMUs punts, and this time 
they not only blocked it, but picked up 
the loose ball and ran the ball back for a 
touchdown, too.
To add insult to injury, Washington 
intercepted a pass on the first play of 
CMUs next drive. They were stopped 
short this time, though, and the rest of 
the third quarter was an even game. 
Neither team moved the ball, and there 
was no more scoring in the quarter.
Washington struck again early in the 
fourth quarter, scoringon a 38-yardfield 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 10
By MATT BRUN
Tartan Sports Editor
The CMU swimming teams kicked 
off the 1999-2000 season last Satur
day with a double dual meet against 
Franklin and Marshall College and 
Wittenberg University. Both the mens 
and womens squads are looking to 
improve upon last year?s third-place 
finishes at the UAA championships, 
and they wasted little time in 
showing that this goal is well within 
their reach.
The Tartans dominated the meet, 
sweeping the team competitions. The 
women defeated Wittenberg 181-113 
and Franklin and Marshall 177-90, 
while the men tallied scores of 193- 
101 over Wittenberg and 165-89 over 
Franklin and Marshall. The perfor
mance was especially satisfying for 
the mens team, who avenged a loss to 
Wittenberg last year.
Last year, Wittenberg beat us by 
12, so beating them by [92] was nice,
year. Both squads looked to be in mid-season form after seven weeks of training.
head coach David Belowich said.
CMU dominated nearly every aspect 
of the meet, placing at least one swim
mer in the top four in every event, and 
winning 24 of the 32 events. Depth was
another key factor for the Tartans, as 
the teams racked up a combined 17 sec
ond-place finishes, six third-places, and 
nine fourth-places.
Please see SWIMMING, page 11Soccers unbeaten streak
 7continues with tie in UAA
By DONNYDEBARR
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens and womens soccer teams 
played three games this past week, 
and finished with a combined record of 
1-1-1. The men played two of the 
three games, and earned a win on the 
road Tuesday against Penn StateBehrend and a tie at home on Friday 
against a tough Brandeis squad. The 
women were defeated in their only 
match by Brandeis on Friday.
In a match which proves to be diffi
cult year in and year out%r the Tar
tans, the men hit the road and trav
eled up toward Erie to face a suppos
edly outmatched Penn State-Behrend 
team. Once the match commenced, CMU 
immediately owned the run of play. Af
ter pounding the Penn State-Behrend 
defense relentlessly, senior Doug Jones 
knocked in a goal from only a few yards 
out to give the Tartans a 1-0 lead.
Only minutes later, the Tartans added 
another score to increase their lead to 
two goals. The goal was scored by junior 
Dave Zupon, his ninth goal of the year. 
Zupon is currently first on the team in 
scoring, and has been the leader of the 
CMU offense.
CMU carried their 24-0 lead into halftime. The second half read slightly dif
fer entfrom the first, though. The tough
Penn State-Behrend squad refused to 
roll over and die, and managed to seize 
the reins of the match and give the 
Tartans trouble throughout the half. 
They were finally able to score a g 
, later in the half, and the Tartans lead 
was cut to 2-1. CMU emerged victori
ous., though, riding the strength and 
consistency of a great defense to the 2- 
1 win. This win would hopefully prove to 
give the Tartans some positive momen
tum to carry into Fridays match 
against Brandeis.
Fridays game paired the CMU men 
with a difficult conference foe in the way 
of a tough Brandeis team. Every year, 
Please see SOCCER, page 10
After sweeping through yet another tournament, the CMU volieyball team is expecting 
nothing less than victory at the upcoming UAA championships.
points to stun 
Grove City and 
take the game 
15-9. The mo
mentum carried 
into game three, 
where the Tar
tans finished off 
the Wolverines 
15-9, taking the 
match 3-0.
We were put 
under a little 
pressure, and we 
played well be
cause of it, said 
Webb. Right 
now were confi
dent even when 
were losing.
It was good to 
have some chal
lenging competi
tion and pressure 
situations to pre
pare us for UAAs 
mentally, said 
Szobota. I went up against some 
pretty big blockers which was 
good because it gave me practice 
against the type of people well 
see next week.
The last match of the day, and 
of the Tartans regular season, 
was against Kenyon College. Af
ter the tough competition of Grove 
City and Daemon, the Kenyon 
game was almost a well-deserved 
rest for the Tartans, and Webb 
gave the entire bench playing 
time. There was nothing that 
Kenyon could do that CMU 
couldnt handle, and a combina
tion of unforced errors and CMU 
dominance spelled a 3-0 Tartan 
win, 15-6, 15-8,15-1:
The dominating play of the 
Tartans last week of regular sea
son action puts their season 
record at 34-5 and will most likely 
solidify a fifth-place regional
ranking in NCAA Division III. 
The focus now is toward prepar
ing for the UAA Championships 
next weekend at Brandeis. Webb 
is proud of the accomplishments 
of the team this season but cau
tions the team against being con
tent with past success.
We are accustomed to winning 
and were satisfied, she said. 
Thats a dangerous position to 
be in. Im not satisfied. Theres 
still a lot we jieed to do.
Ive tried to make practice as 
hard as possible to make up for 
the lack of competition, she said, 
commentirig that the Tartans fo
cus will be on defense and the 
transition game, two keys to tak
ing the UAA Championships 
next week.
The format of the UAAs divides 
the nine teams into three pools 
based on performance at the UAA
round robin earlier this year. The 
winner of each pool will move 
into the Championship bracket 
and compete for first through 
third places, while the other two 
fit in either the fourth through 
sixth bracket or the seventh 
through ninth.
The Tartans will face Brandeis 
and NYU in their pool, two teams 
that CMU defeated at the round 
robin. Webb predicts wins in both 
games, which would award the 
Tartans a berth in the champion
ship bracket where they will most 
likely face national Division III 
powerhouses Emory University 
and Washington University of 
St. Louis.
Asking any player on the team 
for a prediction will yield the same 
response  the Tartans predict 
and even expect to win the UAAs.
Please see VOLLEYBALL, page 11
By BRIAN SMITH
Tartan Special Projects Manager
At this point in the season, five 
more wins is all in a weeks work 
for the womens volleyball team. 
In action on Wednesday, Friday, 
and Saturday, the Tartans pad
ded their win record even more to 
finish the regular season 34-5, 
and got some challenging compe
tition as a warm-up for next 
weeks UAA Championships.
The teams [in Saturdays home 
quad match] were a lot harder 
than what weve seen over the 
past few weeks, said senior Sa
rah Putaro.
It is hard to tell by the scores, 
however, that the Tartans were 
challenged at all, as they lost 
only one of 16 games in the 
five matches.
The action started on Wednes
day evening as CMU hosted Seton Hill College. While the com
petition may receive an A for 
effort, the outcome of the match 
was never in. doubt. The Tartans 
were the dominant team and fin
ished off Seton Hill in three 
games, extending their winning 
streak to almost 30 games with
out a loss.
Sometimes I wish wed lose a 
game or two so we would have to 
work a little bit harder, said head 
coach Julie Webb after the Seton 
Hill win. But even when we are 
down, we come back and win the 
game and match. We all just 
know that we are going to win.
The setting was much the same 
on Friday night as the team trav
eled to Meadville, Pennsylvania 
to take on rival Allegheny Col
lege. The Tartans had already 
played and defeated the Gators 
3-0 in the John Carroll Univer
sity tournament last month, so 
they had an idea of what they 
were up against.
Megan Adriance/Tartan Junior Staff
The Tartans lost their first game in over two weeks, but didnt lose a match on their way 
to their third straight tournament victory.
[Allegheny] was much more 
competitive this time and gave 
us a pretty good run, said Webb. 
Nevertheless, CMU blanked the 
Gators again 15-11,15-6, 15-1.
The team was ready for work 
again Saturday morning as they 
hosted their second quad match 
of the year. This time the compe
tition was Daemon College, Grove 
City College, and Kenyon Col
lege. Daemon was first on the 
docket and surprised the Tar
tans by taking the second game 
and handing CMU its first loss in 
over 35 games of match play. The 
Tartans took the next two games, 
however, and beat Daemon 15-
11, 12-15, 15-3, 15-6.
The next match of the day was 
against Grove City, a team the 
Tartans had never beaten before. 
It proved to be the teams hardest-fought 3-0 win of the year. 
CMUs front line, lead by senior 
Stephanie Szobota and sopho
more Sara 
Lechleitner, 
seemed im
penetrable, 
and the Tar
tans easily 
took game 
one 15-9.
After trad
ing points to 
a 3-4 Wolver
ine advan
tage in game 
two, Grove 
City took five 
straight, put
ting CMU in 
a 3-9 hole. 
Seemingly 
unfazed, 
CMU was up 
to the chal
lenge, and 
rallied for 12 
consecutive

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 94, Issue 8
T TITTI rIl 310 H l SU S3iHlD 
L1V11
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania25 October 1999
IUP001300
uchf
HGH SCOREhskdhhComputer games 
take a byte out of 
spare time
Students take entertainment to next I seel
By ELIZABETH DODSON
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
It is 5:30 and I am walking 
down the hall clutching my stom
ach, hoping I reach my room be
fore I lose my last meal. Flopping 
gratefully onto my bed, I try to 
remember whatever possessed 
me to try the game in the first 
place. No, I am not talking about 
beer bowling. It is 5:30 pm, not 
am, and I am perfectly sober. The 
cause of my discomfort: a halfhour game of Half-life. Im motion-sick.
At a college campus where com
puters almost outnumber stu
dents, it is not surprising that
one of the most popular pastimes 
is computer gaming. The avail
ability of quality multi-player 
games played through the cam
pus network has added a new 
dimension to computer games and 
made them even more popular. 
While there are nearly as many 
different games as there are play
ers, they seem to generally fall 
into two categories: complicated 
strategy games in which the goal 
is to conquer new lands and de
stroy enemies, and shoot em up 
games in which the goal is simply 
to destroy  everyone. Consid
ering that the most advanced 
computer game I had played was 
a three-year-old version of Jane
of the Jungle (a favorite of my 
fathers, go figure), I thought I 
had better experience some of 
todays games for myself. It turns 
out, I had to look no further than 
my own dorm.
My first trip into the land of 
gaming was in Donner One West. 
The game of choice on this floor is 
Counter Strike. Like on many 
floors in the dorms at CMU, the 
guys on this floor log onto the 
network and play against each 
other on a regular basis. These 
days, most of them usually keep 
the ^^l^sessions a half-hour 
^to an hour in 
length, but when 
they first discovps, most of the 
3 ^4gggg^kses:m
ered the joys of networked games 
at CMU, this was not the case.
The first time we played to
gether, we played for about three 
or four hours, said Jos Lee, firstyear mechanical engineering 
major. We didnt care about 
work; all we cared about was do
ing this. The best part is that you 
dont play by yourself. You play 
with your friends.
From One West, it was down to 
the basement to try out a game 
for myself. The game that is 
played the most on this floor is 
Half-life. This game is very 
similar to Counter Strike in that 
both are of the kill-everythingthat-moves genre. It is the little
differences like weapons, graphcomputer s< |my|||||yj| its, com
are much lore than 
11*. In one 
'amming 
assigne game, 
eview of 
skills, it 
hance to 
ts more, 
loberts of
ics, and the layout of the different puter game 
levels that tend to cause heated a way to pa 
debate among players over which f the begi ning proj 
game is superior. For instance, in courses in 
Counter Strike, the players rnent is to rite a sim 
work together in two teams, The acth 
where as in Half-life, it is every necessary p|ogrammn 
man for himself. The reason the 
players keep coming back is get to know 
simple, according to 
Billy Maurer, a firstyear student in CIT.
Its great stress re' 
lief, unless you 
[stink] at it, he said.
However, accord
ing to James Roberts, 
advisor to first-year
gives the p
heir stud(
flavHHiegie Mello
MkAdi
and is a lote 
thii-assignn 
AfwCar 
have go: 
and ha1
W _puter science | ajor A 
and his 
Please see tfPUTERi
Adam Grossl/Tartan Art Staff
By BALAep SARPES
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
If you happen to walk ij 
shopping mall sometimes
epare for holiday computer game rush
it would be advisable to be 
ared for subdued Christmas 
humming through the PA. 
un, or boughs of holly peek;hrough many of the shop 
iows. Although it is not even 
nksgiving yet, or even Hal(loween for that matter, 
the holiday shop
ping season prepares to swing into high 
gear. Already, certain rtailers 
are beginning to feel the on
slaught of frenzied consumers 
looking for Christmas presents. 
Where are many of these happy 
consumers going? To computer 
stores and the like, often in search 
of... you guessed it, games.
While there are a plethora of 
chain stores and small outlets in 
the local area that sell computer 
games, there are a few that stand 
out in terms of popularity and 
reputation. These include Elec
tronics Boutique, Babbages, 
and Best Buy.
Electronics Boutique, or 
EB for short, is probably 
the store that most eagerly 
seeks to sell games to
young adults. As the manager 
said, The particular demo
graphic we aim for is the young 
male, age 18 to 24. This sales 
goal becomes apparent after 
walking into the store. 
The shelves are stocked with 
games as far as the eye can see. 
Computer games, Playstation 
and Nintendo 64 games, even 
games for older systems. There 
are computer accessories for en
hancing your playing experience, 
hint books galore, and, of course, 
those plentiful, ubiquitous gam
ing magazines.
Of course, if you are not quite 
such an intense gamer, but you 
still want to find some entertain
ment, you can always visit 
Babbages. While not as focused
on games as EB, Babbages still 
appeals to that gamer-at-heart, 
but carries a larger variety of 
games and does not try to draw 
only young males.
Unlike some other stores, we 
try to appeal to gamers of all 
ages, even women, said the man
ager. And while our weakest area 
might be the so-called religious 
fanatics, we even have some soft
ware that appeals to that par
ticular market.
Indeed, Babbages has a wider 
selection of games than EB does. 
In fact, they even sell productiv
ity software, such as Microsoft 
Office and various other pro
grams. Their main focus, 
however, is still the gamer, and it 
shows on the shelves.
But what is a gamer to do if he 
does not want to go the mall? 
Well, he can just cruise on over to 
Best Buy, a technological mecca 
in its own right. While Best 
Buy is not entirely focused on 
software, let alone games, they 
nonetheless have a sizable selec
tion of titles to choose from.
The clientele here is definitely 
a bit more diverse than at the 
mall stores. Youll still see teen
agers roaming through some of 
the aisles, examining games they 
probably cant afford, but youll 
also see adults browsing for a 
present, or perhaps for something 
to reduce their productivity. 
Of course, not everybody comes 
in here to buy games  some 
Please see STORES, page Lll
Arcade offers entertaining opportunities for procrastination
By GAIL RONEN
Tartan Staffwriter
The dining hall located next to 
the O offers more than just a 
place to sit while ingesting copi
ous amounts of meat and grease. 
Perhaps you dont pay much at
tention to the arcade nestled com
fortably in the back of the room, 
but the entertainment^t offers 
could very well be preferable to a 
night spent nursing a bottle of 
Pepto Bismol,. Carn Evil,
Gauntlet Legends, Power 
Stone, Soul Caliber, and 
Episode I are the five arcade 
games available in the dining 
area, and offer a variety of game 
styles from shooting to role-playing to pinball. Many of you may 
already be familiar with these 
-computerized gods of procrasti
nation, but for those in search of 
new ways to prolong that pro
gramming assignment, heres a 
brief rundown of the stellar en
tertainment located only a short 
walk away.
 The Epi
sode I pinball 
game, based 
on this 
|ummers 
blockbuster 
film, Star 
Wars: Episode
I, is brand new 
with the lat
est, extremely impressive 
holographic special 
effects. It is a new 
type of pinball game 
that is more inter
active than the stan
dard pinball game.
Not just a ball 
bouncing around,
Episode I also has 
missions for the 
player to undertake 
and bad guys to kill.
Some of these mis
sions include a light 
saber battle with 
Darth Maul and a 
shoot-out as Queen The arcade at 
Amidala is forced to battle 
against the evil droids. 
This game tends to keep a crowd 
around it.
Carn Evil is a battle against 
the walking dead. (No, the walk
ing dead in this case are not over
exhausted CMU students.)
Bryan Kaplan/Tartan Acting Photo Editor
level gets pretty 
high for this 
game, bringing 
back old memo
ries of the 
archaicDuck 
Hunt game 
from before 
Nintendo 64.
Next up,
Gauntlet Leg
ends, by Atari, 
is a revamped 
version of the old 
classic, now fea
turing 3-D
graphics and 
more realisticthe 0 is a welcome diversion to overworked students.
Armed with a gun, the player has voices. It is one of the few games 
to defend himself from these suthat remembers a players place 
pernatural beings. This game is in the game according to initials 
a good test of anyones marksand an optional password. In 
manship, as the baddies come in Gauntlet Legends, the players 
fast and furious, armed with axes goal is to descend through the 
and knives soaked in the blood of dungeon and find the hidden treaprevious players. The difficulty sure. In each round, you are
placed in a level of the maze and 
the idea is to find the exit without 
dying. Along the way you will 
find power-ups, magic potions, 
experience points, and so on. 
Since this game remembers your 
position, it has a lot more replay 
value than other games, where 
you start from scratch each time.
Power Stone is a tough 3-D 
fighting game. What differenti
ates this one from the others is 
that instead of fighting it out in a 
bare arena, in this game you are 
placed in an environment with 
lots of obstacles and objects to 
throw such as boxes, chairs, and 
tables. Power stones placed at 
random places in the arena pro
vide special moves for the player 
who picks them up. Power Stone 
is Capcoms first release for Segas 
Dreamcast. The games roots 
at Capcom show through as a 
more Japanese style of artwork 
Please see ARCADE, page Lll

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  25 October 1999
College Briefs
COLLEGE OF 
FINE ARTS
On Tuesday, October 26 at 7:30 
pm in McConomy, a lecture titled 
An Overview of Jews in Opera, 
with a Concentration on Richard 
Tucker, the American Caruso, will 
be presented. Mark Weinstein of 
the Pittsburgh Opera and Ken 
Metzler of the Pittsburgh
Symphony Orchestra will partici
pate in the lecture.
For futher information, please 
contact Judy Greenwalt at
421-6660, or Kate McClintock 
at x8-3050.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
OF TECHNOLOGY
On Thursday, November 4, 
Dianne Pawluk, a post-doctoral fel
low in the department of 
Biomedical Engineering at Johns 
Hopkins University, will present a 
lecture titled Analysis of the 
Tactile System in the Hand. 
Pawluk will discuss many aspects 
of this subject including her work 
in developing models of the 
mechanoreceptive system in the 
hand. The talk will be held at 4 pm 
in the Scaife Hall auditorium.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF 
INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
HUMANITIES & 
SOCIAL SCIENCES
One of the best ways to learn 
about different summer opportuni
ties and how to get them is to talk 
with other H&SS students who 
have successfully completed sum
mer jobs or internships.On 
Thursday, October 28 in Rangos, 
the Career Center will be holding a 
program called Stepping Stones: 
Internships to Careers.
For more information or to sign 
up, contact Beth Miller at 
bm3m+@andrew. emu. edu.
MELLON COLLEGE 
OF SCIENCE
On Wednesday, October 27 at 3 
pm in the conference room of the 
Mellon Institute, Ralph Greenspan 
of the Neurosciences Institute of 
San Diego will present a talk 
titled Less is More: The Subtle 
Genetics of Behavior. The 
Neurosciences Institute is an inde
pendent research institution dedi
cated to unraveling the mysteries 
of the brain.
For further information, see the 
Bio Department Web site at 
http://www.bio. emu. edu!Courses/ 
03412/.
SCHOOL OF 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
On Tuesday, October 26 at 4:30 in 
Wean Hall 7500, Dr. Ben Wegbreit, 
Chairman of E.piphany, Inc. will 
present a special seminar titled 
Anatomy of a Start-Up. Many ele
ments of E.piphanys success can be 
traced directly to its origins. Many 
other elements of its success can be 
traced to correcting the flaws 
of its origins. This talk will 
analyze both.
For futher information, please 
contact Catherine Copetas at 
copetas+@cs. cmu.edu.
Lecture examines psyche of students
By HEATHER FRANTZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Noted for their diversity, Carnegie 
Mellon students appear to not always 
have a lot in common on the surface. 
However, the topic of a lecture present
ed by the University Forum last week, 
which presented information about 
what students have in common, was 
The Psychology of a CMU Student, by 
Michael Bridges, a professor of psychol
ogy who specializes in stress. Bridges 
presented information from a study he 
conducted last year along with results 
taken during past freshmen orienta
tions at various schools, including 
CMU. Bridges stated his two main 
goals of the forum were to suggest what 
might motivate students and to raise 
questions. He said, This is a spring
board for discussion.
First Bridges presented information 
from his own study, which involved 
students prioritizing goals in their 
lives. Goals direct peoples behavior, 
he said. In the study, he took remarks 
from subjects such as [Id rather] die 
young, and happy, than young and 
sad, and I want someone who I can 
be open with and can love me, and 
characterized them according to 
objectives. Some of the most common 
goals stated were happiness, success, 
health, relationships, money, and aca
demic career. Less common were emphasis on goals such as recognisports, travel, leadership, influence, tion from colleagues, becoming an 
and leaving behind a legacy. Bridges authority in their field, and as being 
also pointed out that the data collectfinancially well off as students at 
ed was from subjects who volunteered other schools. However, CMU stuAmnony u Auria/lartan Knoio stan 
Michael Bridges explains why CMU students act the way they do.
for the study and so was not random.
By using the results taken from a 
national survey, Bridges also com
pared CMU with other selective, pri
vate institutions. The graphs pre
sented showed that CMU students 
placed about the same amount of
dents placed lower values on raising 
a family, participating in community 
action, and being community leaders. 
The data also showed that students 
here rate themselves lower in selfconfidence and public speaking than 
other schools, but higher in their
artistic and mathematical abilities 
than the other institutions.
After the presentation of material, 
the floor was opened to discussion 
where some of the students voiced , 
concern that students are segregated 
into their majors and so do not partici
pate in group activities and do not have 
pride or spirit for the school. One stu
dent suggested that in order to solve 
this problem, a core of faculty and stu
dents must work together to create ; 
positive experience and then others 
would follow. Sarah Gross, Student 
Body President, said that she did not 
agree with this concern and that she 
felt students have a closet pride that 
they do not express because of 
peer pressure.
Students also discussed how, often, 
Carnegie Mellon appears to be the sec\ 
ond choice of scholars who only see the ! 
University as a means to an end. 
People at the forum suggested that students need to realize what 
tremendous opportunity CMU is and 
how these years are the best in 
peoples lives.
Bridges told attendees that he was 
not trying to suggest anything with the 
information presented, but merely 
showing some provocative, informal 
results. He said, I thought it would be 
interesting to see how students look 
at themselves.
Boogie nights...
ON CAMPUS
On Friday, October 29, in Posner 
152, at 3:30 pm, Dr. Robert 
Weismantel of the University of 
Magdeburg (Germany) will present 
a lecture titled Discrete 
Relaxations of Integer Problems. 
On Wednesday, October 27, in 
Posner 261 at 3:30 pm. Michael 
Woodford of Princeton University 
will present an economics seminar 
titled Inflation Stabilization 
and Welfare.
Students Di a dance that took place over the weekend in the E-Tower of Morewood Gardens. The dance, which lasted into the evening, was well attended.Seminar supports Microsofts
By KEVIN BABBITT
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Should a person be penalized for being 
too successful? Richard Salsman 
answered, no. Salsman, a senior vice 
president and senior economist for the
H. C. Wainwright company, came to 
CMU last week to give a talk entitled 
The Lynching of Microsoft: The
Injustice of Antitrust, sponsored by the 
CMU Objectivist Club.
Salsman argued that the 
Department of Justices antitrust suit 
against Microsoft, and antitrust laws 
in general, are immoral and contrary to 
the goals of capitalism. Furthermore, 
he said, it was the software giants 
rivals who were guilty of unjust use of 
force. He opened by comparing the 
antitrust case to the lynching of a black 
man in the deep South in the 1950s. He 
said the successful Microsoft was being 
lynched through antitrust laws simply 
because it was successful.
Microsoft is innocent of all charges, 
but it has no way to show it under cur
rent antitrust laws, Salsman said. 
The firms own products and its own 
success are being used to weave a noose 
about its own neck.
A central theme of Salsmans argu
ment was the distinction between polit
ical power and economic power. 
According to him, political power is the 
power to force involuntary submission, 
wherease economic power is the power 
to trade benefits with those you choose. 
He said that computer manufacturers
freely chose to sign contracts with 
Microsoft to include its Internet 
Explorer Web browser with installa
tions of its Windows operating system, 
but the companys rivals countered 
with force.
Netscape and others responded not 
by offering a better product, but by run
ning to Washington, Salsman said. 
The government has a legal, unchecked 
monopoly on the initiation of force.
Such an argument met with a wide 
range of reactions from the audience. 
One attendee, Systems Development 
staff member Ken Tew, was asked to 
leave during the question-and-answer 
session because he so strongly objected 
to Salsmans talk. Tew said he felt 
Salsman had left a number of facts out 
of his talk which changed the nature of 
the argument.
He claimed that theres. no such 
thing as economic force, that Microsofts 
contracts were not coercive, said Tew. 
But if [computer retailers] didnt sign 
contracts, they would have to pay retail 
price to install Windows on their sys
tems, and the cost overhead incurred is 
not affordable by the industry, driving 
them out of business.
But, Salsman argued, contracts are 
by their very nature restrictive, and 
their restrictiveness doesnt change the 
fact that companies enter into them 
voluntarily. He said that the govern
ments job was to make sure that com
panies upheld contracts, not to write, 
rewrite, or break them using their 
political power.
Salsman illustrated his point on the 
difference between Microsofts econom
ic power and the governments political 
power with an example. In your first 
year after college, send Microsoft  the 
alleged robber baron  no money. Send 
the government no money. See which 
comes after you, he said.
He also said that antitrust laws ran 
against the fundamental nature of cap
italism  that capitalism is, by defini
tion, a competitive system, and if there 
is competition, there must be a winner. 
Antitrust laws penalize success, not 
success achieved by force but by pro
duction, he said. They codify envy.
Furthermore, he noted, even when a 
corporate giant does emerge from such 
a competition, it is not guaranteed to 
remain so permanently. As an example, 
Salsman mentioned that IBM was 
under a similar attack by trustbusters in the 1970s, when no one 
knew of Microsoft. According to him, 
the company eventually went into 
decline because it spent so much time 
fighting antitrust cases that it failed to 
continue creating new ideas.
Even under capitalism, large firms 
fail to keep innovating, said Salsman. 
But these firms receive no special 
attention.... Investors withdraw and 
reinvest capital when an industry 
loses profitability.
Salsman also said that the textbook 
model of pure and perfect competition 
was unrealistic. According to this 
model, a perfect market exists under 
the following conditions: Every induspractices
try has hundreds of firms, the potential 
entrants have cost-free access to entry, 
each firm has no power to influence 
price, within each industry prices must 
be indistinguishable across firms, prof
its must be nonexistent, and every firm 
must have costless and perfect infor
mation about the market. Salsman said 
that such a model came about because 
of a moral sense of whats right, not 
realistic consideration of capitalism.
[Pure and perfect competition] is 
based on a moral code so widely spread 
that its applied even where impracti
cal, he said. A firm winning the com
petition is perceived as a market fail
ure ... and the solution is government 
policy to fix it:... Clean competition 
really means no competition.
A question-and-answer session fol
lowed the talk, in which attendees 
raised a number of points both favoring 
and opposing Salsmans argument. 
Reactions were mixed  some seemed 
swayed by his case, while others 
walked out during both the lecture and 
the question-and-answer session. Mike 
Tolan, a first-year computer science 
major, said he felt Salsman was wellversed on the topic and presented a 
strong argument for laissez-faire capi
talism. However, Tolan stopped short of 
agreeing with Salsman that antitrust 
laws are bad outright.
If Im coming straight out of college 
and Im trying to write a word proces
sor, its hard to get funding due to the 
massive number of products available, 
he said.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  25 October 1999L3
The Geek Beatby Kevin Babbitt
If you dont stop someone from driving drunk who will? Do whatever it takes.
FRIENDS DONT LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK.
NEW HAVEN, Conn. (UWire)IYale Daily News  To 
many Yale University Students, 
there is something more impor
tant than midterms.
Tuesday night, about 100 stu
dents gathered to hear Charles 
Kernaghan of the National 
Labor Committee and two 
Salvadoran factory workers, 
speak about the conditions 
under which Yale apparel 
is made. Yale Students 
Against Sweatshops and other 
groups organized the .8 pm 
speech at the Yale Law 
School Auditorium.
The meeting opened with a 
video called Something to 
Hide, which documented the 
conditions in which the two 
women worked.
One of the speakers, Sonia 
Beatriz Lara, 23, worked in the 
factories since 1994 and was 
recently fired for talking to 
Columbia University students 
about the conditions in El 
Salvadors factories.
This is only one of the many 
workers rights that the 70,000 
workers in 225 factories lack in 
El Salvador and other thirdworld nations, organizers said.
There is no way for workers 
to get together to defend our 
rights, Lara said. Also, we had 
to work from 6:50 in the morn
ing until 7 at night, without a 
break  nothing more than 
lunch. Starting last April we 
had to work all day, including 
Saturdays and Sundays. If we 
didnt work on Sundays, we had 
to stay all night on Saturday, 
until 5 am..
Overtime was not optional.
They told us we had to work 
hard  until we died, she said.
This often ended up at almost 
72 hours of overtime every two 
weeks, but the workers had to 
accept the extra hours if they 
wanted to keep their jobs, 
she said.
According to Kernaghan, who 
spoke for the National Labor 
Committee at the meeting, the 
wages that workers like Eva 
and Sonia receive are below a 
humane minimum, and there
fore violate their rights.
Minimum wage in El 
Salvador is a hoax, he said.
The government considers 
food the only item necessary for 
life when calculating the mini
mum wage, excluding clothing 
and shelter, Kernaghan said. 
He added that the legal mini
mum wage, the equivalent of 
U.S. $4.79 a day, is only 28 per
cent of the cost of living 
in El Salvador.
These numbers are the reason 
that students at Yale are
pushing for a living wage 
for workers.
Activists said the first 
step towards establishing 
a living wage is to 
disassociate from the Fair Labor 
Association, whose practices 
and minimum wage establish
ments are unacceptable.
This push is a reflection of a 
national movement led by the 
United Students Against 
Sweatshops, one of the associa
tions supporting Eva and 
Sonias visit.
Yale is the first stop on a 30- 
college tour that Eva and Sonia 
are making to kick off the anti
sweatshop campaign.
This campaign has gained 
force at Yale recently, with 1,700 
Yale students signing a petition
demanding the three objectives 
of the USAS to be enacted 
by the University: public disclo
sure of the location of factories 
producing Yale apparel, the 
opening of these factories to 
independent monitoring, and a 
living wage for all employees at 
these factories.
Yale President Richard Levin 
promised Monday in a letter to 
Yale SAS that the University 
would officially require public 
disclosure of the factories, but 
he made no mention of the other 
two objectives.
Kernaghan emphasized that 
students can help.
Corporations greatest fear is 
that the students will take inter
est in this issue, he said. They 
can make a huge difference.
FEATURES
Is looking for writers, as always, to cover 
guest lectures, campus-wide events, inter
esting CMU personalities, and, in general, 
anything that deals with living on campus. 
For more information, please email asgupta+ 
or call X8-2111 and ask for Aseem.
Sweatshop workers tell graphic story 
of making clothing for Yale University
CMU: consider approach 
toward network integrity
Ever read School is Hell by Matt Groening? Its 
a compilation of his Life in Hell comics themed 
around his educational experiences. In one series 
of strips, he presents his fifth-grade diary, which 
talks about such joys as gym class, icky girls, and 
essays about the life cycle of the paramecium that 
were arbitrarily assigned as punishment for goof
ing off in class.
I suspect Groenings fifth-grade teacher now 
works for CMU. People who had their campus 
network connections pulled last Monday for vio
lating copyright law are now being offered the 
opportunity to get them back early by attending a 
lecture and writing a one-page paper on why their 
action was in violation of copyright laws.
Those students who were rightfully busted fofc* 
distributing copyrighted material should thank 
their lucky stars that CMU is still here to hold 
their hand and shield them from lawsuits from 
the RIAA and other bodies. Personally, I think 
CMU should let them face the consequences 
themselves and take responsibility for their 
actions, rather than resort to elementary-school-, 
level reinforcement tactics. Somehow I doubt that 
if students are caught doing such things after 
graduation, the judge will let them off the hook in 
exchange for a one-page paper.
But then again, busy, broke college students 
like those at CMU probably cant afford either the 
time or the money for such a court battle. So 
despite my opinion about personal responsibility, 
its good that Computing Services is enforcing 
both their own policy and copyright laws. But I 
think theyre taking the wrong tack to enforce it.
The problem with a one-shot, high-publicity 
weep followed by a slap on the wrist is that its 
mly a temporary fix. To the best of my recollec
tion, this is the first time in my three-years-plus 
at CMU that such a check has been done. The 
reason its ineffective in the long term is that the 
students that are impacted will eventually grad
uate, and new students will just come in and com
mit the same violations. Worse, the penalty 
theyre receiving  loss of network connectivity 
for only the remainder of the semester, or restora
tion by November 14 in exchange for the paper  
is hardly discouraging.
Instead, Computing Services needs to enforce 
these policies more consistently. Having a regu
larly scheduled sweep would be futile  everyone 
would quickly catch on and take their shares off 
the network for the one day  but having six to 
sight irregularly scheduled random checks 
throughout the year would work wonders to cut 
down on illegal distribution of copyrighted mate
rial. In order for students to comply with network
guidelines, Computing Services must demon
strate its intent to enforce them.
However, a key component of such a sdheme of 
random checks is that Computing Services has to 
get it right. A number of students were, discon
nected for having legal MP3 music files pn their 
systems. Granted, Computing Services owns and 
administrates th network infrastructure and as 
such is fully entitled to disconnect any computer 
at any time for any reason. But if the reason is 
illegal distribution of copyrighted material, they 
should check first to make sure that there actual
ly is copyrighted ihaterial present in public fold
ers on that computer  and that access to that 
copyrighted material can be gained through legit
imate means. That means no guessing passwords, 
not even obvious ones. Doing so implies by analo
gy that, for example, a persons Andrew account is 
publicly accessible if they have a trivial password. 
While there are widely used passwords for stores 
of copyrighted material, its difficult to draw the 
line between obvious and non-obvious passwords, 
and so the only reasonable solution is not to guess 
them except where there are established stan
dards such as anonymous FTP.
Furthermore, while getting the password to a 
private share in a publicly available readme file 
constitutes legitimate means, Computing 
Services should be careful about such files stating 
that the owner will give out the password upon 
request, because its still at the owners discretion 
to do so. Id suggest getting a dummy account 
through Hotmail or some similar service and 
sending a request to see if the owner will really 
give the password out to anyone who asks. If they 
do, then the share is fair game. But if not, then 
its not reasonable to assume that it contains ille
gal material.
More consistent enforcement would also rea
sonably allow for a warning system, something 
which Computing Services is not obligated to pro
vide but would promote better goodwill with the 
student body than suddenly pulling connections. 
At least one student posted that they lost home
work they were doing at the moment their com
puter was disconnected, and while it was their 
own fault for sharing out copyrighted material, it 
seems to me to be a needless stress.
Heres what I envision: Three or four times a 
semester, Computing Services randomly scans 
75-100 computers on the campus network for ille
gally; shared material. Those that have it are 
noted, and the owners are warned. On the next 
scan, those computers are checked again, and if 
theyre still sharing copyrighted content, 
theyre disconnected.
Copyright laws exist to protect the intellectual 
property of talented artists and software develop
ers. Enforcing them on campus should as such be 
a natural network maintenance function rather 
than a scare tactic pulled out a little early for 
Halloween. This is a university, and were all 
adults. Lets leave the grade-school punishments 
in grade school.
Kevin Babbitt is a senior computer science 
major. He is originally from Massachusetts, which 
to his chagrin has recently bestowed upon itself 
the nickname of the dot-commonwealth. 
Research shows value of 
elite university degrees
PRINCETON, N.J.  (UWIRE)/7%e Daily Princetonian 
Though steadily rising college 
tuition is most apparent at toptier schools, a recent study by a 
Harvard University economics 
professor suggests that these 
colleges and universities are 
worth the price.
Professor Caroline Hoxbys 
study concludes that sacrificing 
the extra cash to attend a rank 
1 school  those with the 
highest selectivity  rather 
than a state school, is justified 
in the long run.
One of the things people 
often don't appreciate about 
private colleges is that they 
offer more financial aid, 
she explained. Financial aid 
makes these schools an even 
better value, according to 
her findings.
Hoxby found that during 
the first few years of work 
after graduation, alumni of 
rank 1 schools often recover 
the extra tuition they spent. 
In addition, students who
receive financial aid can earn 
as much as 30 times the dif
ference between their expens
es at a rank 1 school and at a 
rank 3 school.
The costs of the universitys 
financial aid initiative, along 
with other expenses, will 
continue to push university 
tuition higher. This year, 
Princeton tuition increased 3.5 
percent from last year, and 
Provost Jeremiah Ostriker said 
he anticipates a continued 
rise indefinitely.
Increasing salaries drive 
tuition costs steadily upward 
even though the rising 
endowment helps defray the 
cost to students, Ostriker said. 
The present tuition, Ostriker 
said, covers roughly one third 
of the University's expenses 
per student.
Despite the continued 
increases, a report similar to 
Hoxbys completed by Wilson 
School professor Alan 
Krueger in July reinforces the 
notion that investing in a
highly selective school will 
reap rewards.
Krueger, who co-authored a 
study estimating the payoffs 
of attending a selective 
college, responds to doubts 
about paying for elite school 
tuitions with an emphatic, 
Yes, it pays. Graduates of Ivy 
League colleges and other topranked schools consistently 
earn higher salaries than 
those who attend lessselective institutions.
Krueger reports that the 
average tuition charged by the 
school is significantly related tp 
the students subsequent earn
ings. But she acknowledge? 
that the kind of students accept; 
ed by elite colleges may be des; 
tined for success and high earn; 
ings even if they choose lessselective schools.
Kiplingers Personal Finance 
magazine opts for a different 
ranking system, concluding 
that it is not always worth 
attending an expensive bigname school.
Diydii ncipidii/ lai idli Ulllig rnuiu CUIIUI
A wood sculptor created a slew of different creatures outside of the UC last week.
Bethany Cartlalgc 
In-line sitata:
T'-ball sluggei: 
Drnnk driving victim. 
January 18,1?LM 
Chcmw, SC.

---------------------------------------------------

Phi Beta Kappa members of the university 
conrurvurdty extend their congratulations to the 
following students, who were initiated into 
Upsilon ofPennsylvania, Carnegie Mellons 
chapter ofthePhiBetaKappaSociety, on 
Tuesday, October12,1999.
College ofHumanities Si Social Sciences:
Candice Amich 
Amy Berger 
Joshua Feira 
Rebecca Fribush 
Erin Hahn 
Geoff Kaufman 
JeanVettel
Mellon College of Science:
Carolyn Calisti 
Cindi Dennis 
David Fooksman 
Elizabeth Litzinger 
Jessica Merlin 
Devin Sullivan
School of Computer Science:
Blythe Dunham 
Carl Meister 
Mark Plesko 
Merle Romesberg
It's not too late to enter Pittsburgh's 
Business Plan Competition.
Have a great idea for a new business or 
product? Then put it on paper and enter 
Pittsburgh's first business plan 
competition, EnterPrize.' And you 
could win up to $50,000 to get 
your idea started.
This contest is a terrific 
opportunity to meet venture 
capitalists and other business 
specialists and to learn howeriTERPRIZE
to write a business plan. With the help of 
EnterPrize's support network, you'll also get 
the input, the insight, and maybe 
even the financing you need to 
help get your idea off the ground.
For more details and to register, 
visit vww.enterprizepgh.org or call 
412-804-3060.
Who knows, it could be the 
start of something really big.
ORGANIZED BY: CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY, OUQUESNE UNIVERSITY, INNOVATION WORKS, MCKESS0NHB0C AUTOMATED HEALTHCARE 
MCKINSEY & COMPANY, PITTSBURGH TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL AND UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH.
SPONSORS: ADAMS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: BIRCHMERE INVESTMENTS; THE HEINZ ENDOWMENTS; INNOVATION WORKSMORGAN, LEWIS 8 B0CKIUS LLP; SAFEGUARD SCIENT1F1CS; TRIANGLE CAPITAL; VENTURE BANK @ PNC
THE TARTAN
currently has openings in many departments  and you can join anytime. So if you want to be a 
part of CMUs student newspaper, email gnofi+@andrew or call x8-2111 and ask for Greg.
Forerunner.Seeker.
Big Picture Observer.
! came to Apple because of the cool products. And I'm still Itwe 
because of what it takes to make those products-big ideas, complex 
projects and incredibly bright people."
Steven
Hardware Engineering
www.appie.com/jobs
Meet Apple employees and lie the first to hear about 
our hew products and technologies.
Information Session
October 2tli
lie sure to drop by your Career: Placement, (filter 
for time and location.
On-carapus Interviews
October 28th-2')th A November lst-ith
Think different.
Arrk Cxiffci hi J-.-1xjtc vTStfntowa I  ih: frocf* /dm*>v Iniha wr u.ijsw ;*ppU.Kii'n fcm'Jl
MW Art*:Osspa?t.-|rKAU * ttx-n'wL Apple ,.i>i div Appi.- |t)> wM ,Apf4 wpuiir. toe '
All the Digital Power in 
the Palm of Your Hands
www. omniplayer, com
Good Weekly Income
Processing mail for national company! Free 
supplies, postage! No selling! Bonuses! 
Start immediately! Genuine opportunity!
Please rush Long Self Addressed Stamped Envelope to: 
GMCO, P.O. Box 22-0740, Hollywood, Florida 33022
Paramount1 s Kings Island will host.
performer auditions and technical ^ 
suppori interviews for Paramount Parks 
2000 Entertainment program in:
rsS&tt ySiV,
W , Co'^w, W 4:00-5:30 pm Donee
Inhuman ^ Qanien Youhave ntgisgo frefb99
' +1* 400 7 nnlDanceCenlre
iff fsr1.'tainyyll m p.l pm Aadwgo, 
For more information call 513.754.5740
or visit our website at www.audltionnow.com
Pa/amount Parits Is an equal opportunity employer.  &  1999 Paramount Pariu./
f

---------------------------------------------------

Look! Up in the sky! Its a bird! Its a plane! Its... a plane. 
Ever see that old Twilight Zone episode starring 
William Shatner, where he imagines a goblin outside, 
breaking vital components? That goblin always reminded 
me of my Aunt Nancy. Whenever I saw her after that, I 
always pictured her gnawing on an airplane wing. It was 
always good for a laugh  until I saw her doing it one day. 
I told that pilot not to cut off my Aunt Nancy. Wooaah!
ummm mm
by Scott Adams
KEEP IT up, PAL, No! No/ 
AND IT'S GoiNG NOT OUT 
To BE iMPoSTHE WINDOW/ 
SlBLE To FiMD. ILL SOFFER
\ I in Silence, 
I PROMISE/
IM GOING To SPEND AN 
ENTIRE DAY WITH A GlRL.' 
I LL BE SCARRED FoR LIFE/ 
ALL FoR A AdamGr osi/TtnT 
Sda/ PoK^MoN CARD/
WHAT WAS I THINKING?/ 
WHAT SYNAPTiC MALFUNC
TION LED To THIS ?.'
SCIENCE I CANT BELiEVE 
MUSEUM, r AGREED tn fr 
orir -r tnIi csitari ea 
unlgJ ENdW hdgvb EBdpJ
WRITE ON A SCRAP OF PAPER THE NAMES OF EMPLOYEES COHO DO GREAT WORK AND PUT THEM IN THE HAT INP nhhdugjv
AND THEN DO YOU SELECT ONE NAfAE 
gMusT*wggX teRECEIVE VALUABLE REWARDS? /----
NO, THE SCRAPS OF PAPER MAKE MY HAT MORE COMFORTABLE.
LEAVE THE WALKiE 
TALKIES on THE Bus, IAS oN.
Do Rny MEAN 
REALLY CLOSE? 
SoRTA ,GnArx 
KiNDA CLOSE?
COULD 
You DEFINE 
WHAT YOU 
MEAN BT 
"CLOSE'?
TASoN, YOU 
HAVE A 
QUESTION?
ALL RIGHT, CLASS, I WANT 
EVERYONE To STAY CLOSE
To ENgdB pMBECgBW EnbMDj 
THE MUSEUM is A BIG cvMugj
(YOUR PROTECT 15 ^VITAL TO THE FUTURE OF THE .COMPANY, SO I CLEVERLY OFFERED TO ELIMINATE IT, KNOWING THEY L .(COULDN'T ACCEPT.
NOOJ THIS 15 THE FUNNY PART... I--
EVERY DEPARTMENT WAS ASKED HOW IT COULD REDUCE ITS BUDGET TEN PERCENT.
AND you
NEXT EXHIBIT, SAID THlS 
YOU'RE STANDING WOULDN'T 
BEHIND ME. BE
-y . FUN.
.1(r ar(ri Arra AI,o 
frsItRjjj AI,o rGrmsa,rj 
AyuN pgBhguEdnC yp 
,GeAr G.$r to.Aj
COOL/ AN ACTUAL BE
VACUUM TUBE FROM STILL, 
THE ORIGINAL MY
gCdMu unlpyEgBJ NgMBEj
s-8 RnyPBg 
Ao 
SWEET/DO YOU WANT A PICTURE OF MET
NO, I LIKE TO LOOK, r AT THEM , LATER. J
PHOTOGRAPHY IS MY NEW HOBBY.
*d0g dE up, 
TASoN. I'M 
NOT 
HTPNoTiZED.
THIS 
FOUCAULT 
PENDULUMS 
A RlP-OFF.
YoRE GETTING SlEEEEPY..
HE WAS TOO UNINSPIRED TO FINISH SWALLOWING. C~ZZ
MY LONG-TERM PLAN IS TO DRIFT INTO A JOB COHERE I HAVE NO IMPACT ON ANYTHING. /--
You WON T NOTICE ME SNEAKING ----J/pN ----- FFF^YOUR EYEUDS ARE HEAAAVY..
,eIG/ Rny AT AND HAVE TbU 
LEAST UNDO fnGt st tor
ENdW NMCbuyhh SdBWE WdVC 
IatdG torax eS /IA$x
\ FAT CHANCE.~xr
OUR FEATURED PRESENTATION,
v )ENg inlMCEdu yCd0gBWg8)
WILL BEGIN IN A FEW MINUTES.
WELCOME To THE E.F. 
YouNG PLANETARIUM, 
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.QUESTION: CAN I TAKE A PAY CUT INSTEAD. I----
... IF YOU DO A GREAT JO&ij YOU GET TO GO ON A GOLFING DAY WITH CO-WORKERS.
I DECIDED TO TRY MOTIVATING YOU. I
...IN EXCHAN6E FoR A 
CHARiZARD P0KEM0N 
CARD/ THATS WHY 
I'M SMILING/ Do YoU 
HEAR ME?? MoM??
CoME BACK HERE-/
I WAS EILEEN JAC08S0NS 
| PARTNER ON OUR CLASS
= field trip today.1 ij=
MY, MY - SOMEONE
HAS A SPRING IN 
HIS STEP.LATELY, I'VE BEEN FEELING A LOT OF PRESSURE TO DO ' WORK. j--\j-----
WALLY, DO YOU REALIZE THIS IS YOUR JOB?
THERE - THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT I'lA TALKING ABOUT, r-----
The ideas and opinions expressed in the comic strip FORE do not necessarily 
reflect those of The Tartan or its staff, although they should.
I saw you sleeping, Fore!
You're fired!
I I wasn't sleeping!
I was doing mental 
I math!
I'll run the errands, but the 
gopher job ends at gnawing 
on logs, you sicfcie.
You need a job, huh? I might 
know of a position to fill...
Well, you'd be sort of a "go-fer. 
You know, ruining errands, do
ing odd jobs. What do you say?Ooh, long division! 
This'll take me awhile!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  25 October 1999
A COLLCCION Of NONfflJIIUB AND CAPTUREDmm, as suc is lby james mojonnier
Til 1T3by lin
funky's dating tips:
the ultimate in 
romantic pleasures!
tip 21: compliment your 
date on her clothes
Aon + you V\*v-& 
.oi^-e+Vxn5 Mort
)
OHHHH *AH
tip 79: order the salad, 
women love that shit!
tip 33: hold the door 
open for your date
Aa i lootf liif-d? 
(X Aoori^op?!
tip 202: ask to spend 
the night
ding dong
i II V\*,v-e +IAJO b*bi-S
A,r\A *, siA* of Fr-&ncVv*\*n
tu*. (I Vv^vt*. 
S bo++l<. oF
cH**\p<v)r\- vo^
NEXT: funky in hell
The Harder They Are The Farder They Chew
I Didn't Even Make Fun of Jar Jar Binks
by: James Kenney (email: jpkenney@andrew.cmu.edu)
u(r Cr8 nS o vSSi /oTv( ds CaSfdav 
f(S 8STG oTidramr dsV x8 oTidramr 
mSasdsns EGdboGd/8 SI br oai oa8 SI b8 
IGdrais N ISGmr nS Groi b8 mSbdm on 
vTaESdanM SG sEroG(roiESdanV u(onzs 
f(8 n(ds mSbdm dsazn ITaa8M fdn( oa r/dnr 
oTidramr N moa monrG nS n(rdG arrisV
r/n Nzhr irmdiri nS boGCrn b8 mSbdm nS 
o /oGvrGM bSGr idhrGsrM noGvrn oTidramrV 
u(onzs f(8 n(ds mSbdm ds vSdav nS 0r 
o// o0STn .noG oGsV W(M n(r m/ossdm no/r 
n(on nSTm(ri STG (roGns da n(r :Szs oai 
;SzsM aSf Grhdhri da n(r 90zs fd// 0r 
vGron bonrGdo/ nS ndmC/r 8STG nTbbdrsV
(S da n(ds mSTanG8 n(on ds o0/r nS Groi 
oai ds bSndhonri raSTv( nS srrC mSbdm 
0/dss da mSbdm ISGbon (osazn srra Sar 
SI n(r bShdrs da n(r .noG oGs srGdrsV 
,hra d//dnrGonr IS/C moa raOS8 b8 mSbdmM 
EoGnoCdav SI n(r hdsTo/ (TbSG b8 
rUmr//ran/8 rUrmTnri iGofdavs EGShdirV
The Phatmaster
u(r hosn obSTans SI damSbr b8 aSf 
aondSao//8 s8aidmonri mSbdm vrarGonrsM 
fd// 0r bSGr n(oa raSTv( nS mShrG oa8 
/rvo/ Irrs SG mSE8Gdv(n daIGdavrbranV
.S LTCrs sdnndav da E(8sdms m/oss &noTv(n 
08 KSio} oai KSio osCsM2 sr n(r ISGmr 
SI snoGndav IGdmndSa &bT} ds f(onM 8rs2
mhcj c jr.(0 ajjfjj : e \v
At long last, I have created 
my fuzzy logic-based analysis 
system, which derives all of 
its inferences from the 
fundamental axiom that Reno 
is the biggest little city in 
the world.
Now, to test this baby out.
What is the answer to the 
question of Life, the Universe, 
and Everything?
We've all been dying to know.
Five Minutes Later...
MONEY, CASH, AND HOES, 
RESPECTIVELY.
is

---------------------------------------------------

get paid to surf the web
www.AIIAdvantage.com
National Coming Out Day
In celebration of National Coming Out Day. some members of emu's community show their support for people of all sexual orientations.
Enesha FairluckJeff Carpenter 
:Friends call me Droopy'
Stephen C. Ulrich, Jr. 
feetina Facilitator. cmuOut
Jesse D. Mendelsohn 
"Tower of Power"
ElissaNL. Ernst 
'Straight, butriotnarrow.
Joshua D. Walstrom 
Treasurer, cmuOut
Michele DipietroTom MaherAlan T. Gardner
*cmuOut is funded in part by your Student Actvities fee

---------------------------------------------------

STUDENT TRAVELn aa le
Plan your escape from 
the comfort of your own | i 
dorm room.
www.statrave .com
TRAVEL
We listen & help!Fr1
No obligation. 
You have all
the choices!
1.800-943-0400
www.adoptionscrvices.org 
'----------------------------
^ A licensed, non-profit agency
EARN UP TO $1000
* This Semester *
By posting your 
Lecture Noetes Online 
Register on-line now: 
@ www. S tudv24-7 .com 
(888)728-7247 
FREE CLASS NOTES!
STUDY24-7.COM
Suffering? Chronic Headaches? Back Pain? Neck and Shoulder Pain?
Our office has been treating patients with 
problems like these for 20 years with great 
success. Chiropractic is a safe, effective, and 
natural approach for the treatment of these and 
other conditions and can facilitate a better state 
of heath for you!!
Consultation Report of findings TreatmentX-rays if necessary!!
Berman Chiropractic has been semng the PITT (Appointments neCeSSary!!)
and CMU communities and is conveniently 
located on N. Craig street near the universities. ~Introductory office visit $25.00
Berman Chiropractic 128 N. Craig Street Suite 210
687-1112
Its that time again! 
Flu Shots
When and Where:
Monday, October 11, 1999 
Tuesday, October 19, 1999 
Thursday, October 28, 1999 
Thursday, November 9, 1999
1:00 PM-4:00 PM 
12:30 PM-4:30 PM 
9:00 AM - 4:30 PM 
10:00 AM -4:00 PM
McKenna Room - UC 
Purnell Center Lobby 
Student Health Service 
Health & Fitness Fair - UC
-, Cost:
C.M.U. ID REQUIRED
$ 5.00 for faculty, staff and students 
$ 10.00 for spouses of faculty, staff and students
Recommended for:
1. Individuals under 55 years of age or older.
2. Individuals with chronic lung or heart problems, including asthma.
3. Individuals who have required regular medical follow-up or hospitalization during the 
preceding year because of diseases including diabetes, severe kidney problems, or 
problems with the immune system.
4. Individuals who are taking medications that suppress the immune system.
5. Teenagers up to and including 18 years of age on long-term aspirin therapy.
Sponsored by Student Health Services and the Division of Student Affairs
Comments?
Questions?Gripes?
email tartarH-@andro/
0MANDALA
211 S. Craig Street Open 7 days a week
 Metaphysical Books 
& Videos
Green Tea & Tea Sets 
Artwork & Jewelry 
 Tarot Decks & Books 
 Spiritual & Meditative 
Music
 Chiropractic Treatment 
 Massage Therapy 
 Intuitive Readings 
 Hands on Healing 
 Astrological Charts.
and Reports 
 Tarot Readings
662-2703
LET TIAA-CREF HELP 
YOU BUILD A SECURE 
FINANCIAL FUTURE.
For over 80 years, TIAA-CREF has 
been the leading retirement company 
on America s campuses. But experience is 
just one reason why so many smart 
investors trust us with their financial 
future. Here are a few more:
Superior strength
With over $250 billion in assets under man
agement, TIAA-CREF is the worlds largest 
retirement organization - and among the 
most solid. Its one of the reasons why 
Momingstar says, TIAA-CREF sets the 
standard in the financial services industry.1
Solid, long-term 
performance
We seek out long-term opportunities that 
other companies, in pursuit of quick gains, 
often miss. Though past performance cant 
guarantee future results, this patient philos
ophy has proven extremely rewarding.
Surprisingly low expenses
TIAA-CREFs operating costs are among 
the lowest in the insurance and mutual 
fund industries.2 So more of your money . 
goes where it should  toward ensuring 
your future.
Easy diversification
We offer a wide variety of expertly 
managed investment options to help build 
your assets. We make it simple, too, with 
stock, bond, money market, real estate, 
and guaranteed options.
Unrivaled service
We believe that our service distinguishes 
us from every other retirement company. 
In the most recent Dalbar survey, 
TIAA-CREF ranks tops in participation 
satisfaction.3
Call today to find out how TIAACREF can help you build the financial 
future you want and deserve.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it."
To find out more  give us 
a call or visit our website
1 800 842-2776
www.tiaa-cref.org
Momi^oar VkrUbk AnnuHo/Lik. 10/30/99. 2Suniiri&Poor's rnunuxr RMlng Analyils, 1999; and Llppcr Analytlca) Scrvtc. Inc.. Lpper Dizmcn'AiuUykaJDou. 1999 (quarterly). DALBAR. Inc.. 997Dtfiixd CenlrtbuUon Exnlktxt RtUnp. Far more compiop InTarmacion. lncludlns charR and expeme. all 1 800 842-2733. ext. S509. fot CREF and TIAA RJ Ejtate Account prwpectm. Rad them cmrefully beton you tmw oc end money. TIAA-CREF Individuai and InRltuUonal Servio dlKrtbotes CREF certificate nd tnterau In ti TIAA Rea! Estate Account.
We DO THE RESEARCH OH CEtLUUR, 
longDistance so you can decipe whats ri&ht fop. Yo.
v:

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Volume 94, Issue 8The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania25 October 1999Play offers driving guide for highway of life
By JENNIFER PETRENI
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
When there are road signs, life 
is giving you a warning.
The Pittsburgh Public 
Theaters production of How I 
; Learned to Drive did more than 
just warn the audience to Yield, 
Go, Merge, Stop, and Caution. 
The signs more implicitly re
minded one of Hidden Driveway, 
Last Chance, and, of course, Soft 
Shoulders.
Paula Vogels 1998 Pulitzer 
Prize-winning play paralleled the 
admonitions of driving with the 
life of Lil Bit, a woman in her 40s 
recapping her past history. Lil 
Bit takes a bumpy ride through 
her teen years filled with pot
holes, one-way streets, and, un
fortunately, no bridges.
The play begins as Lil Bit in
troduces the audience to a car 
scene that occurred when she was 
17 years old. Bit is sitting in a car 
seat that is set on a windy and 
curvy stage, designed to look like 
a real road decorated with an 
array of street signs and bill
boards. She sits with an older, 
married man. There seems to be 
a bit of tension in the car as one 
sees the man pursue her for a 
slight amount of intimacy. He 
mimics feeling her chest as she 
sits robotically in the next seat, 
delivering her lines. There is noth
ing graphic about this invisible 
sexual encounter, yet there is a 
dark, creepy sensation about the 
event, especially when we find 
out that this older man is in fact 
her Uncle Peck.
How I Learned to Drive con
tinues to reflect on the years of 
Lil Bits life between 1962 and 
1979. She breaks the third wall 
to the audience and narrates her 
story and journeys 
through her discovery 
that driving does not 
always necessarily 
mean revving up a car.
She shows her family 
life and the vulgarity 
that she lives with.
Her whole family is 
nicknamed for the size 
of their genitalia. Her 
grandpa is Big Poppa, 
her uncle is Peck, and, 
at birth, she was 
deemed Lil Bit, a 
name that her illmannered grandfa
ther will not let her 
forget as she begins to 
develop into a woman 
long before her peers 
at school. Bit reflects 
on the struggles of be
ing a teenager with
out her own father or 
even a family that re
ally understands her.
That is, except for 
Uncle Peck, who is the 
only adult with a sym
pathetic and carings 
nature but ironically is the mem
ber of the family having an inces
tuous relationship with her that 
has to be kept secret.
Uncle Peck is the figure in her 
life who tries to teach her the 
manners of the world. It is he who 
lets her get behind the wheel and 
learn to drive a car. Peck treats
driving like no other recreation 
that the two encounter. He tells 
her that she must learri to drive 
like a man and be in control of the 
road. She must not ever fool
away to college, her uncle sends 
her gifts every week counting 
down the days to her 18th birth
day, a date when statutory rape 
is no longer in effect. Lil Bit mastrained mind frame  a woman 
who is trying to figure out the 
meaning of her relationships. Kay 
successfully develops a character 
that spans ages between 13 and
around behind the wheel because 
her own life is residing in her 
hands. Thus, the control of driv
ing is having a firm grip on the 
road and taking control of your 
own life. The metaphor of driving 
is developed the most signifi
cantly when Lil Bit finally takes 
control of her life. When she goes
tures in this time away from home 
and learns what these details in 
her life are finally about. Her 
strong choices at the end of the 
play impact upon those warning 
signs, allowing her to Stop in her 
tracks and Go on with her life.
Kay Walbye portrays Lil Bit
Joe Hocking/Tartan Art Staff
40. She keeps a strong dichotomy 
between her narration with the 
audience and her role on stage. 
She makes a leap with Lil Bit 
and ultimately finds her longawaited resolution.
Generally a character like 
Uncle Peck, played by John
well-liked. Yet his boyish charm 
and stunning blond hair gives 
him a sensitive and compassion
ate nature. He loves Lil Bit and 
never does anything to her that 
she does not consent to. He 
waits for her and finally 
proposes that they be to
gether. Pecks strong 
points lie in his sad and 
ignorant life, he believes 
that what the two share 
should and will continue. 
It is Lil Bit who closes the 
relationship which ulti
mately shatters his life.
The cast also consisted 
of the male, female, and 
teenage Greek chorus 
played by John Hall, Cary 
Anne Spear, and Megan 
Mackenzie Lawrence. The 
three re-enacted a variety 
of roles including the 
grandpa/waiter/teenager, 
mother/aunt/teenager, 
and grandma/teenager/ 
young Lil Bit.
Director Maureen 
Heffernan created a piece 
that is sure to leave its 
skid mark on The Hazlett 
Theatre, the home of the 
Public Theater until the 
move to the OReilly The
atre in the cultural dis
trict, downtown. How I Learned 
to Drive is the last show that will 
be seen in the North Side, but 
that is not to say that the drive 
across the bridge will not be well 
awaited. Just like Lil Bit herself, 
who is driving onto something 
new and leaving behind memoBizzare film offers insight 
into dark, surreal universe
with a calm but emotionallyOttavino, is not supposed to be ries of the past.Unoriginal new love story 
dances on worn out legs
By CAM CREWS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
As the concept of three people 
participating in a two-person 
dance might suggest, Warner 
Brothers Three To Tango rep
resents one too many in a line of 
comedies based upon sexual 
identity. Two years ago, In and 
Out won Kevin Kline an acad
emy award nomination for a role 
in which his character dealt with 
his sexual identity after being 
identified as being gay through 
the media by a former student. 
Three To Tango, featuring tele
vision stars Mathew Perry and 
Neve Campbell, reintroduces 
this now-stale topic of human 
sexuality to the silver screen.
Oscar Novak (Mathew Perry) 
and his partner, Peter Steinberg 
(Oliver Platt), are architects 
who must pitch their design for 
a new building to business ex
ecutive Charles Newman (Dylan 
McDermott) against a rival 
teams proposal. Charles forces 
the two partnerships into a competition where they 
must present a model of their 
proposals before 
him at a public 
event, after 
which he will 
choose the best 
one.
Charles, how
ever, has things 
on his mind 
other than who 
wins the project.
Charles is in the 
midst of an af
fair with artist 
Amy Post (Neve 
Campbell), and 
finds himself 
deeplyjealous of 
the amount of 
time she spends 
away from him.
After becoming 
incorrectly con
vinced that Oswould have no sexual interest in 
his mistress.
Oscar reluctantly agrees and 
attends Amys art exhibition that 
night. Once there, he unwittingly 
saves her display by rescuing an 
art piece from imminent destruc
tion. Amy offers to take him out 
for a drink to thank him, and the 
two embark on a night of mis
haps while simultaneously grow
ing further acquainted.
The plot appears convoluted 
when put into words because 
there is so little substantive ma
terial behind the complex 
situational comedy. Most events 
within the movie are in 
place purely for the purpose of 
putting Oscar into a situation 
where he is perceived as gay and 
pushed ever closer to Amy. 
Oscars dreams with Amy cannot 
be realized until the misconcep
tion of his sexuality is resolved 
and the relationship between 
Amy and Charles is severed.
The most real relationship in 
Three To Tango exists between 
Oscar and Oliver Platts charac
ter, Peter Steinberg. The two en
dure hardships and make sacriarchitects. Through Oscars 
struggle with societys perception 
of his sexuality, a strong 
emotional bond is forged between 
the two.
However, the movie focuses 
upon the more artificial relation
ship between Oscar and Amy, 
which, although based upon lies 
and deception, is marketed as a 
solid romance and the center
piece of the movie. Mathew 
Perrys character, Oscar Novak, 
is comparable to that of his TV 
persona Chandler on Friends. 
This adds to difficulty in accept
ing his role, combined with the 
strange fact that Oscar is oblivi
ous to the homosexual innuen
dos which prevail throughout the 
film. His inability to assess the 
situation is sometimes humor
ous, but destroys the emotional 
credibility which the director, 
Damon Santostefano, may have 
been attempting to convey.
Though the functionality of the 
plot is suspect, if you are 
looking for a few chuckles and do 
not mind watching yet another 
comedy in the realm of 
human sexuality, this movie may
carNovakisgay,Neve Campbell and Dylan McDermott star in the bland new film Three to Tango.
Charles asks Oscar to follow fices for one another, both strivbe worth a look. However, 
Amy to ease his suspicions, ing to win the project which will Three To Tango is nothing to 
thinking that a homosexual make or break their careers as dance in the aisles about.
By THADDEUS BELLMAN Goodfellas) does an excellent job 
Tartan Staffwriter bringing the film together, as
the film flows effortlessly. 
Bringing Out the Dead is a very The cinematography is also suunusual movie. It is the kind of perb. Addressing the subject
Walls enjoys blood and de
struction. In one scene he is seen 
beating up the ambulance and 
in another, beating up an evil 
patient. The most normal charNicolas Cage as
film that some will rave about 
and others will hate. More spe
cifically, casual moviegoers will 
generally dislike the film, while 
movie buffs will love it.
Set on the streets of New York 
City, Bringing Out the Dead pre
sents an often disturbing and 
highly intriguing picture of in
ner-city life.
The plot of Bringing Out the 
Dead is simple; the film details 
the life of an ambulance driver 
named Frank (Nicolas Cage), who 
says he cant take it any more. 
Furthermore, he believes that the 
spirit of a patient he failed to 
save is haunting him. In addition 
to the haunting, Frank says 
he hasnt saved anyone in a long 
time, and that he needs a 
vacation. Eventually, he finds a 
sort of peace with his life.
That said, Bringing Out the 
Dead is not really about plot; it is 
about visual imagery and char
acter development. Director 
Martin Scorsese (Taxi Driver,
matter in a unique way, the film 
seems almost surreal. It is so 
precise and vivid, it hardly could 
be real.
The acting is a stong element of 
the film, as Cage delivers a 
skillful performance. Minor char
acters such as Marcus (Ving 
Rhames, Pulp Fiction) and Walls 
(Tom Sizemore, Saving Private 
Ryan) are also very well-acted. 
Not all parts are played well, 
however, as Patricia Arquettes 
CStigmata) portrayal of Mary is 
flat and uninteresting.
Presenting a very dark view of 
life, Bringing Out the Dead will 
turn off many viewers, but those 
with an open mind will find the 
film has much to say about life, 
death, and the hardships of being 
an ambulance driver for a living.
 Surrounded by death, each driver 
has turned into a mad man. 
Marcus is obsessed with Jesus 
and a woman who hates him. 
He sustains a super-human 
energy level.
acter, Larry, is downplayed con
siderably in the film. 
He is the exception, not the 
rule, in Scorseses dark world. 
Drug imagery abounds, as the 
themes of illusionary pleasure 
of drugs versus the real pain of 
life are explored. The movie then 
goes on to question the value of 
artificially sustained life, argu
ing that perhaps death is the 
betterof the two options, 
that the spirit wants to leave the 
body,but is forced to stay.
Bringing Out the Dead also 
delivers humor to the film. 
Scorsese produces an often dark, 
morbid presentation of 
the world, while at the same 
time poking fun at it. 
The darkness eventually leads 
to a glimmer of hope, but is 
it real? Its up to us to make that 
decision for ourselves. 
Bringing Out the Dead is a n 
intriguing and worthwhile pic
ture for those who arent too 
concerned about plot.
Frank Pierce and MarcAnthony asNoel in Bringing out the Dead.

---------------------------------------------------

WELCOME FRESHMEN!
YOU COULD START YOUR PAPER THE NIGHT BEFORE
and still get your full three hours of sleep.
kinko's
Express Yourself."
PHOTOCOPYING, PRESENTATION SERVICES, COMPUTER RENTALS, COLOR PRINTING, 
BINDING AND PRETTY MUCH ANYTHING ELSE YOU CAN THINK OF TO MAKE YOUR POINT.1"
BUY ONE GET ONE FREE COMPUTER SERVICE RENTAL
Buy one tail hour compute! omo and receive 7nd lull hour THE In-aor. wllierv* Mjdntojj) or Window ccrapuler rental. Oitlomw mut retlnqush coupon 1 timeo! purchase. Couponnay 
not be reproduced and It not wild wlfh other coupon, oil of discount*. Oller rad at Ittie ol 
puciuio only and raiy not bo Uscounlod or credited to past Mure purchaser. Products and 
set vices vary by location Coupon void where protlUled or restricted by law. No cash value.
VALID AT 3710 FORBES AVE. LOCATION ONLY.
kinko's*Expires 9/30/99
BLACK & WHITE COPIES
Recefte M/T 111* hil-serve. black-and-white copie* on wNte bond for Jwt 4 oach. Dflor Is 
limited to one coupon per customer. Customer must relinquish coupon at liras of puchase Coupon may not be reproduced and I not vaHd with other coupon* otters or discountt. Dfler valid 
at time of purchase only and may not bo liicoimted or crerSled to past or future purdiases. Producti and services vary try location. Coupon raid where prohibited or restricted by law. Ho cash 
value.
VALID AT 3710 FORBES AVE. LOCATION ONLY.
kinko's;jExpires 9/30/99
PITTSBURGH (OAKLAND)  3710 FORBES AVE  412-687-2752 
24 HOURS / 7 DAYS A WEEK  1-800-2-KINKQS  WWW.KINKOS.COM
A SUITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMCJ/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http: //www. shady sideinn. com
INSTANT CREDIT
Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits 
$1^,000 Within Days!
^ No BySRIAM GO LOPM GO HWySTA wIoTSyM GO wSpryIAf eSsOiIAl
no credit  bad credit  no income?nr _ it*ii1 VISA*1
Ji J
If You Think You Can't Get A Credit Card, Think Again.
Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards?
ORDER FORM
I 
1
Name.YES!
GUARANTEED APPROVALI want Credit Cards immediately.
GAC,P.O. Box 220740,Hollywood, FI33022
Address....
City..........
Signature.
State.Zip.
Tired of Being Turned Down?
Guaranteed *10,000 In Credit!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  25 October 1999Lll
DH 2210mm
movies you may have seen before....
GREG NOFI
My Name Is Joe
Thursday, October 28
Song (the original summer camp version):
Hi! My name is Joe! I work in a button factory. 
Ive got a house and a dog and a family.
One day, my boss said, Hey Joe. Are you busy?
I said, No.
He said, Push this button with your left hand. 
The pathetically revised movie version of song: 
Hi! My name is Joe Kavanagh! I used to work in 
a factory in Glasgow.
I have no life and no job and Im recovering from 
alcoholism now.
One day, a successful woman said, Hey Joe, want 
to go out with me?
I said, Yes! But Im currently rebuilding whats 
left of my life and totally not ready for a relationship 
and should say, No. 
She said, Thats all right. Weve got a storyline for 
a movie. Wow! 
At 7:30, 10 pm, and midnight 
In McConomy Auditorium
Wild Wild West
Friday, October 29
Last week, there was a special forum called The 
Psychology of a CMU Student. It was pretty cool 
and extensive, but it missed one thing about our 
psyche: movies.
Thats right. Every summer, theres one or two 
movies that we think are going to be good, until they 
come out with horrendous reviews. Then we cover 
our tracks by telling our friends, Oh, I meant, Ill 
just see it when it comes to CMU for a buck. Dont 
deny it. You know you want to see Wild Wild West.
Heres your chance. Tell everyone that youre check
ing out WWW Friday night, and then sneak to see 
this movie starring Will Smith and Kevin Kline as 
two old-school Western gunslingers. Your friends 
will think youre surfing the World Wide Web, but 
you wont be lying to them since the movie has the 
same abbreviation.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight 
In McConomy Auditorium
The Haunting
Saturday, October 30
Call me an old-timer, but does anyone remember 
the good ol Hamerschlag House, affectionately 
known as Schlag? Back in the day before renova
tion, Schlag was the coolest place, with tooth-decay 
yellow brick in the hallways (plus an occasional 
unpainted gray one), that bizarre smell that suffo
cated Schlagers during the week, and the woodpaneled lights a la the walls of Wean 7500. Now, 
after the renovation, its like kindergarten: You 
cant possibly hurt yourself.
In this movie, a group of people spends the night in 
a place called Hill House. They think they are part 
of an insomnia experiment, but theyre actually 
being tested for fear.
The only difference between this house and the old 
Schlag is that Catherine Zeta-Jones would be too 
scared to endure the attentive, desperate eyes of the 
all-male dorm.
At 9 pm, 11 pm, and 1 am 
In McConomy Auditorium
Dracula 1972 AD
Sunday, October 31
This movie is not unlike Bill and Teds Excellent 
Adventure. It was fanny watching guys like Napo
leon, Joan of Arc, and Socrates (pronounced So
crates) trying to get by in the early 90s in trendy 
parts of California.
In this movie, Dracula is resurrected from the dead 
in 1972,100 years after his death. We get to laugh at 
him as he tries to live in the only decade funnier than 
ours: the 1970s. This movie is classic-horror-filmmeets-That-70s-Show: plenty of weed, bellbottoms, 
and weed. In addition, theres tons of great disco 
music in the background. What more could you want? 
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight 
In McConomy Auditorium
irritici rWnar ^ Less than average Groovy
Use as frisbee iWWV Buy it usedOwn this
Austin Powers: The Spy Who 
Shagged Me, More Music from 
the Motion Picture 
Wea/Warner Bros. Records
It is perhaps the most breath
taking CD release of this autumn. 
Packaged in a striking cyan, ma
genta, yellow, and lime green 
case, the second CD from the 
soundtrack of Austin Powers: The
Spy Who Shagged Me is better 
than the first CD from the same 
movie, and is in many ways bet
ter than the soundtrack from the 
original movie.
The new CD includes tracks by 
such artists as The Monkees, 
Marvin Gaye, They Might be Gi
ants, and even a club mix of 
Madonnas Beautiful Stranger. 
While it is impossible to pick any 
one, two, or even three tracks as 
being the best, there are songs 
that definitely stand out, such as 
Fantastic Plastic Machines 
Bachelor Pad, which was fea
tured in the previews for the 
movie, and also showcases Lords 
of Acids Am I Sexy?. 
These two tracks exemplify the 
best music of the era in which 
they were written and performed, 
as well as fitting the tone of the 
movie  these are songs you can 
listen to repeatedly without get
ting tired of them.
The director of the movie, 
Jay Roach, was personally in
volved in selecting the songs for 
the new release, as was 
Mike Myers. This CD is about as 
far away from the Diet Coke of 
evil as you can possibly getit is 
all that and a bag of potato chips.
ASEEM GUPTA
Arto Lindsay 
Prize
Righteous Babe Records
What? Ani Difranco has put 
out another album? Yes. Well, 
not really. Actually, her record 
label, Righteous Babe Records, 
has, in fact, put out a new CD. 
However, this time it isnt Ani 
Difranco singing and playing on 
that CD. Its Arto Lindsay, and 
his album is called Prize.
Lindsay is an American artist 
who was raised by missionaries 
in Brazil in the 60s and has been 
speaking Portuguese since he was 
three, and some of the songs on 
Prize are in Portuguese. DiFranco 
herself said, Arto has a seduc
tive, sultry songwriting style that 
I really get off on. I think hes 
doing some really interesting 
things with the recording studio 
as a tool.
This album is by no means nor
mal, or should I say, what youve 
heard before. Its definitely out 
there. On this new album, youve
got the non-traditional creative 
explosion of sound, just like on all 
of the other unique Ani-made 
Righteous Babe records. Youve 
got the amazing combinations q*f 
drum mixes and loud guitars and
interesting vocal sequences, as 
an added bonus.
I would say, Lindsay is defi-' 
nitely worth a listen. Actually,;; 
this album is a good material to 
listen to while you wait for Ani;s 
newest album to come out. And if; 
you do get the album, I recoup-' 
mend track 9, O Nome Dela. ' { 
GAIL RONEN;Students put fun twist on homework assignments
COMPUTERS, from page LI
software company called Evergames. 
The company has developed a Starcraftlike game called Fire and Darkness. 
They started working on the program the 
summer before his junior year in high school. 
What started out as a fun challenge turned 
into serious business during their senior 
year, when they decided to try to develop 
their program for retail sale. 
The group took their program to E3, a huge 
retail show where top gaming companies 
premier their new Christmas games in At
lanta, in May of their senior ye^r, trying to 
make contacts and get exposure.
The following August, it was time to go off 
to college, and Heitner and two of the other 
students came to CMU. Although the group
is now spread across the country in different 
universities, they still have plans to continue 
developing the program. Artist and first-year 
computer science major Matt Trentacoste joined 
the team as they worked to improve the games 
graphics and compatibility. It was at this point 
that the group became aware of a new gaming 
show on the West Coast called the Independent 
Games Festival.
The game industry is kind of like the music 
industry, said Heitner. It is really hard for a 
new group to break in because retailers want 
something they know will sell. 
IGF was started to inspire and encourage inde
pendent stuff.
Fire and Darkness was submitted to the 
IGF, and in February the group found out that 
they were finalists in the competition.
They had earned the right to take their' 
program to the festival that March. Heitner 
was unable to attend the festival with thje 
other members of the group, but he recaljs1 
with a spark the day he got the phone call 
from the festival telling him that Fire 4nd; 
Darkness had won first prize. It wafc al 
dream come true, and also an $11,000 grand! 
prize that has come in handy this year' as 
development of the program continues.' 
While the group has not yet gotten a con-! 
tract for Fire and Darkness, Heitner is! 
very optimistic.
I havent shown that game development; 
is a good way to make money, but it is a'lot 
of fun and a real opportunity to do creative; 
stuff across a wide range of media, 
Heitner said.
Stores stock up for holidays
STORES, from page LI
people just want to browse, to see 
what the newest fads are.
I dont really buy that many 
games, said Brandon Readeo, a 
customer. Mostly, I borrow them 
from my friends.
Although the target markets of 
these three stores differ some
what, one trend was apparent. 
When asked what the most popu
lar game in their respective store 
was, each manager quickly re
plied, Pokemon. This game was 
a commercial success to begin 
with, and with the holiday sea
son fast approaching, demand 
for it has skyrocketed.
With all of these choices, where 
does one go for games? Well, if 
youre on a budget and not par
ticularly concerned with selec
tion, Best Buy is for you. But if 
you want to find people who want 
to sell you any game imaginable, 
you should consider EB or 
Babbages. Be forewarned, 
though: With the plethora of com
puter games, accessories, and 
magazines, shopping at any of 
these stores can be hazardous to 
your work.
Games destroy down tim
ARCADE, from page LI
and graphics. It would make a 
worthy addition to any home en
tertainment system.
Soul Caliber has been avail
able for a while. Like Power 
Stone, Soul Caliber is a oneon-one fighting game. The ar
cade version is good for showing 
off your skills in front of your 
friends. However, Soul Caliber 
is beginning to show its age as 
its screen is fading.
Out of all of the games, I found 
Gauntlet Legends to be the 
most addictive, though Carn
Evil has definite potential to 
keep you hooked in for hours.! 
Be careful, though, or you coulcl 
find yourself spending all your 
McConomy movie money on ar-J 
cade games. Most of the game^ 
are violent and bloody, so th^ 
only good skills you will get out 
of them are hand-eye coordiiaa{ 
tion skills.
So, if youre tired of slogging 
through yet another game of com* 
puterized solitaire, then give 
these more interactive games a 
shot. After all, no college woulcf 
be complete without its arcad. \
Educator.
Inspiration.
Lionheart.
Apple circs about its users, especially, education. It's why I joined. 
I've never been disappointed. My fellow employees reflect excellence, 
dedication and commitment to that idea. In mm. customers are still 
supporting our superior products/*
IFWebGbjecK
www.apple.corn/jobs
Mew Apple employees and lie the fits to hear about 
our new products and technologies
Information Session
 October 27th
lie suit to drop by your Career Placement Center 
for lime and location.
On-catnpus Interviews
October 28th-29th & November lstith
Think different.
i il od.' rr*vA\\l. *.ppk jnd he Apri

---------------------------------------------------

My Name Is Joe i
w: ! be playing on i 
Thursday. October 28, at 
7:30 pm, 10 pnfand, 
12:30 am, in McConomy, 
Audilorirlm.-
Wild Wild West
will be playing on 1 
Friday, October 29, at 81 
pm, 10 pm, 12,5(!j,ant^ 
2 am in McConomy 1 
Auditorium. 1
I The Haunting A
I will tie playing on  
I Saturday, October 30, ala 
i8 pm, 10 pm, and 12 an* 
, in McCo.naniy/^:||riu,Ti.B|
October 25, 1999October 31, 1999
Japan
An island nation the size of the state of California, but containing about half as 
many people as in the United States, Japan is a unique industrial country on the 
other side of the globe. The two major religions in Japan are Shintoism and Bud
dhism, and an estimated 99% of citizens over age 15 can read and write. The 
Japanese writing system is unique in that it has no less than 3 alphabets: the 
kana system is used as a phoenetic alphabet, where each character stands for a 
syllable. There are 2 kana alphabets, hiragana, for native words, and katakana, 
for foreign words. The third alphabet, kanji, is a symbolic one and consists of sym
bols taken from the Chinese writing system. Each kanji character stands for a 
concept or idea. Japan actually consists of four main islands, Hokkaido, Honshu, 
Shikoku, and Kyushu, and numerous smaller islands off the coast. Tokyo, Japans 
capital, is located on the largest island, Honshu.
oncampus
Sweepstakes, also known as Buggy, 
will be holding freeroll practices on 
Saturday and Sunday mornings 
through November 14. Tech and Frew 
Streets, as well as the portion of 
Schenley Drive surrounding Flagstaff 
Hill, will be closed from 6 to 9 am on 
those mornings. Community members 
are asked to find alternate routes and 
parking around campus. Cars left in 
the metered areas at 6 am on those 
dates will be towed at the owners 
expense.
Ron Green will be having a talk as 
part of the Open Your Mind Series. 
Ron Green is the Eunice and Julian 
Cohen Professor for the Study of 
Ethics and Human Values and the 
Director of Dartmouth's Institute for 
the Study of Applied and Professional 
Ethics. It will take place on Monday, 
October 25, starting at 4:30 pm in the 
Adamson Wing of Baker Hall. For 
more information, call x8-5865
Flu Shots will be held on Thursday, 
October 28 starting at 4:30 pm in Stu
dent Health Services (Morewood Gar
dens) and on Tuesday, November 9 at 
10 am to 4pm in Rangos Ballroom. For 
more information, call Health Services 
at x8-2157.aroundtown
JCC Orchestra Fall Concert Fea
turing New World Symphony. The 
concert will be held on Wednesday, 
October 27 at 8 pm at the JCC (locat
ed at the corner of Forbes and Murray 
avenues in Squirrel Hill). Tickets are 
available at the door. They cost $6 for 
adults, and $3 for students and senior
citizens. For more information, call 
Kathryn Duda at 421-2703.religion
Hillel is having Shabbat services and 
a Chinese food Shabbat dinner on Fri
day, October 29th. Services will be at 6:30 
pm at the Hillel Jewish University Center. 
Space for dinner is limited, so be sure to 
reserve early. The cost for dinner is $6. 
Please note that you can use DineXpress. 
Reservations must be made by Thursday 
at 4 pm. For more information, please call 
621-8875.
Peters Cellar is open for the fourth year. 
It is a Christian coffeehouse with a time of 
worship in the middle of the evening. This 
is a very relaxed opportunity to meet new 
friends or to go out with the old faithful. 
The music is different every week. The 
event is held Sundays from 7 to 9 pm at 
Albright United Methodist (at the corner 
of Centre and South Graham). The shuttle 
comes within a block. The church is on 
major city bus routes and only five blocks 
from campus. We offer the normal coffee
house food and drink. Entry is free. This 
week, Beyond Reason is performing.
Roman Catholic Mass takes place on 
Sundays at 10:30 am and 8 pm in Mellon 
Auditorium, Posner Hall. It also takes 
place daily at 12:30 pm in the UC chapel. 
For more information, contact the Ryan 
Catholic Newman Center at 681-3181.
Holocaust Museum. Sign up for a 
trip to the Holocaust Museum in 
Washington, D.C. on November 7. All 
are welcome to attend. The trip costs 
$18. Call 621-8875 for reservations 
and information.
Study opportunities in Israel.
There will be an information session 
on Tuesday, October 26 at 7 pm at the 
Hillel Jewish University Center (locat
ed at the corner of Forbes and South 
Craig, above the History store). Zur 
Goldblum will share information 
about the UJC December trip to 
Prague and Israel and a representa
tive from the CMU study abroad office 
will tell students about new programs 
that CMU has in Israel. For more 
information, please call 621-8875.
How I Learned to Drive by Paula 
Vogel, presented by Pittsburgh Public The
atre, is the winner of the 1998 Pulitzer 
Prize. The play will be shown through 
Sunday, November 14 at The Hazlett The
atre on the North Side. For more informa
tion, call Pittsburgh Public Theatre at 321- 
8550.
Compleat Female Stage Beauty by
Jeffrey Hatcher is presented at City The
atre. October 22 through November 14 at 
City Theatre. For more information, call 
City Theatre at 431-CITY.
Moonlight by Harold Pinter is presented 
by City Theatre Studio Series from 
October 13 through October 31 at Lester 
Hamburg Studio Theatre in the South 
Side. For more information call City The
atre at 431-CITY.music
October 26. The show is open to all ages.
The Pietasters, The Pilfers, and 
Spring Heeled Jack will be playing at 
Club Laga on Wednesday, October 27. The 
show is open to all ages. Tickets are $8 in 
advance and $10 at the door.
Crisis (From New York), On the Out
side, 35 Splat, Epsilon Revolt, and 
Myrth will be playing at Millvale Indus
trial Theatre on Friday, October 29. The 
show is open to all ages, and 
tickets are $5.
The Uncool, and others will be playing 
at South Park High School on Saturday, 
October 30. The show is open to all ages.
Opera Dialogues of the Carmelites 
Ferancis Poulenc will be having concerts 
from Thursday, October 28 at through 
Sunday, October 31 at 8 pm in the Alumni 
Concert Hall, College of Fine Arts. Admis
sion is $12.
Red Hot and Halloween is a party at 
Rosebud on Thursday, October 28 at 10 
pm. For more information call 261-2232.
Pittsburghs Second Biggest Hal
loween Party will be held on Sunday, 
October 31 from 7 to 11 pm at the Holiday 
Inn in Oakland. For more information, call 
343-9555..
Sunday Night Jazz Society Party, 
every Sunday evening from 7 pm to 11 pm 
at Foster;s in the Holiday Inn. And Every 
Monday evening from 8 pm to 11 pm at 
James Street Restaurant (located at 422 
Foreland Street, Pittsburghs North Side)
museums
Agnostic Front and No Innocent Vic
tim will be playing at Graffiti on Tuesday,
Fiberart International 99 is the sixth 
biennial statement of the fiber art of our 
time. Artists throughout the U.S. and 
from 26 other countries will be presenting 
their work. The exhibit will be held from 
September 9 to October 30 at the Society 
of Contemporary Crafts (Strip District) 
and the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts 
(5th and Shady Avenues). For more infor
mation, call 363-0204.
Melting Souls, recent paintings by one of 
the premier contemporary artists of 
Indonesia, is the latest exhibition at the 
Hewlett Gallery. The exhibition runs from 
September 23 through October 29. The 
Hewlett Gallery is located on the main 
floor of the College of Fine Arts. Gallery 
hours are Monday through Friday, 11:30 
am to 5 pm, and Saturday and Sunday,
11:30 am to 4 pm. For more information, 
please call x8-3618.
Green Room is the latest exhibition at 
The Clay Place. Green Room, by Denise/ 
Joshua, and Nathan Green, is being 
exhibited from September 17 through 
November 10. The Clay Place is located 
at 5416 Walnut Street. For more infor
mation, call 682-3737.
Image Correspondence is the latest, 
exhibition at the Frame gallery, 
featuring painting and photography by 
Zak Prekop and Carrie Schneider. The 
Frame Gallery, is located at 5200 Forbes 
Avenue. The exhibit will be open from 
Wednesday, October 27 through Sunday, 
October 31. The opening reception is on 
Friday, October 29 from 7 to 9 pm. Candy 
will be provided. The Frame gallery 
is located at 5200 Forbes Avenue, 
For more information and gallery hours, 
call x8-2081. j

Photography by Wingtat Yu is the lat
est exhibit at the University Center Art ' 
Gallery. The exhibit will be running fri/m 
October 26 through November 13. Dur
ing a high school photography class ses
sion, an innocent 17 year-old accidental
ly came across an old issue of Harpers 
Bazaar in the supplies cabinet. Curious
ly, he picked up the fashion magazine 
and flipped through the highly polished 
avant-garde images. The kid truly liked 
what he saw. This was the beginning.... 
For further information, please call the 
Jennifer Lindow at x8-2107.
Watercolors and Indian Trees by
Arundhati Vartak is an exhibit at Hunt 
Institute, on the fifth floor of Hunt 
Library. The exhibit is open from 
September 16th through February 29. 
Hunt Institute is open from Monday thru 
Friday 9 am to noon and 1 pm to 5 pm. 
For more information, call Hunt Library 
at X8-2434.
talks/lectures
Jews in Opera, is a talk by Mark Wein
stein, director of the Pittsburgh Opera, 
and Ken Meltzer, spokesman for the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, for An 
Overview of Jews in Opera With a Con
centration on Richard Tucker the Ameri
can Caruso. The talk will be held on 
Tuesday, October 26 at 7:30 pm in 
McConomy Auditorium, UC. For more 
information, call Hillel at 621-8875.
Map of Japan courtesy 
http://www.odci.gov/cia/publications/ 
factbook/ja.htmi
Reagan Heller/Tartan Art Staff
tace your events 
/ ,trtijers6 
gaiendar.
To place any events on 
the University Calendar, 
please email Behnam at 
behnam@andrew.cmu. 
edu, or tgrtan@ andrew 
.cmu.edu. A detailed 
listing can also besentto 
The Trtan, University 
Center Box 17, via 
campus mail.
pigs-they're not for dinner
of  H e.y p e 
re  dont want ito scrubs
Thanks Derek!!
gromit, in 
car...
-Wallace
cne from a whil ago!#.
i think i'ri! jouddng. 
xeuner trenc r
dont tell p.e you dont. 
worship ar# one ...
-Be'bn,,
no one can be
30 damsn raids of draft ...
"oh, i love this tree!This is iry favorite
Vox Popuii is a forum open to the entire campus community! 
ply email it to tarian@3ndrew.cmu.edu, send it to Tne Tartan, 
 17 via campus mail, or drop it in thgVpx Popuii dri 
Server. '1
tlian, ^,;;OUCH ! i !
' so'last night i had two dreams, ir^jne 1 was
$ peaps. In the other one i was dowftby the sea fishing,
t know one of those fishing boats pm Alaska, all from
and dancing, fishing and $hing.But how the hell 
i) cutting my hand? Maybejecause some one was 
my ca|ia! friday nightdinner. Sojiaybe i will get a 
want^herry coke or sprit, these se nice pretzels. 
fc'WOW there take a step bacji'and then stop, 
she does not get in to tro&le. you know 
music, hey let go of the abuserscount down to 4.
Unimity CALENDAR
Dracula AD 1972
will be playing on * 
Sunday, October 31, at* 
8 pm, 10 pm, and 12 anF 
in McConomy Auditorium. 
fi
For up-to-date campus movj|| 
times, call X8-FLMS. ^
I

---------------------------------------------------

y

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Eoo
CO
oo
a>
hfl tuuQ)
E I E "
sV)ire
03>-
O oo
03
sEco
o
0}
S g
 '5-CD en
> x:
3 wO >,-OC "o 
O g
Q) op
'tn> cu ^ -o   
co 1
 c&fl i o <  > 2= -Om >> 03<
co co CU
E
W E4^ O)CO EL
cuE
_ro
Liro
o
co
03  
CLJD
 E
J
CQ
re
t/5 0V" m
C3 2
03
03
03>
U4
'Lco
I
03
_03aio
03G_
FR.E S
5 oO co

*; g CD E 
cu
ro
CO
"O
roCOp
>%
05
Mc:
'ZI
TOccu
CDE
CcuQ.
0CU
0t=ro
< o 
>, CU)
C\JC0VD00CD
lD
)
u
<
<1>
H
cu
o
a>
cu
Af
a
*H
S
O
ro
= 1 ' 
*|2 03 8  
di <u ! fe  i sz ^"4~ ro
. 3 L
ojr 
.a cj 
  o 
ro -m > ET3cu cu 
j w ^ g :
I ! d 2 . 
iro  ro Sro
.!= -U 
8 - 
5! 35
o SP
i/i a 2 i so I o
n C ZJ O o =3
a 9
TO a) O
a) o 
E E
DO
C jS<u CO
Cl) 
S r
. <u
ro o cu o 
O a)  S  !=
<u c p s 
o t:.rro.E -Q .
C/ <U
CU r >*
2? Eco <u :
_r 5 =-- 7=1
cu c 
$ a>
UJ  OJ _
 to C o5 'S <p o
~r\ K O ^ TO . o ro C 
00   
.E E 
03 O DO ro
cu q3 -
Je 5
CU DO DO n,c c cu> -7Z ~
en c o) ai c I-si
H^ "2 >.
o^t
SSSgsJl
 O.E U g 
13 to = cu c p o aj a) ^ o
 DO > c
DO
DO 
c  3 :2 o -* c  raa) a) .E ! 
E o. "op "<
cu -a 
jy c 'CL - 1sz o -o aj xi
3 c o .3,
. ^ 53  F S3 ^ +-?  r= QflP QQ. >< SZ ~ DO' CUro
o 
>. CI =5 55> O) -"2 ro
* i.
c s o ui "O
a|gE
O (/)
 ~o
Q) C l/l (U
s'S0-=>'/urg'
"O TJ c cr ro os 
-o "o 
ti 8 Eo 
CU
03 1
^ .E op "o _co J .2
11 (U u o 1/1
' ^ .2 - 3 :O  DO . g O :>, c. 13 J 3n
r  S> $ ca
 - c 
68 E ro o "o . 
c o 68 1 -0 J
i -o E
+j r ^rote?s
2 o -
i) E Ec 2 $ 
cu
^ .9P^ 
o ^ k_r sa 5 o ^ c
c a) 55
3 .9--
O" ni T*a 0
C Q) 3 CU ro c/) TO </) fnCD  U v_ ro
cu -5 
 &  OJ CU 
: ^ O Q) 
 -*= ^
i E E S 3 <u - : -Q ^ i d a.a
J "03 -3
CU )Ss
. I  S S 
^ ^ > CU
S ' ? O S-of E
>_ co _ t;
1 ^  s^ co ^
, . Q. (/)
op p
3 3 (ti CU DO
0) c J " o  ;s
1 -S 5
; cu c/) (- (fl w= HCU
!  fi  ' TO c O < TO
:; ^.-g TO  =1 CO O r-,li|| 
CU 3 
= C O)
co CU
i -E
. -a CU
; cu U
G OL DM Ai T. ro 0
) to  E ^: <u $ o o"  ^ > TO>0
u tu  r cu TO J3 r-*- cu o E ;jj=co
DO J
: -Q p.+j'H o
ro p cuQ. E
cu cu
CU CU 
$ $ 
cu cu 
Q. Q.: o o cu cu Q. Q_
i to -f-, r ni <-1
= '$  ' 3
1 S c3 E ro
1 o _ i > cu 3 DO"O H=
.E E
E co 'co 
"Sn s ro
cuN, o <u E .
 0  
S  O . => 3 c 
o E
i ^ ro 
. X3 >, !
^ ro ca ( 
ro a3 $  
% S <u
11 
i 2:
' CO - (
ro DO ;
o So 
a> >, g
Ss5"SlO X cu
ro E
^ ai DO -C =1 X3 
CU<D co
- -d >, o o .
ro o '^_i "t1 1 13 >> g2 i:
o <u E_ C ^ (Ut) o 0) E . -
u $
o"aj ro .
^ co ^
a) g IEti  -a t=o, 0 ro(Uro,-S -Q o -c - =-* o .i= roce:
>> =J ' c
-e cu g - 
*  o
   : CO c _^ =a3 ro 3
a? ~ -
E
 -fi   S' i
Si 'F ro cu
CO -r-w CU COS = .2. S 
ro ro c. cu cu
o   cu DO t75 co '-
 ^-S o ai J
E CL CU o
cu :
- CO
ro cuco c o . cu io>  ro ; 
ro  >Tj~ cu TO fe I
O
NDS
a)
.t
H
o

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

u IrO o n ^  O) ?>, -C
^ 3
S  5Si o QJ 4-J
<g.5
j300>-<
5 I
i - -G T3 w
S*< S o.-a 3 . m 4Ti 2  ^ ftJj ni - X^ 0 5 ni ojn uL t h ,,o o 3 >-<r-- 2 ^ TI 0>\ rr 3 G O< .3  o -a
! ^ c '
5'
o ft CT> dj IM Ti -a o a> 2 r-l 4J> 0* >
t-J nj O O
ra 7 1
43 I -  o  21 a>
X56TA st? c 5 j2 *< X, ;
^3b>>-H
E?j
hkXX
a
00

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

era o 3 3
 CD
CD 2. hs era
= - CD CO 03TO . pi rtfin 
< ? 3 (0
= ^0-0.0
0)^1] c CD 3
- 303 a,
3 Q-C/)O  
CD C/3 u) CD  CO 
 3
CD3 v>~ o'O C/3 O
gffg 
ort 5
3 o
9 CD ul Z IKr* (D  13 OEr cr era rt -cd a cd ro , 3o 03 < c/) ort 5 o a) 8- rt 2 AR Ex
E SSo roj?
CD 03 C/3
CDcrrt3cf
$3-h
3*o
OIf)CD
033CL
3Q.3rt03
03O3
3h
CO
0)CD
<CDCL
h03O
cCOC_
sCLOO^
3-CDOc
 2 03
3
 * 3dr . L13 3- =3 03
CD y1 3
P>
CT 3 c: 2s
r+ TO 3 SO S w 3 CD CD S . ( 
i.  
3 3CD CD
3 .CL
S w
<7? C/> (/)0-^3- _j . . C/1 Ei, tt>
iS  I g 1-
 yS g - 03 $
 CD 3 S' = 3
 o) 3 TO 2s
 = q ^ CD oo Q__ - 03q o o o
5, i> s> 5 = *-
c ___ ? 2s o q 03 ^ _ -+ .-2
F D! * 3 .
 I| 3
hr. < fW m 3" cr
^ QJ ^  -o w 2. CD  w
=< -h r=:- G) CO CLCD O TO ft 'ta,
 ^ 5  o w 3pr cd ^ s 
$ ^ D. CD O CD ^
a' *< era NC
=r o 303 CD 3 v=
= 1  c 
^ ^ O <5 
5 =>
CO CD
m O
3 r-*- -Jco 3" CL
oi S=.CD _ O
7 ~ <
cr CD ""
03 CD
3 CD3 CD
CD 3" O 03 W CD
CL =5" 
a03 ^
CD_ = 
__ 3
Z n 
: Sg2.
: (D $ 3
3- cx 2.CD CD CO __ -j_ 03 .TO
CT TO JD
f a 5c era
CL "D
3 o
CD o rt 3 O C/3
=T Zi _.  ^ D
< O Q)I ^ Ia o kgk i 2
3 3Q3 CD
o  era c/) co
3
CD 03
rt 3CD -o
a 3
 CD
: m ?* 3*0 TO
cr S' w JCD ^ CD CD TO CD A grow"1III 
gSgi'i1 CL g_ O CA 
TO O O
CD C CD W CL 
01 Qj. Ql ^
^ G.C^ ~* 3,DJ O y,to ~ mCD
= O 
O 
o $
<ra a
5T CD ^ CL
' ^ mmCD 3 V) qo
<7>' ,
2- = cr<:
- k   if I
O-a
O TO 
S Q)
h 3
3 0)
c/i
. oT
(D
O r-r -iC 3- 
0 3- OCD CD O
31  3
D) QJ3 >< r-f
a. s' Z Q) TO ZJ 
 i i CDin 111
Is
o TO
cr/ 
o 3>
- 3. o 3 5TO 1/5
 3 S.*< iu
? F is
^ ST I S
3. 3O 03
91 Q)
CD 3
uu 3 ~ t/j rj
rt 3- ~   o  mw gs 
S I It
^ a) s ^
S cr ^o =;. 2s .i
^ - w 3 O TO0 ^ m o 3-
?Vo CDC/1CD
CD
CDoCL
3- 355 CD
| C 
TO ^ 
^ < P"
= Q"* ^ f,I  sCD TO
D) CO
rt B.
Q) CD 
TO 3
m S
S' s; m
cd s rt 3 Oi
So* a -
_ r-to CD
1 cr CD 03  <in TO cd
O  I'
3* | co ro<-r> n\ _ l k ^ i-\3 ?T  O
3 3-CD CD
CU CD
S n>
= m .2 5-
TO $
... sCD CD_. 4, 3- cd 9in 01 
3. O) CD 3 CL rt
t/J
3 2.
CD TO co
r:- ?V .1 8CDCO u,
5J i.
g I5 o 3  re CL _ m 
s ?r
o
< s
''s. c
- C5 VE
 5n S  (D
04 04 NC 2 -CM in "S I
CL W^ ^ 3 Om
 S' CD
ut Q) S' SfL
=s'
CDoQ.
TO
Er o o)
c | 3 <.
7T J x W
o'  O g-m g> S mspvss - CDm 3 ~tCD TO ^ s
<. g31 os f | o 
  a g*
D. i O 3
Q) Q) 3*5^5
M'S Q.ro  0__ CDinm aCD C 
n CD 
O Q)3
Ol
BETWEEN OUR LIVES
