^CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 64  NUMBER 27WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29, 1964
The Kijtie Bond performs in concert.
Greek System 
Represented At 
Worlds Fair
The contributions of fraternities 
and sororities to the cause of 
higher education in American and 
Canadian colleges and universities 
will be told to the world at the 
New York Worlds Fair which 
opened on April 22.
The story will be portrayed in 
t special exhibit jointly sponsored 
by the National Interfraterrvty 
Conference and the National Panhellcnic Conference to be dis
played in the huge Hall of Free 
Enterprise on the International 
Plaza of the fair grounds.
The Hall of Free Enterprise it
self, which is sponsored by the 
American Economic Foundation, 
will be a comprehensive and dra
matic presentation of the bless(continued on page 6)
Theologian Is 
Guest Speaker
On Tuesday, May 5, Robert McAffee Brown will report on this 
years Roman Catholic Ecumeni
cal Council. As a Protestant theo
logian, Dr; Brown has done much 
work with Roman Catholicism; 
including his work, An American 
Dialogue: A Protestant Looks at 
Catholicism. He was invited to 
observe the Council as it discussed 
and decided upon several very 
important issues. Among others, 
tho Council has revised its stand 
on birth control, and the venera
tion of the Virgin Mary. AH in
terested students are invited to 
attend, Tuesday, 11:30, Fine Arts Theater.
Open House
Mens Dorm Council wishes 
to announce that open house 
during Spring Carnival will be 
on Saturday. May 2 from 3 
pjn. to 7 p;m. and not on Sun
day as has formerly been the 
case in the mens dormitories.
Kiltie Band Honors President 
Warner At Annual Concert
The Carnegie Tech Kiltie Band will presents its annual 
spring concert Sunday, May 9, at 8:15 p.m. in the Carnegie 
Music Hall. The band is presenting this concert in honor of 
President and Mrs. Warner, who, through their constant 
interest, have increased the vitality of the activities on the 
Carnegie campus. The concert is* 
open to the public and admission 
is free.
Dr. Strange, director of the 
Kilties, has submitted the follow
ing numbers for the program: 
First Symphony  for Band," 
NewellLong; An Original Suite 
for Band, Gordon Jacob (Philip 
Catelinet, Conducting); Dionysiagues, Florent Schmitt; Petite 
Suie," Claude Debussy; Suite of 
Old American Dances," Robert 
Russell Bennett; and Quick March 
Sea Songs, by Ralph Vaughn 
Williams.
The Kilties have just completed 
their annual tour. This year the 
band visited Maryland, Virginia, 
West Virginia, Washington, D.C., 
and Pennsylvania. The -members 
of the band felt that the trip was 
a success, for wherever they per
formed they were enthusiastically 
received.
Exec Council 
Seat Filled
Allan Pollock has been elected 
to Executive Council of Student 
Congress as the representative for 
the general activities. Al, a junior 
Graphic Arts Management major, 
is a past president of Alpha Phi 
Omega, the Managing Editor of 
the Carnegie Tartan, a member of 
Sigma Nu fraternity, past mem
ber of Mens Dorm Council, a 
member of Pi Delta Epsilon and 
Student Congress.
Brown To Give 
Fair Lectures
Harrison Brown, distinguished 
scientist and author, will deliver 
the second set of this years 
Maurice Falk Lectures at Car
negie Tech on May 6 and 7. The 
over-all title of his lectures is 
The Four -Futures. On. May 6, 
at 8 p.m., he will speak on The 
Past and Present, and on May 7, 
at 4 p.m., he will discuss The Future. Both lectures will be 
given in Skibo Ballroom on the 
Tech campus and are free to the 
public.
Since 1951, Mr. Brown has been 
professor, of geochemistry at the 
California Institute of Technology. 
Previously he taught at the Uniyersity of Chicago arid Johns 
Hopkins University. From 1943 to 
1946, he was assistant director of 
chemistry, Plutonium Project, 
Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
Dr. Brown is a member of Phi 
Beta Kappa, an editor-at-large of 
the Saturday Review, and a mem
ber of the Space Science Board 
of the National academy of Sci
ences. In addition to many tech
nical papers and books, Dr. 
Brown is the author or co-author 
of: Must Destruction Be Our
Destiny?, Years of the Modern, 
The Challenges of Mans Future, 
The Next Hundred Years, and A 
World Without War.
Student Congress 
To Elect Chairman
The chairman of Student 
Congress for next year will be 
nrtAnt cjoneress elected at todays meeting of Confident cong e . gress in the Skibo Wherrett RoomThe general activities represe 4:30 The candidates for this
_1_Afl Aonl . _______T  r*___a*.- .......- * T at 4:30. The candidates ior tnistative election was held on April very important position Joe San20. All presidents of general orulli and Ben Porter will further 
ganizations were eligible to vote explain their platforms and will 
at that time. (continued on page 3)
Midway Booth Judging 
To Open 1964 Carnival
Well, this is it! After many, months of work on the part 
of the Spring Carnival Committee, the 1964 version is ready 
to start tomorrow afternoon at 4:30 p.m. At that time the 
Midway will officially open for business and fun.
Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30 p.m. Scotch n Soda 
1-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:-:-----------------------Owill present its last two perform
ances of Evnod. Doors open atDr. Shoemaker, 
Noted Scientist, 
Visits Campus
One of the scientists considered 
most likely to set foot on the 
moon, will land on the Carnegie 
Tech campus on Monday, May 4, 
to lecture on Exploration of the 
Moon, at 12:30 p.m. in Skibo.
Dr. Eugene Shoemaker, a lead
ing authority on craters of the 
earth'and the moon, is a Visiting Scientist of the American Geo
physical Union. As a geologist 
with the U.S. Geological Survey, 
Dr: Shoemaker has. made field 
studies of volcsnic and meteoriteimpact craters all over the world. 
He has taken , part in laboratory 
experiments on hypervelocity im
pact and in cratering experiments 
with nuclear explosives. As chief 
of the survey's astrogeology 
branch since I960, he has directed 
detailed geologic studies of the 
moons surface, using telescopes 
and photographs.
The past, current, and planned 
exploration of our natural satel
lite will, be the subject of Dr. 
Shoemakers talk. He will remain 
in the Wherrett, Room following 
the lecture from 1:30 to 3 p.m. 
for discussions with students in
terested in the subject or in ca
reers in geophysics or other spacerelated fields.
Dr..Shoemaker will also confer 
with administration and faculty 
members on the new interdis
ciplinary program in Eearth and 
Astronomical Sciences at Carnegie 
Tech.
At 4:30 Dr. Shoemaker will take 
part in a. technical colloquim on 
Mechanics of Hyper velocity Im
pact in Rocks in Porter Hall 100.
Dr. Shoemaker is director of 
the division of Manned Space 
Sciences, National Aeronau
tics and Space Administration. 
He is a member of the Geological 
Society of America, Mineralogical 
Society of America, Society of Ec
onomic Geologists, American Astronautical Society, Geochemical 
Society, Astronomical Society of 
the Pacific, and Commission 16 
of the International Astronomical 
Union.
He graduated from California 
Institute of Technology and 
earned his Master's and Doctorate at Princeton.
Congress Elections
Student Congress will meet 
today at 4:30 in the Wherrett 
Lounge. The election of chair
man and vice-chairman will 
take place. Candidates will pre
sent their platforms and an
swer questions from the floor. 
All interested students are in
vited to attend*
7:45, and seating is on a first-come 
first-served basis. Tickets. for 
these showings are $2.00 per person.
..Fridays action starts early, 
7:00 a.m. to be exact, with the 
judging of buggy designs . in'the 
Skibo parking lot. The prelimi
naries of the Sweepstakes will fol
low at 10:00 with the race order as 
below: Heat 1  Beta Theta Pi 
(00), Alpha Tau Omega (44), and
Delta Upsilon (67); Heat 2 __
Delta Tau Delta (8), Beta Sigma 
Rho (69), and Dorm (4); Heat 3 
. Theta Xi (3.14), Pi Kappa 
Alpha (2), and Sigma. Nu (33); 
Heat 4  Phi Kappa Theta (27), 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon (1), and, 
Dorm (5); Heat 5 Delta Upsilo 
(76), Beta Theta Pi (000), and 
Sigma Nu (3); Heat 6  Alpha ; 
Tau Omega (45), Pi Kappa Alpha 
(17), and Phi Kappa Theta (77). 
The finals will be Saturday morn-- ing at the sam time. Bill Faircloth of SAE is the chairman in charge of the races.
Call Day is in front of Fine 
Arts (barring bad weather) at 
1:00 p.m. Master of ceremonies is 
Tom Miller, who will conduct the 
activities of the afternoon. These 
include the crowning of the 
Spring Carnival Queen, calls from 
various organizations on campus, 
and possibly some entertainment 
from the Piper? or the Kiltie Baind.
Immediately after this, on the 
lawn between AH and EH, the sorority relays will be run, and 
the faculty egg toss thrown. Then, 
at 3:00 p.m. everyone can follow 
Mary. Jacobson over to Skibo 
Ballroom for the first-ever Talent 
Jamboree; This ida has blos
somed, into a major project with 
over fifteen acts auditioning, for 
the program. Come and see, some of your friends performing on 
stage. It should really be great. 
Organizer of the show is Justin Polulack,
At 9:00 p.m. on Friday night The Four Preps will provide an 
evening of song and wit for the . (continued on page 5)
CFP Elects 
New Officers
. On Monday, April 13, at 10:00 
p.m., the Council of Fraternity 
Presidents met in the* Kappa 
Sigma fraternity house to elect 
officers for the coming academic year.
Those elected were Hank Werronen (BTP), President; Rich 
Elkman (TDP), Administrative 
Vice-President; Bill Von Twistera 
(ATO), Executive Vice President;. 
Bob Fritz, (SN), Secretary, and 
Ray Matiisa (DU), Treasurer.
Outgoing President David 
VandeLinde wished the new officers luck in their new positions 
and expressed the hope that 1964 
and 1965 can become important 
years for the fraternity system of 
Carnegie Tech*

---------------------------------------------------

!page 2__CARNEGIE: TARTAN  Wednesday, Aprll 29, 19S
The Delphic Oracle
Kappa Alpha Theta is proud to 
announce the pledging of Ellen 
Maher. We are also proud to have many of our seniors attending 
graduate school next year. Our 
queen candidate, Susan Broadhead received a fellowship for 
graduate assistantship at Hunter 
College. Miriam Mears will be a 
dietetic intern at the Yale-New 
Haven Medical Center. Nancy 
Sutheland will be studying in the 
Public Health at the University 
of Pittsburgh.
Penhellenic Officers List for 
1964-65.President  Lynelle Torno  
KATVice President  Verna Ream  
Chi OSecretary  Carole Breuer  Sig 
KapTreasurer  Judy Pogue  TriDeltChief Justice  Claire Dzatko  
DGRush Chairman  Esther Lieber 
 Ohio O Assistant Rush Chairman  Pat 
Bonner  KKG Publicity Chairman  Janet 
Wurmb  DG 
Social Chairman  Sue Hartman 
! AEPhi Projects Chairman  Marlene 
DeMarco  KAT Greek Sing Chairman  Lynne 
Jenkins  Chi. O
Alpha Tau Omega wishes to an
nounces the election of officers 
for' the Fall, semester of 1964. 
"Worthy Master  Jim Lawler 
Worthy Chaplin  Lou Stevens 
Worthy Keeper of the Exchequer 
Jim Newell 
Worthy Keeper of the Annals  
Bill Koeppel Worthy Scribe  Robert McIn
toshWorthy Usher  Woody Witlatch 
Worthy Sentinel  Randy French 
Rush Chairman  Scott McCor
mickHouse Manager  Paul Magnusen
Sigma Kappa and Theta Xi took 
part in a national Help Day on 
Saturday, April 18. This marked 
the start of an effort by all Theta 
Xi Chapters for a yearly Help 
Day. Cleaning, repairing, and 
generally improving the appear
ance of the Dixmont Hospital 
was this year's project, -The hos
pital officials were quite pleased 
with the result of the Help Day. 
The SKs and TXs hope to make 
this an annual project.
Ben Goldman, Executive Secre
tary of Tau Delta Phi National 
was guest of Psi Chapter on the 
weekend of April 18. He began
3 Big Names 
At Sat. Dance
CTRAMP\o 683-6S92o68
liliiiii pmgTMN&eii
his stay by delivering a dinner 
talk to the members and joining 
in the evenings affair. Following 
a complete tour of Pittsburgh, 
he was taken out to diner on Sun
day before his departure.
Six pledges from Hunter Col
lege (Tau Nu Chapter) in New 
York also spent that weekend at 
our house and generously con
tributed their time to turn the 
soil, seed, and water our front 
lawn. Good guys those Tau Nu 
pledges!
Jim Levy and Karl Schneider 
are working diligently in their 
lead parts in S n S. Jim is re
ceiving some backstage encour
agement from his pinmate, Caro
lyn Ornstein, who is on the con
struction crew.
Jon Borofsky, senior sculpture 
major, has been accepted to Yale 
and shall continue his studies 
there next -fall. Jon aiso won a 
scholarship to Fontainebleau in 
France where he will study sculp
ture this summer.
Dave Miller, senior architect, 
will do graduate work at Harvard this September.
Two other seniors will return 
to Carnegie Tech next fall: Marty 
Skowron will be working as a 
graduate Electrical Eftgineer, and 
Phil .Cohen, having received an 
assistantship in the graduate Math 
Department,, will .be teaching and studying.
Psi Chapter of Tau Delta Phi 
takes pleasure in announcing the 
election of officers for the spring - 
fall term:
Consul: Richard Elkman; Vice 
Consul: Tod Johnson; Scribe: John 
Lieberman; Questor: Steve Weiss; 
House Manager: Don Berkowitz; 
Pledgemaster: Ron Werrin;
Steward: Steve Weinreich; Rush: 
Jim Levy; Alumni Scribe: Gerry 
Slavin; Social: Steve Sadacca;
Student Congree Rep.: Darryl
Dobin; I. M. Manager: Steve Albert; Alternate C.F. P. Rep.: 
Marion Bauman.
Delta Sigma Chapter of Sigma 
Nu is proud to announce its new 
officers for'. 1964-1965: Comman
der, Tom Glassberg; Lieutenant 
Commander, Frank Brady; Pledge 
Marshall, Sherman Scott; Trea
surer, Tom Clements; House.Man
ager, Richard Damberg; Steward, 
Mike Alen; Recorder, Ed Cheely; 
Reporter-Historian, Bruce Mc
Donald; Sentinel, Bob Horvath; 
C.F.P. Representative, Dick Eck
hardt and Stiident Congress Rep
resentative, Bob Blasier.
Delta Delta Delta announces 
that applications are available for 
a Tri-Delta scholarship which is 
awarded annually. Any woman 
student at Tech is eligible to ap
ply. The scholarship is worth 
about $200.
Applications for the scholarship 
can be obtained in the Dean of 
Womens office. All who are inter
ested are urged to apply. Please
Classified Ads
at The Peter Hughes Scnool of Music. Cell: 731-1844.
July and August. Call 441-5819.
For sale  Renault 4CV I960. $275. Must sacrifice immediately to finance trip to Europe 441-6590 evenings.
For rent  Stud: plcteJy furnished. Suitabl' Carnegie Tech sludei
apartment, c ble for 1 o: Call MU. 1-4:
DANCE
For Young Adults Every
THURS. and SUN.
at THE
GROVE
(Linden Grove)
? * ?
Best in Recorded Music
LIBRARY RD. - RT. 88
CASTLE SHANNON
rnnon Streetcar . . . Webers Dances Since 1909
CRAFT AVE. THEATER 
OPENS SATURDAY, APRIL 25th 
William Shakespeares
Sitttrlftif Ntgiji
Sun.-Tues.-Wed. 7:30 
Seats $1.50
Thurs.-Sat. 8:30 
Saturday $2.00
THEATER UPSTAIRS 
HELEN WAYNE RAUH
B> NUNC rH M TNE
CtMET M Ht HHJNSt MB 
trAnMittfif
Scats 51.50 . Sat f2.M
HAMLET ST. THEATER
Bert Carr in
"NAUGHTY NIFTIES"
Old style burlycoo erupts 
joyously at The Playhouse 
Monahan, Press 
"Grand entertainment
Fanning, Post-Gazetie
Ail Seats $2.00
return applications to the Deans 
Office byMay 4, 1964. For fur
ther information, contact Barbara 
Spine, 331-4541.
Delta Tau Delta has announced 
the election of its officers for 
1964-65. The new officers are: 
president, Ronald J. Konnick; vice 
president, Christopher H. Knapp; 
treasurer, Robert K. Boeckman, 
Jr.; corresponding secretary, Fred-, 
erick M. Pond; and recording sec
retary, Darryl R. Degelman.
Beta Theta Pi has announced 
the election of its officers for
1964-65. The new officers are:?.' 
president, William H. Austin, 
Jr.; vice  president, Stephen I), 
Kornblatt; comtroller, Jack c. 
Hershey; house manager, David 
B. Francis; and social chairman, 
Ronald A. Savukas.
VOTE FOR
UMOC
Between Classes or at Study Break ...
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE 
...and ...
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
JOBS ABROAD
STUDENTS and TEACHERS
Largest NEW directory. Lists hundreds of permanent 
career opportunities in Europe, South America,. Africa 
and the Pacific, for MALE or FEMALE. Totals 50 coun
tries. Gives specific addresses and names prospective 
U.S. employers with foreign subsidiaries. Exceptionally 
high pay, free travel, etc. In addition, enclosed vital 
guide and procedures necessary to foreign employment. 
Satisfaction guaranteed. Send two dollars to Jobs 
Abroad Directory  P. O. Box 13593  Phoenix, Ari
zona.
Studies piling up?
Pause. Have a Coke. 
Coca-Cola with a lively lift 
3nd never too sweet, refreshes best.
things gObetter,i
Coke
kittled under Che lulhorily of Tha Coca-Cola Company by:
/

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 29  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Faee *
To Distribute 
Graduate Kits
Graduation kits containing im
portant information about grad
uation, tickets (in case of rain), 
and calendars of events must be 
picked up by candidates during 
the following hours:
Tuesday, May 5, 9:00 a.m. to 
4:00 p.m. .
Wednesday, May 6, 9:00 a.m. 
to 4:00 p.m.
Thursday, May 7, 9:00 a.m. 
to 4:00 p.m.
Friday, May 8, 9:00 a.m. to 
4:00 p.m.
The distribution point will be 
in Administration Hall, near the 
admissions office.
Evening students, contact Mr. 
McKelway on or after May 4.
Commencement announcements 
nd invitations can be purchased 
at the bookstore.
Student Congress 
To Elect Chairman
(continued from page 1) 
answer questions from the floor.
Ail old and new members of 
Congress are eligible to vote. 
Members who were reelected last 
week or whose terms did not ex
pire last week will have two 
voles.
Also at this meeting, Mr. 
SUalhmeyer, vice president of 
financial affairs for Carnegie 
xecn, will discuss the financial 
position of the school with em
phasis on the new tuition raise.
The entire student body is inviled to attend this meeting to 
question Mr. Strathmeyer on fi
nances and to question Joe Sandulli and Ben Porter on their 
platforms.
The following is an alphabeti
cal list of the new members of 
Congress: Mike Allen, C. Abronowitz. Betsy Bealke, Richard 
jHostJeman, Robert Buchanan, 
William Burdette, Marvin Cadwell. Sam Cupps, Eric Erenrich, 
Ailene Frank, Willis Gelbart, J. 
Golub, Ellen Hamil, Lorna Hershb e r g e r, Richard Hochhauser, 
Martha Hodgson, Nanci Kaelin, 
Jeff Kalin, Stephen Kessler, Tim 
MacMillan, Dan Marsel, Steve 
Palko, Mike Pollock, Ed Schtiler, 
Charles Siegel, Dave Specht, 
Carol Teaman, Frank Vigliotte, 
Phil Vormelker. John C. Ward.
Graduates Receive NSF Grants 
Totalling More Than $12000
Five more graduate students have received National 
Science Foundation Co-operative Fellowships for next-year.
They are: William G. Fleck, a second year graduate 
student in civil engineering; John O. Jenkins, a second year 
graduate student in physics; Charles A. Raquet, a second 
year graduate student in physics;
Alan W. Tamarelli, a first year
graduate student in chemical en
gineering, and Alan L. Thurman, 
a first year graduate student in 
mechanical engineering.
National Science Foundation 
Cooperative Graduate Fellowships 
are awarded on the basis of 
ability to citizens of the United 
States who have demonstrated 
ability and special aptitude for 
advanced training in the sciences. 
The award provides for a basic 
twelve-month stipend of $2400.
FURNITURE
to 40% off
9x12 RUGS
CAR NE CGI
Chase's
5432 Walnut St.Next to Shadyside Post Office 
621-1025 
Open 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
WLLY'fS
Campus-Favored 
MEN 
HUSHPUPPIES 
LOAFERS WELLINGTON BOOTS FLORSHEIM
WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERSFLATSDRESS SHOES
U. S. KEDS
3012 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
Midway, 4 Preps, 
Buggies, Fun Galore!
Iffljen the g.irfs g.o j?or9
B
Only $598 - so, get several pairs!
FARA.M MANUFACTURING C0. INC. L PASO, TEXAS

---------------------------------------------------

rage 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 29, 1964
Editorial
An Unwanted Change
The following article, reprinted from 
the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette of several weeks 
ago, has caused a strong reaction in this 
section of Allegheny County and elsewhere. 
In response to Mrs. Madeline Murrays pro
posal to have the words under God re
moved from the Pledge of Allegiance, a pet
ition campaign has been formed (indepen
dent of the Tech campus), addressed to 
Senators Clark and Scott, to try and stop 
the movement. Mrs. Murray, as readers will 
note when they read the following reprint, 
is the originator of the suit which had pray
ers removed from public schools.
For those students who do feel that re
ligion is a necessary or a desirable part of 
our heritage and government, petition 
blanks are being circulated around the 
campus. They will be presented through 
most campus organizations and posted in the 
mens dorms, Morewood, and Skibo as well. 
A student may sign as many times as he 
likes under the names of different organiza
tions.
The students here who have sponsored 
the petition drive do not have a particular
ly religious bias, but feel that religion is a 
strong and integral part of . American heri
tage, and, as such, to remove it from all 
public use, would be to weaken the gov
ernment rather than to render it more de
sirable.
(reprint follows)
Protest Made in Baltimore
REMOVAL OF WORD GOD IN FLAG 
PLEDGE ASKED 
BALTIMORE, April 6 (AP)  Mrs. Madelyn Murray, whose suit resulted in outlaw
ing prayers in the nations public schools, 
has called for elimination of the words 
"under God from the Pledge of Allegiance.
We will proceed with whatsoever legal 
action is necessary to stop the practice. she 
stated.
Mrs. Murray wrote to the Baltimore 
board of education demanding that the re
ference to God be deleted from the pledge 
to th flag by pupils. A board spokesman said 
today the question will be on the agenda 
to a regular meeting Thursday.
Mrs. Murray has two sons in Baltimore 
schools, one a high school ^senior and the 
other in fourth grade. She said she wants
Readers Write
them to participate in the pledge, but not 
with the reference to God.
Called Offensive
We find this to be offensive to our in
dividual liberties and to our freedom of con
science, since we are atheists, Mrs. Murray 
wrote.
I do not care to have my children ex
cused from the allegiance, since the alleg
iance itself is unconstitutionel.
An excuse from Baltimore public 
schools opening services is a signal for abu
sive treatment by fellow students, teachers, 
administration, and neighborhood persons. 
We will not accede to this again..
Mrs. Murray first withdrew her older son 
from school in 1960 in protest to opening 
religious exercises. She then had him ex
cused in conformity with an opinion by 
the states attorney general, but still filed 
suit.
Words Added in 1954
The Supreme Court held last year that 
school officials could not conduct prayers-or 
Bible readings.
The words under God under attack by 
Mrs. Murray were added to the flag pledge 
in 1954.
The pledge was first suggested in 1892 
and is part of the federal public laws.
It goes in full: I pledge allegiance to 
the flag of the United States of America and 
to the republic for which it stands, one na
tion under God, indivisible, with liberty and 
justice for all.
Dr. Robert Kofahl, a vice president of 
the American Council of Churches of Chris
tian Churches of California, in speaking of 
the use of the Bible and prayers in public 
schools, said today, At stake is not simply 
the question of reading the Bible in schools. 
It is whether the United States may con
tinue officially to give honor and respect to 
God.
Those who have succeeded in casting 
the Bible out of school have vowed they 
will not stop until they have God out of 
the Peldeg of Allegiance, chaplains out of 
the armed forces, prayer out of Congress, 
Bibles out of the courts, and the last verse 
out of the Star Spangled Banner.
Susan Brownlee 
Lynn Pasternak
Students Condemn Noise, Riots
Students Protest 
Library Invasion
Editor, The Tartan:
Twice in the past several 
weeks, the quiet study condi
tions in the Hunt Library have 
been disrupted by groups either 
touring the building or using the 
Multipurpose Room in the base 
ment. If these disturbances had 
been caused by grade school or 
high school children who do not
understand the need for quiet in 
a college library, the noise 
would have been excusable. 
This, however, was not the case. 
The first of these groups was 
the Carnegie Alumnae who 
toured the Botanical Library on 
Saturday, April 4. The GSIA 
convention used the Multipur* 
pose Room Saturday, April 25th. 
Both these groups of professional 
men and women  all of them 
college graduates, and many 
graduates of Carnegie Tech  
created disturbances both when
they entered and left the library. 
They seem to have forgotten that 
the library is primarily for the 
use of the students, and is here 
to provide a place to study in 
pleasant, quiet surroundings. 
Only secondarily is it a social 
hall.
We trust that the present un
dergraduates will remember the 
importance of silence in the li
brary when they return someday -as alumni.
Vicki Adler 66 
Jane Keeler 66
'CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY
Editor in-Chief.........................................Miron Slraf
Executive Editor ..................................Nancy Cameron
Managing Editor ..........................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager............... .............Michael McCoy
News Editor .................   .......... Dale Chodorow
Assistant News Editor ................................Alma Hock
Features Editor......................................Martha Hodgson
Sports Editor ..................................Scott McCormick
Layout Editor ..........................................Drew Lippay
Copy Editor ..............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ...........................Eric FeldmannSecretary Editor ..........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .................................Tom Johnsoix
Annual Subscription Rat $2.50 Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Inc.Offices: Skibo, Room 50, fcorbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9079. Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
^periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Library To Hold 
Book Exchange
The Welfare Committee of the 
General Faculty, with the co
operation of Professor Fagerhaugh 
and the library staff, has an
nounced the seventh annua] Faculty Book Exchange.
The plans and schedule are as follows:
On Monday, Tuesday, and Wed
nesday, May 11, 12, and 13, fac
ulty members are requested to de
posit in the Processing Depart
ment, near the Administrative 
Offices of the Hunt Library, books 
which are no longer useful to them.
On Thursday and Friday, May 
14 and 15, General Faculty mem
bers are invited to visit the Pro
cessing Department in the Hunt 
Library to select books from 
those accumulated earlier in the week.
On Monday, May 18 and Tues
day, May 19, students and other 
Carnegie Tech personnel will be 
permitted to take any remaining 
books.
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
A Look At Gambling
Several reasons have been given why gambling should 
be outlawed. Chief among these are: 1) Gambling is im
moral; therefore the individual should be protected from 
himself. Or 2) gambling corrupts the individual which 
causes his dependents hardship; society must prevent this 
harm. These assertions will not be examined.
First it will be shown that the second argument is 
closely related to, and depends upon, the first. Nearly 
every action man takes affects the lives of other persons. 
Should society then regulate every action of every man? 
In this case man would serve society; but the rationale for 
the existence of a society is that it furthers mans ends. 
Then how should society decide which actions of indivi
duals should be punished? Courts decide whether an act 
should be punished by looking at the intent of the person 
who has done it. If a similar rule were applied to gambling, 
and it seems reasonable that it should unless gambling is 
intrinsicly immoral, it is clear that it should be legalized 
since the object of gambling is to better ones position  
which would help dependents.
The question thus becomes one of whether any gov
ernment should forbid gambling because it is immoral if, 
in fact, it is immoral. Government, as we know it, makes 
decisions in accord with the majoritys wishes (of course, 
this is not strictly true). Should any majority (or minority) 
make decisions which restrict any one individuals freedom 
to act because the act is immoral? If this can be done, it 
implicitly assumes that some moral judgments can be 
shown to be better than others, and that these moral 
judgments are usually those of a majority.
However, even if all these conditions are met, it is dif
ficult to see why majority rule should extend to the point 
where a person who holds contrary views can not live as 
he pleases without bothering anyone. Is government an 
organization of men such that a majority can subjugate dis
senters? Should it be? Have majorities usually been right 
in the past? Or is it better to severely limit the powers and 
jurisdiction of governments?
Values are, or seem to be, such subjective private qual
ities that there is no reason to think that any majoritys 
opinion is better than an individuals. In making value 
judgments the only advantage numbers have is that a 
group has more power to promulgate and enforce its values 
than an individual has. But to say that the groups decision 
is better is to say that its members are better than dis
senters; otherwise there is no basis (no evidence) for the 
assertion that a value judgment should be universally 
binding except that it pleases those with power. This is 
obviously tyranny; its merits have often been discussed. 
The other alternative implies that men are not created 
equal, and that the best men re those with power. A 
democratic government must deny the above statement or 
the rationale for such a for mof organization is lost. Re
gardless of the form of government, the second part of the 
statement remains to be seen.
The above line of argument leaves outs for those 
who wish to impose moral standards; but to do so some 
of the most cherished and forcefully defended values in 
our society must be denied. It is not thought that moralists 
realize the consequences of their position.
This Week in Pittsburgh
MUSIC
Carnegie Concert Series: April 29, 8:30, Carnegie Lecture 
Hall, Chamber Music of Mozart, Webern, Brahms, 
Berg.
A New Beat in Old Vienna, April 30, 8:15, YM&WHA, 
Barbara Orwid
Pittsburgh Madrigal Singers, May 3, 8:30, Wherrett 
Room, Music from Shakespeares Time
LECTURES
Alfred Adler, April 2S, 8:15, Dr. Richard L. Rubienstein, Schools of Psychoanalytic Thought Series.
EXHIBITS
Shakespeare Folios, April 23-May 8, Rare Book Room, 
Hunt Library.
Jane Haskell, One Man Show, April 26-May 4, Carnegie 
Institute
Graduate Students work, April 27-May 15, Hewlett Gallery.
Graphic Design and Calligraphy of Howard Glasser, 
through May 8, 8:30-5:00 Mon.-Sat. Porter Garnett Gallery.
MOVIES
The Letter that was Never Sent, May 3, 815 Morris 
Kaufmann Auditorium, YM & WHA.

---------------------------------------------------

Midway Booths Judging 
To Open 1964 Carnival
(continued from page i) supply the music from 9:00 until 
10:30, when comedian Tony Gar
land will appear. At about 11:00 
the Modern Flamigos will take 
over the place, and really make it 
swing. Awards and other trophies 
will be presented at midnight by 
the Queen and Blaine Oliver, the 
Chairman of the Carnival.
Wednesday, April.Z9  CARNEGIE TARTAN ~ Pace 5
many students and their date who 
enjoying the Weekend. Tickfor one couple for both Friday 
and Saturday nights cost $5.50 
and are being sold all over cam
pus. You can find them on the Cut 
between 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m 
in the fraternities, and with the 
E dorm counselors in the mens dor| mitories.
: Starting tomorrow a limited 
j number of single tickets for The 
Preps performance will be 
placed on sale. The price is $2.50, 
land this admits one person to the 
I Friday night show. If you dont 
I have a date and want to go to the
\ concert, this is your chance. Take 
advantage of it.
\ Saturday afternoon plank joustling will be buried behind Moref wood Gardens in the same hole as 
siSsi year. Frenchy Langlois is the 
| thief digger for this event.
\ The Midway, organized by Rich 
] Elkman. will open at 4:30 p.m. on 
\ Thursday, wiien the first judging 
' of booths will take place. Final 
I judging willbe at 9:00. At midk night the Midway closes. On Fri| day and Saturday it will open at 
'i noon, closing at midnight on Fri
day and at 9:00 p.m. on Saturday.
\ ttiis is the best Midway ever, so 
: be sure to see it, ferris wheel and 
iall.
\ The dance will be held on the 
; Skibo patios (weather permitting), 
j in the Ballroom, and in the Lobby.
; This, we hope, will alleviate some 
\ cf the crowding of past dances.
3 The Tommy Payne Orchestra will
After this the evening will end 
with various small parties in th 
fraternities and dormitories, cul
minating with the 3:00 a.m. Morewood curfew. On Sunday after
noon those who are awake can 
visit the Open House in womens 
dorms from 2:00 to 5:00 p.m. 
Otherwise, you can just recuper
ate for Monday mornings classes.
Carnegie Technical Presents 
Carnegies Grand Prix Feature
Music Faculty 
To Give Recital
Faculty members of the prep
aratory division, department of 
music of Carnegie Tech will pre
sent a recital on Sunday, May 3, 
at 3:00 p.m. in Exhibition Hall, 
in the College of Fine Arts.
Given annually by the. faculty 
honor of the students, par
ents, and friends of the prepara
tory division in music, the recital 
will include works by Bach, Berg, 
Brahms, Clementi, and Mozart. 
Appearing on the program will 
beBertha Epshstein. Thomas Da
vis, Annabelle Joseph, Louis Paul, 
Eugent Phillips, Natalie Phillips, 
Franciscus van Mastrigt, and 
Ralph Zitterbart. The recital is 
free and open to the public.
Will you be one of the many 
interested by-standers at this 
years Spring Carnival Buggy 
Race contests? If so, chances are 
that youve heard something of 
the months of preparation that 
buggy teams undergo in prepara
tion for the event. But you prob
ably dont know about all the 
principles, problems, and hours of 
practice that precede the contest and are finally climaxed in the 
race itself. The Carnegie Techni
cal presents these aspects in a 
pictorial and editorial feature in 
its April issue, now on campus.
This staff-written article, Car
negies Grand Prix, traces the 
history of the tradition at Tech. 
It plots the actual course that the 
buggies will follow and points out 
the problems that both drivers 
and pushers encounter.
The work cut out for the de
signers receives coverage also as 
their jobs are explained; and a 
mathematical problem shows the 
theoretical problems that they 
must consider in their efforts to 
construct the fastest buggy pos
sible.
The magazine also offers an an
alytical article on Slang. Nancy 
Harvey, a junior English major, 
presents a study of the origins 
and changes in American expres
sions that appear in every-day 
conversation. Frank Vigliotti, a 
freshman painting and design ma
jor, illustrated the article.
The three articles that won the 
Technical's high school award are 
also presented. Annually, the 
magazines conducts a contest in 
many top high schools across the eastern part of the United States 
encourage students to write 
clear and analytical papers. ParOne phase in the course of a Tech buggy.
tial scholarships or cash prizes 
are awarded to the winners.
This years best paper was writ
ten by Jeffrey Liebman of Evans
ton, Illinois. He discusses Kafka 
and Salinger, and his article is 
illustrated by Stanley Rosenthal, 
awards provide for a basic twelve
Second prize went to S.andra 
Stinnette, a student from Miami,
Florida. Her paper is a study en
titled Tides/' Third prize was 
awarded to Russell Bjonk of 
Culver Military Academy for bis 
article Is Space Curved?
An editorial, Technical Mu^ 
ings, and the math puzzles round 
out th final issue of the Tech
nical for this school year.
Attention SENIOR and GRADUATE MEN Students
Who Need Some FINANCIAL HELP in Order to Complete Their 
Education This Tear and Will Then Commence Work. 
Apply to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION. INC.A non-profit Education! Fdn, #10 ENOICOTT BLDG., 8T. PAUL 1, MINN.
UNDERGRADS, CLIP AND SAVE
On May 6th, Thomas Whitney Rodd, an 18-year-old 
religious pacifist from Pittsburgh, will be brought to trial 
for refusing to register for the draft. Mr. Rodds convictions 
have compelled him to make this witness, and he has pre
pared the following brief explanation of his grounds for 
dissent.
My name is Thomas Rodd. I live in the Squirell Hill 
section of Pittsburgh, and am a graduate of Taylor Allderdice High School, I will soon be a prisoner in a Federal 
Penetentiary.
My Crime
My crime is simple, yet rare in these United States. I 
am one of a tiny minority of young Americans who refuse 
to register for the draft I am a pacifist  one who re
nounces the use of violence. My conduct is decided by a 
higher law than the draft law  the law of God and my 
conscience.
Whats Wrong With The Draft?
Some have said that the draft is militarily useless, obso
lete in a nuclear age. Others point to how it uproots young 
men from their jobs and home life and forces them to labor 
for low pay. Doubtless these are valid objections; but there 
is one-argument that makes them petty in comparison. 
Soldiers Kill People
The draft serves to fill the ranks of the United States 
Army. And the members of the United States Army occupy 
their time training to efficiently, ruthlessly kill other human 
beings. As a pacifist I cannot take part in such training. 
Both religion and common sense show me that war is folly, 
and that iovlence solves nothing, only breeding more 
violence.
Why Not Become A Conscientious Objector?
The Federal Government has made some provision for 
those who cannot conscientiously learn to kill. They are 
classified as conscientious objectors, and serve two years in 
various types of constructive civilian work. Many young 
pacifists take this option. .But I cannot. I cannot say, Let me out, dont train me 
to kill, but take all other young men." No, I must say, Take 
no one at all; instead, end the draft altogether. If I register 
for the draft, I am giving the government the right to de
termine whether I should learn to kill or not/ But it has 
no such right. _  ____REGISTERING FOR THE DRAFT AND APPLYING 
TO BE A CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR IS LIKE APPLY
ING FOR A PERMIT NOT TO MURDER. NO ONE 
SHOULD NEED A PERMIT TO LOVE. LOVE SHOULD 
BE THE RULE, NOT THE EXCEPTION.
What I Do Believe
I do believe that a foreign policy based on fellowship 
and understanding can win the cold war. I support uni
lateral disarmament. I would scrap our weapons and 
channel our enormous defense budget into creative organi
zations for international development, like a World Peace 
Corps.
I believe in nonviolence. I believe that men have the 
courage to resist any dictator simply by refusing to co
operate with him. I believe that it is far better to turn 
the other cheek, to accept suffering willingly, than to harm 
others. In this willingness to suffer I see the greatest power 
in the world . . . love............
I have been jailed and tortured, working for racial 
equality in the American South. I am ready to die for my 
beliefs, though not to kill for them. My allegiance is not to 
any state or nation, but to Truth and Love. As Thomas 
Paine puts it, The world is my country, all men my 
brothers, to do good my religion."
So I will not register for the draft.- Nor will I hide my 
crime. Evil laws must be broken, but they must be broken openly.
On March 26, 1964, six days after my eighteenth birth
day, at 10:00 a.m., I presented myself at the offices of the 
Federal Attorney in Downtown Pittsburgh. I requested arrest.
 For this act, I could be sentenced to five years in a 
Federal Prison. Yet I am lucky. For while I have the 
privilege to stand up for my beliefs, there are thousands 
of young men who each day unwillingly learn more and - 
more of the art of murder. They are the ones who need our help.
You doubtless have read of what I am doing in the 
newspapers and have heard about it on television and radio. 
Read and listen carefully. Then, when I am jailed, it will 
be your turn to speak up in your own way and demand that 
we end the draft.
We may agree or disagree with Mr. Rodd, but we ap
plaud the courage and conviction displayed in his willing
ness to volunteer himself for imprisonment rather than to 
obey a draft law which he considers immoral and corrupting.
Tom Rodd is willing to make this sacrifice in order to 
raise important questions. We owe it to Tom Rodd to 
examine his position and to give it our most thoughtful consideration.
Petition Signatories
Eugene R. August 
I. H. Bartlett 
Leonard Bushkoff 
Phil. B. Catelinet 
James R. Curran 
Roy W. Curry 
S. de Benedetti 
Martin Engel 
Edwin Fenton
David N. Gidman 
Donald M. Goodfellow 
Benjamin H. Griffith 
Roland J. Leich 
Bernard K. Markwell 
Richard McCarthy 
Robert M. Morgan 
Michael B. Nicholson 
Jack Patterson
Charlea A. H. Pearson 
Ludwig F. Schaefer 
Stanley A. Sussman 
Carl Willers 
Lincoln Wolfenstein 
Fred Villinger 
Arthur P. Ziegler Jr. 
Ralph F. Zitterbart

---------------------------------------------------

Pase t  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. April 29, 1961
City Occupation Tax
Leaves 14c Paycheck
James Newell, a sophomore from Kenmore, New York, 
refereed twelve intramural basketball games at Carnegie 
Tech and received a net wage of 14c.
How did it happen? Listen to this.
Newell's gross wage for the series came to $12.00, or 
$1.00 per game. After a federal* 
withholding tax of $1.68 and a I vf r (co
school wage -tax of 18c, he hadlf|Ujfl[ f jIJlYflY'Y
$10.14. I J
Then the municipality of Pitts
burgh decided to put its two 
cents into the tax rake-off game, 
hitting Mr. Newell with what theyj To commemorate the birthday 
call an occupation tax. Its as-of William Shakespeare, the Hunt 
sessment came to $10.00. \ Library has opened a display of
If youre still with us, $10.141 w  ^ s by the famous English
less $10.00 leaves 14c and a grim Playwright.Having begun during the week 
of Shakespeares birthday (April 
21), the display specifically fpa! Holds Display
xpression of disapproval by the 
unlucky recipient.
Newells disdain for the citys 
occupation tax isnt an isolated case, however.
An Oakland woman who had 
worked in a department store 
downtown received. $4.00 for two 
days work.
A college student who worked 
for two days during his spring 
vacation received a wage compar
able to 56c per day.
From all parts of the city, com
plaints have been showered upon 
City Treasurer David A. Smith 
and City Solicitor David W. Craig. 
But according to them, they are 
still searching for legal loopholes 
by which people can avoid the 
foolish Pittsburgh occupation tax.
Until then, those who labor 
under the laws of Pittsburgh must 
learn to accept the grin of the 
barrator.
EGG TOSS 
E&S LMM
tures original Shakespearian cos
tumes, pages from original Shake
spearian volumes, and rare books 
on the author and his plays.
Most of the display is on loan 
from families in thePittsburgh 
area, but some are from the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh and Duquesne University.
The Hare Book Room of the 
Hunt Library on the fourth floor, 
where the exhibit is being held, 
must be maintained at a 50% 
humidity and a seventy degree 
temperature level. For that rea
son, visitors will be admitted only 
by Security Police who have pass 
keys.
Also included in the display, 
besides Shakespearian costumes, 
are photographs of the Shake
spearian plays given by the Car
negie Tech Department of Drama. 
Along with these are exhibited the 
production books from these plays 
explaining in full the technical 
background to each of them.
Continuing through May 8, the 
display is free and open to the , public.
New Trustees 
Announced 
By Bovard
Morris Nielsen, president of the 
Babcock-Wilsox Company and a 
special term trustee at Carnegie 
Tech, has been elected a life 
trustee, it was announced by Mr. 
James M. Bovard, chairman of 
the board. The election was held 
at the annual meeting of the Car
negie Tech board.
Newly elected as special term 
trustees are Mr. Aiken W. Fisher, 
director and president of Fisher 
Scientific Company, and Mr. Phil
ip A. Fleger, director, chairman 
of the board and president of 
the Duquesne Light Company.
The two life trustees who 
gained emeritus status are Park 
H. Martin, formerly Secretary of 
{hways, Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania and Arthur E.
an, formerly Chairman of the 
Board, Farmer's Deposit National 
Bank of Pittsburgh.
John C. Yirden, Chairman of 
the Board and President, Eaton 
Manufacturing Company, whose 
special term as a trustee expired 
this year, was re-elected until 
1966. Also re-elected are two 
alumni trustees, Alfred S. An
drews of Andrews, Bartlett and 
Associates, Inc., and Logan T. 
Johnston, President, Armco Steel Corp.
r. Max W. Lightner, newly 
elected president of the Carnegie 
Tech alumni federation, was elect
ed to a one-year membership on 
the board. Mr. Lightner is vicepresident for applied research at 
United States Steel Corporation.
There's a time and place for everything
Right now Shakespeare has you engrossed. But 
when youve finished Romeo and Juliet, take a telephone break1* and call home. Your parents 
would love to hear from you It means so much 
costs so little.
Greek System Represented 
At New York Worlds Fair
(continued from page 1) 
ings and benefits of the free en
terprise system of the Americas 
and other parts of the Western 
world. In keeping with the gen
eral theme of the mamoth pa
vilion, the national fraternity and 
sorority exhibit will be entitled: 
Young Partners in Fee Enterprise.
In order to accommodate the 
thousands of visitors from all 
over the world who will attend 
the fair and see the exhibit, spe
cial guides will be on duty to 
help explain the various features 
of the display and distribute lit
erature containing basic informa
tion about the fraternity and so
rority systems. The guides will 
be drawn principally from the 
ranks of the field secretaries and 
representatives of member organ
izations of the two sponsoring con
ferences.
The displays in the exhibit will, 
include realistic portrayals of how 
fraternities and sororities. develop 
campus loyalty, provide valuable 
citizenship training, encour
age scholarship, promote high 
standards of conduct, teach busi
ness management, and inculcate 
the best traditions of citizenship 
in everyday living.
Many little-known but signifi
cant facts about the fraternity 
and sorority system will be high
lighted in the exhibit for public 
edification. Examples of these are 
such statements that more than 
75% of all funds contributed by 
individuals to institutions of high
er learning are given by fraternity 
men and sorority women, and the 
fact that over 70% of fraternity 
and sorority members complete 
their college courses as compare ^ 
with only 50% of non-fraternity students.
The exhibit will have a limit
ed run during the period from 
July 19 to August 9 since the space 
is being donated by the Ameri
can Economic Foundation on a 
rotating basis with other partici
pants.
Sponsors of the exhibit hope 
that not only will the principles 
and traditions of the fraternit*: 
and sorority systems be reaffirmed 
for undergraduate and alumni 
members alike who visit the fair 
but, more importantly, become 
better understood by the general 
public and the young people who 
will become students at colleges 
and universities in the fulive 
years.
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. SUPPLIES RADIOS HIGH FIDELITY TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.J
INSTANT
SILENCE
Study Anytime 
Anywhere
Sound attenuators as 
utilized by military 
and commercial jet air
craft ground crew per
sonnel are the perfect 
solution. For information 
write:
Acadcmic Aids 
P. O. Box 96 
Berkeley 1, Calif.
.armoniouA
T en tlerhj 
M.
M n trin Ica (fij
S ati^ing ....
T /  a m ci l i ca lif
S icentiou ....
3t/
THISTLE 1984!
Jock and JillCue and Cushion
Broadview Blvd.Natrona Heights (next to Eat N Park) 
SETUOFEHLY 5437 Walnut St.Shadyside (across from Fox's)
4851 McKnight Rd.Pgh. 37 (next to McDonald's)
half 
after 
hour at the regular 
price
We guarantee  Ladies taught by us play better than men 
with equal experience
LIVE IT UP  HAVE A BALL  PLAY POCKET BILLIARDS  ITS FUN FOR ALL
Where every night is ladies night

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April il  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Fite f
Track c.UP aFHL cus.. e..OLv 
aoFk-sELOlswYaUiH.Llsw -Utt
The Carnegie Tech track team 
regained their winning form, af
ter the close loss to Indiana, but 
soundly defeating Washington and 
Jefferson College 78-62, Saturday, 
April 17.- The win was impres*^ve since W&J took 9 first places 
to Techs 7, but managed to grab 
only 3 out of 15 second places 
This fine show of depth has re
newed hopes of going undefeated 
/or the remaining 8 meets,
Oi the individual periormances, 
none could match the triple by 
Lcgg of W&J as he won the 100 
y;nd dash, 120 yard high hurdle, 
and the 220 yard dash. As usual, 
Burkholder, Cairns, Macosko, and 
: ,,yeck continued to dominate the 
distance events giving up but 2 
out. of 9 possible places in the 3 
distance events.
Coach Ed Vamos expressed 
doubts at the start of the meet 
for he was faced with the loss 
of Lwo of his best field men 
John Borofsky with an injured 
back and Tim McMillan with 
pulled leg muscle. Because of this 
JHoach Vamos was. pleased to see 
,^rn all-out effort by the rest of 
his team to gain the victory. He 
also felt that the; fine perform
ances would not have been pos
sible without the strong student 
support from the stands.
Depth Overcomes Frostburgr 
Finishing with a sweep of the 
two mile and a win in the mjle 
relay, CITs track team nudged 
their point score to 72  four 
belter than visiting Frostburghs 
*8. The win last Wednesday in 
the Tech bowl, boosted Techs 
record to 3 and 1.
Led by their double winner, 
Hurvita, Frostburg jumped off to 
an early lead. With the fine show
ing of Harry Burkholder, winner 
of the mile and two mile, backed 
by Chris Macosko and Roger 
Cairns, Tech bounced back. But
4470 Outshoots 
SN In IM Rifle
The five-man rifle team of 
Alpha Tau Omega put on a fine, 
consistent exhibition of shooting to 
win the 1964 intramural rifle 
championship with a score of 601 
out of a possible 750. Paced by 
Joe Sheldrick, Rick Scalpello, and 
l^iho clutch shooting of Woody
 Whillatch, the ATOs beat second 
I pl.ice Sigma Nu by 7 points.
B Sheldrick turned in a 128, and
I -Scalpello a 125. Whillatch, a three 
yoar letterman who transferred 
Jiom Geneva, shot a 122 under 
ouite a bit of pressure when his 
leammates left him ten minutes 
to shoot his string of fifteen shots. 
Joe Hartman fired a 121 and Bill 
jVon Twistern a 105 to round out 
yn'Os scoring.
^ I-ad Dawson of Sigma Nu shot 
a 134 to' win individual honors 
in the match, but three of his 
teammates shot below 115 to give 
ATO the championship. Sigma Nu 
finished with a total of 504. Beta 
Thcta Pi was third with 586.
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos  in the Cityhyf3y hnaS
3725 Forbes St. 
681-6045
Nationally 
Advertised Pipes
by far the best performance of 
the day was turned in by amaz
ing AndyNiedra. Hitting h i s 
stride for the first time this year, 
Niedra captured first in the 440 
.and the 880 as. well as anchoring 
the winning mile relay in 51.7 
seconds. 
In the overall analysis, it was 
Techs, depth that pulled out the 
victory. In first places they were 
even 8 to 8. It was people like 
Werronen, Diskin, William, Thom
as, and Philips, who really gave 
the all-out effort that made the 
win possible. A fine crowd showed 
up to witness a very fine meet.
Tartans Crush Yllowjackets
Carnegie Tech invaded Waynesburg Saturday and literally swept 
the Yellowjackets off their track, 
102-37. The Tartan runners took 
14 of 16 first places.
Tony Williams lead the Tartan 
atack with first in the pole vault, 
high jump and the hop-step-andjump. Hank Werronen contributed 
15' more points with wins in the 
discuss and : 220 yard dash and 
a second after teammate DeFeo 
in the 100.
 The distanc workhorses, Harry 
Burkholder, Rober Cairns-, Chris 
Gordon, Kern Phillips, Andy Nie
dra, and Jerry Peck, brought 
home 24 out of 27 points in the 
mile, two mile and half mile 
races.
Performances, especially in the 
running events, were understand
ably poor due to the sloppy con
dition of their fifth of a mile 
track.
Tuesday the team traveled to 
Allegheny for a triangular meet 
with Grove City and Allegheny. 
Over Spring Carnival track fans 
will have a chance to cheer for 
a victorious squad Saturday af
ternoon. Tech will meet Saint 
Francis at 2:00 in the bowl.
CIT vs. WJ 
Field Events
Ilop-Slep-Jnmp: 1) Smith (WJ); 2) Diskin (CIT); 3) Wollesen (WJ) 40-11
geras (CIT); 3) Kendmr (WJ) l8-ft.-
Broad Jump: 1) Diskin (CIT); 2)Smith (WJ); .H). Williams (CIT) 8V4-it>ches.Discus: i) Lucas (IVJ); *) Werronen (CIT); 3) Wolleueen (WJ) H0-ft.-4-in.
Track Events
Mile: I) Burkholder (CIT); 2) Macosko (CIT); 3) Cairns (CIT) 4:42.5440: 1) Niedra (CIT); 2) Rosenberg (WJ); a) Walker (WJ) 02.a100: I) Le (WJ); 2) Werronen(CIT); 3) Keeler (WJ) 10.7 120 HH 1) L egg (WJ); 2) Thomas (CIT); 3) Sharkey (CIT) 17.*880: 1) Ximmel (WJ); 2). Macosko (CIT); a) Peck (CIT) 2:04,2 220: 1) Leg* (WJ); 2) Werronen (CIT) 3) Defeo (OIT) 28.4330 IH: I) Thomas (CIT); 2) Smith (WJ); 3) Sharkey (CIT) 42.8 2 Mile: .1) Burkholder .(CIT): .2) Cairns (CIT); 3) Hardin; (WJ) 10:31.& Mile Bela? (WJ) (Kelley, Walker, Kimtnel, Rosenberg) 3:1*5.
CIT vs. FSC 
Field Events
Pble Vault: 1) Williams (CIT); Z) Sbirey (FSC); 3) Mink (CIT) ll-ft. 0-<*.- High Jump: 1) Boccoto (FSC); 2)Hahn (FSC); 3) Mamma, (FSC) 5-ft.-10-
Shot Put: 1) McRobie (FSC); 2) Hamilton (CIT); 3) Morgan (FSC) 41-ft.- 8*!i-in.' Jatelin: 4) Wood (FSC); 2) Kalogeras (CIT); 3) bong (CIT) lSb-ft.-4-in.Discos: 1) Werronen (CIT); 2) Scbeesaler (CIT); 3) Hahn (FSC) 130-(t.-5-in.Broad Jump: I) Diskin (CIT); 2)Kessler (FSC); 3) Hurrltz (FSC) 20-ft.8-Inches.Hop-Step-Jnmp: 1) Kessler (FSC); 2) Diskin (CIT); S) Bednarz (CIT) 37-ft.-9-incbes.
Track Events
Mile Run: 1) Burkholder (CIT); 2) Macosko (CIT); 3) Cairns (CIT) 4:41.7 440: 1) Niedra (VIT); 2) Wlsnom(FSC); 3) Collins (CIT) 52.100: 1) Nurvltz (FSC); 2) Droter(FSC); 3) Werronen (CIT) J0.S 120 HH: I) Mamma (FSC); 2) Robinson (FSC); 8) Shirey (FSC) 10.3 880: 1) Niedra (CIT); 2) Wisnom(FSC); 3) Mascoko (CIT) 2:03.7
330 IH: 1) Robinson (FSC); 2) Thomas (CIT); 3) Slider (FSC) 42.92 Mile: 1) Burkholder (CIT); 2)Cairms (CIT); S) Philips (CIT) 10:22.0 Mile Relay: 1) Collins, 2) Bednarz,3) Werronen, 4) Niedra 3:37.2
10*MSC0UNT
on your
dyr ,Sb3gfgM
and
0fyc S3gdyr
When you present your Tech I.D.
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 FORBES AVE.
OPEN DAILY FROM
8 A.M. to 8 P.M.
THE ALPS... made in Italy by FABIANO
Hwdwdt lmpr>ed Boob lor the Outdoor Mwi Mtd Woman..
STYLE #91
For Men or Won^n, Siena 
Brown .llolion Suede, soft 
and supple, will never 
crock or horden. For Rock 
Climbing or Hiking.Podded 
Tongue ond Quorler for 
extreme comfort ot th* 
ankle. Vibrom lug sole 
Mens N and I
C to 14. Lodies N and M 
5 to It. (Sizes 13 to 14 
$3.00 E,1ra). $23.95 plus
FABIANO SHOE CO.. INC.
DEPT. N. SOUTH STATION BOSTON 20, MASS.
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
HOT DOG SHOP
JUICIEST & MOST TEMPTING HOT DOGS IN TOWN
 MUSTARD
 RELISH ONION PICKLE
 MAYONNAISE
 SAUERKRAUT CHILE KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS
19-INCH SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS 
GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN 
SALAD & FRENCH FRIES 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORNS
(MINIMUM ORDER  $1.90)
621-7388682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c  PIZZA (per cut) 10c 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM OSDEtt  1.60)
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET 21-7388  82-8466
Pittsburghs Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832
lxciulve at ^obert
PRICES FROM $t2B TO $1600
18KT. White Gold Solitaire setting' high and pretty 
giving maximum brilliance and security. $450 F.T.I. 
Enlarged for detail.
REGISTERED JEWELER 
AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY
Charge Accounts and Defei'red Payments Invited
JOHN M.R0BKRIV S0\ (<*
WOOD ST. at FORBES AVE., DOWNTOWN
East Hills Shopping Center  731 Washington Bd., Mt Lebanon

---------------------------------------------------

"pge 8  CAItNEGIE TAHAN  Wednesday, April 8, 19*4
cEXc .UsHL 'FTOEsFELv 
0.ULEH g.UsL ,tEL.
Last week the IM softball 
schedule was again diluted with 
the coming of the rain. ATO con
tinued to top Braves League ac
tion with  16-4 win over the 
Commuters. ATO pitcher Hig7 
ganbotham helped his own cause 
with 4 hits while teammates 
French, Oliver, and Olsen each 
contributed 3 hits. The Commu
ters had gained a 6-3 win over 
KS in a previous game. Getting 
ready for this game with ATO 
this week, SAE handed KS a 17-2 
loss after getting by the Organ
ization in a previous game with 
a 13-12 score. SAE pitcher Harvey 
Gammon limited the usually highscoring KS to. six hits while reg
istering seven strike outs.
In limited Yankee League ac
tion. the BSR Mets defeated 
DTD 13-6. Bob Serabin led the 
Mets to their victory with three 
runs and a fine defensive game. 
In the only other league game, 
the Drrm-Trojans pounded the 
Civil-Hammers 24-6 on 28 hits.
DU was plagued by first-inning 
jitters as they dropped two games 
on the strength of their opposi
tions first-inning scoring. The 
Fink Beauties beat them 20-12 
with a 10-run tally in the first,
Hoopsters Top 
Average Factor
Mid-Year factors of the Varsity 
Basketball Team discredit any be
liefs that athletes must be unin
telligent. Factors ranged from 1.88 
to 3.37, with an* average factor of 
2.67. as compared to a factor of 
2.39 for the all-mens average. 
Seven of the 14 squad members 
had factors above the 2.75 aca
demic scholarship level. The 13- 
man Junior Varsity squad also 
had an impressive 2.45 average 
factor.
TYPING
FAST  EFFICIENT
 REASONABLE 
Term Papers  Theses  Dis
sertations  Punctuations  
Spelling  Grammar Correctd FC0 ENTERPRISES
Call 421-1456 
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
0,nnm 0p3yb
Men . . . when you want to 
express yourself , in a tangible 
way . . . why not get her a 
College Ring with either a 
simulated ruby or blue spirel 
stone at $8.00 ... or a Charm at $4.75 ...
We have those perennial fav
orites in good supply . . . 
Charms with C. I. T. Seal in 
Sterling Silver or Gold Filled 
. . . at $1.95.
A recent arrival that sure to 
please . . . Scotsman Charms 
in Sterling Silver or Gold Fil
led . . . at $1.49.
and TDP defeated them later by 
a score of 10-8, getting half their 
runs also in the first. Other Twin 
League play saw the Grad Eagles 
G pound their way to a 25-19 
win over the Fink Beauties.".
Giants League BTP defeated 
PKA. 6-3, with Olson going 3- 
for-3 for the winners. The Grad 
Eagles E won their contest 
with the Marauders by a 8-1 
margin. The Fink B forfeited 
their only game to the BSR 
Yankees.
In the' jag Mets League, the 
more serious-minded BTP picked 
up wins over ATO J and the 
Ideals. The SN jag team failed to 
show twice, and thus the Whales 
and SAE S each gained a win.
Golfers Drop 
Two Matches
During the past week Carnegie 
Techs varsity golf team lost two 
matches. One of the defeats was 
at the hands of Geneva College 
and the other was at the hands 
of Westminister College.
At the Geneva match, held at 
Beaver Valley Country Club near 
Beaver Falls, the score was 5 to
2 in favor of Geneva. Roy Gin
gery and Dave Kelso were the. 
lone Tech vibtors as Techs best 
rounds of the day were Neal 
Dirito with 78, Gingery with 79, 
and Kelso with 80.
On Friday the team traveled to 
New Castle Country Club a n d 
met their second defeat of the 
week by a score of 5 Va to  1 %. 
Techs points were registered by 
Gingerys victory and Dick Mor
risons tie match. Low rounds by 
Tech were registered by Dirito 
with 82, Dale Johnson with 84, 
Gingery with 85, and Morrison 
with 86.
Cmderman To Host St. Vincenf
As part of the Spring Carnival 
activities, there will be a track 
meet Saturday afternoon at 1:30 
in the Tech Bowl.
Carnegie Tech will host St.
Vincent.
Although the Tartans have 
only one meet this season, their 
hopes in finishing the rest of th6 
season undefeated look promising,
SUMMER JOBS
for STUDENTS
NEW S64 directory lists 20,000 summer job 
openings in 50 states. MALE or FEMALE. Un
precedented research for students includes exact 
pay rates and job details. Names employers and 
their addresses for hiring in industry, summer 
camps, national parks, resorts, etc., etc., etc. 
Hurry!! jobs filled early. Send two dollars. Satis
faction guaranteed. Send to: Summer Jobs Di
rectory  P.O. Box 13593  Phoenix, Arizona.
SENIORS . . . dont forget to 
come in for your Degree Ring 
. . . a good supply in stock . . . 
no waiting . , .
,YfYcY 
hnn/0cnyb
<AU Jewelry subject to Fed. Tax)
THE TROUBLE WITH SPORTS SHIRTS IS 
iWHEN YOU WEAR AN ORDINARY TIE WITH ONE 
YOU LOOK LIKE A GANGSTER
HOWEVER there are times that are a little too dressy for an unadorned throat (as when youre 
wearing a blazer), and for these the Ascot is finding increasing favor. Women apparently find 
them madly attractive, and men like their go-to-hell feel once they get around to wearing them. The 
trick seems to be in tying them; actually, there is nothing to it. All you do is slip the Ascot around 
your neck, inside the collar, and loop one end over the other below your adams apple; and loop ittwice so it wont slip down your chest after awhile. ? It just so happens that, foreseeing this demand,' 
we have gone into the Ascot game. You will find a nice selection at your Eagle Ascot store, which! 
is the same store where you buy Eagle Shirts. * Not to change the subject, but this magnificent 
short-sleeve sports shirt at about $9.00 which we have portrayed here is an exclusive Eagle patten? 
in two-ply cotton oxford, and comes in blue, green, or burgundy stripes alternating with skinnier? 
black ones on an Eagles Cream ground. * We also have a magnificent matching check; lets see if 
we can describe it: its something as though we ran transverse stripes in the same colors across this. 
pattern. No, thats a terrible description, youd better go take a look for yourself. If you dont; 
know where that would be, drop a line to Miss Afflerbach and shell write right back with the news.,
$ l*w, RMIB 5HJRTMAKERS, QVAKERTOWP, PENNSYLVANIA
(Elje kmrlf House
Traditional Apparel for Men
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
Phone 521-7600 
Open Taertfty nt Tban4*y Tentaci VOLU ME64
