Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 39 No. 9CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1945
Two Mens Honoraries 
Revived On Campus 
Under Point System
The Mens Point Committee of 
Student Council, of which Augie 
Binder is chairman, is deciding the 
point system for the two class hon
oraries to be revived next semester, 
Scimitars and Delta Skulls. Points 
will be based on participation in ac
tivities such as sports, publications, 
clubs, the band, and social groups. 
Scimitars and Delta Skulls are soph
omore and junior honoraries. 
Among the usual activities of Scimi
tars are working with Cwens to 
sponsor the Sophomore Hop, acting 
as general aides at social functions, 
helping to enforce freshman regu
lations, and choosing the next years 
crop of Scimitar members. A max
imum of 18 Scimitars will be 
chosen from among those having 50 
or more activities points for the 
freshman year and a scholastic fac
tor of 1.75. Delta Skulls, the junior 
honorary, will choose a maximum of 
155 members from those earning 
more than 50 activities points in 
their sophomore year. The Delta 
Skulls include in their list of ac
tivities the big Junior Prom, col
lection of points for the two honor
aries, and assisting in the council 
social events.
$he Mens Point Committee is al
so computing the point scale for par
ticipation in extracurricular activi
ties. As announced, activities will be 
classified in four categories accord
ing to the work and position involv
ed. The point scale will limit indi
vidual participation in activities to 
a reasonable maximum in order to 
provide opportunity for a greater 
number of students to participate 
actively in extracurricular activi
ties. However, if a student is essen
tial to several activities, he may 
petition Mens Points Committee 
and Student Council to waive the 
rules in his case. These rules will go 
into effect at the beginning of next 
semester.
For the determination of the num
ber of points to be awarded to fresh
men and sophomores by the various 
activities, each organization will be 
given instructions as to the number 
of points that may be awarded. The 
head or governing body will set the 
points for the last two semesters. 
These will be collected and elections 
held in January. Beginning in Feb
ruary, these two honoraries will re
sume their active position on the 
Carnegie Campus.
Stag Dance To Be Held 
After Game On Dec. 15
On Saturday night, December 15, 
after the Penn State basketball 
game a Juke box dance will be held 
in Thistle Hall. Its strictly a stag af
fair (no dates remember) for all 
those who turn out for the game. 
This is the first of a series of dances 
which will be given after each home 
game. Its going to be an on-the-ball 
affair sosee you there.
P. S. Dont worry about the money 
angle kids, because the dance is free.
ODK Senior Honorary 
Has Dinner, Initiation
Omicron Delta Kappa, newly re
activated Senior Mens Honorary, 
held a joint dinner and initiation 
with the Pitt Circle at the Univer
sity Club on Monday, December 10.
During the war, a faculty group 
consisting of President Doherty, 
Dean Warden, Professor Mulhenbruch, and Max E. Hannum car
ried on the activities of this organ
ization.
Student members recently chosen 
for Omicron Delta Kappa are: Rob
ert K. Noyes, Harold A. Gottesman, Andrew J. Pepper, Irwin M. 
Aisenberg, Merle T. Wolff, August 
Binder, Robert Straka, Lou Umbach, 
John Seipel and Joseph Nutter.
Members called from the faculty 
were: Director Webster N. Jones, 
Professor John M. Daniels, and Pro
fessor Robert D. Gregg.
The Tech Circle of Omicron Delta 
Kappa was formed when the Dragon 
Society, then Techs Senior Mens 
Honorary, went national in 1942.
Men from the colleges of Fine 
Arts and Engineering are eligible 
for membership in the Circle. To 
qualify, one must be outstanding in 
campus activities and maintain a 
certain average in his classwork.
Fashion Experts Asked 
To Choose Thistle Queens
Who are going to be this years 
Thistle queens? Come to the assem
bly in the Little Theater on Thurs
day, December 20, at 4:15, and youll 
find out, for at that time a jury of 
fashion experts will choose six girls 
as Thistle queens from the following 
panel:
Alpha Epsilon PhiDorothy Federman, Martha Wagman.
Chi OmegaEleanor Yorke, Jane 
Englhardt.
Delta Delta DeltaCarroll Hen
son, Jane Hussey.
Delta Gamma  Frankie Creelman, Jean Garland.
Kappa Alpha Theta  Cyrene 
Hewitt, Pat Werner.
Kappa Kappa Gamma  Anne 
Sweeney, Scottie Atkinson.
Sigma Kappa  Julia Randall, 
Mary Lou Lerch.
Independent  Gerry Jedd, Nor
ma Caplan Segal.
Each sonority nominated two of 
their members as candidates while 
the Thistle staff elected the indepen
dent nominees.
The judges, who will be announc
ed next week, will be representa
tives from the press and fashion ex
perts from the leading department 
stores. The girls will be chosen not 
for beauty alone but also for per
sonality, general appearance, and 
poise. In other words, a pretty face 
with nothing behind it doesnt stand 
a chance. Sharpen your wits, candi
dates! Each winner will get a 
smooth 8x10 photograph and a page 
all to herself in Thistle.
Notice
There will be a very important 
meeting of the Tartan staff Friday 
December 14 at 5 P. M. in the Union. 
All members must be present.
B. Armstrong to Play at Sno-Ball, 
Years First Off-Campus Dance
The fall social season reaches its climax at the Schenley Hotel this Fri
day night when the Student Council presents; its much anticipated SnoBall. With Irv Aisenberg, Tom Lakowski, and Lou Emmel comprising the 
committee-in-charge, there is bound to be an abundance of ideas that will 
go to make this a climax that is a climax.
The vital statistics include the item of expense which runs approxi
mately $2.40 a couple. The time covers the hours from nine to one. The 
place is much too close to that glorified high school on the other side of 
Schenley Park, for the council has arranged to take over the ballroom in 
the Schenley Hotela pleasant var
iation from the gymnasium.
Those who enjoy dancing to really 
good music will be treated to Bernie 
Armstrongs orchestra.
The main attraction of the even
ing will be the end of the Victory 
Bond Drive. The five potential 
queens who have sold the most will 
act as the hostesses during the 
dance, and at the intermission the 
highest seller will be crowned Car
negie Bond Queen with the other 
four as the court.
The dance is semi-formal, but the 
accent falls heavily on the semi. The 
council has ruled that there will be 
no corsages worn. Anyone wearing 
a corsage will be told to remove it at 
the door.
Tickets are on sale in Skibo every 
day between twelve and one, but 
they may also be obtained through 
members of the Student Council.
Home Ec Club Plans 
Xmas Dinner Party
The Christmas meeting of the 
home economics club will be a din
ner on Wednesday, December 12, in 
Recreation Hall of Margaret Morri
son. The dinner was planned by a 
committee headed by Helen Jaffurs, 
who is president of the organiza
tion. After dinner, entertainment 
has been promised. Lt. Lui will 
speak on Christmas in China. All 
members are cordially invited to at
tend.
Pep Rally To Be Held 
Tonite At Thistle Hall
The first pep rally of the year will 
be staged in Thistle Hall tonight 
from 7:00 to 10:00. It will be high
lighted by the appearance of the 
band whose members will form the 
nucleus of the new Kiltie Band. The 
cheerleaders have planned a pro
gram of songs and cheers to get us 
all warmed up for the big game on 
Wednesday. There will be a big stag 
dance in Thistle Hall following the 
rally.
Max Hannum and the team will 
be there, so get out and let the fel
lows know youre behind them all 
the way. Well expect to see you at 
the game Wednesday showing West
minster what real school spirit is.
Comedy, Damask Cheek 
Opens In Little Theater
Last night in the Little Theater 
the Drama Department gave the 
first performance of the Damask 
Cheek, a comedy of manners, by 
John Van Druten and Newbold 
Morris. The play is directed by Tal
bot Pierson.
Two alternating casts have been 
chosen. The first consists of Pat Falkenhain, June Shannon,., Ellen 
Hovde, Roger Brand, Bill Thunhurst, Burt Pollock, Carolyn Cook, 
and Helen Goodman. The second 
cast: Ruth Guberman, Ruth Pivorotto, Sally Rosenberg, Bill Ross, 
Parker Meyers, Burt Pollock, Lucy 
Seibert, and Judy Lambert.
The play will continue for two 
weeks.
Bond Drive Results Will 
Determine Campus Queen
The bond drive is now way over 
its quota with a grand total of $451,- 
649.90. Iris Kwall, chairman of the 
drive, wants to compliment all the 
students and especially the potential 
bond queens who have worked so 
hard to put this last and most im
portant drive over the top.
The climax of the drive will come 
this Friday, December 14, with the 
crowning of the girl who sold the 
most bonds as the Bond Queen and 
the four girls who are next highest 
as her court. The lucky man who 
will do the crowning is Bill Thunhurst.
All Bonds must be in the cash
iers office by Wednesday, December 
12, at four oclock to be counted for 
the contest. The contestants and 
their totals are as follows: Shirley 
Swaney, Delta Gamma, $184,550; 
Linda Lee Cowherd, Freshmen, 
$134,075; Peggy Wentzel, Chi Ome
ga, $78,593.75; Carol Henson, Delta 
Delta Delta, $18,662.40; Peggy Nel
lis, Sigma Kappa, $18,387.50; Doro
thy Feldman, Alpha Epsilon Phi, 
$13,668.75; Helen Jaffurs, Kappa 
Kappa Gamma, $3,506.25; Virginia 
Mulhallan, Independent, $131.25; 
Pat Werner, Kappa Alpha Theta 
$75.00. So any one that wants to 
have one of the lovely candidates 
win, get busy!
The faculty, which is conducting 
its own bond drive, has collected 
$23,367 of their ultimate goal of 
$31,500 according to a report from 
Kent Shaffer, chairman of the drive.
Lost and Found Greeks
I. F. requests that all men who be
long to fraternities that do not have 
chapters on the Tech campus regis
ter with Miss Orr in Dean Yons of
fice as soon as possible, giving the 
name of the fraternity and the col
lege from which they have trans
ferred.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1945
a - Qdtitasi'iA'uncUai^i 
Food for the Mouthsjof Scwelch ... ....
The boys in Welch and Nobell Scobell on the Hill have a gripe and a 
legitimate one it is, too.-They claim that the women in thisInstitute of 
Higher Learning are getting considerably better treatment from the .Ad
ministration than they are, an^ they are perfectly right.
At present, dormitory women are living under a plan whereby they 
pay approximately eighty~f|ve cents a day for breakfast and dinner which* 
is served to them in tfe^ fmi and,in various dorms'seven days a week 
throughout the school year. The boys are offered no. such service, but must 
obtain all their meals at Skibo or elsewhere sans discount. Consequently 
they must pay at least fourteen cents, a day more for their meals than do 
the girls. This sum may seem like a small amount of money, but fourteen 
cents a day adds up to $33.40 a year which could buy quite a few of the 
essentials of life for the lads who are squeezing through CIT on a shoe
string. The prices they have to pay for food make i extremely difficult for 
the veterans to live on their allotments, for they find themselves spending 
an absolute minimum of ninety-five per cent of their allowances on food 
each month. Many of trhe boys who possess larger-than-average appetites 
find th^t $he5r eat up theijr allotments before the end of the month and must 
live on one meal a day until their checks arrive. When the checks are late, 
as they usually are, the vets dont eat at all. The boys who aye not receiving 
veterans allowances and who dont have pockets lined with gold are in an 
even worse position than are the vets, for they must work for their spending 
money outside of school hours and in many cases they find that they can
not earn in their spare time anywhere near the fifty dollars a month they, 
shouldSpend on food. ?. > V .
* This matter has been brought to the attention of the administration, 
but thy have , taken no action upon it. They claim that they have no 
space available in which to serve all the dormitory students from Welch 
and Scobell at one time. They say that under the system the girls use, any 
man going home weekends would not save money in the long run because 
he would be paying for meals here while he was eating elsewhere. They 
say that they cant afford to remedy the situation now because their Com
mons department is already running in the red. In answer to the space 
problem we have three suggestions, 1) that the men could be served in the 
Inn from five to six before the girls arrive. 2) that the Beanery could be 
used to serve oi}lyr dorm men during the morning and evening hours, and 
3) that cards coulci e issued each month to dormitory men which would 
entitle th&in to a staridafrd meal served along with the other food in both 
rooms in Skibo. We believe that a poll could be taken to decide whether 
the iHtai prefer a discount on a seven or a five day week basis, and that 
they would be willing to abide by the majority decision. No matter how 
the plan is arranged, even a small saving will be of great help to the dor
mitory boys. We realize that the Administration is now losing money on 
Commons, but we dont feel that the dormitory men should be forced 
to bear the brunt of the loss. We firmly believe that in all fairness to the 
students, the burden of Commons debts should be borne equally by men 
and women dormitory students and that some method can be devised, if the 
Administration is willing, whereby the men may eat more cheaply.
Laurels for Council
Congratulations to Council are in order again this week for the excel
lent job they have done on the mens point system which has just been 
reestablished.
During the war years, it was necessary for a few men to dominate the 
activities on campus in order that they might remain alive. In peacetime 
such a state of affairs is extremely unhealthy and may lead to the control 
of the campus by one power group. The point system will in large part 
prevent this sad state of affairs and will also put a limitation upon the 
activities eager beavers who cant restrain themselves from overworking 
in extra-curricular affairs.
The choosing of the members of campus honoraries has often been 
inflhed more by political considerations than by the worth of the canditates in. the past. If the point system is enforced in the future, it will be 
almost impossible for unworthy men to receive the honor of membership in 
Scimitar or Delta Skull. And even ODK, the national honorary, will doubt
less consider the point system in future elections and may thus be able 
henceforth to choose its members more fairly.
It is -important that every man at CIT understand the rules of the 
point system and they should be of interest to every woman as well. We 
advise you to turn to Student Council Minutes and familiarize yourselves 
with the excellent piece of work council has just completed for you.
, Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
stafj in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to 6 construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh IS, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 200 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
MMMNTIO WOn NATIONAL DVtRTWM Y
National Advertising Service, Inc. "* After office Hours Cal1
College Publishers Representative Editor-in-chief .......................SC. 6519
4io Carnegi aTth New York. n. y. Business Manager . t...... .EM. 9424
Cmcmo * Be*tow  Lot Amili  Sa Francisco r>
Entered as second -class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1870. 
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscriptioa Price SI.10 per year. ,
Editor . ..  ...................................................... ................................................. Clara Herron
Business Manager ...................................................................... Harold Gottesrhn
Student Council
Eighth Meeting, 1945-46 
December 2, 1945
The meeting was called to order at 7:20 p. m.
Present: Misses Clark; Emmell, Haushalter, Horridge, Irwin, Price, Stewart; Messers. Aisenberg, 
Binder, Nutter, Lakowski, Straka, Stine, and Yurchison.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Social Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the Frosh Mixer for 
incoming Freshmen next semester be changed to 
February 22, 1946.
Motion carried.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the All-school stag 
dances after basketball games be free of charge.
Motion carried. t
Mr.; Aisenberg moved that corsages be eliminat
ed from the Sno-Ball dance at the Schenley Ho
tel, December 14, 1945.
Motion carried.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that it be added to the 
By-laws Qf the Constitution that one of the So
cial Chairmans duties shall be to inform the 
Dean of Women of all All-school social events.
Motion carried.Mr. Aisenberg moved that the following peti
tions be approved by the Student Council.
The Tecvets request permission to hold a closed 
dance in Thistle Hall December 7, 1945 from 9:00 
to 1:00.
The Newman Club petitions Student Council for 
permission to use Thistle Hall for a closed dance 
January 4, 1946 from 9:00 to 1:00.
The War Bond Committee petitions Student 
Council for permission to spend $15 for rental of 
ferns, $9 for material for the throne and $30 or 
less for the queen and her attendants for the 
crowning of the War Bond Queen at the SnoBall Dance.
Interfraternity Council requests permission to 
change the date of its dance from December 7, 
1945 to January 11, 1946.
The original date has been found to be unsat
isfactory because of a conflict with another school 
function.
The sophomore P&D students petition Student 
Council to hold a closed party on the top floor of 
the Fine Arts Building on December 18, 1945 from 
8:00 to 12:00.Kappa Kappa Gamma Sorority petitions Stu
dent Council for permission to hold their annual 
initiation and formal closed dance December 15, 
1945 at the University Club.
M. M. Senate petitions Student Council to hold 
a tea for the faculty of Margaret Morrison from 
4:15 to 6:00 in. the Union on December 19, 1945.
Motion carried.
Points and Keys Committee:
It was moved that the following Mens Points 
System be approved and reinstated February 3, 
1946.ACTIVITIES HONORARIES
The Points Committee refers only to the Mens 
Point Committee. All points must be approved by 
the Mens Point Committee.
ARTICLE I
Scimitars
Part I. Membership.
1. There are to be no more than 18 Scimitars.
2.- A man must be a sophomore in good stand
ing, with an average factor of not less than 1.75 
to become a member of the Scimitar society.
3. He must have at least 50 points computed 
as shown in Part II.
4. The presidents of the sophomore class of 
Engineering and Art School shall be automatically 
Scimitars if they can pass the requirements in 
Sections 1 and 2, and have at least 25 points com
puted as shown in Part II.
Part II. Points.
Jlett&i to the Cditox.
The mood of the spectators at the 
Tech vs. Juniata game was anything 
but one of good sportsmanship. If 
our Basketball team played as poor
ly as Tech student watch, We 
couldnt expect them to defeat even 
a grade school team. Our team has 
not only to play the game, but also 
to be good sports. Cant the specta
tors at least be good sports? Sure, 
there were cheers in abundance and 
the cheer leaders did a good job; but 
what happened toward the end of 
the game? A pessimistic attitude 
overtook the onlookers and they 
jeered comments like, Whats the 
matter with you?, at their own 
team! A few students actually left 
the game before the finish, and 
wouldnt you feel let down if you 
were out on the floor straining to 
win points in the last few minutes 
and your supposed colleagues walk
ed out on you?
The pity me, under-dog attitude 
is far too ready to pop out in Tech 
students when they become the least 
bit downed, and our up and coming 
school spirit is being threatened by 
its nasty undertone. If we, as spec
tators, remain optimistic and stay 
behind our team until the game is 
finished, we are much more likely to 
see Tech winning. The old 
about being a good loser 
and it applies to spectators as 
as players.
Sincerely,
Eleanor Jackson.
basketball, swimming, tennis, soccer, or track 
teams shall be awarded 1 to 15 points at the dis
cretion of the coach. Any member of the fresh
man cross-country, rifle, golf or hockey, cheer
leaders shall be awarded from 1 to 10 points at 
the discretion of the coach. Any member of the 
Intramural team will receive 1 to 5 points at the 
discretion of the Intramural Board. A maximum 
of 25 points is to be awarded for participation in 
athletics of any kind.continued, on page 6
THE VAGABOND
Style No. 4529
*6-50 .8-50
W.L.D0UGLA5 W SHOE CO., BROCKTON IS. MASS.
PITTSBURGH
203 FIFTH AVENUE
417-19 East Ohio St., N. S.
6223 Frankstown Ave. (E. Liberty) 1202 Market St., Wheeling

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN9
Tau Beta Pi Will Tutor 
Freshman Engineers
Tali Beta Pi, national engineering 
and science honorary, is reopening 
its program of tutoring for first se
mester freshmen of the Engineer
ing School. It was announced at the 
freshman chemistry lecture today 
that help is available to those who 
need and want assistance in physics, 
chemistry, and math.
Tau Beta Pi has not offered this 
assistance for two years.
Tutoring is free, and students can 
receive up to one hour a week in any 
subject. Students will be taken by 
sections during the free afternoon 
hours of the Tau Beta Pi tutors.
Students may sign up in their 
math classes.
Announces Meetings
Carnegie Institute of,. Technology 
is honored to-have one of its prom
inent faculty members-, Robert D. 
Gregg, head of the department of 
history, as Chairman of the Foreign 
Policy Association.
As chairman of the Association, 
Dr. Gregg is particularly interested 
in getting the student bodyqto take 
an active part in the Pittsburgh 
chapter. The Foreign Policy Asso
ciation is one of thirty branches, of 
a national organization whoge head
quarters is in New York City. The 
object of the association is to-make 
an impartial study of international 
problems, particularly those affect
ing the United States. This is1 attain
ed through meetings ? and publica
tions. The meetings are held with 
two or more speakers present in or
der to give the audience different 
points of view. Publications whh 
are written by trained research peo
ple of organized standing are sent 
to all members. h >'
The organization plans three 
types of meetings during the year. 
The first is free to the public as a 
civic contribution and is held in 
Stephen Foster Memorial Auditor
ium. The second is a series of larger 
meetings held in the Carnegie Music 
Hall, at which the admlssibn is 
greatly reduced for members. The 
third typ consists of luncheon dis
cussions sponsored by a club of 
Pittsburgh industrial and prof es-* 
sional leaders, for which speakers of 
national and in some cases interna
tional reputation are obtained. Live
ly discussions follow all meetings 
to enable the people to ask ques
tions and make statements in the 
true forum Spirit.' *;w ' *
Dr. Gregg urges the C. I. T. stu
dent body to take advantage of the 
opportunity to har fano'us speak
ers which the association prsents
is sixty cents a semester or one da8- 
lar for the school year.
Plans for future programs will lqje 
indicated in the Tartan or by pos
ters placed around the campus.
  -p-ir
WILL fcUTAlNATe. FlG-HT 
 OVfc*. WHO ^ TO \H THE 
_________EtOWEJfcS OH____________
NO co*.$ACrfLS MN NTIO
ATL IMDDOOOOOOO
)? TEjCH 
FORMAL 1949Chocolate Hour Will Be 
First Freshman Affair
The officers of the freshman class 
of Margaret Morrison are holding 
their first social function of the year 
by giving a Chocolate Hour in 
Recreation Hall on Tuesday, Decem
ber 18, from 4 to 6 oclock. The pro
gram is a very delightful one that 
should be especially entertaining to 
all freshman Maggy Murphs. The 
program includes music appropriate 
for the Yuletide season and Gersh
win melodies, such as Rhapsody in 
Blue. The decorations will also coin
cide with the Yuletide spirit. Hot 
chocolate and cookies will be servMONEY SAVE& \H \Yfc, 
ENOOCrH TO &OV ^ 
i&o lab -,0uf>LES MaisP cLo$t ogm
WITHOUT WfcSSINCr TWt FLOWERS
Community F und Drive 
Drops Behind Quota
Carnegie Tech is shamefully be
hind it its contributions to the Com
munity Fund Drive. It is time, in 
fact its past time, that we tossed in 
our nickels, dimes, or dollars. We 
have a quota this year of over six 
thousand dollars to fill, and, in spite 
of the fact that the drive has been in 
full swing for several months, we 
have only a meager beginning with 
four hundred and forty dollars. Of 
all the educational groups in the 
city, we hit the bottom of the list.
Oh, Mu. Anthony
Date Bureau Takes 
Action for Sno-Ball
Are you lonesome? Do you want 
a date? Your problem is solved! A 
date bureau is now in operation for 
the Sno-Ball, December 14. All one 
has to do for the thrill of a lifetime 
is call Irv Aisenberg (SC. 9450) or 
Eleanor Squitieri (JA. 4151) or 
write to either of them through in
ter-school mail. When you write to 
them, be sure to include your name, 
height, color of hair and eyes, hob
bies, department, type of personal
ity, and any other thing you think 
would interest someone.
Irv has had a lot of experience in 
this type of thing for he successfully 
coupled thirty or forty people for a 
dance this summer. So, if you dont 
know anyone on campus yet, be 
sure to get in touch with Irv or Ele
anor. More people will have a good 
time, and the dance will be a greater 
success because of the date bureau.
The officers of the class, along 
with Miss Spear, class adviser, 
planned this social.
Womens Athletic Assn. 
Revives Basketball Team
, The Womens Athletic Association 
is trying to revive the old tradition 
of intercollegiate sports for women. 
Right now the drive is on for a 
basketball team. A notice will be 
posted on the W. A. A. board in the 
girls locker room on which to sign
Thistle Notice
Will the following people please 
report to the Thistle office this Fri
day between three and five to see 
Dorothy Marie Hill 
Delmar Damrau 
Carl Stunnergren 
R. L. Bangert 
Thomas Lakowski 
Mrs. C. Hewitt 
Dorothy Le Winter 
Violet Wilson
So far only about ten people have 
been coming faithfully to practices 
on Monday at 5:00 and Thursday at 
4:00.. At, least twelve girls are need
ed to work up a good team of six. As 
soon as enough potential players 
have been collected, arrangements 
will be made for a schedule of games 
with other schools.
Girls of all four colleges at C. I. T. 
are eligible to try out for the team. 
The usual credit will be given for 
extra athletic hours. Thirty hours 
win plaid numerals; ninety hours, a 
regulation W. A. A. sweater; one 
hundred and twenty hours, a Car
negie
Thats the answer
5^
A personal chccking account affords 
a practical means of keeping simple 
records of receipts and expenditures. 
Such records arc extremely helpful 
in budgeting expenses and making 
out tax returns.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANKBOTTLED UNDE* AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COU COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEQE TARTAN___________________________TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1945
fyn&t fylaiteA.
Now that Thanksgiving vacation 
is no longer something to look for
ward to and mid-semester exams 
are over, we can settle down to con
centrate on Christmas vacation. 
Just to keep life from getting too 
dull, the frats and sororities have 
been busy attending social func
tions.
Just to be different, the Chi Ome
gas spent Friday, November 30, at 
the Community Center in Charter 
Oaks. It was really something  
with a house full of pledges, actives, 
and alumni. Both going and coming 
back on the bus, the girls took it up
on themselves to entertain the driv
er and the passengers with Chi
O songs. 1
The Tri Delts celebrated the fiftyseventh anniversary of national 
founders day Wednesday, Novem
ber 28. The Tech Tri Delts provided 
the entertainment at a banquet 
given by the Pittsburgh* Chapters. 
Peggy Kidwell gave a reading and 
Marion Dyck lead the singing. The 
dinner was held at the College Club 
and the guest speaker was Mrs. 
Francis Running Farmer, former 
doctor in India.
The Delt pledges had a party for 
the actives Saturday night. The 
house was fixed up like a haunted 
castle. In entering, the actives and 
their dates had to use the back cel
lar entrance. As the couples came 
in blank cartridge pistols were fired 
that put everyone in the proper 
receptive mood for moans and 
screams which came over a loud 
speaker system. Passage ways were 
blocked, bannisters electrically 
charged, and high steps were in
stalled to add atmosphere (and also 
to ruin nylons we suspect). After 
all the shenannigans were over 
there was dancing in the cellar. The 
pledges gave a skit, fooled with the 
lighting, and presented gifts. Each 
present was accompanied by a neat 
piece of poetry. 4
The DUs had their pledge-spon
sored Christmas Dance. The house 
was extremely well decorated in 
pine branches, cones, and mistletoe. 
The features of the evening were 
the singing around the tree and the 
giving out of the novel presents 
with humorous yerses. Still a mys
tery is the cake, two feet across and 
decorated with the motto and seven 
stars of DU, that turned up in the 
kitchen.
The Thetas really celebrated on 
Saturday, December 1. After their 
initiation ceremony, they held a 
dinner and formal dance at the Uni
versity Club. The whole affair was 
something which every Theta will 
remember.
More Pajama partiesthis time it 
was the Kappas. They spent the 
week-end at the Girl Scout house 
in North Park. All the Kappas agree 
that it was a swell week-end, but it 
was mighty cold. In fact, it was so 
cold that everyone huddled togeth
er in front of the fireplace on the 
first floor.
The PiKA pledges used the thea
ter as their theme last Saturday 
night. Pledge Ed Clark was the in
ebriated master of ceremonies. The 
Saturday night theater crowd was 
enormous. All the pledges had a part 
in the entertainment which was like 
a vaudeville show. As a BoogieWoogie pianist/Ray Griffith really 
out-did himself. One of the high
lights of the evening was the bath 
which Frankie Creelman gave 
Harry Ransom. Jack Sherwood had 
as his date BWOC of two years ago 
Judy Skeehan, who is still a mem
ber of the WAVEs and is stationed 
in Baltimore. ",
Bow-Bell-Ballthats what the 
SAEs called their house party Sat
urday, December 1. Petty girl and 
glamor boy pictures draped the 
backs of the guys and gals. Each 
person had to imitate the picture on 
his or her back.
Schenley
Hotel
Modern
Comfortable
Convenient
Dining Room Coffee Shop
Fifth Ave. at Bigelow Blvd.MA. 6400
YMCA To Present 
Christmas Assembly
The annual Y. M.-C. W. C. A. 
sponsored Christmas Chapel service 
will be given next Tuesday at eleven 
oclock on the first floor of the Fine 
Arts building. As in years past this 
will be the religious highlight of 
the fall semester. A brief address by 
President Doherty will be follow
ed by an impressive choral service 
in which the student body will join 
the choir in a number of favorite 
Christmas Carols.
Also on the Y schedule is the 
Christmas Dinner to be held next 
Monday at six in the Union. The 
menu will feature chicken at sixtyfive cents a plate in an effort to 
make up for the last suppers failure 
to satisfy everyone. Rev. Hugh T.
Civil Engineers Sponsor 
Smoker, Movies at Union
On Friday, December 14, at 8:00 
P. M., the Carnegie Tech Student 
Chapter of Civil Engineers will 
hold a smoker at the Carnegie 
Union. At this meeting movies of 
the Cleveland inspection trip will 
be shown. Sound movies of various 
engineering subjects, and current 
events will be followed by the serv
ing of refreshments. All members of 
the Civic Engineering Department 
are cordially invited.
Kerr, formerly of the Shadyside 
Presbyterian Church and recently 
returned from Europe, will be the 
guest speaker. As there is a limited 
supply of tickets, all who wish to 
attend should contact either Mr. 
Davis or Bob Straka as soon as pos
sible.
Skfbo Scraps
Things all seem to be pointing to
ward next Friday, what with Techs 
big dance even being mention on 
the cover of the latest Colliers if 
one looks closely enough. Even in 
all our ethnocentrism (courtesy C711) however, we hardly think it 
was intentional. Still, the past week 
has been far from uneventful . . .
Watch in your local theater for 
the Battle of the Ages: the DUs 
versus the Beta Sigs in Ping Pong. 
The winners we hear get top prior
ity at McGill ... In the mailbag: a 
Philippine Xmas card from Sgt. 
Nick Rogers former member of the 
Tech ASTP ... We wuz robbed 
the sick list grabbed both Bill 
Scherb and Stan Kohn from the 
Hannunien . . . Pat Cautley busy 
planning her approaching wed
ding . . .
Has everyone seen Joel Bigelmans new red flannels; he seems 
quite proud of them . . . Add to list 
of welcome dischargees; ex-Army 
man Ernie Sherry, who expects to 
start classes in February, and for
mer sailor Jerry Brickman, who 
may start a little later . . . Bill 
Thunhurst and Lois Eicher at the 
Playhouse . . . Shirley Enslin and 
Merle Wolff both with coldsCoin
cidence? . . . The Tartan really 
missed the boat on the biggest news 
of last weekRag Ill never give 
my pin away Lansbery has hung 
a DU sign on Dell I changed his 
mind Miller . . .
Why Mary L. Sneddens been 
walking around on clouds lately? 
George Matthews has seemed quite 
happy lately with a certain Janie 
from McGill . . . Navy man Joe 
SchlafTman on a quick visit, in the 
Skibo last week . . . Berkowitz has 
been running around insisting that 
everyone glance at his uncles pic
tures on page 126 of the latest 
Life . .. .
New Triangle: Ruth Pivorotto 
Coy Collirigwood  Bobby Jones 
. . . Ann Trautman and Harry 
Hamilton seen together the last 
seven weeks . . . Marion Cummings 
with Ken Bradway, just in from the 
Navy; theyre quite happily pinned 
. . . People still wondering about 
Jerry Sunseris lapsa linguae last 
Friday . . . Poor Bennard Still 
waiting for Goldie to call . . . Dave 
Kobemuss and Louise Fay doing 
right well in a steady sort of way 
. . . Jack Loftis and Jane Grimm 
. . . Dick Rowan and Harriet . . . 
Pe 1717 . . . Ch 6687 . . .Sc 2276 
. . . Ma 9044 ... Ha 5652 ... Woo.
WHEREVER YOU GO 
FOR THE HOLIDAYS 
YOUR TRIP BEGINS 
WITH...YOUR BAGGAGE. 
SEND IT BY
RAILWAY
EXPRESS
J
m
NATION

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5/. TECH SPORTS .*.
Tartans Split in Basketball
Team Drops Home 
Opener To Juniata
Carnegie Techs passers continuel 
in their hard luck role as they drop
ped a 53-41 decision to the Indians 
from Juniata Thursday evening. It 
seemed that the breaks were against 
the Tartans throughout the contest.
The home team jumped into the 
lead after 15 seconds of play when 
Gene Hannum hoked one in from 
just inside the center circle. The In
dians however came right back 
with Gene Brumbaugh showing the 
way and they held a close 12-11 
edge at the close of the initial quar
ter. In the second canto it was still 
anybodys ball game as the Indians 
stretched their lead to 26-23. Gene 
Brumbaugh, Juniatas brilliant cen
ter, displayed some fine basketball 
talent in this period as he racked up 
3 field goals and 3 fouls for a total 
of 9 points. This Brumbaugh is real* ly a fine ball player. He was murder 
under the basket.
Both teams were checking close 
in the third period and as a result 
each aggregation registered only 8 
points, to make the score read 34-31 
going into the final stanza. It was 
here that the Indians turned on the 
.steam. As usual with Brumbaugh 
showing the way they chalked up 19 
points to the Tartans ten to ice the 
encounter 53-41.
It looked like Gene Hannum was 
going to have a field day for a while 
as he registered 8 markers in the 
first quarter. Juniata then put two 
. men on Gene for most of the last 
three stanzas, but he nevertheless 
chalked up 9 more points to lead the 
iTartan scoring with a total of 17. 
Brumbaugh led both teams in the 
< scoring department by registering 
25 points.
Much credit should be given to 
Paul Kuzma, lanky Tartan pivot 
jnan, who was very effective under 
the hoop scoring 11 points. Lew 
Heiles and Stan Kohn were also 
very instrumental in the Tartan de
fense. Joe Harmouth played a nice 
game despite the fact that he was 
handicapped by a sprained wrist 
sustained in the Geneva contest.
At the halftime the Tartan fans 
were entertained by a novel inter
pretation of the Highland Fling 
presented by the pledges of the 
Theta Tau professional honorary. 
The cheerleaders performed mag
nificently, but it is my opinion that 
v the handful of Tech students that 
were up at Geneva cheered better 
than the crowd at this game. The 
gym should be packed for every 
home game with Tech students be
cause all you need to gain admis
sion is your registration card. Lets 
have everyone out for the West
minster game this Wednesday and 
really show the team that the stu
dent body is behind them!
Summary:
C.I.T.FFGTJuniataF FGT
Hannum, 18117Grote, f306
Jewell, 000Restuccia, f328
Kuzma, c43 11Brumbaugh, c89 25
Kohn, g102King, g6012
Heiles, g215Leeper, g102
Harmouth, 204Constable, 00O
Chetlin, f000Furrer, 000
Butler,  
Totals
1
18
0 2 
5 41Totals211153
RefereeRhiney Kress. 
UmpireJoe Zurilla.
Skibos Come To Life 
To Defeat Allegheny
Techs rapidly-improving quintet 
gave Coach Max Hannum a birth
day present last Saturday night in 
the form of a 43-42 win over Alle
gheny at Meadville. I dare say it 
was the most hair-raising present 
Max ever got, as the outcome wasnt 
decided until the final whistle blew.
Allegheny started like a house 
afire and had a 5-0 lead before Tech 
could settle down. Then, Joe Har
mouth started the visitors rolling by 
taking a pass from Lew Heiles on a 
fast break, scoring, then sinking a 
free throw. Tech found itself up 
against a man-for-man defense for 
the first time this year and finally 
got a chance to use its give-and-go 
system. Harmouth and Paul Kuzma 
combined talents for the next tally 
as Joe passed to Paul, who faked, 
turned around and spotted Joe free 
as a breeze under the hoop. The rest 
was routine. After Gene Hannum 
dropped a foul shot, Heiles attempt
ed one. The ball bounced right back 
to him, and he sent a nice pass into 
Kuzma directly under the basket 
for another shot. McClure tossed in 
a long set shot for Allegheny as the 
quarter ended, 10-8Tech.
After McClure had popped in an
other, the Tartans got busy again 
and soon had a 5-point edge. C. T. 
Butler sank a free-one, and Hannum 
picked off his guard to score on a 
lay-up. Kuzma dropped a pivot shot 
and Tech was on its way. Allegheny 
got busy and took advantage of the 
small size of the court to rack up 
several short pop-ups. Techs zone 
defense was working O. K., and Al
legheny just stood back and threw 
em up, only to be pleasantly sur
prised when they all went in. Han
num and Heiles came through with 
successive one-hand shots from the 
foul-line to give Tech its 22-19 mar
gin at the half.
The Tartans again started out to 
put the game on ice in the third 
quarter only to be matched shot-forshot by long Allegheny set-shots. 
Tech was ahead 33-32 at the quar
ters end.
After the start of the final stanza, 
Fhrer and Hannum scored for their 
respective teams and the count was 
Allegheny, 36-35 as Kirkpatrick 
sank a gift throw. Tech took the lead 
again, this time for good, as Kuzma 
broke fast and scored. With the 
score Tech 41, Allegheny 40 and 2 Vz 
minutes to play. Hannum made the 
clincher as he intercepted a pass, 
and dribbled half the court to plunk 
through a lay-up. McMillan tossed 
in a long desperation shot with \Vz 
minutes to go and Tech tried to 
freez it. With just 16 seconds re
maining, Hannum missed a free 
throw and Allegheny broke fast 
down the floor. Tech wasnt going 
to have its first win taken away, 
however, and three Tartans over
took the Gator with the ball, and 
knocked down an attempted shot.
Carnegie G F P Allegheny G F P
Harmouth, f (C.) 3 17 McMillan, f 3 3 9
Hannum, F 7 6 20 McClure, f 6 1 13
Kuzma, c 3 17 Donaldson, c 0 2 2
Heiles, g 2 15 Kirkpatrick, c 3 1 7
Butler, g 0 2 2 Fhrer, g 2 15
Chetlin, g 10 2 Smoot, g * 0 0 0
Johnson, c 113
!*W I WHRinr*, *i *** Kraus, g 113
IB 'W" '  Levinsky, g 0 0 0
16 11 43 16 10 42
Intramural 
Roundup
Volleyball and table tennis were 
the main attractions in the world 
of intramural sports last week. The 
PiKAs and Beta Sigs seem to be the 
big guns in the ping pong leagues, 
but the volleyball mess is more 
scrambled than ever.
There were a few changes in the 
Intramural Board as the draft 
caught John Rose. Logan Dickerson 
has taken over the presidency of 
the organization and Dick Heck
man has been elected vice-presi
dent.
Volley Ball Scene Confused
The Delts were the team of the 
week in volleyball as they nosed 
out the Tau Delts 8-21, 21-8, 21-19 
and grabbed a close decision from 
the PiKAs 21-18, 18-21, 21-19. The 
Betas kept the pace, however, by 
knocking the SAEs out of the run
ning 21-10, 21-16. The PiKAs were 
a close second, but their 21-8, 21-3 
trouncing of the TXs failed to make 
up for their loss to the Delts.
The TXs are going to have to 
widen the cellar in order to make 
room for the fast-falling Beta Sigs, 
who dropped their third and fourth 
consecutive contests  one to the 
DUs by forfeit and the other to 
Scwelch 21-9, 21-7. This by the way 
put Scwelch in a three-way tie for 
first place with the Delts and Betas.
Standings:WonLost
Beta Theta Pi .............. 31
Delta Tau Delta .......... 31
Scwelch ......................... 31
Pi Kappa Alpha .......... 32
Sigma Alpha Epsilon .. 22
Delta Upsilon................ 12
Tau Delta Phi.............. 13
Beta Sigma Rho .......\. 14
Theta Xi ....................... 03
Beta Sigs, PiKAs 
Tops in Table Tennis
Irv Aisenberg, Bennard Perlman, 
and Stan Kohn teamed up to clinch 
the National League for the Beta 
Sigs by downing the Scobell Hall 
table tennis artists 3-0. Perlman and 
Bill Mast waged a battle which 
ended with Perlman ahead 20-22,
21-19, 21-18. The PiKAs meanwhile 
look like the team to beat in the 
American league. Their 3-2 decision 
over the pill-pounders of Theta Xi 
narrowed their competitors down to 
the Betas, who captured three out 
of four singles to whip the Delts 
3-2. Ned Foster and Bob Herbert 
took the doubles from Ted Caridis 
and Tom Barnhart 21-16, 16-21, 21-12 
to clinch the match for the PiKAs.
Tournament Moves On
The singles tournament moved 
into the third round with the feature 
battle being a 21-18, 29-22, 21-17 
victory by Irv Aisenberg over Tom 
Barnhart. The doubles reached the 
quarter finals after a series of tight 
matches: Horelick and Umbach
over Heckman and Brill 21-18, 21-19; 
Mast and Wales over Kondrat and 
Blissell 17-21, 21-12, 21-17; Haberstroh and Dickerson over Amadee 
and Swanson 18-21, 23-21, 21-17; 
Barnhart and Caridis over Herbert 
and Fosten 21-18, 24-22.
Tech Sporting Scene
Dick Heckman
To the faithful few who reminded 
me that this little hunk of print was 
missing from last weeks issue,a 
word of explanation. World War III 
broke loose last Saturday at Frank
lin Field, Philadelphia, and 101,000 
of the 102,000 people there got tram
pled to death. I was one of the less 
fortunate. Philly was loaded Satur
day morning (and by night, every
one was really loaded) and tickets 
were scarce as sun over you know 
where. I wont say I got scalped, 
but, for three bucks I got a seat 
down in the Phila. Navy Yard, 
where they had a radar set which 
lit up every time Navy got the 
ball. Dont let anybody tell you 
Navy was shellacked. They outplay
ed Army for three quarters, but 
Blanchard and Davis had already 
done their usual romping and the 
fact remains that there are four 
quarters to a ball game (except 
over at Pitt, where they quit when
ever Pitt gets ahead.)
Legitimate Mayham
If you want a good nights enter
tainment, try The Gardens on a 
Wed. or Sat. night. Hockey is its 
name and almost anything goes. The 
old place was in an uproar last Wed
nesday when The Hornets took on 
the Hershey Bears. Everybody took 
a beating, including the ref., who 
caught a hockey stick in the side. 
On the other end of the club was a 
spectator who was just a wee bit 
peeved at the whole situation.
My nomination for Beaver-of-theWeek is Bob Straka. Bob is so anxi
ous to raise that 0.0003 factor, that 
he was seen reading People, Poli
tics and the Politician during the 
duller moments of the Juniata game 
last Thursday.
Lets Have Cooperation!
And then there was Mike Evans 
doffing his cap Texas style to all 
the women present and looking par
ticularly disappointed because they 
wouldnt wave back. Next game lets 
see a little co-operation from the 
women!
There seems to be general bitter
ness in Engineering Hall these days 
concerning a little remark made by 
a certain C.S. in the Tartan last 
week. Now if this character wants 
to start knife-throwing, well com
ment briefly on a sport which seems 
to be making itself very prevalent 
on the campus. This sport involves 
two participants (always the same 
ones) who get tremendous pleasure 
from it. There seem to be no rules, 
but the main idea is to get as much 
of everyones attention as possible. 
The sport is usually abandoned by 
children at a very early age, but our 
hero and heroine never tire of it. 
The only comment this column 
would like to make is, for the sake 
of the rest of Techs students who 
like to enjoy their meals, why dont 
these two act their age and k^ep 
their antics out of the Beanery* at 
least, and better still, give it up 
altogether. (Ed.: These are the opin
ions of the columnist and in no way 
reflect the opinions of the staff.)
C S. EDMAN
Printer
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0183

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1945
Discussions on Russian Foreign Policy 
To Be Held Wednesday, Dec. 12 in MMCC
Student Council ...
continued from page 2
2. Members of the Kiltie Band and the Mens 
Glee Club shall receive from 1 to 15 points at 
the discretion of the student manager.
3. Members of the Thistle, Tartan, Tri-Pub
lications, Scottie, and Carnegie Technical staffs 
shall receive 1 point for each 4 hours of active 
service, with a maximum of 10 points from any 
one publication. Members of the Citcommentator, 
Dorm Bagpiper, and other minor publications 
shall receive 1 point for each 4 hours of service 
with a maximum of 5 points from any one pub-, 
lication. No more than 20 points are to be ob
tained from work on publications.
4. Anyone making a 3.15 to 3.50 factor in the 
first semester of his freshman year shall receive 
5 points. A factor of 3.50 to 4.00 shall receive 10 points.
5. All minor sophomore class officers such as 
vice-president, secretary, and treasurer shall re' ceive 5 points.
6. Members of the Y-cabinet shall receive from1 to 8 points.
7. A maximum of 1 point will be given for 
each 2 hours work on dances by the chairman of 
the dance. (Only all-school dance).
8. Any officers or members of any organiza
tions not evaluated in Sections 1 to 9 shall receive
1 to 5 points at the discretion of the Points Com
mittee. No more than 15 points are to be obtained in this way.
9. All minor freshman class officers shall re
ceive 4 points and the presidents of the freshman 
class shall receive 6 points.
10. Non-voting members of Student Council 
shall receive from 1 to 10 points at the discretion 
of the President of Student Council.
Part III. Duties.
1. It shall be the duty of the Scimitars to act 
as the aides of the President of the Sophomore 
Class in class functions.
2. The members of the Scimitar society, in 
partnership with the Cwens, shall have charge 
of the Sophomore Hop.
3. The members of the Scimitar society shall 
work in conjunction with the Freshman Regula
tions and Orientation Committee on any form of 
freshman regulations which may be adopted, and 
shall be directly responsible to Student Council 
for their fulfillment.
4. Members for the following year shall be 
elected by a three-fourths vote of those present 
at the election providing there is a quorum pres
ent.
5. The order of voting on new members shall 
be starting from the man with the highest number 
of points downward.
Article IIDelta Skull
Part I. Membership.
1. There are to be no more than 15 Delta 
Skulls.
2. A man must be a junior in good standing 
with an average factor of not less than 1.75 to 
become a member of the Delta Skull Society.
3. He must have at least 50 points as comput
ed as shown in Part II.
4. The president of the Junior Class of En
gineering and Art School sl^ll be automatically 
Delta Skulls if they can pass the requirements in 
Section 1 and 2, and have at least 35 points, com
puted as shown in Part H.
5. Members for the following year shall be 
elected by a three-fourths vote of those present 
at the election providing there is a quorum pres
ent.
6. The order of voting on new members shall 
be starting from the man with the highest num
ber of points downward.
Part Il.Points.
(Points shall be awarded on the following 
basis).
1. Same as Article I, Part II, Section 1 except 
that the varsity shall be substituted for the fresh
men.
2. Same as Article I, Part II, Section 2.
3. Same as Article I, Part II, Section 3.
4. Same as Article I, Part II, Section 4the 
highest factor obtained either the last semester 
of the freshman year or the first semester of the 
sophomore year.
5. Same as Article I, Part II, Section 5.
6. Same as Article I, Part II. Section 6.
7. Same as Article I, Part II, Section 7the 
chairman of any all-school affair is to receive 10 
points and he can obtain a maximum of 18 points 
for work on dances.
8. Managers or assistants of all varsity teams 
shall receive from 1 to 10 points with a maximum 
of 20 possible points.
9. Active members of Theta Tau and Claymore 
Clan who entered in the fall, active members of 
social fraternities who have been members for at 
least one year, and members of Alpha Phi Omega 
and the Scimitars shall all receive 5 points. Mem
bers of the Scarab shall receive 5 points.
10. Same as Article I. Part II. Section 8.
11. Padticipants in Intramural sports shall re
ceive from 1 to 5 points for each sport at the 
discretion of the Intramural Board.
12. Non-voting members of Student Council 
shall receive from 1 to 10 points.
13. All incoming voting members of Student 
Council who are elected as sophomores to serve 
as juniors shall receive 15 points.
Part III. Duties.
1. It shall be the duty of the members of Delta 
Skull to act as aides of the Presidents of the 
Junior class in all class functions.
2. The members of Delta Skull society shall
have charge of the Junior Prom.
3. The members of Delta Skull society shall
have charge of that part of the administration of
the points program given in Article IV, Part 3. 
Points Committee
Part I. Membership.
1. The membership of the points committee 
shall be as follows:
President of the Interfratemity Council or his 
representative.
President of the Mens Dormitory Council or 
his representative.
President of Citcom Clan or his representative.
The Chairman is to be a member of Student 
Council chosen by the President of Student Coun
cil.2. The members are to be seniors in good
standing.
Part II. Duties.
1. The Points Committee is to evaluate any
activities not included in Articles I, n, or III.
2. The Points Committee is to receive all
points from those interested in membership and 
are to decide the eligible men. The list of men, 
with the number of points they received in each 
activity is to be posted on all bulletin boards for 
at least one week before selection of the men 
takes place. If, during this period, anyone has 
reasons why a man should not become a mem
ber of the Scimitars or Delta Skulls, he is to turn 
in his complaint to the organization concerned. 
That organization shall then investigate the com
plaint and decide whether it is sufficient to justify 
the exclusion of the man. After all complaints 
have been adjusted, the Scimitars and Delta 
Skulls shall then award membership on the basis 
of the highest number of points. The only excep
tion to this is in the case of automatic members 
of the societies. *
3. The members of Delta Skull shall have 
charge of collection of the points from the various 
organizations, and posting of the lists of men 
with their points, and shall act as aides of the 
Points Committee.
Dr. T. Z. Koo Speaks 
At W.S.C.A. Banquet
On Friday, December 7, the stu
dents from the University of Pitts
burgh, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, and the Pennsylvania Col
lege for Women attended a banquet 
in the East Liberty Presbyterian 
Church, which was sponsored by the 
World Student Christian Associa
tion. The address was delivered by 
Dr. T. Z. Koo. This is the first joint 
affair these schools have attended 
since the outbreak of the war four 
years ago.
The guest speaker of the evening, 
Doctor T. Z. Koo, gave an interest
ing speech on the highlights of his 
life, his travels, and several com
ments on J. R. Mott, the founder of 
the Worlds Student Christian Asso
ciation.
After the dinner, the guests were 
put in a festive mood by the singing 
of hymns and Christmas Carols, 
which was led by Mrs. Mimi David
son. Doctor T. Z. Koo also enter
tained the gathering by playing sev
eral Chinese folk songs on a flute 
that he had carved hiself.
The next event which will be held 
by the Tech chapters of the World 
Students Christian Association is to 
be held at the Union. The exact date 
for this event will be given later.
Article IV
The Status of the honor Societies and Election 
of Officers.
Part I.
1. The honor societies are to be responsible to 
Student Council only for such activities as con
cern the whole student body. They are to have no 
individual account but are to act in all financial 
matters as the agents of Student Council.
2. Members of the honor societies are to pay 
no initiation fee.
3. A key will be awarded at the end of the 
year to members in the honor societies.
Part II.
1. The President of the Scimitar and Delta 
Skull shall be those who were called with the 
greatest number of points. In case of tie, there 
shall be an election of the organization to decide 
between those tying.
2. The Vice-president, Secretary, of the Delta 
Skulls and Scimitars shall be chosen by the pop
ular vote of the members of the society.
RESTRICTIONS
In order to prevent any man from obtaining too 
many major positions on campus all activities 
have been classified into four groups with definite
restrictions.
Tomorrow afternoon at four 
oclock the International Relations 
club will hold its next discussion on 
vital problems of Todays interna
tional scene in room 102, Margaret 
Morrison. The subject for tomor
rows meeting will be Russian For
eign Policy, a question that is 
puzzling many people in view of re
cent developments in Iran. The dis
cussion will be spearheaded by Mrs. 
Chapman, who has given several 
talks about Russia on various occa
sions during the past few weeks.
Last weeks meeting about 
French Politics was one of the 
most successful of the semester, 
with so large an attendance that 
the room was almost filled. Several 
of the French officers came and very 
kindly and completely answered 
the questions that were put to them 
by the members of the club.
The officers explained that there 
is a constituent assembly meet
ing in Paris to draw up a new 
constitution for France. If the as
sembly does not complete its task 
in seven months, it will be dis
solved and a new assembly will be 
elected for seven months. Most peo
ple n France of all parties want the 
constitution to be finished as soon as 
possible. When it has been drawn 
up, it will be submitted to the peo
ple for a referendum vote.
At present there are three major
political parties in France, all more 
or less leftist. The most extreme is 
the Communist party; the other two 
parties, the Socialist and the 
M. R. P. (Popular Republican Move
ment) , are very similar, differing 
only on the question of re-instating 
state support of religious organiza
tions and schools, which the former 
opposes and the latter upholds. The 
Socialists and the M. R. P. together 
hold more than half of the seats in 
the assembly, so that when they 
combine they can pass any measure 
that they wish. The other parties are 
too small to have any influence in 
shaping the course of events.
The most important split in the 
constiuent assembly at present ig 
over the form of the legislature. The 
Communists want a one chamber 
legislature, while the M. R. P. and 
General de Gaulle are in favor of a 
two chamber house similar to the 
United States Congress. The Social
ist party has just changed its stand 
on this point, so it is a little uncer
tain which view it will eventually 
support.
General de Gaulle is now the 
Chief of Government, although he 
is not the representative of any of 
the parties. He has more or less the 
support of both the M. R. P. and the 
Socialist parties, and at times that 
of the Communists. His ministry is 
a coalition ministry.
" THE WORLDS MOST HONORED WMTCH
continued on page 7
Stelco Catering Co.
Dependable Service
Equipment and Fine Food for 
WEDDINGS - BANQUETS - RECEPTIONS 
LUNCHEONS - PARTIES
Call for Menus and Prices
c/o Rosenbaum Co. ATlantic 4500
Sixth, Penn and Liberty Avenues COurt 3300

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1945THE OARNEGIE TARTAN7
Student Council ...
continued from page 6
Petitions for acceptance must be approved by 
Student Council.
Group A.Section IPart I.
The Editorial Board of the following Publica
tions:Scottie
Tartan
Technical
Thistle
The Editor of Tri-Publications.
Part n.No person shall 'be in more than one of these 
positions in any one semester.
Section IIPart-1. 'Managers and players of the following varsity 
and junior varsity spdrts:
Basketball i"
Football
Soccer
Swimming
Tennis vV
Track .
Wrestling 
Section inPart I.
All voting members of Student Council.
Section IVPart I.
No person shall be in more than two activities 
in Croup A. in any one semester.
Group B.
Section IPart I.
Members of the following groups:
Cheerleaders
Dormitory Council Officers 
Interfratemity Council Officers 
Interhonorary Council Officers 
Intramural Board Officers 
Kiltie Band
Publications Staff (Remainder)
Scotch and Soda 
Spring Carnival Committee 
Section IPart II.
No person shall be in more than three activi
ties in Group B in any given semester.
Group C.
Section IPart II.
Members of the following groups:
Arts Ball Society 
Chapel Choir 
Citcom Officers 
Dorm Council 
Dorm Officers 
Men's Glee Club 
Honorary Officers 
Interfraternity Council 
Interhonorary Council 
Intramural Board 
Managers Club 
Newman Club Officers 
Orchestra 
Rifle TeamStudent Faculty Liaison Committee 
Tecvet Officers 
Y-cabinet Officers 
Section IPart II.No person shall be in more than four activities 
in Group , C in any one semester.
Group D.
Section IPart I.
Members of the following groups:
"C" Club Officers 
Class Officers
Departmental Club Officers 
International Relations Club Officers 
Radio Club Officers ,
Teknon Officers 
Y-cabinet Officers 
Section IPart II.No person shall be in more than four activities 
in Group D in any one semester.
FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS 
In order to restrict a man further, the follow
ing limitations have been made: If he has had no 
activities in Group A, he is allowed to have the 
following combinations of activities in the remain
ing groups:
3inB1inC1inD
2inB3inC0inD
2inB2inC2inD
2InB1inC4inD
3inB0inc3inD1InB4inc1inD1inB3inc3inD1inB2inc4inD
0inB4inc4inD
If he has had one activity in Group A, he is 
allowed to have the following combinations of 
activities in the remaining groups:
2 in B linC 0 in D
2 in B 0 in C 2 in D
1 in B 2 in C 1 in D
1 in B linC 3 in D
0 in B 4 in C 0 in D
0 in B 3 in C 2 in D
0 in B 2 in C 4 in D
1 in B 0 in C 4 in D
Lost and Found
Weve had reports from Mr. Jor
dan, the man who takes care of the 
lost and found department located 
near the Post Office, and Mrs. Pick, 
the woman in Margaret Morrison 
who keeps all lost articles found in 
that building, that many careless 
students might locate valuable lost 
property at either of these places. 
Here is a list of all the articles they 
have collected:
Mrs. Picks office:
1 pack of Camel cigarettes (stale?)
1 plaid wool shirt 
1 brown rayon shorts (rrruf!)
6 babushkas (huh?)
3 prs. of pigskin gloves 
1 pr. of kid gloves
1 pr. of fabric gloves
2 pr. of glasses and three cases (of what?)
1 string of beads
1 Parker pencil 
1 pen
1 Freshman beanie (slightly used)
1 umbrella
4 books (last years)
1 pr. fur mittens 
Mr. Jordans office:
1 Plane and Spherical Trigonometry 
1 Harbrace Handbook of English (we 
could use that)
1 Logarithmetic Trig tablesname of 
owner, G. Bain 
1 Social Institutionsname of owner 
Jeanne Anderson 
1 Laboratory Manual of Qualitative An
alysis
1 Psychology by Shaffer & Schoen 
1 Experiments in Organic Chemistry by 
Friesername of ownerHarriet Sidler
1 trench coat 
1 red silk scarf 
1 brown suit coat
1 note bookname of ownerMarion 
Ebert
1 note bookno name
Motion carried.
Mr. Binder was appointed Chairman of the 
Mens point System.
It was moved that the first Delta Skull and 
Scimitar members be elected by the Mens Ac
tivities Point Committee under the jurisdiction 
of Student Council.
Motion carried.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that a total of 5 points 
maximum per semester be given to men making 
posters for All-school dances at the discretion of 
the Publicity Chairman.
Motion carried.
It was suggested that the Scottie staff would 
like a' special key instead of the All-school key.
It was moved that the Presidents of Panhellenic Council and Dorm Council be added to the 
Keys Committee.
Motion carried.
Freshmen Regulations Committee:
It was noted that some freshmen, who have 
not passed the Traditions Examination, are par
ticipating in activities. It is requested that those 
who have not passed the test must do so as a 
Re-exam is given.
Special Committee:
Mr. Yurchison was appointed to revise the Fine 
Arts Ball Constitution.
Meeting adjourned at 10:15 p. m.
Respectfully submitted,
Barbara Irwin,Secretary.
Music Students Plan 
Recital for Sunday
On Sunday, December 16, 1945, 
the students of the department of 
music will give a recital in the Ex
hibition Room, College of Fine Arts 
at 8:15 P. M. The program is as fol
lows:
1. Sonata for Violoncello and Piano in
B Flat major ...........................Mozart
Allegro poco maestro 
Andante
Allegro non troppo, ma giocoso 
Jane Kalbfus, cello, and 
Carol Myers, piano.
2. Recitativo ed eria, Deh vieni, non
tardar (Le Nozze de Figaro. Mozart 
Anne Shively, soprano
3. Concerto in A minor....................Grieg
Betty Walter, piano 
Second piano, Mr. Janson
4. Sonata for Violoncello and Piano in
A minor .............................Boellmann
Maestoso
Allegro con fuoco 
Andante 
Allegro molto 
Burton Dines, cello, and 
Imogene Grove, piano 
Accompanist, Matthew Frey
Theta Tau Takes Six
In Hydro Lab Ceremony
Theta Tau, national professional 
engineering fraternity, held its in
formal initiation at the hydraulics 
lab, Thursday night, December 6. 
On the Tech campus Theta Tau is 
rated as an honorary because of its 
high scholastic requirements. How
ever, a good record in activities is 
required also.
This years initiates are: John
Seward, William Perry, Samuel 
Collier, Burton Quint, Alex Sher
man, and Robert Sharbaugh. Rolf 
Weil and John Harstine were taken 
into the fraternity this summer.
King's Barber Shop
For A Good Haircut 
Woodlawn Apartment Building
Telephones
on Wheels
SPECIAL STUDENT'S MODEL!
Sensational New
VtRWYIA CmcNTt
\Yfc,YconW,hhel,
You can be a mathematical wizard with 
this sensational, now Multi-Slide Rule. It is a 
professional technician's scalenot a toy. 
Now especially designed for students' use. 
Anyone can use it Sturdily built Clear, 
legible print. SLIDE INDICATOR OF 
GLEAMING PLASTIC. Fits 3-ring binder. 
Valuable far beyond its meagre price. 
Sold at only $1.00 (complete with carrying 
case) as an introductory oiler. No stamps, 
please. If you are not more than pleased, 
return it within 10 days and your $1.00 will 
be cheerfully refunded.
MULTI-SLIDE INSTRUMENT 
CORPORATION
P.O.U0XS03S DEPT. I) CHICAGO. ILL.
o*Beil S laFrC laBDonl FCsel 
*>F V>*i >* >Fxlr rel
Foir-plici LOGARITHM TABLESIGNS and LIMITS if 
VALUE assumed b> trliiiimitrlc tuncilMs-Tabli if 
NATURAL TRIGONOMETRIC FUNCTIONSTable if 
TRIGONOMETRIC FORMULAE-Tifili if SLIDE RULE 
SETTINGSTibll If GENUAL EQUATIONSLi 
list If cirbm MATHEMATICAL FORMULAEDECI
MAL MjiiniiRU if I fritUii
and Afloat
The Bell System plans an extensive trial of two-way radio 
in providing telephone service to vehicles in a number 
of large cities.
Connections with other telephones will be made 
through the nearest of several receiving and transmitting 
stations operated by the telephone company. It is gener
ally similar to the existing ship-shore radio telephone 
service for vessels in coastal and inland waters.
The main job right now is making more telephones 
available for those who have been waiting for regular 
service. But as soon as the new equipment can be built 
the Bell System will begin extending telephone service 
to vehicles.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1945(Ufte (Tartiejie plaid
Tickets Now on Sale 
For Christmas Dance
Now that the date (December 25), 
place (Thistle Hall) and time (9 to 
12) for the annual Interfraternity 
Dance has been set, the next item to 
Evening Student Council Cnristmas 
Dance has been set, the next item 
to mention is the price. The small 
sum of $1.10 will get you and the 
girl friend into the affair. You cant 
help but have a good time for the 
committees that are in charge of 
this affair are making every effort 
to make it a really enjoyable one. 
Members of Evening Student Coun
cil and the following Evening 
School Fraternities: Phi Nu, Nu Sig
ma Alpha, and Sigma Delta Phi, 
now have tickets; and if perchance 
they dont get around to selling you 
a ticket, make sure you see them 
about purchasing one. This can be 
a real opportunity for you students 
who have wanted to meet and enjoy 
the fellowship of other evening stu
dents and their friends. Since this 
is an attempt bv the above-mention
ed groups to give you the opportun
ity to at least meet other students, 
it is up to each and every evening 
student to make sure that he will 
attend this dance. .
As mentioned in last weeks ar
ticle, the orchestra selected to play 
is Clyde Carrolls. This orchestra 
can play sweet and the more ener
getic type of music, commonly call
ed swing.
The only other thing to mention 
at this time is that the evening of 
December 22nd is not too far off so 
make sure you reserve this date for 
the dance and we promise you wont 
be sorry.
Plaid Staff Petitions Santa 
For Christmas Packages
Dear Santa,
It has been so long since I have 
written to you that I hardly know 
how to begin, but there are a few 
extra special things I would like 
leave in the stockings of my staff.
Bring Anne Shack a new mink 
coat, size 10, and a hat to match.
Frank Mihelich needs a new pipe, 
one that stays lighted. He has to 
light the one he has every other 
second.
Cecille Zellner wants a surprise 
package. She just loves to be sur
prised.
Fred Vichich would like a deer. 
He has been hunting one for weeks. 
But please, Santa, dont make a mis
take and leave the two-legged kind 
because that would make his wife 
unhappy. If you do err, be sure she 
is blonde and luscious.
Martha Borkovich wants someone 
who is 62 tall, with broad should
ers, and has blonde hair and blue 
eyes. No doubt, this someone will 
be too big to put in her stocking so 
you can place him under the tree.
If you can comply with my re
quest, I will appreciate it.
Hopefully yours,
Jlett&i ta the Qditan.
In our Letter to the Editor Col
umn of this week we are pleased 
to print more information about the 
Evening Student Council and its re
lation to the evening students and 
their activities.
Promoting social gatherings is a 
function of the Evening Student 
Council, and a great deal of success 
of the activities of the evening stu
dents depends upon full participa
tion in these functions.
A social calendar is projected in 
the closing days of the school year 
for the coming year. It is not always 
possible to see ahead how the dif
ferent functions will be supported, 
or how successful they will be. Thus 
it depends upon student cooperation 
and support to put the projects over.
While promoting these activities, 
the students are afforded the oppor
tunity of association one with an
other and in that way studies can 
become more than just routine 
work. To the workers on these dif
ferent affairs, additional opportunity 
is given to them of helping to pre
pare the hall where the function is 
to be held. Planning decoration and 
putting these decorations up is a 
great deal of fun for the workers. 
Participation in these activities 
gives the participant a splendid op
portunity of meeting with other 
workers and exchanging1 of ideas 
and plans.
As a reward for the students 
work, points are given for the indi
vidual function and all of these 
count towards earning a council in
signia at the end of the year. The 
evening students, therefore, are 
given consideration by the Evening 
Student Council and all the activi
ties are centered around the indi
vidual student.
Department of Drama
The next production of the De
partment of Drama will be given 
from December 10th to the 17th. It 
will be a comedy by John Van Druten and Lloyd Morris entitled The 
Damask Cheek. Talbot Pearson 
will direct the presentation and 
will have as its characters those stu
dents majoring in drama.
All you evening students should 
take advantage of seeing these pro
ductions by getting your tickets at 
Room 255-C, Industries Hall. All 
that you have to do is present your 
registration card for identification. 
So, come on now, and make sure 
that you dont pass up this grand 
opportunity of seeing this piece of 
work.
Changes For Final Exams 
And Registration Announced
As announced last week, the dates 
of the second semester registration 
will be Wednesday, January 30, and 
Thursday, January 31, instead of the 
one night originally scheduled, Jan
uary 30. Class will begin Friday, 
February 1, instead of January 31.
Final examinations will be from 
Tuesday, January 22 to Monday, 
January 28, inclusive, instead of 
January 23 to January 29.
Carnegies 1946 
Endowment Fund
In 1921 an offer was made by the 
Carnegie Corporation of New York 
whereby they would contribute $2 
for every $1 the school raised in 25 
years. The corporation will pay this 
amount to the limit of $8,000,000 
which means that the school must 
collect $4,000,000 in order to get the 
full amount of the endowment. The 
date on which the offer will expire 
is July 1, 1946, and the current 
amount in the fund is $3,339,155.87.
The evening students have taken 
an active part in promoting this 
fund. In the fall of this year, the 
Evening Student Council gave $50 
to the Endowment Fund. This 
money was the balance of the Even
ing Student Council fund which is 
made up of the activity fee which 
every student pays at registration. 
Two of the most prominent means of 
soliciting money to aid the cam
paign were the breakage deposit 
and the locker key refund several 
years ago.
The establishment of this fund 
should be made known to those in
terested in Tech as a thriving insti
tution so that it may be recognized 
that plans are being made for the fu
ture.
9nten4rieuu*ui
Our spotlight tonight shines on a 
Wilkinsburg veteran of World War
II, Ex-sergeant Harry W. Oustin. He 
is 5 feet 11 inches tall, has blue 
eyes, brown hair, and weighs 134 
pounds.
When asked to comment on any 
humorous incident that happen 
while serving overseas, he related 
a never-to-be-forgotten-night during 
an air raid in Sicily. He and his bud
dies lay still in their trenches 
while heavy enemy fire was blasting 
overhead; suddenly there came a 
dead silence for a split second. In 
the moonlight there appeared a 
shadow of a man in front of Harry, 
asking him in all sincerity, and we 
quote, Would you like to buy a 
gold watch, guaranteed for ten 
years. As Harry gave his reply, it 
was drowned out by heavy artillery 
which was again in full swing; and 
probably all for the best.
Harry is employed by the Mine 
Safety Appliance Co., as a Drafts
man, and is attending his fourth 
year at Tech, specializing in the field 
of Mechanical Engineering.
Being a civilian again, he finds 
eating stuffed pork chops, drinking 
and sleeping his favorite pastime. 
Harry likes to play softball and 
football, but his main interest is in 
radio for he was a Chief Radio Op
erator in the Army.
Harry very politely submitted to 
our questioning, and we appreciate 
his cooperation. Thanks a lot, Harry.
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
HA. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
Another future student for Car
negie Tech arrived at Columbia 
Hospital this past week. Papa Hairy 
Retteger of the College of Engineer
ing says he doesnt know what to 
call herperhaps Louise. At any 
ratecongratulations, Harry!
Last week one of our evening stu
dents took a hunting trip up. into 
the mountains looking for a deer. 
He still claims it was because of the 
poor light in the thick snowclad 
pines that he inadverently shot a 
jackass. The clincher came when, 
upon telling of this accident/ his 
chum innocently asked if it happen
ed while he was cleaning his gun or 
while he was climbing over a fence.- 
Missing Persons Bureau almost 
received an urgent call last week. 
The reported disappearance of Mar
tha Borkovich and Ann Shack was 
finally cleared when theywere 
found playing ping pong in the base-, 
ment of the Carnegie Union. ~
How about our evening students 
choosing a Queen of Eve. School 
from among all our attractive fe
male students. The problem of tact
fully selecting her would make a 
very good subject for some of those 
psychology classes.
Missing from school this year 
the wit of Harold E. Park who al
ways had a new one to tell in his 
inimitable way.
Speaking of treats, we had one on 
Frank tonight. One . . . Life Saver! 
Not to be outdone, Fred, our erst
while colleague also offered to treat, 
but then who would care to go that 
far for even a soda.
Gosh, what they cant find to ar
gue about here in the Plaid Office; 
now its the pronunciation of dra
ma. Is it draama or drahma? 
Now that the shouting is subdued 
and instead we hear pleasant goodnights, we feel satisfied that an
other copy of the Plaid is ready for 
the press, so now that our work is 
done, we once again disappear be
hind the old Eight Ball.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Ruth McGraw
New* Editor
Frank Mihelich
Associate Editor*
Virginia Ehni, Betty Ashcraft
Page edited by Evening School Students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or 
opinions expressed in editorial column are not 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School Staff.
StaffOlive Baumgardner 
Martha Borkovich 
Betty Hopkins 
Florence Kelly 
Mary Kolson 
Irene Koerner 
Emma Jean Lewis Nancy E. Lewis 
Joy A. Ridgeway
Arlene McMurray 
Edw. E. McDonald 
Ann Rawlingg 
Joseph M. Rymar 
Anne Sheck 
Dorothy Shield* 
Fred L. Vichich 
Cecille Zellner 
Jack GrifRq
