t>UbU5HEMEEKLTOTUDEI1T5OfTHEaM-TKTIM(l1LSM
VOLUME VOCTOBER 26, 1910NUMBER 6
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
* EVERY TECHNICAL MAN *4- 4*
will find the following papers of interest and  
& value in his work. ' &*
 They will keep you posted on the latest de& velopments in your chosen profession. They &
* will tell you what the leading engineers in your 4. 
^ line are doing. They will also keep you in4j formed of the openings in your profession
4 of opportunities for advancement throughout * 
 the field. %
* ELECTRICAL WORLDWeekly$3.00 a Year. *
* The foremost electrical journal of the 4*
* world. Covers the entire electrical art and *
4j industry. *
4- ENGINEERING RECORDWeekly$3 a Year. * 
  Devoted to civil engineering and allied suby
jects. Covers municipal engineering, indus*
* trial. engineering, railway, civil engineering, 4*
* bridge anu structural engineering, power *
^ plants, public works, etc. jg
5 ELECTRICAL RAILWAY JOURNALWeekly '
4. 1$3.00 a Year. ^
 The accepted authority in all branches of ^
4*electric railway engineering.4**
i Write for Special Student Rates&Sample Copies %
4* McGRAW PUBLISHING COMPANY $
* 239 West 39th Street - - - New York *
* 4.
* G-ZEO. THE IT OIF5 IE3 <3c CO. J
4. Drawing Instruments and Material ^
& Students Note Books and a large assortment of 
4 Loose Leaf Binders. Repairing, Artistss Ma4.
4. terials *
 STATIONERYENGRAVINGEMBOSSING J
^ 704 Smithfield Street Pittsburgh, Pa. 4-
uxoxo.xQXQXoxox0S0xaxosas0xoxoxoxQX<>^ 
g THE SCHENLEY FARMS g
$ The Garden Spot of Pittsburgh ^
^ The place to live for convenience, pleasure and $ 
g profit. 
4-4**???**5*4-
Bell Phone
ARNNAA 53Pi tN3isTH buE
533 Pittsburg Life Building 
liberty Ave. and Sixth St., Pittsburg, Pa.
We have for rental Full Dress Suits, Tuxedos. Prince Alberts, White Vests, Opera Hats.
*4**f44*f4*
M acDonalds
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice CreamFancy BoxesBaskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
552O5CSOSSSO5;3CS;3}K^3SSO5S~O5iSO5SSO5iS0Si~^
I Oswald Werner & Sons Co. 1
(((Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest 5?
Dyeing and Cleaning Works Hijr ^
For specials occasions when you want the best try Du4*vquesne, the coffee of quality; one cartons, 30c lb.
GEO. K. STEVENSON CO.
Sixth Avenue opp. Trinity Church 
Highland and Center Avenues, East End
ci**i9siM$9S*el89MI*aSeoi>0ie*f9c*a*ai*$9*S*a'*3*lM{9oia,i8tS*afBISMi**$rti*s**$**$**i>*S*0i*8i*
4 yif See us for your Class, School, Club and Fra4,
* 4** 4**
ternity Pins 
HEEREN BROS. & CO. 
Penn Avenue and Eighth Street? - 4.4 We make and sell the Official Tech Pins &* 4. 
^4,\4*S4,\4,%4\4*\4,\4,\4\4,^4\4\4*\4*^4,\4,\4,\4*
* *
JDc "Sr"u. Know
that we print more books than any firmin the East End ?.......................................
2D on EEaa.O'Wthat our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaflets elicit the admiration of lovers of FinePrinting ? .......................................................
X5o TTo-u. Know
that we are prompt, and that an order for a dollar receives as much care and attention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to . 
SPAHE fc 14ITSCHEE,
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street 
Mu. H. J. 4153BelPh Mgr., Tartan, is our representative at Tech.
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
Q.%vxv%a\'MO\o%\*%vxoxo%o%o%a%Tjxo%o\ 
XXXXXX %W%XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXSXXXXXXt OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET %
S Dealers in J BUTTER, EGGS, POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA. COFFEE $ < AND CANNED GOODS f,a 3714 FORBES STREET 55 Bell Phone 710 Schenley S
%4*\4-\4\4*\4*\4*\4-VI-\4'\4-\4-V*'\4-\4*\4*\4**4-\4' v jS Quality the Best Prices Moderate 4.
* Bellfield Restaurant and Lunch Room 
yj Corner Craig and Forbes Streets
* PITTSBURGH, PA. *
4. SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS * AM-M-M-M-M-T-M-K-M-T-K-M-K-M-M-M-M-TMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMKMMMMMMMMMMMM MKMMMM 
KURTZ, LANQBEIN & SWARTZ |
Q Are now iu their new building, 535 Wood S treet I(l
& Stationery, Engraving, Artists Materials *
0 Draughtmens and Engineers Supplies

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. V(Hu' (Tnrtnu
PITTSBURGH, PA., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1910No. 6
CARNEGIE WINS HARD FOUGHT STRUGGLE FROM GENEVA
Carnegie Techs foot-ball team won its first victory 
this season when they defeated Geneva last Satur
day by the score of 50. The weather was ideal 
for the game, being cold enough to make overcoats 
and sweaters comfortable. The field was slightly 
wet and, although it was muddy in spots, the teams 
pulled off some very speedy work.
Fumbling was rather frequent, due to the cold 
and to the dampness of the ball. However, the play 
was fast thi-oughout the whole game. Both teams 
were fighting hard at all times and the game 
abounded in spectacular plays. Techs defensive 
work was the best that has been seen this year. 
Every man was in the play, striving to smash up 
the interference and down the runner. Geneva also 
tackled well. Techs interference, while not so com
pact as that of the Covenanters, was good enough to 
allow the runner to make many short gains, and, as 
a result, the ball was in Genevas territory most of 
the time.
Tech relied greatly upon open playing. Many for* 
ward passes were made and the majority of them 
were well executed. Techs only touchdown was 
made after McCorkle had carried the ball to the
3-yard line by means of this play. The short pass 
was particularly in evidence, many gains of 4 and 5 
yards being made in this manner. The most suc
cessful of the plays directed at the line was the 
quarterback plunge through center. This seldom 
failed to gain at least 5 yards. Genevas best play 
was a criss-cross ending in a forward pass to Car
roll. The Covenanters also ran their captain and 
tackle, D. Stewart, very frequently.
The all-round work of Carroll and the rushing of 
D. Stewart stood out as Genevas best offering. For
Tech, Hull, Hatcher, McCorkle and Blanchard car
ried the ball well, while the tackling of Taylor, 
Dyer and Engstrom was especially brilliant. Dur
ing the intermission the students marched around 
the field, and after forming a huge C, gave round 
after round of cheers, much to the delight of the 
rest of the audience.
The main point in evidence in Techs work was 
the way in which the team has improved. They 
fought hard throughout the game and used good 
judgment at all times. The fact that trick plays 
are absolutely a necessity this year was again 
brought home, most of our gains being made through 
this type of play.
The game in detail:
Hatcher won the toss and selected the west end 
of the field. This gave Tech advantage of having the 
wind at their back. Geneva kicked off to Scott on 
the 40-yard line, and he rushed it back 12 yards. 
Newbrand failed to gain at left tackle. Taylor then 
tried a forward pass, but the ball hit the ground before a Tech man could reach it. This made it third 
down with the ball on Techs 45-yard line. Hull then 
punted over Wilsons head to the 30-yard line from 
whence the ball rolled over the goal line. Dyer, by a 
sensational sprint, passed the Geneva back and fell 
upon the ball. However, since the ball had not been 
touched before it rolled over the line, the officials 
ruled that it was not a touchdown but a touch back. 
Gevena elected to put the ball in play on the 25-yard 
line. The teams lined up, and Metheney gained 5 
yards around Weaver. Then Campbell carried the 
ball on a wide end run to the 36-yard line. Metheney 
made 4 yards through tackle and Carroll rounded Mc
Corkle for 20 yards but the ball was brought back

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
and D. Stewart penalized 5 yards for offside play.
J. Stewart then kicked to Hull on Techs 50-yard line. 
He ran it back to the center of the field. Newbrand 
made 6 yards in two tries at the line and Hull punted 
to Wilson on Genevas 20-yard line. On the next 
play, Geneva fumbled and Eugstrom fell upon it on 
the 18-yard line. Blanchard failed to gain around 
Carroll and Taylor could only gain a yard around 
Steward. Hull then tried a drop kick from the 30- 
yard line but it fell short and Dodds recovered it on 
his 10-yard line. Campbell gained 4 yards around the 
other end but the referee saw some one offside and 
penalized Geneva 5 yards. J. Stewart punted to' 
Hull on the 30-yard line, but the ball was brought 
back and Tech penalized 10 yards for interfering with 
an end. Dodds and McElroy tried three times to 
gain the necessary distance and failed by only half 
a yard. This gave the ball to Tech on the 20-yard 
line. Taylor slipped between D. Stewart and Camp
bell for 4 yards, and Newbrand rounded the other 
tackle for 5 yards. Blanchard them squeezed through 
the center to the 8 yard line. On the next play 
Tech was fouled for holding and Butler plao^d the 
ball at the 23-yard line. McCorkle could not reach 
Blanchards forward pass and Geneva took the ball on 
her 14-yard line. Eugstrom nailed J. Stewart on the 
10-yard line and on the next play stopped D. Stewart  
for the loss of a yard. Geneva then kicked to the 27- 
yard line, where Dyer fell upon the ball. Taylor 
gained a yard at end and Blanchard caught a short 
forward pass on the 22-yard line. This ended the 
first quarter.
The second quarter began with the ball in Techs 
possession with third down and 7 yards to gain. 
Blanchard made a beautiful forward pass to Mc
Corkle, who ran to the 3-yard line before being 
tackled. On the next play Hull went over the goal 
line via the left tackle hole but dropped the ball. 
Moorhead fell upon it and thus gained the honor 
of making the touchdown. Hull missed goal. Score, 
Carnegie Tech 5, Geneva 0.
S. Stewart kicked off to Blanchard on the 25-yard 
line. He advanced the ball 5 yards before being 
downed. Hull then punted to the quarter back at the 
center of the field. Dyer nailed him before he had 
taken three steps. Geneva then worked a criss cross 
play which ended in a forward pass to Carroll. He 
carried the ball to Techs 14-yard line, making 
Genevas largest individual gain. Dodds not only 
failed to gain at end but was penalized 15 yards for 
crawling with the ball. They then attempted to 
work the criss cross play again but were unsuccesssful in their endeavor. S. Stewart fell back for 
an attempt at a field goal but the ball was blocked. 
After a mad scramble Carroll fell upon it on Techs 
30-yard line.- D. Stewart made 2 yards at end and 
Metheney skirted tackle for 9 yards. This made it 
first down on the 19-yard line. When the next play 
started, D. Stewart was discovered offside and was 
penalized 5 yards. Dodds could only gain 4 yards, 
and the drop kick was tried again. This time it 
passed over the line wide of the posts and Tech 
elected to put it in play on the 25-yard line.
Blanchard went through the line for 7 yards and 
Hall kicked to the center of the field. Stewart 
ran it back 5 yards. Dodds lost 5 yards but D. 
Stewart carried it to Techs 43-yard line. The full 
back tried another drop, but Engstrom blocked the 
kick and recovered the ball on Genevas 45-yard line. 
Dyer caught a short forward pass but was stopped for 
no gain. Hull then punted to Genevas 21-yard line, 
Blanchard getting the tackle. McElroy gained 6 yards 
at tackle, but on the next play, Geneva was penalized 
15 yards for interference. Stewart punted to Hull 
and he carried it to the 20-yard line. However, the 
officials said that a Geneva man had been interfered 
with and the ball was taken back to the 45-yard line. 
A forward pass was intercepted by Dodds and Geneva 
received the ball on the 40-yard mark. J. Stewart 
could only gain a yard at center but D. Stewart car
ried it to the center of the field on the next play. 
Dodds gained 2 yards at tackle and the half was up.
Geneva kicked off to Dyer on the 10-yard line. He 
ran it back 24 yards. Blanchard made a dive through 
guard that netted him 9 yards. Taylor kicked to 
Genevas 45-yard line but the ball was brought back 
because he was not 5 yards behind the line of 
scrimmage. Hull then tried a forward pass but Me
theney intercepted it on Techs 50-yard line. He ran 
it back 6 yards. Metheney made a yard at tackle but 
Taylor stopped the next play for a 10-yard loss. J. 
Stewart punted to Hull on the 20-yard line and he 
ran it back 11 yards. Taylor lost 3 yards and a 
forward pass failed, giving the ball to Geneva on 
Techs 26-yard line. Carroll and J. Stewart lost 10 
yards and Geneva was penalized 15 yards for hold
ing. Taylor then intercepted a forward pass, and 
carried the ball to Techs 50-yard line. The next play 
ended disastrously, as Carroll caught a forward pass 
on the 50-yard line. D. Stewart carried the ball 
through the tackle to the 41-yard line, but fumbled 
when tackled ^nd Hull fell upon the ball. Tech was 
penalized to the 26-yard line for holding during their 
first play and Hull kicked out of bounds on Techs 
45-yard line.
Dodds made 4 yards at end and Metheney carried it 
through the line to the 35-yard line. J. Stewart made
6 yards through the same hole. Here Hull was hurt 
and had to leave the game. Hatcher going in at full
back. Metheney made the 25-yard line and first down 
around tackle. Genevas line was a trifle off side 
during the next play, and the ball was taken back 5 
yards. D. Stewart gained 6 yards at end, but Me
theney could only make 1 yard at tackle and the 
ball went to Tech on the 23-yard line. McCorkle 
gained 7 yards on an end run but on the next play 
the ball went back to the 25-yard line for offside 
play. Hatcher then punted to Genevas 51-yard line. 
The teams were just lining up when time was called.
At the start of the third quarter J. Stewart gained
2 yards at end but D. Stewart lost 3 yards. The full
back then bunted to Blanchard on Techs 25-yard line. 
He ran it back 11 yards. Hatcher made four yards 
at left end and on the next play made a forward pass 
to McCorkle who got to Genevas 49-yard line before 
being downed. Blanchard gained 4 yards more on

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
another forward pass. Red went around right end 
to the 31-yard line but Taylor hit a stone wall at 
center and could gain nothing. Another line bud: 
made only a yard and Geneva took the ball on her
26-yard line. Dodds advanced the ball 3 yards around 
right end, and J. Stewart gained 2 more at left tackle.
D. Stewart then made first down through the line: go
ing to the 37-yard line. J. Stewart gained 4 yards at 
guard but D. Stewart found the same hole closed. On 
this play Dyer was slightly injured and Kesselman 
took his place. J. Stewart punted to his 52-yard line, 
where Blanchard was downed before he could gain. 
Gilkinson was then sent in for Scott. Blanchard got 
to Genevas 47-yard line on a forward pass from 
Taylor. Then the referee discovered that Gilkin
son had not reported to him, and so penalized Tech 
15 yards. Blanchard kicked Genevas 30-yard line. 
Metheney lost a yard at end but Dodds recovered it 
and 5 more through tackle. J. Stewart then punted
to his 45-yard line, where Carroll fell upon it. J.
Stewart made 8 yards at end but on the next play, 
Taylor nailed the same man at the other end for a
5-yard loss. Dodds couVI not gain at the other end. 
The whistle then blew and the game was over. Lineup: 
Carnegie Tech. Geneva.
McCorkle .........................L. E........................... Campbell
Roessner ............................L. T....................... D. Stewart
Scott-Gilkinson .............L. G.............................. Mitchell
Engstrom .............................C................................... Barber
Moorhead ...........................R. G...................... McCormick
Weaver ..............................R. T......................... McElroy
Dyer-Kesselman ...........R. E................................ Carroll
Blanchard ............................Q................................... Wilson
Taylor ............................L. H.......................... Metheney
Newbrand .......................R.H.................................... Dodds
Hall-Hatcher .....................F........................... J. Stewart
TouchdownMoorhead. Missed goalHull. Ref
ereeButler, Allegheny High. UmpireMcFarland, 
W. & J. Head LinesmanReed.
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE ATHLETIC ASSO
CIATION OF THE CARNEGIE TECH
NICAL SCHOOLS.
[NoteThe Constitution appears below as it now 
stands, revised and corrected. The by-laws will 
be ready for publication in the near future.Ed.] 
ARTICLE I.
Name.
Section 1The name of this organization shall be 
The Athletic Association of the Carnegie Technical 
Schools.
ARTICLE II.
Membership.
Section 1The membership of this organization 
shall be of two kinds, active and associate. Active 
membership shall be open to any student of the 
aforesaid schools having paid the required athletic 
fee. Associate membership shall be open to all 
former members of this Association. Only active 
members shall be entitled to vote in general elec
tions except as provided for hereinafter..
ARTICLE III.
Control of Athletics.
Section 1The control of athletics in so far as the 
following are concerned shall be vested in a Board 
of Control:
(1) Amendments to Constitution.
(2) Election of President, vice president, and sec
retary of the association, and managers and assist
ant managers of the Varsity Athletic teams.
(3) Awarding of insignia.
Board of Control.
Sec. 2The Board of Control shall consist of one 
representative from each of the following classes: 
Senior, Junior, Sophohiore and Plebe classes of the 
Day School of Applied Science; Fifth, Fourth, Third, 
Second, and First year classes of the Night School 
of Applied Science; Senior, Junior, Sophomore and 
Plebe classes of the Day School of Applied Design; 
Fourth, Third, Second and First year classes of the 
Night School of Applied Design; Third. Second and 
First year classes of the Day School of Applied In
dustries; A, B, C, and D classes of the Night School 
of Applied Industries and one member of the Alumni 
Association.
Election of Members of Board of Control.
Sec. 3The student members of the Board of Con
trol shall be elected by their respective classes be
tween the beginning of their school year and the 
meeting of the Board of Control held the first Wed
nesday in December at which time the aforesaid 
electeu members shall take their places on the 
Board. The Alumni member shall be chosen by the 
combined alumni associations of the schools. Each 
member, except those of the graduating classes, 
shall serve for ,a period of one year.
ARTICLE IV.
Officers of Athletic Association.
Section 1The officers of the Athletic Association 
shah consist of the President, Vice President, Sec
retary and Treasurer. These officers, excepting the 
Treasurer, shall be elected by the Board of Control 
and shall hold the same respective offices on the 
said Board. The Treasurer of Athletic Association 
and Board of Control shall be elected by the Execu
tive Committee and shall serve a term of one year.
Sec. 2It shall be the duty of the President to 
preside at all meetings of the Board of Control and 
general meetings of the Association, and to issue 
calls for meetings of Board of Control upon written 
request of five members ctf the Board, or at such 
times when he deems a meeting necessary. He 
shall be a member ex-officio of all committees.
Sec. 3In the absence of the President his duties 
shall be performed by the Vice-President.
Sec. 4It shall be the duties of the Secretary to 
keep a record of the proceedings of each meeting of 
the Association and Board of Control and such other 
duties as pertain to the Secretary of an organization 
excepting such as fall to the Treasurer. He shall 
also have the custody of all books, reports and records.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
Sec. 5The duties of the Treasurer shall be to 
keep an account of all receipts and expenditures of 
the Association. He shall render an account of the 
financial condition of the Association at the request 
of the Executive Committee or the Supervisor of 
Athletics. He need not be a member of the Board 
of Control before election.
Time of Election of Officers.
Section 6All the aforesaid officers, except the 
Treasurer, shall be elected by the Board of Control 
on the first Wednesday in December and shall as
sume their duties at once. The Treasurer shall be 
elected by the Executive Committee not later than 
December 21st, and he shall assume his duties on 
January 1st.
ARTICLE V.
Supervisor of Athletics.
Section 1The Supervisor of Athletics shall be 
appointed and paid by the Carnegie Technical 
Schools.
Duties of the Supervisor of Athletics.
Sec. 2The Supervisor of Athletics shall be a 
member of the Executive Committee. He shall ap
prove all schedules of Varsity Athletic teams, all 
penditures of Athletic Association funds, and all 
contracts involving any liability on the said Asso
ciation.
ARTICLE VI.
Executive Committee.
Section 1There shall be an Executive Committee 
consisting of the Supervisor of Athletics, President, 
Secretary, and Treasurer of the Athletic Association, 
and the managers of the Varsity foot ball, base ball 
and track teams.
Duties of the Executive Committee.
Sec. 2The Executive Committee shall transact 
all business of the Athletic Association except such 
business as is provided for in Article III, Section 1, 
and such business as is hereinafter provided for.
* ARTICLE VII.
Meetings of the Board of Control.
Section 1The meetings of the Board of Control 
shall be held at the call of the President. A quorum 
shall consist of a majority of the elected members 
of the Board.
Order of Business for the Board of Control.
Sec. 2The order of business for the Board of 
Control shall be as follows:
1. Roll call.
2. Reading of minutes of the preceding meet
ing.
3. Reports of committees.
4. Unfinished business.
5. New business.
6. Adjournment.
ARTICLE VIII.
Auditing Committee.
Section 1There shall be an auditing Comnlittee 
of three members of the Board of Control appointed 
by the President. This committee shall audit the 
books of the Treasurer during December and June 
and make a report of the condition of the same at
the first meeting of the Board after the audit has 
been made. This report shall be published in two 
successive numbers of The Tartan and posted on the 
bulletin boards of each School.
ARTICLE IX.
Election of Managers.
Section 1The managers of all teams shall be 
elected by the Board of Control, within one week of 
the last game scheduled in the season of the sport 
for which the manager is to be elected.
Assistant Managers.
Sec. 2There shall be one first assistant manager 
of each Varsity Athletic team. There shall be three 
second assistant managers of the Football, Baseball, 
and Track teams. These second assistant managers 
shall be elected one from each of the following 
schools; Applied Science, Applied Design, and Ap
plied Industries.
Election of Assistant Managers.
Sec. 3The first assistant manager shall be elected 
by the Board of Control not later than one month 
before the first game or meet of the team for which 
he is a candidate.
The second assistant manager shall be elected by 
the respective schools not later than one month be
fore the first game or meet of the team for which 
they are candidates.
ARTICLE X.
Election of Captains.
Section 1The election of Captain for Varsity 
teams for the succeeding season shall take place not 
less than one week after the close of the preceding 
season. Only members of the team having earned 
their C under conditions stated in Article IX, are 
qualified to vote in this election.
ARTICLE XI. 
AWARDING OF INSIGNIA.
Foot Ball.
Section 1To each member of the Varsity Foot 
Ball team who plays not less than one full half in 
one half the number of games scheduled for the 
season, or two full halves in any two games and the 
final game, a C shall be awarded by the Board of 
Control.
Base Ball.
Sec. 2To each member of the Varsity Base Ball 
team who plays two-thirds the number of games 
played during the season, and to each pitcher play
ing one-third the number of games played during the 
season, a C shall be awarded by the Board of Con
trol. Four and one-half innings shall constitute a 
game.
T rack.
Sec. 3To each member of the Varsity team who 
makes first place in a collegiate dual meet or any 
place in an inter-collegiate meet, a C shall be 
awarded by the Board of Control.
Basket Ball.
Sec. 4To each member of a Varsity team who 
plays two-thirds of the number of games scheduled 
during a season a letter shall be awarded by the 
Board of Control.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
Hockey.
Sec. 5To each member of a Varsity Hockey 
team who plays two-thirds the number of games 
played during a season, providing at least five games 
are played, a letter shall be awarded.
Insignia of Managers.
Sec. 6Managers shall be awarded the letter of 
their respective teams and shall have a bar of the 
Plaid beneath.
Variety of Insignia.
Sec. 7The Foot Ball, Track, and Base Ball teams 
shall be given the regulation six-inch C and 
the Basket Ball and Hockey teams shall be given the 
regulation six-inch block C, but they shall also 
have the B. B. and H. T. respectively in addition, 
except when having won an intercollegiate cham
pionship, in which case the C alone shall be 
awarded.
Color Sweaters.
Sec. 8All sweaters and letters awarded shall 
conform to the following colors for each team:
Foot BallWhite sweater with plaid letter.
Base BallBlue sweater with plaid letter.
TrackGray sweater with plaid letter.
HockeyMaroon sweater with plaid letters.
Basket BallGray with blue trimmings and plaid 
letters.
ARTICLE XII.
Class Insignia.
Section 1Plaid numerals and nothing else may 
be worn by members of class teams, but must not 
exceed three and one-half inches in height.
ARTICLE XIII.
Appeal.
Section 1The Executive Committee may be over
ruled by a three-fourths vote of the total number of 
elected members of the Board of Control. The 
Board of Control may be overruled by a three* 
fourths vote of the active members of the Athletic 
Association.
ARTICLE XIV.
Amendment of Constitution.
Section 1This Constitution may be amended by 
a two-third vote of the Board of Control.
THE GYMNASIUM OPENED.
One of the prettiest and most interesting functions 
ever held at Carnegie occurred last Saturday at 1.00 
oclock P. M., when Director and Mrs. Hamerschlag 
held an informal reception in Techs new athletic 
field house. The occasion marked the opening of 
the new gymnasium and was delightful in its ap
pointments. The Director and Mrs. Hamerschlag 
stood at the head of the receiving line and shook 
hands with the hundreds of students, alumni and 
faculty members who came to assist in the celebra
tion.
The gym was decorated with pennants and a pro
fusion of foliage. The great Carnegie banner hung 
in stately splendor from the rafters. The bevy of 
beautiful Margaret Morrison girls, who assisted in
the function, presented an altogether charming touch 
to the scene.
At 2.00 oclock the Tech band struck up and 
for the best part of an hour the men and fair ladies 
surrendered themselves to the witchery of the se
ductive waltz and stirring two-step. Refreshments 
were served in buffet style during the afternoon. At 
2.45, Director Hamerschlag addressed the assem
bled throng. With simple directness and much feel
ing he congratulated the students upon having such 
a fine building at their disposal and voiced his 
wishes for their continued success. The Director 
then gave over the magnificent Hamerschlag trophy 
into the hands of President McCorkle, of the Senior 
Class Applied Science, explaining the meaning and 
conditions surrounding the prize. The trophy is 
placed in the keeping of the School winning the an
nual inter-schools meet and becomes the permanent 
possession, at the end of five years, of the School 
having won the greatest number of meets in thattime. The trophy is a gift of friends outside of the 
Carnegie faculty. Mr. McCorkle made an appro
priate speech of thanks. At 3.00 oclock the 
reception came to an end in order to allow those 
present to attend the foot-ball game between Tech 
and Geneva.
THE TENNIS TOURNAMENT.
During the past week the tennis tournament has 
progressed rapidly. The first three rounds have 
been almost completed, and it will be only a short 
time until the tournament has passed into history. 
The results are as follows:
First round
Duff won from Schuckman, 62, 61. 
i.iiller won from Sweeney, 64, 63.
Woods won from Kiefer, 60, 60.
Kincaid won from Mandeville, 63, 64.
Letsche won from Tilton, 60, 75.
Clements won from Botsford, 62, 62.
Tea won from Scott, 1012, 63, 64.
Flood won from Heisel, 61, 75.
Martin defaulted to Beeken.
Douthett won from Paffenbach, 62, 62.
Savage won from Keally, 75, 64.
Second round
Woods won from Miller, 63, 64.
Kincaid won from Letsche, 62, 75.
Flood won from Tea, 61, 75.
Douthett won from Savage.
Third round ,
Kincaid won from Clements, 62, 61.
Woods won from Duff, 62, 63.
Flood won from Beeken, 62, 108.
Christopher Royce, a phenomenal youth who was 
said to have the most perfectly trained mind in 
America, and who entered Harvard at the age of 
fourteen, died the other day in an insane asylum, 
the victim of over-study.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
XH bZ XARXAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of Carnegie Technical School, Pitts
burgh, Pennsylvania
EDITORIAL BOARD.
James K. Lamoree, 12............Editor-in-Chief
Donald D. Mitchell, 12..........Associate Editor
John H. Clements, 13...............Atheltic Editor
Helen M. Baglin, 11, M. M. C. S., Assoc. Editor 
Florence A. Flinn, 11, M.M.C.S., Assist Editor 
Horace P. Smith, 13.................Assistant Editor
H. J. McCorkle.........................Business Manager
C. C. Hixenbaugh...............Advertising Manager
Subscription Rates
Yearly ..................................................................$2.00
Single Copy....................................................10 Cents
Student Rates
Yearly .....................................................................$1.00
Single Copy.......................................................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools
EDITORIAL.
On to Washington!
In the days of old, King Xerxes decided to invade 
Greece. For many, many months he prepared. He 
gathered together immense stores of provisions and 
weapons. He called upon all the people throughout 
his vast domains to come with him. They came. 
The mighty King marched forth in royal triumph 
leading an irresistible army numbering millions. 
His men responded to the call.
Next Saturday King Hatcher and his little band 
of fighters journey to Washington. The call for 
men has gone forth throughout the Land of Skibo. 
An army of rooters is needed. Now is the time for 
every true Carnegie man to show his real spiritto 
show that he is a real booster. The King has gath
ered together weapons and implements of warfare 
in the form of new plays, better trained men and an 
unbreakable spirit of confidence. He needs an 
army to back him and the team. Will you respond 
to the call?
Last Saturdays decisive victory over Geneva 
proved beyond a doubt our team has pluck, speed 
and endurance. They are improving wonderfully. 
Out of a bunch of untrained, green men, a foot-ball 
machine of sterling worth is emerging. It is up to 
every Techite to show the men on the team and the 
men who are running the team, that the sacrifices 
and efforts they are making are not being made in 
vain. Now is the time to show our appreciation.
Manager Scott has made arrangements for a
special train to Washington next Saturday. 
The fare and admission to the game 
have been made as low as possible and is 
easily within the reach of every student. Sons of 
Carnegie Tech, arise! The time has come for ac
tion. We are needed and must not be found want
ing. Let us turn out in thundering force and show 
the Washingtonians just what real Carnegie spirit 
means. Learn those songs and sing them until they 
make the welkin ring. Get those yells down to an 
absolute science. Get out your horns and pennants. 
Let nothing stand between us and victory! The 
prize is ours if we go after it! March forth deter
mined to win. Raise your voices in the battle cry: 
On to Washington! On to Washington!!
ELIGIBILITY.
Two faculty committees have been appointed by 
Director Hamerschlag to draw up rules of eligibility 
for the Carnegie Technical Schools. One committee 
under the chairmanship of W. F. Fields will take 
care of the student organizations end of the ques
tion while the other committee under the head of 
Dr. Watson L. Savage will look after the Athletics 
side. The committees will report on Nov. 1st, 1910.
ATHLETIC SMOKER.
The smoker held in the new gym last Saturday 
evening proved a great success. The affair was 
arranged to help support the foot-ball training-table 
and the boosters came out in large numbers. Dur
ing the evening the Glee and Mandolin Club ren
dered several selections which were greatly appre
ciated by the fellows, while the Tech band inter
spersed a program of stirring music which would 
have done credit to Sousas own.
Mr. McDowell, director of the Glee Club, found a 
permanent place in the hearts of Tech men by the 
way in which he led the entire assemblage through 
the new songs which are being practiced for the 
W. <fc J. game. His inclination to get in and be one 
of the fellows, won the admiration of all. In the 
course of the evening smokes were passed while an 
abundance of lemonade and cider were on hand for 
the thirsty ones. Speeches were made by Dr. Sav
age, Manager Button, of the Glee Club, and Mr. 
Hecker. All of the speakers were greeted with 
much applause. Toward the end of the evening 
cheer practice was held under the direction of Cheer 
Leader Hecker.
From every standpoint the smoker was a success 
and the men who had it in charge deserve great 
credit for the manner in which the affair was con
ducted.
SheWouldnt it be fine if we women had pock
ets at the top of our hose?
HeThat would be a pretty come-offwomen 
going down the street with their hands in their 
pockets,Vanderbilt Hustler,

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANa
BOARD OF CONTROL MEETS.
The Board of Control of the Athletic Association 
held its first meeting of the year at 8 oclock Wed
nesday evening, October 19th, The meeting was 
called to order by President Schmidt. Matters of 
importance were discussed and passed upon. Man
ager Keally presented the names of men on last 
springs team eligible for the base-bail C. The 
Board granted the following men the letter:
Mason
Beisgen
Gearhart
Moorhead
Blanchard
Coldren
Vail
Vatz
Wehr
Keally (Manager)
The report of former Treasurer Charles was read 
and after brief discussion was accepted by the 
Board.
Following this three managers were elected to 
look after Varsity teams for this year:
Base-ball ManagerGuy Hecker.
Track ManagerH. J. McCorkle.
Basket-ball ManagerW. G. Blanchard.
Mr. P. W. Schmidt then tendered his resignation 
of the presidency of the Board. Owing to the fact 
that Mr. Schmidt has advanced a year ahead of his 
class, he is no longer a member of the class which 
elected him to the Board. Hence his action. The 
members of the Board of Control keenly regret the 
loss of Mr. Schmidt. He very ably accepted the 
many responsibilities placed upon him and did nota
ble work, especially in the task of drafting the new 
constitution.
Mr. F. X. Keally was elected president to finish 
the term which expires the first Wednesday in De
cember, when the new Board goes into office.
The entire proceedings of the evening were char
acterized by a spirit of lethargy, most of the busi
ness being carried on in a perfunctory manner. The 
meeting was adjourned at 10 P. M.
SIGMA TAU SMOKER.
Sigma Tau gave a smoker to its friends last Thurs
day evening at its home at 5141 Woodlawn avenue.
There were enough real musicians present to make 
up a real orchestra. Besides playing 500 and 
smoking, singing was the feature of the evening. The 
latest songs and a few classics were rendered. But 
the real stuff was the rendering of Ei du schome 
Shnitzel Bank by the German Thorough-breds, 
Buente Ganszer, Siegle and Gilg.
Refreshments were served at 10:30.
Ward Beecher of Youngstown dropped into Sigma 
Tau for the night last Wednesday.
fn!f3M3I3MSM2I3IBJ3l3M3J5IEISMSfSMSE3I5J3J5I3MM5I3I3J5I3l
| M. M. C. S. J
This weeks has brought the tennis tournament al
most to a close. Monday afternoon Cora Gerwig was 
defeated by Mary Craighead in a very close match. 
For a time it looked as if Miss Gerwig would win out 
but with the score 52 against her Miss Craighead 
rallied and won the set with the score of 75. The 
next set was taken over with the score of 62. 61,
61, was the score of the next match, Mary Craig
head defeating Lily Crosby. Wednesday Helen 
Stewart defeated Katherine Dermitt with a score of
61, 60. Miss Dermitt unfortunately sprained her 
ankle at the start and was unable to put up her usual 
good game. Thursday Helen Stewart defeated Laura 
Upton with the score of 60, 6-0. The match be
tween Eleanor Clark and Helen Stewart, which will 
take place this week, will be very interesting, as both 
girls play a very good game. The winner of this 
match will play Mary Craighead in the finals for 
the championship of the school.
The dressmaking girls have at last appeared in 
their new blue uniforms. They are really most 
artistic as well as serviceable and every girl looks 
as neat as a pin.
The clever girls walk to and fro,
In dresses bright and new:
They make all others want to go 
And take dressmaking, too.
The Household Arts girls are diligently studying 
still life and classic shapes in pottery so that 
they may the better choose tubs and buckets with 
good lines.
Miss West gave a very entertaining as well as in
structive talk, on words as instruments for tone, in 
the chorus class last Tuesday. It is well worth 
thinking over.
The Senior and Junior class presidents stood in 
the receiving line at the opening of the new gym
nasium. Every one who was present at the recep
tion enjoyed themselves immensely and wish to thank 
the Director and his wife for their hospitality. 
Those who were not there are hoping for another 
chance since they have heard the enthusiastic ac
counts of their classmates.
A simple-hearted and truly devout preacher, who 
had tasted but few of the drinks of the world, took 
dinner with a high-toned family, where a glass of 
milk punch was quietly set down by each plate. In 
silence and happiness this new vicar of Wakefield 
quaffed his goblet, and then added:
Madam, you should daily thank God for such a 
good cow.Hustler.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
The students of Carnegie Tech are just beginning 
to awaken to the fact that the Tech band is a real 
live organization. The music rendered at the recep
tion and later at the game last Saturday was excel
lent. The dance music put up by the band in the 
gym could not have been improved upon. The stir
ring selections played at the game were a real in
spiration. At the smoker Saturday evening, the 
band again showed its ability to deliver the real 
stuff. Training and unity marked the efforts of the 
players. The music was undeniably good.
Director Hamerschlag, always quick to recognize 
true merit, was very much pleased with the band. 
With characteristic decision he resolved to show 
his appreciation in a substantial manner. It is due 
to this fact that the band will accompany the team 
to W. & J. next Saturday at the Directors expense. 
That is the kind of recognition which means some
thing, not only to the organization directly affected 
but to the whole school.
It certainly is up to the students of Carnegie Tech 
to do their part. We have a band which is really 
worth something. If you can play some instrument, 
get out and help along. If you cant play, boost 
those who are playing. Show your appreciation by 
your interest and your applause. Show the men 
who are dong the good work that you realize what 
they are doing and are with them in everything they 
attempt.
THE BAND.
FOOTBALL NOTES.
The training table has been running for over a 
week now. A mark improvement has been noted in 
the physical condition of the men.
Tech has been very unfortunate this season in the 
matter of injuries. Middleman, who broke his collar
bone in practice last week, will probably be out of 
the game the rest of the season. Schmucker, who 
is laid up with a badly torn shoulder, will probably 
not be out on the field for a week or so. Hull is laid 
up with a bad knee and a sprained ankle, sustained in 
Saturdays game. Hes expected to be in shape for 
the W. & J. game. Hatton has not been out for prac
tice for a week on account of a pair of badly wrench
ed shoulders.
The cost of the W. & J. trip will be $1.55, $1.25 for 
the railroad fare and 30 cents for admission to game. 
The coupon on the season ticket calls for a special 
rate on the railroad as well as the game. This was 
made in accordance with an agreement Manager
Scott had with the P. R. R. Co., which agreeement 
they have been unable to fulfill. There will be a 
special train leaving the Union Station 1.15 p. m., 
Saturday and making stops at Fourth avenue and 
Crafton only. These tickets will be good on regular 
trains Saturday, Sunday and Monday, as well as on 
the special. While in Washington the team head
quarters will be the Auld House. The band will go 
on the special. Tickets are on sale at Store Room. 
Students wishing to go on street cars may buy stu
dent ticket for game separately. Present Athletic 
season tickets when getting tickets at Store Room.
GLEE CLUB.
The following list of men are eligible for last 
years insignia. If they wish pins they should con
sult one of the club officers at once:
Allen Bright 
L. H. Button
E. H. Bickley 
R. M. Crawford
F. S. Crawford 
Roy Hodgdon 
D. W. Jones
D. W. Jones 
L. F. Johnson 
R. W. Johnson
F. H. Kindi 
W. H. King
C. E. Moss 
L. A. Orrill
D. Paul Ogren 
V. Rigaumont 
R. R. Rose
J. C. Snoder
B. F. Schuchman 
T. F. Warilow 
J. T. Winterling 
H. A. Woellmer 
N. B. Wolf 
J. W. Dougherty 
P. De Ivernois 
W. P. Gettman 
H. F. Gump 
King Ewing, Jr.
H. W. Gottfried 
W. A. Schmelz 
J. W. Jones 
A. E. Prack 
R. W. Hanson
Came in last night and fell against the piano. 
Hurt yourself?
No, I struck the soft pedal.Tiger.
i *% FOOTBALL PRACTICE EVERY DAY AT 3.45 P. M. $* *
* J Every man report regularly. The success of the team depends upon it. 
* 4>
* *

---------------------------------------------------

rgL rferfB11
APPLIED DESIGN.
A number of the Plebes of the School seem to 
have a constitutional aversion to wearing those cute 
little red caps, while gaily colored hose and neck
wear hold them spellbound. Consequently they are 
furnishing considerable amusement for the second 
year class who cant understand why bright colors 
applied one place are not just as enhancing as when 
applied to another.
J. Hortons center of gravity played a trick on 
him in French class the other day. We understand 
Mr. Schaffer held a conference with Mr. Bergey 
shortly after to ascertain whether or not the stu
dents might be placed in more stable equilibrium.
The Applied Design School Three Ring Circus is 
planning to give an exhibition some time in the near 
future. The attractions are all new, novel and up 
to date, consisting of a great aerial dive by the 
world-wide famous Gilkie, Korney, with his trained 
cat, which speaks a universal language, will instruct 
as well as amuse the audience. Between the acts 
Krousy will give an exhibition of how house flies 
may be used in aerial navigation. Music for the en
tire performance will be furnished by Dolly, the 
renowned vocal soloist, assisted by a male chorus.
APPLIED INDUSTRIES.
Athletics play an important part in any school 
and every man should be interested in sport of some 
kind. Carnegie Tech has a reputation for putting 
out good teams. It is up to the men here to uphold 
that reputation. The School of Applied Industries 
has plenty of good foot-ball material. Get out and 
try for the Varsity, you big fellows! Or if that is 
too strenuous, get those class-teams going. At least 
do something. Show the rest of the Schools that 
you have got the stuff and are willing to demonstrate 
just what you can do.
The School of Applied Industries has elected 
Messrs. Gousha, Erwin and De Ivernois to represent 
it on the 1911 Thistle Board.
Second Year.
Goushas inquisitive disposition will get him into 
trouble yet, so Mr. Smith says.
Gieason (in Chemistry)Oxygen will burn in 
air.
Flood (singing)Well build a bungalow; well 
build a -bungalow, etc.
Beck and Gonsha have formed a corporation. They 
recently bought 25 cents worth of railroad stock.
Blatter has a new hat. Notice it yet?
Power Hammer in Forge Shop.
During the summer a pneumatic power hammer 
has been installed in the forge shop. It is manu
factured by the Nazel Engineering Co., of Philadel
phia, and is the latest proposition in the hammer 
world. It is the first of its kind west of the Alle
ghenies, and the fourth manufactured in America.
A ten-horse power motor, direct driven, furnishes 
the power necessary to forge work which would be 
impossible for many other hammers much heavier.
The ram of this hammer measures eight inches 
in diameter; the moving parts weigh 165 pounds, 
the total weight being four tons. It rests on a con
crete foundation of nine square feet.
The simpleness of its construction is evident, 
especially when in operation, one lever being used 
for fast, slow, light, or heavy hammering. If the 
class of work will allow a treadle attachment can 
be used.
Drop forging will be a special feature in the forge 
shop this year.
NIGHT PREP.
The Night Prep, classes held a meeting last week. 
Important business was transacted. Mr. P. S. 
Sprague was elected Temporary Chairman and took 
charge of the meeting. It was decided to have a 
Committee on Athletics, each section sending one 
man to serve, and that a chairman be elected to pre
side at committee meetings. Election of officers for 
first semester was then called for. The balloting 
resulted in the following men being put into office:
PresidentMcKee.
Athletic ChairmanKnapp.
SecretarySprague.
Tartan RepresentativeGrant.
Committee on AthleticsBragg, Dunn, Burke, 
Burns, McMinn, Maxton.
Before the meeting adjourned it was decided to 
have a constitution and by-laws drawn up for the 
Night Prep, classes, and that they be presented at 
the next meeting.
AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY.
The Pittsburgh section of the American Chemical 
Society held its regular monthly meeting in the 
Applied Science Building Thursday evening, October 
20th, at 8 oclock. Interesting addresses were de
livered. Mr. G. D. Chamberlain of the Carnegie Steel 
Co. spoke on Notes on Carbon Deposition and Re
duction of Iron Ores by Carbon Monoxide. Prof. F. 
W. Crabtree of Carnegie Tech spoke on Steel Manu
facture, with special reference to improvement in 
methods. The meeting was very well attended and 
was enjoyed by all those present.
Tufts College has abandoned co-education after a 
fifteen-year trial. President Hamilton says that co
education is un-education.


---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUES EAST END
SHOES
SEE THE NEW TOE IC I 13 I) O 
Made up in Heavy Fall and Winter Tan Button and Bluclier 
SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS FOR THE PALL STYLES
INCIDENTS.
By Wee MacGreegor.
One of the night classes were busy at work in the 
Pattern Shop. One of you fellows get a bucket of 
water for this grind-stone, shouted Mr. Smith, look
ing up from his task of putting a razor-edge on a 
refractory chisel. Ill go, said one chap, and grab
bing the bucket, he started out. Ten minutes later 
the volunteer sauntered up to the grind-stone with 
the bucket full of aqua. Where in blazes have you 
been? queried Smith. Well, the nearest place I 
knew was down in the toilet-room, answered the 
victim. What toilet-room? asked Smith. Down 
in the basement, said the boy. Further question
ing brought out the fact that the prospective pat
tern-maker had taken the trouble to draw his bucket 
of water out of the ice-tank, which is used for drink
ing-water. Smith gasped. Whats the matter? 
asked the innocent one. Nothing, oh nothing,- articulated Smith between breaths, only we usually 
get water out of that faucet at the other end of the 
shop, and besides, we never use ice-water on this 
grind-stone, its bad for its complexion.
A bunch of young Tech bloods were walking 
through the Park the other day when a pretty nursegirl passed, wheeling a child in a baby-carriage. Oh 
you kid, said one of the roisterers, but the girl stuck 
her nose into the air and sailed past indignantly. 
You fellows will have to cut that out, said a cop 
who happened to be near and saw the whole per
formance. I didnt do anything out of the way, 
said the youth who had been indiscreet. Oh, yes, 
you did, interrupted the minion of the law. Ill 
tell you, boys, youre got to behave in this park, and 
while Im here Ill make you behave. Did you get 
that? he continued, still looking at the fellow who 
was in wrong. Oh, I didnt mean anything, said 
the boy, nervously. You seeerwell, I(then 
a brilliant idea struck him), why officer, I was 
flirting with the baby! The cop looked at the fel
low an instant and then walked away. What do 
you think of that for an excuse? he muttered to 
himself disgustedly.
BlcL'5MM5EMSISJ3MSM3JSM3J3M5M3MSISMI3MSllf3fSMSIB]
| PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT I
Victory at last!
The team was right there with the goods that 
time.
Now for W. & J.!
The smoker was a real success. There are no 
halfway methods with Tech boosters.
Physical culture will be a fad when the new gym 
classes get to running.
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs are improving right 
along. Tech shines when it comes to student organ
izations.
Dont feel encouraged because she smiles at you. 
Perhaps she only wants to make the other fellow 
jealous.
What are YOU going to do on Halloweeen?
That training-table of ours helps some. Good, 
regular feeding is a big asset in Athletics.
Charette week in the Applied Design School is a 
synonym for work. All night on the job is no joke.
The 'rooting Saturday was good. Keep right on 
boosting. Well get there, alright!
When is the Tech band going to hold its first con
cert? Almost time to think about it, eh?
Cider and lemonade are bad for some people. Howsomever, the price of megaphones still remains the 
same.
*

---------------------------------------------------

Jas. / Flanneryf President. j, jm Bootht Vice-President. / G. Pewr 2d Vice-Pres. and Secy
O. B. Aylesworth, Treasurer.
RESOURCES OVER ONE AND ONE HALF MILLION DOLLARS. DEPOSITS OVER ONE MIL
LION DOLLARS. CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUS
AND DOLLARS. A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
THE TARTAN 13
MARITAL NEWS.
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Allen Booth of Morningside 
Drive, New York City have announced the engage
ment of their twin daughter, Marion Buchler, to 
Meldrim Thomson of Savannah and Pittsburgh. Mr. 
Thomson was graduated from the Carnegie Technical 
Schools in 09, and is at present connected with the 
Carnegie Steel Company. The Booths for a. long time 
were residents of West Roxbury, Brookline, and 
Winthrop, Mass., and the Misses Booth were born in 
Boston. The wedding will take place at an early 
date.
One of the pretty and important social affairs of 
this week in Oakmont was the wedding of Miss Eliza
beth Sheets to Mr. Frederick Irvine Gaston of Pitts
burgh, formerly of Tacoma, Washington. The wed
ding is of especial interest to Tech adherents as both 
the contracting persons are graduates of the Schools. 
Mr. Gaston was formerly editor-in-chief of the Tartan, 
graduating in 09, Met. Miss Sheets was a M. M. 
C. S. girl. The wedding took place Wednesday af
ternoon at the home of the brides parents, Mr. and 
Mrs. William 'H. H. Sheets in Oakmont. The cere
mony, which was prettily appointed, was witnessed 
by a number of the relatives and friends of the two 
families. Miss Dorothy Scott served as maid of 
honor to the bride, and the two brides-maids were 
Miss Bell Campbell and Miss Maude Carlin, of the 
East End. The Rev. Charles F. Wishart served as 
best man for his cousin, and the ushers were Wil
liam C. Chancellor and Louis Beeken. A wedding 
reception and dinner was given later in the' day at 
the home of the bride. After a wedding trip, Mr. 
and Mrs. Gaston will make their home in Pittsburgh.
HostessWill you take your tea with a lemon, 
Mr. Jones?
Blase YouthI prefer it with a peach.
However, if your daughter insists.Lampoon .
IMPORTANT.
Notice to All Students.
Students must keep the stubs of the season foot
ball tickets on which is written the students name, 
and number, as these tickets will be accepted at the 
gate for the 1911 base-ball season, or will be ex
changed for season base-ball tickets.
G. C. HECKER, 
Base-ball Manager.
The following clipping, taken from The Lafayette, 
shows one way of making a Freshman keep in good 
standing:
One of the fraternities situated on the campus 
has taken the lead in inaugrating a system of report 
cards, by which the Freshmen belonging to the so
ciety are compelled to make good in their college 
work before being allowed to have the freedom of 
their evenings. The cards are printed with spaces 
for each study so that the various members of the 
faculty can mark every two weeks just how well 
the Freshmen in question is doing. If the marks 
are not up to the standard the Freshman cannot 
have the freedom of his evenings until they are 
made so. The idea is very commendable and now 
that it has been started it would be well to have it 
adopted by all of the fraternities. If the system 
became prevalent there would be a far smaller num
ber of men who are riding the bumps each year at 
the end of the first term.
Sing a song of six-pence,
A bottle full of rye;
Four-and-twentyswallows 
For some thirsty guy;
When the bottles opened 
Each swallow homeward flies;
Wouldnt that make any king 
Gurgle in surprise?
Scraggs, 14.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
'V4*\+Vi*N4'\iSi'\+\4'N+V+\4,\i\4,N,!,\+\4,N,,N4,S4,\4,S4,\+\4>S4'\4'S4,S4,N^SiiNi\i\4'N4'S^\4'\\4iS4' 4*
!t Forbes and Atwood Sts.Oakland
^r\e"Best Store
Mens Kid Gloves special $1.00 a Pair.
Mens Fall and Winter Weight Union Suits 
(Superior Make) $1.00, $1.50 to $3.00 a Suit.
Onyx Brand Silk Hosiery for Men, Black and al 
Colors, 50c a pair.
**?*****
*
***
*******
ALUMNI NOTES.THE SENIOR.
Fred A. Stevenson and J. E. Crawford, 1910 Me
chanicals, are situated at Crystal City, Mo., where 
they are in the employ of the Pittsburg Plate Glass 
Company.
John L. Elliott, 10, Civil, is holding down the po
sition of Assistant County Engineer of Washington 
County, Pa.
The E. M. F. Co. of Youngstown, Ohio, at present 
is fortunate in commanding to services of E. H. 
Bickley, 10.
Bun Mason, 10, base-ball and hockey star, is 
working for the B. & O. at Somerset, Pa.
Nearly all the 1910 Electricals are in the employ 
of the various Westinghouse concerns of the city.
Ben Watrous, the jovial vintage of 09, has left a 
good position at Morgentown, N. C., to take up a 
more lucrative job with the D. L. and W. R. R. at 
Scranton, Pa.
Tex Walton, 09, has accepted a good position 
with the Pennsylvania Salt Manufacturing Co., of 
Natrona, Pa. He was formerly employed by the 
Mes>,a Machine Co.
W. C. Bates, 09, the crack half-miler, is situated 
with the R. D. Nuttall Co., of this city.
Dots Felkel, 09, is taking a post-graduate course 
in Chemistry and Metallurgy. He will attend the 
night school.
Illinois University has a married womens club 
among its organizations.
Cornell gives credits for recreation walks in place 
of regular gymnasium work.
The dawn is slowly breaking,
Above the eastern hills;
The cold night air assails him with 
Malaria and chills.
But the Seniors lamps still burning 
As he sits before his desk,
Ever seeking, eer pursuing
Phanton knowledge in the quest
His eyes are wild and blood-shot;
His arms are tired and sore;
As brokenly he crawls to bed,
The clock strikes half-past four.
Oh, theres pleasure for the Freshman;
And the Soph has time to jest;
Een the Junior has evenings off,
But the Senior get no rest.
By One of Them.
A gay young Parisian de Laine,
Long courted an heiress in vain.
When he said, Now or niver!
She answered, Au river!
So he promptly, of course, went in Seine.Ex.
SheWhat are shoes made of, brightness? 
HeSimple enough-skins.
SheHow about banana skins?
HeThey save those for slippers.Ex.
Get your class fobs either nickel, silver or gold, 
any year, at the SCHENLEY LUNCH, Craig and 
Forbes.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
***X***
*iiI$ii
*i1*
ADVANTAGES OF SECURING A SUBSCRIPTION:
It saves you $.80 a year.
Sure of securing your paper.
Can be mailed to your address.
Subscriptions can be obtained from the following men:
Applied Science, Senior Class - - - - - - - H. J. McCorkle
Applied Science, Junior Class - - - - - - C. C. Hixenbange
Applied Science, Sophomore Class - - - - - - C. S. Stewart
Applied Science, Plebe Class - - . - - - - - Guy Kelcy
Applied Design School - - - - - - - - G. A. Ebeling
School of Applied Industries - - - - - J. J. Powell
****$****
?**
****$*****
A newly-made magistrate was gravely absorbed in 
a formidable document. Raising his keen eyes, he 
said to the man who stood patiently awaiting the 
award of justice: Officer, what is this man charged 
with?
Bigotry, your worship. Hes got three wives, 
replied the officer.
The new justice rested his elbows on the desk and 
placed his fingertips together. Officer, he said, 
somewhat sternly, Whats the use of all this edu
cation, all these evening schools, all the technical 
classes an what not? Please remember, in any fu
ture like case, that a man who has married three 
wives has not committed bigotry but trigonometry. 
Proceed.Lincoln State Journal.
S.- See the Tartan Manager for student rates on 
y the following scientific papers;
* The Electric Railway Journal
4* The Electrical World&4. The Engineering Record
Vanderbilt is having trouble this year because so 
many of her men are declared ineligible on account 
of low scholarship.
Cornell coaches find difficulty in getting men uot 
for practice and threaten to discontinue football at 
that institution.
Doctor (to Pats wife after examining Pat, who 
has been run over by an auto)Madam, I fear your 
husbands dead.
Pat (feebly)No, I aint dead yet.
Pats WifeHush, Pat, the gentleman knows bet
ter than you.Ex.
Fire in the heart sends smoke in the head.Ger
man Proverb.
He
He
He
He
who knoweth not and knoweth not that he 
knoweth not,
He is a Freshman, 
who knoweth not and knoweth 
knoweth not,
He is a Sophomore, 
who knoweth not and knoweth 
knoweth not,
He is a Junior, 
who knoweth not and knoweth 
knoweth not,
He is a Senior.Ex.
not that he
not that he
not that he
Four men where severely injured when Alabama 
College played her first game.
GOOD CLOTHES CHEAPER
504-506 Federal St., North Side

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
X4-X4-X*X*X4*X4-X4*X4-X4-X4-X4'X4'X4'X4'X4*X4-\4'X4- 4**4****4* 
i 
4* Shoe for Men $3.50. 
4**4**4**4**
B. & B.
An exceptional Dull Gun Metal Calf
BOGGS & BUHL
?*?*****
*+>4**
*4******
4X4X4*4X4X4X4X4X4X4&4-X4X4X4X*X4*4-X4X
xoxaxoxaxoxaxaxaxaxoxDXoxQXQxaxoxax
I MELLON NATIONAL BANK
g 514 SMITHF1ELD STREET
8 +09 I IFTH AVENUE
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
CAPITAL - $4,000,000
SURPLUS - $3,200,000
xttXttxttXgxoxCTxaxaxoxgxttxoxoxoxoxaxaxg
A.G.SPA
THE SPALDING
TRADEMARK
Is known throughout the 
world as a Guarantee of 
Quality.
LDING&BROS.
Are the Largest Manufacturers in the World oi
OFFICIAL
EQUIPMENT
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes
IT vnil are interested in II IUU Athletic Sport you should have a copy of the Spalding Catalogue. Its a complete encyclopedia o f WHATS NEW IN SPORT and is .sent free on request.A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
439 Wood St., Pittsburg Pa.
I Barkley & Cummings
04**4*04**4*04*/4*04**4*04*4*Cr4*?4*04*/404*/4*Q4**4*O4*4*
FORBES STREET PHARMACY
DO U KNO? We*- T a full line of: 
Ankle Braces, Wristbands, Knee Caps, Station
ery, School Supplies, Etc.
Our Sanitary Soda Fountain is Unexcelled
Reymers, Johnstons and Park & Tilfords Con
fections always fresh and plenty to select from.
Belleiield Presbyterian Church
CAMPBELL COYLE, Minister
9.45 A. M.Brotherhood Bible Study. 
11:00 A.M.Morning Service.
7:00 P.M.Y. P. S. C. E.
8:00 P. M.Evening Service.
*4 f 
T f 4** v t 4*4*4*4*?4*?*
4,4,4,4,4,4*4,4*4,4,4,4,4,4<,4*4*44,4,4i4i4>#4*-'4<44*4*4*4:4,4*4,4,4*
4a 4*4* 4s 4*4*4* 4a 4e 4* 4*4* 4*4*4* 4*4*4* 4* 4*4*4*4* 4* 4a 4* 4*4* 4*4* 4*4* 4a4*4*4*v
All Tech Faculty and Student Body Welcome
8$9
4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4- 4* 4* 4* *i* 4" 4* 4* 4* 4* 4s 4* v 4* 4' i 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* v 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4*4* >
HEIMERTS TOQERY SHOP
Where all the Tech boys go. Why pay $1.00 and $i-5Q for Tech 
Pennants when you can get them here at 50c and 75c
&% *u%xo .QX0SaPITTSBURG,PA.
Open Evenings
>>4*\4*\4*N4*N4*%4*S4*N4*N4*H4*\4*\*i,S4)Vi*'%4*'%4*'**S*Vic Vi*"-. X4,X4*X4*V___The Worlds Best Hatters Make
Soft Hats and Caps for Comfort, Sport or 
Travel. Derbies, Silk and Opera Hats for 
Dress. The best only from the Worlds Best 
Hatters.
OTTO OETTING
Seventh & Smithfield. Fifth & Wylie.
S*X*X* *.< 4X4,\4,\4,\4tV>X4,\4,\4,X4*\4,S4,\4,V5,X4,\4,X4,\4,X4,X4,X
