&
VOL. 49No. 21 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., MARCH 27, 1956
Carnegie Receives 
Computation Center
A computation center, new all-institutional teaching and research 
facility, will be opened at Carnegie Tech September 1, 1956 and Dr. 
Alan J. Perlis of Purdue University has been named to direct its 
operation, it was announced last Friday.
Essentially a huge mathematical* 
processing machine, the Center 
Will greatly increase the rapidity
of providing numerical answers to 
%esearch and development prob
lems by adding, subtracting, mul
tiplying, and dividing almost in
stantaneously. The center will 
consist of an IBM-type Model-2 
Magnetic Drum Data processing 
machine and many items of 
punched card accessoi'y equip
ment.
Complex problems are broken 
into smaller parts and fed into 
|fihe machine on coded punched 
Cards. Numerical answers emerge 
with amazing speed, sparing 
scientists from the drudgery of 
computation and allowing them to 
apply more oi their time to actual 
research.
Of City-wide Value
In addition to supplying compu
tational service to Carnegie Tech, 
industry, and the government, the 
center will be used as a tool for 
^research in developing further 
theory of machine computation, 
and for educating students in its 
mathematics, techniques and fu
ture possibilities.
The computation center at 
Carnegie Tech is made possible 
by the IBM educational contribu
tion program. It will be located 
in the Graduate School of Indus
trial Administration and run by 
a staff headed by Dr. Perlis, pres
ent head of the Computing Lab
oratory at Purdue University.
Computation Research
Dr. Perlis, who received -his
B.A. in chemistry from Carnegie 
in 1942, will also serve as an as
sociate professor in the mathe
matics department. He is widely 
recognized as a computer expert 
for his work at Purdue and his 
many published papers on the 
subject. He holds M.S. and Ph.D. 
^degrees from Massachusetts In
stitute of Technology. |
In keeping with Carnegie Tech 
tradition, the Center will seek to 
disseminate as widely as possible 
all progress in computational tech
niques originating with Dr. Per
lis, his staff and dther Carnegie 
researchers.
Christian Elements 
In Teaching Part 
Of Faculty Meeting
Dr. Harold K. Schilling, Dean 
of the Graduate School of Penn
sylvania State University, will be 
the speaker and discussion leader 
for the second annual Faculty 
Christian Fellowship Conference 
of Western Pennsylvania. This 
conference will be held on Sat
urday, April 7, 1956 at Shadyside 
Academy. All faculty members 
and leading assistants at Carnegie 
Tech are invited to attend.
Dr. Schilling, who Is a physicist, 
will deal with the problems of a 
Christian teacher, and * how one 
implements the Christian perspec
tive in teaching, He has been a 
leader for the Science and Reli
gion Seminar held for two weeks 
every summer at Penn State, and 
has been a frequent contributor to 
the Christian Scholar, quarterly 
publication of the national Fac
ulty Christian Fellowship.
The meeting will start with the 
noon meal and continue through 
9:30 p.m. The continuation com
mittee in charge of planning the 
conference is made up of: Profes
sor Frederick Mayer, University 
of Pittsburgh; Professor Marga
ret Fulton, Chatham College; and 
Professor Robert Burdett, Car
negie Tech. Further information 
may be obtained from Mr. Sam 
Gibson or Miss Ruth Shinn in the 
Office of Religious Affairs. Regis
tration deadline is Thursday, 
March 29.
Tech Seeks US 
9Oratory Crown
This year Carnegie Tech will 
again enter a. contestant in the 
Sun-Telegraphs Annual Tourna
ment of Orators, which is part of 
a nationwide contest under the 
auspices of the Hearst Newspa
pers.
Tech has participated in the 
contest in former years and our 
success so far has been reason
ably good. Of those still in the 
school, Tucker Ashworth and 
Claude Jenkins, both dramats, 
have, in different years, won first 
prize locally and then gone on to 
win the midwestern champion
ships. This year were after the 
national title.
An oration must be original, de
livered without notes, and limited 
to six minutes. The subject is 
John Adams. Only one contestant 
will be chosen from the school. 
Anyone interested in entering, 
please contact Miss Edith Warman Skinner, Room 102 Fine Arts.
Bureau Of Mines, 
CIT Cooperate 
On Grad Research
The Bureau or Mines Depart
ment of Interior has established 
a group of graduate fellowships 
in metallurgy and related fields 
at Carnegie Tech, it was announc
ed yesterday by President J. C. 
Warner and Regional Director H. 
P. Gi'eenwald of the Bureaus Re
gion V.
The fellowships will be avail
able for the next academic year, 
beginning September 1. Graduate 
students selected by a joint com
mittee will do research under 
supervision at both Carnegie Tech 
Metals Research Laboratory and 
the Bureaus pilot plant facilities 
adjoining the campus. 
Hi-Temperature Work Preferred
Projects selected by the fellows 
must have significant value for 
both Carnegie and the Bureau and 
must be of a fundamental and 
original nature so that doctoral 
theses  can be based on them. 
Theses on any phase of high tem
perature metallurgy related to 
metal refining are currently of 
special interest to the selection 
committee-.
Applications for these fellow
ships should be submitted as soon 
as possible to the Dean of Grad
uate Studies here at Tech.
Commenting on the cooperative 
arrangement, Carnegie President 
Warner stated, The pilot plant 
equipment gathered at the U.S. 
Bureau of Mines in Pittsburgh 
(Continued on Page 2)
Graduation Fees
Graduation fees are paya
ble in the Office of the Regis
trar by April 2. This applies 
to all candidates for degrees 
bachelor, master and doctor 
at the June Commencement. 
Doctoral candidates are re
minded that the $25.00 de
posit pending the publication 
of their dissertations is also 
due on the same date. This 
deposit should be paid to Mr. 
Claney in the Office of the 
Controller.
Opportunity 
Still Knocks
There are still places available 
in the Music, Drama, and Fine 
Arts Traveling Seminar being 
sponsored by the Carnegie Tech 
YMCA in Europe next summer. 
The final date for application is 
April 6. This seminar is open to 
all students from the Pittsburgh 
area. The seminar will be under 
the direction of Dr. Norman 
Dawes, associate professor of his
tory at Carnegie Tech.
The seminar will leave from 
New York City for London on 
July 8, and return from Europe 
on August 22. Transatlantic travel, 
in both directions, will be aboard 
a special flight of a regularly 
scheduled world airline, and will 
be in company with traveling 
seminars from Penn State and 
West Virginia University. The 
seminar will visit England, 
France, Italy, Austria, Germany, 
Holland, and Scotland.
Unusual Itinerary
The present itinerary includes 
performances of the Glyndebourne 
Opera, the Shakespeare Memor
ial Theatre at Stratford - on - 
Avon, the Cheltenham Festival 
of Contemporary British Music, 
the Aix-en-Provence Music Fes
tival, the Caracalla in Rome, the 
Salzburg Mozart Bicentenary Fes
tival, the Bayreuth Wagner Festi
val, and the Edinburgh Interna
tional Festival of Drama and Mu
sic. Adequate time will be arrang
ed in London, Paris, Chartres, 
(Continued on Page 2)
Printers' Sculpture Work
Left to right are Eugene Burke, Arnold Olds, John E. Johnson, 
Philip Nemy, Paul Varga, and Paul Doebler.
Technicals April Issue 
On 1-Company Towns
The Technical Staff hinted that they have something under their 
hats which could be the biggest thing that has hit this campus since 
the advent of Skibo. They call it One-Company-Towns. But whats 
in a name? Theyre claiming quite a lot, especially when it has to do
-------------------------------------------------------#with their April theme issue.
A com Each year the Technical deOf Greek Week 
Postponed Till Fall
The Council of Fraternity 
Presidents has decided that the 
idea of Greek Week is basically 
%ound, but that the best time to 
hold it would be in the fall short
ly after classes start. At the CFP 
meeting last Monday, further 
planning of this event was post
poned until next fall.
The scholarship committee re
ported that they found out noth
ing significant but that they will 
publish results of their survey.
Greek Sing recordings of each 
individual group are available for 
the amount^of $2.00 each, and the 
pictures of each group are also 
on sale.
Oft-recurring issues discussed 
again were the matter of getting 
party chaperons before the dead
lines and the parking situation on 
the lane between Phi Kappa and 
Beta Sigma Rho. The non-Tech 
resident of that lane is often per
turbed, and rightly so. when find
ing his only exit to civilization 
blocked by a vast number of cars 
belonging to fraternity men.
CFPs good deed for the season 
will be on April 14, when one re
presentative from each fraternity 
will volunteer to spend a day 
working at a local childrens 
home.
Techs Elaine Edwards Is Apple 
Blossom Queen Of Pennsylvania
Carnegie Tech has among its students Pennsylvanias 1956 Apple 
Blossom Queen, Elaine Edwards, a junior in clothing and textiles in 
Margaret Morrison and a member of Delta Gamma Sorority.
Elaine, who cooks, sews, swims, golfs, and plays the piano, will 
serve as a princess on the Shenandoah Apple Blossom Queens court
?at the Shenandoah Apple Blossom 
Festival at Winchester, Virginia, 
April 26 through 30.
Each year, the Pennsylvania 
Horticultural Association selects a 
Pennsylvania girl to appear at 
the Winchester Festival. This year 
Elaine sailed through the com
petition, which was based on gen
eral intelligence and personality, 
appearance, and attractiveness in 
street attire, informal attire, and 
evening dress. For the last phase 
of the competition Elaine wore a 
champagne evening dress comple
mented with silver tracery and 
spiked with accessories of Nile 
green.
Interested in dress design, she 
is currently working on her first 
original project, an evening dress 
in a turquoise shade. She is a 
member of the Home Ec Club, the 
YWCA, and is the new corres
ponding secretary of Delta Gam
ma.
Elaine Edwards
Apple Blossom Queen
votes one issue to a central theme; 
last years issue, entitled In
finite Cathedral, won national 
recognition, this year the staff ex
pects to accomplish the same 
with One-Company-Towns.
The whole issue will be devot
ed to three small towns located 
in Kentucky, West Virginia, and 
Connecticut. Each town has only 
one industrial firm located within 
its limits, and this firm provides 
most of the employment for the 
towns inhabitants. The Technical 
was interested in investigating the 
social, economic, and political set
ups of these towns as well as the 
existing company-community re
lations. A further aim was to see 
exactly how the community has 
changed since the company moved 
in.
Research Teams
To gather material three teams 
of students were sent to each 
town to talk to civic leaders, 
workers, retailers, company pers o n n e 1, educators, newspaper 
writers, and many others. Al 
Woody, Jon Saxe, and Paul Bor
land were sent down to Branden
burg, Kentucky, where an Olin 
Mathieson Chemical Corporation 
plant is located. Charles Schaul, 
Sherwin Lovett, and Basil Louros 
concentrated their investigation in 
Ravenswood, West Virginia, the 
future home of Kaiser Aluminums 
new 220 million dollar rolling mill.
The third town studied was the 
location of a much older com
pany. Bigelow Sanford Carpet 
Company set up operations in 
Thompsonville, Connecticut in 
the 19th century. Alex Federowicz and Andre Giroux did the 
work on this New England town. 
A fourth supplementary article 
written by Lou Pondy will deal 
with what the governments are 
doing to encourage such moves 
and why.
Magazines
Carnegie Tech students 
have been requested to 
mail directly abroad to for
eign students and teachers the 
many good American maga
zines they now waste every 
month. The State Department 
and the United States Infor
mation Service are cooperat
ing with the organization. 
Magazines for Friendship." 
in inviting colleges to partici
pate in this project. Complete 
information concerning how 
and where to send magazines 
and a representative list of 
appropriate publications is 
available in the Public Rela
tions Office. AH 127. Mrs, 
Reidbord, Ext. 316, will be 
glad to help those who are in
terested in this project.

---------------------------------------------------

P*re 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 27, 1956
a sweet-smelling luxurious turkbut hark! Why that incessant 
ish towel proffered by the courtpounding of my door? Who are 
eous attendant. In fact, I so wishthese shadowy figures emerging 
ed to preserve the pleasant memfrom the splintered door frame? | 
ories of this inspiring friendship Oh! Hello, Rufe, the towel is unthat I appropriated one of the derfoot. But Rufe! Ill retu . . . .
I would like to have some rea
sons why the ivy was ripped off 
the Fine Arts Building. It has 
taken generations for that ivy to 
growits a crime to take it down. 
Maybe we dont have much school 
spirit . . . but lets keep whatever 
atmosphere weve got!
(Continued no Page 4)North American 
Aviation 
Los Angeles
ivill interview here
HEY STOP! IT'S LUCKY DROODLE TIME!
WHATS THIS?
For solution see 
paragraph below.
Fellowships
[Continued from page 1] 
Warner stated, The pilot plant 
will allow fellows to do engineer
ing theses which they couldn't 
possibly do at any academic lab
oratory. I refer especially to the 
model blast furnace with a 12-ton 
per day capacity, an open hearth 
furnace with a 3-ton capacity, a 
one-ton steel converter, a Vzton electric arc furnace and a 
rotary kiln.
Previously Tried 
The cooperative arrangement 
was approved after an experi
mental program last fall in which 
Herbert W. Hosking worked to
ward a Ph.D. degree under the 
supervision of R. C. Buehl, chief 
of the Bureaus pyrometallurgical 
laboratory in Pittsburgh, and W. 
O. Philbrook, professor of metal
lurgical engineering at Carnegie 
Tech.
SUNDIAL WITH 
5 OCLOCK SHADOW
Charles Segal ClemsonFISHING AROUND for a betteritasting cigarette? Investigate the 
jDroodle above: Skin diver taking 
Lucky break on shore. Moral: 
Experts on deep-down enjoymentprefer Luckies because they taste 
better. As you know, Luckies are 
made of fine tobacco . . . natu
rally good-tasting tobacco thats 
TOASTED to taste even better. 
So get in the swimlight up a 
Lucky. Youll say its the besttasting cigarette you ever smoked!
OSTRICH IN DANGER
Samuel Salkin U. of California
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
NOON RUSH 
IN PIGPENEileen Peterson 
South Dakota StateSeminar
[Continued from page 1] 
Rome, Florence, Venice, and 
Amsterdam to visit architectural 
masterpieces and art galleries, as 
well as some of the usual tourist 
attractions.
The seminar is open to all stu
dents at the University of Pitts
burgh, Carnegie Tech, Chatham, 
Duquesne, and other Pittsburgh 
colleges. The maximum number of 
participants which can be accept
ed is 15. The total cost, excluding 
personal incidentals, will be $885. 
This covers travel, food, hotel 
accomodations, sightseeing and 
excursions, and good tickets to all 
itemized Festival events.
Applications may be made im
mediately by contacting Mr. Sam 
Gibson, YMCA Executive, in the 
Carnegie Tech Union. The final 
date ior applications will be 
April 6.
Students!
Cut yourself in on the Lucky Droodle gold mine. We pay $25 for all we useand for a whole raft we dont use! Send your Droodles with descriptive titles. Include your name, address, college and class and the name and address of the dealer in y%ir college town from whom you buy cigarettes most often. Address: Lucky Droodle, Box 67A, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
LUCKIES TASTE BETTER - Cleaner, Fresher, Smoother!
AMERICAS LEADING MANUFACTURES OF CIGARETTESPRODUCT OF
Past Dean Of Men Ben David 
Finds Challenge At Miami U.
Over The 
Sldbo Table
By Marshall R. Pihl
Cannon[Continued from page 8]
of emerging in a rosy haze from 
a strenuous swim and drying with
copious towels, which I now use 
for a wall to wall carpet.
In the short space of a week, 
the perception of Mr. Cannons 
noble efforts to better humanity 
strengthened by determination to

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 27, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
Torch Bearers 
Continuing Run 
At The Playhouse
The Pittsburgh Playhouse pro
duction of The Torch-Bearers 
is an established hit in the fourth 
week of its run. The comedy stars 
ffrelen Wayne Rauh, Grace Holtby, and Will Disney, who are all 
turning in some of the finest 
comedy portrayals of their exper
ienced careers.
The Torch-Bearers, is a rol
licking lampoon of the little 
theater movement of the twenties. 
Sparked by the steam-rolling en
thusiasm of the towns misguided 
civic leader, Mrs. J. Duro Pampinelli, The Torch-Bearers conih----------------------------------------------------
cerns her attempts to force culture 
down the combined throats of her 
fellow citizens by producing a 
disastrously amateur one-act play.
Based on his own observation, 
Pulitzer Prize winner George 
Kelly was inspired to write his 
lampoon of little theater groups 
from having met so many ama
teur drama lovers during his 
vaudeville tours of the 1920s.
Featured in the strong support
ing cast are Fairy Clutter, Harvey 
Jurik, Carl Esser, Robert Nellis, 
Lu Beery, Darrell Zworling and 
Adelyn Coughlin. Rita Julius and 
William Skelton complete the 
company. The Torch-Bearers is 
scheduled to run in the Craft Ave
nue Theater of the Playhouse 
through Saturday, March 31.
On Campuswith 
MaxShulman
(Author of ''Barefoot Boy With Cheek, etc.)

ADVENTURES IN SOCIAL SCIENCE: NO. 3
Today, ranging again into the fascinating world of social 
science, let us take up the subject of anthropology  the study 
of man and his origins.
The origin of man was indeed a vexing question until the 
Frenchman, Jean-Louis Sigafoos, discovered the skull and shin
bone of Pithecanthropus Erectus in Java in 1891. (What Siga
foos was doing in Java is, incidentally, quite an odd little story. 
Sigafoos was a Parisian born and bred. By day one could always 
find him at a boulevard cafe, sipping Bire de Racine and ogling 
the girls ; each night he went to a fashionable casino where he 
gambled heavily at roulette and jacks; in between times he 
worked on his stamp collection.
. fite stwty o{ mat fiii.Orisif...
(Well sir, one summer Sigafoos lost his entire fortune gam
bling at the casino, and he was seriously contemplating suicide 
when a ray of hope appeared in an unexpected quarter. It seems 
that Sigafoos, through the international stamp collectors jourg nal, had long been in correspondence with a girl in Java, a 
mission-educated savage named Lotus Petal McGinnis, herself 
an enthusiastic stamp collector. The nature of their correspond
ence, though friendly, had been entirely philatelic. Now, sud
denly, a new kind of letter came from Lotus Petal. She declared 
that although she had never laid eyes on Sigafoos, she loved 
him and wanted to marry him. She said she was eighteen years 
old, beautiful, and her father, the richest man in his tribe, would 
give half his fortune to the husband of her choice. Sigafoos, 
in his reduced circumstances, had no alternative; he sold his 
last few belongings and booked passage for Java.
. (The first sight of his prospective bride failed to delight 
? Sigafoos. She was, as she said, beautiful  but only by local 
standards. Sigafoos had serious doubts that her bright red 
pointed teeth and the chicken bones hanging from her ear lobes 
would be considered chic along the Champs Elysees.
(But sobering as was the sight of Lotus Petal, Sigafoos had 
an even greater disappointment coming when he met her father. 
The old gentleman was, as Lotus Petal had represented, the 
richest man in his tribe, but, unfortunately, the medium of ex
change in his tribe was prune pits.
(Sigafoos took one look at the mound of prune pits which 
was his dowry, gnashed his teeth, and stomped off into the
IS jungle, swearing vilely and kicking at sticks and stones and 
whatever else lay in his path. Stomping thus, swearing thus, 
kicking thus, Sigafoos kicked over a heap of old bones which  
what do you know!  turned out to be the skull and shin of 
Pithecanthropus Erectus.)
But I digress ... From the brutish Pithecanthropus, man 
evolved slowly upward, growing more intelligent and resource
ful. By the Middle Paleolithic period man had invented the 
leash, which was' a remarkable technical achievement, but 
frankly not terribly useful until the Mesolithic period when man 
VO invented the dog.
In the Neolithic period came far and away the most important 
development in the history of mankind  the discovery of agri
culture. Why is this so important, you ask? Because, good 
friends, without agriculture there would be no tobacco, and 
without tobacco there would be no Philip Morris, and without 
Philip Morris you would be without the gentlest, mildest, sun
niest, pleasantest, happiest smoke that money can buy, and I 
would be without a job.
Thats Why. Ma* Shulman. 195
To their Neolithic ancestors, the makers of Philip Morris extend 
^ m grateful salute. And so will you when you try today s new gentle 
Philip Morris in today* new pack of red, white and gold.
Local Symphony 
Study Conference 
Held This Week
When the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra returned to its. native 
city March 23 after ten days of 
tour activities in the East, it im
mediately plunged into the Pitts
burgh Symphony Conductors Con
ference, being held at Syria 
Mosque this week. This Confer
ence is jointly sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Society and 
the American Symphony Orchestra 
League through a special grant 
from the Rockefeller Foundation.
The Conference is being given 
with the help of the Orchestra 
members and staff, under the 
guiding hand of its world famed 
conductor, William Steinberg, for 
the purpose of making available 
a study conference for younger 
conductors who have already ob
tained some training and experi
ence, but who wish to continue 
their studies.
Saturday, March 31, will be the 
last day of the affair, and the Or
chestra will then resume its regu
lar activities, which will include 
the performances of Mozart in 
conjunction with the Mozart Fes
tival being held April 2 to 20 by 
the five colleges and universities 
in Pittsburgh, commemorating 
the two-hundredth anniversary 
of the birth of Mozart. The last 
two subscription concerts, April 
6 and 8, ana 13 and 15, will fea
ture the Concerto for Violin in A 
Major, with Julian Olevsky as 
soloist, and a performance of 
Cosi fur tutti in modern dress 
and sung in English.
William Steinberg has been 
chosen to receive the Mahler Med
al, an award given to outstand
ing conductors from time to time 
in recognition of the performance 
of Mahlers music by the con
ductors and orchestras of the 
United States. The Bruckner So
ciety of America, giver of the 
award, has asked Mr. Charles 
Denby, President of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony. Society, to present the 
Bronze Plaque to Steinberg on the 
evening of April 6 at the nine
teenth concert of the Orchestras 
season in Syria Mosque, at which 
a performance of the Mahler 
Symphony No. 5 will be given.
Puzzler
Courtesy of Pi Mu Epsilon
Snowstorms during recent week
ends brought the following prob
lem to mind: A snowplow started 
to plow at 3:00 p.m. after a steady 
snow had started earlier. It was 
snowing steadily throughout and 
the snowplow encountered resist
ance proportional to the depth of 
snow on the ground. The snowplow 
traveled twice as far during the 
first hour that it was snowing as 
during the second. At what time 
did it start snowing?
The only correct solution re
ceived for last weeks puzzler was 
sent in by Carl Gifxels, a grad
physicist. Our solution: In general 
the vertices of an n-dimensional 
unit cube are represented by the 
points with the coordinates (a,b,c,
.............,n-l,n) where a,b,c..............
n-l,n may take on the values 0 
or 1. The wires of resistence 1 ohm 
may connect only those points 
which are related to each other 
by the fact that one has one of its
0 elements replaced by a 1 to form 
the other.
For example, in 5 dimensions 
the initial corner is represented by 
(0,0,0,0,0) and this point has wires 
connecting it to the points (1,0,0,0, 
0). (0,1,0,0,0), (0,0,1,0,0), (0,0,0, 
1,0), and (0,0,0,0,1). The point 
(1,0,0,0,0) then has wires connect
ing it to (1,1,0,0,0), (1,0,1,0,0),
(1,0,0,1,0) and (1,0,0,0,1) but r#:>t 
to (0,0,1,0,1).
For reasons of symmetry, the 
points whose sum is k are all at the 
same potential. There are C sub r 
to the n power points at each po
tential, each of which has r-1 one 
ohm resistances connecting it and 
points at potential r+1. Thus the 
total resistance in n dimensions is 
equal to the sum from i equal 0 to
1 equal n-1 of 1 divided by the 
product of (n-i) times C to the n 
power.
SAVE UP TOHE%
On used cars of every make and new 
195fi Fords. See Wally Donoghue 
101 Welch Hall, CITMU 3-02if
rr
A Campus-to-Career Case History
On the left, ff illiam Nock Colonna, B.S. in Business 
Administration, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, 52.
Sales results...and something more1
Two and a half months after he began 
training with The Chesapeake & Potomac 
Telephone Company of Maryland, Bill 
Colonna went into the army, spending a 
year in Korea.
While in the service, Bill says, I 
never thought of having to look for an
other job. I resumed my career in the 
telephone business as soon as I got back. 
Whats more, my rate of pay was in
creased by crediting my time in the army.
"After training, I wras promoted to 
Sales Manager in Salisbury, Md. I'm re
sponsible^ initiating, planning and co
ordinating sales activities in an area 
serving 50,000 customers in nine counties
on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. I 
select and train men for my sales force, 
and help business office managers with 
their sales problems.
Sales and marketing in the telephone 
business are growing more important 
every day. Weve many new and different 
services to offer people. Its a job with 
scope, variety and challenge.
Arranging for customers communi
cations requirements keeps me in touch 
with all departments of the company. 
These contacts add valuable experience 
that will always prove useful. I wanted 
a career that was broad and full of oppor
tunities, and'thats what Ive got.
Bill Colonna is typical of the many young men who have 
interesting jolis in the telephone business. Career oppor
tunities of many kinds exist in other Bell Telephone 
Companies, and in Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western 
Electric and the Sandia Corporation. Your placement 
oflicer has more information about these companies.
Beli
Telephon
System
L

---------------------------------------------------

Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARDS MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.  -Oakland
Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 27, 1956
CriticismLITTLf MAN ON CAMPUSNotas De Un Oyente
True to their normal inconsistency in publica
tion dates, the Scot again did not appear on the 
date scheduled, but instead was a day earlier. This 
sneaky maneuver enabled them to dupe the inno
cent public into buying their magazine a day in 
advance of the Natrat, which costs somewhat less, 
and which appears with regularity every year on 
the Tuesday nearest to April 1.
The space limitations referred to on page  of 
Scot (no page numbers again) prevent us from 
including a comprehensive review, but this latest 
issue, which is featured by a vast number of bor
rowed photographs and jokes, has proven very 
popular among the masses. In answer to the pro
blem posed, we cannot advocate pornography un
less it is at least good pornography. Also, the stam
peding masses could not be running either to or 
from the Tartan since the sign in the background 
plainly says Student Council meeting today, and 
everybody knows Student Council meets on Wed
nesday.
Skibo Table
[Continued from page 2]
There seems to be a fraternity on campus thats 
got a monopoly on trophies. At least thats the way 
it looked at Intramural night. Its about time that 
the rest of the groups got on the proverbial stick 
and broke that monopoly. Whats the sense of any 
intramural competition at all if we know from the 
beginning whos going to win out? How about a 
little action?* * *
I am not proud of Carnegie Tech. I dont have 
a Fight-to-the-death-for-dear-old-CIT feeling 
about the place. Im afraid that there are many 
more like me. Whats wrong with us?
Ive got some ideas on the subject. Were a col
lection of several separate, uninterested groups of 
students who all seem to think the others one is 
either wrong or inferior. We dont pull as a group, 
because were pulling against ourselves.
Perhaps the best thing thats ever happened to 
spirit on campus was the W&J raids of last year. 
Thats one time that I saw all these separate groups 
pulling together as one against something else. 
Thats whats necessary for spirit. One single group 
of 3000 students pulling fo'r the same end. A gang 
war against W&J is not the answer, but it helps.
Search your heart. Why do you ignore the other 
guy? At a college in New England (not HaEvard), 
every upper-classman is expected to say good morn
ing or hello or something to every freshman he 
sees for the first few months of school each year. 
After a while these Hellos become automatic. 
You get to know the other guy . . . and youll 
pull WITH him for the school.
Maybe our answer is to be found in Freshman 
Week. Heres where we have a fresh start each year. 
Maybe its time we decided to make a serious fact 
out of that week ... or just drop the farce that 
it is now altogether.
By Luis de la Macorra
Joe Szewc has wet feet. That means too that 
he has wet socks. I should know, after all I am 
his roommate. It takes a guy with a big head to 
think that he can fill the space Under The Skibo 
Table. Uncle Mash is this guy. Dont you worry; 
Joe has one eye open, but he cant see very well 
with it. You might call it short-sightedness.
I am positive that no one wants any donuts, 
cake, Regent pop, sarsaparilla, or any thing 
I am sure you can have it all, including my 
portion. Attention Doc Hall: If this fellow comes 
to you saying he is sick, you can be sure that he 
is rightindigestion. Just give him a strong laxa
tive. Si ... Si ... Si .. .
* * * %
Well, although Scotch and Soda tried, the S.P.C.A. 
didnt like the idea of Tech students enjoying a 
bullfight. As it was told a few weeks go, Scotch 
and Soda started to plan for a big publicity stunt. 
They thought that the students at Tech would like 
to see a real bullfight. So they were going to get 
a real but small bull, and they planned to fight it 
on a Saturday afternoon. All this was going to be 
done without hurting the bull at all; maybe the 
bullfighter was the one that was going to get hurt. 
They were going to have a queen parade and 
everything, but there existed a little problem, the 
S.P.C.A. had to like the whole idea. But they didnt. 
Too bad.
And so I must say hasta la vista and buena suerte 
to all. * * *
Nuts And Onions
Por: The Mexican Rattle Snake
Very Little Short StoriesThe school is plan^ 
ning to build a five story parking lot. It will have 
an adjacent theater and they promise to show only 
French movies. It will also have a restaurant, to 
be called Le Skibbe which will have a French 
chef, featuring Poule avec Pomme de Ter at 
student prices . . . S & S has been trying to hire 
the famous and illustrious Mr. Beltz, but it was 
impossible, for he has gone to California . . . 
There are still some people that get dizzy on 
fizzwater, especially if it come from Chathams 
distillery . . . Auditor has been trying to take over > 
Monitor! Ha! Ha! . . .
WRCTs radio controlled buggy is going to have 
a built-in TV set . . . After the last snow Storm, 
the Printing Department proved that they want 
to be incorporated in the P&D Department, or 
maybe take over? . . . What a Venus those guys 
built. Wow! . . . There has been a rumor that Hey* 
Fi-Oh is planning to organize a special calling 
service. They plan to set a few people along Mag
gie Murph street, and as soon as they see a little 
white motorcycle or a big black car, they will 
send someone to all the classes so the commuters 
will be able to move their cars before they get a 
new windshield sticker.
"THE HOUSEMOTHER THINKS ITS NICE OF YOU W TO TAKE AH imtST IN OUR YARD
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone MUseum 2-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9846, for advertising and subscription rates call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ............................................................................Robert Russell
Business Manager ................................................................................Vic Shiry
News Editor.........................................................................Marjo King
Sports Editor......... ............................Tom WrightCopy Editor................................................................. Richard FoxFeatures Editor. .....................................................-. .Stephanie Mackay
Assistant Business ManagerMarty Ostroff. Advertising ManagerBob Sorkin. Circulation ManagerHarley Bembach. ReportersEvelyn Alessio, Marlene Daehnert. Sally Day, Lynn Porter Carman, Betsy Kuhn, En Harriet Chang, Pat Mitchell, Anne Mehler, Lois Griffin, Barbara Hoenstine, Ann Forest, Joan Coprich, Jo Todes, Anna Hatzfeld, Susie Stryker, Grayce McAllister, Fay Fisher, Carol Sooy, Nancie Redpath, Gene Anderson, Bob Jack, A1 Federowicz, Arthur Marino, Bob Smith, Joe Batson. Features StaffJoe Szewc, Luis de laMacorra. Sports StaffBob Hoppe, Dick Swaney, Gerald Pittler, Jim Lacey, Don McClelland, Dick Walowit. PhotographersPhil Rathke, Stan Zawadowicz, John Alexander. Art Staff Mike Barkman, Dave Stea. Copy StaffEd Rogers, Bill Mowry, Ed Holsten, Jack Walker, Wade Biggs. Office StaffCarol Millsom, Mary Langdon, Anne Barnes, Joan Seidel, Ruth Knott, Betty Krogh. Copy RunnersJim Kelly, Vic Oburg. Circulation StaffIra Levine, Jerry Kreuzer, Robert Peters. Advertising Staff 
Herbert Kreindler, Alan Hodel, Myron Wagmeister, A1 Goldstein.
Entered as second class matter on Octot>er 4, 1907. at the Post Office at Pittsburgh. Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rates of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College per year.
J. Paul Sheedy* Was An lldder Failure Till 
Wildroot Cream-0il Gave Him Confidence
?! beyt were having a bull session In Sheedy room. *'Its no yoke,** 
beefed Sheedy. **Heifer-y girl I ask for a date turns me down flat. Then 
Sheedys roommate spoke up: Theres good moos topight J. Paul. Try 
tome of my Wildroot Cream-Oil on those cowlicks.
Sheedy did and now hes the cream of the campus.
Wildroot keeps his hair handsome and healthy looking 
the way Nature intended.. .neat but not greasy. Contains 
the heart of Lanolin, the very best part of Natures finest 
heir and scalp conditioner. Get Wildroot Cream-Oil,
America largest selling hair tonic;. Ia bottles or un
breakable tubes. Gives you confidence...you look your 
best. Theres no udder hair tonic like it.
+ 0/131 So. Harrit Hill Rd., WilliamsvilU, N. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil
gives you confidence
-ARROWfirst in fashion
SHIRT I  TICS  SLACKS
Check this new collar style 
- the ARROW Glen
A<
Heres a broadcloth shirt with features 
please the college man with an eye 
for style. The collar, (button-down, of 
course), is a shorter, neater-looking mode]. 
The fine broadcloth cools you throughout 
the warm days ahead. The trim checks 
are available in 7 color combinations, in$5.00.
Arrow repp always 
an Arrow shirt just 
Tie, $2.50.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 27, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPa 5
Rockets Top KS In Finals
The Rockets, a perennial power 
jn IM basketball, continued their 
mastery over the Kappa Sigs as 
they defeated them for the second 
year in a row to retain the campus 
championship.
gun for the Rockets was 
Charlie Goetz, who controlled both 
backboards in the second half 
and finished as the games top 
scorer. Larry Cassett found the 
range on long shots and drives, 
and it was this combination that 
made things tough for Kappa Sig. 
The Rockets were handicapped by 
the absence of Ace Adams, but 
Goetz and Cassett ably made up 
for his loss.
laThe Kappa Sigs came into the 
game with a much smoother work
ing team, and in the beginning it 
appeared as though it would be 
their ball game all the way. It 
would be hard to pick out a single 
good man for them but it can be 
said that Jack Keim saved the 
day for the Clyde Street quintet 
on more than one occasion when 
he fielded a crucial two points at 
the right time.
' Many Fouls
The game was marked by an 
unusually large number of fouls, 
but the referees seemed very com
petent. Five players acquired four 
or more personals but only one, 
Mike Pascarella of *Kappa Sig, 
fouled out. The game was decided 
on fouls, as both teams finished 
with fifteen field goals.
Kappa Sig took an early lead in 
thU| first quarter, but midway 
through the period Goetz and Cas
sett started hitting to give he 
Rockets a 14-11 bulge at the buz
zer. The Kappa Sigs came back in 
the second period with their best 
display of team work and the end 
result was a 24-23 halftime score 
in their favor.
The Rockets regained the lead
ine KocKers im \~nampionsmp i earn
the way to eliminate the Trojans, 
54-29, with Goetz and Gat high 
scorers for their teams. Kappa Sig 
bested Citcom in a free-scoring 
contest, 68-48. Mehalko contrib
uted 17 points in a losing cause, 
but this was offset but KSs Hyams 
and Keim, with 17, and Montini 
with 15.
Rockets I Kappa Sigma
G F Fts.| G F Pts.
Hoey 0 2 2|Pascarella 2 5 9
lirosik 3 1 7 Brown 10 2
Harder 0 0 0|Kejm 6 1 13
Sauereisen 0 1 l|Moog 0 0 0
Gojetz 6 5 17|Hyams 3 0 6
Cassett 5 6 16|Braken 0 0 0
Savio 1 0 2jSchopmann 2 15
Saxton 0 0 0
Montini 15 7
15 15 45115 12 42
7 Titles Won 
In IM Scene
In the past two weeks, no less 
than seven titles were decided in 
IM action. The Rockets topped the 
Kappa Sigs to take the basket
ball crown for the second con
secutive year.
Pi Kappa Alpha topped SAE, 
ATO and the Obelisks in 
to the bridge title. They defeated 
the Obelisks 10-6 in the cham
pionship match. Less defeated 
Kuhn to emerge champion in table 
tennis singles, and then teamed 
with Larry Cassett to take the 
doubles with a victory over the 
duo of Kuhn and Rugheimer.
Co-rec badminton, started this 
year, proved a popular sport as 
14 couples entered the tourna
ment. The finals provided a broth
er act as Mac Rugheimer and 
Carol Trammel won over Jack 
Rugheimer and Sharon Lease.
The independents took team 
honors in the rifle competition and 
John Herr, one of the nations 
leading scholastic riflemen, had 
the highest individual score. The 
results.
Team Score
Independents .......................... 1103
Beta Theta Pi ........................ 1078
Kappa Sigma ........................ 1013
Individual 
Herr, Beta Theta Pi............. 291
Schuler, Sigma Nu............... 282
Plugge, Beta Theta Pi .... 282
Foul Shooting:
Foul shooting showed the Delta 
Upsilon team winning and Coffen 
of Phi Kappa taking individual 
honors. The results:
Team Score
Delta Upsilon.......................... 378
Phi Kappa .............................. 372
Sigma.......................... 365
Theta Pi ........................ 358
Individual
Phi Kappa ................ 88
Eisbacher, Delta Upsilon .. 87
Swift, Sigma No .................. 85
Schopmann, Kappa Sigma . 85
Dave Harrington 
And Ralph Mocker 
Receive Honors
Ralph Mocker of the basketball 
team and David Harrington of 
the swimming team have been 
selected by their teammates as 
the Most Valuable athlete in their 
sport.
Ralph, a senior mechanical en
gineer, has been a standout for 
the basketball team for the past 
four seasons. David, a junior phy
sicist, has been a consistent win
ner in the 200 yd. individual med
ley, in addition to swimming in 
the 400 yd. relay.
So Good to yo
So Quick on
<arry Cassett of the Rockets 
bafttles two Kappa Sigs for the 
ball in last Fridays game.
early in the second half and con
trolled the ball throughout the 
| rest of the game. The contest be
gan to take on the aspects of a 
real professional tournament as 
the ref had to halt the game and 
invite manager A1 Sisca to take a 
seat in the stands. Jack-in-the-box 
Sisca was up and down and yellin&at the refs so much that the 
fa began to think that he was 
| the big attraction, instead of what 
was going on on the court.
Kappa Sig tied the game up 
once and even regained the lead, 
I but the shooting of Cassett and 
| Goetz proved too much for the 
Big Reds.
Prelim Action
First round action in the tour
nament produced the following resujg: DU 39, TX 38; Rockets 62, 
Ban 35; DTD 77, APO 31; Citcom 
78, Cbelisks 63. KS, ATO, the 
Gems, and the Trojans received 
yes. The quarter finals produced 
some interesting results. The 
Rockets spurted to an easy victory 
Ver the Gems after a close three 
Quarters, and Citcom upset ATO 
y 42-39. KS won handily over 
'he Delts by 77-63, and the Tro
ians topped DU 44-42 in overtime, 
,^s|| half court shot by Kemp 
with only seconds remain
ing broke a tie of 42-42. In semi
nal action, the Rockets led all
I. SUPERIOR TASTE
So good to your taste because of L&Ms 
superior tobaccos. Richer, tastierespe
cially selected for filter smoking. For the 
flavor you want, heres the filteryou need.
RELAX WITH
(9 fcCGtit & Mrus Toiacco Co,mVrBIG RED LETTER DAY!
2. SUPERIOR FILTER
So quick on the draw! Yes, the flavor 
comes cleanthrough L&Ms all white 
Miracle Tip. Pure white inside, pure 
white outside for cleaner,better smoking.
ft,
JGetrr

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 27, 1956
over, Sara Zide was declared wo
mens champion and Walt Jacobus 
captured the mens crown. Fol
lowing the fencing final, Ray 
Matthews, the Steelers mainstay
at halfback, presented the tro
phies won in this years IM com
petition. After the second half, the 
night was finished with a dance 
featuring Bob Rawthornes band.
KS, Rockets Place Two Large Crowd
Each On All Star Team
The champion Rockets and runner-up Kappa Sigma squads dom
inated the 1956 intramural all-star team, each placing two men on 
the five-man all-star contingent. Charlie Goetz and Bill Ace Adams 
represented the Rockets, while Jack Keim and Bill Hyams were 
named from Kappa Sigma. Kempi----------------------------------------------------------
Beall, star of the Tartan League 
championship Trojans, rounded 
out the all-campus selection.
Most Valuable Player
The all-star balloting resulted 
in Bill Ace Adams, play-maker 
of the champion Rockets, being 
chosen the most valuable player 
of the 1955-56 IM cage season. 
Adams, an ex-serviceman in his 
first year at Tech, seems to have 
been a busy man this basketball 
season. Besides playing for the 
Rockets, he competed on another 
local cage team: thus being un
able to play in the championship 
game for the Rockets because of 
a tournament in West Virginia 
also held last Friday night. Ace 
is also a star football player and 
started at quarterback for Tech in 
many of last falls games.
In addition to the all-school 
team, the in;ramural panel, con
sisting of the intramural board, 
managers club, and faculty super
visors. picked all-star teams in 
each of the six leagues.
Lillierose .
Price .....
Bowen , . ,
Tartan
Mehalko ..
Visconti ...
Marr.........
Gat ___t...................... Trojans
Beall .........
Plaid
... Trojans
Adams ...
Goetz ___
Moore
Hepler......... PKA
Hoey .........
Scot *
English .............. BTP
Lang ................ KS
Gentile .... TechGems
Kovitz ...................SN
Bergren . . .............. SN
At IM Night
IM night proved a success, with 
the varied activities keeping the 
many spectators on the edges of 
their seats.
The night began with a hilari
ous basketball game between the 
WAA and the Intramural Board. 
The IM team wore boxing gloves 
to equalize the contest but per
formed surprisingly well under 
the handicap. They were sparked 
by Wayne Nathanson, Bob Kouril, 
and Bruce Bowen, who was also 
hindered by a huge hat. Womens 
rules were  used, but the WAA 
still found the IM team too tough, 
as the men controlled both boards 
and walked off with an easy vic
tory.
The Rockets  Kappa Sigma 
championship contest followed 
the WAAIM board game. At 
halftime the school fencing finals 
were held. The great difference 
between this fencing and the John 
Wayne type of swashbuckling 
amused the spectators, but the 
gym action at times took on the 
aspects of a genuine blood feud. 
When the clashing of foils was.
QootzrQoia, does idoWt&Ui/j
'ou,
When the songs are light 
And the fire's bright 
For real delighthave a CAMEL!
-MWr-fk*
bure pleasure. |
It's a psychological fact: 
Pleasure helps your disposition.
If you're a smoker, remember 
 more people get more 
plea psaurlea from Camels 
than from any other cigarette!
No other cigarette is so 
rich-tasting, yet so mild!
Catad
 1 ft.rwi trtwo C... N. O.
4  * * rn # m # ft4" # *  # **#** f * 0  f 9 t {  IMI 8
AH Campus
Goetz.................................
Adams ..............................
Beall . ?.............................
Keim .................................
Hyams ...............................
All League 
Kiltie
Montini ............................
Keim .................................
Hyams ...............................
Branscome ......................
Norman ...........................
Tech
Dobrian .............................
Roy .....................................
Richie ...............................
Anderson ........................
Recker ...............................
Skibo
Amdur ..............................
sparkling with quick 
refreshment... and its so pure and wholesome 
naturally friendly to your figure. Let it do 
thingsgood thingsfor you.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
5722 Central Ave. HI 1-7011
Coke" is a registered trade-mark. 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
Rockets 
Rockets 
Trojans 
... KS 
___ KS
ATO 
ATO 
ATO 
. TX 
ATO
BSR
Action In the basketball game between the IM Board and the 
WAA at Intramural Night last Friday. 

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 27, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPagre 7
DICK FETTER joined G.E. in 1947 after 
receiving a B.S. from Bucknell Uni
versity, and serving 32 months in the 
Air Corps. At G.E. he completed the 
Business Training Course, class of 49.
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor .............................................................................................. Emily Muhic
Reporter ......................................... ............................... John Van Holt, Jr.
Evening School Newman Club 
Hears Priest From Duquesne
4) 1On Sunday, March 11, 1956, Newman Club members met at a 
meeting opened by president John Van Holt. Plans were made for 
a swimming party to be held on Saturday, March 17, at 8:30 p.m. at 
the Carnegie Tech swimming pool. PIFCSO members at Pitt and Mt. 
Mercy will also join the group.^---------------------------------------------------------
After swimming there will be re
freshments and dancing in the 
Black Cat Lounge.
On March 25 at 7:30 Father 
Duffy of Duquesne University 
sj^ke to the PIFCSO members, 
aVR a buffet style dinner fol
lowed. Father Raymond Schultz, 
Assistant Pastor at St. Margaret 
Greentree, will speak about the 
BJessed Mother. On Sunday, 
April 22 at 10:00 the group will 
attend Mass at St. Pauls Cathe
dral and then have breakfast at 
the Cathedral High School.
Plaque Donated
Mr. Joe Bonk, a member of Day 
SAool Newman Club, was intro
duced and explained the meaning 
and purpose of the Middle At
lantic Province and the Federated 
National Newman Clubs. Mr. Van 
Holt made the motion we affiliate 
our group with these organiza
tions, and Miss Francis Dubaich 
seconded the motion.
A voluntary contribution was 
taken up for the donation to the 
erection of a plaque honoring Car
dial John Henry Newman. The 
pmque will be placed in the Im
maculate Conception Cathedral in 
Washington, D. C.
The Middle Atlantic Province 
convention will be held at Penn 
State on April 13, 14, 15. The Na
tional Newman Club Federation 
will have their onvention the last
Evening Sorority 
Abcepts Member 
At Initiation Tea
Phi Gamma Pi Sorority held 
an Initiation Tea* on March 11, 
1956, at Carnegie Union. Miss 
[Audrey Wiskow, president, pre
sided at the meeting. Mrs. Emily 
Muhic was pledge mistress and 
Miss Myrtle Curtiss* was the 
pledge accepted into the sorority.
Cleo Mustakis acted as the 
I big sister and pinned Miss CurItiss. Mrs. Schwartz, sponsor, welI corned Miss Curtiss, and then all 
homed in the recitation of the 
|>pdge and singing of the song.
An election of officers was held, 
land the following were elected: 
Misses Sandra Dunn, president; 
ICleo Mustakis, vice-president; 
|Mary Alice Chilleo, correspondsecretary; Evelyn Kaney, rejling secretary, Theresa DeJtinTJ, treasurer; Mrs. Lana Colmar, 
[historian, and Emily Muhic, pub
licity.
Plans were made for the EasParty to be held on March 
1956, for 30 orphans' from the 
loly Family Institute. Miss Mar
garet Cole, a day student at Tech, 
will present her puppet show.
The girls enjoyed seeing the 
redding pictures of Mr. and Mrs. 
/j^>r Colmar. Mrs. Colmar was 
^ former Miss Lana Knezac.
Professor Johnson 
To Be Speaker 
At Hillel Brunch
At the Hillel Brunch, Sunday, 
April 8, 12:00-2:30 at the Car
negie Union, Professor W. H. E. 
Johnson will speak about Jewish 
life in the Soviet Union. There 
has been much speculation about 
this subject, and friany erroneous 
ideas seem to prevail. It is hoped 
that Professor Johnsons talk will 
provide a better understanding of 
the minority situation in the 
USSR. All interested students, re
gardless of religious affiliation, 
are invited. Night school students 
are especially welcome.
The planning committee has al
so scheduled several other events 
! for the year. On April 21 there 
will be an installation of officers 
of August in Chicago. party. It is hoped that the entire
The movie City Within A City , Jewish student body of CIT will
Thistle
Any night school students 
desiring to order a 1956 
Thistle may do so in he night 
school registration office by 
sending $5.00 to the Subscrip
tion Manager, Box 259, Intra'tjiool mail. When ordering by 
'>>1 indicate an address to 
"'bich we may send your 
book.
was shown, and it was a complete 
surprise to many in attendance 
since it was not about the Vatican 
City but St. Francis Hospital, 
Pittsburgh. It was a very inter
esting colored picture showing 
various activities at the Hospital. 
Future plans call for a modern 
addition to the building to take 
care of the many patients who 
must now utilize solariums and 
closed-in porches since there are 
so many patients there. The meet
ing closed with prayer.
be there. On May 13 a picnic 
for all Jewish students is sched
uled. Please pin any further sug
gestions on the Hillel Bulletin 
Board in Skibo.
Patronize Our Advertisers
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
COLLEGE STUDENTS WANTED!
More Than 1000 
Resort Hotel Jobs
-OPENOUR LISTINGS GIVE COMPLETE INFORMA
TION ON ATTRACTIVE OPENINGS AVAILABLE TO 
COLLEGE STUDENTS FROM TOP A.A.A. APPROVED 
RESORT HOTELS.
WE CAN TELL YOU THE NAMES OF RESORT 
HOTELS WHO HAVE WRITTEN US TELLING OF 
THEIR NEEDS FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS THIS 
SUMMER, AND THE TYPES AND NUMBER OF 
LUCRATIVE JOBS THAT THESE HOTELS HAVE 
OPEN FOR YOU.
THESE RESORT HOTELS WOULD 
HAVE YOUR APPLICATION SOON!
LIKE TO
Box 470
For Complete Information 
Send Only $1.00 In Cash To
MR. ROBERT MILLER
College Information Service
Greenville, Pa.
What young people are doing at General Electric
Young manager 
handles finances 
for building of 
$5,000,000 plant
In the next ten years, the demand for General 
Electric industrial heating equipment will 
double To meet this demand, a giant new 
plant (model at right) is being built at 
Shelbyville, Indiana.
The plant will cost $5,000,000, and the 
man responsible for handling finances for 
the entire job is 32-year-old R. E. Fetter.
Fetters job is important, responsible
Dick Fetters work as Financial Manager of 
the Department began long before General 
Electric started building the plant. He and 
his group first had to estimate probable op
erating costs and predict whether the plant 
would be profitable.
Now, during construction, Fetters chief 
concern is keeping track of all the expenses 
on this multimillion-dollar project. When 
the plant is completed, he will set up a 
complete financial section and manage 
everything from tax, cost, and general ac
counting to payrolls, budgets and measure
ments, and internal auditing.
25,000 college graduates at General Electric
This is a big job. Fetter was readied for it 
in a careful step-by-step program of devel
opment. Like Fetter, each of the 25,000 college-graduate employees is given his chance 
to grow, to find the work he does best, and 
to realize his full potential. For General 
Electric has long believed this: When young, 
fresh minds are given freedom to make prog
ress, everybody benefitsthe individual, the 
company, and the country.
Progress Is Our Most Important Product
GENERAL ^ELECTRIC

---------------------------------------------------

rCo-ed Swim 
Classes Claimed 
Immoral 
See Page 3
Tartan 
Advertisers 
Patronized 
See Page 23
VjDL. 49No. 21A CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Carn viruv^n
Moscow Symphony To Be At Carnival
TUES., MARCH 27, 1956
Leftist Group To Whomp Up 
s, Storm For CIT Carnivalites
Internationality in the Atomic Age is the theme for Spring Car
nival this year. As always, competition will occupy a major part of 
the weekend activity. It was felt that the faculty egg throwing con
test was undignified and too messy, so this year.a shillelagh throw
ing contest is scheduled for Friday^ 
afternoon. This may affect frater
nity chaperon arrangements so 
each fraternity is urged to con
tract for alternates in case of unard circumstances.
The plank jousting is to take 
place at the junction of the Alle
gheny and Monongahela rivers, 
where logs will be used instead of 
planks because of the difficulty of 
keeping a plank with two frater
nity men on it afloat. Girls are 
also urged to arrange for alter
nates Saturday night as the 
weather report indicates flood 
stage due early Saturday. The 
s^ority hog-calling contest is to 
be held at Carnegie Music Hall in 
order that each contestant may 
have the advantage of a fair and 
good acoustical medium for her 
performance.
Two Bands 
The Spring Carnival Committee 
is negotiating with the London 
Philharmonic to play in the Wom
ens Gym for those jazz enthu
siasts who do not care for the supI^time music of the Moscow 
Symphony. Intermission awards 
will be presented by N. Bulganin, 
the leader of the band. The 
awards consist of Emmy and Os
cars left over from the recent TV 
and Motion Picture Academy 
Awards which the Spring Car
nival Committee was able to buy 
at a discount much better than 
the one Balfours offered.
Sunday has been felt in previo; years to be an anticlimax of 
an otherwise stimulating weekend 
when actually it should be the 
focal point of the weekend in or
der that everyone may return to 
classes Monday ready to settle 
down to study and serious work.
Unique Finale 
Therefore the Spring Carnival 
Committee has made arrange
ments with the traveling troupe of 
engineers at Saxonburg to create 
wag-bedecked atom or hydrogen 
(depending on which is in season 
at the time, as our fine committee 
is ever watchful of the budget) 
bomb which members of the SkyBo Flying Club will detonate over 
the cut to the accompaniement 
of the Kiltie Bands rendition of 
songs from Carousel, thus bring
ing Spring Carnival weekend to 
the spectacular finish it deserves.
-------Rodeo Merrimac 
Great New Hit 
On Station WTRC
WCTR, the undergraduate ro
deo station here at Tech, has come 
up with another last. For nine 
hours last Saturday night, they cov
ered all'ten harmonics of 600 Kc 
lijith an attractive piece of gobblectegook, called Rodeo Merrimac. 
In a Natrat poll yesterday, 90% 
of the student body claimed that 
it was milder, 8% called it Fullypacked, 1% warned, Dont make 
a wave! and the remaining 1% 
allowed as how it was far su
perior to the NBC imitation, Jani 
tor.
The WRTC executive board was 
not available for comment.
Pan Heel Exposed 
In Malicious Plot 
Against WCTU
In a daring raid upon a secret 
meeting of Pan Heel, this re
porter, while posing as a statue, 
was able to gain shocking infor
mation which heretofore has never 
been made public.
At this meeting, the social 
chairman of SAP, Sigma Alpha 
Pie, threatened to boycott Pan 
Heel if it continued the drive to 
bring WCTU under its jurisdiction. 
The social chairman of SAP, who 
wishes her name withheld for se
curity reasons, feels that the 
WCTUs influence is not to be' 
desired at Friday night parties.
However, the WCTU move is 
directly in line with Pan Heels 
planning board. This group feels 
that tea is a much more sophis
ticated beverage than others in 
vogue and that the women of Pan 
Heel are losing their poise by 
attending functions where certain 
drinks are served. It was even 
rumored that Pan Heel may boy
cott Techs Greek men if they 
persist in present party habits.
A move was also made to limit 
rushing to four semesters in order 
that women being rushed might 
graduate in five years.
Tartan Tiddley ers 
Triumvh In Third 
Team Tournament
By Clyde Seigle
A hush fell over the 25,000 ex
cited fans. The massive Skibo gym 
took on the air of an expectant 
father, quiet but tense. Coach Crel 
Matsley shifted uneasily as big 
Floyd Rocker stepped to the shoot
ing line. Everyone knew that 
Floydie had to sink this tiddley. 
The cool right tiddley of the Tar
tans took his stance and winked it 
from 36 inches out. A devastating 
roar rose up from the huddled 
masses there enthonged while 
meek and mild Coach Matsley 
shifted uneasily.
This was the breaking point in 
the big NCASA tourney, for Car
negie Tech then winked on to the 
championship and glory. The ef
forts of Moody Dudey from Dukane and his prize center tiddley, 
Sihuge Grin, couldnt hold back 
the Tartan tide. Rockers wink was 
followed up by quick winks from 
Allen Crank and Clyde Boyd. It 
was all over and 25,000 screaming 
fans swamped their victorious 
winkers while even tempered Crel 
Matsley shifted uneasily.
For Dukane Dunks, Mickey 
Wintergreen was high scorer with 
31 points while little Waynie 
Knave was high for Tech. Mickey 
hit most of his winks from the six 
inch line and rolled a couple about 
the cup before they dropped. Waynickins hit most of his tiddleys 
from around the 12 inch mark and 
had some beautiful left handers 
from 18 and 19 out.
Lecture
Do you wonder where the 
yellow went? Attend Dr. 
Grawnes lecture next Tues
day at 11:30 in Room 106 Fine 
Arts Building. Slides will be 
shown. Bring a flashlight if 
you wish to partake of the 
popcorn being sold by A Phi O 
at the front of the room as the 
school is not responsible for 
broken legs incurred in trips 
down the stairs.
Seigel Award 
To Sobolewski
Pictured above are Coach Mel 
Cratsley and his budding young 
sophomore from Steubenville, 
Ohio, Frank Sobolewski. As one of 
Mels Mighty Midgets, Sobo is 
expected to carry on in the finest 
tradition of the corps next year. 
Here he is seen receiving the 
Bernie J. Seigel Memorial Award 
for service and outstanding sports
manship.
On the night of December 17,
1955, Sobo engaged the enemy 
(namely the Quantico Marines) in 
combat and sank his ball in the 
right pocket, killed two of the 
oppositions peas and ran the ta
ble while under deadly fire of 
Robert Burns cigars and a Regent 
pop commercial. During this time, 
Sobo remained calm and after 
running the table, thanked the 
boys for a pleasant evening. To 
Sobo we say thanks for a job well 
done.
Trauma Department 
Finds New Technique
By George Spelvin
The Carnegie Tech Department of Trauma has announced a 
brand-new method of approaching the problem of building a char
acter for use on-stage or off. It was developed by Professor Bridey 
O Stanislav of the University of Pittsburgh, and announced here at
----------------------------------------------------------?Tech today by Trauma Depart1-, . -r w ment Head, Harry Bet-yah. BasedEvening Honorary 
Hears Of Parking 
At Pleasant Social
Last Thursday evening, Febru
ary 16, the evening school honor
ary organization, Tom Eta Pi, helda very enjoyable social in the 
basement of Machinery Hall. 
Everyone who was there had a 
very enjoyable time. The meet
ing started with games at 6:30 
p.m. and they were a lot of fun. 
Prizes were won by Vernal Equi
nox, Wanda Pushcart, and Elmer 
Scurvy.
After this very enjoyable intro
duction, the speaker for the eve
ning was introduced. Professor 
William Robb of Carnegie Tech 
Parking Lot Department spoke on 
the parking situation. However, 
evening parking presents a special 
problem due to the high concen
tration of cars in Schenley Park 
during those hours. Action shots 
featured his main points. His talk 
was very good.
Refreshments
Refreshments were served in 
the Park Mansions snack bar by 
a committee consisting of Wanda 
Pushcart, Vernal Equinox, and 
Elmer Scurvy. Featured were One 
Ton Soup from the Teagarden, 
White Tower hamburgeis, and 
Regent pop.
It was announced that the next 
meeting will be held. It will in
clude some impromptu entertain
ment by the entertainment com
mittee which should warm every
body up and will be very enjoy
able. After these festivities, the 
remainder of the group will leave 
the cozy atmosphere of Machin
ery Hall chimney and go down to 
the boiler room to see an enjoyably illustrated talk on cremation. 
A good time should be had by all.
The meeting was closed by the 
president at 8:30 p.m. Those pre
sent included: Elmer Scurvy,
Wanda Pushcart, and Vernal 
Equinox. Everyone who was there 
had a marvelous time. It is unfor
tunate that more students didnt 
attend.
on Professor OStanislavs nowinfamous age-regression experi
ments, the new method guaran
tees that any actor can now as
sume the characteristics of any 
famous person in history. Further
more, it is ideal for use by the 
student who is bored with his 
every-day uninteresting, off-stage 
personality.
A Trauma Department student 
must no longer THINK he is 
George Washington, Julius Caesar, 
or Alexander the Great ... he 
can BE that man.
When interviewed by a Natrat 
reporter last night, Department 
Head Bet-yah said: You Bet-yah! 
This is better than color Tele
vision! In New York, famed grad 
Junkie Greason said: Bet-yahs 
done it again!
Last night, Professor OStanislav, creator of the new method, 
stated: What hath God wrought?
In other Trauma Department 
events . . . Stage Movement Pro
fessor, Cedric Kiddie-car has de
clared: Walking around on the 
stage is for the birds! Our actors 
require roller-skates to achieve 
that free-and-easy, flowing sensa
tion that feels so good.
The Man Behind The Towel
He is referred to variously as Frank, Rufus Cannon, or the keeper 
of the tiddleys.
Indispensible Man 
Adds Aestheticism 
To Locker Room
By J. Smurd
In my travels as National For
ensic League field organizer, I have 
encountered many interesting 
phenomena of the college scene. 
One of recent development is that 
of the gymnasium complex, which 
has reached great heights of 
specialization in recent yeors.
In particular, I recall an idyllic 
week spent at the South West 
Enfield Athletic Teachers, where 
the students devoted all their time 
to acquiring a mastery of the pro
fessional sports. Absent were the 
academic halls supported by ivy 
and the fraternity houses held 
together by the threat of higher 
house bills if they collapsed.
In place of these venerable in
stitutions there was a single huge 
gymnasium, held together by that 
essential cog, that indispensable 
man, the towel dispenser. I be
came well acquainted with this 
fellow, Rufus Cannon, during my 
stay at SWEAT and realized how 
he complemented the colege, both 
in the practical and the aesthetic 
sense of his work. A master psy
chologist was he, who gave the 
students free rein of the facilities 
and received in return their warm 
admiration and friendship.
Nothing surpassed the sensation 
(Continued on Page 2)
B i rd-W a tellers
There will be a meeting of 
the Ornithological Society on 
next Monday at 5:30 a.m. in 
the Class of 1927 Tree. Elec
tions will be held.
L
