M. M. D. MUSICAL CLUBS 
HOME CONCERT 
FRIDAY NIGHT
VOL. XIV. No. 25.3h? daran
i ______________________________
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.
; ALUMNI DANCE 
t UNION 
FRIDAY NIGHT
APRIL 14, 1920.. .
Complete Program Announced 
for Campus Week Celebration
Campus Week will begin on Thurs
day, May 13th, at one oclock with a 
General Assembly at Carnegie Music 
Hall. This will be followed by Quali
fication and Tap Day exercises on the 
athletic field. In the evening, from 
7:30 to 11, the school will be on ex
hibition to give the alumni a chance to 
see what we are donig; to wish that 
they were back at the old grind again, maybe.
Friday, from 9:30 to 12:30 the inter
class contests and stunts on the field 
will make a secondary matter of the 
contests soon to be held in Europe. 
The faculty-senior baseball game will 
follow at 1:30 with the Geneva game 
later in the afternoon. From 5 oclock 
to 8 odock will be a busy time in
deedan R. O. T. C. parade to Flag
staff hill; M. M. D. May Dancesal
ways interesting; a lawn fete on Mel
lon lawn; a Band Concert; and open 
house at all fraternities and clubs.
M. M. MUSICAL CLUB 
CONCERT FRIDAY NIGHT
The home concert of the Margaret 
Morrison Musical Clubs is to he given 
next Friday night in the theatre at 
Design School. This is the first and 
only concert to be given by the clubs 
at home and has been long anticipated 
by M. M. The program will consist 
of numbers by the Glee Club and by 
the Stringers. Several solos and nov
elties will feature the program, the 
sixth number in particular is to be, it 
sepms, a wonderful one. What it will 
be is at present a deep secret. There 
will also be several readings on the program.
The next best thing to the musical 
feast is the formal dance which will 
follow the concert. Maggios wellknown orchestra is to furnish music 
from 9:30 to 2. Special emphasis on 
the TWO. Several novelty dances, 
and lots of moonlights are promised. 
Refreshments will be served at mid
night
Taken altogether, the evening of 
April 16 is going to be a red letter 
one in the annals of M. M. Those of 
our fellow students lucky enough to 
be invited to participate may con
gratulate themselves. The whole 
school is backing up the clubs which 
are certainly deserving of praise for 
the work they have done, the crown
ing effort of which is to be the home 
concert.
That is not allfrom 8:15 to 9:30 
there will be a play in the open air 
theater, and from 9:30 until one, in 
both the Design Foyer and the Union 
Hall, a dance will be held that will 
make the Junior Proms fade away in
to darkness.
On Saturday the 15th, at 10 oclock 
the Alumni are going to show the 
varsity that they havent forgotten 
how to play base-ball. At 11 oclock, 
the Tech inter-scholastic and the Tech 
Geneva Dual Meet will be held on 
Schenley Oval. At three oclock Barnum and Bailey automatically goes 
out of businessa Tech circus con
sisting of Tech clowns, side-shows, 
peanuts, etc., will naturally become 
famous. The evening is given over 
to a band concert, a Tech inter-schol
astic Smoker in the Union, an M. M.
D. entertainment and Alumni ban
quets. How does that sound for fun 
and Tech spirit?
FROLIC OF THE LABORERS HELD BY INDUSTRIES
. M. D. ATHLETIC ASSN 
ARRANGES MAY DAY FETE
At a meeting of the Athletic Asso
ciation Thursday plans for May Day 
were discussed. An outline of the 
scheme for May Day was given by 
Miss Coleman. Many changes are to 
be inaugurated this year and May 
Day bids fair to be the best ever cele
brated. The date is Friday of Home 
Coming Week. The ceremonies are 
to be held this year on Flag-Staff 
Hill with the audience on the higher 
slope "overlooking the dancers. The 
selection of a May Queen is to be by 
popular vote this week at the meet
ing. Isabel Carseman, Myrtle Goe 
and Agnes Piper were nominated.
The usual procession will be held 
and followed by dances by the four 
classes. The feature of the May Day 
celebration is to be the Masque of the 
Fairies in which the aesthetic dancing 
of the Junior and Senior classes will 
be featured. The present plans are 
but tentative and many alterations 
and changes will be made to insure 
the most beautiful fete yet held.
The matter of recognition pins for 
girls earning fifty points for athletics 
was discussed. A committee is now 
designing a pin. The matter of fi
nances needed to carry this plan 
through was also discussed. A dance 
to be given under the auspices of the
A. A. to raise funds for this purpose 
was proposed by the chairman of the 
meeting, Anita OConnor a,nd a mo
tion to hold a dance for this purpose 
was passed. A committee to arrange 
a date and other details was appointed 
by the chair. The committee is Bar
bara Endres, Margaret Griffin and 
Jean Aiken.
SOPHS ENTERTAIN SENIORS
The Sophomore basketball team, 
this years champion, tendered a 
luncheon at McCreerys Saturday to 
the Senior team which they defeated 
in the championship game. Besides 
the Seniors the Sophs had as their 
quests Miss Coleman, Miss Patton and 
Miss Spurrier of the Physical Educa
tion Department and Mr. Hamer of 
the Physics Department.
Can laborers Frolic?
Ask any one who attended the most 
unique dance of the season last Fri
day night in Carnegie Union.
The affair was given under the au
spices of the Graphica and Avo Clubs 
and the success was due to the untireing efforts of their combined commit
tees.
Just a wrord as to the dance itself. 
The Union was cleared for action and 
only a small enclosure was left for 
the music which was of Maggios best. 
The landing just outside filled with 
comfortable chairs and cozy settees 
while still more were arranged on the 
second floor. Danger signs and many 
labor decives carried out the scheme.
The dancers themselves entered in
to the affair and all came dressed in 
their shop togs, the men wearing over
alls, smocks, and carpenters aprons 
while the young ladies found a vari
ety of costumes from small white tea 
aprons to all-enveloping Mother Hub 
bards.
The dance orders themselves were 
indeed a novelty, the covers were 
made of sheet tin, with grey linen in
serts and fastened at the top with 
small steel rings. Brass chains took 
the place of the usual cords, pencils of 
white ivory were used on the men's 
program, while the ladies were so fix
ed that they might be used as beauty 
mirrors in a pinch.
As the evening passed Fox-Trot 
followed by One-Step and Waltz suc
ceeded each other in all too rapid suc
cession. At midnight a Mill signal 
was sounded and the laborers filed in 
for their lunch. The workers lunch 
in this case consisted of dainty sand
wiches ,devils cake and ice cream. At 
12:30 the frolicers again took the floor 
and held it until 2 a. m.
During one of the dances laborers 
caps were distributed and added much 
to the gaiety of the party.
The patrons and patronesses of the 
occasion were, Dean and Mrs. John T. 
Morris, Prof. and Mrs. R. A. Calderwood, Mr. and Mrs. John C. Martin 
and Mr. and Mrs. Bill Pfouts.
It is rumored that the affair may 
happen annually.-------a-------PLAID NINE OPENS SEASON
Pittsburgh Expresses Heartfelt
Grief at Dr. Brashears Death
This phenomenal April winter that 
so suddenly made itself at home in 
Pittsburgh last week, after spring had 
been officially entered, caused Honus 
Wagner, Plaid baseball coach, to 
scratch his head a little and wonder 
when old man Pennywit would allow 
Carnegie Techs baseball squad to get 
out on the field for a workout.
By Friday, however, Old Sol had 
picked up enough courage to stay out 
long enough to melt the snow and the 
squad braved the cold breezes for a 
brief practice. Saturday afternoon 
was better, and Honus called for a 
game, six pitchers getting a chance to 
work on the mound, and infield aspir
ants to make their first showing. 
About 30 candidates were out, includ
ing Hedlangs, a first sacker and War
rick, a pitcher, both varsity men from 
the 1916 season. Capt. Lynn, Oakley, 
Gooden, Weiss, Good, Durkin, McCaw 
and Mauer are old men from last 
years team.
The first game of the season is 
booked with Duquesne University, at 
home on April 14. That means only 
one week of practice before the open
ing game, and Honus is planning some 
intensive practices for this week. Altho some of the men have just finish
ed the basketball season and are in 
tip-top shape, the rest of the squad 
would benefit greatly by these inten
sive workouts.
In all probability Honus will use 
(Continued on page 4.)
The death of Dr. John A. Brashear 
last Thursday evening is mourned by 
all connected with Carnegie Tech as 
not only a misfortune for the insti
tution, but a loss to all humanity. 
Work in all Divisions was suspended 
for part of Friday afternoon, and the 
flags were half-masted until after the 
funeral. A student guard of honor 
was placed over the body of Dr. Bra
shear after its arrival at Memorial 
Hall at 11:00 a. m, on Sunday until 
the time of the funeral at 3:30 p. m.
Uncle John was a charter member 
of the board of trustees of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, and had an 
important share in the development of 
the school. He was known to all the 
officials and older members of the stu
dent body, and was loved and respect
ed by all.
He was born in Brownsville, Pa., in 
1840. Here he received a common 
school education, upon completing 
which he apprenticed himself to a 
manufacturer of steamboat engines as 
a wheelright. In 1860 he moved to 
Louisville, Ky., but owing to his pro
nounced Union sentiments, was forced 
to leave that city which was a hotbed 
of the Confederacy.
At the age of 23 he married Phoebe 
Stewart, rented a house in the South 
Side, and was employed as a wheel
wright in the mills of Zug & Painter. 
It was at this time that he first be
came interested in astronomy. With 
the assistance of his young wife, he 
built a shed in the back of the home 
in Holt Street, and there began the 
experiments which were destined to 
place him among those in the front 
rank of that science. In this shop was 
made the first telescope ever manu
factured in Pittsburgh, and the foun
dation laid for one of the most mod
ern and efficient factories for the pro
duction of technical instruments, 
whose fame is known wherever such 
instruments are used.
Long lines of people passed through
MEETING OF CAMERA CLUB
The season for outdoor photog
raphy has come around again. Every 
amateur enthusiast is polishing up his 
apparatus and getting ready to do his 
best. The club has therefore every 
reason to look forward to a big time 
these few months. In order to start 
the spring off right a meeting will be 
held Thursday, April 15, at 8 p. m., in 
Room 11, Machinery Hall. The prin
cipal item on the program will be Mr. 
Hinelines talk on Aerial Photoggraphy, which he was unable to give 
at the last meeting. There will also 
be an open discussion qf the plans 
for the clubs activities.
Mr. Hineline is well qualified to talk 
on any photographic subject, and is 
an extremely interesting speaker. He 
will give both the methods used, and 
some of the personal experiences of 
aviators. The lecture will be illus
trated with British and French lan
tern slides, and also by a number of 
slides made from captured German 
photographs. These latter are very 
fine in illustrating the work, as well 
as showing some of the German meth
ods and warfare at the front.
Every amateur who has ever taken 
a picture or intends to take any 
should be out, for this meeting will 
be one of great interest to him and 
well worth the time spent. Come and 
hear Mr. Hineline, and help to form 
a program for the club's activities 
during the spring months.
Memorial Hall during the earlier part 
of the afternoon to view the body as it lay in state.
These lines became denser as time 
for the service neared. At one time 
police had to regulate them from the 
outside. The people filed down the 
aisles, across the stage upon which the 
coffin rested ,and out by the side entrance.'
An hour before the services began 
every seat in the hall was filled, the 
aisles were clogged and the balconies 
crowded to capacity. Hundreds word 
lurifecfaway. Upon the stage were 
city and county officials, close friends 
of the family and business and profes
sional men. In a little room to the 
east of the stage were members of the family.
A special musical selection was ren dered by the orchestra of tin* Music 
Department, Arts Division. The Ma
sonic Quartet and Mrs. Christine Mill
er Clemson sang. After the reading 
of the Twenty-third Psalm by Dr. 
Bonsall, United States Judge W. II. S. 
Thomson read a paper on Dr. Bra
shears life, prepared by Judge Joseph 
Buffington, who was unable to attend.
President Hammerschlag ably ex
pressed the sentiment of the school 
when he said: The passing of Dr.
Brashear leaves me desolate, we loved 
and revered him, he was our inspira
tion and our dearest friend.
Words cannot convey the loss his 
death will be to Pittsburgh. America 
has never produced a greater soul, so 
fine, so generous and noble with a 
genius for service to his fellowinan 
that transcended that of any citizen of the nation.
The C. I. T. owes to him next to Mr. 
Carnegie its very existence and he 
guided our destinies from the begin
ning. The faculty and students will 
grieviously miss him and pay tribute 
when the opportunity comes. His 
spirit will live on in our hearts.
GIRLS HOLD FIRST ASSEMBLY
The first regular weekly assembly 
was held Wednesday. It was devoted 
to the answering of the questions 
placed by the girls in a question box. 
Dean Breed answered the questions 
explaining them fully. Among the 
questions brought up were that of the 
formation of sororities, the matter of 
writing notes of courtesy and the like. 
A certain number of assemblies are 
to be devoted to the answering of 
questions on any matter. Miss Breed 
also, made the announcement that 
talks will be given in future assem
blies on citizenship, which responsi
bility is soon to fall on the girls who 
will be eligible to vote in the coming 
elections.
Several important announcements 
were made concerning scholarships. 
The scholarship donated by the Class 
of 1916 in memory of Miss Belleville, 
a former instructor in M. M., was giv
en to Miss Francis Roberts, a Senior 
in the Secretarial Department. The 
Pittsburgh Female College Associa
tion Scholarship was awurded to Miss 
Mary Zarobsky, a Junior in the Secre
tarial Department. Miss Mary Scheerin received the scholarship given by 
the 1915 class of Margaret Morrison.
An announcement concerning the 
home concert of the girls glee club 
was made. The assembly closed with 
the singing of  Dear Old Tech.
New Athletic Council Publishes 
Report of Policy and Progress
Frank H. Haaren New Graduate Manager.
and organizations at the mass meeting 
of February 25th, there has been paid 
in up-to-date (April 10th) $394.50, 
representing 16 out of the 74 pledges.
Between March 20th and 25th ap
proximately 2,200 letters were sent out 
to the alumni, calling not only for 
cash contributions payable now to the 
capital fund, but for pledges for an
nual contributions for four years. It 
is planned that the alumni subscrip
tions to the fund shall equal, if not 
exceed, the amount just paid in by 
the undergraduates. Former students 
and the faculty will also be canvassed shortly.
Frank II, Haaren has just been elec
ted Graduate Manager by the Council, 
for a period of two years, beginning 
May 1, 1920. Mr. Haaren was in the 
Department of Architecture for four 
years from 1910 to 1914, and was 
prominent, in activities as follows. 
Member, Seannachie Society! Delta 
Skull, Beta Theta Epsilon; SocretaryTreasurer of the Musical Clubs and 
Tech Architectural Club; Manager of 
Varsity Football, Editor-in-Chicf of 
the Thistle; member, Athletic Board 
of Control and Student Activities 
Committee; Vice-President, Design School.
The Council is in correspondence 
with Mr. Walter Steffen, and it is 
expected that an announcement %an 
be made within a fortnight concern
ing his availability as football coach for another period of years.
The Buildings and Grounds Com
mittee is at work on plans to have 
the Athletic Field re-surfaced, and the 
capacity of the grandstand increased. 
Locker and shower facilities are boing 
planned for the varsity team under 
the now stand. Undorgraduato senti
ment is apparently unanimous in feel
ing that a now gymnasium is now the 
most needed building on the campus.
It is to be the policy of the Coun
cil to make full and frequent progress 
reports in The Tartan and the 
Alumnus, to the ond that every one 
interested may be kept well informed. 
In closing this brief record of what 
we have boon able to do in the first 
month of our operation, I want to 
again pay tribute to the magnificent 
response of the undergraduates on the 
call to establish a resorvo, and to add 
that the Council, in developing a more 
representative and expanded Intercol
legiate athletic program, pledges itself 
to maintain the high standards of elig
ibility and sportsmanship that have al
ways characterized Techs way of playing tho game.
CLARENCE OVEHENI) '08, 
President, Athletic. Council. April 10, 1920.
The new Athletic Council In 
effective March 13, 1920, adopting its 
constitution and by-laws, and electing 
its officers, on that day. The consti
tution had previously been ratified by 
th student body, and approved by the administration.
The personnel of the Council is as 
follows: Undergraduates: Paul D.
Good, Industries; II. G. Nichol, Sci
ence; S. P. Stewart, Arts; Faculty, 
Dean Tarbell, Dr. Marks, Professor 
Aude; Alumni, F. l. Cogswell 12 and 
L. H. Lee 09, representing the Gen
eral Alumni Federation, and Eugene 
Dowling 09 and Clarence Overend OS 
representing the Varsity Clan.
The campaign to create a capital 
fund for the Athletic Association is 
now under way, making a most auspi
cious start through the splendid man
ner in which the undergraduates fin
ancially backed up their vote at the 
mass meeting of February 25th. They 
paid in $8,670, through the $5 pledges 
which were collected at the springquarter registration. Several hun
dred dollars more will come in on ac
count of late registration and other 
reasons. My information is that only 
one student out of all those to whom 
the pledge applied declined to recog
nize the obligation. This was wonder
ful support on the part of the under
graduates, and deserves the highest 
praise. It was getting behind Tech 
with a unanimous and fine spirit of 
loyalty, and gives the new Council 
the very best sort of encouragement 
on which to start its work.
Tho Administration has boon equal
ly generous in its support, making 
available for the Council an appropri
ation of $6,500 out of tho General 
Fees on which to complete the ath
letic business of the current college 
year, and offering free office space, 
and a share in the Graduate Manag
ers salary for the first six months. 
By vote of the Council at its first 
meeting the following letter of ap
preciation was sent to President Ilamerschlag':
President A. A. Ilamerschlag:
The Athletic Council organized 
on the evening of March 13th, 
and one of the first actions, of 
which I was instructed to inform 
you, was a vote; of thanks for the 
very substantial cooperation you 
have given it in tho shape of a 
financial appropriation for the re
mainder of the current eollogo 
year, as transmitted to the Coun
cil by Dean Tarbell.
(Signed):
S. P. STEWART, Socy.
Of the $2,400 pledgod by Individuals
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC
The Department of Music, .1. Vick 
OBrien, director, has issued invita
tions for a series of student recitals 
on the following dates; Sunday eve
nings at 8 oclock, May 2, May 23 and 
June 13. The Friday afternoon dates 
are: April 23, May 4 and June 4 at 
1 oclock. No tickets are required for 
admission and students, from the 
other schools, who are interested in 
this art should avail themselves of 
this opportunity to become acquainted 
with the best class of music. Such a 
manifestation of interest, on the part 
of students in other lines of work, 
would give just the needed inspira
tion and the benefit would be mutual.
The two concerts Sunday March 14 
and Friday, March 26, presented very 
interesting programs with three so
loists of unquestionable talent, Miss 
Helen Eshelman, piano; Master Max 
Silverman, violin, and Miss Jean 
Wessner, cello. The Friday pro
gram included the Mozart string quar
tette No. 3 in E flat, which was very 
acceptably interpreted by Francis 
Kleyle, Edgar Therasse, Adolph 
Hershberg and Joseph Replogle.
Miss Alice Kirk played the first 
movement from Schumanns piano 
sonata in G minor Op. 22. She made 
the best of a most unresponsive in
strument and merited the hearty ap
plause accorded her.
Gade's sonata No. 2 D minor, for 
piano and violinMr. Robt. Mc
Gowan, piano, Francis Kleyle, violin 
proved a very' interesting perform
ance. Mr. McGowan accommodates 
himself most happily to accompany
ing, never over shadowing the more 
delicate instrument. On this occa
sion, his tone was unusually clear and 
singing, adding much to the pleasure 
of the performance.
Mi::.'. Gertrude Robinson played a 
group of Chopin Etudes, which were 
cordially received.
Miss Jean WesKners splendid per
formance of Golterman's Concerts in 
A minor for violin-cello, lifts her quite 
out of the amateur class. Her tone 
(Continued on page 3.)
TRACES FOR SPRING SESSIONS
Silently and earnestly is Carnegie 
Tech's tennis team workingM. si
lently that hardly any one at Tech 
knows they are at work and so earn
estly that, in the opinion of their 
coach, Col. Brooks, they will represent 
Tech's strongest aggregation of rac
quet wielders. Generally the boaster 
is a bluffer and Techs tennis crew is 
silent. They have confidence, they 
know their ability, their past perform
ances speak for them, so they are con
tent to be silent and let this seasons results do the talking.
The team is composed mostly of old 
men, Capt. Stockslager, Beatty, Davis, 
Copely, Ilarkncss. Phil Marshall, last 
years gridiron captain is working 
hard for a place on the team, as is 
Simpson, a jjlebe. Both of these men 
will furnish keen competition for 
berths with the Varsity. The snowy 
blasts, which prevailed last week made# 
it impossible for any outdoor practice, 
but this week, with weather permitt
ing, Col. Brooks expects to hold several hard practices.
On account of pending games, Man
ager Ilirsch is unable to announce a 
complete schedule. Altho arrange
ments have been completed with W. 
& J. for games during the campus 
week. Credit is due Ilirsch for bring
ing Syracuse to Western Pennsylvania 
for a series of games with Pitt, W. & 
J. and Tech. Syracuse plays Tech on May 29.
Manager Ilirsch was willing to talk 
anything about tennis and the team, 
but there is one date that he wont 
talk about, not even to say who it is 
with. The writer made several offers 
in an attempt to bribe him, but nix! 
lie intimated, however, that it would 
be the biggest game of the season for 
Tech, and on account of some kind of 
a rivalry across the valley, it would 
be on the quiet for a few weeks yet.
---------0----------
ANNOUNCEMENT.
Manager Berry of the Graphica 
Baseball Team wish to announce that 
he i:i ready to consider bookings with 
other clubs or student organizations.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1920.
7i e L argest Selling
Quality Pencil lit 
(eWorld
AMHRICAN LBAD PENCIL CO.  N. Y.
AMERICAN LEAD PENCIL CO.
Dept'W 27. 217 Fifth Avenue, N. Y.
............ ai...m
WD C Pipes are certainly a man's smoke. They bring 
the smokejoy which every man seeks. Its in the 
mellow French briar, which is guaranteed against cracking or 
burning through, in quality of bit and band, and in workman
ship and design. Select several shapes today at any good 
dealers. Smoke a cool one every time.
WM. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
Right training wins the race. 
SBSI. k* BSBBSBfiBfl
I hat s as true in 
life a;; on the 
cinders.
The Joy of Winter Swimming.
The WM.DEWUTW derived from swimming him not only the endorsement of our lending social worker but our most eminent physicians as well. Mont people Indulge in swimming "in the good old Hummer time but the fact remain that'the body need the cxcrcisc derived more in winter than in the fiummer, when it is possible to get outdoors in the open and avoid the evil that come from a "pent-up life. The last portion to fall ill from colds, coughs and the more serious winter ailments is the habitual winter swimmer, whose flesh becomes hardened and is thus able to resist rtcycrc weather. Theres a lot of joy, vigor and wholesome exercise to be derived by swimming that can be had in 110 other way. The Pittsburg hNatotorium Pool is open all winter.
TUESDAY AND THURSDAY POOL IS FOR LADIES ONLY.
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LES8ON8 CLASS AND PRIVATE
JACQUES' DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBE8 BELL PHONE
(Hartan
li v* cK by undej graduale* ui in* Lujiiukh In 
1 io. MupervTuion ut the lurtf-Mi ArtivitW Hoard
po odice of Putsbuivb **.* H&DE.DHD D&CCD& rnaixei 
UB.iCKii' 1 luN It A I Lb
tusincHW Mann*cr
Phone I la/.cl 942.....!. T. W. Ailnwurti.
..ui , UKlz-v 1. 
fv.di.a,, li* Eu.lul 
L. Jv. Puqu.n
A> b 1 bi<1111 M anay my fidilors
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Luke 
New Editor 
J. i . Arnett 
Associate News Editor 
W. D. Hall
Athlctic Editor 
G. R. Goodrich
Assistant Athlctic Editors 
Fred L. KnowleB 
S. P. Smith 
Circulation Manager 
H. G. Atchley
2>i.iool Eduorb 
M. M. D................Margaret J. Griffen
.science .................i. tv. VV. .<ucaipliic
Industries ..................... Ralph Shanno
ru........................................L. u. tiiiickle>
Utlier Assistants 
Arthur Lubin 
OciLJuue JjuLOii 
Wuiguiel olOi^ciibaUgh 
rvueie LumOei'l 
Uiga Kiefer 
I. M. Zebest J. T. Sissman
BUSINESS STAFF 
D. A. Sillera 
R. F. Lunger 
Wm. Obenour
Advertising Manager 
M. I. Cohen
BATTERY
Exide"
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO. 6g
' H
Broad and Sheridan /Vve.
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
TARTAN OFFICE......................................................................Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays. 
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
.Room 162, Design
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man 
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reporter 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signeo 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, befori 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
THE POINT SYSTEM.
The passing of another quarter and the grades of students therefrom has 
again revealed a sad migration from the Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
In the upper classes a few of the most active men have been droppedas 
usual those who unselfishly devoted too much time advancing the active in
terest of Tech. Means should be taken to prevent such re-occurrences. How 
can we help the active men stay in school?
The University of Pennsylvania recently adopted "The Point System 
for Student Activities by an overwhelming vote. This action followed an 
investigation which revealed that many men were represented in two or 
three activities, holding important positions, one of which was sufficient 
according to the time required to fulfill these positions efficiently. Under 
the regime of the Point System this would have been impossible.
Other schools are successfully operating now under this system and 
criticism of its virtues has only been heard of from the University of Pitts
burgh, its failure being attributed to the fact of no insignia award. Insignia 
is awarded at Tech in every recognized activity. Have we then to fear of it 
being a failure here?
The matter was once discussed by the Student Activities Board. Why 
has no action been taken? Is not the need of such a system apparent? Two 
things should result from the working of this plan: (1) An increased in
terest and more men out for materials; (2) The protection of the unselfish 
few and a distribution of the positions offered by activities. At M. I. T. 
the maximum number of points is ten by which the Senior Class President 
cannot be represented in any other activity. The number of points for each 
activity varies with its importance and it is very evident, especially at this 
time that such a plan could operate very well at Tech.
Fair Dealing Is the Foreword of the Tartan Advertisers.
A memorial service in honor of Dr. John A. Brashear was held this 
morning by the University of Pittsburgh. All classes were suspended after 
the services which wore held in Memorial Hall.
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
President Mamerschlag has announced that the recommendations of the 
Directors of the different divisions of the Institute, in regard to salaries, have 
boon approved. The now schedule of salaries will involve an average increase, 
covering a period of two years, of about twenty-five per cent. The new 
schedule is as follows: Professors $8,100 to .$5,000 per year; associate pro
fessors $3,000 to $3,600 per year; assistant professors $2,400 to $2,900 per 
year; and instructors $1,800 to $2,300 per year.
It is announced also, that a number of fellowships worth $750 each, have
been created, and will be open to graduates of the Institute who wish to 
continue their studies. The holders will be expected to do a certain amount 
of teaching, not to exceed ten hours per week. A number of scholarships
for undergraduates have also been created. The winners of senior year
honors will be eligible for fellowships.
It is further announced that the general fee for the year 1920-1921 will 
be $125 for all regular students. Beginning the next academic year, the 
number of students registered at the Institute will be reduced, in order to 
concentrate all the resources of the Institute on a smaller number of students, 
to give them more personal attention, and to increase the effectiveness of 
th teaching, by relieving the faculty of the strain of large classes and heavy 
schedules. The reduction in enrollment will be effected entirely by limiting 
the size of the freshmen class. No attempt will be made to reduce the size 
of the other classes, except that the number of students admitted with ad
vanced standing from other colleges will be limited.
The plan for erecting a War Memorial Gymnasium is being considered by 
the Board of Trustees, and every effort will be made to secure the needed 
funds.------$------
THE RESTAURANT SITUATION.
President Hamersclilag has instructed me to issue a statement in The 
Tartan on the restaurant situation, as the question is largely one of student 
welfare. He states that on March 31, 1920 there was a deficit of thousands 
of dollars in the restaurant account. To prevent a further deficit food prices 
were raised on April 5th, pending a conference of all parties interested in the 
matter.
I have asked the Chairman of the General Faculty and the President of 
the Student Council to appoint committees to join in the conference. This, 
they have agreed to do. The Administration is ready to make facts and 
figures available.
A complete statement may be expected in next weeks issue or the one 
following. If the findings disclose any factors that can be remedied, the 
President gives assurance that they will immediately receive favorable 
attention. DEAN TARBELL.
CALENDAR OF STUDENT EVENTS.
April I I Industries Dance, Union.
April 15- Alumni Federation Meeting.
April 16Alumni Federation Dance, Union.
April .16---llome Concert, M. M. 1)., Musical Clubs,
Theatre Arts Building.
April 17A. A. E. Dance, Union.
April 20Renots Club Dance, Union.
April 21BaseballTech vs. Duquesne, Tech Field.
April 23M. M. D. Freshman Dance, Union.
April 24Buckeye Club.
M
URADS are as different from
ordinary cigarettes as morning is from 
midnight.
If you want to economize youd better do 
it in some other way than by smoking cheap 
cigarettes.
The trifling additional cost of Murads will 
bring bigger returns in Quality than any in
vestment you ever made.
Because Murads are
100?; PURE TURKISHTHE WORLD'S MOST 
FAMOUS TOBACCO FOR CIGARETTES.
nave onyour 
dracoiiiQ supplies
Everything for the 
drafting room.
Complete stock of 
high grade materials 
at consistent prices.
STEINER & VOEGTLY 
HARDWARE COMPANY
230-234 Diamond Street, 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
KURZS
LUNCHEONETTE
Refreshments, Candies, 
Cigars,
Home Made Ice Cream
AN EXCELLENT MEAL 
SERVED RIGHT 
 at 
3802 Forbes Street 
Oakland
20
Cents
Third United 
Presbyterian Church^
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
lluiU'f SluiU'iu (Cmujn'ijutinu
Fifth and Morewood Avenues.
Samuel I-i. Goldenson, Ph. D., Rabbi. 
Temple Study Tel.. Schenley 275.
SUNDAY LECTURE 
Sunday Morning at 11:10. 
John Brashear
Sabbath Service, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
Grace Cliurcn
(Reformed)
9AYARD and DITHRIDGE 8TREET 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
8ERVICE8:
8unday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M.Social hour and LuncTieon for stu
dents, 15c, at 6 oclock.
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all Students.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH
<T'liworth Avenue and Neville 8tr*#t 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector 
DR. R088 R. CALVIN, AaslatanL 
Sunday Service, 1:00 A. M., 11:00 
V M and 8:00 P. M.College Men's Bible Class at 10:W, led by Dr. Calvin.
All Students Genuinely Wioome.
BELLEFI ELD PRE8 BYTE RIAN 
CHURCH 
Bellefleld and Fifth Avenue*
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Proachlng Services 11 nd i 
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at
tend our services and loarn to 
know u8 aw the congrftgatlon of 
Friendly People.- A hearty 1 
welcome a wait 8 you i
ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Veapers on Sundays at 7:30 P M. 
Penr 58. Middle Aisle, for Tech Stu
dents.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1920.THE TARTAN.PAGE THREE
LOSTA swimming medal. Finder 
please turn it in at Dean Tarbells 
office.
FOUNDTwo-blade, gold-handled 
pen knife turned in to Dean Tarbells 
office, Friday, April 9th. Found on 
campus.
* * *
FOUNDHancocks Applied Me
chanicsturned in to Dean Tarbells 
office, March 22, 1920.
The Mellon National Bank DU 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
*ny account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
R E N A U D  S 
FRENCH BAKERY AND 
PASTRY SHOP 
127 Oakland Avenue 
NOW OPEN 
Delicious French Pastry, Cakes, Pies, 
Bread and Rolls 
Made of the Very Finest Materials in 
Our Own Sanitary Daylight Bakery
GRPHICA MEN ENJOY EASIER INSPECTION TRIP
Philadelphia, April 3: Saturday
noon the members of the Graphica 
party which has been doing New York 
and Philadelphia for the past week 
broke up and the members scurried 
to their homes for Easter Sunday.
On the 26th of March the party con
sisting of 13 members and C. R. Spicher, Acting Head of the Department of 
Printing left Pittsburgh for the Big 
City and after getting comfortably 
settled at the Hotel Commodor pro
ceeded to inspect the city. For the 
next four days the party was on its 
toes and spent the daylight hours 
profitably inspecting the largest print
ing concerns in the city and the hours 
of darkness in the glare of the white 
lights. Little was missed that could 
be seen in those four days.
Among the places visited was the 
Bartlett On* Press, with which the 
former head of the Department, Mr. 
H. L. Gage, is connected. The Chas. 
Frances Press where they saw the Re
view of Reviews and several other 
magazines on the press. The E. C. 
Lewis bindery which turns out the 
best grade of work of its kind in the 
city. A day was spent at the plant of 
the American Type Founders, as well 
as trips made through the Sinclair & 
Valentine Ink Company and the Lino
type factory.
Wednesday the party was the 
guest of the Babcock Printing Press 
Company at its factory in New Lond
on, Conn., and enjoyed a trip on the 
night boat back to New York.
Thursday the scene shifted and the 
party started in on Philadelphia. The 
Curtis Publishing Company was thor
oughly inspected as well as the intag
lio section of the Public Ledger. Fri
day' a visit was made to the mills of 
the Dill and Collins Paper Company 
and Saturday morning the trip ended 
with a round of the Lanston Mono
type Machine Co. At many of the 
plants the party was royally enter
tained and its members were dined 
and wined (?) to their stomachs con
tent. They were the guests of the
employing printers of New York City 
at a banquet given at the Hotel Astor, 
Tuesday night at which time a report 
of the printing industry in New York 
City was made. In Philadelphia the 
members rubbed shoulders with the 
biggest printers when the Typothetae 
of Philadelphia played host at the 
Meridian Club.
Now the members of the party have 
returned fully rested from last quart
ers work and are ready to hit the 
ball hard this coming term.----------o----------
I PLACEMENT BUREAU | 
NOTICE
H In order to make our records jt 
complete it is necessary for us i 
to know what amount of money f 
is earned by students in the varm 
ious lines of work in which they j 
are placed by the bureau. For S 
this reason we are asking that jj 
all men who were placed during jj 
the Easter vacation report their jj 
complete earnings for that peM 
riod as soon after they are paid jj 
as possible.
It is also requested that any jj 
unreported work for the month g 
of March be turned in to the ofjj 
fice at once.
niiiiiiiuiiii'iiiiiiiiiiiiiii -o-DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC
CONCERTS INTERESTING.
(Continued from page 1.) 
is steady, clear and rich and her in
terpretation replete with intelligence 
and feeling. She displays none of the 
sentimentality affected by so many 
devotees of this beautiful instrument, 
which Henry Krehbiel has called the 
sighing lover of the orchestra. Her 
career is of special interest, because 
her art is entirely the product of her 
training in the Department of Music 
under one master, plus (of course) 
the rare gift which nature has be
stowed upon her. That she has a 
future in the world of music, if she 
chooses, seems a foregone conclusion, 
as her work has already received rec
ognition on the concert stage.
As this recital came in examination 
week, the audience was below the av
erage in numbers.
"Just Enough Turkish
A Hippodrome audience may truly be called "representative of the whole 
United Statesno this day-after-day preference for Fatima ia highly significant.
For one thing, it shows the broad 
weep of Fatima'u popularity.
But more important  it indicates 
that men generally are growing more 
sensitive to the taste-cffect of too much 
or too little Turkish tobacco in their 
cigarettes.
Fatimas ''_;ujtcnoug/iTurkishbleud1 
in other words, is the one feature which 
sets it definitely apart from all other cigarettesand which accounts for its leadership at so many famous placca.
. and at the Hippodrome
A . At the New York Hippodrome, draw*
J ing over three million theatre-goers
annually from every corner of the country., 
Fatima is not merely the largest-selling ciga* 
retteit actually outsells any other by more 
than two to one. ^ * s-,
FATIMAA Sensible Cigarette
The Snappiest Suits Shown 
in Pittsburgh This Spring 
Are Concededly
AN EXHIBITION
OF THE SEASONS MOST STYLISH 
MODELS WILL BE HELD
AT THE BEANERY
On Thursday, April 15th
11:30 A. M. to 1:30 P. M.
WHILE AT LUNCHEON THAT DAY YOU WILL HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY 
TO EXAMINE THESE CREATIONS OF THE MASTERS OF CLOTHESCRAFT. 
MR. DEEMER OF OUR PITTSBURGH STORES WILL THEN EXPLAIN WHY
You Should Wear Our Clothes!
We Shall Hand You a Token.
3 Stores in Pittsburgh507
MARKET STREET
AKRON
AMSTERDAM
CLEVELAND
MILWAUKEE
PHILADELPHIA
209-211 
SMITH FIELD STREET
ALSO OUR OWN STORES IN 
READING 
ROCHESTER 
SCRANTON 
SCHENECTADY
932
LIBERTY AVENUE
SYRACUSE 
TERRE HAUTE 
TRENTON 
WILKES-BARRE 
YOUNGSTOWN
ioo% G.T.M. Specified and 
GOODYEAR EQUIPPED PLANT
OF THETOLEDO CIDER & VINEGAR CO.
TOLEDO O^IO.
Counter Shoft2** Floor
c/c >7 _ ; jj*5 t>*y.J. .
Fres*CAr/nt'V ~T~T1
, V /I'M 
' CotJV/sTrSihrtf? 
 Counter Shaft n** Floor
\ J feCounter Shaft
Turn
S 4ply Blue StraoA
(.Line Shaft  /"Floor
30 HP. Motor r/30 R.P.M,
-iCounter Shafts'"* Floor
Copyright 1020, by Tho CloodyonrTIm & Itubbor C'o.
100% Goodyear-Equippedand the G.T.M.
The economy of power is a constan t problem 
with the plant superintendent, the factory 
engineer, and the production manager. They 
know that the volume, the cost and the 
quality of the entire factorys output depend 
directly on the success with which a depend
able, uniform flow of power is transmitted to 
the machines.
Full recognition of the value of economical 
transmission is basic in the Goodyear Plant 
Analysis Plan. It may be, as in the case of 
our original installation for The Toledo Cider 
& Vinegar Company, only a single drive that 
the G.T.M.Goodyear Technical Manis 
asked to analyze. But from the outset he 
makes his expert study on the principle that 
a belt is an integral part of the plants pro
duction line.
He surveys the actual conditions under 
which the belt must operate. He figures 
pulley dimensions, center-to-center distances, 
operating speed required. He notes that the 
belt must resist certain acids, or high tem
peratures, or unusual abrasion, flinty dust 
or warm damp. In this particular case, it 
happened to be acetic acid.
The G.T.M.-specified belt, it is logical to 
expect, will stand up to its part in the 
factorys work better than a belt that ia
B E LT I N
bought on.the basis of whatever the jobber 
has in stock. The one the G.T.M. recom
mended for the Toledo company did. It 
held the pulleys, withstood the acid, and 
delivered full power. It lived up to the 
value built into it by the Goodyear manu
facturing ideal,  Protect Our Good Name.
100% Goodyear-equipped today is the 
result of a succession of analyses following 
that first one, plus the service the G.T.M.- 
specified Goodyear Belts have never failed 
to yield. You will note there are different 
types of Goodyear Belting on different drives 
and on pumping duty in this plant. In line 
with the same principle of assuring the rela
tion of every unit to the work of the whole 
plant, the G.T.M. prescribed Goodyear 
Monterey Acid Hose for the conveying of 
the product. At the end of a full seasons 
run, the Goodyear equipment shows prac
tically no wear and has furnished new records 
for energy conserved and power transmitted.
Students and teachers of engineering will 
find the subject of power economy through 
plant analysis practically treated in the 
Goodyear Mechanical Goods Encyclopedia. 
They may obtain copies by letter request to 
the Mechanical Goods Department, The 
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, 
Akron, O.
VALVES

---------------------------------------------------

WRIGLEYS
VfPAPMINTy j
THE TARTAN.PAGE FOURWEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1920.
[!IMmniHnni!IHiIfliIiniUi!fl)!li!l!iRiliI!m!I[!l!ICJi![ni{|!!figil|
ALUMNI DANCE 
EVERBODY OUT!!!
On Friday evening April the 
.sixteenth, the Alumni will give 
a dance in Carnegie Union, and 
hope to have the pleasure of 
meeting with a goodly number 
of the Faculty and the Student Body.
Let's make it a real Tech evening.
Admission $1.50 per couple.
The A. A. E. held a very interesting 
meeting Thursday, April 8, The pur
pose of that meeting was the installaion of the chapter and election of 
officers for the next year. The at
tendance was exceedingly good, and 
the member.1; who attended that meeti/i''- did not regret it.
Mr. Kirk, president of the Pitts
burgh Chapter presented the charter 
to this chapter in name of the Na
tional Headquarters. Mr. Kirk em
phasized that the A. A. E. is not a 
union but an association similar to 
that of the doctors, lawyers and oth
ers. The engineer cannot stand for 
labor only, for his purpose is to make 
good both to labor and capital, there
fore he is the man on the fence. Fur
thermore the function of the A. A. E. 
is to raise the ethics of the engineer 
and also stimulate the interest in com
munity work among the engineers. 
Due to the fact that the A. A. E. 
builded it foundation on just prin
ciples, .its membership therefore ex
ceed 1(5,000 now, although it only 
organized in 1915. Mr, H. F. Stimm, 
president of this chapter, gave a 
speech of acceptance and promised 
that the members of the C. I. T. chap
ter will live up to and foster the pur
pose of the A. A. E.
An election of officers for next year 
was then held and the following offiecers were elected: H. T. Stimm,
president; L. E. Yoder, vice-presi
dent; J. K. W. Macapine, secretary; 
and H. T. Sobeck( treasurer. Mem
bers of the executive board, which 
consists of one member from each of 
the courses in the engineering school 
and the officers of the previous year, 
are: H. T. Stimm, chairman; W. C. 
Fox, .J. K. W. Macalpine, J. Jendria 
Siack, C. E. Peterson, A. W. Prins, 
W. C. Seabright, A. C. Sedlechek A. 
N. Siratmoer and J. W. Towns.
Preparations are now being made 
to publish a technical journal. The 
faculty and students are in back of 
this project and there will be enough 
material to put out a good technical 
journal. Such journals are published 
in other technical schools adn the C.
I. T. chapter will sec that Tech puts 
out a real good one. There is a lot 
of good material that can be gotten, 
to prove of great interest to an en
gineering student. This >vill be an 
undertaking to foster Techs func
tions. So lets all get beyond that 
project.April 17 is another important day 
for the A. A. E. men, for a dance 
will be given at the Union. Maggios 
orchestra will be used to supply en
ergy for stimulating the movements
of the legs and besides---------------?Well, if you want to know come out 
Saturday night and you will see. A 
good attendance is expected. For 
tickets see Seabright, Stimm, W. C. 
Fox or Zebest.
Due to the courtesy of the U. S. 
Bureau of Mines, an interesting in
structing 3 reel movie The Story of 
Coal was shown. It showed modern 
methods of mining coal and how mod
ern machine shops, etc., exist (00 feet 
below the surface. Then refresh
ments were served. This is one of 
the characteristics of every A. A. E. 
mooting, i. e., at the end of the 
meeting, good oats Is served.
On April 1(5 the Bureau of Mines 
will entertain members and friends 
of the A. A. E. Pittsburgh chapter 
at a reception and entertainment in 
(he Mines Building...D-----GRAPHIC A LETTERHEADS.
The Graphica wish to announce the 
opening of their letterhead and sta
tionary campaign. Samples of letter
heads, calling cards and book plates 
have been placed in the hands of sev
eral of the best sales-students on the 
campus and they will be glad to take 
your order or the same may be left 
at the Department of Printing, in the 
Industries Building.----------O----------PLAID NINE OPENS
SEASON SATURDAY.
(Continued from page 1.) 
as many men as possible in the game 
Saturday, to see what they can do 
when in a real fight, and their show
ing in this game will be a big factor 
in determining their place with the 
Varsity. '
The spirit and vim, which the can
didates have shown thus far, is grati
fying to Honus and a successful base
ball season for Tech is anticipated. Pllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillll
SCHEDULE
once
The largest electric sign 
In the world advertises
original process in con
formity willi the present 
regulationson sale 
everywhere.
W. F. McCoughey, Jr., graduate in 
Design '16, has just received notice 
that he is placed first in the Second 
Preliminary Competition for the Paris 
Prize. This Prize provides for two 
and a half years study in the Ecole 
des Beaux Arts in Paris. The Final 
Competition will take place May 1st to July 12th.WRIGLEYS
on Times Square, New York 
City: it is 250 feet long, 70 
feet high. Made GI of 17,286 
electric lamps.
The fountains Play, the 
trade mark changes, read
ing alternately WRIGLEV'S 
SPEARMINT, DOUBLEMINT, 
and JUICV FRUIT, and the 
Spearmen do a turn."
TO SERVE YOUR BEST NEEDS
OAKLAND 
COMMUNITY 
HOUSE
3904 FORBES STREET 
TO HELP YOU ENJOY COLLEGE
SPECIALISTS IN
Formal Dress
Evening Clothes and 
Acessories For RentIf/tyC 
Worts/ '('fir a/1 andThis slan Is seen nightly by about 
500.000 people from all over the world.DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
406 Pittsburgh Life Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone 1254 GrantSealed
TightANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. ST.LOUIS
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
II Phone* 57 A 9160 8chnley 
P. A A. 1092-R 
22t ATWOOD 8TREET jj
PITTSBURGH, PA. jj
Household Qooda Moved, Stored, jj 
Paoked and Chipped. g
IK8TOWN
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers.
/EJi3JS/lSit9J3/S/S/S?/3JH/S/E/H/a/H/a/S/nlii3/a/3/
J, TRANSITS AND LEVELS
|{ ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE
1 DRAFTING ROOM
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE 
EXPENSE by buy I no better 
ahootf. You will find them far 
cheaper to wear than nhoen 
which re not 7 high In quality.
Our new modele for FALL and 
WINTER re now In, nnd they 
ure full of nnapJuet suitable 
for the oolle^je man.
( Lnnlnoorn Equipment, Inetrurnentu of Preoliilon, Blue Print 
! and I3rown Print Paper and I Cloth.
j B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
12 SIXTH STREETTHE GRAFF COMississippi Kxyer Power Company, Keokuk, IowaRANGES, STOVES, FURNACES,
MANTELS AND TILING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
PHONES:
Bell, 559 Grant P. & A., 559 MainUtilizing Natures Power
E
LECTRICAL energy generated by water 
power has grown to be one of our greatest 
natural resources  and we have only begun to 
reach its possibilities. It mines and refines our 
ores, turns the wheels of industry, drives our 
street cars and lights our cities and towns. The 
power obtained from Nature saves many million 
tons of coal every year.
At first the field of its utilization was limited by the dis
tance electricity could be transported. But soon research 
and engineering skill pointed the way to larger and better 
electrical apparatus necessary for high-voltage trans
mission. Then ingenious devices were invented to insure 
protection against lightning, short-circuits, etc., which 
cause damage and interrupt the service. And now all over 
the country a network of wires begins to appear, carry
ing the magic power.
The General Electric Company, with its many years ex
perience, has played a great part in hydro-electric develop
ment. By successfully co-ordinating the inventive genius 
of the company and its engineering and manufacturing 
abilities, it has accomplished some of the greatest achieve
ments in the Droduction and application of electrical 
energy.
The old mill wheel of yesterday has gone. Today the 
forces of immense volumes of water are harneSsed and 
sent miles away to supply the needs of industry and 
business and the comforts of the home.
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and CandyA casting for one of tlio huge water-wheel driven generators installed in the 
Mississippi River Power 
Company's plant nt Keokuk. This installation will ultimately consist of thirty 
of these machines, giving a total capacity of 216,000 kilowatts (300,000 horsepower). It is the largest hydro-electric development 
in the world. The General Electric Company builds generator for water-wheel drive in sizes ranging from S7H to S2.500 kilowatts and the aggregate capacity of G-E units now in successful operation is in excess of 
four million horse-powei.
At Home
April 17Duquesne University.
April 20Bethany.
May 6Grove City.
May 8Juniata.
May 11Westminster.
May 15Alumni.
May 19Pittsburgh Collegians.
May 20Geneva.
May 81Muskingum College.
June 17University of Califor
nia.
Abroad
April 28West Virginia Uni
versity at Morgantown,
April 2-1West Virginia Uni
versity at Morgantown.
May I Grove City College at 
Grove City.
May 22 Bethany at Bethany,
NEAREST TO TECH .Tl
Cor. Craig and Forbes }j
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor, S
Nearest and Best Laundry 0 
Agency. fv
THE 
NEW PEKIN
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SI-IOKS
Bellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED 
11 to 2 and 5 to 8
Music at Lunch and Dinner
EXCELLENT MEALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO STUDENTS
Juniata at Juniata. 
Bucknoll at Lowisburg, 
Penn State at State. 
Duquesne University BlulT.3708 Forbes Street Oakland
Schenley 3403 Y. M. Ming. Mgr.
Sales Offices in all large cities.General Office Schenectady. N.Y.Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.
