The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 40CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1944
CIT Downs Case; 
Loses to Geneva
Geneva
There wasnt much doubt last 
Tuesday evening as to which was 
the better team on the floor. Geneva 
gave evidence from the opening 
whistle of their superiority. Its a 
disappointing thing to know that 
your team must lose, too, but much 
worse when you see them not play
ing their best ball. Led by Ed Lipp 
and Bob DeVenzio, returning lettermen, Genevas first quarter barrage 
was so fast and furious that our 
freshman five couldnt organize, and 
forgot all of the offense and defense 
they had practiced since October 
fifteenth.
Personally, we found great fault 
with the refereeing. Our old friend 
Monk Ketchell was on hand, and he 
refereed it as a girls game, or some
thing. The actual number of fouls 
called can be realized when you 
note that a total of twenty-four 
points were scored thereby.
The score by quarters and the 
box score tell their own story:
Total
Geneva ............19 12 20 1465
Carnegie ......... 8 8 5 1435
Carnegie G F P Geneva G F P
Clougherty .... 3 2 8 Lipp ................. 8 2 18Katselas ......... 4 1 9 Tudbieski ........ 5 2 12Theodore ..... 0 4 4 McComb ....... 3 1 7
Scioscia .......... 1 0 2 DeVenzio ........ 3 1 7Klein ............... 0 0 0 Neisheim ......... 2 0 4Morinel'lo ....... 2 1 5 Narvevic .........3 4 10Snyder ............0 1 1 Cabie .................2 0 4Scherb ............ 1 0 2 Bates ................. 0 1 1
Fastuca ........... 1 1 3 Marrow ............ 0 1 1Smuts ..............0 1 1 Lithgrow .......... 0 1 1
CditosUcd
12 11 3526 13 65
This is a report to you, the stockholders, on the conditions that prevail 
in your corporation, The Carnegie Tartan. Perhaps you dont realize that 
you are stockholders, because you dont hold share certificates. Never
theless, you have bought stock by paying your activities fee, for it is out 
of your fee that money i used for the operation of several campus activi
ties including the Tartan. It is quite obvious that student enrollment this 
year is but a fraction of what is was in peace time, and consequently the 
amount of money which the Tartan receives from the activities fees is 
much less than it was.
Although your fee today is as much as it would have been three or 
four years ago, your dixidends are not as large because the capital is much 
smaller. Instead of ten-and twelve page issues you must now accept four 
page issues. You must suffer the sacrifice of feature articles and pictures, 
because the paper is so small. You must read a paper which is a hop, skip, 
and jump ahead of a glorified bulletin board. And finally you must suffer 
the consequences of your own inactivity.
The situation is not irremediable, but the remedy can be effected only 
with cooperation and support from you, the stockholders. The way to make 
up the financial discrepancy is to get more advertisementscommercial, 
.classified, and employment.
If you would give two hours a week to working for your corporation 
your dividends would soar and you would be receiving a weekly paper 
of many more pages than you do now.
What will it be? Sink or swim? A glorified bulletin board or a decent 
.newspaper? Your wish and effort is our command!
Case
It was Saturday night in the old 
Gymnasium, and a goodly crowd 
was there. Being a Tech crowd, they 
went away pleased, too, for the lo
cals came through to the tune of 
52-40. Whatever Maxie had them 
doing this week certainly helped, 
and they are approaching the status 
of a basketball team. In fact, we 
heard that he fed them raw meat 
all afternoon. Whatever the means, 
a new spirit was evident in most of 
the players, and they played really 
for the ball.
The first quarter was a nip and 
tuck affair, witfi each side feeling 
out the opposition. The feeling out 
precess cost ten points each, and 
we started anew in the second. 
Here Maxie started cracking his 
verbal whip from the bench, and 
Continued on page 4
Dave Brinn, Former 
Basketball Captain, 
Killed in Plane Crash
Second Lieutenant David M. 
Brinn, 24, former basketball captain 
at Tech, was killed when the bomb
er on which he was a bombardier 
crashed in Iowa. The bomber, which 
was based at the Siox City Air 
Field, crashed Saturday night in a 
lot between two houses.
The son of Mr. and Mrs. Jacob 
Brinn, 1724 Wightman Street, and 
husband of Mrs. Doris Cohen Brinn, 
formerly a dramat at Tech, the lieu
tenant was a student in the school of 
architecture when called into the air 
corps in May, 1943.
David was a graduate of Taylor 
Allderdice High School where he 
was an outstanding member of the 
basketball team, and consequently 
chosen to be a member of the AllCity Basketball Team. His talent 
and experience on the hardwood 
led to his selection as captain of the 
Carnegie Tech team in 1941 and 
1942.
Dave will always be remembered 
for his fine sense of humor and en
viable ability to get along with his 
fellow men. *
Soph-Frosh Party 
Proves Big Success
On Friday, December 8, 1944, the 
Sophomores proved themselves 
Would Be Minstrels, on the fourth 
floor of Maggie Murph, in famed 
Rec. Hall, where they gave a party 
for the Freshman class. The evening 
began with a strenuous game of 
Musical Chair. Pat Clark of the 
Freshman class, outdid all others in 
this activity, and walked away with 
the first prize. Then the real fun be
gan when the talented Sophomores 
presented their various skits, acted 
out by such notables as Helen Mil
ler, Janet Whitney, Alice Ely, LolContinued on page 4
SAI, Music Honorary, 
Gives Xmas Program
Alpha Mu chapter of Sigma Alpha 
Iota will present its Christmas 
musicale Friday, December 15, at 
3:30 p. m. in the Exhibition Room, 
College of Fine Arts. Everyone is 
welcome to attend.
The program includes:
1. Virgin, tutto Amor ...................Durante
Danza, Fanciulla .......................Durante
Marguerite Scumaci, Soprano 
accompanied by Dorothy Wehner
2. Sonata ...................................Scarlatti
Janet Shafer, Piano
3. Canzone ........................................Mozart
Lheure exquis............Reynaldo Hahn
Carols ...................Bryceson Trehorne
Dorothy Schwartz, Soprano
4. Sonatine (first movement) ....Ravel
Janet Shager, Piano
5. Bring A Torch........Jeannette, Isabella
Old French Carol 
The Shepherds Christmas Song 
Swiss Folk Song 
arr. by Morten J. Luvaas
Lo, How a Rose Eer Blooming-----
.......................................... Praetorius
In the Bleak Midwinter .................
...........................Katherine K. Davis
Angels We Have Heard On High 
Traditional Carol 
Isabel Munster, Lenore DeWall, 
Imogene Grove
Officers Chosen Friday 
By Carnegie Tecvets
At a meeting of the Carnegie Tec
vets Club, held last Friday, officers 
were chosen for the coming year. 
Elected to the position of Command
er was Aubrey Caplan. The new 
Lieutenant Commander is Ed Wiernasz, while Bob Straka was chosen 
Adjutant. James Tennant was elect
ed to the position of Finance Of
ficer and Myron Glass will be Spec
ial Service Officer.
The social committee, under 
Myron Glass, has already started on 
plans for a big time next year. 
Among plans considered are a re
turn party for the Delta Gams, and 
a dance to be staged sometime after 
the first of the year.
I. H. Dance 
Makes Hit
Following the successful Carnegie-Case basketball game of Sat
urday night, Interhonorary Coun
cil sponsored a big Record Hop in 
Thistle Hall. Dancing to the music 
of a Wurlitzer Juke Box, approxi
mately 130 couples crowded the hall 
to put over the second all-school 
dance this semester.
Beginning shortly after ten 
oclock loyal Tartans danced to such 
favorites as Til Then, Dont Fence 
Me In, Ill Walk Alone, You Made 
Me Love You, and a few fast pieces 
to which only the more rugged jitterbugged.
At intermission time the Drama 
Department presented a hilarious 
series of skits. Prissy Dodge, acting 
as mistress of ceremonies, started 
the program off with Marcia Wachter and Pat Walker giving a rendi
tion of The Horse With the Hansom 
Behind. Bill Ross kept the audience 
roaring with his imitiations of 
Boake Carter, F. D. Roosevelt, 
Clark Gable, Charles Boyer, and 
others. Prissy Dodge again returned 
to the stage to give uproarious act
ing and singing of Glamour and 
I Cant Say No! Following this, 
dancing resumed only to be inter
rupted again by a spontaneous sing
ing of Tech and other songs.
The decorations, of which Thistle 
Hall abounded, consisted of plaid 
decorations over the doorway, blue 
crepe covering the posts and trim
ming the walls, red and white 
streamers, and pennants from num
erous colleges.
The committee in charge of the 
dance consisted of Dave Jones, 
chairman, and Adeline Herlick, 
Peggy Cole, Irwin Aisenberg and 
Jean Lisle. Members of the honoraries worked hard to make the 
dance another success in Techs his
tory.
*
Maggie Murph Senate 
Gives MMCC Party
Baffling! Exciting! Amazing! 
These and more describe the mys
tery of magic as shown by Mr. Mascaro at the Senate Party on Wednes
day night. In addition to the regular 
card, rope, and rabbit tricks, this 
famous magician, who has worked 
with both Thurston and Blackstone, 
did an old Chinese trick with rings.
The party was livened up by a 
bit of community singing. While 
waiting for everyone to arrive they 
sang such popular songs as I Danced 
With the Dolly and The Trolley 
Song. A little bridge was played 
(as usual). The evening ended with 
the singing of Christmas carols, and 
cider and doughnuts.
Seen at the party, in addition to 
the students were Misses Winches
ter, Hays, Ely, Patterson, Spencer, 
and Mr. Staley and Mr. Schultz. Rec 
Hall was gayly decorated with little 
snowmen and snowflakes for the oc
casion.

---------------------------------------------------

    ' ' * 1
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1944
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnerie Institate of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh IS, Pa. 
rBONK MAYFLOWER *6 PHONE SCHENLEY 4M!
MMMMTto rom national advertising v After Office Hours Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-cbief........... Emerson 1808tfHfgf Publishers ftfprt set11a tivt420 TheCarn av*. new gritV nV gV BusinMs Manager...........Jackson 9896
Ckicaao  Bo*to  to* An11.11  Sah Fiamckco
Entered as lectal-cMu matter la the PitUbiifk Peat Office ander the Aet of March I, 1879. 
Pibllikel weekly daring achoel year, except holiday and ex anal nati CI perioda.
Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
EditoT-in-Chief .................................................................................. Adeline C. Herlick
Business Manager ........................................................................................Pawl Schucker
Highlights of Stern Banquet
On Friday December 8 in the Uni
versity Club a banquet was held in 
honor of Dr. Otto Stern, Carnegies 
winner of the 1943 Nobel Prize. Not
ed scientists from all over the na
tion were in attendance. Mayor 
Cornelious D. Scully represented 
the City of Pittsburgh at the affair, 
Dr. Sidney Siegal, of the Pittsburgh 
Physical Society and Dr. Doherty 
was the representative from Car
negie Institute of Technology.
Dr. Fredrick Seitz, of Carnegie 
Tech was Master of Ceremonies. Dr. 
James Frank of the University of
Chicago, 1935 winner of the Nobel 
Prize in Physics was one of the 
speakers of the evening as was Dr. 
I. I. Rabi of Columbia University, 
the 1944 winner of that honor. Dr. 
Van Vleck of Harvard, and Dr. Im
manuel Estermann, Dr. Sterns as
sistant and professor of Physics at 
Carnegie, also spoke. Dr. Stern him
self made an address. 
The only student group present 
at the affair was the engineering 
honorary, Tau Beta Pi, which 
initiated its new members before 
the banquet.
Drs. Condon, Van Vleck, Dr. Jones, and Dr. Seitz at the Stern Banquet.
Tau Beta Pi: Standing: Ed Stevens, Bob Marcus, Cliff Shaw, George 
Pake, Mike Norton, Dave Jones.
Seated: Dan Schacher, Ernie Lowenstein, Bob Teasdale, Julia Randall, 
Leonard Lerman, John Seiger.
Dirfc Colymn . . .
Something new was added and 
from all indications it was a success
ful addition. Reference is to the I. 
H. Hop after the basketball game 
Saturday night. We discerned 
through the maze of couples Mike 
Glass and a Pitt girl, Diana Dines 
. . . Augie Binder and Helen Funk 
. . . Tom Bokman and Judy Lam
bert, a new combine . . . Dick 
Eschenbach and Pattie Igo . . . 
Dick Landman and Ellie Cohen 
. . . A1 Schierman and Marty Wagman.
Ernie Lowenstein, who dropped 
in for the Week-end, showed up 
with Joan Feldman . . . George 
Rahall brought Livyagain . . . 
Its Together again for Maggie 
Harris and Dave Christie . . . Lonewolfing it were Jack Pollock and 
Sam Marcus . . . Fangs Herr
manns date was Janie Hoffman 
. . . and it was Dottie King with
Mike Riggle . . . The basketball 
players helped increase the group 
though some were dateless . . . We 
saw Mike Theodore with a cute 
girl.
The Case players didnt lose any 
time and found themselves some 
dates for the affair . . . Sue Maimin 
and Sid Berkowitz were having a 
good time (we thought) . . . Ditto 
for Elek Weiss and Renee Orkin.
Comedy note: (Here they are
again) Tom Bokman and date help
ed the janitors clean up by taking 
an unexpected fall on the slippery 
floor . . . Orchitis to the dramats 
who put on the entertainment . . . 
Most of the decorations left with 
the departing crowd . . . Only sour 
note of the evening was the warm 
coke. The ice didnt arrive until 
about 11:00 . . . Members of the 
dance committee were there to in
spect the fruits of their effort.
One of the Girls
Casey McKean
Spotiti in Qenenal
Volleyball
It looks like the SAEs. The stage 
was set for a terrifically dramatic 
final game between two undefeated 
teams, but the Gamma Phi Nus fell 
in an upset to the unpredictable 
Alleyrats. It was quite a match. The 
Alleyrats took the first game easily, 
21-12, and took a commanding eight 
point lead in the second. The Delt 
team fought back, deuced the 
match, and finally took it 22-20. 
After that, it was touch and go, and 
the Alleyrats won a slugging match 
by 21-17.
This even places the SAE team in 
undisputed possession of first place. 
They padded this lead on December
4, when they dropped the Cameron
Hall squad by 21-13 and 21-18 
scores. This same Cameron Hall 
dropped the other Delt team by 21- 
13, 14-21, 21-8 scores.
The SAEs are supremely con
fident of a victory in their final 
league game with Gamma Phi Nu 
on Thursday, pointing with pride to 
their record of not having lost even 
one game. An upset is unlikely, and 
the SAE team should walk in.
Standings
W. L.
SAE .............................................4 0
GPN .............................................3 1
Alleyrats .....................................3 1
Cameron Hall ...........................2 2
RZP
TX
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the Itaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
She attributes her interest in sci
ence to a chemistry set she received 
when in the sixth grade. By the 
time she was graduated from Guilbert Chemistry No. 10, there was 
nothing else to do but come to Tech. 
Although her first love was chem
istry, she would like to go into bi
ological work when she is graduated 
this spring.
Her achievements, however, have 
not been limited to science, for she 
is president of her fraternity, Delta 
Delta Delta, vice president of Pan 
Hellenic Council, a member of Sci
ence Club, Womens Guild, and 
Glee Club.
As you can see, she has kept her
self busy during her years at Tech. 
In her spare moments (?) there is 
nothing she enjoys more than a 
good book and a nice warm fire
place.
Also, among her likes are 
hockey, football, or any other spec
tator sports. Golf, however, is her 
game, and during the summer she 
spends most of her time on the 
green (we hope!). Golf seems to 
hold some weird fascination which 
lures her on. And believe me, Casey 
is not lured on easily. Proof: She 
simply loaths Sinatra!
In this world there are two other 
things she abhors  men who are 
conceited and people who keep her 
waiting. She is convinced that the 
human race would be on the up
ward trend if these two vices 
could be eliminated.
An ideal evening, in her estima
tion, would consist of dancing away 
with the man of her dreams. And 
so we came to the subject of men. 
(It always ends up this way!) Casey 
is of the opinion that a dream man 
Continued on page 4
Rushing up to my victim I read
ily informed her that she was being 
interviewed for One Of The Girls. 
Assuming her characteristic half
smile, half-frown expression, she 
exclaimed, Oh, you mean youre 
going to ask me all about men and 
stuff? Sez I, Whos doing the in
terviewing? Now Im taking over! 
Casey, the girl with a twinkle 
in her eye, a dimple in her cheek, 
and a gurgle (really) in her voice, 
was born but four years ago. Helen 
Kathyrn McKean, her predecessor,
I am told, had many of the same 
characteristics. However, when the 
McKean girl left Cannonsburg 
High, and came to CIT, she also left 
Helen Kathryn for the nickname 
Casey, which, promoted by a Big 
Sister, was so unanimously accepted 
that Helen K. didnt have a chance.
For an infant, Casey has accom
plished quite a bit. She is now a 
senior in the General Science De
partment of Margaret Morrison.

---------------------------------------------------

I TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Yearbook Staff Picks Q. ), Me*t Quebbeal . . . 
Five Thistle Queens
At an election held by the Thistle 
staff, five senior girls were selected 
to enhance the pages of the Thistle 
as Queens. These lovely ladies were 
chosen on merits of poise, charm, 
and personality. Nominees were 
picked by each of the sororities and 
by the independent women. The 
1945 Thistle Queens are:
Peggy Cole 
Rea Simon
Jane Musser Fredericson 
Marge Volk 
Doris Fast
Peggys activities include presi
dent of Kappa Alpha Theta, Mortar 
Board, secretary of Interhonorary 
Council, and Technical layout edi
tor. She is a P. and D.
Rea, an independent, is a mem
ber of the Home Economics depart
ment, president of Mortar Board, 
and a member of the Modern Dance 
Club.
The Tri-Delt nominee, Jane M., 
is a member of Mortar Board. She 
is taking Nurses Training, and in 
private life she is a missus.
Marge Volk is a Delta Gamma 
and an active member of the Home 
Ec. Club. Her other interests center 
around the Costume Ec. Depart
ment.
Doris Fast was selected by the 
Kappa Kappa Gammas as their rep
resentative. She is one of the very 
active members of the Drama De
partment and will soon be seen in 
the forthcoming Shakespearean pro
duction.
Home Ec Club Entertains
The Home Economics Club is 
planning a Christmas party to beat 
all on Thursday, December 14, from 
7 to 10 in Recreation Hall, Margaret 
Morrison Building. All members are 
expected to come as it will be their 
first chance to really become ac
quainted with everyone in the 
club. Of course, anyone interested 
is cordially invited to attend. There 
will be singing of Christmas carols 
and a chance to use your ingenuity 
in old-fashioned charades.
In the picture above are four former Tech students, members of the 
P. and D. department, who left school about a year ago. The picture was 
taken in North Africa where the boys were serving in the Engineers 
Modelmaking Department. From right to left are Virgil Cantini, extreme 
right, Douglas Pickering, Herbert Hartman, and, on the extreme left, 
Raymond Fisher.
Cheerleaders Augment 
School Spirit With Pep
Little by little the old school 
spirit of C. I. T. is filtering back in
to college life. The cheerleaders 
have gathered a few new Techites 
into the clan. We still have Augie 
Binder, Irene Surenda, Andy 
Groomes, and Jackie Alexander to 
cheer us on to victory and the new 
comersMarty Moore, Betty Koester, Ginger Hall, Natalie Williams,
Dick Huntoon, Dick Eschenbach, 
and Scottie Yurchison.
The new life, in the group was 
selected from a large group of 
freshmen try-outs from all the 
schools. The group is bubbling 
over with pep, vim, and vitality 
ready to make every home game 
our game. Back the laryngitis 
kids in the red and white and vic
tory is ours.
APO Affair Features 
Dancing, Refreshments
Alphi Phi Omega will hold its 
second fall get-together at Carnegie 
Union next Friday, December 16. 
Dancing and refreshments will be 
the order of the evening.
APO, as it is called, is an organ
ization of former members of the 
Boy Scouts of America, who wish 
to continue their service activities 
while in college.
Faculty Appointed
The new members of the Con
ference Committee have been elect
ed. Professor Clara A. Miller has 
been chosen to represent the Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College 
and succeeds Professor Christine 
McBride. The representative of the 
Division of Humanistic and Social 
Studies, the Department of Physical 
Welfare, the Department of Mili
tary Science and Tactics, and the 
Library School is Professor Lester 
M. Beattie who succeeds Professor 
Robert D. Gregg.
AIKEN-FORBES 
TAILORING CO.
CLEANING and PRESSING 
ALTERING and REPAIRING
We Call and Deliver 
5817 Forbes street HAzel 3601
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
TURN OFTEN 
TO YOUR BANK FOR THE 
COUNSEL OF EXPERIENCE
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
You And Your
Out-of-Town Friends
will find comfortable 
accommodations 
at
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make your reservations 
well in advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS 
Tech Service Men and Women Are 
Especially Welcome
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
MAyflower 7700
When U. S. warships go into action, telephone equipment 
transmits orders instantly, clearly. For the huge battleship 
"Wisconsin, Western Electric supplied two systems using 
equipment designed by Bell Telephone Laboratories.
1. Sound powered telephone systemwith 2200 instruments 
connecting all battle stations. These battle phones operate on 
current generated by the speaker's voice, so damage to the ships 
electrical power supply cannot interrupt communications.
2. Battle announcing systemwith 20 transmitter stations 
and over 300 giant-voiced loudspeakers.
Helping to supply "battle talk equipment for use at sea, on 
land and in the air is providing important work for many col
lege graduatesboth men and womenat Western Electric.
During the 6th War Loan Drive buy more Bonds than everI
Western Electric
IN PEACE...5QUBCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE 8ELI SYSTEM,
IN WAR ...ARSENAL Of COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
SsL

---------------------------------------------------

4THI, CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1944The Plaid
Plans for Dinner Dance 
To Be Announced Soon
Plans for the second annual Hol
iday Dinner Dance are progressing. 
Final arrangements will be an
nounced within a week by the com
mittee in charge. Several hotels 
have been contacted with a view to 
making the party a big success.
Personal notice contact will be 
sent to all evening students as soon
jdeite/i to. tUe Cditon.
The opening of Room 130, to be 
used as a waiting and study room 
by all evening students, was ac
claimed by many as a very good 
deedone for which the Evening 
Council is to be commended. Good
ness knows that room was long 
needed as a place in which one could 
do his homework while waiting for 
his driver to appear. Even the sofa 
is very appropriate as one often de
sires to catch a few winks of sleep 
instead.
My purpose in writing this is both 
to commend Student Council for 
its foresight and effort and to call 
its attention to the present poor 
lighting within the study-room. 
Perhaps it is not good taste both 
to commend and to criticize at the 
same time; but nevertheless the 
lighting is very inadequate for a 
study room. The student body, I 
feel, would greatly appreciate this 
further improvement and would be 
indebted to Council if the lighting 
were improved.
CdUo^iai
Due to the curtailment of finan
cial aid to the Tartan by the Insti
tute, it has been necessary to cut 
the Tartan down to four pages and 
the Plaid page to a half page issue. 
In an endeavor to return the Tartan 
to its past status a Market Survey 
Poll has been conducted to show the 
prospective advertiser the spending 
power of the student body. Since 
more ads are the only cure for the 
present condition, the Plaid in be
half of Evening Student Council is 
asking that all who are interested in 
earning points for an Insignia 
Award can do so by soliciting adver
tising from their respective employ
ers and other business establish
ments. Those interested can do so 
by contacting the Editor personally, 
or by sending a note in care of the 
Plaid Editor, Box 362. This is a won
derful opportunity for those people 
who are endeavoring to get into the 
advertising field. You can establish 
good contacts for your future plans 
and at the same time help a good 
cause in its present crisis.
The Plaid
Editor 
Joseph M. Rymar
News Editor
Mary de Maria Associate EditorsRuth McGraw Arlene McMurray
Page edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Tecbnolofy. All views o> opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School Staff.
Staff
Olive Baumgardner Florence Chorba Virginia Ehnl Thelma Kitchen Irene Koemer 
S. W. Marcinizyn
Fred Vichich
as the complete program has been 
decided upon. The date set for the 
affair is Saturday, January 6.
If you see a pretty Irish miss with 
brown eyes that actually laugh, 
youll know that she is none other 
than Arlene McMurray. Arlene is 
an Associate Editor on the Plaid this 
year, but she is not content to mere
ly sit back and enjoy this title. 
Quite to the contrary, she is a faith
ful worker on the staff and can be 
seen every Friday evening working 
very diligently in the Plaid office. 
However, this is not all that Arlene 
does. She somehow finds time to act
as a representative on the Evening 
Student Council and is also the 
newly appointed President of the 
College of Fine Arts. She is active 
on the Social Committee and has 
shown a very capable hand at party 
decorating.
This is Arelenes second year at 
Tech, and last year she earned her 
first award. When there is any work 
to be done, you can call on Arlene 
and feel sure that the task will be 
done well.
Most people work because they 
have to, but here is a girl who act
ually likes her work. Arlene is a 
steno-clerk for the Missouri Pacific 
Railroad and has just recently made 
the change to this position.
When Arlene isnt busy with her 
many school activities, she can be 
found swimming (often in Techs 
own pool), dancing, and horse-back 
riding. She is quite expert at the 
latter, though she would be too 
modest to admit it if you were to 
ask. She is very fond of music and 
likes most to listen to popular and 
semi-classical. Eating is one of her 
favorite habits and she can be seen 
doing this at least four times a day. 
As to her future ambition, she says 
she hasnt any in particularjust 
wants to be happy; and she refuses 
to marry until positive she has met 
the right fellow.
Return Your Ballot
Please return your Market Sur
vey Ballot as soon as possible in or
der that the Tartan Staff may util
ize the results to aid them in their 
soliciting of advertisers. You may 
return your ballot to Mr. Dale McKelways office, 255-C, I. H., or to 
the Plaid Editor, Box 362.
Basketball
Continued from page 1 
Morinello spurred a drive for nine
teen points. This halftime lead of 
29-20 proved too much for the Case 
engineers, and a fairly even final 
half tucked it away.
The substitution of Morinello for 
Scioscia in the starting lineup was 
the only change from Tuesdays 
game at Beaver Falls. This strength
ened the aggressive Klein-Clougherty combination, and Ed Snyder in
jected some spirit for the second 
and third quarter. Over on the Case 
side of the ledger, Norm Meade was 
high point man, and Tom Jenike did 
most of the damage on the floor.
Just what preparations Max ex
pects to make for the inevitable 
coming of Westminster this Satur
day, no one can say. They have ter
rific height, and aparently a wealth 
of material. We just watch and 
hope they dont break their score 
into three figures.
The Box Score:
Carnegie G F P Case G F PKatselas ...... 4 0 8 Mann ............... 3 0 4Clougherty ... 3 0 6 Meade ............... 5 3 13Theodore ... 7 5 19 Kanda ............... 0 1 1Klein ........... 1 2 4 Ziska ................. 2 1 5Morinello .... 1 2 4 Jenike .............. 4 1 9Snyder ......... 1 2 4 Park ................. 1 2 4Scherb ......... 1 0 2 McWherterl ... 1 0 2Scioscia ......2 1 5
20 12 52 16 8 4
Soph-Frosh Party
Continued from page 1 
lie Utzler, Lou Emmel, Lois Shoop, 
Marge Dr. Dawes Reno, Jean Boltey, Janet Murray, and Mary Jane 
Horbridge, the three students, and 
featuring Clara Dinah Herron. 
These skits included many clever 
songs, imitations, and jokes that 
were strictly off the cob.
With the promise of a prize as an 
incentive, we went to the Tech 
Olympics in variousteams com
posed of both Freshmen and Soph
omores, to compete for the first hon
or. Each team submitted a contest
ant to each of the races, and the de
cision of the judges was final. It 
would be hard to say which team 
was the most vociferious, but Lar
yngitis High won by popular con
sent.
PERSONALITY 
BEAUTY SALON
5815 Forbes Street EXPERTS IN ALL BRANCHES OF BEAUTY CULTURE
JA. 4465
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
One of the Girls
Continued from page 2 
should be tall and dark, not too 
handsome, not too homely, but 
j-u-s-t right! (Drool, drool!) Of 
course, this is, more or less, in the 
nature of a post-war dream.
Well, now you all know more 
about one of the girls, an all-round 
grand personCasey McKean.
Turkish Army Officers 
Enrolled In Metallurgy
Six Turkish army officers are now 
enrolled in the Department of Met
allurgy at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. A seventh is expected 
to enter soon. These men are all 
graduates of a Military Lyceum and 
have attended Robert College in 
Istanbul.
The officers are Clemal Atay, 
Resat Aynaoglu, Cavit Buyukmihic, 
Arif Zaki Cankatan, Nevzat Mehmet 
Erkun, and Ibrahim Gunaly.
Student Employment
GirlsCompanion for lady on Wednesday and 
Sunday, 7:30-9:30.
Girls needed for field work for Bureau 
of Statistics.
Girls needed for holiday work.
BoysLabor jobs over the holidays.
Boys and Girls
Boys and girls with good telephone 
voices to make appointments.
Anyone who can run a projector, here at 
the school.
ART CINEMA
809 Liberty Ave. Near Wood
Starts Christmas Day
The Story of a Strange Week-end of Nerve Tingling Excitement . . .
48 HOURS
LESLIE BANKS  FRANK LAWTONNo Hitchcock Thriller is Possessed of Greater Cumulative Suspense.N. Y. Post.Excellent ... A Thrilling Theme . . . Completely EngrossingN. Y. World-Telegram.
Katharine Dunham Dancers CARNIVAL OF RHYTHM
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
HA. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Elaine Martin Frank Mihelich Dorothy Papa Milton Ryan Dorothy Shields 
Lois Schultz
