[he Tartan
Volume 67Number 10Wednesday, November 8, 1967
AFPFTo AFPPT oRa lpPhD,Hm
The American Foreign Poli
cy Forum will celebrate Dow 
Chemical Companys recruiting 
visit to oampus with a TGIA 
(Thank God Its America) in 
the Skibo lobby tomorrow from 
noon to 2 p.m. Music will be pro
vided by the Reynolds Blues 
Band, an electronic blues-rock 
group from Pitt.
Dow Chemiical of course, is 
the chief manufacturer of na
palm and other various defoli
ants and biological - warfare 
weapons used by the American 
armed forces in Vietnam. In the 
past month, Dow recruiting 
teams have been the target of 
anti-war demonstrations at sev
eral universities.
The Ameripan Foreign Policy 
forum (AFPF) is a newly-acti
vated organization of about 50 
C-MU students opposed to the 
Vietnamese campaign. George 
Madaras, a grad student in psy
chology and a member of 
AFPF/s three - man Executive 
Committee, explained the signi
ficance of the TGIA: If we 
were in Vietnam instead of in 
America, wed very likely be 
getting bombd with napalm and 
other Dow products. So, Thank 
God its America.' 
Madaras went on to explain 
that the TGIA is not to be a 
demonstration nor a front" 
for a propoganda attack. We
re going to hang one bulletin 
board on the wall in the lobby, 
says Madaras, and on this 
board will be posters explaining 
why they disapprove of the use 
of napalm and biological war
fare, and why we think Dow is 
more open to censure than oth
er companies doing work for 
the Defense Dpartment. But we
re not going to pass out leaf
lets or grab people by the col
lar, and were not going to go 
downstairs (in Skibo) and ha
rass the Dow interviewers.
The aim of AFPF, as expli
cated by Madaras and outlined 
in the groups constitution, is 
solely to disseminate informa
tion and provoke discussion 
on the Vietnam situation and 
other matters of American fore
ign policy, particularly in Asia.
At a meeting last week, mem
bers of AFPF unanimously 
voted down one motion to forci
bly restrain Dow from inter
viewing and to another motion 
to petition the school to prevent 
Dow from coming on campus. Ac
cording to Exec Committee 
member Lynda Vogel, a junior 
English major, Dow has just 
as much right to talk to peo
ple as we, or anyone else, do.
AFPF also decided not to af
filiate with Students for Peace, 
Students for a Democratic So
ciety (SDS), or any other mili
tant national peace organiza
tions. The idea of non affiliation, 
as expressed by several mem
bers at last weeks meeting, is to 
maintain a flexable organiza
tion and allow for a broad 
spectrum of opinions  from 
draft-card burners to fence-sitters and out-and-out imperial
ists, even.
Originally recognized as a stu
dent organization two years ago, 
AFPF was virtually last year. 
It was reorganized this year by 
ex-member Bill Vandivier, facul
ty adviser Dr. James Hastie, 
and the members of the present 
Exec Committee, including Ma
daras, Vogel, and junior English 
Major Peter Weinberg.
The group has petitioned Dean 
Brown for a budget of 2,900 dol
lars. In keeping with the policy 
of dissemination of informa
tion, most of this budget is to 
be used to bring guest speakers 
to C-MU. AFPF plans to invite 
speakers from both sides of 
the Vietnam question, includ
ing such people as Barry Goldwater and William Buckley.
Price Increase 
Possible In Grill
Chairman of Student Food 
Management Council, Tony 
Lawrence, announced at the re
cent meeting last Tuesday dl
l-67) that those using the snack 
bar in Skibo may have to pay 
a higher price for food, if they 
do not begin clearing their tab
les of trash like they are sup
posed to. The mess caused by 
students leaving trash on tables 
is becoming an alarming and in
creasing problem. When we 
placed small signs on tables 
asking people to bus their own 
trash, they were destroyed and 
ignored. The only way to keep 
the grill cleaner is to have a 
staff member, full-time, const
antly clearing tables and noth
ing else. Though no definite 
prices were mentioned specific
ally, Lawrence did state that: 
Prices on some items would be 
raised $.05 in order to pay for 
this extra employee, and coffee 
would be the first to go, in all 
probability, up to $.10 and $.15
The TARTAN and STUDENT 
FOOD MANAGEMENT COUN
CIL urges all students, faculty 
and staff that use the snack 
bar to dump all disposable trash 
into the paper bags both up
stairs and downstairs so that a 
price increase will not be nec
essary.
RETURN 
PROOFS
ONE WEEK ONLY
nRRh d3 SKIBO
NOVEMBER 6-10
10 H.h.- 1 p.h. Hnd 2-6 p.h. 
After the tenth, proofs must 
be returned to Gimbels, 
downtown, Photoreflex, 5th 
floor.
SPnDRFs TpHT hDssPd bPDng 
ppRTRgFHppPd Rn ,Hhpus 
hHy gR TR ADhbPms Hny dHy, 
MRndHy TpFRugp SHTuFdHy 
bPTaPPn 11 H.h. Hnd d p.h. 
On MRndHy Hnd TpuFsdHy,
11 H.h. TR 8 p.h.
Ballet Premieres 
In Black and White
A new ballet company, com
pany of Pittsburgh residents, 
mainly students at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse School of the 
Theatre, will make its premiere 
performances in a mosaic bal
let entitled Noir et Blanc, on 
Monday evenings, November 6,
13, and 20, 8:30 pm, at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse. Included in 
the cast of 50 are professionals: 
Jewell Walker, Jane Hillyer, 
John Ocohipanti, Jan Rincones, 
Akeva Blazia, and Mondule Bonessia. Susan Bowser, C-MU 
sophomore, will also appear in 
the production.
The production, directed and 
choreographed by Nicholas Pet
rov, includes every form of 
(Continued on Page 12)
Officers Request 
Return of Sign
l-Mm STudPnTs lpRRsP 
InTPFnHTDRnHm WDnnPFs
C-MU Jury, left to right, Tom Merriman, Dan Brash, Suzanne Knnl,
and Hug Kepets.
Tartan Photo by Jerry Siskind
In the early hours of the 
morning one day this past week, 
some fiendish prankster re
moved and absconded with the 
Scobell Hall sign from the 
front of our building. The offi
cers of Gamma Lambda and 
Club 208 would greatly appre
ciate any information on the 
whereabouts of our sign, to be 
left somewhere in the Scobell 
Hall laundry room. We thank 
you very much.
JournalismHonorary 
Calls New Members
Pi Delta Epsilon, national 
journalism honorary society, has 
called the following students to 
membership:
Pamela Bartl, Daniel Brush, 
Ginny Cannon, Alan GLarey, Ele
na Eismann, Robert Fisher, 
William Garland, Harvey Gillis, Joanna Higley, James Janke, 
Lynne Johnson, Hugh Kepets, 
Susanne Lindamood, Ken Lutz, 
Barbara Moses, James Neumeister, Barbara Rosenthal, Karen 
Rossi, Anne Runninger, Jerry 
Spiegal, Nancy Young.
These individuals have met 
all requirements including 
scholastic standing and a rec
ord of service to his publication.
The important decision of se
lecting the winners in the Car
negie International Exhibition 
of painting and sculpture last 
week was in the power of four 
Camegie-Mellon students. The 
jury was confronted with the 
same difficult situation as U. S. 
sculptress Louise Nevelson, Lon
don Gallery director. Norman 
Reid, and Venice Bienale affili
ate Dr. Umbro Appollonio. The 
jury, selected by the Carnegie 
Institutes Gustave Von Groschwitz, consisted of Tom Merriman, senior sculptor; Dan Bush, 
junior painter; Suzanne Kuni, 
senior art ed.; and Hugh Keptis, senior painter.
The jury chose a total of 11 
prizes. Surprisingly, only one of 
C-MUs jury awards correspond
ed wtih one of the awards given 
by the Museum jury. This award 
was the Painting award given 
to Francis Bicon for his por
trait of Lucran Freud. Four oth
er $2000 awards were given. 
These included two paintings
Telescoped Rooms by Italys 
Valerio Adami, and Self Por
trait by Andy Warhol; and two 
sculptures: Painted Sculptures 
by Stefan Gierowski of Poland, 
and Women in Bath by Jean 
Ipousteguy.
In addition to selecting win
ners, the jury was also - asked 
to select any number of pur
chase prizes for the museum, 
with one restriction  to select 
an oil painting. The painting 
chosen was Alberto Burris' 
Large White Painting. Also 
chosen was Julio LeParcs Con 
tinual .Light .with .Twisting 
Forms. Sculpture purchase 
prizes were awarded to Richard 
Lippholds The Beautiful Burdens and Etienne-Martins Dwell
ing No. 9.
The jury found the decisions 
to be extremely difficult to 
make. The members had to try 
to remove all personal feeling 
for the art in an attempt to 
judge the art on purely esthetic 
grounds, looking for general 
qualities of good. The pieces 
which the jury selected did not 
represent their true feelings 
about the works, but were 
chosen because they seemed to 
stand out above the entire group 
in some manner.
Tartan Photos by Gordon Morris 
Gustave Van Groschwitz, direc
tor of the Museum of Art.
TpP oPHdmDnP fRF TpP TuPs
dHy, NRvPhbPF 21 THFTHn 
pHs bPPn hRvPd TR TpuFs
dHy, NRvPhbPF 16. Amm ,uF
FPnT nPas HFTD,mPs husT bP 
Dn nR mHTPF TpHn FFDdHy, NR
vPhbPF 17.

---------------------------------------------------

AFPT o R alp ahDah, R HTmnTdmFy, ,ovTmbTr 8, 1967
EDITORIAL
A nOLE IN THE FLOWEnS
Several weeks back, the Tartan printed an editorial concern
ing the non-student problem in Skibo. We feel that the problem 
can be viewed from more than one angle, and would like to pre
sent other views here.
The first problem to consider is the universitys role in this 
citys social structure. It seems fairly reasonable to believe that, as 
an educational institution, we should be in touch with the goingson of the society surrounding our ivory tower. Otherwise, we are 
educating people for something which quite probably does not 
exist. Since we must interact with society, we should have some 
concept of our role, including responsibility to the non affiliated 
individual.
Again, since we spend so much time in our educational ivory 
tower, we must either come out or stay in. Thiat is to say, if 
we are to interact with the individual, if we are to take a stand, 
it should either be whole hog or it shouldnt exist. To go half 
way would be damaging both to the individual and to the univer
sity.
With respect to the flower children who come here in great 
numbers, the above means that we should either have a construc
tive policy toward them, involving interaction and assimilation of 
them into parts of our community, or we should make an all out 
effort to get rid of them.
We have the resources to conduct an Upward-Bound type of 
program here for those who wish to drop out. With the craftiness 
which some members of the Psychology Department ought to 
have, we could even sneak in one of these programs by sending 
trained students and workers into the hordes.
But then, one must consider that if we are to make a cons
tructive stand on this, it can be viewed in two ways. Either we 
educate these people to our way of thinking, and in doing so learn 
much about their way of thinking, or we push them out into the 
real world, saying, There is reality to deal with. If you want 
to drop out, find someplace else.
Which brings us to another point for consideration. Most of 
these people are looking for a place where they can drop out of 
society. Our campus is a nice, safe place to do that. First, one need 
not leave town to drop out. Secondly, one can drop out on week
ends or eveningssort of on a part-time basis. Third, it is a nice 
place to come when you cut school.
Considering the last point, we are faced once again with our 
responsibility to society. Many of our daytime visitors are truants. 
Here we are, an educational institution, harboring refugees from 
other educational institutions. Our duty in this matter is dear 
cut. We must aid the truant officers in returning these kids to 
school. We cannot be a repository for juvenile delinquents.
As for the other points, we ourselves are dropping out of society 
by taking such a professional, ivory tower view of things. Our 
education, no matter what is said in the catalogues, is one of 
extreme professionalismand professionalism does not lend it
self well to liberality of thought or breadth of knowledge or sen
sitivityand all three are needed in this case.
So we are faced with a situation where two dissimilar groups 
both of which are outside the mainstream of societymust 
come together. It seems fairly clear that they cannot mesh with
out a positive program which will polish both groups attitudes 
and mature all those concerned.
Again, we consider the Project Upward Bound program here. 
If we have responsibility to one segment of the society, then it 
follows that we have an obligation to the whole of it. Unfortunate
ly, PUB is an example of the university climbing half way out of 
its tower. The kids in the program are learning, apparently, noth
ing as far as social struoes and interaction are concerned. In 
like manner, the school is not deriving the benefit of the interac
tion between these representatives of the real world and our stu
dents. So, although, we would like to see a program of instruction, 
we would not like to see one of the PUB ilk.
What type of program should be instituted is difficult for us 
to surmise. We are not trained sociologists or psychologists. How
ever, one thing seems likely as an avenue of approach. Many, if 
not most, of these people want to create somethingbe it a social 
or physical creation. It is within our ken, especially as a univer
sity, to provide opportunities for constructive experimentation. 
Such experimentation comld easily involve our people aS" instruc
tors, monitors, aides, etc. Whatever our capacity, we would be 
providing some creative function ourselves. We would be making 
something of themhelping them to find themselvesas well as 
performing a service which the university alone can provide.
If we are not willing to do any of the above, we must follow 
a policy of getting rid of these people. To do so, once again we 
must be consistent. We must devise a policy of continual watch
fulness and elimination. And we must be willing to carry it out 
without fail or falter.
As can perhaps be seen, this problem is somewhat like an 
onion. One can peel layer after layer from an onion, only to find 
another layer to deal with. And all the while, it smells. But as the 
chef is not detered from incorporating the onion in stew, we 
should not be detered from coming up with a solution to our 
problem
The Tartan would like to put these above ideas out as food 
for thought for Student Senate, the student body, the administra
tion, and the faculty. Perhaps together we can arrive at a con
structive answer.
Letters to the Editor
Distraught Student 
Given Reply
It is rare that anything I see 
in print moves me to reply, but 
Mr. Fullers letter in the No
vember 1 Tartan has done the 
trick.
I sympathize with his feelings 
about the lack of china in the 
student cafeteria. It would be 
nicer to have it. But it just 
might be that the use of dis
posable dinnerware allows more 
efficient, and less costly service 
of the large number of students 
at the noon picnic. Let me al
so assure him that the food is 
no better when served on china 
in the faculty cafeteria.
I fail to see any inconsistency 
in our Placement Office apply
ing the same standards to po
tential campus interviews that 
the University has clearly es
tablished for fraternities or ap
plies in its admission policy. 
There probably isnt a more 
dedicated or competent group 
in the country, but if Mr. Ful
ler does not wish to make use 
of their services, there are nu
merous commercial organiza
tions which might find him a 
job  for a fee.
But with whom? Dow is out, 
obviously. Its a shame that they 
happened to be the worlds lar
gest manufacturer of a harm
less and useful plastic, poly
styrene, long before someone 
discovered that it could be used 
for napalm. How about the other 
chemical companies? No, they 
all make explosives, tear gas, 
defoliants or some deadly thing 
or other. The petroleum com
panies make aviation fuel and 
the other components of napalm. 
The aircraft industry? Obviously 
not. The auto industry? No, 
tanks, missiles, etc. Electronics? 
Sorry  missile guidance sys
tems and all that. Teaching? We 
prepare people for these dead
ly trades. What technological as
pect of our society can be left 
out? To be consistent, he must 
also deny their positive pro
ducts. To be logical, he cannot 
attribute a societies policies to 
one of its parts.
But fear not, Mr. Fuller. No 
one will attempt to make you 
talk to their representatives.
Stephen L. Rosen 
Assistant Professor 
Chemical Engineering
County Is Doing 
What Is Just
The planned demonstration 
against the Dow Chemical Com
panys recruiting team is rediculous. The use of napalm in 
Vietnam against the Communist 
aggressors is saving the lives of 
many Allied troops. Napalm is 
specifically used against enemy 
{rcops and not against civilians.
How can some people call the 
use of napalm, which has not 
been banned by the Geneva Con
ventions, immoral, while ignor
ing the fact that the Commun
ists use kidnapping and terror
ism against innocent civilian 
populations? Would these same 
people deny the besieged Ma
rines at Con Thien this vital 
weapon?
When is a weapons system 
immortal? Is the use of heavy 
caliber Soviet artillery rockets 
by the Viet Cong, against civili
an populations, moral? Recently, 
the Soviets signed a treaty ban
ning orbital thermonuclear wea
pons from space. Last Friday, 
the Defense Department anTop British Singers 
Appear In Concert
Norman Kennedy, Lou Killen, 
and Maggie Kerr Pierce, regard 
ed as the finest traditional sing
er in Britain, will appear in con
cert on Saturday, Nov.. 18, ait 
8:30 p.m. in the Carnegie Lec
ture Hall.
The program, which is under 
the auspices of the Pittsburgh 
Folklore Society and the Car
negie Ceilidh, will feature folk 
songs and ballads from Engand, Ireland, and Scotland.
Norman Kennedy, from Aber
deen, Scotland, is making his 
second appearance in Pitts
burgh. He performed to an en
thusiastic audience in concert at 
Carnegie-Mellon University last 
year. Considered to be the out
standing young Scot singer, 
Kennedy, a weaver by profes
sion, combines both the Gaelic 
and Lowland traditions in his 
style, which was molded through 
close friendship with two legen
dary singers, Jeannie Robertson 
and the late Annie Johnston.
Lou Killen, born in Gatesheadon-Tyne, England, is very well 
known in Britain as a result of 
his many recordings and radio 
and television appeamces. He 
matches a subtle accompanied 
singing style on the English con
certina with a repetoire of vig
orous songs and ballads from 
Northumbria, an area rich in 
minding traditions.
Maggi Kerr-Pierce was born 
in Belfast, Northern Ireland, and 
learned her songs in the streets 
of that city, and through travel 
throughout Ireland. In 1960, Pro
fessor Howard Glasser, founder 
of the Carnegie-Mellon Society, 
heard her perform at Edin
burgh University and considers 
her to be the finest of the young 
Irish balladeers. She has de
veloped an exciting style of un
accompanied singing.
Concert tickets are available 
at the Skibo information. They 
may also be purchased at the 
door on the night of the con
cert.
By mHsT WPdnPsdHy, NRvPh
bPF 3, 3Fd fmRRF oRnnPF pHd 
Hmm mR,ks saDT,pPd TR BEST 
mR,ks. AppFRvHm pHs bPPn 
gDvPn TR ,RhpmPTP TpP buDmd
Dng.
nounced that the Soviets were 
preparing a Fractional Orbital 
Bombardment system. Is this 
violation of the treaty moral?
The United States is in Viet
nam to stop Communist aggres
sion and we will stay in Vietnam 
until th*> Communist threat to 
Southeast Asia is eliminated. 
Demonstrations will not stop our 
country from doing what is 
just.
William El Keicher 
EE 69 
(Continued on Page 7)
Coffee House Priest 
Speaks at Duquesne
The Rev. Malcolm Boyd, un
conventional Episcopalian Min
ister, and author of Are You 
Running With Me, Jesus, will 
speak in the Duquesne Union 
Ballroom, Monday, Nov. 13, 8 
p.m.
Known as the coffee house 
priest, Malcolm Boyd has active
ly worked with college students 
almost since his ordination, first 
as chaplain as Colorado State 
and Wayne State Universities. 
Later he carried his ministry 
from the chaplains office and 
the chapel to the student hang
outsthe local beer spots, the 
discotheques, the freedom 
houses. He conducted Good Fri
day services last year accom
panied by jazz pianist Charlie 
Byrd at the well-known Broad
way United Church of Christ 
in New York. Last fall he ap
peared at San Franciscos 
HUNGRY I, reading prayers 
and meditations for his night
club audiences. In addition to 
this, The Rev. Boyd has spoken 
on various college campuses 
throughout the country, attemp
ting to force college students 
to come to terms with them
selves and their attitudes on re
ligion. '
Experience provides Boyd with 
any justification he may need in 
this attempt. After a childhood 
and adolescence of acceptance of 
the traditional aicolyte-choir boy 
attitude toward religion, as a 
student at University of Arizona 
he resented the Church for its 
sham and irrelevance. Work
ing with the film industry in * 
Hollywood after graduation, he 
decided to give the Church an
other chance and was again dis
appointed. Finally, however, the 
Rev. Boyd deaided that the only 
answer for him was involve
ment in the Church rather than 
escape.
In addition to his work on 
campuses and with college stu' 
dents throughout the nation, 
Malcolm Boyd has demonstrated 
his belief in involvement in 
other areas as well. He partici
pated in one of the early free
dom rides, before the civil rights 
movement became acceptable 
within the Church. He marched 
in Selma and picketed General 
Motors in Detroit against unfair  
ployment practices.
As a dramatist, Boyd has con
tinued in his push for involve
ment writing his plays in a 
frank attempt, as he himself 
admits, to disturb audiences 
and puncture smugness about 
human injustice.
His play Boy was banned 
at Michigan State University, 
for its use of obscene and vul
gar language, only to be broad
cast nationwide later by NBCTV. His books, like his best sel
ler Are You Running with Me, 
Jesus? and his new release 
Hunger and Thirst are the re
flections of a modem man, with 
modern problems and up-to-date rj 
attitudes toward them and ques
tions about them. His prayers 
are in the vernacular,the 
slang of the hippie, the artist, 
the construction worker  with 
no punches pulled. They have 
been lauded as searingly honest 
and have been condemned as 
hopelessly irreverent.
Rev. Boyds speech Monday >$ 
night is sponsored by the Du
quesne University Forum Com
mittee and is open to the puhlic 
with no admission charge.

---------------------------------------------------

HTmnTdmFy, ,ovTmbTr 8, 1967 R alp ahDah, R AFPT 3
SDgns Of TpP TDhPs
. . by .. 
APRFgP HHvH,p, S. J.
3 Under the impact oi the communications media that inter
weave and interconnect our thoughts and experiences with those 
of almost everyone around us on a global scalethe massage 
described by McLuhan, there emerge elements in the common 
consciousness which are loosely grouped into the class of fash
ions. What makes a fashion? Simply an item that seems to cap
ture our attention automatically, even effortlessly, which is on 
everybodys mind in one way or another, and hence glitters with 
an aura of popular attention.
Gone are the days when the word fashion only applied 
to the latest creations from Paris. Today, we have fashions 
^ in language, in styles of life, in ways of thinking, as well as 
in patterns of dress. Long hair (if one can believe Time Maga
zine) is an acceptable male style; folk music draws an audi
ence inconceivable 20 years ago. Mind-drugs are out of the 
laboratories and onto the streets; the flower may prove it
self more powerful than the sword. And, on the level of at
titudes, its peace now! we dont bereate, but tolerate; and 
if its new, its got to be good.
The temptation is to dismiss such particulars in the popular 
mind as simple passing fancies. Isnt that ail a fashion is? Simply
> a fascination of the moment, a meteor glowing to brilliance, but 
soon to burn out and be forgotten? To look at the record of history, 
there have always been fashions, some of which, to our eyes, appear 
pear ridiculous'like swallowing goldfish. Should fashions be 
ignored, because we know better? What trust can we put in 
them? Wont we laugh at todays fashions 20 years from now?
The key question, for the purposes of my inquiry here, is 
rather, What do fashions have to say to us? Are fashions 
merely relative and deceptive, or do they bear some message? 
For it seems to, too trival to regard them simply as fools* gold for the conscious mans imagination. This becomes apparent 
especially on the point of fashions in ideas and ways of thinking. 
The mini skirt is in, but styles change from month to month. 
What of fixation on peace as the only valuable condition to hu
man living, and the disgust for war and the waging of war? Why 
the glorification of youth and the young in every popular maga
zine. Such fashions (as indeed they are, if we think for a bit) 
seem more persistent than dress-length, more sweeping in their 
effects on the scale of daily life. Peace marches may be great fun, 
but they bespeak a new and restless awareness of social and hu
HintTrd
CominP!
Yes, Winter weather is rapidly approaching and 
we're all set for it with outerwear of traditional 
design and fine tailoring. We have a wide vari
ety of styles, colors and fabrics to please even 
the most demanding shopper in these cold 
weather garments by Mighty Mac and Zero 
King. Sizes 36-44.
OpTn DFily 10-5:30, HTm. aill 9
VctOTHIERS^/one, etc.
5406 HhL,Ua Sa.. ShFmydimT 631-8871
584o FODBpS hVp.. Sq. lill 4I-37I0
man values. How are fashions to be handled?
Fashions are detached from the status quo; some even in
terpret them as reactions to itlike the hippies dropping out 
of straight society. And yet fashions are pervasive to the minds 
of those within the status, quo; to be unconscious of them is to be 
irrelevant, out of touch. For fashions are a living commentary 
on the present situation; their generation is a sign of vitality to 
any mode of human interaction. The excitement that a fashion 
sparks becomes creative through the cueing effect it includes; 
advertisers make hay with these cues, for alterness to their mess
age is their entree.
But fashions should also alert us on a wider scale as well. 
Fashions provide keys to our present situation, insights into 
trends and directions for new developmentwhere things are 
going. How can we explain our sensitivity to the play of 
fashions in our consciousness of the world around us? The 
mechanism for our acute awareness of them is the on-going 
conditioning effect of daily conversation, news, sights-andsounds; its hard to avoid having them on our minds. They 
raise smiles or eyebrows. And, more significantly, they in
fluence the decisions made on everyday mattersnot only 
dress, but the way we speak to each other, the way we treat 
each other. If tolerance is the thing and moral absolutes 
are dead, then we start taking a different stance toward the 
reality of the differentness of people.
Fashions, as elements in our experience, deserve to be ques
tioned, to be probed for their meaning, what they have to tell us 
about ourselves, about each other, and about our world. This 
message becomes clearer the more willing we are to bend our 
thinking from habitual angles of thought, which tell us that 
nothing really changes. Fashions have a very way of forcing this 
process upon the mind; for if there is no such alteration, then 
communications break down: A daughter leaves home, a student 
burns his draft card, and 100,000 people march on the Pentagon. 
But if fashions spur new life into the horse, then we move for
wardor at least dont stand still. Fashions serve to unite on the 
level of immediate interest, design all the disparate opinions prolifer
ated upon them. But their critical feature is the direction they 
point, the new possibilities for human activity. Fashions are al
ways the unruly children of any tradition; their presence is not 
a threat or a distraction, but an assurance of the familys con
tinued growth.
Freshmen To Elect Student Senators
Freshman full-time day stuor from Don Baer.
dents interested in running for 
seats on the senate should fill 
out a petition and mail it to 
Don Baer by Nov. 11. Petitions 
can be picked up at Skibo 103
Potential candidates must get 
the signatures of at least 50 
Freshmen members of his con
stituency. Each person can sign 
only one petition.
WALLY'S
? MEN 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFEnS 
BATES FLOATEnS 
FLOnSHEIM
AU
Popular
Prices!
? WOMEN 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFEnS 
FLATS
onESS SHOES
 WHITE lLINIl oUTY SHOES 
3612 Forbes Avenue (Across from Strand Theatre)
 Between Classes or at Study Break -SCOTTY SjOPEN TO SERVE YOV  24 HOURS A DAY A X 
X9918 FOnBES AVENUE
Fnm
{ nOUTE 8, NOnTH OF ETNA7918 PENN A'DT
OriPinFl 
lot DoP ShoppT
Over 10,000,000 Hot Dogs Sold
OPEN 24 HOUnS 
FFPP oPmDvPFDPs TR Amm oRFhs fFRh 9 p.h. - 12:30 H.h. 
Minimum Order $2.00 
3901 FOnBES AVE.
621*118d  PpRnPs  621-7388  PpRnPs  683-9810
ChaplinyCityLights 
Scheduled lor Skibo
CITY LIGHTS, generally ac
knowledged as Charlie Chaplins 
greatest feature film, will be 
given its first Pittsburgh show
ing in over a decade on Wednes
day, November 15, by the Carnegie-Mellon Experimental Film 
Group. The second in a com
plete retrospective showing of 
Chaplins feature films, CITY 
LIGHTS brings Chaplin to the 
screen at the height of his car
eer, both as actor and director.
CITY LIGHTS stars Chaplin 
as the Little Tramp who almost 
makes good, and Virginia Cherrill as his most famous leading 
lady. Jean Harlow, at that time 
already Hollywoods best known 
sex goddess, makes her first ap
pearance with Chaplin in the 
famous nightclub sequence. Of 
all his features, Chaplin devoted 
the most painstaking effort to 
this film, and spent over two 
years in production, in that era 
an almost unheard of length 
of time.
CITY LIGHTS will be shown 
in the Skibo Ballroom at Car
negie-Mellon, at 4:30, 7:00, 9:00 
and 11:00. Admission is 75c. Be
cause of the usual heavy de
mand for tickets to the Chaplin 
screenings, it is advised that 
those who wish to be assured 
of a seat arrive at least 15 min
utes ahead of show time.
Following CITY LIGHTS, the 
Experimental Film Group will 
present: THE KID (December 
13), MONSIEUR VERDOUX 
(January 10), THE GREAT 
DICTATOR (February 20), 
THE GOLD RUSH (March 20), 
THE CIRCUS (April 17) and 
LIMELIGHT (early May).
Ralph D, Hammond
Mod Eye Wear
From and Lens Replacement 
Prescription Filled 
Contact Lens Center 
STUDENT RATESnRRh d0S 
MPdD,Hm AFTs Bmdg. 
3700 FDfTp AvPnuP
SU,BphM
The only sports car with 
5 year/50,000 mile warranty
Authorized AFuDealer W2**
S&S JEEP
PITTSBUnAH
SUNBEAM'SlMCA DEALER 
731-7000
213 PENN AV.
w; K !NSP; >\C
PHONE 
ST 1-5671
For best shapes in Pgh. come from...M. W. MOTORS
Pittsburgh's factory Dealer
VOLKSHhGp, ShLpS ft SpDVICp
ROUTE 8, ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

AFPT 4 R alp ahDah, R HTmnTdmFy, ,ovTmbTr 8, 1967
Fairless Lecturer Reports That 
USSR Lagging in Efficiency
As exemplified by the USSR, 
socialism is by no means a su
perior economic system from 
the standpoint of static efficien
cy, according to Dr. Abram 
Bergson, director of the Harvard 
University Russian Research 
Center.
Speaking at the 1967 Benja
min F. Fairless Memorial Lec
ture , Dr. Bergson pointed out 
that studies of the uses of avail
able resources show the Soviet 
Union is lagging far behind the 
United States and the capitalis
tic societies of Northwest Eur
ope in terms of efficiency.
Explaining that static efficien
cy refers to performance in util
izing technological possibilities 
existing at one time, Dr. Bergson 
pointed out that there is also a 
dynamic which has to do with 
a communitys capacity to add 
to its technological knowledge 
and improve its exploitation of 
such knowledge.
Dr. Bergson called attention 
to the emphasis laid on eco
nomic growth in the USSR 
and said that an outstanding 
feature of Soviet socialism is 
the transfer of responsibility ' 
for savings to a small group 
of political authorities able 
within wide limits to pursue 
such ends as they see fit.
He pointed out that under 
their five year plans, the sys
tems directors did manage in 
an initially backward country to 
raise the share of national in
come saved with exceptional ra
pidity to notably high levels 
rarely matched in the West 
But, he pointed out, so far as 
growth is generated apart from 
efficiency, the inevitable corol
lary is material denial for con
sumers. The Soviet government, 
through the years has promised 
the consumers much, he con
tinued, and at long last, it has 
concluded that it is expedient to 
redeem these promises in a 
greater degree then it has done 
hitherto.
If consumers are n o w t o 
share more fully in the fruits 
of growth, growth itself is not 
longer achievable to the degree 
that it was under Stalin merely 
through exaction of savings at 
the expense of consumption. To 
a greater extent than in the 
past, he said, it must be 
achieved through efficiency. 
Continuing his examination of 
efficiency, Dr. Bergson express
ed his belief that static efficien
cy in the Soviet Union is com
parable to that under capitalism
COLLpGp
aphClI,G
lOOPEnATIVE 
lOLLEAE nEAISTnY
H fFPP sPFvD,P Rf 10 dPnRh
DnHTDRns TR sRhP 200 ,puF,p 
FPmHTPd mDbPFHm HFTs ,RmmPgPs 
TpFRugpRuT TpP UnDTPd 
STHTPs. AdhDnDsTFHTDvP Hnd 
fH,umTy pRsDTDRns Dn Hmm HFPHs 
Rf ,uFFD,umuh. Pp.o. mPvPm RF 
nPHF dPsDFPd. SHmHFDPs $6,000 
$19,000 pmus fFDgnP bPnP
fDTs. InquDFP HT UnDvPFsDTy Rf 
MD,pDgHn BuFPHu Rf Ap
pRDnThPnTs, FPmHTDvP TR Dn
TPFvDPa s,pPdumP NRv. 1d, 
Id, 17, 18.
where the Marxist claim as to 
the economic superiority of so
cialism finds no justification.
ON PAR WITH ITALY
Focusing his discussion on 
what he termed quantitative 
data dealing with comparative 
measures of national income or 
output per worker and of na
tional income and output per 
unit of a composite of labor 
and capital, Dr. Bergson present
ed statistics showing that the 
USSR stands on a par only with 
Italy, and falls below all other 
capitalist countries. Soviet out
put per worker, he said, is but 
22 to 38 percent of the Amer
ican.
He pointed out that some 
reasons for the lack of static 
efficiency are the makeup 
(about 50 percent female) and 
education of the labor force, 
and said that adjusting for 
all of these factors still leaves 
the economic system of Soviet 
Russia behind all capitalist 
countries, except Italy.
Admitting that the USSR has
Firesides Held In 
Profs. Homes
International Firesides are now 
being arranged for the first se
mester of the 1967-68 school year. 
In case you are not familiar with 
the Firesides, they consist of 
five or six students, a few Amer
ican, a few foreign, who gather 
in a faculty home on a Sunday 
evening from about 7:30 to 
to about 10:00. Informal conbeen a latecomer in industrial
ization, Dr. Bergson pointed out 
that it initiated its first five 
year plan in 1928 and thus has 
had almost four decades to 
raise its stock of technological 
knowledge to the level of the ^ 
capitalist West. If it should 
still be at material disadvantage 
in this regard, it must be agreed,
I think, that the preponderant 
cause must be, not the late 
start, but inefficiency, he said.
Dr. Bergson added that in ad
dition to gauging the USSRs 
use of available supplies and 
resources, one should also take 
a look at the structurethat is, 
the kinds of consumer goods 
(Continued on Page 8)
versation fills the evening and 
it is a great oppirtunity to meet 
with faculty outside the formal 
classroom atmosphere. It is also 
an opportunity to meet fellow 
Carnegie-Mellon students, both 
American and foreign.
In the next few weeks, Fire
sides will be held in the homes
of Professors Bern, Cottrell, Gerton, and Bronfenbrenner.
If you are interested in attend
ing an International Fireside, 
please contact the Y office as 
soon as possible. Firesides are 
a unique experience and you 
are certain to find them reward
ing.
Campus Camara Headquarter*
FOD hU YOUD
AlOaOGDhAlIC ,ppDS /WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 FOnBES AVENUE 
PpRnP: 683-2181 Student Discount on Most Items
t***************4************ *********
Soup n  Sandwich Shoppe, *3nc.
MRndHy TpFu SHTuFdHy  6 H.h. TR 11 p.h. 
SundHy  10 H.h. TR 11 p.h.
oAILY SPElIAL - 6 H.h. - 11 H.h.
2 STnIPS BAlON - 2 EAAS - 2 PIElES OF TOAST 
HOMEFnIES - lOFFEE - dd,
ALL TYPES OF SANDWICHES AND SOUP
Depends on the giant. Actually, some giants are just regular 
kinds of guys. Except bigger.
And that can be an advantage.
How? Well, for one thing, youve got more going for 
VctOT Take Ford Motor Company. A giant in an exciting 
and vital business. Thinking giant thoughts. About develop' 
ing Mustang. Cougar. A city car for the future.
Come to work for this giant and you'll begin to think 
like one.Because youre dealing with bigger problems, the 
consequences, of course, will be greater. Your responsibilities 
heavier. That means your experience must be bettermore 
complete. And so, you'll get the kind of opportunities only a 
giant can give.
Giants just naturally seem to attract top professionals. 
Men that youll be working with and for. And some of that 
talent is bound to rub off.
Because theres more to do, you'll learn more. In 
more areas.
You'll develop a talent for making hard-nosed, imagina' 
tive decisions. And you 11 know how these decisions affect 
the guts of the operation. At the grass roots. Because you'll 
have been there.
If youd like to be a giant yourself, and your better 
ideas are in finance, product engineering, manufacturing, 
marketing and sales, personnel administration or systems 
research, see the man from Ford when he visits your campus. 
Or send your resume to Ford Motor Company, College 
Recruiting Department.
You and Ford can grow bigger together.
alp hMpDICh, DOhD, DphDBOD,, MIClIGh, 
h, pQUhL OAAODaU,IaY pMALOYpD.Whats it liketo workfor a giant?
Id like a big job please.

---------------------------------------------------

HTmnTdmFy, ,ovTmbTr 8, 1967 R alp ahDah, R AFPT 5
If your major is listed here, IBM would like to talk with you Dec. 5th or 6th
Sign up for an interview at your placement officeeven 
if youre headed for graduate school or military service.
Why is IBM interested in so many different people?
The basic reason is growth. Information processing is 
the fastest growing, fastest changing major industry in the 
world. IBM products are being used to solve problems in 
government, business, law, education, medicine, science, the 
humanitiesjust about any area you can name. We need peo
ple with almost every kind of background to help our custom
ers solve their problems. Thats why we'd like to talk with you.
What you can do at IBM
Whatever your major, you can do a lot of good things at 
IBM. Change the world (maybe). Make money (certainly).
Continue your education (through any of several plans, in
cluding a Tuition Refund Program). And have a wide choice 
of places to work (we have over 300 locations throughout 
the U.S.).What to do next
Well be on campus to interview for careers in Market
ing, Computer Applications, Programming, Research, Design 
and Development, Manufacturing, Field Engineering, and 
Finance and Administration.
If you cant make a campus interview, send an outline 
of your interests and educational background to Mr. C. J. 
Reiger, IBM Corporation, 100 South \C\
Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606. 1 M J |V| i 
Were an equal opportunity employer. r Si M.WOTRS

---------------------------------------------------

AFPT 6 R alp ahDah, R HTmnTdmFy, ,ovTmbTr 8, 1967
STAMP IT!ird alp DhGp 
DpGULhD 
MbDpL
h,Y $^3 
3 LI,p apXa C
ahT finTdt I,DpSaDUCaIBLp MpahL 
AOCKpa DUBBpD SahMA. Vi" * oSend check or money order. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No postage or handling charges. Add sales tax.
Arompt dhipmTnt. SFtidfFction GuFrFntTTm 
alp MOAA O.
A. 0. Box 186o3 LTnox SquFrT StFtion 
haLh,ah, Gh., 303o6
MENS PANTS 
FOR GALS
(Hnd AUYS TRR!)
MAN 
TAILOnEo FnEE! 
TR yRuF mPngTp
fFRh$15
AFrFphTrnFliF^
114 MpYDh, hVp.-OhKLh,D
PITT STOP
BOB FRY
Sport Car Champion
AfTPF bPDng TFRubmPd aDTp hP,pRnD,Hm pFRbmPhs TpP fDFsT pHFT Rf 
FH,Dng sPHsRn, BRb FFyPF Rf BFDdgP* 
vDmmP, ,HhP bH,k TR aDn 4 ,RnsP,u
TDvP nHTDRnHm FH,Ps, Hnd HmRng aDTp 
TpPh TpP SpRFTs lHF lpHhpDRnspDp 
Rf TpP NRFTpPHsTPFn UnDTPd STHTPs.
BRb fDFsT bP,HhP DnTPFPsTPd Dn TpP 
SpRFT apDmP HT TpP UnDvPFsDTy Rf 
PDTTsbuFgp. HP FP,PDvPd TpP oFDvPF 
Rf TpP yPHF HaHFd Dn 196d, aRn 
TpP nPgDRnHm SpRFTs lHF lpHhpDRn* 
*pDp Dn 1966, Hnd aDTp TpDs yPHF's 
TDTmP Hnd pDs dHFk gFPPn lpPvFRmPT 
STDngFHy aDmm FPpFPsPnT TpP NRFTp* 
RHsT HT oHyTRnH BPH,p, FmRFDdH In 
TpP "AhPFD,Hn nRHd nH,P Rf lpHh* 
pDRns."
TpDs spFDng, BRb Hnd RTpPF FH,Dng 
pPFsRnHmDTDPs, aDmm pFPsPnT H fDmh 
pFRgFHh Rn sHfPTy Hnd spRFTs PHF 
FH,Dng TpHT aDmm bP RpPn TR TpP sTu
dPnTs pPFP HT lAnNEAIE MELLON.
What kind do you smoke?
NONZA
PTPl TOBAllO
I
Whatever kind you smoke, 
you owe it to yourself to 
try MONZA Pipe Tobacco.
Your favorite pipe will give 
you more pleasure when 
you choose this imported 
blend of the world's fine 
tobaccos.movT up to
THE IMPOnTEo PIPE TOBAllO 
ONLY 30* A POUlH
For a COMPLIMENTARY pouch of MONZA PIPE TOBACCO, 
send 10* to cover postage and handling with this 
coupon to:
ROMICK'S INTERNATIONAL, INC.
P. O. BRx 3033, oPpT. 266 NO. HOLLYWOOo, lALIF. 91606 
(PmPHsP PFDnT)
MONZA
NHhP 
STFPPT 
STHTP .
lDTy
ZDp
&
,nd now... JWJ 
CODhL
A NEW AFTER SHAVE & COLOGNE
AFTEn SHAVE fFRffm $2.d0 
lOLOANE fFRh $3.00 
SWANK mn,.-SRmP oDsTFDbuTRF
Do you think a bright young engineer 
should spend his most imaginative years on the same assignment?
Neither do we.
Thats why we have a twoyear Rotation Program for 
graduating engineers who 
would prefer to explore several 
technical areas. And thats why 
many of our areas are organ
ized by functionrather than 
by project.
At Hughes, you might 
work on spacecraft, communi
cations satellites and/or tacti
cal missiles during your first 
two years.
All you need is an EE, ME 
or Physics degree and talent.
If you qualify, well arrange for 
you to work on several different 
assignments... and you can 
help pick them.
You may select special
ized jobs, or broad systemstype jobs. Or you can choose 
not to change assignments if 
youd rather develop in-depth 
skills in one area.
Either way, we think 
youll like the Hughes ap
proach.
It means youll become 
more versati le in a shorter 
time. r----------------------------------,
(And your ; HUGHES ! 
salary will 
show it.)
I__________________________JHUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY 
hpDOSAhCp DIVISIO,S
Some of the current openings at Hughes:
Electro-Optical Engineers 
Microcircuit Engineers 
Space Systems Engineers 
Missile Systems Engineers 
Guidance & Controls Engineers 
Spacecraft Design Engineers 
Weapon Systems Engineers 
Components & Materials Engineers 
Circuit Design Engineers 
Product Design Engineers
For additional information, 
please contact your College 
Placement Director or write: 
MF. nRbPFT A. MHFTDn 
HPHd Rf EhpmRyhPnT 
HugpPs APFRspH,P oDvDsDRns 
11940 W. JPffPFsRn Bmvd.
lumvPF lDTy, lHmDfRFnDH 90230
U.S. Citizenship is required 
An equal opportunity employer
CAMPUS 
INTERVIEWS
November 16
Contact College Placement 
Office to arrange interview 
appointment.

---------------------------------------------------

HTmnTdmFy, ,ovTmbTr 8, 1967 R alp ahDah, R AFPT 7
THE NEW PITTSBURGH 
FILM GROUP
MONDAY, November 13
mAI mirl Dave Mnysles: WHAT'S HAPPENING. THE BEATI.ES IN N.Y. The only true film of the Beatles, made on
0 their first visit to the U.S.
mRrn Van Meter: UP TIGHT. L.A. IS BURNING . . . SHIT. 
First Prize, Ann Arbor Film Festival, 1966. In color.
Hen Van Meter: SOME DONT. The real nitty-gritty. In coloi 
 and black and white. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.
U.O.M. Center, 4401 Fifth Ave., cor. of Belief eld, Oakland 
a^dmission $1.10 Membership Card 50c
TpP TAnTAN aRumd mDkP TR 
HpRmRgDzP TR RuF subs,FDbPFs 
fRF TpP dPmHy Dn TpP hHDmDng 
Rf TpP TAnTANS. TpDs dPmHy 
aHs duP TR dDffD,umTDPs Dn Rb
THDnDng TpP FPquDFPd hHDmDng 
mHbPms. In TpP fuTuFP aP aDmm 
HTTPhpT TR hHDm Hmm DssuPs Hs 
sRRn Hs pRssDbmP HfTPF pub
mD,HTDRn.
San Francisco Mime Troupe 
Was This Trip Necessary?
.. by . .
TRny LHaFPn,P
Well, now that they came, were seen, but failed tQ do much 
conquering, it seems to be the best time to write about the S. F. 
Mime Troupe from a different angle.
I saw the troup almost two years ago in Los Angeles at a 
college that was preparing to do a production of Stop the World 
I want to Get Off. They came in for a one night stand and per
formed a marvelous presentation, in true comedia style, of 
Molieres Tartuffe. They were brilliant. They used their surround
ings well and tastefully. Their costumes were dazzling and yet 
appeared to have been created with much interest and craft. The 
overall effect was that these people had an increasing place in 
contemporary American theatre. Also greatly in evidence was their 
consistent relating to the audience in a style that must have been 
very close to the original commedia troupes. One got the impres
sion that they had been on the road for years, as indeed they had. 
performing in small villages and occasionally for a nobleman 
or two, that they were indeed sometimes ruffians and certainly 
vagabonds. But the underlying force in their work was an almost 
hatred for their audiences. Everyone was a capitalist slob who 
was so dedicated to the establishment than humanism entered 
into their existence very little, it at all.
This time around the San Francisco Mime Troupe seemed to 
have little interest in their craft. Instead they resembled amatuerish boors in many instances. On display was Goldoni's LAmant 
Militaire, and it would be impossible for any other group to have 
lost the text so miserably. When they did Tartuffe, they would 
make some occasional jokes pertaining to Where they were play
ing or other pertinent subjects. The few topical gags scattered 
in and around Goldoinis play were pretty poor and seldom amus
ing. Stopping the show intermittently for an outburst about Viet
nam could have been effective but, for the most part, was done 
with tasteless vulgarity. I was waiting for someone to yell out 
angry arts is three blocks down and to your right.
The costumes for this production seemed to have lost their 
beauty and dash. Most of them were unimaginative and tatty. The 
set pieces were equally ordinary and something like out of an old 
George Cukor film.
Generally, the feeing was that people wanted to like the S. F. 
Troupe. I certainly went on Sunday night hoping they would be 
as great as I had remembered and as exciting. What I found in
stead was some rather unprofessional and unnecessary confusion, 
some faulty projection and a disappointing show. Worth mention
ing, however, was their almost flawless precision at certain mo
ments; notably the military sequences where the company .utilized 
the small stage well.*   
NEXT WEEK: A review of the new off-Broadway musical 
Now Is the Time lor All Good Men. The show, in rough form, was 
first presented for the Drama Department early last year as if it 
were being performed for potential backers.
Letters...
(Continued From Page 2)
Dow to be Met 
By Dance-Rally
Editor, The Tartan:*
Job recruiters for Dow Chem
ical Co. have met with obstruc
tionists and picketers at a ma
jority of their recent university 
visits. Many people are asking 
Why Dow, and not any other 
companies producing defense 
products? We believe the focus 
cf attention upon Dow is ra
tional, and that this position 
should be explained.
These demonstrations have as 
their impetus Dows production 
of Napalm-B, a mixture of lowgrade jet fuel and gelignite 
which sticks to anything it 
touches and typically roasts or 
suffocates its victim. Napalm, in 
particular, cannot be classified as 
a vital weapon which saves the 
lives of our boys, and which is 
effectively used against the 
enemy.
An effective weapon is one 
which can be focused with suf
ficient precision so as to pro
tect oneself and the innocent. 
Napalm is neither. It is frequent
ly dumped upon our own sold
iers (news release, 8/28/66), and 
kills significant numbers of in
nocent civilians every day in S. 
Vietnam (N.Y.T., 9/5/65). Com
mon are the estimates of ten 
civilians for every V.C. (ac
cording to special forces officers 
(Newsweek, 3/14/66.) In addi
tion to those killed are those 
maimed beyond belief by this 
weapon. Estimates of more than
30,000 S. Vietnamese children 
melted by this chemical are not 
unusual (S. F. Chronicle, 
2/15/66).
In addition to its production 
of Napalm, Dow has contracted 
to supply more than $57.7 mil
lion worth of chemical defol
iants for use upon the Vietna
mese land this year. This mas
sive use of anti-agricultural 
chemicals may cause long term 
debilitation of the civilian pop
ulation through the contamina
tion of food and water supplies 
(R. Carlson, The Silient Spring).
Unless we can assume that 
all the Vietnamese people are 
our enemy, we should not con
done the production or use of 
weapons so destructive and non
specific in application. As a re
sult, we are sponsoring a non
obstructionist rally which will 
protest Dows activities in an 
informative and entertaining 
manner, and one which will not 
result in adverse publicity for 
the University.
This dance-rally will be held 
in Skibo from 12 to 2 on Thurs
day, the announced day of the 
Dow interviews, with the Rey
nolds Blues Band. Letters of 
conscience to the president of 
Dow are also being circulated on 
campus which will be collected 
by the AFPF from collection 
boxes in Skibo and Baker Hall 
on Wednesday and Thursday.
George R. Madaras 
Lynda Vogel 
Peter Weinberg 
The Executive Committee of 
the American Foreign Policy 
Forum.
eooooooeoooooocwooooooooooooo
MUSIl HALLSAT. EVE.KOV. 4
SHOSHANA SHOSHAH
lTFminP doprFno of ahT IdrFTl ,FtionFl OpTrF dinPinP 
IdrFTli SonPd & ATccini, SchubTrt, ModFrt, aurinP dTlTction*
This poem was written by 
Judith Windt and printed in 
the 66 issue of PATTERNS. 
Bring your literary and art 
works to PATTERNS room 
51, Skibo. All work must be 
in by December 19.
Thoughts from Inside a TWA
A pomegranate tree,
A cliff-lined blue lagoon 
Of the mythical Pacific,
A face I think I love 
(One cant be too specific)- 
To this I wing my way, 
Having made my decision 
With utmost precision 
To exercise my freedom 
And leap into absurdity 
Rationally.
MUSIl HALLMON. EVE.NOV. 13 
oDFP,T fFRh SpHDn"TpP gFPHT Hnd sHvHgP HFTDsT," JRpn STPDnbP,k
MARITAS de PLATA
aDTp 3 PTpPF BFDmmDHnT AuDTHFDsT*SDnjPFs 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOI
EAlH oATE
SPECIAL for all PITT Faculty. Students and Staff.
2 *6.60 Ticket for the PRICE OF 1 
ORDER NOW by PHONE ONLV-922-2030 or 922-2031 
ALSO AVAILABLE AT Pin UNION BLOG.
ooooeoDooooooooooooooooooooooooe
CIVIC ARENA  8:30 P.M.
SUN., HOY. 26 and MON., NOV. 27
TIlKETS: S6. SS. S4, $2.d0
SEATS NOW ON SALE at: Civic Arena, Gat* $1; Kaufmanns; 
Gimbals; Homo's; II Nat1. Record Marts. MAIL ORDERS: Writ* 
and make chocks payable to Civic Arena, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219, 
 nclosinq self-addressed stamped return envelope and indicating 
performance desired.
A LKNNy LITMAH PRESENTATION
CRAZYNITEOifers 
Extended Curfew
Everybodys talking about it. 
When is it? Where is it? And 
most important, what is it?
It is being held this Friday 
night, November 10, from mid
night to 2:30 in Skibo. There will 
be a special extended curfew 
from 1:30 to 2:30 for Freshmen 
and Sophomore girls if they 
come. Admission is 50c, faculty 
members free. The proceeds 
will go to the Mortar Board 
Scholarship Fund.
What is it? Its a wild, fun 
happening of laughter and en
tertainment. What else? Its 
Bugs Bunny, Woody Woodpeck
er, Little Lulu, Mr. Magoo, Cas
per the Ghost, and Chilly Willy. 
Its Lord Jim; its a performance 
by Ceiledh; and its the A Phi 
O Coffee House. Is that all? 
No. Its Crazy Nite.
****
******
+
*?**
***
**I *??
I ***
*?*** '
\ SYRIA MOSQUE  8:30 P.M.
J FnI NOV. 10 Hnd SAT., NOV. II
-fc aickTtd: $3-$4-S5. ,ow on dolT Ft KFufmFnnd, GimbTld, lornT'd onm Aitt
StumTnt Union. MFll OrmTrd; O,p HppK O,LY; writT onm mokT chTck 
+ pFyFblT to LTnny L;tmon, SSoo HFlnut St., AFh., AF. 15o3o. AlTFdT Tnr modT dTlf FmmrTddTm dtompTm rTturn TnvTlooT Fnm dtFtT nioht wFntTm.
* h LI,,a LIaMh, ADpSp,ahaIO,
********

---------------------------------------------------

AFPT 8 R alp ahDah, R HTmnTdmFy, ,ovTmbTr 8, 1967
LpaapDS...
(Continued from Page 7)
Students Should 
Evaluate C-MU
Editor, The Tartan:
On May 17, 1967 you ran an 
editorial in the Tartan remark
ing, among other things, that 
it would be a good thing to have 
the students periodically evalu
ate the courses and faculty at 
Camegie-Mellon and thus pro
vide helpful feedback from the 
students to the faculty. I be
lieve that Pres. Stever has said 
that he favors this, too. It seems 
to me that now would be a good 
time to start discussing, perhaps 
in the Tartan, hw such a feed
back system could best be set 
up.
One possible system is to have 
astudent committee distribute 
questionnaires and collect the 
results. Another possibility is 
to have the administration hand 
out extra IBM cards to each 
student at spring registration on 
which the student could indi
cate (by using electrographic 
pencil) the student had taken 
in the fall semester. Good key 
questions are 1. Was the course 
interesting? 2. Were the questors explanations dear? The ad
vantage to using IB Mcards is 
that the results can be collated 
by machine.
Perhaps Pres. Stever has some 
ideas about this, in fact maybe 
he would like to write a quest 
column in the Tartan about it. 
An interested graduate student
FhIDLpSS...
(Continued from Page 4) 
being produced. At least in 
respect of quality and assort
ment, the Soviet bill of consum
ers goods must diverge far from 
any that might be optimal. The 
bill of consumers goods pro
duced in Western capitalist 
countries also has its limita
tions, but it could hardly be as 
dubious as that in the USSR. 
The Harvard economist con
cluded that only part of the evi
dence available on Soviet static 
efficiency had been considered, 
and pointed out that his next 
talk would examine the sources 
of Soviet inefficiency.
Dr. Bergson is the fifth Fairless Lecturer at Camegie-Mellon 
University. The annual series, 
sponsored by the Universitys 
Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration, is held as a me
morial to Benjamin F. Fairless, former board chairman of 
United States Steel Corporation.
A Camegie-Mellon University
professor Is taking a new look 
at air pollutions effect on health 
but his conclusions will be 
given in $ and t symbols, not 
medical terms.
C-MU News Service
the Tartan C
L E N W AN ETI K 
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor........................................................LARRY SIKON
Business Manger.....................................................JIM NEUMEISTER
Desk Editor ................................................SAZANNE LINDAMOOD
News Editor.......................................................ANNE RUNNINGER
Assistant Desk Editor ..........................Barbara Moses
Assistant News Editor ............................Rich Steffens
Sports Editor ...................................................Jim Janke
Assistant Sports Editor ...................Ralph Swobodc
Photography Editors...............................Gordon Morris
David Leavitt
Local Advertising Manager.........H. Karl Krummel
National Advertising Manager.........Fredda Simon
Layout Editor .........................................Ellen Blissman
Assistant Layout Editor ....................Marilyn Werner
Secretarial Editor .....................................Nancy Young
Printing Production Manager...................Henrik Lind
Circulation Managers....................................Bob Porter
Rachel Katzen
Editorial Advisor............................................E. W. Seley
Desk Staff: Linda Cameron, Susan Gordon, Carol Krueger, 
Betsy Payne, Barbara Schneiderman.
News Staff: Ricki Borden, Jenifer Digby, Beverly Spiro, 
Rachel Schwartz.
Sports Staff: Larry Anderson, Jon Arnold, Don Baer, Ed 
Dolbow, Ronn Finnin, Harold Herre, Alan Letzt, Tony 
Rees, Jeff Ruben, George Smith, Mike Smolens.
Advertising Staff: Carroll Swarmer, John Knechtel, Danny 
Pickholtz.
Business Staff: Hilary Kurzweil, Jayne Levin, Carol Le Bow 
Laura Warren, Tom McGuire.
Layout Staff: Liz Yellin.
Secretarial Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Virginia McKelvey, 
Lois Bender, Donne Cline, Harriet Nadel.
A story of the new-beat bold-tempo mods and minis... 
and a teacher who was strong and hip enough to make them 
cool it and call him Sir"!
COLUMBIA PICTURES PresentsSIDNEY POITIER
JAMES CLAVELL'S 
PRODUCTION OF 
vvTO SIR, WITH LOVE
apCl,ICOLOD*
17 th WEEK
kjrirttiririrk'kjt'kick'k'kir'k'kifkirtrk'kifirkir'kickirkirk'k'k'k'k'k+'k'k'k'k'k'k'k
JOAN
BAEZ
FRI., NOV. 17
8:30 A. M.
PENN THEATRE
TICKETS:
SS.50, $3.50. $4.50, S5.S0
NRa Rn sHmP HT KHufhHnn's, ADhbHms, HRFnP's Hnd 
Hmm NHT'm nP,RFd MHFTs. MHDm RFdPFs. WFDTP Hnd 
hHkP ,pP,ks pHyHbmP TR LPnny LDThHn, P.O. BRx 
d32, Pgp., PH. 1d222. PmPHsP Pn,mRsP sPmf HddFPssPd 
sTHhpPd FPTuFn PnvPmRpP.
LENNY LITMAN PRESENTATION ?
ClhalhM
AT CHATHAM CENTER 261-1001
j, RedfordFonda*
CHARLES U MILDRED
HIERS ^/*4Dep
-,s
25c Indoor Parking! Evenings After , 
ft 5 p.m. Sat., Sun & Holidays After 
 1 p.m. Indoor Theatre Entrance 
I from Garage, RED Level.
llll!llllll|lllll|M|ll|ll|ll|ll|lllll|ll|ll|lllll|ll|lllll|lllll|ll|ll|ll|lllll|ll|ll|ll|ll|ll|h|ll|ll|ll|ll|llllllllllllllllllilllllllll
| Splendid! A modern gothic tale of
I innocence and evil!  R Time Magazine
A movie you wont want to miss!
Judith Crist, the Today Show
MTtro-Golmwyn-MFyTrorxi FilmwFyd present
Dirk Bogarde in
Jack Clayton's Him of
Our MatherS House
in Metrocolor
SHADYSIDE
?iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiii!WALNUT STREET MU.2-1901illlllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllll
THE
MOST
BEAUTIFUL
MUSICAL
LOVE
STORY
EVER!
SCREENPLAY ANO LYRICS V PAOOUCEO Vs. FMK10pHp  hH, JhY LpD,pD  JhCK I HhD,pD  JOSlUh LOGh, 
TECHNICOLOR 70 mm WIDE SCREEN FROM WARNER BROS.-SEVEN ARTS v7aDI-Sahap ADpMIpDp, HpD., ,OV. 8
DpSpDVpD SphaS ha BOX OFFICp OD BY MhIL
SQ. lILL alphaDp
FODHhDD Ft MUDDhY | 
AIaaSBUDGl, Ah. 15o17 |
one,t c.FRYWW h avrk
PRICE AND PERFORMANCE SCHEDULEJ MATINEES Wadnasdoy................... S2 00I Soturdoy. Sundoy ond Holidoy* S? SO
| EVENINGS Sunday thru Thurtdoy............. SJ.75Friday Saturday, ond Holiday Ev S3.00
, Mon. thru ahur. 8:00 AM R fn.. SFt. 8:30 AM
1 - Sun. 7:30 AM
FOD alphaDp AhDaY h,D \ ? ....................
GDOUA I,FODMhaIO, ChLL ! . ...
GpDaDUDp CUDLpY 391-o755 chTckd or monty ormTrd pFyFblT to Sq lill ahTFtrT
NO. OF SCATS
STATE 
AT S
ZIP COOf 
TOTAL t
aICKpaS hVhILhBLp ha hLL AIaaSBUDGl ,haIO,hL Bh,K OFFICpS; SphDS, 
DOpBUCK SaODpS; ,haIO,hL DpCODD MhDaS; OD h,Y Sah,LpY HhD,pD alphaDp
-lliaillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMIIIIIIIIIIIIINIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIINIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIm

---------------------------------------------------

f W HONOR> 
PNB * M ( LION 
.CHARGE CARDS.
, 4tl7 BhUM BOULpVhDD ' phSa LIBpDaYR4o1-10S4 OAp,  to  MO,., aUpS., al ^  to S HpD., Ml. & Sha.
f BUY TH* >BRANDS YOU KNOW AT SAME PRICES L AS TNI^^IMITATIONS' ^
alp ap,DpD aDhA
229 S. HDHpmHnd AvP., EHsT LDbPFTy
SFt. FftTrnoon R 4 till 7 A.M. 
Jazz Session and Dancing with 
The Walt Harper Quintet 
HTm., ahur., Fri. R The Reid Jaynes Trio
jopuimm
lFRfT Av'Du HT HHhmPT STFPPT, PDTTsbuFgp, PH. I ST 13
STUDENT RATES  $1.50. Sat. $2-50 
BY POPULAR DEMANDS
hFapD alp FhLL
by ARTHUR MILLER 
Relentlessly Exciting . . . Ann Youens, Pittsburgh Point.
Flays nightly except Mondays through Nov. 12 
Curtain at 8:30; Sunday at 7:30.
lALI 621-444d FOn nESEnVATIONS
For Any Car
* OLD or NEW!
Hear The Mutic You WANT 
When You Want It!
SahDaI,G ha
4 aDhCK 
MODpL
 It TRANSISTOR
 GLEAMING CHROME
 SPEAKERS AND 
INSTALLATION OPTIONAL$1Q QC ,ODMhL DOH, AhaMp,a 
/m/Dm/W WITH APPnOVEo lnEoIT
ALL NATIONALLY ADVERTISED BRANDS
 I YphD FDpp HhDDh,aY II VOl F Al TO STLRFO IS INSTALLED tv OIR FACTORY EXPERTS
OVpD 50,000 ahApS
IN OUR LIBRARY FROM BACH TO ROCK
hSK lOH aO Gpa FDpp ahApS "9C J
? o LOChaIO,S ?
HM. Ap,, lIGlHhY ,phD 
MIDhCLp MILp SlOAAI,G Cp,apD Ahono 37o-3014 OAp, 10:30 h.M. to T A.M. DhILY
HTmnTdmFy, ,ovTmbTr 8, 7 967 - alp ahDah, - AFPT 9
LetMarcel Proust put you in thedrivers seat!
MRdPFn LDbFHFy^ 
d0Tp HnnDvPFsHFy ,RnTPsT.
At last! A contest for people who read 
without moving their lips! No maga
zine subscriptions, gasoline coupons, 
or entry fees. Just reasonable literacy, 
avisit to your favoritebookstore, some 
quick work with a pencil and you...
Yes, YOU can be the bewildered 
owner of this brand new, fresh off the 
line, 1931 Ford Model A Touring Car 
(a "GLASSIC, complete with all the 
latest developments including head
lights, side curtains, running boards, 
and steering wheel).
Who wants to give you this 1967- 
1931 Ford? Why, your friendly local
bookstore and friendly Random 
House, publishers of The Modern 
Library. You see, ever since 1917 (here 
comes the pitch, right? right!),The 
Modern Library has been offering the 
best of the worlds best books in 
hard-bound editions at paperback 
prices. During this 50th Anniversary 
Year, we want to say thank you (sure, 
and sell a few extra books) and so 
weve put together a mind-blowing 
contest open to everyone. Why dont 
you drop into your bookstore and get 
the official entry form (no purchase 
or theft necessary).
CMU BOOKSTORE
Do you buy 
ashirt
oralabel?
Original
HOUSE
INSUnANlE - MOTOnlYlLE ANo SlOOTEn
LOW RATES FOR ALL AGES
Trottnow Insurance Agency
281-6619 - Phones - 281-9000
PRIME ROAST BEEF
Served the Way You Like It
--PIZZA -
SEnVEo BETWEEN 7 P.M. Hnd 3 A.M.
nEE oELIVEnY TO ALLoOnMS! 
MINIMUM OnoEn $2.00
PHONE
621-1185, 621-7388 or 683-9820
Sit right down and start-now! 
EASV-FUN-QUICK-SIMPLE,ETC.
If you want a good shirt, 
look for a good label. One 
that means the shirt is styled 
to last. With rolls, tapers and 
pleats in the right places.
Like this Arrow "Cum 
Laude Oxford. Its a woven 
blend of Dacron polyester
checks, plaids, solids and 
stripes. All the things you 
look for in a shirt-for $7.00.
And in a good shirt youll 
find a good label.
The best labels come in 
our shirts. AFFRa.
and cotton with skinny 
boxed stripes of green and 
blue. Button-down collar, 
tapered waist, long sleeves. 
Perma-lron so it wont 
wrinkle.
And "Sanforized-Plus." In

---------------------------------------------------

AFPT 10 - alp ahDah, - HTmnTdmFy, ,ovTmbTr 8, 1967
UPSETS TITANS, 41-34
ATO Quarterback Mailey carries for a touchdown against Beta in
HUBKA LEADS TARTAN DRIVE WITH RECORD 5 TD PASSES
Quarterback Tom Hubka threw five touchdown passes as Carnegie-Mellon 
scored the biggest upset of the small college season, defeating unbeaten Westminster, 
41-34, Saturday.
Hubka threw two touchdowns 
each to Dick Bell and Joe Cherney and another to Ken Batorski as he picked apart the Titan 
defense on 17 of 31 passes for 
279 yards.
The Titans scored first after 
a C-MU punt from the threeyard line was partially blocked 
and went out of bounds at the 
five. Freshman Quarterback 
Dave Bierbach took it over two 
plays later and Bierbach ran 
over for the conversion.
Early in the second quarter,
Hubkka and Bell teamed up on 
a 52-yard pass and Cherney kick
ed the tying point.
The next time the Tartans 
had the ball, Hubka was hit at
tempting to pass, fumbled and 
Titan tackle Craig McNamara 
recovered at the C-MU 38. Two 
plays later, Bierbach threw a 
35-yar dtouchdown pass to End 
Glenn Nylander.
Near the en dof the half C-MU 
took over at its own 44 and 
drove 56 yards with the payoff 
coming o na three-yard HubkatoBell pass. Hubka completed 
seven passes in the drive. Cher
ney converted and the half end
ed, 14-14.
C-MU received the secondhalf kickoff and on th first 
scrimmage play Hubka passed 
to Cherney for 75 yards and a 
touchdown.
Two minutes later the Tartans 
had the ball deep in their own 
territory and Fullback Larry 
Getto broke loos eover left tackkle for 73 yards to the Titans
20. Hubka passed to Tony Bugel at the five and after two 
running plays hit Batorski for 
the score. The kick made it 28- 
14.
Westminster came right back 
on a sustained drive from its 
22 and scored on a Bierbach-toChuck Kurz from the nine. After 
the conversion it was 28-21 ear
ly in the fourth quarter.
After the ensuing kickoff 
Batorski broke loose around 
left end for 69 yards to the 
Westminster five. Three plays 
later Getto drove into the end 
zone, putting C-MU ahead, 35-21.
Westminster scored the next 
time it had the ball on a 56- 
yard drive wit hthe final 10 
yards coming on another Bierbach-to-Kurz pass.
The Tartans held Westminster 
the next time on its own 19. On 
fourth down, the snap from cen
ter was low and Smarigiasso, 
the Titan punter, was forced 
to run. He was stopped at the 
25, where the Tartans took over.
On the first play, Hubka pass
ed to Cherney for the TD and 
after Cherney missed the point 
score was 41-28.
Starting from their own 39, 
the Titans marched 61-yards for 
the final score of the game, Bierbcah getting it on a 24-yard 
run.
Hubkas five touchdown pass
es broke his own single game 
record of four set last year 
against Washington and Jeffer
son. It also raised his carrer 
total to 42 and his season total 
to 15.
the IM finals.
BTP came on strong in the 
fourth quarter of their quarter
finals match to defeat the Met 
Knights 21-10. Putting together 
a fine first half effort, the Met 
Knights held BTP to one touch
down and countered with one 
of their own to take a 9-8 lead. 
BTP picked up a first down 
to tie the score in the third quar
ter before scoring the winning 
points on a double pass touch
down bomb and a sweep around 
left end on a fourth down sit
uation.
In the semi-finals, ATO top
ped SAE 19-14 and BTP edged 
out GSIA 21-20. Both of these 
outcomes could have been dif
ferent if the rain did not cause 
passing difficulties and poor 
footing. SAE jumped to a quick 
2-0 lead when they nabbed the 
ATO quarterback in the end zone 
for a safety. Mailey came back 
to put ATO ahead, scoring on a 
run around left end. Another 
safety was scored when the 
SAE kickoff unit trapped the 
ATO runner behind the goal 
line. A Pottmeyer touchdown 
pass then gave SAE a 9-6 first 
period lead. SAE held a slim 
one point lead at halftime, but 
ATO forged ahead in a hectic 
fourth quarter which was mark
ed by a barrage of penalties and 
interceptions. The final score 
was ATO-19, SAE-14.
Matched up against an ex
perienced GSIA squad, BTP 
took advantage of a break ear
ly in the game by recovering a 
GSIA fumble of a punt which 
squirted into the endzone. BTP 
managed to pick up five more 
points but GSIA began to move 
and entered the final period 
trailing by a single point. Faced 
with a fourth down late in the 
fourth quarter and holding a 
six point lead, BTP elected to 
give GSIA the ball within the 
BTP 15 yardline. Since the sub
sequent GSIA score could only 
account for five points, BTP re
gained possession of the ball 
and a one point lead, and they 
held onto both for the remain
ing seconds of the game.
Tartan photo by Jerry Siskind
The championship game fea
tured ATO, last years winners, 
and an undefeated BTP squad. 
A large enthusiastic crowd was 
on hand to witness the match
up. Their cheering occasioned 
the referees to quiet them down 
since the teams could not hear 
the quarterbacks signal. BTP 
received the opening kickoff but 
three plays later were forced to 
punt. ATO was also unable to 
move on their first series of 
plays. A pass completion and 
a major penalty securred two 
points for BTP to give them a 
2-0 first quarter advantage. 
BTPs Zabetakis opened the sec
ond period with a 15 yard, six 
point touchdown pass to Barbin. ATO quarterback Mailey 
followed vicious blocks by his 
teammates on a kickoff return 
of 50 yards for a five point 
touchdown. After two long 
gainers were nullified by penal
ties, Sikoski pulled in a pass for 
a 40 yard gain and Zabetakis 
hit Barbin in the end zone while 
an ATO defender was hanging 
on his back. BTP held ATO for 
the remainder of the half and 
retained possession of a 14-6 
lead.
As the third quarter got un
der way, ATO picked up a first 
down when Mailey ran from a 
spread formation. A penalty 
against BTP moved the ball 
down to the two yard line. At 
this point, the BTP defense push
ed ATO back to the ten yard 
line in three plays, but Mailey 
found Chittim open on the five 
and he carried it in for a touch
down. BTP struck back when 
Barbin hauled in a long pass 
a stride ahead of the defender 
to score on a 46 yard play. This 
touchdown grab, his third of the 
game, put BTP ahead 20-13 en
tering the final period. Zabe
takis dashed around left end 
from two yards out with what 
seemed to be the clinching tally. 
But ATO, which is noted for its 
strong second half efforts, nar
rowed the margin to four points 
when Chittim held onto a pass 
(Continued On Page 11)
TAnTAN
j. anice, Editor 
r. swoboda, Assoc. Ed.
HARRIERS FINISH 
WITH 7-4 SEASON
The Cross Country Team fin
ished its season by winning one 
of three meets. On Wednesday 
the Harriers beat St. Vincent 
(19, 42) and lost to Cleveland 
State. (39-19). On Saturday they 
lost to Ashland (38, 17) finish
ing the season with a 7-4 duel 
meet record and first place in 
the Davis-Elkins Invitational.
On Wed. the Tartans put 
a seven meet winning struck on 
the line against Cleveland State, 
only to be soundly beaten by 
a very strong team. St. Vincent 
also took part in the three way 
meet and bettered C-MU even 
though the Tartans had beaten 
them on the Saturday before. 
Cleveland captured the first 
three places with two men unfirst nine men, including a fouryear MVP, has a lot of rebuild
ing to do. When two of the 
three remaining lettermen, both 
co-captains, are injured or sick 
during the season and several 
other members are hurting with 
various injuries, many teams 
may not expect to have a win
ning record. The C-MU Cross 
Country team and its dedicated 
coach, Carol Olson, did not want 
to settle for anything less than 
the best team possible.
One member of this years team 
will graduate, Senior co-captain 
Dale Peschel, and although his 
services will be missed, the Tar
tan Harriers will be stronger 
next year.
.Vf,f,HHAAAAAAAAAAAAAA**** **** i **TECHvd.
H&J
Broadcast Live
ON
 HDCa-DFmio 900 
Saturday, Nov. 11
Dale Peschel runningagainst 
the harriers of Cleveland State.
der 24 minutes. John Butler was 
the first C-MU runner with a 
time of 24:29. He was followed 
by another state man then 
C-MU Benie Flynn (24:45) and 
Don Baer (24:55). St. Vincents 
first man took eighth and 
Cleveland had ninth and tenth 
with another man right behind. 
Joe Lorhan took 12th and the 
other scoring Tartan was de
cided by a three way tie for 14th 
(Peschel, 26:40; Bullers, 26:40; 
Scarborough, 26:40).
Final Scores: C-MU 39 CS 19 
C-MU 39 SV 42
On Saturday the Harriers 
hoped to finish the season with 
a victory over Ashland. They, 
however, had other ideas and 
were ready for any Tartan chal
lenge. Ashland captured the 
first three places. Bernie Flynn 
(24:09), running the fastest 
Tartan time for the year, took 
4th and was followed by two 
more Ashland runners. C-MU 
then, although it meant noth
ing, captured the next eight 
places, with Butler, 25:01; Baer, 
25:28; Scarborough, 25:46; and 
Anderson and Peschel, 26:28.
Final Score: C-MU 38 Ashland
17
Although the Harriers finish
ed the season with their worst 
record in recent years, they 
neverless had a successful year. 
Any team that looses five of its
;1:30 p.m.
***********************
Sfonle ySTRAND
681-6100
BOllIp
TECHNICOLOR  FROM MM* BROS. SEVEN UTS yf
StFnlTy
WarnerSTRAND
c4ny 
Wednesday
SU ..janEF0ND8eJaS0nRpB8RCg DrFn Jond d ip MuDPlv
lfTrrt y hT AFFP jnm tFm!* by JUtHS J IASff   0 'Kt* U, 0H I i I i  .. I *
TECHNICOLOR* FROM WARNER BROS. PfSl

---------------------------------------------------

HTmnTdmFy, ,ovTmbTr 8, 1967 R alp ahDah, R AFPT 11
From The Sideline
SOMEONE'S LAUGHING
Ed Dolbow, Tartan Sports Staf
Last week an article in the Pittsburgh Press quoted Tom 
Hubka as saying that he was looking forward to playing a tough 
team like Westminster. Hubka, in fact, implied that the Tartans 
could defeat the powerful Titans. Now Carnegie fans hate to be 
skeptical and Westminster surely didnt want to be derisive but 
after all lets be reasonable. That talk is sheer nonsense and the 
school and students wont stand for it. C-MU has a reputation as 
a fine institute of higher learning to uphotLd and that kind of 
talk could arouse suspicions as to the truth of our claim. Wasnt 
Westminster the leading defensive team in the nation among small 
colleges allowing less than 100 total yards per game? Hadnt op
ponents scored a paltry total of 33 points in six games to aver
age less than one touchdown per game. Hadnt Westminster de
feated Thiel, the team that crushed the Tartans, 41-13, just one 
week before. Hoily cow fellas there just aint no way to beat 
those guys..............
Walking by the Fine Arts building this week you may have 
caught a moment when the trumpeters and vocalists and pianists 
were all resting. If so you might have heard some contented chuck
ling coming from the third floor. Thats where Tom Hubka, a 
senior architect major spends much of his time when he is not 
throwing footballs to Bell, Bugel, and Chemey. Tom has a pretty 
good reason to laugh because he threw five touchdown passes 
against all-powerful, unbeatable Westminster to lead the Tartans 
to a 41-34 victory in one of the baggest upsets in small college foot
ball this year.
The Tartans didnt silently walk around campus all week and 
plot secretly in practice hoping for an upset but making sure not 
to comment for fear of reprisals after the predicted catastrophe. 
They said right in print on the Press sports page that they could 
win. Not rashly, but the idea was there. That was the most ex
citing thing about the victory. Saturdays win was the biggest 
athletic win for this school in a long time. Winning breeds win
ning but the spirit for winning cant come only from the football 
team or basketball team. It has to come from the fans too and 
thats something that has been missing at Tech for a year and a 
half. You really ought to come see the Tartans play W. & J. this 
Saturday at the Tech bowl. It could be an interesting game and 
if you havent done so already take a walk by the Fine Arts build
ing and if youre fortunate enough to catch a moment when the 
trumpeters and vocalist and pianists are resting you might hear 
some chuckling coming from the third floor. Thats Tom Hubka
***************************I Oven, t&e five* rfUeffatttj
+ ? 9 ?
-^UcCe by JPff nHbPn
I. M. DpVIpH
(Continued from Page 10)
in tile end zone. BTP gained 
possession of the ball near mid
field with about two minutes 
remaining and they tried to ex
tend their slim lead,* but four in
complete passes handed the 
ball back to ATO. Malley was 
on the starting and receiving 
end of well executed double 
pass play which moved the ball 
to the Beta 25. With 30 seconds 
left, ATO marched to the one 
yard line and Weiss made a 
clutch reception cutting across 
the end zone to put his team 
in the lead by one point.
Needing one first down to tie 
the game, Zabetakis hit Barbin 
to pick up eight yards but only 
two seconds were left on the 
clock. The game seemed to end 
when the snap from center flew 
over Zabetakis head, but the 
officials ruled that BTP had 
time for one last play. Davis 
caught a short pass and scam
pered down the sidelines to pick 
up the first down and knot the 
score at 26-26.
BTPs momentum carried over 
into the four minute overtime 
period. Zabetakis engineered a 
drive from the Beta 20 yard line 
to the ATO 5, which he cul
minated by connecting with Sakoski for the TD. Trying to 
come back with two minutes 
left, ATO was faced with a 
fourth down and one yard to 
go situation, but a pass was 
batted down by a BTP defender 
to give his team possession. 
Zabetakis skillfully used up 
most of the remaining time by 
scooting around behind the line 
of scrimmage for three plays. 
On the final play of the game, 
he waited until time had ex
pired, then picked up a few key 
blocks on a 50 yard touchdown 
run to top off BTPs champion
ship. The final score was BTP40, ATO-27.
In the consolation game for 
third place, GSIA topped SAE 
by a score of 29-25.
i**************CO-REC Volleyball
S:
H:
D:
C:
S: J, 8 
H: J, 9, 4, 3 
D: A, 5, 2 
C: 10, 9, 8, 7
West
9, 5, 4, 3 
K, 7, 6 
K, 10, 8, 4 
J, 4 
North
East
South
S:
H:
D:
C:
Q. 6, 2 
10, 5, 2 
J, 7, .3 
A, 6, 5, 2
In the final week of league 
play the results wer:
Set League
SAE A won the league by 
defeating TX by forfeit, EJs 
A 15-7, 15-5 and then beating 
SN A 15-1, 15-10. In other 
activities, BTP B defeated TX 
15-1, 15-5.
Final StandingsSet League
S:A, K, 10, 7WL
H:A, Q, 8SAE A50
D:Q, 9, 6EJs A"41
C:K, Q, 3SN A32
SWNEBTP B23
2NT*P3C**PSAE *E 14
3CP4SPTX05
Neither vulnerable. South Dealer.
*19-21 points.
**Stayman convention, asking for a major suit.
Opening Lead: Club 10.
After East takes the ace of clubs and returns a club, South 
views his prospects. He must lose a trump trick as well as the 
club, and, therefore, he can only afford to lose one diamond trick. 
To accomplish this he employs a method known as stripping the 
hand. He wins the second club, draws two rounds of trumps and 
leaves the high trump outstanding as he cashed the three top 
hearts and a high club. South now leads a trump and it doesnt 
matter which opponent wins it. A diamond return would guaran
tee the loss of no more than one diamond trick for South, and 
the lead of a heart or club would allow South to pitch a diamond 
from his hand as he ruffed in the dummy. If South had not strip
ped the hand, the winner of the third trump lead could get out 
with a heart or club and South would have to lead diamonds him
self. Though it was South who stripped, it was East and West 
who soon took off.
Serve League
Second rated SAE B Took 
the league title by defeating 
SN B by forfeit and then 
upsetting first ranked BTP A 
15-13 13-15, 15-7. BTP A de
feated PKT Gold 15-12, 15-0. Al
gorithms B won over ATO 
B 15-7, 15-17, 15-11.
Final Standings-Serve League
SAE B
W
5
L
0
BTP A41
Algorithms B22
SN B23
ATO B13
PKT Gold14
Spike League
EJs B came out on top by 
beating BSR 15-7, 15-10 and 
then winning over TDP A 15- 
13, 15-13. TDP A defeated SN 
C 15-6, 15-4. SN C then lost 
to ATO A 15-7, 13-15, 9-15. 
TDP came back to defeat SAE 
D 15-13, 15-12.
Final Standings-Spike League
WL
EJS B50
TDP A41
ATO A32
SAE D31
SN C31
BSR05
Pass League
Algorithms A had no 
trouble winning the league as 
they defeated SAE C 15-10, 
15-2, SN Pacers by forfeit and 
then beat TDP B 15-13, 15-5. 
PKT Purple defeated TDP B
SKI CLUB
On Monday, November 20, 
1967, at 6:30 pm in the Wherrett 
Room, C-MU Ski Club will pres
ent a ninformative program for 
the beginning skier, as well as 
those who have skied only a 
few times.
The program will feature a 
representative from a local 
sporting goods company who 
will talk about clothing, equip
ment and rentals, and a repre
sentative from a local ski area 
to demonstrate skiing tech
niques and talk about lessons 
and safety. The program will 
also feature two excellent films 
for the beginning skier.
A ^aSSSt^ t
Tartan Photo by Morgan McCune
10-15, 15-5, 15-4 but then lost to 
DTD 17-15, 15-13. SN Pacers 
won by forfeit over SAE F 
and PKT Purple.
Final Standings-Pass League
TAnTAN RhDssDRn; TpP s,ump
TuFP pD,TuFPd Rn pHgP 1 Rf 
TpP NRvPhbPF 1 DssuP aHs 
APFpHFd MHF,k s AAEA ,uF
FPnTmy Rn dDspmHy HT TpP lHF
nPgDP InTPFnHTDRnHm.
Algorithms A
W
6
L
0
SAE C51
DTD33
SN Pacers33
PKT Purple23
TDP B15
SAE F05
The Eyes Have It
by Greg Carroll
In the first round of the play
offs favored SAE A defeated 
SAE C 154, 15-7. In a really 
close match, BTP A won over 
EJs B 15-8, 13-15, 15-8. SAE 
B defeated TDP A" 15-6, 15- 
13. Algorithms A slaughtered 
EJs A 15-0, 15-5.
WATER BASKETBALL
A new sport this year is 
water basketball. It is played 
much like water polo except 
the object is to score baskets in
stead of goals.
Early results are:
BSR lost twice, by forfeit to 
DTD and 46-0 to SN. SN then 
defeated SAE 8-2 while DTD 
won over TDP 20-2.
me w&D TheAhm
DocTot, I've 
LOUtV F=oK THE PAST
tue**.
AW MAP FfBLS ALU 
Co0 46STD AMD 
STUFpV. UJMATDOVOO 
THIfcjfc X riccan FFo
BL0U> YOU* MIND.
EXPERIMENTAL FILM GROUP
PRESENTS
CHARLIE CHAPLIN
.. IN ..
CIaY LIGlaS
Wednesday, November 15
AT 4:30 - 7 - 9 - 11 P.M.
SKI BO BALLnOOM 7d lENTS

---------------------------------------------------

AFPT 1o - alp ahDah, - HTmnTdmFy, ,ovTmbTr 8, 1967
IN ANP 
AROUND
Dr. Janos A. Schossberger, na
tionally known psychoanalyst 
from Jerusalem and currently 
visiting professor at the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Western Psychiatric 
Institute and Clinic; and Hon
orary Member of the faculty of 
the Psychoanalytic Institute of 
Pittsburgh will talk on Why is 
it so Painful to Know who We 
Are and to Get the Parts To 
Work Together, Tuesday, Nov.
14, 8:15 p.m. at the Y.M. & W.H.- 
A. on Bellefield Avenue, Oak
land. As a part of his series on 
Life, Growth and Being: A Psy
choanalysts View of Men, Wom
en and Things, Dr. Schossberger 
is giving an overall look at the 
problems of life as he sees them. 
The lecture is open to the public.
Nuclear Physicist Stanton T. 
Friedman, nationally known lec
turer on the outer world of 
every man will discuss The Mys
ticism of the Universe  The 
Outer World of You: Everyones 
Problems With Life, Time And 
Space, Thursday, Nov. 16, at 8:- 
15 p.m. at the Y.M. & WJLA. 
Mr. Friedmans series is open 
to the public.
PITTSBURGH FREE UNIVER
SITY
Nov. 8 Academic Complicity 
and Selective Service  James 
Holland, Assoc. Prof of Psychol
ogy, University of Pgh.
Nov. 15Conscription in the 
Cold WarSteering Committee. 
8:00 p.m. United Oakland Minis
try, 5th  Bellefield Aves.
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
Edward Powers of the Alle
gheny County Health Depart
ment will tell teenagers and 
young adults of the problems of 
communicable diseases at a 
Health Seminar in South Oak
land November 8.
The meeting, sponsored by 
South Oakland Citizens Coun
cils Health Committee and Jun
ior Council, will begin at 8 pm. 
in Oakland Community Center, 
Ward Street and Boulevard of 
Allies.
Mrs. Pauline Rogers, commit
tee chairman, said the meeting
The Pittsburgh Flan for Art.
is open to anyone interested in 
knowing of the seriousness of 
communicable diseasespartic
ularly venereal disease.
She pointed out that a recent 
report by the Health Dept, noted 
that syphillis cases for the first 
nine months of this year were 
up 150 percent over the same 
period last year.
The public meeting will main
ly deal with the dangers, pre
ventions and cures of venereal 
disease. A film on the subject 
will also be shown.
POETRY FORUM
The International Poetry For
um will present an evening of 
Jamaica Labrish by Louise Ben
nett and Rex Nettleford, on 
Wednesday, November 15, 1967, 
at 8:30 p.m. in the Carnegie Lec
ture Hall, Oakland.
Tickets are available for the 
reading at Kaufmanns, Hornes, 
Gimbels, and the University of 
Pittsburgh Student Union. For 
more information, call the For
um office at 621-9893.
INTERNATIONAL PANEL
The Influence of the Carnegie 
Internationals on the Commun
ity is the theme of a discussion 
sponsored by the Womens Com
mittee of the Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute. The panel is 
scheduled Tuesday, Nov. 14, 8:30 
p.m. in the Carnegie Lecture 
Hall.
EXHIBITS
Calligraphy by Arnold Bank, 
Fourth floor, Hunt Library 
Nov. 2-17.
Woodcuts by Bruce Carter. 
Porter G. Garnett Gallery, third 
floor, B.H. 9 a.m.9 p.m. Mon. 
and Fri., 9 a.m. 12 noon Sait., 
Nov. 6-17.
Control panels Hallway Gal
lery, third floor, B.H. 9 a.m.- 
12 noon Sat., Nov. 6-20.
Pittsburgh Plan for Art
1251 N. Negley Ave.
Art of Our Time, an exhibition 
of works by artists under 35. 
Artists in this show include 
CMU professors, Jo Ann Maier, 
Harry Holland, and Herbert 
Olds. Nov. 2-15.
MUSIC
Chatham College Recital of 
Renaissance and Baroque organ 
music. Russel G. Wichmann, 
Chapel 8:30 pjn. Nov. 8.
The Chatham College Choir 
and Chorus will present a pub
lic concert Saturday, Nov. 11, 
featuring three Minna Kauf
man n  Ruud Scholars as solo
ists. The concert, will be held 
at 8:30 p.m. in the Chatham 
Chapel. There is no admission 
charge.
Marine Band The U. S. Marine 
Band will give a performance in 
the Gateway Senior High School 
Auditorium, Tuesday November
4 at 8:15 p.m. General Admis
sion is $2.50.. The bands visit is 
sponsored by the Kiwanis Club 
of Monroeville.
Gaurguin in Tahiti: The
Search for Paradise, the CBSTV news special, originally 
scheduled to be showrj the night 
of June 6th (but pre-empted 
due to the Middle East Crisis) 
will be shown on Tuesday, Nov
ember 21st (10:00 - 11:00 p.m. 
EST).
Charlie decides to help the Mind girl in City Lights Nov. 15
in Sfcibo.
TGIA
The AFPF is sponsoring a 
TGIA* on the occasion of Dows 
campus visit, Thursday, 12-2 
p.m. in Skibo, with the Reyn
olds Blues Band.
* Thank god its America, (and 
Not Vietnam)
FILMS
The New Pittsburgh Film 
Group will present A1 and Dave 
Mayseles Whats Happening. 
The Beatles in N. Y., the only 
true Beatles Documentary; Ben 
Van Meters Up Tight, L. A. is 
Burning .. . Shit, first prize win
ner at the 1966 Ann Arbor Film 
Festival, and Meters Some 
Dont. Showings will be on Sat
urday, Nov. 11, at eight and 10 
pm at Forbes Avenue. Admission 
is $1.10.
EXPERIMENTAL FILMS
City Lights, considered by 
most critics as Charlie Chaplins 
greatest feature film, will be 
presented Wednesday, Nov. 15 
by the Experimental Film 
Group, at 4:30, 7:00, 9:00 and 
11:00.
SATURDAY NIGHT MOVIES
Nov. 11, Lust for Life, Lord 
Jim, and Captain Video episode 
seven will be shown, eight pm, 
Skibo Ballroom.
DRAMA DEPT. PLAY
Tickets for Eugene ONeils 
Touch of the Past will be avail
able Thursday, Nov. 9, at 4:00 
pm at 108 FA. The play, run
ning from Nov. 16-30, will be 
directed by Mordecai Tawner, 
who directed last seasons Street
car Named Desire.
MUSIC
Camegie-Mellon String Quar
tet will Arthur Loesser, guest 
pianist, Wednesday, November
8, 8:30 pm, Skibo Ballroom. 
FINE ARTS CONVOCATION
Composer Gardner Read will 
discuss contemporary orchestra
tion in his lecture entitled The 
Dilemma of Notation, on Thurs
day, November 9, 12:30 pm, in 
Exhibition Hall.
TECH
CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP
The Tech Christian Fellow
ship will present Neil Rendell 
spaking on Priorities of the 
Christian Life: Bible Study and 
Prayer. Friday, November 10, 
7 pm in room 200, Skibo. A
discussion will follow.
YM & WHA
Edward Auer, the most hon
ored young American pianist 
and first to win a prize in the 
Warsaw Chopin Competition, 
will make his Pittsburgh debut 
Wednesday, November 15, 8:04 
pm at the YM & WHA, on Belle
field Ave.
gPaala
Thurs. Chaim Potok, author 
of The Chosen, will speak at 
the YM & WHA library on Belle
field Ave.
Fri. Services will be held at 
7 pm in Room 39, Skibo.
Sunday. Rabbi Ruebnstein 
will speak on The New Left in 
the American Community, at 
the 11:00 brunch.
Between 1 and 5 pm bridge 
will be played in the Highlander 
Room.
Israeli Folk Dancing will take 
plaoe in the Wherrett Room at 
8:00 pm.
Monday. Coffee Hour at 4:30 
pm in Room 40, Skibo. 
LUNCHEON FORUM
The Thursday Luncheon For
um will feature President Stever discussing the Changing 
Role of a University. The cur
rent series is focusing on in
novation in education. The For
um is open to all, and held at 
12:30 pm in the Highlander 
Room.
CRAZY NITE
Crazy Nite will be held Fri
day Night, November 10, mid
night to 2:30 in Skibo. Admis
sion is 50c. The evening includes 
cartoons, Lord Jim, a Ceilidh 
performance, and the A Phi O 
Coffee House.
The Counter - Guerilla Train
ing Unit, an extra-curricular ac
tivity sponsored by the ROTC 
Department, will conduct a prac
tice exercise in patrolling, Nov.
11, at Boyce park. The purpose 
of such exercises is to give ca
dets a chance to practice what 
they have learned in class. Any 
ROTC student can join the 
CGTU. All interested should 
contact C/Maj. J. H. Anderson 
in 101 Henderson or C/2Lt. Hub
bard in B-321 Hammerschlag. 
NAVY TEAM
The Naval Officer Programs 
Team invites all interested colC-MU to Host 
Home-Ec Workshop
The Western Area Pennsyl
vania Home Economics Associ
ation of College Chapters will 
hold its fall workshop on Satur
day, November 11. The Depart
ment of Business and Resource 
Management of C-MU will host 
the workshop this year. The 
theme of the meeting is Interac
tion of Home Economics in an 
Urban Community.
Speakers and topics for the 
event include: Mrs. Cora Ray
ford, Home Economics Consul
tant Urban Renewal, Homewood-Brushton area, A Home 
Economist helps an Urban 
Group to help themselves; Mr. 
Leon Haley, Assistant Executive 
Director Urban League of Pitts
burgh, Overview of the Urban 
League Role in the Development 
of Potentials of Minority Groups 
and Miss Patricia Tengel, As
sistant Professor, Business and 
Resource Management, C-MU, 
Summer Experience as Project 
Director for a Survey of Food 
Stores in Poverty Areas.
Reservations can be made by 
contacting Christine Carroll, 
682-8716.
TpP AFTD,mP Rn TpP MDhP 
TFRup, apD,p HppPHFPd Dn 
TpP NRvPhbPF 1 DssuP Rf TpP 
TAnTAN aHs aFDTTPn by JPff 
BPgun.
PI DELTA 
EPSILON
will meet 4:30 p.m. 
November 14, 1967 
in SKIBO
BhLLpa...
(Cotntinued from Page 1) 
dance-character, ethnic, Jazz, 
classical ballet, and others. In 
addition to these numbers, there 
will be spoofs on classical bal
let, yoga, karate, and demon
strations of the ballet studio and 
jazz.
A great variety of music is 
being used in the production. 
Chopin and Tchaikowsky will 
be included in the classical num
bers, while current artists such 
as Dave Brubeck and Ravi 
Shankar will provide the back
ground music for the jazz 
dances.
As indicated by the title, Noir 
et Blanc, the entire production 
is done in black and white. All 
costumes are black and white. 
The scenery is composed entire
ly of black and white slides, 
made by Mr. Petrov, which are 
projected onto a front and a 
back screen. There are no tra
ditional backdrops.
At the present time, there is 
no ballet company in Pittsburgh. 
Mr. Petrov hopes that the Noir 
et Blanc is a step towards de
veloping a Pittsburgh Civic Bal
let. He feels that in additions to 
a Symphony Orchestra and an 
Opera Company, there is a need 
and a place for a Ballet Com
pany, and that Pittsburgh has 
the talented people to form such 
a company.
lege men to discuss opportunities 
in Naval Officer Programs with 
the team, which will be visiting 
on Nov. 10.
Pan-Hel announces the begin
ning of formal rush, with open 
houses Sunday, November 19.
