A*<^vcx
THAT HOME CONCERT 
AND DANCE 
MARCH 12, 1920ffitf Sari an
FT" BASKET BALL 
. COLGATE vs. TECH 
THURSDAY NIGHT
VOL. XIV. No. 21.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.MARCH 3, 1920.
Arts Students Hard at Work
on Final Preparations For Ball
Plebes Complete Decorations.
Maggio to Furnish Music,
Every one in the Division of the 
Arts is now hard at work on the deco
rations for the annual ball which will 
take place this Friday night in the 
corridors of the building of the Arts. 
The familiar classic halls are begin
ning to take on every fantastic ap
pearance as the decorations go up and 
by Friday night the transformation 
will be complete. The studies look 
like work shops that are running 24 
hours a day for there is no rest now 
till every thing is ready for the wond
erful evening. Sewing machines are 
running continuously sewing yards 
and yards of cloth for drapery, and a 
force of Plebes is working in the scul
pture hall making giant peacocks out 
of paper, while many others are put
ting up the finished work.
By six oclock Friday all will be in 
readiness and the building will be 
cleared and from then on no one shall 
enter the building but those in cos
tume presenting a signed pass. The 
ball will start about nine-thirty or 
quarter-to-ten and will run till the sun 
is almost ready to crowl out to an
nounce it is Saturday morning.
TRACK TEAM TO MEET WESTINGHOUSE CLUB
Meet to be Held March 6th.
The track squad will have* its first 
real competitive meet of the season 
when it meets the Westinghouse Club 
on Saturday evening, March 6. All 
the men are training hard'under the 
guidance of Coach Hazel and he feels 
that the team will make a very good 
showing against the strong Club team. 
Captain Schmidt, however, due to a 
broken ankle will probably not be able 
to participate in this meet but hopes 
to begin training before long.
Ten events to be held, are a 30 yard 
dash, 220 yard dash, 440 yard dash, 
880 yard run, 1 mile run, 2 mile run, 
% mile relay, running high jump, 12 
pound shot put and pole vault. The 
events are to be conducted under the 
A. A. U. rules and the. team winning 
the highest number of points will be 
-awarded a trophy, known as the J. 
Paxton Hart Trophy.
The regular February meeting of 
the Tech Branch of the A. I. E. E. 
held in Machinery Hall the evening of 
the 26th was a banner session in every 
respect. A large number of Night 
Men were present and the Industries 
Avo Club attended in a body bringing 
the total attendance to over 100.
The feature of the evening was an 
excellently delivered and illustrated 
lecture, Electricity the Servant of 
Man, by M. C. Turpin, Dept, of Pub
licity, Westinghouse.' The accompany
ing slides showed electrical applica
tions in the home, in the industries, in 
transportation, etc., and also show the 
great dependence now placed by man 
on electricity.
The large attendance was especial
ly pleasing and it is hoped that it will 
be continued at future meetings.-O
INDUSTRIES PLEBE-SOPH
Thursday evening, February 26th. 
the Industries Freshmen held their 
annual dance in honor of the Sopho
mores in the Carnegie Union. The 
school color, green, was carried out to 
perfection, and many large palms 
were used to help beautify the hall. 
Peppy music was furnished by Hugh
es Orchestra, on a platform in the 
center of the room, which was quite a 
diversion from the usual Tech dances.
The specialty numbers were waltz: 
in honor of the three upper classes, a 
large spotlight shining on the class 
numerals during the dance. Punch 
was served by Boston in the usual 
good style throughout the dance.
The Freshmen were all pep and 
took great pride in safeguarding 
President Smith from the clutches of 
the Sophs. The dance was well plan
ned and well carried out and all cred
it is due the committee composed of 
R. W. Marshall, chairman; M. L. 
Wright, P. S. Allen, C. A. Burnell, C. 
W. Usinger. It was an evening that 
will long be remembered as the best 
dance the Sophs ever attended in the 
Union.
Spring Signs.
She stood amidst the clover bloom 
Her hair was flowing free,
She stooped to pick a fragrant bud 
And swished her tail in glee.
Maggio who made a name for him
self at the Junior Prom will furnish 
the music, so good music is an assur
ed fact.
Th eentertainment committee prom
ise not to disappoint any one on their 
part of the evening and say they have 
some good stunts to pull off during 
the mid-night supper in the exhibition 
hall.
The students of the Division of the 
Arts are urged to pay their dues at 
once if they have not done so already 
and take the receipt to the secretary 
for a pass as positively no one will 
be admitted the night of the ball with
out a pass and no passes will be is
sued after five oclock Friday evening. 
The committee desire to call atten
tion to the ruling passed that? students 
and alumni of the Division of the Arts 
are the only ones eligible to come to 
the ball and no one else will be issued 
passes. Alumni include besides those 
who have graduated any one who at 
some time was a registered student in 
the Division of the Arts for a period 
of not less than one year.
001 MEN SERENADE AFTER MIDNIGHT
Dormitory I happens to possess a 
piano, so why not make use of it, is 
their motto. On the night before Sun
day, a few decided and the rest fol
lowed. All the musicians were im
mediately awakened and forced to re
port for duty in bathrobes only.
A positive element has a greater af
finity for a negative element so the 
procession started for the girls dorms. 
The lassies were supposed to be in 
dreamland  but not at that time. 
Then, buckets, tin cans, hammers, 
stringed instruments, air compressors, 
and other mechanisms were used to 
send off supposed to be harmonious 
wares of motion. Open windows are 
good absorbers of sound, and the las
sies therefore opened up every win
dow and the jazz began. The ions 
(wanderers) then demanded songs, 
and the window spectators sang: Ill 
be your best lover if you catch me.
Every dormitory was visited, for 
the male ions were ambitious, you 
know and what was a walk to them 
in carrying a heavy piano on a slip
pery pavement. Then the blissful, felicitious, uproarious and obstreperous 
crowd journeyed to Mellons Hall.
On the way, one fellow who carried 
the sound generator slipped and down 
went the others kissing the white sol
id cover of H20. Everybody else en
joyed it, however, the destination was 
reached. They were welcomed, of 
course, but some laymen seemed to 
object to that jazz, for probably it 
was out of date at that time in the 
night and they therefore sent in six 
calls to the law enforcers.
Meanwhile the annex was also visit
ed and by the time the buttoned men 
arrived a good time had been had. 
However, when those law enforcers 
heard that mild, gentle, meek, soft, 
oral recitals that those graceful, ele
gant lassies gave, then it was a differ
ent situation altogether. They rather 
joined the crowd and followed them. 
The pyramid seekers then sang, Good 
Night, Ladies, and to the rear they 
marched, singing, dancing and cleaning 
the slippery pavements with their 
backs. It was about 2 a. m. when that 
piano was reinstalled in its former po
sition.
Since they received such good re
ceptions everywhere those musicalshimmy ions claim that they will con
tinue their processions.-SBIBLE STUDY COURSE
A class for Bible study has been re
cently organized at Margaret Morri
son. It consists of members from all 
classes with a faculty advisor. The 
class will have a meeting Wednesday, 
February 11 at the Sixth Presbyterian 
Church. The pastor, Dr. Farber, will 
speak on the Manhood of the Mast
er. The course is to extend over a 
period of eight weeks.-------O-------M. M. D. BASKETBALL
Basketball practice is absorbing ev 
eryones attention at M. M. just now. 
Each class has a team and practices 
every week. Election of captains has 
not yet taken place but will be held 
shortly. The games are scheduled 
as follows: Freshmen versus Sopho
mores, March 9; Juniors versus Sen
iors, March 11; Championship, March 
17.
MARCH 12th
HOME CONCERT
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
FORMAL DANCE SYRIA MOSQUE
1 Prices 50c, 75c, $1.00, $1.50Dance $1.00
RiniiiiiifMnHiiiuunaiiiinigiiuHinniiiininiiiii^iiuiiiiiiinuiiwiuimiiimuiHiiiiiiumiiinMraDi
NOVEL STUNTS PUT ON AT SCIENCE STAG
Tau Beta Pi Eledtion 
Announced.
The Science Stag last Saturday 
night was one of the best ever held. 
There was not a dull moment during 
the whole evening. At first every
body talked to everybody else and 
got acquainted. Then, before this be
gan to lag, the stunts were pulled off. 
The first stunt was that of the Plebes 
which was supposed to represent some 
of their trials. Act I was the first 
day at school when the naughty soph
omores got rough. The second act 
was an inspection. Following this was 
a boxing match in barrels by the 
Stark Brothers. The gloves were 
covered with stove polish so one could 
easily tell where one of the scrappers 
was hit.
The next act was that of the Soph
omores, which was a mock trial of A. 
Awful Furnaceslag, D. D. This was 
acclaimed by all to be the best of the 
evening. Some of the witnesses were 
especially interesting, especially Ma
ria Murphy, acted by John Byler, and 
Flossie, the Shimmie Shaker, by 
Red Osier. The judge, clerk, lawyers 
and other witnesses were fine. The 
jury could not.refrain from reading 
the Police ^Gazette, and shooting; 
craps during the trial. The final 
knockout blow came when A. A., 
called up the witness stand claimed 
that he had nothing to say.
The Junior stunt had for the set
ting the parting of the ways to para
dise and to hades. St. Peter gave the 
keys to a C. I. T. student who, after 
questioning a number of the faculty, 
sent them trotting down the lower 
path. The seniors staged a faculty 
meeting at which a petition was 
brought up.- It was discussed in a 
very humorous way. The less said of 
the Senior stunt, the better.
The only serious business of the 
evening was the announcement of the 
Tau Beta Pi elections^ Director Mott 
gave a talk on the purpose of the 
fraternity, namely, scholarship, activ
ities, and personality. The elections, 
made from the upper eighth of the 
Junior Class, were as follows: Carl
E. Peterson, Mech. Eng.; M. H. Mawhinney, Mech. Eng.; J. R. W. Macalbine, Science; W J. Blenho, Mech. 
Eng.; L. E. Hawkins, Comm. Eng.;
F. A. Nicholson, Chem. Eng.; C. A. 
McDade, Elect. Eng; A. C. May, 
Mech. Eng.; J. Monstream, Mech. 
Eng.; R. W. Schlernhef, Met. Eng.
After the prizes were awarded to 
the classes for the stunts. The Soph
omores took first prize, Plebes sec
ond and Juniors third.
After this every one went to the 
beanery where a lunch, consisting of 
pickles sandwiches, apples and coffee 
was served.
MARGARET MORRISON PROM 
IMPORTANT SOCIAL EVENT
The most important social event of 
the Margaret Morrison school year 
will start promptly at nine oclock, 
Friday evening, March 5th, in the 
Schenley ball-rooms. The receiving 
line will consist of President and Mrs. 
A. A. Hammerschlag, Dean Mary B. 
Breed, Col. and Mrs. Samuel Harden 
Church, Mr. and Mrs. Taylor Allderdycer, Miss Julia P. Harrison, Miss 
Eleanor McCarson, Miss Agnes Piper 
and Miss Louise Irvin. Other faculty 
members who will be guests at the 
prom are Miss Pope, Miss Holmes, 
Miss Merrill, Mr. and Mrs. Conrad, 
Miss Hills, Miss Coleman, Miss sell
ers.
The prom will open with the Grand 
March, led by the Junior class presir 
dent, Miss Eleanor McCarson with 
John D. Beatty. The program will 
consist of twenty dances divided by 
the intermissions for supper. Unique 
programs and favors have been secur
ed and excellent music is assured. 
Everything points to the success of 
the prom and all the Juniors and Sen
iors are looking forward to a wonder
ful time. At a point meeting of the 
two classes programs were made out 
to insure mixing of the classes. By a 
vote of the Junior class several weeks 
ago flowers will be permitted to be 
worn at the prom.
WORK CONTINUES ON 
NEW ATHLETIC PROGRAM
Steffen Telegraphs.
Although it appears that actions 
have ceased after the assembly last 
week, such is not the case. The Ath
letic Council is now hard at work re
ceiving the subscriptions and working 
out a plan with which to confront the 
Alumni.
The following telegram was receiv
ed from the Football Coach:
Chicago, 111., 
February 25, 1920.
G. L. Tilbrook:
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. Sorry I was prevent
ed from being in Pittsburgh today. My 
best wishes for the new plan and the 
future of Tech Athletics.
WALTER P. STEFFENS.
All future developments will be rec
orded in the Tartan, Watch it.
SENIOR ENTERTAINMENT HELD FEBRUARY 26
On Friday, February 26 a fourscliool senior entertainment was held 
in the recreation hall of the Margaret 
Morrison School. The affair was giv
en by the M. M. Seniors.
This is an outgrowth of the Senior 
Parte held at the Union several 
weeks ago.
The four-school-senior-get-together 
idea is bearing fruit. The 20 class of 
Tech is becoming increasingly uni
fied, and out of the four separate and 
unsympatheticor at best indifferent 
senior classes, a harmonious whole is 
gradually evolving. The members are 
getting to know each other with a 
familiarity thatdesires further ac
quaintance.
It is affairs such as these that lend 
a humanizing aspect to a school and 
tend to alter the Tech symbol of 
the brick wall and the grindstone rep
resenting the school and the daily 
grindstone occasionally replaced by a 
jazz band.
And for this the credit this time 
goes to the M. M. Seniors, headed by 
Miss Agnes Piper, who is class presi
dent.
The jazz was supplied by Maggios three-piece orchestra, and not a 
note of it was wasted; for not to 
dance while it played waswellnot 
to dance at all.
A Lemon Dance was one of the 
novelties.
Before refreshments were served a 
clever feature was introduced. Each 
one was presented with a blank slip 
of paper, producing an equally blank 
expression on the face of the recip
ients till it was explained that if the 
slips were heated a number would ap
pear. All filed into the laboratory (it 
looks more like a kitchen, with stoves 
and everything) and holding the pa
per to the flame, brought out the in
visible number. Saw the invisible, as 
it were.
Like numbers matched up and re
freshments consisting of highly edible 
sandwiches and coffee were served.
The committee in charge is to be 
commended on its splendid work on 
the affair. It consists of Miss R. McClosky, chairman, Miss G. Butcher, 
Miss E. Kelly, Miss B. Buchele and 
Miss H. Young.
All enjoyed themselves thruout and 
the affair broke up at six oclock.
VARSITY DROPS THREE 
ON EASTERN TRIP
Last week end our Varsity cagemen 
journeyed eastward encountering 
Juniata, Rutgers and Lehigh. Wo are 
given to understand that three hard 
and brilliant games were lost.
The Tartan was unable, due to for
mer obligations, to send any represen
tative. The manager did not bring 
any score-book back; so it is impos
sible to furnish any further details of 
these three games.
Alumni Favor Date Set
For Home Coming Week
Plans Fait Rounding Into Shape.
Up For Approval of Administration.
Plans for Campus Day are now well 
under way and there is every appear
ance of this being one of the biggest 
things ever attempted at Tech. The 
Alumni have already received word of 
the plans from the secretary of th,e 
Alumni Federation, Mr. Tilbrook. 
Many of the clans and various in
dividuals have expressed great enthu
siasm over the arrangements and 
have promised their hearty support 
and co-operation.
At first there was some discussion 
over the date by the Alumni of the 
Division of Science and Engineering 
as they were planning a reunion of 
their own around Commencement 
week. However, at a meeting of the 
Alumni Council of the Division of 
Science, it was agreed to hold the re
union at the time suggested by the 
Student Council as that date seemed 
the most logical one. There are a 
number of events scheduled at that 
time that can be taken advantage 
of in forming the programme such as 
Qualification Day and Tap Day on the 
13th. of May. The Bucknell base
ball game May 14th, and the InterScholastic track meet and the Genvea 
track meet the following day. The 
Inter-Scholastic track meet at this 
time will give Tech a wonderful 
chance to entertain the prep school
FOUR SCHOOLS UNITE 
FOR ANNUAL SOPH HOP
The unanimous opinion of the 
Sophomores and other followers of 
Torpspichorcan pleasure was to the 
effect that the annual Soph Hop was 
emphatically an unprocedentod suc
cess. The affair was held in the Duquesne Gardens which was appropri
ately decorated for the occasion.
The music, by Maggio, was prac
tically the same as the Proms ja///- 
juice, hence comments and exclama
tions arc out of order. For those who 
werent at tho Prom, well just remark 
that it was pretty Jake. As one of 
fair females was overheard to remark, 
Arent the encores nice an often. 
The Lucky Number dance went 
over strong. Several couples wore so 
busy out-hopping tho Hop that they 
didn't hoar their numbers so it looked 
for awhilo as tho the bunch of orchids 
would have to be divood up. But by 
the process of elimination (each pro
cess being accompanied by a little, 
Oh!) the lucky couple was selected. 
We didn't catch the ladys name, but 
the gentleman sported tho name of 
Baker and hails from Pitt.
All too early, the above-mentioned 
nice an often girl oxclaimed, oh, 
its not one oclock already.
The Patrons and Patronesses were: 
Dean and Mrs. J. T. Morris, Mr. and 
Mrs. H. T. R. Aude, Mr. and Mrs. J. 
C. Morehead, Mr. and Mrs. H. S. 
Hower, Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Leeds, Mrs. 
Sherman Conrad, Miss Callie Hunter, 
Miss Lillie Swenson and Mr. W. 
Frank Hichens.
The Committee: Wm. M. Burke,
chairman; Eleanor Foster, Gladys 
Ramsey, A. W. Chesterman, P. G. Unzicker, J. E. Hess, J. G. Keelan, R. L. 
Shanno.
OR, ALBERT W. BEVAN
TO SPEAK AT VESPERS
At the Student Vesper Service last 
week Dr. Van Etten took as his sub
ject, Spiritual Goat-Feathers. This 
was one of the best and most practical 
talks given at these meetings. He 
spoke of the many side lines which 
draw one away from ones main pur
pose in college, in business and in re
ligion. It was a talk against becom
ing a jack of all trades and master 
of none. He gave quotations from 
Ellis Parker Butler's book, GoatFeathers. An added attraction was 
Mr. J. Fred Lissfelt who gave two 
very fine solos on the piano. Master 
Roger Ingham sang two selections 
from Handels Messiah.
This week the speaker will be Al
bert W. Bevun, D. D., pastor of the 
Lake Avenue Baptist Church of Ro
chester. He is the successor of Clar
ence Barbour, who went into Y. M. 
C. A. work. He has one of the most 
modern Sunday Schools in the coun
try, that part of his church costing 
a quarter of a million. He was chos
en to go to France for Reconstruction 
work and has had charge of the Y. 
M. C. A. work in a large part of Eu
rope. He is now one of the men se
lected as competent to speak to col
lege men and is the leader of one of 
the teams of five going around the 
country to speak in all colleges. His 
subject will be A Life with a Pur
pose.
visitors and interest them in the col
lege, which with our new athletic pro
gram is a rather important feature. 
These events would be lost to the pro
gram were the date to be moved to 
Commencement week. In addition to 
t his Commencement week would bring 
the celebration during the Senior ex
ams and the week before the final 
exams of the rest of the students. It 
was therefore felt best to make Camp
us Week in the middle of May to al
low the students some time to recov
er from the work of preparation before the exams.
The Alumni Federation has also ex
pressed itself in favor of the middle 
of May and are most enthusiastic in 
their support of the movement for an 
annual reunion of this kind. Not only 
have the Alumni of all the schools 
heartily endorsed tho plans suggested 
by the Student Council but at a re
cent meeting with representatives of 
the administration the Dean of Men 
and the Registrar expressed their ap
proval of the plans and tho date as 
they were then revised and presented 
to the administration.
The whole matter is now before 
President Hammerschlag for his ap
proval and it would seem certain with 
the favor tho plans have thus far met 
ho will pass on them so that tho work 
of preparation may begin at onco.
TENNIS PRACTICE
WILL START SOON
Tech Strong in Tennis, Old 
Men Back, Including 
Davis and Beatty, For
mer Stars.
Carnegie Techs tennis team, cham
pions of tho Tri-State section for the 
last three years, under the careful 
tutelage of Clol. Brooks will start pre
liminary practice in the gym in a few 
weeks time and as soon as tho weath
er permits .practice in earnest on the 
courts will begin.
Tennis is the one branch of ath
letics that Tech can boast of, because 
thoy are yet to bo beaten. In every 
tournament in which thoy have par
ticipated they have carried off all hon
ors, altho they have not had the 
chance to compete with the big col
leges of the East. Manager Hlrsch 
Is doing his best to book a game with 
a few of thoso big colleges and if he 
is successful, the team expects to ac
quire now laurels, because according 
to all dope available this years team 
will far supersede any other.
Davis and Beatty, mates, stars for 
the last two years are back and along 
with Captain Steve Stockslagor, Cop
ley, Harknoss and Gawthrop will fbrm 
the nucleus about which Col. Brooks 
will build a galaxy of tennis stars that 
will cause a stir in the collegiate ath
letic world. Then, too, Henry Simp
son and Moeser, both new men at 
Tech, who have acquired recognition 
in the South, having featured in sev
eral championship tournaments, will 
probably represent the Plaid this com
ing season.
Work on six new tennis courts, in 
the hollow beside the Margaret Mor
rison school will soon begin and when 
completed will make a total of eight 
courts, so there will be no lacking of 
room for contestants. The new courts 
are to be the best that can be laid out. 
Brooks will call for student volunteer 
help for this work, which he intends 
to personally supervise.
Mr. Hirsch, manager of the team, is 
busy booking matches, altho nothing 
as yet except one with Penn State on 
May 15th. Arrangements, however, 
are being made for games with West 
Virginia, Washington and Jefferson, 
Allegheny, Grove City, Geneva, Syra
cuse, Princeton and Yale.
TRACKRCEMKROWMSRI NG
Thirteen doesnt mean anything to 
the Junior Chemicals for on Saturday, 
March 13, the Union is going to be the 
scene of one of the years big events. 
With an orchestra that has gufiaranteed to turn the Union upside down, 
they are going to give Tech a real 
chance to Jazz. Mysterious night 
will have nothing on thisits to be 
some dance. The Quaker Commer
cials and C. T. McClean are particu
larly invited. The committee, T. M. 
Felton, chairman, K. N. Zitzmann, and 
M. Aron have some neat features and 
stunts under cover.
The proceeds of the dance are to be 
given entirely to the Athletic Associa
tion. The committee expects hearty 
support from all classes and all sec
tions. A pouch of a dancethat's all 
and only one dollar. Further par
ticulars will appear in next week's 
Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

OUTLINE OF 
HYTEMP CONVEYOR BELT
STANDARD PORTLAND CE ME NT CO.
LE EDS, ALA.
LOADINGHOPPER
TOTAL LENGTH 72-2"
HEAD PULLEY 20"* 18"TAIL PULLEY le-xlQ' 
6TROUGH I NG IDLERS UNEQUALLY SPACED 
TOP-COVER /a" PULLEY SIDE '/|6" 
CRESCENT FASTENERS USED 
F.P.M. I9G.3 T.P.H.60 |-MP 200-6C0 
MATERIAL DELIVERED 30FR0M FAIL POWER. DELIVERED AT HEAD PULLER 
LUMPS VARY IN SIZE FROlS +0 5" 
ANGLE OF INCLI NATI ON 12.'
Specified GOODYEAR HYTEMP 
CONVEYOR BELT 16" 5 PLY
mmm
PAGE TWO.
oil)? ariatt
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-cla mutter.
ThiM yea.r ?1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
5c the copy Cunudu, $1.76
Bolineas Manager
Phone Hazel 9422 
Phone Hazel 9425.
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Puquin
Ansiotant Managing Editors 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake 
New Editor 
J. T. Amen 
Associate New Editor 
W. D. Hall
Athletic Editor
G. R. Goodrich
Aoaistant Athletic Editor 
Fred L. Knowles 
S. P. Smith 
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchley
School Editors
M. M. C. S............Margaret J. Griffen
Science...................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industrie..........................J. R. Rudisill
Arts..................................T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lubin 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer 
Ralph Shanno
BUSINESS STAFF 
D. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Wm. Obenour
Advertising Manager 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE.
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays. 
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
.Room 162, Design
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at one*.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the ignature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
HOME COMING WEEK
After the committee from the Student Council has worked hard to for 
mulate a program for Home Coming Week, there seems to be the usual con 
troversy between the students and administration whether the date set is the 
most logical or not. This deserves comment, not to promote the controversy 
but since it is the popular opinion that the committee has chosen the best 
dates possible.
To hold this affair in Commencement Week as the other side of the 
contenders desire is absolutely out of the question. For one and a good 
reason, such action would bring the event in the week before the preparation 
foi scheduled undergraduate examinations. Due to the recognized existing 
conditions we could hardly expect any support from the student body. This 
is the greatest essential to the success of Home Coming Week.
The Alumni Federation after discussing the question, have informed the 
student council-that they will support and coopcrnte with the plan on the 
dates suggested. An alumnus here is not interested in commencement. If 
Home Coming Week and Commencement Week fall together the latter will 
be a failure now from two standpoints.
Why is it so desirable to hold the affair as scheduled? There are at 
present two baseball games, the annual inter-scholastic track meet and a 
track meet with Goneva scheduled. There will bo an additional influx of 
peoplestrangers. Why can they not see Tech at its best. In addition 
these ovonts help very well in sending out the program so that the alumni 
can also see us at our host, Why, then, a controversy?
The trouble appeal's to bo over the fact that tho underclasses will miss 
part of two days school. Obviously, some will bo missed anyhow by the 
Qualification and Tap Day ceremonies which, logically, also come about the 
time scheduled for tho big event. If the controversy is over this fact or not, 
wo* wonder if tho administration and tho student body will over "jlke 
scheduling like ovonts. However, the undergraduates look for Homo Coming 
Week as scheduled by tho student council.----------------------
UNCALLED-FOR
The assembly lust week wns a demonstration of tho sort that we huve 
been looking for. The students deserve to be complimented for their in
tention of supporting the future of Tech athletics.
In sovornl instances, however, the true spirit bus been stoppd on.
Tho Industries IMobos should be informed that it is no pi,'(cedent to try 
to bronk up u dance, by the abduction of tho Sophomore chus president 
Whut wus accomplished? The class danced anyhow.
M. M. 1). SUGGESTS CLASS PARTIES
There' huve been rumors lloutlhg uround about the wonderful purtios our 
high und mighty Senior class huve been having lutely. Why : houldnt the 
other clusses huve'some get-together purtios just us well us the Seniors? It 
seems more reasonable und logicul (hut the underclussmen should get ucquuinted thun thut the Seniors, who uro so soon to louve, should become 
ucquuinted. It would be much more profitable: for the underclussmen of the 
four schools to huve some common sociul life und in this way to further thut 
spirit of Tech for Tech men und women.
Margaret Morrison underclussmen would be glud to do unything to sturt 
such affuirs and to make them as much a success as the Senior parties have 
been. If each class would have even only one party, it would be a good 
start towards u unity of the four schools.Contributed.----------$----------
CALENDAR OF STUDENT EVENTS
March 3-Cosmopolitan Club Meeting.....................................Science Club Room
March 4Dorm Nos. 1 and 2 Dance...................................................................Union
March 5Tech Mechanics Club Dance.............................................................Union
March 5Arts Students Ball...............................................................Arts Building
March 5M. M. D. Junior Prom................................................Sclienley Ball Room
March 6Donnn Nos. 4 and 6 Dance............................................................Union
March 11Freshmen Science Dance.................................................................Union
March 12Musical ClubsHome Concert.
March 13Junior Chemical Dance.................................................................Union
March 19Building Construction Dance........................................................Union
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
Official Announcement 
Spring Quarter Registration 
Exhibition RoomArts Building
All day students, in all Division, are required to report for registration 
and payment of quarterly fee ($25.00) on one of the following days:
March 24th..............................9:30 A. M. to 11:30 A. M.
March 26thMarch 26th..............................1:30 P. M. to -1:00 P. M.
Each student must present for identification the small card issued at the 
time of registration for the Winter Quarter. If this curd has been lost or 
mislaid a duplicate may be obtained from the Office of the Cashier.
The usual fee of $1.00 per day to u maximum of $5.00 will be charged for 
lute registration (exclusive of hoi days).
At the student muss meeting of nil Divisions on February 25 the student, 
body voted that; nil men und women students in the dny school, contribute 
$5.00 to the capital fund of the Athletic Association, to be pnid at the time 
<>r the Spring Quarter Registration.
The Cashier will be prepured to collect athletic funds on above date.
REGISTRATION OF FEDERAL HOARD MEN.
All students assigned to the Institute by the Federal Board for Voca
tional Education are required to register for the Spring Quarter in accord
ance with the above information und a record of the registration will bo sent 
to the District Office of the Board.
No payment of fee is required of Federal Board Men, but a statement 
of authorization to register must be secured in advance of registration from 
the Office of the Dean of Men.
CALENDAR
March 27thSaturdayEnd of Winter Quarter.
April 6th-TuesdayClasses beginSpring Quarter.
May 31stMondayNational HolidayNo Classes.
June 7tliMondayCommencement Day.
June 19thSaturdayEnd of Spring Quarter.
ALAN BRIGHT, Registrar.
THK T ART AMWEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 1920.
OFFICIAL NOTICE 
Scholarship and Fellowship
Dean Tarbell, in announcing at the 
Student Assembly on February 25 the 
Scholarships and Fellowships awarded 
during the current year, stated that 
they fall into three classifications, ac
cording to the source from which the 
money comes for these grants. In the 
first group the funds are provided by 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
in the second group by various alumni 
or alumnae organizations, and in the 
third group by outside donors inter
ested in or affiliated with the Insti
tution.
Scholarships
First GroupGrants given by the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology:
1. Four $600 scholarships for dis
charged French soldiers. Awarded for 
1919-20 to Robert Bonneval, Rene 
Moulin, Robert Du Bois, and Roger 
Prochasson.
2. Three scholarships consisting of 
remission of General Fee and expense 
for books and supplies. Awarded to 
three French women, Miles. Ginette 
LeClerc, Madeleine Poidevan, and 
Renee Eustache.
One $75 scholarship, consisting 
of remission of General fees. Awarded 
to Miss Eva Smith in connection with 
a fellowship of $500 from the Irene 
Kaufman Settlement of Pittsburgh.
4. One $75 scholarship consisting 
of remission of fee. Awarded to Miss 
Henen Free in connection with a fel
lowship of $500 in Social Work from 
a Pittsburgh donor.
Second GroupGrants by Alumni 
and alumnae:
1. $100. George H. Smith Scholar
ship of the Alumni Association of the 
Division of Science and Engineering 
to Frederick B. Bloom.
2. $75. The Birdie Werthemer 
Rauh Scholarship to Samuel H. Rodzinsky.
3. $50. By the Margaret Morri
son Alumnae Association to Barbara 
Endres.4. $50. By Alumni, School of 
Drama to Miss Alma Lotz.
5. $50. By Alumni, School of Dra
ma to Howard Claney.
6. $75 Class of 1916, M. M. D. 
Belleville Memorial Scholarship. Award not yet made.
Third GroupGrants from outside 
donors:1. $500. For 4 years. War Mem
orial Scholarship by Westinghouse 
Electric and Manufacturing Company 
to Arthur Marthcns.
2. $450. By Pittsburgh donor to 
Mile. Ginette LeClerc.
3. $450. By Pittsburgh donor to 
Madeleine Poidevan.
4. $450. By Pittsburgh donor to 
Mile. Renee Eustache.
5. $300. Social Work Scholarship 
by Pittsburgh donor to Miss Helen 
Free.6. $200. By Pittsburgh donor to 
Miss Maude Fire.
7. $125. By Carnegie Institute of 
Technology Red Cross Auxiliary to 
John W. Towns.
8. $75. By Womans Club of 
Pittsburgh to Miss Harriet Stone.
9. $75. By Pittsburgh Female 
College Association. Award not yet 
made.
10. $75. By Alpha Tau Frater
nity Division of Industries. Award 
not yet made.
11. $75. By Mrs. Richard Mans
field in memory of her son, Richard 
Mansfield II, to Carl B. Reid.
12. $75. By Mrs. Minnie P. Donthott in memory of her son Robert W. 
Spring, to Clarence W. Hunt.
Fellowships 
I. $500. By Irene Kuufmnn Settle
ment of Pittsburgh to Miss Evn Smill.
2. $500. Sociul Work Fellowship 
by P ittsburgh donor to Miss Helen 
Free.
3. Six fellowships of $500 encli in 
the Bureau of Personal Research, Di
vision of Applied Psychology. Award
ed to:
Eugene Bengs, Philadelphia, Pa., 
University of Pennsylvania; Hugh C. 
Clary, San Jose, Calif., Pomona Col
lege; Huldah Gerds, Milwaukee, Wis., 
University of Wisconsin; H. G. Kenagy, Warrensburg, Mo., University of 
Missouri; Bruce V. Moore, Kokomo, 
Ind., Indiana University; Myron A. 
Myers, Dartmouth College.
4. Ten Fellowships in Reasearch 
Bureau of Retail Training, Division.of 
Applied Psychology. Seven of $500 
each and three of $75 each to:
Magaret Barker, Cleveland, Ohio., 
Western Reserve Univ.; Anne K. Fin
ney, Evanston, 111., Northwestern 
Univ.; Watlierine L. Kerr, Boston, 
Mass., Wellesley College; Maud B. 
Linkenhoker, Sullivan, Ind., Univ. of 
Chicago; Irene McCrea, N. S. Pitts, 
burgh, Slippery Rock Normal, Valpar
aiso Univ.; Bertha Peik, St. Paul, 
Minn., Univ. of Minnesota; Helen E. 
Ramsdell, Manistee, Mich., Univ. of 
Michigan; Margaret A. Ruf, Cleve
land, Ohio, Western Reserve Univ.; 
Catherine A. Torrill, Canyon, Texas, 
Univ. of Texas; Eva W. Vogel, Pitts
burgh, Pa., Pgh and Allegheny Train
ing College.
MUSICAI CLUBS TO GIVE
HOME CONCERT MARCH 12
The largest non-athletic nctivity ut 
Tech, The Musical Clubs, will give 
their big concert at the Cnrnogie Musicul Hull on the evening of Friduy, 
March the 12.
From a sociul and educational 
standpoint this event is the most stu
pendous of the season for besides the 
excellent display of musical talent to 
be witnessed, there will be a formal 
dunce held at Syria Mosque after
wards.
The talent of clubs is the pick of 
the student body, having been chosen 
with the most painstaking discrimina
tion, by the directors, so that the 
clubs this year might be the best ever.
The clubs have met with greater 
success this year than ever hereto
fore; because, the ability of each 
member is above par and because of 
this fact, concerts far surpassing any 
previous ones, have been given.
Not one Tech enthusiast can afford 
to miss this big Home Concert and 
Dance. The dance this year will be 
held in Syria Mosque immediately 
after the concert and it promises to 
be an added attraction for the Techites who attend. Any person holding 
two one-dollar or two one-dollar-anda-half tickets can obtain tickets to 
the dance at one dollar each. The 
dance will be strictly formal and with 
the best orchestra in Pittsburgh to 
furnish music.
Tickets can be obtained at any time 
from any member of the clubs at 
50c, 75c, $1 or $1.50 each or may be 
obtained in the Central Building on 
the evenings of March 9, 10, 11.
The various organizations and Fra
ternities will be given an opportunity 
to reserve sections on the evening of 
March 8.
The concert this year will be full of 
life and witty parts, entirely original 
and different from stunts of previous 
years. There will be numerous spe
cially prepared selections besides the 
regular program. Make that date now 
and dont forget the place and time.
ENTHUSIASTIC SKATERS PRACTICE IN WEE HOURS
The first effort to start something 
in the hockey line proved somewhat 
of a success and somewhat a failure. 
Saturday morning at seven-thirty the 
Tech Hockey Enthusiasts assembled 
on the Duquesne rink to see just what 
sort of a bunch of puck chasers could 
be found here. There was a little too 
much Soph Hop still in the air evi
denced by the many half-sti filed 
yawns. But it was a start. By filling 
in with a number of high school stu
dents, two teams were formed and 
practice was practice no longer. The 
game continued until about nine 
oclock.
Next Saturday morning the same 
men arc coming eut again and all 
men interested are urged to report 
too. It is hoped that a practice game 
can be arranged with some high 
school team. This is merely to crystalize the hockey spirit and to 
demonstrate that Tech has the mak
ings of a good puck chasing squad.
GOODLOWS GOOD CLOTHES
Of purest Wool
Of finest Make
Durable
Lasting
Of latest Styles
Wonderful values
Sure Satisfaction !
Goodlows Good Clothes
Opportunitys
Offer of Style-perfection
Dress Up ! Buy Now !
College Men appreciate them 
Ladies admire Men who weer them 
Others envy them
This is your chance
Here is your selection
Even now awaiting your visit 
SERVICE FIRST !
Good Clothes
507 Market St.,
209-211 Smithfield St.,
932 Liberty Ave.
Akron Reading
Amsterdam Schenectady
Cleveland Syracuse
Milwaukee Terre Haute
Pittsburgh Wilkes-Barre
(3 stores) Youngstown
Fair Dealing Is the Foreword of the Tartan Advertisers. 
PATRONIZE THE TARTAN ADVERTISERS.
Copyright 1920. by Tho Goodyear Tiro & Rubber Co., Akron, O.
Hot Clinker, a Conveyorand the G.T. M.
Hot cement clinkers, 200 and over, to be 
carried from open storage to the grinding 
mills, were the crux of the conveying 
problem put up by the plant superintendent 
to the G. T. M.
The G. T. M.Goodyear Technical Man 
gave that situation expert study embracing 
every process in cement manufacture at the 
plant of the Standard Portland Cement Co., 
Leeds, Ala. He realized that here was an 
unusual problem. The clinker could not be 
cooled sufficiently in the processes previous 
to conveying. The best thing to do would 
be to provide some means of cooling it as it 
came onto the belt.
So he made two recommendations: a heatresistant Goodyear Hy-Temp Conveyor Belt, 
known to be capable of withstanding as 
much as 200; and a cooling vat through 
which the belt might run as it struck the tail 
pulley, and come up dripping with a film of 
cold water that would cool the clinker drop
ping from the hopper. Both recommenda
tions were approved.
Up to September 1, 1919after six months 
cf operationthis Goodyear Hy-Temp Con
veyor had carried 61,000 tons of clinker,
The Standard Portland Cement Co. credits 
a saving of $300 in belt cost alone to this 
Goodyear Conveyor. Besides, it has effected 
a high operating economy. A letter from 
them states that they are so pleased with 
its performance that we have ordered a 
duplicate for replacement, although from 
present appearances this belt will continue 
to give good service for some time.
Wherever heats up to 200 are registered
on conveying jobs, in mines, in coking plants, 
in cement factories, Goodyear Hy-Temp 
Conveyors special construction sets up new 
records in heat-resistance, ability to with
stand abrasion, and quantity of tonnage 
delivered.
Working with your own plant superintend
ent, the G. T. M. can make an analysis that 
assures intelligent specification of the belt to 
the duty required. The G. T. M.s services 
are yours without charge or obligation. If 
his suggestions and the Goodyear Belt he 
recommends prove as valuable in your service 
as in the instance cited here, and in hundreds 
of similar cases the country over, our return 
will be amply guaranteed by your satis
faction.
A*< ^vvcx<TH AOH< M ECNN<H RvD1T2x
Ojficcs Throughout the World
BELTPACKIHOSE  VA LV ES

---------------------------------------------------

| &vevttunQ forife
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 1920.THE TARTANPAGE THREE.
& TRANSITS AND LEVELS=) ALL SUPPLIES FOR THEDRAFTING ROOMDRESS SUITSTHE CAMPUS ANVIL
FOR HIRE
Also Complete Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince 
Alberts, etc. Evening Wear Accessories.She never shook a wicked lcnee 
Nor flicked her naughty eyes.
She wasnt an Art School flapper 
Who while of art they prate.
Are fearful that the day will pass 
Without a heavy date.
She never did a black and white 
Nor wrote a silly book,
But brother, Say, Ive fallen hard 
Oh, how that Jane can cook.
An Appreciation.
I met a girl the other day 
And she was wondrous wise,WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO
6001-6002-6003 JENKINS ARCADE 
Bell Phone Grant 1587. Night PhoneNeville 1536-W.
 Engineers Equipment, Instrug ments of Precision, Blue Print i] and Brown Print Papers and Sj Cloths.
| B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
Remember?
* Two ...swallowsmight not make 
swimmer but several often produce 
cookoo.
y ave onjjour 
'rawing supplies
25aiief dfyalem (imtgrrgation $
Fifth and Morewood Avenues.
Samuel H. Goldenson, Ph. D., Rabbi. 
Temple Study Tel., Cchenley 275.
SUNDAY LECTURE 
Sunday Morning at 11:10.
Everything for the 
drafting room.
Complete stock of 
high grade materials 
at consistent prices.
A timid little Freshman 
To the mission box did come, 
He dropped therein a penny 
And waited for his gum.
Refining Influences.
In olden days this basket ball 
Was but a ladies game,
And beauteous damsels minced about 
Ye gods bi^t it was tame.
But Shades of Skibo! times have 
changed,
And now upon the floor 
Do frenzied rough-necks biff and bang 
And wade knee-deep in gore.
Sabbath Service, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
Bellofleld and Fifth Avenues 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., M Inlster.
Preaching Services 11 and 8.
Sunday school at 10.Christian Endeavor at 7.We want the Tech boys to attend our services and loarn to know us as the congregation of Friendly Poople. A hearty welcome awaits you.
230-234 Diamond Street, 
fc. PITTSBURGH, PA./te master dnaumfi oencil'
The Weeks Short Story.
The little galley lay floundering in a 
heavy sea. .Wave after wave broke 
angrily over her narrow decks and 
went swishing-and foaming down the 
lee scuppers. Salt-soaked riggingdripped from the swaying yards and 
weather-beaten gunwales, while sev
eral of the masts went.rapidly by the 
board.
Yea, brother,, it was a hard night 
on the moors.
Etrewn about the deck hanging 
frantically to belaying pins and taffrails members of the crew faced the 
storm. In instant danger of their 
lives yet they made no move to their 
comfortable quarters below.
From the cabin came a low droningsound rising and; falling with the 
movement of the > boat and audibly 
punctuated by long sighs.
Columbus was showing his great 
egg trick for the 765th time.
It was at this point that the crew 
had decided to push on over the rim 
rather than to make a .return trip with 
the brick.
BellSchonloy 389
MISS OLEARY
(Formerly with J. E. T. Shuman) 
DRY CLEANINGREPAIRING 
Ladies' and Men's Clo^hos, Carpets 
Work Gunrnnteed and Turned Out on Short Notice.
Will call for all pressing and cleaning; at Frat Houses.
3933 FORBES STREET (Oakland) 
PITTSBURGH; PA.
SPECIALISTS IN
Formal Dress
Evening Clothes and 
Accssories For Rent
NEAREST TO TECH Jj
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor,
Nearest and Best Laundry j! 
Agency.
A8CEN3ION EPISCOPAL CHURCH Elleworth Avenuo and Neville Street DR. WYATT BROWN, Roctor DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant. Sunday Services, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.College Mens Bible Class at 10:0$, led by Dr. Calrln.All Students Qsnulnoly Welcome.
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
1 THE PLACE WHERE jj
1 STUDENTS ?!
f TAKE THEIR SHOES |
I Bellefield |
It Shoe Repairing Co. jj
Across from the Library
Old Stuff.
 Tis only six oclock, she said,
II ei; eyes were filled with ..laughter; 
And after dinner youre to come, 
Said he, Thats what Im after.Grace ChurchTHE 
NEW PEKIN
(Reformed)UAYARD and DITHRIDGE 8TREET8 FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. SERVICES:Sunday School9:46 A. M.Morning Worship11 A. M.Social hour and Luncheon for stu
dents, 15c, at 6 oclock.
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all Students.
Naughty, Naughty!
We strolled us two thru leafy lanes 
Beneath the azure skies,
She was a charming, tempting lass 
I looked into her eyes.
The bucls gave word of fragrant 
spring 
We strolled along in bliss 
She smiled at me and suddenly 
I slyly; stole anickel.* * *
Plebe: Where does Tiny keep his
horse no\v?
Frqsh: Didnt know he had one.
Plebe:,. Sure, Jesse James always 
had a horse.. , ' #  # *
A piquant profile cross the aisle 
Of a Homestead car one day,
It quite entranced me and to speak 
Drove/other thots away.
He smile would tempt an artists skill 
My eyes fell, then I chuckled,
My dream was gone for there I saw 
Her. artics were unb.uckled.
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
ISPIiCIAL DINNER SERVED 
11 to 2 and 5 to 8SKIBO INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
PENN AND Ff>"iK8TOWN AVENUESST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
[Jays.Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P M. !Jew 68. Middle Aisle, for Tech StuMusic at Lunch and Dinner
EXCELLENT MICALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO' STUDENTS
3708 Forbes Street Oakland
Schenley 3403 Y. M. Ming, Mgr.
DANCING LESSONS
BELL PHONECRAIG AND FORBE8COMMERCIAL CLUB SMOKER
A very enjoyable, smoker was held 
last Thursday evening by the Com
mercial : Club in Science club room. 
Professor Follows, head of the de
partment, gave a * short talk on the 
history of Commercial Engineering, 
its application to present day prob
lems. /He then introduced the prin
cipal speaker, . Mr. Elye,' who, after 
performing some very clever slightof-hand tricks,' explained the fake 
methods used by the so-called spiritualistic-mediums to deceive the 
public. Cigarettes, stogies, dough
nuts and punch were served.
CUT DOWN YOUR 8HOE EXPENSE by buying better shoes. You will find them far cheaper to wear than shoeo which are not so high in quality.
Our new models for FALL and WINTER are now In, and they are full of snapJust suitable for the college man.
17 Black Degrees 3 Copying
THE GRAFF CO
RANGES, STOVES, FURNACES,
MANTELS AND TLING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
NOTEArticles found on the campus 
or in the buildings should be turned 
in at the Office of the Dean of Men, 
Central Building, and lost articles 
should be inquired for at the same 
office.
PHONES:
Bell, 559 Grant P. & A., 559 Main
AMERICAN LEAD PENCIL CO.FRAT PIN  Kappa Sigma Rho. 
Somewhere in Industries. Kindly re
turn to Dean Tarbells office.OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
^oMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profit* - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
SLIDE RULE  Found February 
17th. Apply at Dean of Mens office.
LOST  A pair of black leather 
gloves, wool-lined. Finder please 
turn them in to Dean Tarbells office. 
$1.00 Reward.
LOSTGold fountain pen, between 
Morewood Ave. and Carnegie Library, 
on Forbes St. Finder please return to 
Directors office, Arts Division.
^

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 1920.TAJtAMPAG FOUR.
beaten little child of the backwoods, 
brave, sturdy, bright eyed and cheer
ful despite the cruelty she has always 
known. And in the end she wins out 
to happiness, overcinmg innumerable 
obstacles.
Heart O the Hills was written 
by John Fox, Jr., and in novel form 
was widely read. Mr. Fox spent most 
of his life in the mountains of Vir
ginia and Kentucky, and knew con
ditions there better than any other 
modern writer. This is one of the fin
est of his books, telling an exciting 
story and painting characters of rare 
appeal. He seemed to have written 
the part of Mavis Hawn, the little 
heroine, for Mary Pickford, it suits 
her so admirably. While the story is 
mostly drama, differing in this regard 
from Miss Pickford\s other recent 
productions, considerable comedy of 
the inimitable Pickford type has been 
injected into it, and one laughs and 
weeps and is thrilled in rapid suc
cession.
Upon inquiry among a great many 
of the students at Tech it has been 
discovered that there exists a sad 
lack of information as to the pur
poses of the Student Activities Board, 
not only among the freshmen but 
even among the juniors and seniors. 
The result is that the efforts of the 
board appear in some cases to have 
been misunderstood. It is for the 
purpose of bringing before every stu
dent at Tech, the details of organi
zation and the purposes of the Stu
dent Activities Board that this article 
has been published, and it is hoped 
that, guided by accurate information, 
all the students may sense the im
portant relation which this Board 
bears toward student activities, and 
will cooperate with it in the work 
which it is trying to accomplish.
The present student activities is an 
outgrowth of a committee appointed 
in 1908 to controll the expenditure of 
a fund which was assessed every stu
dent for maintenance of non-athletic 
activities. The board was completely 
reorganized in 1914 into its present 
form.The Student Activities Board is one 
institution which represents all Tech, 
the four day schools, the night 
schools, the alumni and the faculty. 
The membership roll is made up of 
one junior and one senior representa
tive from each of M. M. D., Science, 
Industries and Arts, one representa
tive from each of the three mens 
night schools, fourth or fifth year; 
four alumni representatives, chosen 
one from each school, the treasurer 
who is elected by the board and who 
must be a third or fourth year stu
dent, and the supervisor who is a 
member of the faculty appointed by 
the president of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology. The supervisor 
acts in the capacity of general ad
visor at the meetings, which are held 
the second Wednesday of every 
month.
According to the constitution of the 
Student Activities Board the control 
and supervision of all recognized nonathletic student activities shall be 
vested in this board. The activities 
which are at present under the board 
are: The Musical Clubs, the Band, 
the Thistle, the Tartan, the Carnegie 
Union, and the C. I. T. Girls Glee 
Club. The Board furnishes financial 
backing to these various activities and 
has in years past made up many deiihits which have occurred. While 
the board is empowered to control 
the various non-athletic organizations 
a very liberal interpretation is placed 
upon this word. The board is desir
ous of each activity working out its 
own development, and is anxiors to 
assist and encourage it in every way. 
The managers of every activity are 
required to submit monthly reports 
covering their progress and finances. 
The board wishes also to encourage 
all existing activities not already un
der the supervision of the board, as 
well as any contemplated activity to 
put its case for recognition before 
the board. Before recognition can 
take place, the constitution of the ac
tivity in question must bo approved 
by the board.
At present tho Student Activities 
Hoard is making plans for the publi
cation of a new student bible, which 
it is hoped will bo ready for distribu
tion at the time of registration next 
fall. A C. 1. T. advertising Bureau, 
which shall take care of all advertis
ing in publications such as Tartan, 
Thistle, foot-ball programs, etc., is in 
process of being organized at the 
present time. Many mattors of lesser 
importance are continually coming 
before the board.
As regards the problem of finances 
of the Student Activities Board, they 
are at present in a transition period. 
During the years previous to the war, 
each day student paid an Activities 
fee of .$5 and night students paid a 
fee of $3 out of which fees $1 was 
allotted to the non-athletic activities 
and the remainder went to support 
the athletics of the Institution. Dur
ing the last two years no such fee was 
collected and the Activities Board op
erated on funds received directly 
from the Institute. Next year the 
financial arrangement will be similar 
to that before the war. Each student 
will be charged an activities fee of 
10 which is to cover both athletic 
and non-athletic activities.
As indicated above the board seeks 
rather to outline general policies 
which will react to the benefit of the 
activities in the future than to direct 
the details. The board is primarily 
a branch of student government, and 
for this reason it is important that 
the students know more about the 
board. Hereafter all the meetings of 
the Activities Board will be fully re
ported in the Tartan.
yjf For mother.
Ur father, the boys 
if and airls. Its 
' the sweet for all 
agesat worK or i 
play. J
'ouncf soft drink
For college men, busi
ness men, professional 
men, men of sports 
baseball, football, golf, 
tennis, shooting, riding. 
For everybody, every
where, the year round, 
Bevo is hale refresh
ment for wholesome 
thirst -an invigorating 
soft drink. Ideal for the 
athlete or the man in 
physical or mental train
inggood to train on 
and gain on. Healthful 
and appetizing. It must 
be ice cold.
DAVIS THETER.
Pat Rooney and Marion Bent, who 
have been circumnavigating the Keith 
Vaudeville Circuit and its interoceanic affiliations since they were 
kiddies, have this year annexed to 
themselves a full-fledged revue and 
a retinue of assisting performers 
whose speed makes the flight of time 
seem a snails pace. Rings of Smoke 
is the title of the revue, which is 
from the pen of Edgar Allan Woolf, 
one of the best known writers for 
the modern stage. Mr. Rooney and 
Miss Bent are surrounded by Mile. 
Marguerite and Frank Hill. Lucille 
Love, Lillian Fermoyle, Maude Drury, 
and Vincent Lopez and his Five Kings 
of Harmany. Rings of Smoke just 
sort of runs rings around any other 
vaudeville vehicle the Twentieth Cen
tury has evolved. It will top next 
weeks program of Keith acts in the 
Davis Theater, featuring a composite 
program each afternoon and evening, 
in which there will be something to 
wake up even the jaded and blase. 
While Mr Woolf wrote the book of 
Rings of Smoke, the lyrics and mu
sic were provided by Cliff Hess and 
Joseph Santly. There are seven: 
scenes in the action, and nine sepa
rate musical divertissements in the | 
final episode, a jazz scene, where spe
cialties are introduced. A little for
tune has been spent on the settings 
and costumes, but these are really 
only incidental to the enlivening, in
spiring and unique entertainment.----------8----------
Voice on telephone:Yes, this is 
the Sure-Shot Detective Agency.
Stude: Send up two of your best
men right away. I understand theres 
a joke in Puppet and Id like to locate 
it before the garbage man takes it 
away.
jjr When youre 
f nervous or tired 
see how it 
refreshes!
The Flavor 
v. Lasts
,2*<C9<H0fC9i* 
tSa Louis
WR1GLEY5
IMPERFECT GUMVfe
Wm. DEMUTH Bi CO.. NEW YORK
W,OIUD*a LAROEOT M A K If. R S O I* P I N t; P IPES
vv->v<vvvvv-.'-vv^*>'^4'm'
STUDENTS WELCOME 
Fred Suddabys Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Day
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED. SUDDABY, Proprietor
.CT-j rnF9<THi"a BTNvHTSvHx
The Service of an Electrical 
Research Laboratory
The research facilities of the General Electric Company 
are an asset of world-wide importance, as recent war 
work has so clearly demonstrated. Their advantages 
in pursuits of peace made Ithem of inestimable value 
in time of war.
A most interesting story tells of the devices evolved which substantially aided in solving one of the most pressing problems of the warthe submarine menace. Fanciful, but no less real, were the results attained in radio communication which enabled an aviator to control a fleet of flying battleships, and made possible the sending, without a wire, history-making messages and orders to ships at sea. Scarcely less important was the X-ray tube, specially designed for field hospital use and a notable contribution to the military surgical service. And many other products,for both combatant and industrial use, did their full share in securing the victory.
In the laboratories are employed highly trained physicists, cnemists, metallurgists and engineers, some of whom are experts of international reputation. These men are working not only to convert the resources of Nature to be of service to man, but to increase the usefulness of electricity in every line of endeavor. Their achievements benefit every individual wherever electricity is used.
Scientific research works hand in hand with the development of new devices, more efficient apparatus and processes of manufacture. It results in the discovery of better and more useful materials and ultimately in making happier and more livable the life of all mankind.
Booklet, Y-863, describing the company's plants, *
HIRE YOUR FULL DRESS SUIT LESS THAN 
DOWN PRICES AT
HEIMERTS
OAKLANDS MENS WEAR SHOP 
IROQUOIS BLOCK, OAKLAND. 
EVERYTHING COMPLETE IN MENS WEAR LINE 
AT  PRICES  LOW
Some of the General Electric Company's Research Activities During the War: 
Submarine detection devices 
X-ray tube for medical service 
Radio telephone and telegraph 
Electric welding and applications 
Searchlights for the Army and Navy 
Electric furnaces for gun shrinkage 
Magneto insulation for air service 
Detonators for submarine mines 
Incendiary and smoke bombs 
Fixation of nitrogen 
Substitutes for materials
BATTERY
kExi de'
SERVICE
Broad and Sheridan Ave. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
...............................................................................................................................I......main:
At the Theatres
GRAND THEATER
Mary Pickford has como along with 
another great hit in her latest! pro
duction, Heart. O the Hills, whichThe Joy of Winter Swimming
The cxcrcise derived from swimming lias not only the endorsement of our leading social workers but our most eminent physicians as well. Most people indulge in swimming in the good old summer time but the fact remains that the body needs the exercise derived more in winter than in the summer, when it is possible to get outdoors in the open and avoid the evils that come from a pent-up life. The last person to fall ill from colds, coughs and the more serious winter ailments is the habitual winter swimmer, whose flesh becomes hardened and is thus able to resist severe weather. Theres a lot of joy, vigor and wholesome cxcrcise to be derived by swimming that can be had in no other way. The Pittsburg hNatotorium Pool is open all winter.
TUESDAY AND THURSDAY POOL IS FOR LADIES ONLY.
will head the program at Pittsburgs 
New Million Dollar Grand all next 
week, starting Monday morning, 
March 8. The performance will lead 
up to tho Now Grands Second anni
versary celebration which will take 
place throughout the week of March 
15. With an original story of the 
Kentucky mountains, Miss Pickford 
is seen in a role of the type that has 
won her more followers than any 
other characterization. She is a brow
will be mailed upon request. Address Desk 37
General
General Office AArr O') ly'Tl'vXF Sales OSchenectady,N.Y. ^ O lUlll O l 101V all larg<Offices in S5-1WD
