The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 7, November 8, 1983.
MCR renovated
WRCT gets facelift
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
WRCT, 88.3 FM, is currently undergoing 
a $14,000 facelift on its master control room 
in order to improve its sound and the qual
ity of in-house productions. At the same 
time WRCT, by updating the equipment in 
the production studio, is making a needed 
investment that should prove quite costeffective in the long run.
Roger Bishop, the radio stations general 
manager, explained that MCRs heart  the 
Droducdon board or mixing console  was 
auilt over a period of around five years by 
various students, all with different engineer
ing philosophies and training. The indi
vidual ideas were good but they werent 
ompatible and the board needed continu
ous upkeep, he said. It had exactly what 
we needed, but no more  there was no 
room for expansion.
The production studio, so named because 
t is the source of the stations life blood, 
nables the disc jockey in the air studio to 
moothly host the program. Anything that 
s recorded  station promos, phone inter
views, concerts, lectures, or carts (a recording 
of an often-used song or announcement on a 
cartridge)  are programmed in the produc
tion studio. People ask why we dont put 
our best equipment in the air studio, says 
Bishop. Its because the production studio 
lias things that are used hundreds of times.
After meeting with Dean Cox over the 
summer and explaining to her that the sta
tion simply couldnt keep up the production pace with the current equipment, 
Bishop and other members of the executive 
board retrieved money saved from last years 
budget and began searching for a company 
that deals mostly with leasing receivers and 
low frequency currents suitable for airing 
muzak in supermarkets.
WRCT has been a long-time customer at 
Radio Systems, so the company continually 
informs CMU of recent breakthroughs, as 
they did with their new mixing console. 
Radio Systems deducted 60% from the instal
lment fee and offered the mixing board at 
cost; in return, the company is able to adver
tise their breakthrough as a sellable, quality 
product.
The difference between the new and old 
consoles, as explained by station chief engi
neer Barksdale Garbee, is that dust or dirt in 
the new board will not degrade the sound. 
The signal is routed through slide pots or 
faders on the old console which permitted 
the sound to be affected by dirtThe total renovation of MCR included 
ripping out the carpet, redesigning counters 
and cabinets, and reallocating equipment 
space. What music director Mark Iskowitz 
calls a mess should be cleaned up in a few 
weeks, and the WRCT sound, according 
to program director Jumpin Joe Enck, 
will be cleaner, the quality of productions 
will be dramatically improved. Because the 
staff has a great deal of technical expertise 
and creativity, our in-house productions 
will sound much more professional.Engineer Bob Books works on the WRCT renovation.
Creative publication seeks submissions
By KYLE FISHER
Special for the Tartan 
The Oakland Review is now accepting 
submissions from undergraduate writers 
and artists for the 1984 issue to appear diis
spring.
The Oakland Review has traditionally 
been recognized as the annual literary maga
zine for CMU undergraduates since 1972, 
but this year the editors are making some 
changes. According to Editor Kristin 
Kovacic, TTiis year were taking particular 
care to use blind review' on all submissions. 
This means that editorial judgement can be 
based solely on the work, not on the identity
In this issue:
of the author.
Past issues of the Review have been critic
ized for including a heavy proportion of 
material written by staff members. Many 
other literary magazines seem to suffer from 
the same problem, most notably Pitts 
Backspace which included more than 20 
pages of work by the editor last year.
As returning editor, veteran Kovacic is 
familiar with this criticism and is taking 
care to make things different for the Oak
land Review this year. In addition to insti
tuting blind review, Kovacic hopes to 
make die Review more accessible to more 
writers.
Were not looking for material just from 
writing majors, or even English majors. 
Anyone who is interested is welcome to sub
mit. And were not just for juniors and
more writers appeared in last years issue. 
Co-editor Kathleen Barnhart adds, Were 
hoping more people will submit a wider 
variety of work. Some people think we 
emphasize poetry, but were also looking for 
more fiction, more one-act (plays), more 
everything.
While broadening its literary scope, the 
Review is also looking for more input from 
artists and designers. Its about time to 
change our look, says Barnhart. The 
Review is eagerly seeking black and white 
drawings, prints and photography. This is 
the first year the Review plans to run photo
graphy and the editors hope this will add to 
the graphic appeal.
Kovacic wants to assure artists that their 
work will be returned and given special 
care. All art will stav in CFA Room 302 in
Were really looking for more artistic invol
vement, says Barnhart. We want a good 
visual look in 1984. We have been kind of 
staid in the past. Now we want something 
dynamic.
The Oakland Review is a good place for 
emerging writers and artists to publish first. 
So far, it has been a showcase for undergrad
uate talent. Lisa Zeidneer, an editor in 1976, 
has published two novels since appearing in 
the Review. Several Adamson winners have 
appeared in the Review as well.
Writing and graphic submissions will be 
accepted at the Oakland Review Office, 
Skibo Room 53, until February' 1, 1984. 
Works already submitted to Dossier or 
entered in writing or art contests may still be 
submitted to the Review. Some 1983 issues 
are still available for $1 through the
Editorial
I 1 unfair to freshmen.....................page 2
Sews
College worth the price.....................page 4
^raft registration dodgers................page 5
Features
I cacher of the week .........................page 7
^ew comics/sci-fi store opens------page 7
^tertainment
^ shows are a treat.......................page 9
I ts off to PBT................................page 12
Sports
^defeated Tartans clinch berth . page 13 
future national sport?.....................page 18
seniors either. Many freshman and sophothe Art Department until it can be returned. Bookstore.
Compulsory draft bill chills CARD
(CPS)-Giving credence to their earlier fears 
that forced Selective Service military registra
tion would lead eventually to reinstatement 
of the draft itself, student and anti-draft 
groups are voicing growing concern over 
Senator Ernest Hollings (D-SC) new prop
osal to establish a peacetime draft.
Theres some debate over how seriously 
to take this proposal because every year 
someone seems to come up widi legislation 
to re-implement the draft, says Alice Bell of 
the Committee Against Registration and the 
Draft (CARD).
But there does seem to be more interest 
this time around, she adds, particularly
with the U.S. having troops in the Middle 
East and Central America.
The draft proposal also is garnering more 
attention than previous ones because Hol
lings is one of the contenders for the Demo
cratic presidential nomination, adds Kathy 
Ozer, legislative liason for the U.S. Student 
Association (USSA). Hollings proposes that 
all men aged 18 to 24 serve at least two years 
in the anned forces.
Currently enrolled college students would 
be allowed to finish one semester of study 
between the time they were drafted and the 
time they would be inducted, while seniors 
would get one year to graduate before begin
ning to serve.
Hollings introduced the bill because he 
doesnt believe the all-volunteer Army has 
worked, explains Hollings aide Mike 
Gopps.
Senator Hollings feels the present system 
perpetuates by placing the burden of the 
defense of our country on the poor, blacks, 
and the disadvantaged, Copps says.
In addition, he says, if you look at the 
demographics we wont have all that much 
young manjxjwer coming along in the 
future, and it is doubtful an all-volunteer 
Army will be able to recruit the number of 
continuad on page 5

---------------------------------------------------

contiunadp
cgc ea5 ti o6ad fnte eiauo5
C3T is violating the rights of its students.
When undergraduates are accepted at CMU, they 
are accepted into one of four colleges or the AMS 
department. Within three of the colleges (MCS, CIT, 
and H&SS), they are told they may choose any major, 
provided they maintain minimum academic 
standards.
CUT, however, is now telling freshmen that they 
cant choose any major, and they didnt bother to tell 
them before they got here.
Too many students are interested in electrical engi
neering, and ECE cant handle them all. The depart
ment hasnt decided what its going to do yet, but 
according to CXI students, one idea the dean of CIT 
is considering a lottery to see who gets to major in 
ECE and who gets to find another department. This
lottery might be based partly on QPA and partly on a 
random factor.
ECE cannot accomodate the large numbers of 
freshmen who want to join that department, and this 
is a trend we feel is likely to continue. ECE is going to 
have to weed out its potential freshmen.
If ECE wants to limit the number of freshmen they 
accept, thats their business. However, this years 
freshmen were told they could be in the department if 
they wanted to be, and its not fair to tell them now, 
after theyve made a commitment (time and money) 
to CMU, that they might not get into the department 
of their choice.
ECE should not reject any of this years freshmen. 
The class was misled, and they dont deserve to be 
weeded out in this way, so ECE will be stuck with too 
many people this year unless they can persuade some
to change to another department. This should not 
take the form of making classes unreasonably diffi
cult, as is often done in many departments.
For next year, ECE should have its own admission 
procedure, the way AMS does. The department 
would admit some students direcdy, and they are 
guaranteed spots as long as they make the minimum 
grades. Students rejected by ECE and admitted into 
CJTjin general, on the other hand, could try to get 
into ECE during their freshman year, but this would 
not be guaranteed. ECE could control the number of 
students it admits direcdy, and freshmen who werent 
admitted direcdy will have been told in advance that 
they are not guaranteed admission.
This system seems to work in AMS, and students 
interested in that department know what their chan
ces are when they decide to come to CMU.
Letters:
Computer is good tooI for studying human mind
Editor
In her November 1 opinion, Wendy Scott 
attacks cognitive psychology for ignoring 
emotion and motivation. To begin with, 
this is wrong. There is a great deal of cogni
tive research into emotional behavior and 
the effects of motivation on behavior, in an 
effort to understand emotion and motiva
tion as part of the whole intellectual system. 
The 1982 Carnegie Symposium was devoted 
to the topic of Affect and Cognition. The 
proceedings of this conference are edited by 
two of our faculty: Susan Fiske and Mar
garet Clark.
Ms. Scotts attack on information pro
cessing (IP) psychology (in which the com
puter is used as a metaphor for the processes 
of cognition) is more subtlely misguided. I 
would like to say a few words about this
Not incompetent
confusion since it is not uncommon among 
non-psychologists and is even unresolved 
within the psychological community. It is 
not true that we ignore emotion and motiva
tion. The work done by the Yale cognitive 
group represents a major effort in the 
modelling of emotions. One Yale 
researcher, Rolf Pfeifer, has published a 
paper entitled A computer simulation 
approach to the study of emotional behav
ior (proceedings of the Cognitive Science 
Society conference, August 1982, pages 188- 
190) in which he reports work done in our 
own Department of Psychology. Addition
ally, let me recommend a paper by H. A. 
Simon entitled Motivational and Emo
tional Control of Cognition published in 
Psychological Review (1967, 1, 29-39). 
These examples are just from our own, 
small, department.
It is true to say that IP psychology relies 
on a computer metaphor in order to under
stand and model intelligent behavior. It 
turns out that this has been quite successful 
in beginning to understand matters as broad 
as political decision making (Jaime Carbonell, of our CS department, has pioneered 
this area), cooking, and learning to pro
gram. It also seems to be true, as Ms. Scott 
points out, that the mind is a system which 
relies a great deal on emotion and motiva
tion. However, it is certainly not clear that 
the computer metaphor excludes emotion 
and motivation. The fact that we do not 
understand emotion (or anything else) ade
quately does not lead to the conclusion that 
any particular paradigm can or can not 
bring us closer to a useful understanding.
As scientists, we proceed slowly and care
fully. Therefore we do not have satisfactory
explanations (yet) for even a very small por
tion of human behavior. In our search for 
understanding, we take advantage of wha
tever tools we can. The computer metaphor 
has provided an exceedingly fertile tool. No 
one knows if we will be able to understand 
all of the minds functioning in terms of 
symbolic computation. Emotion is a tough 
problem - maybe too tough for the compu
ter metaphor. It has been said that When 
the only tool you have is a hammer, every
thing looks like a nail. However, it is the 
foolish carpenter who throws away his 
hammer just because he finds that its hard 
to hammer in a screw. We need to get the 
right tools for understanding the mind. We 
have a few very good ones now and the 
computer is one of the best.
Jeff Schrager 
Department of Psychology
garm15 3idn86 u65mi7o6o *1n8$d2 ti r6on8ad 6r6u46782
Editor:
I would like to respond to the Tartan 
article Doctor Criticizes Security of 
November 1, 1983. I am a CMU Police 
officer and a PA state certified Emergency 
Medical Technician, and I was on duty the 
night of the incident.
Concerning your anonymous source 
which charges that we transported the stu
dent in the wTong position: unless this 
source was one of the police officers who 
transported, or one of the students which 
accompaionied the patient during trans
port, your anonymous source is giving 
you nothing more than hearsay infoiWition; he could not have been an eyewitness.
Concerning the position of the patient 
during transport: Although it is true that 
normally when someone is having diffi
culty breathing, you want to lay them on 
their back.. this was not a normal case. The 
patient was constantly Vv>mitting, and was 
placed on his side so that his vomit could 
drain. Laying him on his back would cause 
him to aspirate his vomit, compounding his 
breathing problems.
Concerning the fact that the Pittsburgh
Emergency Medical Services were not called: 
in incidents in which CMU Police have 
called on Pittsburghs EMS, their response 
time was approximately ten minutes. Our 
response time for the three incidents were 
two, two, and three minutes. If Dr. Kielman 
feels that the student would have died had 
five more minutes elapsed, the wait of ten 
minutes for the Pittsburgh Paramedics 
could have been fatal.
Concerning negligence on our part: I do 
not feel our quick response, rapid transpor
tation, obtaining vital signs, and clearing 
airways of vomitus are signs of negligent 
emergency medical care. I believe the real 
negligence occurred when victim number 2 
was abandoned in a bathroom stall, and 
victim number 3 was deposited in his room 
to be later discovered by his roommate.
Concerning your sub-headline Compe
tence questioned: I personally take great 
offense at this. None of the doctors or even 
the anonymous source questioned our com
petence. Only our level of training was 
questioned.
Concerning our level erf training: To my 
knowledge, the CMU Police Department isSupport weapons freeze
Editor
The Senate has voted on the Nuclear Wea
pons Freeze. They voted 58 to 40, against it. 
In Pittsburgh  Senator Heinz voted 
against the freeze and Senator Spector voted 
for it. If you believe that the Nuclear Wea
pons Freeze is right, contact Senator Spector 
and tell him Thanks.
Senator Spector 
2017 Federal Bldg.
Pgh., PA 15222 
644-3400
For more information, contact the CMU 
Peace Alliance P004<g)CMCCTD, talk to 
one of the members, or the Greater Pitts
burgh Campaign for a Nuclear Weapons 
Freeze, at 281-0254.
Karen Parker 
CMU Peace Alliance Sec./Treas.
P.S. Big Events are vet to come.
the only university police department with 
the exception of Duquesne University in the 
Pittsburgh area that provides emergency 
medical care and transportation. Seven of 
our police officers are PA state certified 
Emergency Medical Technicians. These 
seven attended 120 hours of training on their 
own time, with no compensation for their 
time, tuition, fees, or books. (I believe that 
fact should show the level of competence 
and dedication of the Campus Police.) In 
addition, a program is being planned to 
bring all non-EMT police officers up to the 
certification level of Advanced First Aid. 
Some of these officers are currently certified 
at that level.
In conclusion, I feel that the headline of 
the article unjustly maligns the dedicated 
efforts of the CMU Police Department. I 
also feel that the writer of the article relied 
too heavily on anonymous sources of possi
ble hearsay for its charges against Campus 
Police. I believe Chris Johnston, author of 
the article, owes the CMU Police Depart
ment an apology for questioning our com
petence, since no one that he interviewed 
did. Instead of criticizing our efforts, the 
article should have been more appreciative
0mn7ni7 3idn82
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letten to the editor are opinions of individual authors 
who are usually members of the Unwerstty commun
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the wnter's address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. 
The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
of our quick response and quick action that 
may well have meant the difference between 
life and death for the three students.
Raymond A.P. Mialki 
. CMU Police Officer
9eHdvut7p
Editor in Chief.....................................Monica Cellio
Managing Editor...............................Gregg Bossier^
Acting Business Mgr.............................Karen Tylak
News Editor.............................................Pauline Wen
Features Editor...............................Pauline Kramer
Entertainment Editor...........................Susan Petrie
Sports Editor................................................Ric Medrow
Photo Editor.............................................Mike Pilewski
Production Manager................Carolyn Speranza
Ad Manager.............................................Bonnie Topf
Typesetting Manager...........................Patti Carlisle
Art Director.....................................Michael Sussman
Contributing Editor.....................Vincent Guinto
Assoc. News Editor------Christopher Johnston
Assistant News Editor..........................Doug Blair
Asst Features Editor v..........................Don Eggert
Asst Sports Editor...................Christopher Lewis
Asst Production Mgr..............................Bob Aarhus
Asst Ad Manager................................Andrew Ghali
Classifieds...................................................Tara Dieguez
Subscriptions.............................Dana Poffenberger
Production Staff: Peter Bain, Scott Bozic, Neil 
Greenblum, Michele Reisinger, Maria Rivas, 
Scott Safier.
Copyright  1983 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Office* 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-21 IS. Mailing 
address: Box 17. Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
1

It

---------------------------------------------------

November 8, 1983The TartanPage 3
Kurland oversimplifies 
abortion issue, problems
Editor:
This letter is in response to the letter cit
ing abortion as being ignorant and evil by 
Judith Kurland, Art 87, in the previous 
issue of the Tartan.
Miss Kurlands statement that: Abortion 
is treated as right or wrong because it 
involves an absolute - the taking of life is a 
gross oversimplification of the issue. Miss 
Kurland must first provide a definition for 
the commencement of life before she can 
begin to make such a statement. Some say 
that life begins at conception, while others 
will argue that a living being must be able to 
support life in its own right before it can be 
considered to be alive. There are certainly 
many more definitions, all of which have 
some plausibility.
Futhermore, there are many aspects of 
this difficult issue which Miss Kurland has 
not addressed herself to. First, Miss Kurland 
states: The inconvenience and discomfort 
of pregnancy remain but they are the conse
quences of her initial choice to engage in the 
act which is intended to result in preg
nancy. Certainly, Miss Kurland, you must 
consider the case of a rape victim who has
been given no choice. Secondly, Miss Kur
land must also consider the psychological 
effects this has not only on the mother, but 
also on the child. There is more to a preg
nancy than simply physical inconvenience 
and physical discomfort.
Miss Kurland states that a woman always 
has the alternative of adoption as opposed to 
mothering the child herself. This has not 
been carefully thought through as shown by 
the already overflowing numbers of 
unplaced children in the United States.
I have no wish to add my own perspective 
on this issue, but in general, a medium such 
as this one owes to the reader a well thought 
through discussion of how one comes to the 
conclusions voiced.
It is unfortunate that Miss Kurland con
cludes her letter with: People always have 
another chance though, and the most we 
can do, which is a great deal, is to keep 
learning and to keep trying always.
Miss Kurland should start by becoming 
more analytical and objective in her think
ing before she once again sets pen to paper.
J. Peter Herz 
EE/MATH 84
'A ^bk
IF 1w Dont TraotceON THAT COMPUTE, Li/PWIfr, goo'll 
NEVER mt tolYTOiNOF Yourself/
3 6*- 3*0WjUrei*>f JUW5Col leg Press Service
Kurland offers no evidence to support view
Editor
People like Judith Kurland feel com
pelled to state their opinion on subjects like 
abortion with great fervor because they 
think the rest of the world does not hear 
them or does not truly understand what they 
are saying. Believe me, Ms. Kurland, we can
not help but hear you, and I think a great 
many of us really do sympathize with your 
views. The problem comes when, after reit
erating ones opinion sufficiently many 
times, the mind becomes closed to the wis
dom which one may find in other peoples 
opinions.
You, and many other anti-abortionists I 
have heard, try to win the argument by 
simply making a flat statement of fact 
(such as Abortion is wrong) without offer
ing any evidence to support your view, (and
it is only a view), other than more of your 
supposedly self-evident absolutes. Do you 
expect us to contest you by saying Abortion 
is RIGHT! No, of course not. Absolute 
statements may sound heroic, but they avoid 
real, complicated issues in our society.
Please wake up about the alternative of 
adoption. A woman, after carrying a child 
for nine months, develops an emotional att
achment to it. This is not a sign of weakness, 
it is a fact of life, and to expect all women to 
give up their child AT THAT TIME is 
simply not realistic. Those who wish to may 
always choose adoption; legal abortion 
never precludes this possibility.
Granted, pregnancy is a spiritual grace  
under the right circumstances. By no perver
sion can a nine month pregnancy be 
considered a blessing for a young woman
w ho is trying to put herself through college, 
or starting a career. I wonder what tune 
youd sing if it happened to you? Of course, 
you dont engage in such sinful acts. But to 
say it serves her right, under your system of 
morals, is a selfish and unliberal attitude 
that quite frankly does not belong in a 
democratic society.
It would seem to me that a fetus is an 
extension of its mothers body in a very real 
sense. If the mother gets sick, the baby gets 
sick, and vice versa. A mother and her 
unborn child share everything: air, food, 
blood. The female gender are the only ones 
who ever have to go through pregnancy; the 
unborn child is the mothers responsibility, 
and NO ONE ELSES. There is no law, nor 
should there be, against a woman cutting off 
her own foot, although without some moti
vation we would consider her irrational. Of
course the fetus is alive, as alive as any other 
part of the mothers body, and we also realize 
it is more complicated than that, but by this 
token we disagree with the statement, abor
tion is necessarily murder plain and simple. 
Since the woman has the biological respon
sibility for the child, she should be given 
responsibility, in the other sense of the word
 discretion.
Dont misunderstand us, we dont like 
abortion either. We wonder how many 
potential Einsteins have been thrown away. 
But to say, with certainty, abortion is wrong 
and must be outlawed is to guarantee, just as 
certainly, dangerous illegal operations by 
con men, poverty, child abuse, and what is 
worse, a step toward 1984.
Carl Fisher, EE *84 
Liz Smith, English 85
Kurland lacks respect for individual liberty
Editor
This is in response to Judith Kurlands 
letter concerning abortion in the November 
1 Tartan. I think it reveals a dreadful lack of 
respect for the principles of individual lib
erty whilch made this country so great. It is 
not the (so-called) Pro-Life position I am 
objecting to; people have a right to believe 
in either position (or anything in between) 
and both sides have some good arguments. 
It is, rather, such statements as: In this 
society of permissive liberalism and individ
ualism to the extreme, there has been a 
frightening avoidance of acknowledging
absolutes, and ... it comes dow n to selfish 
interest. In other words, it is wrong to 
desire to run your own life in the manner 
you decide. Who, may I ask, should run each 
persons life? Presumably a group of dicta
tors agreeing with Ms. Kurlands set of 
morals.
It is also apparently evil to avoid abso
lutes bv giv ing the slightest thought to the 
fact that two opposing groups might each 
have some partial truths. Everything must 
be black and white, with nothing intennediate tolerated. Ironically, she later contra
dicts herself by stating that No one can
Organ donors needed
Editor:
Hi, I wish you would hurry and get me a 
kidney. My balance is getting bad again and 
1 hardly have any strength to do anything.
And when I dont do anything I am 
constandy getting in trouble. My dad drinks 
more and smokes more too. He even hollers 
at me a lot more. Sometimes I think he 
doesnt like me or love me anymore without 
a kidney. Im sorry my letter isnt cheerful.
Kenny M.
This is the letter wjitten by Kenny M. to 
Donald Denny, director of the Transplant 
Organ Procurement Foundation (TOPF) in 
the I ri-State Area. He, like six thousand
other Americans, is suffering from a kidney 
malfunction and is in need of a kidney dona
tion. There are other people waiting for 
hearts, lungs, livers.
According to the TOPF, once a person 
has suffered from a brain death, he is 
announced medically and legally dead; a 
cessation of brain activity and even yet his 
odier organs can still function because of 
mechanical oxygenation provided by the 
respirator. If the person has wanted to 
donate his organs, the organs will then be 
removed from the body and kept viable for 
transplantion for 12-72 hours (in a preservacontinued on page 6
categorically judge any person evil.
Going back to abortion itself, she appar
ently isnt fully convinced that a fetus is 
actually a human life: what she actually says 
is that it cannot be conclusively denied to 
be human life. It apparently cant be con
clusively proven to be human life either, or 
she would have said so. As far as I am con
cerned, the benefit of any doubt always rests 
with personal liberty. It would be necessary 
to prove that an unborn fetus is human 
life in order to justify using the coercive 
power of the state to protect it.
As for her paragraph on sex, it is com
pletely meaningless. She goes on about 
profound beauty and spiritual grace as 
if these things can be independent of the 
participants, and somehow above the tem
poral giving and taking of physical and 
emotional sensations. Beauty is in the eye 
of the beholder. I find it difficult to see how 
any beauty can exist independently of wrhat 
is perceived through sense organs, as every
thing any human being knows about the 
world is percieved through his senses. She 
has the right to state her personal goals and 
puiposes for engaging in any act, but she 
has no right to impose those on others.
This disrespec t for liberty seems to be pre
valent. In past weeks there have been letters 
defending censorship of movies (If you 
think Deep Throat is disgusting, dont
watch it, but dont stop others from watch
ing it if they want to!), and the drinking age. 
(Students under 21 are effectively secondclass citizens around here, as so much of 
society, perhaps unfortunately, revolves 
around drinking.) Hie cover of this issue 
reports on a student being expelled for deal
ing in marijuana. This is a victimless tran
saction between consenting parties, which 
does not harm anybody (not even a fetus!) 
who does not consent. The futile attempt to 
end tire drug trade is one of the govern
ment's bigger fiascoes. But why does a sup
posedly enlightened institution of higher 
education like CMU have to go along with 
this idiocy and kick out a student for show 
ing the entrepreneurial spirit by supplying 
something in demand which the govern
ment foolishly prohibited?
I have never used pot, or any other illegal 
drug, myself, as 1 feel it is senseless and 
unhealthy. However, I feel that each person 
has a right to weigh the perils and benefits of 
any action himself and make his own deci
sions, and nobody has a right to prohibit an 
individual from doing what he wants in the 
privacy of his home if it does not harm 
anybody else.
Daniel Tobias 
Applied Math *86
siu6 d6tt6u5 i7 ma46 6

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanNovember 8, 1983
College graduate job placement on the rise
By JANET SIMONS
CPS Stoffwritcr
After months of issuing gloomy forecasts, 
college placement officers around thecoutry 
have grown more optimistic in recent weeks 
about students job prospects this year.
I think recruiting is going to be up by 15 
to 20 percent nationally from last year, says 
Victor Lindquist, placement director at 
Northwestern University in Evanston, Illi
nois, and author of the Endicott Report, a 
national survey of student placements.
Thats still down from what it was two 
years ago, much less three years ago, he 
adds. I dont see any sudden turn. This is 
going to be a gende turn.
Lindquist and others have little hard data 
on which to base their optimism, but they 
take heart from the trickle of recruiters mov
ing back onto campuses as fall recruiting 
season starts.
The big thing is that weve been on a 
downward curve for some time, says Jack 
Shingleton, Michigan State University 
placement director and author of another 
annual national student job survey.
I think weve bottomed out, and weve 
started back up, he says.
It would have been hard for student job 
prospects to sink much lower. I dont know 
how it could get any worse than it was in 
83, Lindquist observes. Hiring of gradu
ates was off by 41 percent nationally last 
year.
Shingleton says the number of firms 
recruiting at Michigan State is about the 
same as last year, but that the companies 
plan to hire more graduates this time.
One of the Big Eight accounting firms 
was telling me that it was planning to hire 
10 percent more people than last year, he 
reports.
At the University of Texas-Austin, it
looks better than last year for sure, says Dr. 
Glen Payne, associate placement director at 
Texas business school.
Last year 490 firms came to campus, he 
recalls. This year were back up to 600, and 
so far theyre not cancelling at nearly the rate 
they were last year at this time.
One of five firms that signed up to recruit 
at the University of Califomia-Berkeley last 
fall cancelled, Berkeley placement head 
James Briggs says. He says the number of 
scheduled interviews is up slightly this year, 
and the firms hes talked to are more 
confident.
Dresser, which used to hire about 800 new 
graduates annually, still has a few thou
sand employees laid off and so will keep 
this years campus recruiting very limited, 
Papalexsis says.
Some energy firms, however, are starting 
to show up again at Texas, Payne says.
Phillips, Gulf, Conoco and Shell have 
returned after a years absence.
Energy recruitment almost ceased to 
exist last year, Payne says. Banks and 
accounting came through the recession 
almost like there wasnt one. He observed a 
minor slowdown in recruiting by high tech
nology companies.
IBM had been sending 25 interviewers, 
he says. Last year it was down to about 12 
or 15. Its back to 20 this year.
The market for teachers still appears to be 
sluggish, despite the rash of new proposals 
for higher teacher salaries and more teacher 
hiring.
Yet the school population is still declin
ing, and budgets are still tight, says North
ern Iowas Wood. I think that things will 
pick up dramatically in a few years, though. 
They have to. So few people are going into 
education, and more children are coming 
along. Already, enrollment is up for kinder
garten and first grade.
Berkeleys Briggs says some recruiters are 
returning with a greater appreciation for 
liberal arts majors. They show increased 
interest in hiring generalists, and are soften
ing their formerly-strict requirements for 
technical training.
He says liberal arts majors are having 
good luck among management, financial 
services and retailing recruiters.
But some of the placement officers tenta
tive optimism rests on timing.
Last year was the worst wed seen since 
the early seventies, concurs Don Wood, 
education placement director at the Univer
sity of Northern Iowa. This year remains
(CPS)-College degrees are worth much 
more than most people think, a new study 
by two University of Wisconsin economists
asserts.
The actual return on investment is prob
ably 150 percent greater than the standard 
estimate, says Robert Haveman, who co
authored the study of the economic effects of 
a college education with Wisconsin col
league Barbara Wolfe.
By contrast, the Heritage Foundation - a 
conservative think tank with ties to the Rea
gan administration - recently called for the 
federal government to stop supporting pub
lic education because it costs more than it 
generates in additional revenues for Ameri
can economy. But a recent study by the 
U.S. Census Bureau found that college grad
uates earn about 40 percent more over a 
lifetime than non-grads.
Haveman and Wolfe say degrees may be 
worth even more than that when they figure 
in the additional values of using what peo
ple leam in college in their post-graduate
difficult, but recruitment is up.
It seems to be rising most significantly 
among business and marketing majors, and 
from high technology' companies.
People finally believe that were in recov
ery, he says. Theyre more optimistic, and 
companies anticipate a return to growth. 
If you really want a good handle on 
whats going to happen, talk to (Federal 
Reserve Chairman) Paul Volcker, Lind
quist advises. Its going to depend on 
whether the basic industries perk up, and if 
we see construction of new plants. Its like 
dropping a pebble in a pond. One of the 
ripples of economic recovery is college 
recruitment.
lives.
Additional education is directly related 
to better health, the success of (the gradu
ates) children in school, and a number of 
other benefits that have not traditionally 
been counted as part of the value of educa
tion, Haveman says.
Better health, for instance, is worth an 
additional $3000 a year to college grads, he 
found. Their kids better academic perfor
mance is worth about $2000.
By being smarter consumers, grads save 
about $100 a year, Haveman and Wolfe 
contend.
They also calculated values for better fam
ily planning, greater involvement in com
munity and charitable causes, and less 
likelihood of criminal behavior among edu
cated people.
If people were given an additional year 
of schooling, Haveman adds, they would 
be willing to pay thousands of dollars for the 
non-eaming benefits of that extra year if 
those benefits were for sale.
gidd646 26au5 fiute te6 mun86
Friday  
November 11 
DH 2210WAIT!
5
WAIT!
Do not scratch until you receive instructions from the film.
6 pm 
8 pm 
10 pm 
12

---------------------------------------------------

November 8, 1983The TartanPage 5
Registration dodgers lose federal school aid
By DAVID GAEDE
con ntiuuadptgd
Very few students actually have lost fed
eral financial aid because of the new law 
requiring men to register for the draft in 
order to get college money, aid officials 
around the country report.
The new law  usually called the 
Solomon Amendment, after law author 
Rep. Gerald Solomon (R-NY)  went into 
effect October 1st after months of delay.
Most students apparently already regis
tered before the law went into effect, the 
officials say. The number of students now 
left without federal aid apparently is very 
small.
Two Iowa State students, for example, 
refused to sign their compliance forms  
the papers swearing to the aid office that 
theyve registered  and lost aid, says aid 
director Jerry Sullivan.
Other schools report a few students
Compulsory draft bill
continued from page 1
people we!ll need to maintain our defense
forces.
Hollings proposal is very surprising to 
us, says the USSAs Ozer, because he has 
l>een very pro-education in the past, and the 
draft is a very unpopular thing to talk about 
when youre running for president.
Copps admits there is opposition  to the 
draft proposal, but adds  Hollings is prop
osing what he thinks is necessary, not neces
sarily what everybody wants or will get him 
votes.
The bill, in fact, began winding its way 
through the Senate simultaneously with the 
October 3rd national day of protest 
against the Solomon Amendment, the law 
requiring men to show proof of registration 
in order to get federal financial student aid.
CARD organized campus rallies at 
Lehigh, Columbia, Wisconsin, Hamilton 
College, Montclair State, Oregon, and West 
Virginia.
The U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to 
decide whether the Solomon law is uncon
stitutional, but wont rule in the case until 
1984. Until then, all male students must 
register to get aid.
Representative Robert Edgar (D-Pa) has 
introduced a bill to repeal the Solomon 
Amendment even before the court rules.
Whether the amendment stays on the 
books or not, registration will remain, and 
the subject of reviving a full draft has 
become current.
The proposals to revive it are what weve 
been warning people about ever since they 
reinstituted registration, says CARDS Bell.
In starting registration it was an inevita
ble step in the direction of bringing back the 
draft, she says. After all, (the government) 
didnt want everyones name just so they 
could send them birthday cards.
who purposely have refused to sign the 
form, and have disqualified themselves from 
receiving aid.
But even those students may be getting 
aid from their schools.
Because of the numerous delays and false 
starts in getting the law into effect, its no 
wonder we still have a few students who 
havent signed, says Jack Sheehan, Boston 
Universitys financial assistance director.
Boston was one of the few schools to sup
port the draft/aid law initially. BU Presi
dent John Silber even announced hed deny 
BUs own aid funds to students who didnt 
register.
But at this point, due to the lateness of 
getting the thing into effect, we are not deny
ing our institutional funds (to non
registrants), Sheenan says.
However, very few students didnt sign 
the compliance forms.
There have been some who havent 
signed at Yale, either, adds Jackueline Fos
ter, Yales undergraduate aid director.
There may not be many students left to 
register nationwide anyway, points out
Selective Service spokeswoman Betty 
Alexander.
Lets face it, Alexander suggests, we do 
have a registration rate of 98.6 percent, and 
the number of those (who havent yet regis
tered) who are in college and then who need 
financial aid is very small.
If the amendment was designed to stam
pede the few last-minute registrants into the 
fold, it hasnt worked.
She says theres been no increase in the 
number of registrants nationwide since the 
Solomon Amendment went into effect.
So far, the government has indicted 16 
people across the country for failing to regis
ter. Thered be more, Alexander says, but 
many people who havent signed up are 
veterans and students who are also in the 
National Guard and dont realize that, 
unless theyre on active military duty, eve
ryone over 18 years of age (beginning with 
students bom from 1964 on) must register.
Aid directors take much of the credit for 
getting the vast majority of students signed 
up before the deadline, which had been 
pushed back repeatedly.
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Free Pregnancy Testing
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
COMPuters and COMPensation  
More than four letters in common
For most, the chance to earn exe
cutive pay ($50-100,000+) comes 
later in life  if ever. But in the soft
ware telemarketing business, it's 
possible NOW. To succeed you 
must aspire to a very high income, 
and have a history of self-initiated 
achievement. Also essential are 
excellent communication skills  
voice quality, vocabulary, and an 
urgent desire to understand and 
be understood. Computer science 
background is helpful but top 
people in this business also have 
liberal arts degrees or no degrees 
at all! Our Cincinnati-based client 
needs three good people by early 
December, and others next year. 
For immediate or future consider
ation, mail your resume today to:
Charles, Stuart & Associates 
2500 Observatory Avenue 
Suite 130
Cincinnati, Ohio 45208
Shaping tomorrow...
Y0U
Looking to the future. And helping to shape it. 
Be a part of projects that go far beyond easily 
defined technology. Live in a world where few 
disciplines are static, few problems are simple 
and few dreams impossible... a world where 
you can make a difference.
Your background
9bW
Aeronautical/Aerospace Engineers
Computer Scientists/Computer Engineers
Electrical/Electronic Engineers
Mathematicians
Mechanical Engineers
Physicists (solid state and optics)
Where you can start
TRW offers a wide range of 
challenging opportunities in the 
fields listed; projects that range 
from theoretical studies to small, 
medium, and large hardware 
contracts for space, digital 
communications, software 
development, systems engineering 
and microelectronics.
TRW offers full support for your 
continuing education plus a work 
environment that is exceptionally 
attractive to self-motivated people.
TRW will be on-campus 
November 15 and November 16
See your placement office for sign 
up information and plan to start 
shaping your tomorrow.
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required
Anti Submarine/Surveillance Systems Engineering
Avionics
Command and Control Systems
Communications Satellites/Ground Stations Systems
Communications/Signal Processing Systems
Data Handling/Processing Software Systems
High Energy Lasers
Manufacturing
Microelectronics
Missile Systems Engineering
Optical Communications Systems
Propulsion Systems
Scientific/Manned Spacecraft
Sensor Systems/Scientific Experiments
Telemetry, Tracking and Control Systems
IRn
TRW Electronics b Defense

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanNovember 8, 1983
More letters
People fear new Vietnam in foreign affairs
Editor:
With the recent happenings around the 
world that involved American troops, we 
have all begun to rethink our opinions of 
the ways in which this nation acts out its 
foreign policy . After discussing the issues on 
Lebanon, Grenada, and occassionally even 
the nuclear arms race with friends and rela
tives back home, I was asked one significant 
question: what do college students think? 
This is a good question when you-consider 
the number of college students across the 
nation and their profound effect on public 
opinion of the government (recall Viet 
Nam). From everyday discussions in and 
out of class, I have found that most students 
oppose our efforts in Grenada and Lebanon 
(I do not). The reasons seem to lie on our 
fear of these situations becoming the Viet 
Nams of the 80s. Further, if they do, most 
minds dwell on a draft that would be neces
sary to generate a sufficient army. Todays 
reasons for opposition to thedraft on college 
campuses are clear, since a 4.0 wont exempt 
you anymore.
The first response that I offer to these 
friends who are very critical of the U.S. is
that we use our military force to protect our 
interests (such as the American students on 
Grenada). It is our right and our duty to 
protect these interests. We also have certain 
obligations to allies, (Israel in the case of our 
presence in Lebanon). I was stifled to learn 
how vulnerable our forces were, and how 
needlessly those 230 men died. Still, my 
thinking is aligned with current policy in 
that we must secure our position in order to 
assist our allies. Finally, on the point of 
overall foreign policy, I believe that it is 
crucial that we maintain our anti
communism attitude and action. In some 
case, the only way is to use military might.
The second issue worth adressing is the 
draft. All of the arguments Ive given and 
taken are rationalized and hypothetical, see
ing as we have no draft. Still, the draft 
conjures up disturbed thought for most men 
ages 18-25, or so. I, however am proud to say 
that if the the draft was reinstated, and I was 
drafted, I would be honored to help defend 
the U.S.A. This is where the debate gets 
emotional. Patriotism, respect, and pride 
seem somewhat amiss around here. 
Undoubtedly, this is due to Viet Nam. Con
sequently, most would argue against your 
duty to serve if you are drafted. I think 
patrotism, and the other forementioned 
qualities, is the willingness to serve our great 
nation, and not blatandy oppose it in pericontinued from page 3
tion machine) and a list of patients waiting 
for transplant is checked for matching types. 
There is a nation-wide computer system to 
locate compatible recipients in the U.S. but 
preference is always given to the same-area 
patient.
Removal of organs will not interfere with 
the funeral process. Anyone 18 years of age 
or older can be an organ donor simply by 
signing a Uniform Donor Card in the pres
ence of 2 witnesses. The card offers several 
options:
1. Donation of any needed organs, parts.
2. Donauon with restriction to parts or 
organs specified.
3. Donation of the entire body for anatom
ical study.
Once you have signed a card, you should
ods of turmoil. Im not advocating that we
* all go out and volunteer to get blown up in 
Lebanon, but should you be asked to fight, 
it is your duty to go. When I say duty, I do 
continued on page 8
carry it at all times. Later, if you change your 
mind you only need to destroy it to invali
date the agreement.
Today Alpha Phi Omega members are 
bringing you the oportunity of giving some 
meaning to what is always an unexpected 
and meaningless death. They have set up 
tables in the Skibo Gray Matter (from 9-4) 
for you to sign up to be a donor. A Phi 0 
members are also pleased to stand for your 
witnesses. For fuller information, write or 
call TOPF, 954 Scaife Hall, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh PA 15261, 412- 
DONOR-7.
Special thanks to the TOPF and its direc
tor Donald Denny whose support have 
made this service project available.
Dieu-Phuong Vo
A 3en 0 766o5 iu4a7 oi7iu5
Presenting High Bias n and the Ultimate Tape Guarantee.
Memorex presents High Bias II, a tape so extraordinary, were going 
to guarantee it forever.
Well guarantee life-like sound.
Because Permapass our unique oxide bonding process, locks each oxide 
particleeach musical detailonto the tape. So music stays live. 
Not just the 1st play. Or the 1000th. But forever.
Well guarantee the cassette.
Every facet of our cassette is engineered to protect 
the tape. Our waved-wafer improves tape-wind. 
Silicone-treated rollers insure smooth, precise tape 
alignment. Housing is made strong by a design 
unique to Memorex.
Well guarantee them forever.
If you are ever dissatisfied with Memorex 
High Bias II, mail us the tape and well replace it free
routi mm TheNwspIS IT LIVE, OR IS IT

---------------------------------------------------

F6at1u65
Teacher of the Week
Drawing prof in "one" word: ambitious, energetic
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
This is the first in a continuing series, 
tentatively titled Teacher of the Week. 
Suggested by the teaching centers director, 
Ted Fenton, the series is designed to spot
light those members of the faculty who are 
particularly deserving of recognition. As 
always, the Tartan appreciates your reaction 
and input.
HERBERT OLDS
Drawing professor Herb Olds can express 
himself as fluidly and easily as he can 
dimensionalize a charcoal drawing of a rib 
cage. As an artist and a teacher, words do not 
present a stumbling block; rather, he literalizes art as a way of thinking, of invention, 
of pursuing thought  its a vehicle for 
pondering something. The 1973 Ryan 
teaching award recipient molds his abilities 
to verbally and visually express himself and 
presents his unique way of thinkingto his 
classes. The result is an unmistakable 
enthusiasm.
The old adage a picture is worth a thou
sand words doesnt even apply, because a 
picture drawn by an artist is worth many, 
many more than a thousand words. The 
idea is that there is no picture, not even the 
simplest one I can think of, that can be 
explained away in a thousand words  no 
possibility at all. In fact, you couldnt even 
begin to describe it in a thousand words, let 
alone get at the emotional content, and the 
meanings involved in it, besides the physical 
description . . .
How would you describe Professor Olds 
in one word?
One of Olds students, sophomore art 
major Chris Mandros, needed two words to 
describe him: ambitious and energetic. 
Mandros took Olds freshman drawing class 
for the required two semesters and noted 
that few people ever missed a class: He 
inspires you to come to class every time 
because hes so energetic . . . and 
humorous.
A sense of humor doesnt seem to be a 
prerequisite for the 1960 CMU (then CIT) 
graduate in order for him merely to teach his 
classes. On the contrary, Olds loves to teach 
and describes the process as a noble thing 
to do. He strives to encourage his students, 
especially the freshmen, through criticism 
aimed at clarifying any misunderstanding, 
while, at the same time, carefully support
ing their self-image. If the ego is shattered, 
Olds doubts that the student will ever be 
receptive to teaching. Consequendy, the 18-
year CMU professor constantly conveys to 
his students, as he feels other teachers should 
do, that he is on their side.
Nick Bell, a junior embarking on his 
third year of Olds instruction, feels that the 
professor is most beneficial as someone on 
the students side because he doesnt take 
sides. Hes honest about your work and 
shows a lot of excitement in class. He gets
along with everyone.
Olds lucidly encourages his drawing stu
dents to leam the language of learning; 
that is, not only how you are able to others 
through what you have drawn, but also how 
to begin to understand your own thoughts 
through making those marks. He thinks 
that an art student relays as much to himself 
continued on page 8
Seated Figure  Two Images, one of Herb Olds charcoal drawings, was exhibited at the 
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts last fall.
guan4 ktp 51mmd6r67t6o b2 8irn85 5tiu6
By NEAL JOHNSTON
Tartan Staffuniter
Were the good guys!
No, its not John Wayne and the cavalry 
nor even Obi-Wan and The Force. It is, 
however, the motto for Phantom of the 
Attic, a new specialty store located on S. 
Craig Street near Forbes Avenue. For any 
casual or serious collector of comics, sciencefiction material, and/or movie memorabi
lia, this store will be a definite attraction. 
And as an added bonus, its only a five min
ute walk from campus.
One of the first questions you may ask is: 
Why that name? Isnt it bizarre? The store is 
named in reference to a character of Disney 
genre and fame. Catchy, yes; bizarre, no. 
Next on the list would probably be: Why
that symbol? Isnt it strange? In a way it is. 
The logo, for those of you unfamiliar with 
comic bookdom, comes from the pages of 
Dr. Strange, a monthly release of Marvel 
Comics. Its the design of the attic window 
in Stranges sanctum sanctorum and a sym
bol for life. Along with this symbol and the 
same out front are several stained glass win
dows which give the store a simple elegance; 
quite an advancement over current 
competitors.
But upon entering the store, the true 
wonder is seen  an almost limitless 
amount of books and magazines. The first 
thing to hit you is a showcase containing 
old and rare comics, one being worth an 
impressive $500. Along the left and back 
walls are paperbacks and magazines; the
right, new release comics; and strategically 
placed in the center, the back-issue stock. Up 
higher on the walls and completing the inte
rior are posters and original artwork. If this 
isnt enough, there are also buttons, a large 
selection of movie material, and a vast array 
of baseball cards. Whew!
Phantom is the second store of this type to 
be opened and operated by a limited partner
ship of business individuals. In charge of the 
original store located in Ypsilanti, Mich., 
along with the new one, is general partner 
Jim Weston. His duties are looking after the 
overall operations of day to day activities  
this was found to be no mean feat.
Opening the new store in this location at 
this time has been in the works for awhile. 
However, only recendy were the conditions 
right for moving ahead with the plans. First, 
the abundance of materiaUn the Michigan 
store made the idea of expansion feasible
Next, an ideal location in Pittsburgh was 
needed. Then, last summer when an open
ing in the Craig Street storefronts became 
available for rent, the partnership took it. 
The spot was perfect  centrally located 
between CMU and Pitt, two universities 
with many comic and science-fiction 
collectors.
Of course Phantom isnt the only store of 
its kind in the Pittsburgh area. There is 
another on the North Side which shall be 
refered to only as the other guys (to protect 
the innocent). When asked of the good guys 
about competition between themselves and 
the other guys, John Persky, Phantoms cur
rent business consultant replied that: Yes, 
of course therell be competition. But theyve 
had a monopoly on the Pittsburgh area for 
about the last ten years. We know how they 
feel and can understand if they get a bit upset 
continued on page 8
New package for taw test
A major new service for students who are 
thinking ahead to decisions about post
graduate and professional degrees and 
future careers has been announced by the 
Law School Admission Council and the 
Law School Admission Test (LSAT). The 
new service is called The Law Package.
A four-part program of publications, ser
vices and self-evaluation materials, The 
Law Package will help students explore and 
evaluate their interest in law school. Stu
dents can take a tryout LSAT and request 
that the Law School Admission Services 
score it for their eyes only. They can use the 
results to evaluate their strong points and 
weak points.
The Law Package will also help students 
explore questions about the admission pro
cess and law school, the aims of legal educa
tion, and the range of careers available with 
a law degree. To assist those who decide to 
apply to law school. The Law Package pro
vides a guide to the admission process.
The Law Package will help students
make important decisions about profes
sional training and careers. It is designed to 
acquaint students with the analytical think
ing and problem-solving abilities they will 
develop in law school, and help them decide 
whether they really want a career in law. 
Freshmen and sophomores who are indeci
sive about their career paths will benefit 
from this introduction to legal education 
and legal careers.
Available from the Law School Admis
sion Services for just ten dollars. The Law 
Package includes:
You, the Law and Law School, a book that 
describes legal career options and what to 
expect in law school; key facts about U.S. 
and Canadian law schools; a bibliography 
of prelaw readings; preparation materials 
for the LSAT, including details about the 
nature of LSAT questions; and a sample 
LSAT with an answer kev for self-scoring.
The Test, a tryout LSAT that students can 
take and return to LSAT for a confidential 
oontinued on pane 17

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanNovember 8, 1983
N6f 5tiu6 ti 56uv6 5m68nadt2 8idd68tiu5
continued from page 7
over us taking customers. But with a 
monopoly, you dont have to cater to your 
clientele as much. We believe that the way 
you treat your clientele will determine just 
how successful you are. And we plan on 
treating ours damn well!
Well, the treatment has begun. During 
their grand opening, which will last 
through Thanksgiving or so, any three dol
lar purchase and mentioning how you 
heard about the store will get you a free 
Frazetta poster, while supplies last; and a 
15% discount will be given on all new release 
comics. Coupled with this is a free subscrip
tion service for twenty or more titles a month 
and a free search service for any book or 
magazine you want and they havent got.
As in any business venture, especially 
when opening a new store, problems are
encountered. What type of problems? Wes
ton and one of his cohorts, Bill Trimmer, 
could only shake their heads. That bad? 
Well, not really. Just the usual  ordering 
bookcases and material, the landlord, organ
izing finances, the landlord, getting insu
rance, the landlord, getting in the 
merchandise, the landlord, the realtor, the 
landlord, opening on time, the landlord. 
You know, just the usual.
CMU, Pitt join forces to aid Pittsburgh businesses
Grants of $l .2 million will be used by The 
Enterprise Corporation of Pittsburgh to 
develop and assist the growth of new busi
ness in the Pittsburgh area.
Plans for the newly formed corporation, a 
joint venture between the University of 
Pittsburgh and Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity, were announced October 26 by Jack 
Thome, chairman of the corporation and 
adjunct professor of industrial administra
tion at CMUs business school.
The Enterprise Corporation is designed 
to foster entrepreneurial development to 
provide direct assistance and consulting ser
vices to entrepreneurs and to startup businesses, and to educate potential 
entrepreneurs through seminars and work
shops, Thome said. It will also be an 
information resource and clearing house for 
new business.
Trustees of the Richard King Mellon 
Foundation awarded a $1 million grant to 
The Enterprise Corporation. Andrew 
Mathieson, a tmstee and treasurer of the 
foundation, said that new entrepreneurial 
business, particularly high technology ven
tures, will make a major contribution to the 
growth of Pittsburghs changing economy.
Additional funding of $200,000 from Pen
nsylvanias Ben Franklin Partnership was
Drawing professor spotlighted
announced by Roger Ahlbrandt Jr., assist
ant provost of the University of Pittsburgh. 
Ahlbrandt assured the support and commit
ment of the university through its resources 
and expertise.
Thome also introduced Tom Canfield, 
the new executive director of The Enterprise 
Corporation. Canfield was director of busi
ness planning for Rockwell International 
for five years.
In his new position Canfield will be 
responsible for implementing programs 
sponsored by The Enterprise Corporation.
We will offer a variety of services ranging 
from the preparation of comprehensive bus
iness plans to providing contacts for secur
ing investment funds, Canfield said.
Even through all that, the store is open, 
running, and planning to organize several 
clubs in the near future. The first Saturday 
of every month will be the Comic Book 
Club where collectors can meet, talk, and 
even swap comics. They may also bring in 
artists and writers on future dates. The 
second will be available for the ScienceFiction Club and the third for the Wargaming Club, which includes all you D&D 
players. Understand though that these clubs 
will just be starting. The members of each 
group will take it in whatever direction they 
so wish. What regular members want, the 
group will do. Meetings are at 3 p.m. on 
prospective Saturdays at the store. So if 
youd like to get involved and have a say, 
show up.
Store hours, to start with, are: Monday 
through Saturday from 10 to 7; Sunday from 
12 to 5; the address is 417 S. Craig in Oak
land. Theyve worked hard and still theres 
more to do. The work goes on for about six 
months. After that, all well have to do is 
maintain the excellence, replies Trimmer. 
Well, whatever the case, only two things are 
necessary to remember: the name  Phan
tom of the Attic; and the motto  Were 
the good guys! And youd better believe 
that pilgrim.
continued from page 7
about his work as he does to his viewer . . . 
in fact, more often than not, says Olds.
After receiving an MFA in drawing from 
Ohio University, he taught for a short while 
at Concord College, described as a small 
liberal arts school in West Virginia. CMUs 
university atmosphere drew him back 
because of the number of teachers who, in 
the act of passing out information to others, 
try to inspire and interest their recipients.
These continual transmissions of various 
acts of discovery' are not restricted to the 
language of drawing; for this universitywide contagion of curiosity, Olds is 
thankful.
People want to discover  people are 
constantly trying to figure things out. 
Thats why Im here.
This article was researched by a former 
staff writer Stephen Volan.
Youth should be proud to serve U.S.
continued from page 6
not, again, mean that you should die for 
your country. Its time for our generation 
(the one after Viet Nam) to get behind the 
U.S. with support and determination.
Finally, it is important thaf we do not 
overlook the sacrifices that our soldiers are 
making in the world today. We cannot 
forget those brave men that have died in the
past month for the U.S., for they are the 
bravest we have. If we lose respect for this 
nations fighting men as we did occasionally 
during Viet Nam, we will weaken ourselves.
My last words are the most controversial 
yet, but its clearly time they be reiterated ... 
Im still very , very proud to be an American!!
Bruce J. Fisch 
MEMS 1986
girmdan7 girmdan7
Academic Response Program
ymc 'mtymnmr'im: ww w w w www w ytmymnmoc mtK ymcmmmmmm mwwx
Complaints: You have them, we want them. Complain about anything aca
demic: courses, TAs, homework, majors, tests, and professors. If you voice 
your opinion we can take action. Fill out this form or pick up one at the info desk 
and return it to Academic Affairs Committee, c/o Skibo Info Desk.
Comments:___________________________________
funded by your activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

c7t6utan7r67t
Rainbow gives fans, old 
fashioned rock 'n' roll
By LESLIE BRUNKER
Tartan Staffwriter
The only uncertainty surrounding Rain
bow these days is the presence of vocalist Joe 
Lynn Turner. And last Mondays concert 
before a standing Stanley Theatre audience 
served only to heighten the mys* ter^- What was resolved is that it
jg? is possible to go out and see a
good rock concert, devoid of 
pretentions and pyrotechnics. No teenyboppers bouncing through the audience, no 
fire-breathing floodlights adorning the 
stage. Just good old fashioned rock n roll.
Though the tour is in support of their 
new release, Bent Out of Shape, leaders Rit
chie Blackmore and Roger Glover, known 
best for their work with the rock band, Deep 
Purple, and having between them over forty 
years of live experience, opted to perform 
mostly older classics. From their wealth of 
material, they chose songs the crowd could 
enjoy, including I Surrender and Cant 
Happen Here, as well as those that trans
lated well into a live show such as Death 
Alley Driver and the enthusiastic closer, 
Long Live Rock N Roll.
About halfway through the show, indi
viduals took the stage for successive key
board, guitar and drum solos. David 
Rosenthal, now in his second album with 
the band, played his keyboards in the pipe 
organ mode and went through an intrigu
ing medley of classical pieces including 
March of the Toreadors and part of Bachs 
two-part invention, plus some fast and 
imaginative innovation, ending in Beethov
ens ninth symphony. Ritchie Blackmore, 
impressive even in his arrogance, took it 
from there, playing a more or less stock solo.
Rainbows newest member, percussionist
Check Burgi, produced a solo the average 
fourteen year old drummer could duplicate. 
While his predecessor, big, wild-looking 
Bob Rondinelli, wasnt much better, he was 
certainly more amusing, playing a part of 
his solo with his fists and instigating 
audience participation. Burgis uninspired 
lines become very' annoying on the album, 
and are especially distracting in Fire 
Dance and Make Your Move.
But the big story of the night was vocalist 
Joe Lynn Turner. While it is generally 
agreed he somewhat clashes with the band, 
sorry folks, it is through no shortcoming of 
his. He is a far better singer and does far 
more for the band than either Ronnie James 
Dio (who left for Black Sabbath and has 
recently put out an album with his own 
band, Dio) or Graham Bonnet (now with 
the Michael Schenker Group).
Turners voice is strong and clear with 
substance and capable of portraying great 
emotion. This is seen beyond doubt on the 
albums. The reason it is not seen live is not 
because he doesnt have the ability but 
because the rest of the band leaves him little 
room to work. At times, Turner actually 
carried the show. In Stranded, he 
imparted a strong sense of loneliness and 
solitude. Drinking With the Devil, a 
rather raucous number, was made by his 
sheer youthful energy. The encore number 
Pittsburgh (City) Blues was a wellrendered vocal solo, and he opened Smoke 
on the Water with emotion that makes Ian 
Gillans traditional version comparatively 
blase.
The album Bent Out of Shape is the usual 
Rainbow. They dont do anything drasti
cally different, and it is certainly up to par 
with their previous releases. Turners vocals
Rodney Dangerfield, the man with no respect, will be performing at the Stanley Theatre on 
November 19 at 7 and 10 p.m. Tickets on sale now at the Stanley box office.
are irreproachable, and though Blackmores 
guitar is basically stock through the album, 
he does shine in the two instrumental pieces. 
Anybody There is a thoughtful guitar 
solo to an organ background, and Snow
man (by Howard Blake) is alternating flute 
and guitar solos, then a flute/guitar duet. 
Both songs are very well done and show the 
grandmaster of rock n roll guitar hasnt 
lost his touch, he just doesnt bother to show
it as often.
The band is not tied up in gimmicks 
either in the form of wild stage mechanics or 
elaborate electronic effects. The music isnt 
innovative, fresh, or even N.W.O.B.H.M.  
in fact, it looms dangerously tose to the 
dread dinosaur rock. But for those who 
like a simple, enjoyable, unembellished 
rock concert, not many make them better 
than Rainbow.
Julie Walter makes "Educating Rita" what it is
By LEE BROWNSTON
Tartan Staffivriter
Educating Rita, based on a play that was a 
success in London, is about the encounter 
between a hairdresser who avidly wants an 
education and her self-pitying, alcoholic 
Open University tutor. Michael 
Caine plays Professor Frank 
Bryant with his usual fine crafts
manship, but it is Julie Walters 
whose flamboyant performance makes the 
film so memorable. The role was written for 
her, and she does it justice.
Like Nabokovs Lolita, Rita doesnt 
really exist: her name is actually Susan, and 
only Frank calls her by the other name. She
comes from a stifling working-class back
ground which wore down her mother and 
threatens to do the same to her. Her father 
and husband insist that she have a baby, but 
she wants an education so that, in the quaint 
jargon of the sixties, she can find herself. 
It takes all her considerable strength of char
acter to overcome the obstacles placed in 
front of her. She turns out to be a model 
student: bright, hard-working, uncomplain
ing, and able to take criticism gracefully. A 
teachers dream!
Rita appears in a different outfit in each 
scene, and there is a rough trend from cheap 
to chic as her education and bourgeoisification proceed. She becomes less bubbly and
more inhibited, replacing her rough charm 
with arrogance and posturing. This dis
tresses Frank quite a bit, because he realizes 
that, in giving her an education, he is in a 
sense destroying her, making her indistin
guishable from the boring intellectuals he 
has always known. Nevertheless, everybody 
eventually winds up agreeing that educa
tion is a good thing, if not a sufficient end 
unto itself.
Contrary to what the ads suggest, Frank 
has a much greater effect on Rita than she 
has on him. True, he sheds his cynicism, but 
there are no miracles. The plot includes a 
number of red herrings, and the ending is role.k8it8e '7 kioa o6mn8t5 
di76dn7655 a7o o65manu
likely to come as a surprise, even though it is 
consistent with the theme (or moral) of the 
story, as articulated by Rita in the penulti
mate scene.
The film slides gracefully from comedy to 
melodrama, keeping the audience in tow' 
because the characters are so interesting. 
Some scenes, such as the hospital confession 
of Ritas roommate, are clumsy but are 
essential to the films theme. Luckily, such 
clunkers are rare, and almost every thing 
there is was put in for the sheer fun of it. 
Dont expect much in the way of direction 
or cinematography, though. Enjoy it for 
Julie Walters fine performance in a juicy
priCHO uy iAtmvii otiuiciuci
Scotch N Soda cast members lay it on the line in This Property Condemned. *
By VINCENT GUINTO
Tartan Contributing Editor
Last Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 
Scotch n Soda presented three one-act plays 
in the Wherrett Room. If you saw them, you 
certainly had a treat; if you missed them, you 
missed a good night ot amateur
/theater. The plays presented 
were Hello Out There by Wil
liam Saroyan, Tennessee Willi
ams This Property is Condemned, and 
Gag, an original one-act by Mark Levine.
Hello Out There opened the evenings 
performances. In it, the outstanding per
former was Darren Bevill, who successfully 
handled his part as a two-bit gambler jailed 
wrongly for rape in a redneck Texas town. 
Anne Wallace supported his character well, 
and the two brought out clearly the loneli
ness and despair of living in a small town 
filled with small-minded people.
Next w as This Property is Condemned, 
about two children who meet along the rail
road tracks. Willie, a girl whose parents had 
expected a boy, did most of the talking, des
cribing her life with her prostitute sister, 
while her new acquaintance Tom showed 
more interest in his tangled kite string than 
her story. Willies parents are gone, her sister 
is dead, and now the hotel/brothel which 
was her home is condemned. This is another 
play about dead-end existence, and this time 
its Laura Koretzky as Willie who brings 
home the mood of the show.
Closing the night was Mark Levine star
ring in his own one-man show, Gag, the 
best and most interesting of the plays. 
Levine enacted a monologue about the life 
and loves of Simon, a gag wTiter who is 
going nowhere. Levine played his own 
character, and gave it the portrayal only the 
continued on page 17

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanNovember 8, 1983
kt1o67t k67at6 8a7onoat65 mu6567t vn6f5
deficit. In cases such as these, I freely admit 
that I have been relentlessly hard on 
organizations.
Pat Schmitt and Joel Fechter are on the 
Finance Committee and have asked intelli
gent and inquisitive questions during 
Budget Hearings. I hope you will reelect us, 
as well as Jon Pane, the Chairperson of the 
Rules Committee, to continue to represent 
you and work for your interests. Thank you.
Polling times:
9:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. 
November 15 and 16
gI9: 5 56at5
University Disciplinay Committee, and a 
Faculty Senate committee which developed 
an intellectual property policy for the Uni
versity. I feel that these experiences have 
helped me to become very familiar with the 
administration and politics of the Univer
sity, and can assist me in continuing to be an 
effective leader.
Last year I promised to help streamline 
Senates operation by developing a more 
concise set of rules. With considerable help 
from the members of my committee, I was 
able to propose a large set of ammendments 
to the Constitution and Bylaws, which was 
passed by Senate unanimously. I am con
vinced that these small changes and clarifi
cations allowed Senate to spend more time 
dealing with student problems, instead of 
getting caught up in internal matter.
I have positive feelings about the ways 
Senate can improve its services toward the 
students of CMU. I would like to continue 
to serve you. Please vote to re-elect John 
Pane.
ANTONY SARGENT 
CIT
The days are closing between now and 
Student Senate elections and Im hoping 
that you vote and when you do, one of your 
votes will be for me. Why me? I think that 
the Student Senate needs some new energy, 
and I feel that I have the energy to help make 
our Student Senate a more conspicuous and 
active body of the university. I was very 
active in high school functions ranging 
from Student Council to varsity sports, and 
therefore believe that I have the experience 
and dedication to fullfill the responsibilities 
as your Student Senator.
Id like to help make CMU a better place 
for the students rather than just an ideal 
environment for computers. The issue of 
computers, last year, seems to confirm fears 
that the students have no influence on admi
nistrative actions which affect the students. I 
think that our views can have more impact 
if they are presented properly, and at the 
right time, to the appropriate authority.
Please give me the chance to serve you as 
your CIT Senator.
Vote for Antony Sargent!
LAURA SABADELL 
OT
I have been on Senate since February of 
1982, and the Chairperson of the Finance 
Committee since April of the same year. As 
the Chair of Finance, I have earned the repu
tation of a hard chairperson. I hope you will 
agree that this is a more respectable reputa
tion than being an easy committee chairper
son. It has been my responsibility to assure 
that the Finance Committee does not fool
ishly give away your activities fee by allocat
ing moneys for unjusti fif'd purposes or by 
allowing organizations to freely run into
H&kk: 2 56at5
JOHN LIVANOS 
H&SS
Its amazing to consider just how little 
input that a group such as the student body 
has on real issues, considering what a uni
versity really means. What we as students 
want and what we usually end up getting 
most times tum out to be very different 
things. Therefore, its important to have an 
active, well-functioning body such as the 
Student Senate which can bring the siudent 
voice to the administration as a force to be
CIT
I am currently a C3T senator serving on 
the Finance Committee. A native of Dela
ware, Ohio, majoring in Chemical Engi
neering, I have lived in Morewood, Tudor, 
and live off campus this year.
As a junior, I am very familiar with the 
issues confronting this campus and am 
aware of many of the problems facing CIT 
students in particular. My familiarity with 
the senate workings will be a definite advan
tage in achieving efficient results. Knowing 
the channels available and how to use them 
is the key factor in getting results from stu
dent government.
A better line of communication needs to 
be devised between the student body and the 
student government as a better interface 
between students, faculty, and the adminis
tration. As senator of CIT, I feel I have the 
erience and know how to bring this about.
Words must be backed by actions, 
please vote for me on election day.
LISA BRUNO 
OT
Do you know your senators? Do you 
know what your senators do? Do you think 
that your senators represent you in policy
making decisions? If you answered NO to 
any of these questions, then vote for me. Ill 
make sure that YOUR opinion is heard in 
YOUR government . . . and I mean it.
in Civil Engineer
ing and Engineering and Public Policy curserving on the finance committee in 
Student Senate which oversees and approves 
appropriations made to funded student 
organizations from the Activities Fee. Dur
ing my tenure I have done all that is in my 
power to assure that Senate business, as well 
as the allocation of the Activities Fee is car
ried out in a fair and beneficial manner for 
us all. I believe this is an important responsi
bility and I will continue to proceed in the 
same-manner in the future.
Student Senate has formed a committee to 
examine the alcohol situation on campus 
and to make a recommendation fora resolu
tion on a campus alcohol policy. Senate 
plans to submit this to the administration to 
aid in the rvaluation of the policy that is 
being undertaken at this time. I am also 
serving on this committee, because I feel 
student input is important to assure that our 
rights as competent adults are respected and 
preserved. I will do my best to see that the 
committees reccomendation reflects this 
viewr.
I have enjoyed being a representative of 
our college on Senate so far and would 
appreciate your vote of confidence to 
continue.
JOHN PANE 
CIT
Hello, my name is John Pane. I am a 
junior in Electrical Engineering, and am 
running for re-election to Student Senate. I 
have served on Senate since February 1982, 
and have been the Chairman of the Rules 
Committee since last November. I have also 
served on the Development and Planning 
Committee of the Board of Trustees, the
KELLY KALLENBORN 
CIT
My name is Kelli Kallenbom and I am 
running for CIT Senate. CMU has a good 
academic reputation but it does not always 
live up to its reputation. We all can think of 
classes or aspects of classes that are less than 
superior. I would like to change that and 
help make CMU the fine school that it is 
built up to be. Besides, we pay very much 
money to come here, and we spend a great 
deal of time with our studies. We deserve 
excellence, not mediocrity, and I want CMU 
to provide an outstanding education for us 
all.
Dont be apathetic. Vote in the Senate 
election. Vote for Kelli Kallenbom.

---------------------------------------------------

November 8, 1983The TartanPage 11
Biggest race in CIT; no one runs in GSIA
Reconciled with when making decisions that 
ltimately affect us.
This requires intelligent, rational, but 
effective dealing with the administration, 
acuity and staff of the university. To be 
uccessful, the Student Senate has to be senitive not to preconceived notions of what 
eeds to be done, but what it really is that 
YOU would like to see happen. This can be 
lone through senators who take an acdve 
interest in your opinions.
--1 would like to see great improvements 
ade in the student condidon, not for pernal gain as a senator, but as a student, 
vho, along with every other student, would 
ike to share in the advantages that those 
mprovements would bring. If elected, Ill 
e to it that those advantages are there.
gk: 3 56at5
changes, but it needs your voices and your 
opinions to function productively. Pres
ently, you can make your observations 
known through our Academic Response 
Program campaign. If you want an action 
taken or a situation resolved, you can come 
to me and we will decide an appropriate 
path. I do not have any specific promises for 
the coming term of office, but that I will 
continue to do my best to serve the students 
of CMU.
space.
Myself: Please, thank you, for allowing me 
this interview.
Giovanni Guistiani (Man On The Street): I
know Im going to vote for him!
Qrowd: We all will!!!
kU3A:  56at
gFA: 5 56at5
ERIC A. ROCHER 
MCS
Biology Major. Will be conservative in 
allocating your activities fee money. Sup
ports student-faculty relations efforts and a 
Student Senate Leadership Retreat. Favors 
liberal alcohol policy but believes students 
should be more responsible with alcohol. 
Says no to pom flicks. Has previous 5GO 
experience.
On a wider scale, endorses various arms 
control efforts and peace through under
standing. Accepts abortion and artificial 
birth control in overpopulated and impovished areas but not as an excape from 
Responsibility for affluent people. Thinks 
Jum Watt should be arrested for contriving 
to rape and Anne Burfore should be forced 
to live downstream from the Stingfellow 
Acid Pits. Backs presidents directive for a 
balance of costs and benefits for regulations 
and his desire for more cost-efficient govemment. Questions our involvement in Cen
tral America. Wants acid precipitation 
control now, in the form of best available 
technology for a few states and more energy 
ftmservation.
I thank all the people who nominated me 
^nd who will vote for me.
CINDY TAYLOR 
MCS
A student senator must be motivated, 
interested, and willing to listen to the views 
f the students. This person must also be 
ready to work hard and produce results, not 
just converse at a meeting. As chairman of 
the Academic Affairs committee, I have been 
receptive to the wants and concerns of the 
campus community and have worked 
Awards modifications of academic policy in 
iertain departments. These changes were 
fashioned, however, because students 
brought their complaints to me. The Stu
dent Senate can be strong and can effect
SURAZ IBRAHIM 
SUPA
When I was nominated as SUPA repre
sentative in the Senate I decided to accept the 
responsibility and to run for the office.
I think I have the credentials to be the 
representative of SUPA judging my past 
experience in student leadership and my 
easy going attitude with entire student 
population.
My plans for SUPA students include:
To give effective leadership
 To protect student rights
To create sound environment for effec
tive coordination between professors and 
students
To see the rapid implementation of the 
personal computing system for SUPA 
students
To give grand parties at the end of each 
semester_____________________________
GkIA:  56at
No one running
PETER CORLESS 
(FA
A Short Interview with Peter Corless:
Me: So why do you want to be re-elected to 
Senate?
Myself: Why not? It fills time on Tuesday 
nights.
Me: Dont be coy.
Myself: Seriously, Im the only person in 
CFA running this semester, so what can I 
say. Apparently no one else considers the 
position seriously, if at all.
Me: So why do you do it?
Myself: I feel its nescessary to represent stu
dents in a widely-supported organization 
recognized by students, faculty and the 
administration . . . Now we all have to do is 
to get a student organization to fill these 
qualifications. I think that Senate could be 
this organization, if it could rouse support 
from the students.
The College of Fine Arts, from what I 
have dealt with while on Student Senate, 
tends to dis-involve itself from the campus 
as a whole. Im try ing to reverse this trend. 
Id like to see more students involved with 
senate . . .
Me: Well, thank you, but weve run out of
b1d65
Election Rules
1. Rules and Regulations
a. The limit to campaign funds 
spent shall be thirty-five (35) dol
lars for a candidate for Student 
Senate, and one hundred (100) 
dollars for a candidate for Presi
dent of Student Government.
b. Neither the name nor the seal of 
the University or the Student 
Government Corporation is to 
be used on letters or other written 
material in a manner that 
implies University or Student 
Government support of a 
candidate.
c. There is to be no faculty, admin
istration, or departmental inter
ference in the Student 
Government elections.
d. There is to be no campaigning 
within a sixty (60) foot radius of 
the polls in Skibo. (This 
includes the entire first floor of 
Skibo, except the Tartan Grill).
e. A candidate may run for only 
one Student Government office 
in an election.
2. Penalties
a. Violation of rules la, lb, or lc 
will result in a 10% reduction of 
the candidates total vote count.
b. Violation of rule Id will result in 
a 10% reduction of the candi
dates total vote count, and will 
subject the candidate to discipli
nary action by the Election 
Board.
c. Any person caught intentionally 
destroying a candidates cam
paign material will be charged a 
twenty-five (25) dollar fine, and 
will be subjected to disciplinary 
action by the Election Board.
d. Any student who attempts to 
vote more than once, or attempts 
to vote for a candidate outside of 
his or her college will be subject 
to disciplinary action by the 
UDC.
e. Any action by a candidate or his 
supporters which compromises 
the conduct of a fair election will 
result in disciplinary action by 
the Election Board (subject to 
approval by the UDC).
3. Election Procedure
a. In order to vote in a Student 
Government election, a student 
must present a permanent, vali
dated CMU I.D.
b. There will be one polling place, 
located in the grey matter of 
Skibo.
c. There will be three (3) poll 
workers on duty at all times 
including at least one (1) Elec
tion Board member.
d. Poll workers must be informed 
of and follow the rules regarding 
the running of the student 
elections.
e. The ballots will be locked at 
night.
f. The ballots will be counted 
within a twenty-four (24) hour 
period after the closing of the 
election polls.
g. The ballots will be counted 
twice by two (2) separate groups, 
under the supervision of the 
Associate Dean of Students.
h. Tentative winners will be noti
fied within twenty-four (24) 
hours after the closing of the 
polls. Final verification will 
occur seven (7) days following 
the closing of the polls.
i. Election results will also be 
posted within twenty-four (24) 
hours after the closing of the 
polls at the Skibo Information 
Desk, and in the following issue 
erf the Tartan, 
j. All names of Election Board 
members will be posted at the 
polls.
k. Neither a candidate nor any of a 
candidates supporters may serve 
as a poll worker or Election 
Board member.
Questions?
Contact the Election 
Board by calling 
A PhiO at x2116.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanNovember 8, 1983
Dover Beach show expresses hope and misery
Dover Beach: An Interpretation, a uni
que show, will open tonight at the Forbes 
Gallery until November IB. The show is the 
creation erf John Seitz and Stuart Harrison, 
both students in the architecture depart
ment, and of James Crary, a guest artist. The 
three artists have created a complete 
environment in the Gallery, using, as their 
inspiration, Matthew7 Arnolds poem, 
Dover Beach.
Harrison, Seitz, and Crary have pulled 
elements from Arnolds poemits messages 
of truth, eternity, love, recurrence, and 
w'arand have designed objects which sup
port and extend the meaning of the poem. 
The objects the artists have designed fall 
into two categories. In one category7 are the 
objects which express feelings related to 
Arnolds statements concerning the turbid 
ebb and flow of human misery.
Newr York Times, Monday, October 23, 
1983, a sculpture by Seitz, is a construction 
of stretched canvas and wood with spears 
tearing through the material. Seitz designed 
the object as an expression of the conflicts
which rip our world from its potential 
peace. Another sculpture by Seitz includes a 
highly crafted wood benchelegant and 
simpleupon which is seated a plexiglass 
figure held together with rough steel bolts. 
The figure is crouched in a position of fear 
and despair.
The second category of objects expresses 
the most important part of Dover 
Beachthe hope it expresses. Harrison has 
designed a Stele in Memoriam, a sculptu
ral representation of a window Arnold uses 
as a symbol in his poem. The stele will be 
seen in renderings, as it is to be built in 
limestone. The object eloquently expresses 
the potential for harmony and intellectual 
resolution of which Arnold speaks. The 
peacefulness and stability of Arnolds poem 
take lovely form in this monument. Also 
expressing the hope and harmony of 
Arnolds message is Then Again Begin, a 
fountain designed and built by Seitz. The 
fountain is both a visual element and an 
aural element; the sound of falling streams 
of water are carefully orchestrated as music.
Each element of the show is reasoned 
through and connects with the overall con
ception the artists have formed. After expe
riencing the sound and motion of the pieces 
in the main room of the Gallery, a viewer is 
invited into the backroom to see Still 
Pool. A huge, beautifully crafted copper
basin rests silently, filled with motionless 
water. The hope Arnold speaks of lies in < 
contemplation, in peace. The artists have 
even supplied that atmosphere.
The opening of Dover Beach: An Inter
pretation is from 7 to 9 p.m. this evening.
"Add te6 bn4et siv65" 
oi657't ra$6
By DOUG BLAIR
Assistant News Editor
Tom Cruise plays a high school football 
player attempting to cash in his talent for an 
engineering diploma in All the Right 
Moves. I have seen very few movies with less 
plot than Moves.
In Ampipe, Pennsylvania, 
Stefan Georgivich is a comerback on the high school football 
team. Stefan (bright boy that he is) sees that 
the small steel town is dying with the steel 
mill that grew7 it. He therefore decides to
a72
Wilde inspires PBTBallets offer diverse music and style
By SUSAN E. PETRIE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Hats off to Patricia Wilde, the new7 artistic 
director for the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre, 
for her inspiring efforts toward revitalizing 
the company! The Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre, one of the top ten in the United 
States 900 companies, has undergone 
several major changes since Ms. Wilde took 
over two seasons ago  one of them a great 
alteration in company personnel  and the 
effect is tremendous.
Now operating with a younger and more 
diverse group of dancers, the company
performs with more vigor and enthusiasm 
than ever before. The ballets offer 
something for everyone - from classicism to 
romanticism to modernism. The latest 
show, staged at Heinze Hall on October 31, 
November 1 and 2, incorporated the 
emotional tempests of Tchaikovsky and the 
graceful, pastel-like motifs of Debussy, as 
well as the Spanish flavor of Adolf Adam 
and the compelling vivacity of Hector 
Berlioz.
Each of the four ballets was 
choreographed by different choreographers, 
and each added a new dimension to the
audiences appreciation of dance.
George Balanchine, no new face to the 
ballet scene, brought classical formality as 
well as entertaining lightness to Allegro 
Brillante, with music from the third piano 
concerto of Peter Tchaikovsky. Dancing as 
if on eggshells, the dancers seemed to enjoy 
drawing the audience onto the stage with 
their " quick movements and incredible 
confidence.
Divertissement DAdam is a short ballet 
with music by Adolf Adam. Choreographed 
by Ramon Segarra, Wildes special assistant 
continued on page 17
become an engineer and escapes the trap. *
From here on out the movie deteriorates. 
We are to believe that Stefan is bright 
enough to make it as an engineer, when his 
only experience in the field is the manufac
ture of a half dozen technical drawings. His 
buddy gets his girlfriend pregnant and there
fore cannot go to college, even though he 
has been offered a scholarship to a major 
school: a perfect example of the fate await
ing Stefan if he cant get out.
He almost doesnt get out. Coach Nicker
son (I will protect the actors name here; he 
may want to work again sometime) thinks 
that Stefan was part of a group of people 
who trashed his house after a big loss. He 
blacklists Stefan, and all the recruiters shy 
away from the young Georgivich. The rest 
of the movie concerns Stefans attempts to 
get Mickerson to take him off the blacklist, 
and various portraits of failing men and 
women who wont escape the decay of the 
town.
In favor of the movie, I will say that the 
spirit of high school football games is 
brought accurately to the screen. Against the 
film, I will say that it was trite, predictable, 
thin, and a general waste of money.
Oh, I forgot another point in its favor; All 
the Right Moves is short. Thank Gexl.
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITYS 
PHYSICAL EDUCATION REGISTRATION
9 a.m. 
1 p.m.
- 12 p.m.
- 4 p.m.
Register in Baker Hall near the Academic Advisory Center 
Or in Skibo Hall near the Student Information Desk

---------------------------------------------------

Ill playoffs await #2 ranked team
sU fn7n5e65 17o6f6at6o fnte 9-0 fn7
1 CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Irfan Assistant Sports Editor
 Nine-and-0, said Joe Mollica.
1 After two games of the season, Mollica 
|d that the team was going to beat Hiram, 
that would start the snowball rolling to 
undefeated season. It seemed like a disit dream.
)ream has become reality. The Tartans 
Hiram that week, 46-0, and Saturdays 
to win over the John Carroll Blue Streaks 
led the regular season.
9gU played the Tartans tough. But the 
1U Bandits defense was once again the 
factor. JCU marked the Tartans 
shutout of the year. In nine games, the 
gave up just 47 points. Last week 
held the Presidents Athletic Conferenleading rusher, Cases Jim Donnelly, to 
66 yards, and only 16 in the second half.
JCU, the Bandits held Brad Cantwho ran for 201 yards last week versus 
, to just 40 yards, only seven in the 
half. JCU did cross the goal line 
;e. Blue Streak quarterback Steve Sabath 
62 yards to Tom Catanzarite for what 
to be the tying score in the third 
But it was negated due to a JCU 
penalty, and the Tartan shutout 
preserved.
le CMU offense had its strong rushing 
lead the way once again. Joe Vasalani 
77 yards on 23 carries and scored two 
ehdowns. Vasalanis two scores, from 
ar and one yards out, broke the PAC 
lord for touchdowns in a season. The 
lior flanker/halfback now has 14 touch - 
Iwns, 13 in conference play, and a PAC 
ford 78 points. Vasalani was awarded 
ioal player-of-the-game for his 
rformance.
"spite the final score, it was a rather 
[Muster performance. It was a tough 
re to get up for, said senior tight end 
?.n Wise. JCU mistakes and some big 
biKs were all the Tartans needed, however. 
fU knew that the ball was falling CMUs 
ky. A third quarter pass from Dave Zito 
I veiled 13 yards, bounced off Tartan 
peiver Roger Roble, deflected off a JCU 
[ety, then off another JCU defender, and 
ien it came down again it was in Robles 
|nds for a sixteen yard gain. The play came 
a fourth-and-ten situation. Three plays 
ter the Tartans scored their second
It was far from a well played game. A JCU 
statistician described Wasmer Field in Cleve
land as a quagmire. Joe Mollica was 
about to run for a first down on fourth-andone when his feet slipped and he fell for a 
loss. On one kickoff, Catanzarite caught the 
ball, took one step, and hit the ground. A 
fourth quarter view of center Mark Brado 
showed his arms completely caked with 
mud.
To add to the mess, it was about 38 
degrees and there was a brisk wind. Punter 
Mike OShip averaged just 34.3 yards per 
kick, but was still a factor in the game. He 
was roughed on a fourth-and-eight play 
resulting in a first down. On a fourth-andone play in the second quarter, OShip, a 
sprinter on the CMU track team, ran nine 
yards for the first down. OShip now has 35 
yards on two carries this season.
The white and go teams were back 
again this week, with Joe Mollica once 
again splitting time with Dave Zito, after 
Zito played the entire game versus 
Reserve last week.
It was once again a case of the Tartan 
defense, led by linebacker Mike Paterchaks 
12 tackles, stopping their opponents whe
never necessary. It is this defense that leads 
the 9-0 Tartans to the Division III playoffs.
Ranked number two nationally, it is 
assumed the Tartans will be the number two 
seed in the eight team tournament, behind 
number one ranked Augustana College of 
Illinois, who defeated number ten ranked 
Elmhurst 23-16. The exact seedings and the 
CMU opponent will not be known until 
next Sunday. A host of top ranked teams 
have games to play next week. But as of now 
it looks like this:
 the Tartans have a week off. Coach 
Chuck Klausing will resume practice on 
Saturday, November 12.
 on November 19, the Tartans play the 
second ranked team in the Southern region. 
As of last week, Salisbury' St. and Susque
hanna were tied for that distinction. Salis
bury St. won their game Saturday, 21-20. 
The Susquehanna score had not yet been 
reported.
 if things remain unchanged, CMU will 
be at Tech Field for the game against their 
southern division rival.
 if CMU gets past the first round, it will 
play the winner of the Eastern Region., If 
nothing changes, number three Hofstra will
^ Tartan defensive back hauls down Blue Streak fullback Frank Regalbuto.
Soccer ends year 9-5
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Staffwritrr
The CMU soccer team closed out its regu
lar season Tuesday by defeating Robert 
Morris College, 4-0, at Robert Morris. The 
game ended an up and down season.
As far as the game is concerned, there was 
no big surprise. Second half goals by Doug
photo by Christopher D. Lewis
Anderson, Ted Anderer, Charlie Lockhead 
and Kevin Greener powered the Tartans to a 
4-0 shutout, which was to be expected. It 
was just a matter erf how many goals we 
got, explained Ted Anderer.
The team was now left wondering anx
iously about its playoff possibilities. Earlier 
losses to Case Western and John Carroll had 
certainly damaged playoff hopes, but had 
not elimainated the Tartans.
The regular season was a crazy season 
in the w ords of Anderer. Lockhead described 
the team as very inconsistent. Nobody 
could understand.
CMU beat top teams like Slippery Rock 
(3-0), Geneva (3-2), and Frostburg St. (2-1), 
but finished w ith a record of 2-4 in the Presi
dents Athletic Conference. Anderson 
explained, We played better than expected 
against better teams, and blew' it against 
conference opponents.
The squad finished with an overall record 
1 of 9-5, as many wrins as any team in the PAC. 
but its 2-4 conference record was better than 
only the winless tandem of Hiram College 
and Washington and Jefferson.
Anderer, Anderson, and Coach Gaudioso 
all felt that this years club finished better 
than we expected. But Lockhead was 
slightly disappointed, noting the team's 
unexpected conference losses. Gaudioso felt 
that just being considered for the playerffs 
in soccer is something new around here, an 
indication of the team's exceptional play 
this year.
Lockhead had nothing but praise for the 
coaching job Gaudioso has done, pointing 
out that three freshmen started and had 
continued on ptg* 17
photo by Christopher D. Lewis 
Flanker Brad Huwars uniform shows the wear and tear of a cold, wet, Cleveland day.
play fourth ranked Union for that title. 
There are many implications that will 
decide whether that game is at home or 
awray. Regardless, it will be played 
November 26.
 The Division III final will be played at 
East Island, Ohio, just outside of Cincinatti, 
on December 3.
Meanw hile, Klausing has personnel decisions to make, mainly concerning the 
offense. Will he go with Zito all the w^ay, as 
he did last week against Case, or stick with 
the white and go that he returned to 
today? Will he re-install the gray team, a 
mixture that only he can explain with any 
accuracy?
Klausing had just one comment on these 
questions. I have to see the films, he said.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanNovember 8, 1983
Tartan icemen remain undefeated
Ice hockey drills the puck and its op
By JOHN KENNEY
g15tir D65n476oHanu5t2d65that only look expensive I
Tartan Staffxvritrr
The Camegie-Mellon ice hockey team 
extended its winning streak to three games 
last week by defeating Duquesne 7-4 on 
Wednesday night, and routing Slippery 
Rock 6-1 on Saturday. Their record now 
stands at 3-0.
In the first game, Kevin Scully filled in 
well for missing captain Andy Andrejko, 
out due to illness, and led his team with two 
goals and two assists. CMU started the scor
ing in the final minutes of a first period 
heavily marked by penal ties. The first goal 
came at 13:21 when Kevin Scully passed the 
puck to the point where defenseman Ted 
Dawson slapped it past Duquesne goalie 
Jim Weir. A few' minutes later, at 14:01, the 
Tartans tallied again as left wingJSill Heyse 
received a breakaway pass from Dave DeBonville just past mid-ice, took it to the 
Dukes crease, and beat the goalie to score.
CMU entered the second period confidendy and increased their lead to three goals 
at four-and-a-half minutes in as DeBonville 
scored off of a rebound of a Scully slapshot. 
The Dukes werent far behind, however, and 
they narrowed the gap to two goals by capi
talizing on a power play situation late in the 
period.
The third period opened with CMU look
ing good, as assistant captain Tim Kenny 
scored on a shot to the upper right comer 
after taking the puck the length of the ice.
The Tartans and Dukes then scored a 
goal apiece, Duquesne first at 9:16 and 
Camegie-Mellon next at 10:42, when Heyse 
and Scully combined in a two on one, Heyse 
passing to Scully for the goal.
Duquesne hung on tight, however, and 
took advaniage of defensive lapses, scoring
3LAgc: Ba$6f HaH
DEPOSIT $15.00 _ a Division of Carnation CompanyUHERFF JONES
trick as CMU buried the Rockets 6-1. The 
Tartans dominated the first period but were 
only able to manage one goal, this at 7:20 
when Kenny passed the puck to center Mike 
Halloran who fired a slapshot in from the 
top of the circle.
The Tartans broke the game wide open in 
the second period by capitalizing on a fouron-three situation resulting from a fight on 
the ice involving CMUs Dave DeBonville 
and three Slippery Rock players. CMU 
quickly scored three goals, two by Katz and
[JATE* November 9th & 10th 10 a*m* to * P,mThe Tartans
at 11:03 and 11:30 to narrow the margin to
5-4.
The Tartans rallied to put the game out of 
reach once and for all with two quick goals 
by Rob Katz and Scully. Katz scored the first 
goal, unassisted on a breakaway, and Scully 
scored on a heads-up play by taking the 
puck around the back of the net and stuffing 
it in the side.
On Saturday the Tartans travelled to 
Meadville where they played Slippery' Rock 
State College. Katz led the way with a hat
one by Steve Kruse.
The third period saw two more Tartan 
goals, the first by Katz and the second ^y 
Scully. The game got quite physical sp I 
the end, culminating in a fight for which 
Halloran and a Slippery Rock player were 
both ejected.
CMU lost the shutout just before the end 
of the game on an unfortunate slap shot in 
which goalie Bob Kosakowski w'as screened. 
This left the final score at 6-1.
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want Thats why at Great Expectations you'll lea\^ 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
PRECISION NO PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT APPOINTMENT ALL STYLES
(ANY LENGTH) $25.00
$1240
(WASH-CUT-BLOW'STYLE)
COLOR
Moo. TW, Wed. 1*7 VJ Ammtoo tacci
Tim, Pki 1*9 687-9*0 Aa the mm few
5-** N0 A330IN9scN9k a*f 8u
UNIkcX HAIb kAL0N

---------------------------------------------------

November 8, 1983The TartanPage 15
HField hockey storms to conference title
I SEAN QUINN
talari Staffurriter
.Thats it on CMU football, 
w on to the Tartan field hockey forecast. 
Recent weather has been mostly sunny, a 
5. l conference record for a tie with tropitstorm Bethany - the highest seasonal 
perature in the Penn wood West ConferH|ce and a warm 6-3 record overall. The 
 irtans who rained on the opposition most 
His season were Laura Ciarallo, 5 inches of 
ipitation on opposing goalies; Maria 
lo, 4; Amy Robbins, 3; Mary Ann Sacco,
__rnd Lynn Otto, 1. Even more thunder was
I pected from Kozo, but a mid-season break 
her clouds caused her to float harmlessly 
the sidelines the rest of the season.
Sacco and Otto were named by Chief 
eteorologist Joan Maser as the seasons 
[ost Deadly Hurricanes: Sacco for her 
-illy defense and Otto for her high pressure 
fense that consistandy forced a hail of 
Js upon opposing teams. Other stars 
med by Maser were goalie Sue Klein, who 
jvided a very cold front to so many threating storms, and Peggy Kennefick, who 
td a rough season as a dark cloud that
could not burst, but sdll provided room for 
her fellow clouds to raise hail.
As for the 1984 forecast, the Tartans 
should become a full-fledged monsoon if 
the current weather patterns persist. Maser 
loses only two warm fronts, Kennefick and 
Janet Metzger to evaporation while she 
expects two 1982 lightning bolts to return to 
Tartan skies devastating of the Tartan 
atmospheric conditions, should return to 
her full power. Mix those three with a 
warming Tartan heat wave that has only 
begun working together, and one notices a 
significant rise in the humidity.
As a group, Maser thinks that the one 
years togetherness was extremely valuable 
experience, and will cause lots of sunny 
faces during the next two seasons. Most of 
this years stratosphere was composed of first 
and second-year cumuli. Maser also has flex
ibility because she showered all her Tartans 
with work during the storms and can now 
move them in and out depending on the 
temperature erf the situation. Maser thinks 
that the smaller, inexperienced storms will 
continue growing if they continue to stay 
with the beginning trade winds.
uitar master's lyrics are considered inane
ADAM HANIN
Vrtan Staffwriter
Several days ago, a friend asked me what 
le job of writing record reviews entailed. I 
lid him that you have to know music well, 
[id really have to love it to evaluate perfor^ mers/songs/albums objectively. 
You see, if you enjoy music, 
then listening to an album,
whether it is by a known or an unknown 
group, is almost always a pleasure.
To help people spend their money 
wisely, to let them know whether an album 
is worth their investment or not, is the main 
purpose and goal of the reviewer," I told 
him. Of course, there are some who enjoy 
destroying a performer because he has 
become too commercial or he changes
his style more often than his clothes. These 
people dont seem to realize that a music 
career is just that: a career. The performer is 
in it for money, not just enjoyment. Music is 
a business, and albums are released with 
sights on specific markets. An album which 
doesnt seem to fit any genre, or please anyb
ody, is an album whose goal has failed.
It is with this attitude that I first listened to
Self Portrait by Caspar, a new British per
former just recently discovered. After listen
ing to the first song (supposedly the single 
release from the album) the person listening 
with me (who is a major entertainment law
yer) asked me to skim through the remain
ing songs. After hearing three more songs, 
he requested that I turn it off. Our first 
continued on page 18
1
Women's Health Services.
 FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
OaklandRm. 212, 3520 Forbes Ave.
Downtown3rd floor, 107 6th St.
 ABORTION SERVICES
 BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900
WHS Survival Kit
Name 
Street _
City
College (if student)
. StateJlip
Mail to: WHS. 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222
THE PITTSBURGH 
PSYCHOANALYTIC 
CENTER, INC. 
OFFERS
students, graduate students, faculty, staff and their family 
members, including children, the opportunity for insightoriented psychotherapy on a sliding fee scale. For appoint
ment call:
Mrs. Brown, 661-2300 
Medical Center East Building 
21J North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206
MICROSYSTEMS
m K
COMPARE OUR PRICES ON IBM/PC PRODUCTS
(oSoftware:LISTOUR PRICE
dBASE II$ 700$ 389
1-2-3495325
WORDSTAR495250
VOLKSWRITER19599
SUPERCALC II295169
Printers:
C.ITOH PROWRITER495369
NEC 355 SPINWRITER23951830
GORILLA BANANA250189
Media: (Boxes of 10)
VERBATIM DS/DD6636
VERBATIM SS/DD4927
MAXELL DS/DD7438
MAXELL SS/DD5228
MONTEREY
T-SHIRT
WITH PURCHASES 
OVER $100
CALL FOR 
OUR CURRENT 
PRICE LIST
PLUS:
 Hundreds of other Software Products
 Products for Apple, TRS-80, Commodore, Atari
 Boards, Monitors
 Microcomputer Books & Accessories
ROSYSTEMS
P O. Box 2669 
Pittsburgh, PA 15 
(412) 456-7478

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanNovember 8, 1983
PAC Football Report
INDIVIDUAL LEADERS
Passing
D. Zito, CMU 
C. Brodman, Alleg. 
F. DiSanto, CRU 
J. Miale, Thiel 
M. John, WirJ
Receiving NO YD AV 1
Andy Houpt, Thiel 48 429 8.9 0
I om Collins, Hiram 28 299 10.7 2
Neal Noia, Beth. 25 341 13.6 0
Mark Warburton, H 25 312 12.5 1
Greg Corsica, Hiram 24 395 16.4 1
Punting
Kevin Baird, Allegheny 
Dave Strinisa, Bethany 
Jim Raioth, Case Western 
Mike OShip, CMU 
Jim Miale, Thiel
Camegie-Mellon Statistics
AT YD AV YD/G TDRushing
Jim Morrison 
Joe Vasalani 
Vic Boland 
David Zito 
Brad Huwar 
Mike Garverick 
Gerard Sansosti 
Mike Hensel 
T.D. Smith 
Joe Mollka 
Mike OShip 
Jim Scarpone 
Nick Klipa
. MOWARO _JownsonS
WHERE DO YOU SEND VISITORS?
Howard Johnsons Motor Lodge 
in Oakland 
"WeVe Changed 
SEEING IS BELIEVING!
STOP IN AND VISIT OR CALL 
WED LOVE TO SHOW YOU AROUND
683-6100
3401 Blvd. of Allies Pittsburgh 15213
bcg0bD
RECYCLER
421-2835
Top Dollar Paid For
RECORDS
Bought/Sold/Traded
(We Buy Collections)
We also carry a selection of imports, jazz, and 
wave LPs, and Blank Tape
5824 Forbes Avenue 
(downstairs)
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
sUkIgHERg^NOW
J0HNHAbBB0N8irmi56u-n7-u65no6786Wed., Nov. 16,8 PM  Fulton Theater MICHAEL LANKESIER 8i7o18tiu
J0HN LcNN0N: s6tamn8t1u65 (fiudo mu6rn6u6 if u6vn56o v6u5ni7)
J0kc3H kgHWAN9Ncb: ga7tn8d6 if te6 cv67n74 B6o5-B6u7auo Gidob6u4, fd1tn5t cLLI099 gAb9cb: 9e6 sn7ita1u (badd6t 51nt6)
9n8$6t5: $5; $3p50 5t1o67t5 & 567niu 8ntnz675p Avandabd6 at H6n7z Hao con 0ffn86 a7o at F1tti7 9e6at6u 6v67n74 if m6ufiura786 iu gaH 9n8$6t geau46: 392-4900p
RushingATYDAVTDYD/G
Jim Donnelly, CRU2038144.0690.4
Brad Gintwell, JCU2108023.8689.1
Glenn Simon, Beth,1375644.1280.5
Jim Morrison, CMU1325744.3163.8
Ed Taylor, Alleg.834365.2154.5
Joe Vasalani, CMU1034474.31349.7
PACWLTPFPA
CMU700 210 37
Case Reserve610 162 88
John Carroll430 71 98
Wash. & Jeff.331 82 82
Bethany340 71 80
Hiram241 84 116
Allegheny250 72 136
Thiel070 58 173
OverallW LTPF PA
CMU900 248 48
Case Reserve810 209 107
Bethany440 88 87
John Carroll450 92 157
Wash. & Jeff.351 85 144
Allegheny350 114 156
Hiram251 106 142
Thiel090 75 215
Team DefenseRPTOAV
Bethany10007131713214.1
CMU78013012081231.2
Hiram102510022027253.8
Wash. & Jeff.119411232317257.4
John Carroll129912302521280.1
Case Reserve123813402578286.4
Thiel175211352887320.8
Allegheny18328292661332.6
Team OffenseRPTOAV
CMU23258293154350.4
Case Reserve171912802999333.2
Hiram102414382462307.8
Allegheny11479542101262.6
John Carroll13108562166240.7
Bethany9419481899236.1
Thiel58314902073230.3
Wash. & Jeff.11238301953217.01325754.463.81
1034544.450.413
692774.030.82
552023.722.43
471944.121.62
471894.021.00
44TI1743.921.81
19393.031.01
14876.21Z40
28562.07.06
23316.53.70
133.03.00
1-3.0-3.00
wBmUm% fa?, 'y //.
PAC
C YD INT TD
27 582 4 4
16 247 4 1
0 0  0
NO YD AV
12 275 22.9
11 234 21.3
7 70 10.0
3 43 14.3
2 74 37.0
2 23 11.5
1 34 34.0
1 24 24.0
1 14 14.0
1 6 6.0
TDXPFG
14*00
024/304/4
600
300
200
200
200
200
110
100
100
100
record)
%
55.1
42.1 
0.0
TD
2 *
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
% 
PT> 
84* * 
37 
36 
18 
12 
12 
12 
12 
8 
6 
6 ' ' 
6*
Punting
Mike OShip
Team Scoring
CMU
OPPONENTS
1234 TOT.
60604583248
323111148
CMUOPP ,**
12449
3162 *
126 
167117
543329 n
2234780 \
294
88-44-9 226-120-17
51
30632091
4.93.8 h
52/39860/474 *
19/1219/10
9-00-9 * 
EVERYONE DOES IT!
Now, Have A Place to Keep Them.
FREE CATALOGUE  Send a Self Addressed Stamped Envelope.
Passing
David Zito 
Joe Mollica 
Nick Klipa
Receiving
Dave Richards 
Roger Roble 
Jim Morrison 
Harley Carroll 
Joe Vasalani 
Brad Huwar 
John Wise 
Tom Thompson 
Vic Boland 
T.D. Smith
Scoring
Joe Vasalani 
Rob Fleischman 
Joe Mollica 
David Zito 
Vic Boland 
Jim Morrison 
Brad Huwar 
Dave Richards 
Roger Roble 
Gerard Sansosti 
Andy James 
Mike Hensel
(* - denotes
Team Statistics
Rushing First Downs 
Passing First Downs 
Penalty First Downs 
Total First Downs 
Rushing Attempts 
Net Yards Rushing 
Rushing TD 
Passing (A-C-I) 
Passing TD 
Totals Yards 
Average Play 
Penalties/Yards 
Fumbles/Lost 
Record
Elegant Cloth, 
with draw cord, 
Historical Perspective 
and more.
Send $3.95 ea 
and your printed 
name & address 
for use as a label. 
To: QUIBBLEDICKER 
P.O. Box 7651 
Pittsburgh, PA 15214

---------------------------------------------------

November 8. 1983The TartanPage 17
lach comments on future
occer earns rare possibility for playoffs
nued from page 13
years. That shows the job the coach 
done bringing in new players. 
far as next year is concerned, things 
ler looked better for CMU soccer. LockIci is really confident about next year, as is 
yone involved with the squad. The Tar, will lose only one player to graduation, 
being Scott Ritter. Coach Gaudioso
hopes to fill the large gap left by Ritter with 
either a new recruit or one of this years 
freshmen.
Next year we wll beat the teams we 
didnt beat this year, vowed Gaudioso. 
This should be one of our best recruiting 
years ever, which will help also. Anderer 
feels that we no longer have a reputation as 
a loser. Now when teams come in they wont
be cocky about playing CMU. He went so 
far as to say theres no way we shouldnt go 
to the playoffs next year.
During the off season the unit plays 
indoor soccer, which helps ball control and 
fundamentals, according to Gaudioso. 
Indoor soccer helps, because you have to 
learn to work with the ball more since its a 
smaller playing area, noted Anderer.
The combination of maturing freshmen 
returning players, and offseason play 
should make for a banner season next year. 
As Anderson put it, CMU soccer has finally 
gained recognidon as a top team.
Note: At press time it was unknown 
whether or not the team was invited to the 
NCAA playoffs.
itramurals proclaim new golf champion and rules clinic is held
eff Kenausis is the singles intramural
|f champion.
jow that everyone has calmed down 
that bit of excitement, lets move on to 
|er I.M. news. Bowling, water polo, 
fcer, racquetball, team volleyball, and 
table tennis are all in season. For those 
rested, schedules can be picked up in the 
i, on the bulletin board.
pports that will be getting underway soon
are three-person volleyball, darts and back
gammon. Three-person volleyball will have
a mandatory rules clinic Tuesday, Nov. 15, 
at 4:30 in Thistle Hall. Finally, the next I.M.
board meeting is Thursday, Nov. 17, at 12:30 
in gym room 104.
Levine's "Gag" showstopper of SNS plays
continued from page 9
playwright could give. The play itself 
showed a remarkable amount of potendal, 
and much of that potendal was realized in 
the performance.
The night of one-acts was generally great
fun. Both older plays were presented compe
tently, with credit due to the directors as well 
as the casts. Gag was the star of the night, 
and Levine demonstrated his talent as both 
performer and playwright. Scotch n Soda 
has continued in its tradidon of providingports tnat win De getung unaerway soon a ne mgnt oi one-acts was generally great offfffrf m iu> udumun ui pi
Ballet "La Mer" brings the ocean to its audience
Htinued from page 12
ballet master at PBT, the ballet included 
Jovely paux de trois for one male, two 
nales, which delighted the audience with 
flirtatious patterns.
Following Divertissement DAdam 
was the popular profile of the seas myste
rious existence, La Mer. Debussys gentle 
phrasing and instrumentation was beauti
fully complemented by the precision and 
delicacy of the dancers. The stage became
'obs seminar for women
Women interested in returning to the pro
fessional workforce are invited to attend a 
ting at Job Advisory Service, 300 South 
tig Street, on Wednesday, November 9, 
fm 10-12 noon. This is a free orientation to 
Second Career Internships, an exciting 
new program designed to make re-entry 
itmen competitive again in todays tough 
w market. The program provides an inten
se career development seminar after which 
ijj^men undertake a part-time professional 
irel internship for five months, 
internship sponsors range from Pittsb|rghs largest corporations to small businlsses and non-profit institutions.
Internships are available in many fields 
including: public relations, merchandising, 
training, fund development, administration 
and management, sales, personnel and 
marketing.
For information about the Second Career 
Internships program, and to make reserva
tions for the free orientation session, call Job 
Advisory Service, 621-0940.
the ocean and the lighting was equally ful
filling; the audience was completely trans
fixed by the horizontal swaying of dancers 
bodies and outbursts of emotional power.
The show closed with an agressive collage 
of Berlioz overtures, Beatrice and Bene
dict, Le Corsair, and Roman Carni
val. A well-chosen release from the 
intensity of La Mer, this ballet encom
passed the entire company and served well 
as the shows finale.
Tickets for the PBTs December perfor
mances of The Nutcracker by Tchai
kovsky are now on sale. Call 281-0360 to 
reserve your ticket.
entertaining amateur theater at CMU, and 
will hopefully keep up this level of quality 
in the future.
LkA9 muivno65 
t65tn74 56uvn86
continued from page 7
analysis of their test results.
Information on Five Law Schools that stu
dents designate on The Law Package data 
form.
The Admissions Process: a Guide, a booklet 
that describe major factors that law schools 
consider in reviewing applications; finan
cial aid information; and additional sources 
of information relative to legal education 
and the admission process.
Students who desire more information 
can request The Law Package Brochure 
by writing to: Law School Admission Servi
ces, Box 500, Newtown, PA 18940.
abortion counseling servi<v uilh warmth and dignity Imm peopleit'ho care
rpmensCenter
Allegheny 
Womens Center
an out patient 
medical clinic offering
 dbor on free pregnancy tests personjl counseling birth control services Kyneiologitdl cjre Mornin Alter Iredtinent
362-2920
Mtdkil Center fot Building Pfnlhouw Right (Mh floor) 211 North Whitfield Street Pittsburgh, PA 1S2M
allegheny
reproductive
health
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107.
kALc
School Boys 
and
Other Selected 
Frames
$40.00 COMPLETE 
e56 to plus or minus 6.00) 
OFFER VALID TO 11 /30
SPECTACLES,ox
uSPECTACLES,)ft !
621-4949 
3529 Forbes Ave. 
Oakland
yourwTnu 
o ognpsoii 
tToT:pnws 
solehpoi
Camegie-Mellon University 
presents the 
1983 Benjamin F. Fairless Lecture
"America in the Passing Lane: 
Moving U.S. Industry Toward the 
21st Century."
delivered by Robert E. Kirby
Chief executive officer, Westinghouse Electric Corp.
Tuesday, November 15, 1983 
5:30 p.m., Skibo Ballroom
Admission is free 
Tickets are available in the 
Public Relations Office 
5017 Forbes Avenue
SPECTACLES,B,'

---------------------------------------------------

I
Page 18The TartanNovember 8, 1983
Writer reviews critics and Self Portrait
continued from page 15
impressions agreed that the record had 
failed its purpose.
Perhaps the main disadvantage to being a 
reviewer is that one must listen to the enure 
album, and always give it a shadow of a 
doubt. Such was the case with Self Portrait. I 
forced myself to listen to the whole album, 
much as I would have liked to simply throw 
it away. Although I listened for saving gra
ces, I could find only one: guitar work. Cas
par is a guitar master who could (but 
probably will never) be among the likes of
Eddie Van Halen or Jimmy Page.
However, his guitar riffs are few and far 
apart, and although heavy in nature, do not 
fit with the rest of the album which is very 
light, electronic, and hopelessly bouncy and 
childish.
Consider, for example, his song 
Mechanical Friend. The song reminds 
one (both in melody and in sound) of a 
merry-go-round. The lyrics make one 
wonder what kind of a person Caspar is, and 
if his only motive in song writing is to 
rhyme. Almost anybody could write lyrics
more substantial than:
Mechanical Friend,
Mechanical Friend,
How will I get to you 
In the end?
Unless Caspar is three years old (which he is 
not), there is no excuse for lyrics as unexcit
ing and unimaginative as these. Other 
wonderful moments on the album 
include the chorus of Secret Rendezvous, 
in which Caspar splits rendezvous into two 
words; it presents a very poor sounding 
verse.
Besides Caspars lyrical disabilities, hi I 
vocals also are very much under par. Caspi 
doesnt know how to carry a tune, nor is ] 
voice a pleasant one. Instead, we are
treated to a whining, monotonous drone
Why Caspar was ever signed by a record 
company, one can only speculate. Why Self 
Portrait was ever released, one can only 
wonder. Self Portrait hasnt hit its mark 
because it doesnt have a mark. It is, without 
any doubt, a dreadful album, and therefore 
is not suitable for anyones collection. Self 
Portrait is a waste of precious vinyl.
Try to know CMU rugby
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Staffwriter
How many people do you know who 
would like to get up on a cold Saturday 
morning, put on a pair of shorts and go 
outside and be kicked, hit and otherwise 
physically abused by 15 other players on a 
muddy field? Well, if you know any one of 
the 40 or 50 rugby players here at CMU, you 
know someone who fits that description.
For those of you who have never seen a 
rugby game played, its a totally different 
experience. Its more physical than football, 
faster moving than soccer, and requires as 
much strategy' as a game of chess.
It is played on a field similar to a football 
field with goal posts and an end zone. To 
score you must place the ball down on the 
ground in the end zone. This is called a try 
and is worth four points. For the conversion, 
you must kick the ball through the goal 
posts from any point on the field parallel to 
where you placed the ball down on the 
try. This conversion is worth two points.
There are many different rules of the 
game. For example, no one on the offensive 
team may be in front of the player with the 
ball at any time. The only way to advance the
ball is to run with it, kick it forward or lateiai 
the ball to a teammate.
This brief description obviously does no 
cover all aspects of the game. To really 
understand the game of rugby you must see it 
it.
You can see the CMU nigby team practi 
on Flagstaff Hill on Tuesdays and Fridaysat 
4:30. The team doesnt have any hoi? 
games remaining this season, but a new 
son begins next semester.
This is only the second year of rugby ail 
CMU, but coach Howard Engelberg is quitel 
pleased with the way things are progressing! 
so far.
When I got here [at the beginning of this' 
year] things werent very organized, but 
now they are. This year were beating smaller 
schools and losing to tough teams, but in a 
couple of years well be undefeated here 
Right now the B team [younger players|| 
undefeated.
The A team has only a 2-5 record, but ha 
played teams like Penn State, WVU, and; 
very tough, experienced California Statt 
team. Rugby is still very young at CMU, kj 
given time it could be the next team to bn%j 
national recognition to CMU.
SPRING SEMESTER 1984 REGISTRATION
Registration for the Spring Semester 1984 has been scheduled for November 16 and 17,1983. Freshmen in CIT and MCS will 
receive separate registration instructions from Dean Kail and will not register at this time. AU other students, graduate and 
undergraduate, are expected to register at this time if they wish to be on the rolls for the Spring Semester. If you will not be returning 
for reasons other than graduation, please file a Withdrawal Form (clearly marked for Spring 1984) with your department. If you 
are studying off campus, or for some other reason cannot register on November 16 or 17, ask your advisor to process a registration for 
you or call the Registrar's Office for special instructions.
The Class Schedule Booklet will be available after November 4, inside the main entrance to Baker Hall and the Information Desk 
at Skibo. The Class Schedule contains a list of the courses which will be offered next semester, the schedule and classrooms for each, 
the instructor's name, and complete instructions for registration. Please obtain one and carefully read and follow the instructions 
contained in it.
A single registration form called the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D) will be used for registration. It will 
provide and additional opportunity for you to review and update the demographic information on file for you and provide a form on 
which to list and have approved your program for the coming semester.
1.Pick-up your R3D Form from your department and correct the demographic information. (Forms 
for H&SS freshmen and sophomores will be available in the H&SS Advisory Center).
2.Meet with your advisor and have a schedule with alternatives approved.
3.Between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on November 16 or 17 go to each department teaching the courses 
in which you wish to register to obtain registration approval.
4vAfter obtaining all approvals, return the R3D Form to your department. You keep the last (yellow) 
copy.
If you need further information or assistance, please call the Office of the Registrar, 578-2004.

---------------------------------------------------

A77i1786r67t5p
da55nfn6o5
t^gs OVERSEAS M/F (Including Australia, 
iuth Pacific, Europe, Africa, Alaska, Cruise 
Ships, Airlines). All Occupations. .Temporary 
Ud Full Time. $20,000 to $60,000. Call Now! 
",736-5103 Ext. 145.
lesumes - Does your resume Sell You to poten
tial employers? We professionally prepare 
suines designed to get results. Packages availaje __ resume, cover letter, copies, regular updat
ing. $20'75- 941'8598
Pyping/Word Processing  Reasonable and 
ofessional. Fast, efficient, excellent results, 
fieses, dissertations, RESUMES. We strictly fol
low any format required. Confidential. Results 
aranteed. Private word processing classes. 
ily a few minutes from campus. Free disk stor
age. Phone: 836-4923. Answers 24 hours.
)akland overlooking Schenley Park. Studio $225 
electric, 1-bedroom $245 + electric. Includes 
itercom, laundry facilities, free parking, carpet. 
/alk to universities and hospitals. 621-2655.
[idiael Kelly Blanchard Concert: The Shadyiide College Fellowship is sponsoring Michael 
telly Blanchard in concert in the Skibo Ballroom 
>n Saturday, Nov. 19 at 8 p.m. Blanchard is a 
Tolk/jazz guitarist and pianist. Tickets are availafor $2.50 at the Skibo Information Desk or $3 
It the door.
bementary School Teacher, Pennsylvania certi|ed, will tutor grades K-6. Please call 441-4124.
/anted: Grad student to share 3-bedroom town[ouse with two CMU grad students. Costs: 
sal 50/month and share utilities. Share housekeep
ing responsibilities. Benefits: Large, charming 
r gdready furnished) house, walk to CMU, close to 
[lopping and bus. Call Linda at 521-1909.
e Jielp Wanted: Part-time position available for 
^lollege student to represent travel company on 
tmpus, Earn commission, free travel and work 
cperience. Contact Beachcomber Tours, Inc., 
(325 Millersport Highway, Williamsville, NY 
4221, (716) 632-3723.
wonors Wanted for artificial insemination protam. Healthy white males, under 35. Fee paid, 
for information call 687-1300 Monday-Friday, 
-3 p.m. only.
a___________________________________
For Sale: 14K gold neck chain, 18 inches; wide 
herringbone. Call Jon at 521-5091.
Moving, Moving, Moving! Have been moving 
students since 1977. Call Second Mile Light 
Hauling ask for Vince 231-2766.
Walk to university PRICES CUT! Studios 
1-bedrooms. High rise  elevator. All utilities 
included in rent. Studio - $268, 1-bedroom - $364. 
361-5792.
Professional typing: reasonable rates, quick tur
naround, pickup and delivery. Shirley 672-0683.
Oakland - walk to campus. Rents now reduced! 
Comfortable apartments with a/c, carpet, good 
security, next to bus line. 1-bedroom $269 + elect
ric, 2-bedroom $299 + electric. 361-5792.
Will type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
Flying Fingers word processing. Business or aca
demic. Papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Student 
rates available. Erika Van Sickel 241-1338.
Dianes Secretarial Service. Resumes, academic, 
business, and personal typing. Pick up and deliv
ery available. 464-1618.
Women: are you an Academic Bag Lady? Over 
25, in school, new career? Meet over lunch 12-1 
Thursdays, Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes. 682-6886.
Sales People Needed High commissions. Work 
your own hours. Must furnish own car. Growth 
opportunity. 462-5524.
TYPING jobs sought Last minute assignments 
accepted. Editing available. Use latest model 
IBM equipment. Fees negotiable. ELLEN: 422- 
0955.
Hempfield Recording. Eight track studio includ
ing state of the art digital signal processing 
equipment creates excellent opportunity at reaso
nable fees. Musicians/music students. 864-0786.
Jacquelines Secretarial Services - Dissertations, 
manuscripts, books. Professional work done 
quickly and accurately. $ 1/page 372-1376.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the U. 
S. Government5 Get the facts today! Call (312) 
742-1142 Ext. 3401-A.
LOST  SKI GLOVES off-white, five fingers, 
by Hoffingers. Misplaced on Friday Nov. 4 in 
either WeH 5419 or Porter 20 @ about 2:00 p.m. 
If found please return to Morris Housen, 422- 
0731. REWARD.
4676uad
Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs John 
P. Crecine will have open office hours for stu
dents between 3 and 5 p.m. in his office, 610 
Warner Hall, on Wednesday, November 23,1983. 
Students who wish to meet with Dr. Crecine 
should telephone his office, 578-2056, to set up an 
appointment.
You are invited to an Informal Bible Discussion 
group that meets on Monday nights at 9, in 
Room 39, Skibo. We are a nondenominational 
group. We look at subjects and situations that 
affect campus life, directly from the Bible. Stop 
by, and feel free to bring a friend with you. If you 
want more information, call either (441-0819) or 
(361-5632), and ask for John.
University of Pittsburgh Department of Music
presents a free concert of Music For Two Gui
tars, Sunday, November 13, 4 p.m. at the Frick 
Fine Arts Auditorium. James Ferla, a guitar 
instructor at Pitt, and Timothy Buell, a graduate 
student in composition, will perform music from 
the rarely heard duo guitar repetoire. Encompass
ing the music of four centuries, the program will 
include works by Nathaniel Diesel, Ferdinand 
Carulli, Manuel DeFalla, and Guido Santorsola.
Attention CMU communtity: it is time for buggy' 
once again. Fall freerolls will be held from 6 a.m. 
to 9 a.m. on November 13. As in previous years, 
they will run through Schenley Park on Tech 
and Frew Streets. For further information call 
x2107.
The photographs of Mr. David Kelly will be 
exhibited in the gallery at Pittsburgh FilmMakers, 205 Oakland Avenue from November 7 
through November 30. The hours of the gallery 
are Monday through Friday 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. and 
Saturday 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. and before film screen
ings, 7:30 to 8 p.m.
This program is funded in part by the National 
Endowment for the Arts, the Pittsburgh Founda
tion, and the Howard Heinz Endowment.
For more information call 681-5449.
CMU Computer Club will sponsor a free 
SCRIBE workshop on Wednesday, November 9 
in Gregg Hall at 7:30.
RESPECT LIFE EDUCATION SEMINARS
Paul Francis, member of the PCUC Education 
Comm., Vice-President of the Pittsburgh Federa
tion of Teachers (AFL-CIO), and a founder of 
Educators for Human Life will present a 3-part 
series on Speaking Up for the Right to Life on 
Thursday evenings from 7-8:30 in Doherty Hall 
1212. Contact Andy Sicree at 621-2911 for more 
info. Registration is free. Sponsored by the CMU 
Association for Life. This series deals with ans
wering the hard questions about the pro-life 
movement and dealing with confrontations in a 
loving manner.
The Old Allegheny Festival Choir, under the 
direction of Paul Weber, will sing music dedi
cated to St. Nicholas at St. Nicholas Church, 1326 
East Ohio St., Northside, on Sunday, Dec. 4, at 3 
p.m.
In addition to the choral works, the program will 
feature a short talk on the significant features of 
architect Fredrick Sauers St. Nicholas Church, 
which was recognized by the Pittsburgh History 
and Landmarks Foundation in 1976 as an his
toric and cultural landmark. The church was the 
first Croatian Roman Catholic parish in 
America.
Admission for the Dec. 4 concert is $5. For infor
mation call 561-5343.
AIESEC, the International Association of Stu
dents in Economics and Business Management, 
will hold its weekly meeting, Wednesday at 4:30 
in Room 11, Skibo. Students of all majors are 
invited to participate in AIESECs international 
exchange and management development 
programs.
Tuesday Night Reading Series at 8:30 o.m. The 
Back Room of Hemingways (formerly Gustines) on 3911 Forbes Avenue.  Featuring: Nov. 8  Ellen Smith (poetry), Margery
Gulbransen (fiction); Nov. 15  James Gyure 
(poetry), Hilary Masters (CMU) (fiction); Nov. 22 
 Presentational Reading; Nov. 29  Don 
Petesch (poetry), Natalie Petesch (fiction).
The CMU Investment Group meets every Thurs
day at 6:30 in Skibo room 11. All interested peo
ple are welcome.
|J0c FbckHsANb2 sAbK LcVINc
And you didn't mmmn to bo?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Bnuteun4et at 62 -988
Sales People Heeded 
High Commissions 
Work your own boors 
Most famish own or 
Growth Opportunity 
462-5624
I
ANDREWS
of !h. ANDREWS SISTERS
w/ GEORGE GEE *- 
MAKE-BELIEVE BALLROOM ORCHESTRA
%
The Sheraton 
Station Square 
eunday 
nov. 13 1983 
CONCERT
DANCE
8
3kYgH09HcbA3Y
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center, Inc is offering combined individual psycho
therapy with small group psychotherapy for young adults (18-23). Sliding scale 
fee. All contacts are confidential. Initial interviews are in progress.
For Appointment Call:
Mrs. Ernestine Brown 
661-2300
pm
ticket
\
tickete available
UufBkt* 
Opu On*Club A no my m 
Souvenir a\noue VI
door 
*11 tdTtnct
oon to b
< MAKE-BELIEVE 
BALLROOM ORCHESTRASt
flrat I bum

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanNovember 8, 1983
All students and faculty in CIT are invited to 
attend the first CIT happy hour in the Skibo 
ballroom on Friday November 11, at 4:30 p.m. 
This event is being sponsored by Tau Beta Pi 
Engineering Honorary' Society and the profes
sional societies of each department. We hope to 
see you there.
Peace Starts With Us  Learn Against Arms. A
teach-in week of talks and films on the arms race, 
Nov. 5-11.
Film: The Last Epidemic The medical effects of 
nuclear war. Along with a speaker from Physic 
dans for Social Responsibility. Doherty 2315, 
Thur., Nov. 10, 5 p.m.
Arms Reduction Proposals. Skibo 12, Tues., 
Nov. 8, Noon
Practical and Ethical Issues of Working in the 
Defense Industry. Skibo 45, Wed., Nov. 9, Noon 
Religious Perspectives on Nuclear Arms. The 
Catholic Bishops statement, as well as other reli
gious viewpoints. Skibo 45, Wed., Nov. 9,5 p.m. 
Economic Consequences of the Arms Race. 
Skibo 12, Thur., Nov. 10, Noon 
What You Can Do For Peace. Getting involved. 
Skibo 45, Fri., Nov. 11, Noon 
Information and literature tables wil be in Skibo 
on Monday, Nov. 7, and in other campus loca
tions throughout the week. Organized by the 
CMU Peace Alliance - our next regular meeting 
will be Wed., Nov. 16, at 5 p.m. in Skibo 12. 
LA TABLE FRANAISE, Tuesdays. French 
Language Table, noon. Morewood Dining 
Room. Students, Faculty, Staff welcome. Spon
sored by European Studies and Modem Lan
guage Programs.
Meeting for all Biology majors to plan Christmas 
party. Wednesday, November 9, 7 p.m. in Skibo, 
Rm. 11.
Tech House, the Catholic Coop on campus, has 
openings for next semester. For more informarion call x8618 and ask for Lisa or stop by 5125 
Margaret Morrison Street before November 14.
The Pittsburgh Association for the Arts in Educa
tion and Therapy invites you to attend their first 
general membership program entitled Theater 
Games, presented by Frail Fettman on Thurs
day, November 17 at 7:30 p.m. at the Zionist 
Youth Commission, 6328 Forbes Avenue near 
Shady in Squirrel Hill. Ms. Fettman is a doctoral 
candidate in Educational Psychology at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh. If you have any questions 
about the program or PAAET, please call 824- 
9835.
Poetry Contest A $1,000 grand prize will be 
offered in a poetry contest sponsored by the 
World of Poetry' newsletter. There are an addi
tional 99 prizes worth over $10,000. For a free 
brochure of rules and prizes write, World of Poe
try, 2431 Stockton Blvd., Dept. P, Sacramento, 
California 95817.
DEUTSCHER STAMMTISCH, Thursdays, 
German Language Table, noon. Morewood 
Dining Room. Students, Faculty, Staff welcome. 
Sponsored by European Studies and Modem 
Language Programs.
The office of Professor Fougeres has been moved 
to BH 228D. The students who take Self-Paced 
French, 82-103, will meet now in Margaret Morri
son 408 instead of in Baker Hall 232F, which is in 
the process of getting demolished and then 
rebuilt for other purposes. Every once in a while 
please also look at the BBOARD 82-103, where 
you may find various kinds of announcements, 
warnings, ups, etc., relating to the course 82-103.
Anyone that wishes to see Japanese offered at 
CMU and is interested in taking the course 
should sign the petition on the Student Senate 
office door, Skibo 59.
Fred Rogers, vice president for business affairs,
will be having open office hours on Friday, 
November 18 between 3 and 5 p.m., in his office, 
613 W7amer Hall. Students who wish to meet 
with Mr. Rogers should telephone his office, 578- 
2991, to set up an appointment.
Final Soccer stats
PAC
Bethany 
Case Western 
John Carroll 
Allegheny 
CMU 
Hiram 
W& J
Leading Scorers
Sandy Mick,B 
Jeff Rights, CWRU 
Ted Anderer, CMU 
Mike Ault, B 
Ted Skattum, A 
Steve Payne, JCU 
Stan Shulman, CWRU 
Dag Skattum, A 
Charlie Lockhead, CMU 
Rick Kramer, JCU 
Phil Cerminaro, B 
Neal Frink, CMU 
Doug Anderson, CMU 
John McNamare, CMU 
Henry Fabian, CWRU 
Owen Ranta, CMU 
Brian Butcher, A 
Bob Bek, B 
Paul McGuckin, B 
Harold Fortis, B 
Dave Pratt, JCU 
Caleb Corkery, CMU
PAC SCX)RES
Bethany 5 W & J
Case Western 1 Bethany
John Carroll 2 CMU
Hiram 1 Allegheny
Goal tenders
Bob Campbell, B 
Tony Sezezsiul, JCU 
Pete Klapper, A 
Sam Montague, CMU 
Andy Orosz, CWRU 
Frank Daniels, CWRU
Overall
Bethany
CMU
John Carroll 
Allegheny 
Case Western 
W& J 
Hiram
Lowest Prices In Pgh 
Quality Guaranteed 
Convenient Location 
Largest Selection of International 
Foods between NY and Chicago 
Friendly Service
Cnw BookSTORE is 
qiviNq AWAy gi-n MslUwFREE! LCD Watch Pen with purchase of $20.00 or more. 
Grocery items only One Coupon Per Customer.
I Offer expires November 24, 1983.
Customer must present this coupon
1st Floor
International Foods from Asia  Africa  Latin Amer
ica  India. Housewares China  Kitchenware 
Utensils  Gifts
2nd FLOOR
TV, Radio, Stereo, Cassette, All video. Microwaves,and <^imnnl>niu
appliances.
_  Umiled offer See storeEast Busway Station _
// / I'll 15BUHPI
*// / ASIAN CMffil
//. nr--------7 ~.... ,
*1 Rebate Offer
No* you can buy tia baat and gat
Free Street parking Sat & 
Sun
Or Try the new East Bus
way Express 
From 5th Ave. 
67C/67U/71C 
Wilkinsburg Station is 
just one block from Pgh. 
Asian Center
A Lucky PENNy wrrh 
yoiiR cNanqe Wins a 
CasN Prze
Were open 7 Days a Week 
10 AM til 6 PM
emu bcokstcre
IN BAKER HALL
Sampo
Sony(418 7518810
Panasonic
RCA
CAU S7S-MS1CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCESKIBO 40A
