VOL. 49No.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Tech Greeks Prepare 
For Sing And Swing
One of the most enjoyable competitions between the Greeks on 
campus is Greek Sing and Swing. Friday night at 8:00 p.m. in 
Carnegie Music Hall, Techs nineteen fraternities and sororities will 
put forth their best in the annual Greek Sing competition. The songs 
range from spirituals to Rogers^ 
and Hartgood listening for all.
The fraternities will be judged 
separately from the sororities by 
Jihree qualified judges whose 
names will be announced later.
Greek Swing on Saturday night 
will get the downbeat from band
master Tommy Carlyn. The crowd 
can look for some good intermis
sion entertainment from Tommy 
and his orchestra. At 11:00 Bill 
McDonald and Eileen Landay, Sing 
co-chairmen, will announce the 
Winners of Greek Sing.
Swing Semi-Formal 
J? The daftce will be semi-formal, 
held in the Syria Mosque ballroom 
from 8:30 to 12:30. Decorations are 
being handled by John Kestner, 
Tom Reily, Susie Groves, Bob Lar
son, and Michael Pollock.
In Fridays program each group 
will be led by a student conduc
tor. The songs and the names of 
the conductors are as follows: 
Program
Beta Theta Pi ..........................
0 .... James DeBlasisConductor 
Rock A My Soul 
No Man is an Island
Delta Delta Delta.....................
... Marilyn MitchellConductor 
Go, Song of Mine 
Didnt Ma Lawd Deliver 
Daniel?
Theta Xi...................................
....Buri SauvageotConductor 
Theta Xi Hymn 
Brown October Ale
JCau Delta Phi.........................
..Allan ZuckerwarConductor 
A Song You Live to Hear 
(Two Parts)
Kappa Alpha Theta..................
.........Clare LawlerConductor
Dutch Dolls
Christopher Robin Is Saying 
His Prayers
Pi Kappa Alpha........................[Continued on page 8]
^Scotch And Soda 
Picks Forty-Nine 
For 1956 Cast
Last Wednesday, Scotch n Soda 
announced the cast for this years 
production, Head Over Heels. 
A meeting of the cast was held 
last Sunday afternoon in More*wood Gardens, and costume meas
urements* were taken. The first 
rehearsal was scheduled for Mon
day, March 5.
Those people chosen for this 
years production are: Barbara
Kerr, Marlene Daehnert, Reginald 
Bethel, Jack Wabrick, James Edelson, A1 Gorelick, Dick Rose, Florinda Pepe, Plummy Moore, Fran 
Jungk, Jerl Jackson, Ruth James, 
Anne Kammer, Suzie Ramsey, 
Margie Steiner, B. J. Whitmyre, 
^ileen Landay, Jim Komer, Ron 
Barron, Ron Fritts, Jean Smith, 
Bob Hamilton, Nan C. Parlette, 
Barbara Schultz, Betsy Suesserott, 
Joanne Feldman, Gerry Gross, 
Mary MacDonald, Nancy Medis, 
Sue Hafer, Sandi Ruben, Ron 
Reich, Shirley Everson, Mary Lou 
Jacob, Jo Todes, Shirley Mendonca, Ralph Downey, Bob Prothero, Francis Luzzatto, Doris Northrup, Beverly Salvatore, Denise 
-Jpetsie, Pat Marx, Rita Menke, 
Anne Antrim, Sue Ketcham, Betty 
Schwarta, Bill Longyear and Mike 
Barna,
Tommy Carlyn
Greek Swing Bandleader
Dr&ft Exam
Those students who . are 
subject to the draft, and desire 
to continue in school next 
year, should arrange to take 
the next Selective Service Col
lege Qualification Test, if they 
have not previously taken this 
test. The score on the Selec
tive Service test is used as one 
of the bases for considering 
deferment requests. An appli
cation, mailing envelope, and 
a bulletin of information may 
be obtained from any Selective 
Service Local Board.
Applications dated after 
March 5 will not be accepted.
Diplomas
March 1 is the deadline for 
returning cards giving the 
Registrars Office information 
as to how they wish their 
names engrossed on diplomas. 
This applies to all candidates 
for the bachelor, master and 
doctorate degrees at the June 
Commencement.
The $10.00 graduation fee is 
payable by April 1.
CFP Discusses 
Greek Week And 
Sing And Swing
The regular bi-weekly meeting 
of CFP was held Monday, Febru
ary 20, at the Beta Theta Pi house.
The Greek Week committee sug
gested that the conference week 
be held at the beginning of the 
next school year. Greek Week 
questionnaii-es were passed out to 
be completed and returned. The 
last Greek Week, some of the old
er fraternity meij may recall, was 
held two years ago.
Plans for Greek Sing and Swing 
weekend, March 2 and 3, were 
completed. Seating charts for sing
ing groups were distributed. Greek 
Swing, as usual, will be semiformal, much to the remorse of 
those who pay $7.00 to rent a tux
edo just to stand on the stage and 
sing for seven minutes.
The controversial, or at least 
confusing, fraternity dormitory 
rental plan was approved as 
amended to exclude Theta Xi and 
Kappa Sigma, who own their own 
houses. Under this plan the school 
will determine how much each 
fraternity is to contribute toward 
its new house, but the manner in 
which the money is to be collected 
will be determined by the individ
ual clubs. The CFP approved plan, 
however, is still subject to rati
fication by the administration.
Leaders Conference Considers 
Student Government Revision
Under the direction of Delta Skull, junior mens honorary, and 
Phi Tau Gamma, junior womens honorary, the third leaders con
ference was held on February 24 and 25.
The purpose of this conference was to consider the revision of 
student government as proposed' 
by Mortar Board and ODK with 
the purpose of achieving effec
tiveness and prestige for that 
government. At the dinner meet
ing on Friday evening, speakers 
William P. Zakowicz and Ed Feigenbaum read over the proposed 
constitution and discussed it 
briefly.
The conference reassembled on 
Saturday morning to discuss ques
tions concerning various point* m 
the proposed constitution.
Through the general discussion of 
the group as a whole and later of 
the smaller discussion groups 
three main questions were raised.
First: Should the commuters be 
included as a specific group with 
an allotted number of represen
tatives in the student council, and, 
if so, can the commuters organize 
themselves to be powerful enough 
to warrant such a representa
tion?
Are Commuters Interested?
Much of the discussion on this 
question had to do with whether 
the commuters were actually inATO Pledges Win 
Scholarship Race
Of interest to the fraternities are 
the pledge class scholarship rat
ings for the fall semester. Alpha 
Tau Omega pledges led the pack 
with a 2.42 average, thus helping 
their fraternity to tr1-- first in the 
overall ratings. Sigma Nu was 
second with 2.30, and three place 
accuracy was required to separate 
Pi Kappa Alpha and Beta Theta 
Pi into third and fourth places re
spectively. The all-pledge factor, 
2.10, was at least %.10 above the 
all-freshmen mens average.
Alpha Tau Omega................2 42
Sigma Nu ...............................2.30
Pi Kappa Alpha .........4____2.269
Beta Theta Pi .....................2.265
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ....... 2.233
Theta Xi ..............................2.19
Beta Sigma Rho .....................2.15
Delta Upsilon ........................2.02
Delta Tau Delta ..................1.96
Phi Kappa .................... 1.94 '
Tau Delta Phi ........................... 1.78
Paul Schweikher 
Architecture Head
A distinguished American architect has been named head of 
the department of architecture here at Tech.
Paul Schweikher, who has been chairman of the Yale depart
ment since 1953, has been appointed professor and head of architec-----------------------------------------------------?ture in the College of Fine Arts,
0 .[ i President J. C. Warner announcedJon Saxe Heads 
Newly Reorganized 
Technical Staff
[Continued on page 8} Kappa Sigma1.64
The Carnegie Technical has re
cently reorganized and acquired a 
new staff to head the coming 
year's operations. The Technical 
does not elect its editor or staff; 
the outgoing editor appoints the 
new man with the approval of the 
staff. The new editor then forms 
his own staff. This year, the out
going editor, Joel Levinson, ap
pointed Jon Saxe, a junior chem
ical engineering, editor.
Heretofore, the Technical has 
been organized with all depart
ments directly responsible to the 
editor-in-chief. Under the new 
plan, power will be delegated in 
pyramid fashion under the edi
tor. This pyramid is composed of 
two major departments: produc
tion under Bill Schall, sophomore 
chemical engineer, and public re
lations under Pete Urbach, junior 
EE.
Increased Efficiency
Under Schall is the features 
department headed by Lou Sal
vador, junior chemical engineer 
and Dave Stea, junior ME. The art 
director is Walt McCormick, jun
ior P&D, operating under public 
relations. Harry Hoover, junior 
printing management, is the bus
iness manager and operates jointly 
with the operations and public re
lations departments in the new 
plan. The aim of this scheme is to 
create greater efficiency and to 
relieve the editor of personal-su
pervision of production.
The Technical has three editorial 
boards which meet monthly to 
gather ideas, establish policies, and 
lay plans for future articles. It is 
through the deliberations of this 
group that a topic is chosen for 
the annual theme issue. It was last 
year's theme issue, The Infinite 
Cathedral, which was largely re
sponsible for earning the Carnegie 
Technical the honor of being 
the best college technical magazirm
Wednesday.
Mr. Schweikher fills a vacancy 
created last June when John Knox 
Shear resigned to become editor 
of "the Architectural Record.
Jon Saxe
New Technical Editor
in the United States.
An extensive publicity campaign 
is also currently underway. It is 
designed to create more interest 
among Techs alumni and to in
crease alumni circulation.
Mr. Paul Schweikher
Heads Architecture
Professor Raymond A. Fisher has 
filled the post as acting head this 
year.
One of the countrys most sensi
tive and perceptive designers, Mr. 
Schweikheris known for his work 
on residences, schools, churches, 
college dormitories and laborator
ies. Exhibitions of his work, lec
tures to student and professional 
groups, teaching, and other serv
ices to his profession have gained 
Mr. Schweikher an international 
reputation. He is chairman of this 
years National Selection Commit
tee which grants Fulbright Awards 
in architecture.
Brings Distinction
He is a graduate of Yale Uni
versity and. received an honorary 
masters degree from that institu
tion in 1953. During World Arar II, 
the new architectural head was a 
lieutenant commander in the 
Navy.
The appointment of Paul 
[Continued on page 8]
A Phi O Planning 
Auction Of Lost 
And Found Items
Tuesday, March 6 at 11:30 a.m., 
in Skibo, Alpha Phi Omega will 
conduct a lost and found auction. 
Each year hundreds of articles are 
turned into lost and found. Many 
items are claimed, but many more 
are not. At the end of a years 
time the stock includes all sorts 
and quantities of things from slide 
rules to leather jackets.
The main purpose of lost and 
I found is to get lost articles back 
to their rightful owners, but at the 
end of a year articles are removed 
from lost and found and turned 
over to APO to be sold at the 
annual public auction. All money 
collected is turned over to the 
Campus Chest. So take advantage 
of this opportunity to pick up 
one of the many valuable items to 
be sold, and at the same time be 
contributing to your Campus 
Chest. *

---------------------------------------------------

./age 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, February 28, 1938
Im working with top names and top talent"
SENIORSGRADUATE STUDENTS
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
METALLURGISTS - PHYSICISTS
Wide Open Opportunities at Raytheon
Join a company where your prospects are bright right from the 
start! Raytheon puts emphasis on youth and ability. Graduate 
study is encouraged through a tuition payment plan. Attractive 
openings now in the following product areas:
microwave tubes  special purpose tubes  guided missiles 
transistors  diodes  receiving tubes  TV receivers  radar 
metallurgy  ceramics  communications  cathode ray tubes 
sonar  servomechanisms  solid state physics  field engineering
RAYTHEON MANUFACTURING 
COMPANY
Waltham S4, Massachusetts
(In tti* suburban Boston ara)
mi Elecironict
Consult your College Plocement Office for further 
information, literature ond appointment.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS ON: F#b. 29
Thats one of Richard P. Abrahams 
comments about his career with Bell Tele
phone Laboratories in Murray Hill, N. J. 
In 1954, after Id received my M.S. from 
Stanford, Dick continues, I was inter
viewed by a number of companies. Of 
thrpe I liked the Bell Labs interview best
- t!ie interviewer knew what he was talkii about, and the Labs seemed a high
er, iber place.
The Labs have a professional atmos
phere, and Im really impressed by my 
working associates. As for my work, Ive 
been on rotating assignmentsworking 
with transistor networks and their meas
urement techniques, studying magnetic
drum circuitry, and doing classified work 
on Nike. This experience is tremendous.
In addition to the job, I attend Labconducted classes on a graduate level 
several times a week. Besides that, the 
Labs are helping me get a Ph.D. at 
Columbia by giving me time off to get to 
late afternoon classes. Thats the kind of 
co-operation you really appreciate from 
your company.
What are important to me are the op
portunities offered by the job and the 
work itself. My wife and I own a house 
near Murray Hill, and weve found a lot 
of friends through the Labs. All in all, 
I think Im in the right kind of place.
Dick Abraham is typical of the many young men 
who are finding their careers in the Bell System. 
Similar career opportunities exist in the Bell 
Telephone Companies, Western Electric and 
Sandia Corporation. Your placement officer has 
more information about these companies.
n
Toloption
Systom
Gallagher, Duquesne President, 
To Speak At Tech On March 6
The Very Reverend Vernon F. Gallagher, C.S.Sp., President of 
Duquesne University, will speak to the next Assembly at Carnegie 
Tech sponsored by the Committee on Religious Activities, in co
operation with the Newman Club. This assembly will be on Tues
day, March 6, at 11:30 a.m. in Por-* 
ter Hall Auditorium.
Father Gallagher became presi
dent of Duquesne University on 
July 1, 1950, just seven years after 
his appointment to the staff of the 
school as an associate professor of 
English. Only 36 at the time, he 
was one of the youngest university 
presidents of America. In 1945 he 
was made assistant dean of the
college and in 1946 he rose to dean 
of the college and vice-president 
of the university. He served in 
those two posts until his appoint
ment to the presidency.
He joined the Holy Ghost Order 
in 1927, when he enrolled in the 
Seminary at Cornwells Heights, 
Pennsylvania. After four years of 
prep school and two years of col
lege, he transferred to the Holy 
Ghost Seminary at Norwalk, Con
necticut, where he studied for six 
years, earning the B.A. and B.D. 
degrees. He was ordained in June, 
1939.
Man Of The Future
From 1940 to 1942, he did 
graduate work at the University 
of Pennsylvania and was awarded 
the Master of Arts degree in June, 
1942. Until he went to Duquesne. 
he taught at Saint Josephs High 
School in Philadelphia while 
working for his Ph.D. at Pennsyl
vania. He was awarded the Ph.D. 
in English by Pennsylvania in 
June, 1952.
In 1951 Father Gallagher an
nounced a building program for 
Duquesne that began in 1953 as 
the University celebrated its sev
enty-fifth anniversary. The build
ing plans provided the keynote for 
the Jubilee Celebration, Du
quesne Builds with Pittsburgh.
In 1953 Father Gallagher was 
chosen one of Pittsburghs 100
Rev. Vernon F. Gallagher
To Speak Next Tuesday
Men of the Future by Time Mag
azine and the Pittsburgh Chamber 
of Commerce. February 1, 1954, 
he was chosen Pittsburghs Manof-the-Year in education by the 
Pittsburgh Junior Chamber - of 
Commerce.
Pictures
The last chance to have pho
tographs taken for the This
tle at GimbeFs photo-reflex 
studio will be Wednesday, 
February 29. The Thistle re
minds all who still have proofs 
to return them to the studio 
immediately.
Scholarships
Scholarship applications are 
available in AH 154. All ap
plications are due by April 1.
Student Christian 
Federation Studies 
Concept Of Power
The turmoil in Asia, Africa, and 
the South and what we can do 
about it will be part of the con
tent of the brand new discussion 
groups which are open to students 
and are sponsored by the S. C. F.
The discussion groups which be
gin today are based on the sub
ject Power and how this power 
should be used to make the world 
a better place to live. If that topic 
doesnt sound fascinating, perhaps 
it will when the reader realizes the 
significance of the various types 
of power .. . atomic bomb, the H 
bomb, political power, social pres
sure, intellectual achievements, 
racism, communism and religion.
Two times are available to at
tend these discussions, which are 
guaranteed to be thought provok
ing to anyone who has his eyes 
and ears open to the conditions 
around the world. The group will 
meet at 1:30 Tuesday and 12:30
Thursday in Room 129 A, AH. The 
Tuesday group will use particular
ly the Old and New Testaments as 
their background for finding solu
tions to current problems; while 
the Thursday group will attempt to 
examine the world crisis from the 
viewpoints of many religions and 
idealogies. What are the current 
problems? Race and minority bar
riers, struggle for domination in 
Asia, and the fighting in the Mid
dle East are just a few.
Verdi Requiem 
To Be Performed 
At Next Concert
In the realm of choral music, 
there are many well known com
positions which never lose their 
beauty and appeal. The Pittsburgh 
Symphony under the direction of 
William Steinberg will devote its 
next concert to just such a work, 
the Verdi Requiem, anu the fine 
voices of the Mendelssohn Choir 
will do the choral parts.
This concert will be presented 
on Friday and Sunday, March 2 
and 4, at Syria Mosque. Soloists 
for the Requiem will be Frances 
Yeend, soprano; Beatric Krebs, 
alto; David Garen, tenor; and Nic
ola Moscona, bass. Also on the pro
gram will be a short work for 
chorus and orchestra by Verdi, his 
Te Deum.
Frances Yeend, who appeared 
here earlier this season in Handels 
Messiah, has been highly prais
ed in every part of the world for 
her unmatched vocal ability and 
musical insight. She is a star solo
ist of the Metropolitan Opera Com
pany, and has sung over 150 con
cert performances with orchestras 
all over the United States. Beatrice 
Krebs will be remembered for her 
fine performance of Beethoven]? 
Ninth Symphony last season in 
Pittsburgh. She is a soloist at the 
Riverside Church in New York 
City, and she also performs regu
larly at the Berkshire Summer 
Festival Opera Workshop at Tanglewood, Massachussetts.
Talent From Europe
David Garen, who is a very well 
known singer in the opera houses 
of Europe, has only recently be
gun to appear in concert in tl^ 
United States. He has sung roles 
with the New York City Opera, 
the San Carlo Opera, the Central 
City Opera Festival in Colorado, 
and in the Venezuela National Op
era House in Caracas. Nicola Mos
cona has been with the Metropoli
tan Opera Company for nineteen 
years, and is one of the best 
known of todays operatic bass^- 
baritone soloists.
Following this concert, the Pitts)C 
burgh Symphony will begin its an
nual spring tour, and will be ab
sent from the Steel City for four 
weeks. The next concert at Syria 
Mosque will be held the first week 
in April, and will feature Julian 
Olevsky, the noted young Amer
ican violinist, in a performance of 
the Mozart Violin in A Major.
A Campus-to-Career C
Dick Abraham of Bell Telephone Laboratories, here experimenting 
with dosing the loop on a transistor feedback amplifier.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, February 28, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage J
Faculty Member 
To Make Debut 
In Piano Recital
Pianist Helen Gossard, who re
cently joined the Carnegie Col
lege of Fine Arts music faculty, 
Will present her first Pittsburgh 
recital on Sunday, March 4, in the 
Fine Arts Exhibition Hall, at 8:30 
p.m. A graduate of Carnegie Tech 
and the University of Southern 
California, Miss Gossard has 
studied with Selmar Janson, John 
Crown and Alice Ehlers. She was 
also a student of James Friskin 
at Chautauqua, New York, sum
mer school. Last year Miss Gos
sard was soloist with the Chatta
nooga Symphony and was also 
accompanist for the Chattanooga 
Opera Association and Civic
Chorus. She was piano instructor 
at the University of Chattanooga 
in Tennessee before coming to 
Carnegie Tech.
For her Pittsburgh debut,' Miss 
Gossard has chosen Toccata in D 
Major by Bach; Sonata, Op. 27, No. 
1 by Beethoven; four selections 
by Brahms, which include his In
termezzo Opus 76, No. 4; and 
Chopins Nocturne, Opus 15, No. 
1 and Polonaise, Opus 44.
The public is cordially invited 
to attend the recital. Tickets may 
be obtained in the Music Dept, 
office, College of Fine Arts.
Campus Chest
Pledges for the 1955-56 
Campus Chest are due in the 
Cashiers Office Friday, March 
2.
On CampuswithMaxSkkan
(Author of "Barefoot Boy With, Cheek, etc.)
HUSBANDS, ANYONE?
It has been alleged that coeds go to college for the sole purpose 
of finding husbands. This is, of course, an infamous canard, and 
I give fair warning that small and spongy as I am, anybody who 
ever says such a dastardly thing when I am around had better 
be prepared for a sound hiding!
Girls go to college for precisely the same reasons as men do: 
to broaden their horizons, to lengthen their vistas, to drink at the 
fount of wisdom, to trail their fingers in the main currents of 
fP American thought. But if, by chance, while a girl is engaged in 
these lofty "pursuits, a likely looking husband should pop into 
view, why, whats wrong with that? Eh? Whats wrong with 
that?
The question now arises, what should a girl look for in a hus
band? A great deal has been written on this subject. Some say 
character is most important, some say background, some say 
appearance, some say education. All are wrong.
The most important thing  bar none  in a husband is health. 
Though he be handsome as Apollo and rich as Captain 
(||McCutchen, what good is he if he just lays around all day 
accumulating bedsores?
I
ZmSSeW k 16 StVofynnd3ndlimb... '
The very first thing to do upon meeting a man is to make sure 
that he is sound of wind and limb. Before he has a chance to 
beguile you with his wit and charm, slap a thermometer in his 
mouth, roll back his eyelids, yank out his tongue, palpate his 
thorax, rap his patella, ask him to straighten out a horseshoe 
with his teeth. If he fails to pass these few basic tests, phone 
f for an ambulance and go on to the next prospect.
If, however, he turns out to be physically fit, proceed to the 
second most important requirement in a husband. I refer to a 
sense of humor.
A man who cant take a joke is a man to be shunned. There are 
several simple tests to find out whether your prospect can take 
a joke or not. You'can, for example, slash bis tires. Or burn his 
Mad comics. Or steal his switchblade. Or turn loose his pet 
raccoon. Or shave his head.
After each of these merry pranks, laugh gaily and shout 
April Fool! If he replies, But this is November 28, or somec thing equally churlish, cross him off your list and thank your 
^ lucky stars you found out in time.
But if he laughs silverly and calls you Little minx! then 
put him to the next test: Find out whether he is gentle.
The easiest, quickest way to ascertain his gentleness is, of 
course, to look at the cigarette he smokes. Is it mild? Is it 
clement? Is it humane? Is it balm to the palate? Does it minister 
tenderly to the taste-buds? Does it coddle the nerve-ends? Is it 
the perfect accompaniment to todays easier, breezier living? 
Is it genial? Is it bright and friendly and full of dulcet pleasure 
from cock-crow till the heart of darkness?
Is it, in short, Philip Morris?If Philip Morris it be, then clasp the man to your bosom with 
hoops of steel, for you may be sure that he is gentle as a summer 
breeze, gentle as a mothers kiss, gentle to his very marrow.
And now, having found a man who is gentle and healthy and 
blessed with a sense of humor, only one thing remains: namely, 
to make sure he will always earn a handsome living. That, 
fortunately, is very simple. Just enroll him in Engineering.
Max Shulnian, 1956
The makers of Philip Morris, who bring you this column, would like 
Jh to suggest another pleasant anti gentle life's companion : Philip Morris, 
of corrisi
Tarquans Prepare 
For Annual Show 
Tn Carnegie Pool
Tarquans in Toyland, this 
years version of Tarquans an
nual water show, will be present
ed Thursday and Friday, March 
9 and 10, at 8 p.m. in the Tech 
pool. The production, which is 
written and directed by the mem
bers, wil consist of thirteen syn
chronized group and solo swim
ming numbers.
In keeping with the theme, 
story book characters such as 
Sleeping Beauty and Prince 
Charming will come to life in a 
duet featuring Rita Menke and 
Dick Tauson, and Raggedy Ann 
and Andy done by Sharon Lease 
and Karl Thayer. Other numbers 
include portrayals of Space Pa
trol, Cowboys and Indians, Wood
en Soldiers, and Teddy Bears. 
Also featured will be Punch and 
Judy, a comedy diving act, by 
Janet Shoop, Sally Ambrose,- and 
Liz Neumann.
Costumes, scenery, and modern 
dancing will set the mood to? 
each number. Assisting the thirtythree club members in the danc
ing will be eight-year old Jeannie 
Wiznick of Evansburg. Miss Jane 
Fisk is the Tarquan adviser.
This years show promises to be 
one of the clubs finest, and an 
enjoyable evening is in store for 
all who attend. Tickets may be 
obtained at the athletic office or 
from any Tarquan member.
VAC Considers Student Voice 
In Carnegie Educational Policy
The Undergraduate Advisory Committee met last Monday to dis
cuss the question of student voice in the setting of educational poli
cies. While the issue has never been raised formally, the administi^- 
tion felt that it might arise at some future date. Dr. Strick, along
-------*---------------------------------------------#with Dr. Miner and Dr. Graham,
TT . called the meeting to findlout stu-tiome Economics 
Group To Meet
Notice to all members of the 
Home Economics Club: the last 
day of February has been chosen 
as the date of the monthly Home 
Economics Club program-meeting. 
The choice for the month, pro
gram-wise, is a look at the whys 
and wherefores of modern cooking. 
Mildred Arnold or the American 
Institute of Baking will prepare 
and, we hope, serve a - variety of 
foods. The demonstration will be 
held in Margaret Morrison, Room 
318, at 3:30 p.m., Wednesday, Feb
ruary the twenty-ninth.
dent opinion on the matter.
The discussion which evolved 
was not about whether or not the 
student should help make school 
policies, but rather in which areas 
the student should have a voice, 
and by what representation. 
While it was unanimously decid
ed that the students should not 
be excluded from policy-making, 
they would have no interest or 
purpose in sitting in on matters 
concerning faculty and others not 
directly concerning the students.
The new calendar, the elimina
tion of the pre-exam study day, 
tuition and dorm fee increase are 
some of the issues which the stu
dent body might have been espec
ially interested in. Even if it were 
only to express student opinion 
and to bring back to the studen;The business portion of the 
meeting will be devoted to nom; body the administrations reasons 
inations for officers of the Home for decisions, having at least a 
Economics Club council. \ slate of ; representative at such policy
making meetings was considered 
wise by the group.
Who Will Represent?
Just who would be the stunominees, drawn up by the present 
council, will be presented, and 
further nominations from the club 
as a whole will be accepted at this 
time. The final elections will be 
held in March.
dents representatives was dis[Continued on page 8]
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ENGINEERS AND METALLURGISTS
Hamilton Standard Division 
United Aircraft Corporation
Designers and Manufacturers of
JET AIRCRAFT EQUIPMENT 
AND PROPELLERS
 JET FUEL CONTROLS
(Electronic & Hydro-Mechanical)
 JET TURBINE STARTERS
' (Pneumatic & Combustion)
 HYDRAULIC PUMPS
(Variable Displacement)
 AIR CONDITIONING 
SYSTEMS
(Air Cycle & Vapor)
 PROPELLERS
(for Turbine &
Piston Engines)
 CONTROLS & ACCESSORIES 
FOR NUCLEAR ENGINES
Engineering Staff Continuously Expanded for the 
Past 30 Years  and Still Growing.
Largest New Jet Aircraft Equipment Development 
Program In Our History.
Local Graduate Study Program with R.P.I. Available - 
Tuition Assistance.
Modern Plant with Extensive Research Facilities.
INTERVIEWS
Tuesday, 
March 13
For appointment and 
additional informa
tion see your place
ment officer.
C. E. Wangeman
The Date: 
TSe Time: 
The Place:
Tuesday, March 13
See Your Placement Officer
HAMILTON STANDARD DIVISION 
UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
Windsor Locks, Connecticut

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, February 28, 1956
Editorial
A New Student Government
Whoever first thought of the leaders conference idea 
seems to have struck upon an exceptionally good method for 
getting student opinion, and plenty of it. The third such con
ference, held last weekend, accomplished its objective, de
spite the fact that no unified decisions or statements were 
made.
The purpose was merely to review the outline for the 
proposed new student government at Tech. This constitu
tional outline had been evolved through much work of ODK 
and Mortar Board, and before they put it up for ratifica
tion by the present Student Council, they wanted to hear 
some responsible and constructive criticisms on it. Then, after 
studying these, and possibly rewriting portions of the docu
ment, they could present it and be reasonably assured that it 
would be approved.
The leaders dug into the thing eagerly, and spent an 
evening meeting and a morning of discussions in talking it 
over. Some of the more controversial points mentioned 
and possible revisions suggested are reported elsewhere, 
(see page 1). The general consensus of opinion with regard 
to the constitution is that it is basically a good idea, but 
needs a lot of work on it along certain lines before it will 
be a really sound and complete foundation for a student 
government. Individual comments on it ranged from ex
cellent down to high schoolish.
As yet, comparatively few people have any kind of con
ception at all of what this new constitution is, what dif
ference will it make, and how it will affect everybody. 
Briefly, its purpose is to set up a legislative body remotely 
similar to our present Student Council, but including repre
sentatives of certain powerful organizations now unrepre
sented, who effectively run the campus.
The Executive Council of the new government will be 
something entirely new on campus. It is to be composed of 
12 members representing all campus organizations in pro
portion to the strength of each, and it will be the enforce
ment body. The Judiciary body will be the Supreme Court 
of the campus, and. as such, will act as a higher court above 
all other student courts.
The difference it will make is that the student governing 
body will become a group truly representing the power forces 
on campus. Everybody will look up to them as the final 
student authority, instead of according them the same dis
respect earned by Student Councils under the present sys
tem.
Over The Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
Pittsburghs unpredictable weather is raising havoc with the 
normal life of the college student and driving Greek Sing directors 
to despair. To catch a cold is not bad. A couple of aspirins and a 
little care about dressing during this pneumonia weather is all that 
is needed. To be forced to administer to a roommate with a cold is 
worse; much worse.
If the afflicted victim of the unknown germ happens to be a 
Greek singer, then he gets more attention from his fraternity brothers 
than a chick from the mother hen. Give up cigarettes, give up 
school if necessary, but protect that throat. Doctor Halls office has 
been jammed with would be Mario Lanzas and Patrice Munsels 
and figures to have standing room only starting tomorrow.
However, this is not meant as a slam against either the fraternity 
or the sorority. Everyone wants to win, and this, in my estimation, 
is very good. Its competition that has made good Greek Sing nights. 
Its the will to win that makes a good team a great team, and 
its personal drive and ambition that makes a champion. So, if more 
wool scarfs are seen on campus this next week, if more lemons 
are taken with Skibo tea than are allowed, and if cigarette sales go 
down, it only means keener competition and a better Greek Sing. 
Nothing has ever replaced the will to win.
* * 
Little quickies: Aside to Woeful Lover ... Send your letter
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
MUseum 2-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9846, for advertising and subscription 
rates call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology. Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Hitw-la-CUel ..............................................................................................................Robert Russel]
HertsMs Manager .............. .......................... ............ ....................................Vie Shiry
Mews Editor ......................................................................................................................Mario King
ports EdKer.............................................................*..........................................................Tom Wright
Copy Editor.....................................................................................................t................Richard Pox
real erne Editor.........................................................................................................Stephanie Mackay
Entered as second class matter on OcwKer 4, 1907, at the Poet Office at 
Pittsburgh. Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing mt special 
rates of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press. _ ____Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., Mew York City, Subscriptions 1.10 
pec year.
to Molly Mayfield, not to me . . . What has hap
pened to the card game Oh Hell which enjoyed 
such popularity last year? . . . Tickets went fast 
for Antony and Cleopatra.. . Epigram of the 
week:Men, like trout, are easily caught with a 
gaudy feather. Thats why theres money in lin
gerie . . .
Scot Salute
At the PiDE publications mixer on February 15 
two scot staff members presented an original com
position set to music which expressed the scot's 
feelings towards the TARTAN. This ditty is re
produced herewith in its unexpurgated entirety: 
Were sparrin with the Tartan;
Theres been a public schism 
We differ with their sentiments 
Concerning criticism.
Cause the nasty thing the Tartan 
Has said about the Scot 
Is the only criticism that our staff 
Has ever got.
Take back your words 
Take back those pearls!
What makes you think
That editors shouldnt be girls?
We thought you knew that the bricks we threw 
Were a token of our esteem.
When we think of that you wrote in exchange 
Oh! It all seems a horrible dream! *
You insinuated that the last ed fled 
From deadline pressures, critics and the draft! 
Wed like to ask ha 
But shes in Alaska
Drawing feelthy pictures for the Shaft!
If Junior P and Ds mind their Qs and Ps 
Will you let us use your telephone please?
Cant do . . . cant do . . . cause we just cant 
do without you!
Letters
Panhell Strikes Back
Dear R.H.R.:
As members of the committee of Panhellenic 
Council appointed to answer your penetrating letter 
on rushing, we would like to explain rather than 
defend our position on the present rushing sys
tem. Contrary to your stated opinion, Panhellenic 
Council has been very concerned about and ac
tively engaged in working on the present rush 
program. Since rushing has such an ancient 
origin, as you so aptly pointed out, we feel it un
wise to abandon our present form without due de
liberation.
By checking your back issues of  the Tartan? 
you will find that Panhellenic Council has taken
steps to reduce the inefficiencies of rushing. In 
1952-53, sophomore rush was abandoned and girls 
were permitted to join sororities in the second 
semester of their freshman year. The following 
year, the rush period was reduced from four to 
three weeks. As Homecoming, Greek Sing, and 
Spring Carnival events have become more lavish 
and time consuming, so has rushing become mor$ 
hectic. We do not condone these changes, but we 
feel they are a natural outcome because of the com
petitive nature of these events. Many incidents and 
comments which have been made recently about the 
time schedule and procedure followed in rushing 
have led Panhellenic Council to believe that the 
drastic measures are necessary at this time. Meet
ings have already been held for the purpose of 
revising our system and for determining just how 
much time the sororities and rushees need to come 
to a decision. ^
We thank you for giving a full column ia the 
Tartan to a problem which we think is of prime 
importance. However, your article was inaccurate, 
for most sorority women are not convinced that 
this is either a good or the best rushing plan pos
sible. If you have any constructive criticism on 
how we can revise the rushing system, we would 
greatly appreciate hearing from you.
Respectfully submitted,
Barb Hudacek, Betsy Kuhn,
Eileen Landay, Ruthann v<
Mutschler, Panhellenic Council.
P.S.Note to the proofreader: Watch Mr.
Russells and Mr. Szwecs spelling of Panhel.
*  
Editors Note: Apparently the chief controversy 
with regard to last weeks editorial centers around 
the last sentence, which has been interpreted to 
say that Panhell is lazier than CFP, and isnt try
ing to revise sorority rushing. Any explanation of 
the actual meaning intended would be superfluous . 
and classed as an excuse. The above letter has 
clarified for everyones benefit the fact that Pan
hell believes that the present system has progress
ed (or degenerated) to the point where drastic 
measures are necessary at this time. Constructive 
criticisms would no doubt be appreciatively re
ceived by Panhell from anyone caring to offer them 
through the TARTAN or otherwise.
P.S.Note from the proofreader:'We have been 
watching the spelling of Panhell for many weeks 
and some of the varieties we have observed are*y 
Pan Hel, Pan-Hel, Panhell, Pan Hell, Panhel, PanHell, etc. Three weeks ago, with the hope of 
establishing some degree of consistency, we took 
one of the more frequent spellings, Panhell, and 
with the approval of a Panhell member, decided 
to make it the TARTAN standard. Now there seems 
to be some inner conflict as to how that group 
does want its name to appear in print. Until we 
are given an indication of sorority consistency, it 
remains Panhell to the TARTAN.
P.P.S.Note to the letter writers: Watch your.IV 
spelling of Mr. Szewcs name. Until directed diff
erently by Mr. Szewc, we will not change the spell
ing of his name, either.
An "Operator"
par excellence
Its not just his suave pitch 
hes got the inside track on style 
and value, too. Here, he sports 
an Arrow Gabanarothe sport 
thirt that fits perfectly, in 
neck size and sleeve length*. 
Gabanaro comes in a new lighter 
weight rayon gabardine ... 13 
solid colors. Now available 
in a new medium-spread collar. 
Just $5.95.
-ARROWS
CASUAL WEAR
first in fashion
h
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.  Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, February 28, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
Carnegie Five Beaten 
By Pitt, Westminster
Pitt 85. Tech 81
ft Local fans saw one of the most exciting games to ever take 
place in the Oakland area when the Pitt Panthers and the Tartans 
met for the second of a two game series at Skibo Gym. The Panthers 
had thgir hands full and were only able to win the game by going
into an overtime. The final score#-----------------------------------------------------
was 85-81 in the overtime after
the regular game time ran out 
with the two teams in a 72-all 
deadlock.
Lazor of Pitt and our Dick Fieler 
were tied for the high point hon
ors with 26 each. Alan Frank 
j-opped in a total of 23, and 
locker brought in ten points, and 
most of these were at crucial times 
in the game. Pitt ended up with 
four men in the double figures to 
Techs three.
The Tartans had a very poor 
time of it at the free throw line, 
and if they had hit more often, 
they would have brought home 
more than just a moral victory. 
The game was often on the verge 
fit a football game and many a 
fiowl went up from the fans at 
some of the calls. However, the 
men in blue were trying to call a 
fair game, so they managed to 
keep the mistakes about even in 
their calls for both teams.
The Tartans had a total of five 
fouls called against them in the 
overtime alone and the end result 
was a victory for the Panthers at 
the free throw line.
*fT G. F. P.|TECH G. F. P.
Plfeues, f 0 5 51Fieler, f 10 6 26
Riser, f 10 2 22|Boyd, f 3 2 8
Lazor, c 9 8 26| Frank, c 6 11 23
Fenwick, g 2 8 12| Mocker, g 4 2 10
Hursh, g 4 8 16| Rupert, g 2 4 8
Markvich, f 0 0 0|Nathanson, f 0 0 0
Kleinman, g 0 0 0; Sobolwski, c 1 0 2
Zimovan, g 0 0 0|Tucci, g 2 0 4
Totals 26 33 85] Totals 28 25 81
Half time score: Pit.t 37, Tech 36. 
Personal fouls: Pitt (26)-Pegues 3,
Riser, 5, Lazor 4, Fenwick 4, Hursh 4, 
Zimmovan, Kleinman 3; Tech (27)Boyd 
4, Fieler 2, Frank 5, Mocker 5, Rupert 
4, Sobolewski 5, Tucci 2. 
fjtylissed free throws: Pitt (9)Riser,
Lazor 2, Pegues, Penwick, Hursh 3, 
Kleinman. Tech (15)Boyd 5, Frank 4, 
Mocker, Rupert 3, Fieler 2.
Referee: Paul Bertha. Umpire: Cliff
Fair.
Westminster 88. Tech 68
The Tartans traveled to New 
Wilmington this past Saturday for 
their next to las,, game of the sea
son, and they gave the boys of 
Westminster a* real scare before 
bowing to them to the tune of 88- 
The Tartans held them down
IM Night
On IM Night, March 23, be
tween the halves of the cham
pionship basketball game, the 
various trophies won during 
the year will be given out by 
Ray Matthews, star halfback 
of the Pittsburgh Steelers.
JThere will also be other halftime and post-game entertain
ment. This year IM Night will 
provide the thrills of an ex
citing basketball game, and 
the other activities will even 
include the spectators.
giant musical rally
SATURDAY NITE
C-'
1*

GREATER PITTSBURGHYouth for Christ
SOLDIERS AND SAILORS 
MEMORIAL HALL  OAKLAND
songfest starts 7:30
until the final period and then the 
Titans caught fire and began to 
pour them through the hoop.
Despite the 20-point difference 
in the final score, the game was 
close until Tech lost the services 
of Alan Frank who went out via 
the five foul route.^ The Tartans 
then lost control of the boards and 
started to fall back pretty fast. 
Alan was high scorer for the Skibo 
quintet with 16 points. Fieler was 
second with 15, Mocker had 14, 
and Rupert hit for 12.
This Wednesday the Tartans 
will meet Penn State in the final 
game of the season. Dick Fieler, 
Jim Boyd, Ralph Mocker and 
Wayne Nathanson will be playing 
their last game for the Tartan 
quintet. A victory on Wednesday 
will give the Tartans a season 
record of nine wins against 12 
losses.
WESTMINSTER | CARNEGIE TECH 
G. F. P.| G. F. P.
Rankin, f 10 2 221 Boyd, f 13 5
Strechler, f 9 2 201 Fieler, f 6 3 15
Riley, c 5 12 22Frank, c 6 4 16
Davis, g 2 6 10| Mocker, g 6 2 14
Stillson, g 3 0 61 Rupert, g 5 2 12
Doran, g 1 0 2| Nathanson, f 2 0 4
Tranter, g 2 2 6| Tucci, g 10 2
Totals 32 23 88| Totals 27 14 68
Halftime scoreWestminster 40, Carnegie Tech 30.
Personal Fouls: Westminster(Rankin, 
2, Pryor, Doran, Riley, Davis 3; Stillson, 
2, Tranter). Carnegie Tech15. (Boyd, 
2; Sobolewski, 2; Miller, 2; Fieler, Na
thanson, Frank, 5; Mocker, 2).
RefereeBertha. UmpireFair.
1956 Siveepstakes
All organizations interested 
in entering the 1956 Spring 
Carnival Buggy Competition, 
please have a representative at 
the first meeting. This will be 
held at the Alpha Tau Omega 
House, Thursday, March I at 
7:00 p.m.
Mermen Lose To 
Grove City; Win 
W&J Dual Meet
Techs dual swimming season 
was concluded last week with a 
loss to Grove City College on 
Wednesday and a victory over 
Washington and Jefferson this 
past Saturday.
At Grove City, Tech was only 
able to capture three first places, 
but proved to be a well balanced 
team by taking seconds and thirds 
in most of the events that were 
won by Grove City. This made the 
final score 35-49. Techs only firsts 
were taken by Jim Goldman in 
the 50 yard freestyle, Bob Shuck 
in the 440 yard freestyle and by 
the 440 yard relay team consisting 
of Jim Goldman, Ross Englemen, 
Dave Harrington and Tony Chamay.
Saturday proved to be a differ
ent story though. Tech captured 
eight firsts which led the tankmen 
to an easy victory over Washing
ton and Jefferson. Jim Feldman 
scored two impressive firsts in the 
50 yard and 100.yard freestyle 
with times of 25.4 and 57.5 respctively. Other Tech firsts were 
scored by Bob Shuck in the 220 
yard free style, Dave Harrington 
in the 200 yard individual medley, 
Frank Shuck in the 200 yards back 
stroke, Ross Engleman in the 440 
yard freestyle, Harold Patrick in 
diving, and the 400 yard freestyle 
relay team of Goldman, Renshaw, 
Long and Bob Shuck.
300-Yards Medley Relay  Wash-Jeff 
(Watson, Gysegan, Krut). Time3:16.3.
220-Yards Free StyleR. Shuck (T) ; 
second, Ekstrom (W-J); third, Chamay 
(T). Time2:31.5.
50-Yards Free StyleGoldman (T); 
second, Scott (W-J); third, Long (T). 
Time:25.4.
200-Yards Individual MedleyHarring
ton (T); second, Gysegan (W-J); third, 
Shipley (T). Time2:32.
Diving  Patrick (T); second, Davis 
(T); third, Cicero (W-J).
100-Yards Free StyleGoldman (T); 
second, Scott (W-J); third, Chamay (T). Time:57.5.
200-Yards Back StrokeF. Shuck (T);. 
second, Hilles. (T); third, Hayes (W-J). 
Time2:34.7.
440-Yards Free StyleEngleman (T); 
second, Ekstrom (W-J); third, D. Shuck 
(T> Time5:34.8.
200-Yards Breast StrokeFranz (W-J); 
second, Derringer (T); third, Sciulli (T). 
Time2:37.8.
400-Yards RelayCarnegie Tech (Gold
man, Renshaw, Long, R. Shuck. Time 
4:08.3.
IM Activities
IM Rifle
The final entry date for intra
mural rifle teams has been moved 
back to March 5. All those inter
ested sign up in the intramural 
office. There is an entry fee of 
$1.50 per team. For further infor
mation see Mr. Birdy in Room 
104 of the Gym or John Herr, the 
student representative.
Table Tennis 
(Singles and Doubles)
There are still a few openings 
in table tennis. Any one interested 
in entering the singles or doubles 
tournament see Mr. Birdy by 
Wednesday, February 29. 'The 
pairings will be on the IM bulletin board at 4:30 on February 29.
The top man in each pairing is 
responsible for contacting his op
ponent and the first round scored 
must be turned in by Monday,
March 5.
Foul Shooting
Entries are due for the foul 
shooting tournament by March 9. 
The tournament will be played on 
March 13 and 14.
IM Fencing 
Those interested in participat
ing in an intramural fencing 
tournament see Mr. Birdy in the 
IM Office.
Co-rec Badminton 
Couples interested in a bad
minton tournament must sign up 
in Room 104 of the Gym by March 
7. .
o LLeadr
Affenlion-Fatully, Students and Graduates
ASSOCIATION OF PRIVATE CAMPS
COMPRISING 250 outstanding Boys, Girls, BrotherSister and Co-ed camps, located throughout the New 
England States and Canada . . .
Invites your inquiries concerning summer employment 
as counsellors, instructors or administrators. Positions 
are available in all areas of camping activities for chil
dren.
WRITE: ASSOCIATION OF PRIVATE CAMPSDEPT. C 
55 West 42nd St., Room 743, New York 36, N. Y.
Of course. Most everyone does  
often. Because a few moments over 
ice-cold Coca-Cola refresh you so. 
Its sparkling with natural goodness, 
pure and wholesome  ^ 
naturally friendly to your figure. 
Feel like having a Coke?
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY It
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. 
5722 Central Ave. HI 1-7011
"Coke b 0 registered trade-mark. 1956. THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
interesting
careers
in
Many attractive openings 
are available in our 
modern research labora
tory for . . ./
f 4M
Mechanical Engineers 
Aeronautical Engineers 
Chemical Engineers 
Electrical Engineers 
Engineering Physicists 
Applied Mathematicians
INTERVIEWS:
Tues. & Wed., Mar. 13,14
See your College Placement Officer for an appointment and a copy 4 of our brochure.
VL
Research Department
UNIT'D AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
400 South Main Street.
East .Hartford 8, Connecticut

---------------------------------------------------

This Wednesday night will 
mark the final game of the 1955- 
56 season and also the final per
formance for four of the Tartans 
Ifcenior hoopsters. Jim Boyd, Dick 
Fieler, Ralph Mocker and Wayne 
Nathanson will be playing their 
last game for the Plaid when they 
face Penn State in the Skibo Gym.
Ralph Mocker 
Ralph Mocker has been a sure 
shot outside man for the Tartans 
varsity for three years. He has 
consistently managed to break in
to the double figures in scoring. 
He lacks a few inches in height 
but makes up for this in his tre
mendous jumping ability. Ralph 
has been the thorn in the side of 
many an opposing team. When he 
warms up that shooting eye of 
his, he can be a real threat to any 
team using the zone defense.
Dick Fieler 
Dick Fieler, who last year was 
mentioned to the second team of 
the All-District squad, has proved 
to be a real threat with his one 
hand push shot from anywhere 
on the floor. Like his running 
mate Ralph, Dick has a real tough 
shot from the field which has 
made the difference in Techs 
winning many games. Dick is also 
in the double figures after the
final score is put up and he has 
been a starter for the Skibo Quin
tet for the last two years.
Jim Boyd 
Jim Boyd has been the real 
work horse of the Tartans for the 
entire season. Although he has not
turned in the West scoring record, 
there is no doubt in the minds of 
both his fellow players and the 
fans that he has really been a 
work horse for the Plaid. Jim is 
the playmaker of the team and in 
many cases he will pass off to 
another player with a better shot 
rather than risk a poor shot him
self. Jim makes up in determina
tion what he lacks in height and 
as a fighting forward for the 
Tartans, many Tech fans have 
witnessed him gczng up with real 
giants and coming down with the 
ball.
Wayne Nathanson
Wayne Nathanson, who has 
seen limited action during the 
season, can always be counted on 
to play a cool game whenever 
called upon. Going in both as a 
forward and guard, Wayne has 
shown great ability to work at 
both positions and he can be 
counted on to push a few through 
the hoop to keep the Tartans in 
the game. During the season he 
has pulled the Tartans out of 
several hot spots to put them back 
in the running.
IM Wrestling
The intramural wrestling 
tournament will be held in 
Thistle Hall at 4:30 on Feb. 
29. All wrestlers should weigh 
in on that day and be ready to 
wrestle by 4:30.
IM Basketball
With three teams dropping from 
the undefeated ranks in the past 
week, five of the six basketball 
leagues contain only one unde
feated team. The only tie is in the 
Skibo League where DTD and the 
Englishmen are tied for top hon
ors, both remaining undefeated to 
date. Two of the teams falling 
from the undefeated ranks were 
the Vets Club and the Aces. The 
Grad Mesons topped the Vets Club 
36-31, while TX was whipping the 
Aces 54-47 in last weeks play. 
The third team suffering its first 
defeat was SNA who lost 50-30 
to a tough Tech Gems team.
In other games of the past week' 
the strong Rockets and ATOA 
teams continued their winning 
ways by rolling over AT00 and 
SNB by scores of 64-21 and 61- 
27 respectively. The only other 
first place team participating in 
last weeks games was the Tech 
Gems, who romped over pre-flously undefeated SNA 50-30.
The strange thing about this 
years basketball standings is that 
of the six leaguesfi four are le*fjP 
by independent teams.
Life Saving
A special course in Red 
Cress Life Saving and Water 
Safety will be offered by the 
mens physical education de
partment. Classes will be held 
every Tuesday, Thursday, and 
Friday from 4:30 to 6:00 p.m. 
starting Friday, March 2. Can
didates must attend all classes.
All male students interested 
sign up with Mr. Birdy in 
Room 104 of the Gym.
IT IS NEVER 
TOO LATE . . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
| ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES)
Campus Cleaners
Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, February 28, 1956
V OL .49N ftHdio O.. Wmtw-fclw. N.tfc
Senior Players 
In Final Game
When classes are through 
And your girls close to you 
Heres a good thing to dohave a CAMEL I
bure pleasure I
It's a psychological fact:
Pleasure helps your disposition.
If you're a smoker, remember
 more people get more 
pure pleasure from Camels 
than from any other cigarette!
No other cigarette is so 
rich-tasting, yet so mild !

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, February 28, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage 1
This page edited by Evening School Students cf the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ........................................................................... Emily Muliic
Reporter ........................................................... John Van Holt, Jr.
Sideline News V Views
Towards the close of last semester there was much talk and 
Httle action of the possibility of a bowling match between the day 
school and evening school Newman Club members with the ulti
mate winner challenging the Newman Club members of Pitt. At 
present no one has attempted to#--------------------------------------------------
start the ball rolling. Well, how 
about it Joe Bonk?
T V or not T V?
That is the question. As yet a 
definite answer to the possibility 
of procuring a television set for 
Carnegie Uriion is semi-negative, 
emi-positive and with the end re^iilt being a status quo or inde
cisive. The idea of a television 
set at the Union is not a new 
idea, but one that has been handled 
like a hot potato from one semes
ter to the next.
A workable plan towards such 
a project is as follows: (1) That 
the presidents of day and evening 
school student council plus fra
ternities and sororities set a date
iereby allrepresentatives of 
ese individual groups will form
ulate a program for donations on 
the project; (2) That other repre
sentative campus organizations 
such as Citcom, day and evening 
Newman Club, Alumni Associa
tion, and other interested students 
who are not members of any or
ganization actively take part in 
the formulation of planning of this 
campus wide project; (3) That a 
rail be taken by members of the 
Hirtan and Plaid staffs from the 
students as to their pleasure or 
displeasure of assisting in this 
project.
Well, there it is, for better or 
for worse.
Last Chance
Wednesday, I bruary 29 is the 
final day for evening students to 
add subjects to their present 
schedule if they feel that they 
]ove the time and the energy.
Theatre Activity
The drama departments pre
sentation of Shakespeares An
tony and Cleopatra promises to 
be the zenith of effort and Enter
tainment, surpassing other stellar 
performances presented by the 
drama department in the past.
The play is scheduled to run for
f
igma Delta Phi 
lects Officers 
For Spring Term
The regular monthly meeting of 
Sigma Delta Phi Fraternity was 
held on Sunday, February 12, 1956 
at the Carnegie Union.
An election of officers for the 
year starting March, 1956, and 
extending to March, 1957, was 
'Id. The new officers are: Ray 
Schwalm, president; Ed Daly, 
vice-president; Harry Thorn, sec
retary; Andrew Oravetz, treasurer; 
Ralph Czernac, social chairman; 
and Bob Shaffer, co-chairman. 
Plans were made for a bowling 
party that will be held sometime 
during the month of March.
The officers would like to re
mind all members that the yearly 
dues are now being collected. The 
iftpternity meets every second Sun
day of the month at 2:00 at the 
Carnegie Union and a better at
tendance at the meetings would 
be appreciated. The next meet
ing will be on March 11, 1956.
two weeks, beginning on March 3 
and closing on March 16. Matinees 
will be presented on March 7, 9, 
14, and 16. Tickets will be avail
able in the office of the Registrar 
of Evening Classes. Dont procras
tinate, make haste.
If you want to see how becom
ing an apron can be, drop around 
the kitchen of the Carnegie Union 
after Newman Club meeting and 
see the able-bodied men giving a 
helping hand. Thanks, fellows. 
Youre really swell.
Design Student 
Receives Aivard 
For Art Display
Many try but few succeed, so it 
is with great pleasure we write 
about a Tech student who is one 
of the youngest members to re
ceive a major award in the AssoDon Celender
First In Sculpture
ciated Artists Exhibit. Mr. Don 
Celender, a new member of the 
Association, won first prize in the 
sculpture division for his Wild
Council
There will be a Student 
Council meeting March 4, 
1956, at 2:00 p.m.
Boar. It is a rare occasion for 
a member to win a major prize 
the first year of entry.
Don was well known last year 
as.the evening massier (time re
corder) in the P & D office. He is 
a B-fstudent in his senior year 
of Day School. He is studying 
ceramics under the able supervi
sion of Mr. Wesley Mills. He is 
also art editor of the Thistle.
He studied and taught drawing 
and painting at St. Josephs Art 
School, Pittsburgh under the di
rection of Sister Juliatta and Mr. 
Sylvio Regutti. Anyone attending 
the eighteenth annual County Fair 
South Park last fall will re
member Lollipop Land in the 
childrens Fairyland. Don was the 
creator and builder responsible for 
that popular attraction.
He has designed several covers 
for the Steel, Ballet Maga
zine, and others. He executed 
several murals and sculpture 
pieces for various churches and 
business firms. He is at present 
teaching an adult class in ceramics 
at Kingsley House, East Liberty.
We of the Plaid wish Don con
tinued success in his chosen field 
of life.
Prominent Priest 
At Newman Club 
In Lenten Series
On Sunday evening, February 
19, 1956, the Newman Club met 
at the Carnegie Union. The session 
was opened by Vice-President Do
lores Neff, in the absence of Presi
dent John Van Holt, whose grand
mother is quite ill. Miss Neff ex
tended greetings to all present and 
introduced Father Louis Neni, 
Chancery Office and Chaplain at 
Mount Mercy College. Father Neni 
spoke on Confession and com
pared the priest with father, doc
tor, teacher, and judge. After his 
talk there was an open discussion 
on the subject.
| Father J. Regis Berkmyre, Chap.
: lain of the Newman Club, joined 
1 the group later in the evening, 
j There were quite a few new 
1 members present, and during the 
coffee session a group was seen 
reminiscing over a 1946 copy of 
the Thistle. Another group 
from Belgium and Germany was 
busy comparing notes about the 
religious life in those countries in 
Europe.
The next meeting will be held 
at 7:30 Sunday evening, February 
26, 1956, and the main speaker w?ill 
be Father Raymond G. Getty, as
sistant at Saint James Church, 
Sewickley.
Dont write home for moneywrite Lucky Droodles!
fhp. easiest
yu IIever make!
A raft of students have already earned $25 in Lucky Strikes 
Droodle drive. By June, hundreds more will. Better get with it. 
Its like taking candy from a baby.
Do as many Droodles as you want. Send them, complete with 
titles, to Lucky Droodle, Box 67A, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Include your 
name, address, college, and classand the name and address of the 
dealer in your college town from whom you most often buy cigarettes.
If we select your Droodle, well pay $25 for the right to use it, 
with your name, in our advertising. And we pay for a lot of Droodles 
that never appear in print! Talk about easy money! This is it!
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
ON
Sam
& M
CENTIPEDE 
DOING CARTWHCIL
Warren Swenson 
Gonzaga
roAsrt*
77* Letter;
jo*#**
Neivman Club
Newman Club will meet 
March 4, 1956, at 7:30 p.m. 
Wr. Crowley of Duquesne Uni
versity will speak on Chris
tian Art Appreciation.
A.T. Co. product or iJvticcxt-cnyian americai leading manufacturerOF CIGARSTT1

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, February 28. 195S
Carnival Booths
All organizations interested 
in having a booth on the Mid
way for Spring Carnival must 
send two representatives to a 
meeting on February 29 at 
4:30 in the Dorm Council Room 
of Morewood. Representatives 
should contact Barbara Kerr, 
Midway chairman.
Conference
[Continued from page 1] 
terested or not. It was stated that 
the commuters inteiested in cam
pus activities would be represent
ed through that activity and 
through their department in the 
Student Council. Suggestions were 
made to have special elections for 
commuters to elect their repre
sentatives to the Student Council.
How to make proportional re
presentation a success is another 
problem. It was suggested that 
each department would have re
presentation according to the size 
of the department, but this would 
not necessarily insure a propor
tional commuter representation as 
special commuter elections would. 
It was suggested by one of the 
faculty that all reference to com
muters be left out of the constitu
tion for consideration later, Theo
retically this might inspire the 
commuters to unite and form a 
powerful enough group to war
rant the representation the coun
cil would be willing to give them.
Representation Discussed
The second problem discussed 
was that of the basis of represen
tation. It was immediately clari
fied that the Legislature would be 
made up of representatives elect
ed from the various dorms, frater
nities, and departments of the 
school.
It was stated that the heads of 
the different power groups on 
campus would form the executive 
body, as these heads were in the 
position to carry out the laws 
made by the Legislative most 
effectively over the entire campus. 
This particular body is not sup
posed to be a popular representa
tion. It was suggested that the 
scholastic honoraries and the de
partmental clubs were not pow
er groups and should not nec
essarily be represented in this 
case.
Judicial Powers
The third large concern of the 
Conference was the power that 
should be granted to the Judic
iary. The controversial issue had 
to do with powers under the Judi
cial Branch. In the case of or
ganizations, the court, if it finds 
an organization guilty, may re
voke the organizations charter or 
suspend this charter for a time 
prescribed by the court. This 
would include fraternities and so
rorities as well as any other or
ganization.
The arguments which arose 
concerned the right of the Stu
dent ouncil to revoke charters 
which it does not have the power 
in the first place to create. It was 
suggested that the Council might 
have the power to suspend a 
charter, but that it have only the 
power to recommend to the ad
ministration that a charter be re
voked. It was felt by some that 
the administration would have a 
more mature approach to such a 
serious problem and it would be 
best that the final responsibility 
in this case should rest in the 
hands of more capable people.
There were no definite solutions j 
reached at the end of the third 
leaders conference, but it is up to ; 
the power of the present Student 
Council and the students of Tech 
to make the proposed constitution 
with the suggested revisions sue; 
cessfui.
tContinued from page 1]
.... David KraiovilConductor 
The Bells of St. Marys 
The Cossacks
Alpha Tau Omega....................
.........John KestnerConductor
Po OI Laz Rus,
Shenandoah
Intermission
Alpha Epsilon Phi ....................
.... Marcia KaplanConductor 
Oh, DearWhat Can the 
Matter Be 
The Lord Bless You and Keep 
You
Kappa Sigma................................
.... Marilyn JakubConductor 
Seeing Nellie Home 
May Now Thy Spirit
Phi Kappa ................................
Edmund LadouceurConductor 
Seeing Nellie Home 
Nobody Knows the Trouble
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
I've Seen
Sigma Kappa............................
.......Lynn RushtonConductor
Blue Moon 
The Lilac Tree
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ................
.........Roger PierceConductor
My Bonnie Lassie 
Loch Lomond
Delta Tau Delta .......................
.... Jack Sweeney-v-Conductor 
Street Urchins Medly 
Delta Shelter
Intermission
Delta Gamma............................
........... Anne ElderConductor
In These Delightful Pleasant 
Groves 
Madame Jeanette
Sigma Nu.................................
.... Burke CaldwellConductor 
Steal Away 
Ride the Chariot
Kappa Kappa Gamma..............
............Jan JerlesConductor
Wind from the Sea
STUDENTS! FACULTY MEMBERS!Fantastic Discounts
And trade ins given on new 1956 Fords and used cars 
of every make, to faculty members and students of 
C.I.T.
See: Wally Donoghue, MU 3-0242 
103 Welch Hall, Box 337 C.I.T.
Don't Buy Till You See Wally!
Tell Your Friends About This Amazing Offer
Story of a Tack
Beta Sigma Rho.......................
............Eli RonnelConductor
When Johnny Comes 
Marching Home 
Trees
Chi Omega...............................
...........Lou HerbstConductor
The Kerry Dancers 
In Silent Night
Delta Upsilon..........................
...... Hugh YoungConductor
Im A Wandrin
John Peel
Schweikher
[Continued from page 1] 
Schweikher will bring new dis
tinction and design impetus to the 
Carnegie department of architec
ture, commented Norman L. Rice, 
dean of the College of Fine Arts. 
Under his leadership, I foresee a
continuing concern at Carnegie for 
the best values in architecture and 
a creative approach to the complex 
educational problems in this im
portant professional area.
Professor Schweikher will as
sume his new duties at Tech on 
July 1, 1956.
[Continued from page 3]
cussed but nox erecided upon on 
Monday. That they be fairly re
presentative of the general stu
dent view, and that they be com
petent at carrying the information 
to the students is fairly essential. 
The UAC adjourned to think 
the problem out, and to meet 
unofficially to discuss propose 
to be presented to the administr^ 
tion for study. Since it is a matter 
of general interest, ideas are wel
come from the student body.
Satisfy Yourself with a Milder. Better-Tasting smoke 
packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray
The more perfectly packed your 
cigarette, the more pleasure it 
gives . . . and Accu-Ray packs 
Chesterfield far more perfectly.
To the touch ... to the taste,
an Accu-Ray Chesterfield satis. .. mild yet deeply satisfying to 
fies the most... burns more the taste  Chesterfield alone is 
evenly, smokes much smoother, pleasure-packed by Accu-Ray.210%.046H0AM
MILD, YET 
THEY
 licon * Mr ou Oneofn Cft
