BE SUEE TO GET 
j YOUR JUNIOR PROM
! PRELIM. THIS WEEK
LAST SALE OF THISTLE 
SUBSCRIPTIONS TO 
TAKE PLACE JAN. 8 TO 12
VOL. XVII. NO. 15CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1923
NELSON-MAPLE 
ORCHESTRA AT 
JUNIOR PROM
+ * + + + + + + +
I *i*v*
MUSICAL CLUBS SCHEDULE * 
v TO BE ANNOUNCED AT THE.-:- 
-:- REHEARSAL, JANUARY 14 -1-
Get Your Ticket This Week. 
Over Hundred Tickets Sold. 
Dancing Will Last Till 2 
oclock After Dinner
PRICE TO BE $8.50
The Junior Prom Committee has 
secured the services of thfe NelsonMaple Orchestra for the annual hall. 
The orchestra consists of ten music
ians and is rated as one of the best 
in the East. Tlie organization has 
been on the road for the past five 
seasons and from the start has been 
an unquaJified success.
Many Carnegie Tech students heard 
the Nelson-Maple outfit while at 
State College and all have been loud 
in their praises of the music. Sev 
eral suggested at that time that they 
bte secured for the Junior Brora and 
the contract was closed last week. 
The committee is confident that no 
better orchestra can be secured and 
believes that everyone will be more 
than satisfied.
Over one hundred preliminary 
tickets for the Junior Prom were 
sold last week to the student body. 
That leaves one hundred and fifty to 
be disposed of on the campus. When 
the student quota of two hundred 
and fifty tickets has been sold the 
sale will be stopped. This informa; 
tion should be remembered. Get your 
preliminary ticket at once. Another 
week like last week will mean that 
all who have not purchased tickets 
will be unable to do so. Positively 
no tickets will be sold at the door.
The menu has been decided upon 
and the dinner will be served be 
tween the hours of midnight and 
one. Dancing will then be resumed 
and will continue until 2:00 a. m.
The ifavors have not been definitely 
ordered as yet, but the designs under 
consideration have been causing con
siderable debate. Both of the favors 
in question are exquisite and either 
would be fitting for the occasion.
The decorations and the design of 
the program have been placed in the 
care of Vincent Roy. The program 
design has been decided upon; the 
decorations are being planned.
A list of the patrons and patron(Continued on Page Two.)
* Next Sunday, at rehearsal, Mr. * 
*!? Riehl, director of the Mens Glee *
* Club, will make a formal anv nouncement of the Musical Clubs v 
-Ischedule for the coming season. * 
v The members of the dubs v 
who are to go on these trips * 
*> will be picked at next Sun-Idays rehearsal and every mem?
* ber of the clubs is urged to be *
-I* there. v
SOPHS-PLEBES 
SIGN TRUCE FOR 
PLEBE BANQUET
Sophs Play Safe By Capturing 
and Holding Plebe Presi
dents Over Week-End to 
Prevent Appearance at 
Plebe Banquet
ARTS BALL TITLED 
KAPERS AT KARNAK
Unique Egyptian Costumes 
and Decorations Will Fea
ture Annual Ball
Sophomores to Hold 
Hop in Arts Foyer
Show With All-Star Cast 
Being Arranged
Plans for the Sophomore Hop are 
well under way, and Chairman Ed. 
Good reports that it will surpass all 
others. The social committee of va
rious schools are pulling together to 
make the hop a big event and to make 
it the best ever held on the campus. 
This year it is to be held in the Foyer 
of College of Fine Arts, and it is 
hoped that the authorities will per
mit the committee to produce a the
atrical performance in the Little 
Theater. If this project goes through, 
a novel entertainment will be fur
nished in the form of a musical corm 
edy with two big acts and ten scenes. 
At any rate, the show will be pro
duced, but if the theater is not avail
able, plans have been made to put it 
on in the Exhibition Room.
Various committees have been ap
pointed by Chairman . Good, to take 
care of the features. The refreshments 
are to be taken care of by Miss Da
vis. The music is in charge of H. N. 
Smith, and he promises a good orch
estra. The hall is to be decorated 
under the auspices of Miss Moaner 
and H. N. Smith, and will rival the 
Aits Bajll tin this respect. Harry! 
Hamilton and L. H. Harris are work
ing on the play and have asked Mr. 
Vieliman to supervise the work of 
production. An all-star cast is being 
selected for the show, and it will add 
lustre to the evening.
The committee has not set a price 
for the event, but the date has been 
announced as March 9. The hop will 
be scheduled from nine to one, but 
these hours are merely tentative, for 
it may be extended until two oclock. 
The further developments of the 
plans will be published weekly, and 
will contain interesting material. 
Read this news and send in sugges
tions to the Tartan Office, in-care of 
the Soph Hop Committee.
Many Organizations Owe 
For Thistle Pictures
Bills have been sent to the various 
fraternities, organizations, and groups 
that are to have their picture in the 
1923 Thistle. As an inducement for 
payment before January 15, a flat 
rate of $25.00 has been made to all 
fraternities and sororities. This in
cludes two pages, the fraternity cut, 
and the house cut. Honorary frater
nities, clubs, dorm, and organiza
tions having one page, $15.00. This 
rate is made possible by paying the 
engraver on the 15th. However, an 
(Continued on Page. Two.)
Kapers at Karnak. Such is the 
title of the annual costume ball of 
the College of Fine Arts which will 
be held in the Arts Foyer on Friday, 
February 9, 1923, 9 p. m. to 4 a. m. 
The ball this year will portray that 
period of history in which ancient 
Egypt was at the height of its pow
er and glory. The Arts Building will 
be appropriately decorated for the 
occasion.
The Egyptian costumes offer a very 
wide range and can include those of 
the gods, pharaohs, princes and 
princesses, soldiers, slaves and danc
ing girls. Costumes of Europe, or 
modern Egyptian and Oriental cos
tumes are not permitted. Modern 
Shieks are absolutely prohibited.
Masks must be worn 'til twelve 
oclock and can be procured that 
night at the door. During the first 
part of the evening the twenty best 
costumes will be tagged by a facultycommittee and will appear on the 
stage in the Little Theater. Suitable 
prizes will be awarded for the best 
costumes.
Dancing will start at nine oclock 
and continue until twelve, when ad
journment will be made to the Little 
Theater for the entertainment. Danc
ing will start again at one and con
tinue until four. Supper will be 
served in the small library from one 
til three.
Any day or night student who is 
registered in the. College of Fine 
Arts for the year 1922-23 is eligible, 
All graduates and former students 
of the College of Fine Arts who are 
also paid-up members of the Alumni 
Association are eligible.
Any eligible married person is per
mitted to bring husband or wife. Un
married faeully members will be giv
en a pass for themselves and one 
guest of the opposite sex. Men will 
not be allowed to stag.
Admission fees will be as follows: 
Students (school dues) ?2.50 per 
pass; faculty .$3.00 per pass; alumni, 
$4.00 per pass. Every student is re
quested to pay for his or her own 
pass.
The following committees are in 
charge:
General CommitteeChairman, Carl 
Landefeld; assistant chairman, Rich
ard Reed; secretary, P. Hoffer Sload; 
treasurer, Earl Gross; assistant treas
urer, V. Roy.
Decoration Committee  'Chairman, 
Teasdale Barney; assistant chair(Continued on Page Four.)
ALPHA KAPPA PSI WILL
HOLD BENEFIT DANCE IN
ONION FRIDAY EVENING
i The annual scholarship dance given 
{ by the Alpha Kappa Psi sorority will 
j be held Friday evening, January 12, 
in tho Union..
The dance last year was given at 
the Rittenhouse, 'but this year it was 
decided that in order to make it a 
more Carnegie Tech affair it would 
be held in the Union.
Proceeds will be given to the 
Scholarship Committee of tho school 
and will be awarded to a student for 
the next school year. Music will be 
furnished by the Black Imps.
TRUCE NOW IN EFFECT
KDKA Will Broadcast 
C. I. T. Basket Ball Games
Hereafter, all Carnegie varsity bas
ket ball games played in Pittsburgh 
will be broadcasted by quarters. This 
arrangement-came as the result of a 
suggestion by Mr. Boyd, who very 
kindly offered to broadcast the Car
negie game3 through KDKA, of which 
Mr. Boyd is manager. Mr. Boyd has 
made similar arrangements with the 
University of Pittsburgh authorities 
and wished to do the same for the 
Plaid.
The chief purpose of the plan is to 
help the alumni to keep in touch with 
their Alma Mater; it will also serve 
to spread the fame of Carnegie Tech.
Mr. Boyles kindness is greatly ap
preciated, especially since the above 
arrangement was entirely due to his 
voluntary suggestion.
Another attraction which should 
draw the boys by the hundreds, is that 
some of the girls are going to sell cig
arettes and candy at future contests. 
Interest in basket ball should show 
some increase, with such induce
ments.
TEA DANCE FRIDAY TO BE
UNDER AUSPICES OF R. O. T. C.
Departing from the custom of the 
past few years for raising money for 
the Thistle Pictures, the R. O. T. C. 
is giving a Tea Dance in the Union 
Friday, January 12, in order to meeji 
this demand. For the past two years 
the money has been raised by taxing 
each member of the organization a 
certain amount, and there was noth
ing given in return. This year, the 
plan having been sanctioned by Lt. 
Col. Cunningham, a Tea Dance will 
afford pleasure for the members who 
come, and for all others who care to 
attend, and at the same time will 
enable tbs bill for the Thistle to bemet. The music will be furnished by 
the Black Imps, and the admission is 
the same as for all Tea Dances, Men, 
twenty-five cents; Ladies, encouraged.
We the undersigned, as represen
tatives of the Sophomore Class of the 
Carnegie Institute of Tecliuology, do 
hereby offer the following proposi
tion to the three Presidents of the 
Freshman Class. This offer is made 
under the realization that it will 
place a severe handicap on the stu
dents involved unless some action ia 
taken so that the scholastic standing 
is not interfered with.
A. S! ANDREWS,
M. SCRIMGEOUR,
W. GIBSON,
R. W. BEARDSLEE, 
The proposition is:
We, the Presidents of the Fresh
man Class do hereby agree to attend 
all regular scheduled classes from 
this date on through the day of the 
holding of the banquets of our re
spective classes. In return we are 
to be set free by the Sophomore 
Class within one hour from the sign
ing of this agreement, and we shall 
not be molested by the  Sophomore 
Class during any of our regular 
class periods stated above.
EARL WHEELER, 
President Arts Fresh.
ROBERT BELL, 
President Industries Fresh.
ERWIN MILLS, 
President Science Fresh. 
After a week of activity on the 
part of both Sophs and Plebes the 
above Armistice was signed to take 
effect at one-thirty last Saturday and 
to continue until 4:30 every Friday 
night until the day of the Plebe ban
quet. According to tho rules of tho 
Student Council the banquet must be 
held within the next three weeks, so 
that undoubtedly there is going to be 
some Plebe^Sopli mixups on the next 
few Fridays on the ringing of tlie 
4:20 gongs. This will entirely elim
inate tlie cutting of classes by the 
Plebe presidents the few days before 
the banquet.
The general belief on the campus 
was that the banquet would be held 
last Friday as it will unquestionably 
have a had effect scholastically to 
put the affair off till a time so near 
(Continued on Page Four.)
FOUR COLLEGES TO 
BE MET IN DEBATE
THISTLE STAFF 
.ANNOUNCES 
FINAL SALES
January 12 is Last Date on 
Which a Thistle May Be 
SecuredAll Material For 
Publication Ready By Feb. 1
SUPPORT IS NEEDED
Negotiations With Pitt Are 
Under Way. Questions 
Are Announced
MUSICAL CLUB DANCE 
TO BE HELD SAT. NIGHT
On Saturday evening, January thir
teenth, the Carnegie Union will be 
the scene of the Musical Clubs annual 
dance. The affair is booked as not 
only a dance, but an entertainment 
as well. In other words, many littlo 
surprises will be sprung on tlie dan
cers gathered together for the even
ing, in the nature of musical hits from 
Broadway. Bill Reilly will pull a skit 
"Come Back to Erin With Whiskers. 
Four odd-shaped warblers will also 
give their version of singingit is 
hinted that they're pretty good.
The music will be furnished by Har(Continued on Page Two.)
The Carnegie Tech Debating Team 
has been making rapid strides to
wards developing a strong team for 
this year. The latest news from the 
association shows that a good sched
ule is arranged for this year and will 
require the best that our Carnegie 
representatives can give.
The schedule, as arranged so far, 
includes a double debate with Grove 
City and Geneva on February 23. 
The question to be debated in the 
Pentangular debate between the 
above-mentioned Grove City and Ge
neva, and later with Thiel and West
minster, is, Resolved that the 
United States should adopt the Cabi
net Parliamentary system of govern
ment.
The other two colleges, Thiel and 
Westminster will be met on either 
March 2 or March 4, the definite 
date to be announced later.
The secretary of tho Debating As 
sociation has communication from 
the Pitt Debating Team, asking ior 
a date later in the season. The ques
tion they wish to debate is that of 
the Kansas Court, and, if Carnegie 
should consent to debate this ques
tion, would prove quite interesting. 
Whether we will debate Pitt will bo 
decided at the next mooting of tho 
association, Thursday t at 8:00 p. m 
in tho "Y Club Room.
At this next mooting, tomorrow 
night, it is urged that all members 
make a special attempt to bo proseat. Som(\' Wy interesting nows 
will be furnished by tho president, 
W. J. Reilly, besides important dlacussion on our proposed dobnte. Now 
men are always welcome.
Annual Electrical Smoker 
Scheduled For Next Week
SENIOR MINING ENGINEERS I
VISIT INLAND COLLERIES CO.
On last Friday afternoon the Senior 
Mining Engineers and the two year 
coal miners made an inspection trip 
to the Inland Collieries Company, Indianola, Pa. This trip wras made by 
truck, and the twenty-five men who 
went had a good time on both the go
ing and return trips. On arriving at 
the mine the superintendent took 
charge of the men and personally con
ducted them on th trip in the mine 
and afterwards through the tipple, 
hoist house and the other surface 
equipment.
There are three graduates from last 
(Continued on Page Three)
New Y. M. C. A. Club Room 
Open in Scobell Hall
A club room for the dormitory resi
dents has been opened in the base
ment of Scobell Hall and has been 
placed in the hands of the Y. M. C. 
A. for administrational purposes. In
The second annual smokor of the 
Electrical Departments of the Col
leges of Industries and of Engineer
ing will be hold on Thursday, Jan
uary 18, In tho main oloolrical labor
atory of the 'College of Enginoeiihg, 
Machinery Hall.
If you are electrical in Engineering 
or in Industries, remember this dato 
and lio'ld It sacred forthe electrical 
smoker. To thoso BESUT attondod tho 
affair held last year, no word of en
couragement to attend is necessary, 
for tne momories of that smokor and 
of tho events of that evening still 
linger iu their minds.
As before, the price of the tickets 
will be twenty-five cents, and tlie
Lags wilL be on sale within a day or
so. The master of ceremonies lias
not yet been selected, but will be a 
member of the faculty eminently fit
ted foil this post. There will be
stunts, music, movies, the first orig
inal showing of Eva Fays only rival, 
and other acts which cannot be men
tioned at this time, owing to the 
furore they: would create if made 
known before the fatal day. Last 
but not least there will be the eats, 
to top off an evening of such great 
good sport that no electrical can 
afford to do himself such an injus
tice as to stay away.
Thistle board announces that tho 
final chauce to secure the Thistle" 
Is at hand. All material must be 
taken to press by the first of Febru
ary, and absolutely all subscriptions 
must be taken by that time. From 
January S until January 12, thore will 
be a subscription campaign held in 
all four schools.
The object of the book is the com
pilation of facts about the campus, 
giving the tangible evidence of for
mer associations and personal experi
ences by making a picture-book of 
individuals, groups, classes, and 
scenes about the campus and through
out the entire college.
These pictures furnish the main 
thread of interest for the graduate. 
1-Ie turns to them frequently to recall 
his former associations, and points 
with pride to tho pictures of himself 
and his activities, or those of his 
friends, in the Thistle.
The hardest work in almost any 
student activity, comes to those who 
are putting out tho Thistle. In tho 
first place, they must persuade the 
student to purchase ono, when it is 
really for the benefit of the studont 
himself. Then money must be raised 
through advertising, selling of space 
to fraternities and sororities, and tlio 
enormous bills from the printer must 
bo met. But those are only tho dillleultios facing one part of tho staff, 
the managerial;. The editor (must 
compile facts about tho college, got 
ting reluctant professors to liavo their 
pictures taken, and getting the slower 
students to make tlio date with tho 
camera man. All of which Is no easy 
task, and it must bo done efficiently 
and quietly, without tho peoplo doing 
it getting anything but "kicks and 
the satisfaction of doing a good work 
woll.
Studonts owe it to themselves to 
got a T.liistlc, and to loncl a hand In 
tho arduous task of putting out an an
nual that is truly roprosontatlvo of 
the ontiro school.
This week is your last chance to 
hand in your subscription. Clot bohind tho Junior Class In putting out 
their biggotft achlovoni.out for tho 
year; got your Thistle reservation 
today.
I* JUNIATA COLLEGE TAKES v 
*lDATE HELD FOR BUCKNELL *
*   *
? Manager Sidney Keller wishes v 
J* to announco a change in the
J* basket ball schedule. The Car? negie cagors will journey to .lu!* 
2* ni al a Colloge on February 15, *!* 
:* to tackle tho court artists of
? that institution. This date was
I* originally reserved ror Bucknell, ?!* 
:* and was recently shifted to Juv 
* niata.
?
OHIO SENATOR 
TO SPEAK AT 
GEN. ASSEMBLY
CRITICISMS ASKED 
ON NEW COMMONS
Daily Increase in Patronage 
Noted Under New Man
agement
A,I.E.E.TO SEE FILMS AND 
HEAR TALK ON METERING
Local Men Contributors 
to Next Technical Journal
order that it may ibe properly super
vised, a club room committee has 
been selected from the ranks of the 
dormites and now consists of 
Messrs. Cummins, Carl, Damon, Wil
cox and Workman, who will be re
sponsible for the proper mainten
ance and upkeep of the club room.
The room is well fitted for its pur
pose having been newly cleaned up 
and painted and is in addition, large, 
light and well furnished. The school 
lias donated the furniturechairs, 
tables and a piano, while pictures 
have been loaned by the College of 
Fine Arts. Tlie ladies of the Twen
tieth Century Club have generously 
promised 'four large rugs, and Dean 
Tarbell has furnished the material 
for curtains which Miss Johnson 
(Continued on Page Two.)
The Carnegie Technical Journal, 
for the first time in history, is 
swamped with articles and material 
for articles. Our journal is now on 
a par with most of the professional 
journals, both qualitatively and quan
titatively and should in several more 
years be well known to the public.
Articles describing original works 
on isotopes, silvering of mirrors, 
conservation of textiles and applica
tions of oxidized petroleum hydrocar
bons are contributed respectively by 
Messrs. Nathanson, Carter, Wakefield 
and James. Discussions on patents 
by E. A. Lawrence, Pittsburgh Pat
ent Attorney, and tests on clay and 
standstone preliminary to building 
tho Nebraska State Capitol by H. A, 
Baugh are on. hand, and Professor 
Trinks mentions technical literature.
Tho Technical Journal will be is
sued near the end of the month, 
probably with its new cover.
CHAPEL CHIMES
On Thurslay, .fanuary 11, 1928, tho
A. 1. E. E. will hold tho first mooting 
of the now yoar at Room 218, Science. 
A good program has boon arranged 
and tho time of mooting has boon 
sot Tor 7:30 p. in. As a preliminary 
to tho big program, a film will bo 
shown dealing with tho construction 
and maintenance of dry colls. Tills 
is of special importance to thoso in
terested in Elootro-ch,omlstry. Tho 
spoaker of the evening Is Mr. Thomas 
Pltzer of tho Wost Penn Power Com
pany of tills city. Mr. Pltzer has 
been with the company for almost ton 
years and is now superintendent of 
"Meters. Consequently Mr. Pltzer, who 
by tho way Is a graduate of Wost Vir
ginia University, Is peculiarly quali
fied to speaic on tho topic which he 
has selected, namely MeterB and Me
tering. In connection with this ad
dress three reels of film will be shown 
dealing with the construction and 
operation of meters of all kinds used 
in electric work. These films have 
been prepared by the Sangamo Elec
tric Company of Springfield, 111., in 
conjunction with the United States 
Department of Commerce.
The meeting is open to anyone in
terested in the subject matter. Due 
to the big program the preliminary 
film will start exactly at 7:30 and 
everyone is requested to be on hand 
at this hour.
The management of the new Car
negie Commons is anxious for criti
cisms from the student body. Like
wise they are anxious to know what 
parts of tho service are most pleasing, 
for ity is through careful study of 
these student ideas that work for 
thoir benefit can bo further accom
plished.
After throe days of operation, the 
Carnegie Commons, in the oyos of 
students who have patronized it, has 
completely vindicated itself. The old 
beanery is now only a matter of un
pleasant memories. In every way im
provements have been noted by the 
studonts eating there. The change In 
appearance was a most pleasant sur
prise. Everybody likes to have his 
meals amid attractive surroundings. 
Tho liomoliko meals brought back 
pleasant memories of tho enjoyable 
Christmas holidays just past. Tho 
customary transition from homocooked to restaurant-cooked meals 
was not necessary, because tho Carnoglo Commons under dlroctlon of 
Miss Woodward and Miss Smith spe
cializes In homo cooking.
Tlio operation by tho school, undor 
direction and. supervision of two 
women: ol' experience, and for tho 
good of tho studonts, is just that 
which was nocessary lo make tho Curnoglo Commons a success.
Tho changos already notod woro Im
portant In tho successful start,, but, 
those things now bolng accomplished, 
tho support ol' tho students will ho 
needed more and morel Tne groat Inoroaso In patronage oacli day Is a 
good indication of tlio future growth.
From time to tlmo Improvements 
will bo mado In all branches, each of 
which Is expoetod will make tho Cur
nogio Commons moro attractive to tho 
studonts. As said before, lt is the 
ultlmato hope of the schools to make 
this plaoo a place for gathorlng for 
the studonts after meals whore pleas
ant conversations and discussions can 
bo hold In studont groups.
Dr. Simeon D. Fess, SenatorElect From Ohio Features 
Todays Assembly  Foot
ball Men to Receive Awards
NO STUDENT PARADE
Dr. iSimeon D. Fess, senator-elect 
from Olilo, will speak today in Gen
eral Assembly at the Music Hall. Also 
the awards to the members of tho 
football team will be presented at 
this meeting and there will bo music 
by the musical clubs.
BHARAT SOCIETY MEET8
NEXT SATURDAY NIQHT
Tho regular monthly mooting of tho 
Bharat Society (Hindu Students) will 
I'-- liHd (in M;il,unlay, .lanuary I::. I!'::::, 
In Room 1240 Industries Building, at 
8 p. m.
Mr, Muss ol! tho faculty will talk on 
Amorican Citizenship and Its 
Rights."
Your prosenoo, with friends will be 
very much appreciated.
Dr. B F. Farber of the Sixth Pres
byterian Church, will speak at tho 
chapel services tomorrow noon. Ho 
is well known by the students and 
being a good speaker, should attract 
a large audience!.
Acting-Pres. Baker Speaks 
At Night School Banquet
On Saturday evening over one hun
dred fellows gathered in the Hotel 
Chatham for the banquet of the night 
students from the College of Engi
neering.
The affair this year surpassed 
those of former years in many ways. 
First, there were a very large num
ber of first-year men present. Tills is 
indeed a fine thing, for the men in the 
first two years are numerically strong 
and if they get behind the school 
functions like they have tho banquet, 
lt will make things hum.. The meal 
was excellent and as to entertain
ment the committee certainly dollvorod tho goods. Paper, hats added 
quite a bit to tho decorative scheme 
and seemed to stir up a good bit of 
merry-making.
Acting Pres. Baker, Director Mott 
and many of tho departmental heads 
wero present. They all gave very in
teresting talks and extended their 
best wishes for the coming year. The 
committee in charge is deserving of 
praise for the way they put things 
across.
Job Printing Discontinued 
By Members of Graphica
Job printing work which was bolng 
done by tho Graphica In the Printing 
Department has been discontinued be
cause of the great amount of time 
required to do the work. This action 
was taken at the last meeting bofore 
tho holidays.
The Graphica made a profit of about 
$125.00 on the work produced during 
the fall by the production staff. This 
enterprise was run exactly as a reg
ular commercial printing plant is run. 
The students who did the work on the 
job were paid a percentage of tho cost 
of the job, and the superintendents 
received a percentage of the total 
amount of business done by the staff, 
fContinued nn Page Thrpe \
DR. SIMEON D. FESS
Dr. Foss has boon a member of 
Congress since 1918; in his first term 
ho represented tho Sixth Ohio Dis
trict, and for tho past olght years 
has represented tho Seven th District. 
Last November ho was olocted to the 
U. S. Somite. Ho Is ono of tho load
ers of tho Republican party' In na
tional affairs. Sluco 1018, ho has 
served as ohnlrmnn of the Commit* 
too'on induca lion in the J louse and' 
as chairman of tho Republican Na
tional Congressional Campaign. Tho 
(Continued on Pago Throe.)
Dir. Bossange Answers 
Comments On Tickets
Welcomes Suggestions From 
Students
A criticism has appeared In the 
Tartan concerning tho distribution of 
tickets for the plays given by tho 
Drama Department. The writer way 
ovldontly not awaro of the system 
followed In giving out tho tickets. 
Five or six performances are given 
of each play. Tlckots for one or moro 
of these performances are always sot 
aside for the studont body. In caso 
of great Interest on the part of tho 
students, additional performances am 
arranged when possible, Tlio date of 
the studont performance Is announced 
beforehand and the tlckots are given 
outfirst come, first servedwithout 
regard to college, class or any other 
distinction. In addition to the regu
lar student performance, when tho 
length of tho play makes It possible, 
we have a matinee on Friday after
noon, and studontB and their friends 
are admitted without tickets. As 
some people who ask for tickets fail 
to use them, we allow those who 
stand in line to fill any seats remain
ing vacant after 8:15. Students there
fore have three opportunities for com
ing to our playsfirst, the student 
performances; second,- the Friday af
ternoon matinees; third, admission af
ter 8:15.
Tickets for the other performances 
are sent to the trustees, administra
tion, faculty, and Lo all those who 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Architects Ennui Put to Rout 
By Thrilling Peanut Snapping Bout
By T. S. Repplier.
(Copyright, 1492, by C. Columbus) 
No longer is the dark haired Skeilc 
of the bobbed locks the reigning hero 
of the College of Fine Arts,another 
has arisen to take his place. No 
more is the question of the hour 
'Whos got a comb? but Instead 
How many can you snap? The 
King Is dead, long live tho king!
Architectural Ingenuity.
You see, It was this way. Thoso 
giant Intellect which common men 
call, tho architects wero bored. Yosslr, dosplto tea dances* and. matri
monial courses (seo series IV) tho 
gonticinon who Inhabit tho third floor 
front wero suffering from ennui and I 
craved excitement. Being essentially 
of a sporting disposition, what could 
bo more natural and stimulating that 
a match should be arranged between 
local enthusiasts in a terrible gamo 
of, say tiddledewinks. Yessir, the 
architects were feeling mean and | 
craved bloodshed!
But at length somebody came along
with the idea that beat the tiddle and 
winkj proposition all hollow. Why 
not match a couple of first class pea
nut snappers and let them fight It out 
to a finish? Nothing brutal, you un
derstand, merely a gentlemanly con
test, and may the best man win! At 
once tho entire drafting room was 
galvanized Into action, and tho Pride 
of Kentucky was picked to battle 
Young Kid O'Brlon, Dosplto tho as
sumed psuodonyms, tho pair wore In
timately known to their closo friends 
and tho attending reporters as Mac 
McGervoy and Tlody Patterson. A 
manager was chosen by each or tho 
contestants, and preliminary dicker
ing resulted In a settlement by which 
the loser was to stand the loss in
curred in tho consumption of peanuts 
by both victor and vanquished; A 
reforeo was appointed' and a standard 
set for the peanuts to be utfed, only 
3/4 by 3/10 Planters Peanuts were 
judged to be official. As the grand 
day of the first match approached, 
(Continued on Page Four)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1923
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under tlio uporvlHlon of the Student Activities Board.___________
Entered In the Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST ..................................................................... Editor-In-Chief
TelephoneHilan d 858.
H. D. SONNEMANN.............................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchonloy 9211 , :
EDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchonloy 0143 .
KENNETH ARNOLD.................................................................... .... Assodato Editor/'11
H. F. SIMPSON .............................................................................. ........ Associato Editor ; od as to the facts.
COMMENTS
Pittsburgh, Pa., Dee. 30, 1922. 
Editor of the Tartan:
Dear Sir:It was indeed amusing 
to read the editorial in the Issue just 
preceding vacation about the students 
overlooking the opportunity of seeing 
the lino plays, in the College of Fine 
think you1 must ho mlslnformA new policy has
TelephoneSchonloy 0143
H. F. DIETER ..................................................................................................... Nows Editor
TelephoneHazol 9398
E. J. MAUST ........................................................................................................ Nov/s Editor
TelephoneIIuzo1 0422
H. H. WILSON................................................................................................Athletic Editor
TolephonoHa/,el 035(1
R. P. HAY ........................................................................................................... Photographer
R. B. KELLER ................................................................................,..........Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, Jit............................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. RHPPLIim........................................................................................... Spoplal Wrltor
J. K. MATTER................................................................................................ Special Wrltor
J. M. COOPER 
J. C. MAJOR ..
TolephonoSchonloy 9211 
TelephoneSchonloy 9102
Advertising Manager 
. Circulation Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. Hort/.man, M. S. Downon, F. C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. 
K. Sheppard, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning, F. T. Phelps, 'Catherine Moyers.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
E. C, Frazier, J. H. Ferguson.
' BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowors, W. B. Cunningham, P. F. Schuckor, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. 
Laudlg, D. Moslcovlt, J. W. Metro, 1?. W. liellly, R. R. Young and II. Gibson.
The Editor-In-Chief Is rosponslble for the policy of this paper; 
Managing Editor lor the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student. Interest, If signed. 
Signaturo will bo withhold if dosired. All nows ltoms must bo in the student 
postonico before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OfllcoRoom 5A, Industries Bullulng. 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to i : 00.
Olllce hoursTuesday,
GO TO THE GAMES
Tile attendance at the opening banket ball game last Wednesday 
was very poor, only a handful' of rooters were present. Carnegie stu
dents have usually supported the athletic teams and this showing 
seems somewhat unprecedented.
We hope that the undergraduates and alumni will show more 
interest in these contests in the future.
been Introduced this year by which 
the students may got tickets for only 
a certain nightstudent night. If he 
Isn't able to go that night ho doesn't 
go at all. All the other nights the 
general public gets the tickets. The 
public wanted tickets so badly for 
Rita Coventry that there wasn't 
any student night. If ho wanted to 
go he could stand In lino. Yet you 
say wo don't avail ourselves of this 
opportunity. The fact of the mattor 
Is: wo want to go but we don't got 
much of a chance. It seems to me a 
policy of too much catering to the 
dear old public. What about us?
Editors Note:The writer evident
ly did not get the facts from a reliable 
source, or did not Investigate; for 
thoro was a student performance of 
"Rita Coventry, which was poorly at
tended.
THE CARNEGIE COMMONS
A CO-OPERATIVE PLANT
ROAMINS1
Wore you at the Middlebury game 
last week?
The Sage of Science says:
Being proud of your Alma Mater Is 
much easier than making your Alma 
Mater proud of you.
The largest part of Borne students 
Is their wishbone.
A hundred Sophs cheer. Five of 
them do work on the Plebe Regula
tions.
A very popular pastime among the 
Juniors is kicking the present profs 
and praising those of former years.
Writing to relatives causes few 
Science men to neglect their evening 
studies.
Roamor Is always looking for con
tributions from the readers of this 
column. If you think you have some
thing worth while send it in.
Someone suggested a member of 
the Commercial Engineering Depart
ment as a good line coach. (A little 
deep, but figure it out.)
JUNIOR PROM TICKETS LIMITED
Only two hundred and fifty Junior Prom, tickets will be sold to 
the students; according to the committco this limit is neccssary because with the alumni subscriptions the capacity of the ballroom will 
be overtaxed. Students who are planning to attend should there
fore buy their preliminary tickets immediately, because thero will 
be no more tickets available after the limit reached.
Follows, have you ever stopped to 
think of where your money goes after 
you spend it? Taking one point of 
view it either goes into somo other 
mans pocket, or reverts back to you.
Have you ever heard of a co-opera
tive grocery storemake-your-own ice 
companycommunity stores? What 
are they? On what principle do they 
operate? What Is their objective? 
Pure p,nd simplethey have as theirl 
main object TO SERVE. They use 
all receipts to further advance the 
business. They make no profitonly, 
lrlvr.dlng to meet expenses. Under 
such a plan, the more the patronage, 
the larger quantities of goods can be 
bought. Result: Lower selling priceB. 
They are a benefit to a community.
Carnegie Tech is a community, com
posed of her students, faculty and ad
ministration. The Carnegie Commons 
is your community and co-operative 
cafeteria. The more you support it 
the better it will be enabled to serve 
you.
From the realm of Welch Hall 
comes* a selection of an All-Faculty 
football team. It is pretty goodin 
fact too good for publication. Roamer 
Is afraid that some of the faculty 
might feel slighted if not finding their 
name on this mythical eleven. Any 
member of. the faculty interested in 
finding what position he occupies on 
this select team might call at the Tar
tan office during office hours. Strictly 
confidential. No questions asked.
LAST THISTLE CAMPAIGN
It is hard to understand why the students do not buy their This
tle now, why they keep putting the transaction oil until the last min
ute and run the risk of not being able to obtain a copy later. Extra 
copies can not bo ordered bocausc too much capital will be tied up 
with no assnranco that the money will not bo lost. The last sales 
campaign is now on and ovoryono is urged to place their subscription 
now boforo it is too late.
A COLLEGE EDUCATION
In an address rocontly boforo the Pennsylvania State Education 
Association, diarios Schwab is said to have quoted the following: 
Jf I had a son I would sec that ho would receivo the highest 
education in the United States. Such a typo cannot be gained in uni
versities and colleges where class distinction and snobbishness is 
often too prevalent, although such instructions may give him suprem
acy in technical things. But those traits do not maleo for a success
ful business man. The ideal education, to my mind, comes to the boy 
:iii the great public schools of this country. There is no roal educa
tion except sell! education. What he gets in school, after all, is only 
the foundation on which his futuro snccoss is built by actual effort.
Mr. Schwab may be right in his assertion on snobbishness and 
class distinction to a large degree; but then there is a distinction 
between some schools, and. some individuals; however, thoro are in 
American schools two classes ol! students; on one hand the student 
who gets to school to become a college graduate, boeauso ol social 
advantage, and on the other, the young man or woman who will sae 
riilco many ploasuros to acquire an education so that they can. accom
plish something worth, while. The latter is usually the type who are 
eager to learn and perhaps work their way through.
True, that groat men are very much self educated, nevertheless 
four years at college gives the average person a training which is a 
big advantage over the fellow whose education terminated in pre
paratory or common schools.
Student Calendar
Pretty soft for tho Sophs. When 
they want the Plebe presidents they 
have but to walk into a room full of 
Plebea, single handed and without 
weapons and announce that they de
sire tho company of the presidents 
until after the Plebe banquet. As 
some might say"Its like taking can
dy from a baby.
CARNEGIE TECH 
MAY JOIN TRI
STATE LEAGUE
Athletic Council Meets To
night to Decide If Our Basketeers Shall Enter League 
Plaid Officials in Favor 
of Action
MANY COLLEGES JOIN
The maximDon't * cross the
bridge till you come to it might be 
quite true, but it wouldnt be a bad 
idea to stop for a little gas and put. 
some air in your tires before the final 
examinations.
Dear Roamer:
Having noticed your selections for 
Get that fact into your heads, felj All-Arts school football team, my
wcj Tfa mimli i'lnnov tlinn fn trr\ tn tllOUglltS +'*1 fn fim nnoolhilittaolows. Its much closer than to go to 
Oakland, or to Craig and Forbes.*And, 
more important from your point of 
view, its much cheaper in that you 
got better food, bettor and more 
carefully prepared. Those who ate 
there during the *?ost week know this 
to bo a fact. This will bo more evi
dent in tho future. It Is a woll-known 
fact that a newly established plant 
grows hotter with time.
Remembertho Carnegie Commons 
is yourspresented to you by tho 
schooland it will remain yours as 
long as you show you want It. EAT 
AT THE COMMONSIT CANT BE 
BEAT!
ARTS THEATER
DRAMA DEPT. TO PRESENT
"YOURE NEXT," JAN 26 AND 27
In the coming two weeks tho 
Drama Department will produoo tho 
piny "Youre Next, by Harry Hamil
ton ol! the Dramatic Composition 
class.
Student nights on Friday and Sat
urday, January 2(1 and 27; tlelcot for 
those porfornmncos will bo ready for 
distribution to tho utitdonts Monday, 
January 22. Thoro will be a per
form unco Friday, January 19, at 4:30, 
for which no tickets will ho required, 
For tho remaining performunces un 
distributed tickets will he given out 
the day before tho performance.
turned to the possibilities 
for an All-Science Soph team, and I 
submit my selection for your ap
proval :
End ................................... Hammerschlag
Tackle ..........................."Shorty Larosa
Guard ...............................................M. Heer
Center ........................................... Hummer
Guard ............................................. Kemery
Tackle ........................... "Shorty Foster
End .......................................... Funkhouser
Quarter .................................H. N. Smith
Halfback....................................E. E. Smith
Halfback ....................................F. C. Smith
Fullback ............................. "Buck James
After much deliberation I have 
como to the conclusion'that this team 
represents the flower of the possibili
ties.
OSWALD III.
At the meeting of the Athletic 
Council this evening it will be deter
mined whether or not Tech will enter 
the newly formed Tri-State Intercol
legiate Basket Ball League. Assist
ant Graduate Manager A1 Irwin rep
resented the Tartans at a conference 
of league boosters recently, and it ap
pears local officials are highly in 
favor of such an organization. The 
Plaid officials declined to enter the 
league some time ago because of the 
laxness of the rules regarding players 
eligible to compete for their various 
colleges, but since then the rules 
have been revised and are more strict. 
Chief among them are the migratory 
rule and the scholastic rule. The 
scholastic rule states that in order to 
compete a player must have received 
a diploma from high school, or must 
have had fifteen accepted credits be
fore entering college.
An organization of this kind will 
undoubtedly be a great thing for bas
ket ball in this section. The large 
number of colleges, both those of 
large and of small enrollment, makes 
it almost impossible to give each 
team a final rating at the end of the 
season, as they do not play enough 
games with each other. Resides, it 
lias been repeatedly shown that the 
smaller schools turn out as good, and 
often better, teams than the large 
schools. An example is Grove City, 
which has had one of the best quin
tets in this section for several years. 
In this respect basket ball is unlike 
footballit is not necessary for a 
school to have a large enrollment in 
order to turn out a championship bas
ket ball team.
It is planned to have each team 
play every other team in the league 
at least two games, one to be played 
at home and the other away. If there 
are more than two games, the others 
can be played wherever the managers 
agree. So far the following colleges 
have joined the league: Geneva,
Westminster, Thiel, Grove City, 
Waynesburg and Bethany. Tech and 
W. & J. are pretty sure of joining, 
while Pitt, Penn State, West Virginia 
and Allegheny are doubtful.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10
General Student Assembly...........................11:30, Carnegie Music Hall
Tea DanceArts Junior (tentative)..................4:30, Carnegie Union
THURSDAY, JANUARY 11
ChapelDr. B. F. Farbei...........................................12:50, Arts Theater
Band Practice............................................................7:00, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, JANUARY 12
Tea. DanceR. O. T. C................................................4- -.30, Carnegie Union
DanceScholastic Benefit Dance............................8:30, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, JANUARY 13
DanceCarnegie Musical Clubs...........................8:30, Carnegie United
Basket BallCarnegie vs. Penn State................................!........... There
SUNDAY, JANUARY 14
Musical ClubsGlee Club.......................................2:30, Arts Exhibition
Mandolin  Club..............................2:30, Carnegie Union
WEDNESDAY, AND THURSDAY, JANUARY 17 AND 18
DramaYoure Next, by Harry Hamilton...........8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, JANUARY 19
DramaYoure Next..............................................4:30, Arts Theater
DanceWomans Junior Prom ...................................................(?)
Basket BallCarnegie vs. Geneva.8:30, Carnegie Field House
SATURDAY, JANUARY 20
DramaYoure Next......................................................Little Theater
) Basket BallCarnegie vs. W. Va................................8:30, Field House
DanceD. A. V. W. W....................... .......................Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
DanceMons Junior Prom...............................9:00, Hotel Schonloy
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
DanceArts Ball.............................................9:00, College of Fino Arts
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10 
DancePost Arts Ball................................................9:00, Arts Foyer
Many Improvements 
Planned For Campus
Grading and Seeding to Be 
Resumed in Spring
ROAMER believes in pleasant sen
sations! 1-Ie has had many of them 
too! But, all other of the such sud
denly slid off into oblivion last Thurs
day noon, when lie took a walk into 
the now Carnoglo Commons in order 
to partake of a little mid-day nourlshmonti Tho old oyo-soro producing 
beanery laid boon superseded, during 
tho holidays by an attractive dining 
room. Oh, boy! Wasnt it nice to 
luivo a nlco place to oat in? And 
when I10 had succoodod in getting his 
cliowlng contraption around some of 
tho foodROAMER thought I10 was 
pleasantly surprised when . ho first 
came in, but that wasnt In it at all! 
Horos hoping tlioy continue as good 
as tlioy started. If so, ROAMER will 
oat there all of tho tlmo, and thats 
all thoro is to it; thoro aint 110 more!
ROAMER.
MANY ORGANIZATIONS OWE
FOR THISTLE PICTURES
(Continued from Pago One) 
additional two dollars will bo added 
to all bills not paid by this time. Cuts 
will be returned upon request.
Make all checks payable to Vincent 
A. Roy, Treasurer, 506-1 Forbes street, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
The following organizations have 
not paid up their Thistle bills: Arts
Sophomore Class, Science Sophomore 
Class, Industry Junior Class, Industry 
Freshman Class, Industry Night 
Classes, Debating Society, Avo Club, 
Buckeye Club, Tau Sagma Delta, In
terfraternity Council, Alpha Pi, Woodlawn Hall No. 2, McGill Hall, Scobell
Hall, Woldi Hall, Secretarial Club, 
Rifle Club, American Society of Enginhors, Household Economics Club, 
M. M. D. Somite, Social Workers' 
Club, Varsity C. Club.
NELSON MAPLE ORCHESTRA
AT JUNIOR PROM
MISS LISSFELT SINGS 
AT SCIENCE ASSEMBLY
A country, very unlike man, has 
many backbones. The farms, the rail
roads, the mines, the industries, the 
homes, and the church might be 
named, and then some. The crip
pling of any one of these would be the 
crippling of the country. Just as man 
can live with his backbone broken, 
so can a country exist with one of
and community buildings be without 
the steel put in tools?
All of which is just another way 
of praising Carnegie Tech. Carnegie 
is turning out Mining Engineers every 
year, practically all of whom are hold
ing down big and important jobs in 
the mining industry.
Here are a few of them, space prohers broken, ut, as is the case with I hibits the printing of the entire list:
man, only with great difficulties.
The Mining Engineerwhat ishe? what is his position?of what 
importance?what are his products?
First and foremost he is the im
portant cog in one of the backbones 
of the world. He is one of a vast 
throng of men who have it as their 
duty the exploitation of Mother Earth 
for her vast stores of energy and raw 
materials:coal, and the minerals. 
His position is to derive and devise 
the ways and means of getting these 
stores, after first getting to them, and 
to prepare them for use in the indus
tries and domestic life of the world.
It is perhaps the most hazarduous 
labor of all.
Its importancea superfluous ques
tion. Where would the farmer be 
without the iron that is put. in his 
plows? Where would the manufac
turer be without the minerals which 
are used to make his machinery? 
Where would our homes, churches,
Dear Old Tech Topic 
Of Mid-Westerners
Plan to Spread Carnegie Tech 
Propaganda at Home
Psychology Dept. 
Visits Boston Clan
(Continued from Page One) 
esses will bo announced in tho next 
issue of The Carnegie Tartan.
The committee is working with 
one object in view; to make the 
Junior Prom of the Class of 1924 a 
greater success than any similar oc
casion in the history of Carnegie 
Tech. \
Additional improvements will be 
made to the campus during the com
ing planting season. The area near 
Forbes Hall and the Brown property 
will be covered and seeded. The item 
of top soil is the hardest to solve, as 
large quantities are required to prop
erly build up the lawns. The campus 
area has, to a large extent, been de
veloped by grading down high hills on 
the Institute location. The sub-soil 
therefore, over a large section is hard 
impervious rock. This condition ne
cessitates the entire reconstruction of 
the lawn surfaces and a great amount 
of expensive top-soil. The campus 
surface between Arts and Machinery 
Hall building is only skim coated with 
topsoil, and it is hoped that better 
conditions can he creatod after the 
service pipes and boardwalks ore re
moved from this section.
iCousldorahlo topsoil was socuvod 
Inst, summer and placed on the Woodlawn Forbes Streets Campus. Tills 
will develop int a fine lawn after 
It Is additionally treated with wood 
humus and bone dust. No ordinary 
manuro will ho used, as it. almost In
variably carries a crop of parasitical j 
woods.
Tho sloping torracos at west end of 
tennis courts will bo developed and 
seeded, also slopes in rear Machinery 
Hall. A new roadway has boon com
pleted in that section and additional 
planting will be dono to cover up the 
present naked hill sides. The ques
tion of formal tree planting, class 
trees, and additional shrubbery will 
come up for action as soon as the 
campus board walks fade from the 
scene.
Nineteen Carnegie Tech boosters 
attended a Gian luncheon in Boston 
December 29. The representation 
from Carnegie Psychology Depart
ment who were attending the meet
ings of the American Psychological 
Association in Boston were present
The Psychology Seminar, held 
Thursday, January 4, was devoted to 
reports from the association conven
tion in Boston. Drs. Bingham, Yarbough and Sclioen. and Miss Gwinn 
gave reports.
The Psychology Department has 
received copies of the revised edition 
of Introductory Psychology for Ten ehers toy E. K. Strong, Jr., head of the 
Bureau of Educational Research.
Science Assembly Wednesday was 
given a treat in the form of a snappy 
debate between two teams of Plebes. 
The subject was Resolved that Plebe 
Regulations are necessary for a uni
fied class. The affirmative, composed 
of Plebes W. C. Fernelius and A. S, 
Roush, first took tho. floor and argued 
eloquently for the cause. iPlebes J. G. 
Jones and Ceruti took up the flglit 
for the men sitting in the back rows, 
much t.o their pleasure.
While tho jury, coinposd of II. O. 
Sprinkle, foreman, A. F. Elcliliorn, and 
C. W. Joffers, was preparing a verdict, 
Chairman Evans read a communica
tion from Doan Tarbell regarding 
smoking in the halls. The decision 
was a difficult one, owing to the large 
number In favor of the negative, and 
to tlio undoubted prejudices of the 
judges. Therefore the decision 6f 
the judges was a tie.
Miss Lissfelt, of the Registrars 
office, accompanied by Clarence Hepp, 
entertained next with three songs, 
Swing Low Sweet Chariot, Hard 
Trials, and "A Negro Lullaby. Miss 
Lissfelt has a fine voice and has the 
admiration of all who heard her.
P. C. Gannon entertained with two 
songs, "I Hear You Calling Me, and 
Little Town In the Ould County 
Down, which he rendered success
fully with Clarence Hepp at the piano.
A Junior class meeting and a Fresh
man Class meeting immediately fol
lowed the assembly.
Some interesting reports are given 
by the members' of the Midwest Club, 
who were fortunate enough to be able 
to return to Gods Country during the 
recent vacation. It seems that Car
negie Tech is coming to be better and 
better known out there. Many of the 
students upon their arrival in the old 
home town found that relatives were 
not the only ones wishing to have 
questions concerning the school an
swered. Many high school Seniors 
and prospective students asked for in
formation in regard to dear old 
Tech and got it. This of course is 
aside from the expected chumming 
with old grads who are now spread 
out there so it is very seldom they 
see or hear from anyone connected 
with their Alma Mater. It needs 
hardly be stated that the students 
spoke in the highest terms of our 
school.
These reports are of great interest 
in connection with the avowed pur
pose of the Midwest Club which Is 
to form a tie between old grads and 
present students, and also to work 
toward the better knowledge of the 
school among prospective students in
terested in a technical career. A 
glance at the records of the athletic 
teams of the school will show that the 
Midwest is very well represented in
deed, as will also a glance at the 
membership of the honorary socie
ties.
A movement is under way whereby 
it will be possible for the club and 
similar societies to have some place 
where meetings can be held at stated 
intervals. If the proposed Carnegie 
Commons was now available it would 
be a great benefit. Since it is not, 
however, arrangements are -being 
made whereby some place may be 
utilized in its stead. As soon as 
something definite is known in this 
regard members and friends will see 
the little well known green cards on 
the bulletin boards announcing the 
place and time of meeting. Several 
important matters are awaiting dis
cussion at this meeting.
W. G. Blanchard, General Manager, 
Blanchard Coal Company; Harry D. 
Bradbury, Manager, Franklin Coal and 
Coke Company; William Ivill, Super
intendent, Pittsburgh Terminal R. R. 
and Coal Company; Lawrence Loadman, Superintendent, Maryland Coal 
Company of Pennsylvania; James B. 
Benson, Chief Engineer, Cleveland 
and Morgantown Coal Company; John 
M. Provost, Chief Engineer, Pitts
burgh Terminal Railroad and Coal 
Company; George D. Baker, Chie<f 
Engineer, Mordud Colleries Company; 
Frank S. Crawford, Field Engineer, 
W. J. Rainey Company, Inc.; Harry 
W. McKee, Assistant Superintendent, 
G. W. Johnston Limestone Company; 
Paul K. McGill, Assistant Superinten
dent, Pittsburgh Limestone Company; 
Louis H. Scholl, Chief Geologist, Carip 
Syndicate, Cartegina, Columbia; W. 
L. Bender, Mining Engineer, LampCreek Collery Company; R. R. Scullen, Engineer, Franklin Coal and Coke 
Company; C. F. McCormick, Mine In
spector, Arrow Coal Mining Com
pany; Israel Goldman, Mine Inspector, 
Pocahontas Fuel CoYhpany; M. E. Harworth, Chief Draftsman, Hillman Coal 
and Coke Company; H. C. Henderson, 
Operator, Grcensburg, Pennsylvania; 
A. F. Brosky, Pittsburgh Editor, Coal 
Age; William L. Dangherty, Instruc
tor at Carnegie Tech in Mining En
gineering.
Everywhere, in every way, Car
negie Tech men are found, making the 
world better and better.
Yours for a better known Carnegie 
Tech.
Fraternities wanting Dance Pro
grams, Favors, Stationery, Pillow Cov
ers, etc., should get prices from Sing
er Pen & Gift Shop.
Mans Ideal.
Every man has at times In his mind 
the Ideal of what he should be, but is 
not. In all men that seek to Improve, 
it is better than the actual character. 
Theodore Parker.
Start the | 
Week Right f
V
Church on Sunday $ 
puts new pep into Monday, Tuesday, Wednes:j; 
daytill Sunday comes $ 
again. Try it and see.
Oakland Methodist | 
Church I
FORBES AND f 
BOQUET if
Y
Fifty steps from tlie ^ 
campus
I Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ......... 9:45 A.M. :
College Mens Bible
Class ..............................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ...................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. : 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
MUSICAL CLUB DANCE
TO BE HELD SATURDAY NIGHT
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
(Continued from Page One) 
rison Hollins, with funny Joe.
An overflow crowd is being looked 
forward to, and therefore arrange
ments are made to opon up the Arts 
Foyerthis, to insure every couple 
of their squnro yard of floor space, 
which they are entitled to by law, 
Traffic officors will bo stationed in or
der to prevont smash-upn.
Tho price0110 dollarwill posi
tively entitle you and your favorite 
dobutanto to all privllegso.
NEW Y. M. C. A. CLUB ROOM
OPENED IN SCOBELL HALL
(Coutlnued from Pago One) 
made as designed by Dr. Ellis. 
A good supply of current Action is as
sured.
The new club room fills a need 
long realized, in opening new possi
bilities of pleasure and enjoyment to 
the dormitory resident. Here the 
fellows can meet and find relaxation 
in games, or merely smoke and talk, 
making new acquaintances and 
newing old friendships.
DIR. BOSSANGE ANSWERS
COMMENTS ON TICKETS
(Continued from Page One) 
have requested by letter that tickets 
be sent them. The guest list is per
fectly democratic. It is now so large 
(1600 names, two tickets sent to 
each) that it is impossible to take 
care of all our guests when only four 
or five performances are given; for 
the theater seats only four hundred. 
Invitations are sent to the guest list 
in alphabetical order and in rotation 
giving all an equal chance. In cases 
of emergency, for instance when par
ents of students come from out-oftown, it is usually possible for us to 
provide tickets.
This is tho best plan for the dis
tribution of tickets we have been able 
to dovlso, but we fully realize that we 
can probably improve it. It might be 
better, for Instance, to reserve a block 
of seats for students at every per
formance instead of having student 
nights. Wo shall boN very glad to 
consider any suggestions that may 
help us to take better care of our 
guests, faculty and students. TI10 
paragraph in the Tartan refers to 
there being no tickets procurable for 
"good plays, meaning, presumably, 
plays that prove to be popular with 
the students. It is only for popular 
plays that the student tickets are all 
called for, though the demand for 
tickets to the classical plays, on the 
part of the outside public, is very 
large.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
The Complete Project 
for the Standard 
Oil Building 
New York City
OBGGjGY
and
HASTINGS
Architects
The Neio Architecture
O T
A DISTINCTLY new tendency is apparent in architectural 
thought and design today. Architects are designing in 
masses  the great silhouette, the profile of the building has 
become of far greater importance than its detail.
There is a new vigor and ruggedness even in buildings which are conven
tionally classic in their detail. Masses mount upward, supporting the tower, 
accentuating its height. The new architecture is tending toward great struc
tures rather than multiplicity of detail.
Certainly modern inventionmodern engineering skill and organization, 
will prove more than equal to the demands of the architecture of die future.
IS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities o the World

---------------------------------------------------

I
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Pat Ryan Appointed 
1923 Varsity Grid Mgr.
Athletic Council Makes Other 
Appointments
At a recent meeting of the Athletic 
Council several appointments were 
made for 1923 football. By consist
ent hard work for tliree years to
gether with his ability to attend all 
business required of an assistant 
manager during those three long 
seasons, William H. Ryan was elect
ed manager of Carnegie Techs foot
ball team for next fall. Pat succeeds 
Vic Stromquist from whom he has 
ibeen coached in the ways and deeds 
that give the manager prominence in 
college activities. -
PAT RYAN
The football men are well acquaint
ed. with Pat and they have confidence 
that he will handle the job as effi
ciently as possible. It means a lot 
to these men who sacrifice their 
time and pleasure for football to 
 have a manager who can and. wil] 
look after all their needs, their com
fort, and every convenience which 
encourages them to battleknowing 
that their wants will be taken care 
of without another battle.
Pat found his way to C. I. T. in 
the fall of 1920 and immediately en
tered1 into every phase of activities 
permitted to a lonesome Plebe. No 
one holds anything against Pat be
cause his railroad ticket stated, that 
he came from Lorain, Ohio, from 
which town he Is a high school 
graduate. Ryan is a member of 
Theta Xi Fraternity, Druids and 
Delta-Slcull; is chairman of the Jun
ior Prom Committee and was presi
dent of the Ciass of 1924 in the Col
lege of Engineering last year.
J. R. Reed ,and George Slye were 
elected to the positions of assistant 
managers of the football team. Both 
men are Sophomores and. their train
ing should increase their knowledge 
in how to become good managers."
Dick hails from Erie, Pa., is a 
member of Delta. Upsilon Fraternity, 
and is studying architecture. He is 
also advertising manager of the 
Thistle Year Book and assistant 
chairman of the Arts ball. Slye is 
a member of Beta Theta Pi Fratern
ity and holds the job as secretary 
of the Class of 1925 in the College 
of Engineering. Slye is also a Theta 
Tau and Photographic Editor of the 
Thistle.
George Saltzman was elected man
ager of the Plebe football team for 
1923. He has been out on the foot
ball field toiling under the managers 
and coaches for more than two years. 
Saltzman will manage the equipment 
and schedule of the new . men and 
see that nothing is lacking in their 
comfort. His home is in Washing
ton, D. C., and he is a member of 
Sigma Nu Fraternity. As a member 
of the Class of 1924 he is a Senior 
next year in the [College of Engineer
ing.
GIRLS' BASKET BALL TEAM 
SHOWS VERY GOOD FORM;On the Plaid Screen
Last Monday afternoon the Girls 
Varsity basket ball candidates started 
practice with a rush, fully twenty-five 
girls answering the after Christmas 
resume call by Miss Bowman, their 
tutor. Final selection of the team will 
entail quite a bit of meditation on the 
part of the coach, due to the large 
number of aspirants, and their close 
relative ability at passing and shoot
ing the ball through the loops. A lot 
of trouble is expected in filling the 
places made vacant by graduation of 
such sterling players as Isabelle Win
ner, Helen iReed and Jean Eakin. 
But when one takes a look at the vet
erans still competing for positions, 
hopes rise considerably. Eleanor 
Craver, Ruth Snyder, Bessie Bulmer, 
and Miss Markey are the experienced 
ones, and are on the floor each prac
tice giving their best for the good of 
the girls varsity.
Great interest is being shown by 
the various classes in the Margaret 
Morrison division in their prospective 
team. Each one of these classes is 
fully expectant of having the cham
pion team, which in itself is a good 
indication of spirited inter-class com
petition. Offsetting the claims of the 
Margaret Morrison girls for the cham
pionship team, is the claim of the 
girls of the College of Fine Arts. They 
claim that they have the only real 
team. Time will tell.
'Swimming and bowling are also re
ceiving quite a bit of attention. Reg
ular weekly swims are being held in 
the Schenley High School pool, and 
many girl are taking advantage of 
these in order to get in proper condi
tion for the inter-ciass swimming 
meet. Attempts are being made to 
secure a bowling alley for regular 
use. Success, it is hoped, will at
tend their efforts in the near future.
By H. H. WILSON
NELSO-OOML -A PREC Al Irwin Selected to
PENN SI AIE JAN. 13 succeec| 0jj Waddell
THE OPENING GAME
Of the home basket ball season at Motor Square Garden brought out the 
fact that the Plaid has a very promising basket ball team this winter. They 
showed the necessary punch and fight to chalk up a victory from a very 
close game. In past years these virtues have been lacking more or less and 
we sincerely hope that Coach Lubic will be able to instill them into this 
'years squad. In keepiug with the red jerseys of the football team, the 
cagers are equipped with bright yellow jerseys. They not only provido an 
interesting spectacle on the lloor, but are also a material aid to team work.
Jim Anderson did some great work, caging some close-ups besides drop
ping in several from the middle Of the floor. Midge Matter porformed nicely 
although he showed a slight lack of experience. Gibson played his usual 
stellar game, being a strong man on the defensive besides dropping in a 
number of field goals.
Middlebury had a well-balanced team, although at the critical moments 
they were unable to penetrate the Skibos defense. They presented an 
accurate foul shooter along with another who proved to be a master of 
long shots.
STEFFENS NEW ASSISTANT
It is none other than our star center, Al Irvin, who is in active charge 
of the Graduate Managers office. He will be assistant to the Graduate Man
ager as well as being assistant to Wally Steffen on the gridiron next fall. 
This was a wise step by the Athletic Council for Al thoroughly understands 
the Steffen system and should prove a valuable aid to Wally in 1923.
SPORT SCRAPS
Unofficial figures give Harvards profit from the football season at about 
$400,000. Harvards share of the Yale-Harvard game is roughly estimated at 
$100,000. These figures help to show that the public is taking more and 
more of a liking to football as the seasons roll by. New stadiums are being 
built all over the country to accommodate the overflowing crowds that will 
clamor at the gates in seasons to come. Even Carnegie Tech is laying 
plans for a stadium in the -not far distant future.
PLEBES OPEN SEASON 
WITH GAME SATURDAY
Indications point this season to one 
of the best Freshman basket ball 
teams ever turned out at Carnegie 
Tech. Coach Beeler has had his men 
out for some time now and has been 
able to pick out several promising 
Plebe performers. A partial schedule 
has been prepared and has been ar
ranged as follows:
January 13Heinz House...........There
January 25Coraopolis Scholastics
........................................................... There
February 3Kislci ......................... Here
February GWestingliouse Tech .Here
February 9Duquesne Preps-----Here
February 10Duquesne Preps..There
February 12California Normal-----
............................................................. There
Westinghouse Tech and Kislci will 
also be scheduled for another game 
each, the dates to be announced later. 
Indiana Normal and Bellefonte Acad
emy will be added and games will be 
played with the various Pittsburgh 
High schools before the season closes. 
H. D. Sonneman is the student mana
ger of the Freshman floor team.
Prominent among the players who 
have shown up well to date are: Handerson, Sleman, Barnes, Smith, Edie, 
Burt, Harris, Wisotzky and Dippley.
Coach Beeler has had some success 
with floor teams before coming to 
Carnegie and expects to put forth an 
aggregation that will even eclipse in 
speed and power the crack Plebe 
team of last season. It is not unrea
sonable to expect one of the best 
Freshman quintets that ever repre
sented the Plaid.
Roamer must have overlooked Harry Wilson of Penn State when he 
picked his All-Western Pennsylvania team. We cant forget what a genuine 
Lion Wilson proved himself to be against our Tartans.
Walter Camp in naming men who were close to the top in their respec
tive positions mentions Robertson at quarterback and Anderson at halfback.
W. H. Ryan has been selected by the Athletic Council as the* student 
manager of the 1923 football squad. Pat is an energetic chap and should 
make a first-class manager.
Although the Plaid quintet won 
their game last week from Middle ! 
bury -College, iCoach Lubic is not on-1 
tirely satisfied with the results. 
There still remains a hard schedule 
yet. to be played.
Another hard game will be played 
at Penn Slate Saturday, January 13, 
when the Skibos meet the fast Penn 
State quintet. Basket ball at Penn 
State has been delayed about two 
weeks because of the football foam 
being on their western trip. Upon 
the return of the football team three 
additional men were added to the 
cage squad. They were: Harry Wil* 
son. star halfback on the football 
team, also Ted Artel and Ilap. 
Frank, former Harrisburg Tech star 
As Penn State has had fast teams 
in previous years, Coach Hermann is 
sure to develop the same type this 
year. The iSkibos are intent on win
ning these two contests but realize 
they must play the best type of 
basket ball.
Popular Senior is Ideal Choice 
For Position
A. C. Irwin, familiarly known as 
Al, is the boy who is keeping the 
wheels of the Athletic Association 
turning during the enforced absence 
of Mr. Haaren. Unto Al has been 
given the job formerly held by Bob 
Waddell, who recently resigned to ac
cept a coachiiig position at his 
Alma Mater, Buekuell.
OHIO SENATOR TO SPEAK
AT GENERAL ASSEMBLY
It looks as though our gridiron outfit was going to have a tough time of 
it next fall when they meet Chicago, W. & J. and Pitt in consecutive games. 
In fact it would be a. tough proposition for any team to tackle.
SOME NEW TOSSERS
Since the last varsity basket ball game several new candidates have re
ported for practice and are showing enough stuff to make the followers of 
the team take heart and hope for better things in the future contests. The 
men who are showing greatest promise are: W. W. Donahoo, W. W. Morlmn, H. N. Kelly and D. J. Miller.
Donahoe is a Science Plebe and came to Carnegie from EdgeAVood High 
School. He was on the varsity football squad this season. Morman is also a 
Plebe and hails from Warrington, O. He is showing good form at guard. 
Kelly was formerly at Slippery Rock Normal and at Grove City for a time. 
Miller is a candidate for the center position and comes from Canton. O. He 
was All-Ohio center in high school and is expected to be a valuable addition 
to the squad.
SENIOR MINING ENGINEERS
VISIT INLAND COLLIERS CO.
(Continued from Page One) 
year working at this mine. They are 
Ha-iclc, Swecker and Bob Nation. TI1I3 
mine is very closely connected to this 
school, due to the fact that each sum
mer the miners complete the required 
surveying course by doing under
ground surveying in this mine.
On next Friday afternoon there 
will be the regular scheduled lecture 
in Room 63, Science.
A Tip From Franklin.
Good, better, best, never let It rest, 
till your good Is better and your bet
ter* best.Boston Transcript.
A. R. 2ELT APPOINTED CHAIRMAN 
OF CAMPUS WEEK COMMITTEE
A. R. Zelt will bo chairman of the 
Campus Week Committee for 1923. 
Zelt was clioson by the Studont 
Council at its last meeting. 1-Ie will 
have the other members of the com
mittee and the sub-committee ap
pointed in the near future.
The Ages of Trees.
The Tortwortli chestnut, In Eng
land, figures \ipon a charter dnted 
1135, and RT Is probably well on to
ward the end of Its Tenth century, and 
there is an oak at Tllford near Varaham, which wap there In the year 1250.
(Continued From Page One.) 
success of Mr. Fess as a statesman | 
parallels his rise, previously, as an | 
educator. Following his graduation 
from Ohio Northern University, where 
he was awarded degrees of A. B., A. 
M., LL.B., and LL.D., he was con
nected with the faculty at the same 
Institution and subsequently at the 
University of Chicago. He later 
went to Antioch College, in JTSSTBE 
Nprings, Ohio, where he served as 
president for ten years.
A soction will' be reserved in the 
Music Hall for the students from the 
Buckeye State and all studonts from 
that stato are urged to occupy those 
seats.
There will be no parado to the as
sembly and this procedure will con 
tinue as long as the weather warrants 
such action.
JOB PRINTING DISCONTINUED
BY MEMBERS OF GRAPHICA
(Continuod From Pago Ono.) 
Tho profits wore put In the treasury 
of the Graphica.
The necessity of producing work 
at a spoclfled time, and tho amount 
of deadhead work which had to bo 
done, provod to bo a groat strain and 
took too much of tho time of thoso 
In charge, and so It was doomed nocossary to discontinue the ontorprlso. 
Tho plan, howovor, worked well, and 
enough work was brought. Into tho 
departmont to koop the Graphica busy 
at all tlmoH. Especially was tills truo 
during tho last two wooks boforo va
cation, wlion qulto a number of orders 
were rocolvod for Christmas cards. 
No soliciting for work was dono.
Tho Graphica plans now to print 
the bolatod Trip Book of last year 
and then to publish a Bagpipo somollmo In tho oarly spring.
INTER-FRATERNITY BASKET BALL SCHEDULES
Unheard Of.
From a StoryFor the moment he 
temporized in the hope of gaining 
time. Now isnt that the oddest rea
son for temporizingwhat!Boston 
Transcript.
Lines From 
Unitarians
Great men are they who see 
that spiritual is stronger than 
any material force; that 
thoughts rule the world.Ralph 
Waldo Emerson'.
First Unitarian 
Church
Morewood and Ellsworth Aves. 
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor.
Schedule of Inter-Frat.
Dorm. Basket Ball Revised
The revised and corrected InterFraternity basket ball schedule ap
pears on this page. There have been 
queries regarding the meaning of the 
numbers on the schedule. The first 
number under the date designates 
the number of the court in Langley 
Lab., there being two courts, num
bers one and two. The second num
ber designates the time, number one 
meaning at 7:30 p. m., and number 
two at 8:30 p. m.
BUY
I A Present
FOR YOURSELF
A Complete Line of
I HATS
SHIRTS 
TEES 
SOCKS 
PAJAMAS 
UNDERWEAR 
CORRECTLY PRICED
Davies & Hughes
Oakland Mens Store
3615 FORBES STREET 
NEXT TO STRAND THEATER
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Beta
Theta
Pi
Kappa
Sigma
Rho
lota
Sigma
Delta
Delta
Phi
Delta
Sigma
Alpha
Epsilon
Sigma
Epnllon
Phi
Scobel
Hall
Delta
Epnllon
Omega
Beta Theta Pi......................Jan. 9 
1-2
Fob. 28 
1-1
Jan.25 
2-1
Feb. 13 
1-2
Feb. 20 
1-2
Jan. 17 
2-2
Mar. 13 
1-2
Kappa Sigma Rho..............Jan. 9 
1-2
Feb. 8 
1-1
Jan. 18 
1-1
Fob. 20 
1-1
Jan. 24 
1-2
Fob. 28 
2-1
Fob. 15 
1-2
lota Sigma Delta..............Feb. 28 
1-1
Feb. 8 
1-1Jan. 10 
1-1
Jan. 16 
2-1
Mar. 8 
2-1
' PoBT 
1-1
Jan.24 
2-1
Delta Phi Delta....................Jan. 5 
2-1
Jan. 18 
1-1
Jan.10 
1-1Feb. 8 
1-2
Feb. 13 
2-2
Mar. 8 
1-2
Fob. 28 
2-2
Sigma Alpha Epsilon....Feb. 13 
1-2
Feb. 20. 
1-1
Jan. 16 
21
Feb. 8 
1-2Jan. 10 
2-2
Jan. 24 
1-1
War." Y 
1-1
Sigma Epsilon Phi..............Feb. 20 
1-2
Jan. 24 
1-2
Mar. 8 
2-1
Feb. 13 
2-2
Jan. 10 
2-2
Feb. 8 
2-1
Jan.18 
1-2
Scobel Hall.............................Jan. 17 
2-2
Feb. 28 
2-1
Feb. 15 
1-1
Mar. 8 
1-2
Jan. 24 
1-1
Feb. 8 
2-1
Jan. 11 
2-1
Delta Epsilon Omega....Mar. 13 
1-2
Feb. 15 
1-2
Jan. 24. 
2-1
Feb. 28 
2-2
Mar. 7 
1-1
Jan. 18 
1-2
Jan. 11 
2-1
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Sigma
Nu
Delta
Mu
Woodlawn
Club
McGill
Hall
Pi Kappa 
Alpha
Boss
Hall
Tau
Gamma
Phi
Delta
Upsilon
Jan. 9 
1-1
Feb. 21 
2-2
Jan. 16 
1-1
Mar. 8 
1-1
Jan.24 
2-2
Feb. 27 
2-1
Feb. 13 
1-1
Jan. 9 
1-1
Jan. 17 
2-1
Feb. 14 
2-1
Feb. 27 
2-2
Feb. 7 
2-1
Feb. 20 
2-1
Jan.25 
1-2
Woodlawn Club....................Feb.21 
2-2
Jan.17 
2-1
Jan. 9 
2-2
Jan. 25 
1-1
Feb. 15 
2-1
Mar. 7 
2-2
Feb. 28 
1-2
McGill Hall.............................Jan. 16 
1-1
Feb. 14 
2-1
Jan. 9 
2-2
Mar. 13 
1-1
Feb. 20 
2-2
Jan. 23 
2-2
Feb. 7 
2-2
Pi Kappa Alpha....................Mar. 8 
1-1
Feb. 27 
2-2
Jan.25 
1-1
Mar. 13 
1-1
Jan. 10 
2-1
Feb. 14 
2-2
Jan. 18 
2-1
Jan. 24 
2-2
Feb. 7 
2-1
Feb. 15 
2-1
Feb. 20 
2-2
Jan.10 
2-1
Jan. 17 
1-1
Mar. 7 
2-1
Tau Gamma Phi....................Feb. 27 
2-1
Feb. 20 
2-1
Mar. 7 
2-2
Jan.23 
2-2
Feb. 14 
2-2
Jan. 11 
1-1
Jan.11 
1-2
Delta Upsilon........................Feb. 13 
1-1
Jan. 25 
1-2
Feb. 28 
1-2
Feb. 7 
2-2
Jan.18 
2-1
Mar. 7 
2-1
Jan.11 
1-2
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxes 
Corsages 
Plants 
Decorations
Tech students will find that our prices are In keeping with the quality 
and service.
A. W. Smith Company
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
Phone Smithfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.
FEDERAL LEAGUE
XI
Sigma
Upsilon
Hender
son
Hall
Square
and
Compass
Welch
Hall
Theta
XI
Sigma
Kappa
Beta
Sigma
Rho
Xi Sigma Upsilon..............Jan. 9 
2-1
Jan. 17 
1-2
Feb. 21 
1-2
Fob. 7 
11.
Jan. 23 
1-1
Fob. 27 
1-2
Henderson Hall....................Jan. 9 
2-1
Feb. 14 
1-2
i4eb. 1 
1-2
Miir. 1 
1-1
T6\rir
1-1
Jan.23 
2-1
Square and Compass.........Jan. 17 
1-2
Feb. 14 
1-2
Jan. 10 
1-2
Jan. 'b 
1-2
Mar. 7 
1-2
Feb. 21 
2-1
Welch Hall.............................Feb. 21 
1-2
Feb. 7 
1-2
Jan.10 
1-2
Jan. Hi 
2-2
Feb. 27 
1-1
Feb. 13 
2-1
Feb. 7 
1-1
Mar. 1 
1-1
Jan. 23 
1-2
Jan. 16 
2-2
Feb. 4 "" 
1-1
Jan. 11 
1-1
Kappa Sigma.........................Jan.23 
1-1
Feb. 21 
1-1
Mar. 7 
1-2
Feb. 27 
1-1
Feb. 14 
1-1
Jan. 16 
1-2
Beta Sigma Rho..................Feb. 27 " 
1-2
Jan.23 
2-1
Feb. 21 
2-1
Feb. 13 
2-1
Jan. 11 
1-1
Jan. 16 
1-2
AL IRWIN
Tho life history of Irwin ru.ua 
something like this: He was born
twenty-two years ago and halls from 
Washington, Pa., whore ho oarly 
showed1 his athlotlc tendencies by 
starring for tho high school of that 
city.
His career at Carnogio has boon 
ono of groat activity. Ho will grad
uate this yoar with a dogroo In Ma
chine Production. Ho Is now presi
dent of tho Industries Assembly; 
was president of Senior Class, Indus* 
trios, last yoar; was a member of 
Student and Athletic Councils last 
year, and Is a, member ol! tho Student 
Cabinet of tho Y. M. C. A.
Irwins athlotlc oaroor hiifl boon 
no less successful Ho has playotl 
varsity football for four years, and 
was captain of tho team during the 
Honson of 1921. His ability as a 
baseball player Is equally (dollar In 
quality. Ills performance behind tho 
hat, as well as on tho gridiron, la 
marked by coolnoss and tho ability 
to think straight in tlmo of emer
gency.
Al Is a mombor of tho Knppa Bigma Fraternity and of Dragon, tho 
'Senior Honorary.
Infinitely tho Bottor Part.
Let) thorn laugh when you sacrifice 
desire to duty. If they will. You have 
time and eternity to rejoice In.Theo
dore Parker______________________________
Middlebury Beaten 
in See-Saw Contest
Visitors Lead at End of Half 
But Lose, 51-47
Last Wednesday ovoning Motor 
Square Garden was tho setting for tho 
Carnegie Teeh-Middlobury College 
basket, ball game. With no more than 
four hundred spectators to wolocmo 
the bright yellow-jeraoyed Tartan 
players as they came on tho floor to 
opposo the blue and white from Ver
mont, Ben Lubics tossors entered the 
game determined to offset tho reverse 
outcome of their trip to the middle 
west.
The game as a whole was slow and 
uninteresting in the technique of 
basket ball, and the only feature that 
gave it excitement was the see-sawing 
of close leads in scoring nil during 
tho game. Three times during the ir
regular scoring, the Middlebury boys 
took tho lead by a point or two and 
up until the final whistle blew tho 
spectators expected that an extra 
period would be required to play off 
the continued tie.
At the end of the half the New Eng
landers notched ahead of the homo 
team by a lone point, 21-23, but they 
became lost for a minutes after the 
opening of tho second half when Gib
son and Matter dropped ball after ball 
through the basket, giving the Tar
tans a comfortable load.
Near the end of the game when the 
score stood favorably by one foul 
point, Jimmie Anderson, assisted by 
Nowmnn and Matter, pushed his way 
down the floor and tallied the two doclslvo baskets that put his team on 
safe ground. Jlmmlo, while acting 
captain, netted tho most, field goals 
and repeated his work of the Michi
gan Agglo game.
Mofort and Goodwin took turns as 
roving guards during tho first halt 
and Mofort played In a stationary 
guarding position for tho remainder 
of tho gamo.
Captain Leonard did the stellar 
work for tho visitors by piling up 27 
of tholr -17 points. On account, or in
juries, Loonard had boon out of tho 
last few games on tho Middlebury 
trip and that Is sulllclont explanation 
for tho loss of thoBo gamos.
The lineup:
Carnegie Tocli51. MIddlobury47.
Anderson (A. C.) .F......................Axtoll
Matter ....................F..................... La mho
Newman ................C.................. Silcorskl
Gibson .....................G.................. Holquist
Mofort........................G. Loonard (Capt.)
SubstitutionsGoodwin for Mofort, 
Mofort for Nowman, Newman for 
Goodwin, It. Ttloo for Axtoll, Axtoll 
for It. Itlco, W. Rloo for Lambo, 
Lainbo Cor W. Itiooi Hardy for Lambo, 
Field goalsAndorson 8, Matter 7, 
Nowman 2, Gibson fi, Axtoll 3, Lambo 
3, W. Rico, Slkorakl <1, Loonard 5. 
Foul goalsMatter, 7 out of 1C; Loon
ard, 15 out of 20, OftlolnluSlack 
and Woltzol, alternating as roforoo 
and umpire. Tlmo of quarters 10 
miaul,on.
Opportunities Ever Pronont.
Mon can bo as original now as over 
II* they had but tho eourago, oven tho 
Insight. Heroic souls In old times had 
no more opportunities than we have 
but they used them. There wore dnr 
Ing deoda to be dono thenare thoro 
none now? Wrongs to bo reilrossed-- 
aro there none now?Charles lvlnj{s 
ley.
A Series of Sermons
SPECIAL INVITATION TO STUDENTS 
SUNDAY MORNINGS
ELEVEN O'CLOCK
The Seven Lamps of Architecture
Jesus Said:
Which of you intending to build a tower sitteth 
not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he 
hath sufficient to finish it.
SUNDAY, JANUARY 14
THE LAMP OF TRUTH
SUNDAY, JANUARY 21
THE LAMP OF POWER
SUNDAY, JANUARY 28
THE LAMP OF BEAUTY
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 4
THE LAMP OF LIFE
SUNDAY FEBRUARY 11
THE LAMP OF MEMORY
8UNDAY, FEBRUARY 18
THE LAMP OF OBEDIENCE"
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
HUGH T. KERR, D.D., Pastor 
Amberson Avenue, Between Fifth and Ellsworth Avenues.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY. JANUARY 10, 1923
ALUMNI PAGE
Alumni Invited to 
Attend Junior Prom
Committee Asks That Checks 
Be Sent in Promptly
The Junior Prom. Committee ex
tends tlie invitation to the Alumni of 
Carnegie Tech to attend the annual 
ball. Each year more of the Alumni 
are sharing in the joys oC the under
graduate and it is hoped that this 
year will prove no exception.
In order that dinners and favors 
may be provided, it is requested 
tbat all those who intend to go to 
the Prom send $8.50 to E. M. John
ston care Theta Xi House, 4902 
Forbes street. Pittsburgh, Pa. Make 
all checks payable to E. A. Berglund, 
Treasurer.
The Junior Prom will be held at 
the Hotel Schenley, Friday evening, 
February 2. The Nelson-Maple Or
chestra will furnish the music. See 
first page of this issue for further 
information.
TRY TEXAS MOTOR OIL
For easy starting in cold weather. 
It flows freely even at zero. 
Acorn Storage Battery Co., 
4521 Forbes Street, Near Craig 
Phone Schenley 4545.
Auto Accessories.
FUNDS FOR ABROAD 
Successful armies must 
maintain their lines of 
communication. Likewise 
successful travelers. Mel
lon Travelers Checks and 
Letters of Credit assure a 
reliable connection with 
home resources while 
abroad. It is the RIGHT 
way to carry funds.
Mellon Naiional Bank
Oliuer^lue.& Smvthfield
IPIff
Campaign For Subscriptions 
to Thistle Closes This Week
The Thistle sale must close this 
week, due to the fact that all the ma
terial must be taken to press, and the 
exact number of sales must be count
ed on by the 15th of January. This 
leaves only this week to hand in your 
subscription. The price is only $4.50, 
but the book this year will far sur
pass all the previous books ever put 
out. Write the Thistle Sales Mana
ger, C. I. T. Post Office. In case of 
mailing send in twenty-five cents ex
tra to cover the charges of mailing.
DEAN TARBELL GIVES
DEFICIENCY REPORT
In a report to the Executive Board, 
Dean Tarbell, as chairman of the Com
mittee on Student Activities, gave an 
interesting summary of the scholastic 
standing of students in activities for 
the first half of the first semester. Be
low is a list of the major student or
ganizations which were active during 
the fall season, showing percentage 
in bad standing:
Percent in Bad 
Athletic Standing
Varsity Football ......................... 16.2
Freshmen Football .................... 11.8
Non-Athletic.
Student Council ..............'.......... 0
Board of Student Activities.. 11.1
Athletic Council ......................... 0
Officers of Four Senates......... 7.28
Publications: Editor in Chiefs, 
Managing Editors, Business 
Managers and Art Editors.. 12.5
Class Presidents ......................... 12.5
Carnegie Musical Clubs______ 16.S
C. I. T. Band .................................. 8.3
Cheer Leaders ............................. 16.7
Is the College Man as 
Bad as He is Painted?
LOST AND FOUND
Articles found in the buildings or 
on the grounds of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology should be turned 
in promptly to the receiving office in 
the basement of Central Building, and 
inquiries about lost articles should be 
made at the same place.
(Signed)
GEORGE E. A. FAIRLEY, 
Supt. of Buildings and Grounds.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Choice of a Career
From the Yale News
mm
THE NINETY-FOUR
. Someone, probably an insurance 
agent, was quoted recently as saying 
that from the mass of one hundred 
college graduates one individual only 
rose to the Polo and butler class, peril
ously near the top of the financial lad
der. Five others became comfortably 
off and found themselves after twenty 
years at the small yacht and chauffeur 
stage. The other ninety-four presum
ably congregate in the great section of 
the American people who drive their 
own Buiclcs to the golf club. In other 
words, dreaming about being a rich 
man is one thing, and making the grade 
is something else again.
Yet the ninety-four presumably work 
just as hard as the sumptuous six. Their 
business is the axis on which a small 
and uninteresting world revolves. They 
have bccome devotees of the dollar 
and when that fickle deity deserts, have 
nov/here else to turn. Jammed in a 
dull, straight rut of business they can 
never leave the road and jump the fence 
into finer fields of life. This, then, is 
the portion of nineiy-four men out of 
every hundred now on the campus.
The answer to the problem lies in 
the proper choice of a career.
If there be one subject that has 
aroused discussion to a greater extent 
than Prohibition during the present 
and previous years, it is the college 
student. His actions, his manner
isms, his practices and diversions 
have afforded topics of paramount in
terest to those who would constitute 
themselves a tribunal of judgment 
upon his conductand in this con
nection it might be mentioned that 
the few who refrain from expressions 
of opinion in the student controversy 
are noticeable only for their fewness. 
We have been told that the under
graduate is spineless, we have been 
warned that he is headstrong; we 
have been informed that he is extrav
agant, and the next word that w 
hear is that he is parasitic; we learn 
that he is suited best for social teas, 
only to be assured in the next breath 
that lie devotes all his time to ath
letics to the neglect of his studies 
and social welfare. His recreation is 
held up to contempt; and his at
tempts at serious application to de
rision. His life, according to the crit
ics, is a continuous round of seeking 
after pleasure and his lectures merely 
a cloak, and a means by which lie con
trives to dissipate his allowance and 
to waste his hours under the guise of 
one pursuing a degree. In short, if 
we placed faith in all we read we 
should be forced to the conclusion 
that the student constituted  social 
anachronism.
Notice is not taken of the fact fcliat 
the college student is peculiarly sit
uated; that, though he is spending, lie 
is sometimes earning. His position 
in a difficult and lax environment is 
ignored. The opportunities open to 
the average collegian for enjoyment, 
and the absence of restraint receives 
scant acknowledgment. The vast ma
jority of university men, who carry 
themselves in the most exemplary and 
sedate fashion, are overlooked in the 
attention given to the noisy, profli
gate minority, prevalent in every 
walk of life, which abandons itself 
to three or four years of hilarity. 
Articles printed in the daily press 
would have us believe that the ob
ject in coming to college was to pass 
a few sessions in an agreeable free
dom, in fearful anticipation of the 
years of toil awaiting us after grad
uation; in other words, a method of 
\ respite from the world of affairs 
| which threatened to engulf the unwill
ing matriculant.
Despite all endeavors to convince 
us that the college student is a con
tradiction within himself, we have suf
ficient faith in his parents who raised 
him, in the professors who teach him 
and in the man within him, to rogard 
his future, not with despair, but with 
confidence. After all the student is a 
human being; lie may react, as is to 
be expected, when tested under ex
acting circumstances, as is the cano 
at a university. He was a schoolboy 
before his entrance to the institution 
of higher learning; upon his depar
ture he will assume a station in the 
business or professional life of his 
community, of that we may rest as
sured. In the meantime he is pass
ing through a period of transitionan 
interim which may certainly alter 
phases of his character, but which, 
surely, can hardly effect permanent 
changes in his makeup, so as to des
ignate him, once and for all, as a 
species distinct from those who have 
not attended lectures.From the Mc
Gill Daily, of December 2, 1922,
Kilts Fund Needs More Hornbostel Designs 
Money; Get Your Name Here ,nteri()r Qf
Between now and Commencement 
we shall have something to offer on 
the subject of Careers. Watch for 
the space with the Famous Signature.
ESS
PAGE TWOHCRWNE IDSYRW,W
or Boston. Massachusetts
*
*
*
Aufkammer & Evans 
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
*
Its a long, hard pull, but if we live 
long enough and work hard enough 
well get the Kilt Fund wagon to tlio 
top of the hill.
Make a check or money order out 
to G. L. Tiibroolc, treasurer, and mark 
it Kilties. Get behind and push and 
watch your name appear on the list 
below:
O. E. Brenot, Mrs. George R. King, 
O. E. Bee, F. A. Lind, John D. Spauld
ing, E. G. Peterson, Paul F. Mauqr, 
George E. Smith, H. R. Auerswald, 
Mrs. I. I. I-Iaruack, Hugh Brady, Ho
mer Sinclair, L. H. Lee, G. L. TilCarnegie Professor Renowned 
For Architectural Work
Bill Says;
BILL AGAIN ENTREATS
YOU TO ATTEND CHAPEL
Henry Hornbostol has long boon 
connected with the progess of Car
negie Tech especially in connection 
with the design of its buildings. His 
latest achievement oc especial inter* 
est to the students is the design of 
the decorations of the new Commons. 
During the past week a great many 
students admired the decorations of
^r:Konv.^aR1s,Bos;;o|ti-,co,-,'s but ni>;  po.- . I. .I ......... ... . centage are personally acquainted
Each Thursday noon a black mark 
is registered against the students and 
consequently against Carnegie Tech 
as a school. Some prominent clergy
man of Pittsburgh is asked to givo 
a little talk to the students and fac
ulty at the weekly chapel services. 
Naturally, as the preacher sits in the 
front oC the Little Theater awaiting 
the time for the opening of the exor 
clses he expects the Little Theator 
(which only seats about four hun
dred) to fill up for he knows that Car
Ftakelhor, M R Walton Miss A.j ";u T,L'C" ot '
Hlbbs, K. H. B. Julian, P. Miller, ,1. tUe ^ clmnge Thogo 0( ^ throe thousand students.
dent who know ProE. Hornbostel, | The services open and they are
link his name up not. only with the ] concluded, yet only fifty or seventydesign of the various buildings on 
Carnegie campus, not only with the
decoration of the Commons, but far
M. Orr, A. J. Hynd, Gertrude Baton. 
Althea I. Burch, T. C. Kindle, David 
R. Reid, E. F. Lundeen, E. P. Poste, 
H. S. Te^fer, Harold P. Greenwald, 
Edger F. Obert, E. J. Hedlund. A. M. 
Cooper, W. H. Bennett, Charles L.
Yost, Helen Lewis, Ornce Little Ilaus' j mrre 'vUh to** f,the IS* " 
halter, James J. Haushalter, John I W months go, when the good 
Kentlein, E. A. Graham, Carl Reid,
Charles W. Gibbs. G. W. Todd, Golda 
M. Hauinger, Walter N. Flanagan, E. 
Gray Merrill, Buffalo Clan, Charlotte 
Smith, B. H. Walratli, Mary Landis 
Wallace, Mrs. Jane Linderman Cole, 
P. A. Gartshore, E. Clifton Wilson, 
Marie E. Metzger, Horace Johnson, 
Edward Johnson, Frances Roberts, 
John Towns, Octave Schnurer, R. E. 
Welty, Sue F. Smith, John B. Moore, 
Jean M. Bakin, H. G. Nicliol, John F. 
Sweeney, C. B. Coe, John W. Savage, 
Alfred W. Grieb, George T. Barnesley, 
Helen Black, F. R. Cogswell, C. T. 
Meyers, Albert Henderson, Dr. A. A. 
Iiamerschlag, Joseph A. Hubbard, C. 
C. Manchester, II. A. Hedlund, M. A. 
Zeller, A. R. Brock, Edna C. Smith, A. 
II. Weltz, Henry Shaub, J. P. Bailey, 
W. R. Miller, P. W. Emmel, R. Davis, 
H. Nienian, R. M. Ward, H. Styri, R. 
B. Coldren, W. P. Lippincott, P. W. 
Schmidt, L. E. Exline, Florence Langworthy, Dorothea Steinmacher, F. S. 
Bloom, Janies W. Daugherty, Robert 
Finlcellior, W. H. Norman, Octave 
Schnurer.
news that the Carnegie Corporation 
had made appropriations for a new 
gym, Henry Hornbostel, architect for 
Carnegie and professor of architec
tural design in the College of Fine 
Arts, began work 011 the design of the 
new gymnasium. Plans were sub
mitted lor the building of the gym 011 
the original sito in the rear of the 
College of Fine Arts. The site was
five students and faculty combined 
luive been there to hear the line, ad
dress or sing a couple of hymns. Only 
FIFTY OUT OF THREE THOUSAND 
of the students are willing to take 
twenty minutes of the 110011 hour once 
a week to better themselves.
Each week these thoughts run 
through the mind of the author as ho 
is surrounded 011 all sides by a few 
students but mostly by empty seats. 
He wonders what the speaker of the 
day thinks and wonders what kind of 
an opinion of Carnegie Tech he will 
take away with him. Ho wonders
ARTSBALL TITLED
KAPERS AT KARNAK
SOPH-PLEBES SIGN TRUCE
FOR PLEBE BANQUET
(Continued From Page One.) 
the mid-year exams. It was this 
hunch that prompted the Sophs to 
capture the three Ple'be presidents, 
Bob Beil of Industries, Edwin Mills 
of Science and Earl Wheeler of Arts, 
last Thursday and keep them in hid
ing over the week-end. Saturday 
noon the question of further activity 
was talked over and those concerned 
agreed to sign the armistice and pay 
careful  attention to their school 
work to make up for the lost time.
The week-end party of the Plebe 
Presidents and Soph guards was a 
success in every way. The house in 
which they stayed had fourteen rooms, 
and the Carnegie Tech crowd used 
three of the rooms on the third floor. 
They played cards, smoked incessant
ly, shot p'ool, went to bed at two in 
the morning and got up at twelve 
noon. On Friday night the three 
presidents took an oath not to try to 
escape so from that time on they 
were given the freedom of the house. 
That gave the w'hole bunch an oppor
tunity to get acquainted with the 
family. The interest in getting ac
quainted prob-.ibly came from the fact 
that the family boasted of three at
tractive daughters: Beil and Mills
got such a stand-in with the girl: 
that the Sophs had to ask twice be
fore they could get the girls to give 
them a dance. No doubt most of the 
standing was the result of the wom
an-like manner in which they, washed 
the dishes for the crowd.
(Continued From Page One.) 
man, Hank Moesser; advisory chair
man, Charlotte Sliuman; assistants, 
K. OCallahan, J. W. Fritz, Donald 
McGervey, Thelma Leatherman, Cora 
Pitcairn, Chuck Cooper, J. Delo, Ii. 
Ratlnnan, M. Dale t3ni.lt h.
Construction Committee-Chairman. 
Clifford A. Lake; assistant chairman, 
H. C. Kreisle; assistants, John F. 
Taylor, George Brink, George Pope, 
W. O. Pylo.
Costume Committee  Executive 
Chairman, Elizabeth Sowersby; ad
visory chairman, George Heppenstal; 
assistants, W. Adair, Ida Krause, 
Ruth George, Jean iSmitli.
Light CommitteeChairman, Hard
ing Thayer; assistant chairman, 
George Allison. .
Music CommitteeChairman. Ar
thur Kendrick; assistant chairman, 
Karl H. Snyder.
Banquet Committed  Chairman, 
John Todd; assistants, L. It. Turcotte, A. S. Vincent.
Publicity CommitteeChairman, J. 
N. Franklin; assistant chairman, Har
ry IT. Lefkourtz.
Social Committee'Chairman, Helen 
B. Johnson, assistant, John I-Iallain.
TransportationChairman, C. F. 
Bowers.
Committee in Charge of Plobes 
Chairman, E. O. Anderson.
Secretarys CommitteeChairman, 
Dorothy Texter; assistants, W. F. 
Koppcs, Dorothy SilimalhorEt.
Entertainment Committee  Chair
man, Ross Hertz; assistants, Mary 
Brown, Obie Newman, Jack Burns.
Post Ball Dance:Chairman, Victor 
Stromquist; E. P. Couse, Dick Barn
hart.
A Tragedy
Tenderly she took the still white 
form from his arms and laid it beside 
those which had gone before. . Cold 
drops of perspiration gleamed on her 
forehead as she looked furtively about 
her. Suddenly a sigh escaped from 
her trembling lips. Then silence. 
Presently another sigh, more heartrendering than the first, seemed to 
well up from the very depths of her 
soul.
My Gawd, but these college guys 
sure do have lots of laundry! she re
marked as she surveyed the bundles 
of clothes piled about her.Punch 
Bowl.
Plebs Presidents was that this agree
ment is something that is badly need
ed and should be strictly carried out 
both this year and in future years, 
thereby preventing involuntary ab
sence from classes which drastically 
interfere with scholastic standing. 
Up to this time it has been custom
ary for the Plebes to cut classes on 
the Thursday and Friday preceding 
the banquet to avoid falling into the
changed and now plans for the now hoW long it will take, through the 
location have now been completed, weekly visits of the prominent Pittathrough the hard and consistent wdrk burgh pastors, to establish a black 
of Prof. Hornbostel. I mark against tlio name of Carnegie
Carnegie Tech is not alone in bene* 
fitting by the great work of this re
nowned architect. The City or Pitts
burgh is daily being made more beau
tiful by the erection of buildings that 
are the product of his design studio.
Henry 1-Iornhostels renown on the 
Carnegie campus lives, among his per
sonal acquaintances, in his personal
ity, and among the students who are 
not acquainted with him in the ar
chitecture and decorations of the 
buildings of the school.
Prof. Aske and several other mem
bers of the Arts faculty will also offer 
designs for the Interior of the com
mons.
ARCHITECTS ENNUI PUT TO 
ROUT BY THRILLING
PEANUT SNAPPING BOUT
(Continuod from Pago One) 
tlio intorest in the coming contest 
waxed oven to a dull rod, and finally 
to a white heat. It is reported, though 
the writer does not take the responsi
bility for tills unbelievable statement, 
that as much as aovontoon (17) cents 
was wagered 011 the oncountor by 
reckless enthusiasts. It just goes to 
show Avhat excitement will do to a 
person!
The Glorious Game.
The day oi tlio momontous occa
sion, as thoy say In the dimo novols, 
dawnod bright and clear. Excitomont 
was in ovldonco crvorywhoro, and tho 
drafting room was crowded to capac
ity with the bloodthlrsly spectators. 
As Manager Brockman loai| M! cham
pion into tho ring It was easy to see 
that Mac was In tho plnlc of condition, 
and It would takd a world boater to 
beat thoso Iron jaws and thorn un
wavering eyes. Tho challongor, llody 
PattoVson was said by Manager 
Franklin to liavo sprained a ear mus
cle and tho odds roso against him to 
a considerable dogroe.
Ha, whats thisthoy'ro off! With 
torrlble accuracy tho Pride of Kentuoky chucks up a peanut)one snap, 
and she floats straight betwoon his 
teeth. The Kid follows suit, wavers 
a bit, but gets under it I11 time. Mac 
heaves up another, misjudges it; it 
bounces off 0110 side of his nasal pro
tuberance, carroms to his Adams ap
ple, and falls to the floor. A miss! 
The Kid is under a terrible strain, but 
catches the nextso does The Pride. 
On the fatal fourth the Kid catches 
a glimpse of a skirt fluttering by tho 
Tech that can not easily bo erased, 
Not only for your own sake, but 
for tho salco of THE GOOD NAME 
OF CARNEGIE TECI-I como around 
to chapel tomorrow and every Thurs
day to come.
FACULTY CLUB BLOWOUT
SCHEDULED FOR FRIDAY
Friday evening, .Tanuary 19, tho 
Faculty Club will hold opon liouso 
for tho Faculty and Administration 
in tho Faculty Club Room and Car* 
noglo Union. Tho music of tho 
evening will be furnished by tho Tar
tan Entertainers. Dancing, biidgo, 
pool and billiards will furnish 
amusement,
The committee is composed of Pro
fessor Kirkpatrick, chairman; Pro
fessor Ilowor, Professor Lolghon, Pro
fessor Potter, Dr. Lang, Profossor 
LIghtcap, Profossor Ambrose, Pro
fessor Ellis and Major Gordon.
There will bo 110 assoSHinont.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
door, his oyos wander, and lie la lost! 
Score tied, gentsgot back and givo 
the oliamps uomo air! Words cannot 
doaorlbo tho awful soono that fol
lowed. Amid silence that would, liavo 
done credit to a joint Irlsh-Froo 
Stato convontlon the loud breathing 
of tho contestants could bo hoard 
about tho Iron ollclc of tho jaws that 
onvolopod tho unfortunato poanut. So 
It wont, with novor a mlaa up to the 
twenty-fourth and noxt to last poanut, 
Tho Kid throws It up with trembling 
hands, but Ills nerve Is starting to 
glvo under tho strain. Somo specu
lator who evidently had monoy on 
the champion lots out a weird yowl: 
of Hero comes Sterny." At once a 
ghastly look comeg ovor tho Kids 
facelie snaps too soonand misses! 
Cursos, tlio day is lost and The Pride 
of Kentucky Is still champion!!
Kell vn. Tho Prldo.
To describe tho Koll-Mao match 
would be equally harrowing. Space 
will not permit mo to give tho awful 
details, but sulllce It to say that 
The Prldo still holds his title against 
all comers, and wears a golden poa
nut upon his watch chain.
The admiring drafting room Is In
tending to shortly present the Champ 
with a necklace of platinum peanuts, 
with the love and affection of the 
Loyal Order of Peanut Snappers.
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, P,. F. D. No. 24, Soutli Akron, O. 
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, William S. Bennett, 722 Prospect Avenue. 
CHICAGOSecretary, I. S. Stark, 1552 Bast 63rd Street. 
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street. 
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue. 
DETROITSecretary, H. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. IConnerth, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street. 
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street. 
HARTFORDActing Secretary, C. V. Carlson, Box 1320, care Lon
don & Lancashire Indemnity Company.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E. 
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wallace, 641 Horner St. 
LOS ANGELESActing Secretary, Mrs. Inez Ileacock Pille, 865 
East Fifty-first Street.
Do You Need Extra Courses?
Send for catalog describing over 400 courses in History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics,
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by correspondence. Inquire 
how credits earned may be applied on present college program.
lie luiuerstUj of Cttijiragn
HOME STUDY DEPT.CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
TV' MONONGJ^A VALLEY-Secretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washinghold them any time after their last Avenue, Charleroi, la.
The unanimous opinion of the thrde* class Thursday. NEW GASJ.LE Acting Secretary, I. W. Marcean, 202 Shenanfjo St.
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
chester Park, Tuckahoe, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, W. H. Sands, 814 Brandon Avenue. 
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute o Tech
nology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St. 
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, II. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg. 
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott, 65 East Earl Street. 
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 
1422 A Vick Avenue.
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
Our restaurant Is now entirely remodeled. A FORMER TECH 
student promises, you the best food, served from the cleanest and best 
equipped kitchen In the Schenley district. You'll like our prices, too.
Dauths Restaurant
Luther G. Dauth, Prop.
4527 FORBES STREET
iig/3HSJ5JESHSI^Har3SMBH5/SESHS/55EM5/BM5/5EJ5J5/SJSHSJSJ5J5H5/5/Si2/SJSH
LATEST STYLES
FORMAL DRESS 
At Lowest Price 
In City
$3-50
Dress Suit Rental 
Company
404 PITTSBURGH LIFE 
BUILDING 
PhoneSmlthfleld 294
A complete line of the 
most beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
The FlavorLasts
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Rosorve System
Capital.............................$200,000.00
Surplun nnd Undivided
Profit..........................IJ1300,000.00
Dopoiiltu, Ovor - - - !M,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXE8 
FOR RENT
iipiSMiSlJSJ
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUT8 
Five Bnrbcrs at your service. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS
iMi3/S/cl/c?/DlTn!iDi/iiI/t3/D]f3/eyt3/i3/c!JDlJS/iel/cl/cii]
i!llllllll[||l!llllllllll!llllllll!llllllllll| 
 Compliments |
of I
Skibo Inn 1
BUY a Corona on our 
$5.00 a month plan. 
Phono no NOW for a ireo 
dcmoruitrution.
Standard Typewriter Co. 
129 5th Ave. Court 343.
ManayO
 Th Personal. Writing Machine'
