BOOST FOOTBALL 
EVERY MAN INj 
ATHLETICS(Jaran
SUPREMACY 
CONTEST FRIDAY 
ATHLETIC FIELD
VOL. XII. NO. 1CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIASEPT. 18, 1917
PROF. STEVENS PRODUCING PAGEANT AT HUNTINGTON TO AID RED CROSS
Part Suggested by Tech Man; 
Rest is Tech War Pageant. 
Students Will Aid
STARS IN THE CAST
Mr. Thomas Wood Stevens, head of 
.the Drama Department, is very busy 
working on the Natnonal Red Cross 
Pageant, which will be given in a 
large open-air amphitheater at Hunt
ington, Long Island, on October 5.
The scenario of the first half was 
suggested by Joseph Lindon Smith, 
before he left for Europe. Mr. Stevens 
wrote the words and is producing the 
show with the aid of a wonderful 
.group of American stars. This half 
is quite spectacular and will be very 
effective.
Mr. Stevens  Tech' War Pageant, 
which has been praised by enthusias
tic audiences in Pittsburgh, Chautau
qua and West Virginia, will be used as 
the second half of the program.
The Pageant will be produced under 
the direction of Mr. Stevens, assisted 
by B. Iden Payne. The scene direc
tors are Ben Ali Haggin, Mrs. John A. 
Carpenter, Paul Chalfin and Mrs. 
Harry Payne Whitney. The produc
tion committee consists of E. H. 
Sothern, Daniel Frohman and Evan 
Evans. Daniel Frohman is nominally 
in charge of the casting, assisted by 
Mir. Stevens. The cast will consist of
H. Sotliern, Ethel Barrymore, Hol.brook Blinn, George Arliss, Edith 
'Wynne ' Mattliison, Helen Ware, 
Blanche Bates, Francis Starr, Mar
jorie Rambeau, Robert Edeson, How
ard Kyle, Julie Opp and Vincent Ser
rano.
Mr. Stevens will take about 20 stu
dents from the Dramatic Department 
along to coach and train the groups 
representing the various countries. It 
will give them a splendid chance to' 
understudy the noted men and women 
who will take the speaking parts. No 
seat will be sold under $10. A film 
will be taken of the performance and 
sent tovarious moving picture houses 
.throughout U. S. A. It is expected 
that at least a quarter of a million 
dollars will be raised by this means 
for the Red Cross.
TECH RED CROSS UNIT WILL CONTINUE WORK
The Tech Unit of the American Red 
Cross was organized last spring. A 
number of hospital garments were fin
ished, and the work of surgical dress
ings was started. From the proceeds 
of the Red Cross Ball, held in the foyer 
of the Music Hall, $100 was sent toheadquarters as the first donation in 
the city to Red Cross Subscription 
Week.
The unit hopes to carry on this work 
and also make comfort-kits, sweaters, 
'mufflers, and wristlets for the Tech 
men who enlist or are drafted. The 
officers of the organization are:
President  .........Anna McCandless
Vice president___Kathryne Stewart
Secretary .................. Bernice Kruger
Treasurer ......................... John Todd
***************** 
4* *
* FOOTBALL +
VO LLLL.X VI
4 Every man who is at all able 4* 
4* should try out for the football * 
4 team. Each candidate will report 4* 
4* at the Gym to Manager Mankel, 4 
4* to one of his assistants, or to 4* 
4* Trainer Munhall, as soon as he is 4* 
4* registered, and he will be given 4* 
4* a locker and material. This work 4* 
4* mtist be done on Registration 4 
4* Days or on Thursday and Friday, 4* 
4* so that practice; which will prob4* 
4* ably begin Saturday, may go on 4* 
4* unhampered when once started. 4* 
4* Men who wish to try out for 4* 
4* any of the assistant manager4* 
4 ships should report to Mankel at 4* 
4* once. There are to be two first 4* 
4 assistants, and any number of 4* 
4 second assistants. 4*
4* 4*
J*4,i,4*4*4,4,4,4*4*4,4,4,4,4,4*4*
NEW GIRLS DORMITORY IS NAMED FORGES HALL
Dorm Will Hold Sixty Two 
Girls Under Miss Stocking
This year sixty-two girls,. thirty-six 
in the new annex, twenty-eight in the 
old Kuhn residence, will make their 
homes in the new dormitory, Forbes 
Hall on Forbes street. The Hall, lo
cated conveniently . near the schools 
and Library, is delightful not only 
from a sanitary viewpoint, but from 
an esthetic one also. A broad drive
way winds through green terraces up 
to the hospitable porch of the ivy-cov
ered mansion. The spacious rooms 
are liberally sprinkled with windows.
Miss Stocking, who takes Miss Col
lets place in the Science Department 
of the M. M. C. S. will have charge of 
the girls at the Dom.
LAST YEARS HANDBOOKS GIVEN TO NEWCOMERS
Important Changes Prom 
Last Years Conditions 
Are Noted
Handbooks are to be given to the 
incoming class, as they were last year; 
but owing to uncertain conditions and 
lack of money it was thought inadvis
able to have new books printed, and 
so the extra ones left over from last 
year are being used. Since there is 
only a limited supply of these, and 
since the upper classmen already have 
copies which they received last year, 
the books will be given to Plebes only.
Since the handbooks were printed 
for last year, there are of necessity 
many things which will not apply to 
this year. These things are mainly 
concerned with the names of students 
holding office, etc.; also in several 
cases organizations have been aban
doned, and in one casethat of the 
Central Councila new body has been 
(Continued on Page Four.)
DRAMA STUDENTS TOUR IN TECH WAR PAGEANT
Chautauqua and West Vir
ginia Visited During 
Summer
Not among the least of the various 
summer activities of students of C. I. 
T. are to be counted the two trips 
made by The Drawing of the Sword 
Company to present that pageant to 
people far from Pittsburgh. It will be 
remembered that the pageant was 
written primarily for Registration Day 
by Mr. Thomas Wood Stevens, of the 
Department of Dramatic Arts of De
sign School, and produced on the even
ing of that day, June 5, in Techs Ath
letic Field, under the direction of Mr.
B. Iden Payne, of New York. It was 
repeated the following evening; the 
next week.it was given in Memorial 
Hall, the evenings of June 13 and 15. 
After the enthusiastic reception here 
in Pittsburgh, there were vague ru
mors about the pageant being taken to 
distant cities. But it was not until 
the last of June that the rumors grew 
into facts and Tuesday morning, June
3, found the members of "The Draw
ing of the Sword Company in East 
Liberty station, ready to depart for 
Chautauqua, N. Y. The pageant was 
taken there under the auspices of the 
Conference of the National Security 
League and State Councils of Defense, 
meeting at Chautauqua at that time. 
The Assembly Grounds were familiar 
to some of the students, but to the 
majority the place was new, hence 
doubly interesting. At first the atmos
phere of being fenced in depressed 
some of the liberty-lovers, but before 
long all had adapted themselves to the 
place and began to take advantage of 
(Continued on Page Three.)
NINE NEW MEMBERS INsSCIENCE FACULTY
To take the place of those who are 
missing from last years faculty, the 
following members have been added 
to the teaching force of the School of 
Applied Science:
H. K. Rubey, Acting Assistant Pro
fessor, R. R. Engineering.
Haakon Styri, Acting Assistant Pro
fessor of Metallurgy, C. I. T. 10.
Vern James, Instructor in Mathe
matics.
Charles W. Prine, Instructor in 
Physics.
W. II. Trumbauer, Instructor in 
English.
William F. Kamman, Instructor in 
Modern Languages.
J. Walter Horst, Instructor in Mod
ern Languages.
Grover C. Smith, Instructor of 
Chemistry.
J. L. OHara, Assistant to the Dean, 
School of Applied Science..
TECH CLUD RACKS DEAN CONNELLEY AS CANDIDATE FOR CITY COUNCIL
Letter Ssnt to Students and 
Alumni in City Asking 
for [Support
LUNCHEON IS COMING
Deaji Connelley, of the School of 
Applied Industries, is this year a can
didate for the city council of Pitts
burgh, subject to the non-partisan 
primaries, Wednesday, September 19. 
In his behalf some of the more prom
inent Pittsburgh members of the 
Alumni have organized the Connelley 
College Club, with an executive com
mittee of eighteen members, of which 
Graduate Manager J. R. Gearhart is 
secretary. The committee has sent 
letters, to all Tech men living in the 
city, stating: Dean Connelley was 
urged to enter the field on account of 
his prominence in educational circles, 
his interest in civic matters, and his 
sterling character as a man. Dean 
Connelley has been associated with the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology from 
its very beginning. He was a mem
ber of the planning committee and 
during the past eleven years has 
(Continued on Page Three.)
CHOICE OF LANGUAGES OFFERED NEW STUDENTS
French and Spanish as Elect
ives Will Decrease Study 
of German
In accordance with a recent action 
of the faculty of the School of Applied 
Science of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, students of the Plebe 
class wil be allowed to choose one of 
two courses in modern foreign lan
guage, as follows:
I.Those who have had both (a) 
two years of German and (b) two 
years of French in preparation may 
elect either:
1. German V (advanced German; 
reading of scientific German) or
2. French V (advanced French; 
reading of scientific French).
II.Those who have had (a) two 
years of German and (b) no French 
(or only one year of French) in prep
aration, may elect either
1. German V (advanced German;
(Continuel on Page.Two.)
MUSICAL CLUB AFFAIRS ARE STILL UNSETTLED
The Carnegie Musical Clubs expect 
to have their season as usual this 
year. Like every other school organ
ization, the clubs have suffered 
through loss of men during the sum
mer, especially because Carl Reid, the 
manager of the clubs, has been draft
ed. Consequently no tours for the 
club are definitely settled, but Swee
ney, president of the clubs, and Man
ager Gearhart are working on the 
proposition. They had a conference 
with Signor Scalzo last Thursday. No 
arrangements were made with him 
then,-but it is understood that he will 
direct as usual if it is at all possible.
MANAGERS MISSING IN THREE BIG ACTIVITIES
Vernon, Miller, and Reid not 
in School, Giving Chance 
for New Men
During the summer Tech has lost 
varsity managers from three big ac
tivities: Vernon from football. Miller 
from basketball, and Reid from the 
musical clubs. Bob Vernon has en
listed in the ordnance division, and is 
helping to build contonments for the 
national army in the South. Shorty 
Miller and Carl Reid were both 
drafted, the formers acceptance com
ing as a surprise since everyone 
thought that his heightor lack of it 
would bar him.
Vernons loss has been felt most, 
so far, because football arrangements 
should be under way, and Mankel, 
first assistant manager, has been out 
West. Now that the latter has re
turned and is going to be in school, 
he has, of course, succeeded to the 
managers position. Mankel, however, 
is greatly hampered by a' total lack of 
assistants; and there is a wonderful 
opportunity for any man who has had 
any experience to make one of the 
two first assistant managers jobs, or 
for anyone to make one of the second 
assistant positions.
In basketball, Pitts, first assistant 
manager, will probably succeed to the 
manager's position. In regard to the 
musical clubs, there is no definite ar
rangement, but there is some talk of 
transferring Olsen from his position 
in the Choral Club, which is to be 
abandoned for the present, to the 
Musical Clubs.
So far as is known, Todd, baseball 
manager, and Little, track manager, 
will both be in school.
FOOTDALL PRESENTS DIFFICULTIES THROUGH LUSS OF MEN AND GAMES
FOR PARK ENTRANCE
A traveling scholarship of $1,000 is 
at the disposal of the Department of 
Architecture, each year, through the 
generosity of an anonymous friend of 
the School of Design. This scholar
ship originated last June, through the, 
prize offered to the winner of a de
sign for the entrance of Schenley 
Park, locatod between the Ball Park 
and the Carnegie Institute. It was 
open only tr> the Architectural Depart
ment students who had completed four 
years of college work.
It was the opinion of the jury that 
the design'submitted by Bennett Cardwell should be awarded first place and 
the prize. His design had all the im
portant elements of the program lo
cated to the best advantage on the 
Irregular site. The detail of these 
elements was unusually well develop
ed. The plan of the main building 
was distinctly superior to those of the 
other competitors.
James P. Metheny was given the 
second rank. His design had the same 
general disposition of the principal 
elements, but these elements were not 
so well studied in themselves, except
ing the gardens, which were very 
good.
FOREIGN COUNTRIES REPRESENTED AT TECH
SPRING SPORTS SELECT CAPTAINS FOR SEASON
After the publication of the last is
sue of The Tartan last year, the spring 
sports selected their captains for the 
season of 1918. In baseball the honor 
went to Jimmy Doherty, the little fel
low who for three years has held down 
the job of short stop on the varsity 
team. Jimmy's playing has been con
sistently good with just enough pep to 
make the right kind of a leader. Do
herty is this year a Senior in the 
Commercial Engineering course of the 
Science School. In track the man 
elected to the captaincy was George; 
Ellerton, who last year did the heavy 
w!ork for Tech in the field events. El
lerton is the holder of the school rec
ord in the shot put. He is this year a 
Junior in Science. So far as is known, 
both of these men will be back in 
school this year.
If one hope fails, find another. 
Salena Sheets Martin.
Registration this year shows an in
creased number of students who have 
traveled many miles from foreign 
countries to attend Tech. Two Brit
ish colonials, John L. M. Stone and 
John W. G. Henderson, of Victoria, 
Australia, have already arrived and 
are established in one of the. (Tormitories. A. Winkler Prinz, a Dutch 
boy from Batavia, Java, left his home 
the last day of May, and after spend
ing two months on his way of over 
thirteen hundred miles, arrived in 
Pittsburgh the first of August. Since 
then he has been working for the 
Westinghouse Co. He expects to take 
electrical engineering at Tech.
Then there are two more Chinese 
holding government scholarships. Yen 
Chun Tai and Shen Kuang Mi are 
both graduates of the college in Pe
king. In addition there is' the usual 
large number of Canadians, Japanese, 
Brazilians, and some men from the 
Philippines and Porto Rico. The 
number of men from foreign countries 
will probably be over the hundred 
mark this year.
MEMORIAL MONUMENT IS PLANNED NEAR HORARY
The construction work now taking 
place beyond Carnegie Library, where 
Tech students were accustomed to 
see the old stone bridge, is due to the 
(Continued on Page Four.)
4* 4*
4 SUBSCRIPTION BOOKS 4 
4* --------- 4*
4 Each subscriber to The Tartan 4* 
4* has been provided with a book 4* 
4* containing thirty-six tickets. Each 4* 
4* ticket is good for one issue, the 4* 
4 distribution as in former years 4* 
4* being made by salesmen on Wed4* 
4* nesday of each week. However, 4* 
4* this year Tartans will positively 4* 
4* not be given out unless the sub4* 
4* scriber lias with him the correct 4* 
4* number in his book. 4*
4* It is also to be noted that the 4 
4* subscription books will be handy 4* 
4 things to carry, inasmuch as they 4* 
4* contain several blank pages 4* 
4* which may be used for inemor4* 
4* andums. 4*
4 4*
4. 44i4'4a4>4'
M. M. C. S. FACULTY HAS SEVERAL NEW MEMBERS
Practice Begins This Week 
With Only Two Veter
ansNeed New Men
STEFFANS *IS COMING
Dean Breed Returns After a 
Years Leave of Absence
Tired of the idle life, as she calls 
golfing, liorse-baclc riding, and Red 
Cross knitting, Dean Mary Bidwell 
Breed returned to M. M. C. S. much 
improved In health and prepared to 
take up the years work. She is very 
glad to. get back and the school wel
comes her home. Miss Breeds ab
sence last year was due to a physical 
break-down, the result of three years 
of overwork.
A number of changes will take place 
this Call in the M. M. C. S. faculty. 
Miss Collingwood, of the Household 
Economics department, who Is now 
Mrs. Evorliardt, of Forbes street, Is 
succeeded by Miss S. Jane Weber, of 
(Continue! on Pago Two.)
NEW COURSES PREPARE GIRLS FOR MENS WORK
Chemistry and Drafting In
cluded in New Intensive 
Training
Carnegie Tech will have a football 
team, but the problems that will have 
to be overcome before that team can 
be whipped into shape are enormous. 
Tech situation is as difficult as that 
of any college in the country, and much 
more difficult than most. Tech will 
have only two men returning from 
last years squad, McFeaters and 
Early; and of these two it is not cer
tain that McFfeaters scholastic stand
ing will allow him to play. There is 
also a bare possibility that Vet Wil
liams, sub end and tackle for the past 
two years, may) return. The fact that 
only these two men are available 
means particularly hard work in the 
formation of a backfield. With Ivesner in France, Finlay in the navy, and 
Marshall and Altdoerffer in training in 
this country, the latter in the band of 
the Eighteenth Regiment, there are . 
none of the regulars left, around 
whom a new combiimtion might be 
built. Early, however, showed re
markable promise last year when he 
sprang into prominence by scoring 
Techs touchdown against Pitt. Also 
word has come from one source or an
other that there are at least twelve 
men entering school whose work on 
high Bchool elevens was promising. 
Often that does not mean much, but 
It Is only by getting after every man 
in school who has any ability at all 
that there can be a team this year. .
Practlco will not bogln until the end 
of this woolc or the beginning of next. 
However, Manager Mankel hopes to 
got necessary material out of the men 
this week as soon as they register. 
Coach Steffens has not been able to 
como to Pittsburgh early for several 
reasons, bocause ho has been elected 
an alderman In Chicago and because 
there has boon an addition to Ills fam
ily. However, there is really nothing 
that ho could havo done If he had 
boon bore; It. would have been usoloss 
to hold training camp at Camp Louise 
(Continued 011 Page Three)
Two new courses will be offered In 
M. M., C. S. tills year besides the new 
secretarial course. Preparations are 
made for Intensive training In draft
ing and chemistry. Girls will como 
and do nothing but draft or study 
chemistry from 9 a. m.- until 4 p. m., 
so that by the end of from four to six 
months they will be able to take a 
mans position. The chemistry will 
be chiefly preparation for determining 
iron compounds, so the girls can work 
in the steel laboratories.
Since this country entered t/he war, 
it has only been a question of time 
when it would be obliged to follow the 
methods adopted by England and 
France in asking women to replace 
men wherever possible, so that the 
production work at home might not 
Continued on Page Four.)
SEVERAL SUCCESSFUL IN AVIATION TESTS
John II. Smith, a 1909 graduate of 
the courso in mechanical engineering, 
successfully passod the examination 
for the Aviation Corps and was recent
ly ordered to report to Ohio State Uni
versity at Columbus for Instruction. 
If ho passes through his training with 
credit, ho wifi) bo enrolled In the avia
tion section of the Reserve Officers 
Corps. Before enlisting he was em
ployed by the Westinghouse Machine 
Company.
Guy Kelcey, Science graduate, has 
been accepted for aviation service in 
the Canadian Army, and is now in 
training in Canada.
Carlton A. Parker, a 1914 graduate 
of the Industries School, is now in 
France as an inspector of aeroplanes 
in the U. S. Army.
MILITARY BRILL TO DE CONTINUED;MAY NECESSITATE SATURDAY SCHOOL
H. J. MCORKLE NOW IN SECOND OFFICERS CAMP
Tech Men are at Fort OglethoipeDr. Esquerre in 
Secretarys Office
Mr. H. J. McCorkle, probably one 
of the best known persons among the 
students of all four schools, will this 
year be missing from his place at the 
head of the Employment Office be
cause of his enlistment In the second 
Offcers Training Camp, Mr. Mc
Corkle applied for admission to, the 
camp early In the summer, his appli
cation was accepted, and training 
opened August 27 al. Fort Oglethorpe, 
Georgia. Mr. McCorkle Is a graduate 
:>f Science School; after graduation 
he served as assistant, first to Director 
Mamerschlag and then to Dean Leete, 
ind finally he was made head of the 
Student Employment Bureau, occupy
ing the office which before had been 
used by the secretary of the Institute. 
That office, for the present,, at least, 
Is; being occupied by Dr. Esquerre.
(Continued on Page Four.)
Course in Drill and Lectures 
Compulsory for Every 
Male Student
PROHIBITS UNIFORMS
Military drill is to be continued at 
Carnegie this year to run hour a day, 
five days a week. This decision was 
reached at a meeting of the executive 
council of the Institute, consisting of 
the director, the dean, and the officers 
of administration, held about; a week 
ago. According to the wording of 
their resolution, the work will include 
both military drill and setting up ex
ercises. When the weather makes 
It impossible to hold the out-of-door 
work, the course will be continued by 
lecture. Just who the drill Instructors 
and lecturers will be Is not known, as 
yet, since the details of the training 
have not been settled.
The chief! variation from last spring 
is the fact that the drill, as the result 
of the experience with volunteer work, 
has been made compulsory for every 
made student at Tech. This means 
that everyone will drill every morning 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Jamie Duch02570990

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TARTANTuesday, September 18, 1911
(Hlj? artan
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
Entered in the postoiflce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yoarly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
Business Manager
Phone Schenley 9107
EDITORIAL
. Managing Editor 
A. D. Bauor 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Editors
 Marguerite Bollinger 
Salome Stamm 
Design Assistants 
Ellen Orowo 
James Church.
Science Assistants 
L. K. Paquin 
Joseph Levin
H. R. Tumin 
K. L. Emerich
M. M. C. S. Assistants
Marguerite JIaldeman 
Margaret Lappe 
Anne McCandlass 
Lydia McCarthy 
Athletic Editor
BUSINESS 
Manager Mailing List 
H. R. Titus 
Circulation Manager 
W. F. Anderson 
Exchange Manager 
J. L. Herrman
TARTAN OFFICE.......................................................................R"l 1B2, Design
Hours5:30 to C: 00 WodneHdayB and Thursdays.
7:00 to 8:30 Wednesdays.
The Editor-ln-Chlot is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications shonld be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivory ot this paper or change or address should be reported 
at once.
tile signature to lie withheld if desired.
The Tartan -welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed.
All nows Items must he in the student postoiUce, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays. isS*'
HEART TO HEART
Last Spring Easter vacation brought with it the declaration of 
war. According to the catalogue ol the Institute, school was resumed 
a week later. As a matter of fact, so far as the students are concerned; 
school never has been resumed. What we called school for three 
months was to them frankly and openly a travesty. The attitude 
was perhaps natural. Many were enlisting; many more expected 
to be called in the draft ; all were excited. Confusion and absolute 
neglect of studies were the natural results, and re-examinations are 
many this fall.
In contrast to what actually existed, we have the situation which 
the Government desires to bring about. As Professor Follows said 
in an informal talk before vacation, America is going about this war 
as a business proposition. X might even go so far as to say that I 
would not advise the-majority of young college men like you to volun
teer. Let them wait until they are directed where to go and what to 
do. Efficiency, authority invested in the proper hands, business
like procedure, these arc the watchwordsutterly opposed to the 
confusion and neglect prevalent last spring.
What could be more logical than that attitude? We who are in 
college again this year have, under the circumstances, but one reason 
for beingherea desire to complete our education so that we may 
perforin for the nation those tasks which are impossible to untrained 
men. That reason does not demand the doing ttway with athletics, 
the giving up of all amusement; but it does demand work which is at 
least as seriously and earnestly done as it. would be ordinarily. Of 
course it is patriotic to be stirred when ones country enters into 
war, but it is far from patriotic to be so excited as to neglect the very 
thing whio.il will lie of the greatest benefit in the end. This school 
year must mean something to Tech men, now and old alike.
EVERY MAN IN ATHLETICS.
A fable. In a certain city there wore two colleges. And the one 
college had the greatest, football team in the country. The other had 
a good team too, for they held the first college to a fourteen-six 
score; and the thing they boasted of was the greatest school spirit in 
the country. And, behold, in the year of the great; war the first college 
lost all of its regular team. The second college lost none of its spirit, 
but they too lost their team. Then when the dust had cleared away, 
the bystanders looked, and they saw returning to the first school, 
eleven or more men who had been in their former spuad, but to the 
second school two men only. And it came to pass that in the course 
of time the two schools met. But what are two men and a lot of 
spirit against the llesli and blood of a football team?
Moral: Every man in athletics! Untrained men may be trained, 
but without any men at all nothing ean be done. Not only is that the 
moral of this poorly told fable, but also it is the burden of the song 
which every college in the country is drumming into the ears of its 
students. College athletics are possible now if and only if every stu
dent will take part in one or more of the sports.
Now the point of this whole talk is this. Manager Gearhart, 
badly hampered by lack of aid, is waiting only for some help before 
putting into operation a plan by which every man in school would be 
urged, encouraged, almost forced into some athletic activity. Perhaps 
the plan might be worked by making a campaign during which every 
man would be asked to pledge himself to one sport; if he cannot play 
football, let him choose some other. But surely Carnegie Tech, after 
its record of last year, is not, going to let football die a natural death 
liere. Now that the trained men are gone, ordinary students coilld not 
want a fairer elmnce or a greater opportunity. Teams have been 
made out of little material before, and they ean be again. Coach 
Steffens has done wonders before; he can again. Our spirit has 
helped before; it can do even more now, but it cannot, do all. Men arc 
needed. Whether or not anything comes of Manager Gearharts 
plan; whether or not any formal campaign is made or pledge asked; 
it is up to you to see Hint Tech gets those men.
thought to convince one that the weeks delay which the system pro
vides between nominations and elections will surely secure more care
ful thought and more intelligent voting at a time when more than 
ever we need the right man in the right place. For the benefit of 
the newcomers at Tech, be it said that the Tartan system of elections 
is merely this: nominations for any office are made as usual, but the 
election is not held until those nominations have been published in 
The Tartan, thus avoiding the possibility of foolish, hasty voting.
Mr. Tarbells return to his place in the registrars office after liis 
years work at Harvard is a welcome one. It is all the more welcome 
to Tech men since it brings to them a favorable comparison. Doesnt 
it make you feel good to think that Harvard, Yale, and Princeton 
are not going to play football, while Carnegie Tech, in spite of rigid 
scholastic requirements, slender opportunities for practice, and abso 
lute loss of veteran material, is not only going to play but is going 
to play both Cornell and Pitt, who for two years have had the 
strongest teams in the country? Doesnt it-, now?
Now that both members of the Merrill family have successfully 
passed beyond the scholastic rocks, the school must look elsewhere 
for a cheerleader. And that is no small task, for he must be a man 
who is capable of doing his large share in instilling in the student 
body the greatest school spirit in the country.
It is interesting to note the tendenoy to abolish the study of 
German in our educational institutions. Many schools have done 
away with it entirely, and Tech is following the general lead by 
offering in the Science School French, Spanish, and German options 
instead of requiring German.
Tech men are going to have more and more opportunity to do 
their bit. The blanks signed last year under the direction of Prof. 
Keller for the Intercollegiate intelligence Bureau are bringing re
sults. Mr. Tumpane has inquiries about men almost every day.
The new Central Student Council should be organized as soon aspossible. Never before has there been such need for an organization 
such as this, in order that system may eome out of chaos.
SECRETARIAL COURSE GIVES INTENSIVE WORK
College Graduates May Take 
This Training for Year 
in M. M. C. SJ
The Department of Secretarial 
Studies of the Margaret Morrison 
School announce a special One Year 
Course for 1917-1918, which will be 
open to graduates of approved col
leges and which will lead to the de
gree of Bachelor of Science. Women 
who are not graduates of colleges, but 
are at least twenty-three years of age 
and can give satisfactory evidence of 
iltness for secretarial work, will also 
be admitted to the classes, but will 
not be considered as candidates for 
the degree of Bachelor of Science.
Intensive training for two semesters 
in shorthand, typewriting, business 
correspondence, commercial law, book
keeping, business methods and com
merce, with options in accounting, 
oillceorganization, business organiza
tion, or methods of teaching, followed 
by six months supervised professional 
service makes the course very prac
tical.
The course Ills the woman to act in 
such important capacities as expert 
oillce assistant, business correspon
dent, department manager, private 
secretary, registrar and school secre
tary, bookkeeper and accountant, and 
teacher ol commercial subjects.
Miss Victoria Freethy, who is to 
have charge of the course, comes from 
Simmons College, Avhere a course sim
ilar to this one has been open to the 
college graduates for a number of 
years.
INDUSTRY MAN WRITES ABOUT AVIATION WORK
UPPERCLASSMEN.
Seniors, Juniors, Sophomoresremember that the Tartan system 
of elections was voted for by your class, and that it is still in force 
this year. Not only did you vote for it, but also in many elections 
for example, in that for members of the Science Senatethe Tartan 
system is required by the constitution of the school. It is your duty 
to see that that system is enforced.
This year because of the many absentees there may be a tendency 
toward haste in electing men to fill vacancies and in holding the regu
lar elections. Make haste slowly, It needs only a moments
Cary, in Charge of Engineer
ing Shops, Just Ready to 
Leave for France
The following letter has been re
ceived from Emmett F. Cary, last year 
a student in the Industries School: 
12th Aero Squadron, U. S. A.
Dayton, Ohio,
Sept. 10, 1917. 
Dean Connelley, S. A. I.,
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dear Dean Connelley:
I have been intending to write to 
you and tell you something about our 
wonderful life serving oftr country 
Yon always seemed to take an interest 
in us boys, and I feel that you would 
be interested in my experiences since 
I joined Old Glory.
My friend Birchlield and myself left 
Now Orleans after Carnival in our 
Hupmobile, intending to tour from 
New Orleans to Pittsburgh by way of 
Atlanta, Ga. We arrived in Atlanta 
ton days after our start. The roads 
were rotten, and most of our time was 
spent digging our buss out of the 
swamps, finding roads, and changing 
tires. We both got jobs in Atlanta, I 
with the Pierce-Arrow, and Birch, 
with a stationery house.
Then the climaxour country de
clared war on Germany. The next 
thLng for us to do was to sell our car; j 
we did. Then we enlisted, Birch in .! 
he Officers Reserve Corps, and I in 
the Aviator Section of the army. 1
took the peliminary exam in At 
lanta; then they sent me to Fort Mc
Pherson, Ga., and there is where real 
war life began. Very shortly after I 
arrived they started to teach us that 
cleanliness is next to godliness; the 
first thing we received was a bath. 
That night we slept on hay-stuffed 
ticks and in tents; it was a poor bunk 
for a fellow not being used to it.
The next morning after breakfast 
we took another bath, and the final 
physical exam; all but two out of 
forty passed. The following day they 
took our finger prints and photo; it 
seemed like a fellow was going to take 
a vacation for life at Sing Sing. The 
next day we were sworn in for the 
term of the war. Now we received 
what we longed for, our khaki duds. 
It took me about two hours to get into 
my new outfit (now I do it in two min
utes) and the only thing that fit me 
was the shoes strings.
The next day we were inoculated for 
typhoid fever and vaccinated for small 
pox. Then it was drill, drill, drill. 
Right face, left face, right dress, 
squads right, squards left, column 
right, about face, and all the other 
commands sound alike to the rookie, 
tout not alike to our drill corporal. 
I thought more of that corporaL then 
than I do of th general now.
Several days afterward I was put 
on Iv. P. (Military Police)that is, 
working in the kitchen; and I must 
truthfully say that I never in my life 
before washed so many pots and pans, 
scrubbed such an area of floor space, 
and served so many tables as I did 
that day. Every enlisted man gets his 
share of this work.
A few days afterwards we aviators 
were ordered to go to Camp Kelly, 
San Antonio, Texas, to the Provisional 
Aviation School. We had it rather 
tough for awhile; I think they were 
trying us out for hardships. Of all 
the pests I ever saw, I think it and its 
brother were there. I wish you could 
have seen and heard a supposed-to-be 
tough guy from Death Valley when a 
poor little innocent snake crawled 
into his bed to sleep with him. We 
had hot water at all times; we bathed 
in it, washed in it, drank it. The water 
came from a well.
We drilled some for several weeks; 
then a detail of men was picked to 
take instructions at the Third Aero 
Squadron. I was put in charge of this 
detail and, of course, made sergeant 
from buck private. A short time after 
this the Twelfth Aero Squadron was 
organized; I was then put in charge 
of its engineering shops.
Then the order came for us to go to 
the Wilbur Wright Aviation Field; it 
was a godsend. It certainly didnt take 
us long to get acquainted with real 
houses with roofs on them and real 
beds. The first thing for us to do after 
we arrived was to unload and assem
ble aeroplanes; now we have about 
thirty. Then came the question of 
equipping our shops. Here is where I 
was inclined to get the swelled head. 
Another young fellow and myself had 
full charge of ordering ninety thous
and dollars worth of tools and equip
ment for the engineering shops. I can 
assure you all of the valuable informa
tion that I gained at dear old Tech 
came in very handy, and I wished *that 
I had had more years at Tech. I am 
now in charge of all this work for the 
Twelfth Squadron.
We received orders yesterday to be 
ready to leave this camp by the 15th 
of September for foreign service. I 
can assure you that a more delighted 
bunch would be hard to find; all of us 
are crazy to go.
Hoping that dear old Tech will have 
a very successful coming year, and 
that all the Techites are as full of pep 
as ever, I am,
Yours very truly,
EMMETT F. OARY.
PLEBES MUST
+ 
* 
4*
* 
4* 
4* 
4*
First, procure their Plebe hats 
and their black ties and socks 
immediately. Tradition decrees 
that Tech customs begin as soon 
as a man is registered. Hats are 
On sale at a booth outside the reg4* 
istration room, under the direc4* 
tion of Manager Gearhart. 4*
Second, organize their classes 4* 
with the election of a temporary 4* 
chairman as soon as possible. A 4* 
much better showing will be 4* 
made in the supremacy contest 4* 
if'the classes are organized. 4* 
Third, attend and take part in 4* 
the Plebe-Soph Supremacy Con4* 
test on Friday afternoon at the 4* 
Athletic Field. These contests in
clude wrestling, field hockey, 4 
Indian ball, tilting in barrels, re4* 
lay races, tug-of-war, and per4* 
haps a baseball game. They are 4* 
und,er the supervision of Mr. Me4* 
Culloch and Mr. Eyman, assisted 4* 
by members of the two upper 
classes. After the contest there 4* 
will probably be a feed for the 4* 
newcomers, this being in the 
afternoon instead of the evening 
becase the Fall Festival will not 4* 
be produced. 4*
4*
*****+******+****
M. M. C. S. FACULTY HAS
SEVERAL NEW MEMBERS
(Continued From Page One.) 
Teachers' College, New York.
Miss Logan, of the Secretarial de
partment, who is now Mrs. Ray Boals, 
is succeeded by Mrs. Eva Salisbury, a 
a war bride from Norwalk, Mass. 
Miss Victoria Freethy, of Riverside,
111., is to conduct the new one-year 
secretarial course for college gradu
ates, and Miss Mary L. Powers, of 
Grand Rapids, will teach bookkeeping 
and accounting. Spanish is offered 
as a secretarial elective this year, but 
will be taught by the Spanish teacher 
from Science School.
The Science departments staff lias 
changed almost completely. Miss 
Collet, who was instructor in biology, 
is doing graduate work at the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania. Dr. Roe is teach
ing at the University of Iventuncky, 
in Lexington. Miss Speer, of the 
chemistry department, is now Mrs. 
Ralph Williams. Mr. Rush is teach
ing Sanitary Science in the Applied 
Science School exclusively. Mr. Lang, 
a M. I. T. graduate from the Depart
ment of Agriculture, in Washington, is 
to have charge of the biology work 
with Dr. Stocking, a Johns Hopkins 
graduate from Wells College, New 
York, to assist. Mr. Ira D. Gerard, 
from Columbia, is to assist Dr. Wat
kins in Chemistry. During the sum
mer. Dr. Watkins has been doing 
special government work in connec
tion with the poison gas investigations 
at the Bureau of Mines Builijing, and 
is to continue as consulting chemist.
Miss Helene Pope, of the Housebald Economics and Science depart
ments will teach Physiological and 
Food Chemistry. Miss Pope, during 
the summer, was appointed by Miss 
Jane Delano, of the' Red Cross at 
Washington, as one of the committee 
to determine the efficiency of dietetians for future war work in hospitals 
at home and abroad.
Miss Theodora Briggs, of East 
Grand Forks, Minn., will teach in the 
Costnme Economics Department.
Miss Mary Coleman, of South Bos
ton, Va., will take Miss Cavierlys 
place in the Department of Physical 
Education.
Dr. Malcolm McLoed, of the English 
Department used the summer interum 
to advantage. He brought back as his 
Wife Miss Florence Skinner, of Cam
bridge, Mass.
Miss Farnham, formerly of the So
cial Service Department, is now Mrs. 
Sherman Conrad.
CHOICE OF LANGUAGES
OFFERED NEW STUDENTS
(Continued From Page One.) 
reading of scientific German), or
2. French I (beginning course in 
French.
III.Those who have had (a) two 
years of French and (b) no German 
(or only one year in German), in prep
aration, may elect either
1. French V (advanced French; 
reading of scientific French), or
2. German I (beginning course in 
German.)
IV.Those who have had neither
(a) two years of French nor (b) two 
years of German (or only one year of 
either or both) in preparation, may 
elect either
1. French I (beginning course in 
French), or
2. * German I (beginning course in 
German).
Students will please note the fol
lowing conditions attached to elec
tions:
a. Those Avho elect a beginning 
course (French I or German I) in the 
Plebe year must continue, the same 
language through the Sophomore year.
b. Those who elect an advanced 
course (German V or French V) in 
the Plebe year may, in the Sophomore 
year, either (1) continue the-, same 
language or (2) elect instead either 
English III or Spanish I.
c. Those who contemplate taking 
the course in Chemical1 Engineering 
are expected to elect German (German 
V or German 1) in the.Plebe year.
d. Those who contemplate taking 
the course in Commercial Engineer
ing are advised to elect French 
(French V or French I) in the Plebe 
year.
No answer to this notice is expected 
at present. The above information is
CHURCH E
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 antf 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Parish Hall and Gymnasium, Craig: 
street.
THE FRIENDLY CHURCH 
GRACE CHURCH (Reformed) 
Four Blocks from Tech 
DITHRIDGE AND BAYARD STS.
FREDERICK C. NAU, Pastor. 
SERVICES:  Sunday School, 9:45- 
A. M.; Morning Worship and Sermon, 
11; Popular Evening Service, 7:45; 
Christian Endeavor, 7. Wednesday 
Evening at 8.
Atty. JOS. R. CONRAD teaches Men's 
Bible Class, 9:45, Sunday. 
Students! Make yourselves at home 
in Grace Church.
ST. ANDREWS EVANGELICAL 
LUTHERAN CHURCH 
Centre and Morewood Avenues 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bible Classes at 9:30 A. M.
Morning Worship, 10:45; Evening. 
7:45. Helpful sermons on Bible 
themes only.
A hearty welcome to students. 
HENRY P. ECKHARDT, Pastor,
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS, 
Assistant.
Sunday Service, 11:00 A. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 3:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages*. 
A cordial welcome to all
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
First 
Congregational 
Church
All seats free.
Make yourself at home all the 
time. Students especially wel
comed at each service.
CHAS. ELDRED SHELTON, 
LL.D., Pastor
DITHRIDGE ST., near Forbes.
Near Carnegie Institute.
sent out now to the entering class so . 
that all entering students may under
stand the nature and conditions of the 
language electives and will be ready 
to indicate their choice of language 
course on the opening day, September 
20.
In accordance with a recent faculty 
action, certain language electives will 
be open to Sophomores of the School 
of Applied Science in 1917-18. The^ 
various electives are given below:
I.Those who have had the Begin
ning German course (German I and
II, German B) during the Plebe year, 
may elect, for the Sophomore year, 
either
1. German III (reading of elemen
tary scientific German) or
2. English III (study of types of 
literature; expression).
Note:Sophomores in Chemical En
gineering and in General Science are 
urged to continue German.
II.Those who have had the Ad
vanced German course (German V and 
VI, German A, scientific reader) in 
the Plebe year, will take Sophomore, 
language courses as follows:
(a) Students in Commercial En
gineering will elect either
1. German VII (advanced scientific 
reading; journal articles) or
2. English III (study of types of lit
erature; expression).
Note:Spanish is not open to Soph
omore Commercials, since it is regu- 
larly scheduled in the Senior year of * 
the course.
(b) Students in Electrical Engi
neering will take Spanish I.
(c) Students in Chemical Engi-- 
neering and in General Science are 
urged to continue German, but may 
elect, instead, either Spanish or Engglish. The electives open are:
1. German VII (advanced scientific 
reading; journal articles) or
2. English III (study of types of lit
erature; expression), or
3. Spanish I (beginning Spanish).
(d) Students in Metallurgical, Min
ing, Civil, Sanitary and Mechanical 
Engineering, may elect either
1. German VII (advanced scientific 
readingjournal articles), or
2. Spanish I (beginning Spanish), or -
3. English III (study of types of lit- 
erature; expression).

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 18, 1917THE TARTANPage Three
BOOSTFSAALOE
^ for 35^ 
3 for $0*
CLUETT-PEABODY&CO-INC^iAKERS
^nnaiiiniiinnniiinniiiiiiiiiiiinnnwniniiiiminiiMnuiinitniiiiiiniiinHKKniiiniimi^
Mellon 
National | 
Bank
PITTSBUBGH 
510-514 Smithfield St.
I 409-413 Fifth Ave.
I 406-410 Oliver Ave.
I Capital-------$6,000,000
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
 Pierpont, Siviter & Co., |
1 ENGRAVING PRINTING J
EMBOSSING |
j Engraved Calling Cards
Wedding Invitations g
 Announcements
g Dance Programs g
Phone 358 Hiland.
119 SHADY AVENUE 1
STUDNT LUNCHEON 
Milk or Coffee, 5c Pie, 5c per cut 
Hot Chocolate, 10c 
Ham or Cheese Sandwich, 5c
Rolls and Butter, 5c 
ice Cream, 10c
TH HALLER BAKERY 
3610 FRBES STREET 
Iroquois Block.
OAKLAND 1 
HARDWARE CO.
HARDWARE AND 
HOUSE-FURNISHING GOODS 
3606 FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
[gJ3i3MSM3J3M2Mc!MSMSMSi3MclMlD!/SJ
C. cTW. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
STATIONER AND 
NEWSDEALER 
Phone 9076 Schenley. [
MSM3M3JSiSM3MSM3/2i
fSMSJSMSiSMSJSMSMSMSMSMSMJSJlEJc'J
I W. O. Breckon I
STUDIOS I 
------- I
FORBES AND ATWOOD STS. [| 
Phones 1603161 Schenley ij 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH [I 
STUDENTS I
[3f3M3IcliSMS3i2MSM3i5lSMMfSJS3SM3J3J
| WEBER EXPRESS AND
^ STORAGE COMPANY 
ij Bell Phone 239 Schenley.
Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen
eral Hauling Baggage to and 
from Depots.
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
GET YOUR HAIR CUT 
--------at the--------
TECH BARBER SHOP
Nearest to Tech 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
f RED FARGEL, Proprietor ^
*T '''73/3M3JSJ3J5MSOM3J2M3/3M3M33J
Pi3M3JSi3i3M3M3M3MSJ3MSMSMSM3MSJ 
FOUR CHAIRS NO WAITING 
HAIR CUTTING A SPECIALTY
J. M. F. Moeller
SHAVING PARLOR 
3721 FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Oakland.
i!M3MSMSMSMSMSMSJ3MSM20
Bell Phone 3465 Grant.
J. G. Marshall 
Company
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 1
Ej PITTSBURGH, PA. h
M0REW00D AVENUE CUT NEARING COMPLETION
The new roadway from the corner 
of Forbes and Morewood to the turn 
in Woodlawn avenue is nearing com
pletion. Of course it will probably be 
quite a while yet before the street is 
ready for use, but the cutting of the 
hill by which the dirt bridge is being 
made is almost finished. There has 
had to be an immense amount, of fill
ing done, the extent of which is not 
appreciated until one looks at it from 
below, in the hollow behind the Sci
ence School.
The Institute bought the old McGinley property last spring. Because 
of the high cost of labor and materials 
it was decided to abandon the plan of 
building a combination bridge and 
gymnasium across the hollow, with a 
stadium between it and the Margaret 
Morrison School. Instead, the entire 
hollow is to be filled up to a certain 
extent, and the portion where the 
bridge was to have been will be raised 
to the level of the two streets which 
it connects, thus forming a dirt bridge. 
In doing the work, all the houses 
along that part of Forbes street have 
been transformed. One has been 
made into a girls dormitory, the old 
McGinley homestead has been com
pletely torn down, and one building 
has been moved from its old position 
to a new place on the part of the hill 
that has been left. The moving was 
accomplished by building a sort of 
causeway out of heavy falsework and 
drawing the house up the way.
PAMPHLET ISSUED IN SEARCH FOR NEW MEN
Work of Industries School 
Well IllustratedBooklet 
Quotes Carnegie
The School of Applied Industries, 
under date of May, 1917, has issued 
a bulletin on Executive Training for 
the Industries. The publication is 
intended for distribution among the 
many varied industrial corporations of 
this district, and aims to attract a new 
type of student, or rather to increase 
the number of a type which has al
ready found its way into the school. 
In other words, the school is seeking 
as students men' who are already well 
advanced in practical work, and who. 
need only to secure certain training 
which the Industries School offers in 
order to secure the advancement 
which their superiors desire to give 
them. The distribution ot the pam
phlets is in charge of Mr. Hartman, 
who has even gone t the extent of 
doing personal work among the cor
porations of the city with this end in 
view.
The pamphlet itself is of large size, 
about nine by twelve, and contains 25 
pages printed on heavy white paper. 
It was compiled, designed, ail'd 'printed 
by the department of Prisiting. The 
subject matter is practically a resume 
of the work in the varieus courses of 
the school, without going into detail 
as to the subjects studied. The chap
ters deal with the following: For'the 
Machinery Trades, For the Building 
Trades, For Utility in Modern Build
ings, For the Graphic Arts and Train
ing Teachers* Undoubtedly the many 
illustrating photographs are the most 
interesting part of the book; from 
them even an upper classman may 
easily find out something about the 
Industries Schol which he never knew 
before.
The spirit in which the publication 
is issued, or in fact the spirit of the 
whole Industries School is well pointed 
out by the quotation printed on the 
back of the pamphlet. Andrew Car
negie in the New York Tribune of 
April 13, 1890:
Technically educated young men 
have one important advantage over 
the apprenticed mechanicthey are 
open-minded and without prejudice. 
The scientific attitude of mind, that 
of the searcher after truth, renders 
them receptive of new ideas. Great 
and invaluable as the working mechan
ic has been, and is, and will always be, 
yet he is disposed to adopt a .narrow 
view of affairs for he is generally well 
up in years before he comes into 
power. It is different with the scien
tifically trained boy; he has no preju
dices," and . goes in for the latest in
vention or newest method, no matter 
if another person has discovered it. 
He adopts the plan that will beat the 
record and discards his own devices 
or ideas, which the working mechanic 
sperintendent can rarely be induced 
to do. Let no one, therefore, under
rate the advantage of education; only 
it must be an education adapted to 
the end in view, and must give instruc
tion bearing upon a mans career if he 
is to make his way to fortune.
DRAMA STUDENTS IN
TECH WAR PAGEANT
(Continued From Page One.) 
the many opportunities offered. There 
were to lie two performances, July 5 
and 9. The first night and day after 
arriving, of course, were spent in re
hearsal, but being perfectly normal 
young people, most of the members of 
the company found time for a swim,
a. boat ride or an occasional lecture. 
But all felt their work repaid on 
Thursday evening, July 5, when the 
first performance was given in the 
vast Chautauqua Auditorium before 
sixteen hundred people.
Everyone realizes that a Chautau
qua audience is above the average, but 
surely they must have been something 
exceptional both in lines and in their 
interpretation of a production that 
held this assembly of hundreds of peo
ple absolutely attentive to the tenth 
degree, for fifty minutesthen, at the 
climax caused the whole body to rise, 
cheer, whistle and yell in their enthu
siasm. Vivid red, white and blue 
posters had heralded the coming of 
the pageant; young enthusiastic 
newsies had continued to herald the 
coming each morning through Chau
tauquas quiet street. But that final 
burst of appreciation from the throats 
of that audience was assurance that 
the realization had far surpassed the 
expectations.
The rest of the week was a deilghtful vacationinteresting lectures, fine 
swimming and interesting people. On 
Monday, July 9, the second successful 
performance was given, Tuesday 
morning found the members of the 
company departing for Pittsburgh, a 
little weary, but Chautauquans for
ever.
On separation no one knew definite
ly just what the future held for the 
pageant. The director, Mr. Stevens, 
had been unceasingly enga.ged in inter
views with delegates from various 
parts of the country, while at Chautau
qua, so the prospects were very good. 
Again vague hints became facts and 
on July 21, the company left Pitts
burgh, this time for Wheeling. This 
trip was to be a tour of the four 
largest cities of West Virginia, and 
was taken under the auspices of the 
State Council of Defense. It was not 
a vacation. Traveling through West 
Virginia from place to place, in hot 
weather, was vastly different from the 
fine week of vacation at Chautauqua. 
But the trip was an experience that 
not one member of the company would 
have missed. For a summer school it 
was about the most comprehensive 
course any student of dramatic art 
could have taken. And each.time one 
became discouraged over the heat, 
lack of traveling facilities, etc., he 
would find it all erased by the remark
able appreciation of the hundreds who 
saw the pageant. There were three 
performances in Wheeling, July 23, 
24 and 25, and each night the audience 
doubled. The place of production was 
ideal  a natural amphitheater in 
Wheeling Park.
Following Wheeling, cnme two pro
ductions at Huntington, July 27 and 
28. The intense heat somewhat af
fected the audience, but nevertheless 
they were quite appreciative. From 
Huntington the company went to 
Charleston, arriving there Sunday, 
July 29. Here the girls were taken 
into the homes of prominent citizens, 
and from the first day of the stay 
there both boys and girls were made 
to feel more like guests than like tired 
patriots doing their bit. The per
formances in Charleston came Mon
day and Tuesday evenings, July 30 
and 31. The newspapers had been 
exceptional in their publicity, so again 
there was an expectation to be satis
fied. But once more the reception 
from an audience of twelve hundred 
people crowded into a hot armory on 
one of the hottest nights this sum
mer, displayed the fact that they were 
satisfied and deeply impressed. All 
that were there the first night came 
back the second night and many more.
The last city visited was Parkers
burg. Here the park, again, was the
place of production. There were two 
performances, August 2 and 3. Crit
icisms of each performance had
been forthcoming from our direc
tor, Mr. Stevens, and at each re
hearsal the rough places had been 
made smooth. So at Parkersburg the 
production was in quite a finished 
statea, fact which was manifestly 
shown by the appreciation . of six
thousand people each night, the larg
est and most cosmopolitan audience  
which it had been presented. On 
Saturday, August 4, The Drawing N1 
the Sword Company traveled u. 
Pittsburgh, and all were glad to be 
in the city again. As yet no other 
trips have definitely materialized, but 
even if things remain as they are, 
surely no student of C. I. T. can help 
being proud of this achievement of Mr. 
Stevens and the various ones who 
helpedand it will be long remem
bered in the history of Tech.
The cast is as follows:
Characters
The Herald......................Carl B. Reid
Truth...............................Lucy Barton
Liberty...............................Inez Krebs
Justice  .................. James S. Church
Servia..................C. Frederick Steen
Belgium ......................Ena M. Lewis
England............ John W. Burke
France.............................Eula N. Guy
Imperial Russia .. Theodore Viehman
Canada ....................William Mulligan
India..................Alexander Buchman
Australia ......................... Carl B. Reid
Japan..................Frederic McConnell
Armenia.............Dorothy Rubenstein
Italy...........................Norwood Engle
Poland...............................Mary Ricards
Portugal ................ William Mulligan
Roumania...........Alexander Buchanan
The New Russia.............. Ellen Crowe
America.................Violante Bollinger
Production made under the direction 
of B. Iden Payne. Costuming under 
the direction of Katherine Jones. Mu
sic under the direction of William F. 
Viehman, Jr., and Harry Froelich. 
Stage Manager, George G. Walker.
Synopsis
The Herald announces tho theme of 
ttfe. Pageant and calls upon the audi
ence to follow him to the high court, 
where the Allied Nations plead their 
causethe Court of Truth, Liberty 
and Justice. These three spirjts enter 
and take their thrones.
To the court comes Servia, stating 
the demands made upon, him by Aus
tria. Liberty and Justice bid him 
draw the sword. Truth warns him 
that the act will set the world) aflame. 
But Servia may not choose. He draws 
the sword.
Belgium enters with her orphaned 
children, her stricken people. She 
pleads her cause, and to her defense 
come England and France, and after 
them, Russia, the fires of revolution 
already smoldering among his people. 
England calls to his far colonies, and 
Japan brings his pledge of the defense 
of the Pacific.
And now, as from a great distance, 
comes the cry of Armenia. Italy, cast
ing off the bonds of the Triple Alli
ance, joins the Allies, as do Portugal 
and Roumania. To the assembled na
tions Poland, the thrice divided, makes 
her appeal.
Now Truth warns the nation of the 
strength of the foe, and the nations in 
antiphonal lament their losses. Lib
erty and Justice call to America. And 
now a new tumult arises in the Rus
sian group, the haughty leader is de
throned, and the New Russia gropes 
her way toward the fires of freedom 
and war. Her bewilderment falls up
on the nations as a pall, and they 
cfroan beneath it. But now, a new 
trumpet is heard, and America enters, 
saluting her allies, and pledging her 
sword to their common cause.
MILITARY DRILL TO
BE CONTINUED; MAY 
NECESSITATE SATURDAY SCHOOL
(Continued From Page One.) 
from 8:30 to 9:30, with school sessions 
running from 9:30 to 5:30. In the Sci
ence School this plan has received ad
ditional approval of the faculty, but 
they have found it necessary in some 
cases to schedule classes Saturday 
morning. This Saturday work will be 
chiefly drawing classes and laboratory 
work.
There is no official information in 
regard to the matter of uniforms, but 
in the absence of authoritative word 
it is believed that the statement con
cerning them published in the news
papers this summer is correct; that is, 
no uniforms at all resembling those of 
the U. S. Army will be permitted.
FOOTBALL PRESENTS DIFFI
CULTIES THROUGH LOSS
OF MEN AND GAMES
(Continued From Page One.) 
Carnegie when only two men are re
turning, and new men can not be 
reached until after they register. Con
sequently the coach will arrive in the 
city some time after Wednesday of 
this week, and practice will begin im
mediately on his arrival.
The schedule has also suffered some
what on account of the war, the first 
two. games having been cancelled. 
Yale was scheduled for the opening 
game at New Haven, September 29, 
but they have abandonod varsity 
football entirely. The same is true 
of Grove City, for they have cancelled 
their whole schedule, including what 
was to have been Techs first homo 
game, on October (5. Manager Gear
hart is now trying to arrange a game 
for that date with one of the Ohio 
colleges. He has sent ton or more 
telegrams in that effort, but as yet only 
a few replies have been received, all 
unfavorable. Definite results should 
be obtained in a day or t^vo. If the 
attempt to fill that date is unsuccess
ful, they schedule will be as follows: 
Oct. 6Open.
Oct. 13Westminster Col., at home. 
Oct. 20Ohio University, at home. 
Oct. 27Allegheny College, at home. 
Nov. 3Cornell University, at Ithaca. 
Nov. 10Ofcen.
Nov. 17University of Pittsburgh, at
Forbes Field.
Athletics will probably be continued 
throughout the year at Tech. An at
tempt will be made to put through a 
successful schedule in every sport, just 
as the attempt is being made to put 
through a hard schelude in football, 
ncluding the Cornell and Pitt games. 
Tech, as an engineering school, al
ways has been hampered because the 
men have more rigid scholastic re
quirements and less time to practice. 
Now. in addition, Tech finds that only 
two men from last years squad are 
returning, while schools like Pitt have 
a dozen or more. For other examples, 
W. J. had practically) the whole team 
back, and West Virginia has a good 
nucleus to begin with. In spite of the 
obvious disadvantage Tech would 
rather go through with her schedule 
than drop it entirely, as Yale, Har
vard and Princeton have done. An 
attempt will be made to get out a 
larger squad than usual; in fact an 
attempt will be made to get every man 
in school out for some sport.
Schenley Theatre
FORBES STREET AND BIGELOW BOULEVARD 
Schenley 1478 p. & A. park 110
OPENING OF SEASON MONDAY SEPT. 24TH
ABOBN COMIC OPERA COMPANY
Presenting the latest Comic Operas and Musical 
Comedies
CHORUS OF 40 ORCHESTRA OF 20
A New production each week.
WEEK BEGINNING MONDAY 
SEPTEMBER 24
THE FIREFLY
By Rudolf Friml and Otto 
Hauerbach.
WEEK BEGINNING MONDAY 
OCTOBER 15
THE PRINCE OF 
PILSEN
By Gustav Luders and Frank 
Pixley.
WEEK BEGINNING MONDAY 
OCTOBER 1
THE SPRING 
MAID
By Heinrich Reinhardt and Har
ry B. and Robert B. Smith.
WEEK BEGINNING MONDAY 
OCTOBER 22-
ROBIN HOOD
By Reginald De Koven and Har
ry B. Smith.
WEEK BEGINNING MONDAY 
OCTOBER 8
THE CHOCOLATE 
SOLDIER
By Oscar Straus, Bernaver and 
Jacobson.
IN PREPARATION
THE RED MILL
THE GIRL OF MY DREAMS 
"THE RED WIDOW 
"THE BLUE PARADISE 
ALONE AT LAST," ETC.
PRICES POPULAR
Nights, Saturday and Holiday Matinees 
Orchestra 75c and 50c Balcony 25c and 50c Box Seats $1.00
NONE HIGHER 
Bargain Thursday Matinees 
Entire Orchestra 50c Balcony 25c and 50c
ALL ROADS LEAD TO THE SCHENLEY THEATER 
Subscribers may have same seats reserved for dach week.
lM/a^Oi3J2SJ3/Snni0fil/niiI/3f3Jc/i?DlJULD
TECH CLUB BACKS
DEAN CONNELLEY AS CAN
DIDATE FOR CITY COUNCIL
(Continued From Page One.) 
served as Dean of the School 6f Ap
plied Industries, a position he will 
continue to occupy in case he is elect
ed to council. The College CJub is 
planning a luncheon for early in the 
present week.
Dean Connelleys statement to the 
people of Pittsburgh In announcing his 
candidacy on August 18, 1917, was as 
follows:
In response to the requests of many 
friends in all parts of Pittsburgh, I 
have decided to become a candidate 
for council subject to the primaries 
September 19. It is not my intention 
In making this statement to outline a 
fixed series of pledges and promises 
to which I will bind myself, but to give 
assurance that I am ready and willing 
to devote my best energies and the 
varied experiences of public and pri
vate life to the City in which I have
been a life-long resident.
Never was the elimination of waste 
in municipal management so urgent 
as now when taxpayers, poor, as well 
as rich, are being called upon to make 
unusual sacrifices to insure victory for 
the Uni tod States in the world war. 
This is no time to tolerate municipal 
legislation and exponditure simply to 
advance personal political ambitions. 
Our taxpayers* now have as groat bur
dens as they can afford to bear. We 
should do everything in our power to 
keep our municipal expenses down. 
Wo should conserve our rosourcos and 
do our utmost to inspire the confidence 
of businoss interests and to oncourago 
them ta^make larger investments, ex
pand their Industries, omploy moro of 
our citizens and add to the incroasing 
prosperity of our community. 1 be
lieve that had propor diligence been 
shown by our municipal authorities In 
fostering instead of discouraging old 
and prospective ihdus'trlos, Pittsburgh 
would today have manufacturing 
plants that have moved elsewhere and 
that failed to come because no muni
cipal encouragement was given them.
Our yennu; ron aro going to the 
front to fight the battles for world 
frcoaom and our mothers and sisters 
and (laughters are making every sacrij (Ice to help. Wo who remain at homo 
must also do our part. It is our duty 
: to see that Pittsburghs affairs
I aro conductod as those of any con
servative, well regulated business or| ganization should be conducted. We 
must combat soaring costs of neces
sities with every ounce of strength. 
We must face the days to come with 
new courage and higher patriotism. 
We must do what we can to make 
Pittsburgh a better, more prosperous, 
more comfortable city in which to live.
"Aside from the special demand of 
war times, it is becoming more ana 
more evident that the city must co
operate in the largest possible way 
with the educational institutions and 
the recreation centers, etc., that the 
youth of the city, as well as the cit
izens and the strangers who come to 
us, may derive the best possible ad
vantages. As a city, we are fortunate 
indeed in our schools, especially in the 
institutions of higher learning. It is 
well to remember that these attract 
hundreds of out-of-town students 
every year, many of whom upon grad
uation remain in the city and become 
a part of its industries and life.
Pittsburgh has been held up as a 
city where living is expensive, where 
even for the common necessities of 
life, we must pay the highest prices. 
Experience has taught us that the high 
cost of living is not so much a matter 
of shortage of supplies, as of inade
quate facilrties for bringing the sup
plies to the consumer. The trans
portation problem is still one of the 
pressing ones of the city awaiting 
solution.
I believe that the people of Pitts
burgh require as they have never re
quired before, a conservative and eco
nomical management of their munici
pal affairs, with an eye single to re
ducing taxes, koping present Indus
tries here and making an organizod 
effort to Induce others to come to add 
to our prosperity.
I have no political axe to grind and 
If I am elected to Pittsburgh Council 
I will do my best to bring about the 
conditions such as I have outlined.
CNANRE
The Personal Writing Machlnc 
So simple in construction 
and operation that any
one can use it without 
previous experience. : -
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
Price $50
I
Call 343 Court or Writer
i Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION.1 
OPEN EVENINGS
imiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim
WENBGER
|j JEWELERS AND OPTICIANS 
Repairing of all kinds prompt
ly attended to. Eyes tested, 
glasses fitted. We guarantee atV 
our work.
Bell Phone 1114-J Hiland.
No. 105 SHADY AVENUE 
EAST LIBERTY Pittsburgh, Pa.
He that is extravagant will quickly 
become poor; and poverty will enforce 
dependence and invite corruption. 
Dr. Johnson.
Our convenient location in Oakland 
enables us to give you excellent serv
ice. Cleaning and pressing done oin 
short notice. Special service to fra
ternities and rooming houses. Let us. 
have a trial order. Call Schenley 875. 
J. E. T. SHUMAN 
3911 Forbes Street
* OLD TARTANS WANTED *
I* In order to complete the files
4* of Tartans for binding, the boiird 
fr desires to secure the following
* issues and will pay ton cents for 
b each:
b Year 1907-8, one copy each of No.
* 10, 11, 16, 17, 19. *
* 1908*9, one copy each, of Nos. 3, S*
* 15, 23. *
b 1909-10, one copy each of Nos. HE*
* 10, 18, 19. *
b, 1910-11, one copy of No. 17. 4
-b 1911-12, one copy cacli of Nos. 3,
b 0, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, <
* 22, 24, 28, 29, 32. <
b 1915-16, five copies each of Nos. 
b 1, 34, two copies of No. . 
b 1916-17, five copies of No. IV '
****?****

---------------------------------------------------

Page FourTHE TARTANTuesday, September 18, 1917
tt
1
XX
improve The Man With 
Character Clothes
It is one of the most difficult artB in the world to dress a man per
fectly, yet no two men are near enough alike to be equally well fitted, 
consequently a ready made garment cut for unknown or unseen figures 
is, according to the law of good taste, an impossibility, and never did, 
nor ever will grace the person of a gentleman of acquired taste.
If you would be in a class with the discriminating, who really 
care about their dress, then let the G. & R. label identify you.
We are now showing the largest line of latest reliable woolens for 
suits and topcoats obtainable.
Prepare for cooler weather with garments that are comfortable 
and look proper on you.
CUSTOM MADE CLOTHES TO MEASURE FROM
$20.00 to $40.00
FIFTH ENGINEERS SEEING SERVICE;TECH MEN WRITE NEWS FROM FRANCE
X' 8 Stores In 8 Cities.639 SMITHFIELD STREET 
J. GUTTRIDGE, Manager.
nOM5MilM3MSM3JSM3i3clMcMi!MS3MSMSM3MSMSIc3J3MSJ3MSMM3J3J3M3J3M2M3M.
fj? lansant
Each Monday, Wednesday and Saturday Evening 
From 9 to 12.30
Duquesne Garden Ballroom
The Ballroom Beautiful
Under the Direction of
Mr. William E. McCoy and 
Miss Helen Withum
r| Pittsburghs Society Ballroom Dancers
|] Formerly of the William Penn and Fort Pitt Hotels 
Refreshments and Supper served all evening.
1 New Yorks Latest Jazz Music
1 . . . ---------By---------
RIEHLS JAZZ ORCHESTRA 
J. Oliver Rielil at the Piano ffl
POR PRINTING
-----------REQUIRING------------ jfj
AMPLE FACILITIESGESTU UFHUSYURCU ,P
ASSURED SATISFACTION
Murdock, Kerr & Co., Inc.
n.,in.,f(niT,f)^/^f^fi,iii'ifrUr'Ui,|ii,|ji'|i'|ii|i'|iiii(|ii',ii,,jii/,ii',i'|ii|ii'|i[,|('|ii,iii'|ii'iJ('iJ['|ji'|i!iii'|jii,j!'.|j('jji'iJi',iiiiii'i/ii/i'.i/r,jpi/ri/i'i/['|i['1/
|i! A. ASLISTailor I} Maker of fine olothea.Cl
120 MEYRAN AVENUE
MODERATI!] PRICES
caning and pressing. >|j
ffl4692-R Schenley tjjj 1OAKLAND
|lgg||gltpln^^
| DO YOU DANCE?
;ej B897D9a rtuuN9u 7r8uu 89B gADe8.t Y
:|| . JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
ijg CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE |
ijj|^[ir7airnrirara!iarofirarararanaTOiiTOrirarH]fiafgfi3iflffliiaMgfflig^^
BATTERY
tlc
All Kinds of BATTERIES g 
Repaired and Recharged |
ESERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
436 Seventh Ave.
INN ON WOODLAWN AVE. RECHRISTENED SK1B0
Sklboo Inn? You dont know Slcibo 
Inn? Shame, try againJigger Shop? 
Ah, now you know! Yea, one and the 
same, but not quite the same, because 
tit is In this wise:
Messrs. "Doug Armstrong and 
Killy Kllburn built the little shop 
on Wood lawn avenue and atoclcod It. 
with smokos, candles and divers othor 
delect ablos. It proved to bo a very 
successful financial venture Cor those 
two gentlemen, but at the same time 
something of a white elephant;, as 
neither "Doug nor Killy could 
spare the tlma necesary to successful
ly conduct the growing business, so, 
in the course of events the shop came 
into the possession of Miss Marguerite 
Bollenger, of the Drama Department, 
and became also "Slcibo Inn.
Under her efficient management the 
classic "liot-egg and liot-dog be
come real, eatable meals, the stock envrged, and the plan and scope 
'lened.
le coming school year will find 
ip Inn extending a welcome that 
fail to touch heart, appetite
and purse! Afternoon tea, served as 
that important event should be ob
served, hot; tasty dinners and break
fasts to start the day right, with all 
the trimmingsyou know.!
Yes, this is merely an attempt to 
express a certain appreciation of the 
enterprise that has placed in an ad
vantageous place a little spot where 
the seml-occasional bite or smoke 
may be had in pleasant surroundings, 
convenient to schools and dormitories, 
and managed and manned by Techlt.es.
People seldom Improve when they 
have no model but thomselvos to copy 
after. Goldsmith.
Lieutenant Dufts Letter Tells 
Officers Side of Life. 
Brunny Enthusiastic
REGIMENT IS PRAISED
Fanatlslsm grows inveterate by 
time, enthusiasm Is. cooled by It.
c "SCHENLEY EATS
A good place to get a good meal.
Meet your friends here on 
Sunday evening.
FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor.
CRAIG AND FORBES
The one military organization in 
which Carnegie Tech is especially and 
distinctly represented is the Fifth 
Regiment, United States Engineers, 
under Colonel Edgar Jadwin. In that 
organization are members of the fac
ulty, alumni, and student body, each 
of whom, of course, has his propor
tionate share in the success of the 
regiment which is giving a good ac
count of itself in France, according 
to all published reports and several 
letters received from the men.
Of the letters, the following from 
Lieutenant Edward E. Duff, Jr., Sci
ence Alumnus, is characteristic. In 
his letter, Lieutenant Duff writes that 
the regiment left England just as se-. 
cretly and abruptly as it left the camp 
at Oakmont. The passage across the 
channel was without mishap. Lieu
tenant Duffs company was the first to 
leave the boat. Their appearance in 
France was unheralded and every
where they were looked upon as curi
osities. All the people came out and 
extended them salutations and wher
ever they passed the familiar greeting 
to American of "Viva L'Amerique 
was on all lips.
Where the Pittsburgh troops. are 
quartered, the letter says, the vil
lagers give the men every courtesy. 
The French are hospitable and would 
walk a mile to do the men a favor. 
When they are offered a tip, they 
flatly refuse with a wave of the hand 
and a merci beaucoup in real French 
style.
Lieutenant Duff relates being enter
tained by French officers at a banquet 
at which each American officer had a 
French officer at his side. The con
versation was carried on, he says, by 
the use of conversation books.
The troops are well fed, according 
to the letter. The nearer the front, lie 
says, the better the meals become. 
The civil population is denying itself 
everything that the soldiers can be 
well taken care of. The food is plain, 
but substantial. The Pittsburgh 
troops have not tasted white bread 
since they left England.
Company D was the first company 
to be assigned to active service, and 
then Company E followed. These, are 
doing railroad work hear the French 
front. Nothing specific as to the char
acter of the work other than It is rail
road work is given.
Probably the following extracts from 
letters written by Private Alexander 
Brunwasser will be of even greater 
interest to the. present student body, 
who remember Brunny as one of the 
live wires of last years football squad. 
Me says in part:
"As yet, I havent even heard from 
home or from anyone else in Pitts
burgh.
"France Is one beautiful country. 
Everything here is ar strange to me. 
The language, the dress, and the cus
toms differ greatly from our own. The" 
town near here lias about 30,000 people. 
They are very nice to us, and try their 
hardest to. make themselves under
stood.
"The language Is the only thing that 
gets me, but FU get on to It soon. At 
least I can make myself understood. 
The styles here seem to be more upto-date than at home, yet in some 
places far below. I have certainly 
been surprised at some things that I 
have seen here, things that 1 never 
even realized. Everybody sells wine 
and liquors. I imagine that the 
license laws are not strict: Food and 
clothing are very cheap; I had a meal 
that was big enough for three and it 
only cost me one franc.
I made friends with a couple of 
French students., They are studying 
engineering at the Technical School, 
and their work is along the same line 
as mine.
England is also some place; her 
country cant be described. We were 
there for a while, and I did enjoy my
self. If you were asleep when you; ar
rived there and then awakened when 
you were out in the country, you would 
think that you were looking at a toy 
picture book. Fairyland, I think, is the 
proper word to describe it. An even
ness and oneness about everything 
adds to the beauty. The atmosphere 
of the place is so different; you just 
get the feeling that you are in a new 
land. The people are very patriotic, 
and our appearance added to their con
fidence In winning this war.
Aside from these personal letters, 
and no doubt many others, we hear 
of the Fifth Englnoers through the 
press reports, which includes praise 
of the riglment which the men them
selves might not write. Of these re
ports the following interview with 
Henry Hauff, of New York, is typical:
"1 visited the camp In England and 
was delighted with the appearance of 
the men. Every one of them looked 
the picture of health. English officers 
were surprised when they learned-that 
the enlisted men were all rookies and 
had less than six weeks drill when 
they were ordered to the front. I, too, 
was surprised, for I had thought tjie 
regiment had beeli in existence for 
some time, for the men went tlirogh 
their drills with the snap that is char
acteristic of an experienced company.
From what I saw of the regiment I. 
am sure it will give a good account of 
itself. Pittsburgh should be proud of 
that regiment."
LAST YEARS HANDBOOKS
GIVEN TO NEWCOMERS
(Continued From Page One.) 
introduced. The Tartan has gone 
through the handbook and notes the 
following as the chief corrections:
Page 5. For the calendar of the 
coming year, students should see the 
catalogue.
Page 8. In the Science School, Dr. 
Leete has resigned to accept the posi
tion of Director of the Carnegie Li
braries of Pittsburgh, and Dean Mott 
is now head of the school.
Page 14.PLEBE REGULATIONS 
ARE STILL IN FORCE.
Page 26. Owing to unsettled condi
tions some of the student organiza
tions may not be active this year. 
Also the officers of the student or
ganizations are naturally not those 
given for last year, but in most cases 
it is impossible to give even the new 
ones elected for this year since so 
many upper classmen are not in 
school.
Page 28. Industries Senate is as de
scribed. Design Senate was reorgan
ized last year with a revised constitu
tion. Science School organized a Sen
ate for the whole school, correspond
ing to those in the other two mens 
schools. M. M. C. S. has a Senate, as 
Is described on Page 68.
Also, the whole Institute is now gov
erned by a Central Council, to which 
members are elected by the student 
bodies of each of the four schools. 
The Council supplied a long-felt-want 
at Tech, for it is really the only or
ganization which can take action for 
the school as a whole. The president 
of the Council is elected in the spring 
of one year to serve through the next 
year; George Todd, Science Senior. 
Mechanical, is president for this year.
Page 39. Bagpipe was discontinued 
last year.
Page 44. Choral Club will probably 
not be resumed this year.
Page 54. Several of the clubs and 
fraternities have changed their ad
dresses, and oneXi Sigma Upsilon 
is no longer maintaining a house.
Page 55. Sororities have been aban
doned in M. M. C. S. for a period of 
five years.
H. J. McCORKLE NOW IN
SSCOND OFFICERS' CAMP
(Continued From Page One.)
Along with Mr. M.cCorkle went a 
number of other Tech men, including 
David R. Ingalls, A. W. Einstein, and
E. S. Lundell. Ingalls is a Science 
Graduate of 1916, and last year served 
as assistant in the Mechanical Labora
tory. Einstein graduated from Science 
last year, and Lundell would have .been 
a Senior this year. These men. all 
went to Fort Oglethorpe. W. Iv. WI1- 
llans, Science, '17, Is in the second 
Officers Training Camp at Fort Ben
jamin I-Iarrison.
MEMORIAL MONUMENT IS
PLANNED NEAR LIBRARY
(Continued From Page One.) 
erection of the Mary E. Schenley Me
morial Monument. The work of filling 
the hollow under the bridge was com
pleted last year, and the monument 
was begun. When it is finished, the 
whole front entrance is to be laid out 
in different style. The land will be 
re-sodded to remove the paths worn 
by pedestrians, and three flower beds 
placed in itone small oval one In 
the center, and a large one at each end 
of the field.
NEW COURSES PREPARE
GIRLS FOR MENS WORK
(Continued From Page One.) 
suffer while the men are at the front 
or in training. It is to be expected 
that a city of Pittsburghs rank in the 
industrial field would be one of the 
first to offer to American women op
portunities similar to those of their 
French and Britisl\-sisters and to this 
end the Institute has decided to open 
several short courses to train women 
for positions in industries. Two lines 
of work into which women can fit to 
good advantage, providing interesting 
and remunerative occupation, have 
been found to be mechanical drafting 
and chemistry. The big industries in 
the Pittsburgh district employ a large 
number of tracers in their, drafting 
rooms, and also assistants to do analy
sis work in their chemical laboratories 
and it is to prepare women at once 
for these positions that the Institute 
will offer special intensive courses, for 
which applications are now being re
ceived.
The Collegiate Vocational Bureau, 
operated under the auspices of the 
College Club of Pittsburgh, has done 
credible work in placing women in 
men's positions. The work of the 
bureau, which entered upon its third 
year in July, compares favorably with 
that of the vocational bureau in Chi
cago. Several hundred women have 
registered each month since January 
and Miss Esther M. Smith, the direc
tor, has placed draughtswomen, me
chanical drawers, city workers, tea 
room managers, gardeners, traveling 
representatives, employment mana
gers, officers, managers and high grade 
secretaries.
P.LUDEBUEHL& SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY PENN AND FRANKSTOWN 
Footprints Lead to Detection T
The standing of a man is as often 
as not told by his footwearif he is 
careless of that, hes apt to be negli
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are "all right. Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Mens Dept.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
THE OAKLAND BANK"
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
ALL WORK GUARANTEED PROMPT SERVICE
JAMES PARISI
MODERN. ELECTRIC SHOE REPAIRING 
217/z ATWOOD STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
BEST LEATHER USED 
OM2M2M2M0M3M3M3M3M2M3M3M3J3M3MSM3MSMSM3M2M3J2MSM3M3MSMS
THE NEW FRAMELESS INDICATOR
K. & E. Adjustable Slide Rules, Manheim Polyphase Duplex, Polophase Duplex, Log-Log, etc., T Squares, Triangles, ScalesA complete 
line for the Artist, Draughtsmen and Student. Agents for Keuffel & 
Esser Company's Drawing Materials.
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ
535 Wood Street At Sixth Avenue
Order Your Personal Christmas Cards Now.
A National Institution
Browning, King & Company
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
HARRY T. BROWN 
OAKLAND AVENUE MARKET
Special Prices to Fraternities
H
lij Wholesale and Retail Fruits and Vegetables
iiiiiUMniuinniiiiuiimiiiiiiniiiiiiiNiiiiiiiiiDiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiniiiuiiigiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiHiiiiniiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiniiiniiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiniiiniiuiiDiiniiiiiiitEiiiHiuiiii
llllllllllIlillllUIIIIIIII!llllllllllll!!lllllllll![lll!|[|||||||||||l!IIIIIIII[|IIIIIII!l!lllllll|[||lllllllllllllllll!!IIIII!!llillllll!IlllllUI!l!llllII!U[IIIIIlll(IIIIIUI!lilllll!l!];
Skibo Inn
LUNCHESGROCERIESTOBACCO CANDY
Patronize Home Industry 
You cant miss us. Woodlawn Avenue.
lilllllllllllllllllllilH
Bell, 9169 and 578 Schenley----------PHONES--P. & A., 1092-R
W. J. MOORE, President
OAKLAND EXPRESS & TRANSFER CO.
(Incorporated)
MOVING AND STORAGE, TRUNK AND BAGGAGE DELIVERY 
229 ATWOOD STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
liirilllllllUllllllllUllllilllllllllUliUllllllllllUllllllllllllllIIIIIIUUIIIUIIIIIIIIllIlllllllllllllIIIIUIIllIIIIIUIIllIlllIlUIIIKllllllIIIIIUUUIIIIIllllUIIUlllllUllllllllllllllllllUlllllllllUlUimmilJIIlimillllllllllllllllim
McDOUGALLS DANCING CLASSES
SHADY AND PENNDANCES MONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY 
4616 FORBES STREETFRI DAY EVENINGS 
Private Lessons and Beginners Classes every day and evening. 
Jazz Fox Trot Ramble Waltz Mirimba Orchestra
SLIDE RULES
Before buying a slide rule see our New Improved Phillips lide 
Rule with glass frameless indicator and improved automatic adjust
ment.Eugene Dietzgen Company
MANUFACTURERS 
Drawing Instruments and Supplies
Engineering and Surveying Instruments 
SPECIAL PRICES TO STUDENTS 
805 LIBERTY AVENUE : : : : : PITTSBURGH, PA.
