E
Men must be atliherty to 
*say u print whatever tliey 
have in mind to eay, pro
vided it/wionge no one*
CHARLES A. DANA3TVC Carnejie 3Tartau
TO DAYS EPITORfALS {V
Adjusting to Lifo __
: y  Welcome Alumni 
: Av Stump to'Stand .Qn 1 
SenateSupervision 
= The .Ridiculous football 1 
Jfloliday______
VOL. 29, NO, 5 .CARNEGIE IiNSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA*TUESDAY, OCT. 23, 1934
Grads Meet at Brown 
House, Headquarters 
For Cla ss Reunions
Alumni Clans Unveil 
Portrait of Uncle 
John Brashear
Plate Presentation 
i Follows Parade
i Chib Smokers, Pep Rally, 
l Purdue Game Outstanding 
1 Items of Interest
1 The registration of alumni will 1 fcegin at eleven oclock Friday at \ tbe Brown House, the first 'house | on Forbes street above the Cut. I Tbe 6logan for the Homecoming Is * Meet Me at tbe Brown House.1 ? Registration tags and tickets for ! all homecoming events will be gnie there. Lists o all returning i alumni will be posted at the regie[ iration headquarters, and registraion will take place at all scheduled 
vents..
Homecoming
Program
street abaviTheCut).1:15 P. M.Alumni Luncheon Carnegie Inn  Woodlawn Avenue. Call of Clans.2:10 P. M.Alumni Parade Kiltie BandR. 0. T. C.Honorary Societies.2:30 P. M.1934 Class Plate Presentation, Administration Hall. Call of Reunlng Classes Recognition of 1934.
4:00 P. M.Dean Greens Tea for Alumnae  Womens Club Room, Gymnasium Building
6:00 P. M,Open HouseAll Fraternities. Special Reunion Program.. See your. Class Chairman*. .. .. .7:16 P. M,"Pep" : party and BonfireCarnegie Bowl.
10:16 P. M.Reception Exhibition Hall, College of Flno Arts.10:30 P. DancingSmokersAll Fraternities.SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27 * Morning  Golf$1.00 each. Make reservations when reglsterlng.2:00 P. M.C. I. T. vs. PurdueThe Stadium.7:00 P. M,  Dinner Dance  InformalHotel Schenley Ball
Dorm Dance 
Will Be Held 
Fri. Evening
Halloween Decorations 
Planned; Eddie Weitz 
Provides Music
\ The Alumni Luncheon, at Nock will be in the main dining . \ o the Carnegie Inn on Mfirgai 1 Morrison street (Woodlawn aveAue). Mr. Clarence Overend, alumni executive secretary, will make a short addreBS at tbls luncheon. .The twenty-eight Carnegie alumni organizations, known dans, scattered from coast *bav;
coast
been.Invited, to send at least representative to the Home*ing,'and a. Call oi Clans* will be made daring the luncheon.
Band Leads Parade 
Prom the luncheon, the alumni, escorted by a unit 6t the H. 0% T. C., the Kiltie Band, and, members of (Continued on Page Five.)
Welfare Group 
Asks Cooperation
Students Urged to Notify 
Y of Those in Need
Alumni Federation, dress homecoming graduates at Informal reception this Friday.
The annual Mens Fall Dorm 
Dance is scheduled for Friday, Oc
tober 26, from 9 to 1, in Thistle 
Hall.
Eddie Weitz and his Pennsyl
vanians, featuring Lhe Dorsey Sisters, has been engaged to furnish the music. This orchestra comes to tbe Carnegie campus after having filled successful engagements at the Chatterbox In the william Hotel; the. George 'Wshington Hotel; th Waldhmeer Park in Erie. They have also broadcasted ver station KDK.
-^ovl'decorations;'7ln~'keeping with . the halloween season and surprise favore have .been plannedby the committee.
Herbert M. Go9a 35 is chairman and the committee Includes Harold H. jasaques '36, Charles Vukovlcb FrederlckBeers '36 and Harold Corning 36.
In past years this dance has been very successful and enjoyable affair for all attending. Although it Is a dorm dance, the whole student body Is invited to attend. Dormitory men will be admitted but the fee for others will be $2.00 a couple.
Chaperones will include Dr. and rs. Watkins, Dean Green, Dean and Mrs. A. W. Tarfbell, Miss Elizabeth Heim, Mr. and Mrs. Pitkin, Professor and Mrs. Schonvlner, Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Work, Professor and Mrs. Saylor, and Captain andMrs. Whittaker,
FRESHMAN REPORTERS MEET
Drama Dept. 
Offers Play 
By Congreve
C. Dozer, P. Rowl.es 
Patti Littell Take 
Leading R0II9
Love For Love 
To Be Presented
B. Iden Payne Is Director; 
Cecil Kitcat In Charge 
Of Choreography
la
Departm this we>
Wednesday, October 24 i
with a colorful and interesting historical background. Love for Love was first produced at Lincoln's Inn Fields Theater in London in 1C95. Betterton, one of the best actors of his days,
this the only time that Betterton appeared in Congreves vehicle.
> 1776, at his request, the play i again produced, and this time before Betterton appeared In leading part. In 1925 there another revival of the play, thi6 time tbe play was directed and produced by the great director, Robert Edmund Jones. This production was graced with a cast which included Edgar SlehlJ, widely acclaimed by critics, and. Waller Abel.t Cast Chosen
The cast for this week's producBrisbane Will Speak 
At Chemists Banquet
Noted Journalist to Discuss Some Popular Aspects 
Of Chemical Engineering; Closes 27th Annual 
Institute of Chemical' Engineers Meeting
Arthur Brisbane, famous journal* eral will be Invited to these technton Turkle as Jeremy, Polly Rowles and Patti Littell as Angel*, lea, Dorothy Neumann and Sarabel
i and Sylvia LIpka as
Miss Cecil Kltkat is directing'the lusical numbers and the dancing.
Has Many Plots 
The bare structural fabric of tbe play Is intricately interwoven by tany interlacing plots. The main plot concerns itself with the efforts
which Sir Sampson, his father, wishes to take from him.
Many Sub-Plots
There are many sub-plotsone of which is woven about the match arranged between Benjamin, Other of Sir Sampsons sons, and his favorite, and Misa Prue. Before the conclusion of the play this match is broken up. At the final denouement we find Valentine ahd Angelica, and Mr. Tattle and Mrs; Frail among the married couples, or those to be married.
The play ts being produced In the style of theperiod In which It was written and first produced. The' stage is being ma'de to look like a Restoration stage, and music and dances are also, in the style of the period. _____.
Old Constitution Found 
To Be Obsolete
Two Gun Ackley Bangs 
Drum; Wins National Fame
Colorful Scotch Noise-Maker Won Spurs In Cafe 
Brawl; Has Settled Down to Diagraming 
Intricate Kiltie^ Band Movements
The Committee on Student Welfare in cooperation witli the Y. M. C. A. has requested anyone knowing of students who have been sent to the hospital or who are In need to notify some member of the committee or the "Y," so that they may be able, to assist ther much as possible.-.The committee was . organized several j-ears ago as a branch of the Executive Board to improve the general "welfare of the student body and to assist individual dents in various ways. The personnel of the committee at present consists of Dean Tarbell, chairman, Dean Green, Mr. A_ E. Risedorph, Mr. R. V. Davis and William Becker, president of Student Council.Among itsimportantactlvities la the providing of radios, newspapers, and magazines ior students who are in hospitals or in the infirmary, and the extending of  financial aid-in cases of emergency illnesses. For several years-the mittee has given annually s'-----
Ways.
The work of the committee Is made possible by the income of a I *und left for that purpose by the ^ Prof. Alexander J. Wurts, and L by donations from campus organi* I zations, as tfce.Y.M. C. A. and the. 
I Faculty Women's'Club' 
Probably the most colorful mem
ber of the Carnegie Kiltie Band is 
Charles M. Ackley 35, all-Ameri
can drummer. He was 'given the 
title last year when he was named 
on the New York Sun all-American 
band.
Gunner, as be Is known to bis 
close friends, or Two Gun, as he 
is known to those who know bim 
better' is a real army man. He 
served, one enlistment with the 110th Infantry National Guard, and graduated as cadet-major fromR. O. last year, 'monicker
T. C.
ofiMe: 1 c an _ ; drillCharles Ackley master of the 
band he plans all movements and 
formations.
Is Easily Recognized 
 Menmu Gu?i.can-easi!?.be .spotted 
in the organization because of his unorthodox swinging of his ribboned drum sticks and his 'prancing; dancing movements, dentally, Gunner1____ _____ introduced ta
the band the two-handed bass rtwim-a genuine - * *. Scotph instrument. It is on this Scotch i maker that he excels.The band this year Is composed of sixty-four members, a great number oft which are freshmen. The Carnegie Band is. unique in that it is the only college band
have to be imported fi Scotland. This accounts for the limited number in th band, sincei only, seventy kilts availMany of. these have i refused because of the . heavy schedule' to the members. Tbls year" the band has played at the Geneva, and Miami football games. Present plans indicate that the band will play for the rest of the home games and the New York University game at New York.The band has In recent year troduced. novelties which have been copied by other schools, few of th novelties originated by the band are the sending of school pennants Into tbe air with the. aid of balloons and1 the leaving by means of cenfettl the outlf letter or other formations fcctfccl-Seld. ..........Many surprises are planned for tbe remaining games. Although Mr. Ackley would not reveal their nature, he did intimate that tbls years novelties will be1 the biggest things ever attempted by the Kilties,. , '
Institute of Chemical Engineers be held at the University club on November 17.Brisbane will discuss some aspects of chemical engineering hich are of public interest. The banquet will be followed by a dance In tbe Clubs ballroom.
Leading industrialists of the chemical profession, as well as any prominent lo.cal citizenB, will be present at this occasion.
The banquet will be the climax to the 27th Annual Meeting of the Institute, to be held at tbe Hotel Scbenley, November 14 to 17. Preceding the convention, there vrlll be 9. popular lecture in tbe oudiof the H. C. Flick Training
school on "Glass and Astronomy from the OpUck Tube of Galileo to the 200-inch mirror by Dr. John Hostetter, a director 'of the Corning Glass Works. Tbls lee?
daily life.
Plan Technical Sessions Three forenoons will be devoted i technical sessions where chemical engineers from many of the largest chemical firms, some local, will discuss problems connected with the applications and principles of their profession. Upperclass
ed in chcmlcal engineering in. genriely of processes in iinspectdumber of manufacturing plants of tbe Pittsburgh district. These include the manufacture of laminated board and tubing at the Micarta
plant of the Westlnghoii! Electric and Manufacturing Company.
To Visit Aluminum Company 
The woll-equlpped laboratories i>f tbe Aluminum Company of
the fabrication of a multitude of aluminum articles. Automatic large scale welding equipment and _ >e manufacture of the latest type are to be seen in operation at (he National Tube and tbe Byers Company.
The St. Joseph Lead Company ant Includes the roasting of zinc blend, a contact sulfuric acid plant.
The Davison Coke andIron Company has a small Koppers installaIncluding blaBt furnace and wet'and dry process gas purlfaction. The Mine Safety Appliance Company is of interest in tbe manmets, and the molding of rubber
Revise Arts 
Constitution
Student council has recently ap
proved the new Arts senate Con
stitution which was written In lieu 
of the recomendatlon of last years 
student council that all senates 
bring their constitutions up to 
jlate,,' paying--particular' Attentionto the - items which have been 
points of controversy during tl^e 
past years.
constitution provides 
places on the Arts senate ior 
every class officer In the school. 
The Senate will consist of . 13 votvoting members. 
The voting members are the class 
officers of the sophomore, junior, 
and'senlor classes,' and the Arts 
School representative of student 
The non-voting members shall be the four freshman class ofand the. representative to athletic council from Art School. 
All Departments Represented 
A provision has been made whereby, if in the new set up, It
tlve who shall have no vote.
 Discussion is now under foot to ascertain, whether a girl inSchool shall be eligible to_____th presidency of her class. Also whether the position of vice president of th art .school senate and th vice .president of the senior class shall ~b considered astone office or shall be divorced into two. When definite decisions are reached on these points they shall be incorporated into the constitution as amendments.
The new constitution was writby William Landsberg
dent. It wasapproved by tho Arts senate at its first meeting this
Student Directory 
Off Press In Oct.
I beoff tbe press and ready for distribution before the end of the month. Tbe exact date of publication Is not known. However, Mr. Dana has intimated that the Directory will go on sale on Tuesday, October .30...........................
As in years "past, the new Student Directory will contain a great deal of information concerningstudent body and its a7 student enrolled, liis , school, address, teler, as well as his class and department^ will be listed..The Directory will have included in pages a complete roster of the ribus societies that exist on Carnegie campus. It will also list the telephor* numbers of the fraternities and dormltorie 
A Student Directory useful possession. In 1923 the
hical meetings as guests.; During tbe afternoon: bers will liave an opportunity
Fraternities 
Hold Chapel
Sauce for the Gander^ 
Is Speaker's Topic
in the Little Theater, College Arts. Sauce for the Gander' is the subject of Dr. Edwin j. Van Ettene address. Dr. Charles Watkins,, asslstant ttt the president, \-jill be. in. charge.The' musical' po gram has been an partment of Music. Milton Berlin, tenor, will rehder "O Salutarls Hoslla by Cauperla-Krleslei
Is accompanist and coach In the Department of Music. 
Interfraternlty . Council is sponging the service today. They ive sent notices to the various aternlties asking men to attend . a body. The Y. W. C. A.'and the Y. M. C. A. of C&rnegie will also attend the service In a body. Th servlc today will be thefirst In the history of chapeli on the' Carnegie campus that organization, other than the Y.
Plebe Class Officers 
Will Be Elected Today
Croft, Lewis Go On Air As Tartan Resumes Broadcast
C. Dozer Will Announce 
Programs Featuring 
Campus Notables
The radio voice of the Carnegie impus will be heard on the Tar* n Quarter Hour program at 7:15 tonight over station WWS\y. Football co-captains, Libbus Lewis and Thurman Croft, will be tbe first guest speakers In the series which will bring one or more campus no*
All technical
:ual announcing will .be done by
Hour program is
exclude outside talent Any
llze school talent during tbe fit* teen minute broadcast. -
Dozer Will Announce Carl M. Dozer *36, Department of Drama, director of the Quarter Hour Js no novice before the. microphone. A veteran announcer of wide experience, for the past year he has been affiliated with station WCAE of Pittsburgh. He bas been heard announcing a score of programs the Blue netwotk of. the National Broadcasting Company: Last yeaf-hg-was; .the1 radUr/volce of the'Dally Cmivallan progromr
Program Contains Songs Tonights program will be open* ed with a musical presentation by the Three Scotch Lassies, Alyce L.
Douthltt 36 doing the vocalizing. The opening number will' be I Saw Stars followed by "Im a Builder Upper and'a medley of popular Carnegie tunes. The Three Scotch Lassies all hall from tbe Department of Music;Stars on the program will be Libbus Lewis and Thurman Croft. In their own manner they will describe the Ins and outs of the Carnegie team and, just what It 1s that makes Coach Harpsters football machine tick.Earl Wild *37. Department of Music, is . the concert pianist on this evenings initial program.
Registration 
Figures Show 
Drop of 15
Enrollment Is Now 2154, 
M.M. Gains 53 Eng. 
School LoeeB 47
Safety Valve, New Campus Group, 
Spnsors Open Forum Discussions
Scimitars Will Hold 
Tea Dance Thursday
Baron Elliot *and bis orchestra will play at a tea dance to be held In Thistle Hall,. Thursday afternoon, from 4 to 6 o'clock. The admission price, will be 25 cents. The dance Is .being sponsored by Scimitars, sophomore honorary.
A floor show will be the feature of the afternoons program.' This
rday night; ' They :
I COMING EVENTS
4:30Y. W. C. A. Dinner MeetingLaurel Hall.' -SrlS1''Ltrvefoi ucwe-i-Der<. <ifDramaLittle Theater.Thursday11:30Safety Valve ClubIndustries 255-A.4:00Scimitar Tea.DanceThistle Hall.8:15Molecular > Physics ScmlnarE. H.113..........................8:15'Love fcr Love. Dept.-of DramaLittle Theater.
ll:0QHoaieccmiBg Registration Brown House.8:15Love for Love, Dept, of DramaLittle Theater.9:00Mens Fail Dorm Dance Thistle Hall.SaturdayStrictly Non-Partisan Group 
Welcomes All Students 
To Meeting Thurs.
The Safety Valve, a discussion 
group newly organized 
pus, met last week to discuss plans 
for the years activities. Tbe 
ganization intends to stir thought 
among students . concerning con
temporary problemssocial, politi
cal, and economicby sponsoring opeft forum discussion^:    -.......
The group is to be strictly nonpartisan, being organized principally to affor-d-an opportunity for free exchange of ideas on topics of interest to all. Tire Safety Valve welcomes students of both conservative and liberal opinions to join in its weekly discussions.
A petition for recognition has been submitted to Student Council for consideration at Its meeting this evening. While awaiting official recognition; elections have been held and officers are William* -L&adsb-ec-s<s/i E&llp-Kramer 36, secretary.
The Safety Valve meets every Thursday at 11:30 In Room 2B6-A, Industries.Arts, Engineering 01 Morrison, are invited t
FRATERNITY GRANGES 
Several changes have been, made
Lambda, disbanded last June. The following fraternities have changed addresses  or phone numbersAlpha Phi Delta, 3526Mornlng^-Golf for Homecoming | Forbes street, MA 1841; Alpha TauAlumni.'2:00Carnegie vs. PurdueThe Stadium.7:00Informal Dinner Dance Hotel Scbenley.8:15"Love for Love, Dept, of Drama-Little - Theater.
Forbes street. SC 2646: Phi Sicma Kappa, Englebrecht Hall, SC 9843; Sigma Nu; 4921 Forbes street, SC 937; and Tau Delta Phi; 4929 Forbes street,. SC. 9027.;
The registration figures which 
were released* to the Tartan Fri
day showed an enrollment of 2154. 
Tbls is a decrease of 1C over a 
comparable period last year. 
"The-freahrhHnr"clBSB~is''practical
ly. the same with  total of 559 
.registered In comparison to the ,561 
year ago.
The junior class is larger than 
last year by 24r The graduate and 
spedai groups also showed an In
crease. this y^ar. There are eight------graduates studying hero andore special studenis than a year ago.
Slight Decreases Noted 
The decrease by classes over st'semester last year is: senior, sub-senior, 8; sophomore, 45; freshman, 2; and short course,. 9. The distribution of the total Slstratioc by e!
other colleges showed a small decrease. The college of Engineering bad the greatest drop with a decrease of 47. The decreases In the other schools are as follows: College of Fine Arts, 4; Engineering freshman, 6; Carnegie LibraryScltool, il. ..........-...........-
1112 In Engineering
The largest enrollment Is in the College of-Bnfiineprlng where there are 1112 enrolled. Tbls total is dlvfded among the classes as follows: graduates, 39; seniors, 216; juniors, 267; sophomores, 286; freshmen, 300; short course students, 6; and special students, 9.
In the College oi Fine Arts, the enrollment of 546 is divided among the classes as follows: graduates, 2; seniors, 120; sub-seniors 21;-- 132;, i;ana special students, 18.
In Margaret Morrison Carnegie College tbere are 486 enrolled. The division by classes is: seniors, 115; juniors, 97; sophomores, .101; freshmen, 128; and special students, 45.
There are ten seniors listed iu the Carnegie Library School.The final figures for first semester registration will not be available until the end of the semester.
I COVNCiL BRIEFS
i major reports of i ne up for dlscuasloimeeting of the Stu<___Council. Council took the follow^ Ing action:
Approved the budget or negie Tartan in the same .fit was tabled at a previo_.___Ing. 'Authoritative comment, caused .reversal of Council oplclau on the budget.
Approved the budget of the Kiltie Band for Its proposed activity during tbe year.
Heard a report of the Foreign Relations' Committee inviting allQOiito attend tbe ? mopolitan Club.
. Bell and Clock Tower-Committee was instructed to get in touch with
37 Freshman Candidates 
Turn In Petitions 
For 12 Offices
College Senates 
Are ln Charge.
Former Elections Qeld Under 
Guidance of Studcnt 
Couocil Chairman
Tbe annual election df officers: of tho ' freshman class In the College of Engineering, tbe College of -. Fine Arts, and Margaret Morrison, will be held at noon today. Tbe polls will be open In tho various colleges from-11:30 to 1:30.
For the first time ln tbe history of Crnegle student governm
Senate of the college In which tho election Is being held. Heretofore, campus elections were held unde*, the guidance of the Student Connell Chairman or Elections and whoms.oover ho could get to holpi / It Is believed by Student . Council that tbls i
i and will greatly facilitate the routine work involved.
enates Supervise Voting 
Although tbe elections will .bo supervised by the various. college..
the direction of the Chairman ot
In the College of Fine Art& nlli elect, a vice presldeiit. In bath tbd College of Engineering andMat*: . garet Morrison, the candidate president receiving the secon-;- highest number of votes willauto* matlcally become vice presidents 
The-plvraHtyi Bystfim c* voting - will be In offoctj Eanb member of . the' class will vote tar one candidate foreach office and tbe .person receiving the most votes will?/ be declared winner. _ ,
'List of Candidates 
The following is the complt.: list of candidates' for the varions offices as they will appear on the: ballot:
PRESIDENT FRESHMAN CLASS: 'AllenT Alrwron. H. C. Blue. Robert Z*Idmu. v VICE-PRESIDENT FRESHMAN CLASS I 
SECRETARY FRESHMAN CLASS: FredTREASURER FRESHMAN CLASS; John C nr u>n. a ^ or^nrtiin.
PRESIDENT FRESHMAN CLASS : JoMpta 1stbali Waller Retd, Raytmn Ztefftor.Yr;'- SECRETARY FRESHMAN CLASS t 
ehryo*hpo FRESHMAN CLASSI Sub:__iRY FRES-^*^Wayne ""UlU tKfciSHWAN__________nberg, William : 
:glc' Cotes---RothMllllknn, Lou I sc Pnce, Helen Scuai ' SECRETARY FRESHMAN CLASS:
PRESIDENT FRESHKAN CLASS:' HeTc''
Gertrijda
STO^REPRSETATIVE : Martha
feas*- My  m& ;
Fraternity Council
Alters Constitution 
Each House. Receives List' 
Of Freshmen Names
Interfraternlty Council approved*- 
certain by-laws which were sug-.- 
gested and submitted at^its meet* 
,ing last.Saturday. The changes-li^ the constitution were proposedby tho executive committee. .
The changes submitted for ap?-provaV at tlie meeting'were:..... -
That the president of each fra-, ternity group must be tbe official representative of that group on the;: Interfraternlty Council, and he' alone will be awarded the key.
That after a-pledge Is broken; with any house the student so acting shall not be rushed by/another fraternity until one semetser has elapsed from the time of his: breakin^.hls . pledge,,, nor shall he be allowed to reside in any fratejy/' nlty house for one semester after', breaking^h1s pledgeshlp. .[-y.x
A complete list of all freshmen-' has been handed out to all the ternitles. This list must be return1 ed tov Interfraternlty'Council wlth.-<- in -two weeks in order that a schedLw ule of dates can be drawn up for-f the various freshmen by. the com-^ xnittee tn charge of rushing. - .The^ list of dates,which is to be arrange ed shall be for various specified, times 'during the first three da'ysv of rushing season. This perlod^ls^ knowii as the RestrictedRut period and is directly before , the' Thanksgiving recess. -.Vii
The schedule for the Restricted1;- -ftusfclngpeYlDtish-ah' ire s various fraternities aa soon aavlty has been compiled. A list of events* will also be handed to the rusheea - which 6how them. Which houses:-, are rushing them and the tlm and: place-of-tbelx wvdp,

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1934
WomensGovt 
Assii Elects 
Beaver Pres.
Discussion Croups Form 
Many Interesting 
Recommendations
Beaver' College i
lege last1 week. The annual ference.for next year will'be held at Beaver, which Is located about twelve miles outside of Philadelphia.
- Other officers elected for next year are, Adelphi College (Long Island), vice president and treasurer, nod Connecticut College for  Women, secretary. ,
Recommendations offered by discussion groups on major problems ol particular interest to Carnegie were, briefly, as follows:
Thai the honor system Is the ideal system, and that the compul7 system of reporting others be
settle the matter with the offender individually; that sororltie: not necessarily interfere with detnic standing; that student i
that the judicial should be only z Incidental function of student gov: eminent.
Prof. Sarah M. Sturtevant, Teachers College, Columbia University,' also' discussed the import* ant topic, The Function of. Student Government on the Modern College Campus, when she spoke at the first general session of the conference.-On the second day, the confer*
W. S. O. Sponsor
Ballet Next April
lauded by many. Although the performance will be given off the campus in order that a larger auditorium may be obtained, the Ballet school project, sponsored by a Carnegie organization.
Members of the Department of Drama, under the direction of James McNaughtou *35, will present the Ballet. Patti Llttelt '35 will be the leading dancer. One portion of last years ' Ba)let and two  new ones will comprise the presentation. The music, much of which was written by Earl Wilde, will be played by a group of music students.
The money raised by this project
C.I.T. Grad is 
New Pitt Dean
. University of Pltts- sion of the advantages and posslopment of the individual Ideal of such activities.. Dean Florence Nicboloson, Ohio .Wesleyan University, spoke the same evening on the psychology Involved in the adjustment of college women to college and to life.  On-the third evening, following aformal dinner, Dean Karl Leetrick, Syracuse University, discussed his experiences with and is opinions on the honor system.
provai of penalties. He alsc
Prof. Will Speak 
To Metals Group
Dr. Gensamer Lectures On 
Deformation of Iron
 the Science, of Metals Club at the Bureau of Mines Auditorium  Thursday evening, October 26, on : Th, Piaster Deformation of Iron." Dr. Gensamer is a member of the class of 1924. After graduation
which time he was offered a position in the metals research labor i&tory at Carnegie.
-plaster flow of Iron and ... grcgates. This will lead to the ..^genesis of preferred orientations
 Ptttebjirgh metallurgists-who felt .' need for a society in which they .could discuss problems of theo.tetical metallurgy.
College Names Spencer 
To Fill Seigs Place
I>r, Herbert Spencer 20, Depart
ment of Mechanical Engineering, 
has been appointed Dean of Men of 
the college of the University - of 
Pittsburgh to succeed Dean L. Paul 
Seig who is to become president of 
the University of Washington.
. Spencer-was born at Whitney 
N. Y. and spent most of his 
boyhood there. As a boy he found job in the general, store serving t clerk, delivery boy, and bookkeeper. After he finished high school he was offered a partnership In the store. Ho declined .because he wanted to go to college but his boyhood endeavors have given him lesson in human relations.
For a year belore he entered Carnegie be worked in an engineerroup with a road construction gang. His father was a contractor, and since the son had similar tenles from boyhood he entered
He became a waiter, a clerk, and held summer jobs in engineering
ir, hoirrled Mildred Pollard. That ntered Carnegie Tech, but he continued to work ?nl to night school. He servan engineer in the aircraft and then was put In charge of the apprentice school at the Westinghouse Alvbralte Company. He hesitated at fivst about taking chlng position, but soon found that he enjoyed it more than any other work, in 1921, Mrs. Spencer .nd he received their degrees from Carnegie. Shortly after th Spencer enrolled in courses ucaUon at the University of Pittst. position was teaching mathematics at Wilkinsburg High
,.latercounselor and vice-principal at Lattimer Junior High School. In 1927 Dr. Spencer was made vlce-princlpal of the Frick elementar
In his six years as principal changed the two-year course to s foyr-year course, with the student: receiving degrees through an af filiation plan with the university.
Although Dr. Davis began the system of teaching grade school pupils to typewrite, Dr. Spencer has carried on successfully. Results of this experiment show how much a student profile by learning type.
Faculty Asked to Apply 
For Tartan Deliveries
Facts About Activities Fee Are Revealed 
In Conjunction ^ith Financial Report
Fee Distributed Between 
Athletic Associations, 
StudentCouncil
Most students have, at one time 
 another, wondered how their 
$15.00 activity fee is expended. 
Realizing the general Interest in 
this subject THE TARTAN has 
prepared the following report.
Last year 1,472 men and 789 woen registered the first semester 
while 1,510 men and 806 women 
enrolled the second semester, maktotal of $34,190.00 in activity
appropriation to Student Council, the balance being turned to the Carnegie institute of Technology Athletic Association.The funds received by Student Council were In turn appropriated by tbat body to student organizaaccording to the consolidated balance sheet published in conjunction with this .article.
W. A. A. Receives $1 a Student 
This -year, however, the proceedtultion scholarship and fosters the i students in athme the C. I. T. A. A. receives $11.25 of each $16.00 ity fee with which to interest all students in lnterscholastlc and Intramural sports. Of the activity fee, the remaining $3.75 is appropriated to Student Coun turn re-appropriate student activities
Trl-Publlcatlon............
Band ...........................Soph Hop ..................1933 Thistle..,.............Womens Scholarship/gC HA R L L1937 M. M. C. C.........1934 M. M. C. C.........1935 M. M. C. C.........Pi Delta Epsilon.........
Freshman All Carnegie..Mens Glee Club..............Womens Glee Club.........W. A. A............................Y. W. C. A.......................Industries Senate ...........Arts Senate ....................Engineering SenateC. C. Senate.........
Military Ball ................1932-1933 Thistle............Mens Junior Prom........Womens Junior Prom...Womens Guild ..............Commencement Ball Carnegie Carnival.........Arts Ball .......................Interfraternity Formal . Greek Sing and Swing...
Totals.............................................Bank Balance September 1, 1934.... Cash Overdraft for Year 1933-1934..
Former Dramat 
Stars In Movies
George Duryea Is Featured 
In Downtown Billing
George Duryea, former student in the Department of Drama, unjler the name of Tom Keene, is star of Our Daily Dread, the ;nt attraction at the Warner Theater. The picture was written, financed, and directed by King Vidor.
Mr. Duryea (Tom Keene) has played largely in western cowboy pictures. In Our Dally Bread
a farm not from Sleepy Hollow and was educated In country schools in bis home town. Bad health forced him to move West. After regaining his health, he came to sLudyt Carnegie. After graduating, his first work was a stock engagement in Newark where he appeared with Mabel Brownell In Madame X. Playing tho lead In "Abies Irish Rose, he toured Australia and New Zealand for a year, an turned to join the Now York pany.of the play.
He learned that Cecil B. DeMllle was looking for a lead opposi Lina Basquette. .After writing short story, he made his o^ screen test, s got the job.
havi offices'to Albert Ralston at the Carnegie Institute of Technology Post' Office, stating the number of copies wanted. There ?xe no extra copies of the first issues of the paperavailable.
and 7:30 to have dinner, after the Newburn Drive, will receive ; New York University football vations. game, at the Hotel Martinique MrS'. S."D.' Ewart, 6709 Thomas Cafe Bar, located at the corner of Boulevard, will recei Thirty-second Street arid Broadway.
CINCINNATI CLAN The officers of the Cincinnati ing planned by the members c Clan who were recently elected president, R. A. Gaines, 217Hartwell, Ohio ; Association...-Klamez> vice-president. Andrew 2676 Duck Creek Road, Norwood, 'Obit* -anti thfe :.-Mrs.-Paul J. Shrlver. Hudson Parkway. Cincinnati. .
........... ... of this __is $1.25. T. N. Griggs of the Union Trust Building will receive - Efigto&sriagPittsburgh; and Margaret Morri**rs. E. W. Channing, 185 Morrison Drive, Pittsburgh.>v 50 will hold a meeting at the The Alumnae of the class of .-College Club at 6:a0. The price 124 will have dinner Friday at the is $1.00. and reservations mav he College Club. Mrs. Eva Parker, ~ " i2a Methyl Street, will accept res-.yations,... Replies liaye been .received from the following: Dorothy
Mrsi G. W. Fornev. Mrs. F. I. GasZenit.netta A. Parker, and Gertrude
A.  T3eo .-'Low J Misi
toh-'-Mrs: Whitney S. Hamnett, IS? a: C. Dixon Harnack. Mrs. jaeofg llv Ktoe.- Mrs: Frank W. -Lowry. - Mrs. James B. Meanov. Miss Hattle G. Merrill. Mrs. James rMIlholland. MrB; George E. Mohler. ;JMiB0 Ana L. SaehiH, Mrs. j. E. -Shllllnger. Miss-. EdnaC. Smith; ~MliB*.Glara I*. >Toudy, Miss Fannie Woodslde.meiTsf;the^Cta of 1914;
The class of 1934 will hai group meeting in Webster Hall at 'r.oO. "Chairmen  nt 1 Teaevvativns are: Engineering, Robert Austin,70 Harwood Street; Fine Arts, Evelyn <1. Beymer, 1232 Hillsdale Avenue: Industries, Louis Squl-tieri. 2373 Eldridge Street: and Margaret Morrison. Loretta ConNew Book Lists 
Announced by Hut
Some of the books recently added to the Hill's co'fiectiOri'are:
The Quest for Security by I. M. fttibinson; America's Recovery Program, Understanding the Big Corporations, Technique of Social investigation by E. L. Fry, Rebel America by Symes, Lillian, and Clement; The Chinese, Their Hi's, tory and Culture Vols. 1, 2 by R. S.
No More Unemployed by J. B. Cheadle and others; Technical Thermodynamics by W. Schule; Design and Construction of High Pressure Chemical Plant by Harold Tongue; Thermody. namlcs of Electrical Phenomena In Metals by H. W. Bridgman; Organlc Synthesis, Vol. 13 and 14; Resonance, Radiation, and Exdl. ud Atoms by K. G. Mitchell and M. W. Zemansky; Portrait of America byDiego; Art as Experience by John Dewey; The Art of Theatrical Makeup by Morton Cavendish; Costume and Fashion, Vol 6, by Herbert Norris and Oswald Curtis; and Turplastlk a - 
H. H. iHook. L. D. Fiddler, Fred W
Harnack, and Liffman From the class of 1914: Pete DeMuth, Marian L. Hutcheson, Eugene Dowling, and John Parke. The class of 1919: Francis J. uttall, 'Mildred...ary Ege . Ewa.._,__tieecideans. The class of iD24; Mr. and Mrs. Warren Thayer, Howard Bowman, Louis Grigrjs, B. J. Bark' ev,' Eleanor Riesmeyer, Cy Comfort, Mildred Abel Krummel, Ma
ter, Henrietta Parker, Gertrude Zenk, and John Habe. Class of 1934: Ronald Austin. Evelvn Ganble Beymer. Loretta Conlm. Jean Ritzel. Leah Voegtley. John Fox. Louis Squitlerl. Jerome-T. Connors, B. D. MiakJmen/and J. H. Wood.
StudentCouncilApprop.Balance Balance 1932-1933 To Date
595.25143.79
751.49t
254.1618.90949.15329.20
gends: "Overdrafts.tDeflclt Submitted by:SAMUEL C. WICKS. JR., Treasurer. ROLLIN V. DAVIS, Executive Secretary.
Many Significant Facts 
Are Disclosed by 
Financial Report
Other than clarifying the dlsposton of the activities fee, the Financial Report, concerning the organizations operating under Sludent Council and prepared by the latr, reveals many^lgnlflcant facts. 
Of the four publications on tbe campus, two, tbe Tartan and TriPublications, are heavily sub: dlzed by Student Council. The Puppet, advertised as the only selfsupportingCarnegie publication, finished the year with an acc deficit of $110.49. The 1934 Thistle deficit of $715.49 as or September 1, 1934, which will becleared upon the collection of outstanding accounts, but even then the management will have leceiv1 no salaries.
Campus musical organizations all receive appropriations from Student Council. Excepting the Womens Glee Club, all operated profitably during the year ending September 1, 1934.
Most Dances Show Profit 
ost of the dances which under Student Council showed profits. The surplus from Soph Hop was divided equally, one half to be transferred to the 1935 Womens Junior and the other half to be transferred to the 1935 Mens Junior Prom. The profit from the FreshmanAll-Carnegie '  1 to the
Junior Prom are transferred to t 1935 Commencement Ball. T! function for 1934 transferred substantial surplus to Student Council. The Arts Ball granted all Its surplus to the Keeble Scholarship fund, thereby clearing it: books. The Interfraternity Formal
Glider Club Hears 
Noted Pilot Speak
Tho Glider Club of Carnegie will 
eet for the first time at 12:30 
Friday. The placc of the meeting 
ill be announced on bulletin 
board notices. August C. Haller, 
glider enthusiast, will speak to the 
club.
.rnegles Glider Club is a new 
iber of the extrai curricular camorganizations.' Club members 
i ambitious plans for tbe fuThey plan to secure a train
ing glider and will conduct . a course in glider pilot instruction.
of the finer sailplane and glider pilots and designers in the United States. He is a graduate of the Department of Aeronautics of CarDegle. At the -present time Mr. Haller has several motorless ships under construction.
Thistle Portraits 
Are Being Taken
Photographs, for the 1935 This 
are now being taken on the ca pus by the Parry Studios. All i niors who Intend having their poibeen made The regular chai
sittings Thistle at the Y office.5 arrangement lias vith the Parry fir j for a studio s ting is one dollar. The first slallment deposit on a yearbook also one dollar. Under the teri of the arrangement both a yearbook subscription and the indlvld ual portrait sitting may be had foi a total of $1.60.
In former years a mlxup in cap tlons and pictures has been a fre quent occurrence. To avoid this dilemma when the deposit is paid at the "Y office the card given a receipt will contain space necessary Information.
Other Profitable Accounl
Y.W.C.A. Will Hold 
Dinner in Laurel Ball
The Y. W. C. A. Will hold the first dinner meeting of the year Wednesday at 4:30 in the Laurel Hall Dormitory on Forbes street. Dr. Schuyler Garth, pastor of the 'irist Methodist Episcopal Church 111 be the speaker.Ic bis talk Dr. Schuyler will stress the "C" in Y. W. C. A. This keeping with the "Y program Tor the year which will enphasize the Christian theme in the student organization. The meeting will close with Informal group singing.This is the first time one of thu dormitories has been utilized for a Y dinner. - Tbe meeting in Hanrel Hall -will give - commuting girls an opportunity to see dormitory life. The arrangements
W. C. A. has planned.
Army Names 
Cadet Officers
Juniors, Seniors Vote 
At Thursday Drill
Nine honorary cadet officers for the Annual Military Ball will be chosen Thursday by the junior and senior members of the R. O. T. Cunit. Ten bands have been contacted and a temporary decision now rests on Dick Fiddlers orchestra.Eighteen senior women from Margaret Morrison and the College of Fine Arts will vie with one an other for tbe honorary officer positions. Election results wll name nine of the candidates to lead the Ball November 9. The Ing the largest vote
next two ranking women will bear 
eligible foithe title of majors.The eighteen w the nine offices kinson, Esther M, BrumbaugL Agnes P. Cancelller, Lois E. Con ley, Betty M. DomhofF, Rose Marii Grentzer, Anne H. Hill, Veronics A. Kloos, Margaret H. Griffin Nancy A. McQuade, Marie A. Mot
Schieids, Jane L. Sloan, Helen M
mts which operated 1 Steibel, and Madolin Vautrlnot.Otheiat a profit were llie Spring Carnival, which transferred a surplus of $1,137.70 to Student Council, the Women's Guild, Arts Senate. Y. W. C. A and the 1937 M. M. C. C.Accounts closing the year at a loss were the Women's Scholarship Organization, Women's Dormitory Council, Mortar Board.
and 1934 M. M. C. C. The fact that these accounts are listed here as operating at a loss does not mean that their treasury is exhausted. Several carried a sufficient surplus from the year ending Scptem-ber 1,, to maintain a faviby
break.Brown Dally Herald.
Choose Orchestri - Included in the list of recommended musical units are the bands of Fletcher Henderson, Maurice Spitalny, Merle Jacobs, Austin Wylie,
stand of Thistle Hallemblazoned with a replica! doughnuts.
C. I. T. Prof. 
Made Officer 
In Naval Res.
Krivobok Commissioned 
Lieut. Commander 
As .Result of Work
The appoinLment as Lieutenant.
In July.
The appointment came as a result of Dr. Krlvoboks work with a group, of 12 men sent by the C. s. Navy to do graduate work under him. The first two of these :who came in 1929, now hold pi___nent positions in tbe U. S. Gun Factory at Washington, D. G Each of the Naval students \ _ given definite Instructions by the government a'e to what line of i. earch he would pursue while at
that has come to Dr. Krivobok in the last few months. Recently he delivered tbe annual Campbell Memorial Lecture to the National Metals Congress in New York. He has also delivered seveml papers to technical societies since he baa been connected with Carnegie.
Before the World War Dr. Ki vobok was connected with tbs ordnance department of the Russian Government and during the war he did some work for them while in the United States. While in Washington be delivered several addresses to metallurgists there and is well known In Washington technical circles.Dr. Krivobok, a Russion by birth, has been in this country about 15 years. He received bis naturalization papers in 1924, about tho time he became affiliated with Carnegie. He holds degrees from both the Polytechnical Institute of St. Pe( tersburg and Harvard University. .
Sophomores Sponsor I 
Party Next Monday
by the class.At a class meeting last Thursday, Margaret Fitzgerald was named head of the refreshments committee. The committee will include Helen McCrea, Anne Challinor, and Anna McCullough. Refresh:onsist of cider and
of the Scabbard and Blade badge. On each side of tbe orchestra will be the signal corps.and the engineering corps insignias. All lighting will be indirect.A novel feature designed to give the Ball a military atmosphere will be the nmes given to various portions of Thistle Hall. The ticket takers will work in a booth labeled Finance Officers. A sign oyer the lobby will be captfoned Officers Club. All eatables will be purchased from the Post Exchange and
Dorothy Booth will be in charge of the entertainment. Her committee includes Helena Euxbaum, Louise Baldy, Guriy Duro, and Elizabeth Laymen.Miss Jane Maxwell of tbe Department of Science, who was elected adviser at a recent class meeting, will be present at the party.
- Stanford University can claim the honor of having a State Stadium,1* It has been shown that the enti
Its toasted
threat infection against irritationogainst ttagh
Cerrltht 19H. Th Am vieil
The worlds finest tobaccos are used in Luckies 
the Cream of the Croponly the clean cen
ter leavesfor the clean center leaves are the 
mildest leavesthey cost morethey taste better,

---------------------------------------------------

m
THE QARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1934
THE 
TUESDAY 
QUARTERBACK 
e
BY JERRY HANSON
THE HARPSTER JINX"they are touting It. Whatever it le, the weather certainly Isn't giving Carnegie the breaks. Saturdays drizzle held the attendance down to about one-haif of what was hoped forand that hurts in Itself.Noire Dame didn't look very great, and Coach Laydea admits that his Irish lack the fight which they'usually have claim to. The South Bend aggregation put on a very ordinary. exhibition, and showed a deficit la what is know'll as push." Layden used about forty players throughout the game, Including five quarterbacks, a factor with which the Tartans were unable to compete.
THE CHANGE IN THE.. BACK FI ELD COMBINATION didn't seem to have much effect Mlhm. held down the quarterback position well enough, but there was no added color to the Plaid technique. The entire right end of the line was weak at the start, and remair.sd so just long enough to demand a change. Kay Burns played one swell
also.I good, consistent brand of ball
icond Irish 1simply too
Although the field was covered wttl rain had Its effect on the tourney, espec fense was concerned. Neither team ac air, save Notre Dame on the second scoiIt's the score that counts, so that's.that. ................wasn't the fault of the Tartan players, for the Plaid tired to offer any resistance. .Bill Shakespeare was outstanding on the Notre Dame line-up. His kicking was' noticeably better than. Joe Mlhms, and that Is saying pretty much. Don Elser, of Notre Dame, did not show up a swell as he did last year.
| rather spotty exhibition, showing weakness in the fundamentals. Plebe i H. Fryer, back, was the outstanding player on the Tartan line, where | be handled 6n end position. The Panthers have a pretty husky freshult of the baton twirling c same very excited ov< cognized the Plebes'6light expression of public opinion, which for juggling the 6ceptre.The magnanimous Mr. Sharp dcs<
Alumni aggregation. The s
It to be much improved scribe waa called to acco more attention to details.And for the first time In years the sports staff has come to terms with a downtown newspaperChester Smith extends the cordial Invitation to Use the mats from his department I had a beauty picked out eks spread, but the durned thing cut about five dollarsworth of advertising off the page.
geant Somnere proteges i
1 . Last year. Individually and as a team, the riflemen made an cxcel[ lent showing locally and nationally. An early start, with consistently I good returns on the marksmanship rating, gives promise of another I successful season for this years team.
-eportera. Candidates are to be reassured that ffaternlty prejudice, contrary to Ill-meant rumors, has nothing to do with selection of men for sports writing, it Is always the guyI with guts enough 1ntrolled by the Individual s years that gets to the top,
Carnegie Schedule Does Not Show 
Relief in List of Remaining Games
New York U. and TempIe U. 
Are Next, Both Away; 
Locals Are Tough
With the defeat at the hands of Notre Dame, 13-0, there remain just five games to be played by the Tartans of 'Carnegie. These games will all be tough ones and will either make or brake the Plaidreputation-withthoir resu^i?___the game with Purdue ie discussed at great length elsewhere on' the page, it will be eliminated at this point.  N. Y. U. Troublesome .
Next In line, after the Purdue encounter, comes the game with New York University at the Yankee Stadium in New York City. Always a bee in. the. bonnets of the Plaid grlddei9, N. Y. U. does'not appear to make an exception.of this year. While not a particularly strong hall club, last week eking out only a 12-7 victory-over Lafayette, th boys from the big city can still be depended on to make a lot of trouble for the Scot team.Temple SuccessfulOh the next Saturday, November 10-, Carnegie journeys to Philadelphia, home of the Constitution and the Athletics, to play Temple. Victorious over West Virginia last Friday night, 28-13, Temple also should make things' hum tor the Skibo eleven. Pop CVarner in his second year at Temple has a few of his former charges from CaliforDla. frgh.tJp3; for. bip>, jind .his .team
Womens Athletics
. by------
MARGIE GREEN
the;"large: : numbers ''that_______for every praclice-^-uBually enough lor two simultaneous games; It is -reitrer:ditneutt;Td train the'goalted Inproper .technique. Consequently Betty Is arranging special practices for; them and plans 'to-- appoint .threeotthem.for.the freshman teai .and-one each, for tho Bophomote "nd^Juniorteams ' You ...would be surpriseS^-learn how rattch thre really iB-.to^the position 
ioal-kecplng]^the\numeroui ipehas. been fairly successful to date.Dukes Beat Indiana 'Following tho Temple game, the Tartan team meets their inter-city rivals, Duquesne University. Fresh from their victory over Haskell's Indians, 67-0, the boys from the heights are anxious to continue their winning ways for tho rest of the season. The game between Carnegie and DuqueBne will bn looked os with much interest by iP.P.rts. pages of^e.yarlouB.papers. We shall 'the results of the nest few weeks, before anything resembling a predictioncan be made __
As usual on Thanksgiving day the Plaid eleven and Pitts Panthers close their season with another inter-city game. Pitt is considered one of the most powerful teams iii the Country, and in spite of theirdefeat at th ' hands of.............Minnesota team, Pilt is by most authorities, eve early date, a more than good chance to romp easily over the Plaid,
own. Agnes Stevens is planning a cross-country hike for us on Satcial privileges involved in it makes it one of the most exciting positions of the game. If you are interested,be sure to see Betty about prac
tice.
~ The board held a noon meeting lastFriday, wherein many interesting , coming events
. -. six people in various, sections of the-city have been hounding her for our patronage. Now' 1 ask you, what can a poor, defenseless manager do when each o: Insisting that his rates and alleys are the best that we can obtain? However, Jayne has promised to give us the verdict within the next two . weeks, after which the bowling -season will officially open.
  -fTivtf  Quting-club, -anctiie?subject of vital Importance at the
dont get clear 
across the country, Im sure we 
,mkick.gaf.-frf.-th Irtfiiy.
C.S. EDMAN
PRINTER 6470 Monitor Street
Purdue Hoilermakcrs Invade Carnegie Saturday
Game To Be Feature 
Of Homecoming Week
Duane Purvis and Jim Carter, Stellar Halfbacks, 
Lead Invasion for Purdue; Tartan Lineup 
Not Definitely Decided; Odds Even
By James Hughes
The feature of the Homecoming this week-end will be the 
second annual game betwe'cn the Tortans of Carnegie and the 
Boilermakers of Purdue University. Prom all indications, this 
should be one of the best and most-evenly matched games on the 
TarUin schedule this season.
Purdue Has Reputation 
Purdue has always had one of the 
strongest outfits In the mid-west, 
and in 1929 - won the Big Ten cham
pionship. Although they liave not. 
actually won that title since, theyhave been one of the strongest con
tenders, and have furnished plenty 
of trouble for their opponents. This' 
year they are again putting up a 
very excellent battle, despite the 
loss of eight regulars and twenty lettermen.
And Grid Stars 
Although the Bollermarkers have lost such a large number of men. they still, have two men who wero probably the best and the outstanding players on their team last year.Duane Purvis and Jim Carter ave two of the greatest backs In the annals of Purdue football history.,-Purvis was considered by muny last year to be the outstanding back In the country, and was named on the All-American as halfback. He Js one of the most versatile players on the field today, and can be depended upon to do almost anything in the way of football.
Jim Carter was the leading scorer i the Purdue eleven last year, for 3 Is the type of player who cau break away at the most unexpected limes for long runs toward the. goal.His running ability was very ably demonstrated against the Tartans last year, when he made, two touchdown runB of 90 and 53 yards.
Around there two great backs.Noble Klzer has built a well-rounded team. Klzer is himself a Notre Dame man, and is claimed by many authorities in the game to be the lutstanding exponent of the Notre -Dame system.
iHave Developed Strength On the Purdue schedule are included besides the Tartans, Rice,Notre Dame, Wisconsin, Chicago,Iowa, Fordham, and Indiana. The first two of these games did not go So well as far as the Boilermaker were concerned. Rice provided one of the big upsets of the season when they knocked off Purdue by two. .touchdowns. The next week Notre Damefollowed with a win over the Boilermarkers by 18-7.,Coach Kizer seems to have done something-to strengthen the team i then, however, for they gained a fairly strong hold on the Big Ten championship this last Saturday when they defeated Wisconsin by a ore of 14-0.
By the old method of comparing scores, which doesnt prove any* thing definitely, and yet gives some Idea of what to expect, the Tartans a fairly even chancc of winning this game. Considering' that Notre Dame beat Purdue by a : which was' worse than that by which they took over the Skibos, the odds seem to be good. (However, another angle might be taken into consideration. Purdue man; aged to score on Notre Dame, while Carnegie did not. That fact may or may not mean something also.Tartan Lineup Unchanged
Carnegie Soccer 
Season Started
teaiday, by playing the strong Munhall High Alumni aggregation to a 2*2 deadlock.
Tony Prendes, former star of the Malvern College team in England, now playing the center.-' forward, position of the Plaid team, was outstanding, scoring both goals for his team. ..The Tartans presented a well-coached squad, tihd with' a few more games under theii* belts should be as strong as any college eleven in the district. Captain l>ubin, Prendes, Ed Reed, former Hagerstown, Md.. High star, Corning, Giollna, Floyd, Pendleton, Lalll, Dave Higgin, Kissel, Provost, and Cutulie, played for Carnegie.
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
S&2 FOR6ES STREET
as you would choose 
....... a friend. :-
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Perhaps with a little more experi
menting, Coach Howard Harpstef 
will be able to build up a team 
which will be able to function with a little more coordination and ease than it has been doing in the
ing lineup,, there will probably not be much change from that of the last game, unless some very \ pected and drastic unheavals take
under cover by wise opponents and hasnt had much chance to do anything lately, he will still be ready gain every possible Inch, i ~ gets away. Joe Mlhm can certainly be depended upon for a great display of kicking, not to mei line-bucking. .Should any need for It arise, Joe will be ready to s;game with the old booter, he has - had the opportunity, too
should develop Into a really capable player.
Since Mlhm has been shifted to the quarter position, Harpster has quite a group from which
ly good material In reserve that there should not be too much to worry about from that angle,
Tartan Plebes 
Outplayed By 
Piti Freshmen
Bigger Panther Frosh 
Show Strength In 
Winning 12-0
placed the Skibos In a safe poslRosentbal tumbled < play and the visitors recovered < -the twenty-ynrd line. In three plays
touchdown. The rest of the half found both teams pushing back and forth near the middle of the . field.In thei third quarter Rosenthal forestalled another Pitt tbreaL when he leaped high In the air to Intercept a pass on his own twentyyard line, where the opponenls had advanced the ball on a series of end runs and line bucks.
. Fryer Stare Carnegies only serious attempt came in the fourth quarter. Fryer, vho has been playing in the backeral plays before kicking. On tho third play . Fryer eluded the Panther tackle and broke through to recover a fumble on the twenty. The Plaid did little with tho opportunity, however, and surrendered tho ball after , failing to make a first down. The .visitors kick put the game back in Tartan territory. End Run Scoi
in hot water,. Kopsak, who had been removed from the game early because of an injury, returned to the line-up, but had difficulty in getting off effective punts. Pitt finally capfter. touchdown went wide. Tartans Outclassed The outstanding Tartan player was Fryer, who went in for Dwarskl In the -third quarter and did a
r left end. The visitors star was Stapulls. The Carnegie line was noticeably' - slower on the charge, and the Carnegie tackling seemedless effective than that of Pitt. The Tartan plebes were inferior in kicking . performance. Neither team gained much distance over guard or center; both pivot men held off advances with little difficulty. In the air CamePlaid Bows To Irish 
In Unimpressive Battle 
On South Bend Field
Teams Perform Poorly 
As Muddy Gridiron 
Slows Attacks
Lack Of Reserves 
Costly To Tartans
Long Run And Pas Score 
For Irish In First And 
Third Quarters
lion shoved the Scotch JJsiless battlo of mud' at South Bend. The Irish scored twice from long dlstnuccs but showed little punch on straight drives down tho field. The play of both teams was
est variety that didnt give tho r ovated bnckfleld a chance lo ehov
Another sad feature of the gtimo was the apparent lack of adequate Tartan reserves, in the course of the contest Layden used 40 players
shoddy with sad results. It Js the opinion of many that the Notre Dame victory of this year was as much a fluke us the Carnegie victory of last yoar. However, there was also a certain fire and flght
overcome the lead, but just trying to not let It become any largor. Mlhm at quarterback was obviously playing ter the breaks, usually
jaunt behind very eftectivi ferenco'luound right end goal line. The sccond touchdown came when Pllney look pass standing behind the Carnegie "goal. The Tartans.thveatened twice
pass from Terebus behind the-goal line. Occasionally the Plaid ehow; cd bursts of power In stopping tho Notre Dame offensive but theso were rather spasmodic.The Irish attack was mostly on
HEALTH BULLETIN
not deflation.2. Stand tallremove the sway
3. Put unemployed muscles to . work.4.' Snap out of the shoulder slump. 6. Use your mirror and checkyourself.ARE YOU A SLOUCH7 .
tlio ground, the only 'pass they 
completed being the touchdown 
.piny. The total yardage gained 
178 yards to Techs 19, the 
South Bonders registering live first 
downs from ruBhing. The Plaid ac
counted for three flrsl downs but 
two of these, were from penalties. 
Again the Tartans showed their 
poor 'ball handling with four fum
bles, but theso may. be attributed to 
a web ball on tho muddy field.
Five Highest Scores 
From Range Results
Abrlno ___Broadhead Mellinger.
Pr. Kl. Sd. Tl. .. 97 05 66 283 ..97 07 84 276 .. 90 92 77 267 ..97 68 79 264 .. 96 97 73 260
................1,347
Basketball Squad 
Trains On Track
Sea6on Schedule Complete 
With Nine Home Games
<AIax Haunuui, coach of tho Carne
gie varsity basketball Bquad, has re* 
quested that all those interest! - In
going out for the squad report in 
the Trophy Room next Thursday 
afternoon.at 4:30.- Several'of. the 
men who were odt tor the team last 
year ave already working out on 
the track to get their legs in shapo 
for - the coming season. Official 
practise will not begin until the 
first of November.  ,
The schedule fov this year is com* 
piete nt this time and resemble 
closely tho one of Inst year with a 
Tew additions.
Tartan Basketball Schedule 
December 35  Georgetown, hero, Saturday. 
January 3  Westminster, hero, Thursday.
'January 6West Virginia, here, Saturday.
January 8Pill, here, Tuesday.- 
January 11Duqnesne, there, Frl* day.
January 22W. & J., thore, Tues*
- Georgetown, thore.
February lt>Buckuoll, here, FrlFebruary 10W. & J., here TueaFobruary 22Penn State, there, Friday.February 23Bucknell, there. Sat*
March 2Pitt, thore, Saturday March GDuquosne, beta, -Tues
requested to report t the "Y" office at 12:30 today:
A man who has hem smoking Gti^ger for a long time said this:
"A package of Granger gives
"My pipe is about average size, and smoking it leisurely as I like to do, a pipeload of Granger lasts me about 25 minutes, and that means that I get about 21 good pipeloads from every package." Was there ever so much enjoyment for so small a cost?"
19S< IuaniiUwTeiittD^.
...ma
common-sense 
'e10c
the pipe tobacco thats MILD 
the pipe tobacco that's COOL
Jolis seem to Jiie i?

---------------------------------------------------

reo TO JumowEE zso
E7tM--b-CS .
nmg 'frr  Fu. Ffsabsnib %3t Ofice u TecocnCoCT'. EcMCEi y*aiL&ajraE E 
ttPT editc_- __ .E2AI> EDfTOR; Gy*= Huieck.
JUNIOR 52)TTOE5: Walzer^|ow. Jtorparg^
WjTOaic Iird. A13rta SfeClW. toe. .Hory Ejifcaaai, Karhesine
aPDHTTS STAFF: J.
CIECUtATtON' STAFF:
- A Stump To Stand On
T
HE P0EJC&TI03? of a discassfos grasp os 
(be campus fulfills a need that baa bees 
sadly neglected at Carnegie for a long line. 
It provides aa. open forum when* students eas 
discuss national and International affairs and 
urtve at conclusions concerning them. It 
shows definitely students ARE interested 
in current problema, that they hare opinions 
to be heard. Tills Is their stamp to stand a 
to air their views, their baltleSeld upon wLIcit 
they <^-T! wraugfe oat their tffsagTeemepf?.
Practically every eoiiege and university of 
repute [n the coon try has a group of this 
sort on tie campus. Probably the most fa
mous oi the lot arethe proud old Americas 
Whig and Cliosophic societies at Princeton 
which have been carrying os for almost 230 
years. We hope to-see the Carnegie group 
develop along the same lines. We look for 
the formation, withla the group, of two fac
tions, oner of liberal attitude and the other of 
conservative attitude, which wfn take definite 
stands' on each problem discussed. We ex
pect that the probiems to be discussed win be 
tied downto realities and not be purely hypo
thetical Questions.
Adjusting to life
S
TUDENT response to last Tuesday's edi
torial Those Who Fall by the .Wayside"
. caTta fur an amplification of the Tartan's stand 
-with respect to the Introduction of a student 
personnel advisory system at Carnegie. Many 
of the letters received, some of which appear 
on peg* 5 of this issue-, reveal a certain 
amount of misunderstanding of the Tartan's 
objectives, some anticipation of forthcoming 
.dftortal statement, as well as an encouraging 
am cum of agreement.
'Personality adjustment Is the college studeut's-greatcst problem, a problem as difficult 
-of-solution to the successful student as ft Is 
to the scholastic failure. That aa inadequate 
adjustment to this life problem reflects itself 
directly in the student's work is both a tru
ism and a definite Justification for the demand 
that the Administration shoulder frft part ot 
Its. educational responsibility.
What makes tbJ3 problem of adjustment so 
insidious is the t&ct that It can be present 
.gn<T yet the malcontent can be unaware of the 
exact nature oi his difficulty. The process of 
building a life, developlng-a personality, and 
evolving a personal philosophy Is Indeed a 
difficult one. .With so many pathways from 
whlch-to -choose inthis  complies* edage,lt-ls 
no small wonder that so many never reach the 
. broad highwayci a normal and fruitful life.
The. objection been raised that the col
lege should-sot be concerned with personal 
problems, that such rrg&tfdily belong to the 
home, the charch, and the public schools. 
Logically that 3. true. But unfortunately 
these agencies haye failed.
" " Parents very often are the CAUSE of mal
adjustments in their children rather *~han a 
sympathetic medium, forcorrectlon. Psycholo- gists rarely find a maladjusted child without 
discovering much the same sort of difficulty in 
the parents.
Public schools as an adjustment medium 
gsu* be very.largely iscounted. Not only must 
their efforts' be scattered, but personnel offi
cers, where .they are found, are generally al
most completely occupied b7 routine office de
tail 3- The church is helpful, but in the strict 
"seise It lacks the trained experts without 
 whom any personnel program must he ineffec
tive.
- It might be well to point out that the Tar
tan expects no miracles. It is obviously im
possible to pick one and only one occupation 
for a given individual, of to transform 'a" 
: - feeble minded person into an apt scholar. It 
I3 possible, though, to discover and point out 
' s field of activity to which 5' fbciTidtiai's czpalflities fit him. Guided into a compatible 
 field, the individual would then be able to 
choose that branch of endeavor which is pe
culiarly to hU Iflrfng^ Vocational  guidance, however, unould be 
- only one phase ot a personnel bureaus work.
Its principal objective must be to raise the 
' level of human happiness and effectiveness. It 
fe In this sense that the "term efficiency was 
used. Merely to increase the percentage of 
those who graduate Is not the objective ot a 
personnel advisory program. To increase the 
number of Individuals adequately adjusted to 
lifes problems is Its aim. Ia this educational 
sense; Carnegie's efficiency could be raised far 
above .what the program would cost in effort 
and In money.
Senate Supervision
T
HE CHAIRMAN of Elections, William S. 
Carlson, is to be commended cn his move 
to incorporate the college senate into the sys
tem of. conducting elections. Inasmuch as 
f class officers are not elected for oa entire 
class of the Institution but rather are elected 
separately by the classes or the various col
leges, the supervision of these elections within 
their own halls is a doty tfutt naturally falls 
upon the three college governing bodies.
This move wiE not onlyprovide duties for 
class officers that have in previous years been 
inactive but win also make for airer elections.
TfaeRi .icnlons Football Holiday
I
T become an almost established eustom of student, bodies of certain institu
tions of higher learning to celebrate a football 
victory by arbitrarily declaring a holiday from 
classes the Monday following the game end 
participating In demonstrations throughout the 
city that never fell to reflect discredit upoe 
their Institution.
A footb&n victory is s joyous event asd 
most certainly calls for celebrationperhaps 
the Saturday night of the game or even the 
following Sunday while spirits are still gay 
and excitement is running high. But thinking 
students who analyze the situation clearly and 
are not susceptible to mob psychology can 
readily see that by Monday enthusiasm has 
cooled considerably and that any demonstra
tion or celebration postponed tB then most 
obviously be forced and Insincere. It is very 
apparent tha students who resort to such 
measures to mate evident their loyalty^ to 
aim mater are merely seizing upon, a flimsy 
excuse to avoid' attending classes. Such an 
attlisde on the part of undergraduates Is sot 
only out of order but inasmuch as It Involves 
missing classes that the student himself Is 
; paying for. It becomes CTtremely ridiculous.
-The occasion cot yet arises at Carnegie 
for which such a celebration might take place, 
but if it should arise, it Is hoped that Carnegie 
men will conduct ' themselves a3 befits their
Welcome Alumni
pmiRK HOMECOMING celebration for all CarI ij^gte alumni will be held during the com
ing week-end.- The Tartan, acting for the stu
dent,, body welcomes the graduates-and-wishes 
wthfefii.azpleasant reunion.. . .- v/? ...
^the classes oi ISO 1914 1919 1924 1329 
. aa&$19$4; which-will'allhold separate reunion 
 aftrirtr^re-^pffera-.3peclal welcome. May they 
have fcime renewfngtjM acquaint'
ancee -*sd resulting their THsdsysjadwi^ A 7 
'' ' Special attention of 4he ntujfent body is dlerected to the request of the homecoming com
mittee that undergraduates participate In vaTious pcrts o^ (he program^actlng as hosts and 
guides to the alumni. The Kiltie Band, R. O. 
'vi. C j <%nd -members: of. vanoila jionorar? so
cieties iiave been asked' to''march In the 
alumni parade from the Inn to Administration 
'.n^n gVMay afffrnnonIn addition undergrad* who have time are requested to act as 
MSS!*, directing'the guests around the cam*
A.C.E. Horizon
I Coders EdJtMi c
Henry Wallace will be President of the United States In 1940, if not sooner! How does that sound? We would like to be the first to go on record with that prophecy. Henry Wallace wrote New Frontiers, just
ideas this year: America Mu:book that discussed religion, and. his New Frontiers. In those three volumes, he has gone on record. It is not possible for every _ JJejpijcrat.., JTpry^  BepnbHcan. Business, Shlppibg interests. Socialists^ read their own betleCs Into his wordsaa has been true of Roosevelts fireside chats."
Wallace is no chsrmer. Hs is the raggedfrankness of a Lincoln, the man who saved the married States from divorce. 1 am not sc sure that Wallace is not, .perhaps, Abraham
famous Gettysburg address:
'l an convinced that the New Deal so gallantly started by President Roosevelt is March of 1934 will eventually fail unless some time during the next four years at least five thousand communities'- are fundamentally permeated with the spirit of the new pioneers, not only in a sentimental, but also in a hardboiled, hard-thinkiog way.
1 wonder If American colleges can provide one thousand such communities?. Its a far cry from the coonskin coat to. the coons kin
But you should mark this man Wallace. His words are ImportantOne day, you may say: *I watched thosepolicies being formed. I
rate. you. will know.
: William Randolph Hearst:-OH L0N6 MAY It tf AV?- A-great many Americans, who ait down calmly to reasou-a few things ont for: themselves.
the Unlverglly of North Carolina Daily Tar
(toa
S peaceful village,-so? a pieceful shambles.
the.defense of ouc country!"' The.general Ji piicatxssis that A series cac s.Tcrt th iorroa. of.-war (as depicted; in-Hearst's own-horror pictures of the .World : War) by. beingarmed 1 to
'hows it conclasfrely.'-U.*Is -that armaments cannot .be a. protection againstwar;' Disarmastent .might -be  but.artnamentcan he ver-be n<l fa ih Jjpe tay that Ilea behind
Writers Row
AFTER THE BALL
She tip>tse4 stelsSy down the halt to 
the half-opened Scar of her mother's room. 
Whea she cajce to the door he stopped, 
waiting to hear the usual, sleepy "Es 
yoo, Jolie?. "What tfme is it? But all she 
heard was the soft rise and tan oi her 
mother's breathing and the-fsint tap oi the 
window shade as the breeae bmaped it 
against the window frame. Then she re
sumed her journey down the ftaJE wasting 
circumspectly aroGnd the areas where, ehe 
knew the floor woald screech, until she reached her own ruoa. ...Jest as soon as she had closed the door her, shestepped cot of her pumcs and wjggler. her aching toes. She felt her way across the -
hanger. In the inSy darkness she. dressed, and finaly let a silk sight gown sIFde over her head, shivering a little at its
She wound herself into a round, comfortable bail, feeling very grateful . that her mother had not wakened and eiled her into the big bedroom and questioned her about the dance. Somehow tne^oit, bubbly glow within her. the laughter, the happiness, always faded when she bad to
still wear that gold hand around' her teeth? Did'yor dress Took, sice? It should have; we paid enough for It-" And
bed and giggled softly as she imagined her mother's horrified Well, I declare!"
But he had been divine toniejttJ He had held her hand the whole way to the dance.
ballroom. How Fearfully he had glowered
Dear EditorGETTIN G S E T
She had watched Tm stflktng____...jemear the punch bowl as shewas'^nided around the floor. Purposely,she haif pot her arm 3 little closer around her partner's neck and smiled .archly Into ber partner's eye3 when she saw Koy look towards her. Julie turned over os her back and rehearsed the arch smQe at the reflection on the ceiling made by the corner street light. It bad been rather difficult to smile into the eyes of some of the boys; Georgie Moore's hand were always wet, and Jim Davis jerked and twisted so when he danced. Roy had claimed ber after the dances with such beautiful speeches. "You're a lovely little thing; you hardly came to his shoulder!* And "I didnt know Jim could dance so welL But you were his partoer1that makes a difference. She whispered one of them to herself while she stared at the patch of light above her. trying to remember ex-, actly how be had said it. You're a lovely little icing! Toure - a' lovely Itttle thing!
Once, when she was dancing with him. carefully following his steps . ^ . glide, pause, step, glide, glide, turn . . . he had sung in ber ear the words to the song that the orchestra was playing. The. song had bees something about letting, him call her sweetheart. He had broken off in the mfd' die of it with Will you let me?" and qhe had looked appealingly at him, then bad closed her eyes.dreamDy ... . just ihe way she had practiced in -front of her mirror. The reflection on the-feiling-became Roy's face; Jolie dreamily closed her eyes before Its intent, searching gaze. But when she slowly opened them again, the patch was dimmer, smaller. It shraiik away as she watched It idto a pin polnt of dull light, and finally dlappeared. She forgot Roy and the dance end Georgie Moores hands. Her feet were already far away, and her legs felt curiously buoyant . . . then .suddenly she was asleep.
VERA MAR KITS.
SENSATION I blow a mao who's Traveled wide, and thinks that life Has failed to hide from him One thrill.He spent a night in the Taj Mahal, and owns a real Kashmiri shawl and a Mandarin skirt.Hes watched the gold fish
And kept cool under a Banyan tree.Hes seen Mont PeleeVomit Srt, and watched a ircraThe spire of theMatterhorn.He's' seen theMona IJsas face, and traveled far
*'The Bali -women make Love best,He didnt tell All the rest. His wife Was waiting.I sometimes wonder-if.-on -Summer afternoon, he t
CLAIMS INJUSTICE
During the spring semester of 
last year, tis EOTtor or The Tartan 
wrote several 7er7 stirring and 
weH-meao* editorials oc the subject 
of faorganisation and activity. 
This action may or may not have 
beennecessary, bnt was taken to 
heart by the now present officers of
Whereupon, these same officers, 
acting upon the belief that thay 
building a miniature Utopia 
for students within the haUs of the 
Art School, proceded to appoint 
immittees ii7 the advancement of 
the ideals sec forth by Che former 
Tartaa editor.
The sole reason for the existence 
of these committees was tbe formu
lation of plans for class activity, 
such as picnics and dances. Th 
committees functioned perfectly
but the students happened not to be 
Idealists, and did not cooperate
with the arrangements made for
ihem. without their knowledge or 
loosest.
The first test of this Idealism, is 
the form of class picnics, has failed, 
result, the Sophomore class is 
;bt to the extent of $L.?9, while 
the Junior class followed with a de 
Ecit of $11.00. The Senior 1* was 
completely Indifferent, and the
whole affair was cancelled, with the 
exception of tes pounds of welners 
-hlch were eaten by win emryonic Utopians.
Now the course of action to make 
up the deSdt.oC the Jonior s.bss 
as3es3 ga/Vh member. This 
is again without the approval 
ef the students themselves, and is 
rightfully considered unjust far the 
was incurred through tbe ac
tivities of over-ambitious Individ
uals. and not by the class as a
People should ftint twice before 
arranging the affairs of others.
MEMBER OF THE JUNIOR 
CLASS.
THE OTHER SIDE 
To the writer of the above letter. 
Considering the way things 
ventnally worked out, your letter 
is Justified to a certain extenL But 
two sides to every ques
tion and I should like to present
When we sanctioned these pie
ties, it was with the understanding 
that the only expense that would 
be entailed would be food, which 
expense we considered small 
enough to be easily covered. Later 
on we heard that the classes intended to hire orchetras, and In is, already did. We then clear to them that they
expend hires they Intended to ]
I left 1 advised the chairmen of th various picries to cancel their orchestras and. If necessary, call the whole affair off if-they-saw that their ticket sale was not large enough to cover their expenses. In other words, we were UUng to admit failure rather than in the risk of having the classes incur any iJebts. That advice was followed In the-case of the Junior class. Because of that and because, at the outset, spirit was running high and was then permitted to drop, never to be regaincannot agree with you that the committee functioned perfectly. 
In tbe case of the Senior picnic,
i show them to be.
guments for American preparedness in terms of the war horror pictures published dailv in tbe New Tork American. expressed.a "wi9b to bring to bis kind attention the fact that nine-tenth3 ofthe aforesaid horror pictures represent! European nKuons~w no* were prfepared.like all hell."
we can think of for tbe moment. The Boston University News bas bit. upon a method rubber hose,":to make undergraduates speak when spoken- A News reporter trotted about the campus asking this.-question of.unsuspectlng\inde^ graduates:
.'Do you bellev< should emphasiz< noznlc and governmental, issues 
Everything the interviewed .undergraduate* aid was used against them. For instanc?- Rita Mahoney went down onreqord: -."No Students don't know anything about such probisiaa &tm - Lherctoinfe cau t o&vuss 'men* intettr gently. Of course. Miss Mahoney: but they can.leam. Tbey shouldOliver . L. Thompson, a senior In the school of.law. strikes nearer to the truth: In these times'.of trying, stirring governmental changesthe . unlversltfea,: to fulfill properly their mis-' mloa^tnthe community, should certainly carry oa-dlscUMApia.IavpurTent poUtlca.T
 social ioQcI financial obthe affair failed tion but at least ligation, was incurred.
Before you condemn us for mismanagement, you must first underiilTitfVS 'VTefe'aH-d' ' exactly in whose hands the management of the various picnics lay. Our prime motive was to break down the barriers that eslsted'Se^ tween the different departmentsof the school andthe
would be attained. _______class organization had never bes fore been attempted we thought the beet course to porsue would be to by. means of social fcscticns, the members of the classes better acquainted with each other so that they could more easily lay the foundation' fororganization greater activity.
Yon may consider the entire venture a failure. I do not thinkit. was entirely that. In the___of the Sophomors-class and the
Those classes are way to good class organization and they maintain their spirit
be changed for the better In a few
did fail. Perhaps it _to include those classes. After two or three years of inactivity as a class-they-migbt have been beyond the pout where they could sincereinto tbe spirit of the *Mr.g
something 'desirable and the only way to ascertain If it would fall or. succeed.-Vas. to try it And I dm of the opintoh that the success
so. on the whole, make the ture worthwhile.
Before I finish, may I take the liberty to correct some of Che figures yon qooted In your letter. Too failed to take Into account the fact that, eaehv.da. 1* always given
The Skibo Hobo
up for the week-end, wiih Nancy Jones. Sigma Xu Clements a Jetty Taylor. Vinson and Motter. Wimps Gfbson-Philpott. Jane Poller biding time with a Kappa Sig TThtil Our Sborey gets here for Homecoming. The other usual combinations.
Best number  Can't Dance, Got Ants la My Pants. Kept them scratching for the rest of the evening.UnnecessaryEight or tea sophomore stags. -
scared most of us away. That <
FIELD HOUSE FOOLISfDsESS . . . The other day. in all seriousness, Joe M Dun's dad begged Baron Munhall not 10 gfre bis boy any more A A. equipment. The increase in sweat shirts, Bocks, jerseys, etc jumped the family ]aundry*bill considerably since the season began. And all along we thought Ferguson was the villain.
BURNT BURNT . . how often his name %Dame game, C3me through with the wires must have been burning up."
HEEL. . . . The Wfghtman Street Beta Club has its own Walter Hampden in the person oi "'Happy Garmise. Happy floored them all the other night by appearing for dinner as Handsome
use him to hatmt the Tau Dell house this coming rushing s
TCH - TCH . . - Outside the Grill, Les Sbomo waited anxiously for his Laurel; Hall prexy. A half an hour flew by. When she finally appeared,, he nonchalantly piped-up "Fancy meeting you here. A coincidence.
QUERIES . . . Plebe; Why didn't the ancient Egyptian kings wear beards?"Dragon: Because they all were Pharaohs.(Ed. NoteAuthentic records indicate that beards were worn. The ptebe should have known better.)
CLASS ROOM HUMOR Grlffiss how much gold is in a watch . is a piece of string questions.
LITTLE GAL WHAT XOW? ... . Smiles Sherman has us in the air. After last weeks report, we find that she has been seen walking across the campus affectionately clinging to the arm of . the mentioned faculty member. Stand by for further developWELLSBURG ? ? ? ? Mrs. Dubius big activities boy Freddie broke into print in the Press. It seems the aforesaid Mr. Dubin had quite an affair with Miss Mary McGarvey of Clarksburg, W.Va. Local'ne? Miss McGarve] Miss McGarvey?) 
heard and lo and behold Mr. Dubin and engaged. Freddie objected (how about ad the Press ran the caption, Hockey Cap-1 Victim of Jokers. Now whoda done that?
flve dollars to work with by the Arts Senate. The Sophomore class thus had no deficit, and the Junilor class deficit^
REGULATIONS ARE NONSENSE
some nonsense to the effect that
good of the Freshmen. In my opinion it is bad enough to expect the new members of Carnegies student body (o pay any heed to
these infantile pratices without expecting them also to like iL The Freshman has an equal right rith_jipp_erclassmen to _enjtvr_all
the variousthe privileges' . . leges without interference form of regulations. He pays the same tuition .and Incurs the same responsibilities.It will probably be a long time before college students will realize that such practices are unworthy ot 
the intelligence which they 'should possess. Until such a time^howclassmen t hypocrite" tlons of being poor s
 - upg<
MART L KALTEN7BAUGH '37.
On Second f 
Thought Ij
. Dudley-D. Pendleton t
} Pangs .of hunger^ maddening 
them to such an extenE that they 
devoured their belts am gnave^ 
their shoes, 1,200 miners in tia 
little Hungarian town of Pecs coi 
 tinned their .^Gbasdi -tactics w protest of the $2.00 a week cm which they were expected to keen themselves and tbeir familiei alive." These were the wori& whlcK last week told the world oi eoridi. Lions so unbearable that men were willing to lay down their lirea rather than submit to-them.
. iCO Hours Below Ground'
For more than lflo/.hours these miners remained below-gwund &, the narrow tunnels of the stipe, refusing to come .to .the sariace uatli -their demands were met and threatening all the time to commit suicide by wrecking. / the air ani
mine and the miners .refused badge, leaving affairs. In ? an it solvable stalemate'.  of Khic Charles Peyer,'a Social, .fiemocrat Deputy, said, I have'seen maoj bitter strikes, but I cave nerer witnessed anything approaching the savage determination, called font
they meant business, mise was reached.iivins back to 
the miners their winter.and-Christmas bonnses and increasing tijeir wages to a meagre 53,50 a week They came blinking to the light, their clothes in tatters, many of ihem bare footed,, tbeir: faces gaunt and whiskery, to devour lood auj gulp water offered . by relatives waiting above. Some we*e:bronght out on stretchers and  more than .110 were rushed to hip!tals:.in:a serious condition.
Fault Lies With.Governments .
But why this stirfke in Hungaryand why these unusualtactics? Fingers point atthe Dahube -Navigation Company, owners' of the mine; "bnt;*' say' officials,' already we ba%'e 15,000 carloads 'of unsold coal ou our sidings. What-can we do but cut hours and wagea?' . The fault is . not, with the' company alone.. The real culprit,.says Ef. StrakhoTsky, -professorot Modem European History, at Georgetown, is the Hungarian-government and Its suicidal policy.-Fourteen years ago when Ihe Treaty of Trianon .was-signed, the
Yugoslavia, and.. Austria were legalized . Says .* .Professor Strakhovsky, The^people .o'f.these, territories had declared 'the'mselrgs free from ' Hungarian rule 'a collapse of the Empire',.. . yet: the Hungarians refused to  th reality .of these changes ani . . .. declared to th.5 credulo world that they had' ben. robbd of .ancient . Hungarian.. territori. For fourteen years ,the Hungartb
jealousy and' filled, wit.htrd. lis 1 one Idea' being * revision of' ibf :j treaty of Trianon. "
English-. Capital Sought.
on spent millions foe propaganda. purposes? interesting-Lord^Roihermere (TheHearst of England) and: his numerous newspaper?*'; _-Thk method failed and attempts 1 made to Interest"" English;'capital - "Today, says Profess&r StrakhoT; sky Hungary is practically sold 0 to Great Britain.Offers were made' to -Grat < Britain, to tempt; he? capital, t exclusion of-that of' other ''ns and tariff barriers were* created : to build up .artificially trade that ;
All Blamed on-Trlanoo Whatever ills befell the. Hungarian, government in.the" difficult ; years after'the war -. Jbas been \ blamed on the Treaty'oI/Mann;; . . . to. such ,&n. ,etent" thit. (he wbols nation is ^thoroughly VcoV. Vince that reViaionTs'its 'only s&T ; ration. '.Why did. not these. Eiiliirs'1 volt? There are at brsenf Hangar? .about 250,000. armed met
thing  aprotestof which the; whole worId; has' heard -where-a ' strike would-have been-^uencbd before it-bean_

---------------------------------------------------

rTHE CARNEGIE TARTAN; TUESDAY, OCTOBER 23. 193
Campaign for Student Personnel Adviser 
Arouses Diverse Opinions on Campus
Alumni Convene 
At Brown House
R.O.T.C., Band, Glee Club 
To Join In Ceremonies
(Continued From Page One) I 
student honorary organizations, will I parade across the campus to the Adadded to the design in be floor ol the main corridor of the building. This design, the center of which is a large plate inscribed with the numerals of the first clasB to be graduated, 93, contains a plate bearing class numerUls for every group gradi r'-,e college.The plate for the Class of 1934 bias been purchased by the memthe Class this year. Mr. William Sprengle *09, Chairman oC ?the Reunions, will make a short ad* and call the roll of the gradTartan Editorial Stressing Need for Establishment 
Of a Psychological Vocational Bureau Is 
Misinterpreted in Some Instances
1909,
,____ -III sing; and theWomens Glee club -will present a lumber after .the presentation.ell a
shear.- Alter tMs the combined glee clubs 
[will sing the Alma Mater. Mem;rs of all honorary societies have sen invited to attend this event. The Faculty Hour will succeed je ceremony.. At thla time all I members of the , raculties of the 'three colleges will meet with the aluinnl at specified rooms in the college buildings. Time ' allowed for a tour of the at 3 P. M. Friday. Sin there have been many impro meats not only in the campus self, but &I50 in the classroo 
and laboratories.Following a custom established several years ago. Dean M "Watson Green -will entertain alumnae and wives of alumni a tea from four to sis .in the Women's Club room of the Gymnasium Building. Dean Green wjll have as her aides the representatives of the various classes and members of Mortar Board, Woznens Senior honorary.The dinner hour has been served for special dinner meetings of reunion groups.Alumni Invited to Rally At seven-fifteen . Friday evenin; the alumni are Invited to parlici pate in the Purdue Pep Rally to be conducted by the students In the Bowl. From the Pep Rally the alumni will proceed to the Little Theater in the College of iFine Arts where a special performance of Love for Love" will "be given as part of the Homecoming program. Tickets, two to an alumnus, may be secured at the Alumni Office by sending a stamped, addressed envelope.An Informal reception will be held In,thQ Exhibition Hall during the second Intermission of the play  which Mr. Walter Blenko, president of the Alumni .. Federation, will gTeet the guests. .Registration will continue hi the Brown House on Saturday morning. The Purdue gi lie at the Stadium at 2
ADVISER HAS AN IMPORTANT PLACE ON CAMPUS
Dear Editor,
I read., with interest your edi
torial last week entitled Those 
Who "Fall by the Wayside; and 
while I do not agree with your as
sertion that "business-like ef
ficiency must come more strongly 
into college administration." I do 
feel that there is a definite need for 
a student personnel adviser.
A college in its very nature can
not he run with business-like ef
ficiency if it Is to progress, cannot 
really maintain high standards If 
it permits all who enter to gradu
ate. That is, of course, an opinion, 
and not of primary importance In 
the present instance.The fact remains that, whether he is to promote efficiency or not, a student'personnel adviser has an important place on a college campus. High school vocational counsellors are notably ineffective; unavoidably so, perhaps, because schools are overcrowded. Such counsellors are often teachers well, and have little time to devote to student guidance. " for the college advisers to remedy in part this failure of the high
Few" people, when they enter school, have definite Ideas as what they plan to do after leaving.
Deer Editor,There is no menial phenomenon more common taah that of simplification. Does a malpractice exist? Then someonepostulates a 6lngle cause and proposes a single emgdy. The Tartan's wholly laudable effort to propose a major change in school policy by* the tabllshment of a student personnel department seems the writer to manifestation of this human 
frailty.
The objective or the proposed official is to be, it seems, the inrease of what might be termed the
very small percentagi
 be
the methods of applied psychology, of centralized control of curricula, of scientific management generally, to the students individual prob lems. Conceding the possibility of surmounting administrative difficulties of expense and Internal friction, let us consider the fundamentals of this proposal.
Initially, one must remember that efficiencyto press a little further with the thermodynamic metaphormay be raised by two possible methods: the increase of output and the decrease of input. Surely every student who thinks candidly will admif that many of | those enrolled in whatever depart-, ment of the school are foredoomed | to failure, largely because of a gen-1
.................................E,benefited both themselves and the institution by :hoosing some more congenial
American Artist 
Wins International
South of Scranton Painting 
Awarded firstPrize
Peter.Blume, a^young American artist,' Russian . born, makihg ' hiB Initial showing in a Carnegie International, won First Prize of $1,500 In the 1934 CarnegieInstlInternatlonal Exhibition of Paintings, which opened at Pittsburgh on Thursday, October 18. The prize-winning painting is entitled, South of Scranton." Mr. Blume is the youngest artist to receive first place in the International.It is he second time Since 1923' that an American has won first prize. Of the total of eight awards, two went to American artists, two to German, two to French, one to a Spaniard, and oi
Lecture on Art Exhibit 
Will Be Given Monday
October' 29, In the Carnegie Music Hall. The lecture will begin promptly at 8:1$. It is open to the public.. This will be the second of the series of four lectures to be given on the current Carnegie International Exhibition of ' Paintings.
In the flret lecture, - last night.
cussed *Tbe Human Side of the Picture Game.Monday evening, November 5. Annot, German scientist and art instructor, now in New York, will lecture on The Carnegie International Through European Eyes."
i the International.'
And then, there is the one about the Wilson man who goj blood poisoning when he sat down
___lack of interest in the \ful completion of their course.1 group would havi
The Second Prize of $1,000 wai
Switzerland. Tbe painting is titled, Pastoral."Third Prize of $500 went to Sidney Laufmau, an American landscape painter who lives in New. York City, for his painting, Spring Landscape.Honorable Mentions were awarded to Edouard Vuillard, the distinguished French artist, for his painting "The Baby, to Salvador Dali, a Spaniard, for Enigmatic Elements in Landscape," to Alexandre Deineka, a Russian, for his painting entitled, Girl on Balcony, and to Franz Lenk, a German, for his "Bavarian Landin life, but visers will well as t
t least experienced ad.end to minimize this ley can. They cannot,
_____ . _ it is being triedof the large Eastern colleges. Working by means of psychologic)testing and personal terviews has. proved to be quite successful;,in helping students settli their uncertainties and in placing them in the courses for which tl are best adapted.It would be worthwhile to c sidcr seriously the adoption,
least for system here.
i trial period, of such
EMILY KRAMER 36.
for !polie.not afterwards.
personal consideratici and educational psychlatr' " 
upon the specialist,
imendatlon of this v, least the chance for____under favorable economicconditions, in that field of work for which his capabilities and desires suited him, colleges.would not be forced to conduct periodic purges
Garden Club of Allegheny County for the best painting of flowers or a garden, was awarded to the noted French artist, Andre Derain, for his painting, entitled Roses. Three artists who died recently are represented for the Iasi time in a Carnegie International.
After football is. over the field Dp clear.Straighten. my nose and shoulder And help me to And my
in g s'-o n
ALPHA SIGMA PHI 1
Plane tor the Alumni Homecom-1 
lng Include & smoker on Friday, 
evening end a dance on  Saturday 
evening.
ALPHA TAU OMEGA 
A newly created Mothers* club 
lunched at the College club yester
day as the guests of Mrs. R. V. 
Nutt&l for purpose of organization.
A JtamAfioml.ng dance.Is..ached-, 
uled for Friday;'Saturday and Sun
day. The house'will be open all other fraternities.
BETA SIGMA RHO 
A Halloween dance which will also serve as a Homecoming dance will be held Saturday evening.
listed for this Friday evening.
The Florida Times mentions the possibility of the nation feeling a bit more optimistic If the girls would get their fingernails 01 '
KAPPA DELTA RHO
Homecoming dance which will be open, to other houses will take place this Saturday evening., Dean Green i
uled for this Saturday evening. It will be the flret orchestra dance of the year.
house. Mr, Llttlehales was editorin-chief of the Wash-Jeff Red and Black last year as well as being a three letter man.
PHI MU ^LPHA Alpha Omega chapter of Phi Mu Alpha, National Musical Honorary Fraternity, begins its fall rushln'g season with a musical program and smoker, to be held at 10 o'clock 01 Thursday evening In Jim Brayi Tap Room. 6035 Bunker HIU road.
The Dally Oklahoma informs that the Oklahoma yearbook has selected. Clark Gable to .choose tho campus beauties for their 1935 edition.
PI KAPPA ALPHA
The PI K.As will celebrate Alumni Homecoming-with a smoker and a dance this Saturday. Jerry Dickerts orchestra is playing. Duane Purvis, Purdue halfback. wlU.be a guest over t
TAU DELTA PHI
A housewarming for - tbe new home was held October 13. Seven* ty-flve couples attended.The Tau Delta now lay claim to being the nearert house to tbe campus by about seven feet 
. Visiting rratero rrom Minnesota and the publisher apd manager oC the Hearst Albany Tlmes-Unlon, who came In for the Pitt-Minneo^ ta game, were entertained last
It Is the custom of the freshman class at M. I. T. to give the president of the sophomore cIsbb t
ADVANCED ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 
^ETHERS-.ARE DERIVED FROM^-J 
ALCOHOLS IK) WHICH THE H OF. 
THE ROM 15. REPLACED BY ^J\v ,H P Gem aN A33 m
They a> Roger Fry. English z
feel that t
Tickets for the game may be. seed in the Alumni Office when other reservations are' sent. ;The prices are $2.20 and $1.10 with a 25c fee if the tickets aTe to be sent, 
registered.
these individuals who college education Is essentially a nuisance sandwiched between week-ends.
The problem is still further complicated by duplication of function Certainly not even a special
ist is better fitted f ual advice onstructor who --------present system of faculty advisers, at least In the department to which i>; -writer belongs, operates well efficiently: One feels that Ihis lot be a unique experience^ de
termined students
and writer; John Kane, the Pitts-1 burgh laborer and house painter | who came to be considered the greatest primitive" since Rousseau; and Adolphe Borle, distinguished American painter.The Exhibition will continue in Pittsburgh through December 9. Immediately thereafter, tbe European' section will be shown in Baltimore at the Baltimore Museum *.rt from January 1 to February 1935, and in San Francisco at the San Francisco Museum of Art from March 14 to April 25. 1935.
ADVANCED PIPE CHEMISTRY
( FINE TOBACCOS+SecEETl 
' BLENDING PROCESS, 
sMINUS ALL "BlTE"=.,[PRINCE ALBERT/
AFTER EVERY CLASS 
IT RINGS THE BELL!
WITH ITSd/ffereatBavor, its mildncssandrichjragrantaroma, 
Prince Albert has often been dcscribcd as "(he National Joy 
Smoke.'* Youll enjoy this companionable blend of top-quality 
tobaccos. All "bite" is removed by a special process in line with 
theprinciplethat"if youctobaccos right,yourpipcwontbicc."
DAYSO EPIOAR
 THE NATIONAL JOY SMOKEi
____ ___ _ dinner and dance inthe ballroom of the (Hotel Sehenley from seven until two. The music will be furnished by Squawk Taylor's orchestra, begin at seven oc be served after 7:30. Reservations will be made for tables of ten and The charge for the dinner
depart____ ___probably have malad-lustment in their scholastic envir onment straightened by consultation with their faculty/ Again, ir the matter of financial and social 1 difficulties, It is likely that tbe existing methods are wholly satisA panacea exists for no academic illit la useless to propose one. The student personnel . bureau would unquestionably aid in certain situations, but it Is neither .so de-....... -----  _ 1 sirable nor so practicable as itand the dance is $2.50; *or the a^an appears. A wiser subdance, $2.00. Alumni are cordially | plan would, in the opinionIter, be the establishment searching and betterdirected entrance requirements, perhaps in the line of vocational psy-Style of American Artists 
Dominates International
Works of Carnegie Professors Are Outstanding 
At Institute Exhibition; Prize Winners are 
Mostly Well Assorted and Well Chosen
Frankly, this is not a criticism, but rather an impression and reaction to the International Art Exhibit, for it is impossible, in this brief review to give a comprehensive idea of the gTeat variety of work.There are many convincing 
1, and many whichpltel baffling, come and
New movements but academism is its ground quite firmly this - -  " are sparse.awakening
. American a\-t, forrugged and rural, typically American subjects are evident. People scenrwl to'husteu tteowgh the-German room, for German art has turned to sinister, bitter aymbolP. & D. Faculty Exhibit As 1 walked through the gallery, my eyes swiftly picked1 out the paintings of the P.* & D. faculty members. . It was like hearing ones native tongue in the Tower ot Babel. At the End of Frazier Street* by Prof. Alexander J. Kosrigorous sincerity and simplicity which suggests restrained' power."The Concerto, by Russell T. Hyde, Is one-of his best paintings.
chlatry; and, above all, the formation of a mechanisr  pression of studei
for the ex____opinion on academic matters; pedagogy, curricula, 
faculty personnel, etc.That the Tartan has finally be- ' i status is iplication oficlous of its status is 
the most significant li last weeks editorial;
of the artist.- ' But ts' ft'wise.l wonder, to let the manner become the paramount factor? I overheardseveral remarks, such as, Isnt that blue sky beautiful?" Dont you Just love that yellow 
castle?"A really great piece of art is not merely great in parts. We do no*- enjoy a book because it has : clever phrase on page 395v nor-; svmphony because it has one love l cadenza. A painting should r< quire no exnlanation. Either you like it;or you dont for art belongs purely to the fourth dimensional realm of the spirit. Mr. Blumes surrealism, however, puts one leg the firth dimension, and forces into mental handsprings and contortions. He combines unrelated symbolic elements, making ,ural rather than a painting. The colors are luscious, yet glossy, nd realistic though the forms may be, there is an eerie unreality about the whole thing.Other Winners Criticized .he second prize, Pastoral," by Karl Hofer, and the Spring Landscape,".. by. Laufman,. .which... won third prize, are fairly successful in what they attempt to do, but the general feeling is that they.
Your editorial in last weeks Tarconsidera,m inclined t extend your 
generous sympathy for the sixty
"Wilfred Readio's landscape shows a definite control pearance of .nature, that results in special design and underlying structure. It is realism, in a way,V for the objects are recognizable, \yet they are primarily forms which, in turn;-are .sacrificed design and pattern.Prize Winner Gets Credit guess' that...everything"that*
paintings has already been said.' "Whatever our emotional reactions to: Peter Blume s South of Scranton '..may.be: we arexpompelled to pay., homage to-- the-crofUmanahip
per cent that fail i
""/hr^orabis .ceivcd by Vuillard, the distinguished French artist, for his painting The Baby, Dali, a Spaniard (or ."Enisniatlc E mehts in Landscape,. Deineka Russian,: for ills painting entitled.
hibited is just aSume-.avcrchsvlsti---------- ,,just innocent copiers, who stumble blindly, after the masters, as they make their experiments and their mistakes ; and  some who do not penetrate to the real purpose of a
__ impressive percentage oE the forty per cent who receive the snediction of the school.The Institute . draws one too quickly and powerfully around a sharp-edged, scientific, mould; and, more serious damage is done, body is anemic for want of annealing. The terrific strain and pressure of the process actively bludgeons the frailer, more delicate shades of ones personality mta complete or partial inseusibillty. That one must succumb to the stunting of ones appreciation of the subtler, more volatile detail of life and beauty, as a price of techlcV capabilityr w*nn * -a*well as undesirable.Your intimation that atrist be employed as  which to smooth the cor mould is logical. Undoubtedly the Administration would welcome any sincere effort on the .part of the students .to co-operate with them in solving the painful maladjustments in which the students so often find 
themselves.Sincerely,NEAL L. VINSON 35.
CHARLES STEPHENS/ JR. *35 -P'o<
lli tijs Tw f.tllcnud (he riuni u<.ou. in* j^sig3tions which con6nn_ Camels 'energizing 
effect. But 1 already knew from my own pecsonal experience that Camels Utt up my energy 
and enable me to tackle the next assignment with 
- renewed vigor. It has beco definitely established, 
too, that Camels are a milder dgaiette.
.Throw off that tired feeling this quick and enjoyable way I 
Pull out a Camellightup enjoy its rich, pleasing taste. 
Before many minutes have passed you feel a harmless and de
lightful renewal of your energy. Join those who are finding a 
new pleasure , in smoking as they "gee a lift with a Camel! 
Smoke'steadily? Of course! Camels are made from finer, MORE 
EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS, and do not get on tbe nerves!
TUNE INI CAMEL CARAVAN with Glen Grays Casa Loma Orchestra, Walter OKeefe, Annette Hans haw, and other 
 Headliners  over1 WABC-Columbia Network. 
TUESDAY . . 10 p.m. E.S/T. I THURSDAY . . 9p.m.E.S.T. 
9 p.m. C.S.T.8 p.m. M.S.T. 8 p.m. C.S.T.9:30 p.m. M.S.T. 
? 7pjn.P.S.T. I 8:30 p.m. P.S.T.
i psychlFraternities-at DePauw Unlvei 
si ty are starting a new pledging system whereby every freshman
of the friends 
standing beside an , open coffin. Yes  said the other "he was good, to' the .' last drop.-'. ..
GIRL EXPLORER. Mrs. William 
LaVarrc says: Any time I'm tired 
I just stop and smoke a CameL It wakes up my energy in no time. And heres an 'important point.
. Smoking Camels steadily, I find} 4ees not.actone-neEK.,.....;....
HOCKEY PLAYER. Bill Cook,Captain of -the famous York 
Rangers, says: The way I guard my 
nerves and yet smoke all [ want is 
to smoke only Camels. They have a 
* taste that sure hits' the spot. 1 smoke 
a lot and I find that Camels never 
get on my nerves or tire my taste,*
' TOBACCO MEN 
v ALL KNOW:
rt Camels aremad.e from-1 
finer,-More Expensive 
"l.Tobo<cosXufkish o"hd 
"ci mha'hiatvy' 
 other popular brand,
CAMEL'S COSTHER TOBACCOS
NEVER GET ON YOUR NERVES!

---------------------------------------------------

THE .CaltWEClfe tAftTAN? WIE3P. OCTOBER
THE
CARNEGIE
PLAID
P9 bf Sxkt E
1rs fU Efiatfc! Soud 'ef t
V.H. E. ateOUCiCQ
G Kl VESSELS  E. ISTS.'LS Z. H. WETTE
Idle Thoughts, 
of a n 
Idle Night 
Student
Ballots Cast 
In Clege Ofj
J You're telliEg i
Better Elections
 Tse officers "ho presided are: the recent elections are to be cosisended or'the efficiency with wch these affairs were conducted. The cs-e ai oSlcizl slots made orderly balloag possible, and
, dents are ea^erir aiieading classmit it, bet the fact j-feasaias that rreraJ cf the xezls which were filled the first to or three nights sees2 to be conspicuously prosiEest with the To Let signs, u, the fqreer tenants bars J slid ozz or should I say dropped f ozt.
i has preceded cosi-1 
the eleccinthis "year represent j
made is *kj the el-sctioas camel too closely on e heels o regs-j tratkm. A loager intervening pe-1
s treated te j adiriti 
 fond ef ;
J^ensel, Grimm, Lahr And 
ISoi^ot Are Elected By 
Engineering School
The CoCege of EssiETi2g held 
is QTirai election smoker la the 
| Union on Satarday evening. CcissaaS. receiTed th eatertaiaxcest 
with enthusiasm ard evinced ccz> sideraie Interest ia the business of the meeting.Srzt speaker of ihe evenir g. Professor W. X. Jones, Dir&cior of the Xigit College of Engineering, addressed the assemblage oc the | desirability of including shop work cnm'calTnzL He expressed shops as Carnegie ; finest ard most
try and recommesded their fuller students.  Professor ! lghiri. Asociaie Director of Night.Courses, -as next introduced 1
zddfiion to giving the new studeats sufficient tise to become orited. However. thi3 poat can wel1 beoverlooked 12 view of the great] ?Hi|iwt.*gjgTrt3 fci eiection rou 
that hare been asade.
It is hoped tha these enzdiz: win be permanent. If so.
dcse of medic
That 07 the time this dope has|; been read 2II tbe smoke screens ( ' rhich hare been appearing <
Toi be ssiEdeatiy 
the changes
these affairs reTTed by the responsible for
teadaaces ai the election aird rafa! the choice of oScers more truly! represeaiatjve of each group tfcani it'has sometimes been ia the past] 
Tbe strident body should c erezj effort to show their appreeia-1 Hen rf the "work being carried oa
gl-tn^ the Council every assistance
itsations made somewhat tf coarse yoa realize I am reet| ring to the Tarions elections which  hZTe been in the night life for the past -chile back. It say tarn oat! that afcer the politicai arena >s : been cleared ef ihe debris t-e gftati.ire oae real candidates to reckon TVV a
r.g is the parking habit of our traveling students. Some of | don't seem to realize that *plil ting the fine means that vrc are de another student the privi
>05 president of the Ttfghc :
Coaaol daring the past j Mr. Lois concluded by troda-ciag Mr. C. A. Blochiager. thi
Penn State Giren 
Drill Equipment
Pittsburgh Company Grants 
, Loaa of Sel JDerriii
The ythmO-gT jd gjj
ofl drill tE be heard al the Fess^lrania Stale oSege booo. Prepartioa for the eosstrsctkia at i
Faculty MemBers Asked 
To,Attend Isdr Election
ofl. derri.cS are aider fos direse"" io stari, it froajthe students. 'drilfing op<iobs in sa od field, j
Dae to an orersfght, th cames of th gnss.- isrited to th ^ectlon. EeoIcct of th Collega ot lEdks-j tries irere osaittd in th annonacnect of Uie ' fancton Thev^ include 3ir. W. . Dsy, Mr. SL J. Raobeszstra*. Mx. SectJ) Shaffer ted llr Chares "W. Pitkin.' : Tiese icea are all members pi th Fac-, t-Jty et th-' Collage vi ladfestries.-, Trilh only i aad are streoely ,popalar :
Valley.The o rig sin he pled ioDege ars st of the caaipas.acre haTiag been desigihe trastees for the debbwd be eia ployed as
ahoot caicd by
dents ia petroleaa and natcral ga engineeriEg and for zsesrch h; the gradc2te stnden^s.Tee
I Printers Work 
On Magazine
Department to Produce 
Graphic Arts Journal
Plaid Corrects Error 
In Article on Aicardsl
ir=t issue at Graphic Arts Ed;c2tion,* formerly Printing Educa, jan. There TriD oe oar Issues I daring the year -sijh twenty-foor : copy, containing articles and news fceais of iniere?t 1 teachers and sic dea is of print|icg.
Carnegie makes an iaportaat oatrihaiioc to edn<2ticaai Selds prodciag this important pblficdent Coanol to iliss S!ary TTa: Green and 3r. A. W. Tarbel. ; Deans of Wonsen and 3^ea reapectirely, there seems to hare been ] irrer made in the iaionnatoc I giren.
arid aad oaly pblica Lion of its kind I English aagc&ge.
iated by sttid
tate of Grapiic Arts. The i
Nu Sigma Alpha . 
To Hold Dance
FraternityFonction To 
B Held in Homewood1 -
: Oa -this Satnr.dayerening . NaSigiaaAlpha fraternity will hold' 
a harrefft dance at the Ancient Or
der of Hibernians* naB, 525 North! 
Homewood Arenoe, H0me700d_. 
This wEH be' tie Occasion of the Srs* fall gathering of the members and friends and is looked forward to with much aaticipatioa.Tbe spirit erf the occasion will be carried oat in real country stjle we are told by the committee and those who ere fortunate to attend will fcsve the surprise of their Ures. Dancing is to be the in attraction of the erening and arTasgeFrofessor and Mrs. Robert B. Leighon and Profesor HKiri> Patrick will be guests acd chapAn invitation is extended to all the night students to attead the dunce. Tbe assesment is placed at dollar per couple and prizes
Annual Night 
Arts Election 
Held Recently
Council Representatives 
Elected by Artists 
Fri3ay; Oct. 12
The Night College of Pine Arts
terms. In his flrtt .term he was elected treasurer of the Arts School and in his seaoad term vice-president of Arts and
Contributor Suggests 
Ntxd for FriendlineJ^
The Night School has,nothin-, 
compare *th the EreftSman. fLR
improtehle that there, could be aurB such grouplag. first year siadeutsi would., judoahtedly . be benefited!by SO" mm*'**
SI^Bg<' for there nothing the new student Eeel than  common ground forfriendship.'^
There is <Night School could ^copy from the Day School, it ....... person Eoostg
his; classmates, 
regulation tha( Uil * _err eaif
quires that
speak with every other person be!
are to be offered.
Floodlights Planned 
For Campus Dark Spotnegie Handbook. He also serTed as a member of last -rear's Thistle! Staff. j
The oSices of Secretary and; T ! Treasurer are being filled by Mr.
t year, several 
nplained of the 
ilght in acd  hoy-Lali s=d r. 2-.
The new regalatloc3
the first made as we find that Dr. Roscoe M. Ihrig was hccored by the council in 1925 and Pro-i
f essor Bobert 3. Leigh oa was similarly honored in 1932. Both'of these awards were given in appreciation of untiring efforts to aid the night students and to
and' gire anotheRegistration Increase lehance. so what
till soon be ready for publication | indicate that the total Till be coasJderabiy peater than the 13 per I s^nt increase erer last year's I figriiH*t reported In a previous is-1 of the Plaid.
Increased employment due to! Gorersiaeatal projects Is the district, and wider employment in the
tries hare enabled many students to j resume their studies where lack of >ini, reduced income and other economic reasons forced' them to withdraw. The small *!** ofj ;>.% .i.:. vv.ra is comparedo 'vr.rS*.,*- c-s-i'-ii ol 1929 and L 7fdeneeof ho^fr,imdent body ja& fi coQ&pSe of
I Herbert Stone 
N. S. C. Aide
Social Chairmanship Is 
Awarded to Stndent
Council were used. Tbe balloting resulted in the election of Mr. Tenis President. Mr. A. C. Grimm, President, Mr. Husseil Lahr, Secretary, and Mr. "Walter Noigot, i Treasnrer. Mr. Veneel brought the_______meeting to a dose in aspeech of acceptance In which he promised faithful service and foil co-operation with his ieEow Council members.Tbe meeting was brought to a very pleasant conclusion by ihe Rerring of a lunch. This Is tbe feature always pleasurably antici-1 , paled by. those v^ho attend these I
a in meeting their problems
~ i of Professors Gustafson. Sterling, and Messrs. Martin and Pitkin. Professor Gnstafson has been the associate editor since 1927. His s is now being taken over by Harry Hielinaa of New YorS City, who was for many years the editor of the Inland Printer and Typothetae Bulletin, which is, the leading printing trade journal
students hai 
lack of sufficient
around the center of the campus.  d_t respectively. Th
malter was finally brought to i both beer actively ecgagUteution of the Superintendent
inaJ plan for the center of the camI pus called for a row of lighting j 
standards extending from the Colwever, due a: lack of funds, but  the near future, a flood light will be placed oa the sooth side of Esquite smoothly.
CathedralMansions
DINING ROOM 
/rSUNDAY SINNER
A delicious mol, $ 4 
served well, in a I 
pleaace place I 
BBEAKFflST, LDNCB AND 
DINflEB EVERY DAY
Call MISS DRISCOLL
EQsvonb Aveaee od Onte Suwi
gineering Hall. Iti felt that this
At the University of Holland unique customs govern lie conduct of fraternity pledges. Each iust hare his head shaTed off. enter the house by a windowono circumstances is he allowed
cfl to fulfill fhe duties of Social Chairman of the Night School during the present year. As Semai Chairman, Mr. Stone will assume I
proof frhsr the boys had b&en look* I ins forward to the refreshments. | The actuality fully lived op tc expectation in this Instance, lor I tbe food was delicious and appeilZr I
: paistiveiy: speaking, and v fliat maybe pneperity has i
tions during the year he is in office. He has had yahiable. experience as Assistant chairmantmder Mr. C. A. BloeMnger, tinder, ivhose guidance the CotuteQ fun<x| tions enjoyed great success. It is therefore felt that Mr. Stone wQl be very cniccessfoi in fulffning the
Students May Use 
NewParking Space
Mr. Fairley Suggests Use Of 
Space on M. 5i. Street
wfrenerer pcaslble speaks well not i only for their deteraifnation, but for the high value that Is placed on instruction the students receive in the Night Courses of the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
IhgB'and'Gronnds, that-the apace In I electloithe rear of the Women's Dormitoiy ------at 5141 Margaret Morrison be used by the night stndent body fi Ing purposes.
Didja Notice
THAT our friends Hill showed the fans football ast week.THAT theyve gone and deliberately curtailed the street car penriee.THAT it was had enough beTHAT the Art Show Is certainly drawing the crowd8----------Carnegie Is well repre^t the Show.THAT If about five times as many engineers had been present at the Engii nearly everyone would have been there.THAT everyoi ed with the effielen
Physics Seminar | 
Holds 2nd Meet
Informal Gathering Hears j 
Scientific Discussions
The Molecular Physics Seminar J held its weekly meeting last Thursday at S:15 p. m. in room j 113. Engineering HalL Dr.Tnglia of the University of PitLs-1 burgh, tbe speaker of the evening, the Theory of Nuclear | | Magnetic Moments.''
Thursday's meeting ind in a series which It is hoped \ rti; continue throughiDr. L*. A. Toung of the
r park-____ _ . One hundred'be'parked in this area.
Thirty-Second Art 
Exhibition Opened
Art Student Explains Can& 
For Choice of Winners
Of interest to artists.and art stcdents of Pittsburgh, endoat districts is the Thirty-Secatui xmal Interna tin nal Exhibition ot . ;-AT(.-kih:h opeESS-TPKi^-a-s-rshowing in Carnegie Institute on 'Wednesday evening. October 17.1 As usual, art lovers throughout thel . district'-were for ihz occa. !
The galleries were opened to the I . 'psbluj - the - following day. Thel names of the prize winners were announced over a national hook-up _ originating at Station KDKA. in PlltsTbutgh ax S:30'oh Tuesday eve' nftig. The announcement was made by Mr, Samuel Harden Church, chairman of the Board of Trustees . ot Carnegie Institute. * ' ;The winners of this years were: Peter Blame (American,) First Prize for his painting "South of Scranton;"' Kari Hofer (German,) Second Prize for his "Pastoral;11 . Sidney Laufmao (American,) Third
er; the awarding of the prizes. - The reason is somewhat - simple. - The artist criticizes painting on tbe basis of execution
'-painting aad looks for them' with
; JS' depIcted may be i, rendered rom an ai ............' view than one which is dominated by ascene of si^esdor.
-donslderation ini this' cas 1' asnal: .'ly subject matter.' A painting must :poriray a subject' the public Is 'Ofitt bt 'The average p
been well rendered. - At - least,' lie And no fault with the. rendition^  is therefore logical to-expectthat the juria and the
ofHce of Tice President of Na.SIgmia Alpha tratarnity. The experience gained in these activities wQl be of great assistance to him. in carrying enzt his present office to the better advantage of the night students. '
The staff of the Flaid joins with the incoming Night Student Council in wishing tfi<
he pahljjewlD
