The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 17 Carnegie Mellon University February 16,1988
CMUs sexy body parts and 60 seconds 
at the movies
FEATURES................Page 15
SPORTS....................Page 28
Mens b-ball upsets John Carroll and 
swimming sails on to another victory
photo by Chris Young
The Software Engineering Institute, located on Fifth Avenue, was the site of the 
quarterly Board of Trustees meeting held on May 8. The Trustees discussed the 
University Center as well as hearing reports from President Cyert and other 
administration officials.
Search for new Art Department 
head narrowed to five candidates
The Tartan in Ioym
well published as an artist. Many consider 
Goodyear to be one of the countrys leading 
sculptors.
The third candidate, Brian Rogers, has a 
strong background in the sciences. In addition 
to an art degree, Rogers has chemical engi
neering degree. He is currently an associate 
professor of art at San Fransisco State Univer
sity.
The two other candidates have not been 
named since they have not yet been inter
viewed. According to Dean Akram Midani of 
the College of Fine Arts, the interview with the 
final candidate is scheduled for the first week 
in March. Midani expressed a hope that the 
decision would be reached as to who will fill 
the position by the end of March.
The five candidates were recommended by a 
search committee, which was formed earlier 
this year.
Last year a search turned up a number of 
candidates for the position. The field was 
eventually narrowed down to two candidates, 
both of whom dropped out, citing personal
reasons.
The process of deciding who gets the job 
involves having the prospective candidates 
interviewed by a number of people. The
continued on page 3
photo by Jonathan Levy
Presidential candidate Robert Dole won the Republican caucuses in Iowa, which 
were held on February 8. Complete Tartan coverage begins on page 5.
Student struck during car chase on Forbes
By RHONDA LANDY
Tartan Staffer iter
On the morning of Friday, February 12, Pitts
burgh police observed a blue Honda, later 
found to have been stolen several days before, 
going through a school zone at a high rate of 
speed. The police attempted to flag the vehicle 
down, but instead of slowing down, the car 
picked up speed and Pittsburgh Police fol
lowed it.
The Honda reached the intersection of 
Forbes and Morewood at about 7:45 am, ac
cording to eyewitness Neil Ebner. The Honda 
ran the red light and struck Thomas Donovan, 
a junior in H&SS and member of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon fraternity and ROTC. The car then 
went out of control.
According to Ebner, a graduate student with 
GSIA and accountant for the CMU Account
ing Department, The car came up on the 
sidewalk [on the campus side of Forbes Ave
nue], into the grass, and back onto Forbes.
The driver, 18 year-old Robert White of 3354 
Webster Avenue, jumped out of vehicle and 
ran into Skibo, where he allegedly snatched a
jacket.
Tze Lin, an eyewitness, saw him leaving, 
called Campus Police. They, in turn, alerted 
Pittsburgh Police who picked up the chase on 
foot. A Pittsburgh policeman saw White enter 
the stadium area and chased White into Schenley Park until the suspect outran him.
About an hour later. White was seen on 
Forbes Avenue wearing the jacket stolen in 
Skibo. After a positive identification by the 
officer who had chased him through Schenley, 
White was arrested and taken into custody of 
Pittsburgh Police.
At press time Donovan was at Presbyterian 
University Hospital in critical but stable con
dition.
Campus Police is still looking for owner of 
coat for positive identification. The coat is an 
important piece of evidence against White. 
Chief James-Lapaglia described the coat as a 
nylon, waist-length coat, large size. The brand 
name is Snowdrift, and it is blue and red with 
yellow bottom and a red lining.
Anyone with information concerning this 
coat is urged to contact Campus Police.
Board of Trustees to vote in May on divestment
By SHIZUKA OTAKE
Tartan Staffwriter 
A decision on divestment of Carnegie 
Mellons holdings in companies that do busi
ness in South Africa will be made at the May 
meeting of Board of Trustees.
Approximately a year ago. President Cyert 
appointed the Investment Responsibility 
Committee to look into divestment and advise 
the Board of Trustees. This committee con
sists of approximately ten students, faculty, 
and trustees.
Unfortunately, the committee has been un
able to come to a decision as a group. Because 
the opinions are so polarized, they have been 
unable to produce a report to advise the Board
of Trustees.
Apartheid has prompted many universities to 
consider selling their stockholdings in compa
nies that have interests in South Africa.
University Treasurer Edward M. Hunia. a 
member of the committee, explained the issue 
was no longer one of economics. Carnegie 
Mellon has only about $8 million invested in 
these corporations; to replace them would be 
no problem. The committee is trying to decide 
whether they believe in following the Sullivan 
Principles or in divestment to benefit the South 
African people.
The Sullivan Principles are a list of rules that 
endorse desegregation and equality in Americontinued on pafe 3
By CARLOS FRANCO
Tartan Staffwriter
After a 1987 attempt to find a head for the
Department of Art proved unsuccessful, the 
k College of Fine Arts is once again trying to 
find someone for the position.
Five candidates are currently being consid
ered for the position of head of the Department 
of Art. Three have visited the campus and 
undergone a series of rigorous interviews. The 
other two will also take part in this interview 
process before the end of March.
Provost Angel Jordan asserted that he has 
j been extremely impressed with the three can
didates he has interviewed. He also stated that 
no decision will be made until the final two 
have been interviewed. Jordan felt that if the 
last two candidates are as good as their resu
mes the decision is going to be difficult. 
Todd Siler, an artist residence at MIT who 
also teaches, is one of the candidates who is being considered. He has a strong technical 
background, including an interdisciplinary 
Ph.D. from MIT with a strong component of 
neurosciences, artificial intelligence, and 
technology.
A second applicant to the post is John 
Goodyear, Head of Rutgers Art Department. 
He is both a painter and a sculptor and has been

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanFebruary 16,1988
World
News\m/Wf*
Clarification:
ACME did not appear last week because 
The Tartan did not receive it from Public 
Relations in time for publication.
National
News
Soviets claim U.S. 
ships violated border
MOSCOW (AP)  The Soviet Union al
leged that two U.S. Navy ships the Pentagon 
says were bumped by Soviet warships in the 
Black Sea had violated the Soviet border.
The Defense Ministry, in a statement carried 
by the Tass news agency, said the USS Caron 
and USS Yorktown had penetrated the border 
by seven kilometers. The statement didn't 
mention any physical contact between the 
U.S. and Soviet ships.
The U.S. ships didnt react to warning sig
nals of Soviet border guard ships and danger
ously maneuvered in Soviet territorial wa
ters, the ministry said.
The statement said the incident occurred 
Friday morning in the Black Sea off the Cri
mean Peninsula and that the U.S. ships left 
Soviet waters about two hours later.
In Washington, the Defense Department said 
two different Soviet ships deliberately struck 
the cruiser Yorktown and the destroyer Caron. 
It said the Yorktown was slightly damaged.
Gorbachev sets date 
for Afghan withdrawal
MOSCOW (AP) Soviet leader Mikhail S. 
Gorbachev said the Kremlin has set May 15 as 
the date to begin pulling its troops out of 
Afghanistan if U.N.-sponsored talks on the 
conflict result in a settlement.
Gorbachev said the withdrawal would be 
completed within 10 months.
He said the date for beginning the pullout 
was based on the assumption that negotiations 
in Geneva between Afghanistan and Pakistan 
will result in an agreement by March 15.
It was the first mention by the Soviet leader 
of a specific date for the withdrawal of the 
estimated 115,000 Soviet troops.
U.N.-brokered talks between Afghanistan 
and Pakistan, which stands in for the guerril
las, have been stuck on developing a timetable 
for the Soviet withdrawal.
Gorbachevs remarks indicated the Soviets 
were offering a timetable they hope will bring 
about a rapid settlement at the negotiations.
Former Reagan aide 
found guility
WASHINGTON (AP)  Lyn Nofziger, 
President Reagan's former political director 
who was found guilty of charges he illegally 
lobbied top presidential aides for private 
clients after leaving the White House, was 
convicted on three of four felony charges.
The convictions were on charges that he had 
illegally lobbied former colleagues on behalf 
of Wedtech Corp., a maritime engineers union 
and the manufacturer of the Air Forces A-10 
anti-tank plane.
The jury acquitted Nofziger, 63, of another 
Wedtech-related charge, that he had illegally 
lobbied a White House official on behalf of Wedtech.
The jury cleared Nofzigers partner, Mark A. 
Bragg, of a felony charge of aiding and abet
ting.
A crucial piece of evidence was a May 28, 
1982, letter to deputy presidential counselor 
James E. Jenkins. Nofzigers defense had 
contended that his name on the Jenkins letter 
had been forged by another Wedtech lobbyist.
Nofziger could be sentenced to six years in 
prison and fined up to $30,000 on the three 
convictions. U.S. District Judge Thomas A. 
Flannery scheduled sentencing for March 25.
Appeals court rejects 
mandatory drug tests
SAN FRANCISCO (DJ)  A U.S. appeals 
court here struck down mandatory drug and 
alcohol testing of railroad workers involved in 
accidents or rule violations. The decision 
clouds a Reagan administration order for 
mandatory drug testing of certain workers 
employed or regulated by the federal govern
ment.
In a 2-to-1 ruling, the Ninth Circuit Court of 
Appeals reversed a lower-court decision and 
ruled that railroad companies may not require 
employees to submit to a drug or alcohol test 
without a warrant. The court based its reason
ing on a decision by the U.S. Supreme Court in 
which a mandatory blood test in a criminal 
investigation was found to violate constitu
tional protections against unreasonable 
searches.
The Supreme Court has yet to rule on the 
issue of mandatory drug testing and the issue 
remains unresolved by conflicting appeals 
court decisions.
In Washington, Transportation Secretary 
James Burnley said the department would
SCIENCE AND 
ENGINEERING 
MAJORS!
The Air Force has open
ings for men and women in 
selected science and engineering 
fields To prepare you for one, you can 
apply for an Air Force R0TC scholarship. 
See what it can do for you. Contact the cam
pus Air Force ROTC representative today
RIC
Leadenhip Ejreflence Starts Here
appeal the Ninth Circuit decision.
James Burnett, chairman of the National 
Transportation Safety Board, an independent 
agency that investigates transportation acci
dents, said that post-accident drug and alcohol 
testing of all employees in safety-sensitive 
railroad jobs is critical to accident investiga
tions and remains justified.
The Ninth Circuit ruling deals the sharpest 
legal blow to date to the governments drugtesting plans. The court, however, often takes 
aggressive stands that are overruled by the 
Supreme Court.
Edward Chen, staff attorney for the Ameri
can Civil Liberties Union of Northern Califor
nia, which filed a friend-of-the-court brief in 
the railroad case opposing the drug tests, 
applauded the decision for setting out a high 
standard of suspicion that the government 
should use in determining when to require 
drug tests of individual workers.
Earthquake injures 20 
in Los Angeles
WHITTIER, Calif. (AP)  At least 20 
people were injured by a strong earthquake 
that jolted southern California Thursday, 
rocking a 10,000-square-mile area.
Damage was slight, with some broken win
dows reported.
At Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in 
Whittier, at least 20 people were being treated 
for minor injuries, officials said. At least two 
people were admitted.
The quake measured 5.0 on the Richter scale 
and struck at 7:25 am local time, in the Whit
tier narrows area, meaning it was an after
shock of the Oct. 1 quake centered there, said 
Jacquelyn Dreher, spokeswoman for the Cali
fornia Institute of Technology, which moni
tors earthquakes.
The U.S. Geological Survey, which recorded 
the earthquake at Golden, Colo., computed the 
magnitude at 4.7. The survey also said no 
reports of damage had been received. The 
seismographic stations at the University of 
California at Berkeley measured the magni
tude at 4.5, said Bob Urhammer, associate 
research seismologist.
Trade deficit shrinks to 
$12.2 billion
WASHINGTON (AP)  The Reagan 
Administration was quick to hail Fridays 
smaller-than-expected December U.S. mer
chandise trade deficit of $12.2 billion.
Trade representative Clayton K. Yeutter said 
the drop in the deficit is good news, particu
larly since this is the second straight monthly 
decline. We hope this is a sign that there are 
better days ahead on the trade front.
Jay Goldinger, economist for Cantor, Fitz
gerald, a Los Angeles bond brokerage, said the
trade figures demonstrate we are in the 
middle of a major change in course on the 
balance of trade.
But its a big ship. And you dont turn it on 
a dime. But at least we know were headed 
home, Goldinger said.
The deficit was the smallest gap since 
Januarys $ 11.9 billion shortfall, as exports hit 
a record.
Exports have been climbing in recent months # 
under pressure from a weaker dollar, which 
makes U.S. goods more competitive abroad 
while driving up the price of imports.
Government and private economists have 
suggested that an export boom could be the 
major factor in finally bringing down the trade 
deficit, which has been increasing steadily 
since the late 1970s.
The monthly trade figures, which  
govemmment analysts caution can be mis
leading because they are not adjusted for either 
seasonal factors or inflation, have become one 
of the most closely watched set of government 
statistics by financial markets.
In fact, the task force appointed by President 
Reagan to study the market collapse identified 
a weaker-than-expected trade report released 
in early October as one factor triggering the % 
508-point stock price plunge.
Local
News
Incinerator aid sails to 
unknown location
PHILADELPHIA  According to the Pitts* 
burgh Press, two ships loaded with Philadel
phia incinerator ash are on the high seas. Their 
destination is unknown.
The first ship left on February 4 loaded with
14,000 tons of ash, according to the Philadel^ 
phia Maritime Exchange.
February 5, another ship was forced to leave 
Haiti after it was prevented from unloading its 
cargo of ash.
Officals gave conflicting reports on where 
the Philadelphia ash was headed. Reports that 
it was headed to Haiti were contradicted by 
speculation that was headed for Panama.
An attache at the U.S. Embassy in Haiti was 
quoted as saying that if the ash showed up in 
Haiti, it could potentially embarrass the 
United States.
Bulkhandling officals declined to reveal the 
ships destination.
News Briefs appear courtesy 
of Dow Jones, Inc.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
Vol Vume82e, I s8m17e8 C7a7rung7e8 V7e87i MUvtMvMM
yF87i b699 ngS Pe PeOR7i2e, O7ia2T7 un7iP8ui R2rr .7rn cum i7PT. 8.7 O8PFF 
member on TPrFh
VfwAyVA D288Opmi,.hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh dWMtN9M:
MN .umi 87r7n.ue7 TumeO7r2e,S Ti2O2O 2e87ia7e82ueS Pe1 Omnnui82a7 r2O87e2e,
Cim, Vuee7T82uehhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh WbNt9d99
ye PrTu.urG1im, Ti2O2O .u8r2e7S b t v ng
A7rty j1hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhMWtNUUN
y s7i27O uF 8Pn71 2eFuigP82ue ue g712TPrS r7,PrS TueOmg7iS Pe1 OPF78c 2OOm7Oh 
02O8O uF 828r7O Pnn7Pi 2e 8.7 prm7 nP,7O uF 8.7 D288Opmi,. 87r7n.ue7 12i7T8uich
VumeO7r2e, Pe1 s8m17e8 C7a7rung7e8 V7e87iS P 12a2O2ue uF s8m17e8 yFFP2iO 
Morewood Gardens - E Tower

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage 3
photo by Howdy Pierce
Experts participate in a panel discussion during the campus-wide course Tenting 
in High Tech on Saturday. From left: David Brandin, Strategic Technologies; 
Harold Luks, Arnold and Porter; Francisco Sagasti, World Bank; Granger Mor
gan, CMU; Donald Weadon, Weadon, Dibble, and Rehm; Daniel Resnick, CMU.
By HOWDY PIERCE is to prevent or delay the acquisition by the
Tartan Features Co-Editor Soviet Union of any militarily critical techThis past weekend, Carnegie Mellons nology. Much of such technology is a part
third campus-wide course, entitled Fenc
ing in High Tech, was held in the Wherrett 
Room.
Mthough Fencing was advertised by 
posters across campus, many students did 
not know what the course was about  or, 
indeed, that it was even a course. It was 
subtitled Costs, benefits, and policy op
tions for controls on international flows of 
high technology knowledge and products.
The course, held under the auspices of 
CMUs Department of Engineering and 
Public Policy, could be taken by students or 
faculty members for credit, audit with tran
script record, or audit without transcript 
record.
Students taking the course for academic 
credit were required to read some materials 
relevant to the courses topic and take a 
quiz Friday evening; an essay due next 
Monday completes the coursework. The 
class was worth two units.
The course commenced at 1:30 Friday 
afternoon and ended Saturday evening at 
about 6:00. Dinner and dessert for those 
who were interested followed in the Fac
ulty Dining Room until later that night.
The courses format was that of a confer
ence. Specialists from industry and govern
ment, as well as several Carnegie Mellon 
faculty members, were brought in to speak 
and participate in round tables. Granger 
Morgan, head of EPP, chaired the course.
We were looking for a large scale prob
lem, something that cuts across the inter
ests of the different colleges, stated Mor
gan. This is an issue...which has emerged 
as a very hot topic.
The idea behind national security controls
of what is termed dual-use technology  
items which have both commercial and 
defense applications. The United States 
has implemented a complex set of licens
ing requirements for any exporter of high 
technology.
The US is also a member of COCOM 
(The Coordinating Committee for Multi
lateral Export Controls), an organization 
consisting of Japan and all NATO nations 
except Iceland. COCOM also serves to 
regulate the export of Western technology.
In recent years, questions have been 
raised about whether the United States 
licensing requirements are too strict and 
therefore cause US firms to lose foreign 
market shares. To further complicate the 
problem, export control is jointly admini
stered by the departments of Defense, 
Commerce, and the Treasury, and is often 
the victim of interdepartment political 
battles. The topic of the course was the type 
of regulations that should replace the cur
rent bureaucratic muddle.
There is no question that we must lift the 
complexity of controls, said Donald 
Weadon of the international law firm of 
Weadon, Dibble, and Rehm. We have to 
retain an optimism for dealing with the 
structure as it is now...and maintain longrange goals.
Morgan summarized the two-day course 
by recalling Robert Frostss Two roads 
diverged in a yellow wood, and I, I took the 
one less travelled by. And that has made all 
the difference.
Perhaps we'll find branches in the fu
ture, hoped Morgan. Lets try to take the 
ones less travelled in the past.
Trustees to consider divestment
continued from page 1
 can corporations within South Africa. The 
Sullivan Principles not only address equality 
within the corporations but urges companies 
to actively support social equality and the 
ending of all Apartheid laws.
One reason that divestment may not be bene
ficial is that so far it has not produced any 
significant results. The U.S. does not have 
many interests in South Africa compared to 
m Japan and England. American companies 
pulling out does not seem to create many 
problems for the South African government.
The issue is further complicated by the fact 
that Leon Sullivan, who originally wrote the 
principles, has disassociated himself from 
them, claiming that they are not having 
enough effect, and calls for divestment.
Because of Apartheid, about 150 American
Senate allocates extra money for Spirit speaker
By KEVIN POECKING
Tartan Staffwriter
Additional funds were allocated to Spirit 
during the last meeting of Student Senate. The 
money was given to finance a speaker, who 
appeared as part of Spirits recognition of 
Black History Month.
Chairman of the Funding and Recognition 
Committee, Tamal Mukherjee, CIT, proposed 
to allocate the club $ 100, enough for room and 
board for one nights stay.
Senators were not clear about who the 
speaker was going to be. According to Spirit 
President Nicole Austin, the money was for 
Adlai Stanford, who spoke Sunday, Feb. 14.
Senator Allen Greenberg proposed to raise 
the amount to $150 in order for a student 
representative to dine with the speaker. Green
berg also said Spirits past activities have been 
a service to the campus community. This 
proposal met with immediate debate.
Mukherjee explained that the initial amount 
was plenty ($63 for a hotel and $37 for an 
evening snack and Sunday brunch) arguing 
that the club should not have booked the 
speaker before having the funds nor should the 
activities fee pay for an individual students 
meal. He also claimed that they have not been
putting enough effort into their fund-raisers.
Senator Vidal Graupera, CIT, pointed out 
that it would not be wise to set a precedent of 
giving clubs who dont budget in advance 
more money during the year.
The proposal to add $50 to the original mo
tion failed, but the motion to allocate $100 
passed.
At the end of the meeting. President of Stu
dent Government Andrew Robitshek ex
pressed his personal opposition to funding 
Spirit's speaker since the guest is unknown 
and could turn out to be the responsibility of 
Political Speaker's Forum Board. President 
Robitshek is an ex-officio member of Senate 
and is hence non-voting.
In other Senate news...
Also, Senator Matthew Ruben explained that 
the Jello-wrestling which was planned and 
advertised by Senate could not be held. UDS 
was originally going to provide the Jello, but 
gave Senate a final word stating that much 
Jello will not last that long. However, UDS did 
offer pudding for the event.
Several senators didnt like the idea of pud
ding-wrestling, but as one senator said, wres
tling in organic material is very popular.
Trustees meet at SEI
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
The Carnegie Mellon Board of Trustees held 
a closed meeting in the Software Engineering 
Institute building auditorium last Monday, 
Feb. 8, where the Trustees re-affirmed their 
commitment to the University Center.
Calling the Center the number one priority, 
Vice President for Development Alvin Brannick told the Board that the Center had to be 
built in order for this school to maintain its 
rightful place in the academic community. 
But, Brannick continued, no one has given 
the $10 million dollar naming gift the univer
sity is looking for and creative fundraising 
methods are being looked into for the $30 
million building.
Included in these alternate methods are bor
rowing the money or dipping into the 
universitys endowment.
Even this, though, wasnt good enough for 
some trustees: a few wanted construction to 
begin immediately and others wanted at least 
an exact date for construction to begin.
That's the key  pick the date and put a 
spade in the ground. And then you move 
forward. said Board Chairman Douglas
Danforth.
In other business. President Richard Cyert 
opened the 2:30 meeting with a 20 minute 
progress report in which he talked about the 
LCB raid on the fraternities last semester.
Cyert reported that the university has had 
some good meetings with the Liquor Control 
Board and we think we have a good under
standing worked out with them." He cited the 
Student Affairs alcohol-awareness programs 
and dry rush as two ways of fighting alcohol
ism on campus.
yi8 C7n8S .7P1 
8u p7 O7r7T871
continued from page I
people who are involved in interviewing the 
candidates for the position are: the faculty in 
the Department of Art. Angel Jordan. Dean 
Midani. as well as a group of faculty members 
outside CFA.
The interviewers will arrive at an agreement 
about who is most suited for the job. Once this 
has been decided, the position will be offered 
to the individual who was selected.
companies have totally withdrawn from South 
Africa. Others have remained, some for eco
nomic reasons, others because they feel that it 
would have little or no effect on the South 
African government if they withdrew. Some 
companies are staying and following the Sul
livan Principles.
Hunia stated that he believed in following the 
Sullivan Principles, and that a company 
should stay and try to maintain a positive 
influence in South Africa. To support the 
Sullivan Principles, he felt that Carnegie 
Mellon should not divest. However, this was 
his personal opinion and not the opinion of the 
university, the Committee, or the Board.
He also felt that although companies should 
not pull out, either way American companies 
did not have much of an influence on the South 
African government.
Accreditation team visiting campus
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
After a year of strategic planning, Carne
gie Mellon is ready for its ten year Middle 
States Association of Colleges and Schools 
accreditation review.
A team of 14 educators and administra
tors from Middle States member universi
ties and colleges will be visiting the univer
sity from Feb. 12 through Feb. 24.
Calling the review routine, Director of 
University Planning Pat Keating has been 
preparing for the evaluation visit since last 
January, writing a report to be presented to 
the team titled Goals and Strategic Plans.
The review, explained Keating, will be a 
general review of the whole university 
community from Physical Plant to Dr. 
Cyert.
To get this cross-sectional view of the in
stitution, the evaluation team, chaired by
Dr. William C. Danforth, Chancellor of 
Washington University in St. Louis, will be 
talking with students, faculty, staff, and 
administrators in both formal and ini >rmal 
meetings.
Accreditation, meeting at least Middle 
States lowest standards, is not over when 
the evaluation team leaves campus. After 
the visit, a report and recommendation for 
accreditation is filed and recommenda
tions for improving the institution are sug
gested.
According to Keating, CMU usually 
implements the suggestions after the ac
creditation visits.
The Middle States Association is made 
up of schools in Pennsylvania and neigh
boring states, both secondary and post
secondary institutions.
The last time Carnegie Mellon underwent 
a Middle States' accreditation was in 1977.

---------------------------------------------------

A.7 eTi 300,000 O8P7.ur17i 
Essyq VfoDEAjAjfw kfL sAlCEwAs
Volumeem82 Vol ,oIssl21l Vol 7Csle
NCR
V8am2
'Vi'ere so committed to our mission 
that were encouraging the next 
generation of leaders to re-examine 
Americas business values. Were 
doing this by holding the NCR 
Stakeholder Essay Competition 
which all full-time undergraduate 
and graduate college or university 
students may enter. Entries should 
explore the topic: Creating Value 
for All Stakeholders in 
Corporations and/or Not-for-Profit 
Organizations.
The student chosen as the first 
place winner will be awarded 
$50,000 cash. Plus, the entrants 
school will receive $100,000 in 
NCR data processing equipment. 
The second place winner will 
receive $15,000 cash and the 
entrants school will receive $35,000 
in equipment. One hundred $1,000 
awards of merit will be given to 
chosen participants. In addition, 
selected award-winning entrants 
will be invited to attend the first 
NCR International Symposium on 
Stakeholders to be held June 9 & 10, 
1988, in Dayton, Ohio.
1) The NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition is open 
to any full-time undergraduate or graduate student 
attending an accredited college or university in the 
United States or its territories.
2) Entries must be original, unpublished work on 
the topic: Creating Value for All Stakeholders in 
Corporations and/or Not-for-Profit Organizations. 
Essays must not exceed 3,000 words. Areas of 
discussion may include, but are not limited to: Ethics, 
Corporate Governance, Strategic Management, Social 
Responsibility, or Managing Change as these topics 
relate to managing for stakeholders.
3) Entries must be typed, double-spaced on 8 Vi" x 11" 
bond paper, one side only. A separate cover sheet 
should list the entrants name, school, home address 
and title of the essay. Subsequent pages should be 
numbered sequentially and include the essay title in 
the upper right margin. Winners will be required to 
produce proof of current full-time college or university 
enrollment.
4) All entries must be postmarked by March 31, 1988, 
and received by April 15,1988 to be eligible for 
consideration. Submit entries to: NCR Stakeholder 
Essay Competition, NCR Corporation, Stakeholder 
Relations Division, Dayton, Ohio 45479. NCR is not 
responsible for, and will not consider, late, lost or 
misdirected entries.
5) In the event any prize winner is a minor, the cash 
award will be made to his/her parent or guardian.
6) Awards to individuals will be reported as income on 
IRS Form 1099. All taxes are the responsibility of 
the recipients.
7) Award winners will be required to sign publicity 
releases and affidavits of eligibility and compliance 
with all rules governing the competition. Failure to 
return executed affidavits and releases within 15 days 
of receipt will cause the award to be null and void.
8) All entries become the property of NCR and will not 
be returned.
9) By participating in this competition entrants agree to 
these rules and the decisions of the judges which 
shall be final in all respects, and further agree to the 
use of their names, likenesses and entries for NCR 
advertising and publicity purposes without any further 
compensation.
State and territorial judges will consist of panels that 
include NCR stakeholders. Final selections will be made 
from state and territory winners by a national panel 
of judges.
If clarification is necessary, call (513) 445-1667,8am-5pm
To ,rlInl aCl
At NCR, weve found that in 
order to create value, we must first 
satisfy the legitimate expectations 
of every person with a stake in our 
company. We call these people our 
stakeholders, and we attempt to 
satisfy their expectations by 
promoting partnerships in which 
everyone is a winner.
 We believe in building mutually 
beneficial and enduring relationships 
with all of our stakeholders, based 
on conducting business activities 
with integrity and respect.
 We take customer satisfaction 
personally: we are committed to 
providing superior value in our 
products and services on a continuing 
basis.
 We respect the individuality of 
each employee and foster an 
environment in which employees' 
creativity and productivity are 
encouraged, recognized, valued and 
rewarded.
 We think of our suppliers as partners 
who share our goal of achieving the 
highest quality standards and the 
most consistent level of service.
 We are committed to being caring 
and supportive corporate citizens 
within the worldwide communities 
in which we operate.
We are dedicated to creating value 
for our shareholders and financial 
communities by performing in a 
manner that will enhance the return 
on their investments.
EST.
Award winners will be notified on or about May 16,1988. 
To obtain a list of finalists, send a self-addressed, stamped 
envelope to:
NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition 
NCR Corporation 
Stakeholder Relations Division 
1700 South Patterson Boulevard 
Dayton, Ohio 45479
NCRs Mission: Create Value for Our Stakeholders

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage 5
Tartan visits the
Democratic caucus in the precinct and ask if 
the person needed a ride to and from the 
caucus. If the person needed a ride or was not 
home, this was recorded on the card.
If the card was for a person who had been 
undecided, the volunteer asked if he or she was 
still undecided. If the person was undecided or 
favored another candidate the volunteer gave 
him or her the leaflets. After leaving the house, 
the volunteer removed the card from the deck 
and tore it up.
People who said they now supported Simon 
were treated the same way as those who had 
been marked as supporters previously.
Greenberg and Berger spent Saturday canvasing 60 homes in Des Moines 28th precinct. 
Many of the people they visited were, in fact, 
Simon supporters although some were still 
undecided, not planning to vote, or supporting 
other candidates. Those who had moved away 
from Simon had not moved to one particular 
candidate. Some people had switched to other 
Democratic candidates such as Richard 
Gephardt and Michael Dukakis. Others had 
crossed over to Republicans such as Robert 
Dole and Pat Robertson.
The procedure on Sunday and Monday was 
similar to Saturdays. On Sunday, the Simon 
campaign targeted people bom between 1917 
and 1921. These so called Notch Babies 
receive less social security money each month 
than people bom outside this period. The vol
unteers were instructed to emphasize Simons 
plans to eliminate the inequity if elected. Some 
of the volunteers telephoned people who had 
not been home on Saturday.
Monday was spent making a final effort to 
get Simon supporters out to the caucuses. 
Volunteers left reminders on the doors of
Iowa campaignThe
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffwriter 
DES MOINES, Iowa  The weekend lead
ing up to the Iowa caucuses was very busy both 
for the presidential candidates and their cam
paign workers. The latter group included three 
|amegie Mellon students.
CMU students Peter Berger, Allen Green
berg, and Mike Scanlon were among the hun
dreds of out of staters doing last minute cam
paign work in prepara
tion for the caucuses on 
February 8.
Greenberg, who is 
running on Simons al
ternate delegate slate in the April 26 Pennslyvania primary, organized the trip.
They reported to Simons campaign head
quarters and joined a few workers who were 
already there in putting together walking 
packets containing a map of a precinct in Des 
Moines, walking decks (cards with the ad
dresses of people who were either Simon 
supporters or undecided), and various leaflets. 
^ By nine oclock groups from Chicago, 
Washington D.C., Georgia, and other areas 
around the country had arrived at the cam
paign headquarters. The people were divided 
into groups of two or three (including one 
person with a car) and assigned a precinct to 
work. Berger and Greenberg were assigned to 
one precinct. Scanlon was assigned to another 
group.
^ Each group was given a walking packet for a 
particular precinct and instructed to go to each 
house listed on the cards in the walking deck. 
If the card was for a Simon supporter, the 
volunteers were instructed to give the person a 
copy of each leaflet and the address of the
photo by Jonathan Levy
Republican Pat Robertson made a strong showing in the Iowa caucuses, beating Vice 
President George Bush.
Simon supporters.
While their volunteers were canvasing vot
ers, most of the presidential candidates spent 
the last weekend before the caucuses traveling 
around Iowa trying to pick up last minute 
votes.
Many of the candidates who were in the state 
addressed education as a major issue. In par
ticular funding college education was men
tioned. Dukakis raised the issue while speak
ing at a high school in West Des Moines. In 
answer to a question from a student about 
education in general, Dukakis said, My hope 
as President of the United States is that I can 
help to recommit this country once again to 
one very basic proposition. And that is that no
young person in this country who finishes high 
school, who is qualified to do college work, 
and who is admitted to college ever should be 
denied an opportunity because of financial 
need.
Republican Pat Robertson answered a ques
tion from a student reporter by saying I am 
proposing that for students in school at univer
sities that we provide scholarships for those 
skills which are critically needed in the ongo
ing of America, scientific skills particularly. 
Robertson said that he would also like to see 
student loans taken over by the private sector 
with the government helping to fund the banks 
and he would like to see students pay more of
continued on page 7
PRiClMCTS REPORTING 07. OF 2,487 PRECINCTS
ishDole duPont
Prices too high?
Limited selection?
Quality too low?
Bookstore  Entropy  Art Store 
Co-Op  Vending  Laundry
A.7 L78P2r s8ui7O s8m17e8 y1a2Ouic Vugg28877 2O ue 8.7 
TPO7S pm8 R7 e771 cumi 2enm8h 07Pa7 P eu87 R28. cumi 
,i2n7O Fui ye1c Lup28O.7 P8 8.7 s2pu jeFuigP82ue C7Oh
Were working for you!

---------------------------------------------------

NEW
PER
SPEC
TIVES
Learn about a new breed of banker 
when Bankers Trust Company visits 
your campus this Spring.
NIGHT BEFORE PRESENTATION
Thursday, February 18th; 
7:00 - 9:00 pm 
Skibo, Room 201
Come meet with our representatives 
to find out about 
'Merchant Banking
The Bankers Trust Wav."
BankersTrust Company
Shaping the future in finance

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage 7
The Tartan visits Iowa
continued from page 5
their expenses out of money earned while still 
in college so they would not be faced with 
large debts after graduation.
In response to a question by The Tartan, 
Republican Robert Dole described what he is 
*ow doing as U.S. Senator to fund education, 
saying What we are trying to do right now is 
change the formula for Pell Grants so more 
middle income students can get grants. Its 
unfair because maybe their fathers a farmer or 
small businessman and their assets go up 
because of inflation. That means their children 
cant qualify for loans.
On the day of the caucuses, the Simon cam
paign asked Greenberg to act as precinct cap
tain at the Democratic caucus in Des Moines 
first precinct.
A caucus is very much like a precinct meet
ing. Anybody can come to the caucus and any 
residents of the precinct who will be 18 before 
the November 8 election are allowed to vote. 
The purpose of a caucus is to pass resolutions 
which will be sent to the country convention 
Ind to elect delegates to the convention based 
on prefence for particular presidential candi
dates. The delegates to the county convention 
elect delegates to the state convention which in 
turn selects the delegates to the partys na
tional convention.
Anybody at the caucus is allowed to submit 
a resolution. The resolutions are read out loud 
and discussed. They are voted on by a voice 
vote. If the vote is close enough that the result 
is not clear, a hand vote is taken. In the Demo
cratic caucus in the first precinct fourteen 
resolutions were presented ranging from re
quiring yearly registration for contracters to 
calling for Congress to repeal the law which 
allows states to pass right to work laws to 
supporting a ballistic missile test ban treaty. 
Thirteen resolutions were passed. One re
quired a hand vote.
The procedure for selecting delegates to the 
county conventions differs between the 
Democratic and Republican caucuses. In the 
Republican convention a secret ballot vote is 
taken and the delegates are aloted based on the 
result.
In the Democratic caucuses people gather in 
groups in different parts of the room based on
continued on page 8
Iowa caucuses results
Democrats:

Repulicans:
Rep. Richard Gephardt31%Sen. Robert Dole37%
Sen. Paul Simon27%Rev. Pat Robertson25%
Gov. Michael Dukakis22%Vice President George Bush19%
Rev. Jesse Jackson9%Rep. Jack Kemp11%
Gov. Bruce Babbit6%Gov. Pete du Pont7%
Sen. Albert Gore 
Former Sen. Gary Hart
1%
1%
Alexander Haig0%
Lutheran University Center 
4515 Forbes Ave. 
Pitsburgh, PA 15213 
Phone: 682-6886
Ruth Becker, Campus Pastor
SHROVE TUESDAY 
FEBRUARY 16, 5-7 pm
Pancake Supper - $1.25 
Lutheran University Center
ASH WENDESDAY 
FEBRUARY 17, 6:15 pm
Holy Communion 
Impositon of Ashes 
Liturgical Dance 
Heinz Chapel
(Bellefield between Forbes & Fifth)
W-'Uft&Mir'. 'fr-tt&vi t *mv
?-- H U. S. A. T-o
A RECRUIT U.S.A., INC. (800) 325-9759
 CITICORP PLAZA, 725 S. FIGUEROA ST., SUITE 3100 
LOS ANGELES, CA 90017 'PHONE:(213) 955-4900
;VVVAV,y1 / 
fyV
Tartan Candidate Profiles: 
Gore and Robertson
Two presidential candidates are the sons 
of Southern Democratic Senators. Both 
served in the military in Asia. However, the 
similarities between Republican Pat 
Robertson and Democrat Albert Gore, Jr. 
seem to end there.
Gore, at 39, is the youngest candidate in 
the race. He learned politics in Washington 
from his father, a New Deal Democrat from 
Tennessee.
Both father and son opposed the Vietnam 
War. Gore Sr. lost his seat in 1970 because 
of his opposition. Gore Jr. was drafted into 
the army after he graduated from Harvard.
Gores wife Tipper was for many years 
better known than he. She led a movement 
against obscene rock lyrics, an effort she 
has mostly abandoned as Gores presiden
tial hopes blossomed.
As a Congressman and first-time Senator, 
Gore has had a liberal voting record: he 
supports the Arias Central American peace 
proposal and is against military aid to the 
contras. He opposes, but will not rule out a 
tax increase.
An articulate speaker on arms control, he 
would convert missiles from multiple to 
single warheads, if the Soviets would agree 
to the same. Similarly, he would reduce 
Star Wars research as part of an arms deal 
with the Soviets.
Action that will come back to haunt him: 
Reagan convinced him to vote for the MX 
missile in return for a greater voice in arms 
control, which he didnt get.
Trained as a political reporter, Gores
election hopes rest on the outcome of 
March 8s Super Tuesday, when most 
Southern states hold their primaries.
Pat Robertson, on the other hand, hopes a 
band of followers across the nation will 
push him closer toward the nomination.
Robertson graduated from Washington 
and Lee University, where he was a mem
ber of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.
After two years as a Marine in Korea and 
a few fights as a Golden Gloves boxer, he 
entered Yale University Law School.
An active Democrat, Robertson chaired 
his countys Adlai Stevenson for President 
Committee in 1956. During the mid-1950s 
he failed his bar exam.
Some time later, he entered the New 
York Theological Seminary. While there, 
he performed charitable work in a black 
ghetto in Brooklyn.
In the early 1960s he was ordained a 
Southern Baptist minister and was led by 
God to Virginia, where he purchased a TV 
station. A pioneer in TV ministry and tele
phone prayer lines, his Christian Broad
casting Network grew rapidly. In 1977 
CBN began satellite broadcasing and CBN 
University opened its doors.
Robertson is willing to use guns and 
missiles to hold the Communists at bay. 
He favors early deployment of Star Wars 
and diplomatic recognition of the Contras.
Words which will come back to haunt 
him: Now this may be unpalatable to 
some of us...but...the ultimate authority 
needs to be the husband.
Music SALE...
CASSETTES and 
RECORDS.
MAJOR LABELS 
TOP ARTISTS
AFFORDABLE PRICES 
Something.for Everyone
Pop, Rock, Folk, 
Jazz and Classics
fe sPr7 Fui 02g2871 A2g7 
s.un EPirc Fui $7O8 s7r7T82ue
H7gm puuO8ui7
IN BAKER HALL
FEBRUARY 16-26

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanFebruary 16,1988
Tartan visits Iowa
continued from page 7
which presidential candidate they support. 
People are allowed to vote uncommitted if 
they wish and uncommitted groups can send 
delegates to the convention if they are large 
enough.
A candidate must get a certain percentage of 
the voters in order to be considered viable. 
In precincts which elect four or more delegates 
the minimum for viability is 15 percent. 
People in non-viable groups must move to 
another group if they wish to have their votes 
counted. After only viable candidates are left, 
each groupis counted and it is determined how 
many votes the groups get.
After the delegate spots have been divided 
among the groups, each group votes to decide 
who will fill its spots. A number of alternate 
delegates are also selected in case some of the 
delegates are unable to attend the convention. 
If the precinct captain has made any promises 
to get people to come over to the groups they 
are usually respected by the group.
Crime and Incident Report
Compiled by JANET SUCHOCKAS
Tartan Staffwriter
2/5/88 MEDICAL 8:18 pm Victim 
stated she was hit by truck at comer of 
Beeler and Forbes. Victim was knocked 
down and partially under the truck. Driver 
stopped and asked if victim was okay. 
Victim suffered lump on back of head and 
complained of a headache. Victim trans
ported to Presbyterian Hospital.
2/5/88 THEFT between midnight and 3 
am Victim at party 1057 Morewood stated 
persons unknown removed 3/4 length 
black overcoat valued at $200.
2/5/88 THEFT 7:22 pm Persons un
known removed victims 3/4 length grey 
wool coat from party SAE fraternity. Coat 
was valued at $150, gloves and scarf in 
pocket valued at $20.
2/5/88 THEFT 7:22 pm Persons unknown 
removed victims blue ski jacket from party at 
SAE fraternity. Coat was valued at $60, gloves 
and scarf in pocket valued at $20.
2/7/88 THEFT 10:18 pm Persons unknown 
removed victims wallet from Hunt Library. 
Victim lost personal cards and $25 in cash.
2/8/88 THEFT 10:09 am GE AM/FM radio 
removed from top of desk in Warner Hall. 
Radio valued at approximately $30.
2/3/88 to 2/5/88 THEFT Persons unknown 
removed spray gun, Granger catalog, and drip 
proof syphon cup from ceramic studio. Items 
valued at $197.
2/10/88 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT 9:10 pm 
Mudge victim left room for a few minutes. 
Upon returning, victim found fire extinguisher 
discharged in hall and door kicked off hinges. 
No damage estimate.
2/11/88 ASSULT 3 pm Three students 
were walking on 5100 block toward 
Mudge. Cars stopped, three males exited 
and began shoving victims. No one was 
injured. Victims filed report for informa
tion purposes.
2/12/88 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 
2:44 am Victim complained car was hit by 
numerous snowballs while driving on 
Forbes. Police found Delta Upsilon broth
ers and warned them that a report would be 
filed.
Be Aware...
Campus Police are looking for the owner 
of a blue and red Snowdrift brand coat. 
The coat was taken from Skibo on Friday. 
See story on page one for more details.
In three decades weve grown to become a 
world leader in the computer services industry
A.7 Fm8mi7 ruuO 7a7e pi2,.87ih
Growth, innovation and hard work have made Computer Sciences Corporation a world leader. And thanks to the efforts of CSCs talented professionals, weve come a long way since 1959 when we first opened our doors.At CSCs Systems Division, we specialize in software development, systems engineering and integration, and network engineering. Weve designed systems to increase business productivity, provide quick and efficient battlefield management, and to aid in the processing of information for health care programs.Though weve covered a lot of
ground, were even more excited about our future. Theres continuing work on an abundance of networks, communications, communications support, CP and secure computer systems projects. These on-going projects and assignments mean we will continue to search for the best minds and talent in the industry to lead in the next wave of technical systems innovation.If youre a college graduate with a degree in Electronics, Electrical Engineering, Computer
CSC
COMPUTER SCIENCES 
CORPORATION
Science, or Systems Engineering, find out how a career with CSCs Systems Division could brighten your future.If youd like to learn more about our bright future and yours, consider meeting with us. Well be conducting ON-CAMPUS interviews THURSDAY, MARCH 3RD. To arrange an interview, see your College Placement Office or send your resume to: Computer Sciences Corporation, Systems Division, (MC 218  JLB 744), 6565 Arlington Blvd., Falls Church, VA 22046. An equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. U.S. citizenship is required.

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage 9
Minutes of Student Senate: February 9
Meeting called to order 7:00 pm
Senators Present:
Pete Berger, Lisa Christina, Stuart de Jong, 
Don Dennis, Dustin Frazier, Laurie Gallo, 
David Gantshar (replacement), Vidal Graupera, Allen Greenberg, Dana Hausman, Chrisfi tian Herrick, Charles Jainchill, Dave Jacowitz, 
Glenn Kombrek, Hal Levine, Erica Levy, 
Audrey Liu, Tamal Mukherjee, Chris Neigh
bor, Karen Pavlosky, Kishore Rao, Matthew 
Ruben, Mark Steppel, Pete Zapf.
Senators absent: none.
Ex-officio Members Present: Andy Robitshek, Glenn Detillo (replacement).
Ex-officio Members absent: Kerry 
ft Skolkin.
Presidents report: Andy Robitshek
1. Each committee on the Board of Trustees 
will be giving its report next week.
2. Board of Trustees will vote on whether to 
remove stocks from South Africa.
3. University Center date will be set at Trus
tees meeting.
4. Trustees discussed whether to have faculty 
live in the new dorm.
SDC Report: Karen Pavlosky
5. More Pizza now delivers 32 oz. cokes and 
large pizzas to the Hill dorms and Doherty 
Apartments. The pizzas now have 50% moz
zarella cheese and 50% provolone.
6. Kiltie has five nutritious cereals and three 
non-nutritious ones.
7. Discussed carnival tent.
^ Faculty Report: Dr. Fetkovich
8. Chairman Swendsen needs student input 
for department student advisory committees.
9. The Faculty Senate wants to hear student 
views on whether or not to have faculty 
members live in the new dorm.

IFC report: none
Student Affairs Report: Ron Campana
10. Applications for Freshman orientation 
leaders are due February 16. Applications for 
orientation counselors due February 23. 
Freshman Camp counselors need to be here on 
August 21. Campus orientation counselors 
need to be here on August 23.
Chairwomans Report: Erica Levy
11. Whats New at CMU was last week.
12. Destruction of stadium to start the East 
Campus project will begin on May 1.
13. Ted Fenton, a member of the Student 
Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees 
wants to help Freshmen with things such as 
time management.
14. Sinks will be put in Health Services this 
weekend as phase one.
15. Student Senate is going to buy a new 
computer and needs to find a way to lock it.
16. Vacancies in Student Senate: 1 H&SS, 1 
MCS, 3 GSIA, 1 SUPA. Elections are March
1.
17. Spring elections are April 11 and 12.
Treasurers Report: none.
Academic Affairs Report: Lisa Christina
18. Trying to find a way to evaluate the 
libraries.
19. Questionnaire is finished.
20. New ideaAward faculty members for 
excellent teaching. SACS could nominate 
teachers.
21. There is an opening for Dean in the 
Architecture Department.
22. Robitshek recommends looking into 
E&S library with Faculty Senate.
23. There are problems with 7:30 am exams.
Campus Affairs Report: Glenn Kombrek
24. UDS can supply pudding, not jello, for
Jello? wrestling.
25. Pete Zapf is writing letters to the Board of 
Trustees expressing Senates views on space 
allocation on campus. He hopes to become a 
member of the Board.
26. The new phone in Doherty was stolen.
Funding and Recognition Report: Tamal
Mukherjee:
27. $200 allocated to SAMS for advertising 
the Rock-a-Like concert.
28. $ 120 allocated to the Rugby club for new 
goal posts.
29. $100 allocated to Spirit for speaker to 
come this weekend for Black History Month.
30. There are no minutes for the F&R com
mittee.
31. Pioneers recognized as funded organiza
tion.
32. $650 allocated to Pioneers for buggy.
Public Relations Report: Laurie Gallo
33. New window sign for Senate office is 
coming tomorrow.
34. Thinking of making Senate colors red 
and black.
35. Need suggestions for carnival T-shirt.
36. Write on wipe off sign is on Senate office 
door for committee meeting times.
37. Committee wants to start new scrapbook 
tradition with Tartan articles etc. in it.
38. Senate group picture will be taken next 
week. Picture will be given to graduating 
members of Senate.
39. SuggestionSenate become involved in 
publicizing upcoming presidential elections. 
Can sponsor registration on campus.
Rules Report: Pete Berger
40. Committee ideato revise rules agenda.
Old Business:
41. Senator Kombreks campus bulletin
board project passed by Senate. Senator Her
rick stressed the need for establishing a testing, 
period.
New Business:
42. Allen Greenberg was granted the clueless 
senator award for being stranded in Indiana at 
6 this morning.
Points of Discussion:
43. Several senators attended the Drug and 
Alcohol Forum last Saturday. Student Affairs 
wants to have one of the speakers at Freshman 
Orientation.
Announcements:
44. Ed Lilley is running games on Monday 
nights at 7 pm in the Morewood rec room.
45. Pete Zapf is selling carnations and roses 
Wednesday through Friday.
46. Campus affairs meeting tomorrow at 
5:30.
47. Rules meeting Monday at 7.
48. The loft in the office has been redone.
49. Public Relations meeting tomorrow at 6.
50. WRCT Sunday 8:30 pm Rise of ROTC 
on campus. Monday Freedom of speech 
and presidential election.
51. Rock-alike in Ballroom on March(?) 19. 
If interested talk to Andy Robitshek.
Meeting adjourned 8:15 pm
Tartan News 
Staff meetings 
are Mondays 
at 6 pm
Whats wrrong wit h this sentance?
The Tartan is looking for proofreaders to read the newspaper before publication. 
Weekend hours are needed, especially Sunday afternoons and evenings. 
Its good money, good fun, and a good cause. 
So stop by The Tartan office in Skibo Room 50. Ask for Dave. Make a difference.
%

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Its not too late to tell us who was Judy Resnick
Who was Judy Resnick?
Judy Resnick, a 1970 Carnegie Mellon graduate, was killed in the January 1986 space shuttle Challenger explosion.
Who was Judy Resnick?
Judy Resnick represents the best of Carnegie Mellons students  she scored a perfect 1600 on the SATs, majored in 
electrical engineering, played classical piano, joined a sorority, and wrote for The Tartan.
Who was Judy Resnick?
Judy Resnick bridged the gap between technology and art by 
being active in both CIT and CFA; isnt that what CMU is all about?
Who was Judy Resnick?
Judy Resnick left CMU, after getting a PhD in EE from the University of Maryland, to become the second American woman in space.Who was Judy Resnick?
Somebody knows: there is an scholarship in her name for 
female engineering students and there is a memorial planned for the patio between Hamerschlag and Wean Halls.Who was Judy Resnick?
Lets make sure CMU never forgets. Lets name the dormitory to be built on the East Campus after Judith A. Resnick.
Resnick Hall would be a five story sign that the administration 
does indeed care about its students. Everyone, from the student 
government president to the second semester freshman, com
plains that the administration cares a lot about money and little 
about individuals, and maybe this claim isnt groundless... 
Hamburg Hall Vas the last building to be named; Lester A. Hamburg gave the most money.
Naming buildings after donors is not a bad idea  in cases 
except dorms. As a matter of fact, naming gifts should be 
encouraged in cases like the University Center. Alumni and 
corporations alike would be more willing to donate money if they had a building, a wing, or even a room dedicated to them.
But the dorm will be paid for, eventually, by the residents, 
students. The university isnt soliciting sponsors for the dorm so 
its a perfect candidate; Boss, McGill, and Scobell Halls were named after alumni killed in World War I.
Psychologically, giving .the new doim a name would help. 
Lets face it, after all the construction dates weve been given, 
sometimes its easy to believe the dorm will never be built. Its easier to believe Resnick Hall will be built over the new dorm. 
Even though this would be an alumni relations coup, its going to have to come from the student body. This editorial alone isnt 
going to convince anyone, but with the help of Student Senate, 
we can make sure no one ever asks Who was Judy Resnick?
Non-music majors need space
Last week a group of students gathered in a CFA elevator to 
practice their music  a new form of avant garde art? No, they could not find any other space in which to practice. The lack of practice space in CFA, especially for non-music majors, has 
been a perennial problem.At the current time, their are only two rooms, CFA 161 and 
184, in which non-music majors can practice. 115 non-music 
majors are taking music classes for credit, but still are not 
allowed access to adequate practice space. In addition, according to a policy set by the registrars office, these students must pay an additional $230 to $420 per semester on top of their 
regular tuition for private music lessons. Certainly, CFA is reasonable in giving a higher priority to music majors, but these 
students should receive the services for which they are paying. CFA has recently been given permission to use space in Margaret Morrison vacated by SUP A for 13 practice rooms, 
and 2 ensemble rehearsal rooms until these rooms are renovated and taken over by other departments, according to Denis Colwell, Associate Director, Music Extension Program. These rooms, however, will be allocated for use by music majors, and will not significantly help the situation for non-majors.Providing adequate rehearsal space for non-majors is the responsibility of CFA, and they are working with President Cyert towards alleviating the problem. On a wider scale, 
however, there are virtually no facilities on this campus for students with an interest in music, but who are not taking music 
classes to practice in.This is a problem the university should look into, especially 
in the wake of the current uproar concerning the quality of 
student life and the construction of the new University Center. 
Music, and other hobbies, can provide a great release for 
students, as well as fostering creativity and cultural develop
mentAt the present time, though, students are, for the most part, relegated to practicing in their dorm rooms, much to the chagrin of their neighbors. Space must be allocated for students to use 
for non-academic pursuits. Although this is a university, it is 
also a community and as such has a responsibility to provide for 
the needs of its residents.
Letters.
Coopers democracy called shortsighted
Editor:
Mr. Coopers article, A hard line 
for democracy may come too late 
[Tartan, Feb. 9], unfairly criticized 
Democratic presidents as being 
soft on communism and allowing 
other countries and our strategic 
interests in to them come under 
control of what he terms totalitarian and non-supportive interests. 
His chronology is.highly selective 
and left out the high points of post
war attempts by Democratic presi
dents to put entire populations 
under the control of totalitarian 
supportive regimes.
The chronology should begin with 
Truman!and his containment policy 
which, in 1948, led to support for the 
monarchist during the Greek civil 
war and the subsequent execution 
and interment without triaPfor thou
sands. Twenty years later (when 
Johnson was president) Greek de
mocracy took another leap forward 
with a U.S. backed coup that in
stalled a facist military regime.
The next Democrat to sit in the oval 
office was John Kennedy. His tenure 
in office was short but he left a 
legacy of supporting democracy 
around the globe. He sent aid to 
Diem and then to those who over
threw Diem in a coup (who were 
later abandoned by a Republican, 
Nixon). He also started the policy of 
bombing the South Vietnamese out 
of the country side and into concen
tration camps. Kennedy did not 
complain when a 1963 coup in 
Guatemala preceeded elections in 
that country. All this to. promote 
democracy or, failing that, to install 
and maintain totalitarian suppor
tive governments.
Johnsons years in office (suspi
ciously missing from Mr. Coopers 
account) are a virtual whats what of 
democracy. They began with the 
bombing of Laos in the early sixties 
and moved on to the whole scale 
bombing of North Vietnam and 
South Vietnam. In all the United 
States dropped about 7 million tons 
of bombs on Indochina. For the sake
of accuracy I must point out that We must not forget everybodys
some of the credit for the destruction 
does lie with Richard Nixon who de
cided Cambodia should not miss out 
on our technological terror from the 
skies.
Johnson, however, was interested 
in the big picture for democracy. The 
U.S. backed coup in Indonesia that 
upset the Sukarno government in 
1965 and subsequent killings of
100,000 Indonesians was one of his 
centerpieces of democracy. At
tempting to outdo himself, Johnson 
sent the Green Berets to Guatemala 
to aid in the massacre of 10,000 
Guatemalans during 1966-88.
favorite whipping boy, Jimmy Car
ter. While considered weak and inef
fectual by many we must not forget 
his administrations support (in
cluding arms) for Indonesia during 
its invasion of East Timor and the 
approximately 140,000 Timorese 
killed by Indonesian forces using 
equipment from the United States 
that had been sold for defensive 
purpose. Clearly the 140,000 people 
killed in the defense of Indonesian 
democracy was a legitimate use of 
U.S. manufactured weapons.
We can only guess that the abancontinued on page 12
Trailer proliferation on 
campus: will it ever end?
Editor:
The Student Senate recently held a 
referendum in which a significant 
majority of voters felt that a morato
rium should be placed on putting 
trailers on campus. The consensus of 
of the Student Senate was that the 
placement of trailers on campus is an 
important issue which merits imme
diate attention.
Through speaking with Mr. 
Keating and Mr. Elliot, both Glenn 
Kombrek and I have gathered much 
information regarding the trailer 
issue. The administrative view is 
that the trailers are necessary be
cause there is not enough space on 
campus. The student view is that you 
shouldnt allow departments to ex
pand beyond their capacity. If they 
do, they should have to deal with the 
consequences themselves. They 
sh6uld not be given trailers that in
fringe upon student space.
As I arri sure you are aware, Presi
dent Cyerts original policy state
ment regarding trailers on campus 
said they were intended to be tempo
rary. They can hardly be considered 
temporary when the space needed 
for the people using them will not be 
available in the foreseeable future.
While students are attending Car
negie Mellon, they would like to 
enjoy their stay. The benefits of 
having students enjoy their stay are 
numerous, the most important ad
vantage to the university being fu
ture alumni contributions. An inte
gral part of having an enjoyable stay 
here is to have a pleasant campus 
with grass, trees, fresh air, and a 
generally pleasant atmosphere. 
Unfortunately, some of the prettier 
parts of campus have been ruined 
merely because a department overexpanded.
Our research indicates that no aca
demic department has been denied 
trailers once they have been re
quested. This one-hundred percent 
approval record can only serve to 
further motivate departments to not 
just overexpand, but then ask for 
trailers on the premise that they need 
space.
We at the Campus Affairs 
Committee of Student Senate urge 
you to stop approving th use of 
trailers on campus.
Peter M. Zapf 
Student Senate 
Sophomore, ECE

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage 11
A case of A-Meesia
By ART BUCHWALD
The Centers for Disease Control have just 
announced a new health hazard. It is called AMeesia, known in medical circles as, Attor
ney Generals Disease.
Dr. Covey Extra, who discovered it, said AMeesia has reached 
epidemic proportions 
in the Justice Depart
ment and has even in
filtrated the Cabinet in 
the White House.
What are the symp
toms? I asked Dr.
Extra.
Loss of memory is 
the main one. The per
son is unable to remem
ber any details when 
testifying in regards to 
crimes involving him
self or his friends.He goes blank?
Completely, particularly when it has some
thing to do with the law. At these times he cant 
distinguish right from wrong.
Are you sure this is a new disease?
Im quite certain. I had an attorney general 
in the other day and I asked him to read a memo 
on the Iraqi pipeline. He couldnt do it. Then I 
handed him a paper concerning Wedtech and 
he said, I never saw this before.
What was wrong with that? I asked.
He had read it out loud in my waiting room 
an hour before. It was a textbook case of AMeesia. The man had lost all recollection of 
who and what he had been involved with in the 
last seven years.
It sounds like there is a pattern to the ill
ness.
If you lose your memory once, it is not 
serious. But when you continually lose it in 
public, then you are sick.
Can you contract A-Meesia from other 
people?
Thats the easiest way to get it. My patient 
confessed to me he was constantly having
financial relations with his friends.
Where have you witnessed the most cases 
of A-Meesia?
I saw a lot of it during the Irangate hearings. 
So many people were losing their memories 
we had to set up a MASH unit outside the Senate hearing room. 
Is there a cure? 
Some people in the 
Administration have 
been taking an aspirin 
every other day. But it 
hasnt stopped them 
from forgetting every
thing.
Suppose, I said, 
A-Meesia is psycho
somatic and people 
are pretending they 
have lost their memo
ries so they wont be 
indicted by a grand 
jury?We thought of that, but rejected it. A-Mee
sia is real disease and has to be dealt with as 
such. Thats why were doing a lot of work 
with rats. If we can find out why white rats 
forget, then we may discover why government 
lawyers do the same thing.
Do you have any leads?
We suspect it might be the asbestos in the 
Attorney Generals ceiling. But then again he 
might have caught A-Meesia when he was 
working as counselor to the President. We 
dont have much to work with. But we have to 
find an answer. There is nothing so sad as 
seeing an attorney general on the witness stand 
who doesnt know what time it is.
Im sure youll find a medical solution. ' 
Maybe, maybe not. I just received this 
specimen bottle from the Justice Department 
lab.
Whose is it?
Nobody over there can remember.
Art Buchwald is a syndicated columnist with 
the Los Angeles Times.And justice for Meese
By MICHAEL FRA^ZINI &
MICHAEL WITBROCK
The political career of Attorney General 
Edwin Meese, a career fraught with scandal 
since his appointment, may finally crumble 
under the weight of allegations of wrongdoing 
which have become more and more serious as 
they accumulate. The 
news released two 
weeks ago of Meeses 
cooperation in the Iraqi 
pipeline payoff 
scheme has probably elevated the public rec
ognition of blatant corruption and disregard 
for the law in Meeses justice department too 
far for the Attorney General to endure.
It is somewhat ironic, perhaps anti-climactic, 
that the relatively petty matter of Meeses role 
in the Iraqi pipeline scheme should end it all. 
It is even more ironic that the Attorney 
Generals misdeeds seem to be attracting more 
attention than the seven-year record of Presi
dential wrongdoings. However, the 
Presidents apparent immunity to recourse for 
his actions may be partly due to the efforts of 
Edwin Meese.
As Meese spokesman Patrick Korten ex
plained on the day the Iran-Contra affair be
came public, The Presidents longtime alter 
ego and California intimate was doing the 
thing he has always done best, protecting 
Ronald Reagan. Nobody does it better. (Vil
lage Voice, Feb. 9) Meese admitted, during 
the ensuing congressional hearings, that he 
was acting as legal advisor to the President 
while leading the investigation that could have 
revealed that the President broke the law.
The question remains whether Meese simply 
screwed up or participated in a concerted ef
fort to protect the President and the other play
ers in the Iran/Contra affair. Senator Warren 
Rudman expressed his opinion during the 
hearings, I tend to believe it was a case of 
gross incompetence. I guess its better to be 
dumb than crooked.
But the facts suggest that Meese may be 
crooked as well as dumb. Perhaps his choice 
of investigators, listed in the Tower Commis
sion report as two political appointees and 
one person from his personal staff, may have 
been mere incompetence. But the Attorney 
Generals reluctance to impound the files of 
the NSC, conveniently providing time for 
North to shred the particularly incriminating 
ones and alter others, should arouse suspicion. 
Meese offered the feeble defense that he had 
no evidence of criminal acts, but the Tower 
Commission disagreed: The Attorney 
Generals contention that he had no reason to 
believe there was any possible criminality 
involved is belied by the facts.
Even more serious is the fact that Meese 
interfered with an investigation begun in Janu
ary 1986 by the Miami U.S. Attorneys office 
into illegal gun smuggling to Nicaragua, an in
vestigation that probably would have exposed 
Norths Contra-supply activities. It seems 
unlikely that incompetence would produce a 
series of events so fortunate for Oliver North 
and the President.
As the events of the Iraqi Pipeline scandal 
unfold, it becomes clear that Meeses role as 
facilitator of illegal, covert foreign relations is 
not limited to relations with South America. 
The revelation of Meeses knowledge of 
bribes paid to foreign officials by his close 
friend and business cohort E. Robert Wallach 
demonstrates that Meese can extend his corThe facts of life at CMU
The following is the text of Andy 
Robitsheks speech to the Carnegie Mellon 
Board of Trustees last Monday.There are two points 1 would like to talk to 
you about. The first is the University Cen
ter; the second is the 
student body at
mosphere.
Every time I have 
spoken before you,
I have mentioned the University Center and 
its importance to todays and tomorrows 
students. The need for this center is very 
large. For example, 60% of all students live 
off campus. They usually come to the uni
versity at the beginning of the day and leave 
late in the evening. There is no central loca
tion, like a lounge, for them to meet, work, 
talk, or just relax, between classes and 
before they leave at the end of the day. The 
new University Center will help provide 
some of this space. Students know the new 
dorm must be built before the university 
center, but it must be the next building built. 
Dont let it slide behind other so-called 
pressing issues. The student body needs 
some form of commitment saying the Uni
versity Center will be built. They need a 
date that you will stick to.
My second point deals with the student 
body atmosphere. The students here have a 
tendency to complain about the workload, 
the pressure, the price of the school, and 
many other problems. The administration 
responds to this by publishing a report 
about the quality of student life, admitting 
that, yes, there are problems, but students 
are not worked any harder than at any other 
comparable school. But, there are some 
hard facts that need to be dealt with.
Fact: Most students are unhappy here 
with the administration. They feel they are 
taken advantage of in every opportunity, 
from $50 class books to a $12,000 tuition.
Fact: This atmosphere leaves with them 
when they graduate. It can be seen by the 
number of alumni who give to the school, as 
compared to comparable institutions. This 
number has only been improved by the hard 
work of the alumni office.
Fact: Last years senior banquet prob
lems occurred behind the one main theme. 
Students thought they were going to be 
taken advantage of again. (That is: this was 
one more time that CMU was reaching into 
the students wallet). This was not the real 
case but rather a student perception.
Fact: Students here have no school spirit. 
Football and basketball games are free, 
and still turnout is very small.
Things have to change. Dont jump the 
gun with PR dates. Give us absolute dates 
when things are going to be done. Realize 
we are a whole university, not just a re
search institution. When was the last time 
we had a major speaker of political impor
tance? We must be willing to spend a little 
more to bring them in. How about Henry 
Kissinger talking about todays foreign 
policy or Admiral Poindexter speaking 
about the Iran-Contra affairs? I will be the first to admit that changing the student at
mosphere is a two way street. I may not 
have all the solutions, but recognizing the 
problem is the first step.
Ive talked today about two main con
cerns of our student body. The first was 
that the University Center become a reality 
with a time schedule, for us to see. More 
and more students ask me when it will 
really be built and I honestly cant answer 
that. The communication between stu
dents and the administration is poor. In the 
past few years the faculty have improved 
their communication with the administra
tion. With your insistence, the administra
tion could take more of a notice of students 
and help make this an institution of higher 
learning, not just a research institute.
After reading this you may have ideas or 
suggestions. I have office hours 11:30- 
2:30 Tuesdays in the Senate Office, Skibo 
Room 59.
Andrew Robitshek
Student Government President
HERBLOCKS CARTOONThe Tartan
rupt hand as far as Israel, and the Attorney 
Generals role in securing federal contracts for 
Wallachs company, Wedtech, makes it clear 
that domestic affairs are not safe from the long 
arm of the lawbreaker.
Since, in this election year, it seems unlikely 
that Reagan can be made to pay for his crimes, 
the least we must demand is an indictment of 
Edwin Meese. Justice must finally be served 
upon this sleazy Presidential sycophant who 
has been corrupting the body of justice from 
within.
Editor-in-Chief................................Karl Barnhart
Managing Editor.............................Erika Peterson
Business Manager..........................Russ Seligman
News Editor...............................Eric W. Leuliette
Assistant News Editor.........................Chris Young
Features Editors.................................Howdy Pierce
Jud\ Haraburda
Sports Editor...........................................Josh Ruben
Assistant Sports Editor...................Stewart Levine
Diversions Editor..............................Michael Rose
Photo Assignment Editor................Andy (illespie
Photo Darkroom Editor................Albrecht Powell
Art Editor...................................(rant Carmichael
Literary Editor...........................Michele Osherow
Production Manager.................Dustin L. Frazier
Copy Editor.....................................David N. Levy
Contributing Editors............................................
Bruce Kasrel Neil Greenblum
Drue Miller Mark Benish
John Friedmann
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Metton University It is a weekly newspaper published by students each Tuesday during the faH and spnng semesters, at no cost to members of the university community It is printed by Typecraft Press Inc Subscriptions are available for $ 15 per semester $25 per year The Editorial appearing at the beginning of the opinion section is the official optrmn of The Tartan editorial board Column are the opinions o* individual author* who are not necessarily on The Tartan edrtona! board or staff LaMars to the Editor are opirvons of individual authors who are usuafty members of the University community A letter intended tor pubhcaBon must be signed and include the writer s address and phona number tor verification Names wiN be withheld upon request The Tartan reserves the nght to condense or r|ect any letter or column Copyright O 1968 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves tie ng to 
withhold from pubhcafion any copy it dssms unM tor pubhcalion
Office: Skibo 50 (412)266-2111 
Mailing address The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded m pari try the Activities Fee AH rights 
reserved Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanFebruary 16,1988
 - " 1
olume8el2 ,elIs1
LP8t,P'uiT.2e,6 ,u2e, Fui 8.7 ,ur1 P8 Vol
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
The hype, as they say, is back. Hope you 
don't want to see Moonlighting for the next 
three weeks, cause it ain't gonna be there. In
stead of Maddie and 
David bickering, 
you'll see the Swiss 
and East Germans 
racing in the biathaJon.
Yes, the Winter Olympics are back and ABC 
has paid $309 million to show us 97 hours of 
snow, ice, and body suits. Half the world will 
watch the games from Calgary, but it all seems 
to pale against this years Sports Illustrated 
swimsuit issue. Perhaps the Olympics would 
be more exciting if they were a little closer to 
home.
Can you imagine an Olympiad held at Car
negie Mellon? Remember how they com
plained about the Los Angeles Olympic Vil
lages? The Los Angeles Olympic Organiza
tion Committee refused to build one village for
all of the athletes. They instead were housed at 
USC and UCLA. Of course, if we held the 
Olympics we could put the athletes in the new 
dorm, if we ever have a new dorm.
Each host is allowed two or three demonstra
tion events. These are competitions the host 
country specializes in. Since no one else has 
heard of these sports, the host almost always 
wins. However, the medals dont count, so no 
one, not even the Soviets, care.
Imagine, just imagine the possibilities for the 
Carnegie Mellon Olympics. Can't think of 
any, can you? Thats not too surprising. This 
part took us hours to come up with also. After 
all, we could always have a buggy demonstra
tion, but Beta cant afford to break two trucks 
every year.
Thanks to Pika, we have the brand new trend 
of rat gazorching. The Humane Society proba
bly wouldnt approve, so weve altered the 
sport a tad. Instead of gazorching rats, we 
could launch Pika brothers. There would be 
the distance toss, a skeet shoot at a moving
7Clsa8rVnera 7C8la81
Kemp can solve our financial woes
By THOMAS A. HEIM
The budget deficit is one of the foremost 
issues of concern to the voters in the upcoming 
Presidential elections. Instead of the generali
ties about solutions to the deficit that are heard 
from the Democrats (in particular tremendous 
tax hikes to 40 and 50% plus), Republican con
tender Jack Kemp has offered a solid, feasible 
solution to meet the 
concern for this prob
lem. Jack Kemp in
tends to put the 
United States back onto the gold standard.
Prior to Richard Nixon, the U.S. dollar was 
pegged to gold at thirty five dollars per ounce. 
Since that time, the floating dollar has caused 
inflation and interest rates to rise overall and 
shoot up considerably on several occasions. It 
is inflation and interest rates particularly that 
drive up federal spending most.
In the quarter century prior to Nixon, the 
budget deficit was about 0.3 percent of the 
gross national product (GNP). After the gold 
standard was lifted, the deficit averages 3.7 
percent of the GNP. Inflation is a similar story, 
2.9 percent per year average prior to Nixon, 
6.7 percent since. Interest rates are also simi
lar, 10-year T-Bonds averaged 3.7% yield, 
mortgage rates 5.2% in the gold years, post
gold years T-Bonds averaged 9.2%, mort
gages 10.6%.
It is the problems with financing the deficit 
and compensating for inflation, not tax-cuts, 
that resulted in the deficits we have today. The 
208 billion dollar deficit in 1983 coincided 
with only 30 billion lost" in the tax cuts.
Research by the treasury department agrees: 
Michael Darby, assistant secretary for eco
nomic policy, writes, The business cycle and 
compounding high interest rates  not 
changes in tax structure or programmatic 
spending  are the causes of the major 1982- 
1983 jump in the federal deficit. His study 
showed that the interest rate portion of the 
deficit went from less that one percent of GNP 
before 1980 to 2.5 in 1983. The estimate is that 
only 17.5 percent of the budget deficit in 1987 
is due to an excess of real spending over real 
revenues; even this could probably be easily 
removed if pork like the $88 billion dollar 
highway bill were never passed.
Jack Kemp has the solution for the deficit, 
bringing the policy of the Federal Reserve 
back into responsibility by pegging the dollar 
to gold. It is real solutions like this, not Paul 
Simons incentive-killing tax hikes or Jesse 
Jacksons outright socialist programs that are 
going to solve our problems.
target, and finally a marksmanship event.
Wed tie one edge of the surgical tube to 
Porter Hall, and the other to Wean, and launch 
the Milk and Cookie Boys towards CFA. The 
first event would be the distance toss; 
whoevers brother lands the farthest away 
wins.
The skeet shoot event would be more inter
esting. Wed need a moving target, say a DU 
brother being chased by a fraternity (any fra
ternity would probably do) in front of CFA. 
Hitting the mob would be grounds for dis
qualification.
Next would be the stationary target. When 
the gang catches up to the DU, voila! Instant 
non-moving target. Whoever hits the DU with 
the most gazorched Pika brothers, wins.
The next event would be the blind steeple
chase. Contestants are placed on the first floor 
of a pitch-black Wean Hall. Each athlete 
would have to make it out of Wean alive, 
climbing over CS majors waiting for Andrew 
to come back on and lost ABM janitors.
There might also be the scream-a-thon. Pick 
your side, College Republican, or anti-Contra 
rabble-rouser. A substitute lecturer will be put 
in the ballroom. The Republicans win if they 
can keep him on stage long enough to finish his 
speech. The rabble-rousers win if they get on 
the 11 oclock news.
The final event would be trailer tipping. You 
sneak up on trailers in the middle of night, and 
tip them over while theyre asleep, and run 
away. Bonus points will be awarded for the 
number of grad students in the trailer when it 
happens. Tipping the trailer the long way earns 
double-super bonus points.
Of course holding the Olympics here would 
never work. Allen Greenberg would boycott 
the games if Aaron Solomon were allowed to 
participate and vice-versa. Worse, groups 
would probably pull out hours before the event 
because of CMUs Defense Department con
nections.
Its a real shame too. Wed miss The Student 
Unions special Olympics issue giving stars 
and weasels to the participating countries.
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, S. Markon, 
C. Williams, and R. Wilson. The authors are 
staffer iters with The Tartan.
O
ganna8s. iClnM
Cooper faulted
continued from page 10 
donment Mr. Cooper attributed to the 
Democrats was, in fact, directed at 
Jimmy Carter. This is simply not the 
case. The Carter Administration stood 
behind Somoza until his very last days 
and it is obvious to even the most casual 
observer how Carter abandoned the 
Shah of Iran by allowing him to come to 
the United States after he was over
thrown. It would, of course, be heresy to 
discuss his abandonment of the people 
of East Timor to their Indonesian invad
ers.
Mr. Coopers anaylsis 
of the past is so defective 
that his predictions for 
the future do not warrant 
consideration
Consider the value of a human life. 
Multiply that by a factor of 1 -2 million. 
We now have a simple calculus that lets 
us decide how much Democrats have 
valued democracy, stategic interests and 
the totalitarian supportive regimes 
that Mr. Cooper feels are so important. It 
is clear that the Democrats have been on 
the cutting edge of promoting these 
ideals since the second world war. One 
could find an equally large pool of blood 
under Republicans that was spilled dur
ing their attempts to promote democ
racy. Mr. Coopers analysis of the past is 
so defective that his predictions for the 
future do not warrant consideration. We 
can only hope that future policy makers 
will avoid supporting his kind of de
mocracy.
David Kahn
Graduate Student, Physics
GOTO 
MEDICAI SCI
Afr8rf
DLx
Find out how you can have yaar medical school tuition, required hoohs and 
fees paid ia fallplus eara more than $600 a month while yea attend school.
Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on the Armed 
Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program
We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physicians Scholarship from the 
Army, Navy or Air Force.
If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain 
valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as 
a commissioned officer in the Reserves.
After graduation, youll serve three years or moredepending on the Service 
you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receiveas a respected 
Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits 
and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical 
technology.
If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice 
and want to cut the expense of medical schoolsend for more information today.
j
j
j
j
W|f| Send me full details on how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program 
V can help cut my medical school expenses I meet the age requirements noted below 
I understand I am under no obligation 
Mail this coupon to Armed Forces Scholarships. P0 Boa 2865
Huntington Station. NY 11746 7102 9012
Check up to three ? Aray ? Navy ! Air Fwci
121-U fMfS * af*l IUU|Hfl d el lit H rt> < >
Please print a* mtormation clearly an4 lety
Name.Male Female
Apt #.
Cuy-z*l-3
L 1,1 I U1 LJ-1.IJ Sor Sec NoAna Code Wwmher
CoHege_____
Fwtdot Study.
cmmcnm
Birth Oat.LJLJ 1 J .1 t 1 )
Graduation Date Lm
rtM I<a rutar you lalicOnt provide w* be led Isr ftdwbnf purposes only Ike more complete  a MW bene* M can respond t* ioni quest (AHiorey 10 USC S03)
n 
j 
j 
j 
j
XI

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Scoop goes to the movies
I have long been an avid fan of the movies and over the 
years have amassed quite a bit of film lore. Did you know 
that Ronald Reagan, our President, was once a movie actor?
The first movie or film, Casablanca, was released in 
1943. It was an instant smash hit, making stars out of 
Humphrey Bogart, Ingrid Bergman, Claude Rains and the 
director, Steven Spielberg. The success of this film was not 
matched again until the release of Porky s early in this 
decade. Casablanca also played a crucial role in World War
60 SECONDS
II. Nazi spies managed to steal a copy of the film and the 
German High Command was was so taken with the beauti
ful Ingrid Bergman, and with Bogarts riveting perform
ance as Rick Blaine, that they often adjourned their staff 
meetings early in order to watch the movie time after time.
The efficiency of the German army thus impaired, it was 
less than a year before Victory over Europe day.
Although the first motion picture was made in America in 
1943, many of the ideas central to moviemaking were taken 
(as so many ideas have been) from the Ancient Roman 
culture. The most important of these borrowed ideas has 
blossomed into a central concept in contemporary films: the 
sequel. Every Saturday, Roman audiences would pack into 
the Coliseum to see the latest in a series: Death of a 
Christian III:The Lions Revenge or Having a Maul VI: 
The King of the Jungle and I. Thanks to this ahead-of-itstime civilization, we have had sequels to all major movies, 
such as Casablanca II: The Next Day.
An important ingredient in the movies has always been the 
elaborate stunts ^
staged for the
audiences Many of the ideas cencitementVrom tral to moviemaking were 
driving a bumtaken from the Ancient
ing car through Romiin ril|trP  a fireworks facKoman CUHUre.
tory to leaping
from an airplane without a parachute (see below), stunts 
have always made us gasp and squeal with delight. (Okay, 
okay, so Ive never squealed, but I can easily imagine 
someone squealing. In fact I think I heard someone do it 
once.) I have a personal anecdote which serves as an 
example of the movies curious ability to influence their 
audiences. After seeing Moonraker (James Bond XI, unless 
you count Casino Royale, which makes it James Bond XII), 
near the beginning of which James Bond is forced out of an 
airplane without a parachute. The scene was so exciting, and 
I gasped and squealed so much (at least I thought about 
squealing), that I knew leaping from an airplanes was for 
me. My mom said, How are you going to jump from an 
airplane with me hanging onto your leg? (She says this 
about a lot of things. When I had to register for the draft, it 
was How are you going to march with me hanging onto 
your leg? Then it was,How are you going to go away to 
college with me hanging onto your leg?) 1 assured her that 
I intended to wear a parachute, unlike James Bond, but this
continued on page 17
Chinese Year of 
the Dragon begins
By JOHN KYRIACOPOULOS
Tartan Staffwriter
February 17 marks the beginning of Lunar Year 4686, the 
year of the Dragon. For Orientals, this is a year to be filled with 
surprises and action resulting from the unruly spirit of the 
Dragon. It is revered as a promising time to get married, have 
children, or to embark upon new business ventures. Yet a little 
caution must always be exercised, for things may appear to be 
better than they really are and may get out of hand; we are ad
monished not to overestimate ourselves.
Some local Chinese groups have planned special events 
during the 15 day period in which the new year is customarily 
celebrated. The CMU Chinese Organization plans to hold its 
third annual Lion Dance on Friday February 19 in front of Doherty at 12:20 and 1:20 p.m. This is a traditional celebration 
that is also performed in New Yorks Chinatown. It consists of 
a two-person lion costume and slight orchestration provided by 
a drum and cymbals. Also, the organization is sponsoring a 
dance party in the Wherrett Room from 9:00 pm to 1:00 am on 
the following Saturday.
Another area group, the Organization of Chinese-Americans, 
is holding a Chinese New Year Banquet at the Pittsburgh 
Hilton and Towers Ballroom Saturday, February 20. Cocktails 
will be served, followed by a ten course Chinese dinner that will 
be supervised by Mt. Lebanon chefs George Lee and Joe Tsai. 
Entertainment will include an hour dance performance by the 
Chinese Dance Study Association, a New York City dance 
company. Also appearing are Miss Chen Min, an internation
ally-acclaimed ballet and folk dancer, and her Pittsburgh Ballet 
students preforming an original Chinese dance choreographed 
by Miss Chen Min. A Chinese fashion show is also scheduled. 
Cost is $25 per person, with seating at tables of ten. Groups or 
corporations may reserve a table for ten by calling Tiffany Pub
lishing at 833-8339. Individuals may call 833-2339.
The Chinese Student and Scholar Friendship Association and 
the National Association of Chinese Americans will present a 
Chinese musical preformance, dancing and refreshments at the 
Pitt Student Union Ballroom on Saturday February 27 from 
7:30-midnight. For ticket information and reservations call 
327-0783, 687-4970, 621-5022, or 621-6318. If youre inter
ested, check out some of these events. If not, just think Chinese. 
I know my roommate and I will be having a stir-fry this 
Wednesday.Sexy Body Parts: If youve got em, flaunt em
By MICHAEL ROSE
Tartan Diversions Editor
Stage fright, like seasickness, is hysterically 
funny only to the unafflicted. This is one of the 
cruel tricks the Universe plays on the foolish, 
the foolhardy, the fooled, the fools, and the 
participants in Scotland Yards Sexy Body 
Parts contest.
Volunteering to write an article about Sexy 
Body Parts seemed like a good idea at the time, 
but then again the Vietnam War, New Coke, 
and disco all sounded like good ideas, at the 
time. Piece o cake, I thought, I watch 
unbalanced exhibitionists embarass them
selves in public - for free, mind you - and all 
I do is take notes. This, for your information, 
happens to be My Idea Of Fun & A Great Way 
To Spend A Saturday Night.
So off I went, with my trusty newshound 
photographer Josh, to Scotland Yard. I was 
hoping for an unequalled journalistic opportu
nity - Josh was hoping for a few frames of 
cheap cheesecake. No problem.
I observed, as I made a quick pass by, into, 
and through the Ballroom, that most of the 
Sexy Body Parts (SBPs) known to CMU were 
in fact at AB Dances Reggae Beach dance 
with The Flow. 1 came upon two lovely ladies 
of my aquaintancp dancing painfully near the 
infamous AB Tech speaker towers as the band 
cruised through Marleys No Woman, No 
Cry. I asked Joanne and Sara (these are their 
real names because this is a true story, and 
besides only genuine simpering cowards 
change people's names in print), like I said, I 
asked Hillary and Susan if they were attending 
SBP at the Yard. They said that they were not 
planning on it, and left me alone by the mono
lithic, black speakers to ponder my fate.
After I recovered from a brief, near fatal bout
with suicidal depression, I went to the Yard 
and caught up with the eager, nay, the anxious 
Josh. He had secured us a table up in front, 
where we might catch every lurid detail. Hes 
very good about those things.
The show began, sort of. The Master of 
Ceremonies came out and asked for, of all 
things, volunteers to  get this  enter this 
contest where people stare at parts of your 
body and make killing comments. As one 
might expect, they werent exactly trampling 
each other in the mad rush to participate.
I mentioned to my trusty aide Josh that al
though the Yard was pretty full, there just 
wasnt a good solid contestant base. At first he 
didn't seem to hear me, but then he rounded 
quickly and shouted YOU! in my face.
Me? No, really, now, thats silly. I'm a jour
nalist and Ive got an article to write. Besides, 
I didn't want to show everybody my legs. Call 
me crazy. Still, Josh insisted.
Hmm.... I dunno.... Maybe there's something 
to this participatory journalism stuff after all? 
Okay, I said, Ill go for it. I was immediately 
escorted into the kitchen to wait with the other 
contestants. The sensation of leaving the 
world and entering the kitchen was like 
someone had taken all my clothing and turned 
it inside out without removing anything from 
my body, except entirely different.
I decided to make the best of the situation 
while I took off my pants and wrapped an 
apron about me. I loudly called out that I was 
a reporter doing an article. This, I have found, 
is conducive to conversation when both par
ties involved are not fully clothed. I chatted 
with Hans, Brian, and Lori, fellow Leg con
testants, and Dave and a woman whose name 
I do not recall (despite having introduced her 
to Hans  you know who you are) who were
simply Yarders and were not competing.
The procedure is simple: go out and show 
people your Part, be it Leg, Chest, or Butt. 
Contestant with the most applause wins a 
prize, which might well have been a hearty 
helping of the pineapplesauce sitting in a bowl 
in the kitchen. We werent concerned with the 
reward; it was the panic we wanted.
Why were people involved in this event? For 
me, I just wanted my article, and objectivity be 
damned. For Hans, he had a very tough week 
and just wanted to let everything hang loose. 
Lori was competing on a whim, thats all. 
Brian was the bartender, and felt obligated to 
compete with us  an unusual response, as 
the three words from most Yarders were not I
am willing but No, Im working.
Dave. Yard Supervisor Pro Hoc (or Ad Tem, 
he wasn't clear) put it in perspective. It's 
silly, but realize that its supposed to be silly. 
My actual trial on display is too embarassing 
to relate, but suffice it to say I was defeated by 
a man wielding the limb of a lab skeleton. I 
slunk back to the kitchen in shame.
I dont know... people say its a way to let 
go, but when I relax I like to do it with one 
person, said one young lady not competing, 
despite entreaties from male friends. 1 don't 
enjoy the prospect of exposing my body parts 
to a large group of people." Apparently much 
of the fun is involved in trying to convince
continued on page 19
r _ by Josh Ruhen
Josh says, "It was a contest of bravery and chutzpah rather than sex and eroticism." and 
added, "I want a raise next vear!"

---------------------------------------------------

CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
Final Examination Policy and ScheduleCHEMISTRYOffice of the RegistrarSpring, 198809104CH ASP ORG BIO MTLTUEMAY31:30-4:30PMWEH 750009105MODERN CHEMISTRY ITHUMAY51:30-4:30PMDH1212POLICY09106MODERN CHEMISTRY IIMONMAY95:30-8:30PMWEH 750009117ORGANIC CHEMISTRY ITHUMAY55:30-8:30PMDH1112The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of09144PHYSICAL CHEMISTRYTUEMAY38:30-11:30AMWEH 5403final examinations for the Undergraduate courses:09218ORGAN CHEMISTRY IIMONMAY95:30-8:30PMDH1212,09246PHYSCL CHEMISTRY IIFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMMM141.all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;09248INORGANIC CHEMISTRYTUEMAY38:30-11:30AMWEH 542709441NUCLEAR & RADIOCHEMWEDMAY118:30-11:30AMDH12122.the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for09502ORGNC CHEM POLYMERSMONMAY91:30-4:30PMDH2122exam purposes of any kind;09731NUCLEAR & RADIOCHEMWEDMAY118:30-11:30AMDH121209741ORGNC CHEM POLYMERSMONMAY91:30-4:30PMDH21223.faculty shall not exert or submit to pressures to move an exam sothat people can leave earlier.CIVILENGINEERING
4.no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given12110INTRO ENGR ECONMONMAY91:30-4:30PMSH125finals day; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving12208DYNAMICSTHUMAY51:30-4:30PMPH19Cconflicts;12212SOLID MECHANICSTUEMAY38:30-11:30AMPH19C12315MATERIALSTUEMAY31:30-4:30PMPH125B5.no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;12325SOIL MECHANICSFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMPH125B12602SYS ANALY CIV ENGRTHUMAY58:30-11:30AMPH125B6.papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;12621STRUCTURAL MECH IIMONMAY98:30-11:30AMPH125B12632WATER RESOURCE ENGRWEDMAY111:30-4:30PMPH125B7.take-home final exams shall be given for any 24-hour period of the12635WATER QUALITY ENGRTHUMAY55:30-8:30PMPH115student's choosing during the final exam period.12640CMPTR-AID TOOLS C ETHUMAY51:30-4:30PMPH125B12705PROJ MGT CONSTRUCTNFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMPH19ANOTE: COMPLAINTS ABOUT VIOLATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION POLICY OR12724ADV TPC AIR POLLUTNTHUMAY58:30-11:30AMPH126AALTERATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SHOULD BE DIRECTED12726MATH MDL ENV QUA SYFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMPH115TOTHE APPROPRIATE DEPARTMENT HEAD.12783SOIL DYNAMICSMONMAY91:30-4:30PMPH19C
THIS FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE IS ALSO FOUND ON THE ANDREW AND TOPS BBOARD COMPUTER SCIENCESYSTEMS UNDER "REGISTRAR-INFORMATION".15200SRV PRGMNG MTH APPLMONMAY9830-11:30AMWEH 542715211FUND STRUC CMP SC ITUEMAY10130-4:30PMDH 2315BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES15212FUND STRC CMP SC IIMONMAY9830-11:30AMPH 10015312PROG LANG DES PROCTHUMAY5830-11:30AMWEH 750003121MODERN BIOLOGYTHUMAY55:30-8:30PMDH221015381ARTFL INT RP PR SLVMONMAY9830-11:30AMPH 125C03230GENETICSMONMAY98: 30-11:30AMADAMSON15385VISIONTUEMAY3830-11:30AMMM 1403244EXP TCH IN BIOCHEMMONMAY91:30-4:30PMSH22015411COMPILER DESIGNTUEMAY3130-4:30PMMM 10303332BIOCHEMISTRY IIWEDMAY118:30-ll:30AMDH210515412OPERATING SYSTEMSTHUMAY5530-8:30PMWEH 750003350DEVELOPMNTL BIOLOGYTUEMAY38:30-ll:30AMDH121715413SOFTWARE ENGINEERNGTHUMAY5130-4:30PMPH 125C03441MOL BIO PROKARYOTEFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMDH121715451APPLIED ALGORITHMMONMAY9130-4:30PMPH 125C15499STRUC PRGM PRG PROVMONMAY9830-11:30AMWEH 6423CHEMICALENGINEERINGUNIVERSITYSTUDIES06152TRANSORT PROCESS IFRIMAY68:30-ll:30AMADAMSON06202UNIT OPERATIONSWEDMAY111:30-4:30PMDH121299751FRML MTHD SFTWR ENGWEDMAY11830-11:30AMSEI STUDIO06304ECON & OPTIMIZATIONMONMAY98:30-ll:30AMDH111206606COMPUTATIONAL MTHDSMONMAY91:30-4:30PMDHA31706607PHYS CHEM COLL SURFTHUMAY55:30-8:30PMMM10306702ADVANCED KINETICSFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMDH1112
STATISTICS
36210PRB AP STA MG SS IIMONMAY95:30-8:30PMDH2210, HH B103,HHB131H&SS INTERDISCIPLINARYPROGRAM36212PRB AP ST PH SSE IIMONMAY95:30-8:30PMPH126A36219STAT MTH DATA AN ITHUMAY55:30-8:30PMPH225C66315HOLOCAUST TW IN UNDTHU MAY 58:30-11:30AMPH125C36226INTRO PRB & STAT IIMONMAY95:30-8:30PMPH10036326PROB & MATH STAT IITUEMAY31:30-4:30PMPH126CINDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT36410ELEM APPL PROBABLTYTHUMAY55:30-8:30PMPH125C36714TIME SERIES IITHUMAY55:30-8:30PMPH126A70101ELEM INDUSTRL ADMINWED MAY 118:30-11:30AMDH221070121FINANC ACCOUNTINGCIT INTERDISCIPLINARYPROGRAMA,BTHU MAY 58:30-11:30AMDH221039300ANALY SYNTH & EVALU' 1CTHU MAY 58:30-11:30AMMM103ATHUMAY58:30-ll:30AMDH1211DTHU MAY 58:30-11:30AMADAMSON70160INTR GRA CMNCTNS IMON MAY 98:30-11:30AMSH125BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING 70312 ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR II FRI MAY 6 8:30-11:30AM PH 225C70332 GOVRNMNT & BUSINESS42100INTR TO BIOMED ENGRFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMDH2105ATUEMAY38:30-11:30AMWEH 750042501PHYSIOLOGYTUEMAY 105:308:30PMDH1212BTUEMAY38:30-11:30AMPH12 5C42604BIO TRNS PHRMCKNTCSFRIMAY68:30-ll:30AMDH121170361FOUNDATIONS OF LAWTHUMAY55:30-8:30PMMM1442624ADV TPC AIR POLLUTNTHUMAY58:30-11:30AMPH126A70363LAW MDRN AMER SOCTUEMAY101:30-4:30PMDH221042644MEDICAL DEVICESFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMPH225C70371PRODUCTION I42652MUSCULOSKEL BIOMECHMONMAY95:30-8:30PMSH422B,CTHUMAY51:30-4:30PMDH221042680BIOINST BIOINF PROCFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMDH210570381MARKETING IBTUEMAY31:30-4:30PMPH12 5CARCHITECTURECTUEMAY31:30-4:30PMADAMSON70391FINANCE I48115STATICSFRIMAY68:30-ll:30AMMM103BFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMMM10348142ARC HIS I EUR ARCHTUEMAY35:30-8:30PMMM103CFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMPH125C48144EARLY RENAISS ARCHTUEMAY38:30-11:30AMCFA 211DFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMADAMSON48215STRUCTURESMONMAY91:30-4:30PMMM10370422COST ACCOUNTINGTUEMAY35:30-8:30PMWEH 750048321PSYCH OF HABITATIONFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMDH121270453SYST ANALY & DESIGNMONMAY95:30-8:30PMPH125C70481MARKETING IIDRAMAAMONMAY91:30-4:30PMMM14BMONMAY91:30-4:30PMBH235B54382DRAMA LITERATURE IITUEMAY31:30-4:30PMPH2054786COLLOQUIUMTUEMAY31:30-4:30PMMM14ECONOMICS
MUSIC73100PRINC OF ECONOMICSA-ETUEMAY35:30-8:30PMDH221057100HARMONY NON-MAJORSWEDMAY118:30-ll:30AMMM127F-MTUEMAY35:30-8:30PMDH231557101SOLFEGE NON-MAJORSFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMMM12773250INTERMED MICROECON57102EURHYTHMICS NON-HAJFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMMM127AWEDMAY118:30-11:30AMPH10057103HSTRY MUSIC NON-MAJFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMCFA 160BWEDMAY118:30-11:30AMADAMSON57109ELEMENTARY THEORYFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMCFA 160CWEDMAY118:30-11:30AMPH2057122GERMAN DICTIONWEDMAY118:30-ll:30AMCFA 15773300INTERMED MACRECON57162EURHYTHMICS IITUEMAY38:30-ll:30AMMM119A,BMONMAY98:30-11:30AMWEH 750057173SURV WSTRN MUS HISTTHUMAY51:30-4:30PMCFA 160CMONMAY98:30-11:30AMMM10357176SOLFEGE MUS THEA IIMONMAY98:30-11:30AMMM12773358ECO ENVRN N*TUR RESTUEMAY108:30-11:30AMPH10057182SOLFEGE IITUEMAY35:30-8:30PMCFA 127, MM 12773360ECONOMETRICSTHUMAY58:30-11:30AMPH10057203RENAIS BAROQ MUSICMONMAY91:30-4:30PMCFA 16073458MONEY AND BANKINGFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMPH1005720519TH t 20TH C MUSICFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMCFA 16073476AMER ECONOMIC HSTRYTHUMAY55:30-8:30PMPH19C57223THEORYTUEMAY38:30-ll:30AMCFA 16073477STR ECON  POLITICSTUEMAY35:30-8:30PMPH125C5725516TH C COUNTERPOINTFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMMM11673478MONEY 6 FIN MARKETSWEDMAY118:30-11:30AMPH225C5725820TH CENT TECHHQUESWEDMAY111:30-4:30PMCFA 11057300ROOTS ROCK & ROLLFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMCFA 15757323THEORYTHUMAY55:30-8:30PMCFA 15757344IMSTR MTH BR/PER/WWTUEMAY311:30-1:30PMCFA 16057345INSTR MTHDS STRINGTHUMAY54:30-6:30PMCFA 160

---------------------------------------------------

GELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERINGMECHANICAL ENGINEERING
o
0
o
eioiLINEAR CIRCUITSWEDMAY11130-4:30PMDH221018102INTRO ELEC DEV CIRCTUEMAY3130-4:30PMDH221018113FUND OF ELEC ENGRTHUMAY5530-8:30PMHHB103,18133INTR TO DIGITAL SYSFRIMAY6830-11:30AMPH10018218SIGNALS & SYSTMS IITUEMAY3830-11:30AMDH231518222AN DES DIG INT CIRCFRIMAY6830-11:30AMDH231518304FLDS WAVE TRN LINESTUEMAY3130-4:30PMSH22018310FUND COMMUNCTN SYSTTHUMAY5830-11:30AMHHB13118314CMPTR CNTRL SYS DESTHUMAY5130-4:30PMHH130718334SEMICNDCT DEVICES ITHUMAY5530-8:30PMSH12518341'ELECTROMECHANICSFRIMAY6130-4:30PMHHB10318349CNCUR REAL TIME SYSTUEMAY3530-8:30PMPH10018354APPLIED MAGNETICSWEDMAY11130-4:30PMSH22018702FIN EL METH EL ENGRMONMAY9830-11:30AMDH212218742CMPTR STR PERF EVALWEDMAY11830-11:30AMHHB13118772MULTIVAR CNTRL SYSTTHUMAY5530-8:30PMHHB103,18784PATTERN RECOGNTN THFRIMAY6830-11:30AMWEH 5403
c
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC POLICY
19100TECHNOLOGY & PEOPLEMONMAY95:30-8:30PMDH231519319LAW & THE ENGINEERMONMAYo5:30-8:30PMSH12519420CHM TCH ENVRN & SOCFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMPH125C19435TCHNLGCL ASSESS SDIWEDMAY111:30-4:30PMPH126A19445TECH EVOLU & REVOLUTUEMAY35:30-8:30PMBH235B
MATHEMATICS
21111CALCULUS IFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMWEH 750021112CALCULUS IITHUMAY55:30-8:30PMDH2315,21121CALCULUSFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMMM10321122CALCULUS & LIN ALGMONMAY98:30-11:30AMDH2210,DH121221127INTRO TO MDRN MATHFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMDH2210,21235MATHMTCL STUDIES IFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMWE542721257OPTMZTN FOR SOC SCITUEMAY108:30-11:30AMDH221021259CALCULUS IN 3-DFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMDH2210,21260DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMDH2210,DH121221292OPERATIONS RSCH IMONMAY91:30-4:30PMPH10021301COMBINATORIAL ANALYTUEMAY35:30-8:30PMDH111221341LINEAR ALGEBRATHUMAY51:30-4:30PMPH10021369NUMERICAL METHODSTUEMAY38:30-11:30AMMM10321372PART DIFF EQUATIONSTUEMAY108:30-11:30AMWEH750021455ADVANCED CALCULUSTHUMAY58:30-11:30AMWEH542721473ALGEBRAIC STRUCTFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMDH231521480INTRO MECH CONTINUAFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMWEH642321484APPL GRAPH THEORYWEDMAY111:30-4:30PMDH231521700MATHEMATCL LOGIC IITUEMAY38:30-11:30AMWEH5205
HH B131
HH B131
DH 1212
DH 1212
DH 1112 DH 2315,
24112FLUID MECHANICSMONMAY91:30-4:30PMHHB103,HHB13124121THERMODYNAMICSTHUMAY58:30-11:30AMSH12524141STATICS 6 DYNAMICSTUEMAY31:30-4:30PMSH42224202MECH DFRMBL SOLIDSWEDMAY111:30-4:30PMHHB103,HHB13124215POTENTL FLOW AERODYTUEMAY35: 30-8:30PMSH20624216GAS DYNAMICSMONMAY91:30-4:30PMADAMSON24233HEAT TRANSFERTUEMAY38:30-11:30AMSH12524246FEEDBK CNTRL SYSTMSFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMHHBIO 3,HHB13124249DYNAMICS & VIBRATNSFRIMAY6 8:30-11:30AMSH125
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
27131
2720127215273222733227442275302753227552277582778027781 27783
INTRO MATERIALS SCIA THU MAY 5 1B THU MAY 5 1MATERIALS I MON MAY 9 1THERMODYNAMICS FRI MAY 6 1PROCESS METALLURGY WED MAY 11 8PHYS METALLURGY II WED MAY 11 1PLAST FRAC OF MTLS FRI MAY 6 8PHY MET ALLOY STEEL THU MAY 5 1MTL ASP SMCND DV II MON MAY 9 8CERAMICS & GLASSES TUE MAY 3 1PHY MATH MDL MAT PR THU MAY 5 8THERMODYNAMICS MON MAY 9 5TRANSPORT TUE MAY 3 5PHASE TRANSFORM II TUE MAY 3 5
PHYSICS
30-4:30PM 30-4:30PM 30-4:30PM 30-4:30PM 30-11:30AM 30-4:30PM 30-11:30AM 30-4:30PM 30-11:30AM 30-4:30PM 30-11:30AM 30-8:30PM 30-8:30PM 30-8:30PM
DH 2315 WEH 7500 WEH 5205 DH A317 DH A317 DH A317 DH 1209 DH A317 WEH 5205 WEH 5205 DH A317 DH A317 DH 1212 DH A317
33113PHYS MUSICAL SOUNDMONMAY95:30-8:30PMMM 10333116INTRODUCT PHYSICSFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMWEH 750033121PHYSICS I MECHANICSAWEDMAY118:30-ll:30AMHH B103BWEDMAY118:30-11:30AMPH 126B33122PHYSICS II HT WV OPTUEMAY31:30-4:30PMDH 2315, DH 1112, HH B103,
DHPHHH33123PHYSICS III EL MAGTHUMAY58:30-ll:30AMDH 231533125INTRO TO ASTRONOMYWEDMAY111:30-4:30PMDH 111233131PHYSCL MECHANICS IITUEMAY31:30-4:30PMWEH 542733134MODERN PHYSICS IMONMAY91:30-4:30PMWEH 542733438INTRM ELEC & MAG IITUEMAY35:30-8:30PMWEH 542733442INTRO STAT PHYSICSTUEMAY31:30-4:30PMWEH 731633446WAVE MECHANICSFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMWEH 540333448INTRO SOLID ST PHYSTHUMAY58:30-11:30AMWEH 642333454PHYSICS OF CONTINUAMONMAY95:30-8:30PMWEH 842733756QUANTM MECHANICS IITUEMAY38:30-ll:30AMWEH 731633760INTRO THEO PHYS IIFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMWEH 731633761CLASSCL ELCTRODYN IWEDMAY111:30-4:30PMWEH 8427
1212,
ENGLISH76101 READING TEXTSPHILOSOPHYCWEDMAY111:30-4:30PMPH19AIWEDMAY111:30-4:30PMPH19C76230BBLCL MYTH BKGR LITFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMBH237B76241DISCOURSE HST CHNGATHUMAY58:30-11:30AMPH225CBTHUMAY58:30-11:30AMBH235B76242RDG 20TH-C CULTUREATHUMAY51:30-4:30PMPH115BTHUMAY51:30-4:30PMBH235A76244SHAKESPEARETUEMAY108:30-ll:30AMADAMSON76351H JAMES & TRANSCENDWEDMAY118:30-11:30AMBH255A76352AMERICAN POETRYMONMAY98:30-11:30AMBH255A76411MEDIA STUDIESTUEMAY35:30-8:30PMPH19C76431KAFKAFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMBH231A76441CHAUCER & 14TH CENTMONMAY91:30-4:30PMBH255A76442EARLY 17 C NEW HISTTHUMAY55:30-8:30PMBH255B76751H JAMES S. TRANSCENDWEDMAY118:30-ll:30AMBH255A76752AMERICAN POETRYMONMAY98:30-11:30AMBH255A76811MEDIA STUDIESTUEMAY35:30-8:30PMPH19C76841CHAUCER & 14TH CENTMONMAY91:30-4:30PMBH255A76842EARLY 17 C NEW HISTTHUMAY55:30-8:30PMBH255B
79100
7910479106791207912279209792147921979221792267922879238792407925279253 79301 79321 79324 79328 79331 79336 79344 793487935479355 79366 793717938879389 79448
HOW HISTORIANS THNKABCINTRO TO WORLD HIST RACE AND GENDER DEV OF AMER SOCIETY EUR AMER COMP PERSP TRAD CHNG IN TURKEY MODERN JAPAN ETHNOGRAPHIC FILM HSTRY AMER URB LIFE TCHNLGY WSTRN CIV RELIG SOC CMPR PERS POVERTY & THE SELF AUTOMOBILE AMER CIV NEW TPCS SOC HSTRY AMER FOR POL S 1945 DATA MGT APPL HSTRY WOMEN IN AMER HSTRY AFRO-AMER HIST II DISEASE & HISTORY MODERN CHINA HISTORY & FICTION HSTRY MDRN WARFARE EUROPEAN CITIES VIETNAM AM LOST WAR POSTWAR GERMANY EUROP CULT LIFESTYL SOV UN SINCE STALIN WAR AND TECHNOLOGY CITY 6 TECHNOLOGY SEM IN APPL HISTORY
HISTORY
TUE MAY TUE MAY TUE MAY MON MAY TUE MAY MON MAY FRI MAY THU MAY MON MAY FRI MAY WED MAY TUE MAY THU MAY TUE MAY TUE MAY FRI MAY TUE MAY FRI MAY THU MAY MON MAY FRI MAY MON MAY FRI MAY TUE MAY THU MAY TUE MAY THU MAY TUE MAY MON MAY WED MAY FRI MAY TUE MAT
35:30-8:30PMBH237B35:30-8:30PMPH126C35:30-8:30PMPH126A91:30-4:30PMDH2210, DH 2315108:30-11:30AMDH121298: 30-11:30AMBH235B61:30-4:30PMBH229B58:30-11:30AMBH235A91:30-4:30PMDH121761:30-4:30PMPH20118:30-11:30AMMM310A101:30-4:30PMADAMSON51:30-4:30PMPH19A101:30-4:30PMPH225C35:30-8:30PMPH225C61:30-4:30PMBH254A108:30-11:30AMBH229B61:30-4:30PMPH126A55:30-8:30PMPH225B95:30-8:30PMBH255A61:30-4:30PMPH226C95:30-8:30PMPH125B61:30-4:30PMPH125B108:30-11:30AMPH125C55:30-8:30PMPH126B105:30-8:30PMADAMSON51:30-4:30PMBH231A31:30-4:30PMPH19A91:30-4:30PMPH20118:30-11:30AMPH2168:30-11:30AMHBH 100331:30-4:30PMPH19C
80100PHILOS MTH & MORALSTHUMAY55:30-8:30PMPH100,80280INTRO TO LING ANALYTUEMAY31:30-4:30PMPH2180311LOGIC ARTFCL INTELLFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMPH126A
MODERN LANGUAGES
82102ELEMENTARY FRENCHTUEMAY31:30-4:30PMPH226B82103PROGRAMMED FRENCHTUEMAY105:30-8:30PMPH125C82122ELEMENTARY GERMANTUEMAY101:30-4:30PMPH125B82123PROGRAMMED GERMANFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMPH226C82142ELEMENTARY SPANISHFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMPH226C82143PROGRAMMED SPANISHTUEMAY101:30-4:30PMPH125C82162ELEMENTARY ITALIANFRIMAY68:30-11:30AMBH231B82163PROGRAMMED ITALIANMONMAY95:30-8:30PMPH19A82172ELEMENTARY JAPANESETUEMAY105:30-8:30PMPH126B82202INTERMEDIATE FRENCHFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMBH231A82203INTER PRGRMD FRENCHTUEMAY105:30-8:30PMPH225C82222INTERMEDIATE GERMANWEDMAY118:30-11:30AMPH226B82242INTERMED SPANISHTUEMAY101:30-4:30PMPH226C82262INTERMED ITALIANTUEMAY31:30-4:30PMPH225B82272INTERMED JAPANESEMONMAY98:30-ll:30AMPH226C82302FRENCH CONVER COMPFRIMAY65:30-9:30PMPH226B82322GERMAN CONVER COMPTHUMAY51:30-4:30PMPH226B82409FRENCH LIT 19TH CTHUMAY58:30-ll:30AMPH226C82429GERMAN LIT 19TH CFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMBH237B82456ST SPAN LAT AM LITFRIMAY61:30-4:30PMPH226B
PSYCHOLOGY
85100COG PROC THEO PRACTUEHAY105:30-8:30PNDH221085110INT TO SYMBOL COMPFRIMAY61:30-4:30PNPH2 2 SC85211COGNTV PSYCHOLOGYWEDMAY118:30-11:30AMPH12SC85221PRINC CHILD DVLPMNTWEDMAY111:30-4:30PNADAMSON85241SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGYMONMAY98:30-11:30ANPH225C85251PERSONALITYTHUMAY51:30-4:30PNPH225C85261ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGYTUEMAY101:30-4:30PNPH10085281INTRO CLINICAL PSYTUEMAY31:30-4:30PNBH336B85310RSCH MTHDS COG PSYMONMAY91:30-4:30PNBH340A85320RSCH MTHD DEV PSYCHTHUMAY58:30-ll:30ANBH336B85423COGNITIVE DEVELPMNTFRIMAY61:30-4:30PNBH340A85447PSYCH INCOH DEC MKGWEDMAY118:30-ll:30ANPH19C85448JUDGMNTL SURV STRATTHUMAY55:30-8:30PNPH223D85723COGNITIVE DEVELPMNTFRIMAY61:30-4:30PNBH340A
SOCIALAND DECISIONSCIENCES
88103DECISION MAKINGTUEMAY38:30-ll:30ANDH2210,88201DATA BASE MGMNT SYSTUEMAY35:30-8:30PNADANSON88221POLICY ANALYSIS IIFRIMAY65:30-9:30PNADAMSON88301PSYCH INCOH DEC MKGWEDNAY118:30-ll:30ANPH19C88303JUDGMNTL SURV STRATTHUMAY55:3O-0:3OPNPH223D88425REGULATORY PROCESSMONNAY91:30-4:30PNPH223D88701PSYCH INCOH DEC MKGWEDHAY118:30-ll:30ANPH19C88711JUDGMNTL SURV STRATTHUNAY55:30-8:30PNPH223D

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanFebruary 16,1988
He v. LCB!How to pick a drunk out of a crowd
Dear Specs,
How can you tell if someone is drunk? There 
are times I have heard people say they cant be 
responsible for things that have happened 
because they were drunk. It would be a great 
help if I knew what constituted this condition, 
so I could recognize the upcoming exemption
clause prior to its actual occurence. Thanks.The Interests of Science
Dear Interests,
Everybody should be able to recognize a
Ask Specs
By Sara Flynn

__
drunk on sight, not only for future reference 
but also for health and safety reasons. There 
are mo kinds of drunks: drunk boys and drunk 
girls. The distinguishing signs of a drunk boy 
include
1. A guffaw replaces his ordinary chortle.
2. He hugs his male friends frequently.
3. He tells long stories about previous 
drunken exploits.
4. He spills beer on moving targets with great 
deliberation.
5. He sees double and feels single.
A drunk girl has a completely different ap
pearance:
1. She has to dance.
2. When she sees other girls she behaves as if
she has endured a 10-year separation from 
them: this apparently justifies high pitched 
shrieks and loving embraces.
3. A perpetual giggle adheres itself to her 
conversations.
4. When she is speaking to an attractive boy 
she has a tendency to fix pieces of his hair that 
appear out of place: she will lean at an un
usual angle and tug on his sleeve or arm.
There are other ways to recognize a drunk, 
regardless of gender. Do they look boiled, 
fried, sodden, stewed, stinky, trashed or 
wasted? Would you describe them as  tighter 
than a drum, tight as a tick, or tight as an
There are two kinds of 
drunks: drunk boys and drunk 
girls. The distinguishing signs 
of a drunk boy include...a guf
faw replaces his ordinary 
chortle....
owl ? Perhaps they resemble a sow's ear or a 
skunk, both common description of drunks.
If you see a person who is consuming an 
alcoholic beverage, or series of beverages, in 
the manner which is used by a fish (e.g. he/ 
she drinks like a fish") you can safely assume 
that they will become fairly inebriated hence: 
the creation of drunk.
Dear Specs,
I also want to know what to do when this 
person says that he/she doesnt remember the 
activities of the previous evening, even worse, 
doesnt appear to recognize you.
Interests in Sociology
Dear Interests,
Go up to this person or persons and reintro
duce yourself. Then give them a detailed ac
count of the alleged evening. Dont stick to the 
facts, in the case of the Memory Lapse. 
Make up a whole new evening and include 
various landmarks they will remember. Em
broider these with fiction. Use quoteswords 
like committment, love and forever 
will get a big reaction from the victim. This is 
a very effective way of establishing a bond 
betneen the two of you.
By the way, this type of socializing seems to 
present many additional complications in 
your life.
Have you ever thought about making new 
friends at tea time? Teas are very chic this year 
and few problems ensure the following day 
from too many scones or anchovy toasts.
Sincerely, Specs 
Dear Specs,
What should you do if you like your roommates beau? What if you think he likes 
you too? How about if you like your beaus 
roommate? What if your roommate likes your 
beau?
What-to-do
Dear What-to-do,
Dont panic.
Just remember this,
if you cuddle with your roommates beau,
you'd better get packed and ready to go.
If she dates your honey
it isnt quite as funny
But if you kiss your mans roommate,
You will never get a second date.
Or take the advice of Run DMC and Dont 
Dolt.
Sincerely, Specs
How-to guide: 
Caring for 
contacts
By TERENCE SPIES
Tartan Staffwriter
Contact lenses are the decision that all 
of us vision corrupted people are going 
to have to make someday. A near 
mythos surrounds the items, with their 
daily rituals and numerous mysterious 
potions. What are the facts about these 
little devices? Who can wear them? 
Who should wear them? Are they hard 
to use? Knowing some facts can make a 
decision easier and ward off problems 
ranging from scratched eyes to a syn
drome that mimics Herpes simplex.
The contact lens has come a long way 
since it was first used in the early 
1800s, a crude glass version that never 
caught on. With the advent of plastics in 
the 30s, a popular version was in
vented, called the scleral lens. It cov
ered the entire eye, and required a con
stant application of tearing solution. 
Modem lenses, pioneered in the 70s, 
cover only the cornea and are made of a 
highly gas permeable plastic. Permeablity is important because the eye has no 
blood vessels and must breathe. The 
newest type of lens, developed by Dr. 
Herb Kaufman, is a surgically applied 
piece of frozen cornea.
Modem contact lenses can correct 
most optical maladies, from simple 
myopia (nearsightedness) to mild astig
matism. There are even bifocal contacts 
for correcting near and far vision prob
lems. The only condition that excludescontinued on page 21
o
b
x2903 Offers Delivery In 60 Seconds or Less
Let your telephone bring you the latest 
information on Campus News and Events.
Public Relations new 24-hour phone line (x2903) provides up-to-the-minute information on campus activities:
 Sports schedules
 Fine Arts plays, art shows
 Lectures and movies
 Campus news and university announcements
Dial 2903 
24 hours a day

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage 17
faTwo thumbs up for 007
continued from page 15 
did not appease her. To this day I 
have a repressed desire to jump from 
an airplane thanks to Roger Moores 
stunt double.
At this point, Id like to take a brief 
excursion into a less well-know area 
of contemporary film: the adult 
movie. Following is a list of some 
existing adult movies. I am not 
making any of these titles up. They 
are: The Sperminator, Backside to 
the Future, A Star is Porn, The Year 
of the Sex Dragon, Miami Spice, The 
^ Postman always Comes Twice, Sex 
Fifth Avenue, The Good, the Bad 
and the Horny, Romancing the 
Bone, and Hannah Does Her Sisters.
The titles above come to me from a 
seemingly endless barrage of offers 
I get in the mail to buy sex videos at 
discount prices; which brings me to 
my next topic, videotape movies. As
you know, the business of renting 
and selling movies on videotape has 
exploded into an industry rich
However, it is possible to 
build a small circuit which 
circumvents the copy-protection scheme.
enough to buy me 100,000 Ferraris. 
(Why cant they at least buy me one? 
It would hardly set them back. 
Maybe Pll go up to Squirrel Hill and 
talk to the West Coast Video people. 
Wish me luck. Ill give you a ride if 
Im successful.)
Many people engage in the illegal 
practice of duplicating videotapes. 
This has become a difficult process 
because of the increasing number of 
videotapes which are now cleverly 
copy-protected." However, it is
possible to build a small circuit 
which circumvents the copy-protection scheme, and a friend of mine 
who wishes to remain anonymous 
has built just such a circuit. Pm not 
saying I condone what hes doing 
but if youre interested in such a 
circuit  for the sake of intellectual 
curiosity, of course  drop me a line 
and well talk things over. Bring a 
fifty.
Id like to devote the remainder of 
this column to a discussion of the 
James Bond series. These films were 
an historic landmark because they 
enable their male audience to imag
ine themselves in James Bonds 
place, doing things that would be 
well-nigh impossible in real life 
(Ive always wanted to use the term 
well-nigh, and now that I have, I 
can highly recommend doing so 
yourself), such as having sex with 
eight women in two hours.
Actually in the first Bond film, Dr. 
No, 007 only has three women; in the 
second film. From Russia with Love, 
four; and in the third film, Goldfinger, this number actually goes down 
to two! However, in the film that fol
lowed, James Bond at Plato's Re
treat, the number skyrockets to 
twenty-four, or one Bond girl every 
five minutes.
If the number eight women in 
two hours does not sound well-nigh 
impossible to you, please give me a 
call, Id like to ask you some things.
Q: Ive been told I have viral gastroenteri
tis. What do you do to stop the diarrhea?
A: Viral gastroenteritis is an acute viral infection that causes distur
bances in the digestive tract. It is most prevalent among children and 
people living together in dormitory-like settings. Often occurring 
during the fall and winter, the symptoms begin abruptly with diarrhea, 
nausea vomiting, headache, low-grade fever, abdominal cramps, and 
fatigue. The illness usually resolves spontaneously in 24 to 48 hours.
Diarrhea, which usually accompanies this illness, is the frequent 
passage of watery stools. Every time you eat or drink, there will be a 
tendency to have a bowel movement.
The most important thing to do is to rest your gastrointestinal tract 
and maintain hydration. Since you are losing fluids in your bowel 
movements, and perhaps, also through the skin from fever, you run a 
risk of becoming dehydrated. Dehydration can cause dizziness, espe
cially with position change, and weakness. If you develop diarrhea, 
the following is recommended:
1. Drink large amounts of clear liquids such as tea, jello, ginger ale, 
apple juice, chicken or beef broth, or flat coke for the first 24 hours.
2. Dont eat milk or milk products, fresh fruits, or raw vegetables.
3. Dont eat fried or spicy foods.
4. If you do experience a bowel movement after drinking fluids, 
gradually add solid foods starting with rice, applesauce, ripe bananas, 
and toast without butter.
5. If no diarrhea occurs after eating the above foods, continue to add 
bland, low-fat foods.
Remember, gastroenteritis should not last more than three days and 
should improve if you follow the diet. If you do not improve, you 
should visit the Student Health Service or see your family doctor.
SUMMER PLANS?
The Housing Office is looking 
for students interested in 
working full-time over the 
coming Summer.
We currently have positings 
available for Office Assistants 
and Facilities Crew Assistants.
To learn more about these 
positions, please contact the 
Housing Office (x2139).
Applications are currently 
available in the Housing Office.
All applicants must be 
work-study eligible and must 
submit an application to the 
Housing Office by Friday, 
March 4th.
CMU 
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MS: PS00@TE ps00@andrew 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any TOPS
System.
The CMU Computer Store and 
PC Repair now have evening
hours:
Mon. & Thurs. 10:00 a.m. - 
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, Wed., & Friday 
10:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
(These hours will remain in effect until further notice)


---------------------------------------------------

.
IT
ChineseNewYear
Happy Year of The Dragon!!
The Chinese New Year has been a tradition celebrated for thousands of 
years. This year, the Chinese Student Organization gladly brings this 
tradition to our campus with the following events:
 The Lion Dance on Friday, Feb. 19th, in front of Doherty 
Hall.
 New Year Dance Party on Saturday, Feb. 20th, 9pm-lam, 
in Skibo Wherrett room.
CSO hopes that you will enjoy the Lion Dance and will celebrate with us 
at the New Year Dance Party.
Sponsored by The Chinese Student Organization 
Cosponsored by AB 
Funded by Activities Fees

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage 19
Computer club: C what theyre all about
By RHONDA LANDY
Tartan Staffwriter
Computers are practi
cally everywhere on 
Carnegie Mellon cam
pus. Some students 
avoid them whenever 
possible, while other 
students try to work with 
them. Unfortunately, . 
many people who work 
with them dont know as 
much about them as they 
would like, even after 
taking Computer Skills 
Workshop and Pascal.
One way to learn more
about computers is to join the Computer Club.
The Computer Clubs purpose is the dissemination of knowl
edge about computers and the computing systems at CMU to 
its members. Membership in the club offers advantages such as 
access to hardware and systems here at CMU to which people 
cannot ordinarily get access. The club also holds meetings 
every other week, featuring lectures on a variety of computing 
topics, ranging from discussions of basic information about 
CMUs computers to the current series of lectures, which deals 
with programming in C in a Unix environment (i.e. Andrew). 
This current series assumes a knowledge of the C language and 
talks about interfacing with the operating system through 
system calls, and facilities such as sockets and pipes. Most of 
the time, the lectures are handled by members. Occasionally, 
however, a staff member has spoken. For example, Nathaniel 
Borenstein, Systems Designer for the Information Technology 
Center, gave a talk to the Computer Club about Andrew 
development last semester.
The King of the Computer Club, Senior Dave Bolen, said, 
No matter how CMU moves, the club will always be an 
important and useful organization. We adapt to whatever 
happens....As Andrew became popular, we made sure that our 
club directory on the system became an important item for the
Computer Club
club to maintain  and 
today its a very popular 
directory because of the 
many programs and 
utilities we maintain 
there.
Some of the programs 
and utilities maintained 
in -clOx, the clubs di
rectory on Andrew, in
clude Gnu Emacs (an al
ternative to Unipress 
Emacs, which is stan
dard on Andrew), data 
compression utilities, 
miscellaneous Unix 
utilities, and a personal 
version of the window manager. The directory is open to the 
public, and a README file in it describes all the programs. 
Anyone can get in contact with the club online by sending email to CLOX on any public computer system. The club main
tains directories on all TOPS systems, Vax-B, Andrew, and the 
3083, each of which house utilities and useful programs for 
their respective systems.
Were generally a repository on each system for programs 
that arent supported officially, but are generally very useful 
and are things that we maintain ourselves. said Bolen.
The club meets every other Wednesday night at 7 pm in 
Doherty A-317. Membership dues are $5 per semester for 
undergraduates and $5.50 for graduate students or people who 
dont pay the activities fee. Members are entitled to take part in 
any standard club activity, join any of the special interest 
groups being run by the club, get a club account (similar to a 
request account) on either Vax-B, the 3083, or the Computer 
Club Microvax I, DRYCAS, and access to the computer clubs 
hardware lab. The lab contains a lot of older equipment, as well 
as some more recent items that members can play with.
Bolen also said that No matter how much the public groups 
(such as AC and ITC) do, the club will always have some of the 
be^t people around to supply information to other students.
$
Parts is parts
continued from page 15
other people to enter their parts.
I enjoyed my own share of this fun after I had returned 
to my seat. Some of my newspaper associates had joined 
the crowd, and I took an odd pleasure in singling out one 
of my superiors to compete for Male Best Chest. His 
panic, once he got back to the kitchen, was like an old 
friend... holding a butcher knife. We told him it wasnt 
serious, that it was casual, and Russ (really really for 
sure his real name) said chillingly, Theres nothing 
casual about this. The really strange part about it is that 
despite his stage fright (like I said, hysterically funny if 
you dont got it) he took first place. In several cases, one 
or two vehement cheerers were able to turn the tides of 
an otherwise one-sided contest.
The prizes, as I discovered, were whipped cream, a 
banana, and a pineapple, for first, second, and lower 
places, respectively, in each category. Recipients were 
grateful but not overwhelmed.
One young lady, who was referred to as the wench in 
the white thing by a slighted competitor, walked away 
with a caq, of whipped cream, two bananas, and a pine
apple. Somebody muttered that she had the makings of 
either a good fruit salad or an interesting evening at 
home. I dont know who said it  it certainly wasnt me.
As the dust cleared, I was able to get a few comments 
from the staff. A man who called himself George said 
that It was more than we expected; Siskel and Ebert 
give it two... body parts, up in the air. Never in our 
wildest dreams, he said, and thats it. Leave it at that. 
Someone said oy in a quiet voice, and Dave told me 
that it was fun, but not as good as last year.
I left with a handful of discarded balloons and broken 
dreams, but I had been given a brief taste of the high life. 
I gained a whole new perspective on becoming part of 
what you write about, and I got a pineapple to boot. I 
cant wait until they end me to do the article on the 
Skydiving Club next week  participatory journalism 
will reach new heights!
.0'
m

Friday, Feb. 19th, 4:30pm 
Schenley Park Ice Rink
IFaculty, Staff, and 
Grads Welcome
FUNDED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE
smgg7i smesmgg7i Fme(and money, too)
Applications for 17 available 
Pre-College/APEA Counselor 
positions for the coming Summer 
are now available in the 
Housing Office.
These positions are full-time 
from June 19th through August 
7th, with some additional 
employment available during the 
remaining weeks of the Summer.
Please contact the Housing 
Office (x2139) for more 
information.
Application Deadline: 
Friday, February 26th

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanFebruary 16,1988
Why the market crashed
The budget deficit was huge and the trade 
gap seemed to be worsening, stocks were un
reasonably high, investors were excited, 
while interest rates appeared to be rising. Why 
on this particular day did the bull market 
collapse with the Dow Jones falling 508 points 
in a matter of hours?
The answer remains elusive even after inves
tigations by a presidential task force, congres
sional committees and several industry 
groups.
Investigation of the trading on Monday 19,
1987 by Wall Street Journal reporters shows 
that weak links within the financial markets 
allowed an early sell-off to rage out of con
trol. Some of the causes cited by the Wall 
Street Journal include:
One of the most volatile strategies-portfolio 
insurance persisted unchecked throughout the 
day, bringing down the market with each pro
grammed trade.
 Atrading techniqueknown as index arbitrage 
that could have softened the fall of portfolio 
insurance and help stabilize stock prices was
abandoned due to over-worked computers.
The countrys largestmutual-fund operator, 
Fidelity Investments, had to unload almost one 
billion dollars in equities due to its aggressive 
investment strategy.
Block traders, who work for the streets 
biggest brokerage firms, became cautious, 
selling positions as quickly as they were 
forced to buy them from customers.
Remarks from the SEC regarding a possible 
trade halt helped to dilute a brief rally.
The specialists on the floor of the NYSE 
were overwhelmed by sell orders and lacked 
the capital to support prices.
All of these forces came together and fed on 
one another, enhanced by the newly realized 
power of the global market. With extensive 
communication and computer equipment 
along with many young and somewhat inexpe
rienced traders, investors worldwide began to 
go on a selling frenzy causing a enormous drop 
in prices. |
As reported by the Wall Street Journal, the 
trading week was mostly just a chain reaction 
to a series of bad news. On the Wednesday 
preceding the crash. Democrats on the House 
Ways and Means Committee agreed to tax 
changes that would make corporate takeovers 
much less attractive.
Many people believed that the prospect of 
takeovers and acquisitions had been propping 
up the Dow. Also, the United States trade 
deficit was wider than expected. On that 
Wednesday, the Dow Jones fell 95 points.
In the next article we shall go into more depth 
on these causes.
David Bland is the Vice President of the Uni
versity Entrepreneurial Association, Carne
gie Mellon.
The Pittsburgh 
Bonsai Society will 
hold ten weeks of 
free bonsai classes 
at the King Envi
ronmental Center, 
1251 N. Negley
Thursday. Feb
ruary 18:
Helmut Lorenz, 
Professor, Univer
sity of Berlin, will 
speak on Johann 
Bernard Fischer 
von ErlachsTuesday
16, at 7:00 pm. The
classes will continue every Tuesday eve
ning. No registration required. For more 
information call 352-1960.
Featured carvings from the collection of 
Dr. Ralph Proctor will be on exhibit at the 
Allegheny Courthouse Gallery Forum 
throughout February. The collection in
cludes works by Lamadi Fakeyb, a re
nowned Yoruba African carver.
Wednesday, February 17:
International Scientific Cooperation as a 
Means of Enhancing Global Security will 
be the topic when Peter Didisheim, a mem
ber of the staff of Representative George World, a lecture and discussion by Lain Vienna and Vi
ennese Garden Palaces at 8:00 pm in the 
Hunt Multi-Purpose Room. Free. Call 
268-2353 for more information.
Friday, February 19:
A program on owls will be conducted by 
Chuck Tegue, Education Coordinator for 
the Pittsburgh Aviary at 7:30 pm at Frick 
Nature Center, 2005 Beeehwood Boule
vard. Cost is $2.50 per person for residents 
and pre-registration is necessary by calling 
422-6538.
Wednesday, February 24:
Brain People in a Left
Brown (California) speaks at noon in the 
Board Room of the YMCA located at 30 
Blvd. of the Allies. Sponsored by Pennsyl
vania Peace Links. Free.
Photographer Anne Fishbein will speak 
on her photography series Highway 66 
and Other Views at 7:00 pm in the Adam
son Wing of Baker Hall. The series will be 
on exhibit in Carnegie Mellons Hewlett 
Gallery from February 18 to March 22, 
with an opening reception at 5:00 on the 
18th. Free.
Ulrich Flemming will speak on Hom
mage to Barcelona at noon in CFA 206 as 
a part of the Department of Architectures 
Architecture Seminar Series. Free and 
open to the public.
Donna Bates, will be held at the Center for 
Human Development located .at 401 
Shady Avenue at 8 pm. The fee for the 
S6. For reservations call 361- 
For more information call 782-
0428.
Roots of the Struggle, a seminar by Jim 
Anderson, Professor of Psychology at 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania will be 
sponsored by CMUs Spirit organization 
in Margaret Morrison 408 at 6 pm. 
Howard Saalman, Andrew Mellon Pro
fessor of Architecture, will speak on 
Barbadovi ChapelBarabdovi Dow
ries at noon in CFA 206. Free. Call 268- 
2353 for more information.
Compiled by TERENCE SPIES
O
Student Senate Vacancies:
PTPeT27O Pi7 euR p72e, F2rr71 2e 8.7 FurruR2e, Turr7,7O
H&SSCFA
Comp Sci 
SU PA 
GSIA
1 Seat1 Spring Seat 
1 Seat 
1 Seat 
3 Seats
Pick up your petitions at the Skibo Information Desk. 
Due Mon, February 29,1988.Funded by your activities fee.

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage 21
&
<<

28
II
Care and feeding 
of contact lenses
continued from page 16contact lens use, according to Dr. Howard 
Kress, a local optometrist, is dry eyes. Natu
rally, this is a relatively rare condition, but 
drug usage or climate can bring it about. Alco
hol, Kress says, especially dries the eyes.
Concomitant with correcting many prob
lems, many lens varieties exist. One variable 
characteristic of lenses is gas permeability. 
This factor ranges from the gas permeable 
hard lenses, to extended wear lenses that can 
be left in for weeks at a time. The gas permeablity of a lens is indicated by a TK number ( a 
hard lens may be a TK-8 and extended wear a 
TK-68.) The higher permeablities allow 
longer wear, and prevent anoxia, or oxygen 
starving of the eyes. The higher permeabilities 
are also, on average, harder to fit and require a 
more experienced doctor. Kress uses a com
puter program designed at Ohio State Univer
sity to custom fit a lens to a patients eye. Data 
on the eye is collected with an infrared auto 
keratometer. These devices are an immense 
aid to lens fitting says Kress.
Harder lenses are also used to improve the 
vision of a nearsighted eye, in a way resem
bling putting braces on teeth. The effects of 
this therapy, known as orthokeratology, are 
impossible to exactly predict, so it must be 
done under the supervison of an eye doctor.
On the more aesthetic side, lenses to change 
the color of eyes can be bought at many optical 
outlets and people without vision problems 
can tailor their eye color. The cosmetic side of 
contacts is a major reason for contact usage.
The most obvious drawback to lenses is the 
fuss necessary to maintain them. Here is the 
daily routine of Craig Schlecter, a student 
wearer of soft lenses. 1) Get the lenses out of 
the holder and rinse them. 2) Put the lenses in 
your eye. 3) Look around, so the lenses settle 
on your cornea. 4) Wear the lenses around and 
live your life for a day. 5) Pinch the lenses off 
the eye. 6) Clean the lenses with lens cleaner. 
7) Put the lenses in the disinfector with saline 
solution. Compare this to the routine of Ter
ence Spies, journalist and glasses wearer. 1) 
Put glasses on. In addition to the daily routine, 
the contact lens wearer must remember that he 
is wearing the lenses, because, says Schlecter, 
closing his eyes for over ten minutes results in 
an uncomfortable Saran Wrap effect, mak
ing the lenses hard to remove.
The chemistry set accompanying contacts 
can have more serious effects than mere incon
venience. There are two types of solutions: 
preservative and non-preservative. Preserva
tive solutions contain mercury, which is poi
sonous in large quantities. Non-preservative 
solutions do not, but they have a shorter shelf 
life. Some people have severe reactions to the 
preservative solutions, necessitating caution.
Contact lens hand is an example of one 
reaction. Bizarre rashes were reported in the 
Harvard Medical School Letter that were 
traced back to the solutions that people were 
using that contacted their hands.
The most serious condition resulting from 
contact lens usage is a syndrome known as 
acanthamoeba keratitis which is difficult to 
diagnose because it mimics nearly exactly the 
effects of herpes simplex. The disease results 
in extreme degradation of the cornea, causing 
leakage of the solution in the eye and great 
amounts of pain. Treatment ranges from cor
neal transplants to removal of the eyeball. It is 
rare (1 in a million, according to the Center for 
Disease Control) but has resulted from all 
types of lenses. CDC officials advise that 
effects like this can be prevented by rigorously 
following the manufacturer's directions.
People have complained of deposits building 
on the lenses, scratching their eye. Also, there 
are horror stories of people falling asleep with 
contacts in, the contacts dry up, and the person 
wakes up to non-removeable. painfuUengef;.
There are good and bad sides to fconfact 
lenses. They can free you from glasses, but 
abusing them can lead to dire consequences.
Memorization tricks wanted
Dr. Gregory F. Aloia, a Professor of Special Education at SUNY 
Genesco, is untertaking a study of mnemonic aids. An example of a 
common mnemonic aids is:
Music (Note Scale): E G B D F
Every Good Boy Does Fine,
Aloia is seeking examples of such learning aids that students have 
successfully used in their studies  any grade, any subject area, any 
technique. He asks students with favorite mnemonic aids to fill out the 
form below and clip and return this article to Mnemonic Aids, Dr. 
Aloia, P.O. Box 263, Genesco, New York 14454.
Name:University:.
Address:.
Describe Mnemonic Aid:
Correction
In last weeks article entitled Tutoring for minority high 
school students begins, CMUs Equal Opportunity Man
ager Everett Tademy was inadvertently cited as a SUPA 
member. We apologize for the error.\\^facultyJ
Japanese prints displayed
PITTSBURGHInternational Images, Ltd. is pleased to an
nounce the opening of an exhibition entitled 250 Years of 
Japanese Printmaking, Friday, February 26,1988 through Sat
urday,March 12,1988 at the Flatiron Building. Over thirty workswill be on display. The exhibit is curated by International Images, 
Ltd. Exhibition Director Charles Wiebe, a specialist on Japanese 
prints.
The early woodblock prints were the product of many hands. 
The artist would create an ink drawing, which would then be 
pasted to a block of cherry wood by a master engraver who would 
carve out all the areas between the artists lines, leaving them 
raised to receive the ink. Next, the printer would place a wetted 
sheet of mulberry bark paper over the block after inking it with a 
brush. He would then proceed to rub the paper using a circular 
motion applying great pressure with a bamboo pad called a 
barren. The print was then pulled and allowed to dry. This 
completes the first step of a process that would be repeated for each color.
The woodblock art form known as Ukiyo-e reached its zenith 
about 1850 and gradually declined until its death around 1900. 
However, early in the twentieth century a movement to revive the 
art form began to gain momentum. But a very characteristic 
ingredient was altered; there was no division of labor. The 
Japanese printmaker, following Western precedent, designed, 
engraved and printed the work himself. Now for the first time, the 
artist had total control of the finished print.
Gallery hours are Tuesday through Friday, 9:30 am to 5:50 pm; 
and Saturday, 10:00 am to 4:00 pm. For more information call 
International Images Ltd. at 741-3036.
Value 
Quality
From
/ Cfojwfzs 
Djy
5LEyA Djys
Fantastic Price
Af M3 Djys U s0jVEs 
28. 99J L7Pr V.77O7
only
Call us!681-1700315 North Craig St.521-2970623 Greenfield Ave.$8.88plus tax
No Coupon Required
12 Double Offer (16-slic)
Plain$ 8.88
Additional Items$ 1.29
1-item Pizza$10.17
2-item Pizza$11.46
3-item Pizza$12.75
4-item Pizza$14.04
5-item Pizza$15.33
No other discounts or coupons accepted with our Double Value 
offers.Tax not included in prices.
02g2871 C7r2a7ic yi7Ph
Our drivers carry less than 
$20.00.Locally Owned & Operated.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanFebruary 16,1988
OLYMPICS BEGIN IN CALGARY
The 1988 Winter Olympics began last 
Saturday in Calgary, Canada. Prelimi
nary competitions have already begun 
in team sports.
One of the most anxiously awaited 
contests is the hockey game between the 
USA and USSR. The game will be 
played tomorrow night and televised on 
ABC. The Russians are heavily favored 
in the matchup, and are expected to win 
the gold medal. Sweden is predicted to 
win the silver medal and the Canadians 
are expected to win the bronze.
WALES OUTLASTS CAMPBELL
Last Tuesday night the annual NHL 
All-Star Game was held in St. Louis, 
with the Wales conference beating the 
Campbell 6-5. Pittsburghs Mario 
Lemieux scored three goals and three 
assists for which he was named the MVP 
for this years contest. In other NHL AllStar news, the city of Pittsburgh has 
been named as the site for the 1990 NHL 
All-Star Game.
MANCINI VS. CAMACHO IN MAY
Former lightweight champions Ray 
Boom Boom Mancini and Hector 
Macho Camacho have agreed to fight 
in a proposed non-title bout in May. The 
fight will be set for 15 rounds and will be 
contested in either Las Vegas or Atlan
tic City. Camacho (age 25) once one of 
the top draws in boxing, was pushed 
back into the shadows when he gave up 
his WBC middleweight crown to fight 
in the smaller, junior welterweight 
ranks.
FOOTBALL SIGNINGS BEGIN
Colleges ended their first recruiting 
barrage of the year last week, as football 
players were allowed to start signing 
letters of intent Wednesday. The Uni
versity of Pittsburgh was able to sign 5 
of the top 100 high school players, while 
Notre Dame lead all schools with 12 
signings. Two of Pitts early signers 
were from Gateway High School in 
nearby Monroeville.
SPRING TRAINING NEARS
As the cold grips Pittsburgh, major 
league players head south this week as 
official training camps open for all 26 
teams. Spring training continues until 
the first week of April, when teams will 
head north to begin the 1988 season. The 
Pirates home opener will be April 11, 
when they take on the Philadelphia Phil
lies.
TARTANS IN GOOD COMPANY
In this weeks NCAA Division III 
mens basketball poll, the Tartans find 
two of their 1987-88 opponents in the 
top 20. Allegheny (18-4) ranked 16th, 
and UAA rival Washington University 
(14-5) is tied with another UAA team, 
Rochester (15-3), for 20th in the latest 
poll.
NCAA QUELLS CROWDS
The NCAA passed a rule last week that 
will award two free throws and posses-, 
iiion of the ball to a team if their oppo
nents fans deliberately delay a game by 
throwing debris on the court. This is a 
change from the old rule which awarded 
one free throw but not possession.
How to stand out
inacrowd.
TRAVELRELATEDSERVICES
Hockey team halted by IUP
The American Express* Card gets an outstanding welcome 
virtually anywhere you shop, whether it's for a leather jacket 
or a leather-bound classic. Whether youre bound for 
a bookstore or a beach in Bermuda. So during college 
and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about 
everything youll want.
How to get the Card now.
College is the first sign of success. And because we 
believe in your potential, we've made it easier 
to get the American Express Card right now 
Whether you're a freshman, senior or 
grad student, look into our new automatic 
approval offers For details, pick up an 
application on campus 
Or call l-800-THE-CARI) and ask for 
a student application. 
The American Express Card. 
Don't l^eave School Without It^
By NEAL A. LEVENE
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon Ice Tartans faced off 
against the Indiana University Apaches last 
Saturday, out at Belmont Ice Rink in Kittaning. In a game that they could have won, the 
Tartans instead let an early lead crumble in the 
late periods. The game ended in a 3-3 tie 
putting the Tartans in fourth place in the West 
Penn College Hockey Association and mak
ing their conference record 4-3-2.
Carnegie Mellon came out aggressively in 
the first period. Within the first eight minutes, 
the Tartans vaulted themselves into a 3-0 lead 
that looked like it would last the entire game.
Tartan scores came from John Blackwood 
unassisted at 1:12, Greg Palli unassisted at 
3:12, and Greg Timmons from Marty Gormanat at 8:25. The next score did not come 
until IUP scored at the end of the first period 
which made the score 3-1.
We looked good in the first half of the first 
period. Somewhere, however, we lost our in
tensity. After the first period, we played to 
them and were not on our game, reported 
Senior Tri-Captain Rich Nave.
The second period went scoreless. Even with 
the loss of intensity, Carnegie Mellon played a
decent second period showing, at times, great 
finesse. IUP did not press, so the Tartan for
wards had a lot of time to take shots. However, 
Apache goalie Matt Stasko stopped every
thing the Tartans sent at him.
Surprisingly, the only real scoring opportu
nity came right at the end of the period when 
IUP missed four consecutive shots on goal. A 
fine effort by Tartan goalie John Kerber pre
vented the Apaches from scoring.
After denying two ripping shots, Kerber lost 
his stick. Play continued with the Apaches 
sending two rocketing shots that both de
flected off the posts.
When the Tartans finally cleared the puck, 
Kerber fell to the ice in astonishment that none 
of the shots scored. During the intermission 
between the second and third periods, a dis
mayed Kerber could only shake his head and 
report, They hit both posts!
The Tartans 3-1 lead was only to last until 
9:29 of the third period when Carnegie 
Mellons game fell apart. The Tartans allowed 
two goals in as many minutes.
The most frustrating thing about the tie was 
that CMU had been playing well enough to 
beat IUP. The Apaches just stayed in the game 
longer. While Carnegie Mellon sat silent on
their bench, IUP was on its feet and vocal 
throughout the entire game.
The Tartans leading scorer, Tri-Captain 
Greg Timmons, complained vehemently 
throughout the game about the refereeing. He 
said one too many words and received a ten 
minute misconduct penalty that removed him 
from the rest of the game.
The penalty resulted in an angry exchange 
between the referee and both benches which in 
the end became a distraction for the Tartans.
We were paying too much attention to the 
referees calls, explained Todd Henderson, 
who was penalized three times for a total of six 
minutes in a ten minutes of the second period.
In a penalty filled game, the referees called 
50 minutes of penalties with 40 of those min
utes coming in the third period.
Two minutes after losing Timmons, Rich 
Nave took a holding penalty. With Nave and 
Timmons off the ice and much of the team 
disgruntled over recent penalties, the Apaches 
scored a quick power play goal. IUP tied it a 
minute later with a short-handed goal.
In summing up the game Nave said, We 
have been playing a lot of hockey, and it is hard 
to come out intense all the time. However, we 
are not putting in a full game.

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage 23
Uvta yVnasn yela Cl nta FybU6eisStruggle in store for USA skiing
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Photography Editor
The 15th Winter Olympics will be spectacu
lar for Americans as ABC will be devoting 95 
f hours of air time between February 14 and 28 
to the games. Unfortunately, Americas 
chances for medals in alpine skiing are rather 
slim. The Europeans should dominate.
Alpine skiing consists of five medal events
- for men and women: downhill, super G, sla
lom, giant slalom, and alpine combinations. 
Competitors ski over a pre-determined gated 
course, covering the distances in the shortest 
{ possible time. Lowest aggregate times deter
mine medal standings. All alpine events will 
be held at Nakiska, on Mount Allen, about 55 
miles southwest of Calgary.
The Swiss will be the ones to watch. They are 
expected to win medals in every alpine event, 
with emphasis put on Peter Muller and Pirmin 
Zurbriggen.
The US has been rebuilding its team in the 
k wake of Phil and Steve Mahre who took sev
eral medals in the 1984 games. Americas 
hopes are vested in the womens team. Tamara 
McKinney and Diann Roffe are strong medal 
hopefuls along with Pam Fletcher and Debbie 
Armstrong. The mens team lies with Felix 
McGrath and Bill Johnson as longshots for the 
combined and downhill, respectively.
The downhill at Nakiska is one of the major 
^ points of controversy in this Olympiad. It is 
steep and demanding on top but, reminiscent 
of the poor run at Lake Placid, is virtually flat 
at the bottom. It took a literal re-shaping of the 
mountain to develop a somewhat reasonable 
downhill run. Racers will need precision on 
the high speed top, and a good tuck for aerody
namics on the lower end. Swiss racers Peter 
Muller and Pirmin Zurbriggen are expected to 
sweep this event.
Bill Johnson, USAs gold medal downhiller, 
is having difficulties with the team; he will not 
practice and has several problems with the 
other members of the team and the coaches. 
He may not be permitted to run this year.
r<
The super G will be entered as an Olympic 
event for the first time this year. It is a combi
nation of downhill and slalom, a long fast run 
dotted with a myriad of sharp turns. A steep 
course with few turns will be to the 
downhillers advantage, while a shallow 
course with many turns will be helpful to the 
slalom skier. Nakiska, with its changing ter
rain on the long run, will prove a challenge to 
both skiing types. The Swiss and West Ger
mans are expected to be medal winners.
Slalom is the classic event with skiers nego
tiating sharp quick turns around poles (gates) 
on the slope. With the advent of the hinged 
gate, expect to see racers donning much more 
protective clothing (knee, shin, shoulder, and 
arm pads, in addition to helmets) as they liter
ally crash into and through the gates. This is an 
extremely controversial move, as skiers are forced to lose some of the grace of the turn 
around the gate in exchange for the aggres
siveness of having to crash through it.
Slalom will be a wide open event. Switzer
land has little in the way of slalom racers this 
year, but, surprisingly, Austria (who had al
ways fielded outstanding downhillers) is ex
pected to make a showing, along with West 
Germany and Yugoslavia. Tamara McKinney 
is an outstanding possibility for a medal.
Giant Slalom, a variation of slalom with the 
gates more widely spaced, and a much faster 
run, will be extremely good this year at Nak
iska. The upper slopes of the mountain lend 
themselves perfectly for the GS, providing 
much desired variety in the run. The Swiss 
show up here again (especially Zurbriggen) as 
medal winners, with USAs Diann Roffe as a 
dark horse.
The alpine combined brings slalom and 
downhill racers together. This will be one of 
the most spectacular to watch mainly because 
downhillers have trouble and fall on slalom 
runs, while slalom skiiers have trouble with 
the downhill runs. This event is returning to 
the Olympics after a 52 year absence. Again, 
here we see the Swiss strong, but with Ameri
can racers Tamara McKinney and Felix 
McGrath as strong possibilities.
Ladies faulter 
against JCU
continued from page 28
John Carroll was shooting 51.6% from 
the floor to Carnegie Mellons paltry 
23.5%. The Lady Tartans were also outrebounded by the Lady Blue Streaks, 
23-16 in the first period of play.
It was in the second half that the Lady 
Tartans, as well as their fans, came alive. 
With 13:34 left in the game, and the 
score 46-25, Virgin scored and was 
fouled on the play. She missed the free 
throw, grabbed the rebound and put it up 
for two. This marked the beginning of 
the Carnegie Mellon comeback.
After four and a half minutes and a 17-
6 scoring rampage, the Lady Blue 
Streaks lead was cut to 10, 52-42. The 
Lady Tartans came within 7 with 1:07 
left, but John Carroll put the icing on the 
cake, scoring 7 points in the last minute 
and winning 72-58. Carnegie Mellon 
outscored John Carroll in the second 
half, but it was not enough to repair the 
damage done in the first half of play.
Scoring honors go to Virgin with 22 
points, and junior Aimee Reber with 16. 
Reber also led the Lady Tartan rebound
ing attack with nine.
Michaela Kempton and Michelle 
Bozza led the Blue Streaks with 33 and 
13 points respectively. Kempton also 
pulled down 22 rebounds while team
mate Mary Unti contributed with ten.
The Lady Tartans will travel on Wed
nesday to meet conference co-leader 
Thiel (7-1 PAC) at 6 pm. Their next 
home game will be on Saturday, Febru
ary 20th, at noon at Skibo Gym.

---------------------------------------------------

  'ipfl X
A&E jwwELs fk 
s Lykk0E--
wP8Pr27 D787iOue 
R2ee7i uF 
$PrTuec C2ee7i
H uc $7i7eF27r1 H 
R2ee7i uF 
s'7T.mPe 5uig78 C2ee7i
H VPir &PPO H 
R2ee7i uF 
52Pe7882zO C2ee7i
  ERIC VENNERBECK  
2ee7i uF y2ir2e7 A2T78O 8u
r\j
k
sLdc_
P
^ e__S cl/Ae;u u
ni twti !'**c9n rwrtW

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage 25
I9SPP Om22R m6IVna #2
o
Introducing the new buggy committee
By STEVE NG
Special to the Tartan
To allow some new interested spectators 
and possible participators a better overview 
of buggy, I feel it is a good time to introduce 
the Sweepstakes Committee. The Sweep
stakes Committee is a group of personnel 
who manage and run the buggy races and 
practices each year. This committee is 
elected by the organizations who partici
pate in the races that particular season, and 
have such responsibilities as overall super
vision of rolls, dealing with permits, fines, 
safety inspections, and various other du
ties.
Traditionally, the committee consisted of 
three people: The Sweepstakes Chairman, 
an Assistant Sweepstakes Chairman, and a 
Safety Chairman. But due to the sudden in
crease in the number of buggies entered in 
the race, there grew a need to appoint two 
Safety Chairmen to efficiently handle the 
heavy load. So, it is my great pleasure to 
introduce the four members of the 1987-88 
Sweepstakes Committee:
Sweepstakes Chairman, Gino Cosentino 
is the man in charge this year. He is cur
rently in a graduate program with GSIA, 
and was Assistant Chairman for Gretchen 
Von Grossmans Committee in 1985. He is 
quite optimistic about Spring rolls and was 
impressed with the rolls last fall. Cosentino 
is looking forward to an exciting and safe
1988 buggy year.
Assistant Chairman, Chris Hansen is the 
other guy with a megaphone. Chris keeps 
freerolls running smoothly, tells who to go 
when, where to sweep and flag, and checks 
to see if you pass your brake test. His buggy 
experience involves his participation as 
Spirit Push team captain for two years.
Safety Chairman Tricia DiMarco was As
sistant Sweepstakes Chairman for 1987 
and has been pushing for Theta Xis 
womens teams since her freshman year. 
She was one of the Lady Tartans top 
Cross-Country runners this past season and 
is looking forward to a very safe and rainfree raceday.
The other Safety Chairman, Phil Tubesing, was SDC head mechanic for two 
years, and is quite dedicated to Buggy as a 
whole. He knows his stuff pretty well, and 
is easy to get along with, unless he catches 
you driving without a helmet.
With a sweepstakes committee like this, 
you know that things are going to go 
smooth. Each member has been associated 
with buggy for at least two years, which 
provides them with incredible experience 
for any sudden emergencies. I am quite im
pressed by their combined credentials, and 
when supported by Anne Witchner and the 
Alumni Safety Committee, feel they can 
provide superior management of Sweep
stakes.
Phone 363
U jwV& DEDDELfwj Djy NhB8uY
Saturday 11 am - 2 am
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
Strategic Gaming Initiative
The Strategic Gaming Initiative, a combined effort of the CMU 
Gaming Club and the Student Dormitory Council, will be working 
this semester to maintain and replace the older, worn out games at 
our locations in the Morewood Gardens rec. room, and in the 
Mudge and Donner residence halls. In addition, we will be 
providing new games at these locations as well as opening another 
location. In order to accomplish this more effectively we would like 
to know what games you would like to see on campus, as well as 
any comments you have on improving our system (check out pro* 
cedure, selection, maintenance, etc.)mm h mm mm mm mm mm am mm wm mm mm mm wm mm m mm mm am mm mm mm mm  mm m
Games and comments:---------------------------------------------
When completed, please turn in to the Gaming Club mailboj^t^he^Skibo Information Desk.
gan nta 2VUas Oa2el
Schlaggers go for the gold
By KARYN SILVA
Tartan Staffer iter 
The Winter Olympics in Calgary may have 
the world glued to their television sets, but as 
for competitive challenge, the Schlag Olym
pics is running a close second. Though the 
residents of Hammerschlag House dont have 
a torch burning (they are staying within the 
rules of the housing office  no open flames) 
the Olympic spirit prevails within the cinder 
block walls of their home.
All favorites are located on 
the first floor, said one RA.
The idea began when the dorms five RAs 
decided to unify the building. They felt that 
Hammerschlag House, affectionately known 
as Schlag, was losing its reputation as a crazy 
place for freshmen. So was bom the Olympics 
where one floor would compete against the 
other in practical and entertaining events.
The residents are very excited about the 
games. Participation depends on the floor, but 
an estimated 50% of the Schlaggers are in
volved. Some of this may be attributed to peer 
pressure, but the majority seem to be involved 
on their own free will. One Schlagger com
mented that the Olympics were the most 
remarkable thing that has happened to Ham
merschlag this semester.
According to RA Eric Pitchford, the utmost 
sportsmanship has been displayed and there 
have been no problems yet.
The sporting events that these trained and 
dedicated men will be competing in are 8-ball,
?Off-Campus Housing
An Advisory/Referral Service 
is now being provided out of the 
Housing Office in 
Morewood Gardens.
See Norma Shaw, Off-Campus 
Housing Coordinator.
Students interested in discussing their 
housing needs or their desire to move off campus 
are invited to speak with Norma Shaw at their 
Convenience. Up-to-date and accurate information 
and listings are available upon request.
Other advice and support service is offered 
to students having apartments who need room
mates and to students who wish to share space in 
other apartments.
chess, ping-pong, ultimate frisbee, football 
and basketball. Surprisingly enough the most 
popular sport so far has been chess.
The 8-ball event has contributed some con
troversy to these Winter Games. Last week a 
very jealous outsider stole the Schlag pool 
balls to hamper the success of the Olympics. 
SDC kindly provided the Schlaggers with 
another set. What are Olympics without some 
intrigue?
The 1988 Schlag Olympic games will end 
on February 26, ending sixteen days of gruel
ing competition. Tony Martin from the Hous
ing Office has promised the Schlaggers that if 
the Olympics continues to go well, Housing 
will provide the athletes with a PMS Party 
(Pre-Midterm Stress) that will serve as a part 
of the Awards and Closing Ceremonies. So far 
Olympic results are not yet official, but when 
asked who was going to dominate, biased RA 
Pitchford said that All favorites are located 
on the first floor.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanFebruary 16,1988
Josh Rubens
Last week, sports fans were treated with both 
the NHL and NBA all-star games. According 
to USA today, the NBA game was the highest 
rated sports program 
of the week. That's no 
big surprise, consider
ing that the only other 
big events were the 
AT&T Golf Tourna
ment and pro-bowl
ing. However, the 
NHL game, was not 
even one of the top 15 
programs watched.
Doesn't the rest of the 
country know what 
they have missed? Do 
they care? No, to both questions.
Hockey is a great game and Pittsburgh is very 
lucky to have best player in the league playing 
for them. The Penguins and Mario Lemieux, 
are a great deal to cheer about, but who else is 
cheering, or even giving us credit?
Basketball, my friends, is where the popular
ity and notability lie.
If you went into almost any city in the coun
try and mentioned Michael Jordan, Larry Bird, 
or Magic Johnson, you will be guaranteed that 
at least one (if not all) of those names will be 
recognized. Now use the same test but substi
tute the names with Lemieux, Wayne Gretzky, 
and Bryan Trottier. Maybe Gretzky would be 
recognized but the odds are unlikely that 
whoever named him will be able to tell you 
what team the Great One plays for  unless 
the city youre in has a hockey team.
The point to all of this is that hockey is so 
regional that few people even care about the 
NHL unless their city has a team or they live in 
Canada. Basketball, on the other hand, is 
almost universal. Farm boys in Indiana play as 
do city kids in the playgrounds of New York. 
It was invented in this country and is the only
Sportspeak
truely American sport.
Why cant Pittsburgh have a basketball team 
just like the other big cities it is trying so 
hard to imitate? It has 
had them in the past, 
but they never took 
off. People were too 
wrapped up with the 
Penguins, Pirates and 
Steelers, not to men
tion Pitt sports.
Professional basket
ball in Pittsburgh has 
followed a rocky 
course since starting 
in the 1930s. The 
Ironmen and the Renaissance were the first two Pittsburgh teams. 
Then came the Pipers who went to Minnesota 
then came back as the Condors under new 
owners.
Now, with the city on the move again and 
more people moving here, interest in pro bas
ketball is growing.
Pitt is one of the best teams in the country, but 
unless your an alumnus or student, it is very 
difficult to attend games. Going to CMU 
games is an experience few people off campus 
know about. Besides, pro basketball, with its 
superstars and element of near perfection has 
a different kind of attraction for fans than 
college basketball.
Basketball fans in Pittsburgh feel left out. 
They yearn to see Bird, Magic, and Air Jordan, 
and must be satisfied with watching highlights 
on the evening news. Occasionally the Philedelphia 76ers will come over and play some 
pre-season exhibition games, and they draw 
some pretty good sized crowds.
I'm not saying that pro basketball in Pitts
burgh will take off immediately (the L.A. 
Clippers will be struggling for some time), but 
the fans are here and patiently waiting.
7,T es lC syCmit el .Vna8 s6C8nsSwimmers stay in perfect stroke
By DAVE WILLIS
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon swim teams contin
ued their winning ways with victories over 
Grove City and Washington and Jefferson. 
The victory over Grove City, defending 
Presidential Athletic Conference champi
ons, was the first in Carnegie Mellon swim
ming history and could serve as a stepping 
stone to the schools first PAC champion
ship.
Carnegie Mellon fell behind early, as 
Grove City won the 400 yard medley relay 
by a six second margin. But the Tartans 
took the second through fourth spots in the 
1000 yard freestyle to close within 2 points. 
Fosters first in the 200 yard freestyle gave 
Carnegie Mellon its first lead, which it 
maintained despite two consecutive firsts 
by Grove City. The Tartans then put the 
meet away with firsts in the next four 
events. Winners were Greg Schooley (200 
yard butterfly), Paul Moran (200 yard 
backstroke), Pat Hensler (500 yard frees
tyle), and Fosters second victory, in the 
100 yard freestyle. With a commanding 90- 
60 lead with two events to go, the Tartans 
coasted to an easy victory.
Following up this tremendous victory, the 
men handily defeated the Presidents from 
W&J. With victories in the first six events,
the Tartans led 70-20 and swam mostly 
exhibition for the remainder of the meet. 
Foster had two more firsts, winning the 50 
yard freestyle and the 100 yard backstroke. 
Pat Hensler placed first in two events also, 
although his effort in the 500 yard freestyle, 
in which he outdistanced his competitors 
by 44 seconds, was recorded in an exhibi
tion run.
Since Grove City does not have a 
womens swim team, the Lady Tartans 
were coming off a prolonged layoff when 
they faced Washington and Jefferson. 
However, they were still able to defeat their 
undermanned opponents (W&J only had 
one or two swimmers in many of the early 
events, while Carnegie Mellon entered 
three). Susie Kelley, with firsts in the 200 
and 500 yard freestyles, and Francesca 
Crannell were the driving forces behind the 
victory. Crannell took the 100 yard frees
tyle by almost five seconds while also set
ting both a school and a pool record in the
50 yard freestyle with a time of 25.31 
seconds.
With the UAA championships this week 
and the PAC championships next week, the 
Tartans still have work to do. Under Coach 
Jim Perkins, the squads have been very im
pressive, beating many of their stronger op
ponents.
Au1Pc 2O gP17 nuOO2pr7S 2e nPi8S 
pc Ee,7r.Pi1 VuinuiP82ueh
Engelhard creates technologies that are. in a word, exceptional
Technologies that help create your personal computer, television and 
stereo components, your VCR. your telephone Technologies that keep the 
planes you fly comfortable, safe, and reliable That keep your car running 
smoothly, kitchen well stocked, your body healthy, the air clean Technologies 
that help refine gasoline, oil. and jet fuels, and make essential parts for 
satellites, space vehicles, aircraft, and more Much more
The fact is. Engelhard s continuing development of thousands of 
exceptional technologies will continue to help us lead lives of exceptional 
qualitysevery day
t X(TPHONAL TFCHNOtCXj/tS
Copyright 1986 fc/Kjeiftard Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
February 17:
February 18: 
February 18-20: 
February 20:
Tartan Sports Calendar
Womens Basketball at Thiel College, 6:00 pm (WRCT)
Mens Basketball at Thiel College, 8:00 pm 
Hockey vs Indiana University of Pa at Kittaning, 7:45 pm (WRCT) 
Swimming at UAA Championships at U. of Rochester 
Womens Basketball vs Grove City at Skibo Gym, 12:00 pm 
Mens Basketball vs Grove City at Skibo Gym, 2:00 pm (WRCT)
V
IM Standings
BASKETBALL STANDINGSDIVISION EWL
STILL A PULSE3I
WOMENS BASKETBALLWLYOGI'S BEARS3i
SUPA40HISTORY GRADS21
5 C&D PLAYERS21PIKA-C21
AFROTC12ZOO-B03
CIA SHORT TEAM12KDR03
SOPHISTICATED LADIES03
DIVISION FwL
MAJORSwLCIA31
DRAMS40FLY BY NIGHT21
THE SQUAD31VDB WHITE I2I
ATO WOLFPACK31MONKEY PUS21
FIXERS32PROUD PETE02
SPIRIT-B32SAE-C03
1085 LIONS32
BETA11DIVISION GwL
THE MONKS23SCOBELL MILKMEN30
ALABAMA SLAMMERS15UCC30
UPA MAGICI4AFROTC1I
PIKA-A14NAVY ROTCI1
PHI KAP-A13
INTERMEDIATEAPHIO LOBS04
NORTHWL
BEN-WA-BALLS50DIVISION H iwL
UNDERDOG31SIG TAU40
PKT LTLS22MAYS MUCHROOMS21
ROBBER BARONS23ATO SFP22
PIPES12FECAL SOUP11
SDC-FINAL EFFORTI3THEWEESUCKS13
ORANGEI3L.Y.T.P.03
SOUTHWLDIVISION IwL
SUDSUCKERS50SMODNOCS40
DU-A41SOLD SHORT30
THETA XI-A3IDTD21
THETA XI-B12WHAT?13
KAPPA SIGMA13PHI KAP-WEST13
THE BOUNCERS24PIONEERS B03
DYNAMIC RAMS04
EASTwLFLOOR HOCKEY STANDING!
ATO WOLVERINES30
Z00-A31MAJORSwLT
CIV ES32POND SCUM100
G.M.D.S.22THE NOYS OF BOLOGNA100
BETA W.P.H.A.12PHI KAP100
THE REPLACEMENTSI3MEXICAN EARTHQUAKES 100
SPUDSHOOTERS03DYNAMO010
PIKA0I0
WESTWLSAE010
PIONEERS-A40DU0I0
DAVES TEAM30
MATHLETES20MINORS
PRANKSTERSI2NORTHwLT
SAE-B23SUDSCUCKERS100
PHYSICS03PIONEERSI00
ATO CUBS04ZOO100
THE BEAT010
MINORSESCAPE FROM NOISE020
DIVISION AwL
WRITER S BLOCK40SOUTHwLT
DU-A41PI LAM100
ME-GRADSS41SLOPE OF VENUS100
SBX-ASYLUM22THETA XI000
ATO-SCHLEPS13AEPI010
UNCONTROLLED MUSCLE 14BOSS HOGS010
TROJANS05
EASTwLT
DIVISION BwLDTD100
BUSHMEN40CIA100
ATO-OVER 20031TRANSFORMERS001
WOODLAWN31MOOSE JAW WARRIORS001
SHIP OF FOOLS13SDC0I0
WITH OURSELVESI3HAMMER SLAMMERS010
DU-B04
WESTwLT
DIVISION CWLSIG TAU100
PIKA POWER40OUTLAWS100
THETA XI C31AFROTC000
CSO22KDR010
KAPPA SIG-B13LEES ARMY010
SDC23
LONESOME LOSERS14
DIVISION Dw
DARTS STANDINGS
MONEY FOR NOTHIN/GSIA30PWL
WAWAWS III3IPILAM A31
PI LAM31X31
WOODSTOCKI3WHARF RATS22
SAE F TROOP13HOOT WOO22
THE K-MEN03PILAMETTES04
QWL
PILAM B31
EN31
SAE22
IMMEDIATE DUCKI3
DANGLING POINTERS13
IM News
The next IM Board Meeting will be held 
Thursday, February 18th at noon in the Gym 
Conference Room.
SPORTS IN SEASON
Darts
Commissioner Rob Moses 683-8409 
Please report all match results to Commis
sioner Moses as soon as possible.
Chess
Commissioner Matt Murbach x3939 
Matt will be getting all matches played soon, 
and the finals must be completed by March 1 st.
Backgammon
Commissioner A1 Margarella x8995 
Pick up rules and schedules in the IM office, 
and start matches as soon as possible.
Basketball
Majors - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Intermediate - Eric Jacobs x5510 
Minors - B.J. Rottscaefer x5503 
Women - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Please play all games as scheduled, and make 
sure winning team is circled on score sheet. 
Game officials must sign the game score sheet 
to make the game official. Also, the make up 
schedule for the games of February 2nd are 
now posted on the IM bulletin board.
Floor Hockey
Majors - Eric Bittner x8650 
Intermediate - Jeff Cohen x4134 
Revised schedules and rules are posted and 
can be picked up in the IM office.
Pinochle
Commissioner Pete Gaertner x5516 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM office.
Wrestling
Commissioner Stephanie Janczak x4229 
Practices are scheduled for Monday, Wed
nesday, and Friday from 3:30 pm to 4:45 pm in 
Thistle Hall. The 1988 IM Wrestling Tourna
ment will be held Saturday, March 5th at 9 am 
in Thistle Hall. Post Entry Weight in at 9 am 
that morning.
Water Basketball
Commissioner Carl Bell x5509 
The water basketball lifeguard will be John 
Bender, at x4552. Slots are still available for 
more teams.
Table Tennis
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM office and as soon as possible.
SPORTS COMING UP
All sports due February 18th unless other
wise noted.
Team Call Pool and Individual Call Pool
Commissioner Andy Segal x4436
Co-Rec Badminton
Co-Rec Table Tennis
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226
Basketball Foul Shooting
Commissioner Andy Segal x4436
THE IM TICKER...
Intramural Night is fast approaching. The 
official date is Thursday, March 3, beginning 
at 7 pm in Skibo Gym. The schedule of events 
that evening will be: 7:00 pm Intermediate 
Basketball Final, 8:00 pm Presentation of IM 
awards, 8:30 pm Majors Basketball Final. Any 
team that has won an IM award can pick it up 
at 8:00 pm that night.
The 1987-88 Bowling league finished this 
past week, as Phi Kap took the majors and 
minors titles. KDR busted the Phi Kap sweep 
by winning the intermediate title.
The 1988 AFROTC/IM 3 on 3 basketball 
tournament will take place in March after the 
regular IM season is completed. Dates and 
times for the tournament are not set, but will be 
announced next week. Those interested 
should stop by the IM office, or call x2214.
Anyone interested in officiating Floor 
Hockey, Indoor Soccer, or Softball should 
contact the IM office at x22I4. Pay for all 
sports is at the University rate.
Teams that are still in the running for the IM 
Basketball playoffs are urged to check the IM 
bulletin boards and next weeks IM report for 
playoff dates and times. The Majors playoffs 
will consist of the top six teams. The Minors 
and Intermediate leagues will consist of the 
top two teams from each division. The 
Womens championship will feature the sec
ond and third place winner against the first 
place team for the championship.
Here are this weeks polls for games ending 
February 11, 1988:
Majors
1. DRAMS
2. ATO Wolfpack
3. The Squad
4. BETA
5. Spirit-B
Intermediate
1. Sudsuckers
2. Ben-Wa-Balls
3. Pioneers-A
4. M athlete s/Dave's Team
5. DU-A/ATO Wolverines
Varsity
WPCHAWLT
StandingsGannon
Pittsburgh
12
7
0
3
02
Penn State West53iUAA-MenWLCarnegie Mellon432Rochester153Indiana U of Pa352
Washington145West Virginia35iNew York U126Allegheny270Emory109Slippery Rock1II1Brandeis910
Johns Hopkins9IIPAC-MenWL
Carnegie Mellon710John Carroll164
Chicago412Wash. & JeffII6
Case Western Reserve316Grove City 
Carnegie Mellon
7
7
9
10UAA-WomenWLBethany315Washington143Thiel315New York U164Hiram217Chicago124
BrandeisII7PAC-WomenWL
Carnegie Mellon119Thiel132
RochesterII9John Carroll164
Johns Hopkins77Carnegie Mellon1110
Emory35Hiram88
Case Western Reserve019Wash. A Jeff. 
Grove City 
Bethany
8
3
2
9
12
15

---------------------------------------------------

S
The Tartan
PORTS
IM  CLUBS  VARSITY  PROFESSIONAL
vta Ual caa6 Cl Iayera8el2 aRienel2 VineClTartans stage comeback against John Carroll
gVIb vV8nVls s6yen n.C Vs
ug7e iurr ua7i LuT.7O87i
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
At the beginning of the season, this was ex
pected to be an important game. John Carroll 
and Carnegie Mellon were picked to finish 
first and second in the Presidents Athletic 
Conference. The Blue Streaks were fulfilling 
their end of the bargain; their 16-3 record was 
tops in the PAC. The Tartans, on the other 
hand, were rapidly sliding down through the 
ranks of the conference, entering the game in 
fourth place.
The Tartans had lost three straight games, 
while the Blue Streaks were riding a six-game 
winning streak. Also, the Tartans starting 
guard David Sikora was sitting out his second 
game with a thigh injury.
There was no surprise in that the 
conference's leading scorer, John Carrolls 
Craig Huffman, led all scorers with 32 points. 
The surprise came as Carnegie Mellon Head 
Coach Larry Anderson went with only six 
players, and the Tartans upset the Blue 
Streaks, 73-72.
John Carroll features the PACs most potent 
offense, including three players averaging 15 
or more points per game, so it was no surprise 
that the Blue Streaks started gunning early.
Huffman, Andy Juhola, and Ray Millard 
opened up the floodgates from 3-point range. 
The trio launched 14 bombs, hitting eight of 
them, to take a commanding 41 -29 lead with 
5:52 to go in the first half. The Tartans had 
tried various methods to stop them; 2-3 and 1 - 
2-2 zones, and box-and-one defenses were all 
trid to no avail.
Where defense didnt work, Carnegie Mel
lon tried offense. Against a smaller John Car
roll roster, the Tartans controlled both the of
fensive and defensive boards. The Blue Streak 
offense soon became a one-shot offense and
John Carroll managed only seven more points 
that half.
Meanwhile, Carnegie Mellon discovered its 
own artillery launchers. Substitute starter 
Harvey Beckham and sixth-man David Smith 
hit three-pointers as the Tartans roared back, 
trailing 48-43 at halftime.
The second half started out as more of the 
Blue Streak show. John Carroll built its lead 
back to nine points when Carnegie Mellon 
called time out six minutes into the half. They 
traded speed for size, moving swingman Dar
ryl Long to guard and bringing in David Smith 
at forward. The move worked out very well.
Moving Smith in allowed the team to domi
nate beneath the boards. John Carrolls shoot
ing percentage dropped from 44% to 33%, 
while their three-point percentage plummeted 
from 57% to 30%. The Tartan's added height 
made rebounding for John Carroll nearly im
possible. They were only able to take one shot 
before being forced back down the court to set 
up on defense.
The Tartans mounted a 14-3 run to pul 1 ahead 
64-63 with 7:50 remaining, their first lead 
since 18-16 at the first halfs 14:03 mark.
John Carroll made it a one point game with 
1:24 when Huffman got points #31 and #32. 
The Blue Streaks then went to a press that 
forced the Tartans to turn the ball over with a 
ten second violation.
Scare number one ended when Andy 
Juholas shot fell short and Daren Moffatt was 
fouled, sending him to the line. However, 
Moffatt missed the front end of the one-andone, and with 36 seconds John Carroll had the 
ball and the last shot.
The tough Carnegie Mellon defense forced 
the Blue Streaks to call a second time out with 
ten seconds remaining. On the inbound, the 
ball went to Huffman who drove the lane, took
Hart Coleman floats in a layup as a brave Mike Millard tries in vain to block him.
the shot, and missed. Tom Franklin came 
down with the ball and held on with dear life. 
The Tartans had beaten one of the toughest 
teams in the conference, 73-72.
Senior captain Hart Coleman moved into 
fifth place among all Carnegie Mellon scorers 
with 25 points, giving him 1154 career points. 
Darryl Long added 16 points while Daren 
Moffatt chipped in 13.
This Week: The Tartans travel up to Green
ville to take on the 3-15 Thiel Tomcats tomor
row night. Earlier this season, Carnegie Mel
lon beat Thiel, 80-77, at Skibo Gym.
Saturday, the Tartans play their final home 
game of the season, against Grove City Col
lege. Two weeks ago, Carnegie Mellon lost to 
the Wolverines, 63-49. Grove City owns the 
conferences strongest defense.
photo by Ian Hall
Val Kwaitkowski puts a move on an opposing gaurd in an attempt to bring the ball up 
court. The women have won 6 of their last 7 games, falling to John Carroll last week.
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Staffwriter
Team effortwhen a group of people works 
together toward a common goal. The team is 
the Carnegie Mellon womens basketball 
team; the goal is winning. The Lady Tartans 
had their winning streak snapped at five by the 
Blue Streaks of John Carroll University on 
Tuesday evening, but they bounced back with 
an impressive win over University Athletic 
Association rival University of Rochester.
Saturday afternoon, the 11-10 Lady Yellowjackets of the University of Rochester 
buzzed into Pittsburgh for what appeared on 
paper to be a good game. The first half was 
highlighted by both teams playing strong and 
solid defense. Carnegie Mellon had a 22-14 
lead with 9:08 left to play when both teams hit 
a scoring dry spell. Not one shot fell through 
the hoop until Erica Hansen hit for the Univer
sity of Rochester almost five minutes later. 
The Lady Yellowjackets were able to come 
within four points of the Lady Tartans, but 
Carnegie Mellon ended the half with a 6 point 
lead, 30-24.
The second half started well for the Lady 
Tartans with a three-point bucket by junior 
Lisa Lightner, and it only got better. Carnegie 
Mellon outscored the University of Rochester 
39-24 in the second half, as well as out-hustling the Lady Yellowjackets. The final score 
was 69-48.
Eight of the nine Lady Tartans that played 
scored at least one point, but all ten contributed 
to the teams win. The only player not on the 
court for the Lady Tartans was junior Beth 
Virgin, who sat out Saturdays game because 
of an injury to her left foot. She is listed as 
probable for Wednesdays game against 
Thiel.
Leading scorers for the Lady Tartans were 
Lightner with 26 and junior Roseanna 
Neupauer with ten. Sophomore Donna 
Spicuzza successfully crashed the boards for 
Carnegie Mellon 11 times, with Lightner pull
ing down 9 rebounds. Carnegie Mellon shot 
.409 (27 of 66) from the floor and .684 (13 of 
19) from the free throw line.
The Lady Yellowjackets were paced by 
Jeanette Bubniak and Michele Wilson, who 
scored 12 points apiece. Kelly Connors and 
Sue Penepent each grabbed 11 rebounds.
Tuesday evening, Carnegie Mellon lost a 
game that could have put them in a tie for 
second place in the Presidential Athletic 
Conference.
The Blue Streaks of John Carroll University 
(7-1 PAC, 16-4 overall) blew the Lady Tartans 
off the court in the first half, scoring 34 points 
to Carnegie Mellons 19.
Both teams played very physically, with no 
one in foul trouble after 20 minutes of play. 
The major difference in the first half was that
continued on page 23

---------------------------------------------------

Dan Bidwa rates blares, bonks and bag
pipe playing
MUSIC..........................Page D2
70s TV CLASSICS.....Page D6
Give Mark Benish a 10 for his look back1 
to The Gong Show
The Tartan
IVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
VPir2e r7F8 8.7g rPm,.2e, 
P8 sci2P ouOKm7 ki21Pc
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Comedy Critic
Kurt Vonnegut once suggested that there 
should be a handbook distributed to all chil
dren to explain some of the basic principles of 
Aving on Earth. Though no one has ever 
completed such a handbook, George Carlin 
has produced what could have been the sequel. 
His most brilliant illustrations of universal 
human fears, functions, and desires should be 
permanently recorded and distributed to ev
eryone over thirty. He points out what weve 
done and why we shouldnt be worried about 
it. People are no mystery to Carlin; he explains 
?.iem with humor and shows us where to laugh 
at ourselves.
His audiences have come to expect his in
sightful, intriguing, informative perform
ances, and Carlin rarely disappoints the fans. 
Last Friday, the Syria Mosque filled up with 
intellectual humor devotees who anticipated 
an evening of hilarious truths. They went in 
patient and enthusiastic, unlike the Howie i_______________________________
He neatly explained the shortcomings and 
backwardisms of our leaders, saying that 
They want to put street criminals in jail to 
make it safe for the business criminals. 
Throughout the routine, he consistently re
ferred to the Reagan Administration in the 
same tone that one might use to refer to the 
Alternate Universe.
The response Carlin got for the line Ive had 
it with the fing church people! made it 
difficult to believe that Pat Robertson could 
have done as well as he did in the Iowa Cau
cuses. If they're going to be so involved with 
politics, let them pay taxes! he rationalized.
As usual, about 93% of Carlins material was 
new. Granted, most of it consisted of new 
jokes on his old themes, but after all, Carlin has 
talked about everything. He opened with a 
revised list of people he can do without, and he 
spent a long time discussing dogs and cats. The 
new pet material makes the old dog and cat 
routine seem scant by comparison. As usual, 
Carlin took the angle of peoples relationships
Cats are not appropriate for men... Men like 
something they can hit and itll stick around.
Mandel crowd that just went in rowdy. 
Mandels crowd left rowdy too, while Carlins 
people came out enlightened and entertained. 
In Carlins own words, Were all alike. Hes 
itae of us, only hes better at explaining it. To 
bend one of his jokes, Laugh at yourself, 
laugh at your neighbor, laugh at Carlin, cause 
basically theyre all the same guy.
The most outstanding feature of Fridays 
show was the delightful surprise of Carlins 
new political material. His comedy is usually 
void of all topical references, but this time hes 
gone all out against the Reagan Administra
tion and its merry band of mischief-makers.
with their pets. On men and pets, he says that 
cats are not appropriate for men because Men 
like something they can hit and itll stick 
around. Carlin also spoke of his own dog, 
Tippy, a mixed terrier whom Carlin insists was 
part Dodge Dart.
Anyone who follows modem stand-up com
edy knows that most of the comedians work
ing today do some kind of routine comparing 
cats and dogs. How does Carlin get away with 
such a mundane, overworked subject? By 
exploring it perfectly and completely. His is 
the definitive cats vs. dogs routine, going to 
every possible extreme to explain the peculi
arities of pets and their humans. Nobody does 
it like Carlin. Who else could talk for three 
minutes on cats cleaning themselves?
He also provided a new list of pieces of 
advice, this time on ways to keep other people 
alert. Carlin suggested these little tricks as 
mental gooses for people who are just a little 
too zoned-outfor people whose cheese fell 
off their cracker a long time ago... theyre just 
a couple of sandwiches short of a picnic. For 
instance, he suggested waiting in line at the 
bank to get change for a nickel.
His physical enactment of the waiting itself 
was enough to get the audience roaring. 
Carlins physical performance as a whole has 
improved over his last tours. Last time he 
barely moved, but at Fridays show he was all 
over the stage, miming every major emotion
and using a fascinating range of expressions. 
He also went without his glasses this time, 
donning them only to read the new and im
proved list of over 400 words you can't say on 
television or with remotely polite company or 
even with mostly impolite company.
As far as audience interaction is concerned, 
Carlin doesn't bother. Of the two or three 
times people actually yelled out to him from 
the Mosque balconies, he only responded 
once, and then it was with a joke hes been 
using for over ten years. Carlins fans dont 
pay to hear one another talk.
This time around, Carlin's special guest 
was a very special performer, Dennis Blair. He 
is the total music parody experience. Between 
his less prevalent but very powerful stand-up 
continued on page D3Drama Department presents Mary Barnes
By ERIKA L. PETERSON
Tartan Managing Editor 
Next week at Kresge Theater, the Carnegie 
%4ellon Drama Department will present Mary 
Barnes, written by David Edgar, and directed 
by Lee Sankowich. The show stars Carnegie 
Mellon senior Carina Fisher in the title role. 
Sankowich has directed three other shows in 
the Kresge Theater, including The Women, 
Marathon 33, and Portrait, in addition, he 
directed the Carnegie Mellon Repertory Thea
ter in Sunday in the Park with George, last 
fcear at the Pittsburgh Public Theater, and has 
directed several other PPT shows.
The true story of Mary Barnes, a British nurse 
until 1965, the action takes place in Kingsley 
Hall, a therapeutic community in East London 
introduced as a radical alternative to mental 
hospitals, and begins in 1965 as Mary enters 
the institute. The action centers around Mary 
and her progress through therapy, ...suspense 
Arises from the question of whether or not 
Mary will make it and become what society 
sees as a functioning human being,'' says di
rector Sankowich.
An ensemble piece, the show explores the 
shifting relationships between the patients 
and the therapists residing in an old house. 
The audience is drawn into this community, 
says Sankowich, It takes a while to figure out
Dennis Rees and Carina Fisher in a scene from Mary Barnes
whos who in this unusual group of charac
ters.
Ms. Barnes is currently an author and artist 
living in Devon, England, and is actively 
developing a therapeutic community for
people with mental problems similar to hers. 
She has also written two books, the second 
called Breath of Life and has had several exhi
bitions of her paintings in England and abroad. 
The show runs February 17-18 (previews),
19-20, and 23-37 at 8 pm, and February 20 and 
27 at 2 pm. Tickets are available through the 
CMU Box Office, located in the main lobby of 
CFA. open Monday thru Friday, noon to 5 pm. 
Call 268-2407 for info.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanFebruary 16,1988
A&js EE| jw C&MM9
Thursday, February 18
The Bicycle Thief
Reportedly, the best thing to come out of Italy since Benito Mussolini and linguine. It was 
shown at the Cannes Film Festival last year, and recieved much critical acclaim. A touching 
story about an impoverished father and son and the bicycle they rely on for their survival.
Its certainly better than those films with Ilona Staller, the breast-bearing pom queen who 
is now in the Italian Parliament.
Showtimes: 6, 8,10
Friday, February 19
Rocky
O.K., so the Rocky anthologies have taken some criticism for overkilling the idea. I know 
some people are sick and tired of all the Balboa Fu and will protest the making of Rocky V, 
in which Rockys son fights a Martian squared circle terror. But dont ignore the fact that 
Rocky is one of the finest cinematic constructs in history. The story is superb, the acting is 
top-notch, and John G. Avildsens Oscar-winning directing is without compare. It is funny, 
heart-warming, and inspirational. Take it from the Tartan 70s expert, this is the finest film 
of the 70s.
See it again, even if youve seen it a bezillion times like I have. Take a date, too (unless 
you want to take her to the zoo).
Starring: Sylvester Stallone, Talia Shire, Burgess Meredith, Burt Young, Carl Weathers 
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10,12
Saturday, February 20
The Rocky Horror Picture Show
Get out your water pistols and your raincoats. The cult film of cult films is back on campus. 
The plot is wacko (extraterrestrial vampires), the songs are provocative, and Venus Fly 
lingerie becomes a unisex fashion. Many surprising appearances by various people, such 
as Meat Loaf, who wins an Oscar for best performance by an 300-pound rock vocalist 
I dont have to encourage avid Rocky Horror fans to see this, but I would encourage 
anybody that has reservations to see it. The crowd is strange, but not unruly. And dont go 
swinging if you get hit in the side of the head by a piece of wet toast
Starring: Tim Curry, Susan Sarandon, Barry Bostwick.
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Sunday, February 21
Creepshow II
Heres a movie that fell flat on its face. Its in the same format (anthology) as its prequel, 
and has even less horror and humor than its forerunner. No CMU scenes, so theres no local 
interest in this one. If youre into Stephen King, see it. If youre not dont feel obliged.
Showtimes: 6, 8,10,12 
By MARK BENISH
&ueOS 1imgOS Pe1 pP,n2n7O6 
L7a27RO uF e7R gmO2T
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Music Critic 
A Good Night Out 
Test Department
While Test Department has retained their 
clanging heritage as one of the best industrial 
bands in the world, their sound has matured 
into something new. At the same time, theyre 
showing a stronger political stance than Ive 
noticed on their earlier albums, possibly due to 
the fact that they do more speaking on this 
album due to its live nature (Did I say it was 
live? Its live, recorded at a few of Test 
Departments concerts, which are supposedly 
amazing spectacles of music/noise/bombast.) 
The first song/presentation is basically a spo
ken piece from Jonathan Moores play Be
hind Heaven over some loud drum thumps 
and other stuff, and the rest of the first side 
continues in the same theme. However, the 
second side starts off with bagpipes, trumpets 
and drums playing a vaguely martial tune that 
sounds really familiar. It has a strangely 
threatening air to it, which shows up most 
obviously in the resounding boom of the 
drums. Its edited out on most of the next song, 
a reel called Cha Till Sinn Tuille," which 
translates as We Shall Return No More. The 
drums come crashing back towards the end of 
the song, and the band returns to form for the 
rest of the album.
This review may sound unkindly flip, but the 
album isnt deserving of ridicule. In fact, its 
some of the most intelligent music available, 
kind of like classical music for the politically 
aware. The band takes the social force of 
classical, its ability to storm without losing 
control of the musical image, and combines it 
with the social outrage of punk without self
parody. As a result, Test Department is able to 
deliver its Socialist message of human rights
with a calm impact. This is an album that 
everyone should hear.
Fishcotheque
The Jazz Butcher
This isnt jazz, and it isnt particularly inter
esting either. I think the main problem is that 
this LP should have been an EP, because the 
second side is good, but the first side is really 
dull. When hes good, he sounds kind of like ' 
Lloyd Cole, but most of this album isnt, and 
therefore doesnt sound much like anything, 
and isnt very memorable besides. In a word, 
blech. )
Tore Up
Tail Gators
After an overly long vacation, the Tail Gators 
have finally released another slab of their own 
patented version of rockabilly swamp rock.
They keep the basic rockabilly flavor, but they 
add things like fiddles and accordion and justslightly-grungy guitar, along' with a healthy 
dose of Cajun rhythms and harmonies, thL^> 
make the music the best thing since swing 
when it comes to dancing. Particularly worthy 
of note are songs like The Ballad of Stagger 
and Lily," a traditional song that is lovingly 
updated according to the Gators Cajun stomp, 
and Jungle Rock, which has a whomp-beat 
that will make the most sedentary soul bounce. 
Play it for all your friends or at parties - this is 
an instantly popular album. Unfortunately^ 
due to the severe limitations that major radio 
stations in the area are placing upon them
selves, the Tail Gators will have a hard time 
getting noticed. So, do something new and 
original - risk the five bucks and buy the 
album. (Actually, itll cost six or seven at 
Eides or Jims Records, but, if you dont like 
it youll be able to sell it for a couple bucks.) 
This group is worth the risk, and think hov 
much better youll feel. Really.
These guys are Test Dept, and you arent.
BIOENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS, READY FOR A CHANGE OF PACE?
The Air Force can make you an attractive 
offeroutstanding compensation plus 
opportunities for professional development. 
You can have a challenging practice and time 
to spend with your family while you serve your 
country. Find out what the Air Force offers 
bioenvironmental engineers.
Fue7i4
Call
Qapt Joseph T. Cooper 412-687-7325 Collect

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage D3
Carlin shook the 
Mosque Friday night
^continued from page D1bits, Blair used his guitar, his rubber vocal 
cords, and his wit to imitate over 25 pop 
singers in his act. Each singers voice, musical 
style, personality, and lyrical style are incor
porated in Blairs satirical stanzas in a variety 
of different premises. His sounds were accu
rate, and his words were biting. When the 
audience started yelling out the names of sing
ers, he responded with marvelous parodies of 
Tom Waite, Donna Summer, Neil Young, 
Mick Jagger, and tons more. Also, Blair is sure 
that every song on the Graceland album could 
be made into a commercial, and he gave us a 
sample of I'm going to K-mart, K-mart... 
Blairs best voice, however, was Bruee 
Springsteen. The Boss material has been part 
of his act for over five years, but now its hotter 
han ever. Blair has Bruce pegged, note for 
note, strum for strum, mumble for mumble. 
How appropriate that Springsteen himself will
* be playing Pittsburgh in March. If Blair ever 
records an album of full song parodies, dont 
think twice before buying it.
Carlin's albums seem to pop up after major 
tours like his current one. His last Pittsburgh 
appearance was one of the rehearsals for the 
laying With Your Head album. If an album 
comes out of this show, buy it to go along with 
your Dennis Blair collection. Meanwhile, if 
you find yourself zoning out, don't be sur
prised if a Carlin fan comes up and mentally 
gooses you by saying Excuse me, I have 
nothing to say.
Coming to Pittsburgh: Frank Zappa on Feb. 
25 and Bruce Springsteen on Mar. 20.
*
44 Mom says the 
house just isnt the 
same without me, 
even though its 
a lot cleaner.95
Just because your Mom 
is far away, doesnt mean 
you can t be close. You can 
still share the love and 
laughter on AT&T Long 
Distance Service.
It costs less than you 
think to hear that she likes 
the peace and quiet, but 
she misses you. So go 
ahead, give your Mom a 
call. You can clean your 
room later Reach out and touch someone *
AT&TThe right choice.
r--------------------------------------------
Jo Legget show
opens Wed. at
Silver Eye
PITTSBURGHPoetic License, a 
one-woman show by Pittsburgh photog
rapher Jo Leggett, opens February 17, 
1988, at the Blatent Image  Silver Eye 
Gallery on Pittsburghs South Side. The 
exhibition runs thought March 19, with 
an Artists Open Forum, Thursday, Feb
ruary 25, 8:00 p.m., at the Gallery, 1015 
East Carson Street. The Open Forum is 
an opportunity for the public to meet the 
artist and discuss her works.
Ms. Leggett is distinguished among 
Pittsburgh area photographers having 
won the Carnegie Museum of Art Pur
chase Award at the 1987 Associated Art
ists Annual Show. She has exhibited lo
cally at the Three Rivers Arts Festival, 
The Oakland Womens Center Women 
Photographers in Pittsburgh exhibition, 
the Silver Eye Photographic Workshop 
and the Photoimagers Guild.
Animals and enchantment, babies, 
children, teenagers, friendships, feel
ings, fears, curiosity, confusion, fairy 
tales, fanatasies, myths and reality have 
been solidly imbedded in my existence, 
says Leggett. My exploration of these 
phenomena with the camera, in retroJ spect, is a natural evolution. The emoi tional range of children, pets and barn
yard animals is intensely visual and often 
abstract. It is the rich fodder from which 
dreams and nightmares find their form. 
The beast is within us all.
The public is invited to attend an open
ing reception for Poetic License at the 
Gallery on Saturday, February 20th from 
7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
V The exhibition is supported by a grant 
form the Commonwealth of Pennsylva
nia Council on the Arts.
Bird-In-The-Hand Gallery to showcase three artists
PITTSBURGHWatercolors, pottery and 
pen and ink drawings will be the focus of an 
upcoming exhibit at the Bird-In-The-Hand 
Gallery in Sewickley. The works of three 
artists  Daniel Scott Armstrong, Jeffrey 
Moyer and Nancy McNary Smith  will be 
previewed at a cocktail reception on Friday, 
February 26, from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. The ex
hibit will run through Thursday, April 7,1988. 
Pen and Ink artist Daniel Scott Armstrong, 
bom in Pittsburgh, is a resident of Bethlehem, 
Pennsylvania. He is a 1977 graduate of the Ivy 
School of Professional Art in Pittsburgh. His 
one-man shows include a 1984 exhibit at La 
Galerie 87 in Rouen, France, and a 1985 show 
at the Designworks in Eugene, Oregon. Arm
strong is a past participant in the Three Rivers 
Arts Festival and the Associated Artists of 
Pittsburgh Annual Exhibition, where he won 
the 1986 Jurors Award.
Jeffrey Moyer developed his water color 
style during an extended stay in west rural 
Wales, following service as a Naval officer in 
Iceland, Norway and the United Kingdom. A 
graduate of Dickinson College in Carlisle and 
a resident of Washington, Pennsylvania, 
Moyer also provides a garden design, consul
tation and landscaping service. He is a mem
ber of the Associated artists of Pittsburgh and
the Pittsburgh Watercolor Society.
Nancy McNary Smith came to pottery 
through the back door. A New York prep 
school teacher by vocation, with a B.A. from 
Miami University (Ohio) and M.A. from 
Columbia University in British and American 
literature, clay work began as a way of filling 
up the summers. Pottery soon was added to her 
teaching responsibilities and by 1970, she was 
teaching pottery exclusively. In 1972, Smith 
moved to Pittsburgh and created her own stuPITTSBURGH - The 20-year-old American 
violinist, Joshua Bell, will perform in a solo 
recital for the Y Music Society of the Jewish 
Community Center on Sunday, February 28 at 
8:00 p.m. in the Morris Kaufmann Audito
rium, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., in Oakland.
Joshua Bell first gained national recognition 
when, at age 14, he became the youngest 
soloist ever to appear with the Philadelphia 
Orchestra on a subscritpion series. He has 
been awarded an exclusive 10-year contract 
with Decca/London records and his first re
cordings will include performances with 
Georg Solti conducting.
Samuel Sanders, one of Americas leading
dio, for production as well as teaching. She is 
an active member in the Craftsmens Guild of 
Pittsburgh and is a member, associated artist 
of the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. She has 
participated in many juried shows and fairs 
including the Three Rives Arts Festival, the 
Shadyside Summer Arts Festival, 
Craftsmens Guild Show, and the Pennsylva
nia Artists Accessories Exhibit.
The Bird-In-The-Hand Gallery is located at 
427 Broad Street in Sewickley.
nrPc P8 8.7 q
ensemble pianists will be collaborating with 
Mr. Bell on this recital. Mr. Sanders last per
formed for the Y in 1977 when he accompa
nied Itzhak Perlman. In addition he has col
laborated frequently with eminent artists such 
as Beverly Sills, Rostropovich, Pinchas 
Zukerman, Yo-Yo Ma, James Galway, and 
Isaac Stem.
The program will include Mozarts Sonata in 
B flat; Faures Sonata in A; Bachs Chaconne 
in D minor; Sibelius Romance and Mazurka; 
Bloch Nigun; and the Variations on an Origi
nal Theme by Wieniawski.
For more information or to order tickets 
please call the Y Music Society at 521-8010.
uO.mP $7rr 8u

---------------------------------------------------

February 21 The March on Washington
See a video about the March, and talk with a representative 
of the Pittsburgh March Committee about 
its effects thus far in the gay and lesbian community.
February 27 (Saturday)Bloomers
Instead of a regular meeting, we're planning on going out to 
dinner at Bloomers, a women's club on the South Side. 
We'll meet at 7:00 in Skibo 12. Be there!
February 28 Planned Spontaneity
We'll meet at our regular time, at our regular place, but after 
that...who knows? It might be dessert at Gullifty's, it might 
be bowling. Show up and find out.
EVENTS COMING UP IN MARCH 1988
March 18 The GALA Dance
The best dance on campus just keeps getting better.
All events, unless otherwise noted. will be held Sunday evenings at 7:30 in Skibo m 12. There are no admission fees, and everyone interested is welcome to attend. There are also weekly rap sessions on Sunday afternoons. For more information. contact us by campus or computer mail.
. Gay and Lesbian AllianceMellon c/o Skibo Information DeskCarnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213 Computer mail: GALA @ andrew
Funded by YOUR activities fee.
ALL RESIDENT STUDENTS
The Room Reservation procedure for the 1988- 
1989 academic year has been scheduled to be 
held during the 2nd and 3rd weeks of March 
1988.
All current residents who wish to be considered 1 
for University housing for the 1988-1989 aca
demic year must pay a $100 Housing Deposit 
between February 1st and February 25th, 1988. 
This deposit is to be paid directly to the Cashier's 
Office in Warner Hall. Please be sure to save 
your deposit receipt from the Cashier's Office 
since it will be necessary to show it in order to 
participate in the room reservation process in 
March.
During the month of February, we will be distrib
uting a brochure to all rooms in the residence 
halls outlining the specific room reservations 
procedures, as well as the appropriate dates and 
times for participation.
If you have any questions as we begin planning 
for next year, please feel free to contact us in the 
Housing Office.
oum? Volume8
Publi f/Ji$ pive
2,,Is 17,
Summer comes 
early in these
partsso do the Freshmen!
APPLICATIONS FOR ORIENTATION 
COUNSELOR AVAILABLE NOW!!
(At Student Affairs and Info. Desk)
LAST DAY FOR RETURN
FEB. 23, 1988 
Help lead us out 
of this confusion!!

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage D5
Joe Bob attacks Tony Randall
Last Week I was in New York City again, 
doing research on geek liberals, and I went 
down to 42nd Street and Times Square to 
check for slime and found out theres a fullscale Communist Assault going on, with 
THREE of the finest exploitation movieC, houses in America about to be condemned, 
closed up, rebuilt by guys that wear goat 
beards and wire-rim glasses, and given to 
gay symphony organizations to make 300 
bad PBS Specials a year. The lead Commu3
Joe-Bob Goes 
To The Drive-In
nist is Tony Randall, who came up with this 
plan where the city of New York is TAK
ING AWAY THE THEATERS FROM 
THEIR RIGHTFUL OWNERS, including 
the one thats been showin Three Giant 
Kung Fu Hits for the last 10 years. The city 
says theyre CONDEMNED, but they dont 
$.tear em down. They give em to lesbian 
ballet companies to put on shows called 
Asphalt: A Retrospective.
This kinda thing couldnt have happened in 
the golden days of The Deuce. On the day 
that Make Them Die Slowly premiered, 
they had to bring in mounted police to 
control the line that went around the block. 
IF youd walked up to those people and 
f said, Hey, Mayor Koch says you 
shouldnt be watchin this stuff. You need to 
be attending plays about Vietnam veterans 
that yell at their mothers all the time and 
then commit suicide  if youd told those 
people that, Ill TELL you what would of
happened. You would of had some Bernhard 
Goetz Treatment on every wheelchairbasketball theater company in New York.
But theyve been having these hearings for 
several months now, where Tony Randall 
comes and talks about the cultural zone 
hes gonna create where the great 42nd 
Street theaters used to be, and where Mary 
Tyler Moore comes and talks about how she 
just LOVES Times Square and how shed 
like to go on taking peoples money forever 
for the Broadway shows she puts on about 
middle-aged women whining at one another, 
and usually the New York subscribers to the 
Joe Bob Briggs newsletter show up and sit 
on the back row and try to get the chairman 
of the committee to listen to their statistical 
comparisons of a) how many people go to 
these theater to see Slave Girls From 
Beyond Infinity," and b) how many people 
WOULD go to these theater to see an 
Iranian acrobatic troupe perform the love 
theme from Das Boot. You see, the 
numbers are on our side.
Speaking of zombies on Broadway, Return 
of the Living Dead Part II came out a few 
days back and had James Karen and Thom 
Matthews robbing a cemetery in one of the 
first scenes  even though they ALREADY 
got turned into brain-eating zombies in Part 
One. You know, its this kind of stuff that 
makes you not trust the movies anymore, 
like they hired the guys and then said 
Whoops! You know what? This story 
doesnt make SENSE! but then decided, 
Oh, well, nobodyll notice. We NO
TICED. These guys cant get zombified. 
They already GOT zombified. Its like 
casting John Wayne and Liberace in a 1988
movie. It wouldn't be a PRETTY 
sight.
Anyhow, what happened is that 
evidently three or four cans of the 
secret zombie gas SURVIVED the 
nuclear explosion at the end of 
Part One, and now some Bozo 
Army truck drivers bounce a can 
of it into a suburb where some 
little kids open it up and watch it 
seep into the cemetery, where 
zombies claw their way up through 
the dirt and start demanding brain 
salads. The only people that can 
stop the world from being taken 
over are a 12-year-old, his aerobic 
leotard sister, and, of course, a 
cable TV installer. Their plan  lure the 
zombies to an electric power plant by 
leaving a trail of cow brains, then hose em 
down, hit the juice, and barbecue em from 
the gizzards out.
The question you got to ask yourself in any 
good zombie movie, though, is, What kills 
the zombies? In Night of the Living 
Dead, the only thing thatll kill em is a 
gunshot to the brain. In The Evil Dead, 
you got to have total dismemberment  
arms, legs, head, everything.
I only got one thing to say about these latest 
zombies  total dismemberment doesnt 
work. You ever try to kill a snake with a 
hatchet?
Thats what its like.
Zombie-rama. No breasts. (New disturbing 
trend in horror flicks.) 16 dead bodies. 27 
undead bodies. 143 living dead bodies. 
Head-hacking. Heads roll. Hands roll. 
Fingers roll. Zombie aerobics. Multiple
The director of Living Dead II is on the left.
brain eating. Spike through zombie heart. 
Shotgun to the zombie face. First recorded 
instance of someones face being punched 
out  literally. Gratuitous aerobics. 
Gratuitous pet-eating. Screwdriver through 
the ear Fu. Screwdriver to the throat Fu. 
Drive-In Academy Award nomination for 
Suzane Snyder, for excellent whining, right 
up until the moment her brains are chewed 
up by her boyfriend, and for saying Joey, 
Im NOT into dead guys; Philip Bruns, as 
Doc Mandel, for diagnosing two zombies as 
having chronic intractable rigor mortis; 
Thor Van Lingen, as Billy the child zombie 
for saying You told, you told, now you die 
like me; and Marsha Dietlein, as the Jamie 
Lee Curtis survivor, for saying Theyre 
ugly and theyre dirty and theyre dumb and 
I dont care even if they ARE dead, theyre 
not touching ME.
Three stars.
Joe Bob says check it out.
81
Now you can publicize more effectively using 
the new designated bulletin board network.
Designated Events boards are located in the front of Baker, Doherty, Wean, Skibo 
Grey Matter and Margaret Morrison (near Skibo).
Advertise books, stereo equipment, concert tickets on the new Buy/Sell/Trade 
board across from the bookstore.
Have an apartment to rent, looking for a room-mate, have some furniture you want to 
sell? Post it on the new "Housing board in Skibo (near the Ballroom). 
The Designated bulletin board network is a pilot project initiated by the Campus 
Affairs Committee of Student Senate. Ideas for further improvement of the network 
would be greatly appreciated.. 
Funded by the Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page D6The TartanFebruary 16,1988
A.7 ,ue, RPO r27 P R7Pnue 2e 8.7 .Pe1O uF L7Y L771
I love the USA Cable Network. I mean, what 
other network would show such classic shows 
as Temperatures Rising, The Second Hundred 
Years, or Airwolf on a consistent basis and not 
die of embarrassment? What other network 
would show the World Wrestling Federation 
for two full hours on prime time? (NBC only
70s TV 
Classics
withMark Benish
showed it for one hour. What wimps). Fans of 
classic television should cancel their dona
tions to the Joan Van Ark Museum Foundation 
and send those dollars to the USA Network 
immediately. It is the way for fans of low-rated 
television series to best show their gratitude to 
the institution that keeps these shows on the 
air.
One of the best of this genre of shows is The 
Gong Show. When 1 was a youngster, I used to
tune in because I thought the show was the 
most raucous show I had ever seen. Never 
before had I seen people get in front of a 
national audience and make complete fools of 
themselves for everyones entertainment. And 
Im not just talking about the contestants. The 
judges and hosts brought new levels of silli
ness to American television. This is the way a 
talent show should be run. Ed McMahon, 
listen up.
The show ran from 1975 to 1980, the first 
three on NBC and the last two in syndication. 
The host of the show was Chuck Barris, whose 
wise-acre nature made him a perfect host for 
this kind of show. John Barbour of Real 
People fame was supposed to be the original 
host, but he was bumped right before the airing 
of the show. It may have been an upper brass 
change, inasmuch as this show was a Chuck 
Barris production. Other Chuck Barris pro
ductions were The Dating Game and The 
$1.98 Beauty Show.
The most recognizable big stars of the show
were the judges. These folks took their silli
ness seriously. The gamut of panel judges ran 
from the naturally hilarious Arte Johnson to 
the straight-laced Rex Reed. All of the judges 
performed their share of comedy, whether it 
was Jaye P. Morgans bawdy humor or Reeds 
dry wit. Among the best judges not mentioned 
thus far are Jamie Farr, Pat McCormack and 
Pat Pulsan. (Pulsan is the finest actor ever to 
have run for president. He may have done a 
better job than the one that succeeded.)
My favorite two personalities on The Gong 
Show were two regulars on the show, The 
Unknown Comic and Jean, Jean the Dancing 
Machine. The Unknown Comic was a come
dian that wore a paper bag over his head and 
had some of the funniest one-liners in the 
history of man. One of my favorites is Heres 
my impression of the first man to land on the 
sun, after which he would hop around be
cause he had hot feet. Jean, Jean the Dancing 
Machine was a random, overweight, black 
fellow that they pulled from the stage crew
STUDENT DISCOUNT
The Philip Pclusi salons offer great savings 
to students. Get the internationally acclaimed 
Volumetric haircut and related services for just
!$14.95 <
(Men and Women)* 2
Every haircut appointment includes consultation, 
shampooing, conditioning, blow dry and styling.
Present your student ID to receive your discount. Not valid 
with any other offer and does not include a haircut by 
Philip Pelusi. ^
Village Square Mall 833-6770 ^Squirrel Hill 521-1200 
One Oxford Centre 261-6550 Century III Mall 655-1940m
Village Square Mall 833-6770 Westmoreland Mall 836-6670 
Ross Park Mall 366-1555
Open Evenings and Sundays. (Not open Sunday Oxford Salon only). Appointments not always necessary.
LONDON*
jwAELws&jDs
WASHINGTON
LONDON
 Art/Architecture  Business/Economics  Engineering  Human/Health Services 
 Joumalism/ComfTHjnications  Visual/Performing Arts  Politics
WASHINGTON
 Politics  Business/Economics  Pre-Law  International Relations 
_________  Joumaltsm/Communcations  Health Fields  The Arts  Speciality
All programs include 16 semester-hour credits, full-time internships, centrally-located apartments, 
individualized placements fa virtually every academic interest.
_______________________Participants must have junior or senior status; 3.0/4.0 gpa.
BOSTON UNIVERSITY
NAME__
ADDRESS
CITYJ__
SCHOOL _
(617) 353-9888 Internship Programs, 725 Commonwealth Avenue B2, Boston, MA 02215
STATEZIP.
PHONE
? LONDON ? WASHINGTON
REPRESENTATIVE ON CAMPUS 
Tuesday, February 23 12 noon -1 pm Skibo
who spun around in circles to a jazzy song by 
the band. The fact that a man like this became 
a celebrity is a testimony to The Gong Show's 
dedication to the absurd.
But the real laugh-getters were the acts. 
Stomach patters, sink players, water gurglers, 
and bad animal acts were the embodiment of 
this show. An occasional half-decent act 
would appear in a noble attempt to win the 
$516.32 prize, but most of the acts that came 
on were for laughs only. Among my favorite 
acts were Kilroy, the man with the psycho
pathic bird puppet, and the group of guys that 
did Im a Lumberjack and Im O.K. The best 
part about such acts was watching how far 
theyd go before they would get gonged.
The Gong Show is not on any network chan
nel or independent channel currently. Youre 
going to have to go to a friends house and 
catch it on the USA Network. It may be a pain 
for you, but its a blessing for others. I mean, 
if it were on regular TV, what would USA 
Network do for material?
Unusual paintings 
showing at Forbes
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to Diversions 
Opening tonight at the Forbes Gallery 
is the senior show of artists Lycia Trouton and Jim Wei. Ms. Trouton will be 
exhibiting paintings and sculpture and 
Mr. Wei will be showing paintings and 
drawings.
Unconventional Duality
Both Lycia Troutons paintings and 
sculptures are large in scale, made from 
stiffened canvas, tar, rubber matting, 
burlap and wire. While the paintings do 
hang on the wall in the traditional way, 
they are not typical as Trouton explains, 
Ive left the conventional stretched 
canvas paintings in favor of hanging, 
draped work. She has developed the 
pieces in this way, feeling that soft hang
ing forms deny the traditional structure 
imposed on them as they are not defined 
by hard edges or a square frame. Says 
Trouton, I hope to involve my audience 
actively and open them by bringing my 
work into the space with unconfined 
edges and loose structure.
In sculpture, Trouton constructs soft 
forms from found materials. Using 
discarded materials from our modem 
lifestyle, she remarks, allows me the 
freedom to make personal statements 
about todays world.
Much of the theme running through 
Troutons work is concerned with the 
double-sided nature of relationships. 
There are always two sides, she 
states,that which is soft and comfort
able and that which can stab and hurt, 
producing wounds. The contrast of 
these aspects intrigues her and she has 
produced many images on this theme. Trouton hopes to encourage and seduce 
the viewer with sensual soft forms and 
interesting surface textures. She also, 
however, tries to confront the viewer in 
a visual attack with the large scale of her 
work and hard, aggressive spike forms. 
Ms. Troutons work is built using 
crude, simple methods of construction 
and the found materials which have al
ready been used, or are associated with 
other activities. Trouton feels that the 
materials she uses bring the art work to 
a simpler, more human level.
A  this point and in the future, Ms. 
Trouton sees her work becoming more 
direct, I feel I can only go so far with 
process and expression, she remarks,I 
want the forms to be clear.
Jim Wei was unavailable for comment.

---------------------------------------------------

lWrte MATCHfNO 
FROM ft BOVS " PRIMCY Id HISTORY ' poes ANVBomcm? WHERE MU IT CBAD?/ 
HUo ?
So what is a movie 
parody?
Well, it can...or....actually should be an original 
bogus advertisement based on a motion picture. For 
example; FATAL INFECTION "a sick love story" 
starring Michael Virus and Glenn Barf, with a visual 
pun of the real movie advertisement. We don't care if 
its somewhat rude, gross, or perverted as long as it is 
still ORIGINAL! If you think your creation is 
skull-splittingly funny, TURN IT IN!!!
THE YUPPIE tPREAM 1$
FROFM BtNney.Mt? iAM ASHA Met? I MAS A TOO-WILUNO PARTlClfflNT IN imSC PH/WTDM
icm irNO MOte / HOG?
merr/iu,/
3VY YOU % CHOCOLATEOVJN * vmLLA 7 FALSZ /
fRtR B VS "ROTHfEEEMY FVRTUA/E... MY MATERIAL &RIP ON THE HOCUHU VALUES OF TH/5 EMPTY 6E/VERATTO/V
MERE*
FROM AN "ACTS OF 60P " YUPIYUA1$NUM 1n$ney .?I1 
fOiR-WH LRRme sum lC-mR /$D 1&5/6P /6I1 1n6IUE
200 POUNPS. //,You say that you don't like doing comics in black and 
white? We're giving you a rare opportunity to do 
these parodies in IFUJLIL COLOIR1 That's right, when 
you turn your parody into the Tartan office by 
MARCH 1st have it rendered in full color ( ex. design 
markers, pantone, etc.) so it can be printed in color.
If you have any questions call Grant at ext. 4534 or 
leave a message at the Tartan office ext. 2111, Skibo
room 50.
NO POU0T, A PISTVfWNG REVELATION TO ALL THOSE CLANDESTINE CRIME-COMMITERS.
P0WJREAZE THEY'VE OOT PHOTO SATELLITES UR THERE THAT CAN SEETHE COLOR OF OUR EYES...
...NOT TO MENTION US SURREPTtVOUS NOSE PICKERS.
By Kurt ShawInkspots
OH, YOU KNOW. THOSE UOLY UTTLE MINOR THNOS ME ALL PO... BL/T NOT IN FRONT OF EACH OTHER _ (rROSS TH/N6S~_ME NEVER IMAGINEI \ CHRISTIE I V BRUKLEY \ A MNb MJT \4jj^TMT5t
M ML
I'm TOUNPERSTANP YOU PO
THESE THINGS f
OUVER TOLP ME. THEY HAVE SATELLITES THAT CAN SEE OS. ANYTIME. 
VOINO THtNOS u/HATIN PRIVATE ms?
mwreTHIN05 / YOU KNOW /
LIKEWHAT
SORRY 1 REALLY PO APPRECIATE THE RAMIFICATIONS1 v sn/ 7 SATELLITES' #/ / SNEAK IN Y ft IAROUNP... PEEKIN' / U POMN TAKtN f / PICTURES.. THE ii ^RAMIFICATIONS V L^y) AREKNEEJ IK-V B06GCIN6'
U/CK.'
WtiCMTWe find the defendant guilty, however, we give his lawyer an overall ten 
for best television commercial."
BLOOM COUNTY by Berke Breathed kme171 pc Carana

---------------------------------------------------

jkoo o0yoo?VjI yx MAX 
C$c FFr8Pe, &Pg2FY72DOo
^ Joia pns^w 
aM
hweao i*Pffu p6^ (1
MAO
m
vW.U
boints i$ a cow ? 
(^\CCoL/ ,J/r -
y&Xcorfrerd vi/T\1.1hal-an0 Av-v4KlL/viwh^ane ^ taonna <fc> CMUs
A\a<s?
>ell be C.00L 
jn -H..Stdeser+e^ 
,+own, J5uP".
vsS^^vx
yy\a(Voer gf4- si#*'
Jee/p
so, We leave
ffedAv anal 
Tt) i/iernv^fc.Urtktah^ 
4o bfl+h erfrtem, an
CVi ( btf na 
J>\&raudtr^
dickies scum 
fhem -ftangrfedl 
P$4heir texf____________________________ Vlch^S...
yfcNa/U gCilMU Mot / OH~*hi-h.. H-s
^afrer m-Vke, vvyood^P
6<l II, <Ao X-^e( |i(ce
iver? 3^^ be .-KuqM bAl +lft'*lK I 3<sv>rv^ 
TlasU loQC^.^j
ex qai
Stripe
nxite i TheSABERS
7^ra(U'fVh
&S*IS 
[loi, ^islVU^ -vr_____^ ouc Aa^i m +kt rf ,-4. /JTcW^^T orftV<xAc\<N ^ i ^ V^'J
WDM...
fr\y, jwce.anal
S+IGffi. Yess-#.
H*i~; Bc(ort *BruC.\e 
and -the ^umfrangers 
yV Qcl^w ~h> cyrfo
OC p W(XACX<^\jy'
A<-$
*MiH
rts vC2m8n_,w -Prom hour o^DihilN
HrilfTR5=F----------1 rtow'sit 9*'*^>1 h
X<^f
NO, MNOV 5
We
U5
guys, Noto>31^^ <x hand
Wl+h
Bnw
XJXMvKweeigee
MFsH
^^ cue Vport 
ofp
ardA
H CKPiVaS MACHO, 
IGNORMT HEROS. HE 
tfEEVS 8EK. DlfJ6, 
fLHTUATlMr ^,1
HOTSHOTSi R,6Htl
/N' Wl/, Vv T/J E 
YOU TO/ RECE/JT 
DEPARTMEHTAL MEET!Kb 
OF THE CREATIVE FOMS 
OF MJ ESTEimZES, 
'fmiTt Fe mss' brurary1s
ile MUST 6lVf THEWl 
'8urrfW6". IVW7 
c*jcjT0e"  "Diets
DUDES$djHfc
GUT5 Wf Nf2) 7o 5ffloury 
EVALUATE jYor
CMC

---------------------------------------------------

Overload By Bob Jenkinsthe twnCtnY House Horec,>Kie of THe Less Re<K06oM esTASnsHMeKirs oo 'ib^s/o
P^HAHi THe DOORS AWD ^ 
fWlNJCotOS afeKe Al.ARMep, 
So i JUST GOT THGoUC*H 
THg u)AU_ UJITH MV HANDY FU>A/t~ P&?P/TRAToR . Wffe7?i a.oTjonCjoF
AT LAST i ITWAS 
HARD, BUTWe 
RNJISHED IT.
U1MXMXM
TgMrggATlJg 235 K:LJgATHCKet.ev/ArioMsee THey 5T|LL HAVe The forchTheSoft wfa6ooc>.' 6oot>\)
rue r5AS0Re 
of thc Theart
TUB! **> SOUP 
60U>RAKS OF nrhiI i'll MAK5 A CtA*l v GCTAUJAV! .
klo HArrei?.
coRt&KTTH6fte(ybyod
(.ATITUP6OpenEvpig
SRPfJCQS
tyaFtub869
S PnmuO6R T
f'JTW=
iKF76oopjWAITTW(S SAYS W HADTe Do 
?l.l-Mj NOT *11.-H .
foRyjHi
LET'S GET t<? rne Musem
The Result is HilarityiBy Cliff Snider
LOOKS
b$ UilHam Barnes 3^6 Matfctew DiamondTHE*, X POMT MNK 
X KNJOtd yOtL/ M3 NWfc'S
V /"Hi,
PHIL. "DP^E L.T . fv\e its) / j
WELL, THANKS FOfc COM(K)GTO
OOfc OSH PAG-T*, PHIL ___^WHflr's vioue. NiAJofc?
\ J
OH ^AH? X U>AS PR8-LAG0 
FOR A COUPLE. OF U)8KS  
what's yooiL AeeA op 
--------------1 /NTLfcfcST ? T
I'M GOIM6 KILL VOVL, DA\/E ...__-
' LC6 R6MT5
yOt'fct OMb
a^gest. Does 
THIS MSfWI
OJOM^T 6T A
V 8lT>? >/
rffr/r,frr"/?.
' DH, STATE > 
LlQOOfc LALO e^FORccr^tKJr^
x Learrnnn y
s/I WORDS LIKE 
7 4 3Uiim,5, DORKS j*>

---------------------------------------------------

T"W'y'o TO 
K^Jo 'ul. _<3SeF
Oo5 w__ r'o
ATe 7o Ff 5 rcL 
/ *S /R PoM 0>
T7t/> T~ 5T??6-aJ/W rf
enus - /= 6*o CA r
&
<*>*
oV*
Vi
v**
epp\x
f&otK'fotfoer F27RF2,

tamsrer?
vh 'fcr'^i 3^1 What did 1HaW&hT,2F4|> ru7g22Rruu<27#
X...I JetTte ~1 &nSas if/ Tv^|? tatise
arid i> j^S+j:happet. fw or\ -the, dreSSino room floor.
He Poas -theM, sillV I aSlI'iLE LU6KV STRIKE CAN 
UA^T AUU WE^'
60/ IP Vo^'REmV^To tPOWN, TWE 5R6Eoi^ 6SNRAL p&zwtAdrJPS THAT Voc; B&jDM A HAMS%R |N\N\EPlATEl^.
paxxre
fetore has order. Sine has a 
IanHe Was des-b'ned >r Hams+^ness -ircm day ore -"-M/gjWmmmlLLmJiLmk S__V -milQ^WDSr(ueshote. Mowr tvxuW, ma, nwstor or AMyroiti& at au,? wbie To "tomit*m"- *c* two mobswosy campus mail. ( 
^ i'u. vo w wr tte A*&we*-me* m tvtvue ihstkuaents.  -/V Ava**-")
lllMWWMiHIMM <srBIM!M$ wfi mUmm mz w& --------------^
C
neg
iate
fO

tU
of
d
ACROSS
1 Reef
6 Ancient Italian
12 Well-balanced
13 --- grounds
15 Notorious queen 
(2 wds.)
18 Small demon
19 Mends20 Japanese money
21 Spanish rivers
23 Proverb
24 Sneaker part
25 Speed unit
26 Slangy diamonds
27 Roman road
28 Hygienic
31 Tourist accessory
33 Boston ---
34 Distort35 College lecturer 
38 Free fxom impurit
42 Words termination
43 Trigonometry abbreviation
44 Japanese monastery
ge lecturer nun
tfc=b 1 Gets ofaP 8 ----
45 --- antique
46 Makes the first bid
48 Half of movie team
49 Mr. Whitney
50 Part of a carpentry 
joint
51 Suffix for real
52 Well-known general 
(3 wds.)
57 Having floors
58 Those beyond help
59 Sweet60 A great number of
DOWN
1 Endurance
2 Barbed spear
3 Part of a kimono
4 Fermented drink
5 You can ---
horse...
cake 
Get upvlvant 
Suffix for attract
10 Potassium ---
11 One who allures
12 Certain smiles
14 Biological classes
16 Points opposite to 
the zenith
17 "Best Actor" of 
1938
22 Payment 
24 Marine mollusks
29 Suffix for simple
30 Likely31 College in L.A.,
Southern ---
32 College major
34 Sift, as grain
35 Greg Louganis, 
et al.36 Spotted cats
37 North American deer
38 Wicked person
39 Laid a new floor
40 Pencil parts
41 --- "Inferno"
43 --- Gonzales
46 Fine fur
47 Becomes tanijled
53 Work unit
54 Inlet55 Bird of Mythology
56 Watson and Crick 
discovery
Edward Julius Collegiate CW8713

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage Dll
Jessye Norman sings with Pgh. Symphony
By LORI MAURER
Tartan Music Critic
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, under 
the direction of Charles Dutoit, guest conduc
tor from the Montreal Symphony Orchestra, 
presented a program this weekend which inveluded Schuberts Symphony No. 3 in D Ma
jor, Strauss Four Last Songs and 
Rachmaninovs Symphonic Dances. Jessye 
Norman, acclaimed Soprano in her Pittsburgh 
Symphony subscription concert debut, was 
the featured soloist.
Opening with Schuberts Symphony No. 3 in 
D Major, Dutoit and the orchestra were obvi
ously very comfortable with each other and the 
v piece, yet still gave it a fresh interpretation. 
The first movement, Adagio maestoso was 
particularly strong as the melody alternated 
between the strings and the woodwinds with 
almost undetectable transitions.
Allegretto, the second movement of 
Schuberts work, also was enhanced by re
markable work in the woodwinds, particularly 
in the clarinet solo which was reminiscent of a 
 yodelling tune, probably influenced by 
Schuberts love of the Austrian Alps. 
Menuetto: Vivace, the third movement, pri
marily consisted of a dolce between the oboe 
and bassoon with a light string accompani
ment. The Orchestra effectively brought 
across the peasant dance theme of this move
ment but many of the solo oboe entrances were 
awkward and delayed.
# The Symphony compensated for the awk
wardness of the third movement with an in
vigorating performance of Presto vivace, the 
last movement. Dutoit and the Symphony 
emphasized the contrast between the Austrian 
peasant dance theme of the third movement
with the Presto, an imitation of the Italian 
musical forms dominant in Vienna in the early 
nineteenth century.
The next selection in the Symphonys pro
gram was Strauss Four Last Songs which 
featured an electrifying and expressive per
formance by Jessye Norman, guest Soprano. 
These four songs, considered to be the most 
intimate music that Strauss ever wrote, were 
indicative of the cycles of life. The four songs, 
entitled Frhling (Spring), September, Beim 
Schlafengehen (Going to Sleep) and Im Aben
drot (In the Glow of the Evening), represented 
Strauss farewell in his final work with their 
traditional form and nostalgic lyricism.
The Symphony and Norman united to give an 
amazingly ardent performance of these songs. 
Norman exuded a commanding stage pres
ence from the moment that she appeared in 
front of the audience. Her performance in the 
first movement, Frhling (Spring), was al
most hypnotic in its beauty and the emotional 
intensity. Throughout all four songs, Norman 
was immersed in her performance even when 
she was not singing. She could vacillate be
tween a powerful forte and a quiet dimuendo 
with ease. Dutoit and the orchestra enhanced 
her performance with their effective expres
sion of dynamics and the melancholy nature of 
Strauss last work. In the last song. Im Aben
drot (In the Glow of the Evening), Norman 
ended her performance with a flawless di
muendo, in which her solo ended and Strauss 
expressed the fading away of life. Normans 
performance brought her an enthusiastic 
standing ovation from the audience.
Jessye Normans electrifying performance 
was a delight but certainly not a surprise from 
a soprano with a background like hers. Edu
cated at Howard University, the Peabody 
School of Music and Michigan University, 
Norman began her career in her operatic debut 
in 1969 as Elisabeth in Tannhauser and con
tinued to command impressive roles in opera 
companies throughout the world. This year, 
Norman will return to the Metropolitan Opera 
in Ariadne auf Naxos and will engage in a 
lengthy and extensive worldwide recital tour.
The program concluded with Rach
maninovs Symphonic Dances. This piece 
was originally intended to be titled Mid-day, 
Twilight and Midnight and to be choreo
graphed as a ballet. Like Strauss Four Last 
Songs, Rachmaninovs Symphonic Dances 
was the last piece that he composed in his 
lifetime and was a representation of the cycles 
of life: childhood, maturity and old age. 
Rachmaninov decided against using a ballet to 
represent the meaning of his music, letting it 
stand out on its own.
Dutoits sensitive conducting and the 
Symphonys outstanding performance made 
this piece the perfect conclusion to the remark
able program. Non allegro, the first move
ment, featured breathtaking woodwind solos 
by the alto saxophone, flute, and oboe. In
particular, the alto saxophone was mesmeriz
ing in its expression of the distinct and haunt
ing melody of this movement.
The second movement, Andante con moto 
(Tempo di valse), was a waltz melody and the 
Symphonys coordination between the full 
orchestration of this movement was incred
ible. Dutoit was successful in bringing to
gether the strings, woodwinds and brass in an 
effective rendering of this dance-influenced 
movement.
Lento assai - Allegro vivace, the last move
ment, is, on the surface, a radiant piece. 
However, under the main melody of the Or
chestra, there is an eerie undercurrent indica
tive of the movements original name, Mid
night,and Rachmaninovs expression of the 
end of life. Dutoit guided the Orchestra 
through the intricacies of this movement al
though, at times, the chimes in the percussion 
section were overbearing. For the most part, 
however, the inclusion of a number of percus
sion instruments in this last movement was 
remarkable, and enhanced the performance. 
Overall, this movement and Rachmaninovs 
Symphonic Dances were a good choice to 
conclude a remarkable evening of music.
Edi.omdjSm Staff Meeting
L ut heranUiv hsyisr CooaAp 
lerci taff ai
#
$
The London 
Theatre Program
ef SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE and the 
BRITISH AMERICAN DRAMA ACADEMY
at Regenfs College, Rigfenfs Park, London_________
A unique opportunity for college students to study 
with Britains leading actors and directors. Acting study 
and performance, supplemented by academic work. Full 
academic credit is provided for either a semester or a year. 
For details and an application, call (914) 337-0700 or write: 
The London Theatre Program, Box BCMU 
Sarah Lawrence College, Bronxville, N. Y. 10708.
Great Expectations  Where precision haircutting is a tradition, as well as an art. and at 
affordable prices.WITH THIS COUPON ^save $2.00 na
* Di7T2O2ue &P2iTm8 complete with shampoo ft blow style
I now only $13.00|^,s February 29. 1988_________CKKCTtTMftSj
SATISF^T rTGUAPANTE E" ^
Great Styles Start at...
''* **!** APPCNNTMfN? WCJtCflTVwDT7eggOpptasiON HAiPcunfRs237 Atwood Street
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
Store Wide Sale
Rubber Cement 
Technical Pens 
Books T-Squares 
Artist Color
Templates20% OFF
on everything in the storeCompasses Tables
Opaque Projectors
Sorry, Telephone and Mail Orders Do Not Apply 
Offer Only Applies To Materials Purchased In Our Downtown Retail Store
323 Boulevard of the Allies Pittsburgh, Pa 15222 (412) 281-2133
Pittsburgh Jung Society presents
("The Way of the Preamp)
20 1/2 hour films that explore the Jungian 
interpretation of dreams with Marie-Louise Franz.
Friday, March 18 7-10:30pm
Saturday, March 19 9am-12noon, 2-5pm 
Sunday, March 20 1-5pm
Carnegie Mellon Gregg Hall (PH100)
Ticket price: $1.50
Advance price (before February 17): $1.21 
Registration limitedCall 682-8172
Pittsburgh Jung Society  5654 Darlington Rd.* Pittsburgh, PA 15217_______-............... ........... ... . .......... ,

---------------------------------------------------

The Housing Office is now accepting applications from groups 
of students who would like to be considered for residency in 
one of the 4 Special Interest Houses.
Each Special Interest House is a 4-bedroom, 8-person apartment 
in the Margaret Morrison complex. In order to be eligible for 
consideration as a Special Interest House, a student group must 
have at least eight members and two alternates.
The specific goal of the Housing Office in providing the Special 
Interest Houses is to encourage situations where the living 
environment complements the learning opportunities of the 
residents involved and where specific educational goals outlined 
by the member-resident are understood and enhanced.
All interested groups must submit an application and schedule an 
interview with the Special Interest House Selection Committee. 
The committees decision will be based on a comparison of the 
educational goals presented and the likelihood of serious 
educational benefit being derived from residency in this type 
of living situation.
Application forms are currently available in the Housing Office.
Application Deadline: 
Friday, February 26th
Informational meeting on majoring and double-majoring in
History 
Applied History 
European Studies
Wednesday, February 17, 5:00 P.M.
BH254A
Pizza will be served.
m) vfrk a
U IT, 7 * 3
 ? /\X\ #**
mm**?-b 
t0
fix
th U tz k: v * * : f
0^fnT\
U1z*k')<7 )\sHi##) 
Tl'o
RECRUIT CO., LTD. has 
been instrumental in the 
development of Japans 
information service industry.
In RECRUITS Tokyo, Los 
Angeles and New York offices, 
challenging work in such 
fields as telecommunications, 
super-computing and 
publishing awaits you.
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL OUR TOLL-FREE NUMBERS OR WRITE TO :
<? RECRUIT U.S.A., INC.
65 E. 55th St. 34th Floor 725 S. Figueroa St., 31st Floor
New York, NY 10022 Los Angeles, CA 90017
(212) 750-6100 (N.Y.) (800) 325-9759
(800) 782-7856 (Other States)
Both Attention to TWR-TG COORDINATOR
SUMMER PROGRAMS OFFERED 
BY CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
PARIS 1988  MADRID 1988  GERMANY 1988
What are you doing this summer? Why not make it a European 
summer? Join us for three weeks on the CMU campus and four weeks in 
Europe developing your communication skills in French, German, or Spanish.
Oral proficiency language instruction, for beginning and intermediate stu
dents, on CMU campus, for all levels abroad. Full day program, five days a 
week, for three weeks in June in Pittsburgh 4 credits,* $1080. Continental 
breakfast and lunch included.
FRENCH PROGRAM at Institute Catholique in Paris for 4 weeks
(July 1-29)
GERMAN PROGRAM at Goethe Institute in Rothenberg for 4
weeks (July 5-29)
SPANISH PROGRAM at Estudio Internacional Sampere in Madrid
for 4 weeks (July 4-29)
Each overseas program, 6 credits,** $1620. Includes tuition, room and 
board, and excursions.
Students may enroll in either the Pittsburgh or European programs 
independently.
Make this a special summer. Write or call us for details.
Modern Languages 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412)268-2881
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION APRIL 1, 1988.
*In The Tartan 12 units 
**In The Tartan 18 units

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage D13
Shakespeare on a budget...Student tickets for Macbeth
PITTSBURGHHalf-priced tickets are 
now available to students and senior citizens 
during the Benedum Centers run of 
Macbeth, co-starring Christopher 
Plummer and Glenda 
Jackson.
The half-priced, 
second-tier seats are 
exclusively available 
to students and sen
ior citizens with valid I.D. The discounted 
ticket price range is $5.00-$7.50.
Ticket orders may be placed at the box office 
on Seventh Street; telephone orders will not be
accepted. Box office hours are 10-6, M-F, and 
Noon-4 on Saturday.
These limited seats are on sale for the follow
ing dates: Tuesday, 
February 23 through 
Saturday, February 
27; and Tuesday, 
March 1 through 
Thursday, March 3. 
All shows are at 8:00 
pm and there is also a 
2:00 pm matinee on Thursday, March 3. 
Macbeth is being presented by the Pitts
burgh Trust for Cultural Resources with the 
Civic Light Opera.
tn6no0c
hn6xnr
0Jamal will play Harpers
PITTSBURGH - Recording star Ahmad Ja
mal will make a four-night appearance at 
Harpers beginning Wednesday, February 
17th through Saturday, February 20th.
Jamal, who is considered by critics as one of 
the all-time great jazz pianists, last appeared in 
Pittsburgh at last years Jazz Festival at Heinz 
Hall where he drew a sold-out audience.
His recording of Poinciana and But Not 
For Me are considered piano classics. His last
four albums including Digital Works and 
Crystal have been on the best selling list and 
have sparked renewed interest in his work.
Ahmad, who was bom in Pittsburgh, will be 
accompanied by his trio. He will do two shows 
at 8 pm and 10 pm on Wednesday and Thurs
day with three shows at 8 pm , 10 pm & 12 
Midnight on Friday and Saturday.
For reservation information call Harpers at 
391-1494.
P2F

2
os V la. iCU6mna8 el bCm8 I8aVUs 
Omn lCn el bCm8 OmI2anh
Now * you can bring your old Macintosh to the 
CMU Computer Store and well let you trade it in
toward the purchase of a new system unit.
We'll also be selling the Macintosh systems that we take in 
trade. If you've always wanted to own one and thought you just 
couldn't afford it, come in and let us prove you can.
j

jL
.V
mp
if
b
P
ai
I
All used equipment will be checked by our service department, and 
will carry a full thirty da\ warranty from the date of purchase.
Hours:Monday & Thursday 
10:00-7:00 Tuesday, Wednessday and Friday 
10:00-4:30
This program is in effect an a trial basis
I-*
Contact the store at X2636 
or stop in for 
details.m
a"
P
$14.951<25 0<%.OF Qu1z
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Comedy Critic 
Have you been studying your comedy? Good for you! Nows your chance to show what 
youve learned as a comedy fan, and win some nifty prizes to boot! Answer as many 
questions as you can, and the entrant with the most correct responses wins. First Prize is 
four free tickets to Graffitis Comedy Night Live, a Wednesday night showcase of local 
and national touring comedians, which is followed by Comedy on the Edge, an open 
stage show for the rest of the Pittsburgh comedians. Second Prize is a box of Good and 
Plenty, and the Third Prize is a really ugly tie. Deadline is Friday, February 19, so get to 
work.
1. In what year did Saturday Night Lire debut?
2. Who invented the Sledge-O-Matic?
3. One member of Monty Python is a certified Doctor. Which one?
4. How many albums has Eddie Murphy released?
5. Which Saturday Night Live cast member is from Pittsburgh?
6. In which movie did Jay Leno star with Larraine Newman?
7. Who sang Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh?
8. What is Pee-Wee Hermans real name?
9. Film critic Rex Reed vowed to retire if what movie were made?
10. What was Marty Feldmans last movie?
11. Who created Ajax Airlines, Ajax Liquor Store, and Ajax Mortuary?
12. What are Bob and Rays last names?
13. What are Harrison and Tylers first names?
14. Where did George Carlin grow up?
15. What is the last line of Deteriorata?
Extra Credit - Match the performer with the punchline.
Performers:
1)George Carlin
2)Judy Tenuta
3)Bames and Barnes
4)Bob Newhart
5)Joan Rivers
Punchlines:
a)Yeah!
b)And hes our Pilot!
c)Apes and Apes toes.
d)He looked like a squid in stretch pants.
e)It looks like... meatcake!
Entries to: The Tartan, Room 50, Skibo. Attn: Comedy Contest.
fmi 8.i77tc7Pi Pe1 
8Rutc7Pi OT.urPiO.2nO Ruez8 
gP7 Turr7,7 7PO27ih
mO8 7PO27i 8u nPc Fuih
Even if you didnt start college on a scholarship, you 
could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships 
pay for full tuition and allowances for educational 
fees and textbooks. Along with up to SI,000 
a vear. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE.
Call x5242 
or stop by Hamburg Hall 
Ground Floor, West
ARMY RESERVE OFFERS TRAINING O^RpS

---------------------------------------------------

hi shingthe o.m.s. strikes again! (i told 
you there would be a message.)
Leslie M.-
Thanx for the card. I 
appreciate it.
-P.
JenniferAAAAAAGGGGGGHHHHH!!!! 
Glad you could be here!
-Love, Kwick
I love a good Bundt cake!
Lisa is good in bed.
Please let me take your pain 
away. Youre hurting so bad.
I want to be your sledgehammer 
why wont you call my name?
Missy.
Its a little T in the 
woodwork following you around 
with a tape recorder, writing it 
down, and sending it to The 
Tartan.
-La
We cannot live together - 
We cannot live apart - 
Thats the situation, weve 
known it from the start.
Soon, very soon, please.
CMUHard work 
Hard Liquor 
Hard up
K.-
Hows my sex goddess doing? 
-me
It was great - I won the whipped 
cream, she won the pineapple, 
we went back to her room and 
had dessert.
Hey LoriI like your big brown_______
SteveI love you always. Happy 
Valentines Day.
-Lauren
Im not taking my clothes off - I 
dont even work here anymore!
Im happy to be an AUSTRIAN, 
Im happy as I could be.
I only wish that I was a dog,
And you were a tree!
- An Austrian Nationalist
MichelleIf I send you a self-addressed 
stamped envelope, will you 
return my affection?
-Socks
Wed like to say two words to 
everybody who would not help 
us do the Barking Dog version of Louie, Louie. They are: YOU and 
FUCK, but not necessarily in that 
order.
-Snausages
No pain ... well, then, no pain.
Sorry Josh, but it aint just your 
section thats smaller, and we all 
know you cut charm class in high 
school.
EDYE! YOURE MY KIND OF 
WOMAN!!!
But what about the Greek 
armies in ancient times - they 
were all homosexuals? But they 
didnt have to carry nuclear 
weapons. I dont know... 
RSure Ill travel 5000 miles for 
the Gamma Phi Beta Pink 
Carnation Ball... I was in the 
neighborhood.
-S.
Quest Labs
We Divide by Zero
Inter-Office Memo
c/o: The Baugwhan
(Biomed./Infosys Div.)
The Baby Dragon 
(Mechsys./Main Office)
The Bedbug 
(Sleep Research Center) 
Whens our next meeting to 
discuss the Highlights of CMU 
Campus project?
Captain Napalm 
(Chem/Expl./Bioweapons)
I still know who you are!!
-4237 (the man under the seats)
Mr. RobitussinIn the words of Dave Gilmour, 
a momentary lapse of reason? 
-DLF
Send Submissions to: 
Vox Populi 
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo Info. Desk
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Sun.- Thurs. 7-10 P.M.
CALCULUS
PHYSICS
CHEMISTRY
ECONOMICS
ACADEMIC WRITING
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
0)
PH 107-A 
PH 107-B 
PH 126-A 
PH 126-B 
PH 126-C 
WeH5409
Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

February 16,1988The TartanPage D15
Events
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, March 1, 
1988. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary at 
x2200 to set up an appointment.
Student Ombudsman will have open office 
hours for students to discuss concerns, register 
complaints and help resolve problems. Days 
and times available for appointments are at the 
Skibo Information Desk @x2107. Phone 
messages @x5764 (24 hrs a day).
Mary Barnes. The story of a mentally ill 
woman and her therapist working together to 
conquer her madness through unconventional 
treatment. Written by David Edgar. Directed 
by Lee Sankowich. Kresge Theatre. 8 pm, 
February 17-18 (previews), 19-20,23-27; at 2 
pm, February 20 and 27.
An exhibition of photographs by Anne 
Fishbein focusing on an American way of life. 
Many of the images were taken on U.S. Route 
66. Hewlett Gallery, CFA 1 st floor, February 
18 through March 22.
Gordon Matta Clark. A retrospective exhi
bition of this conceptual artist, organized by 
the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. 
Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery, 407
S. Craig St. February 14 through April 10. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 
pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Three Rooms with a View. Three guest 
curators, David Lewis, Louis Mueller and Ann 
Nathan, were invited to each create a room of 
a house. Their only mandate was to utilize 
works made in a craft medium within the 
context of the space. Through April 3. The 
Society For Art in Crafts, 21st and Smallman 
Streets, The Strip District. Gallery Hours are
10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
29th Annual Three Rivers Arts Festival,
June 3 - 19, 1988. Festival Deadline Re
minder:Fringe Auditions, February 20. 
Poetry submissions due, March 4. 
For more information contact, Three Rivers 
Arts Festival, 481-7040, 207 Sweetbriar St., 
Pittsburgh, PA 15211. Entries may also be 
hand delivered to the Festival Office located 
on Mount Washington.
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CMs Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are experiencing attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center:
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-5554.
The Great Miniature Railroad and Village. 
Through February 28. 2 pm, Monday through 
Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Thursday and 
Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, 
Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 
pm, Sunday.
Legends in the Sky. Through March 22. 2 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm,
7 pm, Thursday and Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm, 
4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
Fifth of July. Point Park College Theatre 
Company, Theatre Downstairs. 8 pm, 
Wednesday through Saturday; 7 pm, Sunday. 
Feb. 10 - Feb. 28. Ticket price: $5 - $6. 
Dance Impressions 88. A contemporary' 
selection featuring guest choreographer Ri
cardo Moyano of Chicago. Playhouse Dance 
Theatre. February 18 through February 21. 8 
pm, Thursday through Saturday; 3 pm, Sun
day. Admission $6 - $10.
The Brave Little Tailor. Can a little tailor 
defeat two giants? It seems dangerous. It 
seems impossible. But this little tailor has wits 
as sharp as his scissors and a bag full of tricks. 
Aurand Harris comic adaptation of the popu
lar fairy tale is sure to delight the whole family.
11 am and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; 2:30 pm, 
Sundays; through March 20.
/i PAYLESS 521-5700
MM CAR RENTAL
Jv ALSO DBA HOLIDAY* PAYLESS* RENT-A-CAR
Our Name Says It All!
bU99 2r2eO ya7h 
D,.h DPh bMd 
?sKm2ii7r &2rr?
 Low Daily - Weekly Rates . Weekend Specials Must be 21 or over Most Major Credit Cards Accepted (Students' and Parents cards accepted.)15 and 7 Passenger Vans available also 1/2 mile from Campus 
Worldwide Tol Free Reservations
1 800*237*2804 or Cal Your tavet AgentWfjbmrmrrfwrdt&-ifkti fimtc
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted
Wanted: Students: Earn extra money today, 
for the holidays and Spring Break 1988. No 
experience necessary, opportunity to be your 
own boss, work your own hours, earn unlim
ited income, prizes and trips. Call today, 
Florida Sands Promotions (904) 257-2467
WANTED: Artists, sculptors, etc., seeking 
publication and distribution of their work in 
high quality color publication. For informa
tion and application form, write: Morgan 
House, Division of Greater Toledo Publica
tions, Inc., 317 10th Street, Toledo, Ohio 
43624. Enclose name, address (city, state, 
zip), phone number, and non-returnable 
photo or slide of works.
HOMEWORKERS WANTED! TOP
PAY! C. I. 121 24th Ave., N. W. Suite 222, 
Norman OK 73069.
ACTIVIST? Call us to get in on a great 
opportunity to sharpen those communication 
and community organizing skills for politi
cal social change! We need articulate, caring 
people for part-time or full-time career op
portunities. We offer $5-$ 10/hour. Hours: 5- 
9:30 pm/1:30-9:30 pm. Call 566-2290.
Students Needed!!! Local area firm re
quires 25 high-quality students (m/f) for 
market study. Flexible Hours, pay rate be
tween $6.35-58.00/ based on prior experi
ence. Any major may apply. Car needed. Call 
between 12 and 5 pm. 561-0337.
Theres a job for you in a summer 
camp!
The American Camping Association (NY) 
will make your application available to over
300 camps in the Northeast. Exciting oppor
tunities for college students and profession
als. Positions available: all land and water 
sports, arts & crafts, drama, music, dance, 
tripping, nature, R.N.s, M.D.s, Aides, 
kitchen, maintenance. College credit avail
able. Call or write for application. American 
Camping Association, 43 W. 23rd St., Dept 
(CM), New York, NY 10010. 1-800-777- 
CAMP.
Counter help wanted. Full or part-time 
shifts available: 4-10, late night, and Friday 
and Saturday part-time. Starting rate $3.70. 
Apply in person. Original Hot Dog Shop Inc. 
3901 Forbes Avenue.
Shadyside apartment renovation com
pany wants upperclass or graduate architec
ture student to make structural drawings. 
Computer skills a plus. Part time, flexible 
hours. Send Resume to:
Alder Street Development Co., 5912 Alder 
Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15232
ON-CAMPUS JOBS  Find out what 
opportunities you could be missing out on. 
Pick up a job directory in the Financial Aid 
Office on the 2nd floor of Warner Hall or 
look at the B-Board under Workstudy 
(non-workstudy positions also) on TOPS.
nc; Housing
Apartment Rental: Shadyside. 1-Bed
room, wall-to-wall, security system, newly 
redecorated. 621-2873
Live in the lap of luxury in this beautiful 
two bedroom Shadyside apartment with an 
EQUIPPED kitchen, log burning fireplace, 
bay windows, central air conditioning and 
on-site laundry for the low low price of $450/ 
mo. + utilities. For more info call 462-7316
For Rent  one BR garden condo/ ww/ 
equipped kitchen/ gas heat/ drapes/ conven
ient/ Regent Square area/ 352-9553
For Sale: Amberson Towers, 5 Bayard 
Road: Wonderful 2 bed, 2 bathroom condo. 
Great view comer unit. Priced $84,900. 
Contact Jill Bolner, 421 -9120.
Apartment for Rent: Squirrel Hill  1/2
block for CMU  Beeler Street. Extremely 
large 8-room Apartment with large living 
room, log-burning fireplace, 1 1/2 bath
rooms, kitchen, dining room, small office, 
enclosed porch, private backyard, garage, 
several air conditioners, storm windows, 
washer & dryer, carpeting in 3 bedrooms, 
comfortably suited for 5. Available in May. 
$1200/ month + utilities. Call 521-9441 
evenings after 8 pm.
Apartment for Rent: 1/2 block for CMU, 
lower Beeler Street. Huge 2500 square feet, 
10-room, 2 story apartment. 5 bedrooms, 2 
living rooms (22 x 17 and 35 x 14), 2 
bathrooms, kitchen, dining room, small of
fice, sun porch, garage, storm windows, first 
floor air conditioned, washer & dryer, com
fortably suited for 7. $ 1600/month + utilities. 
Available beginning of May. Call 521-9441 
evenings after 8 pm.
.-ii Services ....
Research Papers: 15,278 available! Cata
log $2. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, Los 
Angeles 90025. Toll free (800) 351-0222, 
Ext. 33. Visa/MC or COD
Lust in 88? Wanderlust that is! You can
see the U.S., Europe or Asia this summer 
using safe, inexpensive International Youth 
Hostels. Nearly 300 in the U.S. with 5,000 
world-wide. For membership rate informa
tion write: Hostels c/o Pittsburgh A YH, 6300 
Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh PA 15232, or call 
362-8181, leave message.
Pregnant? Need help?  Confidential 
counseling  Free pregnancy test  262-1220. 
Airport Area Crisis Pregnancy Center.
Spring Break  Nassau/Paradise Island 
from $279.00
Package includes: round-trip air. transfers, 7 
nights hotel, beach parties, free lunch, cruise, 
free admission to nightclubs, taxes and 
more!!
Cancn packages also available!
Organize a small group, earn a free trip! Call 
American Travel Services 1 (800)231-0113 
or (203) 967-3330.
Exclusive Spring Break Offer!
Order your Spring Break 1988 Survival Kit 
for only $14.95. Kit includes: I survived 
Spring Break silk-screened t-shirt, bever
age wrap, condoms, and Spring Break bonus 
surprise. This is a limited offer. Send check 
or money order with t-shirt size (S-M-L-XL) 
to: Florida Sands Promotions, P.O. Box 
2720, Daytona Beach. FL 32015-2720/ 
(904) 673-4320. Pick up order forms at Ride 
Board, Skibo Hall.
Minutemaids: We customize our service 
to your housekeeping needs. Serving Pitts
burgh 8 years, insured & bonded, 682-3860. 
Free estimates.
For Sale
Moving to California: Must sell, good fur
niture and apartment items, call 881-1692 
after 6:00 pm.
Silkscreen45 1/2 x 371/2. Never used. 
$60. Call 531-5799

---------------------------------------------------

Page D16The TartanFebruary 16,1988
Announcements
U Am7O1Pc
Movies
Manon of the Spring, Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugolin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jean's 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Metallurgical Engineering 
and Materials Science Seminar. Dr. A. K.
Vasudevan, ALCOA Technical Center, 
speaks on Estimation of Grain Boundary 
Decohesion Strength in AL-Li Alloys. 
Department of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Professor B. Erik Ydstie, Univer
sity of Massachusetts, speaks on Adaptive 
and Self Learning Control Systems at 11 am 
in DH 1112. Coffee and pastries served at 
10:45 in Conference Room 1102.
Special Events
Movie Night at Jewish University Center.
Free Admission and munchies!! Take a break 
from studying and come watch Top Secret 
with the crowd at JUC, at 7:30 pm. Kosher 
dinner available before movie from 5:30 - 
7:30. Price for dinner is $4.85. Call 621-8875 
for details.
French Table. The Modem Languages De
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Alpha Phi Omega, the National Service Fra
ternity, meets every week at 8 pm in Breed 
Hall, MM 103. All are welcome.
d 71e7O1Pc
Movies
Manon of the Spring, Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jeans 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Special Events
Explore your Jewish Heritage. Jewish Uni
versity Center, 160 N. Craig, at 7:30 pm. All 
you wanted to know about Judaism but were 
afraid to ask. No previous Judaic knowledge 
required. Kosher dinner avai lable before class 
from 5:30 - 7:30 for $4.85.
Ash Wednesday is being celebrated by the 
Roman Catholic Chaplaincy with two masses 
at noon and 5 pm in Skibos Ballroom. Ashes 
will be distributed during and immediately 
following each mass. For information call 
681-3181.
The New Christie Institute Video called: 
The Shadow Government The Men Behind 
the Iran-Contra Scandal is showing at 8 pm in 
PH 226-B.
Educational Action on Latin America
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited. 
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Sports
Womans Basketball. Away game against 
Thiel College at 6 pm.
Mens Basketball. Away game against Thiel 
College at 8 pm. s
Movies
Manon of the Spring, Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jean's 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Bicycle Thief, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, and 10 pm. Admission 
$1.
Lectures
Department of Electrical And Computer 
Engineering Graduate Seminar. Dr. Larry 
E. Druffel, SEI, speaks at 3:30 pm in Scaife 
Auditorium. Refreshments are served at 3:15 
pm.
Special Events
The Theolog is In. From 11 am to 3 pm in
Grey Matter, members of CMs Campus 
Ministry Council are available for conversa
tion on matters of theology, ethics or any
thing else youve always wanted to know 
about religion but were afraid to ask. Please 
stop by.
Sports
Mens and Womens Swimming. UAA
Championships @ Rochester. Time TBA.
ki21Pc
Movies
Manon of the Spring, Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jeans 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes, the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
The Dream Screen and Sigmund Freuds 
Dora. In the Dream Screen, Pittsburgh 
filmmaker Stephanie Beroes examines the 
representation of women in the cinematic and
cultural imagination. Sigmund Freuds Dora 
uses a Freud case study as a starting point for 
am examination of several theoretical issues 
concerning female sexuality. Carnegie Mu
seum of Art Film at 8 pm. Admission $3. 
The New Films of Chick Strand. Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers is pleased to present the Five New 
Films of Chick Strand as part of a special 
cinematic festival devoted exclusively to the 
presentation of works by women filmmakers. 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers, 205 Oakland Avenue, 
at 8 pm and 10 pm. General admission $3. 
Rocky, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission 
$1.
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon Objectivist Forum. TBA
at 8 pm in Breed Hall, MM 103. Question 
period will follow. Admission $3; $1 for 
CMU students and free for members. The 
membership fee is $25 for the Spring 
semester. Club members may meet with 
speakers before the lecture at 4 pm.
Music
Carnegie Mellon University Wind En
semble, conducted by Dr. Jon C. Mitchell. 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA at 8 pm.
Special Events
Shabbat dinner. Come and enjoy Friday 
night dinner with the crowd at JUC. Reserva
tions are required by preceding Wednesday. 
Jewish University Center, 160 N. Craig Street, 
at 5:30 pm. Price for dinner is $4.25 for 
members and $5.25 for non-members. Call 
621-8875 for details.
Sports
Mens & Womens Swimming. UAA Cham
pionships @ Rochester. Time TBA.
s
Movies
Manon of the Spring, Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jeans 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Women. This is a rich and complex study of 
relationships between women. It centers 
around a volatile young working woman with 
a bad marriage who befriends a middle-aged 
wife whose successful husband is leaving on a 
long business trip. Not only does this film 
raise the issues of domestic tyranny and eco
nomic independence, it also emphasizes the 
importance of friendship. In Hungarian with 
English subtitles. Carnegie Museum of Art 
Film at 8 pm. Admission $3.
The New Films of Chick Strand. Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers is pleased to present the Five New 
Films of Chick Strand as part of a special 
cinematic festival devoted exclusively to the 
presentation of works by women filmmakers. 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers, 205 Oakland Avenue, 
at 8 pm and 10 pm. General admission $3. 
Rocky Horror Picture Show, sponsored by 
SDC Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Special Events
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited.
Sports
Mens & Womens Swimming. UAA Cham
pionships @ Rochester. Time TBA. 
Womens Basketball. Home game against 
Grove City College at noon.
Mens Basketball. Home game against 
Grove City College at 2 pm.
Movies
Manon of the Spring, Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jeans 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Creepshow II, sponsored by AB Films. DH at 
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 12 pm. Admission $ 1.
Movies
Manon of the Spring, Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jeans 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
If you wish to submit an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event to The Tartan, 
send it to Campus Calendar / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania /15213. Send it 
by campus mail to the above addressor drop 
it off at 5017 Forbes Ave. (The house 
between DU and ATO.)
Please submit the following information 
when sending in events: Title of event, its 
sponsor, a brief description of the event, and 
its locations, date and time. In addition, 
include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting the entry; this information 
will be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any events listed. In 
addition, The Tartan reserves the right to 
edit or omit any listing for publication.
Deadline for Calendar submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next weeks 
issue.

---------------------------------------------------

0s*
s*
aC#5V5
05
snosC>
Si
Ss*
b-i
tii
>3
"i
<5
>3
t*3
man
Q%
(/>
G)
not because the human subject is too weak, 
but because passion is in its essence made to beseen.
-Roland Barthes

---------------------------------------------------

Man is a creature who lives
not upon bread alone,
but principally by catchwords;
a a
3
C/^
>3
os
3
I:HiX
X!
Sir>
c\
jOo
man
r")
one set of catchwords to the girls and another to the boys.woman
CREDITS
Literary Editor Michele Osberow 
Design Editor Rick Simner 
Typesetting Brian Harrison
SUBMISSIONS
Dossier welcomes submissions from any student 
enrolled at Carnegie Mellon. All manuscripts must be 
typed or on a macintosh disk Please include your 
name, address, and phone number. Due to plagiarism 
laws, anonymous literature or literature under 
pseudonyms cannot he accepted.
Submissions may he sent through campus mail to 
Dossier, c/o The Tartan, I Oj Ski ho, or dropped off at 
the Tartan office, Skiho room 50.
CONTENTS
Reading Marilyn Monroe by Elayne Tobin 
Designed by Maria Carluccio
Look at Me by Laura Lemay
Designed by Jennifer Paniagua
Riding Away
Written and Designed by Rebecca S Neimark
Where it's All Warm and Secret by Jeffrey Stepakoff 
Designed by Beth Novitsky and Jamie Apel
The Vampire by Mark Aiello
Designed by Simon GatralT
It's Darker After Hours by Ami Spicer 
Designed by Helene Benedetti
What Felix Packed by Brett Molotsky 
Designed by Linda Peters
In the Balcony by Habih Ullah Khan 
Designed by Hugo Cheng

---------------------------------------------------

Reading Marilyn Monroe
Page after page brims 
with her. Pained descriptions 
of round breasts peeking 
up like morning glories 
from a tight bodice, uneven 
heels or the perfect 
swish of her whipped 
cream ass. Or those inky red 
lips that kissed in dark 
closets everyone who was 
or would be renowed. Still 
others relv on the angel 
blondeness of the death, 
think what they might 
do with the platinum mystery, 
the icy corpse.
All the while we grow
old gorging on her. sustaining
ourselves with the black and whites
we sip her story like morning
coffee, warm, charged
w hile the sheer image of her
slips from our fingers, spills
onto the summer streets, forces
us to catch our breath
with recognition like a white
chiffon skirt.
despite the ugent
pressing of palms.
gets caught in the ache
of gravitv.
Elayne Tobin

---------------------------------------------------

Look At Me
Look at me.
7Vlfn bCm saa enh
on UVcas Ua 2yC. Vyy Cra8 
VlI sUeya nCC UmitM
,b w8ealIs sVb / yCCc seyybM
ofU lCn seyybM
ACm snVlI sC iyCsa Vyy nta neUa 
DCyIel2 tVlIsp nCmitel2 te6s 
onfs sC .V8U mlIa8 bCm8 V8UM
ACm nayy Ua bCm tVralfn saal enM
o .Cln Oayeara bCmM
gesnal nC UaM
ow bCm iVlfn saa en bCm Umsn taV8 enM
dra8b le2tn / .Vyc bCm nC nta ayarVnC8p 
enfs nta yVsn 6t8Vsa nC sumaaWa nt8Cm2t 
OawC8a nta ICC8s iyCsa VlI iV88b bCm V.VbM 
NyC. IVlias o O8aVnta en el bCm8 aV8M
geca Vl elsain OmWWel2p Clyb leia8M
F8 sCwnyb V2Velsn bCm8 stCmyIa8 .teya 
nta staans 8aUVel VOsaln:UelIaIyb nVl2yaI 
V8CmlI Cm8 VlcyasM
Gyy ntes neUaM vCC UVlb neUasM
ACm iVlfn nayj Ua bCm tVralfn taV8I enM
o .Clfn Oayeara bCmM
vCmit UaM
ACm iCU6yVel o tm2 nCC ne2tnyb VlI nCC yCl2M 
o wC8ia nta waayel2 w8CU Ub OCIb nC bCm8sM 
FsUCsesM
yaVsaM ow bCm iVlfn saa enp C8 taV8 en 
0aay en 
ol UaM
gVm8V gaUVb

---------------------------------------------------

L212e, yRPc
e
He is riding ahead of her on one of the many narrow 
bike paths that weave across Hollands countryside.
Every few minutes he turns on his bike and smiles 
uncertainly. Each time he begins to turn she looks 
away.
To her right, fields of straw yellow barley sway in the 
sun. Acres of untilled ground lie on her left. Two 
 sluggish canals widen and close as she rides between 
them on the narrow strip of bike path. She is weary of 
the farmland. She would like to be biking through a 
village or even along a large road, but for the past 
several miles there has not been a single bridge to 
cross for them to change direction.
Out of the corner of her eye she catches him checking 
again. She suspects he is afraid that he will turn around 
$ and she will no longer be following him, that she will be 
pedaling furiously in the opposite direction... away from 
his nervous glances, away from his anxious smile, away 
from him.
She is relieved when they reach a bridge. You want to 
, stop? he asks.
m The bridge is wooden, bleached bland from sun and 
rain. He sits cross legged, Indian-style, and closes his 
eyes. She first sits leaning against the handrail support. 
But, the air is heavy and hazy, and after a moment of 
watching him with his eyes closed, she lies down on her 
back.
Soon the discussion will begin. In a moment he will 
venture, Whats on your mind? and she will answer,
^ Nothing or I dont know. Lately, she feels seperate 
from him, but she cant pinpoint the cause, and shes 
not sure what to do. She has thought that they are in a 
lull, at one of the inevitable lows of a long-term relation
ship, but she isnt sure. When he pushes her to talk 
about it she finds herself unable and perhaps unwilling 
to express her vague dissatisfaction. She would prefer 
he ignore her recent moodiness. He demands explana
tions. She will tell him that she is happy, that everything
4 is fine. Her words easily convince him; they often 
convince herself. And they will be content again, at 
least until something she does, or a comment she 
makes, or his own insecurity, drives him to bring it up 
again.
She sighs and rolls onto her side. He opens his eyes;
I dont think we should spend the rest of the summer 
together.
^ She waits a minute then, wearily, asks, Why?
Because I dont want to spend the whole summer 
thinking you love me as much as I love you only to get 
dumped once we get back home.
What? she asks, incredulous. Then, patiently, Look. 
You think we shouldnt stay together because you think I 
dont really love you. Dont you think that if I didnt love 
^ you I would agree when you say we should break up? 
Listen to me." She pauses for effect. I dont want you 
to go. I don't want to break up. Okay?
You just think we might as well enjoy ourselves since 
we have to spend the whole summer together
No I don't
and Im telling you we don't have to.
I dont think that, she says.
We dont have to, he repeats.
Fine. So we dont have to spend the rest of the 
summer together. I wantto spend the rest of the 
summer together.
Right. But are you going to want to be with me after 
this summer?
This is exasperating, she says.
I just dont think that youre as in love with me as I am 
with you.
Dont tell me how I feel! I know how I feel.
Then tell me how you feel.
For a moment she is annoyed, but this is important. I 
love being with you because you make me happy.
* You don't seem very happy.
I am happy. Im just feeling unusually serene. You 
make me happy. I love being with you. You make me 
think, and you make me laugh, and I feel loved when Im 
around you. She moves next to him and puts her arms 
around his shoulders. Plus youre beautiful and good. 
She kisses his face. Youre beautiful and youre sweet 
and youre a little insecure... He is smiling now and 
shes trying to pull him down on top of her. You 
convince me to go bike riding when Im lazy, and you 
come all the way to Holland with me, and you are very 
patient with me...
A farmer in wooden shoes is bicycling toward their 
bridge. They struggle up to make room for him to cross. 
Huy! the farmer smiles as he approaches. Huy, they 
call as he creaks by.
They are riding back by a different route, through grassy 
plains and grazing cows, exhilarated by the flat land, the 
fields and the sky. The cows are mostly white with 
single wide bands of black circling their middles. Check 
out these cows! he shouts and speeds ahead. She 
inhales the heavy tang of manure and breaks through to 
clean barley air. She pedals faster. A cow looks up as 
they sail by.
In twenty minutes she is tired. Can we slow down? 
she says. My legs are killing me. In the middle of a 
field they stop, uncertain in which direction their village 
lies. It is beginning to drizzle, and the wet chills her as 
she surveys the flat gray landscape. Okay, he says, 
where do we live?
Silhouetted on the foggy horizon are the church spires 
and windmills of the surrrounding villages. She finds the 
landmark of their village: a squat windmill and a spheretopped church right next to each other. Pointing to the 
cluster, she says, I think that one's ours.
He agrees. Well go this way. Lets hurry. We re 
gonna be soaked.
The drizzle has dwindled to a fine mist, but the clouds 
are still heavy and gray. They stop again. I dont think 
we re getting any closer, she says. But Im getting 
much more tired. She gets off her bike to stretch while 
he studies his compass. He swivels in his bike, 
checking the reading.
What, she says, looking over at him.
We must just be circling it. We should get onto a 
different road.
I dont think we passed any other roads since we got 
onto this one, she says.
No, I didn't see any," he agrees.
Do you think we should go back? She is squatting on 
the ground, rubbing her damp jeans with her hands.
To our last turn?
Yeah.
I dont know. What do you think?
I dont know. She plops down on the damp pavement, 
exhaling. I just want to rest.
Why dont you wait here and Ill ride ahead, he 
suggests.
Why should I wait?
Then you can rest and I can see if its worth going any 
further.
She gets up and walks over to him. She wants to brush 
the rain out of his hair but he leans forward to kiss her. 
Pulling back, she dusts off the silvery beads and then 
kisses him on the side of his mouth.
Ill wait right here.
Okay. Ill be back soon.
She watches him bike away until the road curves and he 
is out of sight. Then she sits back down on the path to 
wait.
Idly she pulls at the weeds that grow along the path. 
Each stalk she tugs offers a moment of resistance, then 
surrenders as the ground releases the root. She places 
each stalk carefully on the path, spelling his name in 
green. It starts to rain again. She is bored, so she 
remounts the bike to follow his trail.
Riding alone she feels unrestrained. She pedals easily, 
effortlessly. The bike carries her forward. Her tires slice 
through the puddles on the path and the water sprays 
off, hissing gently. She can smell the damp of the dirt 
and the pavement and the damp of her own skin. Occa
sional raindrops smack into her face; they wake her 
mind and refresh her body. Her lethargy is gone.
She squints her eyes against the increasing rain and 
stands up on the bike pedals. The air on her face is 
moist and cool. Is he right? she wonders. The road is 
empty, almost surreal with the remaining light 
shimmering on the dark puddled surface. Dreary 
greens and blacks blur by. She tries to think objec
tively. Is she being fair to him? The blurs are slowing 
so she sits down and pedals as fast and as long as she 
can. Then she stands again to rest her legs. Her arms 
are wet and cold from the rain. What does he need? 
How long will this go on? She sits to speed up. Legs 
throbbing, she stands. The speed of her movement is 
rushing in her ears. How long can this go on? It is then 
that she knows. They should not be together.
She starts to pedal again, but is exhausted. The bike 
coasts until it comes to a stop and she leaves it lying on 
the ground.
She is waiting in the middle of the path when he returns. 
She is wet and tired, and as soon as she sees him 
coming around the bend, she rises and walks over to 
her bike.
Hey, he says as he pulls up alongside of her. Im 
sorry it took so long. You look beat. There's a road 
about 20 minutes ahead that goes straight to our house. 
Wasnt that storm incredible?
She gets onto her dripping bike nodding her head.
Come on kiddo, he says. When we get home Ill wrap 
you up in a warm blanket and we can take a nap 
together. We'll be there in less than a half an hour.
How does that sound?
She starts to bike forward, hesitates, and turns to smile 
weakly at him. Yeah," she says. Then they are moving 
and she is biking away.
Rebecca S. Neimark

---------------------------------------------------

Characters: CHARLES, 21-25 years old, a precocious little boy in a 
derelicts clothing.
REBECCA FAYE GOODWYN, 19 years old, a wide-eyed 
student on the brink of womanhood.
Scene:The front porch of a prominent sorority house on an old, 
established, state university campus.
Time: A languid Sunday afternoon in late fall.
'BtW
wte
lis M
2item
AA
a ru\\A<?X\c frntfisy oy one.
CHARLES (with Bogart accent) So, uh, whats a nice girl like you 
doing with a major like this?
BECKY (amused) Like what?
CHARLES Business Administration.
BECKY Whats wrong with that? You got something against 
business?
CHARLES I dont. Just sounds like the product of what someone 
else wantsMom and Dad. Right?
BECKY What are you, a psychology major?
CHARLES Nope. Just someone whos crazy about you.
BECKY How the hell do you know so much about me? I swear, I 
dont remember ever meeting you before.
CHARLES Then maybe you havent. Or...maybe you just dont pay 
attention to the important things.
BECKY Like you.
CHARLES Could be.
BECKY Are you always so cocky?
CHARLES Are you always so unsure?
Im not unsure.BECKY
(Beat.)
Jeffrey
Am I? (He begins to laugh.) Dont you ever 
listen to the Rolling Stones?
CHARLES
CHARLES Its bullshitwhat theyre telling you.
Mick is wrong, Becky. You can get what you want.
(She remains framed in doorway, shifting from side to 
side. He uses the entire front porch to enact his speech.)
(Beat.)
 _
A play is as personal and 
individual a form of expression 
as a poem or a picture. 
Oscar Wilde

---------------------------------------------------

And now its time. The time has arrived for you to hear a Truth. 
The Truth. Some non-bullshit. Are you ready? Surrre you are. 
(laughs) Becky, there was a time, not so long ago. When I was 
younger. And I was up north. Not so far from herebut far 
enough north to be different. Living up north in the suburbs. And 
there was this woman. This motherly woman that would take me 
shopping with her every Sunday. Thats what I did. All week 
long, man, I knew it was coming. Id wake up before everybody 
else in the house and just lie there in bed. Id listen to myself 
think. I mean, really listen. See, I had this special talent, so I 
>thought, a gift which nobody else knew about: I could hear myself 
thinking. I'd like move my teeth together, just little shifts in my 
jaw, and words would pop right up. See, it wasnt like regular 
thought where ideas come fluttering, like little butterflies, through 
the brain. I would lie awake on those heavy dull mornings and 
find these stories zipping through my skull. I would talk without 
ever moving my lips. And Id hear myself 
clearer than ever.
(Beat.)
So, Id lie there and go off on one of these adventures. I mean, 
real adventures, like they were actually happening, (directly to 
her) You get it! Im not moving a finger but, woosh, Im off 
anywhere I want, (gradually building) Off on these special 
schemes. Special because I knew, I knew it was me and only me. 
No matter what I did, what ever I dreamed up and decided to do, 
Lnobody would know. Nobody in the house, the neighborhood, the 
town, the suburbs. Man, nobody else anywhere could ever know. 
Im talking about freedom. Power.
(Beat.)
Mostly Id be moving. Somewhere fast. I justpoofdisappear.
I was special. Id get up, in my pajamas. Tip-toe downstairs. The 
feet coverings on my PJs scuff through the thick shagg carpeting. 
Across the living room. Past the paper piles. Creak the door open.
* Echo in the garage. Tip-toe. Oil everywhere. Open the big door. 
The womans footsteps upstairs. Shes getting dressed. Sunday 
clothes. Crank the engine. Vrrroom. Im off. Flying down the 
driveway. Cruising up the street. Suburbs. Neighbors walking 
dogs. Dogs barking. Dogs chasing after me. Im too fast. Crashing 
through the suburbs. Suns coming up. Getting hot. Dew dripping. 
Boy throwing papers. Papers sliding across dew drenched grass, 
g Racing past lush lawns. Sweat in my mouth. Getting hotter. 
Moving faster. Kids in the streets. Kids screaming. Cat freaks out. 
Up a tree. Cat louder. On the highway. People in cars. All dressed 
up and drinking coffee. Passing them by. Going somewhere else. 
Moving faster. Engine pounding. Heart pounding. Sweat 
dripping. Oil spilling. People in distance. Flying higher. Rows of 
houses. Tic-Tac-Toe. Dots of water. Fluff. Space. Speed. The 
womans door opens. Here she comes. Footsteps patter down hall. 
*My door opens. Lips on cheek. Wet. On the ground. Open eyes. 
Embarrassed. Crashed. Time to get up and get dressed. But you 
know what? It was Sunday. Damn boring fall asleep in the lawn 
chair Sunday. So, wed get all dressed up like we were going to 
church.
(Beat.)
But the thing is: I never could understand what it was we were 
^supposed to be saved from. It all seemed like something silly that 
I didnt have to know about. I mean, I nodded my head and all
- that when they spoke about it in school, but, you see, I always 
knew I was betterthat I already had what all those people in the 
, cars were going to get.
(Beat.)
Well, anyhow, we didnt want them to think that we didnt care. 
We still had to live there. So, wed prance about like ballet 
^dancers in front of the house. All dressed up like we were ready. 
And wed get in the Skylark. And wed wave to the McNeills. 
And theyd go to church. And wed go shopping.
(Beat.)
Shopping. See, this woman always said that Sunday was the best 
time to go to the malls because we could have all the Freedom we 
wanted. We could be alone. Like my Flying Freedom. No clutter 
to mess you up. Easy to think, and yank your thoughts together. 
So, we get butter-pecan on sugar cones and she holds my hand 
and its all quiet and nice. She looks at a dress in a store-front 
display. She loved those Sunday sales. She drops my hand and 
goes into the shop. I stand there, bite off the bottom of my cone 
and start sucking out the ice cream. A piece of pecan clogs the 
whole so I just stuff the whole damn thing into my mouth. Gulp. 
And now Im standing there, in the mall, looking around, 
chomping down my ice cream cone.
(Beat.)
Thats when I saw it. It really was like one of those revelations 
youre supposed to get on Sunday. Right there, before my eyes, in 
the store-front display, like it came from the Lord himself: My 
Bike. It had silver-green handlebars, tilted back, so it loooked it 
was moving, even when it wasnt. A sun yellow banana-seat, 
could hold you even at the highest speeds. A frame molded of 
pure gold. And thick monster-mag wheels that could get you over 
any hill standing in your way. I push my nose up against the glass 
of the store-front window. My breath, fogging up the glass, made 
the whole display seem like a scene from my dream that morning. 
This bike, all shimmery, brand new, was framed mysteriously by 
the fog from my breath. It had always been there, waiting for me. 
And now the time had come. I was going to have it. Period. I 
mean it was that simple. I was going to have it. I knew right then 
at that moment that nothing in my life would ever have any 
meaning until I got what was mine. I wanted something and I was 
going to have it. I was to give myself a purpose. A reason. It was 
my destiny; for I had been delivered!
(Beat.)
So, I went inside to get my bike. Maybe if you are a good boy, 
Santa will bring you that bicycle for Christmas, said the store 
manager. I looked up at the old bat and smiling sweetly replied, 
Yes, that would be swell. She walked off behind the register 
counter and I had my chance. I pounced. I jump on the bike, pop 
the kickstand andBlam!Im off. Right down that damn 
display front. Knocking over boxes. The manager squeals, 
shocked, Hey, Hey! What do you think youre doing?! And I 
hit those pedals with the fury of a caged cat. You! Come back 
here this instant! Woosh...right into the mall. Manager running 
after me. Come back here before you hurt someone! Hit top 
speed cruising the store-front displays. Crash by the stiffened 
mannequins. Plow past those frozen dead dummies in the 
window. The woman sees me. Shes been looking: but Im gone. 
Smash on past the silly ladies under their big bee-hive hair-dos. 
Race around the phone boothes. Jump-ramp over a suitcase. 
Wooom...Airbom again. Im on my bike. Flyin freeee...And 
Powerful. I dare you. I dare you all to try and stop me and mine! 
Kids cheering, Go! Go! Go! Racing round the mall. Trying to 
get off the ground. Police come running. Im too cool. James 
Dean. Im an outlaw. Jessie James. Im on the chase. On my bike. 
Theyre gonna shoot, if they catch me. But Im too good. Too 
fast. Im free! Wind in my hair. My hair. My bike. Colours 
meshing into blurs. FLYING Free! Free! Then... (He makes 
the sound of a large and dramatic crash.) Anyway, next 
Sunday we didn't go to the mall, we went to church. (She takes 
this in, stunned.)
BECKY (whispering) You really are crazy arent you 
(Pause) Arent you. 
CHARLES Yeah. Sure. (Pause.) Real crazy.

---------------------------------------------------

)9
I cut through paper night like a scissor,
Fearing nothing, closed minds hold no threat.
I slide through crowds, water through a sieve.
They do not touch me, these men who laugh too loudly,
with the grace of apes.
|we are alone I will show you
and fear. What wonderful liquor there is,
When prepared in the proper fashion.
I will show you what your body means.
And discover your treasures,
Play you like a slender silver flute, until you pipe for me 
Songs you have learned in your dreams.
I will give you my hunger, and take your life,
Spilling in a hot joyous release of your sweet red,
I will leave you to the earth, never forget you -- 
Another trophy of my hunt eternal.
Mark Aiello

---------------------------------------------------

Darker
After
Hours
Ami Spicer
By chance, another steps into the room. Dusty
smoke finds his eyes and tries to hide the scene
of men playing pool with shirts
untucked, crouched low enough to see the cue
face to face. Salty sweat
drowns the room and almost compliments
the cheap perfume Ruby w^ears in all the right places.
Callad stands among the shakers
no use for cards he keeps in the doublebreasted. And the stashers and the smashers
all play some sort of way. Aces
high, laying
low, or smoothing
a slyph. Jodine
pours drinks, just one more round for those with Irish 
blood and sets her chest on the bar for everyone to see.
A wooden box sits in the middle of the room for a crooner
to rest his bones. Callad walks towards
the bar, squinting and sniffing
the waft of herb coming from nowhere
in particular. He orders a shot
of anything close and Jodine
laughs and pulls the trigger.

---------------------------------------------------

What Felix Packed
4-
Felix Plume tried to listen to the music as he 
packed, but the thought of, what should he call 
her, his soon to be ex-live-in or something walking 
in any time now was big in his mind and the music, 
though some really cool Zeppelin dinosaur rock, 
was just background to his current fear of hearing 
a key in the door. The hardwood under him 
creaked with every step, from the bedroom, to the 
bedroom, and back, as if to remind him of what 
exactly he was doing. His three bags, two large 
and one carry-on, were spread across the living 
room and flung open, like three zippered mouths 
waiting to be fed. Plume didn't think it worth trying 
to fold anything, so he just dumped armfuls of 
clothes into whichever bag looked convenient. He 
dropped a sock, white with blue and red stripes at 
the top, and bent to pick it up.
The apartment had taken on a musty smell 
sometime last week, Plume didnt know exactly 
when, and it wasnt anything overt or rancid, just 
wet, old. They had taken down the drapes, given 
them a good beating, figuring the dust or some
thing had settled into them. It didnt help, though, 
so they had rented one of those carpet cleaners 
from the department store and cleaned out her 
rugs. Plume was standing on one now, in his bare 
feet. Shed want to keep it, he figured.
Plume went out onto the porch, or balcony, he 
never knew what to call it, still holding the sock.
The old patio furniture, rusted amber over what 
was once white paint, squeaked heavy when he 
sat down, but still seemed solid. His stomach 
knotted; was that the door? The sounds were faint, 
but could have been Spinas keys in the bolt, then 
the door. Nothing moved inside, and Plume tried 
to relax. Most of the clothes were put away, and 
two of the suitcases were zipped. He wondered if 
he would be able to get all his shit into the car.
The last time Plumes little Alfa was packed 
full with suitcases he and Spina were heading 
south, toward Baltimore, for a vacation. Spina had 
some relatives there, so they had decided to try 
and save a few dollars and go somewhere where 
they wouldnt have to pay for a hotel room. It was 
just across the Maryland border from Pennsylvania 
that Plume started to get frustrated. Spina had 
complained most of the way, about the trip, Plume, 
the car. She hated the car.
You have to go to the bathroom? he had 
said, pointing to a blue Food-Phone-Fuel sign.
Just drive, she had said.
The car had driven better than ever that 
weekend, for an Alfa, and they made record time 
to Spinas cousins house. But she didnt want to 
stay there, she wanted to go to a hotel. Plume had 
tried to explain to her that the reason they were in 
Baltimore in the first place was to keep from 
paying for hotels, but she didnt listen.
Pick a hotel, Spina said, Or well go to the 
most expensive one I can find.
They stayed at HoJos.
Plume rolled the sock into a hand puppet. He 
remembered the room at the hotel, how it had the 
same kind of smell the apartment got a couple 
weeks ago. Maybe theyd brought it back with 
them. Plume looked at his hand.
So, Ms. Stockinghand, what would you like to 
do this evening? A little dinner perhaps? A movie? 
How about just coming back to my place and 
looking at my fabulous hardwood floors?
No way, scumbag, Ms. Stockinghand said,
Id rather roll around for an hour in a pool of 
thumbtacks than go out with you."
Plume took the sock from his hand and threw 
it over the porch rail. It landed in the hedges 
outside the door to the building. He laughed. Spina 
had made it so easy for him to talk, to say what
ever he felt like, and it never seemed odd or 
stupid. Plume liked when they would sit on the 
floor, blanket wrapped around them, and tell 
stories to each other about when they were little, 
living in non-descript hometowns with other kids 
named Ben, Michael, or Christopher. Spinas_____
favorite was about when Plume and his best friend 
would chase each other up and down the street on 
their bikes, and someone, usually Plume, would 
end up skidding out and tearing up his knee or 
something. Plume always thought it wierd she 
liked that story best, but maybe it was because he 
told it with fervor.
The same rattling of what Plume would swear 
were Spina's keys because she always rattled 
them before unlocking the door, either to get 
Plume's attention or find the right key, startled him 
again out on the porch, so this time he decided to 
go over to the door and open it to see if she were 
out there. But when he got to the door he just 
stood there waiting, waiting for the rattling to come 
again but it never did, so he made his way back to 
the porch and sat down. There was still packing to 
do, but he didnt want to do it right now. Shell 
freak when she walks in, he knows, but he doesnt 
really care, just wants to get out of the smell, and 
all the goddman noise those floorboards make in 
the middle of the night.
Felix? Spina had come in. Plume jumped 
from his seat; he hadnt heard her come in at all. 
On the porch, he said.
It took her a while to get out there, and Plume 
figured she had stopped in the living room to look 
at his bags, nearly packed, and the mess hed 
made in the bedroom, clothes scattered, and 
maybe she tried to figure out what was going on 
before finding him on the porch with his sun
glasses on, staring straight ahead at nothing in 
particular.
Your bags are in the middle of the living 
room, she said.
I know. Im packing.
Oh yeah? You going somewhere? She 
almost sounded hopeful.
Im leaving. Today.
She stared too. Oh, gee wiz, Felix, Im 
distressed. Why did you make this grand deci
sion?
This place smells like moldy shit.
Spina held Plumes sock in front of his face, 
the one he had dropped over the rail. You left this 
downstairs, she said.
I dont want it, he said, I hate socks. I hate 
the socks you gave me. The chair moaned as 
Plume shifted his weight. I thought you were 
going to be out most of the day.
I got bored. Figured youd be gone by now. 
They had made the decision to split the night 
before, or at least that was the compromise. It was 
at dinner, Plume dressed in his blue terry cloth 
robe, bare feet, and Spina all dressed for a night 
out somewhere, Plume never knew where, that 
they talked about things. Plume was never sure 
what things were, only that they usually meant 
some kind of change.
Spina had said, Felix, we need to talk about 
things.
Plume had noticed the choker around her 
neck. It was the ivory one hed given her, that he 
used to like to kiss when they were in bed, run his 
tongue across the smooth, polished bone that 
looked like rock. He had not been able to take his 
eyes off the choker as they talked, and Spina had 
gotten angry.
Youre not dressed.
Im not going out with you. I dont feel like it. 
He was still staring at her when she had said, 
Why dont you like going dancing?
I never did. You force me to go with you, and 
I have a lousy time.
Fine. Dont come with me then. Ever.
Good. I wont. And then she had taken off 
the choker and thrown it into the rice. They had 
not said anything more to each other since, and 
Plume left the dishes where they were when he 
went to bed, alone, not really wondering where 
she was and picturing what the necklace would 
look like in the morning, after sitting nine hours in 
a bowl of slowly congealing rice. ___
The rice was hard in its bowl this morning 
when Plume had gotten up and dug his suitcases 
out of the closets. He had not felt like doing the 
dishes, getting his hands all covered in greasy 
scum. Spina was already out, or not in yet, so he 
had fished the milk from the fridge and poured a 
bowl of Sugar Pops. He liked sugar pops; he could 
only taste sugar, no pop. He had spent the morn
ing eating all the cereal he could, pouring bowl 
after bowl until all the milk was gone. It had tasted 
real good.
Plume thought about the cereal as he looked 
at Spina sitting across from him on the porch, still 
holding his sock. Spina had figured he would be 
gone by now. Actually, so did he. But it was more 
difficult than he thought to get everything put away 
and all the cases secured. He told that to Spina.
I thought packing would be easier.
She got up. No problem. Ill make it easy.
There was an instant right when she started to 
move toward the living room and the suitcases 
planted throughout like mines that he wanted to 
reach out and stop her, pull her close to him and 
just hug her, see how she reacted. But he checked 
himself, sat back down, and listened to the noises 
she made, clacks, thumps, the goddamn creak of 
the floor, as she finished gathering his clothes and 
necessities. He listened to her steps, one, two, 
three, door, one, two, and knew when she was in 
the bedroom, or the bathroom, taking down his 
after shave, extra razors, his Alfa Romeo hand 
towel. She brought that out to him on the porch, 
threw it onto his lap, mumbling, I hate that fucking 
car. Too damn small. Over and over I keep saying 
too damn small. Plume thinks shes saying that 
just to piss him off. The cars right out front, waiting 
almost, brick red with two glass eyes always 
staring ahead, never behind. That was why Plume 
liked the car so much. It was a car that was meant 
to go forward.
His hand was in his pocket, fingering his keys. 
Leaning over the rail, he tried to guess how far 
down it was to the hedge where hed dropped the 
sock earlier. No more than twelve feet; second 
stories arent that high. He could hang from the 
ledge, cutting off about five feet from the drop.
Easy. No, he thought, it isnt right to just jump the 
rail and take off, not after everything they, had 
been through together. But Plume could only think 
of the endless bickering, yelling, and fighting they 
had done, except for the choker and them in bed 
when that was all Spina wore, how they growled 
for each other in the dark, groping, and Plume 
stretching his tongue to lick the ivory. ,
Plume figured that if Spina came out on the 
porch now, with him hanging from the porch by his 
fingertips, dangling in front of the Ulsers apart
ment, she would probably just step on his hands.
But Plume let go, flexing his knees best he could 
for the impact, scratching the shit out of his arm 
when he landed in the shrub. He limped to the car, 
opened the door, and sat down, realizing that he 
now had nowhere to go. He fumbled the keys into > 
the ignition and he looked through the window up 
to the porch. Spina was looking over the ledge at 
the crushed shrub, and Plume in the car, shaking 
her head back and forth. He didnt want to go back 
up there and get the rest of his clothes and things, 
Spina could have them if she wanted. He started 
the engine, pushed hard down on the clutch, and 
took inventory. He had the keys, the car, some 
gas, and the sock, which hed stuffed into his other j 
pocket. As he released the clutch and the engine 
whined through first gear, Plume thought about the 
choker, leaving it behind. It was okay; maybe shell 
pawn it downtown somewhere, in one of those 
stores with the gold chains dripping from the 
shelves, or maybe shell keep it. Plume wondered 
if it mattered. He decided it did, and redlined the 
engine until he hit 90.
Brett Molotsky

---------------------------------------------------

A Country Song 
In the Balcony
Speaking eyes,
Stealing looks,
How pretty seems 
My girl of dreams,
Standing in the balcony.
Flaming passions,
Blushing cheeks,
In early teens 
My girl of dreams,
Standing in the balcony.
Ringing laughters 
Singing tones 
A trickling stream 
My girl of dreams,
Standing in the balcony.
A twinkling star 
A rising moon 
A light to beam 
My girl of dreams, 
Standing in the balcony.
A fragrant breeze 
A fairy queen 
Have you seen?
My girl of dreams, 
Standing in the balcony.

---------------------------------------------------

Published by The Tartan 
Carnegie Mellon University 
February 16, 1988 
Volume 9 Number 3There is more difference 
within the sexes
-Ivy Compton-Burnett
