The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 42
Tartans Defeated 
By West Virginia
The Tartans racked up their fifth 
loss of the season on Saturday night, 
falling before a high-calibre West 
Virginia team by a 67-48 score. The 
result was pretty much the result of 
the Tartans being outclassed again, 
for the Mountaineers have been 
nosing about for a bid to the nation
al tournament at the end of the sea
son. West Virginias scoring was 
pretty well spread among the team, 
but Carrol and Wilson got 20 and 19 
points respectively. On the Tech 
side of the ledger, Tasso Katselas 
turned in his highest scoring per
formance of the season by dropping 
in nine fielders and two fouls for 
twenty points. Mike Theodore found 
the range for nineteen of Techs 
points, too, but the rest of the team 
could give little scoring support.
The team travels to the Pitt sta
dium this Saturday to do battle with 
the Panthers in the first return 
game of the season.
W. Va. G F P Carnegie G F P
Carrol .... 8 4 20 Clougherty .1 3 5
Byrd ........2 5 9 Katselas ...9 2 20
Wilson ___7 5 19 Theodore ...7 5 19
Dial ..........0 1 1 Klein ...........0 0 0
Walthall ..2 0 4 Scioscia ...0 2 2
Stakem ... 3 2 8 Fastuca .... 0 2 2
Auer ........0 2 2 Smuts, .JQL
Russo .......1 0 2 Morinello .. 0 0 0
Rice .........1 0 2 Minor ..........0 0 0
24 19 67 v 17 14 48
CIT Swimming Team 
Overcomes Y.M.C.A.; 
Defeated by Oberlin
In the swimming meet held at the 
Tech pool on January 16, the Ober
lin team walked off with a win, by 
the score of 57-18. Oberlin men plac
ed first in every event, and Techs 
only points came by virtue of runner-up positions. Medley relay:
won by Oberlin team of Hillary,
Kratovitch, and Smith in 3:24.4.
220: 1st, Schwartz (0.); 2nd, Jarrett
(T.); 3rd, Douglass (T.). Time: 2:50.5.
50-yard free style: 1st, Burkert (0.);
2nd, Schindeldecker (0.); 3rd, Laguerella 
(T.). Time: 26.5.
Diving: 1st, Curtis (0.), 80.5 points; 2nd 
Robertson (0), 70 points; 3rd, Emerson 
(T.), 56.6 points.
50-yard backstroke: 1st, Hillary (0.);
2nd, Eyman (T.); 3rd, Rubin (0.). Tiifte: 
1:44.4.
Breast Stroke: 1st, Popjeil (0.); 2nd, 
Resch (0); 3rd, Pearlstein (T.). Time: 
3:06.6.
440-yard free style: 1st, Bradshaw
(0); 2nd, Jarrett (T); 3rd, Douglass (T.). 
Time: 6:30.4.
Relay: Oberlin team of Birket, Smith, 
Masters, and Giroard won in 4:23.5.
Notices
There are still installments due 
on student pledges for the United 
War Fund Drive. The Office of the 
Comptroller requests that these 
debts be taken care of immediately.
Senior Life Saving classes will be 
held on Thursday at 3:00.
Please keep in mind that the next 
Carnegie Tech Days at the Red 
Cross Blood Bank will be March 8, 
9 and 10.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.JANUARY 23, 1945
Kappa Alpha Theta, 
Chi Omega Initiate 
Members Saturday/
On Saturday, January 20, at the 
Carnegie Union, the Chi Omegas 
held an iniation ceremony. Arrange
ments for this were made by Jane 
Englehardt and Irene Waichler. 
Those initiated were the following: 
Ada Bucy 
Dorothy Coar 
Audrey Colledge 
Madele Cook 
Esther Haushalter 
Helen Kapetan 
Anna Mary Longridge 
Camille McCullough 
Mary Lou Mooney 
Marie Raynal 
Valentine Rochez 
Lindsey Jordan arranged for a 
dinner for the new actives at Jacktown Hotel. The initiates big sisters 
gave them Chi Omega recognition 
pins and corsages of the Chi Omega 
flower, white carnations.
On Saturday, January 20, four 
Kappa Alpha Theta pledges were 
initiated into the fraternity at the 
Pitt Theta House. Those girls who 
were initiated are:
Joanne Hipp 
Patricia Jones PryTfis Petrikin 
She Crobaugh
Following the ceremony a dinner 
was held at the Royal York.
Thistle and Handbook 
Near Early Completion
The yearly publications of Car
negie Tech, The Thistle and The 
Handbook are, according to their 
respective editors, Jo Sunseri and 
Tom Bokman, to be completed in 
April. The Thistle, the Carnegie 
yearbook, describing college activ
ities and featuring the graduating 
class, is at present ahead of sched
ule. If the printer and the engraver 
keep up to this staff, it should be out 
on time. In order to include any 
additional senior activities, you are 
rquested to call at the Thistle of
fice, room 232 IH, any Thursday or 
Friday from 3 to 5. The Handbook, 
written principally for the fresh
men to describe the college, its tra
ditions, its activities, and other facts 
of interest, is published by the 
members of Pi Delta Epsilon, 
which is the journalistic honorary 
on campus.
War Bond Results
The results of the Carnegie Tech 
Bond Drive have been announced. 
Carnegie Tech has been credited 
with $215,206.
Staff ......................................$ 23,206
Students ............................... 2,000
CIT Fund ........................... 180,000
$205,206
The students are to be congratu
lated. Special honors go to Alpha 
Epsilon Phi, which was responsible 
for the Bond Booth throughout the 
Drive.
Professor L. B. Siegfried 
Appointed Printing Head
Associated Artists 
Open Exhibition 
At Carnegie Galleries
The annual exhibition of the As
sociated Artists of Pittsburgh will 
be held at the galleries of Carnegie 
Institute from February 15 to March
15. Each member and candidate 
member of the Associate Artists is 
eligible to enter two pieces of his 
work for exhibition. A jury will 
select the entries to be exhibited, 
and, after the opening of the ex
hibition, will awar dthe prizes.
Mr. Norwood MacGilvary, who 
has taught in the Painting and De
sign Department of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology for twenty-three 
years, is president of the artist 
group. Its members are painters, 
sculpturors, craft workers, and 
musicians. Practically every fac
ulty member of Carnegie Techs 
P. & D. department is a member, 
and many P. & D. seniors and under
classmen are candidate members. 
Mr. MacGilvary mentioned with 
pride that, on several occasions, stu
dents of Techs Painting and De
sign Department have received 
prizes in the annual exhibitions.
Mr. MacGilvary announces as the 
jury for this years exhibition: Reg
inald Marsh and Guy Pene du Bois, 
painters from New York City; Heinz 
Warnecke, a sculptor from New 
York City; and Kenneth Bates, a 
specialist in the field of arts and 
crafts from Cleveland.
Ritter Wins 1st Prize 
For Abstract Painting
In the recent annual show of 
Johnstown artists, Biz Ritter won 
first prize in the abstract section. 
The painting was a group of four 
abstracts which she had done in 
painting class.
Judging the show were Mr. Mac
Gilvary from Carnegie Tech, Louise 
Pershing, and Mrs. Geysen.
Biz is a sophomore in the P. & D. 
Department and has previously ex
hibited in Johnstown and in the As
sociated Artists show last year.
Schedule Announced For 
Intramural Basketball
Prof. Risedorph has announced 
the new decisions of the Intramural 
board concerning intramural bas
ketball, in which league competition 
will begin about February 20.
The league, of course, is open to 
any fraternity or independent group 
team. The fraternities are sure to 
enter, but the support of indepen
dent groups is not yet in evidence. 
The entering team must submit a 
roster, which is limited to ten 
names. Every man participating 
must have a physical fitness card 
from the school doctor, a safety 
measure inserted this year to pre
vent him from damaging himself 
for dear old Tech.
Assumes Duties As 
Prof. of Graphic Arts
Laurance B. Siegfried, University 
Printer and Associate Professor of 
Journalism at Syracuse University, 
has been appointed Professor of 
Graphic Arts and Head of the De
partment of Printing at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, effective 
July 1.
Professor Siegfried succeeds Glen 
U. Cleeton, who recently was made 
Director of the Division of Human
istic and Social Studies at Carnegie. 
Director Cleeton will continue as 
Chairman of the Department of 
Printing Endowment Fund cam
paign.
Carnegie is the only college in the 
world which grants a degree in 
printing. The Department of Print
ing, a regular department of the 
College of Engineering, offers a 
four-year course leading to the B. S. 
degree and a two-year course for 
college graduates.
Professor Siegfried has been con
nected with printing, publishing, 
and advertising since his graduation 
from Harvard with the A. B. degree 
cum laude in 1913. He has been a 
vice-president and director of the 
American Institute of Graphic Arts, 
the editor of many publications, and 
a judge in the N. W. Ayer National 
Newspaper Typography Contest. He 
is the author of Typographical De
sign in Advertising and numerous 
articles in printing and advertising 
publications. In June, 1943, he was 
awarded the Harry J. Friedman Me
morial Medal for distinguished 
service in the cause of Graphic Arts 
Education.
Polish-American Youth 
Plan to Hold Conference
Plans are being made to hold a 
conference of the Polish-American 
Youth of the tri-state area during 
the month of February. Before final 
plans can be made, a promising at
tendance must be assured.
The purpose behind this gather
ing is to bring about closer contact, 
both intellectually and socially, 
among the national Polish-Ameri
can Youth Federation members, 
students and youth from the tri
state area.
Those who are interested are urg
ed to contact:
Miss Jo Anne Ujeski, 
805 Bluff Street, 
Duquesne University. 
Phone: Court 8443 after six oclock.
Correction
In the last issue of the TARTAN an 
error was made in the items listed in the 
calendar. We wish to correct that error 
here.
Registration for entering Engineering 
freshmen is on June 1, Friday, and on 
June 2, Saturday. Registration for all 
other engineering students is on June 4, 
Monday, and classes begin for all engi
neering students for the Summer Semes
ter on June 5, Tuesday.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANJANUARY 23, 1945
CdUtosiA. AtoncUcu/i
NeededA Shot in ACACs Arm
In spite of the fact that the ACAC is purportedly the representative 
council of the student body, it does not function as such. It has become 
merely a clearing house for social affairs sponsored by the various cam
pus organizations.
The most flagrant violation of its purpose is the absence in its ranks of 
a representative from the Engineering School, a vacancy created when the 
incumbent of last semester left school to join the service. The council voted 
at its last meeting to dispense with the elections for a new representative 
this semester simply because the group would have to hold another 
election in March, at which time the members of the fall semester would 
be elected. Must we then infer council members are too busy? Too lazy? 
Too disinterested? Our beliefs lean toward the last explanation, for at the 
discussion of the elections we failed to hear forceful argument from any 
except one lone member who, incidentally, lobbied for an election now.
Although the Engineering School does not enjoy the large enrollment 
of two years ago, it is still an integral part of Carnegie Tech and must not 
suffer neglect. The engineers, according to the constitution of ACAC, are 
entitled to havenay, must havean elected representative to the coun
cil, in order to make the council truly representative. The engineering stu
dents have every right to demand a representative. If they do we shall be 
assured that the Carnegie Tech students will take advantage of their 
privileges and not permit themselves to be over-run by a phlegmatic 
group. If the students dont take the matter into their own hands, ACAC 
should at least respect its own integrity sufficiently to hold the election.
We fail to be impressed by ACACs treatment of its business at hand. 
Rather than discuss a proposal or petition until no questions may be raised 
against it, the members table it for the following week. We realize that 
a petition may be tabled for one week, but certainly that is long enough to 
make any corrections. If a question involving the administration is raised, 
the coordinatora member of the administration who sits on ACAC 
should be present and prepared to answer it. If a question for more in
formation from an organization is raised, a member of the group present
ing the petition should be present to answer it. Problems should be handled 
as soon as they come up and disposed of as soon as possible. We are re
minded of two proposals, one of which has been in the hands of the coun
cil for the last five weeks, and another for nine. Imagine what a sad state 
of affairs there would be if petitions had to be handed in two or three 
months before the date of the requested affair.
Perhaps if the students who placed the members of ACAC in their 
positions would get behind and push them a bit, they would get more of 
the things they would like to have. Instead of merely talking about dances, 
Spring Carnival, and the like, they should ask their respective representa
tives to sponsor the proposals at ACAC meetings. Or, better still, they 
should go to the meetings themselves.
It may be that the fault lies here. Very few students are aware of the 
fact that council meetings are open to them, and consequently, all action 
is taken according only to the personal reactions and opinions of the rep
resentatives. If everyone will take advantage of his right, we may have 
an organization actually representative of the student body and function
ing in accordance with is wishes.
ACAC seems extremely apathetic this semester. If it refuses to change 
this condition, the students themselves should force the body to function 
properly.
Get behind your representative. Demand your rights from your coun
cil. Push the members. Transform the Army Civilian Activities from a 
static group to a dynamic organization.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
rtaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
Letters To The Editor
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
fflONE MAYFLOWER 200 PHONE SCHENL.E 4581
REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
420 Vol.38N Ave. New 482Th N. Y.
ea.ro38 t n83s8N  Los cNkdud3 t poi f2oNr.3r8
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-chief........... Emerson 1808
Business Manager........Jackson 9896
Entered as second-class matter In the Pittsburgh Tost Office under the Act of March 3, 1870. 
Published weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price 81.10 per year.
Editor-in-chief ............................................................................................... Adeline C. Herlick
Managing Editor ...................................................................................................... Clara Herron
Assistant Managing Editor ................................................................................... Augie Binder
News Editor .............................................................................................................. Dorothy King
Copy Editor ........................................................................*...................... Mary Jane Horridge
Headline Editor ........................................................................................................ Augie Binder
ReportersJeanne Boltey, Ann Daniels, Lou Emmel} lmogene Grove, Audrey Hobe, 
Georgette Paljug, Rosemary Lang, B. J. Kreimer, Ann Shivey, Anita Newell.
Dear Editor:
It has recently come to my notice 
that the College of Engineering has 
no representative on the Activities 
Committee at the present time. I 
think that the proper thing to do 
would be for the Committee to hold 
an election to choose such a repre
sentative.
The situation existing at this 
school reminds me of a little inci
dent which took place about 170 
years ago. It seems that 13 of the 
American Colonies of the British 
Empire revolted against that Em
pire. One of the causes given for this 
revolution was that the Colonists 
were being taxed without being rep
resented on the legislature which 
levied those taxes.
I do not think that one need be a 
genius to understand the analogy 
between the Colonists who were 
taxed by the House of Lords and the 
House of Commons of England, and 
the students of the College of En
gineering who are bound by the de
cisions of the Activities Committee 
on which they have no representa
tion.
I hope that this letter will call to 
the attention of the Activities Com
mittee the fact that the Engineers 
would like to have some say in the 
decisions made by that body, and 
not have their decisions made for 
them by Fine Arts students and 
Maggie Murphs.
I understand that an election is 
to be held in March to elect repre
sentatives who will take office in
October when the next school year 
begins. However, I think it impera
tive that a representative from the 
College of Engineering be elected to 
serve for the remainder of this se
mester.
Sincerely yours,
E. R. Stephens.
Dear Editor,
As a Techite of long standing I 
wish to write a word or two about 
the Freshmen regulations. I started 
at Tech in 1941, the last year we had 
freshman regulations, and I can as
sure you that I shall never forget 
the first few months at school. I had 
to learn all the traditions about our 
wonderful school, and to this day I 
have not forgotten them.
The other night I happened to ask 
a new freshman a few questions 
about the school. He answered with 
a blank expression that he didnt 
even know what the canteen was 
before it was the canteen. He didnt 
even know where the bow of the 
ship was and what ship it was; he 
didnt even know the motto of the 
school. Although our school is a 
young one, there are many stories 
and traditions that are dear to us. 
The wearing of the dink and Cam
eron plaid tie, the Kiltie band, and 
the beanery. I think that we will 
be cheating the new students out of 
the best part of their college career, 
unless we resurrect Freshmen Reg
ulations.
My heart is in the work
E. S. Berkowitz.
... A.C.A.C. Minutes...
The meeting was called to order at 5:15 
p.m.
Present: Messrs. Daniels and Lerman;
Misses Bauer, Brooks, Garland, Swaney 
and Werner.
OLD BUSINESS
Revised Freshman Regulations
Mr. Lerman moved that the Activities 
Council approve the Revised Freshman 
Regulations submitted by Interhonorary 
Council.
Motion carried.
Tecvets
Mr. Lerman moved that the constitu
tion of the Carnegie Tech Veterans post 
be returned for revision.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS 
Co-Chairman
Nominations for co-chairman:
Adele Bauer.
Mr. Lerman moved that the secretary 
be instructed to cast a unanimous ballot 
for Miss Bauer.
Motion carried.
Constitution Committee
Miss Garland moved that Mr. Lerman 
be appointed to the constitution com
mittee.
Motion carried.
The constitution committee now con
sists of Miss Ferraez, Messrs. Lerman and 
Snow.
Membership Vacancies
Because of the short time remaining in 
the school year, Miss Garland moved that 
the vacancies should not be filled until 
the regular election in March.
Motion carried.
Mortar Board
Miss Garland moved that Mortar 
Boards petition to have an all-school 
dance in Thistle Hall on Saturday, Feb
ruary 10, 1945, from 10:00 p.m. to 1:00 
a.m. be tabled.
Motion carried.
Panhellenic Council
Miss Werner moved that the Activities 
Council give Panhellenic Council per
mission to hold a bridge for all fraternity 
women in the Canteen on Friday, January 
26, 1945, from 7:00 to 11:00 p.m.
Motion carried.
Tecvets
Miss Werner moved that the Activities 
Council give permission to the Tecvets 
to hold a party in the Union on January
19, 1945, from 8:00 p.m. to 12:00 p.m.
Motion carried.
Citcom Clan
Miss Werner moved that the Activities 
Council give permission to Citcom Clan 
to hold a party at the Canteen on Friday, 
January 19, 1945, from 7:30 p.m. to 11:30 
p.m.
Motion carried.
Home Economics Club
Miss Bauer moved that the constitution 
of the Home Economics Club be tabled 
until the next meeting.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
SHIRLEY SWANEY,
Secretary.
Foul Shooting
The foul shooting contest held 
last Wednesday and Thursday even
ings was confined entirely to frater
nity participation. Only ten men ap
peared, nine Delts and an SAE.
Gillespie led after the first nights 
fifty shots, sinking 32 of them. Lom
bardo, Hall, and Johnson followed 
in that order with 31, 30, and 29.
The following evening saw John
son set a blistering pace by convert
ing 36 of his 50 opportunities^ but 
Gillespie placed an amazing 42 in 
successfully, to coast in with 74 con
versions out of one hundred. During 
this amazing performance, he at one 
time sank twenty straight shots. 
Runnerup was  Johnson with 65, 
while Hall and Lombardo tied with 
62 for third.
YOU NEED HIM! 
HE NEEDS YOU!

---------------------------------------------------

JANUARY 23, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
For the next two weeks the 
Drama Department is presenting its 
annual Shakespeare play. The play 
that has been chosen for this year is 
Alls Well that Ends Well, which is 
not one of his most popular plays 
at least, it is not frequently given. 
We who have seen the past seven or 
eight Shakespearean productions 
do not think that this is one of the 
most successful; nevertheless, we 
feel that anyone who has never seen 
an Elizabethan play would find it 
interesting to go down to the Little 
Theater during the next few days 
to get an idea of how these plays 
are staged. Most of us have had to 
read several Shakespearean plays 
in our high school English courses, 
and perhaps have found it hard to 
believe that these plays can come 
to life on the stage like a modern 
play. The current show will imme
diately banish any such ideasit is 
certainly alive (at least, as much as 
any of the other plays that have 
been given this season.)
The plot can be simply summed 
up as the old one about a girl who is 
trying to get the man she loves. 
The new twist is that she marries 
him at the beginning of the play, 
and spends the next three acts try
ing to make him love her. She 
eventually succeeds, by means of 
one of those mistaken identity sit
uations of which Shakespeare was 
so fond and which may strike a 
modem audience as slightly too 
naive.
One of the most interesting things 
about this production is the stag
ing. The set is modelled after an 
Elizabethan theater, where the ac
tors play in front of the curtain and 
back in the scene alternately. Since 
the closing of the curtain usually 
denotes a change of place, it is a 
little confusing at first, for the 
scenes follow each other in rapid 
succession.
The play is a comedy, and 
abounds in puns, some of which are 
lost unless one has read it shortly 
before seeing the show. There is 
also room for many entertaining bits 
of horseplay which were inserted by
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COINES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
the director. Another amusing fea
ture is the atrocious English pro
nunciation of French proper
names, but since this is good 
Shakespearean tradition, it is not 
for us to complain. The part which 
the first-night audience liked best 
was the double talk scene, in which 
a group of soldiers takes one of their 
own men prisoner and tries to make 
him believe they are foreigners who 
understand no English.
The performances of the individ
ual actors were a little uneven. Pa
tricia Turton portrayed the hero so 
that after her first two speeches no 
one was the least disturbed by the 
fact that a girl was playing a mans 
part. She managed to give such a 
masculine tone to her posture and 
general attitude that if it had not 
been for the voice we would have 
thought that there was a mistake on 
the program. In other words, we 
thought she did very well in a dif
ficult situation. Kate McKinney and 
Ellen Hovde also played the parts 
of men creditably, but not quite as 
successfully as Miss Turton. Mary 
Laura Wood played the heroine in a 
fashion that we found too strongly 
reminiscent of her Millamant in 
The Way of the World. We felt that 
her interpretation of Helena per
vading all her speeches would be 
much more suitable for this loving 
girl who knows that her husband is 
being unfaithful to her. Of course 
that is only our humble opinion.
Ray Boyle, whom we have not 
seen before on the stage of the Lit
tle Theater turned in an excellent 
performance as an old and sensible 
courtier. Clark Marlor played a 
rascally braggart delightfully  we 
believe he did this role better than 
any other we have ever seen him in. 
Priscilla Dodge was capable and 
dignified as the Countess, while
A former Tech student, Louis S. 
Murphy, was recently graduated 
from the Information and Education 
course of the School for Personal 
Services at Lexington, Va. From 
there he was transferred as a cap
tain to the ASF Training Center at 
Fort Belvoir, Va.
Another former Techite making 
good in the armed services is First 
Lieutenant Robert V. Secrist, who 
recently completed his fiftieth com
bat mission as a navigator on a Fly
ing Fortress. His last mission was 
over the Florisdorf Oil Refineries in 
Austria. He is now a qualified mem
ber of the Half Hundred club and 
also wears the Distinguished Fly
ing Cross and the Air Medal with 3 
Oak Leaf Clusters.
Other Tech students in the news 
of the armed forces are Aviation 
Cadet Robert John Fingal, Jr., and 
Lt. Harry S. Owens. Fingal has beJack Hochhauser was a very un
conventional but amusing clown.
The play ended with an interesting 
little song, for which the whole cast 
lined up at the edge of the stage and 
did a little dance step. We know 
that the characters had to get off the 
stage somehow, and that drama 
students must not necessarily be 
able to sing and dance, but if they 
must end their show this way we 
wish they would learn to do it all 
together!
gun advanced flight training in 
high level bombardiering and dead 
reckoning navigation at Carlsbad, 
N. M. Owens graduated from the 
Army Air Forces Officer Candidate 
School of the San Antonio Aviation 
Cadet Center.
SEEMLLER
DAIRY STORE
417 Craig St. 
Milkshakes and Sandwiches
AIKEN-FORBES 
TAILORING CO.
CLEANING and PRESSING 
ALTERING and REPAIRING
We Call and Deliver 
5817 Forbes street HAze! 3601
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
SC. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
You And Your 
Out-of-Town Friends
will find comfortable 
accommodations
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make your reservations 
well in advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
Tech Service Men and Women Are 
Especially Welcome
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
MAyflower 7700
Qu gran vida, amigos!... Have a Coke
(WHAT A UFE, PALS f)
... or being ambassadors of good will in Panama
From Panama to Providence, Have a Coke is your American sailors 
invitation to share fun or a song and refreshment. Its his way of say
ing, Relax, lets take it easy. And thats what it means when you offer 
ice-cold Coca-Cola in your own home. Yes, Coca-Cola and the pause 
that refreshes stand for friendliness with a good old American accent.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
UOCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH. P/
CokeCoca-Cola
It natural for popular names 
to acquire friendly abbrevia
tions. Thats why you hear 
Coca-Cola called Coke.

---------------------------------------------------

4THL CARNEGIE TARTANJANUARY 23, 1945The Plaid
Look For Your Valentine
The Valentine Party is the first 
get-together of this semester. This is 
just a harbinger of the good news 
because the actual plans are still in 
the making. It will be held some
time in February and were telling 
you now so you can be anxiously 
following your Plaid for more def
inite arrangements. Be on the look
out for further announcements.
An Appeal To The Students
All students interested in extra
curricular activities, should report 
to room 232 (Pattern Shop) in the 
Industries building on Friday even
ing for Plaid work or write to Joe 
Rymar, the Editor of the Plaid, box 
362, Carnegie Tech. Surely there are 
still some interested people at school 
who would like to earn one of Even
ing Students Councils beautiful In
signia.
These awards are really some
thing to be proud of and your inter
est and help on the Plaid will earn 
for you the necessary merits that 
Evening Student Council requires 
of any student before he can become 
a proud possesser of this meritorious 
pin.
Evening Students Notice!
The Swimming Pool in the Gym 
Building is open every Wednesday 
night from 7:00 P. M. to 10:30 P. M. 
for the students use.
The Plaid
Editor 
Joseph M. Rymar
News Editor
Mary de Maria 
Associate Editors 
Ruth McGraw 
Arlene McMurray
Page edited by Evening School Students of Car
negie Institute of Technology. All views or 
opinions expressed in editorial column are not 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
Staff
Olive Baumgardner Elaine Martin
Florence Chorba Frank Mihelich
Virginia Ehni Dorothy Papa
Thelma Kitchen Milton Ryan
Irene Koemer Dorothy Shields
S. W. Marcinizyn Lois Schultz
Fred Vichich
Here I am againalways popping 
up when the coals are hotand just 
to start things really jumping, your 
8-ball editor feels he must mention 
the results of the carefully planned 
three blind dates Dottie arranged 
for the Interfrat-Council Dinner 
Dance. It seems that while passing 
out bulletins during registration, 
Dottie had a rather hectic time get
ting people together. From what Im 
told, the parties involved finally 
matched up on the fateful night of 
the dance after Arlene and the rest 
of the members of Council expend
ed efforts taking turns on the dog 
watch . . . Notice we have a few 
returning G. I.s in evening school 
this term, a few of whom are Max 
Leva, Nick Amorocchi, Vince Poylan . . . We hear Nancy Lewis is 
back from Panama and is now reg
istered in school . . . Bits of news 
here and there, eventually well get 
you there . . . Anyhow far enough 
to inform you that it isnt the end 
of the line until, with regrets, we 
let Johnny Vranich and Thelma 
(Mitzi) Kitchen off. Both students 
have done an excellent jobdevot
ing their time to evening school ac
tivities. Johnny was responsible for 
all those cleverly printed posters 
advertising our various social func
tions, while Mitzi, tirelessly and 
successfully, planned and managed 
these affairs. It is with regret that 
we see them leave, hoping Mitzi will 
be back with us again in the near 
future, and that Johnny, wherever 
he goes, will remember us and keep 
in contact with those he left here at 
Tech. Bon Voyage, Say-lor! . . . 
Whats this about John Hundertmark bringing a chic number to the
A Simplified 
Checking Account
PROVIDES
The safety and all the convenience of any 
bank account.
With inexpensive Pay-as-You-Go privilege.
No Minimum Balance Requirement.
No limit on deposits or withdrawals.
No charge to your account.
THE FORBES NATIONAL BANK
of Pittsburgh
FIFTH AND OAKLAND 
GULF BUILDING, SEVENTH AND GRANT
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
dance Ive been raving about so 
much in this column? Glad to have 
you Johnny, but who is she! . . . 
A1 Flanders is putting that super 
brain to work now studying the dif
ficult of the Nippos at the Univer
sity of Minnesota. Nice going, Al. 
Next time you write to us make sure 
its in English . . . Well, now that 
the coals have died down, and the 
corns all popped, Ill close prom
ising to see you next week, same 
time, same place.
Play Begins January 20
The play, Alls Well That Ends 
Well, is just what the title implies. 
Verify this by attending. The play, 
directed by Iden Payne, the famous 
director of Shakespearean drama, 
will be held at the Little Theatre, 
Fine Arts Building, for two weeks 
beginning Saturday, January 20 and 
ending February 3.
Two tickets may be obtained by 
each Evening School student by pre
senting his registration card at the 
office of the Assistant Registrar, In
dustries Hall, 255-C. Get your tick
ets promptly! They are going fast!
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
"Hello. Mom !
Ite Me !"
Of all the Long Distance calls that go over our 
lines these days, none brings more joy than  
"Hello, Mom! Its me!" 
So please do everything you can to keep the 
wires clear for returning service men, and for 
those in camps, especially from 7 to 10 each 
night.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA
