The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 39 No. 12CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1946
Dr. Lang States 
Changes in Dept
Dr. Lang, head of the General Sci
ence Department at Margaret Mor
rison, recently announced a change 
in the science curriculum. This 
change will affect present sopho
mores and entering freshmen. The 
Science Department will now offer 
two separate options, one a major 
in chemistry, the other a major in 
biology. These will replace the 
single limited course consisting of 
four years of chemistry and three 
years of biology.
The new biology option will in
clude a foundation of two years in 
either organic, physical, analytical 
or bio-chemistry; but most of the 
time will be alloted to the biolog
ical sciences, such as bacteriology, 
histology, and new courses in com
parative anatomy, and parasitology. 
This biology major will be particu
larly for those interested in pre
medical work, but can also serve as 
preparation for graduate studies or 
work in a bacteriological, medical, 
or food laboratory.
The chemistry option, along with 
its four years of organic, analytical, 
and physical chemistry plus new 
courses in advanced physical and 
bio-chemistry, will include math, 
physics, and some biology. After fin
ishing this curriculum, the student 
may go into graduate study or be
gin work as a technician in 
analytical or research laboratories.
continued on page 10
Mortar Board Drops Tea
Mortar Board Tea, previously 
scheduled for Sunday, January 21, 
1946, has been called off because it 
was decided that the date for the 
tea was too near examinations for 
the fall semester.
Changes Announced 
In Registration Dates
In order to increase the effi
ciency of the registration pro
cedure, students who are in at
tendance at CIT this semester are 
requested to register for the se
mester commencing February 1, 
1946, as follows:
College of Engineering and Sci
ence:
Second - Semester Freshmen  
Register in Thistle Hall 
AL January 30 
MZ January 31 
SophomoresRegister in Gymna
sium 
January 30 
Junior and Seniors  Register 
In Gymanisum 
January 31 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College 
Freshmen and Sophomores 
Register January 31 
Juniors and Seniors 
Register January 30 
College of Fine Arts 
Freshmen and Sophomores 
Register January 30 
Juniors and Seniors 
Register January 31
Visitor From 44Wide Open Spaces 
Plays Techites for Prize Suckers
He is not handsome, he doesnt use 
Vitalis, and he definitely has a nega
tive type of personality as far as 
Tech Students are concerned. Yes 
we are talking about Douglas Slim
Sommerville Beighley, our nomina
tion for Criminal of the Week.
As you, our discerning readers, 
know this title is not given lightly 
but with malice aforethoughtTech 
students certainly have the afore
mentioned malice and is definitely 
not an afterthought.
Doug, or Slim as we would rather 
call him, claimed his father owned 
some ranches in New Mexico. The 
number of ranches varied from two 
to ten depending upon the time of 
day, and the amount of money he 
wished to borrow.
Borrowing money was Slims prin
cipal hobby it seems because any
thing from $1.00 to $15.00 was eag
erly taken from innocent Tech stu
dents. Little did they know that the 
bank account he talked of would 
never be opened. Also little did 
those students who kindly cashed 
checks for him know that in New 
Mexico there was a bank that has 
to date some $20,000.00 worth of his 
worthless checks.
Slims fleecing of young, naive, 
guilesless Tech students was quite 
complete. While the exact total of 
what he managed to make off with 
is not exactly known what we do 
know is that Slim definitely did dis
appear.
One day he was here, bright and 
merry, gaily laughing at seven no 
trump bids and drinking Skibos 
matchless coffee as if he hadnt a 
care in the world.
So poor students, and if you met 
Slim you definitely are poor, he has 
left the lovely Carnegie Tech Cam
pus to seek greener pastures. The 
only memory of him that lingers 
is one of empty wallets and bounc
ing checks. ______
Hordes of Greeks Throng 
To In ter fraternity Dance/
The old I. F. returned to Tech last 
Friday night in almost all its pre
war glory when a couple hundred 
Fraternity men and their dates in
vaded the Imperial Room of Webster 
Hall to dance to the music of Clyde 
Knight and his orchestra.
Without a doubt Clyde Knights 
band was the best heard on the Tech 
campus this year. However, the fra
ternity boys werent content with 
the strictly instrumental music, so 
they gave out with some of their 
own dis-harmonious renditionsexLarge Midyear Class 
Of Freshmen Enrolled 
In Engineering School
(See Editorial, page 2)
/ When enrollment statistics con
cerning new students are compiled 
after the February registration the 
CIT administration expects to find 
that it will have admitted one of the 
largest mid-year classes in the his
tory of the college. The College of 
Engineering will enroll more Fresh
men than it has during any previous 
midyear war-time registration, and 
the College of Fine Arts will for the 
first time in its history admit a Feb
ruary class. The majority of the 
scheduled 390 students will be veter
ans coming here under the provis
ions of the GI Bill of Rights.
In Engineering, approximately 
ninety-five per cent of the expected 
freshman class of 150 will be vets.
There will be at least 117 former 
Carnegie students who will enroll 
as upperclassmen under the GI Bill.
A large proportion of the advanced 
students, those who have studied in 
other colleges, will also be ex-serv
ice men.
The Arts school has set up its 
mid-year class solely for the pur
pose of making education in the arts 
immediately available to the veter
ans. A plan has been set up where
by each department will have a 
February freshman class provided 
that there are at least twelve eligi
ble students applying for enroll
ment then. No new department will 
take more than twenty students in 
the mid-year freshman class. In all 
the Arts classes, eligible vets will 
receive precedence over regular ap
plicants, but if they apply, enough 
civilians will be taken to fill the 
twenty student quotas if a sufficient 
number of veterans do not qualify.
The freshmen enrolling now will 
attend classes during the summer 
and will unite with the regular Fine 
Arts sophomore class in the fall.
Approximately 900 veterans have 
applied for enrollment in the Fresh
man Engineering classes. Of these 
only one hundred and fifty have 
been accepted. Almost all returning 
former Tech students have been re
enrolled, and all qualified veteran 
transfers from other colleges have 
been accepted as well. Veterans not 
accepted for this freshman class may 
compete on an equal basis with fur
ther applicants for June registration.
Ransom Gets the Bird
cept for the D Us whose vocal tal
ents were restricted to Boots and 
Saddles. The Pi K As brought along 
their own entertainment as master 
of ceremonies Les Engle gave the 
bird to Harry Ransom.
The climax of the evening came 
after the dance with the individual 
fraternities serving 2 oclock break
faststhe term covering everything 
from the Tau Delts cake and ginger 
ale to the Delts spaghetti and meat 
balls. _
Mortar Board Will Give 
King of Hearts Ball
A new twist to an old practice will 
be the theme of the Mortar Board 
sponsored King of Hearts Ball 
which will take place February 23 
from 9:00 to 1:00 in the Thistle Hall.
For years now, Tech has been 
honoring its most beautiful women 
as Thistle Queens, Bond Queens, or 
as members of the Senior Court. No 
one has paid much attention to the 
poor boys. But every dog must have 
his day; so this year the men will 
have their chance to compete for the 
title of King of Hearts.
The contestants will consist of 
one representative from each of the 
fraternities, and two men represent
ing the Independents. The winner 
will be crowned at the ball. Brad 
Hunt will furnish music for this all
school dance.
Come on all you bee-oo-tiful 
men, nows your chance to rise and 
shine.
Twenty-six Graduate 
In Midyear Ceremony
On Sunday, February 3rd at 3:00, 
commencement exercises for the 
February graduates will be held in 
the Little Theater. Mr. Walter J. 
Blenko, E21, a member of the Exe
cutive Committee will be the speak
er.
There are twenty-six students 
graduating at this time; twenty are 
from the College of Engineering 
and six from Margaret Morrison.
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

2
 -THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1946
S'dUoi'i, AnmchcUsi
Johnny Comes Marching Home
In the Press of the nation for the past few days there has been a great 
deal written about the policy of Colleges and Universities in regard to the 
enrollment of veterans. Government officials, laymen, and even the heads 
of educational institutions have condemned the refusal of admittance to 
thousands of qualified former soldiers which is taking place in all the 
larger colleges of the nation. The Universities are being censured for 
incompetence, negligence, intellectual snobbery, sloth, and lack of patri
otism, gratitude, and foresight. When you saw those enrollment figures 
on page one you probably were convinced that the Carnegie Tech adminis
tration is guilty of all the aforementioned sins because it has taken only 
150 of the 900 veterans who have applied for admission
In order to understand the problem facing the Educators, it would 
perhaps be well to get a clear picture of the enrollment situation as it will 
be shaping up in the near future. Applying for enrollment in the colleges 
of the nation in the next three of four years will be four types of pro
spective students. There will of course be the usual young-and-innocents 
who have just graduated from high school; there will be many boys who 
intended to go to college after their graduation from hi^h school but we^re 
drafted; there will be men who attended college for two or three years 
before they left for armed service and who will want to finish their edu
cations; lastly there will be a large number of men who normally could 
never afford to attend college at all without the financial support offered by 
the GI Bill of Rights. The colleges are asked to handle this great influx with 
facilities geared to handle only the usual number of high-school graduates.
The voices of the people are demanding that educational institutions 
expand to accommodate the thousands of veterans clamoring justly for 
entrance at their doors. They claim that it is merely inertia and a desire 
for pedagogical luxury which is keeping the institutions from gearing their 
educational programs to the larger number of students. The administrators 
of Carnegie Tech answer the above charges in the following way: They 
say that in the first place there is not at present enough dormitory space on 
campus to house an incoming February freshman class of even 500 (in 
many cases plus wives). In the second place, the Carnegie faculty is still 
thirty per cent below normal in size because of the war, and is not prepared 
to handle a normal enrollment at present. Lastly they say that the most 
important single reason for their refusal of additional students is that there 
simply is not enough laboratory space available for so great an influx. The 
housing shortage might temporarily be relieved by the construction of 
barracks on the cut, professors might possibly be dreamed up from some
where, but the building of structures capable of housing all the complicated 
equipment of a laboratory, and the purchase of that equipment (if avail
able) would be impossible to accomplish before September and simply 
would not be a practical investment for the institution to make when the 
buildings probably would not be needed for more than five or six years.
You may ask why more students cannot be taken without expanding 
the size of the laboratories and the faculty. It so happens that Carnegie 
Institute of Technology in peace time normally carries a day school enroll
ment of 2300 students. The faculty employed here, the laboratory, and 
dormitory space available are adequate for the proper housing and efficient 
education of just 2300 students. The Faculty has always believed that 
over crowded classrooms and labs are not conducive to either efficient or 
adequate instruction. When operating at maximum efficiency CIT never 
admits more than 350 students in the freshman engineering class. When 
the February class arrives on campus we will already have 100 more men 
enrolled in the Frshman Engineering class than we ever did in peace time 
and there are more to come in June. The school is, then already expanding 
its enrollment somewhat. You might wonder why we cannot temporarily 
take more extra frosh while the upperclasses are so depleted. But at least 
700 former CIT students to whom the Administration gives priority over 
totally new enrolees are expected back by September to swell the ranks 
of the Sophomore, Junior and Senior Classes. The administration does not 
wish to expand to the point where we will become nothing but a sheepskin 
factory. Its problems are comparable to those of institutions of learning 
all over the country.
Is there then no solution to the problem? Must the vets be denied the 
education they have been promised? At present we see no entirely satis
factory solution to the difficuliesbu we do believe that with understand
ing the government and the colleges will be able to work out some system 
whereby the vets can get the learning guaranteed them in the GI Bill.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
Letter To The Editor
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh IS, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
MPMMNTED POM NATIONAL ADVKHTISINO BY
National Advertising Service, Inc. After office Hours Cal1
College Publishers Representative Editor-in-chief ............................SC. 6519
420 Madison avk. new York. n. y. Business Manager.....................EM. 9424
Chicago * bo*toh C hic aggolcs * Sam Fmhcisco 
Entered as second-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscriptien Price $1.10 per year.
Editor ... .................................................................................................................. Clara Herron
Business Manager ......................................................................................... Harold Gottesman
Managing Editor ................................................................................................... Augie Binder
News Editor ............................................................................................... Mary Jane Horridge
Assistant Managing Editor ......................................................................................... Boo Girts
Assistant News Editor ....................................................................................... Ben Schwartz
Sports Editor........................................................................................................Don Clendennen
Copy Editor .............................................................................................................. Bob Teasdale
Having seen women the world 
over, a veteran returning to the 
United States, and to college, can 
usually be counted upcn for defin
ite views concerning the fair sex. He 
knows what he wants to see when 
he looks at a girl, and what he 
doesnt want to see. James Marr, an 
infantry veteran of the European 
campaign, had this to say about the 
coeds at Tech.
After being away from college 
for a number of years, it is definitely 
astonishing, and at the same time, 
disgusting to return and be con
fronted with the present style in 
dress of the college coed. When I left 
college to enter the Army, women 
dressed as women.
Today, things are much different. 
It is possible to see almost any com
bination of clothes on the campus. 
One of the favorite styles seems to 
be the wearing of a pair of torn, 
grease - spattered, paintsmeared 
jeans and a cast-off mans shirt in 
the same condition. It is the usual 
practice of the wearer of these ar
ticles to roll the legs of the jeans 
up to somewhere between the ankle 
and the knee (never evenly), and 
to have the tail of the shirt flap
ping in the breeze. Most of these 
clothes are in such poor condition 
that even a self-respecting laborer 
wouldnt be seen in public dressed 
in them. Yet the supposedly intelli
gent coed here at Tech wears them 
to class and to the cafeteria.
Do these girls realize what the 
average veteran thinks of this 
change that took place while he was 
away? If not, let them watch his 
face when he sees a coed in jeans 
and a shirt. His expression is one of 
disbelief as if his eyes had failed 
him. His countenance shows amaze
ment that anyone can dress so slop
pily when better means are at hand. 
After working the whole thing over 
in his mind, he comes to this con
clusion: She looks terrible!
We leave the dress angle now 
and listen to what Vincent J. Catullo, an Air Force veteran from the 
Aleutians (where women are non
existent) has to say about Techs 
lovely (?) coeds.
As a veteran of this war I have 
seen many things, some strange, 
some curious, and some revolting. 
But one sight that seems to combine 
all three of these phases is the cig
arette-smoking girls' that one en
counters everywhere on the Tech 
campus: in the school halls, around 
the walks, and in Skibo. They are 
truely a strange sightand a revolt
ing one at that. I would hardly both
er criticizing them were it not for 
the fact that quite a large number 
of men on the campus also agree on 
this point, and feel someone ought 
to bring to the girls attention that 
they create an impression that can 
hardly be called flattering to them.
Do these girls puffing away on 
their fags think that they are be
ing sophisticated, or that they are 
products of an enlightened civiliza
tion? If they could hear the remarks 
that are made about them by the 
fellows, they might be inclined to 
think twice about their smoking 
habits. A fellow who has seen the 
war at first-hand isnt easily im
pressed by an immature girl trying 
to be mannish. Why stick to cig
arettes, girls? Why not light up a 
corn-cob pipe and be done with it? 
The final effect in both cases is as
suredly the samea tremendous dis
traction from your greatest asset 
your femininity. This is something 
you may not be able to laugh off so 
easily. As a fellow veteran put it, 
I didnt think I was fighting for this 
type of womanhood. I can well 
realize what meaning lies behind 
his words. I myself have seen Es
kimo women smoking mens pipes 
with more finesse than the Tech 
coeds show when they smoke cig
arettes.
You may consider all this as so 
much rubbish, girls. Thats your 
privilege. But if you want to take 
a poll, youll find that between two 
intelligent, beautiful girls, a fellow 
will choose the one who doesnt 
smoke. Of course you may be the 
type that has no use for menor 
men for you.
Sincerely,
V. J. Catullo 
J. L. Marr
Student Employment
The Student Employment Office 
likes to keep a complete record of 
the jobs obtained through the Of
fice. To this end, Mrs. Kreigline re
quests that all students report at 
the end of each month complete in
formation on part-time employ
ment. This information is helpful in 
estimating possibilities of future job 
placement, and also in keeping the 
office informed as to the type of 
jobs most often open. If you report 
regularly at the end of each month, 
you will be helping not only your
selves, but also the students in later 
classes who may wish to take ad
vantage of our employment office.
If you are interested in working 
for a room, or room and board, 
please contact Mrs. Kreigline. If you 
know any new students registering 
in February, you might mention to 
them our employment office and the 
help we offer students in finding 
part-time work.
Anyone interested in registering 
as a blood donor should contact Mrs. 
Kreigline, Room 155-A Industries 
Hall. Students will be compensated 
for all donations.
Requirements Relaxed 
For Entering Class
The only change in the entrance 
requirement for Engineers is the re
moval of the Foreign Language re
quirement. In the past, two units of 
a Foreign Language have been re
quired, but now these two units 
have been added to the elective sub
ject requirements; and, as stated, 
language is no longer a necessity.
Including this change, the en
trance requirements are as follows: 
a total of 15 units to includeEng
lish, 4 units; Algebra, IVz units; 
Plane Geometry, 1 unit; Solid Ge
ometry, V2 units; Physics, 1 unit; 
Chemistry, 1 unit; and Elective 
Subjects, 6 units.
It is also planned in the future to 
include, Trigonometry, V2 unit; and 
Algebra, an extra Vz unit, making a 
total Algebra requirement of 2 units. 
In doing this, the elective require
ments would be reduced to 5 units.
C. S. EDMAN
Printer
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0183

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1946THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Physics Department 
Takes Army Contract 
For Special Project
The Physics Department of Car
negie Tech has a new contract with 
Army Ordinance to investigate the 
fundamental principles involved in 
the peculiar behavior of explosive 
charges, which in special shapes can 
penetrate large thicknesses of steel 
or concrete.
This project is an expansion of 
the wartime contract carried out by 
the department to provide defense 
against shaped charges. The suc
cessful completion of former work 
was due to the cooperative efforts of 
the individuals, faculty members, 
and graduate students employed on 
the project. Doctors T. L. Smith, W. 
H. Bessey, and A. G. Strandhagen 
worked part-time on this project. 
Graduate students deserving special 
mention are G. H. Winslow, Robert 
J. Eichelberger, Robert Lew, Ed
ward L. Fireman, Robert Vaughn, 
Heine-Geldern, Frank Kralosky 
and Alfred Owyang.
The purpose of the new project 
is the continuation and expansion 
of the earlier work on fundamental 
principles.
The wartime project was carried 
out chiefly in the explosion cham
ber and research room built for the 
purpose on the north corner of the 
campus. From this room issued the 
explosive noises heard for several 
months. Since the Bureau of Mines 
station at Bruceton, Pa. now has 
space and facilities available, the 
explosive work on this peacetime 
project will be done on a coopera
tive basis at Bruceton, while Tech 
will continue to aid in the develop
ment of fundamental principles.
Head of Printing Dept 
Gives Talk in Baltimore
Professor Seigfried, head of the 
printing department, has just re
turned from a three-day trip to Bal
timore where he lectured before two 
professional groups. His subject for 
both lectures was College Training 
for Printers.
He gave his first address Tues
day evening, January 8, at the Hotel 
Stafford before a group of 200 men. 
Included in the audience were mem
bers of the Baltimore Club of Print
ing House Craftsmen, the graduat
ing class of Mergenthaler High 
School for printers, several officials 
of the citys educational system, and 
the mayor of Baltimore.
On Wednesday, January 9, he ad
dressed the members of the Graphic 
Arts Association of Baltimore. The 
officials of all the larger printing 
firms in that city are members of 
this organization.
MANAGEMENT of ones per
sonal finances sometimes calls 
for judicious borrowing of funds. 
Loans on collateral security may 
be arranged in consultation with 
one of the Bank's officers.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER federal deposit insurance corporation
MEBR fedrR
fral aRpoRs lita 
BEEN WEARING 
fcOVS CUOTHES, ^oT.
***** btls SmFS beaoiNaiHmKrj
neufsc vBus 
will secofflg 
INTTSKrE*w m<*MiS
A NV KINO Of FLCJM - COtOfcL 
sfEaneNv ntt BiND
pfcd&e*' ufcais
revival of wuneR
BAND WHJL 6NABUL 
^ OS EU TO GET WZX
ft SCARCITY 
OF MATERIAL 
fEu nNEp
TUMI
Captain H. E. Stassen 
To Speak in Pittsburgh
Capt. Harold E. Stassen, former 
governor of Minnesota and during 
the war an aide to Admiral Halsey, 
is coming to Pittsburgh on January 
21st to speak at a public meeting 
sponsored by the Allegheny County 
League of Women Voters in Syria 
Mosque.
His subject, to be given at 8:30 P. 
M., will be Must We Have Indus
trial Warfare?
One of the youngest governors 
ever elected in the United States, 
Governor Stassen made an enviable 
record, directing the relations of la
bor and management and other do
mestic affairs with such good judg
ment that his administration cap
tured the nations imagination and 
became a model of executive skill 
and good government.
Resigning to enter the Navy, Capt. 
Stassen was with Admiral Halsey 
through the war in the Pacific and 
at the Tokyo surrender. Returning 
to the United States he took an ac
tive and distinguished part in the 
San Francisco Conference, with con
fidence that the nations of the world 
must and can now establish a global 
government and avoid another war.
All seats in Syria Mosque, with 
the exception of the second balcony, 
are reserved. Seats on the first floor 
and the first five rows in the first 
balcony are $1.50; $1.00 for the rest 
of the first balcony and 50 cents in 
the second balcony.
IRC Sponsors Assembly, 
Holds Indian Discussion
At the regular Wednesday meet
ing, of the IRC, at 4:00 in Margaret 
Morrison, a discussion of the Indian 
situation will be held. The chairman 
of the meeting will be Mr. Lin Hou, 
who is a graduate student here. 
Some of the Indian students will 
probably be present to lead the dis
cussion.
Last Tuesday the IRC sponsored 
a very successful assembly, at which 
Mrs. Denise Close, a French Wave 
was the speaker. She spoke of the 
situation in France, her main points 
being that France is still a democ
racy, and that France is in dire need 
of help from other countries in 
starting up production again.
Men Outnumber Girls 
At Last Stag Dance
The stag dance, held in Thistle 
Hall after the big W & J game (big 
victory! !) last Friday night, Janu
ary 12, was a great success. There 
were an unequal number of boys 
and girlsthe girls being grossly 
outnumbered, (hubba-hubba). 
Many of the W & J boys came to 
the dance and helped make it a 
great success.
These dances have progressed fav
orably since their start two months 
ago and more and more of the Techites have come to join in the fun.
The music, provided by the juke
box, gave enjoyment and pleasure 
to both smooth dancers and jitter
bugs and the refreshments served 
in the Black Cat by APO were a 
welcome addition.
Carnegie Tech Profs.
Receive Recognition
Carnegie Tech is privileged to 
have among the members of the fac
ulty many men and women who are 
leaders in their respective fieldsf 
who are now working on commit
tees, writing books and magazine 
articles, and conducting lecture 
tours.
Dr. Max Schoen recently contrib
uted chapters to two books publish
ed by the Philosophical Library. 
The articles are titled Aesthetic 
Theory in the Light of Current Psy
chology and The Psychology of 
Art.
Professor Warren McCabe, head 
of the department of chemical en
gineering, has been elected a direc
tor of the American Institute of 
Chemical Engineers.
Mr. Edward Saibel, associate pro
fessor of mechanics, has received a 
Fellowship in the New York Acad
emy of Science.
Two Russian Nocturnes for Or
chestra by Nicolai Lopatnikor, as
sistant professor of composition in 
the department of music, was broad
cast on the Invitation to Music 
program last Wednesday.
KINGS BARBER SHOP
For A Good Haircut 
Woodlawn Apartment Building
Buffalo Radio Station 
Proclaims Dr. Schoen 
4Most Ideal Husband
At ten oclock on January 9, 1946, 
Dr. Schoen was presented a felt 
orchid in an impressive ceremony. 
Since he had been proclaimed the 
most ideal husband by a radio 
broadcast from Buffalo, the Tech 
students decided to honor Dr. Schoen 
here. He qualified for this dintinctive title because he prepared his 
own breakfast, talked to his wife 
in the mornings, and was very agree
able. Very few husbands could hope 
to equal that standard!
Dr. Schoen thanked Iris Kwall and 
her committee for the acknowledg
ment and commented, My wife was 
very surprised when the statement 
came over the radio, for she did not 
realize that I was the most ideal 
husband. He admitted that he can 
cook oatmeal and that he spent eight 
weeks in Vermont, cooking his own 
meals, and keeping a food budget. 
At the end of eight weeks his gro
cery bill amounted to only eleven 
dollars. Very few housewives could 
hope to equal that standard!
At the end of the class period, Dr. 
Schoen was still wearing the orchid, 
a token of honor, on his lapel. It 
looked very striking on his grey 
suit. He has set a precedent in rules 
for husbands so perhaps he will also 
set a new vogue in styles.
Basketball Star Kohn 
Receives Bronze Star
Stanley J. Kohn, former corporal 
in the 359th Field Artillery, has just 
been awarded the Bronze Star 
Medal by direction of the President. 
The medal is for meritorious serv
ice in connection with military op
erations against an enemy of the 
United States.
During the period from Decem
ber 3rd to December 8th, 1944, while 
his battalion was conducting an at
tack on Saarlautern, Corporal Kohn 
performed his duty as Radio Opera
tor with outstanding skill and cour
age. Carrying his radio on his back, 
he advanced in the face of heavy 
enemy fire in order to maintain com
munications between artillery and 
infantry.
Stan is now a junior at C. I. T. in 
the civil engineering department. 
He is well-known to Tech basketball 
fans because of his position on the 
team.
flr dEsflENEBrD
pifalEN flr
CAMPUS
THE WORLDS MOST HONORED WATCH
bINNER mF 10 
bmRhDS FaIR 
GRaND PRIZES,
28 GmhD sEDahS 
aND smRE HmNmRS 
FmR aCCURaCY lHaN 
aNY mlHER lIsEPIECE

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1946
Two of the Girls
Shes tall, shes dark, she looks 
and acts like a dramat but isnt one 
that is how one usually starts out 
with a One of the Girls; but it 
doesnt seem to complete the pic
ture you should get of Adeline HerAdeline Herlick
lick. But you know her, so why do 
I worry? Lets just say presenting 
the editor!
Printers ink seems to run in her 
veins. If it isnt her first love, the 
Tartan, then its the Scottie, or any 
other publication desiring a little 
lend lease advice. Since her fresh
man year, she has been a member 
of the Tartan staff, and as editor of 
the same, during 1944-45 brought 
the student gripes into print with 
explosive force. (Oh, how we re
member that dorm curfew editorial. 
Ad recalls it as the only time she 
was really frightened o possible 
consequences!) She is now tapering 
out her journalistic career at Tech 
as Managing Editor of the Scottie. 
Needless to say shes a member of 
Pi Delta Epsilon, national journalis
tic honorary; in fact, shes vice pres
ident.
But let me dispel any idea that 
journalism is an end in itself fpr 
Ad; she is interested in EVERY 
phase of campus life. In the past se
mester she attained fame as mistress 
of ceremonies at Freshman Fun 
Night and as the greater half of a 
peach of a pair. Last semester she 
was instrumental in re-establishing 
the student faculty committee, and 
has never stopped working to revive 
Tech traditions. Ad considers pub
lications as the life blood which 
keeps Tech alive.
The first thing I can remember 
about Ad is that she was continu
ally bemoaning the fact that Tech 
was going to the dogs socially; so it 
made me feel good to hear that she 
is impressed with the freshman 
class and sees in their hands the re
vival of Dear Old Tech. However, 
she feels that there is not sufficient 
outlet for the excess spirit and en
ergy that seems to be abroad. (Is 
she kidding?)
Surveying her college career, 
Ad feels she has achieved all the 
goals she set for herself plus. One 
thing still puzzles her, however. For 
seven months during her freshman 
year, she worked on the Tartan, 
handing in at least a story a week 
and she netted exactly one inch in 
print. On the eighth month she was
Adelina Herlick and Jean Garland
made junior editor! She is still won
dering how it happened!
Her plans after graduation in
clude everything from finding a man 
to making five thousand dollars (or 
should we interchange those ger
unds?) The reason for the former is 
self-evident, but the latter needs ex
planation. The theater has always 
held a big spot in her life, as have 
C. I. T. dramats, so after Ad 
makes her first five grand, shed like 
to establish a press agent and book
ing office service, catering solely to 
C. I. T. dramats.
Her hobbies include watching 
Ruth Guberman and meeting peo
ple. She was born, reared, and is 
content to die in Ebony City  in 
other words she likes the place.* She 
has interviewed such celebrities as 
Boris Karloff, Duke Ellington, and 
Frank Sinatra. She revels in recall
ing her freshman days and gets 
quite a charge out of her latest nick. name  Alkaline Hairlip  which 
was invented and promoted by 
Guby & Stine, Inc.
In concluding I think it is only 
fair to give with the Eds latest re
form list:
1) Skibo Coffee Shop should be 
made into a lounge similar to the 
Canteen.
2) Prices in Skibo should be low
ered.
3) An omnipotent Executive 
Board of Approval composed of one 
member of the Administration, one 
member of the faculty and one 
member of the student body should 
decide on issues on which no deci
sion can be reached by student 
groups, or by students and admin
istration.
4) Student Council should estab
lish a better clearing house for so
cial events.
5) Student council should sponsor 
an open house every Friday and 
Saturday since many boys havent 
enough money to date in town every 
week.
A thing of beauty is a joy for
ever seems to have been written for 
Jean Garland. Her beauty not only 
consists of her outward appearance 
of long, dark, wavy hair, beautiful 
smile, and laughing eyes; but also
Jean Garland
of her bounding, amiable personal
ity which makes her a joy among all 
-Techites. She has the friendliest ap
proach for everyone she meets and 
is sure to become their lasting and 
confidential friend. As part of her 
make-up, she has a nice word to say 
to everyone and about everyone. 
Very few of us can say we have no 
dislikes, and yet Jean, alias 
Boomie, is among the exceptional 
who has only one dislike and that is 
the unnatural, affected person. 
Among her favorite pastimes is tak
ing long walks; lying in front of a 
open-fire place, reading, and eating 
apples; playing the piano and the 
clarinet. She felt she must have a 
passion for something in order to be 
one of the girls, and so she settled 
for developing one for chocolate ice 
cream. Her crusade started this aft
ernoon in the Beanery. But Jean 
does not need any passion for ice 
cream to make her past twenty 
years seem filled with excitement; 
for even though she is too modest 
to tell her accomplishments, they 
speak for themselves.
Jean is one girl who surprises 
you more everytime you see her.
Probably very few of her friends 
know of her great talent, and yet it 
should be broadcast to all that she 
is The Voice. She can pitch her 
voice so that she sounds like Fred
die, the Frog, and after hearing her 
once you will be ready to finance 
her to fame with her vocal rendi
tions of the latest songs. (Ask her to 
perform for youbut expect to go to 
the hospital to get some stitches, 
you will laugh so much.) Also 
among her accomplishments is her 
shooting ability. She won the Na
tional Rifle Championship in the 
United States in her last year of 
high school and has carried home 27 
medals with her gun. She likes to 
go hunting so men look out! You 
cant win when Jean is on the loose 
with her gun! By the way, she has 
only two requisites for her favorite 
man, and that is he should be con
siderate of others and have a sense 
of humour. Her accomplishments at 
school during her first three years 
included Cwens, Junior Class Pres
ident, A.C.A.C., Treasurer of Delta 
Gamma, one of the members of the 
Bond Queens Court; and this year 
she has completed her school activi
ties by being a member of Mortar 
Board, Phi Kappa Phi, and president 
of Delta Gamma.
She is making her college life a 
well-rounded one by living in the 
dorm this year. She agrees that 
everyone should live in the dorm at 
least a semester even if they dont 
get any sleep or any work done. She 
likes getting to know people in the 
dorm, and the fun they have form
ing new clubs like the Hubba Hubba 
Club.
When she graduates from Tech 
this June, she will have had a great 
deal of secretarial experience for 
she has worked every summer for 
three years at Carngie Illinois. Al
though working there all this time, 
may seem dull, many exciting things 
took place in her office where the 
workers deferments were handled. 
Jean is certainly one person every
one at Tech will miss next fall, but 
as a secretary or as a teacher, her 
boss or her pupils are bound to be 
well-satisfied with our lovable Jean.
BEffurD oNDrB ioflEBeft EM flr aEai-aEui aEdPiNt Bt
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1946THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5? INTER-FRATERNITY DANCE *
Beta Sigs at Intermission
Since this marks the last Tartan 
issue of the current semester, we 
dedicate this column to the few sen
iors who have survived the horrors 
of eight semesters. May they never 
again have to work quite so hard, 
and may they not laugh too heartily 
at the poor unfortunates that they 
leave behind.
In a more or less final fling before 
finals, the Techites celebrated this 
past week at the IF dance, frater
nity breakfasts, the basketball 
game, and the stag dance.
Norma Stull at the IF sans Whitmoyer . . . Dale Wright beat Dave 
Fleck in asking Peg Dunlap to IF 
. . . How did Sid Berkowitz manage 
to get two sundaes at the frat ban
quet last Sunday? . . . The Mens 
Glee Club is still looking frantically 
for the owner of the empty skirt 
found in the room at last Mondays 
rehearsal . . . Techs newest mar
ried couple: Betty and Abell from 
Colombia . . . Were glad to hear 
that Ensign Earl Lewis is now in 
Oregon after spending several 
months in Hawaii ... a news item 
which made a certain birthday quite 
happy . . .
The Cheerleaders knockin them
selves out at Saturdays game . . . 
Jeanne Boltey and Abe Hopper hav
ing a little less trouble with carbombs Frdiay . . . Vic Glass seemed 
to have some woman trouble after 
the dance . . . John Mundie with 
his pinned-to girl from Buffalo . . .
Trials of a Fem Engineer: Betsy 
Eunson being stopped at the en
Delts Harmonize
trance to the Mens Room last Tues
day on the AIEE trip ... all the 
while protesting that she was just 
following the crowd . . . Ric Saxton 
already trying to get rid of his new
ly-acquired frat pin . . . Bennard 
Perlman and Goldie seen Saturday 
night? . . . What Pi KA thinks that 
Vernon Drive is too far from Morewood Place (We think so too) ? . . . 
Our man George Pake finally break
ing down and becoming engaged 
... It seems that everyone is miss
ing the rushing around that Max 
did before leaving the basketball 
team ... It was becoming quite a 
commonplace statement to say that 
the Hannum is quicker than the
eye . . .
Bea Gibson and Dave Berry seem
ed the only ones welcome at the 
Boot and Saddle Friday night. 
Could be they cater only to steady 
customers . . . Were happy to hear 
(he is too) that Don Yochums wife 
is out of the hospital . . . Harry 
Ransom seemed quite pleased with 
the chicken given him by the 
pledges (the eating kind?) . . . 
Walt MacPherson and Helen McVicker an engaging couple . . . 
The Frenchmen seen at Mount 
Mercy last Sunday . . . According 
to the night-watchman, Bob Ayers 
returned to the campus at six A. M. 
Friday, after taking Rosemary Lang
home. Must have been a long walk 
. . . Rolf Weil still dating Pitt wom
en, this time Zelda Kernis . . .
. . . Very tough break about Gottesman having to leave school a 
month before graduation . . . Bob 
Grahams frat pin seen on Janie 
Marshall . . . Del Damrau engaged 
to Pete Reichard . . . Everyone 
missed Roy Griffiths after-dinner 
music after breakfast . . . The 
PiKAs seem to think that every man 
must have a sweet sweetheart 
. . . There seems to be a definite 
correlation between Celestes Span
ish grades and the language spoken 
in Bogota . . . Ask Marie and Gerry 
why some W & J men are returning 
to Pittsburgh this weekend . . . 
Who was the most surprised person 
at the P & D surprise party? Steve, 
of course . . . Jerry Bell still pining 
for Sally . . . Mimi Pearl leaving 
school for matrimonial reasons. 
Some people will go to any lengths 
to get out of final exams . . . Peggy 
Kidwell and Fred Franks playing 
chopsticks at the Delt house . . . 
Bridge game of the week: Dick and 
Mimi with Kelly and Janet . . . 
Red Cooper visiting Tech, has 
eyes for none other than Alice Skirpanor is it someone else?
Service men, seen around about: 
Buddy Yorkin, Sherm Cohen, Dick 
Landman, and Murph Freedman 
. . . Pat Delehaunty and Marion 
Costa spent a Christmas vacation at 
home . . . Doris and Ross Hallas 
made a recent Pittsburgh visit . . . 
Ah, Im tired!

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TAfcANTUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1946
Tartan Swimmers Tartan Squad In Action Tartans Humble
Drop First 59-16
Coach Allen Risedorphs inex
perienced mermen dropped their 
opening meet Saturday afternoon to 
a veteran squad from Oberlin Col
lege 59-16. The Tartans were behind 
from the first event which the Ober
lin Medley team won without much 
trouble. In the 220 yard freestyle 
A1 Macyauskas, who proved to be 
Techs outstanding performer for the 
day, took a second. A1 later demon
strated his endurance by copping 
the 440 yard freestyle number by 
almost two lengths. Oberlin went 
on to capture the one, two spots in 
50 and 100 yard freestyle events to 
practically ice the meet for the 
visitors. Laqueruella and Haberstroh 
of Tech took respective thirds in 
these two events.
Zukaski Takes Second
In the fancy diving it was the 
opinion of the majority of the handfull of Tartan rooters that Tony Zu
kaski was given a raw deal. Tony, 
however copped a second, while 
Robertson of Oberlin was taking the 
top honors. The visitors continued 
their pace after the diving was com
pleted and place first and second 
in the 150 yard backstroke and the 
200 yard breaststroke. Bob Straka 
edged out Vincent Benya in the 
breaststroke number for a third 
while Dunbar was adding another 
point to Techs lost cause by splash
ing home third in the backstroke 
event.
Tech Takes Only First
The 440 yard freestyle was the on
ly event of the meet in which Ober
lin was outclassed. As A1 Macy was 
copping an easy first Pete Bertelson was churning the waters at an 
even pace to register a third. This 
was the only event in which the Tar
tans outscored the visitors. Tech was 
no match for Oberlins expert freestylers in the 400 yard relay, which 
was the final event on slate for the 
afternoon.
Tech Puts Up Fight
Approximately 50 Tech rooters 
were on hand to lend their support. 
Coach Risedorphs boys turned in a 
very creditable performance consid
ering that it was their baptism un
der fire and also they were up 
against seasoned competition. (Six
ty per cent of Oberlins squad were 
still in uniform being Navy and Ma
rine trainees.) His swimmers will 
not be discouraged by this initial 
setback but they will improve 
greatly and as the Coach had said, 
Well be in there trying all the 
time.
Summary:
300 Yard MedleyWon by Ober
lin (Burkett, Heins, Alford.) Time 
3:33.2.
200 Yard FreestyleWon by Brad
shaw (O) Macyauskas (T) second; 
Stewart (O) third. Time 2:38.2.
50 Yard DashWon by Palubinskas (O); Thom (O) second; Lagueruella (T) third. Time: 26.3.
Fancy divingWon by Robertson 
(O); Zukaski (T) second; Daeshler 
(O) third.
150 Yard backstroke  Won by 
Mohr (O); Boyd (O) second; Dun
bar (T) third. Time 2:10.3.
200 Yard Breaststroke  Won by 
Heins (O); Rasch (O) second; Stra
ka (T) third. Time 2:52.1.
440 Yard FreestyleWon by Ma
cyauskas (T)Stewart (O) second; 
Benya (T) Third. Time 6:10.7.
continued on page 7
Panthers Drub Skibos 56-45 
In Wild Battle at Stadium
There are just two reasons why 
those Techites who witnessed the 
sad debacle at the Pitt Stadium last 
Wednesday came home with their 
mugs drooping. First, Tech was no
ticeably off. It was the first big 
crowd the Tartans have played in 
front of this season and that, to
gether with the fact that the pres
sure was really on, had the Skibos 
up in the air. Secondly, Pitt has a 
good ball club! Put em all together 
and you have Pitt 56, Tech 45.
That Tech was nervous was evi
dent after a few minutes of the first 
period. Pitt got away to an early 
lead as Zeller and Maruzowski tap
ped in rebounds. Tech was continu
ally throwing the ball away, and 
when the refs called a few ques
tionable fouls on them, decided to 
go after Pitt men instead of playing 
basketball. Prize of the Tartans ob
vious fouls was Lew Heiles bear 
hug of Zeller. By this time Pitt was 
ahead 10-3 and Tech decided that 
the time had some. Kuzma started 
the ball rolling by tapping home a 
rebound and Gene Hannum follow
ed with two successive set shots to 
bring the visitors back into the 
game. Pitt then ran up six points 
in a row before Hannum broke in 
to swish another and end the quar
ter 16-11, Pitt.
Marty Chetlin made it 16-13 as 
he popped one through from the 
corner, but then came the storm. 
Carlsons proteges started pouring 
them through so fast the cords of 
the basket started steaming. At the 
end of the rampage, the Pitt side of
the score board had spun around to 
37 while Tech had to be content 
with 16.
With the issue thus decided, the 
pressure was off the Tartans and 
they started playing ball in the sec
ond half. They outscored Pitt 8-4 
in the third stanza, mostly on foul 
throws by Hannum and Kuzma. It 
was during this time that Stan Kohn 
pulled the play of the game. The ball 
was rolling loose near the Tech 
bucket, and Stan decided to get it. 
He wound up skidding along the 
floor on his you-know-what, when 
he grabbed the sphere, and tossed it 
to Harmuth from a prone position. 
Joe turned it into a two-pointer.
Doc Carlson decided the situation 
was well enough in hand to put his 
second team in to start the fourth 
period. The Tartans made short 
work of them, however, and brought 
the score from 41-24 to 43-34 in a 
hurry. Then the first team returned 
and the two clubs battled on even 
terms to the finish and the final 
score of 56-45.
Gene Hannum upset the dopesters who figured Pitt would stop 
him cold by garnering 18 points. 
Paul Kuzma was next in line for 
scoring honors with 12 tallies. Line
ups:
CarnegieGFTPittGFTHannum, 6618Apple, f226Harmuth, f306Consentino, f5111Heiles. g102Zeller, c4210Kuzma, c3612Medich, g215Chetlin, g102Maruzowski, g419Butler, g215David, f3410Kohn, g000Nordstrom, f000Dankmeyer,f 000Williams, 00OSupac, c000Stewart, g102Malarky, g113
1613 452212 58
Wash-Jeff 64-44
It happened! For the first time in 
many a moon, the Carnegie fans 
saw their team rack up a double 
win at home. The J.Vs started the 
evening off right last Saturday when 
they took over the Crafton Falcons, 
35-19 for their first win of the year. 
Then the varsity stepped out on the 
floor and walloped Washington and 
Jefferson to the tune of 64-44.
The varsity game was one of the 
wierdest affairs ever seen in these 
parts. Both teams were alternately 
hot and cold, and at the finish Tech 
had only four men on the court. 
Jittery Joe Harmuth put on one of 
the shooting performances of the 
year as he made some impossible 
swishes from close-up. Refusing to 
make the easy ones, Joe invariably 
caught his own rebounds, and after 
all kinds of contortions, managed to 
get it through the hoop. He wound 
up the first half with 16 points 
(more than the whole W. & J. team 
had) and added 4 more in the final 
half.
Tech started like a house afire and 
built up a 10-6 lead, mostly on 5 
points by C. T. Butler. The Prexies 
seemed to like the number 6, for 
they stayed right where they were 
as the home team went on rolling. 
Harmuth banked in one, Kuzma tap
ped in a rebound, and Harmuth again 
found the range with a bucket and 
a foul to give Tech an 18-6 margin 
at the quarter.
Gene Hannum, playing with an in
jured wrist, took up the fight from 
there and dribbled the length of the 
floor to rack up another and drop 
the ensuing free throw. W. and J. 
at this point still had its 6 points 
(they couldnt take that away) and 
the Tartans had 23. Staskiewicz fin
ally got the visitors out of their rut 
by sinking a foul shot, and counter
ing on a pivot toss. It was 26-9 when 
Harmuth broke loose. Joe came up 
with a couple of lulus and some foul 
shots to garner 8 points in the time 
remaining before the first half ended 
with Tech on top 36-13.
The Skibos didnt look like the 
same team in the third quarter as 
the visitors started to click and outscored the locals 12-9 in the third 
stanza. During this time Hannum 
stuck his arm in the way a few times 
too many and got himself ejected 
from the game.
All of which set the stage for the 
wildest period seen in a long long 
time. The ball was going from one 
end to the other it looked like a 
tennis match. All in all the two 
teams heaved 36 points through the 
hoop. After starting slowly, Tech 
put on the show of the age as far 
as quick scoring goes. With the score 
47-31, Lew Heiles intercepted a pass 
and brought the crowd to its feet 
with a shot that would have had 
Hank Luisetti jealous. Techs Dankmeyer tapped in a rebound and the 
Prexies Murtland dropped a pivot 
shot. After this, W. and J. couldnt 
get the ball down the floor. Heiles 
got it time and again, threw it back 
to the Tech end four times in a row 
and the Tartans had eight more 
quick points. By this time, the Ski
bos were far enough ahead so that 
Lew abandoned his usual guard post 
and started playing up front. Coach 
Red Silverman took out his first 
team and sent them to the showers 
at this point. A few moments later, continued on page 8

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1946THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
Intramural 
Roundup
It is the same old story in this 
weeks Intramural Round-up with 
the Delts and Betas still setting the 
pace in the volley ball league and 
the PiKAs dominating the pingpong competition.
Seven teams and five individuals 
have entered the foul shooting com
petition. It is to be held in the girls 
gymnasium with the DUs, Tau 
Delts, Independents, and unattach
ed individuals making their fifty 
throws at five this afternoon. The 
Delts, SAEs, Betas, and PiKAs will 
shoot on Wednesday at the same 
hour. The finals will be played on 
Monday, January 21.
Only the biggest upset of the sea
son can stop the post-season play-off 
between the Delts and the Betas 
from being held this Thursday night 
at 7:30. The Betas have but to beat 
the victory-starved DUs tonight in 
the final game of the season to even 
tfte count with the Delts at seven 
wins against a lone defeat for each 
team.
Last weeks games showed the 
Tau Delts passing the 500 mark by 
grabbing a pair of victories  the 
first one from the DUs 21-14, 21-18, 
and the other from Scwelch 21-10, 
17-21, 21-8. The Delts breezed to a 
21-5, 21-7 win over the Beta Sigs 
and out-fought Scwelch 21-14, 22-
20. The Betas had a lot of trouble 
with the TXs before they finally 
subdued them 13-21, 21-7, 21-9.
Standing of the teams:
Won Lost
Delta Tau Delta..................7 1
Beta Theta Pi......................6 1
Pi Kappa Alpha..................4 3
Tau Delta Phi......................4 3
Sigma Alpha Epsilon.......3 4
Scwech .................................3 5
Theta Xi...............................2 5
Beta Sigma Rho..................2 6
Delta Upsilon ......................1 6
The PiKAs slaughtered the Betas 
to win the American League cham
pionship and a chance to take the 
campus table tennis crown when 
they meet the Beta Sigs today. DiPrima, Herbert, Sterrett, and Fos
ter formed an almost unbeatable 
combination as they set the Betas 
down with hardly a fight.
PiKAs Dick DiPrima established 
himself as the best in ping-pong 
players on Techs campus when he 
beat his fraternity brother Bob Her
bert in the singles final by none-toodecisive score of 17-21, 21-19, 17-21, 
21-19, 21-17. Herbert had reached the 
finals by taking Andy Sterrett 17
21, 21-15, 19-21, 21-18, 21-7, and Di
Prima had made it as the result of 
Ted Caridiss default on doctors or
ders.
Swimming Meet
continued from page 6
500 Yard RelayWon by Oberlin 
(Bradshaw, Thom, Alford,'and Bur
kett.) Time 4:11.3.
Next week the Tartan Natators 
journey to Cleveland to meet Case 
and Oberlin on Friday and Satur
day. The swimming team has quite 
a job cut out for it. Case should be 
a pretty even match for the Tartans 
since they are in the same boat we 
areNo V-12 or marine spirit to be 
the deciding factor.
Tech Sporting Scene
Dick Heckman
Well, another week has rolled 
around and with it another PittTech game. For anyone who has 
been around this campus any length 
of time or for those who remember 
Tech the way it used to be, any ath
letic competition with the folks from 
the tower on the hill has some spe
cial significance. We cant say we 
got a raw deal, and we cant even 
say we werent badly beatenBut 
we can honestly say that we werent 
out fought or overdone when it 
came to spirit. The Tech team really 
waged a battle that anyone will have 
to admit was a true credit to them 
and also to the school as -a whole. 
They deserve a great hand from all 
of us, and frankly I wouldnt be a 
bit surprised to see things the other 
way around when the Pitt stalwarts 
invade our home grounds later in 
the season. The city papers seem to 
have made the assumption that 
Hank Zellers, the star of the Pitt 
team, was not more impressive due 
to a good natured attitude on his 
part and also due to the fact that he 
had decided to rest on his press 
clippings. Maybe Im wrong, and I 
doubt it, but I think that it was 
more due to a fine defensive job put 
up by big Paul Kuzma.
The more we walk around this 
campus and talk to people, the more 
we get the idea that, generally 
speaking, most of us dont know too 
much about the boys who are play
ing that basketball for us. With that 
in mind we would like to begin giv
ing weekly descriptions of them.
As good a place as any to start is 
with C. T. Butler, the Kentucky 
Flash. We know he is a flash, be
cause he told us so himself. He cred
its his fine eye and 1 point average 
to the practice he got shooting tur
keys and revenooers down home. 
Matter of fact, at the tender age of 
12 years he won a turkey shoot by 
blasting the head cleanly off one 
from 150 yds. and that is definitely 
shooting. Our type of ball does con
fuse him a little, though, in so far 
as we wear shoes up here and con
centrate a little morev on the fine 
points of the game.
Another blithe remark from one 
of our athleteswhen Chuck Kavenagh was asked what races he 
was going to swim at the Tech-Oberlin meet, he expounded, Oh, I dont 
enter the races. Im the life-guard.
This week marks the absence of 
the name of Bill Sherb from the 
Tech sporting roster. Bill, with all 
the complications that go with grad
uating, has decided to give up bas
ketball in favor of the books. He 
has been on the varsity for three 
years now and has turned in some 
mighty fine performances. Im sure 
all will join me in wishing Bill all 
the success in the world as he makes 
his start in the biggest game of all.
BOWLING
University
Recreation Alleys
16 Perfect Alleys
AFTERNOON BOWLING 
FOR STUDENTS
407 S. Craig St. MAyflower 2998
Everyone is busy these days  it 
must be those finals which are com
ing up in the not-too-distant future. 
Ah, but in the meantime, the fra
ternities were in the lime-light with 
the I. F. Ball this past week-end.
After the dance Friday night, the 
Beta Sigs had a breakfast in the 
form of spaghetti at Angelos. Fav
ors were given out to the fellows 
and their dates. In short everyone 
had a neat time.
Saturday night was initiation
CWCA and YMCA 
Plan Basketball Game
The Carnegie Womens Christian 
Association and the Tech W.M.C.A. 
are planning a basketball game to 
raise money for the World Students 
Service Fund. This game, which 
will take place on February 20th, 
will be very unusual. The first quar
ter will be played by the Tech var
sity team against a team of fac
ulty members. The second quarter 
will feature a womens student team 
against a womens faculty team. The 
second half will be played by the 
varsity against an all-star team 
made up of one player from each 
fraternity. The score will be contin
uous; this will be one game, not 
three.
The proceeds from this game will 
go to the World Students Service 
Fund, a very worthwhile cause to 
which all schools contribute. In past 
years Carnegie Tech has not given 
as much according to the number 
of students enrolled as many other 
colleges. In order to boost the 
amount given by Tech, a new plan 
of attack has been adopted. This 
basketball game will take the place 
of an all-school tag-day, which had 
been used in previous years.
This will be one of the big events 
of next semester. Watch for it!
time for the Beta Sigs. The new ad
dition to the fraternity line-up are: 
Bill Benswanger, Jim Colker, Chuck 
Freed, Irv Haus, and Bennard Perl
man. (Best wishes fellows).
There were a great many fellows 
from the service at the Beta Break
fast which was held at the Beta 
house Friday night.
Warren Plohr, Harvey Carlson, 
Austin Frank, Warren Dickson, Rick 
Saxton, and Vernon Nubert became 
Beta brothers following the initia
tion Sunday afternoon. (Congratu
lations one and all!)
At their fraternity breakfast Fri
day night,the Tau Delts hacf a sur
prise birthday party for Ben 
Schwartzand they even had a cake 
which was inscribed with these 
words, Happy Birthday Lover.
Besides their breakfast at the fra
ternity house after the dance, the 
DUs have planned one more social 
event before the semester ends. Jan
uary 19 they will hold a Rushing 
dance at the House.
January 24 the Thetas will cele
brate the 76th Founders Day with 
a Banquet at the Pittsburgh Athletic 
Association.
The Theta Xis held initiation this 
week-end and on top of that they 
took time out for a Breakfast after 
the I. F. Jack Seward, Miles Brunt, 
Bill Hibler, Dave Mettleton, Dave 
Wallace, Jack Douglas, Dick Reiter, 
and Anthony Zukaski became TX 
brothers. (Congratulations to you 
too!)
Following the dance Friday night, 
the Delts, the Phi Kappas, the 
SAEs and the Pi KAs served break
fast at their respective fraternity 
houses.
Well have more fraternity news 
in the first issue of the Tartan next 
semester. Good luck and best 
wishes to the graduating seniors 
they made it.
Compliments
of
Winthrop Collins
SCHEINMAN-NEAMAN
Wiping Rags
Clean - Useful - Necessary \ 
1024 Vickroy f ^ n j GRant 1641

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1946
iM Dr .LLLa.n gSrtS
(In which the End Man gets a lot 
of things off that cavity he calls his 
chest and lets himself wide open 
for varied and sundry criticism.)
Once a year, the Harvard Lam
poon lets down its proverbial hair 
and tosses orchids and onions around 
to people in the public eye all of the 
time and in the publics hair most 
of the time. And that is exactly 
what the End Man is going to do 
in this column. The End Man is as 
opinionated as the next person and 
is not asking any of the readers 
(those of you who havent stopped 
reading this column in favor of Mr. 
Heckmans Sporting Scene) to 
agree with him. These are the End 
Mans own opinions and come what 
maythough he be barred from Skibo, kicked out of school, banned 
from all Forbes Street street cars, 
and replaced on Student Council 
hell stick with them. This is his 
Spit Parade.
The End Man nominates Miss 
Gene Tierney as Hollywoods worst 
actress, with Maria Montez and 
Judy Garland running a close sec
ond and third. The End Man further 
classes Zachary Scott, George Raft 
and Don Ameche as the three that 
shouldnt even happen to the Hollywoods. The worst pictures that it 
was our misfortune to see, during 
the past year, were The Southern
er, A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, 
Week-end At The Waldrof, and 
Yolanda and the Thief. Along the 
musical line, The Andrew Sisters 
still make me want to rush to the 
nearest mens room and Mr. Tito 
Guizar and Miss Jeanette MacDon
ald could establish residence in 
Vladivostok and here is one person 
that definitely wouldnt miss either 
of them.
On the other hand, if the End Man 
could give out the Academy Awards, 
Mr. Ray Milland would get at least 
ten of them for his performance in 
The Lost Week-end which helps to 
prove that perhaps Hollywood is 
coming of age. Miss Ingrid Bergman 
would get at least five Awards for 
The Bells of St. Marys.
The End Man sincerely hopes that 
during 1946, Miss Lauren Bacalls 
picture and name will appear less 
and less in newspapers and maga
zines. The End Man hopes that Ros
alind Russell and Robert Montgom
ery will be in some pictures that 
suit their individual talents. The 
End Man hopes that Myrna Loy and 
William Powell make comebacks 
and that everyone forgets about 
Hedy Lamarr and Turhan Bey. The 
End Man would like to see re-issues 
of pictures like Henry the Eighth, 
Marie Antoinette, Anthony Ad
verse, and The Letter. The End 
Man would like to see less and less 
of Danny Kaye and Fred Astaire 
and more and more of Virginia 
OBrien and Joan McCracken. And 
that takes care of the moooooooom 
pictures.
The End Man would like to toss 
a few burps to some writers in gen
eral and Mr. Sinclair Lewis in par
ticular. Cass Timberlane was the 
biggest piece of nonsense weve read 
since The Bobbsey Twinsand at 
least they were slightly clever. 
Seems to us that Mr. Lewis is count
ing on Main Street and Babbitt
to make Cass Timberlane a suc
cess. It is our humble opinion (and 
that sounds like Hannah Esterman) 
that The Folded Leaf by William 
Maxwell and Days and Nights by 
Konstantine Siminov were the two 
best contributions to modern fiction 
and the End Man believes we could 
have done without A Lion is in the 
Streets and that tripe Forever 
Amber. The best non-fiction accord
ing to us can be found in Life of the 
Heart by Winmar and in Lovely 
is the Lee by Gibbings. Two new 
books that I have really enjoyed are 
the cartoons of Abner Dean collect
ed in a book called Its A Long Way 
To Heaven and The Zebra Derby, 
by Max Shulman, who wrote Bare
foot Boy With Cheek and The 
Feather Merchants. The best bi
ography Ive read was My Way
ward Parent, by Irvin S. Cobbs 
daughter and the best love story Ive 
read is The Peacock Sheds His 
Tail. And that takes care of books.
The End Man and Mr. Marconis 
miscarriage are not that way any
more. During the past few years, 
the radio has become one of his pet 
peeves. When will radio people learn 
that you cant sell a product by 
L.S.M.F.T.-ing and Chiquita Banana-ing. The End Man realizes 
that commercials are necessary but 
will turn off any program that re
peats one phrase over and over until 
the poor listener borders on harikari. With the exception of Vic and 
Sade and Easy Acesall of the 
soap operas make the End Man vi
olently ill. Mr. Jack Benny should 
get some new material and Dr. IQ 
and Truth or Consequences should 
both seriously consider the Foreign 
Legion. The Hit Parade is putrid 
and Duffys Tavern is getting tire
some. On the other hand, the End 
Man likes Information Please, 
Theatre Guild on the Air, and 
One Mans Family. And another 
thing, why do all the really good 
orchestras come on the air when 
everyone is getting ready for bed? 
And still another thing, that Pitts
burgh announcer who is forever 
wishing me a Jolly Gimbels Good 
Morning should live BUT so long.
As far as the End Man is con
cerned, Mr. Guy Lombardo and his 
orchestra would be better in a freak 
show and Spike Jones and his band 
should try and get into Tobacco 
Road. And where is Artie Shaw? 
A lot of people would like to hear 
him a lot more than a lot of these 
so-called name bands that the air 
waves has a lot of these days. 
(Lot is the first word we learned 
:o type.) The End Man wishes that 
Andy Russell, Frank Sinatra and 
Perry Como would either sing or 
not sing. I cant stand this whisper
ing and moaning. And the End Man 
wishes that Hildegarde would sing 
The Last Time I Saw Paris and 
stop at thatalso that Hildegarde 
would stop making funnys. The 
most insipid songs of last year were 
that foolish Rum and Cocoa Cola, 
Chickery Chick, and Hubba Hubba. The songs I liked most last year 
were If I Loved You, How Little 
We Know, and the re-issues of Am 
I Blue? and Memphis in June. 
Note to Victor, Decca and Colum
bia: What about an album of Hoagy 
Carmichael?
Closing up Shop Department: 
Were going to close this gripes in 
general gab-fest before we start 
sounding like Florence Fisher Parry, 
but we do want to remind you to 
see As You Like It at the Little 
Theatre until the twenty-third. See 
you next weekor as Judy Lambert 
says: Better that than your eyes 
should fall out.
W. & J. Basketball
continued from page 6 
Stan Kohn went out on fouls and 
Joe Harmuth came in. Joe went 
back out in a hurry as he got caught 
with his fifth foul. Now Silverman 
was sitting all by his lonesome on 
the bench, and decided that with 
such a short time remaining, Tech 
would finish with just four men.
Sidelights on the Games Marty 
Chetlin, like Hannum was playing 
with a bad wrist.
All in all, W. and J. had 37 free 
throws, 13 of which came in the last 
period. Tech had 23 charity tosses, 
for a game total of 60. (Wow!) It is 
interesting to note Heiles wasnt 
among them. Lew played a different 
type of ball from what he has been 
playing, being content to let the 
other guy do the fighting over the 
sphere.
The Hannum family was unusu
ally well-represented. Max was in 
the stands, Gene was in the varsity 
game and Maxs youngest played 
the full game for the Crafton team 
in the prelim. Lineup:
CarnegieGFTW. and J.GFT
Hannum, 237Anastas, f21S
Harmuth, 84 20Murtland, f135
Kuzma, c408Hulings, 135
Butler, g419Margolis, f000
Heiles, g317Plocki, 000
Morley, f000Staskiewicz, c7519
Carlson, c000Lemmer, g102
Dankmeyer, f317Clark, g248
Kohn, g102
Chetlin, g124
Four Branches of AIEE 
Hold Technical Session
Last Tuesday, January 8, the stu
dent branches of the American In
stitute of Electrical Engineers from 
Carnegie Tech, Pitt, West Virginia, 
and Penn State held their annual 
Technical session.
The morning was taken up by a 
trip to one of the power stations of 
the Duquesne Light-West Penn 
Power system. In the afternoon the 
scene of the meeting was the Em
pire Room of the Fort Pitt Hotel, 
where speakers from the four 
schools presented papers on tech
nical subjects. The speaker repre
senting Carnegie Tech was Arnold 
Horelick, electrical engineering jun
ior, who spoke on Bomber Com
munication and Navigation by Ra
dio. Mr. Horelick was a member 
of the Eighth Air Force in England, 
and the material for his speech was 
gathered by personal experience.
Following the presentation of 
these papers, the annual presidentsday banquet was served in the din
ing room.
Professors Hold Meeting
On January 10, the Carnegie 
Chapter of the American Associa
tion of University Professors held 
a meeting to discuss veterans on the 
campus. Dr. Work and Dr. Minor, 
both of the Veterans Administra
tion here at CIT, spoke to the group.
The meeting was to give the attending professors information 
about the veterans. Dr. Work and 
Dr. Minor said that veterans are fit
ting in as good students and that 
their attitude toward their studies 
is mature, sincere, and enthusiastic.
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
26 12 64 14 16 44
The Campus Drug Store 
HA. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
Compliments
of
Mr. Raymond 
C. Waples

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1946THE CARNEGIE TARTAN9
JtUnoJUiciKif, Min @wi
Secretary to Dean Warder: 
Merits Title, Busiest Woman';
Student Council Minutes
Miss Orr, secretary to Dean War
den, Director of Student Personnel 
Welfare, is one of the most active 
women on campus. She participates 
in almost every student activity in 
one way or another. She makes all 
contacts between student organiza
tions and orchestras. Since Carnegie 
Tech has already held the Autumn 
Frolic, the Womens Guild Thanks
giving Dance, and the Sno-ball, this 
sideline alone consumes no little of 
her time. Some of her additional 
activities include supervising the 
budgets of various activities, keep
ing Student Councils petty cash, 
and approving student bills.
Miss Orr says that she has en
joyed every minute of her work 
with the students of Carnegie Tech. 
She always seems cheerful when 
asked to do something. Since she 
meets so many different people 
with so many different problems, 
her work is always varied and in
teresting. Delegations of students 
crowding around her desk are a fa
miliar sight. She sincerely tries to 
help themas anyone who has talk
ed to her knows.
Miss Orr started to work at Tech 
15 years ago, when her position was 
that of Secretary to the Registrar. 
Before starting at Tech, she taught 
piano lessons. She studied some mu
sic at Pennsylvania College for 
Women though her major there was 
mathematics. While she does not 
play now, music still remains one 
of her hobbies. Mathematics, how
ever, she has abandoned. She has 
also studied painting but does little 
of it now.
Right now she likes reading mys
tery stories, because in order to en
joy them one must start with an 
empty mind. Her favorite author is 
Earle Stanley Gardner. Her favorite 
food is chocolate ice cream; and 
while she never eats less than a pint 
at a time, she definitely does not 
show evidence of such indulgence. 
She likes her movies entertaining, 
preferably technicolor and musicals. 
She has no pet peeves and no partic
ular characteristics which she dis
likes in people. She even likes in
quisitive little Tartan reporters.
Her liking for people is a defiinite 
asset in her position, where she 
comes in contact with so many stu
dents. In addition to other jobs, at 
registration time she manages 
short-term loans, remissions of tui
tion, and scholarships. At the end of
Tecvets to Plan Dance 
At Meeting Tomorrow
The C. I. T. Tecvets will discuss 
plans for an All-Veteran dance at a 
Meeting to be held Wednesday, Jan
uary 16, at 5:15 in 104 Industries. 
Joe Nutter, president of the organ
ization, requests that all Vets at
tend.
The dance will be held at the 
Schenley Hotel, February 9, from 9 
t 1. It will have a cabaret theme 
and will be strictly an invitation 
affair.
The Vets are planning this dance 
as a welcome for the new veterans 
coming in next semester.
the year she helps will tornmencement. However, in 191! there were 
five commencements, an-1 Miss Orrs 
services were so valuable that she 
was awarded an ai'tivit.irs key en
graved Commencements 1944. Her 
remaining time she spends answer
ing two telephones and Dean War
dens buzzer, doing such secretarial 
duties as letter-writing and listening 
to the problems of students.
Miss Orr has been called a onewoman information bureau  the 
person who knows everything about 
everyone on campus, who can say 
where, when and what, and who is 
a White-Book authority. She is the 
person of whom it has been said, 
No affair could be held on campus 
without her help.
Citcom Clan Meeting 
Called for Wednesday
At 5:50 on Wednesday, January 
16, Citcom Clan will hold a meeting 
in Margaret Morrison. Plans for the 
prospective trip to Westminister for 
a basketball game will be discussed. 
All members are asked to attend as 
this is one of the most important 
meetings of the year.
Citcom, which in the past has 
sponsored a second childhood party 
and a bus trip to Geneva for the 
first away basketball game, is also 
planning a roller skating party in 
the near future.
Members of the Clan, who are in
terested in bowling, bowl every 
Thursday at 5:00 at the University 
Alleys.
Notice
Mens Glee Club needs an ac
companist. Anyone interested, 
please come to Margaret Morrison, 
Room 103, Wednesday night.
Eleventh Meeting, 1946 
January 6, 1946 
The meeting was called to order at 
7:15 p. m.
Present: Misses Emmel, Haushalter,
Horridge, Irwin, Price, and Stewart; 
Messrs. Aisenberg, Binder, Lakowski, 
Nutter, Straka and Yurchison. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Social Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the follow
ing petitions be approved by Student 
Council:
Mortar Board petitions Council for 
permission to hold a tag day through
out the school for Infantile Paralysis.
It would be held some day near the 
end of January.
Mortar Board also petitions Council 
for permission to hold a Coffee for 
new members of the faculty at Car
negie Union Sunday Evening, Janu
ary 20, 1946, from 7:30 to 9:30. (Sub
ject to Deans office rule).
Motion carried.
He also moved that the following peti
tion be approved:
Womens Guild petitions Student 
Council for permission to have a tagday on February 6, 1946. The money 
collected will be used for scholar
ships.
Motion defeated.
It was moved that A. P. O. take charge 
of refreshments in the Black Cat and 
checking of coats at the Basketball 
Dance January 12, 1946.
Motion carried.
Special Committee:
Mr. Yurchison moved that the follow
ing Arts Ball Constitution be approved 
by Student Council:
CONSTITUTION OF THE ARTS 
BALL SOCIETY HONORARY.
Article I. The Arts Ball Honorary So
ciety is an organization which will con
duct the Arts Ball. It will be their duty 
to recognize individuals who have dis
tinguished themselves in the produc
tion of the Arts Ball, and to perpetuate 
the tradition of the same. The profits 
of the dance will go to a future Arts 
Ball Fund and to a General Fund for 
the -improvement of the Arts School; 
the funds will be handled through the 
Controller.
Articlell. Organization.
Section I. Executive Board.
Part I. Membership.
A. Three faculty advisers.
B. Chairmen of all committees. 
Part II. Purpose.
A. Execute legal matters.
B. Judicial control.
C. Oversee committee activities.
Section II. Committees.
Part I. Committees as follows:
A. Entertainment.
B. Financial.
C. Decoration.
D. Refreshment.
E. Publicity.
Part II. Purpose of all committees is
to carry out their duties to the best
of their ability.
Article III. Officers.
.Section I. Officers are as follows:
A. President.
B. Vice-President.
C. Secretary.
D. Treasurer.
Section II. Officers are elected after 
each Arts Ball to preside for the 
coming Arts Ball.
Article IV. Membership.
Section I. Membership of this organ
ization shall consist of students of 
the College of Fine Arts who have 
given outstanding service to the pro
duction of the Arts Ball.
Section II. Nominations for member
ship shall be made by any member 
of the organization, or by the Exec
utive Board, during the week im
mediately following the date of the 
Ball.
Section III. Nominees shall become 
come members if approved by the 
vote of the members of the Arts Ball 
Honorary Society. Voting on mem
bership shall take place within ten 
days after the date of the Ball. 
Article V. Amendments.
Section I. This constitution may be 
amended if the amendment is re
quested by three-quarters of the 
members of the Arts Ball Honorary 
Society, and approved by Student 
Council.
Motion carried.
Mr. Yurchison also moved that Stu
dent Council give this society $200 so 
they can pay for. the beginning expenses 
of the Arts Ball; it is guaranteed that 
this money will be paid back in full.
Motion carried.
Mr. Yurchison moved that a Pep-Rally 
be held Wednesday Evening from 7:00 to 
7:30 in Thistle Hall before the Tech-Pitt 
Basketball Game.
Motion carried.
It was recommended that the base
ment of the Inn be reserved for closed 
events from 4:30 to 6:30; also that dancing 
be permitted in the Inn from 7:30 to 11:00. 
Mens Point System Committee:
Mr. Binder moved that Article I, Part
I, Sec. 3 and Article II, Part I, Sec. 3 of 
the Mens Point System be set aside for continued on page 11
Compliments
of
W. H. 
CADWALLADER I
III **


---------------------------------------------------

10THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1946
One of the Boys
Bob Teasdale
Life has its ins and outs, but for 
Robert D. Teasdale, better known 
as Bob, it has had a lot of them 
when it comes to his career here at 
Tech. When he returned to Tech at 
the beginning of this semester as a 
senior in the department of Elec
trical Engineering, it was the fourth 
time he had entered C. I. T.
His first encounter with the hal
lowed walls of our Alma Mater 
came in the fall of 1942 when he en
tered Carnegie Tech as a freshman. 
He finished only two semesters, 
however, when he was inducted in
to the army with the Enlisted Re
serve Corps. His second entrance
occured when the army returned 
most of the E. R. C. boys from Tech 
to the campus under the A. S. T. P. 
program. This was in November of 
1943, and he was here then until 
May 1944, when he left for hospital
ization. He returned again to the 
school that fall with an honorable 
discharge under his arm that had 
been acquired in July and managed 
to stay until December, at which 
time he again left to work for Westinghouse Corporation as part of his 
scholarship requirements. Here he 
worked on electronics for nine 
months. His work carried him from 
East Pittsburgh, where he started 
for Westinghouse, to Baltimore, 
Maryland, and then to Bloomfield, 
New Jersey, before his return this 
semester.
His army career included training 
at Camp Lee, Virginia, and at Fort 
Belvoir, where he took his basic 
training with the combat engineers, 
and then went on maneuvers. It 
might be interesting to note that 
while at Fort Belvoir he won the 
Championship in his weight class in 
boxing.
To see what kind of background 
it takes to produce such men, lets 
take a look at Bobs early life. He 
was born in Mount Lebanon on June 
25, 1924, and after obtaining his 
early schooling there, he received 
a three year scholarship to Culver 
Military Academy from the state of 
Pennsylvania. He graduated from 
Culver in June of 1942 and won one
of the George Westinghouse schol
arships, which accounts for his en
trance at Tech that fall.
His hobbies and activities have 
been many and varied. He takes 
great delight in singing and in read
ing poetry. He has lately been learn
ing the songs from the Gilbert and 
Sullivan productions. Bob lists Ca
bells Jurgen and Oscar Wildes 
Picture of Dorian Gray as his 
favorite books. He was more ac
tive in sports before entering C. I. T. 
than he has been since, although 
he did win his letter in cross 
country at Tech during his freshman 
year. He is most interested in boxing 
and track, and at one time ran sec
ond to the famous Greg Rice in a 
mile race held at Culver, while he 
was a student there. He has been 
very active in publications for the 
college, holding position of Copy 
Editor for the Carnegie Tartan, Ad
vertising Manager of the Thistle, 
and contributing to the Technical. 
Bob is a member of Tau Beta Pi, the 
Men's Glee Club, a pledge to A. P.
O., and secretary of the local chap
ter of the A. I. E. E.
After graduation, which will be 
this May, Bob plans to further his 
education with graduate work. He is 
striving for a fellowship and is most 
interested in Illinois Institute of 
Technology in Chicago, where he 
would do theoretical work in elec
trical engineering. As many pro
spective Tech graduates do, Bob 
is looking forward to attaining his 
Doctors degree.
Thus we now find one of our fu
ture engineers, slaving to finish his 
education and firmly believing that 
at times a commuters lot is not a 
happy one.
Science ...
continued from page 1 
Both of these options, taken with 
education subjects, can be used as 
teacher training.
Dr. Lang and his associates, in 
formulating this change in curricu
lum, had in mind an increase of elec
tives giving an opportunity for ad
ditional cultural development.
An interesting sidelight on this 
change in departmental curriculum 
is that either of the courses, after 
graduation followed by a year of 
library training, will fit one for a 
position as a technical librarian.
New Frosh Get Off Easy
Upperclassmen! It wont be as 
easy for you to distinguish these 
new February Freshmen as it was 
last semester. Youll have to depend 
entirely upon the bewildered ex
pressions on their innocent faces. 
Reason? No freshmen will be wear
ing dinks, since practically all of the 
entering freshmen will be veterans. 
They will, however, be required to 
take the Traditions Exam, covering 
Tech songs and the history of the 
school, as did the freshmen who en
tered in October.
?
Maggie Murphs Plan Bridge
The Junior class of Margaret Mor
rison is planning its first social af
fair of the year. A bridge will be 
held on February 1, 1946, in the Car
negie Union, the party starting at 8 
oclock P. M. All juniors from Mar
garet Morrison are cordially invited 
and urged to attend.
AMSLER-MORTON
DIVISION OF UNION INDUSTRIES, INC.
Design and Construction 
Steel and Glass Plants 
and Equipment
GLASS FURNACE AND MACHINERY
1320 Fulton Bldg. GRant 2180

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1946THE OARNEGIE TARTAN11
aritical femperature
Swell! Thats the only way we can 
describe the best show weve seen 
at the Little Theater since Romeo 
and Juliet. Well go further and say 
that anyone who doesnt like As You 
Like It as done by Mr. Payne and 
the Drama Department can just take 
his slide rule or his shorthand tablet 
and go somewhere. Here is Shakes
peare at his best and merriest; here 
is Mr. Payne at his best, and allthe * 
technical facilities of the Drama 
School at theirs. Here is the reason 
for the high reputation of Carnegie 
Tech among the schools of the pro
fession; here isoh well, why go 
on? Too many superlatives would 
seem to lower the degree of our 
enthusiasm, and we cant risk that. 
Just take our word for itswonderful!
When one tries to think it over 
soberly and analyze it and put ones 
finger on its particular virtues, one 
begins to get into difficulties. Techs 
As You Like It is the perfect blend 
of excellence in all the theater arts. 
For this show more than for any 
other we have ever seen here, the 
greatest praise should go to the men 
of the faculty who contributed their 
various talents to the making of 
this cooperative masterpiece. 
Shakespeare himself should head 
the list, but so as not to get in 
over our heads well begin with his 
nearest representative, Mr. B. Iden 
Payne. (After the show we over
heard a dramat saying earnestly to 
her lay friends, But I tell you, Mr. 
Payne knew Shakespeare personal
ly.) We have seen a good many 
Shakespearean plays directed by 
this gentleman, but this time he has 
outdone himself. In Shakespeare 
more than in any modern play the 
skill of the director can make or 
break the play; there are possibili
ties of such widely differing inter
pretations; there are so many words 
which must be carefully studied be
cause they meant something quite 
different in Elizabethan English 
than they do now; there are so many 
traditions to be followed or discard
ed. We just hope that after the play 
somebody kissed Mr. Payne on both 
cheeks, because if we had seen him 
then we most certainly should have!
We should also have kissed Lloyd 
Weninger for his excellent sets. The 
scenery is one part of every Tech 
production that one can depend up
on to be good, but it would be un
reasonable to expect it to be always 
as fine as it is in this show. The tra
ditional Shakespearean stage was 
abandoned this time to the Inigo 
Jones style, and all the wonderful 
facilities of the Little Theater stage 
were brought into play. Even the 
painting job should be commended. 
Mr. Kimberlys lighting is on a par 
with Mr. Weningers set. Much of 
the applause at the end of the first 
part was intended for his beautiful 
arrangement of the feast scene. It 
must be said, however, that in a few 
places the lights were too glaring, 
or so bright that they destroyed the 
illusion of the actors makeup or 
cast shadows on the backdrops.
A special vote of thanks goes to 
Miss Patricia Mahon of the Music 
Department, who supervised the 
performance of the many madrigals 
that were sung. The singing itself 
was very well done, as was the back
stage accompaniment. The dancing, 
directed by Gertrude Bunzel, was 
executed with much more natural
ness and liveliness than usualthe
actors, instead of going through the 
steps with lacklustre eye, really 
seemed to be having a good time.
There is not much we can say 
about the acting itself. It was neith
er very bad nor very good. Mary 
Laura Wood was a perfectly charm
ing Rasolind, but she did not domi
nate the show because its general 
excellence permits of no domination 
by one character. There is some 
little fault we could find with each 
of the other actors, but they are 
too trifling to bother with when one 
is in such a benign mood as we are 
now. Parker Meyers made a sur
prisingly good jester, although he 
is not quite light enough on his feet. 
Ray Boyles Melancholy Jacques re
ceived a great deal of applause, and 
since we were just a spectator it 
would not be fair for us to criticize 
him because his interpretation does 
not correspond to what ours would 
have been. There were small faults, 
as we said above, but the general 
level of performance was high, and 
that is a more desirable situation 
than to have a few very good actors 
and a few very bad, as so often hap
pens.
As You Like It is having a longer 
run than most of the Little Theater 
plays, but we are afraid that even 
this will not be long enough to ac
commodate all those who wish to 
see it. Perhaps if the house is as full 
every night as it was on Saturday, 
Mr. Payne can be prevailed upon to 
extend the run beyond Jan. 23, its 
present length. At any rate, we say 
to all the students: you are here to 
get an education as well as to enjoy 
yourselves, and if you dont see this 
show you are missing something 
very worth-while on both counts;
Minutes .  .
continued from page 9
Delta Skull and Scimitars for next semes
ter for the following reasons:
1. There is not a present Delta 
Skull or Scimitar organization to 
collect and count the points.
2. Points must be counted for sev
eral years back and no accurate count 
can be made.
3. Also many of the students do 
not have enough points because of the 
lack of some activities during war 
years.
Motion carried.
He also moved that the list be drawn 
up by the Mens Point Committee and 
voted on by Council after those eligible 
for membership in Delta Skull and Scim
itars are posted on the bulletin board.
Motion carried.
Budget Committee:
Miss Emmel moved that the Interhonorary Budget for their coming dance be 
approved with the following stipulations:
1. That they guarantee that the 
necessary funds for the dance is in 
the combined treasury.
2. That this money must be in the 
office one week before the dance (to
tal of $300).
3. That the Deans office accept 
these provisions before arrangements 
are made for the tickets and band.
4. That the profits go toward the 
bookshelf.
Motion carried.
New Business:
Mr. Aisenberg proposed that Art II, 
Section 10 be stricken from the By-laws 
of the Student Council Const.:
Part I. The chairman of the Spring 
Carnival Committee shall be chosen 
from the incumbent members who 
have been active on the Com. for 
previous years.
Part 2. The Spring Cam. Com. shall 
be composed of the chairman and 
the heads and members of the sub
committees by the chairman.
Part 3. The duties of the Spr. Car. 
Com. shall be to handle all matters 
pertinent to Sp. Carnival.
Commencement . . .
continued from page 1
The seniors will graduate in an 
impressive ceremony. They will 
wear caps and gowns and follow the 
age old tradition of changing the tas
sels on their caps after they receive 
their degrees.
A reception for the seniors, their 
parents, and the faculty will be held 
in the Exhibition Room, College of 
Fine Arts, on Sunday afternoon Feb
ruary 3rd following the Commence
ment Exercises.
Sgt. Lewis Is Appointed 
Temporary ROTC Prof.
Another new sergeant entered the 
ranks of Techs R. O. T. C. on Thurs
day, January 10. He is Master Ser
geant Lewis and will replace Mas
ter Sergeant Dobbs who will be on 
furlough in Florida for three 
months. Sergeant Lewis will hold 
the position of Sergeant Major, an 
administrative and clerical post.
Although Sergeant Lewis had 
been in the Army for ten years, he 
just reenlisted at Fort Mead. Before 
he was discharged the sergeant was 
in New Orleans with the Office of 
the Provost Marshal, a department 
involving internal securities. Ser
geant Lewis hails from Louisville, 
Kentucky and has had a long period 
of military training so undoubtedly 
our boys will profit by the sergeants 
experience.
At Last! It Is Here!
Its finally happened! Heres the 
story that youve been waiting for 
since the beginning of the semester. 
Its here now! The new, original, 
only-one-of-its-kind, October issue 
of the Carnegie Technical. Yes, the 
Technical, with all the latest dope 
about relativity, jet-propulsion, and 
the atomic bomb.
Clothing Drive Opens, 
Collection Period Set
The Nation-wide Victory Clothing 
Collection officially opened Monday, 
January 7th. The period between 
January 7th and January 31st has 
been set aside for the drive. The 
Collection, which was requested by 
President Truman, will be conduct
ed throughout the nation. The goal 
is a hundred-million garments for 
overseas relief. The quota for Alle
gheny County is a garment from 
every man, woman, and child.
Preparations for the drive have 
been the most extensive ever made 
for a similar activity here. Every 
organization, publication, radio sta
tion, and advertiser in the County 
has been asked to back the drive.
The usual collection methods will 
be used. Trucks will pick up cloth
ing from each house, and police and 
fire departments will give their sta
tions for depots for shipping.
Profs. Evans and Porter 
Return from Overseas
Early Christmas morning, two 
men from Carnegie Tech, Fred J. 
Evans, Professor of Civil Engineer
ing, and George M. Porter, Professor 
of Electrical Engineering, returned 
on the Enterprise from Sharivenham, England, where they had help
ed to organize the Sharivenham 
American University under the jur
isdiction of the War Department.
Mr. Evans and Mr. Porter left 
July 2, 1945, for Sharivenham which 
is about sixty miles from London. 
The only boys who are eligible to 
receive training in the school are 
G. I.s from the American Army of 
Occupation and returning veterans. 
Both professors are at home resting 
after a very stormy trip across the 
Atlantic. At the start of the second 
semester, they will resume their ac
tivities on Tech campus.
STEEL PRODUCTS CO.
Wide Flange Beams 
Shapes - Plates 
Corrugated Roofing 
Bands Hoops
Hot and Cold 
DRAWN STEEL BARS 
Diamond Pattern 
Checkered Plates
Warehouse Service
200 Bradley St. 
McKees Rocks, Pa.FEderal 3300

---------------------------------------------------

12THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 19463T(ie dTarnecjte jlaid
*7<4e iZditan. dUi.
The other evening a fellow stu
dent stopped and asked me when 
the Tech Drama Department pro
posed having their next play. There 
was no excuse for this question as 
this particular student knew about 
the evening school paper. An article 
pertaining to this subject has ap
peared in each publication of the 
Plaid for three consecutive weeks. 
The purpose of the Plaid is to carry 
all current campus news and notices 
of coming evening school events.
The staff and workers of the Plaid 
collect news items and spend hours 
of diligent work preparing these 
items for publication. These stu
dents unselfishly give their leisure 
time on Friday evenings asking 
nothing in return for their time and 
effort. You can show your apprecia
tion by reading the Plaid and then 
handing it to another student to 
read.
At one time a copy of the paper 
was sent to each evening student 
enrolled at Tech Evening School. 
This practice had to be discontin
ued due to the war. The discontinu
ing of this convenience necessitates 
each student to pick up their own 
copy of the paper. We realize that 
many students are often pressed for 
time and find it impossible to go 
wandering through the halls looking 
for a copy of the paper. To alleviate 
such a condition special containers 
were made and conviently placed at 
each entrance of all campus build
ings. It takes only a fraction of a 
minute to stop and get your edition 
of the Plaid. When you pick up your 
copy of the paper do your daily 
good deed and pick up an extra copy 
of the paper for the student sitting 
next to you in class.

OntesuM&Ajituj,
In interviewing we try to be fair 
to both the boys and girls; that is, 
one week we interview a boy, and 
the following week we interview a 
girl. So tonight, the air of interest 
falls on a pretty Miss, who has beau
tiful blonde hair, fellows, with glim
mering natural highlights, and blue 
eyes that are always sparkling. 
Thats not all, male students, she is 
5 5 tall, nineteen years old, plus an 
exceptionally attractive smile that 
is breath-taking. Her name? Why 
yes of course, Miss Hazel Fowkes.
When asked what she liked best, 
Dancing?No! Music?No 
Well gee, Hazel, what is it? 
Laughingly she replied, SPORTS, 
namely basketball. It is unusual for 
a girl to put anything before danc
ing or music, but Hazel is the un
usual type of girl, and very inter
esting too. For a good movie she 
prefers blood-curdling, gruesome, 
chilling murder mytseries, and does 
quite a bit of novel reading.
Now make way for her hobby, an
other odd but interesting fact of 
Hazels. This hobby is collecting pa
per napkins for all of the celebrat
ed holidays; but she has a fine help
er for this collection of hers, since
Three little maids from school 
are we . . . from school is right 
. . . wonder what kept them from 
class ... At least Arlene was con
scientious . . . she wanted to go 
. . . Dear Editor: Please hurry 
back; you are sadly missed by 
everyone . . . especially the assist
ant editors who have grown whitehaired from laying out the page . . . 
and speaking of absentees . . . 
where, oh, where is our old faithful 
eight ball ed? Was this rain too 
much for his tender tootsies ... al
so in thinking back . . . wonder 
why Jack Griffith and sailor friend 
were wolfing it at the Christmas 
dance.
Arlene must have that certain 
touch . . . wonder who taught her 
safe cracking . . . after the gang 
spent all evening working on the 
combination lock . . . one little 
touch from our genius does the trick.
No wonder the McClosky sisters 
are at the top of their class . . . the 
way these girls pool their knowl
edge is something to behold . . . 
everything else, such as???? . . . 
Need I say more . . . One of the 
proverbial orchids to Frank Mihelich 
who volunteered to take over the 
job of program chairman and who 
has been a right-hand man all along 
. . . that Engineering Student still 
insists that it was a case of misun
derstanding that kept poor Martha 
waiting for him in Industry Hall 
Friday evening . . . that guy is 
going to get himself into a mess he 
wont be able to talk himself out of 
. . . Its getting so a fellow has to 
know at least two or three different 
languages or he feels like a foreigner 
in the Plaid office . . . first Betty 
starts off in French then Ed answers 
her in Spanish . . . then every man 
for himself.
WE ARE FORCED TO RE
MIND department . . . Ches, will 
you please pul-lese remember to 
bring the pencil sharpener . . . 
while were passing out orchids 
(this is beginning to get expensive)
. . . My hat is off to the lad who 
writes End Man on the Senior 
Fence for the Tartan.
her mother is a Sunday School 
teacher and takes part in all social 
affairs, Hazel is well on her way to 
make this hobby a success. You can 
always find that extra touch on her 
dining room table for she also col
lects salt and pepper shakers.
This charming Miss lives in Pit
cairn and is taking up her first year 
of Engineering at Tech, She is em
ployed at the Westinghouse Electric 
Corporation and does Drafting. 
Well, Hazel, we enjoyed interview
ing you, and want to thank you for 
your fine co-operation; loads of luck 
and success to you in your chosen 
field.
Workers Are Needed 
To Carry On Activities
As we approach the beginning of 
another semester an appropriate 
question at this time would be  
How is the enrollment going to 
move? In that category also we 
might include  Are we going to 
have more response to the urgent 
appeals which appear from time to 
time on the Plaid Page. Wanted, 
workers and support for the Extra 
Curricular Activities.
Seriously, these two questions are 
important ones from a student view
point as well as from the Councils 
viewpoint.
It is one thing to make all the nec
essary arrangements for some func
tion only to find that the efforts 
were not as successful as they might 
have been. To complete any ar
rangement of a function two major 
points stand out; a well planned pro
gram and a well patronized party.
The Evening Student Council is 
doing all that can be done a,t the 
present time, not only to furnish a 
well balanced program but to so
licit and encourage good attendance. 
Nothing so discourages a committee 
than to have a well balanced pro
gram supported by a small attend
ance.
The Council is willing to do all 
in its power to furnish the evening 
students with a socia] calendar of 
varied events and it does not seem 
too much to ask that these pro
grams be supported. Perhaps the stu
dents themselves have some ideas 
in the way of entertainment or a 
social calendar which they would 
like to present. Now would be an 
appropriate time to make sugges
tions. It would, therefore, be ap
preciated by the Evening Student 
Council if the students would con
vey their thoughts and ideas to its 
members. The Council Box can be 
used for this purpose. Students 
wishing to send in suggestions can 
address the Evening Student Coun
cil, Box 256, and place the note in 
the Inter-School Mail. No postage is 
necessary and all the suggestions 
will receive consideration. Incident
ally, the campus Post Office Box is 
in the basement of Administration 
Hall.
Drama Department Dishes 
Dandy Dialogue Dissertation
The Carnegie Tech Drama De
partment has again proven what a 
fine, competent, and versatile group 
they can be by their presentation 
of the Shakesperian play As You 
Like It, which is under the direc
tion of Mr. B. Iden Payne.
The play is being presented in 
the Little Theater in the College of 
Fine Arts. The performance begins 
at 8:30 p. m. and the last presenta
tion will be given on January 22.
Each evening school student is 
entitled to two tickets, which can be 
secured from Mr. McKelway in 
Room 255-C on the second floor of 
the Administration Building.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Ruth McGraw
News EditorPrank Mihelich
Associate EditorsVirginia Ehni, Betty Ashcraft
Page edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School Staff.
StaffOlive Baumgardner Arlene McMurrayMartha Borkovich Edw. E. McDonaldBetty Hopkins Ann RawlingsFlorence Kelly Joseph M. RymarMary Kolson Anne SheckIrene Koerner Dorothy ShieldsEmma Jean Lewis Fred L. VichichNancy E. Lewis Cecille ZellnerJoy A. Ridgeway Jack Qriffia
Valentine Party Plans 
Assure Successful Even
The St. Valentines Day party that 
Evening Student Council is planning 
for February, promises to be a hum
dinger. Already the Carnegie Union 
has been obtained for the affair and 
any person that has attended a func
tion at the Union knows what a fine 
and enjoyable evening may be had.
For instance, there is the friendly 
atmosphere of th'e game room where 
one can dance. As mentioned in the 
last edition of the PLAID, there will 
.be dancing to the finest orchestras in 
the land, the music coming direct 
from records. If perchance you have 
any recordings you particularly likfc 
to dance to, bring them along and 
be certain of having your own fav
orite music.
Then there is the cozy, beautiful 
lounge room where card tables are 
to be placed. If you care to play any
thing from Gin Rummy to Bridge, 
this will be the place to do it. Yes, 
we musnt forget to mention the 
basement where the ping-pong 
equipment will be available for 
those students who feel like releas
ing a little of their pent up energy.
Delicious sandwiches, cookies, and 
coffee will top the list of refresh
ments. To supplement the activities 
of your own choosing, the commit
tee in charge of this affair also in
tend to have pleasant, friendly 
stunts that will make the group 
present seem as one, big,1 happy fam
ily all helping to make the other fel
low enjoy himself to the utmost.
The best part of it all is that this 
whole evening of fun isnt going to 
cost you a cent. Now, where could 
you do any better than that? Be sure 
to watch your PLAID for further 
announcements.
Changes For Final Exams 
And Registration Announced
As was previously announced, the 
dates of the second semester regis
tration will be Wednesday, Janu
ary 30, and Thursday, January 31, 
instead of the one night originally 
scheduled, January 30. Class will be
gin Friday, February 1, instead of 
January 31.
For those who have been antici
pating their Final Examinations, the 
exams will be held from Tuesday, 
January 22 to Monday, January 28, 
inclusive, instead of January 23 to 
January 29.
Be sure to note these date changes 
for exam night is not too far away.
