REMJEMBEE! 
PENN STATE SPECIAL 
$6.20 PER SPEC.
CHEERING WINS GAMES 
LETS BEAT STATE 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1924
VOL. XIX No. 7CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1924
TARTANS FACE 
NITTANY LIONS 
AT PENN STATE
Penn State or Bust is Motto 
of Plaid Warriors as They 
Meet Bezdecks Proteges 
on State College Gridiron
BUMMERS! REPORT TO 
TARTAN OFFICETHISTLE OPENS 
i SUBSCRIPTION
DR. SAMUEL H. GOLDENSON
NEXT SPEAKER AT CHAPEL
GET YOUR PRELIM TAG
All men expecting to hike, walk 
bum, or motor to the game at Penn 
State and who are desirous of earn-svr:, zt:-, campaign soon
tries, next Thursday noon. i ----------------------
The Carnegie Song Book Staff has 
a proposition to offer which will in
terest most of the fellows as a little 
sideline, that will add to the fun and 
enjoyment of the trip.
Be there at 12:30 harpFive min
utes is all that is needed. Ask for
A. E. Krogh.
Bigger and Better Thistle 
Asks Support of Entire 
Student Body and Active 
Alumnae Association
Next Saturday marks Carnegies 
annual football game with Penn State. 
The two teams are more evenly 
matched than ever, thus promising the 
finest battle of the year. State, hav
ing been defeated twice consecutive
ly, is primed to defeat Carnegie, but 
the Plaids experience against Pitt 
and W. & J. is bound to exhibit itself 
in our favor. The spirit our men 
showed at the Pitt game is the polish 
the team needs to win. Our cheers 
gave them thatPenn State or bust.
Two years ago 980 students availed 
themselves of the low rate train fare 
to State College and a delightful two 
hundred mile trip through the heart 
of the Allegheny. mountains. This 
year an even lower rate of $6.20 a 
round trip is offered the red tags the 
students are wearing already indi
cate the number who are going. 
Lets break last years record,be 
one of the hundreds to board the 
train with the kiltie band, for the 
beautiful morning ride through the 
mountains to State College, Pa., and 
a victory for Carnegie.
State is all agog, expecting to show 
their alumni a victory over the Plaid, 
but what are State's chances when 
our cheering students led by the kil
ties, parade into the field to urge on 
Carnegie.
Lets go! The tickets are on sale 
until Friday evening at Buddy Over
ends office only, 120 gymnasium. The 
train leaves Pennsylvania Station at 
7:30 a. m., Saturday, November 8, and 
arrives at 1 p. m. in ample time for 
lunch,
Saturday is Pennsylvania Day at 
State and the alumni will be back to 
watch the team go up against Car(Continued on Page Four.)
PSYCHOLOGY TEST 
RESULTS RELEASED
Musical Clubs Stunts 
Quite Disconcerting
Aleshins Bellyacha, Mitchell 
and Koppes Outstanding
Carnegie is Rated Highly in 
Intelligence Tests Given 
to Freshmen
BOARD WORKING HARD
After grading papers and compil
ing results, the Psychology Depart
ment announces that the average 
student entering Carnegie this year 
has as good, if not better mental ca
pacity than any other first class in
stitution in the country. We have 
a six per cent better grade of aver
age intelligence than Stanford, a uni
versity that is rated very highly on 
the west coast. It Is possible to 
make this comparison because both 
Carnegie and Stanford use the 
Thorndyke tests.
The fact that many students make 
high scores in tlie tests is not a 
guarantee that, such. students will 
succeed in a college career. While 
it is true that only a small per cent 
of students do class work of a high
er quality than the tests show them 
capable of doing, it is equally true 
that quite a large per cent fail to do 
work equal to the capacity shown by 
their test scores. This is taken as tory over our worthy opponent. Pitt?
Be prepared, fellow students! With
in two weeks the Thistle will launch 
the most successful campaign in the 
history of the school. Have your 
$4.50 ready! You will not regret it 
for the Thistle will be your old stand
by when you are far away from Car
negie. It will bring your thoughts 
back to your dear Alma Mater and 
the good times that you had when 
you were there; especially your fresh
man year, when you thought the 
Sophomores should be every place 
else but at Carnegie.
Not forgetting too, that when you 
Were a Junior you visioned yourself 
sitting on the Senior fence. Think it 
over earnestly, fellow students. It is 
worth while, for there will surely 
come a day when you will want to 
kick yourself for not thinking about it 
at the right time.
The Thistle is not a text booic from 
which you must study in order that 
you can confront those weird exams j 
prepared by your profs. It is a recoVd 
of all the activities and functions of 
your school. It is a directory to which 
you can refer in connection with your 
school, class-mates, and what not 
Who would not want to be the proud 
possesor of a book within which 1s 
inscribed our second successive vicschool. It is your Alma Mater, so why
Dr. Samuel H. Goldenson, -of the j 
Rodef Shalom Congregation, has been 
invited to speak at the next institute j 
chapel services, which will be held | 
in the Little Theater on Thursday, j 
November 6, at 12:50. 
Although the subject of his dis-j 
course is unknown, it will undoubtedj 
ly be very interesting and appealing j 
to all who will attend.
SINK OLD STATE 
CHEER RALLY 
IN GYM TODAY
NEXT TARTAN TO BE LATE
BECAUSE OF ARMISTICE DAY
CARNEGIE DAY DATE 
CHANGED TO NOV. 21
Bob Waddell, Buddy Overend  
and Kiltie Band to Feature 
Program at Cheering Rally 
For Carnegie-State Game
IN NEW GYM AT 11:30
Charles M. Schwab, Protege 
of Carnegie, Will Deliver 
Days Address
You should had ought to have saw 
the stunts! 'Two days ago,-yep, Sun
day, the Musical Clubs held the an
nual tryouts for the stunts to be used 
on the trips and at the concerts. Oh 
my what a diversified program they 
can turn out. Bill Aleshin on the 
"Bellyacha, Mitchell, the Red Head
ed Hawaiian on the native guitar, 
Wayne Koppes in the clever stunt by 
himself, and several numbers which 
will be sprung on the student body as 
surprise numbers in the future. All 
in all the occasion was a great one, 
and the cider was good too.
Of course there are other things 
besides stunts in the Musical Clubs. 
Last Sunday evening tlie clubs went 
to the Sixth Presbyterian Church and 
sang the new number "The College 
Gang, and other' songs which are of 
a local natur^. The showing was 
quite promising, for it means that 
the men are all out to win, and that 
is what makes tbe clubs.
As far as the rehearsals are con
cerned, there is nothing to be said to 
add or detract. They go along as 
though they had always done so, 
snappy, enjoyably, and easily. The 
directors, speaking collectively of the 
two clubs, have no trouble keeping 
the spirits of the men high for they 
spring something new each Sunday. 
The program for the year is being 
formulated gradually, and the outline 
at present seems to be well in ad(Continued on Page Four)
an indication that other factors have 
a direct bearing on college success. 
It is quite likely that the most im
portant of these factors are health 
and physical -conditions, time spent 
in study and methods of study used1 
by tlie student, along with. ability 
to make certain social and emotional 
adjustments.
The use of tests in an effort to 
measure intelligence, or, in other 
words, ability to learn, is not a new 
undertaking. Psychologists have 
been experimenting with such tests 
for over twenty-five (years. The pro-j 
cess of determining what specific 
tests to use has been a long and te
dious one involving the use of large 
groups of people and numerous sta
tistical devices. The final determin
ation of the validity of test elements 
is reached only) by checking past rec
ords and later accomplishments of tho 
experimental! groups against the test 
scores. While the predictive value of 
mental tests is not absolute, they do 
have a higher predictive value than 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Alumni! Keep in touch with your 
delay about finding out what progress 
old Carnegie has been making in scho
lastic standing, athletics, and other 
school activities since you left. Com 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Work of Under-Sea 
Painter on Exhibit
Twenty-Six Unique Pictures 
Being Displayed
Drama Department to 
Present The Critic
JUNIOR AND SENIOR MEN
MAY NOW USE CARNEGIE INN
Comedy By Sheridan Will 
Open Monday
The Drama department will repre
sent a new and unusual phase of tl\e 
stage in "The Critic by Richard 
Brinsley Sheridan, an English author 
of the eighteenth century, to be pre
sented the week of November 10, in 
the Little Theatre.
The play, a comedy, presents many 
interesting and amusing sidelights of 
the stage of the last quarter of the 
eighteenth century. The action of the 
play deals with a rehearsal of a drama 
of the period. The actors are all cos
tumed in the dress of the pre-victorian age. It is the period of volumnous 
hoop skirts and picture bonnets, of 
powdered wigs and knee trousers. 
The play presents much of the time 
honored "hokum of that period of 
drama. It offers an excellent oppor
tunity for burlesque of the magnifi
cent gestulations and the thunderous 
bombast of the old stage. It presents 
much wholesome comedy amid the 
crude and cumbersome setting of the 
period.
The Critic is , to be presented
Carnegie Inn, up to this time fre
quented only by the women students 
of the school, has been thrown open 
to the Junior and Senior male stu
dents as well. Meals can be procured under the direction of Ben Iden Payne, j custom established last year, the offiThe extraordinary feat, of painting 
pictures at tho bottom of the ocean 
lias been accomplished by Mr. Zara II. 
Pritchard, who has been in Pittsburgh 
for some days preparing an exhibi
tion of his under sea paintings which 
opened in the Carnegie Museum on 
Sunday, October 26.
Mr. Pritchard's pictures of under
sea life are wierdly beautiful and 
some of the scenes are remarkably 
like views on the earths surface. The 
unique way in which this natural istartist works makes it possible for 
him to obtain startling results. When 
Mr. Pritchard descends to work he 
wears a diving jacket reaching to his 
waist having a headpiece with glass 
windows for the eyes. I-Ie uses oil 
paints which are not affected by wa
ter and weights his brushes with lead. 
His canvas Ayhich is painted with 
three coats of linseed oil is lowered 
to him when he finds a desirable lo
cality. His working materials are 
often left under water over night, as 
there are no currents on the bottom 
of the sea.
The twenty-six paintings in the ex
hibition were made from original 
sketches made under the surface of 
(Continued on Page Three.)
ARMY OFFICERS OFFER 
CUP FOR MARKSMANSHIP
All the regular army officers in 
charge of the. R. O. T. C., have 
offered prizes consisting of a silver, 
gold and bronze medal for the first, 
second, and third best shots in gal
lery marksmanship. These medals 
being of a military nature, may be 
worn on the R. O. T. C. uniform and 
also on the uniform of a reserve offi
cer.
In addition, in accordance with the
at noon, from 12:30 until 1:30 on 
Monday to Friday, inclusive. The Inn, 
situated as it is in the old gymna
sium, is a revelation of interior deco
rating, but contrary to appearances 
cover charges are taboo. Meals at 
the Inn cost no more than those at 
the Commons.- The cafeteria system 
of service is followed out. In the 
mornings and evenings the Inn is re
served for the women dormitory stu
dents.
head o zt: Drama department. There eer in charge of the Engineer Unit, 
is a large cast but there are no out-JR. O. T. C. has offered a cup for the 
standing roles. The cast includes | best shot in the .Engineer Unit, with
Philip Rhodes Thorne, Marion Bee
son, Elizabeth Sowersby, Claire 
Schellhouse. Virginia Williams, Har
die Albright, Vernor L. Halden, Har
riet Walker, Ida Kraus, Zabelle Davis, 
Robert Alderdice, Saul Schwartz, 
Harry Mervis, John Conway, F. Leon 
Ford, Caroline Marsh, Joe Gessner, 
and Maury Tuckerman.
Baggage Car Buffet Service On
Train To and From Penn State
the 22-calibre army rifle. This cuo 
last year, as well as the cup offered 
by the "Castle, was won by John J. 
Jarema. It is expected that Jarema 
will have a great deal of competi
tion this year and will not carry oft! 
first prize so easily.
The faculty committee in charge of 
the Carnegie Day ceremonies an
nounces that the date has been 
changed from Tuesday, November 25 
to Friday, November 21. Classes will 
be dismissed from 10:20 to 1:30. A 
parade will form and march to the 
Music Hall, as in former years, where 
the students will hear Mr. Charles 
M. Schwab, the speaker of the occaj 
sion.
The clmnge of date was made in 
order to ^conform with, the decision re
cently arrived at that Carnegie day 
in the future shall . always be ob
served on the Friday nearest Mr. Car
negies birthday, Novembor 25.
President Baker is fortunate in be
ing able to secure Charles M. Schwab 
as the speaker for the' day. Mr. 
Schwab, during tho early years of 
his lifo was intimately associated 
with Andrew Carnegie. Upon Ills 
graduation from St. Francis College, 
Loretto, Pa., he entered the service 
of the Carnegie Steel Co., as a stake 
driver on the engineering corps. His' 
ability soon attracted tho attention of 
Carnegie, who aided him materially in 
his rise to the pinnacle of success.
At the oarly ago of 35 he became 
president of the Carnegie Steel Com
pany. In 1!)01 he was appointed to 
the same position in tho Unitod 
States Steol Corporation. I-Ie became 
chairman of the board of the Bothlchem Steel Corporation two years 
later. Ho still holds this position, in 
addition to being a director of many 
companies, the most prominent of 
these being tho Bethlehem Stool, the 
Chicago Pneumatic riool Company, 
Metropolitan Lifo, St.utz Motor Car 
Co., Vanadium Corpn., and tho Tonopah Extension Mining Co.
During Americas participation in 
the World War, Mr. Schwab sacrificed 
much of his time for his country, 
holding the position of Director Gen(Continued on Page Four)
Three Days Institute 
For Master Plumbers
Heating and Ventilating En
gineers to Meet
Plumbers and heating and vontllatting engineers in all parts of Penn
sylvania and the Tri-State district 
have been invited to become "stu
dents again next week and to attend 
the Three Days' Institute arranged 
for them by Carnegie Institute of 
Technology for November 12, 13 and 
14. The novelty of holding a special 
three days course of lectures and 
demonstrations for these tradesmen 
is considered as one of the most sig
nificant steps yet taken in linking up 
the facilities of an educational insti
tution with the needs of industry.
The three days Institute, which 
will be given by the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology without charge to 
any who care to attend, is the first 
of its kind ever offered in the Pitts
burgh District. In developing the 
plan, the local institution has had the 
active co-operation of the Master 
Plumbers Association of Pennsyl
vania, which organization alone will 
be represented by scores of its mem
bers throughout the state.
(Continued on Page Four.)
HOOT MONITOR OUT 
SATURDAY ON SPECIAL
CLUB ROOM FOR SMOKING
PROMISED IN INDUSTRIES
Those going to Penn State on the : in the town sold out before everySpecial will have a buffet service a I one was fed.
la baggage car which will do away I Box lunches composed of lettuce, 
with the need for the mad rush to find i ham, mayonnaise, combination, and 
something to eat before and after the : apple butter sandwiches, pickles, 
game. Two years ago many were doughnuts, apples, and choice of 
unfortunately compelled to ride home | either coffee or cider will be offered 
with a keen empty feeling because of for 50 cents. Boxes will be served 
the fact that most of the restaurants | both on the going and "return trip.
The Industries Student Senate asks 
for the co-operation of the student 
body to help abolish smoking in the 
buildings of the College of Industries. 
If the "No Smoking rule is. a poor 
one, it should be changed, but as long 
as it remains a rule it must be faith
fully observed by the student body.
Steps are being taken at this time 
to arrange for a club room where 
smoking will be permitted, but until 
this can be done students should ob
serve the present rule.
. The Hoot Monitor will put in its 
second appearance this coming Sat
urday for the Penn State game. The 
first issue came out for the CarnegleW. - J. game and met with much 
success.
The paper is published for the 
amusement and entertainment of the 
students taking the trip, and is not a 
mercenary proposition. IJs aim is to 
please the students.
This Issue will contain much more 
In tho way of humor and pep than the 
former did. it will also contain all 
the dope relative to the parade from 
tho train as well as such minor de
tails as to where to eat, etc.
Incidentally this paper will be sold 
for five cents a copy on the train 
Saturday. Dont fail to buy one and 
get all the dope straight on the days 
doings.
You can save yourself the price of 
a program for the game by buying a 
Hoot Monitor as it will contain the 
numbers of the football players. And 
last but not least you will want to 
read the humorous stories by ex
perts like Don . Gardner, Fred Smith, 
Carl Winning, etc.
The cheering rally for tho Penn 
State-Carnegie game this Saturday 
will be held today, at 11:30 in the Car
negie gymnasium.
The Penn State game looms up as 
one of the big hurdles on the foot
ball schedule and the Carnegie stu
dent body is going to back tho team 
for this game with the Nittany Lions 
as they did for the Plaid-Panther tus
sle. Carnegie wants to "Sink Old 
State.
Prominent on tho program at this 
rally will be tho kiltie band, Bob 
Waddell and Buddy Overend.
Bob Waddell will givo the students 
some inside dope on tho impending 
game. I-Ie may toll how ho scoutod 
tho Lions during the 1922 season 
when the Plaid went to State College 
and lost a tough battle by a 10-0 
score. Waddell is priming tho team 
for tho battle with Penn Stato Sat
urday whon Wally Steffen and Hugo 
Bezdek will again match wits.
Buddy Overend Is slated to dlvulgo 
some information about tho trip to 
Penn Stato and arrangements which 
havo been mado to take caro of our 
student body when it moves on 
masso to State Collogo Saturday.
In 3 922, tho last time Carnogie bat
tled tho Lions, 980 students traveled 
to Penn Stato on tlio special train, 
and uncounted others mado thoir way 
to Stato College via automobile and 
othor less commodious transporta
tion.
Today the iciltlo band will furnish 
tho mimic for ono of the best ehpor(Continued on Pago Four.)
Shilling Prepares to 
Hold Bridge Next Sat.
Owing to tho fact that Armistice 
Day is to bo c.olebratod on Tuesday 
this year, the Carnogio Tartan which 
would normally appear on that day 
will not come out until Wednesday, 
November 12. This notice is insert
ed so that no student in his anxiety 
to "get the dope on tho Penn Stato 
game will make a useless journey to 
tho precincts of tho college on Tues
day. It does not seem advisable to 
get tho Tartan out Monday as it.. is 
hoped that Monday will also bo a hol
iday. So Wednesday it is, look for 
your Carnegie Tartan then and you 
will not be disappointed.
NIGHT MEN RECEIVE 
20 SCHOLARSHIPS
Arthur. W. Sparks and Insti
tute Scholarships Are 
Awarded
One Hundred Tables Have 
Been Engaged at K. C, B.
Kaufman and ^Baers Auditorium has 
booh ongttgod for tho Shilling Mrldgo 
to bo hold Novombor the fifteenth at 
two-thirty. Tho commlttoo iu charge 
of the bridge consists of Dot Diamond, 
chairman, Harriot Mprwlri, Sara. Mao 
Evorott, Carol Folghfc, Roso Moron, 
Nora Willetts, and Alleo Nelson. Tho 
commlttdo Is planning to havo ono 
hundrod tahlos, and quite a largo 
turn-out Is expected, especially from 
the alumni. Tickets may ho obtained 
from mombors of tho Shilling Staff, 
ciie charge, being only a dollar.
Tho Shilling Is tho ono publication 
which alms to put tho boat literary 
work of tho students of Carnogio Toch 
beforo such others of tho student body 
as caro to interest themsolvos in it. 
Tho Staff is composed exclusively of 
women students of tho Collegd of Fino 
Art and the Margaret Morrison Car
negie College. The Shilling Itself, 
however, Is representative of all four 
schools.
The proceeds of the bridge will be 
directed toward making the Shilling 
a bigger and beter publication, and 
for this reason all who can are urged 
to come. Dont forget, Kaufman and 
Baers Auditorium, Novembor the fif
teenth, at two-thirty. Come and help 
boost the Shilling.
C. M. E. S. HOLDS FIRST 
SMOKER OF SEMESTER
Last Thflrsday evening at the Bu
reau of Mines, the C. M. E. *S. held 
their first real get-together and 
smoker of the new semester. At 
least seventy-five men, among whom 
were such notables as Prof. Trinks, 
Jerry Jarema, and others,- faced Pres
ident Stiegler, as he opened the ses
sion with a few introductory remarks. 
An interesting film illustrating some 
of the fine points in automobile en
gine work was flashed on thd screen. 
It had the usual earmarks of the Gen
eral Motors Companys ingenuity and 
thoroughness, and was well received 
by the audience. After a little visit 
upstairs to the cafeteria, where re
freshments were In order, the Me
chanicals were entertained by their 
versatile leader Prof, Trinks, De
spite i he fact that the professor is 
(Continued on Page Two,
JR. BANQUET COMMITTEE
HOLDS FIR8T MEETING
Tho Junior Banquet Committee 
held their first meeting In Arts 
School,.Room ,, on Tuesday.
Committees appointed are as fol
lows: Cook and Patterson to arrange 
for the hotel Sirn hoi I, and A, E. 
Thomas on Publicity, Bassett and Sea
man have charge of the entertain
ment. Complete arrangements will 
be made at the second meeting, which 
is being held today. At this time the 
several committees'will make their 
first report. The banquet is to be 
held on December 13.
Twonty scholarships have been 
awarded for the current year to Pitts
burgh students enrolled in night 
courses according to an announce
ment from Dean A. W. Tarboll. Chair
man of the Commlttoo on Scholar
ships. Included in this number are 
19 Institute Scholarships valued at 
$30 each, and the Arthur W. Sparks 
Memorial Scholarship.
The Arthur W. Sparks Scholarship 
was won by Clarence Neads, a student 
in tho Department of Painting and Il
lustration, in the Collogo of Fine Arts. 
According to tho torms, this scholar
ship is offered yearly by tho Institute 
to an upper class night student of high 
scholarship standing and character In 
tho Dopnrtm'jont of Painting and Illus
tration. Tho award consists of a re
mission of tho tuition foe.
Tho Institute Scholarships are 
offered yearly to night students of 
high standing, and are mado for one 
yoar only. To ho ollglblo, a student 
must have completed at loast ono yoar 
of tho night school.
According to Doan Tarbolls report, 
tho following havo won Institute 
Scholarships for this year:
Collogo of Flno Arts: David ,T. Cor 
mail, Wllklnshurg, Department of 
Drama; Elmor B. Milligan, Wilkinsburg, Department of Architecture; 
Mary C, Sawders, Pittsburgh, Depart 
mont of Applied Art,
Collogo of EnglnoorJng: Don R.
McBorty, Pittsburgh, Department of 
Mechanical Engineering, James It. 
Power, Emsworth, Department of 
Electrical Engineering; Henry Seidel, 
North Side, Department of Mechanic
al Engineering; Ooorgo T. Pottay, 
Pittsburgh, Department of Civil Enginooring,
Collogo eT Industries: Oliver J.
Brady, McKees Rooks, and Mark W. 
Glasgow, Pittsburgh, Department of 
lillootrloal Equipment find Construc
tion; John P. Ooorfan, Swlssvulo, 
Structural Drafting Course; Martin P. 
Forhea, Pittsburgh, Philip Final!, Me(Continued on Pago Throe)
Research Program 
For Year Announced
Work of Fellows in Mining 
Outlined By Board
The Advisory Board of the Car 
negie Department or Mining, in co
operation with tho U. S. Bureau of 
Mines, has announcod tho following 
research fellowships in coal mining 
for the year 1924-25.
J. N. I-Iayner, who received a B.S, 
defilee in Chemical Engineering from 
tho Rennsselaer Polytechnic in 192<1, 
will work with C. W. Boulon, a senior 
fellow In the Bureau of Mines, to find 
the relative explosibility of different 
sizes of coal dust in the air.
A second recipient of a junior fel
lowship is R. DeChiccis, * who is a 
1924 graduate in Mineral Geology 
from Penn State College. His senior 
fellows are Dr. W. J. McConnell and 
Alden 11. Emery. They will experi
ment on the suitable shales associated 
with bituminous coal measures in 
Western Pennsylvania for rock dust
ing.
Another important research prob
lem which will greatly benefit the 
mining world, is tho cost and meth
ods of applying rock dust in commer
cial mines. Chas. H. Dodge, a 1924 
graduate in Mining Engineering from 
the University of Illinois, will collab
orate on this subject for research 
with C, W, Owings, one of the Bu
reau of Mines investigators.
Efficiency in blasting coal will be 
experimented by B. L. Lubelsky, B.S. 
In Mining Engineering 1924 from the 
I University of Illinois, and .1. E, Tif
fany, his senior fellow,
I F. E. Cash, a Bureau of Mines In(Continued on Pago Two,
W. MARYLAND 
BOWS TO SUPE
RIOR TARTANS
Skibos Run Rough-Shod Over 
Opponents in Annexing 27 
to 0 Victory  Carnegie 
Shows Improved Offensive
NO SERIOUS INJURIES
Carnegie Tech boosted her stock a 
few points higher Saturday by de
feating Western Maryland byi tho 
score of 27 to 0. A team which 
held the Buclcnell Bison to ono touch
down oarlier in the season, a team 
which roltled up 100 points on Fred
erick College and a team having a 
lino which outweighed, but did not 
outplay tho Tartan line could do 
nothing with the Plaid charges of 
Coach Wally Steffen.
Carnegie started with a bang and 
kept banging for 60 minutes of very 
interesting football. Tho visitors 
kicked off to the Plaid and tho first 
play without signals, Ohio throw a 
long pass to Milce Goodwin who was 
stationed far out by tho sidelines and 
who lugged tho loathor for a 40- 
yard gain beforo ho was downed. 
Carnegie recolvod a tough break on 
tho next play whon Boodo fumbled. 
Tho Tartans, hoAvovor, forced Mary
land to kick and then started an of
fensive which culminated In Bastlan sweeping around end >for tho 
first tally. Max also kicked goal.
So powerful was tho Skibos attack 
and so staunch was thoir dofonso 
that tho Greenbacks from the west
ern ond of Maryland only throntoned 
onco. It was tho direct result of a 
fumblod punt which Bastlan tried to 
haull in when II; was over his head, 
a,mi which, was promptly recovered 
by ono of tho Southerners. Aldod by 
a llvo-yard penalty and abottod by 
several successful short passes, tho 
visitors advancod tho ball to Carne
gie's 14-yard Mno. tlToro tho dofonso 
of tho 'Slclbos tightened' and with 
last down and tho goal lino to make, 
Croton nonchalantly dropped I^vng'u 
(Continued on Pago Three.)
Gregarious Grafickers Gravitating
Classy Christmas Card Cam
paign Coming
Tho Graph lea Club, social organiza
tion within the printing department, 
has star tod Its activities with a hang 
with several lmngil, In factthis Ho
mester. To he convinced of this, ono 
need only stroll past Room 118 Indus
tries, where Graph lea meetings are 
hold, any Thursday between 12:45 and 
1:110 p. m. Tho Graphics, will not ho 
responsible for Injuries done to out
siders by flying chairs, books, or to
bacco juice.
It Is expected that many of Car
negie's greatest problems will bo 
solved by this Jlvo-wlro organization 
during tho year, but Doan Morris, who 
addressed tho club at a recent moot
ing, has no intention of asking for a 
leave of absence.
Tho first important oven of tho 
Craphica season was an inspection 
trip and banquet at the Miller Saw 
Trimmer plant. This company makes 
self-feeders for printing presses. It 
has beon hinted that several new 
models will bo placed on the market, 
based on observations of some excep
tionally efficient high speed feeders in 
Pittsburgh.
The members of the club were vi
tally interested in tlie Direct Mail Ad
vertising convention held at the Syria 
Mosque last week. An opportunity 
was afforded for every young printer 
to learn judt what is being done to
ward development of his line through 
out the country. Several of the boys 
(Continued on Page Four.)
FORMER Hl-Y CLUB MEN
TO BAN'QUET WEDNESDAY
On Wednesday evening at six 
oclock at Carnegie Inn, all the for
mer HI-Y men who are at Carnegie 
will hold their annual banquet. Last 
year this was held in the Margaret 
Morrison Cafeteria and it was a splen
did success.
Chief Williams of the Metropolitan 
Association will be the principal 
speaker. Tickets are on sale now 
about the campus for 50 cents.
If you wore a member of a Hi-Y 
Club anywhere while you were in 
high school, join this group at Car
nogio Inn next Wednesday night. 
There's a. good tlmo In store for all.
Y Arranges Substantial Lunches 
At Penn State On Arrival of Special
When, all ye loyal sons and daugh
ters of Carnogio, 500 strong, dismount 
! from your royal coaches at Penn Stato 
Saturday you will find a nice lunch 
awaiting you, close at hand, and at 
very low cost.
Yes, our Y. M. C. A. has been busy 
again. Realizing the limitations of 
the restaurant service at Penn State,
and that hungry Carnegians wont do 
much cheering, Mr. Davis has arrang
ed this lunch through the Penn Stato 
Association.
Everyone ' who accompanies tho 
team to this game is going to be treat
ed' royally; there is no doubt abot that. 
Now that the lunch question is set(Continued on Page Four)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1924
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.______________________
Entered in the Postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter. 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH..................................................................................................Schenley 9122
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
fc\ D. ROSSINI T. J. DEMPSEY E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF 
Sara Mae Everett, D. A. Gardner, L. H. Harris, Harriet Merwin,
A. F. Carson.
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS...........................................................................................Schenley 9102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING .......................................................................................................Schenley 9070
V. B. SMITH.....................................................................................................Franklin 5547-J
REPORTERS
Estelle Garibaldi, Wilma Stiner, Carbl Foight, Aimee Pharo, E. G.
Johnson, K. Fulmer, F. M. McClelland, C. A. Lundquist, R. L. Lepper, M.
HollLnshead, W. Fencil, W. Senkus, D. K. Mims.
A. E. KROGH................................................................................................ALUMNI EDITOR
Assistants....................................Rosemary McCambridge, E. E. Smith, J. M. Goss
J. CHRISTOFF........................................................................................ATHLETIC EDITOR
Assistants................Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A. C. Foller McWilliams
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON....................................................................................................Schenley 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER.......................................................................................................Schenley 9122
CIRCULATION MANAGER
D. MOSKOVITZ.............................-...........................................................................Hazel 1122
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, R. L. Sandrock, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, Lee C. Osborn, J. 
M. Airgood, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerle, J. P. Strizalc, Lois Snyder, A. Per. reton, G. H. Carl.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the student 
post office before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office hoursDaily 12-30- 
1:20.
The Volcano is very disappointed 
in the school spirit manifested by 
the student body. Surely a game 
like that of last Saturday must have 
inspired many brilliant thoughts yet 
not one has been submitted to the 
Volcano editor. Such a blase atti\
New Constitution is JUNior-freshman party J 
Proposed For ThistleUN ior-orfe morrison I[ FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE j
I Thq much-heraldod M. {M. C. C. Our subjot this morning, brethron 
I Juuior-Freshman Halloween party and sistren (is that right?) will bo 
: will take place tomorrow (Wednesou the subject: Remember it's Car*
j day) afternoon at 4:30. All the negle, not "Tech. 
j spooks that were found lurking in i A great many agencies, inside and 
i the basements of (ho various buildoutside the school havo thrown thoir 
A new constitution for the Thistle j ings were unearthed and hidden in j efforts whole heartodly into tho
Positions on Board Are to Be 
Competitive
tude may be truly collegiate but It ]ins been drawn and will be present-1 the corners ol the Margaret Morrison j campaign. Wo must especially BUME
tlumks to the daily papers for tho
visible at the manner in which they have respondplan, positions on the board will be! mysterious hour of 4:30 when tho j ed to tho campus sentiment. Inmost
competitive instead of elective as beJuniors, in accordance with their an-: cases, the editors and their assistwont run a colyum.
Like tlie old Bingville Bugle this 
colyum can not be maintained by 
Hot Air and Cold Potatoes. Having 
eaten in the Commons we are well 
acquainted with; tlie former and ad
mit that we frequently have recourse 
to the latter ourselves.
We always thought that the only j 
enterprise running successfully on | Sec. 1. 
such a basis was the Commercial Deknown as
ed to the board, and the Board of i Recreation Hall. 
Student Managers. Under this new | They will become
fore. The proposed constitution is as 
follows: 
partment but since being registered 
for a course with that division we 
are wont to scout this rumor. Al
ready, within the first half of the 
semester we have been asked for ad
vice in financing a concern and are 
not downcast despite the E plus we 
received for a solution.
THE ALMA MATER
A new time for the playing of tlie Alma Mater at the football 
games has been begun this year; namely, between halves.^ This is 
a fine idea, for there is none of the edging toward the exits which 
always looked bad when the song was played at the end of the game.
On the other hand, it is played too fast. The Alma Mater is 
supposed to be a solemn thing, played with grace and dignity and 
typifying the deepest feeling toward Carnegie Tech. The way it is 
played now detracts from this idea. It is played so fast that it is 
impossible to sing, and make it sound like anything; while if it is 
not sung, it sounds like a jazz piece.
It need not be played so slowly that it drags, but neither should 
it be played at the present express train speed. There is a happy 
medium which should be reached in order that the Alma Mater may 
be most effective. \
PENN STATE
The longest trip of the year is coming this Saturday. The team 
goes out into the mountains and meets a powerful foe on his own 
grounds before a monster crowd of his supporters. It is Pennsylva
nia Day at State when we play them, and their Alumni will be out 
in force. Our team has shown such decided improvement since the 
beginning of the year that it is not beyond the grounds of possibility 
that we will add another skin to our trophy room.
But the team cannot do it alone. It needs your support. Every
one knows how we held the Panther when it seemed that it was im
possible. And who would say that the cheering was not directly re
sponsible for it. The Lion will be even harder to hold. On the home 
field before all the home rooters, a defeat would be unbearable. We 
can expect State to play over their heads to win for their supporters 
next Saturday.
Every Carnegie man wants the team to win next Saturday. It 
can win if it is properly supported. If we have enough rooters up 
there to cheer on the boys when the path gets rocky we may come 
out on top. Every student can play a part in trying to obtain that 
yictory. Its our job to win as much as the team. But you cant 
(hejp by staying home and listening to the returns over the radio. 
Youve got to be up there and lend your voice to the cause; its little 
-enough to do, but it may mean the winning or losing of the game. 
:.Six-twenty isnt much. You can beg, borrow* or get it somehow be
fore Saturday. Think of what you will miss if the team wins and 
you are not up there; and if they lose, and you were not there, it 
should hurt somewhere away down deep. That special is running 
ispvepj.al for you, Carnegie man. See that youre on it when it leaves.
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4
Pep Rally ............................................................I1:3(3 AM., Gymnasium
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5
De la Mare LecturcJohn Keats..................................5:00 P. M., Union
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8
Chapel.............................................................................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
De la Mare LectureLCraftsmenship in Verse........5:00 P. M., Union
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7
De la Mare LectureMagie in Poetry......................5:00 P. M., Union
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6
FootballCarnegie-Penn State.......................................-...State College, Pa.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10
PlayThe Critic..................................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11 
Holiday...................................:............................................................Armistice Day
After many delays, for which the 
printer was conveniently responsi
ble, the Back Number of the Puppet 
appeared last Tuesday. For some 
time we had suspected that the 
Puppet was a back number, but we 
never expected such a brazen ad
mission from that publication. There 
were several cartoons we remember 
seeing back in 1922'. However, the 
exchanges were very good.
If we ever break into professional 
journalism to assume the responsibil
ity1 of editing the McKees Rocks 
Bludgeon, there is one evil we shall 
efface if we consume our last Eversharp lead doing it. Too long have 
the -writers of cross-word puzzles 
prospered at the expence of their in
nocent victims. How many good and 
honest citizens have been brought to 
their doom by this insidious evil?
Only last night the editor himself 
almost succumbed to the spell of a 
cross-word puzzleso mild a diver
sion and yet portending such catas
trophe.- The editor, being too poor 
to biuy a paper except on Tuesdays 
and Thursdays, set out to visit Jerry 
Jerry buys a paper on Wednesdays 
and Fridaysto brush up on the 
doing of the week. By pterusing such 
authorities as Andy Gump, Abe Kabbible, and Jiggs lie quiclclyi gets a 
comprehensive grasp of politics, the 
market and society news on short 
order.
As our hero (the editor) entered 
the room lie -was quite surprised to 
find Jerry's usally amiable counten
ance screwed up by an Immense 
frown. He was furiously devouring 
(metaphorically*) an immense dic
tionary while he made fantastic scrlbblings upon a checker board like pic
ture on the back of tlie Pittsburgh 
Squeeze.
Go with four letters, was his 
greeting, it begins with D. Mere 
Jerry began a furious seanah through 
all the Da in his Webster's Una
bridged.
Our ihero quickly hastened to his 
side. What was this he saw? A 
cross word puzzle! An idea flashed 
through his head! "Depart, he sug
gested. r rasR
The dictionary flew shut as Jerry 
leapt up to embrace our hero. Quick
ly then he fitted depart into the 
aliened space. There were two let
ters too many!
Six men had to ait on Jerry until 
the State Hospital representatives 
arrived to carry him off raving mad
ly. The editor is slowly convalesc
ing and states that he has forgiven 
Jerry.
By way of securing more contri
butions to the Volcano the editor 
offers a precancelled two-cent stamp 
to the student submitting tlie best 
description of what he. would have 
done had ho been Wally Steffen (or 
Hugo Bezdek) when . . . 'Same should 
be in Tartan box before succeeding 
Thursday noon written; preferably 
in English
Y. M. C. A.
The Y has at last pushed the enrolllment over the goal. The work of 
the classman and the committee 
handling the drive is greatly appre
ciated by the authorities of the Y 
they deserve considerable credit 
for their worthy efforts in accom
plishing their feat. With a firm 
financial backing the Y can ad
vance its aids and activities in such 
a way. that they will have a definite 
effect upon the students. Pledges 
are still coming in and the member
ship numbers about 600; anyone 
who has not turned in their pledge 
and still wishes to do so can turn 
it in at the Y" office.
The Y on our campus has step
ped out into higher circles due to 
the fact that two men directly con
nected with our association hold re
sponsible offices in higher Y" organ
izations. Professor Dibble, chairman 
of the Committee of Management of 
the Carnegie Y is now a member 
of the State Commission which has 
all the Ys in Pennsylvania under 
its guidance.
Cy Hoenniger, pneaident of the 
Carnegie Y, is also president of 
the Pennsylvania Associations, and 
attended the Middle Atlantic Council 
held at Harrisburg last week. We 
are proud to have such representa
tives as these two men.
Arrangements have been 
with tlie Penn State Y
'band and the rooters.
The Hi Y" banquet to be held 
Wednesday night, is going to be 
quite an affair. Chief Williams from 
the Metropolitan Y" will be there 
and Rev. Dr. Samuel Goldenson will 
be the speaker. Tickets are on sale 
at the office and from reports you 
want to get them early because they 
only have a limited supply.
We are not going to tell you what 
is going to happen butKEEP DE
CEMBER 6 OPEN.
sh ma nppntyI occypgj
wclgypc sapvypcnap
ADVERT BEAND GET RESULTS
ARTICLE I 
Name
This publication shall bo 
The Thistle.
ARTICLE II 
Object
Sec. 1. It is the purpose of this 
publication to carry to the student 
body, faculty and general public a 
summary of the years work and of 
the college life at the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology.
ARTICLE III
Publication
Sec. 1. The Thistle shall be pub
lished once during the school year.
ARTICLE IV 
Staff
Sec. 1. The Staff shall consist of the 
following departments: Editorial and 
Business.
Sec. 2. The Editorial Staff shall con
sist of the following members: Editorin-chief, an Associate Editor, an Art 
Editor, an Athletic Editor, an Activi
ties Editor, a Senior Editor aud a 
Night School Editor.
Sec. 3. The Business staff shall con
sist of the following members: Busi
ness Manager, a Treasurer, an Adver
tising Manager, and a S'ales Manager.
Sec. 4. The responsible party of this 
publication shall be the Editor-in-chief.
Sec. 5. Each staff member may have 
a corps of assistants who shall be 
termed Staff Assistants."
ARTICLE V 
Duties of Staff Members
Sec. 1. The duties of the staff mem
bers shall be aa outlined in tlio by
laws.
ARTICLE VI 
Board of Control
Sec. 1. The Editor-in-chief, tho As
sociate Editor, the Buainesa Manag-' 
and the Treaaurer shall form a Board 
of Control.
ARTICLE VII 
Choosing the Staff
Sec. 1. The retiring Board of Con
trol shall elect the Editor-in-chief and 
Business Manager for the next yoar 
and they in conjunction with the re
tiring Board shall aeloct on tho rocommendatlons of tho rotlring ataff 
members tho romaindor of the ataff. 
All selections mado are subject to the 
approval of the Student Council.
'Sec. 2. Any vacancy occuring on 
tho ataff during the acliool year shall 
bo filled by a aelectlon made by tho 
Board of Control subject to tho ap
proval of tho Student. Council.
ARTICLE VIII 
Eligibility
Sec. 1. All staff members shall be 
Juniora enrolled In a degree course 
in the Carnogie Institute of Technol
ogy.
ARTICLE IX 
Dismissal from Staff
Sec. 1. Any ataff member may be 
diamiased by tho Student Council on 
the recommendation ol! tho Board of 
Control.
ARTICLE X 
Finances
Sec. 1. All profits of the publication, 
over and above, twenty-five percont. 
of tho total amount of money aocurod 
from paid advertising ahnll bo turned 
over to tho Student Council.
Sec. 2. All profits retained by the 
publication may be spoilt for tho 
benefit of tho publication at the dis
cretion of the Board of Control.
Sec. 3. All deficita are to be met by 
the Student Council.
ARTICLE XI 
Awards
Sec. 1. All awards of insignia shall 
be in accordance with the rulea of 
the Student Council.
ARTICLE XII
Amendments
Sec. 1. This conatitution may be
nual custom, to frolic with tho Frosh 
men. Thero will be oats and fun ga
lore, becauso the committee of Jun
iors, headed by Mary Hill, has worked 
out an interesting menu aud some 
novel stunts.
R. H. WRIGHT TO PRESENT
PAPER AT A. I. E. E. MEETING
The meeting will be hold Tuesday, 
November 4, 1924, at 7:30 p. in., in 
Room No. 11. Machinery Hall.
The subject of Mr. Wrights paper 
will be Electric Drive for Rolling 
Mills. Particular attention will bo 
given to large reversing motors and 
methods of speed control. Tho paper 
will be supplemented with lantern 
slides illustrating various applications 
of electrical machines in this industry.
Mr. Wright, who is a General Engi
neer of the Westlngliouse Manufac
turing Company, has had a wide expe
rience in the steel mill industry and 
will have much information to give 
on the subject.
All students and faculty interested 
should be present at this meeting.
V. Swartz"How does the fotball 
team got clean after a game?
Bill Slee"Why, didnt you know 
they have a scrub team?
amended by the Board of Control upon 
the approval of the Student Council.
BY-LAWS
ARTICLE I
Organization
Sec. 1. The Editor-in-chief shall bo 
the head of the organization.
Sec. 2. There shall ho an Editorial 
Department and a Business Depart
ment, the responsible heads of which 
shall be respectively the Associate 
Editor and the Buslnoss Manager.
ARTICLE II 
Duties of the Staff Members
Sec. 1. Tho Editor-in-chief 8hall have 
final authority in all mattora of policy. 
He almll call and preside at all joint 
mootings of tho Buslnos and Editorial 
ataffs. It almll bo his duty to Issue a 
yoar boolc which will bo both credit
able to tho institution and to tho 
Junior Claaa.
S'e'c. 2. Tho Aasociato Editor Shall 
be tho responsible person In the Ed Itorlal Department. Ho, in conjunction 
with tho Edltor-In-chlof, almll appor
tion tho editorialwork among tho staff 
members.
See. 3. Tho Buslnoaa Manager shall 
bo tho head of the Buainesa Depart
ment and shall bo roaponalblo to tho 
Editor-in-chief for the successful per
formance of Jill business transactions. 
He, In conjunction with the Edltor-In 
chief shall make all contracts for this 
publication.
Soc. 4. Tho Troasuror shall receive 
and doposlt all incoming money and 
shall pay all pjopor bills. The Books 
shall bo, kept, by him and he shall bo 
responsible to tlie Buainesa Managor 
for thoir proper balancing. Ho shall 
make monthly reports to the Student 
Council.
Sec. fi. Tho Advertising Managor 
shall bo in direct charge of obtaining 
advertisements for tho publication. I To 
shall bo responsible to the l.hialnoaa 
Managor for the successful perform
ance of his duties,
Soc. G. Tho Salos Manager shall be 
In direct charge of tho sale of the 
publication. Ho shall be directly re
sponsible for the successful perfor 
anco of his duty to tho Business Mali
nger.
Sec. 7. Tho duties of tho Art Edi
tor, .the Athletic Editor, tho Senior 
Editor, tho Activities Editor and the 
Night School Editor shall bo deter
mined by the Editor-in-chief and the 
Associate Editor and may be changed 
from time totime depending on tlie 
circumstances.
VOTE NOVEMBER FOURTH
We submit a resume of the three 
party platforma, that the voter may 
best decide upon their respective mer
its.
RepublicanWe pledge:
1. Rigid economy in government.
2. Progressive tax, reduction 
through tax reform.
3. Reorganization of executive de
partments.
4. Better organization of civil 
service.
5. Permanent court of internationowned and manned by Americans.
15. For a comprehensive survey 
of conditions in the Colorado aud 
methods of control.
16. Pledge to meet the problems 
of the future affecting the care of 
the wounded and disabled in a spirit 
of liberality.
17. Again pledge for conservation, 
universal mobilization of all citizensand resources in war time, better na
turalization laws, negro -federal antilynching law, law enforcement, and
al justice but no membership in the unyielding devotion to the constituleagueindependence without indej tion.
Cy Hoenniger has just returned 
from Harrisburg, where he has been 
attending, as Carnegies delegate, the 
tliree-day convention of the Middle At
lantic Field Council, the College-Y. M. 
C. A. organization.
Cy is treasurer of this organization 
and president of the Western Penn
sylvania Field Council, a subdivision 
of the larger council.
At the convention at Harrisburg, 
delegates from the student Y. M. C. A. 
organizations met to discuss and ar
range the program for college Y. M. 
C. A. groups of all the Middle Atlantic 
states. Plana were made for the holdference.
6. Steadfast refusal to consider 
cancellation of foreign debtsthe 
funding of them, as in the case of 
Englands.
7. A protective tariff to extend 
needed protection to our productive
Democratic PartyWe pledge:
1. Honest government.
2. Tax on commodities entering 
customs houses' that will promote ef
fective competition, protest against 
monopoly and at the same time pro
duce a fair revenue to support the
industries, with due regard to all sec-! government, a graduated tax on intions, agriculture and industrial, I comes in proportion to benefits they
8. To take whatever steps neces
sary to bring back the balanced con
ditions between agriculture, industry
enjoy and their ability to pay, op 
poses sales tax.
3. Co-operation in agriculture to
and labor, tariff, credit, lower freight restore European market, lower tariff, 
rates, better co-operative marketing, readjust and lower both railroad and
9. A continuation of federal cowater rates, credits,
operation with the states In highway | 4. Eah-Cummins law to bo
building. j written so that its purpose material10. A federal amendment for the | ize.
child labor law, better working condij 5. Operation of Muscle Shoals, 
tions for women and children, better 6. Stability to Industry, commerce 
vocational education. and finance through bettor adminlsants are patiently going to tlie extra 
work involved in using Carnegie in 
the headlines, rather than tho much 
more conveniently fitting Tech. 
There is even a rumor about that tho 
manufacturers of a certain brand' of 
ice cream are considering a change 
of trade name, a rumor which we 
hasten to deny. It is tnuo, however, 
that nearly all agencies in dose 
touch! with the school have recog
nized the justice of the request and 
have accordingly taken action.
On tho other hand, thoro are many 
here on the campus, who are abso
lutely indifferent to tho change. 
Those are the ones that are always 
the most difficult to get anything 
done with. Arguments gets one no
where. They agree perfectly with 
the reasoning offered, then either 
say: Yah, or Yes, but its so 
mulch easier to say Teohy let it go. 
What is the difference? The last 
part of that is not a question; it is 
a statement. Further argumentation 
avails nothing. Its too muich trouble 
to take.
Tn the hope, however, * that soniQ 
may read this, who are still opvan 
to conviction of the sort that leads 
to action, we will quote to tho letter 
received from tho St. Louis Clan:
"------------- regarding the name Car
negie instead of 'Techthere Is no 
argument. Tn St. Louis wo hear of 
a hundred Techs, until the word be
comes an earaore. Wo have been 
and always will refer to tho college
as Carnegie as that is the only wny 
to distinguish us from the grade 
schoolsmanual training schools, etc.
Keep up the fight for Carnegie 
St. Louis is with you.
On tlio huiclc page one may read 
about the celebration the Alumni in 
-Cincinnati had. Did they toll Cin
cinnati about "Tech 6. Pitt, 0? 
They did not It would luuvo meant 
nothing. It has boon said before and 
will bear saying again that we are 
proud of being a technical school. 
Carnogio stands second1 to none in 
scholarship, sportsmanship and alum
ni. That, however, is only an added 
reason for insisting upon the dis
tinctive name, Carnogie.
Tiiis campaign can not bo put over 
by tho Carnegie Tartan alone, nor 
can it bo put over by the Alumni 
Office. It will need tho support of 
us all. Tho campaign is well) under 
way now, yet we still seo signs 
about the campus telling of "Tech 
nlghtt, Tech Field, "Tech Dormi
tories, "Tech this and "Tech that. 
Those signs are made by students. 
Can we not get together and pull in 
unison for the distinctive name for 
our Alma Mater. Now is our oppor
tunity. Alumni are powerful factors 
in any school, but thoy are liolploss 
in 1 a. case like this. Th students, 
and only alll tho students can put this 
over. It may mean an extra syllable 
to speak, write or print, here and 
tliore. It may oven involve the use 
of a little more paper now and then 
but that is not any more than we 
will all -willingly contribute For the 
Good of Carnogie.
ing of a large co-ed convention in the 
made ; near future, 
to feed the j Mr. Davis, of the local Y. M. C. A., 
They have . considers Carnegie very fortunate in 
planned for a big crowd and we dont having an officer in the council. , Some 
want to disappoint them, so let us  of the finest men in scores of large 
all plan on getting down there; eastern schools comprise the organisome way. \ zation.
11. Prompt and efficient transpor
tation at the lowest rate with good 
service, conaolidatlon of the railroads 
into fewer aystems, collective bar
gaining.
12. Republican party atanda now 
as always as against all attempts to 
put government Into business.
13. Government to bring full light 
of publicity on the coal situation.
14. Strong and permanent mertration of the Federal Reserve Sy.s 
tom.
7. To carry on reclamation.
8. Public control and conservation 
of all natural resources.
9. Improvement in highways.
10. An American manned, 
and owned merchant marine.
13. Status of the Union shall be 
preaerved.
14. Man power and resources! 
drafted In case of war-world diaarmament.
15. World Court and League of Na
tions.
16. Deep waterway from Great 
Lakes to Gulf.
17. Collective bargaining and pro
tection of child labor.
LaFolletteWe pledge:
1. Use of power of the govern
ment to crush private monopoly.
,2. Freedom of apeecli and press.
3. Government ownership and con
trol of national resources.
4. Surtaxes on swollen incomes, 
excess profits taxes, repeal of sales 
taxes.
5. Reconstruction of the Federal 
Reserve and Federal farm loan sys
tems to provide for direct public con 
trol of tho nations money and credit.
fi. Guarantee the right to organize 
and bargain collectively.
7. Creation of a government mar
keting corporation.
8. Protection and aid of co-operalive enterprise by national and state 
legislation,
9. Repeal of the JUah-Cummlns law, 
public ownership of railroads.
10. Abolition of tyranny and usur
pation of courts, abolition of Injunc
tions in labor disputes, election of 
federal judges without party, desig
nate for limited terma.
11. Prompt ratification of child la
bor amendment, protection of women 
and children.
12. Deep waterway from Great 
built I Lakes to sea.
I 13. Active foreign policy, revision
FIRST SMOKER OF
YEAR HELD BY C. M. E. S.
(Continued From Pago Ono) 
one of tho boat mechanical engineers 
In this part of tho country, lio can re
late a good story with tolling offoct, 
at tho right moment. Prof. Blalsdoll, 
who had tho floor, lator In tho even
ing, gave a few remarks, In which he 
stressed the prime Importanco of tho 
spirit of good fellowship among all 
tho Mochanlcala, In tho school. Tho 
substance of tho professor's romarka 
was, what is tho uso of going to col
logo if you do not form a lot of last
ing friendships. If you want book 
learning, join tho T. G. S. If you 
want an education, go to tlio boat; all 
around enginooiing collogo, Carnogio 
Tech. Jerry Jarema spoke quite 
pointedly about; the value of tho C. 
M. E. 8'., to tho mochanteals, Tho 
proaont Seniors are tho most ardent 
supporter of tljo society now, and 
It la up to tho Juniors and Sophs to 
work up steam enough to carry the 
Hocloty along after Its present spon
sors leave school. Several years ago 
the C. M. 13, S. was the strongoat and 
moat active student -engineering so
ciety at. Carnegie, It; has witnessed a 
donline Is tho past few yearn, duo to 
the faot that the lowor olnsiimon wore 
not kept Interested in Its affairs.
The Prosonl; ollloor intend to run a 
real live meeting, at least once a 
month, at which the soft pedal will 
bo' put ou subjects of purely tech
nical naturo. Tho ontortnlnmont will 
bo varied, so that' tho Interest of the 
student will ho kept right straight 
through tho meeting. Whon mootings 
are announced It Is up to every Sophomoro and Junior Mechanical to alt up 
aud take notlco, When mooting night 
comes, bo there, Instead of marking 
tlmo at 50 Forboa street. Seniors do 
not nood much urging, aa thoy havo 
boon vory responsive to tho calls for 
meolinga. Lot spirit of brothorhood 
which was oxtanf at tho smoker be 
continued throughout the entire yoar 
As Mochanlcala, let ua hang together, 
aa Prof. Trinka puta It, rather than 
hang alone. With the proper amount 
of pulling together, wo can make tho 
C. M. E. S. an organization to bo 
proud of. The name of Mechanical, 
will be ono regarded with the propor 
reapect, when we show tho Bchool 
that inatead of being a bunch of dead 
wood, wo are real, honeat to goodnoaa 
live oaka. Leta go, Mechanicals!
RESEARCH PROGRAM
FOR YEAR ANNOUNCED
tor conditions and groater ofllcioncy 
in mining operationa. With thla vlow 
In mind, great advances will be made 
In mining which will bo very boueficlal to tho countrya welfare.
PSYCHOLOGY TEST RESULTS
ARE GIVEN OUT
(Continuod From Page Two.) 
any other moasuro of mental quality 
now available. Uaod conaorvativoiy 
and in conjunction with other knowl
edge1 concerning tho student they 
have a vory dofinlto value.
FOUND AND LOST
A gold pondi, of tho stylo of a 
fountaln,pon, havlng two partaa cap 
and barrei and whlcli could not he 
mlatakon hocauso of Ita odd design, 
has dlsappoarod freni tho Eloctrlcal 
Laboratori In Machlnory Hall. Tho 
ownor, a night; stiulont, valuos Ilio 
pondi as a glft of sentlmontal qualIty, and Just mlssed It Monday ovonIng, Octobor 18. Tho Under la requostod l.o send II, to Mr. Lieto, lOloctiical Engineering Dopt. caro School 
Mali.
Fou,nd-Tn Carnoglo tudont sectlon 
al; Pltt game, a fountaln ph. Ownor 
wlll plesso loavo doscrlpllon at Tar
lali ofllco.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTI6ERS
First Church of Christ,
Scientist
Clydo Street, near Fifth Avenuo 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 I. M. 
Wednesday, 8 I*. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
Grace Reformed Church
Dlthrldqc and Bayard Streetu 
Dr. Frederick C. Nau, Paotor.
Blblo Class ...............................9:45
Sermons for Students at 11 A.M. 
Lbaguo of Youth,at 6:30 P. M.
chant marine, built by Americana, I the Constitution.
11. Increased salaries for poatal of Versailles Treaty, firm treaty
employes. j agreements to outlaw war, abolish
12. Respect and enforcement of i conscription, drastically reduce landj air and naval armaments.
(Continued From Page 1) 
ve3tIgator, will undertake with Ed
win H. Johnson, who received his 
B.S. degree in Mining Engineering 
from Carnegie Tech in 1922,,the prpblem of underground loading devices 
and modified methoda of mining.
Mark S. Downes, RS!PO 1924 Mechan
ical Engineering, Carnegie Tech and 
I-Ionry Shore, B.S., 1924, Electrical 
Engineering, Masaachuaetts Tech, will 
experiment on friction loases in mine 
oar truck with their senior fellow, 
M. D. Hersey.
If researeli on the low temperature 
carbonization of bituminous coal is i 
successful, much will be done toward I 
smoke prevention. Lewis C. Karrlclc, 
B.S. 1917; E.M. 1922, University of 
Utah and J. D. Davis, or the Bureau 
of Mines will undertake this prob
lem,
The above fellowships are financed 
by Carnogie Tech, Hillman Coal and 
Coke Co,, Mne Car and Bearing Co., 
Pittsburgh Coal Co., Inland Collieries 
Co., Pittsburgh Terminal Coal Co., 
and Mine Safety Appllanco Co.
The research work, done in mining 
la carried on by Carneglo Tech in e 
operation with tho U; S, Bureau of 
Mines. The work baa been devoted 
to various problems of coal mining 
and the utilization of fuel. Graduates 
of approved Institutions are eligible 
to tlie fellowahips.
Carnegie Tech selected the fellowa, 
the Bureau of Mines provides the 
laboratory facilities, and the Advisory 
Board determines what problems are 
to be undertaken and it also pub
lishes the reports. The object of this 
research work is to bring about betAFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbes
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
The place where all good fel
lows meet and enjoy a good 
meal.
Special 35c plate dinner, in
cluding dessert.
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
TARNSF
~tfte master 
dmwhtf)pendi "
17 loiulnall <talar
Damon
Wllat was tliu name of that pencil 
IrofCHiior William waa recom
mending thla morning?"
Pyztius
'Eldoradomy boy, Eldoradol 
Just think of a fabled land of 
caae and happinesswhere no one 
flunk/where penda are the magic 
atlekfi of achievement. Then you 
can never forget it."

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
I
IPLAID ATHLETICS
*
i4
---------------j
STATE GAME ONE OF 
TARTANS BIGGEST
Game of Two Years Ago 
Was a Thriller  Keen 
Battle Anticipated
Two years ago the Carnegie Tech 
team traveled to State College to en
gage in combat with the Nitany Lion. 
From this band of warriors the faces 
of several of the regulars were 
missing because of injuries sustained 
in the two previous encounters. 
State College that -year had one of 
the best teams in its history, boast
ing of such luminaries as Wilson, 
Palm, Frank, Bedenk and McMahon. 
Against this strong aggregation the 
Tartans were compelled' to play 
weakened team which gave such a 
good account of itself that the finali 
score was 10 to 0 with State very 
fortunate to make even that.
A big factor in that days showing 
was the cheering of the Carnegie co
horts which came to witness the 
fray. They actually poured into the 
town. Trains were so full that even
BOWLING SEASON FOR 
GIRLS TO OPEN SOON
At last something definite has start
ed in the realm of girls athletics. 
Bowling is about to become a reality. 
This has proved to be one of the most 
popular girls sports in past years, and 
from all indications will be even more 
popular this year.
Practice is scheduled to start to
morrow afternoon, but in order to 
make certain the girls should watch 
the bulletin boards for announce
ments. Once started, bowling will be 
held every Monday and Wednesday 
afternoons from 2:30 to 5:30 p. m. at 
the K. of C. bowling alleys, corner of 
Fifth and Eellefield, and will continue 
for about six weeks. Class teams will 
be chosen which will compete for the 
championship at the end of the sea
son. Athletic points will be awarded 
to those who go to practice regularly, 
as well as to those who make the 
teams. About seventy-five girls have 
already signed up, which promises 
some keen competition.
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
PLEBES TIE WITH 
CALIFORNIA, 7-7
STUDENTS SHOULD SEND
IN NOTRE DAME RES
ERVATIONS AT ONCE
; Moorehead Makes Brilliant 
70-Yard RunFumbles 
Are Costly
WHAT IS IT WORTH TO YOU?
Looking at it from a pecuniary viewpoint, is it worth $6.19 to you to 
have the Tartans defeat Penn State for the first time in the history of our 
school? That small sum of money that you, individually, would spend ou
this trip, the only big one of the football season, might mean the difference i ____________
between victory or defeat for our warriors. I ,  , _
The psychological advantage of a team playing on its home grounds j The Carnegie Plebes played Callcarinot be underestimated. This is plainly shown by the fact that when we fornia State Normal in a 7 to 7 tie 
went to Little Washington we were defeated; when Wash-Jeif traveled to 
New York, Lafayette trimmed them; when Lafayette went to Philadelphia,
Penn in turn licked them. We would place every one of these four teams 
pretty nearly on a parand in each case the home team won.
We know there will be quite a number of students who will drive over
land to State College next Saturday; still others will go via the "Bum
mers Special. But this will be a drop in the bucket compared to the num
ber that will go if a special train is chartered. And we cannot have a 
special train unless 500 preliminary tickets are sold in advance.
There will be a crowd of 30,000 enthsuiastic supporters cheering the 
Penn State team on to victory. Cannot Carnegie have at least 1,000?
The answer is, BUY PRELIMINARY TICKETS. And buy them AT 
ONCE!
The Womens Athletic Association 
will have its annual dance in the 
Union Friday evening, November the 
21st. The Techrons have been en-stahding room was at a premium. .* A  u-i . z1 gaged for the occasion and plans areAutomobiles were filled to capacity * J  ......................... ' m .
and came from all directions. Carne
gie spirit held sway. Those who 
could not borrow, beg or steal the 
amount for the train fare managed 
to borrow, beg and steal ride8 along 
the highways and byways and strange 
as it may seem they all arrived to 
see the game.
Last year there was no game with 
State ColHege due to some complica
tions on the schedules. Many were 
disappointed, not only because there 
was no game, but also that the trip 
was one which .;can be appreciated; 
at all times. Those who made the 
trip know this to be true, those who 
have not, have a treat in store for 
themselves.
This year our team once more mi
grates to State College to engage 
the Lion in his den. State College 
this year has as good a team as they 
have had in the last two years, but 
that can also be said of the Tartans, 
who have ably demonstrated the fact 
throughout the season. In addition, 
the Skibos are going to fight as they 
never fought before to remove the 
sting of the last defeat and to set 
precedent.
True, State^ollege lost to Georgia 
Tech and, Syracuse this season, but 
these defeats were not due to the 
fact that they were outplayed but 
rather to untimely fumbles and for
tunes of the game which the oppo
nents did not permit to go unnoticed. 
The truth is that State outplayed 
every opponent this year. Last Sat
urday 'State showed some of its real 
form when they defeated the crack 
Annapolis Naval Academy team 6 to 
0 in a bitterly contested battle.
A glance at State's record so far 
this season shows;
State.................47Lebanon Valley.. 3
State-------.51N. Car. State____ 0
Sttate . 26Gettysburg ........... 0
State................13Georgia Tech--------15
State........... 6Syracuse ................10
State................ 6Navy ......................... 0
It will be a gala occasion and 
everyone is going to be there. The 
trip is going to delight all. The 
game will produce thrills galore and 
the entertainment after the game 
willi be of such a caliber that any
one missing it will be everlastingly 
sorry.
B sure and B there!
nearing completion which will make 
this dance one of the really big af
fairs of the season, and especially one 
you wont want to miss. Watch the 
Tartan later for details concerning 
this.
VOL.X.I7CVOA
We do not know how the elections will result today, but wo believe 
that if the Skibos win from Penn State Saturday the student body will 
whole-heartedly support the following ticket:
PresidentWally Steffen.
Vice PresidentBob Waddell.
Governor of PennsylvaniaDr. Marks.
Mayor of PittsburghBert Munhall.
Presidents CabinetNewman, Kristof, Bastian, Hable, Yoder, Beede, 
Anderson, Manby and Wertenberger.
U. S. SenatorsGoodwin, Cass.
U. S. RepresentativesMefort, Donohoe, Harmon.
Election ClerksPolitician A. Mut Molirman.
Politician Tiny Guthrie.
?Justice of the "PieceChalupa.
*Notewe say "Piece because Chalupa is a good singer.
Several weeks ago at the W. A. A. 
party Miss Spurrier awarded athletic 
pins to the girls who up-to-date have 
earned the required number of ath
letic points to obtain these pins. The 
engraved pins are awarded to those 
who have over 75 and less than 100 
points, while the plain pins are award
ed to those having over 50 and less 
than 75 points. The final awards are 
sweaters to those having 100 points 
or over. Only one girl in school at 
present possesses a sweater with a 
plaid "C, and that is Margaret Markey, a Senior in M. M. C. C., who has 
the honor of being the first girl to 
ever obtain a sweater in her Junior 
year.
Those who received the engraved 
pins were: Geraldine Corbett, Maude 
Cook, Helen Daugherty, Margaret. 
Markey, Rose Moren, Mary Stuempfle, 
and Margaret Taylor.
Those who received the plain pins 
were: Charlotte Durie, Dorothy
Cook, Louise Ely, Beryl Rankin, Ber
nice Rentz, and Dorothy Schmallhorst.
W. Harris"Jim, do you know Lin
colns Gettysburg Address?
J. DunnNo, I thought he lived at 
the White House.
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School
Not a public dance hall.
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
THER SPORTS
While football necessarily occupies the center of the stago just now wo 
must not forget that there are other branches of athletics at Carnegie, and 
that the boys out for those other sports are upholding the honor and tra
ditions of Carnegie. DyIceman and his men, coached by Guy I-Ialferty, are 
going better than last year In cross country. Tho Freshmen give promise 
of adding several first class men to the varsity next year. The rlfio team, 
sanctioned by the Athletic Council last year, will open their season tho 
week of December 8, and the men are now out for practice under tho man
agement of J. Martin Kelly. Boxing gains headway each day, and is prac
tically assured now. The candidates are enthusiastic, and we feel fiuro that 
their interest will not be dampened by a few "socks on the jaw. Thoro has 
been some talk of a wrestling toam. We do not see why Carneglo could not 
have as many branches of sport as any other large college. Wo havo moro 
than fifteen hundred men from whom to draw, and that should be enough. 
Lets continue to put Carnegie on the map athletically.
game on Saturday morning, starting 
Fathers Day with an even break.
Both teams entered the field short
ly before ten thirty. The stands wore 
almost filled on the Woodlawn aklo, 
the morning being a great time for 
such a game, the weather conditions 
ideal.
In tho first half the Plebes out
played California Normal, threaten
ing thoir goal line several times, but 
each time the California team hold 
and kicked out of danger*. Both 
teams played brilliantly at times, but 
tliere were several fumbles and much 
ragged footiballi. The) game swayed 
baick and forth during the first half, 
Groskloss and Hess making conslstents gains for tho Carnogie Plebes, 
bjuit tho Californian's managed to 
hold them scoreless tho first half.
In tho third quarter both teams 
played hard realizing a single touch
down would win tho game. Early In 
tho third quartor Moorhead was sub
stituted for GroskloBa.' On tho first 
play Moorhead was tried on an end 
run, but duo to a bad pass fumbled 
and one of tho Normal school mon roicoverod, on tho Ploboa 35-yard lino. 
The Pliebos soon got tho ball aftor 
holding California for downs. Tho 
attempted ond run was then trlod 
again, this tlmo Moorhoad recolvod 
'the ball, rounded right end for about 
seventy yards and scored tho touch
down which almost spoiled victory 
for tho Ploboa.
Tho Plebes recolvod on tlio noxt 
lcickoff, but after a fow attempts at 
line plunges, ifuimblod, perhaps duo to 
over-anxiety. Tho Normal school 
mon wero quick to rocovor and aftor 
a comploted pass and a few lino 
plunges carried tho ball over tho 
In tho few mlnemalned tho Ploboa had 
hardly tlmo ' to got another touchRequests for reservations for the 
Notre Dame game continue to pour 
into tho office of Graduate Manager 
Overend. There are fully twico as 
many requests now than thero v/ero 
last year at this time; then, too, the 
game Is to be a week later. So It can 
easily bo seen that a tremendous 
amount of interest Is already aroused 
in the coming Notre Dame-Carnegie 
classic. Dont be left behind. Got in 
your reserval'.on now.
RECENT MEETING GIVES 
BOXING GREAT IMPETUS
VARSITY AND PLEBE 
HARRIERS WINNERS
Allegheny Offers Stiff Oppo
sition, 25 to 30; Shadyside 
Loses
PLEBES AT STEUBENVILLE.
Old Man Hard Luck continues to chase our Plebe football toam, but 
we have a hunch that he will In turn be chased next Saturday whon Coach pi0b0f) goal, nno#
Jim Anderson and Manager Jerry Slye load thoir chargos to Stoubonville, I uteH t,mt romaini 
there to play the strong high school team of that place. Tho host tho Plobos ' 
have done so far has been to tie Westlngliouse Tech and California Normal, 
but thoy deserved to fare bettor. After Saturday the only chanco for tho down, and tho game ondod In a 7 to
Freshmen to chalk up a victory will be against Potomac Stato Normal 7 tlo. We might' add1 tho Ploboa doSchool on November 15. served tho game and really1 out
played tlie California team, though
the Freshmen handled tho ball poor
ly.
Tho lineup: ?
Carnogio Plobos7.
California7.
Langfltt ................L. E............ Clinnnlng
Allon .....................L. T________ Handle
'Coinack ..............L. G........................ Fee
Neff .........................c............... Aschman |
Johnston ..............R. G.............. Linqulst!
Marshall ...........R. T .................... Maug |
FUMBLES AND MISPLAYS
Are made on tho sidelines and In the press box as woll as on tho 
field. When Mohrman went into the gamo against Wostorn Maryland Sat
urday In the fourth quarter tho reporters mado a mistako in his number, 
with the result that after he had made several good plays and scored a 
touchdown another man recolvod the credit in tlio play by play account 
given out by the Pittsburgh newspapers.
When the numbers are plainly marked on the backs of tho playors, it 
would seem that a mistake could not occur, but in justice to tho newspaper 
men It must be admitted that when plays are being run off rapidly, and 
especially trick plays such as are used by Coach StefTen, it is a very dllllcult 
matter to get everything right, and not slip up at times. We would sug
gest that assistant managers who know the numbers of all of tho players 
and are familiar with the plays be stationed in the press box and give out 
the correct information when the reporters are at-sea.
WELCOME TO ALL 
THE OLD AND 
NEW FELLOWS 
AT TECH
Tech Barfoer 
Shop
FOKBES near CRAIG
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY j
Announces a series of eight Sat: 
urday Evening Supper Dances : 
in the Rose Room at 9 oclock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Daves 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.
A large number or boxing candi
dates appeared for tho preliminaries 
Wednesday at <1:30 in the boxilng 
room of the Now Gym. A complete 
turnout of tho forty or more who 
signed up was Impossible because of 
the fact that some mon had 5:30 
clasBos.
Paul Law and Carmen Troupoa, 
both of whom havo had amatour ring 
experience and training, put tho boys 
through a number of oxorclsos, with 
a lot of weight pulling and footwork. 
Thla and moro will ho tho dally ritual 
of tho sincere dovotoos of this sport 
for about ton or fiftoon days. Spar* 
ring will follow in a fow wooka.
Within tho noxt fow days, Purl 
Anderson, our Olympic runnor-up, 
Chris Boulcoma, Arnold Fink, and Mr. 
TEAEA of tho P. T. department with 
Burt Munhall of tho Magglo Murph 
subway, will add suggoatlona and ad
vice.
There la much onthualuam and spir
it among tho mon; It Booms aa though 
Carnogio will at last liavo a real 
honoat-to-goodnosB boxing toam. In 
tho Ught-hoavy and hoavy classoa wo 
rato first olaaa. Ughi.-wolghta, really 
good onos aro also apparent. It la In 
tho amallor divisions tlqit tho real 
finds will occur.
If you know of any good lads tip
ping the scales botwoon 110 and 120 
minus fat, amolcoa and olothoa toll 
thorn that thero la a boxing toam undor way at thla Institution.
Whon tho tlmo la rlpo Buddy Ovorond pr oral BOS to slay tho fatted calf 
for those who qualify,
Jarnos Montford cuino to school a 
fow daya ago and was ao hoarao ho 
could hardly talk. When aukod what 
was tho matter, ho answered. "1 
siepi; In tho barn last night."
W.MARYLAND BOWS TO
SUPERIOR TARTANS
Weavor ... 
Sebastian . 
Groskloss .
Bastian  ..............Q......................... Holt | Schaugluioy
Newman ...............L. H................. Merrill
Wertenberger . .R. H.................Welgle
Beede .......................F........................ Slllln
Carnegie Tech................7 6 7 727
SubstitutionsCarnegie Tech, Do
nohoe for Bastian, Mefort for Beede,
J. IChristoff for Newman, Harmon 
for Goodwin, Myers for Yoder, Powerie for Hable, Mefort for Goodwin,
Mohrman for Wertenberger, Vogt for
..R.E.. 
..(2. B.. 
.. L H.. 
. .R.H.. 
. .F. B..
. Kraus
We i verI 
. Bruco 
. Olili
. Wolfe
Goodwin, Guthrie for Cass, Bielski. Bruce. Goal from
for Manby; Maryland, Hurley for Johnston,T? tllplr Woiirla fnr T.r\nrr VAitno* fnr n___1.__ -
COLLEGE INN
Meal Tickets for Counter and Tables
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
(Continued From Page One) 
pass with not a Carnegie man near 
him. Thus Marylands hope for a 
score dropped just like the ball from 
Groton's arms.
From this point on It was all Car
negie. The Tartans registered 25 
first downs to three for her oppo
nents, which makes a good basis of 
comparison. The double pass was 
worked often and successfully. In 
fact everything was working as 
smoothly as a pickpocket's fingers.
Bastian and Donahue ran the ends 
with huge success, as did also Good
win, Mefort and Hable. Then came 
the substitutes. It was a reminder 
of the Notre Dame game last year, 
the way the backfield was repliaced.
Goodwin got his weekly touchdown
on a long end run in the second' Head linesman.
quarter and Newman came through , E Demesne, 
with one in the third quarter. _________________
The fourth and final touchdown j NIGHT MEN RECEIVE 
came as a direct result from some TWENTY SCHOLARSHIPS
fine playing by the subs, particularly -------------
Mohrman, Harmon and Powrie. Mohr-j (Continued From Page One.) 
man in his first game this year gave Keesport, Lawrence G. Schifano, 
the fans a treat the way he carried Pittsburgh, and Alexander Lois, Pittsthe ball and bucked the line. burgh, Mechanical Drafting Course;
He carried the ball to the visitors ( Robert F. Dietrich, Carnegie, and 
goal line and then bucked It over, j George A. Miller, Mlllvaie, Arcnitecwhence Harmon finished the scoring tural Drafting Course; James W. Ear*
Hess 
Scoro by quarters
Plebes ..............:...............0i 0 0 77
California ...........................0 0 0 77
Substitutions  Moorehead for 
Groskloss, Frlsblne for Noff, Mc
Clelland for Langfltt, Wagner for 
Kraus, Dltt for Linqulst, Bier for 
Haug, Smith for Glllis, Olili for 
Smith. Touhdowns 1 Moorehead,
Bu/ck, Weigle for Long, Young for 
Holt, Peterson for Secrist, Hall for 
G. Williams, E. Williams for Bona, 
G. Williams for Hall, Buck for Sellins. TouchdownsGoodwin, Bastian, 
Newman, Mohrman. Goals after 
touchdownBastian, Newman, Har
mon. Missed goal after touchdown 
Newman. Time of periods15 min
utes each. Officials: RefereeDon 
i Dougherty, W. & J. UmpireH. J.
E.
Dougherty.
minutes.
Channing. 
Time of
touchdown 
Referee 
quiarters15
RIFLE TEAM CALLS FOR 
PLAYERS AND MANAGERS
by kicking goal.
Secrist was the outstanding man 
for the Maryland Collegians, due to 
his fine defensive playing. The work 
of the entire Carneglo squad pleased 
many fathers who were on hand to 
see the second annual Father's Day 
game. A crowd of approximately 
10,000* saw the Skibos turn in their j water in the South Sea Islands of Taly, Mt. Oliver, and Ralei h E. Ritchie, 
Pittsburgh, Practical Chemistry; 
James L. Kelly, Pittsburgh, Sheet 
Metal Work.
WORK OF UNDER SEA
PAINTER ON EXHIBIT
(Continued From Pago Ono.)
fifth victory of the current season. 
The lineup:
Carnegie Tech27.
W. Maryland0.
Goodwin ..............LE................. Groton
Kvlstof ................L.T........... (C.) P-vhan
Anderson .............L. G............ McRoble
Manby .....................C........................ Perry
Cass ........................R. G..................... Bona
Yoder .....................R. T................. Secrist
Hable ....................R. E...................... Hall
hit! and Samoa.
Mr. Pritchard will deliver a lecture 
tomorrow evening, in the Carnegie 
Museum Lecture Hall at 8:15. This 
lecture which will be free to the pub
lic will be illustrated by lantern 
slides showing the method of diving 
and working in the water. The audi
ence will, be taken into the gallery 
where the pictures will be shown and 
explained by Mr. Pritchard.
The mens varsity rifle team, which 
gained lecognition from the Athletic 
Council late last year, is preparing to 
open the range in room 412 Arts 
school this week for practice only. 
The schedule calls for the first match 
during the week of December 8 and 
considerable tune will be devoted to 
coaching the candidates Tor the team 
in ' preparation for this match. The 
team is quite fortunate m having a 
competent coach in Captain Lyons of 
the R. O. T. C. department.
It is hoped that the student body 
will support this branch of activity,by 
encouraging ovory person who la In
terested In coming out. The r.eam from 
last year is not Intact and thoro are 
chances for new men to malco the 
team this year.
Practice will be held every school 
day from 4:30 p. m. to 0:00 p. m. and 
from 9 a. rn. to noon on Saturday. 
Remember the place and the time and 
all who aro interested Jn trying out 
for the team or for manager report 
at the range this week.
Smiles (ht back, at ron!
Coach Guy Hal fortys cross-country 
squad proved their class with a noat 
victory ovor Allegheny in last Satur
days dual meet, 25 points to 30 for 
thoir opponents. Tho affair was run 
off ovor tho same course as the Pltt 
meet two wooks ago, namely from the 
bottom of Flagstaff II111 through Pan
ther Hollow and adjoining Schenley 
Park sections, finishing at the top of 
tho same hill.
While tho Plaid squad was hardpressed at times, thoy always had 
somotlilng in reserve and their win 
was decisive. Allegheny presontod a 
capable, fighting toam, which did Its 
beBt but was outclassed by tho Tar
tans, Dy Iceman as usual was tho in
dividual star of tho encounter, easily 
loading all opponents to tho tape. Tho 
flrst Allegheny man followed 300 
yards to tho roar, then another Plaid, 
another of tho opposition, and so on, 
to tho last. In fact., tho alternation 
was porfootly regular for tho flrst 
twolvo placos, Carnogio winning by 
vlrtuo of Ita position one jump ahead 
of tho Moadvlllo Institution.
The moot was gotten under way 
by Managor Proctor, promptly at 12:30 
with Ideal weather conditions prevail
ing. and tho alx-mllo course was ne
gotiated by tho flrat runor, Howdy 
Dykoman, in 28 minutes 54 aoconda, 
equalling tho courao record, which ho 
mado against Pitt recently.
Carnegies freshman squad mado a 
flno showing In tho throo-mllo course, 
easily defeating Shadyuldo Acadomy 
10 to 30.
Captain Crawford of tlio IMebea led 
his men down thcr strotoh, finishing 
In 17 minutes 25 seconds. Only ono 
8hadyaldo man Intorvonod botwoon 
him and four moro of tho Tartans, 
who flowed up tho moot right thoro.
Summniioa:
VARSITYWon by Dykoman, (Carnoglo) 28.54; Roy, (Allegheny) 21).-12; 
Bright, (Carneglo); llout'/:, (Alio* 
ghony); Poole, (Carnogio); Dovoraux, 
(Allegheny); Hloimi, (Carneglo); 
Jones, (Allogliony); Do.ToHua, (Oarhoglo); Bogardus, (Allegheny); Look* 
ard, (Carnogio); Tommtorn, (Alle
gheny) ; Bubooolc, (Allogliony); low
ing, (Carnogio); Follor, (Carnogio); 
Ltiston borgor, (Oarnoglo).
ILIQIMOHWon by Crawford, (Carnoglo) 17:25; Robinson, (Shndynldo); 
Horsh, Fry, Jacobs, Hobo, (Carnogio); 
BDastorn, (Shadysldo); | Sponsollor, 
(Carnogio).
Tho Singer Pen ana Gift Shop In 
tho Jonklnn Arcndc will give you ronoonablo prlcos on calling cards, danoo 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, otc. Thoy can repair your 
old fountain pen or nell you a bettor 
ono.Adv.
MENS STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
Invest Your Savings in Bonds
For personal investment thero arc 
fow things that offer aa many ad
vantages an good bonds, Safety, 
incorno and marketability aro tlio 
factorn that moasuro investment, 
valued and in these reupcctii nood 
bond aro rated high.
Invest your money in bond. 
Whether you can afford ono or 
many, you will find hero intelligent 
interest in your requirement!! and 
a macero desire to provido invest
ments that will fit your particular ncoda.
Ami remember, you can buy flood 
bonds in denominations as low us ?100.
Mellon National E>ank
Pittsbijt^h, Pu.
RUSKIN
APARTMENT
RESTAURANT
THE most satisfactory place 
in the neighborhood for 
Carnegie Techs clacs and 
fraternity affairs that require 
catering entertainment.
Public and private dining room 
accommodation. Catering facil
ities adequate for any size func
tion.
Location convenient. Cuisine 
excellent. Prices satisfactory.
DAILY DINING
BreakfastLunchDinner
Prompt Table DHote and A la 
Carte service and varied menus 
assured.
Modem Restaurant 
Moderate Prices
120 RUSKIN AVENUE 
6CHENLEY FARMS
Collegiate Barber
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
We Do Shingle Bobbing. 
Hats Cleaned. Shoes Shined. 
DANIEL & CICERO 
Proprietors.
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Compl:z: Up-zo-Daz: Drug Szor:
  el---------------------------------------------------

PAGEFOUR7RN EGSTNUFN HGSHGTTUESDAY. NOVEMBER 4, 1924
ALUMNI PAGEJ?
Instructor of Art 
School Worked Here
Russel Studied in Dramat and 
P. and I. Course
The MacPhail School of Music o 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, recently an
nounced the appointment of Thomas
F. Russell as instructor in the Dra
matic Art Department. Mr. Russell 
studied under Alexander Wycoff and 
Thomas Wood Stevens of the drama 
department while at Carnegie. He 
also took work in the painting and il
lustrating department.
Mr. Russell has done the designing 
and lighting for many noteworthy pro
ductions in Minneapolis and sur
rounding cities. Last year he was 
particularly successful, designing the 
setting for Goodmans "The Game of 
Chess. This play was one of the 
prize winners, in Shubert's amateur 
play contest in Minneapolis.
The MacPhail School of Music is 
one of the largest and best institu
tions of its kind in Minneapolis. Many 
artists of national fame are instruc
tors there. The dramatic art depart
ment is a very important part of the 
institution. Plays are produced regu
larly during the year and many capa
ble grads are turned out. Mr. Russell 
goes to the school as an instructor in 
stage design, costuming, lighting, 
make-up and history of the theater.
i ICLAN NEWS ]
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN
The Youngstown Clan will hold a 
stag meeting on November 3. There 
will be an election of officers. Plans 
tfor coming affairs will also be made. 
Members will try to (construct some 
system whereby high school athletes 
may be interested in Carnegie.
NEW YORK CLAN
PrOF. soMPBfLL MoDf 
BfoUX orew DIrfseOr
Of more than passing interest is 
the announcement coming from Chi
cago, of the appointment of Edmund 
S. Campbell as dean of the Beaux 
Arts Institute of Design.
Mr. Campbell was a member of the 
faculty of the Department of Archi
tecture for seven years previous to 
his going to Chicago. During his stay 
there he was first professor of archi
tectural design at the Armour Insti
tute, and later in charge of the de
partment of architecture at that 
school. While be was connected with 
the Chicago institution he gained an 
enviable reputation, both as an archi
tect and as a teacher.
Professor Campbell devotes much 
of his leisure time to painting, and 
has exhibited his work at the New 
York Water Color Club, the Chicago 
Society of Artists, the Pittsburgh As
sociation and numerous other socie
ties as well as at the International 
Water Color exhibit at the Art Insti
tute in Chicago. At present he has a 
collection at tliS Delgrado Art Mu
seum in New Orleans.
He is a graduate of the Massachu
setts Institute of Technology. It is 
thought that he will do much to e$ 
tend the co-operation of the Beaux 
Arts Institute of Design with the edu
cational institutions of the country.
The many friends of the new clau 
join in wishing him unlimited success 
in his new position.
GREGARIOUS GRAFNICKERS GRAVIATING
(Continued From Page One) 
could probably have added some val
uable comments to the speeches which 
were mado on this subject.
The Graphica is hard -at work on 
the preliminary arrangements for its 
annual Christmas Card campaign, to 
finance an inspection tour through the 
great commercial printing plants of 
the east during spring vacation. Sam
ple cards will be displayed on the 
campus shortly, and an active selling 
drive will be conducted. As the cards 
this year will be even more attractive 
than those of former years, it is .quite 
certain that the campaign will go 
across with one of the Graphica Clubs 
characteristic big bangs
A dinner dance is planned by the 
New York Clan for November 14 at 
the Boulevard Cafe, Fortieth street 
off Broadway. _ Carnegie songs and 
music will be broadcasted over the 
radio. Those desiring to attend 
shoirld communicate with J. A. Cam
eron, President of the New York 
Clan. 1*15 Park avenue, Tuckahoe, 
N. Y.
POwe -roDUoef -Ofw 
eO MINN. UNIVfrwIeYMONON. CLAN MEET I carnegie jewelry 
AT VALLEY CLUBWIem VorIfD DfwI-N
CONNECTICUT CLAN
Notice has been recently received 
stating that the Connecticut Clan 
meeting will be held on November
17. This is the first meeting of the 
year and much enthusiasm has been 
stirred up.
Thirty or more members have been 
lined up and more new faces are ex
pected.
Further details can be obtainer by 
writing R. W-. Arnold', 353 Sigournly 
street, Hartford, Conn. Watch next 
weeks Tartan for additional news.
BrID-f PoreY POwe
PONfD UNeIL Dfs. 3
The evening bridge party which 
was to be given by the Margaret 
Morrison Alumnae Association on 
November 12 has been postponed un
til Wednesday, December 3. This is 
due to the fact that the date for the 
theater party to be given in the Littl'e Theater has been moved ahead. 
The party will be given in the M. 
M. Recreation Hall at 8:30 in the 
evening of December 3.
Anna Cote Dodds, 10, is chairman 
of the committee in icharge of the 
affair. Madeline Neese Rowley, 10, 
Lily Crosby Challoner, 11, Mildred 
Knapp, 15, and Charlotte Schaffner 
Youtng are also on the committee. 
Announcements of the affair will be 
sent to all the alumnae soon and it 
is hoped that they will do their ut
most to make the bridge a success. 
The officers of the association are 
viatMy interested in its welfare, and 
it is the duty of every Margaret 
Morrison graduate to support them. 
Keep the new date, December 3, in 
mind and arrange to be there.
SINK OLD STATE CHEER
RALLY IN GYM TODAY
(Continued From Page One) 
ing rallies of the year, and the vol
ume of sound produced by the com
bined efforts of the band and the stu
dents will thoroughly test the acous
tic properties of the main room, of 
the gymnasium.
TARTANS FACE NITTANY
LIONS AT PENN STATE
(Continued From Page One.) 
negie. The fraternities are holding 
house parties over Saturday, also, and 
there will be no end of entertainment, 
for the men and women who make 
the trip.
The State management has made 
plans to accommodate a large Car
negie -crowd. Rassbach hopes the 
management will not be disappointed.
iyb':zi:
When you have 
exhaustedyour 
verbal eloquence.
c[ech Flou>er Shop
4527 FORBES ST. NiAK NiAKN 
V^sB-W HAAS RVrf^PHOHESCHENlFA'. V^jrrSgJRSH^^ 4Z7ZJ!?-
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All new and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
606 State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pitsburgh, Pa.
Compliments 
of
Skibo Inn
Information has been received con
cerning Lester Raines, who did post
graduate work in Applied Psychology 
at Carnegie in 1920-1921. We foqnd 
the following excerpt in the press of 
Minnesota. University:
"Lester Raines starts work at Min
nesota this fall as the new director 
of dramatics, succeeding Mrs. Ariel 
M. Dingwall, resigned. Mr. Raines 
conies from the Iowa State College 
at Ames, where he held a similar of
fice last year. Prior to that he 
served similarly at the University of 
Pittsburgh where he organized the 
Pitt Players.
Mr. Raines received his Bache
lors and Masters degrees at the 
University of Illinois and subsequent
ly did graduate work iu drama at 
Harvard and the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
It was at the initial meeting of 
the Garrick mens dramatic organiza
tion that Mr. Raines first appeared 
before a group of students. At that 
tims he discussed the dramatic out
look at the University and! expressed 
a desire to co-operate with every dra
matic organization on the campus.
Director Raines of the dramatic 
department will icoach the cast. The 
Players Society as inaugurator of 
the project, has selected Captain 
Applejack. as the offering. Co
operating with the Players are the 
members of the Masquers and Paint 
and Patches.*
Charleroi Meeting is Well 
AttendedElections Held 
For Year
I Now wo have somothing that is parPrO-rfww MoDf WIem 
soMPUw IMPrOVfMfNe
Since the opening of School on 
Sept. 17 the Campus has been gradual
ly transformed from the sad condi
tion in which we found it on returning 
to a condition which is beginning to 
look very promising.
The construction of the steam tun
nel during the summer played havoc 
with everything in general. Where 
there had been lawns we found piles 
of dirt. Everything was torii up. Due 
to the efforts of Colonel Fairley and 
his assistants and our able gardner 
Paul, things are taking on a better 
appearance. The plot of ground in 
front of Arts School and also that be
tween Science and Industries has been 
plowed, well fertilized, and worked 
over very carefully. It has been plant
ed with English rye. (This has noth
ing to do with the Scotch variety). 
When this conies up we will have a 
pretty green growth. In the Spring 
this growth of rye will be plowed 
under and grass seed will be sowed. 
By next Fall Ave should have some 
very respectable looking hnvns.
Two walks now run from Arts 
School to Woodlawn avenue dividing 
the plot or ground in front of Arts 
School into throe equal parts. Con
tinuations of these will extend to 
Machinery Hall, one acting as a 
means of access to Science and the 
other as an access'to Industries. New 
upper classmen and Freshmen en
trances are to be constructed in 
Science School.
In addition to this landscape fea
ture of the improvements the dining 
room for women has been in success
ful operation for some time. The old 
Field House 'has been put to a very 
good use indeed.
-Lff sLUBw PLoNNINerIPw eO emrff sIeIfw
Last Sunday evening the combined 
ensemble of Girls and Mens Glee 
Clubs was present at the Sixth Pres
byterian Church. Miss Eva Spencer 
was soloist for the evening, and the 
celebrated club quartet, assisted by 
the Men's Glee Club, sang several 
numbers.
The Glee Club has before it an in
teresting calendar. Tentative dates 
have been made for engagements in 
Buffalo, Cleveland and Philadelphia. 
On November 26 the clubs will be in 
Edgewood for a concert and dance. 
The dates for the Buffalo, Cleveland 
and Philadelphia concerts will be an
nounced as soon as they are definitely 
fixed.
4Y ARRANGES SUBSTANTIAL 
LUNCHES AT PENN STATE
ON ARRIVAL OF SPECIAL
(Continued From Page One.) 
tied, there is no reason why we 
shouldnt purchase our tickets imme
diately.
Just where the mess headquarters 
will be has not been made known yet, 
but you will hear all about it on the 
train. Add to your $6.20 enough for 
a substantial lunch, that your joy may 
be full and consequently our. cheering 
heavy.
The financial campaign of the Car
negie Branch Y. M. C. A. has been 
very successful during the last few 
weeks. A membership of six hundred 
men has been made; and the required 
goal of $3,000 attained. Returns are 
still coming in, and it is estimated 
that over one hundred dollars more 
than the goal will be the final result. 
However, the opportunity to con
tribute is still open to any one who as 
yet not done so. The committee of 
management and the Student Cabinet 
wish to extend their hearty thanks to 
the students and the faculty for their 
quick response and ardent support. A 
great deal of credit is due the student 
committee forits very efficient effectiv work.
The Y. M. C. A. will be very grate
ful for any suggestions on how the 
Y can be of any greater service on 
the campus.
That the Carnegie Alumni and for
mer students now residing in the mid
dle Monongahela Valley have retain
ed a very live interest in their Alma 
Mater was evidenced by the response 
to the recent invitation sent out to at
tend a Gettogether Dinner. This 
dinner was held at the Charleroi Elks' 
Club on the evening of October 21st, 
and twenty-three Carnegie men and 
women were present, coming from 
Monessen, Monongahela, Donora and 
Charleroi. In addition to those who 
attended the dinner an encouraging 
number of replies were received from 
others who were prevented from be
ing present, stating that they were 
whole-heartedly in favor of the idea.
This meeting had been called iu or
der |o determine the sentiment among 
the Carnegie grads in the Mononga
hela Valley district on the question of 
resurrecting the old Monongahela Val: 
ley Clan which was in existence about 
three years ago, but which, due to ex
isting circumstances, liad ceased to 
function. Following the dinner this 
question was discussed at length. In 
a series of short talks, Messrs. II. H. 
Blau, Conrad A. Stone and H. G. 
Nicliol pointed out ways by which the 
Alumni might help to advance the in
terests of Carnegie in this district 
through organization, as well as the 
benefits which the membors them
selves might derive from the clan. 
Further discussion brought out the 
fact that everyone present heartily fa
vored the re-establishing of the Mo
nongahela Clan, and the meeting pro
ceeded with organization. Officers 
were elected as follows:
PresidentConrad A. Stone, Box 
391, Charleroi, Pa.
Vice PresidentMiss Alice G. Nix
on, 5S Sclioonmaker avenue, Mones
sen, Pa.
Secretary-TreasurerA. B. Lowstutter, Box 91, Charleroi, Pa.
Final details or organization were 
delegated to the executive committee.
The Monongahela Valley Clan, thus 
again brought to life, Is planning an 
interesting program of activity, with 
the aim or furthering the interests of 
Carnegie in the district comprising 
the towns of Charleroi, Ellsworth, Do
nora, California, Belle Vernon, Mo
nessen and Monongahela. There is 
now a considerable number of grad
uates and former studonts in this 
area, and the enthusiasm manifested 
at the first gathering gives promise 
of a vigorous clan.
ticularly -Carnegies, something that 
no other school can boast of, one that 
j every loyal son of Skibo would wear 
I with pride. They are the new Recoir| nition Rings,, Bar Pins and Keys, 
j The Alumni office have worked out 
j some new artistic designs wherein 
| the recognition pin will be mounted 
on rings, keys and bar pins and other 
assorted jaweleries to suit all tastes. 
The Alumni office seems to be rather 
partial to the girls. The co-eds will 
not only find rings suited to their 
tastes but also a number of assorted 
pins upon which the recognition in
signia is mounted on an onyx back
ground.
All of these will be of 10 karat 
solid gold. The rings will be mado 
into two weights, ono costing about 
$6.00. the other about ?S.00. For the 
key. the pin will bo on a onyx base.
This is quite distinct from the De
gree Rings, to which only the grad
uates are privileged. Our four colors 
encircling the school flower will adorn 
the place of the amethyst stone.
The Alumni office expects to put 
these articles out by the middle of 
November. They will be on sale both 
at the Alumni office and at the book
store.
Anybody who has been in the 
school for over a year, whether in the 
day or night school, will be entitled 
to wear these recognition iusignias.
saIpytny Map nj owaIgyg 
Whnccaib oIc wchalaIjhnp
From Cleveland comes the news of 
the honoring of another oz Carnegies 
sons. Robert H. McCallum, a student 
in the Arts School in 1921-22, ban 
been awarded the Anna Scripps Whit
comb scholarship by the Detroit Mu
seum of Art Founders .Society. The 
scholarship is valued at $1,000 and 
provides for a years study abroad.
McCallum, who specialized in paint
ing and Illustration while a I. school 
here, designed his prize winning 
work, a stained glass window "Gene
sis, while employed by a commer
cial art firm in Detroit.
His design also captured the first 
prize at the Michigan S'tato Fair, 
where it was exhibited early this fall.
THISTLE OPENS SUBSCRIPTION CAMPAIGN SOON
(Continued From Page One.) 
pare Carnegie of today with that of 
your time, and.see whether it Is living 
up to the standards and traditions 
which you have set. You are well 
aware of the fact that the Thistle has 
often brought back memories of your 
college days, so why not subscribe to 
this years Thistle, and get in touch 
with the Carnegie of today.
This years Thistle Is altogether a 
new idea from any other ever publish
ed. It is absolutely assured that it 
will appeal to the taste of all. The 
Thistle Board, under the leadership of 
Earl G. Wheeler, has been very busy 
working on the different items neces
sary for the Thistle make-up. The 
Board has set aside a day of every 
second week for reports of the mem
bers in regard to their progress on 
their assigned items.
The Thistle Board urges that all 
seniors, fraternities, sororities, and 
other school organizations that will 
have individual pictures, report as 
soon as possible to room 149, Industris Building, at the following hours: 
10:30 a. m. to 3:30 p. m. every day 
except Saturday. These hours will be 
official until Friday Nov. 21. After 
that, the stragglers will have to report 
to Mr. McClays studio in Willdnsburg.
Any good snapshots or pictures 
taken during the past yeur at the 
various campus activities, will be ap
preciated by the Thistle. Anyone havIng such pictures, and thinking them 
suitable for the Thistle, will kindly 
mail their negatives to the Editor In 
Chief, E. G. Wheeler, Box 172, C. I. v.
Alumni or night students who sub
scribe to the Thistle, must pay an 
extra fee of twenty-five cents to cover 
postage for mailing the copies, making 
the total cost $4.75.
R. Westlake"Did you have any 
trouble getting money from your 
dad?
B. MillerNo, I was calm and col
lected.
[ TELESCOPE j
WE POINT WITH PRIDE TO
1. The Football Teams.
2. The CarnegiQ Spirit of the Clan.
3. Tho New Alumni Directories
4. The work of the Drama Depart
ment.
5. The Kiltie Band.
In regard to tho game with Pitt, 
which is now history, it. strikes us 
that tho stereotyped writeups in the 
daily press have contained a groat 
many alibis. Wo are,of the opinion 
that Pitt gave all she had in that 
game with Carnegie and that tho rea
son she did not score was not out of 
pity for us, nor that one man was 
banged up early in the gamo and 
thereafter unablo to think clearly, nor 
any of the innumerable other reasons 
given. The reason was that tho Pan
ther was outfought, outbattled, and 
outwitted. It has even gone so far 
that -one Sporting Editor of the city 
made the statement editorially that 
Carnegies touchdown came as the 
result of a break. Pitt was beaten. 
Her best was not good enough.
It is getting close to the time of 
the annual Clan Luncheon. Next 
weeks Carnegie Tartan will contain 
all the necossary information in re
gard to time, placo and price. Let 
us make this tho biggest one yet. Wo 
have a team second to none wo over 
had in grit and stamina. Come on, 
Carnegie! Lets go!
THREE DAYS INSTITUTE
FOR MASTER PLUMBERS
(Continued From Page One.)
Through the activities of John IT. 
Keane, Secretary of  tho Pittsburgh 
Master Plumbers Association, fully a 
hundred plumbers and heating and 
ventilation men in this district are 
[ expected to attend, It is reported. Pre
liminary reservations also indicate 
that tho Philadelphia association will 
bo represented by a largo delegation 
while enough other reservations hnvo 
been made from members in other 
parts of the state to indicate that botwoon 150 and 200 men will take ad
vantage of the opportunity at tho lo
cal Institution next; week to learn 
more about; sanitation problems.
Tho' demonstrations and lectures, 
which have been arrangod by Dr. C.
B. Connelloy, Director of Industrial 
Relations, and Professor S. E. Dibble, j 
head of tho Department of Plumbing, 
Heating and Ventilating, have beon 
selected in order to givo tlioso who 
attend a more practical knowledge of 
tho technical phases of tliolr w.ork. 
Such subjects as water purification, 
storage of hot water, corrosion of 
iron and steel, water pressure, tho 
nature of heat, sowago disposal, boat 
transfer, flow of wator In pipes, and 
somo Items of chemistry and metal
lurgy of interost to the Industry, will 
bo covered In lectures and demonstra
tions by members of tho Carnegie 
Tech faculty.
In commenting upon tho develop 
mont of tho Throo Days Instituto, 
Dr. C. B. Connolloy said yesterday: 
Tho purpose ol! the Throo Days In
stitute is to givo to tlioso In the 
plumbing, heating, and ventilating in
dustries of Pennsylvania' and olsowhore information which has, in tho 
past, beon available to only a vory 
limited group.
"The Carnegie institute of Technol
ogy bollovos it soos tho neods of tlioso 
great industries and roallzos. more
over, that it Is in a position to sup
ply much valuable Information to 
plumbing, heating, and ventilating 
men. As a result of this position to 
these industries, tho The Days Insti
tute has been set aside as an oppor
tunity to presorit some Important; 
facts and demonstrations.
The plumbing, heating and venti
lating industries are rapidly advanc
ing. The general public is moro en
lightened and -better Informed than 
formerly in matters of sanitation. 
Consequently, it has become neces
sary that leaders of these industries 
should take advantage of every means 
to increase their knowledge in sani
tation developments.
The lecturers will include Professor 
>S'. E. Dibble, head of the Department 
of plumbing, Heating and Ventilating; 
Professor Harold L. Lang, Depart
ment of Biology and Public Health; 
Professor Robert B. Leigliou, Head of 
the Department of Industrial Science; 
Professor Harold A. Thomas, Depart
ment of Hydraulics; Professor Harry 
S. Hower, Head of the Department of 
Physics. E. H. McClelland, head of 
the Technological Department of the 
Carnegie Library, is also included in 
the list of lecturers.
Several features have been ar
ranged in connection witii the Three 
Days' Institute. Of special import
ance, it is announced, is the exhibit 
of plumbing, heating, and ventilating 
material manufactured in the Pitts
burgh District, which will be shown 
in one Qi the rooms of the Department 
of Plumbing, Heating and Ventilating.
The exhibitors will Include the 
Standard Sanitary Manufacturing 
Company, National Tube Company, 
Pittsburgh Water Heater Company, 
Peerless Heater Company, Pittsburgh 
Engineering Company, Samson Man
ufacturing Company, American Lead 
Company, Ruud Manufacturing Com
pany, Pittsburgh Motor Company, TJ.
S. Radiator Company, Armstrong 
Cork and Insulation Company, Na
tional Trade Extension Bureau, Wil
liams Gauge Company, Pittsburgh 
Valve and Construction Company, A. 
M. Byers Company, Kelly and Jones 
Company, and the Carnegie Library.
Inspection trips to a number of lo
cal industrial plants and evening en
tertainment including a production by 
the Department of Drama are sched
uled by the committee in charge.
The Alumnae Bridge Party has 
been postponed due to conflict with a 
theatre party. On this page will be 
found tho details for the affair wlion 
it; finally will bo hold.
If each of the Clans should at the 
movement. Especially will that 
for changing tho name Tech to 
Carnegie, we are of the opinion that 
a great impetus would bo given the 
tho movement. Especially will that 
be the caso If tho resolutions decided 
upon should be published In tho Car
negie Tartan.
Cincy Clan Meeting 
Gets Football Score
Anxious Alumni Hold First 
Annual Clan Meet
Tho Cincinnati Clan hold Its first, 
gel.-togot.hor mooting on Saturday, Oc
tober 25th, 1:30 p. m. at tho Cincinnati 
Radio Company operated by Harry 10. 
Haldoman, Science 20. Eight' loyal 
Carnoglo alumni waited patiently for 
tho loud speaker to announce tho kickOff of tho Carnoglo-Plfl: game, and 
ai'tor throo hours of waiting we 
(liaoo vo rod that KDKA Vo re not 
broadcasting. This however did not. 
dampen our spirits for wo woro by 
this time getting tho returns by quar
ters from the Cincinnati Enquirer. 
When that weary, long last quarter 
was reported our little band of eight, 
wore in a hysterical condition and im
mediately departed In all directions to 
broadcast what Y,V had waited throo 
hours forthe second groatost victory 
In football.
This was not an organization moot
ing, an nothing could have boon organ
ized but a parade and we didnt dare 
do this for fear of ending in Long
view Asylum.
However, tills mooting demonstrat
ed what a noise a fow Carnogio alum
ni can create and that Cincinnati In 
going to put on the map tho strongest 
clan yet organlzod.
The following woro present at the 
meeting:
Herbert Katzmnn.............................1-13
Leo. V. Bohannon...........................S-l?
Mrs. Loo V. Bohannon.........M. M-lG
M. C. Schwerdo...............................S-24
W. M. Ball..........................................i-ix
G. C. Smith.....................................S 15
H. E. I-Ialdeman...............................S-20
J. W. Batman....................................i-20
The next meting will be held at the
home of G. C. Smith, G01 E. McMillan 
street on Friday evening Noy. 7 th at 
8 p. m.
CARNEGIE MAN TO 
APPEAR AT NIXON
Kenneth Thomson Performs 
in Sheridans Comedy, 
The Rivals
MUSICAL CLUBS STUNTS
QUITE DISCONCERTING
(Continued From Pape One.) 
vance of that of other years, from 
the musical standpoint.
The main thing to talk about at 
this time is the dance.
There will be no dances on the 
campus until this Glee Club Dance. 
Last Saturday the football dance was 
quite a success, and this is the last 
until the Marine Game Dance. There
fore, Inasmuch as Armistice Day has 
been set aside as a holiday, there will 
be nothing to do Monday evening, 
November 10 but to dance, so dance 
we will. Manager Lundquist. has ap
pointed the committee and there is 
nothing being left right side up In 
search for something original at tho 
dance.
There will be stunt; but they will 
not be of. such nature that they will 
break in on tho dancing. Tho evening 
has boon planned for several weeks, 
and tlio things aro right for the occa
sion. By tho term tho things wo 
mean the arrangements, and tho 
stunts. There 1 no use harping fur
ther on the subject for overyone will 
Ho there without urging.
SEE MARTIN
FOR GOOD THINGS TO EAT j 
CORNER FORBES AND CRAIG J 
M. PASQUINELLI
It lias recently beon announced 
that Kenneth Thomson, a graduate of 
the School of Drama at Carnegie has 
been selected to play tho role of Cap
tain Jack Absolute in tho all-star re
vival of Sheridan's cpmody, The Ri
vals, the premiere performance of 
which will be given in Pittsburgh on 
November 10, at the Nixon Theater. 
This will mark his first professional 
appearance hero, although he has 
beon billed to perform several times. 
The actor is a son of Mrs. Edith Tay
lor Thomson, Pittsburgh concert man
ager.
Thomson enrolled in tho Drama 
Department here on the suggestion of 
Julian Marlowe, who is quoted as say
ing that Carnegies Drama School is 
the best in America and 0110 of the 
best in the world. Thomson was a 
member of the evening school for a 
year and a half, until the United 
States entered the World War. At. 
that time, ho joined tho marine corps, 
returning to Carnegie after, tho sign
ing of tho armistice. He then com
pleted his studies in the day school, 
graduating five years ago.
This is the second time Thomson 
has played tho role of Captain Jack 
Absolute as lie appeared in that part 
when Tho Rivals Avas presented at 
the Little Thoator at Carnegie while 
ho was yet in school.
His success since graduating has 
been noteworthy, reflecting credit 
both to himself and to Carnogle. He 
played the loading rolo in John Gals
worthy's drama Tho Silver Box, and 
was complimontod by that celebrated 
playwright on tho excellent manner, 
in which ho handled that dllllcult; rolo. 
ITo supportod Etliol Barrymoro in De 
Classo, and Jack Borosford in Shav
ings. As Smithors, tho English 
trader, ho supportod Charles Gilpin, 
tho famous' Nogro actor in Emperor 
Jones. Following this ongagement, 
ho played with Doris Koano in the 
Tho Czarina and with Idon.Payne 
In Tho Groat Broxopp. Mr. Payne 
was Intonsoly Intorostod In Thomsons 
success. A short; time later ho trav
eled to tho coast with Thomas A. 
Wlso in Tho Throo Wise Fools.
For ono whole season, Thomson was
l.ho loading man In Tho Lovo Child,, 
which also featured Janot, Beecher 
and Loo Bakor. Later ho supportod 
Margaret Anglin In A Woman of No 
Importance and In Tho Croat Lady 
Dodlock.
A groat many of his Pittsburgh and 
Carnoglo friends have arranged to AEE 
him when ho performs boro the week 
of November 10.
CARNEGIE DAY DATE IS
CHANGED TO NOVEMBER 21
(Con tin nod From Pago Ono.) 
oral of the United States Shipping 
Board.
At present lie is onfloylng ilfo In re
tirement on his farm at Lorotto, l*a. 
Ho admits tho most onjoyablo fosfuro 
of his Ufo an a gentleman farmer In 
golf.
TECH 
CONFECTIONERY
Como to us for your lunches and 
good French pastry.
323 SOUTH CRAIG 
JOSEPH SCOLO
Telephone Schonley 0870-J
Approved Marinello Shop
Marcel WavingManicuring 
Shampooing, Facial and Scalp 
T reatments.
314 FORBES BLDG. Oakland 
MARIE A. GARRETT
Oakland Savings &
l: Trust Co.,t,
{ Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital - .....................$300,000.00
!|! Surplus...........................$300,000.00
t* Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
X FOR RENT
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DRAWINGOUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc. 
Developing and 
Printing. 
(Ask for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
\
