January 27, 1972, Volume 72/Number 2
...or your money back...
President Stever features in various polemics in 
this weeks TARTAN. See inside for details.PrPegn
CMU economist has received a grant 
from the National Science Foundation to 
study the causes of business cycles. He is 
Dr. Robert E. Lucas, professor of econo
mics in GSIA. Professor will use the 
$63,000NSF grant to study relationships 
between defferent factors in the business 
cycle (the tendency of an economy to al
ternate between growth and regression).
Dr. Lucas points out that  Wfe dont un
derstand the basic nature of the business 
cycle problem. Although it is very unlikely 
that well ever have another big depression, 
recessions are still with us. One objective of 
current research is to give us information 
which could alleviate recessions and infla
tions.
Among the chief factors the CMU eco
nomist will investigate will be the relation 
between inflation and employment, and 
government policies and economic instability.
W3NKI
W3NC I, Carnegie Tech Radio Club, is 
the first of our ACRC member clubs of the 
month. Wfe hope in the future to aspotlight 
one club in each issue (taken from radio 
magazine). If you would like your club to 
appear here, send us a letter describing 
your club, its interests, activities, etc. and 
we will publish it as space permits.
On the air rigs at Carnegie include a 
Heathkit SB-101, B&W5100B, and Collins 
75A-4 for the DC bands, and a Heath Se
neca and HQ-180 on 6 &2 meters. Micro
wave gear is also available.
 V have just completed re-installing a 
longwire antenna and ladder feedline, 
writes the club president. The wire is 
about 700 feet long, stretching between 
the roofs of two buildings, with the radia
ting portion about 500 feet in length. He 
reports a 1 i swr on all bands with aJ ohnsonK. Wmatchbox.
W3NC Is activities include contest oper
ation, DXing, experimentation and radioteletype. Wfc are also holding code and 
theory classes, for the first time in four 
years, and there is a lot of interest, partiallarly among non-club members who want 
to get a license and then join.
"A problem we experience is that its 
hard for members to find time for club activities-operating as well as teaching classes^ue to the demands of studying. Aside 
'rm dropping out or being a genius, has 
anyone solved this problem?
Mina Gerall 
Stephen Jurman
The recent disclosure that the three stu
dent directors of the Student Gallery are 
receiving full tuition rebates has spurred 
discussion regarding the payment of stu
dent activity leaders.
Wien it began three years ago, the Stu
dent Gallery was a University project, not a 
student activity. Now, while the University 
is still granting the tuition rebates, the Gal
lerys operating budget is being paid for by 
Student Government.
While no other student activity position 
receives a tuition rebate, the secretary of 
Student Government is paid an hourly rate 
for her duties by Student Government, and 
the Activities Board Director and Com
mittee Chairpeople receive an hourly wage 
from the AB budget. No other student act
ivity leadership positions receive any re
muneration (either financial or in the form 
of academic credit).
A telephone survey of other Pittsburgh 
colleges and universities revealed diverse re
munerative practices. The entire staff of 
the PITT NEWS is salaried, and the four 
top positions in the Pitt Student Govern
ment were salaried ($100 per month) prior 
to that bodys current reorganization. Fu
ture policy is not yet determined.
The editorial staff of the Duquesne 
newspaper receive from a one quarter to a 
full tuition rebate, in addition to which the 
Business Manager and salespeople receive 
commissions. The President and Vice-Presi
dent of the student government there re
ceive a full and a one half tuition rebate, 
and the yearbook staff is reportedly re
questing some consideration.
Point Park College activity leaders re
ceive some tuition rebate. None of the in
stitutions officially grant academic credit.
A survey of twenty large universities in 
the tri-state area, conducted by the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh student government, re
vealed that nineteen universities paid some 
student government positions and that all 
twenty paid newspaper staff members.modlang
The College Council approved two com
puter course sequences for the fulfillment 
of the Modern Language requirement in 
H&SS.
Both options include an introductory 
course in computer programming and prob
lem solving. Then one sequence would in
clude two second computer problem sol
ving courses and a course in the tools and 
techniques of programming. The other se
quence would include a course on compu
ter simulation and modelling techniques, 
followed by independent study.
Other sequences along these lines might 
also be considered for the fulfillment of 
the language requirement.
EcoGroup
CMU has established an institute for the 
study of environmental problems and to 
advance the education of researchers and 
practitioners in the field.
Known as the Environmental studies 
Institute (ESI), the new interdisciplinary 
organization is offering graduate study pro
grams in the environmental area and will 
develop technology and methods of imple
menting it for the solution of specific prob
lems.
Director of ESI is S. William Gouse, as
sociate dean of CIT and SUPA. Associate 
director is MatthewJ . Reilly, associate pro
fessor of chemical engineering.
The Institute is seeking new know
ledge, including solutions to specific tech
nical problems, as well as imporved com
prehension and understanding of the com
plex interactions between our social, tech
nical, economic and political systems. 
says Dr. Gouse,and is educating profes
sionals who can identify new problems as 
well as resolve old ones.
Gouse points out that although the In
stitute itself does not grant degrees, The 
degree-granting mechanisms of CIT and 
SUPA are flexible enough to permit a va
riety of environmentally-related graduate 
study programs.
Courses focus on air pollution, ecology, 
engineering and environmental systems de
sign, fuel and energy utilization, transport
ation and urban engineering and other sub
jects, and are conducted by CIT, SUPA 
GSIA and the departments of architecture, 
economics, and biological sciences.
In addition the Institute will perform re
search for federal, state and local govern
ments, philanthropic foundations, civic 
groups and organizations and private enter
prise, and sponsor conferences and semi
nars.
Some 50 faculty members and research
er at CMU are on the ESI staff.
judaica
A prominent Pittsburgh businessman 
has endowed a library ofJ udaica at CMU. 
DeanJ . Hirschfield, president ofJ . B. Bern
stein Company and assistant treasurer of 
the United Jewish Federation, has pledged 
$10,000 for acquisition of books onJ ewish 
history, literature, philosophy and other 
areas of J ewish and AmericanJ ewish cul
ture. Directing establishment of the library 
is Richard L. Schoenwald, professor of history, and Erwin R. Steinberg, dean of the 
college of H &SS.
$60,000?
CMU has received a $60,000 grant from 
the National Foundation for development 
of computer techniques for architectural 
design.
The two-year project will be conducted 
by the Institute of Physical Planning, Char
les Eastman, director. Eastman, who is as
sociate professor of architecture and urban 
planning, says that the objective of the pro
ject is the devlopment of computer techni
ques for solving problems of site planning, 
building desing, and equipment arrangment.
Yevtushenko
The International Poetry Forum will 
present the distinguished Russian poet Yev
geny Yevtushenko in a reading of his own 
poems at Heinz Hall on Monday,I anuary 
31, at 830 pm. He will recite his poems in 
Russian and English actor, Barry Boys, will 
read translations in English.
Yevtushenko is 37 years old and one of 
the most influential forces on both Russian 
and American literature and poetry. He has 
been translated into several languages and 
has published five volumes of peotry in the 
United States. His most recent work, Sto
len Apples, has been adapted by some of 
Americas foremost writers and poets : 
J ames Dickey, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Stan
ley C unitz,J ohn Updike, and Richard Vilbur, among others.
Because of his outspoken criticism of 
the Stalinist line in the Soviet Union, Yev
tushenkos writings have been periodically 
suppressed. In 1963 he bypassed the Rus
sian censors to publish A PRECOCIOUS 
AUTOBIOGRAPHY in Paris. Despite sub
sequent pressures in his own country, he 
still managed to have princted such poems 
as Babii Yar in which he openly attacked 
anti-Semitism in Russia. In recent years he 
has continually defended artistic freedom. 
Together with Boris Pasternak and Andrei 
Voznesensky, Yevtushenko has been univ
ersally recognized as a force for the free
dom of poetry in Russia.
In a recent appearance on the Dick 
Cavett Show, he received a standing ova
tion from a typical talk show audience, 
who seemed very surprised that they 
hadnt been bored by a poetry reading.
Despite difficulty with the English lan
guage. he gave a very interesting sensitive 
look at the way Russians view the United 
States.
His appearance with the poetry forum is 
a rare chance to see an unusual sensitive 
and entertaining poetry reading. In New 
York at Madison Square Garden, tickets 
for his reading sold for $10.00. Here, they 
can be purchased at Skibo Information 
Desk for $2.00, $3.25 and $4.50.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  Tartan, Thursday, January 27, 1972
editors notetartan
Anyone intersted in writing news 
articles for the Tartan, especially 
members of CIT, MIS, SPIRIT and 
the College of Fine Arts, please 
contact Frank Cox, Tartan Office, 
Skibo Room 50. Please leave name 
and telephone number.
I have never met you Dr. Stever, and now that you are leaving, it is too 
late. But there are a couple of things Id like to say about my experience at 
your university concerning what you and Dr. Schatz called your goals and 
finest accomplishments.
It seems that one of your ideas was to unite CFA and CIT (MIS as well 
now). You said that it took years of student rebellion to get everyone 
wearing long hair and easy clothes. And now, you cant tell the difference. 
Unfortunately, it is not so easy to eliminate the differences, and the long 
hair is the least of those. Lets be honest about it. CFA and CIT are as 
separate as ever. While the science and engineering departments thrive, 
expand and advance, CFA suffers budget cuts, faculty cuts, lowered admis
sion and continues in cramped, outdated facilities. Departments are split up 
and strewn around the campus, forcing faculty to waste time commuting 
between them, and costing students needed guidance. Even the proposed 
fine arts complex has suffered cut backs before ground is broken.
CIT is now CMU. Hurrah. We are a university, another accomplishment. 
But MMCC is goneone more example of the elimination of womens 
opportunities here-and of the influence of research grants. And we have a 
new $16 million science hall and a clean Doherty Hall. Doesnt that seem a 
little imbalanced?H&SSwhat used to be a department for the use of 
CITis now a full fledged college. But again, faculty is diminishing; the 
humanities are being overprofessionalized, computerized and dehumanized. 
H&SS is open to everyone, including flunk-outs from every other depart
ment. No one really knows what is going on, and what the latest set of 
requirements is, or what the grading system is. Thanks so much for making 
us believe that H&SS was a college, when it is only a department, getting its 
life squeezed out.
But everyone makes mistakes. Student senate president Mike Garl says 
thats why they put erasers on the ends of pencils. Everyone is human, even 
college presidents. You have tried, Dr. Stever, and it does show. At least MIS 
and CIT are strong and thriving, SUPA is getting to its feet, a school of 
environmental studies has just been established and the fine arts complex is 
on the drawing boards. Some few shaky steps are being taken to eliminate 
racial and sexual discrimination here.
I just hope the mistakes werent make in ink. Good luck, Dr. Stever? 
We all need it.
Announcements:
Editor-m-Chief ..........................Jan Rosen
News Editor..............................Frank Cox
Features Editor........................Tom Davis
Sports Editor.............................Jude Heller
Graphics................................Mark Seymour
Photography Editor .............Neal Binstock
Business Manager......................Alice Bright
Entertainment ............Stephen Saunders
Paste-up.................................Arnold Sonn
News Staff...........................JohnAgatston
Renee Banks, Nate Burden 
Grace D'Alo, Anne Friedman 
Mina Gerall, Steve Jurman 
Jon Manon, Bob Stern 
Marilyn Turner 
Features Staff . . . Leslie Bram, Marc Field 
John Gross, Walter Koehler 
Ron Lasser, Terence N. Palso 
Stephen Saunders
Political Commentary ........................Janet
Caroline Levine 
Sports Staff . . . David Aber, Chuck Bond 
Lauren Hutton, Allen Kohan 
Peter Schuller, Jon Swierzewski 
Photography Staff . Eliot Arons, Jay Caras 
Jim Hermann, Roger Lawrence 
Ed Levine
Copy Staff . . Leslie Bram, Marilyn Shenker
Advertising ...........................Chris Sanders
Mike Swartzlander
Published every Thursday during the aca
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, CarnegieMellon University. Telephone (412) 
682-4557.
Alpha Phi Omega would like to apologize to
everyone who paid to ride the Thanksgiving 
Shuttle bus and did not receive a ride or a 
refund. Anyone desiring a refund should 
address a short note to A Phi 0, Box 100, 
CMU giving his name and address. You will 
receive a refund in the mail.
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh will
present Lucy Komisar, author of "The 
New Feminism," in a discussion of the 
issues of women's liberation, as a special 
guest of the Junior Reviewers' Club, 
Monday, January 31, at 4:00 PM, in the 
Central Library Conference Room. For 
those who miss the first program, Ms. 
Komisar will speak at the East Liberty 
Branch on Wednesday, Feb 1, at 8 PM.
Ms. Komisar is a free-lance writer who 
was elected 1969-70 vice-president of the 
National Organization for Women. She 
became a feminist as a result of 
discrimination she encountered while 
seeking employment as a journalist.
A graduate of Queens College of the 
City University of New York, Ms. Komisar 
has held a variety of positions including 
reporter and associate producer for NET 
and as a writer-reporter-producer for WBAI 
radio in NYC.
She has written cover stories for the 
Saturday Review, New York Magazine and 
the Washington Monthly.
These two Carnegie Library programs 
featuring Lucy Komisar, are free to the 
public.
The Metropolitan Opera District Auditions
will be held on Sunday January 30, Fine 
Arts Exhibition Hall at 1:30. The public is 
cordially invited to attend. Applications 
blanks are available from Mrs. Ruth Perry 
Topping, co-chairman, CFA 155.
Interested in a basic red cross first aid
course?Come to Skibo Room 39 to discuss 
scheduling and other details. Monday, Feb
1, 5 PM. Sponsored by Y-office and WDC. 
Course is free to CMU resident women.
Stephanie Coontz will speak in the
series. "Sexism in Society" at CMU in the 
Wherret Room at Skibo Hall at noon, 
Thursday, Feb 3. She will speak on 
"Women and the War-the 
No-Longer-Silent Majority.
Stephanie is a national coordinator of 
the National Peace Action Coalition, which 
initiated and mobilized last year's massive 
April 24th demonstration against the war 
as well as the "Fall Offensive" of October
13 and November 6. Several weeks ago she 
went to Paris to meet with representatives 
of the National Liberation Front of South 
Vietnam and representatives of the 
Democratic Republic of Vietnam.
Federal Service ENtrance Examination to
be held on campus Saturday, Feb. 5, 1972 
at 9:00 AM in Baker Hall 145 B-C. Note: 
Engineers and other technically trained 
individuals need not take the FSEE. 
Complete details and FSEE 
announcements are now available at the 
Bureau of Placements 10, Skibo.
SPS Meeting-There will be an important
meeting of the Society of Physics Students, 
next Wednesday, Feb. 2 at 4:30 PM in SCH 
5427. Membership material will be 
distributed. All members are urged to 
afttend. New members are also welcome.
The American Chemical Society Student
Affiliates are pleased to announce the 
election of new officers for 1972. They 
are: Stephen Macko, President, Regina 
Deluca, Vice-President, and Jeffrey Cahill, 
secretary-treasurer.
People in David Bandler's Literary
Imagination Class last term who want to 
discuss Synge or poetry or whatever, come 
to Baker Hall 229-C at 4:30 next Monday, 
January 31 and we'll do it,
Paintings and lithographs by Alan Cohen
and watercolors, etchings, and 
photo/lithographs by Judy Stone are 
currently on view in the Velar Gallery of 
GSIA at CMU. The Gallery is open to the 
public Monday through Friday from 9 AM 
to 5 PM. The exhibit will continue through 
January 28.
films:
CAMPUS:
CHAPLIN AND KEATON SHORTS. Film 
arts Thursday, January 27, 4:30, 7:00, 
9:30 PM, Porter Hall 100. Admission: film 
arts ticket.
CHARLIE. Activities Board. Friday, 
January 28, 6:15, 8:30, 10:45 PM. DH 
2210. Admission $.50.
THE I PC R ESS FILE. MDC, Saturday, 
January 29, 5:30, 8:00, 10:30 PM. DH 
2210. FREE.
CHATHAM
ORPHANS OF THE STORM (Griffith). 
Thursday, January 27, Coolidge 135, 8:00 
PM FREE
PITT
CHILDREN OF PARADISE. Pangborn 
Film Club. Thursday, January 27, 8:15 
PM. 120 Common Facilities, $.50.
STOLEN KISSES (Truffaut), MISSISSIPPI 
MERMAID. Pangborn film club. Saturday, 
January 29, 7:00, 9:30 PM. 120 Common 
Facilities, $.75.
IKIRU. UCIS, Wednesday February 2, 
8:30 PM 120 Common Facilities, FREE
COMMUNITY
WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA 
WOOLFE? Pittsburgh Playhouse, Jan 
23-29, call for times. Admission $1.00.
CITY LIGHTS (Chaplin). Guild Theater, 
Call for times, admission $1.00 reduction 
for students.
KLONDIKE ANNIE (Mae West). Oakland 
Co-op, Friday January 28, 8, 10 PM. Ad
mission $1.00.
THE CROWD. Carnegie Lecture Hall, Sun
day Jan 30, 7:30 PM, free.
2001. Pittsburgh Playhouse, Jan 30-Feb 5, 
call for times, admission $1.00.
INDEPENDENT FILM MAKER BRUCE 
BAILLIE. Carnegie Lecture Hall. Wednes
day, Feb 2, 8:30 PM, Admission $1.00
TELEVISION:
KING KONG. Channel 2, Thursday, Jan 
27, 11:30 PM.
GRAND ILLUSION (Renoir), Film Odys
sey. Channel 16, Friday, Jan 28 8 PM. 
Channel 13, Saturday Jan 29, 10:15 PM.
THEY CAME FROM BEYOND SPACE 
AND CURSE OF THE CRYING WOMAN. 
Chiller Theater, Channel 11, Saturday, Jan 
29, 12 midnight.
Classified Ads:
Compact refrigerators, bicycles (folding)
sewing machines, typewriters, and desks 
for rent. Call 279-7951 after 6 PM.
'61 Volkswagen Camper-Van, new paint,
rebuilt engine, snow tires, etc. Call 
363-4286.
TEAC A-1200U tape deck, $150;
HEATHKIT AJ-15 tuner, $150; DYNACO 
PAT-4 preamplifier, $80; Sony PS-1800 
turntable $150, for sale. Call Ken Greer, 
421-9481 after 6 PM.

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, January 27, 1972 - Page 3
Letters:
EDITOR'S NOTE:
Dear Friend of a Victim:
We are unable to publish your letter due 
to the possibility of our involving ourselves 
in libel proceedings. If, however, you will 
furnish us with your name, we will print 
your letter.
Editor:
I would like to make two comments 
concerning the dinner Student Government 
gave in honor of Dr. Stever. First, I think it 
is dishonest to the student body for a few 
senators to plan the dinner, have the invita
tions written and sent out, and the plaque 
engraved before most of the other senators 
knew about it and before the majority of 
the Student Government had approved it. 
It is a frightening feeling to know that the 
Student Government can use the students 
money in such a fashion. Hopefully, Stu
dent Senate will investigate this incident 
and take actions against those senators who 
were involved, if in fact they did break 
Senate rules or else pass rules to prevent 
such a thing from happening in the future.
Secondly, I am appalled by Senates use 
of students money to run a closed dinner 
to honor Dr. Stever without first consult
ing the students whom the senators repre
sent as to whether they wanted to honor 
Dr. Stever, and if so, how he should be 
honored. For me, praising an individual is a 
personal matter for the person who is 
doing the praising as well as for whomever 
is being praised. After all, the whole point 
of praising is to thank the person for his 
years of service. Wien the Student Senate, 
as representatives of the student body, 
praises or condemns a person, the students 
should at least be notified beforehand, and 
should presumably have a say in deciding 
whether or not it is a good idea and how it 
should be done. Furthermore, in the Con
stitution it says the senators are elected to 
supervise and coordinate . .. extra-cur
ricular activities and to be responsible 
for the finances of student activities. This 
means that Student Government has the 
authority to pass judgment on student or
ganizations and on studetn actions that af
fect the university, but to honor somebody 
is more noteworthy than to be called an 
extra-curricular activity. For respect to the 
student body, the Studetn Government 
should have first consulted the students 
before deciding this matter for us.
Michael Jones
Editor:
I was unusually upset when I attended 
the showing of the last of the AB film series. 
The last segment of Space Soldiers Con
quer the Universe was not shown. I under
stand that there were only 14 chapters to the 
series and number 13 was repeated for week
14 so that the final part could be shown 
week 15. This was not done. Flash Gordon is 
my inspiration to conquer the evils in my life 
and, consequently, without his final victory, 
i tailed ALL of my finals, for I do worry that 
Ming might get Flash and his omnipotent 
forces. In the midst of my anguish, I do have 
one compliment to offer, the director made 
a very judicious choice for the theme song : 
Les Preludes by Liszt ( Symphonic Poem
3).
I surely hope if the AB assumes any more 
responsibilities I cannot fulfill, that it makes 
ammends before finals.
After failing finals and superfluous allit
eration, I remain,
FGs one-member fan club
Editor:
I find it absolutely challenging that food 
service has hired a phatom food nark. It 
used to be no fun to just steal food and 
dishes from Skibo; now it takes advanced 
skills to evade this all too subtle person. 
Some, unfortunately, try to jest this gentle 
joist of justice by pretending childishly to 
conceal stolen goods. These people, how
ever, must be rather intelligent by just 
being able to single out this pervious pana
cea for preventing thefts. He is, to some 
degree, inconspicuous, being apparelled in 
coat and tie. I hereby request strict obser
vance of food service regulations on the 
part of each studentthen a food nark 
would not be needed, and, more import
ant, I would be able to digest more deci
dedly the delectable delicacies at dinner 
without the discipfes of the devil dispersing 
my diet.
A disemboweled 
diarrhea dodger
Editor:
The Sarah Lawrence College W)mens 
Group is extending an invitation to you 
and all members of your community to 
attend a Womens Weekend February 
11-13.
The weekend will consist of lectures, 
workshops and activities dealing with the 
womens movement. Topics of dicussion 
will include women in the arts, women in 
professions, women in government, and 
women and their health. W shall be show
ing films from the Newsreel Co-op and 
IC ate Millets Three Lives. On Saturday 
night there will be a womens dance (the 
only activity from which men are excluded 
in the entire weekend). There will be no 
charge for any events during the weekend.
Please publicize the womens weekend 
in your community. For further details, 
contact us :
The Sarah Lawrence Womens Group 
Sarah Lawrence College 
Bronxville, New York 10708
Wfc would appreciate knowing how 
many participants we may expect from 
your community.
Alison Brown 
Maureen Paley
Editor:
Enclosed is a copy of my statement as a 
Presidential candidate. I am appealing to 
the younger voters of the nation as well as 
the others. I have filed for petition from 
Mr. Green of the Penna. Dept, of State and 
will be on the ballot in November if I can 
get enough signatures. 1 feel the young vot
ers want the same changes that I have been 
working for the last 36 years. I also feel 
they are embracing the wrong vehicles in 
the Democratic and Republican parties. 
The men in these parties can only make 
promises they can not keep because of 
party loyalties. I have several plans that 
would give the Government back to the 
people so we would not have unwanted 
legislation forced down our throats. If we 
can get enough College voters across the 
nation behind our cause we can implement 
these changes even though my chances of 
winning are nil. Change is the name of the 
game and we must work together to effect 
them. If we do not assert ourselves now 
whne we have this opportunity we are all 
the losers. I will gladly sign a contract with 
the people to prove my sincerity in this 
matter. Would you please the student body 
of registered voters to send me a card or 
letter stating that they want me to run for 
President and to sign their name and ad
dress to that effect?They do not have to 
vote for me to do this but it would show 
the powers that be that a person who really
cares can run for President. I feel that we 
should stop all Foreign Aid until there is 
no need for Native Aid. I believe all mili
tary forces should be returned to this 
Country at once and never be used on For
eign soil again. Please help me in this mat
ter and I assure you that you will be help
ing yourselves.
You may not have heard of me yet but 
you will. The National Media is slow pick
ing it up but I am working on it. I am going 
to suggest that everyone mail letters to the 
National Chairmen of both Major Parties 
saying, All candidates must sign contracts 
with the People to keep their campaign 
promises or be removed from office forth
with. Mail to the Convention sites when 
they convene next summer. Tell all your 
friend and have them tell all their friends 
and we can bury them under an avalanche 
of letter. Vox Populi Rules. I would be 
glad to speak to the students if arrange
ments could be made.
Arden Rogers
STATEMENT :
I am a blue coliar worker employed by 
K imK raft Business Forms Erie, Pa. I am a 
Photo-lithographer-engraver certified by 
the Master Printers Section of Printing In
dustries of America. I am married to Vir
ginia Rogers RN and am the father of six 
children. Vincent age 27 Doctor of Medicin, Captain US Air Force; Daniel age 26 
employed in the management division of 
Bell tlelphone Co.; Mark age 25 student at 
Gannon College Erie, 4 year veteran US Air 
Force, J apan Vietnam; Ted age 19 student 
male nurse at St. Vincent Hospital, Erie; 
J oan age 18 student nurse at St. Vincent 
Hospital, Erie; Matthew is a Saint in Heav
en at age 3.
I was born in Erie, Pa. December 12, 
1914. I am a candidate for the office of 
President of the United States. I realize I 
have no chance of winning the election but 
I feel we have candidates forced upon us 
by conventional farce whereby they must 
make concessions to various cliques and 
lobbies. The Presidential candidate pool 
has a high coliform count. So far they have 
pulled out a millionaire playboy trading on 
a name, debonair opportunist mayors who 
could not handle their own big cities, a 
Congressional Dictator and the only thing I 
have seen caught from the pool that iw 
worth keeping was a Muskie.
I hope by my running to remind the 
main contenders that they will be repre
senting the common people who by their 
sheer numbers pay the bulk of taxes and 
bills of this country. I will ask questions 
and hopefully get answers that the little 
man has never abeen able to in a President
ial campaign before. I will bring out issues 
that the other cannot for fear of stepping 
on toes. They are handicapped in this area 
for fear of North, South, East, West, lob
bies, labor, etc.
The main plank in my platform will be 
to given the government back to the people 
as they have not had it since the early days 
of the Town Hall Meetings. We have grown 
so large and so populous that the com
munications barrier does not allow the will 
of the people to be known. We are all tired 
of being forced by so few to accept and do 
things against our will such as fighting 
Froeign wars, school bussing, etc. Our gov
ernment was set up to be run by the will of 
the majority but has not been in my life
time.
We need a shot in the arm or blood tran
sfusion to help our sagging economy. The 
President has a bill languishing under the 
heels of Wilbur Mills in the W&ys and 
Means Committee that would do the trick 
but Mr. Mills does not like it. Mills can and 
does hold up bills to suit his own purpose 
and his purpose on this one is to further his 
ambitions for the Presidency. We need this 
bill enacted into law right now and not
next year. I feel the seniority system in
Congress must go. One Congressman or 
Senator must not be more p6werful than 
another.
I feel that Labor Unions have gone too 
far. They at one time did much good for
the working man but now they have cut
open the goose that laid the Golden egg 
and have only found a bloody mess. I shall 
have many issues and suggestions as the 
campaign goes on. I have no backers or 
money to conduct an extensive campaign 
so it wil be an uphill fight all the way.
Editor:
H&SS students are presently concerned 
about altering the present Honors/Cred
it/No Enentry grading system. If it is estab
lished that H/C/NE does, infact, impede en
trance into graduate schools due to its non
conformity and its inability to be evaluated 
by a computer, there does exist an alterna
tive to conventional grading. A modified 
Mastery System of grading might be institu
ted as an alternative.
Under the Mastery System a minimum 
standard of achievement is predetermined 
for the course. Upon fulfilling these set cri
teria a student achieves B work. If the 
student fails to adequately complete any 
area of course material, she/he earns a No 
entry grade. He/she may take the exam (or 
papers) a second time without penalty. No 
third attempt is provided for, as a heavy 
burden would be placed on faculty to devise 
numerous retakes.
Thus, completion of work at the set cri
teria level earns the student a B. Failure is 
considered No entry. At the professors 
discretion, a student who does outstanding 
work or extra work may receive an A 
grade.
Like the Honors/Credit/No entry system 
the Mastery System places emphasis on the 
individuals learning of course material, it 
de-emphasizes inter-student competition 
and encourages cooperation, it eliminates 
the anxieties evoked by traditional grading 
methods, and it does not recognize F or 
R grades. Also, upon the students re
quest, written evaluations could be provided 
by faculty. Unlike oiir present system, it 
utilizes traditional letter grades (A, B, NE) 
and provides quantifiable information for 
graduate schools.
Because of its flexibility the Mastery 
System may well solve our special problems.
Mina Gerall

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - Tartan, Thursday, January 27, 1972
Pendrelljust the facts...682-5200film: : : :
Mina Gerall
Dr. Nan Pendrell, a 67 year old Asso
ciate Professor of Anthropology at Chat
ham College announced that she had filed a 
complaint on her own behalf in the US Dis
trict Court for the Wfestern District of 
Pennsylvania. The defendants named in the 
suit are Chatham College, President Ed
ward D. Eddy, the College Board of Trus
tees, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, 
the College Provost and Dr.J ames Diggory, 
Chairman of the College Faculty Commit
tee on Promotion and Tenure.
I have instituted this action, Professor 
Pendrell said, not merely to retain my 
teaching post, but also to make public in so 
far as I can, the patent misuse of adminstrative powers at the College. Students 
and faculty, as well as all other sections of 
the staff, suffer from a virtual curtain of 
secrecy which also obstructs the publics 
right to know what occurs at an education
al institution to which their taxes contri
bute.
Although Chatham receives funds from 
Government sources, it discriminates on at 
least three counts : male students are not 
accepted as degree candidates; there is an 
impermissible negative ration of women 
Faculty members, especially in the higher 
and tenured ranks; grave under-representa
tion of ethnic minorities on both faculty 
and in administration is clear and overt, 
she continued. Until these conditions are 
eliminated, I request the cessation of the 
construction on this campus, of theJ ennie 
King Mellon Library complex, which is 
funded partially by HEW Pittsburgh pa
rents might wish to ponder the fact that a 
multi-million dollar library complex is 
being built here for the 625 or so students 
of Chatham College, which is scarcely a 
mile away from the Hillman and Carnegie 
libraries, while the last high school was 
built in Pittsburgh almost half a century 
ago, and whil so many elementary school 
pupils must go to schools which are even 
older than fifty years.
Dr. Pendrell is being dismissed allegedly 
due tp her age. She was hired as an associ
ate professor by Dr. Eddy when she was 64 
years old. She was appointed Head of the 
Sociology-Anthropology Department at 
age 65, the normal age for retirement. 
Upon her appointment as Department 
head, Dr. Eddy adhered to a Faculty 
Manual statement obviating age as a com
pulsory retirement condition in rare and 
unusual circumstances. According to 
Chatham students, alumnae,
anthropologists around the country and 
concerned citizens in the Pittsburgh com
munity, Dr. Pendrell is being dismissed for 
political reasons.
At her press conference Dr. Pendrell 
concluded that she had been denied an op
portunity to plead her case before the Fa
culty Committee on Tenure and Promo
tion, or before the President, faculty of 
Board of Trustees. She said,I am being 
asked to abide by a coercive communica
tion from President Eddy, in deprivation of 
my rights to due process.
Dr. Pendrells student supporters believe 
her retirement should be reconsidered. In 
their newspaper they listed their reasons 
for retaining Dr. Pendrell. Some of thos 
reasons were :
1. Dr. Pendrells unusual academic quali
fications. (She began her college education 
when she was 52 years old, and received 
her PhD in only ten years. She greduated 
Magna Cum Laude, Phi Beta Kappa, and 
Phi BetaK appa Student of the year.)
2. Dr. Pendrells support and respect as 
a professor and scholar by those within and 
outside of anthropology.
3. Dr. Pendrell is one of the few women 
employed at Chatham, a womens college.
4. Dr. Pendrells contribution to the im
plementation of four new courses; her de
votion to the College (criteria in the deci
sion of tenure).
5. Dr. Pendrells concern for student 
, nd their rights, both black and white, and
er concern for the Pittsburgh Community.
6. Dr. Pendrell taught Black adults in 
lomewood-Brushton without pay.
Since Dr. Eddy has failed to issue a staement clarifying Dr. Pendrells coerced re
tirement, the question must now be ans
wered by the Court.
Anne Friedman
Did you ever get the feeling of being 
pushed around or that questions you asked 
werent being answered?Did you ever get 
the feeling that the answers were eloquent
ly state, (almost too practiced) but never 
said anything tangible'iDne begins to lose a 
faith in words.
My first assignment as a reporter for the 
TARTAN was based on a news release 
concerning a million dollar grant to H&SS 
from the Mellon Foundation. President 
Stever commented in a news release that 
this substantial grant would be used for 
many ideas now in infant form and that 
the grant has been designated for long term 
faculty support and library acquisations. 
All of this sounded very vague and my as
signment was to find out exactly where the 
money would go, how it would be budget
ed and what specific ideas it might be used 
to develop.
I was quite enthusiastic about doing this 
after talking to a woman in admissions who 
gave me many so-called leads. I believed 
I was going to get the facts. However, the 
rest of the search went down hill steadily. 
A man in the development office was very 
nice and very cordial (everyone I saw was 
cordial) yet he told me nothing. In fact he 
ended up interviewing me. Dean Stein
berg, he said, was the man to see.
My interview with Dr. Eastman was 
more successful. He said that $100,000 was 
definitedly going to be used for library ac
quisitions. The money was also being consi
dered for further developing the philoso
phy department. Experimental courses, a 
greater use of films, a systematic evaluation 
of departments, and subsidation for stu
dents were many of the other ideas. Yet 
Dr. Eastman was clear in pointing out to 
me that all of these were ideas, and not 
much was definited outside of the 
$100,000 to the library. Once again, I was 
told to see Dean Steinberg.
For a man who was supposed to have 
the much awaited facts, he was extremely 
evasive. We talked of financial problems in 
universities throughout the country, the 
importance of the grant and of library ac
quisitions. He told me of the difficulty in 
deciding priorities in a college. Wfe both 
agreed it took a lot of work, (just as getting 
down to specifics does.)
In attempting to write this article I real
ized that my facts were at a minimum and 
there were still many questions to be ans
wered. Practically nothing was mentioned 
about faculty salaries. In talking to one fa
culty member I learned that the salary 
scale was low, in fact in some cases lower 
than Pitt. The same teacher also said that 
the benefits in library acquisitions for 
undergrads would be minimal, since the li
brary acquisitions would be geared to aid 
study.
Someone also suggested that when a col
lege gets a grant, their budget for next year 
is decreased by the quantity of the grant. I 
wonder if this is ture; no one seems to have 
any substantial answers.
Facts dont seem to be the outcome of 
speech. One hears words put so nicely, yet 
what good is done if nothing is said*Must 
it be that one has to search through the 
words to find the truth! dont know; but 
this reporter has become disillusioned. My 
case illustrates that obtaining just the 
facts can be a difficult task.
SCOTTY'S
3911 FORBES AVENUE 
791 PENN AVENUE 
and ROUTE 8, 
NORTH OF ETNA
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 24 HOURS A DAY
Between Classes 
or at Study Break
PITTSBURGH SWITCHBOARD 
The Peoples Hotline
For almost two years, the people of 
Pittsburgh have been able to use a new and 
remarkable telephone hotline and survival 
service called Switchboard. Wfe have an
swered over 30,000 calls since we got start
ed. Wfe can turn you on to many possible 
alternatives to the hassles of day to day 
survival where it seems nobody cares.
The reason we started Switchboard was 
because we felt that many other service 
agencies had failed to provide a method for 
people even to begin to dig their way out 
from under the pit of shit that is heaped 
upon their doorsteps each dya. The opera
tors who answer the phones have no special 
training except that we too have experi
enced many of the same problems as the 
people we try to serve.
When we talk to a person who cant find 
work or a place to stay we know what its 
like because weve had the smae experi
ence. The job or crash pad that we suggest 
might not be fantastic but at least its better 
than nothing. When a caller is fucked up 
about schools or personal relationships, we 
know how it feels because we also have felt 
in a similar way.
A fundamental principle behind Switch
board is that the caller doesnt have the 
problem but instead the problem lies in a 
society that is indifferent to the evils it cre
ates. Wfe wont try to reshape the caller 
into a model generated by an IBM machine 
but instead we try to offer alternatives that 
will allow the caller to continues to func
tion as a human being.
Wfe feel that the operators greatest asset 
is being human. It is this humanness that is 
most important in handling calls. It is this 
human feeling that is most needed in our 
lives today.
Switchboard is financed by donations, 
mostly from our own pockets. All con
tributions are most welcome. New opera
tors are always needed 
Wfe need your help. All people are welcome 
to join. Remember, if you have a problem, 
call 682-5200. If you have spare bread, 
please lay it on us. Always remember
682-5200. The Peoples Hotline.
PITTSBURGH SWITCHBOARD 
PO BOX 7585 
Pittsburgh Pa. 15213
Jim Oppenheimer
Film has been hailed as one of the newest 
and most contemporary forms of artistic 
expression. In recent years filmmaking has 
come from being the near exclusive realm of 
Hollywood to a point where some of the 
most original, exciting and successful films 
are being produced by students and indepen
dents. Increasing numbers of people are dis
covering film as a creative medium in which 
to communicate ideas and articulate feel
ings.
Interest in film and more specifically 
filmmaking has been growing steadily in the 
past few years at CMU. More and more 
people are becoming involved in filmmmaking activities, as demonstrated by last 
years film festival. Despite this, there has 
been little in the way of organized film
making on campus and filmmmaking oppor
tunities have been limited.
The newly formed CMU Film Workshop 
hopes to remedy this situation by providing 
the equipment to produce films, encourag
ing communication among campus film
makers and giving help to novices. With the 
aid of student government, the workshop 
has purchased two Bauer super 8 cameras 
and related film equipment, which theyve 
begun to lend out this semester. In addition, 
theyve exchanged film ideas among mem
bers and have arranged talks by speakers 
with knowledge in film.
The workshop hopes more people inte
rested in film (whether theyve had filmmaking experience or not) will take advan
tage of the workshop and its resources. The 
workshop is open to anyone at CMU and has 
a membership fee of $2.50. What the work
shop can further accomplish will depend on 
student support and participation.
Their first meeting of the semester will be 
held on Monday J anuary 24th in room 45 of 
Skibo. The film An Occurance at Owl 
Creek Bridge will be shown along with 
workshop films. Anyone interested is in
vited. For further information drop a line to 
the Film Wbrkshop, Skibo 103.
DllAFT
IAY 
W1
lTFllY:
D.
Fill
2.
wa
frie
IUUJAUY
it with a 
ind.

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, January 27, 1972 - Page 5
cheechwizard revisited 
f
r
tt. \t seetHs 
was some adverse 
reacVicws -to 
weete
W'e e*\e about* *V\e
fljNOPOSV\WV<7 VAzaVt^; 
^/ve 'ouVtev^y - fcyhvtff 
\izard, av<i -tfse 
aote-ecoVio vw.a\e^
^KPrƻ'e
CxAoe*\ w&S
cUUVm&Ho 
eicpVo\V^H\/e CMU
 w\vw so\m^6
, -KaV
rVCvts yfVvo fOV"
^ were Cl well...
... r\ow/ ( wMvoOVtecoujuu^ ico s^ - 
dc,{^we...
 we would \usfVvVce -fo ask....
VAAV^ UUoUAew
o yo kjMvxy w(/\o 
ve eyp\cxVe^ 
aV>J*eo
by InVs ?
* -vte d^suY^rVy 
becowwes obv'iooS
now, we AnnyoAe
like 1e ^>oloc(ize 
iti avi ^Aose
o^evAdcd
wfcy a r^V f 
+W<S - Kte
wouj^a^
if -^es *
we wovC V 
do vVac^aA
do a^ricki 
cJrveeck,.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - Tartan, Thursday, January 27, 1972
THE UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL ORGANIZATION
a specialized agency of the United Nations dedicated to peace 
and
THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY
a non-profit non-political organization dedicated to helping students to help themselves 
offer
STUDY ABROAD$ 6 value
Paris, France, 1972 644 Pages
$1.50 value
$ 5 value
5T
"Your reference service 
saved me much valuable 
time which / put in on 
other subjects. Result: 5 
As and 1 B. "
CN. Ann Arbor, Mich
'The Vantage Point" is a 
book put together by 5 
ghost writers and edited 
by LBJ. Your reference 
service is almost like my 
own personal ghost writer.
LC, Gainesville, Fla.
"The 3 reference books 
of which every student 
needs personal copies 
are Study Abroad, a 
good dictionary and 
thesaurus. / got a $10,000 
4-year scholarship from 
Study Abroad."
AR, Berkeley, Calif.
 New 19th Edition Each copy is trilingual 
in English, French and 
Spanish
The most complete scholarship directory in the world lists more 
than 234,000 scholarships, fellowships, loans and grants in more than 129 countries or territories! Tells who is eligible, fields of 
study, financial assistance, HOW, WHEN AND WHERE TO APPLY! Reflects the latest scholarship approach costed by 
financial need!
VACATION STUDY ABROAD
 Each copy is trilingual in English, French and Spanish
More and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer 
vacations, and an increasing proportion is young Americans! With 
the price war now raging on overseas airfares, record-breaking 
numbers of young Americans will surge across Europe this 
summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified people will go free! Provides information on short courses, 
seminars, summer schools, scholarships and travel grants available each year to students, teachers and other young people and adults 
planning to undertake study or training abroad during their 
vacations. These data were provided by some 500 organizations in 
54 countries!
STUDENT AID SOCIETY membership dues. Services offered:
 Scholarship information service.Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide! Travel service.
Plans interesting tours to exotic lands! Reference Service.
Drafts term papers, essays, book reports, theses, etc. frequently using primary sources available only in the 
Library of Congress! We do not actually write the finished 
assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable educational experience and defeat the very purpose for 
writing for oneself in the first place. We will provide 
background information and bibliographies which rank 
with such tools as the College Outline Series and encyclo
paedia reference services available only with expensive sets. Limit of one draft at small additional charge, per semester 
per student in good standing. We cannot answer any 
question which we feel requires the advice of a doctor, lawyer, architect, engineer, or other licensed practitioner, 
nor can we advise concerning your financial investments. 
Neither can we undertake market research or surveys or 
provide home study courses.
j Student Aid Society, PO Box 39042 j Friendship Station, Washington, D.C. 20016
I Gentlemen: I enclose $6 for Study Abroad, 
j Vacation Study Abroad and annual dues.
I Name____________________________________
Address
I City, State.IZipANGELA OAVtS TAKES YOU ON A TOUR OF THE BIG HOUSE
CRIME IN THE STREETS!
Or, just off the streets, at local newsstands 
everywhere, the February issue of the National 
Lampoon. Go on the pad with Dick Tracy; 
thrill to a whodunit by Edward Gorey; take on 
GM with Ralph Nader, public eye; recoil in 
terror from Chairman Fu-Manchu; relive the 
golden age of the Mafia in the Cosa Nostra 
Comic; and let Angela Davis take you on a 
tour of the Big House. All in the Crime issue 
of the National Lampoon, on sale today.
Harry J. Sirockman
At the debate between conservative co
lumnist J ames K ilpatrick and radical law
yer Wiliam K unstler both men used the 
proposed topic Resolved : the recent rul
ings of the Supreme Court tend to protect 
criminals at the expense of lawabiding citi
zens and society in general, to spring
board into a general discussion of law inAmerica today.
K ilpatrick began the debate with a 
twenty minute speech in which he did, for 
the most part, stay within the bounds of 
the debate topic. He criticized the Wirren 
Court for placing unreasonable burden 
on the State to prove a persons guilt and 
for tipping the balance of law in favor of 
the accused. To substantiate his allegation 
K ilpatrick referred to the case of Miranda 
vs. Arizona in which the Supreme Court 
ruled that the state must inform the arrest
ee of his constitutional rights : 1. anything 
you say can be used against you in a court 
of law. 2. you have a right to remain silent. 
3. you have a right to the presence of a 
lawyer. 4. if you can not afford an attor
ney one will be appointed for you prior to 
any questioning if you so desire.
In answering Mr. K ilpatrick, Wiliam 
K unstler began his remarks by stating, I 
hate the law. It is the control mechanism 
of the ruling state. As for the Miranda 
warnings, K unstler said that the warnings 
were an example of the high sounding 
phraseology of our mythology, and that 
they already had been overthrown by a 
more recent Supreme Court ruling which 
gave the power to decide the viability of 
criminal confessions to the jury. K unstler 
further stated that the trickling of rights 
of the \^rren Court was negligible in 
comparison to the rights we had in 
1830, when the juries were allowed to de
cide the law as well as the facts of a case, 
with the result that if the defendant was 
guilty according to the law, but the jury 
thought the law to be unjust, the defen
dant would be found not guilty. Also, the 
spokesman for the radical Left spoke out 
against the law because it is for the protect
ion of the rich rather than for the preserva
tion of liberty for all.
After the two twenty minute speeches 
each man was given a set of written ques
tions from the audience. K unstler 
prompted the most heated discussion of 
the evening by criticizing President Nixons
Parking: Full
Marc Elliott Field
Every student at CMU who owns a car 
knows that this university has a parking 
problem. It centers around too many cars 
and not enough parking spaces. If your 
first class is at 10 30 or later you may as 
well forget about parking. Even if you have 
gone to the security office and obtained a 
permit for the Skibo or Hill Dorm meter 
lots, you wont find any spaces.
I spoke with the director of security 
Ron Taylor and the assistant director Mr. 
Van Riper to try to find a solution to the 
great parking crisis. The system works in 
the following way : Faculty pay $20 to 
park in the clased areas behind the gates 
but they may park anywhere. Resident stu
dents pay $20 and they may park in the
latest Supreme Court appointees, especially 
the views of Lewis F. Powell as presented 
in an article published by the FBI--He 
blames everything on communism. In 
response the noted writer said that he did 
not get the same impression from the arti> 
cle at all, that Mr. Powell has been a close 
friend for 25 years, and that r he would 
make a fine Supreme CourtJ ustice.
In answering one of the other questions 
which the audience asked him, K ilpatrick 
prompted a few cries of outrage from the 
audience when he said that the adminstrations war policies were irrelevant to the 
issue of criminal behavior by the May day 
people. However, no marshmallows were 
thrown.
K unstler also commented on the 
Berrigan conspiracy trial :it is being held in 
Eastern Pennsylvania because there are no 
Catholics, no schools, and no Blacks near
by; on the appeal from the Chicago 7 trial : 
The hearings are scheduled to be heard on 
the 8th and 9th of February, but he is not 
going to plead the appeal himself. He is, 
however, going to send a letter to that Fed
eral District Court telling the J udges on 
that court to do what they damn well .> 
pleas.; on Angela Davis :She is seriously 
ill with a nervous condition and may not 
live to stand trial; on H. Rap Brown : 
There is a rumor that he has been castra
ted. I can assure you that there has been no 
change in that part of his anatomy; and, 
on his presidential preferences; I would 
like to see Philip Berrigan become presi
dent. I could vote for Bobby Seale, Dick 
Gregory, also. ,
In his closing remarks Mr. K unstler 
stated  Lead us in justice and there will be 
no need to disobey the law. But Mr.Kil
patrick did not agree. The issue is whether 
we sjay free. Wfe stay free only under the 
law.
The debate itself may not have been 
very exciting, but the change in Wiliam 
K unstler since Pall, 1971 (the last time he 
had spoken at Carnegie Music Hall) was 
indeed striking. Wien he spoke then he was 
just telling the people of the repression 
which exists in this country. But now after 
Attica and the other tragedies which he has 
witnessed, he told this reporter, Im a lot 
tougher now. I am not going to fuck 
around in the courts, in the streets, or 
anywhere.
Morewood lot. Fraternity members pay 
$20 and they may park in their own lots, 
or if full, in Morewood. All commuters 
may get a permit (free) for meter lots and 
they just have to feed the meters. It is this 
last group of commuters who make up the 
vast majority who cannot find parking. 
There are 330 meters in the Skibo lot all of 
which are reserved for students except 50 
which are for staff hardship cases, decided 
by the security office. Tfie remaining 280 
spaces are inadequate.
Wien 1 spoke with Chief Taylor I men
tioned that there were at least 150 empty 
spaces in the Morewood lot every day. 
There is usually a security guaid at the lot 
entrances to keep those without permits 
out. Mr. Taylor then produced a sheet of 
figures which his officers compiled that

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, January 27, 1972  Page 7
PARKING CONTD
showed that there are 271 to 281 empty 
spaces between 10 AM and 2 PM at Morewood.
Wiy cant these spaces be used? The 
main objection is that the fine arts building 
is to go up any day now (didnt they say 
that three years ago} and if new permits 
were to be issued they would only have to 
be revoked.
Yet the security office is trying to do 
everything they can to create more parking 
for the students. Mr. Taylor has hired three 
students on PIRG to review the parking si
tuation and make recommendations. The 
three main areas the students are working 
in are :
1. Suggestions on the current parking 
point system which determines seniority 
in issueing permits.
2. How more parking spaces can be 
created.
3. The encouragement of non-automo
tive traffic such as bicycles and the crea
tion of adequate bicycle parking.
The worst consequence a student may 
suffer for violating the regulations is get
ting his car towed. According to section 
1021.1 of the Commonwealth of Pa. Ve
hicle Code cars will be towed for parking 
on lawns, sidewalks, driveways, loading 
zones, lot entrances, on metered or other 
area without sticker, movement lanes, firelanes, delivery zones, parking line so as to 
take up more than one space, or where 
otherwise directed or posted by Security 
Office, is subject to tow upon first viola
tion. According to CMlTs General regula
tions, Towing is done by Stuckerts. Any 
car towed will be taken to Stuckerts, loca
ted atForbes and Bouquet. Cost will be 
$12.00 towing, plus $1.50 per day stor
age. Three or more tickets for parking 
without a valid permit will result in your 
car being impounded.
The only way we will be able to secure 
parking for ourselves is to let the university 
know we need it. There is a Parking Com
mittee at this school which meets about 
every three months which should be made 
aware of the inadequate student parking. 
The priority list which they have composed 
for special parking doesnt even include 
students. Extra permits should be given out 
for the Morewood lot. There are at least 
200 extra spaces which could be used. Fa
culty parking should also be made available 
to the students when there is additional 
space.
As Chief Taylor told me, If the stu
dents dont look out for themselves, no 
one else will.
Collins.
(Time : 9 45 PM) DAY: J anuary 20, 
1972. The State of the Union address was 
broadcast earlier. The world continues de
spite Nixon. SCENE : Five people are sit
ting in a dormitory room toking up. They 
have problems to do in their courses, but 
they say theywork better stone. Outside 
the room there is a door leading out of the 
building. It has been locked and chained 
since the semester began. Nobody has bo
thered to remove the chains or the bars, 
thus eliminating a convenient entrance to 
the room. Further down the hall, there is a 
square spot on the carpet where a drinking 
fountain that never quite worked stagnated 
and was removed. Now there is none at all. 
In the bathroom, only two shower heads 
have enough pressure in them to be able to 
be used. The other two trickle. In the room 
next to the five, an electrical outlet shorts 
out for no reason. Of course, the person in 
that room can hear everything going on 
next door because of the well-constructed 
walls. He calls the local security office and 
reports narcotics usage. Security tells him 
to join them and forget it. One of the 
people opened a window in order to warm 
up the room. It is 28 degrees outside, with 
marginal amounts of heat being given off 
through the registers. J ust enough to keep 
the registers warm. Although the persons 
who live in the room have been back since 
J anuary 10, their books and guitars are on 
the beds, the shelves bare, the trash barrels 
full, the room ready and waiting to be 
cleaned over Christmas vacation. The resi
dents have left the stuff where it lays as a 
form of protest. Four of the five, now 
quite stoned, cook their own food some
where. The fifth is still on food contract 
but never eats because the cafeteria food is 
too rich. They call up for munchies. Sud
denly, there is a sharp knock at the door. 
Pipe out, dope away, window open, door 
unlocked, and there at the entrance is a 
pudgy man with a til hat, a walking stick, 
and a deck of marked cards stamped Carnegie-Mellon University. He speaks.
MAN : Never give a sucker an even 
break.
Best\Worst
Walter Koehler
The end of J anuary may be late for this 
sort of thing, but since my colleague in the 
film department got away with it, I de 
cided to get up a years best list for the 
rock/jazz field.
BEST ALBUMS :
' The Allman Brothers Band Live at Fillmore East leads the pack. Here, finally, is a 
group that achieves a true blend of rock 
and jazz, something many groups have 
feebly attempted, but was best left to these 
boys from Macon, Georgia.
Rod Stewarts Every Picture Tells a 
Story isnt quite as strong as his previous 
offerings, but this haystack-head mod from 
England has a way with writing his own 
songs and performing those of others that 
cant be beat. Its too bad that his albums 
with the Faces havent been nearly as good.
Another solo singer who from time to 
time releases albums for the listening de
light of a small circle of fans in Van Morri
son, and his Tupelo Honey is perhaps the 
best of a series of superior albums.
Muddy Niters, king of the Chicago 
bluesmen, released a set of greatest hits 
that is invaluable to any and all blues 
freaks. MdC inley Morganfield /*. A Muddy 
Witers contains the very best work of this 
master of dirty down home electric blues.
BUMMER RELEASE has got to be E. 
Pluribus Funk and its single, Foot Stompin Music. Its really a shame that, when so 
many talented musicians are struggling for 
a break, these three musical decademts are 
raking in millions from one-chord songs 
like Foot-stompin Music.
Maybe its not the best music being 
played, but the Bangla Desh Concert LP is 
significant, both for gathering the most in
fluential musicians in rock on one stage,
and for its conception as a goodwill benefit 
for those who are the victims of perhaps 
the worst series of disasters and calamities 
in history-the Pakistani refugees.
BEST GROUP of the year should be the 
Allman Brothers Band. J ust as they were 
receiving the national recognition they de
serve, they lost their supremely talented 
lead guitarist Duane Allman in a tragic 
motorcycle crash. They are now planning 
to continue with Dicky Betts taking over 
all the guitar work.
This year we had quite a few good con
certs in Pittsburgh. Most noteworthy 
among them were the Grateful Dead last 
April at the Civic Arena, Rod Stewart and 
Faces in J uly, Leon Russell and Roberta 
Flack in October, CMlFs homecoming con
cert with the Allman Brothers, and perhaps 
the best of them all, B. B.King at CMUs 
spring carnival concert last April.
As far as jazz music was concerned, new 
albums by Don Ellis and continuing re-re
leases of Coltrane tapes were the most in
teresting recordings. And concert tours to 
Europe by Duke Ellington and a pick up 
band called the Giants of J azz, with such 
amateurs as Dizzy Gillespie, Thelonious 
Monk, and Charles Mingus, meant some of 
the best American jazz was being played 
overseas.
Coming up, watch for Traffic/Edgar 
Winter, sure to be a great show tomorrow 
night. LeoK ottke, one of the best acoustic 
guitarists Ive ever heard, appears at the 
Pitt Student Union for free tomorrow 
night. J esus Christ Superstar will be playing 
a week at Heinz Hall. Also dont miss the 
CMU College/Community Orchestra with 
Harry Franklin, guest artist performing 
Bachs Brandenburg Concerto number 5, 
coming soon at Carnegie Music Hall.
cmderthistl 
hand knitting yams
812 ivy street 
shadyside
Th Largest Selection off 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobacco* and Pipe* 
in the City.
BRIAR BOWL
3715 FOKUS ST.Ul-045
Nationally Advertised Pipes
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
DRAFT COUNSELING
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL FOUNDATION 
315 South Bellefield Avenue 
3rd Floor
Every Tuesday Evening
7:00 to 9:00 p*m.
621-8875
alberts hosiery shop
announces it's
Student DISCOUNT CARDS
iiiiiiiiiMitiiiiiiiiHiiKiKiiiiiaiiiiiiuaiiaiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiii
10% Discount On Any Pur
chase of Women's Hosiery!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiaiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMaiiiiKiiiiKiiiiiiiitiiiii
326 FIFTH AVE.
for further information:
phone: 471-1005
JOES PIZZA
is now delivering
Compare Our Prices
9" PIZZA ............................80
12" PIZZA ........................1.40
Extras  .25 and .30
'SANDWICHES*
HOAGIE ...............................80
HAM .....................................65
MEAT BALL...........................50
HOT SAUSAGE ..................50
CHEESE..................................35
SODAS ..................................20
Delivery Charge to Dorms: 
? .35 ?
CALL: 621-3223
4800 Baum Boulevard
DICTIONARIES 
WEBSTER
Library size, 1971 edition, brand 
new, still in box. Cost new: $45.00.
Will Sell for $15
Deduct 10% on orders of 6 or more. 
Moil to
NORTH AMERICAN 
LIQUIDATORS
1 450 Niagara Falls Blvd.
Dept.
Tonawanda, New York 14150
C.O.D orders enclose $1.00 good will 
deposit. Pay balance plus C.O.D. ship
ping on delivery. Be satisfied on inspec
tion or return within 10 days for full 
refund. No dealers, each volume speci
fically stamped not for resale.
Please add $1.25 postage and hondlmg. 
New York Stote residents add applicable sales tax.
RU6S
for less
with your ID Card
1000 9x12 Rugs 
SIS S19 S29 $49
also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, ole.
 WHOLESALE FURNITURE 
BEDROOMS, LIVINGROOMS, ETC. 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Director Choirs, Butterfly Chairs, 
Lamps, etc. Larger Furniture thru 
Wholesale Showrooms.
CHASES
5426 WALNUT STREET, SHADYSIDE
OPfiN DAILY 10 o.m. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
For Information . . . Coll 621-1025
PERSON - INTERPERSON
A series of eight Monday night meetings, in an informal 
group setting. An opportunity for people concerned with 
personal and interpersonal growth to explore their ideas, 
feelings and interactions involving themselves and others. 
Member Limit: 12 people  Fee: $10.00
Reservations MUST he made in advance. For more information:
IRV BRICK. 421-9531  MARY GARROTT, 422-9531
315 S. Bellefield Ave.# 3rd Floor, Hillel Lounge 
February 7, 14, 21, 28  8:15 to 11 p.m.
March 6, 13, 20, 27  8:15 to 11 p.m.
WANTED:
ACTORS, 
DIRECTORS and PRODUCERS 
for
NEW MOVIE COMPANY
write. MOVIES:
.
c/o TARTAN OFFICE 
Room 50Skibo 
C-MU
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  Tartan, Thursday, January 27, 1972
Roles
Introduction
The Student Search Committee is an ad 
hoc committee of Student Government. Its 
purpose is multi-phased. It is required by act 
of Student Government to :
A. Research, define and describe the 
functions of the University President.
B. Recommend qualities desirous in any 
candidate for University President.
C. Research all potential candidates for 
President.
Wth these instructions duly defined, we 
are now ready to present the first portion of 
our responsibility ie.
I. The Role of the University President 
and
II. Our opinion of qualities deemed de
sirous of any candidate for University 
President.
Roles of the University President and 
Expectations of the Next President
The President is the Administrative Head of 
the University.
He has the responsibility for affecting the 
day to day operation of the Universitys 
multi-faceted functions.
The President is the Primary Agent of Uni
versity Fund Raising.
In this capacity he must be capable of 
demonstrating financial efficiency without 
sacrificing the Universitys educational 
goals, in a time when the nature of the 
Universitys financial sources are undergoing 
change. He must explore and develop new 
sources of funds for the University.
The President is the Leader in the Educa
tional Policy Making of the University.
He has the ultimate responsibility in 
creating and maintaining the means to re
view and improve exisitng educational pro
grams. He continually investigates the possi
bility of new programs of study to comple
ment present programs and further the 
ideals of a liberal-professional education. 
The President is the Spokesman of the 
University and Interpreter of the Views of 
the Outside Community in Relation to Uni
versity Resources.
In his communication with various 
groups, be they in business, government, 
education or the general public, he should be 
able to articulate completely the current 
thrust of thought of the University. ConFOR FREE
acgyCoCPr 
uslCngeiCy
PITTSBURGH
Call
422-7900
Women's Medical Assistance
a non-profit organization
versely, he must communicate to the cam
pus community the social, political, eco
nomic and educational needs and desires of 
the outside world and assess their impact in 
relation to the Universitys ability to fulfill 
those needs.
As a consequence of the role of the Presi
dent, it is necessary to describe the qualities 
which would be desirous in a president.
The decisions which the President ren
ders must be logical, impartial and made in 
the best interests of the University. Conse
quently, he can not consider himself to be a 
member of any particular group or interest. 
Rather he must be equally sensitive to the 
problems of trustees, students, faculty, 
alumni and staff.
The next President must be assertive, yet 
not opinionated. He must command respect 
as an administrator, educator and leader of 
the campus community. He must have 
demonstrated ability to evaluate and formu
late long range goals objectively without 
compromise of basic principles. However, he 
must also adapt readily to different concepts 
after due reflection on the Universitys best 
interests. After making his decision he must 
have the requisite proficiency necessary for 
efficient execution of that decision.
As educational leader of the University, 
the President must have a commitment to 
the equalization of the arts, engineering sci
ences, humanities and pure and social sci
ences. He must actively participate in the 
strengthening of the ideals of profession
alism among faculty and students. Therefor 
he should participate in curriculum 
planning, implementation and evaluation.
He must deeply concern himself with stu
dent participation and problems. He must 
actively solicit the opinions of students in 
matters of administration, finance and edu
cation. Furhtermore he must commit him
self to maintaining a personal communica
tion with the student body.
The University President must create a 
greater dialogue between the campus and 
the nonacademic community. He should be 
aware that public support of the University 
is for the mutual benefit of both campus and 
community.
A University relies on voluntary support 
of public and private benefactors. It is the 
Presidents personal responsibility to coordi
nate fund raising. Thus a Presidential candi
date must demonstrate an ability to deal 
effectively with government, business and 
private contributors. Previous financial ex
perience is of considerable importance.
In conclusion, there are many facets of 
the President that are not explored here, 
such as professional background and pre
vious university experience. Granted these 
are two areas of major concern, but their 
combined weight is of little significance in 
the entire picture. As students, we are look
ing for the best possible President for Carnegie-Mellon University for now and the 
future.
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
COUNSELING
EVERY WEDNESDAY 
AND THURSDAY
From 1 to 3 p.m.
By Appointment
621-8875
FLYING
II to 2 a m every day GINO and PETES
Take Out Orders411 South Craig St.  Oakland 
5S2-8691 Hoagies The biggest and busiest 
Pizzas Made to Order Pizza Parlor in OAKLAND!
*''5, %: 30,10:45 
Oh
4
mv \i U"  wt
SELMUR PICTURES in collaboration with ROBERTSON ASSOCIATES presents
ACADEMY AWARD WINNER
CLIFF ROBERTSON
AS
RU
CO-STARRING CLAIRE BLOOM
MUSIC BY RAVI SHANKAR  EXECUTIVE PRODUCER SELIG J. SELIGMAN e SCREENPLAY BY STIRLING SILLIPHANT 
DIRECTED AND PRODUCED BY RALPH NELSON  PRESENTED BY ABC THROUGH CINERAMA RELEASING CORP
N IN 1953?
Have you heard? The DRAFT LOTTERY 
is Wednesday, February 2
WRCT NEWS/9
RESULTS OF LOTTERY AS THEY BECOME AVAILABLE 
REPEATED THROUGHOUT THE DAY
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL TOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
WE RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 FORBES AVENUE
^Student Discount on Most Items t 
Phone: 683-2181
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CHIPs Convenient Headquarters 
for Hardtoare
* Desk Lamps ^ Key Service ^ Artist Brushes
* Hot Plates ^ Poster Paints ^ School Supplies 
Prer sidnt Avenue OAKLAND Phone 621*0923

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, January 27, 1972  Page 9
Appalachia foodpalso
Terence N. Palso
This writer spends a great deal of time 
watching the big figures up there on the 
siiver screen. Beside cinemascope vision, an 
addiction to popcorn, and a great deal of 
entertainment, he has also repeatedly been 
subjected to one of the greatest hazards of 
this sort of pasttime-boredom. All too 
often it seems that he spends twice as long 
in theaters as he actually does, thanks to 
certain films which he should have avoided 
in favor of washing his car, sleeping, or 
cleaning the dust from his bookshelf.
For what its worth, he would now like 
to give you what, in his opinion, were the 
worst motion pictures he paid good money 
to see last year :
SWEET SWEETBACKS BADASS 
SONG. Wthout a doubt this was the worst 
film of 1971. Not only were the acting and 
plot negligible and disgusting, but producer-screenwrit er-director-actor-composer 
Melvin Van Peebles crowded this vehicle 
with so many supposedly fancy and artistic 
camera techniques that it was difficult at 
times to tell what was going on, and the 
iest of the time it wasnt worth knowing.
THE LAST RUN. Georg C. Scott 
starred in this thriller that failed to do a lot 
of things including thrill.
WHO IS HARRY K ELLERMAN AND 
WHY IS HE SAYING THOSE TERRIBLE 
THINGS ABOUT ME? This must rank 
right up there with the longest film titles in 
history, but aside from that this film 
doesnt deserve too much more attention. 
Director Ulu Grosbard directed Herb Gar
dners screenplay and in the process wasted 
Dustin Hoffman and a lot of celluloid.
THE LOVE MACHINE. J ohn Philip 
Law starred in this version of the famous 
J acqueline Susann novel. Although the film 
must have had a plot it was difficult to find 
one. Vhat came across was something 
about the workings of the executives in 
network television and how they were 
taken for a ride by a super stud with the 
charisma and sex appeal of a pair of mil
dewed moccassins.
J OHNNY GOT HIS GUN. Dalton Trumbo wrote and directed this film about the 
plight of an armless, legless, faceless war 
casuality. Whilte it was supposed to be the 
anti-war film to end all anti-war films, it 
turned out to be only slightly less effective 
than Sominex in arousing emotions.
THE TOUCH. Ingmar Bergmans first 
English language film showed that some
thing really does get lost in translation, for 
what came out of the mouths of his charac
ters were lines which were patently absurd. 
The whole things came off as a poor LOVE 
STORY which, in itself, is an accomplish
ment of sorts.
DESPERATE CHARACTERS. A dull, 
drab, dismal film in which Shirley McLaine 
discovers that modern life is faced-paced, 
cruel, and unfeeling. So what else is new?
FRIENDS. Lewis Gilbert must have 
been out of his mind to even try to film 
this idyll about a fifteen year old boy who 
meets a fourteen year old girl, runs away 
with her, gets her pregnant, and delivers 
the baby. Unfortunately, the grownups 
stop them from living happily ever after. 
Gee, things are tough all over.
PLAY MISTY FOR ME. Clint East
woods first directorial effort is about a 
disc jockey who picks up a girl who turns 
homicidal when he tries to drop her. Poor
ly handled, preposterously scripted, devoid 
of common sense, this film nevertheless 
shows the guys what happens when you 
treat the chicks as the liberated beings they 
like to think they are.
THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS. George C. 
Scott thinks that hes Sherlock Holmes, 
and J oanne Voodward is his shrink who 
fall in love with him. Eventually they meet 
Professor Moriarity and the film ends, un
fortunately for the audience this happens 
about ninety minutes too late.
So much for the bad memories. If no
thing else, they at least served to make the 
good films look a lot better, and without 
the dregs we might never really appreciate 
the true masterpieces.
Bruce Breland
THEY CANT PUT IT BACK, hits the 
road and is coming back to C-MU Friday, February 4.
Unique in format utilizing a barrage of 
songs and sounds with Michael Kline play
ing a variety of instruments against a back
drop of multiplescreen projection and 
color slide photography by Doug Yarrow it 
combines to introduce K LINES and YARRO Wfrom Capon Bridge, W Va.
Down in the valley bout a mile from me 
Where the crows no longer cry
There's a great big earth moving machine 
Stands ten stories high 
The ground he can eat is a sight 
Takes a hundred tons at a bite 
He can dig up the grass its a fact
But he can V put it back.
billy ed wheeler
The words you have just read are a 
portion of the lyrics to a song written by 
Wst Virginia's billy ed wheeler, sung by 
anthropology graduate of George 
Wshington University turned balladeer, 
Michael Kline. The song inspired the title 
of a travelling program telling the story of 
the devastation of Appalachia Land the 
people by the mining timber industry.
It is a brutal tale, Michael has said, not 
much fun to hear about, but all of us who 
fear for the future of our environment of 
the Southern Mountains and their people.
K line was born is Wshington, DC and 
moved to Wfest Virginia when his father
bought a farm on Dillons Run. He grew up 
learning the songs and music played and 
sung by his neighbors and was soon playin 
well enough to play along with them.
Michael, his wife Polly, Doug Yarrow, 
and his wife Ruth, all met when they were 
working as members of the Appalachian 
Volunteers in Eastern K entucky in 1965.
Kline began to write his own songs as he 
worked with the peoples groups in Breat
hitt County, Kentucky. He continued his 
music while teaching at the Highlander 
Folk School in K noxville, Tennessee, 
where he encouraged mountain people to 
write songs about their problems.
His first recording was The Poverty 
War is Dead followed soon after by ano
ther album, a superb collection of music 
and lyrics entitled You Cant Put it Back 
recorded with Rich Kirby for the Southern 
Conference on Education Fund.
Doug Yarrow came by a similar route 
with a degree in Sociology from K enyon 
College. He arrived in Kentucky and wan
ted to do something ti help the world situa
tion. It soon became apparent to both 
men that a larger commitment was stirring 
them. They made the decision to live and 
work among the people, to raise their fami
lies among the people Michael had known 
all his life. Wfe feel Appalachia has been 
mistreated by the press. , Yarrow said in a 
press release to the Raleigh Register, Beckley Wfest Virginia. We are out to show all 
the beauty that is here and the destruction 
brought on by the big boys.
Like Michael, he learned his songs well 
before he started teaching them. He stud
ied his subject for five years in Mingo 
County and others aswell. Recently, his 
work was published as a collection of pho
tographs illustrating Les OBrians book,- 
Will you Miss Me When Im Gone? A 
short history of the Appalachian Hills.
The program sponsored jointly by the Y 
Office of Community Affairs and the Ac
tivities Board Programming Fund will begin 
at 8 30 pm. in the Cats Cradle Coffee 
House Skibo on February 4. The program 
lasts for approximately one hour to be 
followed by discussion for those who wish 
to stay on a while. Admission is free.
Marcy Urban 
Stephen Singer
Interested in breaking the monotony of 
theJ anuary-March semester syndrome and 
warding off a case of the blahs?A reliable 
way of ameliorating any depression if gorg
ing your tastedbuds in some forbidden 
treat. If you have a few spare hours and a 
little spare change, Sweet Williamss 
half-price night (Tuesday from 5PM to 
8PM) is the best deal around. For those 
three hours, everything on the menu is half 
price, including their mountainous ice 
cream concoctions. Entrees vary slightly 
from Skibo fare, with such favorites as 
fried chicken, fried fish, and chopped steak 
heading the list. A variety of sandwiches 
and salads are also available, featuring tra
ditional corned beef, tuna and turkey. 
Aside from these staples, the selection of 
ice cream desserts is the most extensive 
(and delicious) of any restaurant in this 
area. Located on Frobes Ave. in Oakland 
(former Isalys), the place is usually jam
med with Pitt students and near-by residents-so be prepared to wait. However, for 
an informal inexpensive evening, $2.50 will 
buy 2 dinner platters and 2 sundaes, 
enough ti impress a date or satiate a very, 
very hungry individual. Try it, youll like 
it!
NOTE : anyone having a favorite restau
rant or recipe which warrants exposure to 
the rest of the campus, write it down and 
send to :Food For Thought, Tartan Office, 
Skibo.
jude
Bethlehem Steel
CompurInterview/February 
10, 1972
Steel is the backbone of American 
business and industry, and Bethlehem 
is our countrys second-largest steel 
producer. And, when it comes to 
progressiveness, were second 
to none.
If youre thinking career, think 
seriously about the Bethlehem Steel 
Loop Course. Ask your placement 
officer about it; see our specification 
sheet; pick up a copy of our booklet, 
"Bethlehem Steels Loop Course, at 
the placement office. Most important 
of all, sign up for a campus interview.
Heres how you might fit in at 
Bethlehem Steel:
Engineering Degrees
Steel Plant Operations
Fabricated Steel Construction
Mining
Sales
Research
Shipbuilding
Business and Arts Degrees 
Sales
Accounting
The Bethlehem Steel Loop Course 
since 1922, our program for recruit
ing, orienting, and training college 
graduates for careers in management. 
Talk over your career prospects with 
our campus representative.
IETHI IHlH
ST EL
An equal opportunity 
employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10  Tartan, Thursday, January 27, 1972
Sports
HiO
Chuck Bond
The Tartan Mermen got back into the 
swim of things here against Westminster 
this past Saturday, but came out at the 
short end of a 68-45 score. The visitors, in 
a better than average effort for their team, 
sped to eight first place finishes in the 13 
events of a meet that saw Tartan times fall 
off somewhat.
Though never leading, CMU kept it 
close throughout. Pete Hoysan and Senior 
co-captain K ent Schnake delivered backto-back first place finishes in the 1000 yard 
and 200 yard freestyles, with times of 
13 20.9 and 2 05.8 respectively. One event 
later Lloyd Miller captured another first 
for the,Tartans, a 2 27.6 in the 200 yard 
individual medley, with Hoysan finishing 
third. CMU next tied the score at 26-all as 
the diving team of Ohlson and Lawson 
came in 1-3. After that, however, it was all 
Westminster; the visitors took 6 of the last 
7 events en route to their victory.
The Tartans last meet was way back on 
December 8th, and Swimming Coach Steve 
Fagan speculated that the long lay-off 
probably slowed his team up. His men will 
get plenty of action this week, however, as 
they take on Washington & J efferson 
Wednesday night, and Clarion Saturday 
afternoon. Both are away meets.
SPORTSAnnouncements
Rifle Matchthe smallbores meet Duquesne, Friday, Jan. 28 at 6:00 pm.
BasketballCMU hoopers against West
minster, Wednesday, Feb. 2 at 8:00 pm in 
the gym.
IM Rosters Due: Wrestling, Handball,
Water Basketball rosters are due Tuesday, 
Feb. 1.
volley
tall
SPK ERS :
Sacco-SAE
Dax-SAE <
Erskine-SN 
K raynik-BTP
Second Team :
Tauche-SAE Hershberger-BTP 
Whitting-SAE 
Crapster-BTP tie 
Lang-Giant Eagles tie
SETTERS:
Aber-SAE
Saulino-BTP
Second Team :
Ringler-SN 
LeMay-BTP tie 
Veltry Blawnox tie 
Meric-Giant Eagles tie 
Hoeneissen-Giant Eagles tie
M.V.P. Dax-SAE 
Second M.V.P. Kraynik BTP
THREE MAN VOLLEYBALL 
FINAL STANDINGS
l.SNA ,
2. SAE Renegades
3. BTP A
4. BTP Hustlers
wrestling
Allen Kohan
The wrestling team lost to Westminster 
Saturday afternoon in the CMU gym by a j 
score of 36-17. The Tartans had beaten a 
diminished Westminster team earlier in the 
season.
Mike Veltry (118) lost a decisive deci
sion, one in which the difference in scoring 
was 10 points or greater, by a score of 
17-6. He was unable to cope with his disad
vantaged opponent who controlled Mike 
throughout the match. K en Sauter (126) 
struggled manfully throughout his match, 
but was turned over on his back for a fall |] 
late in the last period.
Allen K ohan (134) reversed the trend 
though taken down initially by his oppo
nent, Allen reversed him and ended the 
first period leading in points. He then turn
ed his man over and had him on his back 
for most of the second period, eventually 
pinning him with only 2 seconds left in the 
period. At 142, Tom Diller tied, as he was 
awarded 2 points in the final period since 
his opponent was stalling. Continually try
ing to score predicament or near fall 
points, Tom could not manage to turn over 
his opponent, who was effectively doing 
nothing on the mat. Steve Etkin (150) con
tinued the comeback as he completely do
minated the match. Steve scored a take
down in the first period and quickly ended 
his match as he scored a fall mid-way in the 
second period. PeteK elston (158) eked out 
an 8-7 victory with the deciding point (i
scored for riding time. Pete barely managed *
to protect an early lead, as he tired half
way though the second period.
Leading 17-12, CMUs fortunes again as 
Vic Rogers (167 was pinned. Vic could 
never get control and did not manage to 
score on his opponent. J oe Curilla, wrest
ling 177, though a regular 142 poiunder, 
jumped off to a 4-0 lead as he scored a 
double by takedown and turned his man 
over for a predicament. In the second |
period, J oe turned the wrong way, how
ever, and once caught on his back could 
not overcome the weight difference. Clyde 
Ligons (190) was wrestling on even match,
6-6, before he got caught on his back as he 
was trying a roll. HWT was forfeited to 
Westminster.
Tuesday, CMU wrestles Wiiynesburg and 
Wfest Liberty away, and Thursday were at 
St. Vincent. With Coach Stevas prodding, 
the team will hopefully become more ag( 
gressive on the mat against these teams.
For the first time $429 buys you all the music.
If you have begun 
to look around for a good 
home music system that 
wont set your bank 
account back by more 
than four hundred dollars, 
you may have become 
confused by the vast 
selection of components 
now on the market.
If you have tried to 
educate yourself by 
reading up in some audio 
magazines, you have 
probably become further 
confused by hard to 
believe and perplexing advertising 
claims.
You figure that of all the prod
ucts available, some might sound 
wonderful, some mediocre, and some 
terrible. Some will prove to be ulti
mately reliable, and others will more 
or less quickly disintegrate.
Clearly you want a music sys
tem which will be both wonderful (so 
you will be happy) and ultimately 
reliable (so you and your investment 
will be secure).
We can help you; please read
on.
We describe a four-hundred dol
lar component system which repre
sents more value and reliability than 
has previously been available. (A 
year ago it would have been neces
sary to spend at least five hundred 
dollars to bring home this amount of 
performance.) Two new products 
make this system possible: the new 
Smaller Advent Loudspeakers and 
the new Marantz 2215 stereo receiver.
The Smaller Advent LoudspeakSi M
conmiUmmstmhUarv
ers are just like the original Advent 
Loudspeakers in every quantifiable 
and audible respect, except that they 
are smaller, less expensive and 
wont play as loud. This means that 
on most kinds of musical material, 
and under most listening conditions 
likely to apply in most homes, the 
Smaller Advent Loudspeaker is the 
equal of any loudspeaker system 
available at any price.
The Smaller Advent is the only 
speaker under one hundred dollars 
which can reproduce the lowest 
tones of a pipe organ and the high
est sounds of a cymbal (if they are 
on the record!), which maintains a 
satisfying tonal balance on almost 
all source material.
The Marantz 2215 that we are 
recommending provides more than 
enough power to satisfy both you 
and the Advents: it delivers forty 
watts RMS into four ohms, across 
the entire audio range, at less than 
0.5% total distortion. (RMS, or con
tinuous power, is the most demand
ing of the various power-rating 
systems, and is the one used 
by engineers rather than by 
advertising men.)
Because the Marantz 2215 
d and the Smaller Advent speakf ers are capable of such widerange performance, they will 
I together cleanly reproduce any 
distortion, rumble, wow, or flut
ter that is contributed by a less 
than excellent turntable/ 
cartridge combination. We 
therefore recommend the BSR 
31 OX automatic turntable with a 
Shure M75 cartridge. The 310X has 
a good heavy platter, a smooth and 
gentle changing mechanism, and a 
convenient cueing control. The 
Shure cartridge reproduces the full 
audio range with exceptional clarity; 
it therefore complements the very 
wide-range capabilities of the 
Marantz receiver and the Advent 
loudspeakers.
The system price is $429.00. All 
components are guaranteed for two 
years, parts and labor. There are no 
little options to surprise you. Only 
good sound and sheer product value 
for your dollars. We of Opus One 
consider this system to be the most 
significant new value in stereo in 
the last 6 years.
opus one
Downtown  400 Smithfield 
(412) 281-3969 
Oakland  3519 Forbes 
(412) 621-9777
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
