SPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Make delicious dishes with Entropy+ ingredients  B8Womens basketball scores win against UChicago  A8
SCITECH
TartanHacks brings intense competition  A5
thetartan.org
@thetartan
January 28, 2013
Volume 107, Issue 15
Police make arrest in response to high number of thefts
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Staffwriter
The spring semester at 
Carnegie Mellon has already 
been marked by a string of 
burglaries; in the past two 
weeks alone, four thefts have 
occurred. Money and laptops 
were stolen from Webster 
Hall, Resnik House, Fairfax 
Apartments, and the Kappa 
Alpha Theta sorority house.
According to the universitys crime alert email on these 
robberies sent out on Jan. 17, 
CMU Police are working with 
the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police regarding a burglary suspect recently arrested in our 
area to ascertain if there is any 
connection to the incidents.
Gary Scheimer, lieutenant of the University Police, 
said, We made an arrest [Jan. 
23rd] for the burglary on Webster. We dont believe that the 
same man is involved in the 
other three; he was linked to 
a series of burglaries that occurred here and at Duquesne 
University and in the city of 
Pittsburgh. Scheimer said 
that the suspect was out on 
parole when he committed the 
thefts and is now facing charges from Carnegie Mellon, the 
University of Pittsburgh, and 
the city of Pittsburgh.
Joseph Meyers, lieutenant 
of the University Police, con?rmed that the suspect who 
is not af?liated with Carnegie 
Mellon confessed to not only 
the robbery at Webster Hall, 
but also to a string of thefts 
that span Duquesne University 
and the areas around Carnegie 
Mellon and the University of 
Pittsburgh.
Right now he has a total of 
four cases, and Im anticipating that Zone 5 detectives are 
going to arrest him on at least 
one other count, so hes essentially a kind of serial burglar, 
Meyers said.
Regarding the burglar at 
the Kappa Alpha Theta sorority house, Scheimer said, We 
have descriptions of [him], 
and were trying to identify 
him and were working toward 
seeing if hes linked with all 
three of the other ones.
While the other burglaries, 
according to Scheimer, were 
committed by a thief who 
came in through an unlocked 
door, at the sorority house the 
suspect confronted a student 
and more or less intimidated 
her through the guise of the 
fact that he had a meeting with 
an alum; he made her feel very 
ill at ease and she then admitted him into the building. At 
that point, the thief found an 
unlocked door and stole cash 
from a drawer.
At Resnik, Scheimer said, 
the victims suite door was left 
unlocked and, although it was 
CM-YOU Fitness Challenge  encourages healthy lifestyle
JACKSON LANE 
Senior Staffwriter
This years Fitness Challenge  an annual event held 
by the Department of Athletics to encourage campus 
members to exercise at least 
20 minutes, four days a week 
 begins this Monday.
This years theme, entitled 
CM-YOU, emphasizes Carnegie Mellons global presence. 
We want to raise awareness of Carnegie Mellons 
global degree programs in 
other countries, said Pattye 
Stragar, the events organizer 
and operations manager for 
Fitness and Aquatics.  
After signing up for the Fitness Challenge, participants 
pick a country, and every 20 
minutes of exercise scores a 
point for that country. Each 
countrys score is tracked on 
a map in front of the University Center ?tness desk, and at 
the end of the six-week event, 
the people on the team of the 
country with the most points 
win. For example, if I take an 
hour Zumba class and Im on 
Team Qatar, Ill color in three 
squares on the map for Qatar, Stragar explained.
The CM-YOU Fitness Challenge will also encourage 
physical activity through lectures from local ?tness experts, raf?es, and a 5k run at 
Dicks Sporting Goods.
This year, Stragar wants to 
especially target undergraduate students who dont regularly exercise due to heavy 
school workloads. To do this, 
the Department of Athletics is 
partnering with the studentrun ENACTUS Healthy Lifestyles Initiatives Project to 
help plan the CM-YOU Fitness 
Photo Illustration by Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
A wave of thefts engulfed the Carnegie Mellon community starting at the end of last semester. After the numerous thefts of laptops, iPads, and wallets, University Police have made an arrest 
in connection to this trend.
University increases tuition
BRENT HEARD 
News Co-Editor
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
An email sent to the student body by Vice President 
for Campus Affairs Michael 
Murphy last Thursday announced a 4 percent increase 
in new undergraduate tuition 
rates for Carnegie Mellons 
201314 academic year.
For 2013, tuition for incoming undergraduate students will be $46,670. Housing costs will be set at $7,070 
and board costs at $4,920, 
which are increases of $260 
and $180, respectively.
Tuition increases are the 
same as those announced last 
year for the current academic 
year, with a 3 percent tuition 
increase for current students, 
a 4 percent increase for incoming students, and graduate tuition rates continuing 
to depend on the department 
and program.
A university press release 
claimed that this increase 
continues a four-year trend 
of among the lowest tuition 
increases by the university 
since 1975.
In the email, it was emphasized that the transportation fee was substantially 
increased due to the nature 
of the universitys agreement 
with the Pittsburgh Port Authority. This fee will now cost 
$120, up from $55. Additionally, students were told they 
could ?nd an increase in their 
activities fee, as a result of the 
recently passed referendum 
to increase the student activities fee. The student activities 
fee cost is now listed as $242.
Murphy added in the 
email, While I am pleased 
that we have moderated the 
increase in tuition for continuing students, I also appreciate 
that our tuition is high by any 
standard. While much of this 
is due to underlying in?ation, 
it is also due to our continued commitment to ?nancial 
aid and to maintaining our 
funding for the exciting and 
vibrant community that is our 
university.
The university press release emphasized that 57 
percent of Carnegie Mellon 
students receive ?nancial aid.
Murphy concluded his 
email by saying, We remain 
dedicated to providing you 
with an excellent educational 
experience  one that prepares you well both professionally and personally.
On collegedata.com, Carnegie Mellon released a statement regarding the cost of 
tuition saying, Theres no 
denying it, a private college 
education like Carnegie Mellons is expensive. We hope 
that you and your family will 
consider the value of a college education from Carnegie 
Mellon to be an investment in 
your future.
Carnegie Mellons recent 
3 percent increase in tuition 
for current students and 4 
percent increase for incoming students is substantially 
lower than tuition increases 
in previous years. The university raised tuition by over 
7 percent in 2008 and 2009, 
and around 5 percent in  years 
prior.
BRENT HEARD 
News Co-Editor
A contracting worker was 
killed after being electrocuted 
while working in Wean Hall 
last Tuesday.
Harold Taylor Jr.  a 59- 
year-old man from Mt. Oliver, 
Pennsylvania  worked for 
the Eaton Electrical Company.
The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
reported on the same day 
that Taylor had been working in Wean Hall at the time 
of the accident, and a 911 call 
was placed at 10:20 a.m. He 
was pronounced dead on the 
scene half an hour later.
University spokesman Ken 
Walters commented to the 
Post-Gazette that the incident 
was an industrial accident 
and released no further details.
The university attempted 
to alert students, but for some 
members of the student body, 
the Alert System text message contained typographical errors, reading, G in 
Wean Hall responding to an 
isolated incident involving 
an individuaXorking with 
an outside contractor. There 
is no cause for evacuation or 
other precaution.
As was veri?ed by those 
who received the complete 
text message, the alert read, 
As you may be aware, a 
number of emergency ?rst 
responders are in Wean Hall 
responding to an isolated 
incident involving an 
individual working with an 
outside contractor. 
There is no cause of evacuation or other precaution.
Later that day, Vice President for Campus Affairs Michael Murphy sent out an 
email to the Carnegie Mellon 
community specifying that 
the accident occurred on the 
second ?oor of Wean Hall and 
commented, I know you join 
me in keeping the victim, his 
family and friends, and his 
colleagues in our thoughts 
and prayers. 
Murphy declined to share 
the personal information of 
the victim in his email.
The Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration 
is investigating this incident, 
as is typical for an industrial 
accident.
Fatal accident in Wean Hall
See THEFTS, A3
See FITNESS, A3
See TUITION, A3
Courtesy of Juan Fernandez

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  January 28, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
In the Pillbox article DETOUR hosts DJ Poupon to expose 
college students to electronic music scene published on Jan. 
21, visual artist Ben Tabas last name is incorrectly spelled as 
Tapas. Additionally, the image of the handbill was incorrectly 
attributed to Kathryn Thomas. instead of Mirko Azis.
In the news article Coffee grounds, plastic forks get new 
life at Tazza DOro, also published Jan. 21, the article incorrectly implied that biodegradable products are compostable. 
Tazza DOro is a test run, and no utensils are compostable at 
any dining locations.
The news article Kosbie advises students on happiness, 
well-being in life published on Jan. 21, stated that Tanya Sedwick was a sophomore decision science major; she is an undecided Dietrich College student.
NEWS IN BRIEFCMU honors Martin Luther King Jr.
WEATHER
Odor of Marijuana
Jan. 19, 2013
University Police was summoned to the Mudge Courtyard after an resident assistant reported that the area 
smelled of marijuana. Of?cers 
responded to ?nd two individuals at the scene and con?rmed an odor of marijuana.
Of?cers recovered a small 
amount of marijuana in addition to drug paraphernalia 
from one of the males possession. One student was released from the scene while 
charges are pending against 
the student found in possession of the illegal contraband. 
 
Harassment Report
Jan. 19, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon student 
contacted the police dispatch 
of?ce by phone stating that 
he was being followed by 
three students from an opposing buggy team, in a sedan, 
through surrounding Oakland 
streets. The caller led the vehicle into the police station 
parking lot where the caller 
came into the station to ?le a 
harassment report. 
The vehicle ?ed from the 
lot, but was caught by police 
of?cers a few blocks from the 
police station. Police of?cers 
conducted a traf?c stop on the 
vehicle and identi?ed all three 
occupants as Carnegie Mellon 
students. 
The occupants were advised to cease any harassing 
or inappropriate activities and 
gestures toward the reporting 
person and/or his buggy team. 
 
Underage Drinking
Jan. 20, 2013
Police and security of?cers 
made contact with an intoxicated student who summoned 
the University Police for assistance in opening his dorm 
room. The police dispatcher 
believed that the male was 
extremely intoxicated and 
requested that the police of?cers check on his well-being.
The male is being cited 
internally for underage 
drinking.
De?ant Trespass Notice
Jan. 22, 2013
The Career and Professional Center summoned University Police in order to contact 
a business recruiter regarding 
the issuing of a de?ant trespass notice after the recruiter 
made inappropriate advances 
toward a student. 
The recruiter was advised 
that he is not permitted to 
have any contact with the 
student or visit any Carnegie 
Mellon owned or leased property.
Vandalism/Criminal 
Mischief
Jan. 23, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to Posner Hall for 
a criminal mischief report. 
Administrators reported that 
for the past several months, 
unknown persons have been 
clogging urinals in the mens 
rooms with paper towels causing them to over?ow.
 An investigation is under 
way. Anyone with information is or who sees suspicious 
activity is asked to contact 
University Police at 412-268-
2323.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Keynote speaker Binta Niambi Brown speaks to an audience in Rangos Hall as part of the universitys Martin Luther King Jr. day celebrations. Events 
were hosted by the university throughout the afternoon and evening to commemorate King, in addition to cancelling classes after 12:30 p.m. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Ashwini Rao, a software 
engineering Ph.D. student, 
and a team of other Carnegie 
Mellon researchers developed a password-cracking 
algorithm that accounts for 
grammar in order to prove 
the concept that certain passwords are more vulnerable 
than others. 
They tested the algorithm against 1,434 passwords containing 16 or more 
characters. 
Their results proved that 
grammar, whether good or 
bad, made passwords more 
vulnerable, and that a longer password is not always a 
safer password. 
According to a university 
press release, A password 
composed of pronoun-verbadjective-noun, such as 
Shehave3cats, is inherently 
easier to decode than Andyhave3cats, which follows 
noun-verb-adjective-noun. 
A password that incorporated 
more nouns would be even 
more secure.
Rao said in a press release, 
Ive seen password policies 
that say, Use ?ve words. 
Well, if four of those words 
are pronouns, they dont add 
much security.
Researchers develop password de-coder
Alum wins Oscar in technical category
Drew Olbrich (SCS 92) 
will receive an Academy 
Award on Feb. 9 at the Scienti?c and Technical Awards 
Presentation for his work in 
creating the Light system, 
a system that was used for 
computer graphics lighting 
in movies such as Shrek, 
Madagascar, and other animated DreamWorks ?lms.
The Scienti?c and Technical Awards honor those with 
achievements that have signi?cantly contributed to the 
technical aspects of ?lm.
According to a university 
press release, the Academy 
Awards released a statement 
that said, Virtually unchanged from its original incarnation over 15 years ago, 
Light is still in continuous 
use due to its emphasis on 
interactive responsiveness, 
?nal-quality interactive render preview, scalable architecture, and powerful usercon?gurable spreadsheet 
interface.
Former professor of computer science and robotics 
Doug James will also receive 
an award. 
James will be honored  
along with Theodore Kim, 
Nils Thuerey, and Markus 
Gross  for the invention 
of new ?uid simulation 
software.
New major at Silicon Valley campus
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Silicon Valley campus 
will now offer a new concentration  connected embedded systems  for its Master 
of Science in Software Engineering degree program. By 
offering hands-on experience 
in software engineering, the 
program appeals to those interested in working as developers, architects, and other 
technical professionals.
Students within the new 
connected embedded systems major will be presented 
with research projects and 
opportunities, as they work 
with leading companies within the Silicon Valley.
Courses within this major 
include Metrics for Software 
Engineers, Craft of Software Development, Avoiding 
Software Project Failures, 
Managing Software Professionals, Mobile Hardware 
for Software Engineers, and 
Connected Embedded Systems Architecture.
Collegiate Reader ProgramCampus LifeOnline Presence 
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
20 / 15
SATURDAY
High / Low
25 / 22
SUNDAY
High / Low
28 / 20
TUESDAY
High / Low
55 / 53
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
56 / 31
THURSDAY
High / Low
34 / 15
Student Senate has met 
with the collegiate reader 
liaison from The New York 
Times in order to expand 
and enhance the Universitys collegiate readership 
program. 
Issues that were discussed were online access 
to The New York Times, as 
well as graduate student access passes to The New York 
Times.
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Compiled by
NOL UM
Discussion at the Student 
Senate meeting revolved 
around interaction between 
the Senate and the general 
campus community. 
Efforts to connect with 
the university community 
include hosting Town Halls 
in order to foster interaction, 
addressing the provision of 
resources for students affected by mental illnesses, and 
spreading Carnegie Mellons 
presence into the Squirrel 
Hill and Craig Street areas. 
There was also discussion of a survey developed by 
Student Body President Will 
Weiner and discussion of an 
art appreciation program.
 In addition, there was 
talk of an event being held 
during ?nals week.
Business Affairs Report
Joint Funding Commission 
budget submission occurred 
last week, with the deadline 
being yesterday at midnight. 
Student Senate held information sessions for on-campus organizations on Jan. 19 
and last Thursday in order to 
assist them in the budget submission process.
Town Halls
Vice Chair of the 
undergraduate Student 
Senate Anshul Dhankher 
discussed how to increase 
cooperation with university 
organizations. 
Dhankher discussed the 
well-received Town Hall 
Week Senate held last semester, and how they are 
in the process of organizing 
further interaction with the 
campus community through 
this and related mediums.
Discussion was also held 
on the state of the Student 
Senate website, and its potential redesign. 
Goals for Student Senates public relations this 
semester will involve forms 
of Facebook promotion and 
potential use of The Bridge 
in conjunction with in-person events.
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

January 28, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
NOL UM 
News Co-Editor
There was confusion concerning the of?cial website 
for the business club Enactus, 
previously known as SIFE, 
this past week. 
Many students mistakenly 
thought that the SIFE website, www.cmusife.org, was 
hacked. 
The clubs leaders, however, clari?ed that they no 
longer hold domain over that 
address. 
The website that currently is a Japanese blog when 
translated into English, contains questions about sex 
shops in Osaka.
Nikita Anand, senior business administration and 
statistics major and Enactus 
senior advisor, said in an 
email to The Tartan, Actually, our SIFE website was 
not hacked into. SIFE underwent a global rebranding and 
has now changed its name to 
Enactus. Therefore, we let 
our server expire so that we 
could get a new website that 
would be more ?tting to our 
new name.
Although SIFE recently 
changed its name to Enactus, 
which stands for Entrepreneurial, Act, Us, many students still refer to the club by 
its former name, which led to 
the confusion about the website.
Its actually nice that so 
many people noticed our 
website had changed, because this will help our promotional efforts to rebrand 
SIFE on our campus to Enactus and help the student body 
understand the new name, 
Anand said.
Katie Cameron, sophomore information systems 
and decision science double 
major and president of Enactus, said, [Enactus] has 
been going by SIFE, standing 
for Students in Free Enterprise. Now, as the organization spreads into all parts of 
the world, some regions dont 
recognize free enterprise. Additionally, SIFE is supposedly 
a curse word in South Africa. 
Because SIFE didnt want to 
be an acronym anymore, the 
international headquarters 
hired a consulting ?rm to 
change the name to something more closely aligned 
with the current actions the 
organization takes.
The new Enactus page 
can be found at the website 
cmuenactus.org.
in the afternoon and someone 
was sleeping in one of the adjacent bedrooms, the thief left 
with a laptop and some cash. 
At Webster Hall and the 
Fairfax Apartments, the thief 
also entered through a door 
that a resident had left open. 
This guy at Webster, we 
have him on video, hes just 
going through trying doors, 
trying to ?nd one that was 
open. And I sense that the 
same thing happened at Resnik and Fairfax, Meyers said.
These recent thefts occur 
in the wake of last semesters 
burglaries, in which thieves 
stole laptops from Hunt Library and several other academic buildings on campus. 
Scheimer admitted that 
Carnegie Mellons open campus provided an easy target for thieves: On an open 
campus, theyre able to just 
come through buildings, walk 
through and see the laptops  
theyre unattended, and it just 
takes a matter of seconds.
Priscilla Kim, a ?rst-year 
psychology major, was a victim of one such theft in November, when her laptop was 
stolen from Hunt Library. 
She was studying on the 
second ?oor of Hunt Library 
and left her backpack and 
laptop unattended to meet a 
friend on the ?rst ?oor. 
Kim said, I was originally 
planning to come back within 
10 minutes, but then when 
I came back it was about 40 
minutes after I left and my laptop was gone.
Kim immediately called 
University Police and used a 
friends computer to log onto 
iCloud, a service provided by 
Apple. 
This allowed her to lock her 
Macbook with a password, display a message on the screen 
urging whomever found it to 
return it to Hunt Library, and 
?nd the location of the laptop 
if it was turned on in an area 
with Wi-Fi.
A week later, Kim reported, 
she got an email notifying her 
that iCloud had found the location of her laptop. 
She called the University 
Police again and gave them 
the address so that they could 
pursue the matter. 
On the ?rst day of the 
spring semester, the police returned Kims laptop to her. 
The police found it after 
the owner of an electronic 
shop bought it from the thief 
and realized that it was stolen. 
Kim said, The person who 
turned it in was someone who 
sells and buys used computers 
and tech devices. He said he 
bought it from an anonymous 
woman. Some woman had just 
given it to him for $100.
On Dec. 12, 2012, the 
university released a crime 
alert via email that stated, 
An unusually high number of 
thefts have recently occurred 
on campus. These thefts have 
involved unattended personal 
laptops and electronic devices 
in numerous buildings, but 
have mainly targeted Hunt 
Library and the University 
Center.
The alert urged students to 
not leave laptops or other valuable goods unattended and to 
report any suspicious persons 
or circumstances immediately to university police. The 
thefts also prompted the university to post signs in the library and around campus with 
a similar message. Regarding 
the laptop thefts, Scheimer 
said that last semester similar 
thefts had been occurring at 
the University of Pittsburgh, 
where the thief was identi?ed 
and interviewed. 
He [the suspect] knew 
that they were onto him, so 
he moved on to the next campus, he said. They provided 
us with his name and information; we had undercover 
people in the library that had 
his picture and saw him acting 
suspiciously.
Even though the police interviewed the suspect, they do 
not have enough information 
yet to make an arrest. They 
hope to acquire conclusive evidence by following the tracks 
of the stolen laptops. 
Although the suspect is 
not con?rmed as the thief, 
Scheimer noted that after he 
was taken in, the laptop thefts 
immediately stopped.
A crime report email sent 
to students on Jan. 17 included several safety tips to 
help students avoid becoming victims, such as to lock 
your doors and ground level 
windows, do not allow piggybacking into secure areas by 
allowing individuals to closely 
follow you through the security door into the facility, and 
do not allow strangers access 
to your building, residence, or 
secured area.
Scheimer talked about 
the importance of keeping 
card-access buildings secure. 
Its common courtesy for us; 
weve been taught since we 
were young to hold the door 
for somebody. But if a building 
has card access, its not rude to 
say I have to close the door; I 
dont know you; you have to 
let yourself in. Its a very hard 
culture to break.
As the trend of thefts continues, the police caution 
against leaving personal belongings unattended. Meyers 
echoed the sentiments of the 
email. The biggest crimeprevention tip I can give is 
for people to use common 
sense  lock their doors and 
be aware of their surroundings. Those are two of the 
biggest things you can do to 
keep yourself from being a victim. When you leave the door 
open, youre basically making 
yourself a victim.
Semester kicks off with unusually high number of thefts
Confusion around old SIFE website
Despite the relatively low 
increase, students expressed 
discontent with the high tuition rates and the seemingly 
low amount of ?nancial aid 
that they receive.
First-year design major 
Solomon Ng said, I think that 
the increase is absolutely ridiculous because Im not on 
?nancial aid, even though my 
parents make just above the 
mark where you can get ?nancial aid. I think its kind of unfair. These debts will be with 
us forever, even after college. 
I understand that we come 
to Carnegie Mellon to get a 
quality education, but Im going to spend so long trying to 
pay my debts off. Our tuition 
is already one of the highest in 
the nation. I dont understand 
why it has to keep on going 
up.
Junior electrical and computer engineering major 
Joon Kwon said, I think the 
increase is a little too much. 
When I ?rst came here tuition 
was around $50,000 and now 
its $60,000, and thats a lot. 
Theres only so much my ?-
nancial aid can do.
CMU continues trend of tuition hikes
Challenge. 
I want to incorporate 
their perspectives as undergraduates, and in general, 
students are more receptive 
when approached by someone their own age, Stragar 
said.
On their part, the Health 
Lifestyles Initiatives project 
leaders  sophomore business administration major 
Alice Ye, sophomore biomedical and chemical engineering double major Kristina 
Jang, senior psychology major Michael Kashaf, and senior biomedical and chemical engineering double major 
Sara Kashaf  are addressing concerns about students 
workload.
We get it, Jang said. 
We are always swamped in 
work at Carnegie Mellon, so 
people will push health to the 
side to focus on schoolwork. 
But it doesnt have to be this 
way.
To ?t many students busy 
schedules, the CM-YOU Fitness Challenge this year is 
offering Minor, Major, 
and Double Major levels 
of ?tness goals. For the students who are overloading or 
double majoring, we have the 
Minor, which is one to two 
days a week ... because we do 
recognize that you dont have 
much time, Ye said.
Although students can 
sign up for the Minor option, 
the project leaders recommend that students taking a 
regular course load should 
?nd time in their schedules 
for the Major option, which 
entails the Department of 
Athletics goal of four days of 
exercise. 
To do thiconvince studentsitiatives project is positing 
exercise as a way to manage 
stress.
We want to change the 
coping mechanisms people 
have for their workloads. 
If you have a lot of work or 
stress, you tend to snack or 
just crash, so what we are 
trying to do is replace those 
bad habits with good ones, 
Kashaf explained.
Students can register at 
the University Center equipment desk. 
Fitness challenge promotes exercise
THEFTS, from A1
FITNESS, from A1
TUITION, from A1
Nol Um/News Co-Editor
The current webpage hosted at cmusife.org. The webpage discusses the use of prostitution and sex shops in Osaka.
Photo Illustration by Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
KEEP CALM and write for News. 
Contact news@thetartan.org
The CMYOU Fitness 
Challenge will 
also encourage 
physical 
activity through 
lectures from 
local ?tness 
experts, raf?es, 
and a 5k run at 
Dicks Sporting 
Goods.

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  January 28, 2013
Researcher receives grant to improve electrical grid
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
You use electricity all the 
time  when you charge your 
phone, when you turn on the 
lights, when you cook. But 
where does this electricity 
come from? How is it distributed to you?
The answer to these questions is an electrical grid that 
spans the entire U.S. and 
delivers electricity from suppliers to consumers through 
a three-part system: power 
stations produce electricity, 
transmission lines carry electricity from these stations to 
demand centers, and transformers that reduce voltage 
so the transmission lines can 
carry power to their ?nal destinations.
Unfortunately, the current state of the electrical grid 
is inef?cient. Electrical and 
computer engineering assistant professor Gabriela Hug, 
who is also af?liated with the 
engineering and public policy 
department, is working to 
overcome this obstacle. She 
was recently awarded a ?veyear $400,000 grant from the 
National Science Foundation 
(NSF) to fund her groundbreaking research on improving our power grids ef?ciency.
The way the grid is designed right now, electrical 
current ?ows through transmission lines following Kirchhoffs laws  a set of circuit 
rules stating that the sum of all 
currents ?owing into one node 
is zero, and that the sum of the 
voltage gains and drops in any 
circuit loop is also zero. You 
cant tell an electron which 
way to ?ow, Hug joked. However, there are certain devices 
such as the Flexible Alternating Current Transmission System (FACTS) that can be used 
to in?uence parameters on a 
line.
For example, if you have 
two of the same resistors in 
parallel, half of the current 
will ?ow through one line 
and the other half will ?ow 
through the second line, Hug 
said. But if you in?uence the 
resistance in one of the wires, 
you can push part of the current into the other line. Essentially, these devices will 
allow us to control the ?ow of 
current through the electric 
power grid. But why is ?exibility in the power grid so important?
With increased efforts for 
renewable energy, sources 
of power generation have 
become much more diverse. 
Coal power plants  which 
produce predictable and stable outputs of power each day 
 were the power sources of 
the past. Now scientists must 
take into account the ?uctuations that are inherent to other 
forms of power, such as wind 
or solar power. 
Hugs research focuses 
on how to optimize the use 
of devices such as FACTS in 
the power grid. What values 
should they be set to? Should 
they be coordinated from a 
centralized control center or 
locally? Hug asked.
Another method to increase 
the power grids ?exibility is 
determining how to optimally 
integrate large-scale storage. 
Right now we dont have a 
lot of storage in the power 
system, Hug said. Whenever I ?ip a switch or use more 
power, the generator needs to 
change its output depending 
on what Im doing. Storage 
allows you to use some of the 
energy you have in your storage to supply your load. The 
problem is ?guring out when 
you should charge the storage 
and when you should use the 
energy from the storage.
The students who work 
with Hug conduct all their experiments computationally, as 
the real electric power grid is 
too big to test ideas on. Since 
the improvement of the power grid is a task that involves 
both scienti?c solutions and 
effective policy, Hug works 
with both engineering and 
policy students, with the policy group using mathematical 
models of the system to see 
the social and economic outcomes of applying the technical solutions provided by the 
engineering group.
Hug plans to use the NSF 
grant to further her research. 
As efforts to harness renewable energy improve, so too 
will our electric power grid 
system.
NIHARIKA SINGH 
Junior Staffwriter
Young people are notorious for being attached to 
their electronic devices. Now, 
the advent of Project Glass 
by Google  an initiative in 
wearable electronics  will 
only serve to strengthen this 
relationship. While computing devices that can be worn 
is not a new concept in itself, 
Googles in?uence on the 
technological world means 
that Project Glass could be 
one of the most popular manifestations of an electronic 
wardrobe.
Project Glass aims to create 
glasses with a built-in camera, 
screen, and computer that can 
provide people with information in real-time about the 
world around them. An ABC 
News article stated that a prototype will be released early 
this year for software developers. The actual glasses are 
scheduled to be released next 
year.
According to Daily Mail, 
the physical structure of these 
wearable computing glasses 
is simple: They will look like 
ordinary glasses with transparent LED screens that can 
display information overlaying on whatever the user is 
looking at. These glasses will 
be designed so that even users 
who already wear normal prescription glasses will be able 
to use them, either through 
screens with prescription 
lenses or models that can ?t 
over existing eye-wear. 
The glasses will be able 
to connect to the Internet to 
?nd information about whatever the user is looking at and 
can be controlled by the user 
through head tilts and other 
programmed gestures. There 
will also be headphones embedded into its frame that can 
give information to the user. 
Advertisers can even transmit information to the device 
based on the users proximity 
to their stores. Googles new 
invention will allow people to 
be connected to their environment at all times.
One of the most interesting features behind wearable 
computing glasses is that 
they have the ability to look 
up information by using images as search queries. There 
are many strategies available 
for doing so. VentureBeat, a 
technology blog, describes a 
strategy that involves using 
specialized search engines to 
parse the different parts of 
the picture.
Search engines also can 
be specialized. A picture can 
be searched on a text-recognition, landmark-recognition, facial-recognition, or 
household-object recognition 
search engine. The results 
from all these search engines 
could then be combined and 
sorted to only display those 
most relevant to the user. 
This way, the user not only receives information about the 
searched image itself, but also 
about items related to it. For 
example, a menu image will 
not only give the name of the 
restaurant itself, but also directions, reviews, and images 
of the restaurant.
One of the disadvantages 
of this type of searching is 
that it requires a lot of computational power and time. 
Fortunately, there are alternatives to the method of 
searching described. A paper 
published by Google engineers describes a way to make 
searching with images easier 
through the use of algorithms 
designed to distinguish between different types of colors and borders. 
These algorithms are good 
at picking out important colors and shapes in any given 
picture, allowing the most important parts of pictures to be 
emphasized. As a result, computational power can be used 
more ef?ciently.
Another technique involves the use of metadata. 
Metadata is information 
about the time and location 
of an image when a digital device takes pictures. This metadata can be used to narrow 
down search results and focus 
computational power only on 
relevant search areas.
As the world continues to 
advance in technology and 
computing power, wearable 
computing devices such as 
Project Glass will soon become commonplace, and 
could change how people interact with the world around 
them. 
Professor Lori Holt receives the Troland Research Award
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
A student comes into a 
laboratory and plays a video 
game. During the course of 
the game, the student is presented with unique sounds 
that she has never heard before. She has to quickly make 
a decision on where it came 
from, or she wont survive in 
the game for long. While the 
student already has her own 
developed sense of language, 
how does her brain react to 
and learn these new sounds?
This is one of the many 
questions being asked in the 
Speech Perception and Learning Laboratory, directed by 
psychology professor Lori 
Holt, whose research explores how the brain interprets sounds. Recently, the 
National Academy of Sciences 
(NAS) has acknowledged her 
important contributions to 
psychology by naming her a 
recipient of the Troland Research Award.
Each year, the Troland is 
given to only two researchers under the age of 40. Holt 
earned the award for her 
studies in advancing our 
understanding of the sensory 
and cognitive processes that 
are fundamental to the perception of speech, according to the NAS website. The 
award comes with a $50,000 
prize.
Holts lab is currently focusing on the language of 
speech, and how peoples experiences affect the way they 
hear language. According to 
Holt, Learning a language 
actually changes how you 
hear sounds, [so we are] very 
interested in this process and 
how that shapes the way we 
interpret speech.
The video game technique aims to help answer 
these questions by putting 
participants in a cognitive 
environment similar to that 
of an infants. Its a way of 
taking adults that already 
have established speech perception processes and putting them into a place where 
they mightve been when 
they were ?rst learning those 
sounds, Holt said. Monitoring the brain during these 
experiences could give valuable information regarding 
the mechanisms that occur 
in the brain when one learns 
a language for the ?rst time 
or even learns a second language.
Holts journey to speech 
cognitive psychology started 
by accident while she was 
an undergraduate at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. 
I basically wanted to try and 
stay on campus during the 
very long winter break, and a 
professor I was taking a class 
with asked me if I wanted to 
earn some money over the 
break, she said.
Holt spent the next few 
weeks taking care of Japanese quail that were being 
used in speech and cognition 
experiments. After her experience, Holt said she was 
kind of hooked on research, 
eventually staying to earn her 
Ph.D. from UW-Madison. She 
joined the Carnegie Mellon 
faculty in 1999, and has been 
further exploring speech cognition since.
In her lab, Holt is admired 
as a mentor by both her undergraduate and graduate researchers. One graduate student she works with is Matt 
Lehet, a psychology Ph.D. 
student. 
I am thrilled for Lori that 
she received the award and 
think it is completely justi?ed. 
She is at the top of her ?eld, 
is more proli?c than anyone 
I have ever encountered, and 
is a major reason I was so excited about coming to CMU, 
he said via email.
In addition to directing 
her lab, Holt teaches multiple 
courses in the psychology department. Rachel Browne, a 
junior civil and environmental engineering and cognitive 
science double major, has 
had Holt as a lecturer and has 
worked in her lab. [Holt] is 
a fascinating lecturer, and 
somehow makes the complex 
happenings of the brain seem 
easy to understand, she said 
via email.
Holt is also grateful for her 
opportunities at the university. She attributes some of 
her success to the Carnegie 
Mellon environment, which 
makes collaboration across 
departments easy. Crossdisciplinary interaction really happens very naturally 
at CMU, she said. According 
to Holt, her interactions with 
fabulous colleagues and collaborators have also had a 
large impact on her research.
Holt will receive her award 
from the NAS on April 29 in 
Washington, D.C., and will 
be the third Troland recipent 
from Carnegie Mellon. In the 
meantime, she will continue 
her groundbreaking research  
on the complex and mysterious functions of the human 
brain. 
HOW THINGS WORK
New Google glasses intensify 
idea of portable computing
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Gabriela Hug is working to make the U.S. electrical grid more ef?cient.
Courtesy of Lori Holt 
Psychology professor Lori Holt will travel to the National Academy of 
Sciences in Washington, D.C., to receive the Troland Research Award. 
The Troland is only given to two researchers under the age of 40 each 
year.
Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor

---------------------------------------------------

January 28, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
TartanHacks provides 24 hours of intense competition
Stem cell therapy to repair damaged knee cartilage
Rush University Medical 
Center is conducting the nations ?rst clinical study of 
Cartistem, a stem cell drug, to 
repair knee cartilage damage 
by aging, trauma, or degenerative disease. The stem cells 
are mixed with hyaluronan, a 
natural polymer that plays a 
major role in wound healing 
and is a building block of joint 
cartilage. A two-year study 
will determine the effectivenss of the treatment.
Cartistem would be administered to the affected 
area through arthroscopic 
surgery, a relatively common 
procedure. Dr. Brian Cole, the 
principle investigator of the 
study, said, With a burgeoning aging, yet active population, our patients are looking 
for effective nonjoint replacement solutions to treat their 
damaged knee cartilage.
Source: Science Daily
Adlie penguins: Cool, ef?cient killing machines
Nobody would suspect that 
Adlie penguins are silent assassins because of their comical waddling and bobbing 
on the surface of the sea. According to Yuuki Watanabe, a 
researcher at Japans National 
Institute, the penguins have 
an amazing stealth mode and 
attack to hunt down their 
prey. Tiny swarms of shrimp 
can wiggle their bodies in an 
attempt to escape, only to be 
gobbled up and swallowed 
whole by the penguin. As a 
way of being sneaky, the penguins sit on the edge of an iceberg and wait for the prey to 
appear before plunging in.
The researchers were 
able to determine the hunting technique of penguins by 
using underwater penguin 
cams that turned on whenever a penguin entered the 
water.
Source: Reuters 
Geneticist labeled mad scientist over 
Neanderthal cloning
Harvard geneticist George 
Church was labeled a mad 
scientist for allegedly seeking a female human to bear 
a cloned Neanderthal baby. 
Church, however, claims he 
only theorized that studying 
cloned Neanderthals can help 
scientists better understand 
how the human mind works. 
He is blaming the public backlash on a lack of scienti?c 
literacy. The public should 
be able to detect cases where 
things seem implausible, 
Church said.
Despite media opposition, 
he continues to speak publicly 
about his research, focusing 
on using genes extracted from 
Neanderthal DNA to treat and 
prevent diseases. These experiments raise ethical questions, like whether the clones 
will be treated as subjects or 
individuals.
Source: Reuters
Vomiting robot is being used for virus research
Larry, a robot that can 
projectile vomit, was created 
by Catherine Makison-Booth, 
a microbiologist at the United Kingdoms Health and 
Safety Laboratory in the Occupations Hygiene Unit. The 
robots esophagus is attached 
to a cylinder ?lled with water 
and ?uorescent liquid. The 
liquid, which is propelled by 
a special pump, shoots out of 
Larrys mouth, and can go as 
far as 10 feet.
Scientists hope to see how 
norovirus spreads from humans to humans, based on 
the trajectory of vomit and 
viral particles.  The norovirus 
affected over 880,000 people 
in the U.K. alone since last 
summer.
Source: Discovery News
NIH to retire over 300 chimpanzees to sanctuaries
The National Institute of 
Health (NIH) recently announced a possible move for 
some of its animals after a 
national panel of scientists 
recently concluded that over 
300 chimpanzees being used 
for testing by the NIH should 
be retired. Some chimps are 
already being sent to Chimp 
Haven, a 200-acre sanctuary 
in northwestern Louisiana.
The NIH plans to keep 
around 50 chimps in case 
they are needed for further 
testing, but would have to 
improve the chimps living 
conditions. The move was 
announced due to growing 
technological advances and 
ethical concerns over the use 
of chimps for testing.
Source: Associated Press  
Big Data apps are helping to track movement of ?u
A string of new apps and 
websites are being developed 
that can help people avoid 
the ?u. For example, Germ 
Tracker receives symptom 
data from social media platforms and tracks viruses as 
they spread. Help I Have 
Flu, developed by pharmaceutical startup Help Remedies, scans your friends social 
networking pro?les for words 
related to ?u, like cough 
or sneeze. The user will 
be alerted if someone in the 
network is sick. Google Flu 
Trends is another device that 
can track the ?u by using data 
from ?u-related searches.
Source: Discovery News
Compiled by
DESIREE XU 
SCITECH BRIEFS
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Junior Staffwriter 
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN 
Staffwriter
As students and faculty 
?nished the second week of 
the spring semester, nearly 
200 Carnegie Mellon students 
gathered their coffee, energy 
drinks, and inventive spirits 
as they prepared for TartanHacks.
TartanHacks is an annual, 
student-run hackathon hosted 
by the student organization 
ScottyLabs and its partners, 
the Carnegie Mellon School 
of Computer Science Undergraduate Program, Project 
Olympus, and Women@SCS. 
In addition, the event has attracted sponsorship and support from a number of companies, including Dropbox, 
Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, 
Facebook, eBay, Capital One, 
and Andreessen Horowitz. 
TartanHacks took place in designated hacking zones in the 
Gates Hillman Complex from 
6 p.m. last Friday to 6 p.m. 
Saturday.
This years winners included GoogleMinus, an app that 
allows users to search Blackboard as they would search 
terms on Google, which won 
Capital Ones sponsor prize 
for the most technically challenging hack. TaskMob, a 
real-time collaborative task 
management app for mobile 
devices, won the ?rst prize of 
$2,000. 
This year, keeping in line 
with the popular computer 
science notion of zero-based 
indexing (numbering starting from zero), there was also 
a zeroth prize, which was 
intended for the best team. 
Chronozone, which helps 
users monitor their location, 
won the zeroth prize of $2,000 
and a trip to the Dropbox headquarters in San Francisco. 
For those of us generally 
unfamiliar with the world of 
computer science, the word 
hackathon may have a negative connotation. However, a 
hackathon is actually an event 
where students dedicate 24 or 
48 hours to developing a project or application idea into 
a working application, using 
pre-existing external application programming interfaces 
(APIs) and a variety of web development tools.
Participants may work in 
teams of up to four people. At 
the end, each team presents 
their project to three categories of judges: the event organizers, a designated panel of 
judges, and sponsor judges. 
The event organizers give 
away a First Penguin Award  
 inspired by Randy Pauschs 
similar award  for the 
most daring idea. The sponsor judges, representatives 
from sponsor companies, give 
away prizes to their chosen 
hacks based on criteria such 
as most impressive user interface or most technically 
challenging. The designated 
panel awards ?rst, second, 
and third prizes to the hacks 
they deem most innovative. 
Although all students may 
participate, only undergraduate students may submit their 
projects to be evaluated for 
prizes.
This years hackathon featured hacks that would be useful for many aspects of college 
life. One group was developing a long-term scheduling 
app. For four-year plans, and 
scheduling things in the long 
term, CMU doesnt have anything really, Vikram Sunder, a 
sophomore computer science 
major, explained. The idea is 
that this app will take all the 
class information and build 
this giant directory. The app 
will tell a user when to take a 
certain class and list the prerequisites.
Carnegie Mellon alumnus Joseph Swernofsky, who 
won honorable mention for 
his groups online annotation app AnnotateMe, was 
a mentor this year. Mentors 
generally answer questions or 
help hackers through problems with their programs. In 
addition to student mentors, 
TartanHacks participants also 
had access to engineers from 
sponsor companies for help 
with their apps.
TartanHacks began last 
year, and was inspired by Penn 
Apps, a 48-hour hackathon 
that takes place twice a year 
at the University of Pennsylvania.
Throwing a hackathon 
was suggested to me by Vinay Vemuri, the co-founder of 
ScottyLabs. He participated in 
PennApps in the fall of 2011, 
and we agreed that by bringing a hackathon to CMU we 
could convince people to use 
the APIs that we were creating, Amy Quispe, senior in 
computer science and director 
of ScottyLabs, said.
Initially, Amy wanted to 
develop APIs that would allow students to build apps 
around CMUs datasets, i.e. 
scheduling, dining hours, and 
directory data, said Quintin 
Carlson a junior Decision Science major and project manager of TartanHacks. While 
that wasnt exactly what happened last year, this year, we 
are launching an early alpha 
of ScottyLabs APIs.
While TartanHacks may 
appear to be an event largely 
within the realm of those with 
technical backgrounds, it is an 
opportunity for people of a 
variety of ?elds to contribute. 
Its absolutely possible for 
non-technical majors to get 
involved. We have students 
from majors across the school 
compete in TartanHacks. Designers from CFA, statisticians 
from Dietrich, and entrepreneurs from Tepper all come 
out for this event, Carlson 
said via email.
For ?rst-timers, organizers 
arrange for crash courses on 
building applications, as well 
as courses in languages such 
as JavaScript, HTML, and 
CSS prior to the event. There 
is also a free agent mixer, 
which is a social event to facilitate forming teams, typically 
held on the night before the 
hackathon.
TartanHacks is an extremely friendly hackathon 
for ?rst timers.In fact, in this 
next year ScottyLabs wants to 
focus on uniting designers and 
hackers more. User experience design and visual design 
are becoming increasingly important, Quispe said.
TartanHacks can help students bring to life ideas that 
have lasting social implications. This years exhibit of 
hacks featured a mobilebased app that uses natural 
language processing to scan 
Facebook for posts from the 
users friends containing 
signs of depression or suicide. The app alerts the user 
via text message and posts an 
encouraging message on the 
wall of the Facebook friend. It 
also creates a link to a Google 
Hangout, which is texted to all 
friends of the depressed person who are users of the app, 
so that they can come together, via video conferencing, to 
help cheer him or her up.
With apps like this, TartanHacks is not limited to the 
technically savvy  its open 
to anyone with a desire to impact peoples lives.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Students collaborated in teams and worked for 24 hours straight in the annual TartanHacks hackathon.

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
LAYOUT
Chloe Chia
COPY
Swathi Anand, Manali Banerjee, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Matt Brown, Nivedita Chopra, Ellie 
Erlich, Blaine Greenberg, Jordyn Greenberg,  
Chris Han, Sage Po, Taylor Rawley, Julia Yang
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JUSTIN McGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD *
News Co-Editor
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
ABBY SMITH
Sports Co-Editor
GABRIELLE WEST
Sports Co-Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
LINDA JU
Advertising Manager
CARMEN KHOO
Business Manager
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Contributing Editor
EMILY DOBLER
Contributing Editor
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Contributing Editor
CHRISTA HESTER
Contributing Editor
ANNA WALSH
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  January 28, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
CATHERINE SPENCE
In response to the massive ponies 
chalked on the Merson Courtyard 
outside the University Center last 
week, Im here to say I dont understand brony culture. For those who 
don't know, brony culture is centered on the television series My 
Little Pony: Friendship is Magic, 
which ?rst aired in 2010.
Im not saying that adults watching childrens television programs 
confuses me. Ive seen my fair share 
of Lizzie McGuire and Hey Arnold 
reruns well into adulthood  but 
thats where I get confused. Even 
the youngest students at Carnegie 
Mellon were in their late teens in 
2010. So how do young adults stumble upon a television series whose 
target demographic is, according to 
The Wall Street Journal, threeto 
six-year old girl[s]?
Maybe the better question is, 
what leads college students to spend 
hours watching the show and drawing chalk versions of the characters in the freezing cold? The art of 
chalking is a special part of Carnegie 
Mellon culture  one governed by 
its own set of rules  and is used 
by many organizations to advertise 
events or raise awareness about various subjects. So whats the end goal 
for bronies chalking in the courtyard? Do they enjoy showing our 
campus what they care about, in the 
form of large-scale, pastel horses? 
Or am I completely misinterpreting 
brony culture and the motives behind the artwork?
Perhaps it's my lack of insider 
knowledge that keeps me from getting brony culture. I understand 
adults appreciating a good storyline, well-developed characters, or 
impressive animation  but here 
again, I get lost in my attempt to 
understand brony culture when it 
comes to bronies purchasing toys 
from the show and requesting better merchandise from Hasbro, as 
reported by wired.com in summer 
2011. Are bronies playing with these 
toys, re-enacting the show they 
adore, or are they purchasing the 
toys as a monetary way of showing 
support for the television program?
Obviously, voicing a dissenting 
opinion (at least within the Carnegie Mellon community) on an issue 
of this sort is sure to prompt backlash from bronies and their supporters. And while I have no right 
to dictate what is normal or how 
people should spend their free time, 
I would like to understand the motivation behind this subculture better 
than I do now.
Im not alone. Anyone who reads 
the Facebook page CMU Confessions knows the war between the 
bronies and the anti-bronies rages 
on between anonymous posters and 
outspoken individuals with con?icting opinions, with little progress toward acceptance or understanding 
from either party.
Although I ?nd brony culture 
odd, and a bit confusing, I do not 
mean to be offensive to those who 
feel strongly about watching the 
television show or spending hours 
in Merson Courtyard chalking these 
ponies. My ?nal takeaway from the 
research I did for this article  and 
from my interactions with Carnegie 
Mellon's self-proclaimed bronies 
 is that I might never understand 
brony culture, but its de?nitely not 
going away anytime soon.
Catherine Spence (cspence@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Help me to understand your interests, bronies
SATVIKA NETI
Junior Staffwriter 
Whether people are talking 
about Beyonces alleged lip syncing 
or about President Obamas inaugural speech, everyone can agree that 
Obamas inauguration was incredibly controversial.
It seems as if the gloves are off for 
Obama in his last term as president, 
and hes not pulling any punches 
this time.
His speech begs the question: 
After such a politically charged ?rst 
term and divisive second election, 
why would he make it such a point 
to introduce his liberal views in his 
inauguration address?
In the speech, he talked about gay 
rights: Our journey is not complete 
until our gay brothers and sisters are 
treated like anyone else under the 
law, for if we are truly created equal, 
then surely the love we commit to 
one another must be equal, as well.
He advocated for more liberal 
immigration laws: Our journey is 
not complete until we ?nd a better 
way to welcome the striving, hopeful immigrants who still see America 
as a land of opportunity, until bright 
young students and engineers are 
enlisted in our workforce rather 
than expelled from our country.
He even mentioned climate control, something he didnt spend 
very much time on during his presidential campaign, and called out 
the people who oppose it: We will 
respond to the threat of climate 
change, knowing that the failure to 
do so would betray our children and 
future generations. Some may still 
deny the overwhelming judgment of 
science, but none can avoid the devastating impact of raging ?res, and 
crippling drought, and more powerful storms.
He also implied that he plans on 
using more of his executive power 
this term and working things from 
an administrative angle, instead of 
spending his time in lengthy arguments with his conservative opponents in Congress.
While I agree with many of his 
policies as a feminist-environmentalist-gay rights liberal, it scares me 
a little that hes willing to alienate a 
lot of America that quickly.
The size of the rift between the 
two parties is disconcerting, but 
what scares me more is the rift between the ideologies. 
Its getting to the point where 
compromise seems to not only be a 
taboo word in Congress, but a concept that doesnt seem possible anymore.
I dont want such a divided country. 
I dont want partisan ?ghts like 
the debt ceiling crisis and the ?scal 
cliff ?asco to keep happening. 
The country seems to be in a 
high-pressure political mess of 
rights, health care, and religion, and 
I think Obamas speech, while glowing and offering the kind of change 
that I would love to see, turned up 
the heat.
Obama creates divide
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
University must strive to perfect CMU Alert system
The message is clear: Dont text and walk on campus
Think before telling the Facebook world how you feel
On Tuesday, Harold Taylor Jr., 
a 59-year-old man who worked for 
Eaton Electrical Company, died in an 
electrical accident while working in 
Wean Hall. Soon after the incident, 
the Carnegie Mellon alert system, 
CMU ALERT Emergency Noti?cation 
System (ENS), sent out the following 
message: As you may be aware, a 
number of emergency ?rst responders are in Wean Hall responding to 
an isolated incident involving an 
individual working with an outside 
contractor. There is no cause for 
evacuation or other precaution. 
While the alert was intended to 
calm any possible anxieties raised 
by the presence of medical personnel on campus, the wording of the 
message was imprecise and unclear, 
which could only serve to deepen 
those anxieties. Some students received an incomprehensible message 
containing typographical errors.
CMU ALERT ENS has been a work 
in progress since its creation. Sometimes students do not receive alerts 
in a timely fashion even when potentially dangerous situations, such as 
the northeast earthquake in 2011, 
are unfolding on or near campus. 
These issues ?rst came to light during the Spring 2012 semester, when 
both Carnegie Mellon and the University of Pittsburgh suffered bomb 
scares and a shooting occurred at 
UPMCs Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic of UPMC.
Students clearly need to be noti?ed of incidents of this magnitude, 
especially when they occur on or 
near campus. However, Taylors 
death was not a state of emergency 
 his death, while obviously carrying emotional weight, did not have 
immediate impact on the university. 
The alert clearly directs the disturbance away from the school, stating that the incident was isolated 
and involved an individual working 
with an outside contractor. 
If the event did not involve a university community member, and was 
not a threat of widespread violence, 
was an immediate alert necessary? 
As the alert stated, there was no 
cause for evacuation or other precaution. Carnegie Mellon handled 
this incident well, but perhaps the 
warning was unnecessary. 
For this type of tragic situation, 
CMU ALERT ENS could have sent 
out a campus-wide email later when 
it had more information, instead of 
issuing a campus alert so soon after 
the incident.
Laura Safe, a radio newscaster, 
was texting her boyfriend when she 
fell into a canal in Birmingham, England outside a local shopping center. 
Despite the freezing water, Safe was 
rescued without injury.
Although this accident had a happy ending, many accidents resulting 
from walking and texting do not. 
According to the Consumer Product 
Safety Commission, 1,152 Americans visited the emergency room in 
2011 after sustaining injuries while 
walking and using a hand-held electronic device.
With so many injuries caused by 
simultaneously texting and walking, 
it is a wonder that people continue to 
perform such a dangerous action.
We realize that it may seem obvious not to text and walk, but sometimes its hard to resist the allure of 
a buzzing cell phone in ones pocket.
We see people rapidly texting 
while crossing the corner of Forbes 
and Morewood. We see them checking Facebook or changing their music while shuf?ing along the Cut. We 
even see them bumping into others 
on the way to class while playing 
Temple Run or Angry Birds.
Most of us at The Tartan are 
guilty of distracted walking on campus. Therefore, weve created a set of 
rules that we try to follow ourselves. 
Wed like to share them with you:
Dont text while walking  unless its an emergency. Even then, 
you might want to call whomever it 
is youre texting. No matter the case, 
pay attention to your surroundings.
Facebook posts and Fruit Ninja 
can wait until you reach your destination. Sure, you might have to wait 
a few minutes to break your high 
score, but at least you wont be an accident waiting to happen. 
You might even see people you 
havent seen for a while as they walk 
by. Maybe youll discover something 
new on campus, like the latest message on the fence, or the universitys 
new robotic squirrel.
You could even realize that 10 
minutes away from technology while 
walking to class is liberating.
If none of those reasons to put 
your phone down are appealing, at 
least other people around you  if 
they arent already on their own 
phones  will appreciate not being 
bumped into.
Although you may not have to 
worry about falling into a canal, you 
can ensure that you arent a victim of 
distracted walking while on campus.
The National Labor Relations 
Board (NLRB) has asserted that they 
can protect online postings to the 
same degree as verbal discussions of 
working conditions. The NLRB helps 
union workers organize and curtail 
an employers ability to prevent employees from discussing their working conditions. However, the NLRB 
protections are only useful in narrow 
circumstances; it is still important to 
consider what we say online and remain professional at all times.
According to The New York 
Times, the NLRB recently ruled that 
it was illegal for a nonpro?t social 
services provider, Hispanics United 
of Buffalo, to dismiss ?ve employees 
based on angry posts made on Facebook. Case worker Mariana ColeRivera had made accusations online 
that other employees were not pulling their own weight. In response to 
her accusations, another case worker 
asked My fellow co-workers, how 
do you feel? Several employees responded to the question with unrestrained, often profane, posts.
Hispancs United said the posts 
violated its harassment policies, but 
the NLRB says that the posts  even 
the profane ones  are protected, 
since the employees were discussing 
conditions with each other in a way 
the board found to be a concentrated 
effort to offer mutual aid.
In recent years the intersection of 
social media, free speech, and antiharassment policies has been turbulent. Schools have punished students 
for cyberbullying and employers 
have ?red workers for negative remarks in both of?cial and unof?cial 
capacities. The Internet isnt private; 
the repercussions of a heated post 
could be dire.
However, the protection granted 
by the NLRB is limited to online discussions between workers about improving conditions or wages. It also 
only applies to workplace situations, 
and not to schools and students. And 
even in cases where the NLRB can 
intervene, its better to tread cautiously  theres no guarantee that 
labor regulators will rule against the 
employer.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
January 28, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Compiled by Kelsey Scott
The Tartan is really excited about snow this week. So we asked,
How did you enjoy the ?rst big snowstorm of the season?
XIYU WANG
Junior Staffwriter 
The age of information presents 
a strange paradox: We can know 
what happens on the other side of 
the world in a matter of minutes, but 
most Americans remain relatively 
uninformed about the world's most 
important issues.
In 2012, a Fairleigh Dickinson 
University study revealed that less 
than half of Americans could answer 
questions correctly about international news and domestic affairs. 
A 2009 Pew Poll revealed that the 
publics ability to judge the accuracy 
of news stories is at a 20-year low. 
Despite an increase in the amount 
of information people can access, 
the public is still uninformed. Even 
worse, the institutions informing the 
public seem to have degraded.
In the past, when there was a 
limited number of media sources, 
people put their con?dence in a few 
large news companies. These companies, who could depend on a steady 
stream of differing views, were invested in informing Americans and 
greatly valued the quality of their 
own reporting. Due to explosive 
growth in communications technology, however, people now have vast 
amounts of information at their 
?ngertips. 
The Information Age has not only 
changed the nature of the American 
news media, but also of the American viewer. Because of the great 
number of news sources that have 
cropped up, people can pick and 
choose where they get their information. Naturally, they pick the most 
entertaining sources.
As a result, news sources today 
compete for views and advertisement revenue by catering to what 
people want to see, rather than what 
they need to see. Investigative journalism has become time consuming 
and costly in an age where the national attention has been enthralled 
by instantaneous blogging and Twitter. News sources focus on making news entertaining rather than 
informative through sensationalist 
reporting, celebrity gossip, or vociferous media personalities.
In that same vein, news stations 
targeting a speci?c demographic, 
such as FOX and MSNBC, have also 
been on the rise. Though these 
sources are very pro?table, they are 
undoubtedly biased and are often 
less informative than more objective news sources, according to the 
Fairleigh Dickinson study. Of course, 
there are also relatively accurate, 
news-focused sources out there, 
such as NPR, the BBC, and C-SPAN, 
but they do not receive the national 
attention that their more gimmicky 
counterparts do.
The real problem lies in the 
fact that the Age of Information, 
although it has done much good, 
has also allowed news sources to 
indulge in entertainment and frivolity, distracting them and their audience from the issues that matter. 
To make America more informed, 
we have to change the people, not 
the technology.
Public lost in Age of Information
WILLIAM PARK
The world of sports has always 
had its liars: Pete Rose, Lance Armstrong, and Barry Bonds, to name 
a few. Now, this shameful company 
makes room for one more member 
 Manti Teo.
This college football season, Teo, 
22, was the owner of an incredible 
story. Motivated by the deaths of his 
grandmother and girlfriend, he carried the University of Notre Dame to 
a 121 record. Only the girlfriend 
 Lennay Kekua never existed. Teo 
and Kekua maintained an online 
relationship and never met face to 
face; it turns out she was the ?ction 
of another mans cruelty. Last Thursday, during an interview with Katie 
Couric, Teo admitted that he lied to 
cover the hoax.
That Teo admitted the truth 
without a ?ght is enough to distinguish him from sports more notorious liars. Yet, it would be an understatement to say that he was just the 
victim of his own naivet. Teo, as 
gullible as he was, also wanted his 
story to be true. He cherished the 
attention and the meaning others 
drew from his story.
The only thing that I basked in 
was that I had an impact ... people 
turned to me for inspiration, he told 
Couric. To become that inspirational 
?gure, he ignored the numerous red 
?ags in his false relationship. Once 
he ignored the ?ags, his story became too good to give up.
Though Teo is the central character in this tale, he is not the only 
one who deserves criticism.
For all the attention on Teo, few 
in the media have pointed out their 
own gullibility. Since Kekua supposedly died on Sept. 12, publications 
such as Sports Illustrated and the 
Chicago Tribune covered this improbable story without any source 
other than Teo himself. For nearly 
four months, no one bothered con?rming the death of Kekua. Within 
?ve days, Deadspin, the sports website that ?rst broke the story, was 
able to investigate and publish their 
article upon receiving a tip.
That the media remained clueless for so long does not necessarily show poor journalism, but show 
our fascination with heroic athletes. 
Herein lies the bigger problem. Elite 
athletes should never be worshiped, 
but respected from afar. Collegiate 
athletes, in particular, are unworthy and not mature enough for this 
status. Responsibility then lies with 
the university to protect its student 
athletes.
At Texas A&M University, ?rstyear football players are not allowed 
to speak with the media. Had such 
a policy existed for Teo, who knows 
if we would have even heard of his 
girlfriend. The sad thing is that it 
would not have made any difference. For some reason, his head 
coach, Brian Kelly, had to tell reporters of his tragic story.
As much as Teo had to gain 
from this story, so did Notre Dame  
through the tickets fans bought to 
see this phenomenon  the high 
school football player who saw 
Notre Dame as a place to build his 
own story. Its unfortunate that little 
is done to protect and nurture these 
young men in the mega-million dollar enterprise that is college football.
As the many layers of the tale of 
Teo unravel, it becomes more apparent that Teo is not the only one 
who should be scrutinized. I ?nd 
it disheartening that he is the one 
who is being ripped apart while the 
important institutions surrounding 
him remain unscathed.
Nevertheless, every tale needs a 
moral. My take for this tale: Dont 
trust everything on the Internet.
William Park (wkp@) is assisant 
Forum editor for The Tartan.
Dont just blame Teo
KYLE HENSON
In the wake of the recent shooting in Newtown, Conn., President 
Obama issued a series of 23 executive 
orders designed to act in place of gun 
control legislation. While they may 
be well intended, these executive orders are completely unconstitutional, 
incorrect, and abhorrent.
Heres a fun fact: The words executive and order never appear 
together in the Constitution. Executive orders came about as a way for 
higher-ups in the executive branch to 
tell others in the executive branch, 
like the U.S. Department of Justice, 
how to better execute the will of the 
legislature. They are not and were 
never intended to replace legislation.
Imagine this hypothetical scenario that Charles Krauthammer, a 
Washington Post columnist, brought 
up when President Obama used executive orders to essentially bring the 
failed Dream Act into being.
Consider if former presidential 
candidate Mitt Romney had won the 
election in November  say he makes 
it his ?rst priority to eliminate the 
capital gains tax. Legislation is created and brought to Congress. It passes 
the house and then Senate Majority 
Leader Harry Reid never brings it to 
the ?oor in the Senate, where it dies. 
A frustrated Romney then issues an 
executive order to the IRS, a part of 
the executive branch, saying that collecting the capital gains tax is not a 
priority and people wont be audited 
or persecuted for failing to pay it.
The liberal uproar would be deafening. People left and right would 
slam Romney for bypassing the Constitution and creating his own legislation. They would be right to do so. 
We elected a President and a Congress, not a king and some jesters, 
even though it feels that way sometimes. There is a reason the President 
is given no legislative power other 
than a veto, which can be overruled. 
The Constitution clearly outlines a 
path for laws to be created. This is 
not that path. This is a dangerous 
slippery slope to a government that 
is not representative of the people. 
Founding father John Adams is famous for wanting a government of 
laws and not of men. This is the opposite of that. One man should not 
have the power to legislate anything 
under any circumstances.
That this is the second time the 
President has signi?cantly gone 
around Congress to legislate is disgusting. 
This is a president who ran against 
former President George W. Bush, 
calling his an imperial presidency. 
This is the man who said that all laws 
before Congress would be put online 
for the people to read before they 
were passed, and then celebrated the 
passage of Obamacare within a week. 
The hypocrisy of Obamas presidency should enrage every American 
citizen, and these executive orders 
should be greeted with disdain, not 
approval.
In my mind, our President may 
as well have gone into the National 
Archives and vandalized the Constitution. Throughout our history, we 
have let times of crisis destroy the 
liberty that made our nation great. 
Were doing it again. 
There is a way for appropriate 
legislation that prevents guns from 
getting into the hands of people like 
Adam Lanza to come about. Our government should be allowed to work 
the way it was designed to and not be 
bypassed by politicians who clearly 
have no respect for our founding 
principles or for representative government altogether.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Our Constitution must be respected, not abused by a king
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Heres a fun 
fact: The words 
executive and 
order never 
appear together in 
the Constitution.
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Samantha Dickinson
Creative Writing, Linguistics 
Junior
It sucked.
Shreepal Shah
Computer Science, HCI
Junior
It was good. I was inside the 
entire time so I didnt really experience it. It hasnt been too cold.
Joseph Bradley
Machine Learning
Graduate Student
I wasnt here so it was fine. I 
shoveled a driveway.
Jacquelyn Gutierrez
Design, Production
First-year
Sledding for the first time with 
my new friends! It will be something to remember.
Rachel Pustejovsky
Directing
Sophomore
Can I have my beach and Miami 
back? Also, driving in the snow 
was really scary.

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  January 28, 2013
SPORTS COMMENTARY49ers vs. Ravens in Super Bowl XLVII
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The Super Bowl is the pinnacle of American sports. Its 
the most-watched event on 
television, with nearly 177 
million viewers tuning into 
last years big game for at 
least six minutes according 
to NBC. This years match-up 
between the Baltimore Ravens and the San Francisco 
49ers is one of the most interesting Super Bowls in recent 
history, both on and off the 
?eld.
The ?rst thing anyone will 
mention about Super Bowl 
XLVII is the coaches. John 
Harbaugh, head coach of the 
Ravens, and Jim Harbaugh, 
head coach of the 49ers, are 
the ?rst set of brothers to 
ever coach in the same Super Bowl.  They are also the 
?rst set of brothers to come 
to a Super Bowl on different 
teams.
 The HarBowl nearly 
came to fruition last year, 
but both teams lost in their 
respective conference championship games. The media 
have had a full year to work 
on every pun and nickname 
involving the Harbaughs and 
the Super Bowl and is now 
unleashing all of its pent-up 
efforts on the world. 
Ravens linebacker Ray 
Lewis is the other source of 
headlines, as he told reporters in the last week of the season that this season would be 
his last. 
Lewis has been a polarizing player in his career, mostly stemming from his alleged 
involvement in the murders 
of Jacinth Baker and Richard 
Lollar during a ?ght that took 
place at a party celebrating 
the Ravens victory in Super Bowl XXXV (Lewis was 
named MVP of the game). 
Lewis entered into a plea 
bargain, in which he pleaded 
guilty to obstruction of justice 
and had his murder charges 
dropped in exchange for testifying against his friends.
Lewis received one-year 
probation and a $250,000 
?ne from the NFL, and has 
been improving his image 
ever since.
While these stories may 
appeal more to the casual 
fan, for football fans, this 
Super Bowls real intrigue 
comes from the matchup of 
teams on the turf. 
Both the 49ers and Ravens feature run-?rst offenses, as well as pounding 
defenses that force turnovers 
and smother the other team. 
Each team has had excellent 
performances from quarterbacks whose abilities were 
initially questioned coming 
into the season.
The 49ers hopes rest on 
the shoulders of inexperienced quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who replaced an injured Alex Smith in week 10. 
Kaepernicks play convinced 
Jim Harbaugh to make an 
of?cial starting quarterback 
change once Smith was 
cleared to play. At the time 
of Smiths injury, Smith was 
named as the NFC Offensive 
Player of the Week, so Harbaughs decision to make 
Kaepernick the starting quarterback was highly criticized. 
Harbaughs switch appears to have paid off. Kaepernicks ability to throw as well 
as run was instrumental in 
the 49ers victory against the 
Green Bay Packers and forced 
the Atlanta Falcons to construct a game plan around 
Kaepernick. This opened up 
room for running back Frank 
Gore to smash through defensive lines and punch the 
49ers a ticket to the Super 
Bowl.
Baltimore has had its own 
quarterbacking issues with 
?fth-year starter Joe Flacco 
taking constant abuse from 
Ravens fans. He has been 
criticized for his inconsistent 
play and seeming inability to 
win the big game. Flacco is 
the only quarterback in NFL 
history to lead his team to the 
playoffs in each of his ?rst 
?ve seasons. 
However, his propensity 
for untimely turnovers  
and the perception that his 
success is owed to a strong 
running game and stellar defense  makes this a moot 
point in the eyes of the Ravens faithful. 
The difference this year 
is that Flacco is performing 
well. Flacco has gone toe 
to toe with three of the best 
quarterbacks in the AFC: 
the Colts Andrew Luck, the 
Broncos Peyton Manning, 
and the Patriots Tom Brady. 
In each game, he came out on 
top  not just on the score 
board, but on the stats sheet 
as well.
The two Super-Bowl-destined teams are both at the 
top of their games, performing better than ever before. 
Super Bowl XLVII provides 
chances for family bragging 
rights, for a player to end his 
Hall-of-Fame-worthy career 
on top, and for one of two 
quarterbacks to silence the 
critics once and for all. The 
drama of the bowl has taken 
on a personal side, fueling 
televisions most-watched 
event.
This, combined with a Beyonc halftime show and entertaining commercials, will 
surely make this years Super 
Bowl the absolute must-see 
thing on television.
ATHLETE PROFILESeth Cordts shoots for academic, athletic success
ABBY SMITH
Sports Co-Editor
Sophomore Seth Cordts, 
affectionately known by his 
coach and teammates as 
Zeff, knows how to dunk 
and do it all.
The mechanical and biomedical engineering double 
major has maintained a rigorous course load while playing 
on the Carnegie Mellon mens 
basketball team.
His hard work and persistence have proven to be a 
necessity to the team, which 
currently stands at a 16 University Athletics Association 
Conference record. Weve 
had a lot of tough breaks and 
close games, Cordts said.
Yet he still holds onto his 
preseason expectations of a 
great season, as long as his 
teammates forget about the 
past losses, and ?nish out 
strong.
The Tartans luck seems 
to be slowly reversing. The 
team won 7574 in an overtime thriller against the University of Chicago Maroons                
yesterday.
Cordts proved crucial in 
overtime, putting the team 
ahead shortly before junior 
Asad Meghani, one of the 
team captains, made the 
game-winning basket.
Cordts believes the biggest 
team accomplishments were 
the wins against Bethany College and LaRoche College, 
but also cited the teams performances in losses as well. 
Weve certainly fought, 
every step of the way, Cordts 
said.
Cordts has helped greatly 
in the Tartans ?ght, becoming a leader in both shooting 
and ball control.
It was great to become a 
starter this season, Cordts 
said. But even more so, I felt 
as though I became a leader 
and helped my team play       
better.
A native of Amherst, N.H., 
and a triplet with two athletic 
sisters, Zeff has played basketball since the third grade 
and has since fallen in love 
with the quick pace of the 
game. 
You win one, you lose 
one; its a quick turnaround. 
You can have an awful game 
one day and the best game 
of your life the next, Cordts 
said. 
He mentioned the sport is 
signi?cantly different on the 
college level, and described 
it as more competitive, and 
physically demanding.
Yet for Cordts, the hard 
work pays off, as the excitement of making a good shot 
is universal.
Seth has come a long way 
since his ?rst year, Meghani 
said. Hes always brought a 
great attitude and great work 
ethic to the team. Hes always 
putting in extra work, whether it be in the weight room 
or shooting drills. He has a 
bright future ahead of him.
Cordts emphasizes not 
only the excitement of the 
sport, but the camaraderie 
developed as being a member 
of a team. The team is very 
close and [we] always have 
a good time together.
Usually when we go out 
to eat on away trips, we tell 
the waitress that it is someones birthday, even when its 
not, Cordts said.
Especially with the Carnegie Mellon basketball team, 
the team chemistry is what I 
love the most. We both play 
and study together. You know 
that youll be long-lasting 
friends with your teammates, he said. 
The respect is certainly 
mutual, as Cordts has been 
hailed by his teammates 
for his work ethic. 
Seth brings a contagious amount of 
focus and hard work 
every day to practice, sophomore 
Drew Holinski said. 
This isnt 
easy to do 
by itself. 
But Seth 
did it while 
carrying 
a 4.0 GPA 
and working 1520 
hours per 
week last 
semester.
Despite 
his borderline-crazy schedule, Cordts 
continues to serve as a role 
model for the team. 
When somebody on the 
team thinks that they cant 
summon up a little more 
energy in practice because of a hectic week or 
heavy work load, it helps 
to look at Seth and know 
that we have no right 
to make   excuses, 
Holinski said. 
It wouldnt 
be a stretch to 
label Seth as 
CMUs exemplar of 
hard work 
and time 
management.
ELIZABETH MARTIN
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon mens 
swimming competed away 
against Denison Universitys 
Big Red on Saturday, falling to 
the national powerhouse with 
a score of 141128. 
Although the team lost the 
meet, the Tartans fought hard 
and saw numerous stellar performances throughout the day.
Sophomore Andrew Yee 
had two impressive ?nishes in 
the meet. In the mixed 1,650-
yard freestyle, Yee ?nished  
third place in the event in 
16:37.25, and  ?nished the 50-
yard freestyle in  4:46.34.
The Tartans dominance 
was displayed in the freestyle 
events. First-year Christopher 
Wysocki placed second with 
10:00.23, followed by fellow 
teammate ?rst-year Joseph 
Robinson, who ?nished third 
with a time of 10:24.76.
First-year Steven Geiers 
time of 1:45.84 placed him second in the 200-yard freestyle, 
while ?rst-year Lucas Bruder 
earned third place in the 100-
yard freestyle with a time of 
50.44. Lastly, junior Terrence 
Wong competed in the 50-yard 
freestyle, placing second with 
a time of 22.12.
Two Tartans competed especially well in the backstroke 
event: Sophomore Michael 
Kellman ?nished second in 
the 100-yard backstroke with 
a time of 54.28 and teammate 
Geier placed third in the 200-
yard backstroke with 1:59.73.
Sophomores Cole Um and 
Roy Sung ?nished second in 
two different breaststroke 
events. Um placed second in 
the  100-yard breaststroke 
with a time of 1:01.73. 
In the 200-yard breaststroke, Sung ?nished in 
2:14.49. Sung also ?nished 
second in the 200-yard individual medley (IM) to teammate ?rst-year Matthew 
Nielsen, who ?nished ?rst by 
half a second..
Carnegie Mellons domination continued into the butter?y events. Senior Brandon 
Yee was victorious in the 200-
yard butter?y with a time of 
1:55.76, and in the 100-yard 
butter?y, Wong ?nished second with a time of 52.54.
Wysocki attributed the loss 
to strenuous practices leading 
up to the meet. 
I did not think we performed well, Wysocki said. 
That being said, we had a lot 
of tough workouts leading up 
to the meet.
 Um agreed. It was a long 
week, and a lot of traveling. As 
a team you have your ups and 
downs. We know we will perform better next time, he said.
Carnegie Mellons nationally-ranked team was coming off 
big wins against SUNY Geneseo and Westminster College 
on Saturday, Jan. 19 with 194
92 and 19790, respectively. 
[The meet] went well and 
it was nice to get that recognition, Um said. We worked for 
it, and it paid off. 
The Tartans performed 
well in the breaststroke events, 
with Farr placing second in the 
200-yard breaststroke.
I feel like we performed 
well in the meet against [SUNY 
Geneseo and Westminster College], Wysocki said. It set a 
positive tone for the rest of the 
season.
I think we can hopefully 
win the conference championships and have a lot of swimmers qualify for the NCAA 
Championships, he said.
I hope that we can ?nish 
better than we did last year, 
Um added.
The team will take on the 
University of Pittsburgh at 
11:30 a.m. on Feb. 2 at home.
VINAY VISWANATHAN
Junior Staffwriter
The womens basketball 
team won 7668 against the 
University of Chicago Maroons at home yesterday, 
bringing the Tartans to 117 
overall and 34 in the University Athletic Association 
(UAA) conference.
First-year guard Amanda 
McHenry, sophomore guard 
Gabrielle West, senior forward Emily Peel, and ?rst-year 
forward Liza Otto all made big 
plays that contributed to the 
teams win. West was the Tartans leading scorer, accumulating a total of 17 points and 
establishing a halftime lead. 
Our composure and focus 
stayed strong until the very 
end when we needed it most, 
Otto said.
Peel and Otto both had excellent games, scoring double 
digits by taking advantage of 
rebounds and three-pointers. 
McHenry had a 10-point run 
late into the second half to 
break the 6161 tie with two 
minutes to go.
Our positive attitude and 
ability to play together within 
our system when the game got 
close helped the team win today, said senior captain Tori 
Baggio.
On Friday, however, the 
team was not able to work as 
well, and experienced a dif?-
cult conference match against 
the ladies from Washington 
University in St. Louis, losing 
7357.
The Washington University in St. Louis Bears, coming 
off a monstrous 6028 rout 
of Brandeis University, had 
momentum and energy on 
their side as they displayed 
focus and aggression against 
the Tartans. The Bears are 
currently 152 in the season, 
with ?ve wins and just one 
loss in the UAA conference.
The Bears started out 
strong, scoring 20 points 
against the Tartans 10 in the 
?rst eight-and-a-half minutes 
of the game; the Tartans only 
experienced a lead once in the 
game (three minutes into the 
match), with the Bears leading the rest of the game.
The Bears rounded out the 
?rst half of the game with a 
score of 3428 and, despite a 
good comeback effort in the 
middle of the second half by 
the Tartans, the Bears performed exceptionally toward 
the end of the game.
First-year center Lauren 
Maturo said, We needed to 
be more aggressive, especially 
on defense, pointing out that 
the team did not display the 
intensity it exhibited in wins 
earlier in the season. Maturo 
added that [Washington University in St. Louis] went to 
the free-throw line twice as 
much as we did, which head 
coach Jacquie Hullah told the 
team that it was one of the 
weakest points in their game.
Despite the shortcomings 
voiced by the team, others 
praised its positive qualities. 
Lisa Natale, a ?rst-year engineering major and supporter, 
praised the team for the great 
communication and team dynamic between players. 
The Bears doubled the Tartans in points-off turnovers 
and second-chance points, 
contributed nine rebounds 
more than the Tartans, and 
contributed ?ve fewer turnovers. First-year guard Lindsay Poss led the squad in scoring with 13 points, while Otto 
grabbed 10 rebounds.
The Tartans will journey 
to St. Louis to face the Bears 
again on Friday to close out 
the last month of regular-season play on a high note.
Editors Note: Gabrielle West 
is Sports Co-Editor for The 
Tartan.
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Senior forward Emily Peel goes in for a layup in Fridays game against Washington University in St. Louis. 
Mens swimming, diving falls at Denison
Jonathan Leung/ Assistant Photo Editor
Womens basketball breaks losing streak against UChicago Maroons

---------------------------------------------------

Entropy+ cooking
Reimagine your campus diet with these  
surprisingly decadent recipes  B8
01.28.13 Volume 107, Issue 15

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Check out this weeks comics to remind you of 
your childhood.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents three movies this weekend, 
including the ever-popular Rocky Horror.
7
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about what music journalism 
should be.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal
ART EDITOR Annette Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Laura Scherb
8
34610
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about bartenderstalking and rap music.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Les Mis
The Broadway show enraptures audiences at 
the Benedum Center.
3
The Tender Land
The Carnegie Mellon School of Music presents 
Aaron Coplands Depression-era opera.
4
Toro y MoiChaz Bundicks latest album demonstrates 
growth through change.
5
Son 
The final installment in Lowrys The Giver 
quartet falls short of exploring evil.
6
Book tour
Blogger and entrepreneur Chris Guillebeau 
discusses finding passion in your work.
7
Cooking
Check out these easy recipes that you can 
make from ingredients found at Entropy+. 
8
Fashion
Make your own clothing by reusing copies of 
The Tartan.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that 25 years ago, a man tried 
to steal a printer from the university? 
10
Puzzles
Are this weeks puzzles challenging enough for 
you?
13
Horoscopes
Seeking guidance in the stars? The 
horoscopes are here to help.
14
Calendar
Find out whats happening this week on 
campus and in the community. 
15

---------------------------------------------------

theater
pillbox 01.28.133
Les Mis shines on stage
Broadway show demonstrates power of live performance
The movie adaptation of Les Misrables may be 
garnering plenty of critical acclaim, but last weekend 
Pittsburghers had the opportunity to see the 
musical as it was meant to be viewed: on the stage. 
PNC Broadway Across America presented a 25th 
anniversary production of Les Mis at the Benedum 
Center and proved that, despite the advantages 
big-budget Hollywood productions may have, there 
is magic in a live production that cannot be captured 
on screen.
The iconic musical, based on the novel by Victor 
Hugo, documents the life of Jean Valjean (Peter 
Lockyer), a compassionate convict who breaks his 
parole to form a new life after spending 19 years in 
prison for stealing a loaf of bread. He is pursued by 
Javert (Andrew Varela), a police inspector with a 
fierce devotion to the letter of the law. The musical 
also centers around issues of class politics and 
unrest, as Valjeans adopted daughter Cosette 
(Lauren Wiley) falls in love with Marius (Carnegie 
Mellon alumnus Devin Ilaw), an idealistic, politicallyminded student who gets involved in an attempted 
revolution in Paris.
Les Mis is almost entirely sung, with only two 
lines of straight dialogue, meaning that the actors 
must be phenomenal singers in order for the show 
to succeed  and the Broadway Across America 
production certainly didnt disappoint. Although 
Lockyer initially sounded as if he was holding back 
 he spoke-sung several of his lines in the opening 
numbers  any hesitance about his singing quickly 
disappeared as he belted out the final notes of 
Valjeans Soliloquy. His rendition of Bring Him 
Home was similarly stunning; Lockyers incredible 
use of vibrato was goosebump-inducing. Varela as 
Javert stood in perfect contrast to Valjean: He had 
a fiery stage presence that exemplified Javerts 
unquestioning dedication to the law.
Another highlight was Ilaw (CFA 07) as Marius. 
Although Marius is written as a fairly onedimensional character, Ilaw brought new emotional 
depth to the character during his heart-wrenching 
rendition of Empty Chairs and Empty Tables. In 
contrast to Marius sweet idealism, Timothy Gulan 
was bone-chillingly nefarious as the entertaining but 
thieving Thnardier. In Dog Eats Dog especially, 
one couldnt help but shudder while watching 
Thnardier cackle as he pried gold teeth out of a 
corpse in the sewers.
The technical details of the production were also 
highly impressive. The set pieces, designed by 
Matt Kinley and inspired by the paintings of Victor 
Hugo, were mostly large, wooden structures that 
glided around the stage to evoke different locations. 
Hanging at the back of the stage was a screen onto 
which different video backdrops were projected, 
so that it looked as if the ensemble members 
were, for example, marching through the Parisian 
streets, even though they were marching in place. 
The orchestra was also stunning; the score for Les 
Mis is technically intricate  especially since the 
musicians have to vigilantly follow the singers  but 
the orchestras execution was flawless.
Even beyond the stunning individual performances 
and the impressive technical details, the theatrical 
power of Les Mis lies in its ensemble. For the 
Finale, the cast members all came together quietly, 
then slowly but surely crescendoed to a stunning 
blend of voices. The gorgeous vocal harmonies 
and instrumentation thundered out from the stage, 
washing over the audience and causing a visceral 
reaction to the music, the sort of reaction that one 
can only experience through the unique power of a 
live performance.
Anna Walsh | Contributing Editor 
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
The love of my life, a.k.a. 
my favorite bartender, 
is gone! No one pours 
beer or mixes gin and 
tonics like her. Sure, our 
relationship consisted of 
exchanging money for 
drinks and the occasional 
small talk, but it meant 
something, dammit! How 
do I go on?
Thanks,
Oh No! Tender Has 
Emigrated, Replacement 
Obviously Cannot Keep 
Satisfied
Dear ON THE ROCKS,
I know its hard, but youre 
going to have to move on. 
There are a lot of other 
great bartenders out there, 
looking for regulars of their 
own. Sure, you may get your 
heart broken again, but youll 
come back stronger. You 
can drink your troubles away 
and meet a new bartender 
all in one go!
But lets say youre not 
ready to move on. You 
stumble home after visiting 
yet another disappointing 
bartender, missing your old 
flame, and thinking about 
finding her. Lucky for you, 
theres the new Facebook 
Graph Search! With this 
handy dandy web feature, 
you can just look up former 
bartenders in Pittsburgh who 
moved to New York recently 
and everyone matching that 
description will come up! 
Then just find her new job 
or hangout, show up, and 
ask for a drink! Why should 
stalking be limited to just exgirlfriends?
Dont actually do this,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
I recently appeared 
on the rap track of an 
up-and-coming local 
musician. Im not really 
familiar with the hiphop scene (Im not really 
a fan of jumping), but Im 
sure I will soon be quite 
famous. What can I do 
to further my burgeoning 
career? Keep in mind I 
have no actual talent or 
knowledge.
Thanks,
Track Has A Tremendous 
Secondary And Requires 
A Perusal
Dear THATS A RAP,
First, congratulations on your 
appearance! Im sure youll 
be the breakout star of an 
incredibly popular album. 
Now that youre famous, 
youre going have to do 
something to stay in the 
limelight. I suggest becoming 
a hype man. All you gotta 
do is keep the crowd excited 
(or hyped up), and in 
return, you get to hang out 
with guys who are actually 
talented.
First, you have to wear 
some ridiculous clothes 
and a ton of bling. Second, 
you should figure out what 
youre supposed to do. 
Basically, whenever the 
lead dude stops to breathe, 
just yell out the last thing 
he said or whatever else 
comes to mind. Pretty soon 
youll be one of the 20 guys 
featured in a Kanye track.
If Flavor Flav can do it, so 
can you,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About finding new bartenders and rap stars
PNC Broadway Across America presented Les 
Misrables at the Benedum Center. 

---------------------------------------------------

4theater
pillbox 01.28.13
Opera has traditionally been perceived as the land of 
fat ladies in Viking helmets, passionate love affairs, and 
duels to the death. Its not a medium that often brings to 
mind farmers in the American Midwest during the 30s.
Last week, the Carnegie Mellon School of Music put on 
a production of Aaron Coplands The Tender Land, an 
American opera about a Great Depression-era family, 
and its broken hopes and future dreams. The opera 
focuses on the con?ict between Laurie Moss, a young 
woman who wants to see the world and be free of her 
overprotective family, and her mother and grandfather, 
who have provided for Laurie over the years and only 
wish to guarantee her a bright and successful future.
At the front and center of the production is the music. 
Copland, who was known later in life as the Dean of 
American Composers, was in?uential in creating a 
distinctly modern, American style of composition. The 
music of The Tender Land, though not as complex 
as some other works, is nonetheless deeply moving. 
The music spans a range of emotions, including hope, 
uneasiness, and playfulness, and at times includes a 
touch of folk sensibility.
The production quality of Friday nights performance 
was very high. The staging was relatively minimalist, 
with fences rising and sinking into the ground like 
hills. Behind it all was a huge backdrop  a vast pool of 
color to mimic the endless Midwestern skies  which 
changed colors in response to the mood of the story.
One of the more interesting aspects of this production 
was that the actors, who were all School of Music 
students, had to play characters of drastically different 
ages. These characters range from an eight-year-old girl 
to a grandfather aged 60 or older. But the performers 
handled their roles well and were very believable in their 
parts.
The stand-out performances of Fridays show were 
junior voice major Francesca Bonadonna as Ma Moss 
and junior psychology and voice double major Chelsea 
Ritenour as Laurie. Both were very sympathetic in 
their roles despite being at odds for the majority of the 
story, and at the end, when they part ways, there was a 
genuine sense of sadness.
[Mas] a very strong character, Bonadonna said on her 
role as Ma Moss. She has a rough relationship with her 
oldest daughter. She tries to be sympathetic but its hard 
for her, because her daughter wants to leave the farm 
and their home. At the end its heartbreaking for her to 
watch her daughter walk away.
The operas only ?aw was that the storyline felt rushed. 
The majority of the opera takes place over the span 
of a single day, and it would have made more sense if 
stretched out over a longer period of time. The leading 
couple literally meet and decide to elope within 24 hours. 
It feels as if the viewer is given a bare skeleton of the 
story without enough details to ?ll it out.
The opera would have been better if it had allowed the 
characters to develop more over time and had shown 
more of the familys backstory and struggles. Still, the 
bare essence of the plot is very strong. Full of promises 
that are made and broken, its a heartfelt tale about 
family, love, and freedom that could have delivered 
spectacularly if it had ?eshed out more.
Overall, The Tender Land is a slightly ?awed but a 
very beautiful and heartfelt opera. The staging was 
beautiful; the cast was charming, talented, and colorful; 
and the opera itself very acutely re?ects the mood of 
the 30s, an era during which much was uncertain and 
unpredictable, but people nonetheless managed to stay 
together and hope for the future.
Bonadonna touched on this sense of hope that resonated 
at the end of the opera: I really like the last song I sing, 
she said. Its about this optimistic view; even though 
[Ma Ross] daughters left, theres still hope left out there; 
shes still got another daughter. Its an introspective 
song; shes going to move on with her life, and her 
daughters going to do what she wants to do.
Xiyu Wang | Junior Staffwriter
Jos Lopez | Photo Staff
Saturday nights cast of Aaron Coplands The Tender Land celebrates Laurie Moss upcoming graduation with dancing and wine on the familys front porch.  
School of Music presents The Tender Land
Aaron Coplands Depression-era opera features charming cast, brilliant staging

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 01.28.135
Paperhouse
On reviewing music
If you have the misfortune of living near me, youve 
probably heard me blasting Radioheads Amnesiac 
over the past couple of days. Earlier this week a friend 
recommended I read a review of the album by John 
Darnielle of the Mountain Goats on his blog, Last Plane to 
Jakarta. After reading the review, I couldnt help but listen 
to the album on repeat.
What I found most striking about his review was its 
presentation. Unlike most, Darnielles review was posted 
in 10 segments released over the course 2001 and 2002, 
with each song considered individually. Furthermore, he 
did not consider Amnesiac in terms of OK Computer or 
Kid A, the bands two most critically acclaimed albums.
I often ?nd myself reading  and occasionally writing  
music reviews that insist on looking at albums from a very 
?xed perspective. These reviews subsequently evaluate 
albums in terms of a bands legacy and aesthetic, as 
opposed to looking at an album for what it is: a selfcontained collection of songs. Darnielles review makes 
a point of showing how this former method obfuscates 
the gravity of an album and can end up portraying 
a masterpiece like Amnesiac as a castaway B-side 
collection.
Even though Darnielles review is over a decade old, it 
remains relevant to the current state of music journalism. 
Much of todays writing is stale, hackneyed, and more 
concerned with legacy than with legitimate journalism. 
Darnielles particular style of in-depth musical analysis is 
not the most conventional model for how music journalism 
should be. However, it models critical, independent 
thought  a trait that all music reviewers should aim to 
re?ect. While the legacy and cultural relevance of a band 
is important in its own right, music journalists should not 
allow these aspects to overshadow their evaluation of an 
albums quality.
Matt Mastricova | Staffwriter
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
Tim Maia  World Psychedelic Classics, Vol. 4
Ben Folds Five  The Sound of the Life of the Mind
Black Moth Super Rainbow  Cobra Juicy
Various Artists  Iron Atrocity Vol. 2
Van She  Idea of Happiness
The Two Man Gentlemen Band Two At A Time
Tame Impala  Lonerism
The Raveonettes  Observator
Nous Non Plus  Le Sexe et la Politique
David Naiditch  Douce Ambiance: Gypsy Jazz Classics
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Toro y Moi grows musically
New album presents a selection of fresh, surprising material
Its hard to break out of a genre that you helped 
de?ne. Perhaps no one knows that better than 
recording artist Chaz Bundick (also known by his 
stage name Toro y Moi), who in his most recent 
album Anything In Return has managed to do just 
that.
As a pioneer of the chillwave genre just a few years 
ago, Bundick became known for swirling sonic 
explorations in his debut album Causers of This. But 
in his new album, he trades the low-?delity samples 
for a clean production style that combines a wide 
range of musical in?uences.
Bundick recently told Pitchfork, The albums 
about me trying to be a better person  and 
this sentiment is tangible throughout the album. 
From the honest lyricism to the array of musical 
in?uences, Bundick is no doubt trying his hardest  
and succeeding.
In recent years, Bundick has become known for 
incorporating many genres into his own pop-focused 
conglomerate of funk, R&B, soul, house, and rock; 
Anything In Return takes that to the next level. 
Here, his combinations feel effortless and natural. 
Listening to the album, theres never a doubt about 
whose music it is, but youll constantly be surprised 
by the sounds Bundick introduces.
The vocals in Anything In Return are the strongest 
of any Toro y Moi album. While his last full-length 
album, Underneath the Pine, features a heavier 
focus on his voice, it seems that Bundick has gained 
enough con?dence in his vocal strength to really pull 
it off in Anything In Return. Lines like, Dont let me 
go / cause I feel weak on the track Rose Quartz 
are more believable than his previous efforts at 
heartfelt lyricism.
A few songs on the 13-track album do fall ?at, 
although it is hard to say exactly why. Perhaps 
its the lyrics, some of which seem to lack any real 
depth. Or it could be the overwhelming mixture of 
in?uences, as it isnt easy to ?nd the right balance of 
sounds. The few ?ops on the album are hardly worth 
noting, however, because on the whole, Bundick 
shows a sophisticated shift from his chillwave roots 
into a more sonically diverse realm. Hes never been 
a great lyricist (Anything In Return is his best effort 
yet), and Id much rather listen to Bundick take 
chances combining sounds than listen to another 
boring indie-pop record.
As the albums opening track title suggests, 
there is perhaps some Harm in Change, but 
Bundicks latest effort shows that there can also 
be signi?cant growth. By introducing many new 
styles into his music, Bundick has not only made a 
highly accessible pop album, but one that old fans 
will certainly ?nd engaging and deeply satisfying. 
Indeed, unlike the apathetic subgenre he helped 
de?ne just a few years ago, its clear Bundick is here 
to stay.
Allison Cosby | Contributing Editor 
 Courtesy of blikeng via Flickr
Toro y Moi combines a variety of musical influences in Anything In Return, his most recent album.

---------------------------------------------------

6literature
pillbox 01.28.13
Son, the ?nal installment in the quartet of novels that 
author Lois Lowry began with the Newbery Awardwinning The Giver, should really be two books. It 
tries to tell two stories. The ?rst story is as beautifully 
executed as one would expect from Lowry, but it is cut 
unsatisfyingly short to make room for the second, which 
is too thin and rushed to make much of an impact.
The ?rst two-thirds of Son follows Claire, a 14-yearold Birthmother from the dystopian community ?rst 
described in The Giver. Birthmothers are assigned by 
community elders from a young age to bear the children 
of the community. After one dif?cult and traumatic 
birth, Claire is decommissioned and sent to work in a 
?sh hatchery. In the bureaucratic snafu that follows, the 
leaders of the community forget to give her the emotionsapping pills that the rest of the community receives. 
They also accidentally reveal to Claire the identity of her 
son: Gabe, the child whose imminent death sets into 
motion the climax of The Giver.
Alone, struggling to come to terms with her 
overwhelming loss and awakening passions in a 
community that neither feels nor understands either, 
Claire comes to a decision. Her son is more important 
than anything else. When Jonas, the protagonist of The 
Giver, steals Gabe from the community to save his life, 
Claire escapes as well, setting out on a journey to ?nd 
him.
Lowry is a mother herself, and one who has lost a 
child, so its not surprising that Claires story is some 
of the best emotional writing in The Giver quartet. The 
narrative positively aches for its protagonist. Claires 
slow transition from confused, heartbroken child to 
capable, determined woman feels as important and 
absorbing as anything that happened to Lowrys other 
protagonists. For 260 pages, the reader lives and dies 
with Claires hope of reuniting with her son.
Thats why its so frustrating when, two-thirds of the 
way through the novel, Lowry largely abandons Claires 
story to focus on Gabe. The moment that Claire ?rst 
lays eyes on her grown son is narrated brie?y, and only 
as a recollection after many years. The moment that 
Claire ?rst speaks to Gabe is similarly rushed, and is not 
even told from her perspective. After a novels worth 
of anticipation, a combined three pages of reunion just 
isnt enough.
Gabes story contributes to the dissatisfaction. Gabe has 
grown up in the utopic Village that provided the setting 
for Messenger. Hes never known pain, fear, or hunger. 
Hes been loved and cared for his entire life. But he is 
also an orphan almost entirely disconnected from his 
past, and he yearns for a sense of real belonging. He has 
decided to leave the Village in search of his history.
Given the space of an entire novel, Gabes story could 
be interesting  but squeezed into the last third of 
Son, it doesnt work. The reader hardly has time to 
learn, let alone care, about Gabes problems before they 
are resolved. As soon as Gabe meets his mother, he 
receives the love and belonging he desires and no longer 
feels any need to search for his past  even though he 
exchanges only two words with Claire. Lowry reduces a 
relationship that is complicated, painful, and ultimately 
deeply rewarding into a few pages of Gabe sitting at the 
unconscious Claires bedside. Neither Gabes story nor 
Claires is well served by the resolution.
The switch in focus from Claire to Gabe also signals 
a switch in tone. While Claires section of the book is 
more or less a realistic take on a personal struggle in 
a dystopian future, Gabes section turns into a kind of 
high-minded allegory about the nature of evil. After 
meeting his mother, Gabe confronts the Trademaster  
a man explicitly stated to be the physical incarnation of 
evil  who forced Claire to make a fatal trade in order to 
meet her son.
Both realism and allegory have a history in The Giver 
quartet. The Giver and Gathering Blue tell slightly 
mystical but essentially grounded stories about hidden 
evil and the sacri?ce of freedom for security. Messenger 
features the Trademaster in the background, as the 
driving force for a more detached allegory about the 
ways that people who have escaped tyranny and 
oppression can, with time and sel?shness, become 
tyrants and oppressors themselves. Son tries to have 
it both ways and fails. After 260 pages of realism, 30 
pages of metaphor  because Gabes ?ght against the 
Trademaster, from the moment he learns of his existence 
to the moment he defeats him, takes only 30 pages  do 
not feel deep or meaningful. They feel sudden, silly, and 
easy.
Thats the real problem with the ending of Son: Its all 
too easy. Gabes emotional entanglement is erased by 
a deathbed visit to a woman hes never met. Claires 
imminent death is easily reversed by the defeat of one 
man. Even this defeat is too easy; Gabe vanquishes the 
physical manifestation of evil by giving him examples 
of a few people who have remained good all their lives. 
Thats it. Thats all it takes to kill evil. Gabe doesnt even 
have to work very hard. The Trademaster offers him a 
few trades, but nothing that Gabe really wants. Hes 
never tempted at all. In order to defeat evil, Gabe has to 
overcome nothing but a wild river and a little bit of fear.
Mostly, though, the metaphor itself is too easy. The world 
of Son is a world full of deep, complex, societal evil. This 
is a world where 14-year-olds are forced to give birth in 
darkness, and are never allowed to know their children. 
This is a world where a father can neglect, abuse, and 
rape his son without repercussion. This is a world where 
communities kill colicky babies and drug the love and 
passion out of their populations  and evil is a man 
whispering in your ear for a trade? Evil can be defeated 
and utopia protected in a few minutes by a boy whos 
never known hardship at all? Is the evil of this world so 
small that it can be vanquished without sacri?ce? No 
metaphor is worth that trade.
Madelyn Glymour | Contributing Editor
Lowry paints unrealistic portrait of evil
Authors newest book Son tells two incomplete stories set in a dystopian society
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 01.28.137
Blogger and entrepreneur Chris Guillebeau made a stop 
in Pittsburgh on his book tour to promote his bestseller, 
The $100 Startup, on Thursday. For those with an 
entrepreneurial spirit and the desire to put ideas into 
action, the event was both inspirational and enjoyable.
Guillebeaus blog, The Art of Non-Conformity, details his 
travels around the world and the people he meets who 
do unconventional yet meaningful work to make a living. 
His most recent book, The $100 Startup, follows a similar 
theme, giving examples of people who have adopted the 
liberating lifestyle of having a career they love, ?nding 
both personal and monetary value in it.
The book tour stop took place at the Thrill Mill, a new 
startup incubator located in East Liberty. A large, open 
space that was recently renovated, the venue was 
conducive to the number of guests who attended the 
talk. As a meeting ground for local entrepreneurs and 
those interested in the startup environment, the Thrill 
Mill succeeded in creating an atmosphere for mingling 
and networking throughout the event.
Guillebeau kept his main talk brief to accommodate the 
audience members who had to stand during the event 
due to insuf?cient seating. Much of his talk was simply 
a summary of The $100 Startup and his life in general. 
While this information can be gathered in greater detail 
in the book and his blog, his delivery made the talk more 
than just a rehashing of material; the talk became a way 
to connect to the audience.
He touched on examples from the book of people who 
had a passion and saw a market demand for their work. 
The examples featured entrepreneurs from all over the 
world at different times in their lives, which resonated 
with his audience of all ages.
After the talk, Guillebeau opened the ?oor to questions. 
While much of his talk focused on the book and its 
themes of reinvention and loving what you do, the 
questions and attempted-answers session  as 
Guillebeau called it  had a livelier atmosphere.
A lot of the questions pertained to Guillebeaus travels 
across the world. Looking back at his mission to visit 
every country before his 35th birthday, he had lot of 
experiences to recount. South Africa is a great place 
for running, according to Guillebeau, yet he was hardpressed to pick one country as his favorite. He revealed 
that Norway was the only country he has yet to visit, and 
he hopes to make that journey this April with a group of 
dedicated fans.
As a writer, traveler, and speaker, Guillebeau reaches out 
to people to inspire and motivate them to pursue their 
own careers and lifestyles. Minor detractions aside, this 
stop on his book tour succeeded in connecting with an 
enthusiastic Pittsburgh audience.
Josh Smith | Editor-in-Chief
Chris Guillebeau emphasizes reinvention
The blogger and entrepreneur gives examples of people whose hearts are in the work
Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter
This is the granddaddy of all cult classics. 
Evaluated purely on ?lm criteria, Rocky Horror 
is a twisted, campy fairy tale  a spectacular 
mess. But watching this thing late at night with 
a horde of inebriated compatriots is occasionally 
transcendent. Be ready to sing along and shout 
at this pop culture touchstone that should never 
be forgotten and should be experienced at least 
once in a lifetime.
The Rocky Horror Picture Show
Thursday, Jan. 31
8 10 12
Beasts of the Southern Wild
Friday, Feb. 1
8 10 12
Beasts was the Sundance baby of 2012. Heading into 
the festival, it wasnt on anyones radar. Afterward, it 
began a rapid climb to national success and critical 
celebration. Beasts falls under that strange heading 
of magic realism, telling the story of a young girl and 
her alcoholic father who are rocked by the devastation 
of a Katrina-like hurricane. Quvenzhan Wallis stars 
as a six-year-old forced into a life of responsibility 
and independence. She delivers a truly astonishing 
performance that was honored by an Oscar nomination.
Anna Karenina
Sunday, Feb. 3
7:30 10 12:30
Taking on a major work of classic literature 
is possibly the most daunting challenge in 
moviemaking. Anna Karenina is based on Leo 
Tolstoys epic novel of the same name and stars 
Keira Knightley as the eponymous main character. 
The ?lm has garnered an unexpected batch of 
award recognition for cinematography, costume 
design, and art direction. The ?rst hour is a 
stunning achievement  every area of artistry ?ring 
on all cylinders. This ?lm is an under-appreciated 
gem of 2012.
dollarmovieMcConomy Auditorium, University Center

As a writer, traveler, and speaker, Guillebeau reaches out to people to 
inspire and motivate them to pursue their own careers and lifestyles.

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 01.28.1398feature
pillbox 01.28.13
Entropy+ is Carnegie Mellons very own campus 
convenience store, according to the Carnegie Mellon 
Dining Services website. And yet, every time I walk in, 
Im surprised by the lack of simple ingredients on the 
shelves. Yes, they have ?ve dozen varieties of chips, 
candy, and bread. But the simple things that dedicated 
bakers and cooks cant live without are sometimes 
inexplicably absent. On a day that you dont feel like 
hiking down to IGA in Oakland or Giant Eagle in Squirrel 
Hill, the absence of basic ingredients can be a real 
buzzkill. 
That being said, Entropy+ isnt without hope. There 
are some things to work with there. Whether youre 
whipping up a romantic dinner for two or planning 
on bringing a sweet treat to a meeting, here are some 
dishes that you can make using ingredients found at 
Entropy+. 
Heres whats cooking at Entropy+
Easy recipes to make using only ingredients from the campus convenience store
Make these delicious breakfast muffins with just five 
ingredients that you can buy at Entropy+. 
                  Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor
by Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor[]
Omelette Casserole 
(Note: This refrigerates overnight and is baked in the morning.)
What to buy: eggs, milk, ham (optional), cheddar cheese, bread
What you need: baking dish, salt, pepper, refrigerator, oven
What to do: Rip four to six slices of bread into pieces, and lay them out on the bottom of the greased pan. 
Sprinkle with half the package of cheddar cheese and add the ham, if youre using it. In a bowl, combine 
?ve eggs and one cup of milk. Add the salt and pepper, then pour the mixture over the bread and cheese. 
Cover and refrigerate overnight. 
The next morning, preheat the oven to 325F. Bake for 45 minutes, then uncover and bake for 15 minutes at 
350F. Sprinkle with remaining cheddar cheese and serve. 
Blueberry Muf?ns
What to buy: pancake mix, sugar, eggs, applesauce, blueberries (or your choice of berry)
What you need: cupcake tin, oven (if you dont have a tin, you can easily use an eight-by-eight-inch baking 
dish)
What to do: Preheat the oven to 400F and grease the tin. Mix the pancake mix with half a cup of sugar in 
one bowl, and mix one egg with two-thirds of a cup of water and a quarter cup of applesauce in another. 
Then, add the wet ingredients to the dry, and fold in the blueberries. Pour the mixture into the tin and bake 
for 12-16 minutes.
Cheerio Delight 
(adapted from busybuthealthy.com)
What to buy: Cheerios, peanut butter, honey, sugar
What you need: pot, stove, water, aluminum foil
What to do: On a stovetop, warm half a cup of peanut butter, half a cup of honey, one-third of a cup of sugar, 
and two tablespoons of water. Allow the mixture to boil for less than a minute, then remove from heat and 
stir in three cups of Cheerios. Spoon onto aluminum foil and allow to set. 
Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Craving some homemade Italian food? How about adapting 
the classic lasagna for an easy-to-make alternative?
Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Breakfast and brunch
Meatless Lasagna
What to buy: choice of noodles, cottage cheese, eggs, parmesan cheese, mozzarella cheese, container 
of Ragu tomato sauce
What you need: pot, stove, baking dish, oven
What to do: Preheat the oven to 350F. Cook the noodles, then drain them and add half of the Ragu. In 
the meantime, mix the cottage cheese with two eggs and set aside. In a baking dish, put (in order) 
a thin layer of sauce, half of the noodles, more sauce, the cheese and egg mixture, the rest of the 
noodles, mozzarella cheese, the rest of the sauce, and mozzarella. Sprinkle with parmesan and bake for 
25-35 minutes or until melted and gooey. 
Tuna Shepherds Pie 
(adapted from food.com)
What to buy: two cans of tuna, frozen peas, carrots, mayonnaise, one box of instant mashed potatoes 
What you need: baking dish, oven
What to do: Preheat the oven to 350F and prepare the mashed potatoes. Set them aside. Flake the 
tuna into a bowl and add the veggies. Add about one-third of a cup of the mayo and mix lightly. Pour 
the mixture into the baking pan and top with the mashed potatoes. Bake for about 35 minutes. 
Cheesy Chicken Skillet 
What to buy: frozen chicken nuggets, noodles, container of Ragu tomato sauce, mozzarella cheese, 
parmesan cheese
What you need: skillet, pot
What to do: Cook the noodles and drain them. In the skillet, warm the chicken nuggets to desired 
temperature, then add the Ragu. When warm, stir in the pasta. Remove from heat after the pasta is 
coated in the sauce, then stir in the mozzarella cheese until its melted. Top with parmesan, then 
serve. 
Dinner
Desserts and delicacies
Fruit Crumble for One (or two, depending on how generous you feel)
What to buy: one package of blueberries, raspberries, or blackberries, butter, brown sugar, instant oatmeal
What you need: oven, baking dish
What to do: Preheat the oven to 350F and grease the baking dish. Mix the berries with a quarter cup of brown 
sugar and pour into the dish. Pour a pack (or two, depending on how much topping you want) of cinnamon-andspice oatmeal on top. Drizzle about a tablespoon of melted butter on top and bake until the topping is golden 
brown (about 25 minutes). 
Cake-Mix Cookies
(adapted from duncanhines.com)
What to buy: one package of cake mix, butter, eggs, M&Ms (optional)
What you need: oven, cookie sheet
What to do: Preheat the oven to 350F. Mix half a cup (one stick) of melted butter and two eggs into the cake mix. 
Add the M&Ms, if youre using them. Drop the dough onto the cookie sheet and bake for 10-12 minutes.
No-Bake Cheesecake 
What to buy: two packages of cream cheese, one package of Nilla wafers, butter, heavy whipping cream, sugar
What you need: baking dish, refrigerator 
What to do: Melt three tablespoons of butter and combine with crushed Nilla wafers. Press into the bottom of the 
pan and set aside. In a bowl, mix the cream cheese, half a cup of cream, and one-third of a cup of sugar. Pour on 
top of the crust and refrigerate for at least an hour.Get your fruity fix with this decadent crumble.
A basic but sparse selection of ingredients can be found at Entropy+. 
                  Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor

---------------------------------------------------

10fashion
pillbox 01.28.13
While not everyone reads The Tartan, those stacks 
of newspapers in The Underground and all over 
campus may still prove useful  though in a way 
you might not expect. Here well explore ways to 
adorn yourself with new school spirit swag in the 
form of newspaper fashion.
A Skirt or Shorts 
What youll need: 
	The Tartan 
	Scissors 
	Clear laminate 
	Assorted sewing supplies (thread, a needle, a 
zipper, etc.)
Choose a pattern of skirt or shorts you want to 
make, then proceed to cut out the paper into the  
shape you desire. I personally cut out pieces of the 
paper and organized them in a collage-like fashion. 
Whichever pattern you choose, laminate the paper 
before sewing anything. If youre trying to sew 
straight paper, it isnt going to work.
A Detachable Collar 
What youll need:
	The Tartan 
	Scissors 
	Clear laminate 
	Measuring tape 
	One clip button set (the kind that comes in two 
parts and clicks when you push them together)
Measure the distance around your neck and 
collarbone. This way, you know how long to make 
your collar. Cut the newspaper (ideally several pages 
thick so it holds its shape) into the shape of your 
desired type of collar, be it a Peter Pan collar or a 
pointy formal dress collar. The collar must be cut 
in such a way that the only seam is at the back. 
Laminate it. Make sure the top can be folded down 
to allow the paper to hold on to your shirt without 
falling off. Attach a clip button set (one half on each 
side) to the back so it is hidden from view.
A Tie
This process is similar to making the detachable 
collar, though if you want that Windsor tie look, 
youll have to go through the trouble of tying 
laminated paper into the desired type of knot. You 
should still clip it in the back. Your tie wont last long 
if you have to keep untying and retying it.
A Shirt or Tank Top
This is practically a no-brainer. Laminate the paper, 
cut it, and sew it. Make original designs if you 
desire, or mix textiles if you want fancy sleeves. 
Whatever you do, avoid wifebeaters or excessive 
cleavage. Nobody wants to see that.
An Airplane
This is the classic airplane. For some of you, it may 
be rewarding watching this article hover around 
someones cranium before diving nose-?rst into his 
salad. You dont need to do anything special to this 
one  unless youre in CIT.
What part of the paper you wear says a lot about 
you. If you feel that you need everything made out of 
the Comics section, go for it. If you favor straight-up 
facts, then bring the News section into your 
wardrobe. Feel free to use any type of newspaper 
you wish. After all, poverty chic is in (those Les 
Mis people were dressed way too well), and so is 
recycling.
Khadijat Yussuf | Junior Staffwriter 
Rework your newspaper
Copies of The Tartan prove versatile clothing material
Pictured above is a skirt sewn from old copies of 
The Tartan.
Khadijat Yussuf | Junior Photographer
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Jan. 9, 1913
The Tartan runs a 12-question sample 
entrance examination titled How 
to get into College taken from the 
University of Wisconsin Daily Cardinal. 
The examination include 11 sports 
questions, like, Draw a baseball 
diamond and name the nine positions. 
The last question is, Who discovered 
America?
50years ago
Jan. 16, 1963
The Panhellenic Council urges women 
to come out to the Meet the Sororities 
Open House. According to rush 
statistics from the fall, one-fifth of the 
women were dropped from recruitment 
because their GPAs were too low. 
The council reminds women that the 
minimum sorority GPA at Carnegie 
Mellon is 1.75.
25years ago
Jan. 26, 1988
A man from Crafton, Pa., stole a printer 
at 2:40 a.m. without the employee on 
duty noticing. The man was later found 
out because of a careless mistake; he 
called Computer Services to ask how 
to clear a very specific error on the 
printer. The police were able to trace 
the call to find the printer and arrest 
the thief.
10years ago
Jan. 27, 2003
The Tartan offers insight on inventive 
ways students make money. A selfproclaimed gerbil babysitter works as 
a research assistant in the psychology 
lab keeping gerbils healthy, clean, and 
well fed. The final interview comes from 
an anonymous middleman who serves 
as the go-between for students buying 
fake IDs on campus.
5years ago
Jan. 28, 2008
An author argues that games like 
Never Have I Ever urge us to not just 
talk about our sexual experiences, 
but brag about them too. She urges 
students to make sure the sexual 
decisions being made are for love (or 
at least lust) and not just for attention 
or perceived social status.
1year ago
Jan. 30, 2012
A Forum article claims that websites 
like Twitter and Facebook have a moral 
obligation to monitor serious content 
for truth value after tragic events, in 
light of the fact that the death of former 
Pennsylvania State University football 
coach Joe Paterno went viral on 
Twitter before he actually died. 

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 01.28.1311
phdcomics.com
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 01.28.13
Crinkled Comics by Juan Fernandez
crinkledcomics.comjjfernan@andrew.cmu.edu
thedoghousediaries.comdoghousediaries@gmail.com
Playing Video Games by Doghouse Diaries

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 01.28.1313
Solutions from Jan. 21, 2013
CrosswordKakuro Easy DifficultySudoku Medium Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Medium Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 01.28.13
1. Farm birds
2. In any way
3. Shoe ties
4. Cease
5. Strike
6. Exclamation of relief
7. Opposite of post8. Breadwinner
9. Linebacker Junior
10. Bearded woman, say
11. Entertainment
12. Yanks foe
13. Conductor ___-Pekka Salonen
18. Tee follower
22. Reveal, in verse
24. Dress often worn by Hindu women
25. Skiers transport
26. Shad delicacy
28. Vassal
29. Assumed attitudes
30. Minimum
31. Answer
33. Like a ___ bricks
34. Form of lyrical poem
35. Growing old
36. ___-Cat
38. Actress Zadora
40. Some nest eggs
41. Take ___ your leader
43. ___ favor
46. Elevs.
47. Series of prayers
49. Luges
51. Hit the slopes
52. Senator Specter
53. Burrowing animals
54. Name on a bomber
56. An apple ___...
57. Brouhahas
58. Pampering place
59. Hole goal
61. Actress Charlotte
62. 1959 Kingston Trio hit
63. Televise
1. Guys partner
4. Silhouette
9. Frighten
14. JFK posting
15. Jewelled crown worn by 
 women
16. Chair designer Charles
17. Words of reciprocity
19. Caribbean island
20. Bed down
21. People and places, e.g.
23. Otherwise
24. Throat problem
27. Quick sharp bark
30. Worker
32. O Sole ___
33. Mosaic pieces
37. Sporting blades
39. Uncovered
40. Encroach
42. Taboos
43. Chief priests
44. Lyric poem
45. Husky
48. Own (up)
50. Trunk
51. Ditto
55. Category
57. Ohio city
58. Swiftness
60. Sticky-tongued critter
64. White-and-black bearlike 
mammal
65. Rate
66. Its a moray
67. Bohemian
68. A long time
69. Code-breaking.org
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Stop waiting for an opportunity that might not come; make 
the most of what you have.
taurus
april 20may 20
Whats done is done.
gemini
may 21june 21
The full moon is a sign; follow through with a decision you 
werent sure about.
cancer
june 22july 22
You will receive a mysterious gift, but you wont know it.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
You will make some decisions this week that will bring you 
closer to fulfilling your dreams.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Remember to look for the pros and cons of everything you 
do.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
None of your options are very pleasing, but picking one is 
the only way you can get out of this situation.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
You arent picking up on the signs that are right in front of 
you.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Get rid of all that stuff you have been keeping around 
because you think you might need it.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
No one is perfect; you should forgive him or her.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Listen. Like, actually listen.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Try to get away with something you normally wouldnt dare 
to do.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 01.28.1315
MONDAY1.28.13
Bring Your Own Bard: Shakespeares Favorites. 
T Caf (2000 Murray Ave.). 7:30 p.m.
Head out to the T Caf for an informal night of 
Shakespearean plays, where actors and non-actors read 
their favorite works.
TUESDAY1.29.13
One Singular Sensation: A Tribute to Marvin 
Hamlisch. Heinz Hall. 7:30 p.m.
Join the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra for a tribute 
concert celebrating the life and work of the late PNC 
Pops conductor Marvin Hamlisch. More information and 
tickets are available at pittsburghsymphony.org.
WEDNESDAY1.30.13
Skibo A Cappella Series: The Originals. Skibo Caf. 
6 p.m.
Carnegie Mellon all-male group The Originals will kick 
off Skibo Cafs new a cappella series. The series is 
organized by the Activities Board.
Improv with Sheet Cake. 
The Improv (166 E. Bridge St., Homestead). 8 p.m.
Head to the Waterfront for a night of improv with Sheet 
Cake, a local improv comedy collective. More information 
and tickets can be found at pittsburgh.improv.com.
THURSDAY1.31.13
Corey Smith. Altar Bar. 6:30 p.m.
Georgia-based country rock singer and guitarist Corey 
Smith will perform at the Altar Bar. Guitarist Joe Robinson 
will open the concert. More information and tickets are 
available at thealtarbar.com.
Grace Potter and the Nocturnals. Stage AE. 7 p.m.
American rock band Grace Potter and the Nocturnals will 
perform at Stage AE. More information and tickets are 
available at promowestlive.com.
FRIDAY2.1.13
Cured! Remedy (5121 Butler St.). 10 p.m.
Remedy will host a deep house, disco, and funk night 
featuring DJ Fire?y (WRCT/Cured), Jarrett Tebbets 
(Cured), and special guest DJ Gusto (WRCT/DETOUR). 
The event is for ages 21 and up and costs $3 at the door.
SATURDAY2.2.13
AB Underground presents Anna Vogelzang.
The Underground. 7 p.m.
Carnegie Mellon alumna and folk-pop singer/
songwriter Anna Vogelzang (CFA 07) will perform at The 
Underground.
ICCA Great Lakes Quarter?nal. 
McConomy Auditorium. 8 p.m.
This year, Carnegie Mellon will host the regional 
quarter?nal of the International Championship of 
Collegiate A Cappella. The performance will feature eight 
qualifying a cappella groups, including Carnegie Mellon 
groups Counterpoint and The Originals. Student tickets 
are $12.
Arlo Aldo. brillobox. 10 p.m.
Pittsburgh-based alternative folk band Arlo Aldo will 
perform at brillobox to celebrate the release of its new 
album Zelie. Emily Rodgers Band and Sleep Experiments 
will also perform. All brillobox events are for ages 21 and 
up.
ONGOING
Cartoon Nihilism. 707 Penn Gallery. Through Feb. 17.
Cartoonist Craig Freeman presents new works that 
explore themes of nihilism, depression, and suicide. The 
gallery is open Wednesday through Sunday.
Inventing the Modern World: Decorative Arts at the 
Worlds Fairs, 18511939. The Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Feb. 24.
This exhibit features works ranging from jewelry to 
furniture that showcase changing tastes in aesthetics and 
design within the span of nearly nine decades.
Power Pixels. Wood Street Galleries. Through April 7.
The Wood Street Galleries is hosting an exhibit by visual 
artist Miguel Chevalier that features two self-generative 
video installations. The exhibit also includes the world 
premiere of Chevaliers latest work, Pixels Wave. 
More information and gallery hours are available at 
woodstreetgalleries.org.
Feminist and...The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is a 
multivocal, multigenerational, and multicultural movement, 
not a single-issue set of political beliefs. The exhibit was 
guest-curated by Hilary Robinson (a former professor of 
art theory and criticism at Carnegie Mellon).
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Contributing Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
SLEEP RESEARCH STUDY at the University of 
Pittsburgh for healthy adults ages 18  30 with 
good sleep. Compensation provided. Call 412-
246-6862 or visit www.veteranssleeppitt.edu 
for more information.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 01.28.13
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
The University Lecture Series sponsored a screening and discussion 
of the ?lm To Be Heard with  director and producer Edwin Martinez 
on Friday in McConomy Auditorium. The ?lm focuses on three best 
friends in high school who make a pact to support each other through 
their struggles through life, love, and friendship. 
?lm screening.
