PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Retrospective on curator Astria Suparak  B8
FORUM
Data Privacy Day needs more publicity  A6Students make creative apps at TartanHacks  A4
SCITECH
thetartan.org
@thetartan
February 3, 2014
Volume 108, Issue 16
New direction for Miller Gallery after curator Suparak dismissed
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
Recently, Carnegie Mellon 
announced a series of impending changes for the on-campus 
Miller Gallery. Over winter 
break, the College of Fine Arts 
announced that the Miller 
Gallery will take on a more 
Carnegie Mellon-centric approach, exhibiting art across 
arts disciplines at the university, according to a statement 
from the of?ce of the College 
of Fine Arts. 
When the changes to 
the Miller Gallery were announced, it was also announced that curator Astria 
Suparak would be dismissed 
after six years at the Miller 
Gallery. The university did not 
comment on the reason for Suparaks dismissal.
In a letter sent to her colleagues after her dismissal, 
Astria wrote that during her 
time as curator she sought to 
create a coherent, socially-engaged program of exhibition, 
one which would establish 
the Miller Gallery as distinct 
among the other outstanding 
arts organizations in Pittsburgh.
The Miller Gallery was 
founded by Regina Gouge 
Miller in 2000 and supports 
experimentation that expands 
the notions of art and culture, 
providing a forum for engaged 
conversations about creativity 
and innovation. The gallery 
produces exhibitions, projects, 
events, and publications with 
a focus on social issues, and is 
free and open to the public, 
according to the mission statement on its website.
Suparak oversaw 26 exhibitions and 98 public events. 
She wrote that Drawing 
on our position as a gallery 
within a research university, 
we strived to present thoughtprovoking, interdisciplinary 
exhibitions and programming 
that expand the notions of art 
and culture, creating an open, 
pedagogical space where students, faculty, and the wider 
public could interact, share 
experiences, converse, and 
learn.
There have been mixed reactions to the changes to the 
Miller Gallery. Elaine King, 
professor of the history of art 
and theory, and museum studies in the College of Fine Arts, 
says that the Miller Gallery 
is undergoing a transition 
period.
King said in an interview 
that the news came as a shock 
to many. No one knew anything until we got a memo  
an email  everybody was 
surprised.... Perhaps people 
are responding so dramatically because it was so abrupt, so 
sudden, King said. 
King said that the Miller 
Gallery had a focus too narrow 
for Carnegie Mellons diverse 
demographic. People felt that 
all the shows were under a singular, particular ideology that 
could be summed up as social 
critique. 
King felt that it is dif?cult 
to say whether the changes to 
the Miller Gallery will have a 
positive or negative effect on 
Carnegie Mellon and the gallerys role within the university. I would give the bene?t 
of the doubt, she said. I dont 
see change as necessarily negative; I see it as a time to reevaluate.
Sylvia Rhor, an associate 
professor of art and art history at Carlow University, disagreed that the exhibitions 
that Suparak curated and 
brought to the Miller Gallery 
were narrow in scope. 
I think theres a great diversity of content, even of 
strategy. She really worked 
quite hard to get a lot of programming. I was impressed 
with the breadth, really, rather than the narrow scope, 
Rhor said.
Rhor, who used to bring 
her students to the Miller Gallery, thinks that Suparaks dismissal was a mistake on the 
part of Carnegie Mellon. I 
think she was exceptional; she 
put the Miller Gallery on the 
See GALLERY, A3
Mindfulness Room opens in West Wing
SNEHA KANNOTH
Junior Staffwriter
Students carrying various 
green, leafy plants were seen 
crossing campus following the 
grand opening of the Mindfulness Room in West Wing last 
Thursday.
The Mindfulness Room 
features a wall waterfall, bean 
bags, yoga mats, an inspiration whiteboard, and a plant 
wall. The project was spearheaded by sophomore civil 
and environmental engineering major Angela Ng through 
the organization Project 
Smile.
Project Smile is devoted 
to increasing smiles around 
campus and mitigating Carnegie Mellons stress culture. 
Project Smile is a happiness 
club on campus that aims to 
alleviate the stress culture 
and make people smile using 
the power of random acts of 
kindness and other events, 
Ng said.
The split design of the 
room is meant to accommodate both those who want to 
relax and those who want to 
meditate. 
The room is split by a 
plant wall, a wooden structure with plants interspersed 
throughout.
Ng hoped to create the 
room herself rather than  buy 
products. Most of the items 
in the room were handmade, 
including the wooden structures, paintings, small fence, 
and decorative butter?ies.
Additionally, the books 
featured in the Mindfulness 
Room are some of the campus 
faculty and student bodys favorites, and the testimonial 
letters on display are written 
by students who speak about 
how they overcame Carnegie 
Mellons stress culture.
The Mindfulness Room 
is designed around an Earth 
and nature theme to resemble 
Flagstaff Hill during the summertime. During the winter, 
students just want to stay 
inside and work all day, resulting in maximum stress, according to Ng.
Ng said that she designed 
the Mindfulness Room to resemble the sunshine, spring, 
and outside with its yellow 
painted walls and hanging 
plants.
The idea for a Mindfulness 
Room and Project Smile began when Ng was unable to 
cope with the stress presented 
to her during her ?rst semester at Carnegie Mellon, as she 
felt as though she was studying 15 hours a day and not doing well in school.
I never [wanted] to see 
anyone as panicked or frightened as I was, Ng said.
Project Smile grew from 
midnight runs during which 
members of the club would 
distribute free candy and 
cookies, as well as create motivational posters. Ng views 
Project Smile not as the ultimate goal, but rather as a stepping stone in the long journey of eradicating the stress 
culture and making a simple 
smile more commonplace.
Last spring, Ng wrote a 
proposal of the grant to Gina 
Casalegno, dean of student 
affairs, to use the Enhancing 
Campus Culture Fund  a 
fund offered to a project that 
would improve the stress culture at Carnegie Mellon  to 
create the Mindfulness Room.
Getting the grant for this 
project represents the schools 
love and care for its students 
that they recognized all of the 
stress culture at this school 
and they are honestly trying 
to ?x it, Ng said.
Ng wanted the Mindfulness Room to be a place where 
students could be inspired 
and where you can just be 
you and not feel the stress of 
the world.
Ng said that it is necessary 
for everyone to have that one 
little spot of calm, especially in 
an environment where stress 
permeates the atmosphere. 
It is necessary to take a step 
back and relax, she said.
Students have responded 
positively to the opening of 
the Mindfulness Room.
Arley Schenker, sophomore cognitive science major, 
said, This is a great idea, it 
really can make a difference.
Eric Parigoris, sophomore 
mechanical engineering and 
biomedical engineering double major, agreed. [You] ?-
nally [have] some place to be 
in peace with yourself.
Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor
The Miller Gallery, housed in the Purnell Center for the Arts, will begin to focus more on the works of Carnegie Mellon artists after the university dismissed Astria Suparak, who had been curator of the Miller Gallery since 2008.
Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor
The Mindfulness Room is full of amenities to help students relax, including yoga mats and greenery. 
Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor
The Mindfulness Room includes comfortable chairs for stressed students. 
Shapiro lectures on counterterrorism
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
Princeton University assistant professor of politics and 
international affairs Jacob 
Shapiro explored the way in 
which studying subnational 
variance in con?ict provides 
insight in his lecture entitled 
Explaining Local Intensity 
in Intrastate Con?ict this 
Thursday.
Shapiros lecture, which 
was sponsored by the Center 
for International Relations 
and Politics (CIRP), focused 
primarily on the way in which 
civilian decisions and cell 
phone use affects the governments role in targeting violence spurred by insurgency. 
According to the mission 
statement on their website, 
the CIRP addresses policy 
issues through social scienti?c and interdisciplinary 
lenses, focusing on ?ve areas, including globalization, 
grand strategy, and facilitating research into these areas.
Counterinsurgency describes the political or 
military strategy that takes 
action to prevent the insurgency tactics of rebels or 
revolutionaries.
Shapiro argued that information is critical in formulating counterinsurgency tactics 
and for culling insurgency 
theories.
 He broke his argument 
down by exploring the relationship between the players 
in counterinsurgency.
Theres a three-sided 
game going on between the 
government, rebels, and the 
civilian population that is 
affected by economic and 
political development, Shapiro said. The government 
and the rebels ?ght each 
other, but there is also a 
third actor involved through 
the civil population, or 
noncombatants.
Although the government is dominant militarily, 
noncombatants know information and have the choice to 
share it or not, he continued.
Even though civilians 
seem to be an uninvolved 
player in terms of counterinsurgency, Shapiro asserted 
that they both pay taxes to 
the rebels and provide information through tips to the 
government.
Using his research and 
statistics, Shapiro showed 
that there was a negative correlation between unemployment and violence. In places 
with higher unemployment, 
there was less violence.
You pay people less in 
times and places when combat is more intense, so one 
possibility is this: When the 
economy is bad, there is 
less violence, Shapiro said. 
What we think is happening 
is that when the economy is 
bad, it becomes easier for the 
government to buy information.
Shapiros research also 
showed a correlation between development and 
spending; places that received more governmental 
spending saw more violence.
Why does it look like 
CERP spending made things 
worse? The people making 
decisions on spending had 
an idea about where the violence would be bad, so they 
put more money into those 
places, Shapiro said. 
CERP, or Commanders 
Emergency Response Program, provided money that 
was used during the Iraq War 
and War in Afghanistan to rebuild and bene?t Afghan and 
Iraqi citizens.
Just because, statistically, places that receive welfare 
have high poverty rates, that 
does not mean causation  
the welfare is not causing the 
poverty, he continued.
Shapiro noted that locations that received more 
small-scale spending, in fact, 
experienced a reduction of 
violence.
Insurgents, Shapiro argued, pay a price for harming 
civilians. 
Theres a causal effect. 
Essentially, the rebels face 
an information-sharing constraint, as some community 
members share information with the government if 
the rebels impose too many 
See LECTURE, A3

---------------------------------------------------

Daniel S. Nagin was recently named a 2014 fellow 
for the American Academy of 
Political and Social Science 
(AAPSS) for his use of statistical methods to track certain 
behaviors. Nagin (HNZ, 76), 
professor of public policy 
and statistics and associate 
dean of faculty at the Heinz 
School, speci?cally analyzes 
criminal and violent behavior 
through his methods.
Nagin has developed the 
statistical methodology of 
group-based trajectory modeling. This methodology 
changes the way that people 
can track learning and development, and determined that 
criminal and violent behavior 
stems from ones early experiences. His work is important for stressing the need 
to stop these behaviors from 
developing when a person is 
young.
Nagin is one of only seven 
fellows elected by the AAPSS 
in 2014.
Were very pleased that 
each of these extraordinarily accomplished individuals will join the academy this year, said Princeton 
University sociologist and 
president of AAPSS Douglas 
Massey in a university press 
release. Each has made essential contributions to our 
understanding of how American society functions and 
whether our public policies 
act in the common good.
The AAPSS will honor Nagin and the six other elected 
fellows in Washington, D.C. 
on May 8.
A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  February 3, 2014
Corrections: 
Last weeks feature photo caption and headline were 
incorrect, referencing the Jan. 16, 2012 Martin Luther 
King, Jr. Day events from two years ago. 
The feature photos on A2 of the Jan. 27 issue were of a 
new initiative for the childrens programming event entitled the Josh & Gab Show, which is an anti-bullying 
musical comedy show for kids. 
NEWS IN BRIEFInternship Showcase held in Rangos Hall
WEATHER
Vehicle Incident
Jan. 25, 2014
University Police assisted 
the Pittsburgh Police at the intersection of Euclid and Centre 
avenues, after a sedan crashed 
into the back of a Carnegie 
Mellon escort/shuttle bus. No 
one was hurt during the accident. The sedan was towed 
from the scene. The Carnegie 
Mellon bus was not damaged 
during the accident.
Assisting an Outside 
Agency/Disorderly 
Conduct 
Jan. 25, 2014
University Police responded to a Beeler Street address, 
along with the Pittsburgh 
Police. The Pittsburgh Police 
cited two Carnegie Mellon 
students for disorderly conduct while on scene. The party 
dispersed upon police request. 
Underage Drinking 
Jan. 25, 2014
Two students were cited 
for underage drinking, after 
University Police responded 
to the request of a resident 
assistant in Morewood Gardens. Of?cers disposed of the 
alcohol on scene and ensured 
that the party dispersed.
Odor of Natural Gas
Jan. 26, 2014
University Police and the 
Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire 
were summoned to the Residence on Fifth in reference 
to an odor of natural gas. Of?cers and ?re personnel were 
unsuccessful in detecting any 
leaks or con?rming that there 
was natural gas inside of the 
building. Of?cers determined 
that the odor was likely from 
the construction taking place 
at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and Neville Street.
Theft of Painting/Of?ce 
Supplies  
Jan. 26, 2014
A painting valued at $500 
was unlawfully taken from 
a ?rst-?oor room of Roberts 
Hall. The painting was believed to be taken between 
Jan. 24Jan. 27. It was later 
reported that over winter 
break, various of?ce supplies, 
including paper and toner for 
printers, were also unlawfully 
taken from the same area. 
University Police are investigating both incidents.
Noise Complaint
Jan. 26, 2014
University Police were 
summoned to the basement 
level of the University Center 
in reference to a sit-in protest 
that was taking place outside 
of a staff members of?ce. University Police and student life 
representatives responded to 
the area and spoke to the individuals participating in the 
protest. An agreement was 
made among all parties so 
that the students were able to 
express themselves without 
disrupting daily activity.
Theft of Wallet 
Jan. 26, 2014
A student reported that his 
wallet was stolen from a third?oor study lounge in Resnik 
House. The student stated 
that he left his wallet unattended in the lounge, from 
10:30 a.m. until 11:15 a.m. 
The University Police are investigating this incident.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Composer Maria Schneider won three Grammy 
Awards on Jan. 26 for her album Winter Morning Walks, 
inspired by a book of a similar 
name published by the Carnegie Mellon University Press.
The albums songs are 
based on poems by former 
U.S. Poet Laureate Ted Kooser in his book Winter Morning Walks: One Hundred Postcards to Jim Harrison. The 
book, published in 2001, is 
a result of the authors battle 
with cancer and accompanying treatment.
Schneiders album took 
home three awards for 
Best Contemporary Classical Composition, Best 
Classical Vocal Solo, and 
Best Engineered Album, 
Classical.
American soprano Dawn 
Upshaw performed with the 
Australia Chamber Orchestra and Saint Paul Chamber 
Orchestra to make Winter 
Morning Walks possible. Jazz 
musicians Jay Anderson, 
Frank Kimbrough, and Scott 
Robinson also performed in 
the album.
Theres nothing to explain about the music, except 
to say it was very hard to pick 
which poems from Ted Koosers Winter Morning Walks 
I would choose, Schneider 
wrote on her website.
Although the poems that 
the songs are based on were 
originally titled with dates, 
Schneider chose different titles because the order of the 
songs on the album does not 
correspond with the order of 
the poems in the book, according to her website.
Ted Kooser is a poet of 
great acclaim, and we at the 
Press are pleased that Maria 
Schneider has taken Teds 
cycle of poems and extended 
its quality beyond the realm 
of poetry, said professor of 
English and director of the 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Press Gerald P. Costanzo, according to a university press 
release.
Winter Morning Walks 
contains the nine-part Winter Morning Walks and the 
accompanying ?ve-part Carlos Drummonde de Andrade 
Stories.
Grammy-winning album inspired by Carnegie Mellon University Press book
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
33 / 17
SATURDAY
High / Low
34 / 27
SUNDAY
High / Low
31 / 21
TUESDAY
High / Low
39 / 32
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
35 / 14
THURSDAY
High / Low
26 / 10
Compiled by
BRADEN KELNER
Maryyann Landlord/Comics Editor
Thirty students set up tables in Rangos Hall on Thursday to talk about internships they had this past summer. Students completed internships at large companies like 
Nike and Apple, as well as many smaller companies and startup companies. The event was geared toward students trying to obtain an internship for the summer. 
Heinz professor honored for work related to criminal and anti-social behavior
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
The Senate Internal Development Committee reported that they have created 
a Google Calendar of Senate 
events that members can use.
The Business Affairs committee announced that it is  
making shirts for the Senate 
body.
Coordinator of student activities Tim Leonard gave a 
presentation to Senate about 
the location of Spring Carnival after the new Tepper 
building breaks ground in 
the Morewood parking lot.
According to Leonard, 
Booth will now be held in the 
College of Fine Arts parking 
lot, which has enough room 
for all of the current booth 
organizations. The Carnival 
rides will be on the Mall and 
College of Fine Arts Lawn, 
and the main tent will be on 
the College of Fine Arts Lawn.
The Of?ce of Student Activities considered many different locations before making 
a decision, including Gesling 
Stadium, Morewood Avenue, 
and Margaret Morrison Street.
Special Allocation:BXAPresentation: Of?ce of Student ActivitiesCommittee ReportsPresentation: Anything But Coke
Sophomore directing major John Moriarty gave a presentation to Senate about a 
campaign he started to stop 
LGBTQ hate crimes in Russia, 
Anything But Coke.
The campaign aims to put 
pressure on Coca-Cola, a major 
sponsor of the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics, by boycotting its 
products. Moriarty came to 
Senate to request that Senate 
pass a directive to ban all CocaCola products from Entropy+. 
Senate passed the vote, recommending that Carnegie Mellon 
ban all Coca-Cola products on 
campus for the duration of the 
Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics.
The BXA program was allocated $1,000 to build a new 
lounge space. Representatives 
from the BXA program argued 
that it was the only academic 
program without some kind 
of lounge space, that all they 
have is the BXA house between 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
Hall and Donner House. The 
new lounge area will be open 
to the public and will display 
the work of BXA students.

---------------------------------------------------

externalities, he said.
These externalities include the level of collateral damage given the governments use of military 
force, the level of government service provision, local political views, and the 
rebels ability to retaliate 
against collaborators.
This seems kind of 
abstract, but its exactly how 
Afghanistan and al-Qaeda 
talked about it, Shapiro said. 
They try to set that optimal 
level of violence in asking 
themselves how aggressively 
they can control the territory 
before the people get pissed 
off and start sharing information with the government.
Shapiro noted that its 
dif?cult to measure that information ?ow to the government. Human intelligence 
is one of the most carefully 
guarded secrets the government has.
Researchers have been 
able to collect data by testing 
the use of cell phones in Iraq. 
Its a lot easier to pick up 
your cell phone and text others, Shapiro said. Theres 
a reduction in rebel ability 
to sanction informers, an increase in signal intelligence 
to coalition forces and an increase in rebels ability to produce violence.
Counterinsurgency tactics have expanded to utilize 
tip cards, which helped the 
U.S. and Iraqi governments 
to receive information more 
easily.
There was a 10 percent 
reduction of violence in a 
month after an increase in 
cell phone tower buildings.
Sophomore international 
relations and politics major 
Ariel Lee said, I thought 
Shapiros talk was really informative. At times, it was a 
bit dif?cult to understand his 
research and all its implications, but I thought it was interesting how he found a connection between cell phone 
towers and the level of violence in a given area because 
I would have never related 
the two together.
Shapiro concluded by noting the importance of understanding the variance in intrastate violence. 
He also pointed out how 
the research and information 
provided has a direct impact 
on policies.
Dana Kim, a sophomore 
international relations and 
politics major, said in an 
email to The Tartan, Dr. Jacob Shapiros talk provided 
insight into the world of terrorism and insurgency and 
yields interesting statistics. 
Personally, I think the talk 
made me realize that what 
we see in the media is oftentimes misleading as to what 
is actually going on in states 
that are at war.
Shapiro co-directs the 
Empirical Studies of Con?ict 
Project, which analyzes politically-motivated violence. 
His research focuses on political violence, economic 
and political development in 
con?ict zones, and security 
policy, according to a university press release. 
Shapiro also authored the 
book The Terrorists Dilemma: Managing Violent Covert 
Organizations.
February 3, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Interdisciplinary panel replaces curator Suparak of Miller Gallery 
map. I would not have gone 
 I didnt go  before her 
shows really started to draw 
attention, national attention. 
It was actually excellent, for 
me  for promoting critical 
thinking in class.
Her curatorial strategy is 
the most cutting edge in the 
city, Rhor continued. Its really an unconscionable error. 
I think its actually something 
that frankly doesnt just affect 
CMU but the city as a whole.
Rhor said that she will 
have a dif?cult time bringing 
her students to the Miller Gallery without Suparak as curator. Before Suparak came to 
Carnegie Mellon, she was curator of The Warehouse Gallery at Syracuse University. 
Suparak was also dismissed 
from the Warehouse Gallery 
in 2007, after which she came 
to Carnegie Mellon.
According to an Oct. 
27, 2007 column for 
syracuse.com, university of?cials did not comment on 
Suparaks dismissal and in 
that void, angry members of 
the arts community contend 
that Suparak was let go for 
reasons from censorship to 
institutional jealousy at her 
success.
A 2008 article in the Pittsburgh City Paper, written 
when Suparak was hired at 
Carnegie Mellon, said that 
Suparak became a cause celebre when she was ?red by 
Syracuse University.
Suparak herself wrote in a 
farewell post on Dec. 6, 2007 
that I recognize that my situation has touched upon critical issues of creative and academic freedom, institutional 
transparency, effective civic 
engagement, and the support for emerging visions and 
artists.
Hyla Willis (CFA 99), an 
associate professor of media 
arts at Robert Morris University, has worked closely with 
Suparak in the past and thinks 
that Suparak was a valuable 
asset to the city of Pittsburgh.
Carnegie Mellon is a university in the context of Pittsburgh, so right next door you 
have this fantastic Carnegie 
Museum of Art, you have the 
Warhol Museum, you have 
the Frick Museum, you have 
Phipps [Conservatory], all 
these resources that are just 
at the ?ngertips of students, 
Willis said. But there are very 
few places in town where students can look at whats possible to do with curating. It 
really feels to me like Astria 
?lled a niche that was missing 
in Pittsburgh.
Sophomore communication design major Joe Mallonee, an employee of the 
Miller Gallery, said that he 
appreciated the work that 
Suparak put into the Miller Gallery, and is not sure 
where these changes leaves 
the gallery.
I guess I would say it was 
a shock. I dont really know 
if it was a mistake or not. I 
know that a lot of the other 
students working there think 
it was a disappointment for 
sure, Mallonee said. As far 
as her personal work ethic 
goes, I think it mightve been 
a mistake.
According to the statement 
from the College of Fine Arts 
Deans Of?ce, future programming at the Miller Gallery will be determined by 
an interdisciplinary panel. A 
faculty leadership committee, chaired by the Associate 
Dean for Interdisciplinary Initiatives and representing the 
?ve CFA schools of Art, Architecture, Design, Music and 
Drama, and other relevant academic units, will determine 
programming, the statement 
says.
The statement says that 
This new direction for Miller 
Gallery provides opportunities for fresh and diverse perspectives articulated through 
the prism of varied creative 
and research interests. This 
is indicative of Carnegie Mellons ability to provide a rich, 
re?ective hybrid experience 
for our students and to present new ideas and creative 
propositions to a general audience.
Alien She, co-curated by 
Suparak and Ceci Moss, will 
remain at the gallery until 
Feb. 16, when it will go on national tour.
Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor
The Miller Gallery is currently displaying Alien She, a collection cocurated by Suparak and Ceci Moss. 
Johnstone releases book on history of Pittsburghese
GALLERY, from A1
LECTURE, from A1
Courtesy  of Barbara Johnstone
After 12 years of research, Barbara Johnstone recently released her book Speaking Pittsburghese about the 
speech patterns of Pittsburgh natives.
Henry Ford Institute partners with CMU 
BRENT HEARD
Contributing Editor
Carnegie Mellons Quality of Life Technology Center 
(QoLT Center) has now entered into a partnership with 
the Henry Ford Innovation 
Institute to improve health 
care technologies. According 
to the Henry Ford Innovation 
Institutes website, the partnership will develop new 
digital health technologies to 
improve patient care, with an 
emphasis on the care patients 
receive after being discharged 
from hospitals.
The QoLT Center is a research center funded by the 
National Science Foundation 
and jointly run by Carnegie 
Mellon and the University of 
Pittsburgh that focuses on developing technologies to assist 
the elderly and individuals 
with disabilities in living more 
independent lives. 
According to their websites description, The QoLT 
Center addresses the needs 
and activities of everyday living by prototyping personal 
assistive robots, cognitive and 
behavioral coaches, human 
awareness, and driver assistance technologies.
Mark Coticchia, the Henry 
Ford Health Systems vice 
president and chief innovation of?cer, stated in a press 
release on the Henry Ford 
Innovation Institutes website this relationship with 
the Quality of Life Technology Center is a cornerstone 
of Henry Fords digital health 
strategy, and will provide a 
new set of talent, resources, 
and ideas to craft solutions 
for pressing health care problems. The release added that 
the partnership will speci?cally focus on the use of robotics 
for health support systems in 
serving people in their everyday lives and in the conduct 
of coaching in a rehabilitation 
setting.
Dan Siewiorek , director of 
the QoLT Center, was directly 
involved in the formation of 
this partnership. Siewiorek 
said that the partnership came 
to be after the centers were 
connected through Coticchia, 
the former director of technology transfer at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Siewiorek said the QoLT 
Center invited the Ford Institute to two summits they were 
hosting, and they liked what 
they saw and joined.
Siewiorek described that 
the initial focus [of this 
partnership is] on discharging people from the hospital. 
Its more dif?cult than youd 
imagine and involves dozens 
of steps.
Often families and patients are given written instructions for continued care 
at home, he continued, adding that these instructions are 
dif?cult for elderly patients 
and those who suffer from 
dementia.
 Additionally, hospitals 
are motivated to have their 
patients better follow prescribed directions, as Medicare now penalizes them if a 
patient is readmitted within 
30 days with the same medical condition.
Siewiorek summarized the 
goal as having people understand what their disease is and 
how to take care of it, previewing their solution, saying, 
I could easily see a cell phone 
app where the discharged person is told what meds and exercise they need and provides 
appropriate reminders and 
sets goals, he said.
In a press release, executive director and co-founder 
of the QoLT Center Jim Osborn said Henry Ford is one 
of the nations most progressive health systems, adding, 
Their administration and clinicians recognize the imperative and the opportunity to 
improve health care ef?ciency 
and quality through technology. Together we will pioneer 
solutions that could bene?t 
thousands of people.
Siewiorek described some 
of the projects that the QoLT 
is currently developing in addition to their work with the 
Henry Ford Innovation Institute, including a product containing forwardand backward-facing cameras which 
can be used for patients with 
dementia and memory loss. 
If a person with dementia is 
preparing a meal, the camera 
is looking and can identify the 
object, he said, adding that 
the technology also monitored 
so that, caregivers can videotape interaction and share 
with any doctor any troubling 
behaviors.
The product is in ?eld testing with 10 pairs, and there 
is a spin-off company also 
exploring its application in 
sports.
The QoLT Center has also 
developed projects originally created as part of senior undergraduate engineering capstone courses. One, 
called the Health Kiosk, is 
designed for senior citizens 
who live in high-rise apartment buildings and have dif?culty making routine doctor 
appointments. Doctors can 
specify measurements to be 
collected from the kiosk, such 
as blood pressure readings, 
and collect them remotely.
Another project developed 
from these capstone courses is 
the Seating Couch, designed 
for people in power wheelchairs who have suffered 
spinal cord injuries. Using a 
smartphone application and 
chair sensors, it can remind 
patients to adjust their seating 
positions at preprogrammed 
intervals to avoid ulcers, and 
can suggest adjusting ones 
position when the chair is on 
an incline, or subject to other 
changes in position.
Kyun Ming Lee/Junior Artist
Shapiro talks on intrastate violence
ALVIN MATHEW
Staffwriter
Pittsburghese, an American-English dialect unique to 
the Steel City, has been immortalized in the book Speaking Pittsburghese, recently 
published by Carnegie Mellon 
professor of English and linguistics Barbara Johnstone.
Becoming an expert on 
Pittsburghese has been a signi?cant undertaking for Johnstone, who has been working 
on the book for 12 years.
She started ?eld work over 
a decade ago, and by her account, Ive had interviews 
with over 200 Pittsburghers to 
get how people talked here. 
Johnstone has written a 
number of articles on the topic already.
When asked to explain the 
motivation behind her work, 
Johnstone said, [I like to] 
piece together the story of the 
dialect and Pittsburgh speech. 
Why do people buy these 
mugs, these shirts?
Johnstone attributes the 
different ways of speaking 
English in the U.S. to Americans diverse roots. People 
in different areas came from 
different areas of Europe, 
she said (Pittsburghs early 
European settlers came from 
England and Scotland).
Pittsburghese is based on a 
western Pennsylvania dialect, 
but is not just a term to describe the dialect of Pittsburghers. Theres a difference 
between how people here 
talk and Pittsburghese, Johnstone said.
The term, ?rst printed in 
1967, emerged after people 
thought about what it meant 
to speak like a local. 
The dialect was commonly embraced after World 
War II, when steel workers 
and labor unions not only 
made very good wages, but 
were also thought of as very 
courageous, she said. Even 
well-educated Pittsburghers, 
like politicians, embraced the 
dialect.
Around the 1980s, the 
steel production industry collapsed in Pittsburgh, causing 
a major economic upheaval 
for Pittsburghers, Johnstone 
complained.
People who had identi?ed 
with the steel industry in the 
area had dif?culty doing so 
after the collapse. The bottom just got pulled out from 
under them, Johnstone said. 
People would then start 
to identify with the Steelers and connect with other 
Pittsburghers. 
The population grew more 
interested in cultural elements that reminded them of 
the past; language was one of 
them.
Multiple opinions exist regarding Pittsburghese. Some 
see it as raw, uneducated, and 
ugly. But others think its a 
cool, hip, gritty thing, Johnstone said.
Johnstones work keeps 
her busy, but she enjoys it. 
Peoples speech patterns 
are still changing, she noted. But that interest is even 
stronger. I enjoy piecing this 
story together. Her spare 
time is often spent professional eavesdropping, she 
joked.
Pittsburgheses popularity 
is highlighted by the popularity of Johnstones book. 
According to Johnstone, 
the public library bought 
20 copies, and patrons have 
checked them all out.
First-year economics and 
mathematics major Benjamin 
Jang said, I think its certainly unique to Pittsburgh, 
and wherever you are, someones going to have their own 
spin on a language. And its 
nice, here at Carnegie Mellon, to hear it and realize that 
were in Pittsburgh, a unique 
city.

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  February 3, 2014
TartanHacks embodies creativity of CMU students
JOSH SMITH
Contributing Editor 
The Super Bowl is one of 
the largest competitive spectacles of the year in the United 
States. But at Carnegie Mellon, that distinction may go to 
TartanHacks. The hackathon 
 organized by app development student organization 
ScottyLabs  kicked off for 
the third year last Friday to a 
barrage of electronic dance 
music, free t-shirts, and food 
for participants.
For approximately 24 hours 
straight, various teams, comprised of up to four students 
from a variety of majors, work 
throughout the Gates Hillman 
Complex and Newell-Simon 
Hall to craft new applications 
and software tools. What 
they build is open-ended: The 
teams creative energies drive 
what they make within the 
timespan of the competition.
This year were expecting 
300 participants and about 75 
teams, said senior decision 
science and human-computer 
interaction double major and 
TartanHacks organizer Quintin Carlson.
The opening ceremony last 
Friday at 5:30 p.m. consisted 
of demos of various tools and 
application programming interfaces (APIs) presented by 
the events sponsors, which 
included Dropbox, GoDaddy, Bloomberg, Andreessen 
Horowitz, Dwolla, Jawbone, 
Capital One, Delphix, APT, 
Facebook, Microsoft, Google, 
Apple, Amazon Web Services, 
and Goldman Sachs. 
Throughout the hackathon, sponsors from the 
various companies and TartanHacks organizers were 
available to the participating 
teams to help them with any 
technical issues.
As the primary sponsor 
of the hackathon, Dropbox 
was represented by software 
engineers and alumni Sang 
Tian (SCS 13) and Nipunn 
Koorapati (ECE 13).
Personally I really enjoy 
coming back mainly because 
I get to meet my former students again, Tian said, who 
was a teaching assistant while 
at Carnegie Mellon. I taught 
for ?ve semesters, so you 
know a lot of people and its a 
really great experience seeing 
everyone. I miss the college 
days sometimes.
Demos began Saturday 
evening after the hacking 
deadline of 6 p.m. Each team 
had 75 seconds to talk about 
its hack and demonstrate it for 
the audience and judges. The 
judging panel consisted of TartanHacks organizers, sponsor 
representatives, and faculty 
members.
Plenty of teams made creative and often humorous 
hacks. Team PokeFriends! created an app that, after a user 
logs in with Facebook, plays 
a custom-version PokeRap 
from the Pokmon television 
show, only it replaces the list 
of Pokmon with the users 
Facebook friends. Team The 
Cake is a Lie created Coincidence?, an app that uses Facebook to ?nd funny subliminal 
messages, such as canadaisnotreal, by selecting random 
letters from your Facebook 
friends posts.
Some of the teams had 
similar ideas that were implemented differently. Two 
hacks, Block Market and 
DineXchange (which won an 
award from the Bloomberg 
representatives), strove to 
create a marketplace where 
students could sell and trade 
unused meal blocks and DineX 
with each other. 
Also popular were applications that translate text to 
the phrasing used in Internet 
meme Doge.
Senior information systems and human-computer 
interaction double major and 
ScottyLabs director Julia Teitelbaum started the awards 
ceremony by announcing the 
recipients of the First Penguin 
Award. The award, inspired 
by the award given out by 
former professor of computer 
science and human-computer 
interaction and The Last Lecture author Randy Pausch, is 
given to the riskiest and most 
interesting  while not necessarily functional  creation. 
The winner of the award 
was the team The Camel for 
its application (s)hopbox, 
a webcam-based game that 
can be found at shopbox.herokuapp.com.
The ?rst prize winner was 
the PuzzlePal team. Its hack 
 an application that not 
only digitizes an image of a 
crossword puzzle, but solves 
the puzzle in a short amount 
of time based on the clues for 
each row and column  netted the team the top prize.
Overall, TartanHacks gave 
hundreds of students the opportunity and motivation to 
create interesting and innovative applications. The event 
showed the incredible skills, 
talents, and drive of the Carnegie Mellon community.
Josh Smith/Contributing Editor
Left: The team Tourgeni.us presents their trip-planner project. Right: PokeFriends! presents their app, which plays a custom version of PokeRap.
HOW THINGS WORKThe complexities behind menopause and why it is of evolutionary bene?t
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor 
To those who havent gone 
through it  and even some 
who have  menopause is 
a mystifying process. Menopause is the end of a womans 
reproductive cycle.
Etymologically, menopause refers to the end of 
monthly cycles, coming from 
the Greek words for end and 
month. You might recognize 
the stem from menstruation, 
a womans monthly cycle, or 
menarche, the beginning of a 
womans menstrual cycle, basically the opposite of menopause.
Although menopause occurs at different times for different women, it usually happens around midlife, at 40 or 
50 years old. According to the 
National Institute on Aging, 
the average age of American 
women when they have their 
last period is 51.
When a woman goes 
through menopause, the end 
result is the loss of her reproductive capabilities, marked 
by the end of menstrual cycles 
and the ovaries lack of function. A woman can only of?cially say that she has gone 
through menopause  that 
she is postmenopausal  a 
full year after her last period. 
When a woman begins the 
menopausal transition but 
has not yet had her last period, shes in perimenopause 
 going through menopause. 
Perimenopause can begin as 
many as eight years before 
a womans last period and is 
heralded by a host of signs.
Menopause, like every period of bodily transition, is different for every woman. While 
hormone tests can be helpful 
for determining a womans 
menopausal state, theyre not 
always reliable, as her hormones ?uctuate.
The ?rst sign of menopause, according to the North 
American Menopause Society, is usually period problems. The phrase irregular 
periods is intimidating for 
most women; it can cover everything from having periods 
too close together to spotting 
between periods to skipping 
periods. Perimenopause also 
announces itself with a range 
of other effects, including the 
hot ?ashes that many people 
associate with menopause.
Hot ?ashes are, as the 
name implies, a feeling of 
warmth that suddenly spreads 
through the upper body, often 
accompanied by ?ushed skin 
and sweating. Hot ?ashes, 
clinically known as vasomotor symptoms, are caused by 
the hormonal changes that 
accompany the menopausal 
transition: During perimenopause, a womans estrogen 
levels are typically 20 to 30 
percent lower than normal. 
These hormone levels cause a 
change in how the body regulates temperature. Researchers, however, still dont completely understand why this 
happens.
For any men who are reading this and starting to feel 
left out, dont worry  you 
can get hot ?ashes, too. During andropause (yes, its a 
real thing), the midlife period 
when a mans testosterone 
levels decrease, he may experience hot ?ashes similar to 
those a woman experiences 
during perimenopause.
The symptoms a woman 
experiences during the menopausal transition are caused 
by a complex series of hormonal interactions. Estrogen 
is not just one hormone, but 
an overarching term that encompasses all of the hormones 
that affect a womans reproductive cycle  primarily estrone, estradiol, and estriol. 
All three of these hormones 
play different roles during 
a womans life: Estradiol is 
dominant during a womans 
reproductive prime, estriol is 
dominant during pregnancy, 
and estrone is dominant during and after the menopausal 
transition.
During a normal menstrual cycle, the ovaries produce 
estradiol, testosterone, and 
progesterone in cyclical patterns, controlled by two other 
hormones: pituitary folliclestimulating hormone (FSH) 
and luteinising hormone. 
Perimenopause is marked by 
?uctuations in levels of estradiol and FSH as the ovaries 
produce less estradiol and 
progesterone, a pregnancy 
hormone.
Along with hot ?ashes, 
these changes in hormone levels lead to many other symptoms  for example, urogenital atrophy, the scienti?c 
name for the changes to the 
vagina that occur during the 
menopausal transition. These 
symptoms can include itching, 
dryness, loss of elasticity, and 
bladder issues, all caused by 
thinning tissue and a lack of 
natural lubrication.
Other symptoms of menopause include joint aches, 
night sweats (essentially 
nighttime hot ?ashes), and 
a variety of psychological effects from depression to irritability.
Often, it can be dif?cult 
for researchers to know what 
is caused primarily by menopause and what is caused by 
simply getting older. During postmenopause, women 
are at higher risk for diseases like heart disease and 
osteoporosis.
Menopause may sound 
unpleasant, but dont worry; 
human women are not alone. 
Killer whales and pilot whales 
also stop reproducing years 
before the end of their lifetimes, and many other mammals become gradually less 
fertile as they age. Researchers are not totally sure why 
some mammals experience 
menopause and others dont; 
one possible cause is family 
structure. While menopause 
is not usually greeted with 
happiness, it may actually be 
of evolutionary bene?t for 
humans, and certain types of 
whales, to stop reproducing as 
they grow older so that they 
can help their children and 
other kin to reproduce.Brooke Kuei/SciTech Editor
SCITECH BRIEFS
Drug traf?cking 
and deforestation
Researchers at Ohio State 
University have found evidence that drug traf?cking is 
causing deforestation in remote areas of Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua, and other 
countries in Central America. 
The group of researchers, led 
by associate professor of geography Kendra McSweeney, 
recently published their ?ndings in Science. In response to 
the anti-traf?cking efforts of 
the United States, especially 
in Mexico, drug traf?ckers 
have begun to move south 
into Central America, cutting 
down precious forest land to 
make secret landing strips 
and roads. The researchers 
found that the amount of 
deforestation in Honduras 
quadrupled during the same 
time period in which cocaine 
movements in the country 
were at a peak.
Source: Science Daily
New York wants to banish mute swans
Most invasive species  
nonindigenous species that 
hurt the habitats into which 
they have been introduced  
are unappealing and disliked 
by the public. However, while 
mute swans are a beautiful 
species, the New York State 
Department of Environmental Conservation has declared 
them an invasive species and 
aims to eliminate the states 
2,200 swans by 2025. While 
they contribute to the pretty 
scenery of New York, these 
European swans also attack 
other waterfowl and people, 
get in the way of passenger 
jets, and destroy the natural 
habitats of ducks and geese 
that are native to the country. 
The planned elimination has 
spurred a war between environmental conservationists 
and animal-rights activists.
Source: The New York Times
Faster method of creating stem cells
Researchers at the RIKEN 
Center for Developmental 
Biology in Kobe, Japan and 
at Brigham and Womens 
Hospital, a teaching af?liate 
of Harvard Medical School 
in Boston, have developed a 
new technique for creating 
stem cells. The method, 
which has only been tried 
on mice, involves turning 
cells in the body into stem 
cells by bathing them in 
an acidic solution for half 
an hour. While previous 
methods of creating stem 
cells were arguably unethical 
 such as destroying human 
embryos  or required 
genetic changes in cells, this 
method creates stem cells by 
subjecting specialized cells 
to stress. The created stem 
cells were injected into early 
mice embryos which later 
reproduced successfully.
Source: The New York Times   
Neanderthal DNA in disease genes 
Many recent studies have 
suggested that early human 
species interbred, causing 
DNA from archaic humans 
to exist in people today. 
Now, Sriram Sankararaman 
and David Reich of the Harvard Medical School have 
analyzed how Neanderthal 
DNA affected Homo sapiens 
in the past and how it affects 
modern humans today. They 
discovered that Neanderthal 
DNA is found most frequently in genes associated with 
keratin, the protein found 
in skin and hair. However, 
they also found that Neanderthal DNA was prevalent 
in genes associated with diseases such as Crohns disease, 
type 2 diabetes, and lupus. 
 
Source: Scienti?c American
Compiled By
BROOKE KUEI
1st Place: PuzzlePal
Siddharth Dhulipalla, Jonathan Goldman, Harsh Pandey
2nd Place: NAFWA
Bram Wasti, Stefan Dasbach, 
Michael OFarrell
3rd Place: Fabricate.io
Todd Medema, Scott Martin, 
Hillary Mellin, Nicholas Coronado
Andreesen Horowitz: NAFWA
Bram Wasti, Stefan Dasbach, 
Michael OFarrell
Apple: Anchor
Phineas Taylor-Webb, Ajay 
Ravindran, Yaakov Lyubetsky, 
Ryan Flood
Microsoft: TeX Team
Will Crichton, Maryyann Landlord, Patrick Xia, James Yang
Facebook: uStudy
Lucy Guo, Nive Jayasekar, Sebrand Warren, Angela Zhang
Bloomberg: Stever4
Robert Maratos, Jacob Weiss, 
Kevin Reichek, Jeremy Sonpar
GoDaddy: The Countable Irrationals
Maya Rau-Murthy, Ashley Lai, 
Tian Jin, Mukund Tibrewala
Capital One: RPFTG
Alex Mermelstein, Esther 
Wang, Ivan Wang, Jun Huo
Amazon Web Services: Fabricate.IO & Gitorial
Fabricate.IO: Todd Medema, 
Scott Martin, Hillary Mellin, 
Nicholas Coronado
Gitorial: Westin Lohne, Jake 
Zimmerman, Shyam Raghavan, Aaron Gutierrez
Jawbone: Philanthro?t
Maya Lassiter, Ann Chen, Meena Gupta-Iwasaki, Preeti Gondi
Dwolla: Philanthro?t
Maya Lassiter, Ann Chen, Meena Gupta-Iwasaki, Preeti Gondi 
 2014 Results

---------------------------------------------------

ROHAN VARMA
Assistant SciTech Editor
On Wednesday, Jan. 29, 
Carnegie Mellons computer 
science department hosted 
a Data Privacy Day. The day 
was ?lled with events geared 
toward raising awareness for 
privacy concerns and helping 
students determine their own 
privacy on the Internet.
The highlight of the event 
was a keynote address by Nicole Wong, the deputy U.S. 
chief technology of?cer. 
Wong is one of the top advisers to the White House on the 
issues of Internet policy and 
privacy.
Before she began working with the President and 
the government last June, 
she worked in the technology 
industry on the legal teams 
of companies like Google 
and Twitter for 18 years. Her 
work in the industry  helping companies launch their 
products in compliance with 
privacy and copyright laws  
uniquely prepared her to craft 
policies for the United States 
that not only help the companies involved, but also the 
consumers.
At the start of her speech, 
Wong stressed the importance 
of taking a multidisciplinary 
approach to solving the problems associated with privacy. 
She noted that Carnegie Mellons culture of combining 
multiple ?elds is exactly the 
type of approach that needs 
to be taken. We need cutting 
edge research, like that going on at Carnegie Mellon, to 
distill the value from the data 
while protecting privacy, 
Wong said.
Wong drew upon the evolution of the seat belt for an 
analogy about how privacy 
must evolve over the coming 
years. As she explained, the 
seat belt was once obsolete 
and not used strictly. However, over the years, it began to 
become a social norm. Today, 
some people wont even get 
into a car that doesnt have 
seat belts.
Wong believes that privacy 
on the Internet is another 
safety precaution that needs 
to become a social norm for 
Internet users. 
However, she pinpointed 
three challenges that those 
seeking to bolster privacy 
face. First, there is a lack 
of understanding of the 
problem. 
We havent decided what 
we want to protect, Wong 
said. There is no universal 
de?nition of what privacy is.
Second, there is not 
enough awareness for the importance of privacy. 
We lack important data 
about the impact that a loss of 
privacy has. This data is critical to mobilizing stronger efforts to strengthen privacy, 
Wong said. 
When the seat belt was 
developed and normalized, 
there were terrible statistics 
about how car crashes were 
the leading cause of death 
to certain populations in the 
United States. These types of 
high-impact statistics would 
be crucial to making people 
aware that their privacy on 
the Internet should not be 
taken for granted, according 
to Wong.
Finally, Wong said, There 
is no single platform for technology. This is problematic 
because no innovator wants 
to be locked into a single universal safety tool. This ?nal 
point stresses the notion that 
privacy is a problem that cannot be solved externally or as 
a secondary concern and then 
applied to different technological products.
Wong stressed the importance of companies themselves designing products 
with privacy concerns in 
mind. To this end, she advocated for an increase in privacy engineers so that they 
could bridge the gap between 
the policymakers and the software designers to create products that adequately protect 
users privacy.
She commended Carnegie Mellons master of 
science in information 
technology-privacy engineering, a 12-month program 
that began this fall, and gave 
advice to future privacy engineers: Right now, more than 
ever, being able to communicate more broadly than your 
expertise is important.
Wong hopes to continue 
the push for successful policies that will not only reform 
privacy on the Internet, but 
also spur companies, engineers, and consumers to be 
more aware of privacy as a 
legitimate issue that needs to 
be solved.
February 3, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
MICHAEL SETZER 
Contributing Editor
Speaking to a packed room 
full of students, faculty, and 
other members of the Carnegie Mellon community last Friday, Carl Wieman  the 2001 
Nobel Laureate in Physics, as 
well as a professor of physics 
and of the Graduate School of 
Education at Stanford University  presented his views on 
improving science education. 
In his talk, Wieman spoke of 
a new paradigm for collegelevel science education and 
multiple research studies. 
The presentation, titled 
Taking a Scienti?c Approach 
to Science Education, was the 
?rst of a series of lectures related to the Simon Initiative, a 
new effort by Carnegie Mellon 
to improve student learning 
by sharing data and research 
across education experts in 
academia, industry, and foundations.
Wieman began his talk by 
stressing the importance for 
all students, future scientists or not, to be able to think 
about science more like scientists. Wieman rejects the traditional lecture model in favor 
of a more modern approach 
based upon this relatively recent research. He said that his 
new model for classroom instruction is based on advancements in cognitive psychology, 
brain research, and science 
classroom research.
Of course, Wieman himself 
used to subscribe to this traditional model of lecturing. 
Wieman used to think that, to 
be successful, a student must 
think hard, and ?gure out 
the subject. He would tell 
students about the principles 
and give problems, and they 
would either get it right or get 
it wrong. Eventually, though, 
Wieman realized that his explanations were leaving students quite baf?ed. After observing that his Ph.D. students 
would enter his lab clueless 
but be expert physicists only 
two years later, Wieman began to think differently about 
the learning process.
This enlightenment led 
Wieman to more research in 
education and in how students 
learn. Before, he believed that 
if a teacher simply gave knowledge, some students would 
soak it in. 
Now, he realizes that brains 
physically transform via a suitable exercise. Wieman also 
wanted to know what was required to make somebody an 
expert in a particular ?eld. 
Research revealed three main 
qualities: factual knowledge, 
a mental organization framework, and an ability to monitor 
and check ones own thinking 
and learning. He found that 
about 10,000 hours of intense 
practice would lead to expertise and re-wire the brain.
So how are these experts 
created? According to Wieman, educators need to design good practice activities, 
give useful feedback, and be 
motivating to help cultivate 
better learning. Using these 
techniques in the classroom 
requires expertise by instructors, he noted.
The third part of his lecture 
was devoted to research studies that supported his theories. The most dramatic example involved two separate 
sections for an introductory 
physics class, each with 250 
students. The same material 
was covered, and the exams 
were nearly identical; the 
only difference is that one was 
taught by an experienced professor giving a traditional lecture, and the other was taught 
by a post-doctoral researcher 
trained in teaching methods 
similar to Wiemans. Average 
scores on exams with the experienced professor were 41 
percent; in contrast, students 
taught by the post-doc scored 
an average of 74 percent. 
Wieman stated that there 
are approximately 1,000 other 
research studies that consistently show greater learning 
with this method. 
I dont understand how 
university administrators can 
look at results like these and 
continue traditional lectures, 
Wieman said.
Finally, Wieman offered 
advice as to what instructors in the audience could do 
immediately to improve the 
classroom experience. Educators should re-evaluate their 
homework, he said; homework should force students to 
discern what information is 
relevant and require that they 
explain why an answer is reasonable. 
Educators should also understand the limits of shortterm memory. Wieman stated 
that working memory can 
only truly dissect around ?ve 
to seven distinct new ideas, 
which is only a fraction of 
what is introduced in most 
lectures. He suggested that 
reducing the usage of jargon 
and making more explicit 
connections may ease the 
learning of new concepts. 
Third, Wieman noted the 
bene?ts to interrupting lectures with challenging conceptual questions that spark 
student-to-student discussion.
Wieman hopes that his research  coupled with other 
initiatives  can usher in a 
new way of teaching that will 
someday become ubiquitous. 
The Simon Initiative is a perfect match for teaching and 
learning as a science that is 
more research-based, Wieman said. [We want to] make 
it more like astronomy, less 
like astrology.
Courtesy of Carl Wieman
Nobel Laureate of Physics Carl Wieman gave the inaugural Simon Initiative lecture on science education.
Nobel Laureate Carl Wiemans view on science education
PUGWASH COLUMNVagueness of net neutrality Deputy U.S. chief technology 
of?cer Wong speaks at CMU  
David Franklin/Special to the Tartan
Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor
Nicole Wong, the deputy U.S. chief technology of?cer, speaks at CMU. 
I dont understand how 
university administrators can look 
at results like these and continue 
traditional lectures.
-Carl Wieman
Nobel Laureate in Physics 
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
This week, Pugwash set 
out to debate the societal implications of net neutrality, 
?rst by de?ning exactly what 
net neutrality is. 
One conception of net neutrality centers around the idea 
that no information sent over 
the Internet can be prioritized 
above other information for 
any reason. 
Other de?nitions say that 
different types of media can 
be prioritized as long as the 
information within that medium is treated equally. 
For example, it would be 
reasonable to prioritize videos over images as long as all 
video information was prioritized equally, and all image 
information was prioritized 
equally. These two de?nitions 
seem to directly contradict 
each other, but the basic idea 
remains the same. The debate 
surrounding net neutrality 
centers on whether Internet 
service providers (ISPs) have 
the right to treat packets of 
information that go across 
the web differently due to the 
information in and about the 
packet.
A lot of corporate interests 
are at stake when it comes to 
net neutrality, and much of 
the information surrounding it is heavily biased. The 
idea of a neutral source of 
information and communication sounds like an obviously 
noble pursuit, and companies 
that support net neutrality 
 as Google once did  prefer that perception. ISPs and 
others in the broadband mix, 
such as Google, now feel that 
net neutrality puts them and 
the Internet at risk. Corporate 
backers of this debate usually 
have monetary motives, so it 
is hard to truly assess the risk 
to the average citizen due to 
net neutrality.
There are a few points to 
be made by both sides for or 
against net neutrality. Most 
people who support net neutrality believe that it prevents 
discrimination against content from speci?c servers. 
In their view, net neutrality 
allows for the free ?ow of information across the Internet 
without service providers getting to decide what everyone 
gains from the net. 
They also believe that net 
neutrality will allow consumers to know how their ISPs 
are managing their Internet 
and will create transparency. 
Many people also believe that 
net neutrality sti?es innovation when larger corporations 
with more resources can more 
effectively lobby ISPs to have 
their content preferred over 
the content of sites that are 
not as well funded.
On the other hand, many 
people believe that net neutrality poses a threat to the 
Internet. They think it diminishes the right of ISPs to free 
speech. 
Further, since it minimizes 
pro?ts from broadband, many 
think that it does not provide 
incentives for ISPs to continue 
to improve the Internet in 
what is not a very competitive 
market. Others say that the 
ISPs are private organizations 
and, since the Supreme Court 
ruled that establishing net 
neutrality isnt something the 
government can do, ISPs have 
no incentive to adhere to the 
values of net neutrality since 
any free speech claims on the 
side of Internet users are not 
something to which ISPs have 
to respond.
The issue covers a broad 
spectrum of policy and societal implications due to its 
vacuous de?nition, and the 
corporate representations 
of the issue dont make life 
easy for someone attempting to parse the virtues and 
detriments of net neutrality. 
However, with an information system that is vital to so 
many peoples lives, it is an 
issue worth thinking critically 
about.
Pugwash is a non-advocacy, 
educational student organization that meets on a weekly basis to discuss the implications of 
science, technology, and medicine in society. This article is a 
summary of this weeks discussion on net neutrality.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  February 3, 2014
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Editorial Staff
* Denotes executive committee member
RACHEL COHEN*
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER*
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER
Staff Photographer
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Senior Staffwriter
SENIOR STAFFWRITERS 
Greg Hanneman, Carl Glazer
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, 
Amelia Britton, Matt Brown, Connie Chan, 
Nivedita Chopra, Blaine Greenberg, Katherine 
Huang, Evaline Ju, Karyn Michela, Satvika Neti, 
Mackenzie Nicholson, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Anne-Sophie Kim, Mina Kim, Linging 
Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni, Kyle Henson
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
SARA REMI FIELDS
Asst. Photo Editor
JASON CHEN
Asst. Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
JENNA BODNAR
Asst. Pillbox Editor
MAIRAD  PETTIT
Personnel Manager
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager 
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
Contributing Editor
Data privacy day needs more publicity for full effect
Carnegie Mellons Data Privacy 
Day, held this past Wednesday, becomes a more pertinent event every 
year. Although this celebration occurs globally, our university takes 
this topic very seriously, as we have a 
vested interest in data and computer 
security. While we hold activities 
for Data Privacy Day, they should 
be more publicized to the student 
body, especially considering recent events concerning government 
surveillance.
Last years NSA debacle validated 
fears that the United States government spies on practically everyone. During his presidency, Barack 
Obama has gone from a critic of the 
extent of our surveillance programs 
to a practical overseer of our spying 
programs  programs that dont 
seem to be going away any time 
soon. Granted, our government believes that it retains such a far-reaching eye for the safety and well-being 
of the American people, but there 
are many who feel that the government is overstepping its bounds  
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, 
for one.
The discourse for Carnegie Mellons Data Privacy Day rightfully 
shifted, then, toward subjects on 
personal privacy and information 
safety. Nicole Wong, the White 
Houses ?rst-ever chief privacy of?-
cer, was this years keynote speaker, 
and while the room in the Gates Hillman Complex had over 100 people, 
according to the Pittsburgh PostGazette, the speakers credentials 
and her topics could have brought 
a much larger audience had it been 
properly publicized.
The university seems like a perfect place to foster an environment 
to better celebrate Data Privacy 
Day. Wong mentioned our masters 
of information technology program 
 not to mention our world-class 
computer science program  as 
exemplary steps toward improving 
on privacy engineering. However, 
Wong emphasized that everyone 
wants a different level of privacy for 
different aspects of their lives, and 
that individualization of privacy is 
paramount. 
Many people at Carnegie Mellon probably care about their data 
privacy, but they could know more 
about how to implement it with a 
more public Data Privacy Day on 
campus. More events and an email to 
the student body regarding the holiday would be an easy way to make it 
more prominent on campus. Current 
Data Privacy Day activities include a 
privacy clinic, which provides advice 
for online and mobile device privacy 
settings, and a privacy research 
poster session. A larger, panel-based 
Q & A session in a more frequented 
part of campus  perhaps Rangos 
Hall  would bring more people 
and open up discourse for those who 
dont know much about data privacy.
More information about national 
Data Privacy Day and personal information safety can be found at 
staysafeonline.org.
Disney has responsibility to be progressive leader
Ariel Hoffmaier
Disney has garnered much attention, both positive and negative, in 
response to the companys recent 
series of more-or-less progressive 
choices.
Undoubtedly the most pervasive 
of these choices has been their latest ?lm, Frozen. With its feel-good, 
cutesy storyline and arguably brilliant score, its no surprise that the 
movie has surpassed $350 million in 
box of?ce sales  the most for any 
Disney movie since The Lion King 19 
years ago  and that its album has 
held the number one spot on iTunes 
for weeks since its release.
Beyond the movies enormous 
commercial success, the question of 
its cultural signi?cance has been a 
source of intense debate among critics. Much of mainstream media has 
rightly praised Frozen for feminist 
themes and motifs. For example, the 
movie prioritizes the love between 
two sisters over romantic love, as the 
latter reveals itself to be little more 
than a subplot. Also, it abandons the 
princess-as-victim trope in favor of 
the princess who makes the sacri?-
cial play and saves the day.
Though these feminist divergences from Disney norm will likely inspire young girls everywhere 
that they can be the hero, these 
divergences do not excuse some 
of the companys more questionable actions. Critics of Frozen have 
attacked it, not primarily for any 
fault of the story itself, but for being 
whitewashed.
Whitewashing is a social justice 
term for Hollywoods and medias 
tendency to make everyone white. 
It refers to a gross lack of representation for people of color in media, 
where about 50 percent of televisions main characters are white 
men, compared to only 31 percent 
in todays United States, according 
to thinkprogress.org. Whitewashing 
also refers to making characters that 
would, or reasonably could, be nonwhite, white.
Whitewashing is obviously a 
huge problem in the media, and 
critics have latched onto Frozen as 
a prime example of it. Frozen, despite its impressive feminist strides, 
fails to feature a single minority 
character. The sisters, villains, love 
interests, and even the crowds are 
all as white as paper, and even this 
choice wouldnt be of much cultural 
signi?cance if it werent the third in 
a series of similarly monochrome 
Disney ?lms.
It almost seems like Disney ?gured that it had met its people-ofcolor quota with 17 years of minority princesses  from Aladdins 
Jasmine in 1992 to Mulan in 1998 
to The Princess and the Frogs Tiana 
in 2009. 
It seems like Disney felt free to 
follow up with Braves Merida, Tangleds Rapunzel, and Frozens Elsa 
and Anna  adding another four 
white princesses for a grand total 
of nine out of 14 in all of Disneys 
history.
For many, Frozen felt like the last 
straw of disappointment. Though 
the counterargument has been 
made that Disneys last three movies 
have all been set in historically white 
locations and, therefore, to include 
people of color would have been 
unrealistic, this claim is frankly  and 
undeniably ridiculous. 
Not only is history a lot less white 
than people make it out to be, Disney makes the choice to produce 
the movies that it does. Rather than 
exploring the endless storytelling 
potential of more diverse backgrounds, it chooses over and over 
again to focus on locations that, in 
the eyes of many, excuse the domination of white characters. Thats 
not to mention that Disney, with its 
magic, talking animals and anthropomorphic furniture, does not set 
much store by realism.
Disney has a long way to go in order to be considered representative. 
Beyond race and ethnicity, Disney 
could also serve to expand its ranks 
to include non-conventionally attractive and thin characters, as well 
as non-traditional family structures.
Frozen may have inched toward 
this ideal with what could only be 
considered an Easter Egg gay character  the giant shop owner who 
refers to his family, including a man 
presumed to be his husband.
However, this character was entirely secondary to Disneys recent 
daring move of featuring the ?rst 
canonically gay characters in its 
history. 
Last weeks episode of Good Luck 
Charlie introduced canonically  in 
a refreshingly blas, non-sensationalist manner  Susan and Cheryl, a 
perfectly ordinary same-sex couple 
setting their daughter up on a playdate. Disney aired the episode, despite outspoken conservative opposition, to largely positive reception, 
according to The Huf?ngton Post.
People are hopeful, as they 
should be, that Disney will continue to make strides into the 21st 
century. Indeed, the company has 
a responsibility to be progressive. 
Disney leads, if not dominates, the 
market for childrens programming. 
More than that, Disney has shaped 
childhoods and beliefs for generations, and that cultural role is not 
likely to change anytime soon.
Disney, and the other programming it in?uences, is responsible 
for de?ning childrens perception of 
normal. Imagine a future in which 
little girls and boys can watch the 
curvy princess slay the dragon to 
win the non-white Queens heart. 
Disney has the power to make that 
future less far off than it seems.
Children are a whole lot more 
perceptive and more accepting than 
people give them credit for. Certainly, conservative naysayers will 
continue to stubbornly cover their 
children eyes and ears against the 
evils of open-mindedness. Disney 
must counter this by showing kids 
the diverse world that is reality, and 
instilling in them values for a more 
progressive future.
Ariel Hoffmaier (ahoffmai@) is 
Forum Editor for The Tartan.
Last Tuesday, President Barack 
Obama delivered his annual State 
of the Union address. While he focused on many issues ranging from 
education to the minimum wage, the 
speech had an overarching theme 
of citizenship and the role America 
plays on the global stage. 
Obama spoke of reclaiming elements of what has traditionally been 
considered the American identity 
through supporting the re-expansion 
of domestic manufacturing and increasing funding for basic scienti?c 
research initiatives. The speech also 
touched on citizen involvement in 
Americas future by addressing equal 
pay, the role of women in the workforce, and appropriate immigration 
reform.
In essence, Obama called for a 
return to the American dream and 
focus on the American citizen  to 
empower the American people by 
calling for the return of the middle 
class and, with it, traditional American values. 
Serving the nation, historically, 
has been a key element in the American vision of citizenship, one that, 
some may argue, has waned in recent years. President Obama made a 
concerted effort to place responsibility not only on Congress, but also on 
business leaders and the American 
people to come together to improve 
the country, and it was certainly refreshing in an age of pandering and 
steep divides.
While this move is an excellent 
idea, and a change America needs, 
the reality is that the President still 
faces severe Congressional roadblocks in opposition to any legislation he plans on proposing, which 
may explain his shift to higher citizen engagement. 
The President also hinted at increasing his use of the executive order when meeting these challenges, 
but it remains unclear as to whether 
he will follow through with this 
threat.
When speaking on foreign affairs 
and terrorism, Obama brought up 
Americas responsibility as a nation 
for setting a good example for the 
world. His speech extended this obligation from the purely symbolic to 
the practical, restating his desire to 
close the Guantanamo Bay detention 
center in Cuba, and draw the wars 
in the Middle East to a close. Coupling these statements with many 
references to being the greatest 
nation on Earth would make any 
proud American pleased as punch, 
but Americans are not the only ones 
hearing this speech. We certainly do 
play a large role in the worlds politics, but we cannot responsibly ful?ll 
the duties this confers without recognizing our own shortcomings.
All of the other nations of the 
world know these shortcomings, and 
when we use this overly nationalist tone, it lessens our credibility in 
the international sphere. This idea 
is particularly true when we have so 
much to learn from other nations on 
issues embroiling the country such 
as healthcare, legallymandated parental leave, and public education. 
Other nations will not be willing 
to respond to our calls for change, 
when we as a country are unwilling 
to acknowledge our shortcomings as 
well. Humility is an important virtue, 
and one which was rhetorically lacking in this speech. 
The State of the Union focused on 
many ambitious goals, but ultimately 
failed to recognize that if we wish to 
be a credible leader for international 
change and development, we need 
to understand our own ?aws ?rst.
U.S. needs national humility to enact global change
Michelle Wan/Art Editor
Disney is 
responsible for 
de?ning childrens 
perception of 
normal. Imagine 
a future in which 
little girls and 
boys can watch 
the curvy princess 
slay the dragon to 
win the non-white 
Queens heart.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
February 3, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
The Tartan watched Super Bowl XLVIII. So we asked,
What was your favorite part of the game?
Compiled by Sara Remi Fields
JUSTIN YAN
A clash of ideology in East-Central 
Europe sounds like something out 
of the Cold War, but a clash is quite 
literally taking place in Ukraine. 
Protesters  numbering 100,000
150,000 people during peak days, 
according to Ukrainian English-language newspaper Kyiv Post  have 
been ?ghting  police on the streets of 
Kiev, Ukraines capital city. 
Why? Because Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych, on the brink 
of accepting a giant trade deal with 
the European Union (EU), made a 
U-turn and truncated any association agreement that might have been 
enacted. Such an agreement would 
have allowed for higher volumes of 
trade, commerce, and diplomacy 
between the two entities, and would 
have been considered the ?rst step 
toward Ukraines integration into the 
EU. If such an agreement had gone 
through, Ukraine would have needed to make signi?cant adjustments 
to ?t EU membership criteria, which 
includes a full-on democracy, a clear 
human rights code, and transparent 
government operations. 
Obviously, such criteria would 
encourage a higher level of freedom 
of press and speech, as well as freedom for the people in general. On 
the other hand, it is understandable 
that some citizens think such an association would lead to homogenization, as well as a loss of culture, identity, and sovereignty.
Even though the eastern side of 
Ukraine feels more of a connection 
with Russia and Eastern Europe, a 
more modernistic outlook promises 
that joining the EU would be more 
favorable, not only for the Ukranian government and its development and businesses, but also for 
the Ukranian people. The following 
months will be crucial in determining if Yanukovych will mediate with 
the protesters or if the protesters will 
turn into revolutionaries. 
On the night that the association 
agreement was called off, massive riots broke out. One of the most amazing things was that the transition 
from anger to action took place literally overnight  the night of November 23. The main party in opposition 
to the government, Batkivshchyna, 
which favors European integration, 
took to Twitter and dubbed the mysterious term Euromaidan.
Euromaidan spread like wild?re, and the next day 2,000 protesters gathered. On November 24, 
that number had grown to almost 
100,000. Then, on November 30, riot 
police in Kiev launched a surprise attack on the rioters. A poll conducted 
in December showed that 46 percent 
supported EU integration. Meanwhile, 36 percent supported the Customs Union, a Russian-dominated 
trade union. 
The violence continues and, leading up to the association agreement, 
there were signs that Yanukovych 
was already starting to turn on 
promises of democracy, justice, and 
general Westernization. 
In 2011, a mere year after Yanukovych took of?ce, Yulia Tymoshenko, the leader of opposing party 
Batkivshchyna, was imprisoned on 
charges of abuse of power. Tymoshenko was largely seen as the head of 
the EU integration movement, and 
was an enemy to Yanukovych because she championed movements 
similar in terms of size and magnitude to Euromaidan.
Many questions remain regarding 
Yanukovychs true intentions. Does 
he intend to slowly tighten his grip 
around his presidency or is he trying 
to re-link Ukraine with Russia and 
Eastern Europe? What is he going to 
do about Ukraines dwindling economy, which could have been helped 
through association with the EU?
For Euromaidan supporters, the 
question now is if they can sustain 
their momentum, gather support, 
and eventually charge into a full?edged revolution. Riot police are 
clearly willing to resort to violence, 
but are the rioters? Possibly, as rioters have been known to hurl dangerous objects like molotov cocktails at riot police, according to The 
Guardian.
Many feel that Ukraine is about to 
tip into a civil war. As a result, Yanukovych has renegotiated with opposition leaders and is now promising 
amnesty to jailed protesters, in addition to the larger promise of constitutional reform. 
Will Yanukovych turn on his negotiations or will he follow through? 
Considering that Ukraine is about 
to default, Yanukovych must know 
that an economically-dead Ukraine 
is much worse than a Ukraine integrated into the EU. 
Moreover, if Yanukovych wants 
to press for his pro-Russian policies, 
he will need Ukraine to have a somewhat healthy economy in order to incentivize Russia into signing any sort 
of trade deal. The protesters are awfully close to pushing through some 
sort of reform. Only time will tell its 
extent.
Justin Yan (jky@) is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
Dystopian future fast arriving as robots steal human jobs
XIYU WANG
Someone should tell the Robotics 
Institute at Carnegie Mellon to stop 
being so good at their jobs  or else 
we may lose ours.
As robots are becoming increasingly sophisticated and intelligent, 
they also increasingly encroach upon 
occupations that were once primarily performed by people. Last year, 
a research study from the University 
of Oxford found that robots may take 
over 45 percent of current American 
jobs within the next twenty years.
Though machines were once 
limited in capability and known for 
replacing menial, unskilled occupations in factories, robots today are 
armed with speech and pattern recognition, the extensive capacity to 
collect and store data, and lightningquick processing speeds. Those skills 
alone makes quite an impressive rsum, but moreover, robots have no 
tendency to show up to work late, 
demand a raise, or slack off on the 
job. Its easy to see why companies 
are gradually replacing secretaries, 
bank tellers, phone operators, and logisticians by programming code and 
bringing in machines.
Robots are even being programmed to drive cars, write newspaper articles, babysit children, and 
yes, ?ght for the country. According 
to Popular Science, General Robert Cone revealed that the military 
is considering replacing a fourth of 
a unit of soldiers with robots and 
drones by 2030. In many ways, robots may make our lives more ef?-
cient. But what about the people who 
are doomed to lose their jobs?
Not to worry! As argued by Wired 
magazine, the coming age of automation will eventually create loads of 
new jobs, much like how the Industrial Revolution completely changed 
economies around the world. For instance, we will surely need more psychiatrists to help all the people that 
will become depressed over their unemployment.
However, at least in the shortterm, automation seems to be destroying more jobs than it is creating. 
Schussel family professor of management at the MIT Sloan School 
of Management Erik Brynjolfsson 
argues in The New York Times that 
because digital labor is a substitute 
for human labor, employment can 
no longer rise along with increases in 
productivity. 
Furthermore, Americas education system does not do nearly 
enough to prepare workers for a future economy in which highly skilled 
jobs, such as programming and engineering, will be more prevalent, according to Brynjolfsson. College is already becoming the new high school, 
and those who do not have the means 
to afford a university education are, 
at best, stuck working in low-wage 
jobs, and at worst, left unemployed.
There is also a long-term problem looming over our heads: at some 
point in the future, machines will 
most likely surpass humans in intelligence. The fundamental difference 
between the machines of the Industrial Revolution and the machines of 
the future is that robots might eventually replace humans entirely. While 
machines may make the economy 
more productive, what will happen 
to humans when machines can do 
everything we can do, only better?
Thankfully, the time to swear allegiance to the robot overlords has not 
yet arrived, but it is important to note 
that technological advancement does 
not guarantee a better outcome for 
everyone, especially for those who 
cannot keep pace with it.
Xiyu Wang (xiyuw@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Ukraine must join EU to ease unrestStop-and-frisk threatens minority citizens rights
BRANDON SCHMUCK
On Jan. 7, African-American 
16-year-old and straight-A student 
Darrin Manning became a victim of 
Philadelphias stop-and-frisk policy 
and police brutality. 
While on his way to a basketball game, Manning and his friends 
were stared down by of?cer Thomas 
Purcell, who insisted they stop and 
chased them after he saw them running in ski masks through the cold. 
Manning was roughed up, handcuffed, and sexually assaulted by 
a female of?cer, who applied such 
force that she ruptured one of his 
testicles.
She patted me down again, and 
then I felt her reach, and she grabbed 
my butt. And then she grabbed and 
squeezed again and pulled down. 
And thats when I heard something 
pop, like I felt it pop, said Manning 
in a statement to myfoxphilly.com.
It is horribly ironic to think that 
Manning is describing the actions 
of someone in law enforcement, 
whose job is to protect citizens and 
prevent incidents like this one from 
happening. 
However, with stop-and-frisk 
policies, incidents similar to the 
one that Manning was a victim of 
are encouraged more than they are 
prevented.
New York City is the city most 
known for this type of stop-andfrisk policy, which essentially gives 
police of?cers the ability to randomly stop and search citizens without 
probable cause. Every year, of?cers 
stop and question thousands of citizens while patting them down and 
searching for weapons.
There are two major reasons 
why this policy is undeniably terrible. First, it is a blatant violation 
of the Fourth Amendment, which 
guarantees protection against unreasonable searches and seizures. 
Second, it allows police of?cers to 
bypass the Constitution and search 
citizens without a warrant. According to the New York Civil Liberties 
Union (NYCLU), 89 percent of those 
stopped in the ?rst three quarters of 2013 in New York City were 
innocent.
Perhaps the worst issue with the 
stop-and-frisk policy is its obvious 
discrimination against minorities. 
The NYCLU reports that AfricanAmericans made up 56 percent of 
those stopped in the ?rst three quarters of 2013 under the program. 
The stop-and-frisk policy essentially 
allows of?cers to act on their prejudice and racism by targeting young 
African-American and Latino individuals without cause.
With laws like the stop-andfrisk policy, America is stepping 
backward to a time before the Civil 
Rights Movement. To make matters 
worse, Mannings case is just one example among many where of?cers 
have abused the stop-and-frisk policy with disastrous consequences. 
Last year, a video went viral showing 
Philadelphia police frisking AfricanAmerican citizens and saying, We 
dont want you here, anyway. All you 
do is weaken the f****** country.
Fortunately, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, who promised to 
end the era of stop-and-frisk policing, announced Thursday that he 
would be dropping New York Citys 
appeal of the U.S. District Judge 
Shira Scheindlins case that ruled 
the program unconstitutional and 
guilty of racial pro?ling, according 
to the Daily News.
Hopefully, Philadelphia and other cities that have adopted this unconstitutional policy will follow in 
New York Citys footsteps and move 
toward repealing the program once 
and for all. The stop-and-frisk program has violated the rights of many 
innocent citizens and is a great risk 
to the safety and rights of minorities 
in urban areas.
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Eunice Oh/Junior Artist
Eunice Oh/Junior Artist
Noah Goetz
CS
First-year
I like the game. It reminds me 
of home.
Maggie Davis
Decision Science
First-year
Eating good food and watching 
football!
Hernando Vidal
ECE
Junior
Bad puns referring to the name 
as in superb owl.
Lauren Zito
Psychology
Sophomore
The commercials.
Yeshar Hadi
Materials Science and 
Engineering/Physics
Sophomore
Having people explain to me 
whats going on.

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org The Tartan  February 3, 2014
Map and booth information courtesy of the Career Center
Wiegand Gymnasium
Employment Opportunities Conference 2014
Booth and company index
 F05  Anki, Inc.        E04  GoDaddy
 C03  Autodesk        H07  Google, Inc.
 A01  Branding Brand       D05  Grant Street Group
 D02  Daily Thermetrics       C11  IBM Corporation
 A07  eBay Inc.        B06  IMC Financial Markets
 H04  Epic         C06  Indeed.com
 K05, K06 Medallia, Inc.       F07, F08 Intel Corporation
 D01  National Security Agency      G09  Jut, Inc.
 K08  Piazza        G02  Lutron Electronics
 B11  Pitney Bowes       F02  Meraki: Cisco SF
 H03  Teletracking        K09, K10 Microsoft
 B07  The Mathworks, Inc.      E08  MIT Licoln Laboratory
 A04  Tradeweb        B09  Morgan Stanley
 B04  Accenture        F06  NetApp
 B03  Alcoa, Inc.        F10  nRelate.com
 B05  Allegro Development      G07, G08 NVIDIA
 B08  AllianceBernstein       B01, B02 Oracle Software and Hardware Development
 D10  Amazon Lab126       H10  OSIsoft, LLC.
 D11  Amazon.com       K07  Raytheon Company
 C09  Andreessen Horowitz      F09  Rhiza Labs
 H08  Ansys, Inc.        E05, E06 Riverbed Technology
 D04  Aspera Inc.        H01  Robert Bosch LLC-RTC
 A10  AT&T         K03  Rockwell Automation
 G10  Avencore        K01  S&P Capital IQ / McGraw Hill Financial 
 E07  Avere Systems Inc.       E09, E10 Salesforce.com
 A05  Bank of America       F01  SanDisk
 D09  Blackstone        G03, G04 Schlumberger
 E02  Bloomberg L.P.       F11  Spiceworks 
 J01  Capital One        K04  Square, Inc.
 E01  Central Intelligence Agency     F03, F04 Texas Instruments
 D06  Cisco Systems, Inc.       A06  The Boeing Company
 C07  Compunetix        G01  The Timken Company
 H02  CustomInk        G05  Twilio, Inc.
 H05, H06 Dropbox        B10  Two Sigma Investments, L.L.C.
 A08  DRW Trading Group      A02, A03 Unilever
 K02  Duetto Research       A09  UPMC
 D03  Dwyer Instruments, Inc.      E11  Vallourec & Mannesmann
 J03, J04 Facebook        D07  Venmo
 C05  Factset Research Systems Inc.     J02  VMware
 D08  Fino Consulting       G06  WillowTree Apps
 H09  Fusionio        G11  Wolverine Trading, L.L.C.
  
Tuesday, February 4  Wednesday, February 5
Tuesday, Feb. 4

---------------------------------------------------

February 3, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org  A9
Map and booth information courtesy of the Career Center
Wiegand Gymnasium
Booth and company index
 F05  Anki, Inc.        E04  GoDaddy
 C03  Autodesk        H07  Google, Inc.
 A01  Branding Brand       D05  Grant Street Group
 D02  Daily Thermetrics       C11  IBM Corporation
 A07  eBay Inc.        B06  IMC Financial Markets
 H04  Epic         C06  Indeed.com
 K05, K06 Medallia, Inc.       F07, F08 Intel Corporation
 D01  National Security Agency      G09  Jut, Inc.
 K08  Piazza        G02  Lutron Electronics
 B11  Pitney Bowes       F02  Meraki: Cisco SF
 H03  Teletracking        K09, K10 Microsoft
 B07  The Mathworks, Inc.      E08  MIT Licoln Laboratory
 A04  Tradeweb        B09  Morgan Stanley
 B04  Accenture        F06  NetApp
 B03  Alcoa, Inc.        F10  nRelate.com
 B05  Allegro Development      G07, G08 NVIDIA
 B08  AllianceBernstein       B01, B02 Oracle Software and Hardware Development
 D10  Amazon Lab126       H10  OSIsoft, LLC.
 D11  Amazon.com       K07  Raytheon Company
 C09  Andreessen Horowitz      F09  Rhiza Labs
 H08  Ansys, Inc.        E05, E06 Riverbed Technology
 D04  Aspera Inc.        H01  Robert Bosch LLC-RTC
 A10  AT&T         K03  Rockwell Automation
 G10  Avencore        K01  S&P Capital IQ / McGraw Hill Financial 
 E07  Avere Systems Inc.       E09, E10 Salesforce.com
 A05  Bank of America       F01  SanDisk
 D09  Blackstone        G03, G04 Schlumberger
 E02  Bloomberg L.P.       F11  Spiceworks 
 J01  Capital One        K04  Square, Inc.
 E01  Central Intelligence Agency     F03, F04 Texas Instruments
 D06  Cisco Systems, Inc.       A06  The Boeing Company
 C07  Compunetix        G01  The Timken Company
 H02  CustomInk        G05  Twilio, Inc.
 H05, H06 Dropbox        B10  Two Sigma Investments, L.L.C.
 A08  DRW Trading Group      A02, A03 Unilever
 K02  Duetto Research       A09  UPMC
 D03  Dwyer Instruments, Inc.      E11  Vallourec & Mannesmann
 J03, J04 Facebook        D07  Venmo
 C05  Factset Research Systems Inc.     J02  VMware
 D08  Fino Consulting       G06  WillowTree Apps
 H09  Fusionio        G11  Wolverine Trading, L.L.C.
  
M10 Agilex        V04,V05 Medallia, Inc.
R05  Anki, Inc.       V07  MediaMath
L02  ASML        N05  Medidata Solutions
M01 athenahealth      P03  Mylan, Inc.
S01  Audible       R06  National Instruments
N03 Autodesk       P01  National Security Agency
Q01 AvantCredit       L06  Nest Labs
R08  Battelle Memorial Institute    M05  NetSuite
P10  Bechtel Marine Propulsion Corporation   Q07  Nutanix
P11  Bechtel Plant Machinery, Inc.    N04  Oceans Edge Inc.
N07 Bluebeam Software     M02  Oculus VR
L01  Branding Brand      S05  ORAU
T02  Charter Manufacturing     N08  Parsons
N11  Chopper Trading LLC     T04  PayTango, Inc.
Q03 Citi        S04  PDT Partners, LLC
R09  Constant Contact      V08  Piazza
S06  Cyan, Inc.       M11  Pitney Bowes
P02  Daily Thermetrics      M03  Precision Therapeutics, Inc.
P05  Decisive Analytics Corporation    Q05  Quizlet
M09 Dow Jones       Q06  Raytheon BBN Technologies
L07  eBay Inc.       T05  Readyforce
L08  EC Infosystems Inc.     R07  Red?n Corporation
Q04 Epic        U03  RetailMeNot, Inc.
N09  Exelis        N06  Roblox
Q08 Farelogix, Inc.      M08  Straightforward Consulting
Q09 FireEye       S02  TATA Consultancy Services
P08  General Dynamics Electric Boat    T03  TeleTrackings Technologies, Inc.
U02 General Motors      R01  The Bank of New York Mellon
L05  Geospatial Corporation     M07  The Mathworks, Inc.
P04  Harman International     Q02  The MITRE Corporation
R10  In?ection       L04  Tradeweb
V01  iRobot Corporation     R11  TripAdvisor L.L.C.
U04 JPMorgan Chase      V02  Trunk Club
P07  KCG        U01  Urban Teacher Center
V03  Key Tech       P09  U.S. Navy
Q10 Liquidnet       P06  Veris Group, L.L.C.
Q11 LORD Corporation      L09  Vertica, an HP Company
L03  ManTech International Corporation   N10  Visa Inc.
M06 McAfee, Inc.       L10  Wayfair
T01  McMaster-Carr      R03  Wealthfront
Employment Opportunities Conference 2014
Wednesday, Feb. 5
Tuesday, February 4  Wednesday, February 5

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org The Tartan  February 3, 2014
Its never too early to search 
for your dream job at the EOC
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Junior Staffwriter
If you walk into the University Center Tuesday and 
Wednesday while taking the 
warmer route to class, you 
may feel out of place amongst 
an exceptionally well-dressed 
crowd, the likes of which are 
rarely seen on campus outside of the Tepper School of 
Business. Its that time of year 
again: various companies are 
here this week for the Spring 
Employment Opportunities 
Conference (EOC), the semesters largest career fair that 
will take place in the Wiegand 
Gymnasium in the University 
Center from 126 p.m.
If youre an underclassman, chances are that youre 
not going. Perhaps, you intended to go, but are now having second thoughts, given 
the number of jobs that go to 
upperclassmen. On the other 
hand, you may be going, but 
mainly for the swag  free 
stuff, for the uninitiated. Here 
are some better reasons to go 
to the EOC as an underclassman.
Nothing to lose
Take a moment to sit back 
and think about your dream 
job. I bet there will be at least 
one company at the EOC 
where you can get that job, or 
do something related thats 
equally exciting. This semesters EOC is one of the few 
events at which youll have 
absolutely nothing to lose 
by talking to recruiters. Your 
passion may even impress 
them enough to land you that 
dream summer job! Youll 
never know if you dont take 
the plunge.
Preparation for following 
career fairs
If youre ?rmly convinced 
that theres no way that the 
company of your choice will 
hire a freshman or sophomore, heres a more practical reason to go to the EOC. 
Going to the EOC this year is 
good preparation for your following years at Carnegie Mellon. Attending this semester 
will allow you to feel what its 
like, so that you know what to 
expect as an upperclassman. 
Simply walk up to the company that youre eyeing for a job 
in the future, and chat with 
the recruiter. Ask about the 
companys required quali?cations and interview process, 
so that you know what theyre 
looking for and can be better 
prepared for the following 
year, when youre in the running for a job there.
Small booths hold much 
opportunity
While youre at it, check 
out some of the smaller 
booths that none of the upperclassmen are going to. Chatting with the recruiters there 
is less stressful  sometimes 
even fun  and can de?nitely 
boost your con?dence. 
And remember, theyre 
hiring too. So if they offer any 
opportunities youre interested in, go for it! The odds of 
getting that job are substantially higher and the company 
probably pays more than traditional summer employers.
So, hunt out your nicest 
formal clothes and be prepared to join the crowd of 
well-dressed students at the 
EOC. Draft a quick rsum  
or update an existing one  you 
have and print out a few 
dozen copies. Make a name 
tag, be sure to dress nicely, 
and get ready to go!
Kelsey Scott/Staff Photographer
Con?dence, research, motivation: tips to properly prepare for the EOC
LINDSAY ELLIOTT-FOOSE
Special to The Tartan
If you plan on attending 
the Employment Opportunities Conference (EOC) this 
week, you must remember 
four things: do research, 
come prepared, be con?dent, 
and just go. The EOC has 
some amazing opportunities 
and you need to shine in the 
crowd of 2,000 other nervous 
students in order to take the 
best advantage of them. Here 
are some easy ways to make 
the most of the EOC.
Do your research
Look at the list of attending companies on TartanTRAK. Navigate to the EOC in 
the Events tab and use the 
Advanced Search and Search 
Agent Creation option to 
search companies by position 
type, industry, and what type 
of citizenship they accept. 
Check what positions your 
target companies are offering.
There is a lot of information available about the 160+ 
companies attending the 
EOC. Take advantage of it. 
Check out what positions they 
are offering on TartanTRAK 
or on their own websites. You 
dont necessarily need to preapply to these positions, but 
know their titles and necessary skills.
See if any of your target 
companies are holding information sessions. These 
can be great opportunities to 
learn more about the companies and their positions, as 
well as to network with the recruiters.
Go to the Career and Professional Development Center 
in the days before the career 
fair. Often there are workshops and rsum review 
sessions. Why not get advice 
from the experts?
Come prepared
Print your rsum ahead of 
time to avoid technical issues 
or long lines at the printers. 
Practice your elevator pitch, 
a 3045 second introduction that includes your name, 
choice of study, and what position you are interested in. 
Also include one or two past 
experiences or current interests that relate to a speci?c 
company, and why you wanted to talk to the company.
Bring some extra paper to 
write notes on after you ?nish talking to a recruiter. Use 
these notes to follow-up with 
the recruiter, or to add relevant points to a cover letter 
or personal statement.
Dress professionally, but 
comfortably. Dress code is of?cially business casual, meaning you shouldnt wear jeans 
or t-shirts, but you likely dont 
need to wear a suit either. Be 
sure youre wearing comfortable shoes and that your out?t is comfortable in the often 
overly-warm environment of 
the EOC. Avoid aggressive 
cologne or perfume, and its 
always a good idea to pack a 
toothbrush, hairbrush, and 
lint-roller in an EOC kit for 
the day.
Be con?dent
Recruiters come to Carnegie Mellon because the students here are some of the 
smartest, most talented and 
innovative recruits they can 
?nd. Act like it! Too often, 
students dont represent their 
level of skill and hard work to 
a company. Be sure to make 
the most of this ?rst impression. Dont be shy about selling your skills and accomplishments.
Dont be afraid to tell a 
company you would really 
like the job. 
There is little space for 
coyness in todays job market. 
Avoid being pushy, but feel 
free to ask if they are holding 
interviews on campus or asking for more contacts to network with.
Be conscious of the nonverbal cues you give. Try to 
avoid texting while waiting in 
line, stand straight and con?-
dent when speaking with recruiters, and be sure to maintain eye contact.
Just go!
With over 140 companies 
looking to talk with students, 
there is no reason to skip the 
EOC! Some students may get 
interviews and offers immediately following the fair, others 
can gain valuable networking 
contacts, and still others learn 
more about their own interests and possible industries to 
consider.
Lindsay Elliott-Foose is the 
Lead Career Peer Mentor at the 
Carnegie Mellon Career and 
Professional Development Center and one of the teachers for 
the How To Get A Job StuCo.
SHWETA SURESH
Tartan Alumna
When it comes to making a 
good ?rst impression, appearance matters. Carnegie Mellon students have a reputation 
of not caring too much about 
(supposedly) trivial things 
like attire. But at job fairs, recruiters are judging students 
not only by their rsums but 
also the color of their suits.
With this in mind, it is imperative that students try to 
look polished and conservative. Finding the right heels or 
the perfect tie is as important 
as formatting a rsum.
WomenSince the dress code for 
the conferences is business 
formal, women should stick 
to a conservative suit or skirt 
in black, navy, or gray. Wearing a suit jacket is a must, or 
you will end up looking too 
casual for the event. Also, try 
to avoid wearing lacy or silky 
camisoles under your jacket. 
A crisp shirt in a solid color is 
a much better option  not 
only is it a safe, conservative 
bet, but it also looks smart.
When it comes to styling, 
all attempts should be made 
to create a clean and polished 
look. Hair should be tied back 
neatly in a pony tail or pinned 
back so that it doesnt fall on 
the face. Nude pantyhose are 
a must if you are wearing a 
skirt suit, and even if you are 
wearing a pant suit, wear 
thin, nude socks.
When it comes to accessories, the choice of shoes is an 
important one. Dont pick the 
stylish, open-toed heels you 
would wear to a night out. Instead, go with a sensible pair 
of pumps. A quick tip: Make 
sure you are comfortable in 
your heels. Job fairs involve 
a lot of standing and waiting 
in lines, and you dont want 
to be doing all of it with sore 
feet. Add some simple jewelry 
to make your look more elegant and attractive. Stay away 
from large, chunky necklaces 
and long, dangly earrings. 
Find simple studs and a small 
pendant that suit your out?t 
and youre good to go.
MenA business suit is also a 
necessity for men. While colors like black, navy, and gray 
will all work, men can also 
impress in a pinstriped suit. 
A white shirt is the safest bet, 
and it is important to make 
sure the shirt cuffs are close 
to one-half of an inch longer 
than their jacket sleeves.
A special feature of the 
mens look is the tie. Remember: The tie is supposed to 
serve as an accessory, not an 
attention-grabber; leave your 
Homer Simpson tie at home 
and wear something more 
suited to the occasion. Additionally, if this is your ?rst 
time tying a tie, practice a few 
times before the day of the 
conference. 
YouTube has some good 
tutorials that can prove useful. Make sure your tie is not 
too long and hanging below 
your belt, or too short and 
stopping above it.
Its important to keep in 
mind that even though you 
may have put the perfect  interview out?t together, all of 
it will amount to nothing if 
you are not con?dent about 
your appearance. 
While adhering to the 
dress code and smartening 
up your attire are essential, 
remaining cool and con?dent 
about yourself is even more 
important.
Editors note: This article was 
run in a previous issue. It has 
been edited to ?t in the space 
available.
How to look snappy: knock the employers socks off
Preparing the best rsum
ZANETA GRANT
Special to The Tartan
When going to the EOC, it 
is important to have a strong 
rsum to make you stand 
out from all of the other candidates. Here are some short, 
informal guidelines for writing a rsum.
Header
In the heading, your name 
comes ?rst, and you want 
that to be the most prominent 
part. Make it noticeable, under 40 point font, and either 
left-align or center-align it. A 
nice, bold name in a formal 
serif will suf?ce. The address 
at which you receive most of 
your mail, as well as a phone 
number and email address, 
should also be in the heading. 
If you have a personal website, list it there as well.
Education
The education section 
is where to put relevant intended majors or minors, 
expected graduation date, 
and the name and location of 
your school. Once in college, 
you should try to avoid placing your high school on the 
rsum. You can include your 
GPA if it is high given your 
current major  especially if 
you are a Deans List honoree. 
If your GPA is poor, leave it off 
 if they really want to know, 
theyll ask.
Experience
Here is the trickiest and 
most important part of your 
rsum. When listing experiences, you should choose the 
ones that connect skills to the 
jobs quali?cations. However, 
dont copy full-length sentences word for word from the 
job advertisement. 
What you should do is try 
to articulate your skills in a 
way that sounds similar to the 
skills the employer is looking 
for in a candidate. Eliminate 
use of ?rst-person if possible, 
and dont forget to use active 
verbs when listing the tasks 
your job entailed. 
You should also try to use 
short bulleted lists to make 
it easier to scan the information. And stay concise  no 
one wants to read eight paragraphs about your retail experience.
Activites
In some cases, your activities might even be more 
relevant than your actual 
work experience, and should 
thus be boldly and centrally 
placed. You should try your 
best to list your most relevant 
activities. For example, if you 
are applying for a web design 
internship, list related activities: copy writing, search engine optimization, or visual 
design experience. In terms 
of activities which are not related to the position, it is important to highlight activities 
you can actually speak about, 
not clubs where you attended 
a single meeting. As always, 
either cut out the irrelevant 
information, or ?nd a way 
to tie it into the way you sell 
yourself.
Skills
The skills section is where 
you advertise any skills that 
havent been addressed in the 
other sections. Be sure you 
are actually advertising real 
skills, not generic qualities 
that anyone can claim. 
List languages you speak 
and languages you code. List 
a hobby or two that may be 
something an interviewer can 
connect with and better understand you as a person.
Editors note: This article was 
run in a previous issue. It has 
been edited to ?t in the space 
available.
Kate Groschner/Contributing Editor and Kelsey Scott/Staff Photographer
Contributing Editor Jonathan Carreon and sophomore mechanical engineering student Anna Mirabella modeled appropriate EOC attire last year.
Youll never 
know if you 
dont take the 
plunge.
Employment Opportunities Conference 2014
Tuesday, February 4  Wednesday, February 5

---------------------------------------------------

February 3, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter 
It was an up-and-down 
weekend for Tartan basketball with both the men and 
womens teams going 11 in 
University Athletic Association 
play against New York University and Brandeis University.
The Friday doubleheader 
started with the women taking on the Violets from NYU. 
It was a rough opening for the 
Tartans with several turnovers 
in the ?rst few possessions. 
It took over three-and-a-half 
minutes for Carnegie Mellon 
to score their ?rst points, and 
even that took two bad turnovers from the Violets.
Senior guard Jacquie 
Shaw scored four quick points 
around the seven-minute 
mark to bring the game to a 
more respectable 69, but 
quickly picked up her second 
foul and was forced to the 
bench. Junior guard Gabrielle 
West picked up some of the 
scoring slack with Shaw on 
the bench, eventually tying 
up the game at 12 points with 
eight minutes left in the half.
Shaw then took the lead for 
the Tartans with a driving layup followed quickly by a West 
jumper to extend the Carnegie 
Mellon lead. The teams traded 
baskets through the rest of the 
half, and the Violets were able 
to tie it up, but never had quite 
enough momentum to overtake the Tartans.
Coming out of halftime, 
NYU ?red up, hitting seven of 
nine shots during a 202 run 
that looked to put the game 
out of reach.
The Tartans, however, were 
not to be denied and went on 
their own 150 run led by 
sophomore forward Liza Otto, 
?nally taking back the lead 
with under six minutes to play 
on a jump shot by sophomore 
guard Lindsay Poss.
The two squads kept trading leads for the next few 
possessions before the Violets 
pushed the lead to six with just 
over two minutes left to play. 
The Tartans responded, and 
freshman center-forward Lisa 
Murphy, who was shut out in 
the ?rst half, scored four quick 
points to bring the game back 
with under a minute to play.
The Tartans took the lead 
for good on a putback by Shaw 
with 25 seconds left. NYU had 
a chance to take back the lead 
but missed two free throws 
with 15 seconds left, all but 
ensuring a Tartan victory, 
7168.
After the game, Shaw said, 
Our UAA season got off to 
a slow start, but were really 
happy about our win... and we 
know its an indication of how 
well we can play.
After all the excitement of 
the womens game, the men 
looked like they would deliver 
more of the same, with the 
game starting off even with 
the teams trading baskets and 
fouls. The game was tied at 15 
midway through the ?rst half 
before NYU pulled out to a 
double digit lead.
Coming out of half time, 
the Tartans kept attempting a 
comeback, but werent able to 
cut the lead back to single digits until there was only 1:29 
remaining in the game, and by 
then it was too little too late 
with Carnegie Mellon falling, 
7965.
On Sunday, the men started 
off the doubleheader against 
Brandeis University.
Freshman forward Jack 
Serbin dominated the game 
from start to ?nish, scoring 
nine of the Tartans ?rst 12 
points as they jumped out to 
a quick 126 lead. The Judges 
battled back and took a small 
lead with just over 11 minutes 
left in the ?rst half.
The teams were even down 
the stretch and tied at 41 at 
halftime, Serbin leading all 
scorers with 17 points.
Out of half, Brandeis took a 
slight lead before senior guard 
Asad Meghani scored seven 
unanswered points to put the 
Tartans back on top.
The Judges refused to go 
away and took the lead again 
with 8:36 remaining, only to 
have Serbin rattle off another 
three shots to given the Tartans a four point lead. The 
lead shrunk to one before senior forward Rob Mohen hit a 
free throw to push it to its ?nal 
resting place at two.
Brandeis had a chance to 
tie it up, but Serbin ?ashed 
his defensive skill by blocking 
a shot with only two seconds 
left, helping to guarantee a 
Carnegie Mellon victory, 
7775.
Similar to Friday game, the 
Tartan women played a game 
of runs exchanging a 101 run 
by Brandeis for a 90 run of 
their own to take the lead with 
under six minutes to go in the 
?rst half.
Shaw continued her scoring ways, at one point making 
eight straight points for the 
Tartans to help them take a 
3027 lead into half.
The Tartans eventual 
downfall came on the glass, 
with the Judges dominating 
the offensive boards, leading 
to 10 second-chance points for 
them in the second half alone.
Carnegie Mellon had a ?vepoint lead late in the second 
half, but the Judges ?nally 
took the lead for good on a 
free throw with 3:23 left.
The womens team moved 
to 117 on the year and 25 
in UAA play, and the men improved to 108 overall and 34 
in league play following this 
weekends games.
Tartan basketball teams have a weekend of mixed results
Jason Chen/Assistant Photo Editor
The womens and mens basketball teams faced off against the NYU Violets. Sophomore Liza Otto (left) shoots as the Violets play defense. Senior Christian Manoli (top right) aggressively dribbles down the court, and junior Seth 
Cordts assists freshman Jack Serbin for two points.

---------------------------------------------------

February 3, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A12
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
From the opening play 
of Super Bowl XLVIII, it was 
clear that last night was just 
not going to be the Denver 
Broncos night. National Football League (NFL) MVP and 
Denver Broncos quarterback 
Peyton Manning couldnt corral the snap, which launched 
over his head and into the end 
zone for a Seattle Seahawks 
safety. This was just the beginning of a night of mistakes 
for the Broncos as the Seattle 
Seahawks clearly got the better of the hyped matchup between Denvers No. 1 offense 
and Seattles No. 1 defense. 
While the ?nal score of 
438 makes it look like Seattles offense was lighting 
up the ?eld, it was really the 
Seattle defense and special 
teams that was responsible 
for this large outpouring of 
points. Not including the 
safety, Denver had four other 
turnovers which set up second 
year quarterback Russell Wilson and the Seattle offense in 
fantastic ?eld position, setting 
them up for 21 points off of 
turnovers. This trend included 
a 69-yard interception return 
for a touchdown by linebacker 
and Super Bowl MVP Malcolm 
Smith.
While Smith may have won 
the of?cial MVP title, the most 
valuable squad on the ?eld 
was clearly the Seattle secondary, nicknamed the Legion of 
Boom (LOB). From the opening Bronco pass play, the LOB 
made it nearly impossible for 
Manning to get anything going through the air. Seahawks 
safety Kam Chancellor ?nished the game with nine tackles, including the tone-setting 
leveling of Denver wide-out 
Demaryius Thomas on the 
?rst Broncos pass attempt, to 
go along with an interception. 
The Seattle defensive line, 
while not really showing up 
on the stat sheet, de?nitely 
showed up in the game. Seattle speed rushers Cliff Avril, 
Michael Bennett and Chris 
Clemons made the usually 
stout Denver offensive line 
look shaky, constantly getting 
pressure on Manning and altering many of his throws, including a tipped pass by Avril 
that led to the Smith pick six.
Thomas, Manning, and the 
rest of the Broncos offense 
actually had a record-setting 
offensive performance in the 
Super Bowl, but it did not 
translate to the scoreboard. 
Manning had the most completions   34  in Super 
Bowl history with Thomas setting the record for most receptions in the big game with 13. 
For Seattles offense, the 
name of the game was consistency. Wilson did his best to 
protect the football and made 
timely plays with both his arm 
and his legs to keep the ball 
moving down the ?eld. Partially due to the fantastic ?eld 
position created by the defense, the Seahawks were only 
forced to punt once, and only 
turned the ball over on downs 
twice when attempting to run 
the clock out at the end of the 
game. 
The only truly explosive 
plays from the Seahawks offense came from wide receiver 
Percy Harvin. Acquired from 
the Minnesota Vikings for 
a ?rst round pick in the offseason, Harvin battled injuries 
all season, playing under 50 
plays for Seattle before the Super Bowl. But Harvin quickly 
showed his worth on the 
Seahawks second play from 
scrimmage on a quick 30-yard 
run that was nearly broken 
for a touchdown. Harvin also 
helped put the game well out 
of reach with his kickoff return 
for a touchdown to start the 
second half.
The biggest surprise in the 
game  other than the complete domination by the Seahawks  was the utter lack 
of a running game by either 
team. Harvin was the leading 
rusher for both teams with 2 
runs for 45 yards. 
Both teams had strong 
rushing games coming into 
the season, with Broncos running back Knowshon Moreno 
and Seahawks running back 
Marshawn Lynch running for 
over 1,000 yards during the 
season. Many experts were 
expecting this game to be a 
run-heavy game, but with the 
better than expected temperatures, no precipitation, the 
early Seattle lead, and Denver 
forcing Wilson to beat them 
with his arm, neither back really got going. 
Overall, this game was not 
the exciting Super Bowl many 
hoped it would be. There 
were exciting plays and fancy 
moves, but all drama was gone 
by the ?rst half. If not for the 
advertisements and the starstudded halftime show, Im 
sure many viewers would have 
turned off the game at halftime. But even when one part 
of the viewing trifecta doesnt 
live up to expectations, the 
other two can carry the weight 
on their own.
Seattle Seahawks defeat Denver Broncos for ?rst Super Bowl win
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
After the Brooklyn Nets 
traded for power forwards 
and centers Kevin Garnett and 
Paul Pierce in the off-season, 
adding to an already-talented 
core, the New York Knicks 
were supposed to progress 
from an exciting season that 
yielded a No. 2 seed in the 
East Conference and a trip to 
the conference semi?nals. 
Instead, injuries and the 
peaking Indiana Pacers derailed the Knicks dream year. 
Few predicted the joyless 
abyss that would become the 
?rst half of this seasons incarnation of the Knicks.
The only notable roster 
changes from last year were 
the losses of retired point 
guard Jason Kidd, now coach 
of the Nets, and power forward 
Chris Copeland to the Indiana 
Pacers, as well as the trade of 
three-point specialist Steve 
Novak to the Toronto Raptors 
for center Andrea Bargnani, 
and power forward and center 
Amare Stoudemires actual 
appearance on the court. 
However, this roster seems 
like a huge regression for what 
is basically the same team.
The Knicks have a lot of 
things working against them. 
One thing that always has to 
be noted with the Knicks is 
that the team is poorly managed. Players are handed awful contracts for lengthy periods, draft picks are shunned 
for aging talent, and without 
the huge draw of the best market in professional sports, this 
team would probably be sold 
or absorbed by the National 
Basketball Association (NBA) 
after years of bad results and 
little reason to care. 
Unfortunately, New Yorkers are stuck with this stinker 
of an organization pulling together nothing of note from 
200010. This recent run of 
success was an anomaly, a 
case of stars wanting to play 
in New York rather than the 
Knicks actually doing something to create a good team. 
The result was a very talented and poorly constructed 
team with disappointing, early 
playoff exits in consecutive 
seasons. This bad management is one of the ?rst reasons 
the Knicks are struggling so 
much this season.
This poor administration 
causes three big issues. The 
?rst is that the Knicks are perpetually capped out and cannot respond to legitimate team 
needs, making it easier for 
other teams to ?gure out how 
to beat the Knicks from year to 
year. 
The second issue is that 
Jay-Zs Creative Artists Agency 
(CAA) has basically taken control of the Knicks basketball 
operations, causing silly basketball moves like giving small 
forward J.R. Smith (more on 
him later) a huge raise and 
signing his brother. 
The third issue is that players never really develop into 
the stars theyre supposed to 
become, and these disappointing results yield sad basketball stories like guard Iman 
Shumpert, a player who was 
supposed to be a star and regressed mightily this year due 
to poor coaching and frustration with trade rumors. These 
three issues have hampered 
the Knicks greatly in different 
ways and all contribute to this 
disaster of a season.
The lack of attention paid to 
key problems with the Knicks 
last year  basically, the defense behind rim-protecting 
center Tyson Chandler  was 
predictably a huge problem 
for the Knicks. When Chandler 
was lost to a leg injury early in 
the season, the Knicks went on 
a disastrous nine-game losing 
streak, putting them in a huge 
hole going forward. 
The defense last year was 
an unmitigated disaster. The 
Knicks could not stop anyone, 
and there is no way to win a 
basketball game if the other 
team scores at will. 
This issue was compounded by an awful offensive scheme from coach Mike 
Woodson, which basically 
boils down to passing to small 
forward Carmelo Melo Anthony and standing still while 
he tries to score by himself. To 
his credit, hes put together a 
stellar season despite running 
what seems like in?nite isolation plays. 
Poor point guard play from 
Raymond Felton and an injury 
to point guard Pablo Prigioni 
have caused ball movement to 
be a huge issue for the Knicks, 
probably contributing to all of 
the isolations.
Carmelo is clearly a top-?ve 
talent in the NBA and has been 
incredibly effective from midrange over the course of the 
year. His problem, as always, 
is that he is ineffective going 
to the basket and doesnt play 
defense. Its not a safe bet to 
build an entire team around a 
player whose bread and butter is the midrange shot  a 
usually very inef?cient way of 
scoring  and absolutely no 
help on offense. 
With a consistently one-dimensional offense and little in 
the way of defense, it becomes 
more obvious why the Knicks 
are struggling: Theyre playing 
to their weakness, and theyre 
taking no steps to help cover 
these weaknesses.
The teams big off-season 
acquisition was draft bust 
power forward Andrea Bargnani, known as an awful rim 
protector and rebounder, further compounding the Knicks 
lack of defense without really 
diversifying the offense. 
In fairness to Bargnani, he 
has played very well, but he 
still has not clicked defensively, and protecting the rim is a 
huge hole behind Chandler, 
who is of almost no use on offense. With bad personnel and 
bad schemes, winning was 
never a likely outcome.
One player who was supposed to help the Knicks defensively was shooting guard 
and small forward Shumpert. 
He played very well in the 
playoffs and, compared to 
other Knicks, was a defensive 
wizard. The key phrase here 
is compared to other Knicks. 
His defense can get lazy and 
he watches the ball a lot instead of paying attention to 
who he is guarding. 
Offensively, hes not useful for much any more besides 
three-point shots. Shumperts 
regression might be attributable to frustration with trade 
rumors earlier in the season, 
but that does not change the 
fact that he is having a signi?-
cantly worse season than he 
did the previous year. 
The Knicks stubborn refusal to trade him at the beginning 
of the year turned out to be a 
missed opportunity. Shumpert may be good one day, but 
not for the Knicks. There is no 
system for developing players 
into stars on the Knicks. With 
no ?rst-round draft picks until 
2019, the Knicks probably 
understand this problem.
Speaking of regression, 
Smith, a key contributor last 
season, is having a terrible 
season. When on the ?oor, 
Smith has been missing shots 
at a stunning clip, shooting 37 
percent and chucking 12 awful shots per game. That unimpressive record only happens 
when hes not getting ?ned 
for untying opposing players 
shoelaces or getting benched 
for missing meetings. In games 
Smith has missed, the Knicks 
have been excellent, beating 
the Miami Heat and the Dallas 
Mavericks. 
The Knicks had an okay 
?rst ?ve games of the season 
while Smith was suspended 
for violating the leagues illegal substance policy. Smith, 
playing upwards of 30 minutes a game, went from barely 
advantageous to a huge drawback this year.
In addition to his shooting 
de?ciencies, Smith continues 
to hog the ball and play awful 
defense. His shoelace-untying 
and pot-smoking also comes in 
addition to his af?liation with 
the CAA, which he abused to 
force the Knicks into keeping 
his brother, point guard Chris 
Smith, on the roster despite 
not being a NBA-caliber 
player. 
J.R. Smiths regression is 
probably the most apparent 
way in which Kidds retirement hurt the Knicks. Kidd 
consistently put Smith in a position to score, which in?ated 
Smiths stats noticeably. The 
missed shots this year have 
piled up and made the Knicks 
way worse for their efforts.
Though its not comprehensive, the coaching and personnel problems facing the Knicks 
show that the lofty projections 
for this team were probably 
more of an overestimation of 
the talent on the roster rather 
than a reasonable prediction 
of mediocrity. 
The Knicks should be able 
to turn their season around, 
but the teams poor management is a bad omen for future 
results. 
The horrible Eastern conference means they should 
be a playoff team, but in the 
Eastern Conference, thats not 
really anything to hang ones 
hat on.
Knicks disappoint fans, still have time to turn it around
Alison Chiu / Junior Artist
Courtesy of Keith Allison via FlickrSmall forward Carmelo Melo Anthony has been an important player in the Knicks up-and-down season.

---------------------------------------------------


Astria Suparak
A look through the former Miller 
Gallery curators career  B8
02.03.14 Volume 107, Issue 16
Inside Cradle
The Carnegie Mellon student-designed 
game launches a Kickstarter campaign 
to further development  B5

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Get in your weekly dose of humor.11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents The Hunger Games: 
Catching Fire and The Spectacular Now.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord 
ART EDITOR Michelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung 
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Courtesy of Mojo Game Studios
8
64510
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about the EOC 
and vermin.
3
...diversions
...this week only
AHS ?nale
American Horror Story: Coven season finale 
fails to satisfy viewers.
3
Company
Sondheims musical comedy is a light 
commentary on the married life.
4
Cradle
The Mojo Game Studios video game 
Kickstarter campaign begins.
5
Erwin Redl
An exclusive interview with the artist behind a 
light installation in the Wood Street Galleries.
6
Twink
Twink, an electronic dance music band, 
releases the album Happy Houses.
7
Miller Gallery
A retrospective look at the Miller Gallery and 
former curator Astria Suparak.
8
Madagascar
The Quantum Theatre company presents a 
distinctive play.
10
Puzzles
Stretch your brain in a fun way for once.13
Horoscopes
Your fate awaits you.14
Calendar
Things to do around the community and 
campus this week.
15

---------------------------------------------------

television
pillbox 02.03.143
Coven sputters at ?nal episode
American Horror Story ends an unfull?lling third season 
Warning: This article contains spoilers from the 
episodes Go to Hell and The Seven Wonders of 
American Horror Story: Coven.
Looking at the track record of FXs American 
Horror Story season finales, one expects the finale 
of the miniseries third season to disappoint. The 
season one finale ended almost like a comedy, while 
the second season covered several years in two 
episodes. American Horror Story: Covens finale, 
The Seven Wonders, is no exception, concluding 
what was ultimately a mediocre season.
The third season of the show started off strong with 
intriguing characters like slave torturer Madame 
Delphine LaLaurie (Kathy Bates) and voodoo queen 
Marie Laveau (Angela Bassett). Both characters 
are based on real people who lived in New Orleans 
during the 1800s, and their feud promised an 
unprecedented tension for the series. LaLaurie had 
tortured Laveaus lover, and in return, Laveau buried 
LaLaurie alive until she was dug up by Fiona Goode 
(Jessica Lange), the Supreme witch of the coven.
The season faltered when characters began to die 
only to be brought back to life by swamp witch 
Misty Day (Lily Rabe), who had the power of 
resurgence. No death felt final, and there were too 
many to make any death feel significant.
Co-creators Brad Falchuk and Ryan Murphy seemed 
to turn the season around with the conclusion of 
LaLaurie and Laveaus stories in a shared hell in 
the second-to-last episode, Go to Hell. Two other 
characters seemed to definitively die in dramatic 
murders in the penultimate episode, and Fionas 
daughter, Cordelia (Sarah Paulson), promised for 
a strong finale with the announcement that the 
witches of the coven would compete to be the next 
Supreme.
However, the chaos of Go to Hell was replaced by 
a much quieter finale when the show eschewed a 
fight to the finish among the potential Supremes. 
The true Supreme was determined halfway through 
the episode, and standout witch Myrtle Snow 
(Frances Conroy) unnecessarily asked for her own 
death. The competition also seemed cut short. 
The witches competed in a 20-minute string of 
unimpressive tasks, like pulling candles across a 
table using telekinesis and making the others slap 
themselves. There were no direct confrontations of 
power or deadly outbursts.
Despite the lackluster finale, the episode had several 
fantastic moments, such as when the witches 
played tag by teleportation, only to end the game 
with the death of a character. Characters like 
Madison Montgomery (Emma Roberts) and Misty 
Day had satisfying conclusions to their stories, 
although one of their conclusions may not have been 
deserved.
Misty Days hell was the most striking scene of the 
episode, in which she repeatedly had to cut through 
a living frog in a biology classroom. All potential 
Supremes descended into the depths of hell as part 
of their competition to see if they could come back 
to the living.
Madisons initial refusal to bring a witch back to life, 
as well as her abuse of Kyle Roberts (Evan Peters) 
during the mind control task, solidified her bad 
intentions in a pleasingly terrifying way. The answer 
to the question, Who will be the next Supreme? 
was even answered with a deserving character, 
although the reveal was not as dramatic as the 
creators promised it would be.
Looking back on what was sure to be a five-star 
season, American Horror Story: Coven failed to 
deliver a cohesive storyline, with the female leads 
 witches and mortals alike  attempting to kill 
each another in one episode before reconciling their 
differences in the next for apparently no reason. 
The ability to bring characters back to life took 
away the fear of death that was consistently present 
in previous seasons. But despite its downfalls, 
the season provided viewers with some of the 
miniseriess best characters  especially LaLaurie 
 and reintroduced actresses that starred in the 
first season but were absent from the second, 
including Taissa Farmiga and Jamie Brewer.
While the season didnt offer the thrill of previous 
seasons, it drew in enough viewers to justify a 
fourth. Early rumors report that the circus is coming 
to town.
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
Courtesy of djandyw via Flickr
Advice for awkward people
Dear Matt and Ryan,
The entire time Ive been 
living in my house Ive 
seen rats or other small 
rodents on the floor of 
my bedroom. However, 
at some point in the 
past week of single-digit 
temperatures, some kind 
of fiercer varmints have 
invaded and, after a night 
of unseen bloodshed and 
dreadful noises, some 
kind of new hellbeast  I 
think theyre opossums 
 have moved in and 
replaced my lovely, quiet 
rats. Theyre obnoxious 
and I dont like them. The 
landlord came by and left 
us some traps, but its 
too late for that. Theyve 
practically taken over the 
house. What can I do?
Sincerely,
Plague Of Small 
Somethings Under 
Mattress, Knife 
Introduction Looking 
Likely, Eager, Ready
Dear POSSUM KILLER,
First, let us preface this by 
saying the smart thing to do 
is just to stay the course and 
take the critters out one by 
one with the trap. But there 
are other options. You could 
rip up your floorboards and 
physically grab them. You 
could go to Japan, where 
high in the mountains, 
there is a sword blessed 
by the spirits to smite small 
unwelcome beings. Or you 
could shrink yourself down 
and slip beneath the floor 
yourself, befriend them, and 
trick them into leaving. Good 
luck!
Unless, of course, theyre 
actually hellbeasts,
Matt and Ryan
Dear Matt and Ryan,
The Employment 
Opportunities Conference 
(EOC) is this week and Im 
freaking out and totally 
underprepared, but I need 
a job and I dont know 
what to do. Please help 
me.
Sincerely,
Actually Having Heart 
Hardships
Dear AHHH,
Okay. Calm down. First of 
all, do you have a rsum 
written up? If not, then you 
should. Its really easy, and 
if you need some extra 
help, go to the Career and 
Professional Development 
Center (CPDC) for walk-in 
hours or just to grab a 
pamphlet. As soon as its 
done, print a bunch of 
copies ASAP. You dont want 
to be waiting at the printer 
on the day of the EOC. 
Next, do some research 
on the companies thatll be 
there and figure out who 
youd truly be interested in 
working for. This will also 
come across when youre 
talking to the recruiters, that 
youve actually learned a bit 
about their companies. Step 
three is to dress up. You 
should go for a full suit, but 
if you only have a nice shirt, 
tie (for guys), and pants you 
can rent a sports coat from 
the CPDC. Finally, just get 
out there and do it. Talk to 
people, show your passion, 
and make them interested 
in you. You go to Carnegie 
Mellon. Youre smart. Even if 
you have to fake it, put on an 
air of confidence. 
Its a scary thing, but 
youre not alone,
Ryan and Matt
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About killing varmints and EOC jitters
While the episode was a let down as a whole, 
characters such as Madison Montgomery (Emma 
Roberts) had satisfying story endings.

---------------------------------------------------

4theatre
pillbox 02.03.14
On Jan. 23, a chilly night in downtown Pittsburgh, the 
citys Cultural District was bustling with enthusiastic 
theater patrons. Musical Wicked satis?ed expectations 
with a sold out Benedum Center, musical comedy Judge 
Jackie Justice played at the CLO Cabaret, and, at the 
OReilly Theater, locals gathered for the premiere of the 
Pittsburgh Public Theaters (PPT) latest production: 
Stephen Sondheims Company.
A musical comedy as colorful as its advertisement 
campaign, which currently paints the Pittsburgh 
skyline, Company is a staple of musical theater and 
a masterpiece of the Sondheim repertoire. The story 
features three single girls, ?ve married couples, and 
their 35-year-old single friend, Robert, who has some 
inhibitions about marriage. Throughout the show, the 
married couples teach Robert everything they think he 
should know about married life. In essence, the show is a 
commentary on marriage and how it affects people, told 
by quirky characters as they make their journey through 
everyday life. Company is an experience that leaves 
each member of the audience with something different 
to take away. Perhaps this fact is the essence of the 
shows genius.
The PPT, as usual, has produced a stellar piece of 
theater. With this production of Company, Ted Pappas, 
PPTs producing artistic director, and the creative team 
have captured Sondheims vision in a complete and 
satisfying package.
From the moment the audience enters the charming 
OReilly Theater, the shows exciting atmosphere is 
evident. The set, designed by James Noone, is a modern 
two-story Manhattan apartment with a few sofas and a 
liquor cart. The set is simple and intimate, yet enticing 
and theatrical. The stage has a symmetrical layout, with 
two hallways leading backstage and two staircases 
adjacent to the hallways, which converge seamlessly 
to form the second-story balcony. Above this balcony, a 
series of stylized windows and rectangular screens that 
extend far above the stage ?oor and stare down at the 
audience.
One exciting feature of this production is the graphics 
and videos projected on the screens above the stage. 
Short clips of bustling Manhattan streets and images 
of the famous New York City skyline appear at different 
points of the performance. 
These graphics and videos bring an ingenious addition 
to the scenic design and ensure that the shows setting 
is always alive.
Throughout the performance, new set pieces enter the 
space through a large door center stage or through the 
hallways. The seamless set changes and extra details 
add to the atmosphere of the show.
Hidden below the stage is the orchestra, directed by F. 
Wade Russo. Sondheims music is a major aspect of this 
production and requires an all-star orchestra. Thankfully, 
the orchestra delivers Sondheims score in all its zany 
splendor.
Of course, the acting and singing in this production 
is fantastic. The cast, assembled by casting company 
Cindi Rush Casting, could not be a better-suited band 
of actors. Each scene introduces a new character with 
amusing quirks and an infectious personality. Robert 
is played by Carnegie Mellon alumnus Jim Stanek 
(CFA 94), and his ?ne acting and lovely singing voice 
carry the show successfully. Sarah (Nancy Anderson) 
is one of this productions most memorable characters. 
In one of the earliest scenes, her comedic banter with 
Harry (Benjamin Howes) had the audience roaring with 
laughter.
Courtney Balans rendition of Getting Married Today 
is one major highlight. Darren Eliker (CFA, 92) gives 
a colorful portrayal of Larry in his scene with Joanne, 
played by Judy Blazer. Blazers performance of the iconic 
tune, Ladies Who Lunch, does not disappoint.
Company lives and breathes through its large cast of 
characters. The PPT has assembled a stellar cast of 
actors in every respect. Each actor brings something 
unique to this production and contributes to its overall 
success.
The characters are completed by their costumes, 
designed by Martha Bromelmeier. The men wear 
business-style attire and many of the women wear ?oral 
dresses and skirts, but each costume is accented in 
some way with pastels. This subtle addition of color adds 
to the life of the piece.
At the end of Thursdays performance, the audience rose 
to its feet with applause. The diverse crowd of patrons 
ranged from theater-going elderly couples to lyricmouthing teenagers, yet all seemed to be moved by this 
production. Company offers something for everyone.
The PPTs production of Company is a true success. 
Coherent artistic design, an unmatched cast, and an 
extremely well-communicated version of Sondheims 
musical represents another win for the PPT.
Company runs through Feb. 23 at the OReilly Theater. 
To learn more about the show, visit ppt.org.
Zachary A. Mendez | Staffwriter
Courtesy of Pittsburgh Public Theater
The cast of Company sings around Robert, a single 
man who is taught by his friends to forgo his inhibitions and embrace married life. Robert is played by 
Carnegie Mellon alumnus Jim Stanek (CFA 94).
Sondheims Company pleases the crowd
Quirky musical comedy provides lighthearted commentary on marriage and love

---------------------------------------------------

games
pillbox 02.03.145
CMU students launch Kickstarter campaign 
Cradle features innovative combat controls and detailed world to create an immersive experience
In the upcoming PC and Linux game Cradle, you are 
an outcast on the run. Black tendrils follow closely 
behind, covering the land in a blanket of shadows. Your 
journey has taken you to the Cradle, a forgotten realm 
associated with free will and creation. The god of this 
realm, Aderyn, has tasked you to return the Cradle to 
the known world. In return, your survival is ensured 
and humankind will once again experience free will  
something that was stolen from them eons ago.
Mojo Game Studios, an independent game studio 
based in Pittsburgh and founded by Carnegie Mellon 
students, is weaving together an open-world fantasy 
action game with a focus on skill-based combat and 
self-driven exploration. Founder and lead designer Hank 
Zwally explained [I] was getting tired of seeing the 
same games come out over and over. I wanted to be the 
change in the industry I wanted to see. After creating 
a demo at Carnegie Mellons Game Creation Society, 
Zwally and a few other key members founded Mojo 
Game Studios to further develop Cradle.
Combat
If a player wishes to survive, nothing but a mastery 
of the combat and movement system will suf?ce 
in Cradle. Using the mouse, the player must aim 
the cursor to connect attacks. Left and right clicks 
in?uence the direction of melee swings. Additionally, 
Cradle uses a method of ?uid movement that will allow 
360 movement, similar to console controller analog 
movement, with conventional WASD and mouse 
controls. Animations are responsive to what actions 
were taken and where they occurred. A chop to the head 
will obviously play out differently than a hit to the groin. 
Such features are lacking in most mainstream games, 
and Cradle hopes to innovate combat by going the extra 
step.
Cradle aspires to re?ect a players intent within the 
game. To enable that, Cradle gives the player many 
character choices and allows extensive interaction 
with the environment. There are ?ve starting classes 
(arcanist, druid, ranger, paladin, and swordsman) with 
combat specializations that make every experience 
individualized. Different classes interact with the 
environment in unique ways. A ranger may climb trees 
for higher ground, while a paladin might smash through 
a tree to get a foe. A player can then pick and choose 
among an assortment of weapons to suit a unique play 
style. Do you like hitting hard? A heavy weapon may 
be your best friend. Are you a pyromaniac? A player 
can even augment a weapon so that it is always on ?re. 
But the enemies found in Cradle are no pushovers, and 
resources are limited. Skill, along with smart decisions, 
lead to victory.
Exploration
Open-world games are popular because they allow 
players to take the game at their own pace. A player 
can rush through a game or decide to stop and smell the 
roses. The world of Cradle is crafted to evoke feelings 
of wonder and wanderlust. Five distinct environments, 
ranging from the overgrown Titanwood forest to the 
ruined Port Bayou city, give the player plenty of space.
The Cradle itself is wild and forgotten, lead VFX artist 
and current Carnegie Mellon senior ?ne arts major 
Nathan Trevino explained. [The] architecture and 
environment has mixed up in a sometimes disgusting, 
sometimes gorgeous way. We have elements of our art 
direction that hint at the world before.
But the world is not just eye candy. Plants can be picked 
and brewed. Environmental puzzles lay in the open, 
waiting to be solved. Inventory does not pause the game, 
healing items are carried on an avatars body, and even 
character selection has been built into the in-game 
world. 
A common trend in open-world games is to have quests 
that reward the player for completing certain activities. 
However, these quests often feel like checklists 
done simply to get a piece of loot. Cradle aspires to 
have a world that inspires activity and interaction. 
Environmental clues, mysterious items, scrawled notes, 
and other objects are placed in the world of Cradle to 
lead players on their own paths. There are non-playable 
characters who may push the player toward certain 
directions, but Cradle promises that there wont be any 
seemingly purposeless tasks.
The Future of Cradle
As Cradle has been in development for over a year, the 
foundation for the game has already been laid. The game 
is in a playable state, though several concepts stated 
above are being worked on. The goal is to have 10 to 
15 hours of gameplay on a speedrun, though the game 
could be as long as 50 to 100 hours if the player chooses 
to explore, according to the games creators. Mojo Game 
Studios hopes to distribute the game via Steam and 
their website. Potentially risky goals  include multiplayer 
co-op, extensive voice acting, and console support.
Mojo Game Studios hopes to launch Cradle in the 
summer of 2016. In order to build a community of 
players, as well as secure the necessary funds, Mojo 
Game Studios has chosen to use Kickstarter. Kickstarter 
is a crowd-funding website that allows backers to make 
payments via Amazon toward projects. Backers are not 
charged unless the project succeeds and are rewarded 
for certain amounts. The catch is that theres a time limit 
 Cradle has 17 days to raise $350,000 or the project 
wont be funded through Kickstarter.
Angela Liu | Junior Staffwriter
In Cradle  which is currently under development pending the results of a recently-launched Kickstarter 
campaign  players are tasked with returning the Cradle to the known world to return freewill to humankind.
Courtesy of Mojo Game Studios

---------------------------------------------------

6art
pillbox 02.03.14
I had the opportunity to interview the Pittsburgh Cultural 
Trust Wood Street Galleries curator Murray Horne and 
artist Erwin Redl, the mind behind the Structures of 
Time and Space displays at the gallery. The series of 
large-scale light installations opened on Jan. 24 and will 
be on display through Apr. 6. The following is an indepth look at the ideas behind the innovative display.
Interview with Pittsburgh Cultural Trust Wood 
Street Galleries curator Murray Horne
Q: What makes this display unique?
A: Erwin is a pioneer in the use of LED lighting for 
artwork and has been working with this medium for 
nearly 20 years.
Q: How do you ?nd it relates to other pieces you 
have curated?
A: It relates directly as the gallery is focused on new 
media artwork.
Q: What part of the exhibit speaks the most to you 
and why?
A: Twists and Turns on the second ?oor gallery asks an 
interesting question: Is symmetry born out of chaos or 
vice-versa?
Interview with artist Erwin Redl
Q: How did you come up with the idea for this 
display?
A: The presentation of my work was driven by the 
unique spatial options at Wood Street Galleries. The 
galleries have two ?oors with the same layout, and 
both ?oors can be sealed from daylight. Murray Horne, 
Wood Street Galleries curator, selected two installations 
from very different periods of my career. Speed Shift, 
the LED-installation with sound on the third ?oor, 
was conceived in 2006. It has been shown in different 
versions in the U.S., Canada, Spain, and the Ukraine. 
Twists and Turns, the laser installation on the second 
?oor, was conceived in 2012 and has never been 
exhibited before. Both installations are site-speci?c. 
Distinctive features of the exhibition space are being 
used to express the primary artistic idea underlying 
the installations. One of those features at Wood Street 
Galleries is that both rooms have an extreme elongated 
4:9 ?oor plan ratio of length to width. Upon entering the 
space you are immediately confronted with the wide 
back wall with its super CinemaScope proportion which 
is hard to comprehend in one view. It evokes the same 
epic feeling as a wide horizon. Both installation set-ups 
refer directly to this primary spatial sensation.
Q: Why LED art?
A: Only the installation Speed Shift uses LEDs. Twists 
and Turns uses lasers re?ected off acrylic plates. I prefer 
not to refer to my work as LED art. My main artistic 
investigation concerns the corporeal experience of 
space and structure. The choice of media is secondary. 
LEDs, as well as lasers, offer great means to delineate 
space in a very precise manner. Single color LEDs 
and lasers exclusively emit a single light frequency. 
Those precisely-tuned color frequencies make LEDs 
and lasers perfectly suited to exemplify the structural 
and proportional thinking fundamental to my work. 
The installations use the aesthetics of LED and laser 
technology with its single-point light source as a 
reference to the computer pixel and as the aesthetic link 
between virtual and real space.
Q: What kind of professional or technical training 
do you have, and did it help you in creating this 
display?
A: I attended a polytechnic high school near Vienna, 
Austria, with a focus on furniture making, interior 
design, and architecture. After high school, I studied 
electronic music and composition at the University of 
Music and Performing Arts in Vienna. In 1993, I went 
to New York on a Fulbright Stipend to get an MFA in 
computer art at School of Visual Arts. I acquired a lot 
of the technical knowledge by working at several New 
York start-ups designing and programming interactive 
custom electronics after my graduate studies.
Q: What would you like viewers to take away 
after viewing the display?
A: Both installations have a sense of calm and tranquility 
that is crucial in my work. Despite my abstract aesthetic 
language and the arti?ciality of the medium, the 
sensuality as well as corporeality of the created space is 
important to me.
Q: What part of the exhibit speaks most to you 
and why?
A: What is most fascinating for me is how different the 
two installations are and how different the reactions 
of the audience was  very different from what I was 
expecting. Speed Shift on the third  with its cold, 
white LEDs and sound  seems to socially animate the 
audience. During the opening, it almost felt like a party 
room. People were extremely talkative and non-stop 
took pictures of themselves in front of the work. The 
second ?oor with the much darker Twists and Turns 
installation was extremely quiet, almost silent. I thought 
it would be different. I thought that the cave-like warmth 
of the second ?oor with red and blue lasers would 
generate a more active social space and the stark white 
light on the third ?oor would make people more distant 
from each other. It illustrates that the audience and the 
interactions between audience members become an 
active, often unpredictable part of my installations.
Jenna Bodnar | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Interview with pioneer light artist Erwin Redl
Redl sits down with The Tartan to discuss his recent Structures of Time and Space display
Courtesy of anthony ko via Flickr
Erwin Redl has been working with LED lighting to create his innovative artwork for nearly 20 years.
Erwin Redls main artistic mission in his large-scale 
light installations is to investigate how humans 
experience space and structure. 
Courtesy of Eli Carrico via Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 02.03.147
What is dance music? Even though it has thoroughly 
permeated popular culture, the phrase dance music is 
nebulous at best. Does it have to be electronic? Does it 
need a drop? Can music still be called dance music if its 
rock, hip-hop, or country? Does dance music even need 
to have a de?nition, or does it just need to get people out 
of their seats? Does it even need to do that?
Even though the shapeless nature of dance music has 
sparked numerous arguments between purists and 
casual fans, it has allowed for an enormous amount of 
innovation. Since 2003, Mike Langlie has proven himself 
to be one of dance musics most innovative producers 
with his musical project  the band Twink.
Using the sounds of a toy piano as his primary 
instrument, Langlie taps into the core of modern dance 
music to craft songs that have a universal appeal and 
prove that kitsch is not an inherently super?cial novelty. 
On Feb. 10, Langlie will release his ninth album. Happy 
Houses is a collection of eight tracks that demonstrate 
Langlies intimate understanding of dance music.
It is easy to dismiss Langlies music as childish on ?rst 
listen. It evokes such strong memories of early youth 
that it often begs comparisons to child entertainers like 
Raf? or Laurie Berkner. The plinky toy piano on lead 
single Close to Home brings to mind a trippier version 
of Mark Mothersbaughs score for The Rugrats. Even in 
parts where the toy piano is absent and a dubby bass 
wobble dominates the song, there is a sense of jubilation 
that only one with a toddlers naivet could experience.
While other notably kitschy songs like Ylviss What Does 
the Fox Say? or the Bed Intruder Song lose their luster 
and appeal after the novelty wears off; repeated listens to 
Langlies Close to Home result in an appreciation for its 
fantastic and tight arrangement. There is a natural ebb 
and ?ow in the instrumentation and song progression 
that legitimizes the use of the toy piano.
The accompanying music video is almost too surreal 
to explain. It can be best described as a house 
transplanting other miniature pastel-colored houses from 
 their perches on urban walkways to the wilderness. 
The video is nearly impossible to take seriously, but 
maybe thats the point of Happy Houses.
With song titles like Ostrich Hop, Gumdrop Glitter, 
and Crocodilly, its clear that Langlie has little, if 
any, concern for being considered a serious musician. 
Instead, he concerns himself with channeling the 
simplicity and wonder of early childhood in his music. 
From the sublime weirdness of  the synths and samples 
in Chickaboo to the windup-toy, percussive groove of 
Frankentoy, each song offers a unique perspective into 
Langlies mind.
It is impossible to compare Langlies music to music that 
is marked by its creators desires to be seen as a real 
music maker. Langlies aspirations are laid out clearly 
on Happy Houses, and none of them involve others 
perceptions of him. Happy Houses is a half-hour-long 
indulgence in the simple pleasure of creating music.
Matt Mastricova | Staffwriter
Twinks latest album innovates dance music
Happy Houses uses minimalist technique and childish equipment to craft unique sound
Andie Park | Staffwriter
After winning the 74th Annual Hunger Games, hope and order seem to be 
restored when Katniss Everdeen (Jennifer Lawrence) returns to her district with 
fellow winner Peeta Mellark (Josh Hutcherson). However, the Capitol calls for 
Katniss to return and participate in the next Hunger Games to prove whether or 
not her love for Peeta is genuine. The Hunger Games: Catching Fire is a ferocious 
?lm thats even more ruthless and action packed than its predecessor. Director 
Francis Lawrence heightens the tension and energy of the drama by creating a 
sense of imprisonment and cynicism as Katniss struggles for her freedom from the 
Capitol. The Hunger Games: Catching Fire is more intense and even better than 
the ?rst movie in the series, with incredible performances and nonstop adventure.
The Hunger Games: Catching Fire
Friday, Feb. 7  8 and 11 p.m.
Saturday, Feb. 8  8 and 11 p.m.
The Spectacular Now
Sunday, Feb. 9
8 and 10:30 p.m.
High school senior Sutter Keely (Miles Teller) is living the life and enjoying every 
minute of it. However, as Sutter starts to drink and party too much, his girlfriend 
dumps him, sending him into a drinking spree that results in him waking up on 
a lawn. Good girl Aimee Finecky (Shailene Woodley) comes to the rescue and 
what ensues is a budding friendship-turned-romance. Yes, its a coming-of-age 
movie, but dont expect it to be full of teenage angst or a hackneyed search for 
identity. Written by Scott Neustadter and Michael Weber  who also wrote 500 
Days of Summer  and based on the novel of the same name by Tim Tharp, The 
Spectacular Now is full of whimsical charm and endearing performances.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 02.03.1498feature
pillbox 02.03.14
Just as Carnegie Mellon isnt a typical university, over 
the last six years the Miller Gallery has not been an 
average university gallery.
The Miller Gallery was founded to be a place to foster 
experimentation and research in many disciplines 
through the process of art making. The gallery 
exempli?es the inherently Carnegie Mellon philosophy 
of interdisciplinary research, studying how technology, 
culture, and innovation shape the present and future, 
through ambitious, creative projects.
During her time at the Miller Gallery, former director 
Astria Suparak transformed the gallery into an 
innovation space featuring interdisciplinary, cuttingedge, contemporary art, drawing from both the Carnegie 
Mellon campus and around the world.
In light of her removal, it seems ?tting to look back 
at highlights from her tenure at the Miller Gallery, to 
remember the standard that she brought into the gallery 
with her programming. While Suparak connected 
Carnegie Mellon with the broader art world, in doing so 
she in?uenced and involved many students, professors, 
and thinkers by bringing contemporary art to them.
Suparak came to the Miller Gallery as an alreadyestablished, mid-career curator and artist. She studied 
drawing and art history at Pratt Institute on a full artistic 
merit scholarship and, during her time there, worked 
as the director of a weekly multimedia ?lm series. 
Suparak began her curating career in her undergraduate 
years, working with distinguished contemporary art 
institutions in New York and internationally. By the time 
she obtained a masters degree in museum studies at 
Syracuse University, she had already put together over 
20 shows in New York and around the globe.
Suparak focused on exploring the meaning of creating 
a forum for engaged conversations about creativity 
and innovation. The gallery was successful because 
it pushed its own limits, expanding the de?nition of 
an art gallery into a dynamic space with its own ideas 
and perspectives. A gallery had to not just be a place 
for conclusive art pieces, but rather for artists to come 
together for the process of creating.
In one of her ?rst exhibitions at Carnegie Mellon, 
Suparak transformed the Miller Gallery into a bythe-books city as part of the show Your Town. The 
exhibition was a reaction to the way in which corporate, 
mass-produced real estate, design, and commerce has 
transformed communities. The exhibit was a powerful 
re?ection on the broad issue of losing originality, 
heritage, and culture in a corporatized world and drew 
immediate response from the Pittsburgh art and activist 
community.
Continuing to play with the effects of capitalist culture 
on society, another exhibition called Keep it Slick  
highlighted the art-activist work of The Yes Men, a 
group that ?ghts against the evils of corporate culture 
through satirical installation work.
Just as Suparak made a fast impression on Pittsburgh, 
she stretched outside of the traditional art spectrum to 
create a uniquely Pittsburgh exhibit called Whatever It 
Takes: Steelers Fan Collections, Rituals, and Obsessions. 
The show was unique  the ?rst major art exhibition 
to take sports ideology seriously  ?lling the gallery 
this time with Steelers-everything, from the expected 
endless posters, shirts, and blankets, to the absurd 
poodles dressed fully in Steelers garb and an interactive 
installation of a Super Bowl. In addition to its popular 
appeal, the show was a meaningful exploration of what 
it means to be a fan, recognizing the value in unity 
through a ritualized cultural obsession.
Nationally-noted Miller Gallery curator Astria Suparak let go from Carnegie Mellon
A retrospective look at the contemporary, interdisciplinary, and thought-provoking displays featured at the Miller Gallery during Suparaks residence
                  Jason Chen | Assistant Photo Editor
by Sarah Moss-Horwitz | Staffwriter[]In 2011, Suparak fully established the Miller Gallerys 
place within the Pittsburgh art scene by organizing 
the 2011 Pittsburgh Biennial. Collaborating with many 
art institutions, including the Carnegie Museums and 
the Andy Warhol Museum, the exhibition highlighted 
art organizations connected to Pittsburgh as a way 
to generate a dynamic understanding of the artistic 
pursuits within the city. The brilliance of the exhibition 
was that it simultaneously created an opportunity for the 
art community in Pittsburgh while bringing recognition 
to the Miller Gallery and art at Carnegie Mellon.
Suparaks work brought together artists, researchers, 
and intellectuals to explore ideas about social, 
political, environmental, technological, and cultural 
tensions within the world today. Large in scale and 
ambition, many of the exhibitions toured nationally 
and internationally. The Miller Gallery bene?ted 
tremendously from being known as the source of truly 
world-class exhibits and collaborations that went far 
beyond the narrow construct of a campus art gallery.
Working alongside the universitys overall goals to 
become more interdisciplinary, Suparak stretched the 
work of the Miller Gallery past the humanities and into 
science and technology. Recently, the gallery put on the 
show Intimate Science, guest curated by Andrea Grover, 
that revealed a world of artists whose medium is science 
and technology.
The work Suparak has done at Carnegie Mellon has not 
been left unnoticed. Noted press includes The New York 
Times, Pittsburgh City Paper, The Huf?ngton Post, Art 
in America, FOX News, and ABC News among many 
others.
For Carnegie Mellon, the importance of Suparaks 
work with the Miller Gallery was not only its role as a 
respected platform to showcase the innovative research 
of artists, designers, scientists and thinkers, but also to 
connect and contextualize the university community 
within the broader picture. To focus only on the work 
being done on campus, as remarkable as it is, devalues 
the gallerys place in society.
For art students at Carnegie Mellon, the Miller Gallery 
has been a vital part of the School of Art. Sophomore ?ne 
arts major Emily Miller says of the gallery, Most leading 
art schools in the country have some kind of gallery that 
arent just for student exhibitions and it brings it outside 
artists which students can learn from, and it enriches the 
culture of the community of Pittsburgh... We need to be 
exposed to professional artwork and artists. Ironically, 
while the rationale for the reorganization of the gallery 
was to provide more opportunities for students and 
faculty, Miller says that the change would do more harm 
then good: The Frame gallery is already a place for 
students to exhibit their work so theres no real reason to 
have the Miller Gallery to serve that role as well.
Suparaks time at the Miller Gallery set a new standard of 
creative collaboration, which future leaders of the gallery 
must work to live up to for the sake of the universitys 
reputation as a leader in contemporary art work and 
interdisciplinary research.
In her years at the Miller Gallery, Suparak never waried from bringing in politically-charged exhibits. 2012s 
Imperfect Health questioned whether healthcare is the responsibility of the individual or society as a whole.
Kate Groeschner | Contributing Editor
Suparak brought a diverse range of exhibits to the 
Miller Gallery such as 2012s Intimate Science, which 
focused on artists that use science and technology as 
their medium. 
Daniel Tkacikn | Tartan Alumnus
In addition to hosting outside artists, the Miller Gallery 
often showcased Carnegie Mellon student work in 
displays such as 2013s Basement Miracle. 
                  Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
Astria Suparaks final contribution to the Miller Gallery  the currently on-display Alien She  examines the Riot 
Grrrl movement of the 90s and its lasting impact on modern feminism.

---------------------------------------------------

10theatre
pillbox 02.03.14
A trip to see a play put on by the Quantum Theatre 
company is not the average theater-going experience. 
This Pittsburgh-based company ?nds different locations 
for each play it presents. Our patrons think of it as 
an adventure ?nding the next venue, said Stevie 
Herendeen, director of community relations for Quantum 
Theatre.
The Carlyle, the venue for the companys current 
show, Madagascar, provides a more-than-appropriate 
backdrop for a story involving characters from a world 
of wealth and privilege. Artistic director Karla Boos said 
the location, previously a Union National Bank replete 
with marble columns and ?oors, references the Greek 
Classical period, a luxurious place known to the world of 
people of privilege.
The story centers around Lilian (Helena Ruoti), June 
(Melinda Helfrich), and Nathan (Larry John Meyers), 
three people whose stories are interwoven by the 
mysterious disappearance of Gideon, and whose 
interactions with him intersect in a certain hotel 
room in Rome at different times. Lilian is Nathans 
lover and the mother of twins June and Gideon (her 
favorite child). June, as Gideons fraternal twin, shares 
a special connection with him. Nathan, a friend of 
the family, was an economist like June and Gideons 
father Arthur, although Nate was not as revered. Lilian, 
June, and Nathan ponder the events leading up to 
the disappearance of Gideon in their respective time 
periods.
In addition to the concurrent time periods of each 
character, the manner in which the play is told also 
makes it unique. The audience learns the history of the 
family and the relationships between characters through 
a series of anecdotes. The language of the play paints 
a clear picture of the story without sacri?cing its poetic 
tone.
The play is very beautifully written, evocative, 
mysterious, director Sheila McKenna said. I wanted to 
avoid sentimentality but still honor passion. I wanted to 
respect the language without being too reverent. I like 
plays that dont have a neat, tidy package for the director 
or the audience. I like that this play asks questions 
about patterns  why this? Why do we choose certain 
memories to hang on to?
The play often reveals threads of patterns to unravel 
mysteries. June and Nathan often reference one of 
Arthurs mantras  that if you look closely enough 
and pay attention, you can ?nd patterns that connect 
people. This play models that idea perfectly, as it is a 
series of chosen memories in which viewers can ?nd 
patterns to understand the story and formulate opinions 
on family, truth, and punishment. Helfrich, who plays 
June, said that she was attracted to Madagascar 
[by] the complications and fallibility of memory. I 
was interested in how different peoples memories 
of the same event dont quite match up. Helfrich, a 
Chatham University and Columbia University graduate 
who has been working with Quantum Theatre for her 
entire professional career, said she connected with her 
character June because her voice is so clear to me. I can 
understand her struggle to connect to her mother.
This production felt the touch of the Tartan  the 
costume designer, Lizzie Donelan, is a current masters 
student in costume design in the College of Fine Arts, 
and the lighting director, C. Todd Brown, is currently an 
assistant teaching professor of lighting in the School of 
Drama. Donelan also worked on costumes for Carnegie 
Mellons productions of The Crucible and Macbett. 
Brown has also designed the lighting for 17 other 
Quantum Theatre productions. Though neither Brown 
nor Donelan attended this performance, their colleagues 
only had glowing reviews of their abilities.
Todd is wonderful, said McKenna, who previously 
acted in a production for which Brown designed the 
lighting. Todd is a master. He has beautiful ideas, and 
hes very sensitive. He brought them beautifully to life.
Helfrich agreed that she enjoyed working with the 
Carnegie Mellon af?liates. She said, [Brown and 
Donelan] were fantastic  so professional. We, the 
actors, had a whole support team behind us making the 
production. She said that connecting with the audience 
was especially important in such an intimate setting. I 
usually ?nd a couple of people whose faces draw me in, 
but I really try to connect with everybody, Helfrich said.
According to set designer Stephanie Mayer-Staley, 
The location instantly spoke to all of us. Mayer-Staley 
especially connected to the former bank because it was 
where she opened her ?rst checking account. We loved 
the antiquity and the architecture, Mayer-Staley said. 
However, the cavernous marble venue also presented 
some problems to the production staff. The biggest 
challenge was acoustics because of the marble. We used 
muslin to dampen the acoustics. I think it adds to the 
feel of the play  like an excavation site  because 
as you are watching the play, youre revealing secrets, 
digging deeper.
Madagascar runs through Feb. 16 at The Carlyle in 
Downtown.
Jenna Bodnar | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Madagascar is a wild, mysterious experience
Concurrent time periods, exotic settings, and family themes converge in modern play
Madagascar portrays family drama in a world of high class and privilege and runs through Feb.16 at the Carlyle 
theater, which used to be a bank. 
Courtesy of Quantum Theatre

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 02.03.1411
Exercise by InternalJoke
internalJoke@zoho.com
Variety Hour - Animals can be Dangerous by Paul Peng
paul1peng@gmail.com
TartanHacks: Red Bull Gives You Wings by Maryyann Landlord
mlandlor@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 02.03.14
A Day in Life by Swetha Kannan
kan_swetha@yahoo.com

---------------------------------------------------

Puzzles
pillbox 02.03.1413
Solutions from Jan. 27
CrosswordIntermediate DifficultyChallenging Difficulty
Maze Puzzle: Challenging DifficultyMad Lib Puzzle
Mad Lib courtesy of www.madglibs.comKakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Start in the middle of the maze and find your way out.Fill in the blanks to create a story. 

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 02.03.14
 1. Reindeer herders
 2. Inactive
 3. Engine
 4. Bad day for Caesar
 5. Shipworm
 6. Actor Keach
 7. Mediterranean juniper
 8. Riding
 9. Impetuous
10. Hebrew liturgical prayer
11. Undiplomatic
12. Indication
13. Poseidons realm
21. A Bobbsey twin 
22. Squirrel stash 
26. Line of seats 
27. Magazine copy
28. Baseball glove
29. Green shade
30. Accent
31. Energy units 
32. Queue before Q
33. Actress Skye 
34. Austerity 
35. Resistance units 
38. ___ Kick Out of You
39. Pitch
40. Performed
45. Bladder 
46. ___ glance
47. Formal order
49. ___ worse than death
50. Strike repeatedly
51. Army leader?
52. U-Haul competitor
53. Exodus author
54. Grave
55. Now ___ me down...
56. Spanish muralist
57. Singer Amos
58. Tokyo, formerly
 1. Boundary
 6. Sign of injury
10. Sibilate
14. Battery terminal
15. Cheerio!
16. French friend
17. Tire (out)
18. Brouhahas
19. Annika Sorenstams org.
20. Forebrain
23. Orch. section
24. Calendar box
25. Animation frame
26. Director Howard
27. Rude
32. Soup with sushi
35. Bendable twig, usually of a willow tree 
36. Rocky hilltop
37. In spite of
41. The loneliest number
42. Full range
43. Frozen treats
44. Contrary
46. Make another point
48. After taxes 
49. Broke bread
50. Average
53. Inadequate 
58. ...___ saw Elba
59. Olive genus 
60. Circular 
61. It may be compact
62. Trading center
63. Berts buddy
64. Greek peak
65. Unit of computer memory 
66. Duck with soft down 
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
You will have a good opportunity to show your talents in 
your career and have success in your relationships with 
colleagues and friends. Dont be shy; assert yourself!
Lucky Flowers: Carnation, Primrose, Alice Flower
taurus
april 20may 20
Be careful and prepare for unexpected troubles.
Lucky Flowers: Orchid, Cactus
gemini
may 21june 21
You will make great achievements in your career. There 
might be some rumors floating, but if youre modest and 
honest, everything will unfold calmly. 
Lucky Flowers: Gladiola, Impatiens, Cockscomb
cancer
june 22july 22
Several things will require your attention. You should care 
more about the physical condition of yourself and family. 
Lucky Flowers: Bleeding Heart Vine, Larkspur
leo
july 23aug. 22 
You will receive a lot of help from others, but make sure not 
to be too negligent of the tiny things. 
Lucky Flowers: Hydrangea, Pitcher Plant, Marguerite
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Your fortunes in all aspects will fluctuate, so they will require 
a great deal of care. When faced with difficulties, you should 
be strong to overcome them all. 
Lucky Flowers: Calla Lily, Jasmine, Marigold
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
If you work in the arts or creation, you will be lucky. But be 
careful not to be emotionally apart from your family due to 
work. 
Lucky Flowers: Rose, Oncidium, Cymbidium  Orchids
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Work hard and keep a low profile to avoid tricks of cruel 
people. You should be careful with your actions and words 
in daily life to be safe.
Lucky Flowers: Snapdragon, Plantain Lily, Nerve Plant
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Be especially independent and achieve your obstacles on 
your own. Patience is virtue. 
Lucky Flowers: Chrysanthemum
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Life will slowly get better and better. When you encounter 
difficulties or frustrations, handle them calmly and they will 
eventually disappear. 
Lucky Flowers: Cineraria
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Be careful dealing with money matters with friends, relatives 
or colleagues. 
Lucky Flowers: Tulip, Evergreen, Peach Blossom
pisces
feb. 19march 20
There will be some ups and downs for you. Life may get 
stressful, but make sure you pay attention to the people 
around you. 
Lucky Flowers: Lily, African Violet, Lily of the Valley
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 02.03.1415
TUESDAY 2.4.14
The Hold Steady. Mr. Smalls Theatre. 8 p.m.
This Brooklyn-based rock and roll band will be bringing 
their unique brand of bar music to Mr. Smalls. Tickets are 
$14.
Kevin Howard. Backstage Bar at Theater Square. 5 p.m.
This Pittsburgh-based jazz keyboardist will be playing a 
free show at the Backstage Bar. More information can be 
found at http://trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
WEDNESDAY 2.5.14
Wednesday Wine Flight: A Taste of Tuscany. Cabaret 
at Theater Square. 6:15 p.m.
This sample of Tuscan wines features a panel discussion, 
light appetizer fare, and dessert and coffee afterward. 
Tickets are $35.75.
Emancipator. Rex Theater. 8 p.m.
Trip-hop producer Douglas Appling will be performing his 
music with a live band. Tickets are $15.
THURSDAY 2.6.14
Joe Nichols. Stage AE. 6 p.m.
The country music star behind the Number One single 
Tequila Makes Her Clothes Fall Off will be bringing a 
roaring good time to Stage AE. Tickets are $25.
Amon Amarth. Mr. Smalls Theatre. 7:30 p.m.
These death metal monsters will be blowing the eardrums 
of everyone at Mr. Smalls. Bring your viking helmet.
EOTO. Rex Theater. 9 p.m.
This live electronic duo forgoes pre-recorded loops in 
favor of creating music live onstage. Tickets are $20.
FRIDAY 2.7.14
The John McIntire Dangerously Live Comedy Talk 
Show. Cabaret at Theater Square. 10:30 p.m.
This comedic look at various political scandals features 
panelists from different sects of the world of government. 
Tickets are $10 and can be purchased at the door.
The Planets - An HD Odyssey. Heinz Hall. 8 p.m.
Manfred Honeck will lead the PSO in a celebration 
of Pittsburgh composers with NASA video footage 
accompanying the performance. Performances continue 
through Sunday, Feb. 9.
SATURDAY 2.8.14
G. Love & Special Sauce. Stage AE. 8 p.m.
These chilled-out rockers will be grooving on some tunes 
at Stage AE. Bring your hemp necklace. Tickets are $20.
OPENING
Shrek the Musical. Byham Theater. Through Feb. 16
Based on the beloved ?lm of the same name, this 
musical-comedy features a score of 19 new songs.
ONGOING
2013 Carnegie International. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Mar. 16
The Carnegie International is the oldest North American 
exhibition of contemporary art from around the globe.
Wicked. Benedum Center. Through Feb. 9
The hit Broadway musical is returning to Pittsburgh. 
Telling the story of The Wizard of Oz from an alternate 
perspective  the Wicked Witchs , the show features 
amazing songs and is not to be missed.
Arena: Remembering the Igloo. 707 Penn Gallery. 
Through Mar. 2
The exhibition presents a visual record of Pittsburghs 
Civic Arenas last months in operation and during its 
yearlong demolition process.
Neverlands. 709 Penn Gallery. Through Feb. 23
Inspired by Peter Pan and fears of death, this art 
collection is one of a kind.
Structures of Time and Space. Wood Street Galleries. 
Through Apr. 6
A collection of large scale light installations from artist 
Erwin Redl.
Company. OReilly Theater. Through Feb. 23
Company is a musical that revolves around Bobby  a 
single man unable to commit fully to a steady relationship, 
let alone marriage  and his friends who try to convince 
him otherwise.
Judge Jackie Justice. Cabaret at Theater Square.
This new musical comedy is based on courtroom 
television shows and features cases that deal with aliens, 
zombies, and more.
Quantum Theater presents Madagascar. The Carlyle. 
Through Feb. 16
Madagascar tells three separate stories of love and loss 
that unfold in the same hotel room across three different 
time periods.
Compiled by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 02.03.14
Sara Remi Fields | Assistant Photo Editor
Four Carnegie Mellon ensembles  the Soundbytes, the Originals, 
Counterpoint, and the Treblemakers  competed with six other 
university a cappella groups in McConomy on Saturday as part of 
the Great Lakes quarter?nal of the International Championship of 
Collegiate A Cappella (ICCA). Top: The Treblemakers perform their set, 
in which junior vocal performance major Bridget McCoy won the best 
sololist award for her performance of Adeles Skyfall. Bottom left: 
First-year vocal performance major Mara Yaffee sings Britney Spearss 
Toxic with all-female group Counterpoint. Bottom right: Junior 
vocal performance major Ethan Crystal performs with the all-male 
Originals, who placed ?rst and will advance to the semi?nals.
ICCA quarter?nals.
