TECH vs. WESTMINSTER 
ATHLETIC FIELD/. 
Saturday, October 9 
Be ThereBack the Team Up
Second Football Dance 
Carnegie.Union
...............October 9..............' -
Come Out and Meet the Team
VOL XV. No. 2.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.OCTOBER 6. 1920.
Fir& General Assembly
A Wonderful Success
President Hamerschlag Presents
Members of Administration and Faculty
Coaches Steffens and Iddings on Program
C. B. Schmidt EledtedThitle Motion Passed
The general assembly last Wednes
day in the Carnegie Wusic Hall was 
one of the largest and most enthusi
astic'. gatherings of the student body 
ever" held; At 10:30 the students 
formed in front of the Union and led 
by. the Tech Band paroded to the 
Mgsic Hall on Forbes Street. The 
line was over a quarter of a mile in 
length with the marchers four abreast
The building was filled almost to 
capacity with the M. M. D. students 
and the upper classmen occuping all 
thefirst floor and most of the first bal
cony while the freshmen were assigned'the gallery. The M. M. D. fresh
men in gala attire of bright and flash
ing colors broke the monotony of the 
scene.
The programof -.the; assembly con
sisted of two parts, one conducted by 
the Administration and faculty and 
the second part by the student govern 
ment. President Hamerschlag presid 
edl and opened the meeting with ai 
invocation by Father Cloakley. He 
next introduced Colonel Church, Presi 
dent of the* Board of Trustees, who 
welcomed the new students to the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology on 
behalf of the trnstees. The direct
ors of the several divisions and other 
administrative officers were then pre
sented to the assembly. Mrs. Laura 
W. L. Scales, the newly appointed 
Dean of Women spoke briefly concer
ning her work. The following limi
ted, themselves to one - minute, Dr. 
Ilirig, recently put in charge of the 
night school courses; Director Breed 
of the Margaret Morrision Division; 
Col. Bingham, Director of the Divis
ion of Applied Psychology; Director 
Mott of Science and Engineering; 
Director Bossange of the Division of 
the-Arts, Director Morns of the Industi.es: and .Col., Brooks ..of. -the .Mill: fcary Department; and Colonel Day 
of the Division of Academic. Studies. 
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, Secretary and 
Comptroller of the institution was 
introduced followed by that of Alan 
Bright the Registrar. President Hamerschlag closed the first part of the 
program with a short address giving 
advice to the entering students and
BACK "TO
DEAR OLDTECH
ART STUDENTS BOLD 
GET-ACQUAINTED DANCE
The first Design School afternoon 
jdance was held Thursday afternoon. 
it 4:30 oclock the girls were lined 
jup in. the main hall. The men then 
jwent down the line introducing themjjselves. In this way the old and new 
students met. Soon the music started, 
Sand such music!!! The Design jazz 
band did its . well known, best to make 
|the initial dance a success. And did 
the Plebes get a taste of Design pep? 
]Ask them!.
BAC KRBTSUDEN
urging all to obtain a vision of their 
work and break the tendency to look 
to things near and be far sighted in 
their selection of work and deeds. 
He then introduced H. G. Nicliol, 
President of the Student Council, the 
highest body of student government.
The members of the administration 
and faculty retired and President 
Nichol took charge and present the 
remainder of the program. . Mr. 
Frank Haaren, Graduate Manager of 
Athletics, was presented to the new 
students and briefly outlined athletic 
conditions at Carnegie Tech and ask
ed for their support and cooperation 
in putting across the present athletic 
program.
Mr. Harold J. Iddings was intro
duced as the new resident coach. Co
ach Iddings was a.teammate of Coach 
Steffens and has been busy the past 
few weeks whipping the freshmen 
football squad into form. He also 
coached the varsity basketball team 
in the winter and later train the 
track team.
iiie oui-mers, a M. M. D. musical 
organization rendered a few jazz se
lections which met with popular favor
Coach Steffens spoke on the foot 
ball situation and asked that the new 
comers maintain the splendid Tech 
traditions of backing their teams to 1 
the utmost.
President Nichol made an appeal 
for the freshmen to try out for some 
of the varied activities, athletic or 
otherwise and enumerated the benefit 
derived from such efforts.
The spirit of the meeting reached 
a climax when the Design School Jazz 
Orchestra livened things up with all 
sorts of peppy jazz and comedy.
Two important business items were 
brought up. Avote was taken from 
the three upper classes for President 
of the Athletic, jmd C... B.Schmidt was elected was elected by 
a large majority.
Members of the Thistle Board 
spoke regarding the publication of 
the 1921. year book and a motion was 
carried to collect the subscription 
price of the Thistle at the Winter 
w'Tistration from students of the in
stitute.
DEBATING SOCIETY TO BE FORMED AT TECH
Arrangements are being made to 
organize a debating society at Tech. 
Students of all four divisions are elig
ible for membership. The backing of 
the faculty was secured and further 
announcements will be made in the 
next issue of the Tartan. Watch for it. 
-------------------
Tartan Lads Succumb to Yale
Bulldog Fierce Attack 44-0
Incessant Fumbling by Tech Backs and the 
Ability of Eli Backfield Men to Run in a 
Broken Field Causes Techs Downfall.
Red Godden and Cy Comfoot
Play Excellent Game for Tech.
OSLGGLQI YF-MFMFOR DIVISION OF ARTS
Design students are kicking because 
they have no handy place to buy sup
plies. Formerly they could buy mate
rials at Margaret Morrison which was 
inconvenient enough but now they 
have to go to the Industry store room. 
As Design students use more of cer
tain commodities, use more of a varie
ty, and need supplies more often than 
most other students it causes a great 
waste of time. Why not a store room 
in the Arts Building?
----------D----------FALL FESTIVAL HELDAS SCHEDULED
MUSICAL TREATS
The Y. W. of the Margaret Morri
son Division gave a tea on Monday 
afternoon for the new girls. The old 
girls (who had them) took their Lit
tle Sisters and saw that they got 
Acquainted. The girls who hadnt 
any Little Sisters found them there.
The committee in charge, under i 
Gladys Bogue, the President of the [ 
Y. W., had prepared a series of stunts 
a race slowed to eight times normal, 
This is the Lake Carnegieand 
dainty refreshments were served. The 
Stringers made their debut of the sea-1 
son here, too.
TECHvs.WSCTMM
The Sophomores of Forbes Hall en
tertained (?) in honor of the New 
Girls on Thursday night. Posters in 
the hall informed the girls that they 
were to come to dinner Thursday 
dressed tacky. A prize was to be 
offered for the tackiest. The New 
Girls marched in after the others had 
all taken their places, and truly were 
a tacky bunch.
The Sophomores requested that no 
silverware except a knife be used dur
ing dinner. Fortunately the menu 
didnt include peas, the sliced toma
toes presented a delicate problem to 
some.
After dinner, with the Sophomores 
in charge the Freshmen performed in 
the living room and tentertained the 
other classes with stunts.----------------
Candidates for Ass.-Manager of 
Track and Cross Country report to 
Graduate Manager Frank Haaren.
Students and members of the fac
ulty will be interested to know that 
Pittsburgh offers many fine opportun
ities for those who love good music to 
hear the worlds best and greatest artists.
The Bortz Popular Concerts offer 
an exceptional opportunity for Tech 
students to hear some of the greatest 
artists at small cost. This is a new 
venture and it is hoped that Mr. Bortz 
will receive. all the encouragement 
that his enterprise merits. Among the 
artists with these popular concerts are 
Arthur Middleton, Mme. Rider Kelsey, 
Max Rosen, Dan Beddoe, Thelma Giv
en, Cecile de Horvath, Bernthaler 
Trio, Chas. Wakefield Cadman, Prin
cess Tsianina, and a number of others as well known.
The Philadelphia Orchestra, at mat
inee performances, has the second bal
cony reserved for students. This or
chestra will have Alexander Bond, 
Levitzki, and other artists not yet an
nounced as soloists.
The Arts Society will offer Mabel 
Garrison, Lada, Letz Quartet, Harold 
Bauer, Jacques Thibaud, Arthur 
Hackett, and Eva Guatier. This So
ciety has also seats for students in 
the second balcony.
Heyn Recitals with Mary Garden, 
Madame 'Louise Homer and Louise 
Homer Jr., Josef Hofman, Harold 
Bauer, Pablo Casals, Jacques Thibaud, 
and others.
Ellis Recitals with Frieda Hemple, 
Mario Laurenti, Bachmaninoff, Julia 
Claussen, Ada Sassoli, and Fritz 
Kreisler.
Further information as to the dates 
of these concerts and recitals and the 
prices of admission will be announced 
t in following issues and on the bulle
tin boards.
Pageant Re-written and Directed by Lawrence Paquin
In spite of the usual annual rain on 
the evening of the Fall Festival the 
affair was a success in every respect. 
The plebes who acted as the chorus 
were at times a little too enthusiastic, 
as might be expected of actors hav
ing but one rehearsal in roles as dif
ficult as theirs, but on the whole they 
entered into the spirit of the thing 
with commendable zeal. The speak
ing parts were very well handled, the 
general opinion being that this year 
was the first in the history of Fall 
Festivals at Tech that speeches of all 
the characters could be heard and 
understood by the audience.
The Indian Play, which has hitherto 
been preceded by a different pageant 
each year, was this time given a role, 
but in a much elaborated form. Four 
new parts, typifying the four Divis
ions of the Institute were added, and 
the symbolism of the play was thus 
made much more broad.  While the 
entertainment was not as long as in 
former years, it was more connected 
and required much less work on the 
part of the students of the School of 
Drama than on previous occasions.
The Pageant was re-written to some 
extent for this years presentation by 
Lawrence Paquin, who also directed it. 
The speaking parts were played by the 
following cast:
Senior Chief .................. Carl B. Reid
Sophomore Chief.........John Williard
Plebe Chief ...............................................
Arts .............................. Russell Collins
Science............................Park McClure
Industries.......................Arthur Lubin
M. M. D.................................Ross Hertz
Messenger .............................. ................
FIRST TRY-OUTS BY
MUSICAL CLUBS
On Sunday afternoon the Musical 
Clubs, one of the best and liveliest or
ganizations in the school, held their 
first try-out of the new season and, 
from the number and quality of men 
who were present, the season has all 
the appearances of being a banner one.
The Mandolin Club had about thirty 
new men from which to pick men to 
fill in about the nucleus formed by 
last years insignia men, and, with the 
able direction of Mr. Sealzo, last 
years Mandolin Club director, a good 
wrrvvf of instrumentalists, .is assured,.-
Forty men appeared for trials for 
membership in the Glee Club and 
among these new men some very good 
material was evident. Mr. Iiodgdon, 
the new director of this years' Glee 
Club, but an old-time Glee Club man, 
was very much pleased with the new 
material.
However, there are a good many 
men about school who should have 
been out Sunday and it. is hoped that 
I these men and all men who could not 
appear for the first try-out will show 
up next Sunday for try-out and first 
rehearsal.
Some very good trips are being 
planned and many a man will be kick
ing himself for not trying out for the 
, Clubs in order to take these muchdesired trips. Among the most looked 
ahead for concerts are those to be giv
en at Cleveland, Buffalo, Youngstown 
and Erie and of course our own Home 
Concert.
With a good nucleus made up of last 
years men, a good showing of new 
men and the support and cooperation 
of the entire student body, a very suc
cessful season is ahead for the dubs.
From the Tartan Correspondent
Yale Bowl. New Haven, Conn. Oct 
2. The Yale. Bulldog was hungry and 
infuriate Saturday afternoon and 
bore down upon the frustrated Tartan 
invadors and torn things, satisfing its 
hunger to a score of 44to 0. Tad 
Jones heavy line and huskie backfield 
which includes Malcolm Aldrich with 
his twisting, grinding attack just out 
side of tackle were unsolvable by the 
Plaid eleven, altho the inability of the 
Tech back to keep their hands on the 
ball gave the Eli men. the three touch downs.
The old Carnegie .Tech fight was 
with the team all the.time,. When it 
came to gameness, doggedness and 
real fighting the Skibos took the hon
ors. Several times Red Godden got 
away with with the ball and made 
sensational runs and altho injured 
continued in. the game until the four* 
th quarter when a line plunge knock
ed him down and the Yale backs tham 
pled him under. In the third quarter 
Al Irwin had to give away toWilliams 
Cy Co\nfort altho badly used up play
ed the entire game and lived up to 
his reputation by. teahing thru the 
line time and time again and nabbed a 
Blue player, headed for Techs ends. 
Sprinkle, who replaced Moon atright 
tackle, played an excellent game.
Among the Techs followers who 
witnessed the game were Fritz OlVinger Techs fullback in 1914, and R. M. 
Wilcox star trackman of 1912. The 
game in detail.
First Quarter.
Tech kicked off, Comforts boot 
going to Callahan on Yales 45-yard 
line. Aldrich kicked out of bounds in 
Techs 20-yard lino. Robertson punted 
to Dil worth on Techs 45-yard line. 
-K<uinan-*n>ado-twci at lc'.t ttvek-ler-Toeh was penalized five yards for offside. 
Webb failed to gain at center. Webb 
made it first down on Techs 25-yard 
line. After a Tech penalty for off
side a line shift failed to gain Yale a 
yard. Tech was penalized again. 
ICemplccr made five at center. He 
gained three at loft tackle. Aldrich 
put the ball on Techs one-yard lino an 
Webb put the ball over for Yales first 
score. Herr kicked the goal. ScoroYalc 7, TcchO.
Herrs kick-off was received by An
derson, who was downed in his tracks.
Yale held Andersons rush. Robertson 
made two at right. Goddens fumble 
was recovered by Webb on Techs 20- 
yard line. Aldrich made a yard at left 
tackle. Tech was offside and penalized.
With the ball on Techs 88-yard line, 
Kernan fumbled, Brumbaugh recover
ing it. Robertson was thrown for a 
five-yard loss. Brumbaugh got it 
back with a line plunge. Robertson 
kicked to ICempton, who wasdowned in 
his tracks by Whitmer. For off-side 
play by Yale, the ball was taken back 
and Eli was penalized for slugging. 
Robertson gained three at left tackle. 
He was thrown for a five-yard loss," 
then punted to Aldrich on Yales 42-, 
yard line. ICempton gained eight 
through the Tech line. ICempton punt-* 
ed to Godden on Techs 8-yard line, 
Robertson running it back two yards. 
Tech punted to their 20-yard line. 
Webb gained five,Kernan made two at 
center. End of first quarter.
ScoreYale 7 Tech 0
Second Quarter.
For offside on first play Tech was 
penalized five yards, putting the ball 
on Techs 8-yard line. Aldrich ran 
the necessary five yards for the sec
ond touchdown. Ilerr failed to kicli 
goal. Herr, on the kick-off, booted 
the ball into Andersons arms on 
Techs 5-yd. line. Anderson ran it to 
the center of the field, a 45-yd. run. 
Robertson failed to gain with the ball 
on the center line and fumbled. Yale 
getting the ball. Godden took Ilerrs 
punt on Techs 22-yard line. Godden 
dropped a punt on the center line, 
Yale covering it. Yale fumbled and 
Tech took the ball on Techs 45-yard 
lino. A punt gave Yale the ball on 
Choir -45-yardline, Aldrloh-pullod -oiVa 25-yard run. Aldrich carried the. 
ball to Toclis 32-yard lino. ICempton 
ran the ball to Techs 25-yard line, 
where he stumbled. On a lino shift 
play Webb failed to gain. Webb then 
went through left tackle for first 
down on Techs 15-yard line. Aldrich 
mane three more through right guard. 
ICornan put the ball on Techs 10-yard 
lino. Aldrich failed to gain at right 
ond.
A forward pans by Aldrich over 
Techs goal failed. The ball was put
(Continued on page 3.)
The first regular meeting this year 
of the Student Council will be held on 
Friday, October 8th. The time and 
place will be announced later. In view 
of the fact that President Hammerschlag wishes to meet with the council 
and talk over the plans for the com
ing year,no newr business will be taken 
up. Students having matters which 
they desire to have the council act up
on will expidite matters by putting 
their ideas in the foim of a letter and 
sending it to Miss Eleanor McCarson, 
M.M.D., who is acting as the tempor
ary secretary.
IpmmminiinnifflniiiiiMiiiiininiiiiiim
Alumni-Student Placement Bureau
Carnegie Institute of Technology
THINKAre you in a Rut?
Do you envy your friend his job?
Can you produce where you are?
Is your location best for health and happiness?
WRITE
Today for a Registration Form, 
position for you.
We may know of a better
REMEMBER
Tech Employers, we want Jobs for Graduates and Students.
ADVISEAll former Tech Students to join the Alumni.
All Alumni to get Active and stand behind your Alma Mater.
Yours for Service,
G. L. TILBROOK, In Charge.
iinnfiui'iaiiai;inii6Hi!in!iBniiDHiii;ii;iiiiimnniiiiiiiiiiiiiimiii!iiii;iiDiiiina:iniiBiiniiniiniiiiiiinui!ininiimiminiiiiiiiiBiiniiiKinuaiiinm8iiiiiiiaiiiiiiiif
WEST DORM ELECTS
A mass meeting of tlio men of the 
West Dormitory (Number 2) was hold 
last Thursday night, September 30th. 
The meeting was held in the East 
Dorm Club Room for the; purpose of 
electing officers. The results of the 
election held that night are given be
low:
PresidentDonald S. Harding.
Vice-PresidentE. G. Dinliskis.
SecretaryJ. L. Niceley.
TreasurerPaul IC. Conrad.
Before the adjournment of the 
meeting floor managers for the ensu
ing quarter were elected. ICotlie was 
selected by the first floor boys. Those 
on the second floor picked Berger and 
Netgzer, believing they needed two 
to keep the lid down, while Dartnell 
was chosen by the third floor men.--------P--------
FIRST BUCKEYE SMOKER
! On Friday evening, October 8, the 
Buckeye Club will hold its first smoker 
this year. For the benefit of the stu
dents who are attending Tech this 
year for the first time, we will explain 
that the Buckeye Club is an organiza
tion of the students who are from 
Ohio. The committee in charge of 
the smoker have been working on it 
for the past two weeks, and there is 
every indication that their efforts will 
result in a very successful smoker. 
The program includes a boxing match, 
music, movies and of course, eats and 
smokes. All Ohio men, especially the 
Plebes, are urged to be present.
This smoker is only the first of a 
number of social events planned for 
the club by the officers. Later in the 
year other smokers and several dances 
iwill be given, however, the coopera
tion of all the Ohio students is neces
sary to insure the success of these 
events.--------fj-------
Newman Club
The first meeting of the year of the 
Newman Club will be held next Sun
day afternoon, Oct. 10, at 3:30 P. M. 
in the Catherdal High School on 
Craig St. across from the Cathedral. 
This club is composed of Catholic stu
dents from Tech and Pitt. Plans for 
the coming year will be made and a 
social programmade out.
INDUSTRIES SOPHS
HOSTS AT SKOKER
The Sophomore class of the Indus
tries School entertained the Plobos of 
that Division last Friday night In the 
Union. Following the usual custom 
this affair was a smoker, with plenty 
to smoke and eat.
Everything was fine except the 
weather which was true December 
style, cold enough to pue some pep 
into the fellows and make them feel 
sociable.
Zimmers jazz orchestra kept all the 
fellows happy and jolly while the 
smokes were served. President Fisher 
of the Sophomore class presented the 
feature singer, starting in this man
ner,, the evenings entertainment. This 
singer proved very interesting to sev
eral of the husky members of the 
Sophomore class, and of course sev
eral plebes fell victims to her winning 
smile.
| Songs by local entertainers were 
then in order and E. S. Oakley and 
Dixie Wood each sang several 
songs. Dixies songs were from the 
sunny south, as usual, and included his 
famous Dixie, noe me.
| Real honest-to-goodness Mack Sennet and Harold Lloyd comic comedies 
held our attention while the jazz 
hounds played the music for Salome 
and everything.
The Sophomore hosts, garbed in 
white overalls, passed out the eats, 
which were cider and doughnuts 
what else could they be in the FallAnd they were eats! The committee 
laid great stress on the fact that they 
had helped brew the drink and that 
its age was less than 24 hours. But 
this committee was not satisfied in 
just helping brew it so they carefully 
carted it back here to school in a 
heavy rain. This probably added 
some of its volume, but anyhow it was 
good.
Everything promised by the posters 
advertising this affair was delivered 
except those interesting tales by the 
Old Guard. These were missed 
very much by all the upper classmen, 
particularly as the usual sto/ies and 
jokes of BillPfouts did not gra.ee the 
evenings program..

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1920.PAGE TWO.
OAKLAND METHODIST 
CHURCHDrama Department Notes
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.Rev. R. EMORY BEETHAM, D. D., Minister 
10:00 Sunday School; Classes for Students.
11:00 Morning Worship.
6:00 Vagabond Club; Supper Luncheon and interesting meeting of young people.
8:00 Evening Service with a time of ocial greeting afterward.
GOOD MUSIC; HELPFUL PREACHING; FRIENDS,
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.few weeks in Lightin but at present 
is uncertain which of three positions 
he will take. He has great hopes of 
selling Betty Jumel, v/hich was pro
duced in this school last winter. How
ard Claney, is playing in The Man 
of the People, now on the road; 
Larry Chrowe, is playinng in Robert
E. Lee now touring in the South. 
Madeline Barr, is to play in Mary 
Roberts Rineharts new show. Howard 
Smith and Betty Alan Smith are both 
very well placed in Sonya, a nevr 
play to open under the famous Ger
man director Reicher; Betty Brown 
is with Marjorit Rambeau in The 
Sign on the Door, on road. Alex 
Wyckoff, well known for his wonder
ful stage settings and his wide knowl
edge of stage decorations, is with 
Robert Law Scenic Studios.
We wish these people all the luck in 
the world in their new adventure and 
look forward to see all of them big 
people some day, and proud of having 
started their training in Carnegie 
Tech.
Lawrence PaquinEditor-In-Chief
Phone Hazel 9422
Plans for the coming dramatic sea
son in the Little Theatre are well 
under way. Rehearsals are already 
in full swing and in a few weeks the 
regular show's will be given. The same 
high HtandaM-tif plays and production 
will continue this year as last. It is 
hoped to have more productions this 
season than in previous years.
A special performance of scenes 
from Robert Brownings Pippa Passes on the occasion of an exhibition 
of lace from the Browning lace school 
at Asolo, in Italy. October 26 is'the 
tentative date. The first perform
ance is for the guests of the exhibi
tion. Later performance will be ar
ranged for faculty and students. The 
production is under the direction of 
Mr. Stevens.
Mr. Wallace starts rehearsals on a 
new Russian play never produced in 
this country before. Mr. Asbame's 
new production is a play called Plots 
and Playwrights, a very funny modern 
burlesque. A show of this kind has 
never been seen on the Tech stage. 
A great deal of interest is being taken 
in it.
Don A. SillerBusiness Manager
Sch.enley 9211
Athletic Editor 
Fred L. Knowlen
EDITORIAL STAFF 
Managing Editor 
William D. Hall
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Str**t 
DR. WYATT BROWN, R*ctor DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant
Sunday Services, 8:00 A. ML, 11:00 A. H, and 8:00 P. M.College Mens Bible Class at 10:00, led by Dr. Calvin.All Students Genuinely Welcomed.
School EditorsPresbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenue 
Graded Sunday School, lOiOO A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M.and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to alL
Helen LewisAssistant Managing Editor 
J. T. Ames
News Editor 
J. K. W. Macalpine
BUSINESS STAFF 
Circulation Manager 
William II. Obenour
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.The Editor-in-Chief ia reBponaible for the policy of thB paper; the Managing Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once. ___________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news item# must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:80 P. M. Fridays.
Tho Tartan Office, Room 152 Arts, will be open as follows:
Wednesday, 3:30-4:30. Thursday 3:30-4:30.
Masets: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 11:A. M. on Sundays and Holy Day. 
Vespers on Sunday at 7:30 P. M.
Pew 58, Middle Aisle, for Tech Stud^otaGrace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister
SERVICES:Sunday School9:45 A. M. Morning Worship11 A. M.Social hour and Luncheon for students, 15c, at 6 oclock.Christian Endeavor7 P. M. Popular Evening Services at 7:45. Sermon for Head and Heart.A cordial welcome to all students.
TRAN8ITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
The drama department is very for
tunate in having two new directors 
added to their faculty. Miss Cecelia 
RadclifTe, a wonderful woman with 
years of stage experience behind her 
come to take charge of the direction 
classes in that department. Miss RadclifFe has been associated with many 
wonderful stars and in fact is one 
herself. No better person could be 
found than Miss Radcli-fFe for that 
department, who have long needed an 
instructor for that kind of work.
Mr. Frederick McConnell comes as 
an assistant to Mr. Wallace in the 
night school. McConnell has been 
associated with Sam Hune and the 
Detroit Little Theatre and n.t the 
Greek Theatre at Berkeley, Calif.
For the second time in the history 
of the Drama Department a group of 
students have won their way into 
Broadway successes and many road 
companies. New York is beginning to 
realize what the Little Tehatre and 
Drama Schools, such as Carnegie 
Tech boasts of, mean to their pro
ductions and .have taken advantage of 
it thus giving many of our last year 
and old students a real opening in 
their productions.
Bishop Dickinson, remembered for 
his Splendid acting'in the  Puppet 
Master and the Admirable Bashville, has secured'the juvenile leads 
in Shavings, which is making a 
huge success1 on its road, tour which 
opened in Boston two weeks ago. 
Our old friend Buchanan, known from 
one end of the school to the other, 
was very fortunate in obtaining sec
ond lead in Sleeping Partners, star
ring Edna Goodrich. Kenneth Thomp
son and Hubbard Kirkpatrick are 
both in Ethel Barrymores Company 
of Declasse, which opened in Buf
falo last week. We hear both are 
doing nicely. HansMuller, well 
known for his female impersonations, 
with Robert1 Iloefleh/ opened last 
Monday night at the Cort Theatre, 
New York in Jim Janv Jims. Hans' 
wants it understood that he is not a 
chorus boy but in a sextette. Little 
Lois Shore, the smallest girl of the 
Drama department of last yoar has 
secured a remarkable position with 
the Neighborhood Players of Tew 
York, opening November 20, in Gals
worthys The Mob, with a contract 
reading for the rest of the season 
Mary Richards, expects to join Wil
liam Faversham, in the Prince anr 
the Pauper now having its tryout i 
Montreal. Ow'en White, played for a
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues
Engineers Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blu Print and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D. 
Minister
Preaching Service 11 and 8.Sunday school at 10.Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to attend our services and learn to know us as tho congregation of "Friendly People". A hearty welcome awaits you.Poel Wardrobe: The wardrobe of 
William Poel, noted London theatric
al producer has been purchased for 
the schaal of drama. The wardrobe 
consists of a fire collection of Eliza
bethan costumes, a complete set of 
costumes for Euripides, Alcestes, 
Everyman, the Bacchi and other 
plays, including some of Miltons 
pices; also sets of curtains and some 
fine jewelry.
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve Syiten 
Capital - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided 
Profit. - - $260,000.90
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
NEAREST TO TECH
| Cor. Craig and Forbes
j FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
SNearest and Best Laundry 
Agency
^'niiiiiiiiHUiiiwKmiflaiiiuiiyiiiuHHiiiiiiiiiiiiinwiiiiiiiiiiHiiiniiiiiiiiiKnRiisiuiiitiiii
The Cynic Says:
A hot water bottle is '-softer, red
der, and warmer than any girls lips.
41
Modern Motive Might
M
OUNTAINS, miles and minutes give 
way before electricity, the magic mo
tive power. Properly applied, it drives giant 
locomotives across the continental divide, 
tows ocean liners through the Panama Canal, 
or propels huge ships.
Through good light, safe signals, and illumin
ated highways, it is making travel better and 
safer and also is increasing the usefulness of 
transportation methods on land, sea or in 
the air.
In short, electricity is revolutionizing trans
portation, making it quicker, safer, more eco
nomical and reliable in all sorts of weather.
And back of this development in electric 
transportation, in generating and transmit
ting apparatus as well as motive mechan
isms, are the co-ordinated scientific, engi
neering and manufacturing resources of the 
General Electric Company, working to the 
end that electricity may betterin'* 
serve mankind.
NOMINATIONS 
SCIENCE SENIORS 
President 
Brandin 
Butts 
Schlumpf 
May 
Nichol 
Evens
Treasurer 
T. McDonald 
W. E. Beckwith A. R. Zelt 
Farrell
Vice-President
Schmidt
Fleishman
Bloom
Hawkins
President 
W atterson 
Franklin 
Bowers
First Vice-PresidentSnyder
Hallum
95-S30D
Secretary
Leete'Aron
Zimmerman
McDade
Treasurer 
M ankle 
Sillers 
Russell 
Bowman 
Thompson 
J. Donnelly 
J. Anderson 
J. C. Greone 
H. Baugh
F. Allison
W. M. Cummings
G. E. Anderson
Treasurer 
Dale Smith 
Moeser
Vice-President 
This office will be fillod by 
the candidate receiving the 
second highest vote.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 6, 1920.THE TARTAN.PAGE THREE.
Investment Vision
is a matter of broad ex
perience and access to 
the sources of authentic 
information.
The securities we offer 
have been rigidly ex
amined and approved 
they are the same we 
ourselves invest in.
Capital and Resources 
$11,124,136,20
Mellon National Bank
8chnly 9120
NATIONAL RESTAURANT 
H. Warner, Prop.
"Oaklands Most Popuar Eating Placo"
114-116-118 Atwood St., Pittsburgh, Pa.
^************************^SKIBO INN
Remodeled and Enlarged
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME, 
FOOD 
Served at be^t prices
CIGARSCANDY
**************************
tGEH HtNiUfTSHpT\ , PENS REPAIRED ^ INRALRW T v FD/at
Best fountain pens, Eversharp Pen
cils, and repairing. Halloween Goods. 
Dance Invitations and Programs. Pen
nants and Pillow Tops. Tech Recog
nition and S^al Pins. Rings. Frater
nity Jewelry, etc.
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP, 
JENKINS ARCADE
PHOTOGRAPHS.A
Developing and Printing.
Price Schedule at P. O.
Leave work to be done at post 
office and call for it when you 
get your mail.
T. Collins
i||ltllMIliVIIIIIU
R. J. Campbell; s
^ is
FOR RENT
Large cheerful furnished room, suit
able for one or two gentlemen, in 
private house, Oakland district. 
Phone between six and seven P. M. 
Schenley 267-R or call at 3214 Elsi
nore Square, near Craft Avenue.
Mrs. Fox was bragging one day 
about the large number of her 
cubs.
How many cubs do you bring 
into the world at one time? she 
asked the LIONESS
Only ONE,"replied the Lioness 
 '* but it's a LION ! 
MURADS COST 20 CENTS 
FOR A BOX OF 10
BUT THEYRE MURADS
MURADS would be lower 
priced if we left out all or part of 
the 100% Turkish tobaccos of the 
purest and best varieties grown  
or if we substituted inferior grades 
of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldnt be MURADS 
theyd only be Foxes!
"Judge for Yourself! "
We call special attention to Murad 20s in Tin Boxes
fytaiau laJ tits Gridi1 Turki Aend Ericen Cjcntu-i in If* World
CARNEGIE TECH RESERVES 
PLAY MONESSEN OCT. 9
The Carnegie Tech Reserves open 
their season next Saturday with Monessen High at Monessen. Coach Iddings has about 50 men on his roll 
and most of these men were at one 
time at the Glencaim Training Camp 
but since then they have been drop
ping off and the rain last week scared 
a lot more away. Coach Iddings wants 
all men who are scared of the rain 
to stay away, but to everybody who 
want to play, come on out.
Monessen High is a new one on 
the Tech Reserve schedule and this 
game is followed by a game with 
Belief on te Academy, which is one of 
the strongest prep schools in this 
section of the country. They meet 
Kiski on October 23 and Mercersburg on October 30. These are hard 
games and the Reserves will have a 
scrappy fight in getting along. No
vember 6 is an open day, then on the 
next Saturday Erie High, an old rival, 
is met at Erie, Pa.
Coach Iddings has not as yet pick
ed his squad, but is giving every
body a trial. Of the backfield men 
Donohue, at quarterback; Don Bissel 
at left half, Smith at right half and 
Rex at fullback have shown up well, 
and will probably make the team. On 
the line there are Berryman and Don 
nelly, ends, Griggs, center; Landis, 
Schwab. Bergland, McHenry, Fritz.
Manager Martin, Junior Industries, 
has made several attempts to sched
ule a game on November 20 as a pre
liminary to the W. & J. Washington 
High, Greensburg, Slippery Rock and 
California Normal have been asked 
to come here for that game, but 
nothing has been heard from them 
yet.--------$--------
TARTAN LADS SUCCUMB
TO YALE BULLDOG 
(Continued fro Page 1.) 
in play on Techs 20-yd. line. Robert
son punted to ICempton, who was 
clowned in the center of the field. 
Kempton was thrown for a two-yard 
loss. Kempton punted over the goal 
line and it was Techs ball on her 20- 
yard line. A forward pass by Buehler, who was substituted for Robert
son, failed. Buehler punted to Kemp
ton, who was thrown by Godden on 
Yales 45-yard line, just as first half 
ended.
Third Quarter.When Yale'came on the field in the 
second half, Munger had been sub
stituted for Cutler. Herr kicked off 
for Yale to Carnegies 5-yard line. 
Anderson ran the ball back to his 37- 
yard line. Buehler fumbled on a fake 
formation. Acsota recovering for 
Yale on Techs 25-yard line. Aldrich 
was thrown for a 4-yard loss. Aldrich 
smashed through to Techs 14-yard 
line for first down. Webb got.two 
yards at left tackle. Aldrich ploughed 
through the Tech line for his second 
touchdown. Herr kicked the goal.
ScoreYale 20, Tech 0.Henderson was substituted for 
Griffin, of Tech. Herr kicked off to 
Anderson, who ran the ball back to his 
34-yard line. Brumbaugh was thrown 
for a 2-yard loss. Tech fumbled and 
Yale recovered on the Tech 31-yard line. Murphy replaced Kempton for 
Yale. Webb got a yard at center. On 
fake forward pass formation Aldrich 
carried the ball around Tech's left 
end to the 14-yal-d line. Yale was 
penalized for holding, putting the ball 
on Techs 22-yard line. Kernan gain
ed 2 yards at center. A forward pass, 
Murphy to Aldrich, put the ball on 
Techs 8-yard line. Godden was 
slightly injured in the tackle and time 
was taken out. Williams replaced Ir
win. Murphy placed a pretty drop 
kick over the bar.ScoreYale 23, Tech 0.Into went in for Herr. Before Mur
phy could kick off time was taken out 
until a Yale bulldog was chased off 
the field. Into kicked off to Godden 
on his 10-yard line, who fumbled, but 
recovered. Anderson punted out of 
bounds on Techs 40-yard line. Kelly 
went in for Aldrich, Stum for Webb. 
Kelly got three yards through center. 
Another fake kick formation netted 
Yale three yards. Murphy failed on 
an attempted drop kick from his 35- 
yard line. Godden was thrown for a 
5-yard loss when he fumbled. Godden 
runted to Murphy in the center of 
the field, where he was thrown by 
Sprinkle. Murphy got three yards 
through center. Sturn got two more 
in same spot. Sturn ran through the 
Tech line for 10 yards. Calhoun went 
in for Walker. Peterson went in for 
Kernan. Peterson gained three 
through right tackle. Kelly got three 
more. Sturn made it. first down on 
Techs 22-yard line. Sturn went 
through center for five yards. Kelly 
q;ot three more through the same 
spot, as the third quarter ended with 
the ball on Techs 14-yard line. CyH 
Comfort, the Harrisburg Tech man, 
was badly used up in the same play 
in which Godden was injured. They 
both continued in the game, however.
ScoreYale 23, Tech 0.
Athletic^ Comments
COACH WALTER STEFFENS TELLS US
I never in my life coached or played In a game of football, like the one 
I saw Saturday afternoon between Carnegie Tach and Yale. Tho team held 
Yale very nicely during the first half and Yale's two touchdowns just about 
represent the difference in strength. I tried several men in my backfield at 
different times and every one of them committed at least one fumble. Mostly 
durllig the last two periods of play. It was just one fumble after another, 
one of those things, 1 cannot explain, for my team is not one given to fum
bling, as our practice periods have demonstrated to my complete satisfaction, 
I counted nine fumbles in succession during the last two periods, all of 
them within our own 20-yard line territory. We handed Yale three touch
downs on a silver platter. I am not offering this as an alibi, it is simply a 
statement of facts. The work of my line was highly satisfactory, but the 
fumbling committed by the backfield took all the heart, owt of the game.
HOW ABOUT A HOCKEY TEAM?
There were rumors of a hockey last yearan effort was made to revive 
an interest in one of Techs favorite sports of its younger daysand several 
men did get together and practice, but they started late and no game could 
be scheduled. This year, with the new grip that Tech has taken hold of 
athletics a coach could be secured and games scheduled. Schmertz, Huff, 
Jewel, Wilson, Martin and Godden are the men who started the hockey 
movement last year and they anticipate better results this year. Duquesne 
Gardens is an ideal place for the games and arrangements, we think, could 
be made with the management to play our game there. By starting now and 
with the proper official support, a hockey team wili be  realization at Tech this year.
GOOD SPORTSMANSHIPP 
On the eve of the Tech-Yale game, Denton Moon, Varsity man from 
last year, who was picked to fill the right tcakle berth of this years team 
packed up his old kit bag, bid Carnegie Tech a silent farewell, and bought a 
ticket to Grove City. Moon had been at the training camp since September 
13, and altho everybody registered on Monday, September 27, Moon failed to register.
HUGH SPRINKLE.
As Moon stepped out, another man stepped in. Hugh Sprinkle is the 
new man and judging from his performance in the Yale game, Moon's de
parture will soon be forgotten. Sprinkle, called Heavy by those who know 
him well, is an old army friend of Vet Williams, both serving together in the 
training schools and at Kellys field. Sprinkle comes from Webb City, Mo., 
and spent his freshmen year at the University of Missouri and is now reg
istered as sophomore in the Electrical Engineering department of the Division of Science.
AS BRIGGS MIGHT SHOW IT
When youre playing the grand old college game of football and the 
fellows and girls are there to see playmaybe some folks from the home 
townand you just fight and fight for all youre worth, but still the other 
team is leading; youre badly battered. Your neck is twisted, a shoulder out 
of place, a broken nose, a charley-horse leg, and a bruised knee, with a funfeeling in the stomach; youre ready to quit, drop right down, when that band 
hits up the school swing and girls and fellows holler like mad for you to 
win, and you know that only little girl in the world is there prayin for you 
to winyou brace a bit, your chest swelled an inch or so, and your heart 
thumps like thunder and then of a sudden youre down on the line, and with 
the snap of the ball, you hit the other guy harder than ever. >int it Grand an Glorious Feeling? Ill say it is.
Fourth Quarter.
On the first play Peterson failed to 
gain and Yale was penalized 15 yards 
for holding. Murphvs forward pass 
I to Peterson failed. Murphy tried anI o*her drop kick, which went wild and
---------  ~ the ball was put in plav by Tech on
Candidates for Ass-Manager of her 20-yard line. Quail went in for 
Football report to Cy Buzicker or | Dickerman. Buehler punted out of 
Graduate Manager Frank Haaren. bounds on Yales 40-yard line. Shevlin
replaced Munger. Peterson gained '1 
yards; Peterson punted to Buehler on 
his 20-yard line and was thrown for 
a 5-yard loss. A bad pass by the 
Tech center slipped through Ander
sons hands and rolled behind the goal 
line and McKay fell on it for a touch
down. Peterson kicked the goal.
ScoreYale 30, Tech 0.
Galvin went in for Callahan and 
Cruikshank for Acosta. Peterson, 
kicked to Godden on Techs 20-yard 
line. Andersons forward pass was in
tercepted by Quail, who carried the 
ball to Techs 10-yard line. Bean 
went in for Into. Godden was hurt 
in the play and time was called. The 
Plaid captain was assisted from the 
field. Wierman replaced him. OBrien 
went in for McKay. Yale got 2 yards through center. Kelly got two more 
at right tackle. Kelly put the ball on 
Techs 1-yard line. Tech held Peter
sons rush but Carnegie was off-side 
and it was Yales ball on Techs 1- 
yard line. Sturn went over on first 
play for a touchdown. Peterson kick
ed goal.
ScoreYale 37, Tech 0.
Murphy kicked off behind Techs 
goal. The ball was put in play on 
Techs 20-yard line. Weirman made 
2 yards. On the next play Brumbaugh 
fumbled and Quail recovered for Yale. 
Kelly gained 4 yards at right tackle. 
Eagan went in for Shevlin. Sturn 
gained 2 at center, but Yale lost the 
ball on downs on Techs 8-yard line. 
Wierman skirted left end for 2 yards. 
Buehler punted to Murphy who 
caught the ball in the center of the 
field and ran it back 10 yards. A forward pass, Murphy to Peterson, 
failed. Murphy ran the ball 40 yards 
for a touchdown, being tackled by 
Wierman as he crossed the line. 
Peterson kicked the goal.
ScoreYale 44. Tech 0.
Neville went in for Murphy. Ander
son kicked off to Neville who ran the 
ball to Yales 42-yard line. Neville 
punted, the ball rolling out of bounds 
on Techs 1-yard line. Sprinkle punt
ed to Neville, who ran the ball to 
Techs 24-yard line. Peterson made 4 
at center. Quail gained 2 at Techs 
left tackle. Neville made it first down 
Techs 18-yard line just as the 
game ended.ScoreYale 44, Tech 0.
Carnegie Tech. Yale.
Wittmer .............I.E..................... Cutler
Comfort ..............L.T............... Dickens
Griffith ...............L.G.................. Acosta
Irwin.....................C..Callahan (Cap.)
Rosenbloom . ...R.G................... Herr.
FOOTBALL SCHEDULE FOR
THE CARNEGIE TECH 
RESERVES.
Oct. 9  Monessen High  
There.Oct. 16Bellefonte Academy 
There.
Oct. 23KiskiThere.
Oct. 30Mercersburg
There.
Nov. 6Open.
Nov. 13ErieThere.
Nor. 20Open.
Walter Steffens Makes
Great Record at Chicago
Steffens Receives Ball on Kickoff Behind 
His Goal and Runs 105 Yards Thru Entire 
Wisconsin Team for a Touchdown.
The most important man around 
school during the fall is the football 
coach, and Tech is fortunate this 
year in having Walter Steffens back 
on the job for the seventh time. What
ever score in victories and defeats 
made by the team this year, Tech un
dergraduates are confident they will 
be represented by the best team pos
sible with the material at hand.
Coach Steffens record in football 
goes back thirteen years to . his play
ing day's at the University of Chicago, 
where he was under the careful tutilage of Alonzo Stagg, who for many 
years has been the biggest man in 
Western football.
Steffens entered school"when Eckersall was calling signals for the Ma
roons, and displaying the brand of 
football that has connected his name 
ever since with the quarterback posi
tion. Eckersall graduated in the 
spring of 1907 and left a big vacancy 
on the team to be filled the next fall. 
After Steffens first game all doubt 
as to his ability to take Eckersalls 
place was dispelled, and he worked 
at quarter so brilliantly for two years 
that he forever linked his name with 
Eckersalls as one of two greatest 
quarterbacks the game has produced.
Many stories of the wonderful 
plays he participated in are still told 
around Chicago, whenever old foot 
ball games are talked over. In .1908 
Wisconsin and Chicago met near the 
end of the season in the game which 
would decide the Western Conference 
championship. Both teams had gone 
thru the season without a defeat and 
entered the game at even money. Chi
cago won the toss up and choose to 
receive. Wisconsins kick-off came 
sailing down the field well behind 
Chicagos goal line where Steffensri ir ^ | ti nf -rrc wi w * 
caught it and started down the field. 
He ran the first twenty-five yards be
hind his interference, then broke out 
in front and passed thru the entire 
Wisconsin team for a touchdown. The 
spirit was taken out o.t; Wisconsin and Chicago won 13 to 7.
Steffens spent two years after his 
graduation as assistant to Coach 
Stagg where he learned that famous 
mentors method of moulding a team 
into shape. Steffens has never for
gotten he is a' product of the West 
and his teams have always been char
acterized by their open style of play. 
He has always been successful in de
veloping fast open-field running 
backs. Early and Phil Marshall both 
owe a lot to StelVens teaching.
Since his graduation Steffens has 
made Chicago his home, except for 
the time he spends in Pittsburgh 
coaching. There he has been in city 
positions for some years, and is an 
alderman and member of the city 
council.
Coach Steffens came to Tech in 
1914, where he was given a bunch of 
green material to develop into a foot
ball machine. This has been his prob
lem every year. The majority of 
football men find the courses at Tech 
very hard and no consistent effort has 
been made heretofore to help them 
with the studies and keep them in 
school. With the new Athletic Asso
ciation in charge a groat change in 
this respect is hoped for.
Last year after the close of the 
football season and plans for this 
year were being made, ono idea was 
uppermost in every ones mind, which 
was "get Steffens back. They got 
him back for us and we hope he will 
be coaching Tech for another seven 
years to come.
Sprinkle..............R.T................ Walker
McClean ..........R.E............. Dilwortb
Anderson .............Q........... Kempton
Robertson . ...L.H................ AldrichGodden (Capt.) R.H..  .......  Kernan
Brumbaugh ........F.  ............ W ebberi
Score:
Yale .7 ft 10 2144
Tech ....0 0 0 00
TouchdownsWebb, ' Aldrich, 2 
McKay, Sturn, Murphy.
Goals from touchdownHerr, 3 
Peterson, 2.
Field GoalMurphy, 1.
SubstitutionsYale: Walker .for
Dilworth McKay for Walker, Munger 
for Cutler, Murphy for Kempton, Into 
for Herr. Kelly for Aldrich, Sturn for 
Webb, Calhoun for. Walker, Peterson 
for Munger, Galvin for Callahan,
lllHMIillllllllllllM
Candidates for Cross Country ; j 
f| must report to Coach {iddings j i 
f; at the gym jit <1:30 today,  j 
fi Thursday and ^Friday.
Cruikshank for Acosta, Bean for Into, 
OBrien for McKay, Neville for Mur
phy, Eagan for Shevlin. Tech: 
Buehler for Robertson, Henderson for 
Griffin, Ross for Anderson, Griffin 
for Henderson, Weirman for Godden, 
Williams for Irwin.
RefereeNate Tufts, of Brown.
UmpireTom Thorpe, of Colum
bia.
Field JudgeW. J. Crowell, of 
Swarthmore.
Head LinesmanG. N. Bankart, of 
Dartmouth.
Time of Periods12 minute.
Attendance10,000.
.............. -3----^
g Officers of the Administraj 
g tion, Faculty, Office Force and 1 
j| others connected with the Instijj 
% tute may obtain Season Foot|| 
j ball Tickets at the Cashiers ofgj 
g fice. Price $5.00.
50Capt Red Godden got away with 
only a wrenched arm in Saturday's 
game.
---------33----------
Loft and Found
LOST
An old fashioned, medium sized, oval 
top, trunk, with heavy strap. This 
trunk was probably delivered to the 
wrong address. Anyone who can 
give any information concerning it 
please notify A. W. Smith, 3504 Fifth 
Ave., Schenley 9229.
A loose leaf note book picked up in 
beanery. Kindly return to Dean Tarbellls office or to P. D. Good the 
owner.* * #
A black wallet containing registra 
tioncard and football tickets, also i 
sum of money. Please return to 
Dean Tarbell's office and receive re
ward.
RULES OF TENNIS CLUB.
1. The six "Margaret Morrison 
courts shall be under the sole super
vision of the Tennis Club Committee.
2. The two courts north of Indus
tries shall be reserved for the Faculty 
and Administration only. No students 
are permitted to use thoso courts.
3. Membership cards or keys are 
not transferable. Membership lists 
will be filed in the office of the Cash
ier and th Dean of Men and will also 
bo posted at the court or other suit
able place.
4. Members must show member
ship cards when requested to do so by 
committoo or caretaker.
5. Courts must not bo used until 
rolled after a rain.
G. Courts which are unmarked 
must not be played upon until mark
ed.7. Regulation spring hool shoes 
must be used. In no case may any
one play in street shoos.
8. All tools, marker, lime, roller,
otc., must be returned to their proper
places after they have sorved their 
purpose. Nets must be taken in after 
play is finished.
9. The proper gates only will be
used for entrance and exit to the
courts.10. Every member is a watchman 
at all times of the property entrusted 
to the club and violation of rules and 
by-laws must be promptly reported to 
the committee.
11. Violation of rules or by-laws 
may result in suspension or expul
sion from the club.TENNIS COMMITTEE.
By-Laws.
NameThe name of this organiza
tion shall be the Tennis Club of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
MembershipOnly students of Car
negie Institute of Technology are 
eligible for membership in this club.
CourtsThe six courts known a 
the Margaret Morrison Courts are 
for club use. exclusively. The In 
dustries Courts are reserved for Ad 
ministration and Faculty.
DuesThe dues for the school year 
shall be $2. The membership fee is 
payable now to A. N. Heyl, Cashier, 
who will issue a membership card. 
Upon receipt of $1.00 keys will be is
sued to members; money to be re
funded on return of keys.
Purpose of ClubTo promote Ten
nis at Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy; to furnish a means of improving 
and maintaining the courts and prop
erty entrusted to the club. It is the 
duty of every member as a student of 
Tech to see that the club property is 
not damaged or misused and to re
port promptly to the committee or 
Dean of Men any person damaging 
property of the club. The spirit of
preservation of Tech property should 
grow from tho club to the ontiro stu
dent body and portain to everything 
on tho campus. Mako Tech's Campus 
the best in Pennsylvania.
The CommitteeConsists of the 
following: F. W. Moses, Supervisor; 
W. Ravonscroft, Colonel Brooks, E, 
Esquorro, G. L. Tilbroolc (temporar
ily).Tho CommitteeShall have charge 
of property ontrusted to club and ar
range a suitable place for tools undor 
lock and lcoy. Shall determine when 
courts arc in condition for play and 
have displayed a suitablo slgna.
Shall pass judgment on members 
who have violated by-laws or rules of 
the club.Shall determine how funds aro to 
bo spent to best advantage.
Shall promote the spirit of better
ing and maintaining Tech's property 
rather than that of Indifference and 
destruction.
Shall make ahd rev iso rules por
tioning to courts and play thoroon.
Shall soo that only members use 
courts, oxcept members visitors, and 
only mombors havo keys to courts.
FundsTho funds of the club shall 
be collected by Cashier, and used only 
for tennis club indebtedness as deter
mined by tho committee and con
troller of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology. Suitable arrangement will be 
made to refund memberdship fees to 
men on varsity tennis squad including 
players, Manager and Assistant Man
ager as named by Tennis Coach.----------------
BITS O PLAID.
We lost the first one.
The Eli men might have acknowl
edged our gift of three touchdowns.
A little glue on the Tech football 
might help the team.The team reports an excellent trip 
and admired the new skirts in New 
York.A record-breaker attendance 10,000 
for Yales opening game.Whittmar played his same old game 
for Tech.Dent Moon says he will not play 
football this fall.Anyhow Sprinkle -can fill his shoes.
Capt. Callahan, 210 pounds played 
against A1 Irwin 150 pounds at the 
center position.
But A1 stuck until they knocked 
him out.Malcolm Aldrich has something to 
say to Harvard this fall.
The Reserves come into the lime
light next Saturday.
And they have a tough schedule 
ahead of them.
Westminster, Tech's first victim of 
the season, Oct. 9.
And then wed like to see Grove 
City play.
umilili,:iiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifliiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH^
FRESHMEN!!
The printer sends word that the Students' Handbook, is off the 
pres and has been shipped. These books better known as the Plebe 
Bible will be distributed at ten cents a copy. All freshmen are urged 
to obtain their copy as soon as they are received. The Bible con
tains information concerning all the activities and student organiza
tion about nchool as well as the words of the yells and songs.
UllllllllllllllllllllllllUillllllilllllllllilillJIliillllllllililllllllllilUll!iiuuiuuuiaiuuuuiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiuiD

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOUR.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1920.
rENUS
PENCILS
T?OK ilio student or prof., Jtlio Bupcrb VENUS outrival nil for pcrfcct pencil work. 17 black degree und 3 copying.
American Lead Pencil Co.
zio I'lfthAvo. Jw/WNew York
FEATURING
becausc, down to the smallest 
detail, they arc the 
BEST MADE
Tin furrt il i/lllnt ijiinlll/ /mill In the worldWe also have 
Stetson, Trimble and 
Connctt Hats 
$5 to $20
Jageman & Spickert!
6121 Penn Avc. East End
EIFFEL TOWER
htcst of the famous buildings of the world 
ore equipped with Otis Elevators
THE SPIRIT OF HOME
The Oakland Community House is maintained by 
the Oakland Methodist Church for the purpose of 
giving n homelike welcome to every person but espe
cially to the student nway from home. Here is a 
chance to read or study, to rest or play, and always 
to find friends.
3904 FORBES ST.
' o: 41* ***:: :: ::::
TECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CANT BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
DO YOU DANCE?
BAMOINa LIMON
JAOIUII 
CfllAIQ ANS POItBIt
OLAM AND PfirVAT*
MU PMON1
; ------------- IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO. I
Broad and Sheridan Ave,
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged *
il;.***********-**..-***#****-*-***'****'?;-*********.**-*
BATTERY
Ex de
SERVICE
Nomination Committee.rho President announced that thr 
annual election of officers would tale 
place at the October meeting anr' 
named Mr. ITAsness, Chairman; Mrs 
Green and Mr. Brenot as a commi4 
too on nominations to report at the 
next meeting.
Next. Meeting.
To be held at ICoy^tono Buildin<>: 
Monday, October 11, 1020, at 8:00 
P. M.
Meeting adjlurned 0:45 P. M.
KATHRYN HAAG, Socy.------O..................-SOMETHING YOU SHOULD 
KNOW.
II has been brought to the atten
tion of the Alumni office by the Reg
istrar that a considerable number of 
degree certificates, diplomas, and spe
cial certificates are still in his hands 
eft by alumni who have graduated, 
some as early as 1908. This is proba
bly an oversight on the part of the 
graduates.
If you have never gotten your 
sheepskin, write at once.
A list of alumni (ae) whose certifi
cates and diplomas still remain in the 
Cashiers office will be published.----------D----------TO MARGARET MORRISON 
ALUMNI
The College Club of Pittsburgh has 
recognized, as eligible for member
ship, graduates of the old three-year 
course in Margaret Morrison Divi
sion, provided the faculty certifies in 
each case that the candidate could be 
given two years of advanced standing 
toward a B. S. degree.
The College Club has opened its 
new house at 143 North Craig streetand will be glad to welcome any new 
members from the Margaret Morri
son Alumni.
JOIN SOME TECH CLAN!
To the Clans
This is Clan Time. Get busy and 
start the winter season right. Ar
range a clan party to take in some 
Tech game this year. Follow every 
game through the columns of the 
Tartan. Heres the schedule:
Oct. 0Westminster at Pittsburgh.
Oct. 1(5 Grove City at Pittsburgh
Oct. 28Univ. of Cincinnati at 
Pittsburgh.
Oct. 80 Lehigh at S. Bethlehem.
Nov. ( -Allegheny at Pittsburgh.
Nov. 18Bethany at Wheeling.
Nov. 20 W. & .1. at Pittsburgh.
Back up the team and Athletic As
sociation.
Forget organization and constitu
tions at clan functions and make the 
meeting social events that will be 
talked about and remembered. W.e 
want to be advance agent for pll clan 
affairs. Send in your meeting or func: OAKLAND EXPRESS AND
y Boll Phonco 878 & 9169 Schenloy g 
P. & A. 1092-R
r; I227 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.f. IHousehold Goodn Moved, Stored, t 
Packed and Shipped
Jlllll!ll!llll!ll!l!lll!!lllllllllllli
Marked Style Changes 
in Mens Clothes for Fall
Style changes for Fall as correctly 
interpreted by Society Brand Clothes 
will be heartily welcomed by under
graduates who pay particular heed to 
their appearance.
The long vent in the coat has gone. 
Vents in modish suits this Fall will be 
noticeably shorter.
Body contours have changed. The 
high waist line and the pinched-in 
effect have gone.
Coats hang with greater fullness 
from the shoulder. The result is a 
pleasing effect of unusual ease and 
smartness.
These are the distinctive style 
features that mark this seasons 
models in. Society Brand Clothes.
WITH THE VARIED GRADES OF CLOTHING FLOODING THE MARKET. LOOK 
FOR THE LABEL AS YOUR GUIDE 
ALFRED DECKER &. COHN, Makers SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES. Limited, for Canada
CHICAGO NEW YORK MONTREAL
STYLE HEADQUARTERS
where >orifty Brand (Elothes aresold
BOGGS & BUHL
501 FEDERAL ST., N. S.
ATTENTION STUDENTS
Lab. Aprons - - $1.00 
Laundry Bags - $1.85
TECII STATIONERY and MEMORY BOOKS Banners, Pillows, Pennants, 
CANDY, SODA, LUNCH, CIGARS
FORBES QUALITY SHOP
3812 I1 OR Bit S STREET, COR. BOQUET
^ -x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-X-x-x-x-xi -x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-k
u tEt tEt tEt tCt rdy rdy ,Oy tCc ,dr rdy rdy yOy cOc ,Oy ,Oy rdo cOy cOy cOc cOc cOc cOc cOc cOc cOc cOc cOc cOc cOc bSc cOc cOc cOc cOc cOc cOc cOc rdc cOc cOc cOc cOc cOc rde 9Sc bSc
HARRYS
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Beit Meals at reasonable prices
C. I. T. CLANS.
Prospective Students from 
Harrisburg.
It was reported that at least 
men would enter Tech this year fr< 
Harrisburg.Voted that the officers draft a let
ter to give to each man showing, the 
interest of the members of the clan 
in them and also referring them to 
Mr. John Todd, of the Division of 
Arts, and P. I). Good, of the Division 
of Industries, in the interest of the 
Harrisburg Club.TOR YOUNG MEN AND MEN WHO STAY YOUNG
Harrisburg Club.
Reported by the president that a 
Harrisburg Club was formed at Tech 
before the close of the school year.
Voted to recognize the members of 
this Club as undergraduate members 
of the Harrisburg Clan and to keep 
in touch with their activities.
Minute's of the Harrisburg Clan.
The Harrisburg Clan of the Car
negie Alumni Federation, held its first 
meeting after the summer vacation, 
September 18, 1020, in the Keystone 
Building. The following' persons 
were present: Messrs. Hartman, Lawrie, Lappley, Hasness, Brenot, Peters, 
Todd, undergraduate member, Klugh 
and Landis* to enter Tech this fail, 
Miss 1-Iaag.
Mr. Hailman gave a brief .review 
of the year's activities.
State Federation of Tcch Clubs.
The President suggested the organ
ization of. a State Federation of . the 
Tech clans, with-Harrisburg, the capi
tal city, as.headquarters, to bring into 
closer relationship the clans now in 
existence, and to aid in the organiza
tion of clans throughout the State. 
The necessity was pointed out of hav
ing a strong State organization to 
wick the various alumni activities.
Voted to bring the matter to the 
attention of the clans located, at Phil
adelphia, Pittsburgh, Erie and Johns
town and to suggest that a prelimi
nary. meeting be held at Harrisburg 
at the time of the Tech-Lehigh game, 
October 20 or 30, with representa
tives of the clans of the Stable present. 
The officers were authorized to make 
the neccssary arrangements.
Athletic Scholarship.
Communications were read from 
Mr. Frank C. Haaren, Alumni Manadent from the Harrisburg District.
Voted that an athletic scholarship 
covering the tuition fees, or $125 be 
granted this year to he applied as the 
Granduate Manager sees fit. Mr. Lawrie was named as chairman of a com
mittee to canvass the members of the 
clan for contributions, with the power 
to name two associate committee 
members. Miss Haag and Mr. Bushong were named.
Scholastic Recognition for Athletes.
It was voted to recommend that 
some action be taken by.the authori
ties of the school that men who make 
the first and second teams be 
some scholastic consideration.
tion noticotf so that we receive them 
Friday for the issue of the following 
Wednesday. Personal notes as well 
as minutes of the Clan meetings are 
most welcome.
Every clan member should secure 
at least one new alumni member, or 
get some old alumni member in good 
standing again. Remember all alum
ni and 'former students, who have 
been in the Institution a year, are 
eligible.------------------
PAY YAUR 1921 ALUMNI DUES 
NOW.
Help the cost and make the work 
of collection easy.
Dig up that statement and send in 
a check to be in good standing until 
June 30, 1921.
Do not forget a fifty dollar liberty 
bond pays your dues for life.
Send in that odd Fifty.
In order to take advantage of the 
Tartan offer, dues must be paid by 
December 1.
All Alumni members are invited to 
make use of the Alumnus letter box. 
Write your views on Administration 
of this School, Alumni, or any other 
interesting question.----------------
ELECTION ANNOUNCEMENT 
Alumni Association 
Division of Science and Engineering.
President ........... ...R. S. Wilson, 15
1st Vive-Pres................ M. L. Orr, 17
2nd Vice-Pres..............E. S. Rauh, 15
Sec.-Treas. ...........G. L. Tilbrook, 15
Board.
F. Gaston, 09; Thor Engstrom, S; 
Nuttall, 19; F. T. Boyd, 15; 
Doherty, S; . F. Hirsch, 20.----------V---------
OF GRADUATES. One at Once! 11 
Only a limited number of copies 
left and no new issue until 1922. 
Write G. L. Tilbrook, Alumni Execu
tive Secretary, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. Price .$1.00.
TmLHE EIFFEL TOH'EliJihs its head nearly 
one thousand feet above the city of Paris. Count
less people have made the trip to the top to see the 
glory that was, and is and always shall beParis.
Millions have seen the Eiffel Tower! Many more 
millions have read of it, yet comparatively few 
know that thisthe tallest structure in the world 
is served by Otis Elevators.
It could hardly be otherwise. The name Oris 
epitomizes the very beginnings and also the latest, 
greatest achievements in vertical transportation.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of the World
FORBES BUILDING BARBER SHOP 
John Clcoro, Prop.
Facial and Scalp Manage and Chlldron'i 
Hair Cutting Our Spoclaltlon
3017 Forbon Street, Oakland 
Phono Schonloy 9233 Plttnburgh, Pa.
