The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 1^ January 29, 1985.
eace groups plan fight against SEI
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
l to The Tartan
A backlash by peace groups to the January 
igning of the Software Engineering Intute (SEI) contract between Carnegie - 
lion and the Department of Defense 
0D) is taking place. According to disarment activist Molly Rush of the River CiNon-violent Resistance Campaign, the 
oice of actions against SEI range from 
logue with administrators to peace vigils 
d civil disobedience.
We re going to see what the [CMU] Peace 
iance and the Computer Professionals for 
ial Responsibility plan to do before we 
ke a decision, said Rush.
Regardless of the action decided upon, 
h predicted that CMU faculty, staff, and 
dents will be recruited to help fight SEI.
Although the Alliance has arranged to 
meet with President Richard Cyert to discuss 
SEI, Rush noted that more extreme actions 
wouldnt be ruled out: Ours is a non-violent 
campaign, and we wont rule out the 
possibility of civil disobedience as a form of 
nonviolence.
Rush was one of the Plowshares 8, a group 
of activists who dented, and poured human 
blood on, two nuclear weapons nose cones 
at a General Electric plant in King of 
Prussia, Pennsylvania in 1980.
The only negative response to the $103 
million contract has been a petition affixed 
with over 550 signatures. The petition was 
submitted to Provost Angel Jordan in 
December and some editorials in on-campus 
and off-campus publications. Jordan 
responded to the petition im The Tartan  two
weeks ago.
Rush feels that the software tools made at 
SEI, once given to a defense contractor who 
maintains a nuclear weapons system, can in
crease the likelihood of nuclear war: Coor
dination is the main thing in a first strike, 
she said. It has to be done on split second 
timing in order to knock out all Soviet 
retaliatory capabilities. . That requires 
sophisticated equipment. SEI products 
could give this capability.
Rush agreed that [SEI] will bring more 
jobs to Pittsburgh, but said,  It is the least 
efficient way to find jobs. Do we want a city 
dependent on weapons contracts and the ups 
and downs of the arms race? She added, 
Its very alienating kind of work.
GSIA Adjunct Professor Tom Kerr is con
cerned with CMU agreeing to allow DoD
pre-publication review rights. He noted that 
although academics can publish their work 
over DoD objections, doing so might not en
danger their intellectual freedom, but might 
affect their lives in other negative ways: Peo
ple want raises, people want tenure, people 
want to be smiled at during lunch.
What is the purpose of the university? 
he added. To educate. To do research, to 
disseminate knowledge for everyone. To have 
restrictions is an amendment of the purpose 
of a university.
I know [the administration] are good 
people, said Molly Rush, I just dont think 
they know what theyre doing.
SEI will be discussed at the CMU Peace 
Alliance meeting tomorrow, January 30, at 
5 p.m. in Skibo room 45.
nsafe streets pose 
mat to students
MOHAN EMBAR
I to The Tartan
lthc-ugh Carnegie-Mellon has a relativelf-contained campus, it is located near 
e very busy streets. Both Forbes Avenue 
Fifth Avenue are major arterial roads 
carrying vehicle and bus traffic 
back and forth from Downtown 
Pittsburgh to Squirrel Hill and 
Shadyside. Tech Street and 
rgaret Morrison Street link Forbes and 
enley Road, allowing cars to travel past 
Hill Dorms, Donner Hall, the Gymum and the Graduate School of In
trial Administration. Morewood Avenue 
nects Forbes and Fifth and heavy traffic 
ween these two streets passes by 
rewood Gardens and the Fraternity 
adrangle.
ost students will encounter at least one 
these streets each day. For these ennters to be safe, not only must caution 
exercised between drivers and 
estrians, but the streets themselves 
uld also be constructed well and should 
e signs and other cues to allow both of 
se groups to use them effectively, 
lthough this safety is important, it is 
lng from these roads. Students compete 
h traffic by jaywalking. Cars vie with the 
lights, attempting to cross an intersecbefore yellow light turns red. Both 
bes and Fifth, the most dangerous streets 
CamPus> contain intervals from South
 liS S^eet to Morewood which allow
 omobiles to accelerate up to and beyond 
thirty five mile an hour speed limit.
r&artl Morrison and Tech, both narrower 
n the acceptable width, are connected 
1 at drivers on either street cannot see 
H oming traffic from the other. Tech is
 1 on a hill and gets slippery in winter. 
P sPots also exist by the Hill Dorms on 
I r^aret Morrison and by the Fraternity
 jangle on Morewood.
I number of students have been injured, 
|e . ^bert S. Fadzen Sr., Director of 
mv the CMU Campus Police Departwho realizes that these safety pro
bate existed for quite a while.
I^e straw was when a young man
hn a bicycle, recalled Fadzen. Thats
tv'e ^aid something had to be done. 
ording to Fadzen, streets are under
jurisdiction of the city and not the universi
ty. Therefore, the university does not have 
the power to paint lines, place signs, or in
stall any traffic controls. The campus police 
department does not even keep up to date 
accident records, a job for which the Pitt
sburgh Police Department is better suited. 
Since the Pittsburgh Police Department has 
a policy of withholding accident informa
tion, the accidents recounted by Fadzen were 
based only on what he could remember sup
ported by an occasional report he happen
ed to find.
Fadzen recalled that the young man was 
Steven Wong, a Hawaiian student, who was 
critically injured on October 30, 1982 after 
being struck by an eastbound car on the cor
ner of Fifth and Morewood. Wong suffered 
brain damage and broken bones. Fadzen 
recalled that after this accident occurred, he 
requested that Ed Gergerich, the City Plan
ning Engineer, come to CMU and examine 
the dangerous areas on campus, particularly 
Tech and Margaret Morrison. Fadzen said 
Gergerich was taken to these areas, but never 
got back to Fadzen about these matters.
The discussion came at a very difficult 
time, recalled Gergerich. The Forbes 
Avenue bridge was about to be closed down 
and all traffic was to be forced on South 
Craig and Morewood. Things have since 
reverted to normal.
No further discussion has taken place bet
ween Gergerich and Fadzen.
A problem exists and I wish it was a pro
blem that we could solve ourselves, com
mented Fadzen, but in fact, its only a pro
blem we can solve with the help of the City 
Planning Commission. Fadzen then went on 
to note that the different streets and intersec
tions were dangerous for different reasons.
Here is a list of the dangerous intersections 
on or near the campus:
Fifth and Morewood
This intersection is the most dangerous in
tersection near CMU. Cars and buses reach 
speeds in excess of thirty-five miles an hour, 
and protected left turns and DONT WALK 
signals are conspicuously lacking. Also, 
drivers seem reluctant to stop at the lights, 
choosing instead to take the chance of 
speeding past a yellow light.
As recently as last Wednesday, when this 
continued on page 3
A student crosses the Forbes and Morewood intersection.photo by Olve Peersen
Sub-zero temperatures 
affect CMU buildings
By AMY LIPKE
Tartan Staffwriter
The unusually cold weather of January 
18-21 resulted in an increased number of 
building malfunctions on campus. Large 
numbers of dorm residents suffered from loss 
of heating, loss of water, and frozen window 
hinges.
Housing Maintenance Coordinator Ida 
Czamecki reports that about half of the dor
mitories on campus received some damage 
as a result of temperatures which plunged 
to nearly -20. (The damage is) nothing we 
didnt expect, she stated, recalling the age 
of the buildings used as residence halls.
The most common complaint received bv 
the Housing Office was no heat. Ac
cumulated water had to be drained from 
many radiators in order for heat to escape.
Morewood Gardens residents were without 
water for a few hours on Monday the 21st 
while Physical Plant repaired a pipe leak on 
an outside wall in D-Tower.
Czamecki praised the cooperation bet
ween the students, the Housing Office, and 
Physical Plant which enabled quick repairs 
in most cases. We have to give a lot of credit 
to the residents themselves (for promptly 
reporting malfunctions), she said, adding, 
the response from Physical Plant was ex
cellent .. .we had been working around the
clock.
By Tuesday the 22nd, following a rise in 
temperatures, calls to the Housing Office 
had trickled down to almost none, and con
ditions returned to normal. Said Czamecki, 
Im glad its over, myself.
In This Issue:
News
Poet wins fellowship page 4
Features
Computer Science
considers move.....page 5
Pizza War.........page 10
Entertainment
Bob Dylan's ''Real
Live".............page 11
"Master of the 
Telecaster"........page 12
Acme..............page 24
Sports
Cagers move up....page 15
The Penguin "Kids", page 17

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanJanuary 29, 1985
University Technology Development Center One, pictured here, is the first of the 
Regional Industrial Development Corporation of Southwestern Pennsylvanias in
cubator" facilities to foster product development activities by scientific innovators. 
Located at 4516 Henry Street near the Mellon Institute in the Universtity-Oakland 
section of Pittsburgh, the Center is now operational following completion of an ex
tensive renvovation program by RIDC.
Minutes of the Student Senate 
January 22, 1985
meeting was called to order at 8:04.
Present: Bach, Bett, Bianco, Chu, Cohen, Cramer, 
DeBroff, DeMelio, Goldstein, Harrison, Ickes, Jagerski, King, McCormick, Miller, Mukherjee, Novak, 
Pistcitello, Salley, Simmons, Taylor, Weller.
Absent: Denburg, Dorsey, Nicholss, Dean Cox, Dean 
Walter.
Audience Participation: None.
President: Pub will open sometime this semester  will 
reach its final form by fall. Meeting of pub committee 
Tuesday at 5:30 in the Highlander Room. Board of 
trustees met and dealt with long-range plans for the 
university. These include additional/improved 
space and the construction of a recreational 
athletic facility.
SDC: Housing fee may be raised 1-2% for off-campus 
housing and 5-8% on campus.
No report .
Chairman: Encouraged attendance of Faculty Senate 
meeting, Thursday, January 31 at 3:30 pm. Action on 
the appeals investigation has not been taken. Next week 
Tamals report on the parking situation will be in your 
folders. He has spoken to Oscar Meyer and gotten 
answers to some of the questions raised at last weeks 
meeting. After discussion, it was recommended that 
Senate contact the Guardian Angels for a full story on 
the implications of their implementation on campus. 
Clean those folders.
Vice-Chair: The Auxiliary Services Committee has for
mally opposed the two-deposit proposal before Hous
ing. Reasons for this increase include inflation and the 
necessity of moving upperclassmen off campus so that 
freshmen will be guaranteed on-campus housing. A sugi 
gestion was made to survey the conditions of off-campus 
housing.
Rules: Motion to remove from the table amendment 
to Article VII, Section 2. Motion passed. Suggestion 
to table amendment as printed copies were not previous
ly available and thus its implications may not be fully 
understood. Rebuttal to this suggestion: Vacant seats 
must be filled. This proposal will not upset the balance, 
as the seats will only be filled for one semester. Discus
sion: Goldstein: This is a plot for a few people to be 
on a particular committee. McCormick: The problem 
lies within the structure of CFA. DeMelio: All attempts 
to recruit from CFA have failed. Cohen: Can't let three 
seats open all semester. Motion to limit debate. Motion 
fails. Novak: Is CFA aware of what could happen con
cerning the shift in balance of seats? Soller: The 
of this amendment is to fill empty seats. The 
fair point is the possible change of balance. McCo 
Is it fair to change this balance? Have causes 
problem really been looked into? Motion to call q, 
tion. Motion passed. Motion to approve amend 
Motion fails.
nlytt 
of CFij
Priced
used fr
5urvfvl
Academic Affairs: Report from the Educational 
fairs Committee will be in your folders next week. Si 
of reactions to core curriculum is planned. Re 
last weeks request of an investigation into the 
transcripts  the price is high because this is the di 
ments only income. Income from transcripts 
work-study students. Copies of next years schedul 
be available next week. Finals week will be Deceml 
16-21, as CMU will return to its tradition of starting 
Labor Day, and moving the spring semester forward 
relieve conflicts with Passover. Senate can demand 
this calendar will be changed. A petition against 
calendar is being prepared.
GC&I: The poster slogan will be Gripebusters" ai 
of Senates advertising campaign. Photos taken last 
will appear near Skibo Information Desk. A 
opinions concerning the impact of GC&I will be 
Questions include: Do you know your senator? 
How can Senate help improve this campus? 
sion: Q: Will the survey .really be of a random 
ing? Why not select a few student from each class 
college and contact them through campus mail? 
not set up a table at the Tartan Grill? A: It maybe 
ficult to process that many responses. McCormick: 
many CMU students we are falling victim 
overdesign.
Finance: No report.
Old Business: Look over the "Election Procedi 
amendment.
New Business: Roaches spotted in the Tartan Grill 
Kiltie  can UDS be pressured?
General Discussion: Q: When will the dialing 
numbers for the TOPS system be changed? Why 
the Physical Plant spend Sunday polishing woodii 
of heating classrooms for the next day? A: The 
may already be at its capacity. Problem may be 
meters. Buildings are too old and replacement of 
meters is too costly. Two buildings on the Hill have 
condemned for their lack of fire escapes.
Academic Affairs is preparing a catalogue of 
fessors and courses from its backlog of FCEs. Si 
tion of cleaning Senate files. Suggestion of b: 
ing Senate office  not inviting for office hours.
Announcements: Mandatory meeting Sunday at 
GC&I will meet Wednesday at 7:00.
The meeting was adjourned at 8:08.
. !
STUDENT SENATE VACANCIES
Student Senate announces openings in the follow
ing in the following college:
Petitions are available at Skibo Information Desk, and are due at 5:00 pm 
on Friday, January 25,1985. All Activities Fee-paying students in their respec
tive colleges are eligible. If you have any questions, call Larry Bach at 247-7375 
or Jeff Soller at 661-0984.
Student Senate.
We get things done.
Funded by Activities

---------------------------------------------------

January 29, 1985The TartanPage 3
Busy students and traffic impede street safety
continued from page 1
reporter was examining this intersection, a 
car was spotted travelling past a yellow light 
that had changed color before the car reach
ed the intersection. The car was traversing 
the same path as the car that hit Wong. 
According to Fadzen, a CMU custodian 
as hit by a car at this intersection four to 
lVe years ago after exiting a bus. She lost 
er foot.
Forbes and Morewood
Similar to its sister intersection of Fifth 
and Morewood, Forbes and Morewood has 
high speed traffic in common with the 
former intersection. According to Gergerich, 
this street carries primarily university traf
fic. Cars heading east accelerate in a stretch 
from South Craig while cars heading west 
ain velocity from the interval beyond Beeler 
treet.
Although jaywalking across Forbes is com
monplace because of the location of Skibo 
and fraternities such as Delta Upsilon and 
eta Theta Pi, the intersection has a DONT 
TALK signal as well as delayed lights, makng it less dangerous than at Fifth, but still 
he second most dangerous.
Many students misinterpret the walk 
ignal at this intersection as being too short 
n duration. Gergerich likened the signal to 
traffic light in which WALK means the 
destrian has the right of way, but should 
till be aware that traffic may turn from 
orewood on to Forbes. A flashing DONT 
TALK is similar to a yellow light and a solid 
ONT WALK is the same as a red light. 
Two years ago, according to Fadzen, a girl 
as hit by a car and thrown about fifty feet, 
cently, a young man was run over by an 
utomobile and a jack was required to free 
is leg.
brbes and Margaret Morrison; Margaret 
'orrison and lech
Fadzen characterizes Margaret Morrison
photo by Bob Fishel
The intersection of Margaret Morrison and Tech Streets is narrow, slippery in 
winter, and heavily traversed by students. Drivers of the cars and small trucks which 
use it often have a difficult time making safe turns.
and Tech by their narrowness, which pro
motes sideswiping and fender benders. 
The whole area from Margaret Morrison 
to Forbes is difficult, commented Fadzen. 
Parking is difficult, and students crossing 
streets at various locations, deliveries to the 
co-op and students moving their belongings 
[in and out of double-parked cars] affect the 
traffic patterns.
According to Gergerich, the ideal lane 
should be ten feet wide and even more than 
that However, Margaret Morrison is near
ly seventeen feet wide, less than the space re
quired for the two lanes. In addition, 
these lanes are going in opposite directions, 
justifying the need for a yellow divider line,
which is not present. So many things are 
compromises, said Gergerich. Higher traf
fic speeds [such as those attained by remov
ing a lane of parking] could make it 
[Margaret Morrison Street] less safe. 
However, cars are already travelling top 
speed along this street.
Furthermore, neither Margaret Morrison 
nor Tech has a single speed limit sign or a 
similar sign warning drivers of pedestrian 
traffic by the Hill Dorms (which cannot be 
seen coming up Margaret Morrison from 
Forbes) as well as pedestrian passage at the 
Margaret Morrison and Tech intersection. 
As noted before, the Margaret Morrison and 
Tech intersection is blind from both
directions.
Gergerich stated that the Hill Dorms blind 
spot should not exist if cars parked not closer 
than twenty feet from the crosswalk (which 
they do not.) He also said that it was not 
necessary to overwhelm people with traffic 
controls for the reasons of confusion and 
vandalism.
The hill is a killer in winter, said Fadzen 
of Tech Street. He also noted that sometimes 
in the winter, the city fails to salt the road, 
leaving the job to Campus Security. 
Gergerich pointed out that Margaret Mor
rison and Tech are local streets and therefore 
have a lower priority than arterial and col
lector streets.
Both streets become slippery in winter and 
skidding occurs. A minor accident in midJanuary involved a moving vehicle and a 
parked car.
Frew, Schenley and Tech
This intersection is dangerous because of 
its strange configuration. Tech intersects 
with Frew, but there is a confusing gap bet
ween Frew and Schenley. Also, Schenley is 
built on a hill.
Last year, a car was hit at this intersec
tion and rolled into an embankment.
Fadzen suggested that two things need to 
be done to combat the dangers of these 
streets and intersections. First of all, the 
community needs to be aware that things 
are happening at these high speed intersec
tions. Secondly, better signs need to be plac
ed along Margaret Morrison and Tech and 
more thought needs to be given to the dif
ferent kinds of traffic controls available.
The community can provide feedback to 
the Traffic Engineering Department by con
tacting the Mayors Service Center at 
255-2621 or by writing:
Department of Public Works 
416 City County Building 
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Counseling & Student Development Center 
presents WORKSHOPS
MANAGING STRESS: How to cope with 
academic and personal pressures. 7 
Thursdays from 4:30-5:30, beginning 
February 14.
EATING DISORDERS GROUP: Ongoing support 
group for persons struggling with starvation, 
and/or binging/purging. Mondays from 
4:30-5:30, beginning February li.
FAMILIES IN TRANSITION: An ongoing support 
group for students whose parents are 
separated or divorced. Thesdays from 
4:00-5:00. Begins February 12. 
UNDERSTANDING ADDICTION IN FAMILIES: Educa
tional support group for people who are con
cerned about a family members abuse of 
alcohol and/or drugs. 8 Tuesdays from 
4 00-5:30; begins February 19.
WHAT DO YOU DO AFTER YOU SAY HELL? Learn 
how to enhance your ability to relate to others. 
4 Wednesdays from 4:30-5:30; begins 
February 2.
For information and registration: call ext. 
2922 or sign up at E Tower, Morewood 
hardens, Room 103.
division of Student Affairs
PHILOSOPHY CLUB
First Meeting
WHEN: Thursday January 31, 5:00 pm 
WHERE: 254-A Baker Hall 
WHAT: to plan a club format for the Spring 
Semester
WHO: any undergraduate, or graduate student 
or faculty member with an interest in intellec
tual inquiry
But what after all are mans 
truths? They are his irrefutable 
errors.   Friedrich Nietzshe
J

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanJanuary 29, 1985
Daniels awarded NEA fellowship for poetry
By RUTH WEENING
Tartan Staffwriter
A $20,000 National Endowment for the 
Arts (NEA) Fellowship was awarded to 
Assistant Creative Writing professor Jim 
Daniels for his work in poetry.
In order to be eligible for this award, a 
poet must have had 20 poems published in 
five years.
Daniels has been published in various 
poetry journals and two chapbooks titled 
Factory Poems and On the Line. On the 
Line won the 1980 Signpost award.
Daniels, who teaches both poetry and fic
tion at CMU, sees the teaching of creative
writing as a matter of balancing criticism 
with encouragement. He currently teaches 
a course in review writing, which instructs 
students in their attempts to appraise theater 
events, restaurants, music and other forms 
of entertainment.
After completing his undergraduate 
education at Alma College in Michigan, 
Daniels received his Masters in Fine Arts 
from Bowling Green State University. He 
taught at Bowling Green for a year before 
coming to CMU.
Daniels is entered in a University of 
Wisconsin poetry contest and has a book set 
for publication.
The Greek ViewIFC promotes alcohol awareness
By Marc Bolan
This Thursday, January 31, the Interfratemity Council will sponsor an Alcohol 
Awareness Day. The program will be held 
in the Skibo Ballrdom from 10 am to 5:30 
pm and, according to Fraternity/Sorority 
Advisor Jay Carson, will be designed to 
educate and sensitize the campus communi
ty to the realities of alcohol.
The program will consist of represen
tatives from various campus and local 
organizations, who will present their 
perspectives on drug and alcohol abuse. 
Among these speakers are representatives 
from the CMU Counseling Center, the Penn
sylvania State Police, the Western Penn
sylvania chapter of the American 
Automobile Association, the National Coun
cil on Alcoholism, and CMU Security. In ad
dition, a number of students representing 
campus and Greek organizations will par
ticipate in a controlled drinking and driv
ing simulation. Among those participating
are Bill McCormick, president of Student 
Senate; John Pistolessi, former president of 
Sigma Nu; Ric Medrow, Features Editor of 
The Tartan; and Julie Taylor, president of 
Delta Delta Delta and social chairman of 
Panhel.
The participants will be given drinks for 
a certain period of time and will then be ask
ed to take part in a simulation involving a 
video driving game and the use of a Macin
tosh computer. This is in order to better 
demonstrate the effects of alcohol on an in
dividuals coordination.
The program will begin with an half-hour 
information session at 10:00 am and is 
scheduled to end at 5:30 pm. An open 
discussion will be held at 4:45 pm. The pro
gram is being coordinated by Adam Susser 
of Kappa Sigma; any questions can be 
directed to Greek advisor Jay Carson in Stu
dent Affairs. The Greek community urges 
everyone to attend this program and learn 
the realities behind the use of alcohol.
Shown with Andy Warhol (in center with white hair) are the Art Department 
students and faculty who toured alumnus Andy Warhols studio in New York on 
Jan. 18. Senior painting majors who took part in the visit are: Zhanna Bekker, 
Nick Bell, Kirk Botula, Michael Chandler, Barbara Conner, Katherine Chan, 
Karen Frank, Jamie Gruzska, Judy Hastings, Michael Heisler, Janine Hudak, 
Michael Kapeluck, Cornelia Karraffe-Exler, Evan Knauer, Deborah Koncius, 
Latelle Lafollette, Paula Larkin, Christopher Marcoux, Judy Mont, Diana 
Ovberg, Jack Sheffler, Renee Smith, Carolyn Speranza, Carolyn Terner, Patty 
Xenos and Diane Thodos. Faculty participation in the event were Dean Akram 
Midani of the College of Fine Arts, Art Department Head Orville Winsand and 
painting professors Sam Gilliam, Mary Weidner and Joann Maier.
Pittsburgh  When a couple of dozen pain
ting students from Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity went to visit the schools most famous art 
graduate, Andy Warhol, at his studio in New 
York City last week (Friday, Jan. 18), he sug
gested they go into the movies.
No one can use art any more. Get a 
camera, do video, get into the computer 
business, he said.
Typically contrary, Warhol adds, Its a lit
tle easier now. Every day a new gallery is 
opening. Its easy to sell work in the United 
States. Lots of kids from Carnegie make it, 
notes Warhol, the king of Pop art.
Warhols new studio on East 33rd Street 
in Manhattan is not like his previous fac
tories. Theres no tin foil on the walls, 
people working there look conservative < 
by New York standards. Nothing unusual a| 
cept a stuffed lion perched on a jetty in t 
two-story high reception area. The build 
houses the editorial offices for Warhol 
magazine Interview as well as a skyligh 
studio.
The Pop artist is following his own adv 
and is currently working on a pilot for Ml 
Its a 15 minute show like Interview btj 
faster, he said. The show will include; 
music, and other topics.
Warhol, a native of McKeesport, 
graduated from CMU in 1947.
To follow foolish precedents, 
and wink with both our eyes, 
is easier than to think."William Cowper
The Tartan. 
Come by Skibo 50, or call x2111, weekdays between 3 and 5 pm for more information.
"CHHCRISv."v:V

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
r JEFF HENDRIX
rtan Staffwriter
Computer Science is getting restless. As 
e department continues to grow at a 
enomenal rate, the question of autonomy 
ises. A growing consensus in the depart*nt indicates a desire to break away from 
t Mellon College of Science in order to 
m Some type of independent unit.
John P. Crecine, Senior Vice President for 
ademic Affairs, has chaired a series of 
etings which have been held in order to 
cuss the options available. Crecine stated 
it the objective of the meetings . . has 
yays been to try to figure out whats best 
lim the universitys point of view in terms 
I organization . . . The way that we are 
I iling with the issue is to try to think about 
I:university in the long run. For example, 
I ats the year 2000 going to look like and 
I at are the implications of that for the in
itial organization of the university.
This is a national issue!
George J. Fix, head of the Mathematics 
lartment, expanded the issues horizon by 
ing, I think this is a national issue. We 
e an imbalance in our own society. Com
ers are going to be very, very important 
ill segments of society, and theyre in a 
stage.
[eelings about Computer Sciences pro
split from the Mellon College of 
range from enthusiastic support to 
opinion of Dr. Robert F. Sekerka, dean 
tfCS. Sekerka said, Im not in favor of 
nputer Science becoming a separate unit;
I.. I want this university to 
organized so that it conues to be on the frontier
I new development. 
President Richard Cyert
nmm itpr Qrnr'- Individuals offer opinions on >O ITI p ULc I ocience: push for autonomous department
act, Im strongly opposed. It would not 
| good for the university or the college 
KS), the students, or even Computer
rice.
An independent organization
n the other end of the spectrum, Pror Allen Newell, who has been describjs presently carrying the ball for Comr Science, said, There are a number of 
ho believe that the appropriate way for 
puter Science to be organized is essenas some kind of an independent 
nization.
usidering the wide range of opinions, 
lne said, The discussions are really 
lngLike anything else, it is very dif110 impose a set of organizational arements that are not at least marginally 
table to all parties. 
cording to Crecine, as it now stands, 
are fur possibilities being discussed. 
ls the status quo, Computer Science 
within the Mellon College of Science. 
er possibility that has been discussed 
aching computer science to one of the 
olleges. A third possibility discussed 
^ ave Computer Science be a graduate 
The fourth possibility is to have 
Uter Sconce be a free-floating departrePrting directly to either the senior 
resident or the provost.
I" arguments for the separation 
| mPuter Science has been that they colfrde e^Ua^ ^ most of the collages 
| ergraduate programs. For instance, 
pterScience works closely with Elecnglneering Department of CIT, the
find that alternative terribly objectionable. 
In contrast, Dr. James C. Williams, Dean 
of CIT, stated, Its hard for me to imagine 
an arrangement that has no college struc
ture. I cant see any benefit. There has to 
be some subdivision in the university, I 
think, to make the management of the 
university feasible.
Sekerka expressed a similar sentiment. 
Every department needs to be part of a col
lege, he said. We have a pyramidal struc
ture and at every level goals need to be 
transferred to different units.
Free-floating department favored
Quest for autonomy
Dr. Nico Habermann, who has described 
himself as having orginally taken the in
itiative in Computer Sciences quest for 
autonomy, said, If you look at the amount 
of space, the size of the faculty, the size of 
the graduate student body, and so on, its 
out of proportion to the other departments. 
Fix is also in agreement that the mere size 
of Computer Science requires a rvaluation 
of the whole structure of the university. In 
his opinion Computer Science is . . . so big 
they are, in terms of numbers of faculty and 
in amount of grants, a college in themselves.
John P. Crecine (pictured above) feels a 
represents forces for isolation. 
Mathematics Department of MCS, the 
Psychology Department of H&SS, and even 
the Music Department of CFA.
Where would you put Computer Science?
According to Dr. Herbert Simon, If we 
were just starting from scratch and you said: 
Where would you put a Computer Science 
Department? You could argue for almost 
anywhere.
In relation, Newell said, If you look 
around there is no particular reason why we 
should be part of MCS more so than any 
other college.
Upon this aspect Dr. Sekerka said, If 
there were any compelling reasons for their 
transferring to another college, I would not 
stand in their way.
A coinciding argument for autonomy 
centers around the size of the department. 
Most of the issues that are really big and 
important with respect to Computer Science 
transcend the Mellon College of Science, 
said Newell. Consequently, it turns out that 
the college level of organization is not do
ing any good.
Bob Fishel
free-standing Computer Science department
makes it harder to simply slice up the budget 
among colleges and then redivide within col
leges, thinking first about a unit as large as 
Computer Science . . . but I think the 
budget procedures could be changed 
without changing the organization.
So, just what is Computer Science after? 
Habermann stated, Ideally, Id like to see 
a school that has information processing as 
its central theme . . . that I think is not 
feasible yet. However, Habermann said that 
he believed that it would be . . . good for 
CMUs standing to take the initiative and 
start a school for information processing. 
Moreover, Newell summed up what ap
pears to be the growing consensus within the 
department when he said, I think the ap
propriate way is for Computer Science to be 
some kind of an independent organization, 
not part of any other college.
Alternative not Terribly objectionable? 
Opinions upon the concept of Computer 
Science becoming a free-floating depart
ment tend to be diverse. Simon said, I 
myself would not put it forward, but I dont
Crecine took the position that establishing 
Computer Science as a free-floating depart
ment would enable the situation to be view
ed as an experiment. From his standpoint, 
If the experiment worked out . . . people 
would feel more comfortable about Com
puter Science either remaining in that status 
or becoming a school unto itself. On the 
other hand, if it didnt work out, it would 
be much easier to move it back into one of 
the existing units than if it were a free
standing college that you had to dismantle. 
So, why the opposition? Is it just because 
organizations tend to resist change? One 
thought is that, considering the size of Com
puter Science, would its separation hurt the 
Mellon College of Science? Simon points out, 
Computer Science and Robotics have been 
a source of resources for this university and 
at present a very important source of 
resources for the support of graduate 
students of MCS. Thus, one would suspect 
that the oppositions motivation is fear of los
ing these resources.
However, Sekerka forsees no economic 
problem in relation to the possible loss of 
Computer Science. In fact, he stated em
phatically that, In no way is the rest of the 
College living off of their success.
Crecine supported this stance by stating, 
There have been arguments both ways on 
that issue. I am personally convinced that 
financial concerns are not a motivation. 
Instead, there is a fear that Computer 
Science would become isolated from the rest 
of the university and neglect the 
undergraduate student body. Dr. Sorenson, 
continued on page 9
Budget procedures could be changed
However, Sekerka is not hesitant is speak
ing out against such a conceptualization. In 
fact, he said, Calling Computer Science a 
college is rather ludicrous.
Sekerka does not deny the fact that Com
puter Science is confronted with problems 
because of its size. I realize the problems 
of a large department are different from a 
small department, but I dont find that to 
be a compelling argument for the restruc
turing of the present organization.
Upon this aspect of the dilemma, Simon 
agrees with Sekerka. According to Simon, 
Its always difficult to run an organization, 
if one of the components of that organiza
tion is a very large fraction of the whole. It
photo by Josh Brodsky
I myself would not put it forward (a move by Computer Science)/ said Herbert Simon 
(pictured above). But I dont find that alternative terribly objectionable.**

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanJanuary 29, 1985
Physical Plant
Locksmith teiis about his 17-year CMU experience
By TERI BREIER
Tartan Staffwriter
The blue uniforms are always around 
when youre walking to dass. Sometimes they 
run you over with a snowplow. In warmer 
seasons they freshen the clean Pittsburgh air 
with the pungent scent of fertilizer. But, if 
not for them, our campus wpuld be a much 
less pleasant place to live and learn.
They belong to the men of Physical Plant 
and it is to them we owe our gratitude for 
keeping the grounds attractive and the cam
pus running smoothly. But they do not often 
get the recognition they deserve.
We never get letters of appreciation from
I let some panicking stu
dent into his car and never 
hear from him again. 
Armand Castelli 
Physical Plant
students, sighs Armand Castelli. I let some 
panicking kid into his car and never hear 
from him again. Sometimes its an unrewar
ding job. Castelli is a key figure in Physical 
Plant, he, along with partner Andy Kocinski, is a locksmith.
Castelli and Kocinski handle all the locks 
on campus. They duplicate keys for Hous
ing, install doors in academic buildings, and 
rescue students who have locked themselves 
out of their cars.
Some people think all we do is sit around 
all day, cutting keys. But a typical day is 
pretty hectic, and were on call 24 hours a 
day. Were very underhanded; theres only
the two of us, so were under a lot of 
pressure. Castelli cites the pressure as be
ing the least rewarding aspect of the job.
His favorite aspect?
Payday, he laughs. With a wife and four 
kids, Im thankful for the income.
However, money cant be the only thing 
keeping Castelli here. He has worked at 
CMU for seventeen years, since 1968.
Ive seen a lot of changes, he muses. I 
remember when they started construction of 
Wean Hall. The students protested; 
brought hundreds of high school kids in and 
staged marches and rallies. Things 
quieted down a bit since then.
When Castelli first began working here, 
he was in the Post Office, By the end of four 
years he was foreman. The challenge 
he decided to transfer to Security, and re
mained there for ten years.
Back when he started there, Security was 
very different than it is now. Officers didnt 
carry weapons, and the staff was small. 
Castelli, who was promoted to the high rank 
of lieutenant, and served as acting director 
several times, takes credit for arming the 
force and making it more effective in pro
tecting the students.
He also was responsible for initiating the 
Escort service.
I got the vans and trained the student 
drivers. The hardest part was deciding where 
to limit the distance of the service. We had 
complaints from students who lived a mile 
and a half off campus, because they were 
beyond the radius of one mile. But we had 
to draw the line somewhere.
After ten years, Castelli had had enough,
photo by
Locksmith Armand Castelli (pictured above) remembers student protest oven 
building of Wean Hall.
so he got a Locksmithing certificate through 
a correspondence course, and transferred to 
Physical Plant.
Things get stagnant after a while in one 
area, he explains. However, he loves CMU, 
being around students, and respects the 
administration.
President Cyert is just a regular nice j 
Castelli says. And the students are 
When I first worked here, I would 
around with them, go to frat parties; 
stuff. I still get letters from alumni, inviti 
me to weddings in Florida, and other pla 
Its really nice being remembered.
Got a complaint?
If so, come to the Student Senate meeting and voice it!
Meetings: Tuesdays, 7:00 p.m., Wherrett Room Office: Skibo 59 Address: Skibo Info Desk
Student Senate.
Working together, 
we get things done.

---------------------------------------------------

January 29, 1985The TartanPage 7
ineo's victor in Murray Ave. pizza war
PETER CORTLAND
art Staffwriter
Murray Avenue in Squirrel Hill is a
jitalist war zone
Competition never had it so good. The aries of the food entrepeneurs and their 
businesses do battle daily, arm
ed with the weapons of their 
trade. There are a few rivalries 
among the kosher delis, the 
and the bakeries, but on one 
Irticular battlefield, the fighting is exImely fierce and the casualties high. It is 
: on the Italian front that a way between 
lir establishments is waged with a powerI weapon  pizza.
1  _________________________
Expires 
?b.5, 1985
Vithin the two blocks of Murray Ave., 
ween Beacon and Hobart Streets, there
0 cease-fire among the four pizzerias, onut-throat competition. Knowing the dif;nce between the pizza establishments in 
area is as difficult as uncovering the dif;nces between religious factions in Midit turmoil. Who is winning the pizza wars
1 why? Who is the king of the crust? Of 
mliness? Who is the superpower of sauce? 
service? What cheese is the most power? Most palatable? Who delivers? To 
ierstand the elements of this Sicilian
d, it was necessary to visit each of the 
nps and objectively review their strategic 
ces. So, armed with only expectant 
tebuds and a pencil, I sampled a few 
es, with and without toppings, from each 
ia parlor.
Cheese and crust miser
|Vapolis Pizzeria, at 2006 Murray Ave. was 
first stop. For $.45/slice and only $4.90 
a large plain pie, this competitor has 
tively low prices. Another asset to 
polis is the cuts are comparatively large.
1, low expense and large cuts do not a pizmake. The crust at the perimeter was 
wy but rather airy and tasting of floury 
gh. The crust and cheese were both thin, 
-'iously portioned by a crust and cheese 
er. The sauce was too spicy, which exined why there was also so little of it. The 
es may have been relatively big, but I felt 
ecessary to fold each slice. Along with the 
osphere of the place, which Ill discuss 
r, the pizza at Napolis made me want 
continue my search for the better slice. 
109 Murray Ave.: Roccos Ristorante & 
zeria is the latest, and most courageous,
addition to the pizza factions in the 
neighborhood. When asked to comment on 
the competitive atmosphere on the block, 
the proprietess said grimly, We stare at each 
other alot.
Sausage between beef jerky and gristle
To win in this cold war, shell have to do 
a lot more than stare, and she doesnt. 
Although the cuts at Roccos were the largest 
of the pizzerias, they were also the most ex
pensiveUnless the prices come down, Id 
guess that Roccos woman will have plenty 
of time to stare. The one attribute to Roc
cos pizza, the tomato sauce, was nearly in-* 
distinguishable amidst all the other faults. 
The crust was thin and hard at the 
perimeter. The topping (sausage) looked 
remarkably like what one might find on a 
dogs walk and guaranteed a marked relax
ation in appetite. However, in fairness, I 
tasted it. The result^was something like a 
cross between beef jerky and gristle. The 
cheese also added to the effect. It tasted old, 
smelled nasty and there was plenty of it. On
ward to Aiellos.
Crust thin and leathery
Aiellos Pizza, at 2112 Murray Ave., can 
boast about their quick service. Compared 
to ten minutes at Napolis and seven at Roc
cos, I waited only three minutes for my cuts
at Aiellos. Their fast sevice and their liberal 
toppings (mushrooms this time) are Aiellos 
only qualities. Beyond that, however, they 
continued on page 10
 SmartMOVE!
PREPARATION FOR:We gt h ingt h Wsd
eogt.Sgt
CALL:
661-2772
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE 
EXPANDED
Now Every Sunday through Thursday 
7:00 - 10:00 PM
CALCULUS
PRE, I, II, III 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY 
ENGLISH WRITING 
INTRO TO COMPUTING 
Sponsored by Student 
Counseling and Student Development 
Center.
PH 225B
PH 226B 
PH 226C 
PH 125B
WeH 5415
Affairs and
educationalComma e d uucati
CCKn* * NCOLCY AVt. AT MUM ML VO
Our Full Service 
Salon Offers:
HAIR CUTTING *HAIR COLOR BODY WAVES *JERI CURLS CAREFREE CURLS RELAXERS Call TodaySalvatore Puccini can help you achieve that certain look of success for the many times of your life. Step into Puccinis where our skilled professionals offer the finest elements of hair design.
110 South Bouquet StOakland
621-2067
o *
includes body wve, h.ircut, blow dry end .tyling

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanJanuary 29, 1985
Core courses j|
General consensus on current core favorable
By HELENE NEWBERG
Tartan Staffwriter
Everyone who enters Carnegie-Mellon 
University knows to expect at least two years 
of core courses. It means, loosely 
translated, Intro to Everything. You learn 
about general topics relating to your major 
and your college.
Coming to this school 
means you know pretty 
much what you want to ma
jor in, and pretty much 
what sort of career you 
want.
For H&SS, you must fill a Science and 
Technology requirement. For CFA students, 
there are history, English and Philosophy 
courses. Its the same with science and 
engineering students.
For two years, while we may know exact
ly what we want for our major, we remain 
at the mercy of the Core Curriculum. 
Engineers and Hackers learn about 
philosophy and communicating their ideas 
to the rest of the world. The College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences seems to be 
the main elective staple in everyone elses 
diet.
Writing doesnt interest an econ major
Coming to this school means you know 
pretty much what you want to major in, and 
pretty much what sort of career your want. 
It seems you should be able to take only 
those courses which pertain to it. Strategies
for Writing, Ill admit was a worthwhile 
course, but writing really doesnt interest an 
econ major. In other words, Isnt this a lit
tle too much like the high school I just 
graduated, having my courses chosen for 
me?
Jonathan, a Comp. Sci. sophomore 
disagrees. H&SS courses arent exactly NOT 
pertaining to my major. Im learning com
munication skills that are valuable to my 
career.
Martin, a Metallurgical Engineering 
sophomore had this to say about his H&SS 
courses: They are a good idea, but I dont
feel any continuity between semesters or 
courses. Taking a semester of philosophy 
and then one of psychology doesnt necessari
ly lend itself as well to continuity as, perhaps, 
the required physics sequence does.
Depth-sequences suggested
A Civil Engineering sophomore also noted 
lack of depth in the required H&SS courses. 
Perhaps having only one course in each 
elective area is more of a nuisance than its 
worth. She suggests depth-sequence as a way 
of making the H&SS required classes more 
beneficial.
photo by Colin Rafferty
With opinion on core courses generally favorable, Andrew Achenbaum (pictured above) 
is working on a university-wide core.
From both CFA and CIT/MCS studen 
I got the feeling that they wanted easy woi 
and light reading/paper-writing loads. I 
got the feeling they werent finding 4 
Perhaps good old H and Best Guess rej 
is as tough as the rest of the school.
A Dramat unloaded her weekful of p 
blems to me, including the tale of how 
drama majors in a history course dealt wi 
a test. She alone had read the material, 
didnt retain it. Four of her friends took 
quiz cold, without doing the reading assij 
ed, and one didnt bother to sit the clai
No time to read
But she wasnt bitter about the work, 
said the courses were a real good idea 
a dramat gets punted out of CFA (or choo* 
to leave), only three credit hours rema 
transferable. After as much as,or moretha 
eighteen hours of work a day. Theres just i 
time to read.
A lot of my friends give their H&] 
courses lowest priority. They think 
Others of my friends really enjoy the woi 
though. It gives them a chance to get a* 
from the rigidity of problem sets and i 
with words for awhile. It can be a real 
change of pace, comments an engineer! 
sophomore.
Core favorable
The general consensus on the core, 
eluding H&SS courses, is favorable, 
-junior noted, In most of my classes we 
in class and try to learn by listening. In 
il&SS courses most of the time we
things-----learn to contribute our ownii
and think together. I think its great!
onlC mlu'ee OCtl A Glld aniCg, Stick oitn ItHCAPRI PIZZA
Where Today... 
Tomorrow...AND EVEPy DAY . .you Get The Best Pizza In Oakland At The Best Price!
oooaraxiooara^^
2 *Also For Your Night Life Pleasure* 
 ECREESSTUDIC i0 *A VIDEO DISCO* o
Open Tuesday - Sunday 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. gooooooooooooodoooooooayyxiooooooooooocmxmooooooooaooo
uam roOydR gcdk lW,k lgk m2u l,ONd 68-2202
*EAT-IN or DELIVERED!!*
in ut

---------------------------------------------------

January 29, 1985The TartanPage 9
roe-floating department one possibility
omputer Science members push for autonomy
ntinued from page 5
e Head of the Physics Department, said, 
he main thing that concerns me is 
ganizing and delivering undergraduate 
ucation, and it seems to me that that has 
be done in a controlled way. Those decins have to be made centrally, and that 
cans they have to be made by college counls.Dr. Birge, Head of Chemistry, expressed 
concern that it seemed as though Corn
ier Science was striving to become a 
search institute.
nuinely interested in academic mission
However, Habermann contends that it is 
t the goal of Computer Science to become 
research institute. Instead, he maintains 
at they are genuinely interested in an 
ademic mission. Nonetheless, Sekerka has 
scribed Computer Science as being . . . 
ongly entrepreneurial and strongly 
aduate oriented.
Inevitably, this raises the consideration 
at, although Computer Science is closely 
nnected with undergraduate programs in 
er colleges and departments, they offer 
undergraduate major of their own. 
bermann contends that if Computer 
ience were to offer an undergraduate pro
jam, the university as a whole would fear 
is would place the department in a posin of isolation.
jUpon this aspect, Sekerka said, I dont 
how that would follow for them any more 
than any other department.
Forces for isolation
However, Crecine seems to support Habernns contention. According to Crecine, 
ght now Computer Sciences teaching
responsibilities are executed in the context 
of programs in other departments and col
leges and that keeps Computer Science tied 
to the university. If they were to operate as 
a free-standing unit with their own majors, 
that really represents forces for isolation. 
However, this statement is somewhat am
biguous in that the definition of free
standing unit is the crux of the current 
debate.
A further concern is the appearance that 
would be conveyed to people outside of the 
university if Computer Science were allow
ed to break away into an autonomous unit. 
Williams summed up this notion when he 
said, If I were an outsider . . . and saw 
the administration allow Computer Science 
to split away, I think I would interpret that 
as a further tilt toward a focus on computing 
at the expense of the other equally impor
tant activities.
Would not help image
Dr. Paul Karol, Associate Dean of MCS, 
also views a move by Computer Science 
towards autonomy as having an adverse ef
fect upon the university. Karol said, One of 
the perceptions that the university has to 
fight is that its a computer university, and 
structurally this does not help that image at 
all.
Where th^n does the decision stand at this 
point? President Richard Cyert summed it 
up tightly in the following statement: At this 
point, the answer is that there isnt any deci
sion. However, there has been a seminar 
scheduled for Saturday, March 2nd in order 
to discuss this and other problems of 
reorganization.
According to Cyert, The reason that I am 
interested in looking at this problem is that
Nico Haberman (pictured above) favors an 
explaining it would be good for CMUs
I do believe that computers are going to 
become even more pervasive in our lives and 
in our educational systems that they are now, 
and I want this university to be organized 
so that it continues to be on the frontier of 
new development. I think that it is an in
teresting question and one that Im glad has 
been raised. It will stimulate us to look at 
the whole organization of the university, 
which we should do because our colleges and 
our departments are somewhat arbitrarily
photo by Olve Peersen 
autonomous Computer Science department, 
standing.
put together.
A point that needs to be mentioned is, 
while there are differences of opinion upon 
this matter, that does not denote any lack 
of respect or cooperation on the part of 
either side. In fact, Sekerka said, Com
munications have been very good, and there 
is much mutual respect.
When asked if it is possible that Computer 
Science could be on its own next year, Cyert 
replied, Its possible.
The Many Functions of 
The Affordable Futon
Free Delivery on Saturdays thru Feb. 2 with 
this ad. 20% off platform frames with pur
chase of Futon.
BrouwerConvertibleFrame
Brouwer Bed Roll
Futon
 I** re
Sg
EOi
115 g SSiThe Linen Closet
Corner of Walnut and Maryland, Shadyside 
M-T-Th-F-Sa 11 -6, Wed 11 -9 362-8045
The Forbes Gallery
5200 forbes avenue
will review work for its annual
High-Tech Show
on Sunday, february 3 
at 7:00 p.m. in the gallery 
(open to entire campus)
submissions may include: photography (matted, w/glass) videos computer art performance art
questions?: 
Terri Glueck 578-4206 
Kirk Botula 621-2790 
show opens: tuesday, 
february 5, 7:00 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanJanuary 29, 1985
Mineo's clerks helpful and polite
Atmosphere sub-par at three pizza parlors
continued from page 7
are suffering heavy casualties in the pizza 
wars. The crust is thin and leathery tough, 
while the cheese only covers half the crust 
per slice. Along with a bland sauce, the lack 
of cheese creates a dry taste, as though the 
pizza had been left sitting in the stock room. 
All in all, Aiellos is hardly a major threat 
to the balance of pizza power on the front.
Mineos best on the block
So, that left one more  Mineos Pizza 
House at 2128 Murray Ave., two stores and 
a Bageland beyond Aiellos. Frankly, I had 
nearly given up hope that there would be 
any clear winner on the Italian battlefield. 
But there was. Mineos was relatively quick 
(five minutes) and the pizza was, by far, the 
best on the block. Although the cuts were 
the greasiest of the four, the toppings (pepperroni for me) were plentiful. The crust was 
thick, chewy, thoroughly baked and 
smothered with wads of tasty cheese. The 
sauce was a little watery, however, but did 
not significantly detract from the overall, 
deliciously gooey experience.
Compared to the other three, the at
mosphere in Mineos also contributed to its 
success and to my evaluation. Mineos is 
rather small, with only five tables for those 
eating in. Though the constant conversation 
behind the counter centers around their 
mutual female acquaintances, the guys are 
efficient, helpful and polite.
In Aiellos, the employees have no sense 
of uniform. They wear assorted heavy-metal 
band t-shirts, talk about cars and smoke 
cigarettes as they prepare your meal. The 
place is spacious (about ten tables) but 
everything is done in white linoleum. The 
overall effect of decorum reminded me of a
Napoli PizzeriaAddress: 2006 Murray Ave.
Open: Sun - Sat, 21 am - 2 am
Prices: Lg  $4.90, Sm  $3.50, single cut
$0.45
Delivery: Free
Rocco's Ristorante Address: 2109 Murray Ave.
8c Pizzeria
Aiello's Pizza
Mineos Pizza 
House
Open: Sun - Sat, 11 am - 1 am 
Prices: Lg  $5.50, Sm  $3.80, single cut  
$0.75
Delivery: Free
Address: 2112 Murray Ave.
Open: Sun - Sat, 11 am - 2 am 
Prices: Lg  $5.40, Sm  $3.60, single cut  
$0.50
Delivery: None 
Address: 2128 Murray Ave.
Open: Sun - Th, 11 am - 1 am; Fri * Sat, 11 am -
A. ' 'z am
Prices: Lg  $5.40, Sm $3.20, single cut  $0.85 
Delivery: None A 
:
da of the aforementioned Sicilian tribes. ThM 
advertisements said it all and confirmed mjfj 
opinions. Roccos, too new to be listed, didjl 
not deserve to be listed. Aiellos slogan J|
u
The Taste You Know and Enjoy. I assumt|
The crust was thick 
chewy, thoroughly bakedj 
and smothered with wads oil I 
tasty cheese.
Peter Cortland
huge restroom (without urinal).
Roccos is also very spacious and, with a 
section appropriated for video games, pro
bably very accomodating to large high 
school crowds. Still, I felt as though I was 
in someones living room because of the 
arguing going on between family 
members/employees. One young man ask
ed me, above the din, to turn down the T.V. 
on my side of the counter. I was also turned 
off by the preperation of my slices without 
toppings. This was handled by the cashier, 
who also handled every customers money.
Interrupting a pizza gang's conference
Like Roccos, the appearance of 
cleanliness is not one of the important con
siderations at Napolis. The guys there, the 
youngest looking of the four pizzerias, wear 
white, cut-off t-shirts and smoke cigarettes 
while they work. There are also a lot of guys 
just sitting around, which contributes to the 
pervasive feeling that you are entering their 
turf, and perhaps interrrupting a pizza 
gangs conference on cars, girls, and fights. 
Overall, unless Napolis is your hangout, 
youll probably feel a little bit like a bother.
Sor there you have it. Relatively unscath
ed, Ive emerged from the belly of this ugly 
war to deliver a fair and true account of the 
pizza underground. What Ive found is 
acutually no such a stark discovery. After 
recovering from my trek, I looked up piz
za in the Yellow Pages to view the propagan
now that if you dont happen to know 
taste then you cant possibly enjoy it. 
guess is that most pizza lovers dont knot 
the taste. Napolis boasts that they are Tl* 
Home of the Flying Pizza. Such a ridiculous 
statement echoes their sense of taste and am 
biance. Finally, Mineos simply states Voted 
Best Pizza for the 4th year by the readen 
of Pittsburgh Magazine 1983. All is quietp 
on the Squirrel Hill front. We have a winnetlj
1
SI
rf
oi
H
h<
01
iNEWS ON BOOZE
SfiiJsord ey 77/^ c*JtJoC
ALCOHOL10:00 -10:3010:30 -11:0011:00 -11:3011:30 -12:0012:00 -12:1512:15 -1:151:15 -1:451:45 -2:452:45 -3:153:30 -4:154:15 -4:454:45 -5:30
AWARENESS/EDUCATION DAY INFORMATION SESSIONDR. LORRIE RABIN , DIRECTOR, CMU COUNSELING CENTER EDWARD SPINNENWEBER, PENNSYLVANIA state trooperDRIVING SIMULATIONSBREAK WITH MOCKTAILS f For more inform-DR. LARRY SUTTON , national draeger ( tin see The Gree DRIVING SIMULATIONS \^View on page 4.GREG TESLOVICH, SAFETY MANAGER, WEST PENN AAADRIVING SIMULATIONS NATIONAL COUNCIL ON ALCOHOLISM CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY POLICE OPEN DISCUSSION
---------------
!
I 
in & sHi:
M
tra
cia
Ra

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
ing and Straub miss with The Talisman
CURT WOHLEBER
 StaffwrUer
Take two hugely popular writers of first-rate fantasy, 
ipense, and horror and what do you get? Well, in the 
of Stephen King (The Shining, Christine) and Peter 
aubs (Ghost Story, Floating Dragon) best-selling col
oration, The Talisman (Viking Books, $18.75), the 
iults are interesting, imaginative, but ultimately 
satisfying.
The Talisman is part typical Stephen King creepywly horror story and part medieval fantasy quest
c. It is the story of 12 year-old Jack Sawyer. From 
edy Parker, an aging ex-jazzman and amusement 
rk custodian, Jack learns about a magical world 
own as The Territories, part of an alternate universe 
existing with ours on a different plane of reality 
imething like the land of Phaze in Piers Anthonys Apntice Adept series).
ographically, the Territories resemble our own 
rid, but it has a smaller population, a medieval 
ture, and is inhabited by an assortment of strange 
Id generally dangerous creatures. Some people, Jack
I ds out, have doubles or Twinners living in the TerBaries. One such person is Jacks mother, an over-theII B-movie actress who is dying of cancer. Her TerBaries counterpart, it turns out, is the Queen of the
 ler world, and she too is dying.
i lacks mission, should he decide to accept it, is to save 
Ith his mother and the Queen of the Territories by
 overing a magical item called the Talisman, the axis 
all possible worlds. If he fails, mother and queen will 
jiH and a great evil will befall both worlds. Jack is taught
to flip between the two universes and he embarks 
H a cross country trek through both worlds to find the 
Hsterious and powerful artifact, 
prhis is the stuff of fun, mindless, late-night reading. 
H effective aura of gray foreboding (a Stephen King 
H demark) is created at the beginning, and the first part 
Hiacks odyssey, where he encounters unearthly menaces 
in the Territories and Dickensian child-exploitation in
Photo by Andrew Unangst, Courtesy of Viking Penguin Inc.
Stephen King and Peter Straubs The Talisman is in
teresting and imaginitive, yet ultimately unsatisfying.
our world, is absorbing. Thus the first half of The 
Talisman is a good 300 pages of light entertainment.
Unfortunately, the book is over 600 pages long, and 
things degenerate steadily in the second half. Somewhere 
along the way King and Straub seem to forget the mean
ing of the word subtlety as they subject the reader to 
a mind-numbing succession of werewolves, radioactive 
fireballs, mutant dogs, alligator people, malevolent 
fungi, demons and numerous insects. The no-holds bar
red assault of cliff-hanging horror, rife with brutality, 
sadism, scores of mutilations, dismemberments and 
festering sores quickly becomes tedious and contrived.
When Jack finally reaches the resting place of the 
Talisman, the excess of grotesquery and Gothic imagery 
becomes stultifying. The villains (the ex-business part
ner of Jacks late father, and a sadistic TV evangelist) 
are nicely nasty at first, but eventually devolve into 
obscene buffoons. The story is resolved in a series of 
multiple climaxes that dilute the suspense.
The mixture of horror and herioc fantasy doesnt 
come off. Unlike J.R.R. Tolkiens Middle Earth, the Ter
ritories are not sufficiently realized for the reader to 
believe in; they seem almost like a hastily-constructed 
movie set on a Universal Studios backlot.
And speaking of movies, it has often been said that 
Stephen Kings books read like novelized screenplays 
(and no junk-movie season is complete without one or 
two King adaptions), and this collaboration is no ex
ception. The narrative is extremely visceral, consisting 
of moods, colors, and repeated images: The sand turn
ed faster and faster, in a hissing fury. 
Hhhhhhaaaaahhhhhhhh was the sound the sand made. 
Jack stared at it, fascinated at first, then horrified. The 
sand was opening like a large dark eye: it was the eye 
of the gull that had dropped the clam on the rock and 
then pulled the living meat out of it like a rubber band. 
The action is fast-paced; critical exposition is provided 
sporadically in fragmentary flashbacks. This type of pro
se can be effective when used with restraint, but here 
the rococo writing seems overly affected and becomes 
rather annoying after a few hundred pages.
The character of Jack Sawyer undergoes considerable 
growth in The Talisman, but not in any way the reader 
can relate to. Jack becomes imbued with the spirit of 
Jason, the late son of the Queen and his own Twinner. 
This aspect makes him a charismatic leader in the Ter
ritories, but in the real world it makes him the target 
of amorous advances by middle-aged men.
Both King and Straub have written much better than 
this; with The Talisman, the whole is somewhat less than 
the sum of its authorial parts.
luesman Collins plays DecadeWsot top 0 glbums
show featured concert footage shot this sum
mer at the famous Capital Theater in 
Passiac, New Jersey.
Albert Collins has received many awards 
and honors for his work. The International 
Blues Foundation has voted him Best Blues 
Instrumentalist and Best Male Blues Ar
tist. His 1983 release Dont Loose Your Cool 
was named as Best Blues Album of the 
Year. Three of his albums have been 
nominated for Grammy awards.
A blues legend is coming to Pittsburgh, 
and blues and rock fans alike will not want 
to miss what promises to be a-memorable 
performance from Albert Collins and the 
Icebreakers.
More Concerts
Pat Travers rocks Mancinis on 
January 30. Tickets are $6 at the door.
REO Speedwagon rolls into the Civic 
Arena in its half-house setting with 
special guest Survivor on February 
11. Showtime is 7:30, and tickets at 
$13.75 are on sale now at Civic Arena 
Gate 1, Kaufmanns, and selected 
Record Outlets.
Rodney Dangerfield gets no respect 
at the Syria Mosque on February 16th 
at 7:30 and 10:00. Tickets are $13.75 
and $16.00, and are available at the 
Mosque, Kaufmanns and selected 
Record Outlets.
Autograph plays Mancinis on 
February 22nd. Tickets are $6 at he 
door.
Deep Purple conquers the Civic 
Arena on February 24th. Tickets went 
on sale Monday at the Arena, Kauf
manns and selected Record Outlets.
1. Shockabilly
Vietnam
2. Laurie Anderson 
United States Live
3. Dalis Car
The Waking Hour
4. Malcolm McLaren 
Fans
5. The March Violets 
Natural History
6. The Flying Lizards 
Top Ten
7. The Replacements 
Let It Be
8. The Milkshakes 
They Came They Saw
9. The Droogs 
Stone Cold World
10. Bunnydrums 
Holy Moly
On this day in 
Rock and Roll...
January 29
(1979) San Diego teen Brenda 
Spencer makes national headlines 
when she suddenly begins shooting 
at people after school. After killing 
two, she states the reason for her out
burst as "I don't like Mondays, which 
becomes the title for a hit by the 
Boomtown Rats.
  
This week in Rock and Roll marks the 
deaths of Buddy Holly, Ritchie 
Valens, and the Big Bopper on 
February 3, 1959, and Sex Pistol Sid 
Vicious on February 2, 1979.
Adam Han in
Photo by Michael Weinstein
 les ^eSend Albert Collins plays the Decade next Tuesday
jr TOPP EJN AJNbH
to the Tartan 
I Albert Collins, a bluesman whose perfornces have electrified audiences in the 
I^Urope, and Japan, will be appezfring
 Te ^ecade on Atwood Street in Oakland 
I Uesday> February 5th. Showtime is 11:30el *.>1J ay^g his patented Cool Sound, ColI as emerged as a legendary blues 
I tanst> earning the nicknames The
I I"," ^ecaster and Mr. Trust. y e combines icy echoes, ringing sus> and minor chord tuning with express
1 PWer His emotional playing has made 
a avorite among blues fans and musiy ^eAlbert King, Eric Clapton, Stevie 
U auShn, and John Lee Hooker all name 
s as one of their favorite guitarists.
Collins live performances are not limited 
to his guitar prowess. Aided by his 100 foot 
long guitar cord, Collins prowls the stage, 
and strolls out into the audience. He has 
been known to share a beer at the bar, sit 
in a fans lap, or even wander out onto the 
sidewalk to play blistering leads while sur
rounded by cheering fans.
In the past year, Collins has toured Europe 
with his band, the Icebreakers, for the 11th 
time. There he played in front of packed 
houses in Italy, Switzerland, and West Ger
many. His most recent album, Live ip 
Japan, was recorded in front of 40,000 fans 
in Tokyo.
Collins recently appeared on MTVs Rock 
Influences program with his friend George 
Thorogood and other blues greats such as 
Willie Dixon and John Lee Hooker. The

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanJanuary 29, 1985
Puzo's Sicilian keeps you in suspense
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Staffwriter
Fifteen years ago, Mario Puzo introduc
ed Americans to the world of the Mafia 
through his bestselling novel, The God
father. Anyone who remembers the book can 
tell you of Don Corleone, better known as 
the Godfather, and his keen sense of power 
and vengeance. Well, Mario Puzo is at it 
again, as his latest bestseller, The Sicilian, 
hit the market at Christmas time. Millions 
flocked to bookstores trying to satisfy their 
curiosity as. to how the Godfather Saga 
would finally come to end.
However, when these readers eventually 
got a hold of a copy they were in for a sur
prise. The Sicilian takes place in Italy, and 
focuses on the life of Turi Guiliano, a hand
some young vigilante, but barely touches on 
the famous Corleone family in America. 
Thats not to say that readers will be unhapnnnnnnnnm
py with the book, since Puzos ability as a 
story teller quickly captures attention and 
keeps the reader in suspense. The book is fast 
paced entertainment from cover to cover.
Turi Guiliano, the focal character, is a 
dark intelligent Sicilian whose gentle nature, 
animal instincts, and good looks bring the
mramm
reader to his side. The story begins with the 
adventures of Turi and his cousin Aspanu 
Pisciotta as they battle the injustices done 
to the poor natives of Sicily by robbing the 
wealthier inhabitants of Montelepre.
The story revolves around the conflict bet
ween Don Croce Malo, the head Mafiosi of
Sicily, and Guiliano. The climax acckl aft* 
Turi oversteps his bounds and murders f| 
of Don Croces top mafia leaders. The D< 
his honor and respect in jeapordy, is force 
to bring Turi to defeat.
The end of the story is quite a surprise 
Although Turis death seemed inevitabfe 
against the powerful Don Croce Malo 
two thousand carabinieri, several turns 
the plot close the story on an ironic yet tragi 
note.
For all those interested in reading 
young heroes, bloody Mafioso battles, stroq 
family ties, and century-old codes of honoi 
this book has something for you. But 
be disappointed if you end up feeling thj 
the Corleone s have taken a back seat 
Guilaino. In The Sicilian, the Godfather L 
little or no significance, and Mr. Puzo r 
have done better by leaving him out 
together.
Real Live"
Bob Dylan is in top form on new album
By KRISTOPHER KOHUTH
Tartan Staffwriter
Pop music fans beware: Bob Dylan has 
released a great new live album and you 
dont deserve to hear it. On Real Live hes 
in top form; not-so-gently rocking us back 
to the days of Highway 61 Revisited and 
Blonde on Blonde.
Real Live was recorded on last years well 
received European tour. The selections cover 
two decades of one of the greatest careers in 
music history. License to Kill and I and 
I are from his recent Infidels album, but 
most of the material is from his earlier six
ties recordings. To say that this is a retrospec
tive album, however, would be a gross 
misstatement. Dylan was a prophet of the 
sixties, but his songwriting was abstract 
enough to be appreciated even by our 
generation. Songs like Highway 61 
Revisited still sound relevant, and the most 
dated cut here, Ballad of a Thin Man, is 
saved from obscurity by Dylans trademark 
surrealism. Even Maggies Farm, with lines 
like I aint gonna work on Maggies farm no 
more has become the anthem of the antiMaggie Thatcher British Labour party.
On Real Live the songs have received
new life from a pure rock-and-roll treatment 
by Dylan and his band: ex-Rolling Stone 
Mick Taylor on guitar, Greg Sutton on bass, 
ex-Faces Ian McLagan on keyboards, and 
Colin Allen on drums. Dylans voice, which 
in the sixties was described as sounding like 
a cow with its leg caught in a fence, has 
become even harsher with thepassage of 
twenty years. Here his singing is as passionate 
as ever. He performs acoustic versions of 
Tangled Up in Blue and Girl from the 
'North Country. The albums finish is an in
credible Chuck Berryish Tombstone Blues, 
with Dylan and his band being joined by
Carlos Santana on guitar.
Books have been written on Dylan 
mythical impact on society. Hes been know 
for radical changes in musical style andfo 
playing musical chairs with religious beliefs 
Its easy to lose the fact that Dylan is ak 
one of the greatest performers in rock musit 
To hear Dylan sing an acoustic It Aint N 
Babe while thousands of fans sing tli 
refrain is a truly moving experience.
It seems strange that when over half of th 
album is over twenty years old, it has os 
of the freshest sounds of anything on th 
market.
A B Lectures
presents
An Evening withROBERT KLEIN
eonday, rebruary th 
8:00 pkmk nkibo yallroom
Tickets will go on sale Wed., Jan. 30th
; * '
at Skibo Info Desk 
$1.00 w/CMU ID, $2.00 w/o
Funded by 1

---------------------------------------------------

January 29, 1985The TartanPage 13
Forbes Gallery features student painters
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
Special to The Tartan
The Forbes Gallery will feature the work 
of three student painters this week. The ex
hibition, which features the work of seniors 
Kathryn Chan and Diane Thodos and junior 
Chris Mandros, opens tonight at 7:00.
Kathryn Chan displays her oil paintings 
as well as collages and water colors. Chan, 
yho is from Trinidad in the West Indies, 
derives many of the images in her work from 
ler personal background. Chans current 
vork makes specific use of the image of the
steel drum.
My work has always been based on the 
eople that I come from, said Chan, but 
this work is the first specific use of the steel 
Irum. It is representative of the land, the 
lusic, and the people.
Chan has spent four years in America and 
ias learned from her study of American 
jainting. I am trying to carry what I have 
learned back to my work on the West Indies, 
laid Chan.
The image of the steel drum is used 
jredominantly in abstraction in Chans 
vork. The drum has to be more than just 
alistic; it has to be my vision of it, said 
]han. The way the drum looks now, the 
Abstraction, has to do with my being away 
rom it.
The drum is Chans chosen image for 
lany reasons, including the fact that it 
[riginated in Tripidad and because Chan 
fcnds the number of drums in her homeland 
be a powerful repetition.
I think the drum represents the heartbeat 
|f the people, said Chan. The use of the 
keel drum is part of a ritual. People 
|nderline their identity with it and unite. 
Chris Mandros exhibits oil paintings and 
[:ulptures. Mandros paintings consist mainr of figurative landscapes in vibrant colors.
Mandros began to paint landscapes as a 
movement to something more concrete 
than the abstracts he had previously 
painted.
Right now the landscapes are something
I can use, something concrete, although they 
are starting to move to the slightly more 
abstract, said Mandros.
Mandros sculptures are abstract wood 
constructions that are created by gluing 
together wood pieces, then removing or 
altering pieces to create the final work.
I am trying to treat wood sculpture as 
more fluid than it really is, said Mandros. 
In one of his pieces, entitled Hairpiece, 
Mandros has created a flat, long shape that 
expresses his desire for form.
The form is what I really like about it, 
said Mandros. The option for humor is 
there, but its not slapstick.
The main part of Diane Thodos work is 
pieces she completed while in France dur
ing the Fall of 1984. Thodos displays pain
tings, prints, drawings, and collages.
Thodos work is reflective of the things she 
began noticing while studying and working 
in Paris. I began to notice the proportions 
in French architecture and design, said 
Thodos. Everything there is the result of a 
long historical evolution. There is a reason 
for each thing to be designed the way it was. 
Thodos new awareness included a greater 
understanding of derivation. I can see a lot 
of places now where American culture bor
rowed from French traditions, and where
our sense of proportion came from, said 
Thodos.
In a painting entitled Shield Painting, 
Thodos examines with color and form a 
shape she found particularly interesting  
and prevalent  in France: that of the 
shield from a coat of arms.
The spaces between things are the main 
subjects of Thodos work, which she believes 
has evolved from the laws of visual represen
tation in becoming more abstract. I would 
say that my work is abstractly figurative, 
said Thodos.
Kathryn Chan, Chris Mandros, and Diane 
Thodos will display their work at the Forbes 
Gallery until February 3. Gallery hours are 
11:00 to 6:00 Wednesday-Friday, and noon 
to 5:00, Saturday and Sunday.
Strong sounds from old and new
By MARK ISKOWITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
1. The Bluebells  Sisters (Sire)
This debut LP by Scottish folk popsters 
The Bluebells captures the frustration of 
youth and lashes out at the injustices they 
know all too well. Frenzied singer Robert 
Hodgens resembles countryman Roddy 
Frame one moment and latter day Bob 
Dylan the next. The band mixes an original 
dose of traditional highland instruments and 
modem electricity. After several personnel 
changes, this young band has finally 
discovered an appealing sound with wellcrafted songs, like Red Guitars and Young 
At Heart.
2. Arthur Blythe  Put Sunshine In It 
(Columbia)
This is a beautiful, celebratory work, a 
wonderous collaboration between jazz saxman Blythe and producer/arranger/instrumentalist Todd Cochran. Synths and
computer drums complement the richness 
of Blythes alto sax, particularly on Uptown 
Strut. While Stanley Clarke guests on the 
Theme from Diva, his is merely a backup 
role behind the magic of Blythe and 
Cochran. Assured to lift your spirits.
3. Hula  Murmur (Red Rhino UK) 
Repop? This British three-man outfit
caricatures pop music while creating distur
bing, multi-layered paintings of primal emo
tions. It vibrates, rattles, and drones with 
cryptic lyrics and a pounding beat. Red 
Mirror uncovers Hulas peculiar tribal side. 
However, with so many unconventional and 
unpredictable aspects of this group, you just 
cant pin it down. As the album jacket at
tempts to explain, A focus sustained, 
desperate the state of play, only through 
relentless effort.
4. Nappy Brown  Tore Up (Landslide) 
A rhythm and blues singing legend
returns stunningly after a 14-year recording
hiatus. Backed by Atlantas Heartfixers, 
Brown romps through 11 fun-filled times, in
cluding Lemon Squeezin Daddy, an old 
original he never was permitted to record. 
Uptempo and slow songs are highlighted by 
Tinsley Elliss guitar and, of course, Nappy 
Browns full throttle delivery. American roots 
music is growing strong again.
5. The 700 Club  The 700 Club (Slither
ing Disc)
No, this band has no connection to goldplated TV preachers. Instead, the four 
tracks on this EP are obsessed with crazed 
sax playing a la Ornette Coleman and mad
cap multi-voiced utterances, while preserv
ing a dance beat. Famed baby rattler (take 
this anyway you choose) Stephen Ashman 
lends his mutant paws to the centerpiece, 
Dare To Be Boring. There is indeed vitali
ty left in Oakland, despite the Raiders 
absence.
Mark Iskowitz is Music Director for WRCT.
THE COMEDY OF
FRANKIE PACE
AS SEEN ON
JflHIRMY NIQHT LIVE
Activities Board 
Coffeehouse Committee Presents:
FRANKIE PACE
Wherrett Room, Skibo 
Friday, February 1 
8:00 pm
He is very funny!!
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

cmcoRP 
If you are a student 
in the college of fi 
ne arts, drop everyt 
hing and go buy your 
beaux arts ball tick 
et at the cfa box of 
fice. before it is too late,
Representatives from
NORTH AMERICAN INVESTMENT BANK 
OPERATIONS
will be on campus 
to discuss and answer questions 
about the
t C  , . '.\n
MANAGEMENT 
ASSOCIATE PROGRAM
Monday, February 4 
4:30  6:30 
Skibo Room 11
Refreshments will be served
Student Senate Office Hours
CITMCS
Larry BachTues4:30-5:30
Karen DeMelioWed6:30-7:30Michael BettTues . 5:30-6:30
David GoldsteinMon3:30-4:30Daniela CramerThurs 7:30-8:00
Colleen HarrisonMon10:30-11:30Virginia IckesTues 11:30-12:30
Cherie JagerskiWed11:30-12:30Jeff SollerWed 3:30-4:30
Michael KingTues12:30-1:30Cindy TaylorThurs 3:30-4:30
Edward MillerMon1:30-2:30
Tamal MukherjeeMon11:30-12:30CFA
Steven WellerThurs1:30-2:30
H&SSChrissy HynesTues 10:30-11:30
IM
Diana BiancoThurs10:30-11:30: *
Peter CohenFri11:30-12:30
Jacqueline PiscitelloThurs2:30-3:30Hilary DebroffMon 4:30-5:30
Bill Simmons
SUPA
Jean Novak
Thurs 12:30-1:30
Mon 12:30-1:30
Student Senate,
Working together, 
we get things done.

---------------------------------------------------

ifd for second.
Ifech outscores Thiel to break .500 mark in PAC
;v CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
rtan Sports Editor
The Tartan mens basketball team is playg well. CMU defeated Thiel, 85-75, for 
eir third victory in their last four games, 
hey are now third in the PAC with a 3-2 
nference record (5-9 overall).
John Taormina led a balanced attack with 
n points in each half for 20 points. Thiel 
me into the game as the best offensive 
am in the conference (76 points per game) 
|ut the worst defensively (82 points). CMU 
;ploited the defense and had five men in 
luble figures including Taormina, Richard 
[eff (17), Michael Stewart (14), Hart Colan (12), and George Debski (10).
Stewart had an excellent game despite 
13 shooting. He went 6-6 from the foul 
jripe and handed out seven assists. He 
ndled Thiels 1-3-1 half court zone press 
ry well, along with their regular 3-2 zone, 
lormina, who had four assists, and Stewart 
irked the ball well around the perimeter 
rly in the game, keeping the Tartans in the 
mtest as Victor Harp, the PACs leading 
, sank shot after shot.
Harp finished with 28 points, and Eric 
nderveen had 19, but Thiel scored just 
points off the bench. Tech had 17. The
meats had just 12 points from their guards;i rA/fir The
for the Tartans. Bart had five points, six re
bounds, two assists, and four steals. His 
defense led to many fast break opportunities 
which CMU converted.
It was the first time this season CMU put 
two good halves together in one game. Larry 
Andersons Tartans played solid fundamen
tal basketball. A scrappy full court press is 
going to gain much recognition in this con
ference. Andersons team has the quickness 
to press plus the big shot blocker to stop fast 
breaks in Hart Coleman.
Neff had his best game of the year. He 
showed very good touch around the basket, 
shooting eight of 12. He was an inside force, 
twice going up strong inside for three-point 
play opportunities.
The question is whether or not this young 
CMU team will continue to play this well, 
or will they go back to early season form. 
Or, as young teams should do, will they con
tinue to improve with every game. Stewarts 
quickness is a great asset, and if he continues 
to pass as well as he had in the previous two 
games, he can be a solid point guard. If he 
begins to hit his sweet-looking no-hit jump 
shot, he can be a great player.
The Tartans have the size and speed to be 
an excellent PAC squad. Do they have the 
consistency? Bethany Wednesday night and 
Grove City Saturday afternoon may give the
photo by Christopher D. Lewis
After one of his four steals, David Bart scores an uncontested layup. Bart had 17 points 
in a loss to Westminster late Saturday night, 71-61.
Basketball Box Score 
CMU 85 Thiel 75
ThielFGFTTPCMUFGFTTP
Sklencar2-40-04Waite2-71-25
Lewis4-110-08Neff8-121-217
Callihan4-84-812Coleman5-82-212
Harp12-244-728Taormina9-172-620
Vanderveen9-151-219Stewart4-136-614
Moran0-00-00Debski5-100-110
Briggs0-20-00Franklin0-02-22
Bonello1-30-02Bart2-51-35
Crytzer1-10-02
Miale0-00-00
Pilipovich0-20-00
Totals33-70 9-1775Totals35-7215-2485
FG%: T -.471, CMU.486.FT%: T -.529, CMUf _625.
Rebounds: T - 39 (Callihan 12), CMU - 52 (Waite 11). 
Assists: T  6 (Vanderveen 2), CMU  14 (Stewart 7). 
Halftime: CMU 41-35.
OverallWL Pet.GBPACWLPet.GBW&J123.800-W&J601.000Bethany68.4295^2CMU32.600Thiel59.3576V2Bethany32.60021/2CMU510.3337Hiram32.6002V2Hiram510.3337John Carroll23.4003 ViJohn Carroll312.2009Thiel14.20041/2Grove City212.1679ViGrove City05.0005 Yi
This Weeks Games
CMU 85 Thiel 75 
Westminster 71 CMU 61* 
Geneva 74 JCU 50*
WScJ 62 JCU 61
W&J 88 Bethany 82 
Hiram 99 Bethany 85 
Thiel 59 GCC 55 
Hiram 95 GCC 92 (2 O.T.)
* - non-conference
 photo by Christopher D. Lewis
g*C ^anderveen pulls down a rebound for Thiel. Vanderveen had 19 points.PAC Standings
Tartan Sports Schedule
Tuesday, Jan. 29, Womens Basketball; CMU at Hiram 
College, 5:30 p.m.
Wednesday, Jan. 30, Mens Basketball; CMU at Bethany 
College, 8:00 p.m. Radio: WRCT-FM, 88.3 
Fencing; CMU at PSU Fayette, 6:00 p.m.
Friday, Feb. 1, Womens Basketball; CMU at Seton 
Hill College, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, Feb. 2,Mens Basketball; CMlfivs. Grc^jd^ity 
College, 2:00 p.m., Skibo Gym. Radio: WRCTFM, 88.3.
Fencing; CMU vs. Cal St.-PA and Case Western 
at Cal-St. 11:00 a.m.
Swimming; CMU vs. Shepherd College, Gymnasium 
Pool, 1:00 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanJanuary 29, 1985
Val Sooky shows her jump-shooting free throw form.
Lady Tartans outplayed by Tomcats] as shooting continues to plague CMUl
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
The Thiel Wolverines came into Skibo 
Gymnasium on Wednesday with a head of 
steam and a wealth of talent, outplaying the 
Tartans from start to finish in a 73  42 
romp.
CMU (1-7) never led in the contest, but 
by as little as three in the first half. 
Michelle Schlegel paced the CMU offense 
with 9 of her team-high 13 points in the first 
But the defense was unable to 
contain the Thiel twin towers, Teresa Col
lins and Cynthia Bynum, who combined for 
39 points.
Tartan captain Laurie Arendas, who 
pulled down nine rebounds in an excep
tional individual effort, was pleased with the 
teams defensive effort against the conference 
leaders.
We knew our defense would have to hold 
so we concentrated on that part of our 
game. Our shooting definitely needs im
provement, remarked Arendas.
CMUs defense, led by the aggressive play 
of Monica Zalevsky, was running around in 
circles after Wolverine shooters who rarely 
missed. Bynum and Collins controlled the 
boards for Thiel, sparked by diminutive 
point guard Chris Gray, who penetrated the 
key effectively on several occasions. When 
the Tartans were able to stop the inside at
tack, Thiel called on Amy Moore to sink a 
long range jumper.
The margin between the two teams could 
have reached 21 points going into halftime, 
but junior guard Nancy Dilulio canned two 
15-foot shots in thtf'final minute to pull CMU 
to within 17. The Wolverines came out stor
ming in the second half, however, as Bynum 
slapped the opening tip-off to Collins for
one of her four uncontested lay-ups.
Poor passing by the CMU guards and I 
several critical turnovers allowed the! 
Wolverines to widen their lead. Down by 24 I 
the Tartans simply did not give up. TfJ 
defense continued to pressure the ball, forc. 
ing Thiel to connect from the foul line to I 
preserve the victory.
Were still in the rebuilding stage, but I 
were coming along, said Arendas, whorel 
mains among the league leaders with a 14.1 
points per game average. Our record mavl 
not show it, but were in every game fightingl 
down to
Laurie Arendas skies for the tap.
SHOTOKAN KARATE 
CLUB NOW FORMING 
BEGINNERS CLASSES
Tuesdays & Thursdays 7-9 Saturdays 11:30-1:30 Thistle Hall, Gym
by Edward Un
tuesdays & thursdays 7-9
Saturdays 1130 -130
v V  / vv.
thistle hall, gym ; ' J \ \v'  >. Vy"
...    Vvr*.  <*

---------------------------------------------------

January 29, 1985The TartanPage 17
"Kids" make big impression for Penguins
The Oakland Review is now accep
ting submissions of poetry, short fic
tion, one-act plays, essays, and blackand-white artwork and photographs 
for its 1985 edition. Submissions may 
be placed in care of the Editor, 
Oakland Review, at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk. For any questions or 
special accommodations call 
Cathleen Barnhart at 362-3787. 
Deadline for submissions is March 1.
Bv SUZANNE GRADISEK
Tartan Staffwriter
Mario Lemieux was the first player 
drafted in the National Hockey League and 
the Penguins number one draft choice. 
While Lemieux gets most of the publicity, 
the Penguins have two other number one 
draft choices this year, Doug Bodger and 
Roger Belanger. Both Bodger and Belanger 
are young, (18 and 19 respectively) hail from 
Canada and have promising NHL careers.
Bodger, 18, is a defenseman, while 
Belanger, 19, was drafted as a right wing but 
has played mostly center for the Penguins. 
Bodger was the ninth player taken in the 
draft, Belanger the sixteenth. Both players 
hail from Canada. Asked if they felt over
shadowed by the presence of Lemieux, each 
quickly replied, No.
(tMario does get most of the publicity, but 
that takes the pressure off me, said 
Belanger. Bodger said of Lemieux,He can 
get all th? publicity he wants, Ill just go out 
md play. Like Lemieux, both figure pro
minently in the Penguin lineup and are key 
elements in the Pens revitalization.
Doug Bodger has been skating since the 
of four and playing hockey since the age 
six. He credits his interest in hockey to his 
who played hockey when he was
They were playing, so I wanted to play, 
 At the age of 16 he began playing for 
ritish Columbia franchise of the CanaLeague (a league for develop
ing young players up to the age of 20) where 
he played until he was drafted by the 
Penguins. His hockey career made his life 
different from the normal high school stu
dent, but he feels that he didnt miss much. 
I do what everyone else does, its just that 
hockey is important to me and it takes a lot 
of time and effort to succeed.
Belanger has played hockey for 13 of his 
19 years. At the age of 16, he began playing 
in the Junior League for the London 
(Canada) team, then was traded to the 
Kingston franchise. The trade bothered 
him. No one likes to be traded, but it was 
for the better because I got to play more and 
get more experience, said Belanger.
Belanger credits much of his success to his 
parents. My father is a big hockey fan, he 
showed me a lot. My mother, well, she fed 
me well and showed me the ropes, he said.
Belanger admits that his life hasnt been 
that of the average 18 year old, but hes glad 
he stuck with hockey. I missed a lot of high 
school, especially my last year because I had 
a lot of work to get ready for the season. I 
couldnt go out and get drunk. I had to keep 
in shape.
Both Bodger and Belanger are all-around 
athletes. Ive played just about every sport, 
except tennis, said Belanger. They both play 
baseball in the summer. Belangers team was 
ranked second in British Columbia last 
summer.
Though they are interested in other 
sports, hockey always comes first. I really
photo by Christopher D. Lewis
Doug Bodger is one of the youngest NHL piayers at age 18.
COLLEGE NIGHT
photo by Christopher L>. Lewis
Pittsburgh rookie center Roger Belanger joked that he is investing his money to retire 
at 25 or 30.
work hard, especially on my slap shot, said 
Belanger. Bodger, known for his accurate 
shot, admits he also works hard to improve.
Bodger and Belanger are both happy to 
be playing for the Penguins, and they are 
adjusting to life in the NHL. "The guys on 
the team have been great, although they do 
tease me about my age. They call me The 
Kid, laughed Bodger, who is the youngest 
member of the team. There are a lot of lit
tle tricks that you have to learn to make it 
in the league. Its a lot of work, but hockey 
has been good to me, said Belanger.
Hockey has brought both Belanger and 
Bodger many opportunities that otherwise 
they may not have reached so early in life. 
Both are making quite a bit of money, are 
getting to travel all over the U.S. and 
Canada, and soon both are going to be the 
proud owners of new Corvettes. Still, they
lead somewhat modest lives. Bodger lives 
with Moe Mantha and his wife in Mount 
Lebanon, while Belanger lives with a fami
ly in Bethel Park. Both say they are investing 
most of their money instead of spending it, 
So I can retire at 25 or 30, joked Belanger. 
Bodger says the best thing about being in 
his position is not the money. I get a kick 
out of little kids asking me for my 
autograph.
Both players like Pittsburgh and its peo
ple. Everyone has been great, and the 
scenery in this area is really beautiful, said 
Bodger. They hope, however, that more peo
ple become interested in the Penguins. 
Hockey is really exciting. I hope more Pitts
burghers realize this and come out to sup
port us. It really does help the team to have 
lots of screaming fans, said Bodger.
or 
Name
See the hottest team in Pittsburgh battle Kansas City in 
the hottest indoor sport...lndoor Soccer. Students, faculty 
and staff present this coupon at the Civic Arena  Gate 
One and get one reserved seat ticket for just $5.00.
0rder in advance by sending Check or Money Order to:
SP'r|t College Night 
 vie Arena - Gate 7 
'ttsburgh, PA 15219 
S7.00 Value
Address
City____State.
Pittsburgh Spirit vs. Kansas City Comets 
Friday, February 1, 1985 
Civic Arena 8:05 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanJanuary 29. 1985
\ SAVE $2.00
on
\ PRECISION 
! HAIRCUT
IComplete with shampoo r 
styling 
Regularly $13.00
| Offer 
 Jan. j
expires ^Jfc
u 1983 Vyattir!OtftCJITIIK.
r HAVE COUPON
Forward Lanes now has
ALL-NIGHT BOWLINGfrom midnight to 5 am Fridays and Saturdays 
$20 per lane
in Squirrel Hillfor more information call 422.-5844
SEMESTER IN SPAIN
Not just for Spanish majors only, but for everyone: beginners, in between" 
students, and advanced. Put some excitement into your college career!!
your permanent street address
BEGINNER OR ADVANCED - Cost is about the 
same as a semester in a U.S. collage:$3,480. 
Price includes jet round trip to Seville from 
New York, room, board, and tuition com
plete. Government grants and loans may be 
applied towards our programs.
F-6
college you attend
your present street address
city state up |
If you would MM information on future pfOffMn 9^ I
psttwtwitl addrew below. 1
Live with a Spanish family, attend classes 
four hours a day, four days a week, four 
months. Earn 16 hrs. of credit (equivalent to 4 
semesters taught in U.S. colleges over a two 
year time span). Your Spanish studies will be 
enhanced by opportunities not available in a 
U.S. classroom Standardized tests show our 
students' language skills superior to students 
completing two year programs in U.S. 
Advanced courses also.
Hurry, it takes a lot of time to make all arrangements.
SPRING SEMESTER  Jan 30 - May 29 
FALL SEMESTER  Aug 29 - Dec 19 
each year
FULLY ACCREDITED  A Program of Trinity 
Christian College.
For full information  send coupon to:
SEMESTER IN SPAIN
2442 E. Collier S.E.. F-6 
Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 
(A Program of Trinity Christian College)
CMU loses to Pitt in a
THE BASICS OF THE ABORTION ISSUE
Speaker: Cecile Heckler, pro-life feminist, executive 
director of Pennsylvanians for Human Life Southwest 
Region.
Movie: A Matter of Choice
Place: The Wherrett Room, Skibo
Time: Thursday, Feb. 7th, 7:00^m
For more information call Chris keane, 621-2911
heartbreaker, 2- 7, as 
Tartans miss chances
photo by Dewey Rieder
Goalie Bob Kosakowski makes a key save on Pitt winger Marc Bowers.
Steve Derochers battles in front of goalie Bob Mattioli.
photo'by Dewey Riedo
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
Jim Lang scored two goals as the Pitt Pan
thers defeated the CMU Ice Tartans, 2  1, 
Sunday afternoon.
The game was a rematch of a 5  1 Pitt 
victory two weeks ago in which the referees 
lost control and many fights broke out. This 
was a well played, crisp checking game, 
although the third period was marred by 
penalties.
The lone Tartan goal was scored by 
defenseman John Barrett. Barrett beat 
goalie Bob Mattioli with a clean slap shot 
from the blue line. The puck slid low against 
the ice and past Mattiolis right leg. The goal 
came early in the third period.
CMU had many opportunities to tie the
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive I
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you warn, they must listen to what you want That s why at Great Expectations you'll lea\^ with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
WASH, CUT AND COLOR PERMS FOR
BLOW DRY ALL STYLES
$13.00 $25.00
(ANY LENGTH)
0C^GRCSTTCNPCcmrons
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
237 Atwood St. across the street from the Oakland Post Office. 
Mon., Tues., Wad. 10-7#Thur Fri. 10-9Sat. 9-6 
687-3600 e No Appointments  UNISEX HAIR SALON
game in the last period. The best opportun
ity came when Don Heyse took a pass from 
brother Bill Heyse in the slot but missed a 
backhand at an open net.
The Tartans had a two man advantage to 
end the game as they pulled goalie Bob 
Kosakowski and Pitt captain Damon Brown 
was in the penalty box serving a five-minute 
major for punching Sean McGinn. McGinn 
played smart and did not retaliate. The Tar
tans could not capitalize, and the game end
ed 2-1.
CMUs Friday night match with Gannon 
College was postponed due to inclement 
weather. It was rescheduled for Friday, 
February 8.

---------------------------------------------------

January 29, 1985The TartanPage 19
IM REPORT: All-School football team named
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Staffwnter
CURRENT SPORTS
IM basketball is now at full tilt; the season 
continues until February 28th. Darts regular 
season is coming to a close. Bowling came 
to a close this weekend. The winners were: 
Majors 1. DU-A 2. SAE-A 3. SAE Alumni 
4 TX-A, Intermediates: 1. PhiKap-A 2. 
ThetaXi-B, Minors: 1. SAE-C 2. TDP. Each 
team is reminded to pay $63.75 to Strand 
Alleys now, if not sooner.
OTHER SPORTS
In team table tennis, the Korean Student 
ssociation won the major league, with the 
uiche Eaters taking minor league honors.
In racquetball No Names won the majors 
and the KSA was the minor league cham
pion. Mike Fitzgerald of GSIA was named 
the MVP of IM soccer.
UPCOMING SPORTS 
The deadline has passed for pinochle and 
water basketball, which will be starting 
shortly, and for floor hockey, which will start 
after March 7. There will be an IM Floor 
Hockey Managers meeting this Wednesday, 
January 30th at 4:30 pm in Thistle Hall. All 
IM floor hockey teams must attend this im
portant meeting. The wrestling finals will be 
held Saturday, February 16th in Thistle 
Hall.
UPCOMING DEADLINES
wimmers beat Bethany
jy BONNIE JACOBSON
irton Stoffwriter
The Tartan swimmers improved their 
ecord, now 3-3, by beating Bethany Col
lege 73-40 in a dual meet January 23. This 
fleet, which took place at Bethany, was a 
varm-up for the Kenyon Invitationals on 
January 25 and 26.
Last year at the Kenyon Invitationals, 
]MU finished eighth overall with fine inJividual showings by Gina Illig, eighth 
Dverall among women, and Steve Francis, 
vho took the gold in the 100 meter freestyle. 
This year approximately twelve teams are 
Anticipated to participate and the Tartans
NSIDE TEKTRONIX
; 1 IlUJ
Last call for IM handball, final entry 
deadline date Wednesday, January 30th. All 
pool and table tennis (singles and doubles)
entries are both due February 7th.
The next IM board meeting will 
Thursday, February 7 at 2 pm.
be
CMU INTRAMURAL TOUCH 
ALL-SCHOOL FOOTBALL TEAM
OFFENSE
Receiver  Dave Lynch [BETA]
Center  Rick Ferraro [PKA]
Receiver  Brian Dooley [ATO] 
Blocking Back  Matt Feldman [ATO] 
Blocking Back  Jim Ryan [BETA] 
Quarter Back  Rick Trombetta [PKA]
DEFENSE
Rusher  Rob Cortazzo [BETA]
Rusher  Wayne Lucas [ATO] 
Linebacker  Jim Rodgers [BETA] 
Comer Back  Wayne Hollock [PKA] 
Comer Back  Mark Weinstein [PKA] 
Safety  Joe Honse [PKA]
hope to make a strong showing.
Francis, Illig and sophomore Mike Fit
zgerald are working on leading the team to 
a first place finish in the PAC Champion
ships. Last year the Tartans finished at an 
all time high of second place. They also hope 
to qualify individually for the Nationals at 
Emory University in March. Francis ac
complished this last year in the 100 and 200 
meter freestyles.
The Tartans next dual meet is Saturday, 
February 2, against Shepherd College here 
at CMU at 1:00 p.m.
Coverage of the Kenyon Invitational will 
be in next week's Tartan.
Kicker  John Rickert [BETA]
Most Valuable Player  Rick Trombetta  Quarter Back [PKA]
OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT
WORLD-SIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN! 
JAPAN - EUROPE - AFRICA * AUSTRALIA - THE SOUTH 
PACIFIC - SOUTH AMERICA - THE FAR EAST.
EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! 
FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS!
More than 300,000 Americans Japan, Africa, The South 
 not including members of Pacific, The Far East, South
the armed services  are 
now living overseas. These 
people are engaged in nearly 
every possible activi
ty...construction, engineer
ing, sales, transportation, 
secretarial work, accoun
ting, manufacturing, oil 
refining, teaching, nursing, 
government, etc .-etc. And 
many are earning $2,000 to 
$5,000 per month...or more!
To allow you the op
portunity to apply for 
overseas employment, we 
have researched and compil
ed a new and exciting direc
tory on overseas employ
ment. Here is just a sample 
of what our International 
Employment Directory 
covers.
(1). Our International 
Employment Directory lists 
dozens of cruise ship com
panies, both on the east and 
west coast. You will be told 
what type ot positions the 
cruise ship companies hire, 
such as deck hands, 
restaurant help, cooks, 
bartenders, just to name a 
few. You will also receive 
several Employment Ap
plication Forms that you 
may send directly to the 
companies you would like to 
work for.
(2). Firms and organiza
tions employing all types of 
personnel in Australia,
America...nearly every part 
of the free world !
(3). Companies and 
Government agencies 
employing personnel in near
ly every occupation, from 
the unskilled laborer to the 
college trained professional 
man or woman.
(4). Firms and organiza
tions engaged in foreign con
struction projects, manufac
turing, mining, oil refining, 
engineering, sales, services, 
teaching, etc., etc.
(5). How and where to ap
ply for overseas Government 
jobs.
(6). Information about 
summer jobs.
(7). You will receive our 
Employment Opportunity 
Digest...jam-packed with in
formation about current job 
opportunities. Special sec
tions features news of 
overseas construction pro
jects, executive positions 
and teaching opportunities.
90 Day Money 
Back Guarantee 
Our International Employ
ment Directory is sent to you 
with this guarantee. If for 
any reason you do not obtain 
overseas employment or you 
are not satisfied with the job 
offers...simply return our 
Directory within 90 days and 
well refund your money pro
mptly...no questions asked.
ORDER FORM
International Employment Directory 
131 Elma Dr. Dept. T21 
Centralia. WA 98531
Please send me a copy of your International Employment 
Directory. I understand that I may use this information for 90 
days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return 
your Directory for an immediate refund. On that basis Im 
enclosing $20.00 cash.... check.... or money order ... for your 
Directory.
NAME
ADDRESS
pleas prim
CITY
__________ _ _ APT#
STATE _ ... .. .
International Employment Directory 1984
ZIP
A JOURNEY INTO THE FUTURE
Tektronix develops manufactures 
sells ana services a broad Ime of eiec 
tromc measurement display and con
trol instruments and systems that are 
used worldwide *n science industry 
and education
you are graduating with a deqree n 
Computer Science and Electrical 
Engineering we nvite you to the follow
ing event
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
February 12. 1985
It you are unable to meet with us 
please contact Tektronix inc Corpo
rate College Relations Y6-044 P Q 
Box 500 Beaverton OR 97077
We are an equal opportunity employer 
m f h
Tfektronix
COMMTT TED TO EXCELLENCE

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Making CMU's 
streets safe
When the ground was first broken at the 
future site of Carnegie Tech in 1900, few of 
the people in attendance could have imagin
ed that a small but bustling industrial center 
could evolve into the cosmopolitan city which 
Pittsburgh has become. Fewer still could have 
guessed the problems which come with such 
urbanization. Though then, the Oakland area 
was considered a relatively quiet section of 
town, it now has the distinction of being the 
second heart of Pittsburgh, along with 
Shadyside and Squirrel Hill.
One of the problems with Oaklands new importance is the traffic flow in and around its 
universities. Forbes Avenue, one of the citys 
busiest streets, cuts right through the heart of 
Carnegie-Mellon, while Fifth Avenue, also a 
major traffic vein, is one of the main 
thoroughfares of the University of Pittsburgh. 
With the rash of accidents and near-misses in
volving buses and pedestrians which occurred 
at Pitt not too long ago, we now question the 
safety of our own campus, whose population 
must regularly cross these and other streets.
Our analysis of the traffic situation around 
the CMU campus (see front page) suggests ac
tion must be taken. There have been many 
near-accidents in the recent past, and each in
tersection of pedestrians and automobiles is like 
a time-bomb waiting to go off. If something 
isnt done, we would have only ourselves to 
blame for the injury or death which might oc
cur from an unfortunate collision which could 
have been avoided.
But the streets are out of our jurisdiction. 
Because they are city property, we have no 
right to put up traffic signs or paint caution 
zones. Even Margaret Morrison Street, almost 
wholly within the confines of University pro
perty, is not ours. And Chief of Security Robert 
Fadzen has encountered a foot-dragging 
bureaucracy blocking the way to a solution.
So what can CMU do?
CMU can take a detour. With all due 
respect to Mr. Fadzen, a University Security 
Chief might not have enough influence to con
vince the city government that we require 
assistance. Perhaps if enough pressure could 
be applied upon the City Planning Commis
sion by the school, we could make our streets 
safer that much sooner. And why shouldnt the 
city jump to help us, considering what the 
schools influence is bringing to Pittsburgh? In 
order to get the city to listen, we must get the 
CMU Administration to do the talking; in 
order to get the Administration to listen, we 
must take the issue to the Student and Facul
ty Senates.
There are many possible solutions to remedy 
the situation which we could bring to these 
legislative bodies. At the very least, the 25 mph 
speed limit should be enforced more rigidly; 
an officer could be brought in to direct traffic 
during the day; even a skywalk could be 
erected over Forbes Avenue. Margaret Mor
rison Street could be placed under CMUs 
jurisdiction, and traffic flow could be restricted 
during the day. If nothing else, speed limit 
signs should be put on Morrison and Tech 
Streets. Whatever the changes may be, it is im
portant to make them before a serious acci
dent forces our hand.
Did you hear a horn?
Introducing the new Acme Section
By STEPHEN YOLAN
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
We proudly announce a new section to our 
newspaper  the Acme Section. Acme (an acronym
for Announcements, Classifieds, Miscellaneous and 
Events) is a new twist on the standard classified-ads 
page. Besides listing the regular paid classified adver
tisements, the section also contains a comprehensive 
list of events which will occur during the week. The 
events are listed by date; under each date heading, 
the events are organized in the following order:
1) Movies
2) Plays
3) Music
4) Dance
5) Sports
6) Recreation
7) Clubs
8) Lectures
9) Art
10) Fiction & Poetry
11) Community Events
Besides the regular movie and concert listings, the 
Events page will note club meetings, IM sports and 
varsity game information, and foreign films shown 
on campus; events at other campuses, as well as ma
jor city events; and special events such as Spring Car
nival, Homecoming and dorm events.
The most important feature of the new Events list 
is that there is no charge for placing a listing in the
section. We want the section to be as exhaustive n 
possible, so that anyone can open up The Tartan M 
find any event occurring that week within a one-busi 
ride-radius of campus. We feel that the Acme sec! 
tion as a whole will better serve the interests of you! 
the members of the CMU community.
If you wish to advertise your event in The Tartai 
send it in care of the Acme Editor, The Tartan, 10 
Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 8 
15213; send it via campus mail at the above addm 
drop it off at our offices in 50 Skibo; or send 
message to MEOP @ CMCCTC. No entries uitlli 
accepted over the phone.
Please include the following infqrmation wh* 
submitting events:
a) Title of Event
b) Sponsor
c) Brief Description
d) Location
e) Date and Time
In addition, include the name and phone numbi 
of the person submitting; this information will be* 
ed only to confirm the event.
The Tartan 5 not responsible for the accuracy1 
validity of any Events listings. In addition, it resert 
the right to edit or omit any listing for public^
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesim 
5 pm for the next week's issue. If you have anyc 
ments or suggestions, send them to any of the 
dresses listed above.
Letters: Redefining the "hacker
Editor:
1 was quite disappointed that at 
a university which brags of its 
computer-literate student body, 
an article so obviously computerignorant as Computer Spying 
was published. I am especially 
referring to the misuse of the 
words hacker and hacking in 
the article, but I believe that the 
article indicates something deeper 
than a mere misunderstanding of 
a slang term. It reveals an at
titude becoming more and more 
prevalent on this campus, that the 
main purpose of hackers is to try
to crash systems, steal passwords, 
embezzle money, or change their 
grades with computers. I do not 
believe I am alone in assuming 
that a hacker is simply someone 
who enjoys programming or 
working with computers. 
However , phrases such as 
Unauthorized access is the legal 
term for hacking, among other 
similar remarks made in the ar
ticle in question, reflect a strong 
feeling that the main goal of those 
with an interest in computers is 
malice. There is a place for 
hackers, the article claims, and
I agree. It is by the work I 
CMU hacker that I am al*l 
format the letter I am 
now and that everyone el#15 
to hand in pretty term paPeri. 
produce impressive-l 
resumes. I would hope that 
CMU community would 
effort to take a more intelr 
look at what the maj01^ 
hackers are involved in, ^
the narrow-minded at
reflected in the article.
Steve Vander 
Math/'

---------------------------------------------------

January 29, 1985The TartanPage 21
ut at least she's coping
Mews Editor caught free-associating again
By Karen Gray
Did you know that if you dial just one 
gjt wrong in the phone number for Capri 
izza, you get the CS front end? This is 
mething my co-worker, Al Dat;ri, happento mention to me around pi oclock when 
L were laying out The Tartan. 
Interesting, I thought, that a source of
stress (Computer Science) could somehow be 
so close to a coping mechanism(pizza). Then 
I began to think about coping mechanisms 
in general.
One popular coping mechanism on this 
campus has to be changing ones clothing 
at two-hour intervals throughout the day. 
The pile of clean wrinkled items colonizes
obias blasts the Shuttle
By Dan Tobias
Most students who live in CMUs offimpus apartments, or other nearby housg have had to use the Shuttle and Escort 
rvices at least on occasion. Many rely on 
iese services to get to and from campus on 
daily basis. Thus, it is important that 
(liable service be provided. Unfortunately, MU Security, which runs these services, 
Ls not seem to always do everything they 
In to make these services as good as they 
luld be.
IA major problem is with the maintenance 
[the vehicles. They seem to be out of order 
i excessive amount of time, causing much 
ruption in service. Much of this might be 
lestalled by establishing a regular schedule 
| preventative maintenance, perhaps takr place over vacations, weekends, and 
1er offpeak times, in which each bus and 
h is thoroughly checked and problems are 
Jed before they become major. Instead of

, the present system appears to be to 
w the vehicles to deteriorate until they 
come unusable, then apply a quick fix to 
t them working again; they usually break 
Iwn again after a short time, often with the
exact same problem as they had before, 
which was never fully corrected.
Another reason why service is sometimes 
unreliable is student drivers who do not 
always show up when they are scheduled to 
work. This is particularly common during 
Finals week. It is unfortunate that just when 
students can least afford to have to spend ex
tra time walking between the campus and 
their rooms, is when the shuttle and escort 
are most frequently cancelled. There are 
many things that can be done to solve this 
problem. One is to have a long list of 
substitute drivers who can be called upon if 
the scheduled driver does not show up. 
Another is to attempt to impress on the pre
sent drivers the concept that their job is a 
responsibility, and that CMU should not 
tolerate drivers failing to show up on time 
unless they have a valid excuse, and they 
should make every effort to notify Security 
in advance if they are actually unable to 
work.
There are some other less urgent things 
which I feel Security should consider chang
ing. One is the schedule, which seems to 
continued on page 22
behold the SEI (read: 
)oD software factory)
VIEWPOINT: Christopher Johnston
s CMU turning into a war whore? Given 
signing of a $103 million contract with 
Department of Defense (DoD) last 
th which provides for the creation of a 
ware Engineering Institute (SEI), we all 
t help but be suspicious. Add a heady 
of garbled and evasive bull by CMU adistrators and SEI officials as to what will 
r at SEI, and we can be pretty sure 
ething sneakys going on. 
ese yes-persons are content to point out 
it is designed to benefit the whole (read: 
flunkies) software (weapons system 
ufacturers) community (large corporaThat students (not undergrads or 
Jgners) will be able to be part of this softUtopia (Armegeddon). That their 
^ purpose is to take all the great new 
Pineal ideas (devious nightmares) that 
s ^eard-scratching computer science 
Jtemics can conjure up, and turn them
 practical projects for the general benefit 
[ankind (sleek new death machines to be 
n random populations in selected 
fd-Worid countries) with the help of 
rlY CEDs from benevolent conservative 
jnca (frothing deathmongers of the 
rical right).
e ne unconfused thing administrators 
said is that the SEI wont be working 
fy WeaPns systems and Im actually 
and foolish enough to believe that. Of 
r? ^lat they will do is turn over proI ey work on to defense contractors who 
[ turn make the DoD weapons. To me,
bn -Kre COward,y than simply taking 
P^ibility for what SEI will eventually be 
^t rings of Pontius Pilate washing up 
nyinS ^ponsibility for the Jesus
the bed, covers parts of the floor space, and 
eventually encompasses a chair or two. 
Thats great, but the real loss is in failing 
to recognize the clean from the dirty and 
repeatedly washing clean clothes. This 
results in clothes you dont remember often 
wearing, often falling apart mysteriously 
early in their projected lifespans.
Sometimes when Im feeling particularly 
aggressive, I really enjoy going into Kiltie 
with a pushy, nasty attitude. Its fun cutting 
past salad eaters where the traffic merges in 
front of that carrot/mayonnaise/raisin 
thing. I also like getting people to scoop ice 
cream for me out of one of the cylindrical 
glaciers which rest in their icebox.
When I walk to class, I often cope with 
the fact that Im not asleep by trying to use 
Doherty Hall to get everywhere. I dont 
know, theres just something about walking
through Doherty that makes me feel like Im 
going fast. Im sure that the assembly-line 
slanted floors propel me along. This is a 
helpful but dangerous coping mechanism, 
however, as it has the built-in requirement 
of having to see a giant 5 or 6 every day 
of your life. Now Ill probably receive an in
dignant letter from the 7 people who have 
lectures in Wean 7500, that protruding 
block thing which overhangs that halls en
trance. Now, think of how close Wean 7500 
actually is to the gently sloping frisbee/football hills. That strikes me as even more 
ironic than Capri Pizzas odd link with Com
puter Science. Run, weary lecture goers, 
drill a hole through the front wall of Wean 
7500 and jump out, just once!
Karen Gray is a sophomore in English who 
is attempting to cope. She is also News 
Editor of The Tartan.
Tartan Complaint Dept
Lewis: Registering, 
maiming, sinking...
At a recent press conference, SEI officials 
snuck around this problem by making an 
analogy to building a car: SEI makes the 
tools which are sold to the people who make 
the car. Its like building a socket wrench or 
something, right?
Wrongo. I find this logic amazing. 
Creating tools for defense contractors to 
make weapons is more like giving bullets to 
a crazy man with a rifle, an itchy finger, and 
a moral (as well as mental) above his neck.
Intellectual freedom is at issue as well: 
Despite the emphasis that is put on faculty 
to win the laurels of their respective research 
communities, most maintain a sense of 
ethics in relation to their work. They dont 
like being told what to do, and they like to 
exchange ideas with their colleagues. Most 
also sense the importance of passing their 
knowledge on to students who will later bear 
the torch of R&D. All this, as well as the im
portant process of blowing ones own horn 
prior to seeking tenure, is in peril.
The DoD is a big, fat, slobbering 
bureaucracy (BFSB) which will review all 
academic papers that are progeny of SEI 
. research prior to publication. Administrators 
quickly add that those same BFSBocrats can 
do nothing to stop publicationbut theyre 
wrong. The first thing they will probably do 
to some upstart researcher, who balks at at
tempts to suppress publication of his or her 
paper, is to cram a heavy dose of Mom-andapple-pie down his neck. If that doesnt 
work, there are the usual harassments any 
organization can impose on an individual: 
Everybody hates you, no raises, and no 
tenure. Finally, the one thing that would 
hurt the most: not being able to work on any
By Christopher D. Lewis
A couple of points need to be made. Do 
not bring your complaint to me and expect 
it to get solved. It is important to bring your 
beef direcdy to the people who can help you.
I will publicize your complaints, 
but I cannot solve them myself. 
And if someone knows how to 
find a solution, send those too.
Also, a comment about last week. When 
I mentioned you could get stuck next to a 
balloon on New Years Eve, that was not im
plying I was next to a balloon. It was dif
ficult explaining that to my girlfriend after 
a couple of her friends interpreted it that 
way. I was speaking only in generalities.
Thanks to those who voiced their com
plaints this week. I received an anonymous 
letter complaining about the noise in the 
library. I had touched on that earlier in the 
year, but this person has some interesting 
suggestions.
First, this person suggests real big signs 
that say absolutely no talking, (including 
whispers, wise ... ). If that doesnt work, 
perhaps armed security guards would do 
the trick. He/she also thinks students should 
be given the freedom to maim other 
students who are talking in the library. 
Perhaps a bit harsh. Will the talkers please 
have some consideration?
Rumors have it that Skibo is sinking. Now 
Joe Hasper tells me the flagpole is sinking. 
Is CMU trying to duplicate the Leaning 
Tower? I wouldnt want to be walking under 
him/her.
Why does the government always seem to 
hurt us every time they try to help us ? The 
AT&T thing is the perfect example. The 
government breaks up this monopoly for the 
good of the people. So what happens? Phone 
bills go up. How does that help people? How 
many of you have cut down on your long 
distance calls only to see your monthly 
charges double?
The Registrar has set registration for Fall, 
1985 for the week before finals. This is 
stupid. Teachers and students both have too 
much to do that week. You can do 
something about this. Walk by the Student 
Senate office and sign their petition. It is in 
the basement of Skibo, room 59. Go sign, 
it will save you time in the long run. A good 
example of doing something about a 
complaint.
Ill see you shivering around campus. In 
this weather, you have no choice but to have 
an annoying week.
Christopher D. Lewis is Sports editor of 
The Tartan and writes the Tartan Complaint 
Dept. Send letters to Chris Lewis, c/o The 
Tartan, Skibo 50.
Thebtan.
Opinion Tolicy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of indnndual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those o/The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of mdiinduat 
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
Copyright  1985 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy 
it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: Skibo 
50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52. (412) 
578 2112. 24 hour phone. (412) 578 2113. Mailing ad 
dress: Skibo 103, Carnegie-Mellon University. Pitts
burgh. PA 15213.
Funded by the Activities Fee. All rights reserved.
Editor-in-Chief .............Stephen Volan
Managing Editor...............Mike Pilewski
Business Manager .. John Friedmann
News Editor..........................Karen Gray
Features Editor....................Ric Medrow
Entertainment Editor................Al Datri
Sports Editor ... Christopher D. Lewis 
Photography Editor .... Mike Pilewski
Acme Editor ..................Mohan Embar
Art Manager........Michael A. Sussman
Business Manager ... John Friedmann 
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner
Typesetting Manager ____Jill Clelland
Asst. Business Mgr.____lohn Lumpkin
Asst. Art Mgr....................Mark Kissner
Asst. Typesetting Mgr. .. Joe Hasper
Contributing Editors: Peter Bain, Judy 
Merrill, Bonnie Topf, Pauline Wen
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Scot 
Allen, John Blanck, Dennis Cohen, Jennifer 
Even, Don Gamble, Paul Masalsky, Dan 
PeUish.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanJanuary 29, 1985
Senator has something for everyonMichael BettFrom the Chair
This weeks column has something for 
everyone, but I especially hope that if you 
are in the College of Fine Arts or you have 
a friend who is that you will read the first 
few paragraphs very carefully.
CFA: Student Senate, one of the most 
sought after organizations on campus, has 
full house with one exception: CFA. At this 
writing three CFA senate seats remain open. 
Petitions to fill the vacancies have been cir
culated and were due Friday at 5:00. Two 
were collected. This will leave one seat un
filled. Thus CFA again will be 
underrepresented.
You may question whether this is good or
bad, but let me tell you about a movement 
in Senate. It just so happens that several 
members of Senate want to see the vacant 
seats filled. In order to do this they are put
ting an amendment before Senate which 
would allow non-CFA students to represent 
CFA by collecting twenty five signatures 
from CFA students. My opinion is that this 
amendment would over-represent the other 
colleges and do nothing to help CFA, if not 
hurt it. If youre in CFA and youre saying 
to yourself you dont want to see that hap
pen, heres what you can do. Come to the 
Senate meeting tonight. Voice your opinion. 
Remember that silence will be taken as
Tobias knocks the off-campus Shuttle
continued from page 21
have some elements of senselessness. For ex
ample, they allow a flat five minutes in bet
ween each stop, despite the fact that the 
stops are variable distances apart. Hamp
shire Hall and Tudor/Carol are only about 
thirty seconds apart, for instance. A more 
reasonable scheduele, based on my ex
perience, would be: (using the 3:15 pm run 
as an example) Leave Skibo 3:15; Marybelle 
3:18; Shirley 3:20; Hampshire 3:25; 
Tudor/Carol 3:26; Shadyside Apts. 3:30; Ar
rive Skibo 3:35. Note that this leaves ten 
minutes leeway time before the bus must 
leave on its next run; Shuttle drivers have 
typically sat in front of Skibo for a long time 
under the present schedule to make up for 
the ridiculously long times alloted later in 
the schedule; this schedule makes such 
waiting time official.
The above schedule would not be perfect. 
More time should be alloted at rush hours, 
and bad weather might also make it hard 
to stay on schedule. (However, Im not sure 
they would be any more behind schedule 
than they are under the present system, since
many drivers defeat the purpose of the ex
tra time by waiting for a long time in Skibo 
before starting their run.) Also, some peo
ple might find it harder to catch the shuttle 
if it does not sit at some stops for a long time. 
However, I feel that they should at least con
sider trying out such a changed schedule to 
see if it is better or worse than the present 
one, rather than sticking blindly to the status 
quo.
I also find their weekend schedule confus
ing. While on weekdays the shuttle runs 
always leave Skibo at a quarter to and a 
quarter past the hour, the weekend schedule 
is a curious mix of some runs the same times 
as weekdays, and others which depart on the 
hour and half-hour. This is because they 
have dedided for some reason to allot a 
45-minute break to the drivers, instead of 30 
minutes as on weekdays. I dont understand 
the reasons behind this, and I also find that 
their afternoon break seems to always be just 
the time when I want to go home.
Dan Tobias is a junior in Applied Math 
and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Special
Interest
Houses
The Housing Office is now accepting applications from groups of students who would like to 
be considered for residency in one of the 4 Special Interest Houses.
Each Special Interest House is a 4-bedroom, 8-person apartment in the Margaret Morrison 
residence complex. In order to be eligible for consideration as a Special Interest House, a student 
group must have at least eight members, and one or two alternates if at all possible.
The specific goal of the Housing Office in providing the Special Interest Houses is to 
encourage situations where the living environment compliments the learning opportunities of the 
residents involved and where specific educational goals outlined by the member-residents are 
understood and enhanced.
If more than 4 groups of students submit applications for these Special Interest Houses, a 
decision will be based on a comparison of the educational goals presented and the likelihood of 
serious educational benefit being derived from residency in this type of living situation.
Application forms are available in the Housing Office aud must be filled out and returned by
BY FEB. 8th, 1985
consent.
Senate Meetings: This leads me into my 
next point. All over campus when I speak 
to students and invite them to attend Stu
dent Senate meetings, I continually hear the 
response Student Senate meetings are 
open?. Well, in a word yes. SENATE 
MEETINGS ARE OPEN. Enough said.
Faculty Senate: Speaking of open 
meetings, Faculty Senate will be having their 
next meeting this Thursday, January 31 at 
3:30 pm in the Wherrett Room. They will 
be discussing the Intellectual Property Policy 
which affects us in determining ownership 
and rights of what we design while at 
Carnegie-Mellon. This is another open 
meeting for all members of the university 
community. It might be a good place to 
bring some complaints.
Registration: We had a student complain 
last week about registration this semester be
ing the week before finals. This seemed like 
a valid complaint. After all, I dont want to 
register for next semester when Im trying 
to finish up this semester. Its one more 
headache I dont need. How about you; how 
do you feel? Let me know.
I said that you should let me know 
because when we went to the Registrar to get 
this changed (something weve done in the 
past), he said that one student complaint 
wasnt enough for him to move it. Thats 
because the departments seem to like to have 
it at the end of the term. In any case, bring 
me the complaints and we will get registra
tion changed. Leave them in my mailbox at
the Information Desk in Skibo or on 
Senate office door (Skibo 59). Have m 
than one person sign the complaint, 
more the merrier.
Highlander Pub: Im starting to feel 
a bulletin board, but I have another 
nouncement. The theme that was chosen 
the Campus Pub, at least tenatively, j 
Scottish Pub in the Carnegie tradition, 
proud to say that this was suggested by 
only CFA senator, Chrissy Hynes, 
thoughts were that this was a very crea 
idea and that we should fre able to matt 
really nice campus Spot. If you would 
to help on putting the pub together, or 
any ideas or suggestions youll be welo 
at todays meeting in the Highlander Roc 
at 5:30. If you come, just think next year 
could say I helped to put together theCai 
pus Spot . ..
I guess thats about it this week. Seiu 
will be meeting tonight at 7:00 pm in 
Wherrett Room. As well as the items liss 
above, we will be discussing next years 
pus calendar (the one that has us start 
after Labor Day and going until Deci 
21st in the. fall semester) and the park 
committees report. All members of thei 
pus community are invited to attend, 
question^, problems or observations 
welcome. Student Senate is here to help 
Michael Bett is a junior majoniy 
Mathematics and is Chairman of St 
Senate. Correspondence to him, or 
member of Senate, should be addrm 
Skibo 59 and sent through campus
Viewpoint: Johnston on SEI
continued from page 21
more projects of the magnitude that rebel 
researcher deserves.
Foreign students wont be able to work on 
certain projects in the SEI that are subject 
to DoD classification. Any brilliance a grad 
student exhibits will have to be channeled 
into innocuous projects, i.e. remedial work 
that even any English major like myself 
could do. In Januarys Focus, CMU ad
ministrator Ed Hunis is quoted as saying
. .There will be no classrooms and no 
students employed in the building. You can 
write off undergrad work-study students too.
I hope Im not pounding my head against 
a stone wall. Personally, Im not a pacifist. 
Im not anti-American, and Im not even 
anti-CMU. But Im not going to go about
my day like a good German and try t 
nore the Administrations abuse 
university atmosphere. Its time to! 
for your school, people, as well as: 
species. In the administrations run to 
academic forefront, it has entered then 
race: the one race that it will win on ail 
term basis, but which will make us allli 
in the end.
Christopher Johnston is a se 
Creative/Professional Writing.
This is the first in a series of guest co i 
written by various members of the I 
community. To submit a Viewpoint M 
sideration, send your article, typeij 
double-spaced, to: Editor, Tartan, 
Room 50. No manuscripts can be retffl
Mi'A NEW WAY
OF LIVING"
TEACHING SERIES
STARTI NG JANUARY 25.1985 
AT MELLON INSTITUTE 
IN OAKLAND 7:00 P.M.
TO REGISTER CALL
BOB TEDESCO 
264-0236
nlOenOsdS yY UNRcdsnRtY o,sRntRgN OUtsdgo,

---------------------------------------------------

Finies.
oe FreshmanBy Mark Levine
THE 20HBAU 
Revolution 
neecs you xo
HUP viS OVtRfywftj Tnt EVll 
fwwsWTioN;
IOOK,WO,10V)
tWEA Slitto 
ftlSSIONTO ., eiMowA!
5 This U 'foof, 
j EifoHTHSaesTto,
\ ISN'T ITf
%bWViN,TR.-\ j 
h SENton/WWW 00 3- )
ww to EMB A R
GftouATloNUNPAINT THE
-? fem.UUnivM
erstyTch
EolctnssrsgGKA-6RA'6^A \ 
fo&ES DcM DlfLD/lAS
AMO LN6 SfcEtHK 
61 /\10MK1 A40
rpmCTO,gA A
UKWUNT 
TO fENal!1 HAVE ft 
S\*-PA& 
f APERTO
PtP-fOfvM
Mo PWNCfSSfS.
uMms ME 
vyOdfvTpna
WHATS IN It 
IrORM?
Maszle and Beyeroindexter
lawns  sus: <nn 'WHWS TUAT HM? 
TO DO NiTU
M*ve THe 60V Who 
TPW IT DOWN DCDweit, wtee 40e^ofJe oiep
university
dining
serviceMenuJANUARY 28 -31, FEBRUARY 3
kiltie cofekiltie cofoEVENING
VcaV Parmesan 
 - -.Hamb.-Siroganoff 
> Spinach Tart
Deli Bar * /V . v ^... * ?*urkey -1 ctoiuzu
Lasag*
Veg. Lasagna. ^ ?
Baked Fish Supreme
Cold Hoagie 
Chicken Chow Mem 
Pasta Bean Cass. 
Fish&Ch.Sand.
Patly Murphy 
Veg.Stuffed Peppers
Grilled Ham 
Chicken Pot Pie 
Ratatouille
London Broil 
Sebastian Grill 
Seafood CreoleTaco Night
Chicken Chow Mein
Egg Rolls
Eggs Foo Young
Baked Pork Chops 
Braised Beef Cubes 
Spinach lari
Hot Dogs 
Chili Con Carne 
Cheese Souffle
Fried Chicken 
Pork Tenderloin 
Cheese Fondue
Chicken Sandwich 
Ham Ala King 
Deli Bar
Meatball Hoagie 
Chicken Ala King 
Eggs Foo Young
Turkey/Dressing 
Knock worst/Kraut 
Ratatouille
Stuffed Flounder 
Braised Beef Cubes 
Califlower Marranea
Hamb.Steak/Gravy 
Baked Ham 
Monterry Veg.Bake
Deli Bar
Italian Pepper Stk 
Salmon Loaf
Grilled Cheese 
Hain&.Macarom 
N.Bean Slroeanoff
Chicken Ambassador 
Slirunp&.Seafood 
R.Beef Au Jus
Waffles/Hash Browns 
Hot Roast Beef Sand. 
Western Cheese Souffle
Everyday
Hot/Cold Deli 
Omelette to Order 
Hamburgers lt Hotdogs
Everyday 
Carved Beef or TurkeySenior Banquet
Fried Chicken 
Quiche Lorraine 
Lentil Barley Slew
Pancakes/Sausage 
Ham, Eg g Cheese Sand. 
Beef MacaroniA/Tomatoes
Subject To Change

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements
Come see PORKYS, Wednesday night January 
30th in DH2210 at 6, 8, 10, & 12. Tickets $1.00. 
All proceeds to benefit Cerebral Palsy.
Are you worried about nuclear weapons? Do you 
care about the effects of military funding ofi 
academic research? Are you concerned about U.S. 
intervention in Central America? Do you want to 
do something about South African apartheid? 
Then come to the CMU Peace Alliance meeting 
on Wednesday, January SO at 5:00 p.m. in Skibo 
room 45. We will be making plans for spring 
semester activities.
Applications are now available for Delta Delta 
Delta Service Project Scholarships. One award 
will be made to ' a full-time undergraduate 
woman. The recipient of this award is 
automatically eligible for one of the national Zoe 
Gore Perrin awards of $1000. Forms are available 
from Service Projects Chairman, Laura Silvers 
(x5900) or in the Financial Aid office. The 
Deadline for the competition is March 1, 1985.
President Cyert is having open office hours from 
3 pm to 5 pm on Thursday, January 31 in Warner 
Hall 602. Students who wish to speak with the 
president should call 578-2200 to set up an 
appointment.
Womens track team: be a part of a new start. 
For information, call Coach Gfrry Seidl at x3306.
Classifieds
LOST, gold ring, reward if found. Call x5979 
or 683-0269.
loo busy to cook? All-natural homemade meals 
delivered daily to Univ. For info re. menus, prices, 
etc., call 362-7032.
For rent  2 rooms in 3-bedroom Sq. Hill house. 
Nice and clean. Carpeted. Convenient to school 
and shopping. $200 plus 1/3 utilities. 521-7929.
Shadyside/Oakland partially furnished, large, 
one BR with free laundry, gas, heat. $320 elec.
471-1122.
Delivery Persons needed. Earn up to $7 qJ
hour. Must have own car, valid drivers ljc 
and insurance. Must be 18 years or older. A 
in person. Dominos Pizza, 315 N. Craigs, 
Oakland. 11-4 weekdays.
Shadyside-mostly furnished 1-2 bedroom a 
ment. First floor, carpet, short-term 1 
available, $360 heat. 733-1560.
VALENTINES DAY SALE BY SARC. Feb., 
Bookstore daily. Morewood and Skibo 4:30-7-*
Income tax prepared by professional. Prices 
at $25.00. Call for appointment. 261-1860 
421-6932.
Events
MoviesOQ
J From Here to Eternity, starmmm c/ ring Burt Lancaster, Deborah 
Kerr, Montgomery Clift, Frank Sinatra, 
Ernest Borgnine. Pittsburgh Playhouse 7:30 
pm, 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Plays
Ashes, a play by David Radkin and directed 
by Brad White. Studio Theater, 5:30 pm.
Sports
Womens Basketball away game against 
Hiram College, 5:30 pm.
Clubs
Scotch n Soda Technical Meeting for
stage, crew, lights, etc. is open to anyone in
terested in working in two shows this 
semester. Meet at Skibo 40 D, 7:30 pm or 
contact Martin Gibb x4780 or x3522.
Art
Lart, featuring paintings, prints, collages, 
drawings and sculptures by Diane Thodos, 
Kathryn Chan, Chris Mandios. Forbes 
Gallery, through February 3.
It's all Part of the Clay features an exhibi
tion of large-scale clay figures, plates, 
bricolage, assemblages and paintings by 
Viola Frey, funded by a grant from the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Council on 
the Arts and circulated by the Gallery at 
Movie College at Art. Pittsburgh Center for 
the Arts, Fifth and Shady, until February 
3. Gallery hours: Tuesday to Saturday, 10 
am to 5 pm; Sunday 1 pm to 5 pm.
Paintings by Phyllis Bramson, presented 
at the Hewlett Gallery in the College of Fine 
Arts Building, 11 am to 4 pm, until January 
31.
Works by Michael Kapeluck will be shown 
at the Ellis Gallery until February 2.
Microscapes, a photographic exhibit of high 
technology sponsored by AT&T, CMU 
Libraries and College of Fine Arts and 
distributed by the Association of ScienceTechnology Center. Hunt Library 4th Floor, 
Monday through Friday 8:30 am to 12 mid
night until February 17.
Community Events
Blood Donations can be made at Skibo 
Rooms 11 and 12 from 10 am to 3:45 pm. 
Contact Interfraternity Council Office at 
Skibo 103.
j-r ^ Movies
I I The Great Gatsby, starring 
Robert Redford, Mia Farrow, 
Bruce Dem. Pittsburgh Playhouse 7:30 pm, 
10 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Men's Varsity Basketball away game 
against Bethany College, 8 pm (radio 
coverage on WRCT 88.3 FM.)
Mens Junior Varsity Basketball away 
game against Bethany College, 6 pm.
Fencing away meet against Penn StateFayette, 6 pm.
^ ^ Movies
I Whos Afraid of VirginiaJL Woolf, starring Elizabeth 
Taylor and Richard Burton. Doherty Hall 
2210, 6 pm, 8:30 pm, 11 pm. Admission $1 
with CMU ID; sponsored by Activities 
Board.
More of the Best of Warner Brothers 
CartoonsPart II, featuring Bugs Bunny. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Lectures
News on Booze, sponsored by Interfrater
nity Council. Along with selected 
videotapes, there will be a controlled drink
ing and simulated driving presentation that 
will go on throughout the days program. 
Skibo Ballroom, 10 am to 5:30 pm.
1
 Movies
Making the Grade. Doherty 
Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 
pm, 12 pm. Admission $1 with CMU ID; 
sponsored by Activities Board.
Under the Volcano, starring Albert Finney 
and Jacqueling Bisset. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Admission
$2.95.
Sports
Womens Basketball away game against 
Seton Hall, 7 pm.______________________________________2
 Movies
Oxford Blues. Doherty Hall 
2210, 6 pm, 8pm, 10 pm. Ad
mission $1 with CMU ID; sponsored by Stu
dent Dormitory Council.
Educating Rita, starring Michael Caine 
and Julie Waters. Pittsburgh Playhouse 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Swimming home meet against Shepherd 
College. Gymnasium pool, 1 pm.
IM Wrestling Practice. Thistle Hall, 12 
noon to 5 pm.
Mens Varsity Basketball home game 
against Grove City College. Skibo Gym, 2 
pm. (Radio coverage on WRCT 88.3 FM.)
Mens Junior Varsity Basketball home 
game against Grove City College. Skibo 
Gym, 12 noon.
Fencing away meet against California 
University of Pennsylvania and Case 
Western Reserve University at California, 11 
am.
Recreation
Senior Banquet, hosted by Alumni 
tion and Student Alumni Relations 
cil. Reception in Skibo Ballroom, 7 
Dinner in Kiltie Dining Room, 8 pm. 
Dance featuring Gigolo immediately folio, 
ing dinner. All CMU students invited t 
dance. Seniors may pick up tickets in Alui 
ni Office, Warner Hall 506.
Clubs
Game Club meets in Skibo 11 at 1pm3
 Movies
Play it Again, Sam, a W<* 
Allen film. Doherty 
2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm. AdmissionJ 
with CMU ID; sponsored by Activity 
Board.
Only Angels Have Wings, starring i 
Grant, Jean Arthur, Rita Hayworth, 
sburgh Playhouse 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm. 
mission $2.95.
Music
Music Smithfield presents: The Fine J 
Brass Quintet of Pittsburgh, performing! 
Smithfield United Church. Smithfuj 
Street, 1:30 pm.
Art
Selected Drawings by Georg Ba 
presented at the Hewlett Gallery in the( 
lege of Fine Arts Building, 11 am to 4p 
until February 28.4
 Movies
Martin, starring John 
pies, Lincoln Maazel, 
Forrest. Pittsburgh Playhouse 7:30 pm,5^Bli 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Spirit presents: An Evening of Poetry1! 
Jazz, performed by Natalie Carter, 
of the 1984 Princess Grace Kelly A# 
Skibo Wherrett Room, 8 pm.
Clubs ^
A Phi O meeting Doherty Hall 2210a e 
pm. Everyone Welcome.
MURRAY A. FELDER
ATTORNEY AT LAW
Civil and Criminal
3447 Forbes Ave. 
Oakland683-3555
FOR SALE
Three New England Supply paste-up 
banks. 45 slope, large 26"x84" work 
surface. Ideal for design and 
newspaper work. V^ry good condi
tion. Asking price $1000; best offer 
accepted. Contact The Tartan, 
x2111, and ask for Mike.
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
 student discount available 
easily accessible by bus from CMU
239 Fourth Ave., Suite 217, Downtown 
281-4770
MasterCard, Visa accepted 
Call appointment
URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS?
Do you experience urinary frequency or 
urgency/ pain on urination/ blood in urine^ 
Biodecision Laboratories is conducting an 
outpatient clinical study comparing a 
commonly used oral antibacterial medicatin| 
to a new oral antibacterial produced by a 
major pharmaceutical manufacturer.
We are looking for women and men with 
urinary tract infections interested in 
participating in this project. t You will 
receive/ free of charge/ a physical exam* 
lab tests/ 3 follow-up visits/ and 1 of 2 
antibacterials to treat your infection.
All care is provided by trained medical 
staff. Reimbursement for all travel eXPe!Joj 
is available. If interested/ call 363-33 | 
for information.
biodecision
laboratories
CHANE R GREENBLAT'
DIRECTOR OF PATIENT STUD*
5900 PENN MALL WEST PITTSBURGH. PA 15206*(412) 363 3300
Ft i
le
ion
|PFi 5 
h 
\
Fai
J
rhi
 loi
|re 
|m :
Rrn
im
Nit
[le r 
is 
10 
pUei 
ild
