The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 6, October 16, 1984.
Stockwellsays he was "taught to lie"
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan Staffwriter
Former CIA agent John Stockwell s chill
ing narrative of his experiences drew varied 
responses from an interested audience of 
CMU students and others.
Stockwells visit to CMUs Skibo Ballroom 
Tuesday night was one of a series of public 
appearances he has made criticizing the 
Agency since his resignation from it in 1977.
The CIA poses the ultimate threat to 
democracy and is a major cause of the 
worlds move toward nuclear extinction, 
charges Stockwell. He advocates its 
dismantling.
Stockwell, who served as a case officer in 
Vietnam and Africa and as an advisor to the 
National Security Council, described in his 
talk what he called covert actions engag
ed in by the agency. He said that about 100 
covert actions talk place each year, including 
what he sees as the action in Nicaragua 
building into a war in Central America.
Stockwell joined the agency in 1964. 
They taught us how to lie, Stockwell said 
of his experience with agency policies. The 
truth was whatever objective you had at the 
time. Stockwell first spent six years in the 
Congo as a case officer. He said that he sup
pressed his disillusionment with the purpose 
I of the program there until he was transferred 
I to Vietnam, an area in which conflict was 
j beginning.
I went because it was the major incident,
said Stockwell. Things were on a roll, and 
I worked hard.
Stockwell was in Vietnam from 1973 
through the final evacuation in April 1975. 
Stockwell said that as the chief of a com
pound near the Communist Command of 
South Vietnam, he not only witnessed hun
dreds of executions of Vietnamese, but was 
forced to comply with the corruption of the 
military operations.
Henry Kissinger had given a policy of 
vietnamizing the fight. It wasnt working. 
We were prohibited from reporting that it 
wasnt working.
Stockwell said that he returned from Viet
nam with the intention of quitting im
mediately, when he was then appointed to 
be the Angola Task Force Commander.
Everything in my mind rebelled against 
doing the same thing again, said Stockwell, 
but I decided that whatever the moral or 
legal consequences, I would sit at the Na
tional Security Council and I would finally 
know.
Stockwell said he took the job and work
ed hard at it, hoping that I would find wise 
men making difficult decisions. I found fat, 
old men sleeping through Council meetings 
while we were making decisions about peo
ple getting killed.
Stockwell said that one-third of the staff 
assigned him were propagandists  their 
job was to feed false stories into the pres and 
media. If they got something into The New
John Stockwell said he found fat, old men sleeping through council meetings.
York Times, it was a big deal.
Since his employment with the CIA, 
Stockwell has visited Central America and 
has written In Search of Enemies, a book 
analyzing CIA action in the Angola civil war. 
Stockwell is a graduate of the University
of Texas (Liberal Arts, with a second major 
in naval science) and served 19 years in the 
Marine Corps Reserve. On his education, 
Stockwell commented, I went through it, 
but I didnt get a good education about 
things Im talking about now.
Counseling Center to hold support 
sessions on stress, families, eating
By SUZANNE GRADISEK
Tartan Staffwriter
Three help/support groups will be offered 
to students beginning in late October, ac
cording to Dr. Lorrie Rabin, acting direc
tor of the Counseling Center.
states these groups are being ofin response to the problems the 
Counseling Center hears from students. 
However, the center would like recommen
dations from students concerning more help 
groups. The three groups offered are:
1. Stress Management: Learn how to cope 
academic and personal pressures. Four 
sessions, Tuesdays 4:30-5:30 p.m., begin
ning October 30.
2. Eating Disorders Group: For persons 
struggling with eating problems such as star
vation, binging, or purging. Four sessions, 
Mondays 4:30-5:30 p.m., beginning October 
29.
3. Families in Transition: A group for 
students whose parents are separated, 
divorced, and/or remarried. Four sessions, 
Wednesdays 4:30-5:30 p.m., beginning Oc
tober 24.
Preregistration is required for the groups. 
Register at the Counseling and Student 
Development Center at Morewood Gardens, 
E-tower, suite 103, or call 578-2922.
Daytona Driving Championships
a matter of strategy and timing
photo by Bob Fuhel
is captured the true spirit of Homecoming  an event for young and old alike. 
mre Homecoming photos and reports, see the supplements in this issue.
By BONNIE JACOBSEN
Tartan Staffwriter
On Tuesday, Oct. 9 and Wednesday, Oct 
10, the Dodge Daytdna National Collegiate 
Driving Championships came to CamegieMellon to test the local driving talent. The 
track-was set up in the parking lot of 
Morewood Gardens and consisted of a large 
hour-glass shape surrounded, quite tightly 
(8 spread on either side), by pylons. Each 
contestant drove through once for practice 
and then once again for time. Each pylon 
knocked down added one second to the con
testants time.
All contestants drove a 1985 Dodge 
Daytona Turbo which was locked into first 
gear. Lance Crowe, a freshman contestant 
said,  Its not that hard, just driving in a 
circle. Not knocking over the pylons is the 
tough part. Either go slow and knock a few 
over or bust loose and knock them all down. 
Its all strategy. Pylons knocked down on 
the practice run counted against scores as
well, so the cones start adding up.
The leader as of Tuesday at closing was 
continued on page 3
In this issue
News
Hedge Night results.......
Campaign '84.................
Features
Don Hale.........................
R.A. uneasiness..............
Entertainment
Illegal taping.....;............
Ramones.........................
Sports
Tartans down Grove City. 
Tennis brings home title.,
Editorial
Homecoming memories...,
Page 2 
Page 4
Page 7 
Page 8
Page 11 
Page 12
Page 15 
Page 15
Page 20

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanOctober 16, 1984
Pledge night yields239 frat members
PIEDMONT'S 50% OFF COLLEGE FARE.
Face it, your learning years are not your prime earning 
years. But dont let that stop you from moving off campus.
Through February 28,1985, you can fly anywhere 
Piedmont flies for half fare.To LA and New'lbrk. And to all 
kinds of hot spots and hometowns in between.
Whats the catch?Well,you must be under 26 and have 
a valid student ID. Read the fine print below for restrictions.
Piedmonts 50% Off College FareMore proof that our 
commitment to higher education is not just a lofty ideal.
Non-reftakiiihk.rontul-trij> tickets must he Imrchosed lit least sctvn days l\j<rrc (rat el. Not aiuilaNe all day FritLty or 
Sunday after i oof>m Htdkkiy travel restrictions //rfy. Q<// your travel a/jeiit or its at
Sigma Alpha Epsilon (27)
John Livanos, Brian Slotnick, Kerry 
Skolkin, Tony Berkman, Mike Wiegand, 
William Gearhart, Andrew Cate, Bert 
Coudrier, Jeffrey Smith, Martin Gorman, 
Vidal Graupera, Dave Fembacher, Marshall 
Klinoslewski, Thomas Donovan, Thomas 
Mckonnell, Jeffrey Kockanowski, Ted Roller, 
Tony Gallippi, Rodney Smith, Glenn Bern 
stein, Patrick Flynn, James Ruffin, David 
Shiller, Mark Hoeke, Jordan Williams, Rob 
Westin, James Voorhees.
Sigma Nu (9)
Eric Johnson, Frank Tindall, Scott Shaf
fer, Pat Riordan, Paul Nick, Jeff Chin, Fred 
Rubic, Gary Polaski, Jay Smith.
Theta Xi (21)
Glenn Schuster, Frank Peiretta, Dave Col 
angeli, Thomas Klempay, Patrick Carey, 
Chris Shannon, Marc Archambault 
Michael King, Michael K. Chin, Kent 
Greenholt, Todd Bernhard, John Kocca. 
Eric Singer, Andrew Philips, Daniel Hendel, 
Scott Walker, Lane Gordon, John Olsavsty 
Ari Sklas, Joseph Hyman, Eric Gold.
Zeta Beta Tau (57)
John Blackwood, Shep Bostin, Jay Broo^ 
Gary Chodikov, Daniel Cohen, Paul Defal^ 
Andrew Ditmore, Scott Dodson, Fredefl 
Ferguson, Michael Fong,'Robert Garnp^ 
Steve Gibson, Michael Gordon, 0' 
Howard, Ernest Hua, Todd Joseph, Mic^af 
Kelly, Mark Kissner, Gerard Kleinrock 
Kulevsky, Chris Lane, David Lehn, Ho^' 
Look, Steve Maybaum, Daniel Nie^ 
Spencer Olchin, Joon Park, Richard P'J 
son, Paul Pyzowski, Jeff Russo, Michael ^ 
drof, John Savolaine, Eric Slesar, 
Smith, Sean Toole, David Zarsky, 1 
Zawrotney.
photo by Bob Fishel
The striking of the gong is one of many traditions that take place on pledge night.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
In the first half wet/half dry rush, CMU 
fraternities surpassed last years total of 235 
pledges with 239 pledges. Zeta Beta Tau, 
with a fully dry rush, gained 37 pledges.
Here is the list of the individual frats (Pi 
Lambda Phi did not submit a list):
Alpha Tau Omega (21)
Carlos Abrams, Joe Boltz, Mike Boyle, 
John Brown, Dave Burchianti, Gary Como, 
Don Fleming, Rich Gareis, Chris Haupt, 
John Jones, Damien McKnight, Frank 
Meehan, Ben Miller, Carl Montalbano, Tony 
Mozeleski, Mike Nazzaro, Jeff OHanlon, 
Mark Plymire, John Rooney, Matt Sevin, 
Randy Swales.
Beta Theta Pi (18)
Darin C. Ball, Leo C. Cadden, Michael 
Colucci, Michael J. Davis, David E. Elias, 
Wayne Figurelle, John Friedmann, Richard 
Hall, William E. Heiser, Michael Hensel, 
Richard Hogland, Timothy P. Kelly, 
William Cramer, Michael Lavalle, Richard
LaValle, Daniel E. Lankitus, Kenneth Ur
ban, Michael Wilson.
Delta Tau Delta (20)
Ben Bennett, Arnie Aistars, Adam Hird, 
Liem Vu, Chris Pace, Brendan Minnihan, 
Craig Barnes, John Mury, Matt Nolan, Chris 
Coad, David McLaughlin, John Babich, 
Steven Lim, Robert Bickel, Bruce Stewart, 
David Smith, Joseph Najjar, Saul Kaplan, 
Paul Smethers, Brian Cluggish.
Delta Upsilon (28)
Kenneth Bernstein, Andrew Bezaitus, 
Dino Chiesa, Gary Cohen, Dave Denhard, 
Eric Dusenbury, Ian Gallimore, William 
Guthrie, Chris Hard, Jim Kohler, Miles 
Krivoshia, Rob Longenecker, Tim Metzler, 
Gary Middleton, Evan McDonnall, Bill 
Richardson, Tony Scarpelli, Brian Seifert, 
Mark Shafer, Ken Sobel, Adam Swidler, T.J. 
Theodorsen, Todd Tomczyk, Bernard Uy, 
Rich Valera, Noah Zeitnhofer, Sanjeev 
Banerjia.
Kappa Sigma (14)
Toni Abenante, Dave Nardozzi, Mark 
Thomson, Greg Collins, Chris Meek, Eric 
Postnicks, Steve Smetana, Chuck Leavitt, 
Steve Latchem, Bill Chotiner, Mitch 
Reichgut, Bryan Rector, John Kaufman 
Mike Mattei.
Phi Kappa Theta (15)
Dave Scott, Randy Brown, Tom Gilmore, 
Steve Kravchin, Dave Howe, Glenn Barrett, 
Jay Hasbrouck, Ned Beatty, Rob 
Schlackman, Tony Jones, B.J. Rottschaefer, 
Alex Simogyi, Dennis Gephardt, Eric 
Jacobs, Matt Conti.
Pi Kappa Alpha (25)
Mark Benish, George Bentel, Lance 
Crowe, Fred Deleon, John Dolota, Jeff Depp, 
James Dickey, Robert DiGioia, Gregory 
Duyck, Robin Esterson, Christopher Gentile, 
David Gestrich, Rapheal Jacobs, Evan 
Kaliner, Michael Lynch, Joseph Mancuso, 
David Mathias, Joseph Michalski, Charles 
Moff, Ralph Pastore, Christopher Paul, Jef
fery Pinard, Jay Rosenblatt, Michael Ross, 
Eric Tenbus.

---------------------------------------------------

October 16, 1984The TartanPage 3
Housing problems cause many inconveniences
CLEVELAND, OH (CPS)
For the price of a regular, on-campus 
dorm room, John Carroll University (JCU) 
senior Norm Kotoch and 65 other students 
live in a luxury hotel off-campus, where they 
enjoy private washrooms, cable television, 
refrigerators, maid service, and swimming 
pool privileges.
Everyones acting really well because they 
dont want to spoil this situation, Kotoch 
says. Its really working out great.
Not for everyone. For JCU itself, putting 
up Kotoch and the others is costing a 
substantial amount of money, says James 
Lavin, JCU Dean of Student Life.
But JCU had no other place to house the 
new students it attracted this fall, thanks to 
an unexpected six percent enrollment 
increase.
In part because theyve been successful in 
recruiting new students and in part because 
more students are opting to live on-campus 
this fall, many schools are suffering dorm 
room shortages, reports Jim Grimm, presi
dent of College and University Housing Of
ficers International (CUHOI).
And while a lucky few students are living 
it up at luxury hotels, on most room-short 
campuses students must endure long waits, 
overcrowding, temporary housing in lounges 
I and storage rooms, and sometimes no housling at all.
At least 600 Iowa State students, for ex
ample, started the year without a place to 
live, and local and state agencies are still try
ing to shelter them.
But a shortage of off-campus as well as 
on-campus housing is making a bad situa
tion worse, officials report.
University of Wisconsin-Madison officials 
[have turned down some 4000 housing re
quests because of overcrowding there, says 
Lawrence Halle, associate housing director.
Over 500 University of California-Davis 
freshmen similarly were denied housing this 
fall.
Other schools South Florida, Illinois, 
Southern Cal, and Bates College in Maine 
among them  are coping with unexpected 
overflows by stuffing three and often four 
students in dorm rooms designed for single 
or double occupancy.
At the University of Nebraska, for in
stance, where there are 5160 spaces available 
for more than 5270 students, officials are 
placing three students to a room. We wont 
turn any student aw^ay because of housing 
shortages, says Housing Director Foug 
Zatechka.
Zatechka claims tripling-up students has 
no effect on a students GPA or the socializa
tion process, especially compared to the 
alternative of turning students out in the 
cold.
Turning a student away, especially at 
state schools, is a crime he says. For a 
student, a triple dorm room is better than 
no room.
None of it, however, was supposed to 
happen.
Many campus housing officials counsel
ed that the terrible dorm overcrowding of 
the late seventies and early eighties was tem
porary, and that building new dorms to meet 
student demand for rooms was unwise 
because enrollment nationwide was due to 
drop precipitously soon.
Many schools, in fact, closed dorms over 
the last few years in anticipation of the 
enrollment decline.
But enrollments, of course, havent 
dropped.
And more and more students are finding 
that its too expensive to live off-campus and 
being on campus is much more convenient, 
says CUHOIs Grimm.
SERIES ON SURVIVAL
New Perspectives on Avoiding Nuclear War
Tuesday, October 16, 8:00 p.m., Benedum Hall, University of Pittsburgh
CITIZENS FORUM ON 
NUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL
Military Perspective  
Captain James L. BushCenter for Defense Information Former Polaris Submarine Commander. /'..V. \'ary
Political Perspective  
Doug WalgrenI S. Congressman
Universities and National Security 
M. Granger Morgan. Ph.DChairman. Department of Engineering and Public Policy.Carnegie Melton l iiieersity
Tuesday, October 23, 8:00 p.m., Benedum Hall, University of Pittsburgh
STAR WARS AND NUCLEAR CIVIL DEFENSE: 
CAN WE BE SAFE?
Irwin Redlener, M.D.Chairman. National Executive < ommittev. Physicians for Sctcial Kesfionsibilit i Practicing Pediatrician
Henry T. Miller. Ph.DGulf Oil Corporation Formerly Suelear Uea/x>ns Effect Analyst. I S. Army
Monday, October 29, 8:00 p.m., Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall, Oakland
NUCLEAR 
WINTER
Lewis Thomas, M.D.Chancellor. Memorial Sloan-KetteringCancer Institute. \en York City Ucard Winning Author: Lices of a Cell:Late \iebt Thoughts on Mahler's \intb Symtthony
Saturday, November 3, 9:00 aim., Winchester-Thurston School, Shadyside
TEACHING CRITICAL THINKING 
IN THE NUCLEAR AGE
A leacher Training Program;
Parents' Program to Follow
For Further Information Call (412) 421-1042
Dorms are a very safe place as far as fires 
and crime go, he adds. Some schools are 
even adding new furniture, unlimited food 
privileges, and computer facilities to entice 
new students.
On the other hand, Berkeley is removing 
computers and video games from its dorm 
lobbies to make room for an unexpected glut 
of new students there.
Housing is definitely a problem, laments 
Harry Ltfgrand, Berkeleys housing chief.
We tell students to look around early but 
many think it just wont happen to them.
So far, he says, the university has added 
750 new spaces to accommodate this years 
overflow, besides leasing two residence halls 
from other nearby schools.
Berkeley students living in lobbies and 
game rooms mujst store their personal 
belongings in gym lockers two blocks away, 
and endure a five-minute walk to take 
showers on another part of campus.Romanelli endorsed for state senate position by the APSCUF
By KAREN CERRONI
Tartan Staffwriter
State Senator James A. Romanelli has 
received the endorsement of the Association 
of Pennsylvania State College and Universi
ty Faculties (APSCUF) for his re-election in 
November.
Romanelli, a member of the Pittsburgh 
Democratic party, represents the 43rd 
senatorial district, and is currently com
pleting his third term as state senator.
I am flattered that APSCUF has 
endorsed my re-election bid. They have 
recognized my experience and expertise. I 
have always been a supporter of higher 
education.
Romanelli actively supports community 
development in Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania 
highway safety. During the past two years, 
Romanelli has appropriated funds of two 
million dollars to the redevelopment of the 
Jones-Lockland steel plant in Hazelwood. 
The closed steel plant is trying to attract 
buyers. CMU is interested in this site because
of its pending contract with the U.S. Depart
ment of Defense.
The Senior Citizens Free Ride program 
(no charge to senior citizens using city bus 
transportation) is Romanellis attempt to 
take the financial burden off the Port 
Authority Transit and other riders. 
Romanelli now is proposing a Bridge 
Feasibility study of Pittsburgh bridges.
Dodge Daytona 
race on campus
continued from page 1
Sean Stepleton with a time of 16.029. The 
winner gets a chance to go to the National 
Competition where first prize is use of a 
Dodge Daytona 500 Turbo for 1 year, plus 
a $5000 scholarship. Second prize is the car 
and $3000 and third, the car and $2000. We 
will be looking for our CMU representative 
on campus next year driving one of these 
new cars.
ITTSBl K< 111
197064693lo IRI VI VI Nl <11 AH VUH
Vjc l ink  Wo World 11 ih ralis i IjWuYs VUHI
Lewis'
Creative 
Hair Team
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
Shadyside 
682-4063
Mon. Fri. 99 Sat. 95 
Super Cuts for Guys and Gals
Attention SENIORS
Portrait Proof Pick-Up Tues. & Wed. 
October 16 & 17 ONLY 
Skibo Rm. 13 
10 am  6 pm
(Tell your friends...)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 16, 1984
Debates continue with religion and politics
By AMY LIPKE
Tartan Staffwriter
Religion and politics was the subject of the 
second in the series of Presidential Debates, 
which took place in the Skibo Ballroom at 
8:00 pm on Wednesday, October 10. The 
debate was moderated by Professor David 
Kaiser of the History department. Speakers 
were Cal Thomas, Los Angeles Times col
umnist and Vice President of Communica
tions for the Moral Majority, and Represen
tative Barney Frank, congressman from 
Massachusetts.
President Cyert made opening remarks 
describing the Presidential Debates as a 
series of debates on issues in the years elec
tion. The series is an attempt to give the 
CMU community a chance to become bet
ter informed on election issues in order to 
make wiser voting decisions.
The debate format consisted of a 20
minute argument by each speaker, a fiveminute rebuttal by each of the others argu
ment, questions from the floor, and a brief 
summation of each speakers stand.
Cal Thomas, who specifically supports 
President Reagan, the anti-abortion amend
ment, and public prayer in the schools, 
spoke first. He addressed as the main point 
of his argument the question of legalized 
abortion, maintaining that unelected federal 
judges have tampered with the Constitution, 
having found a previously unknown right 
of a woman to kill her unborn child. 
Thomas stressed the contrast between the 
American passion for truth in advertising, 
i.e., full disclosure of all information con
cerning products on the market, and the 
lack of information women receive before 
having an abortion. He asserted that few 
people know how an abortion is performed, 
yet would never consider having any other
kind of operation without knowing how its 
done and what other options they have. 
Women are, he said, being asked to make 
uninformed decisions concerning life and 
death.
Thomas viewed the banning of public 
prayer in schools as a direct attack on 
religion, citing examples of children being 
forbidden to say grace in school cafeterias 
and allowed to read books containing 
obscenities but not books containing any 
mention of God.
Thomas concluded his argument by at
tempting to explain the Moral Majority. (A 
pretentious title, he says, but I didnt pick 
it) The Moral Majority is a political 
organization. It contains conservatives of all 
religions who are united on a political agen
da. They have, according to Thomas, built 
a coalition based on conservative values 
which corresponds to the coalition that
The following senators have office hours:
MONDAY
10:3011:30 
11:3012:30 
12:30 1:30 
1:30 2:30 
2:30 3:30 
5:006:00 
6:30 7:30
Peter Corless CFA 
Cheri Jagerski CIT 
Mike Bett MCS 
Steve Volan HSS 
Cindy Taylor MCS 
Hilary DeBroff AMS 
Larry Bach CIT
WEDNESDAY
10:3011:30 Peter Cohen HSS 
Jeff Soller MCS
10:3011:30 
11:3012:30 
12:30 1:30 
1:30 2:30 
3:30 4:30 
4:30 5:30 
6:00 7:00
11:3012:30 
12:30 1:30 
1:30 2:30 
2:30 3:30
Edward Miller CIT 
Darren Rizza CFA 
Dave Goldstein CIT
FRIDAY
10:3011:30 Diane Weaver CIT
10:3011:30 
11:3012:30 
2:30 3:30 
4:30 5:30 
5.30 6:30
TUESDAY
John Searing CIT 
Bill McCormick, Pres. 
Lisa Bruno CIT 
Shep Bostin HSS 
John Pane CIT 
John Carpenter CFA 
John Pane CIT
THURSDAY
Jeff Duer CFA 
Tamal Mukherjee CIT 
Jackie Piscitello HSS 
Steve Weller CIT 
Eric Rocher MCS
Come talk to YOUR Senators!
Student Senate
Working together, 
we get things done.
liberals have had for years.
Representative Frank began by stating 
that while it is legitimate for religious peo
ple to be involved in politics, what he ob 
jects to is government support of one par
ticular religion, namely Christianity, overall 
others. Frank spoke against state-sponsored I 
prayer in schools, maintaining that worship I 
is a private matter and . . .how and where I 
and when people pray ought not to be any I 
of the governments business.
On the subject of abortion Frank was une-1| 
quivocal: I do not think we should make I 
it a crime for any woman anywhere in | 
America to have an abortion. He alsofl 
claimed that it is not true that information * 1 
and counseling before abortion are not em I 
phasized as much as for other operations, I 
saying that if anything the controls on abortion are stricter.
Frank finished his argument by posing the j 
rhetorical question: The Moral Majority ap ? 
pear to believe that their faith cannot sur I 
vive without government coercion is that i 
real faith?
In his rebuttal of Franks argument, 
Thomas said that he wondered how it is < E 
possible to separate ones moral and religious 11 
views from their public policies and still act ? 
according to conscience. He maintained that1 
every law is an imposition of someonss I 
morality on someone else, and that this is I 
necessary to protect the lives and welfare of I 
all.
Frank rebutted Thomas argument by { 
asserting that ones religious beliefs will in I 
deed influence their public policy, but that 19 
some issues should not be matters of public La 
policy. He stated that the Moral Majority I 
wants to use school to impose prayer  
because they dont think people are doing || 
it well enough on their own.
Following the rebuttals, each speaker SI 
entertained several questions from the au || 
dience, and presented a brief summation of gg 
his stand. Frank concluded by stating, We 9 
should not use the government to say to peo SI 
pie: You should engage in religious practice,"  
Thomas, in turn,-summed up: The tide is s 
on the side of conservatism in this country I 
. . I dont think that Ronald Reagan is the 1| 
solution to all of our problems. . .1 do think, fl 
however, that he is the best of the choices. *|
Two more debates will be held as Part0^ 
the Presidential Debate series, the next or.: 
Tuesday, October 16, and the final onfjl 
Wednesday, October 24.
United Way... thanks to you it works for all of us!
funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

October 16, 1984The TartanPage 5
f'QENERAL DYNAMICS
i'f k Eqhf Opportunity EmpioyerUJS. Citizenship Required
Registration a success across the country
BOSTON, MA (CPS)
Over 400 students poured through voter 
registration lines at Boston College on Oc
tober 1st, joining thousands of others on 
campuses across the country that held mass 
registration drives in observance of National 
Student Registration Day.
Statewide, Massachusetts colleges 
registered nearly 3500 students during the 
one-day event, reports Jim Kessler with the 
Massachusetts Public Interest Research 
Group (M-PIRG), one of several student 
organizations sponsoring national drives to 
register students.
There were similar efforts at campuses na
tionwide last week as organizers capped what 
theyre calling the most ambitious student 
voter registration drive in history.
It was mounted, moreover, in the midst 
of a presidential compaign that has failed 
to excite much campus interest.
In New Jersey, the four Rutgers campuses 
alone netted nearly 2500 new student 
registrants.
At the University of Oregon, where the 
governor proclaimed Oct. 1st state student 
registration day as well, over 2500 joined 
voter lists.
Students at Cosumnes River College in 
California held a Michael Jackson Lipsyncing contest to entice their classmates to 
sign up at on-campus registration booths.
At Temple University in Philadelphia, stu
dent organizers even passed out voter 
registration forms in classes.
The student vote is very important, and 
the big push is on now for students to get 
out and vote, says Greg Moore, president of 
the U.S. Student Association (USSA), 
another sponsor of the 1984 student vote 
effort.
Right now there are 12 million college 
students, he notes. In 1982 only 48 percent 
of students were registered and only 24 per
cent turned out to vote. Were trying to dou
ble those figures.
By election day, Moore hopes the national 
student vote campaign will have over six 
million students registered and ready to go 
to the polls.
Since last spring USSA, the coalition of 
campus-based Public Interest Research 
| Groups, the College Democrats, and the 
Young Republicans have all been conducting 
ambitious drives to get students registered 
and to the voting booth.
All in all, over 750 campuses have held 
student voter registration activities over the 
last several months, sources report. National 
organizers are working directly with over 
1000 campuses to plan additional 
before the election, they add.
events
This is definitely the most ambitious stu
dent voter registration project in history, 
boasts Kirk Weinert, publications director 
for M-PIRG, which is coordinating the com
bined student vote movement.
Confusing and often antagonistic local 
election laws have hindered registration ef
forts on some campuses, and logistical pro
blems sometimes have muddled organizers 
abilities to coordinate the vote drive on a na
tional level.
Nevertheless, more students probably are 
registered now than for any other election, 
Weinert speculates.
The effects, he adds, could be revolu
tionary.
But while thousands of new students are 
registered, getting them to the polls remains 
a challenge in a presidential race that isnt 
exactly exciting student voters.
While President Reagan has managed to
evoke some passionate campus support and 
gain leads in polls of student presidential 
preferences, the fiery support attracted by 
the earlier candidacies of Jesse Jackson and 
Gary Hart is absent, observers concede.
At predominantly black Xavier College in 
New Orleans, for instance, student excite
ment has dropped to a definite degree 
since Jackson visited last spring and led 
busloads of students to register.
Jackson performed similar feats last fall 
at Tuskegee Institute and Mercer Universi
ty. Just last week, he made enthusiasticallywelcomed registration stops at several 
Maryland campuses.
But such visits are rare these days, so stu
dent vote organizers say they appeal more 
to students sense of civic duty than to im
passioned support for the candidates to get 
students to the polls.
Students will vote on issues, not people,
M-PIRGs Weinert says.
Consequently, the next big push is to 
educate the voters on the issues and why its 
important for them to get out and vote. 
To pique students interest, vote organizers 
are planning a Showdown 84 debate on 
many campuses following the second televi
sion debate between Reagan and Mondale 
on October 21, Weinert says.
Students will assemble to watch the 
debate, and afterward will conduct their 
own local debates involving students, politi
cians, community leaders, faculty and 
administrators.
Student turnout has been pretty low in 
the past, Weinert observes. So to make sure 
they get out to vote well be conducting 
phone campaigns, dorm sweeps and leafletting, sending out sound trucks, and organiz
ing campus car pools and shuttle bus ser
vice to the polls.
Puzzle Answer
To design and develop today's most 
technologically advanced defense products, 
General Dynamics requires the talents of 
highly motivated Engineering and Scientific 
graduates. This year, nearly half of our 1,500 
technical hires will be in Electrical/ 
Electronics Engineering or Computer 
Science  goal-oriented, high-performance 
students who will graduate in the top half 
of their classes.
If you're one of these top performers, 
we'd like to meet with you at our informal 
technical presentation.
DATE: October 24 
TIME: 7 pm
PLACE: Ski bo Building, Room 45
Our representatives will be on hand to 
talk about our spectrum of technological 
opportunities, show you films of our 
product lines and answer all your questions.
Don't settle for less than state of the art in 
your career. See your Placement Office for 
more details about General Dynamics' 
technical presentation.
CAMPUS INTERVIEW DATE:October 25

---------------------------------------------------

The Presidents Distinguished
Lecture Seriespresents
Dotty Lynch
Campaign Strategist
ELECTION 84: 
What the Polls 
Tell Us
Tuesday, October 30, 1984 
4:30 pm 
Skibo Ballroom 
CMU
* CMU *
Emergency
Medical
Squad
meets the first and third 
Wednesday of each 
month at 7:30 pm in 
Skibo (room TBA at Info 
Desk).
Our next meeting is 
Wednesday, October 17 
at 7:30 pm. Come join us.
No previous training necessary to join.
* Funded by Activities Fee *
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive I
Wor&skops and Discussions for Blacks and ews over 18 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26,1984 
9 A.M. - 4 P.M.
RODEF SHALOM TEMPLE 
4905 FIFTH AVENUE 
OAKLAND
REGISTRATION: $5 PER PERSON 
Students free; pre-registration 
required to assure space 
in workshops
Box lunches for all participants
For information call 681-8000, 
ext. 246
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations youll leave 
wrth the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
237 Atwood Street Mon.. Tut*., Wed. 10-7 No Appointment
AcroM the street from Thurs.. Frt. 10-9 UNISF*
Oakland Po.l OlHc. Sat M ^ HAIR SALON
687-3500
FOR Alt STVIFS$25.00
WASH CUT AND
moo ERMCTBTienS
(ANY LENGTH) PRECISION HAIRCUTTEFiS

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
CMU  "best job rye had"
PR Director is friendly, bright, and likes to talk
By JESSICA S. RUDNICK
Tartan Staffwriter
Don Hale is the Director of Public Rela-. 
tions at Carnegie-Mellon University. As 
such, one would expect him to be friendly, 
gregarious, bright, and fond of talking, an 
image he has no problem living up to. I love 
working at CMU, he said, smiling. Its the 
best job Ive had.
Considering Hales experience and 
qualifications, we should be flattered. After 
graduating from Temple University with a 
degree in Communications, his first job was 
as a UPI reporter in Philadelphia. He then 
became PR Director at Drexel University, 
also in Philadelphia. About three years ago, 
he came to CMU.
As Public Relations Director, Hales duties 
include coordinating the PR staff, getting 
CMU into the national media, and keeping 
a sharp eye on the image the university pro
jects, an image which he thinks is good and 
getting better. If CMU were on the stock 
market, he proclaimed, we would be on the 
way up. Carnegie-Mellon is emerging as a 
national university.
According to Hale, CMU is a very special 
place. Where else can you find such a diverse 
mix of excellence? he asked. Not only does 
CMU provide a variety of majors, it is 
outstanding in several of them.
Obviously, one of the best-known images 
CMU has is that of Computer U. There is 
quite a bit of speculation on campus these 
days that more and more hard-core hackers 
and blatant nerds are being admitted to 
CMU every year. I dont really have a feel 
for that, Hale responded in classic PR-man
style. I do realize, however, that we must 
make people aware that we do other things 
at Carnegie-Mellon besides computers.
CMUs extreme geek image was dwelt 
upon endlessly in Lisa Birnbachs recently 
published College Guide. When questioned 
about his attitude towards the book, Hale 
shrugged. I guess you have to have a sense 
of humor about these things. I mean, we 
know its not a true picture of CMU. On the 
other hand, it wasnt particularly funny 
either.
Part of the rest of the worlds escalating 
regard for Carnegie-Mellon has been at
tributed to the relentless efforts of President 
Richard Cyert. Hale is quick to credit Cyert 
with several great accomplishments. I really 
admire Dr. Cyert, and his track record is 
outstanding. He has a very clear vision of 
where he wants the university to go, and with 
his style of running the school, as one would 
run a major business, he has made great 
contributions to CMU. He has transformed 
this school from a regional to a national 
university.
The image of Carnegie-Mellon is, of 
course, not without blemishes. No one is 
likely to soon forget the dreaded alcohol 
problem at our university. Hale thinks this 
particular trumped-up story is particularly 
unfair to the fraternities. I mean, they can 
do any number of charity activities 
throughout the year, and no one says a word. 
But look how they get pounced all over the 
minute its something negative. But the best 
you can do in the face of negative stories is 
to be open and honest, and try to help the 
reporter get the facts straight.
Don Hale
pnoto Dy cnris Johnston
Hale thinks that, despite whatever anyone 
might say to the contrary, CMU students are 
a great bunch of people. All the ones I deal 
with are super-mature, super-bright, superintelligent. They impress the heck out of me. 
I like working on a campus, and my staff
and the students are great. And I like to stay 
active, so I play tennis on campus on my 
lunch hour most days. Thats just one more 
eason I love CMU. This is a great job, and 
in the end it pays off for all of us when peo
ple think well of Carnegie-Mellon.
Libertarian candidate: "a force to be reckoned with
2Editors note: this is the second in a series 
of articles on presidential candidates other 
than the Democratic or Republican backed
ones.
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Editor in Chief
Last spring Sherley Uhl of the Pittsburgh 
Press told David Bergland, Libertarian Party 
candidate for President, he didnt have time 
for an interview.
This fall the entire editorial board of the 
Press interviewed Bergland. According to
Bergland, Uhl told him the Libertarians are 
a force to be reckoned with.
The reason for such interest may be the 
lack of a big-name third candidate in an 
election year when the major parties have 
moved so far left or right.
In other years John Anderson, George 
Wallace, or Barry Commoner acted as an 
alternative. But Bergland claims the in
terest of the Press goes much deeper. He says 
while the Andersons, Wallaces, etc. have 
faded after their election, Libertarians have
been around for twelve years.
The Libertarian Party is currently the 
third largest in the United States. Their 
presidential candidate received 921,199 votes 
in 1980. Their gubernatorial candidates in 
California and Alaska got 5.5% (1978) and 
14.9% (1982) of the vote respectively; and' 
thirty-seven Libertarians hold office in the 
United States.
Most Americans are Libertarians. They 
are just in the act of discovering it, said 
Bergland, a candidate who in 1984 is given 
little chance of victory. He asserts, however, 
If all the voters in this country who were 
frustrated by the choice given were to vote 
for me, Id win by a landslide.
Just what a Libertarian is is simple. 
Briefly stated their party platorm is We seek 
a world of liberty. More specifically accor
ding to the platform:
Individual rights and civil order:
 Crime - On the one hand the party sees 
government as a protector of individual 
rights and a punisher of those perpetrating 
violent crimes. On the other side, govern
ment is seen infringing on the rights of 
others in making laws against victimless
crimes such as drug or alcohol use, 
homosexuality, pornography, gambling, and 
suicide.
 Justice - Libertarians support retribu
tion for victims of crime. Thus, they oppose 
no-fault insurance laws and laws giving im
munity to those living together from rape 
charges.
 The United States Constitution - Liber
tarians view protection of those freedoms as 
set forth in the Constitution such as freedom 
of speech, press, and religion, property, 
privacy as some of the few functions of 
government.
 The Draft - The party condemns any 
form of compulsory service and opposes 
registration as the first step toward full con
scription.
 Unions - The platform supports the 
right of individuals wanting to voluntarily 
join unions and rights of employers to 
recognize or deny such existence. They op
pose back-to-work orders and compulsory 
arbitration.
 Immigration - Libertarians believe im
migration to and emigration from the U.S.
continued on page 8
PRESIDENT
David Bergland

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanOctober 16, 1984
ELECTION
SKIBO BALLROOM 
CARNEGIE-MELLON 
UNIVERSITY 
8:00 PM
CARNEGIE MELLON
UNIVERSITY
PRESENTS
DISTINGUISHED SPEAKERS 
DEBATING THE 
CRITICAL
CAMPAIGN ISSUES
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
FREE ADMISSION
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
CALL SKIBO INFO 578 2107
CRITICAL 
CHOICES
WEAPONS IN SPACE - OCT. 16.Tuesday
I GENERAL JAMES A ABRAHAMSON 
STRATEGIC DEFENSE INITIATIVE
D!R OF THE
-U S Air Force
-Office of the Secretary of Defense 
-former Associate Admimstrator,NASA 
responsible for the Space Shuttle program
# ADMIRAL NOEL GAYLER - CHAIRMAN OF THE AMERICAN 
COMMITTEE ON EAST-WEST ACCORD
-U S Navy(retired)
-Chairman of the General Nuclear Settlement 
project
-former Commander, U S Forces, Pacific
AMERICA S ECONOMIC FUTURE - OCT.25
0 BARRY BOSWORTH
-Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution 
-Former Director, President Carter s Council 
on Wage and Price Stability
% JERRY JORDAN
-Dean of Management, University of New Mexico 
-Former Member, President Reagan s Council of 
Economic Advisers
R.A. duties appear nice, but are by no means cushy
By JEFF HATALA
Tartan Staffwriter
When you think of your R.A., what is the 
first thing that comes to mind? A nice room, 
probably a single? A good paying, cushy job? 
True, an R. A.s room is generally nice. True, 
an R. A. does get paid a nice salary. But his 
job is by no means cushy. Just ask an R.A.
The uneasiness starts during the applica
tion process, which takes place from January 
to April. The applicant goes through a per
sonal interview with housing officials, and
then fill out a series of forms. Next comes 
a series of group interviews, where possible 
problems that an R.A. may be presented with 
are attempted to be solved. After this, the 
selection is narrowed down; then, more in
terviews take place. Thus comes the final 
selection.
The uneasiness continues a week before 
classes begin for training. This training is 
about 14 hours a day, minus an hour for 
lunch and for dinner. During training, 
R. A.s learn what is expected of them, and 
what their responsibilities are such as
Bergland states platform
continued from page 7
ought to be unrestricted.
 Civil rights - No individual should be 
denied or abridged by the laws of the United 
States ... on account of sex, race, color, 
creed, age, national origin or sexual 
preference. Also, according to Dick Boddie, 
Bergland campaign fund raiser, The issue 
[of civil rights] is liberty, not quotas. 
Trade and The Economy 
Government intervention in the economy 
imperils both the personal freedom and the 
material prosperity of every American.
The platform urges:
1. Drastic reduction of taxes and govern
ment spending.
2. An end to budget deficits.
3. A halt to inflationary monetary 
policies.
4. Removal of all government im
pediments to free trade.
5. Repeal of all controls of wages, prices, 
rents, profits, production and interest rates. 
Domestic Ills
 Pollution - Pollution of other peoples 
property is a violation of individual rights. 
Therefore, the party believes polluters,
private or governmental, ought to be liable 
for injury to individuals and for clean-up of 
toxic waste.
 Education - We advocate the complete 
separation of education and State.
As intermediate measures, the platform 
supports tuition tax credits and elimination 
of forced bussing and corporal punishment.
 Agriculture - Libertarians suggest aboli
tion of government embargoes, price sup
ports, subsidies, and inheritance taxes. 
Foreign Affairs
The Libertarian Party advocates 
negotiaions with all countries regardless of 
moral legitamacy. The platform also con
demns foreign violations of human rights 
and economic liberty. But the party strong
ly opposes U.S. intervention in the name of 
human rights or protection of American 
economic interests.
Military
We recognize the necessity for maintain
ing a sufficient military force to defend the 
United States against agression.
However, the party would reduce the size 
and cost of the military, including 
withdrawal of all troops abroad.
maintenance, advising residents, being an 
information resource, programming social 
events, and to a certain extent, security. 
They also learn about themselves, Training 
brings out a lot of stuff in yourself that you 
dont think you can do, says Steve Pomraning, Head Resident for Morewood. An ex
ample of this is getting to know all the names 
and faces of all the residents in their respec
tive areas. One R.A. stated, Knowing my 
residents names and faces was the most dif
ficult thing for me. I never thought Id learn 
them all.
Then, the R.A.s officially begin their 
duties. The first three weeks as an R.A. is 
really, really, really tough, said Karen Lee, 
a Morewood R.A. There is so much work 
R.A.-ing that you have to find a balance 
(between schoolwork and R.A.-ing), and it 
takes a while to adjust.
Is all this work worth it? R.A.s definitely 
say yes. Lee added, I feel good about myself 
and about being able to handle the respon
sibility. I have greater respect for R.A.s 
not because I am one but because I know 
how much it takes. You have to commit 
yourself to it. This seems to be common opi
nion among the other R.A.s.
Many students do not know that the R.A.s 
do a lot of work, and they accuse their R.A.s 
of not doing their job well. Some residents 
reason since they are paying a large sum of 
money to live here, their R.A. should pro
vide enough activities for them when they 
want them. If you feel that way, then maybe 
you arent doing your part as a resident. 
They dont know what you like. They dont 
know everything. Contrary to the beliefs of 
some, they are students, iust like the rest of
An alumna relaxes in a quiet moment on

---------------------------------------------------

r
Launch hour. Throttles are at full Navy flying. And no other job
power as a supersonic roar sweeps can match the kind of manageacross the flight deck. And youre ment responsibility you get so
the pilot. quickly in the Navy.
The catapult fires and G forces The rewards are there, too. 
slam you back into your seat. SecAround-the-world travel oppor 
onds later, youre punching a hole tunities with a great starting
in the clouds and looking good. salary of 819.2(H). As much
Nothing beats the excitement of as $33,600 after four years with
promotions and pay increases.
Take off for tomorrow in the 
Navy. With top-level training 
to help you build technical and 
managerial skills youll use for 
a lifetime. Dont just settle into 
a job; launch a career. See your 
Navv Recruiter orCALL 800-327-NAVY.
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.
October 16, 1984The TartanPage 9
Works of art students on display at Forbes Gallery probe nature of art
By ARTHUR GELMIS
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
The College of Fine Arts occupies a 
distinctly unique building on campus. Its 
translucent roof is one of the features that 
distinguish it. Directly underneath the roof, 
on the 4th floor, which is accessible by a nar
row staircase, are the spacious art studios fill
ed with mystical and at the same time 
familiar daylight. This is where art instruc
tor Jim Denney teaches drawing and pain
ting or as he would say, explores with his 
students the nature of art.
This exploration of What is painting to
day is the unifying thread of the exhibition 
opening today at the Forbes Gallery, located 
on the corner of Forbes and Margaret Mor
rison. It will feature the works of eight or 
nine of Denneys students.
It is much more than an exploration of 
the craft from a technical standpoint, said 
Denney. It deals with the problems of 
representation; for example, what kinds of 
ideas can be represented in art, and are
there some ideas that are outside the scope 
of artistic representation.
The students here are very sophisticated, 
continued Denney, and are aware of the ma 
jor trends in painting. In his opinion, many 
of the works are very provocative; however, 
he feels they may require an informed au
dience to decipher their meaning.
Denney sees the exhibition as an oppor
tunity to raise questions. Since it is not a 
professional exhibition, there is no money 
exchanged, and it serves educational rather 
than commercial purposes.
Karen Frank, one of the students whose 
work will be on display, explained the value 
of the exhibition by saying, It is important 
to see your work out ot the studio in a gallery 
and, also, to get feedback from other peo
ple.
The exhibition will last one week, affor
ding those of us unable to do it in the 
spacious art studios on the 4th floor of the 
College of Fine Arts the opportunity to ex
plore, albeit vicariously, the nature of art.As we move into October, Fall has become more evident.

---------------------------------------------------

Funded by Activities Fee
fl fl COFFHOUS
SRTURDRV OCTOB6R 20 
8:00 UJHRRTT ROOM

---------------------------------------------------

ArtistFrancis Crisafio opened Paintings, Etchings and Drawings last Saturday at 
ii-_j*latant Imape Gallery. Story on page 13. _________________________________
m  " - - -.............. .... . . ------;-----^-----  ' .       , -' " . . 
Entertainment.
Myths author weaves fantastic tales of the strange
Eclectic mix of student paintings 
shown this week at Forbes Gallery
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
Special to The Tartan
An exhibition of painting by a number of 
CMU students opens at the Forbes Gallery 
this evening. The show, which features pain
tings chosen by Jim Denney, Assistant Pro
fessor of Painting, is intended to display a 
variety of student painting. The opening will 
be celebrated from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
This show is not intended to give a 
manifesto of what painting is at CMU, says 
Denney. Its a simple concept  we have 
many fine art students at CMU. Like ex
cellent students anywhere, they ask difficult 
questions of the nature of the thing they are 
doing. This show is built around paintings 
that ask some of those questions.
Denney feels that the show is not 
necessarily about work that looks good. He 
sees the show more as a tentative display of 
the processes that go on in a painting pro
gram .
The exhibit will be held at the Forbes 
Gallery until October 21. Gallery hours are 
11:00 to 6:00 Wednesday to Friday and noon 
to 5:00 Saturday and Sunday.
High prices and poor quality prompt illegal home record taping
By ANDREW MAYER
Tartan Staffwriter
If youve heard of Another Fine Myth by 
Robert Lynn Asprin before but are not quite 
sure what its about, youre not alone. For 
the last few years all the books in the Myth 
series have only been available in 
rather expensive, hard-to-get 
trade paperback editions. 
Recently, however, the first book 
was released in a format that his reviewer 
could afford. I enjoyed it enough that when 
the rest are available in this size, 111 get them 
also.
Many of you may know Asprin from his 
immensely popular Thieves World series. In 
those books he was the editor, only occa
sionally using one of his own short stories. 
If youre expecting Thieves World , forget 
it. For one thing, this book is not nearly as 
well written.Theres a descriptive flair which 
many top authors have that he does not. 
Sometimes he loses characterization and 
things seem to fall out of his control as a 
writer. However, the strength of this book 
does not lie in the quality of the writing. I 
recommend this bock because, after all its 
faults, the plot is truly clever, funny, and 
original.
Another Fine Myth is a story of wierd 
things happening to strange people. One is 
a rather tall, scaly Pervect named Aahz, the 
other a rather human magicians apprentice 
named Skeeve. These two join forces to stop 
a Demon named Isstvan. They are soon
joined by a Demon hunter, a female thief, 
and a dragon. Saying any more would be 
giving away the plot, but believe me  this 
book is different.
The book also has something that I con
sider to be very important, that I call (for 
lack of a better name) insulated reality^ 
What I mean by that is, if a story is at all 
beyond the ordinary, I ask that there be a 
consistant logic within the story, Many times 
books or movies have things happen with no 
reason. If, no matter how hard the reader 
tries, he cannot come up with an explana
tion for an event, then there is something 
wrong.
With so many strange things happening 
it would be easy to let things go unexplain
ed, but this does not happen in this book. 
Another Fine Myth is not stupid. It is really 
quite solidly built, within its own context.
I dont recommend this book for everyone. 
If youre looking for good, solid reading with 
your humor then reread the Hitchhikers 
books. The flow here is rather comic-book 
in nature, and it is pure escapism. Also, as 
mentioned before, it is not any literary 
masterpiece. (Some of the chapter headings 
are priceless, though.) Its also a book that 
most people can read through pretty quickly, 
but with the reduced price this isnt much 
of a problem.
To conclude, buy this book. Its fun and 
totally wild. Topped off with a good (or at 
least different) sense of reality, its well worth 
the price. If you dont agree, well .. . thats
your Mythtake.
Recommended: Callahan's Crosstime 
Saloon by Spider Robinson. Here is a book 
about people youd like to meet in a place 
youd like to visit. The only thing is that 
sometimes very' strange things happen.
These are short stories about people who 
want to help other people, about good times 
and bad times, and about space travellers, 
and the destruction of the Earth.
Take this b6ok home, and read it if you 
are depressed. It should help cheer you up.
The Pittsburgh Record Fair takes place this Saturday, October 21, from 10:00 am to 
4:00 pm at the Islam Grotto, 725 Allegheny Avenue. It offers a selection of 500,000 
records as well as guest DJs, jukeboxes, and movies. Admission is $2.50.____________
By AL DATRI
Tartan Staffwriter
Have you ever borrowed an album from 
a friend and taped it? Or perhaps recorded 
it straight off a radio station? If so, the ma
jor record companies regard you as a scourge 
far worse and more prevalent than bootleg
gers and counterfeiters: you are a home 
taper.
The major record companies have for 
years been disdaining the practice of home 
taping. They state that every time someone 
tapes a friends album instead of buying it 
legitimately they lose revenue. Some com
panies are so outraged by this practice that 
they have gone to court to ban the sale of 
blank tapes. The rulings on these matters 
have generally been vague, and the record 
companies often end up back in court try
ing to stiffen the resultant laws.
The general trend of these rulings is that 
the legal owner may reproduce any legally 
purchased material for his own personal use
but cannot distribute any copies to anyone 
else. This is the major concern of the record 
companies, but even they realize that these 
laws, no matter how strict, are impossible 
to enforce.
This has prompted them to redirect their 
efforts to banning the sale of blank tapes. 
If someone cant obtain a blank tape, they 
obviously cant very well record someone 
elses albums. But this would put a rather 
large dent in the profits and even existance 
of companies that manufacture tapes, such 
as TDK. To enforce laws like this would go 
against the principles of free enterprise that 
our country enspouses. Hence little has been 
done in the way of banning blank tapes.
There are several reasons why people il
legally tape music. The foremost is obvious 
to anyone who ever looked at the price scale 
in National Record Mart: money. It is more 
appealing to many people to $1.97 for 
three Certron tapes and record six oi a 
friends albums than to pay $9 per album.
A second reason is the quality of the recor
ding. The average prerecorded cassette is 
duplicated at 64 to 128 times normal speed 
onto a tape that John Q. Public could by in 
the local K-Mart for around 70 cents. This 
high dubbing rate loses any highs that ever 
had a chance to reach the tape. You also end 
up with a tape that is going to eat the heads 
in your tape deck while it slowly falls apart.
A far better recording can be obtained by 
recording onto a good tape using some sort 
of noise reduction (Dolby, dbx, etc.). Even 
given the sinful lack of quality of domestic 
disks, the quality of the average home-taped 
album will be superior to that of most 
prerecorded cassettes.
Other people buy an album legally, record 
it at home, and listen to the tape to cut down 
wear on the disk. Although the record com
panies officially are against this practice, 
they dont rant and rave about it because 
they are still getting someone to pay for the 
album.
A new practice that outrages the record 
companies more than any other is the ren 
ting of albums. One can rent an album from 
certain stores for around $1 a day and tape 
it at home. When the record companies con
front the proprieters of such establishments, 
they say that they are renting the albums for 
people to listen to, and no one ever told them 
to record them. But both sides know that the 
only thing that keeps this practice thriving
is home taping.
When presented with the above 
arguments, some record companies point to 
their special lines of cassettes that are 
duplicated at normal speed onto a high-bias 
tape with Dolby B. But it is difficult to find 
a store that sells these tapes, not to mention 
a tape of anything other than classical or 
opera. Ask them about these tapes and they 
will say We have this really great recording 
of Beethovens Ninth! You can tell them that 
you would like to hear the babbling brook 
in Rushs 2112 above the tape hiss, and they 
will say, We dont have that, but we have 
this really great Beethovens Ninth! Most 
record companies refuse to believe that 
anyone who listens to popular or even (gasp) 
rock music can tell the difference between 
a voice and tape hiss. Better yet, try to find 
even the limited offerings of this sort for 
under $15.
The record companies certainly have a 
valid point as far as lost revenue goes, and 
they deserve to get returns on their invest
ment in the production of an album. 
Perhaps if they would press albums made 
from real vinyl instead of last years melted 
cut-outs, people would buy more of them. 
Or even a prerecorded tape that would last 
more than five plays before it stretched and 
broke. But as long as they charge outrageous 
prices for inferior products, people will con
tinue to illegally tape albums.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanOctober 16, 1984
COTUME ETDAODDINAIDE
AUTHENTIC /4PB4REL FROM 1850-1960
CLUB VINTAGE CLOTHIERANONYMOUS
284 MOREWOOD BETWEEN CENTRE & BAUM
12-6 MON-FRI 11-6 SAT681-9387
Ramones still cranking out classic rebel rock 7? roll...
By MARK ISKOWITZ
Special to The Tartan
The Ramones - Too Tough to Die (Sire) 
Exciting ninth LP by an original 76 NY 
punk band that paved the way for American 
hardcore. They will never be sedated as long 
as they continue to creatre vital, energetic 
rebellious rock and roll for the young. This 
record reunites the previous production team 
responsible for the classic, Road To Ruin, 
and allows Eurythmics Dave Stewart to add 
further depth on one song. These veterans 
still pack a heavy punch.
Flipper  Gone Fishin (Subterranean) 
Surprising long-awaited LP from one of 
Americas most popular hardcore/skank 
bands. Bruce Lose and Will Shatter howl 
and croon through 8 brash and cynical 
numbers. Sax, congas, clarinet, and piano
strike unconventional but fitting chords in 
the groups new deeper arrangements. 
Afrika Bambaata 8c James Brown  Unity 
(Tommy Boy)
An appealing musical crusade for world 
peace headed by the father of hip-hop 
funk and the godfather of soul. What a 
combination! The Unity message appears 
in six parts with bonus nonsense rapping by 
Brown in between cuts. Energetic and 
full-spirited.
The Church  Remote Luxury (Warner
Brothers)
Intriguing debut American release by a 
seasoned Australian quartet whose enticing 
neopsychedelic sound transcends hasty 
down-under stereotyping. The music is texturally and melodically rich, driven by 
acoustic and electric guitars. The album
jingles and jangles a bit like The Byrds and 
R.E.M. while climbing to higher at
mospheres. It flies to 10,000 Miles and 
more.
Jamaaladeen Tacuma  Renaissance Man 
(Gramavison)
Jazz/avant-funk bassist Tacuma continues
to break ground with complex rhythmic in
strumentals featuring all his cool buddies. 
The great Ornette Coleman, Bill Bruford, 
and other notables form the core in the 
songs, recorded here and abroad.
U2  The Unforgettable Fire (Island) 
Steve Lillywhite out. Brian Eno and Dan 
Lanois in. A vastly matured U2 shines forth 
continued on page 13
6. Blue Highways, by William Least Heat Moon.
(Fawcett, $3.95.) A look at life at the back roads of America.
7. Megatrends, by John Naisbitt. (Warner, $3.95.) 
Forecasting America's future.
8. Winter's Tale, by Mark Heiprin. (Pocket, $4.50.) 
Mythical tale about Manhattans past and future.
Campus Paperback Bestsellers
1. In Search of Excellence, by T. J. Peters & R. H. Waterman Jr. 
(Warner, $8.95.) A look at the secrets of successful business.
2. The Name of the Rose, by Umberto Eco. (Warner, $4.95.) 
Murder in an Italian monastery.
3. August, by Judith Rossner. (Warner, $4.50.)
Five years in the lives of two women.
4.
5.
The One Minute Manager, by K. Blanchard & S. Johnson. 
(Berkley, $6.95.) How to increase your productivity.
Hollywood Wives, by Jackie Collins. (Pocket, $3.95.) 
Glamourous lives of the women behind the men in Tinseltown.
The Color Purple, by Alice Walker. (Washington Square 
Press, $5.95.) Winner of the 1983 American Book Award.
Thurston House, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $3.95.)
San Francisco Family saga.
10.

---------------------------------------------------

October 16, 1984The TartanPage 13
... while U2 matures with new featured members
continued from page 12
on this fourth studio LP, a light and dark 
textural work combining Enos keen sense of 
ambience and the bands ringing emotion. 
Songs like Elvis Presley and America and 
Wire represent natural departures for the 
group, whose even greater suppressed talent 
has finally begun to emerge. Bums with unPaintings, Etchings and Drawings, a new 
show by Pittsburgh artist Francis Crisafio, 
opened at Blatent Image Gallery Saturday, 
October 13, from 7:00 to 9:00 pm. The show 
will continue through November 7.
Crisafio, a Bloomfield native, is a selftaught artist who has been working in Pitt
sburgh for the past fifteen years. He views 
his current work as an evolution, not a final 
statement. The work in this show has been 
executed within the past three years, but 
Crisafio feels the pieces create a portrait of 
a single effect, namely, the unconscious 
making itself conscious.
Crisafios paintings, small drawings, and 
monocrome etchings are highly personal, 
emotionally concerned expressions that are 
at once autobiographical and readily ac
cessible. Crisafios work, he claims, reveals 
its technique through a process of discovery 
 that is, his work is not an intentional ex
ercise of technique but rather a process of
New troupe of 
veterans premiere 
In Celebration
October marks the birth of Theatre Pitt
sburgh , a collaborative effort by actors and 
theatre enthusiasts from virtually every 
theatre company in the city. The new troupe 
of veteran actors will be performing two 
shows this fall in the old Laboratory Theatre 
space at 420 North Craig Street in Oakland.
The appropriately titled In Celebration, 
by David Storey, will be the companys 
premier production. The show opens on Oc
tober 18 and will run four weekends, Thurs
day through Saturday nights at 8:15 pm with 
Sunday matinees at 2:30 pm. The Subject 
Was Roses, by Frank Gilroy, is slated for 
November 23 - December 16.
The new company, cultural brain-child of 
theatre notables Bingo OMalley, Bob an Pat 
Stoll and Eileen Guigley, is a labor of love 
for everyone involved. The fact that the 
theatre space was to remain dark through 
the end of the year was too much for us. 
Weve found two very worthwhile plays to 
produce, recruited the best actors and sup
port staff; were even funding the project 
ourselves.
Joining the founders of Theatre Pitt
sburgh are Nan Mogg, Alan Pinsker, Mary 
Alice Bialock, G.W. Rooney, Curt DeBor, 
Kathlene Horgan, Carol Athey, William 
Kindelan, Trish Smithton, Ted Hoover, An
drew Gilfilla and Gary Podolsky. Additional 
volunteers would be welcomed, however, and 
may call 683-3474.
ALLEGHENY WOMEN'S 
CENTER<*n out patient modicjl clinic <>lferine
 Abortionasleep or awake
 Morning After Treatment
 Birth Control
 Related Services
commerciality and conviction.
Scraping Foetus Off The Wheel  Hole 
(Some Bizarre UK)
The next angst-filled chapter in the conti
nuing saga of Clint Ruin, the sick British in
dustrial poet. Packed with innovative sound 
treatments and weird industrial and elec
tronic instrumentation. With brutally vithe imagery evolving the technique, where 
the images are more allowed than intend
ed.
This show at Blatent Image Gallery is 
Crisafios first one-man exhibit. The gallery, 
located at 1015 East Carson Street on the 
South Side, will be open Wednesday through 
Sunday from 1:00 to 6:00 pm during this ex
hibit. Showing concurrently throughout this 
month in the gallerys Small Room will be 
a selection of new recent photographs by 
gallery members Seth Dickerman, Lorraine 
Vullo, Bob Pointon, Pam Bryan, Tom 
Underiner, Tom Cox, and others.
sionary lyrics and titles, like Lust for Death 
and Water Torture, Foetus is not for light 
listening, but it must be heard.
Captain Beefheart & His Magic Band 
The Legendary A&M Sessions (A&M) 
Delightful reissue of the long unavailable 
first singles plus an unreleased track from 
1965. Two R&B covers and three early 
originals, which hint at the Beefheart magic 
to come. Diddy Wah Diddy indeed.
The Waterboys  A Pagan Place (Island) 
Excellent first album conceived by British 
genius multi-instrumentalist Mike Scott. 
Shimmering blend of acoustic sounds in 
highly emotional songs of love and hate. 
Scott changes the meaning of crescendo. 
Very colorful, filling the mind with vivid im
ages of struggle and ecstasy. He has seen 
The Big Music.
The Long Ryders  Native Sons (Frontier) 
Consistently strong effort by 60s-style 
L. A. rock and roll outfit. Combines the finer 
elements (soaring harmonies and aggressive 
electric guitar) of the paisley underground 
sound with no-frills roots country-western. 
Run Dusty Run, they say, but, please, not 
away from this crucial, purely American 
slice of vinyl.
All these records may be heard on
WRCT-FM.
(Mark Iskowitz is the music director of 
WRCT, Pittsburgh.)
WRCTTOP 10 ALBUMS
1. The Red Hot Chili Peppers
The Red Hot Chili Peppers
2. Black Flag
Slip It In
3. The Swimming Pool Q*s
The Swimming Pool Qj
4. Husker Du
Zen Arcade
5. Summers and Fripp
Bewitched
6. Talking Heads
Stop Making Sense
7. Del Fuegos
The Longest Day
8. U2
- The Unforgettable Fire
9. The Hoodoo Gurus
Stoneage Romeos
10. XTC
All You Pretty Girls  (12-inch) 
(compiled by Mark Iskowitz.)
She will become
their most deadly weapon.
As long as they can make 
her fall in love.
DIANE KEATON
THELITTLEDRUMMERGIRL
A GEORGE ROY HILL FILM 
DIANE KEATON 
m JOHN LE CARRE S 
THE LITTLE DRUMMER GIRL"
Y0RG0 VOYAGIS KLAUS KINSKI Musk by DAVE GRUSIN 
Executive Producer PATRICK KELLEY 
Screenplay by LORING MANDEL 
Bosed on the novel by JOHN LE CARRE 
Produced by ROBERT I CRAWFORD 
Directed by GEORGE ROY HILL
  V ****** to*0;r-rr:-....
R1 ! _werTW_$iL 1ftUM  t mi** I *m'  *r *
IttAOTHCiANlAHHttKl
Starts Friday, Oct. 19th at a Theatre Near You.
Local artist opens autobiographical 
exhibit at Blatent Image Gallery
\ Allegheny^ Women sC enter </
mT fi Bldg. 
Whitfield St 
PA 26*
ONI 413/363-30

---------------------------------------------------

PRESIDENTIAL 
CAMPAIGN
PARTY!
Saturday,OCTOBER 20,8-oo rm. in the skibo ballroom
LIBATIONS NOURISHMENT PROVIDED
come cast your vofce I
 write-in candidates welcome 
TICKETS $2.00 AT SKIBO DESK OR FROM OSO REP.
$3-00 AT DOOR

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
HOMECOMING:
Tartans get off to slow start, but recover 
early to coast to victory over Grove City
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
Eugene T.D. Smith ran 70 yards for the 
clinching touchdown as CMU defeated PAC 
newcomer Grove City College 35-17 Satur
day in the Homecoming game at Tech Field.
The Tartans enter next weeks contest 
against PAC co-leader Washington and Jef
ferson with a 5-1 record, undefeated in con
ference play with a 4-0 record and ranked 
eleventh in Division III.
Tech started off sluggish on defense, let
ting the GC offense, which averages just 86 
yards per game rushing, gain 56 yards on 
the ground in the first six-and-one-half 
minutes. However, when Grove City had to 
go to the air on third-and-five from the 
CMU 12 yard line, the result was to be an 
omen for the rest of the game.
Defensive end Scott Bachik was all over 
fullback Tom White, who was trying to block 
him. Bachik jumped and deflected quarter
back Gary Lapias pass to the ground. GCs 
Bill Sopchak had to kick a 29 yard field goal, 
which barely fell over the crossbar for three
Bachik was one of the few highlights on 
The unit played solidly but Bachik 
outstanding. He was in on three QB 
^acks in the game and deflected two passes.
Bachik seemed to rise to all key situations. 
)n Grove Citys next drive, Bachik sacked 
ipia on a third-and-five play that drove GC 
>ack to their own 14 yard line, setting up 
k>od field position for the Tartans next 
Irive. Joe Orlowski helped out with a fine 
mnt return, and CMU went 32 yards for 
leir first score. Victor Boland ran the last 
|8 yards of the drive on four carries.
In the second quarter, with CMU leading 
-3, the GC Wolverines got the ball on their 
m 42 after a poor 25 yard punt by Mike 
iensel. Bachik took care of the initial field 
asition by sacking Lapia for a seven yard 
Iss. But this time the Wolverines fought 
Hick, and on third-and-17 completed a 21 
I rd pass to Brian Herrick for the first down.
GC went to the CMU 40, and on a thirdkd-five play, Lapia dropped back to pass.
It was probably no surprise to Lapia, but 
Bachik was in his face again. The senior co
captain from Johnstown, Pennsylvania 
deflected the pass to halt the Wolverines 
once again.
CMU followed that by driving 60 yards for 
a TD, capped by Anthony Collaros fourth 
touchdown run of the season, a one yard 
plunge. The drive was aided by two pass in
terference calls on GC defenders.
Just to make sure Lapia remembered him, 
Bachik combined with Paul Scarmazzi on 
the last play of the first half, which ended 
14-3 CMU.
Bachik said, The quarterback is a small 
kid. Sometimes it goes, sometimes it doesnt. 
Lapia was setting up too close to the fullback 
(who was blocking Bachik), which worked 
to my advantage. Most of the time it was 
a case of Bachik blowing over White, who 
was overmatched.
Smith, who ran 62 yards for a touchdown 
last week on the first play of the second half, 
waited five minutes this time before break
ing into the clear for the score that put CMU 
up 21-3. Smith finished with 76 yards on four 
carries, an average of 19 yards per carry. He 
had been averaging 7.6 yards in leading 
CMU with 225 yards.
Smith described his run as ecstasy. I cut 
outside and Ross [Jicomelli] took the man 
out. I guess everyone else was on the ground, 
because it was clear sailing from there.
Mike Hensel played a good game, running 
for 71 yards and throwing for 100 more, in
cluding a 77 yard pass to tight end Mike 
Behling. Behling was stopped on the ten 
yard line.
It was a fake sweep, said Hensel. The 
defensive backs fired up to stop the run, and 
they guessed wrong. Behling got in behind 
them, and he was wide open.
Tartan Tattlers15 seniors played in their 
final home game Saturday. They were 
Bachik, Jicomelli, and Dave Zito, the three 
co-captains; Lee Andre, Harley Carroll, Rob 
Fleischman, Mike Garverick, Joe Glinka, 
Tim Griffith, John Herold, Mike Holodnik, 
Roger Roble, Paul Scarmazzi, Jim Scarpone, 
and T.D. Smith... Fleischman had five 
points and needs just six to surpass the 
100-point plateau... Tom Frost had two 
sacks-m the final minutes. .. Next weeks 
game against W&J should decide the con
ference championship. . . CMU defeated 
W&J 20-0 last year, though W&J was inside 
the Tartan 30 yard line seven times without 
scoring... Bachik was named player-of-the - 
game by the WRCT and Tartan sport 
staffs...next weeks game will be broadcast 
on WRCT (88.3 FM)... The winners of the 
Mr. and Miss Varsity contest were Anton 
Nimblett and Pam Snyder.
Left cornerback Mike LaValle takes on a Grove City opponent in Saturday's Homecoming game.
MU women take Pennwood West tennis crown
The Carnegie-Mellon womens tennis team finished its season last Saturday at Bethany, 
it earned the Pennwood West conference title by defeating St. Francis 21-19. The team 
kd three conference finalists, including the conference champions in first and second
CMU 21 
St. Francis 19
Conference Finalists
1st Singles 
first round
second round
2nd Singles  
first round
Daina Baumhammers 
defeated Gonzalez 
(Seton Hill)
6-0, 6-2
lost to Heyde 
(Bethany)
6-1, 6-2
Darla Messick 
lost to Rohaly 
(Bethany)
6-3, 7-5
3rd Singles 
final round
1st Doubles 
final round
2nd Doubles 
final round
Loren a Miller 
lost to Goss 
(St. Francis)
6-3, 7-5
Liza Reed and Laurie Arendas 
Conference Champions 
defeated Gilette and 
Grottenhacer 
(Seton Hill)
1-6, 7-5, 64
Leslie Inglese and Andrea 
Benowitz
Conference Champions 
defeated Davis and Bell 
(Washington and Jefferson)
7-6, 7-5

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanOctober 16, 1984
 Electronics Engineers  Mechanical Engineers  Computer Scientists
Our major research programs are: *
 National defense (nuclear weapons and defensive systems research)  Magnetic Fusion 
Energy  Laser Fusion  Energy Research  Biomedical and Environmental Research
ON CAMPUS 
TUESDAY 
OCTOBER 23
See your Placement Office for more information, or write to: 
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, P.O. Box 5510. Dept. 
JCR, Livermore, CA 94550. 
An eaual opportunity employer m/f/h. 
U.S. citizenship required.
University of CaliforniaI  Lawrence Livermore L-4 National Laboratory
Setters andhitters combine for volleyball sweep
By DON EGGERT
Tartan Sports Editor
The CMU womens volleyball team con
tinued its winning ways last Wednesday 
night, upping its record to 13-4 with victories 
over Bethany and Seton Hill. Bethany 
defeated Seton Hill 2-1 in the middle game 
of the triangular event, which was held at 
home in Skibo Gym.
The opening match featured a quick at
tack by the Bisons that took advantage of a 
slow Tartan start, and Bethany defeated 
CMU 15-11 in the first game. According to 
Coach Jane Fisk, the loss was due to a 
failure to read Bethanys attack and cover 
the proper areas of the court. She added, 
In the second game they began to get the 
feel of the game. Blocking and hitting began 
to work. As a result, the Tartans bounced 
back to win, 16-14. They coasted to an easy 
victory in the decisive third game, 15-5.
The Tartans took the final match of the 
evening in a closely fought battle against 
Seton Hill, winning by scores of 15-11 and 
15-13. Fisk attributed the victory to a very
effective middle attack, and said that the 
team played its best match of the season.
The team used a combination of in
dividual performances to reach that peak. 
One sets were used with Karen Kmetz and 
high away sets with Monica Zalewsky. The 
two middle hitters put the ball consistently 
to the floor, and as a result the outside hit
ters became even more effective. Setters 
Marianne Smith and team captain Janet 
Stariha did a good job of setting to the hit
ters. Chris Coleman, Susan Jordan, and Liz 
Smith filled key roles with clutch hitting and 
blocking. Finally, Carol Lau and Gina 
Coelho, the teams mighty mites according 
to Fisk, kept the ball in play with superb 
back-line play.
Overall, Fisk feels the teams major 
weakness are not being able to read oppo
nents dinks (slight taps over the net into 
an open area) and not always blocking con
sistently, while major strengths include team 
depth and the wide range of hitters. The 
team is hoping for a seasons-end bid to the 
NCAA tournament.A well-timed scoop saves a point for CMU last Wednesday night.
MMRENCE UR/MORErunoTMLMBOR4TORYTECHNO EXCELH SINCE 1962

---------------------------------------------------

October 16, 1984The TartanPage 17
Take Stock 
of Your Health
Anderson leads soccer team to seventh win
fnwarHc tKo /"------ - * 'By FRANK ISAACS
Tartan Staffivriter
With outstanding play from sophomore 
Doug Anderson, CMUs soccer team shut out 
Grove City College 3-0 last Saturday. The 
victory brings the teams record to 7-1-0 with 
six games remaining.
Anderson scored all three goals, with two 
assists from junior Charlie Lockhead and 
one from team captain Neal Frink. Early in 
the game, Anderson was hit hard by an op
posing player. He got up, apparently in pain 
as he held his hip, but he went on to play 
a strong game.
The third and clinching goal, scored with 
just over 9 minutes remaining in the game, 
was scored when Lockhead headed the ball
towards the Grove City goalie. The 
goalkeeper deflected the ball into the air, 
where it was headed into the goal by 
Anderson.
Coach Nick Gaudioso feels the team has 
a good chance at making the NCAA 
playoffs. This Saturdays game, against 
Bethany, will be a tough one, but if they 
can win, he is optimistic about the team 
gaining a spot in the playoffs. We work 
hard, he says of the team. Since August 
20th, weve had only one day off.
The team lost only one player this year, 
which also contributes to the teams success. 
In the past, CMU seemed more geared 
towards its football team, but, says 
Gaudioso, were now gaining respect as a 
soccer team.
UU -I Cl~lu u0 J IIIilli\L I
ON FEEDBACK : A WEEKLY TALK SHOW
10/17 Ed Winn
Presidential candidate for the Workers League Party
10/24 L5
An interview promoting space development 
5:30-6:30 pm Wednesdays
funded by activies fee
photo by Rob McNicholas
Caleb Corkery (8) outmaneuvers a Grove City defender in CMUs 30 shutout vic
tory last Saturday at Grove City. The soccer team, to play Bethany next week, will 
be vying for a spot in the NCAA playoffs.
JOIN US FOR A SPECIALHEALTHWORKS ASSESSMENT
PROGRAM SPONSORED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES
TUESDAY. OCT 23 & WEDNESDAY. OCT. 24
llam -2pm 
SKIBO ROOM 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanOctober 16, 1984
Field hockey squad 
ends difficult season
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Staff writer
The Tartan field hockey squad closed out 
its regular season last week with two disap
pointing losses. The first was a 7-0 tally 
against Bethany last Tuesday, in which the 
Tartans lost their bid for the conference field 
hockey title, and the second was a 2-1 loss 
to Chatham on Friday.
The Bethany game was perhaps the most 
physical and intense of the year for the Tar
tans. They played, at least in the games 
opening stages, like their lives depended on 
it. Several Tartans took hits to their bodies 
by the ball but kept on playing.
Despite the Tartans display of courage 
and fortitude, Bethany was in charge of the 
game from the beginning. The Bisons only
managed two goals in the first half, but 
broke the game wide open in the middle of 
the second half with three quick goals.
In Fridays game at Chatham, both teams 
played a tough first half. CMU right inner 
forward Sarah Fay scored the only goal of
the half. But things didnt work out so well 
in the second half. The team just ran out 
of steam, explained sophomore link Donna
Dee Nyzio. Chatham didnt tire as much, 
and staged a two goal comeback to capture 
the 2-1 victory.
Although the regular season is over, and 
the teams 3-5 record doesnt really indicate 
its quality play, six or seven members of the 
team hope to try out for the NCAA Mideast 
Regionals.
Our nursing and health services have covered a lot of ground since we 
started 100 years ago. We began by caring for the wounded on the 
battlefield. Later, we called on the ill at home. Then, as we trained and 
recruited more nurses, we began to develop programs to teach people 
how to help themselves and their families.
Today, we give instruction in home nursing, disease prevention, 
parenting, child care, nutrition, managing stress, preparation for 
disaster, health maintenanceall of this in addition to providing ser
vices to the community on an as-needed basis.
But were not saying this to pat ourselves on the back. We just want 
you to know that if you need help, were ready.
Red Cross: Ready for a new century.
INSIDE TEKTRON
JOURNEY INTO THE FUTURE
iektronix develops manufactures, sells and 
iervices a broad line of electronic 
ri^asurement. display and control 
nstruments and systems that are used 
worldwide in science industry and 
^ucation
f you are graduating with a degree in 
Electrical Engineering or Computer Science 
ve mvite you to the following
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
OCTOBER 18 - 19, 1984_________ 
If you are unable to meet with us. please 
contact Tektronix, Inc . Corporate College 
Relations. Y6-044 PO Box 500 Beaverton 
OR 97077
We are an equal opportunity employer m/f/h
Tektronix
A Public Service of This Newspaper & The Advertising Council
I#CHEMISTRY 
MAJORS
If you're working on a Master's Degree in Clinical 
Chemistry or related Master's Degree with emphasis 
in Clinical Chemistry, you'll wnat to be part of to
day's Air Force.
Today's Air Force is where tomorrow's technology 
is happening now. You'll have an opportunity for 
a challenging and rewarding career as an Air Force 
officer and outstanding opportunities for profes
sional development.
Excellent pay/benefits, regular working hours and 
30 days of vacation with pay each year. For further 
details contact: Captain Alley at 644-2707.
mournsA great way of life.
COUNSELING AND 
STUDENT DEVELOPMENT CENTER*
Presents WORKSHOPS
MANAGING STRESS: How to cope with
academic and personal pressures. 4 
sessions (Tuesdays) starting Oct. 30, 
4:305:30.
FAMILIES IN TRANSITION: For students whose 
parents are separated, divorced and/or 
remarried. 3 sessions (Thursdays)
Starting Nov. 1, 4:305:30.
EATING DISORDERS GROUP: For persons strug
gling with eating problems such as 
starvation, binging, purging. 4 sessions 
(Mondays) starting Oct. 29,4:305:30.
For information and registration: call ext.
2922 or sign up at E Touuer, M.G. Suite 103.
* Division of Student.

---------------------------------------------------

oe FreshmanBy Mark Levine
J KNOX tlM 100 Mm.
'----------PXALU SCKWEOf &f. up ni ust
^Xi/V CiRArtlCS QUIZ
/ '{EAR,/ i 3usr
i BlANkfD 
ON M 
ACCOUNtlN 
\itST
oindexterBy Maszle and Beyer
|vlOW Stockw CpM^THlNiG 
THE" S^'Oj? elsaa t>wr 
I TW/^IC OF /
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
Free \ Painters Cap!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED!
^ YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Get a free painter's cap 
with any pizza purchase at 
participating Dominos 
Pizza locations. Just ask 
when you place your order. 
Offer Expires: 10/21/84
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students 8- CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS 
that could become available for September, 
October and November occupancy.
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
Our drivers carry less 
than $2000.Limited delivery area.
We are open for your viewing seven days 
a week. PLEASE call H. M. Harrity for 
YOUR appointment, anytime. DIAL 
621-4030. We'll see YOU at "THE 
FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
C1<HU Oomi'ii)!, Pm. Inc

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.______________________
Alumni remember Tartans as football power
Picture this scene. The Notre Dame Fighting 
Irish Division I football team has not lost at 
home in twenty-three years. They have been 
the absolute power of college football.
A team from Pittsburgh breaks this string.
Everyone's thinking Pitt, I'm sure. Pitt is the 
only Division I powder in Pittsburgh. It wasnt 
always that way though.
This week marked Homecoming for CMU, 
welcoming back the 1939 Carnegie Tech foot
ball team that lost just one game and lost to 
Texas Christian University in the Sugar Bowl 
in New Orleans, Louisiana. There was no ma
jor publicity as there was last year, no Hill 
Street Blues cast members, no pre-game 
speeches by the mayor of Pittsburgh.
There was a very good football team play
ing in Pittsburgh Saturday, the CamegieMellon Tartans. Tartan football is heaped with 
tradition. It was the Skibos of Carnegie Tech 
who went to South Bend, Indiana and defeated 
that Notre Dame team 27-7. The leader then 
was was named Harpster, the stars were RosenzwTeig, Karcis, and Letzelter.
In 1938, the Tartans lost their only regular 
season game to Notre Dame, 7-0, in a game 
that may have been decided by the referees, 
according to reporters of the event. Tech won
the Lambert Cup, which goes to the best team 
in the East. TCU defeated Carnegie 15-7, led 
by All-American quarterback Davey OBrien.
Techs stars then included Merlyn Condit and 
George Muha. Today, the Tartans have no stars; 
leaders yes, but no stars. This is the system of 
Head Coach Chuck Klausing, and the team 
wins, so no one complains. But this is a good 
team, perhaps a great team, and has been for 
five years.
In 1938, 1800 people cheered the Tartans on 
the Tech campus. That doesnt seem like a lot, 
the attendance is about that, maybe a little 
more these days. But the 1800 that cheered in 
1938, the celebration was a spontaneous rally 
after Tech defeated Pitt 20-10 in a year when 
Pitt was predicted by some to be National 
Champions.
This year, a decent crowd showed up for 
Homecoming, mostly alumni. The Tartans 
defeated Grove City College 35-17. It was not 
a particularly dominating victory, but the Tar
tans did what they had to.
Saturday meant the final home game of the 
season, the final home game for 15 seniors that 
have a CMU. record of 27-6-1 in four years. No 
fanfare, no announcements of all the 
graduating players as others schools do. There
football careers have ended at CMU; there are 
three road games that will determine whether 
the Tartans will go to the Division III playoffs 
but these players will no longer play on Tech 
Field.
There will be no Heisman Trophy winnersat CMU, no Sugar Bowl appearances, no nationwide radio coverage of our pep rally as in 
1938. Our own President doesnt show up at 
the pep rally anymore, then again the coach 
wasnt there either.
There might be a Stagg bowl though, with 
the Division III championship. CMU doesnt 
get loads of money from football, like Pitt and 
Notre Dame and Penn State. These athleti 
play because they like to. Few, if any, have! 
aspirations about the pros. These are true! 
athletes, who play the game as it should bej 
played. No they are not as big as other teams! 
maybe not as fast. But they play, and they playj 
well, in the name of CMU.
So if this team makes it to the playoffs, am 
the game is played at home, come out and sup! 
port your team, because the feeling of havinj 
people cheer you on is like no other feeling i 
the world. Show that CMU students arent 
bunch of computer terminals in human bodies! 
show some spirit in your school.
Reagan takes responsibility but does nothing
By Stuart Shapiro months or so (four, if count Kuwait). outrage was a virtual certainty. the history of our relations with Latii
As Ive previously noted, Americans seem Two should never have happened. They In part, this was a result of the fact  exAmerican countries),
obsessed with the issue of presidential leaderwould not have happened had we imposed in recent articles and books  that Human rights, of course, are relegated tq
ship. So be it. If leadership is what people plemented appropriate security precautions Reagan remained ignorant of the most basic the nether region of quiet diplomacy in
demand, a brief look at American foreign after the first attack. aspects of Soviet and American nuclear force Reagan foreign policy. This in spite of tl
policy under Reagan clearly The Marines failed to, and the investigastructures until almost midway through his assertions of officials and activists in centi 
shows theyre not getting it. tion of that tragedy determined there was term. Once this deficiency was corrected, it America that Jimmy Carters emphasis oi
Lets start with everybodys negligence. The President, being the man fell to such patriots as Assistant Secretary of human rights did reduce human right
favorite horror story  he is, took responsibility. Swell. But he didnt Defense Richard Perle to block progress in abuses without driving countries into tl
Lebanon. We have now endured three bother insisting those who were negligent be every way possible from within the Soviet sphere,
serious attacks within the last eighteen appropriately disciplined. Nor did he inadministration. Mr. Reagan makes pretty speeches aboi
sist on the installation of appropriate securiIn addition, the Reagan administration human rights, but has declined to provii
Eaua! Timr* ty in the American embassy annex before has repeatedly relied on the highly debatable any leadership. He fails to understand tha
^^ principal embassy operations were transfernotion that verification is prima facie imdemocracy and human rights are
f__ j red there He declined to take seriously, possible as an excuse for its refusal to engage seperable and that ultimately only they c<i-erraro acts as assuming he was even aware of it, warnings in serious negotiations on nuclear weapons, ensure stable, reliable allies.
of an impending attack on the annex. anti-satellite weapons, and a comprehensive Finally, while he has pushed for a revii
hlimri In the wake of the disaster that followed, nuclear test ban. This hardly supports ed national defense, Reagan 1
Reagan once again manfully took responclaims of leadership. Quite the opposite. demonstrated no desire to impose any
By Lesley Brunker sibility. He lamented the lack of security (Im In its attitude toward other governments, tional strategy or guidance on it. As a
Pittsburgh is beautiful on a fall morning, sure it comforted home remodelers particularly in Central America, the Reagan continued on p
I dont mean late morning, after the sun everywhere to know even the President has administration also has little to show in the IHPS} HHHi
has efficiently eliminated the grounds frosproblems with such things). He lamented way of professed leadership. This may stem I
ty veil. I mean early morning, before the the lack of warning even though we had one. at least in part, from Reagans confused B B
a.m. rush hour, when dawn is a No one was held accountable. definition of democracy. Editor-in-Chief............................Ric Medrc
pink hint in the east and most This constitutes leadership? Reagan When the Vice President proclaims the Managing Editor......................Mark Lfl
people have yet to hit their quickly and deservedly received bipartisan glories of democracy under Phillipine dieBusiness Manager.... Neil Greenbli
snooze button the first time. condemnation for his lack of leadership tator Ferdinand Marcos, its hard to undersNews Editor..........Christopher D. Lev
One of my favorite runs is up the Forbes When William Safire and George Will, tand why such an opposite attitude prevails Features Editor...........Neal W. John!
Avenue hill and around Schenly Park. As I hardly flaming liberals, join the attack, one toward the Sandinista regime. Extremely opEntertainment Editor... Lesley Brurf1
crest the hill, right about in front of the is left with the conclusion there is more than posite. So extreme Reagan thinks nothing of Sports Editor..................................Don Egi
golfcourse clubhouse driveway, I gain a partisan politics involved. waging an undeclared war against Photography Editor.............Mike Pile'
magnificent panorama of the valley of Add to this fiasco that US Marines were Nicaragua. At least in El Salvador were Production Manager. Michele Reif
Pittsburgh. left in Lebanon long after it became apsupporting a more or less freely elected Ad Manager................................Steve Vc
When the fog is light (not like the recent parent whatever constructive purpose they government (a novel situation considering Typesetting Manager..........JiM ^
pea soup mess), the tops or middles of were serving had vanished. One is left to Art Director.............Michael A. Sui
downtown skyscrapers are obscured, seemwonder at leadership that, instead of stan* Assoc. Business Mgr. ...Bonnie
ing to float distantly above the valley. Even ding tall, produces sitting ducks. The PresiV/pilllOll OxXCV Asst. News Editor......................Karen
when the skies are clear, the far-off urban dent can take responsibility, but hes not the . .... , . Asst. Features Editor... Arthur, , j . i r uEditorials appear at the beginning of the opinion m Acenter looks more like a myth than a one who pays dearly as a result of his xclion>mdmlheollicialopinionollheTlu. Asst. Ent. Editor............................Adam
metropolis. irresponsibility. \an Editorial Board. AsstSports Editor.......................SCOn
I dont know when USA Today s drivets fill As for Reagans leadership in arch for ^ ^ mdwtdual authors Asst. Production Mgr. . KatnnJ
the vendors: they are certainly on the road arms control, one again is left with a defim^ are usually (m Tartan stafft but the Contributing Editor.............Pauline
before I am. No matter which route I run, tion of leadership bearing title relationship 0ptm0m aTe not necessarily those o/The Tartan Editorial Assistant....................Mohan
I pass one of those white machines and see to that found in most dictionaries. Reagan Editorial Board. Production Staff: Bob Aarhus,
the familiar blue-bordered pager staring entered office with a proud record of opposi(o ^ Qre ()f)inions of individual Hatchl' Dana Hausman, Evan McDO'
freshly at me. The lead headline, unfailingly ' tion to each and every arms control treaty authors who are usually members of the UnwerJay West. ^ Editof^
sensationalistic, is a seedling of thought I ever negotiated. His performance in office Slty commUnity. A letter intended for publication
may choose to nurse as I go. has been faithful to that record. His admust be signed and include the writers address Unfu for publication. Editorial OfficeS.
On this particular Friday morning (12 ministration has prided itself on producing and phone number for verification. Names will 5Q( (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo5 
Oct), the thick fog affording me no view of proposals so heavily weighted in favor of the be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 57^2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113 ^
continued on page 23 United States that Soviet rejection and the right to condense or reject any letter. dress: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh
4loi: 
ms 
iro
ich

---------------------------------------------------

October 16, 1984The TartanPage 21
Letters:Club brings back tradition
Editor:
The Sophomore Class Club sponsored 
Earthball 84 last Friday on the CFA lawn 
during Homecoming.
This event marked the beginning of many 
events the Sophomore Class Club is plann
ing. The purpose of the club is to promote 
unity among classmates.
Earthball 84 was a way to bring people 
together, not only sophomores but the en
tire campus. Earthball served this purpose 
back in 1951 when it was first played on cam
pus and was an immediate success. Until this 
year, Earthball had become a forgotten cam
pus tradition.
The Sophomore Class Club felt it was time 
to bring this tradition back to CamegieMellon! If you know a forgotten tradition on 
campus or perhaps would like to start a 
tradition of your own, why dont you join the 
the Sophomore Class Club? The Club is 
relatively small. Members at present are: 
Diana Bianco, Jackie Granger, Amanda Mujica and Eric Rocher. If youre interested in 
joining the Club please contact one of the 
members or Ed Lilley in Student Affairs. 
Why not make the Sophomore Class Club 
a tradition at Camegie-Mellon?
Members of the Sophomore Class Club
Abortion to be discussed
\residential Committee 
o study CMU monopolies
Editor:
After the first round of Presidential 
debates, it should be clear to even the most 
casual observer that abortion has become a 
key issue in the 1984 elections. Concern for 
this delicate issue is not limited to just 
Democrats and Republicans.
On Thurday, October 18, in room 104 of 
David Lawrence Hall at the University of 
Pittsburgh at 8:00 p.m., Dan MulHolland, 
Libertarian candidate for the U.S. Congress, 
will be speaking on The Politics of Abor
tion in 1984. His talk will be preceded by 
a showing of the documentary, A MATTER
OF CHOICE, at 7:30 p.m.
As a defense lawyer specializing in health 
care law, MulHolland is especially wellqualified to discuss the legal ramifications 
of the different abortion control proposals. 
He will also field questions concerning the 
stands of candidates from all parties on this 
issue.
I would like to invite the staff of The Tar
tan and the students and faculty of CMU to 
attend what promises to be a very interesting 
and enjoyable presentation.
Rebecca Marshall
ibi'
i&
in:
rum
E9!
ile'
isii
Vi
lie#
i
e Tfl( 
in 
C
i 
It
We
ie
,6
is,
Dofl
or*
ice*'*o52-1
By Bill McCormick
Are uncontrolled monopolies beneficial to 
onsumers? If you are unsure about the 
nswer to this question, ask your economics 
rofessor. Do you think monopolies exist at 
such a progressive institution as 
CMU? I do. In fact, Ill bet you 
will deal with at least one today. 
If you patronize the bookstore, 
od service, housing, parking, entropy, the 
J>-op, vending, the caber club, campus 
eaners, or the art store (did I miss any?), 
win the bet.
Although all the entities listed above 
rve the campus community, they operate 
a protected market, with little competin from the outside world. Because of their 
ptive market, and because there is no 
nsumer board to control prices, I believe 
at these services each constitute an unconlled monopoly.
Therefore, the environment is not con||icive for services to act in our best interest, 
nt get me wrong. Im not saying CMU 
ces operate inefficiently or ruthlessly, 
ever, I am saying the environment in 
ich they operate makes it easier to pass 
price increases than to hold down costs. 
] am in the process of forming a Presiden1 Committee to study CMU services. My 
Is for this committee are as follows:
To determine the channels through 
ich CMU services are managed.
To determine if and how money is 
nsferred between CMU services and the
night). If you are interested but cant attend, 
put a note in my mailbox at the Skibo in
formation desk with your name, address, 
and phone number. I will be in the Senate 
office from 3 to 5 today to answer any ques
tions you may have.
If you want change, you must put forth 
effort.
Bill McCormick is president of student 
government and writes a column for The 
Tartan.
Teacher comments on CMU
Editor:
The folowing selected instances might 
serve as material for postscript to someones 
sorry State of the University address: receiv
ed on, appearing at 3:33, to the CMU Post 
Office area devoid of customers, Sorry, we 
take no UPS packages after 3:30 how about 
Parcel Post?  and so much for the $1 
handling fee; also received as a tide of 
students leaving Hunt basement by the lecture room outside steps tempted me with 
hope of more direct access to unload a video 
camera, VCR and tripod lugged up Frew 
from luckily found parking by the bridge, 
Sorry from the Audio-Visual attendant as 
she locks the hall door. Shucks, one im
possibly quicker step and my foot would have 
been in it.
Joann Maier 
Associate Professor, Art Department
The Libertarian AlternativeObjectivism runs counter to diversity
of theuniversity.
PA
To compare CMU services and similar 
vices that exist in the outside world.
To analyze the operation of each CMU 
rice and provide suggestions for
Movement.
To invent a way for consumers to have 
it into the management of CMU services 
to help the administration implement it.
 To inform the campus community of
findings.
order to accomplish these goals, this 
jnittee needs your help. There is a lot 
 accomplished, and there is plenty of 
3rtunity for you to be involved. If this 
imittee sounds interesting to you, attend 
meeting Wednesday, October 17, at
50 pm in Skibo 112 (Thats tomorrow
By Dan Tobias
In the last issue of The Tartan, Dave 
Moskowitz made sot .e comments regarding 
my column, and how it differs from his 
philosophy. I feel I must reply to some of his 
points.
I have no basic opposition to 
the philosophy of Ayn Rand. 
Works such as Atlas Shrugged 
played a major part in getting 
me interested in Libertarianism. However, 
my beliefs do not quite fit into the mold of 
Objectivism.
During her lifetime, Rand was know to ex
pel her followers for the slightest infrac
tions against this rigid belief structure. 
Nathaniel Branden is the most famous ex
ample. He was once her most staunch 
follower, but later got into her bad graces 
and was complet > excommunicated from 
the ranks of Objectivism.
Moskowitz is correct that Objectivism en
compasses many subjects, and its followers 
claim to have objective opinions on art, ar
chitecture, religion, and other subjects, 
while Libertarianism is much more limited 
in scope.
A Libertarian believes that people should 
be free to engage in any peaceful, noncoercive lifestyle they wish. There is no such 
thing as the Libertarian opinion on which 
religion (if any) is correct, or what kind of 
music is good. There is only the understan
ding that each person is free to make his or 
her own decisions on these subjects.
A healthy society will have diversity of opi
nion and lifestyle. Libertarians welcome this, 
while Objectivists would apparently prefer 
a society where everybody recognized the 
true, objective standard of morality and 
aesthetics.
In keeping with this principle of diversi
ty, Libertarians themselves are a diverse lot. 
Some are devout Christians or Jews; others 
are Agnostics or Atheists. Some enjoy 
Beethoven; others prefer Cyndi Lauper.
Despite their many differences, they are 
still able to work together for the common 
goal of individual liberty, and they see no 
need to make others see things their way in 
matters of aesthetic or religious preference.
While I have my own opinions on such 
subjects, I see no purpose in discussing them 
in my column, which is expressly devoted to 
the discussion of Libertarian ideas. Debates 
on matters of aesthetics or religion under the 
banner of The Libertarian Alternative 
would only distract attention from the ma
jor Libertarian points I am trying to make, 
and promote divisivenes and bickering 
among people who have no essential 
disagreement with principles of individual 
liberty.
However, it is also wrong to state that 
Libertarianism is entirely political in nature. 
Libertarians are opposed to any person or 
group who initiates force against another.
But most Libertarians see government as 
the primary institution in the world today 
which engages in the initiation of force, so 
most of their efforts are channeled into
fighting government oppression. We are just 
as opposed to private murders, rapists and 
burglars. But, since the general public is 
basically in agreement that murder, rape 
and burglary are immoral, I see no need to 
comment on these subjects.
Finally, I wish to comment on the implica
tion that I must hate the US government, 
since I say so many nasty things about it, 
while ignoring the rest of the world.
While it is true I have criticized our 
government in my column, this does not 
mean I am not aware of, and revolted at, the 
many atrocities committed by other govern
ments. From the Berlin Wall to South 
African apartheid, regimes of both right and 
left have committed acts of which I, and all 
others committed to individual liberty, 
disapprove.
Furthermore, unlike some conservatives, 
my disapproval is not conditioned on 
whether the government committing these 
acts is an enemy of the US. I also condemn 
actions perpetrated by such allies'' as El 
Salvador, and Iran under the Shah.
However, there is little we in the United 
States can do directly about these foreign 
problems. Libertarianism precludes the 
global interventionism which makes the 
United States into the world's policeman. 
Thus, the primary responsibility to throw off 
the shackles of oppressive foreign govern
ments belongs to the citizens of these 
countries.
continued on p*g 22

---------------------------------------------------

sfSPI
Page 22The TartanOctober 16, 1984

.
-  V:
Amount of craziness in US society discussed
By Gene Lee
A recent headline in USA Today read 
. . One in Five Has Mental Ills.
At first I was disheartened (almost to the 
point of severe depression), but after some 
thought, I realized this is pro
bably true. Lets look at some
p examples:
It has been estimated that 
almost 35 percent of Americans strongly 
associate themselves with one of the two ma
jor political parties. Now, the Democrats call 
the G.O.P. crazy, and the Republicans label 
the dems paranoid . Thirty-five percent is 
obviously greater than one out of five, but 
thats assuming all Democrats and 
Republicans have mental problems. Lets 
look further.
Young people enjoy modern music 
because they can relate to it, or so they say. 
If this is the case, what do such songs as 
Shes a Maniac, Lets Go Crazy, and Mental Health indicate? Do todays youths really
associate with Madness? Are we all dazed 
and confused?
Listening to conversations on campus 
gives a good idea of how bad things are. For 
example:
Lets eat at Kiltie.
Youre crazy! 
or
John spilled beer on your jacket? What 
a moron!
Even television commercials are entering 
the realm of madness. The other day I say 
a local car dealership ad that went sort of 
like this:
No one, nobody, nothing outsells GL 
Auto! Were slashing 70 percent off all our 
1984 models. We must be insane! Were 
paranoid of the competition. Thats why 
with every purchase, you get a free car. Were 
crazy! Get me a straightjacket! Im bounc
ing off the walls! And you will too when you 
come on down to GL Auto ...
Were all falling victim to this pervasive
phenomenon. Every aspect of our lives is 
somehow associated with madness. Tiger 
Mania and Cub Fever, nuclear mass hysteria, 
phobias of every shape and size, and even 
hallucinatory drugs are all common ex
amples. Shakespeare too noted the general 
craziness of the world. (I was going to insert 
a famous quote here, but I couldnt find one.
I must have amnesia)j.
What can be concluded from this? If one 
out of five are crazy, where does that leave 
the other four fifths? I dont know, Im not 
one of them.
Gene Lee is a freshman and is a columnist 
for The Tartan.
Rand's objectivism too rigid; 
libertarians promote diversity
continued from page 21
The best way we can help them is to set 
a moral example by exhibiting a firm, un
wavering commitment to individual liberty 
at home. The bolder the contrast between 
the free world and less free countries, the 
more the incentive the citizens of the less free 
countries have to revolt against their 
governments.
Thus, my frequent criticisms of the I 
United States is not because I feel it worse I 
than any other government in the world. On I 
the contrary, I agree with David Moskowitz f 
that it is a great champion if liberty com-1 
pared to practically any other government. | 
However, it is for precisely this reason il 
wish to iron out the few bugs which preventfj 
it from being a fully consistent preserver of! 
liberty. To me, patriotism means wanting to] 
have a government that I can truly and ful Lg 
ly be proud of; not just proud of some of itsil 
aspects while carefully ignoring its faults. B 
The fact that CMU is one of the finest, 
universities in the country doesnt mean its ff 
students should not criticize actions of its ad 
ministration. Such criticism does not mean 
students think this is a bad university, onljBt 
they wish to make it better. Similar! 
American citizens who criticize some actio: 
of our goverment are not being anti( 
American. They only wish to make tl 
country a better place to live.
If Moskowitz agrees with most of the view 
I have expressed in my column, I feel hi|l 
would be acting in a counterproductin 
manner if he votes Republican. Ti 
Republican Party has done little to stop tfafl 
growth of big government in this countrjB 
and has instituted many additional inva i 
sions, as I have detailed in past columi 
The Libertarian Party is the only politicar 
party fully committed to expansion of in 
dividual liberty in all areas.
ui
Dan Tobias is a junior in applied mathaiila 
writes The Libertarian Alternative for TlHio 
Tartan. B'h
Reagan's 
overtures 
worthless
continued from page 20
we have enjoyed small improvements in 
military capabilities at truly astronoi 
cost. If many liberals have learned
social problems are not solved simply llt( Ia Ithrowing money at them, Reagan does* 
yet realize the same holds true for '
As a reslult, we have coffee pots
ped to survive a nuclear exchange and J
nuclear missiles to be placed in 01P
vulnerable silos. Weapons systems that AI
work in battle and coffee makers that
suggest somewhat skewed priorities. Kej
has not seen fit to demand a cohe1^
strategy or cost and quality control. So
for leadership.
In final analysis Mondale can look
on some significant foreign P
achievements during the Carter Adm11
tion  the Camp David peace acc(
human rights improvements, the rele
hostages in Iran unharmed. He hasp1
ed reasonable policies for the u
Reagan, on the other hand, has utterly
<ed to implement and control a
foreign policy.
hn
I lai
In1!
tm
t>ai
an
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student 
plied history and is a columnist Jfj 
Tartan.
tl 
d, 
n< 
uc 
r
ers 
I von
I loti
rn
ig*
ale.
II Br 
Eq
For more information, write to 
Manager, College Recruiting at the
appropriate address below or call 
COLLECT or TOLL FREE Youll 
discover that the career you've 
imagined is the one that exists at 
SPS
Creating the technology of tomorrow 
takes more than knowledge alone. It 
takes an inventive spirit. A probing 
mind And the ability to transform 
imagination into reality.
The individuals who possess these 
qualities aren't satisfied with an 
ordinary career. They're seeking 
immediate challenge and the 
professional rewards only an 
innovative company can offer A 
compan> like Motorola's Semi 
conductor Products Sector (SPSl  
the international leader in the 
research, development and manu 
facture of microelectronic compo
nents and systems.
Located in both Phoenix. Arizona 
and Austin. Texas. SPS operates the 
largest, most sophisticated semi 
conductor facilities in the world. 
Where we produce over 75.000 
different semiconductor devices, 
considered to be the finest quality 
products of their kind. Our repu
tation for excellence extends into 
discrete and bipolar circuit tech
nology. MOS and related logic 
families, memory products. VLSI and 
high performance microprocessors 
and systems.
Arizona Opportunities
1140 S. Priest Dr..
Tempe. Arizona 85281 
(602) 994-6219. COLLECTIn addition to technical leadership, 
we offer beginning engineers an 
important choice: direct job place 
ment or our Rotational Program 
which exposes you to several 
functions within SPS. Currently, 
engineering and other professional 
opportunities exist for the following 
individuals:
Electrical Engineers 
Mechanical Engineers 
Physicists
Computer Scientists 
Software Development Engineers 
Chemical Engineers 
Chemists
Materials Scientists 
Finance, Marketing and Materiels 
Specialists
Texas Opportunities
1112 W. Ben White Blvd.. Ste. 200 
Austin. Texas 78704.
18001 531-5183. TOLL FREE 
(512)928-6179
MOTOROLA INC,
Semiconductor Products Sector
An Equal Opportunity/ 
Affirmative Action Employer

---------------------------------------------------

October 16, 1984The TartanPage 23
obias' libertarian philosophy lacks common sense
all
| Editor:
Dan Tobias never ceases to amaze me with 
ijdiocy. Please cant you be serious about 
[legalizing drugs? Why do you think we made 
Ithem illegal in the first place? To inhibit your 
[freedom and infringe upon your rights? No, 
lits to protect you, even if youre too stupid 
realize the dangers to society and yes, even 
yourself.
If someone suffers from severe 
Schizophrenia and is a danger to himself and
society (you too, Dan) we have no choice but 
to isolate that person from others.
If on the other hand, there is an inlividual under the influence of a powerful 
md lethal drug and this situation can be 
Corrected, we should do everything in our 
jower to do so. You see Dan, the addict is 
io longer in control of himself and literally 
all not have the power to stop himself from 
laiming or even killing his fellow man.
I have heard the argument if you legalizeerraro just ts boring as
ad-Hopponent Bush
irlyj
iomBntinued from page 20
mtiBe ripening fall foliage and no more pressthflg; thoughts in my cranium, I mull over the 
adline, Round 2: NO KNOCKOUT I 
kindly translated this to, Vice Presiden1 candidates debate boring. 
ctnHI was annoyed, truly insulted, when 
ThBklter Mondale submitted to the pressures 
P th feminist leaders and lept on an obvious 
intrwiicle  a woman running mate. 
invaBralaine Ferraro was not and is not the best 
imnsnocrat to serve as vice president, and 
liticaBryone knows it.
of iisTonetheless, her campaign is a step ford for women in politics. Unless Mondale 
med he had no chance of winning (an 
i/ifluBa not completely out of the question) his 
or Tt osing Ferraro can hardly be considered 
holly tokenistic gesture. Why subject a 
e token to the harsh spotlights of the 
n political arena, or to the same jourstic microscope focused on male 
didates?
jerraros campaign also represents the first 
the electorate has seen a major potenpolicy maker with a womans view on 
eris topics such as abortion, divorce 
ts and pay equity rather than the traditsino^B^ men-only perspective.
non^M01 surprisingly, her opinions are not 
^ed tbBcalIY different from those of her male 
itipl) BllterPartsAnd why should they be? She 
does'1^Ba^en responsibility of running for public 
defeo^Be because she, like all politicians, is conits ec;W!! about public welfare, not about makanSrY feminist statement against by 
in male-make policies. f
thatd1^ 1^80, six million more women than 
rs thaurned out to vote. With the democratic 
s. focusing on gaining the womens
registering women voters, the gap 
I So be larger this time around.
1 wmen and Geraldine Ferraro are 
look tbere is more to the female elecrn p^tben female issues. Women are conWub and knowledgeable of nuclear 
e and international policies as well
e rel4ffUcatin and social programs. The 
haspr(^*r &aP exists only insofar as cam^uI^*ers exPlit it: women are just people,he
drugs, the addict will not steal from others 
because the prices will be significantly 
cheaper. This is only true, however, until the 
addict loses his job and exhausts his finan
cial resources. Only this time it will take him 
a little bit longer to find out how terrible 
these drugs are, and the problem will have 
escalated beyond anyones control.
Further; it will encourage younger peo
ple to experiment because of the availabili
ty and price of the poison. And dont say 
education is the answerpeople know the 
effects of drugs.
A little note for you: look at the devasta
tion, despair and poverty cursed by these un
controlled lethal substances in those nations 
and see the dependence (thats right, to 
much personal freedom) on a chemical 
substance. Were talking about wasted lives 
and impoverished nations all for the sake of 
personal freedom to destroy ones own body, 
entire families, and on the larger scale, an
entire nation.
Now a word about your libertarian 
philosophy as a whole. You people are so 
selfish youre going to eventually hurt 
yourselves. Is the me generation for real? 
The apathy of the ever-growing libertarian 
party seems to indicate it is. Do you 
remember how World War II started? And 
what do you propose happens to the 
unemployed and handicapped? You dont 
want to waste your precious money on them, 
do you? Well my only response to you, Dan, 
and to anyone else who thinks the same way 
for that matter, is Im not going to stop the 
drug crazed maniac who maimes you for life 
and you lose your job because of it. But I 
would really feel sorry for your children, 
because they are the ones who will be hurt 
by your apathy. (Remember the Reagan ad
ministration declaring ketchup a vegetable 
and Meese denying the existence of hunger, 
let alone starvation?) The children would be
born in such poverty that they would have 
no true freedom at all. And where there is 
hunger there is rebellion.
Just a note about your comments on labor 
unions. If you know any American history 
at all (which I seriously doubt) you can recall 
the days of the sweat shops and no minimum 
wage. Those were the days when there was 
no liberty, for you either worked for 
miniscule wages or you didnt eat. Do you 
remember the revolts and riots that ensued 
during the Carnegie era? He didnt part from 
any of his vast wealth until the latter part 
of his life, when he realized he couldnt take 
it with him.
So, Dan, if you truly have a brain, use it, 
and think ahead a bit to see what your liber
tarian platform will lead to. I can assure you 
it wont be personal liberty and freedom.
Allen Greenberg 
Freshman, MCS
19601984
VD NEVER TRUST THIS KENNEDY FELLOW IK OFFICE...HED EE TAKING ORDERS FRONV HIS CHURCH!
ID NEVER TRUST THIS FERRARO W>NAN IN OFFICE...SHE REFUSES TO TAKE ORDERS FROM HER CHURCH!
View from a Height
The chemistry  it just isn't right
utter$^H^men vters are just voters, 
r^jj^jtothing else, I thought, rounding the 
rner my run, Ferraro proved this 
'ght by being just as boring as
list drunker is Entertainment Editor and 
qual Time for The Tartan.
By Stephen Volan
I wrote the following piece one day in my 
high school Organic Chemistry class. (Youll 
be able to tell, after reading it, 
that I was extremely bored that 
day.) It wont help you decide 
who to vote for in the next elec
tion. It wont help you with your study pro
blems either. But it might make you laugh, 
and, since I could use a good laugh right 
about now, you could, too.
The Chemistry's Just Not Right
 story in the spirit of Snoopy
IT WAS a dark and stormy night. The 
downpour outside all but drowned the nearhysterical voices of the people inside.
What?? If dats true, alkyl him!! Halide 
to me!!
NO! Please! Dont go--you dont know 
what youre doingl WAIT!!! cried Ester. 
Youve been drinking too much alcohol!!! 
Benz Aldehyde shoved her away harshly, 
throwing her to the floor. Ged away from 
mel Im goin and dats DAT! The screen 
door crashed shut behind him.
Just then, Ethyl Chloro Benzene, Esters 
older sister, entered the room. Ester ran to 
her. Please, Ethyl!! Stop Benny - he doesnt 
know what hes doing! Wont you PLEASE 
stop him?
Ethyl considered it. Amide... she said, 
but...hey, cis, stop pawing at me, will ya? 
Ester began to break down. Cis, cant you 
see how Im sulfuring? Amine, I cant even
reason with him anymore, ooohhhhh!... At
this she burst into tears.
Ethyl reacted violently, giving off heat. 
Alkane, alkane, already! Ive about had it
up to my acetone with you! Sometimes you 
can just be a real pro pane, ya know that, 
Ester?
Suddenly, they heard the squealing of tires 
on asphalt, and then a loud crunching 
sound, as if a tree had crashed sidelong in
to a car at high speed. Seconds later, the 
front door burst open, and in stormed Benz, 
lipid with rage. The steering wheel hasnt 
been fixed yet!! Ester, when I get my hands 
on you, oil...!
He advanced menacingly. Ester scream
ed. Ethyl, reacting spontaneously, moved 
quickly in front of Ester, at the same time 
covertly picking up the now-empty bottle of 
whiskey Benz had left behind. Dont worry, 
Ester, allyl do is yell a lot. Oil protect you, 
she whispered.
ALL RIGHT, ya big lummox! she yell
ed, turning to Benz. Furan-y kind of a man, 
youll go right back out that door. Ive seen 
you do alkynes of mean and downright nas
ty things to my sister, and shes remained 
faithful to you through thick and thin. And 
NOW.. .NOW you TOP it all off by messing 
up the butylful Grignard that Ester has 
worked so hard to maintain. Look  she 
esterified of you! Anisole your fault! What 
do you have to say for yourself? WELL??!?
Ged outta my way or youll get da same 
ting Im gonna give Esterl h$ roared, ad
vancing even more threateningly. Dis aint 
none of your bizness. Stop playin the heroin 
an lemme at er!
You know, enzyme youll realize that ura-cilly, boron, no-good, overreactive, debas
ed creature. Acetal there is to it, and theres 
no reason why Ester shouldnt dissociate
herself from you right now, ether!
DI, ETHYL!!! he bellowed, purple with 
rage, as he lunged at the two women. But 
before anyone knew it, Ethyl brought the 
bottle she had been concealing squarely 
down upon Bennys head! He crumpled to 
the floor, unconscious.
Ester cyanide heavily, collapsing into a 
chair. Ion-estly dont know what I would 
have done without you, cis. It seems like 
Iodide and went to Heaven.
Ive vinylly done it, havent I? Ethyl mus
ed. And the irony of it too -- he was struck 
down by the bottle in the end, after all. 
No, Ethyl, you struck him on his temple, 
not his end.
Ethyl buried her face in her hand. Well, 
she said vinylly, youre not out of the woods 
yet, you know. Youve got to get away from 
here, from this house -- and heme -- and take 
the twins with you.
But where can I take Poly and Fluora 
where theyll be safe? We cant go to Mothers 
house -- thatll be the first place hell look 
for us. In fact, well have to -call and warn 
her, too...
Ester, I think youre still suftering frocn 
shock. Well just call the police and bring 
charges," she replied, picking up the phone, 
while we find you a place to stay. Say, Ive 
got a good friend in Fluorida -- Ive told you 
about her, havent I? You remember Arene 
Oxide? In fact. Ill call her right after I call 
the police. I wonder what the nitrate is to 
Saratoga?"
Oh, Ethyl, youre making such a 
phosphorus. Youre so good to me, she smil
ed happily. THE END

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
CLASSIFIEDS
The Ready Resume is now available! Call 
(412)824-6800 for free quote. Monroeville 
Secretarial Service, located on William Penn 
Highway, has evening appointments available. 
10% discount with valid CMU ID
Help wanted: Campus rep to run spring break 
vacation trip to Daytona Beach. Earn free trip 
and money. Send resume to College Travel 
Unlimited, PO Box 6063 Station A, Daytona 
Beach, FL 32022, include phone number please.
Research papers! 306-page catalog  15,278 
topics! Rush $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho,
#206M, Los Angeles, 90025 (213)477-8226.
The Dissertation Doctor is now available! Call 
(412)824-6800 for free quote. Monroeville 
Secretarial Service, located on William Penn 
Highway, has evening appointments available. 
10% discount with valid CMU ID.
Lose weight. Stay healthy. Lose 10-29 lbs. per 
month or your money back. No exceptions! Get 
serious. Free delivery, call Herbalife Distributors; 
Mary, 828-3266; Barb 776-4252.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the 
US government? Get the facts today! Call
1-312-742-1142. Ext. 3401-A.
Mailing Labels with names and addresses of 
companies that hire scientists and engineers. 600 
labels for $20.00. Motto Labels with your Mot
to on them. Semper Ubi Sub Ubi. 100 labels with 
your motto $8.00. Chicago Computer Products, 
PO Box 7994, Pittsburgh, PA 15216.
The Tartan needs typesetters. We pay all 
workstudy students $3.50 to start. No experience 
necessary. Call 578-2111 or stop by Skibo 50-52 
to apply.
Rummage sale at Church of Ascension, Ellsworth 
Avenue at Neville. Saturday, October 27, 9:00 to 
3:00. Clothing, toys, household goods, bake sale. 
$1 bag sale, last hour.
Papermart  one-stop party shopping. We
carry everything to make your party a success  
great Halloween accessories. Baum Blvd. at 
Morewood. 681-8900.
Roommate to share 2-bedroom apt. Highland 
Park, $195/mon. plus elec. 1 mon deposit re
quired. Grad stud, preferred. Ref. 521-2628 6-9 
pm.
FREE
WALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE
Beginning Monday, Oct. 8 
Every Mon., Tues., Wed., Thur.
7 pm  to pm 
COMPUTER SCIENCE WeH 5413
MODERN BIOLOGY PH126C
CALCULUS PH225B
H&SS MATH PH226B
CHEMISTRY PH 19A
PHYSICS PH 19C
PHILOSOPHIC METHODS PH 21
& SOCIAL VALUES
Sponsored by Student Affairs and Counseling Student 
Development Center.
Apartment, excellent location. Offers one 
bedroom, remodelled with new kitchen and bath. 
Ideal for two students to share. Only $340 per 
month, including utilities. CMU shuttlebus ser
vice at front door. 682-7010.
EXOTIC DANCERS  Entertainment for par
ties, male and female dancers. Stripper-grams. 
931-3255.
Help Wanted: delivery person. Earn up to $7.00 
per hour as a Dominos pizza delivery person. 
Apply in person, at 310 N. Craig St.
Need transportation? Drive a car anywhere in 
USA. Must be 21. References requiredCall 
828-4813.
Typing on Morewood Avenue  $1 per page, 
neat typing, new typewriter. Rush Jobs accepted.. 
Resumes composed for $6.00. Call 687-8159.
Rapid Report typing is now available! Call 
(412)824-6800 for free quote. Monroeville 
Secretarial Service, locat'd on William Penn 
Highway, has evening appointments available, 
.discount with valid CMU ID.
Oakland. Dawson St.; Very nice, spacious 4-room 
apt. Fully furnished, utilities paid, suitable for
2-3 people. 687-2642 Tim. $360 a month.
Will type term papers, resumes, etc. at
reasonable rates. Call Mary Ann at 462-5932.
Government Jobs. $16,559-$50,553/year. Now 
hiring. For directory call 805-687-6000 ext. 
R-5563.
Typing  term papers, resumes, etc. Call Kathy 
884-9341.
Female roommate/2 bedroom apt./laundry/near 
bus. 363-4787, 661-0602. Ask for Michelle.
Looking for EE student to build an electronic! 
calculator prototype for $$. If interested, CajjJ 
683-1349.
Word Processing: Manuscripts, resumes and i 
cover letters, dissertations, term papers; Exact! 
copy/editing available, 24-hour service 
621-8544/681-5416.
Are you curious? Send $1.00 along with return! 
postage and address to Box 1442.
A8cA Secretarial Service  Quality typing, l0w| 
prices, pickup and delivery available. For further^ 
information call 362-TYPE.
TektroonirxPks
Families in Transition  A workshop for| 
students whose parents are separated, divorced,! 
and/or remarried, 4 sessions, Wednesdays, 4:3f| 
pm to 5:30 pm, October 24-November 14.
Eating Disorders Group  For persons strua 
ing with eating problems such as starvation, bin 
ing, or purging, 4 sessions, Mondays, 4:30 pmt 
5:30 pm., October 29-November 19.
Sign up now for Counseling and Stude. 
Development Workshops. The followiu
workshops are offered this semester. Register i 
Morewood Gardens, E tower, Suite 103 or cal 
578-2922.
Managing Stress  Learn how to cope wiij 
academic and personal pressures, 4 session! 
tuesdays from 4:30 to 5:30 pm, Octob 
30-November 20.
Academic Bag Ladies  4515 Forbes -I 
682-6886; Thursdays 12-1 for lunch, supporj 
sharing; for women 25 + .
PREGNANT?
And you dkn't mom to W For a free pregnancy test and conwoaniiai ixHp, ceil
Birthright at621-1983
Pregnant? Call ATA
Lets talk about your option
Caring and confidential information 
counseling, pregnancy testing and 
related services.
Hotline: (412)731-2420
Pittsburgh 731-2420
Washington, PA 225-6494 
Alternatives to Abortion, Inc.
a non profit <
DE A ROAD SCHOLAR RENT FROM NATIONALGet away and get a free T-shirt.
Getting away this weekend may be easier, more fun, and less 
expensive than you think.
Thats because National rents to 18-year-olds, and gives you 
clean, sporty cars at low prices. Absolutely no mileage charge.
And now a free Road Scholar T-shirt will help make your week
end a great getaway
You can rent at any of the National locations below. All you 
need is a valid student ID and drivers license. Use a major credit 
card or submit a cash qualifying application 24 hours prior to 
rental. You pay for gas and return the car to the renting location.
T-shirt offer good while supplies last.
You deserve 
National 
attention?
Rate available 
from noon 
Thursdav to 6 pm 
Monday 
Certain daily 
ninimums 
apply Ask for 
details
\im tliu ttunluble rate 
uppbn lo this or similar size car 
und is subfecl hi ihanqe u'tthout nutter 
Spet ihf cars sub/et t hi aiiaikilMhty
Study Abroad Through Syracuse University.
Study in one of SCJ's 27 academic programs conducted in 
England, France. Italy, Spain, and other locations. Grants are 
available for a semester, a year, or a summer of study abroad.
SEND TODAY FOR OUR CATALOG!
Name __________________________________________,-------------------
Address_________________________________________-----------------
City_State.Zippo
Phone
School
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD 119 Eucfcd Avenue. Syracuse. New York 13210 (315) 423-3471
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland ) 682-1444  434 Blvd. of the Allies 261-5500
OU 578-W21CMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Judith Merrill
EditorPage 2White Water Rape at Dimple Rock
Janice Z. Woester
Design: Skip ShellyPoetry
Terri Swartz
Fiction
Susan Bossi
Pages 3,4+5Treatments
Lynne Schatz
Literary Staff
John Babich 
Pam Horne 
Steven Katz 
Michelle Keane
Design Editors
Jeffrey D. Pacione 
Joshua Mutchnick
Design: Kurt A. Valenta
Page 6autumnal equinox
David Yezzi
Design: Jennifer Taigman
Production Assistant
Peter Bain
Inside Cover: Joshua Mutchnick 
Back cover: Jeffrey D. Pacione
* /** \ --W t f* MCK *
Dossier welcomes submissions from 
any student enrolled at CarnegieMellon University. All manuscripts 
must be typed. Please include your 
name, address, and telephone 
number on a separate cover sheet 
only. Due to plagiarism laws, 
anonymous submissions and sub
missions under pseudonyms cannot 
be accepted.
All submissions are reviewed by at 
least three staff members, including 
the editor, to ensure a balanced 
review of the work.
All unpublished submissions will be 
returned by the end of each 
semester. Acceptance notices will be 
sent no later than one week before 
publication.
Submissions may be sent through 
campus mail to:
Dossier Editor 
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo Rm. 50
* n 'TEC !0OrUil

---------------------------------------------------

J stall cart see th&tWater 111 
stealing lu||||
The waves, tho$& |jrui$ing hands 
tossed me like a twig 
slammed me into rocks : 
|i||||i?me dowrtja darkness 
^ii^g i nest f rom|j|bail ks.
That river swallowe^l^ ^live
und^llllillft,
held me there
then bobbed me like a b|||ipi 
ti>rn from its tine.
I'm going to dle||| 
no time t^liiiii||^Bi 
^b<HJt the cost of o^iii
I. NiiiiiiMi0e cofrimand
I stiffened like a corpse |
end fbciiSllijln thi;i|p|:.. 
Il^ys and fists tight 
until I Heard opii*j|s
end drifted in a
White Water Rape 
at Dimple Rock
Jan/Be Z. Woestet

---------------------------------------------------

3
TreatmentsLynne Schatz
/ lie in bed at night and pretend I'm dead. I think if I concentrate hard enough, I'll sf
breathing. My heart will stop. Maybe it woj 
hurt. And I'll really be dead.
I do other things in the dark, too. Like tonic 
I'm sitting in the dark in my living room, at I 
I belch when I think no one's listening. I do thiij 
like that a lot. Something's wrong with 
Tonight I think that I'm alone and I belch ac 
one and my dad is rounding the corner from j 
stairway and he hears me. I'm glad he can't j 
me./
"Congratulations," he says, and keeps travel
towards the kitchen. I hear him speak to | 
mother.
She replies. " There's something wrong withl) 
She's not acting like herself."
"How so?" Dad says.i
"Putting on airs. Wanting a real Christmast 
and that bread with bird seed in it.' Nothingj 
tificial, Mother.' Really." The annoyance f 
starts in her voice. The annoyance note nffl 
her sound like she is growling, makes heru 
My father always listens to speeches given in 
annoyance note with silent reluctafl 
Sometimes he leaves the room. He does 
tonight.
"Well," he says, walking down the halto 
I think I am dying.
When I am most angry with my mother 
to blame her. Not because I am dying, 
how I've looked at things up till now. 0^l|l 
everybody, everything; remember all, 
your mouth shut. Insult people a lot. And  
noyance note.Yes

---------------------------------------------------

"he best time she ever used the note was when 
he tried to leave my father, back when I was 
high school. It happened one Sunday, when 
ve were on our way back from church. THE 
'hurch, I might add, the one and only, as in 
eter, upon-this-rock-build-my-church, Church 
hey had been arguing all the way back from 
he Church, and she made him pull the car over, 
he got out of the car and made a real exit, saySomeday, James Sprague"that's my 
^her"you'll be paying for the pleasure of my 
mpany without the pleasure of my company." 
hen, of course, she slammed the car door.
Je were only a mile from our house so it was 
big deal for her to walk home. By dinner Dad 
|ras asking her if she wanted the steak grilled 
broiled and did she want a gin and tonic or
I martini.
was Summer. She wanted a gin and tonic.
/hen I remember stuff like that it makes me 
Dnder what I'm like. Like her, I guess. I use this 
le word, OKAY, and I inject it with the note 
|/ery time. OKAY, OKAY, OKAY. I get ticked 
f just thinking about how I must sound. Now, 
len I figure I haven't got a whole lot of time 
wish I'd been a little nicer.
t there's no helping it, not now. Tonight I walk 
|)wn the hallway to the staircase without sayI goodnight to my mother. Up the stairs, into 
fed; I lie down, turn out the light with an outfetched right arm, then cross my hands over 
chest.
morning I sense that I am still in the same 
:e, still breathing the same air. I begin count
on my fingers, remembering facts. Without 
glasses nothing is a fact unless I can touch 
Mornings, then, are blurred.
i facts. I have been away from home for three|d-one-half months and have come back sensthat I am supposed to have changed, 
bmeplace else, maybe at school, I have. At 
pthteen I have seen enough, I guess. Or all that 
Im going to see.
II! 
ol* hi 
ffl
} 
t
d still, there is my family. My mother's voice 
ikes me every morning as she takes my one 
lable name and twists it into many. Her voice 
is from alto burst to fevered soprano, crescenI
s, then descends in volume and pitch as she 
ns from the door. When I am barely awake, 
el like Joan of Arc must have, hearing cominds from disembodied voices.f|ii
Wther wants to make my name into a song. I 
v only annoyed. Her tone now always triggers
'annoyance.
E
i the kitchen she calls my name again, her 
' ricocheting up the stairs. The sound stops 
_ y open doorway, having found no more 
llowsto invade. Oh, God, I think. Oh, Mother, 
pase, please leave me here to die in peace.
5n," Mother says, one syllable, as I enter the 
Fen. "Noon, Kim. You want breakfast or
eakfast," I say.
* >t yourself."
say lunch would you get it?" I ask.
doesn't reply, and throws a pale blue 
ope on the table. "You got a letter," she 
from Craig."
89<'' I correct her.
rto,d me you two had called it quits. Is heI ^eing that girl?"
"When are you going to realize?" her voice 
deepens with the annoyance note. "In his life you 
just don't rank." She has always maintained this 
with every relationship I have ever had. In high 
school I dated a guy who of course was in love 
with somebody else. Mother claimed that made 
him "safe" because he couldn't be in love with 
me. "Well, Kim," she would say, "I did not raise 
my two daughters to be failures. You'll do bet
ter in college."
I haven't.
It wouldn't matter if she cooked me breakfast 
or lunch or anything now. I am .not hungry. I wipe 
the margarine from a knife that has been left on 
the table and slit open the blue envelope. Greg 
tells me that he loves me and misses me and next 
semester will be different. I believe him. Mother 
dumps a can of Spaghettios into a saucepan and 
slams the pan on the stove.
"That,'' she says, "I'll cook." She walks out the 
kitchen door and starts the vacuum cleaner down 
the hall.
"God," I say, as she Hoovers herself into the liv
ing room. The Spaghettios never meet a plate.
I dump the contents of the saucepan into a 
plastic container and throw the whole mess in
to the refrigerator, then head for the shower.
By one o'clock in the afternoon I have become 
semi-human. As human as someone who is dy
ing can become, anyway. Mother corners me in 
my room and hands me a blank, signed check, 
a slip of paper with a number on it, and the keys 
to the car.
"Go," she says, "to the dry cleaners and get 
Dad's suit and my sweater and that thing you 
had me take in."
"The jumpsuit."
"That thing," she says, "is not a piece of 
clothing."
"OKAY." I match her note for note.
"And Dad has some shirts up there, too."
On the way to the cleaners I wonder if my 
parents have ever liked each other. Maybe back 
when they called each other "Jim" and "Pat" 
instead of "Dad" and "Mom" or "your father," 
as in "ask you father." I would like to think that 
somewhere in their past there was a reason for 
their union. I figure that when I die, it might bring 
them back together. At least for a little while.
I arrive at the cleaners and the check is refused. 
They don't know me. I don't have proper iden
tification for the check. How do they know I am 
Pat Sprague's daughter, they ask. I suggest that 
they call her. The manager suggests that Mrs. 
Sprague should come in personally. I offer to let 
them hear me say something in the annoyance 
note, which, if they always treat my mother like 
they are treating me, they are bound to have 
heard. They insist that they do not know what, 
I am talking about. I relieve them of my jump
suit by paying cash and tell them to keep the rest 
until Pat Sprague, in the flesh, comes in and tells 
them what to do with it.
I drive into our driveway and nearly hit my sister's 
BMW. Actually, it isn't really my sister's car. It 
was her husband's. She won it in the divorce set
tlement. She's twenty-eight and the complete op
posite of me. My mother claims this is because 
we are the products of two different periods in 
her life. Chris is the product of the "illusion" 
period. Mother claims. I am the product of the 
"illusions have been shot to hell" period. She 
never told me that. I just figured it out.
I haven't seen my sister since my return from 
school. I walk in the door and she is waiting, all 
five feet two of her. She flaunts her perfect figure 
over to me and kisses my cheek.
"So," Chris says, "how's school?"
"Okay," I answer, but not quite with the note.
"Mom says you're still going out with Craig." 
"Greg," I correct her. "And we're not going out" 
"Have you slept with him yet?" Chris asks. 
"No."
"Then that's your problem. No wonder he won't 
go out with you."
My mother enters in the nick of time. "Chris," 
she says, "it's no small wonder you're divorced."
"Mother. And how many men have you had in 
your lifetime?"
"God almighty," I say. "Chris, you must keep 
a damn scorecard."
"Shut up."
"Mother," I say, "the cleaners wouldn't take the 
check without your identification. I left all of the 
stuff you and Dad had there."
"And got your own?" The annoyance note 
begins as my mother eyes my jumpsuit, hang
ing limp over the hanger in my hand. "Really," 
she continues, "I didn't think you were that in
capable of a simple task."
Chris drags me into the living room. "Come on," 
she says. "Let's get away from the nag for 
minute and you can tell me how school really 
is." This conversation, I know, could last for 
hours.
My mother has gone down the hall to clean a 
toilet. I think about telling my sister about the 
fact that I am dying. Or how I've pretended to 
be dead at night and it doesn't really hurt that 
much. She's not the kind to cry at funerals, 
anyway, so I decide to tell her school stuff, how 
I'm different there. First I tell her about my roon 
mate. That's how I figured out that I am learn
ing to use the annoyance note at an alarming 
rate. My roommate and I fight a lot. I tell my sister 
about the bar-sized refrigerator I bought at the 
beginning of the year. My roommate is always 
putting junk in it that she forgets and then it rots 
and stinks. Or else she leaves a quarter of an inch 
of orange juice on the bottom of the pitcher so 
that I have to make the next batch. She's a shit, 
I tell Chris. I leave notes for her aH over the place: 
please clean this up, please throw this out. Her 
favorite trick is to get up at five in the morning 
to wash her hair. Then she blows it dry, in the 
room, with the lights on, while I am sleeping. Or 
trying to. She hates me.

---------------------------------------------------

I';.-'-/' :\'J.*  /  SfCpA -  V^" iV-\7. '' ^.   1%.
.-'ft'i/X*?*;:. "": -r ' ' :'
 '  . '' W~v:
: '  :-:  '
V .'- -v'iS'-.vn
 .* l::'&J$'Zi-i' y :: 
V/:;V;:;. ^V'>*' r-'v. * ':
- -  . *, t ' Tv  * ,, ' :  oV '**?-  >* -WlxtnVr^ ^ , - - '  v - *  '.*- 1. ?."  >^>^V\r/w'v^v^/ v.' *'1
i fip^'v,: :-^;^er*r^;;w-.*'?;'.?:' .><".  :-  i= ::^v. -, '^
u__~-N > -^. 11 - J-. -.-% -.it   . ________________________________________________________________________________________________________-__. , - - -, ,________ , .-,,;-5.  -,
5
I also tell Chris about my dorm. I try to keep the 
noise from driving me crazy. There is a girl who 
lives next door who plays music constantly. 
Loud. At obnoxious hours. I gave up walking 
down the hall to tell her to shut up. I am always 
in my nightgown when it happens and the girl 
always has guys over when f knock. I end up 
standing there in my nightgown and glasses and 
I know how ugly I look. One time I tried going 
to her room without my glasses but I couldn't 
see if anyone was staring at me. In fact, I wasn't 
even sure that they were there. Just blurs, no 
facts. The upshot of all of this is that now I just 
call her up. She picks up the phone and I tell her 
to turn her goddamn music off or down and she 
hangs up. I don't own a stereo or radio or 
anything. Neither does rny roommate. With what 
comes through the walls, who needs it?
Chris tells me that it wasn't so different when 
she was in school. Worse, in fact, because she 
went during the disco craze and musically, 
everyone at her college was a one-dimensional 
asshole and at least I live with musically diverse 
assholes. My mother dusts her way into the liv
ing room while Chris and I are talking.
"I'm glad," Mother says, "I've raised such ar
ticulate daughters."
"Shit, Mother," Chris says.
Dad comes in from the garage as Chris speaks, 
his three-piece suit hanging on him and smell
ing of day-old cologne. "Well," he says, "by the 
time I get Kim through school, I'll have eighty 
thousand dollars invested in that word."
Dad wanders upstairs to change his clothes 
before dinner. Chris says that she has a date and 
must go home to get ready. She asks me if I'd 
like to go out sometime before I have to go back 
to school. I tell her that I'm dropping out so we 
have lots of time. She thinks I'm kidding and 
heads for her car. I figure I'll call her later and 
explain why dead girls don't need bachelor's 
degrees in history.
It's when Chris shuts the door that Mother makes 
her next attack. "Are you going to sit here all 
vacation and wait for who knows what?" she 
asks.
"What do you suggest I do, Mother?"
"Call some of your high school friends. 
Something. I never anticipated giving birth to 
such an anti-social child."
"Anti-social? Me? God, I'm just a regular bastion 
of sociality."
"I think it's your attitude."
I decide it's time to tell her it's not my attitude. 
Well, I think, it might be my attitude but it's my 
attitude in direct correlation with something that 
simply is not my fault. "Don't worry," I say to 
her, "in three months I'll be dead. And it'll be 
a small funeral, not to mention cheaper, because 
I'm so goddamn anti-sorial. I don't think people 
who don't want to see me when I'm alive are 
going to be real interested in me when I'm a 
stiff."
"Thank you, Ethel Barrymore. What are you go
ing to do rt with? Razors? PiUs?"
"What?"
"How," Mother asks, her voice rising above an
noyance to panic, "are you going to kill 
yourself?"
"Oh, Mother," I say, temporarily sorry for her, 
"you've got rt all wrong. I don't want to kill 
myself. I'm dying."
"Craig," she says, "this is about Craig."
"Greg," I correct her. "And no. This is not about 
Greg."
"Do you need to see a psychiatrist, Kim?" she 
asks. "Is that it?"
"No," I say. "Don't waste your money. I'm dy
ing, anyway."
"God," she says, "what is wrong with you?"
Dad comes back from upstairs, pads his way in
to the kitchen in his stockinged feet. "Home 
sweet home," he murmurs. "Anybody want a 
drink?"
I want to say yes, I want a martini. A double. Or 
just a bottle of scotch on the rocks. Anything to 
get away from her for awhile. My mother. In
stead, I announce that I am not hungry and will 
not be eating dinner. I do not give my mother 
time to reply. I go to my room and lie down on 
the bed.
I can hear my mother and father as they talk in 
the kitchen. The voices are rounding the stairs, 
coming through the floor boards. I take off my 
glasses. Sometimes when I can't see I can't hear, 
either. It doesn't work. I pretend I'm dead. That 
doesn't help either. I still hear my mother, every 
five minutes, punctuating her phrases with the 
same set of words.
"James Sprague, she's your daughter."
At least she's using his name. Even if it is with 
the note.
At eleven thirty my father closes their bedroom 
door. I venture out onto the landing, then down 
the stairs to the kitchen. She is standing at the 
sink, washing dishes.
"Sometimes, Mother," I say, before she has 
realized that I am standing behind her, "I think 
it's your fault that I don't have friends." I think 
of school, of my need for everything to be silent, 
quiet, perfect.
Dead.
She pulls a platter from the suds and rinses it 
off. "Dad and I talked about that," she says. 
"Maybe you didn't learn right."
"Maybe I didn't. It's okay. It's not going to mat
ter."
"Is this what you learn in college?" she asks. 
"That note in your voice? I hate it."
And, I think, I hate it in yours. What does she 
expect, I wonder. She has molded me in her im
age and is blaming me for the result.
She continues. "God, when are you going to 
grow up, Kim?"
"I have, Mother," I tell her. "At school I behave 
just like Mommy taught me."
"And how is that?"
"Treat everyone as if they were twelve years 
old," I say. "And stupid," I add.
For a moment, we say nothing. Instead we eye 
each other like bull prtt terriers, contemplating 
the attack.
"Mother," I say at last, "I am not twelve years 
old."
"Then," she replies, "stop acting as though you 
are."
"I will if you will." A stock reply for her stock 
reply, I know.
She slams a glasss into the dish water, turns and 
watches me, taps across the linoleum and to the 
doorway. My flair for the melodramatic displays 
its genetic origins as she pauses in the doorway,
"Don't do this," she says, "to me."
The defense ends. I think about crying, but my 
voice is steady. "All right," I say, before I can 
possibly mean anything so stupid, "I'm telling 
you, you and Daddy better get me some help 
before you've got to scrape me up off the 
bathroom floor. That's just the way it is." This 
is the concession she has been waiting for.
She leaves the room in silence.
My mother joins my sleeping father upstairs ! 
have no desire to be in their house but there is 
nowhere left to go. I take my glasses off and lie 
down on the living room sofa. I lie perfectly still 
and wait.
My mother's voice presses down the stairs. 'And 
don't," she yells, "fall asleep on my good sofa I 
I just had it cleaned."
I think she is tryinfcj to kill me.

---------------------------------------------------

autumnal equinox
David Yezzi
we drive again to the country, behind 
the hifis sunset comes as a slight surprise.
every year we take this road up the rise 
of the catskills to shake off our refined 
conversational tones and maybe find 
something that we've lost during the year's lies, 
it's comforting to know light dies 
out a little earlier each day, kind 
of like shades being drawn for longer sleep, 
coming bank down again: red leaves turn brown 
then grey, trees soak fight like sponges, in town 
we can stop for some dinner at a cheap 
roadside stand, flicking our cigarettes in 
a paper cmp, feeling winter begin.

---------------------------------------------------

"All that inwardlydownwardlypuslating-back-withthe-hair-across-thepiflow-malar key I No 
woman is safe 
around a guy who 
writes stuff like 
thatespecially not 
on a hay ride."
Sonny Tufts in Billy Wilder's The Seven Year Itch
POETS
W >r i t
"We'll .start with a few murders--bigman, littlemanjust
MWdistinction
Its just my imagination. Some 
people have flat feet. Some peo
ple have dandruff. I have this ap
palling imagination.
 The Seven Year Itch.
IMAGINATION talk.talk.
"To me, the imagination 
is a place all by itself.
A separate country.
Now you've heard of the 
French nation, the British 
u nationwell, this is the 
imagination. It's a wonderful 
place. How would you 
like to be able to make snowballs in the sum
mertime, eh? Or drive a great big bus right down 
Fifth Avenue? How would you like to have a ship 
all to yourself that makes daily trips to China? 
Australia? How would you like to be the Statue 
of Liberty in the morning and in the afternoon fly 
south with a flock of geese? Vey simple. But it 
takes practice. Now, the first thing you be got to 
learn is how to pretend. And the next time Homer 
says, "What kind of animal are you?  you tell him 
you're a monkey."
 Edmund Gwenn opening up new worlds to Natalie Wood in George Seaton's Miracle on 34th Street
talk.
Strictly speaking, his life was his occupation. Yes, yes, 
Sebastion was a poet. Thats what I meant when I said his 
life was his work because the work of a poet is the life of 
a poet, and, vice versa, the life of a poet is the work of a 
poet. I mean, you can't separate them. I mean, a poets 
life is his work, and his work is his life in a special sense. 
Katherine Hepburn going mad on the subject of her son the poet in Joseph L. Mankiewiczs Suddenly, Last Summer.
W
Deadline for the next 
issue of Dossier is 
November 2, 1984
Talent
'Back home everyone said I
didn't have any talent. They
might be saying the same
thing over here, but it sounds
better in French."
Gene Kelly finding it easier to paint 
in Paris in Vincent Minnelli's An 
American in Paris
may we quote you?
That was the most fun I've ever had without laughing-Woody Allen
send your words and 
scribblings to Dossier 
c/o The Tartan Office 
Skibo Rm. 50
questions? call Judy 
Merrill on the phone 
6821553

---------------------------------------------------

1984

---------------------------------------------------

WA TCHIN(
photo by Don Starver
photo by Evan McDonnellphoto by Evan McDonnell
photo by Evan McDonnell

---------------------------------------------------

photo by Heather McCarty
photo by Colin Raffertyther McCarty
A TCHING
photo by Colin Rafferty
photo by Don Starverphoto by Colin Rafferty
photo by Bob Fishelphoto by Evan McDonnell

---------------------------------------------------

Homecoming guests relive memories
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Staffwriter
Once upon a time, CMU (then Carnegie 
Tech) was a football power. Not a Division 
III leader like the present team, but a ma
jor independent that played against the likes 
of Notre Dame and Pitt.
One glorious year the Skibos came 
within eight points of the national cham
pionship. The year was 1938-39, and 17 
members of that years squad were present 
at Homecoming last weekend to view tapes 
of their Sugar Bowl performance against 
Texas Christian University. Although Tech 
lost to TCU 15-7, the team was awarded the 
Lambert Trophy (symbolic of Eastern col
lege football supremacy), and many players 
were recognized as all-stars.
Techs complete dominance of its op
ponents led to a 7-1-0 regular season record, 
and the Tartan squad outscored them 
177-64, a nearly three-to-one ratio. Tech pro
bably would have finished undefeated had 
they not been victimized by a referees 
mistake in the game against Notre Dame, 
on a play that eventually became infamous 
as the Fourth Down Fantasy.
Coming into the game, the Skibos had a 
3-0 record. Throughout the first half it look
ed like the record would be 4-0  although 
neither team had scored, Notre Dame had 
not yet penetrated into Tech territory. With 
the game tied at 0-0, the Plaid had the ball 
on fourth down at their own 47 yard line. 
However, referee John Gettchel, making one 
of the seasons most celebrated gaffes, told 
quarterback Paul Friedlander to ignore the 
scoreboard, that the play was really third 
down. But after Tech failed to gain the two 
yards it needed for the first down, Gettchel 
realized his mistake and reversed his deci
sion. He handed the ball over to Notre 
Dame, precipitating the only score of the 
game in the 7-0 Tech loss.
Robert Howarth (E 40), a member of the 
famed squad, postulated that the loss actual
ly helped Carnegie. He believes that the 
subsequent publicity and sympathy made 
people sit up and notice how good the team 
actually was, improving Techs national
ranking and helping to secure the Sugar 
Bowl bid.
Five members of the team eventually 
played professional football Whitey Lee, 
center John Tiger Schmidt, tackle Don 
Campbell, quarterback Ray Camelly, and 
halfback Merlyn Condit. Condit (E 41), who 
played five pro seasons, characterized the 
Carnegie team of 39 as the smartest team 
I ever played on. . . we werent that big, we 
just outsmarted our opponents.
After his pro years and World War II ser
vice, Condit put his Tech degree to good use, 
as did most of the others who went on to play 
pro ball. One who followed that pattern was 
starting quarterback Ray Camelly (E 39), 
who played a year with Brooklyn before 
reporting to work for US Steel. While with 
USS, he served as an assistant coach at West 
Virginia University under Bill Kern, the
Tech coach during the 38-39 season who left 
in the spring of 1939 in an administrative 
dispute.
Now retired from DuPont and living in 
Texas, Camelly has no regrets about choos
ing to use his Carnegie Tech degree instead 
of his throwing arm. I never looked back, 
he stated at the reunion. It serves no pur
pose. Camelly also passed on a fact that 
may hearten many members of Coach Klausings B squad. He confided, although I was 
the starting quarterback my sophomore year, 
I was a walk-on [a non-recruited player] as 
a freshman.
Also present at the reunion was center 
John Schmidt, who earned the nickname 
Tiger while at Tech. Besides the Sugar 
Bowl appearance, he cites as a season 
highlight the 20-10 trouncing of Pitt, which 
broke the Panthers 22 game winning streak.
Wnr Year* bfe
As a pro, Schmidt put in several seasons i 
the Steelers, one of three players from i 
Tartan squad to do so. As proof of the tea 
ability, he noted that three Tech players m 
selected to play for the Eastern All-Stan,j 
team that defeated the champion New Yoil 
Giants at the Polo Grounds the follow 
August.
The Tech squad finished the season} 
national status, a lot of pride, and a 
record. Seventeen members of the team i 
special guests at this years homecomii 
They were:
Charles R. Braun, Jr., E 42 Raymond H. Camelly* E 39 
Robert M. Church, E 41 
Robert K. Howarth, E 40 
Walter B. Ingalls, Jr., A 41 
Frank W. Jordano, E 41 Theodore A. Pruger, E 41 
Harry W. Wolfarth, E 40
Joe Betz, 
Merlyn E. Condit, i Mel Cratsley,! 
Ted Fisher, I 
Gene A. Musial, PJj Charles M. Rader, I 
John P. Schmidt J Walter A. Wind,!
Ronald Gumpy Gumbert, PM 40
By NANCY ADELSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Wanted: People to participate and to have 
fun. The new class clubs could use more en
thusiasm, more ideas, and more students. Ed 
Lilley of Student Affairs was disappointed 
by the weak response, but hes not discourag
ed. He can see the progress of those students 
already involved.
Class clubs are merely a way to develop 
some class identity. At CMU, is seems that 
students only associate with other members 
of their school. These clubs will allow 
everyone to get to know each other. For ex
ample, instead of Dramat vs. Engineer, it 
will be Juniors vs. Seniors. Lilley hopes that 
this light-hearted competition will further 
develop the spirit of CMU.
The three main goals of the clubs are 
recreation, tradition, and service. For in
stance, the senior class may have a formal 
senior ball. This activity would not only be 
fun, but it could also become a yearly event. 
Thus, creating new traditions and having a 
good time are closely related. In fact, this 
Homecoming will be the first time that cur
rent students are involved. The Student 
Senate, in support of the clubs, has plannphoto by Bob!
The diverse faces of CMU enjoy Saturdays Homecoming game against Grove City. Alumni, parents, the Mr./Miss Varsityj 
didates, and the members of the Kiltie Band can be seen from top to bottom. _____________________
ed many interclass contests to show the 
alumni which class is best.
If youd like to get involved, there are 
weekly meetings. A permanent time has yet
to be arranged. However, there is to be a free 
luncheon/meeting in Skibo at noon on the 
following dates: for Seniors  Thursday, 
October 25; ;for Juniors  Friday, October
26; for Sophomores  Monday, Octo 
for Freshmen  Tuesday, October 
invitation is open, but please let 
know youre coming.
