Marcia BridgeJudy Kostura
^CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 54  NUMBER .si WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 1962
Sororities Present Seven 
Carnival Queen Candidates
Morewood Modernizes; 
New Year, New Look
Room drawing for next year will be held on May 1 at Morewood 
Gardens. Dean Milligan has announced that the new Morewood addi
tion will be ready for occupancy by August 1. Therefore, girls will 
be able to draw rooms in the addition now if they so desire. The 
prices will be the same in the old and new sections of the dorm and 
are stated according to the type of room (double or single, with or 
without bath.)
The ground floor of the addition*-----------------------------------------------------
will be used for faculty members 
and visiting professors. The 1st 
floor consists of efficiency apart
ments which will be given to mar
ried students without children. 
The second through sixth floors 
will house students only. A resi
dent assistant or housemother will 
live on the second floor also. There 
will be washers and dryers on 
each floor, also a centrally located 
lounge and washroom facilities.
New units of mailboxes will be 
added to the present ones so that 
all mail will be distributed at the 
main desks as usual. Telephone fa
cilities include wiring all rooms 
for individual private phones seo 
that occupants may have them if 
they wish to pay for them. Coin 
telephones and house phones will 
also be provided on each floor. A 
buzzer system has been installed 
[continued on page 101
Carol MessingRuth Kibler
jane BarbrowEllen BradyHeddie Bates
Pat Chosen Mil Queen
Sorority Skits Present 
Carnival Queen Candidates
Tech Hosts 
State Debate
Executive Council
Nominations and elections to 
the miscellaneous activities chair 
of Executive Council will be held 
in Room 33, Skibo, on Thursday, 
April 26. This position represents 
all school activities other than 
religious clubs, publications, and 
honoraries. All presidents of these 
activities or their representatives 
are encouraged to attend this 
meeting to insure good represen
tation. Questions may be address
ed to Dave Pearson, MU 2-0407.Dr. Maunder, Head of the Biology Department, shows prospective 
freshmen a biological laboratory on last Saturdays tours.
Pat Murray receives her crown from Colonel Gallagher during th 
Military Ball.
On Saturday April 14, Patricia 
Jean Murray, a junior business 
studies major from Ashtabula, 
Ohio, was crowned Honorary 
Colonel and reigned as Military 
Ball Queen at Techs annual 
Military Ball. Voting was open to 
members of Carnegies ROTC 
regiment who chose Pat from a 
field of 13 candidates to be Regi
mental Commander for the com
ing year. Three Honorary Lieu
tenant Colonels were also chosen 
by the cadets. Claire Ruge was 
named Deputy Regimental Com
mander, Elizabeth Kim as 1st 
Battalion Commander, and Peggy 
Riva as 2nd Battalion Comman
der.
The Spring Carnival sorority skits presenting each sororitys
Carnival Queen candidate will be held on May 1 at 4:30 P.M. on
Fine Arts lawn or in Skibo in the event of rain. All candidates must 
be senior sorority members to be eligible for election as Spring
Carnival Queen. ?
Alpha I 'psilon Phi will introduce 
Jane Barbrow, a science major 
from Washington, D. C., amid a 
re-creation of Rome and Roman 
corruption.
Chi Omegas Carol Messing, a 
P&D from Pittsburgh, will appear
in a Bourbon St. setting of old
New Orleans.
Delta Delta Deltas theme will 
be the ancient city of Caerleen, 
the Camelot of mythology, and the 
Tri-Delts queen candidate will be 
Ruth Kibler, who is a P&D from 
Pittsburgh.
Delta Gamma will re-create An
napolis as a setting for Judy Kos
tura, a home economics major 
from Johnstown.
Kappa Alpha Theta will present 
Heddie Bates, a drama major from 
Bronxville, N. Y., with a theme of 
Madrid and bullfighting.
Kappa Kappa Gammas Marcia 
Bridge, a humanities major from 
Pittsburgh, will be introduced 
amid the gambling life of Monte 
Carlo.
Sigma Kappa will present a 
Dodge City theme as a background 
for their candidate, Ellen Brady, 
a science major from Glenside, Pa.
Voting for Queen will be May 
3 and 4 at the top of the Skibo 
steps and in front of Engineering 
Hall. If it rains these two days, 
the voting will be held inside the 
main door of A. H.
Execs Head 
Trustee Board
Twelve prominent corporate ex
ecutives have been elected to the 
board of trustees, Mr. James M. 
Bovard, chairman, announced.
At the annual meeting of the 
board, April 9, seven new mem
bers were elected, two alumni 
trustees were re-elected and three 
former term trustees were elected 
life trustees.
The new members elected for 
first terms as special term trus
tees were Mr. Charles M. Beeghly, 
president of Jones & Laughlin 
Steel Corporation; Mr. Ernest D. 
Brockett, president of Gulf Oil 
Corporation; Mr. Lawrence Litch
field, Jr., president of the Alum
inum Company of America; Mr. 
S. M. Jenks, executive vice pres
ident, Engineering and Research, 
of the United States Steel Carp
i'continued on page 9]
On April 5-7 Carnegie Tech was 
host to 21 schools participating in 
the Fifteenth Annual Pennsylvania 
Intercollegiate Forensic Tourna
ment sponsored by the Debating 
Association of Pennsylvania Col
leges. The event included contests 
in Mens and Women?s Original 
Oratory and Mens and Womens 
Extemporaneous Speech. It was 
highlighted by seven rounds of de
bate on the intercollegiate debate 
topic: Resolved that Labor Organ
izations come under the jurisdic
tion of anti-trust legislation.
The best debate team was from 
Kings College. Placing next in or
der were the University of Pitts
burgh, Duquesne University and 
the University of Pennsylvania. 
Tech placed ninth with five vic
tories and five losses.
Our team included Tom Miller 
and Bob Hawkins for the affirma
tive and Allan Topol and Larry 
Arendas for the negative. A1 Topol 
received a trophsas fourth best 
individual debater in the tourna
ment. A1 and Larry also entered 
the other speaking contests with 
A1 receiving first place Extemp 
Speaker.
This tournament marked the 
end of this season of forensic ac
tivities for Techs Debate Union.

---------------------------------------------------

Fa*e 2  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 18, 1962
tI
Opening on or about May 1
THE UNIVERSITY SHOP
Moderately Priced Traditional Clothing 
And Accessories
BULLETIN BOARD
Explorers Club
The Carnegie Tech Explorers 
Club is sponsoring a hiking and 
climbing trip for beginners this 
Sunday, April 29. We will leave 
from Skibo Cafeteria at 8:30 a.m. 
See Dave Thompson, 136 Donner, 
or Hugh Young, A.*L 3300, for 
details.
Citizenship Camp
The Annual Encampment for 
Citizenship  a six week work
shop in democracy  is to be 
held in California, New York and 
Puerto Rico from July 1 to August 
11. Honorary chairmen for the 
Encampment will be Mrs Frank
lin D. Roosevelt. Tuition room 
and board will be $350. Anyone 
interested can write to ENCAMPnot be a voting member of Stu 
dent congress or hold a position 
on any other campus Court. He 
must also have attended Tech for 
at least three full semesters.
Egg Throw
Faculty members, Spring Car
nival is coming and so is the fac
ulty competition known as the egg 
throwing contest. Each depart
ment can enter a two man team. 
Each team will be given three 
eggs and plenty of room to see if 
they can break the Civil Engin
eering Departments record of 156 
ft. 4 in. Any faculty members in
terested in entering can do so by 
contacting their department secre 
taries.
Teeh Reaches 
Halfway Point
At the halfway point of its tenyear development program Car
negie Tech has raised over 77% 
of its $29.7 million goal. A De
velopment Program Report, pre
sented last night at the annual 
meeting of the board of trustees, 
shows that $23 million has been 
raised, with $6.7 million the goal 
for the next five years. Of the 
total amount, $16 million is for 
faculty and student aid projects, 
the remaining $13.7 million for 
physical plant projects. The de
velopment program will end April 
8. 1967.
In the past five years, the re
port shows, $12.2 million has been 
spent for faculty and student aid 
improvements, and $10.7 million 
for physical improvements. The 
latter include Skibo, the new 
campus activities center ($3 mil
lion); the Hunt Library ($3.5 mil
lion); Tech Field ($1.5 million); 
and the Alan M. Scaife Hall of 
Engineering (still under construc
tion, $2 million).
The report lists three major 
projects for the remaining five 
years of the development pro
gram: endowment fund ($222,000); 
budget support for student aid and 
for instruction in engineering, 
science, and management ($3.5 
million); the dramatic arts center 
($3.5 million). This last is a com
pletely mechanized and automated 
theater which will be the most 
advanced of its kind in the coun
try.
Carnegie Tech has received sup
port from four major sources dur
ing the past five years: founda
tions ($9.2 million), corporations 
($6.8 million), trustees and other 
individuals ($5.2 million), and 
alumni ($1.7 million).
TX Celebrates 
Golden Year
Theta Xis Golden Anniversary 
will be celebrated on Friday, April 
27th, by a Fiftieth Anniversary 
Blast with music by Joe Westray and on Saturday night by the 
annual founders day banquet. 
Saturdays speaker will be H. T. 
Eckhardt, a local Pittsburgh ad
vertising executive, who will 
speak on the fraternity image.
In April, 1912, the Gamma 
Kappa Club, a local Tech society, 
was granted a charter as Pi Chap
ter of Theta Ti, the first National 
Fraternity on campus. This year 
marks not only Theta Xis Anni
versary, but an important his
torical milestone in the era of 
Techs fraternities.
MENT FOR CITIZENSHIPS, 2 
West 64th Street, New York 23, 
N.Y. or 2209 Van Ness Avenue, 
San Francisco, California.
Student Court
Anyone interested in holding a 
position on Student Court for 
next year, submit a letter with 
your qualifications and interest to 
the Executive Council Mail, Cam
pus Mail, by 4:30 p.m. Friday, 
April 27, 1962. The only require
ments are that the applicant may
Bridge Luncheon
The Pittsburgh Womens Clan 
Annual Bi'idge Luncheon will be 
held on Saturday, April 28, at 
12:30 p.m. in the Ballroom of 
Skibo. The program will include 
a fashion show by Kaufmans. 
Reservations may be made until 
April 21 through Mrs. E. H. Myers, 
229 Oakview Ave., Pittsburgh 18. 
The proceeds of the Bridge are 
used to provide scholarships for 
Carnegies women students.
So you 
transferred your 
savings account to 
Union National 
Bank today? 
Why?
Theyre paying 
3te% interest now, 
and it is available 
four times a year. 
Make more money 
that way-cant 
beat that.
3te% Tt Tar eyyonm ey ihm Uaoea NTtoeaTl 
BTak tedTr Tad gmt Tll thm dmtTols.
iHE UNION NAiIONAL BANK 
OF PIii3BURGH
Fourth Avenue at Wood Street, 413-415 Federal Street, North Side 
4612 Forbes Avenue, Oakland 
1101 Seventh Avenue, 22nd Street at 9th Avenue, Beaver Falls, Pa. 
Tarentum  Koppel ' Lower Burrell  Coraopoiis, two offices 
Bridgeville  Cedarhurst  Donaldson's Crossroads  Bethel Park 
Cecil  McDpnald  Oakdale
You can bank with us by mail
V.otbei Fdtrtl Heser. SrMMmmbmr FmdmrTl Dm%esot Iatuytan Cer%er.ttea
COPVRlOHi  IMI. iht COCA-COLA COMPANY COCA-COLA ANO COKE ARE REG1 3iERCO iRADEMARK3
5jc 60 million times a day people get that refreshing new feeling with ice-cold Coca-Cola!
QUAKER STATE COCOA-COt-A 
^ __ BOTTLING COMPANYttsq unfer rtjwity o TN Coc*C*! Compaq tag / rmrtg h, r*.
Located Across from Civic Center Motel 
3939 Forbes Ave*
BY 0. E. SCHOEFFLER, E3QUIRE'3 yTshoea Dormnter
Mode r MatldyPayicTny
BIG SWEATER ON CAMPUS-THE CARDIGAN ... the buttonfront coat-sweater is tops in campus popularity. Tops in favor are 
the lofty Shetland and the open-knit Alpaca wool or wool blends in 
solid colors or stripes.
BEACH-BOUND. Should your vacation find you beached around 
Ft. Lauderdale or Bermuda, say, then sports
wear moves into number one spot. Here you'll 
see a lot of TIGER~the bold, tawny color thats 
getting the roar of approval from campus men 
everywhere. They pick it up in sportshirts like 
this, sweaters, ties, socks. Find it in sharp, solid 
tones or mixedfor example, a houndstooth 
sportcoat checked in Black and Tiger ... and let 
them see you "burning bright in fashion.
AT THE SUMMITYOUR HAT... where the
decisions are made, its the narrow snap-brim 
felt in brown or olive-welt edge, raw edge or 
grosgrain-bound.
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill 
Phone JA 1-7600
Open Tuesday and Thursday 
evenings until 9:00
The look of a Coach 
House raincoat is traditional. This Keith 
Darrow coat has hand
some lines and excep
tional fit. Its Scotchgard repellent finish, 
silk-sheen richness ef
fect a degree of rain, 
stain and spot-repellency never before 
achieved by any cloth 
rainwear. Cleaning 
after cleaning . . . the 
protection lasts! Now 
... a greater value 
than ever ... at $19.95

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 18, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 3
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4909 FORBES STREET
Dinah Mathias, Choreographer, on right, watches dancing chorus run through number.
SnS Boasts Talent, Experience
Those in the knowthe people 
who have been associated with 
the Scotch n Soda Club the long
estagree that this years cast is 
the best in years. Many of the cast 
members have amassed broad ex
perience, whose combination with 
exceptional talent promise that 
Viv will be the best S n S show 
in years.
Romantic lead Jimmy Val has a 
list of credits a mile long. To men
tion some, he has had vocal train
ing from Karl Kritz, co-conductor 
of the Pittsburgh Symphony; he 
has appeared as a soloist with the 
Buffalo Symphony; he has sung 
with the Civic Light Opera; and 
had the lead in Carnegie Techs 
television production of the opera,
Hansel and Gretel.
Kathy Escot Lizzio, In the lead 
role of Viv, has been working 
summer stock for several years. 
Previously she was a professional 
model for Saks, Gimbels, and 
Hornes. She has worked stock at 
the International Theater in Crafton, the Pleasant Hills Community 
Playhouse, and the White Barn.
Pat Duncan, in the role of Mil
lie, has already seen the fruits of 
her thirteen years of training in 
voice, acting, dancing, and mod
eling. Among her credits she has 
played at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
in three different plays. She 
played Molly in Three Blind 
Mice, Lola in Cavallena Rustuanna, and sang in Oklahoma.
Regina Ress, in the role of Bebe 
Ste. Clair, has had years of study 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse. Her 
greatest accomplishment is a sea
son at the Colorado Shakespeare 
festival.
Past productions of S n S have 
yielded a large group of highly ex
perienced cast members. Return
ing from the past years are Shelly 
Kaplan, Bill Reinfeld as two of the 
ex-husbands, Ara Scelsi as the 
Head Waitress, Kathy Matter and 
Gigi Franklin as the Maids, Adina 
Rosenfeld as Monica DelMar, 
Steve Harr as Raymond Capland. 
Included in the chorus from past 
years are Wendy Bers, Sue Godin, 
Carole Haber, Ruth Kibler, Peg
gy Riva and Ned Garhart.
* Viv Cast Rehearses 
Musical Numbers
The musical numbers for Viv, 
Scotch n Sodas 1962 production, 
are .well into rehearsal under the 
supervision of Musical Director 
Dave Stock and Choreographer 
Dinah Mathias. During the past 
week the cast has been brushing 
up individual numbers before 
starting full-fledge run-thrus 
after Easter recess.
The rehearsals and production 
crews have maintained a rigorous 
schedule under the Clubs very
capable directors and crew heads. 
Rehearsals are stage managed by 
Jean Renaud and her two assist
ants, Ruth MacLachlen and Guy 
Turner.
Heading the production crews 
are Sue Gronich, Paint Crew Head; 
Karen Seanor, Lighting; George 
Sibley, Construction Crew Head; 
Ronnie Ottenstein, Costume Crew 
Head; Lois Croco, Curtain Crew 
Head; and Sound Crew Head, Dennice Foreman.
Open Daily 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. MU. 1-1288
Conflicts Do Not Phase 
Hopeful Movie Star Viv
Vivian LaTour, or Viv as 
everyone calls her, is a glamorous 
movie star with charm, grace and 
style, but she is desperately in 
need of a big box office smash. 
Her three ex-husbands are trying 
to force her to accept a role in a 
television series in order to col
lect the back alimony she'owes 
them. But Viv, loyal to the movies, 
refuses to lower her standards. 
She is supported by her tough but 
tender secretary, Pearl Quince, and 
and her scatterbrained hairdres
ser, Millicent Hotchkiss.
When Viv receives a call from 
a famous Hollywood producer to 
make a superspectacular movie, 
she is not disturbed by the low 
salary she is offered. But her three 
ex-husbands, into more financial
ly rewarding television, step in to 
cause numerous complications.
Viv is a two act musical com
edy about Hollywood and people 
behind the scenes. But most of all 
it is about the hilarious adventures 
of a zany movie actress.
Viv Tickets 
Available Soon
Ticket Manager Butch Davis has 
announced that tickets will go on 
sale immediately after the Easter 
vacation. The show will run four 
nights, Monday through Thursday, 
May 7 to 10. The new theater pro
vides a much smaller nightly ca
pacity than previous years, being 
able to house only about 450 seats.
The seats for this year will be 
two dollars for Monday, Tuesday, 
and Wednesday. The price will be 
$2.25 for Thursday night. This 
year the seats will not be reserved.
dragging your winter 
clothes back home ...
It just doesnt make sense to go through all the fuss and 
bother, and expense, of taking your winter clothes home. 
Youll only have to repeat the process when you return, 
come Fall!
Play it smart and safe. Store your garments with us the 
economical Box Storage way! Our jumbo box holds up to 25 
garments. Simply fill it with such wearables as woolen skirts, 
shirts, slacks, sweaters, jackets. Well do the rest  drycleaning, storing, insuring everything, and pressing every 
item right before delivery in the Fall!
Our Convenient BOX STORAGE 
costs You less than 2c a day!
DONT BE
BEAST OF
Costs you only o penny or two o day 
plus the standard drycleaning charge 
which you'd pay, anyway! Nothing to pay 'till Fall!
The folks back home will be mighty 
glad for the extra closet space. Call 
or see us about using our Box Storage

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 18t_ 1962
Editorial
Vacation Policy
Students and faculty alike enjoy a period of 
relaxation after many weeks of hard work. Now, 
after several weeks of anticipation, Easter Vaca
tion has finally arrived.
Vacations have become an integral part of 
campus life. Going to college is no eight-hour-aday, five-day-a-week job. For nine months a stu
dents thoughts must be of college. The classroom 
cannot be forgotten; work, study, and preparation 
for tomorrow occupy those hours not spent in the 
classroom. Thus, a vacation, a flavor break, is a 
welcome change.
The profits derived from a vacation depend 
upon the individual student. This can be a time to 
clear ones mind of school, to throw away the text
books, to forget about who got what grade on 
what exam, to visit relatives and high school 
friends, and to enjoy those recreational activities 
for which college may not leave time. For the more 
serious, a vacation can be a period for reviewing 
the past, for evaluating accomplishments to date, 
and for organizing and setting goals for the future. 
For the student who begins to loaf before vaca
tion begins, there is no vacation, only a period in 
which to catch up.
The question of vacations has been given con
siderable attention -by Student Government and 
the Administration this year. Working jointly,
they have attempted to revise the school calendar 
such that it will be more agreeable to everyone. 
Revisions made thus far involve the school year 
1963-64. Thanksgiving Vacation will be limited to 
Thanksgiving Day only; one day will be added to 
Easter Vacation; Christmas Vacation, Fall Festival 
(previously Homecoming), and Spring Carnival 
will remain the same.
If this is the product of arbitration, how much 
of it represents student desires? Is no vacation 
from September to December what the student 
body wants? This is a three month period with no 
break and is not the proposal made by Student 
Government. Is it fair that only those who live in 
the Pittsburgh area be able to spend this holiday 
with their families? Also, what happened to the 
Student Congress suggestions that Easter Vacation 
be three days only, that final examinations be one 
and one-half weeks after Christmas Vacation, that 
semester break be shortened, and that these extra 
days be combined to give a Spring Vacation?
Two important points deserve more adequate 
attention; (1) Vacations be made long enough to 
benefit those who must travel long distances to 
go home, and (2) vacations be spaced so that they 
will most advantageously be a period of relaxation 
and still not conflict with the educational program.
N.M.A.
ISB&BBB&SEBBSEeSSBBSSSBSSSCS5E3BSBES6CBSBSSBSGSBSS3EEBSSSS::SSS9BSESCBBSB;EBBI
If I Were President . . .
A Responsible University
By Paul B. Farrell, Jr.
Much has been said recently about Carnegie Univer
sity . . . about our becoming; a university and about our 
goal to be a great university. The meaning of these ideals 
and the method by which Carnegie University will ap
proach them becomes more apnarent when one finds that a 
major portion of the one hundred million dollar university 
development fund is to be allocated to graduate education.
In a decade Carnegie University will have a student 
b^dy which will be about forty percent graduate students. 
We recognize that the better students even todqy desire 
graduate education and the demand increases . . . This is our 
growing environment. A university today which neglects 
its graduate program is living on oast fflory and stagnating 
whle other universities progress beyond.
Therefore, if there is to be one major innovation which will 
characterize my administration it will be the insistance upon the 
attitude of responsible education which is characteristically graduate 
education. I distinguish this from the uncertain and searching 
quality of undergraduate education. In particular the undergradu
ates first few years away from home may be classified as educa
tionally and professionally irresponsible. A predominantly under
graduate university is therefore an irresponsible university. Car
negie University will be a responsible university placing greater 
emphasis on graduate education.
This will be the future heart of the educational philosophy of 
Carnegie University and the oath by which we will become a 
great university  emphatically I state, we must become a gradu
ate university!
Certain trends in American society enter into this decision to 
strengthen our graduate schools:
(1) High schools education today is placing the incoming fresh
man in all colleges at the level of the junior of a decade ago.
(2) College applicants and/or enrollments will double within 
the next decade.
(3) Job demands will make graduate education as common 
place as the bachelor degree of a decade ago.
We have at lease three alternate choices as a university. Car
negie University may continue as we presently exist with the same 
size and character of student body and colleges. This of course 
would be foolish in our highly organic environment.
Or Carnegie University could merely double its enrollment in 
all undergraduate and graduate colleges. But, again, this is an 
impractical and unrealistic expansion. Indeed such expansion 
would breed a mediocre school.
Or we may assume, quite logically, that there are (1) more 
students who are of better quality desiring to study at Carnegie 
University (entering either from high school or another college or 
niversity) and that these students will be outstanding students, and 
(2) these outstanding students will divide their total of six to 
eight years of higher education between Carnegie University and 
another university.
Therefore, if the type of student entering Carnegie University 
Js an individual who desires to study for half of his higher educa
tion here then we must allocate our resources properly to under
graduate education and to graduate education in order to have a 
desirable distribution of these responsible and outstanding students.
This third choice, as you may guess, is the choice we have 
assumed. We do intend to decrease the undergraduate enrollment 
im approximately 2,200 students (and their education will be a re
sponsibility of the College of Arts and Sciences). The graduate en
rollment will be tripled to about 1,800 students.
\continued on page 9 J
||BIBBBIBfiEBEStEBEBBEIEIIBBBEE!8EBiEES!E*S38EB*EErESEkEEBkEEE*kBiiEBi.ioEB
Reader's Write
Skibo Music, 
Parking, Theft 
Draw Commen
Commuters Suggest 
Free Tech Parking
Editor, the Tartan:
As steady commuters during 
our college careers, we are 
greatly concerned with the pro
blem of parking and we feel the 
time has come to express our 
views.
Last year, as in previous years, 
anyone who drove a car could 
park in any of the schools park
ing lots. Only on very .are oc
casions were the lots full: good 
spaces were available, and the 
lots received maximum usage. 
This school year a parking fee of 
five dollars per semester was im
posed for the use of school lots. 
If all people connected with 
Carnegie had received these per
mits, the lots would ha'c been 
used by the greatest number of 
people. Although many students 
did get these permits, many 
others did not. Because some 
permits are not used regularly 
the permit holders have the 
privilege of parking in half-filled 
lots at the expense of those 
without permits. Much money 
was spent on these lots, and yet 
they are not filled to capacity. 
We feel that the use of parking 
permits has in no way improved 
the parking situation.
Then last week, with no no
tice, warning, or explanation, a 
section of the Skibo lot was 
blocked off .or the use of a 
privileged few Skibo parkers. In 
a lot that has not been more 
than half full all year we fail 
to see why this measure was 
necessary.
We would like a reasonable 
explanation of these actions. We 
feel that the first-come, firstserve basis, with or without per
mits, is the best solution to the 
parking problem.
Names Withheld
looking Forward
The Responsibility 
Of Business
By Allan J. Topol
Skibo Music Hurts 
Individuality
Editor, the Tartan:
It beats me that the students 
on this campus who are always 
yapping about conformity and 
reiterating their determination 
to preserve their precious inlcontinued on page 5J
The major steel producers, after signing a labor contract which 
was devoid of a wage increase, suddenly ordered a price increase 
last week. President Kennedy, angry because his attempt to curb 
inflation had been defied, charged the steel producers with irre
sponsible conduct and ordered an investigation of their price policies 
under the antitrust laws. It only took the steel producers one day 
to act upon the Presidents words. They hastily rescinded the price 
increase.
This exchange of blows between the President and business is 
highly significant for several reasons. I wish to examine in detail 
some of the conclusions that one can draw from these events.
First and most obvious is that the business community, and 
labor as well, must be sensitive to the public welfare. It is the 
President in our system of government who determines this public 
welfare. If labor and business fail to fullfill this responsibility, 
they can only hurt themselves in the long run.
Through legislation and court interpretations, the government 
now has a plentitude of regulatory powers which can and will be 
employed when business fails to consider the public welfare in 
making its decisions. If for any reason these powers are inadequate, 
the Congress may grant additional ones. The important point is that 
irresponsible business conduct, which hurts the public welfare, en
courages more stringent government controls. It is business which 
suffers in the long run from these controls. Thus business, and 
labor for the same reasons, in order to protect themselves, must be 
responsible to the public welfare. Theie is no doubt that business 
is an integral part of the American society. There can be no doubt 
that it plays an essential role in this nations existence. Yet the 
public welfare is still more important. Business should have a free 
hand to manage its affairs so long as the public welfare is consider
ed.
Second, this exchange of blows has greatly enhanced the 
power of President Kennedys office. It was the prestige of the 
Presidents Office and the manner in which Mr. Kennedy used his 
Office which forced the steel producers to rescind their price in
crease. The President needed only to utter a few very powerful 
words and the order was rescinded.
The powers of the president of the United States are determined 
by the President himself and by his actions. Mr. Kennedy has dem
onstrated that the Office, which in his possession can assume vast 
powers. This show of firm and positive leadership on the part of 
President Kennedy clearly merits praise from all Americans.
Third, this exchange of blows has greatly aided Democratic 
candidates in the 1962 election. The victoxy was a victory for the 
Kennedy administration. The Republican National Chairman and 
others who criticized the Presidents angry words were,left empty 
handed when steel rescinded its price increase. I am quite certain 
that both the President and the Democratic Party will use these 
events to aid them in the November election. The most obvious 
political advantage is that President Kennedy and the Democrats as 
well are waging a successful battle against inflation. Whether or 
not one chooses to accept this argument as valid, no one will doubt 
its political importance.
The exchange between President Kennedy and the steel pro
ducers was a victory for the President. It was also a victory for the 
Democratic Party. More important than either of these, it was a 
victory for the American people.
CARNEGIE
CahCan
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office 
phone MU 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief MU 1-2696; Business Manager, 
MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager MU 2-9950; Managing Editor MU 
1-2926; Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Penna.
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Inc.
Annual Subscription Rate$2.00
Editor-in-Chief ............................Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor.....................................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor .........................................Fritz Klinke
- Business Manager............................................Miron Straf
News Editor ......................................................Joyce Holy
Assistant News Editor.................................Margie Park
Features Editor ....................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor...................................................Anne Moser
Advertising Manager  .....................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ......................................................John Blue
Layout Editor..............................................Allan'Pollock
Secretarial Editor .........................Miriam Gillespie
Circulation Editor .Mike Greenawalt
Editorial Board: Mark Appelbaum, Elaine Grumci. Colin Jones, Margie Park, 
Mary Ferguson, Henry Henderson, B. J. Zimnewicz
News Staff: Mark Appelbaum. Doris Bell, Frank Brady, Ellie Denberg. Mary 
Ferguson, Colin Jones, Sandy Klein, Fay Landau, Joyce Lapidus, Marty Moore, 
Gladys Stalinski, Cyndy Wolfson.
Layout Staff: Jay Lawrence. Tom Douglass, Nancy Cameron, Mike McCoy, Barry 
Sliane
Features Staff: Andrea Nethei, Irene Grandberg. Jan Engeman, Marion Mulli
gan, Lynn Pasternak, Sandy Lancaster, Marlene Witman, Kathy O'Dea, Marty
Sauer, Allan Topol
Circulation Staff: Tom Johnson. George Kali
Copy Slaff: Nancy Cameron, Jane Samuels. Janet Seharp, Janice Papa, Mike 
McCoy, Fay Landau. Irene Grandberg. Nancie Sutherland 
Sports St-ff: Frrnk Brady. Tom Terpack. Jay Lawrence
Secretarial Stall: Jean Cline, Mary Breitei^stein, Anne Moser. E.J. Zimnewicz
<\

---------------------------------------------------

Weflnesday, April 18, 1&62  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page S
11 Apathy W ins Again
[continued from page 4]
dividuality seem to tolerate, wel
come, or even relish the ampli
fied music that conditions the at
mosphere of Skibo. Im sure it 
gives good exeperience to the 
radio boys and counts as an uplifing community service contri
bution, but I cant help regarding 
it suspiciously as another of those 
 mass comforts which must be 
presented in identical forn. to ev
ery student so that each may feel 
equal and unique. Or perhaps each 
student sits in the cafeteria and 
coffee shop thinking he alone is 
uneffected and everyone else is 
Pavlovs dog.
Another massive blow to faculty-student contact!
Apathy wins again!
Theodore Hoffman
Head, Department of Drama
Metallurgists 
Have Intelligence
Editor, the Tartan:
I was somewhat disturbed with 
the side remarks directed at the 
Metallurgy students by a so-called 
intelligent student in the April 
11 issue (Readers Write column), 
This perspicacious intellectual 
tried to defend his need for noise 
making in the library. His com
ment that Skibo was not a proper 
place for intelligent students to 
talk, and his keen observation that 
Metallurgy students patronize 
Skibo enthusiastically seems to 
indicate that "Metallurgy students 
are not included in his intellectual 
realm.
This, Im sure, will not cause 
any panic among Metallurgy stu
dents. About all the intelligence I 
credit this writer with is his 
choosing to remain anonymous.
Raymond Kubalak 
Metallurgy Student
An Open Letter 
To A Campus Thief
Last Saturday you took a girls 
bicycle which was parked in 
front of the Library, drove it 
around to the Skibo side of the 
Fine Arts Building, and then 
parked the girls bicycle and left 
with mine. I didnt expect to ever 
see my bicycle again.
But I do expect to see you some 
day. I may not know you when 
I see you, but you will know me. 
I am everyone you look at. I 
hope this disturbs you.
I would like to talk to you some 
day. What makes you believe that 
you have a right to my property? 
Certainly by selling my rusty old 
bike you could not have gained 
more than ten dollars.
Its worth much more to me 
since like most of Cai'negie 
Techs students, Im in financial 
straits and can not afford to re
place this item I need.
But, not only are you destroy
ing my means of transportation, 
you are destroying yourself.
Name Withheld
This Week 
In Pittsburgh
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18
Chatham College, 8:30 William Masselas, pianist, Chaniz 
Invencin; Schoenburg, Op. 23; Copeland Piano Fantasy.
THURSDAY, APRIL 19
Carnegie Institute, 8:30 William N. Eisindiath Jr.
German Expressionism.
SATURDAY AND SUNDAY, APRIL 21 & 22
Syria Mosque, Pittsburgh Symphony under William Steinberg 
plays Rachmaninoffs Symphonic Dances and Wagners Good 
Friday Spell from Parsifae. Soloist, pianist John Browning 
will play the music of Piokofuff.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25
Syria Mosque, 8:30 Ray Charles, pianist-vocalist.
CONTINUING
Nixon West Side Story (movie)
Playhouse Three Penny Opera closes May 13; The American 
Dream and Zoo Story opening April 21.
Playhouse Pied Piper of Hmelin
Carnegie Tech Drama Department Summer of the Seventeenth 
Doll.
Strand Haley Mills and Maureen OHara in Parent Trap; 
Audrey Hepburn in Breakfast at Tiffanys.
Sweepstakes Race Beginnings 
Of Present Carnival Relays
Action in buggy races of the past.
If you had witnessed the first 
Swepstakes Race on May 14, 1920, 
you would have goten quite a sur
prise. That was the first time 
anything like a buggy contest had 
ever been tried at Tech.
The conglomeration of rail bar
rels with bicycle wheels, fourwheeled orange crates, and three
wheeled ash cans put on quite a 
hilarious show as they started up 
Tech Street. They ran only one 
heat in those days, so things quite 
often got a little fouled up, and 
accidents were the usual thing.
One observer said of the first 
event: Promptly at 9:30 the pis
tol cracked and the race was on. 
As the mighty chariots roared up 
to the first turn, the Delta Upsilon 
Grasshopper lost a wing and
ROTC Revises Policy,
Seniors Attend Grad School
A short time ago, some students brought to the attention of the 
Tartan the fact that the senior members of ROTC would no longer 
be permitted to attend graduate school without first entering the 
Army. It appeared that this alarming situation would drastically de
crease the number of students preparing for graduate degrees.
According to the Military Department, the Army had invoked 
this new policy because of the growing need for 2nd Lieutenants. 
There were simply not enough# 
seniors in ROTC who were enter
ing the Army immediately after 
graduation. Thus, the Army de
cided to refuse scholastic defer
ments for most graduate students.
Only students in a few, select ma
jors were to have been given de
ferment.
When the policy change was an
nounced, it was met with wide 
disapproval, both from the under
graduate members of ROTC and 
from their professors. Because of 
this, the Army held a conference
which recommended a revision of 
the decision.
The revision, announced on 
April 6, permits students to con
tinue their education in graduate 
school for a maximum period of 
four years. This new directive 
will not only help the ambitious 
student, but will also help the 
Army to gain the number of 2nd 
Lieutenants which they require.
The change of decisions by the 
Army is one which the Tartan 
readily recommends.
smashed into the curb. From then 
on the carnage was frightful, and 
the ambulances had plenty of 
work. Four minutes and thirty 
seconds from the start, the SAE 
and the PiKA entries whizzed up 
to the finish line for a tie.
In the next few years, various 
different aspects of the race were 
changed. One year, it was re
quired of buggies to enter the 
pit and change the left rear 
wheel to the right axle and vice 
versa.
In 1923 and 1924 the girls got 
into the act by having a scooter 
race. An eyewitness of the girls 
in the race says, Their speed was 
evidently judged more by their 
costumes than by their place at 
the finish line.
The report goes even further to 
say that some of the girls wore 
the equivalent of Bermuda shorts. 
The girls sccooter race, however, 
was soon replaced by a rollerskating race. Recently, sorority 
relays of various types have come 
to the fore.
It wasnt until 1926 that some
one had the idea of having the 
time trials on Friday morning and 
the finals on Saturday morning. 
The running of buggies in heats 
of three cut down the acident 
problem considerably and raised 
the number of entries.
It was also in 1926 that a first 
trophy was given for design. This 
was the trophy which started the 
long climb of increasing competi
tion which has become more evi
dent in the past few years.
The buggy race of today evolved 
from that 1926 race in which a 
new time record of 3:22 was set. 
Since then the record has been 
broken many times, with the most 
recent record of 2:25 being set 
by ATO in 1957.
Cassell A ttends Y WCA Seminar
Kay Cassell, a junior humani
ties major and president of the 
campus Y.W.C.A. will journey to 
Puerto Rico during the upcoming 
Easter vacation to participate in 
a Puerto Rican Seminar spon
sored by the Middle Atlantic Re
gion of the student Y.M.C.A. Also 
involved in the sponsorship of the 
seminar are the Central Atlantic 
and Pennsylvania State Y.M.C.A. 
student groups.
Kay is a member of Sigma Kap
pa sorority, Scotch n Soda, and 
is active in the Westminster Foun
dation. She will be one of twenty 
area students participating in the 
seminar. The group will travel 
and study with an equal number 
of students from a Y club in 
Puerto Rico. They will tour 
points of cultural and historical 
interest, participate in seminars 
and discussions, meet prominent 
government and industrial leaders, 
and have some time for recrea
tion and entertainment.
OnCampufiwithMaxShulman
{Author of "RaUy Round The Flag, Boys1, The 
Many Loves of Dobie GiUis, etc.)
CRAM COURSE No. 3: ENGLISH POETRY
Final exams will soon be upon us. This is no time for fun and 
games. Let us instead study hard, cram fiercely, prepare assidu
ously.
In this column today let us make a quick survey of English 
poetry. When we speak of English poetry, we are, of course, 
speaking of Byron, Shelley, and Keats. Some say that of the 
three, Keats was the most talented. It is true that he displayed 
his gifts earlier than the others. While still a schoolboy at St. 
Swithins he wrote his epic lines:
If I am good, I get an apple,
So I dont whistle in the chapel.
From this distinguished beginning, he went on to write an
other 40,000 poems in his lifetimewhich is all the more 
remarkable when you consider that he was only five feet tall!
I mention this fact only to show that physical problems never 
keep the true artist from creating. Byron, for example, was 
lame. Shelley had an ingrown hair. Nonetheless, these three 
titans of literature turned out a veritable torrent, of romantic 
poetry.
Nor did they neglect their personal lives. Byron, a devil 
with the ladies, was expelled from Oxford for dipping Elizabeth 
Barretts pigtails in an inkwell. He thereupon left England to 
fight in the Greek war of independence. He fought bravely and 
well, but women were never far from his mind, as evidenced by 
this immortal poem:
How splendid it is to fight for the Greek,
But I dont enjoy it half as much as dancing cheek to cheek.
While Byron fought in Greece, Shelley remained in England, 
w here he became court poet to the Duke of Marlborough. (It 
is interesting to note in passing that Marlborough was the origi
nal spelling of Marlboro Cigarettes, but the makers were unable 
to get the entire word on the package. With characteristic in
genuity they cleverly lopped off the final gh. This, of course, 
left them with a gh lying around the factory. They looked 
for some place to put it and finally decided to give it to the 
Director of Sales, Mr. Vincent Van Go. This had a rather curious 
result. As plain Van Go, he had been a crackerjack director of 
sales, but once he became Van Gogh, he felt a mysterious, 
irresistible urge to paint. He resigned from the "Company and 
became an artist. It did not work out too well. When Van Gogh 
learned what a great success Marlboro Cigarettes quickly be
cameas, of course, they had to with such a flavorful flavor, 
such a filterful filter, such a flip-top box, such a soft pack -he 
was so upset about leaving the firm that he cut off his ear in a 
fit of chagrin.)
But I digress. Byron, I say, was in Italy and Shelley in
msMffoa h (m
England. Meanwhile Keats went to Rome to try to grow. Who 
does not remember his wistful lyric:
Although 1 am only five feet high,
Some day 1 will look in an elephants eye.
But Keats did not grow. His friends, Shelley and Byron, 
touched to the heart, rushed to Rome to stretch him. This too 
failed. Then Byron, ever the ladies man, took up with Lucrezia 
Borgia, Catherine of Aragon, and Annie Oakley. Shelley, a more 
domestic type, stayed home with his wife Mary, and wrote his 
famous poem:
I love to stay home with Die missus and write,
And hug her and kiss her and git* her a bite.
Mary Shelley finally got so tired of being bitten that she went 
into another room and wrote Frankenstein. Upon reading the 
manuscript, Shelley and Byron got so scared they immediately 
booked passage home to England. Keats tried to go too, but 
he wras so small that the clerk at the steamsliip office couldn't 
see him over the top of the counter. So Keats remained in Rome 
and died of a broken heart.
Byron and Shelley cried a lot and then together composed 
this immortal epitaph:
Good old Keats, he might have been short,
But he was T great American and a heck of a good sport.
9 gA tg ysOmptiu* * 
Truth, not poetry, is the business of the Marlboro maker, 
and ice tell you truly that you cant find a better tasting, 
better smoking cigarette than todays Marlboro,

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 18, 1962
O Which would take more courage?
mmi
Sor i 
c //
? "Smoked around" till I found It
? Stuck with the one I started with? Sometimes
M*MIIMIM^
SUMMER JOBS 
in EUROPE
THE new9 WAY TO SEE & live EUROPE
FOR SUMMER JOBS OR TOURS WRITE: 
AMERICAN STUDENT INFORMATION SERVICE
tt a venae fw xS Libert, Loxembourg-City, Grand Ducby RE Luxembourg
L&M gives you 
MORE BODY in the blend, 
MORE FLAVORin the smoke,
MORE TASTEthrough the filter. It's the rich-flavor leaf that does it!
W SUSAN f AA999l
 W * J.TI dk
f I LT C R ft
LlMCW 4 MYCR3 iOBACCO C
HERE'S HOW MEN 
AND WOMEN AT 
56 COLLEGES VOTED:
%9f " %L\.......V. MM>pniSfa%W "'%Z2"' %uaejm %T^eous ^
%frS""%SS
%6e""%i8* %l ~'%n'
SdUJIlSUiOC
....... eN0
............sax
%ZZ'%LZ' %2L""%L 
N3N0M N3W
PIJOM M9N
UOO|A|0
Rusher, PiKA Speaker, 
Discusses National Review
On Wednesday, April 4th, Mr. William Rusher, publisher 
of National Review magazine, spoke to the members of Pi 
Kappa Alpha fraternity at the fifth event in their 1961-62 
Cultural Speaker series. Mr. Rusher spoke about the purposes 
of his magazine and the progress it has made in the few 
years since it was founded.
National Review is a conservative journal of fact and 
opinion. In the six years of its existence, the magazines 
circulation has grown to the point where it exceeds the com
bined circulation of two of the#---------------------------------------------------------
principle liberal journals, Nation 
and New Republic.
Mr. Rusher noted that although 
his magazine reaches only a small 
fraction of the people reached by 
the mass-market publications such 
at Time or Post, many of its 
readers are students, who may 
someday be active in forming U.S. 
policy. The situation today is sim
ilar to that of the first twenty 
years of the century when Nation 
and New Republic were advocat
ing many of the policies which 
became the backbone of the New 
Deal and Fair Deal of the thirties 
and forties.
National Review realizes that 
conservative alms can be achieved 
only if the nature of modern lib
eralization is carefully evaluated. 
Mr. Rusher emphasized the fact 
that the Liberals are definitely 
opposed to Communism and 
should not be confused with the 
internal element of the total Com
munist attempt at world domina
tion. However, many present lib
eral programs and aims stem 
from roots which also gave life 
to the present government of the 
U.S.S.R. However, the liberal 
position recognizes the normal im
peratives of western civilization 
and can never accept the extreme 
degrees or methods used by the 
Communists.
Liberal leaders of the last twen
ty years have often failed to fully 
understand the nature of the cold 
war. They have refused to re
cognize that continual withdrawal 
and retreat in such areas as 
Czechoslovakia, Laos, and Cuba 
must eventually lead the United 
States and the rest of the free
world to the undesirable position 
wherein the only possible action 
will be a nuclear war with the 
Soviet bloc. Moreover, this posi
tion will find us with fewer re
sources, fewer allies, and less ter
ritory to fight with and fewer 
than we have now.
Mr. Rusher is pleased by the 
apparent determination of the 
Kennedy administration to wipe 
out Communist infiltration in 
S ) u t h VietNam. He noted that 
National Review had been pro
posing this offensive, instead of 
defenisve kind of foreign policy 
for a number of years. He added 
that the President's decision to 
resume nuclear testing in the 
atmosphere is a course of action 
advocated by National Review 
since President Eisenhower began 
the test moratorium three years 
ago.
Present United States policy 
generally does not make nearly so 
pleasant an impression upon a 
conservative like Mr. Rusher. 
Cuba, Laos and the Congo in 
foreign affairs, and the farm pro
gram and the Urban Affairs pro
posal are just a few of the is
sues which find National Review 
in opposition to the New Frontier. 
Mr. Rusher was in Pittsburgh for 
a debate with Mr. Seymour Mandelbaum, a member of Techs 
History department faculty. The 
debate, which was sponsored by 
the Society for Conservative stu
dies, dealt with the usefulness of 
the United Nations. Mr. Rusher 
presented the Conservative view 
on this subject; Mr. Mandelbaum 
spoke for the Liberals.
Look at those funny Dramats!
lili-'M llliP HPJfiiiWki L&Ms the filter cigarette for people who really like to smoke.
Erik the Red had no choice-but Vitalis with V-7 
will keep your hair neat all day without grease.
NTturTllr. V-7 os thm grmTsmtmss greemoag dosnevmrr. VotTlos 
woth V-7 yoghts mmbTrrTssoag dTadruyy, %rmvmats drramss, 
kmm%s reur hTor amTt Tll dTr wotheut grmTsm. irr VotTlos tedTr!
New Officers 
For Phi D E
Phi Delta Epsilon, the national 
journalism honorary, has recently 
elected its officers. The new presi
dent, Allan Kullen, is also Vice 
President of Tau Delta Phi fra
ternity, President of the Man
agers Club, past Managing Edi
tor of the Tartan, a member of 
Delta Skull and Publicity Chair
man of Student Congress. Allan 
is a junior, majoring in Printing. 
Elaine Vezzani, the new Vice Pres
ident is a junior Psychology major. 
She is Editorial Director of the 
Technical for the coming year and 
is a member of Chi Omega soror
ity and Phi Tau Gamma. Nancylee 
Cranmer, a sophomore Foods and 
Nutrition major and Musical Di
rector of WRCT has been elected 
Secretary . Richard Goldman, the 
new Treasurer is Associate Editor 
of the Technical, one of the Thistle 
photographers, and a member oi 
Theta Xi fraternity, American In
stitute of Chemical Engineers and 
Student Congress. Dick is a junior 
Chemical Engineer.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 18, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 7
Brotsky, Smyser 
Awarded Scholarships
Phila. Scene For 
Choir Good-Will Tour
Questionnaire 
Responses 
Promote Optimism
Enclosed in some 900 copies of 
the last issue of the Tartan was 
a questionnaire regarding the 
current price of Techs yearbook, 
the THISTLE. The Questionnaire 
offered two alternatives: It asked 
if the students ot Carnegie 
Tech wished to continue the 
present $6 cost, which pro
vides a first quality book of life
time duration, or would they 
wish an inferior THISTLE at a 
cost of about $4.50. The latter 
would be paper bound and of 
quite limited duration. The re
sponse was at a ratio of four to 
one in favor of the higher quality 
edition.
The quaity conscious Staff is 
pleased with the results, and be
lieve this to be an indication of 
good student support of the pre
sent price and quality policies of 
the THISTLE. This comes as 
most gratifying to a Staff that 
has worked long and hard at im
proving the appearance and con
tent of this years yearbook. Those 
making significant contributions to 
the new art concepts are Head 
Photographer Phil Jones, Art Di
rector Ruth Seligrfian and Lay
out Director Clint Anglin.
As a result, Sales Manager Bill 
Becker is optimistic about this 
years ^ales, which are ahead of 
last years rate. Editor-in-Chief 
Jane Barbow, however, has an
nounced that this year, only 
seventy-five Thistles will be 
printed over the ordered number. 
She strongly suggests that every
one order his record in pictures 
of a year at school now.
Econ Classes 
Hear Gordon
On Tuesday, April 17, Dr. Kermit Gordon spoke in the Fine 
Arts Theater to the economics 
classes. His topic was The Pit
falls of One Dimensional Econom
ics.
Dr. Gordon is at the present 
one of three members on the 
Presidents Council of Economic 
Advisors. This committee, besides 
aiding the President, publishes 
yearly a book called Economic 
Report of the President which is 
submitted to the Congress.
Prior to being appointed to the 
Presidents council, Dr. Gordon 
was President of Economics at 
Williams College in Massachu
setts.
CLASSIFIED
PROFESSIONAL TYPING  HA. 
1-1456. On electric typewriter, 
reasonable rates. Themes, Theses, 
Manuscripts, Term Papers, Ap
plications, etc. Punctuation and 
spelling errors corrected.
Nice two-bedroom (twin-beds)
apartment, large living room. 
Complete Kitchen and Bath,
Light and Airy. Nicely furnished. 
Study desks, etc. Best Squirrel 
Hill neighborhood. (Corner)
Parking no problem. $31.25 per 
month per student. Present post
graduate student group here 
three years. For appointment tele
phone JA. 1-2497 any afternoon 
after 2:00 p.m. or any evening.
Eugene Brotsky and William E. 
Smyser, seniors in the depart
ment of chemistry at Tech, have 
been awarded $100 scholarships 
by the Analytical Chemists of 
Pittsburgh. The students were 
given the award on the basis of 
academic excellence and profes
sional promise. Mr. Bortsky is a 
native of Pittsburgh and 1958 
graduate of Taylor-Al 1 d e r d i c e 
High School. Mr. Smyser, a na
tive of York, Pa., is a 1958 grad
uate of William Penn High 
School. The awards will be pre
sented to Mr. Brotsky and Mr. 
Smyser at a meeting of the An
alytical Chemists of Pittsburgh 
on Friday, April 13.
It has also recently been an
nounced that twenty-one Tech 
students will be aided in their 
graduate study in the sciences, 
mathematics, and engineering 
through two National Science 
Foundation fellowship programs.
Seventeen of the students will 
receive Cooperative Graduate 
Fellowships which provide for a 
basic twelve-month stipend of 
$2400. In addition, Tech will re
ceive a standardized $2,000 cost 
of education allowance for each 
fellow. Four of the students have 
been award Teaching assistant 
Awards. The exact amount to be 
determined by Carnegie Tech are 
stipends ranging from $50 to $75 
for each week of their summer 
Fellowships.
The students receiving Coopera
tive Graduate Fellowships are 
Daniel B. Chandler, Franklin T. 
Dodge, Ludwell H. Gilmer. David 
G. Hill, Robert S. Hyslop, Jr., 
Mark E. Jacobs, William M. Kee
nan, Kenneth E. Kloss, James W. 
Layland, Jpseoh K. Lees, Ralph 
L. London, Edward J. Mastascusa, 
Charles A. Raquet, Kenneth C. 
Russel, Alan R. Washburn, and 
Raymond L. Zahradnik.
The weekend of April 7, 8, 9, 
Cameron Choir, under the direc
tion of Richard L. Camp, travelled 
to Philadelphia on its annual 
good-will tour. The 45 voice choir 
composed of students from all de
partments of C.I.T. left Pittsburgh 
at 5:30 Thursday afternoon, and 
arrived in Philadelphia at the 
Essex Hotel at 1:30 that morning. 
Friday afternoon they went to 
Peters Township High School in 
New Jersey, where they gave a 
performance for the sophomore 
and senior classes. The choir was 
very well received and was called 
back for five encores. That eve
ning they were guests of the 
Philadelphia Alumni Clan for the 
annual banquet at the Engineers
Club. After a brief preliminary 
meeting and introductions of dis
tinguished almuni and guests, the 
choir sang again to a most ap
preciative audience.
Unscheduled concerts were per
formed in subway stations, restau
rants, the hotel lobby, and the 
courtyard of city hall. They even 
stole the show from the profes
sional entertainment at their Sat
urday evening party.
These trips have become an 
annual event for the Cameron 
Choir. Thus far, the group has 
travelled to New York, WashiB^gton D.C., and Philadelphia, and is 
currently planning a ChiSago 
weekend for next year.
Typing Done at Home
Rates per page or per thousand 
words. Call Margie.
EL. 1-1764
HOME FOR SALE
Upper Oakhill Manor,
Fox Chapel School District
Brick ranch, 3 bedrooms, l Vfe 
baths, large living room with 
fireplace, full basement with 
study, 1 acre wooded lot. 10 mil 
from Tech. $21,900
Call owner, WO. 3-8215 
MA. 1-2600, ext. 289
University Typing Service
Term Papers Theses Dissertations Scripts
Electrically Typed EM. 2-3261
For Shoes See . . 
WALLY'S
SHOE STORE
CAMPUS SHOES for MEN and WOMEN 
U. S. KEDS 
JARMAN and FLORSHEIM SHOES
3612 FORBES AVE. (Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Friday Night Hill 9 P.M.
mair (go([A\toi md mm
Sofa (jwdtny binili
In truth, thm mma Tt Ferd whe Trm magTgmd oa 
rmsmTrnh Tad magoammroag hTvm lmyt thmor 
mTrks oa thm eutstTadoag quTlotr reu'll yoad 
in mvmrr Ferd-buolt nTr.
Today, thm %oeammroag werk ey Ferd Meter 
Cem%Tar snomatosts Tad magoammrs hTs TlrmTdr 
govma us amwmr Tad bmttmr rust%reeyoag 
mmtheds yer leagmr-lTstoag Tutemebolm bedoms 
. . . bmttmr seuad oasulTtoea . . . %Toats thTt 
stTr amwmr leekoag, leagmr . . . smeethmr 
rodoag, merm nemyertTblm Tutemebolms . . . 
bmttmr oasulTtoea mTtmroTls yer Tll-wmTthmr
drovoag nemyert . . . mTar smrvonm-sTvoag ymT
turms thTt mTkm Ferd-buolt nTrs lTst leagmr, 
ammd lmss nTrm Tad rmtToa thmor vTlum bmttmr.
Frem thmor neatoauoag rmsmTrnh woll nemm 
yuturm Ferd-buolt nTrs, yer mxTm%lm, woth Tute*, 
mTton neatrel srstmms yer sTymr, yTstmr drovoag 
. . . amw koads ey %ewmr %lTats Tad mamrgr, 
seurnms . . . streagmr stmmls Tad %lTstons . . J 
amw TmredraTmon dmsoga yer grmTtmr vmhonlm 
neatrel. ihTts whr Ford Motor Company is 
gaining a position of leadership through scien
tific research and engineering.
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAO  THE FARM  INDUSTRY AND THE AGE OF SPACf

---------------------------------------------------

Page   THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April I*. 1962
Tareyton ^won delivers L. I the flavor.* * (iML^aa mm jj
DVAL 
FILTER 
DOES IT!
ACTIVATED CHARCOAL 
INNER FILTER
PURE WHITE 
OUTER FILTER
Dr. Halty Named 
Visiting Professor of Art
Dr. Alfo Luis Halty, painter and 
stage designer of Uruguay, has 
been named Visiting Andrew Mel
lon Professor of Art in the Col
lege of Fine Arts.
Dr. Halty will spend a month 
on the Tech campus working with 
students in both state design and 
painting. He will also design the 
sets for the final drama produc
tion of the year this spring.
His unusual background in
cludes advanced studies in Uru
guay and the United States in 
architecture, aesthetics, and paint
ing. He has taught Spanish, set 
design, aesthetics, and painting 
at such institutions as Columbia 
University, Escuela Municipal de 
Arte Dramatico (Montevidieo), 
Escuela Nacional de Bellas Artes, 
Ohio State University, and the 
Columbus Gallery of Art.
Recipient of more than twentyfive prizes in exhibits and com
petitions in painting, architecture, 
book illustration, set design, and 
costume design, Dr. HaHy has ex
hibited in Paris, Montevideo, New 
York City, Memphis (Tennessee), 
Dayton (Ohio), Holland, ArgenI 
tina, in the Columbus Gallery of 
Fine Arts, the Carnegie Institute, 
and the Museum of Fine Arts in 
Houston (Texas). In addition, he 
has had one-man shows in ArCwens Tap 
Twenty For 
Membership
On Sunday, April 15, Cwens 
tapped twenty freshmen girls, to 
serve as Cwens for the 1962-63 
activities year. All freshmen girls 
with a 2.75 for their first semes
ter were eligible. These girls were 
invited to attend a tea, and from 
their activities and general interI 
est in Tech, they wrere elected for 
membership.
The following girls were tapped: 
Barbara Bashein, Hedda Bluestone, Katalin Boder, Nancy Cam
eron, Carol Ann Davis, Claire j 
Johnson, Marjorie Mathie, Dor
othy McVicker, Edythe Mills. Judy 
Pogue, Martha Jean Renaud, Vija 
Rivers, Margaret Ross, Eileen 
Sharbough, Sharon Shuttleworth, 
Carol Smith, Barbara Thornton, 
Mary Whiting, Arlene Winner, and I 
Pam Wormington.
gentina, Uruguay, France, New 
York City, Champaign (111.), Middlebury (Vt.), San Francisco, Co
lumbus, and Washington, D C.
Dr. Halty has designed sets for 
44 theatrical productions includ
ing comedy, opera and ballet. He 
is represented in many museum 
and private collections in the 
United States, South America, and 
Europe. He will assume his new 
duties immediately.
Penhel Council 
Selects Officers
The Panhellenic Council has 
elected its officers and committee 
heads for next year. The following 
are the newly elected officers list
ed with their offices and sororities.
PresidentElaine Hinkle, KapT 
pa Kappa Gamma.
Vice-PresidentJudy Slye. Del
ta Delta Delta.
Secretary  Judy Phillis, Delta 
Delta Delta.
TreasurerDoris Briggs, Sigma 
Kappa.
Rush ChairmanSue Weisshaus, 
Alpha Epsilon Phi.
Asst Rush Chairman  Janice 
Priest, Delta Gamma.
Chief Justice to the Court of 
Appeals  Janice Engeman, Chi 
Omega.
AlternateMarjorie Park, Delta 
Delta Delta.
Greek Sing ChairmanMary 
Ann Gruen, Kappa Kappa Gamma.
Projects Committee Chairman 
Marney Gilboy, Kappa Alpha 
Theta.
Revised Policy, 
Campus Selects 
Personalities
In line with the new editorial 
policy, there has been initiated a 
rejuvenated business policy to re
turn the Thistle to its past profit 
making status. Most students do 
not realize that each book costs 
$9.80 to produce. Though costs 
have been rapidly rising, the pur
chase price has been held at a 
minimal $6.00 for the past three 
years. Furthermore, the fine qaulity of the printing (Win. J. Keller 
and Company) and cover, have not 
been sacrificed, since the Thistle 
must serve as a remembrance of 
your school years for a lifetime.
As you probably know, sales of 
1961 Thistle were poor, and due 
to lack of foresight a large num
ber of books were ordered and 
many remain unsold. This means 
that besides the loss of $3.80 on 
each book the Thistle had to also 
absorb another $6.00 loss on the 
unsold books. This siutation will 
not arise again. Dean Brown and 
Dean Strick have come to the con
clusion that it is financially sound 
to print no more than 75 books 
over what has been ordered as of 
June 1. For September buyers the 
price will rise to $7.00 plus mailing 
as of June 1. This will help cover 
the loss and also pay for the in
convenience in ordering and book
keeping.
Student Congress Recommend 
Change of Library Hours
On Wednesday, April 11, Student Congress decided against vot
ing representation for the schools publications. This motion had been 
made at a previous meeting, but was tabled due to rules of 
parliamentary procedure.
The General Campus Committee, under the chairmanship of 
Mark Applebaum, brought up the following recommendations to be 
presented to the administration: Cigarette machines should bo 
placed in the library; library hours should be extended; and multilation and stealing of library books should be punishable by expulsion 
on recommendation of the Student Court System.
Cleo Club, a history organization, was granted permanent rec 
ognition by the Congress under4 
the recommendation of the AcBand Presents 
Spring Concert
The Kiltie Band is presenting 
its annual Spring Concert on 
Wednesday evening, May 2, at 
8:15. The program will include a 
variety of modern and classical 
selections to suit every taste. Sev
eral soloists are also included, ac
companied by the band. The con
cert will be held at Carnegie Hall. 
Tickets may be purchased from 
any member of the band.
Last weekend the Carnegie Tech 
Pipers recorded a 12 inch LP rec
ord of bagpipe music. This record 
will be distributed nationally and 
will be available sometime next 
fall.
tivities Committee, headed by 
Jack Turk.
It was announced that Student 
Congress elections will be held on 
May 9th, and also that the appli
cations for activities keys are 
available in Dean Stricks office.
Students!
Earn $120 per week 
doing research work i
EUROPE
For information and applica
tion send $2.00 to:
Perael Research Institute 
Box No. 299 
Cathedral Station 
New York 25, New York
TAKE HOME A GIFT this Easter . . .
SOMETHING DIFFERENT____EXOTIC like Handcrafted Jewerly
Kimonis  Happicoats  Chinaware  Figurines  Party Favors 
Lanterns  Art Supplies  Fortune Cookies  Incense  Novelties
10% DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS
BUDDHA GIFT SHOP
109 Meyran Ave., Between Forbes and Fifth in Oakland
Two Profs 
Receive Grants
Sergio De Benedetti, professor 
of Physics at Tech, and Norman 
Chmura, assistant professor of bi
ological sciences in Margaret Morj 
rison have both received grants ! 
from the National Science FounI 
dation. Sergio De Bendetti has 
been awarded a grant of $41,000, 
to be used over a period of two j 
years for the study of Solid State j 
Properties Using Radioactive 
Techniques.
Norman Chmura has received 
a summer grant to participate in j 
postdoctoral research in biophysical chemistry. Professor Chmura 
will spend the summer at New 
Mexico Highlands University, j 
with four other college profes
sors of science or mathematics 
selected by the N.S.F. He will 
investigate the action of ultra
violet rays on biological mole
cules.
LEWIS
RADIO . ELECTRIC CO. 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
Soles - Repairs 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
Tareyton's Dual Filter In duas partes divisa est!*
says Lucius (Dead-eye) Claudius, crack marksman of the 
XVI Cohort catapult team. People come from Nero and 
far for Tareyton, says Dead-eye. Vero,Tarey tons one filter 
cigarette that really delivers de gustibus. TVy a pack and see 
why the whole gang in the cohort is forum.'
DUAL FILTER
Tareyton
JhJmt .VwMiirwn mr $44U mt O*

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 18, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page t
New Trustee ! Rostow Chosen 65th
[continued from page J] 
oration; and Dr. George A. Ro
berts, president of Vanadium Al
loys Steel Corporation. Other new 
members elected as alumni term 
trustees were Dr. Robert Charpie, 
manager of advanced develop
ment, Union Carbide Corporation, 
and Dr. Franklin M. Allison, vice
0 president, Blaw Knox Company. 
Dr. Allison will be president of 
Carnegie Techs Alumni Federa
tion for the 1962-63 year.
Re-elected as alumni term trus
tees were Mr. W. Ward Powell, 
executive vice president of Mesta 
Machine Company, and Mr. Edwin 
R. Broden, president and chair
man of the board, SKF Industries, 
Incorporated.
The new life trustees are Mr. 
John Mayer, currently a special 
term trustee, president of the 
Mellon National Bank and Trust 
Company; Mr. Raymond J. Wean, 
currently an alumni trustee, pres
ident, Wean Engineering Com
pany, Incorporated; and Mr. Louis
C. Lustenberger, currently an 
alumni trustee, president, the W. 
T. Grant Company.
Commencement Speaker
T
Walt Whitman Rostow, counsel
or and chairman of the policy 
planning council of the United 
States Department of State, will 
deliver the Commencement address 
at Techs 65th Annual Commence
ment Exercises, Monday, June 11.
A native of New York City, Mr. 
Rostow received both his A.B. and 
Pr.D degrees from Yale Unievrsity. 
From 1936 to 1938, he attended 
Balliol College, Oxford, England, 
as a Rhodes Scholar.
Immediately prior to World War 
II, he was an instructor of eco
nomics at Columbia University 
and, after the war, he joined Ihe 
Department of State as assistant 
chief of the German-Austrian eco
nomic division. Later he returned
$Lepper Speaks At 
Technical Banquet
On Thursday, April 12, the Car
negie Technical held its annual 
banquet at Polis Restaurant in 
Squirrel Hill. At the banquet Dean 
Richard B. Teare of the College of 
Engineering and Science presented 
the awards to the winners of the 
Technical High School Essay Con* test. Robert L. Lepper, professor 
of painting, design and sculpture, 
was the main speaker. He has been 
the Technicals Art Advisor for 
some years and praised the con
tinuing high standards that the 
Technical has maintained intel
lectually and artistically since its 
beginning 25 years ago.
Becky Krause, this year's edi
tor, thanked the Technical staff 
for their fine work during the 
 year and presented gold recogni 
tion keys to outstanding senior 
staff members.
to Oxford University as Harmsworth Professor of American His
tory and, following service as as
sistant to the executive secretary 
of the Economic Commission for 
Europe, he spent a year as Pitt 
Professor of American History at 
Cambridge University.
In 1950, Mr. Rostow joined the 
faculty of Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology and in 1951 became 
a staff member of the center for 
International Studies at M.I.T. He 
was appointed deputy special as
sistant to the President for na
tional seclurity affairs in January 
of 1961 and in December of the 
same year was appointed to his 
present position.
A Responsible University
[continued from page 4]
This choice has been made because we recognize the changing 
American scene and the radically altered position of the educational 
institution. If we had chosen to remain a predominantly under
graduate school as we are now with 3,200 undergraduates and less 
than 600 graduates, then we could not only never become a uni
versity, but most of our undergraduate students would go unsatis
fied to another university for an advanced degree or else never 
come here at all because we lacked the intellectual fervor which is 
so much a part of a graduate school. We would creep in time from 
mediocracy into oblivion.
No, we have renamed old Carnegie Institute of Technology for 
very specific purposes. The four year liberal professional educa
tion no longer exists as an adequate career preparation for the 
better students. It would be extreme irresponsibility for an educa
tional institution to assume that four years of higher education is 
enough for a professional. Professional education has outgrown the 
undergraduate stage.
Carnegie University is going to make it possible for more stu
dents to experience the personal responsibilities of graduate pro
fessional education. The intellectual incentive of this new atmos
phere, I am sure, will be a genuinely rewarding experience for 
the undergraduate student as well as our fine faculty.
Therefore, I again repeat that the Carnegie University of the 
next decades will be characterized by graduate education. Much of 
our university development fund will be used for recruiting stu
dents, scholarships, fellowship and loan sources, new research facili
ties, and increased faculty benefits, all in the graduate schools. This 
is our path to greatness.
A man with Alopecia Universalis*
doesnt need this deodorant
He could use a woman s roll on with impunity. Mennen Spray was 
made for the man who wants a deodorant he knows will get through 
to the skin . . . where perspiration starts.
Mennen Spray Deodorant does just that. It gets through to the 
skin. And it works. All day. More men use Mennen Spray than any 
other deodorant. Have you tried it yet? 64f and $1.00 plus tax
?Complete lack ol body hair, including that of the scalp, legs, armpits, face, etc.
Banquet Invites All
Where will you be on May 5th? 
One good place to be is at the 
Evening Student Banquet. It 
promises to be an even more mem
orable event than in past years. 
Though sponsored primarily for 
evening students, day students, 
teachers and friends are most en
thusiastically invited.
Besides your friends and class
mates, the Banquet will also host 
a dramatic artist, Mrs. Ruth Ann 
Ramsey; a cordial toastmaster, Mr. 
McKelway; a male chorus, HomeGarnett Exhibit 
Displays Printing
An exhibition of works by and 
about Porter Garnett, who was 
the director of the original Lab
oratory Press at Carnegie Tech, 
will be held in the Treasure 
Room, April 13-May 13. Some 70 
examples of fine printing are in
cluded in the exhibition, which 
was assembled by Mrs. Roy A. 
Hunt.
Porter Garnett was one of the 
best-known typographers of his 
day, and the Laboratory Press 
which he directed from 1922 to 
1935 was part of the first depart
ment of fine printing in an Amer
ican university. This exhibition 
is especially timely because Car
negie Tech has re-established a 
fine press as part of its depart
ment of graphic arts. It will be 
known as the New Laboratory 
Press, and it will be directed by 
Jack Werner Stauffacher, an as
sistant professor of typographical 
design.
steaw Works; numerous door 
prizes, and dancing to the music 
of the Sweet-Notes.
Tickets can be purchased at the 
Evening School Office or from any 
member of the Evening Student 
Council. For only $3.50 you have 
a choice of baked ham or roast 
turkey and all the trimmings that 
the Adams House always provides. 
Dont delay, get your tickets early 
and reserve yourself a place for 
a most enjoyable event.
mi
 TONITE AT THESTRRHD
OAKLAND
Now Showing
Hayley Mills Maureen O'Hara
Parent Trap
also
Audrey Hepburn
Breakfast at
- Tiffanys
Starting Next Wednesday 
James Cagney 
Arlene Francis
One Two Three
also
Geraldine Page
Summer and Smoke
MU. 3-6992
These two fine departments offer a wide 
choice of practical, good-looking clothing 
and furnishings, reflecting our taste, ex
clusive styling and unmatched experience 
in outfitting undergraduates. We invite 
you to visit our stores during Spring vaca-> 
,tion, and make your selections.
OUR "346 DEPARTMENT 
(sizes 36 to 46)
Dacron Polyester and Worsted Tropical Suits, $80 
Woollen Suits, $90 to $ 105 
*J}vceed Sport Jackets, jrom $65 to $75
OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
(sizes 35 to 42)
Dacron Polyester and Worsted Tropical Suits, $ 60 
Washable Suits, jrom $40 
{Odd Jackets, jrom $25  Blazers, $40 
Khaki Chino Odd Trousers, $ 10
ISTABUSHtO 1l
for college undergraduates 
OUR "346" DEPARTMENT 
AND OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
__ING
Htns furnishings. flats ir|Hws
600 SMITHF1ELD AVE., COR. SIXTH AVE., PITTSBURGH 22, PA.
NEW YORK  BOSTON  CHICAGO  LOS ANGELES  $AN FRANCISCO
*Ljr-'*jeor

---------------------------------------------------

p98e io  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 18, 196*2
be one of the finest books ever 
produced. It is a book which you 
will want to have.
Thistle Promises 
Best Yearbook Ever
This year the Thistle staff has undertaken to produce a year
book which will compare favorably with the best collegiate books. 
For the first time in many years an experienced and qualified staff 
has been put in charge. The staff has conceived an imaginative new 
section to encompass all phases of campus life. This section will 
bring together much of the fine candid photography which has been 
so abundant this year. Certainly you have seen the display! Instead 
of detracting from the pictures, as was the effect last year, the layout 
is being done professionally by top Graphic Arts students. The Thistle 
staff heralds the 1962 Thistle as the beginning of a new era of 
creative publication at Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Along with the many improve-^---------------------------------------------------------
ments in the 1962 Thistle, the 
Staff has revised the method of 
determining the select circle of 
Campus Personalities. In the 
past three leading seniors have 
been chosen by the Thistle Staff.
This group has always included 
solely Carnegie Techs activities 
leaders.
The Staff feels, however, that 
there may well be others who 
deserve and ought to be included 
in this section. These might in
clude the leading scholars and 
those who arj g^ nely person
alities  those who, in their own 
way, add color to Carnegie Tech 
campus life.
The Staff has decided that thes 
select few should be elected by 
a campus poll. All student activi
ties and groups, and all depart
ment heads have been asked to 
nominate any and all those they 
feel to be deserving of the honor.
In addition, the Thistle will ac
cept nominations at large. These 
should be sent to the Thistle via 
campus mail, by Thursday, April 
26. Included must be a twentyfive word credit or character 
sketch.
The nominees, along with their 
descriptive paragraphs will ap
pear in the Tartan on Wednesday,
May 2. The election will be held 
on the campus during the follow
ing week.
Now is the time for you to 
order your fabulous new 
Thistle! ! ! Contact your repre
sentative if he has not already 
contacted you. There are sellers in 
every fraternity house, every floor 
of Morewood Gardens and Donner 
Hall, and every other dorm. For 
the benefit of commuters green 
envelopes have been placed in 
convenient places around campus.
These can be filled out on the 
back and can be dropped in cam
pus mail. A $2 deposit is all that 
is necessary to reserve a 1962 
Thistle until next fall.
This years Thistle promises to
Morewood Revamps,
Adds Phones, Changes Rooms
Hunt Library 
Exhibit Story
The current Hunt Library ex
hibit depicts the story of the mag
azine Charette from manuscript 
to finished product. Using as 
models articles on Pennsylvania 
schools and a commentary on 
contemporary Philadelphia build
ings, the exhibit shows the evo
lution of the cover, illustrations, 
ads and story from mock-up to 
final copy. The exhibit will run 
through April.
[continued from page 1] 
so that the person answering the 
telephone will be able to buzz the 
person wanted. It will be similar 
to an intercom system so that the 
specific person asked for will be 
contacted instead of only buzzing 
the room.
The entrance to the addition will 
be through a ramp over the cafe
teria. All residents of the dorm 
will enter through B tower door 
and sign in and out at the main 
desk. However, auxiliary sign out 
sheets will be provided at the 
ramp entrances for rush periods 
such as Friday and Saturday 
nights.
The interior decoration was 
handled by a student faculty com
mittee headed by Dean Milligan. 
Mr. Richard B. Beaman associate 
professor of painting and design 
and sculpture at Tech, provided 
professional guidance in preparing 
color schemes and furnishings. 
Other members of the committee 
were Mrs. Barr, Mrs. Green, Libbe Cure student representing 
Dorm Council and Julie Martin, a 
senior Painting and Design major.
Each room will have a built-in 
mirror with an overhead light and 
sliding door for cosmetics over the 
chest of drawers and bookshelves 
hung on the wall over the desks.
There will be two single rooms on 
each floor and all the rest will be 
doubles. No pi'ivate baths are pro
vided in the addition. Window 
seats will cover the radiators and 
there will be ample closet space 
for each girl. Venetian blinds will 
be provided for the windows and 
traverse rods for draperies. Be
cause of the built-in features the 
rooms will not lend themselves 
readily to rearrangement.
Each floor will house 42 girls. 
Linden Hall, Schiller Hall, and 
Forbes Hall will not be used next 
year, therefore, all Tech women 
living on campus will reside in 
Morewood Gardens.
Drama Dept 
Presentation
From April 7 th through April 
18th the Drama Department is pre
senting the Summer of the Seven
teenth Doll, a recent play written 
by Ray Lawler. Set against ^ 
Australian backdrop, the play con
cerns the annual offtime reunion 
of two sugar cane workers (played 
by Robert Galaway and Charles 
Walsh) at the house of Olive 
Leech (Linda Friedlob) and her 
mother Emma (Margaret Wilbur). 
The play is directed by Lewis Pal
ter. The sets were designed by 
Len Feldman.
WATCH THAT 
BULLETIN $ J  
BOARD >{ tf
mm in the public eye
Whatever your career interest, the eyes of the whole country 
are on you. Because keeping ours a nation in which a free
man can live is up to young 
people like you.
Pennsylvania electric utilities, 
along with many other industry 
groups, are interested in your training for your future 
role. Theyre not only interested . . . theyre participating.
Cartographers 
Recruited For 
US Air Force
The United States Air Force 
Aeronautical Chart and Informa
tion Center is recruiting to fill 300 
cartographer positions. Applicants 
must have a full, four year course 
of study leading to a bachelors 
degree in an accredited college 
or university Positions are in St. 
Louis, Missouri.
Major study should b^ in carto
graphy, geodesy, engineering, 
mathematics, photogrammetry, or 
physics. An applicant can also 
qualify with study leading to a 
bachelors degree that includes at 
least six semester hours of college-level mathematics and at 
least 18 semester hours in speci
fied courses.
The Cartographer Civil Service 
Examination Announce me n t 
Number 9-56-1 of 1962 contains 
additional details. Copies of the 
announcement are available in 
federal personnel offices, post 
offices, and the St. Louis Region 
of the Civil Service Commission.
Successful applicants with de
grees in the required subjects will 
start as cartographer trainees with 
promotions upon completion of 
satisfactory work. '
Contact the Civilian Personnel 
Offce, Headquarters, Aeronautical 
Chart and Information Center, 
Second and Arsenal Streets, St. 
Louis 18, Missouri, for further in
formation.
Example No.l The AC network calculator 
pictured here has been aiding students and 
faculty at the Pennsylvania State University 
since 1957. This equipment was made possible 
by a grant of $100,000 from Pennsylvania 
electric companies, the Westinghouse Electric 
Corporation, and the Elliot Company. 
Example No, 2 A nuclear power proto
type, now being constructed at Saxton, Pa., at 
the expense of a group of investor-owned elec
tric companies, will be available to both a 
Pennsylvania and New Jersey university as a 
facility for research and experiments.
Contributions to the education of future 
leaders in all fields by the states electric com
panies are not confined to the engineering field. 
These companies give their support in various 
areas of education, to insure a better future 
for all Americans.
Wk
a.sHSSi
PENNSYLVANIA ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION
20 Independent, Investor-Owned 
Electric Companies of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. April 18, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pa*e 11
WINSTON TASTES GOOD /ike a cigarette should !
Up front is 1FILTER-BLEND1 and only Winston has it! 
Rich, golden tobaccos specially selected and specially 
processed for full flavor in filter smoking.MARK FIVARS
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Subii* Sound for 
Swlngin' People
JA 1-8384
ft. J. mold Tobacco Co., N. <1
Track Team and Winged Heels 
Kick Up Second Victory On Oval
CITs track team picked up its 
second victory of the season in 
crushing St. Francis College, 108- 
23, last Wednesday at the Tech 
Field oval. Tech garnered 12 firsts, 
and swept the first three places 
in seven events while coasting to 
its first West Penn Conference 
win. Conditions for the meet were 
extremely poor, erasing hope of 
any record-breaking performances. 
The track and runways were 
soaked from two days of rain, and 
typical Pittsburgh spring weath
er prevailed, keeping the temper
ature in the 40s throughout the 
afternoon.
Jon Borofsky gave the best 
showing of the afternoon with a 
winning toss of 4310.5 in the 
shot-put. About three feet under 
the school record, the heave was 
impressive under such adverse 
condtions. Dennis Gary scored his 
second Straight double victory 
with wins in the 100 and 220. His 
time of 22.8 seconds in the 220 was 
far better than average for the 
soggy track. Paul Fackler took his 
first victory for Tech in the mile, 
beating out Ed Barvick with a 
time of 4:49.8. Andy Niedra, in the 
880, and Tom Terpack, in the 440, 
continued undefeated in their 
events, while Tom Bednarz teamed 
up with Mike Campbell to cross 
the two-mile tape simultaneously 
against no competition.
Tony Williams topped Terry 
Heckler to capture the pole-vault, 
and Jim Sharkey copped the highjump for the second time. Due to 
the slippery condition of the take 
off board, the broad-jumpers had 
to commence their leaps at the 
edge of the asphalt, knocking a 
foot off their efforts. Bob Diskin 
emerged the winner for tne sec
ond time, beating out Ron Kudra. 
Hank Werronen snared the discus, 
along with a second in the 220. In 
the lead until the last hurdle, Rick 
Rogers hit a bit of misfortune in 
kicking the hurdle, which caused 
him to lose his balance and a first 
place.
With the mile-relay coming up 
and the score already astronomical 
in favor of Tech, coach Bill Hmch 
berger substituted Jim Dittmar, 
Ron Kudra, and Bob Biggart in 
place of Gary, Niedra, and Ter
pack. The combination proved it
self to be a worthy one as anchor
man Gen Pontano crossed the tape 
with a 150-yard win.
Tech swept the 100, 220, 440, 
880, two-mile, pole-vault, and 
high-jump in the one-sided romp. 
Only three men scored for the 
Frankies; Ott with 11, OHara with 
11, and Manning with one.
The meet with Waynesburg last 
Saturday was called off on account 
of the poor condition of the 
Waynesburg track. This isprob
ably the real reason, however, the 
Yellow-Jackets may have been a 
little disturbed by the Tech-St. 
Francis score. The Waynesburg 
meet is to re-scheduled for later 
in the season.
After two meets, the ten lead
ing scorers for the Tartans are: 
Gary, 21.25; Borofsky, 14; Werro
nen, 11.5; Niedra, 11.25; Terpack, 
11.25; Diskin, 11; Williams, 11; 
Sharkey, 9; Fackler, 9; and Camp
bell 9.
Mile Run  Won by Fackler
(CIT); 2. Barvick (CIT); 3. Man
ning (SF). T4:49.8.
440Won by Terpack (CIT); 2. 
Pontano (CIT); 3. Biggart (CIT). 
T54.6.
100Won by Gary (CIT); 2. 
Chau (CIT); 3. Schwerzler (CIT). 
T10.4.
120 HHWon by OHara (SF); 
2. Beatty (CIT); 3. Thomas (CIT). 
T17.1.
880Won Niedra (CIT); 2. Rollmann (CIT: 3. Dittmar (CIT. T 
2:03.0.
High JumpWon by Sharkey 
(CIT); 2. Williams (CIT); 3. Vandelinde (CIT). Distance57 .
Shot PutWon by Borofsky 
(CIT); 2. Ott (SF); 3. Hamilton 
(CIT). Distance 4310.5\
220Won by Gary (CIT); 2. 
Werronen (CIT); 3. Black (CIT). 
T22.8.
Pole VaultWon by Williams 
(CIT); 2. Heckler (CIT); 3. OHara 
(SF). Height104M.
JavelinWon by Ott (SF); 2. 
Borofsky (CIT); 3. Hamilton 
(CIT). Distance1325.
220 LHWon by OHara (SF); 
2. Rogers (CIT); 3. Thomas and 
(CIT). T27.9.
Two-mile  Won by Campbell 
(CIT) and Bednarz (CIT); 3. Bar
vick (CIT). T10:51.8.
Broad JumpWon by Diskin 
(CIT); 2. Kudra (CIT); 3. Ander
son (CIT). Distance183.5.
Discus  Won by Werronen 
(CIT); 2. Ott (SF); 3. Vandelinde 
(CIT). Distance1108. -
Mile RelayWon by Tech Big
gart, Dittmar, Kudra, Pontano). 
T3:53.2.
UMOC IS 
COMING
Varsity Basketball 
Players Recieve "Cs"
Ten Varsity basketball players 
ai'e to be awarded Carnegie Cs 
for their play during the past 
basketball season, according to 
head Coach Mel Cratsley. They 
are: Seniors Bruce Brosius and 
Dom Perrotta, Juniors George 
Frazier, Joe Laird, Larry Ritchie, 
and Paul Rizzo, Sophomores Steve 
Foels and Andy Neidra, and 
Freshmen Julian Borowski and 
Henry Werronen. Brosius, Frazier, 
Lkird, Ritchie, and Neidra are two 
year lettermen.
With only two senior lettermen, 
Coach Cratsley is looking forward 
to a better year during the 1962- 
63 season than the past when the 
team finished with a 4-21 record. 
Frazier, who recently underwent 
an operation for his knee injury 
is expected to be ready to go next 
year. Continued improvement by 
Borowski, Werronen, Ritchie, 
Laird, Foels, and Neidra should 
enable Tech to emerge from the 
position of doormat of the West 
Penn Conference. In addition, 
sophomore George M c G e a r y 
showed a great deal of promise 
during the latter part of the past
season and is expected to take 
up some of the rebounding slack 
caused by the graduation of 
Brosius.
Junior Varsity players who will 
receive Junior Varsity Numerals 
are Jon Rupnik, Sam Cupps, 
George McGeary, John Blue, Ray 
Morrison, Frank Oliver, and 
James Kamm.
Bruce Brosius, senior Math ma
jor from Aspinwall High School, 
was named the Most Valuable 
Player in a poll of Varsity bask
etball letter winners. The 6-3\ 
190 lb. Brosius was honored for 
his timely rebounding, team lead
ership poise on the floor. He play
ed a vital role in Techs successes 
or near misses, and his departure 
from the Tech basketball scene 
will be sorely felt during the next 
season.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronical? Time
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU 1-6109
.........................................................
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS Of HAIRCUTS
NO WAIiING EXPERi BARBER3
li* Boiqtei St. (Near Corner Farbe* and Bonqaet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
Its whats up front that counts

---------------------------------------------------

Fage U  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, Aprii 18, 1962
Tennis Team Romps Home 
With An Easy Victory
The Carnegie Tech Tennis team, 
exhibiting early season form, 
romped home an ^asy winner over 
an outmanned Waynesburg team 
by the score of 3-1. The win ran 
the Tech unbeaten string to 2-0 
for the year. The match was 
played on the Tech courts.
Singles
Ted Englemann (T) defeated 
Ron Allen, 6-2, 6-0.
Bill Jones (T) defeated R. 
Steves, 6-3, 6-8, 6-2.
Steve Rothenberg (T) defeated 
G. Hennon, 6-3, 6-1.
Dave Tranquilla (T) defeated
D. Lawrence, 6-2, 6-0.
Coaches, Managers Choose All-School MVP And IM Team
This past week the Intramural 
All-School Basketball Team and 
the Most Valuable Player in the 
school were chosen by the coach
es and managers of all participat
ing teams. The MVP award went 
to John Dobbs of the champion 
Vulcans. The players selected for 
the first team were Dobbs, Shaw, 
and Gary Adams of the Vulcans, 
Bouxsein of Sigma Nu, and Huff 
of ATO. The second team includ
ed Lang and Rolnik of the Vul
cans. Patz of the Grad Eagles, 
Poad of ATO, and Scott of Kappa 
Sigma.
Ken Sutherland (T) defeated B. 
Anderson, 6-1, 6-0.
Steve Rzasnecki (T) defeated 
Linda Smith, 4-6, 6-1 6-3.
Doubles
Allen and Steves (W) defeated 
Rzasnicki and Jones, 5-7, 9-7, 9-3.
Rotherberg and Stein (T) de
feated Lawrence and Landerson, 
6-0, 6-0.
Tranquilla and Kamm (T) de
feated Smith and Hennen, 6-0, S-2.
Ohio State Re-evaluates 
Position Of Sports In College
Ohio State University, which 
for years has had one of the best 
college football teams in the coun
try, is not entirely happy with the 
image it presents to the public 
and has decided to take a fresh 
look at big-time athletics and 
their relationship to the goals of 
higher education.
This concerns the forces that 
came into play when the Ohio!
State University Faculty Council 
decided last fall not to let the 
Buckeyes play in the Rose Bowl. 
The decision aroused a storm of 
protest among students, alumni, 
and other Buckeye boosters, but 
according to the article, it re
flected a determination on the 
part of the OSU faculty not to let 
football overshadow the academic 
side of a college education.
Pointing out that the Buckeyes
more spectators to thei( 
games than almost anj
draw 
home
other college football team in the 
country, and that the people o( 
central Ohio have a proprietarj 
interest in the team because thej 
built Ohio Stadium with their owi 
money and continue to suppor 
the University with their tax dol* 
lars, were pointed out as som* 
of the problems created by such a 
situation.
Get Luck
the taste to
Europe Offers 
Summer Jobs
The International Student 
Travel Center states that there 
are still several thousand summer 
jobs available for U.S. college stu
dents who would like to spend 
the summer working in Europe. 
Available jobs include resort, 
farm, hospital, child care and 
camp couseling jobs plus other 
opportunities. These jobs pay the 
standard wage of the country in 
which they are located. Wages 
range from room and board only 
in Spain to $150 a month for the 
highest paid positions in West 
Germany. This is an opportunity 
not only to visit Europe, but to 
earn some of the expenses.
For complete information con
tact directly the International 
Student Travel Center, 39 Cortlandt Street, New York 7, N.Y.
GRADES
MADE Learn to read iM
l^lwlCLf to 1,000% faster 
f TT with understanding 
Vt I an enjoyment impossible
RETTED in conventUma,DL I I CK reading methods.
This new way to 
read will help 
jov do better on exams, cut your 
hours of study to give you more 
time for extracurricular activities. 
Taught in small classes in cities 
11 over the country with personal 
attention by skilled teachers. 
Classes now forming. Ask for our 
FREE brochure.
EVELYN WOOO 
RmTdoag DraTmons Iastotutm 
Oy Pottsburgh, Ian.
Penn-Sheraton Hotel 
(1st floor)
William Penn Place 
Pittsburgh 30, Pa.
Phone: COurt 1-5933
WhTt mTkms Lunkr 3trokm thm yTverotm rmgulTr nogTrmttm ey nellmgm smekmrs? Foam-tebTnne tTstm. 
ihm tTstm ey T Lunkr os grmTt te stTrt woth, Tad ot s%eols reu yer ethmr nogTrmttms. ihTt's whr 
Lunkr smekmrs stTr Lunkr smekmrs. 3e, gmt thm tTstm reull wTat te stTr woth. Gmt Lunkr tedTr.
Q ot r. OkaProduct of dnvuean c Staoe* is our mddU name'
