Housing and Food Service 
announce revised plans
photo by Jerry McCavitt
Inhabited by members of the sophomore design class, this Chinese dragon won first place at 
the Beaux Arts ball.
Dr Richard Van Horn, Vice Provost, and 
Mark Marsella, SDCs new' President, met 
last week to discuss the new proposals for 
Housing and Food Service. Two weeks ago 
the adminstration proposed a 7% average 
increase in Housing rates, however, Van 
recently increased this figure to 10%. 
Marsella explained that an increase is neces
sary to cover the cost of renovations slated 
for D-tower of Morewood Gardens in 1981 - 
82. The exact price increases for the individ
ual room categories have not yet been 
determined.
Marsella stated that SDCs biggest com
plaint about the expected increase, is the 
universitys policy regarding renovations. 
The university wants next years Housing 
charges to cover the $800,000 in renovations 
scheduled for the D-tower of Morewood 
Gardens, according to Marsella. He said, 
We as the current students have to fund all 
of the renovations now even though stuCuts expected in PHEAA grants
by Jennifer Hutton
In addition to President Reagans 
proposed cuts in federal financial aid, a 
dec tease in the available Pennsylvania 
Higher Education Assistance Agency 
(PHEAA) is also expected, according to 
Walter C. Cathie, Director of Financial Aid.
Cathie explained that although Governor 
Thornburgh allotted additional funds for 
financial aid in both the 1980-81 and 1981-82 
budgets, the PHEAA board, which is re
sponsible for allocating the money, favors 
increasing aid to publically supported 
colleges while simultaneously decreasing 
money to those which are privately owned.
In a letter to President Cyert, Francis 
Michelini, the sole lobbyist for the privately 
supported institutions, described the 
prevalent political attitude. Although 
Michelini believes legislators are aware that 
middle income parents ate hard pressed to 
pay the high tuition of private colleges 
relative to public, he also believes, ...there 
seems To be little political persuasion that 
would support a position of lower grants to 
low income families in favor of maintaining 
support to higher income families.
Cathie pointed out that the university 
increased its grants to students in 1980-81 in 
order to compensate for the loss of PHEAA 
and federal aid. He said, What students 
dont realize is when their aid gbes, CMU
In this issue:
isn t the bad guy, but the real bad guy is the 
state and federal government. He 
commented that the university will 
continue this policy' in 1981-82 but CMU 
will not operate this way for an extended 
period of time.
Cathie said If it w'asnt for the prudence 
of President \Cyert in not building more 
physical facilities, CMU wouldnt be able to 
devote so much money to financial aid. He 
also remarked, We are one of the tew 
colleges in the nation which has doubled 
our commitment to financial aid.
Regarding the future status of financial 
aid, Cathie believes that the gap in aid 
between publics and privates will 
continue to widen unless students and 
parents become more politically active. He 
commented, Ignorance is bliss, but youll 
have to pay the price...We would love to see 
our kids lobby in Harrisburg, Cathie said, 
because he feels that this is the only way the 
private institutions will get their fair share 
of financial aid dollars.
While Michelini represents the interests
of the privately owned institutions, each 
major public institution has several 
representadves-the University of Pittsburgh 
alone has five lobbyists in Harrisburg. 
While the publics outdo the privates in 
lobbying manpower, the small private 
colleges are not even aware of the financial 
status of their students. The small private 
institutions like Alliance and Mercyhurst 
Colleges dont have the data base that CMU 
does so they are not aware of what is going 
on, Cathie said. He feels that these colleges 
are too busy surviving on a day to day basis 
to contribute to lobbying efforts.
If the financial aid situation is not altered, 
Cathie is concerned that the university 
might be forced to admit students on the 
basis of their ability to pay. Are we going to 
have to start recruiting places like Ellis, 
Shadyside Academy, and Greenwich, 
Connecticut instead of places like Rankin, 
Braddock, and Wilkinsburg? Cathie 
wonders. He is worried that many potential 
students may be priced out of the university 
but he expects that CMU will still be here.
dents of the future will be reaping the 
benefits.
Marsel las continued, Cyert and the top 
administrators feel we (students) must 
totally fund all capital renovations unless 
we have a HUD loan or a surplus in a 
general Auxilary Fund (to cover the expen
ditures), but because Food Serv ice is contin
ually running in the red there isnt any 
surplus.
.Marsella also objected to the timing of 
this announcement, This decision comes 
only one week (Wednesday, March 18) 
before room retention. This is very short 
notice and the extra money might be 
enough for some students to decide to live 
off campus next year.
The SDC president pointed out that if the 
university policy regarding capital improve
ments is not altered by next year, the sche
dule for the 1982-83 renovation of 
Morewood A,B, and C towers will also be 
payed for in one year by an additional 
increase in housing rates.
Concerning future price increases in cam
pus housing, Van Horn said that as long as 
the current inflation rate remaina about 10% 
students can expect housing rates to go up 
by the same amount, regardless of capital 
improvements.
At last Tuesdays senate meeting, Oscar 
Mayer, Director of Auxilary Sen ices, stated 
that it costs the university $20,000 per year to 
rent the equipment necessary to cover the 
cost of operating the Vali-Dine system. Sena
tor Jody Daniels then suggested that a fee be 
charged to cover the cost of the rented equip
ment because she believes that many stu
dents would be willing to pay for the 
convenience of using a Vali-Dine card.
Under the provisions of the new ValiDine system, a $15 fee would be charged to 
students who wish to use a Vali-Dine card, 
but the use of the card would not be 
required-students could pay cash instead. A 
five dollar fee would also be charged each 
time a student added money to his account: 
initially, however, any increment of $100 
could be placed into the account.
At the end of each semester a bonus would 
be awarded on the following basis:
continued on page 20
English prof. awarded honor
Steinberg receives Thomas S. Baker chair
Neivs
Imposter fined at senate debates ..
Vandalism on campus.....................
Features
4 of campus attends Beaux Arts .. 
Introducing two new columnists .
Entertainment
New Play Festival explodes.........
Make-Believe Ballroom Orchestra 
Sports
Mens basketball winds up............
Top Jocks series continues............
. page 7 
 page 8
page 13 
page 15
page 23 
page 24
page 27 
page 28
by Greg Piscosky
Dr. Erwin R. Steinberg, professor of Eng
lish and Interdisciplinary studies and Direc
tor of the Communications Design Center, 
has been named the Thomas S. Baker Pro
fessor of English and Interdisciplinary Stu
dies. In the words of CMU President 
Richard Cyert, this award is ...the highest 
recognition Camegie-Mellon bestows on its 
faculty. Cyert went on to praise Steinberg 
for his outstanding accomplishments.
The chair is named for Thomas S. Baker, 
the second president of the university. Stein
berg enjoys a distinction bestowed on the 
late Gladys Schmitt, a distinguished nove
list, and Professor A. Fred Sochatoff of the 
English department. The chair is named for 
rhomas S. Baker, the second president of 
the university and the award is funded by his 
estate. Steinberg has also won several other
academic awards. He won the Carnegie 
Teaching Award in 1956, in 1969 he was 
named Distinguished Alumnus by the State 
University of New York at Albany and 
Alumnus of the Year by the State University 
of New York at Plattsburgh, in 1971.
Steinberg has been a member of the 
faculty since 1946, when, while passing 
through Pittsburgh to visit an Air Foice 
buddy, he arranged an interview with the 
provost of what was then Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. Offered an academic posi
tion, he embarked on a fruitful career.
While in the service, he taught hydraulics 
although his training was in English. This 
combination of aptitudes enabled him to 
found the CMU Technical Writing and 
Editing program in 1958, the first of its kind 
in the nation.continued on page 9
photo by Jerry McCavitt
DR. ERWIN STEINBERG

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.___________________
Discussing tomorrows Student Senate election
Some campus political observers believe 
that if The Tartan were to endorse a Student 
Senate presidential candidate, that candidate 
would be certain to win.
Others feel that a Tartan endorsement 
would be the kiss of death. We feel that the 
fairest, most helpful thing to do for our readers 
is to outline the strengths and weaknesses of 
each candidate in what we feel to be three vital 
criteria.
Imagination
Ralph Sherman is the political thinker and 
he reacts like a politician. His double talk and 
jargon could potentially work for or against 
the student body. He is supremely knowledgable of the political process.
Nina might not be an original thinker, but
she is a reasonable one. Her plans and pro
grams are as sensible as they are obvious. 
Houska would not bring the student body any 
good or bad surprizes.
Steve Smith is theenthusiasdc thinker. Once 
he gets an idea, he runs with it, somedmes to 
the point of narrow-mindedness. It is from 
Smith that we can expect the good and bad 
surprizes.
Enthusiasm
Sherman and Houska both want the presid
ency badly, but they appear lackluster on their 
campaigning, seemingly going through the 
motions./Smith looks to be the genuinely modvated 
candidate. His idealism borders on naivete. 
Perhaps Sherman and Houska have been 
sobered by experience.
Leadership
Leadership is the buzzword of Shermans 
campaign. We have our reservations about all 
three candidates in this respect. Houska and 
Smith are too soft spoken, Sherman is too 
wordy.
All three candidates are qualified and if 
elected would devote a lot of time to their 
position. We encourage all students to read the 
special elecdon supplement in this issue, pam 
33 to 40.
There are real differences between these can
didates, student voters should carefully exam
ine their positions and ideologies and vote 
accordingly. Responsible representation is 
achieved by responsible votingthere are no 
subsdtutes.
Guest column
University president speaks out on tuition hikes
by Dr. Richard Cyert
This year has been outstanding for 
Carnegie-Mellon University. The landmark 
achievements include the beginning of the 
Robotics Institute, the successful comple
tion of the Investments in Progress cam
paign, and the recent symposium for Nobel 
Laureates arranged by CMU in connection 
with the opening of the Pittsburgh Conven
tion Center. The Department of Music gave 
a concert at Carnegie Hall in New York, and 
the University was died in national publica
tions for its excellence.
President Reagans budget proposals and 
the recent concerns expressed in The Tartan 
about Auxiliary Services rates for next year 
remind me of the special importance of the 
committee now at work to recommend tui
tion for 1982-83.
It is important for us to realize that tuition 
income does not begin to cover the expenses 
of an education at Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity. For example, last years tuition income 
of 23.7 million dollars represented 58% of the
41.2 million dollars of funds necessary for
the operation of the university, its physical 
plant and educational services, exclusive of 
research and auxilary services like housing 
and food service. The total operating expen
ditures were 71.6 million dollars (tuition 
income is 33% of this total). Without the 
assistance of endowment income, annual 
gifts, and overhead recovered from spon
sored research, tuition income would have 
to play a much larger role in meeting the 
costs of an education at CMU. Indeed tui
tion income does not meet die costs of the 
academic departments, plus the costs of the 
various services and departments which 
direcdy support the teaching mission of the 
university.
Additional factors to consider are the 
rapidly rising inflation rate and competi
tion for faculty from business and industry. 
For instance, high starting salaries for grad
uates have attracted excellent people away 
from careers in teaching and research. Thus, 
we must now compete in the market place to 
retain our good faculty and to recruit exoepuonally qualifed new members. In some 
cases recendy, we have not competed sucessfully; therefore, increases in faculty salaries 
have become critically important.
In view of these facts, I appoint an annual 
tuition committee consisting of faculty, stu
dents, administration, and parents. This 
committee carefully studies the financial 
situation of the university. It examines cur
rent costs, projects the effects of inflation 
upon them, takes into account any special 
needs which can be anticipated, and reviews 
the potential for contributions from endow
ment and other sources to meet the educa
tional costs of operating the university.
This year, the tuition committee is 
chaired by Professor Melvin Bernstein. Stu
dent members include Richard Hanusek, 
chairman of the Finance Committee of Stu
dent Senate, and Lane Bess, a student sena
tor. For the first time, parents of two CMU 
students are members of the committee. I am 
requesting that the committee report be 
published in full and that students read it
letters
Were all entitled to one mistake, right?
Editor
It is agreed that in todays world, you 
must pay to be educated. And as always, you 
get what you pay for. We spend good money 
to come here and we get a complete educa
tion for it. But there are two sides to CMUs 
educaton. There is the academic side where 
we leam our calculus and solfege. And there 
is the other side where we leam about peo
ple. We leam that people make mistakes.
Whoever installed the power of the 
Camegie-Mellon Housing Office in Gerald 
Dalton made a mistake. The job of housing 
director has to be one of the most delicate 
jobs within the university; far too delicate 
for a man of such indelicate manners. Per
haps the adminstration has been overlook
ing a basic principle behind the operation of 
a higher learning institution.
We see that the Housing Office doesnt 
know that in order to survive, a university 
has to be a give and take opertion. Without 
Camegie-Mellon, there would be no stu
dents here. Likewise, without students, there
would be no CMU. There might be a 
research institution, but there would be no 
university. Remember, Mr. Dalton, a 
research institution doesnt need a housing 
office.
When we desire housing, we sign a con
tract; a contract full of the legal obligations 
of the student to the university. The legal 
obligations of the university amount to little 
more than having to provide minimum fur
nishings to each room. Does the average 
student know that the university has no 
legal obligation to provide water, let alone 
hot water? To the university, it is assumed 
that they will. We as students take it on good 
faith that they' will, when we sign the hous
ing contract. Talk to anyone who has had 
the pleasure of dealing with Mr. Dalton 
(after the contract has been signed) about 
good faith.
We ask ourselves what Mr. Dalton has to 
lose. Better the administration ask them
selves what they have to lose. A recent group 
of sleeping-baggers that we hosted got a real
The Tartan will forego its traditional Tuesday publication 
day next week. The next issue of The Tartan will be Thurs
day March 19 instead of Tuesday the 17th.
The Tartan not appear again until April 7.
The next Dossier will be included in the March 19 issue.
taste of CMU housing and Gerald Dalton 
when they had to take an ice-cold shower at 
7:30 in the morning. It couldnt have 
impressed them to hear that maintenance 
requests had been filed personally with Dal
ton for two weeks. Can the administration 
really believe that prospective students will 
overlook the housing situation just to come 
to CMU?
The job of housing director is admittedly 
difficult. With some students willing to 
abuse the system, a good director needs to 
stick to the rules. Sometimes students will 
feel slighted or wronged, but the rules are 
designed to be fair to everyone, and it should 
be the goal of the administration to help 
students realize this.
Gerald Daltons intimidation tactics do 
nothing but widen the gap between the stu
dents and the administration. It wouldnt 
hurt him any to at least appear concerned 
and compassionate. And it sure would help 
a lot of alienated students feel better. His 
purposeless arrogance cant be tolerated any 
longer, by either the administration or the 
students. To be so consistently arrogant 
means that s<x>ner or later he's going to 
overstep his legal or moral bounds. Its going 
to cost someone and it better not lx* the 
student.
Sincerely, 
Bartholomew Sholto
carefully to understand how the decision on 
tuition is made.
Two weeks after I receive the report, I call 
the tuition committee together and supple
ment it with a number of other people, 
including students who were not on the 
committee but who have had a chance to 
read the report. The aim of this meeting is to 
discuss the report openly and to get a recom
mendation from the people present. On the 
basis of this meeting and my own analysis of 
what is best for the university as a whole, I 
make a recommendation to the Executive 
Committee of the Trustees at their June 
meeting. I can promise that the cost of tui
tion at another institution is not the basis on 
which my recommendation will be made. It 
must be justified on the needs of this institu
tion. The trustees have the decision-making 
power; however, I make the final 
recommendation.
The problem to be addressed by the tui
tion committee, therefore, is the growing 
cost of providing a high quality education 
in the best enviroment we can create. In the 
past year we have seen the growing respect 
Camegie-Mellon, its students, and its 
faculty have earned by their achievements. 
Working together, we can continue that 
improvement. I seek your comments when 
the report is published on April 1.
Dr. Cyert is president of Camegie-Mellon 
University.
Thlrtan.
Editor-in-Chief.......................Richard Gorelick
Associate Editor...............................Bob Leighty
Managing Editor........................Robert Zusman
Business Manager.................;... Linda Hetrick
Asst. Business Manager........ Pam Shugerman
News Editor............................. Jennifer Hutton
Asst News Editors..........................Alice Alfonsi
Monica Gellio
Features Editor..................... Maureen Biennan
Asst. Features Editor................Kadty Kruminert
Entertainment Editor.....................Adam Lauzar
Sports Editor..................................Gregg Bossier
Dossier Editor..................................Lynn Epstein
Photography Editors ... ........Chuck Oiidekel
Doug Ell>s
Contributing Editors ..................... Jim Balsom
Sue Borg 
Doug Kirsop
Production Manager.....................Vince Guinto
Production Staff...................................Bob Han
Mark Shelton
Cx>(jyiit^ht  1981 b\ The Tartan. I1kEditorial B<xird 
serves the right to withhold from publication 
cops it deans unfit for publication. Editorial Offit% 
Skilx 50, <112) 578-2! 11. Business (Xfices: Skibo 
(112) ">78-2111.21 hour phone. (412) 578-211.1 Mailing 
address: Box 17. Vhenley Park. Pittsburgh PA 132 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1981The TartanPage 3
tters
he most qualified candidate
has served on numerous trustee committees, 
reporting to the trustees student opinion on 
such crucial issues as food service, housing, 
and security.
Nina has the contacts and the knowledge 
to know exactly who to go to get any prob
lem, big or small, solved quickly. The work
ing relationships she has developed with 
many key people in the administration will 
serve as a tremendous asset for her if she is 
president of student government.
With all of her knowledge and expertise, 
she has been on senate since her freshman 
year, Nina is obviously the most qualified 
candidate for president.
Therefore, I urge all of you to think care
fully and vote in this election, and when you 
vote for president I hope you vote for Nina. 
She is beyond a shadow of a doubt the most 
qualified candidate in the race.
Sincerely, 
Rich Hanusek, Chairman 
Senate Finance Committee
liton
0w that we have reached the end of 
ther session of senate, I think that its fair 
t we all pause for just a moment to survey 
product of last semesters work, 
uring the last several months senate has 
jved decisively to solve several problems 
th internal and external.
On the external front senate finally 
[Ched a workable arrangement with the 
JO that has already accrued positive 
nefits in terms of good will and cooperan between the two organizations. Also, 
h election board, an independent agency 
janized after last years fiasco, is breathing 
credibility into the election procedure.
Internally, senate has adopted a plethora 
amendments which have helped senate 
il more expeditiously (sic) with pending 
islation.
Obviously senate is moving in the right 
action, although there are still more probns to be solved.
What is it then that sets this senate apart
,m the others? I think it is because of the O * S 1 1  1 ^ 1  P 1 ^1nor quality of people in the leadership Smith: One candidate who is far above the rest
sitions of senate, both in the committee
airmanships and the chairman of senate. 
Particularly, Nina Houska is to be cre[ed for the fine job she has done as chairin of senate.
This, however, was not unexpected. Nina 
s previously served effectively as both vice
air and chairman of general campus and 
brmation committee, which is charged 
th improving general campus conditions, 
e has also been chairman of the constitunal review committee, and vice-chair of 
late.
In all of these many capacities Nina has 
>rked closely with the administration. She
Letter Policy
[/I letter intended for publication must be 
led. and include the writers address and 
jione number for verification. Names will 
withheld upon request. The Tartan 
(rues the right to condense or reject any 
iter.
inas the one
liton
I am writing to share my views on the 
coming election, where we will elect a 
pw president of student government. I have 
ad the opportunity to work with all of the 
pdidates as a senator and committee 
airman.
As chairman of student senate, Nina 
fouska has proven herself as a leader who 
|n focus her efforts on the heart of a prob\ What makes Nina my choice, forpresu|nt is that she is equally effective at getting 
jsults. As students here at Camegie-Mellon, 
need an advocate that is able to see her 
pjects realized.
11 think Nina is this person.
Sincerely, 
Doug Carney, Chairman 
Academic Affairs Committee
Editor:
Tomorrow and Thursday are days of 
change. Student government elections 
always bring this promise, but the potential 
for change this year is greater than ever 
before. There is one candidate who stands 
out far above the rest: Steve Smith. Steve is 
the key to realizing the full potential of that 
change. Because of his differences, he is 
worthy of every students support.
Some of Smiths differences were clearly 
demonstrated at last Wednesdays presiden
tial debates. Throughout the evening, it was 
Smith who actually answered each question 
that was put to him; unlike either of the 
other candidates.
Miss Houska repeatedly listed activities 
she had been involved in and the accomp
lishments she had achieved. The goals she 
would strive for as president were many, but 
were often vague and were supported at 
times by inaccurate information. The goal 
of building a new student union is a fine 
one, but Houska failed to outline any 
method of achieving this goal other than the 
relatively ineffective means followed to date.
Further, she dted President Cyerts 
priority for new construction, which, 
according to Houska, was first a new fine 
arts complex, followed by a new gym, and a 
student union building. Unfortunately, this 
priority hasnt existed for at least a year 
and a half. According to the Board of Trus
tees last January, if any new buildings are to 
be built, the first will be for academic space 
and the next will be a dormitory.
Ralph Sherman, the other candidate, 
implied that his goal was to restore leader
ship to the senate; as if leadership would be a 
cure-all for the evils of student government. 
Shermans responses were general and 
lacked clarity.
Sherman had been the president of stu
dent government last year after Scott Sibley 
resigned. During that time Sherman was
not a strong leader. He was hesitant to make 
decisions, and often didnt take stands on 
issues. Specifically, Ralph wavered over 
food service decisions and action concerning 
former President Carters call for draft regis
tration. Sherman finally sponsored a senate 
resolution concerning a draft rally in 
Washington, but was reluctant to put his 
name to it. Is that the kind of leadership 
we need?
At the debate, Smith showed that he had a 
command of the issues that far surpassed the 
other candidates. He divided his concerns 
into two categories: academic affairs and stu
dent affairs. Neither of the other two candi
dates showed the organization of thought 
necessary to do this.
Each of Smiths concerns were supported 
by action plans, which resulted from his 
meeting with various university officials 
over the past few weeks and months. His 
dedication to the job could not be more 
clearly demonstrated. His concern for stu
dent issues and problems could not be more 
genuine.
Mandatory teaching evaluations are not 
part of CMU academics, and Smith feels this 
is a problem. With mandatory teaching eva
luation, according to Smith, educational 
quality would be improved. He has talked 
to faculty members who agree with his 
views. Working through the proper chan
nels to build up support for a senate recoman important step inthemendauon is 
process.
During the debate and campaign, Smith 
listed other areas of concern. They include: 
improving food service, housing, and the 
escort service; lengthening the mid-semester 
break; developing a communication skills 
center, and a campus wide fall program on 
the order of Spring Carnival; creating a new 
student union building; and discussing the 
personal computing plan, university fund
ing of the baseball and hockey clubs, and 
keeping the health office open 24 hours a 
day. In each case, Smith is interested in how 
these effect students and what can be done to 
increase the benefits students receive from 
them. Again, he has met with various peo
ple about most of these issues and is able to 
make informed decisions concerning 
actions that the student government should 
take.
His actions demonstrate his ability to 
work well with others and achieve a goal. 
His dedication and motivation are the 
prime ingredients we need to get student 
government responsive to us again.
The president of student government is 
the representative of all the students. Steve 
Smith has all the qualifications necessary to 
make up proud to have him as our 
spokesman.
Susan Yarmoff 
Jim Balsom
Break-up Morewood vandalism
Editor:
The vandalism in Morewood Gardens 
B-tower elevator is truly disturbing. Not 
only does it reflect some students lack of 
respect for public property, but it is also a 
personal insult to the campus community 
on the whole. Its hard enough to achieve a 
homey feeling in a dormitory environment,
garde! A liberal challenge to Mr. Kapner
ton
I see in the latest Tartan that Bill Kapner 
still writing articles about how dead the 
liberalism is and how liberalism has 
1 to change if it wishes to survive, 
amtain that liberalism is not only a livphilosophy but the correct model for 
onomic policy and political ethics, 
further maintain that inflation is caused
 either by government spending as much 
|)r *Jsocial welfare programs, but by deficlo cver unneeded military spending,*
loans and off-budget loan guarantees to 
businesses, and concentration of markets in 
the manufacturing, mining, transportation 
and communications sectors.
I further maintain that inflation can be 
eliminated by#price controls on concen
trated industries and deep cuts in military 
capital spending, and that the latter would 
actually improve national security.
I further maintain that social welfare can 
best be improved by government guarantees 
of employment and an adequate standard of
living (in a clean environment) for every 
citizen.
I challenge Mr. Kapner to a debate on any 
of the above subjects, or all of them. The 
debate to be public and publicly announced 
beforehand, and open to the whole CMU 
community free of charge.
If Mr. Kapner refuses, I shall have to con
clude that he is unable to back up his argu
ments or unwilling to defend them.
Barton Levenson 
Comp/ Sd Junior
but to have the residents themselves destroy
ing part of their living accomodations is 
disheartening. The elevators are dangerous 
enough. Tearing pieces of panelling off to 
expose the elevator shaft presents a real 
safety hazard.
Is it the intent of these few, violent indi
viduals to permanendy shut down this ele
vator to further inconvenience those erf us 
living on the upper floors? Or is it merely 
their inept way of forcing immediate reno
vations of the MG elevators? Surely a few 
statements to the right university officials 
will achieve the same end, but in a more 
positive manner. The seventh floor is a long 
way up when the elevator isnt working.
Still climbing the stairs, 
Laurie Elm
more letters on pages 4 8c 5

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanMarch 10, 1981
letters
Another one decides to jump into the 1 Salvador hay
of Nazi apologists! Yet it is Mr. Br 
who insists on closing his eyes to the < 
of the Duarte regime. It is Mr. Brannick'{ 
whom it is inconvenient to see that perh 
our government might do wrong, v 
refuses to see that the Salvadorian rebels a 
supported not only by Communists,! 
also by Socialists, Social Democrats, 
majority of Christian Democrats, and su 
large sectors of the population as pea 
students, workers, and yes, even small bu 
nessmen! It is Mr. Brannick who believes t 
campaign of innuendo being run by ( 
State Department, that would have 
believe, on the basis of some ill-documente 
allegations that the rebels are receiving i 
itary aid from certain countries abroad, t 
the Salvadorian rebellion is merely a i 
munist plot being run by the Soviet Uniq 
and Cuba to install some puppet regime j 
El Salvador. (And by the way, so what i 
there is any truth to these allegations < 
foreign military aid? This does not neces; 
ily make the rebellion an unpopular on 
imposed from abroad. One must e> 
who in El Salvador supports the rebellion, j 
somehow suspect that there were more i 
a few Englishmen a couple of hundred ye
Editor
So, the universitys Director of Develop
ment, Mr. Alvin P. Brannick, has decided to 
jump into the El Salvador fray, impliddy 
on the side of the junta. I would have held 
back from writing this and allowed Neil 
Wards very capable artides to speak for 
themselves, but for a reference that Mr. Bran
nick makes to Russian villagers (who) were 
able to get their first full nights sleep in 
twenty years only when the German army, 
not to be confused with Nazi brown shirts, 
captured their towns. I can only hope that 
the rest of the University administration is 
not so disgracefully ill-educated as the direc
tor of development. Perhaps Mr. Brannick 
should be sent back to the high school in 
North Hundngton Township that he loves 
so well to leam a bit of history.
I shouldnt have to repeat these facts, but 
Mr. Brannick apparently must be taught 
that the German army was the force of the 
Nazi occupation, and that it paved the way 
for the Gestapo once it had laid hold of a 
region. In fact, there were no brown shirts 
(i.e. SA) by the time the German army was 
marching outside of Germany. Whatever 
tragedies occurred in the Soviet Union 
under Stalin, whatever Nazi collaborators 
there may have been in parts of the USSR 
willing to justify the Nazi aggression, it 
remains a fact that the Nazi military occupa
tion of the Slavic countries was an act of 
sheer genodde and enslavement of others 
that has absolutely no parallel in the aberra
tions of Soviet socialism under Stalin. Wil
liam L. Shirer, hardly a friend of the Soviet 
Union, attests to the level of cruelty of the
Nazis, far in excess of anything the Soviets 
are alleged to have committed, in his Inside 
the Third Reich. To imply that the nice and 
well-meaning German army, not to be 
confused with Nazi brown shirts were 
doing good for the people who lived under 
its rule is to engage in the vilest slander and 
desecration of those eleven million Jews and 
Gentiles whom the Nazis killed in cold 
blood in the death camps, of the heros who 
fought, often house to house, in Stalingrad 
and elsewhere to drive out the genocidal 
Nazi war machine, and indeed of our own 
American troops who gave lives, limbs and 
blood at such encounters as the Battle of the 
Bulge.
But I should know better than to expect 
more of Mr. Brannick. It is only too typical 
of his brand of self-styled moderation to ulti
mately come, down against anything that 
might change the status quo for the better.. 
After saying that there is no difference 
between the John Birch Society and Mr. 
Ward, he goes on to write a letter that takes 
predsely the side that any Birchite would be 
proud to be on. Im sure that plenty of Birchites would agree with Mr. Brannicks 
apparent implication that we fought on the 
wrong side in World War II.
No doubt Mr. Brannick would have, in 
1776, written ill of those crazy radicals Paine, 
Jefferson, Franklin, and Adams, and have 
supported some moderate maintenance of 
the status quo (while perhaps deploring its 
more reactionary, proto-Birchite suppor
ters). I am sure that before the Gvil War he 
would have ranted and raved at the aboli
tionists, at the slaves who revolted (and tsk!
tsk!-killed their poor innocent masters), at 
John Brown, for their extremism and vic
timization of the slaveholders-My, my, 
now, lets not degenerate like the Yankeys 
and other arch-secessionists; lets be respecta
ble and open-minded and not call the sla
veowners mean names; have you seen the 
bodies of the poor unfortunate victims of 
Nat Tumer?-and spewed forth more hot 
air, at first posing as objective and rapidly 
degenerating into the most naked, shame
less support for a status quo that was abso
lutely criminal. What a fine good 
German Mr. Brannick would have madel 
It is so like these so-called moderates, these 
wolves in sheeps clothing, so concerned as 
they are to see the few individual human 
tragedies of every readjustment in history, to 
blind themselves to the gross human trage
dies that befall masses of people. The blind 
spots are big, and the areas of vision are 
small. Shall I remind Mr. Brannick that 
after the U.S. Revolution, Tories were sent 
packing to live a life of poverty in exile in 
Canada, their former homes and possessions 
burned? Does he condemn American inde
pendence for that?
Where is Mr. Brannicks pity for 
those who suffered so long and had no cho
ice but to rebel? Nowhere, for he would 
sooner not make the omelet than risk break
ing some eggs.
So we come at last to El Salvador. Mr. 
Brannick, who must have one of the most 
narrow-minded, one-sided points of view 
that I have seen displayed in The Tartan, 
has the gall to accuse Mr. Ward of a disho
nesty and lack of integrity equivalent to that
Ward replies on frisky buzz-word rhetoric
Editor
To Alvin P. Brannick:
Your very frisky letter has two points: that 
right and left rhetorics are essentially equi
valent, with meaningless buzz-words 
inserted, and that Im a callous bastard for 
submitting that hell is an adequate des
cription of warfare. I am sure, Brannick, 
that your homestead in Huntingdon is now 
occupied by migrating hoards, busy mount
ing their offensive on Jones and Laughlin, 
so I neednt describe war to you. My use of 
"hell implies that war is not only a horror 
to individuals but an institutionalized hor
ror of huge dimension. I offered a sarcastic 
apology to the tortured and blown-up 
because I believed that the reiteration of 
wars horrors, as the Salvadorians evoked 
them in the article, to persuade us to sponsor 
more torture and explosions, was smallminded and showed litde awareness of wars 
historical scope. No one has ever shown, to 
my satisfaction, that shipping guns to a 
trouble-spot eased suffering. There are, 
however, many horrid examples of our pol
icy of eroding the quality of life and the 
identity of nations by throwing bullets at 
problems instead of reassessing our own 
ecnomic and political values.
Down with force-feeding
Editor
I firmly believe that NO ONE should be 
deprived of his or her right to have a free 
choice. However, there are apparently some 
people who want to operate this university 
in a completely radical-even sodalisticmanner. The new proposed food plans are 
examples of this deprivation of free cho
ice. These food plans are totally unaccepta
ble to CMU students, especially those who 
are already paying through the nose to 
live in already problem-plagued, high-cost 
dormitories. With no guarantee that Presi
dent Reagan can stop inflation by next Sep
tember, CMU students will have enough 
financial problems to worry about, even 
WITHOUT this so-called $50 fee few Food 
Service!
I have expressed my strong disapproval of 
the proposed food plan, and I am certain 
that most of my fellow CMU students will 
agree with the statements presented in the 
following poems:
This baloney has a first name,.
Its O-S-C-A-R;
This baloney has a second name,
Its M-A-Y-E-R;
Oh, he wants to (force) feed us everyday, 
And take our money in every way;
Oh, Oscar Mayer, you have a way with B-AL-O-N-E-Y!!
Oh, Ken Stover 
This is not yet over,
We CMU students will never let you push us 
over
And force feed us food plans fit for Rover\!
Clay Palmer 
Freshman Physics
To the other point: is it possible that you, 
Brannick, as director of development for a 
major university with research contracts all 
over corporate America, can believe that 
your vested interest, and that of your board 
of trustees, is at the objective center? You and 
millions of Americans in your situation 
cling to the boat-people and similiar vic
tims of leftist iniquity as a justification of a 
belief-system you must defer to in order to do 
your job with self-respect. Friend, allow me: 
after we ceased our benevolent and disinter
ested policing of Vietnam, the power that 
filled the vacuum left by our withdrawl 
emerged with the stamp we set on the land 
and in the people. Vietnamese cleansweeping and racism are functions of our 
own polides. The boat-people are our own 
creation.
I met with your Mr. Sudsima, but he says 
he doesnt want to collaborate. He, too, 
thinks that rhetoric is too closely twined into 
buzz-words for the arrangement you pro
pose to be time-efficient and that, as far as 
rhetoric or buzz-words go, theres a lot more 
money in his time than in mine.
Yours, 
Neil A. Ward
Food can make a difference
Editor
The recent developments over campus 
Food Service are very important. All the stu
dents at our school have a vital stake and a 
useful force, their voice and input to student 
organizations, in the final dedsion to be 
rendered.
Let the university know how you feelwrite to the appropriate Administration 
officials, write and speak to your student 
senators.
I would like to thank both the student 
senate, for having the conviction to approve
my resolution regarding Food Service, and 
SDC for endorsing it. We can all work 
together, with established principles and get 
our fair share-we will be listened to, we can 
be heard, we can make a difference. Leader
ship cn make a difference. We cannot afford 
to wait for any decision-we must speak up 
now, and in the future, with conviction, 
principle and strength on those issues vital 
to us.
Sincerely yours, 
Ralph M. Sherman
Media experts'!
Editor
After reading Neil Wards guest colun 
on El Salvador I took two aspirin and toll 
myself maybe Mr. Ward truly didnt knot] 
the score about Marxism in Latin Americ 
After all, look at the amount of trash comin 
out on television and being printed in i 
daily papers. I mean these are views pn 
ented by media experts. Their views anda| 
quarter will get you a cup of coffee. I shou 
have put the emphasis on the word media, 
not experts. Ooops!!! Pardon my narronj 
mindedness.
Getting back to the point-Dave Tre-| 
leaven and Luis Ball came back with 
excellent, and enlightening, reply. Bravo!!!| 
All I ask Mr. Ward to do is please read the! 
Feb. 20 issue of National Review. This issue| 
contains some hard facts in an interne 
with Huber Matos. By the way, when yourej 
done, please pass the magazine to Bartonl 
Levenson (long live liberalism, how Ixij 
ing). I call his attention to the article entitled! 
A Crusade Gone Sour. If liberalism lives| 
much longer, then the South Bronx 
only be a preview of the future.
Bart Biamontfl 
Administrative System'|Stop put-downs
Editor
I am writing on reply to a letter in the Feb. 1 
24 Tartan by Barry J. Stiefel. I agree withj 
him that the new Food Service plans areI 
unfair, but he has no right to condemn] 
Mark Marsella. I have been a member' 
SDC since the beginning of the school year I 
and have heard Marks reports. I think he'Sj 
doing a very good job-he meets with Foodl 
Sevice every week and puts a lot of his tintfl 
into his committee work, and what doeshcj 
get? Pui-downs from people like YoUj 
Marks job is to report to Food Service i^j 
opinions of the students, work out ideas thal 
ate best for both, and report back t<> l^j 
students. If FckxI Service does not choose I 
do anything about what he says, there i$| 
nothing he can do about it. So, Barry 
Stiefel, instead of telling us how bud thin#! 
are, why dont you talk to Ken Stove a,KI 
Oscar Mayer yourself. And slop putting I^ j 
pie down for try ing to help you!
Y'vonne L---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1981The TartanPage 5
letters
American
Editor
In your editorial of Feb. 24, after discuss
ing two of Reagans budget cuts aimed at 
college students, you refer to the other 81 
revisions that we welcome as necessary. No 
indication is given as to whether you are 
aware of what some of these other budget 
cuts are. Let me inform you.
There is a large cut in funds for mass 
transit. Not only will this mean a further 
increase in bus fares, but it will cause a 
further deterioration in urban public transit. 
There are also proposed large cuts in solar 
energy research, an end of programs for 
energy conservation, and a scuttling of pas
senger railroad service. Together these 
would gready increase American depend
ence on oil and so they represent a serious 
attack against national security.
It is proposed to eliminate funds that pro
vide contraceptive information and abor
tions for poor people. At the same time it is 
proposed to cripple the school lunch pro
gram and other help for poor children. This
is a program to increase the number of poor 
children and then starve them. The best that 
can be said for such a proposal is that it is 
insane.
Not only is support for collegt education 
to be cut but also support for the public 
schools. This is extremely serious because of 
the crisis in public education in our cities. If 
these cuts go through it is probable that 
most of our major cities will be without a 
viable public education system by 1984.
It is proposed to make significant cuts in 
funds for health care although our country 
already lags far behind most western coun
tries in this respect.
What is to happen to all the money that 
was targeted for these programs? It is all to 
be dumped into totally useless Pentagon 
projects. The best that can be said for some 
of these new projects is that they are boon
doggles designed to pay off campaign con
tributors. More sinister are the funds
designed to aid dictators, such as that of El 
Salvador, engage in mass murder. But most 
of the Pentagon projects serve to accelerate 
the arms race and thus increase the danger of 
nuclear war.
In summary', Mr. Reagans program is a 
serious attack against the American people. 
It should be welcomed by no one.
Sincerely, 
Lincoln Wolfenstein 
University Professor
Cut off the U.S. aid to El Salvadors junta
continued from page 4 
ago who thought that, because the Ameri
can colonies received arms from France, the 
American Revolution was nothing more 
than a French plot to impose a French 
puppet government on them.) It is Mr. 
Brannick who thinks that Somoz is just 
some code work to be bandied about by 
some mythical Communist propagandists 
instead of recognizing how the person with 
that name ran a whole country like a private
Sleeping baggers need help
Editor
During April, the Admissions Office will 
have a group of prospective students partici
pating in one of our biggest recruiting 
eftorts--Sleeping Bag Campaigns. Students 
visiting campus for the Spring Campaigns 
have been admitted to the University and 
must decide whether to enroll. Your help in 
talking with these students and presenting 
CMU to them can be a determining factor in 
their decision.
We would like to ask all current under
graduates to host students in their dorm or 
fraternity rooms. Spring campaigns typi
cally attract large groups of students to cam
pus. Your help would be greatly 
appreciated.
Hosting a sleeping bagger requires only 
that you provide a space on your floor and a 
receptive attitude that will help insure a 
beneficial experience for the prospective stu
dent. We will notify the prospective student 
that you have many academic responsibili
ties and that they will have to fend for them
selves. They will be provided with many 
ideas for activities.
Students arrive on campus on Sunday
between 3 and 5 p.m., register in the Admis
sions Office and are then escorted to your 
room to meet you and get settled in. During 
the remainder of Sunday they tour the cam
pus and attend an evening meeting. They 
should be back at your room at about 10 
p.m., ready to get a true taste of what its like 
to spend an evening at CMU.
The two Sleeping Bag Campaigns are on 
April 5 and 6 and April 12 and 13. These 
dates do not conflict with either Easter Sun
day or Spring Carnival Weekend.
If you wish to be a host, please stop by the 
Admissions Office (Warner Hall 111) at 
your convenience and fill out a host 
response sheet.
Many thanks to those students who have 
been so helpful in previous campaigns by 
hosting students, escorting students to 
rooms, or sharing their CMU experiences 
with prospective students.
Evaluations of hosts have been very com
plimentary of jheir efforts to make baggerc 
feel at home. These efforts are sure to help 
attract quality students to CMU.
Wayne Bond 
Admissions Counselor
plantation, successful for so long only 
because he was supported by our govern
ment. Like the previous generation of good 
Germans, who thought, Those Jews! 
Theyre all Communists anyway and proba
bly deserve whatever theyre getting, and 
then didnt bother to inquire any further, he 
must think, Those Salvadoran trouble
makers! Always complaining Nobody in 
his right mind who is not a Communist 
propagandist would support them, and 
proceeds to write the trash that we saw in last 
weeks Tartan (Feb. 24) against Neil Wards 
impolite raising of some painful questions 
about American foreign policy.
Very well, then. Mr. Brannick is entided 
to his own really Rip Van Winkle-ish 
beliefs in the myths of the Cold War era of 
thirty years ago. As for me, I would prefer to 
side with such obviously blind Communist 
dupes as West German Chancellor Helmut
Schmidt, Austrian Premier Bruno Kreisky, 
Mexican President Jose Lopez Portrillo, 
Rev. Andrew Young, the British Labour 
Party, the Canadian Government, the Pana
manian Government, the Roman Catholic 
Church, and the Socialist International, all 
of whom, not having had the benefit of Mr. 
Brannicks enlightening comments, remain 
so mired in ignorance as to foolishly sup
port the Salvadoran National Democratic 
Revolutionary Front. In addition, I would 
urge all those who share my naive support 
for the vast majority of the Salvadoran peo
ple to write to their senators and representa
tives, urging support for H.R. 1509, a bill 
that has been introduced by Reps. Gern 
Studs, Barbara Mikulski, and Robert Edgar 
that would cut off U.S. aid to the Salvadoran 
junta.
Daniel M. Rosenblurn
Secular humanism is relevant
Editor
This past Wednesday at CMU, Pitt doc
toral candidate Robert Wauzzinski began a 
three part series on the history and effects of 
secular humanism on Western society.
Secular humanism is not to be confused 
with humanitarianism, but is instead 
defined as the idea popularized during the 
Renaissance and the Enlightenment that 
man can free himself from bondage through 
the power of his own reason.
This radical departure from previous 
Western thought has continued to this day, 
although many (including Mr. Wauzzinski) 
have questions about whether humanism 
has been effective in dealing with the probThree critics rave about Tartan article
The following responses were all 
submitted by members of the Rave-Ups in 
response to Paul Smiths article, The RaveUps Go West (Feb. 17).
Editor
Hey, I read that story Paul Smith wrote 
bout us arKj jt didnt happen that way. 
Heres what really happened.
We drove to the pier at Santa Monica. The 
ighi was foggy, dark and dull; in the 
^stance the cries of gulls, squeak, squeak. It 
"as only Georges shoes on the boardwalk. 
^ e bared our face to Balboas La Pacifica, 
y zits got worte after that.
Do a cartoon voice, someone said. I 
hacked the bush with my guitar and out 
-^pped a hand holding a record contract.
^ We lived in West Hollywood not far from 
Baumans Chinese; my hands are the same 
jze as Dick Van Dykes. We walked to the 7- 
even together (whenever we werent 
gntng autographs, record contracts or the 
ast of fractured skiers falling all around us) 
fading the pastel dragnet. People on the 
treels Were nice and called us by name and 
^ied mirrors at crotch level, 
theyre not real, someone said, 
h s all done with mirrors.
I looked over my shoulder  George was
being chased by four faggots in four red 
sports cars; Jimmers face was being 
jammed into hot wax by a smiling Madame 
Tussaud; and Victor was wondering if he 
was really there and whether he really did 
graduate from the College of Fine Aits in 
1979. Something was wrong. I grabbed a 
crotch-level mirror from one of Jimmers 
fans, checked my own crotch, pulled down 
the zipper  and out came Paul Smith.
Sincerely 
Michael Kaniecki
Dear younz:
Everybody thinks you want to be 
somebodys hero(es); when all you want to 
do is leave home.
Jimmer Podrasky
Dear Folks:
Hi, Cans!
Since that wild and crazy article, the 
mails been flowing in in a steady torrent, a 
seemingly unstoppable flow. But Ive gotta 
break the news: No more sautograph 
requests!
Anyway, being a stars been terrific so far. 
Youns should all try a leave of absence in 
Hollywood. Studios, beach bunnies, sun n 
fun, oil fields. Its even got a flavor like home
 like a bunch of Monroevilles.
But it means a lot of tough work. The car 
scene took four cuts before our director, Bob 
McGrath, was content! The play scenes 
were pretty hot, too, suspended six feet in 
steamy air like four high-strung Muses. Yep, 
they really make you slave.-
But die pay is great. We had one erf the 
best house-husbands this side erf Venice 
(Danny Zippi, one of my star friends), not to 
mention the most potent tall Red Bud and 
Big Sur. And Warner Bros., recording 
studios, our star Engineer Buddy Steve 
Pouliot. New faces/places penultimately 
unseen by me, rockin n rollin and dancin 
the chocolate bunny.
We even saw the pastel dragnet. San 
Francisco has to be the most fab fairyland 
since serotonin inhibitors.
And alas, fans, I must bid a sad and fond 
adieu to this Eastern homeland. Were for 
the healthy west  no more sallow skins, 
runny snots and purple encrustations! 
Twenty years of swimming in this sceptic 
tank is long enough for a while!!
Well see you at the movies!
I am Your new hero George M 
A Rave-Up
P.S.  Obviously I dont spend all my time 
on Peres and Tequila.
lems of the past, and whether it will be an 
adequate philosophy for a troubled present 
and future.
These lectures are sponsored by InterVarsity Christian Fellowship. Far from 
being a session of fanatical sermonizing (as 
some I think suspected) the first talk was an 
open, honest appraisal of humanism from 
an admittedly Christian but intellectually 
credible point of view.
The fact is that humanism as a philo
sophy contains grave contradictions with 
which no one is dealing. Another fact is that 
the Christian faith is genuinely relevant to 
issues of the twentieth century, but its 
followers must face these issues and examine 
what they believe if their spoken allegience 
is to have any real meaning to their lives and 
the lives of others.
Mr. Wauzzinski will give two more lec
tures: Humanism Divided on Wednesday 
March 11, and Our Response to Huma
nism on Wednesday March 18. Both will 
be held in Doherty Hall 2315 at 7 p.m. There 
is no charge for admission. As with last 
Wednesdays lecture there will be ample 
opportunity for questions and discussion. I 
recommend that everyone attend these rele
vant lectures.
Linda E. Stuck rath 
BFA Music *81 
UFA Music Education *82
Write on, Bill
Editor
Bill Kapner should be congratulated on 
his article, "The New Liberalism. As a 
long-time proponent of realistic solutions to 
our problems, it is heartwarming to observe 
his refocus" efforts embrace some tradition
ally conservative positions cm the issues.
While your proposed solutions are far 
from original, Mr. Kapner, your recognition 
of the "New Realism is long overdue.
Sincerely, 
James Gibson

---------------------------------------------------

The 1981 1984(Cu is 
finished! They will be 
distributed no later than 
May 1, 1981.
If you want to share in 
the 1981 "everyday" 
experience, order your 
1984(Cu Monday through 
Thursday in the Skibo 
gray matter between 11 
a.m. and 4 p.m.
re8nu t Paiaa
Funded by your activities

---------------------------------------------------

^_________________________________________________March 10, 1981The TartanPage 7
Election Board fines senate debate imposters
by Maura Farrell
Last Thursday, three students were fined 
$50 each for violating the election rules 
adopted by student senate.
At the senate sponsored presidential 
debate last Wednesday night, it was brought 
to the attention of Bob Holste, chair of the 
senate rules committee, that. the person 
debating as Frank Reese was an impostor. 
After the debate among Nina Houska, 
Ralph Sherman, Steve Smith and Reese 
was over, Holste and Tartan Editor Richard 
Gorelick confronted the student posing as 
Reese and asked him for some type of 
identification. He was unable to produce 
any, and refused an offer to retrieve any from 
his room, claiming he had somewhere to
ga  ,Holste explained that he then checked last
years freshman pic book, and found that the
person at the debate was definitely not
Reese. Later in the evening John Seymour,
Reeses campaign manager, brought Holste
a photocopy of a Vali-Dine card that had
Reeses name on it, but the photo was too
dark and blurred to idenufy him.
Based on this series of events, Holste
recommended to the Election Board that
Reeses name be removed from the ballot
nd that he be fined along with Seymour
nd the impostor, later identified as Tom
cCarthy, a freshman art major.
Rule 5-B of the regulations governing
tudent government elections states that,
Any action by a candidate or his supporters
hich compromises the conduct of a fair
lection will result in disciplinary action by
Le Elecuon Board, subject to approval by
e University Disciplinary Committee
emphasis added).
The Board decided that in sending a
rson to represent Reese without stating
that he was not Reese, and then by lying to 
cover it up, the three had compromised the 
elecuon and disrupted the elecuon process.
When asked why he did not appear at the 
debate, Reese told the Elecuon Board that he 
had to work. Seymour later explained 
that he was under the impression that if 
Reese could not be at the debate, no one 
could represent him. Rather than not 
participate in this important campaign 
event, they decided to send McCarthy as 
Reese. We would have put Toms 
(McCarthy) name on the (elecuon) petition 
if we had known Frank was going to have 
scheduling problems, said Seymore 
The whole thing started out as a joke, 
added Reese, who wore handcuffs at the 
hearing, which he referred to as a kangaroo 
court. He also said he thought the Elecuon 
Board was saying to him, were extracting a 
pound of flesh because you made us look 
bad.
We didnt think we were breaking any 
rules, said Seymour, who interpreted rule 
5-B as referring only to the two days on 
which the voting actually took place. The 
members of the Board explained to him that 
the rule in question, as well as all of the 
rules, were meant to cover the entire election 
and campaign period.
Reese and Seymour also argued that they 
could not be told what attitude to take 
toward the election. The Board responded 
by saying the candidates could take any 
attitude (they) pleased as long as they did 
not violate the rules of the elecuon.
The worst aspect of the entire incident 
was that they lied, said Holste. Beyond a 
shadow of a doubt they lied.
The Boards decision came after almost 
an hour of discussion among Reese, 
Seymour, the Election Board, and several 
students, most of whom were members of
senate. In addition to the fine and removal of 
Reeses name from the ballot, they told 
Reese he must submit a letter of apology to 
Election Board chairperson Beth Bangor, 
which will be published in a future issue of 
The Tartan.
Regarding the debate, Seymour said, We 
got caught at it. He also said he has 
contacted Dean Swank to set up a review of 
the case by the UDC in an effort to get the 
fine revoked.
Both he and Reese have said they will not 
pay the fine.
Seymour explained to The Tartan that 
the purpose of Reeses campaign was to 
point out the\ limitations of the other
by Alice Alfonsi
The Student Dormitory Council elected 
new officers at their meeting on February 25. 
We have a really good executive board, 
said newly elected president Mark Marsella, 
a sophomore Electrical Engineer. A lot of 
freshmen, which shows ambition and a big 
advantage for the future.
The new officers for SDC are: president, 
Mark Marsella; vice president of the hill 
sub-council, Stacey Matz; vice president of 
the Morewood sub-council, Carol Goldburg; Ueasurer, Yvonne Chi; secretary, Noel 
Wolf.
Were trying to get the administration to 
deal with us, explained Marsella. In the 
past they made up their minds and then 
came to us. We want them to come to us 
first. Marsella seemed concerned mainly 
with communiations between die adminis
tration and the students. For example, in the 
recent dispute over the new food service 
proposals Marsella was not concerned
candidates. Throughout the debate 
McCarthy, the impostor, claimed that the 
other candidates did not represent the true 
desires of the apathetic majority of the 
schools population.
Seymour also outlined his candidates 
game plan; to win the election by popular 
vote, but to lose enough votes by violating 
election rules to prevent Reese from actually 
becoming president.
These tactics would include exceeding the 
expenditures limit by one dollar, removing 
the other candidates posters in front of 
Tartan reporters, and posting derogatory 
posters of the other candidates.
whether the ideas generated were from SDC 
members or other students. He feels that the 
most important thing is that a better plan is 
formulated and that the communication 
lines are open.
When asked whether he liked Housings 
re-classifying of rooms, Marsella replied, 
yes and no. SDC drew up most of the plan 
in this case. Marsella felt that some of the 
wrong rooms were reduced and others wer
ent as a result of measuring problems. 
However, on the brighter side, the confusion 
in the old plan was cleared up, he said. We 
took a classification system that no one 
understood and made it better. In the old 
plan two square feet could change the classi
fication (and price) of your room.
SDCs interaction with other groups at 
CMU has been productive, according to Mar
sella. Here Marsella suesses, Id like to see 
the best programming on campus as possi
ble.
continued on page 9
SDC elects executive board

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanMarch 10, 1981
Vandalism costs University over $5000
by Maura Farrell
Repairs due to vandalism have averaged 
over $1000 for the past five months. These 
figures were recently released' in a report 
compiled by Charles McShane, 
Maintenance Manager, at the request of 
Fred Rogers, Director of Business and 
Finance.
In addition, McShane compiled a list of 
the twenty-five most common vandalism 
problems at CMU. This list included 
"vehicles driving on lawns, removal of 
decorative trim on buildings, putting holes
Alumni donations
by Greg Pisocky
The student Phon-A-Thon Competition 
raised $30,686 after one month of soliciting 
donations from alumni all across the 
country. Participating in the January 26 to 
February 26 competition were A Phi O, 
Kappa Alpha Theta, the Kiltie Band (3 
nights service), Lambda Sigma (2 nights 
service), the Metals Club, Pi Lambda Phi, 
Spring Carnival Committee, Theta Xi, and 
Delta Delta Delta (3 nights service).
These groups were treated to pizza and 
soda for about an hour before the calling 
began. Afterwards they were ushered into 
the Skibo boardroom, where a telephone 
bank was set up, and made two hours worth 
of calls to alumni. Following the 
telephoning session, participants were 
given one free phone call to anywhere in the 
United States.
One hundred dollars was given to the 
organization that collected the most pledges 
and another hundred was given for the most 
dollars pledged. Hie Kiltie Band won both
in ceilings, and using roof areas for parties. 
According to McShane, after a new roof 
was installed in E-tower of Morewood 
Gardens, a group of students managed to 
get up to the roof, where they had a cook-out 
and burned a hole in the new roof.
Both Rogers and McShane are concerned 
with what they describe as an apparent lack 
of pride of university property among 
students. McShane asked,What can we do 
to enlist the support of the student body to 
prevent vandalism?
Rogers is eager to hear students opinions
about this problem. He believes that the
awards by obtaining 277 pledges for a total 
of $7082. A second place prize of $50 dollars 
was also awarded to the Delta Delta Delta 
sorority for each of these categories for 
obtaining $5808 from 233 pledges.
During each night of the contest an 
individual competition was also held. Gift 
certificates at The Listening Post record 
store were given to students who obtained 
the most pledges and the greatest amount of 
money.
Susan Stitt, Director of Annual Giving 
Development Department and Fund 
Raising, explained the significance of the 
campaign. These charitable contributions 
are important. We rely heavily on them, 
considering 50% of the cost of an education 
is paid by tuition. This campaign was 
aimed at the so called hard prospects, 
people who would not have given had they 
not been contacted. Stitt expressed her 
gratitude on behalf of the Development 
Department for the volunteer effort. She said 
continued on page 20
most effective way to police the vandalism 
problem is through the students. He and 
McShane both agree that the damage is 
being done by a minority of CMU students. 
Rogers commented, the students 
ultimately pay.
When property is damaged or stolen on 
campus, the bill goes to Physical Plant. 
Vandalism is paid for by the endowment 
grants and gifts given to the university 
which could instead be used for capital 
improvements, such as new furniture.
McShane explained that if students in a 
certain department are obviously 
responsible for damage, Physical Plant 
sends the bill to that department; 
however,often there is not enough money in 
the department to pay for the vandalism so 
the bill returns to Physical Plant.
Damage to dormitories is paid tor 
through the Housing department, which 
can partly account for the rise in housing 
costs. If there is damage to a particular floor 
or tower, the residents of that area are 
charged for the damage, a policy which 
Rogers described as fairer than spreading 
the cost among the entire population of oncampus residents.
McShane also mentioned the danger 
involved in the amount of vandalism which 
occurs at CMU. Fire extinguishers are 
frequently damaged; the extinguishers are 
inspected every month, although 
Pennsylvania law only requires them to be 
inspected annually. In addition to the fireextinguisher problem, McShane described 
an incident which occured last year in 
the Fine Arts building; a student 
climbed up to the roof and fell through 
a skylight.
Mr. Rogers says that he is sensitive to the 
loyalty between CMU students; he realizes 
that they are hesitant to turn in friends but
in 5 months
photo by Chuck Chickade!
CMU vandalism: an expression of hostility?
he believes student action is the most 
effective method of solving the problem.
In addition to the problem of students 
vandalizing the campus, there has been one 
incident in which a faculty member 
damaged a new movie screen in a classroom. 
Concerned students met with President 
Cyert about the incident, who told Rogers 
that he wanted the professor to be billed 
Rogers and Cyert arc both 
very concerned about this problem because 
they are afraid that students may be 
reluctant to report professors.
Rogers and McShane reiterated then 
desire for student feedback on this problem. 
Both are willing to listen to anyone who has 
suggestions.
Phon-A-Thon raises $30,686
NOW ON SALE
AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY: FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT
82 Photos
Monumental life story of the man who trans
formed the face of the modern world. Tells of his 
youthful plunge into the creative ferment of 1890s 
Chicago; his creation of revolutionary homes, 
churches, skyscrapers and factories; his friend 
ships with Carl Sandberg, Alexander Woollcott 
and others; his anguish over the deadly fire that 
destroyed his renowned home, Taliesin; plus his 
visionary ideas about the shape of the future; 
more. 620 pages.
Men st i 17 fl Only $5.98
*<585
Pub. at $19.95
WHOS WHO IN ARCHITECTURE:
From 1400 to the Present
Ed. by J,M. Richards 
Over 250 Photos and Ulus.,
16 Pages in Full Color
Invaluable reference work for all those 
interested in architects and their build mgs incl. over 500 stimulating and infor 
mative entries. Puts into historical 
perspective the works of both major 
and minor figures in the field, from the 
Renaissance to the present Alphabet i 
cally arranged 7'4 x 9V
Only $9.98
c-mu book/toreFRESHMEN
3-Year Full Tuition 
Scholarships
Available Through 
Army Officer Commissioning Program
(Current Participation is Not Required)
Application Period: Now
Eligibility:
Selection Criteria:
Benefits:
Scholarship begins School Year 1981
 3.0 cumulative Q.P.A. or better
 Full-time student
 Be less than 25 years of age on 
30 June of graduating year
Based primarily on evaluation of aca
demic achievement, leadership potential 
and degree of success in college.
Pays all tuition costs, fees, supplies, 
and books and provides $100 per 
month financial assistance.
For further information, contact hsats<> As>f 
Av<fvbT hsrvo<vugvWWl> O><Evbf<tN at SHLRV IC,u 
2204 S.lWWv.tVT lb visit our office at Margaret 
Morrison Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1981The TartanPage 9
'solutions passed for UFS, libraries, Baseball Club
Resolutions regarding Food Service, the 
ibraries, and the Baseball Club were passed 
. February 24th student senate meeting, 
jie reolution sent to Food Service, sponored by Senator Ralph Sherman (H&SS), 
vas aimed at informing the administration 
senates disapproval of the mandatory 
luirements of the 1981-82 Food Service 
proposals. (See Senate Resolution)
United Fraternal Organization (UFO) 
sident, Tom Joseph, objected to the reso
lution, saying, They (Food Service) havent 
Len made a decision yet. Joseph, who had 
net earlier in the day with Mayer at a Presi
dent's Student Adviosry Committee meetadded that Food Service was 
jntemplating a change in the Food Service 
3lan anyway.
Bob Carr (GSIA) called the resolution an 
flection tactic on Shermans part. Carr was 
everely reprimanded for the accusation by 
jurie Elm (CIT), Doug Carney (CFA), and 
jb Holste (CIT), the parliamentarian, 
vho found a specific reference in Roberts 
lules forbidding the type of accusation of 
lotives that Carr made.
Jeff Pitchford also objected to the resolu[ion, claiming that Senate did not have 
pnough information about the Food Service 
slides to warrant such an action.
Bob Holste vividly presented a support
ing view for the resolution, saying that If 
Lou see a ball rolling down a hill coming at 
lou, you dont have to wait for it to hit you
to say anything. Other senators agreed 
with Holste, pointing out that the resolu
tion merely stated a set of principles, and did 
not refer to any specific policy.
Elm, Senate Vice-Chairman, presented a 
resolution to be sent to Thomas Michalak, 
Director of University Libraries, requesting 
that the hours of both the Hunt and the 
Engineering and Science libraries be 
extended to twenty-four hours a day, seven 
days a week. The resolution stated that the 
present hours are a tremendous disservice 
to motivated students (who) attempt to take 
their academics seriously. Elms resolution 
also stated that if book checkouts were not 
permitted between midnight and 9 AM the 
extended hours would require minimum 
adjustment because work-study students 
could be employed to monitor studying stu
dents. This resolution was passed.
Rules Committee chairman, Bob Holste, 
and Rich Hanusek, Finance chairman, pres
ented a resolution which asked that the Uni
versity take over the financial responsibilty 
of the Baseball Club. This resolution was 
prompted by the Baseball Clubs need for a 
paid coach after the Senate Finance Com
mittee terminated funds for coaches. Jeff 
Pitchford, former SDC president, disagreed 
with the resolution because it did not 
include the Frisbee, Archery, or Hockey 
Clubs. Jody Daniels countered Pitchfords 
objection by commenting that the Baseball 
Club expressed a need for a coach, while 
the other clubs havent. This resolution 
was passed 19-2-1. .
(For complete text of Baseball Resolution, 
see page 32.)
.eeses candidacy terminated
[ontinued from page 7
Although Reeses campaign has been 
irminated, the group is intending to 
iromote McCarthy as a write-in candidate. 
McCarthy was able to pose successfully 
trough part of the debate because no one in 
he debates small attendance knew either 
McCarthy or Reese. It never occurred to us 
) check his I.D., explained Holste. 
Gorelick, the debates moderator, recalled 
ter what should have been telltale signs. I 
sked Reese (McCarthy) if he had prepared 
is election statement for The Tartan. At the 
me, I attributed his nebulous response to 
aaciness, when it was actually due to
ignorance. He obviously had never even 
heard anything about the election 
statement.
Although suspicion about Reeses 
identity arose in the middle of the debate, 
Holste decided to wait until the debate was 
over before approaching Reese (McCarthy), 
in case the debator was actually Reese.
When Reese (McCarthy) was finally 
confronted by Holste, Gorelick, and Tartan 
photographer Robert Zusman, he refused to 
pose for Zusman, holding his debate notes 
in front of his face, and shouting no 
pictures, no pictures.
Build The Best!
Tandems present success is built on a fail-safe 
computer that will not lose data if any part of the 
system goes down.
Your career can get off to a sure-fire" start with a 
company that has grown to $ 120 million in just five 
short years.
If you are going to be a Computer Scientist, then 
discuss the career potential you can share with 
only us.
Sign up for a scheduled interview at your Place
ment Office now. We will be on campus on:
Tuesday, March 17th
We offer a place for you to grow through challenge 
in a truly unique workingenvironment with impres
sive benefits.
is an equal opportunity employer
SENATE RESOLUTION
Complete text of senate resolution 
submitted by Ralph Sherman on February 
24, 1981 and sent to Food Service.
Whereas the students of Camegie-Mellon 
University cannot be held accountable for 
the unfortunate condition of campus Food 
Service, and
Whereas as long as the operations of this 
University are to be measured in terms of 
business efficiency, campus Food Service 
must (therefore) operate with proper busi
ness techniques therefore be it
Resolved, by the students of CamegieMellon University, in Student Senate 
assembled, that we strenously object:
1) To the use of any plan which requires 
student purchase of Food Service in order to 
support campus Food Service.
2) To paying for goods we may neither 
want nor receive.
Respectfully submitted 
Ralph M. Sherman
Students support Larson
by Alice Alfonsi
Members of the Architecture student 
government submitted a petition support
ing Ame Larson to Professor Lou Sauer, 
head of the Department of Architecture. The 
petition signed by 222 of the estimeated 250 
undergraduates reads as follows:
We the undersigned, as concerned stu
dents of the Department of Architecture,w
Steinberg named 
Baker Chair
continued from page 1
Other highlights in his career include his 
service as Dean of Margaret Morrison Carne
gie College from 1960 to 1973. From 1965 to 
1975 he was Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences.
Not one to rest on his laurels, Steinberg 
continues his energetic pace. He teaches 
undergraduates in addition to his work in 
the Communications Design Center. The 
Center, another program at CMU in which 
his involvement constitutes a major contri
bution, combines the disciplines of English, 
psychology, design, and computer science 
in order to solve problems associated with 
information processing via written com
munication.
Steinberg has also written and edited sev
eral books and monographs as well as arti
cles on modem literature, the teaching of 
English, and communication in business 
and industry.
ould like to voice our strong opinion that 
Ame Larson is well qualified as a studio 
professor, openly trusted as our student advi
sor and as a full time administrator. It is our 
wish that he be asked to remain here in these 
capacities.
Professor Ame Larson according to Sauer 
has gone through a series of reviews. His 
present position is that of special faculty 
appointment. The last committee that was 
convened to review him for a special faculty 
appointment was last spring. This ad hoc 
committeesdecision was that his role 
should not be extended from his present 
position. Sauer felt that normal processes 
were gone through, but because he wished 
Larson to remain as an instructor, he offered 
him a part-time position, as a studio critic.
Larson feels that he is being eased out 
of the Department of Architecture. For one 
reason or another, commented Larson, 
Lou Sauer wants to restructure the admi
nistrative set-up here...he has stated that he 
does not believe I have the qualification for 
full-time employment. Larsons intention 
has been to apply for a tenure track position.
An advertisement issued by the Architec
ture Department states, The Department of 
Architecture at CMU is seeking applicati
ons...candidates should hold an advanced 
degree, have experience in the management 
of the undergraduate and graduate curricula 
and faculty governance and demonstrate the 
ability to inform their teaching by their 
experience and scholarship...
Larson does not have a masters degree but 
he feels that the masters degree should not 
make the distinction between who is quali
fied and who is not.
Fluor Mining & Metals
ON THE MOVE
Fluor Mining and Metals is an engineering/construction 
company offering full engineering services to the mineral 
industry in the U.S. and abroad.
Our Geological, Mining and Process groups provide an 
integrated systems approach to mine and plant design. 
We currently have permanent positions available for 
Geologists, Applied Mathematicians, Mining Engineers 
and Metallurgists with a strong FORTRAN computer 
background to work on development and implementation 
of systems for geostatistical ore reserve estimation, mine 
planning using operations research, and computer aided 
metallurgical process design.
To apply for these positions, or for further information 
about Fluor Mining and Metals, send your resume to: 
R.E. Haney, Fluor Mining and Metals, Inc., Dept. SFC-4648, 
10 Twin Dolphin Drive, Redwood City, California 94065.
Fluor is proud to be an equal opportunity employer.
FLUOR
? MINING & METALS, INC.

---------------------------------------------------

Becoming a Link Engineer has made a big difference in my career. I wanted a challenge. And the chance to design something exciting. Link gives me that chance and more.
Modem simulation technology was bom at our company more than fifty years ago and ever since then we've been the industry's leader in the design and manufacturing of aviation and aerospace training devices. Our trainers can realistically fly you from New York to LA and Houston to the moon without ever leaving their hangar ______________
Link
 oms* a it SIN C E R amwt 
Binghamton. New York 13902
Wre looking for graduates with degrees in Engineering (EE, ME, IE) Aero and Computer Engineering. See us on campus or contact A. C.Es worthy  Link Division o1 Singer, Binghamton, New York (607) 772-356L
Link Simulation is Future Engineering
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 
FRIDAY MARCH 20,1981
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
Page 10The TartanMarch 10, 1981
Student posters create controversy around campus
by Monica J. Cellio
Posters protesting next years proposed 
food service plans have been decorating the 
outside walls of Morewood E-Tower for the 
past two weeks. These signs, five in all, have 
ranged from simple protests, as in the case of 
the first sign, shove $50 Food Service, to 
statements comparing the quality of Food 
Services food to local hookers. The first 
three signs were removed by security, but the 
last two remained until tom and battered by 
winds.
After the appearance of the first sign, 
Food Service called security to have it 
removed. When it appeared that every sign 
was going to be replaced, Jerry Marks,
Director of Residence Life, instructed R.A.s 
to remove any obscene signs. Marks claims, 
however, that he is not attempting to halt 
the protest. He stated that if the signs are not 
obscene they will be allowed to stay, but that 
some of them were pretty obscene and 
seemed gross to a lot of people.
Although 3-E has been the source of the 
signs, Marks feels that they express the views 
of all the University students.
Scott Strayer, a 3-E resident who is partly 
responsible for posting the signs, says he is 
upset with the apparent disregard for the 
first amendment. He says, If The Tartan
can print what they want and Senate can 
post signs with Has CMU got you by the
balls printed on them, why cant 3-E put up
signs?
The Senate poster to which Strayer 
referred, emenating from the Academic 
Affairs committee, caused a small 
controversy of its own. The poster, along 
with a leaflet mailed to all dorm residents, 
were the first part of the Senates Academic 
Response Program (ARP)
These posters disappeared as soon as we 
put them up, claimed Academic Affairs 
chairman Doug Carney. Some posters were 
removed by concerned faculty members and 
Physical Plant employees, while others were
taken by students as potential collectors 
items.
At the senate meeting following the 
posters circulation around campus, the 
SDC representative expressed his personal 
affrontry concerning the posters and leaflets, 
claiming he did not realize the offensive 
phrase, Has CMU got you by the balls? 
would actually appear on the poster.
Carney defended the posters, asserting 
that the Academic Response Program was 
designed to initiate campus response, and in 
that respect was successful.
Tartan transcripts of the debate indicate 
that Carney was explicit in explaining the 
content of the poster to Senate.
Computer It was my take off to a great future.

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1981The TartanPage 11
CMU residents denied 50% discount phone rates
by Melody Mazzie
Paul DellaPorta spends $35-50/month on 
phone calls to his girlfriend in 
Philadelphia. He is only one of many 
students who would benefit by MCI, a 
telephone network that runs on a system of 
microwaves.
Unfortunately, MCI runs only on touch 
*tone telephones, and Housing will not 
pennit DellaPorta to install a touch tone 
phone in his room.
In order to hook into the MCI computer, 
a student need only to enter his four digit 
code and the area code and the phone 
number of the person to w hom he is calling.
By skipping over Bell Telephones lines, 
MCI cuts long distance rates by 50%.
According to Gerald Dalton, Housing 
Administrator, CMU contracted with Bell 
Telephone in 1977 for the cheapest phones 
available, which were the dial tone wall 
phones. Because CMU is on the centrex 
system, students are billed for message units^ 
and long distance calls only. The university 
takes care of the service charge.
The problem, according to Dalton, is the 
hassle that would be involved in billing 
students separately for additional service 
charges incurred by having a touch tone 
phone. According to Bell Telephone, the
cost of a touch phone is now the same as the 
cost of a dial tone, but there is an MCI service 
charge of $5/month that could be charged to 
the university.
The equipment, explained Dalton, 
belongs to Bell Telephone. We dont own 
any phones. If a student with a touch tone 
later moves out of the room, it could, Dalton 
believes, result in an administrative 
nightmare.
There is the possibility of giving the 
students the option of choosing phone types 
in the future, but in Daltons opinion it 
would necessitate a fairly complicated 
billing system. The student would have to
buy the touch tone himself, remove and 
store the dial tone phone, and then replace 
the dial tone phone if he ever permanetly 
leaves the room. The university would then 
have the problem of billing students who 
neglected to replace the old phones.
Dalton feels that some re-negotiating will 
be possible when computers are put into the 
dorm rooms, since the computers also work 
off the phone lines.
In the meantime, students are left to battle 
with Bell Telephone and limit their calls to the 
after 11 hours, when the rates are less 
expensive.
Gulf Requiting Representatwes on campus: 
February 23,1981 
March 17,1981 
April 9,1981

---------------------------------------------------

Saturday, March 14th 
8:00 p.m. CMU GYM
Tickets now on sale at:
CMU Information desk 
National Record Mart 
U. of Pittsburgh
$3.00 with CMU ID; $5.00 off campus

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

________________________Features.
Beaux Arts Ball
1300 costumed CMUers party at Le Bal Fantasie straight through damn
by Maureen Brennan
The last time that thirteen-hundred peo
ple have done something together on this 
campus? The Beaux Arts Ball, thats when.
BAB, the largest scale social event ever 
sponsored at CMU, attracted more than
0ne-quarter of the undergraduate student 
body. Thats onehelluva party. Add to that 
the hundreds who planted themselves in 
strategic locations on campus to watch the 
parade to the Fine Arts building, and those 
who shared in the extensive pre-ball
celebrating.
Partiers later tried 
to sort out what they 
imagined happened, 
what really happ
and what they 
wished had happened.
The theme was Fantasy, and between
10 p.m. Saturday Feb. 28 and 6 a.m. Sunday, 
thirteen-hundred people devoted themselves 
to fulfilling theirs.
Those who didnt attend the gala affair, 
but who couldnt resist walking by Fine 
Arts, caught an eye and earful. Instead of the 
usml bizarre attire fine arts folk pride them
selves in, they saw everything from two 
walking glider planes to a body painted 
entirely from head to foot in brown with 
only its vital organs covered.
As passersby walked the length of the 
building, instead of hearing the rehearsal of
a violinist fade into a soloists daily exercises, 
they could have heard a bit of the swing 
band, the CMU jazz band, Gene Corbin, 
Norm Nodini, or the DJ who played 
throughout Fine Arts, throughout the 
night. And if they were around at 4:30 a.m. 
they may have even heard a bit of the RaveUps.
Even those who attended who were not on 
drugs might well have thought someone 
slipped one in on them when they later tried 
to sort out what they imagined happened, 
what really happened, and what they may 
have wished had happened. The drinks, the 
crowds, and the noise bombarded the senses, 
and the result was somewhere between 
chlostrophobic and surreal.
The best costume award went to the soph
omore design class that constructed an orien
tal dragon, complete with a paper mache 
head and a body held up by a train of people. 
Second place went to a body wrapped in 
cellophane. ,
While the extensive lighting produced a 
mystic atmosphere, those who expected a 
mirage of color to clearly contrast the Black 
and White theme of BAB 1979 were sur
prised; decorations consisted mainly of clear 
plastic balloon-like tubing hung from the 
ceilings of the stairwells.
BAB committee, headed up Jamie Bur
nett and Leslie Nieman, began planning for 
the $20,000 ball last spring. Ticket sales pro
vided 100% of these funds, which were spent 
not only on entertainment, sound systems, 
light systems, and publicity, but to hire 20- 
30 CMU police for security. Many a heavy 
eye Was opened to the three paramedics who
Yoda takes time off from The Empire Strikes Back to attend Beaux Arts.
were also hired. Compared to problems dur
ing to the 1979 Beaux Arts, said Marcy 
Trent, a BAB coordinator, The result was 
well worth the extra money spent.
Although the entertainment was exten
sive, and the committee provided free beer, 
drinks for one dollar, a costume contest, and 
an inexpensive photographer for individual 
shots, many ball-goers never found out about 
some of the goings on, and had trouble 
knowing where and when to find others. 
Program lists were available only where 
drink tickets were sold.
Champagne breakfast, scheduled to begin 
at 3:30, started late and ended earlyeveryone did not get the brunch-style break
fast of cheese, bread, fresh fruit, pastries, and 
champagne, before it ran out.
Breakfast alone cost $6000, said Marcy, 
and the problem was the fault of both the 
committee and the company. They said peo
ple just kept piling on the food. But we 
should have drawn up a better contract.
The mood of the evening was far from 
dampened however. As dawn grew closer 
many ball-goers hobbled barefoot around 
the building; others continued dancing at
the all-night disco. The alcoves in the main 
foyer were favorite spots for the gargoyle and 
other exhibitionists.
Some may think that the only true stories 
can be told by the custodians who had to 
face the remains of Beaux Arts on Monday; 
those who attended were left to exploit the 
truth at will, however, because the commit
tee returned to the scene at noon on Sunday to 
sweep away the evidence, and remained 
there until 3 a.m.
In fact, The Tartan received a call from 
Fine Arts last Monday afternoon: Im just 
calling from a phone over here for all the 
custodianswe want to be sure the kids who 
cleaned this up get recognized for it. They 
did a terrific job.
Many of them could count on one hand 
the number of hours of sleep they had had in 
the past week, but the job isnt over yet. 
Members of the committee are still hashing 
it out with the caterers, and others are pay
ing $20,000 worth of bills. Although the 
budget isnt balanced yet, no money is 
expected to remain. Should there be extra, 
however, it will go the the College erf Fine 
Arts library.
Kreskin to speak tonight
thoughts. Kreskin has spent a lifetime 
learning about the human mind, how it 
works, and how to influence it. But despite 
all his amazing feats he is the first to admit 
that even he doesnt understand all the 
underlying processes of some of the things 
he accomplishes.
When performing on stage, Kreskin uses 
conjuring, suggestibility, sensitivity, and 
humor to both amaze and amuse his 
audience. One of his favorite stunts, a 
follow-up to the childhood game of Huckle 
Buckle Beanstalk, is to give his paycheck for 
the evening performance to a member of the 
audience and have him hide it somewhere in 
the room-anywhere. Kreskin does not 
know where it is and makes it understood 
that if he aint find it he will forfeit his fee. 
No words are spoken, and from telepathic 
messages Kreskin is able to find the check. 
He once located the check in a mans upper 
continued on page 14
photo by Jerry McCavitt
Thls Panted lady was one of many who embodied their fantasy in Beaux Arts.
by Matt Corley
The amazing Kreskin, known the world 
over as a mentalist, telepathist, and leading 
authority in the field of ESP (extra sensory 
perception), will perform in the Skibo Bal
lroom tonight at 8 p.m.
Kreskin possesses a presence that is awe
some. He uses his own personality, and sen
sitivity to guide, suggest, command, and 
direct in order to project his thoughts and 
receive impressions from others. People say 
he has an amazing ability to sense what 
other people are thinking and feeling. He 
uses this power to influence peoples 
thoughts.
However, everything Kreskin does utilizes 
natural and scientific phenomena. What I 
do is inherent in everyone, but what I have 
done is learn to sensitize myself to the reac
tions and attitudes of people around me; 
under certain conditions, I can sense their 
thoughts as well as influence their

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanMarch 10, 1981
ATLAS FOR
Electrical Engineers Mechanical Engineers
Physicists
If youre ready to begin your technical career, Out aren't looking forward to a pencil and 
paper pushing existence, we want to tell you about a highly unusual profession.
Essentially, were the people who make it possible for energy producers to evaluate the 
productivity of well sites. Our equipment measures resistivity, conductivity, acoustic travel 
time, radioactivity and various other physical characteristics of the well bore.
As a Jr. Field Engineer, you'll undertake extensive training including supervised field 
work and 12 weeks of classroom instruction before being promoted to Field Engineer 
At this stage, your career adventure really begins. You'll be assigned a logging unit, 
crew and company car Your generous base salary will be supplemented by monthly 
bonuses based on the income your work produces
Your progress will be in your hands on a job that is tough, demanding and long But if 
you're interested in accumulating real-world experience fast, there's nothing like it 
We offer full company benefits, relocation assistance and a variety of 
attractive locations, including the career active Rocky Mountain and 
Sunbelt areas Enjoy the kind of personal recognition that comes 
from a high profile career like this one To find out more, make 
arrangements with your college placement office to visit our 
recruiter on: Thursday. March 19. 1961 
If you are unable to visit with us, send your resume 
detailing your background to:
DninrMi
Manager, Recruitment & College Relations 
P O Box 6504 
Houston, Texas 77001
Kreskins paycheck to be hidden for him to recover
Kreskin is also active in the dispelling of Tickets to see Kreskin are 25<t at the Skibo
many of the outrageous claims about the Information Desk.
Investing in the 80s
Stockbroker advises small investors
by Peggy White
Mark Campbell, a broker with ParkerHunter, spoke on investing in the 80s after 
the weekly AIESEC meeting on February 
25. He began his informal talk to the 75 or 
more students who attended by giving a 
brief history of his experiences, explaining 
how he became a broker, and how a broker 
helps the investor get the most for his 
money. He then opened the floor to 
questions.
The greatest interest of the audience cen
tered around how the small investor could 
make the most for his money. Campbell 
commented that mutual funds are a safe 
investment because they provide a percen
tage of ownership in several different com
panies for every share bought. If the market 
in one of the companies falls, it does not 
affect the over-all investment as much as 
owning a straight share. When shares of 
stock are purchased, the investor should 
look for companies that had constant 
growth in the past and that have a marketa
ble product for the future. Currently, energy,
biogenetics, robotics, and chemicals are 
profitable areas of investment.
Campbell warned against lending 
money. Interest rates are far lower than the 
rate of inflation, so the investor is a sure 
loser. He gave the example of savings and 
checking accounts that earn interest but not 
at the same rate as inflauon.
Campbell also spoke on money market 
funds, inhouse research, commissions, and 
market fluctuation analysis. He strongly 
suggested that the investor search for a 
broker that will best suit the investors needs 
and one that will provide a comfortable 
working relationship. Having several meet
ings with brokers from various firms is the 
best way to find the best broker. He described 
a brokers job as the truest sales job there 
is.
i
Campbells talk was one in a series being 
presented by the AIESEC. The next speaker 
will be Joseph Lang, an economic forecaster 
for Pittsburgh National Bank. He will give 
a twenty-minute presentation followed by 
open discussion on Wednesday, March 18 at 
4:45 p.m. All students are welcome to attend.
iROM CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUO
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIDTS BOCK OARK 
CHAMPALE WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
Original
^ un nnn
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB MOLSON ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS AND SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oz 6 pk featured each week
SCHLITZ * PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT * STROHS . WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
' SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRCSH CUT FRENCH fRIES-PIZZ A SERVED TIL 4 AM 
HOT DOG* - CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
IMPORTS
' BECKS LIGHT OR OARK 
Germany 
' CARLSBURG MALT 
Denmark 
' OORT HANSA Germany 
 HOFBRAU Germany 
' FISCHER GOLO France 
' HOLSTEN LAGER Germany 
 ST PAULI GIRL Germany
 SPATEN Germany
* RIGNES SPECIAL Norway
* SWAN LAGER Australia 
' BASS ALE England
' MAC KESON STOUT 
England
 LOWENBRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITilREAO PALE ALE 
England
?ILSNtR URQUELL 
Czechoslovakia 
RIGNES Norway 
OOS EQUIS Menco 
PERONl Hal
GUINESS STOUT Ireland 
GROLSCHE Holland 
GOSSER Austria 
SAN MIGUEL Phillpmes 
KIRIN Japan 
MOLSON ALE Canada 
KRAKUS Poland 
HEINEKE LT A OK Holland 
FOSTERS LAGER Australia AND MANY OTHERS
HOT DOG SHOPS. INC 621-7388 or 621 -11 85
3001 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PCM., PA. 19213
human mind, particularly those spread by 
numerous occultists and psychics. For 
instance, he believes hypnosis is nothing 
more than a well meant delusion. To 
back this up, he has a standing challenge of 
$25,000 money, on deposit in an American 
bank, to the first hypnotist, physician, or 
scienust tha.t can scientifically prove the 
existence of a specific hypnotic trance, state 
or condition.
Kreskin got his start in magic when he 
was about five. His idol was the comic book 
hero, Mandrake the Magician. Kreskin tried 
to emmulate his idol by practicing con
stantly undl he had honed his skills to a 
point well beyond his years. By age nine he 
was performing as a professional magician 
and by age eleven he was pracucing the 
hypnosis (which he later dispelled as a 
myth). He used to aggravate his friends by t 
guessing who they were before they spoke 
when phoning. Kreskin changed his name 
from John Kresge at age seventeen. The k 
comes from John Kellar, one of the first 
great magicians; the in from Houdini. He 
retained the Kres from his own name. 
When asked for iniuals he gives T.A. for 
the amazing.
Kreskin has worked with scientists and dentists in 
medical pursuits and has often been called upon 
to work in criminal cases helping witnesses 
recall lost details crucial to cases.
continued from page 13
plate. He has failed before, in fact several 
rimes recently, which has him worried.
Most people know Kreskin as a performer 
and showman, but he is also an intense 
scholar and researcher. He possesses a vora
cious appetite for knowledge and is con
stantly looking for new discoveries and 
breakthroughs in the use and understandof the human mind. As a researcher, 
Kreskin has an esteemed reputation in scien
tific circles. He has worked with scientists 
and dentists in medical pursuits and has 
often been called upon to work in criminal 
cases helping witnesses recall lost details 
which are crucial for the case.
All through his professional career, Kres
kin has faced a dilemma: whether to termi
nate his stage career to pursue one of intense 
laboratory research. His conclusion is, 
though, that he can accomplish more by 
researching and then relating his discoveries 
to the public through performing. By perfonning he can stimulate scientific interest 
as well as making his findings known to 
everyone. What good is science if noone 
knows about it.
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1981The TartanPage 15
Very Important Pittsburghers
Carnegie Institute hires new director
by Molly Silver
Nothing much seems to have changed at 
the Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute.
The DuChamp sculpture sways near the 
museum cafe. The Saul Steinberg hangs 
among works of fine art on the museums 
second floor. The Tightrope Walker still 
hovers near the ceiling. So whats new at the 
museum?
John Lane, a youthful and dynamic direc
tor, thats whats new.
Holder of a B.A. from Williams, an 
M B.A. from the University of Chicago, an 
A.M. from Harvard, and a Ph.D. in fine arts 
from Harvard, Mr. Lane hails from the 
Fogg Art Museum and from the Brooklyn 
Museum, where he was Assistant Director 
for Curatorial Affairs.
Having grown up in Sun Valley, Idaho, 
home of the famous ski haven, Mr. Lane 
first became interested in art at Williams, 
having been inspired by a professor who 
was the director of the prestigious Williamstown Museum. It was during his service in 
the Navy when Lane was a lieutenant, that 
he decided to enter the musuem calling.
Lane feels he has made a wise decision in 
choosing Pittsburgh to fulfill his calling. 
There are a limited number of dues I felt 
had such opportunity for continued growth 
of museums in the eighties. So I was pleased 
to receive the appointment here, said Lane.
Leon Arkus has overseen a great expan
sion of the Museums physical facilities, and
Below the surface
the growth of its collections, he continued, 
So there was a good chance for his succes
sor to implement the rich program of exhi
bitions and educational activities as well as 
carrying on his fine tradition of adding to 
the collection.
lane senses a lively interest in both the 
arts and cultural activity in Pittsburgh. He 
feels that tremendous development has 
occurred in the City for the museum, sym
phony, ballet and orchestra, to make Pitts
burgh a rich cultural center.
Lane is pleased that students at neighbor
ing universities find the museum a helpful 
resource. It is also especially gratifying, to 
have such a fine studio art department at 
Camegie-Mellon, and knowing that the stu
dents and faculty feel this is the place where 
they can see interesting exhibits.
Since Lane took over as director last June, 
he has augmented his staff with what he 
calls intelligent, energetic people with fine 
educational backgrounds so that the muse
ums collection will be served in a way that 
becomes its excellence.
Adding a section of fine arts with paint
ing, sculpture, and fine paper, Lane com
pleted this new section with two curators, 
one a specialist in American painting, the 
odier an assistant with a background in 
European art.
Gene Barrow, adjunct curator of contem
porary art, will select the exhibitions of 
recent art and will select the artist for the
annual Carnegie International. A curator to 
head the antiquities, and oriental and decor
ative art section will be appointed in the 
near future. Finally, Lane has added an 
assistant registrar and a full-time conserva
tor to care for the museums over one thou
sand paintings.
Presently, Lane is curator of the exhibi
tion for Abstract Painting in America, 1930- 
45, held in conjunction with the Brooklyn 
Museum and The Museum of Fine Arts in 
Houston. The show is planned for 1982- 
1983. Lanes specialty is in nineteenthand 
twentieth-century American art, a period 
that Lane feels lias not received appropriate 
scholarly attention.
When asked what the trends in the art 
world appear to be, Lane commented that 
we are presently in a time when it is difficult 
to discern what the trends are. Lane feels 
that many different avenues are being 
explored by artists. So one has anything 
from realistic art to conceptual art, to min
imalist art, to bad, to stupid art. All of these 
are manifestations of serious talents. It is 
really difficult to discern what is of impor
tance. I guess in that context, I am glad that I 
have a curator of contemporary art. The 
responsibility of doing the discerning is 
primarily his.
 Art museums, such as the Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute serve aesthetic and educa
tional means. According to Lane, To serve 
continued on page 16
John Lane is the new director at the 
Museum erf Art.
The Tartan introduces twe new columnists: Molly Silver, H&SS sophomore, and Luis Ball, junior econ major.
Spanish general seizes TV network and leads coup
by Luis Ball
The price of gasoline goes up because 
there is war in the Middle East. Fifty Ameri
cans spend a year in captivity because an 
Ayatollah said so. American farmers cant 
sell their grain because Russia invaded 
Afghanistan. These are just a few of the 
ways in which Americans were affected by 
international events last year. Yet most of us 
are usually too busy or too ignorant of facts 
to keep up with the international news. 
However, as the events above demonstrate, 
world events affect all of us. We need to 
know w hat is happening around the world 
in order to have some control of the events.
The objective of this column will be to 
inform the campus community of the devel
opment of the major international news 
story of the week. This will not necessarily 
be a weekly column, since there are weeks 
without any major international events. 
However, when something does happen 
this column will provide a background and 
reasons behind the event, and a summary of 
the events development during the week.
rhe major international news event of 
the week preceding this columns deadline 
was the attempted military coup in Spain.
A referendum in 1931 resulted in theabolition of the monarchy and the establish
ment of a republic. A few months later it 
became clear that the country was divided 
into two factions; the ruling leftist faction 
dominated by the socialists, and a lightest 
faction divided into countless parties.
For five years the republic struggled 
through social and civil unrest. Then in 
1936, a group of generals led by Gen. Fran
cisco Franco declared themselves in rebel
lion with the purpose of re-establishing the 
monarchy. The rebellion became a civil war 
in which one million people died. At the 
end, General Franco won, thus becoming 
dictator of Spain from 1939 until his death 
in 1975.
King Juan Carlos I (who was designated 
Francos successor in 1969) took power fol
lowing Francos death, and quickly re
established democracy under a 
constitutional monarchy.
Lately, the conservative army and the 
paramilitary civil guards have been 
unhappy with government actions such as 
the separation of Church and State and the 
legalization of the communist party. Also, 
the army and the Civil Guard have been 
unhappy with what they regard as govern
mental weakness towards terrorism by
Basque separatists (the North-Eastern 
Basque provinces of Spain).
On February 23, a group of Civil Guards 
led by Lieutenant Colonel Antonio Tejero 
broke into the parliament building in 
downtown Madrid, and took all the 350 
members of the lower house hostage while 
they waited for a full scale coup to 
materialize.
A few moments later, Lieut. General 
Jaime Milans, military governor of the 
Valencia province, took his men out to the 
streets and declared a state of emergency. 
Soon afterwards, troops loyal to General 
Milans briefly took control of the national 
TV network until troops loyal to the King
arrested them.
Moments after the network was recovered, 
the King (who was not the target of this 
coup) appeared on TV condemning the 
coup and asking for loyalty and support. 
Moments after the Kings speech, General 
Milans withdrew his troops and was 
arrested by the authorities. Later, 17 hours 
after they first entered the building, the Civil 
Guards at the parliament surrendered, 
releasing all their prisoners unharmed. By 
the end of the week more than fifty officers 
had been arrested for their involvement in 
the coup, including four generals and the 
armys deputy chief of staff.
The coup failed because the King corncontinued on page 16
Dr. Marcus Bloch, 
LHY
President
Eastern School of Hypnotism
240 Rivington Street 
New York 2. N Y.
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
Hunger Awareness Week
March 16-19
Lunchtime programsMonday, March 16 
Politics and Hunger, Gail Heffner, graduate of G.S.P.I.A., in 
economic and social development, focusing on world hunger. Wherrett 
Room, noon to 1 p.m.
Tuesday, March 17 
The Economics of Hunger, Edie Robinson, Hunger Action 
Coalition. Wherrett Room, noon to 1 p.m.Wednesday, March 18
A doctor looks at hunger and malnutrition, David Bamhouse, M.D.
Former medical missionary in India. Room 11, Skibo Noon to 1 p.m.Thursday, March 19 
Break-fast: An Ecumenical Celebration Wherrett Room, 3:30-4:30 
p.m.
24-hour fast for hunger relief; funds raised for Oxfam America. Information available from CMU chaplains.
Sponsored by Campus Ministry Council
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanMarch 10, 1981
Spring 1981 Final Examination schedule:
Policy
rhe Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of final examinations for undergraduate courses;
1. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for exam purposes of any kind;
3. the faculty shall not exert or submit to pressures to move an exam so that people can leave earlier;
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given finals day; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving conflicts;
5. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be mad due no later than the last day of clashes;
7. take-home final exams shall be given for any 24 hour period of the students choosing during the final exam period.
Requests for exceptions to this policy should be made to Dr. Edward Schatz, Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs.
Grade Deadlines
Final grades due for degree candidates no later than noon, Friday, May 15,1981 to the Registrars Office Warner Hall 201.
Final grades for all other due no later than 9 a.m., Tuesday, May 20, 1981.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03-114Life Origin EvolutnMon May 118:30-10:30DH 1212 .
03-121Modem BiologyFri May 158:30-11:30DH 2210, DH 2315
03-130Biology of OrganismsFri May 158:30-10:30SH 125
03-231Biochemistry IWed May 138:30-11:30MI 355
03-441Molec Bio ProkaryoteMon May 111:00-4:00SH 212
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06-101 Intro to Chem Engr
06-202 Chemical Engr III
06-204 Process Thermodynmcs
Thu May 14 
Mon May 11
May 13
1:00-4:00
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
PH 100
PH 225C, PH 226A, 
PH 225B 
SCH 5427
CHEMISTRY
09-104Ch Asp Org Bioch MdTue May 125:30-8:30DH 2105
09-105Dynamics 8c EquilibFri May 151:00-4:00SH 125
09-106Bonding Struct PrincThu May 145:30-8:30DH 2210
09-117Organic Chemistry IThu May 148:30-11:30DH 1212
09-142Physcl Chemistry ITue May 128:30-11:30SCH 5403
09-218Organic Chemistry IIThu May 148:30-11:30DH 2210
09-244Physcl Chemistry IIIMon May 115:30-8:30DH 2315
09-502Organic Polymer ChemMon May 111:00-4:00MM 14
09-711Physcl Organic ChemMon May 118:30-11:30DH 2122
09-741Organic Polymer ChemMon May 111:00-4:00MM 14
09-746Linear ViscoelastctyMon May 118:30-11:30DH 2105
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12-110Intro Engr EconomicsThu May 148:30-11:30PH 225B, PH 225C 
PH 226A
12-208DynamicsThu May 141:00-4:00PH 225C
12-211Solid Mechanics 1Wed May 131:00-4:00SCH 5427, SCH 6423
12-315MaterialsThu May 148:30-11:30BH 231
12-325Soil MechanicsMon May 111:00-3:30SCH 5419
12-604Systems Engr IIWed May 138:30-11:30HH 11
12-621Structural Mech IIMon May 118:30-11:30PH 125C
12-636Envr Engr Air PollutMon May 111:00-4:00BH 131
12-637Urbn Eng Issues ProbMon May 118:30-10:30PH 125D
12-715Public Invstmnt PlanTue May 121:00-3:00PH 123B
12-717Tmsptn Policy AnalTue May 128:30-11:30PH 123B
12-732Sp Tp Envmmntl EngrMon May 118:30-11:30PH 123 B
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15-104Intro to Computing A"Fri May 158:30-11:30DH 1112, DH 1212
15-118Intro to Computing CAMon May 111:00-4 00DH 1112, DH 1212
BMon May 111:00-4:00DH 1112, DH 1212
CMon May 111:00-4:00DH 1112, DH 1212
DMon May 111:00-4:00BH 231
15-204Int Prog Mthds SciFri May 151:00-4:00SCH 5419
15-411Compiler DesignWed May 138:30-11:30MM 14
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
18-100Fndmntls Elec EngrWed May 131:00-4:00DH 2315, SCH 7500
18-102Electmc Circuits IABThu May 148:30-11:30DH 2315
CDThu May 148:30-11:30SCH 7500
EThu May 148:30-11:30SH 125
18-114Electrical Engr IIAThu May 148:30-11:30PH 100
18-133Intro to Digital SysWed May 135:30-8:30DH 2315, SCH 7500
18-218Linear SystemsThu May 145:30-8:30MM 14, MM 103
18-222An Des Anlg Dig CircMon May 118:30-11:30MM 14, MM 103
18-243Bioinstr Elec SafetyWed-May 135:30-8:30SCH 8427
18-310Fund Comm'unctn SystMon May 111:00-4:00HH 10, HH 11
18-341Elctrmch Fids Fr MotWed May 138:30-11:30SH 220
18-430Arms Cntrl & Def PolTue May 125:30-8:30HH 10, SH 125
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
19-420 Chm Tchnlg Envm Soc Wed May 13 8:30-11:30 PH 126B
MATHEMATICS
21-111Calculus IMon May 118:30-11:30SCH 5310, SCH 5320
21-112Calculus IITue May 121:00-4:00DH 2315
21-121Calculus IWed May 135:30-8:30- SH 125
21-122Calculus IITue May 128:30-11:30DH 2210, DH 2315 
SCH 7500, SH 125 
PH 100
21-123Calculus IIIMon May 118:30-11:30PH 126B, PH 126C
21-127Intro to Appl MathFri May 151:00-4:00HH 10, HH 11
21-141Cmptnl Lin AlgebraFri May 158:30-11:30PH 100
21-241Cmptnl Linear Alg IIMon May 118:30-11:30SCH 5403
21-259Mthds Appl Math ITue May 125:30-8:30DH 2210, DH 2315
21-260Mthds Appl Math IIMon May 111:00-4:00Ph 100, SCH 7500 
DH 2210, DH 2315
21-265Linear ProgrammingThu May 141:00-4:00SH 125
21-267Graph Theoryttw***5:30:8:30HH 11
21-273Modern Algebra IMon May 115:30-8:30SCH 7500
21-292Operations ResearchThu May 141:00-4:00DH 2210, DH 2315
21-369Numerical MethodsFri May 158:30-11:30HH 11
21-372Part Diff EquationsTue May 128:30-1:30SCH 5320
21-476Ord Diff EquationsTue May 128:30-11:30SCH 5310
21-484Applied Graph TheoryThu May 148:30-11:30HH 11
21-485Mathematical ModelsWed May 131:00-4:00HH 11, MM 14
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
24-112Fluid Mechanics IMon May 115:30-8:30HH 10, HH 11
24-141Statics and DynamicsWed May 135:30-8:30SH 212, SH 220 
SH 224
24-203Stress AnalysisMon May 118:30-11:30SH 206, SH 212, 
SH 220, SH 224
24-208Manufactur SciencesWed May 138:30-11:30SH 422
24-223Thermodynamics IIWed May 131:00-4:00SH 125 HH 10
24-249DynamicsMon May 111:00-4:00SH 422
24-258Numerical Methods Fri May 151:00-4:00SH 220
METALLURGY AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
27-131 Materials Science
27-216 Transport 8c Kinetics 
27-322 Process Metallurgy
27-332 Physcl Metallurgy II
27-442 Plast 8c Frac of Mtls
27-530 Alloy Steels
27-552 Ceramics 8c Glasses
A
BC
Fri May 151:00-4:00DH 2210
Fri May 151:00-4:00DH 2315
Thu May 148:30-11:30DH A317
Mon May 111:00-4:00DH A317
Fir May 151:00-4:00DH A317
Mon May 118:30-11:30DH 1211, DH 1217
Thu May 148:30-11:30SCH 5427
Mon May 111:00-4:00SCH 5304
PHYSICS
33-101 Cncpts Mdrn Physics
33-113 Phys Musical Sound
33-121 Physics I Mechanics
33-122 Physics II Ht VVv Opf
33-123 Physics III Elec Mag
33-124 Phys IV At Phv St Mt
33-131 Physclmechanics II
33-134 Modern Physics I
33-438 Intrmd Elec 8c Mag II
33-442 Intro Stat Physics
33-444 Intro Nuclear Phys .
33-446 Wave Mec hanics
33-448 Intro Solid St Phys
33-454 Physics oi Continua
TueMay121:00-4:00SCH 5403
TueMay121:00-4:00SCH 7500
TueMay125:30-8:30PH 100
MonMay118:30-11:30BH 231, BH 232F,
PH 100, DH 1112,
DH 2210, DH 2315,
SCH 7500. SH 125,
DH A317
MonMay115:30-8:30DII 1212
MonMay118:30-11:30SCH 8427
MonMay118:30-11:30SCH 5419
TueMay128:30-11:30SCH 5427
WedMay138:30-11:30SCH 8427
MonMay111:00-4:00SCH 6423
ThuMay148:30-11:30SCH 8127
MonMay118:30-11:30SCH 5336
TueMay128:30-11:30SCH 6423
MonMay111:00-4:00SCH 8427

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1981The TartanPage 17
Plan traumas accordingly
STATISTICS
36-210Prb App Sta Mg SS IIAFri May 151:00-4:00PH 100
BFri May 151:00-4:00SCH 7500
CFri May 151:00-4:00PH 100
36-212Prb App St Ph S8cE IIFri May 151:00-4:00MM 14
36-216Probability Stat IIMon May 118:30-11:30HH 11
36-220Stat Mth Data An IIFri May 151:00-4:00SCH 5403
36-320Adv Data Anal IITue May 125:30-8:30SCH 6423
36-372Elem Appi ProbabltyWed May 131:0-4:00SCH 5419
err DISCIPLINARY
39-227- ASE II (MMS) -Fri May 158:30-11:30DH A317
39-232R1 Tm Comput in LabFri May 15
' i
8:30-11:30SCH 5427
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
42-704Bio Trns PhrmckntcsTue May 128:30-11:30SCH 5336
MUSIC
57-152Harmony IFri May 151:00-3:00FA 157
57-154Harmony IITue May 121:00-3:00FA 107
57-162Eurythmics IMon May 118:30-12:30MM 119
57-164Eurythmics IITue May 128:30-10:30MM 119
57-182Solfege ITue May 128:30-12:30MM 114
57-184Solfege IIThu May 148:30-11:30MM 114
57-186Solfege IIIThu May 1411:30-1:30MM 114
57-204History of Music IIIMon May 111:00-3:00FA 160
57-256Counterpoint ITue May 121:00-4:00FA 160
57-25820th Cent TechniquesFri May 158:30-10:30Fa 157
57-332Intro to ConductingWed May 138:30-10:30MM 119
57-333Instrmntl ConductingTue May 128:30-10:30FA 160
57-376Music Secondary EducThu May 149:30-11:30FA 160
57-408Form and AnalysisMon May 118:30-10:30HL, LR
57-421Italian DictionThu May 148:30-9:30FA 160
57-424German DictionWed May 131:00-2:00FA 160
57-438Choral TechniquesWed May 1310:30-11:30MM 119
57-442Kybd Hrm Musician IFri May 158:30-10:30FA 160
57-444Kybd Hrm Musician IIMon May 118:30-10:30FA 160
57-446Instr Methods BrassMon May 111:00-3.00FA 157
57-448Score ReadingMon May 118:30-9:30 -FA 157
57-725Adv Diction ItalianMon May 118:30-10:30FA 107
57-902Music AestheticsMon May 1110:30-12:30FA 107
57-912Hist An Oper Lit StyTue May 128:30-10:30FA 107
57-980Contra-Harm Tch 18thTue May 1210:30-12:30FA 107
ADMINISRATION AND MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
70-101Elem Industri AdminA Mon May 115:30-8:30BH 231
B Mon May 115:30-8:30DH 1112
70-121Accounting IThu May 145:30-8:30PH 100, DH 2315
70-161Intro Gra Comnctns IIMon May 115:30-8:30SH 224
70-193Graph Commun Proc IIMon May 111:00-4:00PH 226B
70-361Foundations of LawWed May 135:30-8:30DH 1112, DH 1212
70-363Law in Mdm Amer SocWed May 135:30-8:30DH 2210
70-371Production IA Mon May 118:30-11:30PH 125B
B Mon May 118:30-11:30PH 126 A
C Mon May 118:30-11:30BH 131
70-391Finance IA Thu May 148:30-11:30MM 14
B Thu May 148:30-11:30HH 10
70-422Cost AccountingWed May 138:30-11:30PH 225C
70-426Advanced AccountingThu May 141:00-4:00BH 131
70-471Production IMon May 118:30-11:30PH 226C, PH 226B
70-481Marketing IIWed May 138:30-11:30 -BH 131
70-491Finance IIMon May 111:00-4:00PH 225C
70-632Grph Comnctn Proc IIITue May 121:00-4:00PH 226A
HfcSS INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM
66-205Ntn EMp Eur Wrld OrdMon May 115:30-7:30PH 226A
66-224Cult Lit Latin AmerTue May 128:30-10:30PH 226A 

ECONOMICS
73-100Princ of EconomicsL.l Wed May 138:30-11:30SCH 5310, SCH 5320,
SCH 5403, SCH 5419
L.2 -Wed May IS8:30-11:30DH 2210, DH 2315
73-250Intermed MicroeconAC Wed May 138:30-11:30PH 100
BD Wed May 138:30-11:30SCH 7500
E Wed May 138:30-11:30SH 125
73-300Intermed MacroeconA Tue May 128:30-11:30BH 131
BC Tue May 128:30-11:30DH 1112, DH 1212
73-345
73-359
73-365
73-110
73-430
73-4.58
Indus 8c Labor Rei 
Benefit-Cost Analy 
Industri Organiiatn 
Leon Business Cycles 
Tpc Eton Uncertainty 
Money and Banking
Tue May 12 
Tue May 12 
Thu May 14 
Tue May 12 
Mon May 11 
Fri May 15
1:00-4:00 
1:00-4:00 
8:30-11:30 
8:30-11:30 
8;30-l 1:30 
8:30-11.30
PH 126 A 
SCH 5427 
BH 131 
SCH 5316 
DH A219 
BH 232F
ENGLISH
76-101Fiction and FactAThu May 148:30-11:30PH 125B
BThu May 148:30-11:30PH 226B
CThu May 148:30-11:30BH 255A
DThu May 148:30-11:30PH 125Q
EThu May 148:30-11:30BH 235A
FThu May 148:30-11:30BH 235B
GThu May 148:30-11:30PH 226C
HThu May 148:30-11:30BH 245
76-221The Fiction of PghMon May 111:00-4:00BH 235B
76-230Bblcl Myth Bkgrd LitATue May 128:30-11:30BH 245
BTue May 128:30-11:30BH 235B
76-244ShakespeareATue May 125:30-8:30BH 245
BTue May 125:30-8:30BH 235B
CTue May 125:30-8:30PH 107B
76-260Surv Genres FictionMon May 115:30-8:30BH 255B
76-321Mechanics & Style#Wed May 135:30-8:30BH 255A
76-331Continental DramaMon May 111:00-4:00BH 235A
76-341British RomanticsThu May 148:30-11:30BH 255B
76-351Shrt Fctn Tch ThemesFri May 151:00-4:00BH 235B
76-371Rhetor Soc InteractnMon May 111:00-4:00BH 255A
76-388Cntmp Rhetrcl Theory'Thu May 141:00-4:00BH 245
76-431KafkaThu May 148:30-11:30BH 229B
76-441ChaucerTue May 128:30-11:30BH 255B
76-721Mechanics 8c StyleWed May 135:30-8:30BH 255A
76-882Hstry of Rhetoric IIMon May 118:30-11:30BH 255A
85-101
85-111
85-211
85-241
85-310
85-394
88-200 
88-300 
88-330 
88-401 
88-701 
88-341 
88-741
HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY
79-102Shaping Wstm Civ IIAMon May 111:00-3:00PH 125B
BMon May 111:00-3:00BH 229B
CMon May 111:00-3:00PH 117
79-110Origins of Mdm WrldWed May 131:00-3:00PH 100, DH 2210
79-120Pwr 8c Val Amer CivilMon May 115:30-7:30PH 100, DH 2210
79-234Family and SocietyMon May 111:00-3:00PH 226C
79-236Work and Leisure.Thu May 145:30-7:30SH 125
79-250Intro Appl HistoryWed May 131:00-3:00PH 126C
79-305Gv Wr Rec 1850-1880Mon May 115:30-7:30PH 107A
79-343IrelandFri May 158:30-10:30PH 226A
79-344Arch 8c Urbnsm of PghTue May 128:30-10:30Pitt, FA 202
79-346Industrial RevolutnFri May 151:00-3:00PH 226B
79-347Sci in Our CultureThu May 145:30-7:30ScH 5427
79-364Early Modem EuropeWed May 135:30-7:30PH 226B
79-366Europe Cult Lf StyleMon May 118:30-10:30BH 245
79-367Europe Inti AffairsWed May 135:30-7:30BH 245
79-371Soviet Union TodayTue May 121:00-4:00PH 226B
79-382Dvlprnnt of Mdm MindWed May 131:00-4:00BH 231
80-100Philos Mthds Soc ValAMon May 115:30-7:30BH 131
BMon May 115:30-7:30PH 225C
CMon May 115:30-7:30BH 232F
80-210Ethical Issues MgmntTue May 128:30-10:30BH 232F
80-250Theories of PaintingTue May 128:30-10:30HL, MPR
80-260Christianity 8c SciTue May 128:30-10:30PH I26B
80-354So-Pol-Legal PhilosThu May 145:30-7:30PH 225C
80-370Fndtns of Psych TheoTue May 121:00-3:00PH 226C
MODERNLANGUAGEPROGRAM
82-102Elementary FrenchTue May 128:30-10:30BH 229B
82-122Elementary GermanFri May 158:30-10:30PH 226B
82-142Elementary SpanishTue May 128:30-10:30PH 125D
82-162Elementary ItalianThu May 141:00-3:00BH 229B, BH 235A
82-202Int French Cult SocTue May 128:30-10:30PH 226B
82-222Int German Cult SocMon May 111:00-3:00PH 226A
82-234Int Ger Rdg KnowldgeFri May 158:30-10:30PH 225B
82-242Int Spanish Cult SocTue May 128:30-10:30PH 126C
82-262Intermediate ItalianTue May 128:30-10:30PH 225B
82-301French Conver 8c CompWed May 135:30-7:30PH 126C
82-322German Conver 8c CompThu May 141:00-3:00PH 226A
82-342Spanish Cnvrsatn CompTue May 121:00-3:00BH 229B
82-416Studies French LitTue May 121:00-3:00BH 235B
82-455St Span Latin Am LitWed May 131:00-3:00BH 229B
PSYCHOLOGY AND EDUCATION
General Psychology 
Prblm Solving Tchnqs 
Cognitive Psychology
Social Psychology 
Rsch Mthds Cog Psych 
Psych of Reading
Inuo Models Soc Sci 
Pol An I An Md Po An 
Technlgy 8c Soc Shng 
Frcst Mth Sot Pol Sc 
Frcst Mth Soc Pol Sc 
Law 8c Public Policy 
Law 8c Public Policy
Tue May 12 
Tue May 12 
A Tue May 12
B Tue May 12
Thu May 14 
Fri May 15 
Tue Mav 12
SOCIAL SCIENCE
1:00-3:00PH 100
1:00-3:00BH 232F
1:00-4:00HH 10, HH 11
1:00-4:00DH 2210
5:30-8:30ScH 7500
8:30-10:30BH 336B
8:30-10:30PH 226C
Tue May 12 
Tue May 12 
Fri May 15 
Mon May 11 
Mon May 11 
Thu May 14 
Thu Mav 14
5:30-8:30
8:30-11 30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:50
1:00-4:00
1:00-4:00
ScH 7500 
PH 225C. 
BH 131 
BH 229B 
BH 229B 
BH 231 
BH 231

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanMarch 10, 1981
Carnegie named womens college for his mother
by Karen Stevens
Margaret Morrison Caniegie College, 
named in honor of Andrew Carnegies 
mother, began classes in Industries Hall 
(now Porter) in May of 1906. What we now 
know as the Rotunda of Margaret Morrison 
was complete enough for instruction to 
begin in September of 1907. Women entered 
for a two to three year program that pre
pared them for maintaining a home or earn
ing a livelihood as a matron, a manager of a 
boarding school or house, a steward, a dress 
maker, a clothing designer, or a secretary.
In 1912, a young lady could earn a B.S. in 
Household Economics, Secretarial Studies, 
Dress Making, or Costume Illustration and 
Design. Four year programs in Science and 
Liberal Arts were introduced in 1913, fol
lowed by programs in Social Work (1914), 
English (as a minor in 1916) and Librarian 
Training (1919).
By 1936, a graduate of MMCC could 
receive a degree in Costume Economics, 
Household Economics, Home Economic 
Education, Social Work, General Science, 
Secretarial Studies, or General Studies. 
These programs involved more than one 
might guess from their titles. For example, 
Home Economic Education majors took 
english, math, science, economics, social 
ethics and hygiene, along w ith sewing and 
cooking. continued on page 19
Psych assn. formed
by Scott Schaffer
The Carnegie-Mellon Psychological 
Association (CMPA), a new campus 
organization, is open to anyone with an 
interest in psychology.
CMPA will serve several purposes. It will 
act as a liason between students, faculty, and 
administrators. It will also be a means for 
finding out information about graduate 
schools, job opportunities, and new 
directions in the behavioral sciences. Most 
importantly, it will be a way for people with 
a common interest to get to know one 
another informally.
The next meeting of the CMPA will be 
Tuesday, March 20, at 5:00 p.m. in the 
psychology lounge on the third floor of 
Baker Hall. For furthur information, call 
683-8617.
Carnegie Inst.
continued from page 15
these needs calls for a real love of art and 
ideas, a greatly caring attitude towards a 
museums collections, and an aggressive 
pursuit of additions to those collectionsall 
accompanied by exhibitions and activities 
that enrich visitors understanding of 
aspects of the history of the art and 
civilization.
Lane sensed that interesting and enjoya
ble possibilities exist in Pittsburgh to under
take good programming and make 
interesting acquisitions. Lane has found 
Pittsburghers to have an inherent warmth 
and generosity and the kind of tangible sup
port necessary to make museum growth 
possible.
Is Lane contented in his new, prestigious 
position? If anything I am happy to say I 
underestimated the situation!
Spanish Coup
continued from page 15
marak'd the respect of all officers, including 
some of the rebellious ones. The coup was a 
result of the generals desire to return to the 
good old days of Franco, when the state 
had an official religion (Catholic), the com
munist party was illegal, and Basque terror
ists were not a problem.
This is a scene from days gone by when the yet bare fence was a
A CAREER 
IN THE CHIPS
If youre planning a career In Engineering, Finance, Marketing, 
or Data Processing, we know youre seriously considering the 
semiconductor industry. Wed like to offer a little piece of advice: 
Choose the company that will give you the best opportunities right 
away. Choose AMD.
Advanced Micro Devices started out a little over a decade ago 
with eight of the best people in the industry and a dream. Today, 
were at the top of the integrated circuit field with 9,000 of the 
bestand friendliestpeople, $225 million in sales, and over 800 
products. Were still growing fast, with the best career opportunities 
to put you right in the chips with us.
On-CampusInterviews
Friday, March 20
Make an appointment today with your Career Planning & Place
ment Center. Or, for more information on AMD, call Sally Hazard 
TOLL FREE at (800) 538-8450. (In California, call (408) 732-2400, 
extension 2799.) Advanced Micro Devices, 901 Thompson Place, M/S 
57, Sunnyvale, California 94086. An equal opportunity employer.
Advanced Micro Devices

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1981The TartanPage 19
Margaret
Morrison
continued from page 18
Later, dietetics, institutional manage
ment, drawing and design, and home deco
rating were added to the program.
The curriculum for General Science 
emphasized chemistry, physics and math. 
General Studies could be paralleled with the 
H&SS core curriculum, which later evolved 
from this program. Added in 1930 was a 
5-year nurses training program in coopera
tion with West Penn Hospital. Teachers 
Education for secondary schools was yet 
another program offered.
In the 1950s, faculties of E8cS, Fine 
s,and Humanities began to absorb some of 
the teaching responsibility of MMCC. How
ever, it wasnt until 1964 that the college was 
phased out by H&SS.
Over the years many things have been said 
about the purpose of the womens college. 
W. Lucien Scaiffe, a trustee said:
To make and inspire the home;
To lessen suffering and increase 
happiness;
To aid mankind in its upward struggle;
To enable and adorn lifes work, however 
humble,
These are womens highest prerogatives.
As late as 1959 Dean Le Clair was still 
thinking along these lines:
One of the worst misconceptions handi
capping women students is their disassociation of intellectual activities on the one hand 
and the duties of wives and mothers on the 
other. Many of their frustrations and uncer
tainties of purpose would disappear if we 
could forget all the beautiful phrases and 
come to grips with the fact that homemaking is a career, an important career, which 
makes as many intellectual demands in its 
continued on page 20
To make and inspire the home; 
To lessen suffering and increase happiness; 
To aid mankind in its upward struggle; 
To enable and adorn life's work, however humble; 
These are women's highest prerogatives
%
cioo^sd5d',''sorV
-.(*evs Sn the ^ade

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanMarch 10, 1981
Communication Week 4: MCS
Mellon College of Science
Office of the DeanMCS
Dean: Daniel Berg x2484, SH 115
Assoc. Dean CTT/MCS: Robert Kail x2479, SH 110
Asst. Dean and Dir. Health Prof. Prog.: Karolyn Eisenstein
Asst. Dean: Lois Elaine Kiss x3018, SH 115
Asst, to the Dean: Ann Rosenthal x2485, SH 115
Admin. Asst.: Betty Schweppe x3750, SH 112B
Biological Sciences
Head: Chien Ho x3180, MI 402
Assist. Head: Eric Grotzinger x3179, MI 414
Admin. Asst.: Mary Louise Condy x3180, MI 406
Chemistry
Head: R.L. Kay x3125, MI 408 
Admin. Asst.: Georgia T. Killcrece x3127, MI 412 
Admin. Officer: Anton (Tony) Streiff x2318, DH 2114 
Business Mgr.: Raymond Nether x2340, DH 2108 
Stores Mgr.: Jacki Cochrane x2342, DH A200
Computer Science
Head: A. Nico Habermann x2592, SCH 4220 
Asst. Dept. Head: John McDermott x2599, SCH 4206 
Admin. Assistants: Sharon Burks x2593, SCH 4216 
Wanda Keppler x3772, SCH 6122 
Judy Rosenberg x2591, SCH 3204 
Office Supervisor: Rosemarie Commisso x2596, SCH 4212 
Business Manager: Allen Stoltzfus x2594, SCH 4208
Asst. Bus. Mgr.: Elaine Ross x2595, SCH 4210 
Dir. of Reseach Facilities: Howard Wactlar x2571, SCH 3202 
Chief Operator: Kenneth Wertz x3650, SCH 3128 
Project Managers: Hugh Applewhite x3728, SCH 4609 
Henry Mashbum x2590, SCH 8126 
Communication Specialist: Cynthia Hibbard x2592, SCH 4218
Mathematics
Head: George Fix x2545, SCH 6117
Assoc. Head: Richard Moore x2545, SCH 6105
Admin. Asst.: Nancy Colmer Schaub x2545, SCH 6116
Physics
Assoc. Dean MCS/Physics: Richard Edelstein x3090, SCH 7305 
Chairman, Physics: Raymond Sorensen x2770, SCH 8418 
Admin. Asst.: Thelma Boggs x2740, SCH 7325 
Business Administrator Theodore Morris x2733, SCH 7319 
Scientific Project Admin.: Joseph Rudman x2775, DH 328 
Supervisor of Stores: Edward Steffy x2753, SCH 7415 
Machine Shop Supervisor: Joseph Sadecky x2780, DH 330 
Lab Supervisor Scanning Lab: Anna Marie Bloom x2775, DH
Post College Professional Education
Director: Frank Edward Nowak x2207, MMC 405 
Asst. Dir.: Kay Mulroy x2209, MMC 405H
Robotics Institute
Director: D. Raj Reddy x2597, SCH 8130 
Admin. Asst.: Beverly Howell x2572, SCH 8127 
Business Manager: Mary Anne Jarvik x3611, SCH 8120
New housing, food service plans announced
ontinued from page 1
)ollars Spent........................................Discount
-100.............................................................................0
01-200 ................................................................... 4%
01-400 ................................................................... 6%
ver 400 ................................................................... 8%
Marsella pointed out that the majority of 
he students spend between $200 and $400 
>n Vali-Dine per semester and these people 
vould benefit by the increase from the 5% 
liscount that is offered this year to a 6% 
liscount.
Contract plans will also be offered next 
chool year at a cost of roughly 15% less 
han this years plan according to Marsella.
Under the new contract system, food will 
not be measured by points as it is this year, 
but instead cash equivalences will be used 
much the same way contract holders by food 
at the Tartan Grill this year. Using cash 
equivalences, a student may purchase a 
specified dollar amount of food at the Tar
tan Grill, Salads Plus, or More Pizza. Mar
sella said that if a large number of students 
sign up for contract plans, the university is 
considering converting one half of the Kiltie 
Cafe into unlimited meals which would be 
for the use of contract holders only.
Phone campaign successful
continued from page 8
We are grateful. Student participation was 
essential to our success.
The money received in this campaign has
If your career options look something like this:
Butcher,baker,
candelstickmaker.
Or Rich man.
Poor man,
Beggerman,
Thief,
Doctor,
Lawyer,
Indian chief.
Come hear Sandra Desbow, Assistant Dean 
and Director of Admissions at the University of 
Pittsburgh School of Law discuss one .option..
Wednesday, March 11 
8:00 p.m., Skibo 11
*Sponsored by the Law Club of CMU*
funded by your activities fee
been designated for the CMU fund. The 
fund is reserved for annual donations from 
alumni, faculty, and staff, friends of the 
university, and parents. In 1979-80 the CMU 
fund raised $1,800,000 from various sources. 
Money from the fund is slated for needed 
capital improvements. Examples of 
instances in which fund monies have been 
used include the cleaning of the Fine Arts 
building, the new windows in Morewood 
Gardens, and extensive classroom 
renovation.
In addition to the regular Phon-A-Thon, 
senior design students were able to obtain 
109 pledges for a total of $2109 by calling 
alumni. This money is specifically targeted 
towards meeting the cost of putting on the 
Senior Design Show.
Margaret Morrison is now the home erf SUPA.
MMCC History
continued from page 17
successful pursuit as any other. Drudgery is 
not imprisoned in the household; there are 
arid stretches of routine in the practice of 
every profession. Superior achievement in 
the home and in the professional world 
requires essentially the same qualities: men
tal and emotional maturity; the ability to 
master new knowledge and solve new prob
lems as they arise; skill in effective commun
ication; and above all, sensitivity to other 
human beings.
The persons making these declarations were 
quite serious; they reflected the attitudes of 
the time. Women were just emerging as 
important facets of the work force. ' '
Interesting Notes:
Statistics between 1936 amd 1950 showed 
that this mixture of housewife and profes
sionals was in the minds of many of the 
girls. Three-fourths of those attending 
MMCC during this time were engaged; 
however, 80% of these same girls accepted 
jobs. Others went on to graduate school. 
Here we see the woman dividing herself 
between a career and a family. The survey 
showed that less than one-fourth of these 
same girls were employed 5 years later.
Sorority development on campus was 
deterred because of restictions set by Dean 
Bred that her girls would not be involved in 
such activities. From 1918-1922 any girl 
caught becoming affiliated with such an 
organization was dismissed.
Win a dream vacation for 2 at the^V IJP
M1Ce-/*THONFriday, April 10th 
at all 3 Pgh. area V.I.P.S
V.I.P. Bridgeville, V.I.P. Baden.
& V.I.P. Hampton
Proceeds from the Dance-A-Thon will 
help support the
OF, 
PITTSBURGH
Winners will be seen on the Variety Club Telethon 
April 12th on Channel 11.
Prizes include a Dream Vacation for 2, stereo 
equipment, and waterbeds.
To enter the Dance-A-Thon all you need are 
sponsors willing to help you raise money for a 
very worthy cause.
For more details call: 
Kathy Miller at 221-4661.

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1981The TartanPage 21
ReZOLND
CASSETTE COPYING CENTERS
emu bookstore*
Dick Gregory fasts for Atlanta murders
HAIRCUTS 
(Wash-Cut-Slow)12
Mon. Tues. Wad. 10*7 
Thors, ftrl. 10-9
Sat. 9-6
COLORINO
117 A tweed Street 
Acre the street fro 
Oeli lend Post Office 
**7-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PfRMANKNTS
2500
I 
No Appointments
Now: Copy cassette tapes yourseli-any length Fast: Copy a one-hour 
cassette in less than 2 minutes Slmplo: Easy as xeroxing a letter Inoxpensir: Our remarkably low price includes the Rezound .Copy Cassette" 
Accurato: Guaranteed perfect monaural copies, every time Versatilo:  
Make 1, 2, 3. or 100 copies of: lectures, seminars, language labs, meet
ings, college classes, sermons, sales messages, weddings, interviews, talk
ing letters, family events, relaxation, word-processing data & comput
er programs
by L. Vemon Valentine
If asked to summarize the content of Dick 
Gregorys lecture to a crowded ballroom on 
Wednesday, March 4th, one would have to 
realize the difficulty of the task. Touching 
on an array of topics from the current 
Atlanta murders to the recent American 
hostage issue and from abortion to social 
conditioning, Gregory disseminated many 
facts and theories which virtually left 
listeners in a daze.
Most interesting of Gregorys theories 
regards the current Atlanta Murder 
Mystery which has the Adanta community 
baffled and fearful. Theyd like you to 
believe there is a racist doing the crimes, 
Gregory stated before offering his 
hypothesis on the affair. In essence, he 
believes that the murders are direcdy related 
to the need for an expensive cancer cure 
called interferon, which can only be 
extracted from human blood.
Gregory noted that of the first nineteen
children, seventeen have been males 
between the ages of six and seventeen. He 
added that these children were reported 
missing between three and five in the 
afternoon, and that sixteen of the seventeen 
males were exceptionally bright students. 
With these preliminary facts he reduced the 
credibility of the notion that the vicums 
were being brutally abducted or slyly coaxed 
away.
Gregory then noted that the best types of 
interferon comes from blood which has 
sickle cell traits (characteristic only of 
Blacks), and that the optimum samples of 
these are extracted from the head of the penis 
of males between ages five and seventeen.
Finally, Gregory stated that both the 
National Institute for Health and the Center 
For Disease Control are both located in 
Atlanta, and that the latter has thus far been 
unable to explain its role in the murder 
investigation. He further proposes that the 
few discovered skeletons are decoys, for
two of the remains found were in one case 
two inches longer and in another case three 
inches shorter than the actual height of the 
vicims they were supposed to have come 
from.
Gregory intends to travel to the West 
Coast to confront the Center for Disease 
Control with his facts and his theory 
sometime this week. The entertainer is 
fasung undl the truth of the murders is 
revealed.
Regarding other current news issues, 
Gregory discussed the string of hotel fires in 
Las Vegas. After disclaiming the medias 
statement the the fires were unrelated, 
Gregory expressed doubt that one person 
could be responsible for a fire which 
reportedly broke out on four floors 
simultaneously (the MGM Hotel). In a 
similar fashion, Gregory discussed the 
recent murder of John Lennon. Without 
accusing anyone, he noted something 
strange about the affair. First, that all
Kathy Hrahovsky wins $2500 travel award
by Kathy McGinley
This summer, junior Architecture major 
Kathy Hrabovsky will do something that at 
least 17 other junior women had only 
dreamed of doing. She will travel and study 
abroad. Specifically, Kathy will study and 
design in Athens and several Greek islands 
during an eight week program sponsored by 
Cornell University.
This opportunity was made possible for 
her with the help of the Vira I. HeinzTravel 
Award. Kathy was one of 18 applicants for 
the award that offers $2500 to a junior 
woman at CMU to travel and study abroad 
the summer between her junior and senior
years.
The program that she will attend will 
enable her to leam about ancient Greek 
architecture as well as the problems of indus
trialization and urban development in 
Greece. According to Kathy, analysis of the 
nature of theiT problems and their soluuons 
will be valuable in solving the problems I 
am faced with in the design studio at CMU, 
and eventually in the professional world.
The 11 credit hours include a choice of 
electives from several disciplines, such as 
sculpture, history, and acousucs. The pro
gram includes . three weeks touring the
Greek islands, one and one-half weeks stud
ying the Peloponnesian Peninsula, two 
weeks on the island of Poros, and one and 
one-half weeks in Athens.
Kathy will also be designing the program. 
She comments: A design studio in Greece 
will provide me with the unique opportun
ity to immediately apply what I leam.
Indeed, Kathy will have a unique oppor
tunity to apply the education that she has 
received here at CMU. Speaking for those 
who evaluated and chose her to receive the 
award, as well as for many others who heard 
the presentation of her program, she 
deserves it.
photo by Robert Zusman 
Dick Gregory returned to CMU on March 4.
witnesses only heard four shots, when 
Lennon was reportedly shot seven times, 
and further that Lennon was shot seven 
times with a six-shooter pistol.
The celebrity also spent time speaking on 
the American hostage issue, rebuking the 
medias attempt to make the hostages heroes 
while ignoring true heroes like the Vietnam 
Veterans or American Indians. Said 
Gregory, Tie a yellow ribbon around an 
Indian Reservation if youd like to honor 
some real heroes.
In conclusion, Gregory implored the 
gathering to take care of your bodies, 
adding that whatever it takes to turn things 
around it must begin with you. Any doubt 
of the interest stimulated by the human 
rights activist was eliminated when a 
sizeable crowd detained him with questions 
for a half hour after his speech.
The event, funded by Student Senate, was 
sponsored by SPIRIT organization.
At Great "X were looking ahead with something that will keep you coming back again and again.
Hair cutters that listen.

---------------------------------------------------

KRESKIN!
Activities Board presents the mind 
boggling Kreskin, one of the world's 
foremost mentalists on Tuesday, 
March 10 at 8 pm in the Skibo 
Ballroom. Make up your brain to see 
the amazing Kreskin, and bear witness 
to his remarkable powers of ESP. For 
only 25$, he'll blow your mind.
Funded by student activities fee.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Camegie-Mellon launches the first New Play Festival
by Adam Lauzar
If Carnegie-Mellon can, in the next few 
years, become the vital center for a rebirth of 
the playwright in America, we will be more 
than happy, seeing in it not just a kind of 
poetic justice but also a sign of the renewal 
of general health in the American theater. 
-James L. Rosenberg
The New Play Festival, sponsored by the 
Drama Department of CMU, makes its 
debut when the curtain rises on the first of 
eleven new plays on March 16th and con
tinues through April 4th. The Drama 
Department will stage nine new full-length 
plays and three one acts written by graduate 
playwrighting students, in eleven nights.
The arrival of the New Play Festival 
reflects the strong emphasis placed on culti
vating new American plays and playwrights 
by Mel Shapiro, Head of the Drama 
Department.
For eleven days, the Festival will display 
the talent and crafts needed to make a pro
duction a smooth, finished product. The 
Drama Department hopes that the Festival 
will become, not only an annual event, but 
one of national importance.
James L. Rosenberg, Professor of Drama, 
who teaches the second vear graduate course 
in Playwrighting, and also Dramatic Litera
ture and Theater History, states that the 
chief premise underlying the Festival is sim
ple: that the playwright, as the only begetter 
of plays, should be at the center of the crea
tive process in the theater, not, as is usually
the case today, on the fringes or completely 
detached from it.
According to Rossenberg, our (playw
righting) students, work daily in close rela
tionship with student actors, directors, and 
designers. In the Festival, they are expected
to involve themselves in every step of the 
theatrical process; from early rewrites in 
consultation with the director, through cast
ing^ and rehearsals, and on up to the plays 
final production before a critical public. 
Shapiro has put together a special advi
From left to right: CMUs Playwrights: John Homer, Jack Rowley, Charles Waxberg, 
Christopher Esposito, Douglas Soderberg, Ruth Lesko, Bob Henry, Ann Curran, Eugene 
Pawlikowsky, F.J. Hartland, Professor of Drama Jim Rosenberg. Not pictured here is Steve 
Wardwell.
sory board composed of renowned produc
ers, playwrights, actors, professors, and 
CMU alumni, just for the New Play Festi
val. The board which is chaired by Ed Gif
ford includes: David Ball, Associate 
Professor of Drama at CMU; Dennis Cun
ningham, (Ph.D., CMU 70s), Arts Editor, 
WCBS-TV, New York; John Guare, playw
right; Katherine Helmond, actress, teacher, 
Jessica Tate of ABC series, Soap; Biff Liff, 
agent; Claire Nichtem; John Ford Noonan, 
playwright; James Rosenberg, Professor of 
Drama; Mel Shapiro, Professor of Drama, 
and Head of the Department of Drama at 
CMU; and Bud Yorkin, television producer.
Bud Yorkin, T.V. producer (All in the 
Family, Maude), and CMU alumnus, is 
offering $10,000 in prize money to the most 
promising and talented directors and playw
rights. The First Annual Bud Yorkin 
Awards, which w'ere just recently estab
lished, will be presented on April 4th, the 
concluding night of the Festival. Yorkin 
will be here to present the awards to the 
winners in person.
The prospect of success will make the 
event an exciting and interesting one to 
watch and remember. CMU has sent many 
directors, actors, designers, and playwrights 
to Broadway. In the past theater season in 
New York, Camegie-Mellon playwrights 
presented three works: Modigliani by Den
nis Mclntyne; The Interview by Thom Tho
mas, and A Coupla White Chicks Sitting 
Around Talking by John Ford Noonan.
Festival schedule: The playwrights and their plays
Dum-de-dum-de-dum-de-die
by Ann Curran
Dum-de-dum-de-dum-de-die is a study in 
irony. A woman with specific medical prob
lems makes three visits to the hospital. On 
each occason, she is placed with a patient or 
on a floor altogether inappropriate in view 
of her problems. The one-act play briefly 
touches on such questions as infertility and 
abortion, racial prejudice, impersonal and 
inept hospital personnelall with a darkly 
comic point of view.
Jumpstreet
by Stephen Wardwell
Jumpstreet is a play about the experiences 
of women in prison.
A Piano Player With Sad 
Brown Eyes
by F. J. Hartland
Of his play, A Piano Player With sad 
Brown Eyes, Hartland comments: Often, 
Im asked what my play is about, and Im 
always tempted to say about 56 pages. 
Instead, I usually give a watered-down ver
sion of the plot. A Piano Player With Sad 
Brown Eyes is about a number of things. I 
wanted to write about families, about love 
and about out personal hopes. In other 
words, Ive tried to look at our hearts and all 
the secrets we keep there.
Perhaps my old and dear friend Vanessa 
Ghalfant summed up A Piano Player With 
Sad Brown Eyes best when she said, But if I 
dont keep hoping for a happy ending, how 
would I put up with everything that isnt 
nght. Without a piano player to hope for, 
theres no sense in going on, is there? 
A First Step
by Bob Henry
A First Step is, in the playwrights words, 
a touching, modem comedy wherein three 
dividuals face life, love and each other.
Big and Little
by John Homer
Of Big and Little, Homer writes: One 
night while walking the streets of Oakland, 
I was surprised by a tingling sensation in my 
knucklesnot unlike Snoopys tingling 
teeth. I had the sensation that I needed to hit 
someone or something soon, Fortunately, I 
have always been a physical coward and the 
streets were quite deserted. Instead of strik
ing anything or anyone, I returned home 
and let the occasion prey upon my mind and 
eventually wrote this play.
All Together Now
by Eugene Pawlikowski
In All Together Now, a GI about to be 
shipped to Vietnam falls in love with a Hare 
Krishna devotee. He is tom between making 
love and making war. The tragi-comedy 
also examines the effect of impersonal istitutions on the lives of individuals.
Modem Love
by Douglas Soderberg
Soderberg describes Modem Love as a 
strange but sincere love story. He writes: 
A lot of people will wonder why I chose to 
write about a fourteen-year-old girl. As I see 
it, a woman that age is almost mythic; shes 
bold and unashamed in her emotions, much 
more so than an older person. Her resulting 
precocity can easily be used as a dramatic 
tool. Men, I think, get in touch with their 
feelings at a later age, around twenty or so, 
and by that time, theyve learned to rational
ize them or keep them will-hidden. I tend to 
write about things people dont really talk 
about. Thats an easy excuse for trying to 
write a play. The hard part is to make it all 
seem natural.
Finals Week
by Jack Rowley, Jr.
Finals Week, a musical with music, book, 
and lyrics by Rowley, is a light and laugh
ing look at life on campus.
Surviving Spouse
by Ruth Garland Lesko
Surviving Spouse is a comedy about a 
middle-aged woman who loses her husband 
to a younger woman. The play dramatizes 
her adjustment as she copes with zany rela
tives, a clergyman courter and her exhusbands new child.
Children in a Stone
by Christopher Esposito
Children in a Stone is a drama in two acts.
A Partridge in a Pear Tree
by Charles S. Waxberg
A Partridge in a Pear Tree is a drama 
about a college seniors attempt to success
fully pack away and organize his memories 
and belongings in order to step from the 
safety of his dormitory sanctuary into the ral 
world. Literally and metaphorically, he 
must discard the garbage and reatain the 
treasures.
Info on plays provided 
Department
by Drama
Monday, March 168:20 p.m.Bill of One Acts
Partridge in a Pear Tree 
Dum De Dum De...Die 
Big and Little
Tuesday, March 178:20 p.m.A Piano Player with Sad 
Brown Eyes
Wednesday, March 188:20 p.m.Tribal Warfare 
And Direct the Storm
Thursday, March 194:20 p.m.Children in a Stone
8:20 p.m.All Together Now
Friday, March 204:20 p.m.Finals Week
8:20 p.m.Jumpstreet
Saturday, March 214:20 par..Surviving Spouse
8:20 p.m.Modem Love
Monday, March 308:20 pan.Bill of One Acts 
Partridge in a Pear Tree 
Dum De Dum De . Die 
Big and Littie
Tuesday, March 318:20 p.m.A Piano Player with Sad 
Brown Eyes
Wednesday, April 18:20 p.m.Tribal Warfare 
And Direct the Storm
Thursday, April 24:20 pin.All Together Now
8:20 pan.Children in a Stone
Friday, April 34:20 p.m.Jumpstreet
8:20 p.m.Surviving Spouse
Saturday, April 44:20 pan.Modem Love
8:20 pan.Finals Week

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanMarch 10, 1981
Coffeehouse: Make Believe Ballroom set to swing
Left to right George Gee, Sarah Donan, Michael Connor and the Band.
The Fools will play this
by Pete Levin
On Saturday, March 14, SDC Concerts 
will present The Fools, with special guests 
The Silencers. The concert will be held in 
the CMU gym; with tickets being sold at 
Skibo Information desk, University of Pitts
burgh Ticket Office, and National Record 
Marts for $3.00 with a CMU ID and $5.00 for 
non-students.
The Fools, a five man band that hails 
from Boston, are the type of band that prom
oters hate to put a label on. They play punk 
with the best, and new wave is second 
nature. On the other hand, just plain rock 
n roll coming from The Fools is much
more than plain. The Fools opened for 
Blondie and went on tour with The Knack 
last year, sponsored by EMI America.
Recently, The Fools decided it was time to 
strike out on their own, and with hit singles 
Psycho Chicken (a parody on the Talking 
Heads hit), Its a Night for Beautiful 
Girls, and their most recent release off of 
their second album Runnin Scared, 
which made Billboards Top 100 the first 
week of its release, they have started to climb 
the ladder of success.
SDC Concerts chairman Josh Lavinsky is 
very excited about the concert. He feels that 
the concert will afford CMU the opportunby Kathy Barsom
Be prepared to dance to the sound of 
swing when Mr. George Gee and his Make 
Believe Ballroom Orchestra recreate the For
ties in Skibos Grande Ballroom on March
15. Bandleader Gee, who cites Glenn Miller 
as his biggest influence, will lead his group 
through twenty or so numbers beginning at 
8 PM.
The 18 member band, composed entirely 
of CMU students, will perform old favorites 
by Tommy Dorsey, Artie Shaw, and Count 
Basie.
Five vocalists will accompany the band 
on various numbers, including Chatta
nooga Choo Choo. Featured in the even
ings performance will be male lead singer 
Michael Conner, female singer Sarah 
Donan, and a three part harmony group of 
Chris Smith, Debbie Buell, and Tammy 
Dieter, known as the Moonlight Serenaders. 
Featured musicians will include Dave
weekend
ity to gain notoriety among some of the 
larger agents, (The Fools were booked 
through William and Morris of New York) 
which means better concerts in the future. 
With the help of Anne Witchner of Student 
Activities, Lavinsky has spent many hours 
creating publicity for The Fools.
This is the type of concert that needs a lot 
more work than most, Lavinsky explained, 
because the group is well known in New 
England, not Pittsburgh. He promises 
that, if you havent heard of The Fools by 
March 14, you will know and love them 
after their concert here.
Kaplowitz on the tenor sax, Craig Madge on 
alto, Milt Orkin on trombone, and Scott 
Jackson on trumpet. Though the group is 
comprised of many aspiring musicians and 
vocalists, not all are music majors.
George G.s Big Band made its debut last 
year during Spring Carnival and, according 
to Mr. G., have improved tremendously over 
the past year. In preparation for their March
15 Coffeehouse performance and their 
impending appearance at the H&SS Spring 
Fling, the emsemble has been rehearsing 
once a week for the past two months.
George Gee, a junior, currently enrolled 
in AMS, feels that he owes everything to the 
band. The band is the whole thing; Im just 
the conductor. The band members are the 
coolest cats. In fact, Gee is so committed to 
the band and the present revival of the big 
band era, that he has used his own money 
plus that of interested investors to get the 
show on the road.
In the recent past, Gee spent time in the 
Big Apple pursuing various musical endea
vors; presently he hosts a radio show featur
ing The Big Band sound of the 40s on 
WRCT. The bandleader insists that he 
loves the music, survives on the music of 
the swinging Forties.
After listening to the band rehearse it 
became apparent that Mr. G.s love for the 
40s sound is contagious. You can catch the 
bug at the AB sponsored Coffeehouse and 
see for yourself why George Gee and his Big 
Band are one of the prides of CamegieMellon. Come prepared to swing!
Suri&yl'fosque
7'1?p m'Tickets tooproceeds <jo to chantaoon satr^arch fl, to8l at Skibo Information flesk

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1981The TartanPage 25
this college ring sale had to be perfect for Vo
aimere diifcuit. "Never ate vegetable's,she said.' paring for you was a cough assignment tough as our toughest customer: Our rings re ajstonb-f acked by a lifetime warranty <\120 on our SHadrum^ rings (new only S84.95). And ff I id about a college ring, we can make your decision easy fi get  mrnc deal wNfn you Bade in your ?{* gold hit
jse from dozens <&stytes fcfe've got something for the f| ig stu< lent Cven yfett. . 1
i*usThankyourWl^her \
Tues & Wed., March ip & 11
*cmu bocKiU
The Publics Tangles is riddled with knots
by Adam Lauzar
The opening of Tangles, a new American 
play by Robert Litz, which marks the first 
world premier production by the Pittsburgh 
public Theater since its inaugural season 
six years ago was both a success and a disap
pointment. The fact that the Pittsburgh 
Public Theater has gained enough stability 
and support from patrons to dare a world 
premier production is a great success. The 
disappointment is in the play itself.
Playwright Litz, who has written five fulllength plays, had a play Mobile Hymn pres
ented as a workshop production last spring 
in the Publics New Play Program, and is a 
finalist in the 1980 ONeill Playwrights 
Conference, gives us a play concerning love 
and life in modem America that is uneven, 
superficial, and at times unbelievable.
As the play opens we meet Stan (Stephen 
Mark Weyte) and Phil (Terry Layman) two 
typical working guys who share an apart
ment. Both of them are complaining about 
their relationships with the women they are 
currently seeing. Phil, a clerk, explains how 
he has been open and honest with his girl
friend Charlene (Dawn Davis), but for all his 
troubles is still in the midst of a deteriorating 
relationship. Apparently Charlene doesnt 
want an open, honest relationship. Stans 
complaint is that his boss/lover Lynn (Mon
ica Merryman) a research scientist is more 
interested in her work than in Stan.
Cliche spouting caricatures
Switching to Lynns apartment, we find, 
her ridiculously enough, being bullied, 
overwhelmed, and fast-talked into letting a 
Califomia-type hippyish waif share her
apartment. Dehlia (Amy Van Nostrand) is 
the plays lost soul. She swears by yogurt, 
granola, yoga, the health-food life, and is 
prone to accepting dogma that one might 
obtain from studying Im Okay, Youre 
Okay. Dehlia is an old and much stereo
typed freaked out character that Litz does no 
justice to. Instead of creating a believable, 
full bodied character with real emotions, he 
gives in to a caricature that spouts cliches.
The five characters run us through the 
gamut of romantic and platonic relations. 
The plays weakness lies in its characters. 
Stan and Lynn dont seem a likely pair; 
Lynn is smart, attractive, has a rising career 
in science, and Stan is like a shlamiel from 
Welcome Back Rotter. An anti-intellectual 
sort, he likes to sit in front of a T.V. and 
dnnk beers, eat pizza and down junkfood. 
Its just not believable when yourre told 
theyre attracted to one another. Stan turns 
to joking when faced with any problem or 
confrontation. He continually tries to con
vince Lynn that her work shouldnt be ever
ything, but offers her no restitution.
Unfolding before us is a story of musical - 
lovers. Phil goes from Charlene to Dehlia to 
no one.. In between these rotating alliances 
we learn little about the characters and their 
motivations. Stan and Lynn illuminate the 
modem theme of the career woman and the 
not so liberated, threatened man, but ques
tions go unanswered, unresolved.
Phil and Dehlias romance revels in its 
wide-open, ultra-consciousness that is so 
over played that one tends to immediately 
cringe whenever they speak.
Appearing sporadically, Charlene seems
Rewards. Respect. 
Sound Management 
Growth. Credibility. Direction.
Without a doubt, youve heard these words plenty of 
times. Some people call them "buzz words because 
theyre supposed to draw your attention.
At Signetics, we do more than simply attract you with 
impressive sounding words.
We make them come to life.
We re setting the pace for the 80s in the semi
conductor industry.
Well be on campus 
Friday, April 3.
For information about opportunities in California, Utah 
and New Mexico, take time to review the Signetics 
Recruitment Binder which you will find in your Placement 
Center. Or, write to Signetics College Relations, 
Opportunity CP81,811 East Arques Avenue, Sunnyvale, 
CA 94086. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
Permanent residency visa preferred.
The Good people company
Dawn Davis (Charlene) and Stephan Mark Weyte (Stan) are featured in the Pitts. Public 
Theaters world premier production of Tangles, by Robert Litz, being performed now 
through April 12.
a subsidiary ot U.S. Philips Corporation
are gone that they really were never friends 
but had just been hanging along with their 
boyfriends. Its a revealing, touching scene. 
There are also some very funny lines but 
theyre too far inbetween and too few. The 
funniest gag running through the play 
involved Stans obsession with pizza.
Director Ben Shaktman (Artistic Director 
of the P.P.T.) keeps the pace quick and 
snappy. The actors do their best with the 
material presented. The stage design and 
sets are very economical yet clever and mod
em. A parachuting scene is done imagina
tively with special effects. The play never 
suffers because it drags. It suffers because of 
the shallowness of the material and the 
underdeveloped characters.
to be a victim of her own passivity. She can 
neither control her life or relationships.
Everything in the play is so typical in fact, 
that Litz tends to use our own familiarity 
with these problems to bring us dirough 
revelations, instead of developing the char
acters enough to react or come to terms with 
emotions. This lack of depth and reality in 
the characters tends to make everything far
cical. We lose our patience, and are incredu
lous with lines like Life is not one long dry 
heave ya know.
There is one good scene, between Lynn 
and Charlene that hits the mark. The two 
women, brought together because of the 
men they are dating, realize after their men

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanMarch 10, 1981
Puccinis Tosca performed at Pittsburgh opera
by Timothy LeVan
Puccinis Tosca was performed last wee
kend at the Pittsburgh Opera with moderate 
success. The Operas viability is, luckily, 
based on the talents of Tosca and Scarpia. 
Both roles were sung with ample voice and 
dramatic skill.
Tosca (Nicole Lorange) was a vocally and 
histionically secure performer. Her ability to 
portray her great love for Mario Cavaradossi 
and her constant torment caused by Scarpia 
were superbly portrayed.
Her famous Vissi darte was her reigining achievement for the evening, although 
her high B flat and A flat were somewhat 
thin in contrast to the rich texture of the 
remainder of her voice.
Scarpia (Peter Gossip) also performed his 
Iago-like role with proper dignity and vil
lainy. Except for one vampiric leap at Toscas throat (intended to be a lustful 
moment), which brought a chuckle from 
the audience, Mr. Gossip believably played 
the demonic role convincingly.
Mario Cavaradossi (Alfonso Navarrete) 
was a dissappointment. Because of a voice 
not large enough for Heinz Hall, and exag
gerated melodramatic acung style, and a 
basic lack of musical nuance, he/we 
suffered.
Lee Cass (CMU Associate Professor of 
Voice) excellently acted and securely sung 
Cersaie Angelotu. CMU Graduate Opera 
Student Robert Ferrier sang and portrayed 
the jailer well; an important step in his 
climb up the ladder to bigger roles.
The Sacristan (Italo Tajo), Spoletta (Ron 
Gentry), Sciarrone (Tom Anzalone), and the 
Shepherd (Ethel Merrihew) sang their small 
roles with ample abilities.
The sets, a different one for each act, wrere 
a great factor in the visual beauty of the 
opera.
David Morelock, stage director, should 
also be greatly acclaimed for his articulate, 
empethetic direction of this opera, one of 
Puccinis greatest.
The orchestra, under Theo Alcantara, 
played the score well, except for the seem
ingly obligatory (or at least expected) blats 
and bleats from the high brass.
Costumes and lighting were also effective 
and beautiful. Toscas velvet gowns were 
most awe inspiring and the slow partial 
sunrise in the last act was very impressive, 
yet subtle.
The Pittsburgh Opera ends its season 
March 19 and 21 with Mozarts comical mas
terpiece, The Marriage of Figaro, sung in 
English. Tickets are available by calling the 
Pittsburgh Opera box office at 281-0912 or 
281-1279.
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center
ABORTION
 free pregnancy tests
 confidential counseling
WOMENS HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
 non-profit modlcol facility
And well be sending 
unmistakable career signals to you on Monday, March 16th.
If you are an EE, Computer Science, Computer Engineering, 
Applied Math or Physics graduate in search of a thoroughly 
uncommonplace career environment, talk to HRB-Singer 
when were on campus.
As a leader in the intellectually rigorous, quiet business of 
conceiving, developing, building and supporting total systems 
that collect, process, analyze and report signal information 
from all sources, we work many years ahead of commercial 
state-of-the-art. Few fields of on-going scientific and 
engineering endeavor are as stimulating.
Yet in spite of our successesand a sales growth thats doubled 
in the past 3 yearswe will describe an operation thats 
relatively small, flexibly structured, and highly supportive. 
And well tell you about the total systems involvement, and 
realistic career progressions you can expect in any one of 
these 5 areas: Systems Engineering; Signal Analysis and 
Systems Analysis; Software Design and Development; Equip
ment Design and Development; and Programs Management.
If thisT-and a location in State College, PA combining small
town friendliness with the educational and recreational 
resources associated with Penn State Universitysounds 
interesting, schedule an interview through your 
Placement Office.
SINGER
HRB-SINGER, INC.
We listen.
An equal opportunity employer
listen.We

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Frisbee Club 
sets marathon
CMU ends with 9-5 record, Hofmeister on All-PAC
by Wes SeeleyHofmeisters tremendousperformance.CMU Final StatsFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
The Tartan basketball team, whichHofmeister scored 28 points and pulled
struggled through December with a 2-6down 15 rebounds, totally dominating playJoe Belechak134-31571-91339
record, then won six straight games in Januunder both baskets. As happened in so manyDave Hofmeister126-22366-110318
ary, finished the year at 9-5 in the Presidentsgames down the stretch, the Tartans got toBuddy Hobart92-22056-74240
Athletic Conference and 11-11 overall bywithin a few points of their opponent butCarl Mulac85-14137-63207
splitting their twro final games of the season.could never pull even and, in the end, had toDan Donahoe95-21112-16202
The Plaid opened their final week by dumpsend Bethany to the foul line.Pete Bennett43-10119-28105
ing Washington and Jefferson, 67-64, atHofmeisters efforts capped a fine seasonJohn Lewis15-328-1138
Skibo Gym before dropping the seasonsin which he won the conference reboundingKevin Resnik2-20-04
finale to Bethany, 84-74, at the Alumni Fieldtitle, was named PAC Player of the WeekRandy Hudson2-50-24
House at Bethany, WV.in January, and was selected to the All-P ACEd Novak1-30-02
Against the Presidents, CMU fell behindfirst team. Belechak, the Tartans leading
early thanks to the hot shooting of Davescorer, was an honorable mention to theTOTALS611-1284275-4051497
Damico, who had ten in the half. Dave Hof-squad.
meister put in eight first half points to keepSeason Results
the Tartans close but it took a 55-foot heaveThe All-P AC TeamsPAC Games
by Pete Bennett at the buzzer to bring CMUJan. 14CMUvs.Thiel54-49W(A)
to within a point, 32-31, at intermission.FIRST TEAMSCHOOLJan. 17CMUvs.Case Western72-65W(H)
In the second half, seniors Hofmeister andJim Paige (F)BethanyJan. 21CMUvs.John Carroll80-66w(A)
Joe Belechak scored 17 of his game high 24Phil Murphy (F)AlleghenyJan. 24CMUvs.Allegheny75-64w(A)
points, to lead the Plaid home to victory.Dave Apthorpe (F)HiramJan. 28CMUvs.Wash-Jeff65-64w(A)
Washington and Jefferson put four playersDave Hofmeister (C)CMUJan. 31CMUvs.Hiram75-72w(H)
in double figures but couldnt catch up.John Colombo (G)John CarrollFeb. 4CMUvs.Bethany58-57L(H)
Freshman Dave Miklasevich added ten forFeb. 7CMUvs.Case Western (OT)52-59W(A)
CMU.SECOND TEAMSCHOOLFeb. 12CMUvs.Thiel61-10W(H)
In the Bethany game, the final game forDarryl Dawson (F)AlleghenyFeb. 14CMUvs.Allegheny91-72L(H)
seniors Buddy Hobart, Hofmeister and BelePete Winovich (C)BethanyFeb. 18CMUvs.John Carroll70-68L(A)
chak, the Tartans ran into Bethanys FredMike Pratt (G)Wash-JeffFeb. 21CMUvs.Hiram64-62L(A)
Gongola and Jim Paige, w ho scored 25 andFred Gongola (G)BethanyFeb. 24CMUvs.Wash-Jeff67-64W(H)
22 points respectively, and lost 84-74, despiteKen Jackson (G)Case ReserveFeb. 26CMUvs.Bethany84-74L(A)
Intramural Night & Banquet coming up
by Leslie Weiser
The big day for intramurals is almost 
here. Intramural Night will be this Friday, 
March 13. The champions in each IM sport 
will be awarded trophies for their outstand
ing performances. So champions, get ready 
to be recognized. The intramural banquet is 
close at hand top. Save Tuesday, April 28, on 
your calendars. It will be held in Skibo, 
Room 100.
As for s|x>rts in season, the schedule for 
basketball playoffs is posted on the IM bul
letin board. Please get all the regularly sche
duled games played. The games scheduled 
for Thursday, March 12, will be played at 
4:30 and 5:30 p.m.
The bridge schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office. Bridge boards 
may be checked out with commissioner Eric 
Ilieis, phone 682-9580. All matches will be 
played at the Theta Xi house.
The Faculty Bull Dogs remain unde
feated in handball. Captain Tom McNulty 
was elected M.V.P. in handball for 1981 by
all of his teammates.
Water basketball schedules are out and 
may be picked up in the IM office. The 
home team, the team written on the left, is 
responsible for providing a certified life 
guard and the game equipment. Both teams 
playing the final game of the evening must 
put away all the equipment used during the 
game. The commissioner is Gary Petrosky, 
phone 578-4005.
The second round of weightlifting was 
held yesterday. For additional information, 
rail Ken Murawsky, phone 578-4666.
Table tennis schedules for both singles 
and doubles are now out and can be picked 
up in the IM office. Please get all the games 
played as they are scheduled and report the 
scores to commissioner Glenn Rosenthal, 
phone 683-386-1 or 682-9166.
Individual call pool schedules are out and 
can be picked up in the IM office. Les Joel of 
kappa Sigma is commissioner and can be 
reached at 683-8630.
Today at 4:30 p.m. is the first round of
basketball foul shooting. Ten players shoot 
fifty shots each, then the top five shoot a 
second fifty shots. Winners will be in five 
person team and individual categories. The 
finals will be held Wednesday, March 11, at 
4;30 p.m. Bob Dudas,'phone 682-6133, is 
commissioner.
A list of events for the IM swimming meet 
is posted on the IM bulletin board. The meet 
will be held on Wednesday, March 18, at 
4:30 p.m. in the CMU pool. It is post entry 
but a swimmer may enter two relays and one 
individual event, or two individual events 
and one relay, for a total of three events. The 
meet is next week so make up your teams 
now. The commissioner is Rob Uber.
Entries are due March 12 in fencing, com
missioner Jane Fisk, phone 578-2220; soft
ball, commissioners Mike Pochan and Wes 
Seeley, phone 687-8043; and team badmin
ton, which still needs a commissioner.
The next meeting of the intramural board 
will be Thursday, March 19, at 12:30 p.m. in 
Room 104, Gym.
Intramural basketball playoffs take place 
this week.
by Monica J. Cellio
The CMU Frisbee Club and Lambda 
Sigma will be co-sponsoring a 45 hour 
frisbee marathon this weekend in order to 
raise money for the Muscular Dystrophy 
Foundation. The marathon will feature 18 
CMU frisbee throwers, most of whom are 
Frisbee Club members.
The marathon will begin Friday, March 
13,at 4:00 and continue through Sunday at 
1:00. Steve Zemba, co-chairman of the 
project committee of Lambda Sigma, stated 
that the marathon will be held on the cut, 
weather permitting. In case of bad weather, 
Zemba is trying to reserve the gym for the 
weekend. Lambda Sigma has been 
responsible for the organization of the event, 
and the Frisbee Club is providing the 
throwers.
Zemba stated that the idea was 
spontaneous one and came about because 
"we (Lambda Sigma) needed a service 
project. Zemba did not know how much 
money the marathon is expected to make, 
but at the end of the marathon Muscular 
Dystrophy will be presented with a check.Karen Schultz goes up against a PSU player at the Mid-Atlantic Invitational Saturday.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28The TartanMarch 10, 1981
l op Jocks: Marathoner John Wessels
by Mark Knapp
When people at CMU think of long
distance running, almost everyone thinks of 
the amazing senior, Dario Donatelli, who 
has astounded crowds with his outstanding 
endurance over the past four years. But 
Dario specializes in the 5000 M(3.1 miles) 
and 10,000 M(6.2 miles), which are actually 
known in the running world as the middle 
distances. The true long distance run is the 
grueling marathon.
A rising star in the marathon distances 
here at CMU is John Wessels, an H&SS 
freshman. In the Nittany Valley Marathon, 
run at State College, John crossed the finish 
line first with an excellent time of 2:32:12. 
This gained him recognition as the best 
marathoner in the U.S. in 1980 in the 18 or 
younger age range. Who is this kid, though?
John is a local Pittsburgher who ran for 
Mt. Lebanon High School. At Mt. Lebo, 
John boasted such times as a 4:24 mile and a 
9:18 two mile. John remembers, In high 
school running was fun, but I had a coach,
Ron Schriner, who instilled in me the desire 
to achieve as much as my talents and abili
ties would allow me to. John feels that 
Coach Schriner is the one who made him 
the runner he is today.
John is shy speaking about his family. 
My family really supports me in my run
ning adventures as well as in anything else I 
choose to do. On one occasion his mother 
traveled to Houston, Texas, to see him run 
in a Junior Olympics championship. John 
feels his family has been a distinct advantage 
to his running career.
The different situation John found him
self in as a first semester freshman affected 
his view of athletics. John realized, I had a 
difficult time fitting running and school 
work together my first semester at CMU, but 
now I have learned to budget my time as to 
make sacrifices in both to achieve equally in 
both. John came to CMU because, I 
thought it provided the best combination of 
academics and athletics without having to 
travel out west. The upper western states, 
such as Oregon and Washington, areWRITERS NEEDED!
FOR SPRING SEASON SPORTS
ALL INTERESTED CALL
X4291
known for their excellent programs for 
runners.
Looking at his experience of running 
cross country at CMU, John has a positive 
attitude. Under Athletic Director James E. 
Banner,Cross Country Coach Gary Meckley 
runs the CMU program with much vigor 
and success. I see Coach Meckley as a good 
coach and I feel in the future he will become 
a coordinator of coaches with various 
coaches under him.
This past cross country season was 
CMUs best for Meckley. Wessels ran with 
teammate Dario Donatelli, backed by a 
mostly freshman team, to the National 
Championships. John respects Donatellis 
abilities as a runner and comments, I think 
that he (Dario) has created a good tradition 
for upcoming freshman to look up to as the 
star runner at CMU.
What is Johns secret of success? He attrib
utes it to the most important part of long 
distance runningdedication. Getting up 
in the morning during the week after not 
sleeping enough the night before and 
runningthats dedication! That includes 
Sunday mornings too.
While in season, John practices a rather 
peculiar training methodvegetarianism. 
Of all the CMU runners, John is the only 
vegetarian. John says, During the season I 
tend to overeat and drink, and hence, to 
keep down to a respectable racing weight, I 
cut out all meats of my diet. He can be seen 
in the cafeteria with soup, salad and milk at 
every meal. Maybe here is a secret for all 
runners who aspire to stardom, or at least 
better PR.
During the winter, in between the cross 
country and track seasons, John puts on his
photo by Robert Zusman
JOHN WESSELS
hat and scarf and set of very long skis to 
push his way through Schenley Park. 
John is among the many runners who has 
adopted cross country skiing as a refreshing 
alternative to the continual mileage needed 
to maintain fitness.
John claims cross country skiing is as 
good as, if not better for you, than running. 
Theres not as much pounding on the 
body, and it gives the same or better physical 
benefits. Whatever the benefits, its better 
than running through ice, slush and snow 
in the winter time.
Being a freshman, John has quite optim
istic hopes for the Tartan runners. With 
outstanding freshman runners Mike Short, 
Kevin Brewer and others, he hopes to bring 
a national championship to CMU soon. For 
this university, that feat would be the first in 
any sport. Maybe some day, if John keeps 
eating salads and Coach Meckley keeps up 
the great recruiting, CMU will become 
NCAA Division National champions.
In the
Northeast, 
National 
Politics is 
Theoretical.
The policies and people who shape them are right here in the nations capital. Local news is national news. And current affairs could include international decisions.You can be a part of it.The summer session at The American University offers the serious student an n
opportunity to study the political /flHrril process up close. Explore political r'science.government.business and government relations. communications, journalism and public relations while you further yourdegret.Plus hands-on internM '
ships in government, /AM f \ international relaf//JT f tions and the \ \\ humanities are
In
Washington;D.C. 
it is Actual.
Well help you put theory into practice.
Talk with your academic counselor and call or write now for information about the summer session in D.C.
om
? Please send course schedule
? Please send specific 
information about:
ADDRESS.
CASS05
O
ZIP
TheAmericanA N rni\ersity
Office of Summer Sessions 
The American University 
Washington, DC. 20016 
202-686-2697
Tlw American University is an equal 
opportunity/affirmative action 
uimerelty

---------------------------------------------------

50's BASH!
Friday, March 13 
COMMON GROUNDS 
(Morewood Gardens 
9:30-1:00
Fonzie and Annette Look-A-Like Contest 
Phone Booth Stuffing Contest 
Bubble Gum Blowing Contest 
Free prizes given to the first 100 people
Sponsored by AB, SDC, and Residence Life

---------------------------------------------------

Erente.
a.b.
March 13 
Friday Films
Lord of the Rings, (animated); Based on the nov
els: Fellowship of the Rings and The Two 
Towers by J.R.R. Tolkien. The film has the feel 
of Fantasia and the scope of Star Wars. Directed 
by Ralph Bakshi, whose current work American 
Pop has recendy opened in Pittsburgh. 6, 8:30 
and 11 in DH2210. $1 with CMU ID
March 15
Sunday Afternoon at the Movies 
Fmians Rainbow, directed by Francis Ford Cop
pola. Coppolas Finians Rainbow was also 
another first for him, the transfer erf an already 
famous stage musical to the screen many years 
after its original Broadway success, and it was 
risky. But it succeeded, primarily because it 
adhered closely to the original score. Also, it had 
the good fortune to boast the return to musicals 
3f Fred Astaire as the Irishman who steals a pot of 
gold from a leprechaun (Tommy Steele). Cop
pola decided to shoot most of it on location, 
which freed it of the artificial studio look of many 
musicals: and Petula Clark proved to be a delight 
is Astaires daughter. 2 p.m. in DH2210
film
SDC Film Series
March 14
Bedtime for Bonzo, starring the President of the 
United States, Ronald Reagan and Nancy, as his 
rhimpanzee friend. 6, 8, 10 and 12 in DH2210. 
$.75 with CMU ID.
Cierman Film Series
March 11
Dos Glas Wasser, (German with English subtiJes). Screen adaptation of Eugene Scribes 
oomedy Le Verre dEau, dealing with an 
ntrigue at the English court during the baroque 
jenod. Director Helmut Kautner. Starring Gus
tav Grungens and Hilde Krahl. 7 p.m. in Porter 
Hall 100.
Carnegie Institute Film Series
March 10
Directors Series: Joris Ivens 
The Drugstore, cited as the best documentary 
Ive ever seen by J. Hoberman of the Village 
Voice and The Football Incident, both filmed in 
the Peoples Republic of China. 8 p.m. in the 
Museum of Art Theatre. 52
March 15 
Comedy Series
Gentlemen Prefer Blondes starring Jane Russell 
and Marilyn Monroe in her first musical starring 
role. Monroe sings "Diamonds are a Girls Best 
Friend. 7:30 in the Leecture Hall. $2
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film Repertory
March 12
Sleeper, directed by Woody Allen. Starring 
Woody Allen and Diane Keaton. 7:30 and 9:30.
March 13
Wise Blood, based on a Flannery OConnor 
novel. Starring Brad Dourif, Ned Beatty and 
Harry Dean Stanton. 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30.
March 14
Romeo and Juliet, starring Olivia Hussey, Leo
nard Whiting and Michel York. 7:30, 9:50 and 
12:10
March 15
For Me and My Gal, directed by Busby Berkeley. 
Starring Judy Garland, Gene Kelly and George 
Murphy. 7:30 and 9:30.
March 16
The War at Home, a documentary about U.S. 
reaction to Vietnam War. 7:30 and 9:30.
March 17
The Private Life of Henery VW, starring Charles 
Laughton and Merle Oberon. 7:30 and 9:30.
March 18
Frankenstein starring Boris Karloff and Dracula, 
starring Bela Lugosi.
art
Forbes Street Gallery
Margaret Morrison Street and Forbes Avenue, 
Wednesday through Sunday, 12:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, 7 to 9 p.m.
March 10 through 15-Liz Boyle, Jim Kozlik and 
Mike Smithhamer
March 17 through 22-Amy Cook, Chris Mosseau 
and Mary Ann Sipple
Ellis Gallery
in the College of Fine Arts. Monday through 
Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Through March 13-Ted Giles 
March 16 through 20--Ann Sherrill
Hewlett Gallery
In the College of Fine Arts opposite the box 
office. Gallery hours are 10 AM to 4 PM, Monday 
through Saturday, and during Kresge Theatre 
performances.
March 2 through 21- Drama Department 
Senior Design Show
Through March 29-Charles M. Jackson. Paint
ings, Photographs and Sculpture. Jacksons 
major recent works include a series of realistic 
landscapes of the Pittsburgh area.
Carnegie Museum
Through March 15- 71st Annual Associated 
Artists of Pittsburgh. Galleries 12, A,B,C.
Through April 5- Diane Samuels, sculpture. 
Entrance Gallery.
theater
Velar Gallery
In the Graduate School of Industrial Administra
tion. The gallery is open daily from 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m.
Through March 13-Anthemion Creative Artists, 
a group of over 100 Pittsburgh artists. Three 
awards, selected by Herb Olds, noted artist, juror _ _ 
and professor of drawing at CMU will be presI II1 
ented. ______________________
February 26 through March 21 
Wings
Soho Repertory Theatre presents the 
Pittsburgh Premiere of Arthur Kopits play. 
The strange, terrifying, shattered world of a 
woman who has suffered a stroke. At Soho 
Theater, 3300 Fifth Avenue at Craft. 
Thursday through Sunday evenings. Student 
tickets are available. 682-0438 for tickets and 
information.
Through April 5 
Look Back in Anger
The Allegheny Reperetory Theatre will present 
the powerful post-war drama by John Osborne. 
At the Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre Center, 
420 North Craig St. For reservations and informa
tion, call 621-2876.
March 4 through April 12 
Tangles
The World Premiere of a new play by Robert 
Litz. A contemporary comedy about the 
romantic collisions of five friends. At the 
Pittsburgh Public Theatre on the North Side. 
For information, call 323-1900.
Pittsburgh Plan for Art
Gallery 407,407 South Craig St. Hours are Tues
day through Saturday 10 to 5 and Sunday, 1 to 5.
March 10
Camegie-Mellon Chamber Singers
In the Alumni Concert Hall at 8 p.m. Max Peter
son, Conductor.
DO IT THIS SUMMER!
Challenge yourself for six weeks
If you've never thought about Army ROTC and its benefits, consider trying our summer camp for 
college students. The camp provides military and leadership training to qualify, but not obligate you, to 
enroll in advanced officer training when you return to campus. When you graduate from school you'll 
have more than a degree. You will have earned an officer's commission in the Army and an opportunity 
to serve in either the regular or reserve forces. It is up to you. Regardless of your choice, you'll be armed 
with the extra credentials it takes to set you apart as a responsible achiever. That's the edge you need 
for success in any career, military or civilian. If you have at least two years left in school, send for our 
summer camp pamphlet.
For immediate answers to your questions 
Call Captain Heiser, (412) 578-2205
Cut out and forward through Campus Mail 
to B-7 Margaret Morrison Hall
Carnegie-Mellon University
Army Officer Commissioning Program 
Margaret Morrison Hall
BE ALL YOU CAN BE
Please send me more information on your summer camp program for college students.
Name_________________________________________________________________
Address (local)_________________________________________________________
Phone_________________________________________________________i_______
am a:____Freshman
____Sophomore
Credit hours to date.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classified
Want it done right? Typing, editing, profession
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi
cient, reasonable. IBM executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 p.m.
Typing: IBM Selectric Symbols: Pica, elite, work 
guaranteed. 734-1331.
Typing experienced, freelance secretary, will
type at home, resumes, thesis, correspondence, 
^tables, etc. own IBM Selectric II. 521-7888.
Italian, Spanish, German and English Tutoring
by degreed native teachers. For additional info 
call 661-1211.
Couples: Issues in Intimacy will be considered in 
a five week, personal development, growth group 
sponsored by the campus Counseling Center. 
Couples interested in meeting other couples, 
sharing opinions, attitudes and feelings on the 
I issues which challenge contemporary couples are 
I welcome. The group will be limited in numbers 
so for more information about scheduling please 
r'contact the Counseling Center, Baker Hall 135 or 
call X2922.
I am organizing a small group (3-7) to travel 
through Europe this summer by bicycle and 
train. The group arrangements will be loose to 
allow members to pursue their own interests. 
Please call Donna at X3716 during the day if you 
are interested-call soon, air fares are going up.
Counselors, over 19 who like to have fun and 
make fun at unique overnight boys summer 
camp in Penna. Able to instruct either one of the 
following: Watersafety, Waterskiing, Boating, 
Soccer, Basketball, Arts and Crafts, Rockclimbing, Riflery, Ham Radio, Rocketry, Science, 
Archery, Track, Tennis, Golf, Photography, Pioneenng, or General Atheltics. Write Camp Direc
tor, 138 Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, PA 
19444.
Apartments for rent Shadyside area. Furnished 
or unfurnished, laundry, parking, appliances. 
Efficiencies, one, two, and three bedrooms. 682-
7010.I \
. Guitar Amplifier For Sale. Gibson lab series, 
model L5, 100 Watts. Only two years old. Excel
lent condition. Including: two brand new' 12" lab 
series speakers, built in compressor, master 
volume, frequency and midrange controls, 
reverb, plus reverb footswitch. Call Alan after 
4:30 p.m. 683-8841.
Artists and photographers life study model
needed for North Hills Art Center Classes. For 
information call Bob Ruschak 462-3072 or the 
center 364-3622. -
Roommates wanted: house in Shadyside. 3 bed
rooms available. $120.00 single bedroom. $60.00
2 girls in one bedroom. 363-7571 March 1.
Help! Does anyone on this campus play wargames? call X4109 if so.
Bored Desk Assistant seeks female interested in 
theoretical physics call X3080 Tuesday after mid
night. Ask for Rob.
1981 Tax Guide for College Teachers is available 
in the Reference Department of Hunt Library. 
Interested faculty and staff can ask any Reference 
Department staff for assistance in locating this 
useful work.
Typingexperienced, freelance secretary, papers 
theses, statistics, etc. IBM executive Selectric II, 
521-7888
Moving and light haulingCampus based and 
reasonable. Evenings 687-3062.
We are looking for an experienced Dungeon Mas
ter. If you qualify please reply by mail to: 
Karellen, 2904 4th Ave., Beaver Falls, PA 15010.
official
Lost and Found for Beaux Arts is in security, 
Baker Hall.
The Treasurer of Student Senate has frozen the 
funds of the Thistle for not stating Funded by 
CMU activities Fee on an ad placed in the Feb
ruary 24 issue of The Tartan. Funds will be 
unfrozen when a letter of apology appears in The 
Tartan.
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences will have open office 
hours for students, Tuesdays from 1:30-3:30.
Student Senate has issued a written warning to 
the following orgaizations for not stating 
Funded by your CMU activities fee on ads 
placed in The Tartan and/or on posters placed 
about the campus: Computer Club, Forbes Street 
Gallery', Scotch n Soda.
The Thistle staff apologizes to the Student body 
for not stating Funded by your CMU activities 
Fee in the February 24 ad in the February' 24 ad 
in the Tartan. Sorry!!
The Student Senate meets in the Wherret Room 
at 6:30 p.m. every Tuesday night.
WHY SHOULD YOU SEETHE 
PITTSBURGH BALLET THEATRE 
THIS SPRING?
? the excellence
(one of the nations top companies)
? the choreography
? the music
? the drama
? the costumes
? the athletic rigor
? the beauty of Heinz Hall
? the student discount*X all of the above
for the first time ever. PBT will offer a 20% student discount for the 
newly added Sat. matinee performances.
ORDER NOW FOR:
GISELLE 
March 14, 2:30 p.m.
ROMEO & JULIET 
March 28, 
2:30 p.m.
TICKET PRICES:
Kegular 3>iz5.UU 1
Discounted S 12.00 S 9.60 $ 8.00 $7.20 $4.80 $2.40
r - ~ .....
Norrio
   --------
1 CitvZip
Phnppp|prtir
No. of TicketsPrice $ Total $-------------
club
The next Computer Club meeting will be held 
Tuesday, March 17 at 8:30 in SCH 7500. Anyone 
interested in joining or just observing is invited 
to attend. For more information call Drew Anderson(X5995) or Monica Gellio(X4451).
Scotch n Soda will accept proposals for next 
years productions at a meeting on March 17 at 7 
p.m. in Skibo 45. Script reviews will be held on 
April 20 at 7 p.m. in Skibo 45. Elections for 
Scotch n Sodas executive board are open to the 
campus; they will take place at the April Fools 
party, April 1 at 8 p.m. S n S is also holding a 
logo contest for the organization. Deadlines for 
submissions is April 10, 1981.
Anyone interested in working on AB Coffehouse 
Committee please call Jeanette at 621-2911 or 
leave a message at the Skibo Information Desk.
There will be tryouts for Varsity Gieerleading for
the 1981-82 season, March 11, 1981. For more 
information call Eleanor X4895 or Lynn X4738.
The CMU Explorer Clubs winter activities
include ski packing, winter camping, ice climb
ing, day trips and more. A brief meeting is held 
every Thursday at 6:30 in room 11, Skibo. People 
of all levels of experience are welcome. Funded 
bv Student Senate.
Golf Team meeting 4:30 p.m. Wed. March 11 in 
the small gym.
Camegie-Mellons Public Speaking Club will be 
meeting Mondays at 6 PM in room 12, Skibo. All 
interested students are urged to attend. For infor
mation, call x4410, eves; x3842, days.
general
The Colloquium Series of Department of Psy
chology presents Dr. Mark P. Zanna of the Uni
versity of Waterloo in Baker Hall 340A Friday, 
March 13 at 3 PM, The topic is Self-perception, 
Dissonance, and Ego-defensive style.
A History of Humanism continues. Tonight, 
some different streams of modem western 
thought. 7 p.m., Doherty Hall 2315 Inter-Varsity 
Christian Fellowship.
Economic Forcasting will be discussed by Mr. 
Joseph Lang of Pittsburgh National Bank on 
Wednesday, March 18 at 4:45 p.m. in Skibo 
Room 11. The event is sponsored by AIESEC
 CMU and everyone is welcome to attend both the 
weekly meeting at 4:30 and the talk at 4:45.
H&SS SAC Party: The Student Advisory Council 
is sponsoring a Refreshments and Cheese Party 
on Wednesday, March 18 from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 
p.m. on the Baker Hall rotunda. All H&SS stu
dents, faculty, and staff are welcome.
Send check to Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre, 244 Boulevard 
of the Allies, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222. Enclose selfaddressed stamped envelope. ________j
Computer Science 
and Electrical Engineering 
Majors
San Francisco Bay Area company developing state of 
the art computer software and hardware for integrated 
voice and data office communications systems seeks 
talented individuals interested in:
SOFTWARE
 Operating Systems
 Real Time Distributed Computing
 Data Communications
 Office Automation Applications
 Office of the Future Applications
 Diagnostics
 Software Tools
ROLM Corporation, founded in 1969 has grown 
50% -100% each year and currently has 
3700 employees. ROLMs Telecommunications 
Division is the leading independent supplier of 
computer controlled voice and data business 
communications systems.
Included in ROLMs outstanding benefits 
package is a three month paid sabbatical after six 
years (and every seven years thereafter), company 
paid tuition and time off for graduate study at 
Stanford University. Employees can take advan
tage of flexible working hours to use ROLMs 
million dollar recreational facility which includes 
tennis courts, racquetball courts, basketball, 
exercise room, volleyball, swimming pools, par 
course, sauna, steam room and jacuzzi.
On Campus Interviews
Wednesday 
March 11, 1981 
Meet with working software engineers from 
ROLM in the placement center. See our com
pany literature in the placement center.
If unable to attend anGibson Anderson 
Manager. Recruiting A Training interview, send resume to: rolm Corporation
4900 Old Ironsides Drive M/S 560 
Santa Clara, CA 95050

---------------------------------------------------

i$i Summer Session
Carnegie-Mellon University
during the summer, 1981, will hold two 
six-week sessions as follows: 
1 st SIX-WEEK SESSION 
May 19-June 26
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd SIX-WEEK SESSION 
June 29-August 7
Regular Undergraduate and Graduate 
Courses
UNDERGRADUATE TUITION: 
$44/unit**  All undergraduates 
GRADUATE TUITION: 
$87/unit** - CFA/CIT/MIS/AMS/H&SS 
$67/unit**  English and History 
M.A./D.A. candidates
**3 units = 1 credit 
This is a tentative list of courses to be 
offered. The actual list of courses including 
class schedules will be announced and pub
lished depending upon student response. 
Application materials and further information 
will be mailed upon receipt of your inquiry. 
Please give your tentative reply as soon as 
possible by completing the attached form 
and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studies
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Phone(412)578-2085
Carnegie-Mellon University
Carnegie-Mellon University
TENTATIVE UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE COURSES FOR SUMMER SESSIONS
(1) - First Session: May 19 - June 26; (2) - Second Session: June 29 - August 7
* - Graduate Course Number
Name _________
Mailing Address
Present School
am interested in the following course(s)
Course NumberTitleSession
Please return this form to:
Director, Summer Studies
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa 15213
Chemistry:09-105Dynamics A Equilibrium10 units(1)09-117Organic Chemistry 19 units(1)OS-218Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
Civil Engineering:12-207Statics9 units(1)12-208Dynamics9 units(1)
Computer Science:15-104Introduction to Computer A (FORTRAN)9 units12 wks.15-111Introduction to Computing B (non-FORTRAN)9 units12 wks.
Mathematics:21-112Calculus 1 (HASS)10 units(1)21-121Calculus 110 units(1)21-121Calculus 1 (self-paced)10 units(1A2)21-122Calculus II10 units(1A2)21-141Computation Linear Algebra9 units(1A2)21-259Methods of Applied Math 19 units(1A2)21-260Methods of Applied Math II9 units(1A2)21-265' Linear Programming (self-paced)4.5 units(1A2021-267 'Graph Theory (self-paced)4.5 units(1A2)
Mechanical Engineering:24-112Fluid Mechanics 19 units(1)24-121Thermodynamics 19 units(1)24-739Advanced Topics in Heat Transfer: Solar Energy9 units(1)
Metallurgy and27-322Process Metallurgy12 units(1A2)Materials Science:27-332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(1A2)27-350Industrial Projects Seminar9 units(1A2)27-390Industrial Internship Option0 units(1A2)27-755Metallurgical Problemsvar. units(1A2)27-756Masters Projectvar. units(1A2)27-775Thesisvar. units(1A2)39-227Analysis, Synthesis and Evaluation II9 units(1A2)
Physics:33-121Physics 1: Mechanics (self-paced)10 units(1A2)33-122Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics (self-paced)10 units(1A2)33-123Physics III: Electricity 6 Magnetism (self-paced)10 units(1A2)33-129Electronics 110 units(1)
Statistics:36-209Prob. in Applied Stat. for Management & Social Science 19 units(1A2)36-210Prob. 6 Applied Stat. for Management 6 Social Science II9 units(1A2)36-211Prob. 4 Applied Stat. for Physical Science A Engineering 19 units(1)36-212Prob. A Applied Stat. for Physical Science A Engineering II9 units(2)36-215Probability and Statistics 19 units(1)36-216Probability and Statistics II9 units(2)36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis 19 units(1)36-220Statistical Methods for Data Analysis II9 units(2)
Biomedical Engineering:42-500Physiology9 units(2)
Architecture:48-206Summer Architecture Studio Level IIvar. units(1)48-308Summer Architecture Studio Level IIIvar. units(1)48-408Summer Architecture Studio Level IVvar. units11)48-360Construction Drawings9 units(2)48-389Aesthetics9 units(2)48-520Pre-Masters Studio -' 9 units(2)
Design:51-102Introduction to Design18 units(2)51-116Calligraphy9 units(2)51-122Introduction to Photography9 units(1A2)
Music:67-182Solfege and Dictation 16 units(2)57-184Solfege and Dictation II6 units(2)67-000Applied Study in Voice, Piano A Organ6 units(2)57-276Piano Pedagogy6 units(2)57-867Administration and Supervision in Music Education6 units(2)57-873Principles of Music Education6 units(2)57-875Contemporary Problems in Music Education6 units(2)
Art:60-119,719*Drawing9 units(2)60-120,720*Design: Theory A Application9 units(2)60-226,726*Painting9 units(2)60-231,731*Screen Painting9 units(2)(2)60-233,733*Relief9 units
60-236,735*60-237,737*60-348,748*60-249,749*60-254,754*
LithographyIntaglioThe Art of GlassCeramicsMetalcrafts
9 units 9 units 9 units 9 units 9 units
(2) ' (2)(2)(2)(2)
60-380,780*Contemporary Art9 units(2)
Administration and70-101Elements of Industrial Administration9 units(1A2)
Management70-121Accounting 19 units(1A2)
Science:70-332Government and Business9 units(2)70-361Foundations of Law9 units(1)70-371Production 19 units(1A2)70-381Marketing 19 units(1)70-391Finance 19 units(2)70-422Cost Accounting9 units(1)70-451Electronic Data Processing9 units(1)
Economics:73-100Principles of Economics9 units(1) '73-250Intermediate Microeconomics9 units(1)73-300Intermediate Macroeconomics9 units(1)
English:76-100Strategies for Writing-9 units(1A2)76-101Fiction and Fact9 units(1 A 2)76-244Shakespeare9 units(2)76-270Professional Writing (Undergraduate A MA)9 units(2)76-320,720*Special Topics in English: Writing the Short Story9 unitsID76-441,841*Advanced Studies in British Literature: Thomas Hardy9 units(1A2)76-818Research Methods9 units(2)76-911Reading Rhetoric: Classical Heuristicsj 9 units(2)
History79-220Contemporary America9 units(1A2)79-308Recent American Foreign Policy9 units(1)79-310The American Presidency9 units(1)
Philosophy:80-1 50Aesthetics9 units(2)
Modern Languages:82-121Elementary German12 units(1)82-122Elementary German12 units(2)82-141Elementary Spanish12 units(1)
Psychology:85-101General Psychology9 units(1)
