SPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Gallery Crawl presents vibrant exhibits  B9
SCITECH
Researchers combat world hunger with engineering  A6Martin exceeds ?rst-year expectations  A9
thetartan.org
@thetartan
October 1, 2012
Volume 107, Issue 6
EMILY DOBLER
Editor-in-Chief
Advertised around campus as (Chi)politics, last 
Wednesdays town hall meeting set the tone for what 
Student Body President Will 
Weiner and Vice President 
Meela Dudley hope to accomplish while in of?ce.
Weiner, a senior economics and statistics and decision 
science double major, and 
Dudley, a senior creative writing and professional writing 
double major, emphasized 
throughout the meeting that 
transparency and a strong 
public presence on campus are 
integral to their roles.
Held in the Connan Room, 
the forum attracted about 
70 people, a number Weiner 
mentioned was signi?cantly 
higher than in the past. Weiner and Dudley built up hype by 
offering free Chipotle burritos 
to the ?rst 100 attendees, advertised in posters and on the 
student body president Facebook page.
Weiner and Dudley plan 
to theme each of their ensuing town halls. The Chipotle wasnt the cheapest thing 
ever, but Im happy because 
it made a big impact, Weiner 
said. Even a lot of people who 
couldnt make it still knew, 
and were excited and jazzed.... 
[Were] ?guring out ways that 
are still fun and gimmicky, but 
cost effective.
This particular town hall 
began with an overview of 
the functions of the branches 
of student government, from 
the executive committee to 
cabinet liaisons. This transitioned into Weiner and Dudleys projects for their time 
in of?ce. The pair discussed 
what theyve completed thus 
far, such as launching a social 
media platform, as well as 
their ongoing initiatives, such 
as improving communication 
between student groups.
One initiative, in particular, included the possibility 
of raising the student activity 
fee.
According to Weiner, there 
have been complaints in the 
past about student groups being underfunded. He said that 
student government had been 
compiling data on increasing 
the fee, and would host info 
sessions and more town halls 
speci?cally for this initiative.
Jon Mark, the student body 
vice president for ?nance and 
a senior lighting design major, 
echoed Weiners sentiments: 
Were going to be doing focus 
groups on this.
Once Weiner and Dudley 
moved through the projects 
they have already slated, they 
asked attendees for feedback 
on a series of preplanned 
questions.
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
Jack Dorsey, the co-founder of Twitter and Square, 
spoke to Carnegie Mellon students on Wednesday about entrepreneurship and his vision 
when founding Square.
Dorsey co-founded Square, 
a mobile payments company, 
in 2009 with artist James 
McKelvey. Square offers consumers free credit card readers that allow them to accept 
payments with their smart 
phones or tablets. Last year, 
the company was valued at 
more than $1 billion by venture capital ?rm Kleiner, Perkins, Cau?eld & Byers.
Dorseys visit to Carnegie 
Mellon is one of several trips 
he is making to colleges and 
universities this week in order to recruit new talent for 
Square, including visits to 
Princeton University and the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology. Square has also 
posted job openings on TartanTrak and sent recruiters to 
this years Technical Opportunities Conference.
Everyone is really clamoring for engineers, so the 
recruiting is getting more aggressive, said senior computer science major Amy Quispe, 
who was in the audience for 
Dorseys speech. I think that 
sending Jack was the right 
thing to do. His name is so 
strongly associated with the 
Square brand.
I never wanted to be an 
entrepreneur, Dorsey said. 
Instead, Dorsey said that he 
had ideas and a willingness 
to take risks to see his ideas 
through. He emphasized that 
though founding Square was 
one of those risks, you dont 
have to start a company to be 
an entrepreneur. You can have 
an entrepreneurial attitude.
I was thoroughly inspired 
by his view on this matter, because it comes to show that 
everyone has this potential, 
said sophomore computer 
science major Isaac Lim after 
the event. The only ones that 
work out in the end are by the 
people who have the determination and drive to see their 
ideas through.
Dorsey peppered his 
speech with inspirational 
quotes and imagery. Toward 
the end of his speech, he likened Square to the Golden 
Gate Bridge. Not only is it 
this beautiful end product, but 
the way it was built was also 
amazing.... Everyone who 
worked on this bridge is proud 
of it. Their children are proud 
of it and their grandchildren 
are proud it, Dorsey said. We 
also want to build a company 
that not only has a great end 
product, but that we are proud 
of the work that went into it.
He really had the reality 
distortion ?eld down. It was 
everything I was promised, 
Quispe said. His talk focused 
on selling us on the grand vision of Square, and that really 
put the audience in awe.
Having sold many students 
on his vision of entrepreneurship, Dorsey went on to explain how Square supports 
this vision. Founders can 
happen anywhere, and ideas 
that can change the course 
of a company can come from 
anywhere. This is basic principle that we use to run Square, 
Dorsey said. Weve built a 
foundation for our folks to 
move really fast on a very, very 
large canvas.
NOL UM
Junior Staffwriter
Tackling the highly controversial topic of liberal 
Zionism in terms of Palestinian justice, Max Blumenthal, Jewish-American 
journalist and bestselling author, presented his 
lecture to an audience of 
around 100 University of 
Pittsburgh students and faculty last Wednesday.
Blumenthals lecture 
focused on debunking several myths about liberal Zionism, a political trend in 
Israel that advocates for a 
two-state solution in order 
to support the Jewish state.
Blumenthal said that 
he wanted to challenge the 
myths of liberal Zionism because he believes that these 
misconceptions are responsible for worsening the 
current Israeli-Palestinian 
crisis. He centered the crux 
of his argument on his belief that a two-state solution 
will not bring about peace.
I think liberal Zionism 
has lost much of its political 
in?uence in Israel, but it remains very culturally in?uential and has an enormous 
currency in the United 
States among liberal Americans, especially American 
Jews, in perpetuating and 
preserving the fallacy that 
the two-state solution will 
deliver peace or a viable 
Palestinian state, he said.
Blumenthal addressed 
the perception that liberal 
Zionists are pro-peace. According to him, the liberal 
Zionist idea of peace differs 
from the Western liberal 
de?nition. [The liberal Zionist peace] is not de?ned 
by an opposition to war or 
militarism; its an embrace 
of militarism, he said.
Blumenthal also confronted the belief that liberal Zionists are politically 
liberal. This is the biggest 
deception: One of the key 
things about liberal Zionists and what distinguishes 
them from liberals in the 
United States is that unlike 
American liberals who believe in civil rights, [they] 
are committed to the engineering of an ethnic democratic majority, which puts 
them as the most rightwing ?gures we can think 
of in American society, he 
said.
According to Blumenthal, discrimination against 
Palestinians is evident today through Israeli attitude. 
Citing a personal experience, Blumenthal spoke of 
an incident during which 
he watched drunken Israeli 
youths stab a Palestinian, 
an issue that was left unacknowledged by of?cials.
Some students disagreed 
with Blumenthals take on 
the act. Eliana Weiner, a junior psychology and architecture double major said, 
You dont necessarily know 
what happened before and 
leading up to [those acts] 
and what they could be a result of. To take things out of 
context is really misleading 
and its an easy way to show 
a bias. There are a lot of 
misconceptions and falsehoods [from the Palestinian 
side] that try to be stated as 
truths.
(Chi)politics takes over Connan RoomLecture probesIsrael issue
See ISRAEL, A3
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
Student Body President Will Weiner addresses students at his and Student Body Vice President Meela Dudleys ?rst town hall of the year. At the town 
hall, Weiner and Dudley discussed their plans for the year and asked students for feedback. The ?rst 100 students were promised Chipotle, though 
only about 70 attended. More town halls are planned for the future.
See CHIPOTLE, A3
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
On Thursday, after 22 years 
of service, Rick McCullough 
left his position as Carnegie 
Mellons vice president of research to become Harvard 
Universitys vice provost of research, starting Oct. 15.
McCullough came to Carnegie Mellon in 1990 as an assistant professor of chemistry 
and quickly rose through the 
ranks. By 1998, he had become a full professor and the 
head of the chemistry department.
During my ?rst few years, 
I focused mostly on my research, so I got involved in the 
administration very early on 
in my career, McCullough re?ected, as he packed up his of?ce. I became professor and 
department head on the same 
day.
In 2002, McCullough was 
appointed dean of the Mellon 
College of Science.
As MCS Dean, Rick McCullough greatly expanded 
the research portfolio of the 
College and its funding from 
alumni, foundations, and 
state and federal agencies, 
current MCS Dean Fred Gilman said in an email. I have 
bene?tted greatly by getting 
his advice when dif?cult problems arose, something that I 
hope I will still be able to seek 
in the future.
After he became vice president of research in 2007, McCullough became a champion 
of entrepreneurship and commercialization of technology 
 pioneering the Greenlighting Startups initiative to encourage start-up companies 
that use university-developed 
technology.
[Rick] led CMUs efforts in 
many technology commercialization activities  meaning 
when students or faculty try 
to start up a company, University Provost Mark Kamlet 
said. [As a result] we have 
the most start-up companies 
per research dollar spent.
McCullough was also the 
founder of several start-up 
companies of his own over the 
course of his tenure at Carnegie Mellon. 
One of McCulloughs companies, Plextronics, has been 
remarkably successful and, in 
2008, was named one of the 
regions 100 fastest-growing 
companies. 
In some sense, Im an expert at starting companies, 
McCullough said. I can easily 
teach those skills ... and I have 
been a mentor to a number of 
our small companies and faculty.
He had a special ability to 
take research to the next level 
and make it commercially viable, Gilman said in an email.
However, McCullough is 
ready to move on. It was a 
very dif?cult decision for me. 
I love Carnegie Mellon. Ive 
been here for 22 years, and my 
heart is in work, McCullough 
said. But once I went there 
and saw that I would be a part 
of building the new Allston innovation campus at Harvard 
... to have all the interdisciplinary research centers reporting to me was a very large 
opportunity for me.
It was an awfully appealing offer, Kamlet said. The 
kind of things Harvard wanted him to do were right up his 
alley, and it was really good 
opportunity for him, sadly for 
us.
Start-up supporter leaves CMU for Harvard
Twitter co-founder preaches entrepreneurship
Sanjana Baldwa/Junior Photographer
Carnegie Mellon Vice President of Research Rick McCullough has left to 
become the vice provost of research at Harvard University.

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  October 1, 2012
Lynn Johnson
Monday at noon 
Singleton Room,  
Roberts Hall
Pittsburgh photographer 
Lynn Johnson will receive 
the College of Engineering 
Shutterbug Award for Excellence in Photojournalism 
and Multimedia. Over her 
35-year career, Johnson has 
photographed people and 
places across the world. She 
has captured everything from 
African women fetching water to the struggle to preserve 
endangered languages.
Last years Shutterbug 
Award winner, Tony Tye, will 
introduce the award.
Ray Gindroz
Monday at 6 p.m. 
Carnegie Museum of Art
Architect and designer 
Ray Gindroz will deliver the 
David Lewis Lecture on Urban 
Design as part of the School 
of Architectures Fall 2012 
Lecture Series. Gindroz is the 
co-founder of Urban Design 
Associates. He has authored 
or co-authored several books 
on design, including The Urban Design Handbook, The Architectural Pattern Book, and 
The Place of Dwelling. He has 
also taught urban design at 
Yale University.
David M. Blei
Friday at 2:30 p.m. 
Doherty Hall 2315
David M. Blei, a computer 
science professor at Princeton University, will deliver 
a lecture titled Probabilistic 
Topic Models of Text and Users. Blei will discuss how to 
summarize and predict documents and how topic models 
can be used to analyze large 
collections of documents for 
latent themes. He will describe how topic models can 
be used to improve user experiences.
Blei received his Ph.D. 
from the University of California, Berkley, and was a 
postdoctoral fellow at Carnegie Mellon. His research focuses on probabilistic topic 
models, Bayesian nonparametric methods, and approximate posterior inference.
General Stanley 
McChrystal
Friday at 1 p.m. 
McConomy Auditorium, 
University Center
General Stanley McChrystal will discuss Americas 
current security challenges, 
including the proliferation 
of non-state actors, the advancement of information 
technology, and the advent 
of instantaneous communication. 
McChrystal served as 
commander of U.S. forces in 
Afghanistan from 200910. 
He resigned after the publication of an article in Rolling 
Stone in which he criticized 
the Obama administration.
This lecture is sponsored 
by the Center for International Relations and Politics and 
supported by the Humanities 
Scholars Program, the of?ce 
of the vice provost for education, the School of Computer 
Science, and the department 
of modern languages.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari?cations 
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
Metin Sitti, mechanical engineering professor 
and head of Carnegie Mellons Nanorobotics Lab, was 
recently awarded a total of 
$787,000 over three years as 
part of a research grant from 
the National Institutes of 
Health. 
Carnegie Mellon also provided a matching grant for 
his research.
In a university press release, Sitti described his research as developing miniature robot pills that will help 
doctors diagnose and treat 
disease and be able to respond quickly to a variety of 
changing environments.
He continued, This technology will be designed to 
help physicians better track 
disease and make remedies 
more accessible and affordable for a variety of maladies. 
Sitti plans to design new 
robotic, pill-sized soft capsules that may be controlled 
remotely to perform important diagnostic functions 
within the gastrointestinal 
tract.
Robots that can readily 
adapt to new situations are 
critical for helping support 
activities that consumers 
do daily, said Vijayakumar 
Bhagavatula, interim dean 
for the College of Engineering, in the press release.
Sitti also won the 2011 Nanoengineering Award from 
the International Society for 
Optics and Photonics for his 
research on devices that can 
manipulate objects on a molecular level. 
Our work will ultimately 
translate into more successful surgeries and better and 
faster diagnoses and recovery 
for patients, Sitti said in the 
press release.
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Carnegie Mellons Cognitive Neuroscience Lab is participating in the Autism Brain 
Imaging Data Exchange 
(ABIDE) program, which facilitates the release of over 
1,100 autism and control 
datasets from a group of 16 
international research labs. 
ABIDE is a collaboration of 
the International Neuroimaging Data-Sharing Initiative, 
the Child Mind Institute, the 
Child Study Center at New 
York University, and the Kennedy Krieger Institute.
The shared datasets include samples from 539 individuals with autism between 
the ages of seven and 64, and 
573 matched controls from 
individuals between the ages 
of six and 56. 
Marlene Behrmann, professor of psychology and 
director of the Cognitive 
Neuroscience Lab, said in a 
university press release, This 
is a phenomenal collaboration that will allow researchers unprecedented access to 
a massive dataset, collected 
under careful conditions 
from a very large sample of 
individuals with autism, all 
of whom have been carefully 
characterized in term of their 
behavioral pro?le. We can 
now get a sense of the heterogeneity of the disorder and, 
for the ?rst time, can begin 
to discern major trends in the 
group as a whole.
Adriana Di Martino, cofounder of ABIDE and professor of child and adolescent 
psychiatry at the Child Study 
Center, said in the press release, This collaboration ?lls 
an unmet need among the 
autism research community. 
By providing access to an unprecedented large-scale dataset, ABIDE has the potential 
to move autism research forward and thus advance our 
understanding of a complex 
disorder.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
Lab shares data to advance global autism research
FEATURE PHOTO
Campus lines up for free ?u vaccines
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
75 / 63
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
69 / 54
THURSDAY
High / Low
71 / 56
FRIDAY
High / Low
67 / 49
SATURDAY
High / Low
65 / 46
Trespass
Sept. 21, 2012
University Police responded to the steps in front of the 
Fifth Avenue side of the Software Engineering Institute 
(SEI) building, in regards to 
a male protester standing on 
the steps. The Carnegie Mellon nonaf?liate was identi?ed as a habitual trespasser 
near the SEI property. Of?cers 
asked the man to leave. He 
complied without incident.
Theft
Sept. 22, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to the Purnell 
Center to take a theft report. 
The reporting person stated 
that her laptop computer and 
camera were taken out of her 
of?ce in the Purnell Center. 
She left her of?ce unattended 
and unlocked from 9 a.m. to 4 
p.m. This investigation is ongoing.
Theft
Sept. 23, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to Purnell Center 
to take a theft report. The victim stated that their iPad and 
laptop were removed from 
their backpack while it was 
left unattended in an unsecured room on the ?rst ?oor, 
from 12:15 p.m. to 12:55 p.m. 
This investigation is ongoing.
Theft in Progress
Sept. 24, 2012
University Police responded to Entropy+ for a possible 
theft in progress. Of?cers 
were able to detain the suspect, a female Carnegie Mellon student; however, she 
was not found with any stolen 
items on her person. The female admitted to thefts in the 
past, but denied any thefts on 
this date. She was advised of 
the severity of her previous 
actions and was released from 
the scene.
Theft
Sept. 26, 2012
University Police took a report from a Carnegie Mellon 
student who reported that he 
attended a meeting in an of?ce in the University Center 
on Monday evening. He left 
his notebook in the of?ce with 
$100 in cash inside. He returned to the meeting room at 
1 p.m. on Tuesday and located 
the notebook, but the $100 
had been stolen. This case is 
under investigation.
Suspicious Person 
Sept. 27, 2012
University Police of?cers 
were summoned to Posner 
Hall on reports by several 
people of an unknown male 
spraying people with a substance believed to be hand 
sanitizer in the elevator. The 
male was located by Tepper administrative staff, and 
when questioned about his 
activities, he claimed to be a 
psychology major working on 
a study. 
The male could not identify his sponsor, and he was 
escorted from the building. 
University Police attempted 
to locate the male to identify 
him, with negative results.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
History professor Wendy Goldman waits outside of the Dowd Room, where Health Services ran a ?u vaccine clinic on Tuesday. Goldman had been 
waiting for 40 minutes, and faced a longer wait after the clinic ran out of forms and had to make more copies.
Statistically Speaking
The Emmys, the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences annual awards for the best television programs 
broadcast in America, were held last week. In celebration of the winners, losers, fashion, and surprises, here 
are the numbers behind the red carpet:
6
13.2 million
0
The number of Emmys won by Mad Men this year, in stark contrast 
to previous seasons.
94
The temperature on the red carpet in 
Los Angeles, Calif.
Compiled by 
BRENT HEARD
Sources: www.latimes.com and 
www.washingtonpost.com
Source: www.weather.com
The number of Emmys awarded to Homeland, one of this years 
most decorated programs.
The number of Americans who tuned in to watch 
the awards show.
Robotics researcher given grant to make robot pills

---------------------------------------------------

October 1, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
CARMEN KHOO
Junior Staffwriter
Students from several local universities congregated 
in Wiegand Gymnasium on 
Saturday afternoon to participate in Carnegie Mellons 
Program for Deliberative 
Democracys (PDD) campus 
conversation, titled Climate 
Change and the Campus.
Carnegie Mellon philosophy professor and PDD Director Robert Cavalier opened 
the event with enthusiasm.
There is a general consensus in the scienti?c community that climate change is an 
issue that is occurring at the 
present moment, and a subject that can be approached 
rigorously, which made it a 
topic considered as good practice for deliberative democracy among students, he said. 
This stands in contrast with 
a typical town hall meeting, 
which is neither interactive 
nor deliberative. It provides 
students with the opportunity 
to be actively involved in the 
discussion and to become informed about the topic while 
participating in a structured 
conversation.
The opinions of such informed individuals, he said, 
are valuable to policymakers 
trying to make relevant and 
constructive changes.
Deliberative democracy 
through campus conversation  de?ned by the PDDs 
website as the nations ?rst 
systematic use of deliberative 
polling techniques at the college and university level  
enables students to formulate 
opinions after they are more 
educated about a particular 
subject.
Another thing that made 
this campus conversation 
unique, Cavalier said, is that 
Climate Change and the 
Campus was a collaborative, 
city-wide event that included 
10 schools in the city of Pittsburgh. Cavalier said that such 
round-table conferences are 
able to offer students insight 
from those who are of different disciplines and thus spur 
them to be more engaged in 
doing their part for the environment.
Students were randomly 
assigned to tables with moderators to keep the ball rolling as they discussed climate 
change. Many of the participants claimed to know very 
little about climate change, 
and attended because it was 
required for a class.
However, for some, such 
as ?rst-year computer science 
major Steven Ong, global 
warming has always been a 
subject of interest. 
I would like to hear what 
others have to say and get a 
?rm ground on whether climate change is a problem, 
and how we as students can 
tackle it, he said.
While participants did not 
consider themselves wellversed with climate change, 
the round-table deliberations 
showed that many are concerned about global warming 
and its toll on the environment. 
Junior global studies major Christian Manoli, who remarked on the importance of 
reducing energy usage, said, 
We have really smart people 
 like geniuses  on this 
campus. Im sure they could 
invent something.
The second half of the 
event welcomed a panel comprised of Brinda Thomas, who 
works with the Center for 
Climate and Energy Decision 
Making at Carnegie Mellon; 
Lisa Coeffe, a Pittsburgh City 
Forester; Stan Kabala, associate director for the Center for 
Environmental Research and 
Education at Duquesne University; Erika Ninos, environmental program coordinator 
for the Steinbrenner Institute 
for Environmental Education 
and Research at Carnegie 
Mellon; and Debra Killmeyer, 
the program director of Renewable Energy Initiatives.
These panel members 
were more educators than debaters; their primary job was 
to answer students questions.
Students were curious 
about the initiatives the Pittsburgh community is taking to 
combat global warming, and 
the steps that they could take 
to do so. They wanted to know 
what a green career is, and 
how to advocate a green 
economy. Coming from different backgrounds, the panelists provided a broad range 
of perspectives on the issues.
Kabala said, You got to remember that not all the fossils 
are in the fuel, illustrating 
that everyone has a part to 
play in the matter of climate 
change.
Arguing that Israels current ideologies are fundamentally apartheid, Blumenthal 
proposed that the ideal solution for the Israeli-Palestinian 
con?ict would be a compromise allowing Israeli Jews to 
stay within their communities, while simultaneously 
devoting increasing energy 
toward reconciliation.
Reconciliation means 
that settler colonialist leaders 
need to admit what they have 
done, and concede power, he 
said. Blumenthal believes we 
should prepare the groundwork for a single state instead 
of prolonging what he sees 
as the slow process of ethnic 
cleansing.
If you look at polls of Israeli attitude, Israeli youth 
are increasingly racist and 
eliminationist toward Arabs 
and other non-Jews, and its 
a re?ection of an indoctrination process that begins at [a 
young] age, Blumenthal said.
Weiner said, In Israel, its 
a very different culture than 
in America in terms of Israeli 
defense force. Its something 
teenagers go into at the age of 
18, and its just a part of their 
culture, and its not to be violent but rather to protect their 
people. There are some cultural normalities about Israel 
that can be muddled when 
taken out of context.
Arguing for a movement 
toward a narrative of equal 
rights, Blumenthal said that 
making the idea of apartheid 
mainstream in Israel will 
bring to light the struggle of 
the Palestinians.
Its a one-state reality, 
Blumenthal said. The question is whether it will be a 
single apartheid state or some 
version of a single state like 
a confederation with equal 
rights for everyone.
Blumenthal was brought 
to Pitts campus by an organization called Pitt Students for 
Justice in Palestine (SJP).
Ryan Branagan, the president of SJP, said that Blumenthals talk offered a unique 
perspective that opponents of 
SJP could relate to, because 
it was given in a personable 
manner.
Branagan said that a previous incident had an indirect 
in?uence on SJPs decision 
to bring Blumenthal to campus. Last year, controversy 
arose surrounding a local 
high school student, Jesse Lieber?eld, who won Carnegie 
Mellons Martin Luther King 
Jr. Day essay contest with his 
anti-Israel essay. I think that 
the young teenager who wrote 
the essay should be lauded 
and not criticized like he was. 
[The growth] of this new 
group of Jewish-Americans 
that are ready to break the silence and move forward  its 
a great solidarity movement, 
Branagan said.
Some Pitt students who 
identi?ed themselves as proIsrael declined to comment 
on Blumenthals lecture. Students who were torn on the 
issue attended the lecture as 
a means of lending insight to 
shape their views.
Tian Qiu, a senior microbiology major at Pitt, said, The 
power balance is in Israels favor, so they have more responsibility to be the ?rst people 
to act toward a solution. Palestinians dont have any real 
power, which is why they are 
acting out violently. Its like a 
toddler trying to rail against 
their parents.
Danielle Schlesinger, sophomore biology and biomedical 
engineering major, believes 
that Blumenthal disregarded 
the other side of the IsraeliPalestinian con?ict, where 
Israelis often become victims 
of suicide bombings and terrorist attacks from Arabs. Im 
not saying that there shouldnt 
be any ?ghting between them, 
but you need to look at both 
sides of the issue, she said.
Mahmoud Yacoub, a junior 
philosophy major at Pitt and 
vice president of SJP, said, I 
hope that people will think 
about what [Blumenthal] 
said, and then go out and ?nd 
this information themselves 
so they can get a little more informed on the issue and help 
the cause in that way.
ISRAEL, from A1
The questions primarily 
addressed which campus services students felt were dif?cult to communicate with; 
what the ideal community 
event would be; what issues 
could be brought to the Pittsburgh Student Government 
Council (PSGC), a larger citywide coalition of students; 
and how campus could be improved.
Student suggestions included stream-lining the 
reimbursement process for 
student activities, expanding off-campus eateries that 
accept DineX, and hosting a 
campus-wide trick-or-treating 
event during Halloween.
I thought that there were 
a lot of great comments that 
were made and that Will and 
Meela were really receptive to 
everything, Lindsay MacGillivray, a junior biopsychology 
major, said of the discussion 
session. They got a good 
dialogue going, as opposed to 
just pointing out ideas.
Discussion then moved 
into a free-form format, and 
focused on the bigger picture of what students wanted 
from their student body president and vice president. The 
things we have to do are not 
particularly well de?ned, 
Weiner said.
At this point in the meeting, many suggestions from 
the audience were not necessarily within either Weiner 
or Dudleys capacity as president and vice president. One 
student asked if there was any 
way they could have a break 
during 90-minute classes, 
while another asked if Health 
Services could suck less.
At one point, an audience 
member even joked if Weiner 
and Dudley could control 
Pittsburghs chaotic weather 
patterns.
Despite the few hiccups in 
serious dialogue, Weiner and 
Dudley were happy with how 
the town hall turned out.
I was really pleased with 
the amount of questions, 
Dudley said. And speci?-
cally, I feel like this is setting 
the trend for the kind of feedback we want to receive for 
the rest of the year. Personally, weve made a really big 
push for having of?ce hours, 
Board of Directors meetings, 
[executive committee] meetings, and things of this nature 
 town halls  on a more 
regular basis.
Weiner, mirroring Dudleys thoughts, said, People 
seemed engaged about what 
were doing. So Im excited 
about the fact that this was 
a pilot to make sure that we 
can keep doing these and I 
think, even without these 
incentives, we can still get ... 
enough people, especially if 
its issue-based.
CHIPOTLE, from A1
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Junior Staffwriter
Former Pennsylvanian Republican Governor Tom Ridge 
spoke in Carnegie Mellons 
Kresge Theatre on Thursday 
about the issues in this years 
presidential campaign. According to the events program, the lecture was meant 
to survey the political landscape and explore the primary issues of this campaign season and of Americas future.
Associate professor in social and decision sciences 
Kiron Skinner is the head of 
the Center for International 
Relations and Politics, which 
hosted the event. Skinner 
said that the Centers scope 
is not limited to international 
issues, and includes domestic ones as well. Some of 
our speakers, like Governor 
Ridge, have held signi?cant 
positions on the domestic 
side, as governor, as congressman, but also ones that have 
more international implications, like his time at Homeland Security, she said.
The program for Ridges 
lecture gave a summary of his 
long career in U.S. government. After graduating from 
Harvard University in 1967, 
Ridge was drafted into the 
army as an infantry staff sergeant in Vietnam while earning a degree at Penn State 
Universitys Dickinson School 
of Law.
Ridges political career began in the House of Representatives, where he served six 
terms. Next, Ridge was governor of Pennsylvania for two 
terms and later, following the 
events of 9/11, became the 
?rst Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. 
Currently, Ridge is CEO of 
Ridge Global, a security and 
risk management ?rm based 
in Washington, D.C.
Ridge divided his talk 
into four main parts, dedicated to what he called the 
four different areas where I 
do believe, regardless of the 
outcome of the election, the 
president has to make signi?-
cant changes. Ridge focused 
on global engagement  speci?cally addressing military 
strength, diplomacy, and foreign aid  the budget de?cit, 
energy policy, and immigration policy.
Regarding a strong military, Ridge said that it is an 
absolute imperative that we 
maintain one. Along with 
the need for a military leadership, Ridge emphasized the 
need for a generous foreign 
aid policy. I would rather see 
preemptive aid than preemptive military. 
Ridges lecture also addressed some of the countrys 
most pressing issues at the 
moment, such as the national debt. We have got to get 
more serious about the de?-
cit, folks, Ridge said. Included in Ridges proposed plan 
were cuts to government welfare programs like Medicare, 
as well as an insistence on a 
return to manufacturing and 
making things as an attempt 
to reinvest in America.
Energy policy reform, too, 
was an important point of 
contention for Ridge; he speci?cally addressed the U.S.s 
over-reliance on fossil fuels.
 We need presidential 
leadership on energy policy 
... the world has to wean itself off this addiction [to fossil fuels]  there are multiple 
sources of fuel out there, 
Ridge said.
 While Ridge acknowledged the U.S.s natural 
wealth of coal-based resources, he sees a more sustainable 
future in newer types of energy, such as nuclear power.
Another issue on which 
Ridge gave an opinion was 
the U.S.s immigration policy. 
Talking not only about immigration from the southern 
border, Ridge had a globallyoriented view: We need an 
immigration policy that recognizes the diversity of the 
world.
The speech ended with a 
reference to what Ridge calls 
the American brand, and 
the global reputation of the 
U.S. If America is a product, 
our values, I think, are our 
brand.
In a Q & A session after 
the speech, Ridge opened 
the ?oor to students and 
faculty members. The questions asked addressed a 
broad range of contemporary 
sources of political contention, including terrorism, immigration policy, and the U.S. 
diplomatic stance regarding 
Israel.
Ridge was very willing to 
engage his audience, and said 
while taking refreshments after the talk, I appreciate the 
audiences who are willing 
to listen, hopefully learn, to 
be provocative in a very respectful question and answer 
session. So for me, its not 
so much what I get a chance 
to say, for me its even more 
fun to get a chance to interact 
based on what Ive said.
Jenna Asperslag, a ?rstyear international relations 
and politics major who attended the speech, embraced 
the opportunity to hear a 
fresh opinion on American 
politics. It was ... interesting to hear his perspective on 
what the politicians need to 
focus on, she said.
Ridge is familiar with 
Carnegie Mellon and the city 
of Pittsburgh: He is a native 
of the city, and his daughter, 
Lesley Ridge, is an alumnus of 
the university. 
Ridge said after the talk, 
Interaction with college students has been, generally, 
part of both my public and 
professional life that I have 
enjoyed the most ... I thought 
it was a really good session.
Ridges plan to brand U.S.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Former Pennsylvania Governor Tom Ridge relates his experiences on the ground in Vietnam to the current 
intricacies of foreign policy and global engagement.
Anti-Zionist speaker divides opinionSBP and SBVP 
debut town halls
City-wide climate discussion
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Students from 10 local colleges and universities gathered at Saturdays Climate Change and the Campus 
event, presented by the Program for Deliberative Democracy. Attendees discussed climate change in small, 
moderated groups before directing questions to a panel of experts.
Courtesy of RTAmerica on YouTube
Jewish journalist Max Blumenthal spoke at the University of Pittsburgh 
Wednesday night about the Israeli-Palestinian con?ict. Blumenthal was 
brought there by the Pitt Students for Justice in Palestine.

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  October 1, 2012
STEVEN WANG
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon welcomed one of Time magazines 100 Most In?uential 
People and Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor, Andrew Lo, for a series of 
talks on his adaptive markets 
hypothesis as well as on ways 
to tackle problems with ?nancial engineering.
Lo, who currently serves 
as director of the Laboratory 
for Financial Engineering at 
MIT, gave two open lectures 
last week, and appeared as a 
guest speaker in the Introduction to Game Theory course 
for the Quantitative Social 
Science program.
Lo is known for his multidisciplinary approach to economics. He calls upon ?elds 
of psychology, neuroscience, 
and evolutionary biology to 
better understand and explain the ways markets and 
people interact. 
Before undertaking a career in teaching, Lo worked 
at a consulting ?rm where he 
noticed that ?nancial strategies, while based on current 
economic wisdom, often gave 
less-than-expected results.
I was frustrated that some 
of the economics and behavioral papers I read did not 
match with what I was seeing 
in practice, Lo said. Thats 
when I really began thinking 
about exploring economics 
from different angles.
This eventually led him to 
his adaptive market hypothesis, a potential paradigmchanging explanation on how 
markets work. In his talks, 
Lo explained how the participants in a market  the 
investors, ?rms, and market 
makers  can be categorized 
as species that evolve and 
adapt to their economic environments, which results in 
the adaptation of the entire 
market.
According to Lo, a highly 
competitive market will adapt 
into a market that is ef?cient. 
His study of adaptive markets 
made him a sought-after adviser after the 2008 ?nancial 
crisis.
With such polarized political parties, it will be dif?cult 
to get out of the ?nancial crisis, Lo said. However, I see 
hope in that there is a certain 
number of extremely dedicated and hard-working people 
working on the problem.
While the U.S.s economic 
woes may need to be ?xed in 
Congress, Lo said that ?nding a cure for cancer can be 
reached through strategic 
funding from the private sector. In one of his talks, titled 
How Financial Engineering 
Can Cure Cancer, Lo said 
that even though funding research into cancer treatments 
can be an extremely risky 
investment, the potential rewards are just as huge.
But due to the high risk 
and yet-to-be-seen reward, 
funding for cancer research 
has declined signi?cantly. 
Lo explained, however, that 
these risks can be minimized 
by creating a $30 billion fund, 
comprised of money from 
private ?rms, investors, and 
American citizens. Instead of 
investing in just one cancer 
treatment method, they could 
invest in a large quantity of 
different treatments.
Lo said the success of just 
one or two of these methods 
would be more than enough 
to cover the costs of the failures. Citing recent medical 
breakthroughs, Lo said, The 
technology and methods of 
?ghting cancer are improving 
at a rapid rate ... now would 
be an optimal time to invest in 
cancer research.
Los description of how 
cancer and other large-scale 
problems can be tackled with 
?nancial engineering excited 
many in the audience. Its 
a very ingenious idea, said 
Sojin Kim, a ?rst-year economics major. Its pretty cool 
how the risk is hedged. I never 
thought of doing it that way 
before.
Those in the Game Theory 
class were equally receptive 
to Los ideas. He explained 
complex theories in a very 
understandable way.... I came 
away with a better idea of 
how people make economic 
decisions, said Tennley Noble, a ?rst-year decision science major.
MIT economist visits CMU
Courtesy of David Shankbone on Wikimedia Commons
Economist Andrew Lo visited Carnegie Mellon last week.

---------------------------------------------------

October 1, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
JENNIFER GOLDA
Junior Staffwriter
Since the year 2000, 85 
graduate students from American universities have been 
invited to join the prestigious 
Siebel Scholars community, 
which represents the years 
best in the ?elds of business, 
bioengineering, and computer 
science. The last U.S. News 
and World Report rankings 
put Carnegie Mellons School 
of Computer Science at No. 7 
nationally and No. 9 globally 
for computer science.
Given that, it may come as 
little surprise that ?ve Carnegie Mellon computer science 
graduate students are this 
years newly named Siebel 
Scholars: Ruta Desai, Sanjiban Choudhury, Martina 
Rau, Min Kyung Lee, and Zeyu 
Zheng. They will each receive 
a $35,000 scholarship to go toward their ?nal year of study. 
However, this award does not 
stop at the check. At an annual 
conference, Siebel Scholars 
meet with leaders from their 
?elds, discuss major issues, 
and give their input for the 
Siebel Foundations research.
The bene?ts of becoming 
a Siebel Scholar are more than 
?nancial: They become part 
of a worldwide community 
of scholars, engaged in initiatives of societal importance, 
under the direction of Tom 
Siebel, Randy Bryant, dean 
of the School of Computer Science, explained.
I really want to know what 
impact I can create as a Siebel 
Scholar and that I really dont 
know yet, said Desai, a masters student in robotics whose 
research focuses on legged robots. We are going to a conference, and there I can learn 
what exactly I will be able to 
do when I meet other amazing people with whom I can 
collaborate. Desai described 
how grateful she was to her 
advisers for their support after 
she came to the U.S. to study. 
With this award, she is excited 
for the opportunity to give 
back to them.
Choudhury is a graduate 
student researching engineering problems in autonomous 
helicopters.
For me at least, it would be 
just to have a wider perspective of things, Choudhury explained as his goal as a scholar. 
Its to be responsible, because 
we are at a stage where its 
not enough to think about our 
own ?elds but to really apply 
and expand your thinking into 
all issues.
Being recognized as someone whos good in research 
motivates me to do more good 
research and to ful?ll that expectation, said Rau, a Ph.D. 
student in human-computer 
interaction whose research 
focuses on intelligent tutoring 
systems.
Not only is being a scholar 
a chance to improve the world;  
as Rau suggested, it is also a 
chance to improve oneself.
Lee, another Ph.D. student 
in human-computer interaction, whose research works 
to optimize human-robot interactions, agreed. She said 
she ?nds inspiration looking 
at the other recipients. She recalled how she looked at other 
scholars online pro?les, and 
realized that they apply their 
research toward making products that help people.
This is something that I 
want to try to do, Lee said.
Zheng, a graduate student 
in the Language Technologies Institute researching social domain adaptation, also 
expressed gratitude for being 
named a scholar. I think that 
I just feel very honored to get 
this, Zheng said. Its very in?uential and you have many 
opportunities here. I think its 
just a wonderful experience.
Every year, the School 
of Computer Science gets to 
select ?ve graduate students 
to become Siebel Scholars. 
Given that we have over 600 
students in our M.S. and Ph.D. 
programs, its highly competitive, Bryant said. We 
are pleased that our students 
are able to participate in this 
program.
Computer science students named prestigious Siebel Scholars
Kelsey Scott/Junior Photographer
Zeyu Zheng (left), Sanjiban Choudhury (middle), and Min Kyung Lee (right) are among ?ve computer science students to be named Siebel Scholars.
Study shows bias persists for women in science
A new study by Yale University researchers revealed 
that science professors prefer male applicants to their 
female counterparts. The 
study gave biology, chemistry, and physics professors at 
six major research universities one of two rsums and 
asked them to rate the applicants competence on a scale 
of 17.
The two rsums were 
identical, except one had 
the applicant named John 
and the other Jennifer. 
John had an average score 
of 4, while Jennifer only registered a 3.3. The bias was 
equally prevalent across all 
scienti?c disciplines, and 
among both male and female 
professors.
Source: The New York Times
Scientists ?nd area  in brain used for gluttony
Scientists from The University of Michigan may have 
found a region of the brain 
that contributes to obesity. 
The researchers studied the 
activity of a particular region 
of the brain, known as the 
neostriatum, while their lab 
mice were eating M&Ms; they 
observed a spike in a particular neurotransmitter called 
enkephalin.
The rats began to gorge 
themselves after their neostriatum was injected with 
enkephalin, eating as much as 
5 percent of their body weight 
in chocolate and having to 
be forcibly removed from the 
treat. The researchers believe 
this may help scientists understand the neurochemistry 
behind obesity.
Source: Scienti?c American
Elusive element 113 created at last, scientists say
Japanese researchers believe they may have created 
a new element with 113 protons  dubbed element 113. 
The element is synthetic and 
not found in nature, and if its 
existence is con?rmed, it ?lls 
a current hole in the period 
table.
The team has been working for years to create the 
element, which they synthesized by combining one zinc 
nuclei (which has 30 protons) 
into a layer of bismuth (which 
has 83 protons). The scientists hope that creating larger 
elements will help them to 
understand how atoms work 
in the natural world.
If con?rmed, this would 
mark the ?rst time that Japan 
has created a new element. 
Source: MSNBC
Breast and cervical cancer genes show similarities
Researchers have delved 
into the genetic markers of 
breast cancer, publishing 
their data in the journal Nature. The research will help 
doctors understand the genetic causes of tumors in different cancers.
The study was based on 
which genes are overactive 
and lead to tumor growth. 
The scientists discovered that 
one type  the aggressive 
basal-like tumor  has cells 
similar to those found in cervical cancer. Researchers believe chemotherapy that targets cervical cancer may also 
be bene?cial for basal-like 
tumors. The in?ux of genetic 
information may help pave 
a path toward better drug 
development.
Source: Science News
Social bullying prevalent in childrens television
A recent study published 
in the Journal of Communication revealed that 92 percent 
of childrens television shows 
involve some form of social 
aggression.
The study analyzed the top 
50 childrens programs and 
looked for examples of social 
bullying  such as gossiping  and observed whether 
the bullying was punished, 
rewarded, or justi?ed. The 
researchers found that most 
of the bullying was verbal 
aggression, and hope the 
research sheds light on the 
causes and dangers of social 
bullying.
Parents should not assume that a program is okay 
for their child to watch simply 
because it does not contain 
physical violence, said lead 
researcher Nicole Martin.
Source: Science Daily
Eroded rocks show hints that Mars had water
Recent images from 
NASAs Mars rover Curiosity 
show that the planet had a 
stream of water at some point 
in its history. The images are 
of an eroded rock with pits of 
smooth pebbles and gravel, 
an indicator for a stream of 
water ankle deep, according 
to Jim Bell, a planetary scientist working on the mission.
Peter Doran of the University of Illinois, Chicago, claims 
that the rounded grains in 
the rock are too large to have 
been smoothed by the wind.
The new information 
shows stronger evidence for 
water than ever before, giving 
more information to determine if sustained life was ever 
possible on the red planet.
Source: NPR
Compiled by
MICHAEL SETZER
SCITECH BRIEFS
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
A 2005 survey conducted 
by Research!America found 
that only 18 percent of Americans said they personally 
know a scientist. Many hypothesize that this is due to 
a lack of dialogue between 
scientists and the general 
public. To help change this, a 
new program starting this fall 
aims to encourage researchers to open up to the public 
and speak a language everyone can understand.
We feel very strongly 
that communication with the 
public is an important part 
of what we do as researchers, Jesse Dunietz, a Ph.D. 
student in computer science, 
said to a room full of researchers at the ?rst session 
of Public Communication for 
Researchers (PCR).
Dunietz serves as president of PCR, a program he 
co-created with graduate 
researchers Ardon Shorr, a 
Ph.D. student in biology and 
mechanical engineering, and 
Adona Iosif, a Ph.D. student 
in machine learning.
By learning the skills that 
we need and feeling more 
comfortable with this sort of 
thing, well be able to make a 
difference, Dunietz said.
One of Shorrs motivations 
for the program is to unlock 
the beauty of the ideas that 
motivate scientists to do the 
work they do, such as using a 
pipette to tediously move millions of drops of liquid from 
one place to another.
Its not for the money, 
and its de?nitely not because 
we like pipetting tiny drops of 
liquid, Shorr said. Its because were working on some 
of the most complex ideas 
that weve come up with as 
a species, and its a shame 
when that story doesnt get 
out.
Dunietz came up with the 
idea to start the program last 
June, when he attended a 
lecture at the Carnegie Science Center titled Is there a 
war on science in the U.S.? 
After the talk, which touched 
on the existing disconnect 
between scientists and the 
public, an audience member 
asked the lecturer, the Centers director of Science and 
Education John Radzilowicz, 
why researchers didnt receive the training to reach out 
to the public.
The idea came to fruition 
after three months of careful 
planning, with Radzilowicz 
teaching researchers some 
basics in discussing their 
work with the public and the 
media during the ?rst PCR 
session, held Sept. 20.
I believe that public outreach is really part of the 
scienti?c enterprise now, 
Radzilowicz said to those in 
attendance at the ?rst PCR 
session. It used to be something that some people could 
do and some people wanted 
to do, and Ill argue as we go 
along that its now something 
we must do.
After discussing some of 
the basics of effective science 
communication, Radzilowicz 
had those in attendance practice by explaining their research to those around them 
in as few words as possible. 
As a test, those who received 
the explanation were asked to 
describe their peers research 
to the audience.
Melissa Day, a chemical 
engineering Ph.D. student 
who researches potential impacts of climate change on air 
quality, attended the ?rst session and was pleased.
It was especially haunting and motivating to hear 
two speci?c points he raised: 
that many people dont know 
practicing scientists, and if 
you dont convince a kid that 
science is cool and a viable 
career by age 11, odds are 
youve lost them, Day said.
Amy Nagengast, a Ph.D. 
student in both civil and environmental engineering and 
engineering and public policy, said she hopes to improve 
how the interest in science is 
perceived.
To put it bluntly, I would 
like to break the stereotype 
for young people that geeks 
are not cool, she said.
The next PCR session, 
which will teach attendants 
how to more effectively tell 
science stories, will be held 
Oct. 11.
New program focuses on science communication skills
Molly Swartz/Staff Artist

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  October 1, 2012
BROOKE KUEI
Junior Staffwriter
World hunger and malnutrition: issues that many want 
to solve, but have yet to do so. 
However, Philip LeDuc, a professor in mechanical engineering, and Mary Beth Wilson, a 
Ph.D. student in biomedical 
engineering, are applying engineering to food in a way that 
could create a long-term, sustainable solution to malnutrition in Africa.
LeDuc claims that the best 
ideas come when you just 
open your mind sometimes. 
Thats what happened in his 
case: When a ketchup company contacted LeDuc for 
his expertise in mechanics, 
he decided to see where it 
would go, despite laughing 
at the idea that mechanical 
engineering had anything to 
do with ketchup. He soon realized that the way tomatoes 
are mashed and how they are 
transported through pipes for 
packaging affect the taste of 
ketchup.
Its like how my mother 
used to make mashed potatoes 
by mashing them herself  it 
was delicious, LeDuc said. 
Then she bought a blender 
and used the same exact ingredients as before ... but 
when she pressed 10 and pured them, it turned into this 
soupy mess that my brothers 
and I refused to eat.
Everybody loves good 
ketchup, but LeDuc thought 
the concept of using mechanical engineering to make food 
more palatable could be used 
in a more meaningful way. 
Thats when he turned to 
Wilson, his graduate student, 
whom he remembered had a 
penchant for cooking.
I started looking into molecular gastronomy, Wilson 
said. What if you could use 
scraps of food, like peels, and 
turn it into something good?
A few months later, LeDuc 
received an email from the Bill 
and Melinda Gates Foundation about its Grand Challenge 
Exploration Grant, a $1 million award for a research idea 
that explores nutrition for infants and children.
What if you could take 
a nutrient-rich plant that already existed inside a thirdworld country, but people 
just wouldn't eat it? LeDuc 
explained. And what if 
you could use mechanics to 
change that taste, to make it 
from something they dont like 
to something they do like?
Wilson did some research 
and found that there is a weed 
called amaranth that is high in 
vitamin A and other nutrients, 
but is not eaten because of its 
bitter taste.
What made amaranth attractive was the widespread 
nature of its growth and the 
fact that there are many varieties throughout the world, 
Wilson said. Also, since it is 
a weed, it can pretty much be 
grown anywhere, so we ?gured it could be grown in Pittsburgh.
In a mere 10 days, LeDuc 
and Wilson went from being 
intrigued by the concept of 
how mechanics could affect 
food palatability to writing a 
proposal for the Grand Challenge Exploration Grant. His 
project would use mechanical 
engineering to study how different methods of preparing 
amaranth could change its 
taste, as well as increase its 
nutritional value by altering 
the plant's cellular structure to 
optimize the release of its nutrients during digestion.
Several months later, their 
hard work and creative thinking paid off: They received the 
grant.
For the past year, LeDuc 
and Wilson have been exploring the effects that different 
ways of preparing amaranth 
will have on its nutritional 
value. For example, chopped 
carrots retain most of their 
vitamins while steamed carrots lose their water-soluble 
vitamins.
We are taking the plant 
and were cutting it up in different ways and at different 
speeds, LeDuc said. For example, how does making it 
very ?ne versus chopping it 
into bigger chunks change the 
nutritional value?
Along the way, they have 
had help from the Phipps 
Conservatory, where the 
amaranth is grown. And, as it 
turns out, the president of the 
Amaranth Institute, which is 
devoted to studying how the 
plant can be better utilized, is 
a Carnegie Mellon alumnus 
who has been eager to help 
out the researchers.
Its in its early stage, but it 
has high end potential, LeDuc 
said. The project explores a 
new ?eld of science and tackles a tremendous goal: ending 
world hunger. But thats what 
were about at Carnegie Mellon, LeDuc said. High risk 
and high rewards.
 RAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Staffwriter
Everyone knows that sleep is important, 
but many of us tend to let sleep take a backseat to all the other activities that ?ll our busy 
lives. Many combat a lack of sleep by taking 
naps in class or by indulging in a dose  or 
multiple doses  of caffeine. This may help 
us get through a day, but that lack of sleep can 
add up, and the consequences of consistently 
not receiving enough sleep can be detrimental.
Without sleep, many aspects of our body 
 such as muscle repair, memory consolidation, and the release of hormones  fall out 
of rhythm.
There are multiple stages of sleep, each of 
which individually contributes to rejuvenating the body. In the ?rst stage, the body slowly 
becomes disengaged from its surroundings as 
the body temperature drops. As the body enters a deeper sleep, the brain remains active 
as the involuntary nervous system maintains 
breathing and a slower heart rate and relaxes 
the muscles. The most important aspect of this 
stage is the release of various hormones that 
travel through the bodys circulatory system. 
These hormones are essential for growth and 
development.
About 25 percent of human sleep is characterized as Rapid Eye Movement (REM), sleep 
that occurs at 90-minute intervals from when 
we fall asleep. During these intervals,our body 
releases high amounts of melatonin, activating 
pathways that play important roles in providing energy to the brain and body.
People typically experience most of their 
dreams during REM sleep. During dreams, areas of the brain associated with learning and 
memory are stimulated, and limb muscles 
become temporarily paralyzed so dreams are 
not physically acted out by the body. A single 
nights sleep may produce many dreams, but 
people typically only remember the dream 
from the most recent REM phase. Currently, 
there is no consensus among the scienti?c 
community as to why people dream and what 
purpose dreams serve.
A survey by the National Sleep Foundation 
(NSF) found that 87 percent of people watch 
TV or use a computer within an hour before 
going to bed. These bright lights can suppress 
the bodys output of melatonin, a chemical 
that controls sleep and wake biological clocks. 
Many students study late into the night on 
their laptops, which stimulates the mind instead of relaxing it, making it harder for the 
body to get the rest it needs.
Professionals at the NSF suggest that 
people should sleep in a place different from 
where they work so that the body recognizes 
a speci?c place, such as their beds, for sleep. 
The amount of sleep necessary to maintain a 
healthy lifestyle drops slightly as a person ages, 
but doctors advise that teenagers and young 
adults should get 89 hours of sleep per night. 
HelpGuide.org states that trying to function 
the day after losing four hours of sleep can be 
equated to driving with a blood alcohol level of 
over 0.1 percent, which is over the legal limit.
In addition to the immediate effects of losing sleep, such as decreased productivity, the 
lack of sleep can lead to health problems in the 
future. Hormones released during sleep play 
important roles in preventing weight gain and 
lowering blood pressure. Without this regulation, one faces a higher risk of obesity, heart 
problems, and early-onset diabetes.
Researchers utilize engineering to combat world hunger
Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
Biomedical engineering doctoral student Mary Beth Wilson is working on how to make amaranth, a prevalent 
weed in developing countries, edible.
The mechanisms of sleeping
HOW THINGS WORK
Molly Swartz/Staff Artist
 JENNIFER GOLDA
Junior Staffwriter
At last years Meeting of 
the Minds undergraduate 
research symposium, skeletons of characters gracefully 
walked around the screen of 
?rst-year computer science 
major Hank Zwallys laptop 
in a high-quality, 3-D environment. His independent study 
research, which aimed to create a video game, would eventually lead to the start of his 
own company.
Fast-forward through ?-
nals and summer vacation, 
and Zwally and his team are 
applying their research on 
a fully developed version of 
the technology presented 
last spring. Since Meeting 
of the Minds, their company 
 Mojo Game Studios, LCC 
 has begun its work on its 
premiere product, a game 
scheduled for release in early 
2014. In the ?ctional land of 
Annora, players will be able to 
choose a character from ?ve 
unique character classes, each 
with six distinct weapons. The 
decision on the games of?cial 
title is still pending.
Zwally, now a sophomore, 
is president and executive 
producer of Mojo Game Studios. He described the game 
as a ?rst-person adventure 
fantasy RPG with goals to 
combine immersive, emotionally tantalizing, and provoking scenes and environments 
with exceptional and revolutionary ?rst-person combat. 
Mojo Game Studios goal is to 
produce a game as skill-based 
and ?uid as Halo while as aesthetically pleasing as Crysis 2, 
all applied to a medieval melee combat environment.
The team aims to rede?ne 
the experience of playing a 
traditional character class. 
For instance, the Ranger 
class ?ghts as an archetypal 
marksman at long ranges, 
and as the distance between 
the character and its target 
decreases, the motions and 
attacks increasingly transition 
into that of a unique marksman/ninja class.
The company, consisting 
primarily of full-time students, believes it is on track to 
completing its goal of making 
a superior ?rst-person roleplaying game. They are employing CryENGINE3, considered by game reviewer IGN 
to be among the best game 
engines on the market, and 
are coding primarily in C++ 
and C#. Their team of 10 students from last semester has 
expanded to 30 globally distributed members from Carnegie Mellon and abroad.
Zwallys company is made 
up solely of volunteers. One 
of the key factors to the volunteer-based enterprises success is its contributors enthusiasm for the project and their 
self-driven natures.
We are using one of the 
best game engines in the industry, and this foundation 
will help our own work be 
even better, said Ben Chung, 
Mojo Game Studios technical director and a sophomore 
computer science major. I am 
excited about all of the potential, and hope that our technical work will allow our game 
to really shine.
Josh Eiten, a sophomore 
Bachelors of Humanities and 
Arts student, feels the same 
way. Eiten  who is the companys creative director and 
lead concept artist  and 
Chung are two of the core 
members alongside Zwally.
Im both living my dream 
and tackling exceptional 
problems that arise in globally 
distributed software development, Zwally said regarding 
starting up and running such 
a project. I think the biggest 
problem we have so far is 
working with a team that has 
varying levels of commitment 
and involvement and [that] 
these people are also globally 
distributed.
Video game research turns into game-making startup
Jennifer Golda/Junior Photographer
From left to right: Ben Chung, Josh Eiten, and Hank Zwally stand in front of the map of Annora, the ?ctional 
setting for their video game.

---------------------------------------------------

FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Town Hall meeting is a good start to engage students
Apple leaves users lost and disoriented with Maps
Energy drinks are poor substitutes for healthy rest
This semester, weve noticed a 
striking increase in corporations oncampus marketing tactics.
Large companies such as Google, 
Microsoft, and Sony have already 
been using student ambassadors on 
campus. Now Red Bull, 5-Hour Energy, and other energy drink companies have entered the fray and hired 
student representatives to promote 
their products.
While these marketing tactics 
seem a bit underhanded, products 
from companies like Microsoft and 
Google have real merit; new programs and devices can help students 
complete homework faster, prepare 
for jobs, and learn skills applicable in 
the real world. Energy drinks, however, have no merit other than the 
supposed energy boost followed by 
a debilitating crash at the end of the 
day.
Its a sad truth that Carnegie Mellon students keep ridiculously late 
hours and suffer from sleep deprivation on a regular basis. Professors 
arent going to assign less homework, and students arent going to 
drop every extracurricular or stop 
having social lives. Naturally, Carnegie Mellons extreme work ethic 
drives students to drink coffee, tea, 
Red Bull, and other forms of liquid 
energy.
But actively encouraging students 
to imbibe even more of these energy 
drinks when getting the required 
amount of sleep is so much healthier 
seems a bit masochistic. Even more 
than that, the fact that energy drink 
corporations are targeting Carnegie 
Mellon means that our communitys 
weakness and drive to overachieve is 
being exploited for monetary gain.
If your body says rest, then 
rest. The energy gained from large 
amounts of caffeine and energy 
drinks can cause insomnia, nervousness, restlessness, irritability, upset 
stomach, fast heartbeat, and muscle tremors, according to the Mayo 
Clinic. In contrast, a 15 to 20 minute 
nap will increase alertness and decision making skills for a longer period 
than most energy drinks.
Better that we give our bodies the 
rest they need and make sure our 
campus culture of work-till-you-drop 
doesnt get out of hand.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Student Body President Will 
Weiner and Vice President Meela 
Dudley hosted a town hall meeting, 
titled Campus (Chi)Politics, last 
Wednesday evening in the University Center. Posters for the event advertised that free Chipotle burritos 
would be given to ?rst 100 people 
who attended the meeting.
Despite a lack of date, time, and 
location for the meeting on the promotional posters, it was well-attended, and gave students the opportunity to connect with their student 
government leaders. 
Although Weiner and Dudley 
didnt offer up concrete solutions 
to some of the issues raised, such 
as dif?culties communicating with 
campus services and the addition of 
parking meters on Margaret Morrison Street, they did take notes on 
students comments and promised to 
follow up.
Most importantly, the town hall 
meeting represented a part of Weiner and Dudleys continued engagement with the campus community. 
They co-hosted a welcome-back 
barbecue at the beginning of the 
semester, have held weekly of?ce 
hours, planned a U.S. Presidential 
Debate Watch Party for this Wednesday, and their Facebook page, Carnegie Mellon Student Body President 
and Vice President, is frequently 
updated with pictures and messages 
about events happening on campus.
Although they have yet to create 
a blog to keep the student body up 
to date on the work they do, as they 
had promised, Weiner and Dudley 
have already been a much greater 
presence on campus than their 
predecessors. 
We hope to see their efforts extend beyond mere engagement and 
into action as the year progresses, 
but in the meantime, we commend 
their (delicious) efforts to communicate with the student body.
Jackson video stutters its pro-Obama message
A7  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  October 1, 2012
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Stephanie 
Guerdan, Greg Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
LAYOUT
Chloe Chia, Abby Smith, Edward Wojciechowski 
COPY
Swathi Anand, Manali Banerjee, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Kairavi Chahal, Connie Chan, 
Nivedita Chopra, Hannah Dellabella, Braden 
Kelner, Sage Po, Taylor Rawley, Stephanie 
Stern, Chloe Thompson, Julia Yang
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
ANNA WALSH *
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
RACHEL COHEN
Asst. Pillbox Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
Asst. SciTech Editor
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
LUKE MASA
Junior Staffwriter
Usually, when I think of movie 
star Samuel L. Jackson, I dont think 
of his political activism. But recently, 
Jackson appeared in an advertisement targeted at those who voted 
for President Barack Obama in the 
2008 election but have since grown 
apathetic. I worry about the kind of 
reaction it will elicit.
There are numerous sections 
of the video that may make people 
cringe. Worst of all is a little girl 
spouting off the theme of the video 
to her family to Wake the f*ck up!
Now, Im no prude  I enjoy 
Jacksons ?lms, and such language 
is used frequently in them. However, theyre using a child to push a 
political agenda, and on top of that, 
they made her last line so vulgar. 
No doubt it will add fuel to the ?re 
of social conservatives across the 
country; it ?ts quite well into their 
preconceived narrative of Hollywood and liberalism as corruptors 
of the youth.
It seems to me that the makers 
of this video, including scriptwriter 
Adam Mansbach  the author of 
parody childrens book Go the F*ck 
to Sleep, the audio version of which 
Jackson narrated  didnt consider 
its potential negative effects.
Clearly the intended purpose of 
the video was to energize the liberal 
base, because unless there is a very 
large cross-section of undecided voters and fans of Jackson, its very easy 
to predict the reactions to this video. 
To complicate matters further, there 
is a record of Jackson saying, in an 
interview with Ebony magazine, 
that he voted for Barack because he 
was black.
To state so plainly a sole motivation for choosing a particular 
candidate, then suddenly having 
plenty of reasons not to vote for the 
other guy, comes off as dubious and 
disingenuous. 
If Jackson had expressed his dissatisfaction with John McCain back 
in 2008, it would be perfectly reasonable to assume he prefers the 
policies of the current president to 
the Republican candidate, whomever that may be.
Now, however, it is all too easy 
for conservatives to accuse Jackson 
of not supporting Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney because hes white. This advertisement 
is dangerous if only for the fact that 
it further erodes the level of discussion acceptable in politics.
It comes as no surprise to me that 
a super PAC funded this video and it 
was thus technically created without the approval of any candidate, 
because I sincerely doubt Obama 
would have thought this was a prudent choice. Jacksons attempt to be 
a part of the solution is really only 
making matters worse.
Sure it was pretty funny, in a bizarre sort of way, but at what cost? 
The minimal laughter comes at a 
heavy price, another nail in the cof?n of civil political discourse. Thats 
where we really need the wake-up 
call.
KYLE HENSON
The Federal Reserve recently 
announced its third round of quantitative easing, otherwise known as 
QE3. Quantitative easing is de?ned 
by The Washington Post as an unconventional monetary tool used 
by central banks to stimulate the 
economy ... [the Federal Reserve] 
can buy up assets like long-term 
Treasuries or mortgage-backed securities from commercial banks and 
other institutions.
QE3 amounts to printing ?nite 
and predetermined amounts of 
money. The ?rst round was worth 
$1.4 trillion and the second round 
worth $600 billion. What makes 
the third round so scary is that the 
whole predetermined quantity aspect now goes out the window. With 
QE3, the Federal Reserve has committed to buying $40 billion in mortgage backed securities per month 
for an inde?nite amount of time, 
causing it to be dubbed QEternity 
by publications such as Barrons.
Printing money in methods like 
QE3 is often the last refuge of failed 
republics. This choice indicates that 
we are certainly not in a good economic spot, and things will probably 
worsen. The most surprising thing 
about QE3, however, is that several 
of?cials within the Federal Reserve 
dont think it is going to make anything better at all.
According to Reuters, chairman 
of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve 
Mark Plosser has said he believes 
that increasing monetary policy accommodation is neither appropriate nor likely to be effective in the 
current environment. Similarly, 
when the massive QE1 and QE2 programs as well as the Operation Twist 
(which was basically cover for more 
asset buying) have managed to fail 
this whole time, its likely that QE3 
will not be the magical exception. 
Short-term in?ation can often 
create the illusion of demand. Bolstering one failing sector in the short 
term will, at the very least, prevent 
things from getting worse between 
now and November. 
Maybe Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, like most Americans, just wants to keep his job. 
Unfortunately, its plausible that 
Bernanke realizes that if Republican 
candidate Mitt Romney wins, hell 
probably be replaced. Therefore, he 
may be trying to make conditions 
optimal for President Barack Obama 
to win. These conditions include a 
robust and recovering economy, especially in the housing market, particularly the secondary mortgage 
market whose failure caused the 
recession.
Described by Forbes columnist 
James Dorn as ?nancial morphine, 
QE3 seems to be a failure from the 
beginning as its predecessors were. 
The Federal Reserve will need to sell 
the trillions of dollars on its balance 
sheet in assets. 
Thats when well really see the 
negative effects of the QE series. 
As of right now, there dont seem 
to be many positive aspects of the 
initiative.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Quantitative easing will make recovery dif?cult
Apple CEO Tim Cook wrote an 
open letter to customers, apologizing 
for the new Maps application in iOS 
6  and rightfully so. The upgrade 
to iOS 6 came with redeeming applications like Passbook, which organizes tickets, gift cards, and other 
payment options, as well as the new 
features like the photo sharing ability for iCloud. However, the release 
of this new operating system is 
marred by the Maps application that 
launched with it.
Current problems with Maps include misplaced, misnamed, and 
oversized locations, such as a nature park in Portland that appears 
to cover most of the citys east side; 
lack of named infrastructure landmarks, including many bridges; 
and, worst of all for this countrys 
youth, the removed ability to search 
for public transit routes. Americans 
took 10.2 billion trips on public 
transportation in 2011, according to 
publictransportation.org, and public 
transportation usage is steadily increasing. 
Apple left out a resource in its 
Maps application that is vitally important to the population. In Pittsburgh especially, the bus system can 
be capricious, and its comforting to 
have a method for easily checking 
bus routes at ones ?ngertips. 
Ideally, Apple would have kept its 
old standard of using Google Maps as 
its default maps app. But since Apple 
has been weaning itself off Googles 
support over the past few years, the 
company clearly wanted to create an 
application independent of any third 
party that could meet or exceed the 
quality of its past, Google-af?liated 
Maps application.
Apples intermediate ?x for this 
comes in the form of recommendations for third-party public transportation apps, such as Embark and 
Transit, and established web-based 
services like MapQuest.
For the biggest name in consumer 
electronics, which prides itself in innovation and staying ahead of the 
curve, this is dramatically out of 
character. If Apple had taken just a 
bit longer to troubleshoot Maps before making it public, it could have 
saved itself a lot of consumer headache. Hopefully the company will 
receive enough complaints that it 
will prioritize ?xing the glaring errors with its app  or perhaps wed 
be better off with Google Maps remaining the dominant navigation 
application.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Jennifer Coloma
Autumn is often a colorful season. So we asked,
If you had to choose one color to never see again, what would it be?
Smartphones create social crutch
ELI ZOGHLIN
Junior Staffwriter
I dont have an irrational fear of 
technology, and Im not forecasting 
the impending robot revolution. My 
reasons for opting out of the smartphone lifestyle  I think the intense 
attachment that people have for 
their smartphones justi?es calling it 
such  are varied.
When smartphones ?rst emerged 
on the market, my decision not to 
buy one was based primarily on ?-
nancial factors. To put that plainly: 
My parents said I would have to pay 
for the data plan, and I didnt have a 
job. The decision pretty much made 
itself.
As smartphones gained popularity, my parents noticed all my 
friends sporting sleek new iPhones 
and again inquired if I would like 
one; this time, the data plan would 
be on them. However, by this point, 
I didnt want one regardless of who 
was picking up the bill.
I have watched as the cellphone 
population of my friend group 
swung mainly to smartphones, and 
two things have stood out to me. 
First, a person who owns a smartphone is never without it, or is panicking about accidentally leaving it 
at home. 
The phone is either in his or her 
hand or its about to be, often in response to someone asking a question 
that Google can answer.
The second thing Ive noticed 
is the smartphone culture that has 
sprung up. 
People will swap Temple Run 
high scores on their Android phones, 
agree to follow each other on Instagram, or just spend a pleasant moment together staring at their BlackBerry screens. 
Ive termed this behavior as 
smartphone bonding, due to the 
rapid connection smartphone culture often forms.
While I can see that there are 
many useful features of a smartphone, I dont want to let a signi?-
cant portion of my life be de?ned 
by my phone. The obsessive feeling 
that people have toward their smartphones is a type of materialism and 
dependence that I ?nd uncomfortable. I like not having to worry about 
my phone like its my baby. I can survive a day without it with no panic 
attacks. My phone has no hold on 
me  its a tool that I use when I feel 
like it, not a constant extension of my 
hand.
Additionally, I dont want my 
phone to become a social crutch. 
Conversation stalling? Just pull out 
your smartphone and hit up Angry 
Birds. Every second where something isnt immediately happening 
is often occupied by the many entertainments smartphones offer.
So yes, my phone only calls and 
sends texts, and maybe I get lost a 
little more than the average smartphone user. 
However, I console myself with 
the thought that at least I wont forget how to keep a conversation going 
and that I can survive independent 
of my technology. And, of course, it 
gives me the slight hope that Ill survive the eventual robot uprising just 
a little bit longer.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
JUSTIN McGOWN
Intel announced that it would no 
longer be sponsoring the Boy Scouts 
of America (BSA) last week, costing 
the BSA its largest corporate donor 
and hundreds of thousands of dollars. Intels move to drop support for 
the BSA was inspired in large part 
by Eagle Scout Zach Wahls actions 
against his own organization.
Why is an Eagle Scout attempting to undermine the funding for 
an organization in which he clearly 
has invested much time and energy? 
Raised by two women, Wahls is a 
noted advocate for gay rights and just 
one of many to denounce the BSAs 
anti-gay policies in recent years.
The single most important partner 
organization for the BSA, however, 
remains the the Mormon Church, 
since it enrolls its male youth and 
pays their dues. As a result, the BSA 
often adopts stances that put it in 
line with the wishes of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and 
other major religious organizations.
While receiving ?nancial support 
from the federal government and simultaneously barring atheists and 
promoting religion is a major point 
of contention, the BSAs stance on 
gay rights is on even ?imsier ground. 
The BSAs has corrupted its mission 
statement to prepare young people 
to make ethical and moral choices 
over their lifetimes by instilling in 
them the values of the Scout Oath 
and Law.
The current claim that homosexuality somehow breaks this clause 
is nothing short of medieval. Many 
Eagle Scouts have renounced their 
ranks and returned their medals in 
a concerted campaign after the BSA 
decided to uphold its ban on homosexual scouts and leaders, and some 
troops have openly declared nonobservance of the policy.
While Freedom of Association 
gives the BSA the legal right to ban 
gay scouts, I believe that this should 
be superseded by a moral imperative.
Having attended a magnet elementary school, transitioning to 
middle school was similar to moving 
to a new town. I knew almost nobody, and this made being 13 years 
old even less fun. The bright spot of 
every week through those years was 
my weekly troop meeting. There, in 
addition to the fun activities involving knives, ?re, and dirt, I met the 
people who would become my closest 
friends, and a few people I was forced 
to learn how to tolerate.
The BSA played a huge part in de?ning who I am, but it was also one of 
the main reasons I never had to deal 
with truly severe depression beyond 
the typical teen angst.
Columbia University researchers 
released a report in the journal Pediatrics last year that gay teenagers 
are up to four times more likely to 
attempt suicide than their heterosexual peers. To restrict scouting from a 
group of teens who would bene?t so 
much from community and acceptance is both callous and malicious.
The BSA stands alone amongst 
American scouting organizations on 
this issue. The Girl Scouts of America 
accepts LGBT members and leaders, as do the of?cial scouting organizations of most every other nation in the Western world. The BSA 
frequently asserts its independence 
in upholding these antiquated and 
harmful policies, when in reality it 
is just af?rming its entanglement to 
policies out of step with the rest of 
the country.
Justin McGown (jmcgown@) is online 
editor for The Tartan.
Boy Scouts policies on gay members must be changed
October 1, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A8
XIYU WANG
Junior Staffwriter
There are just over ?ve weeks 
before the election, and Republican 
presidential candidate Mitt Romney 
has not been doing well. A recent 
Washington Post poll shows that 
he is six points behind President 
Barack Obama among registered 
voters. Prediction market website 
Intrade.com puts Romneys chances 
at around 22 percent to Obamas 77 
percent. Furthermore, a new Quinnipiac University poll shows Obama 
in the lead in Florida and Ohio, two 
key battleground states.
How did Romney end up so 
behind? 
After all, just a few months ago, 
things were not looking too good 
for Obama. His campaign was struggling to create a coherent narrative 
of why Americans should renew 
hope and change  the economy 
had not recovered as it should have, 
most of Obamas campaign promises 
had gone unful?lled, and the debt 
situation was worse than ever.
However, the Obama campaign 
staff has gotten its act together over 
the past few months.
They have a clear message: Despite the immense dif?culties of the 
last four years, Obama has accomplished a lot. Vote for him and hell 
continue the good ?ght.
That message is a huge contrast 
to Romneys, whose campaign is still 
?ustered in self-contradictions and 
vague policy proposals. 
Rather than presenting a concise, 
guiding vision, Romneys campaign 
has merely tried to avoid con?icts 
with any particular group, as exempli?ed in his economic policy. Not 
only does he promise to reduce the 
budget de?cit to appease the de?-
cit hawks, but he also plans to do it 
without raising taxes.
Of course, there will have to be 
cuts in spending and deductions, 
but Romney has yet to specify which 
programs he will cut and how much. 
Overall, the plan is unworkable, 
opaque, and politically shifty.
The same goes for Romneys 
other positions; where they havent 
changed completely, they are terribly vague. He disapproves of Obamacare, but is proud of the Massachusetts plan it was based upon, the very 
plan he signed into law. On  60 Minutes, he chastised Obama for having 
cut $716 billion to Medicare, despite 
the fact that he chose a running 
mate whose budget plan included 
those same cuts. The most cohesive 
part of Romneys message is, I dont 
like Obama. Unfortunately, Romney cannot rely on voters dislike of 
Obama alone; he needs to convince 
the public that he is actually a better 
alternative.
Americans will be reluctant to 
trade in their old car if the alternative is just another car of the same 
quality, but entirely unfamiliar. 
Technically speaking, Romney 
should have an advantage: The election is still operating under an antiincumbent environment. According 
to Gallup, 54 percent of Americans 
believe that the economy is getting worse, and RealClearPolitics, 
a polling aggregator, shows that 56 
percent believe that the country is 
headed in the wrong direction.
With less than 40 days before 
the election, however, and a recent 
string of gaffes that have made 
members of his own party cringe, 
the window of time has diminished 
signi?cantly for Romney and his 
campaign. One thing is certain, 
however. These last few weeks before the election will be crucial for 
both campaigns.
Romney should focus campaigns message
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Trisha Ambe
Materials Science & Engineering, 
Biomedical Engineering
Junior
Brown.
Katherine Kirby
Computer Science
Junior
Puce.
Ashley Figatner
Materials Science & Engineering, 
Biomedical Engineering
Senior
Grey.
Norman Ponte
Math
First-year
Black.
Zach Betka
MechE
Senior
Mustard.

---------------------------------------------------

CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
Forty-?ve years ago, the 
Boston Red Sox were in the 
midst of a tight pennant race 
with the Detroit Tigers and 
the Minnesota Twins to win 
the American League Championship Series. With the help 
of their left ?elder Carl Yastrzemski and his .513 batting 
average, ?ve home runs and 
16 runs batted in (RBIs) over 
the last two weeks, the Red 
Sox claimed the American 
League pennant.
While they eventually 
ended up losing the World Series to the St. Louis Cardinals, 
Yastrzemskis ?nal two weeks 
propelled him to win the Batting Triple Crown and to be 
voted as the Most Valuable 
Player (MVP).
Yastrzemski was the last 
player to lead his league in 
batting average, home runs, 
and RBIs at the end of the 
season. Now, in the midst of 
another tight pennant race, 
Tigers third baseman Miguel 
Cabrera has a chance at the 
Triple Crown. The difference is that most of baseball 
doesnt really seem to care.
Baseball is a sport steeped 
in tradition. Zealous baseball 
historians have been ?ghting instant replay for years 
because it would take away 
the human element and add 
a technological one. When 
Commissioner Bud Selig instituted interleague play in 
1997, old-time players and 
fans nearly revolted. 
But baseball has ?nally 
entered the modern age with 
its expanded instant replay, 
its constant interleague play 
starting with Opening Day in 
2013, and now its acceptance 
of new and improved statistics.
Many of baseballs old statistics didnt show a players 
true contributions: Batting 
average does not account for 
the added bene?t of walks 
and sacri?ces; RBIs are more 
related to ones position in the 
batting order and the ability 
of the players before they get 
on base than to ones ability 
to hit.
In the 45 years since Yastrzemski won the Triple Crown, 
all three parts have become 
less revered and relevant  
the steroid era has made the 
home run lose much of its former luster. Cabrera is currently just one home run behind 
the Texas Rangers out?elder 
Josh Hamilton, and is leading 
in both batting average and 
RBIs.
However, he is still a second thought in the MVP conversation behind the Los Angeles Angels out?elder Mike 
Trout, a rookie who was in 
the minor leagues for the ?rst 
month of the season.
Cabrera still has a chance 
at MVP, especially if the Angels miss the playoffs and 
the Tigers can hold off the 
Chicago White Sox to win the 
American League Central. 
The fact remains, however, 
that he will by no means be 
the unanimous choice. This is 
a sure sign of the times: Trout 
is an example of the new 
baseball player, while Cabrera 
exempli?es the old-school 
hitter.
Trout is the leader of the 
new wave of ?ve-tool players like Washington Nationals rookie Bryce Harper who 
excel at the plate, on the base 
paths, and in the ?eld. Cabrera is a better hitter than Trout, 
but Trout is a far better base 
runner and a Gold Glove-caliber ?elder. In recent years the 
MVP award has rewarded the 
best all-around player rather 
than the best hitter, and this 
is where Cabrera is at a stark 
disadvantage.
Had he played 45 years 
ago, Cabrera would be celebrated and guaranteed MVP 
recognition. But today, with 
fans, journalists, and teams 
focused on the all-around 
contribution, he is viewed as 
a one-trick pony. Cabrera is 
arguably the leagues greatest hitter, but the game now 
focuses on all aspects, not just 
the glamorous ones.
The Triple Crown has become a relic of a former era of 
baseball, before moneyball 
and sabermetrics. While there 
will always be places in the 
league for players like Cabrera, he and the Triple Crown 
will not be viewed with the 
same admiration as they were 
back when Yastrzemski won. 
Instead, they will be stuck in 
the shadow of the 21-year-old 
rookie leadoff hitter who has 
more stolen bases than home 
runs and more runs than 
RBIs.
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The womens tennis team 
made its yearly trip to Fredericksburg, Va., where they 
played in the Intercollegiate 
Tennis Association (ITA) 
Southeast Regional Championships, hosted by the University of Mary Washington. 
The Tartans were competing 
for spots in the ITA Small College Championships, hosted 
in Mobile, Ala.; however, the 
team did not have any women 
qualify this year. Nevertheless, the ITA Regional welcomed the team with warm, 
sunny weather for play.
The tournament was based 
solely on individual performances, and gave the ?rstyear team members a taste of 
the broad range of talent in 
Division-III tennis.
First-year Elizabeth Martin 
played con?dently throughout the tournament. Martin 
seeded ninth and battled her 
way through the draw, defeating the fourth-seeded Elaine 
Baik of John Hopkins University in a marathon threeset match 61, 46, 76 (2) 
in the quarter?nals. Martin 
saw some relief with a quick 
61, 63 victory over Shannon Herndon of John Hopkins 
University in the semi?nals.
In the ?nals, Martin was 
topped by Washington and 
Lee Universitys Meghan Buell 
76 (2), 64. Prior to the ?-
nals, Buell defeated Carnegie 
Mellon junior Katie Cecil in 
the semi?nals and ?rst-year 
Abbey Hamstra three rounds 
before.
Martin was not only Carnegie Mellons top ?nisher in 
singles, but also in doubles. 
She paired up with sophomore Bryn Raschke, and the 
duo made a push all the way 
to the semi?nals. They went 
into the tournament as the 
?fth seeds and ?nished within 
the top four. In the semi?nals, 
Martin and Raschke faced 
Buell and Washington and Lee 
Universitys Claire Cahill, losing the pro-set 86.
I had some real tests physically and mentally during 
ITAs, but I felt all the training 
and coaching Ive had in the 
past few weeks helped. It was 
really exciting being able to 
represent Carnegie Mellon in 
competition, Martin said.
Senior Alex Tapak and 
sophomore Angela Pratt defeated every team they played 
in the Blue Draw for doubles 
 which was not part of regular tournament play  and 
brought two trophies back to 
Carnegie Mellon.
We lost some great seniors 
last year, but this tournament 
showed that were still going to be solid and competing 
with the top teams this year, 
Raschke said.
The womens tennis team 
will wrap up their fall season 
at home with a match on Friday against Oberlin College at 
4:30 p.m.
Editors Note: Alex Tapak 
is Sports Co-Editor for The 
Tartan.
October 1, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
SPORTS COMMENTARYThe tradition of the Triple Crown
Courtesy of treasuresthouhast via Flickr
Carl Yastrzemskis batting helmet preserved in the Smithsonian.
Martin exceeds ?rst-year expectations
Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
First-year Elizabeth Martin played her way to the ?nals of singles.
Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
Sophomore Bryn Raschke made it to the doubles semi?nals with Martin.
Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
Sophomore Angela Pratt won two matches in the singles backdraw.
Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
Womens soccer also hosted Washington University in St. Louis and will travel to Chicago next weekend.
Greg Hanneman/Senior Photographer
Mens soccer hosted Washington University in St. Louis for their ?rst conference game.
FEATURE PHOTOSoccer begins conference play
Chloe Chia/Junior Artist

---------------------------------------------------

SARA GUO
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons volleyball team hosted the Waynesburg University Yellow Jackets 
last Wednesday.
The Tartans lost a close ?rst 
game (2522), so the team 
knew it needed to make some 
improvements.
The game against Waynesburg started off slow, ?rstyear setter Emily Lawlis said. 
But after the ?rst match, we 
came together and agreed to 
focus on our side of the court. 
We picked up our energy level 
and cut down our errors.
After the ?rst game, the 
Tartans bounced back to end 
the match with a 31 (2522, 
2516, 2516, 2510) victory.
Before the Tartans took 
the last three games, junior 
outside hitter Senna Parsa noticed some things that needed 
to change.
It took us a while to get 
our hitting on point, and we 
as hitters werent being smart 
with our ball placement, 
Parsa said. Once we got comfortable with the holes they 
were leaving in the blocks and 
in the middle of the court, 
we mixed the offense up with 
some tips to the middle and 
some short kills through the 
seam of the block.
Sophomore right side hitter Ali Celentano led the team 
with 14 kills against the Yellow 
Jackets. Parsa had 12 kills and 
15 digs. Junior middle blocker 
Olivia Mora proved to be a 
presence at the net with nine 
kills and ?ve blocks. Sophomore libero Ali Nichols tallied 
27 digs. Lawlis collected a season-best 24 assists.
Although Lawlis is only a 
?rst-year, she loves the support from her older teammates.
The upperclassmen are all 
helpful and encouraging to everyone, Lawlis said. They do 
their best to include the freshmen in everything, on and off 
the court. I couldnt ask for 
better teammates.
Last weekend, the Tartans 
traveled to the University of 
Chicago to play in the University Athletic Association 
Round Robin No. 1.
Their ?rst match was 
against host University of Chicago, and then they played 
sixth-ranked Emory University.
The following day, the Tartans matched up against New 
York University.
In order to come home 
with victories, Lawlis believes 
enjoyment is a big part of the 
game.
We need to have fun, 
Lawlis said. When everyone 
plays their best and has fun 
while doing so, we win.
Parsa thinks that positive 
thinking can bene?t overall 
performance.
As a team we need to remember that theres nothing 
we can do about that point 
that we just gave to the other 
team, Parsa said. We just 
have to shake it off and focus 
on what we can do to get the 
next point. Right here right 
now.
The Tartans will then host 
the University Athletic Association Round Robin No. 2 in 
Skibo Gymnasium.
A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  October 1, 2012
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The Tartan football team 
tried to keep its undefeated 
streak alive Saturday when 
playing the No. 17-ranked 
Wabash College Little Giants 
in Crawfordsville, Ind. After 
a tremendous ?rst quarter, 
in which the Tartans jumped 
out to a 217 lead, the Little 
Giants played big and took 
the game from Carnegie Mellon, 5428.
Junior quarterback Rob 
Kalkstein had a good day 
throwing the ball, completing 
17 of his 24 passes, but only 
found the end zone once in a 
pass to senior running back 
Patrick Blanks.
Blanks also scored another time running the ball, 
and junior fullback Zachary 
Erra-Hernandez scored in the 
rushing game.
The offense, as a whole, 
played solid football. However, it was a complete lapse 
on the defensive side of the 
ball, evident by the 54 points 
Wabash put up.
The number of fumbles 
in the game was also overwhelming, as the Tartan offense fumbled the ball three 
times, twice with Wabash recovering.
The Little Giants racked 
up 556 yards of total offense 
and averaged a monstrous 
8.1 yards per play. Carnegie 
Mellon had trouble corralling the Wabash speed, losing 
in number of tackles to the 
Little Giants, 8059.
Missed tackles is a problem that needs to be addressed as the team heads 
into this weeks game against 
the Denison University Big 
Red.
However, the highlight of 
the game came on a Wabash 
punt ?elded by senior cornerback Sam Thompson at 
the 8-yard line. Thompson 
returned the kick 92 yards 
for the touchdown in the ?rst 
quarter.
That play should have 
given the Tartans more motivation and drive, but the 
touchdown seemed to light 
a ?re under the Little Giants 
instead.
Senior quarterback Chase 
Belton had a great all-around 
performance for Wabash College. His 13 for 23 passing 
for 183 yards is modest, but 
he did complete four passing 
touchdowns and ran in three 
touchdowns himself. Belton 
rushed 20 times for 193 yards 
on the day.
On Saturday, the Tartans 
play Denison University at 
home. Kickoff is at 1 p.m.
Football suffers ?rst loss of the season at Wabash
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
Sophomore mechanical engineering major 
Christian Heaney-Secord, who is well over six 
feet tall, is known to the Carnegie Mellon tennis team as Big Chris.
However, Heaney-Secord didnt enter Carnegie Mellon the year after he graduated high 
school. Instead, he took a year off to follow his 
14-year-long passion for tennis and trained at 
home in Westwood, Mass.
During his gap year, Heaney-Secord also 
took two calculus courses to stay on top of his 
academics.
But being on a team again allowed him to 
develop a dynamic with his Tartan teammates. 
Its one of the exciting parts about playing 
college sports, competing with teams against 
other schools, Heaney-Secord said. Its a way 
that I can express my passion for the game in a 
competitive environment.
So far, Heaney-Secords proudest moment 
came from his match against No. 5 in the country, North Carolina Wesleyan College. The 
match was tied at 44, and I won my match in 
three sets to clinch the victory for the Tartans, 
he said.
Heaney-Secords passion for tennis has not 
gone unnoticed by his teammates either. Big 
Chris always strives to do the right thing by 
putting in the hours of practice, holding himself to a high standard, and offering to help 
someone in need, whether it be a stranger or 
a friend. Anyone would be frickin stoked to 
have Chris as a teammate, sophomore Bryce 
Beisswanger said.
Speci?cally, Heaney-Secord is looking to 
the teams ?rst-years to be key contributors. 
I think the freshmen are an amazing group of 
people; each different personality adds something to our team dynamic, he said.
Heaney-Secord was too humble to set 
personal goals for this season, but he set the 
teams overall goal high. I want to win a D-III 
National Championship as a team, he said.
Assistant tennis coach Mike Belmonte, 
however, has set some speci?c goals for him. 
Christian came back for his sophomore season looking very sharp. He spent a lot of time 
over the summer improving certain areas of 
his game, and I can already see that he is much 
improved from last year. He has continued to 
work hard so far this season, bringing a great 
attitude and good energy to every practice. We 
expect big things from him this year, and I am 
con?dent that he is up for the challenge, Belmonte said.
Senior Jooho Yu agreed, saying, I have a 
ton of respect for Big Chris as a player, teammate, and person. Its clear that he worked 
very hard on his game over the summer and 
the entire team is expecting huge things from 
him this year.
Off the court, Heaney-Secord works hard 
on his academics. My favorite class was my 
engineering class where we made submarines 
out of plastic and a bridge that our teacher 
walked across out of cardboard, he said.
After graduating, he hopes to get an engineering job in Hawaii so he can live near one of 
his teammates, ?rst-year Paul Okuda.
ATHLETE PROFILEChristian Heaney-Secord strives for excellence on court
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Christian Heaney-Secord started his fall season this weekend at the Southeast Regional Championships.
Volleyball defeats Waynesburg University 31 at home
Kate Groschner/Staff Photographer
Junior setter Emily Wright (No. 6) had three digs and four kills against Waynesburg University.
Kelsey Scott/Junior Photographer
The Tartans will return to a full week of practice before they face Denison University, which has a 22 record so far this season.

---------------------------------------------------

AECW
LRRL
GLYA
Thirty Flights of Loving
The recent video game perfects 
narrative game style  B6
10.01.12 Volume 107, Issue 6

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
The adventures of Stick Cats continue in this 
weeks comics. 
11
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about the upcoming VIA 
Music and New Media Festival.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Samantha Ward
9
46710
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about strippers 
and going out.
3
...diversions
...this week onlyHot dogs
Tour the Pittsburgh hot dog scene with 
commentary on which hotspots most impress.
3
Album reviews
Mumford & Sons and Flying Lotus release very 
different, but similarly impressive albums.
4
PSO
Matthew Morrison of Glee charms audiences 
with a charismatic and theatrical performance.
5
Thirty Flights
The new indie video game breaks barriers and 
provides an excellent game narrative.
6
Perks review
The newly released film adaptation will not 
disappoint fans of the original book.
7
Art exhibit
New exhibit White Cube, Green Maze gives the 
traditional museum a refreshing vibe.
8
Gallery Crawl
The Cultural District amazes viewers with a 
vibrant array of galleries and exhibitions.
Did You Know?
Did you know that many of the issues with 
todays meal plans also existed 10 years ago?
10
Puzzles
Test your skills and abilities this week with a 
very hard Sudoku and easy Kakuro Puzzle.
13
Horoscopes
Conflicting messages or words of hope? Try to 
make sense of whats written in the stars. 
14
Calendar
Check out this weeks calendar for events 
happening on and off campus.
15
Breakdown
Carnegie Mellon sophomores start a promising 
new music magazine.
10
9

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 10.01.123
Best hot dogs in Pittsburgh
BRGR and Joes Hot Dog Stand stand out above the rest
Hot dogs: The food of choice for baseball games, 
backyard barbecues, and drunk college meals 
across America. One bite into a tasty hot dog recalls 
memories of home and comfort away from angry 
professors and annoying obligations. Such comforts 
are not readily available through on-campus dining 
 and even when they are, they leave one feeling 
empty in both wallet and stomach. Here we lay out a 
number of locally available hot dogs from the fancy to 
the plain, from costly to cheap.
BRGR
BRGRs approach to burgers involves fresh, local 
ingredients and inventive, gourmet condiment 
combinations, so it shouldnt be a surprise to hear 
that its approach to hot dogs is the same. BRGR, 
located in East Liberty at 5997 Penn Circle South, 
has two hot dogs to choose from on its menu: the 
Triple Delight Dog ($8) and Smiths Local Hot Dog 
($5). The former takes an Asian fusion approach to 
the hot dog, with Asian slaw, pickled cucumbers, 
jalapeos, toasted sesame seeds, wasabi aioli, and 
furikake (a Japanese condiment containing dried 
fish and seaweed) piled on top of a beef hot dog. 
The Smiths Local Hot Dog doesnt come with such 
toppings, but for $2 more, we added guacamole, hot 
mayo, and bits of bacon.
The hot dogs were surprisingly large  they were 
nearly twice the diameter of all the other hot dogs we 
tested  and, as one might expect from a qualitydriven restaurant, delicious.
On first bite, the Triple Delight was overwhelmingly 
spicy, with a lasting, distinctive flavor. While it was 
an interesting take on a hot dog, the toppings tend 
to overwhelm, rather than complement, the hot dogs 
flavor. On the other hand, the Smiths Local Hot Dog 
blended well with the guacamole and bacon. The 
buttery smoothness of the guacamole served as a 
nice juxtaposition to the crunch and saltiness of the 
bacon.
The Original Hot Dog Shop (the O)
For a place that claims to be the original hot dog 
shop, the O is certainly lacking in quality dogs. The 
hot dog ($4.50 with cheese) was extremely bland, 
with a thick casing thanks to the hours it likely 
spent sitting idle on the grill. The O probably tastes 
delicious at 1 a.m. when youre drunk and youve 
walked all the way from campus, but otherwise, go 
for a six pack instead.
Five Guys
At Five Guys, we purchased a bacon cheese hot dog 
at $5.19. While simple, it had all the necessary traits 
of a delicious hot dog. At first bite, one can easily 
notice the grilled flavor and feel the calorically-rich 
goodness as the various condiments blend together 
with the hot dogs natural greasiness. Five Guys 
offers a number of choices for hot dogs, providing 
variety as well as quality.
Smallman Street Deli
Smallman Street Deli offers its jumbo hot dog 
($3.99 with toppings) grilled and with a number of 
condiments  we chose relish, onions, and mustard. 
Despite its moniker, the hot dog was about the 
same size as the rest of the dogs we tried elsewhere. 
However, it was nicely grilled, adding extra flavor.
Joes Hot Dog Stand
If youre looking for a quick, cheap lunch, this hot 
dog stand located outside Posner Hall is the place 
to go. All-beef hot dogs are available for $2.75; you 
can add relish, ketchup, mustard, and onion for 
free, and more toppings like tomato and lettuce are 
available for an extra charge. Although the hot dog 
tasted under-grilled, the quality of the meat was 
surprisingly good, especially considering the low 
price.
Our top choice
BRGR had the tastiest dog, but when it comes to 
value, nothing beats the stand outside Posner. Its 
inexpensive, good quality, and conveniently right 
on campus, and when you get a craving for comfort 
food, those characteristics tend to trump all else.
Anna Walsh | Personnel Manager
Xuexia Jiang | Junior Staffwriter
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
I went to the Cricket 
Lounge last week, and I 
fell in love with a stripper. 
Her name is Chastity and 
she seems really into me. 
She stopped talking to me 
once I ran out of money, 
but shes on the job, 
right? Do you know how I 
can convert this business 
relationship into a more 
romantic one?
Thanks,
Seriously Tempted 
Reclusive Individual, 
Powerfully Tempted 
Endlessly, And Seeking 
Exotic Dancer
Dear STRIPTEASED,
Repeat thrice, after me: I 
do not love a stripper. Okay, 
if that didnt do the trick, I 
guess Ill have to explain this 
to you. In general, anyone 
who works for tips is just 
pretending to like you. 
Waitresses, hostesses, and 
especially strippers. I know, 
youre really charming, but 
nine times out of 10, theyre 
just acting.
If youre still set on chasing 
Chastity, then I guess Im 
obliged to give you advice. 
First things first: Get a 
hepatitis shot. Types A 
and B. Next, you need to 
demonstrate your value to 
her. Break out the $100 
bills at the club. Keep on 
throwing down the money 
until you get a reputation 
with her. Then take a good 
long hard look at yourself 
and realize youre trying to 
pick up a stripper.
At least your kids will 
have a great story about 
how you met their mother,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Ive gone out almost every 
day the past few weeks, 
and now Im totally 
exhausted. But my friends 
want to keep going out 
and I dont have the heart 
to turn them down. I cant 
afford to keep this up. 
How can I break the news 
to them? Cant I just stay 
home and sleep?
Thanks,
Beverage Obtainment 
Oftentimes Zeroes 
Earnings, Sleep 
Necessary Or Obviously 
Zoned out Entirely
Dear BOOZE SNOOZE,
Let me guess, youre a 
senior. Bar exhaustion is a 
common problem among 
those graduating soon. 
Eventually, the drinking 
and spending catches up 
with you and you just want 
to stay in and play board 
games. Weve all been there, 
but you must resist. Down 
the path of board games 
lies only destruction! Stay 
strong; keep drinking!
Take a night or two off, but 
thats it. Once you start 
staying in, its easy to get 
stuck in a rut. And then youll 
waste your senior year. You 
just turned 21, and youre 
at the one time in your life 
you can go out five nights a 
week and not be judged for 
it. Get on a first-name basis 
with the Wednesday night 
bartender at PHI (its Deirdre) 
and manage your money so 
you can keep it up.
Take a nap and go out,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About strippers and going out
If youre looking for an inexpensive, but good 
quality hot dog, try Joes Hot Dog Stand outside of 
Posner Hall on campus.
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

4music
pillbox 10.01.12
Mumford & Sons brillant second album, Babel, was 
released last week. The album doesnt go anywhere 
adventurous or new  it stays in the same alternative 
rock/folk genre as Sigh No More, the bands ?rst album; 
still has Country Winston Marshall rocking the banjo; 
and still has Marcus Mumford growling and shouting out 
the groups ballad-like lyrics.
The real difference between the two albums is the 
maturity of the music. Babel has more complex and 
layered instrumentals, and uses group vocals more 
effectively than Sigh No More. While both albums are 
fantastic, the bands newest release shows off a cleaner, 
more organized sound.
Babel was written by young men, and although it can 
be enjoyed by people of all ages, it is an album about 
the issues in young peoples lives. Mumford & Sons sing 
about uncertainty and regret, love and longing. Its the 
perfect album for young adults struggling to ?nd their 
place in the world  in short, its written for college kids.
In the albums ?rst song, the title track Babel, 
Mumford sings,  Cause I know my weakness, know 
my voice / And Ill believe in grace and choice. The 
song sets the tone and theme of the album: Its all about 
understanding your own weaknesses and learning your 
voice. These ideas are essential during college and in 
the early stages of life, and, as the album acknowledges, 
there are no certainties in that journey.
Throughout the track, Mumford sings about the process 
of changing your core beliefs in young adulthood  a 
process that can strip us of our illusions and disguises. 
While this process can be unpleasant, Mumford reminds 
us that at least well come out more honest on the other 
side.
Babel is not the only song with such complexity. True 
to Mumford & Sons form, each song is richly textured 
with emotion and meaning, along with some impressive 
banjo playing. Ghosts That We Knew toys with 
togetherness in the face of sadness, while Lovers Eyes 
describes the poignant regret of relationships after the 
love dries up. Broken Crown also focuses on regret, but 
of a much angrier nature  regret mixed with rage over 
past mistakes.
A trademark technique of Mumford & Sons is the 
juxtaposition of poignant, or perhaps nostalgic, lyrics 
and high-energy instrumentals. This technique appears 
in many of Babels songs. The contrast is jarring, but in a 
good way: It generates toe-tapping, catchy music with a 
subtler meaning underneath.
Touching on a wide range of emotions, from joy and 
triumph to sorrow, rage, and heartbreak, Babel is a 
phenomenal album. It proves not only that Mumford 
& Sons are still going strong, but also that the band is 
getting better all the time.
Chloe Thompson | Junior Staffwriter
Babel not a whisper in the dark, but a shout
Mumford & Sons releases emotional, complex second album
Flylo releases introspective, intimate album
Electronic artist creates more accessible sound, smooths out edges
Until the Quiet Comes, Steve Ellisons (a.k.a Flying 
Lotus) latest masterpiece, brings to a head everything 
hes been working toward since creating the Brainfeeder 
music label in 2008. From his synthesis of Los Angeles 
electronic music, he has crafted his own voice  and it 
is boundless, ageless, and undeniably beautiful.
His previous LP, Cosmogramma  the new albums 
more capricious older brother  was my ?rst taste 
of Flying Lotus. And like most of my favorite artists, 
Flying Lotus was introduced to me by Max Tamahawk 
Tamahori, an aspiring DJ and one of my closest friends 
from back home in Los Angeles.
Flylo is unlike anything youve ever heard before, man, 
he told me in 2010, the night after he had seen the 
electronic artist do a set alongside two of Brainfeeders 
main men, Daedalus and The Gaslamp Killer. Really, 
all of Brainfeeders DJs are like the modern Beats of Los 
Angeles  and Flylos their Kerouac.
That statement has never been truer than with Until 
the Quiet Comes. While in the anti-album style 
of Cosmogramma  in the sense that the tracks 
arent individual but part of a collective  its more 
introspective and intimate than Flylos previous releases.
The album also has an absurdly huge color palette, 
blending sounds expertly and seamlessly between 
tracks. One minute youre ?ying high on a smooth jazz 
session in Only If You Wanna, and the next youre on a 
drug relapse during the compact drones and desperate 
crooning of Flylos frequent collaborator Thom Yorke 
in Electric Candyman  which should de?nitely be 
Yorkes new nickname.
Radiohead mastermind aside, Flylo collaborates with 
more artists on Until the Quiet Comes than ever before. 
Along with previous accomplices Yorke and Thundercat 
 another member of Brainfeeder  this album has 
the unknown Niki Randa stepping into the spotlight 
in Getting There and Hunger, as well as big-name 
Erykah Badu on See Thru To U. And Laura Darlington, 
Daedalus wife, drops in to sing on Phantasm, which 
might be tied with The Nightcaller for best track on the 
album.
Until the Quiet Comes is also a standout for its focus 
on composition  and complex composition, at that. 
The album is an electronic tone poem, with Flylos 
prowess as the base text and certain combinations 
of instrumentation and melodies recurring as motifs. 
Theres a theme in Only If You Wanna  one that 
brie?y shows up earlier in Tiny Tortures  that even 
harkens back to Cosmogrammas hit track Mmmhmm.
Even with the albums complexities and artistry, Flylo 
never neglects humor. Sultans Request, for example, 
is a deconstruction of what most consider dubstep  a 
slow, dense bass line without any beat, coming off as 
comical and slightly disconcerting. And the listener 
cant help but laugh at the brief, punctuated whoop in 
the last second of Heave(n).
With Until the Quiet Comes, Flylo has not only created 
one of the best electronic albums in recent history, 
but has also made his own sound more accessible by 
smoothing out its edges. I know Ill be spending my brief 
moments of relaxation listening to this album on repeat 
for the next month or two. Anyone with the slightest 
interest in exploring the boundaries of electronic music 
should take an hour to kick back, relax, and listen to the 
soundtrack of Los Angeles.
Evan Kahn | Copy Manager
Until the Quiet Comes comes out tomorrow.

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 10.01.125
Paperhouse
On VIA
If you havent left campus recently and arent Facebook 
friends with any of the coolest people in Pittsburgh, you 
might not be aware that VIA is happening this week.
VIA? What the hell is that? you may ask. Allow me to 
explain. Back in 2010, a couple of Pittsburgh friends 
decided that it was time for the city to have its own 
cutting-edge music and new media arts festival. Since 
then, VIA has presented collaborative performances, 
installations, mobile projects, lectures, and workshops 
through a yearly festival, as well as sporadic events 
throughout the year.
While you may be familiar with Electric Zoo, Movement, 
Mutek, Coachella, or some other big-name music festival, 
VIA is a little more unique. According to the VIA website, 
this event focuses on enabling Pittsburgh as a nexus for 
young artists working at the borders of music, art, and 
technology. This years festival brings a variety of artists 
you may not have heard of, such as Moodymann, Tiger & 
Woods, Nadastrom, Girl Unit, Julia Holter, and Andy Stott, 
to name a few. Even your esteemed author isnt familiar 
with every band in attendance.
What I can tell you is this: If youre truly interested in the 
intersection of sight and sound and like to get your groove 
on, VIA is the place to be. VIA has already gained all sorts 
of international acclaim and press for its festivals in the 
past, and has secured the top spot for a U.S. festival on 
Resident Advisors Top October Festivals list.
This is not an advertisement for VIA; rather, it is an 
unsolicited endorsement from your campus radio station. 
Like any festival, there are mistakes as a result of too much 
experimentation or poor foresight, but it looks like VIA 
has learned a lot from its two ?rst years and has planned 
a wide variety of music. Get ready for some deep house, 
bedroom pop, cold wave, Moombahton, dub techno, UK 
Bass, nu disco, and so much more.
 
Alex Price | Special to The Tartan
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
Eric Copeland  Limbo
The Temper Trap  The Temper Trap
Shintaro Sakamoto  How to Live With a Phantom
Peaking Lights  Lucifer
Matthew Dear  Beams
Steve Lacy  The Sun
King Tuff  King Tuff
Various Artists  Further Explorations
Antibalas  Antibalas
Animal Collective  Centipede Hz
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Glee star performs with PSO
Matthew Morrison puts on invigorating show
Sporting a pair of suspenders, colorful dance moves, 
and his signature chin butt, as Sue Sylvester calls 
it, Glees Matthew Morrison took the stage of Heinz 
Hall on Saturday with the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra as part of the PNC Pops series.
This was the ?rst Pops concert of the season, as well 
as the ?rst without the late Principal Pops Conductor 
Marvin Hamlisch. The memory of Hamlisch sobered 
the otherwise gaiety-?lled concert, but conductor 
Lucas Richman handled the somber moments well, 
keeping them poignant but brief: He conducted a 
beautiful piece Marvin style, and kept a spotlight 
on an empty podium.
Before Morrison took the stage, the orchestra 
presented a lively, charming ?rst half, plunging into 
Broadway with the overture from Pretty Girl. Perky 
and fun, the piece soared and swelled, engaging 
even the audience members who hadnt seen the 
movie.
The second piece, a compilation of romantic 
cinema songs called Romancing the Cinema: Great 
Love Songs from the Movies, was put together 
by Richman. As the highlight of the concert, the 
compilation featured My Heart Will Go On from 
Titanic and Can You Feel the Love Tonight from 
The Lion King, among others. The orchestra outdid 
itself with this piece, with personal touches from 
a percussion section that could only be called 
perfection on drums and a strings section that set 
souls alight.
Morrison was accompanied by composer Brad 
Ellis, playing the piano just as he does as the silent 
accompanist in Glee. Morrison whirled through 
Broadway favorites and quintessential classics from 
the jazz songbook, ranging from Lady is a Tramp 
from Babes in Arms to a medley from Bernstein and 
Sondheims West Side Story to the adaptation of the 
famous Mexican mambo, Sway.
Morrisons theatricality was a key part of his 
performance, both while he was singing and 
vamping between pieces. He showed off his 
signature dance moves, at one point dropping down 
and breakdancing  yes, breakdancing in Heinz 
Hall  and descending from the stage to make a 
young girls day by sweeping her into a short dance 
in the aisle.
The small talk he presented for ?ller between songs 
was cheesy at best, especially the clearly scripted 
exchanges with the pianist. That said, the man is a 
singer, not a stand-up comic, and the older audience 
ate it up. He appeared to be in character the entire 
performance. Although his voice was lovely  
as always  and his feet were hypnotizing, his 
performance felt forced and canned.
The accompaniment was perfect down to the last 
note, providing exactly the kind of support that every 
singer should get. The music seamlessly blended 
with Morrisons voice and provided a wonderful 
backdrop for a tour through musical theater history. 
Richman and the orchestra outdid themselves with 
this performance, especially in the ?rst half.
Morrison was a charismatic, if unoriginal, performer 
with an incredible amount of vocal power. 
Invigorating and interesting, the concert left nothing 
to be desired from the incredible orchestra and 
conductor, and satis?ed the Broadway cravings of a 
fall afternoon.
Laura Scherb | Junior Staffwriter
Courtesy of Kristin Dos Santos via Flickr
Matthew Morrison, who plays Will Schuester on 
the hit television show Glee, performed with the 
PSO last Saturday and Sunday.

---------------------------------------------------

6gaming
pillbox 10.01.12
I wish this didnt have to end.
This is the overwhelming response from people whove 
played Thirty Flights of Loving, the latest video game 
from indie developer Blendo Games, released over the 
summer. The game is a narrative-driven, ?rst-person 
shooter inhabited by blocky, stylized paper-craft humans. 
Its one of the most important games released this year, 
expressing more in 15 minutes than most games do in 40 
hours of play.
This is a short story in playable form, displaying a 
keen awareness of the idiosyncrasies of games as a 
storytelling medium. Its the story of a heist gone wrong 
and the events that led up to it, all told without the use of 
dialogue. Half the game takes place in an airport youre 
trying to escape, while the other half is spent simply 
hanging out with your bootlegger friends.
Whats most remarkable about the games story is its use 
of jump cuts. The characters will often be ejected from 
whatever theyre doing  like walking down a hallway 
 as the game suddenly cuts to a scene of them getting 
out of bed. A testament to Blendos mastery, these cuts 
dont feel intrusive. Instead, they are entirely welcomed, 
a breath of fresh air in a world of hyper-linear structure.
Do not be fooled by the style of the art; the games world 
is an extremely expressive one. People and objects are 
bright and colorful, visually distinctive when necessary 
and indiscernible when not. The music  composed 
by indie game composer and writer Chris Remo  is 
sparse and varied, borrowing elements from spy movies 
and Westerns. The soundtrack features a scratchiness 
that makes it sound like the soundtrack to a 1960s drama 
recorded on vinyl.
In essence, its a condensed movie soundtrack; some 
snippets only play for moments and then are never heard 
again. Silence is used often, letting players make their 
own interpretations of the emotions in certain scenes. 
Text is scattered throughout the game, giving players 
brief insights into the absurd world from which theyre 
trying to escape. All of this combines to give the game 
an inimitable feel and a sense of weight and con?dence 
in its own style.
Thirty Flights is in many ways meant to serve as 
the ideal of the player-centric game. The player is 
respected, never condescended to, never forced to 
listen to some nonplayable character drone on about 
irrelevant information. The game doesnt concern itself 
with the tangential details, as they are ultimately only a 
distraction from the true meat of the story. Theres a kind 
of cognizance in the way the game is presented  the 
way it knows exactly how much it needs to tell players, 
yet keeps enough ambiguity for players to draw their 
own conclusions.
Each player walks away from Thirty Flights with a 
different understanding of the underlying narrative 
because the game so brilliantly condenses the story 
down to its most basic elements. Cut away the ?uff 
found in other games  the pointless dialogue and the 
time-wasting game systems that do nothing for the 
players enjoyment  and youre left with the essence of 
a story.
In the current world of game narrative, it seems like 
theres this headlong rush to have the greatest impact 
on players by making them the center of the universe. 
Every game seems to tout that players will have this epic 
presence in the world, that their choices will reverberate 
throughout the games universe. These are almost 
always empty promises, and end up as a hollow power 
fantasy masquerading as something more important.
Thirty Flights is the opposite: a small, intimate game 
that has something to say and isnt afraid to do what 
needs to be done  even at the risk of alienating 
players. This kind of game only comes along once every 
few years, and is one of the few that might one day be 
spoken of in the same reverent tone as Half-Life 2.
Mark Slabinski | Junior Staffwriter
Thirty Flights perfects narrative-based game
New indie video game brilliantly condenses story to essential form
Screenshot courtesy of Mark Slabinski
Thirty Flights of Loving strikes the perfect balance between directing players and leaving them to draw their own 
conclusions. 
Despite the questionable art, the world of Thirty 
Flights is expressive and visually distinctive.
Screenshot courtesy of Mark Slabinski

---------------------------------------------------

film
pillbox 10.01.127
While it has become common practice for books to be 
adapted into ?lms, fans of the books are rarely happy 
about some aspect of the resulting movie, whether its 
a casting decision, a change in the plot, or an omitted 
scene. However, fans of Stephen Chboskys book, The 
Perks of Being a Wall?ower, will ?nd little to complain 
about in the ?lm adaptation.
The book, originally published in 1999 by MTV, consists 
of letters that high school student Charlie (played by 
Logan Lerman) writes to an anonymous stranger relaying 
details of his ?rst year of high school. He begins the year 
friendless, as his best friend Michael committed suicide 
several months earlier, but soon befriends a group of 
seniors that take him under their wing. Throughout 
the year, he experiments with drugs and falls for his 
beautiful friend Sam (Emma Watson), all the while 
struggling with traumas from his past.
In many ways, the coming-of-age novel feels like 
a modern-day version of The Catcher in the Rye: 
beautifully written, but often with heavy-handed 
amounts of teenage angst. Its the sort of book that 
speaks profoundly to you at age 13, but feels far less 
relevant post-pubescence.
While the movie still has plenty of high school drama, it 
is more relatable than cringe-worthy, due in large part to 
the quality of the acting. Although Charlie is a quiet kid 
who could have easily come across as a ?at character, 
Lerman brings out the nuances of his personality. 
Watson shines as the boisterous but caring Sam, proving 
that she is capable of branching out beyond the Harry 
Potter franchise. Ezra Miller is similarly compelling as 
Sams gay stepbrother Patrick, whose sass and sarcastic 
pep hide his vulnerability.
The movies cinematography helps to capture 
the dreamy, poetic feel of the novel. While by no 
means boundary-breaking or Oscar-worthy, the ?lm 
contains some interesting camera angles and ?lming 
decisions, especially whenever Charlie is on drugs. 
The cinematographic choices for the climactic scene 
near the end of the ?lm give the audience insight into 
Charlies mental state at the time and help to heighten 
the drama.
For Pittsburgh residents, the ?lms location is an added 
bonus. Chbosky is a Pittsburgh native and set Perks in 
his hometown suburb, so it was only natural that, as the 
writer and director of the ?lm adaptation, he would have 
?lmed it in Pittsburgh. The stunning scene in which 
Sam stands on the back of a truck while riding through 
a tunnel will win over audience members anywhere, 
but it will strike a particular chord with Pittsburghers 
as they recognize the Fort Pitt Tunnel and the shots of 
Downtown.
Perks may be a movie about high school, but not only 
high schoolers will appreciate it. It captures all the 
feelings and horrors and joys of being 16, but does it in 
such a way that will invite older audiences in, rather 
than drive them away. As Charlie says at the end of the 
?lm, There are people who forget what its like to be 
16 when they turn 17. I know these will all be stories 
someday... But right now these moments are not stories. 
The Perks of Being a Wall?ower brings those stories back 
to life.
Anna Walsh | Personnel Manager
Perks brings adolescent stories back to life
Film adaptation of Stephen Chbosky novel will not disappoint devoted fans
Courtesy of perks-of-being-a-wall?ower.com
The Perks of Being a Wallflower follows the relationship between high school freshman Charlie (Logan Lerman, 
right) and his newfound friend and crush Sam (Emma Watson, left).
Courtesy of perks-of-being-a-wall?ower.com
High school freshman Charlies prospects improve 
when two seniors take him under their wing.

---------------------------------------------------

8art
pillbox 10.01.12
With an atmosphere permeated by the scent of incense 
and a recording of children laughing to set the scene, 
the new Carnegie Museum of Art exhibit White Cube, 
Green Maze: New Art Landscapes kicks off with an 
engaging vibe. The exhibition, which opened Sept. 21 in 
the Heinz Gallery, takes museum-goers on a trip around 
the globe to investigate six cases of art fusing with the 
environment to create something new. White Cube, 
Green Maze: New Art Landscapes explores a new-age 
spin on the often traditional Carnegie Museum of Art.
The exhibit is designed around the photographs of Iwan 
Baan, a Dutch architecture photographer. Baan traveled 
to the Instituto Inhotim in Brazil, the Benesse Art Site 
Naoshima in Japan, the Stiftung Insel Hombroich in 
Germany, the Jardn Botnico de Culiacn in Mexico, 
the Grand Traiano Art Complex in Italy, and the Olympic 
Sculpture Garden in the U.S. to create his pieces.
All of the locations feature innovative methods of 
melding contemporary art with landscapes  be it 
with a mountain range, garden, or city  and all are 
fascinating to explore. The positively breathtaking 
photographs are bursting with vibrant color that brings 
true life to the exhibit, and the scale models that 
accompany the building plans of the various structures 
allow viewers to feel completely immersed in the art.
The addition of humans into the photos is a poetic touch. 
Humans are subtly incorporated into the landscapes and 
art spaces to suggest a hopeful future and the possibility 
of a peaceful, beautiful coexistence of humanity, art, and 
the environment. Eye-opening and thought-provoking, 
the photographs present a unique, visually pleasing 
aspect of contemporary art that is often lost in the 
shuf?e.
Although the simplistic beauty of the photographed 
locations is generally overshadowed in the exhibition, 
this aspect is brought out most in photos of Stiftung 
Insel Hombrioch in Germany. The location includes 
a former rocket base that has been transformed into 
a home for contemporary art. The repurposing of this 
location is a metaphor for the survival and continuation 
of art in harmony with science and technology.
Unfortunately, the complicated nature of the building 
plans and the vast amount of information that covers 
every wall makes this exhibit almost too overwhelming 
to take in. The theme of contemporary art in 
international landscapes is clear throughout the gallery, 
but the details are lost in the ?ood of technical drawings 
and wordy captions. The exhibit displays too much 
information and not enough thematic material.
Despite this, the exhibit would be of interest to 
any student majoring in architecture, design, or 
environmental engineering. And for everybody else, 
the pictures and bright colors are reason enough for a 
visit  after all, admission is free for Carnegie Mellon 
students.
Laura Scherb | Junior Staffwriter
Exhibit features architecture photography
White Cube, Green Maze ?oods viewers with vibrant, eye-opening images
The exhibit, which runs through Jan. 13, features 
photographs by Iwan Baan, including this aerial 
view of the Benessee House Museum and Oval in 
Naoshima, Japan.
Courtesy of cmoa.org

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 10.01.129
Samantha Ward | Junior Photographer
Swarms of yinzers, hipsters, families, and students 
converged on Pittsburghs Cultural District on Friday 
to experience this seasons Gallery Crawl, an event 
that showcases Downtown. Visitors are allowed free 
admission to over 30 art and entertainment venues 
around Liberty and Penn Avenues.
The Wood Street Galleries, located at 601 Wood St., 
displayed work by a number of authors who focus on 
experimental poetry, ?ction, history, and geography. The 
exhibition  titled The City & The City: Artwork by 
London Writers  explored new ways of combining art 
and writing in examination of the modern city. Guests 
were welcomed inside with the deep hum of vibrating 
tribal music.
A set of velvet curtains were pushed aside to reveal a 
room covered in four separate projections of slow city 
scenes. Flying Down to Rio by artists Chris Petit, 
Emma Matthews, and Iain Sinclair presented a vague 
and uneasy view of city streets. Viewers dark shadows 
were forced into the projections, propelling them into the 
imaginary, time-warped space.
Sight Unseen by artist Rachel Lichtenstein displayed 
precious Old World jewelry, bottles, and treasures 
in dimly lit display cases. Viewers had to wait in a 
small line to get a closer look at the delicate items. 
Lichtensteins display corresponds with the launch of 
her new non?ction book Diamond Street: The Hidden 
World of Hatton Garden. Hatton Garden is Londons 
secretive diamond and jewelry quarter, home to a private 
community of craftsmen.
Their experiences and memories piece together the 
fragments of Sight Unseen. Lichtenstein commented 
that she wanted a slightly Victorian era feeling to it, and 
an out of time, mystical sense to it.
Down the street in the SPACE Gallery at 812 Liberty 
Ave., crawlers were greeted with a more modern, 
interactive take on art in an exhibit titled Circles of 
Commotion and Moving Pauses. A huge, seemingly 
paint-covered boat  beautiful, blue, and mysterious 
 stood in front of viewers. A strange maze of video 
projections and almost translucent mirrors confused 
onlookers as they struggled to make sense of the path 
and the artwork.
Its actually a really cool experience, said sophomore 
Chris Skaggs, a double major in decision science and 
philosophy, as he made his way through. But I imagine 
this is what its like to trip acid and have it not go well.
A DJ set up by the front windows of SPACE added loud, 
pounding sounds. The noise, which at ?rst contributed 
to the strange, futuristic nature of the show eventually 
became an annoyance that drove people out of the room. 
Stepping back outside into the night air was a sensory 
relief.
Perhaps the most welcoming portion of the Gallery Crawl 
was found in the small food and art booths set up in cozy 
nooks between buildings. Smoke from the small BRGR 
stand wafted into the night sky, illuminated by strings of 
lights. Crowds of people meandered around in the cool 
night air, surrounded by the Downtown skyline.
Further down Liberty Avenue, smaller galleries 
welcomed visitors. Recent Carnegie Mellon alum 
Martin Swift (BFA 12) displayed work at Currency, 937 
Liberty Ave., with a group of other young artists. His 
three paintings  titled Oscar, Luca, and Tyler 
 towered over visitors. The scene at Currency was 
more lighthearted and less crowded than the more 
professional scene at Wood Street Galleries.
Other notable artworks displayed were a series of 
metallic, textured panels and an axe sticking out of the 
wall slowly burning incense. This might be my favorite 
gallery, said Nicole Anderson, a sophomore Bachelor of 
Humanities and Arts student. It feels familiar, like CMU. 
I could see this in the Miller Gallery.
A perfect end to the night for crawlers was ?nding the 
Cell Phone Disco, a huge screen in an alleyway that 
visualized the electromagnetic ?eld of a cell phone. The 
installation art piece featured thousands of small ligwhts 
illuminated when someone near it made or received a 
phone call.
Pittsburgh welcomed new and old visitors to the rich 
arts and culture scene in Downtown. The Gallery Crawl 
only happens four times a year, so mark your calendar for 
the next time it comes around.
Samantha Ward | Staffwriter
Gallery Crawl offers free cultural experience
The Cultural District amazes viewers with a vibrant night of engaging exhibitions
During last Fridays Gallery Crawl, various galleries showcased thought-provoking artwork, including an axe stuck 
in a wall burning incense (left) and a futuristic multimedia installation (right).

---------------------------------------------------

10community
pillbox 10.01.12
Pittsburghs newest music magazine, Breakdown 
Music Press, released its ?rst issue last month. Its 
co-founders  Sandra Chen and Natalie Campbell, 
sophomore computer science and design majors, 
respectively  have high hopes about the future of 
Breakdown and believe that their unique approach 
will separate it from the sea of blogs, websites, and 
other magazines that cover music.
The magazine doesnt cover a speci?c genre of 
music, although Chen noted that they want to 
feature local music and focus on the modest side 
of the music industry. But Breakdown does more 
than just review local music. It contains a multitude 
of interviews with upcoming artists, accompanied 
by vivid photos. Elaborate album reviews and 
photographs from different music festivals include 
more popular, mainstream music.
Chen ?rst approached Campbell with the hope of 
making something out of the numerous concert 
photographs she had been taking since she was 
a ?rst-year. I started taking photos for myself and 
didnt really know what to do with them, Chen 
said. I really enjoyed going to concerts and was 
fascinated by the artists energy. I wanted to share 
that with people.
Chen and Campbell have been working with other 
students from Carnegie Mellon as well as friends 
from around the country: Their current staff consists 
of eight people. Although working independently 
from Carnegie Mellon has made their job harder, 
Chen and Campbell enjoy that they can do more of 
the work and be more in control.
Looking at the ?rst cover of Breakdown, you can 
tell that this magazine is out to accomplish more 
than good music reviews. Chen, who is also head of 
photography for the magazine, catches a piercing 
look in Tyler Josephs eye, lead singer of Twenty One 
Pilots, while bandmate Josh Dun thoughtfully stares 
toward a distant point. The photo captures the 
kind of connection that Breakdown is out to create 
between its artists and readers. The two students 
want to focus on a more human aspect of artists, 
not just commercial, as Chen said. We want the 
magazine to be intimate.
The magazine is both accessible and intimate 
as readers ?ip through its pages. One can feel 
Chen and Campbells passion and energy in their 
heartfelt letters to the readers  which describe the 
guys of Twenty One Pilots as the most talented, 
hardworking and genuine boys I know  and in the 
sharp, sweaty, and very real photos of artists like Of 
Mice and Men and Blood on the Dance Floor, taken 
at last summers Vans Warped Tour.
One of the most distinguishing aspects of 
Breakdown lies not in what it can give its readers, 
but rather in what it lets its readers give in return. 
Chens Warped Tour photos are sprinkled with words 
not from artists, but from the audience. Written 
across one photo of rock band The Used, Amber 
from Pittsburgh says, Watching my friend Tonya 
almost have a heart attack when we were up front 
for The Used. While the audiences words might 
not be relevant to the booming music industry of the 
21st century, they touch the reader and provide a 
different perspective than other magazines offer.
Dreams  if you work enough you can reach 
them, Chen said. This is something I want our 
readers to know.
Maybe dreams are what will make Breakdown 
stand out from other music magazines, acting as a 
medium for readers to access dreams of their own 
and letting the music industry seem closer than 
before.
Su Baykal | Junior Staffwriter
For more information on Breakdown, visit 
breakdownmusicpress.com.
Students create music magazine
Breakdown features fresh approach to music writing
Sophomores Sandra Chen (left, computer science 
major) and Natalie Campbell (right, design major) 
published their first issue in September.
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Oct. 24, 1912
Over 500 people attend the Carnegie 
Tech away football game against 
Washington & Jefferson University over 
the weekend. At half-time, fans storm 
the field and form a giant C while 
cheering for the team. Today, we cant 
even get 500 people to a home game 
offering free food.
50years ago
Oct. 17, 1962
A new program from the music 
department supports classes for 
elementary through high school 
students. At nine years old, Emma Lou 
Pryor is the first scholarship recipient 
in the preparatory division for piano 
performance. She will take individual 
lessons, as well as classes in theory 
and voice with other participants.
25years ago
Sept. 29, 1987
A student criticizes the lack of 
response to sexual assaults around 
campus in a fictional interaction 
between a police officer and brutally 
attacked student. The authors closing 
advice is, Lock your doors and 
windows and hide under your bed.
10years ago
Sept. 30, 2002
Students express concern and 
disappointment about the options for 
dining plans on campus. First-years 
wish there was an all DineX option, 
so lost meal blocks and overeating 
would no longer be issues. Sadly, these 
same problems with the meal plan 
exist today, which may explain why few 
upperclassmen utilize the meal plan.
5years ago
Oct. 1, 2007
As if Carnegie Mellon statistics 
surrounding sexual activity werent 
already depressing enough, a recent 
study suggests there actually is a 
correlation between IQ and sexual 
activity  the higher one is, the lower 
the other. Looks like the slogan Sex 
Kills: Come to CMU and live forever is 
as accurate as we all wished it wasnt.
1year ago
Oct. 3, 2011
The associate dean of Dietrich College 
responds to an article critiquing the 
disjointedness of the programs in 
the college, arguing that the broad 
range of programs makes the college 
more interdisciplinary and supports 
collaboration among students.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 10.01.1211
Stick Cats #5 by Nick Marino nickmarino@gmail.com
  Online at www.nickmarino.net
How Much You Care by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 10.01.12
Two Roads by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.com
PhD Comics by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.com
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 10.01.1213
Solutions from Sept. 24, 2012
CrosswordEasy DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Very Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com/kakuro
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes 
pillbox 10.01.12
1. Thirty Flights attempts to be 
the ideal of this*
2. Country currently engulfed in 
civil war
3. Perks actor*
4. (Chi)politics discussion topic*
5. Federal Reserve program to 
stimulate economy (2 Words)*
6. Photographer Lynn lecturing in 
Roberts*
8. Advice acronym (2 Words)*
10. VP of research leaving for 
Harvard*
13. What Zoghlins phone is not*
15. David Bleis home university*
18. Music magazine of Chen and 
Campbell*
20. Volleyball blocker Olivia*
22. Dorseys university visits 
recruit for this*
23. BRGR dog topping*
27. ITA championships host*
28. Square co-founder James*
29. LeDuc and Wilsons research 
plant*
33. Not later but ___
34. PCR inspiration Is there a war 
on ___ in the US?*
36. Mumford & Sons new album*
37. Yinzers gallery event*
41. TLD for Cte dIvoire
42. More pixels means this (abbr)
1. Did you know she was 
only nine when she got a 
scholarship?*
2. Flying Lotus dubstep track (2 
Words)*
7. Art museum exhibit 
photographer (2 Words)*
9. Romney opposes this but 
signed a similar plan into law*
11. Cornerback scoring 92-yard 
touchdown*
12. Big Chris sport*
14. Anti-sleep campus marketer (2 
Words)*
16. Pittsburgh music festival 
happening this week*
17. BSA ex-sponsor*
19. Carnegie Mellon department 
ranked ninth globally (2 
Words)*
21. Abbr. for 19 across
24. Climate change conversation 
day*
25. The PSO has played his works
26. Blumenthal lecture topic*
28. Hormone secreted during 
REM*
30. Mojo Game Studios CS major*
32. Pro-Obama ad actor*
31. Costly 28X alternative
33. Statistically, Homeland won 
many of these*
35. Tigers hitter Miguel*
38. iOS 6 maps alternative*
39. Glee actors heart theme*
40. Did you know Carnegie ____ 
football games used to have 
attendees?*
43. Avenue hosting art and culture 
exhibits last Friday*
44. Speaker Tom in Kresge 
Theater*
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
You are very judgmental, and that is no bueno. Even if you 
mean well, your attitude toward others may be pushing 
them away.
taurus
april 20may 20
Be who you are. Yes, you have flaws and youre nowhere 
near perfect, but you are exactly who youre meant to be at 
this current moment in time.
gemini
may 21june 21
In the end, everything will turn out fine.
cancer
june 22july 22
One day things will work themselves out. Youre hardworking, and your hard work will be rewarded.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
If things are not going your way, maybe youre just trying 
too hard. Simplify your thoughts and actions, and then 
things will be better.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
People havent been understanding you lately, and its 
probably because you are doing a poor job of providing 
context for the things you talk about. Be clear, and people 
will be more receptive.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
You need to move forward. Youre never going to get 
anywhere unless you start moving forward.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
If there is something in your life that you dont like, then 
change it. It is as simple as doing something different from 
what you are doing now.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Dont rush life. Events, people, and success will all come.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
You have so many conflicting pieces of advice being thrown 
at you that you are starting to feel lost. It is hard trying to 
find your way, but stay focused and dont blindly follow 
what others suggest. 
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Grammar Nazis are your friends. Really, they are. They only 
want what is best for you.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Dont compare yourself to others. You never know the 
details of other peoples lives, so dont envy what you dont 
truly understand.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
By Alan Vangpat. Generated with armoredpenguin.com/crossword.
Tartan Crossword
Clues with an * have solutions that can 
be found in this weeks issue of The 
Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 10.01.1215
MONDAY10.1.12
King Orchid with Motometer and Danger Animal. 
Gar?eld Artworks. 8 p.m.
Progressive rock band King Orchid will perform at Gar?eld 
Artworks with Motometer and Danger Animal.
TUESDAY10.2.12
The Corin Tucker Band. brillobox. 9:30 p.m.
Punk rock group The Corin Tucker Band will perform at 
brillobox.
WEDNESDAY10.3.12
Triggers. Arsenal Lanes. 9 p.m.
Local rock band Triggers will perform at Arsenal Lanes in 
Lawrenceville.
Presidential Debate Watch Party. McConomy 
Auditorium. 9 p.m.
Student Body President Will Weiner and Vice President 
Meela Dudley will present a viewing of this years U.S. 
Presidential Debate. The viewing will be followed by a 
moderated discussion of the issues addressed. Students 
will also be able to register to vote at the event.
THURSDAY10.4.12
CMU Dance Music Festival. College of Fine Arts Lawn. 
4:30 p.m.
The ?rst-ever CMU Dance Music Festival takes place 
this Thursday, featuring DJs from around the city and 
free food. The event is sponsored in part by the Cilidh 
Weekend Committee.
FRIDAY10.5.12
SSION. Skibo Cafe. 2 p.m.
AB Lectures and TransQ (an interdisciplinary Carnegie 
Mellon course taught by associate professor of art 
Suzie Silver) present a special live-taped talk show with 
subversive pop out?t SSION and local queer celebrity 
Alaska Thunderfuck. Alaska will perform an opening 
drag number before SSION performs original songs and 
participates in a Q & A session. The event is part of the 
VIA Music & New Media Festival.
SATURDAY10.6.12
Tapped: Braddock. John Street (in Braddock). 2 p.m.
Tapped: Braddock is an all-day event that will feature 
beer tastings, food, and live music  all on John Street 
in Braddock. The event will feature beer tastings from The 
Brew Gentlemen and Full Pint, cocktails from Bar Marco, 
a pig roast from local chef Kevin Sousa, and a variety of 
food trucks.
A CaPittsburgh. Rangos Ballroom. 8 p.m.
Counterpoint presents the annual A CaPittsburgh 
concert featuring all six a cappella groups from Carnegie 
Mellon. This years event features a guest group from the 
University of Pittsburgh. All proceeds from the concert will 
bene?t three music-oriented charities around the world. 
Tickets are $5 in advance and $7 at the door.
ONGOING
VIA Music & New Media Festival. Various locations. 
Monday through Saturday.
The third annual VIA Music & New Media Festival takes 
over East Liberty this week. During each performance, a 
DJ or producer is paired with a visual artist for a unique 
performance. This years line up includes Moodymann, 
Tiger & Woods, Nadastrom, Girl Unit, Julia Holter, Laurel 
Halo, and Andy Scott, among others. See the full lineup, 
locations, and ticket information at via-pgh.com.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
The board of directors of WRCT Radio Inc., 
licensee of WRCT Pittsburgh, 88.3 FM, will hold 
its annual meeting at 2 p.m. on Sunday, Oct. 
6 at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, 
Pa., to install new of?cers and conduct any 
necessary business. Anyone wishing to attend 
should register at least 24 hours in advance 
by contacting General Manager, Alex Price, at 
gm@wrct.org or 412-621-0728.
Agency Contact Representative - Be part 
of a energized, fun, and productive team. 
We are looking for someone whos upbeat, 
talkative, friendly, and projects a good attitude. 
Candidates who dont accept NO too easily. 
Part-time $10/hr. 412-874-1893

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 10.01.12
Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
Brian Thompson (top) and Sam Lee (bottom) performed at The Underground last Thursday in a concert 
presented by AB Underground. Thompson put on a lively, country-in?uenced set, using his guitar as a 
drum, breaking an A string, and playing a melodica. Lee joined Thompson for his ?nal song before going 
into a set of his own.
underground concert.
