TARTAN
February 28, 1978 Volume 78, Number 21 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
"I do believe that teaching is excellent at this university."
Cyert outlines 
strategies for excellence
by Lennie Matjasko
Last Wednesday, February 22, President 
Cyert addressed the faculty on the subject 
of Strategies for Excellence in Higher 
Education.
Before "launching forth" on his strate
gies for excellence, Cyert presented his 
definition of the term. "My definition of 
excellence does relyit has to relyto 
a great extent on the judgment of pro
fessionals...Certainly, as a first approxi
mation, we must judge ourselves in as 
objective way as we can and judge our own 
quality to the standards that we do set 
ourselves...And it must be done in an hon
est fashion." He emphasized the hazards of 
imitation, the importance of being "true 
to ourselves." Specifically, he character
ized excellence as "paying attention to the 
smallest detail and attempting to do a 
professionally honest job in every facet of
education and research.
Dr. Cyert then delineated his strategies 
for achieving such excellence. First, he 
stressed the necessity of a strong financial 
base. '.'A good deal can be accomplished 
by energy and imagination, far more than 
people realize. But no institution can reach 
the heights without adequate resources." 
He cited the Investments in Progress cam
paign as the university's most important 
means of achieving fiscal stability. "Today 
we are at the $65 million mark, and, with 
a little luck, we will achieve our goal by the 
time the campaign ends, in late 1979." 
Cyert also stated that, in order to achieveboth fiscal stability and improved academic 
quality, "we hav.> heer -vlucine raje of 
growth in the adm nisinitive secloi and in
creasing the rate of growth in the academic 
sector." He supported this statement with 
statistics from die Annual Financial and 
Statistical Report for the year ending June 
30, 1977.
From linutcia1 excellence, Cyert moved
As a result of the thirteen-week-old 
United Mine Workers coal strike, which 
has reduced coal stockpiles to an estimated 
twenty-day level, Duquesne Light has or
dered CMU to cut back to 75% of its usual 
electrical consumption.
The 25% cutback is based on CMU's 
average electrical consumption for the 
months of October, November, and De
cember 1977. According to a memo from 
V' eP 'Md'P1 Last it to 'he impiis
COPimunilV (Hidav. Fehm:V:y. th -
aveiage is 102,540 kilowatt hours (KWH) 
pei day, and must be limited to /o^Ui 
KWH per day. A reading taken at 10 AM 
on Friday, February 24 from CMU's 
unofficial meters showed an electrical 
consumption of 69,000 KWH, which is 
67% of the base use.
Duquesne Light intends to read their 
official meters on a daily basis beginning 
today. If CMU doesn't conform to 
Duquesne's demands, they will give the 
school two days' notice to improve its peron to discuss academic excellence and 
the "ingredients" of it. He stated that an 
excellent academic organization "must 
have outstanding faculty , outstanding stu
dents, good curricula, an administration 
that commands the resources effectively 
and continues to provide the incentives for 
greater excellence on the part of the mem
bers of the organization, and a strong and 
committed Board of Trustees."
Cyert next talked specifically about 
faculty. "The general strategy that I favor 
for building strength is the recruiting of the 
best young people on the market in any 
particular year, assuming they meet our ab
solute standards. . .in contrast to one in 
which a strong attempt is made to build 
instant success by hiring stars." From a 
practical standpoint, he pointed out that, 
"It's important for deans and department 
heads to know as precisely as possible what 
the market price is and what is needed in 
order to attract the brightest young peo
ple." He also stressed that, "It's crucial to 
have senior people who, through example, 
help develop the kind of work habits that 
will enable talented young people to be
come distinguished scholars."
The next point Cyert discussed was the 
idea of whether or not it is wise to develop 
and implement strategic plans at all. He 
pointed out that, "Such an approach might 
seem to contradict the notion that an 
individual's research should go where 
his/her curiosity takes the person." But he 
further stated, "In a school such as ours, 
small in size, with strong but limited re
sources,...! believe that it's important at 
all times for scholars to be assessing their 
fields as well as related fields, and, in that 
assessment, to help guide the direction of 
the department...Given small size, we must 
be prepared to find areas within each de
partment where we can concentrate our 
resources so as to develop our abilities
formance. They might then shut off power 
to the school.
But, as the figures show, CMU is so far 
meeting the mandate. Dr. Van Horn at
tributes most of the reduction to the use 
of a :>mail 100-ton chiller to cool the com
putation center in place of the large 750- 
ton Science Hall chiller and to changes in 
air handlers for heating at Skibo, GSIA, 
Hunt Library and Warner Hall. The remain
ing reductions are due to energy conserva
tion activities by faculty, staff and stu
dents. including shutting down elevators 
in bii'ldiims where there are ni-wo than 
,)ne (Science Hall), and using minimal 
lighting m common uteas such a> i>kibo, 
academic building hallways and clavsux '>ns, 
and the lihiarv (Half of CMU's electrical 
conMimntH'n is used toi Jiyh'ine I Van 
Horn posits, "It we can continue at this 
rate, we will meet the Duquesne manda
tory limit and in addition will nijke a 
substantial voluntary release of electric 
power to the Pittsbuigh community
within departments more effectively. Con
centration must, of course, be accomplish
ed on the research side while maintaining 
the ability to cover a wider range of areas 
on the teaching side." Cyert emphasized 
that the areas in which we concentrate 
should be ones with "leverage." He 
explained, "By leverage I mean the abili
ty to get greater results from a given ef
fort." As examples he mentioned the de
velopment of computer science and the 
transformation of the Math Department in
to a major thrust in applied mathematics. 
He advised the faculty members, "In se
lecting areas for concentration it is impor
tant to look ahead and to attempt to select 
new areas that will be developing into 
important fields, and to attempt to guide 
[the] departments into those areas."
Cyert also advised, "We must avoid the 
academic disease of concentrating on pro
blems that we get out of literature. The literature begins to define the main stream, 
and, in any discipline, one begins to lose 
the feel for the real problems that stimu
lated a person to deal with that discipline 
originally."
Following this, Dr. Cyert dealt with the 
idea *t maintaining a correct balance of 
attention to teaching and research. "A 
great university is one in which taculty 
members give education the same attention 
and care they give research." He looked at 
this from a practical standpoint also. "The 
answer is simple: universities are rapidly 
moving inio the age of the undergraduate 
and the terminal master student. On a
Don Fulmer of Physical Plant says that 
CMU has been making cutbacks in its 
energy consumption since the Arab-in
spired energy crisis of four years ago. He 
encourages people who know of areas 
that are too hot to call him at ext. 2910.
Cyert and Van Horn have expressed 
concern that Duquesne Light might request 
CMU to cut back another 25%, which 
would make CMU operate on 50% of its 
usual power. Cyert suspects that such a 
request would necessitate the closing of 
the computer center, and believes that if 
CMU has to cut back any further than 
50%, classes would be discontinued.
Preparing for the worst, the adminis
tration has come up with three possibil
ities for further reduction of power con
sumption: closing Hunt Library three to 
five hours earlier in the evenings, or leaving 
just the first floor open in the evenings; 
closing down Skibo after dinner time; and 
rescheduling or cancelling all night and 
weekend activities.
purely financial basis, it is clear that any umversn> must attract undergraduates to 
survive, and the fall in high school gradu
ates available for higher education is going 
to make each school compttinve in its 
recruitment policy... It is outstanding aca
demic reputation that students indicate is 
the attractive force for them." Further, 
Cyert stressed that part of being a pro
fessional educator is internalizing a responsihilitv to profession'! standards "whethe 
or not the organization is smart enough 
to reward us."
Along with all of this advice, Cyert 
stressed, "I do believe that teaching is 
excellent at this university." He stated 
that, "the complaints are relatively rare," 
yet underlined, "one cannot rest on one's 
laurels."
Before he concluded, President Cyert 
mentioned two new ideas which he is in 
favor of implementing at CMU. One is the 
development of an institute for the study 
of education as a discipline. This, he said, 
will be discussed in the near future. The 
second is the establishmen' f a research 
fund for new projects that aren't yet in the 
stage where external financing is possible. 
The research which would be funded 
would not be limited to interdisciplinary 
work.
Cyert concluded, "This is a great 
institution and when I step down I want 
it to be still greater. My energies and ef
forts are dedicated to that task. I feel 
strongly that you are all with me on this 
matter."
news...
Black Week coming up soon (ps. 2) 
Things i i happening at WRCT (pg. 3) 
New SDC President elected (pgs. 2, 3 )
entertainment...
AB and Food Service plan night out
ipg21)
Patti Smith in concert (pg. 21)
sports...
Bethany shatters CMU title hopes
(Pg-32)
CMU AD considered for Bradley spot
(Pg. 32)
folio...
This week, anything goes (pg. 13)
F.M. Esfandiary, 
Up-Winger 
page 8
________________________________
. CMU fares well, in energy cutback

---------------------------------------------------

page 2TART ANFebruary 28, 1978SPIRIT invites campus to 
participate in Black Week
by C.T. Goodman
This year Carnegie-Mellon's minority 
organization, SPIRIT, is sponsoring its 
annual Black Week from Saturday, 
March 11 to Saturday, March 18. Since 
one of this year's goals is to incorporate 
campus-wide participation, Black Week has 
been planned to include a variety of cul
tural, social, and educational events which 
will better expose the public to the exist
ence of the black community. In past 
years, Black Week has been black-run and 
almost solely black-attended. Although 
the black population will benefit from the 
week, other races and nationalities will 
also. It is to these people, especially, that 
SPIRIT is offering a very personal invita
tion to participate.
Although the entire week is packed with 
interesting activities, there are a few 
events which stand out. One of these is the 
appearance of poet and film actress Ruby 
Dee in the Skibo ballroom Monday even
ing, March 13. Wife of actor Ossie Davis, 
Ms. Dee is a well-known perfomer in her 
own right. She will speak on an assortment 
of topics, probably centering on some as
pect of the Black Week theme, "I am what 
I am (and have the need to be)," and will 
hold a question and answer period at the 
end.  As an actress and poei, Ms. Dee's 
visit should appeal to students in drama 
and creative writing as well as to the
black audience.
Another social yet somewhat cultural 
event is the annual Black Week Talent 
Show, to be held on Friday, March 
17. This year the Talent Show is billed 
as "A Celebration of Black Excellence," 
and will be a semi-formal affair. Featuring 
amateur acts from the campus and sur
rounding communities, it is being held as a 
thankful tribute to past black entertainers 
who have opened the doors for today's 
perfomers who are carrying on their 
tradition of excellence. An art display and 
wine and cheese reception will precede the 
Talent Show. .
The highlight of Black Week, however, 
will be a semi-formal fashion show and 
dinner-dance. Although the dinner portion 
of the affair is reserved for SPIRIT mem 
bers and their dates, the fashion show and 
dance which will follow are open to the 
public. Fashions and make-up will be 
supplied and done by professionals and the 
show will feature models from the CMU 
campus.
Although most of the Black Week acti
vities are black-oriented, some are not. 
Many are purely social events designed 
to acquaint the campus community with 
the SPIRIT organization. Below is a com
plete schedule of Black Week. The activi
ties are planned for everyone to enjoy.
Black Week Agenda 
March 11-18, 1978
Saturday, March 11
2:00PM Luncheon Seminar Wherret Room 
Free with Spirit ID
6:00PM Movie:"Sparkle"
8:30PM Free/Sponsored by SDC 
11:00PM Doherty Hall 2210
9:00PM Disco/Dance Skibo Ballroom 
75 cents with College ID
Sunday, March 12
2:00PM Backgammon Tournament WR 
$ 1.00 Entrance Fee
8:00PM A Chat with Pres. Cyert 
Free
Thursday. March 16
11:30AM Movie: "Roots" Ch. 12
12:30PM Free
7:00PM Poetry Reading
By (7) Duquesne Students 
(3) CMU Students 
Free
WR
SB
SB
8:00PMGreek Sing 
Free
7:00PMGospel Show 
Free
SB
Monday, March 13
11:30AM Movie: "Roots" Ch. i0 SB 
12:30PM  Free/Sponsored by Student 
Activities Board
8:00PM Guest Speaker - Ruby Dee SB 
$ 1.00 in advance $1.50 at door 
Co-sponsored by AB lectures
Tuesday, March 14 
8:00PM Study Break
Free
WR
Wednesday, March 15
11:30AM Movie: "Roots" Ch. 11 SB
12:30PM Free
Friday, March 17
5:00PM Speaker/Seminar WR
Mrs. Brenda Schofield from Clairol 
Sponsored by MWTS
7:30PM Talent Show SB
$1.50 in advance $2.00 at door
6:30PM Movie: "Greased Lightning" 
9:00PM Sponsored by AB Movies
11:30PM DH2210
Saturday, March 18
10:00AM Madd Invitational Gym
7:00PM Semi-Formal SB
Dinner/Dance & Fashion Show 
$5.00
NOTE: For $6.50 you can purchase a 
"Package Deal" ticket which entitles you 
to attend all Black Week activities free of 
charge.
i
TsCMU HILLEL CLUB
FRIDAY NIGHT GET-TOGETHER
(ON EG SHABBAT)
FRIDAY, MARCH 3 
8:30 P.M.
SKIBO ROOM 39 
REFRESHMENTS
Property damage costly 
for CMU students
by Jean Pellegrini
Bill Dillon's "View From Warner Hall" 
article in last week*s TARTAN stated that 
"residents are causing in excess of one 
hundred and fifty thousand dollars worth 
of otherwise unnecessary maintenance this 
year as the result of vandalism, thefts, and 
carelessness." In light of this statement,
, I asked Mr. Michael Corletti, Director of 
Security, how much and what kind of 
vandalism is, in fact, happening on campus.
Mr. Corletti stated, "The term vandal
ism really isn't the proper one to use. 
What we're talking about would be prop
erty damage. We do have a problem with 
property damage. The best means of 
solving the problem is involvement by the 
student body."
"On the top of my list is fire equip
ment." While the cost of recharging a 
fire extinguisher may seem nominal, the 
cost in terms of possible property damage 
and lives lost would be indeterminable if 
there was a fire and the extinguisher was 
not available.
"We don't always get reports of this 
kind because the first notion is to replace 
the extinguisher. This is a frequent type 
of incident, but it would be difficult to 
say exactly how often it happens." :
The importance, as far as Security is 
concerned, is realizing that the safety of 
the campus is endangered by a thoughtless 
act of vandalism.
"Second, the marking of walls, writing, 
etc., with all types of materials occurs 
frequently. There is some surface damage 
but the labor cost to restore walls to or
iginal condition is what is so high. I think 
students here are logical. Students should 
just look at this problem logically."
Third, miscellaneous but hazardous in-* 
continued to page 4
The SDC space
by C. E. Stewart
SDC Executive Board elections were 
held at last week's meeting. Carolyn Welty, 
the former Vice-president of the More-^ 
wood area was elected as the new President 
of SDC. Abby Selman, a Donner Hall rep
resentative, was elected Vice-president of 
the Hill area, and John Alexander was el
ected Vice-president of Morewood. Bill ^ 
Reiner replaced Frank Worbs as Treasurer, 
and Mindy Jo Snyder was unanimously el
ected Secretary.
All of SDC would like to thank the 
former members of the Executive Board 
(Sam Grego, Rudy Rutherford, Carolyn 
Welty, Frank Worbs, and Stephanie Waite) 
for doing an> excellent job this past year.
Also at last weeks meeting a motion 
was made and unanimously passed to do 
away with the regulation which prohibited 
the purchase of alchoholic beverages with 
SDC private party funds. As one represent
ative commented," everbody has always 
used the money to buy beer and then simp
ly turned in all these other grocery store 
receipts. We might as well drop the regula, . Iftion.
Food Service Committee Chairman 
Linda Becker reported that during her last 
meeting with Mr. Eichmuller, he stated 
that Morewood Cafeteria may again be 
closed on weekends this semester. Several 
weeks ago, a plan was announced by Food 
Service^ to close Morewood Cafeteria per
manently, and -to build an addition onto 
Skibo.
President Sam Grego led a discussion 
about Housing's plan to increase co-ed liv
ing in all the dormitories on campus. Also 
discussed was the current power shortage, 
and how it could affect students living in 
the dormitories.
See related story on page 3.

---------------------------------------------------

February 28, 1978TARTANpage 3
by Linda Deak
Senate braved both the cold and the 
mandatory power reductions at last week's 
meeting m the Ballroom. There was a no
ticeable correlation between the physical 
conditions and the substance of the meet
ing, as not much material was illuminated 
by numbed senators.
John Lubon's external housing com
mittee hit upon another administrative 
stumbling block in a meeting with Bill 
Dillon, Director of Auxiliary Services.
It seems that Auxiliary Services will 
fund an off-campus housing service, but 
they do not want to operate it. Dean 
Swank claims that "Auxiliary Services 
asked that the service be operated by Stu
dent Affairs, so that there would not be a 
question on the quality of the service."
Swank also noted that the flu epidemic 
has passed, and, although Health Office 
visits have dropped to about sixty per day, 
he warns that "students not seeing a nor
mal remission of the disease should go back, 
to the Health Office, as complications may 
arise.
Dean Swank also commented on CMU's 
electrical cutbacks. Senator Carl Fetteroll 
eagerly asked if there was substance to the 
rumor that classes would be cancelled next 
week. Swank reassured him that this mea
sure would only be enforced if CMU 
had to go beyond a 50% reduction of the 
calculated average utilization.
To correct what was mentioned in last 
week's column on the status of the Kiltie 
Band, M was recognized as supported, 
which allows the Band to petition Senate 
for funding.
Fetteroll announced the times and poll
ing areas for the March 9 and 10 elections. 
Polls in the Morewood Gardens, Donner 
Hall, and Skibo lobbies will be open from 
8 AM-12 PM Thursday and from 8 AM4 PM Friday.
The budget hearings begin this evening. 
If you want to argue for or against a club's 
budget, stop by the Wherrett Room at 
7:00. ~
Senate elections 
March 9&10
raise funds 
for new antenna
by Lennie Matjasko
After years of deliberation, WRCT is 
finally on the verge of acquiring a new 
antenna and a new location for that 
antenna. Currently, WRCT has a twobay, 33-foot antenna located on top of 
Skibo, which is 39 feet high. The station 
would like io purchase a fivebay, 52 foot 
7 inch nntenna and to install it '-r top of 
Warner Han, which is 92 feet, 9 inches 
high. According to Steve Kane. News 
Director and disc jockey at WRCT, this 
antenna is "one of the highest quality 
ten-watt antennas on the market."
Steve explained that when a station 
applies for a new antenna, the FCC re
quires that the station do a topograph
ical survey covering a ten mile radius 
from the proposed antenna site. Students 
Kevin Farley and David Kalmeyer took 
land elevation readings and did the cal
culations to determine the average area 
that the station presently covers and the 
area it would cover if the five-bay antenna 
were put on top of Warner Hall. The 
initial estimate is that the station would 
cover sixty per cent more area with the 
new antenna on Warner Hall than it 
does now. Steve Kane is in the process 
of doing a field strength study to deter
mine the effect of relocating the twobay antenna from Skibo to Warner Hall.
There is, at least, a need for this re
location, if not for both a new fivebay antenna and a relocation. Steve ex
plained that "now you can hear us down
town at the Triangle, but not at Pitt." 
There are also reception problems in the 
Hill dorms and in the fraternity houses.
But what it all comes down toand 
doesn't every thingis cost. An initial 
estimate of the cost, including the antenna, 
electrical equipment, labor, and the actual 
erection of the antenna is approximately 
$25,000. $25,000 which,' at present,
WRCT does not have. Student Corp
oration, which owns and is legally re
sponsible for WRCT's license, proposed 
to the Student Senate Finance Commit
tee that Senate put up three dollars for
continued next column
ATTENTION SCIENCE
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
Senate murmurs WRCT to
Steve Kane, News Director and DJ at WRCT, will conduct a 5(Vhour radiothon for a new antenna.
every one dollar that WRCT raises on 
its own. The Finance Committee has 
passed this proposal, which means only 
that the proposal will be taken to the 
entire Student Senate for consideration.
In the meantime, WRCT has already 
planned a fund-raising project. The sta
tion is airing a marathon radio program 
scheduled to beoin at 6 PM on March 3 
and to end at 8 PM on March 5. Steve 
Kane will be the jock to conduct the 
entire fifty-hour marathon, and he ex
plained the pledging procedure. " Induring, and after the marathon. They 
should pledge by the hour. For instance, 
if you pledge one penny per hour, that's 
fifty cents. Wa will play anything that 
anyone asks us to-for money. We can 
mention on the air firms and people 
that contribute, but we cannot mention 
products." Steve is very enthusiastic 
about the marathon and feels he'll have 
no problem lasting the full fifty hours. 
He encourages sM to litten-at 88.3 on 
the FM dial-and to pledge what they 
can so that WRCT -can become bigger
dividuals can call and pledge before, and better.New President speculates on SDC future
by Stephanie Waite
Carolyn Welty, a former SDC Vice-pres
ident from Morewood, has been elected to 
succeed Sam Grego as President of SIX.
Ms. Welty, a junior economics major, is 
optimistic about SDC. She proclaims that, 
"SDC is finally getting somewhere. 
It was a worthwhile organization a vouple 
of years ago. Now. finally, we re starting to 
ha*, a von.. puiiiK. Peopie u.e teally 
beginning to listen to us. A good example 
of the strides SDC has made is the planned 
housing protest."(See ad. this week's
1 AIV 1 .)
One reason that Welty thinks SDC will 
be coming into its own as an organization 
this year is that,"Housing is the biggest 
problem now affecting CMU students, and 
SDC is the campus organization best suited 
to deal with that problem." She is confi
dent that SDC will be able to deal with 
these problems, because "there's more in
volvement now in SDC than I've ever seen 
before, and I think we can put all that involvment to good use."
The biggest problem Welty sees con
fronting her this year is "the general ap
athy of the students. In everything we dc 
we have to acknowledge that we will noi 
be getting 100% support. With the support
we do have,we have to get out and find ou 
what the students want."
Welty has no definite plans for SDC'i 
future, but she does state that, "I'd like to 
see social stay on the same level it is now 
at In the political arena, 'here is room foi
improvement."
But look," she explains, we have 
accomplished something. Our accomplish 
ments compared to last year have almost 
doubled. It's all dependent on the individ
ual, and how much work he or she is will 
ing to put into the organization. It's hare 
to say exactly what will happen." 1
Former President Sam Grego likewise 
stated that he was oleir^ with SDC's ac 
complishme*its over l.e past year, an< 
urged the new officers to continu 
operating as an efficient organization 
"one of the most efficient now operatin 
at CMU "
AND ENGINEERINGMAJORS!
The Air Force has openings (or young men and women maioring in 
selected science and engineering fields Like Aeronautical. Aerospace. 
General and Electrical Engineenng. Mathematics Physics and Com 
puter Technology 
To help prepare for one of these. Air Force ROTC offers two and 
four year programs of study which will defray some of your college 
costs
After completion of the AFROTC requirement, and upon your grad 
uation. youirbe commissioned an officer in the Air Force Then comes 
responsibility, experience in your specialty with some of the best peo 
pie and facilities in the world, and a mission with a purpose You'H get 
excellent starting salary, medical and denial care. 30 days of paid va 
cation beginning your first year, and more
Look into the Air Force ROTC program right away See what's in it 
for you See how you can serve your country in return You'll be glad 
you put your major to work on a job that really coupts
Call 624-6397 or see us in Room
435, Cathedral of Learning/mtimrfusmROTC
Gateway to a great way of life.

---------------------------------------------------

page 4TARTANFebruary 28, 1978
Michael Corletti says "Everyone must pull together ' to eliminate campus vandalism.
Property damage
continued from page 2
cidents which happen in the dormitories 
are major causes of property damage: 
kicked-in walls, pulled or missing elec
trical fixtures, abused doors, glass break
age, etc.
"There is a question of safety involved 
here. For example, if an electrical fixture 
such as a light were damaged, the person 
committing the act could be shocked, en
dangering his personal safety. An elec
trical fire could be started, jeopardizing
the residents' safety, and so on. Dorm 
living should be fun, but it could exclude 
damage. Again, the real control is the stu
dents themselves."
Mr. Corletti added that "damage to 
dormitories is not always caused by the 
residents of that same building. Often 
residents from another building will cause 
the damage. We've found dorm damage to 
happen mostly on the weekends."
Some recent property damage reports 
include 
Fire extinguisher discharge-- continual 
problem.
Lighting fixtures-pulled and/or smashed. 
Parking gate s-rou finely broken, often by 
CMU students but also by outsiders 
trying to park.
Glass breakage-high number of incidents 
in academic buildings, dormitories, 
Skibo, aqd Doherty Hall.
Vending machines-continually abused by
Broken v. :nd('ws--dorm buildings (a drink
ing glass was thrown through a win
dow), cafeteria (a cup was tossed 
through a window), fraternity house (a 
pellet gun was used to damage win
dows).
Chemical safetv hower-heads-removed 
from fixture in Science Hall on two 
separate occasions in the past six 
months, which caused hundreds of 
dollars of damage (flooded hallways, 
offices).
Light standard-removed and left in nearby 
embankment in Morewood Garden 
parking lot.
Electrical tubing-eight feet of tubing was 
pulled through wall in hill dormitory 
building.
Phones-all over campus, receivers are 
yanked, etc.
Bulletin boards-burned in various 
buildings (cost of replacement is 
approx. $350.00).
Parking meters (12) and office doors.(6 in 
GSIA)-locks were loaded with epoxy 
glue.
Gym door-apparently kicked in.
"Most of these incidents would result in 
real safety problems. With broken glass on 
the floors, electrical fixtures exposed, etc., 
personal safety is obviously in danger. 
Lii^hts which are there to illuminate a 
building for residents' security purposes are 
destroyed, bulletin boards fuii of informa
tion for the students are burned, which 
makes understanding of the property da
mage problem difficult." :
"The university doesn't want to make
the campus an unbearable place to live, 
so the university must rely on the student 
body to control the problem."
"Everyone must pull together. For 
example, .parking lot controls have been 
installed, a move pushed by Bill Dillon, 
Director of Auxiliary Services, and security 
patrols have been increased in the parking 
areas whtrh have lowered tlie incidence of 
car theft. In Area 8 (Morewood Gardens).
where 90% are student vehicles, this theft K 
prevention step has helped immensely."
"If anyone is doubtful about the seri
ousness of this problem, they need only 
to take a tour of the campus and find 
out.
To conclude, Mr. Corletti said, "You're 
supposed to enjoy campus living. It would 
be more enjoyable with the absence of 
this problem." (stuUenia.
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC
414RCH
MAOttESS
BOOK STORE SALE, starts /March 1
/Issorted clothing,
Scarves,
Hats,
Laundry bags, 
Selected books, 
Assorted posters, 
Odds 8c Ends, 
Bits & Pieces
(
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,

---------------------------------------------------

February 28, 1978TARTANpage 5
Career Services reports 
high percentage of recent 
alumni employed
The Career Services and Placement Office offers career counseling and help with summer and per
manent job placement. Between 1500 and 1800 students contact the office throughout the year.
join a leaderin informationprocessing
As one of the few companies in the 
world capable of exploiting the full 
potential of todays most sophisticated 
computer hardware and software sys
tems, National CSS has consistently 
shown itself to be a leader in Total In
formation Processing.
Our operations include the largest IBM 
based computer system in commercial 
timesharing, and we will soon be intro
ducing a lino of state-of-the-art mini
computer systems.
As for Research and Development, 
National CSS ranks Number 1 among 
all U.S. computer companies in R&D 
dollars spent per employee . . . and 
8th among all publicly held companies 
in the U.S.
As a National CSS professional, you 
will be deeply involved in a multi
project Systems Development Depart
ment, working in a stimulating environ
ment conducive to career growth, in
the following systems programming 
areas:
 Developing distributed data base 
technology.
 Developing sophisticated high 
performance time-sharing operat
ing systems utilizing virtual mem
ory and paging techniques.
 Simulation of OS and VS access 
methods and supervisory services 
in a time-sharing environment.
 Minicomputer software for expan
sion of our international packet 
switch communications network.
 Interactive software for program 
debugging and text editing.
 User oriented problem-solving 
environment.
 State-of-the-art minicomputer 
systems.
If you are motivated by challenge and 
opportunities for significant accom
plishments, National CSS is for you.
by Andrew L. Ragan
Taking statistics from a survey to which 
80% of 1977 CMU graduates responded, 
Mr. Dennis Ryan,CMU's Director of Career 
Services and Placements, reports that 77% 
of last year's graduates are currently em
ployed, while 20% are engaged in full-time 
graduate studies. Only 3% are unemployed.
According to Mr. Ryan, "Last year...was 
the best year since the sixties" with re
spect to the job market and the. success of 
his office's 1977 campaign. He believes 
that this year promises to be even better, as 
evidenced by the fact that the office re
corded the highest number of job inter
views for the fall period (October through 
December) since it began keeping records 
for that statistic. The director sees this 
trend as continuing through the spring, and 
he looks optimistically ahead to the next 
few years.
No matter what college or year a stu
dent is in, no time is too soon to start 
thinking *V)ut employment. There ar** <;areei counselors available in the Placement 
Office to help students decide on career 
goals and to inform them about ways to 
acquire good jobs. Students should discuss 
job goals early in the course of their college 
careers; plans for getting good jobs need 
not wait until the senior year. The key to 
success is planning ahead.
Mr. Ryan stresses the need for many 
students to pursue careers on their own, 
without his office's help. Students in some 
areas can find jobs easily because the job 
markets in their fields are large. Other job 
markets are naturally tighter, and jobs are 
less abundant. For example,of all 1977 CIT 
and MIS graduates, 75% to 85% of those 
who got jobs made contacts through the 
Placement Office. On the other hand, of all 
the H&SS students who went to work after 
graduating, only 20% got their jobs as a re
sult of interviews arranged by Mr. Ryan's 
facility. Similarly, the College of Fine Arts 
relies very heavily on outside interviews 
and contacts. In general, the job market for 
engineers seems to be growing quickly, 
while the humanities' job market remains 
stable.
In addition to the counseling of undergraduates with respect to career goals, the 
Placement Office offers undergraduates 
the use of a growing' extensive career lv 
brary. Also, the office attempts to help 
students find summer job opportunities.
Mr. Ryan points out that students inter
ested in acquiring a summer job through 
the Career Services and Placement Office 
should register as soon as possible. Em
ployers who come to CMU to interview 
graduates and seniors often make requests 
for summer help, and the office coordi 
nates such requests with the corresponding 
abilities and interests of those students 
who have notified the office of their desire 
for summer work. He adds that this is the 
time of the year that employers begin ser
iously considering their summer job needs.
Also, according to Mr. Ryan, CMU is on 
a master list of selected universities from 
which federal agencies select highly quali
fied students to serve on internships 
throughout the country. Although the se
lection process is stringent and only a few 
students are accepted, ihe director empha
sizes that CMU has already made twentyiive to thirty nominations.
Mr. Ryan is happy with the number of 
students who are using the Career Services 
and Placement Office. He estimates that 
between 1500 and 1800 students contact 
the office throughout the year.
When asked how CMU compares to 
other schools in the area of job placement, 
Mr. Ryan stated that this university has job 
placement percentages equal to or better 
than most of the other top schools in the 
country. He attributes this success to the 
high quality of CMU students, and to their 
subsequent reputation in employment cir
cles.
It is interesting to note that any gradu
ate from CMU, regardless of age or year of 
graduation, has access to the Career Ser
vices and Placement Office. Perhaps this 
may be of some assurance to those who 
wish to take a break after graduation, to 
those who wish to try a variety of jobs, or 
to those who just run into hard times after 
being out of school for a while.
 Iron City
 Schlitz
 Bud
 Koehler
 Strohs
 Genesee
 Rolling Rock
 Hop 'n Gator
 Schlitz Malt
 Ballantine Ale
 Rheingold
 Miller Light
 Michelob
 Pabst
 Miller
 Colt 45
 Genesee Cream Ale
 Busch
 Duke
 Schmidts
 Champale
featuring 22 Varieties of Steak Subs 
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM-2 PM
Quarts  Mugs  Pitchers
One different 16-07. 6 pk. featured each week
SCHLITZ SCHMIDTS PABST
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Specialty Items: RESH CUT FRENCH FR,ES ^ 7 PIZZA SERVED TIL 3 AM
3901 FORBES AVE. (OAKLAND) 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
For further information, see our Recruiter on campus, 
Thursday, March 9,1978
Contact your Career Placement Office 
to arrange an appointment.
An Equ*l Opportunity Employ M/F
4gs National CSS
...answers for business & industry
Hot Dog*Choice of 12 Different Condiments 
35 Varieties of Sandwiches
621-7388
HOI OK sum, INC.
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTOR'S HOT UNE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

page 6TARTANFebruary 28, 1978
Fire alarm 
tests scheduled
Physical Plant has released its new 
schedule for campus fire alarm system 
tests. These tests are not signals of fire 
drills; and therefore should be disregarded.
Should an actual fire occur on one of 
the scheduled test dates, observers of the 
fire should call Security (ext. 2323) direct
ly, emphasizing, "This is not a test."
The tests will occur between 7:30 AM 
and 3:30 PM on the following days and 
in the following locations:
Housing
March 31, 1978 
April 28, 1978 
May 26,1978 
June 30,1978 
July 28, 1978 
August 25, 1978 
September 29, 1978 
October 27, 1978 
November 17, 1978 
December 15, 1978
Academic Buildings
March 30, 1978 
April 27, 1978 
May 25, 1978 
June 29, 1978 
July 25, 1978 
August 24, 1978 
September 28, 1978 
October 26, 1978 
November 16, 1978 
December 14, 1978
SWE
announces Technical 
Careers Conference
by Mary Weeks
The CMU Society of Women Engineers 
is sponsoring the CMU Technical Careers 
Conference on Saturday, March 4 in the 
Wherrett Room. The conference is geared 
toward both college and high school stu
dents, with emphasis on the problems and 
rewards of pursuing a technical education 
and career. A major part of the confer
ence will be corporate exhibits. Represen
tatives from such firms as Allegheny Ludlum, Olin Company, Proctor and Gamble, 
General Electric, Corning Glass, Union 
Carbide, Elliott Company, Booz-Allen and 
Hamilton, Crucible, and Westinghouse will 
be on hand with information about careers 
with their companies.
Although high school workshops will 
deal primarily with different aspects of a 
technical education, a series of workshops 
has been planned for college students. 
Topics include: choosing a career, grad
uate school, resume writing with a mock 
interview, professional couples, and several 
?MU alumni's feelings on going to graduate 
school versus getting a job.
All may attend any or all of these work
shops. There is no charge and registration 
will be from 9 AM to 10 AM in the Skibo 
obby. A final schedule of exhibits and 
workshops will be available at registration.
The TI-57. The super slide-rule thatll get you into programming... fast and easyEven if youve never programmed before.
For the student who re
quires slide-rule 'unctions, the 
TI-57 delivers an exceptional 
combination of advanced 
mathematical and statistical 
capabilities. From functions 
such as trig, logs, powers, roots 
and reciprocals...to mean, var
iance, standard deviation and 
much more.
And as long as youre in 
the market for a super sliderule calculator, why not buy 
one that can also put the power, 
speed and convenience of pro
gramming at your disposal?
Programming a calculator
* Ntfe; ' . v, 
simply means giving it a logical 
set of instructions for accom
plishing what you want it to 
do. Programming enables you 
to solve lengthy and repetitive 
problems
iuick|y hfitesfc*by sub
stituting 
new vari
ables into 
the set of 
instructions ^. 
which you 
have al
ready entered into the machine.
The end result is more efficient use of your time in prob
lem-solving.
All this and more is ex
plained in our unique, illus
trated, easy-to-follow guide
book, Making Tracks Ijito 
Programming. This 200-page 
book comes with the TI-57. It 
contains simple, step-by-step 
instructions and examples to 
help you quickly learn to use 
programming functions to 
make your problem-solving 
faster, more accurate and fun.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
...INNOVATORS IN 
PERSONAL ELECTRONICS
liten -anC624iaCn
 1978 Texas Instruments IncorporatedINCORPORATED
Next Week: Statements from 
Student Senate candidates
Yout INTERVIEW /5 next SIR !
PLEASE e> 'PATIENT. 
-..BUT ML THAT MOKE..? j p ^
F F.ME sf.EaM ndiry,Up-VOUlL SEE." /*7t)/
QKAY, NOUU rnuu 
MANY 'DORITOS* CA/JMAO tES INT YoufL
MOUW AT THE SAME 
TIME?\
J-IKZ MY./#rtu Widg

---------------------------------------------------

SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE
From the Morewood Vegetarian Room to milkshakes 
at the Grill, University Food Service has the menu to 
suit your mood. We combine variety with a flexible 
time schedule to better serve you. Join us for dinner
some night, and see why University Food Service
*
has SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE...........

---------------------------------------------------

FEATURES
F.M. Esfandiary explains 
Up-Wing philosophy
by Lennie Matjasko people of India can, presumably, deal
Optimism, abundance, universalism, better with their problems. By the same 
immortality. This is the philosophy of token, energy: we talk about moving
F.M. Esfandiary, author of three books, toward a world of scarcity-this is non"Up-Wingers," "Telespheres," and "Optisense. We re moving toward a world of 
mism One," and of articles which have limitless abundance-solar energy, nuclear 
appeared in The New York Times, The fusion, a>d geothermal energy--all these 
New York Times Sunday Magazine, New would not have advanced quite as rapidly 
Times, The Village Voice, and The Futurwere it not for our thrust into space. 
ist. This philosophy is a very attractive Suddenly the sun has opened up to us, and 
oneone which many could easily be I notice here in Pittsburgh a lot of people 
persuaded to share. are talking about dimming the lightsOn February 17 Mr. Esfandiary was you can dim all the lights you want, but 
in Pittsburgh, and I had the opportunity there's no way of dimming the sun. That 
to question him about his "Up-Wing" sun is going to continue shining for another 
philosophy. I began the interview by four and a half billion years. Nobody s 
asking F.M. (as he prefers to be called) going to own that sun, nobody s going to 
to discuss his books. monopolize it. It s there for all of us on
this planet to benefit from. Already our
F.M. There is really no sequence to these spacecraft use solar energy, quite a lot 
books. The three complement one anin fact, and it's just a matter of time, a 
other. The three form the synthesis of matter of a decade or two before we use 
a triumphant new philosophy, or a triumsolar energy extensively for our purposes, 
phant new age. as I see it, emerging. "OpQIn the field of medicine, are there 
timism One" stands for the first age of things that could be found in space that 
optimism. 1 feel that today, for the very could not be found with research done on 
first time, a philosophy of optimism, this nlanet?
an optimistic outlook, has become plausA. Well, you know there is not a single 
ible. The optimism, for instance, of 19th area of human life that has not been, 
century visionaries, like Karl Marx, or jn one way or another, directly radicalNietzsche. or more recently of Bertrand ized by the space thrust. When you think 
Russell, and others, was an optimism of anything-women's liberation, sexual 
predicated on historical change and historliberation, consumer movements, civil 
ical growth, and advances such as social rights, medicine, pharmacology, manufacchange, and economic and political advanturing, communications, transportationces. there is not a single area. Our self-image,
The optimism I've been asserting the the very fact that suddenly we are able 
last ten, fifteen years, twenty years, is to see our nlanet x: a unit rather than 
predicated on something far more basic, sections of it-and I feel this whole generfar more fundamental; that is, the fact ation is giowmg up foi the veiy hist time 
that our very situation in time and space with a view ui a planet as a unit, one biois changed; that we are suddenly, this sphere, and I feel that that thrust itself, 
late twentieth century, no longer confined that new view itself has done a lot for the 
to this biosphere, to this micro-planet; steady phase-out of such things as ethnithat we are suddenly out in this solar city, nationalism, regionalism, and all the 
system and in the universe, and moving inhumanities and all the violence and all 
into a universe of limitless potentials, the provincialism and all the rivalries 
limitless space, limitless resources, limitthat those old systems brought on. So 
less energy. And limitless self-image and a whole now consciousness is really emergrowth. And also, we are moving toward ging--global, universal, much more humanthe conquest of death, striving to become ized.
immortal. So these two evolutionary W Are you an advocate of colonization
and historical breakthroughs really undern Space?
pin my philosophy of optimism, the fact A yes absolutely.
that a whole new species is emerging W edn near do yOU think we are to that
on this planet: extraterrestrial and immorreaijty?
tal.A. We are in it! We are in it. Right now,
Q. What do you say to people who have very minute, as you and I are talking, 
the opinion that space exploration should twQ fdlow humans? who happen to be
be secondary to cleaning up our own <$0viet astronauts but it doesn't matter, 
house? to those who say we should tjiey are tw0 pe0pie from this earth, are 
feed the hungry and take care of the poor? Gut of this world, and have been out of this 
A. Good question. I think that people WOrld for the last. . . it's now close to 
who ask questions as that are not suffiseventy days. And that's the beginning of 
ciently familiar with the dynamics of the colonization. This is, of course, just the 
new space thrust. The best way to feed beginning. Skylab in the earlier part of 
the people on our planet, to alleviate one this decade was an earlier forerunner of it. 
of our age-old problems, including poverty gut when the space shuttle becomes 
and imbalances of wealth, is to continue operational in a couple of years, we can 
pushing for the space program, because expect a more dramatic and a more rapid 
a whole lot of the space hardware has colonization. I think in the late 1980's, 
helped us deal with a lot of the problems 1990's, and then beyond there will be at 
on this planet. . . For instance, were it first at few dozen, and then a few hundred, 
not for global communications, via sateland then a few thousand people living 
lite particularly, the people on the planet longer and longer in space. The cornwould not be as inter-involved and as munities in space, Astrocolonies I call them 
interdependent as we are today. Just let in my books, will continue expanding and 
me give you an example. ATS-6, that's growing and becoming more and more 
Applications Technology Satellite 6, which sophisticated, more and more charming, 
for a couple of years carried on two-way m0re and more liveable, and free of a lot 
education here in the United States. ... 0f our planetary problems. And there will 
where they have very few schools, later come a time, I'd say around the year 
was shifted over to India, and for a year or 2000, when there will be tens of thousands 
two, ATS-6 was able to bring information, living, more or less permanently, outside 
and actually hold classes in about 2500 this planet. And if you want a quick 
villages in the Indian subcontinent. Now, glimpse of la*er on in ihe 21' century. I d 
with this information, of course, the say in about 100 years there may be more
F M. Esfancharv reoards himself as a twentv-first centu v thinker. "In about 100 years there may be 
more people living outside this planet than on it."life, universal procreation. And the biologpeople living outside 1h's planei than jcaj revolution is going to be a great help
on in thato f could go into specifics of it, but
Q. Do you think that government will j don't know if that would really be all
become obsolete? that interesting. Things like sperm banks,
A^esegg banks, telegenesis, all these things are
Q.What do you think about government? impacting heavily on the phase-out of
What do you think about the family, the family A]s0j anQther fmalcomment on
institution of marriage? Will these become ^ age_0id imperatives which made
obsolete and do you think they should? farnjy a viable system, for instance,
A. Yes. Those are good far-reaching economic survival or companionship,
questions. First family, and then 111 jove sex^ continuity; all these things can
attempt to focus on governmentbecause . reaUy fee had outside ^ outs_de
they are really, in a way, interrelated. o^- marriagej so why marry? Why have
Family, I think, is an exclusivist, monoa family?
polistic, and essentially a very disruptive Now, as for government, there again, in 
system. And I don t think it^really has my three books I deal at length with the
much of a future. I think we re moving subject. I feel that we are moving away
toward the rapid phase-out of family, of from a concentration of power. Global
marriage, of exclusive ^relationships, extelecommunications in particular is helpelusive love. I think we re moving toward, ing tQ decentraliZe power,
frankly, a multiplicity of options. An .
individual need not fester in a lifelong QHow do you feel about reigion.
lifestyle. A person can be much more A. I don t feel at all. I think that religions
fluid than ever before. That is, in the and concepts of God and of debility
past, a person in the late teens got marand so on, I think these really answer some
ried and stayed married until death, of our needs durin8 our lon8 Periods of in... fancy and of childhood, meaning human-And nowadays there are a whole lot of , \ _ , . . , ,
options. People can be single, .an be 1,y s infancy' 1 thlnk as humamty now 15
involved in a nonexclusive couple, nonreachinS early adulthood. 1 lhink we are
exclusive triad, mobile communes, and I oin8 !o realize that really lhere are n0
dont see a specific lifestyle taking the Sods u? there ma"iPulatin us or controlplace of the family-there are all kinds of ling us and defining our, trajefory in
options. And I also see us moving toward ,he that we a,r,e althouh ,we are
multiple parenthood rather than exclusive not reaUy the "ly intelljgences m the un-, ~ , , verse--there are others-that we are reallyparenthood, which I find very, very da, , , J___. . . , i  y  * i free agents in the universe and that we are,maging, which I ve explained in at least _  5 , ,c . . i /. i ,1 . , . finally, the only determinants of our fu-two of my books. I feel that exclusive . . , ,. , . .... ~ x ture. I feel that we are moving toward m-parenthood causes the child to fixate on . . . , , , . ,...... . ~ creasing self-reliance and I don t think wethis initial parenting figure and I think it ... , ,, . , ... . will need these props to sustain us.arrests the individual in a permanent one,, A. , . . , . , , Q. Do you see yourself as a prophet, asto-one relationship in which the individual o ^ y, ,-rr,F i  someone who is basically altruistic.' Or dohas very much difficulty in breaking away ,, , . A .cc .  you see yourself as a man who is trying toand I think all the suffering, all the pain, all J , .. . . ... , 4 . .. make a buck, make a living?the loneliness, that comes in our relationships which are so often painful, I think AThe first lermProPhet' reaUy makescomes as a direct result of the fact that we me very uncomfortable because that
start life traumatizing that initial one-tc* evokes the Past and that als0 evokes fai,h
one relationship. I see us breaking that up systemsand one of ,he lhin8s wc attemPso that people grow up developing relationvigorously to reject are philosophies and
ships, loving relationships with many theologies of the past which were so
people other than a specific one. Really, heavily based " faith0 say, sul;h andthrough our family system, we place all suchtherefore, accept it-that kind of an
our eggs in one basket. Ihe all-important aPP<*.) Ours is an attempt to approach
central character figures, the mother people reciprocally, and mating people to
. r n . i u i  * question because we, ourselves, are gropingand father. But 1 see us breaking away out H n br . 4 , i , , to the future. We ourselves are looking forof that, and I see we re moving toward vt , ,* answers. No one has a monopoly on universal life, wherever you connect,  . , .. .. . information on the future. I make projec-wherever you make a connection, that s a , , , . .. . . r tions based on plans, based on changingbrother or a sister or a mother or a lather , r , , .. , 0  values, based on upcoming technologiesor what-have-you. So I see us really mov, , r , . f .. . , , and resources and so on. So the world oftng toward universal parenthood, universal c^u.d to
Ramanan

---------------------------------------------------

continued from previous page
WRCTneeds
electrical engineers 
typists
DJ's
etc.
prophecy is completely out. There is 
nothing predicated on absolutism, on faith, 
on authoritarianism, and so on. And, as for 
making a buck, well, frankly, if 1 could 
make bucks in and out of my other acti" 
vities I'd be very happy. And it so happens, 
and it may be of interest to you, that I am 
very, very unfocused on money. I ought to 
be more because money can open up all 
kinds of things, including travel, which I 
love. Butin that sense again, I might think 
very twenty-first century in that I just 
don't focus on money. I believe very con" 
fidently that in the coming decades, 
certainly by the first quarter of the twentyfirst century, money really will have been 
phased out. And I can't wait for that day 
to happen. Maybe there are a lot of bucks 
to be made, but our Up-Winger group is a 
totally non-profit movement, totally non
profit. And whatever monies will be made 
will go directly in attempting to actuate 
and implement these ideas.
And there the interview ended. But 
FM.'s charm certainly did not. He com
plimented me on my choice of questions 
and autographed my copies of two of his 
books. A charmer indeed.
Yet I must say that his philosophy is 
hard to turn down. Tmean, here I am, a 
college student in Pittsburgh no less, just 
turned twenty-one, confronted with a tui
tion hike, a bunch of law school applica
tions, and Thomas Mann's Death in Venice. 
In my position, would you turn down a 
philosophy which says that Pittsburgh, 
money, government, and death will even
tually all be phased out? I think you'll 
agree that it has a certain appeal no matter 
who you are.
But I cannot say that it is necessarily an 
innovative appeal, nor one which is welldocumented. I somehow have the feeling 
that I saw it all on Star-Trek.
for more information stop by
WRCT 46B, Skibo
PAAR sets 
1978 objectives
Pittsburgh Action Against Rape, a mem
bership organization of women and men 
working to provide Allegheny County 
with comprehensive rape crisis services 
and a broad-based educational program, 
has been refunded for a second year by 
the Governor's Justice Commission. The 
second year funding will enable PAAR to 
continue examining and responding to the 
problem of sexual assault in our county 
as well - as to serve its victims.
During the past year Allegheny County 
has seen a rise in seemingly irrational and 
violent sexual assaults. Clearly, the crime,
its impact on victims, and the public's 
attitude toward rape are subjects of great 
concern.
In addition to PAAR's 24-hour hotline 
for rape victims and their families, PAAR's 
legal and medical advocacy program, 
crisis counseling, emergency housing, and 
transportation for sexual assault victims, 
PAAR operates an active educational pro
gram. In 1978 the primary objective of this 
program will be to educate the community 
regarding the myths and realities of rape, 
prevention and self defense, rights of vic
tims. and services available to victims. 
Special emphasis is being placed on 
schools; however, speakers will be available 
to talk to public and nrivate aeancies, 
businesses, and professional organizations. 
Speaker? are available in Fnplish and in 
Spanish.
These programs, as well as all the ser
vices of PAAR, can be obtained by calling 
the 24-hour hotline number, 765-2731.
VOICE YOUR DISCONTENT ABOUT 
HOUSING 
TO PRESIDENT CYERT
Are you tired of rising housing costs? 
overcrowding in dormitories? 
an unfair and one-sided contract? 
an unresponsive housing office?
Just sign the letter, cut it out, fold it, and 
drop it in the nearest mail box.
FUNDED AND SUPPORTED BY STUDENTS 
DORMITORY COUNCIL.
PRESIDENT CYERT
6th Floor Warner Hall 
Campus Mail
President Cyert:
I am dissatisfied with the present housing conditions, especially 
the rising housing costs, the overcrowded dormitories, the unfair and 
one-sided housing contract and the unresponsive housing office. I am 
tired of being ignored and I demand that the voice of students be 
heard.
Sincerely,
Id.#Rm.

---------------------------------------------------

TARJAN
Seeing 
the light
Responding to Duquesne Lights demand to use 25 per 
cent less electricity, CMU met the challenge and cut 
back 33 per cent. This is admirable, and people who have 
gone without lights, elevators, and electrical heaters set 
examples that others should follow,
The question that remains is whether these people who 
have cut back under pressure will continue to do so once 
the coal strike is settled and once the words "energy cri
sis  are out of the headlines.
Those pessimistic about human nature say that people 
will revert to their wasteful ways. They say that people 
have become desensitized to the word crisis and to the 
energy crisis in particular. The Cuban Missile, Nixon s 
Six, Middle East, Identity, Energy. . . theyve all been la
beled crises and the word has lost its impact. People are no 
longer impressed with the importance of conserving energy 
and are unconvinced that the situation is a serious one; for 
as long as the light goes on when the switch is flipped and as 
long as theres gas at the gas station, people will underesti
mate the energy problem and think theres nothing to worry 
about.
But this is the pessimists point of viewc The optimist 
has faith in peoples intelligence and common sense. The 
optimist beJieves that people realize Americas oil and coal 
resources are not infinite; that we cannot continue our pres
ent rate of consumption forever or even for much longer; 
that America, which hosts only 6 per cent of the worlds 
population yet consumes 33 per cent of the worlds energy 
production, might be doing something wrong.
The pessimist would counter easily and point out that 
Dr. Van Horn has attributed CMUs success in meeting Du
quesne Lights demand to University-controlled actions: 
using the 100-ton chiller to cool the computation center 
instead of using the 750-ton chiller; and readjusting the 
heating in Ski bo, GSIA, Hunt Library, and Warner Hall. 
Students and faculty and staff members probably flipped on 
lights without a second thought.
The optimist probably believes that individuals rose to 
the occasion and cut back, suffering in dim, cold silence.
Unfortunately for all of us, the pessimist is probably 
closer to tfre truth in his assessment of human nature. 
After the oil crisis four years ago, Americans quickly re
sumed their high levels of consumption; as soon as the 
gasoline lines were gone, so was peoples concernout of 
sight, out of mind.
But just because a thing cant be seen doesn't mean it 
isnt there. The settlement of the coal strike will be the start 
of other problems: inflation resulting from wage increases 
for miners-wage increases that the White House admits 
are inflationary-and increased costs to consumers to cover 
increased costs to coal companies.
These and other energy-related problems, now that 
they are here, will most probably be with us foreveror at 
least for the rest of our lifetimes. The past week of stringent 
and prudent use of energy at CMU should serve as a model 
for behavior in the future.
Its time that Americans recognized the magnitude of 
the situation and reacted accordingly. There is no better 
place than CMU, in its position of responsibility to the 
nearby community and to the rest of the nation, to show 
that energy consumption can be cut back when the situ
ation gets tough; and there are no better people than 
CMU students, in training to solve the problems of the 
modern world, to continue the example of sensible energy 
consumption.
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
All letters to the Editor must be 
signed. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The TARTAN does 
not print anonymous letters.
The TARTAN received no letters this week.
TARTAN
Volume 78February 28, 1978Number 21
fd tor-in-Chiel: Sherry Siegel
Managing i_Jitor: Tim Shields
Business Manager: Ellen J. Silverman
News Editor: Lennie Matjasko
Entertainment Editor: Casey Childs
' Folio Editor: K.A. Yaksich
Sports Editor: Miks Jochmann
. Photography Editor V.R.V. Ramanan
Assistant News Editor: Linda Aldridge
Photographv Staff: Skip B.a/eiton, Tad Dickens 
Production Assistants: Carol Green, Ken Vesio
Gfcorge Lecomte, Mark Segal
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578 
2111 or 2112 Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

President Richard M. Cyert 
on Defining the Educated PersonView From The Top
The definition of an educated person 
is important because the definition should 
serve as a framework or guide for curricula 
construction in our various colleges. Un
fortunately, there is no unique definition. 
The best we can probably do is to get a 
reasonable consensus among knowledge
able people.
In thinking about the problem of find
ing a definition, most of us are influenced 
by our background and our heritage. For 
many people there is a tendency to con
fuse knowledge with education. It is a 
little like the experience of the student 
who informs his family that he is becoming 
a statistician and is asked to prove it by 
reciting some statistics.
I do not think that a definition of an 
educated person in terms of what he or she 
knows is adequate. In my view, an edu
cated person is one who has acquired cer
tain skills: computational ability; language 
facility, both written and spoken; analyt
ical, capacity; and a sense of relevancy. The. 
latter is important so that the person can 
distinguish basic issues from superficial
ones. Obviously this list is not exhaustive.'
The distinction between having know
ledge and being educated may seem para
doxical. For too long, however, we in 
education have thought in terms of know
ing rather than using. I want to distinguish 
between the individual who may have some 
descriptive information about a work of 
literature, art, or music and the person who 
understands a basic theory that enables 
him to think clearly about the work of 
literature, art, or music. Putting it another 
way, the educated person has learned how 
to think clearly about a wide range of 
problems.
The educated person can be viewed as 
having stored within his brain a large infor
mation system. He is able when analyzing 
a problem to retrieve the relevant pieces of 
information and apply the information 
in standard or new ways to solve the prob
lem. Further, he is able to improve the 
information system through learning. The 
educated person must know how to learn 
new material. In particular, an educated 
person must know how to read so as to
learn. John Maynard Keynes was once 
quoted as saying that he had never been 
able to learn anything new from a book 
written in a foreign language. Unfortu
nately, most of us are unable to learn 
anything completely new by ourselves 
solely be reading. The skill of reading to 
learn is an important one for the educated 
person.
Another way of expressing the general 
approach that I am taking to defining the 
educated person is that the education 
shoiM make the person adaptable The 
educated person ia one wlio is able 10 
discern change and to modify his skills 
through learning to fit into the changed 
world.
In summary, I think we need to define 
the educated person in terms of operation
al knowledge. Those of us who are educa
tors need to think in terms of the various 
end uses to which the students will apply 
their knowledge. Thus I tend to define the 
iducated person in terms of processes he 
has learned rather than knowledge he has 
attained. The processes that I rank high on
the list are the ability to learn by ones 
self outside the classroom, particularly 
by reading and also by writing; the ability 
to adapt to changing situations; and the 
ability to apply knowledge to solve prob
lems. These processes along with certain 
skills enumerated above constitute my 
definition of the educated person. Of all 
these processes, perhaps, the most impor
tant one is the ability to learn outside the 
classroom. No university can give a person 
the education required to survive for a, 
lifetime. Because new knowledge is being 
developed at a rapid rate, any education 
will tend to become obsolete unless the 
person is capable of continuing to educate 
himself.
I realize that any definition is highly 
subjective and I do not pretend to have 
thought the problem through exhaustively. 
I hope that others, students as well as 
faculty, will attempt their own definitions. 
Through such dialogue we may all arrive 
closer to the truth and, after all, the real 
purpose of the university is to search for 
the truth.ANNOUNCEMENTS
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours for students during March and 
April. The first date for these meetings is 
Wednesday, March 8, between 3 and 5 PM 
in his office. Students who wish to meet 
individually with the President should 
telephone his office, 578-2200, for an 
appointment between 3 and 4 o'clock. 
The hour between 4 and 5 o'clock will 
be open for students who want to meet 
with the President but do not have an 
appointment. It is hoped that this new 
program will be of benefit to both the 
president and the students in allowing 
students direct contact with him.
Final Yearbook Sale: This is absolutely
the last chance to purchase a 1978 Thistle. 
Due to the great enthusiasm of the stu
dents, we are giving you a last chance to 
purchase your book, filled with lasting 
memories of CMU. The sale will be from 
Mon. March 6, to Fri. March 10, in Baker 
Hall lobby from 10 AM to 4 PM. Only the 
full $10 will be accepted. Those who have 
$5 outstanding towards their yearbook 
will be able to pay at this time also.
Praise the Lord! The entire campus com
munity is invited to join us 
in spirit filled praise and worship each 
Monday at the Oratory, located at 4040 
Bigelow Blvd. Charismatic prayer meeting 
is held from 8:15 to 9:45 PM followed by 
Fellowship and refreshments. Please join 
us. For further information please call 
681-3181 or 682-6482.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1 30 to 3:30 PM.
SYNTHESIS will be offering an INTRO
DUCTORY ASTROLOGY COURSE start
ing Wednesday February 23. The course 
will be eight weeks long and each class will 
run from 7:30 to 10:00 PM. The classes 
will cover how to erect a chart and basic 
astrological principles-planets, houses, and 
signs will be covered. These classes will be 
held at 17 Welsford St. in Oakland. Call 
6814736 to register-size of classes is 
limited.
PEER HELP. . . a place to go. People to
talk to. We are student volunteers who 
care. No matter how big or small your 
concern, we are here to help in any way we 
can, in the office or over the phone. 
Appointments are not necessary and all 
of our services are free, with total confid
entiality. Call 6219900 or 5782904; or 
drop by 150-A Baker Hall.
"A Personal View of Biological Physics''
will be the topic of a lecture by Dr. John
Nagle of the CMU Physics and Biological 
Sciences Departments. The lecture will be 
at 4:30 PM, Wednesday, March 1 in Sci
ence Hall 8427. Presented by the Society 
of Physics Students. All are welcome.
"Politics of Weapons Procurement" will be
discussed by Michael J. Brenner, Arms 
Control Center (University of Pittsburgh), 
on Thursday, March 2, 1978, at 2:30 PM 
in Scaife Hall 224. Sponsored by the
Social Science Department.
HYPNOTISM SEMINAR SPONSORED BY
PEER HELP CENTER. All interested in 
attending this presentation by Mr. G., a 
professional hypnotist, can join us in the 
Peer Help Center at 8 PM, Tuesday March 
14. Come early so you can get a seat.
Spend two weeks this summer on a wood
ed island in Ontario, learning about peace, 
Third World struggles, sexism, structural 
violence, and the New International Econ
omic Order. The 1978 session of the 
Grindstone School for Peace Research, 
Education and Action will be held from 
Aug. 5 to 19 on Grindstone Island, 105 
km south of Ottawa, Canada. Cost is $200 
for tuition, room and board. Co-operative
ly designed for university students, teach
ers, and activists, the school is an intensive 
course on major social issues. Twelve re
source people include university peace re
searchers, Native People's organizers, antinuclear power leaders. Write Co-ordinator
A, Grindstone School, Box 571, Stn. P, 
Toronto Ontario, Canada M5S 2TI for 
information and applications.
The Forbes Street Gallery will be open
ing a new show today featuring the works 
of Kenneth Botts, Connie DiPasquale, 
James Griglak and Kim Roush. The show 
consists of graphic designs, photography 
and mixed media. The Forbes Street 
Gallery is open Wednesday through Sun
day, from 12 to 4 PM, and again on Tues
day, Wednesday and Thursdy evenings 
from 7 to 9 PM. The Gallery is located 
on Forbes Ave. at the corner of Margaret 
Morrison Street.
EPISCOPAL PRAYER SERVICES will be
held in Skibo 39 Mondays and Wednesdays 
at noon, and Thursdays at 1:00 PM, 
during spring semester. DURING LENT, 
the Thursday 1:00 PM service will be a 
Eucharist, with Jonathan Appleyard, Epis
copal chaplain for CMU. Everyone is 
welcome! Call X2794 for information.
AB's TGIF committee in connection with
Food Service plans an evening out for 
March 3rd. See Gone With the Wind, then 
come to the Grill for theii half-price food 
specials from 12 midnight to 3 AM. You 
can listen or dance to the jazz sounds of 
Gibraltar with featured acts by mimer Nat 
Rich and magician Jon Brunelle.
The Amanda Marga Society of Pittsburgh
is offering two series of free classes. Both 
series will be on Introductory Yoga and 
Meditation and will be 6 weeks long. One 
series will begin Monday night, February 
20, at 7:30 and the other series will begin 
Tuesday night, February 21, also at 7:30. 
For further information call 6814736. 
Both classes will be held at 17 Welsford St., 
Oakland.
LENTEN RETREAT--The Roman Catholic
Chaplaincy is sponsoring a retreat at Mt. 
Saviour Benedictine Monastery, Elmira, 
New York from Friday, March 3, 1978 
through Sunday, March 5, 1978. The 
total cost-transportation, food, and lodging-is $40.00. This is an excellent oppor
tunity to experience a monastic commu
nity and prepare for the feast of Easter. 
Interested persons call 6813181 for fur
ther information.
PEER HELP... has students who are
trained to listen. So you won't hear any ad
vice. Just understanding and a reflection of 
your words that will help you recognize 
what is troubling you. Then you can make 
the decision with which you are comfor
table. If you do have a lot on your mind 
and don't know who to talk with, then 
call 621-9900 or 5782904... or drop by 
The Center, 150-A Baker Hall. We will 
listen and help you hear yourself.
TARTAN
Elections
March 13 at 5 PM in Skibo, room 13
Positions open:
Editor-in-chief 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Sports Editor 
Folio Editor 
Features Editor 
Photography Editor
Candidates for Editor-inChief must be full-time 
CMU students who 
have workea on the 
TARTAN for at least 
one semester. Candidates 
tor section editors must be 
full-time CMU students.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS_________
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Clatsffied rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
Saturday, Mdrch 4, 1978 there will be a
Casino-Disco night in the Morewood 
Gardens Recreation Room and Cafeteria 
beginning at 9:00 PM. Come and be 
prepared to dance your feet off and 
gamble for a chance to opt for fabu
lous prizes. Sponsored by Residence 
Life Programming.
The First Annual Press Old Newsboys
Benefit Bluegrass Concert will be held on 
Sunday afternoon, April 2, 1978 beginning 
at 2 o'clock in Antonian Theatre on the 
Campus of Carlow College at 3333 Fifth 
Avenue in the Oakland section of Pitts
burgh. This concert is sponsored by stu
dents at Carlow College and Press Old 
Newsboy Andy Russell.
All proceeds will go into the Press Old 
Newsboy Fund to provide financial sup
port for parents who cannot, for many 
varying reasons, pay for needed medical 
and surgical care for their children. Eighty 
percent of these funds go toward free 
care, ten percent for research and ten per
cent for equipment.
The admission for adults will be 
$3.00 and $1.00 for children under the age 
of 12 years. Donations from those who 
are unable to attend or desire tickets in 
advance may be sent to the following 
address:
Press Old Newsboys Benefit Bluegrass 
Concert
' Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh 
125 DeSoto Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy provides
an opportunity for daily Mass-Monday 
through Friday-in Skibo Room 39 at 
12:30.- There is no better practice during 
the season of Lent than attendance at 
Mass. Think about it!
Come to the Technical Careers Conference
on Saturday, March 4 in Skibo. Conference 
activities will last from 10:30 AM to 3:30 
PM and will include corporate exhibits 
and workshops for college and high school 
students. Free and open to the campus 
community. Sponsored by the CMU 
Society of Women Engineers.
scholarships awards prizes
Writers: You can win $100; $50; or $25
in cash and book prizes for best short 
story, humorous essay, or other short 
pieces between 250 and 1000 wordswith 
free copy of. winning College Contempor
aries Magazine for allif you enter the Col
legiate Creative Writing Contest whose 
deadline is April 25. For rules and official 
entry form, send self-addressed, stamped 
envelope to: International Publications, 
4747 Fountain Ave., Dept. C-3, Los 
Angeles, CA 90029.
Carnegie-Mellon University Press and the
Academy of American Poets will award a 
prize of $100 for the best poem or group 
of poems by an undergraduate. Manuscripts 
should be submitted no later than March 1, 
to Anne King in the Main English Office, 
BH 269. 1 to 5 poems may be submitted 
with xerox and carbon copies acceptable 
as manuscripts will not be returned.
An initiated member of any of the five
sororities at Carnegie Mellon University 
whose home is in Trumbull County Ohio 
and who had a 2.5 grade point average may 
apply for the Trumbull County Panhellenic 
Association Scholarship for 1978-79. 
Details and application forms are available 
in Dean Cox's office, Warner Hall 204. 
The deadline for submitting completed 
applications is April 1, 1978.
$3,500$2,500$2,000To be awarded
to the three top essayists by Friends of 
Animals, Inc.
The Regina Bauer Frankenberg Scholar
ship contest is aimed at "fostering interest 
in changing the relationship between 
humans and other life forms. Awards will 
be given to students who present the three 
best essays incorporating animal rights 
principles in support of a Federal legislative 
campaign. The subject of the essay is, 
"Why should Congress, on behalf of the 
people, the animals and the environment, 
ban the leg-hold trap?"
For further information and entry form, 
please write: Friends of Animals, Scholar
ship Committee, 11 West 60th Street, New 
York, NY 10023
classified
A lucrative reward will be given to anyone
who returns my lost 2 tone green and 
white hand knitted "tossle-style" winter 
cap. I lost it between Thursday, March 
16th and Friday, March 17. It is of 
GREAT sentimental value. Please contact 
Mark Lewis, 101 Warner Hall, from 9 to 
5 PM, Monday through Friday.
Alone and Pregnant? A confidential,
caring friend. Lifeline, 3413322. Free 
pregnancy testing available.
TypingProofreadingSelectric. Symbols,
Italics, Elite, Pica. Work Guaranteed. 
734-1331. No answer. 761-8584.
Anyone who witnessed the pedestrian-auto
accident on Margaret Morrison and Forbes, 
Wednesday, February 22, at 9:30 PM, 
please contact Cate Van Meter. 578-4837 
or Security.
Singers, dancers, comics--any talent. Now
you have your chance to show your talant. Please call Bobby Paul at 9214499. 
"Bobby Paul's Talent Show Case" Auditionsare February 28.
Iranian student needed to help American 
student with Farsi without charge. Call 
578-2199.
The Summer Studies Office of CarnegieMellon University is looking to hire a staff 
of resident counselors to coordinate and 
supervise a student-life program for high 
school students attending the Advanced 
Placement/Early Admission, Fine Arts 
Pre-College and Project Upward Bound 
Programs. Counselors must be energetic 
and willing to live and work closely with 
the programs' participants. Compensation 
includes room and board for the six-week 
session, June 26 through August 4. Ap
plications, along with the detailed job 
descriptions, are available in the Summer 
StudiesOffice, first floor of Warner HgJI. 
Babysitter wanted. Within walking dis
tance. Ages 8 and 10. Flexible hours. 
Call 683-5337.
FIND YOURSELF. Newly available syn
thetic word test helps with the hardest 
job of all, finding yourself. Send $1.00 
for exam plus instructions to Freelance 
Associates, Box 13065, Pittsburgh, PA, 
15243.
Original Wedding Bands, why buy mass
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 243-5458 Diamonds.

---------------------------------------------------

FEBRUARY 28, 1978/VOLUME ll/ISSUE 5: 
ANYTHING GOES
?E/IC m&OTl/lTIN^

---------------------------------------------------

page 14TARTANFebruary 28, 1978
by Philip Wad I er and Karen Stephen
copyright 1978 Phil Wadier and Karen Stephen
TARTAN FOUO
FEBRUARY 28,1978/ VOLUME II/ ISSUE 5: 
ANYTHING GOES
EDITOR: K.A. YAKSICH 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE 
ARTDIRECTOR: SCOTT POLLACK
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS:
LISA AMOWITZ
MORY BRENNER
KEVIN Q. BROWN
JOANNE VAVA BUITENKAMP
TONY CIOTOLI
ROSE DUBIN
ALYCE GOTTESMAN
DAN KLEIN
SHEILA MELFE
DAVID P. MONGEAU
KAREN JOY RAVETS
JOHN ROSE
NANCY M.SEUS
KAREN STEPHEN
PHILIP WADLER
LAURA WILKINS
COVER DESIGN: SCOTT POLLACK
The Red Baron had already shot the World War 
One Flying Ace down five times that afternoon. 
Snoopy finally had the Kraut bastard lined up in 
his sights when the stupid round-headed kid 
called him to dinner and broke his concentration. 
He was shot down again. So ... .
Afterward, Toto was pretty uptight (you 
would be too if youd just been inter-dimensionally 
transported by magic slippers). He had a headache 
and Dorothy playing sweetness and light to 
Aunty Em was more than he could take just then. 
Also, he was hungry. So ... .
Lassie was doing just fine in the woods with a 
cocker spaniel bitch, when Timmie came along 
and wallopped him good for doing that 
naughty thing. So ... .
They rushed Charlie Brown to the hospital to 
be treated for rabies. Snoopy, Dr. Kildaire said, 
was foaming at the mouth suspiciously.
As it happened, Snoopy and Lassie got placed 
in the same cage at the dog pound. (Toto escaped 
to terrorize the Kansas countryside.) They 
swapped their stories and rolled on the floor with 
laughter. Suddenly, a small dog spoke up from 
the corner.
Gee, guys, said Benji, that doesnt sound 
very nice to me.
So they ate him.
Meanwhile, back at the ranch-style hospital, 
Dr. Kildaire brought in Marcus Welby and Joe 
Gannon to consult. A rash of similar cases had 
broken out all over the nation. Everywhere, faith
ful poochies were biting the pudgy little fingers 
that fed them.
They called in the National Guard. They called 
in SWAT. Starsky shot a deranged Sandy (his 
blank eyeballs rolling as Hutch rushed Annie to 
the hospital. It didnt look like she would make 
it; they gave her one of Kojaks lollipops to cheer 
her up.
Dennis bit Ruff back.
Paramedics Gage and DeSoto treated Dondi 
Wills for shock while Mannix, Ironside and 
Rockford tracked down Queenies hiding place.
Sam, the Bionic Dog, jealous of whom else 
Steve Austin was recharging with his AC/DC 
adaptor, bit off Farrah Fawcett-Majors face.
Checkers inflamed Nixons phlebitis.
Only Krypto, being a fellow survivor of the 
planet Krypton, had the power to overcome 
Supermans invulnerability. Sorry, Lois.
The crew of sound stage 7, worried, searched 
sound stage 8. There they found Fred, The Puppy 
Chow Puppy, not chowing down puppy chow at 
all. Instead, he was laying back picking his teeth 
with the last rib bone of Morris the Cat.
Back at the dog pound, Snoopy and Lassie 
werent feeling so well.
The populace was in a panic. They appealed to 
God. They appealed to the President. They 
appealed to Walter Cronkite. They appealed to 
the Force. They appealed to Exxon. They 
appealed to buttons with smiles on them that say 
Have a Nice Day.To one and all they screamed, 
We appeal to you!
Henny Youngman screamed back, No you 
dont!
At last, the answer to the appeal came.
It wasnt ESP. It wasnt a close encounter of 
the third kind. It wasnt astrology. It wasnt 
Billy Graham. It wasnt the Reverend Sun Myung 
Moon. It wasnt the Second Coming. Speaking of 
which, it wasnt the Sexual Revolution, either. 
It wasnt Congress. It wasnt the Special Prose
cutors Office. It wasnt est. It wasnt transactional analysis. It wasnt TM. It wasnt a pet rock.
Actually, it wasnt anything.
3ack at the dog pound, the autopsy on Snoopy 
and Lassie revealed that they died of a sudden 
attack of cancer, caused by massive accumula
tions of saccharine. The attendant, Radar OReilly, 
remembered the missing Benji, and put two minus 
>ne together.
All over, dogs were dropping like flies. Just as 
the Martians had fallen to the microbes, so the 
errant poochies fell to the forces of sweetness 
and light. Once again, Man got off the hook by 
sitting still (read: paralyzed) and letting nature 
take its course. Admit it: if you were a dog, could 
you resist taking a bite of Donnies or Maries leg?
A week later, the crisis was over.
A wounded populace forgave its deceased 
canine citizens. Some people wondered what had 
happened, and why, but were soon caught up in 
the national mourning. It was like when Elvis died 
all over again, only better.
Everyone had forgotten all about it by the time 
Rodney Allen Rippy was found munching on 
something that was decidedly not a Jumbo 
Jack ....
BITCH, BITCH, BITCHNows your chance to 
do it. The next regular FOLIO will feature 
Editorials That Never Appeared in Print. 
Sound off about truth, justice, hamburger crum
bles, the Civil War, or your favorite pet peeve. 
We can use editorial cartoons, too. Its as easy 
as leaving your typed copy at the Skibo desk or 
the TARTAN office by noon on Monday, March 
6. Lift your voices and your pen.

---------------------------------------------------

February 28, 1978TARTAN-page 15
A new man gets on now, on his arm tatooed mom,
His case is much bigger, its inscription reads bomb.
The others ignore him, they dont even cough,
But then one stop later the odd man got off.
Still no one saicj nothing, not one little crack,
Yet Im sure they all noticed his case in the rack.
Then one second later, just the blink of an eye,
There were twenty odd people round this old white haired guy. 
Some seemed uncertain of this unplanned event,
Til someone yelled out, Thats our new president!
He tried to be friendly, like peas in a pod,
The people all loved him, and thought he was God.
They were all going crazy, and in fact throwing fits.
But the next thing you knew, we were all blown to bits.
The moral I think Ive made perfectly plain,
But if you dont get it, Ill say it again.
Whether in suits, or in ripped patched blue jeans,
Were exactly the same when were just smithereens.
EMPLOYER APPLICATION

by John Rose
CORPORATE
Corporate name1RS Tax No.
Address St. CityZip Phone Number
Date of IncorporationPlace of Incorporation
Parent Corporation Name Address
Merged Yes__ No__ If yes, no. of subsidaries
Have your Liabilities ever exceeded your assets? If yes, explain
List any industrial accidents in the last ten years
Are you an equal opportunity employer?
Do you hire without regard to race, color, creed, religion, place of origin, citizenship, or competency? Yes__ No ___
What kind of people are you looking for?
What is your best offer? $- - 0,000 (U.S. dollars only)
No. paid sick days/wk*No. days paid vacation/wk.
EDUCATION
List percentage of work force
PhD. M.S. B.S.H.S. G.S. Illiterate
MILITARY SERVICE
No. Contracts Let: Arms Services Other
Total Value $----------------K Toxic discharge?
Describe current secret projects (use separate sheets if necessary) _______
COMMUTER EXPRESS
by Mory Brenner
We got right on board, to come home from the game, 
Yet we were so different, and they were the same. 
You see we were young, or just kids as they say,
And they were all businessmen, coming home for the day. 
They all had their suits on, not one was a mess.
You see, we were riding the commuter express. 
When one asked a question, their mind said who cares? 
And they sat there in boredom, with self centered stares. 
And answer came back although not with much zeal,
For no one cared nothing save their own special deal. 
They all just sat spell-bound,-with blank-looking faces, 
While clutching for life, to their Samsonite cases.
The coldness was rampant, and spreading like venom-,
I felt like an outcast, in my ripped, patched blue denim.

---------------------------------------------------

page 16T ART ANFebruary 28,1978
City Song
by Karen Joy
I hear the music of the city: 
The song of the miller,
The cry of the whores;
Alto on streets,
Tenor indoors.
The laughter of pigeons, 
Nestling on flats.
The whine of the bakers 
Fast moving cat.
Joining the noise 
Of drivers in cars.
Joining the sobs 
Of drinkers in bars.
And riot sounds,
Those hard, cruel facts, 
Protesters who 
The law answers back.
I hear the city chanting. 
Its a maddening thing, 
Evil to hear,
For chaos cant sing.
EMPLOYER RECORD 
Union
No. Members? 
Settlement 
Collective bargaining 
Strike date:
Local No.
Issue?
AFL-CIO?YesNo
Binding arbitration
From --------19: To-----------19
Pinkertons
T otal Cost
REFERENCES (at least 3 of 5 in field of business; do not list subsidiaries)
Name AddressBusiness% Market
Do you employ any of my relatives?Yes No
If no, why not?

---------------------------------------------------

February 28, 1978TARTANpage 17
The Creative Person
by Frederic Lapoitz
Most creative productions are contributed by 
a small minority of people who haye certain 
characteristics. Creativity is frequently noticed 
during childhood. For example, the second 
grader who seems turned off by the teacher, ig
noring routine rules and instructions, may be gen
uinely creative. Then again, he may be genuinely 
stupid. However, the rigid structure of an author
itarian environment can create motivation prob
lems for a second grader trying to cope with sur
face integrals and La Placian transforms.
Let us consider some innate qualities of the 
creative person. He or she is self-movtivated 
unlike the plethora of dullards who let their 
fingers lay on hot stoves. He is like a child who 
continues to lace and unlace his shoes once he 
has joyfully discovered how. The joy of dis
covery provides an impetus for further creativity. 
He is like a college freshman who continues to 
lace and unlace his shoes during his leisure time.
As with any other activity, creativity shows 
individual differences; for example, scientists, 
particularly, have certain characteristics not 
shared by artists, in addition to good looks and 
charm. However, we do find that most creative 
people do have a number of common character
istics:
1 )Creative talent is evidenced at an early age.
2)Creative people are less conventional.
3)Creative people view authority as convential 
rather than absolute.
4)Creative people eat yogurt.
We observe that creativity is not necessarily mea
sured by having a high IQ although the consump
tion of yogurt is a rather moot point. Creative 
people are better distinguished by their interests 
and inner drives, although many creative people 
are, naturally, very intelligent and can count 
past 40.
What about emotional stability? Im glad you 
asked that. Many creative people are notorious 
for their personal behavior (ie. VanGogh, Emile 
Zola, Mick Jagger, Oral Roberts, Carl Gentile) 
but consider this point. These people may not be 
any more neurotic than the rest of us but appear 
so since they simply live or reveal their inadequa
cies in public.
We should note that creative people are often 
compensating for somethingcreative expressions 
are often born from inner turmoil, subconscious 
thoughts, sexual desires or the forthcoming car 
payment. Often to his frustration, the creative 
person finds his innovations have difficulty in 
gaining acceptance: the glass spitoon, gas prices, 
LSD, etc.
The fundamental lesson to be learned from all 
this is that the creative person is just copying 
something in a new and different way.
Having read this I now ask you to take the 
Creative Person Test. Its a simple test requiring 
a few seconds of your time. Try to select the 
most creative answer.
What is this?
a)a line
b)an upside down 1
c)a very skinny circle
d)space between Ali McGraws teeth
ejan ethyl molecule with no carbon atoms
If you dont like any of the responses and feel 
you can be more creative, please submit sub
missions c/o What is this? Contest 
THE TARTAN
Illustration by Alyce Gottesman
crocodile tears
by Karen Joy
Silver fish in silver pool,
Precious reflection of the light,
Sun jewel of the heaven.
Murky mind in murky mud,
Clever reptile predator,
Tyrant of the deep bog.
Lightening flash,
Mortality rate of one,
Silver fish in silver pool . ..
Au Crayon
by K.A.Yaksich
Oh Humble Vessel of Entangled Line!
Led by your No.2 Soft charm,
I have followed you to the Depths of '"'espair 
And risen upward on Wings of Triumph.
From your entrails run Princes and Paupers,
The gamut of Life,
To be both seen and heard 
And when I am through,
I have but a portfolio of your trails,
For, strangely enough, (in our loud Society) 
When you have exhausted your Self 
And have no more to say,
You 
Go.
LUVLLINE, CMU Addendum:
CSWhen the chemistrys right, its right. Thanks 
for last night. JS*
CORRECTION: The photo of Hameiachlag Hall 
in last weeks FOLIO was erroneously left un
credited. That photography was done by John 
Rose.
DO YOU HAVE AN EPIC? FOLIO is in quest of 
material suitable for 4-page issues. Imagine your
self as a literary giant among men, wielding vour 
mighty pen. 810 typed pages will enable you to 
taste the immortality of the printed page. Sub
missions gratefully accepted at the Skibo desk 
or the TARTAN office any time.

---------------------------------------------------

page 18T ART ANFebruary 28,1978
INCREDIBLE HACKERY
by Kevin Q. Brown
1. Introduction
This work presents an aspect of creativity 
which does not often receive the respect and due 
notice that it deserves. Indeed, in public it is 
shunned with a passion and in private is generally 
only whispered amidst snickers and giggles. What 
is it? Its not sex, or death, or even tax evasion. 
In fact, its so poorly understood that most 
people wouldnt even recognize it if they saw it. 
Furthermore, many people routinely practice 
it without even knowing it! This is the pheno
menon of INCREDIBLE HACKERY.
What is Incredible Hackery? It has nothing to 
do with actual physical hacking or mutilation of 
bodily parts. Instead, it refers to hacking and mu
tilation of computer programs (which for some 
people are as near and dear as bodily parts). The 
concept is probably best described in the words 
of an anonymous computer scientist: Some 
people seem to have a natural ability to take a 
beautiful, well-written program (or the oppor
tunity to write one) and then turn it into a 
hideous piece of junk!
It is believed by the author that it takes 
genuine talent to produce something truly vile 
and disgusting. Indeed, in areas other than com
puter science much progress has been made to 
utilize the talents available. Three of the more 
notable successes are television commercials, 
instructions for income tax, and CMU housing. 
But Incredible Hackery has the potential for out
stripping even these achievements.
2. An Example
To provide further motivation and to give 
reader a more concrete grasp of what Incredible 
Hackery is all about, an example will now be 
given. This is one of the authors favorites from
ihe Cookbook of Grotesque Hackery:
HACK No. 47
INTEGER BOGUS(2)
BOGUS(1) = 342000000147 
BOGUS(2) = BOGUS(l)
CALL SUB(BOGUS)
STOP
END
SUBROUTINE SUB(BOGUS) 
INTEGER N 
N = 3
TYPE 100, N
100 FORMAT(1X,l5)
N = BOGUS(1)
RETURN
END
This program is doubly vile and disgusting. First, 
it is written in FORTRAN. But secondly, it 
abuses FORTRAN in terrible and obscene ways 
which the author cannot bear to describe. (Thus 
the reader will have to discover for himself/ 
herself exactly what the program does.)
3. Hack Attacks
Many of historys major achievements started 
as great inspirations of the person responsible. 
Incredible Hackery has an analogous mechanism 
the hack attack.
' (Continued on page 35)
by Nancy M. Seus
Im the only one here but I cant 
tear myself away.
I can sit and stare for hours 
on end.
There are better things to do 
But my eyes remain entranced 
as my mind goes off and wanders 
mingling mine with timeless dreams.
Those pleasant painted scenes 
of sand castles 
and wind blown grass 
fade then reappear at whim.
I want to reach out 
to touch.
But when I do 
I awaken once again.
It must be a blessing in disguise 
for my imperfect hands might 
mangle or destroy that flawlessness 
and only I would be to blame.

---------------------------------------------------

February 28, 1978TARTANpage 19
LIONS 3,..
by Daniel Klein
What game you playing, girl?
First cool and distant, then slowly warm, 
Briefly hot, next warm then sudden ice. 
And now again strangely warm,
But youre cool, oh so cool.
What game you playing, girl?
In darkest night you were my sun,
In winters cold, my fire.
Yet in despairs unfathomed depths,
You scorned me for another.
What game ARE you playing?
And who wrote these rules?
How do I play
Is t parry or riposte,
Or just all in my mind?
Im swirling, jumbling, tumbling, 
crumbling around myself.
Gather me up .. .
Or dont  just dont play games,
Cause I dont know the score.
by Tony Ci otoli
The night is dark 
And the air is cold 
The stars are covered 
By a blanket of gray.
The snow falls slowly 
But never stops 
And my mind wanders 
Through memories and thoughts,
The happiness and sorrow 
That Ive been through.
The triumphs and failures 
My life has seen 
Pass vividly and new 
Like some wild dream.
Yesterday happened 
Five minutes ago 
My life a few short hours.
If I could live those times again 
To carry out all the plans that I made. 
But all these things are done in my mind 
Time and space mean nothing there. 
Horse carts and jets rest side by side 
With the pictures and people 
that dwell in my mind.
Friend,' few things in this world bother me. 
Despite the pollution, corruption, malice and vice 
abounding in this worldblatantly calling atten
tion to themselvesI remain relatively unruffled; 
however, one little word could possibly offend. 
That word, friend, is the word anonymous. 
Perhaps you ask, Why? Perhaps you think 
only a peurile imbecile would be upset by such 
a word. Evidently you have not considered the 
irritating plight created by this seemingly in
nocuous noun. To understand what I am talking 
about, consider this account from my life.
As a child I thought that anonymous was 
surely the pseudonym of some popular and gift
ed author. His work appeared in pamphlets, 
newspapers, magazines, and bulky collections 
of literary classicsit ranged from limericks to 
epics, epithets to testaments. As I grew to young 
manhood, I fully anticipated the production of 
an anthology of this mans best works. But then 
one day, while I was browsing through the dic
tionary, I learned the sordid truth. Oh, the 
disillusions of youth, my friend! Imagine. With 
the gas lamp dimmed, I sat in my easy chair, with 
a stein of ale in on hand and a good book in 
the other. My belly shakes with laughter at the 
merry jest I have read. Reading on I expect to 
discover the identity of this creative genius and 
tip my hat, so to speak, acknowledging him 
a master of wit and words. Nay! I discover that 
the man is a knave, a lecher, a buffoon, a coward 
and an Anonymous! The ale rumbles in my 
stomach.
Friend, for the sake of people like me, desist 
in such a practice. Let us take pride in our 
undertakings. Let us say, Yes! That is my name 
and this is what I have written. And because I 
have written this, I stand behind it a full 200%!
Anonymous
Dispelling a Myth
by Laura Wilkins
Mary had a little lamb,
Its fleece was white as snow.
But the stupid animal was used in a 
radioactive experiment,
And now its fleece does glow.
The lamb became immortal then;
Its lived since days of yore.
And that is how The Golden Fleece
Became part of Grecian lore.
The truth, of course (to some) is known,
But all should be acquainted.
When Mary had a little lamb 
Her husband surely fainted.

---------------------------------------------------

page 20TARTANFebruary 28, 1978
COOP
by David P. Mongeau
You ate my oranges while I 
slept, and I am sure you smiled 
at me when you broke the sections open 
and knew that you loved me.
Oranges are mine, warm and waxy, 
melting overnight in the palm 
of the bowl. Set on the kitchen 
counter like before and again.
I woke tasting the juicy seeds 
and the pulp I cannot swallow.
You used to cut your nails too short 
to break the citrus skin. When did 
you let them grow and think I would share 
more than sickness and health? I hope 
that the acid stung your eye sour.
You left a note on the pillow 
that saidwhat elseI love you.
But .I love oranges. They are all 
that are mine.CALL
x 2112
Illustration by Sheila MelfeEpitaph I
by Karen Ann Yaksich
Whither Kipling?
Iambic Pentameter is extinct,
As cold and mildewed as Poes raven 
Heralding Nevermore and pushing 160.
Like the poets before it 
The Rhyming Couplet is dead.
The Limerick and Sonnet have gone the way of 
Tenneyson, Frost, and Dickens,
While none remember the magical Meter of 
Nash and Carroll, and Emily Dickenson was the 
Unwilling Prophetess of 
The End.
The spectre of Carl Sandburg seems to point 
An accusing finger.
Murderer! he intones in an icy and 
Vindictive voice.
And i/the modern poet 
Undeserving of capitals 
Can say naught but hang my head and weep 
In
0 o o o o
by Nancy M. Seus
When I was young I had thoughts 
to change the world.
Fantasies of life perfected 
ran rampant through my mind 
and common sense dismissed itself*
1 never knew Id grow up 
and get married
and have children 
and grow old 
as my parents did.
And now its too late to change the world 
for the world has changed me.

---------------------------------------------------

__________________ENTERTAINMENT
Mime, music and magic at Grill
by Joan Livitski
Nat Ritch just graduated from CMU's 
drama department in '77, but he's a veter
an when it comes to having experience in 
his craft. While a student here, he had parts
O in plays still remembered by many present 
students.
But his desire to do mime sought an 
outlet, and with his list of credits he had 
little trouble finding one. Much of his early 
performing was done right here on campus.
A man of many media, Nat has acted in 
several industrial films as well as having 
made a TV commercial for a radio sta^ tion. But coming back to mime, he found 
Pittsburgh's own Park Players afforded him 
the chance to experiment with various 
tools, one of which was mime. He per
formed in Tuesday, a mime show that was 
the creation of Jewel Walker, a former 
CMU faculty member, and is looking for
ward to doing Circus, another of Profes
sor Walker's works, with the City Players 
-j this coming summer.
Though deeply involved in the craft of 
mime now, Nat confesses it wasn't always 
so. "I came from a small suburb town 
called Media. There wasn't a lot of drama, 
let alone mime...what surprises me some
times is that five years ago I didn't even 
know what the word mime was and today 
under the excellent coaching of Jewel 
I'm able to perform for people an art 
which is very recent to me."
Nat will be appearing on campus on the 
evening of March 3rd with Jon Brunelle.
Though Jon Brunelle is a magician, he's 
a little comedian too. His magic is meant
The members of Gibraltar
to entertain and bedazzle whether he's 
doing traditional magic tricks (i.e. making 
objects materialize and vanish or rejoining 
cut pieces of rope) or getting the audience 
to particpate in loosely based mental tele
pathy stunts.
Mr. Brunelle manipulates cards, coins, 
and eggs to the mystification of the audi
ence. Not only does he avoid slips that 
could give clues as to the "howto's" of 
his tricks, but remaining true to his art, he 
is steadfast against revealing any trade 
secrets.
Jon has performed at various universi
ties in the area, including Pitt, Duquesne,
Chatham, and CMU where he came in '76. 
Club engagements have consisted of show
ings at the Decade, The Portfolio, and 
La Bastille.
Mr. Brunelle has served CMU's Drama 
Department as consultant for the studio 
plays: Make Your Point and last year's 
Beauty and the Beast.
Recognized by the peers of his pro
fession, he was awarded second place for 
Stage Performance at the Columbus 
MagiFest in '77 as well as being voted 
Magician of the Year, 1977, by the Inter
national Brotherhood of Magicians, Tampa 
Ring 13.
Patti Smith shows power
A concert review 
Artist: Patti Smith
by David Doremus
How can one describe Patti Smith in 
concert? She dances like a manic Bob 
Marley, hair and limbs flying in all possible 
directions, throwing herself into her songs, 
with an intensity and passion that could be 
a type of religious ecstasy or sexual frenzy 
or, most likely, some combination of both. 
Her personality is simply staggering 
whether she is telling a heckler "F- - you 
ihen, you can just take your money and 
split, or digging up the words and notes 
of Aint It Strange from some mysterious 
point deep inside her and spewing them 
out, hunched over the microphone, as if 
she were being driven by some force be
yond her control.
Her emotional commitment to the mu
sic is undoubtable and unavoidable, even 
when she tells the audience that she's 
got to get her music on the radio, it is 
impossible to accuse her of commerciality. 
She believes in what she's doing and if she 
ever gels popular, which is doubtful in a
' 11*  ii IN till! i 'it Mrllllmusical inanities to any music with gutts. it 
will be Dii her own terms not those ol 
money hungry Friday program directors 
and record company executives !
Patti Smith is as strong and moving a 
performer as 1 have ever seen. She easily 
ranks wifli Springstein, Capt. Beefheart, 
and Peter Gabriel as one of the great rock 
singers of the last five years and puts the 
lukewarm posings of Peter Frampton and 
Fleetwood Mack to shame. A Patti Smith 
concert leaves one emotionally and phy^ 
ically drained, groping to re-establish con
tact with the reality of side walks and 
streetlights outside the theatre.
The show was beautifully orchestrated. 
Ms. Smith opened with Horses, went into
Kimberly, old familiar songs to most of the 
crowd, then proceeded to knock everyone 
over with new material.
Her energy seemed to grow with every 
song. The dancing became more frantic, 
she began trading vocals widi guitarist 
Lenny Kaye and soon after they began 
dancing around each other, sparring 
physically in ever more intensive move
ments. The climax came during Ain't It 
Strange with the two of them dueling over 
Kaye s guitar until Patti finally got it away 
from him and began to torture the strings, 
bending and twisting them in ways no 
guitar maker could envision.
The song ended with Kaye reposessing 
his instrument and ripping out a solo while 
flat on the stage, working up into a wrest
lers bridge at the most emotional moments. 
Aint It Strange mixed directly into Gloria 
and at the line "Jesus died tor some
body's sins but not mine," the crowd 
surged to its collective feet.
If the preceeding description conveys 
some slight idea of how affecting this 
show was, multiply that by ten and the re
sult may approach what actually went on. 
Do not think, however, that this was a 
vvfect show. It was not, by any means.
(Hit'fa got the biggest reaction, possibly 
oecausevit was the most familiar, and 'lie 
new songs received only scattered applause. 
The audience seemed for the most part 
puzzled by new material and Patti summed 
it up beautifully by replying to shouts foi
B.cak It Up and Free Reolev saying 
 You re all behind. Unfortunately, too 
true.
Perhaps this is unfair to those who 
attended. There were some who knew her 
music and loved her. the rest may have 
just been too stunned by the force of the 
performance to respond in any way or per
haps they were all drugged. In any case, 
the crowd was ambivalent and it hurt the 
show.
A far greater problem was the poor 
quality of the sound. At the loudest and 
most intense moments the vocals and gui
tar, the most important parts of the band, 
would vanish mysteriously and all that 
could be heard was the pounding of bass 
and drums. It was a very strange feeling 
indeed to see Patti singing her lungs out 
into the mike, close enough for lip-reading, 
or Lenny Kaye down on his knees beating 
on his guitar strings, in fact breaking them 
at one point, and not hearing any sound 
other than bass guitar and amorphous 
screeching.
Despite these problems the concert 
went off rather well. The sheer energy, 
the raw power, if you will pardon the term, 
generated by Patti Smith and Lenny Kaye 
overcame all setbacks. The band's playing 
was direct, powerful, almost brutal and 
Patti's vocals, when they were audible, 
were incredible.
It was enough to make one think that 
if instead of Youngstown it had been New 
York, instead of a sparse house , the hall 
had been packed, instead of a languid 
audience, and poor sound , there had been 
energy and a clean balance, the impact of 
the music would have been almost terrify
ing. It was a good show. It could have 
been great.
Jon Brunelle
Gibraltar will also be appearing. Gibral
tar is a jazz music combo which is formed 
for the concert audience, rather than the 
night club "partiers." The music of the 
young quartet is in the vein of young per
formers such as Herbie Hancock, Grover 
Washington, Chick Corea and Stanley 
Clark, yet the Gibraltar music has its share 
of sounds from such rooted greats as Miles 
Davis, Les McCann and Ramsey Lewis.
The jazz sound is for the concert audi
ence which loves the motion and emotion 
without suffering from a lack of techni
que. The pulse and spirit of Gibraltar is in 
musicians who prefer to fly in concert than 
to compete with drinkers and club manag
ers, making their music an undamaged 
expression of artistic joys.
TGIF's Evening Out will be held in the 
Grill. It is sponsored by AB and Food 
Service.
Cousteau's son 
will visit CMU
by Gary R. Fabian
On March 6, 1978, Jean-Michel Cous
teau, elder son of the famed ocean ex
plorer Jacques-Yves Cousteau, will speak 
on the subject of Marine Architecture and 
Design in Nature. This new field of archi
tecture deals with structures that man 
builds, on, near, or under water. Through 
X-ray photography Cousteau and his 
associates have observed the delicate and 
sophisticated designs that give sea shells 
their great strength and durability.
Among the famous men Cousteau has 
worked with in past projects are: Edouard 
Albert, James Aitken, Francois R. Brenot, 
and Richard C. Murphy.
This lecture will be of special interest 
to design and architecture majors, but 
everyone will be able to benefit from 
Couteau's vast experiences in many diver
sified fields.
Cousteau has been elected to the "Ordre 
National des Architectes" which is the 
French counterpart of The American 
Institute of Architects.
The lecture is funded by the Student 
Activities fee and presented by AB Lec
tures and Special Events Committee. All 
students and faculty are welcome to 
attend.
The event is set for March b, in tjie 
Skibo Ballroom at 8:00 PM.

---------------------------------------------------

page 22-TARTAN-February 28, 1978
Creativity grows with games
A book review
Book: Creative Growth Games 
Author: Eugene Raudsepp 
Publisher: Harvest Book
by Joan Livitski
In the final section of the book, Crea
tive Growth Games, there appears a state
ment that struck me as especially written 
for CMU students: "The person with a
detailed knowledge of his special field or 
interest limits his creativity by the narrow
ness of his focus." True, the author goes 
on to admit that one must also have an in
timate knowledge of the fundamental con
cepts and principles within one's spec
ialization, but so much can be gained by 
"breaking set" and getting outside of the 
problem.
New insight and perspective can be got
ten in analyzing and pinpointing the pro
blem as well as hunting for viable alterna
tives. By expanding one's horizons, one 
opens, up new avenues of possible solu
tions. Often it is just the unorthodox idea 
that sets the wheels back in motion.
On just picking up Creative Growth 
Games, I hesitantly leafed through it, not 
anxious to start. I was sure it was just 
another "test your IQ" or puzzle book, 
and my prior experience has been to ques
tion the reason for wasting the paper on 
trivia when printing costs are escalating. 
Speculating whether the games were going 
to be trite and silly or overly complex as 
the author plotted subtle, unreasonable 
clues to see how many readers he could 
drive to suicide, I concluded that I might as 
well open the book and start reading.
I think I did it out of fear. Visualizing 
tabulating demerits, I was certain the first 
game dealt with procrastination. Instead
I hit upon a page with nearly a half-dozen 
sayings, fcxpecting words of wisdom about 
as profound as "Love means never...", well 
you know the rest, I actually found myself 
re-reading and giving them thought.
Now my curiosity was aroused. I rea
lized this was one "game" book that I 
wanted to play with, to understand. If 
you're one of those people who has the 
habit of ignoring the introductions because 
they're only the author bragging or apolo
gizing, don't pass this one by. Its quite a 
bit different.
The hypothesis put forth here is more 
than mere justification for the books con
tent. What we are given is a concise and 
clear psychological dissertation as to why 
most adults conform to societies norms, 
deny our creative potential, and put limit
ations on our thought processes that only 
prevents us from performing at full cap
acity.
Mr. Eugene Raudsepp may idealize the 
benefits of his "comprehensive training 
program", but there's definitely enough 
merit to what he says so that he's not being 
unrealistic, just optomistic. Being Pres
ident of Princeton Creative Research, Inc., 
an organization devoted to the advance
ment of creative problem solving and dec
ision making in industry, business, educa
tion, and other organizations, and having 
authored five books and hundreds of 
articles along with receiving several awards 
for original research, one can see why he 
has such a positive outlook on life.
Most adults are accused of conforming 
to the point where we distrust the unusual 
modes of thought and fantasy making, be
coming highly judgemental. Supporting 
his theory is Jean Piaget, a famous French 
psychologist, who states "If you want to
be creative, stay in part a child, with the 
creativity and invention that characterizes 
children before they are deformed by 
adult society."
Children are highly sensitive to their 
environment. They react spontaneously 
to things of curiosity, value new discoveries 
especially between seemingly unrelated 
things, and are concerned with intricate 
details. As Mr. Raudsepp puts it, children 
possess "the rapt sense of wonder., "the 
sheer poetic intensity of living."
Though he proposes that adults recap
ture this zest only in their dreams, one 
shouldn't resign himself to a life of dull 
gloom. It's just a matter of removing some 
of the blocks that have submerged our 
creative ways.
Raudsepp feels "there has scarcely been 
a time when we were as insecure as we are 
today" and that this "problem escalation" 
will only increase as time goes on. He sees
a return to a creative thought process as 
the solution. Imagination opens up altern
atives that we'd otherwise pass by. This 
allows us to participate in the changes 
taking place by giving us confidence in 
the belief that we can indeed solve or deal 
with the crisis we face.
You may wonder why the theory wasn't 
just stated, supported, and the essay con
cluded and sent to Psychology Today. The 
reasoning is that no learning would take 
place as "imagination and creativity thrive 
on exercise." As an old Oriental proverb 
states: "I listen and forget/ I read and un
derstand,/ I see and remember,/ I do and I 
learn."
The active participation reinforces the 
theory, but the "tests" wili take some get
ting used to for most CMU students. The 
exercises are not to be rushed through, 
there are not one "right" answers, you are 
encouraged to ponder before going on,
there's no penalty for mistakes, and there's 
no competition. The games are designed to 
encourage you to think in new patterns, to 
experiment, and provide instant feedback 
on your progression.
At a school where specialization is not 
only encouraged, but often demanded, 
Creative Growth Games can provide an 
outlet without a heavy time requirement. 
Each of the 75 exercises takes but a few 
well spent minutes to complete.
Whether you buy the theory put forth 
by Eugene Raudsepp and Mead and Her
bert Otto, that "creativity is vital to an 
individuals's psychological health" and that 
"we all use only a fraction of our pot~ 
ential," is up to you. But if you do buy the 
book, you may just see your problem sol
ving techniques and assumptions as far 
more conventional than you'd care to 
admit, until you do a few more of the re
maining games.

---------------------------------------------------

February 28, 1978TARTANpage 23
by Andrea Smith
If you've noticed their attractive poster, 
or caught sight of the huge banner which 
has been hung across the Gallery window, 
then you probably have already guessed 
that this show is going to be somewhat dif
ferent. And indeed it will be. For Corinne 
DiPasquale, Kenneth Botts, Kimberly 
Roush and James Griglak have made their 
show more than simply an exhibit of 
graphic design work-they have made it 
a "showing", just as their poster promises. 
And everything about this "showing" - 
from the publicity, to the work itself, 
down to the way in which the show has 
been arranged and hung-indicates the un
iqueness and professionalism of the four 
designers.
The show consists primarily of an as
sortment of "typical" graphic design work 
-posters, advertisements, logos and a var
iety of other two dimensional printed 
communications. The work is generally 
imaginative, pleasing, and wellexecuted. 
What is especially interesting, however, is 
the way in which each designer stands out, 
amidst this multitude of work, in his/her 
unique way. Each of the four has found 
some individual method of dealing with the 
eraohic communication of information, the
objective of graphic design.
For Corinne it is her calligraphy. Her 
concern for and sensitivity to the appear
ance of the written letter is evident in the 
beautiful calligraphy displays she has in
cluded in the show. Kenny is interested 
in letter forms as well, but of a different 
kind. His work deals primarily with typo* 
graphy --the printed letter. There is one 
woodcut in the show which especially dis
plays this interest and concentration. 
While Jims work encompasses some letter 
forms as well, he deals largely with graphic 
images in his work. He has tried to com
municate ideas more through images than 
words, and has managed to do so quite 
effectively in many of his package designs 
and advertisements. Kim also works more 
with images than letters or words, though, 
she deals with it in a different manner than 
Jim. Kim's work is primarily in the area of 
photography. Her photographs don't 
need any accompanying words, for they 
speak for themselves, conveying a mul
titude of ideas in one simple image.
Though quite condensed, this has, per
haps given you a small hint as to why this 
"showing" is so successful. The four des
igners are obviously individuals who not 
only have an understanding of graphic 
design, but also have clear idea of what 
they want and how best to achieve, it.
Graphics at Gallery
Artistry on ice is presented by Jill Mupstad in the brand-new edition of Shipstads & Johnson Ice Follies, to appear at 
the Civic Arena in Pittsburgh Tuesday, 
March 14 through Sunday, March 19. A
Black Belt karate expert, Jill demonstrates 
the skill of Tae-Kwan-Do with dynamic 
energy in her return to the show this sea
son. Creating her own skating routine and 
writing her accompanying music, she adds 
an electrifying current to the theme.
4RCH 
MADNESS
/4RT STORE SALE, starts /March 1
Blair Spray Paint,
Cani/as,Silksreen Ink,
B.&W. Photographic Paper, 
Ass\ Painting /Vlediums,
Koh-i-noor 8c Beroltechical pens 8c points, 
Steel IVool 
8c /Vlore!
Ice Follies is coming
back to Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

March 3 8:30 pm 
YWCA Downtown 
4th and Wood
March 4 8:30 pm 
Main Ballroom 
William Penn Hotel
Tickets available at Birmingham Booksellers Persad
Flo's Records Pitt Women's Center
donation $3.50
Interpretation for the deaf by Bev Walton
QUEEN MAEVE 
AND COMPANY
(412) 431-8666
A Best Seller . . - the television event of 1977 ... and a celebrated movie from Films Incorporated.
2 SHOWINGS EACH DAY: 11:30 & 12:30. Wherret Room, Skibo
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning 
FREE - Bring your lunch and a friend.
Tuesday. February 28 Chapter 4 - THE SLAVE (Cont)
En route to his tobacco plantation in Spotsylvania County, Virginia, "Massah'' 
Reynolds places an older slave, Fiddler, in charge of the wild African. Fiddler 
begins training Kunta immediately, soon coming to admire his rebellious young 
pupil. Kunta contrives an escape, but hampered by leg chains he is easily recap
tured by overseer Ames. An almost fatal beating ends when Kunta surrenders to 
the inevitable, whispering "Toby." Fiddler, caring for Kunta's wounds, reminds 
him that he will always be Kunta no matter what the white man calls him.
Wednesday. March 1 Chapter 5 - THE ESCAPE
Although resigned to the name "Toby," Kunta has not given up. During a harvest 
celebration he seizes his chance and makes one more try for freedom, but is soon 
caught. His sadistic captors, professional slave catchers, lash him to a tree, beat 
him, and chop off half a foot to prevent future escapes. For three weeks he lies 
unconscious in a cabin on Dr. William Raynolds' plantation (where he has been 
taken, with Fiddler and young Genelva, as payment of John Reynolds' debt). 
Cared for by Bell, the plantation cook, Kunta recovers and vows that he will not 
only walk again, but will learn to run.
Thursday. March 2Chapter 6  THE CHOICE
At Bell s persuasion, Toby becomes Doctor Reynolds' driver. Grateful for all she
has done for him, Kunta is drawn to Bell and, despite his penchant for solitude, 
marries her. A meeting with an African drummer rekindles his dreams of escape. 
The drummer is working out a plan and will beat a message when it is ready. Bell 
gives birth to a daughter to whom Kunta gives the Mandinka name of Kizzy. 
During the Mandinka ceremony with the newborn, the drummer signals. But Kun
ta, obligated now to his family, does not respond. Instead, as the drum beats in 
the distance, he recounts the tradition of her heritage to his infant daughter.
Monday, March 6Chapter 7 - THE UPROOTED
At sixteen, Kizzy is happy in her first love with handsome young Noah. Eagerly 
she awaits the return of Missy Anne, her childhood playmate, after a four-year 
absence. Against all rules, Anne has taught Kizzy to read and write, and now 
plans to ask Doctor Reynolds for Kizzy as her own personal slave. Noah puts an 
escape plan into action, but just when the terrified Kiz believes he has suc
ceeded, he is captured and tortured into admitting that Kizzy forged his travel 
pass. Despite the anguished pleas of Bell and Kunta, Doctor Reynolds im
mediately sells Noah and KizzyKizzy to sleazy Tom Ooore. Kizzy hopes for An
ne's last minute intervention, but Anne turns away. Kizzy is raped by Tom and, 
imbued with a lasting hatred, vows to have a son who will grow up and exact 
vengeance on her new owner.

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
MUSIC
The Phillips Quartet and the 415 Players 
will present a recital of baroque chamber 
music featuring Bachs Brandenburg Concerti Nos. 4 and 5 at CMUs GSIA Audi
torium on Monday, February 27, and at 
Pitt's Frick Fine Arts Auditorium on 
Tuesday, February 28. Both performances 
are at 8:30 PM, and admission is free to the 
public.
A Pittsburgh Opera premiere production of 
the opera The Pearl Fishers will be performed at Heinz Hall on March 2 and 4 at 
8:00 PM0 Reserve your tickets by calling 
281-0912 or 281-1279*
AB coffeehouse will feature Jim Ritchey 
and BeJae Fleming this Saturday, March 4 
at 9:30 PM in the Wherrett Room. Their 
repertoire varies from traditional music to 
noisy honky tonk to love ballads. CMU 
student Sue Burkhimer will also appear. Be 
there.
The most authentic and entertaining of 
jazz artists, the world-acclaimed Preser 
vation Hall Jazz Band arrives at Heinz 
Hall for one show on Sunday, March 12 
at 7:30 PM.
Tickets to hear this Dixieland delight 
are $8, $7 and $6 on sale at Heinz Hall, 
Kaufmanns, Gimbels and Sears. Group 
discount information is available by 
contacting Nancy Sieber at 281-8185.
GIRLS ... ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER 
COUNSELOR POSITION? Applicants are now being 
considered for the 1978 camp season. Must be able 
to teach one of the following: Aits & Crafts, Arts & 
Crafts Director, Dancing, Theatre Director, Piano Ac
companist and singing, Tennis, Trampoline, Gym
nastics, Photography, Cheerleading, Scouting and 
Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, Boating, 
Canoeing and Water Skiing Instructor.
Write Camp Office, 138 Woodland Drive, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15228.
Soprano Sally Taubenheim, senior lecturer 
in music at Carnegie-Mellon University, will 
give a recital on Sunday, March 5 at 8 PM 
in Mellon Institute auditorium, Oakland.
The program will include Despite and 
Still, a cycle of five songs by Samuel 
Barber; The Blessed Virgins Expostula
tion by Purcell; and selected songs by 
Poulenc and Berg. Accompanist for the 
recital will be pianist Nancy Brittain.
The March 5 recital is free and open to 
the public.
ART
An exhibition of new and recent drawings 
by Marisol will be held at the Jennie King 
Mellon Art Gallery until March 5th. The 
gallery hours are Tuesday thru Sunday 
from 2 to 5 PM and Fridays from 7 to
9 PM.
This Is Tomorrow, 1956, an exhibit of 
work by Jeffrey Cole, James P. Hahn, 
Douglas H. Schwab, Joseph V. Sullivan 
and Francis Treves, will be on display at 
the Hewlett Gallery in the College of Fine 
Arts March 6 through 10. Hours are 11:00 
AM to 4:00 PM.
The Israeli Art Exhibition and Sale will 
take place from Sunday, March 19th 
through Thursday, March 23rd, at the 
Jewish Community Center, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., in Oakland.
Exhibition hours are Sunday through 
Thursday, 10 AM-8 PM, Wednesday,
10 AM5 PM. For any further informa
tion about the exhibition, please call 
621-6500.
The Treasure Room, Museum of Art, Car
negie Institute currently has an exhibition 
In the Classic Spirit. This exhibit will be on 
display through the Spring.
It features a variety of objects from the 
Museums permanent and private collec
tions and is composed of ancient and Ren
aissance bronze and 18th century porce
lains, enamels, and silver.
"ALLEGRO NON TROPPO
An animated medley 
of satire, surrealism, 
spoofery, and general 
nonsense - set to 
superb music by 
Vivaldi, Debussy, 
Stravinsky, Dvorak, 
Ravel, and Sibelius...
COMING TO CMU MARCH 16
SPONSORED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY FILM ARTS COMMITTEE
CINEMA
Side Dodsons film, A Taste of Israel gives 
us a sampler of the variety of places and 
peoples found in Israel today. Dodson will 
narrate his film in person February 27 
March 2, as part of Carnegie Institutes 
travel film series.
Experimental filmmaker Robert Breer will 
discuss animation at a screening of his 
recent work, set for Wednesday, March 1 at 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
The lecture and film presentation are 
free and open to the public and will be 
held at 8 PM in room 7500 Science Hall at 
CMU. Films to be shown include Fuji and 
Breers latest, 77.
The March 1 film presentation and lec
ture are sponsored by Carnegie-Mellons 
design department.
AB will present Citizen Kane on Thursday, 
March 2 at 6, 8:30, and 11 PM. Dont miss 
Orson Welles masterpiece. Films are shown 
in Doherty Hall. Admission is .75 with ID.
AB will present Gone With the Wind on 
Friday, March 3 at 8:00 PM in the Skibo 
Ballroom. Admission is one dollar with 
an ID.
SDC will be presenting To Russia With 
Love on Saturday, March 4 at 6, 8:30, and 
11 PM in Doherty Hall. Admission is free.
THEATRE
Pittsburgh Public Theater will present Slow 
Dance and the Killing Ground by William 
Hanley performed in repertory with Medal 
of Honor Rag by Tom Cole, and directed' 
by Terry Schreiber, at the Allegheny The
ater on the Northside until March 5. Ticket 
information is available by calling 
323-1099.
The Pennsylvania Repertory Theatre pre
sents Una-Me-Dea a Woman Quest Febru
ary 24, 25, 26 and March 3, 4, 5 at 8:30 
PM at the Lion Walk Performing Arts Cen
ter, 420 N. Craig Street in Oakland.
It is an original work developed by the 
Pennsylvania Repertory Theatre company. 
There will be a $2.00 donation at the door. 
For reservations and further information 
call 683-3222.
Camelot Productions will present the Pitts
burgh premiere of the musical Sugar, open
ing Friday, Feb. 24 at the Plaza Theatre, 
Bloomfield.
Performances will be held Fridays and 
Saturdays at 8:30 PM and Sundays at 7:30 
PM, Feb. 24-Mar. 19 at the Plaza Theatre, 
4765 Liberty Avenue, Bloomfield. Ticket 
information may be obtained by calling 
Camelot Productions at 683-7770.
WRCT
WRCT presents The Morning Show week
days from 6:30-9:30. The format of this 
program includes music, news, weather, 
class cancellations, and traffic reports. 
WRCT is located at 88.3 on your F.M" dial.
The WRCT Marathon will take place 
from 6:00 PM, Friday, March 3rd to 8:00 
PM, Sunday, March 5th. One DJ will be on 
the air for fifty straight hours. This event 
is part of a fund-raising drive for a new 
antenna atop Warner Hall.
MISC.
ABs TGIF committee in connection with 
Food Service plans an evening out for 
March 3rd. See Gone With the Wind, then 
come to the Grill for their half-price food 
specials from 12 midnight to 3 AM. You 
can listen or dance to the jazz sounds-of 
Gibraltar with featured acts bv mimer Nat 
Ritch and magician Jon Brunelle.
A Spring field photography course is 
planned by the Leonard S. Mudge Environ
mental Education Program of Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History. Ft will be 
offered on Thursday evenings from 7:30- 
9:30 PM, March 30April 20.
Special Field Trips are scheduled on 
Sundays, April 9 and 16. PVe-registration 
for the course is necessary and a maximum 
of 25 students will be accepted. The course 
registration fee of $35.00 (members) and 
$40.00 (non-members) also includes sup
plies, a text book, film and processing for 
field trips. For additional information, call 
622-3283.

---------------------------------------------------

lecture one__________________tuesday, february 28
THEA TRE AND THEA TRICAUTY
Akram Midani - Dean of Fine Arts. CMU 
James Rosenberg - Drama Department, CMU 
Elisabeth Orion - Drama Department, CMU
I
lecture two__________________Wednesday, march 1
ART AND REALITY
Herbert Simon - Richard King Mellon University Professor, CMU 
David Carrier - History and Philosophy Department, CMU 
Donald Gordon - Professor of Fine Arts, University of Pittsburgh
lecture three___________________thursday, march 2
COMING TO TERMS: THE NEW SCULPTURE
James Nestor - Pittsburgh Sculptor 
D. Todd Krepley - Boston Sculptor 
Steven Dono - New York City Sculptor
lecture four_____________________tuesday, march 7
2 POETS: CONTEMPORARY POETRY IN AMERICA
CO SPONSORED BY CABNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY PRESS
Gerald Costanzo - Moderator, English Department, CMU 
Author of: In the Aviary 
Paula Rankin - Poet, Tennessee
Author of: By the Wreckmaster's Cottage 
Donald Hall - Poet, New Hampshire
Author of: The Alligator Bride and The Town of Hill
lecture five Wednesday, march 8
CONTEMPORARY ART IN WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA: 
REJUVENATION OR DECLINE?
Philo Pitcher - Kingpitcher Art Gallery 
Jim Westerberg - Glass Advertising, PPG Industries 
Donald Miller - Art Critic, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
Henry Koerner - Pittsburgh Artist
David Wilkins  Associate Professor of Fine Arts, University of Pittsburgh
lecture six________________________thursday, march 9
INTERACTIONS BETWEEN ART AND SCIENCE
Robert Feller - Director of Art and Materials Conservation Center, CMIR 
Ruth Johnston-FeHer - Consultant on Color Science 
James Swauger - Senior Scientist, Carnegie Museum
(
"0*gar.er James Nestor Coordinator Bernard Utozas Poster Design Mike Hoffman

---------------------------------------------------

AB Lectures Presents:
Jean-Michel Cousteau
Marine Architecture 
Design In Nature
Monday March 6 8 PM
Skibo Ballroom

---------------------------------------------------

Are we glad you're here!
-
Mike Underhill Buddy Hobart
Harvey
CMU
Pts
18
Harper29
Hufnagel19
Belechak6
Chambers10
DeFilippo
Hofmeister
2
4
Ward1
Underhill4
Hobart2
Ellis2
Stefanick0
97
Assist
9
1
1
2
1
3
1
3
1
0
0
2
24
CMU Basketball Team co-captain and four-year 
letterman Pat Ward looks to underclassmen Dave 
Stefanick, Mike Underhill, George Ellis, and 
Buddy Hobart to carry on the winning tradition 
which he helped start.
continued from page 31
credible pass to Harper, and finally 
"Leapin' Les" soft bank shot for the two 
points-. The play worked awfully well as 
evidenced by the nine assists for Harvey.
After his first half heroics led to CMU's 
46-30 intermission advantage, Harper got 
into foul trouble early in the second. No 
trouble for CMU because Hufnagel be
came the scoring "H". The sophomore 
power forward hit for 14 of his 19 points 
in the second half, including two three 
pointers. Again, it was Harvey who did the 
passing, along with a little scoring of his 
own (18 points).
A major factor in CMU's victory was 
their ability to dominate the glass. The
Tartans outrebounded Thiel 43-27. Greg 
Chambers led the assault with nine to go 
along with his 10 markers. The "H" squad 
of Harper, Hofmeister, Hufnagel also 
helped add punishment with 23 boards be
tween them.
CMU continued their fast paced style in 
the second half moving to leads as large as 
29. Coach Maloney had a chance to clear 
the bench as Tech produced their highest 
point output of the season. A fitting end to 
"H-Night" was Buddy Hobart's slam dunk, 
on a breakaway to make the final 97-68.
Sophomore center Mike Thierman led 
Thiel with 14 points. He was backed by 
12 from Tom Costo and 10 from Tom 
Wagner.
Photo essay prepared by Ramanan
Thiel
PtsRebAssist
Benedetto911
Scarpitti1017
Costo1224
Fantine610
Thierman1482
Wagner883
Thompson21 -0
Zawoysky000
O'Brien620
Szczepanski110
Curran010
682617
Am^ROTC. Now >pu can take it in7 years, too.
If you missed taking Army ROTC in your first two 
years of college, you may not have missed out. Because of the Army ROTC Two-Year program. 
And altogether, youll earn a total of about $2,900 to help 
you through your last two years of college. Then youll earn 
a commission as an officer at the same time you earn a 
college degree.
Army ROTC
CMU, Pgh., PA 15213
Please send me more information about the Army ROTC Two-Year Program.
Ms.Mr.____________________________________________
Address________________________________________
City_____________
State---------------------
.County.
.Zip..Phone.
College Attending. 
Graduation Date_
The Anny ROTC Two-lfear Program
You have the option of taking one of several programs 
designed to prepare you for Advanced ROTC. 
1. Basic Camp - a special six week summer camp. 
Youll be well paid for it.
Camp dates :30MayJuly78 
19 June27 July 78 
17 July24 Aug 78
2. Special Summer Program right here in the 
Pittsburgh area.
Program A 
Program B
10 July-29 July 78 
18 Aug. - 23 Aug 78
3.* Special Summer Program at Ft. Indiantown Gap, PA.
Program A 
Program B
7 May -13 May 78 
14 May - 20 May 78

---------------------------------------------------

February 28,1978TARTANpage 29
, Running in Pittsburgh
by David LaVere
"The loneliness of the long distance run
ner" is an often quoted cliche that is 
quickly losing its validity. How true it 
was that my entire workout of 8 to 12
miles a day in upstate New York could be 
completed without coming into contact 
with another human being, much less an
other runner. Names like Frank Shorter 
and Mary Decker were only recognized by 
a select few. Even the distance runs in 
which I participated were sparsely atten
ded.
Pittsburgh provides an entirely new per
spective fox this former country runner. 
Seldom am I able to run a mile without 
encountering another "hardy soul" out for 
his or her daily jog or training run. Ath
letic gear from Nike, Addidas, and Tiger 
are well represented all along my route. 
The local runs are extremely well organized 
and attended - "The Great Race" of last 
October boasted over a thousand partic
ipants. Pittsburgh has produced some fine 
distance runners, sucfi as Tom Allison of 
the University of Pittsburgh, and Tom 
Abbott of Carnegie-Mellon University - 
both have done extremely well in the 
prestigious Boston Marathon.
Yet it isn't just the presence of other 
runners which causes my running exper
ience to be unique. It is the feeling of 
vitality, the constant activity of people 
that leaves this country boy "breathless" 
and "awestruck." It is the feeling of 
being a part of that activity that is the 
most impressive. My daily runs to campus 
capture that impression.
Each Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, 
equipped with a back-pack filled with 
books and clothes, I slowly head towards 
Carrtegie-Mellon from Wilkensburg. Even 
at 7:30 in the morning I can feel the city 
start to come to life. Running up Forbes 
Avenue past Frick Park reminds me of my 
country runs. But the hustle and bustle of 
activity in Squirrel Hill shatters my eu
phoric meditation. Horns blare,busses load 
and unload, stores and stations prepare for 
business, crossing guards help children ac
ross the streets, all combine to leave me 
dazed and impressed. But the best is yet 
to come. At the top of Schenley Drive I 
begin a long descent into a myriad of 
buildings and activity - all beginning.
seemingly, at Carnegie-Mellon University. 
It is truly exciting to be a part of city life.
It really makes no difference whether 
you are a competitive runner, or a "oneblock" jogger, whether you run a hundred 
miles a week or ten. Take some time to
put on a sweat-suit and tour Carnegie-Mel
lon and the surrounding areas. The campus 
is extremely well located for running in 
Schenley Park or for circumnavigating the 
city streets. Try it! What have you got to 
lose?Chess Corner
by Joseph Bartnicki
Author: Joseph Bartnicki 
Black to play and win in 20 moves.
i  mt mu a
(3JBUI bru2PuiCht ytC
NXS3AOUINl
eoT*9i
(ajBui 0-D()8H-d9l il) 
(N)88-d9I
zn-n'sm SI 
3N" H 
(dXO8OI SI 
-)I 8>-^ M Jl) 
^I-X H
eaoTsaom 
ipeN8N-S z\
t*l0l880 II
ipexo 8)ro oi 
ea-0D-^6 
tpHi-a-a 8
S8-000I 
9*0 "9 
OP 9*1-0 ()88-d 9 Jl)
L'-y. 9
(0)8a-da-ds 
8-d9a-dfr 
98-d NDO e 
HXN 9^ Z 
MS}*N  '  I 
>I3MSNV
illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllUlfllllllllllllimillllU:
Great Moments in the history of hoir
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct irepair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this. 
stuff was feathers, insists Kneg, 
his helper.
Dummy", counters Blech "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
HAIRCUTS 
(Wash-Cut Blow)10.00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 
687-3500
PERMANENTS
25.00
UNISEX HAIR SALON
jSiiMniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiwwiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiniiiiiiiiiHiiHiiitiiMtii
No
Appointments

---------------------------------------------------

page 30TARTANFebruary 28, 1978
Swimmers lose, 
prep for PAC
by John Rossi
On Saturday, February 25, the CMU 
swimming team traveled to Meadville for 
their final dual meet of the season against 
the powerful Allegheny Gators. The Gators 
showed that they are the class of the PAC 
by thoroughly swamping the Tartans. In 
the same meet, Allegheny lost to Clarion, 
probably the best small college swimming 
team in the country. Coach Donna Pecman 
placed many of her swimmers in events 
other than their usual ones.
Despite the dismal overall results, there 
were several bright spots for CMU. The 
brightest was Harry Coleman's 53.7 swim 
in the 100 yard butterfly. The swim broke 
CMU's school record and qualified Harry 
for NCAA Division III national champion
ships to be held this March.
The CMU 400 yard medley relay team 
of Joe Dickey, Jim Matysek, Harry Cole
man, and Tom Barr also tried to qualify for 
the Nationals, but fell short as they fin
ished in 3:47.3. The time was still a school 
record and the team should be able to drop 
this time at the PAC's to point where they 
will qualify for the NCAA Championships.
Jim Matysek set the third school record 
of the day with a 2:19.8 clocking in the 
200 yard breaststroke. The 400 yard free
style relay team, consisting of Joe Dickey, 
Harry Coleman, Tom Barr, and Jim Maty
sek, finished in 3:30.5, their best time this 
season.
The loss dropped the Tartan's record to 
61 in the PAC (73 overall) while 
Allegheny remained undefeated in the
conference.
March 2-4 will mark the PAC Champi
onships at John Carroll University. With a 
strong performamce, Coach Pecman's 
tankers can finish second. Many CMU 
swimmers will be counted on for strong 
showings. Joe Dickey (individual medley 
and backstroke); Harry Coleman (butter
fly); Jim Matysek (distance freestyle, 
breaststroke); John Rossi, Joachim Neteler, 
and Tom Gerlowski (distance freestyle); 
Tom Barr, Pete Dickey, and Jeff Bland 
(springs); Doug McPherson (distance 
freestyle, butterfly); Brian Hobbs and 
Jamie Uber (breaststroke); Bob Frye 
and Tony Carrington (diving); Dave 
Watterson (distance freestyle, backstroke); 
Mike Hurley (backstroke); Neal Kushner 
(distance freestyle, butterfly); and Bob 
Hantz (splittaking) are the CMU swim
mers who will participate.Volleyball club 
wins 3rd straight
For the third week in a row, the CMU 
Club Volleyball Team captured first place 
in the weekly WPIVA tournaments by de
feating Indiana in the finals at the Indiana 
Invitational on Sunday, February 19.
CMU started the day slowly, dropping 
both games against Pitt in round-robin 
play. The team recovered and whipped 
Penn State, New Kensington, Allegheny, 
and Indiana. In the quarterfinals, CMU 
dumped Edinboro; 15-6, 15-12. California 
fell in the semi-finals; 15-12,15-10.
In the exciting finale, CMU was rematched with Indiana. Playing in front of 
Indiana's hometown fans, the Tartans pro
ceeded to convincingly stop Indiana (15- 
13,15-6) to take first place.
CMU II was barred from competition 
this week because of ineligible foreign 
players.
This week in IntramuralSports
THE MOVIE FOR THE 
HEAD SET.
-vJ5>
Bruno BozzettosAllegro NonTroppo
(a full-length animated movie) 083
A Specialty Films Release
COMING TO CMU MARCH 16
SPONSORED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY FILM ARTS COMMITTEE
by Frank Pugliano
The appearance of Earl Birdy on 
KDKA's Evening Magazine now has a defi
nite date. He will be featured March 13, at 
7:30 (Channel 2). Topics of discussion will 
include Mr. Birdy's career as a football ref
eree and information about the refereeing 
profession in general.
Participants in corec badminton, indi
vidual call pool, corec table tennis, and 
handball can pick up their schedules for 
times and places in the Intramural Office, 
Room 104, in the Gym.
The IM Department announced this 
week that due to the energy shortage the 
IM water basketball competition will be 
postponed until an as yet undetermined 
date. Until further notice the swimming 
pool will be closed after 6:00 PM.
The Intramural swimming competition 
will still be held on Tuesday, March 14 at 
4:30 PM in the Gym.
IM wrestling is now under way. Sched
ules for practice sessions are posted on the 
IM bulletin board. Competitors must at
tend at least four practice sessions before 
they are eligible to compete. The wres
tling meet will be held March 3 and 4 in 
the Gym. Entries can be made individual
ly or as part of a team.
IM rifle still needs a commissioner. If 
you. are interested, see Mr. Birdy. Entries 
are due March 7 at 4:30 in the IM Office.
This was the first year for IM backgam
mon competition. The league was set up 
with two divisions of seven teams each. 
Matches were contested with five players 
from each team playing each other in a 
best of five series. Reaching the finals were 
two undefeated teams: 8Primes and 
Delta Tau Delta. In the final 8Primes 
defeated DTD, 3 to 1. The individual 
backgammon competition will be played 
in Hunt Library on March 4 and March 
18.
Sports with entries due this week are: 
foulshooting, softball, team badminton, 
fencing, and archery. Registration forms, 
as usual, are due Wednesday, March 8, at 
4:30 in the IM Office.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENTS:
IM Night will be on March 17 in the 
Gym. Activities will start at 7:00 PM.
IM softball registration forms are due 
Wednesday, March 8 in the IM office.
The Nose Knows: IM Basketball
The energy pinch is now going to hurt 
IM basketball. All games have been moved 
to either 6:30 or 7:30. Coaches and 
players should check the IM bulletin board 
for changes in time. Also, because of
financial problems, there will be no WIIC 
IM Basketball Tournament this year.
Returning to better news, the featured 
, IM team this week is Reality II. Reality II 
is the defending championship team and 
again this year they look tough. The start
ing five for Reality II, which includes two 
members of last year's Reality club, are 
Winston Thomas, Tyron Austin, Anthony 
McElroy, Ken Spann, and Ron Henderson. 
Winston Thomas, who has played varsity 
ball, controls the boards for the team. 
Helping out underneath is Ron Henderson. 
The team center is Ken Spann, and the 
guards are Tyron Austin and Anthony 
McElroy. Alternating at guard and for
ward are Russel Nelson and Everard 
Spencer. Also on the team, but injured and 
no longer playing, is Alvin Long. This team 
has as much ability as any of the other 
teams, and, when hot, can hit with phe
nomenal accuracy from the outside. The 
team plays good hard basketball and 
should land a playoff berth.
In the Intermediate League, I pick 
Sigma Nu and After Birth Scum to make 
the finals. The men from the zoo seem to 
have a well coordinated attack which may 
match the "Borvarsity" of ABS; but I 
doubt it!
In Major League results this week, the 
Celtics slid by Reality II, 4847; the Other 
Ones deflowered the Sex Pistols, 5949 
ATO won by forfeit over the AllStars 
GSIA Bucks fired the Sex Pistols, 4939 
Reality II won by forfeit over Pika and the 
Other Ones and the AllStars forfeited to 
the Celtics and the Sex Pistols; and ATO 
defeated Reality II, 6552.
The basketball championships will be 
held on Intramural Night, March 17. The 
Intermediate finals will begin at 7:00, 
followed by Major Championship at 8:30.
HAVLICEK
Celtics 
GSIA Bucks 
The Other Ones 
Bet a-A 
SAE-A 
Pika-A
ERVING
Nerd Knockers 
ATO-A 
Realty II 
Exp(MDBC) 
Coaches All Stars 
Sex Pistols 
All-Stars
W
7
5
5
4
5 
1
W
6
8
5
4
2
1
1
S>
SPEND NEXT 
SEMESTER ABROAD
Academic programs available in:
 FLORENCE  LONDON
 AMSTERDAM  STRASBOURG
 MADRID  MEXICO
* Apply now for Fall 1978
* Variety of courses offered
* No language background required
* Financial Aid available
* Summer programs available in England, Italy, 
Israel, Switzerland, Austria, East Africa and 
The Netherlands
For more information and application, write:5VRACU5E UniVERilTVDivision OP inTERDflTIOnflL PROGRAfTlS ABROAD
335 Comstock Avenue 
Syracuse New York 13210feieph

---------------------------------------------------

February 28,1978-TARTAN-page 31
SYSTEMS ANALYST
PRODUCT ENVIRONMENT
SEI CORPORATION is a young, very aggressive organization which provides Trust 
Accounting and management reporting services to over 200 banks throughout the 
U. S. and Canada. Our system, known as TRUST-AID, is a set of data based orien
ted, interactive application programs written in FORTRAN.
As our company grows we continue to enhance our applications and build new 
ones.
We are looking for individuals who are creative and can grow with us. The ideal 
candidates:
1. Will have successfully developed and maintained a data base oriented, 
interactive financial application in a time sharing environment.
2. Be knowledgeable of accounting and finance and familiar with the func
tions of the securities and trust industries.
3. Be comfortable with 1 or 2 time sharing machines such as PRIME 300/400, 
DEC-10, 11 /70, HP-2000, HP-3000, H-6000
4. Be comfortable with FORTRAN, Hierarchial file structures and systems 
design concepts.
Let us hear from you if you are the ideal candidate. Send your resume along with a 
letter to: Manager, Professional Personnel
SEI CORPORATION
Valley Forge Executive Mall - Bldg. 07 
Wayne, Pa. 19087
Equal Opportunity Employer
Harvey, Harper ace Cai. State
by Bob Firm
On the surface, Carnegie-Mellon's 93-82 
victory over visiting California State ap
peared to be the season's most exciting 
contest at Skibo Gym. However, if you 
Jfciink about it, things were pretty mono
tonous.
George Harvey scored, George Harvey 
scored, George Harvey scored and George 
Harvey scored some more. And if a shot 
was missed, Les Harper rebounded, Les 
Harper rebounded, and *Les Harper re
bounded a couple more times.
Both senior stars had CMU career highs 
*n their specialties. Harvey fired in 39 
points inside and out in his personal duel 
with California State's quick scoring guard 
Delmar Beshore. Beshore, ranked in the 
top ten in NCAA Division II scoring 
finished the game with 23.
Harper grabbed 17 missed shots in his 
outstanding board game. Harper was 
matched against the Vulcans' Scott
0 Mountz. Mountz, leading Division II in re
bounding with a better than 18 average,
* was held to only five rebounds.
An elated Coach Dave Maloney re- marked, "It was an excellent win because it 
came at a time we really needed it, Itwas a
 good win for our momentum."
The contest matched two of the area's 
best running games. It seemed like an NBA
0 game as both teams moved it up and down 
the floor in a sudden hurry.
The Vulcans surprised CMU early with 
their overall team speed. Beshore was with
out question one of the fastest guards that 
the Tartans faced all year and Cal State's 
big meti could also move it up the floor.
Cal State moved to an early 22-10 ad
vantage as they hit on 11 of their first 14 
^ attempts. Beshore was the main thorn in 
thp Tartans' side early in the game. The 
Tartans were able to close the gap to one, 
49-48, at halftime as Harvey led the 
comeback assault.
The Tartans took control of the game as
Women's track meeting
An organizational meeting for the plan
ning of a women's track team here at CMU 
will be held Wednesday March 1 at 7:00 
PM in the lounge of 6B Morewood. All 
those interested are encouraged to attend 
express your ideas and support. Current 
plans are for the creation of a club team 
for this spring with a possible move up to 
the varsity level next year.
Harvey and Harper got their acts in gear. 
Harvey nailed down 11 tallies in a seven 
minute span while holding Beshore at bay. 
Meanwhile Harper was chewing glass on 
every missed shot. As a result CMU took a 
67-64 advantage midway through the 
second half.
Joe Belechak canned four in a row while 
the Vulcans hit a rare cold streak and CMU 
moved to a comfortable 77-70 lead late in 
the game. The Tartans went to the four 
corners offense soon afterward.
With Harvey, Belechak, and Mariano 
DeFilippo operating the spread offense to 
perfection, CMU's victory was in good 
hands. Harvey, DeFilippo, and Greg Cham
bers completed a perfect 19 for 19 effort 
from the foul-line for the Tartans down the 
stretch to preserve the 93-82 triumph.
Besides Harvey's super shooting that ac
counted for 39, Larry Hufnagel and Joe 
Belechak aided the Tartan scoring cause 
with 14 and 12 respectively.
Cal State had a balanced attack behind 
Beshore, H.E. Johns hit for 18, Dick Hartung added 13, and Mountz and Seth 
Jaffee both chipped in with 10.
CMU
PtsRebAssist
Harvey3926
Harper8171
Chambers891
Belechak1241
Hufnagel1441
DeFilippo811
Hofmeister424
93
California
39
State
15
PtsRebAssist
Beshore2349
Vargo034
Hartung1332
Johns1880
Mountz1052
Aikens820
Cleckley063
Jaffee1052
823622
CMU 'H'exes 
Thiel, 97-68
by Bob Firm
If the Carnegie-Mellon-Thiel game had 
been shown on Sesame Street, Coach Dave 
Maloney might have said, "This victory was 
brought to you by the letter 'H'." Certain
ly no one could disagree that the forces of 
Les Harper, George Harvey, Larry Huf
nagel, and Dave Hofmeister proved too 
much for the visiting Tomcats in the Tar
tan's 97-68 romp.
Harper was the dominating figure in 
CMU's easy victory. The 6-6 center, com
ing off his finest rebounding game against 
California State, turned into a scoring 
terror as he connected on 14 of 18 field 
goal attempts and finished the evening with 
29 points.
The towering product of Schenley High 
School single-handedly broke open a close 
first half battle by scoring 18 of CMU's 
last 22 points of the period, including 12 in 
a row in the final three minutes.
The Tomcats were hanging tough with 
CMU until Harvey hit two jumpers in 
rapid succession to give the Tartans the 
lead to stay at 22-21 with a little under 
:ight minutes to play in the opening 
;tanz^. Then Harper got hot and there was 
10 stopping the Tartans.
Harper killed Thiel inside throughout 
the first half. A typical scoring play for 
.MU was Harvey driving baseline, an incontinued on page 28
George Harvey beats four Cal State defenders and scores two of his thirty-nine points.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTSBethany nips CMU title hopes
by Bob Firm
Kendal Hayes, a 6-6 sophmore center, 
cooly flipped in two free throws with only 
four seconds to play to give the Bethany 
Bisons an 84-82 victory over the Carnegie 
Mellon Tartans. The pressure  shots also 
gave Coach Jim Dafler's Bisons the Presi
dents' Athletic Conference title and a trip 
to the NCAA playoffs while eliminating 
CMU from any post-season action.
Hayes' charity tosses capped the most 
exciting game of the season and also the 
most disappointing contest that CMU was 
involved in. The loss left Coach Dave Mal
oney's crew in second in the PAC race 
with a standing of 10-4 in PAC and 14-7 
overall.
The matchup of the two top squads in 
the PAC lived up to all its pre-game build
up. The nip and tuck struggle saw a total of
17 ties and 24 lead changes. Neither team 
enjoyed more than a five point lead.
CMU appeared in prime position to 
blow the game open late in the contest. 
With seven minutes to play, Les Harper 
canned a turnaround jumper and an ensu
ing foul shot to complete a three-point 
play and give the Tartans a 68-65 lead. 
George Harvey quickly followed with a 
jumper for two of his game high 32 tallies 
to put CMU up 70-65.
Bethany weathered the storm and came 
back like true champions just three min
utes later to take the lead again at 77-76 on 
a Scott Thompson basket. Thompson, 
playing with a bandaged left wrist, poured 
in six key second half hoops.
Larry Hufnagel regained the lead for 
CMU with 3:41 to play on a hoop inside. 
The sophomore forward finished the after
noon at Bethany with 20 points and eight 
rebounds.
Sharpshooting Greg Dulkowski quickly 
followed with a hoop for the Bisons and
the middle. He was fouled arid hit the free 
throws with four ticks left.
CMU's only chance to tie was a despera
tion midcourt shot by Hufnagel. The 
crowd watched the ball arch towards the 
hoop and just bound off the back of the 
rim leaving the Bisons the victors.
The Bison supporters then mobbed the 
floor in a wild celebration that was similar 
tQ the Tartans' last season when they de
feated Bethany at home to win the PAC 
title.
Besides Harvey's 15 for 22 effort from 
the field on his way to 32 and Hufnagel's 
clutch second half, Harper was the only 
other offensive gun for Tech. He ended the 
day with 16 points and an incredible 16 
boards.
Dulkowski's hot first half aided him 
leading the Bethany scorers. The senior tri
captain hit for 21 tallies. His other two 
captain mates also hit double figures. 
Thompson scored 13 and Fran Haus added
10. Hayes, the hero of the game, finished 
with 15.
' 1  tr
Larry Hufnagel powers his way to a lay-up.
Thompson's field goal soon after that gave 
Bethany an 81-78 advantage with only 
2:30 remaining. CMU's Mariano DeFilippo 
was fouled in a scramble for a loose ball 
and converted both ends of the 1-1 to put 
the Tartans down by only one with two 
minutes to play.
Bethany then went to the'four cormers 
offense that has proven to be a friend of 
CMU many times late in a contest. This 
time, however, the delay tactics were an 
enemy in the hands of the Bisons. The 
hosts were able to rattle off 80 seconds of 
precious time while the Tartans were trying 
to accumulate enough team fouls to force 
Bethany to the foul line.
On an inbounds play, Bethany found 
freshman Fred Gongola alone underneath. 
He missed the easy layup, but was fouled 
on the rebound. He converted the second 
of the two shot foul with 40 seconds re
maining to put his team up 82-80.
CMU called their last time out to set 
their final strategy. Everyone and his bro
ther in the standing room only crowd knew 
that Harvey would be shooting.
Harvey backed his man Armand Natili 
into the top of the key and shot his favo
rite turnaround jumper. He was fouled in 
the act with the ball just bounding off the 
rim much to the disappointment of the
California State, 
Thiel stories 
inside
Tartan backers. The senior co-captain then 
hit both free throws with 0:26 showing to 
knot the count at 82's.
Bethany was holding the ball for the last 
shot when Hayes found an opening down
CMU
PtsRebAssist
Harvey3222
Harper16160
Hufnagel2081
Chambers441
Belechak440
DeFilippo412
Hofmeister210
82365
Bethany
PtsRebAssist
Dulkowski2152
Haus1034
Thompson1301
Natili812
Zsigray421
Hayes15123
Winovich891
Gogola522
843416
Banner top candidate for Bradley Post Times
Athletic Director Jim Banner is the top 
candidate to replace retiring AD Chuck 
Orsborn of Bradley University in Peoria 
Illinois. The field of candidates had been 
narrowed to Banner, Billy Stone, the cur
rent Assistant Athletic Director at Bradley, 
and Ron Ferguson, Athletic Director at 
Illinois State University. The final recGeorge Harvey waves goodbye to his last point as 
CMU Tartan.
ommendation has been sent from the 
search committee at Bradley to the Pres
ident of the University, Martin G. Abegg. 
Abegg will announce.the ultimate selection 
this Thursday.
Of the three final candidates, only 
Banner or Ferguson is likely to be named. 
Billy Stone has only been considered out 
of respect for his position as Assistant AD.
Banner has been endorsed by the 
Bradley Scout and by the Peoria Journal 
Star, and the search committee at Bradley 
apparently is impressed with the job Ban
ner has done here at Carnegie-Mellon. 
Bradley, a normally competative Division 
I sports school, has suffered through sev
eral frustrating athletic seasons. The pro
gram reportedly lacked a spark of excel
lence - something that Banner is expected 
to provide.
The timing of the appointment is par
ticularly important. The contract of the 
head basketball coach at Bradley will run 
out March 1. If Banner is to be appointed, 
it will come March 2 - just in time to 
begin house cleaning with the basketball 
program.
Banner was quoted in the Pittsburgh 
Press last Friday as saying: "No decisions 
have been made, but I am apparently the 
leading candidate. I love working for 
Carnegie-Mellon, so it would be difficult 
to leave if given the opportunity. lts 
something I'd have to give a lot of thought
