TARTAN
February 15, 1977 Volume 77, Number 17 CarnegieMellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Cyert Responds to CMU Evaluation
by Eric Petersen
President Richard Cyerts written res
ponse to the Middle States Association 
evaluation stated that this report made 
many excellent suggestions and comments 
and thanked the team for its diligent work 
here.
Commenting on the criticism of the 
structure of SUPA (School of Urban and 
Public Affairs), Cyert said that, although 
the existing system where the dean of 
SUPA must report directly to the dean of 
GSIA may appear cumbersome when view
ed from the outside, it functions well. In 
fact, the dean of GSIA is an individual 
who knows the problems of the deanship 
and can function as a supervisor of deans. 
_ Acknowledging the rivalry between the fac
ulties of GSIA and SUPA, he wrote that 
this was due to the fact that the initial fac
ulty of SUPA was in' fact drawn from 
GSIA. The competition can be expected to 
greatly decrease in the next two years, 
though. The curriculum of SUPA was cited
in the report to be quite thorough in quan
titative areas - so thorough, in fact, that 
other important fields seemed to be lack
ing.
Agreeing that this was the case, Cyert 
stated that efforts would be made to aug
ment the curriculum in the areas of policy 
and possibly leadership, although certainly 
not to the detriment of quantitative tech
niques. In response to the suggestion that a 
few senior faculty members be acquired to 
balance the existing youth now in SUPA, 
efforts will be made to fmd one or two 
more senior members and to make greater 
use of part-time faculty members.
In response to the severe complaints 
about the CMU library system, Cyert said 
that this was a problem that the university 
had already begun to grapple with be
fore the evaluation team arrived. The li
brary has been budgeted $100,000 over the 
next two years, half of which will be allo
cated immediately. In addition, a grant ofJohn Crecine, Dean of H&SS
Crime Decreases by 20%
by Gary R. Fabian
Over the past three years the crime rate 
at CMU has gone down approximately 
twenty percent. This decrease, according to
Mike Corletti, "Morewood Gardens is a real 
problem area."
Michael A. Corletti, Head of Security, is 
due in part to students increased concern. 
He said that students have been reporting 
more crimes and as a result the Security 
Department has been able to do a better 
job.
Student reports have been particularly 
important, said Corletti, in reducing the 
crime rate in Morewood Gardens. It is a 
real problem area, according to Corletti, 
mostly due to its location between two of 
the citys large thoroughfares.
He also mentioned that a number of re
commendations have been submitted to 
housing for the tightening of security in 
Morewood. Access, said Corletti, must 
be controlled to a large dorm like More
wood. Increased security will not only take 
more man power but some actually remod
eling. The changes will of course incon
venience some people. But for the increas
ed security the residents probably wont 
mind.
Corletti also pointed out that,  We are 
very fortunate to have a low assult rate. 
Most disagreements are between students
and are easily settled. But, he continued, 
Undoubtedly there are more crimes being 
committed that are not reported. Especial
ly rapes this is due to the very nature of 
the crime. Probably, according to Corlet
ti, the most important thing students can 
do is to practice safe keeping of their 
valuables and themselves.
He said that at the moment the main 
trouble area is the gymnasium. It is the 
ideal spot for thefts to occur, Corletti 
said. Also he requested that people not 
bring valuables to the gym and please lock 
the lockers. Finally he said, Id like to 
see more control and better results es
pecially in the area of ourgulary and theft. 
There is always room for improvement and 
every day we are trying to improve security 
systems and methods.
$75,000 has been received, raising the li
brary budget $175,000 over the next 
two years.
The charge that the administration was 
attempting to make the library self-suppor
ting was denied, as a campus library can 
neither accomplish this nor should be ex
pected to do so. The administration is 
merely attempting to transform the library 
into a modem and efficient service.
The Middle States report also raised the 
question as to whether the present adminis
tration, although judged to be quite func
tional, could work during various periods 
of stress. Cyert responded to this by citing 
the fact that when he assumed the presi
dency in 1972, the university had been 
through three years of financial deficits 
and that the budgeting procedure was in 
disarray. The administration, he stated, not 
only survived this period of stress, but grew 
stronger during it, setting the pattern for 
the following years.
The report also cited the Department of 
Administration and Management Science 
( \MS ) as an area where governance had 
apparently broken down, resulting in its 
present problems. Cyert stated that the 
problems are not the result of faulty gover
nance, but rather due to the size limita
tions of the GSIA faculty, who also teach 
in AMS.
Pl&ns to correct this problem are 
being instituted - many of the teaching as
signments are being switched to full-time 
faculty members and efforts are being 
made to increase the size of the present 
faculty. An assistant department head has 
also been named to strengthen the adminis
tration of AMS . Additional steps have 
been taken to develop a uniform curricu
lum and to institute internal consulting to 
enhance instruction.
While agreeing with many of the com
ments of the evaluation team about H&SS, 
Cyert points out that a traditional liberal
continued on page 7
Famous Novels Chosen as Spring Carnival Theme
Film Price Hike Expected
by Gary R. Fabian
AB Friday Night Movies may be going 
up in price from 75 cents to $1.00 next 
fall. A final decision about the raise will be 
made by Student Senate at its meeting at 
the end of February. According to Don 
Simon, chairman of Senate Finance Com
mittee, AB has asked for an increase in 
their budget of $6,000. He said that this 
was too much and that $1,000 or $2,000 
was more realistic.
If Senate did give AB the money, Simon 
said, then Senate would have to cut back 
funding of other organizations and that is 
not a good idea. Possibly the money 
could be produced if the enrollment went 
up or if the Activities Fee was increased, 
but Simon said that neither of these is 
probable.
The only other way Senate could con
ceivably raise the money, according to
Simon, was to increase the income of AB. 
He also said. The only really financially 
successful activity of AB is the Friday 
Night Movies. Many times they are filled 
to capacity. Senate felt that AB could 
make up to $2,500 to supplement their 
budget by increasing admission to the 
movies by 25 cents.
According to Simon, AB is against the 
idea of the increase for a number of 
reasons. One is that they already receive 
complaints about the movie admission 
prices and another more important 
reason, Simon explained, is that the in
crease would not produce the amount of 
money which AB requested.
Simon explained that Senate is aware of 
the reasons AB wants the increase. A few 
of them are: film rental prices have in
creased, projector repairs have gone up,
continued on page 5
By A. E. Boyle
Diane Maddock, Chairperson of Spring 
Carnival, recently announced Famous 
Novels 1850 to present as the carnivals 
theme. She emphasizes the fact that the 
Spring Carnival Committee still needs 
people to help out. There are several open
ings on the committee. Entranceway chair
person, for instance, is responsible for de
sign and contruction of the entrace to mid
way.
The committee needs people to recruit 
entertainers for the Show-mobile. They 
are hoping to have more entertainers this 
year than last year. Volunteers are needed 
to organize and judge events such as plank 
joust, relays frisbee toss, and gozorch.
Spring Carnival Committee needs more 
money for fireworks. According to Diane 
Maddock, the budget is essentially
the same as last year, but their expenses 
have skyrocketed.
The Fireworks display is not the only 
area feeling the pinch. Half of our budget 
is used for publicity and printing prices 
have gone up considerably, said Maddock. 
This year instead of printing 100 of all of
our posters we can only print 50. The 
committee is trying to do the best it can 
within its budget constraints.
To contact the committee, leave a note 
at the Skibo Information desk.
Dian Maddock, The budget is essentially tha 
same, but expanses have skyrocketed.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Number Games
This University, and higher education in general, places 
considerable emphasis on their performance in the various 
schemes that attempt to measure educational quality. These 
ratings are very appealing because they satisfy a juvenile de
sire to have objects ranked in order from best to worst. Un
fortunately, it is easy to be blinded by the ratings into losing 
sight of the complexity of higher education which cannot be 
adequately described by a compilation of schools in some 
numerical order.
The attraction of rating makes some sense. Most people 
would agree that there are some schools that are unquestion
ably outstanding while there are others that are undeniably 
bad. The challenge is how to fill in the large gap in a fair and 
valid way. There are several approaches to this problem.
The traditional method of ranking schools is patterned 
after the opinion poll. It simply involves asking people, either 
involved in higher education or in some field related to what 
is being ranked, for their own ratings of the schools involved. 
This is admittedly a very subjective approach. In spite of this 
criticism, the method still remains popular.
Recently there have been attempts to develop methods 
that are less subjective and more quantitative. These generally 
involve using some measure of faculty performance, such as 
number of publications or number of times those publica
tions are cited by others. These methods have not been with
out criticism either, mainly because their results tend to be 
different from what people expect based on the opinion 
sampling technique. This illustrates just how primitive the 
rating methodology is.
One of the most frequent criticisms of the entire concept 
of ratings is that they result in the establishment of a pecking 
order between universities which discourages attempts at 
creativity and innovation.
A certain pecking order is clearly present between depart
ments here at CMU. All too often, especially cmong stu
dents, one can hear boasting about how highly rated certain 
departments or colleges are. Even worse are the vicious at
tacks about how other colleges and departments are so 
poorly rated. This is especially disturbing when it is dear that
many of the boasts or attacks are not even based on a famil
iarity with existing rankings, but solely on individual preju
dice.
The ratings are a good example of a little knowledge being 
dangerous. Often, rankings are used to pass judgements on 
departments of which the individual actually has very little 
knowledge. Secure with this small bit of information, one 
will not be interested in examining the department further. 
All that matters are the numbers. If the department is in the 
top ten, then it is prestigious. If the department is not so 
highly ranked, then why would anyone want to study in it? 
Unfortunately, this all too common analyses obscures the ori
ginal question, namely, how to determine excellence in edu
cation.
CMU itself is a good example of the problem with rating 
systems. The Universitys small size, one of its greatest assets 
educationally, hurts it badly in the ratings. Being small makes 
the University attractive in the classroom, but makes it very 
difficult to produce the volume of research which has such 
an important effect on determining standing in the rankings.
The desire for superiority appears common to Western cul
ture. Whether it be in national defense or football, the only 
matter of real importance is to be number one. Given this 
background, it is dear how ratings of educational institutions 
have come to be overemphasized.
There is no denying that ratings can be of some value. 
However, when ranking becomes an end all in itself then it 
probably results in more damange than good.
Charles Mitch 
Editor
WHAMWASTE
Letters
Security Guilty 
Editor:
I could not help noticing that 
the CMU Security men had placed 
a wheel lock on a car in the Skibo 
parking lot. Perhaps there are a 
few laws which CMU and the cam
pus community should know 
about.
First: there is no provision un
der the laws of Pa, Allegheny 
County or the city of Pittsburgh 
which allow a private security 
force to ticket a car. The only re
course a private land owner has 
when someone is parking on their 
land is to have the police tow the 
car. Thus ticketing, other than 
warnings, which charge a fee un
der threat of towing is merely a 
thinly disguised form of extortion 
which the campus allows to take 
place.
Second: there is no provision 
whatsoever, under law, for a pri
vate security force to impound a 
vehicle Thus the wheel lock is a 
form of illegal seisure of property.
It comes as no surprise to me 
that CMU does not bother to o
bey the law. Past Security men 
have been shown to be guilty of 
threatening students with prose
cution, and jail terms, under laws 
which did not exist. These cases 
were either settled out of court or 
the student gave in to the security 
man, and was never officially 
heard of.
Such abuses will always exist 
where people are .not aware of 
their rights. You have every right 
to feel mad at receiving a CMU 
ticket, and a good case if one of 
the wheel locks is applied.
I would suggest that CMU find 
a legal way of enforcing their 
parking restrictions, even if it 
means gates at every parking lot 
entrance. I think the campus com
munity deserves law abiding se
curity regardless of Warner Halls 
opinion of the rights of students 
and staff.
Concerned Commuter
A Poor Course
Editor:
The Ingredients of a Poor Course
All of the following ingredients 
are required.-
a.) Put a required course at 
night.
b.) Let it meet only once a 
week for 3 hours.
c.) Hire an outside professional 
unfamiliar with the current 
status of the students.
d.) Throw in a text with no 
examples.
e.) Be certain to assign home
work problems that have no 
relationship to material lec
tured on.
f.) Add approximately 45 stu
dents.
Mix well and place in a room with 
space for only thirty chairs.
YIELD ONE POOR COURSE
The Civil Engineering Depart
ment has managed to successfully 
compile all of the above ingredi
ents in the recipe. Hopefully the 
situation will show marked im
provement in the near future. Mis
takes do happen ..... in this case
the impact of the total is much 
greater than the sum of the indi
vidual parts. I hope it does not 
>ccur again.
Concerned Student
TARTAN
Volume 77February 15, 1977Number 17
Editor in Chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Charles Mitch 
Jim Harper 
Joe Loughran 
Joan Konkle 
Randell Hunt 
David Roussos 
Tom Binnie 
Elliot Po,_owitz
Assistant News Editor: Eric Petersen 
Editorial Assistant: C.R. Childs
Production Assistants: Claudia Clay, Carol Dieter, Clare Nadorlik
Staff Photographers: Michael Bergman, Skip Brazelton, Rajah Chacko, Bob Cziryak.Tim Fabian, Michael Fryd, 
Chris Heck, Courtney Larson, V.R,V, Ramanan, Ken Ream, Chris Roussi, Fred Shamlian, Susanne Wilson
Copyright 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mejlon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 621- 
2600 ext. 656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

Week in Review
Cyrus Vance urged the United States to
honor the economic boycott imposed on 
Rhodesia by the United Nations. The US 
has resisted freezing its imports of Rhode
sian chrome, fearing that it would become 
dependent on Soviet chrome, but the Sec
retary of State maintained that now, tech
nology has made use of ore from South 
Africa, Brazil, and others a feasible alterna
tive. Vance noted that US adherence to 
the boycott would not only improve its 
international stature, but also apply pres
sure to the white Rhodesian government, 
thereby encouraging it to relinquish its 
dominion over blacks.' According to a UN 
report, Russia and other Eastern European 
Communist countries are secretly purchas
ing goods from Rhodesia; Russia denied 
the report.
Secretary Vance expressed hopes that 
the Geneva conference that Rhodesian Pre
mier Ian Smith has apparently abandoned 
could be revived, but he emphasized that 
Washington wouldnt officiate the negotia
tions. Vance further assured that the US 
wouldnt become involved in Rhodesian 
fighting should the talks fail.
The Equal Rights Amendment moved
marginally closer to its goal of barring sex 
discrimination as it was approved in one 
house apiece in both the North Carolina 
and Nevada legislatures, but Idaho voted to 
rescind its previous ratification, a move of 
somewhat dubious legality.
by Wendolf Dolson
Financial Assistant: Mike Davis
UPI Wire Service courtesy of WRCT
Wall Street Journals courtesy of Anthony
Rezek
President Carter reviewed a section of
the tax-revision plan that he hopes to sub
mit to Congress next fall. The President 
outlined his standard credit method 
which would involve replacing the present 
$750 personal exemption and $25-per-person credit with a standard credit-per-person 
of approximately $250. The effort would 
raise the taxes on upper-income bracket 
people, but lower them for those in the 
middle and lower brackets. The program 
would raise taxes for a significant segment 
of the population and is therefore being 
considered in tandem with a $2 billion 
rate cut.
Lloyd McBride, having apparently with
stood the insurgent Edward Sudlowskis 
challenge, received 59% of the vote (final 
results, if not clouded by legal issues, are 
not expected for several weeks). He will 
begin immediately to work on the formula
tion of a lifetime Security Plan. The 
potentially controversial program marks a 
new era in contract negotiations in which 
the USW is endeavoring to insure guaran
teed work instead of compensatory bene
fits and welfare for those layed off.
Congress is expected to ease emissions 
standards on 78 cars, but sharp disagree
ment over rules for coming years yet re
mains. The threats of closure by large auto 
manufacturers if 78 cars couldnt be built 
by 77 guidelines makes the immediate 
extension almost academic. If Congress 
doesnt approve at least a one-year exten
sion, manufacturers will face a $10,000 
fine for each and every car that doesnt 
meet the tighter emission standards. Many 
77 cars are being recalled because they are 
in violation of present air-pollution rules, 
notably some Fords and Cadillac Sevilles.
UN Secretary General Kurt Waldheim is
making a ten-day diplomatic tour of the 
Mideast in an effort to reconvene the Gene
va Mideast peace conference. Israel has 
agreed to resume talks before its May parlimentary elections, but the sticky question 
of Palestinian representation has yet to be 
resolved. Following Waldheim is Secretary 
of State Cyrus Vance who begins his sixnation trip Monday with similar intentions. 
Even optimists do not predict that the 
talks will convene before the end of March, 
though.
President Carter has suggested a recipro
cal approach to breaking the present stale
mate in SALT negotiations. F or it, he has 
named, over strong conservative protest, 
Paul Wornke. Carter also suggested certain 
joint Soviet-U.S. agreements without wait
ing for formal treaty, such as unilateral 
notification before the test-firing of any 
missiles and a two year moratorium on all 
nuclear testing.
Attorney General Griffin Bell an
nounced plans for broadening the scope of 
activities of the Federal Bureau of Investi
gation. Mr. Bell wants increased investiga
tion of the so-called white-collar crimes, 
ranging from fraud to price-fixing. Presi
dent Carter has announced a search-committee to replace the current head of the 
FBI, Clarence Kelley, who is retiring.
The federal government has lifted its 
ban on flu shots, and A-Victoria vaccine is 
currently being prepared. Washington now 
refuses to promote any kind of flu shots 
while an epidemic is unlikely and wont 
permit vaccines that protect only against 
swine flu. Risk of dying from Guillan-Barre 
paralysis after a flu shot is alike for all 
kinds of vaccines, about one in a million.
The ruling military council in Ethiopia 
is reported to have conducted widespread 
arrests since the killing of seven senior 
council members last week. They are repu
tedly arming the city officials in charge of 
housing, education, and other affairs, but 
the council has yet to name a chief of state 
to succeed the slain General Teferi Bante.
The United States launched a satellite 
that is designed to monitor launchings of 
Soviet and Chinese missiles and satellites. 
It will also test methods of destroying hun
ter satellites, currently being developed in 
both the U.S. and Soviet Russia, are war
time devices that would destroy communi
cations satellites.
The stock market continued its retreat
this week in spite of active trading. Dow 
Jones Industrials slid another 16 points to 
a new three month low, following the 
trend which has tumbled the indicator over 
70 points since the end of 1976. Investors, 
especially in the auto sector appear worried 
by President Carters reference to substan
tial sacrifices to be made by the people, 
fearing the possible implications to use of 
autos and gasoline. Observers are afraid 
that Washington, in its desire to decrease 
unemployment, will allow increased infla
tion. Unemployment did fall 0.5% in Janu
ary but is likely to jump by twice that 
amount in February due to the cold cri
sis. The usual relief that the market feels 
from increased spending power when un
employment goes down will be absorbed 
by the cold weather in heating costs and 
renewed lay-offs. Also troubling investors 
is the widespread fear of a rise in interest 
rates. Uncertainty over the current fiscal 
stimulus program is making most business
men more cautious than ever.
Want An Edge On The
Got some questions for a pro? Job Market?
Like: What's out there? 
What's expected?
Come to a meeting of SARCS 
Career Development Committee
Tomorrow (Wednesday) at 7:30 pm
in Skibo Room 12
We'll put you in touch 
with a pro!
The Student-Alumni Relations Council 
(SARC) is a relatively young organization 
on campus. It is primarily concerned with 
developing a good working relationship 
between CMU alumni and the present stu
dent body. However new SARC may be, it 
definitely has a great deal to offer virtually 
every student on campus.
Consider, for example, the Career Devel
opment committee of SARC. This commit
tee of CMU students is working jointly 
with the Alumni Office to provide a unique 
service to students. Any student interested 
in a particular field of study may desire 
some additional exposure in that field to 
supplement his or her classroom experi
ences. The Career Development committee 
will provide that student with the neces
sary information so that that particular 
student may then arrange to speak with a 
CMU alumnus who is currently practicing 
in the students field of study. This, in 
essence, will provide an interaction bet
ween a student (overloaded with academic 
exposure) and an alumnus who is eager to 
offer his or her personal advice. Clearly, 
this is in no way a job interview; instead, 
it represents a chance for CMU alumni to 
serve as a resource to those students 
seeking non-academic advice in their field 
of study.
The alumni of Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity represent a valuable resource. In the 
competitive job market of today, any edu
cation outside of the classroom will cer
tainly prove priceless. You can take advan
tage of the services offered by this com
mittee, and attend tomorrows meeting in 
Skibo, room 12 at 7:30. It will be worth 
your time.
Paid Advertisement

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 ftfr every 15 words. 
Announcements are printed FREE.
general
Ascent of Man, a documentary film series 
presenting the human dimension in the 
history of science, will be presented every 
Tuesday at 11:30 and 12:30 in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. THE MUSIC OF THE 
SPHERES (beauty in mathematics) will 
be shown on Feb. 15 and THE STARRY 
MESSENGER (Galileo and the heavens) 
on Feb. 22. There is no admission fee. 
Faculty, students and friends are welcome. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning.
Helen OBannon, former Associate Dean of 
C.I.T. and presently serving on the Public 
Utility Commission, will be this weeks 
speaker at the Thursday Luncheon Forum. 
The topic will be Environment and Public 
Regulation, rescheduled from Wednesday, 
Jan. 19 to Thursday, Feb. 17. The Lun
cheon Series, this week and every week, 
will be presented at 12:30 in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo. The programs are free and 
you, as the campus community, are wel
come. Sponsored by Campus Program 
Planning.
The following programs on topics relating 
to the relationships between businesses 
and governments will occur Wednesday 
afternoons beginning at 3:30 in the GSIA 
Auditorium. Everyone is welcome. 2/16/ 
77, Professor Merton C. Bernstein , Coles 
Professor of Law, Washington Univ., 
St. Louis: What Might We Learn From 
Labor-Business-Government Relationships 
in Western Europe?; 2/23/77, Mary Gardi
ner Jones, Vice-President Consumer Af
fairs, Western Union; Former Commis
sioner, Federal Trade Commission: Cor
porate Consumer Affairs Office - Their 
Contribution to Business Survival.; 3/2/ 
77, Ben Fischer, Assistant to the President, 
United Steel Workers of America, AFLCIO: Growing Complexities in LaborManagement Relations.; 3/8/77, (A Tues-' 
day Evening at Skibo) Panel Discussion: 
Sister Jane Scully, President Carlow 
College & Director, Gulf Oil Corp; Paul 
Schrading, Protestant Minister; Joe Levine, 
Rabbi; Dan Rosenbloom, SUPA Graduate 
Student; Jane Hart, GSIA Graduate Stu
dent; Marshall Evans, Former Director, 
Westinghouse: Ethics and Business: What 
Ethical Norms are Encouraged by the 
Present Structure of American Busi
ness Enterprise?; 3/9/77, Joseph Rhodes, 
Member, House of Representatives, Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania; 3/15/77, (A 
Tuesday, time to be announced) Jerry 
Wurf, President, American Federation of 
State, County and Municipal Employees, 
AFL-CIO; 3/16/77, Phillip I. Blumberg, 
Dean, School of Law, Univ. of Conneticut: 
Workers on the Corporate Board; 3/23/ 
77, Helen B. OBannon, Commonwealth 
Public Utility Commission, Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania; 3/30/77, Alan Barth, 
Former Editorial Writer, Washington Post, 
author; 4/6/77, Victor H. Kramer, Direc
tor, Institute for Public Interest Represen
tation, Univ. of Georgetown Law Center: 
What is Wrong with the Regulatory 
Agencies: Some Perceptions and Mis
conceptions.
ENGINEERING & PUBLIC POLICY AND
SUPA PROJECT PRESENTATION. The 
first presentation of the project team stu
dying the Allegheny County Mental 
Health/Mental Retardation Program will 
be held Tuesday, February 15 at 3:30 pm 
in the Scaife Hall Auditorium. For more 
information, call the EPP dept, at Ext. 
462.
A series of mini-courses will be offered to
students at CMU during the month of 
March. Sponsored by Campus Program 
Planning. Watch the Tartan, next week, for 
complete schedule, or check at Skibo In
formation Desk.
This year put a little love in your heart
. . . and hands by becoming a Volunteer at 
St. Francis General Hospital. Make Februa
ry 14th a red letter day for yourself. Call 
Volunteer Services at St. Francis General 
Hospital. That number is 622-4084 . . . 
and discover that love really does make 
the world go round!
Turtle Creek Valley Mental Health/Mental
Retardation, Inc. is organizing a volunteer 
program for persons interested in working 
with mentally retarded and emotionally 
disabled children, adolescents, and adults. 
Preceeding direct work with these indivi
duals, there will be a twelve session prepa
ratory training program. These sessions will 
include discussions led by professionals 
who have worked directly with mentally 
retarded and emotionally disabled indivi
duals. Special training films are planned, 
and specialized literatures will be distribu
ted. The sessions will be held on Tuesday 
and Thursday afternoons from 3:30 pm to 
5:00 pm beginning March 8, 1977, at the 
MH/MR office, and will include several on
site visits. Those completing the sessions 
will be certified as volunteers, and will be 
assigned to work in a variety of settings, 
including educational, social, and recrea
tional programs. Those interested should 
contact Mr. Jack Krouse, M.A., Turtle 
Creek Valley Mental Health/Mental Retar
dation, Inc., 723 Braddock Avenue, Braddock, Pennsylvania 15104. The telephone 
number is 351-0222.
Carnegie-Mellon University German Film 
Series presents Nosferatu (1921, silent, 
black and white, German subtitles, 62 
minutes long). The classic Dracula film, 
based upon Bram Stokers novel, but with 
interesting variations on the plot. The Bre
men secretary Hutter travels adventurously 
to Count Orlock, known as Nosferatu, in 
order to sign a bill of sale. It develops that 
Nosferatu is a vampire, and Hutter escapes 
only with difficulty. Nosferatu follows him 
and comes to Bremen, where the plague 
breaks out. Hutters young wife saves her 
husband and the city from the monster. 
Director: F.W. Murnau. Starring: Max 
Schreck, Alexander Granach, Gustav von 
Wangenheim. Dont miss this film! Shown 
Thursday, February 17 at 7:00 pm in Por
ter Hall 100. There is no admission charge; 
everyone is welcome.
ON THE SHOULDERS OF GIANTS 
Produced in celebration of the Bicentenni
al, this film shows the history of America 
as one of people and the technological 
advances they brought about. Mechanical 
engineers role in our countrys history is 
traced by spotlighting landmark appli
cations of technology to better our lives. 
From the first commercial iron works in 
1647 to Willis Carriers first use of air 
conditioning in a mine shaft in 1937, nine
teen of these milestones are covered. They 
include:
Fultons steamboat Claremont
The Chesapeake and Delaware Canals 
scoop wheel and engines
The Mount Washington Cog Railway
The Pioneer Oil Refinery - first in the 
West
San Francisco cable car railways power 
house
The Paige Compositor for newspaper 
typesetting
The Curtis Turbine - one of the first 
gas turbines used for generating electri
city
Alfred Woods twelve-foot screw pumps 
that dried out New Orleans
The U.S.S. Texas piston steam engineslast surviving and best of their kind 
On the Shoulders of Giants is a fascinat
ing look at our past and at the unique 
machines that are the basis of the Industri
al Era.
WQED-TV will show this film during Engi
neers Week, February 20-26, 1977. View
ing times are: Sunday, February 20th at 
3:45 pm; Saturday, February 26th at 8:15 
am.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
PREMEDS: The New Medical College Ad
mission Test is required for the 1978 enter
ing class for Schools of Medicine, Osteopa
thic Medicine and Podiatric Medicine. See 
A. J. Streiff, DH 2114, for your New 
MCAT Registration Packet which is availa
ble now. The Registration Packet must 
be postmarked by April 4, 1977 for the 
April 30 test. New MCAT Student Manuals 
are available in the CMU Bookstore.
Forbes Street Gallery, 5200 Forbes Ave., 
Pittsburgh, Tuesday thru Sunday: 12-4, 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday: 7-9, Exhi
bitors: Liz Reed, Linda Deafenbaugh and 
Lynn Landars will be showing Paintings, 
Sculpture, Weavings and Printmaking.
The University of Pittsburgh Press will hold
its second annual Book Sale, featuring 128 
hardbound titles and 5 paperbound titles 
on sale from their regular inventory at dis
counts up to 75%. The sale will be held 
Wednesday, March 9, and Thursday, March 
10, from 9:00 am to 5:30 pm in the Vene
tian Room of the Pitt Student Union. A 
wide variety of titles and categories will be 
sold, including books in aesthetics, anthro
pology, art, bibliography, child care, educa
tion, history, literary criticism, mental 
health, philosophy, psychology, poetry, r 
reference, sociology, urban planning and 
other subjects.
Senior Banquet has been rescheduled for
Saturday, February 19, 1977. At 7:30 
there will be a wine and cheese reception 
in the ballroom followed by the Banquet 
at 8:30 in the downstairs cafeteria. After 
dinner there will be a dance in the ball
room featuring King Solomon. During the 
dance prizes will be awarded including a 
vacation for two to St. Maarten's. Only 
seniors are eligible for prizes and you 
must be present in order to win. Dress is 
semi-formal.
You must have a ticket to attend. 
Tickets are available upon presentation 
of valid I.D. at the Alumni Office on the 
5th floor of Warner Hall. Tickets must be 
picked up no later than Feb. 17 at 5:00 
p.m. Important  you must pick up a new 
ticket. Old tickets will not be honored.
clubs
Did you ever want to learn to fly? Find out 
how to leam at the monthly meeting of the 
Tech Flying Club, - Wednesday Feb. 16th, 
7:30 pm, Rm. 45 Skibo. Everyone is wel
come. Refreshments will be served.
The CMU Science Fiction Society meets 
Sundays at 2 pm in Room 211 Skibo. New 
members are always welcome.
W3VC, the Carnegie Tech Radio Club will
hold a meeting on Wednesday, 16 Feb 77, 
at 11:30 am in HH 401. All persons on 
campus interested in amateur radio and 
related activities are invited to come. If 
you cant come, drop the club a line at 
Skibo.
scholarships awards prizes
Pennsylvania Federation of 
Democratic Women
The Awards  Three scholarships will be 
awarded, A Florence Dornblaser Memorial 
Scholarship in the amount of $300, an 
Emma Guffey Miller Memorial Scholarship 
in the amount of $300, and a Rhoda 
Gershman Scholarship (this year only) in 
the amount of $300.
Eligibility  Any deserving woman student 
in the junior class of an accredited college 
or university may apply. The awards are 
for use during her senior year. She must be 
majoring in political science, government, 
economics or history or preparing to teach 
one of these subjects. She must have good 
scholastic standing. She must be reasonably 
active in student activities. She must be a 
resident of Pennsylvania. She must estab
lish the need for financial aid. And she 
must possess a Democratic family back
ground or be an active participant in the 
affairs of the Democratic Party.
Purposes  To encourage qualified young 
women to pursue and develop interests in 
politics and government.
Deadline  Applications must be post
marked no later than May 6, 1977.
The awards will be presented to the 
winners, in person, on Monday, June 13th, 
at the Annual Convention of the Pennsyl
vania Federation of Democratic Women at 
Washington, Pennsylvania.
Applications  Applications may be obtained.by writing to:
Roberta V. Fraker 
Secretary
Memorial Scholarship Fund 
3607 School house, Lane 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17109
classified
For a Gay Time Call Buckey, 682-9053.
Counselors, over 19 for jnique overnight
boy's summer camp in Blue Ridge Moun
tains of Penna. Able to instruct either one 
of the following: Water safety, Water ski
ing, Boating, Soccer, Basketball, Athletics, 
Archery, Riflery, Ham Radio, Rocketry, 
Science, Track, Tennis, Golf, or Pioneering. 
Write Camp Director, 138 Red Rambler 
Drive, Lafayette Hill, Pa. 19444
Summer Jobs: Fifty State catalogue of
over 2000 summer job employers (with 
application forms). Send $2 to: SUMCHOICE, Box 645, State College, Pa. 
16801
Typing thesis, Dissertations, Term Papers,
etc. Ask about free copying service. Call 
Janice 421-6483.
Excellent Opportunities for College stud
ents desiring to qualify as stock-brokers 
and to earn income while ATTENDING 
COLLEGE. Financial Estate Institute OF
FERING EVENING CLASSESPoint 
Park College - 7 weeks of study. Tuition: 
$240. Call 241-6011 or 373-3300.
EUROPE via PanAm 707 for Less than 1/a
economy fare. Call toll free (6-9 pm) 
(800) 325-4867 or see your travel agent 
60-day advance payment required. UniTravel Charters
Dad, Aftef four years of college I have to
say that I ain't no virgin .... Daughter.
Daughter, after I scrimp and save to send
you to college, you mean you got the 
nerve to use the word "ain't.

---------------------------------------------------

February 15, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 5
Japanese lantern Causes Scobell Fire
by Jim Harper
Fire broke out in the first floor room 
of Steve Stolman in Scobell Hall Monday 
night, February 7, at about 8 p.m. The fire 
is believed to have been caused by a hang
ing Japanese paper lantern falling on one of 
the beds in the room. Both mattress and 
box spring were rendered unusable by the 
fire. Fortunately, no one was hurt.
Charles Harris, Battalion Chief of Pittswere placed in the room and hall to ex
haust the fumes.
William R. Blue, Assistant Superinten
dent of Maintenance and Housekeeping, 
Earle Swank, Dean of Student Affairs, and 
Charles Van Williams, Dean of Residence 
Life were at the scene to survey the dam
age and maintain order. Hill residence came 
en masse to witness the pyrotechnics and 
break the Monday night monotony.
Steve Stolman, the rooms occupant, ar
rived after the firemen had left the scene. 
His first words were, My room? .. .Any
body get hurt?
Dean Williams asked that any dorm re
sident who owns an electrified paper lan
tern please disconnect it in the interest of 
fire safety.
ISRAEL WEEK 77 AT CMU 
THURSDAY, FEB. 17 SKIBO LOBBY
I lam -1 am - Falafel Lunch
II am - 3 pm Israeli Exhibit
Gala Finale 
on Saturday Feb. 19
7:30pm Falafel Sale and Israeli Shook 
8:30pm "Israel on Stage with Zmira Henn 
Donation: $1.00 for Students 
Cafe Jerusalem follows Performance
Call 621-8875 for more Information
This
uiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiinmiiiiiiiiiiUHiiiini
WINTER HOLIDAY 
(FEB. 25  MARCH 1)
Group Air Fares Now Available 
At Travel Office Skibo 40A
? NEW YORK $79 
? BOSTON $103 
? HARTFORD $90
20 Seats Open On Each Flight
Firemen extinguishing the Scobell fire, which caused $7501000 damage.
burgh Fire District No. 2, who directed the 
activities of Elevated Platform One (from 
downtown), Engine 24 (Oakland), Engine 
and Truck 34(Squirrel Hill), Engine 28 
and Squad Two (Shadyside) estimated 
damages to room and personal property to 
be from $750 to $1000. Most of the cost 
being to clean up after fire extinguisher dis
charge and clean clothing.
Smoke was first detected by Neville 
Evans, who with Craig Warner (both RAs 
for Scobell), notified security, pulled the 
fire alarm, crashed the door and fought the 
fire unti security came to take charge and 
evacuate the residents.
Mattress and box spring, still smoking, 
were dragged from the room and hosed 
down by firemen on the_ hillside. ^ans
Movie Prices 
to Increase
continued from page 1
along with price increases for postage and 
advertising. Simon also commented that 
film admission prices have not gone up in 
three years.
When AB Films Chairperson Sue Orenstein was asked to comment about the 
proposed increase she refused to do so,
until the increase is passed by Senate.
She pointed out that nothing is finalized 
yet and things could change.
lltllllNIIIIIOtllllNltr
SAVE 111
FOOD SERVICE 
COUPON BOOK 
SALE
THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY
u o'*1'*40-,*
Good at All Food Service Facilities on Campus
tlO O* M to. AO UMOIwklwnMO
(oui ' ri110 00 toot. *J0 l?0 00 took tit 00
Available At ... .
SKIBO FOOD SERVICE OFFICE.
Room 201  Mon.-Frl. 8:30 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. 
CMU BOOKSTORE
THAT'S A VERY PRACTICAL BEACHTOWEL, DEBBIE/ YOl/SflOULD 
BE GETTING A LOT OF CALLS WITH THE NEW LONG DISTANCE
DISCOUNT RATES '.' 35% EVENINGS & 60% NIGHTS and WEEKENDS ON DIAL-DIRECT *CALLS.
^Dial-direct calls are those IntraU S Mainland calls completed from a residence or business phone without operator 
assistance or calls placed with an operator from a residence or business phone where dial-direct facilities are not available
SAVE IIIBell of Pennsylvania
Evenings 5 P.M.11 PM Sunday thru Friday 
Nights 11 P.M.8A M Everynight 
Weekends All Day Saturday Until 5 PM Sunday
ii^,'miitm!M,ihimift*iiWuHrtwiwftiiiftir.ii,nrH'.n

---------------------------------------------------

1 ! i /
Page 6 - TARTAN - February 15, 1977
Si9a
s)
COMING FOOD SERVICE 
SPECIAL EVENT 
STEAK AND EGG BREAKFAST 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22
a$ KILTIE CAFE AND MOREWOOD CAFETERIA
ss 
8
IP
I
$I
| For Free Brochure  Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE
smCCACSN
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC
P.O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION
1PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
We're going to give you one emphatic statement about the future of the computer industryand the future of your career.
APPLY!
If you have a degree, in Electrical Engineering, Mechanical 
Engineering. Computer Science, or an MBA. contact your 
placement office for further details. Digital Equipment Corpora
tion is an equal opportunity employer, m. f
mmmdigital equipment corporation
Taking MCAT or DAT in April?
Call Us Tomorrow. You'll Be Glad You Did!
Revised for the New MCAT!
Ask for Our Free Self Evaluation and Information Booklet 
Tuition: $140, plus $20 Refundable Deposit for Materials,
28 Hours, Professional Staff, Free Repeats, Oakland Location!
West Penn MCAT/DAT Review Course 
(412) 343-4441
240 WOODHAVEN DRIVE, PITTSBURGH, PA. 15228 
The Same Course Given Nationwide to Hundreds Every Year!
ENVIRONMENT AND REGULATION
Helen OBannon 
Public Utility Commission 
State of Pennsylvania
February T7 12:30 
Wherret Room, Skibo
sponsored by 
Campus Program Planning
- and
the Program in Technology 
and Humanities
Thursday Afternoon Luncheon Forum

---------------------------------------------------

February 15, 1977 - TARTAN  Page 7
Girls' School 
May Use CMU
by Robin Mager
Winchester-Thurston, a private girls 
school in the Oakland area is seeking to 
augment its educational facilities through a 
program which would enable their high 
^ school students to use the libraries, labs, 
and athletic facilities of Carnegie-Mellon 
University. Their hope is that the program, 
still in the planning stage, will be open to 
v all of their students and not just to the 
gifted ones.
The project began as a feasibility study, 
funded by the Richard King Mellon Foun
dation, by private schools in the Pittsburgh 
Q area to examine what opportunities these 
schools had to enhance their curricula.
The schools concerned were Shadyside 
Academy, Ellis School, St. Edmunds Aca
demy, and Winchester-Thurston. The com
mittee wanted to study enrollment trends 
for private schools in the area for the next 
few years, and were particularly interested 
in the feasibility of a co-ed high school 
building on the CMU campus.
The consultant for the schools, Law
rence Lieberfeld, found that enrollment for 
private schools could drop as much as 9% 
by 1985, but that it would level off again 
by 1990. However, the actual percentage 
of students would stay relatively the same 
since the number of school-age children 
is expected to drop over the next few 
years. He recommended that the schools 
form a guild to continue to explore a plan 
that would allow an expansion of facilities 
but permit the schools to still break even.
Because Lieberfeld felt that the idea 
was good, but the timing financially unfav
orable, he suggested that the schools con
tinue to try to establish a co-operative 
program with CMU.
Winchester-Thurston is the only school 
still interested in the program primarily 
because campus facilities are closer to 
them.
A spokeswoman for the Winchester 
committee, Donna Price, feels that such an 
arrangement, if acceptable to the Univer
sity, provides an excellent opportunity for 
the Winchester girls, but is concerned that 
there may not be an alternative for boys 
enrolled in private high schools.
Shadyside Academy is too far from any 
college campus to avail itself of such a 
program, while St. Edmunds Academy 
does not provide education for boys 
beyond the eighth grade level.
Winchester-Thurston School is located 
at 555 Morewood Avenue.
Cyert Comments 
on Evaluation
continued from page 1
arts college is not a desired element of the 
Carnegie-Mellon community. Since the 
strengths of H&SS must be derived to some 
extent from the strengths of the remainder 
, of the university, he adds, the educational 
thrust of the liberal arts college will be to 
give the student a professional education in 
the humanities that emphasises a broadlybased set of fundamental quantitative 
skills.
As he states, we do not see the hu
manities and social sciences at CarnegieMellon University as a counter to the 
quantitative accent of the professional 
schools or to the studio orientation of the 
fine arts. Within H&SS, we see quantitative 
skills as being as essential to a well-educat
ed person today as is a command of the 
written and spoken word. We see the humanitites and social sciences as augmenting 
and broadening professional education and 
providing a larger perspective for it, not 
simply as a counter to it.
IBM NEEDS
OUTSTANDING 
PEOPLE
And we can offer outstanding 
career opportunities in Marketing,
Engineering or Programming.
We will be interviewing at
Carnegie-Mellon University 
on March 3, 1977.
To find out about IBM and let us 
find out about you, sign up for an 
interview at the Placement Office or 
write to: Mr. LC. Pfeiffer,
College Relations Manager,
IBM Corporation,
One IBM Plaza,
Chicago, Illinois 60611.
IBM
An equal opportunity employer
TARTAN EDITORIAL BOARD ELECTIONS
On March 9 in room 11 Skibo, the TARTAN will hold elections for the 
following positions:
Editor in Chief 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Folio Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
Candidates for Editor in Chief must be members of the TARTAN staff. All other Editorial positions 
are open to any CMU student. A member of the TARTAN staff is any one who has written two ar
ticles in the last four issues of the TARTAN, or anyone whose name is listed in the masthead. All 
members of the TARTAN staff are eligible to vote.
Those interested should inquire at the TARTAN office. Skibo 52.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - TARTAN - February 15, 1977
ARE GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AND TAXES DRIVING YOU BANANAS?
Hon. William E. Simon
"The Incredible Bread Machine 
. . . does the best job that I have 
ever seen of explaining the 
economic facts of life to the 
American people.
WATCH FOR
THE INCREDIBLE BREAD MACHINE 
TELEVISION SPECIAL
William E. Simon, Secretary of the Treasury, with young authors of this free market film.
The Gone With The Wind of Economics Outrageous, Gutsy, Provocative, Delightful, And Maybe A Little Shocking.
WITH ARGUMENTS BY
FEB. 20,1:00 P.M. 
WIIC-TV [NBC] CHANNEL 11 
PITTSBURGH
Dr. Walter W. Heller
"As the 'Bread Machine film suggests, there is a new spirit grow
ing in the land, not simply an inchoate mood of resentment against 
Big Government, but serious and systematic thought, combined 
with a flair and expertise in organization and communication. 
America could hardly have a better birthday present in the year of 
its Bicentennial, an anniversary that should remind us of the 
profound devotion of the American Revolutionaries to individual 
liberty
-fortune
Dr. Milton Friedman
"A splendid film. It portrays very 
dramatically and graphically 
many of the problems that arise 
when we turn over a large por
tion of our lives to bureaucrats.
"Its well done, but it does bother 
me that you put together such a 
chamber of horrors about gov
ernment interference.
Dr. Benjamin Rogge
______ "The economic analysis is abso-P
lutely sound and the communica
tion is magnificent.
For detailed information contact: World Research, Inc., 11722 Sorrento Valley Ftoad, San Diego. California 92121 (714) 755-9761 or 276-9620

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
EVITA: STORY OF A LEGENDARY FIGURE
by David C. Lucas
Lately, the entertainment media have 
shown a preoccupation with historical 
figures. People interested in that kind of 
amusement will probably find the pop 
opera Evita very enjoyable.
Here is a story: A teenaged girl living in 
a South American village dreams of going 
to the big city to find excitement and 
glamour. She wins the affections of a trav
elling tango singer and talks him into tak
ing her to the capitol of the country. Once 
there, she drops him like a hot batata. The 
girl metamorphoses into a svelte, golden
haired beauty and becomes a radio and 
film star. Not content on the top of the 
theatrical heap, the actress makes the ac
quaintance of a soldier with political am
bitions. She senses his leadership qualities 
and works her way into his favor. When 
the political temperature is right, the sol
dier becomes president of the country. His 
young and beautiful ex-actress wife gains 
the love and respect of millions of workers 
while at the same time gaining enemies in 
the military and aristocratic classes. And, 
as if it were timed, she drops dead when 
the opposition gets too strong.
rock music in the eyes of a serious listen
ing audience. And could there possibly be 
a more popular subject than the son of 
God?
Evita is a step in a different direction. 
The name Eva Peron is probably unfamiliar 
to anyone under thirty. Since Webber and 
Rices primary audience is in that age 
group, the opera seems to be an attempt to 
revive her status as a cult heroine.
The key to the nature of Evita lies in 
the fact that the work is referred to as sim
ply an opera. Although it will doubtless 
be called a rock opera, it never claims to 
have rock leanings. The album leans more 
to the pop side of the musical spectrum. It 
borrows repeatedly from film scores and 
includes musical touches from varied artists 
such as Barry Manilow, Led Zepplin, and 
Johann Strauss.
But the influence Evita works best with 
is that of the Broadway theater. It displays 
a fantastic use of theatrical devices and 
cliches. Musical themes are presented and 
repeated later to signify different emotion
al states. The character of Eva, in particu
lar, changes from pristine sweetness to 
menacing bitchiness just by the inflections
The story is true. The girl is Eva Duarte. 
The country is Argentina. The big city is 
Buenos Aires. The soldier is Colonel Juan 
Peron. Eve Peron, known to her beloved 
descamisados (the shirtless ones) as Evita, 
died of cancer at the age of thirty-three in 
1952.
Here is another story: The lyricist of u 
British songwriting team is listening to a 
BBC radio documentary on the life of Eva 
Peron. By the time it is through, he is 
bubbling over with enthusiasm. This is the 
story he has been waiting for! For the next 
two years he and his partner draft, write 
and produce a 103 minute opera based on 
the life of Argentine folk heroine Eva Perone.
This story, as you might have guessed, is 
true also. The lyricist is Tim Rice. His part
ner, with whom he wrote Joseph and the 
Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat and Jesus 
Christ Superstar, is Andrew Lloyd Webber. 
And the new opera is entitled Evita.
Jesus Christ Superstar is a tough act to 
follow. When it was released, seven years 
ago, (doesnt that make you feel old?) the 
rock opera was an attempt to legitimize
naivete which would allow him to be con
trolled by Eva.
The good songs in Evita are strung to
gether with bits and pieces of Bmovie 
spectacle sound effects, solos by the Lon
don Philharmonic, choral interludes (album 
features three assorted choirs) and verses 
from previous numbers.
On This Night of a Thousand Stars/Eva 
and Magaldi/Beware of the City features 
Tony Christie as the cabaret singer, Magaldi. Against a background of samba music 
and applause, Christie gives a perfect imita
tion of Tom Jones. Afterwards, Eva de
clares that she wants to be a part of B - A, 
Buenos Aires, Big Apple.
When Eva and Magaldi arrive in the city,
of her voice and the change of melody. At 
the end, when her control of the situation 
is weakening, there is a rapid shifting of 
characters and themes.
At first, the placement of Julie Coving
ton in the lead seems like miscasting. Her 
Cockney accent and lovely voice seem to 
be more suited to Maria Von irapp in sum
mer-stock productions of The Sound of 
jvfusic than to the Argentine Rose in Evita. 
But as the album continues, she seems 
more natural for the job.
C. T. Wilkinson sings the part of Che, 
the young research chemist who tries to 
peddle his insecticide formula throughout 
the opera. He represents Che Guevera, the 
revolutionary who studied biochemistry in 
his native Argentina and was an opponent 
of the Peronist regime. Che has the role of 
narrarator in the opera. His attitude to
wards Eva changes from that of kinship to 
disgust in the course of 103 minutes. Wil
kinson rasps his way through the opera 
with vigor and flair.
Paul Jones, who once sang with Manfreu 
Mann, has the part of Juan Peron. He in
stills in the character the vulnerability and
she sings the number, Buenos Aires. This 
song has the dense sound and clever, quick
ly sung lyrics characteristic of a Broadway 
rocker.
In Id Be Surprisingly Good For You a 
silken-voiced Eva begins her seduction of 
Col. Peron. The soft and sensuous song 
lures Peron into Evas trap. In a brash and 
oddly melodic last verse, each party sings 
of using the other.
In Another Suitcase in Another Hall, 
Eva evicts Perons present mistress. The 
Lovely'voiced Barbara Dickenson explains 
her plight. Che and a chorus give the melodically beautiful, yet ruthless reply. This 
song should be an easy target for budding 
chanteuses looking for a hit single.
A New Argentina is grinding heavymetal. Union leaders and a screaming Eva 
sing Perons praises. The one-time actress 
makes it clear that she has things under 
control. She reprimands her husband when 
he repeats the tune in a passive, violin
laden refrain. This tune is successful as 
rock, as theater and as opera.
Evas big number is On the Balcony of 
the Casa Rosada/Dont Cry Argentina. This 
ballad is a musical expression of her ability 
to evoke pity while retaining her beauty 
and composure. The tune combines the up
dated Romanticism of Chicagos AM 
Mourning/PM Mourning with the south - 
of - the - border hocum of Abbas Fernan
do. A gigantic crowd chants their support 
and Eva voices her reply in an interlude 
that swiped its orchestral arrangement 
from a Panovision Viking saga.
In Rainbow High, Eva makes plans for 
her whirlwind tour of Europe. She calls to 
her beauty consultants, (I came from the 
people/ They need to adore me/ So Christ
ian Dior me.. .Im their product/ its vital 
you sell me/ So Machiavell-me. The ar
rangement is vocally and musically dazzl
ing. Especially exciting is the chorus of al
ternating fashion designers.
After Eva has rejected Ches suggestion 
for marketing his insecticide, they engage 
in a final duet. Waltz for Che and Eva is 
full of snappy, double-edged remarks. This, 
combined with the full-blown waltz ar
rangement make it as good as anything 
Rogers and Hammerstein ever did. The lav
ish orchestration is precise and detailed, 
making it evident that the situation is a 
farce.
Other numbers in the opera are not sign
ificant on their own, such as the fragment
ed Dice Are Rolling or the introduction,^ 
Cinema in Buenos Aires, 26 July 1952, 
which contains the dialogue of an old 
Spanish movie.
Still, Evita establishes Tim Rice and 
Andrew Lloyd Webber as masters of theat
rical music. The new opera is extremely 
successful in that vein, if not in the straight 
rock field. It will be interesting tc see 
whether the expected stage and screen 
productions of Evita can translate the 
superb auditory theatrics into visuals.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10  TARTAN  February 15, 1977
VOYAGE FROM THE NAZIS
by Russ Militello
On May 5, 1939, the luxury liner St. 
Louis departed Hambourg Germany head
ed for Havana Cuba. At the dock were the 
usual family, friends and tearful goodbyes. 
The reason for the ships departure, how
ever, was far from commonplace. The St. 
Louis 937 passengers were all Jewish. 
Everyone was hand picked by German 
Nazi official Goebbel. There were Jews 
from all social positions, from doctors to 
prison camp inmates. They believed them
selves fortunate because they were escaping 
Hitlers persecution.
Days later the St. Louis arrived in Ha
vana. As the gangplank was being lowered, 
the Cuban police blocked it and would not 
let the passengers disembark. They had no 
intention of letting them off. The Nazis 
had struck again.
At this point the new movie, The Voy
age of the Damned, is half over. There 
hasnt been much excitement on board, 
just some tension between passengers and 
crew. The film now begins to focus in on 
the individual passengers, by giving some 
character insight and background. Their 
feelings differentiate between the realists 
and the idealists. Mrs. Kreisler, the wife of 
a doctor, sets the tone of the movie with 
her ominous phrase, Will we ever come 
back?. From then on the audience, too, is 
skeptical. She is contrasted with Mrs. Ros
en, the wife of a lawyer, who states, The 
years of being afraid are over.. .we are the 
lucky ones. The attitudes of the passen
gers usually reflect their social positions. 
The poor are hopeful and expect a lot, the 
rich are cynical and realistic.
The crew is caught somewhere in the
middle of all of this. Each crew member 
has a stake in what is going on aboard the 
ship. Gunther, the cabin boy, is a Jew 
lover because he has fallen in love with 
the Rosens daughter. The maitred is the 
head of the Nazi party on the ship and 
doesnt like this sort of fraternization. The 
captain, being in the middle of all the ten
sion, sums up the situation better than any
one else, We are being used.
The factions are struggling on shore as 
well. The Cuban officials are intent on 
keeping the refugees out while an Ameri
can official, Mr. Tropper, is fighting for 
their rights. It is a many sided battle and 
no one is willing to give in. By the time it 
ends, there are many more sides involved 
and only the fittest survive.
The cast list for Voyage of the Damned 
is impressive. The cast includes Faye Dun
away, Max Von Sydow, Oskar Werner, Or
son Welles, James Mason, Lee Grant, Ben 
Gazzara,and Katherine Ross to name a few. 
With a cast like this, the movie cant help 
but be outstanding, at least in terms of per
formances.
Lee Grant, as Mrs. Rosen, gives not only 
one of the best performances in the movie 
but also one of the best of her career. Her 
role utilizes her full emotional range. Lili 
Rosen suffers through the attempted sui
cide of her husband and the actual suicide 
of her daughter that leads to her own ner
vous breakdown. Each of her transitions 
are handled exquisitely.
Max Von Sydow gives an outstanding 
performance as the Captain caught be
tween duty and conscience. Comparative
ly, his role is not as demanding as Grants, 
but his performance is strikingly believable. 
His power for characterization is used to
CASSANDRA ILL WITH PLAGUE
by Carol Green
Originality and subtlety are qualities 
that are absent from The Cassandra Cros
sing. It is reminiscent of watching The 
Andromeda Strain, only this time the 
killer disease is threatening people on a 
train in Europe. The story is predictable 
to the extent that one can anticipate the 
action long before it appears on the screen.
The movie opens at the International 
Health Organization in Geneva, a big white 
sterile looking edifice. Intruders are caught 
going inside and get backed into a clearly 
marked Top Secret, Keep Out section 
of the facility. A bottle filled with an evillooking yellow fluid is broken and the in
truders get exposed to some incurable
germ. We know this by the way the 
camera keeps zooming in on bottle.
One intruder escapes from the health 
facility and boards a train headed for 
Stockholm. It is obvious he will be the 
spreader of this killer disease, which is later 
identified as the Pneumonic Plague. The 
cure for the plague is found to be pure 
oxygen, but it is not found in time. The 
train has been ordered to cross a con
demned bridge, called Cassandra Crossing, 
to get to a quarantine site. But it is doubt
ful whether the train can make it across 
the bridge.
Unfortunately, all of this can be figured 
out about thirty minutes into the film. 
This is partially because the film is similar 
to other movies with incurably diseased
the fullest.
Faye Dunaway and Oskar Werner por
tray the sophisticated, chic Kreislers. These 
two work off each other very well, al
though alone their performances seem to 
lack vitality. Her characterization is some
what stilted, due partially to the fact that 
her character is written rather nondescriptly. As Dr. Kreisler, Werner has fury and fire 
most of the time, but on occasion this fire 
turns to fizzle. His performance is some
what inconsistent due to his confusingly 
written character.
The best acting is done by members of 
the supporting cast. Nehemiah Persoff and 
Maria Schell portray a couple who have a 
daughter, played by Katherine Ross, teach
ing m Cuba. They find when they arrive 
that she is actually a high priced call-girl 
and mistress to several top government of
ficials. Due to this position, she is allowed 
on board the ship to see her parents. This 
reunion scene is the best in the movie, 
highlighted by the brilliant performances 
of Persoff and Schell and a surprising per
formance by the hitherto untested Ross. 
Although her character is written some
what stereotypically, her performance is 
totally unique. Other noteworthy perfor
mances are given by Julie Harris, James
Mason, Sam Wanamaker as Mr. Rosen, and 
Ben Gazzara as Mr. Tropper.
There are few bad points to the film, 
the major one being its excessive length. 
The length is unnecessary, as there are 
many tedious and trivial scenes that could 
be cut without any harm to the movie. An
other weakness is that it tends to be maud
lin. It is difficult to handle such a sensitive 
topic without some sentiment, but in spots 
it is overdone. A third weak point is the 
ending. It comes so abruptly that it left the 
movie incomplete by cutting it off right at 
the climax. In another movie this type of 
ending might be effective, but it doesnt 
quite make it in this one. These latter two 
criticisms are minor, and these flaws dont 
effect the overal quality of the movie.
The Voyage of the Damned is an artist
ically beautiful movie about a not too pret
ty and sensitive topic. The photography, 
costumes, performances, and Lalo Schafrins music, are all excellent. The film is 
based on a true incident, although some of 
the names have been changed. Under these 
circumstances, the movie could have easily 
turned into a documentary. This is partial
ly due to the fact that the incident seems 
too cruel to be a true story, but mostly be
cause the movie is treated with enough art
istic creativity and imagination to make it 
seem fictional.
plots, but also because nothing is left to 
the imagination. Instead of just showing 
the action, the film comments on itself 
and keeps restating and re-enforcing 
actions.
Some of the more blatant examples 
are the sequences that are shown once the 
infected intruder is on the train. The 
viewer is led everywhere with the intru
der, like an adult dragging around a small 
child. The director is too fearful of losing 
us. It becomes a major flaw in this film. 
First, we get a shot of the man hiding in 
the baggage compartment. He drinks some 
water from a dog dish he finds in the 
section. The camera keeps zooming in on 
the dish and the dog as constant unne
cessary reminders that the dog is going to 
get sick. The man then goes into the 
passenger section. He touches a little 
baby, (zoom in on baby), a little girl, 
(zoom in on little girl), and various adults 
(zoom in on them, too). The intruder finds 
his way into the kitchen where he coughs 
on a bowl of rice, (zoom in on bowl 
of rice). This re-enforcement of fact is 
unnecessary. Even the dullest member of 
the audience could follow the story with
out all of the visual spoon-feeding. Such a 
point is made of trying to leave no stones 
unturned that the flaws become all the 
more obvious.
Flawed too was the acting, which 
simply was not there. Burt Lancaster plays
a hard, cold order-following military man. 
But there was no dimension to the charac
ter. Perhaps lack of dimension was the 
point the film was trying to make about 
his character. This is doubtful, however, 
because that would be too subtle and not 
in keeping with the style of the rest of the 
film. Watching Mr. Lancaster in this film 
is like watching a pedestrian read lines. 
No acting is being done.
Sophia Loren has an easier task on her 
hands. She has fewer lines and is often 
required to just look nice. The lines that 
she has are rather poor, but she does what 
she can with them and occasionally hits 
home. This is no easy matter when yov 
consider that most of her lines are die' 
from old passionate romance scripts.
What the script lacks in substance it 
attempts to make up for with special 
effects. They range from fairly realistic 
to something that would look bad next to 
a cheaply made Disney feature. None of 
the effects are subtle and they might as 
well be announced with fanfares. It is 
the contrast between the well-done and 
the not-well-done that makes all the 
effects look so bedraggled.
The Cassandra Crossing becomes so 
caught up in spoon-feeding the audience 
that it becomes cluttered. Some originality 
and subtlety might have made for more 
interesting viewing. Intellectually stimu
lating the film is not.
feroce Vnrva-n
?????????????????????????????????????????????????? 
FOOD SERVICE HOT LINE TO THE DIRECTOR EVERY MONDAY 5 TO 6 P.M. EXT. 653 or 654

---------------------------------------------------

February 15, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 11
MASS-BUFFET-DISCUSSION 
CMUs CHAPEL (SKIBO RM39) 
6:30 P.M. -v ,rwitfWf)-
M; : Theme: The Meaning of
Lent!
'Vit'
SUNDAY MASSES: 7:00 P.M. Saturday Evening
Tech House: 5125 Margaret Morrison 
10:30 A.M. Science Hall Room 7500
DAILY MASSES:12:30 Noontime Monday through FridayCMU's Chapel (Skibo Room 39)
&
University of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMU Campus - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
CMU's R. C. Chaplaincy 681-3181
Getaway for the weekend.
per day plus 1GC 
per mile
Monte Carlo or similar car
You pay for the gas and return car to any location listed. Available Friday noon 
til Monday noon. Or if you're planning a trip over the Christmas-New Year holiday, try National's 6-day rate on a Nova or similar car for $119. You get 1,000 
miles at no extra charge on this ONE-WAY rate. Bring the car back to Pittsburgh 
and theres no mileage charge! You pay for gas. Rates are non-discountable and subject to change without notice. National also has 6 and 7-day rates on other car sizes. Call for reservations today:
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444
550 Grant Street 261-5500
Greater Pittsburgh Airport 262-2312
We feature GM cars.
*Rat subject to change without notice.
National Car Rental
ou*
opP
*****
*\\\&e
^/\\foO*, aQ ^5*eSV NOM' N
re^ .oftvce
tcoo'
OP0toV's
opP
fcOM0'
THE GRILL 
n\LUNCHEON SPECIALS 
THIS WEEK
11:00-AM-2:00 PM
TAftTAN Grill Specials
WEDNESDAY 16th
Triple Decker, Fries,
Medium Soft Drink..........................................99
THURSDAY 17th
Wafer Steak, Fries,
Medium Soft Drink............................................99
FRIDAY 18th
Grilled Cheese Sandwich,
Tomato Soup .....................................................77
MONDAY 21st
Hamburger, Fries,
Medium Soft Drink............................................68
TUESDAY 22nd
Julienne Salad, Soup of the
Day, Medium Soft Drink...................................99
FREE TEA, 3:00 - 4:00 pm MON.- FRI.
A B COFFEEHOUSE
presents
NORMAN BLAKE
SAT. MARCH 5 .
9:00 P.M. 
MOREWOOD GARDENS CAFETERIA
also apearing
DICK BAKER
REFRESHMENTS
FREE

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
ASCENT OF MAN
Tuesday Documentary Film Series
Film times: 1t30 & 12=30 Wherrett Room,Skibo
BRING YOUR LUNCH AND A FRIEND
FEB 15
22 MAR 8
The Music of the Spheres \ v 
The Starry Messenger 
The Majestic Clockwork
NEED EXTRA 
MONEY????
If you are a healthy MALE, age 20-30,150-200 pounds. 
Volunteers are needed for Bioavailability Testing 
Program on absorption rates of prescription 
medications. All Studies are conducted under struct 
medical supervision.
 Program involves small blood samples drawn 
at various times throughout the study.
 Physical exams will be given in Room 335,
Hotel Webster Hail 
... Each Wednesday, 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
(No lunch 4 hour fast, water only) 
... Each Thursday, 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. 
(No breakfastfast, water only) 
NEW volunteers will be given $10 for taking our 
physical exam, including complete blood chemistries. 
Pay scale ranges from $50-500, depending upon 
requirements of the study.
For Complete Details, Please Call
Biodecision Laboratories, Inc.
Ro .m 335, Webster Hall, 4415 Fifth Avenue 
682-2022
Or Come directly to the Physical Exam 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OH AGE)
ART___
The Museum of Art Theater at Carnegie
Institute springs into action, beginning 
February 19, as the 23-year-old Lovelace 
Theater for the first time presents two new 
productions of puppet theater in the inti
mate, modern Oakland showcase.
"Ragtime and All That Jazz" and a new 
stage adaptation of Moliere's "Love's the 
Best Doctor" will each play 21 shows in 
the two seven-week spans. "Ragtime", 
using an historic medley of jazz music in 
multiple forms, from Dixieland through 
the modernists, is the first attraction  a 
world premiere by the acclaimed Lovelace 
Theater.
Tickets for the two humanistic puppettheater presentations are now available by 
discounted subscription only, costing only 
$4 for each two-play series. The Lovelace 
stage creations are designed to entertain 
"youth of all ages"  both adults and 
school-age youngsters. For further infor
mation about subscriptions phone the 
Lovelace Theater at 361-4835.
A private collection of Pre-Columbian
Pottery from the Colima area of western 
Mexico has been anonymously lent to the 
Arts and Crafts Center for display in the 
Lois I. Clifford Gallery until February 27. 
In contrast to art from other Mexican cul
tures, that of Colima has no theological or 
mathematical speculation, no symbolism, 
and very little preoccupation with death. 
It is a cheerful, popular art depicting daily 
life with a spontaneity of expression. The 
clay figures are simplified almost to the 
point of abstraction.
The Arts and Crafts Center is located 
at Fifth and Shady Avenues, is free and
this season by CMU's newly established 
Opera Theatre. The season's final program, 
to be presented in March, will feature 
Purcell's "Dido and Aeneas" and Bartok's 
"Bluebeard's Castle", both directed by 
James Lucas, stage director of the Opera 
Workshop at the Manhattan School of 
Music.
The three performances of "Vanessa" 
are open to the public. Admission is $2.00; 
reservations and further information can be 
obtained from the CMU music department, 
621-2600, extension 433. Tickets will be 
held for 48 hours.
The happy spirited strains of Dixieland
music resound in Heinz Hall as the renown
ed Preservation Hall Jazz Band plays one 
concert on Sunday, March 6 at 8 p.m. 
Tickets fro the Heinz Hall concert are on 
sale at the Heinz Hall box office and ticket 
counters in Kaufmann's, Hornes, Gimbels, 
Sears and all National Record Marts.
THEATRE
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will
hold over its current production, OUT 
CRY, by Tennessee Williams, through 
March 26. * OUT CRY was scheduled to 
close Sunday, Februrary 27, however, as 
of this date, all performances are sold out 
through February 20.
The extra performances will run only on 
Friday and Saturday evenings, March 4-5,
11-12, 18-19,25-26, at 8:30 p.m. Advance 
reservations are esssential, and can be made 
by calling 621-2876.
Saturday, February 19, The Lackzoom
Acidophilus Comedy Hour will be per
forming at the Lutheran Center, 4515 
Forbes, across from Scaife Gallery, 9:30 
p.m. Tickets are $1.50.
open to the public with ample parking. 
Hours are Tuesday through Saturday,
10-5, Sunday 2-5 and closed Monday.
MUSIC
The Carnegie-Mellon Trio will present
chamber music by LoeiI let, Schumann, and 
Schubert at a concert set for Monday, Feb
ruary 21 at 8 p.m. in the Kresge Theatre on 
the CMU campus.
Tickets for the concert are $3.50 and 
can be obtained by mailing a check payable
to the CMU music department and a 
stamped, self-addressed envelope to the 
CMU Trio, Department of Music, CarnegieMellon University, Schenley Park, Pitts
burgh, Pa. 15213. Student tickets are $2.00 
and will be sold only at the door. Proceeds 
of the concert will be used to support the 
CMU music department scholarship fund.
Carnegie-Mellon University's Opera Theatre
will present the Pittsburgh premiere of 
Samuel Barber's "Vanessa", February 22 
through 24 at 8 p.m. in Alumni Concert 
Hall in the University's Fine Arts Building. 
"Vanessa" is the third opera presented
The Preservation Hall Jazz Band

---------------------------------------------------

reurudiy u, 10/i n i 1  i aye 1 J"

HARVEY, BIG RED ERASE HIRAM
 , p. f and then changed to a game plan that realTed McDivitt, a 63 junior who always proud of.
SPORTS
by Bob Firm
Carnegie-Mellons All-E very thing guard, 
George Harvey, stole an inbounds pass with 
only four seconds remaining and swished a
12 foot jumper at the buzzer to lead the 
Tartans to another heart-stopping victory 
over the host Hiram Terriers, 56-54.
Hiram appeared to be in the drivers seat 
with the game tied at 54s and the ball at 
midcourt following an offensive foul on 
Harvey that could be described as ques
tionable at best. The Terriers had called 
time to set the final play.
Ray Vaughn attempted to inbound the 
ball to Ernie Pasqualone, but Harvey 
stepped in front amid some contact with 
Pasqualone, dribbled into position, and 
arched home the clutch hoop.
Harvey commented on the play, I 
saw it coming when Pasqualone gave me a 
little fake inside and started cutting to 
midcourt. As I was following him, I picked 
up that Vaughn was looking directly at 
Pasqualone and I knew thats where the 
pass was going.
Coach Dave Maloneys Tartans are 
riding high, wide, and handsome in the 
Presidents Athletic Conference race. CMU 
has a perfect 9-0 record in the PAC and a 
two game lead with only five to play. The 
win pushed the victory streak to 12 and 
Techs overall record to 14-2.
The game was a dribbling and passing 
exhibition much of the time as both CMU 
and Hiram went to the four comers offense 
early and often. The Terriers raced to an 
early 10-6 lead using their bread-and-butter 
fast break to perfection.
Then Coach Bill Hollinger had his team 
go into a stall. This appeared to be a major 
tactical error because Hiram had CMU on 
the run in more ways than one. The Terri
ers were winning with what they do best
ly wasnt their style.
It was too difficult to freeze the ball for
15 minutes as the Terriers soon learned. 
The only offense they generated was occa
sional layups by Tony Bolden, but that 
wasnt enough to hold the Tartans back
Turnovers were the major factor in 
bringing CMU into the thick of things. 
Tech scored three hoops in a matter of 
seconds to tie the game at 21-21. Les Har
per, who had another outstanding game 
on the boards, connected from the corner; 
Larry DiCicco converted two free throws 
after being fouled on a fast break; and Har
vey scored a layup after a steal with 6:18 
remaining in the first half.
When Hiram missed their next time 
down the floor, CMU went to the four cor
ners tactics with six minutes left in the first 
half. Now the Dogs were doing all the chas
ing. They couldnt chase well, however, 
as Harvey soon gave the Tartans their first 
lead since early in the game with a driving 
three point play.
CMU poured it on till halftime using the 
spread formation excellently. Tech outscored the Ohio school, 20-3 over the last 
6:30 to take a 35-24 lead into the locker 
room. The margin was built on two key 
elements, ball handling and rebounding.
Harvey, DiCicco, and Ralph DeaBrunzzo made few mistakes in running the four 
corners offense which provided many easy 
scoring opportunities. Marty Costa and 
Harper were demons on the backboards as 
they limited Hiram to only one shot every 
time down the floor.
CMU started the last 20 minutes in the 
same stall offense that had been so success
ful in the first half. The results, however, 
were not as the Tartan fans present might 
have hoped for. Turnovers and cold shoot
ing at the outset of the final stanza allowed 
Hiram to get back in the game.
seems to play well against the Tartans, got 
hot from the outside and brought Hiram 
into striking distance. The hosts regained 
the lead midway through the second half 
on a basket by Joe Williams, 46-45, and 
things stayed nip and tuck the rest of the 
way.
DeaBrunzzos long range jump shot 
knotted the count at 50s with 6:11 left 
Hiram went to the stall, looking for the 
good shot. McDivitt missed and Costa 
pulled down the bound with only four 
minutes left.
CMU again employed the four comers 
as they had done for practically the entire 
second half. Harvey had the ball stolen 
from him in the comer, but Hirams long 
pass was intercepted by DeaBrunzzo in a 
style that any football free safety would be
proud of.
Harvey, tired by handling the ball about 
75% of the time in the dribbling act, drove 
in for a basket with 3:12 showing on the 
clock and a 52-50 Tech advantage. When 
Pasqualone missed from deep in the comer 
and CMU rebounded, the Tartans were 
sitting pretty.
CMU held the ball until the two minute 
mark when Harvey was fouled to bring 
about a 1-1 situation. Harvey continued his 
season long streek of connecting in the 
clutch by convertng twice to push the lead 
to four, 54-50.
Hiram needed a hoop in the worse kind 
of way, but nothing would fall for them. 
The Tartans got the ball with 1:29 left. 
CMU couldnt hold the ball or the lead as 
the Terriers came up with two important 
continued on page 14
Miss Jane Fisk, coach of the women's basketball 
season. Here she implores team members to keep
the team hit rocky roads so far this 
plugging durir.3 Saturday's loss to Geneva 79-32.
TECH
FLYING
CLUB
WED. 167 : 30 P.MSKIBO 45

---------------------------------------------------

ICERS TIE LEADER-GAIN THIRD
by Bill Oakley
As the saying goes, hockey is a game of 
inches, and the CMU Tartans came within 
inches of beating undefeated Indiana Uni
versity of Pennsylvania last Saturday after
noon. As it was the Tartans had to settle 
for a 44 tie with league leading IUP. The 
game was the icers most impressive effort 
to date, and it showed that the Tartans can 
skate with any team in the league.
The game was a see-saw battle, with the 
lead changing several times. The first peri
od was close checking, with IUP emerging 
with a 1-0 lead. Todd Bunting beat CMU 
goalie Don Jacobson on a screen shot from 
the point for the first goal of the game. 
IUP had a slight edge in shots on goal for 
the period.
The second stanza saw the lead change 
hands as the Tartans stormed back. Tom 
Grimm opened the CMU scoring at 2:50 
of the period when he was sent in alone on 
IUP goalie Ken Ehscoe on a pass from Bill 
Oakley. Grimm fired the puck through 
Ehscoes pads to knot the score. IUP took 
the lead again at 3:11 on a goal by Perry 
Balkey, but the lead did not last long. 
CMUs Ken Trumpfeller tied it at 2-2 with 
an unassisted breakaway goal at 3:54. A 
disputed goal at 8:21 gave IUP the lead 
once again.
Gary Montebell shot from a goalmouth 
scramble and the puck stopped on the goal 
line. However, the referee thought that the 
puck crossed the line, and awarded IUP the 
goal. CMU took the lead for the first time 
in the game with two unanswered goals. 
Ken Trumpfeller scored his second goal of 
the game, on a nice pass from Bob Hon, to 
tie the game at 3 apiece. Murray Leety 
gave the Tartans the lead with a goal at 
13:24 of the period. Assists went to 
Trumpfeller and Hon. The period ended 
with the Tartans leading 4-3.
TERRIERSSTOMPED
continued from page 13
steals on what appeared to be fouls. Pas
qualone and Bolden made the fast break 
hoops to even the score at 54-54.
CMU called time with 31 ticks left on 
the clock to set the final strategy, which 
was to wait for the final shot. Harvey 
started his move to the hoop with about 
nine seconds left and was called for the 
charge with 0:04 showing.
The rest of Harveys heroics became 
history when the large throng of CMU 
followers at the contest mobbed the 5 11 
star. The Hiram rooters were in a state of 
shock as they witnessed a home defeat for 
the first time in years.
Harvey put on a spectacular perfor-' 
mance. He led all scorers with 25 points. 
The former Air Force sergeant, who once 
averaged 45 points per game, in service 
ball, accounted for 15 of CMUs 21 second 
half points. DiCicco and Harper used fine 
first half efforts to contribute 12 and 10 
points, respectively.
Hiram used a balanced attack. Boldens 
layups provided much of his 14 points. 
McDivitts second half shooting was the 
key to his 13 tallies. Pasqualone added 12 
markers, well below his average.
A major factor was CMLPs domination 
of the glass. The Tartans out rebounded 
the Terriers, 36-28, Costa, Harper, and 
Harvey carried much of the load.
Carnegie-Mellon faces two PAC oppo
nents at home this week. The Tartans take 
on John Carroll tomorrow night at 8:00 
pm. A large crowd should be on hand to 
root the Tartans on to the PAC champion
ship and a berth in the NCAA playoffs.
The final period was once again close 
checking. The only goal of the period 
belonged to IUP. Randy North scored at 
10:28 of the period to knot the score 
at 4-4, which is the way the game ended. 
The final shots on goal totals showed IUP 
holding an edge 26-15.
The Tartans 4-4 tie with IUP on Satur
day was preceded by a 5-2 loss, also against 
IUP. This game was played Thursday night 
at Belmont. In the game the Tartans played 
well for two periods, holding IUP to a 2-2 
tie in them. However, a letup in the second 
period cost the Tartans the game.
The Tartans record is now 2-3-1, and 
they hold third place and a playoff spot. 
Their next game is Sunday against Slippery. 
Rock at Meadville, and their next home 
game is March 12 against Penn State 
McKeesport at the Civic Arena.
Saturday, the CMU Tankers took on John Carroll and Case Western 
Reserve Universities in a double dual meet at Case. CMU left the meet with 
a record of 4-2, ending the day with a loss to powerhouse John Carroll 
68-45, and a win, edging CWRU by 57-56. The Tankers will take on Alleg
heny Saturday the 26th, here at home, 2:00 p.m. Bob Frye (above) shows 
off his style with Coach Donna Pecman and team members looking on.
MOTOROLA SEMICONDUCTOR GROUP 
PHOENIX, ARIZONA
Will be on campus Mar. 7,1977
Interviewing B.S. & M.S. level candidates in the following
disciplines:
 Electrical Engineering
 Physics
 Chemical Engineering
Opportunities in research & development, design, 
product, process, system applications, and marketing/ 
sales engineering.
See your placement office for interview appointment or 
send a resume to:
Motorola, Inc.
Semiconductor Group 
College Recruiting 
P.O. Box 20903 
Phoenix, Arizona 85036
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
challenge
Heres the challenge. Youll need a watch in numerical order. When youve reached 
and a pencil. Start with number 1 in the cennumber 60, check your watch. If it took you 
ter of the ribbon. Then, as quickly as you less than three minutes, youve met the 
can, cross out every number, one at a time challenge.
When theres a challenge, quality makes the difference.
We hope you have some fun with the challenge. 
Theres another challenge wed like to offer you, too.
The Pabst challenge:
We welcome the chance to prove the quality of 
our beer. We challenge you to taste and compare 
Pabst Blue Ribbon to any other premium beer. Youll 
like Pabst better. Blue Ribbon quality means the best 
tasting beer you can get. Since 1844 it always has.
PABST Since1844.The quality has always come through.
>1976. PABST BREWING COMPANY Milwaukee, Wi* Peoria Heights. III.. Newark, N. J., Lot Angeles, Cali.. Pabet, Georgia.

---------------------------------------------------

February 15, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 15
%
CMU
Pts.Reb.Assists
Hiram
Pts.Reb.Assists
Harvey2564Bolden1415
Harper1060Pasqualone1202
Costa571Niehaus482
DiCicco1253McDivitt1354
Chambers030Vaughn422
DeaBrunzzo433Williams410
-----------------------Chambers330
o
563011
542015
HOOP RACE TIGHT
I
COMING FOOD SERVICE 
SPECIAL EVENT 
STEAK AND EGG BREAKFAST 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22
KILTIE CAFE AND MOREWOOD CAFETERIA
by Mike Pochan
After four weeks of intense compe
tition, the IM basketball major league race 
shows the SUPA-Stars (6-0) out in front 
followed by ATO (5-1), Reality (5-1), 
Katoosh (5-1) and the Celtics, PIKA, 
GSIA, and Pride with three losses each.
The SUPA-Stars are big and their size 
helps them clear the boards well. Their 
scoring is usually led by last seasons 
high scorer Daryl White. Watch for their 
showdown with ATO.
Realitys only loss came to the SUPAStars and ATO was upset by Reality. 
Katooshs single loss was caused by the 
High Flying Kites. The closeness of the 
race should be cleaned out during the next 
few weeks as Katoosh meets ATO, Reality, 
and the SUPA-Stars.
In Girls IM Basketball, the season got 
underway with the Kumquats coming from 
behind in the closing minutes to defeat 
the Derelicts 17-10. Tonites big game pits 
the undefeated Kumquats against unde
feated Black Heat.
IM sport rosters due this afternoon are 
Individual Call Pool, Corec Badminton, 
Foul Shooting, and Corec Table Tennis.
Those of you playing IM Table Tennis 
singles and doubles, pick up your schedule 
in the IM office.
MAJOR LEAGUE STANDINGS
ENGINEERS,
SCIENTISTS,
OTHER TECHNICAL 
PROFESSIONALS
CAMPUS
INTERVIEWS
SOON
Visit Placement 
Office NOW!
Team WonLost
SUPA-Stars60
Katoosh51
ATO-A41
Reality52
GSIA33
Celtics33
Beta34
Pride23
PIKA24
High Flying Kites24
Nerd Knockers25
SAE-A15
ZBT-A04
MAJOR LEAGUE SCORING LEADERS
NameAverage
1) Binnie (PIKA)17.2
2) Schwartz (Katoosh)16.5
3) Samsa (Beta)15.7
4) White (SUPA-Stars)15.1
5) Coates (Pride)13.7
6) Santowski (GSIA)13.5
7) Duquette (ATO)13.2
8) Chandler (SAE)12.1
9) Massard (ATO)12.0
10) Parker (Celtics)12.0
CMU Wins Tourney
by Mike Pochan
The CMU Volleyball Club opened 
the 1977 season by winning the second 
annual CMU Volleyball Tournament with 
two straight victories over Edinboro State 
College, 15-8 and 15-7.
The tournament kicked off the inaugu
ral season of the WPIVA (Western Pennsyl
vania Intercollegiate Volleyball Associa
tion), a new league consisting of CMU, Pitt, 
Penn State New Ken, Allegheny, Edinboro, 
California STC, Slippery Rock, Indiana 
UP., and Geneva. The league existed 
unofficially last year.
In round-robin tournament play, CMU 
was undefeated, dumping last years tour
nament champion Penn State New Ken. 
In the semifinals, CMU upended Pitt 15-10, 
15-9 then went on to handle Edinboro to 
win the championship.
Playing for student government-funded 
club team were Bruce Whiting, Bob Dax, 
Dirk Kalp, Walt Tauche, Mike Pochan, 
Larry Pasternak, Pete Dixon, Pat Wallace, 
and Jay Russo.
Synergism
SAN
$269.
FT.LAUDERDALE
$169.
TRIPS INCLUDE:
- Round trip transportation via Eastern 
Air Jamaica or motorcoach 
Resort Hotels AH taxes A services 
Happy hours sun fun 
FOR INFORMATION CONTACT:
GARY WAGNER 
P.O. BOX 2294 
3990 5TH AVE. 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213 
624-7652
WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO YOU?
ENGINEERS, APPLIED PHYSICISTS, APPLIED MATHEMA
TICIANS, and COMPUTER SCIENTISTS (Scientific Applica
tions) to help us establish BDM as the foremost professional 
services company in the U.S. by 1985.
Help us meet this goal, and well help you meet your career 
goals ... no matter whether they lie in management or ad
vanced individual achievement. In the process,, you will find 
as much excitement and challenge as you can handle. And 
as much opportunity.
You will work alongside colleagues you re
spect, in an atmosphere that is the quintes
sence of professionalism. The pay is good, 
and so are the benefits, but the career sat
isfaction and growth potential are best of 
all. Lets discuss you and BDM. Write: 
College Relations Coordinator, The 
BDM Corporation, 1920 Aline Ave
nue, Vienna, VA 22180. An equal op
portunity employer m/f (we mean it).
On any given day you will find some BDM people assisting 
top level defense planners and policymakers, while others 
are getting dusty directing and executing field tests. Still 
others will be looking at tomorrows energy alternatives .. . 
designing sophisticated electronic instrumentation . . . and 
confronting national needs in areas as diverse as logistics, 
counterterrorism, offshore development, and command and 
control. Among many others.
The whole range of BDM capabilities that underlie and sup
port these activities is greater than the simple 
sum of their parts. What does this synergism 
mean to you? From a career standpoint, it 
means that you will have an unparalleled 
opportunity to see how national interests 
really fit together, how your own contri
butions impact on the system," and 
how the whole process makes you more 
than the sum of your capabilities.
Were looking for highly motivated

---------------------------------------------------

9 M
F i l m P r c P e r i .
\Y AND THURSDAY r 
/JEREM I AH-SUNDAY 3
' j-st; ioay mi no I gh r 
ILL 0-
' <-0U^ A 
/PILL n-Hf'
1/ JiCr'!jT -
'\/Kr iTt )
M/ H 
PM/
HT/ J 
PM/T 
JON / R 
, P M / - 
IGHT/S
111! l/ST 7: /LL-FR ID
4 I GT / Bv-w ; )NEf>OAY y
9 AM/C-* I cTv'-S ATURDAY
P^ TJ o
T 0 3 a 0 / f;.. j u 
4 TO 1 ) ) V i ^1J " J 
M r;-Mooo\Y 1
T MtF
.Y NOON TWl r-N-SHAY
C 6 FM/I SH-'A :i-SUrO AY i ^ M TO v I
0 3 AM/JUr ^HlRc.r:^V 6 rn 9 >
f f) .*j pM/H->''A L I PP'l^ Yr -T: 1  Sf 1 A Y 
i 0 J I GHT / MrR I. I I  Vi). ID AY MlDilGHI m 
in 9 PfVjA OLCOTT-TUS i\Y ' I1'
fO 10 AM/Tfip *1 I :<c SuND-a Y \i* Ti 
TO 3 AM /  AD I 0 FREE p I f TSF IN GH 
MIDNIGHT/ HICK > ;GAl -VJEOOV'V/
A * / ?. O' ' 0 G~ ^-F-M DAY JOUN TO 3 PMi 
MOil 4/ 3RUC " -3KAC HkEx J-ViEDN^S DAY 
,-MO JO\v ]Q vi TO 3:30 PM,TU~SDj 
i) THURSDAY 7 AM T0 13 AM/CLIFT 
MI D 0 I G F T / JE RE MI AHS 0 '10AY 3 r>!
1 AM , SATURDAY 3 rJ 9 AM/Lc
SDAY VD THUDS')-\Y 3 U1 TO 7 
IT T i) 3 AM/ M I < r Hi!RR 1N-TUtSD 'i 
Ml) II,HT TO 5 A V T H  PACC<
J
Fe
Y  
fO
) i 
rn
0 1000/^1 TTSl,URGH AFTER
W I T H i-L \SH iptH ?fKe-SATU 
1) THURSDAY 3 TO *
3 o *-** / R 01F ^ R - F * I ^AY 3
ro " i ) i v\r / \ j -suno.
I' A'ur'IOAY 6 A*l T'.]
i S :> VO J \ l A-F 3 I ) A Yi
]> - w
OR \ CH M \ t,H n 3: 3 3 RM , T'l..., 
r \ *j To 10 a-7 CLIFF G 3 <-!-> 
fJ : -  I * H-si.j 4 3 \Y 3 T'J iS PM/JU-i
^ \A TO 9 AM/! cO-S\TU-(!) AY MIDNIGHT .
TO
RADIS' 
TURK
u-< DAY ^ PM TH 9 dkNuiEtbGaskWASia 
ro ^ ,>M/ OR S JOW-WLDMeSDAY A U D FRIDAY MI 
AY ^ Pv TO 6 PM/WPXT slCw S-MO:jl)AY THRU F
;; u jo AY MIDNIGHT TO i AM/BERF NGER-FR I DAY
1 T ' j 9 AM / >31 LI.  )*SATURDAY 9 AM TO NOON/
',AY 9 W TO OCOm/^DUCATIOOAL PROGR AMMI f 
Tf) ^ PM/ILL FU'^OAS-TIJFGDAY AND THURSO 
I ',*- T/ .J \C )OI -T0r SDAY 9 PM TO Ml DO I GOT / Jf-RtM I AH-SU^'
/ .. f Ton |;j v\Y 3 AM TO 10 AM SATURDAY 3 AM TG 9 AM,
i\\ J uiij v-i)\y 3 *0* TiJ 7 AM,SUNDAY 3 AM TO 9 AM/Tt R 
\VMKt h_-\'90 '-TU^SUAY 6 P.3 TO 9 PM, SUNDAY NOOf
,-<r ro - \ vChf de::PsoMtgeB w yo CM . yoNRe, ye
i ./o i r T '*> hUkC-jH A F \ '* DARK WITH KrVIN AND G^rGGS*' 
r | k.h vu) /r< FS ATUR D AY C PM. T(j 9 PM/RANDY-MO 
j,H >OAY 3 ijM TO 6 PK/DR SNUW-WlONPSOAY AND FRIC 
/ -j L F 1  F V I ; \ Y *> ? v TO 6 PM/v\ll?.CT N F W S - M (N D A Y T1 
*; !0 * IGHT/AJ-SUOnAY ?>I DNIGHT TO 3 AM/ 3ERENGERP
FDzjhdLV i iK 1G 9 ik NPbll 7s6i1-PSia 9 ik 1c
P VO ON * \-F '0 O'AY 9 \M TO MOON/frOUC AT I ONAL PROG 
-5\Y 10 V: TO ^ P'V'ILL FuRMAS-TUESDAY AND T
1 r / J A^ M i I-Ti l 3SDAY 0 PM TO M I ON I GHT / J ERFM I 
r-*0 v)AY 3 AM rt) 10 AM, SATURDAY 3 AM TO 
1H IRSOAV 5 Z\t* TO 7 A.M,SJ*4DAY 3 AM TU 9 
/ 1 t K i_ H - q RO iI IJ:. 3 D AY 6 PM T0 
r ll
TOO) \Y [0 \M TOY \ 4!
T.) > H GH r / J AC 7U I - TJ
V* ro 1 R */.; 'N rv:;\0\Y 
r-tu-sovy \ in r HU 1 SO AY 
i n '5 fGHT r. 1 \ A V * I K r H ; 
FS ) Y v 10 ! I iOT TO ^ AM/TI
- 1 A * ro 100 V - l T r S3-J <' 
fS.*.U^*;H ;iro FLASH a on 7
aoo Thurso ay 3 po
b r uua y15 , 97aV o l m
 r 1 mi)0I'-;ht/\j-si
10 AM,r< IDAY A 
TO ^ 1 VMO.\OA-FRI Oi
1 SO AY
6 ^ 1 T1) 
I H A Y ) iJ
7 AM TO 
) A Y 3
lc SO AY AND THO^S!)\Y 10 \M T1 
AY 9 j ; r o M I i' JI GF r / J Af.Oo T - 
\ Y 6 PM TO 7 i*v/v Jr-'<00 AY 
i>y:: Y R-TU2S0AY A JO TMLUSOAY 
'AY f1 ION I GMT TO 4 A V 11 * HER Rj 
TT-TU-SOAY v I ) I I j H T TO i A M / T H|
I Ml DA Y 9 Af' TO 10 < I ' J / I T T S ) ^GH
MITTSOURGH WIIH T L \ SM A, J 0 7 - K1
in THUJSOAY 3 M 
9 P *' / V u L F - < - F R I O A YI
T ) ^ I >I AM T / \ J-S vlj 
n AM,PR 10 AY A A
r c FsUG, 1 J A-F M D Al
y
TO
L-UEP^"S 
JODAY 6 P 
wL-FwIDAY 1 
. E S D A Y 7 AM 10 
SATURDAY J P 
" ,WrO Jr SO A Y AND 1UO.<SO\Y L) \M T Ml
.-SUAAY  TO M I ^ JI Gli r / J \CMU [ - T
TIJRSJAY h PM TO ^ v t/y4T-'1ilr-iOAY 
i LI PPM-Yc R-TUrSDA Y A 00 TOO'SOAY 
i-Mf) 1DAY MTiJIIGHF TO 3 X'VMIKF HE 
CLCOTT-TUESfMY MID JIGHT TO i Ml/ Tj 
IKf-SOODAY ) A< TO 9 )U V I T T S U Of 
J FREE PITTC3U>GH WITM FL^SH A09 7
S EGAL*-VEDNESrAY AND ThURSoaY 3 P 
.KY-SUTDAY 6 P^ TC 9 PVMdLF^K-^ < I 
/i /ELL -FR I DAY 1 P* r] M TO I [ iHT / A .1, 
-WOMFSDAY J AM 10 10 AM, F ^ Ip AY r>
S Tv-SATliRDAY 3 PM Tij ^ P t/M ) I 4A F 
) 3 y^ ,Wt:00F SP AY A ID mU-VWAY 10
HMA^L-SUNOAY i Fpo T * J MH)-j HiF T / J
ME-THURSDAY 6 PM TO 9 M/KE NT-MO*
RMAAN LI Pp Mr YERTUESDAY AID TOURf 
.<L I1so0O0AY MlO'iir.MT TO 3 A V * I * 
uS-MONCAY THRU FRIDAY ON THE HOU 
''c R-F R I D AY NCON TO 3 PM/
^/BRUCC BRACHMAN'*nAY 10 AM 
^ A
T i
 DAY 
'HT TC^
T/SPA^
MtpsChvD
URSDAY 10 
f/WRCTSPORTS-Wt^
DUCAT I ONAL P-ROGR;
FDNESDAY 9 PM TO MIDNIGH"
0 3:30 PM, TUESDAY NOONT.) 3 r>M,'^=1 
/CLIFF GREEN-FRIOAY 6 PM TO 9 PM/RADIC 
M/JON AND GEGRCyZ-SMURDCKY NOON TO 3 PM' 
DNIGHT TO 3 AM/HILL D-SAriJRDAY 9 AM TO f
Y 10 AM TO NOON/JEREMIAH-SLNDAY 3 PM TO
O-WEDNE SDAY 6 PM TO 9 PM/JCN AND GEORGE-S 
AY MIDNIGHT TO 3 AM/CL IFF GREEN-FRIDAY 6 r 
TO MIDNIGHT/SRUC6 ORACHMAN-WEDNESDAY 9 PM 
TO 6 PM/RONI-THURSDAY 9 PM TO MIDNIGHT / FR T 
TO 6 AM, THURSDAY 10 AM TO NOON/THE PAC'ER-*
ON THE HOUR/WRCTSPORTS-WEEKNIGHTS AND SATURD 
TO 3 PM Ai VV\ -ONE S-!') A Y 7 AM TO to \M,F'U)AY '
F 3RACHMAN-WEDNESDAY 9 PM TO MIDNIGHT/FLASH A
'ONDAY 10 AM TO 3:30 PM, TUESDAY NOON JO 3 PV,W
AM TO 10 AM/CLIFF GREEN-FRI DAY 6 PM TO 9 PM/
3 PM TG 6 PM/JON AND GEORGE-SATURDAY NOON TO 
-SATURDAY MIDNIGHT TO 3 AM/JUPE-THURSDAY h *-> ; T
MAC< -T UE SD A Y 10 AM TO NOON/G M ST v-SA TL^D A Y 3 >
0 3 PM/OBL IO-WEDNESDAY 6 PM TO 9 PM/DR S>lG*-*Er
OlSt-TmRSDbY MIDNIGHT TO 3 AM / > J \ Nj A - F RI DAY 9 \r
JRDAY 9 PM TO M IDN I GHT/A J-SONDAY MIDNIGHT TO 3 .*
Y 3:30 PM TO 6 PM/RONI-THURSDAY 9 PM TO MIDNIGH 
MIDNIGHT TO 6 AM, THURSDAY 10 AM TO NOON/WniFH?
U FRIDAY ON THE HOUR/WRCTSPORTS-WEEKNIGHTS AND S 
DAY NOON TO 3 P M / < \ T  V r; < o \ Y 3 AO TU l'j A!^,SATU:
OON/BRUCE BRACHMAN-WEDNESDAY 9 PM TO MIDNIGHT/J A 
MMItJG-MONDAY 10 AM TO 3:30 PM,TUESDAY NOON TG 3 >
JRSDAY 7 AM TO 10 AM/CLIFF GREEN-FRI DAY 6 PM TO c 
[-SUNDAY 3 PM TO 6J2*/J0N_J\ND GE ORG E-S ATURDAY NOO 
AM/LEO^/TFRRI *A 
'NCON TO 3
p A ^ UMiiii iifif W1fG-SATl 
'-CND.X 
R IDAY 
IY THRU FRIDAY 
R-FRIUAY NOON 
TO NCON/BRUCE
IGi
GH 
R 0 N>HI
 N/
ON THE H0i|^RcASPB|HU^|iGHTS 
TO 3 P M / 1^  TO 3 
CR A CHMAN  IQ 9 DNIG'
*mmiNG-MONDAY 10 AM TO 3:30 PM,TUESDAY NOON 
** AM TO 10 AM/CLIFF GREEN-FR I DAY 6 P^
^ PM /Supported by Student Government
5FxC 1G 2 ikN 613U3 O3lb
'^N /RICK Sr GA 
- oM/
