CARNEGIE INSTITUTE PF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PTUESDAY, APRIL 5, 1927
SENIOR BALL 
TO BE STAGED 
THURS. APRIL7
RejuvenatedCollegiatelmps 
To Furnish^ Syncopation 
Vybere Event is Scheduled
DANCE FEE TOBE $1.50 
AND $4.00 AS STATED
Webster Hall Ballroom Is the 
Place ChoBeo for Dance 
Ticket Sale Now On.
Preparatici for tbent' of the 1927 cli completed. and tbe outgoing members re eagerly, looking forward to next Thursday evening, -whet tbe Senior Ball will be 'enacted; 
The men of the cle&a of 27 have been working hard to "bring about a successful'' and enjoyable occasion which'may be a suitable 'finale to' their life as a Class of Carnegie. They bay gone about tbe an-angeCARN EGEISSTU PFATHP 
OL YO,BDOYN5O 19D52 7e5j2 LD Oe,uYB5v
be held . ...
12:00 in'the Little ThVi School. Bey. . KlnleyMcMl Presbyterian! stude speak, ' ,
Dr. Baker, as is ci a' selection, from 
Tbe music depanm a soloist for the special on tbe program. .This will be (he last time student's will be able to llstei 
f?e*verB. are secured ' by? ~ -v s, During
Vo^e For-One of These Tomorrow
Senior styleth dai
>ses, they are to be the .r* clplents of hearty -congratulations, for the-anticipated success of the
Asj-announced iln thalast issue of the Tartan, the fee will be $1.50 for all those members who have been .'- faithful 1u the payment of their., da^s dues.^r.whoSre completely'paid'up. For tho'so not in good flnanclarstandlng'in relation to.their claasV the assessment shall be $4.00. . Invitations have also been.sent to all local alumni,.and' Jt'ls hoped that .a pleasing nui , of 'former students, will turn . The-Collegiate Imps; an ele piece, orchestra or wide repute 
 well-known .especially to Carnegie students, - will te-the^muelcal traction'. andv of ; course, will. ] vide music of real quality. 'They have been  engaged at various points: in Western Pfenneylvanii and conslrtCr-Carnegle  Tech ei their home grounds. ,. : Tbe service will  be a la, carte with: light refreshments being served.': by the, management t( those who. desire I.L This wli: -come-as cabaret style, with tablei and dancing.
................i.js-to.he
ANNUAL STUDENTI 
EXHIBITION TO BE 
HELD 0NAPRIL 22
Day and Night Students 
Will Work in Various 
Shops, Labs, Studios"
(CAMPUS WEEK >AfERPEOPLE WILL MEET.AT - JARTAM OFFICE ON WED.
There will tre'ao Important meeting of everyone concerned : with the Issuing of' the annual Campus Week paper,, at; the' Tartan' .offlcc, Wednesday at 12:30, noon. As* slgnments wlii be given out by tho I editors, and the advertising'and'
concerning the work'In'tho:
ASSEMBLY FOR 
TODAY WILL BE 
ENTERTAINING
CLOWN BAND WILL 
LEAD FRESHMEN !N 
PLEBE PROMENADE
Last Student Couqcil I^rqgreiD of the Year Features 
Many New Songs, Stunts
VAGABONDS TO PLY
I Committee Will Stage Short 
. Skit at. Conclusion of 
Parade in Gym
 held .rlday
On this evening, all depart] f the school will be open for pubi Inspection with studonts of both he day and the night classes ot :ork n-tbe'-vnrioua sbops, lataraorlcB,. studios, and I class, roopis.Special features planned for'this
(more suitable .plac -would be liard, * OUU VjUtlt /HW;
Topics of Lectures
s.place would.be Hard, /to. acquire.' (Continued QD Page Two)'
PETE RYGG TO DIRECT 
C.W. VAUDEVILLE SHOW'
Varsity Football Men Will 
Present Kovel "Heavy 
Drama.
Plani udevllle showth Cam: being foriIon. oftoted ."under tbe able Pete Rygg. chairman of .the committee, in charge. The vaudeville show will be given on Thursday  morning of Campus. Week. The first act of :the 'show will consist of several : acrobatic acts to be. put, on by the same , group that entertained : the crowds between halves at the /Pitt-TecU football games. There will bo seyerai musical and dance numbers to entertain. Dur* bln Horner wlll slng and Thetft .Tau, science school honoraryt lis anual act.
O9I9nville show will
t playa
> Collefof 1k Ini; pqtably.the College or rjne Arts; concerts by rthe Kiltie Band; motion pictures of student activities; demonstrate of practical and, scientific wrfrk in the College of Engineering and In gustries, and tbe Margaret .Morrl Carnegie College; In6pectloi 9f . the tunnel of. the. mine lindei the Science Building; and demon Etrations of student wprk In cob design and' household econ college.; In .the wotni
Dr. Haas, professor-or Phyi 
the University of Vienna, d d the first of a scries of 1 lures on physics, entitled Tbe
ht in tbe Carnegie Union. He 1,conclude hie lectures with his discussion of "Objective and Hui Physics."
r. Haas, a native of . Vienna, lied at the Universities of ina and Gottingan. In 1906, he received hie doctorate at the University of Vienna and-six.years e became prlvatdozeht In at Vienna;. In 1913 extraprofessor at the Unlvei-: Leipslz; In 1922 professor nn. He was the first physicist to apply the quantum' theory to the study of the atom. He died in 1910. thus before "Bohr.
Music Department Will 
Present Recital April 10
. The studentsDepartment of' MubIc will present 
9 recital at Ihe Little Theater on -Sundayevening. April .10,. at8:15 .P.-/M. Jhe evening's proi eludes the work -6f diverse'great Handel, Dvorak,and Liszt of Marcel!The' fot s "Sbnita In G major," 
major, the .first 1Bho . Symphonic SDoh's Rose ^111 also.be previolaviolin
the relalloiwhlcl
mark .an innovation in the history ot Campus -Week, vaudeville shows, In that tbe sbonv-wlll be presented ''in..a unified' whole In review., Heretofore all acts haye not.been planned/with unlflcatlonoch act being .individual, relating not it all tD_the. others.: It' Is Mr; -Ryggs desire-tio; create a: smooth running Bhow.. that'.wjir. be.. distlncUve  for 1(3 unlflcwton. .An orchestra, on the. stage*wlll play for; all musical And .banco numbers'. vVThe. for Stf/yeart actarrltteri.
by i
so-treated the problem.of the muclei of atoms and the Isotope
tlie economics ofcoal, s will be given 'm Wednesday arid. Thursday nights of this week -by F. G.
of Commerce at Washington, D.-C. His, first discussion, It Is aniced., will*coyer Changes-Inond lecture will be on ..Tlie.Coat.f coai. :'
In these discussions, tbe Wash* ington official will outline and ' Continued on Page Three)
Pal Kleyle, John Brletlc. .Marcello........................ -Two Sonatas for cello piano(a) Sonata In G Major . 
Andante  Allegro - Ad&
Stewart Blackmore, Mildred
Lalo .Symphonic Espagnol
Caroline Kunst Spohr..; .Rose Softly Bloomln( Droark, 5n My Dear Old Mothei . ' Eleanor LambContluued on Page Three.) -
TO CONSTRUCT COURT 
AND FOUNTAIN FOR C.W.
Gampus Week . Paper 
To Burlesque Events
.The annual Campi:week.papei will again, be a'- burlesqu^Weet, | end, will .appear early; ,In th morning. of each day'Jof festlviQedi'. Jt was decided $y teresentntlvea'f Alpha Chi Alpha and Pi ^Dlt BpBiln last-Sunday. who win'jrianage l
le 'nsiue, Pa-Ma Day/ glv inual 'welcoming day to students there and mothers, has glven rise . the deslro on the port of tho Student' Council {o' (Ind a' more < late .cognoriien. Tbe obji 
oho name eoems! quite wldetl and arises adnually.
McLaughlin, Associai
MUI Cohen,Xrtulatloii Manager. -' - . ' .
^ny Campus wit who w'uld .like try bis hand at publication should.
 and to this end, a request Is made 
to the student.body to.sond in to the Council .suggestions for anew name. . The full co-operation of all thoNQ lnleresied;. lyilL be . apprectIn the archlieclui 
anyaflenioonthli tor.'already Was: thf paper onI&d,
Bee ArtSltt ! .diftiUR;iW<|in, wek.. .Th ^dlElaborate Lighting Effects and 
Scenery Planned.
Under the direction and superIstcn ot-George McKinney, chair* nan ot the decoration committee ctual work will begin on the contr'uctlon of. th$ manydecorativo 
satures/whlch have been designed
Theplans (or e high tc facing the School, 
each end'of the Art Sell ill. also be dcdratd and furnlsh' ilored lights. The : fountain
be placed on the walh crrace In front of the The large lamps on
mpted
:ou8lructlon-wlll be bne of Ilio most nnlts ever t of thls klnd work wlll ha ve. to-be put forth-by he commltteejn, order to brlng ;boiit th deBlrd resulta. An oriate court Is to ba bullton th cut ,tth " poln't where the two paths Interesct, th Idea le to be li tlie rm of an exedra'. . Color for tbe decoratlons le to be'provided by Pgge Three.)
cotnplt' iircuion '~t/iTbe' d-womens dornjltorla wlllbegin Im 
dred.per
ledlately after tho t holI: n' efTrt to obtain :ent,cIrculatlon. ...Plfieet*
arly on each morning: Committees iho subscribe'early will get their oples on 'th Cmpns at a-booth specially designated for their benfit Alumni may buy . the paper ach ilay on . tlie Campus'.from . n
PROF. GRIERSON GIVES 
HIS VIEWS OF MILTON
Speaking before a large a ice. Dr. Grierson of .the Unl sity-of Edinburgh; brought-out
that tite .poet .Mllton 'lacked two . essential Chrtatlan-rilri of hural.lltyand charity;- and Id -not be . .thus considered a great Christian, poet Dr. Grierson opened his lecture by stating that he -had 'chosen as e giree poets'that were to be the bject of his course: Milton,Wordsworth - and Blake becauso ork of.each of them had been profoundly Influenced , by the revolutlonary social disturbances through -wblch.they lived. Alllton. like Jobn Ruskln, had. benefited id sufTered by tbe elaborate and illglous education which -they .owed tp the care of their parenta. This, education tended., to foster im ?nd to make Us subject
Country Fair Plans 
For Many Features
A greased. ,p|g, square dances, 
clo\yn, band, Bide 'shows, and games will be ino, ot. thevfeatures of 
.Ui(LhignuDtrtKEalr^h|(ih-l-heli annually as a . Wg vent-of Campu Week., .the  C mutee, has ai
dormitories. In addition the girls, dorms and the fratei ..will present stunts on a' platform, which ..will, be built in.thi enter of the Pair,
Besides these.stunts, there wll o many other performances, dem mstrfttlons, stock - exhibits, an acrobatic exhibitions. An old time ddler will be Imported fi llds-of West Virginia, and thoso ho wlll attend will dance tho ol< ishloned square dance and. Paul >neB. Efforts are/being made to rccuro a portable merry-go-round 
............... ' riders
CAST 2ND CAMPUS 
QUEEN VOTE WED.
Fifteen Girls Chosen in First 
Election Are Candidates 
For"2ridjllot
i first ballot has bean, cast.! 
Firteen of Carnegie's ' fairest havt 
been seiocted to run for CnmpuK 
Queen. Seven girls from, th Col 
pt Pine Arts and eight from 
Margoret Mon-Ison. were nominal>y. ' popular vote in the ilret 
naUon held la Wednesdi 
on. Thle is th .first of a i 
ofelections .the second of 
L wlil be held tomorrow. The 
vote will, be taken op Wed.* nesday, April 26,
The second eloction jvlil .be held 
toroorrow from, 12:00 to 1:30 uud
band, composed Plebo musicians will lend the Plobe Prom, annuul ' Freshman frolic htch 'Wlil bo held on , Tuesiluy; April 26, according io the onnouncomont of Goorgo Vau Vochchairman of this yeur'a rom[e. On. the morning of tho de, which Is to etnrt .. the .Plebos wlll bo oxcused L:lO to go .to their locker dross themselvo8 in their costui 11:30 they will parade In front of the ossomblcd uppercIasBmen tbolr'respective 'schools. Tho Engineering freshmen will parade In eltlior Room 209 or Room . 21S Scienco, tho MaragatetMorrison girls In Rocroatlon Hall, \the ArU freshmen In the Llttlo Theater, and the.lndUBlriee plobes in 104 Indueics-building. >* 'After lbb'Judglpg all.lho Fresh,, en will gather In front of Cotitral building for a Grand March.Ill bo photographed by the city newspaper i 
moving.plcturos of ihe parade will be taken by nows reel photogri phers.. Led by. the clown band,
Moflic, P. and D., and Drama 
Departments Contribute to 
Peppy Program.
General Assembly In Cameglo - Music this. morning. Ac* recent decision, tlie io prompt, this.Isprogram wlll 1tho last, goo!,. ______ w
hold under the uuaplcca of th . Student Council, as . the % May assombly will, be la chargo of tho Campus Week Commlttee, which 1n making elaboroto plans for tbe program. ;
Interesting pi^gram has been arranged for todayv. Tho assembly opons with the ensemble singing ot a . group" of Carnegie songs, accompanied by Roy R. Dlote. Mins Peg Werta, ono of the leading la* . dies of last yeara Campus Week ond Frank Sullivan, who : tho gooso in thls;yeBr'^..
The Judging or the Plobes wlll take plrtce In . the various school nssombly rooms, tho plobes to be 
exempt Trom regulations io bo de* elded by the applnuso each re*..........The eight or ton' In, eachschool who recelyed the most upplause . win . ho / given , exemption
(Continued i
16,000 YouthsFrom All Parts of the Globe
/Gather at Pittsburgh in Pursuit of Knowledge
of Pittsburgh. Carnegie Institute ofTechnology. Duqu.ne University aad-Pennsylvania College for Women come from 44. sUtR, the District'of Columbia, and r 28 for-,eign countlres. according to a. re:
port Issued today by AlRn Bright/ registrar of Carnegie.-.Mr. Bights report covers Uie geograpltfcal rep-. - cesentatlon of the day-students attending the-four institutions . a* 
poinU out aeveral  factors. -that  probahly influence. etudei 
all ov " -burgh I lege education.  v . Plttsbhrgh. Mr. Bright points, out. ha's long been recognized as - .onethe beat places In.whlch.to: wort:' The rapid development of -its schools ands. colleges during^ th. > pMl few years' and' the attraction. Y v.of^lerge nvimbfs oi iSt.udeuta .to  its'- educational . ..Inslltutlona v are Tevidenofea tliat 1U& peoplej.of:,Plttfr -burgh are trying bard to succeed, ln-; making :Pltta>urh not only :.a; > - : place to work-h.u't a place io. which I-.^./tO'.llTerand learn.-. i  - i, ^ educational bene*. v iU PThich: piar_lbo:derived--------
great industrial district ,/yith general stimulus and Its practical resources for strengthening of Instruction should be-obvious, thse benefits are.- nevertheless.,- not generally appreciated to the fullbst extent. The college student of .today demands with an eminent fftouttv. - Adequate - classroom - facilities. thoroughly modem laboratory equipment, and plonsant-.UvIng ac prefer
cfCA and -district of Pittsburgh, the Industrial production, of which annually-exceeds la Its tonnage that of anv. other city In tlie: world. It must-; be; primarily, the diversity and-perfection of; technological lea-. Involved. In . the' -wldc
SGsrChi' lahoratories.'-  the vopportii-' nltleB-, forobservation' In ; "our coorta/the unusual attractionsof from' Internatlohal jiBCop0.:.'.tn.>. rt.and
. help
muBlc, the almost unlimlte< ry facilities, tho banking-ai cantile .establishments, -tbe portatlon andcommunloatti poratlons. All contribute I produce, a fruitful field of useful training.
 Of the 15,920 regular day atu-s dents enrolled.In Pittsburgh's four
47 students/ Westx Virginia la third with .276; and Now York ranks fourth 'with 134: ' \Idaho, South . Carolina. Nevada, and New-Mexico are the state* not represented - by college, students enrolled here1 this year  -New, jersey^nd -Indiana have' }a Btudents-e^ch. in - Pittsburgh Institutions. Michigan' bas 38- Massa*' chusetts. 32.. Connecticut 30.' Maryland 29,-Illinois 25.: <VIrglula 24. District of, Columbia 23. Colorado .14,1- and  Tennessee . 112. Other states with 10 -or -more representatives each are..Alabama, California. Iowa,. Kentucky; Nebraska. Texas, md : Wisconsin^ All-of the remain*
i as in therethe government of colonli is benefit to be derived froi and solitary neglect. Even in Miltons early poems with all . their wonderful artistic beauty there is a - touch-., of - haugbty. sfelf-oenlered feeling.
In his -Lycldesand the Latin poem on tbe. death of his friend VDlodalJ. Milton .has more to say ot himself than of his.friends. -His eulogy of chastity tn "Cornus does not, like Dantes In the "Vita Nova glorify a purity that is
whichof love. Milton' live, a more self-regarding virtue.
The crisis of Miltons-life came with the outbreak of the-rebellion against the civil and religious poll-, oy of Charles I. He was 'already preparing to . writea great natlonbut tbe Rebellionhim. as deeply as the French R. lutlon .later, moved ; Wordswortli 
He foresaw, a ,new - epoch tn th religious and soclal'hjstory.of tin English people, and he was to b<
Hie iwork* a
pig wlll gambol about the grou iritU his lucky captor 8ucccdl bringing home the bacon. . 1 clown ' band will send foTth .lhe 
id the barker, about the^blg;
fhusic In
gest, heat,
the face of the earth.Novelties, favors, and si a great varlely will, be gl' free to the falr-goers by business houses -and firms In Pittsburgh. There will be plenty for every on male or fcmnlc, and those who wl come are advtaed to bring' hand bags . and automobiles to carry away their glfis.
the commlttcc com]Lyle R. Sheppard, chaii (Continued on Page
AtPHARHO CJJi OFFERS CUP 
FOR , W. DECORATIONS
adopted laiFollowingthe poilcy ar. Alpha llho.Chl, 
rchltectural honorary fraternity, 111- again ofTer a trophy for the heat decorated fraternity bousedur g Campus Week. This cup was jn last year by Sigma Phi EpslIt has always been customary for the various fraternities to add thing specialvin their .decora-tlorii.but
xultatlon which was never to he I the officers heard again In. Miltons -worksFor dlslllusiqn soon followed.-The first. shock. that.Mlltonasensitive
and;cultured<nature..recelvedw38 the:4isappolntment of hlsiflrst riiar^ shock from which he ncver recovered. Thls^was^.followed by
the keen compeUOon dlspli . _rought forth an unusual vaif design. The decorations 
I most cases, far more'elabad extensive than formerly, der to keep up the conipetl. Irlt and thus secoro the best results In. the decoration design; the Alpha Rho Chi fraternltv has 
decided, to offer a tropby cup each ampus Week, the cup.going*per* anently to ,HSaNwinner. .Judges ill be selected : laterfrom mein* bers of the ATts chSol-faculty. *
. lb. COSTUME ECONOMICS CLUB CHOOSER OFFICERS
Betty Calvin as president. Dorothy - Lutz . asvice president and <f ; Florence aenny/as secretary, were 
ntly . by
the. dleappolntmeihopes he had^ founded 
ntGGPd ^ P >  the . ;. Parllamen (Contlnaed.oo Pag Two)
Economics Club, membership In this tubers junior or SeniorEligibility: f(lub Is -limited of the Sophoi 
classes In the Costume Economics Department who have paid tbe as-id -fees.
. -Tliee. foes go mostlv toward the maintenance' of a.. Scholarship awarded; annually to one' of-Us
slectlon.1 A grea 
the studo'ntB fallcd to cast a ballot 
last wook 'especlnliy '.In the men^ 
schools but Blnco a definite selec
tion has been mndo the voting to
morrow should be heavier.
Plana for tbe Coronation of the Iall2lng' gradually
This should 
I last mini
of tho setting 
trlous ^Tfie <jui
he Coronation. Is proving difficult one whether to hold It hi* tho Opeii Air Theater as usual, or change the locatloh.ln favorof no more.desirable 'place on
lowing:
Arts School: J. terney, W. H. Schelk, P. K. Schell;. H. Hoi ster, and /R. A. Schmidt. Indus* tries School: G. turner, J.'. E.Mueller, S. Mlolzlnr, J. Ho Johnson, and J. W. Slvull. Science jchool: R. W.-Hurd, Don Dalli. L. Fnhneslock, D. H.. Callen, and WP. Murdoch. Margaret Morrison College: Francos Keisor, Jean
thestill unde
N.Y. Evening Post Holding 
Student Essay Contest
the student,believes responsible for the so-called 'wave of mental' .depression mr colleges' and schools was ealed today when, tho New Y< Svenlng ' jln7 began printing ieries of prlze<wlnnlngarticles rom college men and worn* mswer to the qu68t]on. .Hai
undergraduate a postC. W. SHOW AND CAST 
SELECTED THIS WfEK
' though as-yet the Campus Weoii Show committee does not wish to dlyulge the nanie, .it has been anhouucod'tliat' tho production has been definitely , signed up and the Chosen play will be given. Ttje I Student Couiicll has passed on the budget,' and Ch'alrmari Walt Rogers' will complete tho casting of the show this weelc.
tho business staff has be tlcularly actlvc In carrying pre-Easter plans. An ex.^..w publicity iampalgn. liichidlng the utilization of large bill: boardi, window cards and posters, the Pittsburgh and New Yoi *
ar netfrosis?In all the aril iiblicatlons.- say "It-Is apparttho
r offehas led. the student to put tot? words .what he has had In mind for 
.The. views evpressed' here,-and. In succeeding artleli e bred of mature-thoughtSome of the causes to whidi. udents attribute the melaucholyate ot their fellow under* os are summarized - as ; laxity hastened by tlie World 'lack of understanding beareuta and children. American, undergraduatehas oo much of lire, bas lived [utckly, has. grown oldioo: s youth  bas attemptedI.theurfacidig .
from.life than hls ancestors." more than one Instance the irlng of religious: convictions Is gltfen. as the reason; ''StudentR believe-in God," says one letter. "Science has destroyed for thecomfortable. world  of . a iven and  .Hell,- Is-another ex plantation'. 'The. student Is not nifferlng from a post-war neurosis' 
nit from a worn-out creed of allegiance: I was commanded to bosve, writes a .thlrdundorgradu*
For each -article - published.- The -Evening Poet makes' an '-award of >10 and Yor.Jhe.best. ftlcle. a'prlze >f;|100 -will be given.- .- The winner ot.the; fiOO howevervwlll not be an* >)incd until: all iftlclB under oon-.
andirllsing1 :ll iaunclbeen * operatloithe.stair espccta
cllitiiWith the , cal.merchi have the play 
-thou In the'past.'
been definitely signed also. Mr John , Harding of tho Drama Department; has contracted to handle the technical end of tho work arid Mr.. Theodore Vlehntan, also of the Department, will serve' as the dm* matlc. director. Tho work of these ~nen le familiar to all Carnegie stulents acquainted with Uie drama m-the .campus, and the committee eels very fortunate for having socured their services. 
held 1n this considered better smaller LIttlejTli
COUNCIL GRANTS PETITION OF BAND TO GIVE CONCERT
At the Student'Counclt meeting ist Thursday; March 31, several important matters came up. Permission was.given the KiUlc Band
Week Vaudovllle Show for this year, and well-known to tbe patrons of ?past;8seniblie3, 'l glr* Ing a humorous discussion on Canipus Week Dirt. Petes aot wlU^be true to hie torm, (ind highly Interesting. Two; colobrltles of ths Art School, Cam Young.of tho Drama Department, nud .Horry Cobon, the . piano wizard of tbe Music Dopartmont. aro offering 'MusicalMoments," a collection of ."hot nuni* 
: As 'the feature of.jibo assembly ' 
the managora ' havo secured "The Student Vagabonde." a seyon-pleco orchcstrn under, tho . dlroctlon of Oaenr Norboclt, glviug a. short program of popular numhra .The'sa v hnve boon playing; in: 
n tho city for-sbme time, i hit wherever Ufoy apiPtiearnnce will bo  .
Il. ehow thot the aaornbly is to tv ohe of entertainment only, and,' ihould prove lnterostlng to every; onc. All studoiits shoutd try to attend tndoy's -.nssombly asVthore 
.'Vl)I probably .bo several^lmporlant -, nnnouncoments concrnlng school affairs 1n generai, and parUcularly, propuraatlons for CampuB Weok.
PREPARATIONS BEGUN 
FOR C. W. SWEEPSTAKES
Meeting of Fraternity Dele
gates Called For Today.
: Spring Is In tbe-alr, young men's thoughts aro-not turning to lovb, but Campus Wook Is . on . the horizon, 'and' the various '.committees are sterling .the. . .work-^.that.will flrlly culminate in: the; greatest effort; - that1' Carnegie .'has ' yet dlKplaed for the jollification and weliming of the ^returning hlumiil. 1th CnipB -  Weok -coma' tho great Groek Raclh'g Classic,- better -
tf of explanatloi to. thiB .ninch talked of event. -,it ked by a wave 'of second childhood 1 sweeping over the fraternities, in. which each; fraternity, builds 'a pu'shmobllc; and", assemstrong barcks;nnd weak minds';of their group to.push this act-called automobile, over a course competition gainst, the.seyerat. lr, Greek brotherhoods; The; trac will bo tho same as last ir, namely, starting In front of rgaret Morrlsoii and piishlng uii . tho top of the gym hill, .where pushers wilt 'change ttnd. the' eccnd lap begun. This, lap will bo . town' through Schonly Pnrtt totho. base of Industries Hill, whora the pushers again change. Tho third man power will take It up to the top of Industries. Hill, and th fourth man will carry on fcopi that -- the finish in front of Mor* orrlson. At this point it is well to say that as these conests are ,usually extremely close: di. bookiqakers are banned from ., he. course, as any large sum of 
money placcd on an. entrant'iplght
Alpha tau. the Industries Scholar-' ship Honoraryforthe -wlnnerVof . yeiiti:wos won by Pl -Kappa Alpha In .record time. The second 
ir.tlie; one-presented-for-the best , looking, pushmoblle ,w^nt to.-.;
i Ma':theAlvin. Tjj
>w:under. way.:.' The' revised budget of the Mens Senior Jail, was .read^-and aiiproved' Mr: Tierney repo'rted. that the-work of olleciing. signatures In connection 
debtlls-progrfsi
ing: very, nicely o' Avsug^estlon.hv '*Vurtz-forv;a<memorial fountain: he campyB,.-; was ; d)scussed. The rmalnder;or>.ths-meeM^was taken up. wjth, the jc>lslon of the
)recedin.iAlpha Tau Omega.'. The |Kappa, Sigma won . tbe racing cup,, andDelta Tau Delta wou thedesign trophv.
.In-.formeiti-years the crowds asembled.vtp watch the race proved - .unmanageable by the .Alumni>PogT lice. Force.,so this .year :the RO:  T.C.;. :lia!> offered assistance to - combat this problem.
.As sonie questlons have, come up*' In previous yealrs as to the 'ebange'ithis line At the changing i 
wlll^bc drawn two hlte'l(iftts (Oinl Iinnd Ol Pag Two)

---------------------------------------------------

"Dont kt bMt tbe dertl!" * claimed tfeelnp *0 Nunnl-.won the Hade* 900 'metr.-^Oberhn 
Review. . '' 
In Later Life
Early habits are enduring one Begin now to acquire thooe < saving and aCcttrrlulating .morie; 
An account with the Mellon Ni tlenal Bank will give you splendid .tart. Persistent a< Inea will develop financial Indi pendence. The experience, I say nothing of the money Itael
MeUon National BankPlitsb^h. Pa.
SF CATERING 
Prices Reasonable
That our, Refresluneut 
Entertainment is most de
sirable for Fraternity ond 
ell other School Affairs, 
experience will convince.
Small orders Teceive tlie 
 same careful attention as 
th more extravagant
ELLIOTTS 
4010 Fifth ,Ave. 
Store is Convenient 
for Students 
Supplies
SBtoblleb_ Jl neliliQd Is Blocked. . _____adtsetheir studies.
We reciprocal with,low price tentlon.
Two.Luncheons Held 
Locally Last Week
Inter-School Alumni and 
Pittsburgh Clan Both 
Meet, and Eat
Several luncheons were held locally by alumni. An' Intercollegiate Alumni Dinner was held Wedneedayevening, March 30, at the Hotel Scheoley, and Saturday tbe Pittsburgh Clan had Its regular 
monthly : luncheon at the William Penn Hotel.
Carnegie Tech had a fair reprellegiate-, and Dr. Bai
attondance 
In all then
Ask Me Another
:l 7-
i arid, 0. g Pics This I 12.
Mr. Sullvun or Pen briefly in bohulf ( leglato Alumni Hoi
1 were pleased to cl >iie time instructors. Beatty, president
my of Pittsburgh. Thos<
Aslc Me Another, wlll'keep you Informed about ' Carnegie. Send your queries to tbe Tartan Office, and.they will be answered, ir we-Tall the faculty promises its erudite assistance. Try to answer the questions this week and watch for the answers next issue.'
1. What is . the Carnegie
Foundation? x
2.' Who was the Laird of 
Skibo?
3. What was the first frater
nity organized on the 
campus? 
4. Who designed the Car
negie Buildings.
5. What is a Charette?
6. Why are the Girls Dor. mitories named, after trees?
How many links are there 
o,n the Carnegie Chain? 
Who originated "the idea 
of the Arts Ball?,
Who composed the in
scription above the stage 
in the little theater, "Ici 
'inspiration deploye ses 
ailes?
What was the purpose oi 
the car tracks on Woodlawn avenue?
What was Langley Labor
atory used for during the 
war?
Why..was the Tunnel built 
under the Campus? Where 
does it run?
Are the Mens Dormito
ries named after Carnegie students?
When was the first Cam
pus Week held? Who was 
the first Campus Queen? 
What . was the original 
intention of tbe Grill?
GIRLSRIFLE TEAM 
DEFEA1S PENN-STATECLAN NEWS
The Girls Rifle team has finished Us season in a mo6t fitting manner. by defeating; the Girls Rifle team of Penn State which is generally-accepted as one ofthe best in the .country. 'The match .was exceedingly close, beinglost, or rather won, by one point. Penn Slate scored 49C out of a possible
Carnegie can weU be proud ot her Girls Rifle team this year. Although this was the first year of intercollegiate competition, the girls lost only three matches out of approximately 20 shots. The Universities of Kansas and ;Cin?embers of the Tulsa ClAn guests of Mr. and Mrs. A. J. and Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Texit Uie' homefoC<Mr. and Mrs.-
ip Suey a la Lottie with rice biscuits was the piece de anco. After a moBt. enjoyguests spent several .hours playing bridge.J Those present were:I Mrs. H. n. Auerswald ,
13.
salive aidsold. pills
'Iiat lengthy but highly h' leertatlon upon after dim ig. pro and con, be mat
eers. He showed that engineer ig was the oldest profession on irth, and then proceeded to eluc* ate the fact that people do not claate the engineer of today.
nginets Is due to the
r Maryland barly '
toff, George Ellertou and others noted lor their promioence in athletics and - student activities during their careers at Carnegie.TJIbrook announced appreciation of tbe large turnout of prep students' and faculty ; and later gave some idea of the plans onERIE CLAN
On Friday evening, Marcli 25th. the Erie. Pennsylvania Clan entertained Graduate Manager Clarence Orerend at a dlnuer In the Yv 51. C. A. T. Harrison Reed tbe president presided aud there were about forty members of the Erie Clan that turned out for the evening. Quite a number of teachers and students and teachers from  the Erie High School -ere there us
oll wHI k$ 
eh tvtfent who Pr*- ad when purchasing a <n at Singer Pen & Gift ina Arcade. Ooea your 
ted repairing? Take It
First Church of Christ, ScientistClyde Street. Near'Fifth Avenue Sunday, 11 A. M. and 6 P. M. Wednesday. 8 P. M. Snaday School. 11 A. M. 
Church olths Ascension_______(Episcopal) ^
Cor. Ellsworth and Neville
Vesper Servie
EXclan.
of America.
I high point scorer.lelen Bright, Alice Bright. Jeany and Florence Shapiro all have
iis section were present. Carroll, counected with ; Mfg. Company of AliiLeah Kellei le Servlck. I yji Shulls,
ears football team
FLOYD IM. JACOBS
3006/2 FORBES STREET 
akland Pittsburgh, Pa.
moving pictures of tbe i Iball games, with Univt Pittsburgh, New Yo
Cliff Restaurant
1Ch urcol tsAer uosnno
dlCIOGlClUTP 5u
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE 
Before ..the days of Corona illese work was wrlfc Now every* ritten. Youll, work In every world. ' Mon today than all* of portable ne In and see el. it Is the portabfe typen by filng is typev
only $60.00. We also have
nas as low'as $25.00. STANDARD TYPEWRITER COMPANY 
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0342
winch the sco liest men wer :a, 195; Essig,: and Whitmci li. .Brodel) ha employ of Hi 
el Corporation''and >rl vacation befor
Ceni
be allowed to t until It has eros
ond white line, qualified.Letters have
2. What is to glbfllty of pushei . 3. Wether the.
i tlie Pittsburgh Polle
e of the 
i Depr.rtn the Restora) he sat
ive talks before high school eritsof the city, explaining tlie neers how, where, and wliat. lie modem business world. r remarks by Slilnkle, jokes by
lesion-was held concerning 5 for'a summer outing of the
iere will be another monthly
Judgiti 
bone of
s behavior Sampre than the jaw
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
. STYLES. TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED , 
SERVICE. IN THE UNITED STATES.
Kwtev House
StaHa an4 Tepetate 
*40, *48, *SO
e BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT
' OUR STORE IS THE __
Charter Jfcouse3
OF PITTSBURGH 
The character of the suits and 
topcoats tailored by Charter House 
rill earn your most sincere1 liking.
. MORRISS
Permanent Display^ Booms 
Saite 270 Webster Hall
Sms
^n at last to compost m he was the embl lassloned adherent ol
/e been held o i traditional v. i it tbe great
ilttee are made up of the folconsciously taken the side of Sa-. g men: Fred Woods,' chair-'tan and the rebel angels.Campbell. Buckley. S.chmirt! In Samson Agonlstes the pasDean. With such a capabte1 sionate poet spoke again and as of workers, the Sweepstakes I In "Paradise LosL there is the d : prove even a greater  suesame  divergence between the exeffect.- The them
This fOne). ,jtor 
prises of dr Wally Poyntz, Pete Rygg. George for Harry Cohen and Josephthe rail, yietor Eslcer who It. aed the choruses ot the I Du
spirit o it is i tion of the go apparently v
last 1indie the
I Ball
y novel feature of thi; How will be the presenta i heavy (235 lbB. per per ima, by the varsity foot q. Selections for the acti In after the' cast tor Uu Week show has beei
(Continued Tom t*aee One) cille Z. Galmlsh. V. N. XJnderwooi R."E. Neibel, W. L. Wllmer, Sai Simpson, Milton Cohen, - T. ( ;,_and-V. F. Hasenberhl, is a
r whlcl) Mil Lon t
Although Milton iristlan. poet, Dr Ined that he was
.SCHENECTADY
Schenectady Clun
Wednesday evening.Eleven members wei ereet Bi^ddy Overcn Yoder, as well as to ii
The report of Uie
following^ officers ale dont. J. M. Sampson,President. J. L Secretary-Trensi 26. Members of the executive Cbmmltte. Mrs. ''Robert Wheeler, M. M.. and E. G. Royston. E. 23.- Io. the president. Schenectady has a very active aUimnus. While
Knight.
f theoriginal founders of the Taring the first business manaVfter graduation, he became st president of th? Science
guest Mr. Stoddard. .Superiot dent ' of the Schencctady Schoi Arter short talks by Buddy ! Lloyd, th^ remainder ot the ev
ent. having left the' parly a York.lose present * included J. L rht' W. E. Caven. L. E. Hughes L Johnson. Ray Gill.. C. M :st, F. 0. Stebbins, all o nectody. and Mr. ' and Mrs >. Pitt9. Mrs. Robert Wheclei . Raystpu: of, Albany.
PHILADELPHIA
Philadelphia Clan it party In its his light. Mar.the
triumph ot the
Oakland 
Savings ft Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
The Oakland Bank'*
Capital-----$300,000.00
Surplus-----,$300,00
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
negienhia district. To thi!students, cot ere invited I
or th Afreet, Pht!a<
fertlse CarIdely in the Phitadeliches
Wayne, Pa.. Camden. New Jersey and suburbs. Central High School,' Germantwon HJgh School. West Philadelphia High School, Germantown Academy. Haverford School; Chestnut Hill Academy, Northeast High School, La Salle Prep. St. Joseph's Prep.After a delightful dinner and get-together meeting, the assemblage was called to order tiv Gilmore L. Ttlbrook in the absence
RAINCOATS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Mens; $6.00Color: Grey.Womens, $6.50Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and 
red.Auf hammer and Evans
6100 PENN AVENUE"
In a Little Spanish Town
How delightful! 'When the music' strikes up and. ' you. waltz ,with the girl of your dreams to the strains.of In'a Little Spanish .Town," played by your favorite orchestra and you are dressed correctly lu a; finely tailored tuxedo rented from
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
 What could be more delightful 
002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADEPHONES \
OayGrant 2604 NightLafayette 4701 A
^ Florida 
Director
trip foi
Carnegie ' and the:ourses given there and then jenlightening talk on tl n engineering as Interprc
1928 all-aptaln,troduced, and spoke, ot his appreciation ot the athletic conditions at Carnegie, especially of 'our' coaching and training staff.
"Buddy Overend'then' presented several reels of movies containing last seasons 'football games with Pitt. New York University
Dy several nunurea suaea ot t cample,' building, .interior, and a dent viewa and .buddy's commei andstories.were thoroughly ei joyed by evoryone present  The meeting was followed I dancing in the main-dining :rooi of tbe: Arcadia. Cafe. Among the promtnent alumni . present  were noted Jimmy Robertson.' Earlr. 
"Chuck Charles. Colonel Frank P. Day, Dutch? - Kreider. -Ben Krlatcretary visited Buitalc tbe pleausn ,ir of the city and Niaglarence : Overenti oder, they both mat nd' then Overend j
i MENS SENIOR BALL
(Continued From Page One.) The ticket sale has been um -ay'for almosta week, and the esiring tickets should purcht hem immediately and be sufe fee well spent in the pursuit
. STANLEY-ROWSTRAND
.AND-CLARKSMANOR
April 6 and 7
Stage Madness 
VIRGINIA VALLI
What Every Girl 
Should Know 
PATSYRUTH MILLER
Casey. At The Bat
WALLACE BEERYWild Oals Lane
VIOLA DANA 
ROBERT AGNEW
Saturday '
KEN MAYNARD 
The Unknown 
Cavalier
The Great Gatsby
WARNER-BAXTERThe Great Gatsby
WARNER BAXTER
GET YOUR SJUDENT TICKETS FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE
CAMEONOW.
FIFTH AVENUE. Downtow
CARL LAEMMLE, JR. presents
The CoUegians(The CIndei
lelightful series i College Ufe
LAURA LA PLANTE 
"THE LOVE THRILL
- LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
DancingCRAIG AMD FORBES.6TS. 
Beginners Monday and Friday Evenings. Adv&oced, Thursday and Saturda
by appolntmer  MayflQN
lessom
-4
S TANLE Y-RO WLAND-CLARKS
Evening: Flr&t FlooreCHENLEY
^ THEATER 
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, APRIL 6 AND 7That Model From Paris'
MARCEUNE DAYBERT LYTEI&
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, APRIL 3 AND 9CASEY AT THE BAT
WALLACE BEERYFORD STERLING
I MacQUARRIE I ^
1Churco lrt1rsAer n iEES
 7 GIRL HARPISTS 
AY AND TUESDAY, fePRIL'11 AND 12Butterflies In the Rain*
LAURA LA PLANTE
The natural choice
Out of the whole lot men pick 
Chesterfield for its genuine tobacco 
characterits natural good taste.
Get-the natural char.. acter of fine tobaccos in 
>your. cigarette aad 
V yoa-get evetything!
IiGGrrrAc EiAHPOlnTgGm 7l

---------------------------------------------------

BUTLERS
jLu nAppAC srClGACIAP414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET Wo Pallver All Order.-  J. O. BAKER,. Manager Mayflower 7644,. , .
, REGAL -Direct 
University Service, 
from Coast to Coast
Come in and look over the new Regal line of special 
college models. They are 
recognized as thestandard 
of style end value from 
coast to coast.
The Shoe illustrated is the' 
Elian English Brogue in 
Genuine Imported Tan 
, Heather Grain. The single 
? hole perforations are a new 
\ style Featurealso in. 
1 Black. . , .
7/ib nmv "RBSCO** Fitting Sot vice used exo/usiV9jy.
REGALSHOES
at 4:30 tbe first 
ent scheduled-for. the annual lo* 
riraternlty track meet will bo 
ImN Tbe-. events will continue 
throughout Wednesday and Thursigs and .include.the. following vents:
100-yard dash, 225-yard dash, 
440-yard, dash, half mile run, mile 
120-yard low hurdles, 120- ligb hurdles, one mile rela;
ing. hlgli
As usual., these races will be rim under tbe watchful eyo of Coach Guy Halferty who hopes to strengthen, bis varsity and plebe outflts with material uncovered by the two-day meet. The track is in fine sbap\ and the numerou tries indicate keen competltl the various events.
Stem Leoae. Sweden, Byria, and Turkey..
THE 1NTRA MITRAL BASKET DA-LL. FINALS are over, will) I match held between Carnegie Tech, lalmed as the Victor. And thus is the dope bucket Pitt and Penn State on Carnegies indicated Sigtna Nu or range last. Saturday. It was. a 
three position match consisting ot  " .prone, Kneeling and st&nding. Ther tbe-loss ot their.. Sig's late____march through th seriestriumphantfrom the spectators point too had-that the deciding gaiwas tot Alpha Tau Omegas fault. They deserve ci playing the game, with but one regular physically lit.
THE ANNUAL INTRA tylURAL tmplijneet will be and Thursday in. the-.Carnegre>bovil.NAIl fratei
maVbe^n "unknown^lrm' iJTour'mldl^S'l
itlfy. 'The only regret or a possible 1,500 pointa; Carnegie. Is thatjast game. It was certainly 11.392; Pitt, 1,366..'
did. But It w. D. Catnpbeli, Carnegie Toch's !Ven I high mian. had tbe highest indlvjdJ ual score In tbe match with '289 out .rew or .a jiossible 300. . .This was Eve
edit for I
tbose of football and <
BETA THE A Pi w< Saturday. Much good m
IN ACCORDANCE <
' State. Another kn<
.'and id orma -arel points .better -itan, the nearest, 
et will disclose. Burns, a Peun State man, made a
t, satura ta .h, tod r.., '"tS.S"'0' 1W  blS lme0'-it in thti Panther's tall, along side 1D? P.11
iura! :ming i, held
ALL LEAGUE TEAMS
Raymond Bundi
(kW outstanding
Tourist phICm cABiK serviceto
$ a,f95l">" S
In our fieets you have the choice of 
1. The only i
TRIP
,(p)
^ The largest shije carrying Tornisi Third Cabapss-.
5* ' The laigest . by any ,nG
These are but the tangible RptN^NN^^N .. which has delighted thousand! of eollegc men ana woms in recent years.
Early reservatum oj spate is letommnded' WHITE STAR LIMERED STAR LINE LEYLAND LINE ATLANTIC TRANSPORT UNE
sy (ATO) (Scob). <PKA) (SAE) (Scob)
sy (DTD >m (BSR len (SN)
r(PK) Hy (PK) Kin (DU) i0h (BTP)_
o, McGill;Cappa Sign ,oe, Sobell
s. PI Kappa Alpha. Federal League Kilgoi u Delta; Rechemeuer, Sigma Nu; Knutsoi urn, Kappa! Sigma Rho. ' American Leaguein; DodgeJ Delta Upsilon; Bronson, Theta timid, Phi Kappa; J. Woods, Phi Kappa.ALL SCHOOL TEAMS :lze1ter, Phi Kappa........... Forward......ickley. Alpha Tau Omega.... Forward.........Connelly. 
..High, Bet.5SS
much thought <
ycEVbsd$2 .0N
a mighty got 
ability,. Allei
M.M. SOPHS BEAT 
ARTS GIRLS 11-8
Sophomores captured the 
basketball championship by 
defeating the Fins Arts team 11-8. 
The 9opbs lost year as Plebes conerred the same honor upon their 
:Iass when they defeated all their Opponents. ' This year, again, the earn was undefeated'. The Soph outfit, which..la the same..as last, year with the exception of several substitutes, 'displayed a much superior brand By .basketball this year both ' individually, and collectively. The team consists of Dot Hill and Gladys Connor, forwards; ~ ' ude Zenk, center; Rene La e, ' side center, and Betty hall and Dot Roy. guards,' Harriet  Felsenlhal, . Helen et. and Fran Guy substitute championship game was unsually close and hard fought start to finish, both teams dogreat deal of fumbling. The
INTRA-MURAL WON 
BY KAPPA SIGMA
Several Close Games in the 
Finals--A Number of 
Players Injured
The Intra-Muml basket bnl soir closed. last Saturday with Kappa Sigma, the victors'. Up t finals, little notice fiad been pal0 to the Kappa .Slgs, but/this ' proSatly aiie to^he i'acic of very good teams on', the schedule, making it unnecessary! for them show the quality of basket, ball which they were capable.. . In t finals tliey were requlretl. to ,play the strong 'Phl\ Kappa,;'A. , T. C and Sigma Nu earns, and (t wi
dcfecathe
 OUB AOVERTISERS
C.W. READING . i * from forester to store manager
jMeto^lUlX)umT7o1lamx\\t flveralli^Vhey laughed at tne'Voc buslneas of wood pracrvation l(S. Ivina up an aloeK aute thing r go - a company whote^taldeM m a to wotkfot a big corponileft beta
S2Erfi,!'"Al
S^^Ss^rKsSSifi  fKfisrfflJSs'JSiKSss;'-
% *  *Now; Seniors^  
its up to You!
- Your college career will soon be over. And then you must choose.your life Work. How 
importantit is that you get started right. 
And'ir is. entirety up. to you! You may start 
in a position that gays well now, but which - 
offers.litde or no opportunity for advancement. 
Or you. may start for si little less in a Job 
where there is' much to lcam, but which.offers 
an unlimited future-to those who are faithful 
 and willing to work and study hard.
'We tart college men at the.bottom. Butas 
they learn and advance we pay them more. In 
a few years they may become store managers 
dignified positions which pay. high salaries. 
If you are interested in the job with a future, 
'write now'to our Personnel Department. We 
will send a man who has already found success 
with this organization, a graduate of your own 
college-' to meet you and tell you more about 
our business. , : -i
/ Personnel Dept
S S KRESGE CO9* lO' XJ4 5TOI\EJ OͻA>12 TOIVE5
KRESGE BUI LDIN. G . D ET HO IT-vs  .M IH^-.G ;A N
d the lead 
at the second quarter, but Phi Kappa gradually forged ahead mainly through tho excellent has ket shooting or Letielter and Con nelly. In the second quarter, with the score tied. Woods and Rlttci were taken out,-  thereby ntaklnp Phi. Kappa' victory much more difficult. Bush .and Keuster play ed a good game for tlie v r. O.u In the Sign a. Nu game that. the 
liappa Sias' first showed themselve? to b'e formidable contenders for the cnp. This was a highly inter; eating game with both sides play: Ine fast, rough and very ood basket ball. Lestle, Allen and West played a brilliant game. Tor the 
KaDpa Slgi
feat
defeated the A. T. O.s by one^polnl III a fast and rough game, with the A. T. O.s in the lead up to the
ufTered ;
a. t. o;eral Injuries. Buckley ed, vrlth a cracked breast bone. and'Keuster with Injured ankle. ^On Saturday afternoon' Kappa Slgma won their final game by walloping the A. T. O.s. The A. T. O. team put up a good fight considering that Bush. Keuster and Brodbeck and.Buckley., were not laying.. The Kap'pa Sigs displayed excellent team work, and outplayed the . Ai T. O.s In every way. mounting \ up a lead of 32 points. Allen, Leslie and West continued their brilliant playing and Turner, Co'wan . and Aaher played a good game for tbe A. T. O.s.- - The larre up goes : to Kappa Slema. while Phi kappa.,.Alpha Tau Obiega and Sigma Nu ach rereive a smaller cup. -Thls'closes
hoped .that next 2 basket ball.seaso
Kappa plmoa .
I of the Final,
phl-itoppa^.. '.-Alpba Tau.'Omega .
. KappaSIgmj,.
i beforeand Ilahdlcppped them. Carnogle Tecli closed Us vine scali with this mutch. Tho varsity .9 lost only three matches out or
id these Were all lost by narrow
1 (Vest Virginia.)his brachlopods.AthenaHAVE YOU TRIED OUR PUNCH FOR YOUR bANCE?
Thi* Coupon and. 40e wlll ' ' ntHle you tcr'a 50o-dlnner. 
THURSDAY EVENING 4:30-8:00 P. M.
TRY OUR 3Be LUNCH 
Speolal  Pastries with Fra ternlty letter for occasions.
xStunralls Tea Room .
571D FORBES STREET Phone Sclienley 931B
David; Klafer^u asked (he 1U1< sol stale legislature tor I10.G00. 000 with* which to carry - oa the work of. the Loiverslty of-Illinois lor the next two years. Os and oce-half' million dollars of. that
Tho most the avengra chemistry students know,, about nitrates Is lhai they are cheaper \ thaa day
Yourself and Sriends Are Invited to
DANCE
Every Saturday Evening at the New
Central Athletic Association
CLUB HOUSE, CRAIG & FILLMORE SIS. 
Tommy Dixons Sultans of Tempo"
Trni>[
future-demund for
; controlling ihe
s iii the methods of iclois Influencing the  of coal iu different
(Continued from Page One) dents enrolled with the exception 
of New.Hampshire and Wyoming which -have one each.Of tlie .71 foreign students reg-' isteted,'Canada Jeads.wlth.l. Palestine is second on the list with eight and China, is third with ilve. Mcxico and India have four each, while Porto Rico, Russia and Scotland have three each. Other countries with one or more.of their native eone and daughters enrolled / Pittsburgh's colleges are Argentine, Brazil, British West Indies, Egypt, England, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Japan. Netherlands. NorwaylPhllModern smoking pleasure 
that never fails
THB smokers of this age are the most will 
. independent ever known. Accepting 
no hearsay! they have smoked oiit the 
 facts. They havelearned that the 
choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos grown are roUed into Camels, 
that here Is .the incomparable blend-'
never fail you, never give you 
but the finest thrill of smoking I* nann.pleasure. This'is why; Camel's popu
larity! by far the largest in the modern 
world keeps overwhelmingly in the 
lead. As modem taste b&comes nWc 
insistent upon" choice tobaccos, ining for goodness that Camels simply creasing millions discover Camels innever tire the taste..comparable mildness, smoothness and.
 Camel is the d^arette that, never mellowness, i.
faib to please the moden^ age. Re- If you want the cigarette that*fi 
gardlfss of how often you want the good^ to live with front worn. to m\A., 
comfort of a smoke of how steadily night the one that is the choice of the
you light one after another, Camel modern age, <r-ComeW
uN 4N uvDL2BY OLW577L 7LEj5Dvf g9DYOLDgY52Wd DN 7N
A chain is as strong cs its weakest link
You use automatic machines. You employ quantity methods of productibn. But how about your fuel?
Remember this. Any uncertainty in the application of heat, strikes at the very heartof quantity production 1
Automatic machines call for automatic fuel. Gas. is just that. It is 100% controllable. With gas you can. increase or decrease the quantity of heat-instantlyto suit the exac t 
speed of production.
The result is : maintenance of.'production schedule, uniformity of product and fullest 
economy. Have you yet investigated the merits of gas for your plant? , j 
.Write tothe American Gas .Association, for information ori what gas is doing for others 
in your line of business'. . /
American Gas Association
, 342Madison Avenue New York City ,
YOU CAN DO IT BETTER WITH GAS
.IS
iI

---------------------------------------------------

non dTpp
..iBSaEag
EDITORIAL STAFF '
Editor-lii-Chler ...................Merrill HoUtnaheadManaging Editor..*...'...............................Sam-WellNewe Editor.1.......................................Frwda Kolb :'Athletic Editor..........Frederick D. Wood
\ CONTRIBUTING .EDITORS 
Ellenor Tallmadge Robert M. PewRnasall BnHlsger ..  -Harold Jacobson-Ralph Hltcicock Barto GriffinAJ5. Fisher ; ; - Eugene ScanlonW. Bernard N
JUNIOR EDITORS Meredlthi Stump - Milton CobenFenton Finn , Jean'Boy -
, ALUMNI EDITORS  .Margaret KossellHerbert Gran
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS .
Florence MeLaugbUo , Helen ReedJosephine Clark 4/ Jobn Schneider 
REPORTERS Stewart Ralston Bob Young Clyde ParkJoseph O. Ritter Miriam Ms Harry Wldom Henry Dux Cyril Letzelter Roth Brain
William McNeil H^e Katharine O'Donnell 'Jacob Carpe Bower Maze N Carl Kumpf
w "In Sprin(jr--tEy
BUSINESS STAFF
CirculationAdvertising Manager.....................Sbelby McMUUon
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS James Seibert T. R. Zenk R. Nobltf
CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS
|sari&3j 
ssr.arir*mum day rate under the Jacksonville agreement la 57.50 a day.
SSsESSS
The United Press says (in the editorial section
^o.a'sifjrss.'srSam en 0.1,. te years into the futura. . I 
STUDENT, j I
COAL STRIKE GIVES PROMISE OF LONG LIFE
asrjTLMthe union operatore were able toit is true that when they try to ex.
PAJAMAS
In thejMk'Modern MannerS
youll find them here, in a 
selection as wide and varied 
and interesting as the fads 
and whims and new crea
tions of fashion can-make it. 
Two-piece or thvce-piece . 
however you willin prints, 
silks, satins, inctal cloths 
endless variety!1
Prices from1   .
$2.95 to $25.00_v.
' Joseph Horne Go]j
eaves the-Faceo. m$y
GLOVE-SMOOTH
F r^HE super-moist, saturated lather of.
. i X Williams Shaving Gream.does more 
than soak the beard bristles soft for easy 
. shaving. It docs more than lubricate the 
razors pathpreventing little cuts and 
scratches. For Williams actually-^onditions '
>. the skinleaves. it glove-smoothgives 
you that barbers massage feeling. Two 
. si2es*3$c and 50c. v
Williams Slpying Cream
"meBtn ' ilwy do not like to 
told that their beloved author mm queer names tor hjs..characters,' and that a certain story about the Sphinx and the Centaur doe*n t' mean anything, and that/, another about' the Terrible Mud falls to. remind them of any mud they
It,, Is. divorced Jrom ethics? Is a sonnet about a raindrop worth as much, In the flnal-analysis, as a recipe (or bean soup, or, agalu,.la a
tbau the one which Is lost among; leaves? Is It better to eing about glory than Just to sing for the sake r singing? Is It will-to spend me dreomlng when we might be emmlng napkins, or bottling ichles, or cultivating cabbages, or building lien coops? And le It wlee listen to a man who ha nothing tell but dreams, when we could 
t as conveniently lleteu to somea who will show us how to lay
. because Plato himself tried to answer It, and could not do It, and that discourages me. There lave been only three men since the olden Age a6 great as Plato, but bey are all dead now, so that we hall have to wait until another Is 10m, and when he Is old enough, iek him. There 16 a man in Vienna whO'liao been trying all his life
mdw ".V ilher?;and ' r-rad
the storr ot Thjujtobrttid the-J^w-- 
eldei\tnd The Wpnderfal Widdow, and The Field, and. - Chabu aad 
Sheemlsh.~and The. Que.m. /the  Queen-'s-Teats.' and>;the Coronation-;, of Mr. Thomas Shapp, PomBo the ". IdolatoY. and the Bride of the Man*- Horseand" forget'to goln/toeupper. -ThlB Is their answer to the question. aud It cannot'.tie denf&i. tfcat It ia a.good one!.', j' *
We Haye Learned That it is 
Better to Use - 
Kissel Sfciles Rent a Car Service
For All Occasions
THREE STATIONS 
6107 Broad Street 655 Sixth AvenueHlland 1300 Grant 1900 %
125 Seventh Street student Passes Issued. .atAtlantic 466C Tartan Office
Carnegie Techs Smartest Dressed Men Wear the Celebrated
Suits and 
Topcoats
And Choose Them from the Exten
sive Variety Shown by the 
Kaufmann & Baer Company
$40.00
$4SUOO
SSO.OO
t Society Brand clothes In the Coaserva_ Vebster Hall on Marcft ,29th. . They cfx. 
een admiration for the smartness of the 
beauty of the fabrics and patterns, and 
d. tailoring, 
the smartest of the Spring styles In  
le new three-button coat Ideawith coin 
tulstandlng values at $40$45 and $50.
KAUFMANN & BAER CO.PITTSBURGH UNIT OP
GIMBEL BROTHERS. INC.ftMMitonwm -CjMBil BROTHERS KvnMANNS'BtfMb
TO YODEK 
CAHNEOIE INST . OP
PITT3BOT0H PA 
;U HAVE FR0BAB1Y NOTICES THE 6HEAT P0PU1ABXTY OF OHE
-OWSIIB o P. TOB AC GO AMONG YOVH PHIENDV/RO DEMAffl) 
PEHPETIOK .IN PIPE i " THE HSiSOH IS THAT POE' 
TWENTY YSAH3 BIB BOAB I "'TO
OB' TASTE-WI
PEHFECTIOH IM PIPE aifc.
TS/HTY YKAH3 BICE BOAB HAS BEE1I SKUPOll a...I 
PROVIDE HOT OP TASTE'WITH A CUAIITY THAT IS BBYOKD
CRITICISM OB QTJESTIOH, ^ ^ \
THEHK is UTSRllY KO f g
BETTES TOBACCO MAE*
THE AI.EHICB TOBACCO CO
One nian tells another
i X-. >. -* kPw r i -
