The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36.. .No. 19CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1943
Books To Read Help 
The Servicemen Fight
Good ideas are bullets. This slo
gan symbolizes the Carnegie book 
drive which is gathering steam un
der the efforts of the S. W. A. C. 
and the C. I. T. War Committee. The 
purpose of this drive is to secure 
books for the Army, Navy, and Ma
rine Corps. Books have an import
ant place to fill in the war of ideas; 
whether as a source of morale or in
formation, they are recognized by 
our military leaders as part of our 
fighting equipment. Last years 
campaign brought over ten million 
books.
The purpose of this drive, there
fore, is to provide good books for our 
fighting men, good books from the 
standpoints of both physical condi
tion and readability. The following 
classifications of books are particu
larly desirable: (1). Popular novels 
and non-fiction published since 1930.
(2). Adventure, detective, mystery, 
and western novels regardless of 
date. (3). Technical books published 
since 1935. (4). Pocket and small 
editions of popular books. (5). 
Humorous books, books of jokes 
humorous stories, anecdotes, and 
cartoons.
There will be collection boxes in 
Industries, Machinery Hall, Mar
garet Morrison, and Arts. Lets see 
them overflow with pleasant leisure 
and technical information for the 
armed forces. Those scant spare 
moments between. mess call and 
bivouac can be converted into use
ful recreation with a little effort 
on your part. Any book you really 
want to keep is a good one to give.
Shoe Rationing Clarified 
For Carnegie Students
There have been some questions 
of late as to the status of the col
lege foot sinfee the advent of shoe 
rationing. After a preliminary in
vestigation, the Tartan will now try 
to answer some of these questions.
No shoes can be bought at home 
or at school without submitting 
coupon 17 of the sugar and coffee ra
tioning book; this coupon cannot be 
used if torn from the book.
In many of the fraternities on the 
campus, the rationing books are col
lected for the use of the house. If 
this is the case, those fraternity men 
can buy shoes by using the books 
turned in at the beginning of the 
year. A majority of those living in 
the dormitories have left their ra
tioning books at home since they 
have no need for them here at 
school. Hence in order to buy shoes, 
these students must send for their 
books. If these books are vitally 
needed at home, they may be re
turned after the purchase of the 
shoes.
A buyer may use the coupons of 
any member of his family. That is, 
each person is entitled to three pairs 
of shoes per year, and has three cou
pons for that purpose; but, for ex
ample, in a family of two, one may 
buy only two pairs of shoes while 
the other may buy four.
Six Faculty Members 
To Represent Tech At 
Metallurgy Convention
Six members of the faculty are 
representing Carnegie Tech at the 
American Institute of Metallurgical 
Engineers Convention being held in 
New York this week, Sunday 
through Friday. Eight papers will 
be presented, the speakers being 
Doctors Fetters, Geisler, Derge and 
Mehl. In addition, Dr. Barrett is 
attending a meeting of the executive 
committee of the Institute of Metals 
Division, and Dr. Rhines is an as
sociate chairman of the technical 
session of the Institute of Metals, 
which is meeting this morning.
Dr. Karl Fetters, a junior member 
of the A. I. M. E., will present a re
port, written by Dr. Fetters and 
Margaret Dienes, a member of the 
Metals Research Lab Staff, on Sil
ver Chloride as a Medium for Study 
of Ingot Structure. Two papers, 
written by Geisler, Barrett and 
Mehl, will be presented by Dr. Geis
ler; the titles of these papers are 
Aging in Solid Solution of Silver 
in Aluminum, and The Mechan
ism of Precipitation from the Solid 
Solutions of Zinc in Aluminum, 
Magnesium in Aluminum and of 
some Magnesium-Based Alloys. 
Dr. Geislers work for his doctors 
degree consisted partly of these two 
papers.
Dr. Derge will also present two 
thesesRapid Analysis of Oxygen 
in Molten Iron and Steel by him
self and The Electrical Conduc
tivity of Molten Blast Furnace 
Slags by Derge and Martin.
Three reports will be given by 
Dr. Mehl. Two of these are the two 
which will be presented by Dr. Geis
ler, and the other one, by Roberts 
and Mehl, is Effect of Homogeneity 
in Austenite on the Rate of the Austenite-Pearlite Reaction in PlainCarbon Steels. This is part of Dr. 
Roberts doctorate dissertation.
Former Carnegie Student 
Reported Jap Prisoner
Lt. John N. Comuntziz E36, for
merly declared missing in action in 
the Pacific Theatre, has been report
ed to be a Japanese prisoner. This 
fortunate announcement has reduc
ed the Tech Gold Star Casulty List 
to thirteen in number. Lt. William 
Walters, E40, not previously listed 
as a casulty has also been report
ed a prisoner of the Japanese.
Techs latest casualty of the war 
is Lt. James Lee E40 of the Army 
Air Corp. Lt. Lee who flew four mo
tored bombers was killed in action 
over the European theater of war 
on January 3.
Our service flag shows that 1,486 
former Tech students have joined 
the armed services as of February 
1. The alumni office announces 
that the blue service star fill be 
changed the first of every month to 
show the number of boys in the 
service.
Blackstonc Studio Photo
DR. FRANCIS COX
ex-war prisoner of Japs . . .
Dr. Francis Cox To Address 
Chapel "On ReligionThe Answer
At 11:30 today Techs Religious 
Emphasis Week will begin with Dr. 
Francis Coxs address in the Little 
Theater. Dr. Cox, who has lived in 
China for 21 years, is the first Jap
anese war prisoner to speak on our 
campus. He was formerly Chan
cellor of St. Johns University, 
Shanghai, and is now serving in 
Pittsburgh as rector in the Church 
of the Redeemer.
Plans for the week have been 
completed since the response from 
the ministers has been quite excel
lent. A different speaker will ap
pear at every fraternity house and 
dorm sometime during the week, 
speaking on the general theme of 
ReligionThe Answer. On Wed
nesday night Dr. Cox will speak at 
the Carnegie Union dinner at the 
dinner sponsored by C. W. C .A. 
This dinner and discussion is open 
to every interested person. Tickets 
for the dinner will go on sale at the 
YMCA office in the Union for 
thirty-five cents.
A great deal of credit should be 
given the members of the Religious 
Emphasis Committee for the fine 
work in obtaining speakers and 
planning such a complete program. 
Harold Dickson, 44, chairman on 
the YMCA cabinet, was in charge of 
scheduling speakers. The other 
members of the committee include: 
Dr. Warden, Mrs. Yon, Mr. Davis, 
Miss Miller, Virginia Wright, presi
dent of C. W. C. A., Don French, 
president of Y. M. C. A., and De 
Witt Lyon.
Following is a list of the speak
ers for the coming week:
February 14
Methodist Students .......................
.......................Dr. William Yeayer
February 15
Phi Kappa..........Father Roy Getty
February 16
Chapel___*v;*rr.. Dr. Francis Cox
February 17
A T O Fraternity .........................
.... Father William E. ODonnell
Beta Sigma Rho .............................
.............Rabbi Goodman A. Rose
Beta Theta Pi___Dr. C. Williamson
Continued on page 4
Ski Patrol Will Accept 
Physically Able Reserves
Members of the Enlisted Reserve 
Corp and men to be inducted may 
apply for assignment to basic train
ing with the mountain troops 
through the National Ski Patrol 
System. Opportunities for assign
ment to Officer Candidate Schools 
are the same in this as in any other 
branch of the Army. The chief re
quirement for volunteers is excep
tional physical ability, although ski
ing or mountaineering experience is 
valuable.
Applications are reviewed by the 
Pittsburgh Ski Patrol. For applica
tion forms or further information, 
write Miss Anna McCandless, 5860 
Marlboro street, Pittsburgh, secre
tary of the Pittsburgh Ski Patrol.
J]/enA Qnde/i fyaih
Norwegian Teachers 
Faithful To Students
Harald Land, a 31-year old Nor
wegian teacher and ski champion 
disclosed at a press conference in 
Washington that the Nazis have 
failed miserably in their attempt to 
regiment Norwegian youth and ed
ucation.
The Nazis will not admit they 
have lost the fight to enlist teach
ers and youths into Nazi groups, 
Land told reporters at the Nor
wegian Embassy. To hide their 
failure, they have closed down the 
schools for four months beginning 
December 1, 194, using as an ex
cuse the fuel shortage.
The arrest and torture of 500 of 
Norways 14,000 teachers did not 
shake the educators stand against 
the Nazi Laerersandband (Teach
ers Union) which the conquerors 
tried to compel all teachers to join, 
Land reported. As members of this 
commission, all teachers would have 
been forced to bring all their teach
ing activities into full harmony with 
the New Order.
Land described how  as a final 
pledge of sincerity  teachers stood 
before their pupils in classrooms all 
over Norway and repeated the 
now-famous Norwegian Teachers 
Pledge to Their Pupils on April 19, 
1942:
I will not call upon you to do 
anything which I regard as wrong. 
Nor will I teach you anything which 
I regard as not conforming to the 
truth. I will, as I have done here
tofore, let my conscience be my 
guide, and I am confident that I 
shall be in step with the great ma
jority of people who have entrusted 
to me the duties of an educator.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1943
CditosbL A>uncUasi
^lUe Wailuuf 'Wall 
Or The Trials And Tribulations Of An Editorl
There comes a time in every editors life when he feels that he must 
belly-ache about his troubles. Just what good it does to unload these 
troubles on the public is debatable. Surely he must realize that very few of 
this reading public ever considers his comments sufficiently intelligent to war
rant the effort of their reading. These are the feverishly written editorials 
that (as Sinclair LewTis so well expresses it in It Cant Happen Here) would 
excite three per cent of his readers from breakfast time till noon and by six 
P. M. be eternally forgotten.
Yet we are naive enough to ask to borrow the long-suffering readers 
shoulder to cry on about the cub reporters who want front page space for 
some little blurb that their math prof would like printed, or the star reporter 
saying that his story cant be in before midnight, and hes got a date right 
now, or where the junior editors are when the paper is to be made-up, or 
the proof-readers mistakes, or the people high-pressuring for space for their 
own publicity, or having to run all the errands, orad infinitum.
It says in the bookAccuracy is to be striven for all times. Imagine 
the editors feelings when reading the proof (after its too late to change the 
story) he comes across an article, the few intelligible parts of which are as 
accurate and factual as the original manuscript of Grimms Fairy Tales. All 
wre can do is apologize to Dr. Teare and make a note to send the storys author 
around to the Electrical department to find out what the score is.
It says in the bookEffort should be continually made to create and 
maintain the readers interest. Remembering the discarded copies of the 
TARTAN one sees by 10:30 on Tuesdays, we have included in this issue a 
questionnaire to find out what the readers want in the TARTAN. We sincerely 
hope that you will find time to intelligently fill out the blank and drop it in 
the inter-school mail slot at the post office.
It says in the bookAll the news while it is still news. We feel that 
we are really handicapped in having to compete with three large metropolitan 
dailies. We have gotten to the point where we are afraid to pick up one of 
the downtown papers for fear of seeing that they have beaten us on another 
story. In spite of Publicity Manager Max Hannums excellent cooperation, 
its like butting ones head against a stone wall to get a really hot story. A 
good example is the story which appeared Sunday in the downtown papers 
announcing that Carnegie was going to board 750 servicemen and turn the 
Commons into a barracks. We hadnt received an inkling of this story. 
Nightly we pray that someday we may scoop the metropolitan papers.
It says in the bookResist with determination all attempts of organiza
tions to monopolize publicity or positions. This is tough. On one side are 
demands from friend and foe alike; on the other side is the business manager 
and his limited budget; in the middle is the editor and his ideals, torn and tat
tered though they are. We like friends as much as the next fellow does, but 
we refuse to be dictated to, and you know what Lincoln said about pleasing 
everybody all of the time.
It says in the bookThe editor has the ultimate responsibility. This 
means we get it in the neck when someone doesnt receive his TARTAN, or 
enough or too much room is allotted to the sports page or the night school 
page, or the Chapel speakers picture isnt published, or a story isnt pub
lished, seven days a week.
We hope you will forgive us for letting our graying hair down; now, 
taking our daily shot of adrenalin, we return to our Ivory Tower to begin 
worrying about next weeks issue.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
WTBD FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BYNational Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
The Carngit God sob uil.d sd ud
igit  Los tyomog z kat vtatwngwi
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief...................................SC. 9887
Business Manager...............................BR. 4759
Entered as secona-elass matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office ander the Act of March 3, 1879.
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price <1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief...........................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder, Jr.
Business Manager .............................................................................................. Wilbur Thomas
Managing Editor....................................................................................................... Jeanne King
Circulation Manager.........................................................................................Chester Feinberg
ISSUE EDITORS
Managing Editor ........................................................................................................Elaine Levin
News Editor......................................................................................................... Helena Aronson
Feature Editor........... .................................................................................Gerry Edelson
Sports Editor................................................................................................................ Don French
Headline Editor.............................................................................................................Louisa Saul
Charge of Rewrite.........................................................................................................Dave Neuss
Copy Editors.............................................................Walt Darby, T. J. Harmany, Ed Goldstin
Staff Photographers......................................................................................Lew Klein, Ed Croop
Sports Staff: Mike Capobianco John Lindberg Bill Beamer Stu Lee Bill Ferguson
Business Staff..................................Martha Wagman, Lee Greenwald Lawrence Schtzer.
Reporters: Natalie Nathan, Lucille Schulberg, Geri Racusin, Mort Cohn, Ed Croop, 
Aron Beck, Norma Caplan, Sidney Gerhardt, Allen P. Golden, Adeline Herlick, 
Marty Jacobr ,T ^olb, Iris Kwall, Lois Marks, Jeanne Norris, Lola Patton,
Rhea Rothma y Rutkin, Alen Schneider, Alice Softs, Bob Gillespie.
Mentally, Jim Boyce is an old 
man. He has a wealth of experi
ence, gained from years of hard 
work and effort, that gives one the 
impression this isnt a guy to trifle 
with, he knows what hes doing.
There is soething about Jim; he 
thinks. Although it may sound 
humorous, its far from a joke. He 
thinks in terms of dates, facts and 
figures; he cooly figures why, when, 
and how. Jim is a Dramat. That he 
was made Treasurer of Student 
Council shows what the campus 
thinks of him.
Jims favorite hobby is people; as 
he says, his greatest pleasure is 
meeting people in all walks of life. 
Perhaps that statement is just a tri
fle inclined towards the dramatic, 
but its definitely true. I remember 
the time I met him in Baltimore 
during the last Christmas vacation. 
That night he was bound for the 
Bachelors Cotillion. (The Bache
lors Cotillion is the greatest event 
of the Baltimore social season.) The 
next night I found him at the prize 
fights!
I cant help but picture Jim Boyce 
as the quick-thinking, smooth poli
tician. In the field of politics, I first 
met him this fall when he was run
ning for the Treasurers desk of Stu
dent Council. At that time, I per
sonally panned Jim and his running 
mate, Bob Galbraith in a headline 
article. I expected him to get pretty 
sore about the whole business. As a 
matter of fact, I was very careful
to avoid him for the next few days! 
But it didnt bother him. He was 
smart enough to realize that the 
articles would boomerang into a 
tremendous plug for his campaign 
and he was right.
Since I have seen him in several
MR. JAMES BOYCE
... he crowns the Queen . . .
plays over at the Little Theater dur
ing the past few years, I asked him 
about his future theatrical plans. He 
assumed his sage-like expression, 
I have great plans for the future. 
As a matter of fact, I have it all 
figured out as to time, places, and 
dates, and he undoubtedly has.
... Council Minutes ...
On the Camvus is conducted for the 
benefit of the entire Tech student bodyIf you have any notices for the column, 
just type them up and drop in Tech P. O. 
Box 409 by Friday noon of the week be
fore publication.
Questionnaires in Question !
All Engineering students are re
quested to report immediately to the 
Engineering College Office upon re
ceiving their selective service ques
tionnaires in order to have the pro
per papers made out for filing with 
their Draft boards. Each student 
should also report his classification 
status and the date of its expiration 
and notify the office two weeks be
fore his classification expires.
Those Engineering students who 
have turned in their questionnaires, 
but have not requested information 
from the college as to their academic 
status should do so immediately .
Wanted! Red Cross Recruits
The Pittsburgh Chapter, Ameriican Red Cross, announces that 
there is a great need for Water Saf
ety instructors. Plans are now un
der way to train these instructors in 
a course which will be held from 
7:00 to 11:00 p. m. on Tuesday 
and Thursday evenings, beginning 
March 9. Candidates must be at least 
19 years of age and have a current 
American Red Cross Senior Life 
Saving Certificate.
A Senior Life Saving course will 
also be held from 7:00 to 10.00 p. m. 
on Tuesday and Thursday evenings, 
beginning Tuesday, February 16. 
Candidates for this course must be 
at least 17 years of age.
Both courses will be conducted at
the Carnegie Institute of Technolo
gy. Applicants are asked to get in 
touch with James R. Agnew, at the 
Pittsburgh Chapter, American Red 
Cross, Wabash Station, or to call 
GRant 1680 as soon as possible.
Discussion of Atlantic Charter!
A discussion club meeting will be 
held today in Room 229cthe time 
12:30. Dr. Chapnfan, Assistant 
Professor of History, will give a 
preliminary statement on the At
lantic Charter to open the discus
sion. The meeting is open to every
body. Dont squawk, discuss!
Annual Faculty Reception
There will be a Faculty Reception 
Saturday the 20th in Fine Arts be
ginning at 9:00.
Pictures and Lecture by a Harper
Photographer
Margaret Bourke-White, Harpers 
photographer, will speak in Car
negie Music Hall on Wednesday at 
8:30. She brings with her some 
personal pictures to demonstrate 
the theme of her lecture.
Tech Soloists Featured at C. M. H.
A concert by the Student Sym
phony Orchestra in Carnegie Music 
Hall will be held on February 21, 
8:15 P. M. Soloist will be Kathrine Ewing, Oboe; Judith Feldman, 
Piano; and Gertrude Wrobliskie, Pi
ano. Tickets are available on ap
plication to the Music Department.
C. A. W. S. spelled backwards gives
S. W. A. C.!
The Student War Activities 
Council meets again at 4:30 today 
in Room 107 in Fine Arts. All mem
bers are urged to be prompt,

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
What is the age range and other requirements?
Very simple. You may join if you are a U. S. citizen, aged 
21 to 44, inclusive, at least 5 feet tall and not over 6 feet, 
in good health  regardless of race, color or creed. But the 
Army needs you nowdont delay. Total War wont wait!
Linguists needed. If you speak and write Spanish, 
Portuguese, Chinese, Japanese, Russian, French, German 
or Italian, see your local Army recruiting office now! You 
are needed for interpreting, cryptography, communications.
Some questions and answers of interest 
to every patriotic college woman
1
^rmy ^uxiliary jjorp
Fop fuptfcer information see your nearest 
A RR V RECRUITING A N R 9 xm Or Th ei O alsAnhadl bhuhadl
First of all, is the WAACneeded?
)*>
Emphatically yes! Already the President has authorized the 
Corps to expand from 25,000 to 150,000. The Air Forces 
and Signal Corps have asked for thousands of WAAC mem
bers to help with vital duties. Both Ground Forces and 
Services of Supply are asking for thousands more. Members 
of the WAAC may be assigned to duty with the Army any
where  some are already in Africa and England.
Can the WAAC really help win the war?
The whole idea of the WAAC is to replace trained soldiers 
needed at the front. If American women pitch in now to help 
our Army (as women in Britain, Russia and China do), we 
can hasten Victory  and peace.
The drilling sounds so strenuousI
Nonsense! The most beautiful women in America today 
are the girls in khaki! Some calisthenics and drilling are 
vital to general good health, discipline and tuned-up reflexes. 
After a few weeks at Fort Des Moines, Daytona Beach or the 
new Fort Oglethorpe training center youll feel better than 
ever in your life.
Then I have a ehanee to learn something new?
Yes, indeed. And the list of WAAC duties grows constantly. 
The training and experience you get in the WAAC may 
equip you for many stimulating new careers opening up 
for women.
What are mg chances of promotion?
Excellent. The Corps is expanding rapidly and needs new 
officers, both commissioned and noncommissioned. Those 
who join now have the best chances. All new officers now 
come up through the ranks. If qualified, you may obtain a 
commission in 12 weeks after beginning basic training.
What can mg college education contribute?
College training is important equipment for many WAAC 
duties too long to list. Cryptography, drafting, meteorology, 
laboratory work, Link trainer and glider instructing, for ex
ample. If you are a senior you may enroll at once and be 
placed on inactive duty until the school year ends. See your 
WAAC faculty adviser for more details.
But can I live comfortablg on WAAC pag?
Maybe I wouldnH like the work?
People are happiest doing what they do well. Every effort 
is made to place you where your service will count most 
toward final Victory. You may have some latent talent that 
will fill a particular need for work interesting and new to 
women  such as repairing the famous secret bombsight, 
rigging parachutes, operating the fascinating new electronic 
devices  or driving an Army jeep over foreign terrain.
There are few civilian jobs in which you could earn clear 
income, as WAAC enrolled members do, of $50 to $138 a 
month  with all equipment from your toothbrush to cloth
ing, food, quarters, medical and dental care provided. WAAC 
officers earn from $150 to $333.33 a month.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1943
tdo fuhE RVahC taCE
ijC AN0 tales
JUNIOR PROM TROTTERS were 
Ruth Means and Bob Galbraith, 
Marty Sekey and Dave Gilman, 
Marge Maddox and Jack Foley, Peg
gy Cole, Jr. and Dick Lingren.
NEW HEAT WAVE will be Beth 
McKenney, former Beetle who will 
enter the service soon. Also gone 
at Uncle Sams call is Gerry Moss. 
Well miss em both.
GONE BUT NOT FORGOTTEN 
are George Hobbs and Allan Mc
Donald, at least in Weezie Zonges 
opinion. She still corresponds with 
both. Also Ed Cully, who has been 
coming back nearly every week-end 
to see Spookie Phipps.
SEEN AT THE SCHENLEY Tassie Truxell with some handsome 
Louisa Saul, Naomi Ellman, and 
stranger. Same night, same place, 
Helena Aronson were singing Mu 
Alpha Gamma songs with their
dates for the other customers.
A BIG SECRET is what Maureen 
Dyer and Pat Werner are all ex
cited about. All we can find out is 
that is has some thing to do with 
Ohio State and Colgate, AND the 
Naval Training Program.
AINT LOVE GRAND though 
Mary Pollis, as Benny Laguerela 
dragged her to the Modern Lan
guage Club Meeting to hold her 
hand while he gave a talk in Span
ish. Then, too, Dotty Greiner is 
still corresponding feverishly with 
her summer, Christmas, (and all 
other vacations) romance. Of course 
we mean her Kappa Sig at Ho
bart.
WHAT THEYRE DOIN is at
tending the Coast Guard Academy 
at New London, Conn., for Dave El
lis and Chuck Nixon. Also Freddie 
Loeffler has just graduated from
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
p. m., February 9, 1943.
Absent: Messrs. Whiteside, La vie,
Lindgren, Martin, and Thompson. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Special
Miss Zonge reported that Glee ClubKiltie Band records will be on sale Tues
day, the 16th, in the Administration 
Building.
Social
Mr. Wolff moved that the revised peti
tion from Citcom Clan and the Mens 
Dormitories for the use of Arts School 
Exhibition Room for a joint dance on Sat
urday, April 3, from 9 to 1 be approved.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS
There was a discussion as to why In
tersorority Council should not have the 
privilege of helping Interfraternity Coun
cil to sponsor Sing and Swing. Mr. Gal
braith said that according to a motion on 
the books of Student Council, the Omicron Delta Kappa Society had the privi
lege of sponsoring this affair, since the 
Dragons had originated it and run it since 
1933. The motion stated that the O. D. 
K.s should have the privilege of main
taining and sponsoring the same social 
functions and campus activities for which 
the Dragon Society has heretofore been 
responsible.
Mr. Jones moved that Council rescind 
the right of Interfraternity Council to hold 
Sing and Swing.
Motion carried.
Mr. Shewitz moved that the Special 
Committee make an investigation as to 
whether the O. D. K.s or Interfraternity 
Council should run Sing and Swing and 
make a recommendation on this matter 
next week.
Motion carried.
Mr. Sher moved that no organization be 
granted special privileges in regard to 
any social functions on campus.
Mr. Jones moved that this motion be 
tabled until next week.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
ELIZABETH BEALL,
Secretary.
there. In the case of Elinor Sorg, 
its making Trail Blazer Trips to see 
her fiance in Chicago.
NEWSOME TWOSOMES are 
adorable Dorothy Schwartz and 
Erie Sherry, Dolly Willison and 
Bob Charters.
BEST STORY IN A LONG TIME 
is aboout Spinx Spangler who led 
Sammy Kayes band at the Stanley. 
When Sammy asked him what he 
was studying at Tech, Spinx said 
Printing Engineering! Dick DeMusey reports that he was the only 
member of the audience who got 
the joke.
THE LAST WORD in new cou
ples: Roger Beal and Frannie Carlock who date not only week-ends, 
but week nights, too. And since 
Danny Dickinson is no longer here, 
Mary McCarthy is back in circula
tion, with Karl Farrell leading the 
pack.
Carnegie Teachers Win 
Places In Art Exhibit
Clarence Carter and Balcomb 
Greene, two Carnegie Tech profes
sors, are the winners of first prizes 
in the thirty-third annual exhibit 
of the Associated Artists of Pitts
burgh. Other Carnegie Tech teach
ers, students, and graduates who re
ceived prizes and honorable men
tions are Roy Hilton, C. Kermit 
Ewing and Peter Lupori.
Mr. Carter, Associate Professor of 
Painting and Design, won the first 
prize in the oils division with his 
Smoldering Fires, a painting of a 
mother and child against the back
ground of a smoldering culm pile. 
Mr. Greene, Associate Professor of 
History of Art, won the Associa
tions Abstract Painting Award with 
his Monument to Yellow.
The exhibit which, is in the gal
leries of Carnegie Institute, was 
opened to the public February 12 
and will continue through March 11.
Emphasis Week . . .
Continued from page 1
Kappa Sigma ...'___s....................
.................Dr. Bernard C. Clausen
S. A. E.............Dr. C. Marshall Muir
Tau Delta Phi ...............................
.............. Rabbi Herman Halperin
Theta Xi............Dr. John R. Ewers
Forbes Hall .....................................
..........Rabbi Solomon B. Freehof
Mellon Hall... Father Leo A. Kraus
Carnegie Inn ...................................
.................Dr. Stillman A. Foster
February 18 
Mens Dorm. .Dr. Donald A. Spencer 
Delta Tau Delta. .Dr. Robert Gibson
D. U................................Dr. W. F. Orr
Sigma Nu........Rev. Donald E. Veale
February 19
Lutheran Students.........................
..................... Rev. John P. Stump
Ninth Group of Inspectors 
Enter Ordnance Training
As the war-time demand for tech
nically trained men and women in
creases, Carnegie Tech has begun 
training its ninth group of ord
nance department employees.
According to Major Charles B. 
Stanton, Administrator of Engineer
ing Defense Training, the nine week 
course enables the workers to do 
their war jobs better. Upon com
pletion of the training period, the 
men and women are known as Jun
ior Inspectors of Ordnance Mate
rials.
--------ON THE RECORD---------
Today
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles 
A. H. Pearson will be in charge of 
the following phonograph recital:
Till Eleunspiegl.....................Straus
Thursday 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Fred
erick Dorian will present this pro
gram:
Piano Concerto in B-flat Minor... 
................................... Tchaikowsky
Battle without headlines!
The men and women of Bell Telephone Laboratories are 
directing their energy these days to developing new and 
better communication equipment so vital in todays swiftmoving global war. * t
Peacetime developments, pioneered by Bell Labora
tories, are seeing action on every front. Many of their 
war-time achievements should prove stepping stones to 
progress in the coming days of victory and peace.
Service to the Nation  in war or peace, thats the one 
ideal of Bell System people.
Try our 
quick 
Lunches
Specialty . . .
Milk Shakes
and
Sundaes
PITT-TECH 
COLLEGE SPOON
Corner Forbes and Craig
INFORMAL DANCING
Every FRIDAY and 
SATURDAY NIGHT 
Billy Hinds Music 
$1 per person (plus tax)
See us about your next party
HOTEL SCHENLEY

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
"NO, THANKS. 
HAVENT YOU GOT 
A COCA-COLA?
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
The.Tartans YOUR Newspaper!
Carnegie Tartan
Tech Post Office Box 409
The object of the TARTAN Staff in presenting this questionnaire is to find 
out just what the campus likes to read in the TARTAN. Please tear out this 
questionnaire and deposit it in the inter-school mail slot at the Tech Post Office. 
We beg your sincere cooperation. Please answer yes or no in the space 
provided.
Editorials:Top Hat White Tie and Tales
..........Do you read them?..........Do you like gossip columns?
..........Want less?
Sports:End Man on Senior Fence:
..........Do you read the Sports pages..........Do you read it?
Advertising:News:
Features:
..........Are they appealing?..........More?
Suggestions:

THE
PLACE TO EAT
------in------
OAKLAND
------is------
BILLS LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
 Dots Dashes  
by Dot Greiner
The sad but significant story of one of our gals is one which of necessity 
must be told at this time. A Fine Arts student, who must remain name
less, will swear (and thats something she never does) that she saw a black 
insect resembling la cucaracha in a certain reputable spot on campus where 
all the best students go to dine. The discovery of the varmint by Miss 
Nameless was also the occasion of another discovery; suddenly she realized 
that she was suffering from a horrible disease which attacks college girls 
and gold prospectors known as mirages. What she saw definitely could not 
have been an insect, regardless of to what extent it may have resembled 
one. The eating places on campus do not harbor or encourage such obvious 
signs of bad house-keeping, and for this reason, her friends and this re
porter have attempted to convince the unfortunate victim that what she 
saw, she did not see. Many explanations can and have been made to dis
prove the erroneous impression made upon the retina of her eyes. Could 
have been that a large speck of black soot was roaming in the liquid cov
ering her eyeballs. However, this theory does not take into account the 
presence of the small appendages which she contends she saw dangling 
from the mirage. Although it is possible to speculate that she could have 
been slightly under the alcofluence of incohol at the time, it is improba
ble, for the episode took place rather early in the day . . . rather too early 
in the day. When last heard of, this once healthy, now broken girl was re
turning from her physicians office where she had just been pronounced 
normal by several attending doctors having a difficult time living up to 
Hippocratess Creed. There seems to be nothing more to be said for her 
case except that she is now carrying her lunch to school in one hand, and 
a butterfly net in the other. And she was such a nice girl while she lasted!
What the students can and should see is the Modern Language Club 
in action. Its an up-and-coming group (which its members would like to 
see up and coming a little faster), and could be one of the most prominent 
organizations on campus if it were supported more whole-heartedly by both 
potential linguists and people who like to enjoy themselves double-talking. 
It is definitely not a club for students just dripping with culchah . . . 
quite the contrary, for Benny Laguerela was guest speaker at one of the re
cent meetings. Were just kidding, Benny! Hes bigger than I am, isnt he?
Their sponsor, Prof. Carrol is, as everybody knows, one grand teacher 
and friend. Per usual he plays the piano while the members shout in their 
best meeting voices. What is more, Miss Riggs, collector of funny books 
and even funnier students, comes to the meetings to lend a helping hand 
and to fill in the gaps in the students vocabularies. Refreshments are serv
ed at every meeting . . . this is not intended to be a bribe!
"GOOD SHOW!
WE LET THEM HAVE IT
That actually happened. And things 
like that are happening everyday. 
Ever notice in your newspaper how 
often Coke is mentioned? Boys write 
home about it, too. They like the 
taste that sets Coca-Cola apart. 
They welcome that fee/ of refresh
ment. Coca-Cola must remind them 
of home a lot. It reminds you to 
refresh yourself.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Here she isTechs Queen of Hearts
Jane Swearer, Beta Tau Lambda, re
ceives from Gary Lawrence a pastel por
trait of herself just after m.c. Jim Boyce 
had introduced her and her royal attend
ants, Judy Skeehan, Gamma Phi Sigma,
Photo by Fred Rousseau
and Jean Macdonald, Kappa Phi Delta, 
at the Junior Prom. Unfortunately, Judy 
Skeehan was on the right side of the 
platform and does not appear in the 
picture.
Tech Symphony Orchestra Presents Concert
The Department of Music an
nounces a concert by the Student 
symphony orchestra under the di
rection of Dr. J. Vick OBrien in the 
Carnegie Music Hall on Sunday, 
February 21 at 8:15.
The soloists are all seniors who 
are taking part in the performance 
as a requirement for their gradua
tion. They are Katherine Emig, 
oboe; Judith Feldman, piano; and 
Gertrude Wrobleski, piano.
The program is as follows:
Concerto No. 1.....................Handel
for Oboe and Orchestra 
Katherine Emig, Oboe
Concerto No. 4.............Saint-Sans
for Piano and Orchestra 
Judith Feldman, Piano
Concerto No. 1..........Tchaikowsky
for Piano and Orchestra 
Judith Feldman, Piano
Symphony in D Minor........Franck
Tickets for the concert may be se
cured from Miss Lawton in the 
Music Department, Room 153, Arts.
604 Wood St. Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

TH CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1943
Tonights Line Up
Pitt Tech
Forward. .Malarkey ............... Brinn
Forward.. Artman ................. Marck
Center.... Lohmeyr ............... Meyer
Guard... .Swacus............DeBortoli
Guard... .Jones .............. Showman
Hoopsters Record; 
Brinn Leads Scoring
With Basketball Season half over 
the Tartans are still in the red with 
five losses to four wins. The boys 
still have a chance to pull into win
ning territory if they take the ma
jority of the last six games.
In scoring, Dave Brinn leads the 
team with an average of 11.4 points 
per game. Incidentally, Dave holds 
second place in the city in points 
scored per game. He is second only 
to Malarkey of Pitt. George Marck 
trails Dave by only one point, aver
aging 10 points per game. Bob De
Bortoli ranks third in scoring with 
5.8 points per game.
Seasons Record 
Carnegie Tech... .58Waynesburg .. .53
Carnegie Tech.... 50Case ..................52
Carnegie Tech... .38Pitt .....................44
Carnegie Tech.... 33Penn State .... 35 
Carnegie Tech. .. .55St. Vincent ... .34 
Carnegie Tech... .46Westminster .. .38
Carnegie Tech.... 28W. and J.............66
Carnegie Tech.... 49Allegheny ........47
Carnegie Tech.... 30St. Vincent .... 53
Basketball
Continued from fourth column
Tech missed the sparkling play of 
Bob DeBortoli, who is recovering 
from a twisted ankle. Bert Munhall, the Carnegie trainer, has pro
nounced it okay for DeBortoli to 
engage in the battle with Pitt.
Tech Hands Allegheny Its First Loss
Last Tuesday the Skibos, those 
unpredictable ball tossers, whipped 
into the Alligators from Allegheny 
College and delivered them their 
first loss of the year. It was the 
closest game seen here all season, 
with the Gators unorthodox onehanders from all over finding the 
range and the Carnegie cagers 
steady shooting keeping-pace. Capt. 
Dave Brinn led the scoring with 16 
counters, Marck followed with 14, 
and Present guided the losers with 
13.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
Qfi.OM* 
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Moses, Phys Ed 
Prof. for 23 Years
Hes a New Englander thru and 
thru as one can readily tell by the 
B-a-a-ston in his voice. This short, 
dynamic individual hails from 
Massachusetts and is a product of 
Springfield College along with 
Coach Risedorph and Mr. Eyman. 
Mr. Moses graduated in 1916, ob
taining his degree in Physical Ed
ucation and first came to Carnegie 
Tech in the fall of 1920. In 1924, 
he was made an assistant professor 
and in the same year tied the mar
ital knot and now has a daughter 
attending Peabody High School. 
During his early years from 1920 to 
about 1923, he was instrumental in 
the organizing and futuring of in
tramural sports. His personal aim 
and desire since his first year here 
has been to teach students the sport 
they most desire to learn and see 
that they learn it well.
Last summer he went to Chapel 
Hill to get all the dope on the Army 
and Navy physical education pro
gram, and what resulted from that 
meeting, we all know. Who isnt 
famaliar with the aches and pains 
of the obstacle course? Along the 
same line is this battalion swimming 
program that many students are 
participating in. Conducted in the 
pool, students are required to enter 
,the water fully clothed, swimming 
about, learning how to handle them
selves in case of an unexpected 
dunking. Mr. Moses say that we 
have good material for a swim
ming battalion but that our fel
lows have got to learn the techni
ques that go along with it. This 
battalion is intended to be similar 
to the one that the Army has that 
is training men at Cape Cod. To 
give an example of the function of 
this group, these men repair bridges, 
swim out in harbors and blow up 
mines, and perform such dangerous 
missions as that.
During the time between his grad
uation and coming to Tech, Mr. 
Moses joined the Army Medical 
Corps, to be sent overseas for a yearand-a-half with the American Army 
of Occupation in a field hospital 
unit that ended up in Germany. We 
now see that Mr. Moses did his part 
in the last war and is now doing his 
part in this one by building up our 
men to make better soldiers.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Action hot at Saturdays game
Photo by Lew Klein
Tech Is Underdog To Pitt Tonight; 
Win and Lose To Allegheny, Saints
Life begins tonight at eight-thirty 
in the stadium, when the fighting 
Skibos tangle for the second time 
this season with the Panthers from 
down the street at the University of 
Pittsburgh.
Tech and Pitt both will enter the 
game reeling from setbacks; Pitt 
losing to Westminster last Saturday 
by 53 to 48 and Tech having been 
pushed all over their home court 
on the same night by the St. Vincent 
cagers with a lop-sided 53-30 count. 
Although Tech defeated the West
minster Titans 46 to 38 in an 
earlier encounter, this means noth
ing in comparing Pitt and the Ski
bos. Comparison is made in the 
way of ability, fight, and team play, 
with the backing of loyal fans and 
rooters. In these departments, the 
tally sheets give the Panthers a 
slight edge. They have played 
against tougher competition than 
Tech, and have faired better against 
similar foes, with the exception of 
the Westminster games. Pitt is big
ger than Tech and has more replace
ments. From the standpoint of indi
vidual and team play, Tech is on 
the right side, in our opinion. When
our boys are on they cant be 
stopped and will work miracles. 
When theyre cold, like they were 
against St. Vincent on Saturday, 
they give a poor showing.
Dr. Carlson, the Panther coach, 
when asked for a prediction, retort
ed with a sharp, It looks like snow. 
Ill use my same lineup; and if 
Maxie will take his shoes off with 
his coat, Ill sit on the scoreboard 
and keep time. Coach Maxie Hannums statement was brief and pert. 
My boys are gunning for this one 
anw if they fight all the way, they 
have a good chance of coming 
through on the right side.
Saints Smash Skibos by 23 Points 
St. Vincent Bearcats came to 
storm laird Skibo last Saturday and 
romped off with a lop-sided 53-30 
score. Marck dropped . the first 
bucket through the nets four sec
onds after the opening whistle toot
ed. The Saints jumped to a 7-4 
advantage later in the period, and 
were never headed as the contest 
went on. The Bearcats were led by 
Philips and Whalen with 15 and 14 
points each, respectively. Philips 
was by far the outstanding player on 
the hardwoods with his remarkable 
push shots from the pivot. Techs 
only outstanding men, if we can say 
that, were Tommy Culbertson and 
George Marck who had seven points 
each.
Continued in Column 1 this page
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
CAMELS " 
ARE EASY ON MY 
THROAT_ AND 
SWELL TO TASTE. 
THEY SUIT ME 
iTO A'f1'
Citcom., PiKAs Duel 
For Volleyball Title
As the second week of volleyball 
got under way, the Citcom team was 
forging ahead intent on taking their 
league championship. The com
muters handed the Welch Hall 
boys a terrific defeat, downing them 
21-0, 21-1. In League Two, the 
PiKAS and Kappa Sigs have begun 
to battle for their league champion
ship.
The PiKAs are hoping to give a 
repeat performance and cop the 
championship. From all indications, 
they have an excellent chance of ac
complishing this feat. In last weeks 
games they decisively downed the 
Phi Kaps 21-3, 21-7. Later in the 
week, the PiKAs took two games 
straight and beat the ATOs 21-17,
21-5. The Clyde Street boys, who 
have been definitely off in intra
mural competition, are out to take 
the volleyball league. With a clean 
slate, all wins and no losses, the 
Kappa Sigs have an excellent 
chance. The Delts played a close 
one in which they defeated the Beta 
Sigs by three points in the third 
game. Citcom B took Scobell; the 
Betas downed the Tau Delts; and 
Phi Kaps defeated the TXs.
Citcom A, Delts, Lead Way 
In Bowling; McGill Threatens
Gunning for League II champion
ship, and preparing for their clash 
next week, Citcom A and Delta Tau 
Delta won their respective matches 
this past Saturday at the University 
Bowling Allies in spectacular fash
ion.
All high scoring honors were di
vided between these two teams; 
however, Bill Gray, a dorm man 
from McGill snuck in to roll the 
highest one game score, 203. Citcom 
A led by the Professional bowl
ing of Frank Hainan and George 
Prokopik knocked down the 
woods for 715 pins a game, totalling 
2,145. Giving everybody on the 
squad a chance, the boys average 146 
pins per man. Rolling 779 in one 
game they topped last weeks best 
score, rolled by Beta Theta Pi, by 93 
pins. Prokopik, averaging 168, bowl
ed a 201 game. All these feats, col
lected into one, produced a one sid
ed victory over the Theta Xi boys.
On the other hand, the Delts toy
ed with the Sigma Nu boys bring
ing home 2020 pins to average 674 
a game. They produced the highest 
individual scorer in Ed Mehl who 
bowled 169, 181, and 175, averaging 
175 per game.______________
SAYS 
ACE TEST 
PILOT
SKIBO SPORTLIGHT
Panthers Tonight
By Don French, Sports EditorTonights Game
Tonight our unpredictable Tartans will once again match their skill 
against the favored Panthers. The odds are against us, but only slightly. 
Thus every bit of aid we can give the team will help, and if we can turn 
out at the Stadium en masse it is sure to help the team and might even be 
the deciding factor.
Revived Cheerleaders
It seems our editorial on cheerleading last week produced much better 
results than anticipated. Not only did the cheerleaders turn out for last 
Tuesdays and Fridays games, but it seems definite that Tech will be favor
ed with girl cheerleaders in the home games coming up. Responsible for 
finding the coeds and obtaining Mr. Overends and Mrs. Yons approval is 
Asher Etkes, who incidently has had much to do with reviving the student 
interest in cheering.
A1 Minetti has been selected to pick the girl cheerleaders, so upon his 
choice the future of girl cheerleading at Tech depends. So far, however, 
it seems likely that Pat McCullough, Eleanor Wilson, LaVetta Hammond, 
Ann Stansbury, and Marcia Wachter will be chosen.
Army vs. Intercollegiate Sports
The Army seems to have shattered the Techies pipe dreams of future 
intercollegiate competition making use of the men stationed on campus. An 
order issued recently prevents the Army proteges from participating in 
any varsity competition. Colonel Herman Beukema, Director of the Army 
Specialized Training Corps, indicated that the soldier athletes wouldnt 
have time to participate in varsity competition. This seems to indicate that 
our future teams will be composed of those under the draft age, the de
ferred, and the 4-Fs.
- where cigarettes are 
judged
The mT-ZONE'Taste and Throat 
is the proving ground for cigarettes. 
Only your taste and throat can de
cide which cigarette tastes best to 
you...and how it affects your throat. 
For your taste and throat are abso
lutely individual to you.
Based on the experience of mil
lions of smokers, we believe Camels 
wi 11 suit your "T-ZONE' to a "T." 
Prove it for yourself!
B. J. B.ynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem. North Carolina

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1943STtvc Carnegie ]plaid
Rembember Thistle Hall Sat., Feb. 20, 
Annual Washington Birthday Dance
A final reminder is in order! Fel
lowsyou better get your dates 
now if you expect to make the 
Washington Birthday Dance this 
Saturday. Who do you think you 
areCassanova? Even when men 
are scarce you cant wait til the last 
minute to date the belles.
This Saturday Jimmy Thompson 
is sure to be inspired and his best 
music will be forthcoming! For who 
shouldnt be inspired at an Anni
versary Dance in honor of George 
Washington. Speaking of Wash
ington it seems only fair to is
sue a warningDont be surprised 
if a ghost appears at the dance! Su
perman promised us he would reach 
back into the dim past and bring 
forth a most unusual guest.
In order to keep up tradition it is 
vitally necessary that Thistle Hall 
be fitted up with the most patriotic 
and decorative style; therefore, all 
students desiring insignia awards 
come out on Saturday afternoon at 
one oclock. The work isnt tough 
and the wages (points) are grati
fying. Besides decorating for the 
dance, one may work at the dance 
or after the dance on Sunday after
noon (two P. M.)
Any student at Carnegie Tech and 
any of their friends will be made 
welcome. Also any service men 
may enter the hall without having 
to dig for the $1.10 which we civil
ians must pay.
The success of the Valentine 
Party at the Carnegie Union on 
Saturday, February 6th has left the 
social committee with such optimis
tic hope that the dance is bound to 
be successful also. At any rate Jim
my Thompsons ten piece band is 
sure to please and to be an added 
incentive to those who may be in 
doubt as to whether or not they 
will have a good time.
PeJtAitMUilitiel
Initiating a new column in this 
issue to acquaint you with fellow 
studentswhile their faces are fa
miliar we figured you might like to 
know a little of their innerselves.
Katherine Savage is the first to be 
honored thus . . . This petite, dark
haired young lady is a voice student 
and her keenest interestyou guess
ed itgood speech . . . She has 
studied under Dr. Raubitcheck and 
Dr. Mulgrave in New York, and is 
now under Mrs. Skinners able 
guidance here on the campus . . . 
Fills her days with a busy life in 
an office downtown and her spare 
time teaching Voice and Speech in 
various private schools . . . Kathy 
is a North Side resident ... is one 
of the most active members of the 
Catholic Theatre Guild and never 
misses an opportunity to boost it 
. , . While she is one of the most 
broad-minded gals we know and 
never passes up an opportunity to 
lend a helping handbe careful 
she has a good sales talk and shell 
sell you a Guild subscription in 
nothing flat.
Engineers Banquet?
A Good Old Smoker? 
Which Will It Be?
The officers and social committee 
of the Evening College of Engineer
ing are hard at work trying to de
cide whether to go through with 
plans for the Twenty-Eighth Annual 
Engineers Banquet or to replace it 
with another type of affair, such as 
a smoker.
Held each year since its incep
tion into the Evening Social Cal
endar, the banquet has proven to 
be one of the most popular and suc
cessful affairs, but the war is bear
ing down on us in all directions, not 
only in priorities, but also in a ter
rific decrease in enrollment. How
ever, we all need release, or call it 
morale building if you care to, and 
can and should find it in such an af
fair.
The contention to date seems to be 
that a banquet style get-together is 
out of the question since hotels will 
not guarantee a suitable menu, due 
to rationing; but a smoker can be 
put on rather handily. There are 
many advantages to a smoker, 
namelychoice of lunch, better en
tertainment, a more friendly atmo
sphere, a lower admsision fee, etc.
The committee in charge would 
welcome a response from the stu
dents on this matter. In all proba
bility there will be many good ideas 
in regard to this matter so come on 
all of you and pitch in with your 
ideas so this traditional get-together 
will continue to exist, and not just 
expire like the last flutter of light 
from the bottom end of a candle 
that which we engineers have burnt 
from both ends many a night. Please 
be prompt and turn in whatever 
ideas you may have in mind to the 
Evening Student Council, Box 353, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
First Council Party 
Proves Huge Success
Saturday, February 6th, was the 
night of the gala Night School Party 
held at the Carnegie Union. Judg
ing by the smiling faces and laugh
ing voices the party was a complete 
success.
The dancing in the main hall and 
large music room was enjoyed by 
swing and sweet music addicts 
alike. The orchestras running the 
list from Basie and Boogie Woogie 
to Munroe and melodious melodies.
For the amateur gamblers, the 
first floor game room was the big 
attraction. Here were run tlfe rou
lette games presided over by Con 
men Marcinizym and Rymar. Each 
prospective player was handed a 
sum of stage money and allowed to 
shoot the works as he saw fit. 
Many were the wails and moans as 
the players saw their fortunes slow
ly (and not so slowly) dwindle and 
disappear. Everyone, of course, did 
not lose it all as one man walked 
off with the grand prize of $1.00 and
Geo. Riffle Named 
Ind. Vice President
George Riffle, Industries new 
Vice-President, is an amiable and 
interesting addition to Student 
Councils membership. He is also 
Assistant Social Chairman.
Prior to his graduation from 
North Braddock High School in 
1913, he played football on the 
school team and the years have not 
lessened his enthusiasm for this 
sport ashe is still an avid fan. He 
is also active in such sports as tenGEORGE RIFFLE
Industries vice-president
nis, swimming and ice-skating and 
is greatly interested in semi-classical music.
He attended Westinghouse Tech
nical Night School before register
ing at Tech, and this is his third se
mester in the Printing Department 
in the College of Industries.
He worked for a short time, after 
his graduation from High School, 
for the Carnegie Illinois Steel Com
pany and then, for four years con
ducted an electrical business of his 
own in Braddock. He is now em
ployed by the Pittsburgh Equita
ble Meter Company, in the meter 
department, but hopes eventually 
to have a self-sufficient business in 
printing, and also to obtain his de
gree in that field.
there were also second and third 
prizes of 75c and 50c.
The ping pong fanatics took over 
the basement playrooms and after a 
few polite games the boys and girls 
started in to play in earnest. Mixed 
doubles being the order of the even
ing, the shouts of the male players 
and the squeals of the girls often 
penetrated to the floor above. Many 
were the persons who went down to 
investigate and stayed to enjoy a 
game or two.
Another of the big features of the 
evening was the grand march, one 
that went on all evening, starting 
from anywhere in the building and 
ending in the dining room where 
the home concoted punch, cookies 
and other goodies met with a great 
reception.
After the awarding of the door 
prize everyone went home feeling 
that the evening had been a decid
ed success.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening scnool Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
EditorNancy E. Lewis News Editor 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Engineering Joseph M. Rymar 
Associate Editor of Industries Mary Jo Weber 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts Marion Frost 
StaffS. W. MarcinizynD. Pettigrew, Jr. Pearl Pettola Robert Poznanski
We are wondering how Bob McFaters is making out with his long 
distance courting (in Finleyville to 
be exact) since gas rationing has 
been in effect. Remember, Bob, 
faint heart never won fair lady 
. . . Its good to see Dick Persohns 
smiling face again after his having 
missed classes for about a week due 
to illness . . . Evelyn Rymer (Mrs. 
Joe Rymer) finally won a prize at 
roulette after doggedly playing the 
game all evening . . . Peggy
(Black-out) Reed was very lucky to 
win the door prize at the party on 
February 6. Peggy almost left a 
minute too soon! . . . George 
Roman finally broke down and came 
to one of the school socials. Reports 
say he had a swell time and will 
be out again on the 20th . . . 
Everyone who attended the party 
at the Union on the 6th had a won
derful time. Shirley Stein was no 
exception, and besides she won 
some Defense Stamps. That is one 
way of having a profitable evening! 
. . . Carnegie Tech recently was 
very much honored when two of its 
Arts Students received awards in 
the Associated Artists Exhibit. 
Louise Pershing won Second Prize, 
and Favorable Mention was award
ed to Margaret Jensen. * Congratu
lations on the nice work girls . . . 
If Bob Wilhelm should call me for 
a date for the dance I couldnt re
fuse cause hes an expert in the art 
of dancing and oh! Boy! . . . Joe 
Kline had such a super time at the 
party last week. He is definitely a 
ping pong champ or chump 
ask the judges. The party was his 
last social hereabouts as Uncle Sam 
says his time is up on the 16th. Good 
huntin Joe . . . Bob Lennigan sent 
the Editor a very nice letter as 
thank you for See Here, Private 
Hargrove which all the Plaid 
workers sent him. The book must 
have put him in the mood, for he is 
off to the wars next week . . . My! 
My! The abundance of eligible 
bachelors is certainly dwindling.
Social Comm. Meets 
Wednesday from 10 PM 
In Carnegie Union. 
Everybody Welcome!
Albert Flanders Mary Hensler John Hundertmark Edward A. Macha
