wge.sco,
 ^BKsex-breast, .ili^ox.airassi^^k ,' j-ij's, alt.sex.erotica, alt-sex.erotidSgnk ;.',;lbitionism. all.scx.cxlropians, AiWalt.sox.fctish, alt.sex.fetisn.amgfl^aiFHk SKall.sex.fclish.fa, alt^ex-fetisMgBron, altJSfl Mf.scx.felish.hair, alt.scx.fetisMMrfitaU altsH Kaakko, alt.sex.felish.robol^MKx.felish.sporg Sx.felisli.slartrek, alt-sexJ^Ttlckling, aU.sed }reznor,all.scx.fclish.\^KWt.sgx.foiish.waipp! Jx.first-time, ali.sox-fiS^ ait.sex.hello-kitly, ^ en, alt.sex.jp, alt-gffigpigazines, alt.sex.masturl m.motss, 'ilt se;-fmpvies, alt.sex.necrophilia,/; Btsex.pedo^m^alt.scx.plushies, alt.sex.nffl 'W-'ralt.sex.services, alUex.su|S^ri^1ffi5Srex-stories d' a>t sex.slrip-duf >V -MtjSfi^toupec, alt.sex.trans, alt.sexjgp alt.sex.wanted, alt.sex.wigSr 'W^ex.zoophilia, all.binad^^^r
Inside
Calendar.............
Ciassfied............
Com*...............Diversions...........
features.............ftjrum..........
Sports................
VOtPopu...........
Sports
Sport sFeauDD ieCp 
iupt cu tnuucuIc h 
tpp seip v
Features
fmsFukp cnp 
Catcpk:uIt tcpeC 
cIoopFt h tpp seip 19
Tartan Photographer
Dossier
fmsFukp cnp F:cpkeka 
eo2 2pt:io kei 
Io2pk cnp tpe
Sports Fea uDDrs eTE TARTN
iCcnsIhs vsoopn fnhmscDhk:1D 9kr2snk ,sdD-C-sc 9hnls Re.yg ,pmstbsc ReeW
,Fpdc:uo kptIFct eoouIodp2
y y Lastwekaeh
\rtan Staffwriter
Last week was the Student 
enate election. Students ran for 
ben seats in the Senate to repre|nt the various colleges on camElections were held from 
jesday to Thursday.
ECandidates run for Senate for 
ious reasons. Lynn Babyak, a 
ndidate for MCS, said, I just 
Ranted to be more aware of the 
ipus and the campus activies that were going on. That was 
fey motivation in running for Sen
ate. "There was TJ Sharpe, a canIjdate for H&SS, who ran for a 
ompletely different reason. I 
W that a lot of seats were being 
acated and no one was filling 
hem. I figured if no one else was 
oing to do it, hell, I might as 
jell. Id do just as well as they 
lyould.
t Doug Hudson, a write-in candiate for H&SS, said, Originally, 
f had my petition signed with 29 
hames, but it turned out that six 
if those people had IM as their 
iome colleges and were therefore 
valid. This made my petition 
nvalid, and I had to go for the 
write-in campaign.
% 
j
Jim snyaer/rartan Photo Editor 
Students went to the front of Doherty Hall to vote in this years Student 
Senate Elections. Participation varied throughout the day.
Some candidates expressed 
their interest in reforming the 
policy set up in the Funding and 
Recognitions Committee. Anat 
Gal-or, candidate for CIT, re
marked, Id like to see the Fund
ing and Recognitions Committee 
come up with a concrete set of 
rules that would make the distri
bution a little more fair and equal.
It seems that their policy fluctu
ates every year, and most organi
zations never seem to know ex
actly what to expect from year to 
year. By revising the policy or 
instilling a new one, we can give 
them some kind of guidelines to 
follow. Most of the new senators, 
have not yet come up with any 
Please see, SENATE page 5
CMU censors bboards
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan News Editor
Starting on Tuesday, 
Carnegie Mellon University 
will block on-campus computer 
users from gaining access to 
certain computer bulletin 
boards that contain materials 
that are of a sexual nature in 
accordance with Pennsylvania 
Law.
The major reason for the 
change in policy is the Pennsyl
vania law dealing with obscen
ity. Our official policy is to 
obey the law, said Bill Arms, 
the Vice President for Comput
ing Services. The law states, 
No person, knowing the ob
scene character of the materi
als or performances involved, 
shall display or cause or permit 
the display of any explicit 
sexual material. Arms said he 
was unaware that the bboard 
system was as graphic as it was 
until he went through it him
self. There are bboards out 
there that are used to display 
sexually explicit material.
Declan McCullagh, Student
Government President, doesnt 
agree, No university has ever 
been in trouble or embarrassed 
carrying the text [bboards]. 
Arms brought the issue to the 
Academic Council on Wednesday 
of last week. The policy was ap
proved and will be implemented 
on Tuesday. We acted quickly
because we felt we were legally 
liable, said Erwin Steinberg, the 
Vice Provost for Education. 
Steinberg said this discussion of 
the issue would put the Univer
sity at risk, since any discussion 
would expose the University as 
knowingly breaking the law.
Computing Services will be 
eliminating the alt.sex groups,
rec.arts.erotica, as well as the 
alt.binaries.pictures.erotica 
groups. There are 81 bboards 
that will be eliminated, includ
ing bboards in sublevels. The 
change will not affect all 
bboards that are about sex. Re
sponsible discussions of sexual 
matters is very important, 
Arms said.
A number of students were 
upset over the decision. [The 
administration has] shown no 
willingness to listen to students 
and change the policy, said 
McCullagh, The administra
tion needs to let the commu
nity decide the policy. Many 
were concerned about not be
ing consulted, I didnt feel it 
necessary to discuss this with 
the community because there 
is no need to discuss whether 
or not we should obey the law, 
Arms said. Even so, students 
have started a bboard express
ing their feelings about the 
change.
Among some of the argu
ments posted on the bboard 
were, CMU can not censor 
Please see, SEX page 3
eo2:2ecptr sFecDukCtus:o:uot 
skul:2p :ot:inc cu Rcecp pFpdc:uot
iy DAWN WALLHAUSEN
'artan Staffwriter
OnTuesday, voters will go to the booths 
:o elect a Governor, Senator, and 
epResentatives. It is important in all 
elections to be informed of the candi
dates and what they stand for. 
Pennsylvanias candidates for Senate 
ire Democratic incumbent Harris 
Vofiford, and Republican Rick Santorum. 
According to Woffords campaign of
fice, the main issues which concern the 
andidate are preventative health care, 
ducation, community service, the abilty of both parties in Senate to work 
ogether, and a limit to defense spend
ing.
Woffords health are plan includes 
avernment support for childrens im
munizations and other preventative 
iealth care measures for the poor.
I While in office, he gained support from 
tepublicans and Democrats alike for
his National Service Corps bill. The Ser
vice Corps encourages students in pub
lic schools to get involved in community 
service and provides educational awards 
for those who do. Wofford says that he 
hopes this type of bipartisan backing of 
valuable projects will continue, should 
he be re-elected.
Opponent Rick Santorum bases his 
platform on welfare reform and what he 
calls cleaning up Congress, according 
to his campaign literature.
Santorums welfare reform legislation, 
which he introduced to Congress while 
acting as the House Republican in charge 
of welfare reform, gives welfare recipi
ents two years over their lifetime during 
which they may receive job training, 
education, child care, and job search 
assistance in order to prepare them for 
entering the workforce. Santorum says 
that, following those two years, a failure 
to find gainful employment will result in 
a loss of benefits. The legislation pro
poses an end to benefits for illegal immi
grants.
As a Representative, Santorum facili
tated the closing of the House Bank. The 
candidates ideas for further cutting cor
ruption include limiting terms to six 
two-year periods, ensuring that laws 
passed by Congress are applied to Con
gress and limiting frank mail funds. 
Frank mail funds pay for many of the 
mailings sent out by Representatives to 
prospective voters.
Running for Representative of the 18th 
Congressional district are Democrat 
Mike Doyle and Republican John 
McCarty.
In his campaign literature, Doyle said 
Dealing with crime and violence in our 
neighborhoods and schools and expand
ing the regions job base will be among 
the many issues I will focus on. As far as 
expanding the job base, Doyle is particu
larly supportive of (and endorsed by) 
Please see, ELECTION page 5
uld do If elected.
.uotckIdc:uo :o C:22Fp uD deCsIt duoc:oIpt et tdnp2IFp2
Construction continues to move along on the new University Center. With the help 
University Center wil open on its scheduled date, Fall 96.
of a generous donor,
By JASON HEINLEEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Construction of the new Uni
versity Center is on schedule, 
according to Tom Murphy, asso
ciate director of Construction. 
The weather man has been very 
cooperative, said Murphy, which 
allowed workers from the Turner 
Construction company to stay on 
schedule for the project.
There are always little 
glitches, said Dr. Edward Schatz, 
senior vice-president in the Of
fice for Business Affairs. There 
are so many different people in
volved in this thing, that some
times coordination can be a little 
tough. But, generally, we are not 
behind.
Responding to rumors that a 
major financial donor to the stu
dent center had withdrawn sup
port, Dr. Schatz said, As far as I 
know, there is no truth to that. I 
spoke with that donor in late 
August... and at that particular 
point it was still his intention to 
make the contribution which he 
said he would make. Something 
could have happend since that 
time, but I am sure that I would
have heard about it, and I have 
heard nothing.
We had some problems with 
the obstructions over by Marga
ret Morrison [Carnegie Hall], 
said Murphy, [but it] didnt hold 
up the main part of the construc
tion. The power lines that lead 
from Margaret Morrison to the 
garage had to be shored up with 
an I beam while work pro
gressed in that area. We ex
tended the manhole over the ex
isting 78-inch sewer [by Marga
ret Morrison and the new dorm], 
said Murphy. [It will] probably 
be about another three or four 
weeks, and then well open up the 
old sidewalk [next to the new 
dorm].
You always have to be careful 
when you dig into dirt, said 
Schatz, but so far we havent 
come up with any major surprises. 
We had to be very careful not to 
puncture some city sewers that 
run deep below the building. We 
managed to do that sucessfully.
The concrete [outer wall] is 
coming along fine, said Murphy. 
About 50 percent of the concrete 
outer wall is complete. Were 
pouring a couple of times a week
now. The square concrete out
line being formed next to the ten
nis courts is where the diving 
pool will be located. Heading to
wards the Cut, well be forming 
the walls of the lap pool, said 
Murphy.
Along the Cut will be the three 
story high part [of the student 
center], said Murphy. It will 
have most of the student organi
zations and the bookstore. Over 
by the Cut side near Forbes, you 
notice some curved walls and a 
big mound of dirt. Thats where 
the first floor auditorium will be. 
The curved wall will actually be 
the back of that auditorium, said 
Murphy. The objective is to pour 
all of the exterior walls by early 
December.
According to Schatz, they hope 
to begin erecting the steel in the 
first or second week of December. 
This seems to be on schedule. 
Things will go pretty fast. Once 
the steel is there, things will slow 
down again as we put the walls 
up. Thats the kind of project it 
is.
Construction is on schedule and 
the University Center is still 
planned to open in August of96.
&

---------------------------------------------------

wNs CckCn  iCcnsIhs vsoopn  g ,pmstbsc ReeW
yg9R bWRy 9w
majority in Sena>
WASHINGTON, DC, November 4, 
(DJ)  The GOPs dream, unseating 
the last of the big-time liberals, Demo
cratic Sen. Edward Kennedy in Mas
sachusetts, is more and more 
pbantasmagorical. Mr. Kennedy leads 
Mitt Romney, his Republican chal
lenger, by 15 points in the most recent 
Boston Herald-WCVB-TV poll.
Tennessee has two Senate races this 
year. The second one, with incumbent 
Democrat Jim Sasser, a three-term 
incumbent and would-be party leader 
in the Senate, battling Republican Wil
liam Frist, a wealthy Nashville sur
geon, is another toss up.
Republicans also see opportunities: 
to defeat incumbent Democrats Frank 
Lautenberg inNew Jersey and Harris 
Wofford in Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Lautenberg leads Republican Chuck 
Haytai an in thepolls. Newspaper polls 
indicate Mr. Wofford is in serious 
trouble in his race against Republican 
Rick Santorum, but private polls show 
justthe oppositethat Mr. Santorum 
is fading as Democrats press charges 
that he would cut Social Security ben
efits. The Santorum campaign calls 
the charges outright lies.
Mostvoting Americans cant remem
ber when the Republicans last controlled the House of Representatives. 
But you could look it up: it was 1954, 
some 40 years ago, and the speaker 
was Joseph Martin of Massachusetts.
To make. Rep. Newt Gingrich of Geor
gia the partys first speaker since Joe 
Martin (presuming hes reelected on 
Tuesday), Republicans-need a net gain 
of 40 seats. The line-up going into the 
election is 256 Democrats, 178 Repub
licans and Bernard Sanders, from 
Vermont, an independent.
Once again, open seats are where 
most of the action is taking place. 
There.are 52 of them, of which 31 are 
now held by Democrats. Many of these 
seat, especially the ones in the South, 
where the GOP finally is breaking 
through, are vulnerable, and Republi
cans hope to win most of them. But 
even if they do, they will still need to 
unseat several incumbent Democrats 
to reach the magic 40 marker.
' The GOPs prize target is the Demo
cratic opedkc
Foley of Wshington. Though ham
mered by term-limit proponents and 
the National Rifle Association, Mr. 
Foley, with the help of abairage ofTV 
commercials, has caught up with his 
opponent, Republican George 
Netherautt, in the polls. This is aninyour-face opportunity for the Republi
cans, who have a real shot at winning 
in big industriai and working-class 
states that shouldbepartofthe Demo
crats base. They already hold Califor
nia, Michigan, Ohio and Illinois, and 
chances are good they'll still be hold
ing those states on Nov. 9.
.FpeoIs duCCpodpt 
eDcpk e:kF:op 2:tetcpk
ROSELAWN, In, November 2, (DJ) 
Teams today began the gruesome, me
ticulous task of removing the shattered 
remains of the victims of Flight 4184 
from the muddy field littered with the 
planes wreckage. The process of remov
ing pieces of bodies from the scene of the 
crash of the American Eagle flight will 
take seven to 10 days, said Newton 
County Coroner Dr. David Dennis.
All 68 people on board the plane were 
killed Monday when the plane slammed 
into a muddy bean field during a driving 
rainstorm.
Authorities have said the severity of 
the crash made immediate identifica
tion of the victims impossible.
Technicians might eventually be able 
to identify 80 percent of the people on 
the plane, said FBI agent Wayne Alford,
special agent in charge of the FBI in 
Indiana. Every single body part, piece of 
cloth and item of jewelry would be care
fully tagged and examined, he said. 
Flight 4184, en route from Indianapolis 
to Chicago, had flown in a holding pat
tern for 32 minutes, then descended to8,000 feet when air traffic controllers 
asked it to hold for 10 more minutes. 
Thank you, the pilot acknowledged. 
Those were the last words controllers 
heard from the crew.
Three minutes later, the plane disap
peared from radar screens. Two in-flight 
weather advisories had been issued for 
turbulence and icing, said National 
Transportation Safety Board chairman 
Jim Hall. Investigators were checking 
the planes cockpit voice recorder to see 
if the pilot received the warnings.
1 1 III
Former president has Alzheimers
LOS ANGELES, November 5, - 
Former President Ronald Reagan has 
been diagnosed with Alzheimers dis
ease. The brain disorder is incurable 
and causes senile dementia. According 
to doctors, Reagan is in the early stages 
of the disease. He is 83 years old.
Reagan disclosed to the American 
public on Saturday that he had the 
disease. His purpose was to bring public 
attention to a disease that affects mostly 
elderly people.
According to the former presidents 
doctors, he was diagnosed with the dis
ease after a number of examinations.
At this time, Reagan is not in the 
hospital and is feeling fine.Plan may deport illegal aliens
LOS ANGELES, November 4, (DJ)  
The political debate over Californias 
proposal to bar illegal immigrants from 
schools and other government services 
is reaching a tense pitch as Tuesdays 
vote approaches. But win or lose, Propo
sition 187 has revived an age-old ques
tion whether immigration brings with it 
economic gains or losses.
Backers of the measure contend that 
the states 125,000 annual illegal arriv
als impose staggering burdens on a gov
ernment balance sheet already weak
ened by a long recession.
Opponents contend those figures are 
overstated and point to historic and in
tangible benefits from immigrants. But 
beyond those arguments, economists 
suggest that Californias prolonged wave 
of illegal immigration may be badly out 
of step with the states future economic 
needs for more skilled workers.
In the meantime, the ballot initiative 
is reaching beyond Californias borders. 
It sends a dreadful message about the 
state to the international community, 
says Stephen Levy, director of the Cen
ter for Continuing Study of the Califor
nia Economy, a Palo Alto, Ca., think 
tank.
Proposition 187 has sparked angry 
responses from Mexico, chilling rela
tions early in the era of the North Ameri
can Free Trade Agreement.
Washington Governor Mike Lowry, 
hearing about the anger toward Califor
nia during a visit to Mexico, swiftly 
suggested that Mexicans use ports in 
Washington instead of California for 
shipments headed to Asia. If Califor
nians dont understand what the United 
States stands for, Lowry said, were 
ready and willing to accept Mexican 
business.
Rather than a product of misunder
standing, analysts say Californians con
sideration of Proposition 187 reflects an 
emotional response to complicated eco
nomic forces now confronting the state.
The magnitude of taxpayer outlays is 
eye-catching. Proposition supporters say 
California will spend an estimated $4.3 
billion on illegal residents this year, 
outlays only partly offset by $780 mil
lion in state taxes collected from those 
residents.
Educating young illegal residents and 
American-born children of illegal immi
grants alone will cost an estimated $2 
billion. Nearly $500 million more is 
needed to imprison the states 18,000 
felons who are illegal residents.
Our border is a sieve that makes a 
mockery of our laws ... and places an 
intolerable burden on state taxpayers, 
wrote Californias Republican Governor 
Pete Wilson, whos running for re-elec
tion, in an open letter to President 
Clinton. But critics of Proposition 187 
say all this makes better politics than 
accounting.Mother admits to childs murder
UNION, S.C., November 4, As Su
san Smith was being led to court the 
townspeople booed. Smith is charged 
with killing her two sons by pushing her 
car into a lake with her boys in their 
safety seats. She originally said that her 
sons were kidnapped as a result of a 
carjacking.
The autopsy was completed by Sheriff 
Howard Wells on Michael, 3, and Alex, 
14 months and would not directly con
firm the results.
The sheriff confirmed the fact that the 
two boys were alive when the car went 
into the lake. Smith, who was not present 
in the courtroom and had her lawyer 
speak for her, declined the right to a bail 
hearing.President asks for human rights
JAKARTA, Indonesia, November 4, 
(D J)  President Clinton will raise the 
question of human rights violations 
when he holds bilateral talks with 
Indonesias President Suharto follow
ing the summit of the Asia-Pacific Eco
nomic Cooperation forum on November
16 in Jakarta, Assistant Secretary of 
State Winston Lord said.
Ambassador Lord made the statement 
in a televised interview from Washing
ton with reporters and academics from 
Jakarta, Tokyo, Seoul, Bangkok and 
Manila on a Worldnet Dialogue called 
Preview of President Clintons Trip to 
Asia and APEC.
We will discuss the human rights
problem, workers rights problem, re
cent closing of some magazine and East n 
Timor issues, Lord said. However, Lord" 
said the U.S. and Indonesia have a posfr' 
tive relationship in terms of peacekeep-: 
ing, trade and economic cooperation. :z
Lords statement followed reports frorfi 
the London-based Amnesty Internal 
tional that Indonesian authorities havearrested and mistreated dissenters as 
part of a campaign to clean up Jakarta' 
before the APEC summit on November' 
15. Indonesia denied the report, saying 
Amnesty International is waging an antiIndonesia campaign before a major in-!: 
temational conference in the country.. .'Economy shows signs of growth i
WASHINGTON, DC, November 4,, 
(DJ)  President Clinton said the de.i 
cline in the unemployment rate to 5.8 
percent shows the economy is moving 
in the right direction and that votersdont need to turn back by voting 
against his party in mid-term elections.
Clinton made the remarks during ,a! 
campaign swing through Minnesota.
His speech was monitored in Wasta; 
ington.
Weve got unemployment going downf 
jobs being created; the deficit going downfor the first time in a very long time, f 
Clinton told a rally for Rep. James 
Oberstar, D-Minn.
Our Republican opponents say theyre 
against government ... but when they 
were in government, government got 
bigger, said Clinton.
We have reduced the size of the gov
ernment ... and given the money back to | 
the community to make the streets safer, 
Clinton said.
Clinton said a Republican plan to cut 
taxes, boost defense spending and bal
ance the budget would cost taxpayers $1 
billion in new taxes or benefits cuts. 
And, once again, Clinton attempted to 
portray Republicans as the party aim
ing to cut Social Security benefits,
The Republicans say they didnt say I 
they would cut Social Security, but thei, 
didnt say they wouldnt, either, said" 
Clinton.
On the jobs figures, Clinton noted the! 
unemployment rate of 5.8 percent in 
October was the lowest in four years and . 
that five million new jobs have been 
created during his 21 months in office. 
He said the U.S. has created more highwage jobs this year than were created in 
the previous five years.
News Briefs Courtesy 
Dow Jones News Service
Briefs Compiled by 
Edward Hayes
S F3 E C II A LS
One Large Pizza with 
One Topping$5.98
NN0 Fukbpt AlpoIp 
P:cctbIkinPA N52Nv
Two Whole Italian Hoagies 
with One Liter of Soda $8.78
Two Whole Steak Hoagies 
with One Liter of Soda $9.76
Steak and Cheese Wedgie
with French Fries and
One Liter of Pepsi $7.75
Two 1 /4 Pound Bacon 
Cheeseburgers, Large Fries 
with Cheese, and One Liter 
of Soda $7.75
One Large Pizza with One 
Whole Italian Hoagie $9.49
One Gyro Wedgie, Large 
Fries with Cheese, an One 
Liter of Pepsi $7.75
Two Medium Pizzas with 
One Topping Each$10.51
261-5115261-4075
PRICES DO NOT INCLUDE TAX.

---------------------------------------------------

Ns CckCn  iCcnsIhs vsoopn  g ,pmstbsc ReeW3
.ekopi:p SpFFuo dpotukt tpmIeFFa pmsF:d:cr bbuek2t
sex, frm Pa1mything because they are not the govirnment, wrote Krysztof Kamieniecki. 
Others said that CMU displayed a double 
standard. I find it slightly ironic that 
jj'e University is so concerned with the 
bscenity laws which are maybe being 
jroken by a few students, while they do 
not give a fetid dingos kidney about the 
inderage drinking laws which are being 
violated by over half of the students on 
campus, complained Jacob McGuire.
Friday night on WRCTs 
Curmudgeons Comer student and fac
ulty on both sides were given the oppor
tunity to voice their opinions. I have to 
xpress my outrage that what is supjosed to be a free academic environment 
Srbeing restricted in this manner, said 
0Ie caller. Parties not directly related to 
the situation also spoke. Adults at CMU 
are being denied access to things that 
are obscene, said Barry Steinhart, As
sociate Director of the ACLU in New 
York, This is a very overbroad decision 
;hat has been made by the University.
Mark Rotenberg, a member of the Elec
tronic Privacy Information Center, was 
oncemed about the position the Uni
versity took. I have this concern that if 
yU begin by imposing a restriction on 
certain types of information, it makes it 
easier to impose restrictions on other 
ypes of information, he said. We have 
rsnerally opposed restrictions on 
Internet access, even restrictions that 
seem to have some supported law. Rep
resenting the University was Steinberg, 
who fielded questions from callers conceming the issue. One caller asked about 
other venues that provide access to por
nography, such as magazines, books etc. 
Steinberg said, Our lawyers tell us that 
at the moment were liable. If it turns 
out were liable for other things, well 
have to take a look at other things.
A big factor in Computing Services 
becoming aware of the sexually explicit 
bboards was an independent research 
investigation that was conducted by five 
members of the faculty, three program
mers, a Supreme Court lawyer with ex
pertise in child pornography cases, and 
about eight student assistants, both 
graduate and undergraduate. The re
port is 80 pages long and took a year to 
complete. There were three major dis
coveries uncovered by the group. The 
first was that two of the images found on 
the CMU bboards were found to be ob
scene by a jury in Tennessee. The dis
tributor of these images was convicted 
on eleven counts of obscenity and is 
appealing. The group also found through
out the CMU computers several hun
dred images released by the same dis
tributor with similar content, which are 
subject to a 10-count indictment of child 
pornography in Utah. More than 300 
images depicting bestiality were discov
ered via CMU computers. Fifteen of 
these came from a Mexican bbs. The 
distributor was extradited last month 
on four counts of child pornography.
The purpose of the research was not to 
propose any changes in the policy. It 
started out as a matter of research, said 
Martin Rimm, the head investigator on
the team, The study does not draw any 
conclusion or promote any policy. Other 
members of the research team agreed, 
Our study and the administrations re
action were clearly separated, said 
David Banks, Associate professor in 
Statistics. Rimm wanted to distance him
self and the research team from the 
decision I dont endorse or advocate any 
policies by the administration about this 
report. According to Banks, the re
search team privately informed the ad
ministration about the accessibility of 
some of the material. We told them this 
report might be coming up and might be 
embarrassing to CMU, he said. With 
this study in hand, CMU could no longer 
claim ignorance. One of the major con
cerns was the number of minors that are 
open to much of the sexually explicit 
content. There are a number of high 
school students who have access to the 
system because of the Outreach pro
gram, Banks added.
McCullagh feels that the administra
tion has not shown any signs of chang
ing their position, They have not agreed 
to compromise, he said. Steinberg dis
agrees. On Monday Steinberg will meet 
with a variety of campus leaders includ
ing McCullagh and Michael Murphy, 
Dean of Student Affairs to decide how 
they can now review what bulletin boards 
that be pulled. A student protest has 
been scheduled for Wednesday in front 
of Warner Hall, according to McCullagh. 
At press time, it was hoped to have Mike 
Godwin, a representative of EFF. The 
demonstartion is set to start at noon.
Swastikas protest policy
Upon hearing the new policy released by the 
tamegie Mellon administration stating that 
certain bboards would be eliminated from the 
'Campus system, posters began appearing in 
residence halls and were passed out to the 
.student body.
Jhe main argument of the posters expressed 
he students anger towards the University's 
stand on the issue of sexually explicit 
bboards. At the end of the last week, Bill 
j'Arms, Vice President of Computing Services, 
-Announced to the campus community that as 
pf Tuesday all the alt.sex bboards and 
altbinaries.pictures bboards and 
rec.arts.erotica bboards will be eliminated 
^om the system.
Two forms of posters were hung up in the 
dormitories. One version displays "Carnegie
Mellon," with a swastika in place of the logo.
The poster announces, "Protecting you from 
sexcrime and thoughtcrime whether you like it 
or not. This is a statement designed to be 
sarcastic about the administrations sudden 
change in policy.
Michael Murphy, Dean of Student Affairs, is not 
happy with the use of a sawtstika, but under
stands why it was used. It is clear that the 
action is not against any group, just the 
descision, he said, This is clearly not used as 
a hate crime.
The poster has only been hung in dorms and 
has not appeared in any academic buildings. 
There is no identification on the poster as to 
who sponsored it.
 Edward Hayes
SportsrFea uoD ipoC
RfX.R9Sf AwD 
ygOWGgy.R9Sf 
WgfygfR YOW 19Kf 9y 
OR wOy.
This censorship paid for by your tuition fee
Newsgroups slated for
removal from CMU systems
This is a listing of the bboards scheduled to be removed from all news
servers including those of the School ofCoraputer Science, the Software
Engineering Institute, and the Electrical and Computer Engineering
Deaprtment. Some of the bboards may return pending a meeting of
campus leaders. It is unclear whether the Computer Club will adhere tothe policy change.
alt.sexalt.sex.jp
alt.sex.NOTalt.sex.magazines
alt.sex.advocacyalt.sex.masturbation
alt.sex.analalt.sex.motss
alt.sex.bearsalt.sex.movies
alt.sex.bestialityalt.sex.necrophilla
alt.sex.bestiallty.barneyalt.sex.nfs
aft.sex.bondagealt.sex.pedophilia
alt.sex.bondage.scoalt.sex.plushies
alt.sex.bondage.sco.unixalt.sex.prevost-derbecker
alt.sex.boredomalt.sex.safe
alt.sex.breastalt.sex.services
ait.sex.carassoalt.sex.spanking
alt.sex.cthulhualt.sex.stories
alt.sex.enemasalt.sex.stories.d
alt.sex.eroticaalt.sex.strip-clubs
alt.sex.erotica.marketplacealt.sex.telephone
alt.sex.exhibitionismalt.sex.toupee
alt.sex.extropiansalt.sex.trans
alt.sex.fatalt.sex.voxmeet
alt.sex.femdomalt.sex.voyeurism
alt.sex.fetishait.sex.wanted
alt. sex.fetish. amputeealt.sex.wizards
alt.sex.fetish.diapersalt.sex.woody-allen
alt.sex.fetish.faalt.sex.zoophilia
alt.sex.fetish .fashionait.binaries.pictures .erotica
alt.sex.fetish.feetaltbinaries.pictures.erotlca.anime
alt.sex.fetish.hairalt.binaries.pictures.erotica.bestialiiy
att.sex.fetish.orientalsalt.binaries.pictures.erotica.blondes
alt.sex.fetish.pekka_aakkoalt.binaries.pictures.erotica.bondage
alt.sex.fetish.robotsalt.binaries.pictures.erotica.cartoons
alt.sex.fetish.sportswearalt.binaries.pictures.erotica.d
alt.sex.fetish.startrekalt.binaries.pictures.erotica.female
alt.sex.fetish.ticklingalt.binaries.pictures.erotlca.fetish
alt.sex.fetish.trent-reznoralt.binaries.pictures.erotioa.furry
alt.sex.fetish.waifsaltjsinaries.pictures.erotica.male
alt.sex.fetish.watersportsalt.binaries.plctures.erotica.orientals
alt.sex.first-timealt.binaries.pictures.erotica.spatch
alt.sex.gunsalt.binaries.pictures.tasteless
alt.sex.hello-kittyrec.arts.erotica
alt.sex.intergen
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT
success, and plans are being and Morewood, and an ad was 
made to hold it again next year, placed in The Tartan about the 
elections.
SENATE _
STUDENT SENATE 
Meeting of 1 November 1994
Roll was taken at 7:00 PM. 
Meeting was called to order at 
:iOPM.
Senators Present: Ardire 
M), Atkinson (CIT), Benowitz 
iHSS), Bielke (CIT), Cote 
:GSIA), Franklin (HSS), 
jonzalez (MCS), Grant (Heinz), 
Holzman (CIT), Krisle (Misc),
' :allo (CIT), McKnight (Heinz), 
iielke (IM), Mueller (CIT), 
Pizzurro (MCS), Valko, Wang 
ICIT), White (HSS).
Senators Absent: Alexander 
1CFA), Gach (CFA), Gal-or 
CIT), Keir (CIT), Landers 
SCS), McGivney (Heinz)
Special Business: Created 
'residents Commission on the 
disciplinary Process and 
approved John Bums as Chair.
Approval of the Minutes:
Minutes from 10/18 were 
corrected and approved.
;
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Martin Dixon): Last 
peeks movies were Lord of the 
fos, The Crow, and The Pit 
flnd The Pendulum. This weeks 
jjovies are an. Animation 
estival, Four Weddings and a 
Uneral, and Wrestling Women 
,sAztec Mummy. The Confcrts Chairman Position will be 
fivertised and applications will 
taken. This Saturday we are 
sponsoring a trip to the Warhol 
jpjseum. It has sold out.ft
.QSO (Craig Brown): The 
J&e tasting event at the 
^national Festival was a
Greek Council: No report.
Faculty Senate (Anne 
Shields): No report.
Student Affairs (Kevin 
Hughes): Applications for the 
second annual Carnegie Mellon 
Leadership Institute can be 
picked up in Warner Hall 301. 
They are due back by Novem
ber 18.
SDC (Adam Davis): No 
report.
President (Declan 
McCullagh): Thanks to the 
Student Senate, the Presidents 
Commission on Dining is up 
and running.
Scotland Yard should be 
reopened the end of November, 
hopefully before Thanksgiving 
break. A meeting with the 
Student Government of Pitt is 
scheduled for Monday, Novem
ber 14.
Their meeting is at 7:00, 
followed by a chat at 8:00. The 
time and place will be posted to 
the bulletin board, and all are 
welcome.
Treasurer (Emma Gosden): 
The Tartan issue has been 
resolved, with both parties 
reaching an agreement similar 
to the one originally proposed 
by the Senate.
Human Resources (Troy 
Benowitz): At our next meeting 
we will prepare binders for next 
terms new senators, and all are 
welcome to help out.
We meet Wednesday nights 
at 6:00.
Public Relations (Eduardo 
Gonzalez): Leaflets are going to 
be distributed in Highlander
They are being held today, 
tomorrow, and Thursday. 
Meetings are at 4:45 in the 
Senatie Lounge.
Chair (Burt Holzman): 
Elections are on November 2 
from 11 am to 7 pm, and on 
November 3 from 9 am to 5 pm. 
Erik Larsen will be speaking 
tonight at Seton Hill College in 
Greensboro, Pa.
New Buisness from Com
mittee : Baseball Club Budget 
-Subsidy of $1,200
Passed by acclamation.
Spring Carnival Budget - 
Subsidy of $72,365
Amendment to line 8252 -
NO GIMMICKS 
EXTRA INCOME NOW!
fwVf1OPf RyWFF9wG: 
$600  $800 plpka wppk
Fkpp Dpce:Ft: RARf cu...
9ocpkoec:uoeF 9od.
N35 .uopa 9tFeo2 Alp. 
BkuukFaowpw Yukk NN230
Reduce to $4,500 from $6,000 
Failed 5-11.
Amendment to line 8340 - 
Reduce to $16,953 from $19,00 
Failed by voice vote.
Motion to rescind GSO grant 
for Tilted Square 
Passed 16-0.
Points of Discussion:
Carnival budget should not 
increase by twenty percent each 
year. GSO will meet at 5:30 on 
November 2 in Room 207 of the 
Student Center to vote on the 
redoing a room for the Tilted
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
fmspk:podp2- 
Dk:po2Fa tpkl:dp.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
iCoo yFR-W.ee
FRQGRfim 
S-R-R-R-H LFIUl-R-ENC-E COLLEGE
ANO THE
S-R1T15-H fimERICflN ?RHPrm flCflOEiriY
R vh
STUDY LU1T-H SRlTfRINS 
LEADING ACTORS AND 
DIRECTORS FOR 
R SEmESTER OR 
fl YERR. -H COmSlNRTlON 
OF ACTING CLR55ES, 
TUTORIALS,
MASTER CLASSES AND 
PERFOflrriflNCES 
immERSE
UNDERGRRDURTE5
yS udn lciyuyod
T-HERTR1CRL TRADITION.
jru m.TanPh aom ao aggPnpaTnroe 1unT.I Ts' PSFESF Ts'CAL' gLSOLCi 
Box BCMU hCLCs PCzL'FO' pSww'$' 'CE 1C5e 9LSF8Wlww'e NY 10708-5999 (800) 873-4752
Square.
AB will meet with represen
tatives from the Physical Plant 
and Student Affairs to discuss 
ways of cutting costs. All 
special allocations should be 
posted to the 
emu. student, government 
bulletin board. The Senate is 
tentatively scheduled to meet in 
Doherty Hall 2200 on Novem
ber 15.
Announcements:
Vacancies: 2 SCS, 3 CFA, 2 
HSS, 3 CIT, 1 Misc, 1 MCS, 1 
GSIA.
The Second Annual College
Bowl Tournament will be held 
on November 11-19.
The Presidents Committee 
on Dining will meet tomorrow 
at 1:30
A committee on diversity 
issues is being created. Contact 
Harriet Schwartz or watch the 
bbboard for more information.
Meeting adjourned at 8:30 
PM.
Submitted by: 
BENBOSTWICK 
Edited by: 
EDWARD HAYES
MISS PENNSYLVANIA USA PAGEANF
Official QWUminary/ 
[JSk^aymnb
NO PERFORMING TALENT REQUIRED
If you are an applicant who 
qualifies and are between the ages of 
18 and 27 by February 1,1996, never married and at least a six month resident of Pennsylvania, thus col
lege dorm students are eligible, you could be Pennsylvania's representa
tive at the CBS-nationally televised 
Miss USA Pageant* in February 1996 to compete for over $200,000 
In cash and prizes. The Miss Penn
sylvania USA Pageant for 1996 will be presented at the Palace Inn, Monroeville, Pennsylvania, March 
4 & 5,1995. The new Miss Pennsylvania USA, along with her expense 
paid trip to compete in the CBS-nationally televised Miss USA Pageant, will 
receive over $2,000 in cash among her many prizes. All ladies Interested in 
competing for the title must respond by mail. Letters must include a recent snapshot, < hriefiitgrapby, address and aphtne 
number WRITE TO:
g9RR PfwwRY1VAw9A WRA PAGfAwy 
c/o Tri-SUIe Headcyndera - Dept CA 'A Otntm PTcdttdlon' ;
347 Locusl Avenue, Wssfangton. PA 15301 cdcfca*(Kr \T y
Tri State Haafajirten Ptiona s 1412] 2&53U l11 _MEMBER
AppHcmHtu DcMMin* Is Otcemher 17, Iff*MUt USA* Po^coa! Is part oflkefmmUy of r.r.momml Comrnn.IctUlons, Inc. 
Miss Pennsylvania USA Pageant Is A Carvern Prodnctlon
Vffl
STEPHANIE FALLAT
Miss Pennsylvania USA*
Mb*IBA'taTbo
32.CHS

---------------------------------------------------

A N N OU.XCI N GN !: \V C l< !: IA C C () I N I S
YOURE LOOKING AT TWO COMPLETELY OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO INVEST IN STOCKS. 
________WE RECOMMEND BOTH.________
Introducing the CREF Growth Account and the CREF Equity Index Account.
Whether you want a fund that 
selects specific stocks or one that 
covers the market, were on the same page. 
Our new CREF Growth and CREF 
Equity Index Accounts use two distinct 
strategies for investing in the stock mar
ket, but both aim to provide what every 
smart investor looks for: long-term 
growth that outpaces inflation?
The CREF Growth Account searches 
for individual companies that are 
poised for superior growth. In contrast, 
the Equity Index Account looks for more 
diversification, with a portfolio encom
passing almost the entire range of U.S. 
stock investments. It will invest in stocks
in the Russell 3000,** a broad index of 
U.S. stocks.
Like our CREF Stock Account, which 
combines active, indexed, and foreign 
investing, andour Global Equities 
Account, which actively seeks opportuni
ties worldwide, the new funds are managed 
by experienced investment professionals. 
They're the same experts who have helped 
make TIAA-CREF the largest pension 
system in the U.S., managing over $130 
billion in assets.
To find out more about our new stock 
funds, and building your portfolio with 
TIAA-CREF, just call 1 800-842-2776.
And take your pick.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.5
The new fund, .re v.iUbl* Tor Retirement Annulli subjecl lo the termi of.vour institution's pl.n. They ire avubbte for . 
The Ruiiell 3000 i>  registered tr.den.rk o the Fr.nl Rui.ell Compiny. Ruuell i> not > .pon.or of the CREF Equity Index Ac 
For more complete information, including charges .nd expenses, c.ll 1 60Q.&42-2733. ext. 5509 for . CREF prospectus. Rrui the propec CREF cenific.tes .re distributed by TIAA-CREF Individu.! ind Institution.) Services. It
Information 
Session
Meet with representatives of the Ford Motor Company, and 
you'll get a taste of the 21 st century. Our Engineering and 
Information Systems professionals are using cutting edge 
technology to take Ford into the new era.
If you graduate with a degree in Information Systems, 
Computer Science, or Engineering (Electrical, Mechanical, 
Chemical, Computer, or Materials), come look into what Ford 
has to offer.
Dont miss this unique opportunity to take your talents into 
the future with the Ford Motor Company. We look forward to 
meeting you!
All interested students are cordially invited to attend 
an information session:
Porter Hall, Room 125C 
6pm - 8 pm 
Thursday, November 10.
Please dress casually. Refreshments will be provided
By choice, Ford Motor Company is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
What's New In Contraceptive Technology?
DEPO-PROVERA
Contraceptive Injection
DEPO-PROVERA Contraceptive injection (sterile medroxyprogesterone acetate 
suspension), launched in January this year, is a birth control method available to 
women in the United States. It is a prescription medication, which contains the active 
ingredient medroxyprogesterone acetate, a synthetic form of the natural hormone 
progesterone. Each injection provides contraceptive protection for a 3-month period, 
DEPO-PROVERA has been used safely and reliably by more than 30 million women 
worldwide since it was first introduced for contraceptive use in 1969 in New Zealand 
and it is available for contraception in more than 90 countries, including Germany, 
Norway, Sweden, Belgium, France, and the United Kingdom.
In studies, DEPO-PROVERA is more than 99% effective, making it one of the most 
reliable birth control methods available. The effectiveness of DEPO-PROVERA is 
dependent on the patient returning every 3 months for re-injection, rather than on 
daily compliance as with some other methods. DEPO-PROVERA works in some of 1 
the same ways as other hormonal contraceptives such as the pill. When the brain 
perceives an increase in progestin levels following injection of DEPO-PROVERA, it 
will suppress the release of gonadotropic hormones that stimulate maturation and 
release of mature egg. Without release of a mature egg, fertilization and pregnancy 
cannot occur. DEPO-PROVERA also causes cervical mucus changes that contribute 
to its contraceptive effect. DEPO-PROVERA does not contain estrogen, as do oral 
contraceptives.
The most common side effects reported by women using DEPO-PROVERA are 
changes in the menstrual cycle. These changes mostly consist of irregular or unpre
dictable bleeding or spotting. This tends to diminish and disappear after continued 
use. After 1 year of use, up to 57% of women will stop having their menstrual periods 
completely, which does not have a negative effect on reproductive health. However, in 
the months after the injections are discontinued, normal menstruation will begin 
again. Other side effects, reported in more than 5% of patients in clinical studies, 
which may be related to DEPO-PROVERA include weight gain, headache, nervous^ 
ness, abdominal pain, dizziness, and fatigue.
DEPO-PROVERA does not protect against HIV infection 
(AIDS) and other sexually transmitted diseases.
For more information about Depo-Provera, or to schedule an appointment, 
call the Student Health Service at 268-2157 press #2.
This ad is paid for by an educational grant from Upjohn
Have you been awarded a
CMUcens orbn
for the 1994-95 academic year?
If you have, you MUST sign a promissory note 
in order to borrow> a Perkins Loan. 
You are required to 
report to the Cyert Hall Atrium on:
Monday, November 7,1994 
9:00 am - 4:00 pm
or
Tuesday, November 8,1994 
9:00 am - 4:00 pm
to sign your note.
Thank you!

---------------------------------------------------

Ns CckCn  iCcnsIhs vsoopn  g ,pmstbsc ReeW5
Agendas presented
ELECTION, from page 1
area small businesses. Doyle also sup
ports cuts in defense spending, and 
many of the ideas espousedby Clintons 
crime bill.
On crime, Doyle would encourage 
government to retain violent offend
ers without parole. He also has plans 
if elected to reach out to young people 
at risk of becoming serious offenders, 
if elected.
Finally, Doyle backs 10-year term 
limits for Congress, a cap on campaign 
spending, and job-to-job portable 
health care.
John McCarty, like Doyle, is con
cerned with area business, but his 
focus is on larger corporations. 
McCarty has plans to revitalize the 
Monongahela Valley through job de
velopment.
On crime, Doyle said that he would 
have voted for the Crime Bill, but that
it was not perfect. McCarty, on the 
other hand, felt that the crime bill 
was not working including the plan to 
require communities to match funds 
for social programs and additional 
police officers.
Running for Governor of Pennsyl
vania are Mark Singel (D) and Tom 
Ridge (R). Singel is the current Lieu
tenant Governor, and served in place 
of Governor Casey during his surgery 
and recovery. Singels platform is 
based on a pro-choice stance on abor
tion, a plan for slowly taking the people 
off of welfare, and a ban on assault 
weapons.
Current Representative for the 18th 
congressional district, Singels oppo
nent Tom Ridge focuses his campaign 
on economic and agricultural devel
opment, improving transportation in 
Pennsylvania, abortion control, health 
care, and welfare reform.
Corrections
Elections turn out dissapoints
In the October 24 issue, on page LI of the Living section, the CMU Pipe and 
Drum Band was incorrectly identified as The Kiltie Band.
In last weeks CMU in Brief it was reported that the Librarys grace period 
would begin on October 31. The grace period will be implemented this 
summer.
In the editorial it was wrongly stated that 36-209/210 was eliminated. In 
actuality, it has been replaced with 36-201/202.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please 
contact the Editor-in-Chief Andrew Sproule, at x8-2111, or write him in care 
of The Tartan.
SENATE, from page 1
long-term plans. I dont have anything 
real concrete planned yet, but once I get 
the general idea of how things are run, 
then Ill make a decision as to what I 
think can be approved, said Hudson,.
The candidates also expressed that 
they would remain with Senate into the 
future. IM Senate candidate, Brenden 
Mielke said, Most definitely. Sharpe 
added, Yes, Im goingto stay with it, but 
I sure would like to see the student body 
become a lot less apathetic about things. 
Its their campus; they should get out 
and vote. Babyak said, You know, its 
really sad. Everyone on this campus has 
something to complain about, but when 
it comes to doing something about it, 
like Senate, either no one cares or they 
just arent interested. I think that if they 
arent going to care enough to do any
thing about it then they should all just 
shut up and stop complaining. Stu
dents had a number of reasons for not 
voting.
Michael Visconti, a junior art major, 
said, I didnt even know it was going on. 
How could I vote? Some students were 
more direct in their answers. Jarrod 
Jenzano, a senior physics major, said, I 
just dont care. Thats why I didnt vote. 
Marc Wsol, a fifth year student in politi
cal science, had this to say on his non
voting. Why? Senate is nothing but an 
exercise in futility.
There was an apparant lack of student 
participation with only 301 undergradu
ates casting a vote. Graduate students 
only represented 33 of the votes cast.
Unoffical Student Senate Election results
g.amegi<? itetitvrte ui_l^Juniuu\
Five fall and 1 spring seat available 
Anat Gal-Or 82 votes 
Siddliartha iGoldi) Patel 82 votes 
Aime Bielke 79 votes 
Daan Coster 72 votes 
Weining Chou 11 votes 
Michael Schwero 4 votes 
Joshua Greynolds 4 votes 
Douglas Jones 4 votes 
Kara Teklinski 4 votes 
BryonKrug 4 votes
.C-flfe-S Ej B.C. Arts
Two fall and three spring seats 
available.
Dillon Lin 8 votes 
James Albert 1 vote 
Darren Proutv 1 vote 
David Bott 1 vote 
Chris Brown 1 vote 
Lenny Young 1 vote 
Wakko Warren 1 vote
College of Humanities and
Social Sciences
Three fall and one spring seats
available.
TJ Sharpe 38 YOtes 
Kami White 32 votes 
Douglas Hudson 8 votes 
Joseph Gallo 5 votes 
Joshua Curtin 4 votes
Wallace Neel 4 votes 
Christopher Bamicle 4 votes 
Jesse Donaldson 3 votes 
Amy Potthast 2 votes
GSIA
One fall and two spring seats avail
able.
Michelle Valko 13 votes 
Deborah Cote 12 votes 
Austin Miller 3 votes 
Tristian Brandt 2 votes 
Rohit. Mulgrand 1 vote
One fall seat available.
Brenden Mielke 6 votes
Mellon Coll cue of Science
Two fall seats available.
Lynn Babyak 40 votes 
Joseph Demasi 3 votes 
Juliana Min 3 votes
aIlvCLpafaa9aCffh-k<?c
One fall seat available 
Jeff Rand 7 votes 
Amy McGovern 7 votes 
John Jantos 7 votes
Miscellaneous Students
One fall seat available.
John Studaras 9 votes
Crime and Incident Report
10/27 CRIMINAL MIS
CHIEF, 6:04 am. While on pa
trol, a campus police officer re
ported that an unknown 
suspect(s) had forced the right 
sliding door of the Coke refriger
ated cooler over the lock which is 
located on the left sliding door. 
On one of the academic buildings 
This caused both sliding doors to 
be unsecured. It wasnt deter"mined if anything was missing.
10/27 THEFT, 10:49 am. A fe
male was studying on the first 
floor of Hunt Library when she 
left her study area for approxi
mately 15 minutes. When she 
returned her bag was missing. 
The black bag contained two note
books, five dollars in US currency 
and a $100 Walkman.
10/28 SUSPICIOUS PER
SON, 10:48 am. Campus police 
were dispatched to the Second 
Avenue construction site to in
vestigate the report of a suspi
cious male who was roaming 
around the trailers.
A female saw the actor enter 
one of the trailers. When she ques
tioned him, he replied, I am 
looking for welders and burners. 
The female asked why, and the 
actor responded, I am just look
ing for work. The female asked 
for the suspects name and ad
dress which he supplied.
Upon calling the number the 
party on the other end had never 
heard of the male. Nothing was 
found to be stolen.
10/29 OPEN LEWDNESS/ 
PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS,
2:30 am. Two officers were patrollingthe Morewood circle when 
the saw a male urinating on the 
drivers door of one of the buses 
parked in the circle. After he fin
ished, he allowed the urine to run 
down the door. The male then 
began to head towards Morewood 
Gardens. On his way he bumped 
into at least one telephone pole. 
He staggered up the stairs to
wards the A tower entrance. 
When he reached the top of the 
stairs he nearly fell to the ground. 
He was issued an internal cita
tion.
10/29 POSSESSION OF A
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE,
2:49 am. Campus police were pa
trolling Morewood Gardens when 
a male exited E tower with a can 
of beer. The suspect said he found 
it in the elevator and was going to 
throw it out. The officers observed 
the suspect throw the can out, as 
well as a baggie.
The actor was a guest on cam
pus and was escorted to his 
friends room for verification. 
Later, the police returned to the 
waste basket to investigate the 
baggie. It contained a green veg
etable matter. Police returned to 
the room and arrested the male 
for marijuana possession.
10/30 ARSON, 3:35 am. A fire 
was reported at one of the frater
nity houses. When police arrived 
one of the brothers stated that he 
left his room for four or five min
utes when the alarms went off. 
He ran downstairs and found the 
entire dining room to be filled 
with smoke. The brothers 
immediatly extinguished the fire. 
The fire consisted of a bay of hay 
and a piece of wood from the fire
place. The heat detetors in the
dining room were not activated, 
nor was the builidngs fire alarm 
system. After the fire was out, 
fans were placed in the windows 
and doorways to clear the smoke.
10/30 VEHICLE DAMAGE,
5:27 pm. A male reported that his 
car had been damaged after some
one threw a pumpkin at it. There 
was a dent in the car and the 
splatters led to the belief that the 
pumpkin had been thrown from 
the patio of a fraternity house.
10/31 ATTEMPTED THEFT,
7:38 am. An ABM worker reported 
that she found two open US Par
cel packages on the floor of the 
first floor mens bathroom in 
Morewood A tower. The first pack
age was returned to its owner 
after there was no sign of any
thing stolen. The second package 
had no address and was returned 
to the sender.
10/31 BICYLIST/VEHICLE 
ACCIDENT, 6:47 pm. Campus 
police responded to a male who 
was injured in the middle of 
Forbes Ave. The police found him
to be conscious. The victim had 
pain in his left leg, right arm and 
lower right abdomen area. He 
was transported to Presbyterian 
University Hospital. The driver 
of the vehicle stated that she was 
making a left to head east on to 
Forbes Ave. when she saw the 
bicyclist in her headlights head
ing west on Forbes. The collision 
occured in the middle of the road
way.
11/3 OPEN LEWDNESS, 1:54 
am. Campus security was noti
fied of a male suspect urinating 
on the football field near the goal 
line. The campus police officers 
were dispatched and met up with 
the actor at mid-field. They is
sued him an internal citation for 
public lewdness.
11/3 PUBLIC INTOXICA
TION/UNDERAGE DRINK
ING, 2:36 am. A student was 
found lying on the floor of a locked 
stall in the first floor mens room 
in West Wing. Campus police and 
EMS were sent to the scene. EMS 
performed a complete secondary 
survey of the victim and offered
him a ride to the hospital; the 
male refused. He was issued an 
internal citation for public 
drunkeness and underage drink
ing.
The male said he had been 
drinking whiskey and Coke since 
9:00.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident report under 
the following guidelines:
 Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
All personal names of com
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic 
descrpitions and other personal 
details are given only in the con
text of complete descriptions.
Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
EDWARD HAYES
Perfectta
258 S. HIGHLAND AVE.  SHADYSIDE
(CORNER OF HIGHLAND & ALDER ST.)
Try our 
Dragon 
Wings
^Buy One Large 12 cut Pizza""|
I at Regular Price '"7 25 j.i-rj.'ijjij.i.i.ii.iijj j ..... I
661-9991
MON-THURS NN eCS:2 
FRI & SAT NN eCN:30 eC 
SUN wuuoS:2
GET 2 FREE TOPPINGS
RESUME DROP DATE 
November 7th
Signe! Bank Card i an equal opportunity employ et and fncoui.i^- women and minoniu-t lo apply SlHprt Prim,l" ' dru*-h^urkpUi^_
j Buy One Med. 8 cut Pizza | 
I at Regular Price /C25
i.'
$2 OFF
ANY TWO WHOLE 
HOAGIES or 
2 PASTA DINNERS
TOPPINGS ARE EXTRA. 
MUST MENTION COUPON.MUST MENTION COUPON.
Our drivers don't carry moie than 
$20. ($2 surcharge fee for checks) 
We accept checks  call for details
I Buy Any Large I 
I CalzoneSecond Oneji 50% OFF! 1
I_______________________I
College Recruiting-CL 
Signet Bank Card, Attn: 12061-0430 
P.O. Box 85525, Richmond, VA 23285-5525 
1-800-RECRUITSIG\ET
BANKCARD
FAMILY SPECIAL 
Large 16" Cheese Pizza 
Whole 16" Hoagie (any
Ser $1 1 95X JL +tax
i r 
i i 
i i 
i i 
i i 
i i
2 Large Cheese Pizzas 
Two Toppings Total 
(24 cuts total)
$1 195
X X +taxTOPPINGS ARE EX7RAof Coke
^Toppings Extra. Must mention Coupon j 'riaA j ^ ^BKseB xe-beB raB et,tsB. i
~i r 
i i 
i i 
i i
h h 
h h
Buy One Large Specialty 
Pizza, Get One Medium 
8 cut PizzaFREE
HELP WANTED: COOKS & DELIVERY DRIVERS NEEDED

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Censorship violates 
academic freedom
Based upon the American concept 
of the right of freedom of expression,
Carnegie Mellon is committed to stan
dards of open communication within 
this community....
To this end, the University can not 
tolerate any individual in the cam
pus community impeding the free 
speech of another, whether such 
speech is verbal or written. In inter
personal communications, the uni
versity must tolerate even offensive 
and disrespectful communications as 
long as such communications do not, 
in the eyes of our community, consti
tute harassment or intimidation.
Therefore, while I personally may 
find a poster or other communica
tion to be offensive, I have no right to 
exercise censorship over it, nor does 
any other person on this campus.
A letter from President 
Mehrabian to the campus 
community on April 6, 1994
If men and women are to value 
freedom, they must experience it. If 
they are to learn to choose wisely, 
they must know what the choices are, 
and they must learn in an environ
ment where no idea is unthinkable 
and where no alternative is withheld 
from their consideration....
For their part, colleges and uni
versities must hold vital the students' 
right to know. When so-called con
troversial speakers are invited to the 
campus by a recognized campus or
ganization, they speak not because 
they have a right to be heard but 
because the students have a right to 
hear. It is the students right to hear 
that the university must defend if it 
is to serve its high function in society.
To fulfill fully this responsibility, 
the University must ensure not only 
that no viewpoint is withheld, but 
that, within reasonable 'limits, all 
major alternatives are made avail
able to its students.
 From the University policy
concerning controversial speakers
Over the past few months a 
Carnegie Mellon research project has 
been studying the use of sexually 
explicit bulletin boards. It appears 
that, due to their content, the act of 
carrying a small number ofNetnews 
bulletin boards may be illegal in 
Pennsylvania. In the interest of free 
speech, the university carries a very 
wide range of bulletin boards for the 
community with no monitoring of 
their contents; however, it is a crimi
nal offense to knowingly disseminate 
sexually explicit material to minors 
or obscene material to people of any 
age. We have to be particularly care
ful because some of the users of our 
bulletin board system are under the 
age of 18.
This issue was discussed at the 
Academic Council on October 26. It 
was agreed that, in order to comply 
with the law, the university will not 
carry any bulletin board whose stated 
purpose is to distribute sexually ex
plicit or obscene material, or that is 
known to contain a high percentage 
of such material. In other aspects our 
policies concerning access to bulletin 
boards are unchanged. We will con
tinue to mount all theNetnews bulle
tin boards that the law permits and 
will not monitor their content."
A message from advisor,
Computing Services online 
consulting service
Since Carnegie Mellon is an insti
tute of higher learning, we are all 
probably familiar with a wide vari
ety of educational television pro
gramming, such as Sesame Street.
There is one songfromSesame Street, 
which starts out, One of these things 
is not like the others; one of these 
things is not the same.... As an 
exercise to the reader, we present 
three quotes above. One of these
students. Anyone wanting additional Epsilon Pi made the decision to start a
quotes is not like the others. One of 
these quotes is not the same.
As the quotes above show, Carnegie 
Mellons new policy on the alt.sex, 
alt.binaries.pictures, and
rec. arts, erotica newsgroups is totally 
inconsistent with its policies and 
statements regarding free speech 
and academic freedom. The Univer
sity can make all the grandiose state
ments it wants, but if it buckles at 
the first sign of a lawsuit, its state
ments are hollow.
The Universitys excuse for cen
soring newsgroups  that it found 
out it was breaking the law  is 
ridiculous. The University knew of 
these newsgroups and their content 
for a long time. Not only has the 
University not been approached by 
any member of the law enforcement 
community, but also  as it has 
stated  the University does not 
know if carrying these newsgroups 
is against the law.
What makes the Universitys cen
sorship even more detestable is that 
it is censoring every post in over 80 
newsgroups based on the group they 
are postedinnot their content. No 
one would make the argument that 
every post on every one of these 
newsgroups is obscene or sexually 
explicit. If the University were truly 
interested in following the law while 
still maintaining academic freedom, 
it would consider each post on an 
individual basis to determine if the 
post were obscene or sexually ex
plicit. Or, if it felt that none of the 
posts were obscene, but some were 
sexually explicit, it would put in the 
time and money to develop a system 
which would not allow minors to see 
the sexually explicit posts.
Besides illustrating the hypocrisy 
of the University, the removal of 
these controversial newsgroups sets 
a dangerous precedent for the rest of 
the University. Here are some ways 
in which this policy could effect other 
departments if it were universally 
applied:
 English classes would not study 
books which contained explicit sexual 
material, such as The Handmaids 
Tale, by Margaret Atwood, or novels 
by Kathy Acker.
 The Psychology department 
would have to remove Sigmund 
Freuds books and essays from the 
curriculum because oftheir sexually 
explicit nature.
 The Activities Board would no 
longer show NC-17 movies.
 Some speakers, including au
thor Susie Bright, who writes and 
speaks about sex, would no longer be 
allowed on campus
 The Student Dormitory Council 
would have to cancel most, if not all, 
of Sex Week, because ofits frank and 
explicit sexual nature.
 The Womens Center would no 
longer be open to all students, be
cause it has books and videos con
taining explicit sex.
 The library would have to re
move all sexually explicit books. 
(While the library may be exempt 
from Pennsylvania obscenity laws, 
the University could still censor it 
just to be safe.)
Clearly this is an abbreviated list 
of what could happen if this policy 
were applied throughout the Uni
versity. Also, it should be clear that 
not everything on this list would 
necessarily happen. But the impor
tant point is that the University is 
violating its policies regarding aca
demic freedom. If the University is 
willing to do it once, it will be willing 
to do it again.
The Universitys censorship is 
wrong and should not be tolerated. 
Every group and every person on 
this campus who believes in the prin
ciples of academic freedom should 
speak out against the University. 
Those who dont may regret it later 
when the University decides that 
something they are doing or saying 
is obscene.
Letters to the Editor
Editorial erred in stats offerings
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
A Tartan editorial 
[Course elimina
tion causes many 
problems, 10/31] 
entirely misrepre
sents the actual situation concerning 
the availability of statistics courses for 
students in H&SS or IM. The most im
portant error was the statement that 
our department simply eliminated 36- 
209/210. In fact, we replaced it with 36- 
201/202. This new sequence is a full 
substitute for 209/210 in that it covers 
the same material as 209/210. It is based 
on an innovative approach to learning 
statistics, emphasizing active student 
participation in computer laboratories. 
The initial results have been quite prom
ising in that students seem to be master
ing the concepts better, enjoying the 
material more and seeingmore relevance 
of statistics to their own course of study. 
IM students can choose from several 
sequences of statistics courses, but our 
department believes that the 201/202 
sequence would be the best choice for 
most IM students.
The editorial went on to say that IM 
students got locked out of 201 during 
registration last spring because the 
course filled up so quickly. Our records 
show that at the close of Spring 1994 
registration there were 101 students 
signed up for 36-201 from a possible 210 
available slots.
Furthermore, last Spring a special 
email message went to students who 
had not yet satisfied their statistics re
quirement inviting them to register early 
for this course. After registration was 
completed, the remaining 109 slots in 
36-201 were reserved for incoming H&SS 
freshmen for whom this course is re
quired. An important point that needs to 
be stated here is that it is vital that 
students use the registration period to 
signup for courses, especially those with 
limited enrollments.
The editorial also mentions that IM 
students must take an additional course, 
because the proper material is not be
ing covered [in 201/202]. This appar
ently refers to the Economics 
Departments introduction of Economet
rics I (73-260), a bridge course for stu
dents who do not have a sufficient back
ground in mathematical statistics to go 
directly into 73-360 (Econometrics II). 
The creation of this course in consulta
tion with the Statistics Department came 
about in response to the needs of some 
students who were not comfortable with 
the level of mathematical sophistication 
required for 73-360. Neither the old 209/ 
210 nor the new 201/202 sequences cover 
a sufficient amount of mathematical sta
tistics for students to fully master econo
metrics. IM students who have the proper 
prerequisites can certainly take 36-225/ 
226 and then move directly into 73-360 
without having to take 73-260.
It is vital that all CMU undergradu
ates receive careful, informed advice 
concerning their programs. With respect 
to the role of statistics in the IM curricu
lum, my department is engaged in dis
cussions with the new IM Head, Mark 
Fichman, and the IM advisors to try torlovolnr f Vio Kocf nnociKlo nrnnrori -friv TTV/T
information about statistics courses is 
encouraged to contact Joel Greenhouse 
(joel@stat.cmu.edu, x8-8872), the De
partment of Statistics undergraduate 
coordinator, or me (jpl@stat.cmu.edu, 
X8-8725).
John Lehoczky, Head 
Department of StatisticsPhysics courses clarified by dept
on
Letter to the Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I would like to cor
rect some factual 
errors concerning 
physics courses in 
your editorial 
[Course elimination causes many prob
lems, 10/31].
The statement in the editorial that 
there is no longer a course on introduc
tory electricity and magnetism is incor
rect. The old Physics for Science Stu
dents III (33-123) is still being given this 
fall. The new Physics for Science Stu
dents II (33-112), which will be given in 
Spring 1995, is the same as 33-123 ex
cept for the last three weeks, which are 
now devoted to oscillations and electro
magnetic radiation.
It is important to point out that these 
courses both provide an introduction to 
electricity and magnetism that is of par
ticular importance to chemistry majors 
and pre-med students.
The change from a three-course intro
ductory physics sequence to a two-course 
sequence was made at the request of the 
other departments in MCS. Physics 
majors will continue to take a threecourse introductory sequence. The op
tions available to students who had taken 
one or two courses from the old sequence 
had been discussed extensively in MCS 
before the changes were approved last 
year.
Neither I nor the Associate Head, Pro
fessor Stephen Garoff, had received a 
single complaint from any student or 
faculty member about problems caused 
by the new sequence, nor was I con
tacted in advance by the writer of the 
editorial.
In a related issue that was not ad
dressed by the editorial, the Physics 
Department is proposing to the MCS 
College Council that the name of the 
course 33-112 be changed to Introduc
tion to Electricity and Magnetism to 
avoid confusion with the old Physics II 
on student transcripts.
Naturally, I and the other members of 
the Physics Department would be 
pleased to discuss these matters further 
with anybody concerned.
Robert H. Swendsen 
Professor and Head 
Physics DepartmentAEPi salutes Air Force ROTC
Editor:
On behalf of Alpha 
Epsilon Pi, I would 
like to thank the Air 
Force ROTC fortheir 
generosity. At the
on
buggy program. Almost as soon as we 
made our intentions known, we were 
approached by Air Force ROTC. Since 
they were no longer interested in racing 
a buggy during sweepstakes, they gen
erously offered to donate their buggy 
and equipment, in an effort to help ease 
our way into buggy competition. With 
their help, we will have our buggy pro
gram underway much sooner than 1 
had expected.
In addition to Air Force ROTC, i 
would like to thank all of the other 
organizations involved in buggy compe
tition. We appreciate all of the support 
and advice that we have received from 
everyone and are excited about working 
with all of the buggy organizations for 
many years to come.
We look forward to seeing all of you on 
the hills real soon.
Mark Radel 
Buggy Chairman 
Alpha Epsilon PiAll sides spur speech threats
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
In his column 
[Free speech faces 
threats, 10/31],
Ronak Singhal complains about the 
stigma attached to right-wing people 
who speak out against affirmative ac
tion or alternative lifestyles. He states: 
A person may no longer be free to say 
what is on his mind just out of fear of 
what could happen. I find this quite 
ironic, because this is exactly how many 
gay people feel when discussing home 
life, weekend activities, family, dates, 
and other everyday topics with straight 
co-workers. The right wing people who 
Singhal marches to defend are exactly 
the people trying to attach more societal 
stigma to gay people, and even to write 
discrimination into state constitutions.
I agree with Singhal about the impor
tance of free expression. People who 
care about free speech need to break 
down societal stigmas created or per
petuated by people such as Rush 
Limbaugh or his left-wing counterparts. 
Of course people also need to learn that 
having the right to say a thing is not the 
same as being right in saying it.
In addition, Singhal has missed the 
numerous free speech attacks that are 
far more dangerous than societal stigma. 
These include right-wing attacks to cen
sor schools, libraries, TV, and music, 
and left-wing attacks to censor hate 
speech. Free speech is constantly under 
attack by laws and lawsuits, and only 
vigilant action to protect speech, even 
when its speech you dont like, will pre
serve this fundamental right.
Chris Newman 
Systems Programmer 
Computing Services
.. University Center * Greeks'* Student involvraent * Student Senate  Athletic Facilit Woinens Issues 0 J aicy Bboards  Student ing Politics Funding rFootbal
Letter to 
the Editor
nomnninrr nf fViio onnnnl uaar AlnVio
;ion
rice * Environment  Recycling;Middle East * Weather * Advising 3ex * netnev/a.oit.sex.spanking  Alcohol Drug-' Music * Mighty Mouse * Comedy * Woody AlteG

---------------------------------------------------

Ns CckCn  iCcnsIhs vsoopn  g ,pmstbsc ReeWg
v4 pFpdc:uot npF2 yIpt2ea
Senator Woffords integrity prevails
der from Mount Lebanon would be forced 
to run against an incredibly popular in
cumbent from McKeesport. 
Unfortunately, the strategy backfired. 
Jason Togyer The incumbent got nailed in the House 
Bank scandal and declined to run for reIm happy, and sad, to say that I am as election. The party faithful, with their 
prescient a political prognosticator as a usual coordination and restraint, ran a 
highly esteemed CMU political science dozen or so candidates for the Democratic 
professor. nomination. The result was an incredibly
gy mixed emotions stem from a predicfractured vote that selected a Republicantion I made a few weeks ago, in private, turned-Democrat do-nothing to run 
that was echoed by Eric Devereux to talkagainst my main man, Rick. I held my 
show hosts Lynn Cullen and Ann Devlin, nose and voted for Santorum, thinking 
Thus, my ego has been tweaked a little, that at least he stood for government reUnfortunately, the prediction was that form and fresh blood.
U.S. Senate candidate Rick Santorum was Well, that was two years ago, and it
being groomed for the presidency. turns out Ricks all for taking us back to
the good ol days 
(1929) and is out 
for blood.
Quite frankly, 
Im not sure what 
Santorum stands 
for anymore. Hes
I have a confes
sion to make: I conI have a confession totributed.inmyown . _ _ _ , , ,way, to the make: In 1992,1 voted
creation of this mon
ster. Ini 992,1 voted 
to re-elect Slick 
Rick.
to re-elect Slick Rick.
I have a good explanation. Really. In 
1991, after oodles of people fled 
Pennsylvanias confines, two of the 
Commonwealths congressional districts 
were eliminated. Pennsylvania House 
Democrats, showing the sense of decency 
and fair play that has made the Mafia so 
popular, decided theyd have a little fun. 
They gerrymandered Santorums district 
and combined it with one in the heavily 
Democratic Mon Valley  the Boy Woncozied up to the religious right, the de
fense hawks, the anti-everything Newt 
Gingrich wing of the Republican party. 
Rick says he isnt as conservative as his 
opponent says he is, but in my book, when 
you lies down with dogs, you wakes up 
with fleas.
Ive never believed that government 
could solve all my problems; you have to 
fight your own battles and take responsi
bility for your own actions. But the ReaganPlease see SENATE, page 8
Santorum offers fresh perspective
expect nothing back. Santorum was 
pointing out reality. Either the taxes 
must go up (theyre too high already), or 
the eligibility age must be rolled back. 
James Stepanek He was saying this to college kids and 
talking about how things would have to
Its interesting how low politics can go change for them. Wofford, of course, not 
these days. We have a prime example of being able to win on the issues, has used 
how mudslinging has become the norm this as a scare tactic to frighten senior 
and issues have fallen by the wayside in citizens, claiming that Santorum wants 
our local races. The case of Santorum to cut their benefits. This is a cheap and 
versus Wofford is a prime example of one transparent tactic, 
side discussing
issues while the 
other side just 
slings mud. Of 
course, we also 
have Ridge vs. 
Singel where
Santorum only started to 
sling mud after being 
drenched in it by Wofford.
Santorum 
had been run
ning a clean 
campaign of 
issues and 
ideas. The 
campai^
mud is the only thing used, proposed or pointed out ideological differences bediscussed, but I dont have my waders on, tween himself and Wofford and didnt 
so 111 leave that one alone. bother with mudslinging. He underEveryone has probably seen the Wofford stood, rightly, that Americans are sick 
commercial showing Santorum saying of big government. His arguments simthat Social Security will have to be pushed ply pointed out the ideological differback to age 70. Of course, Wofford never ences between the candidates. He only 
bothered to mention that Santorum was started to sling mud after being liberaddressing college students at the time, ally drenched in it by Wofford. Id have 
Remarks can seem completely different to say the retaliation has even been 
when taken out of context. Santorum was mild. He simply listed Woffords promdoing something as simple as pointing ises versus his performance. Its a very 
out reality. For people our age, Social spotty record.
Security is not a promise, its a burden. Not that it needs clarification, but Im 
On its present course the trust fund for disposed towards Santorum. Ive actuSocial Security will go broke in either the ally campaigned with him door to door, 
first or second decade of the next century Hes a nice man who cares about his 
(20-30 years) and you and I can therefore Please see CONSERVATIVES, page 8
Heres an idea: Dont vote
Matt Ball
The elections are just around 
the comer, and I am not planning 
to vote.
Some people would argue, But 
what if everyone followed your 
example and did not vote? Al
though the actions of others are 
.not my responsibility, I would 
rather have everyone fol
low my example and not 
vote. As I recently read:
Dont vote. It just en
courages them. Cer
tainly Washington, and 
politicians in general, do 
not need to have my approval. 
How could anyone with a clear 
conscience vote any of the people 
uTunning into a job? If there were
None of the above category, I 
would vote.
The political system in this 
country is a joke. Realistically, 
any attempt at change is doomed 
;to failure.
I am currently pursuing a de
gree in Engineering and Public
the workings ofWashington more 
horrifying than anything Stephen 
King has dreamt, more insidious 
than any plot Tom Clancy could 
conjure. If anyone has any illu
sions of altering, or even slowing, 
the bureaucratic feeding frenzy 
that is D.C., I advise them to read 
this book.
Yet it is too easy to throw up 
ones hands and proclaim that 
lobbyists greed and special in
terests have killed democracy.
If there were a None of 
the above category, I 
would vote.
The voters of this country are far 
from innocent.
All during the Reagan years, 
the people were content to allow 
larger and larger accumulated 
debt, military spending through jobs they will sacrifice our re
figured it would be a boon to the 
democrats, because it was diffi
cult to imagine the public being 
so stupid and gullible to believe 
this again. Tax less, spend more, 
and balance a budget hundreds 
of billions of dollars out of whack 
... fool me once, Ronald, shame on 
you; fool me twice, Newt, shame 
on me.
But the public is eating this up! 
The obstructionist, kill-everything-in-sight republicans are 
being touted as the 
gridlock saviors. Yes, 
in the name of being 
tough on crime they 
will protect us from 
those nasty liberals de
nying our constitu
tional right to surface-to-air mis
siles. Yes, in the name of less 
government they will protect farm 
and water subsidies. Yes, in the 
name of a few years of obsolete
maining old-growth forests and 
let us finish stripping clean all 
fisheries. Yes, in the name of fam
ily and freedom they will make 
gays sub-humans, open to abuses 
normally reserved for those ferothe roof, and tax cuts for many.
Today, even though the deficit is 
slowing its growth and the 
economy is showing some rela
tive measure of health, the demo
crats are in a great deal of politiMcy. Althoughit has never been cal trouble. A number of congrescious pigs and chickens. And yes, 
my inclination, many from my sional republicans, led by Newt in the name of Jesus they will 
department go on to deal with Gingrich, are promising more foist their superstitions upon us 
policy issues in some type of govdefense spending, tax cuts, and a all.
rnmental/consuiting agency, balanced budget. Theyll tell us And we will deserve every bit of
This semester, I am taking a class how they will accomplish this afspecifically related to organizater the election, if only we throw 
tions and policy analysis; one of these nasty democrats out of ofthe readings was Hedrick Smiths fice.
The Power Game, a description of When I initially heard this, I
it, if we vote them into office. 
Perhaps there is reason to vote.
Matt Ball is a PhD student in 
engineering and public policy.
SeXXXy bboards arouse censorship
The Editors Notebook
Editors Notebook is a fea
ture which gives members of 
The Tartan Editorial Board 
the opportunity to express their 
individual opinions. Editors 
Notebook presents the opin
ions of the individual author 
only, not necessarily the opin
ions of The Tartan or of the 
Editorial Board.
Heres the latest news flash 
from the CMU administra
tion: right this very minute, 
even as you read this newspa
per, legions oil 7-year-olds are 
in danger of being corrupted 
by (gasp!) sexual thoughts.
Or at least thats the mes
sage CMU sent last week 
when it announced that it 
would abolish the campuss 
access to certain sex-themed 
internet bulletin boards.
The folks in Warner Hall 
: insisttht theyre simply com
plying with a state law re
stricting obscene and sexu
ally explicit material from 
being distributed to minors. 
Some minors have Andrew accounts, so CMU could be sued.
Hey, would that be so bad? 
CMUs big-shot lawyers cost 
us quite a pretty penny as is. I 
think itd be pretty entertain
ing to see CMU go to court over 
this: Tour honor, the bboard 
posting in question involved 
fully consenting goats!"
But I digress. The real issue 
here is censorship, and CMU is 
pretty damn lame if the best 
excuse it can come up with is 
the underage-sex story. Last 
time I checked, there were 
about five million programmers 
on this campus who would be 
happy to assist in designing a 
system that prevented minors 
from accessing the bboards in 
question. (My heart goes out to 
the poor freshmen, for in many 
cases, they need these bboards 
more than most of us can even 
imagine.)
Its sad to see that free speech 
is something CMU feels isnt 
important enough to fight for, 
and I hope the administration 
reconsiders its hasty decision. 
In the meantime, unless theyve 
already started carding stu
dents who buy Playboy in the 
University Shoppe,! see agreat 
lawsuit opportunity in the mak
ing. Quick! Somebody call 
Edgar Snyder.
Abby Schiff
A PERSONS
OPINION
The administration re
cently announced that beginning on Tuesday, CMU com
puter users would no longer 
be able to access certain 
internet bboards due to their 
sexual content. We asked stu
dents: What do you think 
of the decision to remove 
sexually explicit bboards 
from CMU?
Florence Taitel
Sophomore
ChemE
I think its pointless and will 
waste a lot of effort. I dont think 
people have been sheltered from 
bad language enough that they 
would be corrupted by a bboard.
Ben Raia
Sophomore
CS
Censorship in itself is not a 
good thing. CMU has its hands 
tied because its Pennsylvania 
law. If students have a differ
ence of opinion on this, they 
should try to change the law at 
the governmental level.
Sabina Jindal
Sophomore
ChemE/Economics
It shouldnt be done! Its free
dom of speech.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Steve Schwartz
Junior
MechE
This may be CMU, but if you 
need to read a bboard to get 
turned on theres a clue you need 
to get out more.
THE TARTAN
.ekopi:p SpFcuo't RcI2poc wpwtsespk 
R:odp Nv06
Editorin-Chief......Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed. .Samuel Greenfield
Business Manager...........Amit Kar
News Ed.......................Edward Hayes
Forum Editor...................Abby Schiff
Sports Editor.................Eric Strauss
Features Editor...........Eric Salzman
Diversions Editor ....Kathy Wright
Calendar Ed.........Jonmichael Moy
Dossier Literary Ed. Lauren Heinz 
Dossier Dsgn. Ed.Brockett Horne
Art Co-Editors................Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor.....................Jim Snyder
Production Mgr.......Katie Swango
Personnel Mgr.........Angela Molloy
Act. Copy Mgr......Richard Smolen
Systems Mgr........Chad McDaniel
Asst. Forum Ed............Kris Hinrichs
Asst. Sports Ed. Matthew Solitro
Asst. Features Ed.........Lesley Kay
Allle King
Asst. Div. Ed. ...Paul Tabachneck
Asst. Prod. Mgr...........Derek Wahila
Darkroom Mgr.......Evan Shechter
Photo Staff Manager. David Perry
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball, Ken Kraemer, Declan 
McCullagh, Andrew McDermott
Staffwriters 
Jason Andracki, John Biggs, Max 
Chittlster, Carey Clevenger, 
Mahua Dutta, Christina Farrell, 
Shannon Gibney, Dan Goldwasser, 
Anuj Gupta, Tom Harper, Jason 
Heinleln, Vladimir Labeikovsky, 
Deena Newsom, Ronak Slnghal, 
Jon Slenk, James Stepanek, 
Bethany Sutton, Bill Vandermark, 
Sharmlla Venkatasubbeen, 
Dawn Wallhausen, Susan Watson, 
John Weber, Carter Yang, Heather 
Zlndel
Art
Justin Carroll, Gabrien Symons
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Robert Brunskill, 
Nick Casclato Jr., Matt Goldberg, 
Mark Kantrowltz, Christopher 
Nelson, Jackson Tam, David White
Photo
VlneetAgarwal,TusharDubey,Rob 
Earhart, Bassem El-Dasher, An
drew Flores, Janet Lee, Pat 
Prasangslt, Jason Siegendorf, 
Jackson Tam, Marla Valenti, Cheryl 
Vlaud, Natalie Wochele
Darkroom '
Rachel Noack, Margaret Stallings
Production 
Kathy Liu, Jason Ma, Carrie 
McDonough, Elizabeth Neuman, 
Eric Pettus
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Madhav Ghanta, 
D. Renee Hairston, Lisa Kruglak, 
Ed Slavishak
Business 
Christa Bower, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Roula Abdel-Baki, Heather 
Alexander, Michael Ayoob, David 
Branning, Steven Burns, Seth A. 
Covitz, Manoo Halati, Adam 
Klivans, Ron Kurti, Rolf Neill, David 
Osorio, Shantanu Rana, Emily 
Rosenthal, Caleb Sidel, Daniella 
Topol, Mauricio Vives, Daniel 
Yanger
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carn
egie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper 
published by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, at no cost to members of the Univer
sity community. It is printed by Western Pennsyl
vania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available 
for the semester or academic year. The editori
als appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political cartoons 
are the opinions of individual creators. The 
Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense 
any column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names may 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests 
that letters be no longer than 500 words. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Copyright 1994 by Tho Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegie
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

FNs CckCn  iCcnsIhs vsoopn  g ,pmstbsc ReeW
Kpps ReocukIC uIc uD Rpoecp
SENATE, from page 7
Bush years were not good for the 
working class  the rich got 
richer, and the poor got poorer 
working in low-paying service 
jobs.
Trickle-down economics is a 
joke. The wealthy dont get 
wealthy in the first place by 
spending their money. The legacy 
of Ronald Reagan sits rusting in 
towns like Scranton, Homestead, 
South Bend, and Cleveland. If 
increasing class division is what 
Rick Santorum and his friends 
stand for, then they can keep their 
contract with America (how is it a 
contract with America? No one I 
know was asked to sign).
Now, Harris Wofford is a care
taker. Hes a genuinely nice guy 
who is concerned about the prob
lems of the middle class, and who 
has the integrity and intelligence
to help solve them. His creden
tials in public service are impec
cable. But his short three years 
in the Senate have been undis
tinguished and unremarkable. 
His quiet nobility is honorable, 
but it doesnt play well on TV like 
Slick Ricks well-rehearsed plati
tudes and kung-fu delivery. Sena
tor Wofford has thrown as much 
mud as Santorum has, but its 
been a weak effort, consisting 
mostly of highly dubious claims 
about his opponents record on 
Social Security.
Tomorrow, the people of Penn
sylvania will most likely go to the 
polls and elect a real empty suit 
to the nations highest house, and 
thats sad. Theyre working 
harder than ever before for less 
money, and theyre jealous of 
people who they think have it 
easyfor example, those mythi
cal welfare cheats that the 
G.O.P. is so fond of fighting, if 
they could just find a few. Every
body wants more government 
services, but wants to pay less for 
them. With their misguided 
gimme, gimme attitude, theyre 
going to throw a good man, Har
ris Wofford, out of the Senate.
In the meantime, Im ordering 
some of those foreign language 
tapes that are advertised on the 
radio so that in 2004, when Presi
dent Santorum deports all of the 
poor people (except for countryclub employees and parking lot 
valets), Ill be ready for Mexico. 
/Adios!
Jason Togyer is a junior profes
sional writing major whos going 
to do something tomorrow that 
hes never done before  vote 
straight Democrat.
G:lp duotpklec:lpt e dneodp
CONSERVATIVES, from page 7
constituents and seems genuinely interested in 
their concerns. He believes in a return to govern
ment which is run bottom up, not top-down. He 
actually believes in the tenth amendment.
For those of you who have had their education 
with respect to this amendment neglected (as a 
liberal would love to do), here it is:
The powers not delegated to the United States 
by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the 
States, are reserved to the States respectively, or 
to the people.
Pretty simple, eh? Pity that Roosevelt and all 
the Democrats who have followed him have been 
busily driving a stake through the heart of this 
one for years. We have federal mandates for all 
kinds of things. The federal government continu
ally generates regulations intruding into all ar
eas of our lives. We are being ruled by an 
imperial power out of Washington D.C.; Harris 
Wofford is part of this kind of government. 
Santorum is trying to reverse this. Simple differ
entiation, I'd say.
The most amusing part of this campaign is 
how Wofford is 'tarring' Santorum with allega. 
tions that Santorum wants a return to the 
eighties. This is an insult?!? Oh yeah, of course 
we dont want a return of the largest peacetime 
economic expansion in years. Of course that 
creation of 19 million jobs was a bad thing. Of 
course the cutting of taxes and removal of regu. 
lation was a bad thing. Who is he kidding?
Just to move things to a more local front, I saw 
some sign saying that Santorum was a member 
of the radical right. What, is a return t0 
constitutional government, radical? Is letting 
people keep their money instead of taking it 
away in taxation radical? At present, when you 
graduate, youll be paying about one third of 
your income in taxes. The Democrats say were 
under taxed  yeah, right. Is letting govern
ment be controlled close to home radical? If so, 
then you can label me a radical as well.
James Stepanekis a PhD student in materials 
science engineering.
Whaddya Say To A Guy Whos 
Had The Same Job For 50 Years, 
Has Never Called In Sick Or Showed 
Up Late, Never Taken A Vacation 
Or A Holiday, Never Asked For 
A Raise Or Griped About His Bonus 
And, Believe It Or Not, Has No 
Plans For Retirement?
Thanks.
Show Smokey how much you appreciate his many years of vigilance by being careful with malches 
and campfires. Remember - only you can prevent forest fires.
A Public Service of the USDA Forest Service and Your State Forester.
Alpha Epsilon Pi Fraternity 
Congratulates its New Brothers
Brian John Cardanha 
Larry Michael Cohen 
Barry Howard Kaplan 
Joshua Gabriel Magnas 
David Lefkowitz Pinkus
Ilya Shafir 
Eric Seth Shapow 
Noah David Simon 
Matthew Harris Titelbaum 
Aaron Ben Weisberg
Andrew J. Yeckel
WATCH in
mi it ohMDAII.
UND m T0NCU DH IJJOT T
SHOW lit Mi VALID (IDO I.D. (MD 11 HD W'Ll 
TDM m OH Of OUi LUNCH IMI) DlttSI 
DISO. CHH 001 OOH NWT LOCUTION 
IN THf N0HT4J HILLS. NOW 0PH.
V0TD UNDISPUTED "MST IMXICHN HiSTflOHflNT" HV 
0TH IN PITTSWH HND MTTSUMH IflflCHK
111
m\> m
i As' tot iK mio lAH uni) m li. ls iwde cti-tcce 
Ss ilil ni, il7 aw mm mimiti, wra;

---------------------------------------------------

By MATTHEW SOLITRO
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
It is one of the most controver
sial ways to end a game, but after 120 minutes of scoreless play, the 
winner of the Muhlenberg-CMU
intense and emotional soccer. 
Muhlenbergs rough defense gave 
the Tartans only a few offensive 
opportunities early in the game. 
However, Muhlenberg was tough 
to beat in the air, and they were 
able to get off a number of excelplayoff match had to be decided lent shots on goal. Warren was 
by a penalty kick shootout. After up for the challenge and made 
nine shots, the teams were tied at several difficult saves.
two goals a piece, but Muhlenberg 
had one shot remaining. The Tar
tans had to rely on senior goal
keeper Dan Warren to keep their 
hopes alive. However, after play
ing a brilliant game, Warren could 
not stop the final penalty shot by 
Muhlenberg junior Thomas 
Auchenbach that ended Carnegie 
Mellons 1994 season.
After two years of just missing 
the playoffs, the mens soccer 
team finally received an invita
tion to join the 32 Division III 
teams battling for the national 
championship. They first had to 
face the top seed and host of the 
Mid-Atlantic Region, Muhlenberg 
College. Muhlenberg was ranked 
third in the country in the final 
poll of the season.
There was a definite feeling of 
excitement among the team as 
they prepared for the biggest 
game in the history of CMU soc
cer. As the kickoff drew nearer, 
the Tartans became a little tense. 
I am pretty nervous, said War
ren before the game. Ive been 
nervous since I got up this morn
ing. I just want to get out and 
play now.
Both teams started out playing
One of the few opportunities 
CMU had in the first half came 
when senior midfielder Vince
sailed just wide.
Tempers were flaring early in 
the game as CMU picked up three 
yellow cards and Muhlenberg 
picked up two of its own, includ
ing one for kicking the goalie when 
he came out to make a save.
The Tartans were having 
trouble creating plays out of the 
midfield and getting shots on goal 
for the remainder of the first half. 
However, Muhlenberg was gen
erating a number of opportuniMatthew Solitro/Tartan Assistant Sports Editor 
CMU goalie Dan Warren makes a tough save during the shootout. 
Warren came up one save short after playing a magnificent game.
Matthew Solitro/Tartan Assistant Sports Editor 
Mike Brazinski feeds Akira imai as Imai heads for 
the Muhlenberg goal.
Russell crossed the ball to senior 
forward Alex Amezquita, whose 
header was saved by Muhlenberg 
goalie Ron Moser. Another chance 
to score came a 
few minutes 
later. As senior 
forward Mike 
Brazinski was 
trying to get 
around a Muhl
enberg de
fender, fresh
man midfielder 
Jason Buelow 
came zooming 
out of nowhere 
and blasted a 
shot from 30 
yards out that
ties to score against the Tartans. 
Several times, Muhlenberg took 
advantage of its midfielders 
speed to bring the ball down the 
line and into the comer. From 
there, they would send a danger
ous cross in front of the CMU net. 
Warren was able to grab many of 
these crosses while the CMU de
fenders, junior Alan Levin, and 
sophomores Rich Herr and Suraj 
Naik, were able to clear several 
others with their heads.
The Tartans got a scare when 
Muhlenberg sent a ball to an open 
player in the penalty box. War
ren was able to stop the closerange shot as he charged out of 
the net, but Muhlenberg main
tained control of the ball in the
box, with the goalie out of the net. 
Luckily, senior Chuck Kuba 
hustledbackandblockedthe shot. 
Warren was able to pounce on the 
ball as it rolled by the goal mouth.
After one half of scoreless play, 
the teams switched sides, which 
meant CMU had to defend the 
end of the field surrounded by a 
rowdy group of Muhlenberg fans. 
Warren had to put up with con
stant taunting throughout the 
second half, but he showed in
credible maturity, ignored the 
hecklers, and made some incred
ible saves.
Muhlenberg had another great 
chance to score when the ball was 
crossed to Muhlenberg junior 
Jamie Ebersole, who was open in 
the penalty box. Ebersoles div
ing header slammed off of the 
crossbar and out of the box.
After that, neither team had 
any real opportunities to score 
for quite some time, as both teams 
struggled for control of the ball in 
the midfield.
Later in the second half, 
Muhlenberg began to test War
ren again, but he was able to stop 
everything that came his way, 
including a rocket from 
Muhlenbergs Tim Averell that 
amazed the entire crowd.
Late in the second half, the 
pace of the game died down 
considerably as both teams were 
getting tired. The Tartans were 
able to control the ball around 
the Muhlenberg goal for a while, 
but they were not able to get off a 
good shot. At the end of regula
tion, the game was still scoreless.
The Tartans were on fire in the 
first half of overtime, while 
Muhlenberg seemed to lose its 
intensity. CMU generated plenty 
of offense, but none of their shots 
were able to find the back of the 
net. Things evened out in the 
. second half of overtime as both 
teams became absolutely ex
hausted. The Tartans had a great 
opportunity to score when Kuba 
received the ball at the top of the 
box as a result of a bad clear by 
the Muhlenberg defense. Kuba 
fired on net, but his shot was just
Matthew Solitro/Tartan Assistant Sports Editor 
Alan Levin (far left), Chuck Kuba (#5), and Alex Amezquita (#15) 
challenge for a header in their defensive zone.
a little too high. CMU was again 
able to control the ball around 
the goal, but they did not take 
any more good shots. In a desper
ate attempt to score, a 
Muhlenberg forward did his best 
imitation of Diego Maradonas 
Hand of God play and tried to 
punch the ball in the net while 
making it look like a header. The 
referee caught him and issued a 
yellow card. Warren was able to 
stop Muhlenbergs last few shots 
to send the game into a shootout.
The Tartans had the first shot 
in the five round penalty kick 
shootout. First up for CMU was 
freshman midfielder Jason 
Buelow. His shot was blocked by 
Moser. Now it was Muhlenbergs 
turn. Tim Averell was able to get 
his shot past Warren and into the 
right side of the net. Muhlenberg 
led, 1-0.
Next up for the Tartans was 
freshman midfielder Akira Imai. 
Moser was able to come up with 
another big save for Muhlenberg. 
Junior Brian Kelly then stepped 
to the line for Muhlenberg, but 
Warren was able to save his shot 
that went to the lower left corner.
CMUs next shooter was 
Brazinski. Moser was able to come 
up with yet another brilliant save. 
Muhlenbergs next shooter, se
nior defender Tom McAneney, 
missed the goal to the left. 
Muhlenberg still led 1-0.
Next up for the Tartans was 
Russell, whose shot to the upper 
left corner was totally out of the 
reach of Moser to tie the game at 
1-1. However, Muhlenberg went 
back ahead, 2-1, when Ed 
Skeffington scored with a shot to 
the right side of the net.
Amezquita was the final 
shooter for CMU. He had to score 
to keep CMU alive. He calmly put 
the ball past Moser and into the 
left side of the net to tie the game 
at 2-2.
Finally, Muhlenbergs Auchen
bach stepped to the line. If he 
scored, Muhlenberg would win 
its first playoff game in five tries. 
Otherwise, the shootout would 
continue. The crowd fell silent 
and tension built as Auchenbach 
lined up for his shot. He seemed 
to catch Warren leaning the 
wrong way and put the ball into 
the left side of the net for the win.
It was a tough game to lose, but 
nothing could deny the fact that 
the Tartans played extremely 
well. Warrens play in net was 
especially strong.
Head coach Nick Gaudioso was 
confident going into the sho otout.
Please see PLAYOFFS, page 11
FuucbeFF cpeC w:ot D:oeF nuCp ieCp
Mike Mathias in the end zone for a twopoint conversion to give the Tartans a 
14-0 lead.
The Tartans started the second quar
ter with another drive which lasted 12 
plays, 11 of which were rushes. The 
Tartans rushed the ball all the way 
down to the Grove City 11 yard line and 
then Mathias found a hole off the right 
side and rambled the final 11 yards for 
the touchdown. This time, however,
By JOHN WEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
Saturday was the final home game of 
the 1994 season for the Tartans, and 
therefore it was the last home game for 
all of the Tartan seniors. The seniors 
that played their last game Saturday 
were: defensive tackle Merle Atkinson, 
quarterback Chris Dee, defensive back 
Joe Ferris, fullback Jason Grusky, of
fensive tackle Kevin Keir, center James 
Myers, wide receiver Matt Neiss, dfen
sive tackle Rob Shenk, nose tackle David 
Viszlay, and offensive tackle Paul 
Volchko. As a whole, the Tar
tans extended their winning 
streak to three games as they 
pounded the Wolverines of 
Grove City College by a score 
of 55-20.
It didnt take long for the 
Tartans to get into the end 
zone this week. On the third 
play from scrimmage, Grove 
City quarterback Doug 
Hamsher was intercepted by 
cornerback Nathan Morgan, 
who returned the ball down to 
the Grove City 20 yard line.
From there the Tartans rushed 
Grusky up the middle three 
times, scoring on the third 
play. Sophomore Todd Smiths 
extra point was no good, so the 
Tartans had to settle for a 6-0
lead. Grove City punted on its---------------------------------------nv+ . -, ,, m Bassem El-Dasher/Tartan photographer
tan offense^started another Running backs Mike Mathlas <#1> and Jason Grusky <#45> led 
drive from its o 33 yard the Tarta" gr0und COmbining f<185 ya'dS ru8hin*
line. The scoring drive took 13 plays, 10 team the rest of the way with short 
of which were running plays. The touchpasses to wide receivers Scott Henry
midfield. Again the Tartans ran the ball 
and ran the ball some more. Ten con
secutive rushes moved the Tartans all 
the way down to the Grove City six yard 
line where Mathias punched it in to put 
the Tartans up by three touchdowns 
again.
By halftime the Tartans had 178 yards 
rushing. Grusky, who didnt play in the 
second half due to a bruised knee, al
ready had 98 yards with Mathias right
Grove City answered with a drive of behind him at 74 yards. Later Dee said 
their own. A personal foul on the Tarthe line played well and the running 
tans helped put the Wolverines in Tarbacks played well which made his job 
tan territory. Then Hamsher moved his easy. He also said that when the line
plays well well win any 
game. Thats Carnegie 
Mellon football. Dee likes 
big plays, but admits that 
the teams problem early in 
the season was that they 
werent controlling the line 
and were relying on big plays 
to win. You cant win con
sistently on big plays, he 
said.
In the second half, the 
Tartans continued to pound 
the Grove City defense with 
a pair of running backs, jun
ior Lee Anton and freshman 
Christopher Neupaver. On 
the first drive of the half, 
Anton rushed five times and 
scored on a second effort 
from the three yard line. Dee 
also completed passes to 
Mathias, sophomore Buck 
Neel and sophomore Lance 
Thomas for medium gains 
during the drive. However, on the other 
side of the ball, the Tartan defense was
down, however, was scored when Dee and Tom Flenner. However, Hamsher 
rolled out of the pocket on fourth down ran it in himself from the four yard line 
and two to go from the four yard line and to cut the Tartan lead to 217. On the 
hit Grusky on a short pass in the end ensuing kickoff, freshman Rico Parrish 
zone. On the next play, Dee found junior returned the ball 34 yards all the way to
also dominating the Wolverines. On the 
next Grove City drive, Hamsher was 
sacked three times in a row, twice by 
sophomore Todd McManus and once by 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 10
Rugby club captures Midwest championship
By JUSTIN LAM
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The CMU Rugby dub picked up one 
of its biggest wins ever, as it defeated 
Marshall College ofWest Virginia, 15- 
5, Saturday to clinch the Midwest Ter
ritorial championship for Division II.
The Division II teams of the Mid
west Territory, one of five in the na
tion, come from Illinois, Michigan, In
diana, West Virginia, and Western 
Pennsylvania.
The winleft CMU undefeated in the 
last two semesters in Division II play, 
with the teams record now at 13-0 in 
the Division, and its overall record 14- 
1. This was Marshalls first defeat 
this year, leaving its current record at 
7-1 for the year.
CMU has outscored their opponents 
this year by a combined score of 327- 
74 in the last 14matches. Team Presi
dent and senior John Crowley said, 
We dominated in every facet of the 
game. Our backs ran over them 
[Marshall], and our forwards came 
together to push over everyone.
Indeed, CMUs style may have been 
a bit too pushy. CMU was penalized at 
least a dozen times and cited for many 
other infractions.
Mistakes, such as fumbling the ball 
forward, kept CMU from running up 
the score even higher.
Marshall never capitalized on CMUs 
mistakes, as CMU always maintained 
its dominance with superior field posi
tion.
The scoring did not begin until 20 
minutes into the first half, with senior 
Mike Keller putting in a penalty goal 
to make the score 3-0. Smooth transi
tion game from the forwards to the 
backs allowedsophomore Javier Rocha 
to score a try, making the score 8-0. 
Keller converted the try, making the 
score 10-0 at half time.
In the second half, junior Martin 
Salas ran the ball into the corner of the 
try zone, making the score 15-0 with 20 minutes remaining in the match. 
Marshall team captain Steve Green 
scored Marshalls only try with 10 
minutes remaining, making the final 
score 15-5.
This season the connection between 
backs and forwards has improved im
mensely. Senior BradLawrence, fresh
man Scott Weber, andRochaliad clean 
passing to other team members, al
lowing for more consistent running 
with fewer problems. Lawrence and 
Rocha lead the team in scoring, with 
nine tries between them in the last six 
matches.
CMUs success has silenced many 
doubts. Many teams within the league 
speculated that the CMU backs would 
not be able to recover from the gradu
ation of Bill Lurier and Mike De La 
Cruz.
Keller, one of the teams veterans, 
said This is my ninth semester, and 
this is by far the most talented team 
ever. We are a force to be reckoned 
with.
The talent of which Keller spoke 
may well be tested at the Collegiate 
National Championships.
The site of next springs champion
ships has been tentatively set for ei
ther Chicago or Dallas, though it is 
currently unclear whether or not these 
matches will include any Division II 
teams.
CMU shot down by Muhlenberg in playoffs
Mens soccer team plays to 0-0 draw, loses 3-2 in shootout

---------------------------------------------------

R.Ns CckCn  iCcnsIhs vsoopn  g ,pmstbsc ReeW
yekceot kuIc Gkulp .:ca5520
FOOTBALL, from page 9
junior E. J. Tsangaris. Then when 
the Wolverines punted the ball 
away, junior Robert Locke re
turned the punt 79 yards for the 
Tartans sixth touchdown of the 
afternoon. On the next Tartan 
drive, Dee completed a 16-yard 
pass to Neupaver which moved 
Dee into second place on the 
Carnegie Mellon all-time pass
ing yardage list. A few plays later, 
after a 17-yard Neupaver scam
per, Neel punched the ball in from 
the one yard line and the Tartans 
took a huge 48-7 lead.
In the fourth quarter, the Wol
verines gotback a couple of touch
downs on big plays. First, Henry 
caught a tipped pass from T.J. 
Rockwell and motored 64 yards 
for a Wolverine score. Then, after 
linebacker Scott Fraser inter
cepted a pass by junior David 
Soltysik, Rockwell threw a 26- 
yard touchdown strike to Grove 
Citys starting quarterback, 
Hamsher. However, the Tartans 
got the ball again and went right 
back to the ground game. 
Neupaver and Anton helped the 
Tartans move the ball into Wol
verine territory and then junior 
quarterback Keith Dickerson hit 
Neupaver for a 38-yard gain down 
to the Grove City 19 yard line. 
Three plays later, Neupaver ran 
it in from five yards out, extend
ing the Tartan lead to 55-20. 
Junior Cole Marino intercepted a 
Paul Hoback pass on Grove Citys 
next possession, and the Tartans 
ran out the clock. At the final gun 
the score was 55-20 in favor of 
the Tartans.
After the game I asked Neiss 
! how he liked catching balls this 
year instead of throwing them. 
He said it was just good starting 
again. Neiss, who has been a 
very productive receiver for the 
Tartans, initially wanted to play 
quarterback. I thought I was 
going to be quarterback for my 
four years here. Dee, however, 
beat him for the starting job four 
years ago and he was Dees 
backup until this year. It was 
tough being [a] backup for three 
; years, he said. This year, how1 ever, the Tartan coaching staff 
decided to move him to wide re
ceiver, where he has had a great 
year. He is third on the team with 
; 14 receptions and 213 yards re
ceiving. Neiss 
didnt have a re
ception Satur
day, although he 
did have a touch
down catch called 
back on an ille
gal block.
Dee finished 
the game 7 for 13 
with 82 yards 
passing and a 
touchdown. Dee 
is part of the very 
good group of 
graduating se
niors, and it was 
good to see these 
Tartans win 
their final home 
game.
Bassem El-Dasher/Tartan photographer 
Senior Chris Dee is second on CMUs all-time 
passing yardage list.
As Dee said, It was a nice way Mathias mshed for 87 yards and 
to leave Carnegie Mellon. I was two touchdowns, and Anton 
very fortunate to play with a great rushed for 44 yards and a touchgroup of guys. Im proud to be in 
this class.
But the Tartans still have one 
more game next week against 
Case Western Reserve Univerdown. Neupaver led the receiv
ers with 54yards. For Grove City, 
Hamsher was 12 of 16 for only 58 
yards and an interception while 
Rockwell was 5 for 6 for 121 yards
sity, and if the Tartans win they and two touchdowns. Henry led 
will share the UAA conference the receivers with 105 yards on 
title with Washington. What does eight catches.
Dee say about next week? Its With this victory the Tartans 
going to be a blowout. are 6-3 overall and 2-1 in the
The Tartans finished the game UAA. Carnegie Mellon has now 
with 367 yards rushing and 487 played 214 straight games withtotal yards while Grove City fin
ished with 242 total yards. 
Grusky led rushers with 98 yards, 
and next week he will need only 
73 yards to move into second place 
on the Tartans all-time rushing 
list. In addition, Neupaver rushed 
for 92 yards and a touchdown,
classified
ADOPTION
Caring couple eager to provide 
newborn with lots of love, security, and 
a happy home and a great future. 
Expenses paid. Please call Carol and 
Jerry anytime. 1-800-349-4452
Loving Caucasian couple seeking to 
adopt infant. Call 1-800-585-8014.
poR SALE
Computers & Parts - 66Mhz 486 
VESA:425 Mb Hard Drive, 4 &8 Mb 
, RAM, 1 Mb Diamond Accelerated LB 
VESA Video, 14".28dp 1024x768 Noni interlaced monitor, mouse, 3 hrs 
'training/tutorial. 2yr warranty. SI379 
&$1529. Delivery $25. 80Mhz-add 
SI 50. Also others, laptops, CD-ROM 
Mitsumi double speed installed $179. 
4Mb RAM $179, 540Mb WD HD $299, 
730Mb WD HD $359. Call 681-6621 
Ice Nine Computers, Oakland for 
Everything!
Dime Software: Football 101, NFL 
Database and forecast program $9.95. 
iOnly available at Classic Video, 418 S. 
Craig Street.
Ships or Land Tour companies. World 
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, 
etc.) Seasonal and Full-Time employ
ment available. No experience necessary. 
For more information call 1-206-634- 
0468 ext. C52361
Internet Whiz Wanted  I'm looking 
for someone who really knows the tricks 
& traps of navigating the InterNet and 
speaks fluent Netiquette-especially 
regarding the bulletin boards. 661-8120.
National Park Employment. Over 
25,000 openings! Excellent benefits Sc 
bonuses. For more information call: 1- 
206-545-4804 ext. N52361
"Spring Break 95**
America's #1 Spring Break Company! 
Cancn, Bahamas, Daytona & Panama!
110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 
15 friends and travel free! Earn highest 
commissions! (800) 32-TRAVEL
Wanted!!! Individuals and student
organizations to promote Spring Break 
'95. Earn substantial money and free 
trips. Call Inter-Campus programs 1-800- 
327-6013
WANTED
Do you get cold fingers? If your 
fingers turn white or blue when they 
get cold, or if you have been 
diagnosed with Raynaud's disease, 
you may be eligible for this University 
of Pittsburgh Medical Center research 
study. The study will compare the 
use of biofeedback training vs. 
medication to control symptoms of 
Raynaud's disease. Qualified 
participants will receive free 
treatment, a free physical exam, and 
reimbursement for travel expenses as 
part of the study. For details call 
624-0136.
fJOUSING
SERVICES
ShadysideLarge sunny studio. Airconditioning, dishwasher, ceiling fan, 
garbage-disposal, new floors, carpeting. 
Secure building. In great condition! 
$425/mo. Call 362-8381.
Squirrel Hill. Spacious, furnished, onebedroom apartment. Next to Bus. 
Washer & dryer. $495/mo includes all 
utilities. 422-3812 Available December.
International Students: DV-1 Greencard 
program by U.S. immigration.
Greencards provide permanent resident 
status. Citizens of almost all countries are 
allowed. For Info Sc forms: New Era Legal 
Services, 20231 Stagg St., Canoga Park, 
CA 91306, Tel: (818)-998-4425; (818) 
772-7168, Monday-Sunday 10a.m.- 11p.m.
TRAVEL
JOBS
Cruise Ships Now Hiring - Earn up to 
$2,000+/ month working on Cruise
Travel free! Spring Break 95! Guaran
teed lowest prices. Jamaica, Cancn, 
Bahamas, Florida. Book early Sc save $$$! 
Organize group travel free! 1 -800-426- 
7710
Classified Rates
1-20
words..........$5.00 / wk
21-50 
words..........$8.00 / wk
51-100 
words.......$10.00 / wk
Classifieds must be 
paid in cash or by 
check before the firstscheduled run date.
Due by 5 pm the 
Thursday before 
publication.
CMU wins first game with Edlnboro
By EMC APPIJ5WHITK
6 COREY ZINN
Special to The Tartan
The Carnegie Mellon hockey 
club won its first-ever game 
against Edinboro University 
this Saturday 8-3 on the 
strength of another strong third 
period.
CMU did not expect to find 
itself trailing such a new team, 
but Edinboro held the lead 3-2 
until late in the second period. 
Defensive breakdowns by CMU 
and some staunch goaltending 
by Edinboros goalie frustrated 
the Tartans andkeptthem from 
tying the score despite the fact 
that they outshotSdinboro 31-
7 in the first two periods.
However, in the third, the
Tartans came out composed and 
dominated play, allowing their 
opponent only one shot in the 
third period and scoring five 
goals themselves. Five CMU 
players recorded multiple point 
games, led by junior Roger 
Maddalenas three goals and 
two assists.
The Tartans took the lead 43 
seconds into the game as senior
captain John Cardillo took a pass 
from Maddalena and beat 
Edinboros goalie with a wrist 
shot from the left of the net. 
Edinboro answered five minutes 
later as CMU repeatedlyfailedto 
clear the puck from its own zone.
At 10:44, Edinboro stunned the 
Tartans by taking the lead on a 
power play goal. CMU answered 
a few minutes later asMaddalena 
blazed in and scored a crucial 
short-handed goal on a 
breakaway opportunity, Just 
three minutes later, the Tartans 
watched in disbelief as Edinboro 
regained the lead on a goal that 
knuckled into the top of the net 
after deflecting off the stick of a 
CMU defenseman.
CMU had many opportunities 
to tie the score in the remainder 
of the second period, but had to 
watch as their shots could not 
find the back of the net.
Finally, graduate student 
defenseman Tom Sullivan scored 
a critical morale-boosting goal 
thatallowedtheTartans to skate 
into the third period with a tie. 
After receiving a nice pass from 
Cardillo, Sullivan sliced a backhanded shot from in front of the
crease that arched over the 
Edinboro goaltender and into 
the top of the net.
The Tartans exploded after 
the second period intermission 
and never looked back. 
Maddalena gave the Tartans 
the lead for good at 4:37 as he 
skated across the crease and 
slipped the puck into the net. 
Just a few moments later, senior wing Greg Jessop chipped 
a rebound into the net to give 
the Tartans a two-goal lead. 
Maddalena completed his hat 
trick at 11:34. Sophomore wing 
Jim Buck and senior wing Dan 
Kodesh scoredSO seconds apart 
to complete the scoring for 
CMU.
CMU outshot Edinboro 22-1 
in the period and 53 -7 for the 
game. When asked to comment 
on the game, volunteer coach 
Fred Maddalena said, This is 
a third period team. We have 
had excellent third periods all 
year. We had to come from be
hind for the third time. This 
team has a lot of talent, and 
theyll be fine as soon as they 
start to finish plays, like they 
did tonight.
out being shutout and has 
clinchedits 20th consecutive win
ning season.
Next Saturdays game against 
Case Western Reserve Univer
sity will be the final game of the 
year for the Tartans. Kickoff will 
be at 1:30 pm.
ADMINISTRATION
Mike Mastroianni: IM Direc
tor, x8-2214; Mike Grzywinski: 
Asst. IM Director, 683-2938; Jim 
Saxon: President, x2-3872; Matt 
Williams: Vice President, x2- 
2490; Michelle Matta: Intramu
ral Secretary, X8-2053
IMPORTANT DATES
Friday: Soccer and 6-Person 
Volleyball playoff matchups 
available; 3-Person Volleyball 
schedules available.
Sunday: IM Soccer playoffs be
gin.
Monday, November 14: 6-Person Volleyball playoffs begin.
Tuesday, November 15: IM 
Board Meeting.
IM News
SOCCER
Playoff brackets will be in the 
IM Office on Friday, November 
11. Minor teams should be pre
pared to play a first round game 
on Sunday. Intermediate, Majors 
and Womens first-round games 
will be either Monday or Tues
day, November 14 or 15.
6-PERSON VOLLEYBALL
The last night of regular sea
son play is Wednesday. Teams 
should check the IM Office on 
Friday for playoff times. Cham
pionship games will be played on 
Thurday, November 17.
MISCELLANEOUS
All teams playing Darts, Racquetball, Bowling, Bridge, Back
gammon, and Chess are reminded 
to turn results into the IM Office 
within 24 hours of play. You can 
do this by voice mail (x8-2214or 
X8-2053), email (mzlO ormma8), 
or by stopping by the IM Office, 
Bridge and Backgammon sched
ules are completed.
OFFICIALS NEEDED
The Intramural Department is 
looking for officials for both Bas
ketball and Floor Hockey, i 
up now by calling IM Director 
Mike Mastroianni at x8-2214 or 
stopping by the IM Office.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
Bassem El-Dasher/Tartan photographer 
Head coach Rich Lackner shouts orders to his team from the sideline 
during CMUs win over Grove City.
682 - 7272 (PAPA)
4643 Baum Boulevard
Near North Craig Street
Delivers to CMU 
On and Off Campus!
Open Everyday 
11 am to 2 am
Large Pizza 
Only
$6.49 +TAX
Add pepperoni 
| (or any topping of your choice) for only 500 [_
FREE Breadsticks & Large 2 Toppings
*7.97+TAX
.J268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Ns CckCn  iCcnsIhs vsoopn  g ,pmstbsc ReeWNN
Rpduo2 neFD D:FFp2 w:cn dk:c:deF ieCpt
Quarterback Sneak
by John Weber
When I looked at the NFL 
schedule for Week 11, I just 
couldnt believe my eyes. Just 
about every game this coming 
weekend is a good matchup. So 
this is a good time to look back at 
the first half of the season and 
look ahead to the big games this 
weekend.
Lets start with the NFC, where 
the game for which everyone has 
been waiting will be played this 
Sunday. The defending champi
ons, the Dallas Cowboys, will 
travel to San Francisco to play 
the 49ers. The Cowboys still have 
the fight of a champion, but inju
ries are beginning to take their 
toll. Aside from injuries on the 
offensive and defensive lines, 
Troy Aikman has been knocked 
on the head a couple of times. 
Back in late September, I said 
that this would be about the time 
the Cowboys could start showing 
weaknesses. Teams like the 
49ers, Giants, and Redskins may 
in fact be able to exploit some of 
the Cowboys weaknesses. If this 
happens, well finally get to see 
how much of a coach Barry I 
inherited a Super Bowl team 
Switzer is. Meanwhile, the 49ers
have had some injuries of their 
own. The offensive line is banged 
up and Deion Sanders has a groin 
pull. However, two losses in the 
NFC championship game to the 
Cowboys is enough incentive for 
the 49ers; they should be ready 
for this game. Give the edge to 
the 49ers.
All those experts that pre
dicted the 49ers and Cowboys 
playing it out in the NFC champi
onship once again this year could 
be proven wrong by one of two 
NFC teams. First, there are the 
Vikings who have played surpris
ingly well this far with a young, 
hungry defense and a mature, 
well-structured offense. Warren 
Moon has been well-protected this 
year and seems to be fitting into 
the offense rather well. Then 
there are the Philadelphia Eagles, 
who are once again building a 
strong defense with players like 
Bill Romanowski and the Re
frigerator, William Perry. Their 
offense is also looking good, 
thanks to a healthy Randall 
Cunningham. A lot of their suc
cess, however, can be attributed 
to two classy coaches: defensive 
coordinator Bud Carson and head 
coach Rich Kotite. This weekend 
the Eagles host the AFC Centralleading Cleveland Browns. The 
Browns success is due to a bruis
ing defense and a consistent of
fense. Add to that special teams 
players like Eric Metcalf and the 
Browns become a tough team to 
beat. However, VinnyTesteverde 
and defensive lineman Michael 
Dean Perry have been hurt, so Ill 
give the edge to the Eagles.
mmwmm.m~  w * 
1 !
si
In the AFC, there are three big 
matchups. First, the Chargers 
will play the Chiefs in Kansas 
City. The Chiefs opponents have 
been able to exploit weaknesses 
on both sides of the ball. They 
have been able to slow down Joe 
Montana, Marcus Allen, and the 
rest of the Chiefs offense; al
though, they have not been able 
to stop them. The scarier part for 
Chiefs fans is that opponents 
have been able to neutralize Neil 
Smith and Derrick Thomas and 
score a lot of points on the Chiefs. 
The Chiefs main concern this 
Sunday will be Stan Humphries. 
Humphries makes the Charger 
passing game work which gives 
Natrone Means running room. 
Without Humphries, the Charg
ers are only an average team at 
best. Since the Chiefs are at home 
and Humphries is banged up, the
edge goes to Kansas City.
Finally, the Steelers are host
ing the Bills, and the Dolphins 
are hosting the Bears. The 
Steelers play incredibly at home 
on Monday Night Football, and 
that is why they have the edge. 
Rod Woodson, Greg Lloyd and 
Barry Foster are all injured in 
some capacity, which is going to 
hurt their chances the rest of the 
way. Even if the Steelers can beat 
the Bills this Monday, the rest of 
their schedule is not going to be 
easy. The Bills seem to be finding 
their playoff form early. With 
their sizable victory over the 
Chiefs, they reminded the NFL 
that their ship hasnt yet sunk. 
The Dolphins still lead the AFC 
East at the halfway point, but 
they are the same old Dolphins 
again this year (Dan Marino, 
Bryan Cox, Irving Fryar), with
the exception that they have de
veloped a running game. Whether 
they run or not, the Dolphins 
offense should have no problem 
with the Bears, who have devel
oped problems everywhere these 
last few weeks.
For the record, Week 9 was just 
about average. I picked three of 
five games, running my record 
for the year to 19-16 (54.3%).
Top Five Picks for 
Week 11
1. Dallas at San Francisco
Lets get ready to RUMBLE! 
This is going to be a huge game. 
Take the 49ers in a tough one. 
28-21.
2. Buffalo at Pittsburgh 
(Monday Night)
I have to take the Steelers at
home on Monday Night Football. 
Bill Cowher has never lost on 
MNF. Steelers 23-20.
3. San Diego at Kansas City
Revenge will be sweet for the 
Chiefs. Theyre ready to move up. 
Chiefs 20-7.
4. Cleveland at Philadelphia
The Eagles will win the close 
one. Cleveland is no pushover, 
but the Eagles have what it takes. 
Eagles 24r-22.
5. Chicago at Miami
The Dolphins should handle the 
struggling Bears with ease. Don 
Shula hasnt lost his touch. Dol
phins 28-13.
John Weber is a senior civil 
engineering major.
Soccer team falls 
in first round game
PLAYOFFS, from page 9
I thought when we got them into penalty kicks, we would do okay, 
he said. We gave two young kids experience by shooting first, and 
thats tough. This is what makes teamsto lose a big game like this 
and then come back stronger.
Gaudioso was very happy with his goalkeeper, Warren, who 
finished with 10 saves. In my book, Dans the best weve seen, said 
Gaudioso. We knew how good he was, and I expected this out of him. 
Id be surprised if 
he wasnt at least 
the all-conference
Carnegie Mellons play also im
pressed Muhl
enbergs coach, Jeff 
Tipping. By the 
time you get to this 
stage of the tour
nament, youre 
playing against all 
good teams, and 
Carnegie Mellon 
proved that they 
were an excellent 
team, he said.
[They were] very, 
very well organized 
and well disci
plined ... theyre not 
an easy opponent.
I certainly think 
theyve got nothing 
to be ashamed of. I 
thought they playMatthew Solitro/Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
ed very well. Head coach Nick Gaudioso (white jacket) watches
Muhlenberg was CMUs game with Muhlenberg, 
especially impressed with Warren. This guy [Warren] played unbe
lievably, said the opposing goalie, Moser. He held his team in the 
game.
In spite of the disappointing finish, the Tartans were satisfied with 
their play. I think it was our best showing of the season, said 
Buelow. We played to the other teams level, which is a higher level 
than our own.
Overall, Gaudioso was pleased with his teams performance. They 
hung in there, said Gaudioso. A couple of our guys were pretty sick.
think we showed that we can play, and that was important.
1 like the faet that QUALCOMM to 
him by technical people like fr. J."
fi
Andy Cox, BSEE Brown University 
85, knows a superstar when he 
sees one. # I learned about Dr.
Jacobs from one of my professors, he recalls,
"then later about Dr. Viterbi, the man who 
invented the Viterbi Decoder. Turns out they 
started their own company in San Diego. #
Andy has been with QUALCOMM for nearly 
five years. Hes seen it grow from close to 
100 employees to more than 1,700 today. # Our 
success isn't just from developing better technologies
but also from creating products that sell. Were going places fast. # QUALCOMM 
products and systems include the highly successful OmpiTRACS satellite-based 
mobile communications system, CDMA-based cellular phones, Personal 
Communications Systems (PCS), low earth orbit (LEO) satellite communication 
system and much more. # Another big plus for Andy is QUALCOMMs Flex-Time 
policy. He can set his own hours, making it easier for him to hoop it up after 
work with his favorite sport. # If your major is Electrical/Electronics Engineering, 
Computer Science or Computer Engineering, be sure to attend our special 
preview the night before our on-campus interviews. You may also mail, fax or 
send us your resume/transcripts by Internet. QUALCOMM, Manager of College 
Relations, 6455 Lusk Blvd., San Diego, CA 92121, fax (619) 658-2110. Internet: 
jobs@qualcomm.com Or call our Jobs Hotline at (619) 550-8888. Equal 
Opportunity Employer.
Attend a special preview of the
QUALCOMM story at 
7:00 PM, November 9, 
Student Center Room 208
Qualcomm
INCORPORATED

---------------------------------------------------

At $8,395, you 11 kave 
plenty of money left for gas. 
At AA mpg/city,
you migigktnot need it.
Tk e newest G e o. ^Letro, jrom $8y395*
bV1pcku .uIsp ipcs eo fPA ptc. jS1PG uD AA :o ckp d:ca eo 2 49 uo ckp k:ikwea.
? A wekkeoca dulpkt ^Spcku DkuC uop po2 cu ckp opmc.
Ao2 c:F ec t w:ck ou 2p2Idc:bFp. . . zpku. . . ouop wkectuplpk.* ?
? ^S.pcku duCpt w:ck D:ktcc:Cp bIapk ett:tceodp. ?
? Gpc cu kouw ckp opwptc Gpu. bS_pcku. Ac auIk .kplkuFpc/Gpu 2peFpk s. ?
? We oc cu kouw Cukp? G:lp It e deFF. 2 ~800 - G e t - 2 ~ K Jl o . ?
.nu rf hSfb
*58,695 M.S.R.P. of .Metro LS; Coupe as skown. JVLS.R.E includes dealer prep and destination ckarge. Tax, license and optional equipment addition.il.fSee your dealer for terms of iKis limited warranty.XJp to 5500 down payment assistance ior qualified first-time new car buyers financing witli GM_AC. Chevrolet and Geo arc registered trademarks and Jvictro is a trademark of tke GMCorp. 1994 GM Corp. All Rigkts Reserved. Buckle up, America! MT

---------------------------------------------------

3
p ^'tiber 7,199^

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Rain Magie
words: Margaret Puskar 
design: Stacie Pennypacker
Merman
words: Sreyas Srinivasan 
design: sycamore
Maritime Dreams
words: John Muir 
design: Simone Taylor
Somebody
words: Pratik Patel 
design: Lisa Vitalbo
Air
words: Eugene Kuo 
design: Chris Graefe
Learning to Swim
words: Ryan Donovan 
design: Lisa H. Kim
Halloween in Hydro Quebec
words: Ed LoPresti 
design: Lauren Heinz
Girl Drowning' '' W ' list
design: Ken Kraemer and Derek Wahila
Midnight Swim
words: Gretel Gaal
Hell3
words: Shannon Gibney 
design: Michael Lemme

---------------------------------------------------

rain magic 
by margaret puskar
would you laugh 
if i said
let's go out into the rain 
and roll around 
on the cool grass, 
laughing as we squish 
through the slick mud. 
could you imagine 
our wet hands 
slipping, sliding 
over our slender bodies 
tangled.
the rain would make me 
beautiful 
as i wash you 
with my salty kisses, 
would you go 
if you knew

---------------------------------------------------

Imbibition had led the roots of onion grass to siphon up dew, 
up into the stalks, then beyond to the point of the blade. 
Today, dawn finds subtle, wet reasons webbed in my hair 
and a sky that is secretive, repressed.
Gaping upward, I wait, smiling, for the shattering.
(When the sea comes we must be willing to embrace 
the shards as they slant down.)
I know of no other planet whose hard core is drowning, 
whose continents are fated to sink.
Today, every day, there is no lack of reasons to walk barefoot, 
alone.
mm

---------------------------------------------------

maritime dreams
maritime dreams pull me along
powerful tides pull me away
from my coastal sanctuary where i remained
withdrawn from the sway
of tempting waves that tantalize
and the teasing saltwater spray
of the oceans primeval call
yet i resist the beckoning voice
not to be lured into the deep
by brazen fog horns sounding aloud 
and lighthouses illuminating my way
far from the maddening crowd
calling, calling to me
and yet ifear i am to proud
to admit defeat and surrender to 
the age old calling of the sea 
i feel myself caught up
in theluring me deeper and deeper
where nothing is as it would seem 
a world of cold and darkness 
where mysteries teem 
and the darkness ifind intriguing
so i surrender, to my maritime dreams.
undertowof a dream
-----Spere

---------------------------------------------------

somebody
underwater i went one day 
no air was there for me to h r e a t he 
did n o t fin d anyone 
even the fish had nothing to say 
right here and right there 
whatever i looked at
everyday
r u lining in t li e water
needed to go 
everywhere
on the surface oftlie water 
making its way thro u g h
boldly i made a leap
o n ward
decided to embrace it
P rat i k Patel

---------------------------------------------------

3. iadaJU-r. and Mrs. John Smith are happy to announce the engagement of their son Robart and Lis. Ann Peters.
He remembers the wedding announcement, their misspelled namesand the picture they included of themselves as children,floating in the air above a trampoline, flying.
Lnn
Y.
He looks at tlrs. Anne Petersnow, through the water,hair free above her back in strands of a flag blowing in the breeze, face hiddenbehind a black mask, the tank behind her supplying air.He breathes and watches as bubbles of his breath breakinto blue, white globes floating away and to the surface.The sounds of the mechanical breaths are odds the bubbling exhales, the regulated intakes.He floats above the sea bed as high or as low as he wantsalthough the air weighs heavy on his back.He waves to his wife and thinksshe smiles.
ou should go to Florida.Youre both still young and theres so much to do!"They had planned on Bermuda of Jamaica for their honeymoon, but his motherconvinced them to stay on American soil.After all, you never know what those people carry," she explained with a knowing nod although she had never left Stubensville.Crazy things," she continued, loweringher voice.
nne had always expressed an interest in scuba diving,and Robert's mother sent for brochures of various places which offered scuba certification in Florida: Crystal River, Uanatee Springs, and Gennie Springs. Robert was reluctantto try,placingarticles of divers who had died in oceans around the worldon the refirgerator door.
-We11 start diving in a pool!
I just don t like the idea of breathing that fake air.its not fake.Just compressed.
Robert s mother made the decisionfor him giving the bride and groom a scuba course and a pair of plane tickets to Florida for a wedding gift
T
theyenterthe first cave, he glances aroundat the fish that seem to be caught f floating in the water like air.It is odd, thinking of the water a but it surrounds him as the air on land, and it is blue like the sky, although thicker, slowing his movements.True, he cannot breathe directly,but the bubbles convince him of the air trappedwithin.
If only he could breathe directly,
without the use of a mechanical pump!He watches the fish, envying themfor breating the water as he envies the birds for flying.
ow they were finally in Florida 
on their first solodives.Although they had just received their certifications,Anne had convinced Robert to do a cave dive.Robert remembered the warnings against cave dives, especially for beginners, but had acquiesced, hoping to please his new wife.As they prepared to fall back into the ocean,Anne smiledand pointed her thumb up to the sky. Robert followed the motion to see birdshigh above them, sailing through the 
he water is cold, air.colder than he expected it to be,and on his first dive alone in the Atlantic Ocean,he feels the salt waterstinghis skin, pressing into him.His ears feel the pressureas water forces its way further, and his fears of being crushedby the water pressure return.As he dives further into the water, he looks upat the underbellies of boats and fish like cloudsfloatingacross darkened sky.
air,

---------------------------------------------------

me waves
him onwardand he follows;trailing
obert is glad  ^ a18 th* ,allS\that his wife convinced him ^Iia8^ne3, . himself as part of theto dive,the freedom cave;R
. a rock on the wall,ox movement. ..... . and thinks to himselfuninhibited
A,
that he is no different.by gravity._ . , Beneath the water,He taints ox the weightlessness^ ^  he can move,tnat astronauts must leel,. . but on the surface.11 oat mghe isabove the earth in the airlockedno longer, .. in his routine,breatnable for scarcity. , . . . forever caughtne motions He BVes his bands through the water, .ne notions o in two-dimensional paths,to her air gauge and he consults his, ripples of movementfinally deciding brushingthat there is enough air to continue further. away the sandShe agrees, on tlle i-loor without touching it.excited He considers this power and laughs,
that Robert is finally enjoying himself, sending a thousand bubbles toand surprised the surface,
at the change the water hasinduced in him.
i obert moves surface,ahead of Anne,the -eugene kuoeager to continue, ^his tank weighing heavy on his back.,  bodyBexore him,histhe cave opens wider,... fromentxcxng, . . . .. ... breathhim xnto itsell.unendingHe does not notice the different paths . , a single,he t ake s. ,, the bubbles tracingUnaware of the maze , .in his lungs,he explores, S^asually, he looks again feeling the air expandinghe glances back only at hi3 gouge he rlses _
to make sure his lie follows, Surprised to see ho much further it Aod a3 hs dies,but not to remember where he has been. ha3 fallen. he knows he is dying.
He stops and turns around but as it does,motioning to return to the surface. His brain is slow to remember,hey turn He thinks to himself, no longer,around to search Conserve! Conserve!" but is breathingfor the entrance that has disappeared unable to tell hi3 Bif ls 3urprl3ed to i1d4 tl3ellunderwater,
with their discovery of the cave! His hands wave hen he opens them,ana as they find themselves meaningless through the water. He closes his eyes to sleep and,further lost, dryljls aalt 00 Ms >klH_they breathe more lUickly, and 3alJd arBS his bodiijsending streams of bubbles The SUJ1 ar3 hls noeifrom their mouths. lDto greeI1 Tegetatioll.
Hobert lets Anne lead, dissolvesfollowing her trail through the caves, ad the blu0 l)ater
watching the precious air through the regulator,
she expelled. the water that has seeped into the empty tankHe tries to hold his breath, unaware of
but finds that he pants He feels that he is breathing in a greenhouse,after a few moments, The tank is almost empty, and the air has become damp,using more air than if he had breathedWe is lost, swimming blindly, regularly. XXHis air is near zeroand he breathes more heavily,sucking the last few ounces from the of air left in her tank<
*ank* There should be plentySoon, Anne always breathed conservatively,the tank is empty telling himself that it's just exhaustion.and he can hear the hollow metallicto consult the air gauge,sounds reflected through the water. His breathing comes hard, but he refusesHis breathing is labored. another caveAhead, bubbles continue to rise from the moath oI the oaTCi 6ut ila4a himself in
Anne s tank. He swims towards what he thinks is
sucking the breath from her lung3.Hshe non cannot,
eEpobert wishes again that he could breathe the water, XXe breathes the air that
sucking air from-where there appears to be none; or that he could breathe the bubbles of air that Anne wastes, froa her nQuth tQ hs ov/n#
giving her breath to the fish. transferring his wifes regulatorHe becomes jealous of her, sharing her air with slimy creatures she does He droplJ talfe aJJd his tajjkj
not even know. and the blood dissipates in the water.She married him! She might as well sleep with his brother. slicing the threads with his knife,At least then there would be some connection, instead of whoring with fish. He ab0Ut
Bis hand reaches for the diving knife entangling him in their fabric,around his ankle and around him,feels it plunge t[|irl
into his carves of redwife's skin.

---------------------------------------------------

^s/aves forye<
Learning to s
The surfaC(? . 
fl0undering/ f/} S^.
^ <# 
J <Z,O -o
l/l 03
^b-Diw^o'e
slc you to leai/,o
-J**v\O
ro CD
ViIR
S', ^^uo UM0JPe \% C\^*></<* ^SdQsieqiz7- {
JdLUUUlMS
H/.a^ggjq A||e3i
Ryan Donovan

---------------------------------------------------

Halloween in Hydro-Quebec

---------------------------------------------------

ir! Drownin
by Emily Pihlquist
n a sea of pleading faces, 
asking eyes, demanding voices 
no One throws a circle of hope your way.
I\s tentacles pull you under,
hold your breath, open your eyes,
bear the stinging salt 9 f
and help the J3 1 T 3. 11 ll cl
ubmersed, they tear at you 
from the inside out, 
feeding off your love
till you hate
the vast, brown water of 
they swim.
desperation
Teachthem to float
so you can wash ashore
Let me be your air.

---------------------------------------------------

in singular blackness.
still and close.
I feel you behind me.
Turning, arms tighten
and night-cold lips cover my own.
As we sink into the darkness,
I don't know if we're drowning 
(flying.
Gretel Gaal

---------------------------------------------------

Hey hey it's your LAST CHANCE of the 
semester to submit to Dossier! No theme 
this time; write about anything you like 
(except, perhaps, brown fish...) Take 
advantage of this forum to get your lit
erature published. Poems, prose and 
short fiction are all welcome. Deadline 
for the last issue of fall will be Tuesday, 
November 22 by 5pm. We will circulate 
on December 5.
We're also planning a discussion/crit. 
type meeting for designers and writers. 
Its purpose will be to discuss themes and 
issues surrounding the graphic design of 
literature. All are welcome. Check your 
email for a time and place. Sounds good, 
No?

---------------------------------------------------

leaning into each other it 
is easier to forget this day,
the first day they pump mother 
full of medicine, full of drugs
that cleanse through death;
fell fell'it fell out the smaller
Shannon Gibney
^Sm^l^^Beystammers. and they shiver
 > together, again watching the thick
ring of hair turn to black
mounds in white hands.
david pulls brother flat
into his chest and lies silent,
returning to his dream
returning to trade mother his third
breast for her absent one.
david feels sweat drip
into his eyes upon waking from
a dream where^he held three 
breasts, heavy and round and
swelling in his hands.
sheltering his chest he 
feels only empty air,
the warm fullness gone 
his dream is broken
by a shattering noise.
something crashed, - 
some weepy, crouched thing in the
deoi^ay,
tonv&y tears it hovers close 
and hugs david, hugs brother.

---------------------------------------------------

a0<jopet'frin,erpr/on?K,
,rVWe^ *%
^ *
 cf^ % i'o'^ V,
*wv euIdeas o" %%
thouf - .
s,n9 the sentiment?
^0tc
</ ^brother was Oof^ -
*>*** a\sofe hote1' *he fZ0f^Oe//
A****00 .s^S'USttaSt'n!3 eS<>SS^yearShlsseo^ 
<< <0^ a* <' s0mething and sp/as/, ^ - m),se/f and he_ in
^ ' a0d no' rescuing hl^fa Qn V/*,- so^e-^v ^ ,.o^e get h,m' scps water# <, ^ 6 ac.V'em|M/nl0 '%. +*<, shneks, sTEVE^' CV,.,
 y /* ^ ^ CnX' X.^^^^Per, W* 3 p^e&0^^ \ | %rsteaml(l9^^V;;o^ethroughthe
\ %Mrerne^>^'  AP-"S' *>> - \N',t./. e'niaid eV^ ^ad planned to swim,
had dived; We ^Uurc"

---------------------------------------------------

Eggert/Tartan
Expulsion myth discredited
volume 89, Issue 9ynp yekceo.ekopi:p SpFFuo Wo:lpkt:caP:cctbIkinPpootaFleo:e wulpCbpk Nvv4
Tartan Photographer
arkness encompasses much of the steam tunnels, adding to the mystery as well as the 
anger. There Is often no telling where certain passages lead.Tartan Photographer
Some of the literature down in the basement of the gym indicate why the steam tunnels are 
considered to be such a dangerous place.
PSW n:tcuka kptct bpFuwArt Co-Editor
1. This is a large grate in the side of the hill behind Hamerschlag Hall. The entrance is like a gigantic ventilator that swings open; best available knowledge says this entrance is locked.2. This grate is also locked. It opens up into the cleaner room down in Schiag. The tunnel to which it leads was originally used to help provide CMU's steam supply.3. Not much is known about this entrance because it is securely locked. The entrance is also from the cleaner room area.4. This entrance which will take you to the iWarp lab is locked and alarmed, so don't even try it.5. Sorry, another alarm here. It's on the fourth floor of Wean In case you were wondering.6. and 7. Down on the A or B level of Doherty is a hole in the ceiling. Drop through it, and you should find yourself In the tunnels.8. On the B level of Doherty rests the most frequently used entrance to the steam tunnels. It's always locked, but If youre creative, you may be able to find a way in.9. Walking across the cut you may encounter this metal grate which contains a ladder for your convenience.10. and 11. Rumor is that these are grates In the floors of Baker Porter Hall.12. Alarmed! Don't even try it. This is the one leading to the bookstore.13. Just another grate down in the basement of CFA.14. These doors lead out of Margaret Morrison right by the elevators. You didn't hear it here, but they're frequently left open.15. A hole  not much else to say.16. If you have any laundry to do, this entrance will bring you to some washing machines in the basement of the gym.17. You may be able to get the plywood off this entrance, but dont count on it.
By ERIC J. SALZMAN
Tartan Features Editor
The disciplinary process for anyone caught in the steam tunnels 
is stated rather vaguely in the student handbook. Because of the 
danger to all who enter them, the steam tunnels are locked and 
anyone found in the tunnels will be subject to serious disciplinary 
action. Campus Police is responsible for keeping the tunnels 
locked and apprehending anyone who trespasses in them, says 
the 1993-1994 student handbook. There is no mention of expul
sion in the clause, yet a common misconception on campus is that 
any student who gets caught in the steam tunnels immediately 
gets expelled.
Under the section describing the general disciplinary process, 
the handbooks state that Carnegie Mellon reserves the right to 
dismiss a student at anytime for infraction of the rules.... Respon
sibility for student discipline at Carnegie Mellon is delegated by 
the president to the dean of student affairs. Hence, the stand 
Dean Murphy takes on the issue becomes awfully relevant to the 
frightened student who just got caught in the depths of Carnegie 
Mellons forbidden dungeons.
We would never expel someone summarily without giving
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
\Tartan Senior Staffwriter
 The steam tunnels are a myste"rious, fascinating part of our cam
pus. They have a life to them
selves, with white-shrouded 
steam pipes funneling the life 
Iblood of the University through a 
ihidden network of underground 
funnels linking almost every cam
pus building. Steam, water, and 
^electricity flow through the tun
nels, which also carry cables for 
the telephone and computer net
works.
Hard Hats Required At This 
Joint is often a code phrase for 
steam tunnel entrances. Behind 
.one Hard Hats Required door 
in the basement of Doherty Hall 
is one of the most popular en
hances to the steam tunnels.
I| Inside the door sleeps a janitors 
punge, seemingly abandoned for 
Ujecades. In a small boiler room 
'off the main lounge lurks a
Westinghouse electrical vault and 
detailed plans describing the 
changes and repairs to the steam 
tunnels that have taken place 
over the last few years.
These plans show how the elec
trical system has been updated, 
said John, a student who wished 
to remain anonymous. It looks 
like the steam tunnels are get
ting real lights.
Historically, the steam tunnels 
have been viewed as illicit, dark, 
dangerous places often linked 
with rituals and pranks. Theyre 
not really that dangerous unless 
youre careless, said John. You 
just have to be careful of live 
steam coming out of the pipes in 
some areas.
Concerns about safety may 
have been one reason why the 
University closed the steam tun
nels to students about 50 years 
ago. Before Carnegie Tech merged 
with Margaret Morrison, stuPlease see STEAM, page L3
them a chance to have their side heard, Murphy said.
According to Murphy, there is no special disciplinary process for 
students caught in the tunnels. The first step is to talk to the 
person to make sure that the accusation is justified. If both sides 
agree that the student was at fault, there are two possibilities: 
The issue can go before a committee made up of two faculty 
members and two students. This committee then decides on a
Please see TUNNEL, page L3
Tartan PhotographerYoull never know when youre walking over a steam tunnel. This one 
runs the length of the CFA parking lot.
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editorsource: Eric Moore

---------------------------------------------------

LwNs CckCn  iCcnsIhs vsoopn  g ,pmstbsc ReeW
SALIMS
S:22Fp fetcpko eo2 Gkppk Fuu2 
405 .pockp Alp. h 62N8NN0
Lunch deliveries to CMU, Office Parties, and Party Trays
Lewis' Hair Salon
Shadyside 
Tanning  Nails  Waxing * Facials 
We Carry
Aveda ? Paul Mitchell ? Matrix  Nexxus 
Sebastian * Tri ? Redkin * Gold well 
Image * Sukeslia * GPi  Skincare  Makeup 
Open Seven Days a Week and Most Evenings 
813 South Aiken 
6X2 - 4W>3 
Save $4.00 on Haircuts 
9 am to 2 pm Monday thru Friday 
(with select stylist)
Health Services tries to satisfy all students
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Personnel Manager
We all know where Morewood E Tower 
is. Site of our friends dorm rooms, its a 
building that stands tall and is fre
quented by many students on campus. 
However, if youre going to E-Tower to 
make a trip to Health Services, it usu
ally means youre not in the best of 
moods. Point blank, it usually means 
youre sick. But Health Services is a 
friendly place, and may do more than 
you think it does.
Health Services operates a lot like 
your family doctors office, said director 
of Health Sevices Anita Barkins. They 
deal in general medicine, gynecology 
and contraceptive counseling, allergy 
injections, emergency care, and sutur
ing. One thing that helps the college 
students commonly 
small budget is that 
there are no charges 
for visits to see health 
care providers, said 
Barkin.
Health Services is 
only open during the 
week. They operate 
Monday, Tuesday, 
and Thursday from 8am to 7pm; Wednes^^1 
days from 9:30 to 
7:00pm; and Fridays from 8 to 5pm. 
Around campus, there are often com
plaints that Health Services is not open 
later or on weekends.
Barkin said that in the past they tried 
staying open on Saturday mornings, but 
people were not coming in with emer
gencies. It was mostly students com
plaining of sore throats because they 
had hit the end of a busy week. Barkin 
said that we are lucky to be on a campus 
that has easy access to emergency care 
only five minutes away.
For Health Services (HS), most of their 
traffic falls on Mondays and Fridays. 
This is the result of students who have 
health concerns coming off the weekend, 
and students who want to be seen before 
it starts. On these big days, Barkin said 
they make every effort to see everybody 
who has a concern.
HS has extended their hours in the 
past. When HS stayed open after 7pm 
there was no traffic between 7 and 8pm. 
Therefore, HS stays open until 7pm at 
the latest and Barkin said most of the 
traffic occurs between 5-7pm. Barkin 
thinks the hours are sufficient and effec
tive, and said, I would rather have 
adequate staff during the week rather 
than stretch staff out where youre not 
providing the best service.
Medical emergencies that occur over 
the weekend are usually handled by 
campus police and/or the Emergency 
Medical Service. Barkin said that if you 
have a true emergency that cant be 
handled Monday through Friday, you 
should be at the hospital anyway. 
Health Services tries to provide care 
in many areas. One service not widely 
known on campus is free, confidential 
AIDS testing. State law requires preand post>-test counseling, which is pro
vided by the HS staff. The counselor 
conducting the test is the only person 
who will know your name. HIV testing 
records are kept separate from others, 
and the results are destroyed after they
I would rather have adequate staff 
during the week than stretch staff out 
where youre not providing the best 
service.
Anita Barkin (Health Services director)
are given.
Students have often asked what HS is 
equipped to handle, or how big of an 
emergency they can accommodate.
Barkin said that each case is going to be 
different, and they will evaluate in terms 
of whether it fits our practice in terms of chitis and I needed to be put on medicaprimary care. Then HS will ask, Whats tion immediately. Someone then asked
to HS, and they would deal with the 
situation.
Another question posed by students 
around campus is: Why does HS run on 
an appointment-based system only? One 
student who asked not to be named said 
she went to HS because she was suffer
ing from an infection.
When I went to HS, I asked them 
where the walk-in clinic was, and they 
told me there wasnt one, and they 
couldnt see me right away because I 
didnt have an appointment. Barkin 
said HS used to run on a no-appointment system but said, if we can give 
them an appointment, they dont waste 
time sitting in a waiting room. The 
student said, I was able to make an 
appointment for that day.
The staff of HS includes five regis
tered nurses, one full-time nurse practi_____________ tioner, one part-time
nurse practitioner 
(Barkin), and a physi
cian who is part of the 
Mercy Hospital staff, 
who is in Monday, 
Wednesday, and Fri
day afternoon. The staff 
does all they can as far 
as diagnosing patients. 
Brad Fittz, a sophowmmmmmmmmm more Materials Science 
ana J&ngmeenng maj or 
said that last year, he was very sick and 
had trouble breathing. I went to Health 
Services and told them I couldnt breathe. 
They told me I had a cold, to take Sudafed, 
and Id be fine in a week. I went back a 
week later, and they told me I had bron-I il H 
SVC s.Att. 'fou W**- voi
the most efficient way to handle the 
problem? A great deal of this comes 
from questions of timing. If a patient is 
in need of immediate blood work, HS has 
to ask whether or not their lab can get 
results in a reasonable amount of time, 
whether it is more efficient to send the 
student to an emergency room. Barkin 
said, A lot of it depends on the condi
tion.
Health Services is equipped to handle
me why I hadnt come in sooner.
Barkin responded by saying, some
times illnesses start as a virus, but a 
bacteria can cause a second infection. 
Its up to the student, then, to make the 
appointment to come back. Fittz said 
that after he was diagnosed as having 
bronchitis, they provided me with the 
proper medication and I was fine within 
a week.
Barkin said that there is a misconcases of acute distress for asthmatics. If ception that student health services are
someone came in with a cut, HS would 
evaluate the cut and see whether or not 
they were equipped to handle it. If some
one were experiencing chest pains and 
needed x-rays, HS would send the pa
tient to the Faulk Clinic, part of the 
University of Pittsburghs Medical Cen
ter. Results of the x-ray would go back
less qualified... our staff participates in 
continuing education programs. These 
programs, said Barkin, are ongoing. 
Members of the staff are sent to confer
ences, and three of the nurses are certi
fied by the American College Health 
Association.
All staff members have experience in
emergency care and some nurses have 
previously worked for Planned Parent
hood. Barkin said, we have qualified 
providers here. The reason such trained 
staff works on a college campus, said 
Barkin, is because they like college stu
dents ... [and] theyre here because this 
is what they like to do.
From July 1993 to June 1994, there 
were 15,192 visits to the Health Center. 
For this year, from July to September 
30, over 3,251 students have visited 
Health Services. HS makes available 
survey cards to ask whether or not pa
tients are satisfied with the care they 
have received. The satisfaction rates for 
the last three years have been 88 per
cent, 92 percent, and 95 percent. Barkin 
said, usually, were way, way up there 
... [but] were always looking to do bet
ter. Barkin stressed the importance of 
filling out the cards, because at the end 
of the year they sit down and read each 
one.
One of the recent changes in opera
tions has come from comments on sur
vey cards. Students were not satisfied 
with seeing a nurse, and being told to
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Ec-y j 
make another appointment to see the I 
doctor. This was a result of having a! 
secretary or receptionist answer tfe! 
phones in the office.
Now, students talk to a nurse right 
from the beginning, said Barkin. Anurse 
makes the appointments because sheis 
able to make decisions about the level cf 
provider. Fittz said I was sick recently 
and I called and was able to talk withi 
nurse, tell her my symptoms, and slifc 
gave me advice over the phone. I didnl 
need to come in.
The most common reason for visits 
last year were problems with eyes, ears, 
nose, and throat. The second was viral 
infections, the third was skin problems, 
and the fourth was womens health. HS 
gives presentations to organizations likfe 
ROTC, fraternities, and Freshman Ori
entation. For specific health questions, 
HS keeps files with pamphlets; you can 
walk in and pick them up.
Although we hope you dont have 
frequent Health Services anytime soon, 
at least you know that the small office to 
the comer of Morewood E is there 
help.
geCtuIsbpeot skul:2p lek:pca uD dnu:dpt Duk 2:oopk
Old Man Donner
by Jason Roth
Last weeks column came out 
perfectly, so instead of raging 
against the system, Ill get to 
alienating some of my readers 
right away. I promised some 
time ago to do a column show
ing how to put on a feast.
But Im gonna do one better; 
no, two betteryoure getting 
two feasts and a mid-week meal 
out of one purchase:
A Big-Ass Ham
Ill say here that Im not 100 
percent convinced that meat
consumption is a good idea; my 
doubts arise entirely from an en
vironmental perspective, but, 
well, Im simply happier eating 
the stuff. Its darned yummy (lit
erally a hundred times more fla
vorful than green veggies) and 
thatll do for now. Therefore, on 
to ham feast number one:
Baked Ham
Ingredients: a ham, dummy!
Go ahead and get a big ham, 
with or without bone (it should go 
without saying that it mustnt be 
canned), and bake it, covering 
with pineapples and juice or apple 
juice or whatever; many like 
cloves as well. Figure 350 de
grees for 20 minutes per pound. 
Thats about it. It should come 
out tender and juicy.
Invite many friends and have 
potatoes (you should have a vari
ety of recipes at hand by now) and 
veggies. Save the bone and ex
cess fat. You should also have 
lots of ham for:
Black Bean Soup with 
Ham1 or 2 cans of black bean soup 
(Progressos good) 
chopped onion 
chopped ham 
minced garlic 
oregano & basil
red wine vinegar about 5 min
utes before its done. Best served 
with sour cream.
Of course this is all possible 
without the ham, but the ham 
does add a lot of flavor. And you 
should still have enough left over 
for feast number two:
Why does everything taste like 
chicken? Because most things, like 
chicken, have no fat
Saut the onions and garlic in 
olive oil (as if for spaghetti sauce), 
adding ham, small amounts of 
spices, and mucho pepper.
Once this is going, throw in the 
beans, add more pepper, and al
low to simmer, covered, at least 
15 minutes. Thats really about 
it. The more you simmer, the bet
ter. Also, it improves exponen
tially if you add red wine or even
Soup from Scratch
package of dried beans: 
lentil, split pea, or 15 bean
For those of you who wondered 
why I was guiding you towards 
canned beans before, this recipe 
is why. The previous recipe is 
pretty simple and quick, but this 
isalonger term, weekend task 
and well worth the effort. Essen
tially youre following package 
directions here.
The important thing is not to 
add the flavor packets  nasty 
falseness.
Also, this is where the bone and 
fat come in. I know fat is unpopu
lar, but its also where the flavor 
is (why does everything taste like 
chicken? Because most things, 
like chicken, have no fat; beef 
and pork have fat, and so are 
more flavor-rich), and youll be 
taking it out before serving.
Not surprisingly, I recommend 
potatoes in the first two package 
options, as well as carrots.
Simmer forever.
Ive made all of these, and all 
have been wonderful. Invite more 
friends (the ones who missed the 
first big meal).
And another word on meat: al
though Ive made a reasonably 
successful meatless 15 bean soup, 
I also made a terribly bland len
til, so be warned: if you skip the 
meat, youve got to make up for a 
lot of flavor.
By the way, com muffins go 
great with all of these, and I 
rarely make any of them with
out. Dont be ashamed of Jiffymix. Its way cheap and super 
easy, and, frankly, Ive yet to 
find a 100% satisfying fromscratch recipe. If I do, youll be 
the first to know. Oh, and a tip 
from Arts mom: chopped 
jalapeno in the muffin mix. 
Mm-mmm. But watch out! Can 
be hot, so youd better get your 
butter out.
Jason Roth is a fifth year 
architectural student living in 
a mansion in Pittsburgh. He 
has his choice of two kitchens 
and usually runs back and 
forth between them, cooking two 
meals at once. Chances are that 
when he begins to design build
ings and houses, there will be 
two kitchens on every floor. If 
youre lucky, maybe hell even 
stay after the house is built to 
cook you your first dinner. You 
bring the wine.
Eat in or take-outGroceries
gyros falafils 
salads baklava 
spinach pies & etc.
Feta Cheeses 
Greek Olives 
Basmati Rice & more

---------------------------------------------------

Ns CckCn  iCcnsIhs vsoopn  g ,pmstbsc ReeWL3
yIoopF pmsFukpkt ptdesp 
w:cn F:inc sIo:tnCpoct
!
TUNNEL, from page LI
proper form of discipline, or the 
student can recommend his own 
punishment and leave it up to 
Murphy to accept or reject  
rather like settling out of court.
The aspect of the disciplin
ary process that may be most 
ppealingto students is the self 
proposal, which, Murphy point
ed out, is not restricted to the 
gteam tunnels. We havent had 
case with the steam tunnels 
) I havent thought of what 
would be fair in that case, 
Murphy said in reference to 
what sort of student proposal 
he would accept.
However, he did indicate that 
different actions in the steam 
tunnels would result in differ
ent punishments. Someone 
down there to just look around 
would probably not face the 
same consequences as the per
son who Murphy claims was 
trying to break into the book
store through the tunnels a few 
years back.
Still, Murphy made it clear 
that anyone caught in the steam 
junnels would not be dealt with 
Rightly. I support a strong line 
,pn steam tunnels because I 
think its foolish and danger
ous to go down there.
Indeed, because of the grave 
dangers of the steam tunnels,
CMU police have taken a number 
of precautions. Both Murphy and 
Chief of Campus Police James 
Lapaglia pointed out that the 
most dangerous aspect of the tun
nels is that if anything happens 
to someone down there, no one 
has any way of knowing about it.
Because of the safety hazards, 
many of the entrances to the 
steam tunnels are equipped with 
alarms. However, if the wander
ing student thinks he is safe after 
making his way through a door 
without hearing an alarm, he 
ought to think again. Lapaglia 
said that the alarm does not go off 
in the tunnels, but rather in the 
campus police headquarters. 
Lapaglia said that not all of the 
doors are equipped with alarms, 
but declined to point out which 
were and which were not. He also 
pointed out that there are vari
ous motion detectors throughout 
the tunnels.
While Dean Murphy and Chief 
Lapaglia may be right about the 
danger of the steam tunnels, that 
didnt stop T(?m Nichols, CMU 
math/stats graduate of1992, who 
explored the tunnels his senior 
year.
Nichols, who now resides in 
Squirrel Hill, said that the threat 
of expulsion when he was caught 
in the steam tunnels was a joke. 
In fact, he claims that the secu
rity officer who caught him 
did not even want to bring up 
any charges for the incident.
Nichols said that when he 
and his companions were leav
ing the tunnels, they saw a 
figure moving near the exit. 
That figure turned out to be a 
security guard who was down 
in the tunnels for a smoke 
break.
After the security guard ra
dioed in the incident and asked 
for the students to be let off 
with a warning, a sergeant, 
who felt the matter was a bit 
more serious, showed up to 
officially write up Nichols and 
his friends.
Steam tunnels exhibit 
years of school history
STEAM, from page LIdents used the steam tunnels as 
a shortcut, moving underneath 
the campus between classes. Back 
then, the tunnels were well-lit 
and could be walked through eas
ily, until the University closed 
them to students in the mid1940s.
In fact, some of the older areas 
of the tunnels still have signs 
saying Employees only allowed 
in this tunnel  Others at their 
own risk.
Other signs appear on the walls, 
some warning of additional dan
gers. Faded chalked and spraypainted graffiti line the tunnels, 
with quotes like Old Mold Acid
unsuspecting student armed with 
only a flashlight.
But now the room is harshly lit
the tunnels, with turbines whir
ring and generators stopping and 
starting apparently at random. A
This tunnel travels underground outside GSIA.. Tartan Photographer
Tartan Photographer
The equipment down in the tunnels provides fresh water and heat 
throughout the campus.
Tartan Photographer 
Graffiti is a key element to the history of the steam tunnels.
The result of the process was 
that Nichols was given a choice 
between a hundred dollar fine 
or ten hours of community ser
vice. It was my senior year 
and I didnt have time for the 
service, so I just paid the fine, 
Nichols said.
Nichols seemed convinced 
that expulsion is just a threat 
trying to keep students out of 
the tunnels. Still, he said, after 
he was caught, I havent been 
down there since.
Severe punishment may just 
be an empty threat, but that 
leaves it up to the student 
whether or not to take the risk.
75, Moe 59, and Frodo Lives, 
written on June 17, 1964. Old 
bottles and newspapers hint at 
generations of students long 
graduated.
Much of the history of the steam 
tunnels centers around one place, 
a sloped dirt chamber concealed 
under the north stairs of the Col
lege of Fine Arts building. Color
ful graffiti and slogans dating 
back to the 1950s cover the wall, 
testifying to the number of stu
dents who used the space for gath
erings and parties in the past. 
The room had been a chamber 
veiled in darkness, with hidden 
corners under the cavernous 
space, promising adventure to the
by fluorescent lights, installed 
recently as part of the Facilities 
Management upgrade plan. Now 
you can see what you wondered 
about before, said John. We 
dont even need flashlights any
more. Its disappointing. Its a 
sad end to an old and sacred tra
dition.
Near the room under the Col
lege of Fine Arts steps is a cam
pus phone, marked extension 8- 
7168 with a sticker saying Do 
Not Lick.
Past the phone, the tunnels 
snake under the College of Fine 
Arts basement hallway, where 
steam tunnel wanderers can hear 
people walking above them. You 
have to be quiet when youre in 
that area, because people can hear 
you if you talk too loud, said 
John.
A recent addition to the steam 
tunnel maze is the one under 
Posner Hall, the newest building 
on campus with a tunnel connec
tion. In the basement of the build
ing is a room with suprisingly 
modern equipment dotted with 
glowing readouts and blinking 
lights.
Posner Halls new industrial 
cinderblock and brick is a wel
come relief from the moldering, 
dust-filled tunnels areas of the 
tunnel system common to the rest 
of the network. The room is the 
most active of any connected to
side passage leading past a room 
marked A54 opens into another 
LED-filled space, this one with a 
terminal, presumably connected 
to the high-tech heating and cool
ing equipment.
In the older parts of GSIA, there 
was a six-foot drop to get to the 
building.
Now Facilities Management 
has provided a ladder allowing 
eager adventurers to descend 
more easily.
Near the ladder was a cock
roach, struggling on its back in 
one of the smaller side tunnels. It 
was the sole sign of life in the 
dank industrial zone of the steam 
tunnels.
Except for a few of the louder 
machinery and ventilation areas, 
the tunnels are suprisingly quiet. 
After a while, the mechanical 
throbbing fades to a pleasant 
background hum. If it werent for 
the overheated temperatures and 
inconveniently locked doors, the 
tunnels would be a fabulous place 
to study.
In fact, the temperature in the 
tunnels is usually blistering. 
Since the tunnels carry steam 
pipes with water at over 200 de
grees, the air temperatures hover 
around 100 degrees. In the win
ter, a branch steam tunnel melts 
snow on the Cut in a line stretch
ing from Hunt Library to Warner 
Hall.
9tFeC Awekpoptt Wppk 
e:Ct cu :ots:kp cnuIinc
By ALLIE KING
Tartan Asst. Features Ed.
This week, November 7 
through November 11, will be 
Islam Awareness week, sponsoredby MSA, the Muslim Stu;t Association of CMU. A 
string of daily multicultural 
events, ranging from informa
tion sessions to discussions and 
videos, will center on the 
feme, Islam: An Invitation 
to Think.
A primary goal of MSA is to 
dear up any preconceptions 
concerning Islam as a religion, 
i'urthermore, through a dekiledpresentationofthemany 
aspects of Islam, as well as 
aspects of other religions and 
cultures, MSA hopes to pro
vide a clear and educational 
Picture of Islam to the mem
bers of the CMU community 
The theme, which invites and 
challenges people to think, is one 
of the aspects which is geared 
toward attracting people's atten
tion and encouraging their in
volvement in the events. This 
program isintendedfor the whole 
CMU community, said Muhammed Razi Abdul, the secre
tary of MSA We expect many 
people will be interested, since 
we find that the topics that will 
be covered are really compatible 
with the themeinvitingpeople 
to use their intellect.
This year will be the first time 
that MSA has organized Islam 
Awareness Week, and it will be 
the biggest program they have 
ever organized. A lot of work and 
effort on the part of those in
volved with MSA has gone into 
the planning of the event.
Being a multicultural/mul
tiethnic association, MSA has 
the endowment of cultural di
versity which they have uti
lized in the planning of the 
program.
The president is Pakistani, 
I, myself, am Malaysian, and 
one of our committee mem
bers is from Egypt, so we ex
pect the event will be very 
interesting," Abdul said.
The seriesofevents will close 
with a trip: to a local mosque. 
Those interested in going 
should meet at the Morewood 
shuttle stop at 4:35 pm on 
November 11.
For all events, or just the 
trip to the mosque, appropri
ate attire is any loose-fitting 
clothes that expose only the 
face and hands, and women 
should cover their hair.

EX LIBRIS A GOOD BOOK IS A GOOD FRIEND
Carnegie Mellon University Libraries
ANNUAL
BOOK SALE
EX LIBRIS
HUNT LIBRARY 
I a.m. to 6 p.m. daily
Reserve Room, Ntc Floor 
November 7 & 8 pm 1994
X3IONHirad QQOO V SI 3000 GIOOO V
A P9f.f OF PAPfR 
9R bWRy RO Lmat 
Wf'D 19Kf yO Sffy
YOU IN PERSON.
INFORMATION 
SESSION 
RcI2poc .pocpkRuuC 20 
RIo2eawul. N3 
:30sCv:00sC
ON-CAMPUS 
INTERVIEWS 
Suo2eawul. N4 
R:ioIs
Banyan, a recognized leader in the enterprise-wide distributed computing software industry, is 
coming to campus in search of the next generation of software developers. Were tapped 
into one of the fastest growing segments In the industry: Enterprise Networking Services for 
UNIX-based operating systems. Come find out about our entrepreneurial environment for 
yourself  were completely open to your ideas and ready to reward innovative thinking!SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATE SOFTWARE ENGINEERS
Youll create, modify, maintain and test software 
components, as well as design/implement 
enhancements using the latest 
PC/Workstation technology. You 
should have strong C program
ming skills, an understanding of 
standard operating and net
working distributed systems, and 
knowledge of software engi
neering practices. While expo
sure to these technology areas 
is important, intelligence, theBANYAN
drive to succeed and a demonstrated track record 
of academic achievement are equally important.
Banyan offers a highly compet
itive compensation package. If 
you're unable to see us on 
campus, please send your 
resume to: Banyan Systems, 
Human Resources, Dept. CR, 14 
Walkup Drive, Westboro, Mfl 
01581. An equal opportunity 
employer.

---------------------------------------------------

n
Calvin and Hobbesby Bill Watterson
Get off-fr\e Y FORGET IT Swing. T*into/. I ViMT -mTUCN.
ITS TO BE RELIGIOUS U:? 
CERTAIN PEOPLE ARE NEVER'! 
INCINERATED BOTS, OF UGlf^
Intro du cindgiheudCCREF
COACH, /I THINK (I H A VE TO V.THROW 
UP'
/^gFthr^ PAL! IT'S ALMOST V INTERMISSIONI
i roftft)ey\iaHy FtU&vyJly SkUiGC/$ U JACKSON TAM
TARTAN-CROSS
By JEFFE BOATS
ACROSS
I. Television judge 
7. Quick punch
10. A Galilean moon
II. Quickly as you can
13. Comic Wright
14. Cwm
16. Actress West
17. Boot part
18. Still 
20. Windward
22. U-boat
23. KGB rival
24. Boy
25. Come out on top
26. Disappointed cry
27. left
29. Eagle on par 4
30. Smidgen
31. Telephone
34. Blast furnace residue
36. Slash
37. Openings
38. Consume
39. Soak
40. Grue
41. Qubcois friend
42. Sneak a peak
43. Actress Meyers
44. Major artery 
46. Follow course
49. Close
50. Get ________
stay out!
51. Imbue with ink
52. Egg breakfast
DOWN
1. Ensign Crusher2. ___omobile
3. Forethought
4. Exploding stars
5. Foil6. Sped on foot
7. _______'s ladder8. Tennis star Arthur
9. Sheep bleat 
12. Descriptive of !
Jung's theorif
15. _____Kampf
17
20 21 22
25
26 
28 
29
31
32
33
34
35
36
39
40
42
43
45
46
47
48
Dull brown 
Lao Tse's concept 
Heavy beer 
Not strict 
Cover with turf 
Marry 
Wise bird 
Children's game 
Make handmade laj 
Drinking vessel i 
Mistake
Actress Charlottf 
Caspian, e.g. 
Tibetan monk 
Caress 
Extra
Speak public! 
Delay execution 
Calla, e.g. 
Communist 
Also 
Chemical suffix< 
An insecticide
ConilnJ "> Z Jeeks!

---------------------------------------------------

A4. P/i By
I Vfi aW-P h<*i "ftve ais, faogs, claims, 
SIvJ +<vl I &J&r\ as VdixVoc^ .-
fW<eewa \
" /\5 ar\ \ Mai
fcdnappei b^
lw\es& iwv)*.,
jVujtooK w*e
fcod -Vo VV\e>r 
temple .
nfli raised ^<2
S-tVvcif own
w yM~\ye.-\ewvp\e, \ 
Vvsv\&i jv\cj \uirv^ 
fb te fozcff sW^rp 
pf-ec+\ov\ ,avvd 
^ tecked "tVve
>. c ^Q5Slc-i ^ Chinese
lifefVnfe...
Al: +n:dcCn DD:po2 15 
how f became tVe 1 
-PmelM tuned uje&oone?
<d&xVV\ I a tod
5uC/- 9'C o<ac Fuu^:k\i
*. inaVfi ujof Or
Hvs.
Ayvi|Ort 
vHtj IS**1 
fcvrtVvfoM; iy\ o.ciofdivy:a 
kMVv +T^i'tlOV\, 
owwed 'Wvs 
^arb f-IVvs. 
Flupi^g 1 
5i\uifCe\.
Whats a Wendell?----p----v V* ----vv VST
OVi, man, X Wi o. S 
kpuj Wek2 c:Cp tFpps103 
last nl^rt. X
dor\'-f WY\+ To |e up.
ba Secc GuF2bpki
ufe rM 
KeiV
m*t-S^MAtrkuS61cC/4
llfer'XHU-"
IM WOT 16AVM&\ Un)Til. I PlMD I 
OUT uirtATs I ^BOTHERuJG 30U. J
lm51 MM
'THtetS MO gSlBTTb itf talking. JUST , GO AulAy.
C VJU^ So Svjftv-y, Co e.u-j 7
u)u\4 so SMARi.y 
CHARLie-?
' 'AJu'i SO HOPFy PUFPS3?
y
( WHv4 So Mooo^ 
. TomFfcurrt iV/Hi SO Atffcy,
[ fAISS Ci LUE UMJGT^7 I
ne Sc*.ys Ke CaiA'i" 
reoi_ak 1a is tar 
bpcdStp n:t 2k:lpweat 
S uD b
-7/V TYaMr^hfJWjp.
DoonesburyBY GARRY TRUDEAU
THERE'S A REPORT JUSTOUT ABOUT FBI FILES FOUNP IN 
YOUR WHITE HOUSe SAFE. THEY DESCRIBE AUE6ATI0NS THAT 
m mbmbs^s of your contra 
ARMS RBSUFPLYTEAM WERE COCAINE TRAFFICKERS!
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN ACCUSING ME OF KNOW - ING WHAT MY OWN PEOPLE WERE UP TO FOR. YEARS! IT WONT STICK' ftJHOPO THEYUSTAS r 
SUSPECTEP TRAFFICKERS?
&.IKKlTV= 
CUKKlTt/g

 ASSUMING 1 REAP MY OHJNF/LE&. OR THAT THEXWERENT PLANTET? I PI MY ENEMIES. ETTHER
IF A MAN'S A TRUE PATRIOT, mUN6 TO VO mmnThank yopeFENSB OF.FREEDOM, HUAI HEDOES ON THE SIPS IS HIS BUSINESS! ARE YOU A WITH ME HERE? KT^\\
(S3^/^<cfiZc,
b2
OKAY, HERB'S THE SITUATION, EVERYONE: SOME PAMA6IN6 FILES U1ERBF0UNP INCLUE'S UJHTTE HOUSe SAFE. TH& COLONEL HAS ORPEREPA MEPtA PROTECTIVE REACTION STRJK.
tOUR MESSAGE HAS THRSE ELEMENTS. ONE, HE NEVER REAP THEM. TWO, EVEN IF HE HAP, THEY MERE RAM, UNSUB5TANT1ATEP PffTA. ANP THREE, THIS 15 JU5TANOTHER ATTACK 
FROM THE LIBERAL MEP/A !
...AND TODAY, IN AN IMPROMPTU PRESS CONFERENCE ATA 6UN 
FACTORY, MR. NCRTH PENIEP HE HAP KNOWN THAT SOME OF HIS OPERATIVES UJERESUSPEOEPPRUS TRAFFICKERS...
COLONEL, IF THERE'S A LIBERAL BIAS IN THE MEDIA, THEN WHY HAS BILL CLINTON RECEIVED FAR WORSE PRESS THAN HIS TWO REPUBLICAN PREDECESSORS *
\ ItiB PONT WANT TO GET ROLLED OVER INTO THE NEXT NEWS 
CYCLE, PEOPLE, SO HIT MJR FAXES! THE COLONEL UJANTS TO PEF/NE THE STORY BEFORE I IT DEFINES HIM!
NORTH CONPEMNEPALLEGA - HONS THAT FILES FOUND IN 
HIS SAFE BY THE FBI S OTHERWISE, SAYINGTHATHE HAP NEVER /OUNP TIME TO EXAMINE THEM- 

---------------------------------------------------

By GARY LARSON
WD ifuI'W 
B y Ma-TI&RoeN((fJ6
gufa...
DOES ATHREEHEAOEP PftA60K) E^EB BlTt It'S OTHER HEAPS? .
IS THERE 
A QOEEiJ 
\ feOiOG? ,
DO MOKJSTE EVE HAvJE 
V FrO? v
VJHEf OEAcuuRTBiOSidTo - o-u| -yvnudnOTHER SftTS APRAiP 
OF gymE
-in jfmTynT CkwB ga,,MWHOS ST0H6e, 
6ATMAM 0 
v/THE ALIEN?
CA>J MOTHCA FLy UPSI06- V POUU??7
VJHEtO PEACOiATUfOS WTO A SAT, WHAT HAPPElOS TO IcaRyar ""RJIrgwTH
HOvJ COME Tfmn \ WoSSTEet uJEAft 'Rfudno -m& ofmnkWTrwT aDw S-ht
"But on the other hand, Feldman, having the biggest 
brain among us means that it Is mere childs play to 
subdue you with an ordinary headlockl"
IS Mo USTE EL' ISLftiOO WEA vHAulftll??
LIgIT TrwIO2D9 ,eaxRwPTrwyF. oe jaws 7
IF DEAUllA 6rt 60TOUA,
GwAaaq ywwxc..D PO -
-^VAMPl?? ^
WvW ARE \ leBook1tf 
SOM06IM ALL . TUETiME??
RaxA MorOSTEB-S TALtTO EACH OTHE 'JfeuUJi1'
UCWJ CAiO^V SKELETONS LIFT UP HEA\jyv sujoeds ? -Tha+ilws 'A-.. 
Vrr qorrv sff5iSSd'HOvO, PftPP*'
by Mark Kantrowltz
Now what theorem applies to this... Douglas! 
Is that a fly youre sucking on? Well, I hope 
you brought enough for everyone!"
In a laddergram, the object 
is to transform the word 
on the top rung into the 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without 
changing the positions of 
the other letters. For 
example, we can change 
LEAD into GOLD in just 
three steps: LEAD, LOAD, 
GOAD, GOLD.
Copyright 0 1994 
by Mark Kantrowitz. 
All rights reserved
UIDjjBppDl S,>|33M Sim 0} (S)U01.^n ]0S
By secretly working out for many months, Irwin 
became the envy of all the 98-pound weaklings.Wnpkp wp ipc deFeCek: bFeod
. H Y UK/ Yin
ROSf OF YOU ARf AWARf.of tWF covm o&Myf^A
TfONI WE HAVE LAIP/jMfm 
OUT IN THE PAy TO If' 
TOPPLB MQKHG 9 
KIN(,t>OM. OUR RPcptVF
f AILfy.? PK/PnZ>
PA&KCHE'i MIMSTiR DijDc 
9SbA. W MANirWmcJJ 
HIM, wp wp:pi esF /9  
TO PWRg PAvy.g6y / \ >
KING l/lJA yWA:s:^V - 
Df.APfW.6 AWD I 
kokkkkkDkDD: : : : S
PAf9..gf gAR MO WA Y OUT THIS y/A9f J 
c 9y W911 Bi .^bgD WjDF A VU, BY/ 
^OR \/Rwg1S9V:- A119fD ^^^J/AMD N
------wTllTead Porrto
cncIhvFoe Ccp Cufmikh
jUlTA, WHO WAb 
,uodp ke/uwe/ m 
^\n:t pkavery, 
-11 Is WowfAtf/Wi 
9(g|R PAYR W/9yg 
b/W9wf AA/D g9R 
9//w96gyR W9yg 
I/JwomeN.
gf 1/5yfA/byO 
A.V/.f DcWy
:1ku Addpskt 
ikhrrtpu oi 
V 9SbA
PWS:1! ksl WILL 
A..OSPAwY Sp Ou rdiv 
X A S Pg A9 .k w
AMP J WILL BR/WC 
?TH <?P MY SN /WTO THIS OPWATIOll 
AS WLL,^__
ygF//? PfpP1f gAVf 1ORy y:DD 
ARPf.y FOR yg&/9 *yW:. ygf/9? 
ARSY N5 R19:y/S^- PPR9VfP OF 
VRFR.:::pP9K /P19VF3 ASD MOKAL
\NOMSULTO CAP IT OFF, TAN(, CHINA A6P&F0TO $FWP T^OOPi ^--------Tr=^7-, TO (OkiQU&R PAGICCHQ.

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
RqI:kkpF g:FF Cekpt 
Duk ikpec ptdesp
age about $6.00, and they have 
homemade desserts.
For more relaxed surroundings, 
try The Coffee Tree Roasters. This 
was certainly one of the most 
unique finds of the afternoon. A 
coffee lovers paradise, not only Cruism the Burgh do they serve a wide variety of 
by Christina Farrell coffee, but they also sell everything from brewers to beans. For 
Weve all experienced those those who arent as fond of coffee, 
[ays when your greatest desire they also sell Ghiradelli choco\ in the world is simply to get off late and other scrumptious-lookcampus. Even if its just for a ing snacks and goodies. While 
; quick lunch or a short walk, you you enjoy your coffee, you can 
just have to go somewhere.
Well, last Friday I had 
one of those days. My 
roommate and I were 
both feeling trapped by 
our own house and de
cided it was absolutely 
necessary to leave our 
backpacks behind and 
head out beyond the con
fnes of CMU. Realizing 
that we were earless, 
however, put a few con
straints on our ambi
tions, so we decided just 
to walk up to Squirrel 
Hill and grab a quick bite.
While looking for some
where to eat, I discov
ered many places that I 
hadnt noticed before.
Here are some of those 
finds, as well as some of 
my old favorites, that are 
possible get-away spots in Squir
rel Hill for the next time youre a 
campus escapee.
The first place we stopped was
Where
Squirrel Hill
What
Snacks, sweets, and supper
For more information
Brueggers Bagels 683-6360
Sweet Basil 421-9958
The Coffee Tree Roasters 422-4427
In Good Taste 422-2208
Brauners Gourmet Shop 
Emporium 422-6100
Cookie Bouquet 422-9224
Gulliftys 521-8222
On Forbes Ave, there is Bagel 
Nosh, Boston Chicken, and 
Pamelas. Across the street is a 
great Italian place, Sweet Basil. 
They have a colorful decoreven 
on the tables. Each table is cov
ered with paper and you get cray
ons to decorate it how you like. 
They open at 11:30am for lunch
Monday through Saturday and any questions or suggestions 
offer early bird dinners from 3:30 about what to do in Pittsburgh, 
to 5:30 Monday through Friday, contact The Tartan or send email 
Most of their dinner items averto cf2s.
Artifacts uncovered at Hewlett
By NATALIE WOCHELE
Tartan Staffwriter
Picasso once said, Art is a He that tells the truth. That is what 
the exhibition of the Reconstruction of an Aazudian Temple at 
Hewlett Gallery, in CFA, showing from November 1-22, is all 
about.
Beauvais Lyons, director of the Hokes Archive, focuses his 
exhibition on the discovery and excavation of a civilization found 
along the Euphrates River, called the Aazudians.
Unlike the Sumerians and Assyrians, the Aazuds had no form of 
military or slavery. They were people who lived off of their
accomplishments in the arts: poetry, dance, music, horticulture, 
cooking, and massage. The name of this culture, Aazud, derived 
from the Akkadian word meaning to be free, unrestricted, rein
forces the basic importance of these ancient people. Walking into the 
Gallery, one speculates whether the artifacts represented are exca
vated discoveries or the artists own creations. The truth is that the 
work does not appear to be art, but it functions in a way art does  
with wholeness, harmony, and radiance. James Joyce describes the 
necessary phases of artistic apprehension: When judging a piece of 
art one must first draw a fine about the object to apprehend its 
esthetic image. Second, the balance and the structure of the different 
parts in that image must be understood and seen as being part of the
Please see HEWLETT, page LIO
Bpop2:dc:op bppk bk:Ct w:cn DueCDFeluk
look over the pictures on the walls 
of Squirrel Hill in the early 1900s.
People with a sweet tooth 
should feel right at home in Squir
rel Hill. Baskin 
Robbins is always 
available for ice 
cream.
For more than 31 
flavors of sweets 
from which to 
choose, visit In 
Good Taste. The 
room bulges with 
nearly every kind 
of candy imagin
able, as well as an 
assortment of bal
loons and fan gift 
items.
Gifts for friends 
with a sweet tooth 
can be found at 
Brauners Gourmet 
Shop Emporium, 
for baskets of home
made chocolate, 
Dave Parry/ Photo Staff Manager cheese, wine, tea,
Gulliftys in Squirrel Hill is quite a popular ai^coffeerestaurant. Check out those desserts! ^r CookieBouquet for clever 
Brueggers Bagels onMurray Ave. arrangements of cookies that are 
This is a standby of mine for resure to bring a smile to anyones 
ally good, quick food. For others face.
who frequent Brueggers, theyve The ultimate sweets, however, 
finished remodeling, so theres are at Gulliftys. Their desserts, 
now a more spacious dining area, most of which stand about four 
If youre looking for a larger inches tall, have been named the 
meal, you have several options, best in town. The menu at
The Comer Table
by Jim Zelenka
Religion has been receiving a 
lot of bad press in recent years. 
Its hard to find a week in which 
an article has not appeared in 
some major publication condemn
ing religiously inspired terrorists 
or holy wars, or blaming various 
political and economic tensions 
on historic religious rivalries. 
Fortunately, things seem to be 
settling down in at least one hot 
spot: The Middle East. Lets hope 
that this sentiment spreads fur
ther.
One religious order that needs 
no encouragement to relax and 
focus on the important things in 
life are the Trappists. A little 
after the turn of the millennium, 
a Beredictine order migrated 
north from Italy to Orval, in mod
ern-day Belgium. Like many 
other orders, after they migrated 
north, these Benedictines grew 
more liberal over time.
Eventually, lead by the monks 
at Citeaux, they broke away and 
formed an order known as the 
Cistercians, and were much more 
liberal than the Benedictines. 
This proved too liberal for some, 
however, and a second splinter 
faction formed, this one more con
servative than the Cistercians, 
but less so than the Benedictines. 
Led by the abbey at La Trappe, 
Normandy, these monks became 
known as the Trappists.
The Trappists have an inter
esting interpretation of the 
Benedictine vows, which forbid 
the monks from eating food or 
wearing clothing not produced by 
the labor of their own hands.
Their interpretation is that they 
brew beer, some of which they 
drink, and they sell the rest, us
ing the money to buy food and 
clothing.
Ive heard worse plans.
The ales these abbeys produce 
are very distinctive, and the style 
is known as, of course, Trappist 
ale. By law, only six breweries in
the world may refer to their prod
ucts as Trappist ales: in order of 
founding, Orval, Rochefort, 
Westmalle, Westvleteren (also 
known as Saint Sixtus), Chimay, 
and Schaapskooi.
Other abbeys and commercial 
breweries (and in many cases, 
one is the other) may refer to 
their products as abbey ales (the 
term denotes an ale in the 
Trappist style that may not be 
referred to as a Trappist ale). 
This includes such a wide range 
of brewers as the Benedictines of 
Affligem, (the Moortgat family, 
the Augustines of Corsendonk, 
and the New Belgium Brewing 
Company of Fort Collins, Colo
rado.
Trappist and abbey ales are 
known for complex, often flowery 
bodies and noses. The flowery 
nose is generally a sign of a fresher 
ale; after aging, the flavor is less 
flowery and more wine-like.
Indeed, these beers are all 
bottle-conditioned; that is, the 
final ferment takes place in the 
bottle. This makes a beer which 
ages exceedingly well, develop
ing richness and character over 
an extended period of time. The
sediment youll find clustering at 
the bottom of a bottle (remember 
to pour carefully to avoid disturb
ing it!) is the yeast which pro
vided this final ferment.
Some people prefer to agitate a 
Trappist ale slightly before pour
ing, to mix this yeast more evenly 
throughout the bottle; I prefer to 
let it sit at the bottom of the 
bpttle, then pour the last centi
meter or so into my glass all at 
once for a thick, cloudy treat re
ferred to by beer afficianados as 
liquid bread.
The complex flavor is the result 
of a complex blend of yeasts. Fa
ther Theodore of Chimay and 
Belgian scientist Jean De Clerck 
worked closely together after 
World War II to isolate the yeast 
strains in these ales.
Their research identified doz
ens of unique yeast strains in 
Chimays brews. Father 
Theodores work has made him 
famous among brewers and cler
ics around the world, arid when 
De Clerck died in 1978, he was 
buried at the abbey at Chimay.
These ales are best served at 
temperatures around t 
Fahrenheit.
Gulliftys is large, too, and rea
sonably priced.
The open dining room creates 
a unique atmosphere. It is a great 
place for an evening meal or just 
a treat.
Christina Farrell is a sopho
more music major. If you have
Abbey and Trappist ales
Duvel
Duvel is produced by the Moortgat 
family ofBsmrs, Belgium. Thei r aston
ishingly effervescent brew is a made 
with a blend of two strains of yeast 
(down from the original blend of 20 
strains, isolated from a bottle of 
McEwans Scottish Ale by Jean De 
Clerck, under contract to the 
Moortgats, who wanted to cash in on 
the contemporary popularity of that 
style).
Duvel takes its odd name from an 
apocryphal brewer who,, upon tasting 
the first batch, declared it to be, the 
Devil of a beer. The modem malt is 
light and golden, making way for the 
yeast flavor and effervescent texture 
of the beer.
Chimay
Chimays red-label is the yardstick 
against which other Trappist and ab
bey ales are measured. It has a reddish 
color, a rich, yeasty body, and a very 
flowery nose.
Their blue label (also known as the 
Grande Reserve) is their crowning 
achievement.
It has a rich, dense body, a wine-like 
nose, and a delicious finish. This beer 
changes character radically as it ages: 
fresh, it is slightly rough, with a flowery 
nose and a spicy body. After a year or so, 
it mellows out, having a smoother con
sistency and cleaner nose. After five or 
six years, it has many of the character
istics of a fine sheriy or port, though 
few can bear to wait so long!
Affligem
Affligems Doppel is dark, rich, and 
malty. The nose is a combination of 
yeast and hops. The finish is pleasantly 
malty and yeasty at the same time. 
Their trippel is much lighter in the 
body, with a heady, hoppy nose and 
slightly hoppy body. The Benedictines 
of Affligem are credited by some with 
introducing hops to Belgium.
Saint Sixtus
Westvleterens Saint Sixtus is very 
smooth, with hints of vanilla, when 
properly aged. Younger, it has a slightly 
rougher flavor, with just a hint of gin
ger. Either way, its a great slo w-sipper.
Corsendonk
Corsendonks pale ale is actu
ally a trippel. It lacks the refine
ment which characterizes many 
other abbey ales, but it has a 
hoppy nose and an eryoyable, 
yeasty body. The finish is a blend 
ofhop and yeast flavors. Both the 
nose and finish are slightly flow
ery.
Corsendonk Brown is a Doppel, 
with a pleasant, malty body and 
a slightly hoppy nose. The yeast 
is somewhat underassertive for 
the trippel style, but it still lends 
a spicy character.
Witkap
Witkap is an abbey ale that 
combines the complex Belgian 
yeast style;with a wit (white) like 
body.
The yeast flavor is not as com
plex as most abbey ales, but the 
mild nose, smooth, refreshing 
body, and clean yeasty finish 
make it a treat on warmer days 
when most Trappist or abbey 
ales would be a bit too heavy.
.npdk uIc Bkaeo Fpkkart opw eFbIC Duk oulpFF:kebFp CIt:d
JONSLENK
Tartan Staffwriter
Artist: Bryan Ferry 
Album: Mamouna
Right, what have we here, then? An
other album from Ferry? Heck, Ill re1 view it!
Time passes....
Yeah, good, liked it. NEXT!
I guess I cant really get away with just 
having that be my review, so heres some 
Uer, uh, ... more detailed text, should Steven Cassidy
you care to read it.
On the first listen of the disc, I didnt 
find that many tunes I really liked. The 
first, Dont Want to Know seemed to be 
pretty good, as did the sixth, The 39 
Steps. After a few more times through 
the album, I began to get into it. In the 
end, I pretty much liked everything, 
although in places I found Ferrys voice 
wavering just a bit too much.
My fear with this album was that 
Ferry would produce something that 
sounded just like everything else hes 
done. Fortunately, while it does indeed 
exhibit qualities of Ferrys previous work, Steven Cassidy
I find he isnt merely repeating himself. 
The music is novel; I find that Dont 
Want to Know and The 39 Steps have 
the most interesting musical aspects of 
the 10 songs on the disc, which is prob
ably why they are my favorites. How
ever, the lyrics are pretty much the 
usual disheveled Romantic Man words 
weve come to expect.
To summarize: If you like Ferrys pre
vious stuff, this album wont let y >u 
down. Ifyouve only heard a few of Ferrys 
songs, and you think you might have 
liked them, this disc is worth checking 
out. Dig it, man.

---------------------------------------------------

 helpin&
sto* ff**5
0\M0b
fcsi..4V*\eV<*
fl 6ene t ljoor t,WSto C0trli
mjM iUrtyj CryMnyebS
Theirs.Ours.
Ic started with a vision about propelling business into the information age. Then took off with the worlds first relational database. Its now a two 
billion-dollar, enterprise-wide software solutions company that keeps growing at about 25% a yearwith new products, bold technological strategies and 
a big head start down the information superhighway. Theres nothing to do here but grow. You either make history, or become it.
BS/MS CS/EE. You can become a: Software Developer  Technical Analyst  Consultant  Product Manager
Well be on campus November 16-17. E-mail your resume TODAY!
ORACLE
Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: lslynn@us.oracle.com / FAX: 415-506-1073 / PHONE: 415-506-6991

---------------------------------------------------

Ns CckCn  iCcnsIhs vsoopn  g ,pmstbsc ReeWLe
Flesh packs insights, anger
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Diversions Assistant Editor
Artist: David Gray 
Album: Flesh
Suggested Tracks: The Light, 
Lullaby
Made up my mind/1
The songwriter era is a mobile period; it comes in and out 
like a dog with a two-way pet door, but it never fades 
completely. Recently  thanks to the efforts of artists like 
Elanor McEvoy, Tori Amos, Jeffrey Gaines (his first al
bum, anyway), and Ben Harper  the scene has been 
blooming again. The unplugged epidemic struck all of the 
pop industry, and people suddenly found the humanity in 
song again. David Gray is the latest child of this revolution, 
a gruff-voiced strummer with a Scottish accent, sort of like 
a bastard child of Leonard Cohen and the Proclaimers. His 
songwriting skills bless us with some gems, like the beau
tiful acoustic power-ballad The Light and the aggressive 
Made up my mind, a song of the traveling kind.
The album opens with What are you?, which is kind of 
unfortunate. Its not his fault, but its not all that good of 
a song. It just has these guitars that are endlessly being 
pounded (strumstrumstrumstrum strumstrumstrum is
about the way that it sounds), and you wonder if Gray has ever heard 
of subtlety (it just reeks of the severity that turns me off in many 
songwriters.)
If I were a record-label exec, and this thing was submitted as a 
demo, I would probably have turned it right off. Once I got past the
first track, however, the songs 
got to be quite good.
Gray has a knack for driving 
songs, tunes that start pump
ing blood right away and stop 
on a dime when everything that 
needs to be said has been.The 
10 tracks on Flesh provide a 
clear window into the heart of 
David Gray, and I would se
verely recommend trying this 
one, as long as one can get past 
the gruffness of the vocals and 
the first track itself. Because 
even though Cracker sings, 
What the world needs now/is 
another folk singer/ like I need 
John Ross a hole in the head, I think we
David Grays got the stuff that has made can make room for at least a few
songwriters a success through the years. more.
Fkeokpotcp:o 2pF:lpkt ikpec tcuka
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
What: Mary Shellys Franken
stein
Where: The Manor Theater, 
Squirrel Hill
Starring: Kenneth Branagh, 
Robert DeNiro
One of the most eagerly awaited 
films this year, Mary Shellys 
Frankenstein is a film that deliv
ers what it promises: great act
ing, beautiful directing, and a 
creepy story fine to boot. Based 
on classic novel Frankenstein by 
Mary Shelly, this film is not your 
average monster movie. Rather, 
in the somewhat new tradition of 
basing movies on books and fol
lowing their story line, this film 
takes us to a world much differ
ent  and much scarier  than 
that of the original Boris Karloff 
Frankenstein of the 30s.
As with the book, the film be
gins with Captain Walton (Aidan 
Quinn) trying to reach the North 
Pole. After striking an iceberg, 
he and his crew encounter Fran
kenstein, who tells Walton the 
tale that is the movie.
Directed by critically acclaimed 
actor and director Kenneth 
Branagh (Henry V, Much Ado 
About Nothing), this film stars 
Branagh as Victor Frankenstein, 
a man whose quest for creating 
life from dead tissue culminates 
in his creation of a monster, 
played by Robert DeNiro (.Raging 
Bull, Cape Fear). Along with these 
two talented actors are Tom Hulce 
CAmadeus), Helena Bonham 
Carter CHowards End), and John 
Cleese.
Branagh delivers a spirited, 
driven performance as Victor 
Frankenstein, the obsessed doc
tor who, after the death of his 
mother, sought essentially to
wipe out death. Frankenstein 
does not consider the potentially 
negative consequences of his cre
ation; he is very optimistic, and is 
sure that anything he creates will 
be beneficial to mankind. He 
makes no contingency plans in 
case something goes wrong.
When the creature is given life, 
Frankenstein realizes that the 
beauty of the dream vanished, 
and in fact he created a monster. 
The creature which he spent 
months toiling over and building 
suddenly fills his heart with fear 
and hate at a glance.
DeNiro gives a chilling and sym
pathetic portrayal of the monster 
who wants to be good, but is driven 
by Victor to hate and kill. Helena 
Bonham Carter was given a 
rather shallow Elizabeth, but her 
talent allows us to see past the 
undeveloped character.
While this film was definitely 
one of the better book-to-film
ywu cnICbt Is cu Martinis
By JON SLENK
Tartan Staffwriter
Artist: Sam Phillips 
Album: Martinis & Bikinis
AH right, now here we have a kind of tough call. 
This disc is musically and lyrically good, but 
Sam, baby, your voice is just a little bit, well,... 
annoying. The first two tracks aren't that bad 
vocally, in fact I really like the first, but once we 
hit Same Rain, I cringe.
Since there might be people who dont find 
Sams voice grating, I will try to focus objectively 
on the music. The album reminds me quite a bit 
of Sun 60 (who I think are better, overall, by the: 
way) in its strumming guitars and straight forGheck out Baby, I Can't Please You, a good, 
bongo, finger bell, and sitar tune. When I Fall
has a good electric rhythm guitar backdrop, 
Same Changes is a very R.E.M. like tune, and 
Fighting with Fire has an enticing rail road 
pulse which gets kind of dogged by Sams harmo
nizing.
While I Need Love has entirely too much of 
that  harmonizing, that is  for me to really 
enjoy, I think the lyrics are pretty good stuff.
Wheel of the Broken Voice is a driving coun
try tune with good electric gangly guitars. Last, 
but not least, is Gimme Some Truth, a cover of 
the John Lennon song.
So there ya go. The musicis good and the lyrics 
dont particularly gleam, but they arent par
ticularly dull, boring, or dumb. Were it not for 
Sams voice, Id give this album a big thumbs up.
If you havent heard her singing, I suggest 
listening to some of the songs a couple of times 
before buying the disc. If you know you like Sam, 
then you should be buying this album.
By RICHARD SMOLEN
Tartan Acting Copy Manager
Meredith Willsons The Music 
I Man has all the ingredients of 
the traditional American musi
cal. The setting is a small 
midwestem town, the lead char
acters fall in love, and everything 
ends happily in the grand finale. 
\ All the ingredients, that is, ex
cept for good music.
There really are no hummable 
tunes; The Music Man is a collage 
of upbeat Sousa-style marches 
which is unfortunate, since this 
j! show is performed by the CMU 
Music Department. Their CFA 
colleagues, in the Department of 
Architecture, could have told 
them: Its hard to build a master
piece without a good blueprint.
Its also hard to build anything 
without the right tools. The Mu
sic Man requires spectacle to suc
ceed  or at least to take ones 
| mind off of the cheesy plot  but 
the sparse props and scenery were 
\ almost abstract, hinting at set
ting rather than hammering it 
Usually.
Many songs could have revealed 
more about the story in choreograPhy, but too often the chorus
stood in a semi-circle or in ran
dom groupings, and in solos the 
movement was often aimless. 
Much of the problem was 
Bellefield Hall itself. It is a lovely 
building, but lacks an orchestra 
pit. The orchestra, on floor level 
with the audience, proved too 
much of an obstacle to overcome.
But the performersthe CMU 
voice majors, the orchestra, and a 
group of talented kids  gave 
this show their all. As Professor/ 
Salesman Harold Hill, Jason 
Poole had an impressive stage 
presence, and an even more im
pressive voice. He was matched 
by Robin Korsin as Marian Paroo, 
whose sweet soprano filled every 
inch ofBellefield Auditorium. The 
quarreling school board became 
a harmonious barbershop quar
tet, and the orchestra conducted 
by Robert Page played those 
American tunes with vigor.
The Music Department has 
mounted a full production, how
ever, not simply a concert. The 
audience is asked to sit for three 
hours to see, as well as hear, a 
story, butthe visuals rarely match 
the music. The choreography and 
direction came together only 
twice: on the train in a fun open
conversions I have seen in a while, 
there were a few points where the 
film would skew away from the 
book, change a few sequences, 
and add a few where none existed 
before. I feel that those changes, 
while well-intended, endedup de
tracting from the original story 
as it was meant to be told. I guess 
that is the price to pay for origi
nality in Hollywood.
Most distracting is Branaghs 
use of the camera during many 
scenes, including that of the cre
ation scenes. Its just that the 
idea of spinning around a scene 
or object very quickly is not that 
appealing to me, especially when 
Im in the front row of the the
ater.
Also, there is a bit of blood and 
gore, since DeNiros character is 
composed of many different body 
parts. But once you get past that, 
the film is enjoyable and well 
worth seeing.
For musical trip try Acid
By JON SLENK
Tartan Staffwriter
Artist: Various Artists 
Album: The Acid Jazz Test, 
part two
I shall attempt to expand on 
my conclusion about this disc 
(buy it!)... Weve got some good 
stuff here, kids. The disc is a
Ladbroke Grove.) Actually, 
thats a good thing  liking 
them, that issince they com
prise (four out of 11 tracks) a 
little over a third of the album.
Other favorites? Peace Bu
reau, Vibe Providin, a 
funktastic rap, Sound Assem
bly, Stoned Again, an easy 
going, soulful tune; As I huff 
and I puff and blow your mind
1994 Moonshine Music
Is it funky? Give it the Acid Jazz Test.
sweet, swirling blend of styles, 
from funk and rap to bongobeat tango jazz.
My favorites are probably the 
instrumentals: A Ones Take 
Me To The Casbah [sic], the 
Korg frog sounding Heavy 
Shifts 90 Degrees In The 
Shade, Bonjour Monsieur 
Basies Le Main Gauche de 
Fats WallerYanother frog 
tune,) and Danny Saber,
with some good stuff ... and 
Brooklyn Funk Essentials, 
Stickman Crossing The 
Brooklyn Bridge which has 
horns (mmm, horns).
Thats, what, (4+3 = 7 out of 11 tracks) just over two-thirds 
of everything on the disc? The 
remaining four tracks I like 
just fine, too, but Im going to 
let you check them out for your
self.
.SWrt Music Man cekpt tceip
ing number and in the library 
later in Act I.
Both scenes were a joy to watch; 
the distinct actions blended into 
the choreography and told a clear 
story. But many times the actors 
were simply lost on a vast, empty 
stage, with only one or two set 
pieces and one or two dance steps. 
Or the chorus would stand in a 
semicircle while the featured 
singer would stand center stage.
The performers, while glorius 
in song and dance, were all rather 
self-conscious when acting. If the 
Music Department would produce 
Meredith Willsons The Music 
Man, perhaps they ought to con
sider Sondheim, where every line 
is sung. The Music Department 
also ought to consider finding a 
better space for their productions, 
seeking more support artistically 
and financially, and finding bet
ter shows to take advantage of 
the power and range of their tal
ented voice majors.
The Music Man will have two 
more performances on Nov. 11 
and 12 at 8 pm in Bellefield Hall. 
Tickets are $5, $4 with a student 
ID. Call 268-2383 for informa
tion and ticket reservations.
VpRP-oO
The Enterprise Client /Server Company"
All 10 of the top 10 companies 
in the Fortune 100 
choose Sybase.
Talk about being in good company.
Sybase delivers the only complete architecture to enable effective client/server comput
ing. Our unique open architecture helps companies solve real-world business problems, dis
tributing mission-critical business information when and where its needed.
Sybase will be at Carnegie-Mellon 
Thursday, December 1st
to interview candidates for the following positions:
Software Engineers 
Associate Software Engineers
Contact your Career Center for more details. For more information on Sybase, see our 
ad on page 100 of Job Choices, Science and Engineering. Sybase is an equai opportunity 
employer.
Be in good company. Interview with Sybase.______
)

---------------------------------------------------

19Oynp yekceo h .ekopi:p SpFFuo h  wulpCbpk Nvv4
RqIuok Ospkert 2pbIc bFpo2t jezzkudk
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
Artist: Squonk Opera 
Album: howandever 
Suggested Tracks: Inside Height, 
Unusual Mrs. Spitz, whistle & spit
The
The Pittsburgh music scene is a funny and 
strange one; artists pop out of the woodwork
what better city for Squonk Opera to show loading into The Unusual Mrs. Spitz, a 
up? tale of a senile woman who asks questions
out of nowhere, for no reason, and shows up 
everywhere the narrator runs, no matter 
how hard she tries to avoid her.
Vocalist Kate Prima Donna Aronson also 
busts loose with her outlook on the egotism 
inherent in the male species in the jazzy
The first time I had heard of Squonk Op
era was about a year ago, when they began 
auditioning bassists. But for Squonk Opera, 
no ordinary bassist will do; to play with 
Squonk, youve gotta have that feel, that 
stuff, that funk that makes their innovative 
style work. And although I havent 
made it out to one of their gigs yet (and
and just start getting as much press as they the operative word is yet), the style
can, and, if theyre a 
good band, they obtain 
a dam good following 
in this city alone.
Bands that seem to 
have made it with the 
folks around here are 
too varied to general
ize a type or style of 
music that Pitts
burghers enjoy. When 
the Clarks are playing 
down the street from 
Rusted Root, right 
around the comer from 
a Thickhead Grin/ 
Frampton Brothers
comes through on 
howandever, the 
bands first EP re
lease. The album 
starts off with the 
overturish Inside 
Height, which in
stantly makes the lis
tener aware: If you 
didnt come for 
uniqueness, and you 
cant stand style 
changes, better back 
up, because this al
bum is full of em.
This track stops dead cold.
 Squonk Opera
Squonk Opera's eclectic style amuses and amazes 
listeners.
*____~_______________ w . 5 Squonk Opera and leaves us with a beaugig, and A.T.S. just Squonks debut album shatters the barrier tiftll synth hum (deiivered,
keeps popping up evbetweenmusicandtheatrlcs' no doubt, by Jackie
erywhere, boasting their new Shimmydisc triKapellmeister Dempsey), which molds into 
umphs, you know what an eclectic scene it 
really is.
What better place, then, for a group whose 
style crosses the boundaries of pop, jazz, blues, 
and alternative, while at the same time pre
senting a theatrical aspect? In other words,
a Floydian track called Jole Du Fromage. 
Along the way, the band also grooves to the 
excellent bass riffs of Brian Basso Buffo 
Berkheiser, which segues into the shuffle 
beat laid down by Akshay Percussionisto 
Goel and Sean Glocksonic Brennan, unfunk groove whistle & spit (complete with 
Steve Impressario OHeams excellent saxwork).
In short, howandever puts forth an ambi
tious debut, as well as an entertaining hour 
of music. Get it for those days when you just 
want to listen to something, but you cant 
figure out what. Because no matter what 
style youre looking for you, I can guarantee 
you, the Squonkersll get arouned to it even
tually.
D:iebFp PFeopct edn:plp tckuoi DuFFuwIs
By MANOO HALATI
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Artist: Digable Planets 
Album: Blowout Comb
It has been said that every poet is a thief; 
whoever believes this has obviously not heard 
of Digable Planets. A hip-hop trio, whose 
style of rap/poetry is unique. They first 
broke on to the mainstream last year, 
with their debut album Reachin (a new 
refutation of time and space). This album 
combined jazz and hip-hop and brought 
both types of music to a new level.
On their new album Blowout Comb, the trio 
out of Brooklyn is back with the creativity, 
jazz, and hip-hop that was to be expected. 
With Ladybugs cool, hypnotic rhymes, 
Doodlebugs straightforward imagery of New 
York life, and Butterflys manipulation of 
words, Blowout Comb has proved itself to be a 
powerful sequel.
It is not, however, just a regurgitation of 
Reachin. This album proves to be a lot darker.
and poutive manner, and it incorporates 
new themes as well.
The album also deals with childhood 
(Doodlebug is a new father), having fnn, 
death, and much more. All this is done with 
poetry, hip-hop, and jazz. Musically, they 
are as strong as ever. All the songs were 
produced and written entirely by the group. 
The songs are not the typical verse 
followed by a chorus followed by an
other verse followed by another cho
rus, etc.
All the songs have completely dif
ferent styles, but bring the album 
together in a smooth jazzy flavor. AlDoodlebug, and Butterfly. The struggle of though all the songs are strong, in my opinThe beats are harder to dance to  but they 
groove like hell. The albums opening track 
The May 4th Movement Starring Doodle
bug describes how life in Brooklyn has 
affected each one of them, as well as the 
black community in general.
The album then takes you on a journey of 
the world through the eyes of Ladybug,
The beats are harder to dance 
to  but they groove like hell.
political prisoners, the problems with rap 
music, the importance of Afro-centricty, and 
calls for the solidarity of women are all 
expressed.
This may make you think that this is just 
another politically charged rap album, but 
you would be very wrong because the album 
has a lot more depth. Although it does deal 
with these subjects, it does so in a creative
ion the album peaks with Black Ego and 
For Comers, both of which have a mellow 
hypnotic groove.This album combines intel
ligence, gangster slang, jazz, funk, and hip 
hop to make a unique and positive groove. 
With the rise and redefinition of hip-hop to 
a new level in the past few years, Digable 
Planets has definitely carved their own niche 
in this new form of hip-hop.
gpwFpcc nutct pmn:b:c uD ekdeop 2:tdulpk:pt
HEWLETT, from page L7
images wholeness. Once the aes
thetic and logical aspects have
:kson Tam/ Tartan Photographer 
Artifacts at Hewlett Gallery
been expressed, the last thing is 
to analyze the image according to 
its form and distinguish it in your 
imagination. These are methods 
that James Joyce, as well as I, 
use to capture the beauty pre
sented in the art form. The tmth 
is that I cant say whether the 
exhibition will be as effective for 
you as it was for me. I 
would not undermine
! the credibility for Lyons 
work because it has 
shown to be appealing 
as it creates archeology 
and challenges our as
sumptions and percep
tions. Beauvais Lyons 
himself, I believe, would 
have labeled his fiction 
as credible material that 
exposes different styles 
of visual image as well 
as writing into a par
ticular culture. As 
Lyons said, I give form 
to Aazudian art and 
scholarship. Indeed, he 
has.
I walked away from 
Hewlett Gallery with 
the conviction that the 
question thrown at me 
early at the exhibition 
 How close do you play your 
cards to your chess?  was an
swered. If you really want to 
know, stop by Hewlett. I am sure 
what might seem like a traveling 
exhibit will amaze you.
Jackson Tam/Tartan Photographer 
This is a unique collection of vessels being shown in Hewlett Gallery. 
Some have rare features, like an inverted spout.
ARE YOU A VICTIM OF:
1. An Accident
2. Improper Medical Care
3. Dangerous Products
IF SO, THEN CALL THE LAW OFFICES OF 
GARY STEINER ESQ.
South Hills Monroeville
Office ne xford Centre Office255-3777
Data Processing
Just imagine where our 
Campus Interviews 
could lead you!
You could find yourself in sunny Tampa, Florida
CulTOMFBlcmte PP..rt!J"ity will TIME CUSTOMER SERVICE, a division ol Time Warner inc. Our magazine fulfillment division, which supports 10 million subscriptions and $800 million 
in payments currently has exceptional full-time opportunities for:
PROGRAMMERS
Working with our high-calibre team of programmers, your primary responsibility will be to assist in tne development and maintenance of very larqe subscription files. We will rely on you to develop
ufr? E~W Knowfad^ C^rTSoTsBaLd
strong PCsSs We r6qUir6 Permanem resldenc>'' reliable ,ranspaion and* 
Please join us for our
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Wp2opt2eawulpCbpk v,1994
and ex<^^gryeaMour?d^activiUe*s.men**0n ^rl0nc^PeoPle affordable housing^ 
We look forward lo seeing you on Wednesday, November 9 1994 See vourSSfgaSKeuu*MSS
Time Customer Service, Inc.A Division of Time Warner
P:zze kecp2
The Pizza Reviews
by Jon Slenk and the Pizza Review Board
Little Italy, 
Oakland 621-2366
We lined up Little Italy, which is located just by Tela Ropa 
and Wendys in Oakland, on Euler Way. We arent sure how long 
theyve been around, but its probably more than a year, so it 
isnt like they are going out of business soon. In fact, Mike, the 
manager with whom we talked, says that they are adding the 
Philadelphia Steak Co.s menu to their already quite extensive 
one, which includes pizza, wedgies, hoagies, salads, pasta, and 
more.
The Pepperoni
Upon opening the box of the pepperoni pie, we were greeted 
with a quite appealing sight. There was a fair abundance of 
pepperoni, and the odor had us ready to dive in to our first piece. 
The first thing I noticed was the sauce. It was quite zesty in a 
sweet sort of way, with a good tomato quality to it. Other 
reviewers eloquently commented, it was sweet and fragrant, 
and not overpowering. Indeed.
The pepperoni was probably the next taste that impressed us. 
Unlike most, this was smoky, not just salty pepperoni. Good 
deal. Unfortunately, the cheese was less impressive. We thought 
it was okay upon first contact with ones palate, however, it 
quickly became apparent that it was somewhat grainy, rubbery 
and just a bit too salty. Oh, well. Finally, the crust. Decent, yet 
nothing to write home about.
The Managers Special
The other pizza was a Philly cheese steak with peppers, 
mushrooms, and onions. Pretty much the sauce, crust, and 
cheese were exactly the same as on the pepperoni pie. One of the 
reviewers was most impressed by the fact that the vegetable 
toppings were cooked before they were put on the pizza. Not a lot 
of people do that. Par-cooked vegetables just are not acceptable! 
Pre-cooking, continues the commentary, properly releases the 
flavours, filling ones mouth with a rich taste sensation, rather 
than mere bland, crunchy cellulose. The meat was good. Even 
those of us who attempt to be more vegetarian than not found 
themselves enjoying the fleshy dead cow. (Mmmm, dead cow!)
The Numbers
Sauce: Our lightning team of pizza analyzers gave a high 
score of 8, and a low of 7.5.
Crust: Here we have a high of 6 and a low of 5. Just a tad over 
average.
Cheese: Again, a high of 6 and a low of 5.
Pepperoni: A high score of 9 and a low of 8.5 means we all 
found it extraordinarily good.
Special Toppings: Its unbelievable, folks: A high score of 10 
(yes, t-e-n!), and a low of 8.
The Bottom Line
The pepperoni goes for $6.99, while the special we got is listed 
at $10.90, both 16 pies. There are other specials available (if 
you pick up, its $3.99), and coupons as well, so you can probably 
get even better value for your money if you hunt around for 
them. If we average our numbers, we get the warm fuzzy rating 
of 7.5. Worth checking out!
:llltifelte 
n - - ,
bthing rounds 
out your BA 
like our MAP
Global Finance Technology Division 
Information Session 
Wednesday, November 16th, 6PM-8PM 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Porter Hall, Room 125B 
Refreshments will be served
Fuk e bpccpk Fuuk ec bIt:optt 
duot:2pk .:c:beok't iFubeF kpedn 
eo2 ussukcIo:c:pt. OIk 
SeoeipCpoc/ypdno:deF Attud:ecp 
PkuikeC sIct auI ec cnp npekc uD 
e skpC:pk D:oeod:eF tpkl:dpt 
ukieo:zec:uo w:cn nIo2kp2t uD 
sku2Idct eo2 tpkl:dptcnuIteo2t 
uD bkeodnpteo2 e tIbtceoc:eF 
skptpodp :o ulpk v0 duIock:pt.
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/D/V.
Citibank. As Global As It Gets.
CITIBANK/<oj

---------------------------------------------------

Ns CckCn  iCcnsIhs vsoopn  g ,pmstbsc ReeWhn
WHMm
Thursday, November 10
Dersu Uzala
With a name like Dersu Uzala, you know youre in 
luck. This film, directed by famous Japanese guy 
Stephen Spielrock  aka Akira Kurosawa  is 
about a Japanese guy and a Russian guy who hang 
out in Siberia and get close and hunt things. Hell of 
a plot.
Kurosawa is a well-known director whose works 
include his poignantDreams and Seven Samurai as 
well as the smash hit The Flintstones. This film 
stars foreign guys Maxin Munzuk as the gentle 
hunter and Yuri Solomine as the gentle guy who is 
being taught by the gentle hunter how to hunt 
gently. It is rated G, so dont go looking for breasts 
and bad words, but if you like Siberia and gentle 
hunters, this film is for you. Four stars. John Bob 
says check it out.
At 5, 7:30,10, and 12:30.
Friday, November 11
Maverick
Maverick is a comedy western. I suppose that 
means people laugh when the bad guys get shot and 
horses kick people in the fambily jewels. This mov
ies stars Mel Gibson, Jodie Foster, and Jaimes 
Garner as a bunch of gamblers that threaten to 
shoot people and evidently watch horses kickpeople 
in the fambily jewels.
Directed by Stephen Spielrock, this film is about 
western comedy and gambling, which are both very 
funny topics. It also deals with the incessant objec
tification of the other. See it or become a culturally 
uneducated lout. Bill Bob says yo yo ma.
Editors note: this film was actually directed by 
William Goldman.
At 5, 7:30,10, and 12:30.
Saturday, November 12
Forrest Gump
OK. Now its not like I can insult this movie or 
anything, because someone will probably track me 
down and remove major organs. Whats really neat 
about it, though, is that you can turn the title into 
Forrest Pump, Forrest Lump, Forrest Slump, 
Forrest Dumb, and many, many more isomor
phisms. Have fun, kids. Im not a smart man, but I 
do know what a good  but a little cheese-ass  
movie is. And this is a good and a cheese-ass movie.
This movie is like a box of chocolates: youll never 
know which one is going to knock out one of your 
fillings and cause you to cry. The story focuses on 
Forrest Gump, a runner, who does lots of things like 
play ping-pong and get shot in the butt. And it 
always has a way of saying things so youll under
stand them.
Based on a book by Winston Groom, this film 
stars Tom Hanks as Forrest and a great many other 
stars who all add to the mystery and gentle wonder 
that is good old Gumps life. In the film there are 
Gump ping-pong paddles, Gump interviews, Gump 
butt-shots, Gump funny shrimp stories, Gump shoes, 
Gump babies, Gump girls, and Gump-related Elvis 
moves. Thats about it.
See it with someone you love and tickle them, or 
cover their eyes and ears at the more poignant and 
gentle parts to piss them off and make them miss 
half the movie. Seventy-eight stars. John Bob says 
Gump this, buddy.
At 5, 7:30,10, and 12:30.
Sunday, November 13
My Degeneration
Talking bout my d-d-d-degeneration is a tough 
thing. This famous Who musical, captured for pos
terity on film, features songs like Feel Me, Bite Me 
and Bolus Wizard. Ok, not really.
Directed by Stephen Spielrock, this film is actu
ally about the disintegration of the world as we 
know it, and I feel fine. Artsy and fartsy, the film 
deals with nihilism and tight pants. See it and have 
so much fun youll wet your bad self. No stars 
because stars suck. Jon Moritsugu (a.k.a. the direc
tor) says check it out.
At 6, 8,10, and midnight.
By STEPHEN SPIELROCK 
(a.k.a. JOHN BIGGS)
Indy tsucF:inct :o2pspo2poc duC:dt
COMIC BOOK 
CHRONICLES
by Jason Andracki
I received a free sample copy of 
Indy magazine (cover price $2.95). 
As soon as I opened the envelope 
containing issue # 7 of Indy, I was 
impressed. When I read Editor 
Jeff Masons post on 
netnews .rec. arts, comics. 
misc searchingfor review
ers of his magazine, I was 
expecting more of a 
fanzine than a magazine.
I figured on seeing a handstapled, xeroxed book.
Instead, I was pleas
antly surprised with a 48- 
page magazine with a full 
color cover by Don 
Simpson (Megaton Man,
Don Simpsons Bizarre 
Heroes). And on quality 
paper, no less! Through 
the letters column, I dis
covered that each install
ment of Indy is dedicated 
to a particular genre of 
independent comics. Is
sue #7 focuses on the 
light-hearted side of 
indies, delivering inter
views with Jeff Smith 
CBone) and Brian Clifton 
(Diebold), as well as an 
article on Don Simpson.
Jeff Mason must be 
commended on his inter
view with Smith because 
although the interview 
took place in January, it 
is still a very informa
tive, timely article.
In addition to the space 
dedicated to more humor
ous independents, the 
staff at Indy put together 
some other interesting
articles. Theres an excellent 
group of reports on the summers 
conventions, all of them focusing 
on the independent publishers 
rather than Marvel and DC.
My favorite part ofIndy is prob
ably the Indy News. This is ar
ranged almost like an Associated 
Press report (two pages too short, 
though) that gives you the latest 
breaking news in the small press 
world, like Neil Gaimans pos
sible collaboration with Larry 
Marder on a Tales of the 
Beanworld trade paperback.
You want reviews? Well, Indy 
has over 10 pages of reviews of
almost every independent youve 
ever heard of, and scores that you 
havent. This section is an excel
lent way to find out about some 
hard to find books if youre look
ing to add to your reading list. So 
far I havent struck out on any of 
these books.
Although not as glossy as Wiz
ard or Hero, nor as in-depth as 
Comic Book Buyers Guide, Indy 
is certainly worthy of those ranks.
Actually, it is unfair to com
pare Indy to those publications 
since they (supposedly) chronicle 
the entire comic industry, 
whereas Indy has its own little
1994 Don SimpsonWith in-depth interviews and reviews, Indy gives their readers an honest insight to 
the independent comics industry, which makes it well worth the $2.95 tag.
niche in the independent arena.
Indy must also be praised, not 
only for covering the indepen
dent comics world with its re
views and articles, but also for 
bringing other independent books 
to the readers attention through 
advertising.
Now I know the cynical read
ers (no, not Matt Feazells 
Cynicalman) are thinking, So? 
Thats just to make money, but 
youre wrong.
Out of the eight ads in Indy  
which brings more praise since 
most magazines dealing with 
comics are cluttered with ads  
five are traded ads (in which 
independent publishers 
trade an ad space in their 
book for an ad in Indy).
Although the magazine is 
very impressive and reason
ably priced, there is still 
room for improvement.
The Indy News should 
definitely be expanded, and 
some of the articles go 
unattributed. Also, the re
views would be easier to 
follow if they all followed 
the same format. These are 
all minor grievances, 
though, so they shouldnt 
keep anyone from picking 
up a copy.
Since Indy is pretty much 
impossible to find in Pitts
burgh, heres how to get 
your hands on this maga
zine. You can send email to 
indymag@aol.com for info 
about subscriptions or 
single issues, or if you are 
an America Online sub
scriber visit the Indy forum 
in the Science Fiction/Fan
tasy section.
Jason Andracki is still a 
sophomore professional 
writing major. Forget about 
Superman and SpiderMan, his RA Brian Shelleby 
is a real hero; hes getting 
an A in Physics. Worship 
him.
MANNES
COLLEGE OF MUSIC
The Orion String Quartet
Daniel Phillips, Violin 
Todd Phillips, Violin 
Steven Tenenbom, Viola 
Timothy Eddy, Violoncello
The Newman-Oltman 
Guitar Duo
Michael Newman 
Laura Oltman
Stringed Instruments
Nina Beilina, Violin 
Felix Galimir, Violin 
Shirley Givens, Violin 
Lewis Kaplan, Violin 
Ani Kavafian, Violin 
David Nadieri, Violin 
Daniel Phillips, Violin 
Todd Phillips, Violin 
Aaron Rosand, Violin 
Anne Setzer, Violin 
Sally Thomas, Violin 
Hiroko Yajima, Violin 
Lillian Fuchs, Viola 
Karen Ritscher, Viola 
Steven Tenenbom, Viola 
Walter Trampler, Viola 
Myung Wha Chung, 
Violoncello 
Timothy Eddy, Violoncello 
Melissa Meell, Violoncello 
Irene Sharp, Violoncello 
Paul Tobias, Violoncello 
Julius Levine, Double Bass 
Homer Mensch, Double Bass
Piano
Edward Aldwell 
Arkady Aronov 
Stephanie Brown 
Vladimir Feltsman 
Richard Goode 
Grant Johannesen 
Lilian Kallir 
Leon Pommers 
Marie Powers 
Josef Raieff 
Thomas Sauer 
Peter Serkin 
Nina Svetlanova 
Diane Walsh
Organ and Church Music
Ford Lillerstedt 
McNeil Robinson
Harp
Susan Jolles 
Lucile Lawrence
Timpani and Percussion
Norm Freeman 
Ben Herman 
Howard Van Hyning 
Glen Velez
Artistry 8 Community
At Mannes they go together. The skills, understanding and originality of 
artistry are fostered by a superb faculty in a caring and supportive 
community. That's why Mannes graduates succeed.
Woodwinds and Brass
Judith Mendenhall, Flute 
Elaine Douvas, Oboe 
John Ferrillo, Oboe 
Mark Hill, Oboe 
Linda Strommen, Oboe 
William Blount, Clarinet 
Peter Simenauer, Clarinet 
David Carroll, Bassoon 
Leonard Hindell, Bassoon 
Judith Ledair, Bassoon 
Allen Won, Saxophone 
Ranier Delntinis, French horn 
David Jolley, French horn 
Philip Myers, French horn 
Mel Broiles, Trumpet 
Vincent Penzarella, Trumpet 
Per Brevig, Trombone 
David Taylor, Bass trombone 
Stephen Johns, Tuba
Conducting
Michael Charry, Orchestral 
Amy Kaiser, Choral
Voice
Richard Barrett 
Thomas Cultice 
Peter Elkus 
Ruth Falcon 
Bonnie Hamilton 
Antonia Lavanne 
Martin Lies 
Dan Marek 
Linda Pierce Hunter 
Marian Thompson 
Theodor Uppman
Diction
Marianne Barrett, German 
Nico Castel, French.
German & Italian 
Kathryn LaBouff,
English 
Barbara Peters, Italian 
Palma Toscani, French
Movement
Philip Burton
Opera
Paul Echols, Chairman 
Christopher Alden 
Renato Capecchi 
Will Crutchfield 
Joan Dornemann 
Neal Goren 
Benton Hess 
Rhoda Levine
New York Audition Dates:
beoIeka 4- Nvv5; 
FpbkIeka 2  Sekdn 3-Nvv5; 
Sea 23  Sea 26- Nvv5; 
AIiItc Nvv5 2ecpt 
cu bp eoouIodp2.
Chicago Auditions:
beoIeka 3NNvv5 
ec F:op Akct BI:F2:oi
Los Angeles Auditions:
FpbkIeka NNvv5 ec ynp SIt:d 
.pocpk uD 1ut AoipFpt .uIoca
San Francisco Auditions:
FpbkIeka 2- Nvv5 ec Wek 
SpCuk:eF Ospke guItp
Classical Guitar
Frederic Hand 
Michael Newman
Composition
Christine Berl 
Robert Cuckson 
Charles Jones 
David Loeb 
David Tcimpidis
Contemporary
Ensemble
Madeleine Shapiro, 
Director
Percussion Ensemble
Jim Preiss, Director
Historical Performance 
Ensembles
The Mannes Baroque 
Chamber Players,
Nancy Wilson, Director 
The Mannes Camerata, 
Paul Echols, Director 
The Mannes Baroque 
Ensemble, Arthur Haas, 
Director
Techniques of Music
Elizabeth Aaron 
Edward Aldwell 
Poundie Burstein 
Terry Champlin 
Robert Cuckson 
Leo Edwards 
Steven Freides 
David Gagne 
David Loeb 
Mei-Mei Meng 
William Needelman 
Frank Nemhauser 
Christopher Park 
Carl Schachter
History and Literature 
of Music
Frederic Fehleisen, M.A., 
Histoiy of A(usic 
Deborah Davis, M.A., M.S.", 
Graduate Studies 
L. Michael Griffel, Ph.D., 
Graduate Studies.
Literature of Music 
Charles Kaufman, Ph.D. 
History of Music 
Kenneth Stern, Ph.D., 
Studies in Opera History
Programs of study: 
Bachelor of Music,
Bachelor of Science,
Master of Music,
Diploma and PostGraduate Diploma, 
Professional Studies 
Certificate
Major studies:
All orchestral instruments, 
piano, harpsichord, organ, 
voice and opera, guitar, 
composition, theory and 
conducting.
Dormitory rooms. 
Scholarships awarded/ 
All majors
For additional 
information 
about the College, 
Application and 
Audition appointment: 
Write or call 
Marilyn Groves,
Director of Admissions, 
The Mannes College 
of Music,
150 West 85th Street,
New York, N.Y. 10024, 
800-292-3040 or 
212-580-0210.
New School for 
Social Research

---------------------------------------------------

Student Dance Ensemble will be performing 
on November 18 & 19 at the Boyce Campus 
Theatre, 595 Beatty Road. General admission is 
$7. Call 325-6743 for reservations.
Settie Concert, featuring original music in addi
tion to covers of Janis Joplin, Bonnie Raitt, 4 Non 
Blondes and more, will take place on November 19 
at the Student Center Drill Deck A01 at 8 pm. 
Sponsored by the AB Coffeehouse. For more 
information, cotitact Jill Goodall at 268-2105.
Learn to Dance the Cajun two-step/waltz & 
Zydeco! Next class will run on Monday at 
Lucianos, 1023 Forbes avenue, (across from 
Duquesne University). Dance instruction and 
dancing to recorded music starts at 8:30 pm. Jam 
session starts at 9:30 pm. Bring your instru
ments! Beginners are welcome. For more infor
mation, call 242-4597.
Copyright 1994 by Paramount Pictures 
Tom Hanks stars as an unlikely hero In the box office summer hit Forrest Gump.
.ART
In the Interest of Words runs from November 8 through November 13 at the Forbes Gallery, 
5200 Forbes Avenue. A reception for this exhibi
tion will be held on Friday. In the subART: Dave 
Shim, this Tuesday through November 13. Gal
lery Hours are: Monday Closed, Tuesday 12-6 
pm, Wednesday 1:30-6 pm, Thursday thru Sun
day 12-6 pm. For more information, call 268- 
2081.
Hansel and Gretel will be presented by the 
Playhouse Jr. Childrens Theatre Company at 
the Point Park College Playhouse, 222 Craft 
Ave., through November 20. Performances are 
held on Saturdays at 11 am and 2:30 pm, Sun
days at 2:30 pm. Tickets are $6, available at the 
Playhouse Box Office or by phone with VISA/ 
MasterCard ($1 service fee charge per total credit 
card order) by calling 621-4445.
Reconstruction of an Aazudian Temple will 
be on display through November 22 at the Hewlett 
Gallery. The exhibit features relics, photographs 
and other seemingly real artifacts of an imagi
nary civilization conjuredup in themind of artist 
Beauvais, Lyons. JLiyonS will prepent a jptibljci: 
lecture-on-Mock-Academics on November 2 'at 
5 pm in Breed Hall, MM103. The lecture will be 
followed by the opening reception at the gallery, 
mmore information, call 268-3877.
Loot, by-^oe'Orton, will be performed-atthe CityTheatre, 57 South 13th Street through Sunday. 
One of the great farces of contemporary theatre, 
Loot is described as Arsenic and Old Lace with an 
attitude. Purchase tickets at the box office by 
calling 431-CITY. Please contact Sara Durkacs 
at 431-4440 for further information.
University-wide call for artists!!! The Forbes 
Gallery will host the second annual Juried PhotoFilm-Video Show from November 15 through 
November 27. Art work will be. accepted on 
Sunday, November 13, 1994 from 12 to 3 pm. 
Students may submit one to two examples of 
recent work in photographic media. A jury com
mittee will select the top three entries in each 
medium for awards. All work submitted will be 
exhibited. Announcement of awards and recep
tion for the exhibition will be on November 18, 
from 7 to 9 pm. For more information, contact 
Forbes Gallery Co-Directors, Katie Welty (mw4q) 
and Kristen Uhler (au00)>
Opportunity for Artists! The Hewlett Gallery 
is accepting proposals for'its 1995-96 season. 
Site-specific, collaborative and multidisciplinary 
projects in science, visual, and performing arts 
enjoy a special welcome. For application forms 
and additional information contact Petra Fallaux 
at the Hewlett Gallery, College of Fine Arts, 
#111, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213-3890 or call 268-3877. Deadline is 
December 9,1994.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-denominational student study group, provides a 
weekly forum for inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Regular meetings are held Tues
days at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning Room 
236. Call Dave Weiner at 431-4047 for more infor
mation.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Thursdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A in the main 
gym. For more information, email cd2b, call 862- 
2151, or subscribe to assocs.KenpoJKarate.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in Doherty Hall 
Room 1212. For more information, call 268-2114.
Student Alumni Relations Council (SARC) 
meets every Wednesday at 5 pm at the Alumni 
House. New members are always welcome. For 
more information, email ks59 or subscribe to 
assocs.SARC.
Kappa chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, the na
tional service fraternity, invites you to attend our 
meetings, which are held every Thursday at 8:30 
pm at MM103 (Breed Hall). See our bulletin board 
near the front of Doherty Hall for information on 
upcoming"Bctmties. 1^
CarnegieMellon Vegetarians meets at.9pmon 
Thursday nights in DH1217. For more informa
tion, subscribe to assocs.cmu-vegetarians.
The CMU Shotokan Karate Club meets on 
Thursdays-at 7:30 pm and Saturdays at 11:30 ani 
in Thistle Hall in the gym. Advanced classes me't 
on Tuesdays in Activity Room A in the gym at 6:30 
pm.
MUSIC
MEETINGS
Improve your foreign language skills over 
lunch with the Modem Languages Department: 
Tuesdays: French Table at 2:30, Russian Table 
at 12:30; Wednesdays: Spanish Table at 11:30; 
Thursdays: German Table at 11:30; Fridays: 
Japanese Table at noon. All groups meet in the 
Morewood Cafeteria with the exception of the 
French Table, which meets in Baker Hall 246A.
The Fencing Club meets on Sundays (at 2 pm), 
Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays at 6:30 pm 
in the Fencing Club Room (formerly Activity 
Room B) in the main gym. For more information, 
email cd2b, call 862-2899, or subscribe to 
cmu.student.fencing.
Cincinnati alternative rockers Assponys will 
be performing with Chicago bassist Tatsu Aoki, 
and CMU avant-jazz trio 40 Stories at the 
Bloomfield Bridge Tavern on Thursday. Admis
sion is $5. Call 682-8611 for more information.
Music Man is being performed by the Carnegie 
Mellon Voice Department on Friday and Saturday 
at Bellefield Hall at 8 pm. General admission is $5. 
CMU students, faculty, and staff receive a 20 
percent discount. ContacttheConcertLineat268- 
2383 for further information.
The Flanders Recorder Quartet will have a 
single performance on Saturday at 8 pm in Synod 
Hall, 125 N. Craig Street, in Oakland. Recent 
.-winners of the coveted Musica Antiqua Competi
tion, this Belgian ensemble will perform Renais
sance and Baroque music  and a 20th-century 
surprise  on over 60 recorders. Remain after
wards for an informative question-and-answer 
period. Tickets are available at Classical Tracks, 
CMU Student Center, Pitt Student Union or phone 
at 682-7262. Presented by the Renaissance and 
Baroque Society.f* VVWThe Carnegie Mellon Trio will be performing at 
the Mellon Institute Auditorium on Saturday at 3 
pm. Admission is $10, CMU students, faculty, and 
staff receive a 20 percent discount. For more 
information, Gfq tact the Concert Line at 268-2383.
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic Orches
tra will be performing on Sunday at the Carnegie 
Music Hall at 8 pm. General admissionis $5. CMU 
students, faculty, and staff receive a 20 percent 
discount. For more information, contact the Con
cert Line at 268-2383.
Organist Paul J. Haebig from St. Michaels and 
All Angels Lutheran Church will be performing 
Pentecost 25 at the Heinz Chapel on University of 
Pittburghs Oakland campus on Sunday at 9:30 
pm. This performance is part of the Pittsburgh 
Compline Choir Series.
.NOTICES
Islam: An Invitation To Think Islam Aware
ness Week will feature a number of presentations 
and discussions at Margaret Morrison A14 from 
4:30  6:30 pm: Foundations (Monday), Quran 
(Tuesday), Women (Wednesday), Christianity to 
Islam (Thursday) and Visit to Mosque (Friday). 
There will be daily information table at Doherty 
Hall. Email msa@andrew.cmu.edu for more in
formation.
Paul Rogat Loeb, author of Generation at The 
Crossroads: Apathy and Action on the American 
Campus, will speak about his findings on Monday 
at the Borders Book Shop in the South Hills at 
7:30 pm.
The Celtic Societys November Meeting will 
feature Pitt Irish Professor and famous story
teller Kevin McLaughlin entertaining and edu
cating on the subject of Irish Mythology. The 
meeting will be held this Tuesday at 8 pm in 
Porter Hall A 19. All are welcome to attend. 
Contact Scott Reilly at 268-6767 or email 
wsr@cs.cmu.edu.
Bright Galaxies and Dark Matter, award 
ceremony and lecture, will be presented on 
Wednesday at the Mellon Institute Auditorium, 
Second Floor, at 4:30 pm. A reception will follow 
immediately after the lecture. Carnegie Institute 
of Washington staff scientist Dr. Vera Rubin is 
the first astrophysicist to receive the Dickson 
Prizejn'Science from Carnegie Mellon Univer
sity.
What is GIS? What is Urban Planning? What 
is Regional Planning? What is Public and Inter
national Affairs? Learn about the '^Masters De
gree Program in Urban andRegional Planningat 
the University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of 
Public and International Affairs, 3J12 Forbes 
Quadrangle, on Friday from 3 - 5 pm. For further 
information, call 648-7640.
Career Day 1994, presented by the Economic 
Club of Pittsburgh, will be held from 7:30 -11:30 
am at The Pittsburgh Vista Hotel on Thursday. 
This program is designed to acquaint students of 
business and economics with the wide variety of 
career opportunities business and government, 
and to network with members of the Economic 
Club of Pittsburgh. For reservations or further 
questions, please do not hesitate to call Matthew 
Marlin at 396-6250.
MAYUR, an India-interest organization at Carn
egie Mellon, is organizing Diwali celebrations 
(cultural show, dinner and dance) on Friday at 7 
pm in the Mellon Institute Auditorium. Admis
sion is free for members and $8 for non-members. 
For information and tickets, email mm3m or call 
Karim at 268-2662 (day) or 362-2252 (evening).
Volunteer!!! The Office of International Educa
tion and the Global Nomads organization are 
coordinating a cultural exchange between Ameri
cans and international or transnational students 
and scholars. Volunteers are needed for Holiday 
Homestay, a program where Americans invite 
international students and scholars to their homes 
for a meal or overnight stay during Thanksgiving 
or Winter Break. If you can volunteer your time
and home to share your culture with other: 
contact the Office of International Education a 
268-3520 or email fsadv@andrew.cmu.edu.
The Jewish University Center is sponsoring) 
presentation by Jeannine Amber, a New Yort 
freelance writer, on Sunday at 7 pm. Ms. Amber 
is a young African American woman who is alst 
Jewish. She will be speaking about relation: 
between African Americans and Jews, making 
links between student organizations, and her 
personal experiences with the Nation of Islam. 
Her address will be held at the William Pitt 
Union, at the University of Pittsburgh. All are 
welcome. For more information, call Ruth Slater 
at 621-8875.
Entrepreneurs Day, Pittsburghs premier small 
business conference, will be held on November II 
at the David L. Lawrence Convention Center, 
Pre^registration deadline is Wednesday. For further details, please call 578-3481. Presented by 
th'nterpris Corporation of Pittsburgh.
Donate canned food!!! The Point Park College 
Playhouse will sSertfe as .^collections point for 
donations to the Greater Pittsburgh Community 
Food Bank until November 20. Donations c 
canned food, powdered milk, pasta, and cereals 
are being accepted, along with personal hygiene 
and household products (such as diapers, tooth, 
paste, toilet paper, and cleaning supplies). Dona
tions may be dropped off in the Playhouse lobby on 
Saturdays from 10 am-^4 pm, and Sundays from 
1-4 pm. For further information, call the ) 
house at (412) 621-4445.
FILMS
Dersu Uzala will be playing at Doherty Hall 
2210 this Thursday at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 
am.
Maverick will play Friday in Doherty Hall 2210 
at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Forrest Gump will be shown this Saturday at 5, 
7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am in Doherty Hall 2210.
My Degeneration is playing Sunday in Doherty 
Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
RELIGION
Hillels Jewish University Center will be host
ing an Israel Festival on November 16 at 7 pm at 
the Student Center Drill Deck. Everyone is wel
come to join us for middle-eastern food, Israeli 
dancing, and open discussion about the peace 
process. Please call Ruth Slater at 621-8875 to 
confirm your attendance plans, or email 
rsbj@andrew.cmu.edu.
The CMU Muslim Students Association con
ducts midday prayer at 1:40 pm in Student Center 
224 every day from Monday through Friday. We 
also have study circle on Saturdays at the same 
time and place. All are invited. E-mail 
msa@andrew.cmu.edu for more information.
Islamic Center of Pittsburgh, 4100 Bigelow 
Blvd., holds five daily prayers as well as Friday 
Prayers at 12 pm. Contact 682-5555 for more 
information on weekly study circles and other 
activities. ^
Bible Study will be hosted by Tech House 
(Roselawn 15) every Sunday night at 8 pm. All are 
invited. For more information, call 268-2484.
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes Av
enue (near Craig), will perform Eucharist every 1 
Wednesday at noon and Sunday at 11 am.
The football team visits Case Western Reserve i 
University on Saturday at 1:30 pm.
The mens & womens cross-country teams 
compete in the NCAA Mideast Regional Champi
onships at Allentown College on Saturday.
VOX PoDTull.1
V oice of ilke Peopi
Tmjusttryin to find the bridge! 
Has anybody seen the bridge? I 
aint seen the bridge! .... was a 
confounded bridge.
Peter - youre awesome! 
Thanks for all the staples and 
tape. We should have taken 
more food from Highlander.
LINDO = the torture they dont 
teach you in CSW
Miltary Man, sir!
You give the orders, sir! I like to 
assume the bottom role also, 
sir! Hope you are flexible, sir! 
- Civilian Man
Who is this Civilian Man & 
Military Man?
Jen H. - Thanks for such a fun 
BOC! Yes, I will do my resume 
now. Were taking IT over soon.
Pete, Remember one year ago 
from today? I do. I still hate 
.you. You suck.
Chin - I needed those pair of 
black socks, dude!
Hey KappaSig! You guys can 
play with our pumpkin any
time.
