THE TARIN
Volume 86, Issue 1Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania3 September 1991
Police ID equipment thieves
By FARRON W. LEVY
Tartan Acting News Editor
Lady Luck mixed with old-fashioned 
police work this summer when the ar
rest of three CMU students on charges 
of burglary led to the positive identifica
tion of the persons involved in last years 
theft of CMUs ID machine.
The ID machine is used to make and 
encode all CMU identification cards and 
its theft last October forced the recoding 
of all campus cards at considerable in
convenience for the entire campus.
According to police reports, events 
leading to the discovery began when 
CMU police observed three men leaving 
Morewood Gardens at 3:23 am on June
10, two of whom were carrying boxes.
Subsequent investigation revealed that 
H&SS junior Jason Bareford, junior 
Math/Computer Science major Michael 
Burks, and senior Physics major Peter 
Pezaris had gained access to the Dtower student storage area in Morewood 
Gardens and removed some of its con
tents. Among the items were a com
puter, stereo receiver, and a cash box. 
When police opened the cash box they 
found it to contain, among other things, 
blank photo ID cards and a photo of 
CMU junior John Henderson.
Upon investigation of the scene of 
the break-in, CMU investigator Wil
liam Kaiser discovered that one of the 
boxes opened during the theft contained 
the photo ID camera. The box itself and 
the fingerprints taken from the ID cam
era both belonged to Henderson.
CMU Police arrested Henderson, and 
through his cooperation, confirmed sus
picions that another man, former CMU 
student Aaron Tuscano, had also been 
involved with the theft. As Tuscano 
currently lives in Massachusetts, CMU 
police will begin extradition proceed
ings if he doesnt turn himself in.
I dont believe in luck, said Kaiser 
concerning this turn of events. I dont 
believe in it at all. To him, fate is a 
more accurate word. If you live a cer
tain way you are going to reap a harvest 
similar to the way you live, he said.
Kaiser has been investigating the ID 
machine theft since last fall, and while 
the Morewood incident certainly was 
Please see ID, page 3
Summer thefts rack fraternities
Fun in the Sun..
Daniel Frey/ Tartan Photo Staff Manager
Matthew Default and friends enjoy a game of volleyball on the Cut 
Saturday. Getting it out of your system is one way to prepare to return 
to classes. For more back-to-school preparation, see page LI.
By RANDY L. UDAVCAK
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
I dont think its ever been this bad, 
says Sigma Nu president Jim Wiley, 
referringto a rash of thefts which struck 
10 out of 14 fraternity houses this sum
mer. In several strikes, Wiley says 
thieves took off with the mixer and tape 
deck for the house sound system, two 
CD players, and a brothers credit card.
But the brothers of Sigma Nu got off 
easy compared to those of Delta Tau 
Delta. According to president Derrin 
Schwartz, summer thieves got away 
with the mixing board, amplifier, and 
speakers for the house sound system 
(which together value more than $2500). 
In addition, someone discharged fire 
extinguishers over the entire first floor,
inside the washing machine, the refrig
erator, and the house bar.
The brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha know 
all too well how much damage a fire 
extinguisher can cause, after vandals 
broke in through the basement window 
and sprayed the basement and main 
floors, refrigerator, freezer, and trophy 
case with the contents of three or four 
dry chemical powder fire extinguishers 
before leaving with the house micro
wave, an antique statue, and 150 CDs 
from a brothers room.
As with PiKA, the theft at DTD also 
wasnt limited to house equipment. DTD 
brother Eric Heiman thought chaining 
his mountain bike to a second floor 
railing would keep it safe. He was 
wrong. In the middle of the night, they 
just ripped the railing off the wall, said
Heiman, adding that his bike was worth 
close to $600.
Elsewhere in the quad, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon was robbed of its house TV, CD 
player, and tape deck, while Phi Kappa 
Theta is out three CD players and a 
mixing board. According to Kappa 
Sigma summer house manager Kirk 
Lenga, a series of thefts claimed a 
speaker from the house sound system 
and three beer kegs, as well as one 
brothers CD player and anothers CD 
collection. Over at Pi Lambda Phi, presi
dent Jon Caron says thieves this sum
mer made off with a VCR, assorted 
tapes, and the house microwave. Delta 
Upsilon had two VCRs stolen and four 
windows broken. Alpha Tau Omega 
lost two turntables, a mixer, and a 
Please see THEFT, page 5
Sumerth fusa ctuhfkum ni2The
ByLESLIE ZUBATY
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Student Mentor Program, 
designed to aid incoming stu
dents in adjustingto life at CMU, 
premiers this fall with approxi
mately 130 mentor-student 
pairs.
Presently the program is avail
able only to students enrolled in 
Industrial Management or Hu
manities and Social Sciences 
because of its experimental na
ture. I want to see what I am 
getting into, says junior psy
chology and political science 
major Natalie Gesmond, who de
signed the program over the 
summer. Once we are success
ful in H&SS and IM we will 
move on to a larger scale,
The program matches firstvear students with juniors and
Life at CMU is not exactly as you 
see it... it helps to have someone to 
answer questions."
 Erik Larson, second year architect
seniors of the same major and 
interests. Gesmonds goal is to 
keep the communication lines 
open, and allow incoming stu
dents to learn first-hand about 
life at CMU academically and 
socially through their mentors. 
Im not pushing for best friend
ships, she says. She simply 
hopes to provide a way for in
coming students to question and 
express concerns to someone who 
has been through it already. 
Every upperclassman enrolled 
in H&SS or IM received a letter
this summer regarding becom
ing a student mentor. First-year 
students were offered the pro
gram as they arrived on cam
pus.
Regarding the origins of the 
program, Gesmond credits Stu
dent Government President 
Hyun Shin. Shin proposed the 
idea for the project to Gesmond 
last spring and she worked with 
the suggestion all summer to 
prepare for trial implementa
tion this fall. It was a lot of hard 
Please see MENTOR, page 3
1991 Freshman Enrollment Totals
.By School
tcoV) Jco^ 20Cr~
K V)
l oo*21-
&
Figures courtesy of CMU Admissions OfficeJohn Lln/Art EditormCguthCeM lCotntCuh CmetriT3u mup rmsCmu 3nti 3nensrb hMheuk
By MATT BUS HE Y
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
On August 19, University Libraries 
released Library Information System 
II, which is designed to improve the 
accessibility of many library resources. 
While currently available only in the 
libraries, campus-wide release through 
Andrew is planned for late September.
The Library Information System II, 
or LIS II, is used to access over a dozen 
databases, such as the online catalog, 
encyclopedia, and newspaper index. 
According to Researcher for Library
Automation Denise Troll, it is an im
provement over LIS I in both speed and 
power. LIS II can handle twice as many 
users as LIS I and at a greatly im
proved performance speed. It is also 
able to handle much more information 
and is easier to use than LIS I.
There are two versions, or user inter
faces, of LIS II. The Motif version is for 
use with any UNIX workstation avail
able in the libraries themselves or cer
tain computer clusters. The vtlOO ver
sion is for use with any computer con
nected to the campus network which 
can emulate a vtlOO terminal.
According to Troll, LIS II has been in 
development since 1987, during which 
time system programmers held focus 
groups with CMU students, faculty, 
and staff to learn the needs of the users. 
Weve done an awful lot of what people 
wanted, says Troll. Weve given them 
a lot of the features theyve asked for. 
Interim Library Director Barbara 
Richards cites one such feature as the 
systems ability to expand the number 
of databases and resources online. For 
example, pages from selected journals 
will be scanned into LIS II for direct, 
full screen viewing. Computer science
and artificial intelligence journals will 
be first, followed by journals for other 
fields of study. However, such journals 
will not be available until the second 
release of LIS II in December.
Richards also calls attention to the 
significance of the new system on a 
national scale. We expect it to be the 
most advanced library system in at 
least the United States. Part of the 
reason, she says, is because the new 
library system will also be able to inter
act with libraries across the country, 
Some of the changes that were made 
will be in sync with some national li
braries. CMU already has links with 
the University of Pittsburgh Library 
and the Carnegie Library, and the po
tential is present for other libraries 
with similar systems to connect to the 
CMU system.
While last-minute bugs forced a de
lay in the campus-wide release of the 
system, users can try out LIS II in the 
University Libraries. There will also be 
a demonstration on LIS II on Friday, 
September 27, at the Hunt media class
room, from noon until 1 pm. Further 
information on LIS II is available at 
any of the University Libraries.
THEARI
Classifieds.................................14
Comics........................................L6
Diversions................................L9
Features....................................LI
Forum............................................6
Sports...........................................11
University Calendar.......L14
Vox Populi............................LI 4
 Should the U.S. begin a 
war with Canada?
See page 7.
. See if the football team can 
keep its UAA title.
See page 11.
Relive the excitement of the 
Activits Fair.
See page LI.
Prepare for the anabolic 
geek steroid.
See page L5.
Tom Clancy's latest book is 
his best yet.
See page L9.
 1990 Expanded Entertainment 
Catch the Third Animation 
Celebration in DH2210 on 
Thursday evening. Show 
times are 6, 8, and 10.
GSIA wing on time and on budget
By ANGELA KESLAR
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
& MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Construction on the new GSIA 
wing is on time and on budget, 
says Natalie Jaaffe, Associate 
Dean for External Affairs. The 
$10 million project is expected 
to be finished in December1992, 
with the first term of classes to 
be held in the new wing starting 
in January 1993.
The present GSIA building is 
bursting at the seams, accord
ing to Paul Tellers, university 
architect, who is supervising the
project along with GSIA Assis
tant Dean of Administration 
Sandra Mawhinney. The threestory wing will extend from the 
present building to Margaret 
Morrison Street.
The ground floor will have an 
entrance on Margaret Morrison 
Street and will be primarily for 
the use of students. It will in
clude a student lounge, dining 
area, computer cluster, lecture 
room, and student lockers.
The first floor of the addition 
will be the main floor and will 
have five classrooms, faculty of
fice space, and a Simulab facil
ity. The first floor will line up
with the main floor of the exist
ing structure.
The top floor of the wing will 
be the faculty floor, with faculty 
offices, conference rooms, and a 
faculty lounge. The top floor also 
has the structural potential to 
connect with the upper floor of 
the present GSIA building and 
support another floor on top of 
it, should these additions be re
quired in the future.
The appearance of the build
ing was designed with the idea 
of not only tying into the exising 
GSIA building, but also fitting 
into the architechtural context 
Please see GSIA, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 1991
THIS JUST IN...
Russian-Ukrainian alliance continues Soviet disintegration
MOSCOW (AP, August 29)  The two richest 
and most populous Soviet republics, Russia and 
the Ukraine, announced on Friday formation of a 
temporary military and economic alliance that 
appears to leave the Kremlin out in the cold.
The two republics invited other states of the 
former U.S.S.R to join their alliance, striking a 
serious blow to Mikhail S. Gorbachevs efforts to 
regain some semblance of the power he wielded 
before last weeks failed coup.
Todays agreement was a victory for Russian 
President Boris N. Yeltsin, who after leading 
opposition to the Communist coup has forced 
Gorbachev into the weaker role in a power-shar
ing relationship.
The agreement also underscored the dimin
ished stature of such institutions as the national 
Supreme Soviet legislature, which began Fridays 
session by hearing reports on the Russian-Ukrai
nian accord.
The results of these negotiations are that... the 
old union does not exist and there can be no return 
to it, said Leningrad Mayor Anatoly Sobchak, 
who was sent to Kiev by Gorbachev and the 
Supreme Soviet to observe the talks.
An all-out assault on the Communist Party, 
which has had property seized and seen mass 
resignations at all levels, spread to several Cen
tral Asian republics yesterday, Soviet media re
ported Friday.
In another development, about 30 Soviet am
bassadors, including those assigned to Britain 
and Ireland, have been recalled to Moscow for 
consultations, the Russian governments news 
agency reported, quoting an informed Soviet 
diplomat.
There was no elaboration on why they were 
being recalled. But officials say Boris D. Pankin, 
the former ambassador to Czechoslovakia named 
foreign minister after the coup, was the only 
Soviet envoy abroad to denounce the coup before 
it collapsed.
Todays Russian-Ukranian agreement 
amounted to a treaty between emerging indepen
dent states.
Declaring the union dead simply expresses 
todays reality, said Russian Vice President 
Alexander Rutskoi, who signed the agreement 
after meeting in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev, with 
Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk.
Soviet lawmakers took part in the meeting, but 
the communique did not mention a future role for 
the Kremlin or Gorbachev, who had been trying to 
preserve the Soviet Union with a treaty that 
promised to shift power to the republics.
Yeltsin, on the other hand, has issued a number 
of decrees in the coups aftermath aimed at wrest
ing authority and resources from the central gov
ernment and placing them in the hands of Russias 
leaders.
A Yeltsin spokesman said last week that Russia 
reserved the right to negotiate its borders with 
seceding republics, except for the Baltics. That 
raised fears of a land-grab by Russia in the Ukraine 
and other neighboring republics with a large 
ethnic Russian population.
As Gorbachev struggles to try to regain public 
faith and restore central authority* the 15 Soviet 
republics are taking advantage of the disorder to 
drive for independence.
The Ukraine and Byelorussia, which, with Rus
sia, form the Soviet Unions Slavic heartland, 
declared independence last weekend.
After Russia, the Ukraine is considered most 
important to the survival of any sort of union
because of its agricultural bounty and industrial 
might, its warm water ports, and the lengthy 1 
border with Europe.
In the communique issued in Kiev early today 
after more than a day of talks, Ukrainian and 
Russian leaders said, It is expedient to form 
temporary interstate structures with the partici
pation of interested states, subjects of the former 
U.S.S.R.
The delegations agreed on the need to reform 
the Soviet Unions military to create a system of 
collective security. The two sides, however, reit
erated their allegiance to the Soviet Unions inter
national commitments, including arms reduction 
and control agreements, Tass said.
In addition to the Ukraine and Byelorussia, 
Moldavia, Georgia, and the three Baltic republics 
have declared outright independence. Russia has 
not yet taken that step formally, though Yeltsin 
has been claiming control of property, wealth and 
military units in Russia since the coup.
In the Baltics, Lithuanian President Vytautus 
Landsbergis said Thursday that Soviet troops 
should start withdrawing from Lithuania this 
year.
1rTa tnChuh mT3sunt punarm 3rm3utmh
(DJ)  At the height of the Soviet 
coup, as tanks rumbled on Moscow 
streets, nervous Kremlin plotters 
gained control over most of the elec
tronic codes that govern the nations 
nuclear arsenal. Around the world, 
U.S. intelligence analysts pored over 
images from spy satellites and 
searched Soviet radio traffic for the 
telltale signs of a nuclear alert.
It wasnt long before the analysts 
saw a pattern emerging. What we 
saw was nothing, says one. It seemed 
pretty much a normal day.
But things were far from normal at 
the top of the Soviet command struc
ture. U.S. officials are still uncertain 
of just what happened last week, but 
some believe that for the first time in 
decades the Soviet apparatus for or
dering a nuclear strike may have been 
immobilized for much of three days. 
Complex, fail-safe protections built 
into the command system may have 
played a role. But so did the colonels 
and generals needed to carry out or
ders to launch weapons; as it turned 
out, they were prepared to ignore those 
commands.
But now a different danger begins. 
As the coup collapsed last week, the 
world entered a worrisome new phase 
of the nuclear era. Once-rigid lines of 
control over nuclear weapons and re
lated technologies in the Soviet Union 
are beginning to blur. Meanwhile, the 
fragmentation underway in the na
tion could produce new members of 
the worlds nuclear club.
As last week began, leaders in the
Ukraine claimed title to all of the So
viet military forces in that republic, 
including, presumably, the thousands 
of nuclear warheads there. But Boris 
Yeltsin, the head of the Russian repub
lic, insisted that all of the Ukraines 
weapons, which still seem to be under 
the control of the Soviet Union, should 
be returned to Russia. Later the two 
republics signed a temporary eco
nomic and military alliance that post
poned the question of who controls the 
nukes.
Peter A. Wilson, a Washington con
sultant who prepares war games for 
the Navy and Rand Corp., believes that 
some Soviet republics may hang onto 
the weapons on their soil as bargaining 
chips in independence negotiations. If 
youre a Ukrainian, you might want to 
retain that arsenal for keeping Moscow 
honest, and for that matter, the Ger
mans honest, says Wilson.
It is unclear how the U.S. ultimately 
will react to such a system.The current 
U.S. stance seems to be to cross its 
fingers and hope for the best. Wherever 
the nuclear weapons wind up, we feel 
comfortable that whoever is in charge 
will do the right thing, President Bush 
said yesterday.
That optimism isnt unfounded. Paul 
Bracken, a Yale University political 
science professor who has written about 
nuclear command and control problems, 
says the newly emerging states may 
quickly find that brandishing nuclear 
weapons is prohibitively costly in po
litical terms. It would prejudice other 
nations against them at the very time
they need open borders and are des
perate for outside aid, he argues.
Even if all 27,000 warheads in the 
Soviet Union are carefully monitored 
and controlled, theres still a materi
als issue to deal with. As the Soviets 
cut back their military spending, the 
exotic materials that go into nuclear 
weapons are becoming surplus prop
erties  available for sale or barter.
William Potter, director of the Cen
ter for Russian Studies at the 
Monterey Institute of International 
Studies, notes that newly emerging 
private cooperatives in the Soviet 
Union have begun selling alloys of 
beryllium and zirconium used in 
nuclear weapons.
Soviet traders have also tried ped
dling nuclear reactors that produce 
nuclear weapons materials such as 
plutonium.
In addition to the problem of excess 
material, there are thousands of Rus
sian engineers who have spent their 
lives designing nuclear weapons who 
could now be lured into foreign em
ployment as technomercenaries.
Underlining Potters concerns, 
Yevgeny P. Velikhov, director of the 
Kurchatov Institute of Atomic En
ergy, which oversees much of the So
viet Unions nuclear weapons and 
power industry, called for interna
tional inspection of all Soviet nuclear 
facilities. He said the West should 
pressure republics seeking indepen
dence to sign the Nuclear Non-Prolif
eration Treaty before recognizing 
them.
9rhenbu tusunhu arhhCosu
BEIRUT (AP, August 23)  The 11 
remaining Western hostages held in 
Lebanon are expected to be freed by the 
end of the year, according to Lebanons 
interior minister.
Shiite Muslim sources said last week, 
however, that moves to free the West
ern captives have hit a lull as Iran 
meets with the leaders of hostage-holding groups to discuss Israels demand 
for information on its missing service
men.
The kidnappers have decided to end 
this (hostage) issue before the end of 
1991, Major General Sami Khatib was 
quoted as telling the Syrian govern
ment daily newspaper Tishrin.
Even if we knew where the hostages 
are being held, we wouldnt try to liber
ate them by force for their safety, said 
Khatib. Excerpts of the interview to be 
published were provided to The Associ
ated Press.
The Beirut magazine Ash-Shiraa 
quoted an unidentified senior security 
official as saying that the next release 
would come September 1.
Shiite Muslim sources say Iran is 
pushing its efforts to help free Western 
hostages in a prisoner swap for Shiite 
Muslims held by Israel, although world 
attention has been focused this week 
on the Soviet Union.
The Soviet events eclipsed news 
about the hostages, but the efforts to
ward pulling off the deal continued 
unabated in Tehran, said an informed 
Shiite source.
He said Iran was keen on facilitat
ing a U.N.-sponsored package deal to 
free 375 Lebanese held by Israel, in
return for the hostages and informa
tion on seven Israeli servicemen miss
ing in Lebanon.
The missing Westerners are five 
Americans, three Britons, two Ger
mans, and an Italian. Most of them are 
believed held by extremist Shiite fac
tions loyal to Iran. Longest held is 
American Terry Anderson. He was ab
ducted March 16,1985.
The Iranians want the hostage file 
closed, but not at any cost, the source 
said. They want to tell their Lebanese 
supporters that in return for releasing 
the hostages, weve gotten your prison
ers out of Israel.
Israeli negotiators with the U.N. sec
retary-general have pledged to go along 
with the package deal, but insisted that 
Israel should first receive detailed and 
confirmed information about its miss
ing servicemen, dead or alive.
Red Cross officials in Israel said they 
have not received any such informa
tion. The statement came in response 
to a report from Beirut that one of the 
missing, Israeli air force navigator Ron 
Arad, is alive and that the Red Cross 
was informed of this. The Red Cross in 
Israel denied the report.
Israeli negotiator Uri Lubrani has 
said the Jewish state is willing to make 
a gesture only after it receives the 
demanded information on its missing 
servicemen.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc. 
Layout by 
Rick Quinn
Ever involved in ? ? ?
. "OURME TINGRSI
. areDNINA . TSOMA
. YIE "DOt 
. 6PMRUPD iUN TSRIME
. nMPNE "DOt . TRINNP "DOt
Get involved with
Another A Phi OService
OUR MEETINGS are MONDAYS at 6 PM in 
MARGARET MORRISON 103 (BREED HALL)
A Phi O is a recognized student service organization at CMU 
Alpha Phi Omega  National Co-Ed Service Fraternity
The world is waiting. Be an change student.
Step into an adventure filled with opportunities and challenges. As part of International Youth Exchange, a Presidential Initiative for peace, you live abroad with your new host family. Learn new skills. Go to new schools. Make new friends.Young people from all segments of American society are being selected. If youd like to be one of them, write for more information on programs, costs and financial aid.Help bring the world together, one friendship at a time.
I A message from The Advertising Council and The International Youth Exchange.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 19913
Willard drowns in 
boating accident
Adjunct professor of theater management 
and musical comedy dead at 48
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Asst. News Editor
Charles Andrew Willard, 
adjunct professor of theater 
management and musical 
comedy, died on Sunday, Au
gust 11, in New York when his 
boat and another boat collided 
on Lake Placid. The cause of 
death was determined to be 
drowning.
Willard, 48, had been a mem
ber of the CMU faculty since 
1982. In addition to teaching 
at CMU, Willard had taught 
at Duke University, New York 
University, Syracuse Univer
sity, and the University of 
Michigan. He was also a noted 
producer/manager. Among his 
credits are the New York
Courtesy CMU Drama
Shakespeare Festival produc
tion of The Pirates of Penzance, 
the road tour of A Chorus Line, 
and Lucifers Child.
Willard is survived by his 
mother, Eugenia Willard, and 
his sister, Margaret, both of 
New York.
Thieves lead police to ID equipment
ID, from page 1
key in solving it, the swiftness with which 
an arrest was made had nothing to do with 
luck. I knew the cases I had dealt with in 
the past and I knew who I was dealing with
 I do my homework, said Kaiser. 
Henderson and Tuscano were known ac
complices from an incident on November 8, 
1990, when they were apprehended in Por
ter Hall in connection with a report of sus
picious persons. They had in their posses
sion a pry bar, a flashlight, gloves, and a 
police scanner tuned into the CMU police 
frequency.
An additional case, which is still pending, 
also ties the two together, which according
GSIA construction 
holds to schedule
GSIA, from page 1
of Margaret Morrison], the College of Fine 
Arts building, and the Gym, says Tellers. 
The entry will be dramatic, says Tellers, 
with a large stair that will draw the eye up 
to the first floor of the building, where there 
is a skylit two-story atrium connecting it to 
the top floor. Two different colors of brick 
will be used for construction and accent, 
along with white concrete bricks similar to 
the white limestone used on the other build
ings for decoration.
to Kaiser also has nothing to do with luck. 
You dont start out stealing ID equip
ment. You start out small, then you move 
up, he said. Somewhere along the line 
you will get caught or be held responsible 
for something.
CMU Police Chief James LaPaglia 
agrees. You do not get away with this 
kind of thing forever. There is a price to be 
paid. And that price, said LaPaglia, starts 
off at over $11,000, the cost of rekeying 
Warner Hall, replacing the ID equipment, 
and recoding all campus IDs.
Punishment for the students involved in 
both the ID machine theft and the 
Morewood break-in will likely include ad
mission into a state rehabilitation program, 
according to Kaiser; however, jail time is 
not out of the question.
Although unable to discuss the 
Universitys planned disciplinary measures, 
Dean of Student Affairs Michael Murphy 
did address the storage break-in itself. It 
isnt clear how they got in [the storage 
area], said Murphy, adding that summer 
access to such areas is strictly monitored. 
An investigation is underway and the secu
rity breech will be rectified, said Murphy. 
Students can be assured of that.
The forced entry involved with the ID 
machine theft was answered with addi
tional security measures last fall.
CMU mentor program takes off
MENTOR, from page 1
work but I really enjoyed it, says 
Gesmond.
Helping Gesmond organize and develop 
the Mentor Program were Kevin Gold
smith, Judy Grossman and Erik Larson. 
Larson feels that the program will help 
first-year students a great deal in discov
ering things that are not formally intro
duced by the University. He adds, Life at 
CMU is not exactly as you see it in the 
brochures and it really helps to have some
one to answer questions.
Matches are still being made, says 
Gesmond, and anyone interested in be
coming involved with the program should 
contact her.
It is a great opportunity to be involved 
with a project that merits a lot of respect 
from faculty and students, she says, add
ing that feedback from mentors has been 
very posiitive thus far, and expectations 
concerning the future of the program are 
high.
IM/ECON HAPPYHOUR
Dates:
Thursday, September 12, 1991 
Thursday, October 17, 1991 
Thursday, November 14, 1991 
Wednesday, December 11, 1991
Time:
4:30 - 6:00 pm
Place:
Skibo Faculty Lounge
A good way to unwind! Stop by  chat with your friends. 
Meet the faculty.
Polli oc ceIDequ
Coordinated by the Student Advisory Committee, 
departments of Industrial Management and Economics.
SHARE YOUR ACADEMIC 
SUCCESS STORY
STUDY SKILLS TUTORS NEEDED
Tutors work individually with students and 
conduct workshops. Topics range from time 
management to exam prep. A good 
academic average and willingness to work 
with students from all subject areas is 
neccesary.
Short Training Is Required 
Flexible Hours
Call Learning Services x6878
PoolioceiI
The Carnegie Mellon Action Project (CMAP) is interested in hiring individuals to
tutor the folowing courses:
03-121Modem Biology
09-105Modem Chemistry
09-106Modem Chemistry
09-117Organic Chemistry
15-123Intro to Programming & App
15-125Intro to Programming & Computation
15-127Intro to Programming & Computer Science
21-105Pre-Calculus (H&SS)
21-211Calculus I (H&SS)
21-112Calculus II (H&SS)
21-121Calculus I (CIT)
21-122Calculus With Linear Algebra
21-227Intro to Modern Math
21-259Calculus in Three Dimensions
21-260Differential Equations
24-112Fluid Mechanics
27-201Material Science I
31-121Physics I
31-122Physics II
31-123Physics III: Electricity & Magnetics
36-209Probability & Applied Statistics
36-210Probability & Applied Statistics
73-100Principles of Economics
79-104Intro to World History
CMAP'S tutoring occus from 6:00-9:00 pm, SundayThursday, in the CMAP Complex, Smith
Hall 220.
If you are interested in applying fora tutoring position, please contact Dr. LaValla Wilson at 268-
2150. A copy of your transcript anda letter of recommendation from your department or instructor is needed to assess your competency in the given subject. The beginning salary is $5.00/hr.
ni ij|riii 
Mmwmi Mmisia
IMP 'HIMpife
NFOFFFW F O...
lullt ittwwi
j pf' 
\ % piat 
m mmlulhimw 
F 4hh FLAVY JmUL as! e
spi
Il Mi&
ifi*
Pool302PT /UPI n y jf:|08/9303-097-00 CL

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 1991
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Get one medium 
one topping pizza 
and two servings of 
Coca-Colas for S8.99 
Expires 9/30/91
RnsCi nanteC3CaneCmb hertuh rmsMU vre gnsCi pCef nmM refut rccutU dtC3uh 
knM gntMU 1Therkut anMh hnsuh enW pfutu naasC3nosuU wusCgutM ntunh 
sCkCeui er umhTtu hncu itCgCmbU ITt itCguth 3nttM suhh efnm D20U00U 
ITt itCguth ntu mre aumnsCqui crt sneu iusCgutCuhU
G1991 wrkCmrAh dCqqnU 4m3U 1nhf gnsTu aTHa
Get a large, two-item pizza 
for only $9.99. 
Expires: 9/30/91
RnsCi ne anteC3CaneCmb hertuh rmsMU vre gnsCi g$Cef nmM refut rccutU dtC3uh 
knM gntMU 1Therkut anMh hnsuh enW pfutu naasC3nosuU wusCgutM ntunh 
sCkCeui er umhTtu hncu itCgCmbU ITt itCguth 3nttM suhh efnm D20U00U 
ITt itCguth ntu mre aumnsCqui crt sneu iusCgutCuhU
1991 wrkCmrAh dCqqn5 4m3U 1nhf gnsTu adr0
Get a medium 
three item pizza 
for $8.99 
Expires 9/30/91
RnsCi ne anteC3CaneCmb hertuh rmsMU vre gnsCi g$Cef nmM refut rccutU dtC3uh 
knM gntMU 1Therkut anMh hnsuh enW pfutu naasC3nosuU wusCgutM ntunh 
sCkCeui er umhTtu hncu itCgCmbU ITt itCguth 3nttM suhh efnm D20U00U 
ITt itCguth ntu mre aumnsCqui crt sneu iusCgutCuhU
1991 wrkCmrKh dCqqn5 4m3U 1nhf gnsTu
Robotics gets $500K grant
NASA has given the Field Robotics Center a $500,000 grant to 
design and build a mobile robot to perform inspection and mainte
nance operations on the tiles covering the space shuttles.
The tiles protect the shuttles from the intense heat of leaving and 
re-entering Earths atmosphere. When the shuttle lands, each tile 
must be injected with a chemical that prevents it from absorbing 
water. This chemical, however, is hazardous and safety consider
ations require five shifts of workers in protective suits to inject all 
30,000 tiles.
According to Project Manager Kevin Dowling of the Robotics 
Institute, the robot will reduce the workload and paperwork, as well 
as provide accurate measurements and verification of the process.
CMU budget cuts planned
Various salary and budget cut decisions had to be made here at 
Carnegie Mellon due to tighter restrictions on federal research 
overhead costs.
The Bush administrations Office of Management and Budget 
(OMB) has added to the budgetary pressures on the nations major 
research universities, Mehrabian said.
The OMB announced a proposal to limit severely the ability of 
the University to recover indirect (overhead) costs for federally 
sponsored research. When this proposal is implemented, tighter 
restrictions on the research overhead costs Carnegie Mellon can 
recover will have a substantial impact on our operating budget ... 
reimbursement for overhead costs constitutes one of the three 
components of our operating budget, along with tuition and income 
from endowments and gifts. Assuming the OMB proposal will be 
implemented within the next few months, we must deal with a $3- 
4 million shortfall in Carnegie Mellons Fiscal Year 92 budget.
In a memo to the campus community, President Mehrabian listed 
some of the decisions made to comply with the restrictions. An 
increase of about two percent was allocated to the salary pool. As of 
July 1, these funds were allocated to faculty and staff using a sliding 
scale system.
This system will be implemented to provide, on average, the 
largest percentage increase to those who earn the least, explained 
Mehrabian. A fraction of the salary pool increase will be available 
to department heads to accommodate promotions and reclassifica
tion of positions.
Other changes include freezing the salaries of the president, the 
vice-president and the deans at 1990-91 levels. Allocations for 
department expenses and equipment will be funded at 1990-91 
levels and departmental budgets for student support (graduate 
stipends), will increase by six percent to mitigate higher tuition 
costs.
Also, recent increases in parking rates have been rescinded for 
one year.
We want to insure that no segment of the Carnegie Mellon 
community carries an unfair or inequitable burden in meeting this 
fiscal challenge, said Mehrabian.
Sekerka resigns as dean
Robert Sekerka has announced he will resign as dean of the 
Mellon College of Science as of September 1. Dr. Sekerka will return 
to full-time teaching and research as a professor of physics and 
mathematics. Dr. Sekerka was dean for nine years.
In a letter to the campus community, Dr. Sekerka said, The time 
has come for me to do something new, and for the college to benefit 
from the opportunity to select a new leader.... The college as a whole 
is now in fantastically good shape. There is a full slate of extremely
competent department heads and center directors, a system is in 
place for smooth and efficient operation of both the educational and 
research programs, and 1991-92 was a banner year for major 
research grants, including an S &T [science and technology] center 
and a Facilities Renovation Grant from NSF [the National Science 
Foundation].
Mellon Foundation honors 
CMU alum with grant
The Graduate School of Industrial Administration was awarded a 
$50,000 grant from the Richard King Mellon Foundation to honor 
alumni William F. Pounds and John R. Thome.
William Pounds earned a doctorate degree from GSIA in 1964. He 
recently retired as president and chief executive officer of Rockefeller 
Financial Services, Inc., where he was a senior advisor to the 
Rockefeller family.
John Thome is a 1952 alumnus and helped to found Pittsburghs 
non-profit Enterprise Corporation which assists new companies. He 
is the David T. and Lindsay J. Morgenthaler professor of entrepre
neurship at GSIA and directs the Donald H. Jones Center for 
Entrepreneurship.
The grant funds will be used to support the programs of the Donald
H. Jones entrepreneurship center.
Correction...
The Tartan corrects all errors of fact. If you know of an error, 
please call Beth Moses, editor-in-chief, at x2111 anytime, or 
write her at Skibo 45.
ITS TIME FOR DOMINOS PIZZA*.
Call Us! 681-1700 315 N. Craig Street
Sunday - Thursday Friday & Saturday
11:00am - 2:00am 11:00am - 3:00am
THE BEST CALL BUBBY BRISTER MAKES IS TO DOMINOS PIZZA".
wusCgutM ntunh sCkCeui er umhTtu hncu itCgCmbU 
1991 wrkCmrAh dCqqn5 4m3U
1991 Fs HrrChetn$v7l dfrerh
:1r3ny1rsn5. :iCue 1rLu. nmi efu wMmnkC3 NCoorm iugC3u ntu 
tubCheutui etniukntLh rc Efu 1r3ny1rsn 1rkanmMU
$8.99 F $9.99"P$8.99

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 19915
Summer thefts plague fraternity houses
THEFT, from page 1
reciever, while at Theta Xi, vice 
president Arjun Kare says 
thieves left with a phone, pool 
balls, and a brothers boom box.
While summer theft at the fra
ternities is by no means a new 
phenomenon, sources at both the 
Housing Office and Campus 
Police confirm that the sheer 
magnitude this year is highly 
unusual, to say the least. The 
only thing thats clear now is 
that this summers thefts have 
left everyone from the Campus 
Police to the Housing office, to 
the fraternities themselves 
searching for the reasons why. 
Why its changed this year, I 
really couldnt tell you, said 
Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia. Your guess is as good 
as mine. We just know that 
theres been an increase.
What all those concerned do 
agree upon is that the quad be
comes a different place in the 
summertime. When you have 
your whole brotherhood here 
during the year its not that bad 
a security problem, said Phi 
Kap brother Angus McCollum. 
But in the summer you leave 
the doors open, and theres only 
about a third of the brotherhood 
actually in the house ... During 
the day its like an open invita
tion [for theft].
McCollums comments are 
echoed by Housing Director Tony 
Martin, though Martin feels that 
some of the problem potentially 
lies with the people who stay. 
Most of these people are board
ers, he says. We dont have the 
same communication, organiza
tion, and people sort of taking 
care of each other and caring 
about the whole house. Clearly 
thats a difference in the sum
mer versus the school year. 
Martin feels that this type of 
interaction during the school 
year is an integral part of the 
security of the fraternities. 
Thats one of the things that 
makes all the difference, he 
said. Thats a security that per
haps we take for granted. An 
important part of the process is 
people coming and going  
people who might see something 
suspicious and report it, and 
people who by their presence 
may discourage outsiders from 
thinking that they can get away 
with this kind of thing. But dur
ing the summer, with occupancy 
being so low, and certainly with 
those occupants not being all 
CMU students, much less CMU 
students in an organized group
 if someone is aware of that, 
its a situation they might take 
i of.
But while LaPaglia agrees that 
these factors certainly contrib
ute to the problem, he doesnt 
think that they are solely re
sponsible for the recent increase.
Im sure the situation in the 
frats as far as doors being left 
open, fewer people being around, 
and having outside people liv
ing there really hasnt changed 
in the past years, said LaPaglia. 
Now Im speculating, but maybe 
its a case where someone has 
found that this is an easy target 
and continues to come back. If 
this is, in fact, the case, LaPaglia 
warned that the thefts may be 
the work of what he terms a 
professional burglar. This, he 
says, makes the matter all the 
more serious, as he stresses that 
the overwhelming majority of 
the time theyre supporting a 
drug habit. So if you have a per
son who has a serious drug prob
lem and theyve found an easy 
target, you can be sure theyre 
going to come back.
Because some of the thefts 
were from private rooms within 
various fraternities, and carried 
no signs of forced entry, some 
fraternity members are wonder
ing whether these thefts were 
committed using a stolen or cop
ied master key. For his part, 
Martin feels that it is highly 
unlikely that anyone has gained 
access to a master key, citing 
both the limited number of ser
vice personnel who have such 
keys (as compared to the num
ber of similar personnel in stan
dard dormitories), as well as the 
fact that the Best brand lock 
system that the University uses 
is only available to institutions, 
and their blanks are unavail
able to regular locksmiths.
As far as existing keys are 
concerned, the fraternities op
erate independently of the Hous
ing Office, with each house be
ing in charge of the distribution 
and collection of keys. It is here 
that Martin sees the possibility 
of a security lapse. In the fra
ternities, Im not sure from group 
to group how well the system 
works, he said. I dont know 
how well those keys have been 
managed. My suspicion is that 
all too often people arent pressed 
to return their keys. Over the 
past few years, Martin added, a 
handful of fraternities had all of 
their locks changed because of 
security breaches. No doubt 
more fraternities would follow 
suit, but according to Sigma Nu 
president Jim Wiley, many 
houses simply cannot afford the 
cost of a lock system change, an 
operation not covered in their 
lease contracts. Id definitely
be in favor of that, said Wiley. 
The thing is they would make 
us pay for it, and its a ridiculous 
price.
Nevertheless, Kirk Lenga  
who was house manager at 
Kappa Sigma this summer  
says he feels the problem of theft 
at the fraternities is less an is
sue of key policy in the fraterni
ties and more an issue of poor 
maintenance by the University. 
Its not only locks, but things 
like windows and doors being 
broken and not being repaired, 
he said. A lack of maintenance 
makes it easy  If somebody 
wants to, they can get in.
Lenga says a good case in point 
is a theft of two turntables from 
Kappa Sigma two summers ago, 
in the course of which the houses 
back door was seriously damWe put
with the question of how was the 
request put through.... Id bet 
dollars to doughnuts that we 
never received a work order for 
it."
Not so, says Wiley. We had 
work orders in with the univer
sity for close to three months for 
those doors, and we never got 
any response from them. He 
says it was not until he finally 
called the housing office that 
the doors were fixed.
While Lyons concedes the 
maintenance system is not in
fallible, he stressed that the 
problem is not one of negligence. 
We may be wrong in that our 
mechanics may not have done 
the right job, or it may be taking 
us too long to get the job done, 
but we do know where the work 
order is, said Lyons. Its not
Physical Plant is equipped to 
handle day-to-day problems 
and emergencies, he said that 
jobs such as door and jamb re
pairs needed at Kappa Sigma 
place a strain on their resources. 
Were not a construction com
pany. Were not set up to be 
doing major construction jobs. 
Our major goal with our me
chanics is the day-to-day main
tenance of the facilities that are 
here.
Despite disagreement over the 
causes in the wake of this 
summers increased thefts, Mar
tin feels it will at least provide 
some basis for dialogue between 
the groups concerned. I think 
this summer gives us reason to 
discuss the overall problem with 
the fraternities duringthe school 
year, and plan during the sumin two emer
gency requests 
and called 
Physical Plant 
as well, he 
said. "Within 
the following 
week, they
broke in again 56S5S61 
and stole both
our speakers, our amplifier, and 
our mixing board. Theres no way 
they can tell me that thats be
cause of a key problem. When 
your door is hanging off the 
hinge, its not a key problem.
Lengas complaints are shared 
by PiKA president Doug Franz, 
who said that his house is cur
rently trying to have their main 
wooden entry doors fixed, which 
are in need of new hinges, as 
well as repairs to the jamb and 
frame for them to be secure. 
Franz says that they have put in 
three written work orders for 
repairs to no avail. Physical 
Plant has yet to do anything, he 
said.
Back at Sigma Nu, Wiley re
counts a similar tale of frustra
tion with the system at the be
ginning of the summer, in which 
a security breach was ignored 
for several months. Neither our 
back or our front doors closed. 
he recalled.
Steven E. Lyons, Assistant 
Director of Maintenance, de
fended the work order system, 
calling it a proven format. He 
denies that the situation is be
cause of delinquency on the part 
of Physical Plant. Our issue is 
knowing about the problem, he 
said. It happens time and time 
again that we dont get the full 
picture, yet somebody thought 
that we did, and points the fin
ger at us. Id really want to tem
per that [the criticisms by Wiley]
We put in two emergency requests and called Physical 
Plant as well... when your door is hanging off the hinge, 
its not a key problem.
Kirk Lenga, Kappa Sigma
Resnick burglaries focus attention 
on window washing company
By R. STRUMINGER
Tartan Contributing Editor
A suite in the Resnik House 
was burglarized last Wednes
day while a window-cleaning 
company working in the area 
had access to the suite, accord
ing to a notice from Housing 
director Anthony Martin. By 
Friday a suspect for the crime, 
one of the men from the window 
washing company, was arrested 
for Defiant Trespass by the Car
negie Mellon Security Depart
ment.
However, there are certain 
aspects of this [burglary] that 
are [still] under investigation, 
said Bill Kaiser, the investiga
tor working on the case. We are 
still looking into people from the 
window washing company as 
suspects...No one has admitted
to the crime.
Stolen goods worth 
eluded cash, a necklace, and a 
wristwatch. The estimated time 
of the burglaries, according to 
the police reports, was between 
11:00 am and 2:15 pm. The men 
working for the outside contrac
tor at those times had keys to the 
suite.
According to Amy Ginther, As
sistant Director of Housing for 
Residence Life, Contractors have 
to be able to do their work, so they 
have to have keys...they return 
the keys at the end of the day and 
are not allowed to take keys 
home.
In order to protect students 
from further burglary problems, 
the school has taken precautions. 
Institutions buy the Best lock 
system so that keys cannot be 
easily made ... The nature of the
Subscriptions
to The Tartan are now available by first class and third class mail. For more 
information, please contact Deborah Henderson at The Tartan office:
Box 17, Carnegie Mellon Univ.
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 TUF T A DT A \f
(412)268-2111 IIIL lfllYlflll
like somebody called us up and 
told us they needed a job done 
and we forgot about it. This stuff 
gets locked into the system.
Martin defended the integrity 
of the system, but he stressed 
that the Housing Office has by 
contract a limited role to play in 
the whole process. We are the 
middleman to relay requests for 
service from the fraternities to 
Physical Plant, he said. If there 
is a need for a repair, our re
sponsibility is to communicate 
that directly to Physical Plant.
Lenga disagrees, charging 
that the delays are more politi
cal than jurisdictional: Theyre 
not maintainingthe houses prop
erly  they put it off. If Presi
dent Mehrabian wants his lock 
fixed, his lock is gonna get fixed. 
If Alpha Beta Gamma wants to 
have their lock fixed they have 
to wait a month, and I dont 
think thats fair.... in the frater
nities, we get the short end of 
the stick every time."
At least part of the problem is 
Physical Plant's workload. Ac
cording to Lyons, summer is a 
particularly busy time of year. 
The workload is pretty high 
right through the summer, he 
said, adding that it gets ex
tremely high for the two weeks 
just prior to school.... Weve done 
close to $9000 worth of lock work 
alone in housing in the last two 
weeks."
While Lyons asserts that
mer to have as tight a system as 
those students think they need 
and want. said Martin. The 
Housing Office isnt intending 
to try to change the way that the 
fraternities are managed, but I 
guess we have to heighten 
peoples sensitivity to security 
issues.... We just have to get 
people to be sensitive to keeping 
their doors locked, not propping 
doors, reporting problems with 
doors and locks not working 
properly, and following it up, 
and reporting things to security 
as quickly as possible with as 
many details as possible. 
Lenga agrees, adding that 
much of the solution rests within 
the fraternity community. I 
think there has to be an effort 
between the houses to watch out 
for each other and for them
selves.
As far as campus security is 
concerned, Lenga suggested that 
patrols by security be stepped 
up because of the higher inci
dence of theft in the quad com
pared to the rest of the campus. 
Still, he believes that the bur
den should not be placed on Cam
pus Police. Theyre doing their 
job, said Lenga. Theres not 
much more they can do. Wiley 
agrees, adding that the police 
responded immediately to calls 
from his house this summer.
Were willing to try to be a 
little more aggressive in crime 
prevention in the fraternities,
said LaPaglia. We have in
creased our patrols in the area, 
but were limited in the number 
of people we can put anywhere 
because we only have a certain 
amount of people on duty. The 
deciding factor, he feels, will be 
a cohesive effort on the part of 
all concerned. We need coop
eration and teamwork from the 
houses, said LaPaglia. Its 
more important to prevent it 
before it happens. One of the 
things were trying to do is be 
more active in our crime preven
tion program to include the fra
ternities this year.
Two of the ways LaPaglia says 
Campus Police are doing this is 
through crime alert notices, and 
by submitting work orders for 
damages which pose a security 
threat directly to Physical Plant
 indepen
dently of ei
ther the Hous
ing Office or 
the fraterni
ties.
The format 
of the crime
___________________ alert fliers he
said is inten
tionally very 
straightforward, allowing them 
to quickly inform everyone when 
an incident occurs. Basically 
they say that a particular house 
was broken into, this is how it 
happened, and this is what you 
can do to prevent it. 
Regardless of what efforts are 
employed, LaPaglia said the fra
ternities are a particular chal
lenge in preventing crime. It 
may be more difficult over there 
because there may be a lot of 
outsiders visiting there more 
than any other place on cam
pus, he said. That in itself sets 
the place up for some security 
breaches.
Still, LaPaglia says that past 
experience provides at least a 
few pointers for students wor
ried about theft. Weve found 
on our campus over the past 
years that our biggest crime 
problem has been theft, and in 
95 percent of these thefts there 
is no forced entry, he said. So 
that would lead us to the conclu
sion that a lot of the thefts here 
are committed by people who 
have a right to be here  other 
students, people who work here, 
legitimate visitors. Its hard to 
protect against people who have 
a right to be here, so its up to 
you to lock your own room up, 
lock your valuables up when 
theyre in the room  these are 
the kind of things we would want 
to tell the houses when we do a 
crime prevention program.
Best lock system makes it very 
difficult for keys to be dupli
cated, explained Ginther.
Keys are signed out from the 
lock shop at Physical Plant and 
the number on the key is re
corded. When the key is re
turned, the date is written be
side the key number indicating 
that the key was returned. The 
name-, of the person receiving 
the key is also recorded. said 
Bill Mangan, Maintenance and 
Special Events Supervisor. 
Housing also has privileges to 
hand out keys, although their 
specific process could not be veri
fied.
As the investigation contin
ues, investigators encourage 
anyone who has more informa
tion regarding the burglary to 
please contact Investigator Wil
liam Kaiser at x 2323.
Do you want this...
or...
pmnnt h vnssN wbrfynL yarf rf qAgrTd oCgn Yy 
ELEnby yrExnyfN ."y $nCgn Yy y snAgn y$ 
a"bf nAbsrnbd oCss .n $bxrLY rL yan Es"fynb 
"Lyrs A."y 8SN yanL oCss .n b"LLrLY Ab"LT 
"Lyrs d ?nCss aAgn y Yny "y M anbn .U S 
b $nCss krff yan ELEnbyd ,rYL kn y sny kn 
xL$ $anbn y trEx U" "td o sgn U"dp

---------------------------------------------------

7INS
Foil theft at CMU
Duringthe summer recess, the 
Carnegie Mellon community fell 
victim to a string of thefts on 
campus. Morewood Gardens 
storage was burglarized, as were 
the fraternities, the sororities, 
and the Architecture Depart
ment. Even during the normal 
school year, personal property 
is not always safe. Just take a 
look around Morewood Gardens 
and you can see signs requesting 
the return of wallets stolen 
during the first week of school.
Campus Police attempts to 
make the campus secure, but 
the job is just too large for it to 
take on the whole responsibil
ity. It needs community support 
to do the job effectively. Campus 
Police has made some arrests 
involving some of these burglar
ies. But the police officers and 
security guards cant be every
where all the time.
The reality is that Carnegie 
Mellon is located in a large city 
where crime is a fact of life. 
Individuals from on campus and 
off campus enter our commu
nity daily. Also, thieves do not 
usually look like thieves, which 
is part of the reason they axe so 
often successful.
The campus community and 
Campus Police need to work to
gether to promote a greater 
awareness of the need to take 
precautions to protect academic 
and personal property.
When a student becomes a 
victim, he or she then takes pre
cautions to avoid similar crimes, 
but the fact is that all students, 
staff, and faculty need to take 
measures to prevent crime be
fore it is committed.
There are ways to make cam
pus more secure. Campus Po
lice recommends the following 
measures to create a more se
cure environment for the cam
pus community:
 Lock doors. The number 
one reason theft is possible is 
that doors are left unlocked, so 
criminals dont even have to 
force their way in to steal.
 Report suspicious persons. 
If someone appears to be look
ing for an opportunity to com
mit a crime, call Campus Police 
at x2323 immediately.
 Make sure valuables are 
recorded and engrave your 
property. Campus Police can 
then contact you if the items 
are recovered.
 Never prop doors open. A 
thiefs best friend is a person 
who decides it is convenient to 
prop open a security door.
 Do not leave your belong
ings unattended. If the oppor
tunity to steal exists in librar
ies, dormitory lounges, aca
demic buildings, or athletic 
events, a thief will jump at it.
 Report lost keys. If you 
lose a key, report it as soon 
as possible so the person who 
finds it will have no chance 
to use it. The sooner the key 
and lock are replaced, the 
lower your risk.
Stop thieves before they steal 
from you. Take a stand against 
this rash of thefts on campus.
When thieves realize that 
Carnegie Mellon and its stu
dents are taking precautions 
and are no longer easy 
targets,they will have to look 
elsewhere.
Housing caught bare
Some students who live in 
University housing were not at 
all pleased when they arrived 
on campus and discovered that 
their rooms were almost bare of 
furniture and that repairs for 
which they had been charged 
had, in some cases, not been 
made.
Although Housing is usually 
on the ball when it comes to 
being ready for students to move 
into the residence halls, that 
ball appears to have been 
dropped a time or two over the 
summer.
When students sign their 
Housing contracts, they expect 
that their rooms will be liveable 
when they get here. When they 
are charged for repairs, they as
sume that those repairs will be 
made.
Assistant Director of Housing 
for Facilities Dan Askin at
tributes the lack of furniture in 
some rooms to a problem with 
the furniture vendor, causing a 
delay in delivery. The delivery 
of some furniture was so late, 
apparently, that there was little 
time to assemble the furniture 
before students arrived. AS of 
publication, some of the furni
ture had not arrived, and some 
residents were still waiting for 
the remainder of it.
There is no reason for students 
to be inconvenienced in such a 
manner. Administrators knew 
when students would arrive on 
campus and if the problem with 
the vendor was that severe, adrLn Wq ,voeDec i,
CA-RNl MELLON
j'"3 ,voeDec Lyu 
TMyIje5oe 0eWj
Letters to the Editor
Shin urges student in
volvement, commitment
on
LcUcr lo Ibc Edilor
Editor:
I would like to wel
come all of you to an 
exciting year at CarLGttGT tO 
negie Mellon Univer. ? ^ c ...^u 
sity. I look forward to **16 Editor 
fulfilling my presidency with you this 
year.
Let me give you a brief update on the 
progress made this summer. Last year, 
I had made a commitment to establish 
the Student Mentor Program. With the 
aid of others, most notably Natalie 
Gesmond, the program has been suc
cessfully implemented with over 120 
matches. To ensure the future success 
of the program, a pilot program involv
ing only H&SS and IM was initiated. 
The pilot program will identify the 
strengths and areas of improvement of 
the Student Mentor Program. The 
learnings from the pilot program, in 
turn, will enable us to make necessary
adjustments for the next years univer
sity-wide expansion of the Student 
Mentor Program. It is my hope that one 
day this program will evolve to become 
a natural part of the university life.
In addition to the Student Mentor 
Program, I am pursuing programs that 
will provide an opportunity for stu
dents to constructively exchange and 
discuss their ideas and opinions, pro
mote greater student/faculty interac
tion, and further students orientation 
to various fields of study. All of my 
proposed programs are intended to 
benefit not only us, the current Carn
egie Mellon students, blit future stu
dents as well. I am optimistic that we 
can realize these ideas with your sup
port and the assistance of the adminis
tration, faculty, and staff. Presently, I 
am meeting with various student 
leaders to assess their needs, gain their 
insight, and discuss my plans for the 
year.
In closing, I strongly encourage all of 
you to get involved in extracurricular 
activities, whether it be goingto a sports
event, attending a special seminar, or 
joining a student organization. Trust 
me  this will make for a more enjoy
able college experience.
If you have any questions or com
ments, please call me at x5391 or send 
me email at hsOo. Best of luck to all of 
you this year.
Hyun B. Shin
Senior, Industrial Management 
Student Government President
Letters to the editor are the opin
ions of authors who are usually, but 
not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter in
tended for publication must be 
signed and include the writers ad
dress and phone number for verifi
cation. Names will be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 350 words. 
The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any letter.
7tuhfknm armiuth mupycrTmi ctuuirk
ministrators in the Housing of
fice should have attempted to 
expediate the process or alter
nate arrangements should have 
been made. To put it plainly, 
they missed their deadline. 
When students plan poorly and 
miss deadlines, there are con
sequences. While students 
cannot fail administrators and 
make make them repeat the 
summer term, Housing must 
realize that it has made a mis
take and take steps to assure it 
does not happen again.
When students arrived on 
campus, they also expected that 
repairs for which they were 
charged would be complete. 
Whether the repairs entailed 
painting walls, filling holes, or 
replacing broken furniture, 
they should have been taken 
care of before students re
turned. When a student, or 
anyone for that matter, pays 
for a service, they have the right 
to expect that the service will 
be performed as soon as pos
sible.
As students, many of whom 
live in University housing, we 
appreciate the fact that CMU 
is trying to make housing more 
liveable through changes such 
as paint jobs, new carpeting, 
and new furniture. But we also 
think it is reasonable to expect 
that these changes will be made 
in a timely and efficient man
ner and not at the expense of 
students comfort and conveAbby Schiff
Wow! College!
At last Im here, I thought, as I strolled 
across campus, clueless and lost, one 
fine day during freshman orientation.
With high school behind me, I could 
forsake SATs, take whatever courses I 
wanted, gain Knowledge, immerse 
my self in a learning environment, blah, 
blah, blah.
After Id stumbled through a restricted 
zone in the Naval building, tripped over 
a sprinkler, and inadvertently wandered 
into a sub-basement boiler room think
ing it was a back entrance to Baker 
Hall, I finally found the H&SS Aca
demic Advisory Center.
I had to straighten out a glitch in my 
schedule, and as the assistant showed 
me a list of available courses, I heard 
myself ask the unthinkable:
Uh ... which one is the easiest?
I wont go into the specifics of the 
look he gave me at that point  it was 
as if Id hacked up the Fence for ab
stract art sculpture material and con
structed a line of pink plastic flamingo 
lawn decorations in its place  but it 
made me realize how silly it was for me 
to spend thousands of dollars so that I 
could guarantee myself a space in the 
class of a professor who didnt take 
attendance.
My warpedj high school-born policy 
of high grades at any cost with a bare 
minimum of learning wasnt going to 
work at the very place which had in
spired it  college.
Wait a minute. High school doesnt 
prepare you for college? Well, maybe it 
does, in a strictly academic sense.
But in terms of real readiness, my 
high school days did no more to pre
pare me attitude-wise than the lecture 
on 1950s-style etiquette my mother 
gave me on the car ride to school.
Always keep both feet on the floor, 
dear, she advised, prompting me to 
wonder how in the world I was sup
posed to go to sleep.
High school sent me all the wrong 
messages, pounding them into my head 
until I became just another SAT scorecrazed lunatic roaming the hallways.
On a typical day early in the term, I 
might spend days on program engi
neering  that is, fighting tooth and 
nail with guidance counselors, grade 
advisors, and the dreaded program of
fice in order to get an easy schedule.
And right beside me were thousands 
ofmyfellow classmates, vyingfor space 
in the overbooked course of a teacher 
who gave out 99s to everyone who had 
the grit and determination to show up 
once for class.
Well, all this may have worked to get 
me into CMU, but it seems like a terrible 
attitude to have when one considers the 
time and monetary investment going 
into my four years here. Im sure Im not 
the only freshman whose fathers part
ing words were: Enjoy it, kid; we stand 
to lose the house.
In a class of three hundred, where 
Please see FRESHMAN, page 9
'Schlag resident contemplates reputation
Franklin Chang
Where do you live?
Schlag.
Hamerschlag. Ah, what a name. One 
can almost smell the odor ... I mean ... 
aroma of its halls. Whenever the name 
is uttered, eyes droop, smiles cease, and 
out comes the omnipresent reply:
Ah, Im sorry.
At this point, one can almost see the 
guilt that one has inflicted on the other 
person for just asking a simple question.
Where did Hamerschlag House get its 
ominous reputation? It couldnt be be
cause of the birdshit the size of Ne
braska on the windows. It couldnt be 
the praying mantises and other bugs 
that live in our rooms because there are 
no screens. It couldnt be because, from 
certain angles, Hamerschlag looks like
Where did Hamerschlag House get its omi
nous reputation? ... Maybe its because 
Schlag is an all male dorm.
Third World housing.
Naaah ....
Maybe its because Schlag is an all 
male dorm.
Hmmmm ....
At any rate, the name is intriguing.
Schlag.
One can almost hear:
Newsroom: Today, Saddam Hussein 
shot four Schlag missies into Israel.
Or : Ingredients in a candybar: Sugar, 
plain chocolate, benzene-chlorophosphate,and Schlag.
Or: In this process, the Schlag is 
separated form the ore and used to 
make weak plastics.
Or: From the third aisle of a local
supermarket:Please, lady, dont 
squeeze the Schlag!
Even with the dubious distinction of 
being the worst place to live on campus, 
Schlaggers face the adversity with 
courage and pride. Behind the snickers 
and and laughter is really a sense of 
awe at the strength that allows us to 
survive such conditions. Schlag repre
sents many qualities of CMU: tough, 
fun, unpretentious, computer-literate, 
and socially disfunctional. Schlag is a 
monument, a tradition, and, like 
Cyranos nose, a large tan thing.
Franklin Chang is a freshman in 
MCS.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 19917
Could Canada become next Evil Empire?
yJason McDonald
The United States of America 
has reached a true crisis, though 
you wouldnt know it from pe
rusing the national media.
The problem is this: with the 
end of Communism  did I 
hear a trumpet fanfare?  and 
the disintegration of the Soviet 
Ex-Union, there is now no evil 
empire toward which the United 
States is able to act in a para
noid manner.
Parenthetically, Im still not 
quite sure how Communism can 
have ended when theres still 
over a billion Chinese who, to 
the best of my knowledge, still 
live under a Communist govern
ment.
Let me know when the Great 
Wall features a T.C.B.Y. and a 
Taco Bell.
Oh, how the mighty have 
fallen! Its only been a quartercentury since Khrushchev and 
the Cuban missile crisis, and 
less than a decade since Ronald
Reagan was showing us blow
ups of Russian airfields, missile 
bases, and Burger Czars in Cen
tral America.
Now we have Boris Yeltsin 
and Mikhail Gorbachev, who 
have more fans here than Bo 
Jackson. Baltic Republics are 
going solo right and left  kind 
of like New Edition splinter 
groups  so what can we do to 
occupy ourselves? Who will wear 
the international black hat for 
the next decade or two?
You know that this is a ques
tion that keeps George Bush up 
at night. With attention shifted 
back to the domestic scene, 
somebody just might remember 
that no new taxes thing or the 
Savings & Loan scandal.
Or maybe the American people 
will find a new Bush adminis
tration screw-up.
Who knows? People might 
realize that George is an idiot, 
and then hell only win by a 
twenty percent margin in 1992 
instead of the likely thirty per
cent he can expect right now.
We could hold another scrim
mage war like Grenada, Libya, 
Panama, or Iraq. Considering
Considering that there are somewhere in the vicinity of 
200 countries in the world, finding a suitable target 
shouldnt be a problem. Stomping the hell out of Mo
naco ought to keep the dust off the toybox for a while.
that there are somewhere in the 
vicinity of 200 countries in the 
world, finding a suitable target 
shouldnt be a problem.
Stomping the hell out of Mo
naco ought to keep the dust off 
the toybox for a while. But what 
can we do for a long-term solu
tion?
I suppose a civil war is always 
an option. The Pacific Northwest 
could decide to secede over the 
unfavorable portrayal of their 
part of the country in Twin Peaks. 
Unfortunately, not enough people 
watched the show to understand. 
The Southwest is a better candi
date; after all, there ought to be 
some retribution for always say
ing, But its a dry heat.
But in the end, breaking up the 
country wont help. Welljusthave 
a smaller United States needing 
someone to fight.
Never fear, though. Weve al
ways been able to find an evil 
other no matter how far we had 
to go to get one.
World War I was a classic ex
ample: we somehow got the idea 
that Germany, while fighting 
wars on two fronts, would just 
fold up their tents and cross the 
Atlantic to get us.
Whats probably closer to the 
truth is that Americans who lent 
money to the British war effort 
didnt want to run the risk of 
losing their investment. So you 
see, finding an enemy is possible.
I think Canadas probably the 
best bet. Its close, so we can 
convince the people ofthe present 
threat with a horror story about 
Canada annexing 1000 of 
Minnesotas lakes.
The Heartland states could 
easily be stirred into a frenzy just
by the fact that the drinking age 
is only 19 in Canada.
When peace is finally declared, 
we can take Niagara Falls and 
grab the land necessary to con
nect Alaska to the rest of the 
country.
If were shrewd enough, we 
can even get the CN Tower 
thrown into the settlement.
Unfortunately, Canada will 
probably steal our thunder.
All they have to do is let 
Manitoba and New Brunswick 
declare their independence, and 
well have to find someone new 
to dread.
Jason McDonald is a senior 
IM major. He would never really 
advocate a war against Canada 
because it would do unspeak
able damage to National Hockey 
League scheduling.
Welcome and warning: Keep your mouth shut...
Chris Restifo
Id like to offer a hearty welcome to the 
newest people on campus  the fresh
men . Notice I did not say froshpeople, 
whatever they are. Im sure that else
where in the Forum section there is a 
column by a freshman that comments on 
the big move to college. Some may call it 
banal, even boring, but, hey, I was once a 
freshman too.
In this greeting, I dont want to offer 
advice about classes, professors, frater
nity parties, or dorm life. Youll learn 
about all that on your own. Chances are, 
youve already learned some things.
What I want to give you is a warning 
that you would do well to heed. When it 
comes to race, gender, sex, sexual orien
tation, or any of those neat things, the 
best advice I can give is this: Keep your 
mouth shut.
You are entering a new world. It is a 
world where posting on your door a joke 
that includes the word homosexuals 
can get you thrown off a college campus. 
If you remember that particular case, the 
administration of the university in 
question had to succumb to a nasty thing 
known as the First Amendment.
It is a world where some students and 
faculty at CMU think everyone should
take a political indoctrination course 
known affectionately by all as The Di
versity Course. During my freshman 
orientation, diversity was jammed down 
everyones throat. Every program, meet
ing, seminar, etc., had diversity as its 
theme. By the end of orientation, saying 
the D-word was enough to make people 
want to puke. Im not saying we shouldnt 
have a varied student and faculty body, 
but lets be realistic.
It is a world where one university's 
students thought it appropriate to pass a 
motion that, if approved, would force ROTC 
students to take a course on gay and les
bian trials and tribulations. I did not say 
that the students motioned to remove 
ROTC from the campus  as has hap
pened at some universities. I said that the 
students decided it was appropriate to 
force people to take certain classes solely 
because of their association with an orga
nization that, I will admit, discriminates 
against gays and lesbians. In other words, 
if you are in ROTC, you are automatically 
a homophobe. How long before classes are 
forced because of sex or skin color?
It is a world where you may be called 
sexist or racist because you are associ
ated with a fraternity. At CMU, some 
people will be quick to say that if a rape 
happens in any fraternity on campus, all 
fraternity members are responsible. At 
CMU, some people, with lightning speed, 
condemn everyone of sexism  even if 
they dont know certain people at all.
In this greeting, I dont want to offer advice 
about classes, professors, fraternity parties, 
or dorm life. Youll learn about all that on your 
own.... What I want to give you is a warning 
that you would do well to heed.
This is not to say that sexism and rape 
are not present at CMU. They are just 
talk to Stop Rape.
It is a world where a black college 
student can attempt to get a Confederate 
flag, hanging in anothers window, taken 
down because it offends her. When she 
fails, however, she can always hang up a 
Nazi symbol in protest which will so 
enrage Jews on campus that she will be 
the one to take down a flag. How many 
upperclassmen remember the letter to 
the editor last year that took issue with 
ATOs buggy [ Confederate flag offends, 
angers Buggy Watcher, 4/29/91]?
Itis a world where the leaders ofthe ASA 
can threaten Kevin Wolfe with libel over 
the Filipino Love Slave Post. If you wonder 
what Im talking about, just ask anyone 
who read the cmu.market bulletin board 
on Andrew last year. Yes, they say he 
committed libel even though the legal defi
nition of libel was not met and the single 
post was aimed at no specific person. Here, 
one can openly attack another in the Stu
dent Union without the other person being 
given the chance to respond. If they print 
all letters they receive, as they say they do, 
what happened to the letter I wrote, in 
which I asked about Kevin Wolfes oppor
tunity to reply?
So you see, freshmen, both here and 
elsewhere, it is dangerous to say and do 
things. My God, I havent even talked 
about all the PC terms! So, in order to 
survive here, dont talk about sexual ori
entation  unless youre gay. Dont talk 
about race  unless youre a minority. 
Dont put up any signs, flags, or slogans 
 unless they are of the current correct 
type. And if youre white, heterosexual 
male, dont say one word.
Of course, you few rambunctious souls 
out there could challenge the right of 
others to tell you what the correct thing 
to say or do is. But dont tell them I told 
you to do it....
Chris Restifo is a junior chemical engi
neering major.
THETARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief................Beth A. Moses
Managing Editor................Heidi Hoover
Business Manager.....D.A. Henderson
Acting News Editor.......Farron W. Levy
Forum Editor.......................M.K. Rodgers
Sports Editor..............................Alim Ray
Acting Features Ed. .Dexter Kobayashi
Diversions Editor..........Stephen Glicker
Calendar Editor.................Susan Abrams
Magazine Editor..................Alison Green
Dossier Literary Editor.Tamara Liebert
Dossier Design Editor...........Han Wang
Art Editor.......................................John Lin
Photo Editor........................Josh Freeman
Production Manager....Jennifer Forbes
Systems Manager...........Adam Gross
Asst. News Editor.............Megan Dietz
Asst. Forum Editor....................Tim Blass
Asst. Sports Editor............Manish Modh
Asst. Magazine Editor ..Azleena Salleh
Contributing Editors 
Nicole Brockmann, Tad Dockstader, 
James B. Endres, Jennifer Kerstein, 
Jason McDonald, Thomas Nichols, Wil
liam C. Sabram, Ignatius Sasmita, 
Rhonda Struminger
Senior Staff 
Waseem Hussain, Rich Robinson, Mike 
Shapiro, Randy Udavcak, A. Franklin 
Wheeler
Staffwriters 
Allan Bourdius, Alison Carter, Andrew 
Cosentino, Judy Grossman, Dave Mar
tin, Kelly Sterling
Comics
Scott Pakin, Mike Shapiro, Jen Thorson
Production 
Rick Quinn, Kishor K. Rao, Derek Rubinoff, Tina Urso
Design
Samantha Kossman, Rick Quinn
Copy
Catherine Bellanca, Allan Bourdius, 
Ellen Hendrickson, Lenna Kydes, Tina 
Urso
Junior Staff 
Nicole Allen, Jeff Basista, Emily Blough, 
Matt Bushey, Chris Cenkner, Franklin 
Chang, Timothy Conley, Kevin Cooney, 
Benjamin Griffin, Julian Hollingshead, 
Ivona Huszcza, Angela Keslar, Meron 
Langsmen, Kristin Lepage, Katherine 
Lestock, Linda Lombardi, Shazia Najmi, 
Laura Palanker, Amy Potthast, Chris 
Restifo, Abby Schiff, Brian Stewart, 
Katie Swango, Matt Thorpe, Leslie 
Zubaty
Tho Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon 
University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students 
during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members 
of the University community. It is printed by Western Pennsyl
vania Printing. Inc. Subscriptions are available for the se
mester or academic year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of 
The Tartan editorial board. Columns are the opinions of 
individual authors. Tho Tartan reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column. Lcttors to tho Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, membersof the 
University community. A letter intended for publication must 
be signed and include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withhold upon re
quest. Tho Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 
350 words. Tho Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter. Copyright 01991byThoTartan.ThoTartan 
ed itorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegie Mellon
University/Pittsburgh. PA 15213-3890
Funded in part by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Ubrary of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
You are cordially Invited to:
The Third Annual
Black Graduate Student Organization 
(BGSO)
Orientation Dinner
When: Friday, September 6, 1991 
5:30 pm 
Where: Faculty Dining Room 
Skibo Hall
Open to all black graduate students 
Please Dress Appropriately
you're Invited T0 J4.
FREE BARBECUE DINNER
The Roman Catholic Observatory 
4040 Bigelow Boulevard
WEDNESDAY,SEPTEMBER 4, 1991  5 to 8pm
Barbecue, Introductions, Fellowship & Singing
If you need help in finding The Oratory, go to Holland South (Pitt) in the Quad or in 
front of Skibo (CMU) and join a group that will be escorted at 5 and 6 pm to the 
Oratory, 4040 Bigelow Boulevard.
INFORMATION 681-3181 
Come and Meet Old Friends and Make New Ones.
Top ten reasons to 
Tigon...
10. Your mother doesnt use email.
9. You cant check your email from Zeldas or PHI.
8. You can get through to the entire cast and crew with 
one phone call.
7. Your roommate is always on the phone.
6. Your roommate never takes your messages.
5. Your roommate erases the messages on your 
machine.
4. Lastly, your roommate has better phone chemisty 
with prospective dates.
3. Face it, youre never in your room.
2. Recruiters can find you  even over the summer.
1. 24-hour access to your genius friend for homework 
answers.

---------------------------------------------------

Fulfill all your communications requirements with one course.
AT&T STUDENT SAVER PLUSIf youre looking for a simple way to handle all of your communications needs, theres one prerequisite. Join AT&T Student Saver Plus. Youll be able
to get an entire line of products and services designed specifically to save college students time and money. ? Our Reach Out America Calling Plansfcould
save you money, no matter where and when you call. Call Manager^ will save you time by separating !*_iiyour long distance calls from your roommates calls, for
OHU^Card
free. And the AT&T Calling Card* makes it easy to call 83b 000 U11
ctet tuiw - ; ,
) ees tm > >t
from almost anywhere to anywhere. ? And with AT&T, youll always get the most reliable long
distance service. ? Plus, if you register for any of our services-or if youre already an AT&T customer -youll get afree houris worth of AT&T long distance
calling. As well as discounts on all kinds of things, all year round. D So ask about AT&TStudent Saver Plus. Youll find that for this communications course, we did our homework.
Join AT&T Student Saver Plus today. Call 1 800 654-0471 Ext. 4810. IS AT&T
t This service is available lor oll-campus students only.
In addition, campus residents may place direct-dialed calls using university and AT&T ACUS5* Service.
?9O9?AT&Tn0 hUf 01 dlfec,'dialedcoast-to-coast. night and weekend calling, based on prices effective 2/16/91. Offer limited to one $8.25 AT&T Long Distance Certificate per student. Offer valid through June 30.1992.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 19919
They are going to have de
centralized power. Gorbachev 
doesnt have complete power any 
more. We must now deal with 
republics which are more un
stable.
Elliott Schiff
Junior
Statistics
I am not sure about the Baltics 
and other republics. We should 
take them as a whole or not at all 
because of economic reasons. 
Dealing with them as a whole 
would be better than as single 
nations especially in the case of 
an economic bailout.
Jason Smith 
Junior
Mechanical Engineering
It will improve relations with 
the Soviet Union because of the 
more common ideology and be
cause hardliners have been re
moved from the government.
Lisa Leonardo 
Junior
Industrial Management
Since the Soviet Union is in 
so much trouble, the coup was 
a turning point in the relation
ship between the U.S. and So
viet Union for the better.
OPNON
In regards to the recent 
events in the U.S.S.R., how do 
you think the attempted 
coup will affect relations 
between the United States 
and the Soviet Union?
Sarah OConnell
Sophomore
Art
I think the U.S. will be more 
skeptical in giving needed aid to 
the Soviet Union. I do not agree 
with people who think there will 
be a resurgence ofthe Cold War.
Choices present strange 
problems for freshman
FRESHMAN, from page 6
the professor informs us enig
matically on the first day that 
lecture attendance is not man
datory but highly recom
mended on alternate Thurs
days, how am I to deal with the 
new-found freedom presented 
to me?
One solution, to sit in my 
dorm room all day eating 
Doritos and reading my 
roommates diary, would not 
appear to solve the problem.
I tried positive thinking as I 
wandered hopelessly around 
the Cut trying to find the 
building in which I was 
scheduled for class.
However, attempts to pon
der how much great stuff Im 
going to learn today! were 
squelched by the steady drone 
of an instructors voice as he 
enlightened the class on the 
many merits of his daily quiz 
policy.
I have therefore concluded 
that I will never be able to 
enjoy learning for learnings 
sake, for my own sake, for 
Moms sake, Dads sake, or 
goodness sake.
Then why go to college at 
all? Beats me. At the moment, 
I think Im sticking it out for 
the house.
Abby Schiff is a freshman in 
H&SS.
Dont Start School Without One!TOSHIBA
T1200XE
-20/40 MB hard disk 
-1 MB RAM, 7.9 lbs 
- 3.5" 1.44 MB floppy 
- 286 processor
UNIVERSITY DISCOUNTS
on all TOSHIBA models and other hardware & software!
DSR, Inc. 800-875-0037
T1000SE/LE
T2000/SX/e
T3100SX
T3200SX
T5200SX
*VISA & Mastercard Accepted
Jarking  University Center  lireeks  tudent Involvment  Student Senate 
\thletic Facilities  Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student Health  Banking 
iding  Football Field  Student Affairs  Constitution  Construction 
ding  Hostages  Housing  Sororities  Charities  Gymnasium 
kgrj^^^^et Union 
Mouse 
Rap
l_____ ______________ ____ _ :h
DC-1 Os  Howdy's Volume  Bills Hair  Funding  Student Affairs  Construction 
Overcrowding  Housing  fiMfemities * Charities  Dining Service  Environnent # Hostages 0 Recycling East  Weather  Advising  Sex
Geeks  Alcohol  Gay Right * Drugs  Stcfge*1kusic  Mighty Mouse  Comedy 
The Fence * Camiv^^flu<^tt^^9^er2jffau&^^^pr * Construction * Track 
'ield * Overcrowdin^P^p^pJPk.ce9$Pll<iymnasium * Housing 
Sororities  Charities  Dining Service  Environment  Recycling  Congress 
lub Sports  Middle East  Weather  Advising  Crime  Sex  Greeks 
inmintinn * Spy  Alrnhnl  Tlmw Tfonk'nRnll  Mighf-.vMmisP  CnmPrtv  ThP
Authorized TOSHIBA Warrantee & Repair Service
Lutheran Campus Ministry
Lutheran University Center
4515 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
682-6886I
Sundays at LUC:
9:30 am 
10:00 am 
10:45 am
Study
Breakfast
Eucharist
Sundays at Heinz Chapel (beginning September 8)
9:30-10:00 pm Compline-Prayer at the Close of the Day
Wednesdays at LUC:
12 noon Eucharist
5:30-6:30 pm Supper
6:30-7:30 pm Bible Study
Ihe %ev. Ruth Becfer, Campus (Pastor
fum MrT irmAe Lmrp 
pfutu er eTtmUUU
A service of the United Way 
of Allegheny County
9jldBLINE255-1155
Pflfl
W1 cv1qDcoq9 cMOsWMs
HAIRCUTS
50%
CREDIT (B)
jO1l64Rj I77jN 7IN 74N6E E4Sj 1l4jvE6 
1nss mrp crt krtu CmcrtkneCrmz 8?y'"VV
? Haircuts 50% off exclusive for first time clients
? Not valid with any other offer
? Valid Monday through Thursday 8:00 am to 4:00 pm
? Please present this letter for credit 
?EXPIRES November 30, 1991
5404 Centre Avenue 
Pittsburgh. PA 15232 USA
412-621-7900
Seeking to know Christ Jesus, and together, seeking to make Him known.
Come to the college class at 9:30 am on Sunday for coffee, donuts, and fellowship and join the students who are already involved in worship, study, and fellowship at Ascension.
Church of the Ascension (Episcopal) 
Ellsworth and Neville in Oakland 
(412) 621-4361 
Campus minister: Hank Suhr
Sunday 8:30 am Holy Eucharist 
9:30 am College Class 
11:00 am Morning Worship
Wednesday 7:00 am Holy Eucharist
Counseling and Student Development Center
Carnegie Mellon University 
Morewood Gardens - E Tower 
Phone 268-2922
Academic Tutoring 
Crisis Intervention 
Individual Psychotherapy 
Referrals from Health Service
Consultation 
ACOA Support Group 
Assessment & Referral 
Sexual Assult Counseling
Hours by Appointment 
Weekday Walk-in Crisis Hours 
After hours Emergency Service
Division of Student Affairs
1
Imag 
as yc 
hot-lir
Sta
TiG^si
TartnAcigA gNteTawline having 
Dur own per 
ie phone ni
irt Tigor 
Today!
13
Tigon
sonai
jmber.
ling
Meet us in Grey Matter on 
September 5th from 9 to 5. 
or
Call us at 594-2050.

---------------------------------------------------

Before us lies a new day, 
and in the distance a new 
world, ours to create by 
the strength of our faith.
Rodef Shalom Congregation invites all 
students to be our guests at worship services 
for the High Holy Days.
y_
RODEFSHALOM
CONGREGATION 
Fifth and Morewood Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Erev Rosh Hashana
Rosh Hashana Morning 
Erev Yom Kippur
Yom Kippur 
(services continue throughout the day)
September 8
September 9 
September 17
September 18
6:30 pm 
9:15 pm
10 am
6:20 pm 
9:15 pm
10 am
Please call or stop by for complementary tickets in advance. 
621-6566.
DELIVERY
DRIVERS
If you can provide friendly and reliable service, Pizza 
Hut wants you. We currently have full & part time 
openings for Delivery Drivers.
You'll enjoy:
 Earnings potential (Up to $8/hr. & Greater)
 Bonus for accident-free drivers
 Flexible hours
If you are 18 years of age, have a good driving record, a 
reliable car, and can document your insurance coverage, 
we would like to talk to you.
Call or visit the following delivery units in your area.
4710 Baum Rd. 
Oakland 
683-6300
4048 Beechwood Blvd. 
Greenfield 
421-1111
2175 S. Highland 
Shadyside 
361-4212
 1991 Pizza Hut, Inc.
YOU BELONG WITH THE BEST
__________Equal Opportunity Employer mlflh
6CW 1rm3uteh crt D^'U/VUU UefneKh rmsM D8U/ n 3rm3uteWe all want to help save the planet, but sometimes Its 
difficult to know where to begin. An evening with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony will start you on your way. It brings 
you back to the basics. With no side effects, just pure
Take Note of This..
Afternoon Magic Series $37.50
Concerts begin at 2:30 p.m.
Sept. 15
Lorin Maazel, conductor 
The Music of Sibelius and Dvorak 
Dec. 1
Charles Duloit, conductor 
Chantal Juillet, violin 
Carol Ann Allred, soprano 
The Music of Mozart, 
-'"'Stravinsky and Falla
Jan.12
David Zinman, conductor 
Pinchas Zukerman, violin 
The Music of Torke, Tchaikovsky 
and Rachmaninov 
Mar. 1
Leonard Slatkin, conductor 
Stephen Bishop-Kovacevich, piano 
The Music of Bartk and 
Bruckner
Apr. 5 
Ivan Fischer, conductor 
Vladimir Spivakov, violin 
Cynthia Koledo DeAlmeida, oboe 
The Music of Bach, Haydn 
and Stravinsky 
May 3
Lorin Maazel, conductor 
Andres Cardenes, violin 
The Music of Elgar and Sibelius
Iefut d6V 3rm3ute hutCuh ntu ngnCsnosu er heTiumeh5 1nss ^"y("VVU 
gKaBBBBHBBSSBilBSBHBgEaiHHBHBBHSSKnBSBBBBflSTUDENT SERIES ORDER FORM
Mail Jo: STUDENT SERIES  The Pittsburgh Symphony  Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts  600 Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15222
All Six Concerts for OnlyD ^'U/V Series Price
X_________________No. of Seals
= Totalx 6eTiume 4UwU vTkout x
Method of Payment EH Check payable to: Pittsburgh Symphony Student Series 
O Visa ? MasterCard HH American Express
xjWaU wneux
dsunhu dJCms vnku
nh Ce Faaunth rm 1ntixxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx6CbmneTtuxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 Seating assignments are made on a "best available" basis. Students may exchange one concert's ticket 
for any other PSO concert, depending on seating availability, during the regular season.
For More Information, 
Or To Order By Phone,392-4900
 Il ffi I^ttsbi trq i ^1?! ion^7 )Ri.\  Music: I)ira:c;ix)R
- V-. The/l/e^. Power of Live Music r rs';: -/
DALMO
OPTICAL
SAVE 20%
A NEW DISCOUNT
FOR CMU STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF
The 23-Checkpoint Eye Exam:
Our computerized eye exam provides a detailed 
optometric profile. The result... confidence in vision 
for you.
In-House Laboratories:
One-hour service is available from our in-house labora
tories, and you get Dalmo's assurance of the highest 
quality and accuracy in the industry.
The New Vision  In Frames and Contacts: 
Selection. It's the first thing that meets the eye at every 
Dalmo Optical Center. From bold colors and 
sophisticated profiles in frames to Extended Wear, Gas 
Permeable and Disposable Contacts, Dalmo has it all!
Guaranteed Lowest Price:
The finest designs from Europe ... the best designs in 
America ... Dalmo has them all for the guaranteed 
lowest price.
Dr. B.H. Grossman, 
Director
Squirrel Hill 
5824 FORBES AVE. 
521-2100

---------------------------------------------------

6dINE6
PRESS PASS
by Jason McDonald
And if they 
want to borrow 
a cup of sugar...
When I first heard the news 
that the Central Catholic High 
School football team was going 
to be using Gesling Stadium 
on a one game trial basis, I 
had the usual collegiate 
reaction. My first thought was, 
HIGH SCHOOL KIDS 
HERE? CALL OUT THE 
NATIONAL GUARD! Then I 
began to think about it and it 
made more and more sense. 
Good public relations, theyre 
probably paying us to use the 
field, and its another good 
form of on-campus entertain
ment. Maybe its not such a 
bad idea, I thought.
However, my journalistic 
instinct (such as it is) kicked 
in  I wanted to be sure. I 
didnt want to write a column 
supporting Central using our 
field only to belatedly find out 
about some huge on-campus 
riot complete with dormlooting and car-tipping. Talk 
about your embarassing 
retractions. So I figured I had 
better go see how things went 
before I passed judgement on 
the wisdom of this plan.
So I gritted my teeth and 
headed over to Gesling on 
Friday night to watch Central 
Catholic do battle with North 
Catholic  two schools that I 
know almost nothing about. 
The only image of Central 
Catholic that I ever had was a 
bunch of guys paying homage 
to a black obsidian statue of 
Dan Marino. North Catholic ... 
well, its to the north, and I 
know at least one person who 
graduated from there.
One of the first things that I 
noticed was that, in addition to 
the crowds from the respective 
schools, there seemed to be a 
good number of CMU students 
in the crowd. Considering that 
it was a hot, humid Friday 
night, I was sort of surprised 
that so many showed up.
Mens socccer starts with tough opponents
By JASON MCDONALD
Tartan Contributing Editor
When we last saw the Carnegie Mellon 
University mens soccer team, they had 
just finished one of the best seasons in 
team history, posting a 12-^1 record, 
including a 53 record in the University 
Athletic Association. Their 12 wins tied
said junior stopper John Stivoric. Theres 
still three or four freshmen that have to 
find their way, but weve had three favor
able scrimmages.
The Tartans shouldnt have too tough 
a time getting the ball in the net. Last 
year, the team averaged just less than 
three goals per game, including wins of 
8-0 and 7-0.
nights scrimmage.
The defense will be bolstered by the 
return of Stivoric, who missed all of last 
season with an injury. Stivoric will move 
to the stopper position, leaving senior 
Alan Horn in the sweeper spot. Moving 
from the midfield to fill in for Stivoric 
last season, Horn played well enough to 
earn All-UAA and second team All-Midto win the title  the Tartans will battle 
tough non-conference teams such as the 
University of Pittsburgh, Bethany Col
lege, and Washington and Lee Univer
sity.
However, the teams on the schedule 
may might not be as big a problem as 
where the games are. CMU begins the 
season with four of five games on the road,
Football faces trial by fire
Graduate Scott Barnyak rips through the opposing defense.
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Everyone is wondering what 
the Tartan football team will do 
for an encore.
Last season they captured the 
inaugural University Athletic 
Association title, posting a per
fect 10-0 record and advancing 
to the Division III playoffs for 
the first time since 1985. They 
set eight team, seven individual, 
and two NCAA records while 
putting together the third-longest winning streak in Division 
III, 13 games.
But with the 1991 season ap
proaching, the Tartans refuse to 
dwell on last years success. 
Their goal is simple: to take this 
season one game at a time.
We had a terrific year, said 
head coach Rich Lackner, But 
its not what you did last year 
that counts. Its what you can do 
for me now.
Several pre-season polls rank 
the Tartans among the top 
twenty teams in Division III. 
They are also favored to win the 
UAA for the second consecutive 
year, despite losing All-Americans Scott Barnyak, Bob OToole, 
and eight All-UAA selections.
The Tartans do return ten 
starters (six on offense, four on 
defense) and 33 lettermen from 
last years undefeated team; 
there are a lot of inexperienced 
players in the starting lineup 
and it may take a few games for 
the team to gel.
There will be no quarterback 
controversy in 1991  senior 
Sam Mangano gets the nod.
Last season Mangano com
pleted five of 10 passes for 66 
yards and was an impressive 
third in rushing with 364 yards 
and three touchdowns.
The coaches havent ex
panded the passing game from 
last season, Mangano said. But 
they have put in more special
ized plays to utilize my running 
ability.
Backing up Mangano, and vy
ing for the number two spot, are 
sophomore Steve Nicholson and 
freshmen Chris Dee and Matt 
Neiss.
Mangano will be without vet
eran receivers  both Jarrod 
Siket and Andy Van Sprang are 
sophomores  but according to 
offensive co-ordinator Rich 
Erdelyi, Were probably as tal
ented as we ever have been at 
the receiver position.
Im going to have to show 
that I can do more than just run 
fast, said Siket, who has a 4.4 
speed in the 40 yard dash. As 
coach always tells us, Speed is a 
luxury, not a necessity. I want 
to do everything necessary: block 
well, work the offense, and most 
importantly, hold onto the ball. 
The Tartans have a new face 
in the tight end slot as well, with 
junior Scott Peters starting for 
the first time. Erdelyi said, He 
gives our offense another dimen
sion, and he may have the best 
hands on the team.
With two-thirds of 1990s 
starting backfield gone, the Tar
tans look to seniors GregMarmol 
and Drew Pizzurro and junior 
Griffin Pero to carry the ball. 
Marmol was fifth on the team in 
rushing last season with 261 
yards on 48 attempts. Pizzurro 
was sixth, with 154 yards on 40 
attempts. Pero carried the ball 
24 times for 124 yards.
Things should be spread out 
in the running game this year, 
said Marmol. I dont think any 
one of us will carry the ball more 
than the others. Itll be a bal
anced attack.
Anchoring the offense is a line 
that paved the way for the team
single-season records in total 
yards (4,363), rushing yards 
(2,797), rushing touchdowns 
(40), and first downs (237). Last 
season was their first as a unit, 
but was the finest overall per
formances by an offensive line 
in recent Tartan footbal history.
Everything just clicked for us 
last year, said senior lineman 
Rich Wilson. Hopefully, itll all 
click again this year.
Pre-season All-Americans 
Wilson, junior Chuck Jackson, 
and seniors Ed Garda and 
Mandez Redman return. The 
new kid on the line is center 
Mike Lemansky, a senior. Also 
receiving time will be sophomore 
John Cain and junior Todd 
Petersen.
On the other side of the football, the Tartans lost all three 
members of last seasons start
ing defensive line to graduation. 
(Last years defense held oppo
nents to a team-record low 341 
points.) This year, five linemen 
will play a key role in the Tar
tans 3-4 defensive scheme: jun
iors Mike Barr and Jason Lange 
and sophomores John 
Hutchison, Ben Burton, and 
Shane Billings.
Well be rotating them in and 
out depending on the opponents 
and the situation, said defen
sive coordinator Terry Bodnar.
We each have our own tal
ents and strengths, added Barr. 
But I think whoever they put in 
there will get the job done.
Despite the loss of two of last 
years starting linebackers, the 
Tartans appear strong at the 
position. Grad student Mike
D. A. Henderson/Tartan File Photo
Hession returns as inside line
backer, along with junior Matt 
Pielert on the outside; both are 
pre-season All-American selec
tions. Filling in the gaps are 
senior Rich Koemer and junior 
Jim Cooke.
Hession feels the defense will 
be even more aggressive than 
last season. Wed shut teams 
down early [last season], our of
fense would score a lot, and wed 
lose that killer instinct, he said. 
Wed give up cheap touchdowns 
at the end. This year well really 
work on shutting teams down 
completely.
Hession was ranked second 
on the team last year with 71 
tackles; Pielert was sixth with 
46, and added 2.5 sacks. In re
serve roles, Koemer had 14 tack
les and Cooke had 13.
Please see FOOTBALL, page 13
any UAA team. Unfortunately, the door 
to the Division III playoffs closed with 
the Tartans standing on the outside.
Now its 1991, and look out UAA. They 
are back, and they just might be a better 
team this year than they were last year. 
After all, the Tartans only lost one player 
(midfielder Chris Kasabach) at gradua
tion; they return a solid group of seniors; 
and their younger players can only have 
gotten better with a years experience 
under their belts.
I think this is one of the best teams 
Ive had if we dont have the injuries, 
said head coach Nick Gaudioso. We have 
four freshmen in the lineup, but we should 
be pretty goo/1.
Experience-wise, were right up there,
scoring with 15 goals and five assists, 
tying the CMU goal-scoring record in the 
process.
Kang will have a lot of help, though. 
Sophomore Min Chong, a second team 
All-UAA selection, and junior Terence 
Sibiya both had impressive first seasons. 
However, Sibiyas status remains up in 
the air as he has not returned from his 
home in Swaziland yet.
Freshmen Vince Russell and Pat 
Lucignani, and senior Rob Schaeffer will 
provide the rest of the scoring punch. 
One more midfield position remains up 
in the air, with a trade-off between two 
or three players, according to Stivoric. 
Senior George Gaughan and freshman 
Alex Amezquita saw action during last
should get the starting nod at the other 
defense slots.
The reason well be good this year is 
that we had four defens emen who can 
really play well, said Gaudioso.
Goalkeeping should also be solid this 
year. The tandem of Dave Shapiro and 
Brian Sanders combined for nine shut
outs even though both were freshmen. 
Sanders wont be back this year, but if 
Shapiros increased experience counts 
for anything, look for the team record of 
10 shutouts to fall this season.
As always, the Tartans will face stiff 
competition all season. In addition to a 
tough conference schedule  CMU is 
projected to finish fourth in the UAA, 
with the University of Rochester slated
The UAA took over our scheduling this 
year, and we ended up with a September 
thats just outrageous, said Gaudioso. 
We have two two-game weekends on the 
road, which is really tough in soccer. 
Its a tough schedule, said Stivoric. 
We play some really strong teams and 
have a lot of road games.
Well see how it goes, though. If we can 
get through September, well be on a roller 
coaster ride. Well have some momentum 
and well be able to play with the confi
dence we showed in pre-season.
The Tartans season starts Saturday 
with a game at Case Western Reserve 
University. The first home game will be a 
September 10 match against the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh.
Tartan womens soccer begins first varsity season
I'm expecting for us to be competi
tive among Division III schools. 
 Soccer Coach Julie Shackford
victories generally dont 
provide much to write home 
about  but it. was to be 
expected. Central is a peren
nial contender at the Quad-A 
level (the class for the biggest 
high schools, for those of you 
not familiar with WPIAL 
standards) while North 
Catholic is only a AAA school.
The only game highlight of 
note was the punt where the 
Central Catholic returner ran 
for about 50 yards before 
dropping the ball at about the 
15-yard line. It was the sort of 
play you end up seeing on 
Weeks Best Plays segments 
on evening newscasts.
But the game isnt the big 
story here. Did the great 
experiment work? Do we really 
want Central Catholic to 
continue playing home games 
on our turf next year? I think 
the answer to both questions is 
yes. Whether Carnegie Mellon 
and Central Catholic pursue 
this relationship any further 
remains to be seen, but I think 
both sides have a lot to gain.
Central Catholic obviously 
would gain a home field in the 
literal sense, while CMU 
would add another alternative 
to its on-campus entertain
ment and would get to enjoy 
the satisfaction of being a good 
neighbor.
Tartan Contributing Editor 
Jason McDonald is a senior 
IM major.
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Staffwriter
This year a new team earns 
the name Tartans. Last year a 
club team, the womens soccer 
team makes its debut as a var
sity squad on September 7 at 
Case Western Reserve Univer
sity.
Julie Cunningham Shackford 
coached last years club team to 
a 7-3-1 season against a mixture 
of club and varsity teams. This 
year, the competition takes a 
step up as the women take on a 
full varsity schedule. Although 
they wont be jumping right into 
the University Athletic Associa
tion, the womens schedule consists of teams with good reputa
tions. Case Wester Reserve Uni
versity, Allegheny College, Seton 
Hill College, and Swarthmore 
College are all mainstays in the 
NAIA playoffs. Other local var
sity teams on the schedule are 
St. Francis College, Waynesburg 
College, andHiram College. The 
women will slowly ease into a 
proper University Athletic As
sociation schedule in the next 
two years.
This years team, a wellmeshed group, lost only one 
player at graduation last spring. 
Led by experienced tri-captains, 
the team hopes that familiarity 
with one another and a strong 
cache of talent will lead them 
along the right path to victory 
this year.
The team is led by senior 
midfielder Elizabeth Zika, who 
was an All-WPIAL player dur
ing her high school years. Excel
lent ball-handling skills and the 
ability to get the ball to the other 
play ers m ake her aleaderonthe 
field. Strong technical ability 
and tactical awareness have pro
pelled junior sweeper Sonya 
Chmielnicki to share the cap
tain position with Zika and 
Rachael Weiss. Weiss is another 
seasoned junior who can play 
anywhere on the field and whose 
ability to shoot complements the 
triumvirate of on-the-field tri
captains.
Other players to watch are 
sophomores Rachel Bourn and 
Julie Paul, seniors Aru 
Deshmukh and Samara Lenga, 
and freshman Christine Isaly. 
Sophomore Trish Henrich and
senior Elena Craft share the 
goalkeeping duties.
Coach Shackford expects that 
the season will be one of trial 
and error. Its really hard to say 
how well well do this year, but 
Im expecting for us to be com
petitive among Division III 
schools.
Zika expressed her feelings on 
the upcoming season: Im re
ally excited about this year. We 
only graduated one girl last year, 
so we have experience playing 
together. Itshouldbe pretty fun. 
Isaly, on joining the team this 
year, said, its been really easy 
[fitting in with the team]. 
Theyve all been very nice. Im 
excited to get to play soccer.

---------------------------------------------------

7FlI6 7N4wFY 6I14Fl6
9/6 Movie: The Boys in the Band 
9/13 Rap: "Differences" (tentative topic) 
9/20 Work/Study Break at NY, NY 
9/27 Movie: My Beautiful Laundrette 
7:30pm BH254C
SINj 7FlI6 7j6E4R4E4j6
9/14 Trip to the Zoo
9/27 OUTDANCE (Wherrett Room)
OUTLAND: Skibo 59 Phone: x8794 
Bboard: assocs.out
Funded by your Activities Fee
More and more PhDs across the coun
try are recommending Hewlett-Packard 
financial and scientific calculators 
to their students. And for some very 
strong reasons.
The HP 48SX Scientific Expandable 
has powerful graphics tools that are 
remarkably helpful to students learn
ing mathematical concepts. And with 
the equation solver feature, its excel
lent for applying mathematics to 
engineering, according to Dr. William 
Rahmeyer, a professor of civil and 
environmental engineering at Utah 
State University.
The HP Business Consultant II has an 
equation solver and extensive math
HP Business Consultant II 
p: HP 48SX Scientific ExpandableIt'fl
functions. These free the students from 
computational tedium so they can 
think and interact on a higher level 
says Dr. Lee V. Stiff, a professor of math 
education at North Carolina State 
University.
So go check out the HP calculator line 
at your college bookstore or HP retailer. 
Youll agree, theres no faster relief from 
the pain of tough problems.
HP calculators. The best for your 
success.
HEWLETT
PACKARD
AN EPISCOPAL CHAPLAINCY
Wednesday at the Lutheran University Center
12:00pm Holy Eucharist and Lunch for 
Students and Faculty 
Afternoon Fr. Marshall's Hours
5:30 Supper
6:30 Discussion Group
7:30 Quiet Study Place until 11:00
Carol Peluso 
Costumes
115 Meyran Ave.
Oakland 
Formerly H & R Block
SALES
Costumes  Masks  Wigs  
Jewelry  Vintage Clothing 
 Makeup
SYSTEM 
ELECTRONICS 
(412) 856-1505
At) Spienti fu eludei I Mj; It AM, N Dq 
upm Hard Drive, Dnce Card & Mnnlliir 
3 1/2 A 5 1/4 III) Floppy Drive*, 101 
Key Keyboard, 2 Serial, I Parallel,
1 Game Pori, I Year Warranly
286-12- $ 850.00 Call today
386SX-20  $1,050.00 for oilier 
386-25- $1,175.00 Configurali!
at the University of Pittsburgh 
and Carnegie Mellon University 
based at 
the Lutheran University Center 
The Rev. Kelly Marshall, Episcopal Chaplain
Lutheran University Phone 682.6886
Office Phone Number 362.1557
The Lutheran University Center is located at 
4515 Forbes Avenue, near Forbes and Craig, 
and across the sreet from the Scaife Gallery.
CefrTeGod, its a vicious circle.
In a world too often ruled by war, hunger, disease and inhumanity. The Episcopal Church 
believes there is hope. Join us and grow in the faith and fellowship of Jesus Christ. 
The Episcopal Church
Sunday at the Lutheran University Center
9:30 am What Is Baptism?
10:00 Breakfast
10:45 Holy Eucharist
12:00 pm Lunch 
9:30 Compline at Heinz Chapel
The Chaplain is present and available on 
Wednesday evenings, during office hours, and 
at other times by appointment. He's as close as 
the telephone in case of any emergency.
THE NEW AND IMPROVED

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 199113
IM NewsV-ball gains experience
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
Our womens volleyball team gained 
lots of experience last year, finishing in 
sixth place out of seven teams in the 
University AtheleticAssociation Cham
pionships.
The team lost only Nicole Hanak from 
last year and now hopes to move up to 
third or fourth rank in the UAA.
I think we will do better because 
were deeper, head coach Charlotte 
Fisher said. I can use players selec
tively now. The team will probably 
start the season with 15 or 16 players. 
Because of these extra players there 
will be a starting eight-player rotation 
instead of six starters that play for the
entire match.
The offensive scheme has also 
changed so that there will be two set
ters instead of one. [year] captain Lisa 
Devlin has been the setter for a year 
and will now be getting help from jun
ior Ann Feng. Devlin will be able to hit 
more with the extra setter in the game.
Other returning juniors include 
Joanna Downer, Kathy Iovine, Lisa 
Leonardo, Elizabeth Rowlands, and 
Heather Thompson. Leonardo was a 
major force in the middle last year but 
saw limited playing time because of an 
injury to her ankle. Thompson and 
Rowlands have started for three years 
and their experience will be valuable.
Sophomores Chris Knorr, Jennifer 
Nu, and Wendy Wasko will also con
tribute to the Tartans. Knorr is also a 
setter and will be useful in the new 
offense.
This years freshmen, Wendy Bur
ton, Caroline Skarada, and Danielle 
Walter, could add important help in 
specialized areas. Burton has already 
shown her talents as a back court spe
cialist while Skarada will backup 
Leonardo in the middle hitting posi
tion.
The schedule for this year has two 
small changes from last season, the 
larger of which being a new tourna
ment at Washington and Lee. There 
will also be more competition in the 
UAAs and Round Robin Tournament 
this year with the addition of Case 
Western Reserve University.
IM BOARD
The Intramural Board will hold its 
first meeting this Thursday 12 pm in 
the IM Office. Elections will be held 
for vice-president, secretary, trea
surer, and president for Womens Only. 
The 1991-92 president of the Intra
mural board is Buddy Feitt.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Touch Football
Entries due Thursday at 4:30 pm for 
all divisions: Majors, Intermediates, 
Minors, and Womens Only.
A touch football rules clinic will be 
held Thursday at 4:30 pm in the small 
gym. Each team must have a repre
sentative at this important rules meet
ing. We need many football officials.
Tennis
You must have a least four players 
on your team, as two singles and one 
doubles match will be played at the 
same time. Final entry date will be 
Thursday, September 12. Please sign 
up in 101 Gym Office.
Intramural Golf
Matches will be played on Schenley 
Park Golf Course.
Match date will be announced at a 
later date.
Compiled by 
ALIM RAY
Tartan Football picked to win second UAA title
7IIEFll5 ctrk page ??
The secondary also returns 
two starters from 1990, seniors 
Jeff Palaima and John Fratto. 
Fratto, a pre-season All-Ameri
can, had 32 tackles and four 
interceptions (second on the 
team) in 1990. Palaima recorded 
18 tackles.
We dont have a lot of guys 
returning who have played 
much, but everybodys working 
hard, said Palaima. I think 
what we lack in depth, well make 
up for in speed and agility.
U.S. Department of State 
U.S. Information Agency 
U.S. Department of Commerce
Career Opportunity
Mark Your Calendar For 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 9,1991
Registration Deadlines:
 October 4 for test centers in the 
United States
 September 13 for test centers 
overseas
The Written Examination is the initial 
step in competing for a career as a 
Foreign Service Officer.
Applicants for the examination must be:
 At least 20 years old on the 
examination date
 United States citizens
 Available for worldwide 
assignment
To obtain further information and an 
application, contact your Campus 
Placement Office or write:
The Recruitment Division FSWE 
Department of State 
P.O. Box 12226 
Arlington, VA 22209
.. An Equal Opportunity Employer..
Joining Palaima and Fratto in 
the starting lineup are seniors 
Drew Helms and Doug Stauffer, 
both first-time starters on the 
team. Helms picked off a pass 
and recovered two fumbles last 
season along with making 12 
tackles. Accordingto Bodnar, all 
four starters have performed 
well at camp.
The kicking game is one of the 
biggest question marks this year.
Sophomore linebacker John 
Knutson will take over punting 
duties from Wayne Carson who 
graduated. Junior Fred 
Harding, who backed up Joe 
Schwerha who graduated last 
year, is now the Carnegie Mel
lon kicker.
Were really pleased with 
Fred, said Lackner. His legs 
gotten a lot stronger and he 
seems to be in a groove. The 
kicking game was a big concern 
for us, but we feel Fred can pick 
up where [Schwerha] left off last
year.
As for Knutson: Hes punting 
the best of anyone right now. 
Were hopeful well get a solid 
year of punting out of him.
All in all, this is a good Tartan 
team which, barring major inju
ries, should fare well; look for 
them to win their second straight 
University Athletics Association 
title. However, with teams like 
much-improved Washington
University, Coast Guard Acad
emy, and University of Roches
ter on the schedule, the 1991 
football season will be anything 
but easy.
Wash U. has steadily im
proved over the last few years, 
and theyll definitely challenge 
us, saidMangano. Coast Guard 
was a very physical team last 
year; they took it to us. And 
Rochester is always tough, es
pecially at their place.
Other games to watch: Allegh
eny in the season opener at
Gesling Stadium on September
8, and Adrian College Gators at 
home on October 5. The Tartans 
scraped by Adrian in the final 
seconds last year, 24-23, in their 
closest game of the season; the 
Gators were the 1990 Division 
III champions.
Were not worried about the 
tenth game of the season or any 
other game right now, said 
Siket. Our first priority is to 
beat Allegheny.
The Allegheny game, said 
Palaima, will be trial by fire.
track lacrosse ice hockey 
football crew rugby basketball 
soccer field, hockey baseball cow 
tipping indoor track 
swimming track lacrosse ice 
hockey football crew rugby 
basketball soccer field hockey 
baseball cow tipping indoor 
track swimming track lacrosse 
ice hockey football crew rugby 
basketball soccer field hockey 
baseball cow tipping cross 
country indoor track 
swimming track lacrosse ice 
hockey football crew rugby 
basketball soccer field hockey 
baseball cow tipping indoor 
track swimming track lacrosse 
i(0\ ba
baseftaCT 'couTtipping TncToor
basebalf^o^^jping indoor 
track swimming track lacrosse 
ice hockey tennis golf football 
crew rugby basketball soccer 
field hockey baseball cow 
tipping indoor track
swimming track lacrosse ice 
hockey football crew rugby 
basketball soccer field hockey 
baseball cow tipping indoor 
track swimming track lacrosse 
ice hockey football crew rugby 
track lacrosse ice hockey 
football crew rugby basketball 
soccer field hockey baseball cow 
tipping indoor track
swimming track lacrosse ice
To write for the Tartan 
Sports, drop by Skibo 
Room 50 or call x2111 and 
ask for Alim Ray.

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 1991
Tennis plans for UAA championships tournament
By CHRIS CENKNER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Its the beginning of a new year here 
at Carnegie Mellon University and the 
mens and womens tennis teams are 
gearing up for competition.
Coach Peter Moss has high hopes for 
the womens team this year. In past 
years, it has been hard to carry a full
squad to the University Athletic Asso
ciation Championships because it 
clashed with Carnival Weekend.
Fortunately, this year the events do 
not coincide, so the team will be strongly 
represented. With returning letterperson sophomore Whitney Weber, 
sophomore Sharyn Rotunno, senior 
Silvina Candia, sophomore Cami 
VanDyke, andjunior LauraAhr, Moss
is confident that the team will do very 
well atthe UAAs. AlongwiththeUAAs 
on April 2-5, the matches against Case 
Western Reserve University on Sep
tember 20, the University of Rochester 
September 21, and Penn State-Behrend 
October 19 look to be the toughest this 
season.
On the mens side, things are more 
uncertain. Were going to be hampered
this season, Moss said, when asked 
about his expectations for the mens 
team. With two ofthe top players study
ing abroad (junior Andrew Lee is in 
England and sophomore Briton Trim
mer is in France), there are some spots 
that need to be filled, at least during 
the fall season.
Two of those spots are filled by re
turning sophomore lettermen Alan
Battle and Mike Blaudry, but the rest 
are yet to be decided. The biggest match 
this year for the team is the Rolex 
Tournament October 4 and 5 at 
Swarthmore College.
The first competition for the women 
will be September 3 and 7 at the West 
Liberty Tournament while the mens 
first match will be September 14 against 
Fairmont.
SAE captures 1990-91 Intramural title in record-setting year
By KELLY STERLING
Tartan Staffwriter
Last year proved to be a recordsetting year for participation in 
Carnegie Mellons intramural 
athletics program.
Overall numbers included 
7,974 entries, of which 4,965 stu
dents actually participated as 
members of one of the 980 teams. 
Earl J. Birdy, director of intra
mural athletics, calls CMUs program one of the best in the 
country for percentage of stu
dents participating, considering 
our enrollment of approximately 
6000.
Results from the 1990-911.M. 
season show the fraternity 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon as the over
all winner, having the highest 
total of final sports points. The 
program consists of nearly 40 
activities ranging from touch 
football in the fall to softball in
the spring.
Each sport consists of four di
visions: major, intermediate, 
minor, and womens, with the 
major division designed to be 
the most challenging.
Highlights from last years 
program include long-time ri
vals Alpha Tau Omega and Beta 
Theta Pi-A battling for the bas
ketball majors championship. 
ATO came away with the vic
tory as its own Don DeCaro took
most valuable player. However, 
Beta Thunder did avenge its loss 
later by defeating ATO in the 
softball majors division.
Theta Xi-A took care of the 
competition in soccer, as well as 
capturing the mens division of 
the I.M. cross-country meet. The 
womens division in that meet 
was wrapped up by the Womens 
Basketball Team-White.
Other highlights for the 
womens division included the
Tartanettes defeating SUPA in 
basketball and the sorority 
Kappa Alpha Theta winning the 
soccer championship.
The first activity of the 1991- 
92 year is touch football. En
tries should be submitted by Sep
tember 5 at 4:30 pm. Other fall 
sports coming soon are tennis, 
golf, and co-recreational volley
ball.
The first organizational meet
ing to choose officers will be held
Thursday, September 5, in the 
I.M. office. Junior Buddy Feitt 
has already been reelected as 
president for 1991-92.
Birdy said that hes looking 
forward to even more participa
tion this year, especially with 
the improved outdoor facilities 
[I.M. field and stadium].
In addition to more participa
tion, Birdy also said that hes 
always looking for a few good 
officials!
Mens and womens cross country teams gear up for season
By MERON LANGSNER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
& ALIM RAY 
Tartan Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellons mens cross-coun
try team can look forward to a real 
interesting season said head coach 
Gary Meckley while a seven-person 
womens team will try to gage their 
chances in the University Athletic As
sociation by the end of September.
The cross-country teams previous 
success has been record breaking. They 
have gone undefeated since 1978 and 
have not lost a home meet since 1975. 
The winning streak has been going on 
for 109 meets.
For the first time in fifteen years 
freshman runners will be a deciding 
factor in the seasons outcome. CMUs 
schedule will included many Division I 
schools which typically attract better 
runners thean Division III schools and
are better competition for CMU.
Though this years team is relatively 
inexperiences in comparison to previ
ous teams, they benefit from workouts 
based on the latest research. These 
high tech workouts as coach Meckley 
calls them include lactate threshold 
workouts that bring, the heart rate up 
to 80 to 90 percent of maximum. This 
and other methods allow the runners to 
train more efficiently and hold a racing 
pace for an extended period of time.
On the womens side senior Carolyn 
Lowe will lead the team last year and 
placed second in the UAA champion
ships with a time of 22:26. Other re
turning runners are senior Emily 
Burke, sophomore Cynthia Kolanowski, 
andjunior Laura Sibley.
We dont have that much experi
ence... in the third, fourth, fifth, and 
sixth spot, head womens cross coun
try coach Dario Donatelli said. Were 
going to have a wide gap between
Carolyn and the rest of the girls. The 
gap will be especiallly hard to close 
because there are only seven runners 
on the team this year.
Despite the middle runners inexperi
ence, Donatelli still has faith. I think 
we are going to have a pretty close 
group in the [three, four, five, and six 
positions]. I be would glad if we had a 
different [order of] third, fourth, fifth, 
sixth, runners eachmeet. It would mean 
someone is doing well [all the time].
Szechuan Gourmet
Mon-Thurs 11:30am-10pm 
Fri-Sat ll:30am-llpm 
Sunday 4pm-10pm
RATED **** CHINESE RESTAURANT
Dine In & Take-out
fifth ave
walnutSt.e/a2oCall for free Delivery on all orders 
over $10 to Limited Areasparkingjoj. 
Ve arc here
1?3
?
oCL683-1763
*NEW!!!
709 Bellafonte SI.
Back lo school specials: 10% off with CMU IDExpires Sept 30. 
Dine in only.
Telaropa
Hand-Made Imports, Clothing, & JewelryEnvironmental Tee'sGDMEtc...
10% Off
thru September with this ad & student ID
located on Forbes & Atwood St. Limit 1 per customer.
VomWoK
194vj6j Nj6EFNFvE
Dine In, Carry-out, and Catering
Downtown
124 Sixth St.Oakland
400 S. Craig St.
(Near Cathedral 
of Learning)
687-7777
Mon.  Sat. 
11am to 10pm
Carryout Parking all Hours.
Nearby Free Parking 
after 5 pm & 
Weekends.
(Near Heinz Hall)
765-2222
Mon.  Sat. 
11am to 9pm
Parking Garage Available 
Above Restaurant.
classifiedTHE TARTAN
268-2111
ADOPTION
Loving, secure, married, Caucasian 
couple wants very much to give 
your newborn a warm and happy 
home. Expenses paid. For more in
formation call collect after 6 pm 
(814) 833-8215
COMPUTERS
CAN YOU "C" OR LISP? Looking to 
use your programming skills while 
exploring a research field...and earn
ing money, too? The Engineering 
Design Research Center (EDRC) on 
campus seeks qualified undergradu
ates (3.0 QPA or higher) to help on 
research projects. Some program
ming ability desirable. Call xEDRC 
on campus for more details.
HOUSING
Roommate wanted  share beau
tiful, furnished, three-bedroom, 
Highland Park house, on bus line, 
private room, $165.00 plus. Call 
jane 624-2784
JOBS
BABYSITTER/HOUSEKEEPER in
Squirrel Hill. Own transportation. 
Non-smoker. For21 /2-year-old boy. 
Friendly dog. $4/hour. Need 2 hours 
daily on Tuesday, Thursday and Sat
urday. Monday and Friday 11:30- 
6:30. Wednesday 11:3010:00. Call 
521 -7017 if you can help during all 
or some of these times. References 
and strong child development back
ground required.
The Tartan Business Office is looking for business assis
tants, sales representatives, office assistants, and a 
classifieds director. If you are interested call Deborah 
Henderson at x2111.
FOOLPROOF FUNDRAISING Raise 
S500 ... $1000 ... S1500 for your 
fraternity, sorority, team, or other 
campus organization. Absolutely no 
investment required! Act now for 
the chance to win a Caribbean cruise 
and fabulous prizes! CALL 1-800- 
950-8472, ext 50.
Post advertising materials on cam
pus. Write: College Distributors, 33 
Pebblewood Tr., Naperville, IL 
60563.
Batik & Tie Dye Artist seeks parttime help. Experience not neces
sary. 481 -2911 8am to 11 am.
Club Leaders for Young Judea. Re
sponsible, creative, likes working 
with children. September to April 
employment, Sunday meeting. Sal
ary--expenses. Licensed Driver, over 
21. Call Y.J. Regional Office  521 - 
4877.
TRAVEL
SUPER CHEAP PLANE TICKET FOR 
SALE. PIT to LaGuardia Sept. 6th 
3:40 p.m., LCA-NYC to PIT Sept. 
10th 3:50 p.m. One-way or roundtrip. Best reasonable offer over $75. 
Call Steve at 521-1354 soon!!
VOLUNTEER
Volunteers needed at Presbyterian 
University and at Montefiore Uni
versity Hospitals, Falk Clinic, Eye and 
Ear Institute Pavilion. Call 648-6105 
to help in the offices, labs, recre
ation, patient and family visiting 
programs, anesthesiology, recovery, 
emergency, and operating rooms.
If you act soon, next week 
the classifieds could be com
municating your message to 
7000 people. Send your ad 
with payment today.
Classified Policy
Submission Deadline
Deadline for submission of classifieds to The Tartan is 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication.
Classified Rates
1-20 words....................................$3.00 per week
21-50 words..................................$5.00 per week
50 or more words.......................$8.00 per week
Classifieds must be paid by cash or check before the first scheduled run date. 
On-campus departments and organizations may pay by journal transfer if an 
account number is available.
Index
ADOPTION 
COMPUTERS 
fOR SALE 
HOUSING 
JOBS
LOST & FOUND 
QN CAMPUS JOBS 
RESUM SERVICES 
SALES 
SERVICES
TICKETS
JHAVEL
VOLUNTEER
Misc.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 86. Issue 1 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 3 September 1991BACK TO SCHOOL
7nss Rush hanteu 
1S hr3Cns huumG
Orientation activities kick off year
The freshman experience:
By MATT THORPE 
& AMY POTTHAST
Tartan Junior Staffwriters ,
With reggae and river cruises, 
comedians and condoms, 
Carnegie Mellon Freshman Ori
entation provided an initiation 
to the college lifestyle.
Orientation began the morn
ing of Tuesday, August 20, one 
week before classes started. Af
ter a tiring day of registering, 
receiving room assignments, 
signingforms, and finding offices, 
the new students finally em
barked on their quest for new 
friends and their own niche in 
the new environment.
In their pursuit, freshmen re
ceived much-needed help from 
counselors in the form of small 
group discussions and a myriad 
of scheduled Orientation events, 
ranging from ice cream socials 
to a plaid-and-reggae fest with 
the local Tony Miles reggae 
band.
Students were also encour
aged to attend special interest 
lunches and workshops, and 
were treated to an afternoon 
mini-seminar on sexuality given 
by Dr. Keeling of the University 
of Viginia.
As a part of the afternoons 
series of presentations, fresh
men watched skits created by 
the orientation counselors and
dsunhu huu 7Nj69Sjv5 anbu l^
Behind the scenes:
By SUSAN ABRAMS
Tartan Calendar Editor 
& M. K. RODGERS
Tartan Forum Editor
Group sex!
Fight for the glory of Carnegie, 
fight for the glory of the clan!
Whats your name? Whats 
your major? Where are you 
from?
To the class of 1995, these 
words might inspire fleeting 
glimpses of their first week at 
Carnegie Mellon. But in the 
minds of the 52 upperclass stu
dents who passed out name tags, 
gave directions, and always 
smiled during Orientation 1991, 
these phrases evoke memories
of four long days of training and 
six even longer days of Orienta
tion. Being a counselor was de
manding, tiring, and at times ex
asperating. But during those ten 
days, counseling also meant ex
citement, companionship, and a 
great sense of accomplishment.
Head Counselor Maggie 
OToole, a senior literary and 
cultural studies major, said that 
this year was the best year she 
had with the counselors. During 
the dinner at Pizza Hut, the coun
selors celebrated her dedicated 
years of service to freshmen. All 
the counselors pitched in to get 
Maggie a bouquet of flowers and 
a singing telegram. Then, out of
dsunhu huu 1Iv6jlIN65 anbu l^
Daniel Frey/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Ed Leventhal, a junior electrical engineering major, gets an early start 
on this semesters workload.
F3eCgCeCuh 7nCt otCmbh heTiumeh nmi 3nkaTh rtbnmCqneCrmh erbuefut
By SHAZIA NAJMI
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The signs of fall rush are here. 
Music blares from the fraternity 
houses on Morewood and Forbes 
Avenues. The sorority fall rush 
sign-up is being conducted at a 
table on the steps of Doherty Hall. 
The Greek system once again of
fers CMU students the opportu
nity to explore new friendships 
and experiences.
CMU is a tough place to do 
much other than school work  
its sort of rough to find social 
activities. Fraternities offer a 
place to relax and an instant sup
port group of sixty friends, says 
Andy Edmonds, social chair for 
Phi Kappa Theta.
dsunhu huu N695 anbu l/
Pi Kappa Alpha sponsored a Saturday afternoon brunch as part of its Rush activities.
By LAURA PALANKER 
;& KEVIN COONEY
i Tartan Junior Staffwriters
If you went to the Mainland Luau last 
Thursday afternoon, you might have 
noticed sparring medieval characters, a 
group of kilted bagpipers, or an authen
tic trufula tree on the Cut. These strange 
sights were among dozens at Carnegie 
Mellons annual Activities Fair as stu
dent organizations attempted to recruit 
members. Student Activies organized, 
Student Senate funded, and senior ar
chitects Amy Blake and Chris Neighbor 
coordinated the event.
I think weve had more people than 
weve ever had before, said Bonnie 
Gorman, Assistant Director of Student 
Activits. Of all the student organiza
tions that we had registered, only one or 
two didnt show up and a larger repre
sentation of the whole student body par
ticipated as opposed to just freshmen.
Come party with the Party, said 
sophomore computer science major Ben 
Peal, chair of the KGB Freshman Pro
paganda Committee. In KGB (an acro
nym most members do not have the 
security clearance to know the meaning 
of), members practice safe silliness in 
everything from watching Monty Py
thon movies to Geek Eat, where mem
bers mortify unsuspecting waiters (and 
often patrons) at a classy restaurant.
Also in the spirit of fun is Pioneers, an 
organization which does everything from 
camping and hiking trips to Buggy and 
Booth.
Pioneers is a social, co-ed organiza
tion, and the only reason we exist is to 
have fun, said president Bill
josn ereeman/larian rnoio tauor
CMU alumnus Paul Reilly (left) and junior chemical engineering major, Tom Gillogly (right), battle it out in a mock combat demonstration. Gillogly is also the vice president 
of the CMU Society for Creative Anachronisms, a group dedicated to recreating the lifestyle of the middle ages.
Cheeseman, a senior mechanical engi
neering major.
If your tastes run toward more adven
turous pursuits, you can white-water 
raft, rock climb, and even skydive with 
the Explorers Club. Its basically a way 
for people to get out of Pittsburgh and 
blow off steam for a day, explained 
publicity manager Grant Mastick, a bi
ology graduate student.
With their own way to blow off steam, 
the Juggling Club entertained fair-goers 
with their juggling chicken act. A lot of
good jugglers went through the club, 
said senior math major Ben Schoenberg, 
referring to such people as graduates 
Rick Rubenstein and Jack Kalvin, who 
are now a professional juggling team, 
and Pat McGuire, who won the juniors 
division at the International Jugglers 
Festival last summer and appeared on 
CBS This Morning.
Several special interest groups also 
were represented at the fair. The 
Carnegie Mellon Riding Club is for 
people who are interested in motorcycles
and motorcycling. You dont even need 
a bike, said club president Tom Andy.
A group that doesnt believe in taking 
chances  with the environment, at 
least  is Earthwise, one of CMUs 
environmental awareness groups, which 
advocates recycling, conservation, and 
vegetarianism. Were concerned about 
the environment and its inhabitants, 
and its about time somebody took some 
action, said senior English major Kristin 
Pape.
Another organization which contributes to the community is the Carnegie 
Mellon chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, a 
national co-ed service fraternity. The 
fraternity hosts several annual events, 
such as their Casino Party and Regres
sion Party, and invites anyone to rush or 
just help out.
In addition to these, there were doz
ens of other campus organizations at 
the fair, and many that werent. You can 
find additional inform ation on them from 
the organizations themselves or in The 
Word.


---------------------------------------------------

WiW Pizza delivers.
So does Pizza
But, only the Original 
Shop offers the $2.99
Cheese Pizza (Offer not good for delivery)
Phone 621-0435 
Original Hot Dog Shop and Top of the O
Comer of Forbes Avenue and Bouquet Street in Oakland
The Original Hours : Sunday thru Thursday, 9 AM - 4:30 AM, 
Friday & Saturday, 9 AM - 6 AM 
The Top of the O Hours: Daily 11 AM - 2 AM
ATTENTION H&SS SENIORS, and OTHERS 
DOING H&SS DOUBLE MAJORS OR MINORS:
'
Imagine that someone offered you $13,000 and a year to study something that has interested you for a long time, that excites you a lot, and that would require travel abroad in one or more cultures different from your own. Would that interest you, and what would you do?
A Thomas J. Watson Fellowship can make this possible for you.
The Thomas J. Watson Fellowship program seeks to enable college graduates of unusual promise to engage in a year of independent study and travel 
abroad following graduation. Approximately 75 Watson Fellows are selected every year, and receive grants ranging from $13,000 to $18,000 for travel and 
study abroad during the year following their college graduation.
The College of Humanities and Social Sciences (H&SS) at Carnegie Mellon University is one of a select group of 55 liberal arts schools eligible to 
nominate students for Watson fellowships. Two of our 1990 nominees (Mark Mittelhauser [BS, Economics, 1991] and Chris Kasabach [BFA, Industrial 
Design, 1991]) were selected for a 1991-1992 Watson Fellowship (Mark to study unemployment in Eastern Europe, and Chris to study the interaction of 
high-tech Western products with third-world cultures [in Africa]).
Eligible students include H&SS seniors, and non-H&SS seniors with an H&SS double major or minor. Preliminary applications due: October 1, 1991. 
Candidate interviews: October 14-18, 1991. Completed nomination materials due (at the Watson Fellowship headquarters): November 4, 1991.
Additional information: Come to a special informational meeting on Wednesday, September 4,1991, at 4:30 pm, in Baker Hall 355. Information is also available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161. Contact person: Dr. Joseph E. Devine, Associate Dean of H&SS.
$Ed2SE
161 I
mcHES
&

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 1991L3
Class of 95 adjusts to college life with style
FRESHMEN, from page LI
witnessed a condom demonstra
tion on a wooden model of a 
penis. In closing, students were 
invited to help themselves at a 
table of complimentary condoms. 
The talks were educational, al
though students displayed 
mixed reactions.
I liked the talks, although I 
think they should have chosen a 
more realistic sized model for 
the condom demonstration, one 
inadequate feeling freshman
noted. It was the size of my 
forearm!
I was impressed with the can
dor of the talks, said Kevin 
Luczkow, a freshman architec
ture major. It signified the new 
freedom we have as college stu
dents.
In addition to the pre-arranged 
Orientation activities, students 
found other means of entertain
ment throughout the week. Fra
ternities invited all women and 
freshmen to their parties dur
ing pre-Rush week, and many 
new students found themselves 
spending their nights at the fra
ternity quadrangle. For many, 
the parties provided a muchneeded escape from the anxi
eties created by Orientation 
week.
I loved it! Ive never been so 
drunk in my whole life! said 
Chuck Elliott, a freshman ar
chitecture major. Its been a 
great multi-cultural experience!
Some students created their
own forms of entertainment. 
One of my fondest memories of 
freshman Orientation has to be 
the rice festivals of Lambda Chi 
Rho, freshman biology major 
Jenifer Wightman said about an 
all-freshman pseudo-fraternity 
she and some friends founded 
during the week.
Sunday night, August 25, stu
dents were encouraged to at
tend and participate in the allfreshman talent show. The show 
comprised a variety of acts, in
cluding a humorous ballad about 
a happy-go-lucky slug and some 
amateur stand-up comedy.
One of the musical groups, a 
thrasher band which calls itself 
Stihgnobod, performed the psy
chedelic version of their song 
Gloria, ten minutes into which 
the techs cut the lights.
I thought it was very 
swingin, Randy Funke, lead 
guitarist of the group, said. But 
I didnt like the fact that they 
turned the lights out on us.
One fundamental benefit of 
Orientation was the opportunity 
for freshmen to meet one an
other and to acquaint themselves 
with their new college home be
fore the throngs of upperclass
men filled the campus.
Summarizing the feelings of 
his peers, H&SS freshman Nick 
Tuli said, Orientation was so 
horrendously cool that I was, 
like, disoriented, and yet feelin 
the vibes and stayin in the 
groove, man. Totally wow!
Be a counselor: its more than a couple of T-shirts
I am Nadz; therefore I counsel. 
John Nadzam, senior chemistry major 
and third-time counselor
COUNSELORS, from page LI
relief that training was over and 
ready to take on the freshmen 
the next day, the counselors 
started to dance in the restau
rant.
Over the summer, the coun
selors wrote to the freshmen that 
were going to be in their groups. 
A lot of counselors were im
pressed by the number of fresh
men who attended the group 
meetings and quickly became 
friends with them all.
Orientation counselors work 
on a volunteer basis. There was 
no pay but each counselor got 
two shirts and meals for the du
ration of the program. Because 
of the early return to campus, 
many counselors gave up a week 
of summer earnings.
So why did they do it? 
Gretchen Densmore, a sopho
more industrial management 
major and first-time counselor, 
said she became a counselor be
cause I had a good time when I 
was a freshman. I thought I 
would like to give this years 
freshmen the same good start 
that I got from my orientation 
counselors. A majority of the 
counselors shared this opinion.
Another response came from 
: senior chemistry major and 
third-time counselor John
about Orientation has to have 
been getting to know the other 
counselors, because I really 
think we had a great group of 
people, she said. After seem
ingly endless days of training, 
the counselors really became, as 
Densmore said, a support 
group for one another  offer
ing advice, sharing experiences, 
and giving a hug when one was 
needed.
Many counselors had fears of 
failed freshman groups or dys
functional freshmen, but most 
of the fears were unfounded. The
only real difficulties, according 
to the counselors, stemmed from 
the programming aspect of Ori
entation.
Junior professional writing 
major Graham Gibby, a first
time counselor, thought that 
programs could have been more 
scheduled. Too much was pre
sented as optional. I think the 
format was too open, with too 
much space between events. 
Other counselors expressed a 
wish for more scheduled time 
with their freshmen. Erik 
Selberg, a junior math/CS ma
jor and second-time counselor, 
said that it felt like there was
no time for follow-up on the pro
grams with the freshmen. Two 
meetings were not enough. Last 
year, we had three chances to 
meet With the freshmen in our 
small groups. Id like to see that 
again. Other counselors agreed.
When asked if she plans on 
being a counselor for Orienta
tion 1992, Shannon Hayes, a 
junior chemistry major andfirsttime counselor, responded with 
a resounding Definitely, yes! 
And I cant wait. Nadzam, who 
is remaining at CMU for a fifth 
year, also plans on participating 
next year: I am the counseling 
dinosaur.... Its like playing a 
new audience every year, and I 
love it.
Susan Abrams and M. K. 
Rodgers were both Orientation 
Counselors for the second time 
this year.
CASIO.
The scientific way 
to go back to school
Nadzam: I am Nadz; therefore 
I counsel. On a more serious 
note, however, his reasons are 
more personal: I do it because it 
makes me feel good. I like being 
able to do something tangible 
for freshmen. Maybe, as a coun
selor, I can help them not make 
the same mistakes I did.
Junior music major and sec
ond-time counselor Laura 
Arledge agreed. I returned to 
the program because it was such 
a rewarding experience last year. 
I wanted to do it again.
Orientation, though designed 
for the benefit of the incoming 
freshman class, definitely af
fected the lives of the counsel
ors. According to Jeff Lee, a se
nior managerial economics ma
jor and first-time counselor, the 
friendships formed were one of 
the most important results of 
Orientation: I made a lot of new 
friends, not just among the fresh
men, but with the other counsel
ors. I got to meet people I might 
otherwise never have known ex
isted.
Sophomore drama design ma
jor Kathy Spencer was just as 
enthusiastic. The best thing
The ladder toSuccess
When it 
comes to 
your
academic 
success, 
let us take
you
straight to 
the top.
Acceptance 
to the 
Graduate 
School of 
your 
dreams!
Grad
School
admissions
counseling
GMAT/GRE 
/LSAT Prep
Classes Begin Soon 
Call for a free Diagnostic 
683-0300.Hi.
EDUCATIOHAI G S 0 U
64.00
Casio 7000G graphic scientific 
calculator with 195 functions, 422 program steps, graphic functions and 16-character, 8-line display.
FX7000G
THE QUALITY YOU NEED, THE PRICE YOU WANT.
13.00
Casio scientific solar-powered
calculator features 199 functions, 10-digit display, one Independent memory/
6 constant memories.
FX991
9.00
Casio 8-digit scientific calculatorfeatures 78 functions, constant memory, automatic shutoff, convenient user memory and fractional capability. FX250
I

---------------------------------------------------

Career Center Fall Edition
Warner Hall 19  268-2064  Fall 1991
The following Workshops and Events will be run by the Career Center this Fall:
TOPICDATELOCATIONTIME
Resume WritingThurs..Sept. 12Skibo 124:30-5:30
Weds., Oct. 2Skibo 124:30-5:30
Tues..Oct. 29Skibo 124:30-5:30
Weds., Nov. 20Skibo 124:30-5:30
Career Library ExpressMon., Sept. 16Skibo Grey Matter10:00-3:00
Summer EmploymentMon., Sept. 16Skibo 129:30-11:30
Tues.. Oct. 1Skibo 1211:30-1:30
Fri.,Oct. 18Skibo 1210:30-12:30
Thurs., Dec. 5Skibo 124:00-6:00
InterviewingThurs..Sept. 19Skibo 124:30-5:30
Weds.. Oct. 9Skibo 124:30-5:30
Tues.. Oct. 15Skibo 124:30-5:30
Tues.. Nov. 19Skibo 124:30-5:30
Grad School FairTues., Sept. 24Skibo Ballroom10:00-3:00
Clarifying SeniorThurs.. Sept. 26Skibo 124:30-5:30
Career Goals
Clarifying Career GoalsWeds., Oct. 16Skibo 124:30-5:30
Cover Letters & MoreWeds., Oct. 30Skibo 124:30 - 5:30
Exploring FreshmenTues.. Nov. 5Skibo 124:30-5:30
Second Thoughts
What Next: CareerWeds., Nov. 6Skibo 124:30-5:30
Planning for Freshmen
Site Visits - Part 1Tues.. Nov. 12Skibo 124:30-5:30
Site Visits - Part IIWeds.. Nov. 13Skibo 124:30-5:30
v
Special Attractions-Career Center OrientationWednesday, Sept. 11,10:00 - 5:30, Warner Hall 19 
Come in and meetthe staff. Learn how bestto use the Career Center. Pick up registration materials and useful 
publications. Short presentations on campus interviewing, registering with the Career Center, and other 
services offered will be held throughout the day.
Resume ExpressThursday & Friday, Sept. 12 & 13,10:00 - 3:00, Skibo 112 Bring a draft of your resume. Counselors will be available to critique and help you polish your resume.
Walk-In HoursMonday - Friday, 3:30 - 4:30, Career Center Warner Hall 19 
If you havea quick question aboutaresume, cover letter, graduate school application, job or internship offer, 
or you name it, you'll want to stop by and ask us.
New This FallCareer Center BboardSee the latest listings of employers recruiting on campus, job vacancics, 
workshops, special programs, and other useful related information. Subscribe now to official.career-center 
at the nearest Andrew terminal.
Career Options for the Creative IndividualLists job and internship opportunities, helpful 
library resources, and other information of value to students in the arts.
Futur? OptiflOS
Watch for information on exciting programs coming to you in the Spring.** Career WeekA week-long exploration of many carecr fields and opportunities.
Slice of LifeA Conference on Life Skills presented to juniors and seniors by University 
alumni.
Job Fair '92- Brings to campus various types of employers who have summer and full time 
positions available.WestPACS Job FairA program for students in Western Pennsylvania colleges featuring 
employers with non-technical job opportunities.
Be sure to visit our Career Li brary. Open Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM. Itcontainsa wealth 
of information about occupations, career planning, job search strategies, internships, graduate study, 
fellowships, employers, and job vacancies in a variety of fields
BuyAppleCare 
now and save your worries
for finals week.
Sure, you can take your chances.
You might squeak by without ever needing
AppleCare* the Apple* extended service 
program.
But with he way your luck's been 
running...
When you have Apple&re, a 
computer fritz is no sweat. And theres 
no hassle getting back into action.
AppleCare covers your Apple 
computer and peripherals for a fixed 
monthly feeup to 36 months.
All your service costs are covered.
And so are an unlimited number of 
repairs.
You can save money because your 
up-front fee can amount to less than the 
cost of a typical repair over the life of the 
agreement.
It doesn't matter if your computer is 
out of warranty. You can start Apple&re at 
any time. And the cost of the agreement 
doesn't go up as your computer gets older.
For a better picture of the savings, 
here's a comparison of typical repairs costs 
with and without Appleflare.
h*Single Repair Without Appk/n*1"
Repair
W'Appltfim'1-'1
Apple lit$210$60
WApple 35" Drive Apple Monochrome$11
Monitor lit. lie$151Apple S.2V Drive$211$.)InupWrittT 11$182$60
Apple Modem$20S
II Estimated actual retaiI price, including farts ar.il labor
21 Suggested retail rice for 12 moitibs' cvimify. AppteCarr is triced aiulsold Inthe month
The sooner you 
start Apptor^, the 
smarter youll be.
Hurry. Offer valid between 
8/15/91 and 
11/15/91
Each passing day increases 
the possibility of a computer casualty.
So play it smart. Sign up for 
AppleGare now.
You can afford an ounce of 
prevention. But paying for a pound of cure 
could leave you flat as a hold-everything 
pizza.
I----------------------------------------1
Purchase 24 months 
of Apple Care. Get the 
next 12 months free.
Now Apple Gjrc,sthe extended scrvfcc plan for your Apple 
computer and peripherals, an cost even less.
Just bringthis coupon to ourstore.Purchase(24)monthsof 
ApplcGw, and receive an additional (12) months absolutely free!
Free Inspection 
with this coupon
Amp Computer RepairUCC Bldg., Room A-64 
in 4910 Forbes AvenuePittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
268-2661
Faasu1Chtu
 /WS Affile Computer. Inc. Apple, the Apple logo and Macintosh are registered trademarks 
f Apple Computer. Inc. AppleCare is a registered senice mari of Apple Computer. Inc.
buy a 12-inch cheese pizza 
for only $3.50
call 
6 8 7-9106
just say Cheap Shot
Offer Expires Really Soon

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 1991L5
Is the world ready for the age of Geek Steroids?
While leafing through the August 28 
USA Today, I was taken aback by an actual 
block of text among the collage of pictures, 
so I read it. "Scientists have recreated in a 
test tube, the chemical process of learning 
and remembering ... when the short-term 
memory cells of rats were exposed to a brain 
chemical called serotin, they changed into 
long-term memory cells.
Is it just me or are more and more 
people becoming scientists for cheap 
thrills? Id like to know how these 
touched scientists knew exactly when 
the rats memory capacity increased? 
Did one of the grayer experimental rats 
cross his legs and with a twinkle in his 
eye, begin to ramble nostalgically in rat 
dialect about the wild nights of his 
youth on the landfill, while the younger 
experimental rats listened until cobWHATEVER HAPPENED TO PLATINUM BLONDES?
by Andrew Cosentino
webs filled their heads? And, if so, when 
are these freak rats scheduled to ap
pear on Geraldo?
Ive got no gripe against science, but 
before these guys start testing this 
serotin stuff on humans, which is the 
next step, they should stop and con
sider the negative effects widespread
use of such a drug would bring to the 
world as we know it, to our very cam
pus, and to shows like Jeopardy.
There are certain incidents which 
have been forgotten, and only for the 
best. For example, when I was five, 
Billy Tice watched from his bedroom 
window as I put doggy doo in his mail
box and ran. Billy moved away and Im 
sure all has been forgotten, but think 
for a moment if a guy like Billy Tice got 
a hold of some serotin and has grown 
big on revenge. Who knows what Billy 
Tice has made of himself and how 
much doggy doo he could potentially 
acquire and have delivered at the snap 
of a finger?
So do we really want our long-term 
memories to increase, evoking not only 
happy recollections of weddings and
picnics, but recollections of ingrown 
toenails and wart removals as well? Im 
not so sure.
What I am sure about is that a place 
like Carnegie Mellon would be in utter 
chaos if the memory-stimulating drug 
serotin ever reached the black market. 
On the mornings of final exams, the 
test tubes used to produce this ana
bolic geek steroid would be littered like 
crack vials all over the Cut, crunching 
under the feet of juiced-up students 
who suddenly have bones to pick with 
pediatricians who slapped them with a 
little too much zeal upon pulling them 
from the womb.
And what about the gain of brain 
bulkiness which might result from the 
use of the anabolic geek steroid, increasingforeheads to three or four times
the size of Guy Smileys? Just a hand
ful of swelled craniums could cram a 
cluster like UCC, attracting flocks of 
head lice the size of baby deer to the 
area. If those notorious strength-en
hancing steroids make athletes overly 
aggressive and edgy for physical re
lease, this anabolic geek steroid has 
the potential to turn Skibos Grey Mat
ter into a vicious arena where cut
throat games of Dungeons and Drag
ons are played with lust throughout 
the night, the action only stopping pe
riodically due to involuntary outbursts 
like THESE ARE MY SPELLS, I 
GUARD THEM WITH MY LIFE!
Tartan staffwriter Andrew Cosentino 
is a junior majoring in professional 
writing.
'Dry Rush offers chance 
for second assessment
RUSH, from page LI
Sororities provide a place for 
female friendships, support, and 
philanthropy. The main reason 
we are here is to provide a place 
where people can come together 
to help each other, says PanHel 
Chair, Luisa Pessoa-Brandao, a 
senior math major.
You learn to deal with people 
who are different from you, 
which is something you do the 
rest of your life, says Kay C. 
Dee, a senior chemical engineer
ing major from Kappa Kappa 
Gamma.
Greek life also enables stu
dents to become more closely 
involved with CMUs annual 
Carnival events, Buggy races, 
and the annual Greek Sing.
But not everyone enjoys rush. 
It didnt seem like there was
any clear indication on how to go 
about rushing, said John Funge, 
a junior electrical engineering 
major who rushed last fall, The 
parties didnt feel natural; they 
felt somewhat forced. Rush was 
confusing because it was done so 
early in the year.
When students arrived on 
campus, most fraternities began 
their parties. The fraternities 
invite both Carnegie Mellon 
males and females to stop by the 
houses, join the party, and be 
introduced to the brothers of 
each house.
In wet rush, its difficult to 
meet people because everyones 
so busy partying, said Chin Oh, 
a sophomore majoring in indus
trial management. But in dry 
rush you get a better chance to 
meet people.
Official rush, a series of non
alcoholic get-togethers held by 
fraternities which begins Sep
tember 8, allows men to stop by 
the fraternity houses and get to 
know the members therewith
out the loud music and crowds.
Dry rush is really important 
because you cant get to know 
people in a drinking and party
ing atmosphere as well as you 
can when you meet the frater
nity brothers in smaller groups, 
said Roy Sandberg, Phi Kappa 
Theta pledge and electrical en
gineering sophomore.
Sorority Rush Counselor 
Laura Adams, a junior creative 
and professional writing major, 
said, Give every house a chance 
and dont listen to rumors about 
houses that you may have heard 
about before.
Attention! Attention! Attention!
3 NEW COURSES IN MODERN LANGUAGES FOR FALL 1991
Freshman Seminar in Modern Language 
The Good and Bad Language Learner
82-180 (9 units)
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 11-12:20 
Visiting Professor Larry Selinker
OR
A More Advanced Discussion on Foreign Language Learning 
The Good and Bad Language Learner
82-480 (9 units) 
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 3^4:20 
Visiting Professor Larry Selinker
Have you ever wondered what you could do to leam a modern language better? 
Have you wondered why some types of language learning excercises seem harder 
for you than others? Have you been puzzled by the fact that at times you keep 
getting stuck in your attempts at language learning? If you are learning (or have 
learned) more than one modern language, have you ever thought about how they 
might influence each other? In essense, have you ever thought analytically of 
yourself as a language learner, as a consumer of language teaching input? If you 
have ever asked yourself any of these questions, you should enroll in:
Special Topics in Modern Languages: Theory and Practice of Translation
82-582 (9 units) 
MW, 9:30-10:50am 
Professor Paul Hopper
The course will have two aspects, a theoretical and an applied one. In the 
theoretical aspect participants will read and discuss works in the history 
and theory of translation. In the applied aspect, participants will create 
translations from or into English and then discuss their works in a series 
of workshops. For the specific needs of language majors, the seminar 
can be taken as an alternative to one of the upper level requirements.
You may register for these courses in the Modem Languages Program, 
Baker Hall 160.
STUDENT DISCOUNTV
The Philip Pclisi6 salons offer great savings 
to students. Get the internationally acclaimed 
Volumetric haircut and related services for just
FU  D?8U"/<-
W i (Men and Women) ^
Every haircut appointment includes consultation, 
shampooing, conditioning, blow dry and styling, 
Present your student ID to receive your discount. Not 
valid with any other offer and does not include a 
haircut by Philip Pelusl or Salon Style Director. One 
Oxford Centre Salon offer valid Monday thru 
Saturday 2:00 to 4:00 and 7:00 to 9:00 P.M.
Squirrel Hill 521-1200 Village Square Mall 833-6770 ^One Oxford Centre 261-6550  Westmoreland Mall 836-6670 ?
Century III Mall 655-1940 #2) Ross Park Mall 366-1555
Monroeville Mall 372-7520 
Iautt jgumCmbh nmi 6TminMhU (vre raum 6TminM IWcrti 6nsrm rmsM)U FaarCmekumeh mre nspnMh mu3uhhntMU Bollnson Toin Centra 7 8 8-0 2 0 4
Walk in Tutoring Service is Available 
Sunday Through Wednesday, 8-llpm
Upperclass students are available to help you with the subjects listed below. Help is given for entry-level coursework. Tutoring is available to all undergraduates; there is no charge.
Sunday
Monday
Chemistry Wean Hall 5205
Calculus Wean Hall 5403
Calculus Wean Hall 5403
Physics Wean Hall 5427
I\iesday Physics Wean Hall 5427
Wednesday Calculus Wean Hall 5403
More sessions will be added to the program. A detailed schedule will be available within the next few weeks. For more information, please contact Anne Witchner, Assistant Dean of Student Affairs, Skibo 103, x8704.
Sponsored by Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

Sume mrt eut 
Shfr E9jSj6 I7
THIS CAR-TOOIO ?
GMAA TAM/R nj ERAA 
OFEEfJP N\E ?WHAT IS
( tfOT TO HGfOTlOO 1
AUEfJATloO, 
(St-F-loatWiO'G, T 
,> A0P THE: cKtA/o^Giass-oS'; Ir
OF oofc. |Wp#0C7if)6 km t POOM. D-----f
Uffc I^HEUl/ IS A 
COT UlTTUe COKIC 
STfciP Fouu OF FUO, '
LSLPEre
'AfOtf Ffttv/OUT^. yOUf?
HEARf LOV, SEX; L 
WOf?K, 176ATH, 
ALix eLAwthuo.'ioA*J*A 
Pl-A* fC LEAP S pfi06?
B110W5 luG'TiMAre som.THOSE TWO UlTTie FUM 6Wf.HIS esTRA0&i7 GifctFfctEdO.lriToC>UC.lMG>
IHES
AKBA2.N)AN\ES1'tA BOOG0.SHEBA
HfcE.lOE'fcE. Afc8Afc 
lAWP JFT. r-'WOOU7 jOt> ' 
MlfOi? OOT ^ 
STAfcifOG *- 
AT MM GABS?
l-Lfs
PfcEH&USTfeOAU
J AT the 
K0M.EOT.)
GpFu t?Oif Fl ?pHt ISRC--Ff 
P l STINGO I SMlrik FEATURES:
ani eliaFry/F FTlrt eutfey
6^65, COtoSTA.JT TU3 ITCHING. 
PhioSifMgu sogoPcSiTTEJi, DEPR.ECSEP, JOfcMAU.
thvs ne eil lNwn cAfif. 
DISTINGUISH 1 >6 FEATUfifS: 
TAKE. A 60ESS. 
E*c>tioOAl State: 
SQoeucneo.
UJHO: fcA&aiT Of0-THE-60. 
plSriMGoiSHiHG FEATURES 
SasicalL', SiMfc^ AnA DCAG.
THEBSECAL UYABRI
Gg/OERALL^ MIPP6P, 
OCCAS lOfJAUu^ mbrPcfNryL
hCUc sAiadFArt oft Loi/efisy
pr opu. 
Distinguishing FE ATOfcES: 
fez-zes, 6oth e^es 00 SA^e
SlP6 OP MEAQ.
nj-CM-USA STATE: i^Scpvn-ABLE.
4ll E9 19FNF1EjN6 4fs .l47j v sacck jRjN F194jRj 9ceddCvJj66?
WHAT ft SlLLy QOSTIO^'. BlNlM AMp-mt 6A1& tlU &e AS HAPP*) AS ^00 A6
1rkC3h
We at The Tartan are proud to introduce 
"Life in Hell" by Matt Groening to our 
Nationally Syndicated Cartoon Family.
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
UFtiMH-EUU
HELL FOR BE6INNERS
ftBRltP ItiTROOOcTIOrO TO THIS CftETooO FOR KffiOPKfrE? At ft ReHtuiAu COu&E FOR THoSe 10HO HAUEffT g60 PA1i>)& AtTEtfTiofl
V/HEN Lfs"t Y/E LEFT VlooLvJoRlH 
OUR \ lERO j 11-fKOWM >S/ THEKN0WLkGTH at He IS-jMPeejift SHEEP... 
"V^/o o 1-wor
We r e. oaaac k
'ey Te-n \ Vior^on

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
So all your friends think you're the best 
thing since Da Vincis Mona, and you just 
needed that leeetle something to convince 
Maw and Paw you were worth all that
trouble.........Draw for The TARTAN! We
need talent like yours for comic strips, 
political cartoons, and other fun graphical 
tid-bits.
If you have any questions call John Lin at 
x2111.
SZr,
O'J S
rioonesburyS AV BY 'BTRUDEAU */
by
MKOD LKONP
GWOECarnegie iMeifon sfavorite abstract minimalist e?Qstentiatist cartoon
\C ONLY 10b
milF OTJr 
TmeWs
n im2meTC
Don't Woiry Kids!Coming Next Week...
loot) X U<e\y
ArhjWa'Y, T^'i>cc^tiC5wo\\ o cwe9 
Sci^S rnvXST
traviel "to 
Lood of IjesC
Poisoo)
5outS
LEgoL4MD
The ALL"NE.V\l",:o<J'Je-irTof'e-s ofA.S vJt LAST LfefT OUR UeSELV 
PMR-FREE AOVE^JTUIttftS, THty WEfie 
SEEKING the piccLE of fmoes.
* t* iW lUw uteCe. done(fecervriy.
(

---------------------------------------------------

The most reusable piece of plastic on campus.
\^KUX CaOtnnCarrl
83b .BOD ^80.111, Hifit.ttCKII 
/ti\w ; 00 7o J
The AT&T Calling Card will never go to waste. You can use it to make a call from almost anywhere to anywhere. Once you
have one, youll never need to apply for another. And its the least expensive way to call state-to-state on AT&T when you cant dial direct.
Whats more, if you get your Calling Card now, youll get a free hours worth of AT&T long distance calling? ? Of course, when you.use
your Calling Card youll always be connected to the reliable service youve come to expect from AT&T. ? And when you get your Calling
Card, youll become a member of AT&T Student Saver Plus, a program of products and services designed to save students time
and money. ? So, as you see, theres only one way to describe the AT&T Calling Card* * in todays college environment. Indispensable.
Get an AT&T Calling Card today, call 1800 654-0471, Ext. 4811.
"Good lor one hour ol direct-dialed, coast-to-coast, night and weekend calling, based on prices elleclive 2/16/91. Oiler limited to one S8.25 AT&T Long Distance Ceililicate per student. Oiler valid through June 30.1992. ln addition, campus residents may place direct-dialed calls using university and-ATST ACUS** Service.
1991 AT&T

---------------------------------------------------

The only plausible reason I 
can think of is that Bob Saget 
has some sort of supernatural 
power that forces people into 
thinking they like him. Certainly 
no rational, fully conscious per
son would sit throughFullHouse 
week after week. But an irratio
nal, brainwashed, semi-conscious person....
I know all this seems rather 
trivial next to, say, the fall of 
Communism or inner-city vio
lence. But it could be much more 
serious than it appears. Laugh 
at me if you like, but dont come 
crying to me when Bob Saget is 
elected President.
NEXT WEEK: The obligatory 
fall predictions.
Tartan senior staffwriter A. 
Franklin Wheeler is a senior pro
fessional writing major, and for 
him to hate a television show, it 
really has to be bad!
What the stars mean
Masterpiece 
Excellent 
??? Good 
** Fair 
* Poor
Sumerthh fsae contains exactly one good song
By MIKE SHAPIRO
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The first warning sign is the 
cover. No abstract floozy from a 
previous Cars album, no digni
fied facial shot from This Side of 
Paradise. Instead, we have a 
low-resolution graphic that looks 
like, well, someone did it with 
MacPaint five minutes before 
shipping.
For an artist with such a long
standing history of tasteful 
technoglitz as Ric Ocasek, this 
is outrageous. After listening to 
Fireball Zone, it becomes quite 
apparent that something or 
someone sucked the ex-Car 
members plentiful talent sup
ply dry like a giant Slurpee, and 
then let him into the recording 
studio. The result is a feeble 
half-hearted effort somewhere 
between Thomas Dolbys Aliens 
Ate My Buick and the sound of a 
cat in estrus.
Fireball Zone, Ocaseks hopefully-last-if-this-keeps-up solo 
album, contains exactly one good
 Record Review 
? FIREBALL ZONE. By Ric Ocasek, 
Reprise Records.
song and ten tracks of nothing 
in particular. So unremarkable 
is this album that you can listen 
to it straight through and then 
wonder what youve been doing 
for the last hour. For the tal
ented songwriter Ocasek was, 
stagnant blandness is far worse 
than a dissonant, flaming auto 
wreck of a career end. If he had 
cranked out something nightmarishly awful, it might have at 
least had humor value.
The fact that were in for some
thing wholly uninspiring be
comes painfully clear as early as 
the second track (Touch Down 
Easy), which sounds like a few 
of the less prominent Cars tunes 
tossed together in a cauldron of 
stale syrup. Giving Ocasek the 
benefit of the doubt, we refrain 
from disparaging remarks for 
another four minutes, until we
are faced with track three 
(Come Back) which is as brain
lessly zippy as a chewing gum 
jingle, but without the merciful 
thirty-second lifespan.
Ocasek has apparently tossed 
coherence to the wind and 
hopped on the trendy diversity 
bandwagon. Listeners who make 
it all the way to the fourth track 
(and I suspect Im excluding 
anyone who isnt trapped under 
fallen furniture) will come face 
to face with the paradigm of sac
rilege  a stringy trumpet line 
in the background. Those
unappreciative of the ramifica
tions of this event should be ad
vised that a few years ago youd 
be more likely to hear Public 
Enemy covering Lynyrd Skynyrd than to find Ric Ocasek 
anywhere within five miles of 
an acoustic instrument.
This is unfortunate, as it 
brings us fans to the awkward 
position of informing him that it 
wasnt exactly his singing voice 
that compelled us to buy his al
bums. All thats left of Ocaseks 
songwriting style, his deft com
bination of quirk and traditional 
rock themes, is a few disembod
ied fragments. That and his 
trademark, which is to say, in
comprehensibility.
Worse still, Rics fellow exbandmates are nowhere to be 
seen, unlike his previous solo 
binges. Elliot Eastons crooning 
guitar solos are sorely missed, 
as is the presence of Greg 
Hawkes clever and ever-soslightly-geeky use of atmo
spheric synths. Who does Ocasek 
put in their place? Larry Mitchell
After listening to 7Ctuonss Zrmu5 it 
becomes quite apparent that some
thing or someone sucked the ex-Car 
members plentiful talent supply dry 
like a giant Slurpee, and then let him 
into the recording studio.
and Richard Hilton. Ever hear 
of these clods? I havent.
The new, improved Ocasek 
offers a little of everything, save 
that to which you might actually 
wish to listen. We have neo-60s 
populist drippiness (All We 
Need Is Love), sinister ambigu
ity (Flowers of Evil), quasi
acoustic tribute to broken hero 
(They Tried), inspiration amid 
decaying hope (Keep That 
Dream), as well as several speci
mens from a longstanding tradi
tion in contemporary music, 
unadulterated crap (Balance, 
Fireball Zone, and nearly ev
erything else).
To be fair, there is one good 
song. Ocasek was courteous 
enough to put Rockaway right 
at the beginning, to save you the 
trouble of clicking the cue but
ton on your CD player for three 
minutes before you press eject. 
What can I say? Its upbeat, its 
energetic, its catchy, and its 
not worth the cost of the album.
Flip on the radio  Rock
away is probably playing right 
now. Enjoy it, get sick of it, and 
forget about it. Thats about all 
the limelight Fireball Zone de
serves.
The Sum of All Fears Ch naesM eCesui
By ALLAN BOURDIUS
Tartan Staffwriter
Since his debut in 1984, Tom Clancy 
has been hailed as the master of the 
techno-thriller (actually, it is prob
ably fairer to call him the father of this 
genre). Like all of his previous books, 
his newest work, The Sum of All Fears, 
is full of great action and hair-raising 
suspense. However, what makes The 
Sum of All Fears the best of Clancys six 
novels is the fact that he has added a 
new dimension to his writing  this 
book is truly frightening.
The Sum of All Fears is the fifth book 
to feature CIA analyst Jack Ryan (the 
only Clancy book not to feature Ryan is 
Red Storm Rising). Also returning from 
previous books are Dan Murray (now 
the Deputy Director of the FBI), Jacks 
wife and two kids, CIA special opera
tions agents John Clark and Domingo 
Ding Chavez, Soviet President Audrey 
Namorov, Captain Bart Mancuso, and 
Dr. Ron Jonesy Jones. The Sum of All 
Fears draws heavily on the previous 
Jack Ryan stories so if you havent read 
the other four, Id put off reading it 
until you have (and the movie version 
of The Hunt for Red October is by no 
means an adequate substitute for read
ing the book).
The plot is relatively simple  dur
ing the Yom Kippur War of 1973, the 
Israeli Government was very close to 
using four 60 kiloton fission bombs 
against Syrian armored forces in the 
Golan Heights. However, the situation 
on the ground improved and the nuclear 
mission was cancelled, but one of the 
weapons was accidentally left on a
 Book Review 
THE SUM OF ALL FEARS. By
Tom Clancy.
plane.
Of course, this plane was shot down 
and the unarmed bomb landed more or 
less intact in a Druse farmers garden. 
The bomb made a crater about six feet 
deep and the farmer just filled the earth 
in over it. This weapon stayed hidden 
for nearly twenty years until frosts 
gradually drove it closer to the surface. 
Fast forward to the present day where 
the farmers son has one of his radical 
Palestinian friends remove the now 
exposed bomb from the garden.
Meanwhile, it looks as if Middle East 
peace may become a reality. Our hero, 
Jack Ryan (now the Deputy Director of 
Central Intelligence), comes up with 
the groundwork for a peace proposal 
thats so simple that it might even work 
in the real world. The United States, 
the Soviet Union, the Arabs, and even 
the reluctant Israelis all accept the 
proposal. This peace plan is great for 
the rest of the world, but horrifying to 
the radical Palestians. Under the agree
ment, they will have their own home
land, but Israel will still be in exist
ence. To the Palestians, everything they 
have fought and died for will have been 
for nothing. They feel like theyre being 
betrayed by their Arab brothers.
Things really start to get bad when 
the Palestinian radicals hook up with a 
bunch of ex-Baader-Meinhoff/Red Bri
gade terrorists who have strong links 
to former East German military offic
ers and nuclear scientists. They too feel 
as if theyve been betrayed by the So
viet Unions abandonment of world so
cialism. Peace is just unacceptable to 
both groups.
In their twisted minds, the only solu
tion is to precipitate a nuclear war 
between the superpowers. The terror
ists German physicist, Manfred 
Fromm, is able to improve the design of 
the original Israeli weapon into a twostage, thermonuclear weapon with a 
yield of about 450 kilotons, or around 
38 times the explosive power of the 
Hiroshima bomb.
As if there wasnt enough trouble 
going on in the world, the Presidents 
National Security Advisor, Elizabeth 
Elliot, is looking to get rid of Ryan, even 
4f she has to ruin his marriage to do it. 
She sees Ryan as a Cold Warrior, 
whose advice and thinking are dated 
and not to be relied upon. Unfortu
nately for Ryan, the President believes 
her. On top of that, shes the current 
squeeze of the widower President, and 
theyre far too close to each other for 
anyones good.
Now, as the gravest crisis the world 
has ever known approaches, the Presi
dent is taken over by paranoia. He 
wont take advice from Ryan or anyone 
else. DEFCON-1 has been declared  
bombers are at the ready, the missiles 
are ready to fly. Were at the brink of 
nuclear holocaust.
Can Jack Ryan, Dan Murray, John 
Clark, and Ding Chavez pull us back 
from this crisis?
Well, youll just have to find that out 
for yourself. I recommend you start 
Please see FEARS, page L10
Schh kscne threatens to remain on television forever
Every Friday night since 1987 
kids from all over the nation 
have been sprinting to their TV 
sets to watch Full House. How
ever, this fall, Bob Saget and 
company move to Tuesday night, 
where the crowds are sure to 
follow.
This bothers me, for one simple 
reason: Full House is one of the 
worst shows on television.
No ifs, ands, or buts about it.
Now dont get me wrong; Im 
not against bad shows. In some 
cases, the badness density actu
ally makes a program rather 
enjoyable. Mister Ed and Patty 
T)uke are fun viewing, The Brady 
Bunch is in a class by itself, and 
I even admit to taking in an 
episode of The Hogan Family on 
occasion. Plus, if a show is really 
bad, it will be canceled and re
placed with a better show. Usually.
But not Full House. It threat
ens to remain on the air forever. 
Its popularity grows while the 
show itself gets worse and worse. 
And in a few weeks well be able 
to see it five times a week, as 
frequent promos on Fox 53 trum
pet. As I see the multitudinous 
members of the Tanner family
THE LAUGH TRACK
by A. Franklin Wheeler
dancing around endlessly on my 
television screen, I wonder: why 
is such a HORRIBLE show so 
darn popular?
To answer this question, lets 
first try to find the root of the 
problem, the one or two elements 
that make Full House so bad. 
The premise seems straightfor
ward enough. Mom died, and 
Dad (Bob Saget) was stuck with 
three kids to raise all by himself. 
He was pretty bummed, so he 
invited two of his buddies (Dave 
Coulier and John Stamos) to live 
with him and provide fun-loving 
support to the three girls. Noth
ing terribly original, just a com
bination of old premises. Think 
of it as Three Men and My Three 
Daughters.
So far theres nothing alarm
ing here. Pretty standard sitcom
setup (if a bit strange for real 
life). Even with uninspired writ
ing and predictable situations, 
this could still turn out to be a 
fairly watchable program.
What about the actors? Dave 
Coulier is a bit annoying with 
his constant Im-still-a-kid-atheart whining, and John 
Stamos is, well, John Stamos. 
The two older daughters are 
standard sitcom stock: cute but 
smart, ready to zing witty oneliners on command. None of this 
is terribly enjoyable, but its not 
HORRIBLE.
No, the problem lies in the two 
remaining characters: Dad and 
youngest daughter Michelle. 
Lets tackle Bob Saget first. His 
role seems easy enough  play 
straight man to Coulier and the 
kids, and dont say too much. 
But this is not enough for Saget, 
who (as anyone who has ever 
witnessed the debacle of 
Americas Funniest Home Vid
eos knows) thinks he is blessed 
with a fantastic and naturally 
superior sense of humor. Bob, 
lets face facts: youre no Robin 
Williams. Mike Brady with a 
dirty mind, maybe. Fred 
MacMurray on speed, maybe.
Bob Saget by himself is enough to 
make a good show bad, but when 
combined with the Olsen sisters, he 
can make a bad show downright 
unwatchable.
But actually FUNNY? Never.
Michelle (played by charming 
twins Mary Kate and Ashley 
Olsen) was six months old when 
the program began, which would 
make her about four years old 
now. Unfortunately, she still 
cant speak. Even more unfortu
nately, the writers, as well as 
the entire cast and studio audi
ence, seem to think that she can 
speak which results in scenes 
like this one:
The three adult cast members 
are exchanging dialogue. Mich
elle enters, and everyone turns 
to her expectantly. Staring 
blankly into the camera, she 
smiles and says, Budda eema 
oop, dude! Laughter (or, on spe
cial occasions, a tremendous 
awww) arises from the studio 
audience, and the camera
quickly cuts to the huggable look 
of fatherly pride stapled to Bob 
Sagets face. Honestly, its 
enough to make me upchuck on 
the spot.
Bob Saget by himselfis enough 
to make a good show bad (again, 
witness Americas Funniest 
Home Videos), but when com
bined with the Olsen sisters, he 
can make a bad show downright 
unwatchable.
But my original question is 
still not answered: Why is Full 
House so darn popular? Im 
tempted to venture that view
ers standards have lowered so 
much that this schlock is not 
only acceptable, but desirable; 
that doesnt wash, since I have 
pretty low standards, and it took 
me four years to get up the gump
tion to sit through an episode.

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 1991
When a robotic lizard-soldier gets genetically mutated and combined with a career woman in high heels, 
things do not look good for the CEO.
and G.l. Joe. Its the old evil while wasting people with a
superlaser death-ray machinecorporation trying to build a topsecret killing machine plot, ex
cept this time the killing ma
chine is a Synthetic Genetic Or
ganism (Syngenorget it?) that 
can reproduce itself every 24 
hours by sucking all the spinal 
fluid out of the people whose 
heads its chewed off.
But, of course, you have the 
tough lady who wont rest until 
she finds out why her uncle got 
eaten by a cartoon action hero. 
You have the nosy reporter. Last 
but not least, you have David 
Gale, star of Re-Animator, the 
Vincent Price of the nineties, as 
a goofball maniac chief execu
tive who gives himself neck in
jections with a weird green fluid, 
murders his senior staff after 
dressing them up in lingerie, 
and wears bunny-rabbit ears
gun.
In other words, its the old 
Giant Yuppie-Eating Lizard 
story, but its one of the best 
ones Ive ever seen. And get this
 the Syngenors are designed 
for Middle Eastern fighting.
Now they tell us.
Two breasts. Twenty-one dead 
bodies. Ten dead Syngenors. 
Wicked green needle to the neck. 
Fireballs. Power drill to the 
brain. One motor vehicle chase, 
with crash and bum. Grenade 
explosions. Skull-crushing. 
Death Rattle gun that leaves 
nothing but a fine red mist. Elec
trocuted bimbo (and its the 
daughter of William Shatner!). 
Boil on the neck. Burning 
hairspray Fu. Drive-In Academy 
Award nominations for David
Gale, as the laughing maniac 
corporation president, for say
ing Hold me, please hold me 
and Somebody wants me to fry 
I can feel it and Its so lonely 
at the top; Starr Andreeff, who 
always gives a great perfor
mance, as the vengeful niece who 
says The pod! He wanted me to 
destroy the pod!; Riva Spier, as 
the evil career woman who ma
nipulates men into creating more 
Syngenors; and George Elanjian 
Jr., who directed his first movie 
almost entirely in the old Am
bassador Hotel in downtown El 
Lay. The guy has a career doing 
this.
Four stars.
Joe Bob says check it out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and 
only Drive-In critic movie from 
Grapevine, Texas.
Joe Bob defends Delta 
Burkes large persona
but he knew better.
And, of course, there was the 
incident that got written up in 
the National Enquirer where 
Delta allegedly told off her 
former best friend Dixie Carter. 
Supposedly she went raving 
around the set screaming Shes 
just as fat as me, shes just as fat 
as me. If it wasnt for three mil
lion bucks worth of lipo-suction, 
shed weigh 350.
You know what Delta really 
said?
Ill have a chocolate shake, 
fries, three cheeseburgers, and 
a Diet Pepsi.
You see how these things get 
blown out of proportion? It starts 
with a Diet Pepsi, it ends up as 
expensive lipo-suction.
And one other thing. Whats 
wrong with a little beef on the 
rack? If yoiive noticed, Delta 
has started roostering up her 
hair so high that it makes her 
look skinny. You dont wanna 
pick her up or anything, but 
when youve got four feet of perm 
snaking up into the ozone, any 
400-pound woman can look no 
larger than 370, 380.
In other words, shes doing 
what she can. Get off her case. 
The woman is a massive talent.
Speaking of creatures that 
devour everything in their path, 
Syngenor is a new flick about 
slimy Middle Eastern robot sol
diers that look like a cross be
tween the Creature from the 
Black Lagoon, the Swamp Thing,
I love Delta Burke. Im crazy 
about her, even if she does look 
like a bean-bag chair with the 
stuffing coming out. The woman 
has been persecuted, attacked, 
reviled, and roasted on a spit.
Its time somebody had some
thing good to say about Delta.
Okay okay okay, so she 
blimped up to approximately the 
size of the Miami airport. So 
what? Look at Orca Winfrey! It 
didnt hurt her career. She gives 
interviews to People Magazine 
about how shes fat, she likes 
being fat (except when shes on 
Ultra Slim-Fast), and shes 
gonna stay fat.
But what happens to Delta? 
She gives one little harmless in
terview to The Orlando Sentinel 
where she says something to the 
effect of, My producers hate me. 
They want me to do the next 
episode with an apple in my 
mouth. They suggested that we 
get some Ringling Brothers tents 
to make my wardrobe out of this 
season. They stand outside my 
trailer and make oinkingnoises.
And thats when the produc
ers started spreading lies about 
Delta.
First they said she was fat.
Never mind, lets go on to the 
second one.
Next they said she acted like a 
prima donna on the set. Like the 
episode where they had a birth
day party for Deltas character, 
Suzanne Sugarbaker, and Delta 
ate an eight-pound birthday cake
JOE BOB GOES TO 
THE DRIVE-IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
during the first day of rehears
als.
Havent these people ever 
heard of motivation? Dont they 
know what Stanislavsky said 
about birthday cakes on the set? 
How is the audience supposed to 
believe in the birthday cake if 
you dont eat the birthday cake? 
Its called acting.
Then there was the incident 
where Delta allegedly caused the 
death of a Puerto Rican camera 
assistant when she mistook him 
for a chair.
This was blown all out of pro
portion. Sure, we feel sympathy 
for the mans family, but the 
truth is, he didnt know how to 
work around large actresses. You 
have to let the performer know 
where you are at all times. For 
the past two years, crew mem
bers have been equipped with 
three-foot-long sticks. By touch
ing the actors lightly on the stom
ach, they will always walk in the 
direction you choose. He didnt 
take this precaution. He turned 
his back on the set. Its tragic,
1snm3MKh 
sneuhe Ch 
nshr fCh 
ouhe
FEARS, from page L9
reading The Sum of All Fears 
during a weekend because once 
you start, you wont be able to 
put it down. At times, seemingly 
unrelated events are inserted 
into the narrative, but every
thing is essential to the progres
sion and ultimate climaxof 
the story. Like I said, the novel 
is frightening.
You also might want to read it 
only during daylight because if 
youre anything like me, you 
wont feel much like sleeping 
when youre done with it. The 
story is about the worlds worst 
nightmare. It is possible, and 
wed better start realizing it.
Its not just another way for you to spend your money
Its a way to help you save it.
Now get the Card and get Student Privileges. Special savings created just for you. Only from American Express.
If you think the American Express Card is 
simply another way to buy things, we'd like 
to share some valuable news with you: Since 
youre a student, the Card can actually help 
you save.
Become a Student Cardmember today and 
you'll automatically get American Express 
Student Privileges' our newly expanded 
package of outstanding savings and special 
offers. All designed just for youwith more 
of what you need, for more value from the 
moneyyou spend.
Use your certificates to visit friends at other 
schools, see your family back home or enjoy 
yourself during a vacation. And the best pari: 
Each certificate could save you as much as 
$250 over regular Continental Airlinesfares 
on a coast-to-coast trip.
OUR NEWEST ADVANTAGE: UP TO 
30 MINUTES OF FREE MCI LONG-DISTANCE 
CALLING EVERY MONTH FORA YEAR
Talk about value. Now the Card can 
also help you save on your long
distance calls. In total, you 
could save more than $44 
when you enroll and use 
the American Express 
Card as a calling card.
And you dont even have to 
change your current long 
distance companyMCI
Continental
3 ROUNDTRIPS ON 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINESAT A PRICE THAT 
REALLY MAKES FLYING AFFORDABLE
Only Student Cardmembers can enjoy 
this great deal on Continental Airlines: 
three roundtrip flights for just $129 or $189 
eachdepending on where you're going.4 
What's more, these certificates are good any
where Continental Airlines flies in the 48 
contiguous states.
PLUS, SAVINGS ON CLOTHES, FOOD, 
MUSIC... AND MORE
Student Privileges Value Certificates give 
you the savings you need on the things 
you wanta sure way to make the most of
STUDENT 
PRIVILEGES
a college budget..This year alone, Student 
Cardmembers have saved at Pizzeria Uno, 
Eddie Bauer, MTV and ArtCarved class rings, 
among others.
You'll find your certificates in each issue of 
our exclusive student magazine, American 
Express Card CONNECTIONSwhere you'll 
also find valuable ideas and information 
about college life today
A GOOD INVESTMENT, A GREAT VALUE
For just $55 a year, the Card gives you all 
these savings, as well as all the traditional 
benefits of Cardmembershiplike 
the personal attention you can get 
24 hours a day from our Customer 
Service representatives.
And because you settle your account in 
full each month, you wont pay any finance 
chargeswhich can save you even more.
All of which goes to show that the 
American Express Card is an exceptional 
value. Because while there are many ways 
for you to spend your 
money there are few TRAVEL
that help you save it. RELATED
Apply today. SERVICES
An AmcrcanEpiess compart*
 To be eligible, you musi be approved by December 31,1991.
 A credit of up to $370 for calls will appear on each billing statement 
for 12 months after enrollment. $370 is equal to the charges fora 
domestic 30-minute night/weekend MCI Card Compatibility call 
and appropriate surcharges. You must enroll for this service by 
December 31,1991.
 1991 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc
Get the Card today Call 1-800-942-AMEX.
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
Document 
Matching
Be sure to report all your income to 1RS. It receives copies of statements from your employer, banks, and similar institutions to verify the income you report.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 1991in
TCI Cable U. An Entertainment Institution.
Comic
Welcome to the start of a fourth 
straight semester of comic re
lief! It is once again my pleasure 
to write about a form of litera
ture that has become increas
ingly popular in recent years. 
Not since the golden age of com
ics in the 1930s has the business 
been so prosperous, with back 
issue prices soaring, delighting 
collectors of all ages! In an in
dustry in which sales of400,000 
copies a month of one main
stream title was once consid
ered the maximum, last year 
Marvel Comics Spiderman #1 
sold over one million copies, this 
summers X-Force #2 more than 
three million copies and, accord
ing to an article in The Washing
ton Post, last months X-Men #2 
is expected to generate sales of 
seven million comics!
The allure of sleek, intricate 
artwork has no doubt been the 
fundamental driving force be
hind the exponential success of 
these titles. The comic book 
populace is making a disturbing 
statement by elevating these 
books to such a prominent level, 
that being that they prefer style 
over substance, sideburns over 
subplots. Its high-calorie, busy 
artwork that leaves little for in
terpretation  it lacks any im
pressionistic flavor, relying 
solely on a sudden, massive, 
high-tech impact. These books 
prosper on shallow plot lines, 
yet no one seems to mind be
cause they contain some of the 
slickest artwork in the comic 
book business.
It makes one wonder if comic 
books are destined for 
portfoliodom, or if there re
mains a glimmer of hope for good 
old fashioned story telling?
Writer/artist John Byrne is a 
force in the comic book industry 
whose work in recent months 
has sparkled. Though he first 
made his mark on the comic book 
world years ago as an artist, his 
writing skills have evolved and 
surpassed his linework. The se
cret behind his recent successes
COMIC RELIEF
by Waseem Hussain
on such titles as Namor the Sub - 
mariner and Iron Man is an 
emphasis on the fundamentals 
of comic book creation. What do 
comic books offer that no other 
entertainment media can? The 
opportunity to develop intricate 
subplots overlong periods of time 
is a unique quality that Byrne 
constantly exploits. It is a pow
erful tool that gives his work 
longevity, mystery, and 
unpredictability.
By drawing upon the rich his
tories of his characters, he gives 
the characters a sense of legiti
macy, of continuity. Because hes 
working with stories that de
velop over many months, his 
books acquire diverse support
ing casts which further enhance 
the epic feel of Byrnes stories. 
His artwork is clean, stylish, and 
uncluttered. In recent months 
he has experimented with duotone, a textured paper which 
creates interesting shade forms 
in the art. It is especially effec
tive in the underwater scenes of 
the book as the shadows from 
the waves on the ocean surface 
create a realistic tone differen
tial unprecedented in conven
tional four-color comic books.
Unlike film, comic books are 
limited only by the authors 
imagination, and are free from 
the economic considerations that 
cinema must endure. His char
acters travel to such exotic lo
cales as Atlantis, Beijing, or Ant
arctica on the simple budget of 
typewriter ribbons. The worldly, 
sophisticated flavor of his art 
and story are invaluable and 
further add to the sense of fan
tasy and awe that are so crucial
to comic books.
Now a little about the books 
themselves. Namor is the former 
ruler of Atlantis, a hybrid of 
human and Atlantaean with a 
wicked temper and a regality 
that distinguishes him from 
many other types of characters. 
He is truly an arrogant, confi
dent character who has been a 
presence in comic books for more 
than fifty years. In an effort to 
protect the earth and its oceans 
from mans polluting influence, 
Namor swims the seas and re
covers all the lost treasure he 
can get his hands on. Promptly, 
Namor cashes in his treasure 
and establishes a multibillion 
dollar corporation. Now he 
battles mankinds imperialism 
in the boardroom as well as the 
air and sea.
The supporting cast is terrific. 
Inspired by the quirky Profitt 
twins on CBS now classic 
Wiseguy, Phoebe and Desmond 
Marrs are Namors arch busi
ness rivals in a chess game where 
power is the ultimate prize. 
Namorita is the loose equiva
lent of Robin for Namor, and her 
once bland character has actu
ally grown quite interesting as 
the mysteries of her origin begin 
to unravel issue by issue. This is 
a book which redefines the ageold comic book adage, to be con
tinued!
John Byrnes role onlronMan 
is solely of writer, as the art 
chores are adeptly held by the 
reliable, blue chip Paul Ryan. 
As with Namor, this book is 
again good old-fashioned enter
tainment in the grand classic 
comic book style. Tony Stark is 
the brilliant inventor and man 
inside the Iron Man armor. Un
like Namor, Iron Man is a book 
strongly centered around its 
main character Tony Stark. The 
major plot line that has been 
developing over the past few 
months involves Tonys long, 
arduous struggle to overcome 
the debilitating paralysis that 
Please see COMICS, page LI2
BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE 
TO ANY COMPANY, ASK FOR 
SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE.
You put more than just your savings 
into a retirement company. You put 
in your trust and hopes For the future, 
too. So before you choose one, ask some 
questions. How stable is the company? 
How solid are its investments? How sound 
is its overall financial health?
A good place to start looking for answers 
is in the rat ings of independent analysts. 
Three companies, all widely recognized 
resources for finding out how strong a 
financial services company really is, gave 
TIAA their top grade.
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER-PERFECT.
TIAA received A+ from A.M. Best Co., 
AAA from Standard & Poor's and Aaa 
from Moody's Investors Service. These 
ratings reflect TIAA's reliable claims-paying 
ability, exceptional financial strength, 
superior investment performance, and low 
expenses. With its guaranteed rate of return 
and opportunity for dividends, TIAA is 
one of less than ten companies, out of
2,200 nationwide, that received these
highest marks.
CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW.
For further growth potential and diversi
fication, there's the CREF variable annuity 
with four different investment accounts to 
give you the flexibility you want as you 
save for the future.
Together, TIAA and CREF form the 
nations largest private retirement system, 
with over $95 billion in assets and more 
than 70 years of experience serving the 
education community. For over one million 
people nationwide, the only letters to 
remember are TIAA-CREF.
SEND NOW FORA FREE RETIREMENT INVESTMENT KIT,including a Speculi Report on TIAA investments.Mail this coupon to: TIAA-CREF, Dept. QC, J 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017. Or call
1 800-842-2733, Ext. 8016.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.
' Name ( Please print )
1
1 CityState Zip C.ile
1 hutitutim (Full name)
1
1 TitleDaytime Phone ( )
1
i TIAA-CREF Participantl/yej. Social Security #
1 O Yes H No-
1CN
lue h 1nosu U crt rmsM D10U00U
An Institution of Higher Entertainment.
College can't be all work and no play. And after you've learned everything possible 
about calculus or philosophy, there comes a time when you have to take a break and 
relax a little.
So if you live off-campus, you'll want to take advantage of this special back-toschool offer from TCI and get cable installed for only $io.oo.
You'll see the latest movies, music, concerts, sports and more... nonstop, 24 hours a 
day. Call today to enroll at Cable U. and get $10.00 Cable Installation.
928-8831
TCI -Were Taking Television Into Tomorrow.
Uh-oh. Looks like Iron Man is down for the count.
1991 Marvel Entertainment Group, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

L12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 1991
Joe Bob casts his own Christopher Columbus flick
Everybody in Hollywood is 
going ape, trying to get a Chris
topher Columbus flick made by 
1992, the 500th anniversary of 
you-know-what. Ridley Blade 
Runner Scott is gonna direct one 
starring Gerard Depardieu, the 
French actor with a face like a 
possum with gangrene in his 
nose. And theres another Co
lumbus movie written by Mario 
Godfather Puzo that will be pro
duced by Alexander and Ilya 
Salkind, the producers of Super
man.
So were talking about some 
serious dinero here.
Ive got a few casting sugges
tions. First off, if youre gonna 
use a European guy, use Klaus 
Kinski, who always looks even 
stinkier than Gerard Depardieu 
and has the added advantage of 
being crazy. Columbus was a 
fruitcake. He was kinda like the 
guy in high school that scores 
the most important touchdown 
in the most important game of 
the year, and then he does noth
ing else the rest of his life, but he 
thinks hes the King of Nairobi 
just because of that one thing.
How bout Jack Nicholson? 
Theres your Columbus. Cant 
you see him standing in the bow 
of his ship, saying I got your 
Nia and your Pinta right here, 
scumbag?
Bruce Dern as the commander 
of the Nia.
Dennis Hopper as the com
mander of the Pinta.
And how do they get the money 
to sail? Joan Collins as Queen 
Isabella. Christopher promises 
her that he wants to spend the 
rest of his life with her, sneak
ing around behind Ferdinands 
back, and that he really has milJOE BOB GOES TO 
THE DRIVE-IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
lions as soon as he can get back 
to Genoa and pick it up, and so 
this is just a loan ... and shes 
buying it. Shes going for it. Shes 
eyeing Christophers seagoing 
pantaloons, and she likes what 
she finds.
Jerry Hubbard as King 
Ferdinand.
Who else? Charles Duming as 
the friar and astronomer who 
convinces Isabella she should 
give Columbus the money, be
cause Virgo with Sagittarius  
its so naughty.
How about the guy in the 
crows nest of the Pinta who 
sights land for the first time, 
then gets cheated out of the re
ward because Columbus wants 
all the credit?
Jerry Mathers! No, hed break 
the crows nest. Michael J. Fox! 
No, hed demand the money any
way. Regis Philbin! Thats it! 
Regis Philbin in the crows nest.
What about the first Indian 
they meet when they get to 
America?
Linda Hunt. Who else?
What about the Indian who 
teaches the sailors how to com
municate in sign language?
What could I be thinking? Its 
gotta be Marlee Matlin.
Beautiful dancing Indian
maidens will be played by the 
Solid Gold dancers.
The first slave, seized by Co
lumbus about a week after he 
gets to America, is, of course, 
Lou Gossett, Jr.
Then theres the old lawyer 
that Ferdinand and Isabella 
send over to the New World af
ter its obvious that Columbus is 
screwing up everything in sight, 
and his men are dying, and his 
cities are revolting, and he keeps 
losing his ships, and they need 
to fm&somebody to go over there 
and straighten it out. So this old 
guy gets a ship, gets appointed 
governor, shows up over there 
and says, Okay, listen up, you 
turkeys, heres how its gonna 
be.
Who else? Wilford Brimley.
I should direct this movie. I 
really should.
Speaking of what the dingbat 
lookout said to Columbus right 
before he walked the plank, 
Theres Nothing Out There is a 
new comedy horror flick made 
by 20-year-old boy genius Rolfe 
Kanefsky of New York City, and 
its about what would happen if the teenagers went to the famil
iar cabin in the woods, heard the 
familiar weird noises, saw the 
familiar warning signs of 
trouble ahead, aardvarked 
around in the way that normally 
gets you killed  but they knew 
what they were doing because 
theyd seen every other horror 
film where this stuff happens. 
Craig Peck, the main teenager 
about to be eaten, keeps saying 
stuff like Name a horror movie
 any horror movie when he 
sees the house, and Oh great, it 
controls minds, it eats people, it 
reproduces! when he sees the
monster, and Nice bikini !  when 
he sees the monsters next ham 
sandwich.
The idea is, Well, we know 
what happened in Friday the 
13th Part III. It just happened 
here. So lets take measures to 
avoid the inevitable.
This part reminds me of In
vasion of the Body Snatchers, 
Mike tells the nave Stacy.
How did they kill them? she 
asks.
They didnt.
But, even though its played 
for laughs, its got a fairly decent 
slime monster, some kind of 
outer-space green-eyed octopus 
wearing its intestines on the 
outside of its body that can laser 
you in the eyes and take over 
your mind and rape women in 
bikinis and reproduce itself.
And, by the way, Rolfe 
Kanefsky, the kid who made this 
flick, is the only director Ive 
ever heard of who claims to be 
inspired by the 36 films of 
Abbott and Costello.
Eighteen breasts. Six dead 
bodies. Two motor vehicle 
crashes. Onefistfieht. One outerspace mutant swamp attack. 
Leg-eating. Face-eating. 
Plumber-eating. Mutant slime 
creature that runs into a garden 
rake. Skinpeeling. Butcher-knife 
attack. Head rolls. Tentacle rolls. 
Gratuitous dopesmoking punkers. Gratuitous Indian sweat 
lodge (where Indian men in New 
Jersey go to increase sexual po
tency). Tentacle Fu. Green goo 
Fu. Shaving cream Fu. Drive-In 
Academy Award nominations for 
John Carhart III, as the kid 
whose parents own the house in 
the woods, for saying Really, 
Mike, its logically stupid for you
1rkC3 hnsuh hrnt pfCsu ptCeCmb asTkkueh
COMICS, from page Lll
has plagued him since being shot 
in the back. It has been a dark 
and sinister road that has seen 
our brave hero endure deep hard
ships.
Byrne creates a true hero in 
Iron Man, whose perseverance 
and dignity are inspiring in a 
sappy kind of way. The clichs 
often involved with this com
mon dissolution and rebirth 
storyline are skillfully avoided. 
In the process, Byrne fleshes out 
an honest portrayal of the noble 
man inside the armor, a por
trayal which easily earns the 
readers respect.
In addition to the Marvel Com
ics work that Byrne is involved 
in, he is also pursuing an inde
pendent project called The Next 
Men appearing in the anthology 
book Dark Horse Presents. For 
DC Comics he is creating a fourIts a bird, it's a plane, no ... its Iron Man!
issue mini-series titled OMAC, created by comic great Jack
another science fiction story Kirby. Indeed, Mr. Byrne is quite
based loosely on the character prolific these days.
lrgulueeuthU
Since 1961, Amnesty 
International has been 
writing love letters  
for more than 150,000 
men, women and 
children around the 
world. They're in prison 
or being tortured simply 
for what they said, 
believe or who they are. 
And that's criminal.
Write a love letter 
today. Tell them you 
know and care. It could 
be the sweetest letter 
you've ever sent.
Write a letter, 
save a life.
Amnesty International
d4EE6NG9 dNI 41Y1lj6
Come In For 
A Test Fly.
1 :1
G)
(/)Cl)nk.8 IsD LU-Wightman
OPEN 1 17
Murray Ave
1 Pittsburgh Pro 
Bicycles
2012 Murray Ave 
I Squirrel Hill
521-2453 (521-BIKE)
CMUATENIOH&
courtesy Joe Bob Briggs
In Theres Nothing Out There, Bonnie Bowers wants to be ready in 
case there is.
to be worried by this; Jeff 
Dachis, as the reluctant David, 
for saying I dont exactly call a 
disappearing raw chicken a 
murder attempt; Bonnie Bow
ers, for wearing the best bikini 
for most of the flick, and for 
saying He is a horror film  a 
walking, talking horror film; 
Craig Peck, as Mike, for discov
ering the creatures one weak
ness  a face full of shaving 
cream; and Rolfe Kanefsky, for 
putting the true spirit of Abbott 
and Costello in a drive-in movie. 
The kid has a future.
Three stars.
Joe Bob says check it out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and 
only Drive-In movie critic from 
Grapevine, Texas.
1991 Marvel Entertainment Group, Inc.
Tartan senior staffwriter 
Waseem Hussain is a senior bi
ology major.
How would vou like to:
See movies & plays for free?
Go to cool cast parties?
Get on movie sets?
Meet celebrities?
Well, you can...
Write for Diversions.
Staff meeting tonight 
7:00 pm, Tartan Office (Skibo 50).
In this
Marine Corps 
officer's program, 
you follow your 
major before 
you follow ours.
A college major leaves you little time to 
minor in anything else. So how do you 
become an officer in the United States 
Marine Corps, if you want to concentrate 
on your major before you devote your 
undivided attention to one of ours? Join 
the Marine Corps'PLC (Platoon Leaders 
Class) program, where all your training 
takes place in the summer. The kind of 
training that will really test your ability. If 
you want to become an officer in the 
Marine Corps, join the PLC program.
And this summer you can change majors
See Captain Mark Huffman 
on September 9th & 10th 
from 10am to 2pm at Skibo Hall 
or call 644-5817 or 1-800-999-1775.
Mannes
TbeFemTbeProad.The Marines.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  3 September 1991L13
Thursday, September 5
^ti FmCkneCrm 1usuotneCrm
Sick of your classes? Cant find a decent party on 
campus? Need a break from your homework? Then 
head on over to DH 2210 and check out some of the 
worlds best animation.
The 3rd Animation Celebration is a must see 
for animation buffs and a great stress reliever for 
those who just need a break from their problem set. 
Its also a lot of fun. So head on over to DH 2210 and 
turn off your brain for an hour-and-a-half.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, September 6
Efu GtCceuth
The Grifters is not your ordinary slick con-before-you-get-conned flick  its darker, more in
tense, and more meaningful. The film is directed by 
Stephen Frears, the guy who directed Dangerous 
Liaisons, so you can certainly expect to get your 
Recommended Daily Allowance of lying, cheat
ing, and stealing, but you can also expect seamless, 
unflawed direction, free of the annoying little tech
nical farts that have killed many a movie before its 
time.
The Grifters also features some of the most pow
erful performances in recent memory by John 
Cusack, a struggling young con artist, Annette 
Bening, his disillusioned spandex-clad girlfriend, 
and Anj elica Huston, his mother who is so detached 
and unmaternal, you have to wonder if shes actu
ally human (at least until the end of the movie, 
where she finally gives us a glimpse of what she is 
before snatching it back again).
This film will not inspire you to live a life of 
charity and humility, but it is definitely worth your 
buck. Make a point of seeing it.
At 6, 8,10,12
Saturday, September 7
FpnLumCmbh
Based on a true story, Awakenings is an excel
lent comedy-drama which was little seen when it 
came out in the theaters, but should not be passed 
over this time around.
Robin Williams plays Dr. Malcolm Sayer, a quiet 
research physician who uses an experimental drug 
on his catatonic patients; and Robert De Niro stars 
(in a best actor Oscar nominated performance) as 
Leonard, the first patient to receive this controver
sial treatment. However, De Niros awakening 
has far reaching effects to everyone around him, 
and helps to bring Williams out of his own shell as 
the patient reveals lifes many pleasures to his 
doctor. Eventually, De Niros drastic recovery sends 
Williams up against the hospitals administration 
over giving the drug to the rest of his patients.
With strong performances from the entire cast, 
great direction from Penny Marshall, and an excel
lent script, Awakenings is a must see.
At 6, 8,10,12
Sunday, September 8
Efu Gricnefut
How can you pass up an offer you cant refuse? 
Thats what you get in The Godfather, the best 
gangster movie of all time. Vito Corleone, the God
father, by far surpasses any other Sicilian or Ital
ian mafia Don in cinematic history. Corleone is 
such a powerful figure that he would have had A1 
Capone and Bugsy Malone fearing for their terri
tory.
In addition to a great story and excellent direc
tion, this movie has an all-star cast featuring A1 
Pacino, Marlon Brando, James Caan, Diane Keaton, 
Talia Shire, and Abe Vigoda. Directed by Francis 
Ford Coppola, it won an Oscar for Best Picture. 
Youll be kept on the edge of your seat with mafia 
intrigues and gunfights.
For first-time viewers, make sure to keep your 
eyes peeled for the infamous horse head scene, 
Sonnys murder, and Michaels revenge. For those 
of you who have seen it, is a dollar too much to 
spend to see the Corleone family take care of 
family business?
At 6, 9,12
By NICOLE ALLEN, MEGAN DIETZ, 
STEPHEN GLICKER, and LINDA 
LOMBARDI
EfnmLh crt CmguheCmb Cm rTt 3rkkTmCeMU
United
way
Your gift to the United Way helps people in Southwestern 
Pennsylvania all year long. When you invest in the community 
through the United Way, you help provide services that address a 
wide range of community needs. Your contribution helps strengthen 
families, promotes self-sufficiency, and improves the lives of 
thousands of people who need help including children and young 
adults, senior citizens and individuals who are disabled. Thank you.
o
mao
CD
U
m
U
I
m
u
D
m
U
V
CQ
tt T T
ROSH HASHANAH SERVICES ON CAMPUS
EVENT TIMELOCATION
Sunday, September 8,1991
Erev Rosh Hashanah Dinner 
Egalitarian Conservative Service 
Traditional Service 
Rosh Hashanah Dinner
6:30 PM 
8:15 PM 
7:30 PM
following services
Hillel Dining Center 
Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union 
Wherrett Room, Skibo
COORDINATORS
B'nai Brith Hillel 
B'nai B'rith Hillel 
Chabad House 
Chabad House
Monday, September 9,1991
Egalitarian Conservative Service 9:00 AM
Traditional Service and meal 9:00 AM
Reform Service 10:00 AM
Tashlich Service 6:30 PM
Traditional Service and meal 8:00 PM
Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union 
Wherrett Room, Skibo 
Kurtzman Room, Wm. Pitt Union 
Outside Phipps Conservatory 
Wherrett Room, Skibo
Tuesday, September, 10,1991
Egalitarian Conservative Service 9:00 AM
Traditional Service and meal 9:00 AM
Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union 
Wherrett Room, Skibo
B'nai B'rith Hillel 
Chabad House 
B'nai B'rith Hillel 
Chabad House 
Chabad House
B'nai B'rith Hillel 
Chabad House
The services that B'nai B'rith Hillel, the Reform Chavurah of B'nai B'rith Hillel, and Chabad House coordinate are open to all members of the university community. Tile William Pitt Union is located on the corner of Fifth Avenue and Bigelow Boulevard on the campus of the University of Pittsburgh. Skibo is located on Forbes Avenue near Morewood on the campus of Carnegie Mellon University. Phipps Conservatory is located on Frank Curto Drive in Schenley Park. Students will be meeting in front of Skibo (Forbes Avenue side) and Wiliam Pitt Union (Fifth Avenue side) 1/2 hour before services, and walking over together,. For additional information about meals, home hospitality, schedule of services in local congregations, or to make dinner reservations, call us.
BNAI BRITH HILLEL FOUNDATION 
621-8875
CHABAD HOUSE ON CAMPUS 
683-7770
?
CDa
OQc
V
m
u.
mao
CDa
D
m
fti T T
^'sLiti/eA
621-2295 * 621-2366
Fast Free Delivery to Oakland, Shadyside, Squirrel Hill, Pitt & CMU
TRADITIONAL PIZZA
Topping
Junior 9"4 cuts2.97.40
Small 12" 6 cuts4.25.66
Medium 14" 8 cuts5.00.85
Large 16" 12 cuts5.99.94
X-Large 18" 16 cuts7.001.13
TOPPINGS
Pepperoni  Mushrooms  Onions
 Ham  Salami  Cappicola  
Green peppers  Hot pepper rings
 Black Olives  Sausage  
Meatball  Pineapple  Tomato
WEDGIES
Your favorite fillings in our fresh
baked pizza dough
smalllargeItalian4.506.20Ham & cheese 4.506.20Steak4.506.20Turkey4.506.20Meatball4.506.20Gyro4.506.20
Free Pepsi or 
Garlic Toast 
w/Cheese
with the purchase of any
SALAD
Limited time
2 Large Pizzas 
Plus 1 FREE topping 
each 
ONLY 
"U"" + enW
(Traditional Pizza Only)Limited Time
CALZONES
small large 
Italian 4.70 6.70
Steak 4.70 6.70
Vegetarian 4.70 6.70
Pepperoni 4.70 6.70
Mushroom 4.20 6.20
Saus.age 4.20 6.20
Ham & Cheese 4.20 6.20
Meatball 4.70 6.70
Seafood & Spinach 4.70 6.70
Extra Fillings .40 .75
SALADS
Antipasto
Chef
Steak
Tuna
Garden
Seafood
3.99
3.99
3.99
3.99 
1.80
3.99
PIZZA BAGEL
Plain 1.50
Extra Toppings .20
HOAGIES
Half Whole 
Italian 2.60 4.10
Meatball 2.60 5.50
Hot Sausage 2.60 4.50
Ham & Cheese 2.40 4.10
Cheese Steak 2.60 4.50
Vegetarian 2.60 4.10
Turkey 2.60 4.50
Tuna 2.60 4.50
Extra Toppings .25 .50
NEW GOURMET PIZZA
Seafood - with spinach, tomato, & 
lemon pepper 
9" 4.50 12" 6.50
Shea's Special - Artichoke hearts, 
tomatoes, & onions 
9" 4.50 12" 6.50
Fresh Vegetable - mushroom, green 
pepper, onion, tomato, & spinach 
9'4.50 12" 6.50
PASTA
All dinners are topped with our 
blend of four cheeses & include 
garlic bread.
Manicotti 
Stuffed Shells 
Rigatoni
4.65
4.65 
3.25
with Hot Sausage 4.65
with Meatballs 
Garlic Toast with 
melted cheese
4.25
.60
Fifth Avenue WendysChildren'sHospital
cGLittle Italy>
1Euler Way RobbinsM
1Forbes Avenue
Pick-up or Delivery Only
Mon - ThursFri.Sat.Sun
11:00 am-11:00 am -4:00 pm -4:00 pm -
1:30 am2:30 am2:30 am1:30 amLimited Time
One free topping and 2 free Pepsi's
Large
Pizza
only
/U""+AyKB
(Traditional Pizza Only) Limited Time
Buy one Gourmet 
Pizza and get the 
Second
1/2 off

---------------------------------------------------

Morewood TV Room on Friday from 8 pm 
to midnight. Admission is free and snack 
foods will be provided. For more infor
mation, contact Njema Frazier at x4381.
SPIRIT will hold a General Body Meet
ing in Smith Hall 220 at 7 pm on Septem
ber 12. For more information, call Njema 
Frazier at x4381.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy cel
ebrates mass daily on campus at 12:30 
pm in Skibo 39 Monday through Friday. 
Weekend masses are celebrated at 7 pm 
Saturday and at 10:30 am Sunday in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Adminis
tration auditorium. For more informa
tion, call the Oratory at 681-3181.
am to 5 pm and 7:30-8:30 pm Tuesday to 
Friday, 1-4 pm and 7:30-8:30 pm Satur
day.
The 1991 Guild Ball, sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre, will take place 
at the Westin William Penn Hotel in 
downtown Pittsburgh on Friday, Sep
tember 20 at 7 pm. For more informa
tion, call 343-6959.
Festival in the Woods 1991 will take 
place on September 21 and 22. A 5K run 
will be held on Saturday at 10 am; regis
tration begins at 9 am. Parades, food, 
hayrides, amusement rides, and game 
booths will follow and continue all day 
Sunday. For pre-registration informa
tion, contact Bradford Woods Commu
nity Church at 935-3135.
Corporation
Al Pacino, Marlon Brando, James Caan, and John Cazale star in Francis Ford Coppola's masterpiece, The Godfather, which will 
play in DH 2210 on Sunday at 6, 9, and midnight.
Admission to all DH 2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films is 
$3, unless otherwise specified.
Tatie Danielle will play each night at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse through Sep
tember 12. All shows are at 7 pm and 
admission is $4.
The Neverending Story (Part 1) will 
play at the Pittsburgh Playhouse to
night at 7:30 pm.
Memphis Belle will play at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse Wednesday evening at 
7:30 pm.
3rd Animation Celebration will play 
in DH 2210 on Thursday at 6, 8, and 10 
pm.
Some Like It Hot will play at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse on Thursday at 7:30 
pm.
The Boys in the Band will play on 
Friday at 7:30 pm in Baker 245C. Spon
sored by cmuOUT.
The Grifters will play in DH 2210 on 
Friday at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
The Silence of the Lambs will play at
the Pittsburgh Playhouse on Friday at 
7:30 pm.
Awakenings will play in DH 2210 on 
Saturday at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Hamlet will play at the Pittsburgh Play
house on Saturday at 7:30 pm.
The Godfather will play in DH 2210 on 
Sunday at 6, 9, and midnight.
Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Fac
tory will play at the Pittsburgh Play
house on Sunday at 7:30 pm.
Cheerleader and Mascot Tryouts will 
be held today at 5 pm in the small gym 
(on the first floor). All students are wel
come to try out. The cheering is for var
sity football and mens and womens bas
ketball home games only. For more in
formation, contact Susan Javorski at 
x2004, x2005, or x2006.
The CMU Celtic History Society will 
hold its first meeting on Wednesday at 
5:30 pm in Skibo 201. Free cookies will 
be available to all who attend. For more 
information, contact Newt at x8164.
cmuOUT will hold a general business 
meeting on Monday, September 9 at 7 
pm in Skibo 59.
The Committee to Save the Syria 
Mosque is hosting a Cultural Celebra
tion and Street Party today from 6-9 
pm. Music, dance, and theater perfor
mances will take place in front of the 
Mosque on Bigelow Boulevard. All are 
encouraged to attend and show their 
support. For more information, call 255- 
2140.
The Grow With Pittsburgh Career 
Expo for job seekers in engineering, 
health, food service, and sales will be 
held on Tuesday and Wednesday, Sep
tember 10-11, at the David L. Lawrence 
Convention Center from 37 pm on Tues
day and 10 am to 6 pm on Wednesday. 
Admission is free. Resumes are required 
and screening will take place at the door. 
For more information, call (401) 732- 
9850.
Mayur will hold an introductory meet
ing in the Wherrett Room on Thursday 
at 5 pm. For more information, contact 
Mrinal Gyenga at x4587.
Pittsburgh Singles Sixth Annual 
Benefit Dance for the American Can
cer Society will be held Friday, Septem
ber 27 at the Greentree Holiday Inn from 
8:30 pm to 1:30 am. Sponsored by the 
Catholic Alumni Club of Pittsburgh, the 
dance is open to all interested people and 
door prizes will be awarded. Tickets are 
$10 in advance or $12 at the door. For 
tickets or more information, call 486- 
4732 or 341-4070.
SPIRIT Movie Night will be held in the
Anne Marguerite Michaud will per
form on the harp in concert at Mellon 
Institute on Sunday at 3 pm. Special 
appearances given by Anthony Bianco 
and Cuarteto Latinoamericano. Admis
sion is $10.
The River City Brass Band opens its 
1991-92 season with Sing a Song of 
Freedom to commemorate the bicenten
nial of our Bill of Rights in various Pitts
burgh locales throughout September. All 
shows are at 8 pm unless otherwise noted. 
Performances will be held September 12 
at Gateway High School in Monroeville; 
September 13 and 14 at the Carnegie 
Music Hall in Oakland; September 15 at 
Trinity High School in Washington (show 
starts at 2:30 pm); September 17 at Mt. 
Lebanon High School in Mt. Lebanon; 
September 20 at Carson Middle School 
in McCandless; and September 21 at 
The Palace Theater in Greensburg. For 
more information or reservations, call 
the box office at (412) 322-RCBB or (800) 
292-RCBB.
Meg Webster, an environmental artist, 
will present a lecture on art in the 
Adamson Wing of Baker Hall on Tues
day at 5 pm. Sponsored by the College of 
Fine Arts.
The Endangered Landscape, a col
lection of paintings, drawings, and mixed 
media pieces by Janet Culbertson, will 
be showing at the Hewlett Gallery 
through September 10. Hours are 11:30
The mens and womens cross-coun
try teams will race;to the finish on 
Saturday as they run in their first meets 
of the season at home. The womens team 
will compete against California Univer
sity of PA and PittJohnstown at 11 am, 
and the mens team competes against 
California University of PA at 11:45 am.
The football team will kick off its sea
son in Gesling Stadium against Allegh
eny College on Saturday at 7 pm.
The mens and womens soccer teams
travel to Case Western Reserve to com
pete in their first games of the year on 
Saturday. The mens team will compete 
at 1 pm and the womens team will com
pete at 3:30 pm.
The womens tennis team takes to the 
net at the West Liberty State College 
Tournament with Akron, IUP, and West 
Liberty on Saturday at 9:30 am and 
Sunday at 9 am.
The womens volleyball team sends 
its first serves and spikes in the Carn
egie Mellon Invitational at home on Fri
day at 5 pm and Saturday at 9 am.
Publicize events to the CMU campus community for 
free and get great results!
(Its as simple as that.)
Send submissions to The Tartan, Calendar Editor, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 
15213; send campus mail to Calendar Editor, TheTartan, Skibo Information Desk; or simply hand-deliver 
it to the office (Skibo 50). You can also submit via AppleShare in the Calendar drop folder on The Tartan 
server in the Skibo zone. Deadline is 5 pm Thursdays. Space is limited and placement is not guaranteed.
Great! Now that we have everyone's attention, wed like to remind you all about ...
Vox Populi (Voice of the People for those of you who never studied Latin) was created 
in an attempt to help relieve stress, not promote it. In short, it's a way to publish your 
thoughts for free (with a limit of up to 50 words). Some actual examples are:
Dillon  
You are perhaps the most magnificent work of art on this campus. 
Scott  
Im so sorry. Please talk to me.
 Laur
While Vox is a fun outlet, it was not meant to be abusive. We reserve the right to reject 
submissions, so play nicely. You have been warned.
Send submissions to The Tartan, Calendar Editor, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 
15213; send campus mail to Calendar Editor, The Tartan, Skibo Information Desk; or simply handdeliver 
it to the office (Skibo 50). You can also submit via AppleShare in the Calendar drop folder on The Tartan 
server in the Skibo zone. Deadline is 5 pm Thursdays. Space is limited and placement is not guaranteed.
(
