Tech Changes 
Parking Procedure
Recommendation for adjust
ments of CIT Parking proced
ures made by the Campus Park
ing Committee have recently re
ceived the approval of the Execu
tive Board und the President. The j 
revisions which stem from meetings held by the committee in No
vember, December and January 
will simplify procedures,.increase 
flexibility and make parking 
available to many more students.
The Parking Committee has 
arranged for installation of park
ing meters in the Skibo and new 
Margaret Morrison lots to pro
vide greater opportunities for 
parking of CIT students, person
nel and visitors. Meters are to
Students eagerly await to pay fees for the new semester registration.
Skibo Shows 
<lfFilms For 
Liberal Minded
Operation Abolition and Op
eration Correction are to be 
shown February 19th in the 
Wherett Room, Skibo at 6:00 p.m. 
All are welcome.
i  These films are brought to the 
campus by the Tech Students For 
Liberal Thought and Action. Op
eration Abolition was made from 
newsreels of the May. 1960 
House Unamerican Activities 
Committees investigations in San 
Francisco. The purpose of thesa 
investigations was to expose the 
Communist movements on the 
West Coast. The film attempts to 
tie in spontaneous student dem
onstration and a rally of adults 
(including U.S. Congressmen and 
clergymen) as favoring and sup
porting the Communists.
Operation Correction was pro
duced by the California branch 
of the American Civil Liberties 
Union. They believed that the se
quence of events and facts pre
sented by Abolition was untrue 
and definitely slanted against the 
^ralliers.
Operation Abolition was orig
inally distributed by the Armed 
Services. However, as the con
troversy grew, the Armed Ser
vices were forced to withdraw it 
from circulation. It is now made 
available by the Alcoa Company 
which uses it in their training 
program. Correction is made 
available by the local American 
Civil Liberties Union.
Enthusiastic SnS Swings; 
Auditions Continue for Show
Enthusiasm and excitement 
radiated throughout Wherrett 
Lounge this past Saturday, Feb.
9 when SnS held its first audi| tions as they begin a campus tali ent search. Reviewing the talent 
was the SnS board consisting of 
Regina Ress, president; Dean 
Brown, author of the show; Dinah 
Mathias, choregrapher; and Rich
ard Moore, Musical director.
As Regina remarked, this 
weeks auditions were a great 
success and we reviewed many 
interesting people, but were also 
looking forward to next week and 
hope to see everyone there. The 
auditions will be held again next 
Saturday in Wherrett Lounge 
from 1-5.
Not only is the club looking for 
musical talent, but they are ex
tremely interested in production 
people to work on paint crews, 
props, costumes, construction, 
publicity and running crew.
The board seemed pleased that 
months of planning and organi
zation are beginning to take shape 
and the prospect of months more 
of hard work isnt dampening 
their spirit. Already, they are 
beginning to recapture the group 
spirit and community Theatre at
mosphere which contributed to 
the success of last year's pro
duction.
The community theatre spirit 
was orientated by the club last 
year so that everyone would be 
directly working for the show 
and not for a less appealing and 
impersonal organizational struc
ture. The club believes that the 
success of a production depends 
on each individual involved doing 
his part. With spirited and de
voted working together for a 
show, it is difficult not to have 
a successful production.
Again, just a reminder, SnS is 
swinging into action for an
other year, so dont miss the 
bandwagon. Auditions will be 
held in Wherrett Lounge between 
1-5 p.m.
On Friday, February 15, the 
Kiltie Band and Wind Ensemble 
will present a concert under the 
direction of Conductor Richard 
Strange and Associate Conductor 
Philip Catelinet. Performance 
time is 8:15 p.m. at Carnegie Mu
sic Hall. The program includes: 
Symphony No. 3 for band by 
Giannini; Lincolnshire Posy by 
Granger; Prelude, Chorale, and 
Fugue by Bach; and Water Mu
sic Suite by Handel.
Admission costs are: Adults,
$1.00: Students, $.50; Student with 
date, $.75.
Religious 
Conferences 
Open to All
This years Campus Conference 
on Religion will include a series 
of meetings which will discuss the 
similarities and differences among 
the various religions represented 
on Techs Campus. These meetings 
which are open to all interested 
students, will take place during 
the week following the Campus 
Conference on Religion assembly 
and banquet which are on Tues
day, February 19. Each of these 
meetings will be conducted by two 
campus religious groups. Each1 
group will present an example of 
their activities and manner of 
worship by actually presenting a j 
short worship service. After the 
two demonstrations each meetj 
ing will be devoted to informal 
discussions, questions and an
swers between the two groups.1 
Others in attendance will also be 
given an opportunity to address 
questions to either group.
On Tuesday, February 19, at 
11:30 in Fine Arts Theater, Dr. 
Richard Luecke, Lutheran chap
lain of Princeton University, will1 
deliver the keynote address of this 
years Campus Conference on Re! 
ligion. The title of Dr. Lueckes 
talk will be Revelation and the 
Search for Truth in the Univer
sity.
At 4:30 in Wherrett Lounge a 
panel of four clergymen (one 
Roman Catholic, one Jew and two j 
Protestants) will react to what 
the speaker said in the morning 
program and question and discuss 
(continued on page 5)
allow a very flexible program, 
pay only as you use the park
ing areas. It will no longer be 
necessary to purchase a permit 
at a fixed rate, a permit that 
quite often is used only a few 
days a week due to class sched
ules, use of street parking, or 
limited use of the family vehicle. 
Meters are to be in effect week
days 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Sat
urdays 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
Three hours will register for each 
nickel, providing any combina
tion up to twelve hours for twen
ty cents. Meters will be equipped 
to receive nickels, dimes or quar
ters for convenience. All students 
having automobiles in their pos
session may procure identifying 
stickers at the Skibo Office or at 
the Security Office, AH 243. thus 
becoming eligible to use these 
lots.
The sale of permits for Morewood Gardens lot will continue. 
The holder of such permit may 
park his vehcile in the area twen
ty-four hours a day if desired. 
Morewood permits may be ob
tained at the Security Office, AH 
243.
All parking lots now in opera
tion may be used free of charge 
until the meters have been in
stalled. The lot along ^Margaret 
Morrison is still under construc
tion and not yet available for use.
Fla. Symphony 
Contracts
J. de Blasis
Recently James M. de Blasis 
was contracted by the Florida 
Symphony of Orlando to direct 
that orchestras first staged op
era, La Boheme, which w'as pre
sented on February 8.
The orchestra was conducted 
by Henry Mazer and Metropoli
tan Opera singers Richard Tuck
er, Teresa Stratas, and Heide 
Krall were in the cast.
James de Blasis has always 
wanted to sing; nothing could 
stifle this desirenot even the 
United States Armt. He took ad
vantage of being stationed in Ger
many and studied at the St. Stutt
gart Opera . Company for 18 
monfhs. Encouraged by this train
ing, his desire drove him to New 
York City where he woi*ied in 
an office to pay for additional 
__________ (continued on page 6)
Student Congress
There will be a regular meet
ing of Student Congress at 4:30 
on February 13, 1963 in the Wher
rett Lounge, Skibo. Any inter
ested student is urged to attend.
Students audition before Scotch  Soda board for 19i cJicw.
Fraternity Rush Schedule
Today starts the formal second semester fraternitv rush. 
All interested Tech men may go to any Fraternity at any 
time during the week; no invitations are necessary for any 
of the events. The schedule of formal rush events is 
Wednesday, February 13  Dinner 
Friday, February 15  Dinner 
Saturday. February 16, 8:15  Basketball G ame 
Date Party 
Monday, February 18  Dinner 
Tuesday, February 19  Dinner 
Wednesday, February 20  Dinner 
The parties on Saturday, February 16, will not begin 
until after the basketball game. All those interested are wel
come to attend these parties. All rush affairs are formal.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55  NUMBER 15 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1963

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 13, 1963
BULLETIN BOARD
Camp Counselors
Applications for the position of 
Freshman Camp Counselor for the 
1963 Freshman Camp are now 
available in Dr. Strick's office, 
Skibo 103. These applications 
should be Returned to Skibo 103 
no later than 4:30 p.m., Friday, 
February 22.
PiDE Fall Call
On January 6, Pi Delta Epsi
lon, national journalism hororary, 
initiated the following new mem
bers, each nominated by their 
respective organizations for out
standing contributions: Patterns
Liesse Chable, Betsy Hall; Tar
tanEllie Denberg, Mike Greenawalt, Charlie HoFook, Jan Scharp, 
Miron Straf, B. J. Zimnewicz; 
Technical  Gladys Stalinsky; 
ThistleAron J. Collins, Kenn 
Liberman; WRCTJim Levy.
Design Seminar
The fourth seminar in the series 
on "Design will feature Profes
sor Leo Finzi who will discuss 
some examples of design prob
lems in Electrical Engineering. 
It will be held Thursday, Febru
ary 14 at 4:00 p.m. in the Scaife 
Lecture Hall.
Coffee will be served at 3:45 
p.m. in the Scaife Lobby. All fac
ulty and graduate students are 
cordially invited.
Engineers' Week
Next week is National Engi
neers Week. In accordance with 
this national observance, Penn
sylvania Society of Professional 
Engineers is holding their annual 
banquet at the Penn-Sheraton Ho
tel on Thursday, February 21, 
1963.
The main speaker will be Dr. 
Robert W. VanHouten, President 
of Newark College of Engineer
ing. The Coachmen will provide 
the dinner music.
For reservations call the Chap
ter Office, EX 1-0615.
ACM Meeting
At the next meeting of the 
Carnegie Tech Student Chapter 
of the Association for Computing 
Machinery, Mr. A. LiftOn will 
speak on Designing SoftwareOriented Hardware. Mr. Lifton 
is the Burroughs Pittsburgh Area 
Representative and his talk will 
relate primarily to the D5000 
computer. The meeting will be 
tonight at 8:00 p.m. in Room 413, 
Scaife Hall. All interested per
sons are welcome, and a special 
invitation is extended to those 
taking computing courses.
Applications
Appilcations for Chairman of 
the Freshman Orientation Week
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELR REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MTJ. 1-6104
are being accepted by Executive 
Council, Dean Stricts Office. All 
applications, including qualifica
tions, are due by 4:30 p.m., Febru
ary 28, 1963.
Christian Fellowship
Can God Be Known is the 
topic of a series of fraternity dis
cussions held during the week of 
Feb. 11, by Tech Christian Fel
lowship, a chapter of Inter-Var
sity Christian Fellowship. The 
discussions will be led by national 
staff members of Inter-Varsity. 
More discussions will also be held 
in the mens and womens dorms. 
The University of Pittsburgh is 
participating in the present series 
with Carnegie Tech.
SHOES SHOES
WALLY'S
AlWatc  hlesEro
SHOES
Women
SMART CASUALS 
LOAFERS 
FLATS 
DRESS SHOES
HUSH - PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAGIC 
FLORSHEIM
3612 FORBES AVE.U.S. KEDS
(Across from Strand Theater)
talk to Lord, 
about careers in 
vibration /shock /noise control
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS Thursday, February 28, 1963
See your Placement Office for an interview with the Lord representative.
Lord Manufacturing Company 
has specialized for over 35 years 
in development and application 
of engineered systems to control 
the effects of vibration, shock 
and noise. As the acknowledged 
leader in this field, our technology 
has influenced design and per
formance of mechanical devices 
throughout industry.
what does Lord do?
Your career at Lord would involve 
you in such challenging assign
ments as the design, development, 
testing or manufacture of:
 a remarkable family of elastomers 
with broad temperature capabilities
 engine mountings for most out
board engines, light aircraft, 
heavy trucks
 a revolutionary traction motor 
mounting for railroad locomotives
 a new concept now being adopted 
for marine dock fendering
 the most sophisticated shock 
attenuation system ever developed 
(cushions 1000 G shocks)
 high-reliability protection for 
inertial guidance systems on all 
major missiles.
These are past accomplishments. 
We are looking for men who can 
accept responsibility, and contrib
ute to our rapid growth and diver
sification.
what are the opportunities?
Our field is broad, with challeng
ing opportunities for high-caliber 
graduates interested in: mechani
cal, chemical, industrial, metallurgical 
and aeronautical engineering... phys
ical, organic, polymer and rubber 
chemistry ...physics and mathematics.
what does Lord offer?
To the qualified man, Lord offers 
... a medium-size company that is 
research-oriented, quality-minded
... rapid professional development 
... a creative atmosphere with 
capable associates 
... continued learning through 
company programs, advanced 
classes, seminars
... salary commensurate with your 
contributions
... a pleasant community with good 
cultural, religious, educational and 
recreational facilities.
Carnegie Tech men have capital
ized on this opportunity. Tech 
alumni now hold such positions at 
Lord as Manager of Engineering, 
Product Manager, Engineering 
Supervisor, Design Engineer, Re
search Physicist, Research Engi
neer and Field Engineer.
If the opportunities in vibration/ 
shock/noise control appeal to you, 
investigate further with Lord.
LORD MANUFACTURING COMPANY  ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA
Want a free checking account!
At Union National Bank, you can have a free personal checking account. 
Just keep a $200 balance. Theres no service charge. No maintenance 
charge. No charge for new checks. No charge for deposits. Pay your 
bills the easy way. Stop in at your nearest Union National Bank office 
and open your free personal checking account. Come in today.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH
MAIN OFFICE: FOURTH AVENUE AT WOOD STREET 
AND: 4612 FORBES AVENUE, OAKLAND
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATIONMEMBER: FEDERAL RESERVE SVSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 13, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  I age J
^Prospective Frosh Receive 
Latest Tech Information
The Admissions Office announces 
the receipt of the new Carnegie 
Undergraduate Catalog 1963-4. 
Administrative officers and the 
general faculty will receive desk 
copies of this catalog via the campjc mail. Aseparate, supple
mental publication, Carnegie Un
dergraduate Curricula and Course 
Descriptions 1963-4, will be avail
able within the month.
The catalog is designed primar
ily to interest high school stu
dents in Carnegie Tech and con
tains general information about 
' ^Carnegie, the campus, entering 
procedure, and financial arrange
ments. It contains a deans intro
duction to each college and de
scriptions of each department inHumanities 
Offers Yearly
my
*Essay Contest
Techs Division of Humanistic 
and Social Studies is again spon
soring an essay contest. The sub
ject of the essay can concern any 
current problem of a community 
or government, with a suggested 
solution.
Preliminary entries are to con
sist of a statement of not over 
600 words presenting the problem 
and suggested lines of analysis 
and solution; and any available 
evidence substantiating these. The 
preliminaries will be judged and 
only finalists wil submit com
pleted essays.
All Tech undergraduate stu
dents are eligible to enter the 
contest. Preliminary entries are 
^ito be delivered to Dean Strides 
office, Skibo 103, by Februarv 25, 
1963.
Cash prizes will be awarded to 
the finalists.
PPG Gives Travel Granito Student
eluding freshman curricular out
lines.
The supplement contains full 
curicula and course description in
formation for the undergraduate 
program in each department. It 
I has been designed, primarily as a 
j work book for faculty and coun
selors and therefore is being 
printed in limited quantity. Desk 
copies of the supplement will be 
distributed to administrative of
ficers and faculty as soon as the 
publication is received from the 
printer. Copies will also be made 
available in the Hunt Library and 
iistudent residence halls.
Students wil be asked to use 
the reference copies of both the 
supplement and the catalog avail
able in the library and residence 
halls and in faculty, departmental, 
and college offices.
With the publication of these 
books, a new schedule is estab
lished. Both catalog and supple
ment will be revised and repub
lished annually.
An outstanding under-graduate 
student in the department of 
architecture at Tech will be given 
tht opportunity for traveling in 
Europe because of a recent grant 
to CIT by the Pittsburgh Plate 
Glass Foundation.
The Foundation has given the 
department a two-year $5000 
grant to support two traveling 
scholarships, one to be awarded 
this spring and the other in 1964. 
Each of the scholarships will be 
valued at $2500. The awards are 
to be made to a fourth-year stu
dent in the five-year architecture 
program for travel and study in 
Europe. Qualifications for the 
scholarship include general acaSan Juan Mayor 
Speaks at Chatham
The Honorable Felisa Rincon de 
Gautier, the Mayor of San Juan, 
Puerto Rico, will give a major 
address at Chatham College on 
Thursday, February 14, at 8:15 
p.m. in the College Chapel.
Dona Felisa is one of the foun
ders of the Popular Democratic 
Party in Puerto Rico and has 
been party president in San Juan 
since its beginning in 1940. She 
has been mayor for 16 years dur
ing which time San Juan has been 
changed from an area of slums 
and poverty into an efficient and 
progressive modern city. The pop
ulation of San Juan has grown 
from 180,000 to more than onehalf million persons in that time.
The lecture is free and open to 
the public.
WHATS
NEW
IN THE FEBRUARY
ATLANTIC?
How Not to Teach Teachers: The
training of American teachers is un
wieldy, slow-witted, bureaucratic . . . 
a failure," says James D. Koerner in 
this incisive, critical analysis.
ALSO
J. B. Priestly : Reminiscences about 
the author's service in World War I
"Lampedusa in Sicily" : An Atlantic 
Extra by Archibald Colquhoun
Archibald MacLeish: On hatred exhib* 
ited in racial conflicts
W. D. Snodgrass: A new poem
"The Indiana Dunes and 
Pressure Politics:
William Peeples
The pursuit of excel
lence is the everyday 
job of the Atlantic's 
editors be it in fic
tion or fact, poetry 
or prose. In everincreasing numbers, 
those in pursuit of 
academic excellence 
find in the Atlantic a 
challenging, enter
taining and enlight
ening companion.
Get your copy today.ON
SALE
NOW
ENGINEERS
... LAUNCH YOUR CAREER 
IN THE NATURAL GAS INDUSTRY
The COLUMBIA GAS SYSTEM, Inc., as one of the countrys largest inte
grated natural gas companies, is a leader in the nations sixth largest industry. 
COLUMBIAS operations include the location, production, transmission, storage, 
distribution, and sale of natural gas. The effective conduct of these diversified oper
ations requires the continuous application of the latest developments in each engi
neering specialty.
Opportunities are available in both regular
engineering positions and in technical sales for:
 CHEMICAL
 MECHANICAL
 ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS: FEBRUARY 18
h
Further information regarding opportunities available with COLUMBIA 
GAS is available at the Placement Bureau. Inquiries may also be addressed to:
Pittsburgh Group Companies
COLUMBIA GAS SYSTEM
800 UNION TRUST BUILDING 
PITTSBURGH 1*. PENNSYLVANIA
demic performance with special; 
emphasis in creative promise. It is j 
expected that the student will! 
spend his study time in Europe in i 
areas related to his architectural ! 
field of study.
The grant is to be administered 
by the department of architecture 
and the Foundation has express
ed the wish only that it be given
to an undergraduate in the de
partment of architecture for use 
before the competition of his un
dergraduate work. The Founda
tion also expressed the hope tha| 
the student would return to Car
negie Tech for the competition of 
undergraduate studies so that 
other students owuld benefit from 
his experience.
On Campuswith
MaxShulman
(Author of I Was a Teen-age Dwarf, The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis, etc.)
THE CURSE OF THE CAMPUS: NO. 1
Hate me if you will, but I must speak. We college types are 
far too complacent. Sure, weve got plenty to be proud of. 
Weve got atom smashers, weve got graduate schools, weve got 
new peaks in scholarship, new highs in academic honors. And yet, 
in the midst of these triumphs, we have failed dismally to make 
any progress in solving the oldest and most horrendous of all 
campus problems: weve still got roommates.
To be sure, all roommates are not bad. There is the welldocumented ca.se of Hilquit Glebe, a student at the Manhattan 
College of Agriculture, majoring in curds and whev, who ad
mitted publicly that he actually liked his roommatean odd 
admission when you consider that this roommate, Mervis 
Trunz by name, was frankly not too winsome a fellow. He 
practiced his tympani in his room, he kept an alligator, and he 
collected airplane tires.
But, on the other hand, Mervis bought two packs of Marll>oro 
Cigarettes every day and gave one of them to Hilquit andI ask 
youwho can stay mad at a man who gives you Marlboro 
Cigarettes? Who, upon tasting that flavorful blend of Marlboro 
tobaccos, upon drawing through that pure white Marlboro filter, 
ujxrn exulting in this best of all possible cigarettes, Marlboro  
who, I say, can harden his heart against his neighbor? Certainly 
not Hilquit. Certainly not I. Certainly not you, as you will find 
when you scurry to your nearest tobacconist and buy a supply. 
Marlboros come in soft pack or Flip-Top Box. Tobacconist 
come in small, medium, and large.
'lodfl My ts wwofki
But I digress. Roommates, I say, are still with us and I 
fear they always will be, so we better learn how to get along 
with them. It can be done, you know. Take, for instance, the 
classic case of Dolly Pitcher and Mollv Madison.
Dolly and Molly, roommates at a prominent Midwestern 
girls school (Vassar) had a problem that seemed insoluble. Dolly 
could only study late at night, and Molly could not stay awake 
past nine o clock. If Dolly kept the lights on, the room was too 
bright for Molly to sleep. If Molly turned the lights off, the 
room was too dark for Dolly to study. What to do?
Well sir, those two intelligent American kids found an an
swer. They got a miner's cap for Dolly! Thus, she had enough 
light to study by, and still the room was dark enough for 
Molly to sleep.
It must be admitted, however, that this solution, ingenious 
as it was, had some unexpected sequelae. Dolly got so en
chanted with her miner s cap that she switched her major from 
18th Century poetry to mining and metallurgy. Shortly after 
graduation she had what appeared to be a great stroke of luck: 
while out prospecting, she discovered what is without question 
the world s largest feldspar mine. This might have made Dolly 
very rich except that nobody, alas, has yet discovered a use for 
feldspar, loday Dolly, a broken woman, squeezes out a meagre 
living making echoes for tourists in Mammoth Cave.
Nor has Molly fared conspicuously better. Once Dolly got 
the miner s hat, Molly was able to catch up on her long-lost 
sleep. She woke after eight days, refreshed and vigorous  more 
vigorous, alas, than she realized. It was the afternoon of the 
annual Deans tea. Molly stood in line with her classmates, 
waiting to shake the Deans hand. At last her turn came, and 
Molly, full of strength and health, gave the Dean a firm hand
shakeso firm, indeed, that all five of the Deans knuckle* 
were permanently fused.
The Dean sued for a million dollars, and, of course, won. To
day Molly, a broken woman, is paying off her debt by walking 
the Dean's cat every afternoon for ten cents an hour.
<9 MW MuShuloiM  
We, the makers oi Marlboro and the sponsors of this column, 
will not attempt to expertize about roommates. But ir 
will tell you about a great pocket or purse mateMarlboro 
Cigaretteline tobacco, tine filter, tine company aluay*.
SH,

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 13, 1963
Editorial
Pay As You Park?
The semester is only a week old and al
ready the campus is involved in new con
troversy: the new parking program. To one 
interested in the theory of rumors, the Tech 
campus these last few days would be an ex
cellent case study. There have been as many 
incorrect programs as there are students, 
and an even great number of unfounded 
gripes. One student went so far as to esti
mate the new cost of meter-parking to $120 
a year. It is hoped that the parking policy 
statement in this issue of the Tartan will 
clarify the issue and dispel some of the com
position.
In some groups, particularly student gov
ernment, opinion is strongly against the 
planned change and for the retention of the 
old program. Still others are opposed to any 
parking program, so long as it involves an 
expense on the students part. Neverthe
less, it appears that student parking fees are 
here to stay. Before we speak too loudly 
against the new program, we ought to con
sider some of the ways in which it is superior 
to the old
This new program involves a pay as you 
Readers Write
park concept. The student who feels he 
was losing money at five dollars per permit a 
semester now has the opportunity to save 
money. He may sometimes find parking on 
one of the streets near Tech and pay nothing 
at all. Under the old program he still paid 
for Tech parking. Also, the commuter is no 
longer tied to car pools. There is no more 
need to wait hours after class for your ride. 
One can drive himself and pay, perhaps, a 
dime for the day instead of having to pur
chase a semesters permit. The new stickers 
are distributed free and for as many vehicles 
as the student desires. In short, this means 
that every Tech student will be entitled to 
use Tech parking facilities. Permits will no 
longer be rationed and students forced to 
form car pools. Finally, the old program is 
not completely gone. A compromise has oc
curred. Those who prefer may continue to 
use the Morewood Gardens lot on a semester 
basis.
Many-students have already secured the 
new stickers and expressed satisfaction with 
this innovation. v
Axelrad Still Draws Comment
On God Receives 
Nietzche Quote
Dear Mr. Axelrad:
In response to your article 
On God I would li-ke to offer 
the following thought for your 
consideration:
 ... It always remains a 
metaphysical faith upon which 
our faith in science reststhat 
even we devotees of knowledge 
today, we godless ones and 
anti-metaphysicians, still take 
our fire too from the flame 
which a faith thousands of yeai's 
old has kindled; that Christian 
faith, which was also Platos 
faith, that God is truth, that 
truth is divine ... (authors 
italics)
From: Toward a Genealogy of 
Morals by Frederick Nietzche 
Linda A. Zinner
make their own decisions until 
their decisions run counter to 
his? Then the federal govern
ment should step in and the 
problem will be solved.
You wont convince many 
people of the right of indivi
duals with this approach, Mr. 
Axelrad.
Dwight B. Crane
Axelrad Continues 
Changing Mind
Editor, The Tartan:
Mr. Axelrad has really done 
it this time!
During his numerous colums 
this fall he has continously 
stated his belief in the right of 
the individual to make his own 
decisions, whatever the outcome. 
He has argued against national 
goals because people should not 
be forced to achieve things they 
do not desire. And. he has also 
argued strongly that social se
curity should be voluntary so 
that people would not be forced 
to save for their old age.
Now he has changed his mind. 
The United States government 
should take over control of edu
cation so that people could be 
forced into achieving a goal of 
better education. People in New 
York should be forced into pay
ing for education in Georgia be
cause the Georgians are not 
willing to do it themselves.
A question. Mr. Axelrad. Why 
should people be protected from 
their folly of not spending 
enough for education, but should 
not be protected from their 
folly of not saving for their old 
age? Both of these follies have 
an important impact on our 
country and not just on the individi
It s<
rene
fho n
prdifCandle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Drug Addiction 
Problem
tween these two 
Itms is that Mr. Axelra< 
lieves in one cause and r 
the other. Isnt he saying 
individuals should be fr
(Letters Continued on Page 5)
This Week In Pittsburgh
Thursday, February 14
Film Arts  Seven Brides for Seven Brothers (U.S. 1953) 
Room 100 Porter Hall, 4:30, 7:00 and 9:30 p.m.
Continuing Events
Carnegie Institute  One Man Exhibit: Clark Winter, 
Gallery I, Third Floor; Exhibition of Drawings of fac
ulty artists of Amherst, Mount Holyoke. Smith, P. of 
Massachusetts, Hewlett Gallery; Paintings from the 
Hirshorn Foundation Collection: A View of the Protean 
Century, Second Floor Galleries E, F, G and H. 
Pittsburgh Gallery of Fine Art (Oakland) Paintings by Ed 
Davin.
Playhouse  Fantasticks  Carnegie Tech students 
Elaine Nedlick and Don Boziek appearing. Hamlet 
Street Theatre Bye Bye Birdie  Craft Avenue 
Theatre.
Penn  The Sound of Music National Touring Company; 
closses February 16.
Stanley  Term cf Trial, Laurence Oliver, Simone 
Signoret 
Fulton  The Longest Day 
Nixon  Mutiny on the Bounty Marlon Brando
Shadyside  Carry on Teacher
Guild  Phaedra, Melina Mercouri, Anthony Perkins
Music Department
Feb. 13  Debut of the Carnegie Fine Arts Quartet. Sidney 
Harth - Violin; Teresa Harth - Violin; George Gross
man - Viola; Eugene Eicher - Cello. 8:30' p.m. Carnegie 
Lecture Hall Program: Mozart, Shostakovitch, 
Beethoven.
Feb. 15  Concert by the Kiltie Band and Wind Ensemble 
Richard Strange, Conductor; Philip Catelinet, Associate 
Conductor. 8:15 Carnegie Music Hall.
Feb. 18  Musica Viva Trio. Bernard Goldberg, Flute; Theo 
Salzman, Violoncello; Harry Franklin, Piano; 8:15 
Carnegie Music Hall. Program: Rameau, Beethoven, 
Rorem, Martini.
Paintings and Design
Hewlett Gallery  Drawings by faculty artists of Amherst, 
Mount Holyoke, Smith, and the University of Massa
chusetts, February 11 to March 1.
Porter Garnett Gallery (A.H.)  Push Pin Studios Ex
hibition, February 11 to 28.
The government of the United States and its individual states, 
expressing the will of the vast majority of its citizens, has decreed 
that the buying or selling of narcotics (except for tobacco) is illegal. 
Why? The reasons most commonly given for this restriction of 
individual liberty should be examined.
It is claimed that these evil drugs are habit-forming, and 
cause bad health and even early death to the person using them. 
While they are habit-forming, doctors are not nearly as sure as the*f 
average person that narcotics, taken in moderate doses, are harmful
 even if taken over long periods of time! However, even if they 
are harmful, is this sufficient reason to keep them from anyone who 
desires them if the person knows the effects these drugs will have 
on him? Some arguments claim that if a person becomes addicted, 
society will be hurt because the individual will not contribute any
thing to the common good, and may even become destitute  and 
thus a ward of society costing money to keep. Individuals owe 
nothing (beside a few material items) to any society  how much 
does any individual, no matter how virtuous, improve civilization 
in the long run? It is not true that people become destitute be
cause of their addiction  in fact the opposite is true in many 
cases! Addicts are conscientious workers because they need money 
to pay for the drugs and are fearful of taking any chances that 
will not enable them to pay for their supplies. Today some addicts 
are driven to steal  but this is despite their addiction, not because 
of it. The last thing an addict wants is to be put in jail because this 
cuts off his supplies. If society were to allow known addicts to hold 
jobs for which they are capable, -they would jump at the chance. 
But changing attitudes is a long, slow process, and can not be ex
pected now  legal recognition is the first step. Also, if legalized, 
narcotics could be sold on the open market and their price driven ^ 
down until they would not cost much more than cigarettes. An 
addict could be assured of having a steady, reasonably priced supply, 
and could devote his time to leading a more normal life.
Persons who take narcotics sometimes seem like the scum of 
the Earth. However, this may have been the case before they be
came addicted. People may become addicted because they want to 
run away from life or forget some experience which is unbearable. 
Narcotics make them happy, and enable them to live with them
selves. Running away or hiding from oneself may not seem a good 
solution to a problem, but this is only an opinion, and because the j 
majority holds this opinion is no reason why the minority of nar
cotic users can not hold, and act on, an opposite one. A majority 
has a right to interfere with any minoritys behavior only when 
the minority is harming the majority.
It is time pressure was brought to bear on the majority to relax 
the unjust restrictions on narcotics. All the legislation that is needed 
is a law to prevent sellers of narcotics from influencing people be
fore they are old enough to make intelligent decisions. It (legaliz
ing the sale of narcotics) is a step toward a free society and individ
ual freedom.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo. Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief MU. 2-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager, MA. 1- 
1504; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly during 
the school year except holidays and examination periods by 
the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13, Pa.
Annua! Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Inc.
Editor-in-chief .....................................Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor ..............................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor .............................................Fritz Klinke
Business Manager ............................................Miron Straf
News Editor ...................................................Joyce Holy
Assistant News Editor..............................Margie Park
Features Editor .....................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor ......................................................Anne Moser
Advertising Manager..............................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ......................................................John Blue
Layout Editor .................................................Allan Pollock
Secretarial Editor .........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .................................Mike Greenawalt
Editorial Board: Mark Applebaum. Colin Jones. Margie Park. Henry Henderson, 
B. J. Zimnewicz. Miron Straf, and Chuck First.
Layout Staff: Fritz Klinke, A1 Pollock. Nancy Cameron, Mike McCoy, Drew 
Lippay. Marion Mulligan. Ann Carten, Holly Lawerence. *
News Staff: Colin Jones. Maity Moore. Fay Landau. Frank Brady, Gladys Stalinsky. Jaye Lapidus. Elite Denbeig. Miriam Gillespie. Marion Mulligan. Lois 
ElinofT Janice Lester. Jam Leone. Matty Sauer, Chuck Steinmeyer. Peggy 
Riva. Judi Meyers. Jan Scharp. Marty Siegel. Sally Sheats, Sandy Lancaster. 
Cindy Wolfson, Ellen Hamill. Nancy Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Sports: Scott McCormick. Ken Kantrowitz.
Secretarial Staff: Betsy Bellows Mary Breitenstein, Jane Cline, Susan Witt, and
Leslie McKinley.
Circulation: Tom Johnson. George Kail and Jay Priest
Feature Staff: Andrea Nether, Joan Hoexter. Jane Skeehan, Ruth Geshekten, 
Susan Crytzer. Perry Axarlis. Nadalyn Goldberg. Ken Lieberman. Jeffrey 
Axelrad. Marion Mulligan. Judy Meyers, Lynn Mahler, Jennifer Low, Marty 
Sauer. Irene Grandberg, Ollie Donaldson.
(.'py Staff: Clarita Dzatko, Jan Wurmb, Nancy Green, Ginny Uliss, Nancy 
Cameron
Photography: R*-Jr Blackburn, Russ Steinbawgh, Bill Jackson

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February IS, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pagre 5
RS&ders Write Con't.
Letters Express Student View
(continued from page 4)
I nrlorE Praises 
I Henry Miller
Editor, The Tartan:
Ever since the publishings of 
I vienry Millers, Tropic of CanP ?er and now with the publish
ing of his Tropic oi Capricorn
I I have been reading articles 
I condemning him to everlasting 
purgatory and praising him to 
the supreme heights of Val
halla. I have always thought 
that somewhere his style of 
writing must stem from one of 
the philosophers  as all knowI ledge stems from the great 
thinkers. The other day in read
ing Spinoza I came across a 
paragraph that I feel sums up 
Mr. Miller and his style of 
writing:
I will write about human beSkibo Displays 
Photo Exhibit
unique exhibition of modern 
wonder drugs and chemicals 
photographed under the micro
scope is on view at the Skibo 
Gallery continying through March 
3. This exhibition is being circ
ulated nationally by the Smith
sonian Traveling Exhibition ServRevealing patterns and colors 
that rival the imagination of to
days nonobjective artists, thes^ 
l#otomicrographs are the work 
of Jack iCath O' the Merck Sharp 
and Dohme Research Laboratories 
Division of Merck and Co.. Inc. 
The subjects he paints with his 
camera are primarily drugs and 
chemicals discovered or develop
ed by Merck scientists, including
ings as though I were concerned 
with lines and planes and sol
ids. (Short Studies, I, 308)
I have labored carefully not 
to mock, lament, or execrate, 
but to usderstand human ac
tions; and to this end I have 
looked upon passions . . . not 
as vices of human nature but 
as properties just as pertinent 
to it as are heat, cold, storm, 
thunder, and the like to the na
ture of the atmosphere. (Epis
tle 58, Ed. Pollack)
Perhaps if his critics would 
read these few sentences and 
then reread Mr. Miller, all of 
the indignation about his socalled immoral style of writing 
will be forgotten and the critics 
could get down to the job of lis
tening to what he has to say. It 
is this impartiality of approach 
that gives Mr. Millers studies 
of human nature cuch superi
ority over the authors that sur
round him today.
Harry Schlee
Graduate Student, Music
Contest Begins; 
Designs UnlimitedFor Better Livimg
such research firsts as cortisone 
and hydrocortisone,
Kath aids scientists in their re
search by photographing com
pounds at enlargements up to 600 
times. In the course of this work 
Kath noted the unusual beauty of 
the magnified crystals. He began 
t experiment by changing the 
position of the slide in the micro
scope and by introducing polar
ized light to heighten color ef
fects. The photomicrographs on 
exhibit are magnified 120 times.
Crystals of these compounds 
offer an infinite variety of size, 
shape, and character. It is virtual
ly impossible to duplicate the 
crystallization pattern of a single 
compound on two slides.
GENERAL FOODS
CORPORATIONOnnCanmpucampus interviews
CARNEGIS TUOFHGFI LYC
A wide variety of outstanding career oppor
tunities are available at General Foods, a 
leader in the food industry, our nations larg
est business  developing, producing and 
marketing packaged grocery products.
Consult your Placement Officer for further 
information about our visit to your campus 
 and be sure to review the General Foods 
brochure..  youll find it most interesting.
GENERAL FOODS CORPORATION
250 North Street, White Plains, N. Y.
Maxwell House Coffee # Jell-0 Desserts # Post Cereals 
0 Birds Eye Frozen Foods # and many other fine products
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
etfu ftl ineorrr nfm onat 30 uc
/ft iy EC Tmn 
dFDRn LPOSINm
HINTS SHINY, NEW AUTOMOBILES THROUGH THE
BUDGET
RENT-A-CAR 
SYSTEM
ill
SHARE TRANSPORTATION COSTS ON YOUR NEXT 
DATE! IT'S CHEAPER THAN USING TAXI-CABS!
No rentals under age 21. For ages 21 to 25 there is a 20% additional charge and a cash deposit is required. Please note: Other car rental companies do not rent to drivers under 25.
BUDGET RENT-A-CAR of Pittsburgh, inc.
609 Bigelow Blvd. (Across from the Carlton House) Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
Phone: s61-33s0
A wood furniture design com
petition for graduate and senior 
design students has been an
nounced by the Fine Hardwoods 
Association and the Pavilion of 
American Interiors, of the New 
York Worlds Fair, 1964-65.
The competition titled Design 
Unlimited  for Better Living 
offers substantial dollar awards, 
to the prize winners, and pro
vides opportunity for the novice 
designer to be introduced to the 
furniture industry.
For further information write 
the Fine Hardwoods Assrr:, 666 
Laek Shore Dr., Chicago 11, 111.
Princeton Chaplin Addresses 
Campus Conference on Religion
(continued from page 1) 
Oriented Hardware. 
the main theme. Dr. Luecke will 
then have a chance to respond to 
what the panel has said.
The days program will end 
with a banquet at 6:00. The Cam
pus Conference Banquet will be 
held in the Faculty Dining Room, 
second floor, Skibo. Tickets for 
this banquet will cost $1.50 and 
may be obtained from the Office 
of Religious Affairs in Skibo.
During .the week of the nine
teenth and the week following 
there will be a series of joint 
meetings between the religious 
organizations at Tech. At these 
meetings each group will present 
to the other a demonstration of 
their liturgy. The exact time and 
location of these meetings will be 
available from the religious or
ganization, from the Office of Re
ligious Affairs, and in the Febru
ary 20th issue of the TARTAN. 
All interested persons are invited 
to attend any of the meetings.
PORKY CHEDWICK'S
^pec ta cu io 
?rooueat
Syria Mosque ^ Friday, Feb. 15
2 big shows - 7:30 and 10 p.m.
in person
JACKIE WILSON ? BOBBY RYDELL
*THE ORLONS 
JUNIOR LEWIS 
JIVE FIVE 
ROCKYFELLERS
LOU CHRISTIE yL THE EXCITERS
. LITTLE ANTHONY . FIVE ROYALS
THE DEBONAIRS ROYAL ROCKERS
M BELMONTS BOB CALENDAR
TICKETS: $1.50, $2.50. $3.50
ON SALE NOW AT: Hornes; Sugars Record Shop; National Record Mart, 234 Forbes St.;
and Sam Goody, Liberty Ave.
BY MAIL: Porky Chedwick, Room 211, Carlton House, Pgh. 19, Pa.
ADVANCED AEROSPACE 
PROGRAMS AT DOUGLAS
have created outstanding 
career opportunities for
SCIENTISTS and ENGINEERS
with advanced degrees
Assignments include the following areas:
Servo-Mechanisms  relating to 
all types of control problems 
Electronic Systems  relating to 
all types of guidance, detection, 
control and communications 
Propulsionrelating to fluidmechanics, thermodynamics, 
dynamics, internal aerodynamics 
Environmental  relating to air 
conditioning, pressurization and 
oxygen systems
Human Factors analysis of 
environment affecting pilot and 
space crews, design of cockpit con
soles, instrument panels and pilot 
equipment
Heat Transfer  relating to air
craft, missile and space vehicle 
structures
Structures  relating to cyclic 
loads, temperature effects, and the 
investigation of new materials, 
methods, products, etc. 
Aerodynamics  relating to wind 
tunnel, research, stability and 
control
Solid State Physics  relating to 
metal surfaces and fatigue 
Space vehicle and weapon 
system studies of all types, 
involving a vast range of scientific 
and engineering skills
Get full information at
INDIVIDUAL ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
with a Douglas representative 
Thursday  Friday. February 21-22, 1963
We urge you to make an appointment through Gordon G. Sikes, 
Director, Placement Bureau. If you cannot, please write to 
S. A. Amestoy, Engineering Employment Manager
DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT COMPANY, INC.
3000 Ocean Park Blvd., Santa Monica, California
An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

Face   CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. February 13, 1963
James de Blasis Directs La Boheme
(continued from page 1) 
voice lessons. Of his days in New 
York, he lamented, It was fu
tile. I had the ambition, but no 
preparation. And, with a chuckle, 
"I guess that just like everyone 
else, I was hoping to find suc
cess waiting for me alone. 
Vowing to give up his ambi
tions iit the musical theatre for
ever, he left New York to accept 
an assistant manageral position 
in a jewelry store in Bellaire, 
Ohio. But once again his intense 
desire to perform forced him to 
sing, and be became bass soloist 
for a church choir. Good for
tune was on my side when the 
choir organist left, he reminisced. 
Mr. Henry Mazer, the conductor 
for the Wheeling Symphony So
ciety, consented to replace her 
one Sunday. Since I was now di
recting the choir, he continued, 
I had the opportunity to talk 
with Mr. Mazer awhile. After 
several subsequent meetings, we 
discussed producing a Grand Op
era in this little town. And we 
did. Mr. de Blasis was not only 
a performer in the opera but de
signer of sets and director as well. 
There were other productions, 
for example, The Marriage of 
Figaro. Eventually Mr. Mazer 
asked why I never had gone to 
school to gain experience in stag
ing and dramtics. His question
i made me think seriously about 
returning to school, and conse
quently I applied to Carnegie 
Tech. I studied there for five 
years and received the prepara
tion I so badly needed.
James de Blasis specialized in 
directing at Tech and after grad
uating in 1959 continued for a 
year to receive his M. F. A. in 
combined field of music and di
rection. In 1960, he began teach
ing full time at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse and part time at Car
negie Tech.
Since l'eturning to school, Ive 
wanted to combine music and di
recting. To perform well, a vo
calist must dramatize; that is, he 
must be able to act out as well 
, as sing a song. Musical theatre, 
a combination of dramatics and 
music is what he teaches at Tech 
in Opera Workshop. Evidently 
pleased, he said that contrary to 
; what many professionals once be
lieved possible, this intermingl
ing of music and theatre has been 
j quite successful.
He is also gratified and sur
prised by his new-found ability 
to train others. Ha' ing married 
a teacher and lived with her for 
' a number of years, he grinned, 
II never thought I could put up 
with all that she, as a teacher, 
had endured. But now I find that 
what most teachers say is true.
One does find a personal reward 
in teaching when a student gets 
it. It is richly satisfying to see 
a part of men in the student 
who succeeds.
To complement his diverse in
terest in music and direction, 
James de Blasis leads a varied 
and extremely active life. He is 
Assistant Stage Director of the 
Pittsburgh Opera Company and 
faculty advisor to the Scotch 'n 
Soda productions at Tech. Work
ing with students out of class as 
well can lead to amusing situa
tions. Once I was confronted by 
a member of the administration 
who declared You look just like 
a student! I was dressed like 
this, he confessed, chuckling as 
he indicated his un - academic 
crew neck sweater and slacks. 
For three years he has directed 
I the touring Kniekerty* Knockerty 
players, and as a resident actorsinger for the Civic Light Op
era Company since 1958. he has 
protrayed a host of colorful roles 
; (Harry the Horse in Guys and
Dolls, Francy in Bells are Ring
ing, and Dr. Blind in Roslinda). 
\ He added another to this list of 
peared in La Boheme. Because
accomplishment when he apof his ability to play such a wide
range of characters, he has been 
called a juvenile sophisticate.
STUDENT
TRAVEL...
STUDENTS 
CAN AFFORD !
STUDY-TRAVEL
PROGRAMS
some scholarship 
assistance available 
Also Work Camp 
& Hosteling 
12-46 land days . .. from $300
33 ITINERARIES
featuring:
Western & Central Europe 
Eastern Europe & USSR 
Scandinavia  Spain 
Turkey  South America 
Israel  Greece 
36-60 land days . . . from $510 
also
INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP 
DRIVE-YOURSELF TOURS
and
BERMUDA SPRING WEEKS 
$239 all-inclusive by air
SERVICES FOR INDEPENDENT STUDENT TRAVELLERS
International Student ID card..................................................... $1.00Handbook on Student Travel (Lodgings and Restaurants) . SI.00
Work, Study, Travel Abroad........................................................ $1.00
European charter flights and other transportation
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION
Educational Travel, Inc., Dept. CN 
20 West 38th Street, New Yoi'k 18, N. Y 
OXford 5-5070
USNSA is a non-profit organization serving the American student community"
African Group 
Tours Again
The African studies group for 
college students, a non-profit or
ganization in New York, is setting 
up a small group of twelve stu
dents who will spend an excit
ing eight orn ine weeks in East 
Africa and Europe this summer. 
For four or five weeks they will 
live in Kenya, Tanganika. Uganda, 
the Sudan and E?ypt, visiting 
many of the East African tribes 
and seeing and photographing 
literally hundreds of different 
species of wild animals. Visits 
will also be made to Peace Corps 
installations, Operation Cross
roads projects and several meet
ings have been scheduled where 
the Americans will have a chance 
to meet and exchange ideas with 
African University students.
The students who go will have 
to like the rugged outdoor life. 
Part of the time will be spent on 
a safari into the African Bush 
where they will sleep ir tents 
and eat around a campfire.
Good photographers will be 
welcomed; part of the project will 
be to get some photographers for
National Geographic and the Mu
seum of Natural History.
Alter leaving Africa the group 
will spend several weeks in 
Greece, Rome, Paris and I.ondon.
Anyone desiring more informa
tion may contact the African Stu
dies Group For College Students, 
c/o Mr. Ted Estabrook, 8 East 
92nd Street, New York, New York.
Lancaster Panliel 
Offers Scholarship
Lancaster County Panhellenic 
of Pennsylvania is offering an 
award of $150.00 to an outstand
ing girl who is a member of a 
National Panhellenic Fraternity 
and is a resident of Lancaster 
County. Pennsylvania.
The award, which may be used 
as the recipient wishes, will be 
based on:
1. Academic achievement
2. Service and activities
3. Character and need
Applications for the award can
be had by sending a stamped, selfaddressed envelope to: Awards
Chairman, 523 Locust Street, 
Columbia, Pennsylvania.
The deadline for returning com
pleted applications is April 1, 
1963.
V
Four different ways to make going 
more fun than getting there
You can see why one of Americas 
favorite outdoor sports is driving 
Chevrolets, with four entirely different 
kinds of cars to choose from. Theres 
the Jet-smooth ('hevrolet, about as luxu
rious as you can go without going over
board in price; the low-cost 
Chevy II, a good-looking car 
that would send any family 
packing; another family 
favorite, the sporty Cortair,
will make you think that ice and snow 
are kid stuff; and for pure adventure, 
Americas only sports car, Corvette 
now in two all-new versions with looks 
that can stop traffic like a rush-hour 
blizzard. Picked your favorite already?
The next thing is to take 
the wheel at your Chevrolet 
dealers* If that doesnt have 
you thinking of places to 
go, maybe youd rather just
whose rear-engine traction Keeps Going Great have a ball around town!
JET-SM00TH CHEVROLET IMPALA SPORT COUPE
Erik the Red had no choice-but Vitalis with V-7 
will keep your hair neat all day without grease.
Naturally. V-7 is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis^ 
with V 7e> tights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, 
keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Try Vitalis today!
CORVETTE STING RAY SPORT COUPE
Ni/wBonanza Buys on Jour entirely different kinds oj cars at your Chevrolet dealers
C0RVAIR MONZA CLUB COUPE
CHEVY II NOVA 400 SPORTCOUPE

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 13, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 7
Techs Pershing Rifles Complete 
Semester Pledge Training Program
Perhaps the most important 
interest of Techs Pershing Rifles' 
Company is the practical appli
cation of small unit battlefield 
tactics in order to supplement the 
classroom military instruction. It 
is to this end that Company A-5 
conducts its pledge training pro
gram.
The training program is in
tended to serve a twofold pur
pose: first, to provide an organ
ized means for cadets to apply 
in the field what is taught but 
cannot be actively experienced; 
second, to develop within the ca
det during his first year a type 
of professionalism in his attitude 
toward his military service both 
as a Cadet and later as an Of
ficer. This attitude is accepted by 
each PR cadet whether he plans 
a career in the Army or simply 
fulfill his obligation to his coun
try. During each aspect of a P/R 
cadets training he is impressed 
with the fact that as a combat 
officer he is responsible in bat
tle not only for the performance j 
of his duty but for the safety 
and welfare of his men.
An important objective of the 
program is the development of 
self-confidence in the pledge ca
dets. This factor is considered 
by psychologists to be of para
mount importance to survival un
der adverse conditions. Learning 
0 self-control and self-discipline is 
the first step in learning to conntrol and command others.
The exercise of command in 
the field by the Pledge Cadets 
in simulated tactical situations is 
another essential facet of the 
training schedule. "While ir com
mand of a combat or reconaissance patrol on a tactical prob
lem, the cadet develops an ap
preciation for the problems which 
^ suddenly arise during the execu
tion of an operation. During these 
maneuvers, cadets placed in com
mand are responsible for the con
duct of the entire mission. These 
student commanders must them
selves decide such things as tac
tical organization, establishment 
and maintenance of communica
tion systems, and committment 
and deployment of troops. A cri
tique and analysis follow each 
f problem as a regular part of the 
field training routine.
The climax of the semesters 
training program and a tradition 
since the company was organized 
thirteen years ago is the three 
days of military maneuvers in 
northern Pennsylvania known as 
Hell Weekend. During this 
period, pledge cadets are exposed 
to life in the field under simu
lated combat conditions. Hell 
Weekend provides a proving 
ground where everything that the 
pledge cadets have learned about 
battlefield skills is put to prac
tical use. The weekend is divided 
into three distinct training phases. 
The first of these is the engineer 
and signal exercises employing 
such field expedients as construc
tion of rope foot bridges, ele
mentary demoltion tactics, and 
use of tactical radio-telephone 
^ procedure. The second phase con
sists of leadership reaction tests 
in which each pledge cadet takes 
command of a reconaissance pa
trol in an unknown tactical sit
uation. These tests provide an ex
cellent measure of a cadets com
mand ability under fire. The third 
and final stage consists of an ex
ercise in tactical battlefield se
curity where cadets are exposed 
to emergency situations while on 
^ guard posts. Situations were 
made realistic by the use of blank 
ammunitions and artillery simu
lating devices furnished by the 
U.S. Army.
This company is tentatively 
planning to conduct a second se
mester pledge cadet program. 
Those cadets who are interested 
and can qualify are urged to fill 
out a form and turn it into the 
Milit-prv Department as soon as
PM
Engineering Trainees 56,000
Night school students with over two years 
and grade average over 2.5.
MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL
Supplemental educational benefits 
with large Pittsburgh corporation.
. CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1-8926
4150 Jenkins ArcadePittsburgh, 22
Hell Week hits waistline.
possible. The form should in-J program on February 14, at MM
elude only name, address, and B-9 from 1900 to 2100. All those
year. ; interested are invited to attend.
There will be an orientation ' Refreshments will be served.
announcing the rrr
CAMPUS YOUTH HOUR
An informative, inspiring, and interesting program varying from 
week to week, including singers, discussions, guest speakers, 
sermons, buzz groups, panels, and occasional refreshments and 
informal fellowship.
Every Sunday Evening at 7:30 p.m.
Central Christian Church
134 N. Dithridge (13) Phone 621-6760
Just off Fifth Avenue and across from Webster Hall Hotel
REGULAR SUNDAY MORNING SERVICES
9:45 Bible School 11:00 Worship and Communion
Richard D. Hazeltine, Minister
If you are preparing yourself for a career in engi
neering, it will pay you to consider West Penn Power. 
Whether your major is in Electrical, Mechanical, 
Industrial or Civil Engineering, you'll find challeng
ing work with this progressive company serving a 
dynamic, growing industry. Capable, ambitious en
gineers will find opportunities for exciting work in 
transmission, distribution, power station and sales 
engineering including work in research and com
puters. Talk to our representative when he visits 
your campus and get the full story.
At West Penn Power, engineers have a vital role 
in keeping our business alive and growing. In ten 
years, the electric power industry will double its 
generating capacity ... exciting proof that you can 
find not only challenging engineering positions . .. 
but great opportunities to move into management 
capacities. Youll learn from your talk with our rep
resentative that West Penn is an engineering minded 
company that knows and talks your language. That's 
why today, engineers fill many management posi
tions with our company.
If you are looking for a career where you can put 
your engineering skills to work . . . and have the 
opportunity to move ahead as well, be sure to sign 
up today for an interview with West Penn Power.
FEBRUARY 21
WESTPENN POWER COMPA
Cal^i Hill, PFUUNkOHFBS 0UNNk
.. .v. :. WTv.y . ... .---&; -,:--v
Iv
*

---------------------------------------------------

Pige 8  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February IS, 1963
Explorers Club Spends Vacation 
Discovering Unexplored Caves
During the semester break 'half miles of known passage. For 
fifteen members of the Carnegie 
Tech Explorers Club spent sev
eral days in Swago and Germany 
Valleys. In the Swago area near 
Marling+on, W. Va., the explorers 
visited Tub Cave, Bone Cave, Por 
Farm Cave, Marthas Cave and 
Overholts Blowing Cave.
Martha's Cave was of particular 
interest to the members of CTEC. 
In June. 1961, four members of 
the club made an exciting dis
covery. After wading through a 
low tunnel filled with chest-deep 
water, they came to a previously 
unexplored room extending 2000 
meet or more. A year ago the 
CTEC and the Pittsburgh and 
Baltimore Grottos of the National 
Speleological Society sti'ung over 
4,000 feet of communications wire 
to the end of the new gallery, 
now called Alices Gallery. Fu
ture trips to Marthas are being 
planned by the CTEC and Pitts
burgh Grottos to complete a de
tailed map of the cave system.
Overholts Blowing Cave is of 
interest to the CTEC because 
many of our members have work
ed closely with the Pittsburgh and 
Baltimore Grottos in the explora
tion of this system. Originally 
Overholts was thought to extend 
only several hundred feet, but by 
crawling through a low passage 
less than a foot high explorers 
later discovered that the cave 
opens into Neptunes Avenue, a 
large walk through a subway 
passage and Lake Rita, a chestdep lake in Neptunes Avenue. 
After two-thirds of a mile of 
Neptunes Avenue, the cave again 
becomes smaller at the Dardenells, 
a low, water-filled crawl-a w a y, 
of 150 feet. This is followed by 
more crawl-away, several rooms, 
and various passages.
Overholts has three and oneFew European 
Tickets Left
The first meeting for those in
terested in flying to Europe this 
summer at the cost of $310, roundtrip by 707 jet, will be held in 
the Wherrett Room, Skibo, on 
Wednesday, February 13 at 8:00 
p.m.
You will hear how you can 
spend 10 weeks in Europe at an 
Gvvd.N ,RkM RZ $P50! European stu
dents will answer any questions 
you may have on travel in coun
tries such as Britain, France, Ger
many, and Italy.
Yes, theres still room for you 
on the flight if you have not yet 
contacted one of the organizers, 
Richard Hiehaus 682-8548, Harry 
Morris 682-8492, William Russel 
MA 1-0533, or Tom Steffen 682- 
9079. Alternatively write to Car
negie Tech Charter Flight, Box 
235S CIT for further information 
-but better come to the meeting 
See you there!
longer trips Camp I has been 
established two and one-half 
miles underground. This is used
by persons exploring the end of 
the cave, a feat which requires 
several days. During the trek to 
the end, the discovery of a rats 
nest at the top of the fifth water
fall led explorers to believe that 
there is a back door to the cave; 
it is extremely doubtful that a 
rat will swim three and one-half 
miles and also climb five waterfalls to make its nest. There are 
numerous side passages to be ex
plored. On the last trip, three 
persons crawled 1,000 feet of 
mud-lined crawlway, the end of 
which is still to be found.
In Germany Valley, near River
ton an ! South of Seneca, West 
Virginia, some members went into 
Laurence Dome Pit. Others, find
ing the day too beautiful to spend 
underground, went hiking RN 
Smith Mountain near Seneca 
Rocks, i rom the top of Smith 
Mountain several ridges, at least 
30 miles distant, could be clearly 
seen. The hikers followed Z.vU 
miles of dirt road, pipe line, trail, 
and fence and went from eleva
tions of 2,000 feet to 4,000 feet.
Galleries Present 
Hirshliorn Exhibit
Seventy-five major paintings 
from the Hirshhom Foundation 
Collection will be on view in the 
Second Floor Galleries through 
Feb. 26. The paintings, mainly 
oils and a few water colors and 
drawings, are the works of fortyfour well-known European and 
American artists. Entitled A 
View of the Protean Century, 
the exhibition suggests the wide 
range of experimentation and in
vention which characterizes Twen
tieth century painting. It illus
trates and contrasts various ap
proaches to the problems of real
ism, expression and abstraction.
Tempest Winners...Lap 1!
noHucf Br B3eKt
U. OF KENTUCKY
ecGte 0r BLniKte
frYr3r
JcHf fr BItete
THE CITADEL
lILLInA 0r AneuZr
Ktfu ounut 3r
mm
L3iY Ltt Bnootuu 
tAceY 3r
Did you win in Lap 2?
Americas hottest new 
sports convertible!
IMPORTANT! If you hold any of the 10 winning 
numbers, claim your Pontiac Tempest LeMans Con
vertible in accordance with the rules on the reverse 
of your license plate.
All cla&ns for Tempests and Consolation Prizes 
must be sent via registered mail, postmarked by 
February 23, 1963 and received by the judges no 
later tCS' February 25, 1963.
If you hold a Consolation Prize number, you win a 
4-speed Portable Hi-Fi Stereo Set, The Waltz" by 
RCA Victor. Or, you may still win a Tempest! (See 
official claiming rules on reverse of your license 
plate, and observe claiming dates given above.)
LAP 2...
in WINNING I IU NUMBERS!
1. B981859
2. C002912
3. B638354
4. C426638
5. B291597
6. A304475
7. C518660
8. B350692
9. B151360 
10. B203340
CONSOLATION PRIZE NUMBERS I
1. A670436
2r C608361
3r A070773
4r A782549
5r A53401S
6. C111668
7r Cl62385
8. B415769
9r C624148 
L0r BOI8030
LLr B869865
12. C203797
13. A039949
14. CS99394
15. B234707
LM GRAND PRIX 50
owUUpkMGkUk ZRF ,RvvUBUk RNvI
More than 50 times the chance to win than if open to the general public.
35 Tempests to go !
Get set for the next lap . . . 15 more Tempests and 20 
more Consolation Prizes! Its never been easier to win 
. no essays, no jingles, no slogans. Just pick up an 
entry blank where you buy your cigarettes. Enter now ... 
enter often. Any entry received by March 1st, can win 
one of 35 Tempests still to go! Of course, entries youve 
already submitted are still in the running!
EXCLUSIVE FOR THE GIRLS!
If you win a Tempest you may 
choose instead a thrilling expensepaid 2-week Holiday in Europefor 
two! Plus $500 in cash!
Get with the winners...far ahead in smoking satisfactioni
SEE THE PONTIAC TEMPEST AT YOUR NEARBY PONTIAC DEALERI

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 13, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 9
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
Youll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your close-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
hotel WelwteK/ Holl
4415 Fifth Avinu* Pittiburjjh 13, fa. 
Tl*phon: MAyflowor 1-7700
by John Blue
It took Tech about a quarter to 
discover how incredibly bad 
Waynesburg was, but when they 
v did, the game was no contest 
whatsoever. Tech easily defeated 
the Yellowjackets, 68-44, and ran 
their record to 6-9.
At the start of the game, it was 
doubtful whether Tech was plan
ning to score. The fans werent 
worried, for it seemed as if 
Waynesburg had the same idea. 
With eight minutes gone in the 
first half, Tech was behind, 5-3.
With Waynesburg ahead 8-6, 
Tech finally came out of 
their trance and ran off 10 
straight points to take the lead 
16-8. Hank Werronen parked the 
rally with his rebounding and 
jump shot from the foul line.
Comedy of Errors
From then on the issue was 
never in doubt. Tech increased its 
margin to a 27-17 halftime lead 
in a comedy of errors that
would have done credit to the 
Marx brothers.
Tech came back the second half 
with a half-court zone press, and 
the inept Waynesburgers went 
completely to pieces. With George 
McGeary stuffing in the baskets 
from the six inch mark and Wer
ronen hitting from around the 
key, Tech pushed its lead to thirty 
points at one time and coasted in 
to win with a 24 point bulge.
Werronen High
Werronen took game scoring 
honors with 17 points, followed by 
McGeary with 15. Andy Neidra 
took rebounding honors with 13 to 
his credit.
Techs next game will be with 
the powerful Westminster Titans 
on the Titans home court this 
coming Saturday. Westminster, 
rated eighth nationally in the 
small college ranks, was almost 
upset by Tech in their first meet
ing this season. Following that |
game, Tech will take on Mt. 
Union in a home encounter on 
Monday, February 18, and then St. 
Vincent at horfte the following 
Wednesday. Game time for the 
home games is 8:15.
Tech 68  Waynesburg 44 
Tech
FGFPts
Laird317
Neidra419
Morrisor339
Cupps124
McGeary7115
Werronen8117
Rizzo113
Ritchie000
Johnson100
Newell000
Thomas102
rr
29
Waynesburg
1068
FGFPts
Chadderton248
Augustine226
Bailey102
Washington000
Kelley6214
Lowe419
Leshore022
Dusman113
d
161244Andy Niedra prepares to score.
UCrlW MBs:c 
VWaEserWrkHY
XtH MHV!! Nscrc
Carnegie Tech lost in its bid 
to capture second place in the 
Greater Pittsburgh Intercolle^ giate Rifle League to a fine-shooting team from W. and J. Tech's 
score of 1377 was somewhat of an 
improvement over previous out
ings, but W. and J. turned in 
a fine score of 1398. Top shooter 
for the evening was R. B. Miller 
of W. and J. with a score of 285. 
Mike Ray, at 281, Bill Jackson 
and Mike Knepley at 278, and 
Joe Schlitt at 277 produced four 
good scores for Tech, but the 
^best of the remaining five was a 
I" 263 by Bob Schmidt.
Tech lost its second straight to 
Geneva by a score of 1387-1381 
on Genevas range. Mike Ray 
again led the Tartans with a 281 
total followed closely by Mike 
Knepley with a 278. Joe Schlitt, 
Ed Holtgraver, and Bob Fritz 
shot 275, 274, and 273 respec
tively.
* Management Trainees
GRAPHIC CONTROLS CORPORA
TION  A young, progressive com
pany specializing in printing lor auto
mation  is seeking graduating 
seniors for management training posi
tions in several phases of its opera
tions.
Assignment will be in Buffalo, N.V., 
completing projects that emphasize 
individual development for placement 
in a position of responsibility and 
challenge. Advancement opportunities 
are unlimited.
For further information regarding 
career opportunities at GRAPHIC, 
contact your placement office.
Tech Wins 6th From Waynesburg; 
Cagers Sparkle in 68-44 Victory
DUAL FILTER T TVtOTl
ftodud tf v JtfKuo a our mtJJtf r
"Tareytons Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!
Bays Marcus (Ace) Severus, noted Roman natator. After a plunge in the aqua, a Tareyton is the sine qua 
non for enjoyment, says Ace. Heres the flavor amode gustibus you never thought youd get from any filter 
cigarette Keep a pack handy tecum wherever you go.
Dual Filter makes the difference

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 13. 1963
mm
LIEUTENANT JOHN MONTEFUSCO, HISTORY MAJOR, CLASS OF '61
If I had it to do over again, 
would I take Army R.O.T.C.?
Representatives of the following Companies will be 
here to interview Engineering, Mathematics and 
Science Majors and graduate students in Engineering 
and Industrial Administration
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA
Planning, Operations and Accounting 
(Representing Telephone Companies throughout the United States)
WESTERN ELECTRIC COMPANY BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES
Manufacturing & Distribution Research and Development
Consideration wilt b given to all qualified applicants without regard to race, creed, color or national origin
Make Your Appointment Now with Your Placement Office
My wife and I are in Panama at the moment. She likes
it. You know, Officers Club, dancesthat sort of thing. 
I like it, too. But whether I stay in the Army or not, the 
question is: Would I take Army R.O.T.C. if I had it to 
do over again? Yes, I certainly would. In spades, I 
didnt realize how lucky I was. At the time I figured: 
Okay, so Ill get my degreeget an Army commission, 
too, and pick up some extra money along the way! I 
wasnt the leadership type, I thought. I was wrong. Boy, 
was I wrong! Looking back on it, I wouldnt trade the 
leadership training I got for anything! Take my word 
for it, leaders are madenot born! Whether I stay in 
the Army or not, nobody can take away what Ive 
learned. And lets face it, where can anybody my age 
step out of college and walk into a standard of living this 
good? Look, if you have already invested two years in 
college ROTC, take it from me: Stick it out! Itll be 
one of the smartest things you ever did. I say so."
Tartans Crush Allegheny, 78-47; 
Three Defeats Follow Fifth Win
By JOHN BLUE
Carnegie Tech, thrice thwarted 
in its bid to get win number five,' 
roared back against Allegheny | 
with a vengeance to win easily,! 
78-47. In so doing, they ran their, 
record to 5-6, one win more than 
for the entire season last year.
Joe Laird played his usual 
faultless floor game, and in addi-; 
tion, added game scoring honors j 
to his laurels by coming up with 
17 points. Jules Borkowski and 
Ray Morrison were close seconds 
with 15 each.
Tartans Romp
The Tartans were ahead at 
halftime, 39-23 and gradually 
widened their margin as the sec-, 
ond half progressed.
Fresh from the Duquesne deb
acle, in which the Tartans ran a 
total of only six of their set plays, I 
Tech emphasized a control-tvpe 
game with numerous plays and a 
sticky defense.
Hank Cachelriess led the Gators 
With 15 points in a losing cause.
Pre-final jitters may have hit 
the Tartans as they journeyed to 
Grove City and absorbed a sixpoint beating, 78-72.
Scoring for Tech was pretty 
evenly divided, with eight players j 
being in the 8 to 13 point bracket.' 
George Frazier was high with 13 
points, followed by Andy Neidra : 
with 12. I
Foul Shots Hurt
Poor foul shooting continued to 
plague Tech as they only con
verted 12 of 22 chances. The Wol
verines actually had one less field 
goal than Tech, but converted 20 
times to make the difference.
Lions Down Tech
Another away game proved 
fruitless as Tech was defeated by 
an angry band of Nittany Lions 
from Penn State, 75-64.
George Frazier led the sputter
ing attack with 15 points, followed 
by Sam Cupps with 13. Cupps | 
played one of his best games to 
date and snagged a number of rej 
bounds in addition to producing! 
points.
Tech couldnt cope with high  
scoring Earl Hoffman, who took a 1 
21 point average into the game | 
and didnt hurt himself with his
26 point outburst.
The loss dropped Tech to a 5-8 
record.
Frazier Out
Using a revamped lineup be
cause of scholastic difficulties 
within the ranks, Coach Mel 
Cratsleys Tartans still couldnt 
find the away game touch and 
dropped a toughie to John Carroll, 
74-66.
George Frazier, a mainstay in 
the Tech offense and defense, was 
declared ineligible by the admini
stration for academic reasons. His 
absence forced Coach Cratsley to 
move his best inside man outside 
to team with Ray Morrison, and 
to insert 6-ft, 4-in. George MeGeary into the lineup.
Even with the added height, the 
lanky Carroll cagers still had a 
two-inch height advantage, and 
used it in picking the boards clean 
of rebounds.
Ray Morrison had a hot night, 
hitting for eight field goals and. 
tacking on five extra points for a ; 
total of 21. Joe Laird hit 8 for 11 
from the field for a 16 point total. !
Boys night out?  Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack r r r or Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318
Penn State 75TechP4
Tech
FGFrts.
Frazier6315
Morrison408
Cupps4513Laird339
Neidra4210
Borkowski204Werronen204
Ritchie011
ddddddd
251464
Penn State
FGFPts.
Hoffmanli426
Avillion204
Matichak237
Weiss6214
Doan to6517
Cain102
Hoover135
ddddddud
291775
JohnCarroll 74Tech 66
Tech
FGFPts.
Morrison8521
Cupps6113
Laird8016
Neidra237
McGeary102
Borkowski123
Werronen102
Newella11
r
271266
John Carroll
FGFPts.
Murphyit1032
Donalchaki02Gacey7014
Mastrian215
D'Angelo044
Esper113
Vasud5010
Franke204
ddddddddddddddddddd
291674
Tech 78Allegheny 47 
Tech
FGFPt.
F razier5010Borkowski6315Rizzo133Morrison7115Cupps124Ritchi*102Laird6517
McGeary102Johnson102
Neidra204Thomas10%Newell000
321474
Allegheny
FGFPts.
Cachelriess6315Spencer102Sample3511Katz5414
Marquis113Pachuk02
16154TGroveCity 78Tech 72
Tech
FGFPt*.Frazier6113Morrison328Cupps2S7Laird408Neidra5212Borkowski4210Werronen317McGeary317
3012-2278
Grove City
FGFPts.Marovich7216Beller561Arrington339Patrick82ISPratt4311Beilstein113Montgomery135
2920-337
-S
I

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 13, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 11
eUkHvM: fUw ZGm.vI RZ v.BhMwU.BhM pRwUFpvGNMkrrr .N,vHE.NB G NUw 
adY MhGM wU.Bhk LL0 pRHNEk vUkk MhGN MhU ,RmpGFGOvU adY .M FUpvG,Uk
In our search to provide good performance with lighter 
powerplants, Ford Motor Company engineers and 
foundrymen have pioneered new techniques that now 
let us cast our engine blocks with such precision that 
much lighter engines are made possible.
New materials used to make cores and molds and new 
casting methods enable us to make engine parts with 
walls as thick as necessarybut no thicker. This 
eliminates weight of extra material which must be used 
to provide adequate strength with less precise casting 
methods.
Reducing engine weight through precision casting 
means more performance per poundand since
lighter engines mean overall car weight can be 
reduced, better fuel economy results.
Another assignment completedanother Ford First' 
and one more example of how Ford Motor Company 
continues to provide engineering leadership for the 
American Road.
Acuce icA0nfY ^
The American Road, Dearborn, MicMo&n
WHERE ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP 
BRINGS YOU BETTER-BUILT CARS
Swimmers Down Fenn, 69-25; 
Tankmen Meet W. Va. Today
By KEN KANTROWITZ
The Tartan swimmers started 
the second semester on the right 
foot by walloping the Fenn Col
lege squad at Tech pool on Sat
urday, February 9, by a lopsided 
69-24 score. Tech dominated the 
meet from the initial gun and had 
secured the victory after the 
sixth event. The Tartan medley 
relay team posted its best time 
of the season as Wyman, Specht, 
Burdett, and Snow beat Fenn by a 
couple of yards. 
r\ Tech proceeded to capture all 
but three of the remaining ev
ents, although there was no dou
ble winner. Andrews won the 200 
freestyle and French won the 400 
easily. Freshman Mark McCloy, 
swimming his first meet after 
grade troubles the first semester, 
led the field as he posted the best 
winning time for Tech in the 50
ISdc ns!! 
MrWV'hVkl!c
Beta Theta Pi, Obelisk A, the 
Grad Eagles, and Sigma Nu 
bowled their way into the semi
finals of the I.M. bowling tourna
ment with victories over DTD, 
KS, ATO, and PKT. The Betas 
rolled the high team series of 
 7474 in beating the Delts 2474 to 
2335. Roy Gingery led the Betas 
with a 213 game and a fine 561 
series. These were the high game 
and series of the quarter-final 
round. The other quarter-final 
scores were Grads 2464, ATO 
2226; Obelisk A 2452, KS 2225; 
and SN 2398, PKT 2216.
Judging from their perform
ances during the regular league 
play, the Betas and Obelisk A 
would have to be named co-favorites although Sigma Nu and the 
Grads certainly cant be counted 
out yet. The semi-finals will be 
rolled this Saturday and the finals 
one week later.
free (25.4) in more than a year. 
He was followed by French. Les-~ 
ter, still recovering from a bad 
leg injury, beat out teammate 
Brunson by a fraction of an inch 
in an exciting 200 individual med
ley race, as Coach Sofields charges 
swept this and the next two ev
ents for four consecutive sweeps. 
Bennett and Snow won the diving 
as did Wyman and Burdett, ever 
lowering their times in the 200 
Butterfly. Speyer, Lester, and 
Specht took second places in the 
100 free, 200 Back, and 200 
Breaststroke, respectively. The 
final Tech 400 freestyle relay 
team of Snow, Brunson, McCloy, 
and Andrews took the event. 
French and Lester tied for meet 
high point honors (8), followed by 
McCloy, Andrews, Wyman, and 
Snow.
The swimmers entertain the 
highly rated West Virginia 
Mountaineers today, Wednesday, 
at home at 4 p.m. as they continue 
their rugged schedule of five 
meets in fourteen days. The two 
following Saturdays the mermen 
will be on the road. Only one 
home meet remains after todays
meet, against Slippery Rock, next 
Wednesday, February 19. Atten
dance at these two home meets 
will be appreciated by the team.
-tOO yd. Medley Relay T (Wyman, Specht, 
Burdett, Snow), 4:32.7 200 yd. Free An
drews iT) 2:05.9, Wagner (FC) Bell (T) 
50 yd. Free McCloy (T) 25.4, French
<T), Lull (FC), 200 Ind Medley Lester 
(T) 2:37.4, Brunson (T), Hoenes (FC), 
Diving Bennett (T) 149.95, Snow (T),
200 yd. Butterfly Wyman (T) 2:39.4,
Burdett iTt, Kilicke iFC), 100 yd. Free 
Michael (FC) 59.7, Speyer (T), McCloy 
(T), 200 yd. Back Albers (FC) 2:45.0, 
Lester <T). Lull iFC), 500 yd. Free 
French (T> 6:59.7, Wagner (FC), Hartled (T), 200 yd. Breast Kulicke IFC) 
2:40.7, Specht iT), Easley (T), 400 yd. 
Belay T McCloy, Snow, Brunson, An
drews), 4:03.3.
????????????????????????
^Script C^n(jrauin(j
\Positive IdentificationJ
For Slide Rules
Jewelry, Lighters, and 
fountan pens engraved
35c 
Inquire
C.I.T. Bookstore cashier
or call
MU. 1-8487 from 9-12 p.m.
SENIORS
Looking For Work!
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associates 
976 Union Trust Bldg. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319
SATURDAY 
FEB. 23 - 8:30 p.m.
SOLDIERS & SAILORS 
MEMORIAL HALL
Tankmen begin butterfly.
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
GD -PICIGu mfTmnC XPnXmnM
125 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
CIAwmCM  $2.50. $3.50
Now on Sale At 
SKIBO DESK 
Also at Hornes
Ten percent Discount at 
Skibo Desk only.
For Mail Orders Write: 
Shows, Inc.
Box 532 
Pgh. 30, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

Those in the know go for Camel,., 
a real smoke...for real smoking 
satisfaction. Get the clean-cut 
taste of rich tobaccos. Get with 
Camel. Every inch a real smoke 
.comfortably smooth, tool
I ' WN$ mMmmmm:.
|\ 7v The best tobacco 
makes the best smoke.
JIM ARENDER Worlds Champion Parachutist. His cigarette? Camel
) IWi H. 1. Kt/iioliU ToU.tto Conni un j. Wirulon -Sklera, N. C.
Swimmers Lose MeetI
Andrews Is MVP
By BILL HARTLEP
The Carnegie tankmen lost 
their last meet of the first semes
ter to a strong Allegheny College 
squad at Meadville on Saturday, 
January 19. The Tartans were 
able to capture only three firsts 
and two seconds as the Gators 
rolled to an easy 61-25 victory. 
Freshman Geary Andrews once 
again led the way for the losers 
as he captured the 200 and 500 
yard freestyle events, smashing 
his own Tech mark in the latter 
event. He lowered the record by 
4.9 seconds by covering the dis
tance in 6:02.4 seconds. Through
out the first five meets Andrews 
has been beaten twice in the 200 
and once in the 500, finishing sec
ond in all three instances. He now 
own*' two school and one pool re
cord. Because of his stellar per
formance throughout the first se
mester, Andrews received the 
teams most valuable swimmer 
award as he amassed 45% points. 
Len Lester (23), Tom Brunson 
(21%), Frank Wyman (19%), and 
Randy French (17%) followed in 
total points.
The other first place for Tech 
was won by Bill Burdett as he 
beat out teammate Frank Wyman 
for the first time this season in 
the 200 Butterfly, completing the 
only sweep of the meet for Tech. 
Both swimmers have been rapidly 
improving their times as they 
have earned between them a total 
of thirty out of a possible .forty 
points in their event this season. 
French took the other second for
UMOC
the Tartans in the 60 yard free.
Toedtman, Ludwick. and Beatman led the way for the Gators 
with a total of 26 V2 points among 
them, surpassing the entire Skibo 
total. The Tartans record now 
stands at one win and four losses.
400 yd. Medley Kelay AC (Schultz. Shaf
fer. Beatman. Wilson) 4:15.5, 200 yd. 
Free Andrews (T) 2:05.5. Harris (AC*
Reimann (ACi, 00 yd. Free Ludwick 
(AC) 31.8. French (T>, Wilson (AC). 
I(>0 yd. Ind Medley Toedtman (AC) 
1:52.7, Holt (ACi. Brunson (Ti. Diving 
No Board. 200 yd. Butterfly Burdett (T) 
2:41.2. Wyman IT), Holt (AC>, 100 yd. 
Free Beatman l AC 56.7, Ludwick (ACi, 
French (Tl. 200 yd. Back Schultz (ACi 
2:37.0. Lewis (ACt. Brunson IT), 500 yd. 
Free Andrews (Ti. 6:02.4. Harrison (AC), 
Reimann (ACi. 200 yd. Breast Toedtman 
(AC) 2:53.3. Shaffer (ACi, Specht (Ti, 
4H> yd. Relay AC iWilson, Lewis, Beat
man. Reimann) 3:54.2.
All persons, living on 
campus, who are interested 
in working on the business 
staff of
THE
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
in a position of responsi
bility and who can devote 
1-2 hours per WEEK, 
please call MU. 2-4557 
and leave name and tele
phone number and the 
times you can be reached.
tfGIftteIfG c00ceu3fIuIto
for Seniors and Graduates in ^CARNEGANIo
AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, 
ELECTRICAL, NUCLEAR, 
and METALLURGICAL 
ENGINEERING
ENGINEERING MECHANICS 
APPLIED MATHEMATICS 
PHYSICS and 
ENGINEERING PHYSICS
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
0FGMM &lh.MNUIZM.F,FGZM
AcfmnYS TtBr 25
Appointments should be made 
in advance through your 
College Placement Office
3ED AIR 
ft
oivisioN or Recomn 'ncRAFr datR
An Equal Opportunity Employer
SPECIALISTS IN POWER . . . POWER TOR PROPULSION POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS.
CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS,
12  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February IS, 196J
Wed., Thurs., FH., Sat. 
GIRLS. GIRLS, GIRLS 
Elvis Presley ... in color 
also extra added 
I;-.- FOOTBALL 
HIGHLIGHTS
Starting Sun. 17 
Mon., Tues., Wed.. Thors
Shirley Eaton 
CARRY ON CONSTABLE
MU. 3-6992
and
CARRY ON SARGEANT 
Cornine Soon 
WHATEVER HAPPENED 
TO BABY JANE
COMING
Classified ds
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters. reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel
ling errors corrected.
DANCE MUSIC  The Leo Alman 
ombo. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
FOR RENT  2 Squirrel Hill Apart
ments. 4 room; 3rd. floor. Stove and 
refrigerator. $72.50. March 1. Also, large 
2nd. floor on Murray. HA 1-9889.
Faculty or Graduate Students. Why not 
4 or 6 friends rent as your home May 1 
an unfurnished fine compact 13 room 
House, 3 baths, porch, yard, garage, for 
one year, $192.50 monthly, utilities extra. 
Darlington Road near Murray Squirrel ( 
Hill. Within walking distance Tech near 
64-67 cars,; 68-69 Buses. HAzel 1-3745.
