JUNIOR PROM 
TICKET SALE 
STARTS TODAY
I_______
BASKET BALL 
CARNEGIE VERSUS 
MIDDLEBURG TONIGHT
VOL. XVII. NO. 14CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1923
DR. THURSTONE 
GRANTED LEAVE 
OF ABSENCE
MEMBERS OF PSYCHOLOGY
DEPT. AT A. P. A. MEETING
Takes Charge of Newly Or
ganized Bureau of Person
nel Administration at Capi
tol
| Five members of the Carnegie Tech 
j Psychology Department attended the 
i meetings o the American Psychoj logical Association in Cambridge. 
Massachusetts, December 27, 2S and 
29. Drs. Yoakum, Bingham and 
Thurstone were on the program. Dr. 
Schoen and Miss Gwinn also attendALL INDUSTRIES 
MEN MUST GO 
TO ASSEMBLIES
MUSIC DEPARTMENT WILL 
GIVE RECITAL ON SUNDAY
JAN. 7, IN ARTS THEATER
DEVISED MANY TESTS
Dr. L. L. Thurstone, head of the 
Department of Education and Psy
chology, was 'recently granted a leave 
of absence for six months in order 
that he could accept the position of 
Director of Research in the newly or
ganized government Bureau of Per
sonnel Administration at Washington,
D. C. Dr. Thurstone took up his new 
duties on January first.
. During the time Dr. Thurstone had 
been connected with Carnegie Tech, 
he devised the Psychology tests which 
are so well known to all Plebes and 
which have been adopted by many 
otherinstitutions of the country. 
Through the' medium of these tests 
the name of Carnegie Tech has been 
carried to many parts of the country, 
and the school has become a leader 
in Psychology work 9f this type.
Dr. Thurstone was selected for the
 new position becaue-3 of his wide ex
perience and work in this field. One 
of his recent investigations was a 
study of the Detroit and Cleveland 
police departments, made at the re
quest of the respective municipal gov
ernments. 
He is a graduate of Cornell Uni
versity and was awarded his degree 
of Doctor of Philosophy at Chicago 
University in 1917. After two years' 
service as Instructor in Mathematics 
at Minnesota, he came to Carnegie 
Tech in 1913.
According to Dr. Thurstone the first 
important work to be undertaken by 
the new bureau will be a study of the 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Dr. L. S. Rowe Speaker 
At General Assembly
Tells of Important. Part the 
Engineer. Plays in Politics
Dr. Leo S. Rowe, Director General 
of the Pan-American Union, was the 
speaker at the last General Assembly.
Dr. Rowes speech dealt with the 
part America must play in foreign af
fairs, particularly as applied to the 
South American countries, and the 
aid which our future citizens will 
have to give their country.
It is the American engineer, he 
said, rather than the American dip
lomat, who typifies the United States 
in foreign countries. The engineer 
comes into contact with the common 
people, and our engineers are noted 
for, the interest which they take in 
improving the working condition of 
their employes and setting new stand
ards of living for them, as well as 
attending to the purely technical 
work.
Upon the conclusion of Dr. Rowes 
talk,'The Tartan Entertainers ren
dered a few lively numbers, and the 
band played the Alma Mater.
NEW THISTLE CAMPAIGN 
TO BE STARTED AT ONCE
The publishers of the Thistle have 
informed tjie board that they must 
know how many copies are to be 
printed not later than February 1, 
1923. As only seven hundred and 
fifty copies have been sold to the stu
dent body, it is necessary to have a 
final campaign at once. The sale will 
start within the next two weeks and 
will last for five days.
The price of the book is 4.50. The 
full price can be paid or a deposit of 
$2.50 will be accepted. The balance 
in case of a partial payment, to be 
paid upon the delivery of the books.
Fraternities will be given the glos
sies for their engravings within a 
very few days. They are requested 
to mount them and return the com
pleted work to the Thistle board on 
the date requested. Prompt action 
will facilitate the work of the editor.
NEW BULLETIN BOARD
REGULATIONS APPROVED
BY EXECUTIVE BOARD
1. No notices shall be placed on 
the bulletin boards except by the man 
in charge. He will call at the office of 
the Dean of Men daily at 12:30 for 
material left there for posting. An 
exception to this rule is made where 
a notice concerns the students of one 
college only. These need not be de
livered to the Deans office, but can 
be posted on the one board concerned 
by the organization interested.
2. No notice shall be larger than 
12x16 inches, and must carry in the 
lower left corner the date to be post
ed and the date to be removed.
3. Permission must be secured 
from the Dean of. Men for posters 
larger than 12x1 G, or for any posting 
on the campus other than on the reg
ular boards.
4. No notices, in any event, shall 
be tacked on trees or telephone poles.
5. In order to help make the 
(Continued on Page Three.)
COMMONS IS NOW 
OPEN FOR SERVICE
Miss Woodward. Manager, 
and Miss Smith, Supervisor, 
Promise Changes
The Commonsfor thus the Bean
ery is now officially designated  is 
again open with Miss Woodward at 
the managerial end and Miss Smith 
of cafeteria fame, as supervisor, to 
say nothing of the architectural and 
structural changes wrought during 
the holidays. .
Miss Smith is well known through 
her work in the Institute and Mar
garet Morrison cafeteria. Miss Wood
ward is from Simmons College and 
was dietitian in a Connecticut sanita
rium before coming here. She deals 
with the present only, however, and 
is willing to stake her reputation on 
her accomplishments here, promising 
to make the beanery a mere dim, 
unpleasant memory of the past. -
For improvements in the building 
we are indebted to Messrs. Hornbostel, Orbin and Fairley, who designed 
and supervised the work. N,o longer 
must we slop through the mud to get 
our noon-day plate of beans but now 
a genuine concrete walk guides our 
footsteps, not into a cold, barn-like 
factory building, but into a big room 
painted with the yellow and brown 
colors of autumn and at the large 
many-paned windows, curtains flutter 
like the heart of a Plebe'when he flrst 
hears the cry Socks!
Even further improvements are con
templated to make the Commons 
more homelike and pleasant. Food 
and prices will be changed as time 
progresses and the Commons shall 
be managed for the benefit of the stu
dents.
As formerly managed, the deriva
tion of the name beanery is only 
too evident. Thus must be credited 
to vain hope of making a profit. Now, 
however, it is proposed to operate it 
similarly to other college Commons, 
as a gathering and eating place for 
students, operated for their mutual 
benefit. With this purpose in mind 
not only are the interests of the stu
dent promoted but Carnegie Tech 
takes another step towards recogni
tion as the leading technical school of 
the country.
New Arc-Welding Outfit 
For Plumbing Department
A new arc-welding outfit, which has 
been donated by the Westinghouse 
Company, will be installed in the De
partment of Heating and Ventilating 
in the near future, and will broaden 
the work of that department consid
erably.
The department has for some time 
specialized on oxy-acetylene processes 
but it was realized that instruction in 
electric welding should be incorporat
ed in the course. The work thus car
ried on at Carnegie Tech was brought 
to the attention of the Westinghouse 
officials, who after due consideration 
presented one of their improved arcwelding outfits to the school.
CHEMISTS CLUB PLANNING
TO HOLD MID-WINTER DANCE
The Carnegie Chemists Club, which 
was recently reorganized, held a short 
meeting Thursday noon, December 12,
1922. A number of committees were 
appointed to take care of the social 
business for the coming season. The 
club is planning a dance, to which 
all members are looking forward.
Th Carnegie Chemists Club is an 
organization consisting of practically 
all students in the Chemistry and 
Chemical Engineering courses. The 
purpose of the club is to promote a 
good fellowship and professional spir
it among the students of these 
courses.
The officers are: D. M. Gray, presi
dent; R. A. Briggs, vice president; 
C. F. Mason, secretary; F. W. Fencil, 
treasurer; F. H. Trembly, assistant 
treasurer.
The following are members of the 
club: I. Abbot, A. Boucek, A. Brown, 
R. Briggs, Boeschenbossel, W. P. Bittler, Barlow, E. A. Cohen, A. Carter, H. 
R. Collard, J. M. Dasclibach, W. B. 
Dryden, J. C. Funkhuser, F. W. Fen(Continued on Page Two.)
Congressman S. D. Fess Will 
Speak at General Assembly
Simeon D. Fess, congressman and 
former educator, will speak to the 
student body at the next General As
sembly in the Music Hall on January 
10.
Mr. Fess was elected to the Sixtythird Congress from his home dis
trict in Ohio, and has recently been 
elected to the Senate.
He should have some interesting in
formation for all of us, and we would 
like to see a better attendance than 
at the last Assembly. We also feel 
that Doctor Baker is to be congratu
lated on securing such fine speakers 
for the student body.
Industries Senate Acts to In
crease AttendanceRoll of 
All Classes Will be Taken 
At All Meetings
TO BEGIN NEXT TRM
Acting on the suggestion of Dean 
Morris, the Industries Senate held a 
meeting before the Christmas holi
days and adopted a policy which will 
be presented to the student body in 
case the attendance at the assem
blies is not improved before the 
opening of .the second semester.
A roll of those present was taken 
at one of the recent assemblies and 
it was found that the assemblies 
have been supported by only a few 
of the men enrolled in the college.
The new plan as outlined will 
make attendance at three-fourths of 
the scheduled assemblies and class 
meetings compulsory, for graduation. 
The first, and third Wednesdays of 
each month 'will be reserved for the 
regular assemblies of the individual 
colleges. The second Wednesday will 
be reserved for the general assem
blies, while on the fourth Wednes
day of each month, the various class
es will hold class meetings. Attend
ance at all assemblies and meetings 
will be compulsory, the secretary be
ing, required to take the roll.
The advantages of the new plan 
are self-evident. Interest in the 
school as a whole and in the various 
class activities would be greatly in
creased, as there would no longer be 
cause for the popular method of al
lowing! only a. few members of the 
class to carry out and plan all the 
(Continued on Page Four.)
NOTED ACTORS VISIT 
DRAA\A DEPARTMENT
The following program has been ar
ranged by the Department of Music 
for a recital to lie given Sunday, January 7, at S:15 p. m.
1. Grieg. String Quartet, Op. 27
First Movement 
Henry Hary. A} I on Smith. Edward 
Stribrny, | Joe Replogle
2. Beetlioveu. Piano Concerto No. 4,
in G majorFirst Movement, 
with Cadenza by Dohnauyi 
Gertrude Robinson Dodds
3. Tchaikovsky. Ye Who Have
Yearned Alone
Eleanor Mecklenburg,
Cello Obligato, Joe Replogle 
to, Joe Replogle
4. Grieg. Piano Concerto in A Minor
First Movement
Helen Belle Johnsqn
5. Franck. Piano Quintet, in F minor
First Movement 
Oscar L. Helfenbein, Max Silverman, 
Marie Ivleyle; Francis Kleyle, 
Dorothy Trombley 
Accompanist, Matthew N. Frey 
A program of ultra-modern music 
will be given on Sunday, January 21, 
1923, at S:15 p. in.
INTERESTING FILMS 
TO BE SHOWN SOON
Electrochemistry Lectures to 
be Illustrated By Moving 
Pictures
Evidence that the Department of 
Drama here is highly recognized in 
theatrical circles is. shown by the in
terest of a number of well known pro
fessional guests who have visited the 
department during the past year.
Probably the most prominent 
actress was Miss Elsie Ferguson, who 
this season occupies a leading role 
in the Wheel of Life. She com
mended the work of the students and 
explainod that she had attained her | 
success by constant work and study I 
on all phases of her chosen profes
sion. She also stated that 'even to -1 
day her spare time is given largely to 
an intense study of tho finer points 
of drama as well as the various other 
branches of Fine Arts. Miss Fergu
son was accompanied by Frederic Woclock, Irley Marshall, and Eric Cowley 
of the same company.
From the various companies playing 
in Pittsburgh this season have come 
numerous other visitors. Among 
these have been Gerald Staupt from 
Listening In; Mabel Moore of tho 
Hampden Company; Elizabeth Patter
son from The Painted Lacly; and 
Helen Forrest, Nick Long, Robert 
Harfiish, Katherine Corey and Louis 
Hartman from Sally, which recent
ly closed an engagement at the Nixon 
Theater. Barbara Kltson, Doris I-Iaslett, and Edwin H. Morse of the 
Dover Road Company; and Joseph 
Schildkraut, Eva Le Gallienne, W. 
Franklin Mulligan, Elise Bartlett, 
Rose Hobert, John Crump.and Philip 
Wood from Liliom have also been 
guests of the College of Fine Arts.
Early in the year Miss Billie Burke 
was a visitor and was accorded the 
hospitality of the students of the De
partment of Drama as were other 
such celebrities as Sam Hume, Peggy 
Wood, Roland Young, Ruth Gillmore, 
Marjorie Kummer, Laura Hope Crews, 
Dudley Digges, Louise Closser Hale, 
Carroll McComas, Glenn Hunter, Al
fred Lunt, Helen Shipman, Arnold1 
Lucy and R6lls Peters.
Mr. Turnock, of the College of En
gineering, has laeen able to secure 
some very excellent films for all 
those interested in the subject of 
Electrochemistry. . On January 11, a 
film dealing with the construction and 
maintenance of dry colls will bo 
shown at the regular meeting of tho 
A. I. E. E. This film is authentic, and 
deals with actual conditions; it is 
highly instructive ana no student can 
afford to miss it.
At 7:30 p. m., on Tuesday, January 
1G, three reels of film, covering the 
subject of storage battery manufac
turing and applications will bo shown 
in Room 21S, Science. Mr. R. A. Whet
stone, manager of the Pittsburgh Dis
trict for tho Electric Storage Battory, 
Company, will speak in connection 
with tho pictures. Thiw program in of 
interest to all chemical enginoors as 
well as electrical engineers, and it is 
hoped that both classes will avail 
themselves of tho opportunity to hear 
a speaker,, who is intimately con
nected with the industry and will bo 
able to give many pointers that may 
help a bit in tho coming examinations. 
Both programs will be given In Room 
218, Science, at 7:30 p. m. sharp.
THISTLE BILLS MUST
BE PAID BY JANUARY 15
Bills have been sent or are being 
sent tho first of tills week to all or
ganizations that liavo had tholr pic
tures taken for the 1923 Thistle.
On the fif.teonth of this month, these 
pictures will be sent to the engraver 
so that ho may do his. work before 
they are finally sont to the: printer. 
Inasmuch as the book is to bo in the 
hands of tho subscribers by tho Eus* 
ter vacation there is no time to bo 
lost.
Also, due to tho fact that some of 
the organizations having pictures in 
last years book have not yet paid for 
same, the board has decided that 
any organization not having Its bill 
paid on the fifteenth of January will 
not have its picture published in the 
1923 Thistle.
Make all checks payable kto Vin
cent A. Roy, Treasurer, Carnegie Tech 
Postoffice, care Thistle Board.
PROF. ELY ELECTED CHAIRMAN 
OF LOCAL A. S. M. E. DELEGATES
Sumner B. Ely, Assistant Professor 
of Commercial Engineering who at
tended the convention of the Ameri
can Society of Mechanical Engineers 
in New York last week has been 
chosen chairman of the Conference of 
Local Sections Delegates.
A.I.E.E. TO HOLD 
FIRST MEETING 
OF 1923 JAN. 11
Mr. Thomas Pitzer, of West 
Penn Power Company, 
Will Speak on the Subject 
of Meters. Films to be 
Shown
MEETING OPEN TO ALL
On Thursday, January 11, 1923, the 
A. I. E. E. will hold the first meeting 
of the new year at Room 21S, Sci
ence. A good program has been ar
ranged and the time of meeting lias 
been set for 7:30 p. m. As a prelimi
nary to the big program, a film will be 
shown dealing with the construction 
and maintenance of dry cells. This 
is of special importance to those in
terested in Electro-chemistry. The 
speaker of the evening is Mr. Thomas 
Pitzer of tho West Penn Power Com
pany of this city. Mr. Pitzer has been 
with tho company for almost ten 
years and is now superintendent of 
Meters. Consequently Mr. Pitzer, 
who by the way is a graduate of West 
Virginia University, i$ peculiarly qual
ified to speak on the topic which lie 
has selected, namely Motors and Me
tering. In connection with this ad
dress three reels of film will be shown 
dealing with the construction and 
operation of meters of all kinds used 
in electric work. These films have 
been prepared by tho Sangnmo Elec
tric Company of Springfield, 111., In 
conjunction with tho United States 
Department of Commerce.
The meeting Is open to anyone in
terested in tho subject matter. Due 
to the big program tho preliminary 
film will start exactly at 7:30 and 
evoryono is roquostod to bo on hand 
at this hour.
LUTHERAN STUDENT 
HOUSE TO OPEN .IAN. 5
The first Studont IIouso of Its kind 
for this section of tho country will bo 
opened at Bayard and DltliiidgO 
streets, In connection with a student 
reception Friday evening, January 
5th, 8 p. in. Tho wldo interest which 
this new student enterprise has 
arousod together with the fact that 
over 400 Lutheran students are ^ en
rolled at Pitt and Carnegie, assures 
a woll attended ovont, Acting Presi
dent; Baker and Dr. Bownmn will de
liver brlof addrosses and Rev, C. P. 
Harry of Philadelphia, National Stu
dent Secretary, will bring greetings 
from other universities. Thoro will 
be musical selections and readings 
and refreshments. After tho exer
cises tho house will bo open for in
spection.
Tho Studont House Is being opened, 
in ,ros*>onso to a demand for better 
studont housing, boarding and relig
ious inspiration. The house will bo 
usod as a place of residence for men 
students and In tho dining room both 
men and women will bo accommo
dated. Mon Is will bo sorvod dally dur
ing meal hours. Tho generous living 
room accommodations on tho first 
floor will serve as a gathering place 
for meetings and social fellowship. 
The building is of brick construction, 
18 rooms, 3 stories high and Is steam 
heated and electric lighted. Complete 
kitchen and dining room equipment 
has been installed and the house is 
attractively furnished. Mrs. Eliza
beth B. Shaw will be in charge.
Lutheran Student work hero dates 
back to 191*1. Without a church in 
the educational district and with stu
dents present from all sections of thr 
country the need for a community stu
dent center has been growing stead
ily. The Lutheran Church having 
been born in a university and Luth
eran students in Pittsburgh having 
given a particularly good account of 
themselves the churches (104 Luth(Continued on Page Four.)
REV. C. WALLACE PETTY
WILL SPEAK AT CHAPEL
At chapel next Thursday, the JUNI
C. Wallace Petty of the First Bap
tist Church, will bo tho speaker. 
Chapel will bo held at the regular 
time, it only lasts twenty minutes, 
and there is no reason why every
body should not be there.
SCALP AND BLADE 
DANCE IN UNION
Proceeds to be Devoted to 
Inter-Campus Activi
ties
BACK TO THE 8:30S
Friday evening, January fifth, tho 
Scalp and Blade, national honorary 
Buffalo fraternity, will hold its annual 
dance in the Union. All students are 
invited to attend. t
Tho dance lias always been a big af
fair and this year tho committee con
sisting of Douglas Schoerke, chair
man, Vernpn Olsen, and Herbert 
Morosfolder, are planning to have It 
bigger and better than ever.
The Scalp and Blade make it a 
practice to use the proceeds from 
tholr danoes for some useful cause 
around school that will be beneficial 
to tho student body as a whole. Last 
year the fraternity gave the hand
some intorfratornity basket ball cup. 
This was a very flno gift and one that 
was appreciated by ovoryone. This 
year thoro has, as yot, boon no deci
sion as to what would ho a suitable 
gift to the school, but thoro Is always 
something that is noodod, so that 
thoro Is little anxiety folt. Tho Seal]) 
and Blade would welcome any sug
gestions that aro to bo offered.
Tho committee has boon very for
tunate In gottlng one of tho favorite 
oveliostras around school. Tho Col
legiate Six will oifor tho music for 
the evening. In addition to tho usual 
six players there will bo an extra 
piano and Bill Hollands to slug, mak
ing olght pieces In all. It has boon 
quite a while since tho Collegiate Six 
has appeared on the campus and they 
are coming buck with a bang. Tho 
Scalp and Blade extends an Invitation 
to all students.
DR. BINGHAM ADDRESSES
DROOKLYN MANUFACTURERS
Dr. Bingham of the Psychology De
partment, spoke hoforo the Manufac
turers' lOonforonoq of tho Brooklyn 
Chamber of Commorco on Monday, 
December 20th.
Prizes Offered to Mininf; 
Students For Mine Report
Tho Mine Safety Appllancos Com
pany, iocatod In Chamber of Com
morco Building havo offered as a year
ly prize, an Aluminum Wolf Safety 
Lamp, to tho Senior mining studont 
who prepares the most thorough min
ing engineering report on a coal mine. j 
Tho lamp will bo engraved as follows:
Prosonted by Mine Safety Appli
ances Company to John Doe, Carneg
ie Institute of Technology, for best 
Mining Engineering Report, Class
1922.
A similar lamp ia offored as a year
ly prize to the second year coal min
ing student who propares the best 
composite report on inspection trips 
to neighboring coal mines. This lamp 
will bo engraved as follows:
Presented by Mine Safety Appli
ances Company to John Doe, Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, for best 
Composite Inspection Trip Report, 
Class 1922.
CHICAGO, NOTRE 
DAME, W.&JL AND 
PITT SCHEDULED
Word From Chicago Fore
casts Bright Season For 
Alonzo Stagg's Team. Few 
Men Lost By Graduation
SCHEDULE OUT SOON
Tho 1923 Carnegie Toch football 
scliedulo has not been entirely com
pleted, 'but it will probably be re
leased in time to be printed in next 
woelcs Tartan. At the present time 
four largo games have been placed 
on the grid schedule: Chicago Uni
versity at Stagg Field, Chicago, Oc
tober 13; W. &. J. at Little Washiugtoii, October 20; University of Pitts
burgh, October 27, and Notre Dame 
at Forbes Field, November 24.
The following lettor from Chicago 
University was received by tho 
Sporting Editor of The Tartan: 
Chicago, 111., Jan. 2.Although 
Coach 'Stagg will lose five sterling 
players through graduation prospects 
are good for another stroaig Maroon 
grid team next season. With many 
capable men coming up from the 
ranks of this years reserves, and 
with several of tho Freshmen aceg 
roady to don the varsity molosklns 
next fall, the "Old Man will have 
ample material with which to plug 
up the holes loft by graduation.
This years fast backfield remains 
practically unelumged by the loss of 
McM'nsf.ors and Strohmoior. Pyott, 
Harry Thomas and By lor will return 
to run the ends. With the rep'ort 
that Zorn will bo oligible, and with 
the certain roturn of John Thomas, 
tho fullback job will be well taken 
care of. Tho quarterback situation 
Is tho big problem confronting tho 
Old Man."
The lino will lose throe veteran 
(Continued on Pago Throe)
Junior Prom Prelim. 
Tickets Now on Sale
Total Cost of Tickets Will 
be $8.50
Tho salo of tlio Junior Prom prelim
inary tickets started this morning. 
Tho price in $1.50. All Juniors who 
have paid tholr elans duos will ho al
lowed $1.00 on the cost of tho ticket. 
The receipt for duos must bo .pro*
nted at Ilio timo of purchase. Tho 
pasteboards aro la tlio hands of tho 
fiootlon loaders of tlio two upper 
lassos.
Owing to an error, tho cost of tho 
Junior Prom was misstated In tho last 
Issue of The Tartan, The total cost 
wll ho $8.50. Tho preliminary ticket 
are $.'1.50, the filial ticket $5.00. Thin 
applies to both tho Sonlors and Ju
niors;
In order that tho final arrange
ments may ho made, tho committee 
requests that all-eligible students buy 
tho preliminary tlckots this week. No 
preference will bo shown and as soon 
as tho allotted number of tlckots havo 
boon sold, tho s/ilo will bo stopped. 
This Is necessary for tho number of. 
couples has boon limited to two hun
dred and fifty. It may ho Impossible 
to provide favors and dinners for 
those who have not purchased prelim* 
inary tickets, so no tickets will be 
sold at the door.
The Junior Prom is not' far distant. 
February 2 ends tho first semester 
and the Prom takes place , that even
ing. Every upper classman should 
got his ticket and do OU now.
R. O. T. C. Vindicates itself
By Sensational Capture
Some acquire glory and some have 
glory thrust upon them. Rarely do 
we have an opportunity to experience 
more delight than when we realize 
that right in our midst we have a 
real honest-to-gosh hero, of whom we 
had hitherto been ignorant. Such, 
gentle reader, is our present predica
ment. We have right here in our 
midst a whole set of them. Self-ag
grandizement has never been the pol
icy of the R, O. T. C., as has been 
the case with many more no more de
serving bodies on the campus, Si
lence has been an outstanding char
acteristic of this loyal body, and it is 
impossible to allow to pass unnoticed 
their most recent achievement in 
wjifch they once again have demon
strated their integrity as a military 
body, and their unswerving devotion 
to an Ideal. They have proved them
selves to be true soldiers beyond the 
admission of a doubt, by the capture 
of an enemy spy that had been proven 
a menace to tho welfare of all Toch 
students, and whoso lair was on the 
very campus,' if, after having soon 
thorn drilling, there had been tho 
least vestige of any doubt existing In 
the minds of any of us concerning the 
efficiency of the R. O. 'I'. C. wo aro 
sure that it/ will; quickly vanish, before 
this glorious act of heroic self-sacri
fice.
The general In command of the 
Wednesday army, which is composed 
of Sophomores working out their sen
tences, received a Pittsburgh Dis
patch just before drill time, warning
him of an enemy spy, alleged to be 
maneuvering near the headquarters 
of the army on the campus. As it 
was judge.d that he was probably try
ing to get information about the chow 
to be served in Commons, a trap was 
accordingly set for the purpose of 
snaring the enemy observer.
Methods of attack were discussed 
and it was finally decided that the 
most advantageous move would bo a 
flanking movement on the spot of his 
supposed lair. The command of right 
front into line was given anil the 
march upom the enemy proceeded. 
The latter was not aware of their ap
proach until tho army was so very 
neor that the only real moans of es
cape was In tho direction of what for
merly was tho Beanery,
But tho spy was not so easily 
saved from tho vindicative army, as 
two stalwart embryo officers tore up 
tho rear end of lho paint shop and 
succeeded in capturing him. With 
dauntless courage, one oil theso gal
lant young officers fearlessly caught 
hold of him, and pulled him out by 
a long pair of oars. Tho culprit was 
no other than a jack rabbit from 
Sohonlcy Park.
Tho. prisoner twisted, squirmed and 
kicked but his stalwart captors were 
not easily fooled and try nB ho would, 
his efforts at escape proved fruitless. 
Tlio valiant officers carried him away 
to a military trial behind closed 
doors, and we feel sure that the pris
oner was dealt with firmness and 
that he received his just deserts.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1923
'
Published every week by undergraduates of tho Carnegio Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Enterod in tho Postonico of Pittsburgh as gecond-clasB matter. ____
TelephoneHiland 858.
TelephoneSchenley 5)211
TelephoneSchenloy
TelephoneSchenley 0148
TelophoneHazol 9898
H. II. WILSON ....
R. I. HAY ................
It. B. KELLER-----
TelephoneHazel 9422 
Telophono-r-Hazol 9850
............Athletic Editor
.............. Photographor
.... Exchange Editor
T. S. REPPLIER .. 
J. K. MATTER .................................................;........................ Special. Writer
........... Special Writer
Life Insurance
Students Graduate
J. M. COOPER . 
J. C. MAJOR ..
TelephoneSchenley 9211 
TelephoneSchenley 0102
Advertising Manager 
.. Circulation Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P C. McKenzie, L. Her I//, mai), M. S. Dow non, F. C. SmRli, L. Byerly, W. 
K. Sheppard, F. I). Rossini, W. Winning, F. T. Pholps, Catherine MoyorB.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
II, J. McCormlclc, J. A. Borno, E. C. Frazier, J. II. Ferguson.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. SowerB, W. B, Cunningham, P. F, Schuckor, T. J. DompBoy, J. B. 
Laudig, I). RUOPMUTJCK J. W. Metro, P. W. Reilly, R. R. Yonng and II. Glbflon.
The Editor-In-Chief EO responsible for the policy of this paper; 
Managing Editor for tlio make up. ___
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withhold If desired. All nows Items must be in tho studont
postoillce before 4: 10 Friday. ______________
Tartan OillceRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office hoursTuesday, 
11: JO to 1:00, Wodnosday, 12:00 to 1:00. __________
A NEW CARNEGIE STADIUM
Well, did you get caught up in your
pop renewed, and 
maybe we'll be
Saw a boy yesterday who counted 
e minutes 'til he got home during 
o week before vacation. Was sick 
Pittsburgh. When he came back 
to Carnegie yesterday, he was just 
ut ten time as glad to got back 
ie was to leave. Dont know what 
it is, but it gets in the blood. Didn't 
you feel the same way?
Why is it that the students of Car
negie are the last to get tickets to the 
plays put on in the College of Fine 
Aijts? It is true that wo can go to 
the Friday afternoon matinees, but 
we want the tickets for tho parents 
and friends. These people should get 
some consideration us well as the fac
ulty and tho peoplo who have friends 
among tho powers that be. It wouldn't 
be so bad if it only happened once or 
twice, but it is the same every time 
that a good play Is acted. All the 
tickets are gone before anyone seems 
to get them. How about it?
Many States and Companies 
Are Represented
I-Iow about including the plans for 
the Senior fence in the plans for the 
new gym. Wo are promised that it 
will be started around the first of the 
year, and if the fence is In the spec
ifications, maybe we would get a rest
ing place for tho overworked Seniors 
to use after the grueling grind of a 
day's labor.
A stadium committee has been, appointed and will be announced 
soon. This is the first definite step towards an amphitheater for our 
athletic contests. Some schcmc will probably be worked out where
by the cost will be spread over a long period oi! time and the propo
sition be carried by money returned by attendance receipts. How
ever, appointing this committee is a step forward in the advance
ment of Carnegie and local athletics. This body can feel assured that 
the alumni and students are heartily in accord with everything that 
is done to realize and achieve this new objective.
A COLLEGE EDUCATION BY RADIO
A college degree by radio, this will, be a reality in the near 
future according to The National Radio Chamber of Commerce. 
Radio offers a wonderful opportunity for Carnegie to establish ex
tension courses and thereby enabling thousands of ambitious young 
men in the Pittsburgh district and vicinity to take advantage of our 
night courses'. Lectures can be broadcasted by having a microphone 
in the classroom when the instructor is talking to his class; this 
would not interfere with the regular scheduled work. Also regular 
registered night students could rcccivc some oi! their instruction at 
home and thus saving many hours oi! time that is lost cn route to 
school.Many other educational institutions arc taking steps to estab
lish radio instruction and perhaps this new moans ol! communica
tion will dovelop into tho groatost propagator of knowledge yot dis
covered; far greater than the motion picture, or printing press. By 
tho far-reaching scope of radio the average intelligence ol! tho world 
may bo advaneod a hundred old> the nation's educators may be 
brought to our home by tlieir lectures; moro than that, we may listen 
to the great teachers of the world without leaving our own easy 
ehai r.
Before long every well-equipped institution ol! learning will 
broadcast knowlodgo and undoubtedly Carnegie will bo among tho 
pionoers. _'
After youve spent the week before 
Christmas sorting mail or slinging 
trunks in a vain attempt at trying to 
earn enough to live on the next week 
and after you havo spent your few 
slieckles to send Christmas greetings, 
you wake up on Christmas morning 
and are confronted with tho thought 
that you have no place to eat a 
Christmas dinner. You hasten into 
your clothes and hurry to some Greek 
joint and order bacon and eggs. Yes, 
for your Christmas dinner.
And to make matters worse, when 
you loaVe tho restaurant ttomeone 
yells "Merry Christmas. Bah, 
Merry -------!
One East Liberty merchant ex
pressed tho wish that he would like 
to have Christmas come every two 
weeks. Anyone who spends the holi
day in Pittsburgh is undoubtedly sat
isfied with the annual occurrence of 
Christmas.
Student Calendar
WBDNKSDAY, JANUARY II
Basket Ball -Carnegie vs. Middlobury.............................................Mere
FRIDAY, JANUARY fi
Dance Scalp and Blade........................................!):0(), Carnegio Union
SAT UHI.)AY, JANUARY (i
Dauco -Ohom Club (Tentative)............................9s00, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, JANUARY .1:)
Dance - Musical Clubs.............................................!>:()(), Carnegie Union
.SATURDAY, JANUARY 20 
Dunce...Carnegie Tech Dormitories (Tentative), 9:00 Carnegio Union
ART AND THE ENGINEER
In class not long ago some students 
were discussing with me the compre
hensive question, What's wrong with 
the world. Now to, some it .night 
seem that this was a question for the 
oldest and maturest minds only, but 
to me it seemed that if young men 
in the first flush of enthusiasm could 
not discuss it, no one else would and 
if the answer which these young men 
gave was not wholly new, it was 
something better than newit was 
sound. The answer which they gave 
was "Greed.
If, said these students, after a cen
tury of unexampled progross, in sci
ence and invention, the world is not 
so much better off than it was before; 
if in spite of a thousand time-saving 
devices, man is rushed, as he was 
nover rushed before; if unexampled 
1 production has not abolished want and 
has. even decreased quality; if the 
printing press, tho moving pieturo ma
chine, and the radio, havo meant too 
often not the sproading of light, but 
tho sproading of nonsonso; thon the 
fault lies not with tho scientists who 
in von tod tho machines, but with tho 
moil who put thorn to work, with tho 
otornal wrongness of thoso who havo 
asked not how can thoso things give 
tho most benefit to mankind, but how 
can they produce tho most money for 
us?
To somo of tho studont It, Boomed 
that the situation was unroasonabland that in spito of all that could be 
done man would always think first 
of himself and would prefer selfish 
ends to knowledge and power given 
to the world. But others sought deep
er and aslced: "Where is greed found? 
Is it found in tlio laboratory where 
the scientist is bent upon the search
ing out of Natures secrets or in the 
studio where the artist is at work 
with liis mind upon the secrets of 
beautj? And the answer was, no! 
Prom this it would seem that when an 
interest in truth or beauty for its 
own sake takes hold, greed flies. The
not think much about money for tho 
simple reason that they havo moro 
important things to think about.
On.the basis of those facts, tlion, I 
make a ploa to tho engineerto tho 
practical manfor thoso "impractic
al things pure science, philosophy, 
and art. Tho most dangerous man to 
society is'the man who can measure 
things only in terms of monoy. Give 
a man an interest in abstract truth 
or abstract beauty, make him lose the 
true or the beautiful for its own sake 
and you give him a new standard of 
values. When you make him see that 
there are things which cannot be 
measured in dollars, which are incom
mensurable with money you have 
done a very practical tiling; SAUL have 
made it impossible for him to be 
greedy as men who have only the dol
lar standard can be greedy.The 
Polytechnic Reporter.
Roamer has a few ideas on an AllWestern Pennsylvania team:
End...........
'Packle ...
Guard.........
Center
Guard.........
Tackle ...
End.............
Quarter... 
Halfback . 
Halfback..
First Team.
... Pottor ...........Carnelo
Wiedorqulst . .Wash-.Toff 
Bodonlr ...Penn Stato
____Pittsburgh
... .Pittsburgh 
. .Carnegie
. Bowser 
.. Sack .
. Sprinklo 
,.. TCopf ... 
Robertson 
. Erickson . 
Anderson .
Fullback........... Hewitt .,
Second Team.
End....................... Goddon ..
'Pacido........... McMahon .
Guard....... Comfort .
Center................. Irwin ...
Guard............................ Vinco
'Packle...... Courloy .
End..........
Quarter..., 
Halfback . 
Halfback.. 
Fullback..
. Williams . 
... Palm ... 
..Bronkort .
. Anderson . 
Brumbaugh
.. Wash-JolT 
... Carnegie 
. .Wash-.Toff 
. Pittsburgh 
.Pittsburgh
.. Carnegie 
Penn Stato 
.. .Carnegie 
.. .Carnegie 
.. Wnsh-.lol 
. Pittsburgh 
, Pittsburgh 
, .Penn State 
. .Wash-Joff 
,.. Ca/rnogio 
.. .Carnegie
A claBB of thirty-six students, In
cluding Boven residents of the Pitts
burgh district, was graduated this De
cember 15, from the School of Life 
Insurance Salesmanship at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. The exer
cises for this, the eleventh clasB to 
leave tho Institute since tho school 
was organized, were held in the lec
ture hall of the school.
Local residents in the class were: 
W. G. G. Bon way, of the, Union Cen
tral Company; Martha It. Houser, of 
Continental Casualty Company; Har
old B. Tresster and Philip O. Davis, 
of the Equitable Life Assurance Com
pany, all of Pittsburgh; Clarence E, 
Kann, of the Equitable Life, Swissvale; William K. Weaver, of the 
Aetna Life Company, Wilkinsburg, 
and Mrs. Louise S. Williams, of the 
Equitable Life, Munliall.
The entire class represented fifteen 
states and one Canadian province, and 
eighteen different insurance compa
nies.
Following a new procedure, inaug
urated a year ago, temporary certifi
cates were presented to each gradu
ate, the certificates to be exchanged 
after about a year, providing the stu
dent has fulfilled certain require
ments in the field of his work. The 
requirements, based upon his work in 
the class, usually specify that the 
student shall either underwrite $100,- 
000 worth of insurance or underwrite 
thirty-five lives. If he goes into work 
other than soliciting he must present 
proof that he has completed a years 
satisfactory service to his employers.
The class was addressed at the 
graduation exercises by Dr. Thomas 
Baker, Acting President; Dr. W. 
V. Bingham, Director of the Division 
of Co-operative Research; Charles J. 
Rockwell, Director of the School of 
Life Insurance Salesmanship; and Dr. 
E. E. Strong and C. A. Hollingsworth, 
of the faculty of the school.
The members of the class, in addition 
to the local students mentioned above, 
were: Wm. E. Chipman, Jr., Mifflinburg, Pa,; Howard R. Dean, Mars, Pa. 
E. DeLoss Doty, Findlay, Ohio; Paul 
E. Green, Anna, 111.; J. M. Hamilton, 
Atchison, Kans.; Kirby T. Hart, 
Goldsboro, N. C.; Harry G. Howiclc, 
Grand Rapids1, Midi.; J. E. Hulls, 
Hamilton, Canada; Joseph E. John
son, Saginaw, Mich.; Howard A. Ken
yon, Providence, R. I.; Harman H. 
Kerr, Blaine, W.Va.; E. iC. Kyle, Staun
ton, Va.; Meade E. Larsen, Minneapo
lis, Minn; M. R. Lawson, Grafton, W, 
Va.; Robert Loebe, Cleveland, Ohio 
Lieber W. Martyn, Rochester, N. Y. 
Harold M. Morrey, Washington, D. C. 
Hugh D. McFaddin, Rockville, Ind. 
Walter C. McNeal, Rochester, N. Y. 
LeRoy E. lliploy, Alma, W. Va.; J. B. 
Salinger, Johnstown, Pa.; George L 
S'auer, Indianapolis, Ind.; Clarence S. 
Schaefer, Buffalo, N. Y.; G. P. Sheffer 
Van, Pa.; Clifford Thorne, Tulsa, 
Okla.; S. W. Towson, York, Pa.; Fer
ris Tyndall, Philadelphia, Pa,; F. A, 
Van Sant, Madison, Wis.; Herman A, 
Zisclike, I-Iorican,' Wis.
To somo p'eoplo Now Year moans 
tho time to start lifo anew, a time to 
havo a little New Year celebration, 
or tlio time to make resolutions. To 
others it means the first of the month 
wlieh tho bills fall due, another year 
added to our ago.
Puzzle: Which is tlio cover for tlio 
last Puppetthe Arrow Collar Ad or 
tho Tea Dancers?
DR THURSTONE GRANTED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
(Continued from Page 1) 
best methods of selection, transfer, 
and promotion of public service em
ployes. Its field of work will touch 
the federal state and municipal employo systems which include a total 
of about throe million workors, of 
which six hundred thousand aro in 
tho federal sorvlco. In tho municipal 
governments this study will Include 
investigations of tho police and fire 
departments in order to arrive at tho 
host; methods of selecting tho host 
men for officers, on a basis of merit.
Other problems outlined and ap
proved for the Bureau by an Advisory 
Committee of live national civil serv
ice commissioners are: Selection,
transfer and promotion of skilled 
tradesmen, such as arsenal employes; 
selection, transfer and promotion of 
clerks; classification of tlio positions 
in public service; extension, wherever 
feasible, of tho use of psychological 
examinations and intelligence tests 
for various occupations; establish
ment of postal clerks and carriers 
tests; reorganization of training 
courses for federal employes; investi
gation of the best methods of rating 
tlie efficiency of employes in pubThe Bureau will also j be at
Speaking of All-American football 
teams Avhy not an All-Arts football 
team:
End ...... Joe Lazarus ...........Drama
Tackle'......... Rosenberg Architecture
Guard.............. Wycoff ...............Drama
Center.......... B. Ivalabich.........P. & I.
Guard..................Johnson...................Music
Tackle................ Burns .................Drama
End...... Uslan ..Architecture
Quarter.... Dale Smith Architecture
Ireland ...........P. & I.
Kendrick ..............Music
I-leppenstall ....P. & I.
Halfback------
Halfback____
FullbackG...
What would be funnier than a game 
in which this team played. Has any
one a few suggestions as to a suit
able coach for this team?
ROAMER.
NEW BOOKS AS SEEN BY STUDENTS ENJOY XA\AS 
ARTS SCHOOL STUDENT DINNER GIVEN BY Y.M.C.A.
LONG LIVE THE GOOD FELLOW
In a letter from Oswald III. the 
following is noted: "Suppose you
suggest, through the power of your 
column that tanking be stopped by 
an official notice, and that there be 
some consideration boforo hair-cut
ting is practiced,
Tho sad Incident last spring 
should remind tho Sopbomoros of 
what might happon to ouo of our 
own numbor and Oswald 111. express
es the opinion of many. As for haircuttingHoamer suggests it only in
Augustus Thomas' project for an 
American National Theater, in which 
Carnogloi Tech Is to havo a part, will 
prove a tremendous atop forward in 
tlio field of drama. This organizai 
tlon will not only Improve the presen
tation and seldction of plays, but it 
will glvo young men and women in
tending to take up acting as a pro
fession an aBsuranco of permanent 
employment, whlcii heretofore has 
been a very uncertain factor.
Mr. Samuel Harden Church, head of 
the Carnegie Institute, and a friend 
of Mr. Thomas, has said of the new 
plan: On the amateur side, a league 
of amateur clubs with amateur play 
ers, supported by organized paying 
members, would be formed. There 
would be at' least one club in each 
principal city of the United States, 
held together by the gift of two con
current successes from New York 
theaters, which the local stage man
agers of the individual clubs would 
be permitted to see before entering 
upon their own rehearsals. The ef
fect of this concurrent performance of 
the same plays all over the country,' 
with attention to the manner, and es
pecially to the diction of the New 
York production would result in a 
rapid Americanization of these wide
ly distributed elements and in an ap
proach to a correct standard of dic
tion. It would be inevitable that such 
a plan would produce a large output 
of talented amateurs from these or
ganizations, and the various city 
groups would be expected to provide 
for their tuition in dramatic conserv
atories attached to established educa
tional institutions like Columbia Uni
versity, the University of Wisconsin, 
the University of California, Carnegie 
Tech, and similar standard schools. 
Columbia University has already sig
nified its Avilliiignoss to take these 
dramatic students for the Senior year 
at that institution in New York, 
wlioro the young men and women 
would bo in touch with tho greatest 
theatrical activities and would have 
opportunities to soo plays and to par
ticipate in them as students. This last 
year In New Yovlc would not be nec
essary insofar as Carnegie Tech is 
concerned, as our school has alreadycase of necessity. If you cant 
put across what you want ln Nyords ' a complete course in dramatic instrucsometimes
medium.
lie service.
tlio hair proves a good 
ROAMER.
Earning.
What you havo inherited from your 
futliers you must earn for yourself be
fore you can call It yours.Goethe.
true scientist and the. true artist do | have charge, eventually, of the organ-, ton, D. C.
izing of new Civil Service Commission 
offices wherever established.
The home of the new bureau will! the new project-should prove a great 
~6 Jackson Building, Washing-1 aid to the advancement of our Dration.1
Groups of professional actors would 
also be formed, which would travel all 
over the country and present the best 
plays, particularly those of Shakes
peare.
Tho fact that our Department of 
Drama has been chosen as a repre
sentative of the National Theater 
shows that Carnegie Tech is fast 
gaining a reputation in art as well 
as in engineering, and if carried out,
A recent issue of the University of 
Delaware Review, dated February 22, 
contained the following editorial en
titled "The Good Fellow Mania. The 
University of Delaware Review is 
well known to us, known especially 
for the spice and practical sense of 
Its editorials. The theme of this 
one, however, touches a great many 
of us and touches us in a way which 
not a few of us will resent. Before 
making any comment on the "Good 
Fellow we are going to let you read 
this editors opinion of him:
.Most children contract the meas
les, or the mumps, but most children 
recover; most young people contract 
another rather peculiar disease, but 
few recover. This disease is of 
pathological nature, amounting at 
times almost to a mania, and is al
ways pathetic. To complicate mat
ters, the victim is never conscious of 
his affliction, and hence, in many 
cases, is incurable. No specific name 
has been given to the malady, but it 
is best designated as an insidious and 
overpowering desire on the part of 
the afflicted to be a good fellow, to 
be known to others as a good fellow, 
and to be shown to a host of other 
good fellows as simply Good old Bill
 "Jim.
The disease is best described by its 
manifestations, which are numerous 
and curious and to be seen daily on 
all sides. A certain student, out of 
the goodness of his heart, lends his 
French Grammar to another who has 
lost his, and goes to class, himself, 
unprepared. A day or so later the 
book is returned. "Sorry I keptyour 
book so long, old man. I hope you 
didnt need it. No, not at all. -Dont 
mention it. This same.student runs 
himself into debt to keep his Frater
nity Brothers and classmates in ciga
rettes, he gives up his seat at the 
basket ball game to the Senior who 
comes in late with a girl, he wastes 
his valuable time explaining the Bi
nomial Theorem to thick-skulled 
Freshmen, he lends his new overcoat 
and dancing shoes to his roommate, 
he assists at all social affairs and 
helps with the decorations, lie gets 
his name' on the rolls of all the clubs 
and societies, lie even gets drunk oc
casionally, he smiles sheepishly when 
someone jibes him about his amours, 
he plays a good hand at bridge, he 
dances, he makes his. room the ren
dezvous of his bosom cronies, and, 
above all, lie ever has a sympathetic 
ear and appropriate consolations for 
all hard luck stories. His friends call 
him Jim, good, old Jim. He writes 
homes for" extra allowances, and has 
frequent conferences with the Dean 
and consultations with his doctor (M. 
D.) He is a good fellow.
Most youths sooner or later have a 
touch of this disease. It comes on 
one much similar to, but a little later 
than, adolescence. But many never 
recover. They go on through life 
chiefly concerned with being known 
as good fellow. In time a few intel
ligent ones just naturally grow out 
of it, and then, like us, they dont 
give a damn.
Do you agree with that sentiment? 
Emphatically, we do not. Wo do not 
wish to get into a personal squabble 
with the editor of tho Delaware Re
view, in fact we do not wish to make 
it a personal matter at all. But we 
do wish to bring the Good Follow 
on trial before the students of Buclcn ell.
We must admit that the article 
shows a keen appreciation of condi
tions. Mr. Good Fellow is well known 
on every campus. But to call his con
dition a disease goes against the grain 
with us. Wo would rather call his at
titude a virtue and conclude that the 
"dont give a damn felloAV is af
flicted with a disease.
Our attitude toward the Good Fel
low depends upon our whole attitude 
toward life. Honesty is a virtue and 
honesty is the best policy, but the 
two are different. Honesty as hon
esty is a virtue but honesty as a pol
icy, as a mean toward being consid
ered honest'by others, is a sham. 
Just so the man who, as the author of 
that article characterizes him, "goes 
through life chiefly concerned with 
being known as a good fellow is a 
sham. The Good Fellow who is a 
good fellow by nature and who cannot 
be otherwise is the type we have in 
mind as we shout "Long live the Good 
Fellow!
Class the men of your acquaintance 
as Good Fellows and as those whom 
the writer says have just naturally 
grown out of the disease, and then 
join the class to which you would 
prefer to belong. The examples cited 
are extreme. The Good Fellow in
deed lends his Fraser and Squiar to 
a class mate, gives up liis seat at a 
basket ball game, explains theorems 
to the thickest of Freshmen, helps 
with all kinds of decorations, (we 
believe the sham Good Fellow gets 
drunk more frequently), and has a 
ready ear for every hard luck story. 
And the same spirit prompts him to 
carry meals to the fellow who is sick, 
to look after the foreign student who 
is frienc^loss and in trouble, and to 
do a thousand and one things for the 
fellow who is down whether he hap
pens tQ be a fraternity brother or 
not.
It is true that the Good Fellow 
sometimes suffers himself in conse
quence of his "disease. But our 
judgment of whether he really suffers 
depends on our attitude toward life. 
Turning to history, we can name you 
a list from Jesus of Nazareth to Gunga Din who would fall under the class 
of Good Fellqws and a list from Judas 
Iscariot to Wilhelm I-Iohenzollern 
who grew out of the disease.
And so we say, "Long live Jim, 
good old Jim, and long live the gen
uine Good Fellow.The Bucknellian.
The question of contemporary social{ While most of us were enjoying 
problems is ever before our eyes beour Christmas dinner at home, some 
ing treated by viewpoints of such | of us may have sent a thought to
writers as H. G. Wells or the column
ist in the colored feature section of 
the Sunday newspaper. Seldom howthose left stranded in Pittsburgh for 
the vacation because their respective 
homes were' not close enough to war*
ever, is the method of presentation ! rant their return for the holidays, and 
either inviting or stimulating. James | some of us may nave wondered how 
Harvey Robinson, formerly professor i they were faring. -It is a pleasure to 
of History in Columbia University and j report that the men were well taken 
P \rn. i care of, and while it is not claimednow one of the leaders in the New , . , ,, , ,. i that the Christmas which they had York School for 'Social Research, is i here was ag good as any tlley mjght
one of the' few individuals who has have had at home, yet Christmas was 
managed this difficult feat. | not the bore which it so often is to
The author does not look upon hisj those away from home.
tory as a pure science, ever to be 
alienated from all questions of prac
tical application to daily life, nor as a. 
dusty chronicle of past events. Rather 
does he regard it as "a study of how 
man has come to be as he is and to 
believe as he does. Robinson classi
fies the stages of the development of 
the human mind through four periods, 
animal, savage, child and civilized, 
and proceeds to demonstrate how 
even the most advanced among us
As had been announced 4n these 
columns, the Y. M. C. A. made ar
rangements with the Oakland Meth
odist Church whereby a free Christ
mas dinner was offered to those boys 
stranded here for the holidays. It 
cannot be too greatly appreciated 
that those in charge of this affair left 
their own homes for the evening in 
order that these boys should not go 
without at least some of the festivi
ties of Christmas. About twenty men
prove in our daily thought that these j from all over the world were assemstages are still present and manifest j hied around the table in the basement 
themselves as obstacles to that erej ^he church and all were in high
ative thought in the interest of which j spirits and did ample justice to the
the book is written. turkeys, cranberries, and all the rest
rr,, , ... . tt n  the Christmas dinner served. Af-The long history to which H. G.
Wells in his "Outlines, has devoted
j matic course.
two volumes, is here compressed into 
less than two hundred pages with 
rare conciseness. He dismisses with 
scant paragraphs the methods that 
have been used in the past in dealing 
with the problems of society and ex
presses his belief that the hope of the 
world consists in cultivating the hab
it of creative thought and on direct
ing it to those social questions which 
have to do with the relation of man 
to man and in which we have hither
to so conspicuously failed.
In his latest play Loyalities 
which has met witha marked suc
cess in both London and New York, 
John Galsworthy has placed his finger 
on one of the sore spots in the es
tablished order of tilings. Here, as 
a critic of the social caste system, he 
has attacked the evil of class preju
dice. Incidentally it is curious to note 
that in so doing he has been justly or 
unjustly accused by some as an antisemetic propagandist. The "loyali
ties of the title are the unwritten 
bonds which unite the members of the 
groups of which modern society is 
composed into a modern defense of 
their class interests and traditions.
In this instance on the bond of the 
inbred feeling of superiority, of fam
ily over wealth, is aggravated by re
ligious prejudice. The object of the 
play is the exhibition of the wealthyyoung Hebrew, the guest at a fash
ionable Gentile country house who 
has the misfortune to be robbed and 
who, upon sufficient grounds accuses 
one 'of his fellow guests. The for
mers conduct is justified throughout 
the play, as the innocent victim of 
blind and obstinate prejudice. The 
"loyalities existing with them the 
aristocratic circle are offended, are 
proved false, and consequently must 
be avenged. It is one of the best 
specimens of his dramatic workman
ship. It has breadth and keenness of 
observation, ingenuity of plot and 
above all, variety and truthfulness of 
characterization. Contrary to his 
usual marniert, Jtlie author refrains 
from enforcinghis moral by preach
ment. The dialogue is simple and 
direct. The ingenuity with which the 
plot is woven about the problem of the 
clash of class spirit.is a curious but 
happy instance of the technique of tho 
melodrama adapted to the ends of 
realistic social comedy.
Those of us who have had the 
pleasure of knowing John Hall Wlieelock's, The Human Fanatsy will 
welcome his latest volume of verse, 
"The Black Panther, (New York 
Scribners 19JK5). The Human Fan
tasy appeared in 1911 and was met 
Avith decidedly favorable comment, 
and its author was hailed as one of 
those few promising poets who were 
to carry on the work toward the ex
pression of newer conceptions of 
verse compositionin America. Un
fortunately, his power appeared to 
wane and with it his popularity. When 
after six years of silence, the appear
ance of his second volume Dust in 
Life, was regarded as a failure, it 
seemed that his star had set. How
ever with The Black Panther, 
Wheelock has come back and we 
hope to stay.
The author is a mystic and almost j 
all the poems contained in this volume 
are imbued with a spiritual ecstacy. 
Underlying the finely constructed 
form there is apparent a steady fer
vor, a depth and dignity that leads 
us to anticipate further and greater 
achievements by this brilliant but er
ratic' poet.
ter the meal, the men in turn stood 
up and expressed their appreciation 
of the efforts in their behalf. It was 
thus found that the crowd was quite 
cosmopolitan and so eachman stood 
up and sang or recited the national 
song of his homeland. Last of all the 
strains of the Star Spangled Banner 
sounded through the church. Rev. 
R. B. Callahan the student pastor of 
the Oakland church then made a 
short address recalling the meaning 
of all our festivities at this time, and 
several other speakers made short in
formal talks. Then the party broke 
up and adjourned to the hall where 
the Christmas tree had been placed. 
Presents were given out and hymns 
sung and all were in the mood which 
belongs to the season, namely that 
of fellowship and good will to men.
The writer thinks it fitting that we 
of the student body should here show 
our appreciation for the work done 
for those less fortunate than ourselves 
at the season thqt has just passed 
and so we here give thanks to those 
who have sponsored this movement 
and seen it through, it was a good 
work and well done.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ......... 9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class .............................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ..................... 7:00 P.M. j
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. : 
WELCOMEI TECH STUDENTS :
DY_BG VHYUAU.YX
Fifih Avenue Boot Shop
near 48th Street. New York 
Style shoes of quality.
Exhibit Shop Pittsburgh: 
JENKINS ARCADE
Students desiring to select attractive Christmas Greeting Cards, with or 
without name imprinted, Gift Novel 
ties, Pencils and guaranteed safety 
Fountain Pens, should go to Singer 
Pen and Gift Shop in Jenkins Arcade, 
Advertisement.
CHEMISTS CLUB PLANNING
TO HOLD MID-WINTER DANCE
(Continued from Page One) 
cil, D. M. Gray, Ginsberg, K. E. Gib
son, J. L. Harper, L. Hirscliman, F. 
Z. Hough, J. L. Holmquist, F. W. Henninger, W. A. Jaclco, C. W. James, 
M. T. Inman, J. W. Kelso. F. W. Klussman, H. Luft, A. M. Mallory, S. F. 
Marks, C. P. Marsden, C. F. Mason, 
Morenus, D. S. McKinney, E. S. McClintoclc, W. M. McConnell, A. Prey, 
R. Otter, Rhineliart, Richards, C. Iv. 
Rosenberger, F. W. Rossini, W. L. 
Shively, R. R. Sitzler, L. Silverman, 
J. Schimmell, F. IT. Trembly, J. M. 
Wedell, J. B. Whitman, A. L. Zinser.
Electric Toaster Stoves 
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANY 
4521 FORBES STREET 
Near Craig Street.
Phone Schenley 4545.
Auto Accessories. 
Electrical and Radio Supplies.
PLEASANT VOYAGE
Travelers find that our 
steamship service assures 
in great measure freedom 
from inconveniences 
which often times embar
rass those who may be 
unfamiliar with foreign 
conditions, money ex
change and credits.
Mellon National Bank
Oliver Jlue.& Smvthfield
m A
*
*
Aufhammer & Evans ^
Hats and Mens Furnishings ^
*
6100 PENN AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
GROUNDS FOR GYM 
IN HANDS OF SCHOOL
Work on Structure Expected 
to be Started Within a 
Month
The acquisition of the Steele property through its purchase by tlie trus
tees marks a new step towards the 
construction of the gym. The prop
erty is now actually in the hands of 
the school and the present tenants 
are preparing to leave.
The evacuation of the old red house 
which has so long been an eyesore on 
the campus, furnishes further food for 
thought. It is hardly worth reclaim
ing the timber and other materials, 
yet as a trustee suggested, it would 
make a good bonfire to celebrate the 
commencement of activities on the 
new gym.
The plans are still in Architect 
Hornbostels hands for completion. A 
rough plan was published in a pre
vious issue and the completed gym is 
illustrated above. The final details 
will soon be completed and it is hoped 
to break ground by next month.
The  gym which is the present of 
the Carnegie Corporation, has for the 
past two years been characterized by 
the uncertainty of its location and 
plans are usually rejected as soon as 
prepared. At last, however, hope ap
pears once more in the purchase of 
the ground.
FRATERNITY-DORMITORY 
BASKET BALL SCHEDULE
DIESGIN 05= THE IM SEW GYMNASIUMPlaid Basket Ball Team TENNIS ASSOCIATION 
Takes Trip to Middle West TO CONSIDER STADIUM
Courtesy Gazette Times.
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
Co-eds Start Intraj don to the interest shown by people 
I indirectly connected us well as diMural Basket Ball | Officers for this year are: Prosi| dent, Ray Fine; vice president, Helen 
secretaryMncruni; secretary and treasurer, Insignia and Sweaters to be Eleanor Wilt, and Design School rep| resentative, Francis Burrows. The Awarded I various sports are organized under.
one girl as a leader. The individual
At~ other institutions intra-mural athletics take in track and field meets, I seison under tb 141 riwJ P'orts and its head am:baseball, tennis, soccer and numerous sports. This extension of athletic I
competition brings more of the student body into activ interest and often j tiou of Miss Bowman
develops unknown material into real stars for the Varsity teams.
INTER-FRATERNITY ATHLETICS
Inter-Fraternity basket ball has become a permanent fixture at Carj 
negie Tech and is growing in interest and popularity with each new season, i
This winter Coach Beeler is planning for some fraternity track meets 
at the East Liberty armory. At some colleges, one or two events each 
week is the method of conducting the meets. The event that attracts the 
most interest is probably the relay race. Track ability does not depend on 
previous experience as much as it does on qualities of endurance and in
herent abilities, and so every one who has an ambition to run, jump, or throw 
the weights, should have a try at it. The Plaid has had good track teams in 
the past and should have still better ones in the future. With the indoor 
training this winter, such a prophecy should come true.
Last season, under the able direc-1 "'V7,I Rut.lv McDavid; basket ball,, Helen
S'1'!*5 | Macrum; lvockey, Nelle Burch; bowlbasjeet ball season was the most euc-iing, Mary Heilig; volley ball, Eleanor
the
1923 Interfraternity-Dormitory bas
ket ball promises to be even more ex
citing than the one last year in which 
Iota Sigma Delta carried away the 
handsome trophy cup, presented by 
the Scalp and Blade iS'ociety.
This year the twenty-three enter
ing teams will be divided into three 
leagues, American, National and Fed
eral. Each team -\vill play seven 
games in its own league and the 
teams having the highest percentage 
in each league will play-off until final 
eliminations are reached.
Rules governing the leagues will be 
as follows:
All games shall be played in Lang
ley Laboratory on date and time spec
ified.
Four games shall be played on each 
of the three evenings, Tuesday, Wed
nesday, and Thursday of each week.
If any games are postponed they 
must be played other than the three 
named evenings.
Teams are assigned to one or the 
other of the two courts in Langley 
Lab.
Results of each game shall be given 
to Mr. Davis at the Y. M. C. A. Club 
Room.
Further information may also be 
obtained from Mr. Davis, In whose 
hands the schedule will be placed.
CHICAGO, NOTRE
DAME, W. & J. AND
PITT SCHEDULED
OUR MAGGIE MURPHS
Are 'showing real Carnegie spirit by putting out another girls varsity 
basket ball team this winter. Last season they' made a good showing in 
spite of several defeats. With Miss Bowman back as coach and a number 
of veteran players of last year, they should do much to improve their pre
vious record. They are allowed to play only six games and so the girls 
will have to be on edge for every game if they intend to win a majority of 
them.
NEW YEAR RESOLUTIONS?
The Administration expects to start the new gymnasium some time 
in the near future.
The Dutch navy has agreed to junk all war ships until football season 
comes again. Pinochle is the new slogan according to the Admiral.
The Athletic Council has decided that there will be po baseball next 
spring because of the lack of a suitable diamond.
cessful of any previous one. It is 
expected that, witn me services of 
Miss Bowman again available, and 
the organization of the Womens 
Athletic Association of Carnegie In
stitute of Technology past the be
ginning period, another successful 
season will be had. Practices were 
held for two weeks preceding the
Reisnieyer; swimming, Eleanor Craverj tennis, Gertrude Lyons, and 
hiking, Marion Bond and Catherine 
Hodkinson.
The, point system of the associa
tion, leading to a Girls Carnegie 
C, is so arranged that points can 
be earned by partaking in any one of 
these branches of sports. With fifty 
points, a plain pin is awarded. For
Christinas vacation, and now that the seventy-five points, a pin with nuniervacation da,ys are over and the girls ai given, and ono hundred points 
are back, strenuous sessions will be 
held each afternoon in order to pre
pare for the games of the season 
ahead.
The Womens Athletic Association 
is composed of all women registered 
at Carnegie Tcch, and has for its 
purpose to organize the" women to 
participate in the seasons sports, to 
produce teams, create team co-oper
ation, stimulate inter-class athletic 
competition, and in general make 
athletics more universal among the
earns the Girls' Carnogie C and 
sweater. The only winners of this 
C" so far are: Isabelle Winner,
Helen Reed and Jean Eakin, all of 
whom were graduated last June. At 
the present time, Ruth Snyder, 
Eleanor 'Craver, Catherino 1-Iodlclnson, 
Gertrude Lyons and Helen Macrum 
lmvo 3eventiy-llve points to their 
credit, while Winifred Rice, Ruth 
Gleidert, Rny Fine,' Dorothea MacMinn and Miriam Bond have Ilft.y 
points.ATHLETIC CONVENTIONS
This period of the year seems to be rushed with various national athj Eirls. 
letic conventions. The American Football Coaches Association held its It was founded on a spirit of I NEW BULLETIN BOARD
annual meeting, and through it they feel that much was accomplished to-: wholesome fun, and real sportsmanREGULATIONS APPROVED
ward furthering fair play, good sportsmanship and coaching ethics of the j ship. There is nothing bettor for 
sport. , . ... ...................................... anyone than the fun In striving for.
A meeting of the United States Golf Association will be held in this arapionshlps, and, real sports-city January 13. If Carnegie Tech continues to develop her athletics as ...... .. I
rapidly in the next five years as she has in the last five she probably will! 1 VT !l ?Ue(J ln 110 better way, p,.jntQ(j
speaking of golfalso turn out a creditable golf team. than m striving for varsity basket1
Next month the United States Lawn Tennis Association.will convene and ! ball teams. Ihis fact is recognized
act upon recommendations such as plans for the erection of a permanent in theconstitution oT the associatennis stadium and several changes in the amateur code for competition ! Lion.
both of which were features of the executive committees meeting. Tennis | it is the desire of the girls to have 
is bound to receive a greater approval as the most vigorating of all fight -but one class of members and that 
sports._________________________________________.________________________j ciJias ail active ono. All girls should
Plaid Passers to Oppose 
Fast Middlebury Quintet
(Continued from Page One) 
in Lewis, Fletcher and Proudfoot, 
King, however, will return, a tower 
of strength at center and will be 
supported on either side by Joe Pondelilc and Rhorlce, both able guards.
%The loss of Fletcher leaves only one 
regular tackle in' Frank Gowdy. The 
other position may be taken by one 
of this years Freshmen players. Hibben and Henderson look like the 
most likely candidates.
Dickson and Lampe, both fast and 
rangy, will take the wing positions, 
and with Barnes and Wilcox, reserye 
men this year, the Maron flanks will 
be well protected. There are sev
eral good Freshman candidates for 
these positions who will form capable 
reserves.
Three Freshman backs have al
ready shown that they are varsity 
material. Schlabach, . an Oklohoriia 
boy, is a fast and shifty halfback,
backs the home team, that will give I*30 G^SttPed in somo branch of activ. n(T. . ! ities not only as an impotant part inine players flifty per cent more en-!
toward winningthe broader education but as an aid
the to the school, as well as themselves. 
! The organization is in the period
Tonight at the gymnasium an 
Eastern coiles^ basket ball team 
will face the Tartar, aggregation. 
Middlebury College at Middlebury, 
Vt., is not large but it generally 
puts out exceptionally good cage 
teams, and that fact is recognized by 
many of the large eastern colleges 
with whom games are scheduled. 
While this team is on a trip and 
having many favorable results from 
the games they have played so far. 
they do not know what class of 
basket ball the Carnegie men are 
capable of playing.
The Plaid tossers had little suc
cess in the three games, played while 
on their trip west. . Middlebury drop
ped a game to Westel-n Reserve 
College by a score of 41 to 27, which 
shows that theycan be defeated:
If afair-sized cheerine crowd
cuoragement 
game.
See what the campus posters sayl0*-' growth and tho intorest and onabout tho startin'? time of tho game.1 ",uaia-,M <* <* *.11 C*ngioI women but Carnegie men will help 
| the girls in this very much. A 
steady growth is directly in propor(Continued from Page Ono) 
boards presentable notices should bo 
whonovor possiblo, or well* 
lottered, and should bo in correct Eng
lish.
The above requirements are In ac
cordance with rocommoiulations made 
by a joint Faculty and Studont Com| mittoo, which were approved by tho 
Executive Board of the Institute. Tho 
Board of Student Activities and tho 
Athletic Council jointly pay for the 
service of a. studont for tho uplcoop 
of tho boards.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Moro Than Rost of World.
The highways of the United Statea 
totul moro miles (2,f)U0,0(K)) than near 
| ly all tho rest of the world put to* 
Hi or.___________________________
INTER-FRATERNITY BASKET BALL SCHEDULES
amd a hard man to stop. McCarty, j 
this years Freshman captain, is anj 
other good half with great ability to| 
go over tackle. Jim Beane, another I 
Oklahoma star, is a. good fullback, 
both offensively and defensively', and 
can also handle *the pilot job ably. | 
He is an accurate passer and a good j 
punter.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
*
Beta
Theta
Pi
Kappa
Sigma
Rho
lota
Sigma
Delta
Delta
Phi
Delta
Sigma
Alpha
Epsilon
Sigma
Epsilon
Phi
Scobel
Hall
Deltii
Epollon
Omega
Beta Theta Pi.......................Jan. !) 
1-2
Feb. 28 
1-1
Jan. 25. 
2-1
Feb. l.' 
1-2
Feb. 20 
1-2
Jan. 17 
2-2
Fob. G 
2-2
Kappa Sigma Rho.............Jan. 9 
1-2,ij ik- rFeb. 8 
1-1
Jan.18 
1-1
Feb. 20 
1-1
Jan.24 
1-2
Fob. 28 
 2-1
Fob. 15 
1-2
lota Sigma Delta..............Feb. 28 
1-1
Feb. 8 
1-1
Jan. 10 
1-1
Jan.1G 
2-1
Mar. G 
2-1
Feb. 15 
 1,1
Jan. 24
2-1
Delta Phi Delta....................Jan. 25 
2-1
Jan. 18 
1-1
Jan.10 
1-1
Feb. 8 
12
Feb. 13 
2-2
Mar. G 
2 2
Fob. 28 
2-2
Sigma Alpha Epsilon....Feb. 13 
1-2
Feb. 20 
1-1
Jan. 1G 
21
P*eb. 8 
1-2
Jan. 10 
2-2
Jan. 24 
1-1
Mar. 7 
1-1
Sigma Epsilon Phi..............Feb. 20 
1-2
Jan. 24 
1-2
Mar. 6 
2-1
Feb. Ill 
2-2
Jan. 10 
-, 2-2
Feb. 8 
2-1
Jan. 18 
1-2
Scobel Hall.............................Jan. 17 
2-2
Feb. 28 
2-1
Feb. 15 
1-1
Mar. G 
2-2
Jan. 24 
1-1
Feb. 8 
2-1 .
Jan. 11 
2-1
Delta Epsilon Omega....Feb. G 
2-2
Feb. 15 
1-2
Jan. 24 
2-1
Feb. 28 
2-2
Mar. 7 
1-1
Jan. 18 
1-2
Jan.11 
2-1
With throe of last, years regular j 
cage men unable to accompany Coach j 
Lubio and his squad of tossers from 
'Carnegio Tech, tho results of the 
three gamo-trip was quite inevitable.
Last Wednesday evening a. Christmas-l'ed bunch of athletes were on 
their way to Green Castle, Indiana, 
the homo of Dopauw University. Tho 
party was composed of Coach Ben 
Lubio, Manager Sid Keller, and nine 
Skibo players; Don Potior, all-Wostern State football end: Jim Andorhon, captan of tho 1922 grid team: 
Mofort, a member of the football 
squad; Gibson, captain of Carnegio 
1921 basket ball team: Goodwin, also 
a football man; Newman, an irregu
lar cage man from the 1921 team; 
Matter, who captained the Freshmen 
team last year; Gallagher, who prom
ises to make a bid for a position on 
this years regular five, and McCaw, 
who is showing good form on floor 
work.
This was tho first gamo for the 
boys who traveled all ttho way from 
Pittsburgh to Green Castle, and their 
lacW of hard practlco was apparent 
after the flrst few minutes of play. 
At tho outset of tho Depiiuw game 
tho Carnegie boys displayed somo 
neat passing work, but. the Univer
sity quintet proved that they were 
of tiger strength wlion they began 
to run away with the score.
Lineup and summary:
Dopauw 67. Carnegie25.
Wills ......................F............. Anderson
Laughlin ................F........... Potter
Johnson .................C............... Mofort
White .....................G................... Gibson
Fortune .................G................. Goodwin
Substitutions: DopauwAlloo for
Willis, Young for White, Struck for 
Fortune, Wills for Alloo, Fortune for 
Struck, Struck for Young, Bills for 
Laughlin, Riggs for Wills, Wilson 
for White, Rowe for Fortune; Carnegie TocliNewman for Potter, M.- 
Caw for Goodwin. Gallagher for Mc
Caw. ,
Field, goalsBills *1, Wills 6, Lauhlin 2, Johnson 7, White 7, IS truck 2, 
Young, Alloo, Andorson 4, Matter 
Mofort, Gibson 2, MoCaw. Foul 
goalsLaughlin, 5 out of 8; Bill'll, 1, 
out of 8; Whlto, 1 out of 2; Andor
son, 3 out of 12.
EXCLUSIVE
Oakland Dealers for
Trimble Hats Tyson Shirts
Cooper Underwear
PAJAMAS and 
IVnO NIGHT SHIRTS
DAVIES & HUGHES
OAKLANDS MEN'S STORE 
3615 Forbes St. Next to Strand Theater
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Sigma
Nu
Delta
Mu
Woodlawn
Club
McGill
Hall
Pi Kappa 
Alpha
Boss
Hall
Tau
Gamma
Phi
Delta
Upsilon
Jan. 9 
1-1
Feb. 21 
2-2
Jan.16 
1-1
Feb. 6 
1-2
Jan.24 
2-2
Feb. 27 
2-1
Feb. 13 
1-1
Jan. 9 
1-1\
Jan.17 
2-1
Feb. 14 
2-1
Feb. 27 
2-2
Feb. 7 
2-1
Feb. 20 
2-1
Jan. 25 
1-2
Woodlawn ,Club....................Feb. 21 
2-2
Jan.17 
2-1
Jan. 9 
2-2
Jan. 25 
1-1
Feb. 15 
2-1
Feb. G 
2-1
Feb. 28 
1-2
McGill Hall.............................Jan. 16 
1-1
Feb.14 
2-1
Jan. 9 
2-2
Mar. 6 
1-1
Feb. 20
2-2
Jn. 23 
2-2
Feb. 7 
2-2
Pi Kappa Alpha....................Fei). 6 
1-2
Feb. 27 
2-2
Jan. 25 
1-1
Mar. 6 
1-1
Jan.10 
2-1
Feb. 14 
2-2
Jan. 18 
2-1
Jan. 24 
2-2
Feb'. 7 
2-1
Feb. 15 
2-1
Feb. 20 
2-2
Jan.10 
2-1
Jan. 17 
1-1
Mar. 6 
1-2
Tau Gamma Phi....................Feb. 27 
2-1
Feb. 20 
. 2-1
Feb. G 
2-1
Jan. 23 
2-2
Feb. i t 2 -2Jan. 17 
 1-1
Jan. 11 
1-2
Delta Upsilon.........................Feb. 13 
1-1
Jan. 25 
1-2
Feb. 28 
1-2
Feb. 7 
2 2
Jan.18 
2-1
Mar. 6 
. 1-2
Jan.11 
1-2
C. M. Stauft
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
Franks Restaurant
4527 FORBES STREET
Under New ManagementFormer Tech Man. 
Cleanest and Be_st Home Cooking 
DELICIOUS PASTRIES 
Luther G-. Dauth, Proprietor.
FEDERAL LEAGUE
On Friday ovonlng tho second 
gn,me of tho. trip wan playod with 
Butler Collogo at Indianapolis, In
diana. Tho loainwork of thin ilvo 
was too . much for tho visiting dele
ga lion from Cnrnogio, and tho gamo 
became somewhat, one-sided. Jl min lo 
Audorson tallied 12 of tho :lli ^points 
scored by tho Plaid inon. Lineup: 
Biitlor42. Curnogio --115.
Hooker ..................F.............. Andormm
Griggs ......................F..................... Mottor
Middleftworth ,...G.................... Gibson
Losilo .............;,..'C................ Motford
Col way ..................G................. Now man
Substitutions.... Butler, Paul for
I-Iookor, Blosslng for Losllo, .lonos 
for Griggs, Nipper for Mlddlosworth, 
Marker for Colway, Hooker for Paul. 
Losllo for Blowing, Griggs for Jones, 
Mlddlsworth for Nipper, Colway for 
Harkpr, Paul for Colway, Nipper l'or 
Hooker, Carnaglo, Goodwin for 
Newman, Field goals Butlor, Loi' 
Mod, Hooker 5, Mlddlosworth 3, Nip
per 2, Griggs, Paul; lOarnogie, Ander
son C, Matter. Foul goals...Butlor,
Hooker 2, out. of Jl ; Griggs, 3 out of 
-I; Carnegie, Andorson, 2 out of 0 
Matter, 1 out of 3. RoforooFeasol. 
UmpirePatton.
The last of throe games was play
ed at Lansing, Mich., on the night 
of tho thirtieth of December. Mich
igan Aggies produced a team that 
could trim the best of floor and cage 
artists. Both teams had their stellar 
players In brilliant action and the 
final score 37-29 in favor of the Mich
igan Aggies does not begin to tell of 
tho excitement that was aroused at 
various times during the gamo.
The lineup and score.was as fol
lows :
Mich. Aggies37. Carnegie29.
McMillan .................F................Anderson
Nutilla ......................F..................... Matter
Mason ........................C............... Newman
Fessenden ...............G..................... Gibson
Eva ............................G................. Goodwin
Substitutions  Michigan Aggies, 
Rawlson for McMillan, McMillan fdV 
Rawlson, Rawjson for Eva, Hultman 
for Mason, Mason for Hultman, J-Iult
ra an for Nuttila-. Carnegie, Mofort 
for Goodwin.
Field GoalsMcMillan 8, Nuttila 4, 
Mason 2, Hultman 1, Eva 1, Anderson 
3, Matter 4, Newman 2, Gibson 3.
Fouls  McMillan, 2 out of 3; Ma
son, 3 out of 4; Matter, 5 out of 6.
RefereeRitter.
Year after year tennis is being 
given greater prominence in the vast 
tleld of sports. .At the present time 
national promoters of this most 
wholesome sport aro endeavoring to 
perpetuate tho proposed plan to erect 
a mammoth stadium for net title 
matches.
For many years a national tennis 
stadium has been a dream in the 
minds of this county's widely known 
racquet champions and enthusiasts, 
but truth is behind the statement 
that the United Sta'tes will soon 
liavo a permanent, stadium modeled 
somewhat after tho famous Wimble
don structure in England. At a rocent meeting of the executive com
mittee of the United Lam Tenuis 
Association, this recommendation was 
given careful consideration and when 
the annual meeting of tho associa
tion is held next month the proposed 
plan will be adopted and the most 
suitable location will bo decided up
on.
Submitting of plans and specifica
tions will immediately be in order 
after that meeting and they will call 
for a maximum seating capacity of 
15,000 spectators., This concrete sta
dium would cost approximately $175,- 
000, and it would enclose three play
ing courts, while the accommodating 
club building adjacent, to tho court 
will bo sufficiently largo to entertain 
those entered in the machos and al
so those interested in tho progross 
of the ipatclieh. The West. Side Tonnls Club of Forrost I-Iills, N. Y., has 
made known its desire to have such 
a structure erected at that prom
inent. place whero many national 
matches have boon' stagod..
During the month of December an 
architectural exhibit at tho Carnegio 
Institute Art Gailorios was open to 
tho public and among the best of 
work on exhibition was that of "A 
National Tamils Club by John Jaqoa 
Koil, a Sonior studont of architect
ure at Carnegio Toch and,a member 
of the varsity tennis team; Whether 
or not tills idoal club and stadium 
was drawn with tho view of enter
ing in competition for the proposod 
national stadium, every one interest
ed in tho advancement of tonnla at 
Curnogio would foel very proud to 
claim ono of their own Clansmen 
tho designer of this much needed 
stadium.
Recently Dwight F. Davis of Wash
ington, tho donor of tho emblematic 
Davis Cup to the Worlds Lawn Ten
nis 'Championship, was unanimously 
chosen prosldorif} of the United Lawn 
Tonnls Association to succeed Julian 
S. Myrlck of New York. At tho 
present timo Mr. Davis Is vIco presi
dent and bln vacancy will require 
another selection from tho many 
capable men for this office.
Wllhln the last week Edward B. 
Moss, sporting editor of tho Asso
ciated Press, wini given tho honor 
of succeeding Paul B. Williams as 
oxocutlvo secretary of tho U. L. T. 
A., an office of bonoary distinction 
rather than that, of a. working secre
tary. Proviousliy, this office was hold 
by tho Into Charles Garland, father 
of Chuck'' Garland who will coach 
tonnls a,I. Carnegio Toch ibis year.
Next weqlc tho sporting pugo of 
Tho Tartan will glvo Its readers 
many now and interesting ovonts, 
rules and comments on tonnls. Tflvon 
though the season Is not at hand, 
this is ono sport which Is played 
the Whole yoar through in various 
parts of the country, and If general 
tonnls now proves to bo Interesting 
all the more will reader bo anxious 
to soo the Carnegio tennis result in 
tho spring.
Prof. J. H. .Tames received an appro
priation of $400 to further his woric 
in developing a new fiiel which may 
bo manufactured by catalytic oxida
tion from low grade petroleum.
XI
Sigma
Upsilon
Hender
son
Hall
Square 
and 
. Compass
Welch
Hall
Theta
Xi
Kappa
Sigma
Beta
Sigma
Rho
XI Sigma Upsilon..............Jan. 9 
2-1
Jan. 17 
1-2
Feb. 21 
1-2
Feb. 7 
1-1
Jan. 23 
1*1
Feb. 27 
1-2
Henderson Hall..................Jan. 9 
2-1
Fel. 14 
1-2
Feb. 7 
1-2
Mar. 1 
1-1
Poh. Hi 
1-1
Jan. 23 
2-1
Square and Compass.........Jan. 17 
1-2
Feh. 14 
1-2
Jan.10 
1-2
Jan. 23 
1-2
Fei). G 
1-1
Fob. 21 
2-1
Welch Hall.............................Feh. 21 
1-2
Feh. 7 
1-2
Jan.10 
1-2
Jan.1G 
2-2
Feb. 27 
1-1
Feb. 13 
2-1
Theta Xi....................................Feb. 7 
1-1
Mar. 1 
1-1
Jan. 23 
1-2
Jan. 16 
2-2
Fr:b. 1,1 
1-1
Jan. Il 
1-1
Kappa Sigma.........................Jan. 23 
1-1
Feb. 21 
1-1
Feb. G 
1-1
Feb. 27 
1-1
Feb. 14 
1-1
Jan. 1G 
1-2
Beta Sigma Rho..................Feb. 27 
1-2
Jan.23 
2-1
Feb. 21 
2-1
Feb. 13 
2-1
Jan. 11 
1-1
Jan. 16 
1-2
Language Made by Lives.
Places sometimes take their names 
from prominent persons. Gibraltar Is 
a cane. The word was originally Jeba 1-Tiirik, 'which means the hill of 
TarJk, a Moorish general who captured 
the rock a thousand years ago.
Exemplary.
Even cider teaches us a lesson by 
Its wllllrmnesw m G FI4P_,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
Start the f 
Week Right f
Church on Sunday  
puts new pep into Mon; 
day, Tuesday, Wednes5: 
daytill Sunday comes $ 
again. Try it and see. jr.
Oakland Methodist | 
Church
FORBES AND 
BOQUET |
%
Fifty steps from the X 
campus X
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
J lead to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY/ JANUARY 3. 1923
ALUMNI PAGE
Few Members Turn Up 
At Clan Luncheon
STEFFEN TALKS
TO CHICAGO CLAN
Better Attendance Hoped For 
at Next Meeting
It may have been because of tlie 
proximity o Christmas, or that Sat-1 
urday afternoon, December 16, was a : 
good shopping day, and again there i 
may have been some other reason, j 
but at any rate, despite the fact that | 
there are over one thousand two hunj 
dred alumni in the Pittsburgh disj 
trict, the Pittsburgh Clan Luncheon , 
attracted but sixty ioyal alumni, in-; 
eluding about half a dozen faculty: 
members. Reservations had been  
made for two hundred and fifty.! 
Where were the other one thousand | 
one hundred anc} forty?
We are exerting every effort to j 
make the Pittsburgh Clan affairs a 
success, but we must have the co
operation of a much larger number 
than heretofore. We always welcome 
suggestions on how to increase the 
attendance.
The  regular Alumni Federation 
meeting preceded the luncheon, and 
the usual business was disposed of.
After a very delightful luncheon Dr. 
Baker gave an interesting account ofthe progress which has been made 
in the four divisions in the past year. 
He then gave a resume of the things 
of interest which have taken place 
since the opening of the school this 
fall. He also told of plans to obtain | 
xheu prominent in politics, education, 
and other fields to address the stu
dent body from time to time.
Dr. Rittman spoke of the necessity 
for a broader education, whether a 
man were to be an engineer, or enter 
the business field.
Professor Hornbostel gave an in
teresting account of the difficulties 
which have been overcome in bringing 
the new gymnasium plans to their 
present state of development. He al
so displayed his finished plan and 
perspective drawing for the new gym
nasium group. This tinted drawing 
will be framed in the near future and 
will be hung in the Alumni office.
If things go according to schedule, 
work will be started in the spring, 
and the buildings will be ready for 
use next fall.
Chicago, III., Dec. 10The Chicago 
Clan Banquet on December 9th was 
a big success, attended by twenty-five 
Chicago Carnegie Tech Alumni, six of 
v/hom v/ere women.
Coach Wally Steffen and Mrs. Stef
fen have returned to Chicago and 
were the guests of honor. The coach 
is resuming his duties as Judge of the 
Superior Court, and gave those pres
ent a very splendid talk of over an 
hour in which he reviewed the games 
of last season and outlined the possi
bilities for next year.
An effort had been made to obtain 
the movies of last seasons games as 
filmed by R. H. Guyton, but owing to 
the congestion of the mails this was 
not possible.
At the election of officers which fol
lowed the banquet Frank McCaughey 
was elected president; I. S. Stark, 
secretary and treasurer. An executive 
committee was formed which includes 
F. McCaughey, chairman; I. S. Stark, 
J. J. Kennedy, Wm. H. Searight, and 
Miss Florence Schell.
Another meeting was planned for 
the second week in January.
Thirty-Three More p
Contribute to Kilts [_ blii ^ays: j [CLAN NEWS
Former President on List of 
Contributors
Break, break, break 
On thy cold gray stones, O sea! 
But you could not break for forty 
years
And be as broke as me.
The Bulletin.
Women divide our attention. 
Subtract from our bankrolls.
Add to our worries.
And multiply our good times.
The Holcad.
Now that this project is running 
along smoothly, plans have been 
formulated for. still further additions 
and improvements. We want every 
Carnegie Tech Alumnus to keep in 
touch twith his school and to have a 
part in its progress.
There will be another luncheon the 
latter part of January, details of 
which will be announced later. We 
should have an attendance of at least 
three hundred at this.
An attractive program will be ar
ranged, and it is the duty of every 
one to talk it up as much as possible 
and to do as much personal work as 
he can in stirring up interest in the 
Pittsburgh Clan affairs.
I Heres one from an old Carnegie 
1 man which ought to stimulate the 
j rest of the Alumni:
I Yes, I have heard or the Kilties, 
| and it's thebest stunt that has been 
j pulled off at Carnegie in years. Its 
I a wonder they did not do it long 
| ago.
I I have been so eager to see the 
j pictures that Ive suddenly gone 
j movie crazy, and have spent my in
come attending all the shows in 
town in the hope of seeing the 
Kilties in the features. But 1 still 
have one buck left, amd have en
closed it.
Til get busy with the gang out 
I here and see if I can stir up some 
j more for you.
j Did you forget your Alma Mater 
when you made out your Christmas 
list? If-so, start the New Year right 
make a check or mail order out to 
G. L. Tilbroolc, Treasurer, and mark 
it "Kilties. Your name will appear 
on tlie list below:
O. E. Brenot, Mrs. Geo. R. King,
0. E. Bee, F. A. Lind, John D. Spald
ing, E. G. Peterson. Paul F. Mauer, 
Geo. E. Smith, II. R. Auerswald, Mrs.
1. I. Harnack, Hugh Brady, Homer 
Sinclair, L. H. Lee, G. L. Tilbrook, 
L. T. Kelly. W. II. Ritts, Bessie Finkelhor, M. R. Walton, Miss A. Hibbs, 
K. H. B. Julian, F. Miller, J. M. Orr, 
A. J. Hyna, Gertrude Baton, Althea 
I. Burch, T. C. Kindle, David R. Reid, 
E. F. Lundeen, E. P. Poste, H. S. Texter, Harold P. Greenwald, Edger F. 
Obert, E; J. I-Iedlund, A. M.' Cooper, 
W. H. Bennett; Charles L. Yost, Helen 
Lewis, Grace Little Hauslialter, James 
J. Hauslialter, John Kentlein, E. A. 
Graham, Carl Reid, Chas. W. Gibbs, 
G. W. Todd, Golda M. Haninger, Wal
ter N. Flanagan, E. Gray Merrill, Buf
falo Clan, Charlotte Smith, B. H. Walrath, Mary Landis Wallace, Mrs. Jane 
Linderman Cole, P. A. Gartshore, E. 
Clifton Wilson, Marie E. Metzger, 
Horace Johnson, Edward Johnson, 
Frances Roberts, John Towns, Octave 
Scliuurer, R. E. Welty, Sue F. Smith, 
John B. Moore, Jean M. Eakin, II. G.
^Students who dont come back J 
each year occupy a big list of students j 
in every college. The faculty sees j 
fit to dispense with some; financial ] 
embarrassment gets its quota; and 
sickness keeps another group out. 
Many of tho students go to work and 
during the routine of daily labor for
get that they once went to Carnegie 
Tech and at first had intentions of 
returning when they drew up courage 
to study harder; earned a little money 
for expenses or recovered from some 
sickness.
Some say I have a good job, I dont 
need further education. Statements 
of that sort prove in later life to be 
the greatest mistake a person can 
make. Perhaps you will get along for 
some years and will never miss the 
unfinished part of your college life, 
but some time the day will come when 
you will say: Why didnt I go back
and finish my course? It may then 
be too late.
Think it over, you who are alumni 
but not graduates. Come back to the 
old place again and finish your educa
tion. The longer you put it off the 
harder it is to get in the harness 
again and the more chance you take 
oL neglecting your education.
WASHINGTON, D. C., CLAN
The Washington, D. C., clan held 
1 their first Christmas dinner party on 
! Thursday evening, December 21st,
| which proved to be a decided success.
! The place chosen was Pierce Mill 
| Tea House in Rock Creek Park, which 
j place, surrounded by evergreen, was 
indaed in keeping with the Christmas 
season.
An excellent dinner was served dur
ing which the orchestra furnished 
some very enjoyable music. The clan 
was most fortunate in having as, a 
guest Mr. Lippincott, secretary of the 
! Philadelphia clan, who gave a very 
1 timely talk. He especially emphaj sized that the undergraduates should 
i become interested in the work of the 
clan, so lliat they can take an active 
I part when they graduate.
I Following the dinner, the floor was j 
cleared for dancing. Those who did 
not dance played cards or gathered
these being undergraduates, home for 
their Christmas vacation.
INCLEMENT WEATHER
HAS LITTLE EFFECT ON
CLAN MEETING
Thursday evening, December I t, tho 
New York Clan held Its regular 
monthly dinner at tho Cafe Boule
vard. Forty-first street and Broadway, 
New York City.
In spite of tho heavy snow and in 
clement weather, a fair sized crowd 
was present and everyone enjoyed 
the dancing,after the excellent meal.
* * * * * *
* NEW YORK CLAN ATTENTION *
J. S. Ivler, head ofthe Department 
of Industrial Economics, has been 
given a grant of ?200 to carry on re
search work in the line of economics 
connected with engineering prob
lems.
1| in little groups and reminisced, 
j When the midnight hour was at 
! hand and the party broke up to the 
tune of Dear Old Tech it seemed 
as though the chain of friendship was 
just a little stronger than before.
The beautifully decorated and il
luminated Christmas tree, the holly 
decorations, the clever placo cards, 
the fine music, and tho smoothness 
which characterized the proceedings 
was the-work of the committee on ar
rangements, Katliryne Harris and 
Carl Zobel.
Twenty-eight were present, ten of
C. C. Crawford was given an apropriation of $100 to carry out his study 
and research of methods of notetaking for students.
Nichol, John F. Sweeney, C. B. Cae, 
John W. Savage, Alfred W. Grieb, 
George T. Barnesley, Helen Black, 
F. R. Cogswell, IC. T. Meyers, Albert 
Henderson, Dr. A. A. Hatnerschlag, 
Joseph A. Hubbard, C. C. Manches
ter, H. A. I-Iedlund, M. A. Zeller, A. 
R. Brock, Edna C.( Smith, A. H. 
Weitz, Henry Shaub. J. P. Bailee, W. 
R. Miller, P. W. Emmol, R. Davis, 
H. Nieman, R. M. Ward, II. Styri, R. 
B. Coldien, W. P. Lippincott, I*. W 
Schmidt, L. E. Exline, Florence 
Langworthy, Dorothea Steinmacher.
The Engineering in a Curling Iron
What sort of engineering is it that 
makes a study of the needs and the 
interests of women and creates prod
ucts to satisfy them? Does it seem 
that, in practice at least, this sort of 
thing is a little different from your 
understanding of what an engineer 
really is and does?
After all; when you come to think of 
it, engineering is concerned with all 
the facts of life. It takes the old facts 
and interprets them in new and 
broader ways; but its big job is the 
very big job of making more living, 
fuller living,readily available. It 
is, in every -aspect, a thing worth do
ing, whether it concerns itself with 
curling irons or converters, or any of 
the thousands of products in between.
This is truly the day of the engi
neer. His judgments and his equip
ment are sought in almost every phase 
of living. Engineering is remaking the 
business of housekeeping. Its methods 
are being applied to merchandis
ing, to distribution, to the wrapping of 
bundles and the packing of boxes, to 
the lighting of streets and the hun
dreds of things that, a few years 
back, were strictly "rule-of-thumb. 
By the time you are at work out in 
the world, there will be morethough 
there are only a few of them left.
Whatever is worth doing is worth 
engineering; engineering effort digni
fies itself. Whether it puts more use
fulness into transformers or curling 
irons or turbines does not matter. 
The thing that counts is the work, the 
creative, constructive service that is 
going on for the lasting benefit of 
mankind.
Westinghouse ( W
ACHIEVEMENT 8 OPPORTUNITY
YESTINGHOUSE ' 
ELECTRIC
I* January 12, Friday evening, tho 
Clan holds a dinner at the White v 
% Rose, 981 Eighth avenue, near ?!* 
I* Columbus Circle, New York City, v 
J* Make your plans now to attend, v 
v Tho annual banquet and dance * 
is scheduled for Saturday oven* 
*> ing, February 3, in the Colonial 
I* Room, Hotel McAlpiu. Mark this v
* date on your new calendar.
?
*2* v *! ^ ** !* *! %* !* *J* **
NEW YORK CLAN
The next dlnner-dance of tho Now 
York Clan will be held Friday ovoning, January 12, 1923, at.Tho White 
Rose, 981 Eighth averiuo, at Colum
bus Circle, Now York City.
CELEBRITIES GUESTS AT COAL
MINERS CLUB SMOKER
Various celebrities in tho coal min
ing field wero guests at the third 
smoker given this year in Englebrocht 
Hall by the Coal Miners Club, consist
ing of tlio two-year coal mining stu
dents of the Co-operative Department 
of Mining Engineering.
The following men wero guests tit 
tho smoker: Richard Maize, State
Mine Inspector and Prosldont Eloct 
of the Coal Mining Institute of Amorica; Thomas Fear, General Superin
tendent, Inland Colliorios Company, 
Indinnola, Pa.; James Thirtlo, Safety 
Inspector, Inland Colliorios Company, 
Indianola, Pa.; Professor Hubble ol 
tho School of Minos, State Collogo, 
Pa. Each of the guests gave talks and1 
assuranco of their Intorost and co
operation in tho 'Co-operative Mining 
courses horo.
ALL INDUSTRIES MEN MUST
GO TO ASSEMBLY NOW
(Continued from Page Ono) 
class nolivilies. Larger, attendance 
at assemblies would, under tho now 
plan, enable tho officers to socui'e
better speakers and programs for all 
tho regular assemblies.
It is hoped that all Industries stu
dents will seriously consider tho now 
plan and bo ready to discuss It when 
it is prosonted for approval. Once
the plan Is working smoothly, tboro 
Is no doubt ihat tlio other collegos
will fall In lino and adopt a like
system.
MINING ENGINEERS GET
ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVE
Tho Mining Engineering Depart
ment recently acquired through the 
co-operation of tho Wostlnghouso 
Manufacturing Company, a six-ton 
gathering type mine locomotive with 
special features which adapt it espe
cially for Instructional purposos In a 
mining laboratory. This now addi
tion or ociulpmont should not only bo 
of valuo to tho Mining Engineering 
Department, but will also prove use
ful as an adjunct to tho Electrical 
Department's laboratory apparatus.
French Named 1 wo Toxtllco.
^ Two textiles owe their nainos to 
France. They are cretonne and cam
bric, the first o^ which came from the 
Normandy town of Croton while the 
second Is still manufactured u 
Cambral.
LUTHERAN STUDENT HOUSE
TO OPEN JANUARY 5
(Continued from Pago Ono) 
eran churches) of the district In this 
substantial way desire to express 
their Interest In studont ondoavor and 
educational work. Tho oo-opomtion 
ol' tho educational authorities lias 
been most cordial and prospocts alyeady i*>olnt to enlarged sorvlco In tho, 
extensive center just opened.
Most of tho dotalls In connection 
with tho schodulo of activities aro 
completo and the plans of tho commit
tee call for an onlargod program. 
Somo nnnouncoinontfl may be expect
ed Friday ovoulng. Periodic bulletins 
will keep students Infomed pf tho 
religious and educational aetlvitlon. 
Thore Is to bo eloso co-operation with 
tho social service department and 
I through tlio courtesy of tho Lutheran 
I Training School somo courses are to 
| bo offered at tho house. Tlio organi
zation of a Studont Association or 
/Student Council is being coniildorod. 
While the house Is bolng os tab II shod 
by thb Lutheran ehurohos ol! tho city 
all students regardless of their relig
ious alllllatlons will bo welcomed. All 
are Invited to the Friday evening re
ception.
ALUMNI CALENDAR
.........8:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, JANUARY 7, 1923
RecitalDepartment of Music, C. I. T.....................
FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1923
N. Y. Clan Meeting...................White Rose, 981 Eighth Ave., N. Y. C.
SUNDAY, JANUARY 21, 1923 
RecitalDepartment of Music, C. I. T....................................8:00 p. m.
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, P,. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, 0.
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, "Wollaston, 
Mass.'
BUFFALOSecretary, William S. Bennett, 722 Prospect Avenue.
CHICAGOActing Secretary, N. P. Rice, 7015 Greenview A.venue.
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DETROITSecretary, II. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. Konnerth, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street.
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., -East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORDActing Secretary, C. V. Carlson, Box 1320, care Lon
don & Lancashire Indemnity Company.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. Dc Young, 808 Second St., E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wallace, 641 Ilonier St.
LOS ANGELESActing Secretary, Mrs. Inez Heacock Pille, 865 
East Fifty-first Street.
MONONGAIIELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLE-Acting Secretary, P. W. Marccau, 202 Shenango St,
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
ell ester Park, Tuckahoc, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, W. H. Sands, 814 Brandon Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W J*. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegio Institute o Tech
nology.
SHARONActing* Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin, St.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. teller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott, 65 East Earl Street.
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 
1422 Wick Avenue.
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
A complete line of the 
most beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. lieimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital..............................$200,000.00
Surplus nnd Undivided
Profits...........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
DANCING
-------AT-------
The
Rittemhoiise
EVERY SATURDAY9 P. M.
rmmmmtmmmmmmmtmmmnmi
 GO TO THE
!-lTech Barber Shop
,1 FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS3
% Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS,
id ^ 
rS/S/3J3/3/S/3J3/3/9JD?/iiJc]JtI/IiSi3J3itt!/S/niiSJcJ3/c/3
|lllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllll[||||||lll!| 
 Compliments 
I Skibo Inn 1
The Flavor Lasts
