the Tartan
Vol. 68, No. 1 Wednesday, September 18, 1968
SUCCESS STORY
by Jenifer Digby
After a spring and summer of talking and planning, Freshman 
Camp 1968 actually came into being. And, it went off surprisingly 
well, in spite of one major difficulty it rained. Three days of rain, 
on and off, muddied up the grounds of Camp Lutherlyn and sent 
every camper  be he freshman, staff member, counsellor or faculty 
advisor  indoors to warm up and dry out. But perhaps the rain was a 
positive thing. It got everybody together from the moment the Fresh
man campers arrived on Wednesday. It broke up their scattered vol
ley ball games and aimless wanderings over the camp grounds, and got 
them all into Rice Hall to listen to an impromptu show of folk and rock 
music put on by Hal Aqua and Melon Roos and Dayna Seligman. And 
soon the spirit of 72 moved the campers to dance, and to sing and to 
otherwise carry on just like a bunch of old friends. The impromptuness 
was perhaps the best of Camps features. There was a spirit of spon
taneity from the first hour, that lasted right through to the busses de
parture on Friday.
Guiding the direction of Camp for its duration was, of course, a 
carefully mapped-out pattern of program and entertainment, but what 
sprang from this basis was something more. It was rapport between 
staff and faculty and Frosh. As Dean Swank put it: I havent felt 
this much at ease at a Freshman Camp in seven or eight years. It was 
more than co-operation. Everybody just pitched inand it worked.
Dr. Morgan, summing up on Friday morning, 
agreed that Freshman Camp 1968 had been a suc
cess. He said that, in addition to being so much fun. 
Camp this year had gotten down to a problem very 
basic to the college student todaythe question of 
every students involvement with issues of the com
munity and of the nation.
The campers were given plenty of opportunity 
to consider their place in the scheme of world cri
ses. They were addressed on the first night by 
Thomas Kerr, President of the American Civil Lib
erties Union, and faculty member at C-MU. In his 
speech Student Power, Mr. Kerr outlined his ra
tional view of the rights of students and those of 
the University. The audience reacted as they would 
to other programs at Freshman Camp. They gave 
him a standing ovation.
Another program that greatly moved the Fresh
man was the film experience entitled Crisis 
in American Cities, put together by Bert Cottine 
and Dave Chou. In the discussions that followed the 
showing of the film, the Freshmen consistently ex
pressed their acute awareness of the problems that 
the world presents to them as part of the upcoming 
generation. Their discussions ranged from George 
Wallace to sex and drugs on campus.
Camp was fun, too. It was square dancing, and 
go-go girls, and rock n roll music and folk music. 
Everybody played volley ball at one time or another 
(weather permitting), and there was a chicken bar
becue that turned into a sing-in. Camp entertain
ment held great variety. Wendesday night was 
Walker night, and Rockn Roll Night, to the sound 
of Sonny and the Satins. What Freshman will for
get the feature called Distances, which presented 
amusing but poignant vitnettees of campus life? 
And who could forget the sometimes funny, some
times shocking, sometimes sad Philosophies giv
en by twelve counsellors.
In short, the Class of 72 crammed an,inordinate 
amount of singing and dancing and discussion and 
thought into approximately 48 hours  from noon 
Wednesday to Noon Friday. But soon after the last 
chorus of Dear Ole Tech had died away, and the 
busses had begun the trek back to Pittsburgh and 
C-MU, a lasting impression of what Camp had been 
and did and proved began to take shape. It had 
brought all the campers close together. It had given 
them, or renewed in them, a school spirit and a feel
ing of belonging. There were those who didn't ever 
feel like belonging. There were some who said 
Camp was a necessary evil  no more than an 
adequate form of initiation to a new environment. 
But there were more who loved camp  every min
ute of it.
Clockwise from upper left:
Unloading at Camp Lutherlyn, 
Frosh prepare for an Exper
ience.
Counsellors give the campers 
a new song-and-dance.
The gourmands introduction 
to C-MU: hot dawgs on the 
I.M. field.
The Hendersons will all be 
there. . What a scene! And 
of course, Harry the Horse 
dances the waltz.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TART ANWednesday, September 18, 1968
Giant Posterfrom any photo
2ft.x3ft.only $|.9S
(*4.?S Tilw)
byJen ief rDigA t aspdJ um guDum 
osudu leu eJkidp,JFh ien dsJ eiCJ 
1yapekDpeJ9g6d u6d 8muC ief yapekDpeJ 
oigAikJ lum mJiFueirDJ 8igFpCpDJh duc 
.wyjTLvBTjI .w WuR HqMI 
SuunFpnJI 7 HH2GG egDuFJ -H:M 
giFsI gsJgAI um CueJf umnJm leu 
wEKFh Bnn FiDJF diR asJmJ iooDpP
girDJ
.uFdJm muDDJn ien CipDJn louFdP
oipnh pe Fd6mnf d6rJ wmpkpeiD CidJP
mpiD mJd6meJn 6eniCikJn yidpF8igdpue 
k6imiedJJn
Get aSwingline Tot Stapler
(including 1000 staples)
Larger size CUB Desk 
Stapler only $1,49
Unconditionally guaranteed.
At any stationery, variety, or book store.
INC.
LONG ISLAND CITY, N.Y. 11101
Take Grad 
Rees Early
Anyone preparing himself for 
admission to graduate school 
should be sure he has fulfilled 
all the requirements in advance. 
Among other things, many grad
uate schools now require scores 
from the Graduate Record Exam
inations. This test is offered on 
October 26 and December 14 in 
1968 and on January 18, Febru
ary 22, April 26, and July 12 in 
1969. Individual applicants should 
be sure that they take the test in 
time to meet the deadlines of 
their intended graduate school or 
graduate department or fellow
ship granting agency. Early regis
tration also ensures that the indi
vidual can be tested at the loca
tion of his choice and without 
having to pay the three dollar 
registration fee for late registra
tion.
The Graduate Record Examina
tions in this program include an 
Aptitude Test of general scholas
tic ability and Advanced Tests of 
achievements in 22 major fields 
of study. Candidates determine 
from their preferred graduate 
schools or fellowship committees 
which of the examinations they 
should take and when they should 
be taken.
Full details and forms needed 
to apply for the GRE are contain
ed in the Bulletin of Informa
tion for Candidates. If this book
let is not available on your cam
pus, you may request one from 
Educational Testing Service. Box 
955, Princeton, New Jersey 08540: 
990 Grove Street, Evanston, Ill
inois 60201 or 1947 Center Street, 
Berkeley California 94704.
SMORGASBORD
Beginning September 29th, a 
smorgasbord will be served Sun
day evenings in the Skibo main 
dining room from 5 p.m. until 
7 p.m. It will be open to every
one, all you can eat for $1.75, 
children under 12 - $1.00. Re
sponse to the new procedure will 
determine whether Smorgasbord 
dining will become a regular Sun
day evening feature.
Symphony Begins 
Concert Series
The Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra has made public the de
tailed programs for its 42nd sub
scription season, beginning on 
September 20 and 22 at Syria 
Mosque. The series of 24 FridaySunday pairs of concerts, 16 of 
which will be conducted by Mu
sic Director William Steinberg, 
will feature dozens of internation
ally renowned musical artists.
Associate Conductor Henry 
Mazer will lead four pairs of sub
scription concerts, one of which 
will feature the Mendelssohn 
Choir of Pittsburgh.
One of the special features of 
the season planned by Dr. Stein
berg is a five-concert cycle of 
the works of Beethoven, with em
phasis on the concerto literature.
Detailed illustrated program 
brochures outlining the season in 
full have been mailed to sub
scribers and friends of the or
chestra. Orders are now being ac
cepted for season subscriptions, 
which can be purchased for as 
little as $15.00. Brochures and fur
ther information may be obtained 
by calling the Pittsburgh Sym
phony at 281-8185 and by writing 
or visiting the office at 207 North 
American Rockwell Building, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222.
the Tartan the
DAVE KAMONS
byJeninfirDgnAt
Executive Editor.............................................RALPH SWOBODA
Managing Editor..........................................................JOHN MERA
Business Manager............................................JIM NEUMEISTER
Desk Editor...........................................................BARBARA MOSES
News Editor............................................................JENIFER DIGBY
Assistant News Editor...........................................BILL McCLOSKY
Assistant Desk Editor.........................................DENISE McGREW
Features Editor...................................................LINDA PECAITES
Sports Editor..................................................................ALAN LETZT
Photography Editors............................................GORDON MORRIS
DENNIS SVITEK
Local Advertising Manager........................DAVID BALLANTINE
National Advertising Managers..................................JUDY GADOL
NANCY GADOL
Layout Editor...................................................ELLEN BLISSMAN
Circulation Managers...........................................RACHEL KATZEN
BOB PORTER
aspsd
umo
TARTAN
lu umo
Activities Fair
Ice Capades 
Returns to Pgh.
Americas No. 1 Family Show, 
Ice Capades, will make its 29th 
appearance at the Civic Arena, 
Pittsburgh, September 20 - 29 in 
six evening and eight matinee 
performances.
Billed as todays show with a 
tomorrow look, the ice extra-vangaza will feature six big produc
tion numbers, with champion 
solo acts and top flight comedy 
sprinkled in between.
There will be evening perfor
mances September 20, 21, 25, 26, 
27 and 28. Matinees will be 
shown September 21 and 22, and 
September 28 and 29. Altogether 
there will be six evening shows 
and eight matinees. Prices range 
from $2.50 to $4.50 for adults, 
and there are special Junior and 
Misses discounts, as well as group 
discounts.
WRCT
brings you 
TARTAN SPORTS
JCARNEGIE/MELLON STUDENTS
Welcome to Pittsburgh
We hope your stay will le most emanile
Please Stop In And Become Acquainted 
For All Your CLOTHING NEEDS
We carry all Name Brands:
KUPPENHEIMER / EAGLE / H. FREEMAN / COLLEGE HALL 
STANLEY BLACKER / LEVI / FARAH / LONDON FOG 
DOBBS / HATHAWAY / MANHATTAN / AND MANY OTHERS 
FREE MONOGRAMMA ON ALL SH.RTS A,
____--------
^xj^eich A
212 S. Highland Avenue / I
Ea< Libero / ph 6*1 2257 # J
5820 F n r be Avenue 
Squirrel H.ll / ph 21 SfiOO
k,g umlu FbsrJ hCC1 nf ADeumnf96
REICH / FRANK, MELLON, PNB CHARGE CARDS 
HONORED
ALEX REICH OPEN MONDAY, THURSDAY AND 
FRIDAY EVENINGS
FRANK OPEN TUESDAY AND THURSDAY EVENINGS

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 18, 1968THE TARTANPage 3
FROM THE SECOND CITY
by Dave Kamons
8mlu teDDec\ n. wlgu et l ynlgk 
jowu ygnf9 umo ToLeAglunA refv
BofunefI su Aefulnf. l .uglf9o Lnv
ugo et yofu. lfy tooDnf9. umlu 
lgo cmlu s jfec ue mo umo ugum 
lWeu umo mlwwofnf9. n u m o 
.ugoou. et rmnAl9eI su n. l .uegk 
umlu L.u mo ueDy nf mluoI DeBoR 
lf9ogR lfy HenH l. coDD l. nf tlAu.I 
sf egyog ue fyog.ulfy nuI efo 
L.u lW.egW umo ueulD owognofAo 
et Wonf9 umogoR l. coDD l. umo yn.v
wl..nefluo owognofAo et oBofu. 
goDluoy Wk goLeuo AefugeDI
There was something missing 
from the mood of the city. I felt 
no carnival in the air; just grim
ness and concentration. People 
were going somewhere to do some
thing. It wasnt about to be pleas
ant either. There they were going, 
what they had to do, I couldnt 
discern. I dont think they knew 
either. Shoppers, office girls, 
clerks, men in the street all seem
ed part of a movement, committed 
to a difficult, dangerous path, 
without a goal or a plan of action.
Police were everywhere in the 
Loop. Delegates wives love the 
powder-blue helmets on the motor
cycle and riot squads. They al
ways work in pairs. They worked 
twelve hours a day without days 
off during the entire convention 
period. Days before the opening 
session I guessed that before the 
final gavel there would be some 
mightly irritable cops ready to 
crack heads at the slightest ex
cuse. I wish I hadnt been so 
right.
The evening of August 27 1 
went up to Lincoln Park, scene 
of disturbances the preceding two 
nights. I wanted to see whether 
the reports of the trouble had been 
grossly exaggerated.
The scene at the park was 
pretty groovy before the police 
showed. There was a rally led by 
the clergy and the Mobilization 
to End the War in Viet Nam. A 
group of Souls was making it on 
drums and a recorder; solid sound 
all the way. There were a few 
rabble rousers speaking to small 
groups.
The area doctors and medical 
students organized a medical 
corps to administer first aid for 
tear gas, mace, and wounds. They 
said they werent called out by 
any members of the protesting 
groups; they knew there would 
be many people needing help and 
couldnt stay away from any place 
where they were needed.
Surprisingly, the police gave us 
every opportunity to leave. They 
lined up at the south end of the 
green, an unending line of pastel 
helmets. They gave a five minute 
warning twice; they didnt move 
until long after the final warning; 
the officer making the announce
ment was bombed by hoods throw
ing bottles. Having hoods there 
nearly wrecked the entire demon
stration. Surprisingly few heads 
were cracked. At this point I 
thought the Chicago police might 
have a shred of decency in them 
after all.
Back at our College News Cen
tral I found what a billy-club 
does. I sat next to a guy from 
Bard College, a year younger 
than I. He cocked his head to the 
left and the shock of hair cover
ing the wound fell aside. A three 
inch circle of scalp had been 
shaved; in the middle was a gash 
an inch and a half long, maybe 
half an inch wide, black with 
clotted blood and sutures. What 
disgusted me was the thought 
of the pot-bellied tyrranical, 
leering fuzz who had clubbed 
him, not in self-defense, not to 
prevent him from doing harn to 
other persons or property, but 
because he had only been in the
The police remained in the 
area blocking off the Hilton, the 
worlds friendliest hotel. Big, 
pot; bellied, red-necked men; 
fists like hams; fat, huge-armed 
fighters. I saw only hate in their 
eyes. To look at them made my 
blood run cold. They were there 
for the fight. They were there to 
hurt first and most, before any
body could hurt them. How badly 
could a singing peace marcher or 
a chanting demonstrator going to 
hurt a brute like that. Whenever 
I passed one I shuddered. Here 
was raw. incarnate hate; the man 
who controlled ultimately was 
Richard Daley, and even his pow
er barely held the brutes back.
Perhaps the Honorable Mayor, 
being apparently unfamiliar with 
the niceties of human dignity, 
being apparently used to mani
pulating people as one would 
manipulate cattle in the stock
yards surrounding the Amphi
theater, is frustrated at the fail
ure of his obviously heavy hand
ed methods of control. Perhaps 
he is even more angry that the 
voice of dissent, the cry of those 
who will not remain complacent 
in a system they consider cor
rupt, rang through his efforts at 
suppression as the Battle Hymn 
of the Republic overwhelmed his 
amplified brass band in the con
vention hall. The cry of dissent 
foreshadows the end of the current 
maching in search of a better 
way. That would be thfe end of 
Richard Daley.
wrong place at the wrong time.
Meanwhile a youthful crowd 
had assembled in Grant Park 
across Michigan Avenue from the 
Hilton. Our unreliable estimates 
placed about five-hundred sing
ing, chanting hippies, yippies, 
anti-war demonstrators, and other 
types sick and fed-up with the 
establishment, in the park facing 
the citys largest hotel.
I remember them chanting 
Peace Now, Hell No! We 
wont go! and Join us to the 
visitors across the street. They 
asked those who sympathized to 
flash the lights in their rooms. 
Enheartened by the support a 
soaring cheer swelled from the 
crowd. From my perch inside 
the Blackstone I could see the 
window opposite flash, heard the 
roar swell; I remember feeling 
very good.
I shared my post with a pair 
of fine ladies from Sioux Falls. 
Thev were shocked that anybody
was their country right or wrong, 
but mostly right. (So far right 
that even the Birchers need a 
telescope to find it.)
The Minute Men weren't even 
in competition for obnoxious Per
sonality of the Evening. The 
award goes to the Cute People 
who crawled out of their late 
cocktail parties to gawk at the 
crowd. They gaped at long hair 
and beads. They grinned at the 
anti-administration humor. They 
used infinitely many words as 
draft-dodgers, youth with a 
cause, and social change. The 
sounds were right; its too bad 
they meant nothing.
At five in the morning the group 
leaders sent everybody home for 
some sleep before a promised 
march on the International Am
phitheater. It was the morning 
of the fateful day that the police 
showed their true personalities.
In the afternoon the main group 
headed on the march, leaving a
It was nearly dusk. The chant
ing crowd in the street must 
have been well over a thousand. 
They sat down, completely block
ing the street. They forced a 
minor rerouting of traffic, but 
they did not prevent access to 
either the Hilton in which Mc
Carthy and Humphrey were 
quartered of the Blackstone, 
where McGovern headquarters 
were. They didnt move toward 
the hotels. They sat and contin
ued chanting.
I was perched in a third story 
window overlooking the inter
section. I glanced down Balbo 
Street and saw a line of about 
fifty riot cops sealing it off. It 
appeared that nobody could 
leave. Very few tried. Anyone who 
had come that far was too dedi
cated and courageous to quit 
just when it seemed that people 
were going to listen.
Without warning the line of 
cops charged up Balbo, milling
under 21 was allowed to have 
an opinion. They were appalled 
that democracy had degenerated 
so far, and that parents had be
come so permissive as to actually 
allow their ignorant children to 
crusade for a cause which was 
blatantly against the interests of 
the nation. Theyre just out for 
laughs. They want attention. 
They dont want to serve in our 
fine Army. I mentioned that I 
heard nobody laughing. One of 
them almost admitted shedrather 
see her son dead in the paddies 
than demonstrating with such a 
treasonous bunch.
The delegates realized that 
these kids werent all 15-year-old 
love-hippies. As more and more 
of them took the microphone to 
express their feelings on the war 
and invite the delegates down to 
join the peace movement, more 
and more people poured out of 
the hotel and through the police 
lines. (Incredibly, the police and 
the National Guard which reliev
ed them stood, made no move. 
There was no incident.) One 
speaker was a former engineer 
who had given up making water
proof toilet paper to attempt to 
engineer a bullet-proof society. 
I thought of school and where it 
all fit in. I saw instantly and tried 
to put it out of my mind.
The red necks were out in full 
force. They won the war, one 
American Legionaire told me. 
What they cant see is that the 
real war, the one being faught 
in Newark, Cleveland, and D.C., 
the war which may tear this 
country into unsalvageable pieces, 
has always been their baby. It
cadre to hold Grant Park, 
which they had peacefully liber
ated the night before. They were 
turned back and somehow ended 
up between the lake and the com
plex of railroad tracks that par
allels the lake. There were four 
bridges spanning the tracks. The 
police and Guards closed off three, 
the northernmost, about five 
blocks from the Hilton, was left 
unguarded. Hundreds of protest
ers streamed across and walked 
back the intersection of Michigan 
and Balbo between the Hilton and 
the Blackstone.
I walked with the aggregation; 
it was no longer a march, just 
people in small groups. I sudden
ly sneezed and felt a burning in 
rpy nose and throat. The gas that 
had turned them back had been 
blown into the center of town. 
The stuff feels like its eating 
your lungs out. My throat felt 
like I had gargled with sand and 
cotton. My companions and I 
helped a little old lady into a 
hotel. She was pathetic walking 
up the street, hunched over, 
caughing; I think if she had 
been allowed to remain on the 
street, she would have died.
The Vice-president watched 
from his hotel window. The 
breeze and the gas cant tell one 
lung from another, so Mr. Hum
phrey had to take a minor share 
of the gas. That evening he was 
reported slifhtly ill. The next 
evening as I heard him call for 
Law and Order and Peace in 
the streets (but not justice) I 
had to ask Peace at what cost? 
Nobody has answered yet.
as the fringe of the crowd. A 
paddy wagon tore up the street 
and nearly plowed into the sit
ting protesters. Simultaneously 
the police began beating. They 
didnt move in to carry people 
off; they didnt tell people to 
leave; they waded in with clubs, 
then carried off what was left to 
the wagon. Regardless of the 
television coverage, nobody can 
understand what happened unless 
he saw it happen before him and 
appreciate the agony of the vic
tims and his own frustration and 
rage.
This is what I saw; I still see 
it when I close my eyes and am 
carried back to that evening: four 
or five police clambered over 
each other trying to get a stick 
on an unseen protester; whomever 
they were trying to beat didn't 
seem to be fighting back, but 
they appeared to have the bloodlust and couldnt be satiated by 
anything short of wood on bone. 
In their frenzy policemen were 
nearly beating their fellow po
lice, blindly striking out.
After the worst carnage was 
over I remember seeing one vic
tim doubled over on a curb, re
ceiving help from a bystander 
and a first-aid volunteer. The 
entire back of his blond head, a 
solid hemisphere, was matted 
with crimson blood.
I saw why the police had been 
called pigs. I raged with un
controllable fury. Everyone who 
had seen the virtual carnage be
low felt the need to prevent it 
from every happening again. No
body knew how. We seethed in 
frustration.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TART ANWednesday, September 18, 1968
By Don Baer
We run because we like it. Through the broad bright land.
Sorley
I am asked many times Why do you run? The only thing I can 
say is that I like to. I dont really know why I run or why I like to run. 
Running makes me feel good. My grades are better when I run. If 
I am in a very discouraged mood a short run will cheer me up. Some of 
my happiest moments have occurred while running in the rain. It is 
easy to see what happens when I run, but why do I run?
The only equipment that some
one needs is a pair of sneakers 
and a desire to run. The element 
of desire may be what makes the 
sport complex. Ron Clark, a hold
er of several world records in dis
tance running, says that What 
we can enjoy (in running) is our 
exploratory role. We explore 
our mental and physical selves 
when running. Some of the worst 
physical specimens have been 
good runners, and some of the 
people that physically should 
have b&en great runners were 
total flops. Roger Bannister, the 
first person to break four minutes 
in the mile, said  . . . Track 
running offers a different appeal 
from any other sport. It is the 
challenging excitement of a strug
gle which is personal to each ath
lete, a struggle taxing mind and 
body to the utmost. It is a fascina
ting study in black-and white, vir
tues extolled and faults magni
fied thousand fold.
People often tend to form a 
stereotype of a runner. Such 
images do not hold up. At any 
cross-country meet you will see 
runners, the big and the small, the 
shy and the extrovert, the thought
ful and the careless, the neat and 
the sloppy, the smart and the 
dumb. One thing that can be said 
is that running is very personal 
and each person runs for his own 
reason (s). The will to run and to 
win according to Clarke comes 
from within and not from emo
tional speeches. When you run 
you are alone. No one can help 
you, and your performance is 
up to you and not any teammate.
Bannister says that a coach is 
a Guide, philosopher, and 
friend. Different runners need 
different amounts of each of the 
attributes Bannister gave the coach 
Coach Carl Olson the now re
tired CMU, Pitt, and Olympic 
coach was a great coach because 
he knew how to deal with each 
runner as an individual.
The difference in runners is 
also seen in the type of workouts 
that each prefers. Bannister did 
not like to work often. He ran
if one of the participants is not 
trying his hardest to win.
All over the world, where 
competition is secondary, the 
result is that boys are reluctant 
to compete for fear of failure. 
Clarke
Varsity Sports Schedules
Soccer
Sept. 21Allegheny C. C., Home..................................1:30
Sept. 28St. Francis, Home........................................1:30
Oct. 11Grove City, Away.........................................3:00
Oct. 26Pitt Frosh, Home..................................10:30 am
Nov. 2Pitt-Johnstown Campus, Away.....................1:30
Nov. 9Slippery Rock, Away.....................................1:30
Football.........
Sept. 28Thiel, Away..................................................1:30
Oct. 5Oberlin, Home................................................1:30
Oct. 12Grove City....................................................2:00
Oct. 19Allegheny, Home..........................................1:30
Oct. 26F&M, Away..................................................1:30
Nov. 2Johns Hopkins, Home...................................1:30
Nov. 9Adelbert, Home.............................................1:30
Nov. 16W&J, Away..................................................2:00
Cross Country.........
Oct. 5Grove City, Away............................................3:00
Oct. 9Cleveland St. and Adelbert, Away.................4:00
Oct. 12Bethany, Home...........................................11:30
Oct. 16Geneva, Away................................................3:30
Oct. 19St. Francis, Home.......................................11:30
Oct. 23Indiana, Away................................................4:00
Oct. 26Westminster, Home....................................11:30
Nov. 1St. Vincent, Away..........................................4:00
Several quotes about running 
have stuck with me, and possibly 
they will give you some insight
5 * ft if*
^ PELE ^
^ and ^
Santos of Brazil wont appear * 
mostly on stored up energy both iat C-MU on Saturday at 1:30* 
mental and physical. For him frep.m. But the C-MU soccer  
quent competition was impossible. * team will be there trying to win J 
He could not get his mental and * its home opener vs. Allegheny * 
nervous energy up on a moments  C.C. Come to the Tech bowl * 
notice. He worked up slowly for * and see your team in action. * 
big meets. Clarke likes to run + *
freely and on open trails. When *
he is in shape he can compete at 
the world level almost daily 
Clarke will run 17 miles 26 miles 
or even more during a workout gp 
and not think much of it :
The next question to arise might 
possible be about running to win %- ^
At this point I completely agree w
with the philosophy of Ron Clarke
I maintain that enjoyment is ijaBliWBBIIP %
gained from the competition itself, from the intense battle be^
tween evenly balanced com ,4^
petitors. and that the result . S'
scarcely matters 
Clarke
But he believes * *
"The one way to approach gpSfe.
sport is to give everything to 
the task of winning any
competition is less enjoyable byyJeyni
to my thinking and why I run.
My attitude about running.
Athletics is a hobby in which 
Im free to do anything at any 
time. Ron Clarke
How I sometimes feel during a 
race.
If you want to get some where 
you must run at least twice as 
fast as that. Through Look
ing Glass.
Some general thought quotes
Now bid me run, and I will 
strive with things impossible.
J. Ceasar
Every runner is spurred on by 
this; he can not rest until he has 
obtained all that he knows he is 
capable of achieving.
Roger Bannister
Racing has a peculiar simplicity 
in comparison with the rest of 
life, in that a sort of perfection 
is attainable.
Roger Bannister
Seeking fulfilment in distance 
running is like seeking a ShangriLa because the moment one feels 
it is obtained, it vanishes. 
Ron Clarke
If you are a runner, come and 
join the Cross Country team. We 
do not even ask you why you run. 
Practice every week day 4:30 at 
the dressing room in basement of 
Donner Hall.
TARTAN SPORTS
byJeniifyJi ye r 
bDyii bygJADt agJJnDon the Sports Scene
PROLOGUE
The CMU athletic teams of 1968-1969 mav not gain nationwide 
recognition, like Gramhling, Norte Dame and Duquesne, however, 
large scale student participation on the fields and in the stands is re
quired unless we want intercollegiate sports events to become a mori
bund phase of our campus life. By trying out for the varsity teams, 
students with athletic ability can help our university present respect
able squads which we can be proud of - even if they arent national 
champs. Student attendance at varsity events is rarely up to par. And 
it is surprising how much a large partisan crowd can inspire a team, 
even against seemingly better opponents. Besides, its an inexpensive 
way to spend an afternoon or evening and a means of temporary es
cape from a calculus or history text.
Our varsity football team opens its season at Theil on Sept. 28. 
The graduation of Rich Bell, Tom Hubka and Charley Zak leaves the 
team with difficult gaps to fill in an effort to better last years 4-4 
record. With Larry Getto returning in his new role as Tartan quarter
back, and most of last years starters at the same positions, surprises 
like the 41-34 upset of a highly rated Westminster squad may be re
peated. The Tartan pass defense was very weak last season and will 
need bolstering. The home opener against Oberlin on October 5. We 
defeated them 28-14 a year ago.
The Soccer team, which achieved varsity status after performing 
as a club last year, will open its season this Saturday at home against 
Allegheny Community College. Game time is 1:30 p.m. Coach Joseph 
Kruth would appreciate it if all interested students with some ability 
in soccer would try out for the team to help make this maiden season a 
successful one.
Intramural sports begin soon with touch football, tennis and golf. 
With over twenty-five sports open to student and faculty participation, 
CMU has one of the top IM programs among universities. Freshmen 
who are interested in participating in one or more IM sports can organ
ize their own teams from the dorms, classes, etc. Rosters and due dates 
will be available in the IM office (room 104 in the gymnasium).
Positions are open on the Tartan Sports staff for coverage of var
sity and IM sports and WARA activities. Typists are urgently 
needed. All male and female students with an interest in sports may 
apply by leaving a note in the Tartan office, Room 50, Skibo). Please 
include your name, address, experience, and interest. No experience 
is necessary to apply.
