INTERFRATERNITY 
Dance 
TUESDAY NOV. 13(Ihr (Tarimi
FOOTBALL SMOKER 
Union 
SATURDAY NOV. 17
VOL. XII. NO. 8CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIANOV. 7, 1917
Three Colleges to Unite 
In Big Assembly at the 
Syria Mosque for Y. M. C. A.
Students Are to^jTake^ Part 
in Nations Cam
paign
WHITEHAIR TO SPEAK
The students of Pitt, Tech, Penn
sylvania College for Women, PittsTjurgn ana Western Theological Semi
naries are uniting in an effort to raise 
their share of the $74,000 to be raised 
"by the students of Pennsylvania col
leges in support of the Y. M. C. A. 
work among our own troops, those of 
-our allies and the prisoners of war. 
The money to be secured is the stu
dent part of the thirty-five million dol
lars to be raised throughout the coun
try in behalf of the enlisted men. The 
students of the country are to con
tribute one million of the amount 
sought.
The first gun was fired in the local 
student campaign last Thursday even
ing when some hundred representa
tives from the large Pittsburgh insti
tutions gathered at a dinner in the 
parlors of the Belefield Church and 
faced the challenge of unselfish sacri
fice entailed in securing the desired 
-funds. Plans were laid for a general 
mass meeting of all the combined stu
dent bodies to be held in the Syria 
IMosque at 11 oclock Tuesday morn
ing, November 13. The administrative 
bodies of the schools concerned haye 
given their endorsement to this 
unique undertaking and made it possi
ble for the time to be arranged.
The feature of the meeting will be 
the address to be delivered by Charles 
Whitehair, formerly secretary at Cor
nell University who has served several years on the foremost firing line 
engaged in Y. M. C. A. work, among 
the French and Engish soldiers. He 
has first hand experiences from No 
Mans Land which will bring home 
to his hearers the urgency of the cause 
for which he will speak. The occa
sion is expected to be a duplication 
of the great Harry Lauder meeting 
lield last Sunday. The student bodies 
will march into the hall headed by the 
combined Pitt and Tech Military 
bands, ifthe plans of the promoters 
are carried out. The meeting will be 
conducted strictly 011 a patriotic plane 
and the occasion is expected to be a 
memorable one in the student life of 
the city. As the students are expect
ed to more than tax the capacity of 
the hall it is to be regretted that the 
public in general cannot attend. The 
campaign will be conducted during 
the remainder of the week, the final 
announcement of the amount secured 
to be made at the Pitt-Tech football 
game Saturday, November 17.
SANITARY CIVIL DANCE TO OE HELD IN ONION
Plans are now completed for the 
Sanitary-Civil Dance, which will be 
held this coming Friday at the Union. 
The committee is exerting all its ef
fort in making it the foremost affair 
of the season. In order to make it 
novel, the various classes will present 
original clever stunts during the in
termission.
Not only will the hearts be gladden
ed by the enticing music, and the 
minds by the witty performances, but 
the physical side will be satisfied by 
refreshments. The Union will be dec
orated by pennants and pictures loan
ed by the members for that evening. 
Anyone who has not as yet brought a 
pennant and banner, should bring . it 
tomorrow.
, The purpose of this affair is to help 
furnish Room 50, which is the C. E. 
and Sanitary club room, but is used 
as the rendezvous of all school. Every
one is urged to attend the feature af
fair of the season and at the same 
time help furnish one of the schools 
rooms. Plans .are being made to post
pone the night classes of the C. E.
I Department, so as to enable everyone 
to attend.
PLANS COMPLETED FDD INTERFRATERNITY DANCE
The inter-fraternity dance is to be 
held in Carnegie Union on Tuesday 
evening, November 13. The commit
tee in charge is as follows: Davis, Xi 
Sigma, chairman; Muller, Sigma Tau; 
King, Sigma. Rho; Sweeney, Sigma 
Nu; Miller, Tau Gamme Phi; Pitts, 
Thta Xi; Brider, Woodlawn Club; 
Parker, Zeta Lambda.
A large crowd is expected, perhaps 
enough to fill the Union. The assess
ment is $1.50.
COMMONS CLUD GIVES HOUSE PARTY AND DANCE
The Carnegie Chapter of the Na
tional Federation of Commons Clubs 
gave a delightful little party last Fri
day evening, to celebrate Halloween 
of 1018 a little in advance. The house 
at 1046 Murray Hill avenue, was ap
propriately decorated for the occasion, 
with plenty of apples, cider, cakes and 
punch to carry the spirit of the oc
casion.
Sweeneys orchestra furnished the 
music until the time came, for the 
young ladies to leave.
Mr7 and Mrs. Barnes, and Miss The
odora Briggs, of the M. M. C. S. were 
the' chaperones.
SCIENCE PLEDE SMOKER PROVES GREAT SUCCESS
The smoker given by the Science 
Plebes last Friday night in the Car
negie Union was in every respect a 
decided success. The committee in 
charge of the event were: J. B. Mc
Mahon, chairman; J. B. Serrin, A. C. 
May, and C. T. McClean. President 
C. J. Copley, was master of ceremon
ies.
The. guests of honor were: Director 
I-Iamerschlag, Dean, Mott, Doctor Har
ris, Doctor Esquerre, Professor Fol
lows, the Science Plebe Faculty, Sci
ence Senior class.
The program was as follows: 
Assembly called to order..................
...............................President Copley
Address ...............................Dean Mott
Address ...........Director I-Iamerschlag
(Continued on Page Two.)
DRAMATIC DEPARTMENT TO RENDJRJEW PLAYS
The Dramatic Department will give 
a matinee performance of The 
Daimios Head, a Japanese Masque, 
written by Thos. Wood Stevens and 
Kenneth Sawyer Goodman, on Friday 
afternoon, November 0 at 4:30. No 
tickets required. The play will be re
peated on the evening of November 
15, before the conference of Urban 
Universities.
Sweethearts, a play by W. S. Gil
bert, is under rehearsal and will be 
produced at a matinee, Friday after
noon, November 16. Students are in
vited to attend.
EDITORIAL1 s
IS r]
The general assembly at the Music Hall this mqrning is the first 
to be held under the direction of the president of the Central Council 
of the four schools. At that meeting student affairs are to be the sole 
topic of discussion, and of those affairs the muddle which has arisen 
over gymnasium work is probably the most important. Realizing that 
it would be absolutely impossible for a crowd of students to decide a 
matter upon which they have only the haziest sort of information, The 
Tartan is attempting to give here a fair and square history of the 
whole situation and to present all viewpoints without being biased by 
our own opinion.
On March 21, 1917, the men of ithe .student body unanimously 
declared in favor of military training and petitioned the executive 
council of the Institute to institute a system such as was proposed by 
the Student Committee 011 Militaiy Affairs, T. E. Orr, chairman. On 
April 12, the first drill was held, attendance being voluntary, blit 
later students not attending were required to take gymnasium work 
instead. The support from the student body was enthusiastic and 
apparently whole-hearted for six or seven weeks, but during the 
man}' affairs of the closing days of school, interest began to wane.
Apparently popular opinion at the beginning of this year took 
(Continued on Page Two.)
FIRST PERFORMANCE OF ENGAGED WELL RECEIVED
The permire offering of the Depart
ment of Dramatic Art was W. S. Gil
berts three act farcial comedy, En
gaged, given at a matinee perform
ance on Friday afternoon, November 
2, in Theatre of School of Applied 
Design. The play was well received; 
the work of the cast often being pretty 
evenly balanced, made it a very 
smooth performance as compared with 
much that has gone before.
The play takes place on the border 
between Engand and Scotland and 
hinges on the Scotch marriage law 
out of which all the 
arise. It affords great opportunity for 
good character acting and the cast 
made good use of the opportunity.
Undoubtedly the lions share of pop
ularity fell to Mr. David Gaither, asAugus Macalister, the lowland lad, 
whose make-up alone was enough to 
convulse the house:
Miss Beatrice Heinrichs "Maggie, 
(" a verra guid girl,) was given with 
a naive charm which is all her own.
Mr. James Church was especially 
well cast as Belrawney, the sinister 
member of society-plotting for his own 
welfare.
Mr. Hubbard Kirlcpntries Cheviot 
I-Iiil, a young man of property, was 
the heavy role as regards lines, 
etc., arid he made it very interesting 
throughout, as he does with most parts 
that he undertakes. Mr. George Traberts "Major McGillicuddy was greet
ed with applause. He made the most 
of a brief interval, while Mr. Buchanons Mr. Symperson the father of 
Minnie was an excellent bit of work, 
the make-up being particularly good.
Miss Mary Ricards made "simple, 
innocent little Minnie a most inter, (Continued on Page Two.)
K1SKI SQUAD DEFEATS RESERVES ON DAD FIELD
In a game which fairly dragged 
along, Kiski defeated the Reserves 
last Saturday. Outweighed and out
played they fell easy victims to the 
more experienced prep-scliool team. 
Although the weather was fair the field 
was ip bad shape, and after the first 
few minutes of play it was difficult 
to distinguish the players. There is 
110 discredit to this defeat as the 
scrubs have had little %or no training 
in the finer points of the game. This 
was their second game of the season. 
They have had little time of their own 
complications I to perfect, plays and formations, as 
they have beeh used nightly as a 
means of training the varsity. They 
played the game with the usual game
ness of a regular Tech team.
The--first quarter startod off like a 
close game, Kiski making little gains 
through the scrubs line, but gradual
ly the defense broke down until Kiski 
ran through at will. Saylor was a 
stronghold at left, guard and seomod 
to be the only man who had the com
bination of the Kiski line. After Swift, 
went into Cull, the scrubs braced Cor 
a Cow plays but it did not last.
Kiskis whole game was played be
tween Dempsey and Davies who did 
the ground gaining and scoring Cor 
the prep-scliool team.. Davies also 
did the kicking, missing only one goal. 
Too much credit can not be glvon to 
these men.
The Reserves won the toss and aCter they kicked off Cor the first time, 
it was seldom that Tech had tho ball, 
as Kiski kept them mostly 011 the de
fensive and when tho Scrubs had the 
ball it was always necessary to kick. 
Very few forward passes were used, 
and in only two instances were they 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Athletic Editors Story 
Of Cornells Attack on 
Tech Football Warriors
BLOOM WITH BALL
BIG SMOKER IN UNION AFTER TJMITT GAME
The football smoker is to be held 
this year as usual on the evening of 
the Pitt game. The Varsity Clan 
banquet and meeting comes immedi
ately after the game, and following 
that the smoker in, the Union at S:30. 
The football smoker has always been 
the most enthusiastic affair of the 
whole football season. It attracts a 
large crowd of alumni, and is usual
ly enlivened by the antics of our red 
headed cheer leader from Wheeling. 
It is the one time of the year when 
everyone has a chance to get a 
"close-up of the whole football 
team. It is the time when the new 
captain is announced and the retir
ing captain makes his farewell to 
the student body.
In the second place It is the best op
portunity in the world to do some
thing for the athletic association. The 
association is not any too well oCC this 
year, and the support is doubly need
ed.
Finally the affair always provides a 
maximum of entertainment Cor the 
fiCty cents charged Cor admission. 
Manager Mills, who is in charge of 
the affair, assures an excellent pro
gram and menu. In the Union there 
will be wrestling and boxing, music, 
songs and speeches. In tho beanery 
there will be cider and doughnuts.
Saturday night, Nov. 17, Is the time 
to help make this football smoker a 
record one.
DESIGN STUDENTS DECIDE 
TO GIVE BENEFIT DANCE
A very Interesting meeting oC tho 
student body of Design School was 
held on Wednesday, October 30, In 
the theatre. After a lecture by A. H. 
Wlliets, tho fourth of a series on so
cial questions, Mi-. Brommer, Design 
School President took charge of tho 
meeting. 1-Ie introduced Sorgt. Harry 
Aspinwall, a former studont oC archltocturo, who gavo a very interesting 
talk 011 the liCe at Camp Loo. The 
information was "first; hand" and from 
(Continued 011 Page Two.)
FACULTY ENTERTAINED AT DOME OFDEAN BREED
On Saturday, October 27, Dean Mary 
B. Breed gave a tea in her home in 
Westminister place Cor tho members 
oC the Margaret Morrison faculty, tho 
Director and his wiCo and the deans 
of the other three schools with their 
wives. Autumn decorations wore 
used, amid which Mrs, Breed, tho 
dean's mother, poured.
Two Touchdowns and Two 
Field Goals Net Twenty 
Points
JONES STARS
SCIENCE NEEDLE CLUB CELEBRATES HALLOWEEN
A Hallaween Dance was given by 
the 'Science Needle Club last Satur
day evening in honor of the members 
of the Science School faculty. The 
affair was held in Carnegie Union. 
The Science Needle Club consists of 
the wives of the Science faculty mem
bers. About fifty persons were pres
ent and the dance was pronounced a 
great success. The arrangements were 
supervised by Mrs. James and Mrs. 
Trinks.
Among those present were former 
Dean Leete and Mrs. Leete.
MISS COLEMAN ASSUMES DUTIES ASJHAPERONE
On account of ill health, Dr. Stock
ing of Forbes Hall is giving up her 
charge as chaperone. Miss Coleman 
of the Physical Education Department 
will take the duties oC chaperone this 
week, with Miss Gail Sellers as assisttant chaperone.
ILLUSTRATION STUDENTS COMPETE FOP POIZES
Practically all the students of the 
Illustration Course have contributed 
.posters to the Hoover Contest. The 
prizes have not yet been awarded, but 
the Food Conservation Committee, 
who received them, fjpoke very highly 
of the work.
GRETZLEI* STOPPING VANHORN
ISr ]
* RED CROSS BENEFIT DANCE *
* FOR YARN FUND *
ISr --------------- *2*
* Saturday evening, November * j 
+ 10, 1017. 8 to 12 p. m.
2* Carnegie Union. $1.00 per *2* 
> couple. *
* DRAM JAZZ BAND *
* *
~ "4,'}  .w.
Cornell defeated the Plaid Varsity 
twenty to nothing on Schoelkopf Field, 
Ithaca last Saturday. The showing of 
the Tech team was quite commend
able in certain respects, but in others 
their playing was woefully below stan
dard. The work on the' defensive was 
for tho most part fine. This is par
ticularly true or the line, but the sec
ondary defense on several occasions 
failed to prevent long gains.
Four times during the first half, the 
Red team was in possession of the 
ball inside the Tech 5-yard line and 
as often did the Tech line hold like a 
stone wall. On one of the these oc
casions Hoffman, the Cornell Captain, 
fell back and drop kicked goal for tho 
only score of the half. During this 
period, however, the Plaid attack did 
not seriously threaten the Cornell 
goal.
On tho first play nftor tho kick-off 
in the second half, Nothercott broke 
away around left end and dashed sixtyfive yards for a touchdown. The Cor
nell backs aCter this were able to gain 
through their right line 011 numerous 
occasions. Their mass interCerenco 
took out the line and tho runners froquontly made substantial gains before 
the Plakl secondary dolonse mailed 
I hem. Hoffman kicked another fiold 
goal during tho third period.
Although Cross managed to plunge 
through tho line in the last period, tho 
Tech team seemed to regain its wind 
and was holding the Red fairly con
sistently.
or tho Tech team Jones, McFeators 
and Fox deserve special note.1 When 
Cornell started to gain in the second 
half, Jones fought like a virtual dem
on, tearing through arid spilling I heir 
backs before thoy could got started. 
So frequently did I10 sift through that 
Coach Sharpe shifted two now men 
in to oppose him. MeFontors fought 
hard throughout the game and play
ed consistently. Fox broke through 
on numerous occasions and took out 
tho Cornell backs. Vet Williams 
played his usual hard game. Early 
and Ginn were unable to play up to 
usual standard because of Injuries.
Nothercott starred Cor Cornell. He 
Is a fast man and was vory difficult 
to^ stop at tho ends. I-Ioffman kicked 
well, but was unable to gain to any 
groat extent.
The work of the officials was often 
quite questionable. They had fro~ (Continued 011 Pago Three.)
FIFTH AVENUE DALL HOLDS DINNER PARTY
The annual Halloween party at 
Fifth Avenue Hall this year, took the 
form of a dinner party on Tuesday 
evening, October 30. The dining room 
was decorated in colored shades and 
was lighted by candles. The girls 
masqueraded to dinner, and at each 
place was a black catthe favor. The 
evening was spent in playing Hallo
ween, games and dancing.
DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE CONSULTS WITH DR. LANG
Last, week, Dr. Lang of the M. M. 
C. S. Science Department, was called 
to Washington by the Department of 
Agriculture to consult about a poison 
which had developed in the canning 
of fruits and vegetables.
Dr. Lang left on Thursday and re
turned last Tuesday.
Dean Breed returned Monday from 
a business trip to New York.
I2* * *2* *2* *2* 2 *2* *2* 4* * *2 4* I * * *1 *2 *1*
* *
* DESIGN DANCE COMMITTEE
I* Architect
-I* Nelson P. Rice, chairman
I* Alex Sharon
* P. & D.
* James C. Stuart
2 Miss Esther Topp I
?2 Music 4
* Robert T. McGowan 2*
2 Miss Alix Elnert *2
*2 Drama 2
2 James S. Church ^
*2 Miss Marguerite Bollinger *2*
2 Meeting  Monday afternoon, 4*
2* November 12, 1017. Room 107. *2*
2 4:30 p. m. *2
* *2
I5* *2* *1 *2* *2* IS* *2* 'b *2* * *2* *2**1* *2 *2* *2* *2* 2

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TARTAN
fyr aria
Wednesday, November 7, 1917
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates o tho Carnegie Institute fchnolocv.of Technology.
Entered In tho poHtoillco of Pittsburgh as second-claas matter. 
SUBSCEIPTIN RATES
Yearly, $1,S05c tho copyCanada, 1.75
Editor-in-Chlcf..................................................................................Paul II. Armor
Buslnc80 Manager  .....................................................................Nelson P. Rice
Phone Schenley 1G7
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquln 
Asclstant Managing Editor 
 K. L. Emerich 
Editors 
Marguerite Bollinger 
Salome Stamm 
P. S. McNamara 
Jobeph Levin
Design Assistants
Ellen Crowe 
James Church 
Scicncc Assistants 
Meinhold Bingham
M. M. C. S. Assistants 
Marguerite Haldeman 
Margaret Lappe 
Anne McCandlass 
Lydia McCarthy 
Athletic Editor 
H. II. Blau 
8taff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
BUSINESS 
Manager Mailing List 
H. R. Titus 
Circulation Manager 
II. W. Anderson 
Exchange Manager 
J. L. Ilerrman
Manager. This side of the staff: provides a business experience which 
comes to no other persons in school with the possible exception of the 
managers of the varsity teams, and it is probable that even they do 
not gain so extensive a fund of business information.
Candidates for either side of the staff should report to The 
Tartan office, Thursday, at 4:30 P. M.
P. 1)1 iMU/ WDITFQ flP tho Ithacan course Saturday. Tech0IlUl\ W AuuLIi IT III I Lu Ur land Penn were never within striking
distance. The final score was Cornell 
44, Pehn 78 and Tech 150. The scores 
were the sum of the order in which 
the men of each team finished.EXPERIENCES IN FRANCE
TARTAN OFFICE..
Hours--2:00 to 4:00 Mondays. 
4:30 to 5:00 Wednesdaysand
.........Room 162, Design
Thursdays.
The Editor-in-chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for tho make up.
All business communications should u sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postofiice, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays. 28
KlEDITORIAL
(Continued From Page One.) 
the renewal of drill as a matter of course, and scarcely a protest was 
heard, even when drill was announced as compulsory. It was indeed 
unexpected, then, when the executive council of the Institute pre
cipitously decided that, the whole system should be abandoned, and 
this without consulting the student body which had started the 
thing. That action was hardly consistent with the pride which some 
of these very men themselves had taken in the fact that Carnegie 
Tech was the one school in the country where military drill was in
stalled at the request of the students. Their reason for abandon
ment, as announced at the general assembly on September 26, was the 
fact that the IJ. S. government had refused to recognize Tech as a 
reserve officers training school, and consequently they believed that 
drill with on I; the atmosphere which comes from official arms, uniforms 
and commanding officers would not be supported. However, it must 
be understood I lint the authorities of the school themselves hud failed 
to make application to the government soon enough, and that they 
had failed to secure the arms which were promised to Prof. Keller 
because of some mixup over the slight matter of a $350 bond.
Instead of drill the executive council ordered an hour a day of 
Netting up exercises. Beyond that order, however, nothing was done. 
After six or seven weeks with similar lack of action, it became ap
parent even to the most disinterested that, not only had the authorities 
abolished the students plan for military drill, but also they wore 
failing to back their own plan for setting up exercises.
Such was the situation two weeks ago when The Tartan stirred 
things up with the pertinent question as to what had become of the 
long-delayed exercises. As we staked later, that editorial was pub
lished not so much because wo favored gymnasium work, but rather 
because we did not I'avor the Vuecillation everywhere so prevalent. 
In publishing it we certainly supposed that the administration had 
some well defined scheme by which the work which had been an
nounced would be given and the objections of the students removed.
After a weeks experience it is all too plain that we were wrong, 
and that even the most violent objectors had not condemned suffi
ciently the work AS IT IS BEING GIVEN. Just for example, we 
find that in the Science School the original schedule, in the upper 
classes, at least, had been made out with utter diregard of this work 
which had been ordered by the executive council, and that the sched
ule cannot now be rearranged because of the decrease in teaching 
staff. Consequently gymnasium hours have been spattered through 
the schedule for all the world like bits of mud thrown in without 
rhyme or reason. In the second place, we find the students exercisin, 
in their street clothes, wiping up the floor with them, and then not 
taking a bath. We find the department of health unable to remedy 
that situation because of lack of facilities. And finally we find one 
of the members of the executive council himself admitting that the 
whole thing is a muddle.
That brings us up to date. However, it is in one thing alone that 
the students are practically unanimous, and that is in the objection to 
gym as it is given. Otherwise they are divided into three factions, 
one favoring the entire abandonment of all form of exercise and the 
utter disregard of national conditi5jis as they exist, a second favoring 
gymnasium work and the third advocating a request to the executive 
council to readopt the drill which the students originally instituted. 
That is the whole situation.
The following letter was received a 
few days ago by the editor of the 
Tartan. II. is from Brunwasser, whom 
overyone remembers for his brilliant 
playing on Tech's football team, and 
from whom all will be glad to hear: 
You will have to excuse me for not 
writing sooner, but you must bear in 
mind the present conditions. To be 
brief, there's not much doing. At pres
ent I'm out on a big job with a small 
party. Corporal Watson, Corporal 
Bucher, Llppincott and Strong are^the 
other Tech men here. It is a dalndy 
place, way out in the' country and 
about ten miles from nowhere.# We 
are surrounded by some very beautiful 
chateaux'* and nut and fruit trees of 
all descriptions. I've eaten more nuts 
here than ever before in my entire 
life. I havent seen Sunny Kesner 
or the other Tech boys for some long 
time now. Im a bit lonesome  for 
school and football, but you know 
what must come first. Last Sunday 
about 10 p. m. (4 p. in. U. S. time) we 
gave a Tech accenter for the TechYale game. We got I-I-------- for the
disturbance, but what's the diff, such 
a. yell is worth it. The boys here are 
anxious to get the Tartan, if only 
one (1) once in a while. Captain Stan 
ton says that you have more Plebes 
than ever at school.
Well, thats about all I can tell 
you. Give my best to the boys and 
Profs, at school. Send me some news, 
and get some of the fellows to do so."
Your friend,
BRUNNY.
Address:
Private Alex. Brunwasser,
Go. C, 15th U. S. Engineers (Res.)
American Expeditionary Force, 
Yia New York.
KISKI SQUAD DEFEATS RE
SERVES ON BAD FIELD
(Continued Prom Pace One.) 
ground gainers. Kiski made most of 
their gains by straight linebucks and 
plays that had their path through the 
tackle position. The Reserves gained 
a few yards on bucks, although they 
seldon had the ball in their posses
sion over two or three downs at a 
time.
In the first quarter, after the kickThe most spectacular feature of the' off, Kiski punted and forced the scrubs
MUSIC STUDENTS G1VF, VERY ENJOYABLE DANCE
On November 2 the Music Depart
ment gave a highly successful dance 
for the Design School. There were 
about ten pieces in (lie orchestraAll 
music students and every one a first 
rate player. Their generosity; in play
ing for the dance was greatly appreci
ated. There have been few orchestras 
in the Design Foyer to equal that of 
the Music Departmenteven the pro
fessional orchestra at last years ball.
The Design students as usual made 
the dance a success with their con
genial spirit. When the lights blink
ed at 12 oclock, they all united in one 
big sigh of disappointment. Pretzels 
and cider were the delicatessen fea
ture.
All Design School unites in giving 
Mr. O'Brien and his musical proteges 
one big hearty vote of thanks.
meet was the sprint by Kossler of 
Tech on the home stretch. The crowd 
rose to its feet when lie, after enter
ing the field with a forty yard handi
cap, came abreast of Finn on the home 
stretch and led the Cornell man over 
the finish by a scant two feet. Cap
tain Benter and Ferguson of Tech al
so finished well.
The showing of the Tech team was 
fairly good when the disadvantages 
against which they fought are consid
ered. They entered the meet unex
pectedly and had had no -training 
table. They competed with teams 
which had been primed for the occa
sion for two months and which had 
the best means available of prepar
ing them for the meet.
The runners finished in the follow
ing order:
Dresser, Cornell; Spear, Cornell 
Mcl-Iale, Pennsylvania; Cunningham. 
Pennsylvania; Maynard, Cornell; Croxton, Cornell; Colver, Pennsylvania 
Price, Pennsylvania; Abbott, Cornell 
Spreng, Cornell; Seelbach, Cornell 
Yost, Cornell; Kossler, Tech; Finn, 
Cornell; Brooks, Pennsylvania; Fer
guson, Tech; Robinson, Cornell; Howe, 
Cornell; Benter, Tech; Hall, Pennsyl 
va,nia; Erdman, Pennsylvania; Tuttle; 
Cornell; Fortier, Cornell; Livingston, 
Tech; Juergens, Tech; Mortenson, 
Tech; Bingham, Tech.
MR. CRNRAR ARDRESSES INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
TARTAN STAFF
DESIGN STUDENTS DECIDE
TO GIVE BENEFIT DANCE
(Continued From Pago One.)
his talk we feel quite satisfied tluit 
Uncle Sams men are well taken care 
ofin their cantonments.
At the request of the Doan a com
mittee representing students from the 
various departments had met with 
Dean Bossange and Mr. Hornbostel, 
last week to discuss the question of 
the Design Annual Costume Ball. The 
Doan and many of the faculty were in 
favor of substituting for It a Red Cross !
Bazaar. Mr. Hornbostel suggested 
that we hold a Benefit Dance and con
tribute gifts to the soldiers. Because 
the Costume Ball has been a school 
tradition, combining the study of art 
with pleasure, many of the students
did not wish to give it up. After much j ___uliI,1U|J
discussion it was finally decided to ( clothing, and for
At the regular student assembly of 
the students of the School of Applied 
Industries Wednesday, October 31, 
Miss Mac Martin issued a plea for the 
generosity of the students in the col
lection for old clothes to aid the 
French and Belgian men and Avomen 
who are now suffering so keenly for 
want of them.
It is estimated that 1,000 men come 
from the German lines into France 
every day, and one can easily guess 
in what condition they would be found.'
Mr. Barnes later introduced Mr. 
Conrad, head of the C. I. T. settlement 
in Soho. Mr. Conrad explained that 
settlement work was more than tak
ing baskets to the poor, during the 
holidays. It is a profession, taking 
as its aim the solution of industrial, 
social and political problems. Men 
are needed to carry on work already 
startedto organize clubs among the 
boys. Students of the School of Ap
plied Industries intend to be indus
trial leaders. What do they know 
about the foreigners? Here is a chance 
to broaden his education and do good 
service besides.
MADAME RITZ SPEAKS TDM.M.C. S. ASSEMBLY
recommend to the student body that 
we do not. havei the Costume Ball dur
ing the calendar year of 1917, and that 
we do not hold any other ball to take 
its place. If in the spring things have 
changed we may still have our De
sign Costume Ball.
These recommendations were then 
read to the student assembly on Wed
nesday, after which the meeting -was 
turned over to discussios, but there 
was little opposition as everyone felt 
that under the circumstances it was 
best to adopt the recommendations of 
the committee. It was then voted to 
have some sort of an affair," the 
prime object of which would be to 
extend to the soldiers in the trenches 
some of the cheer which would pre
dominate at such a time. The details 
of this affair" will be arranged by a 
comm it toe appointed by the president. 
It is hoped that in carrying out this 
plan the students of Design 'School 
will be doing something entirely or
iginal In the lino of relief for the sol
diers. With original work and en
thusiasm the affair should prove a 
great success.
The feature of the regular Margaret 
Morrison assembly on October 31 was 
the address of Madame Ritz in behalf 
of the French and Belgian orphans and 
refugees. Madame Ritz is thoroughly 
familiar with all phrases of the war. 
Her home is in France and her heart 
is with the cause of righteousness for 
which the, Allies are fighting. She 
did not beg* for the French but simply 
stated facts which were enough of a 
plea to move any normal being. Con
ditions which she described are appaling and Americans are supporting 
their own cause when they help to 
alleviate them.
Madame Ritz is working in co-opera
tion with Dr. Blair, now in France. 
The crying need is for clean, warm 
money. Under the
to return it. Matthews made a poor 
attempt and it was blocked, Gove 
dropped upon it. The ball was kept 
traveling back and forth until Davies 
made a touchdown after he and Demp
sey had bucked their way down the 
field.
The quarter ended with the ball on 
Reserves' 40-yard line.
The second quarter started by 
couple of bucks by Tech after which 
she tried to pass. Clauson intercept
ed it and ran back for 10 yards. Dav
ies and Dempsey tried a few tackle 
plays, and in the fourth attempt Demp
sey went through for a1 touchdown. 
Davies made a pretty kick. In this 
quarter Allebrand of Kiski tried a 
drop kick, but was unsuccessful.
In the third quarter Kiski played 
harder than before. Davies made the 
prettiest play of the game when he 
ran the kickoff back for 60 yards. 
Clauson then went through guard for 
another touchdown. Davies kicked 
goal.
While the Reserves were objecting 
to the manner in which Davies made 
a pass, Davies carried the ball across 
the goal and counted another score. 
His kick then made the score 27 to 0. 
In the following plays after Tech had 
kicked, Kiski scored again, Davies 
again scoring and kicking.
In the last quarter, Dempsey buck
ed his way through for another touch
down. Davies kicked. The Kiski line
up at this time was mostly reserves 
and the Scrubs were in a bad way.
For the Reserves Saylor and Ander
son have been mentioned. Besides 
them Swift at full and Gare at center 
did a lot of good work for their team. 
Lineup:
Tech Reserves Kiski
Hoffman .........L. E.................. Ewing
Powers ...........L. T..................... Conti
Saylor ..............L. G.................... Swab
Gare ...................C....................... Stein |
ZfoNewIctfl
ThhreCOLLAR
Q0!r
CHURCHES
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL, 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Parish Hall and Gymnasium, Craigstreet.
THE FRIENDLY CHURCH 
GRACE CHURCH (Reformed)
Four Blocks from Tech 
DITHRIDGE AND BAYARD STS.
FREDERICK C. NAU, Pastor. 
SERVICES:Sunday School, 9:45- 
A. M.; Morning Worship and Sermon, 
11; Popular Evening Service, 7:45; 
Christian Endeavor, 7. Wednesday Evening at 8.
Atty. JOS. R. CONRAD teaches Men's 
Bible Class, 9:45, Sunday. 
Students! Make yourselves at homein Grace Church.
ST. ANDREW'S EVANGELICAL 
LUTHERAN CHURCH 
Centre and Morewood Avenues 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bible Classes at 9:30 A. M.
Morning Worship, 10:45; Evening,.. 
7:45. Helpful sermons on Bible 
themes only.
A hearty welcome to students. 
HENRY P. ECKHARDT, Pastor.
Lawrence | 
Edgar
Cropper
. Davies 
Dempsey 
Clauson 
Allebrand
Henderson ___R. G..
Hedlund ...........R. T..
Kramer ........,..R. E..
Gove .....................Q...
Anderson ..........L. I-I.
Mathews ...........R. VVO
Swift rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr  rrFrrr
TouchdownsDempsey 3, Davies 2, 
Causn. GoalsDavies 5. Substitu 
tionsGood for Anderson, Chapman 
for Ewing, Raymond for Mathews, McNary for Davies, Snyder for Conti. 
Buchanon for Clauson, Permenti for 
Swab, Bryson for Edgar, Spence for 
Lawrence. Time of quarters15 min
utes. RefereeMauthe of Penn State. 
UmpireI-I. J. Blum, unattached. Head 
linesmanI-Ieming of Penn State.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS, 
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. M. and 7:45-
FIRST PERFORMANCE OF
ENGAGED WELL RECEIVED
(Continued From Page One.) 
esting and amusing character.
Miss Esther Fromme was most 
happily cast as Belinda Teherne, 
whose perplexity, over what she was 
or was not, made her one of the most 
interesting characters in the play. It 
is one of the best things she has done.
Miss Ellen Crowe as Parker, the 
maid and Miss Brownen Chuble as 
"Mrs. MacFarlane, a. lowland widow 
filled small parts, exceptionally well.
Mr. George Trabert acted as stage 
manager.
direction of Miss Phyllis McMarlin, 
extensive work for Civilian Relief is 
being organized in Tech.
The Tartan finds itself badly in nped of men oh both sections of 
the staff. This issue marks tho last whose make-up will be super
vised by A. I). Hauer as managing editor. He is leaving school to un
dertake chemical work in a 1. N. T. plant, one of the many whose 
product; is so badly needed by the government in the prosecution of 
the Avar. Consequently the whole stall has been moved up a step 
with Ii. K. Paquin now managing editor, and for that reason, if no 
otto, there is plenty of opportunity for a member of one of the 
lower classes to start now and work himself rapidly into one of the 
executive positions of the stall'. The editorial work provides a wonder
ful source of experience, gained at first in the interviewing work 
necessary, and later in the directing of other men which comes to the 
heads of the staff.
On the business side Manager Rice now has only two assistants; 
consequently it is not too late to enter the competition for next years 
Advertising Manager, Assistant Business Manager, or even Business j enn teams Yu a triangular meet
CROSS COUNTRY TEAM LOSES TRIANGULAR MEET
Captain Ivan Dresser, the veteran 
harrier, led the Cornell Cross Country 
Team to victory over the Tech and 
over
GUILD MAKES PLANS FOR CHRISTMAS PARTY
The M. M. C. S. Guild has already 
made wonderful plans for the annual 
Christmas party. This year it is to 
be held in the Union. Booths repre
senting our allied nationsFrance, 
Great Britain, Japan, Italy, Russia and 
Roumaniawill be in charge of a com
mittee of girls., Costume and social 
dancing will fill up the evening.
FORBES HALL GIRLS CELEBRATE HALLOWEEN
Under 'the wierd glow of goblin 
lights and appropriate Halloween dec
orations, the upperclassmen of Forbes 
Hall met the new girls for an evening 
of fun and mystery. The first feature 
was a grand march. The judges, Miss 
Coleman and Miss Gail Sellers, chose 
the most original costume and Miss 
Lois Cochrane, dressed as a fat pump
kin, won the prize. The next: act was 
the apearance of a famous spiritualist, 
Madame Carpetchesky alias Martha 
Clieves, who told the girls many start
ing facts about the past, present, and
SCIENCE PLEBE SMOKER
PROVES GREAT SUCCESS
(Continued From Page One.)
Song........................Leonardand Spring
Address .......................Doctor Esquerre
Song ...................................Hans Muller
Address ................Professor Follows
Address ............................Doctor Harris
Entertainment De Luxe..Hans Muller 
Singing of the Alma Mater.Everybody 
There was singing and cheering be
tween each number on the program.
The general get-together and re
freshments by no means were of small 
account. The doughnuts and cider 
mingled with singing, cheering and 
greeting and the rich oder of good 
cigars and cigarettes make a. combina
tion with good-fellowship, never to be 
forgotten. Many delightful individual 
stunts were pulled off. Among these 
were the famous-to-be Bacteria Hall 
accenter, quaint daijces, short vaude
ville performances and the like.
Before the happy occasion began, a 
number of Sophomores headed by one 
of their more or less notorious num
ber, succeeded in stealing from the 
coffers of the committee several boxes 
of doughnuts. Fortunately things man
aged to adjust themselves so their 
loss was not. noticeable.
The program of popular songs sung 
by those present was continued later 
on, and many even danced to the mu
sic of the novel orchestra.
future. The Forbes Hall Glee Club 
then gave some hot air selections 
which abounded in harmony. The re
mainder of the evening was spent in 
Halloween games and dancing.
At 10:45 the new girls were usher
ed into the dining-room where they 
enjoyed an elaborate spread. The 
party then broke up with a round of 
merriment. I
Bible Class, 10:0.0 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
(Fifth and Bellefield.)
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN 
M. A. (Glasgow) r 
D. D. (Pittsbugh) 
will preach at 11 and 8. 
Bible School 9:45. 
Christian Endeavor 7.
Dr. MacGowan is here to help 
the students. For conference 
ring Schenley 3447.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M.anci 8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
Students Cordially Invited
--------to the---------
YOUNG MENS BARACA BIBLE 
CLASS
Every Sunday Morning9:45
---------at---------
OAKLAND BAPTIST CHURCH 
McKEE PLACE and LOUISA STREET 
COME,.VISIT US and enjoy an hour 
with the real Bible as it appeals to 
real men.
How to Grow Broad and Thin at 
the Same Time, or Modern Liberalism 
n Theology and Morals.
Hear this sermon by Reverend 
George Avery Neeld, Minister, at the 
OAKLAND METHODIST EPISCOPAL 
CHURCH 
Forbes and Boquet Streets 
Sunday Evening, November 11, 1917r at 7:45 oclock.
Morning services at 10:45. Bible 
School at 9:30. Special classes for 
young men and women.
W. O. Breckon
STUDIOS
FORBES AND ATWOOD STS.
Phones 1603161 Schenley 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH
EHsisiaiaraaMSHaaEEiaaaaaiajaMaMai
GET YOUR HAIR CUT S 
--------at the--------
TECH BARBES SHOP
Nearest to Tech 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 7, 1917THE TARTANPage Tkre
DO YOU DANCE? 
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
Special Class for High School and College Students, Starting Mon
day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL P
^j2MSi3MSMM@M3M3M3MSM3M3M3M3M3M3M3I3M3MSMM3M3M3M3Ji
The Dansant 
EaH FuNers Jass Band
DIRECT FROM RECTORS, N. Y.
IN CONJUNCTION WITH RIEHLS NOVELTY ORCHESTRA 
Will Open a Season Engagement at the
Duquesne Garden Ball Room]
ON SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 27TH, 1917
Mr. W. E. McCoy and Miss Helen Withum
-THE DANSANTSTUESDAY, THURSDAY AND SATURDAY EVENINGS
' SUBSCRIPTION, $1.50 
J2M3MSM3MM2M3M2MSM3M3M3ISjSMSMSM3MSI3M3M3M3MM3M3MSM3M3J3Mcij
IBATTERY
**tfce436 Seventh Ave. | 
All Kinds of BATTERIES |
Repaired and Recharged
. _____ pSERVICE
CITY ELECTRIC CO.
IIIII!!I!IIIIIIIII1XIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIII!H
MellonNationalBank
PITTSBURGH 
1 510-514 Smithfield St.
409 413 Fifth Ave. | 
 1 406-410 Oliver Ave.
: Capital-------$6,000,000 I
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
IniBiiiiinniiiiiiiininniiiniiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiniiniiiiinniiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiniiiiniiiT
The Crisis
WINSTON CHURCHILL
CAMERAPHONE THEATRE
EAST LIBERTY 
Entire Week Beginning 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5TH 
ADMISSION, ADULTS 15 and 25 cents 
CHILDREN 10 cents
CLOSES
iSISMSMMSMSMSMSMclMSJclMSMSMSIS 
 STUDENT LUNCHEON 
Milk or Coffee. 5c Pie, 5c per cut 
Hot Chocolate, 10c 
Ham or Cheese Sandwich, 5c
Rolls and Butter, 5c 
Ice Cream, 10c
THE HALLER BAKERY 
3610 FORBES STREET 
 Iroquois Block.
iQ!M3i3M2MSMSM3MMSM3Mi5iclfSM3MSjK
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac
tory Rebuilt Ma
chines.
American Writing Machine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch'Visible, 3 mo, $5.
There is no finer expression 
of friendship than the sending 
of a Box of R. V. B. Chocolates.
"Ask the girl who knows.
SELLING AT ALL 
STORES
ATHLETIC EDITORS STORY OF 
CORNELLS ATTACK ON TECH
(Continued l<Tom Fage One.) 
quent dissension among themselves as 
to the interpretation of certain rules.
The day was cold and Cloudy. The 
sun broke through theLheavy clouds 
at intervals. The Cornell team came 
on with three complete elevens in uni
form at two-thirty, followed by the 
Plaid five minutes later. McFeaters 
won the toss and elected to receive 
the kick-off with the wind behind Tech.
First Quarter.
Colvin kicked off to Lynn on the 
S-3rard line who ran out of bounds on 
the 10-yard line. He immediately punt
ed to the 35-yard line and a Tech man 
fell on the ball.
 Hoffman was held at left tackle, but 
Van Horn went through the same place 
for eight. Hoffman ran off right tackle 
for ten and Netliercott repeated for 
two. Van Horn made eight at left 
end and Netliercott carried tile ball 
two yards through right tackle, mak
ing it first down on the Tech 5-yard 
line.
Hoffman was thrown twice for two 
1 yard losses by Ihe Tech lintf, which 
was fighting desperately. His. drop 
kick from the 14-yard line failed and 
Tech put the ball into play on the 20- 
yard line.
j Bloom skirted the left end for four. 
Lynn and Ginn each made two through 
center. Lynn punted to Nethercott, 
i who was thrown on the Cornell 40- 
! yard line.
DESIGN REMINISCENCES
 Member * Mike ?   
v Mike Who!.?
Mike, the Parrot, and twenty-one bones??
Oh. veh; and the way Critch pulled off his funeral oration,
and------V
Where is he buried, anyway?
Foot of the flagstaff on the. hill. Dont you remember that 
stunt? Gee, some affair.
Spiel it.
Something* like this. Old days of Applied Design in the Indus
try Building, and there was a REAL gang in the draughting rooms 
in those old days. Thursday of our eharette some guy blew in and 
yelled, Ive got the real dope, now, and the gang got up on its little 
hind legs and chirped Huh'/ at the guy with the big idea. This one 
came across with the dope about a parrot, a green one, a brass cage, 
and the rest of the necessary entourage. Resultwild enthusiasm 
and a passing of the Plebe cap. Twenty-one bucks was the tax and 
it took just four minutes and thirty-one seconds to raise it. The gang 
was broke for a week. 
Whats this stuff about the funeral?
You poor, deluded wophe croaked------
Oh!
Yell, and there was some funeral. Critch got religion and 
sprung one peach of a funeral oration. Lord! Id never heard one 
like that since they buried Aunt Maggie. Well, they laid Mike out 
in state on the lockers, burned candles and shed real weeps. After 
Critch had wrung our hearts, and the band was play
Thats right: why dont Al Smith get new music for this band? 
A funeral or sumpun would be a relief. This stuff lies pullin now
musta been the grand march to the Ark------
Aw, shut up; whos tellin this, anyhow?
Well, they buried Mike on Flagstaff Hill, and about seven hun
dred voices chanted:
 Mikeisdead
 Twenty-onebones
 Shottoh-------------.n
Twenty-one bonesgee! Kelly musta beat that much outa 
those Wylie avenue niggers at that Junior Smoker two years ago. 
Lordy! Some Smoker!
 Member the guy who was unconscious till fifteen cents rolled 
out of his .jeans?
Speakin of penalties, member the way the Sophs had to dig 
up their thirty-five when they drowned the Draughting Room band 
with the fire-hose?
Or the way Waggles used to dose out penalties for Van Sickle
from Sweets Catalog------
Yes, and Waggles got his long with Ruben, Southwell, Simp
son and Wiedman, when the'Sophs stuck em in the sink for the fake 
judgment.  
And Bis King went to New York to judgment a la faculty and
forgot to send back the results------
Gee! he missed the tank by fools luck.
Say, was that the gang that niggcred for Bill Nuzum on cliarettes ?  
Naw; that gang was the push that put cliarette in Design 
Why! they hired a band for le grand rendu, burned art-gum
in the trash-can till it smelled like a gas bomb attack------
Gosh, now Watterson reads Evening Prayer and knits to keep
up tradition an.if Sharove, an Red, an Care----------
Aw, les go hometimesa changed, Ignatz, timesa changed. 
Van Horn made three at right end 
and Hoffman two at righ guard. The 
latter made a wild forward pass and 
was forced to kick his punt going out 
of bounds at mid-field.
Bloom failed to gain at right end. 
Early slid off tackle for three. Lynn 
was held at the line. Time was called 
out for Carey. Nethercott allowed 
Lynn's punt to roll to the 15-yard line 
and wqs permitted to put the ball in 
play on the 20-yard line.
Pendleton made three at left tackle 
and Hoffman one at right guard. Neth
ercott slid off left end for two. Hoff
man punted thirty-five yards to Bloom 
who ran back fifteen. Lynn's pass 
failed, Wagner being injured on the 
play. Another attempted pass on the 
next play was intercepted by Hoffman 
who1 ran to the Tech 45-yard line. Van 
Horn made two at! the left line and 
Pendleton one at left guard. Hoff
man passed twenty yards to Colvin, 
who was thrown on the 18-yard line. 
Pendleton was held at right tackle. 
Nethercott ran around right end for 
nine. Pendleton dashed through cen
ter making it first down on the Tech 
7-yard line. On the next play, he re
covered Nethercotts fumble for a four 
yard loss. A double lateral pass to 
Pendleton netted four and he then 
''Tried the ball through center to the 
one yard line. Hoffman could not 
make the remaining distance and the 
quarter closed with the ball on the 
one-foot line.
, Score: Cornell 0, Tech 0.
Second Quarter.
Hoffman failed to gain and Tech 
took the ball on dowfcs. Lynn punted 
thirty yards from behind the goal line 
to Nethercott who was downed on the 
Tech 20-yard line. Cross went in for 
Van Horn, who was injured running 
interference.
Hoffman tried right guard for a 
yard. Cross broke away around left 
end for six, but was thrown by Gretzler. Pendleton made three through 
center. A cross buck by Hoffman, 
netted six. Nethercott failed to gain 
at right tackle. Hoffman and Cross 
made two apiece through left guard. 
Hoffman then drop kicked a goal from 
the 17-yard line.
Colvin kicked off over,the line, but 
a spectator interfered and McFeaters 
received the second attempt on the 
33-yard line. Early made five at the 
line. Lynn gained eight, but Tech was 
penalized five for having an end In 
motion, a questionable ruling. 131oom 
skirted right end for twenty-five yards. 
Early made two at light guard. Bloom 
lost two at left end. Lynn's lateral 
pass to Early gained three. Nethercott 
grounded Blooms pass. It was Cor
nells ball on her own 40-yard line.
Nethercott went around left end for 
eight, Ginn bringing him down. Cor
nell was penalized ten yards for hold
ing on the next play. Nethercott 
rounded left end for nine. Fox was 
offside and Tech was penalized five 
on the next. Hoffman lost two at the 
left line. Ginn intercepted Nether
cotts pass, but was tackled so hard 
that he fumbled. A pass, Nethercott 
to Pendleton,  netted nine. Hoffman 
made first down through the right side.
Nethercott made throe *n.t let* end 
and Cross followed suit for fourteen. 
Pendleton lost a yard. Hoffman added 
oneat center. Nethercott passed to 
Colvin, bringing the hall to the Tech 
8-yard line. Pendleton fallocl to gain 
at the left lino. Tech took the ball 
on downs.i
Lynn's punt rolled to mid-field. Cor
nell was offside, but Tech preferred 
taking the kick. McFeaters ground
ed Nethoreotts pass. He was Injured 
on the play. Lynn threw Nethercott 
for a yard loss at left end. Hoff
mans pass failed and ho then punted, 
but Tech was penalized five for run
ning into the kicker. Ginn and Lynn 
grounded three consecutive passes by 
Nethercott. Hoffman punted over the 
line.
Bloom put the ball in play on the 
20-yard line and made six yards around 
each end in rapid succession. The half
I
018.42
The Personal Writing Machine 
So simple In construction 
and operation that any
one can use it without 
previous experience. : 
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
P-icc $50
Call 343 Court or Write
SJandara Typewriter Cor
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENINGS
KMEM   '.mi".-II1 nmi  ......  ll
ended.
Score: Cornell 3, Tech 0.
Third Quarter.
Alexander started instead of Early. 
Lynn kicked oft! to Cross on the 15- 
yard line, he was downed on his own 
33-yard line. Nethercott careened 
around right end, eluded the secon
dary defense and raced sixty-five yards 
for a touchdown. Hoffman kicked 
goal.
Score: Cornell 10, Tech 0.
Colvin kicked off to Lynn who re
turned to the 20-yard line. Bloom and 
Lynn failed to gain. Bloom made three 
at right end. Lynn punted to Hoff
man who was thrown on the Tech 35- 
yard line. Nethercott carried the ball 
to the 23-yard line. Pendleton made 
it first down on the, Tech 11-yard line. 
Nethercott made one at left, end and 
Hoffman the same at left tackle. Jones 
and Williams dumped Nethercott for 
a three-yard loss. Hoffman dropkicked goal from the 20-yard line.
Score: Cornell 13, Tech 0.
Colvin kicked off over the goal line. 
Tech put the ball in play on the 20- 
yard line. Ginn lost, one at center. 
Bloom rounded right end for four and 
was then held at the line. Lynn's 
punt rolled and Cornell fell on it on 
the Tech 38-yard line.
Jones threw Nethercott for a twoyard loss. Nethercott went around 
right end and was thrown by Bloom 
on the Tech 10-yard line.' Hoffman 
failed to gain at left tackle. Nether
cott lost a yard. Huntington went in 
for Strauss. Cornell was penalized 
15 yards for failing to notify the ref
eree of the substitution. Jones threw 
Pendleton for a two-yard. loss. Hoff
mans drop kick from the 35-yard line 
failed. It was Techs ball on the 20- 
yard line.
Lynn was held at right; end. Ginn 
crashed through center for five yards. 
Lynn made two at loft tackle. He 
then punted to Cross who was downed 
on the Tech 40-yard line.
Jones broke through and spilled 
Hoffman for a loss. Pendleton gain
ed one, but was penalyzed five for 
crawling. Nethercott lost one at right, 
end. Hoffman punted to Bloom on the 
10-yard line, who was thrown by Ackerknecht on the 20-yard line. Ginn 
made two at center. Lynn was stop
ped at. tackle.
Score: Cornell 13, Tech 0.
Fourth Quarter.
Strauss went In for 1-Iuntlngton. 
Koefed and Nemser were in the Tech 
lineup.
Bloom ran left end for four, but 
Tech was penalized 15 for holding 
Lynn punted 40 yards to Netliercott, 
who returned to the Tech 40-yard line. 
Wlpperman went in at; guard for Cor
nell. Fox broke through and spilled 
Hoffman lor ai live yard loss. Cross 
made three at. right guard and then 
went around right.ond for 20 yards 
on an elusive double pass formation. 
Nethercott was thrown for a loss on 
an attempted pass. He (hen skinned 
off right tackle for four. Hoffman 
went through the line to the Tech 8- 
yard line. ) Nethercott netted two at 
right end and Cross four at light, 
tackle. Hoffman wont through lighl 
tackle to the one yard line, hut lost 
three on the next attempt. Tech took 
Ihe ball on downs.
Lynn punted to Cross on the 32-yard 
lino, Nethercott made oleven around 
left ond, Bloom tackling lilm.
Hoffman made one at light guard. 
Trowbridge wont In for Wlrkoman. 
Cross slid off left taclclo for 11 yards 
and touchdown. Bloom lost Ills grip 
when Cross' clothing tore. I loffman 
kicked goal.
Colvin kicked off to McFeaters, who 
was (lopped so hard that he lost the 
ball, Cornell recovering It. Pendleton 
and Hoffman netted four at left tackle 
In two plays. Pendleton carried the 
ball to the thieefyard line, hut the ball 
was recalled, both teams being off
side. Jones' fell on the oval after 
Hoffmans poor drop kick.
Alexander made six at right end on 
a double pass. Bloom ran off left 
tackle for ten yards. Lynn fumbled 
and Cornell was given the ball after 
extricating It from an entanglement, of 
gray and white limbs.
Nethercott failed to gain at left 
end. Fox threw Hoffman for a yard 
loss. Hoffman attempted a pass, but 
Cornell was offside. Nethercott tried 
right guard for two. His pass was in
complete and Hoffman punted over 
the goal line.
It was Tech's ball on the 20-yard 
line. Bloom made five around right 
end and Koefed four at left tackle. 
Lynn darted through center for nine 
yards and Bloom made one off left 
tackle. The game ended with Tech 
holding the ball at mid-field.
Tech. Cornell20.
Wagner ............L. E.................. Colvin
McFeaters ......L. T.... Ackerknecht
Carey ................L. G................ Strauss
Gretzler .............C................. Reuther
Jones ................R. G.................. Harris
Fox ...................R. T............... Schmidt
Williams ...........R. E.............Eisenbrant
Bloom ..............Q. B........... Nethercott
Lynn ................H. T........... Van Horn
Early ............R. II.............. Hoffman
Ginn ..................F. B............ Pendleton
Score by periods:
Tech .............................0. 0 0 00
Cornell .........................0 3 10 720
TouchdownsNethercott, Miner.
Goals from touchdownPendleton 2.
Field goalsHoffman 2.
SubstitutionsPetrie for Colvin. 
T-IunLlngt.on for Strauss, S. Thowbrhlgo 
for Reuther, Swanson for H-inis. W'pI perman for Schmidt, A. Trowbridge 
| for Wlpperman, Harris for Elson| brand!;, Spiegel,berger for Harris,
I Thomas for Nethercott, Cross for Van 
[ rfr,rn, Alexander lvr Early. Koefed ,,f|
| Ginn. Lusk for Williams, Nemser for 
I Carey, Poerstel for Alexander. ,,
I Time of quarters15 minutes.
[ RefereeSchwartz. Umpire  Okeson. Head linesmanRand.
INTER10 PENCIL
TH E perfec 
tion of pencil] 
quality  un
equalled for 
smoothness, uni
formity of grading 
and durability.
17 black degrees 
from (>B softest to 
to 9H hardest, and 
hard and medium 
(Indelible) copyInc.
LooTi for the distinc
tive VENUS finish!
/FREE!
* This trial box 
with five VENUS 
Dmwinii Pencils, 
Holder n lid 
VENUS Eriiscr 
sent free. Write 
ior it.
American Lead Pencil Co. 
217 Fifth Ave., N. Y. v 
Dept. W 27
Try the VENUS Erawr. too. Made ' 
in 12 3ZC3. $2.00 per box.
Bell Phone 3465 Grant.
J. G. Marshall 
Company
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
mulini
k Lslbsrty SSiow  
Print
PHIPPS POWER BUILDING L-iil 13
| Duquesne Way and Fifth Ave. J|
PITTSBURGH
L.XINX8CA fjD IfH IrH fnl CT fnT TO (^|(3 R W Irll fill (fil fnl pi I ni
ppjgMiiiiMI SCHENLEY EATS '
pi A good pince to get n good meal.
I
Moot your frlonds here on 
Sunday evening.
FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor.
CRAIG AND FORBES
fJJl fi> > rTfl fl f5Joi f1 cUc? 2fi2 il/ir1 fr^ fl iP i! ) 1 ^ n"vi o
i] J2i iMiMMMJ ilfirj liuiiiJiJQiJQiJ REGSTGRNTUXFVTTL2JI| THNnI OAKLAND I 
I HARDWARE CO. |
HARDWARE AND 
|j HOUSE-FURNISHING GOODS 
 3000 FORBES STREET
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Our convonlont location In Oakland 
enables us to glvo you oxcollont sorvIco. Cleaning and pressing dono on 
short notice. Spoelal sorvlco to fra/- 
tornltlos and rooming houses. Lot us 
havo a trial order. Call Schonloy 875.
J. E. T. SHUMAN 
391.1 Forbes Street
WEBER EXPRESS AND 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phone 239 Schcnlcy.
Moving, Packing and Storing | 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen
eral Hauling Baggage to and E 
from Depots.
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
LIBERTY CLEANING i
Student Prices y
XSuits Cleaned and Pressed..80c ?** 
Suits Sponged and Pressed. ,40c *\*
X
Student Agent rS*
J. G. JUERGENS
107 West D.
MR. EDITOR
We arc ao busy filling students' 
Orders at epccial ratec that we really 
haven't time to write and ad thia 
week.
If they don't buy us out well have 
something to say next issue.
Wm. G. Johnston Company
429 WOOD ST., AT DIAMOND

---------------------------------------------------

Page FourTHE TARTANWednesday, November 7, 1917
McDOUGALLS DANCING CLASSES jj
jfj SHADY AND PENNDANCES MONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY | 
1 4616 FORBES STREETFRIDAY EVENINGS E
a Private Lessons and Beginners' Classes every day and evening. [| 
j|j Jazz Fox Trot Ramble Waltz Mirlmba Orchestra E
iSM3M3M3M3M3M3M3/3MSM3M3MSM3M3M3M2MM3M2MSMSMSi3MSM3Mcii3M3i
BELLEFIELD GARDENS
(near Schenley Farms)
Bell field Gardens are located within ten minutes walk from the 
Tech Schools. We have to offer six eight room brick dwellings with 
all modern improvements, two bath rooms, large closets, hot water heat, 
hardwood floors and finish. Each house is provided with automobile
garage.
Price we ask for these houses is 40% less than they can be built for 
10-day. We will offer very reasonable terms. For information, see
Nicola Land Company,
1414 Farmers BankBuilding
PittsburghPhone, Grant No. 3
LUNCHESGROCERIES TOBACCO
Patronize Home Industry
CANDY
You cant m6s us.Woodlawn Avenue.
OCHS
FORBES AND ATWOOD
NEW NECKWEAR
50c, 65c, $1.00
THE SEASONS NEWEST AND CHOICEST 
 New Shirts, cither soft or 
stiff cuffs ...................................................................................$1.25
Warm Underwear, union or 2-piccc suits, $1.50, $2.00 and $2.50 a
suit.
GREY SUEDE GLOVES, Special, $2.00 a pair.
mmmmmmmwummmmmmmmmmmmmmmmujmmmmmttttmm:*
MEN ENJOY RESDVHILE DORM IS QUARANTINED
Although notice has not been offi
cially given to that effect, the name 
of the WeHt Dormitory, Woodlawn ave
nue, was changed last week to "Bac
teria Hall, a cognomen which will
of Type
and Many
Language*
A Typewriter Exceptional
For Collegians 
Change your type in an instant from one 
style to anotheror any language.
THEMULTIPLEX 
HAMMOND
Two sets of type in each machine.
Jmt Turn tlin Knol>" Presto one or the other 
SimploCompnctPortable 
Beautiful workbeyond compare.
If not inclined to a new machine, 
inquire for our Factory Rebuilt.
We Rent Machines of high quality. 
Putron&: President Woodrow Wilson Cardinal Merry del Val I)r. Alexander Graham Bell Chancellor Rev. B. G. Trant Bishop John C. Murray William Dean Howells also all Colletfes and Universities 
Our special terms to collegians will 
interest you. Catalog for the asking.
Hammond Typewriter Co.
545 East (19th Slroot
1 ' Now York Ciiy.N. Y. '
BESSEMER BLDG., PITTSBURGH
doubtless cling to It for some time to 
come. The forty-four hour quarantine 
which was enforced last Thursday and 
Friday is the cause of the re-christen
ing.
Inmates of the Dorm, upon return
ing home in the "wee small hours 
when the milkman has already made 
his rounds, after celebrating a night 
of Halloween festivities, were greet
ed by a notice intruding them to re
main indoors until given permission 
to leave. Had this been anticipated, 
ail West Dormites would have remain
ed out until morning, as there were to 
be no beloved eight-thirtys Thurs
day morning. Many, however, did 
celebrate, as a number of rooms were 
illuminated, and song, stories, etc., 
indulged in until break of day. As a 
result, nobody was awake when break
fast was served at 8:30. West Dorm
ites were treated like princes. A 
miniature "Beanery was established 
in the club room. A line was formed 
as usual, except that we had music 
with our meals. Everything was there 
that first morning, except the trays. 
But somehow or other, everybody man
aged to feel satisfied and was ready 
to start something. During the day 
those who passed down Woodlawn 
avenue by the dorms probably had 
many wierd and fanciful ideas as to 
the sanity of the inhabitants. But 
everything was1 well meant, and every 
passerby was loudly greeted. The 
yelling eventually became organized 
and the greetings left the windows in 
chorus. As* classes were dismissing, 
a largo audience gathered near the 
windows to hoar of the beauties of 
confinement as compared with the lot 
of poor folks who had such things 
as lessons, classes and instructors. 
Finally some one saw the beanery 
truck approaching the door again, and 
a loud yell and the disappearance of 
facos from the windows announced 
the arrival of the lunch hour.
The line was formed long before | 
the eats were inside, and, when the I 
door opened and trays loaded with 
dishes and feeds appeared, the long 
"yea was let loose, never to be for
gotten. Of course It took many min
utes to dish .out the rations, so in 
the meantime the following new accenter was devised and used with 
great success:
(1st half) (2nd half)
Diphtheria Bacteria
Diphtheria Bacteria
Diphtheria Bacteria
(Ah) Ray, Ray, Ray; Ray, Ray, Ray;
Ray, Ray, Ray.
(1st) Diphtheria. (2nd) Bacteria. 
But when the line, began to, move 
no time remained to yell, as the poor 
sick children were too hungry to re
main unfed one minute more. The 
doctor in taking the cultures of the 
fellows throats had tickled them so, 
that they couldnt wait for the oppor
tunity to soothe themselves. This last
ed but a short time and the whole 
place was alive again with voices.
The poor girls when they passed! 
No doubt many of them wished they 
could entertain us, but they were 
Plebes, maybe, and they couldnt take 
the risk of speaking to a man. Every
thing helped to while the time awa.y 
though, and soon dinner was announc
ed. There was the usual rush and yell
ing, and, say! who said theres no 
fun living in the dorms? Meals serv
ed, nothing to do, just eat, sing and 
sleep.
Nobody knows at what hour the 
dorm went to sleep Friday morning. 
The night passed and morning found 
everyone ready for another meal, 
which came in due time. Everybody 
made what is> called a beeline, for the 
beanery. While waiting for service, 
it was decided in united council of 
all those present that West Dorm be 
officially and fittingly named Bacteria 
Hall. The motion was carried.
The morning was made away with 
by singing, yelling, playing games, and 
in general, doing that for which no 
time remained on school days. At 
noon-time, most of the fellows were 
all in and the meal was greeted 
more heartily than ever before. About 
this time tlie doctor appeared and 
brought the sad news of the release 
of the Bacteria Hall inmates. After 
dinner a visit by Dr. Esquerre formal
ly saw the confinees dismissed. What 
happened after that cannot be imagin
ed except that, the high school foot
ball game on Techs field received an 
extra quota. And last but not least, 
out of the eighty-eight released, fortyfour were Science Plebes, and were 
thus enabled to attend the Science 
Plebe smoker in Carnegie Union Fri
day night.
MUSICAL CLUBS SHOW INCREASED ENTHUSIASM
Where Truth deigns to come, her 
sister Liberty will not be far.Akenside.
The Musical Clubs last Sunday held 
their most successful practice of this 
season. About fifty-five men were out 
for the Glee Club, and thirty musicians 
tried to show Signor Scalzo how well 
they could play. Work under Mr. La 
Marca is going along splendidly in the 
Clee Club. The men say that they 
are going to have the best season yet, 
and since Mr. La Marca has called 
two extra practice periods this week, 
it looks like they are working with 
that end in view.
In the Mandolin Club Signor Scalzo 
has chci6en some excellent numbers, 
among them being O Sole Mio and 
"Allah's Holliday. It has been de
cided to memorize all numbers this 
year, in order to eliminate all confu
sion in going on and off the stage 
caused by someone faling over a mu
sic stand. Also, it looks much better 
In the eyes of the public when the 
players do not depend upon the music.
Saturday evening, November 24, 
will be the annual smoker for mem
bers of the two clubs. It will be a 
chance for everyone to get acquainted 
as well as enjoy the eats. The pro
gram will be taken care of by the men 
who are trying out for reader or for 
the specialty "stunts. Each one who 
wants to try out for reader, or who 
has a good specialty will have an op
portunity to produce that night. 
Keep this date open, for it will be 
well worth while.
The first concert will be on Friday 
night, December 7.
MR. BAIRD TO SPEAK TO MENORAH SOCIETY
A meeting of the Menorah Society 
will be held on Friday, November 9, 
at 8:15 p. m. in the Temple Rodef 
Shalom. Mr. G. Baird of the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh, will be the speaker. 
All interested are invited to attend.
The Inter-Collegiate Menorah So
ciety was organized for*--the purpose 
of stimulating in everything pertain
ing to Jewish life history, ideals and 
customs. Students of all the univer
sities and colleges of the United States 
are eligible to membership.
The Pittsburgh branch of the Men
orah Society is composed chiefly of 
students of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology and University of Pitts
burgh. At its meetings, the above 
mentioned topics, and others also, are 
discussed. Noted speakers are always 
at hand to lead discussion.
Regular meetings are held every 
other Friday. Visitors are always wel
come.
P.LUDEBUEHL& SON
SHOES AND HOSIER) PENN AND FRANKS
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as ofte-j 
as not told by his footwearif he iw
/J-----------rj careless of that, hes apt to be neall\\ gent of more important things. If
| you will buy your shoes here, you mayJ 7 *4, be certain of looking all right, feeling
all right and impressing others with 
I that you are "all right. Our
-v. Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
1.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Mens Dept.
mnniiiniiiiiniiiininiiiininiiinnmnninniniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiniiiiuiiiiiiiiiiniinniiMiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiniiiininiiiiiiuiiuiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiituiiiniMiiinniiiuiiiniiiinmiiiiiuiiniiiniiiiiniiniiiiiiiniii
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND BANK"
CAPITAL, .................................................   $200,000.00
SURPLUS, $200,000.00
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
iiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiffl 
1 A National Institution
| Browning, King & Company
| CLOTHING, FUKNISHINGS AND HATS FOR 
| MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN
439-441 WOOD STREET
llllll!llll!lllnUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIII!l!lllll!IIIIIIIIl!IIIIH!!I!!iIl!inniin!linilll!l!lll!l!lllllllll!llllllllll!lllll!lllll!lllllllll>lll!lllll!l!ll!lll!!IIIIIIIIIIllllllI[[IIIIIQini|]III|[!IIIIUllUIIIIIIil|Ullllllllllll!l[llll!ll[[IIlll
EMaaaaia
A. ASLISTailor
Maker of fine clothes. Cleaning and pressing.
MODERATE PRICES 
120 MEYRAN AVENUE 4692-R Schenley
O A K L A ND
)*""! "!"!!!!!!"!""!! """   "! U" !!!" !" " !!  "! ! "!!" U"!!"!!!!"   ! ! "" " " "!!! !    !""! "! !  "
