^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 53  NUMBER 9 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1960
GROUND
FLOOR
LOBBY
SALI. ROOM,
n! /______I
V OOL U ME53U NBR9 WLOL NV  ES II. MM L1V.I
ALL
DSADYE,
ROOM
<rxMT7~
OF|FfC|ES
FIRST
FLOOR
KITCH. ' RECEIVIHfi 
STOR. J 1__
1 STAFF SIR.WASH.I / sfRv utit-r_J -
SERV. ARSA AB
EUCC 
* CAFETERIA
ST U 0 e NT
CAFETERIA
EUS7,1U
CAFETERIA
E9N6Y
CAMPUS ACTIVITIES CENTER.
Skibo Opens January 4, 1961 
All Facilities Will Be Complete 
To Answer Long Felt Need
The new Skibo will answer a need long felt on the Carnegie Tech Campus; one 
building in which all student activities can be conducted. It will serve more than 3400 full 
time and almost 2000 part time students, in addition to the faculty and staff.
One of the highlights of the new * - ' ~
building is the beautiful new ball 
room on the first floor. Large pil
lars, in two rows, decorate the 
center of the room. At one end of 
the ball room is a stage that can 
be made larger or smaller for a 
bandstand. The room can accom
modate approximately 400 couples. 
The ball room can be used for 
banquets, parties, dances and din
ners. There is a projector in the 
ball room, so that it can be used 
f show movies.
When the ball room is not in use 
for a special affair it is a lounge 
area. Next to the ball room is the 
lobby which can be used as an 
addition to the ball room or as a 
separate room. Between the lob
by and the ball room is a service 
pantry to be used when there are 
dinners and refreshments in the 
ball room. In good weather the 
ball room will open onto a ter' ice.
Also on the first floor is an allpurpose room. This room, 
equipped with a projector, will ac
commodate 150-200 people. There 
is a stage at one end of the room. 
The all-purpose room may be used 
for dinner, dances, or other social 
activities.
Eating Facilities
Many different eating facilities 
are located in the new Skibo. On 
" ; first floor is a snack bar. The 
snack bar is for use between 
meals while the staff is cleaning 
the cafeteria. Next to the snack 
bar is located a faculty lounge, a 
faculty dining room, and a Presi
dents dining room. There are 
three private dining rooms for the 
use of any private student or fac
ulty groups.
Beside the snack bar is a game room. On the second floor there is
room with tables for cards and 
other games. Ping pong also may 
occupy the leisure hours of the 
students.
Club Rooms and Offices 
One-half of the ground floor 
contains club rooms and offices. 
The Tartan, the Scot, the Tech
nical, and the Thistle have pri
vate offices. WRCT, the campus 
radio station, will have a new 
waiting room, studio and control 
room. There are dark rooms for 
the use of photography staffs. The 
seven club and committee rooms 
may be used by any of the campus 
organizations. Each sorority will 
have a closet outside the club 
rooms. The Poster room will pro
vide a place for organizations to 
work on their advertisements. The 
Student Congress has a meeting 
room, and they will decide the fu
ture of the Student Activity 
Room. The commutors will find 
the dressing rooms convenient. 
They have showers, dressing fac
ilities, and cots to provide for the 
comfort of' the commutors. The 
Placement Bureau has a suite of 
offices in the new Skibo. The co
ordinators of affairs have four of
fices to conduct their activities. A 
person speaking in the ball room 
or the all-purpose room can be 
heard throughout the building by 
a P. A. system.
Use of the Rooms 
The use of the rooms in Skibo 
will be handled by Dean Strick. 
Anyone desiring the use of these 
rooms should contact Dean Strick 
in AH or in Skibo when it opens.
The completion on the new Ski
bo will mark another step forward 
in Carnegies ten-year $29,000,000 
development program.
Note to CIT Students
Skibothe all new Skibowas 
dedicated at 11:30 a.m. on Tues
day, November 20.
And less than 100 of Techs 3500 
students were present!
This is the buildingdesigned 
with youthe students in mind. 
It provides a ball-room for your 
dances, teas and other affairs. It 
provides offices for the Tartan, 
Thistl Scot and studio space for 
your radio station. Your religious 
affairs meeting rooms are here as 
are meeting rooms for other cam
pus organizations. Your cafete
rias, snack bars, individual kitch
ens, an all-purpose meeting room 
all these were designed for you.
Many, many volunteers worked 
long hours to raise $2.9 million 
dollars to build Skibo for you. 
Some of them took time away 
from their basic responsibilities to 
attend this dedication.
And they saw less than 100 Tech 
students in attendance!
But they did see students 
streaming by Skibo on their way 
to the dorms and fraternities. 
They did see young nen tossing 
a football back and forth right 
outside Skibo. So unavailability 
or lack of time cannot account for 
this breach of good manners; this 
failure to say thanks by your 
presence there.
Im puzzled and ashamed. Can 
any of yor explain to me why less 
than 100 of you would appear for 
the dedication of a campus activi
ties center that basically is yours 
that is one of the finest youll 
find on any campus of a size com
parable to Techs?
Will the same disinterestthe 
same poor showingoccur when
E9N6Y
CAMPUS ACTIVITIES CENTER.
Skibo Dedication Ceremonies 
Took Place In the Ball room
By Sue Rose
Skibo, Carnegie Tech's new' campus activities center, 
was formally dedicated at ceremonies on Tuesday, Novem
ber 22, at 11:30 a.m.
Since classes began on the Carnegie campus in the early 
1900s, the student gathering place#-----------------------
has been traditionally named Ski
bo in honor of Andrew Carnegies 
great castle on Dornoch Firth, 
Scotland. This new building will 
continue the tradition and affec
tion which students and faculty 
have always had for their campus 
social center.
The dedication ceremonies, 
which took place in the Ballroom 
of the new Skibo, were opened 
with several selections by the 
Kiltie Band. Mr. Batchelder, Co
ordinator of Religious Affairs, 
gave the prayer; followed by 
James Bovard, Chairman of the
Photo t>y Phil
Key to the Union given to Dr. 
Brown by Dr. Warner
we dedicate the $3.5 million dol
lar Hunt Library next year I 
hope not.
Sincerely yours,
H. Russell Bintzer 
Vice-President 
Carnegie Tech
Board of Trustees at Tech, who 
commented that Skibo was vex1/^* 
necessary as a cafeteria and as a 
meeting place for the various 
campus organizations. He also felt 
it served as a building place for 
new friendships.
Mr. Gwiiyn Price, Chairman of 
the Board, Westinghouse Electric 
Corporation, said the fund-raising 
campaign for Skibo had begun in 
1957, when Ben Fairless, Chair
man of the U.S. Steel Company, 
Mr. Price, and President Warner 
traveled throughout the country 
campaigning.
Dr. Arthur Van Bushirk, Presi
dent of the Allegheny Confer
ence to Rebuild Pittsburgh and 
Governor of T. Mellon & Sons, 
addressed the group on the build
ing of a sound community.
President J. C. Warner present
ed the key to Skibo to Dean 
George K. Brown, and thanked all 
those who had taken part in the 
planning or construction of Skibo, 
Following this, President of Stu
dent Congress, Martin T. Cannon, 
accepted Skibo on behalf of the 
student body saying that it was 
much more than a cafeteria; it 
was a place for the students ta 
work, relax, and enjoy them
selves. At the conclusion of the 
program, guides were provided 
by Cwens and ROTC for all those 
wishing to tour the building.
PARKING 
With adeqnste parking 
space behind Morewood Gar
dens, near Skibo, and along 
Forbes Ave. for the cars of 
all commuters, there is no 
longer any excuse for illegal 
parking along Margaret Mor
rison or Frew Streets. Within 
the week, therefore, the police 
will take action against the 
cars illegally parked on the 
sereets in and around the
C.I.T. campus,

---------------------------------------------------

**MTe 2  CARNEGIE TAtAN  Wednesday, Dt(erafb>r 7, 19(0V. \
OLU BULLETIN 
BOARD
Patterns Articles
Student writings are needed for 
the second issue of Patterns, 
Carnegie Techs literary maga
zine.
The staff will accept for con
sideration all original composi
tions in the categories of short 
story, short, short story, dialogue, 
essays, article, or poetry. None of 
the compositions should exceed 
twelve typewritten pages.
All kinds of writings of interest 
to college students are acceptable 
fci* consideration.
Entries should be submitted to 
Patterns, Box 2D7, Morewood 
Gardens, as soon as possible. They 
cannot be returned, so it is ad
visable to make carbon copies.
The magazine will be published 
next semester.
Back Issues Needed
Back copies of this years TAR
TAN, dated from September 29, 
thru the October issues, to Novem
ber 2, are badly needed by the 
Circulation Department. Would 
anyone who has any of the above 
issues, please give them to Pete 
Kost, 1085 Morewood Avenue, or 
tel^nhone MU 2-9211.
Hillel Party
Carnegie Tech Hillel in con
junction with Duquesne, Chat
ham, University of Pittsburgh, 
Washington and Jefferson, will 
hold a Chanukah Dinner-Party to 
end all parties. It will be held 
Sunday, December 11. at 6:30 p.m. 
at the YM & WHA, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., in the Hillel Lounge. 
The cost of the dinner for mem
bers is a qaurter and 75 cents for 
non-members. Also bring an in
expensive gift for the grab bag.
EUS7,1U C0SIU. 
0YCC,, nYSAE 
U!/ _!MF | the f/M/f 3* 
E_TF/|_OCh5Te_w 03**// n3TMf 
kee i/ !/eF _3b3MM3k | 
Eoi3 i/l|||l h_ asaBW U!/f/ 
53**// !3TMf hM/ fr3|f3M/F iw 
Yb5M3| 7/e_h 9hrrh | 53d
3r/Mh_3| k_! f/g/Mhe 3_!/M 
lM3TrfW 03**// h|F F3|T_f hM/ 
hghehie/W
Music Lecture
Professor Domingo Santa Cruz, 
visiting Mellon Professor of 
Music, will speak at the Carnegie 
assembly on Tuesday, December 
13, at 11:30 a.m. in Fine Arts. His 
lecture is entitled, The PresentM O
State of Music in Latin America.
Born in La Cruz, Province of 
Quillota, Chile, on June 5, 1899, 
Professor Santa Cruz studied law 
at the University of Chile, and 
music with private teachers such 
as Eulogio Flores, violin, and En
rique Soro and Conrado del Campo, music composition. Founder 
of the Bach Society (1919), the 
Symphony Concert Association 
(1930), and the National Asso
ciation of Musical Education of 
Chile, Professor Santa Cruz was 
also a professor of Music History 
and Composition Analysis and 
Dean of the College of Musical 
Arts and Sciences of the Univer
sity.
He was president of the Nation
al Composers Association of 
Chile, member of the National 
Commission of UNESCO, delegate 
of the International Association 
of Contemporary Music, repre
sentative in Chile of the Interna
tional Center of Musical Docu
mentation, president of the Inter
national Music Council of Paris 
and president of the International 
Association of Music Education.
7,0,LtU6,A U,0n1N0I 
 fr/5he Dfw5!3e3lw _!/b/ 
ffT/ 3* _!/ 0A1,cN, 
U,0n1N0I kee i/ 3| fhe/ 
f33|W U!/ 7/5/bi/M ffT/ 
kee |5eTF/ hM_5e/f 3|s 
03brT_/Mf h|F Dfw5!3e3lwm 
iw 6hM_3| e/ph|F/Mu ;v/h|d
|l*Te|/ff hf h thMhie/ 3* 
I/hM||lm iw 4h| 13_3r3Te3fu 
;A/eh_3|f!r 3* D!wf2T/ h|F 
D/Mf3|he_wm iw 43!| cW DMd
5/Mu h|F ;Dfw5!3f3bh_5 Need
|/ffs 0TMM/|_ A/f/hM5!m iw 
73M3_!/h UfhlhMfW
PHI MU ALPHA HONORARY ..
Mr. Philip Catelinet was initi
ated as a Chapter Honorary of 
Alpha Omega Chapter of Phi Mu 
Alpha Sinfonia on November 13, 
1960. Mr. Catelinet, a graduate of 
Trinity College in England, has 
played tuba in the London Philhormonia Orchestra, The British 
Broadcasting Company Orchestra, 
and The British B.oadcasng 
Band. The noted composer Ralph 
Vaughn Williams dedicated his 
Concerto for Tuba to Mr. Catel
inet, who premiered the work in 
England. Mr. Catelinet is current
ly teaching Music Theory and 
Low Br: Instruments at Carne
gie Tech.
Aerospace Representatives...........
Representatives from the Aero
space Technical Intelligence Cen
ter will conduct placement inter
views at Carnegie Tech May 3, 
1961. Aerospace is associated with 
the U.S. Air Force at the WrightPatterson Air Force Base in Ohio.
Hebrew Classes
Carnegie Tech Hillel will spon
sor beginning Hebrew Classes for 
all interested. For information as 
to exact time and place, contact: 
Bob Preger, MU 3-5285, Wednes
day evening, December 7.
DON'T FORGET
Save Your Empty Marlboro, Philip Morris, Alpine, 
Parliament Pack For Your Fraternity or Dorm
Win: Console Stereo Hi-Fi
this year: THREE GROUPS WIN
Contest Starts: NOV. 3, 1960 
Ends: Dec. 16, 1960
For Information: Call Rudy Molck-udy HA 1-1189
oCet Get ^^ce^uainted!
Real Italian Spaghetti With 
Meat Sauce - Meat Balls 
and Romaine Cheese*1
.10
French Fried Shrimp $|
Potatoes and Vegetables
.60
TWO VPian st(t(a illoh 
PePtVPAVn DLE RitePSn RPiStnh
FRANKIE CUSTINE'S
titstun ran t
3911 FORBES ST., OAKLAND
Mens Dorm Parties 
To Be Held Dec. 10
Something new in the way of 
mens dorm parties is coming De
cember 10. Not just one, but 
twin, top notch quartets will be 
featured Saturday from R to 1 in 
Hammerschlag and Donner Halls.
Pick your mood, or party hop 
all night. Donner Hall will fea
ture soft dance music in the street 
level lounge with plenty of that 
conducive atmosphere, while in 
Hamm ;rschlag there will be jazz 
and rhythm for the cool ones.
In addition to appropriate dec
orations, plenty of refreshments
will be available. The twin quar
tets will be furnished by George 
Diehl and the dress is Sunday 
Best.
All this is part of MDCs effort 
to improve and increase social ac
tivities for dorm residents. The 
dorm vice-presidents were as
signed the planning of the events.
Because of the time element th;~ 
may be the only party this semes
ter, but any money not used will 
be carried over to next semester 
when it is hoped that three or four 
parties can be held. The mens 
stag party should come in early 
January or February.
On Campuswith 
IF Statai
OE53NBR BL 9W DSA S Y,,C7S1, 60SRLI. 9YN, nSC! /B_,A BL 6BF, |FffFAI. ,*.)
*TIS THE SEASON TO BE JOLLY
If you have been reading this columnand I hope you have; 
I mean I genuinely and sincerely hope so; I mean it does not 
profit me one farthing whether you read this column or not; 
I mean I am paid every week by the makers of Marlboro and 
my stipend is not altered in any particular by the number of 
people who read or fail to read this columnan act of generosity 
totally typical, you would say, if you knew the makers of 
Marlboro as I know the makers of Marlboro; I mean here are 
tobacconists gray at the temples and full of honors who approach 
their art as ingenuously, as eagerly, as trustingly as the youngest 
and most innocent of practitioners; I mean the purpose of the 
Marlboro makers is simply to put the best of all possible filters 
behind the best of all possible tobaccos and then go, head high, 
into the market place with their product, confident that the 
inborn sense of right and wrong, of good and bad, of shoddy and 
meritorious, which is the birthright of every American, will 
result in a modest return to themselves for their long hours and 
dedicated laborsnot, let me hasten to add, that money is of 
prime consideration to the makers of Marlboro; all these simple 
men require is plain, nourishing food, plenty of Marlboros, and 
the knowledge they have scattered a bit of sunshine into the 
lives of smokers everywhere; if, I say, you have been reading 
this column, you may remember that last week we started a 
discussion of what to give our friends for Christmas.
We agreed, of course, to give cartons of Marlboro to everyone 
we know or would like to know. Today let us look into some 
other welcome gifts.
Do you know someone who is interested in American history? 
If so, he will surely appreciate a statuette of Millard Fillmore 
with a clock in the stomach. (Mr. Fillmore, incidentally, waa 
the only American president with a clock in his stomach. James 
K. Polk had a stemwinder in his head and William Henry 
Harrison chimed the quarter-hour, but only Mr. Fillmore, of 
all our chief executives, had a clock in his stomach. Franklin 
Pierce had a sweep second hand and Zachary Taylor had seven
teen jewels and Martin Van Buren ticked, but, I repeat, Mr. 
Fillmore, and Mr. Fillmore alone, had a clock in his stomach. 
Some say that Mr. Fillmore was also N, LFRA TR,AFh,C 0FN 
TB0,R A,,RFC1. but most historians assign this distinction to 
Chester A. Arthur. However, it has been established beyond 
a doubt that Mr. Fillmore 0SA the first president with central 
heating. No wonder they called him Old Hickory!)
But I digress. To get back to welcome and unusual Christmas 
gifts, here's one thats sure to pleasea gift certificate from the 
American Chiropractic Society. Accompanying each certificate 
is this fetching little poem:
n,RR! eNRFAFCSA. wSTT! k,0 i,SR,
bB!B3A AS*RB7FfFS*o
nS! !B3R ATFC, LBR,_,R ANFC,.
Blessings BC !B3R S*NFC1 S*lE
nS! !B3R f3aSR C,s,R 1RB0 C3a,R,
nS! !B3R S*lBC, C,s,R hFAfBh1,.
nS! !B3R *S3hSf C,_,R dawdle,
bB!,3r kB,fo w,3R,3r aSAAS1,f I960 Mu Bh
An# greetings of the season from Marlboro*s newest partner 
in pleasure, the unfiltered, all-new, king-size Philip Morris 
Commander. At Yuletide, at any tide, welcome aboardt

---------------------------------------------------

y/F|/fFhw7/5/bi/M '- LR~B  0A1,cN, UAU1  Dhl/ a
Record Breaking Auditions 
Deliver Large SnS Cast
The executive board of Scotch N Soda has announced 
the results of the tryouts for positions in the cast of ANIMA
TION, the Clubs 1961 production. After auditioning nearly 
225 students  a record number  the four-man selection 
board has chosen the forty-two#----------------------
whom they feel best qualified to 
fill the available roles in ANI
MATION.
Rings Have A 
New Look
Last year, the company that has 
been supplying us with the Senior 
Class rings, made a great im
provement in their styling. The 
rings retained their identity but 
the letters were made larger and 
more readable.
The modern designed ring has 
rolled edges, and the blank spots 
are newly polished. The th^le is 
Intended to insure longer wear, 
and the band is flat; a truly beau
tiful job in workmanship. The 
new protecto-baeking of plastic 
keeps the dirt out of the crevices, 
and also prevents the stone from 
slipping out of the ring. There is 
more gold in the new r'ng making 
it more valuable.
Ring: Approved
This new ring was approved by 
.he Alumni Office, Mr. Johnson, 
the Executive Secretary, and his 
assistant, Mr." Samuelson. Mr. 
Floyd of the C.I.T. Bookstore also 
agrees with the common opinion 
that these new rings are a beau
tiful creation. As yet a sufficent 
stock of rings has not been built 
up. There is no year on the ring, 
however, which makes it possible 
for anyone to obtain the ring at 
any time.
The engraving takes about two 
weeks, costing ten cents per letter, 
and can be done through the book 
store, fraternity letters encrusted 
on the stone require a six-week 
wait, the end result being one of 
the most beautiful school rings in 
the country.
The 1961 cast will include: 
Wendy Bers, Richard Cary, Mar
tha Cohen, Gigi Franklin, Carol 
Haber, Bob Hitchcock, David 
Hyatt, Bill Law, Jane Lomason, 
Pat Moore, Joe Oldfield, Ara 
Scelsi, Judy Simboli, Edgar Ulm, 
Dan Burleigh, Dennis Clopper, 
Carole Dennison, Ned Garnhart, 
Steve Harr, Tom Hogshead, and 
Sheldon Kaplan.
Also Included in the cast are: 
Sam Leezer, Cathy Matter, Gale 
Morgan, Regina Ress, Vicki Schenman, Fred Skwirut, Adina Rosen
thal, William Carlson, James Code, 
Carter Franklin, Sue Godin, Jim 
Henderson, Harry Hovel, Ruth 
Kibler, John Lepperd, Pat Miller, 
Joan Ogrosky, Charlotte Rogers, 
Lorraine Shapiro, Janet Snider, 
and Karen Zolten.
The selection board was com
posed of the four most prominent 
figures in Scotch n Soda this 
year. Working together, Presi
dent Bill Pence, Musical Director 
George Diehl, Director Dana Hop 
kins, and Author-Lyricist Stu 
Warshawsky evaluated the merits 
of each person who tried out. 
Each cast member was chosen 
with a particular role in mind as 
based upon the particular talents 
shown. The competition among 
the girls was particularly keen 
this year.
The auditions were designed to 
produce the clearest all-around 
picture of the talent of each stu 
dent as it would look in ANI 
MATION. Therefore, every as 
pirant was required to go through 
a dance, song, and an oration to 
determine the ability of each in 
all three fields.
The first meeting of the cast was 
held last Saturday afternoon.
Tech Makes Bowl
Quick-witted, intellectual undergraduates from college 
campuses all over the country have a chance to match wits 
and knowledge every Sunday afternoon on the television 
show College Bowl. Carnegie Tech will send a team of
students to the show on Janu-#---------------- '
ary 16.
Sponsored by the Housewares 
and Commercial Equipment Divi
sion and Radio Receiver Depart
ment of the General Electric Com
pany, College Bowl is a program 
featuring competitive oral exam
ination between two teams (from 
two different schools) of four stu
dents each.
Objectives
The main objectives of the pro
gram are to develop a greater 
pride in our young college stu
dents and to encourage public 
support toward helping to find so
lutions to problems which face 
the nations educational systems.
Panel members are asked two 
types of questions. Toss-Ups, or 
qualifying questions, which are 
usually short, less difficult, and re
quire maximum speed in answer
ing. Theyre worth 10 points each 
and are answered by individual 
team members.
Each student has a combination 
buzzer-light. When a buzzer is 
pushed, the light comes on and 
all other positions are electron
ically blocked. This assures recog
nition of the first player with the 
answer.
Toss-Up questions may be in
terrupted before the question is 
completed if a student feels he 
knows the answer. However, if he 
gives the wrong answer, his team 
suffers a five point penalty loss.
A correct answer to a toss-up 
question earns the right to a bonus 
nuestion, .which rai>,v have several
parts and be worth as much as 
40 points. For these questions, 
team members may collaborate 
and pool their knowledge.
Subjects 
All questions cover a wide 
range of subjects, including art, 
current events, economics, folk
lore, geography, history, literature, 
mathematics, music (classical and 
popular), mythology, philosophy, 
public affairs, religion and the 
Bible, science and sports.
Prizes are awarded to both in
dividual participants and winning 
teams. $1500 goes to the scholar
ship fund of the winning school 
and $500 to the runner-up. A 
school achieving five consecutive 
wins receives an additional $1500 
and a permanent trophy symboliz
ing their achievement as a retired, 
undefeated champion. As of Octo
ber, Rutgers and Colgate were the 
only trophy winners in the shows 
three year television history.
No Team Loses 
No team loses on this intel
lectual battelfront, says Allen 
Ludden, moderator, host and um
pire. One merely outscores the 
other . .
Questions are written by a Con
necticut housewife, Nancy Forbes, 
a former Fulbright scholar, who 
has a diversified background in 
the writing and editing of educa
tional articles.
(Next week The Tartan will de
scribe the screening process for 
selection of panel members.)
Fraternities Get 
163 Freshman 
Pledges to Date
At 4:55 p.m. on Monday, No
vember 21, most of Techs five 
hundred fraternity men were asj 
sembled on the front steps of their 
respective houses, awaiting the re
sults of tw^ months of hard rush
ing. The results showed a definite 
drop in the number of men pledg
ing fraternities under the new de
ferred rushing system. On this 
first nigh' of pledging, 114 men 
pledged fraternities compared to 
well over 200 on the first night 
last year.
This lower number is attributed 
to two reasonsthe 1.75 factor re
quirement and the late pledging 
date. The 1.75 requirement was 
expected to reduce the number of 
eligible freshmen by about onethird. It was also expected that 
the late pledging date would in
duce more men to w'ait a little 
longer before making their choices. 
This number was also low be
cause a few men waited to dis
cuss fraternities with their par
ents over Thanksgiving. Quite a 
few men did pledge after vaca
tion. The number is now 163 
pledges and still growing.
Freshman pledges are:
ATO
Jack Steinfeld, Bob Roberts, 
Chuck Magistro, Bob Mercer, Joe 
Sheldrick, Dick Zug, Gale Mor
gan, Roger Copeland, Steve 
Schwab, Brookes Van Dyke, Doug 
Saunderson, Dave Olson.
BSR
Bob Balzer, Mel Barkin, Bill 
Becker, Phil Berg, Joel Camphausen, Steve Cohen, Marty Dines, 
Michael Flamer, Andy Freedman, 
Steve Freedman, Barry Friedfeld, 
Robert Jeronimo, Steve Catz, Don 
Liss, Bob Liss, Larry Littman, An
drew Prince, Marv Reich, Larry 
Scholder, Howie Sinder, Alex 
Speyer.
BTP
Bob Tobin, John Jackson, Bill 
Small, Ken Johnson, Bob Cort, 
Don Moore, Lee Collins, John 
Borofsky, John Heiermann, Bob 
Smock, Bob Cavanaugh, Joe 
Thomas, Dal Norris, Dave Peck, 
Jay Coates, Steve Hartman, Ryran 
Rice, Chip Lynch, Warren Olsen.
DTD
John Darringer, Frank Luisi, 
Len Marino, Dick Marshall, Dave 
Royer, Allen Westerberg.
DU
Kent Baldauff, Artie Fox, Paul 
Helgeson, Bob Liebl, Nagesh 
Chwola, Bill Crookston, George 
McGeary, Bob Tammas.
KS
Dick Recktinwald, Norman 
Steer, Albert Bretts, Pete Bice, 
Tom Huhn, Ray Baughman, Bill 
Lau, Bob Schmidt, Vince Senna, 
Fred Wilke, Gil Moore, Jack Shoal.
PKT
Tom Cort, Anthony De Mark, 
Ron Dolan, Mike Lilia, Henry Gal
liot, James Harvey, Ronald 
Kichko, Larry Lang, Roger Leon
ard, F-ancis Malone, Edmund 
Peay, Ronald Polosky, Wilfred 
Recker, Joel Thompspn, Steve 
Zabrenski.
PKA
Geage Perenis, Bill Elsey, Len 
Caramela, Bob Storch, Tom Pike, 
Don Schroeder Gerry Moore, 
Chuck Sponsler, Dave Williams, 
Jay Bishop, Joe Becek, Andy 
Langlois, Adrian Seguiti, Nick 
Amdur, Jim Graves, Bob Wolf, 
Doug Saunders, A1 Repko, Dale 
Uhler, Dave Hyatt, Bill Benzinger', 
Dave Morris.
SAE
A1 Pinkerton, Harley Wood, 
Chet Meyers, Glenn Mehltretter, 
Guy Turner, John Slavenski, 
Demitrios Lahanas, Ed Bauer, Bill 
Faircloth, Frank Moran, Rich 
Stamile, Larry Dorie, Mike In
gram, Tom Roberts, Bill Katzenmeyer, Harvey Gammon, Steve j 
Van Nordin.
SN
Chuck Anderson, John Camp
bell, Tom Douglass, Dave Easley, 
Mike Echols, Mike Greenawalt, | 
Jim Henderson, Pete Hotz, Harry 1 
Hovel, Andy Logan, Nick McNab, j 
Tom Miller, Glenn Moore, Fred;
New Grant Received 
From Carnegie Corp.
A grant of $400,000 has been received by Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology from the Carnegie Corporation to estab
lish five professorships in interdisciplinary fields. These pro
fessorships are the first in a new program of interdiscipli
nary teaching and research which#----------------------
calls for at least double this num
ber.
Institute Professors
The new chairs will relate work 
in the College of Engineering and 
Science, the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration, and 
the Division of Humanistic and Social Studies. Appointees to the | research. This new plan for Instinew chairs will be named Institute Professors teaching in two 
tute Professor and will teach or three areas of the school cargraduate students and do research ries forward the tradition of the 
on major problems which cut Carnegie Plan which this school 
across traditional fields of knowlhas followed for many yearsa
most effective research and prob
lem solving cannot be accom
plished within the rigid compart
ments and narrow limits that 
characterize the standard depart
mental approach to education and
edge.
Mauchly First Appointee
First appointment under the 
new program is Dr. John William 
Mauchly, a pioneer in electronic 
computers, who has been named 
Visiting Institute Professor 
Systems Engineering. He will 
teach and supervise graduate stu
dent research in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administra
tion and the College of Engineerplan which calls for a liberal pro
fessional education of the high
est quality. We are grateful to the 
Carnegie Corporation for their 
demonstrated belief in this new 
plan for professorships  one 
of | which adds a new dimension to 
the traditional concept of the dis
tinguished professorship.
New Appointments Coming 
President Warner said that Car
negie expects to mi ke appoint -
ing and Science emphasizing the ments soon of other Institute Pro
use of modern computers and sysfessors in such fields as solid state 
tems analysis in handling both science, nuclear science and enengineering and managerial probgineering, modern mathematics 
lems. His work is of primary inand management, applied matheterest to industrial administration, matics and engineering science, 
electrical engineering, and chemand the social and administrative 
ical engineering. ! sciences.
A New Dimension 1 Dr. B. R. Teare, dean of the
Discussing the now interdisciCollege of Engineering and Seiplinary professorships Dr. Warner enee, emphasized the importance 
said, It has become crystal clear of interdisciplinary work in many 
that in the modern world, the d*BCFC3,h BC TS1, 8]
Dr. Smith To Give 
Maurice Falk Lecture
The latest presentation of the Maurice Falk lecture ser
ies is A Tudor Tragedy: The Life of Catherine Howard. On 
Thursday, December 8, a lecture on Biography as a Histor
ical Discipline, will be given at 2:30 p.m. in Porter Hall 100, 
followed by a seminar in AH 246# A Not Officiallv
Off Calendar
Catherine Howard as a Mirror 
of Tudor Society will be pre
sented on Friday, December 9, at 
2:30 p.m. in Porter Hall 100 fol-: HoiUeCOIllinff Is 
lowed by a seminar at 3:30 in AH
246 A. These lectures and sem
inars are open to faculty, staff, 
students, and the general public.
Lacy Baldwin Smith, Associate 
Professor of History, Northwest
ern University, is conducting the 
series to illustrate the relation
ships of biography to history. As a 
specialist in British history, Dr. 
Smith has spent considerable time 
abroad as a Fulbright scholar and 
in post-doctorate residence study.
His research has been directed 
primarily toward the analysis of 
conflicts between king and subject 
on legal, political, and moral is
sues which characterized the 
Tudor Period and later influenced 
American colonial life. This is re
flected in his publications which 
include: Y3hBR gR,fS,A SCh gBft
FF*Ac eSN,RFC, wB0SRh. S Y3hBR 
YRS1,h!c English Treason Trials 
and Confessions in the Sixteenth 
Century; The Reformation and 
the Decay of Medieval Ideals.
Dr. Smith received his B.A. 
from Bowdoin College in 1946, his 
M.A. from Princeton University in 
1949, and his Ph.D. from PrinceMany students became aroused 
recently at what appeared to be 
an official notice that the two 
half-holidays for Homecoming. 
Friday afternoon and Saturday 
morning, were to become class 
time instead. However, Dean 
Brown, Chairman of the Calendar 
and Schedules Committee, said 
that the bulletins, which appeared 
on various campus bulletin boards 
and which also were sent to the 
fraternity houses, had been mim
eographed by an unauthorized in
dividual.
The copies made were of min
utes from the Calendar Commit
tees October 25 meeting. The 
meeting had in part concerned 
proposals for Homecoming chang
es that would not become effec
tive before the school year 1962- 
1963. The suggested changes w'ere 
based on the Alumni Federation's 
plans to have a Commencement 
Homecoming in June, instead of 
the Homecoming in the fall. Since 
the Homecoming activities requir
ing class time for student pre
paration were to entertain the 
alumni, Dean Brown said that
ton University in 1951. From 1951 the Calendar Committee could see 
to 1955 he was a professor at j no reason, for not restoring that 
M.I.T. In 1955 he began his prestime to classes once the alumni 
ent association with Northwestern no longer participated.
University.He added, though 
matter FA still in th
that this 
idea stage
Roffman, Dave Vandelinde, Chris and that it will be discussed by 
Zimmerman. Student Congress, the UndergradTDP uate Advisory Committee (cornMarty Skowren, Phil Cohen, posed entirely of students), and 
Steve Cutler, Ron Dorfman, Bob other interested campus segments 
Wachtel, Vince Lipani, Joseph ,LBR, any final decision is reachRubin, Robert Rubin.
TX
Luis Perelman, Gary Turr 
Gerald Nelson, Steve Harwood, | got the mistaken 
Myron Straff, Maxim Clark, Dave j the changes have a 
Fisher, Len Lester, Robert Hawkfected, instead of simp 
ins. I proposals under consider
ed. He said that it was unfortu
nate that the bulletins had ap
peared as they did, since students 
mpression that 
iready been efbeing 
on.

---------------------------------------------------

Mxq/ j  0A1,cN, UAU1  y/F|/fFhw7/5/bi/M '- 19
Editorial
A Wrong Emphasis
Let it never be said that I am not in favor of the StudentFaculty Coffee Hours. I thoroughly admire ODK and Delta 
Skull for their efforts and initiative in the movement to im
prove student-faculty relations. Ill also admit admiration 
for any and all other student groups who attempt similar 
projects. Yet I do not believe that the discussion groups and 
teas and other such social gatherings will in any way sig
nificantly increase the degree of student-faculty relationship. 
The problem, which definitely exists and definitely is one 
that needs consideration, is something that weekly social 
gatherings cannot solve. A mere hour or so of conversation 
with a faculty member is not enough to solve a problem 
that, from this point of view, involves an extensive change 
of Carnegie Tech policy.
There is evidence that the students are in favor and 
are interested in decreasing the distance that exists between 
them and the faculty. Student attendance, which is often 
worthy of criticism, at the Coffee Hours has been generally 
large and looks like it is increasing. And from the reports 
on campus, more and more groups are planning functions 
which include the faculty. This is all well and good be
cause I think the faculty is interested in getting to know 
the students. The problem is, or at least seems to be, that 
the faculty just doesnt have enough time to know the Car
negie Tech student outside of the classroom. Granted, this 
is not true of all the members of the faculty. There are those 
who create time enough to meet the student, to get to know 
him, and to obtain an understanding of the student com
munity on the whole. But what of the majority of the fac
ulty members? Unlike todays high-school teachers, they 
cant complain about having too many extra-curricular class
room activities which interfere with their student relations. 
Nor can they claim that their class hours leave them with no 
time to meet the student. Rather, the problem lies in the 
emphasis which is given to research at Carnegie Tech, an 
emphasis which results in the problem now confronting us 
. . . poor faculty-student relations. As students, we voice the 
opinion that our faculty are of value to us . . . not only as 
classroom instructors in the fields of our choice, but also as 
persons with values and attitudes that could interest us and 
would help us in the establishment of our own values and 
attitudes. But how are we to know the person that is the 
faculty member when his time is taken up with a research 
project or an important paper or a speech thats to be given 
to his colleagues? There exist the complaints which center 
around the social groups on campus . . . that the students 
identify with them to such an extent that they ignore possi
bilities to create a campus with an intellectual atmosphere. 
But when the faculty, capable of fostering such an atmos
phere, provide us with only vague ideas of their own intel
lectual opinions and theories such that we cannot identify 
with them, what else exists but social groups among the stu
dents to provide the basis of identification? Studies have 
been conducted which can point to conclusive results that a 
faculty can influence the student body in its goals and actions 
throughout college and afterward. This is a faculty as a 
group, as a member of the college community. There are 
those individual members of the Carnegie Tech faculty who 
have influenced students but can we point to any one instance 
where the faculty as a group has contributed to the student 
bodys character?
This is not the fault of the faculty members whom, I 
believe, are as anxious to get to know the students as the 
students are to know them. Rather, the fault lies in emphasis 
on the role of a member of the Carnegie faculty ... an 
emphasis on research, on creating and maintaining Techs 
high scholastic reputation, and on scholastic honors and 
fellowships. And this emphasis creates the problem which 
we as students are now attempting to solve, a problem that 
in its existence, is detrimental to the student body, and is 
. too big to be solved by scattered social gatherings.J.E.N.
Attendance Has 
Been Poor At 
Coffee Hours
Dear Editor:
Although it is obviously not 
common knowledge on campus, 
ODK, in an effort to solve what 
it felt was a pressing problem, 
has initiated a series of weekly 
Student-Faculty Coffee H o u r s . 
Supplied with funds from a few 
interested members of the admin
istration, refreshments a/e pro
vided to all who attend.
Judging from the attendance, 
very few members of the faculty 
and the student body are suf
ficiently interested in this project 
of mutual understanding to re
linquish even a few minutes of 
their time, refreshments not with
standing. It is the aim of the spon
sors to provide a service for the 
entire campus; thus far, they have 
only served those students and 
faculty members already experi
enced in faculty-student commu
nications.
Enthusiasm
To be sure, those who attended
the first session were enthusiastic 
in their approval and strongly in 
favor of continuing the program. 
But it loses its purpose if the same 
few persons continue to be its sole 
tragroup communication or source 
of supporters.
Whether it is the failure of in
actual disinterest which has 
brought about the dismal showing 
at the first two hours, we do not 
know. We only hope that those 
students and professors who are 
conscientiously devoted to educa
tion will find our program worthy 
of support.
Sincerely,
Myron B. Salamon,
Chairman
Homecoming Is Necessary
To The Carnegie Faculty And Administration:
Very shortly now, the calendar committee will be de
ciding, through Carnegies educators, whether or not we 
should eliminate the Homecoming Weekend from the Car
negie calendar. I must agree their#------------'----------
motives are sterling.
A decrease in the time off dur
ing a school year will permit 
more days of class and a more 
compact term. The faculty and 
students will have a longer sumer if other similar time off re
movals occur. A faculty member 
will enjoy more summer research 
time, and the students earning 
power for a summer will be in
creased. Carnegie Techs summer 
recess now starts later than most 
schools, but conceivably the com
mittee can place us par for the 
course.
My criticism involves a person
al bias toward Carnegie Techs 
education, it is not equal, but 
different and much better than 
most colleges. However, I am 
afraid there is a misdirection of 
the ecduational philosophy when 
we gauge the education of an in
dividual in days per year. The 
Carnegie educators certainly dont 
use that as a sole basis, but there 
appears to be an over emphasis 
on this mechanical view of the 
students mind. The finger pointed 
caustically at the trimester plan 
at Pitt and other schools can be 
justly directed to Techs move to 
decrease the small intermittent 
holidays of Homecoming and 
Spring Carnival.
Todays educators panic as the 
faculty does not expand at the
same rate as students, an air of I results in a fresh look at the probimpersonality arises, expansion, lem and a quick and easier solubecomes necessary, solutions are tion. Considering the general pressought for the increased number sure of a total academic program,
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
YCCN0,Es v3M/k33F 73Mb_3Mw 03T|5e A33bLB~B v3M/k33F g/|T/- D__fiTMl! 
LaW DhW
DnY1,Es 03O,F_3Mfs vS "OP~PRW vS aOBRBu 6Tf|/ff vh|hl/MvSW ~OPL'au F 
vlMW vS 1-3855. DTief!/F k//oew FTM|l x!/ f5!33e w/hM /p5/r_ !3eFhwf h|F 
/phb|h_3| r/M3Ff iw _!/ f_TF/|_f 3* 0hM|/l/ N|f__T_/ 3* U/5!|3e3lwD__fd
iTMl! 13, DhW
WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWLzz 1hSr3Te3f
qHO,F_3M WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW 6zL D/|5/
6Tf|/ff vh|hl/M WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWvo/ 6hefhb
fff_h|_ 6Tf|/ff vh|hl/M WqHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH W H HHHH W4x$/r! ./g5!
Fg/M_f|l vh|hl/M WWWWWWWWWWWWWeeh| 9hee/|
/S! BS Editor .............................................................................Bob Q*
W5::W ? T 5ehff r3f_hl/ rhF h_ D__fiTMl!W DhW
VO OLUM qWH#W_qMF *3M |h_3|he hFg/M_f|l iw 1h_3|he Fg/M_f|l N|5W
of applicants, and the students 
mind becomes an object for rubber-stamping; educationa matter 
of mass production. Time study 
engineers or efficiency experts 
might be more appropriate to 
evaluate our educational machine 
at Carnegie.
As for the trimester plan, 1 
could agree with it only if an in
dividual student were allowed no 
more than two consecutive semes
ters, and ample and sufficiently 
spaced breaks existing during any 
semester.
Returning specifically to the cal
endar committees proposal to add 
a day and a half to the fall se
mester by eliminating the Home
coming Weekend and their pro
jected proposal to ultimately re
move a week from our yearly 
calendar which will probably in
clude removing Spring Carnival: 
Gentlemen, your educational phi
losophy is moving off base on this 
one point. May I suggest the area 
you may be avoiding.
This philosophy of compacting 
the academic year basically 
weighs an education in quantity 
from the source with a de
emphasis on quality received. Ex
tending this subject, we might 
eliminate all breaks or vacations,
-----------------------------------------
A Schools Function Is Academic 
Only; Dorm Rules Are Victorian
Dear Editor:
Why does a girl come to an out-of-town college? Not 
only to get a good education, but to attain some sore of in
dependence and responsibility for her own actions. Up until
the time a girl enters college, her standards of conduct have
 1 #been guided or fixed by her par
ents. The very fact that a parent 
sends his daughter to an out-oftown college indicates that he 
feels she has the maturity to act 
as an adult. After paying her 
tuition, a girl finds she has a new 
set of parents who are stricter 
than her real parents. They d< 
not consider her adult enough to 
decide where she wants to live, 
where and what she wants to eat, 
what time she wants to eat, what 
to wear to dinner, whether she 
wishes to keep a messy room or a 
neat room, how late she can stay 
out on a date, what criterion she 
shall use to decide whether a par
ticular occasion merits her stayinf 
out longer than she usually does, 
or whether she wishes to go home 
for vacations.
Advantages?
You may have the impression 
that I am against dormitory life 
for women. Actually I am not; 
dormitory life has many advan
tages. There is a lot of companion
ship, which is sometimes to^ 
loud; on each floor we have two 
and even three phones which never 
stop ringing, we have a nice look
ing dining room, in which you 
can engage in lively dinner con
versation, etc. All this is well and 
good for those to whom this type 
of living arrangement appeals. For 
those who do not like these par
ticular accommodations and wh' 
are mature enough to live on 
their own and take full responsi
bility for themselves, the situation 
is disagreeable.
Besides the esthetic qualities of 
dormitory life there are monetary 
factors involved which every col
lege student will appreciate. The 
cost of living in Morewood Gar
dens for a month is approximatel; 
$100. One person can live very 
comfortably on $10 per week for 
food and $45 a month for rent of 
an apartment. This involves a sav
ing of approximately $120 a year. 
If two or more girls share an 
apartment the saving is even 
greater than this.
Academic Education Only 
To state my views clearly be
fore closiqg this letter, I woulu 
like to say I am not against 
dormitory life for those who wish 
to live in this manner, but I am 
against a Victorian attitude ex
pressed in compulsory dormitory 
living accommodations for all outof-town women who want a de
gree from Carnegie Tech. A stu
dent enrolled at Carnegie Tech 
has come here for an academic 
education. Any other education 
the school wishes to offer shoulc. 
not be foisted upon the student. 
Sincerely,
Elaine Rothstein
as they would be useless to this 
philosophy. Just pump knowledge 
into a student, degree him, and 
make room as quickly as possible 
for another member of our in
creasing population  practically 
speaking, it is a necessary evil to 
guage our education in days per 
year. But, hasnt the receptability 
of the students mind in this 
knowledge transfer process been 
overlooked? Specifically, dropping 
Homecoming would be a mistake. 
Generally, I firmly believe a long 
weekend holiday is needed every 
five or so weeks to balance our 
heavy academic pressure at Car
negie.
The Carnegie educators may not 
immediately embrace this argu
ment. It has been a while since 
they have been students, and the 
present day pressure upon educa
tors is forcing drastic moves to 
meet weighty problems. I doubt 
if they are as familiar with the 
mind of the student as they think 
they, as educators, are.
Considering the solution of in
dividual problems, I can draw 
from personal experience and 
knowledge of psychology to illus
trate the value of a break. Many 
times after long hours of ardent 
study with no solution, a tem
porary break or some sleep often
temporary relievers  psycholog
ical breaksare necessary. It is a 
must to drop completely away 
from class work, and come back 
with a fresh mental outlook. We 
must have a Homecoming and it 
must be a weekend away from 
academics or it will not accom
plish its necessary purpose for the 
total Carnegie education. The 
same applies to Spring Carnival, 
these weekends are a necessity.
As initially stated, the attempt 
to compact the school year has 
definte advantages, but not at the 
expense of a reduction in a stu
dents receptability. In a positive 
view, the Carnegie educators 
might investigate accomplishing 
their purposes by shortening the 
long holidays of Thanksgiving, 
Easter, semesters and Christmas 
or by starting school earlier in 
the fall.
Please do not shake off this let
ter as just another gripe from the 
student body. It is written with 
sincerity toward its validity. And 
it is with an extreme note of seri
ousness that I sense a faulty bias 
and unfounded distrust in todays 
educators views of the student. 
Try to be more objective, step into 
the sphere of the student and con
sider this situation. Todays stuDear Editor:
How interesting it was this 
morning to watch the special offi
cers so diligently ensuring that 
Techs students didnt use the nice 
new parking facilities provided 
for them.
Somewhere, it would seem, 
there is an incongruity.
John W. Wesner 
Grad Mech Engng
dents insist on a good education 
and we may be correct on this 
particular issue. For the calendar 
committee, it at least merits seri
ous consideration.
Paul Farrell, 
Architecture, 196-

---------------------------------------------------

y/F|/fFhw7/5/bi/M '- LR~B  0A1,cN, UAU1  DhlM/ 
Mortar Board and ODK Serve 
The Dual Purpose of Education
What are the principal theories in modern art? How 
does philosophy fit in with the scientific image of man? These 
questions are part of Mortar Boards program for self-educa
tion. In cooperation with Omicron Delta Kappa, senior mens
honorary, the chapter has planned#----------------------
va variety of cultural and intellect
:al activities designed for the edi
fication of its members.
Apathy Attacked 
With this program in mind, the 
senior honoraries have undergone 
the task of helping to wage an 
attack against apathy on the Car
negie Tech campus. The difficulty 
arises in reaching the interest of 
as many students as possible 
finding common ground for drama 
students, artists, engineers, print
ers and liberal arts majors. With 
the introduction of faculty-student 
discussions, we hope that interest 
in intellectual development aside 
from specific courses of study will 
increase.
Organizations Endangered 
The problem of apathy is dan
gerous to all organizations on 
campus. All students at Carnegie 
Tech specialize in their majors to 
such an extent that they are 
virtually isolated from other de
partments. To be sure, they are 
well prepared for a career after 
graduation, but they fall short of 
preparation in related interests. 
They fail to realize that a broad
ening o*ones intellectual and so
cial life is perhaps the key to a 
successful career, and for that 
matter, a successful life. They ex
cuse their shortcomings by say
ing that there is little time left in 
their schedule for the pursuit of 
more generalized personal inter
ests. They envelope themselves in 
a .world of slide rules or grease 
paint or job sticks and emerge in 
four years as a candidate for a 
degree. What kind of degree? Is 
the purpose of college merely the 
technical training and shaping of 
a mind until it fits snugly into a 
single professional niche? If so, 
why not replace colleges with 
trade schools?
Dual Purpose
Higher education serves a dual 
purpose  to prepare the student 
socially and intellectually so that 
at the conclusion of his course of 
study, he emerges an emotionally 
mature individual who knows lot 
about his major field, has a good 
idea of what it is like to work 
with people on a project, and can 
carry on an adequate conversation 
about his philosophy of life or 
about world events.
CAMPUS 
PERSONALITY
Pi Delta Epsilon
gR,AFh,C
If the name of Ray Fessler be
comes associated with the word 
president, the linking is justi
fied. Ray heads three major or
ganizations on the Tech campus: 
Pi Delta Epsilon, Tau Beta Pi, 
ar.d Pi Kappa Alpha.
Ray was elected President of 
Pi Delta Epsilon, national journ
alistic honorary, last year when 
he represented the campus publi
cations in Student Congress and 
serves on its Executive Council. 
This year Ray was also vicechairman of the Freshman Camp 
Committee of Student Congress.
Scholastically, Rays grades as 
a senior metallurgy student con
stantly deem deans list ratings 
and qualify him for membership 
in Tau Beta Pi, national engineer
ing honorary, the second group of 
which Ray is president. He is also 
a member of Phi Kappa Phi,
scholastic honorary, and Treasur
er of Omicron Delta Kappa, sen
ior mens activities honorary.
Recently, Ray was elected pres
ident of his social fraternity, Pi 
Kappa Alpha. Formerly, he was 
Assistant Treasurer, Treasurer, 
Council of Fraternity Presidents 
Representative, and Vice-President. He ha? also been active in 
intra-murals, playing on the fra
ternitys teams in basketball, 
handball, and, more recently, 
bridge.
Ray presently holds a National 
Honor Scholarship, awarded him 
as a senior at North High School 
in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, where 
he was Chapter President of the 
National Honor Society and also 
received an Elks Most Valuable 
Student Scholarship. He partici
pated in debates, dramatics, Na
tional Forensic League, and play
ed bass in the school orchestra 
and dixieland band.
SPACE TECHNOLOGY LABORATORIES , 
INVITES
GRADUATE STUDENTS
to discuss careers in the space sciences with members 
of its technical 
staff when they visit your campus on
DECEMBER 12, 13
Space Technology Laboratories, Inc. of Los Angeles, California, 
maintains a large staff of skilled specialists who are devoted entirely to the research and 
development of advanced space and missile systems.
Recent STL achievements include Explorer VI and Pioneer V, for which STL 
had complete systems responsibility In addition, STL provides 
systems integration and test for the major Air Force Ballistic Missile Weapon Systems.
You are urged to see our representatives if your interests 
are in any of the following challenging fields:
Theoretical Physics 
Magnetohydrodynamics 
Experimental Physics 
Solid State Physics 
Applied Mathematics 
Digital Computers 
Space Communications 
Computer Design 
Radar Systems 
Guidance m Navigation
Antennas and Microwaves 
Telecommunications 
Inertial Guidance 
Electro-Mechanical Devices 
Analog Computers 
Engineering Mechanics 
Aerophvsics 
Applied Aerodynamics 
Propulsion Systems 
Systems Engineering
Please make arrangements with your placement office for interview appointment.
If unable to see our representatives, you may contact STL by mail.
Address your resume to: College Relations. Space Technology Laboratories, Inc.
P. O. Box 95004, Los Angeles 45, California.
SPACE TECHNOLOGY LABORATORIES, INC.
Foreign Students 
Are Eligible For 
Power Seminar
Applications are now being ac
cepted for a seminar on The 
Division of Power in the United 
States Government, which will 
be held in Washington, D.C., from 
February 1 through the 4th of 
this year. The three and a half
day program will include visits to 
the Congress, the Supreme Court, 
and the Executive Offices.
Sponsored by the Foreign Stu
dent Service Council of Greater 
Washington, a private, non-profit 
agency established to furnish help 
and hospitality to foreign stu
dents, these seminars \ "ovide 
selected foreign students with op
portunities for discussing import
ant aspects of American public 
life recognized leaders in these 
fields.
The first of these seminars, 
held last June, dealt with the 
1960 elections, and the partici
pants, including Mike Adler, a 
junior, in Industrial Management, 
were unanimous in their praise of 
the program, which they felt had 
been a unique experience.
This years seminar will be 
open to twenty foreign sctudents 
selected from institutions all over 
the country. Each successful ap
plicant will be provided with a 
tracel scholarship for the journey 
to and from Washington and will 
be the guest of a local family for 
the duration of the program. 
Scholarships are not restricted to 
any particular field of study but 
will be awarded to students who 
are outstanding both in their edu
cational activities and in the role 
they play on campus.
Quartet To 
Begin The Next 
Three Concerts
The second in a series of four 
programs of chamber music by 
the Phillips String Quartet will be 
presented in the Carnegie The
ater, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Sunday, December 4 at 
8:30 p.m.
The series, which features the 
first complete performance in 
Pittsburgh of the Art of Fugue by 
Bach, is sponsored by the De
partment of Music, College of Fine 
Arts at Carnegie Tech.
KThM_/_ v/bi/Mf
Each program in the series will 
bsgin with a portion of this great 
work transcribed by Roy Harris 
and M. D. Herter Norton, with an 
illustrated lecture by Roland 
Leich, Associate Professor of Mu
sic. The quartet is made up of 
Eugene Phillips and Joseph Bishkoff, violin, Filia Caloyer, viola, 
and Eugene Eicher, cello. They 
will be assisted in this perform
ance by Nelson Whitaker and Har
ry Franklin, piano and James Wil
son, clarinet. Mr. Eicher, Mr. 
Leich, Mr. Whitaker, and Mr. 
Franklin are members of the De
partment of Music faculty, and 
Mr. Phillips teaches in the pre
paratory division. Mr. Bishkoff, 
Mrs. Caloyer, and Mr. Wilson are 
all graduates of the Department 
of Music.
Program
The program for the second 
concert follows:
1. The \rt of Fugue.... J. S. Bach
2. String Quartet in D Major,
op. 64 No. 5, The Lark..
.......................Joseph Haydn
3. Quintet in E Flat Major for
Piano and Strings, op, 44
..................Robert Schumann
No tickets are required for ad
mission.
MARK FIVARS
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Featuring
Pianist Paul (lohen 
JA 1-8384

---------------------------------------------------

W y,I0Yv, | 
J EUS7,1UE p
CAMPUS CLEANERS
? 2 Hour Shirt Laundry
? 1 Hour Dry Cleaning Service
? Rough Dry Laundry
IU,AUNY1E O UNIYAN1c O A,DNAN1c
4609 FORBES AVE. (near Craig St.! 
MUseum 1-1288
PAINT - TOYS - HARDWARE
OAKLAND HARDWARE and 
TOY COMPANY
3606 FORBES MA 1-0923
<>Now Open on Wednesday <?
CAMPUS BARBER SHOP
COMPLETELY REMODELED INTERIOR oi ?Open Monday - Saturday < ?
For Shoes See  . WALLY'S
SHOE STORE
C AM PUS SHOES for MEN and WOMEN U. S. KEDS 
NOVELTIES  FLATS and OXFORDS lor WOMEN 
JARMAN and FLORSHEIM SHOES 
3612 FORBES AVE. <Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Frida.; Night till 9 PJW.
A new <wd vital /ore
AEROSPACE CORPORATION
engaged in accelerating the advancement of space science and technology
Dxx/   0A1,cN, UAU1  y/FbxFhN*/5/bi^M % LR0~ G
"Essentially, this corporation will be 
peoplepeople of the highest quality. The United States Air Force recognizes that men of great scientific and technical competence can perform at their best only when they can exercise their Initiative to the full under leadership which creates the climate for creativity. We expect Aerospace Corporation to provide that kind of 
environment"
CARNAEGNI ST EUT OFN HSNRA
Among those providing their leader
ship to tbit new non-profit public 
service corporation are: Dr. Ivan A. 
Getting, president; Allen F. Donovan, 
senior vice president, technical; Jack 
H, Irving, vice president and general 
manager, systems research and plan
ning; Edward J. Barlow, vice president 
and general manager, engineering divi
sion, and Dr. Chalmers W. Sherwin,
vice president and general manager, 
laboratories division.
These scientist/administrators are 
now selecting the scientists and engi
neers who will achieve the mission of 
Aerospace Corporation: concentrating 
the full resources of modern science 
and technology on rapidly achieving 
those advances in missile/space systems 
indispensable to the national security.
The functions of Aerospace Cor
poration include responsibility for: 
advanced systems analysis; research 
and experimentation; initial system 
engineering; and general technical 
supervision of new systems through 
their critical phases, on behalf of the 
United States Air Force.
Aerospace Corporation is already 
engaged in  wide variety of specific 
systems projects and research pro
grams-offering scientists and engineer* the opportunity to exercise their 
full capabilities, on assignments of 
unusual scope, within a stimulating 
environment.
Immediate opportunities exist for MS 
and PhD candidates completing require
ments in engineering, physics, and 
mathematics, and interested in:
 Theoretical Physics
 Experimental Physic
 Inertial Guidance
 Propulsion Systems
 Computer Analysis
 Applied Aerodynamics
 Space Communication
Those capable of contributing In the* 
and other areas are invited to direct 
their resume* to:. 140Mr. James M. Benmng, Room 
P.O. Box 95081, Los Angeles 45, Calif.
The ad in the paper, and the names in the cast promised 
first-rate mystery entertainment. Rex Harrison is a smooth 
and subtle actor, and Doris Day had done well in the mysteryand-suspence format in such past things as The Man Who
Knew Too Much and Julie. < 
Also I r.m a notorious sucker for 
a mystery, and will give even an 
indifferently-done one every break 
in the book.
Unfortunately, the recent even
ing I snent at the Fulton theater 
downtown watching Midnight 
Lace was somewhat disillusion
ing in nearly all respects. Its two 
main faults were script and di
recting.
Script
The script was, at times, down
right appalling. It caused me to 
marvel once more that people are 
actually paid good money to write 
such things.
What very probably started out 
as a very good story was ruined 
in an attempt to distribute suspi
cion more widely among the char
acters. Several minor players 
were al! too obviously there for 
no other reason than to be sus
pected. They had little or noth
ing to do with the story, and what 
relation to the central characters 
and plot they were given was at 
best somewhat contrived, and at 
worst embarrassingly clumsy.
To top the whole horror off, a 
character who has very much to 
do with the plot is thrown in ones 
lace with so little preparation, or 
even justification in the last reel 
that I actually began to enjoy my 
popcorn. I have only scratched 
the surface of the script of Mid
night Lace. I wish I could go 
much deeper, preferably with a 
meat cleaver.
Directing
The second inhibiting element is 
the directing. This particular 
crime was perpetrated by someone 
named David Miller, whose film 
directing talent obviously lies in 
Fitzpatrick Traveltalks.
To begin with, the lack of imj 
agination displayed in the camera i 
work was astounding, even for 
Hollywood. Instead of creativity, 
Miller substituted garish and com
pletely un-swallowable color filter 
effects (I dont care how warm 
and ruddy the blazes in English 
fireplaces are, they should not 
bathe the entire room in bloodcrimson, which doesnt even flick
er) and the ancient suspense film 
cliches of shooting from above and 
below.
I also object strenuously to Miss
Doris Days being made to appear 
in a different outfit in every scene 
of the picture, each more breath
taking and fashionable than the 
one before. I found myself ask
ing the question, Is this a movie, 
or a fashion show? As a fashion 
show, t might have worked bet
ter.
The acting was a bit less blame
worthy than the other element. 
Rex Harrison was as smooth and 
subtle as I expected him to be, 
but seemed to have very little to 
do other than to embrace and 
comfor1 Doris Day every few min
utes.
Miss Days acting was accepta
ble although her hysterical scenes 
were a trifle forced. But if her 
name hadnt been in the credits, 
I would hardly have recognized 
her. Im sure it was lack of strong 
direction which was at fault, but 
her performance was quite a bit 
below the level she hit in The 
Man Who Knew Too Much, or 
even Julie.
SupportingCast
In the supporting cast, John 
Williams was a familiar and wel
come sight in his eternal role of 
the Scotland Yard Inspector, in 
which Im afraid hes hopelessly 
trapped. H e r m i o n e Baddeley, 
Herbert Marshall and Roddy McDowall, all fine ctors, were 
wasted shamefully. Myrna Loy 
failed to convince me of anything 
at all except that she was trying 
too hard. What is there to say 
about John Gavin, except Would 
Hollywood be Hollywood without 
its changing but undying Beef 
Trust.
If you do decide to see Mid
night Lace, which is lurking 
down at the Fulton, bring a good 
book and a small flashlight. Un
less, of course, you are interested 
in fashion design.
Note: I will not be reviewing 
Hiroshima . . . Mon Amour!! 
Not even for you, dear reader, 
will I sit through another dubbed 
foreign film.
Tech Placed SecondIn Novice Tournament
Feature Editor 
Appointed By 
Public Relations
The appointment of 4h|/ W 
Shaw as feature editor | _!/ 
Public Relations Department of 
Carnegie Tech has been announc
ed by Anson 6W Campbell, Direc
tor of Public Relations.
Mrs. Shaw, who has already as* 
sumed her new duties, will ex
plore, research, and develop fea
ture ideas and stories for local and 
national media.
A graduate of the University of 
Pittsburgh, she had been a mem
ber of the Pitt Office of Informa
tion Service for thirteen years be
fore joining the Tech staff.
Mrs. Shaw is a member of _!/ 
board of the Pittsburgh Womens 
Press Club, the American College 
Public Relations Association, anti 
Pi Delta Epsilon, honorary jour
nalism fraternity.
CURTAIN GOING
By J. D. Scaliger
Midnight Lace
UPCarnegie Tech topped twelve 
visiting teams in the win-loss col
umn but placed second in team 
points a'; the annual Tartan Novice 
Debate Tournament on Nov. 12.
St. Vincent won the tournament 
with 31 points. Tech scored 29 
points, but, as host team, relin
quished the second-place award 
to Pitt, B, which scored 28 points.
Techs 5-1 record included wins 
over Pitt A, St. Vincent, Mount 
Union, Penn State Women, and 
Westminster. The novices lost 
only to Pitt B.
Awards
Tech speakers won three of the 
fcur awards for individual per
formances. Tom Miller and Ed 
Peay were the top affirmative 
speakers, and Bob Hawkins top 
negative. As is traditional, speak
ers from the host school were eli
gible to retain individual awards.
Joe Gaida was the fourth mem
ber of the Tech squad.
Pitt sent three teams to the tour
ney and Westminster, two. Other 
schools attending were Duquesne, 
Grove City, Penn State Women, 
St. Vincent, Washington & Jeffer
son, Mount Union, Penn State of 
McKeesport, and Carnegie Tech.
Allan Topol
Allan Topol has begun his colEROSPACE
CORPORATION
are creating a climate conducive 
to significant scientific achievement
legiate career in extemporaneous 
speaking by placing second and 
third in the first two local con
tests of the season.
At the Duquesne Invitational 
Tournament on Nov. 18, Topol 
placed third in a field of ten 
schools in his first tournament. 
Kings finished first and Duquesne, 
second. Pitt, Dayton, Navy, Penn 
State, V/ayne State, St. Vincent, 
and Westminster also participated.
At the Mount Mercy contest on 
Nov. 22, Topol placed second. 
The junior chemistry major, who 
plans to attend law school after 
graduating from Tech, topped 
speakers from Pitt, St. Vincent, 
Mount Mercy, and Westminster. 
He was defeated by the speaker 
from Duquesne.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 7, 1960  CARNEGIE TART A?#  Ffege t
I i V, .........I H
loot it VI*
'*TIie Plague*
7/tis SRF*f, FA N, LFRA BL N, C,0 uBBl ;,_F,0 L,S3R, 
A,RF,A . YN, uBBl ;,_F,0 is a R,13fSR SCSf!AFA BL N, C,0 
SCh R,f,_SC fF,RSR! 0BRlAE YNR,, BL N, aBA NF1Nf! R,t
AT,*,h vC1fFAN aS4BRA FC eSRC,1F, Y,*N. 2,RBCF*S u,R17 
N*f4. b,SCCF, w31N,A. SCh bSCF*, efSFR*NF*l SR, *BBT,RSt
FC1 B SffB0 N, uBBl ;,_F,0 B STT,SR 0,,lf!E
YN, vhFBRA.
By Veronica Bergholz
THE PLAGUE - by Albert Camus 
The plague has struck Oran. This remote phantom of 
incredible chronicles of the past has reappeared to terrify 
an outraged modern city which lives according to the orderly 
dictates of habit and clinical efficiency. The inhabitants are
bewildered by the hordes of dead#--- ---------------;
ra'T which litter the streets and 
the strange fever which consumes 
and multiplies its victims with 
alarming celerity. Panic follows 
uncertainty as the authorities en
force emergency measures. The 
gates of the city are closed. In 
their isolation the people of Oran 
are prisoners and exiles, for a 
feeling of abandonment and emp
tiness never frees them. They 
cannot endure and cannot change 
thv indifferent procession of tinie; 
they are hostile to the past, im
patient of the present, and cheat
ed' of the future. All are united 
by the curious bond of calamity,-----------------
for arbitarary death levels out 
the subtle distinctions between 
men which seem so important at 
other times. The fear of contagion 
is overshadowed by the fear of 
being alone. Yet the situation 
created by the plague imposes on 
the people of Oran the realization 
that each human being is essenti
ally alone.
Dr. Rieux, devoted combatant 
of the plague, narrates the story. 
He traces the stages of his own 
thought, the reactions of other in
dividuals, and the changing tem
per of the town as a whole.
Cottard, fugitive from a police
inquiry, attempts suicide before 
the onslaught of the plague. He 
welcomes the epidemic, for in this 
situation all men are fugitives 
and are alike subject to an im
mediate fear of capture and im
mutable sentence. After the pes
tilence has abated, he is shot in 
a duel with the police, thus choos
ing violent death to judgment and 
sentence by the arbitrary stand
ards of men.
Just Punishment
At the outset of the epidemic, 
Father Paneloux preached a ser
mon. He told the congregation 
that the disease is the just pun
ishment of God, that they must 
view it as a purification of theii 
sins. Only after he spends a tor
turous night witnessing the death 
of an innocent child does he cast 
off his self-righteousness and con
front himself with the irreconcil
ability of the existence of evil 
and the divine benevolence of 
God. In his last sermon he heretically pleads for a united human 
fight against the plague, not for a 
Christian dependence on the di
vine mercy of God.
Raymond Rambert, a visiting 
journalist trapped in Oran by the 
plague, rejects metaphysical in
terpretations of life. He maintains 
that only love and the process of 
life itself can be meaningful. He 
wants to escape from Oran and 
return to his wife in Paris. But 
when the opportunity comes, he
discovers that because he is a hu
man being his destiny is now to 
wed the fate of this strange city. 
He joins Dr. Rieuxs team and re
mains in Oran.
Opponents Succumb 
Among the main characters, 
Jean Tarrou and Dr. Rieux are 
the most active opponents of the 
plague. Yet, in a sense, they both 
succumb to it philosophically. For 
Tarrou, the plague symbolizes 
mans ability, instinct, willingness 
to kill. I have realized that we 
all have plague, and I have lost 
my peace, he tells his friend. 
This revelation came to Tarrou 
with his realization that every 
man kills, directly or indirectly, 
by being a member of a society 
which commits rational murder. 
The ideologies of society are a 
cause, as well as a justification of 
the murder which society. But 
Jean Tarrou withdraws into a 
self-imposed exile from the com
mon guilt of man, thereby silently 
nodding his consent to rational 
murder. For him, this is philo
sophical suicide.
Dr. Rieux shares Tarrous con 
victions, but he offers an alter
native solution to his friends 
withdrawan. And that is complete 
involvement in the human situ
ation. What interests me is being 
a man, he once said. He is a 
physician and his life is conse
crated to fighting death, while 
knowing that his victories will be 
few and only temporary.
LUCKY STRIKE PRESENTS:
BeaR-DR: LORSSk
dr. FROOOS thought FOR THE DAY: Life aint all beer and skittles, as the saying goes 
but if enough students got together, maybe skittles could make a big comeback.
If
if'
if tL!
!
Dear Dr. Frood: I don't speak from personal experience, but I 
understand all the men in this college are wolves. What do you 
think a respectable girl like mewith a good old-fashioned up
bringingshould do about this situation?
yRSF /S*,h
DEAR STRAIT; Drop your handkerchief.
Dear Dr. Frood: I just dont understand the 
men in this college. Not one of them has 
ever asked me for a date. I am intelligent 
and easy to get along with. Enclosed is my 
snapshot. What do you think is wrong?
/,L -3
DEAR LEFT: After considering this problem 
from every angle, I can only conclude that 
you have enormous feet.
Dear Dr. Frood: When I entered college as a freshman this fall, my 
father gave me a very large sum of money to cover room, board, 
tuition, books and all other expenses for four full years of college. 
Because of an unfortunate series of poker games, however, the 
money is now completely gone. How would you suggest I handle 
this situation? 
Ten High
DEAR TEN: I feel confident that your father will give you another 
chance if you go up to him like a man, tell him you are sorry, admit 
your mistake and promise him that your luck will change.
m w x iwpis riMfi is mmmm m hi m i * mi nai
Dear Dr. Frood: According to my figures 
over ninety-five per cent of the students 
here are below average. What is wrong?
nSN nS4BR
DEAR MATH: You are obviously going to a 
below-average college.
Dear Dr. Frood: Do you think it is safe for 
a girl to walk home alone from a college 
dance?
Nervous
DEAR NERVOUS: Safer.
DON'T BREAK TRADITION, WARNS FROOD! One of the proudest traditions on the American 
campus, reports Dr. Frood, is smoking Luckies. Today college students smoke more Luckies 
than any other regular. According to Dr. Frood, Any student who breaks this tradition not only 
robs himself of the full pleasure of smokingbut also could, conceivably, bring the Curse of 
Frood down upon the entire student body.
CHANGE TO LUCKIES and get some fosfe for a change!
gRBh3*FL f'F~FS*x qBC!rRCL  4j~Srr" FA B3R aFhhf, R3FCF
CULTURAL 
CALENDAR
Although the Pittsburgh Sym
phony Orchestra will present no 
program this week, no one should 
have trouble finding a musical 
offering of interest in Pittsburgh 
this week.
Starting tonight, the first music
al program of the week will be 
a violin concert by violinist Stu
art Canin at the Y.M. & WIIA at 
8:30. Mr. Cainin was the first 
American to win first prize in the 
International Paganini Violin 
Competition in Genoa, Italy. This 
award, comparable in stature to 
the Levenritt Award, should in
dicate that his program will be 
worthwhile.
Friday night, the Bach Choir 
of Pittsburgh will present two 
Christmas works in a program at 
Carnegie Music Hall. The first 
number will be a choral masterwork by Bach, his Magnificat in
D. It is an extended cantata in
12 movements made up of solos, 
choruses, and one duet. The other 
work will be Ceremony of 
Carols by Benjamin Britten. 
This is a collection of nine early 
English chorals and two Latin 
Chants.
Then, the Duquesne University 
Opera workshop will perform two 
Menotti comedies on Sunday, De
cember 11 at 2:30 p.m. and on 
December 12 and 13, at 8:15 p.m. 
in their campus theater. The first 
work, The Telephone, concerns 
a young man who cannot com
plete his proposal to his girl be
cause of the constant interruption 
of the telephone. The second, 
The Old Maid and the Thief, 
tells the story of a busybody.
Also on Sunday, Jazz Horizons 
Unlimited will bring Quincy 
Jones and his Orchestra for the 
second concert in their series. 
Jones was the first place winner 
in the 1960 Downbeat poll for the 
best new band. His 18 piece or
chestra features Phil Woods, 
Jerry Richardson, Les Sphan, and 
Pattie Ann Bowen. The program 
will be held in the ballroom oi 
the Penn-Sheraton Hotel at 8:15 
p.m.
The final musical program of 
the week will be given Tuesday 
evening, December 13, at 8:30 at 
the Syria Mosque. Karl Kritz will 
conduct the annual presentation 
of Handels Messiah on that eve
ning. The Mendellsohn Choir of 
Pittsburgh will sing the work 
along with soloists Frances Yiend, 
Irene Kramacick, Jon Crain, and 
James Milligan.
However, if you will need a break 
from all the musical programs, 
you can take a walk down to the 
Museum to see two new shows 
that have recently opened. They 
I are an exhibition of International 
j Contemporary Glass, and an exhiI bition of Albrecht Duren. The 
j former will run until January 20 
and the latter through January 8.
Ensor Featured 
In Techs 
Hewlett Gallery
* Drawings and Prints by the 
noted Belgian expressionist, James 
Ensor are currently being exhitited at the Hewlett Gallery at 
J Carnegie.
I The show, which is made up of 
30 items from the New York and 
Chicago Franklin Galleries and 
three from the Carnegie Institute, 
will continue until December 2.
Ensor, whose work reaches fro n 
the early Flemish naturalism 
through post impresisonist schools, 
died in 1949 at the age of 89. His 
life spanned many of the lives 
of those most influential in mod 
ern art today and his works are 
based on his acceptance of the real 
workl as a point of departure into 
the poetic.
Honored by having his paintings 
in most of the important collections^in, the world, Ensor was also 
jknight&d by his King.

---------------------------------------------------

Dhl/ P  0A1,cN, UAU1  y/F|/fFhw7/5/bi/M '- NR~B
digital computer. He is presidentindepen
powero.EINW tSHT lE.COTt hLWFM P h,.OO B.EWNW>
Shop Early For Top Gift Selections
Our store is positively overflowing with gifts to make him swoon 
. . . from $1.00 upwards . . . Sweaters, Bathrobes . . . Pajamas, 
Hosiery . . . Sport Shirts, Dress Shirts . . , Neckwear . . ,, 
Rainwear and Headware . . . All styled in the inimitable Marvin 
manner . . . Everything handsomely gift-wrapped Free-of-charge
interdistn of the 
Industrial
U(.tE.O hHLOFTE COLtHNW> FEWNMHNW>M* : J:
Pitt Campus - FORBES AVE. - Squirrel Hill (iJ
3939 Forbest Avenue MAyflower 1 -2700 |
5842 Forbes Avenue JAckson 1-7619 J
OPEN DAILY 9:30 A.M. . TUES. & THURS. 9:30P.M. & 9 P.M. j
anagement is underrevolution, he said, 
the area of decision 
aur understanding of
Civil Engineering 
Research Briefs
The Department of Civil 
Engineering at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology has received more 
than $90.000 in research grants. 
The grants were awarded by the 
National Institutes of Health of 
the Department of Health, Educa
tion and Welfare, and the Alle
gheny County Sanitary Authority.
Following is a brief description 
of the projects:
Dr. Thomas E. Stelson, Profes
sor and Head of the Department 
of Civil Engineering, and Dr. 
George Bugliarello, Assistant Pro
fessor, will serve as principal in
vestigators for an engineering 
study of the flow of foams. Sup
port for the two year grant, total
ing $32.798, came from the Na
tional Institutes of Health of the 
Department of Health, Education 
and Welfare.* * *
The Allegheny County Sanitary 
Authority has initiated a research 
study on the flow of liquid-solid 
mixtures through separation 
channels. This study will also be 
under the direction of Dr. Thomas 
E. Stelson, Professor and Head of 
the Department of Civil Engineer
ing. It is expected that the find
ings of this study will be directly 
applicable for improving opera
tion of the Authoritys treatment 
plant. The estimated cost for the 
study which should be completed 
in a year is $10,542.* * *
The Department of Chemistry 
has received an NSF grant of 
$20,500 for support of Nuclear 
Chemistry Laboratory Expansion 
under the direction of Dr. Tru
man P. Kohman, Professor of 
Chemistry.
A Magazine I New Grant
For Eggheads
The new magazine designated 
for college eggheads, eBffS1,. 
has launched its first Internation
al Survey of College Students 
(1961). Students from Hawaii to 
Canada are being polled by the 
magazine with direct mailings to 
hundreds of campuses and help 
of the eBffS1, student corres
pondents at more than 70 schools.
Survey Forms
Thousands of issued survey 
forms will ask students to list 
their tastes, attitudes and prefer
ences regarding, music, art and 
literature as well as fashions, cos
metics and other consumer com
modities. Results of this study will 
be made available to interested 
student, government and business 
organizations early in 1961, al
though the survey will serve the 
prime purpose of providing edi
torial and advertising facts for 
eBffS1,E eBffS1, is published bi
monthly from 1822 N. Orleans, 
Chicago, and deadline for receipt 
of the forms is December 31st.
Since there are no student cor
respondents at yet working for 
eBffS1, on our campus, the maga
zine has forwarded several copies 
of the survey to the editorial 
office of this newspaper where in
terested students may obtain 
them, or write directly to COL
LAGE. Students who fill out and 
mail back the forms receive a 
courtesy 33% rmp recording from 
one of the magazines new college 
radio programs, a portion titled 
The Night Before New Years, 
or a sample copy of the 50-cent 
magazine if they are unfamiliar 
with it  or both, if supplies 
last.
SHT F.COty hpT.kM . . .
Dr. Dale E. Strick
Familiar to most Tech students, 
Dr. Dale Strick, not only teaches 
a section of Western Civilization 
but is also Co-ordinator of Stu
dent Activities. Formerly from 
California, he did his undergrad
uate work at Reed College, Port
land, Oregon, and then went on 
to the University of Oregon where 
he obtained his masters degree. 
After three years in the Army he 
came to Carnegie Tech as an in
structor in history. He then pro
gressed from an instructor to 
Head of Housing, Chairrrtan of 
Financial Aid in 1952, and then 
to his present position as Co-or
dinator of Student Activities in 
1955. Speaking of his official posi
tion, he feels that the close con
tact with the students is espec
ially enjoyable and one of the 
greatest advantages in working in 
such a position.
Speaking to the students of Car
negie Tech, he says. Tech is now 
in the process of completing 
buildings which will give us the 
physical plant necessary to en
hance our position as an academic
community. I trust that in cocurricular, as well as curricular 
activities, we can use this plant to 
further develop the cultural and 
intellectual interests of our stu
dent body. Skibo will, so far as I 
am concerned, be of positive 
benefit to the degree that it makes 
possible this development. This 
accomplishment will be the re
sponsibility of those using the 
building.
7MWE_M5o
d*BCFC3,h LRBa TS1, 3] 
recent major advances in human 
knowledge.
7f5re|/f
Interdisciplinary a p p roaches 
bring to bear on one comprehen
sive problem the power and flex
ibility of several disciplines of 
study which are usually 
dent and isolated. For 
the engineering of atomic 
plants involves in addition to 
the newer nuclear physics and 
chemistry, the older 
disciplines of fluid flow, 
transfer and stress analysis ap
plied under new and more 
stringent conditions. And the de
velopment of modern rockets for 
military use and travl teo outer 
space clearly nedes the power of 
many disciplines. It is 
ciplinary wrork of this sort that 
Carnegie Tech plans to 
in its educational and 
programs.
Sf/*Te|/ff N| vh|hl/b/|_
Dr. G. L. Bach, dea 
Graduate School of 
Administration, stressed the im
portance of the Institute Profes
sors for work in management and 
the social sciences.
Modern management is 
going a real 
especially in the 
making and our 
human behavior. With these five 
professorships and their succes
sors Carnegie can break loose
from the traditional departmental 
boundaries and mount important 
new research and teaching ap
proaches to managerial and broad 
social-economic problems.
7MW vhT5!eWg 
Dr. Mauchly, the first Institute 
Professor, was co-designer of the 
ENIAC, the earliest large auto
matic and completely electronic
of Mauchly Associate, Inc., which 
he organized in 1959. He was 
formerly research director of the' 
Remington Rand UNIVAC Appli
cations Research Center in Phila-j 
delphia, and research director for| 
Remington Rand, Inc. In 1947 he 
became president of the EkertMauchly Computer Corporation 
acquired by Remington Rand in
youre ready 
for anything in
ADLERS !
COLDENFELD'S MARKET
OFFERS 
The Best Selection
IN
GROCERIES, MEATS, DAIRY PRODUCTS 
and FROZEN FOODS 
414 S. CRAIG
Where the Service Is Friendly and Personal
BAMBOO GARDEN RESTAURANT
3531 FORBES STREET
Un, CN1,EU 0nN1,E, 17 v,AN01 CYY7 
Special IT|5!/f h|F Er/5he 7||/Mf *3M E_TF/|_f h|F 6Tf|/ff 
Er/5he IT|5!/f h|F Er/5he 7||/Mf *3M 
E_TF/|_f h|F 6Tf|/ffb/| 
7NI. *M3b LLsaB WvW O L" vF|l!_ 
EUSA7. *M3b LLsaB WvW O LsBB WvW
ADLERS. IN WHITE AND COLORS FOR MEN AND WOMEN, AVAILABLE AT

---------------------------------------------------

y/F|/fFhw7/5/bi/M '- LRy  0A1,cN, UAU1  Dhl/ 9
HOLE IN THE
Kamlani To Visit 
Campus Next Week
Professor M. V. Kamlani, Head 
of the Department of Mechanical 
Engineering at the University of 
Roorke, Roorke, India, will be on 
the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology campus December 5 
through 7. 
Professor Kamlani will visit 
Tech as a participant under the 
technical assistance program of 
the International Cooperation Ad
ministration with the University 
of Wisconsin. The purpose of this 
program is to advance higher 
technical education in India. He 
came to the United States earlier 
this fall and Tech is one of the 
number of colleges, industrial con
cerns and research laboratories 
which he will visit.
Achievements
A 1929 graduate of Benares 
Hindu University, Professor Kam
lani spent almost 30 years with 
the Indian Railway Board before 
accepting his present position in 
April of 1959. He is the author of 
numerous publications in the fields 
of steam locomotives, mechanical 
stokers and coal preparation. He 
holds memberships in the Institu
tion of Engineers of India and the 
Institution of Locomotive Engi
neers of the United Kingdom.
Order Your Thistle Now!
O ) Please reserve a copy of the 1961 Thistle for me.
I have enclosed my check for $6.00
( ) Mail my yearbook to the address below. I have enclosed
17c for mailing charges.
NAME
Phi Nu Elects 
New Officers
Send This Order Blank with Your Check to:
The Thistle Box 122 C.I.T. Pgh. 13. Pa
OAKLAND'S ORIGINAL 
^frank & Burgers
ENJOY THEM BEFORE ORAFTER THE BALL VI jM fl
0YA1,A YC PP **e
FORBES & BOUQUET /<#?
SHT JTNTMt .WF oLMt ST,ptNW> ND wWN
HOT DOG Jfj
IN TOWN NpVrHi
BUY ONE  OR A BAG FULL Sfi Hi
2 Free Hot Dogs m? if j
With h|w YMF/M 3* &WBB 3M v3M/ 4mns 4
Yr/| LB WvW to 6 WvW  .Mil
were: Director, James E. Shaw
Tried
Regular
Filter
Cigarettes?Tried
Other
Menthol
Cigarettes?
NOW! Come Up...AH The Way Up 
to the MENTHOL M AG IC of KOOL ! __
MENTHOL
"When your taste tells you 
it's time for a change, 
remember: Only Kool 
no regular filter cigarette,
Do other menthol cigarette 
gives you real Menthol Magic!
YOU FEEL A
NEW SMOOTHNESS %
DEEP IN YOUR THROAT*i:
s ALSO > 
AVAILABLE 
WITHOUT 
. FILTER z
1960. BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATIONTHE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
LATERHE'LL BE OKAY, THANKS TO YOU.
VOU FLY WITH 
t YOUR. HEAP! \
NO, GL ACIER.
HOW DO ^ 
YOU KNOW?J\
THE RIGHT TASTE BECAUSEViceroys got it...]
W GLACIER. NO. 4. 
^ NOW-DOWN/ - 
THROUGH THE SOUP!OOF! A HOLE IN 
kTHE AIR.
A radio message has come to Tim 
Wade, Alaska bush pilot, from 
Cliff Laka Camp: "Man badly 
hurtneed doctor and nurse!r A MAN WHO THINKS 
FOR himself! must 
BE WHY YOU SMOKE 
VICEROY r~=^NOBODY COULD FiyjNTHlS SOUPjJ
GETHDOC. INA STRA/GHT line, CLIFF * IS FOUR 6LACIERS
iT/rX I9 6
BYTMEDOWN-DRAFT
GOT 1 
THE 
FILTER
/GOT
r THE 
BLEND!
r so>ou >
ACTUALLY FIGURED OUT 
WHERE you 
L. ARE BY 4 T DOWN1 
L DRAFTS'J
Not: Tim knew a 
glacier surface al> 
ways chills the air 
above itcausing a 
downdraft.
^ SURE IS! P* 
VICEROY'S GOT IT. 
AT BOTH ENDS]
*GOTTHE FILTER., GOT THE BLEND!^ FOUR. 
GLACIERS?>BACCO COUP.

---------------------------------------------------

Dhl/ Lq  0A1,cN, UAU1  y/F|/fFhw7/5/bi/M '- LR~q
What you need is a red suit, white beard, fat pillow, 
and a pack full of Esterbrook Classic Pen and Pencil 
Sets. You can be anyones favorite Santa if you give 
the smoothest-looking, smoothest-writing Christmas 
gift this side of the North Pole. Your choice of 6 holi
day colors and 32 changeable pen points, too:
S&tvdtoofi Shnb*4.95
THERE'S A POINT CHOICE OF 32  ONE IS CUSTOM-FITTEO FOR YOUI
Explorers Club Travels 
To Dulaney Cave
By Georgia White
On a warm, gay September day,
I set out on a brand new experi
encecaving.
The Explorers Club had planned 
a special trip for novices to Dulany Cave, which is near Uniontown in Fayette County. Our cav
ing expedition included Hugh and 
Alice Young, Truman Parkinson,
Alex Nesgoda, Dave Thompson,
Don Devitt, Joe Gaida, and me.
Early that Sunday morning, we 
all crammed into Hugh Youngs 
red and white Pontiac and set off.
Dulany Cave is seven miles 
south of Uniontown on U. S. high
way 40 along the crest of the 
Chestnut Bridge. The cave was 
named for Thomas Dulany who 
used to own the land under which 
the cave lies.
We sped along on wonderful 
roads until we got to the last five | and the Dining Room. Bats 
miles. This last stretch amounted 
to a torturous, cinder path. De
fying the laws of physics, it went 
straight up. At about 10:00 a.m., 
we arrived equipped with lots of 
enthusiasm, old clothes, and min
ers helmets with carbide lamps 
attached.
There are three entrances to 
Dulany Cave. Two are just large 
enough for a person to wiggle 
through, and the third is so big 
that horses could enter it. In fact, 
the cave is rumored to have been 
the secret hiding place of a band 
of robbers who rode horses.
After admiring the spectacular 
view from Chestnut Ridge, we 
went in the big, main entrance.
My first impression upon enter
ing the cave was one of coolness 
and darkness. The cave maintains 
a constant temperature of about 
55 F. the year round. A short dis
tance from the mouth of the cave, 
blackness obliterates everything 
except the pin-pricks of light 
from the carbide lamps.
The passage was somewhat nar
row and led down at an angle of 
23 degrees. Dulany (unlike many 
other caves) has big rooms with 
narrow connecting passages.
Ch_ vh|Gf vf/Mw
Soon we come to Fat Mans 
Misery. It is aptly named. To get 
by. we had to crawl on our stom
achs. Since a shallow stream en
ters the passage floor here, it is 
a messy procedure. Luckily none 
of us were too fat.
We followed the stream and
came to Bald Mans Head. This 
is a large stone in the shape of a 
mans profile. When we saw it, it 
had been paintedprobably by 
some P<?-D student.
We continued our journey to a 
room called the Post Office. About 
this time, I began to realize that 
my black slim-Jim pants were be
ginning to feel very loose in the 
back. This strange looseness was 
preceded by peculiar ripping 
sounds. With stately sophistication, 
I pulled my muddy sweatshirt 
down in the back and resolved to 
ignore the situation. ,
Then we reached Drip Stone. 
All other forms of calcite deposits 
in the main passages have been 
broken off by the many people 
who tramp through.
We returned the same way we 
came and passed the Bat Room 
~ are 
seen occasionally in the cave, but 
we didnt see any. Bats are the 
only form of animal life reported 
here.
On the return trip we noticed 
that the cave is made of siliceous 
limestone which is commonly 
called bluestone. This type of 
rock outcrops for many miles 
along Chestnut Ridge and Laurel 
Hill.
About four hours after we en
tered the cave, we emerged 
happy, tired, and looking like very 
dirty explorers.
Probably the earliest recorded 
exploration of Dulany Cave was 
made by John A. Paxton of Phil
adelphia and a party of five on 
September 11, 1816.
Later, in 1931, Mr. R. C. Bossart, a civil engineer from Braddock, mapped the cave. He was 
assisted by Claude Hollar of Un
iontown.
The eight of us squeezed back 
into the car. It had been an ex
citing trip. Best of all, when wye 
got back to Pittsburgh, we dis
covered the Pirates had won the 
National League pennant that aft
ernoon!
AEC Internships
The United States Atomic En
ergy Commission, through its pro
fessional internship program, pro
vides excellent opportunities for 
outstanding college graduates to 
begin careers in Government ad
ministration of the atomic energy 
industry. These internships lead 
to positions involving both man
agement responsibilities and ap
plication of knowledge in various 
fields of science and engineering, 
to administration of atomic energy 
programs.
Appointments are open to grad
uates with B.S. or M.S. degrees in 
Nuclear, Mechanical, Chemical, or 
Electrical Engineering, Chemistry 
or Biology, and Metallurgy or 
Physics, preferably with special
ized training and/or experience in 
hydraulics, heat transfer, and 
power plant design and operation. 
No testing is required. Other re
quirements are U.S. citizenship 
and a three month security inves
tigation.
The starting salary for recent
B.S. graduates is $6,345 per an
num, with promotion to $6,875 
per annum after eleven months, 
and to $7,260 per annum upon 
completion of training. Graduates 
with an M.S. degree will receive 
a starting salary of $6,840 per an
num, with promotion to $7,370 per 
annum after six to eleven months, 
and to $7,590 per annum upon 
completion of training.
For Quality 
and Selection1
See Our Display of 
Domestic and Imported 
Pipes and Pipe TobaccosI
Briar Bowl
3725 Forbes Ave. 
Oakland Pgh., Pa*
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
-----nxpTEt A.EbTEM-------
Guaranteed No Waiting
125 BOUQUET STREET
1/hM 03M|/M 3* C3Mi/f h|F 63T2T/_
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS for ARROW PRODUCTS
(.tNLW.OOy-kWLwW COLtHNW> .WF FEWNMHNW>M, DT.tENW> tIy VT.>T F.MHNLWM
' LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD MU. 2-5209 OAKLAND
Oxford 
for comfort...quality 
...appearance 
The rich texturing of fine oxford, 
the skillful tailoring give the assur#
once of being well-dressed. Case 0
in point: the Arrow Tabber, the au#
thentic British type improved with ,
self-snap tabs. Your wardrobe is 
incomplete without this Arrow shirt. 
$5.00
cum laude collection 
Tech Essay Contest Now 
Op en To All Students
The annual essay contest on, 
governmental and community 
problems, which in past years has 
been for undergraduates in E&S, 
IM and PM only,- is now open to 
all undergraduates at Carnegie
Tech. .....................................
Announcements carrying full 
details are available this week on 
bulletin boards around campus. 
Further copies and information 
can be secured at the history de
partment office, A. H. 132-A, or at 
the office of Dr. Dale E. Strick, 
Coordinator of Student Activities, 
A. H. 150.
Prizes
The decision to open the con
test to students in Margaret Mor
rison and Fine Arts is one of sev
eral changes proposed last year 
by the Undergraduate Advisory 
Committee, with a view of making 
the contest a more effective ex
pression on campus of the relation 
between Carnegie education and 
civic responsibility. The contest 
is supported by donors of the 
Alumni Fund for Greater Interest 
in Government.
The prizes to be awarded at 
Spring Carnival next May 
first prize $150.00; second
$100.00; and third prize, $50.00. 
Each additional finalist will re
ceive $10.00.
Entries Due Feb. 15 
Preliminary entries for this 
years contest will be due on F'ebi-uary 15, 1961, and finalists will 
then be selected by the H&SS 
committee of judges. The regula
tion limiting each preliminary en
try to simply a 600 word state
ment (plus any available support
ing evidence) is intended to make 
it possible for students to think 
over a subject and enter the con
test without having to make ;any 
large investments of time in aerial 
writing.
LEWIS
RADIO . ELECTRIC CO. 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 0 
Sales - Repairs 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
All set to play Santa Claus?

---------------------------------------------------

y/F|/fFhw7/5/bi/M '- LRqq  0A1,cN, UAU1  Dhl/ LL
Picture of the Week
Question: Will the student-faculty teas significantly improve the 
student-faculty relationship?
Sue Rose  Home Economics, 
Freshman  I thought the stu
dent-faculty coffee hour helped 
me to understand the teachers 
better. The discussions were help
ful in an adult relationship be
tween faculty and students.
Dr. Hugh D. Young, Asst Pro
fessor, Dept, of PhysicsI think 
so. They provide an opportunity 
for student and faculty to ex
change opinions on various cam
pus affairs, academic and other
wise. Students should not, how
ever, think of them as primarily 
a platform for utterance of great 
truths by the faculty. As a twoway informal exchange they can 
be very informative and useful.
Dale Douglass  Mech. Engv 
Sophomore  Meetings of some 
other sort could probably improve 
relations, but there exists the tra
ditional reserve between teacher 
and student. These coffee hours 
do very little to bring teacher 
and student together.
Dr. R. O. Moore, Asst. Profes
sor, Math Dept.  It doesnt 
seem likely that the student-fac
ulty relationship will change be
cause of coffee hours. The conver
sation took no different lines than 
that which takes place everyday 
in my office with some students. 
There are those on the faculty 
and those among the students 
who talk with one another any
way. As far as I could see, these 
people were at the teas and few 
others.
Kathie Sproat, P&D, Senior  
The coffee hours are an excel
lent idea, I think, because they 
are one of the rare times on this 
campus when students and fac
ulty members can talk informally 
without feeling rushed or con-, 
strained. People of different de
partments can mingle in an easy 
atmosphere. It would be good if 
more new faces appeared in the 
future.
Marty Cannon, Chem. Eng., 
Senior  The first coffee hour 
was very successful in that it 
drew quite a few people, includ
ing a great many that you might 
not think would attend. These 
students, T believe, will help by 
spreading the word to others. The 
main problem is that only a small 
percent of the student body at
tends these functions.
Tartan Office Houses 4 Publications
WAA Visits 
Slippery RockSAM ROSS
TUXEDO
124 OAKLAND AVE.
MU 2-7310
in the heart of Oakland
0 ,
? ? ?
Blue and Black Tuxedos 
and White Dinner Jackets
Two weeks ago, November 19, 
eight W.A.A. members attended a 
Volleyball Play day at Slippery 
Rock State Teachers College. They 
played teams from many other 
area colleges in the k'iendly com
petition and had a chance to so
cialize afterward while enjoying 
refreshments. This playday, like 
many others Tech attends, was 
sponsored by the Womens Ath
letic Association on campus.
The girls who attended were 
Nan Elson, Jackie Mazurek, Clau
dia Manuele, Barbara Roche, Judy 
Lee Sehiffer, Betsy Shepler, Betsy 
Shoemaker, and Barb Staats.
? ? ? 
Student Discounts
r SPEND YOUR
HOLIDAYS
f IN THE WORLDS oBKBM  nisiMOST EXCITING CITY
The worlds most famous YMCA invites you to its special holiday programs.
Clean, comfortable and inexpensive accommodations for young men and groups of all sizes are available.Rates: $2.05-$2.40 single; $3.40- $3.80 double.
Write Residence Director for Folder
WILLIAM SLOANE 
HOUSE Y.M.C.A.
Okay, so your heart belongs to me. Well, I saw the rest of you
with another guy last night,
356 West 34th St (nr Ninth Ave.) 
New York, N.Y. Phone: OXford 5-5133
(One Block From Penn Station)
John always did take things too 
seriously ... like that habit of locking 
his Coke up in a safe! Sure everybody 
likes Coca-Cola ... sure theres 
nothing more welcomethan the good 
taste of Coca-Cola. But really 
a safe just for Coke! Incidentally 
know the combination, anyone?Wishes All Carnegie Tech StudentsBE REALLY REFRESHED
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
QUAKER STATE 0Y0O0YI BO TT LIN G COMPANY 
5722 0/|_M/ Ave. HI. 1-7011
 D__fiTMl!- Pennsylvania
Here or Home a Merry Christmas

---------------------------------------------------

Dh// NE  0A1,cN, UAU1  y/F|/fFhw7/5/bi/M UNvq
SPORTS
Moopsters Bow 83-77 in Opener
The Tech courlmen bore little 
resemblance to Coach Cratsley's 
polished squad of last year this 
Thursday evening, as Gannon 
College edged the Tartans in the 
season opener 83-77. The Cratsleymen have four of the five team 
starters returning from last years 
fine team which finished with a 
commendable 15-9 record, includ
ing two victories over Duquesne. 
But this year's edition is definite
ly missing that fifth starter, a 6 
ft. 4 in. rebounder. With the re
bounding chores almost solely in 
the hands of 6 ft. 4 in. Andy Komer, Tech is tremendously hind
ered when Komer is out, especial
ly when he fouls out as he did 
Thursday night at a crucial point 
in the game.
The evening was not all for 
naught, however, due to the fine 
scoring exhibition by 5 ft. 11 in. 
Bill Sofia. Soffa, who is Techs 
leading all-time scorer, netted 36 
points against Gannon and adds 
to his record with every point he 
scores.
Gannon Leads
The men from Gannon led most 
of the time against Tech, and the
only excitement afforded the 
semi-filled Field House was when 
Tech (Soffa) put on scoring 
spurts to close up the lead. In the 
first half Gannon managed to 
build up a nine point margin over 
the Tartans just to witness its 
disappearance by Soffas fine 
shooting. Gannon, still held a six 
point lead at the half-time buz
zer, 39-33.
The opening minutes of the sec
ond half proved to be merely a 
continuation of the first half. Gan
non was able to work up an 11 
point spread in the half which 
was slowly eaten away by key 
buckets from Soffa and Komer 
coupled with the superb rebound
ing efforts of 6 ft. 1 in. Mike 
Flynn.
Tech Hope Revived
With 2 minutes remaining, Tech 
led for the first time in the half 
72-70. At this point Komer foul
ed out, crippling Techs board 
strength. Gannon began hitting 
and driving to outscore the Plaids 
13-7 in the closing minutes, giv
ing them the 83-77 victory. Soffa, 
was high point man for Tech with 
36 while Komer was the only
Vulcans Defeat Sigma Nu 
To Capture IM Football Title
The Vulcans reign as the footbal champions this year by vir
tue of a 22-17 victory over Sigma 
Nu in the finals. Alpha Tau Ome
ga took third place by defeating 
the Met Grads, 31-14.
Gary Adams again shone for 
the Vulcans as he led the way 
with his fine running and passing 
He scored the first Vulcan touch
down on a neat ten-yard run, aid
ed by a fine block by A1 Rolink 
that paved the way for the last 
previous yard.
In the second half, Pete Waslis 
took a short pass from Gary 
Adams and showed his dodging
Klepac Named 
Cross Country MVP
Glenn Klepac has been selected 
as the winner of the Varsity Clan 
Award for the most valuable 
member of this years cross-coun
try team by a vote of letter win
ners. He was captain and second 
man on the squad behind fresh
man Andy Niedra.
Klepac is a senior chemistry 
major and a member of Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon and Tau Beta Phi. 
Last year he lettered in track and 
cross-country, running behind 
Bruce Dobras in both sports.
Klepac pushed Niedra to a 
course record of 24 minutes flat 
in the meet against West Virginia 
and won the fourth place medal 
in this seasons West Penn Con
ference meet at Grove City.
This year's cross-country letter 
winners are Klepac and sopho
mores, Ed Barvick and Mike 
Campbell; freshmen, Niedra, Tom 
Bednarz, and Frank Moran.
Sigma Kappa 
Victors
The W.A.A. Intramural Volley
ball season ended with Sigma 
Kappa as the champion team. Six 
other sorority and independent 
teams were entered and the games 
provide i all girls participating 
with an opportunity for fun and 
recreation.
ability as he negotiated half the 
length of the field to score. The 
third touchdown came on a pass 
from Adams to Bob Brown. Lynn 
Adams contributed several fan
tastic catches and Bob Beitle con
sistently gave Gary the time he 
needed to throw.
For Sigma Nu, Wagner, Ernst, 
and Michael all scored on passes 
from Bob Konuch. Ernst almost 
scored again with only seconds 
remaining, but his ball was taken 
by a Vulcan defender, and time 
ran out with the Vulcans in pos
session.
Larry Russo
Shoe Repairs
420 S. CRAIG ST. 
MU. 2-8459
Favorites Lead 
In First Week 
Of IM Volleyball
The IM volleyball season got 
off to a good start this past week. 
With only ten games having been 
played, it is hard to make a pre
diction, but it seems that the same 
four teams, ATO, TDP, SN and 
SAE, will again win the first place 
berths in the playoffs.
In the Set League, the favorite 
ATO A, led by all-school spiker, Owen Johnson, rolled over a 
spunky KS team, 15-5, 15-6.
In the Pass League, the favorite 
TDP A, with spiker Steve Bohoe doing most of the scoring, 
crushed their rival BSR 15-0, 
15-2.
The Spike League found the 
favorite SN, led by 6-8 Steve 
Ernst, beating the Vulcans A, 
15-11, 15-7. In other spike League 
action BTP A* squeaked by 
DTD, 15-13, 1513, SAE P de
feated BSR B, 15-2, 12-15, 15-3, 
and BTP A beat BSR B, 15- 
10, 15-7.
In the Serve League, favorite 
SAE G, led by all-school setter 
Bob Walker, rolled to an easy win 
over Newman Club, 15-6, 15-4. 
Other League action found TDP 
G defeating Vulcans B, 15-7, 
5-15, 15-6.
tYII,.6II STANDINGS 
Ero/ I I E/_ I/bl|/ y I
BTP A" 2 0 A to A X 0
SN 10 PKT 0 0
SAE P 1 0 GSIA B 0 0
DTD 0 1 TBP B 0 0
I Vulcans A" 0 0 KS 0 1
| BSR B 0 0 Pass I/hlT/ y I
I E/Mg/ I/hlT/ W I TDP A * 10j .ppp ..G.. 2 0 GSIA A 0 0
SAE P 1 0 DU 0 0
ATO B 1 0 BTP B" 0 0
Newman 0 1 BSR A O 1 |
tTe5h|f ;6m 0 1
I PKA 0 2
other Tartan in double figures 
with 13.
Much of the cause for defeat 
can be attributed to the fact that 
key men Frazier and Williams 
were playing with knee injuries 
and werent able to work around 
Gannons full court press in the 
closing minutes.
Successful Year 
Predicted For 
Tecli Swimmers
After two months of intensive 
training, the Tech swimmers con
fidently await the start of the 
season. Losing only one swimmer 
from last years squad, Coach 
Claude Sofield forsees a success
ful year and plans to take, a strong 
team to Grove City on Dec. 10, 
for the first meet.
The return of all four members 
of last years freestyle relay team 
figures prominently in the opti
mistic forecast. As a team they 
set a new Tech record and won 
top honors in the post season con
ference meet. Individually, they 
excel in their respective events: 
Tom Vandersalm, Techs best long 
long distance man to date; Fred 
Shirm and Bill Dekleine, middle 
distances; and anchor man Pat 
Cresine, one of the most respected 
sprinters in the ronference.
v/Fe/w A/ehw
The medley relay team also 
came back intact. Back stroker 
Steve Ernst of this record-break
ing-aggregate also holds Techs 
backstroke record. Breaststrokers 
Steve Strassen and freestyler Pat 
Crecine also hold individual rec
ords. Dick Line, the fourth mem
ber of the group holds records in 
both butterfly and individual med
ley.
Also returning from last years
Tartan Cross Country Team 
Forfeits West Penn Crown
Carnegie Tech Athletic Director 
Mel Cratsley today announced 
that the discovery of an ineligible 
cross country runner has caused 
Tech to forfeit the West Penn 
Conference Championship, which 
it won last week, and also the five 
conference meets it had won dur
ing the year.
The Tartans apparently won the 
WPIAC Championship Meet at 
Grove City last Saturday 30-31 
over Geneva. However, upon in-' 
vestigation by Cratsley, it was 
found that sophomore Mike Camp
bell, a transfer student from the 
University of Colorado, was in
eligible under West Penn Con
ference rules. The situation went 
unnoticed until this time because 
Campbell was eligible under Tech 
regulations, since he had never 
participated in any varsity ath
letics in high school or at Colo
rado.
,elie/ S|F/M U/5! ATe/f
In making the announcement, 
Cratsley said We maintain a very 
strict record of eligibility-on each 
of our varsity athletes. In this 
case however, Campbell was eli
gible under our rules because he 
never before participated in var
sity athletics, but due to over
sight on our part, his eligibility 
in conference meets was over
looked.
ee y|f C3M*/_/F
The discovery means that Techs
team are freestylers Tom Mc
Laughlin, Ken Thompson, Vic 
Choleukicki, and Ira Rubin. Oth
ers returning are Bob Wendtlandt, 
Ken Kantrourty and Diver Joe 
Oldfield.
The Grove City-Tech meets are 
always as exciting as they are 
important. The Grovers have been 
very strong in recent years and 
seem to be the team to beat if 
Tech is to win the league champi
onship this year. Last year Tech 
matched them point for point un
til the Grovers showed their ex
ceptional strength in the non-free
style events. By all indications, 
this is our year to win the meet.
STOP AT
the woo die
99
awn
TRY YOUR SKILL WITH 
THE PENNY JAR
YOU MAY WIN
Entry Coupons From Cashier With Each 
Guest Check Over 35c
? .t tHT (TwOy iT,LFTOTF ?
WOODLAWN
/li ci nn a c it
5200 FORBES AVENUE 
MUseum 2-6300
CHECKS CASHED NOTARY PUBLIC
eNMNt lE (Tw CL,pOTtT sE> .WF CLM,TtNC sTp.Et,TWt
regular season wins over Grove 
City, Westminster, Duquesne, St. 
Francis, and Waynesburg will not 
be counted and that the Tartans' 
5-1 record will be changed to 0-6. 
This could have a very impor' nt 
effect ir. the very close race for 
the all-sports championship. It 
also means that Geneva will be 
awarded the WPIAC Silver Cup, 
and Campbell, who received a 
bronze medal for his _ourth place 
finish, will forfeit it to a team
mate Glen Klepac, who finished 
fifth in the meet.
Campbell is one of a team com
posed of three freshmen, two 
sophomores and a lone senior, 
which head coach Carl Olson Issveloped into one of the finest in 
the area. The only man earning 
a letter last season was senior 
Glen Klepac. The remainder of 
the squad consists of sophomores 
Ed Barvich and Campbell, and 
freshmen Frank Moran, Andy 
Niedra, and Tom Bednarz.
Tech Now Sixth
The iiitligibility discovery will 
mean a loss of 10 points in Techs 
standing in the WPIAC and v.Al 
drop the Tartans from second 
place to sixth place behind West
minster, Geneva, St. Vincent, 
Grove City, and St. Francis. 1
This is the B-52. Advanced as it 
may be, this airplane has one thing 
in common with the first wargalleys of ancient Egypt...and 
with the air and space vehicles of 
the future. Someone must chart it* 
course. Someone must CS_F1S, it.
For certain young men this pre
sents a career of real executive 
opportunity. Here, perhaps ! 
will have the chance to master a 
profession full of meaning, excite
ment and re wards... as a Naviga
tor in the U. S. Air Force.
To qualify for Navigator train
ing as an Aviation Cadet you must 
be an American citizen between 19 
and H$!F:single, healthy and in
telligent. A high school diploma is 
required, but some college is high1'* 
desirable. Successful completion ot 
the training program leads to a 
commission as a Second Lieuten
ant... and your Navigator wings.
If you think you have what it 
takes to measure up to the Avia
tion Cadet Program for Naviga
tor training, see your local Air 
Force Recruiter. Or clip and mail 
this coupon.
YN,R,?A S TfS*, LBR BaBRRB0*s 
f,Sh,RA BC N, -w! ^ 
5,RBATS*, Y,SaE I I ^
Air rorce
MAH THIS COUPON T0DAT 
AVIATION CADET INFORMATION DEPT. E0IYNE 
BOX 7COS, WASHINGTON j, D.C.
I am between 19 and 26Vi, a citizen of the U.S. and a high school graduate with___________year* of college. Please
send me detailed information on the 
Aviation Cadet program.
NAME______________________I 
I
! STREET.
I 
I
CITV___
COUNTY.-STATE
