TIME MACHINE
Spring Carnival 1984

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 Carnival Supplement
Delts, Kappas, SDC shine on the Midwa
By LESLIE HOTHERSALL When CMU students talk about camiTartan Staffumter val booths they have good things to sayIt makes you feel good. about everyone.The whole campus does things As this years Carnival kicked off to the together. theme of Time Machine, the Midway wasPeople are excited for the other houses if decked out with booths depicting passagesthey win from the Big Bang to the Roaring Twenties.One big smile. Among non-Greeks, SDC took first place
photo by Bob Fishel
Lothair Eaton (center) and Kadin Hopkins (left) were two of the stars of this year's SAE 
booth.
with a booth depicting medieval Japan. Players shot a Japanese crossbow at targets protruding from the back wall of the booth.Second place was won by Lambda Sigma, whose booth had players Save the Survivors of the Titanic. Rings were thrown at the survivors, including Barbie dolls and Arcdc sharks floating in a pool.The sorority competition was highlighted by Kappa Kappa Gammas Konestoga Wagon. According to booth chairperson Mary Isaac, the idea came from a massive house brainstorm. A great deal of research was part of KKG s booth construction. Isaac felt that the booth pulled the house together. As for the competition, she remarked that Chi Omegas second place boodi was really good. We were worried.Next year Kappas booth will be just as good, if not better.Chi Omega came in second with a booth that had players help Christopher Columbus discover America. Research came from books and pictures of old time maps and ships.Chairperson Lisa Fausti commented we all got together as a house and came up with a winning design.Remarking on the competition, Fausti said Kappas booth was excellent. It was very polished. The details were wonderful. In fraternity competition, Delta Tau Delta took the first place trophy with The Buddhas Temple. The elaborate threetiered pagoda was the product of approximately 40 days of hard work. The Buddha and the paintings were done by hand, and the Chinese characters were real. The Delts even received an offer to buy the artwork.Chairman Bill Mardn and Steve Mruz studied Buddhism and 14th century Chinese architecture. However, Martin remarked
that the idea was an endre house effort i kicked around a lot of ideas.
All of the Delts felt that second place Sa had a very good booth, and that SA helped us to drive for it.  They felt thatth won because their booth was complete all four sides. Martin said that SAEs I was very two dimensional.Second place in fraternity compete went to SAE. Their booth, A R0arin Twenties Speakeasy, was the result ofendre house effort. The Chairmen, Flanagan and Brad Harkavy, and the rest d the house were disappointed with the on come. However, a brother remarked \ will accept the results.
SAE felt that the Delts had a good bootlj but we thought we had a better booth someone else thought differently, its Oil Were not boastful.
Third place went to the brothers of Dell Upsilon. Their booth, Land of the Losf featured a huge dinosaur made of chicka wire, sheets and fiberglass. The id] changed a number of umes. According j Chairman Bob Churchill, DU wanted i use the same idea that the Delts used. TlJ were forced to change their idea wh themes were chosen. The idea changed I number of times even while the booth wj being built.Churchill felt that DU got about wh we deserved. You have to really want I win. He comments that SAE and the Del were very close, bui their booths were different that he couldnt choose which better.As for next year, Churchill said that i compedtion will be veryintense, wi ZBT back in the compedtion. SomebodJ going to do a lot of work and go homewj nothing.
Dont let the little guys fool you!
Youve tried the rest . . . Now try the BEST!
***********CAPRIPIZZA
For FRIENDLY 
service and 
DELICIOUS food
We use TRUE 
MOZARELLA cheese 
 DO OTHERS?
Mon. - Sat. 5 - 2 a.m. 
Sundays 3 - 2 a.m.
Sprin 10 CUT 
PZZA ONly
$2.47 + TAX
Plus 2 FREE liters of Pepsi 
FREE delivery 7 days a week
Eat in or order out.
This price for lunch/dinner
3415 Forbes Ave., Oaklandtele: 681 -2202, 2203

---------------------------------------------------

Carnival Supplement Page 3
oriess wins Spies with Saint-like moves
 - tr Tr'f' i.1-----* '   
ime
PETER corless 
told to MARK LEVINE
Entertainment Editor twenty-four hour paranoia. The Spies 
(ne> only one small part of Carnival, can e over your whole life. Or at least a days ,rth of it. His name was Corless. Peter rless. Thursday, at 12 noon, he makes his y through the littered sidewalks to the ce.they call Grey Matter. He coolly saunhis way up to the table where the array of 
pons was displayed. The contest didnt 
t for six hours but he had to choose the 
ht weapon. A mans best friend is his 
yirt gun. He tries them all, down the
e. For range. Water capacity. Grip. It had 
feel right. Finally, one seemed to have his 
on it. A see-through pink .45. He 
keted it and headed for the Info Desk. He 
ps through the C  Book, the Word. Now 
eres a face to go with the name. An Idress.Hammerschlag. Figures. He waits 
und. Checks out the breakdancers. 
e parachutists. Slowly but irresistably 
mg drawn, drawn to the Hill. To Hamierschlag. To destiny.
He walks up to the victims door. Knocks, 
Ills out his name, probably the last thing 
poor guyll ever hear. The door opens, 
guy walks out. Corless effortlessly blasts 
The victim looks at his soaking shirt, 
n at his watch. Hey, its five-fiftyo!. 
He had killed him eight minutes too 
n. Corless calmly followed his victimbe down the steps. Outside. They get to 
ramp and suddenly the quarry breaks for
jDown Margaret Morrison Street, up the behind the cinder block Studio
ieater, down to the ramp for the handiiped. A railing. He stopped. They look at
their watches. Five minutes. Then they walked. Back up to the Fine Arts Building. Towards Hunt Library, and the hunted starts to run, and Corless gives chase again, into the dreaded jungles of Schenley Park, the run proves too much for the soon-tobe dead man. He stops. Corless stops. Six oclock. He fires. Spies has begun.His victims contract was now in his hand. It had two words on it: Steve Volan. Now all Corless had to do was look out for guys who were 6'8". No problem. But Volan almost proved to be the hardest to find. Finally Corless spots someone, watching the Gong Show. Skinny guy. REAL tall. Hadda be him. Hi Steve. He turns. The pink gun fires once. The dead man is not pleased, but hands over his contract.
At 8 oclock, a kid in a green jacket walks into the Hunt Library. Sticking to the shadows, he glides up to the circulation desk. Eyes the librarian. Peter Corless work here?. The librarian honestly replies yeah, but not right now. When?. The guy at the desk didnt know. The kid in the green jacket disappears into the night.The time was now eight-thirty, and 
Corless stood on the Midway, the crumpled body of Volan bleeding at his feet. The name on the piece of paper said Colin Rafferty. A quick trip to the Library to check out the freshman Word, and got a look at the picture of the next guy to fall. Colin Rafferty. Yeah, that was him. Went back to the Midway, shouting Colin? Colin?. How many Colins could there be? Finally someone answered his call. Yeah?. With his girl at his side, Colin Rafferty heard the hiss of water from the pink .45 and fell to the hard gravel, crumpled paper and broken dreams that lay strewn on the floor of the Midway. Rafferty dug the contract out
of his pocket. It was Victor Shing.Victor Shing. Sophomore. Student Senate. One of Corless best friends. He didnt have a chance. The time was 9:30. The Midway was dark. Victor Shing stood at one end of the long lane, and at the end of his rope. He saw Corless coming. How ya doin, Pete?. Pete was doin fine but he had less than a second to live.Now it was late; His next victim lived in McGill. The fortress. All doors locked. Corless sauntered off to the Library, where he did work. Ten to two, that was his shift. The kid in the green jacket had been two hours too eager. From ten to two Corless was a sitting duck. Trapped behind a desk. An easy mark. He sweated it out. Spent more of the night painting the fence with the Astronomy Club. A perfect cover. Corless was not a member of the Astronomy Club.
After a few winks in his cot, Peter Corless awoke. Loaded up from the sink. Sacks the gun in the pocket, hums a few bars of The Saint and is off. Checks out McGill before breakfast. Its open. So far, so good. A quick breakfast (never let business get in the way) and back to McGill. Still open. Theres a face in the window of the room where his rabbit was holed up.Does he know me? Can he see the gun?. These were the thoughts going through Corless mind as he warily walked up the sturdy flights of stairs that stabbed like a knife through the heart of McGill. A knock at the door, water hitting a shirt. This guy already had two contracts under his belt A professional. But he had been stopped, stopped at a guy called David Nochlin. Couldnt find him. Youll never find this guy the victim said. But that remained to be seen. The Nochlin guy, he was known to be something of a hacker, hung his hat at a
little place called Margaret Morrison Terminal Room. That, then, was the next stop.The terminal room, no one had seen him. Did a where on him. Not logged in. Went to the Grey Matter. He had been sighted but the trail was cold. Then, passing the Grill, there, playing the Mario Brothers video game, was a face. A face Corless had made it his business to know. Video games, it turned out, really were bad for your health. Corless watched Nochlin finish the game, then he finished Nochlin.The next victim proved tricky. No picture in the word. Just an address to go on. He knocked on the door. The room  mates replied, no, they didnt think he was there they would check the other room, the bathroom. Meanwhile the guy whos name was written on the piece of paper clenched tightly in Corless fist was escaping. Up on the roof, and out. He made it. But it was no matter. Corless had enough to go on.It was 2:30. For three and one half hours, he had to lay low. Somewhere out on the dusty campus lurked the kid in the green jacket. All he had to do was make it until 6 p.m. and hed be safe. He loitered at the UCC. Grabbed a schedule of classes. It was five oclock. Couldnt eat at the barbecue, too public. Ate at the Kiltie. For an hour. Ever try to eat for an hour at the Kiltie? Finally, six rolls around, and the Spies gathered in the Wherret Room.Interesting dialogue filled the air. You were trying to kill me? I thought he was.... The kid in the green jacket never showed. He would never know who his hunter was, but Corless with his nine odd contracts came in easy first. The prize? Fifty dollars, cash, unmarked bills.Its a living.
Rogets Thesaurus English Words and Phrases.
Revised and Enlarged by Samuel omilly Roget. This is the classic American edition, with 1,000 major Wra-groups, of this invaluable, easy^use reference guide to improving vocabulary and expressing yourbetter in both writing and speak*8-6x9.756 pages.
Only $4.98
Sir Arthur Conan 
Doyle. With 375 Original Ulus 
Sidney Paget, George Hutchinson 
and F.H. Townsend. This all new, 
revised edition is bigger and better 
than ever. This handsome volume 
now contains 39 Holmes stories 
and three complete novels. Novels 
incl. A Study in Scarlet, The 
Sign of the Four, The Hound 
of the Baskervilles. Handsomely 
bound and stamped in simulated 
leather and gold. 832 pages.^,^
ByLESIHO
\*. THESAURUS WhenCMUst
' PHRASES :
imi
< UMtONSi MUCHA: Tho Cropluc Works. Ed by A Bndfts. 450 Color ond B4W Photos Hundreds of moomfkent tot plot, soys and the most complete catalog evet of the stylish and wrennofly popular works of Alphonse Mixta. 1 Ito x SW.Fuh. at suda
Only $14.98
ROBOT
By Jan Pienkuwski. One of the 
most inspired collections of 
pop-ups ever to spring from 
two covers! Winner of the 
Kate Greenaway Medal. Full 
color throughout.
73/4 x II 3/<. Pub. at $9.95 
Only $4.98
Albirt yTRAph
RELATIVITY
f tmnlifrinniMiril LuMrornrTOfwora wyman's xplanationwritten by Einstein himsdf-d Mr epoch-making theory that ushered in the atomic age.
Nnt, otbF iseOnly $2.98
BEATRIX POTTER 
GIANT TREASURY
Five childrens classics by Beatrix Potter, enhanced by more than 120 of her original illustrations in color and b&w. Features The Story of a Fierce Bad Rabbit; The Stoiy of Miss Moppet; The Tale of Tom Kitten; The Tale of Jemima Puddle Duck; The Roly-Poly Pudding. 8 % x lOVt 
. Only $3.98
LAWRENCE SANDERS: FOUR 
COMPLETE NOVELS. Four phenomenal crime 
thrillers from the superstar storyteller of our era. 
Incl. The First Deadly Sin, The Sixth Com
mandment, The Anderson Tapes, The Marlow 
Chronicles. 864 pages. Pub. separat^ a|^34 80.
VISIONS OF THE UNIVERSE
inspjrjn Preface by Carl Sagan. 46 magnificent portraits of the most awe
irtist K Cosmoio,c*l structures in our universe painted by renowned Japanese
enlijht Zu**ti 'w**lti. Each stunning portrait is accompanied by a brief,
Pub description by Isaac Asimov l4'/i x 10'/<.29 95. Only $12.98emu bcckstere
IN BAKER HALL

---------------------------------------------------

Photos by Bob Fishel, 
Neil Greenblum, Eric 
Horn, Mike Pilewski, 
and Eric Targan.
CMU
Each year, the Sweepstakes 
highlights Spring Carnival. 
But as shown by these pho
tos, the buggy races are a 
combination of the thrill of 
victory, and the agony of 
defeat.Sigma Nu had reason 
to celebrate, while this Kappa 
Sig brother gave his all for 
little reward.
ATO's John Wise shows the 
extreme look of determina
tion that many buggy 
pushers showed this past 
weekend.
The Outlaws came to CMU 
Friday night along with Alex 
Cole.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnival Supplement Page 5
tiS
Carnival
The Midway draws all kinds 
of folk for the Carnival extra
vaganza. In these photos, 
mime Dan Kamin is shown 
in an act of chivalry toward a 
young woman; meanwhile 
Paula Patula entertains a 
child at the Tri-Delt booth.
The free roll is a key part of 
any buggy race, where the 
drivers control their own des
tiny. Here Audrey Greenfield 
drives the Mach I to victory in 
heat 14.
In this photograph, the ferris 
wheel is turned into a large 
disk of white light.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 Carnival Supplement
Overview of Carnival by a resident veteran
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Contributing EditorTheyve told me to write a Spring Carnival analysis comparing it to last year. You see, I am one of the few "veterans (meaning not a freshman) still affiliated with TheTartan, and therefore, one of the few who would have anything with which to compare Spring Carnival 84. So here goes. . . Invariably Carnival is Carnival with a few differences here and there. What really makes Carnival different are the people that
you have fun with and what you choose to do (and how far you are willing to go). To this end, because of the absence of a few organic mind-stimulating substances, which I wont mention here, last years Carnival was better for me.However, that doesnt mean this years Carnival was bad. Far from it. But it was no different from last years, or probably the year befores. Every year there is a concert, buggy, booth, rides, etc., and while they are interesting, tney are basically the same. I found all of it more exciting last year when
everything was new and different. Now, its all old hat. Im not complaining, mind you.Carnival was probably much different for ZBT, as they felt the weight of probation. ZBT, usually hard to beat in booth competition, must have groaned in frustration as DTD built a beautiful replica of an oriental pagoda and took first prize (maybe Im partial to the beauty of it?). They must have gotten some satisfaction in seeing rival DU take third place.Speaking of absent fraternities, ATO made a reappearance after probationary action put them out of buggy and booth competition at Spring Carnival 83.Buggy, as usual, was the highlight of Carnival. Expected contenders in the mens heats, Pika, SN, and Beta, all made top-form showing, and CIA, like last year, was in the top six. Theta Xi made an exceptionally strong showing this year with their new buggies Rapier and Littlenip.The womens heats were a surprise. CIA had won the womens heats for the last seven years and were expected to win again this year. It was well known that Theta, pushing for Pika, were hoping to make a strong showing against CIA. No one expected them to beat CIA. However, the Thetas, pushing Pikas C buggy, Bullet, with driver Kim Ciulla, managed to squeak by CIAs Black Magic arid beat them by 0.5 seconds, a bitter defeat for the CIA womens push team to swallow.It was a great Spring Carnival for Pika, walking away with all three top places in the buggy competition, including the men, women, and alumni. We'll have to see if CIA can make a comeback. I hope so.This year there was no controversial crash 
between Betas and Pikas buggies, and Pika
presented no revolutionary pushbars. Kap, however, did introduce a two wheels buggy, appropriately nicknamed Flippy.One feature of Carnival I did enjoy the breakdancing exhibition at openin ceremonies. This nationwide fad provider an interesting opening to Spring G*miVa 84. Later that night, another unplann breakdancing exhibition took place at the SDC Gong Show, also showing CMU U some surprisingly talented comedians in it midst. The breakdancers walked away wit) the first prize. They were great, considerim they were so young. Mike Osgood, a Kapp Sig brother, took second place with hi comedy act. His monologue was so funnl that the audience booed his gonging anl Mike returned to finish his act. OsgooJ turned out to be a magician as well as I comedian, when he successfully resurrectJ a burned five dollar bill. 1
The Outlaws were one of two AB concert! this year. Their opening act, comedian Alel Cole, was very funny, but I cant say th| same for the Outlaws. But then, I never dij enjoy Southern Rock. Some do, as was evi dent in the pretty sizable showing on the cul Neither did I enjoy Renaissance anl Pousette Dart last year (I fell asleep). But! have heard otherwise from others, so maytl I just dont have good taste in music. I In conclusion (which is taboo for neJ writing, which is what I primarily do), Idl appreciate that everything is free, basicalll and that the Spring Carnival CommitJ put together some interesting acts. Anl then, buggy is always exciting, especially! you have some stake in it. The best parti Spring Carnival is an excuse for the who! school to get drunk and party and I thankal types of distributors, etc. for that. 1WRCT announcer and SAE brother Dave Schott helped prove with the Limo that it's not 
always the time that counts.
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
The management invites the Faculty 
Mermbers, Graduate Students & CMU Guests 
to visit and inspect our ONE BEDROOM & 
STUDIO APARTMENTS that could become 
available for May, June, July and August 
occupancy.
 WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS FROM CMU
 REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
 THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
 'THE FAIRFAX" ... 4614 5th Ave.!
 WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED!
 YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
We are open for your viewing seven days per 
week. PLEASE call H. M. HARRITY for YOUR 
appointment; anytime. DIAL 621 -4030. We'll 
see YOU at 'THE FAIRFAX" . . . Neighbor.
Get thatGreat UX Look,
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
 ft
NOAPPOINTMENTNECESSARYCNFCCniTIOItSPRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
Mon., Tu., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office

---------------------------------------------------

Carnival Supplement Page 7
vveepstakes 1984
Sir Athhu CSoCnSoCaA aCSA DhrylA yrehA. WSo3r 75O gharO Usd r3P,o aPu ASG
reei
CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
art Sports EditorSweepstakes 1984the year of the driver. eryone comes out on Friday and Saturday see the buggies and the push teams. No ne sees the drivers. But it was the driver suiting that took place the first week of l which won this race.When Pi Kappa Alpha saw little Audrey nfield come to CMU last September, had visions of championships in their pads. Between the fact that Greenfield has ree more years here and her extremely narbody, Pika decided to build a buggy )ecifically to fit Greenfields
easurements.
I was very excited when I found out,id Greenfield.The tailor-made buggy, Mach I, became la's top buggy. Saturday morning Mach 1 the 1984 Sweepstakes Mens Chamonship, beating Sigma Nus Lemur and s Vixen with a time of 2:09.5.That victory' completed a Pika sweep of competition, winning alumni and 
omens heats with the Bullet, driven by shman Kim Ciulla. The alumni crew set new record of 2:21.3.The push team from Kappa Alpha Theta rority led Pikas buggy to a narrow victory CIA with a time of 2:48.6. CIA, with 
ack Magic, finished at 2:49.0 One key to the womens race was Thetas isher Debbie Kovacs. Kovacs pushed for A last year, but when Theta added a team, ivacs made the switch that may have been difference in this years race. As hill two isher Beth Marcus put it, Victory is so reet!
The mens finals were threatened by thunderstorms. But normal Spring Carnival weather prevailed; the sun shone brightly.In the first finals heat, the Pika-B buggy 
Godzilla ran against Vixen of Beta-A. Vixen won the heat with a time of 2:15.01, good enough for third place. Pika-B lost ume in the chute when driver Carol Evans had to swerve to avoid the Beta buggy. Evans began a skid as she came around the chute, nosing near the hay bails, but recovered to stay in the race. Godzilla finished a 2:17.43 fifth place overall.In finals heat two, Pika-As Mach I posted the winning time of 2:09.5. CIA-As Black 
Magic finished fourth with a time of 2:15.95, despite passing all nine windows on the free roll.Heat three was preceded by five minutes of dancing inf front of Sigma Nus truck, with clapping and celebration running rampant. It was, as one observer said, Get psyched time.Sigma Nus Lemur, last years third place finisher and winner from two years back, rolled against Betas B buggy, Athena. Sigma Nu was well aware of the competition and just missed winning the race. 
Lemur rolled nine windows to easily beat Betas time of 2:18.00, which was good for sixth place. When Sigma Nu crossed the line, the clock read 2:09, and it was suddenly very quiet at the finish line. The question remained; 2:09 and what fraction? The timers got together and announced the time: 2:09.96, and Pika was the winner.Hill one pusher Scott Bear Saxton of Pika-A said of the Mach I, That buggys a beautiful thing to push. It feels great to
win. Greenfield said she had no problems. It ran better than yesterday.The womens heats began only after a ninety minute delay as a result of a heavy rainstorm that ended at 6:30 a.m. and gave way to sunshine.Heat one saw the Tri-Delt push team push Betas Echo to a 3:08 finish over SDC-B and Kappa Sig-A. Echo finished in fifth place overall.Heat two was won by CIA-B with Spectre. They finished with a time of 3:01.6 and
fourth place. PiLam-B finished second and Theta-Xi-A was third.In heat three, only the Fringes Benefit finished the race, as DU-A and KS-B were lost on the way.Heat four found the womens winner, Pika-A, along with PiLam-A, the sixth place winner at 3:08.8. Theta Xi-B finished in 3:21.0.In heat five the winner was CIA-A followed by SDC-A and Sigma Nu-A.
continued on page 8
m
 photo by Mike Pilewski
Kappa Alpha Theta's hill five pusher crosses the finish line with the winning women's 
time.
VACANCY
Student Government Treasurer
Petitions at 
Skibo Information 
Desk
Due 5:00 pm 
Tuesday, April 24
'c
All activities fee paying students are eligible
Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 Carnival Supplement
Mach I driven to victory by Greenfield
continued from page 7Then the men followed with the first part of their competition. In heat one, Sigma Nus ESP ran the course in 2:30.1, very fast for a D buggy. Beta-D finished second in 
Echo with a time of 2:36.27. Theta Xi-D was 
third.The second heat was the comic relief of the day. Pilam-C, in Miss Budweiser, finished with the second slowest time of the day at 2:59.25. This was surpassed only by SAEs 
Limo, pushed by five men in tuxedos and built with two-by-fours. The Limo finished in 3:21.82, to finish second and last in heat two.In heat three, SAE-D scratched, Phi-KapD was stepped on by a Beta pusher (Ron Orie) and stopped, and Beta-C was disqualified.Heat four brought a new leader with Theta Xis Vapor, their C buggy, with a time of 2:28.34. CIA-C and Dark Star finished at 2:33.91. DTD-C finished in 2:57.48 in the twelve year old Delta Queen.In heat five, Pika-D ran the fastest D run of the day at 2:28.97. Fringe-B finished in 2:34.20. Heat six saw Beta-B run the fourth best time of the day at 2:15.97. Hill five pusher Brad Sherwin ran what loked like the fastest hill five run of the day. SAE-A was disqualified according to reporters after finishing at 2:23.44. Sigma Nu-Cs Scorpion, driven by Laura Silvers, finished at 2:38.15, but also did not pass the brake test and was disqualified.ATOs Gander, driven by senior Randi Bograd, won heat seven with a time of 2:35.5, edging out CIA-D, who had a time of
2:38.65. Kappa Sig-C was awarded a re-roll after hitting ATOs Mariso Tavema on hill 
four.Theta Xis new B buggy, Rapier, ran a fast 2:19.84 and finished in eighth place, winning the eighth heat: Phi-Kaps A buggy Stiletto finished in 2:32.24, while 
Cyclone of DTD-B had a time of 2;38.87.In heat nine, Pika-C matched Rapiers time of 2:19.84 and tied for eighth place. The 
Bullet, which had already won the womens heat and would later win the alumni heat, defeated PiLam-A and SDC-B. Heat ten started the high class buggies, the favorites. Fringes Benefit won the heat with a time of 2:20.85, followed by CIA-Bs 2:26.24 in their new buggy, Spectre.
Heat eleven saw Kappa Sig and Sigma Nus B buggy, Colugo awarded a re-roll after much protest. Colugo spun out when its drivers head gear came over her eyes and she lost control of the buggy. Phi-Kap C won the heat by finishing.In heat 12, Pikas Godzilla posted the third fastest time at 2:14.27, easily defeating SAE-Bs Intrepid, which had'a 2:38.0 finish.Heat 13, the most exciting race of the day, saw Beta-As Vixen narrowly defeat Theta Xi-A. Beta had a time of 2:16.18, while Theta Xi finished in 2:17.88. Theta Xi-A would finish seventh overall, Beta-A sixth. SDC-A finished third in the heat with a respectable 2:25.76.In heat 14, CIA-A finished at 2:16.03 with 
Black Magic, blowing out ATOs Quarterhorse and the DU-B buggy. Black Magic finished fourth for the day. Heat 15 saw Pikas Mach I run a 2:10.6, easily better than
photo by Erik Horn
Pika's winning driver Audrey Greenfield is carried to celebration by a member ot the Pika 
fraternity.
Breakdancers win SDCys 
Gong Show competition
By MAURA SAVINI
Tartan StaffwriterThe ticking crew, a breakdancing team, Mike Osgood, and Joe Kuefler, took first, second, and third prizes, respectively, in the Gong Show Thursday night. The Gong Show, which was held in the tent, was emceed by Tom Auclair.Auclair gave the standing room only crowd the authority to demand gongs. 
The audience took advantage of this privi
lege to the point of abuse and demanded 
that the first four acts were ganged. One of 
the judges. Prof. Colette Wilkins of the
Beta's Dave Richards pushes the Vixen against Pika's B buggy, Godzilla.
any other time of the day, until heat 16, inwhich Sigma Nu-A ran 2:10.2 in the Lemur.this year s top sixIn the re-rolls, Kappa Sig-C was the onlybuggy to finish, with a time of 2:37.37.MENNAMEIB
Colugo was running what was reported to1. Pika-AMach I2:09,be the fastest run ever in buggy history2. Sigma-Nu-ALemur2:09before it spun out and nosed into the hay3. Beta-AVixen2:15bales in what was the worst accident of the4. CIA-ABlack Magic2:15sweepstakes. The driver was shaken up but5. Pika-BGodzilla2:11in good shape. Kappa Sig-A, sputtering to a6. Beta-BAthena2:18near standstill in the chute, was picked upand carried off.WOMENNAMETUWith buggies that roll nine windows,1. Pika-ABullet2:4Sigma Nu seems to have the best equip2. CJA-ABlack Magic2:4ment. Beta has the finest push teams. But3. Fringe-ABenefitPika has the best combination of technol4. QA-BSpectre31ogy, speed, strength, and three little women5. Beta-AEcho3Hnamed Audrey Greenfield, Carol Evans and6. PiLam-ALegend3,ftKim Ciulla, not to mention D buggy driverKeith Shrieve. It was the combination of allthese components that brought the chamALUMNI.NAME
2:2pionship to Pika in 1984.1. Pika-BBullet
Sweepstakes <84 was reported by Scott2. Beta-AEcho
mBozic, Janice Bullard, Lesley Frank,3. PiLam-ALegend
Duane Galbi, Andre Glenn, Dave Lafya-4. Kappa Sig-A2:43
tis, Christopher D. Lewis and Maura5. DTD-ACyclonem
Savini.6. CJA-ABlack Magic2:4(1
Music Dept., was usually the audiences bench-person, although Dean Waiters daughter, Katie, did in her share of performers, as well as gonging Auclair on the audiences vehement request.
Eight of the thirteen acts in the gong show were gonged, often undeservingly. Some 
of the gonged acts included an imitation of Abbott and Costellos Whos on First?, a rotating jazz band, an airband of The Dead Kennedys and an impromptu stand-up 
comedian. Osgood was gonged but the 
audience vetoed the gong and he was 
allowed to continue.
photo by Mike 1
Beta's Dorn Colangelo ends his race as Tom Frost shows the heat of the finishing1

---------------------------------------------------

CAMPUS COUPONS? WIN A fit) PIONEER* STEREO!
(P|!|NT products INC 482 SUNRISE HWY.. ROCKVILLE CENTRE. N Y. 11571
ECK(^) y0UR laLplr__set)s) of 1000 NAME & ADDRESS LABELS at $1.00 psr set plus 45c per
c-nfj ___set(s) of 500 BUFF CALLIGRAPHY LABELS at $2.99 per set plus 45c per
srt for postage & handling. 3
ln(a___set(s) of 500 M0N0GRAMMED LABELS at $1.99 per set plus 45c per setw 'e& handling. 2
arm .ust appear on all labels in each set. Send CASH, CHECK or MONEY ORDER. *o.04veks for shipment. U.S.A. ONLY (N.Y. State res. add sales tax.) Use plain paper 13 istructionsandorders.
( (P|!N Tproduo pctsIC 4s48cd2 TSso (stItdrC UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
X-1203
Save 25<t on new i erma Soft" Shampoo.
Softens permed hair without 
relaxing the curl.
MR. RE1'I terms of! paymen 52734-InI sented r< restrictedI spcifi1- OFFER
ILER: We will redeem this coupon, plus 8C handling when s offer have been complied with Dy you and the consumer. For mail coupon to Lamaur, Inc. P.O. Box 1651, Clinton, Iowa .ices proving purchase of sufficient stock to cover coupons pre;t be shown upon request. Void where prohibited, taxed or v law. Cash value 1/20. Redemption on other than product nstitutes fraud. Limit one coupon per item purchased. <PIRES OCTOBER 31, 1984.
3729224
7bl00 lDiatD
Save 25<t on new F rma Soft Conditioner.
f oftens penned hair without 
relaxing the curl.
MR. RE ILER: We will redeem this coupon, plus 8C handling when I terms of is offer have been complied with by you and the consumer. For Ipayir.er mail coupon to Lamaur, Inc. P.O. Box 1651, Clinton, Iowa I $2734. Ir. >ices proving purchase of sufficient stock to cover coupons presented n st be shown upon request. Void where prohibited, taxed or I restricted v law. Cash value 1/20C. Redemption on other than product I specified institutes fraud. Limit one coupon per item purchased.|OFFER KPIRES OCTOBER 31, 1984.
3729224
7blD0 101276
Kodak MP film... Kodaks professional motion picture (MP) film now adapted for still use in your 35mm camera! See the back of attached coupon and discover what this quality film can do for your photography.
i INTRODUCTORY OFFER !? Id like to try your leading Kodak MP film. Enclosed is $2.00. j Rush me 2 rolls of 20-exposure Kodak 5247.
Name_________________________
Address,
HyS,aA r,c WnSchA FyP3 aCh Ar3h yPnn
i
I City,j State
I Zip.
1 Mail to: Seattle FilmWorks j 500 3rd W., P.O. Box C-34056 j Seattle, WA 98124SEE OTHER SIDE ?
TIMEA DAY
The smartest and most economical way to follow 
the latest news from the worlds of:
EDUCATIONPOLITICSHEALTHMOVIES
SCIENCE
) 1983 Time Inc.
SAVE 74%
off TIMES $1.75 cover price with this special student rate of just 45$ an issue! (TIMES basic subscription rate is 89$ an issue.)
For fast service call this toll-FREE number:1-800-621-4800(In Illinois call 1-800-972-8302)Ask for TIME offer #T79950 Or mail this order form in today!
Ye*! Send meissues of TIME at theincredibly low student rate of 45C an issue. (Minimum order 26, maximum order 104.)I save 74% off the $1.75 cover price.(TIME'S basic subscription rate is 89C an issue.)? Payment enclosed ? Bill me later
Mr./Ms.
AddressApt No
City StateZip
Name of College or UniversityYear studies end
The basic subscription rate good in U S only Where no term is indicated, the minimum will be served. Orders for less than the minimum term are not acceptable If less than the proper amount is sent, the number of issues will be prorated at the per-copy rate indicated. Rate good in U S only Rates include postage 
TCB15B
uni!
Campus Coupons will send a lucky winner a Pioneer Two-Way Component Stereo 
System. Pioneers Two-Way Components are high fidelity systems, yet they can oper
ate on either AC or DC power. See contest rules and entry blank on reverse side.
:ssHA*7* A DAY
To order SI call81 >0-621-4800
(In Illinois call i 
1-800-972-8302) 
j i sk for SI offer #S79972
Or mail to:
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED 541 North Fairbanks Court Chicago, Illinois 60611
Se. SPECIAL STUDENT OFFER 
on other side.
aP it TP5y HhyAP,rnSwhc U S3hyr Wayru vPcrD
Strong
Secure
Convenient
See Reverse Side For Details
GREGMATLSATMCATDATPMpllrlt*#* Your true abilities, even your GPA,r ; : may be meaningless if you areVilli uniami,iarwithr"freezeupV/CUI CALvl during your admission examUnfortunately. ytj>ur undergraduate training alone may not adequately prepare youjThats where GAPS comes in. Test strategy and content orientation can make the difference. Hours of lectures on cassette tapes, hundreds of pages of corresponding lecture notes and practice exams provide the preparation youll need. Wk ' M WMe no one can guarantee you a specificscore, GAPS has a MONEY BACK IGUARANTEE for your complete satisfaction. I
FOR COURSE LIST, PRICES OR TO REQUEST 
MORE INFORMATION, SEE REVERSE SIDE!
Name
Address
PLEASE PRINT
NO PO BOXES PLEASE924City/StateZip
Your exam dateSchool Your phone no (_)
+Course Cost* Postage/Handling** Total Enclosed
For bank card orders, call toll free 1-800-426-2836 (8:30-4:30 PST)
'Washington Residents add 7.9% sales taxPostage/Handling: $7 regular (2 weeks) or $14 Rush Air Delivery No MCATs or $21 Rush Air MCATs (4 to 5 days)
|osR I4E HWYWpW|W. OKK VLtcR Y1oW 5W. 74x C-19K39. |odIIro. 5Y 981K9
MANUFACTURER COUPON
Save $1.00 on the 
Schick Super I 
Pivoting OR Twin Blade 
Razor System
Choose the closest shaves you can 
get! The Schick Super I Pivoting 
Razor with pivoting action, or the 
Super I Twin Blade Razor, each with 
two Twin Super Chromium 
cartridges.
DOUBLE SHAVING SAVINGS!
TEXPIRES 12/31/84rSAVE s1.0onSchick Super I Pivoting OR Twin Blade Razor systems
33-269-CC 
~~| MANUFACTURER COUPON
330G 112253
, EXPIRES 12/31/84
Save $1.00 on the 
beautiful razor 
you dont have to 
throw away, 
put away or hide away. 
Personal Touch 
from Schick.
AVE $1.0C
on
THE BEAUTIFUL WAY TO ASILKY-SMOOTH SHAVE
TORTOISE SHELL DESIGN RAZOR, REFILLS, AND TRAVEL CASE.
(Personal HxyucH 
Razor The Cosmetic Shave"
33G0 115635
40-158-C

---------------------------------------------------

New Perma Soft!
The first shampoo & conditioner just for permed hair.
Save 25C on  , new Perma Soft
Save 25<C
new Perma Soft 
Conditioner.
Softens without relaxing the curl.
Shampoo and condition your permed hair as often as you like with new Perma Soft Shampoo & Conditioner specially formulated to add softness and shine without relaxing permed-in curl.
A ikA D 1C t \ Jf # Warning: These coupons are coded and serially number*,i  mv\ I I 4 i f |  | | | Any misuse can lead to federal prosecution.
1
I
I
L.
INCREDIBLE 35mm COLOR! 
INCREDIBLE SAVINGS!Heres your chance to use the film Hollywoods top filmmakers use in their multi-million-dollar productions... now adapted for use in your 35mm camera by Seattle FilmWorka And at a cost less than youre used to paying for film Enjoy micro-fine gain and rich color saturation. Shoot in bright or low light. And GET PRINTS OR SLIDES OR BOTH from the same roll. Dont miss your chance to be shooting this incredible film. We can only make you this great offer because were confident youll become a regular customer once youve tried it. Fill out the coupon and mail today to the address indicated on otherSide, Kodak 5247 is a registered trademarkof the Eastman Kodak Company. 61983 Seattle FilmWorks
FATLESSTHAN
A DAY
To order call toll-free:
1-800-621-4800
(In Illinois call 1-800-972-8302)
Ask FPy TIME PFFhy #T79950
Or mail to:
TIME541 North Fairbanks Court Chicago, Illinois 60611
See SPECIAL STUDENT OFFER
on other side.
1000 NAME & ADDRESS LABELS with ZIP CODE
JUST WET & STICK! identify everything at a glance!
500
Caiiup-phy Labeis
ii8 ------------
Springfield, 61823
Decorate your correspondence to add a distinctive tough to anything you want to identify. Your name & address are artistically done in calligraphy & custom printed on fine quality buff paper. Easy & convenient size is 2% * x \
500
jllONOGRAMMEDLABELS
The Smith Family 100 Waterview PI. Freeport, NY 11520
only JUST WET & STICK! Your v*ry m6 nn monogram is imprinted or. theshandsome name & addres labels 1 Easy & convenient size is 2 x Vr
Win a
GD PIONEER
Two-Way Component!
All free from Campus Coupons and 
Pioneer Electronics USA Inc.
I Enter and win a fl PIONER Two-Way Component!
. State.
I
Mail to: Campus Sweepstakes, P.O. Box 121, Emerson, N.J. 07630
Name__
Address. 
City____
School_________________
Summer Phone (___).
.W ar n
School Phone (____).
Contest Rules:1. To enter the Campus Sweepstakes, print your name, address, colleg phone ansa: the entry form.2. Mail your entry to: Campus Sweepstakes, PO. Box 121, Emerson. J, 0 entry per person. All entries must be received by May 31,1984.3. A winner will be selected by a random drawing and the chance of win determined by the number of entries received.A. Winner of the Pioneer Two-Way Component must be 18 years of at or olt entering must be enrolled full time in the college they list on the entry orm.5. This Sweepstakes is not open to employees and their immediate milies ol Ca Coupons, Pioneer Electronics, their agencies, advertising agency, or lr ographers6. Federal, state and local taxes are the sole responsibility of the v<: er Sweeps void where prohibited or restricted by law. All federal, state and local n jjlations appt purchase necessary.7. The decision of the judges is final.
et St:
r
ii
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
iL
? YES, Im interested, please send me the complete preparationcourse checked fcelnw.? Please send me more information.
GRE ? $149.00(Verbal, Quantitative, Analytical) 11 hours of lecture tapes 351 pages of written material
GMAT ? $179.00(Verbal, Quantitative) 13 hours of lecture tapes 305 pages of written material
LSAT ? $159.00(Logic and Writing Sample) 9 hours of lecture tapes 180 pages of written material
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: li you are not satisfied, return your course within 10 days for a full refund.
MCAT ? $350.00(Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Reading Comprehension, Quantitative Analysis and Interview Preparaton.) 38 hours of lecture tapes 1079 pages of written material
DAT ? $280.00(Chemistry, Biology, Math Skills, Perceptual Motor Ability Test plus Reading Comprehension and Interview Preparation) 30 hours of lecture tapes 1221 pages of written material
SAVE51.00onSchick4 Super! Pivoting OR Twin Blade Razor Systems
m
SAVE s1.00oncPersonalcTouch Razor The Cosmetic Shave
TO THE DEALER: You are authorized to act as our agent for redemption of this coupon We will reimburse you for the face value of this coupon or. rf coupon calls for free merchandise, we wilt reimburse you for such free goods plus 8c handling, provided that you and the consumer have complied with the terms of our coupon offer Void where prohibited taxed or restricted by law Good only m U S A and U S Military bases overseas. Cash value 1/20 of \c The O*consumer must pay any sales tax FRAUD ,CLAUSE: Any other application constitutes fraud Invoices proving purchase within the last 90 days of sufficient stock to cover .coupons presented for redemption, must be Omade available upon request Offer Hmited to Oone coupon per specified product and size Mail coupons to WARNER-LAMBERT COMPANY PO BOX 1737 CLINTON IA 52734
3729224
33800 112553
TO THE DEALER: You are authorized to act *as our agent for redemption of this coupon 1We #1 reimburse you for the face value of this coupon or if coupon calls for free Imerchandise we will reimburse you for such *free goods plus 8c handling provided that Iyou and the consumer have compiled with 9the terms of our coupon otter Void where iprohibited taned or restricted Dy law Good i only mlJSA and U S Military bases Ioverseas Cash value 1/20 of 1c The Iconsumer must pay any sales Uu FRAUD iCLAUSE: Any other applicaiton constitutes ^ | fraud Invoices proving purchase wthm the O | last 90 day* of sufficient stock to cover _ I ' for redemption must be gj limned to , Imad?*S upo
Sports MwtratBdat 7C adnr
CATCH ALL THE COLOR & ACTION OF SPORTS.
 1983 Time Inc. TCB15B
SAVE 771
off Sis $1.95 cover price with lis special student rate of just 45$ ar issue! (Sis basic subscription rate is 890 < i issue.
For fast service call this toll-FREE sumber:1-800-621-41MX(In Illinois call 1-800-972-83C )Ask for TIME offer #S7997i Or mail this order form in tod y!
Yes! Send me____________issues of SI at
the incredibly low student rate of 45$ i issue. 
(Minimum order 26, maximum order 14.)
I save 77% off the $1.95 cover price.
(Sis basic subscription rate is 89<t an ^sue.) 
? Payment enclosed ? Bill me later
Mr./Ms.
State
tudies
HMHCamera Strap
The strong 1V2" thick webbed strap fastens securely, offers hands-free traveling and
keeps the camera ready to take that 
great shot. Adjustable length.
It permanently 
directly Into+ $1.00 postage and handling
Name of College or University YeThe basic subscription rate good in U.S. only Where no terrr minimum will be served Orders for less than the minim.; >w" ji acceptable. If less than the proper amount is sent, the numbe at issue prorated at the per copy rate indicated. Rate good in U.S. on Hais postage.
Heres How To Ore rPlease weave In the following name
Color ? Red/White/Blue ? Black/White/--old Send this Coupon along with $7.95 + $1.00 postage/handling to:
UNISTRAP P.O. Box 319 Emerson, NJ 0?
(Please Print)
Name.
Address.
City..State.
Allow 4 to 6 weeks for delivery. Wisconsin residents add 5 sa
ZIP-lesto*
