Voi 1010000, Number * Hacker Haven April 1, 1986
Kathleen Turner bares all...............................................................pg. 18 ^ 1
Penguin lust runs rampant on campus...............................................pg. 17
The Natrm
Not only is Doc Cyrat expanding office hours but he 
is also becoming more visible on campus.Morewood Burned!
Although some courses will have pre
requisites, AgEs wont be saddled with the 
chore curriculum found in other majors. Most 
students see this as a big plus to the program. 
I want to get right out on the Cut and start 
spreading that sh~. I dont want to have to waste 
time learning about the Boringness of the 
Modern World or the Tragedies of Writing. 
said one potential student for the new program. 
Another student explained her reason for 
becoming an AgE: What other major at 
Carnegie Mellon allows you to get a tan while 
earning credit at the same time? she asked.
When asked what prompted the addition of 
this program. Kale replied, One of the primary 
concerns of the Administration is the upkeep 
of the grounds at Carnegie Mellon. By im
plementing an Agricultural Engineering pro
gram, we see the potential of hiring our own 
graduates to work on the campus landscape.
Students who wish to switch from their pre
sent majors to Agricultural Engineering should 
make an appointment to see Dean Kale as soon 
as possible. There is also the possibility of sum
mer courses for those students who are 
interested.
By Smell E. Cut
Natrat Stuffwriter
The Administration of Carnegie-Mellon 
University announced its most recent expansion 
as the Professional Choice at a press con
ference last week. CIT, in conjunction with the 
Department of Physical Plant, will offer a new 
major entitled Agricultural Engineering, 
beginning in the Fall of 1986.
The new progam, Robot Kale, Dean of CIT, 
said will give students who love to relax on the 
Cut yet also want the challenges of modern 
technology an opportunity to combine their in
terests. The program has wonderful 
possibilities.
While a definite curriculum has not yet been 
developed, Kale said that the key point of the 
program is its labs, which will be taught on the 
Cut. We anticipate a great demand for the 
courses Experimental Techniques in the Place
ment of Watering Devices' and Advanced Prin
ciples of Manure Spreading said Kale, sug
gesting that students hurry to these registration 
lines first. But dont forget: Advanced Prin
ciples has the pre-requisites Synthesis of 
Manure' and Decomp I, warned Kale.
By Doris Sheepfetish
Natrat Stuffwriter
Tragedy struck early this morning, when 
Morewood Gardens burned to the ground. At 
4:57 am alarms went off in A,B,C, and D 
towers, awakening residents. Approximately 
31% of the residents made it outside safely, 
40% sought shelter in E-tower, and the remain
ing 29% rolled over, mumbled Oh, fuck. 
Nother false alarm, and went back to sleep. 
Of those 29% who chose to remain in their 
rooms, 18% suffered 2nd and 3rd degree 
burns, 7% were charred beyond recognition, 
and 4% were fried to a deep golden brown, still 
juicy on the inside.
Residents of E-tower set a new record when 
the entire 6th and 7th floors simultaneously put 
their speakers in the window and played Bur
ning Down the House4, with the exception of 
one obviously confused 6th floor resident who 
accidently played Jerry Garcia and the Norman 
Luboff Choir present the Best of Norwegian 
BluegraSs Trucking Songs.
3-E RA Arnie Boozer said Man, I hate these 
things! Lemme tell ya, you get these damn 
alarms goin off at 4 in the morning, and the 
next thing you know our hallway is swamped 
with dames! I mean, Jesus! Girls runnin around 
in bunny slippers and nightgowns...real short 
nightgowns, and, uh, lace and satin with...um, 
with low cut, um...ahh, scuse me please.... 
Boozer was not available for further comment 
after one resident scuffed him for leaving pud
dles of drool in the hallway.
A definite cause of the fire is not known. 
However, Pgh. Fire Marshall D.P. Patukas 
released a statement later in the day that his 
best guess was A candle knocked over, set
ting fire to a typewriter somewhere in C-tower.
The resident then probably tried to put out the 
fire by smashing the typewriter with her Cab
bage Patch doll. This only succeeded in feeding 
the fire, which quickly spread to a garbage can 
in D-tower, about the same time as a dryer in 
the A-tower basement exploded. Residents on 
the 4th floor of A-tower, angry that their clothes 
wouldnt get dry after all, made bomb threats 
to vending and occupied the housing office un
til their demands (having RAs do the floors 
laundry every Monday) could be met. While in 
the housing office, the students went on a binge 
setting fire to damage records for the current 
year after soaking them in a bottle of vodka 
found hidden in Tony Martinis file cabinet 
behind a stack of Cosmopolitans. Needless to 
say, these students were the first to get fried. 
But hell, I say good riddance! Im sick and 
damn tired of these crazy college kids calling 
in false alarms at every gawdawful hour of the 
night...Frankly, Im glad the little imps got burn
ed! A hearing is pending for Marshall Patukas, 
after psychiatric evaluations are completed.
Until further arrangements are made. Presi
dent Cyrat requests that all students left 
homeless by the fire please transfer to Pitt for 
the remainder of the semester. Warner Hall 
apologizes for any inconvenience to the 
students, and promises hassle-free credit 
transfer. *
*Credit transfer applicable to all disciplines 
except the following: art, music, drama, English, 
history, business, psychology, any other courses 
that require purchase of a text and assign 
readings therein, chemistry, physics, biology, 
engineering, computer science, statistics, and any 
other courses that use the letter x and lots of big 
educations no one really understands.
CIT Announces New Major: 
Agricultural Engineering

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The NatratApril 1, 1986
Roommate Survival Guide is maled to freshwomen
By Mortimer Smith
Natrat Stuffwriter
The Housing Office recently announced a 
new mailing to be included with materials sent 
to incoming freshman. Hebe Stalling, director 
of Housing, called the new information A 
Roommate Survival Guide.
We believe the new material will eliminate 
some of the roommate problems students have 
had in the past, said Stalling. Sometimes a 
roomate doesnt realize that coming in at four 
in the morning with 20 of his/her closest friends 
and announcing to his/her sleeping rommate 
who has an econ exam the next morning that 
he/she is having a small party can be a problem. 
We just want to remind students of these notso-obvious difficulties that may come up.
Topics include how to anonymously short a 
radio when your roommates favorite song 
Banging Garbage Can Lids becomes too 
loud, how to borrow your roommates clothes
without telling him/her, and the ten most com
mon places where laundry tokens may be 
hidden.The guide also has a section with helpful hints 
at getting the most out of a roommate. Writers 
suggest eating your pizza on your roommates 
bed to avoid getting tomatoe sauce stains on
Z'
your comforter. From the female perspective, 
the guide discourages machine washing and 
drying that silk blouse you borrowed without 
telling your roommate. When roomates seem 
to be taking forever in the bathroom, set off the 
fire alarm and when your roommate comes run
ning out, you can run in. Authors do however
Suggestion -135 
Remember, this is only to be used as last resort
say this suggestion may not prove as effective 
in Morewood Gardens.
Other helpful suggestions include dealing with 
a roommates parents. Experts say that whe 
a roommates parents call at 8 am Sunday mor
ning, its often a good idea not to tell them that 
their son or daughter passed out at 3 am on 
the floor of a fraternity house and still is not 
back.
Perhaps the most helpful chapter of all 
the one talking about what to do if you and your 
roommate just have completely conflicting per
sonalities and lifestyles. These problems can be 
solved with creativity and imagination, said 
Stalling with a mysterious grin.
Aside from helping students deal with these 
problems, the housing office hopes the guide 
will eliminate extra work for them. These 
fighting roommate stories do get so boring, 
said Bertha Dorkey, a secretary in the officeRev. Falwell is named Khomeinis successor
By Garbled Volumes
Natrat Stuffwriter
In a surprise development, on March 30th, 
a peace agreement was signed between Iran and 
Iraq. An official release from Irans ruler, the 
Ayattolah Khomeini, stated he was sorry for all 
the problems he had been causing and that he 
had decided to end the war. He was quoted as 
saying, I think we've all had enough of this 
Holy War bullshit! Khomeini then announc
ed he was thinking of converting Iran into a Fundamentalist Baptist nation and appointing the 
Rev. Jerry Falwell as his successor.
Khomeini also announced his intentions of 
having a meeting with Iraqs President Hussein. 
Despite the tensions that have built up between 
the two men during the six-year war, Hussein 
was delighted at the idea of getting to meet Kho
meini and as Hussein stated getting to meet 
the tender, caring side of the Ayattolah. About 
the proposed switch to Fundamentalism, Hus
sein felt it was a good idea. I think the Middle
Aquino really wants Ferdie
By Garbled Volumes
Natrat Stuffwriter
The Philippines new President, Corazon 
Aquino, announced on March 29th that she was 
sorry she had brought about the ousting of 
President Ferdinand Marcos and asked him if 
he wanted to return to the Philippines. She 
stated she felt she had been too rash about con
demning Marcos as a tryant. When questioned 
about Marcoss corruption during the recent 
Presidential election, in which some 50 people 
were killed, and also about Imelda Marcoss 
shoe collection, Aquino said reports had been 
overblown.
Sure there were a few deaths here and there 
on Election Day, Aquino said, but should we 
really blame Ferdie? Hes just a sick, old man 
whod never hurt a fly. About Imelda Marcoss 
5000 pairs of shoes, she said I think the 
number is closer to 3,000, a much more 
reasonable number. Aquino explained her 
change of heart as being a realization that be
ing President wasnt all that easy. She suggested 
that Marcos be given the position of Secretary 
of the Treasury in her government.
In Hawaii, Marcos said he was delighted with 
Aquinos request, but indicated he would pro
bably turn it down. As long as Imelda and I 
can keep a few hundred million, we can live 
comfortably in a small mansion. Marcos also in
dicated he was interested in running for the 
Governorship of Hawaii if he was given U.S. citizenship.
Baby Doc 
Buys Marseilles
By Garbled V olumes
Natrat Stuffwriter
Deposed Haitian President Bady Doc 
Duvalier, now living on the Riviera in Southern 
France, announced on March 29th, his inten
tions of buying Marseilles. We had a few hun
dred million sitting around, Duvalier stated, 
so I thought Id give the ruling thing another 
try in Marseilles. Duvalier wants to give the 
French goemment $900 million for the city and 
then appoint himself mayor.
The people of Marseilles were somewhat oppossed to the deal, but President Mitterand of 
France thought it might be a good idea. Thats 
a lot of money to pass up, Mitterand said, and 
Duvalier isn't as bad a leader as everyone
Reagan to Give A-Bombs to Contras
By Garbled Volumes
Natrat Stuffwriter
Because of the enormous controversy created 
by his $100 million aid plan to the Nicaraguan 
contras, President Reagan proposed a new plan, 
whereby the Contras would receive all unused 
U.S. nuclear weapons. I think its a great 
idea, Reagan said, the contras get some real 
aid and they can finally wipe those Commie 
bastards out of Central America for good! 
Reagan also stated, That tortilla-brained 
Ortega wont know what hit him.
In response, Nicaragua's President, Daniel 
Ortega launched a new attack into Honduras, 
El Salvador and Panama, and also announced 
his plans to make a trip to Moscow in mid-April. 
The contra leaders were somewhat surprised by
Reagans proposed aid plan, stating they would 
certainly accept a few nuclear missiles, but they 
would much rather have the cash. One official 
said, A nuclear missile might be somewhat 
rash for a country like Nicaragua, but were will
ing to give anything a try.
The leading opponent of Reagans Si00 
million aid plan, Speaker of the House, Tip 
ONeill, seemed more supportive of Reagans 
newest proposal. It seems like a good way of 
getting rid of our extra missiles and since Im 
leaving the House in a few months, who gives 
a shit! If the $100 million aid plan is not pass
ed, Reagan plans to put his new proposal 
through Congress in mid-April. I hope we can 
get this Nicaraguan thing cleared up by June, 
Reagan said, wouldnt it be dandy if they were 
overthrown by July 4th.
East could use a strong ideological leader like 
Jerry Falwell, said Hussein.
Both Iraqi and Iranian troops were jubilant 
over the ending of the war. One Iranian troop, 
a member of the 8th Crack Minesweeping Corp, 
stated he was happy the war was over and was 
looking forward to the fieldtrip to Disneyland 
his officers had planned for the Corp. Most Iraqi 
troops said they were sorry they had killed so 
many Iranians, but at the time it seemed like 
a good thing to do.
You expected a map here?
Forget it!
Were tired of coddling You
Look it up yourself.
makes out. I mean, he managed to lead almost 
100 people here and keep them living comfor
tably. Duvalier said if he did okay in 
Marseilles, he might consider buying some other 
French cities or possibly even some Caribbean 
islands. I guess I just have leadership in my 
blood, Duvalier said, and the money too.
U.S. and Soviet officials were both surprised 
about the sudden change in heart between the 
two countries. Secretary of State George Schultz 
was quoted as saying Shit, we thought theyd 
blow each other to hell before they stopped 
fighting. Khomeini was reported as having call
ed Rev. Falwell on the evening of the 30th and 
wished him a Happy Easter. Falwell was 
delighted and stated Khomeini is one of the 
outstanding and most progressive rulers in the 
Mid-East. I just think hes great!
. -
Khadafy Spoils 
Reagans Beans
By Garbled Volumes
Natrat Stuffwriter
Spurred on by his recent overwhelming 
victories in the Gulf of Sidra, Libyan President 
Moammar Khadafy extended his Line of 
Death to the Straits of Gibraltar. The narrow 
channel between Spain and Morocco is the 
gateway from the Mediterranean to the Atlantic.
As two of Libyas remaining four patrol boats 
took up positions in the thirty mile wide straits, 
ships of the U.S. Fleet, which had been on a 
peaceful exercise in the area, headed for safe
ty in the French port of Marseilles. One U.S. 
official said the Navy did not want to take any 
more chances with the Libyan forces and plann
ed to stay in Marseilles until either the Libyans 
sink themselves or run out of fuel.
President Reagan had to cut short an Easter 
party the Reagans were having at their Califor
nia ranch to fly back to Washington for discus
sions on the situation. White House aides said 
Reagan was outraged at Khadafy. The Presi
dent was quoted as saying Nancy had just 
given me 10 pounds of mixed jelly beans and 
then Khadafy pulls this . . . what a shithead
CORRECTIONS
In our last issue we accidently reported 
that Pgh had denied C-MU the buggy per
mit. This was a falsehood.
CMUPOLY - Tuition increase is now 
$1500
We misquoted the new (now old) Madon
na Album - Sorry!
ACNE should have been deleted.
Yo, dudes and dudettes!
In case you havent noticed by now, Natrat is not for real (never 
mind the fact youre holding it in your hands). Tis April Fools 
Day and were just having some fun (at 6:30 am? With 
AWOL?????) and hope those of you who feel slighted will take 
it in jest. Have fun!

---------------------------------------------------

Ambiguity
By now everyone has surely heard aobut Carnegie 
Millions $200 million capital campaign which will 
begin with the Melon Pollute Melon gala event. 
We all know that the first new facility which C-MU 
plans to build is a Skibo expansion which will be com
pletely filled by an extension of the gray matter which 
is curently found in the upper level of Skibo.
The Natrat editorial board stands behind the adminstration 110% in its capital campaign, but it 
seems to us that the minds behind this campaign have 
over-looked the most obvious means fo reaching the 
ultimate goal of $200 million, that is mortgage the 
university to IBM. Why not? Im sure the guys at 
IBM wouldnt mind floating us a couple hundred 
million with a relatively low interest rate, and both 
parties would benefit.
The first change made would probably result in 
the demise of CFA. Which would consequently bring 
about a complete break between Carnegie Mellon and 
the world of trendy fashion. Once this break took 
place, it would only be a matter of time until IBM 
was able to impose its standards of conservative dress 
on the remainder of the campus. Whether this change 
would indeed be beneficial is a debatable point. The 
only possible source of CFA students left on cam
pus would be the Art & Technology Center, which 
could become the*central nervous system for a black 
market in vintage clothes, and perhaps an entire 
underground culture which could thrive and grow 
to a point where the university might again be able 
to dress hip.
The next most obvious development would be for 
IBM to move its executives into Warner Hall where 
they could govern the corporation as well as the 
university. Oh....never mind. Its already been done.
Well I guess that just makes this whole editorial 
pretty moot. OK. So maybe it wasnt such a good 
idea in the first place. Big deal. Maybe I couldnt 
think of anything else. Did you ever think of that? 
Maybe there just wasnt anything worth picking on 
this week. I mean, the weathers been nice and things 
arent going so badly....
But now I have a hard time explaining the editorial 
cartoon. It wouldnt be so bad if the fish didnt specify 
that this was the IBM fish eating the C-MU fish. 
Because if they didnt have IBM and C-MU written 
right on them, I could say that the cartoon represents 
the futility of existence: the predatory nature of life 
itself. I could have even extracted an ecological com
ment about the food chain which is a daily fact in 
nature. Maybe I could have picked on UDS then. 
Never mind. Its moot anyway. But it is a nice car
toon, you have to admit. As far as cartoon fish go,
I think these are pretty damn good. So forget it. I 
make no apologies for the editorial cartoon. I think 
it stands on its own aesthetic merit.
As for the editorial itself....Hey, thats the way it 
goes sometimes. No one reads these wishy-washy 
things anyway.
**
**
*
*
**
***
****
*
***
?*
**
*
*
?*
*
*
?**
*
*
**
*
**
**
**
***
**
***
*
*
**
The Natrat
Yvel Missin Divad
Natrat Official Pain in the Ass
Floosey McLoonv
Chief of Irresponsibilty
Overt Papitationsky
Commie Rat
Wakemewhenyour Ready
News Editor
AWOL
Spuds Editor
AWOL
Procrastination Manager
John Andy C. Friedmann
Head Capitalist Pig
AWOL Bruised Casserole
Fertilizing Editor Fluff Editor
The Noze \lieky McHuh
Hit Man Embellishment Editor
AWOL AWOL
Capitalist Piglet Alphabet Souperintendent
A WOL is a pretty busy fellow, isnt he?
The Bullshit appearing at the beginning of the 
Ambiguity section is the official opinion of The 
Natrat ambiguity board. Columns are the opi
nions of individual authors who are not 
necessarily, but probably are, on The Natrat Am
biguity Board or Staff. Letters to the Chief are 
opinions of individual authors who are accidently 
members of the C-MU concentration camp. A let
ter intended for publication must be signed in 
blood and include the writers address, phone 
number, dimensions and sexual preference for 
verification and exploitation. Names will be 
published without reservation. The Natrat 
relishes the right to slice, dice, chop, core, or 
chuck any letter we feel is in good taste.
Slanderight  1986 by The Natrat. The Am
biguity Board reserves the right to exploit in 
publication any copy it deems fit in order to 
get the alighty buck, amen and goodnight. 
Still want to talk to us?
Office: Skibo 50. (412) 268-2111.
Mailing address: The Natrat
Carnegie-Mellon University 
Box 17
Piggsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
This has been bogusly brought to you by us 
and nobody else. All rights reserved (in case 
we get sued by the people who really pay for 
this massively malicious malarky).
**
***
**
*
**
**
*
*
**
**
*
*
*
**
*
***
?*
*
**
*
***
*
***
**
*
**
*
*
?**
**
***
??????????????????????????????????????????????????
Letters:Reader Offended
Editor:I am offended and appalled by the 
recent Natrat comics and editorial 
columns. I am shocked by the ap
parent relish with which the Natrat 
allows individuals to express opi
nions contrary to my own. Hey, I pay 
my tuition here like everyone lese at 
this school; it seems to me that I 
ought to be able to read my own 
campus newspaper without being of
fended and accosted by this 
disgusting display of differing points 
of view. How dare the editors of the 
Natrat give other people a forum for 
their ideas and observations in the 
comics and opinion sections! Is that 
the purpose of a college newspaper, 
I ask you, to propagate the free ex
change of ideas? I think the answer 
is obvious, my friends.
It is just this sort of uncensored,
offensive, liberal open-mindedness 
that threatens the very foundations 
of life as it is in America. Until the 
Natrat publishes material which is 
consistent with my opinion, I will 
continue to read it and be offended 
by every word of it.
Leonid Vladimir Andreyovich 
Senior 
Public Policy
Molestor
Editor:
I would like to congratulate the 
Natrat on the comics section. I have 
enjoyed reading all of the strips (par
ticularly Nabil Liumangs) and have 
also gotten some good ideas from 
these comics. Its great to know there 
are other people like me out there.
As for the people who are ap
parently offended by the Natrat 
comics: Come on...Lighten up! Dont 
you people know what fun is?!
Chester the Molestor 
Hustler MagazineReaderResponds
Editor:
As a group we are offended by 
many of the attitudes at this school. 
No one pays attention to anything 
around here. Protest is a serious 
issue which deserves all of our support, but so far it has been ridiculed 
by students , snubbed by the 
trustees and only given lip service by 
the administration.
Our organization takes the time to 
compile literature on the issue of 
protest, hoping to heighten the cam
pus awareness of the importance of 
protest. We even staged a 
demonstration which all of our 
members attended. We were both 
out on the cut all day protesting.
But where was the Natrat? I put 
this question to the Natrat editor, 
who claims to have mistaken us for 
the two members of another campus 
group which also never gets any 
Natrat coverage. A likely excuse. We 
all know that the editor is a 
republican puppet, and until we 
have a revolution and overthrow the 
current editor, the students at 
Carnegie-Mellon will never protest 
against anything except protest. So 
protestors unite!
Students for protest
Editor's note: I think certain members 
of the Greek system should be con
gratulated on their amazing display 
of water balloon technology. It is 
always envigorating to see the ex
cellence of C-MUs technical pro
grams being put to practical, tangi
ble use. All those physics classes sure
pay off sometimes.
The gazorching incident restored an 
elemend of faith in me, personally. 
Here I was thinking that those frat 
brothers were just immature, childish, 
beer-drinking do-nothings. But when 
they let those water balloons fly, let 
me tell you, I realized what truly 
outstanding contributions these in
dividuals make to the campus com
munity. Nice work guys. I think we 
were all impressed by that searing 
social commentary.Offended
Editor:
I am deeply offended by all the 
coverage you have given in The 
Natrat to the fund-raising drive to 
Bust MS. As an ardent feminist. 
I consider Ms. to be one of my 
favorite magazines, and I am 
disgusted that a responsible 
newspaper like yours would lend *ts 
support to a campaign to suppress 
that fine publication.
Ima Idiola 
Freshman 
Who knows?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The NatratApril 1, 1986
Natrat evaluates Scotch Guard
By Doris Sheepfetish
Natrat Stuffwriter
After heated deliberation last week, Scotland 
Yard was again denied a liquor license. Dean 
of Student Affairs Blazing Alters said Ahh, 
fuck em. They dont need alcohol. Thats what 
we keep the frats around for. Cliff Scruples, 
president of Scotland Yard, replied Ahh, fuck 
him. We dont need his jurisdiction - this is col
lege, we can do whatever we want. And do 
they did - on Friday Scotland Yard proudly 
presented a new expanded menu. At an 
unadvertised 4-for-l happy hour, the pub 
unveiled its complete line of alcoholic 
beverages. Natrat staffwriters fought their way 
to the bar (in the name of quality investigative 
reporting) to sample but a few of the offerings. 
(We would have tried more, but Editor-in-Chief 
Lisa McLoony came after us and threw us back 
in the Skibo dungeon to get this issue out on 
time.) McLoony was however kind enough to 
forsake her editorial duties and stay at Scotland 
Yard all night (planted firmly under the 3rd 
stool on the left) to complete our review. (Please 
see accompanying story, Natrat Editor-in-Chief 
dies Saturday in mysterious freak typesetting ac
cident) But heres what we and our dear 
departed editor (may she rest in pieces) 
discovered at Scotland Yard:
We began our night with a healthy round of 
Carnegie Mellon Corn Mash (served with plaid 
swizzle sticks). While not unlike chugging the 
contents of a Sears Die-Hard, this drink has the 
added attraction of instilling in one a deeprooted sense of school spirit, pride, loyalty, and 
an overwhelming urge to sing Hail to Thee, 
Carnegie. Never mind that no one knows the 
words - legend has it that the song was originally 
sans vocals anyway, written in 5-part harmony 
(4 kazoos and a Fox terminal stuck on 
control-G).
For our next round we settled on the Cyrat
Screwdriver, named in honor of C-MUs 
notorious Prez, Dicky Cyrat. The formula for 
the Screwdriver is known only to Scotland Yard 
bartenders: however, we found one slimy 
enough to share the secret for an undisclosed 
sum of money and a promise that his name 
(Jack Williams) would not appear anywhere in 
this article. As it turns out, the Cyrat screw is 
nothing more than one part vodka to three parts 
orange juice - the secret is in the mixing. Says 
the bartender (who is an active member of ATO 
and claims this is where he learned the trick) 
the contents of the drink are mixed not in the 
conventional shaker but rather in a used pro
phylactic! Nothing like CMUs academic innova
tion for you - take that to Warner Hall and pa
tent it!
And speaking of ingenuity, heres another nif
ty little eye-opener we happened upon (point 
of interest: Natrat entertainment editor Bruis
ed Ego allegedly happened all over campus 
later that night): the Yall Hateme Daquiri. The 
bartender mixes 1 1/2 oz. rum, 1 tsp. of 
powdered sugar, the juice of one lime, and 
strains it through one of the four pairs of Yall 
Hatemes jockey shorts known to be in ex
istence. The concoction is then poured into a 
cocktail glass, and the bartender brings it over 
to you, tells you what a total and complete 
moronic asshole you are and how you cant 
write for shit and what a rag the Natrat is, and 
then pours the daquiri down your pants while 
jumping up and down and shouting Nyaahnyaa-nyaah-nyaah-nyaah-you-cant-catch-me! 
He then runs away and hides, allegedly to the 
Cave to perform illicit acts with a small stuffed 
bear, which he records for posterity on the opi
nion bboard.
It was at this point that McLoony stromed in 
on our little assemblage, hands on hips and 
nostrils flaring. Just what the hell to you peo
ple think youre doing? Natrat news editor 
Wakemeupwhenyoure Ready looked up in 
amazement and said, Why Lisa darling, were 
just doing our duty as responsible journalists. 
Whats the matter with that? to which 
McLoony replied Journalistic responsiblity my 
ass! Im the Editor-in-Chief! This is my territory! 
Go do you duty downstairs. After a few nasty 
words were exchanged, McLoony saw no alter
native but to beat the crap out of Ready until 
he agreed to leave. Crawling down the hallway, 
Ready whimpered, Ok, L-L-L-Litha, you ww-win th-thith time, b-b-b-b-but Im only ddoing thith becauth youre a w-w-waaahhh!-wwoman...
Sadly, Lisa died the next day, but not before 
she could slip her notes into the Managing 
Editor-whose-name-we-still-cant-pronounces 
mailbox. After hours of intensive deciphering, 
we came to very few conclusions. However, in 
the interest of keeping the public informed, we 
present what little we could find.
10:13 PM Just kicked those dirty scumbag 
ingrate writers out. I need a drink. 
Maybe seven.
10:17 PM Ahh...much better. Nothing like 
a little grain alcohol and Drano to get 
the creative juices flowing.
10:24 PM Yesh, yesh, thish ish shurtainly 
a fine night, indeedy-do, yesh it ish. 
And a fine, fine, fine artikul thish will 
be, yesh, yesh, if I kud ownly find 
my pen, yesh, yesh.
10:38 PM Woops! hee hee...droped pen 
...yesh yesh. Kum back heer u shilly boy! Put that away, shilly, yule go 
blind! hee hee...
10:47 PM Avreboody moost get shton 
ed...
10:53 PM Yall? Yall? Schweethart? Kum 
bak, Yall...Marry me?
/V ' r,,.Expiring
Minds Really Give a Damn
By The Expiring Staff
 ' .V. ;
In this column, we will explore various aspects 
of the campus which have been neglected by 
other Natrat writers, mostly because nobody 
gives a damn about such ridiculous things.
Have you ever noticed that the 
rt Natrat Grill doesnt distribute0 |5 copies of The Natrat? Then why
did they name the place after this
newspaper?
Have you ever wondered if the TOPS com
puters could be twirled around like the tops 
theyre named after? We didnt think so.
If they call people over 65 senior citizens, 
then who are the freshman, sophomore and 
junior citizens? Expiring Minds want to know.
Isnt it strange that people dont study dur
ing study breaks? After all, people drink cof
fee during coffee breaks, and eat pizza during 
pizza breaks.
I know C-MU has a College of Fine Arts, but 
where are you supposed to go for Mediocre or 
Fair-to-Middlng Arts?
Does the fact that C-MU has Mellon in its 
name explain why there are so many fruits 
here?
Have you noticed that this column isnt the 
slightest bit funny? The Expiring Minds really 
dont give a damn.
The Expiring Staff is Stew Pidd, Randy 
Dandy, and Chris Cross.
Is this your idea of a university education?Is this your idea of a university?Is this your idea of an idea?Is this your idea?If you are concerned about the validity of this ad, come tothe first meeting of
THE DISJUNCTION
A MARGINAL FASCIST NEWSPAPER DEDICATED TO ITS OWN IDEAS, A SLANTED VIEW OF REALITY, AND A BETTER, MORE RIGHT-WING UNIVERSITY WE CAN DO IT!
THE DISJUNCTION needs writers, artists, reporters, depressed conservative wingnuts, hare krishnas, liars, cheaters, stealers, rustlers, hustlers, cowboys, indians, doctors, lawyers, dancers, singers, manicurists, hair stylists, andeditors.
12:00 the 2nd Tuesday of next week Skibo 12

---------------------------------------------------

By BRUISED CASSEROLE 
and FLOOSEY MCLOONY
Natrat Tag-team Champions
t
In the spirit of Band-Aid, Live-Aid, Farm-Aid, 
Gator-Aid and Comic Relief (so what if doesnt 
have an Aid after it, there is enough Aids go
ing around), three more benefit events took 
place over the weekend. Soek-Aid, Baby DocAid and Boat-Aid, which were held in Honolulu, 
Paris, and Tripoli, respectively, were all huge 
successes.
SOCK-AID
This 16-hour marathon benefit concert arose 
in an effort to complement the thousands of 
shoes sent by caring American citizens to Im
elda Marcos. While the Marcos greatly ap
preciated the podiatric signs of affection, the 
gifts left Mrs. Marcos with an enormous deficit 
in socks. The International Coalition of Hosiery 
and Sock Producers (ICHSP) realized the im
mediate need here and acted quickly to pro
vide relief. Ray Fits-sizes-10-to-13 Hopkins, 
founder of (ICHSP), was. quoted as saying, 
There hasnt been an event of this magnitude
* in the footwear industry since Buster Brown was 
born.
Hosting this event was James Watt, legendary 
in the footwear industry for putting his foot in 
his mouth so often. The list of entertainers was 
as large as King Kongs shoe size, quipped 
Watt. It included Boots Randolph, Jerry Lee 
Lewis, Nancy Sinatra, Gregory Hines, Patti 
LaBelle and Dr. Scholl.Jerry Lee Lewis opened the show with a stirm ring performance of his classic hit Dont you 
step on my blue suede shoes. Imelda weeped 
quietly as she was reminded of days long past. 
Nancy Sinatra provided a more positive note 
with a rendition of her hit These boots are 
made for walking.' Gregory Hines, fresh off the 
set of White Knights, charmed the audience with 
a little soft shoe.Picking up the tempo were Patti LaBelle, Dr. 
Scholl and Boots Randolph. Patti LaBelle belted
 out an energetic version of Somewhere East
Three Benefits for Real Jerks
BABY DOC-AID
On a smaller scale, friends, family and loyal ad
mirers of Baby Doc Duvalier, the felled Hatian 
leader, congregated in an exclusive Paris 
nightclub for a benefit evening. The list of enter
tainers who performed included Bruce Springs
teen, The Steve Miller Band, and Paul McCart
ney. Bruce Springsteen set a driving tone for 
the evening by opening the show with Born 
to Run. Steven Miller maintained the level of 
intensity with their now-classic song Jet 
Airliner. Paul McCartney put in a cameo ap
pearance with his wife, Linda. The two offered 
a flawless performance of the Wings hit Band 
on the Run.
When asked about his future plans, Baby Doc 
said he may cash in on the US Air frequent fliers 
plan and take it from there. Baby Doc-Aid does 
not stop with the show in Paris, however. The 
Council for Baby Doc-Aid will continue its fund
raising efforts by selling BON-BONS FOR TONTONS. The proceeds of all sales will go to the 
Baby Doc-Aid fund, believed to be located 
somewhere in Switzerland.
Individuals interested in making a contribution 
to Baby Doc-Aid can call toll free
1 -900-B ABYDOC
continued on page 7
Here Baby Doc is forced into the oldest profession in order to support himself
FluffSlanderScribbleKhakiElephants
of Manilla, sung to the tune of the Wizard of 
Oz classic, with new lyrics by Weird A1 
Yankovich: Somewhere east of Manilla / Skies 
are blue / Weve got land in Manhattan / and 
a billion or two...Afterward, Patti presented 
Imelda Marcos with a beautifully crafted pair 
of ruby slippers, which Imelda immediately 
donned, tapping her heels together and saying 
Theres no place like home. Theres no place 
like home.
Dr. Scholl, a long-time favorite among 
convention-goers, dazzled the audience with his 
dry wit. Why couldnt the chicken cross the
road? he challenged the audience. Because 
his shoes didnt fit right. The hilarity continued 
throughout Scholls neo-classic stand-up act. 
Boots Randolph, initially invited strictly for his 
names sake, proved resourceful. He played 
Tiptoe through the Tulips on a pair of gold 
toenail clippers which he later presented to Mrs. 
Marcos. Imelda closed the show herself with her 
own version of The Beer Barrel Polka, which 
is believed to be of great personal significance 
to the Marcos. Experts are clueless.
The benefit was not limited to the concert. 
President and Mrs. Reagan sent a full set of lug
gage to Ferdinand and Imelda, with matching 
shoe racks. Dr. Scholls corporation contributed 
a life-time supply of odor-eater in-soles.
Supporting the same cause, celebrity, 
olympic-style events preceeded the actual con
cert. The events included a ballot stuffing race, 
which was won by Sidney pollack. Practice 
makes perfect. Overall, Sock-Aid was a roar
ing success.
If you wish to contribute to the Imelda Mar
cos Sock fund, the toll free number is 
1-900-SHU-LESS.
Here is Dr. Sholl doing his best James Watt...Look Ronny, no hands!Offical U.S. Navy file photos of the Libyan Cruiser The Quadafi Queen sinking as U.S. 
Sailors (not pictured) chanted We are the champions.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The NatratApril 1, 1986Oscars plagued with
By JOE FUDGE
Natrat Theatre/Film Critter
On march 24, the 58th Annual Academy 
Awards were presented in Hollywood at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion. The evening had 
several surprises though no more than the usual 
spectacle that occurs every year.
The evening opened with a marvelous per
formance by Teri Garr riding atop a huge pro
peller plane that landed right in the middle of 
the stage! Also riding this marv el of mechanical 
manure were many beautiful female dancers 
sporting their gams in usual Hollywood style. 
Joseph Papp, the famous producer of such 
Broadway biggies as Chorus Line, liked the pro
duction so much that he signed Ms. Garr to a 
long term contract to perform the same number 
in New York. When asked if he thought the 
show would be a success Papp commented 
Who Cares? David Letterman says Teris great in bed!
The evening was full of surprises. Robin 
Williams, one of the evenings three hosts, pro
vided some comic relief from all the ceremony 
by doing an imitation of Jack Nicholson right 
in front of the unpredictable actor. After the 
show Nicholson was heard saying that he 
thought the impression was quite good. Williams 
was unavailable for comment as he was being 
rushed to the hospital after finding an axe in
explicably planted in his back.
Of course, the chief attraction at the awards 
ceremony is who wins. In fact, the results of the 
voting proved to be the evenings most enter
taining feature. William Hurt was one of the 
nominees for Best Actor for his performance as 
a flaming fairy' in Kiss of the Spider Woman. In 
fact, Hurt was considered the critics favorite. 
But to everyones surprise, Hurt won both the 
awards for best actor and for best actress. When 
a spokesman for the Academy was questioned 
about the unusual outcome he replied I guess
the voting members just felt that Hurt played 
a woman better than Bancroft or Streep. This 
almost happened when Dustin Hoffman played 
in Tootsie.  Another unprecedented fiasco was 
the announcement made by Price Waterhouse, 
the accounting firm that secretly tallies the 
ballots and produces the list of nominees for 
each award. It seems that the firm made a 
mistake in its tallying of the nominations for best 
director. John Fukupp, a spokesman for the firm 
announced We thought that Babenco was 
spanish for Spielberg. As such, all votes for 
the South American director went to Spielberg. 
It is the first time in nine years that someone 
has won the award for best director without be
ing nominated. The last such occurance was in 
1977 when Woody Allen won for his film An
nie Hall. Allen turned down the award so the 
academy decided to give it to John Huston in
stead. When Spielbergs name was announced 
as Best Director, Japanese director Akiro 
Kurosawa attempted to commit seppaku but was 
stopped when he missed and accidentally maim
ed Gary' Coleman. John Huston was question
ed after the broadcast but didnt give any com
ments as he was foaming at the mouth. 
Spielberg acceptance speech was equally sur
prising. He announced his plan to divorce his 
wife Amy Irving and marry his long-time lover, 
Whoopi Goldberg.
Some other awards were for Don Ameche for 
his break-dancing in the film Cocoon. This on
ly goes to prove that even Hollywood can be 
fooled by special effects. Also a winner was Anjelica Huston as best supporting actress for her 
role in Prizzis Honor. Ms. Houston played the 
manipulative daughter of a ruthless and power
ful man. One can understand the Academys 
choice since the part in no way resembles Ms. 
Hustons personal life. Winning for best song 
in a movie was Lionel Richie for his Say You 
Say Me in White Nights. It would seem that the
Sly Stallone breaks into Prince Waterhouse demanding that he win.
Academy still hasnt forgiven Huey Lewis for 
not showing up for Live Aid.
While the awards do take up most of the time, 
fashion also plays a major part of the Oscar 
broadcast. Most notable was Cher whose outfit 
was reminiscent of a flock of ravens caught in 
the propeller of a plane. Also of note was a pro
duction number staged with aged and fading 
Hollywood contract starlets. In the cast were 
such unnotables as June Allison, Esther
Williams and Anne Miller. Coincidently, all of 
the actresses were already rehearsing the 
number for an upcoming episode of The Love 
Boat.
While the Academy Awards usually proves 
to be an entertaining evening of television, we 
can all rest in the knowledge that for at least 
one evening out of the year, all these loonies 
are off the streets.
mishaps and politics
Ronbo Industries proudly introduces..
Cabbage Patch Contras
You have seen them on T.V. and read about them in the papers, now you can have one for your very own. These are most loveable freedom fighters 
around. Yes kids and gun enthusiasts, you can enjoy the thrill of guerrillia warfare in the comfort of your home while you support our President.
To Order send $100.000,000.00 and $1.95 shipping and 
handling to:
Cabbage Patch Contras
c/o Ronny Shake n" Bake Reagan
1600 Pennsy St
Vacation Land. CA 00000 .....-

---------------------------------------------------

April 1, 1986The NatratPage 7Benefits for Assholes
with the linveilinor nf hie
BOAT-AID
An extravaganza-benefit for the Libyan Navy 
took place over the weekend in sunny Tripoli. 
The days events included music , fun in the 
sun, and a few surprises before the day was 
over. Much of the entertainment for this event 
was graciously sponsored by President Ronald 
Reagan. Musical acts icluded the Grateful Dead, 
Simon and Garfunkel and Christopher Cross. 
The Grateful Dead were entertaining as always. 
Simon and Garfunkel reunited for the first time since their reunion concert tour in 1983, to per
form their blockbuster hit Bridge Over Troubl
ed Water. Christopher Cross preserved the 
mellow atmosphere by crooning his grammy 
award-winner, Sailing.
But the fun was not limited to music. Other 
events included a special surprise appearance 
by the U.S. Navy precision flying team, the Blue 
Angels. Not only did they perform their usual 
death-defying stunts, but also a remarkably 
poignant strafing run.
Events also included a good-natured, but 
heated, struggle for the citric, highlycontroversial Lime of Death. Khadaffy also 
threw his hat into the packaged food industry
with the unveiling of his new project the Muammar Boom-Boom Khadaffy Breakfast Cereal: Breakfast of Hellions.
Boom-Boom was touched by the avid display 
of support and affection from all who attended 
and enjoyed the day of fun and entertainment.
Those interested in making a contribution to 
Boom-Boom and the Libyan Navy can call toll free 1-900-MAD-MANN.
East meets west in this sprawling epic about a 
Japanese Warlords attempt to take over 
Cleveland. This film is filled with gun fights and 
even more kimonos. Clint Eastwood is positively 
brilliant as the silent but strong Shogun and 
Bonnie Franklin and Lola Falana are equally 
credible as his beautiful geishas. The mayor of 
Cleveland is played by Yoko One but always 
seems to have the feeling that she secretly lusts 
after Eastwood. Slim Pickins plays her trusty 
companion Gippy but its Clara Peller as
Clevelands town prostitute that is the most 
notable feature of this film. Ms. Peller is at her 
seductive and sensual best. Akiro Kurosawa 
refused to direct this film.
NATRAT MOVIE GRADE 3 Yen
Friday
The Godfather
The film that taught America three valuable 
lessons: never stop to pay tolls on the thruway, 
never let your wife start the car and NEVER 
haggle about the price of your casino. Marlon 
Brando mumbles his way through the lead as 
Vito Corleone, head of Americas first family 
of crime. This is a real thoroughbred of a film.
NATRAT MOVIE GRADE 3.40
The Godfather, Part II
The Latest from Ronco-Rollo-Matic products....
Cocaine Habit Kicker
By JOE FUDGE and the late MIKE McHUH
(McHuh was rubbed out after his Friday review
- Ed.)
Thursday
The Magnificent Seven 
Meet the Seven Samurai
I cant believe it could have been so 
easy. 
Captin Crunch
I going to recomend it to all my 
friends. 
Dave Parkere
The sequel to the box office smash with A1 
Pacino taking control of the Corleone crime 
family. Pacino spends more time killing off 
members of his own family than he does wip
ing out his enemies. Poor Fredo.
NATRAT MOVIE GRADE 3.00
The Godfather, Part III
The final chapter in the Godfather trilogy finds 
the grandson of Vito Corleone taking control of 
the family business. John Travolta has the lead 
as Anthony Corleone, who takes control of the 
family after the murder of his father, Michael. 
Anthonys first act of vengeance is to bring back 
DISCO.
NATRAT MOVIE GRADE 1.00
Sunday
Walt Disneys Debbie 
Does Dallas
The famous studio takes on a real challenge in 
making a G picture out of the porno-movie 
blockbuster. Needless to say that Debbie real
ly IS a cheerleader and the most action she sees 
is licking the creamery butter off her popcorn.
NATRAT MOVIE GRADE 0.00
I take it with me where ever I may 
be.
Richard Prior
This revolutionary device makes it a snap to end that ugly and costly cocaine addiction. The solid oak device 
has a chamber for each day of the week. Each chamber is specfically calibrated as to offer easy vvithdrawl. Soon 
Kilos will turn to grams as you progress through the program. It pays for it's self in a matter of hours. Kid tested, 
mother approved.
To Order:
Send $29.99 to 
Beatrice Products 
1313 Mockingbird Lane 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Act now an recieve a free gift... The 
Bamboo Steamer: For that Freebase 
experience of a lifetime.

---------------------------------------------------

**eagani ou look marvelo"" Its a
6:00 a.m. 
Monday, March 31, 1986 0 
Skibop Room 11 
Two hundred thousand
Complimentary Ti 
Mercedes Benz 380sl 
Anything else you 
(you must promise
with any Fake ID 
Skibop Mis-i
Dicks place 
Information: 555-1
Herb
Chuck Woolery 
Liberace
Laurence Welk and his 
Ferdinand Marcos and 
Bubles La Tush 
Lyndon La Rouche 
Karel The Robot 
The Transformers 
The Go-bots 
The Care Bears 
Crazy Eddie 
and the Master of 
Teddy Ruxpin

---------------------------------------------------

Laurence Welk performing Lets Get Physical
Some enthusiastic students have already lined up.
Anthony Quinn: Im Greek...screw this Melon shit.
o 9X

---------------------------------------------------

Slander
Pending a hearing on charges of 
slander, libel, harrassment, ridicule 
and a slew of other offenses, our 
regular strip authors were unable to 
produce their strips this week. But the 
slander must go on! So without further 
ado, The Natrat proudly presents the 
debut of a true genius, straight from 
the backwoods of Newark, New Jersey 
. . . ISLAK COKLAND!
Watch the Beer Can Go Through the Guys Head Comix
Glass of Milk Comix

---------------------------------------------------

Scribble

---------------------------------------------------

Scotchg
Open everyday that does not end in a y.
The new menu has arrived and we are 
proud to announce that the following 
are on tap:
Milson 
Pudwiser 
I. C. in the Dark 
and the popular
Rhubarb Hi-C!
Scotchguard is also proud to announce that we now acq^pt no major credit cards or Val-i-dine.

---------------------------------------------------

____________________Fertilizer
^^^===a^=^==^=^==="............................ 1 1 1  !^!!!^ggff!g5g5!!g^l?!!l!Hg!llFBB5BB5555B5BB
Campus Security: A New Look for a Fun Bunch of Guys
Student
center
designed
Pictured at left are the blue prints for the new 
student center which the university plans to 
build with the first of its revenue from the capital 
campaign. The center will feature a much ex
panded version of gray matter, shown here as 
the dark shapes in the center and on the left 
side of the diagram. The renovations will also 
involve considerable reworking of the existing 
space in Skibo, as well as significant recon
figuration of the exterior of of the building. The 
renovations should turn Skibo into a more at
tractive and interesting meeting place for 
students. Members of the administration feel 
certain that the new design will improve the 
quality of life at the university, giving students 
more space in a relaxing, comfortable 
environment.
At left, one campus security officer 
displays some of the fancy footwork 
that he has been learning as a part 
of the new image of the campus 
force. With fitness playing an 
increasingly important role in the 
lives of many people in the eighties, 
C-MUs security department decid
ed to get into the swing of things with 
regular aerobics classes to maintain 
fitness and generally improve the 
morale and condition of the force.
Campus security officers at right try 
out some of the new looks this 
spring. Security is looking for a 
change to up-date the look of the 
force, without completely changing 
the existing uniform. Accessories 
seem to be the answer; they can 
spice up a classic look, giving it a feel 
of the eighties sleekness, without 
compromising the authority of the 
uniform.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The NatratApril 1, 1986
Students for Protest will be sponsoring a
DEMONSTRATION
Tuesday, April 1 at 12:00 
in front of the Flashcube
Topic to be decided; nominations start at 11:30 with voting at 11:55.
Poster board and markers will be 
provided, but bring your own 2-by-4's.
Airline Deregulation: Dangerous or Desirable?
By FLOOSEY MCLOONY
n
C-MU 
Hack Store
C-MU Hack Store: Geek Center-0010 level
Phone: 555-HACK MM: HSGC@TK 
For a current price list: Type HELP GEEK-STORE-PRICES on 
any BOTTOMS system
Suckerboards!
Memory contraction board
$69.95
Card uses just enough of your 
memory to prevent boot-up. 
Uses 4k or 1 short circuit 
Fits in any disk drive slot and 
needs another powersupply!* 
Warranty!? - You want what?
*Boy, have we got a deal for you!
Natrat Editor-in-Chief
Price wars, ever-decreasing fares, and 
the worst year in airline history have 
moved the issue of airline deregulation 
into a position of prominence in the 
minds of many people. This is not a surporising development, as the growing 0 
pains of the airline industry are highly 
visible and hold the potential to be 
highly dangerous as well.
Given the apparent problems with 
maintenance at many major airlines, 
some people feel that the consequences 
of deregulation, (see photo) would be 
highly undesirable. I dont know. I think 
it might be fun. To me, these look like 
three happening guys who are just out 
for a good time. So whats wrong with 
that? They have cover-alls and the pro
per hats; they obviously know what they 
are doing. Does that mean that they 
shouldnt treat their occupations with a 
sense of humor?
And aside from the sheer whimsy that 
deregulation will put into the experience 
of commercial flight, it will return an ele
ment of risk to what has become a hum
drum activity, taken entirely for granted 
by most. I think we need that hint of N 
risk, that slight sense of adventure. It 
is a part of our American heritage which 
has disappeared slowly but surely with 
the regulation of commercial flight.
Deregulation (see photo) will also pro
vide an impetus for creativity in the 
commercial flight industry which could 
lead to significant advances in 
aeronautics. Or it could lead to a lot of 
plane crashes, but that is the chance that 
we have to take as open-minded, 
responsible individuals.

---------------------------------------------------

The American Society for 
the Prevention of 
Cruelty to E. coli
(ASPCEC)
Announces its first gathering,
Tuesday, April 1, 1986 
12:00 noon 
in the Steam Tunnels under CFA
The ASPCEC Charter:
 We are dedicated to preserving the stereotypical campus liberal ideals We are organized for the specific purpose of banning the further use of the bacteria E. coli for any purpose 
on the basis of cruelty to living organisms We will also support any other liberal cause aimed at undermining the establishment We will use any means necessary to achieve our goal
ASPCEC Events:
Candlelight Vigil on tKe cut, featuring noted folk musicians who will support any liberal cause in order to get on T.V.
Protest and Blockade of Mellon Institute, aimed especially at the Sixth Floor Biology labsincluding harrasment of professors 
Protest in front of Warner Hall to show the administration that we really are serious
Bake Sale (baking kills yeast, not E. coli) in Skibo to raise money to support ourselves and other campus liberals 
Petition signing and harrasment of students in front of Doherty Hall 
Presentation of Petition to president Cyrat
Presentation of ASPCEC Charter to Student Senate with request for funding and recognition 
Presentation of Petition to local and national politicians, including President Ronbo
Cruel experiments performed on E. coli
 Destruction of cells using a Sonicatora device that subjects the cells to high power pulses of high frequency (20,000 cycles per second) 
sound waves that crack the cells
 Destruction of cells using lysozymes that decompose the E. coli cell walls 
Use of a centrifugea machine that spins at 40,000 revolutions per minute, causing a force of over 10 times the force of gravity to 
be exerted on the cells 
 Intoxicating cells with 200 proof ethanol
ASPCEC Petition:
We, the undersigned students, professors, and other nutcases in the Carnegie-Mellon liberal community, obnoxiously demand that all laboratories, 
research or other, cease and decist from the use of the bacteria E. coliior all purposes We also obnoxiously demand that Carnegie-Mellon 
divest itself of all organizations that partake in the torture of E. coli. Our obnoxious demand is made on the basis that all experiments 
performed on E. coli are cruel.Kill People, Not Bacteria!
*Note: The ASPCEC is not an official campus organization, nor is it funded by your tuition, nor is it affiliated with any other liberal cause, although it would like to be all three.

---------------------------------------------------

Natrat
Tartan Dome: New Home
Artists rendering of the Tartan Dome.
Thats Dedication!
Tartan hooter plays even after recent amputation of lower leg.
Tartan fencer deftly counters a thrust to the right eye by fielding it with the left*
Spuds
for the Pirates?
By C.D. TROUBLE
Former Tartan Everything
The Athletic Department, in association with 
the Student Affairs office, after consulting with 
Mr. Rodgers of the Business department, dur
ing a conference with Academic Affairs staff, 
while on the phone with Don Heel of the Public 
Relations Department, after okaying the meeting 
with the Faculty Senate, in agreement with the 
Student Senate but not necessarily the Student 
Government, after being ordered to speak to 
each other by Dick Cyrat, consulted with Pirate 
General Manager Sydd Finch today and decid
ed to build a new Athletic Facility designed to 
give the students of Carnegie-Mellon and the 
good old Buccos a place to recreate.
Scheduled to be built once negotiations with 
the architectural firms, art companies, and 
athletic consultants are all notified and met with, 
the Tartan Dome will be constructed where 
the intramural field stands now. It will house 
all Carnegie-Mellon athletics, including the 
baseball and hockey clubs, and will also house 
the Pittsburgh Pirates when their Three Rivers 
Stadium lease expires in 25 years. This is good 
timing, since the conferences and meetings cer
tainly will not be over by then.
When asked about the dome, Pirate manager
Jim Leeland said, What do I care. By the time 
they build the dome, Ill have been fired three 
or four times by then. He predicted that the 
current Pirate rebuilding plan would just about 
be over by then. But the real question is whether 
or not Jose DeLeon will have a winning season 
by then?
The dome will be shaped just like a dome, 
but will be completely plaid. There will be a ' 
huge tilted square atop the dome, and there will 
be one more change. The Pittsburgh Pirates will 
from now on be referred to as the 
Pittsburgh-Pirates.
When asked about the dome, one CarnegieMellon student reacted violently. He punched 
out the reporter and screamed By the time 
they do anything to aid the students, the entire 
current administration will drop dead during the 
bureaucracy meetings, and I will be getting 
phone calls from students wanting money, but 
I wont be able to afford it because Ill be on ' 
Social Security!
In other sports news, Muammar Boom-Boom 
Khadafy was drafted in a surprise free agent 
move by the Pirates. In his first spring training 
game, Khadafy struck out six times in six at bats, 
but he swears that he hit two homers and a 
double.
Despite incessant cossack dancing, no. 56 plays mean defense for the Tartans.
