Carnival Queen Elections Friday
NANCY CALLAWAY LYNDA COOPER BETTY
KKG ' DG ChiO
VOL. 46No. 23 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., APRIL 28, 1953
Printing Dept. 
Elevated To School
New Building Planned For Only
School Giving BS Degree In Field
Techs department of printing management has just been pro
moted. 'President J. C. Warner announced last week that as of July 
1, 1953, the department will become the School of Printing Man
agement, the only school in the world offering a B. S. degree in 
this field. ?-----------------------------------------------------------------
Glen U. Cleeton, present H&SS 
dean, has been selected to head 
the new school; Kenneth R. Burch - 
ard, now head of the printing ad
ministration department, will be
come assistant dean.
The establishment of the new 
school will allow for eventual ex
pansion of student enrollment, 
program of study, teaching staff, 
and laboratory and instructional 
facilities. No immediate modifica
tion can take place, however, since 
these changes are possible only to 
the extent that additional finanobtained through 
individual donacial support is 
industrial and 
tions.
Need Financial Aid
Tech officials hope that a donor 
will be found who is willing to 
supply funds for a separate build
ing to house the new school. The 
present department occupies 27 
rooms on the first floor of Admin
istration Hall.
With additional financial aid the 
program of study would be modi
fied to include options relating to 
[Continued on page 8]
Freshmen
GUIDANCE PROGRAM 
A series of guidance meetings are being held this semester 
to help orient you with respect to the various professions which 
comprise engineering, science, and management, and to help you 
nake the best choice of departments at CIT. Each of the ten 
-alks presented in the series have been duplicated, and copies 
of them are available on request in my office (AH 254-C). If 
you desire further guidance information, you are invited to ar
range private consultations with the department heads con
cerned.
CHANGE OF DEPARTMENT 
Within practicable limits, freshmen will not be held to the 
selection of department made at the time of admission. A transfer 
will be permitted without question if it does not cause the es
tablished capacity of the department to be exceeded. If the 
number seeking transfer into a department would cause its ca
pacity to be exceeded, the students permitted to transfer will be 
selected after careful consideration of their scholarship and of 
their individual interests and desires. The guiding principle in 
consideration of a request for change of department will be to 
serve the best interest of the individual student.
If you are convinced that the department in which you are 
now registered is the proper choice for youand a majority of 
the members of your class are probably so convincedno fur
ther action on your part, other than pre-registration for the Sopho
more year, is necessary. However, if you wish to transfr:
1. Obtain a departmental transfer card from the registrar, 
and fill it out. It will not be necessary for you to obtain sig
natures of department heads, but for students under 21 years 
of age, the signature of the parent or guardian is required.
2. Turn in to me the completed transfer form, together with 
a letter outlining your reasons for requesting the transfer, not 
later than Thursday, May 14, 1953.
You will be told whether your transfer can be effected at 
the time your pre-register.
PRE-REGISTRATION 
All freshmen enrolled in the engineering, science, and man
agement departments are required to pre-register for the aca
demic year 1953-54, prior to the start of final examinations. You 
should go to my office (AH 254-C) to accomplish this sometime 
during the week of May 17. Excepting printing management stu
dents, who will be pre-registered by the printing management 
department. You will be given the necessary forms and In
structions when you report for pre-registration.
SUMMER SESSION 
The 1953 summer session is scheduled for June 8 to August 
1. Freshmen who are irregular should plan te attnd; other
wise you may not be able to graduate with your class. If you 
plan to attend the summer session, you should, at your earliest 
convenience, make application for summer courses on a form 
which may be obtained at the admissions office, AH 161.
John W. Graham, Jr.
Chairman, Sub-Committee on Freshmen.
Voting Is Light 
In ElectionsOnly 352 Students Vote For Officers
Voting was very light in the 
Student Council and class officer 
elections held last Wednesday, 
April 22. Of a possible 2400 voters 
only 352 persons cast their vote, 
voting being comparatively heavy 
in the Fine Arts department.
The results of the elections are 
as follows:
Student Council: Engineering
and Science; Richard Christian 
son, Robert Bischak, and Joe 
Bercsi. Humanistic and Social 
Studies; Albert Blank. Fine Arts; 
John Schonder and Joseph Ceo. 
MMCC; Mary Jane Opris.
Class Officers: Class of 1954; 
President, Joseph Bercsi; Secre
tary, Clark Garrecht; Treasurer, 
Albert Blank j Vice-president of 
FA, Sorlee Gefsky; Vice-president 
of E&S, Paul Smith; Vice-presi
dent of H&SS, Harry F. Ander
son; Vice-president of MMCC, no 
candidate.
Class of 1955; President, Norbert L. Ackerman; Secretary, 
Frank Marchlenski; Treasurer, 
W. Lowell Steinbrenner; Vicepresident of FA, no candidate; 
Vice-president of E&S, Joseph A. 
Szwec, Vice-president of H&SS, 
Thomas De Sena; Vice-president 
of MMCC, Sheila L. Sullivan.
Class of 1956; President, George 
W. Bange, Secretary, Mary A. 
Rudy; Treasurer, Allan S. Ander
son; Vice-president of FA, Fran
cis T. Wickham; Vice-president of 
E&S, J. Earle Bisbey; Vice-pres
ident of H&SS, no candidate; 
Vice-president of MMCC, no can
didate.
GINNY KEMMLER
ChiO
LEVIN
AEPhi
JOAN LININGER
TriDelt
PEGGY MAURER
Dorms
SALLY MILLERTT'irr*BARBARA MYERS
SigKap
Not pictured:
Eunice Brunn, 
TriDelt
Mary Jane Troop, 
KAT
Mary Wagner, 
SigKap
LOU ROCKS
DGKAT
Eddy Howards Band 
Signed For Carnival
Eddy Howard and his orchestra will be the second half of 1953 
Spring Carnivals double dance bill. Dick Franklin has announced 
that Howard will play for the formal dance on Saturday night, May 
9, in the mens gym. On Friday night, Carnival goers will dance to
--------------------------------------------------?the music of Buddy Williams.
Fred Sonnenberg, chairman of thePershing Rifles Holds Annual 
Regimental Meeting At Tech
The University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Tech were host to 
11 other colleges last Saturday, April 25, in the annual Pershing Rifle 
drill meet. Among the schools sending teams to the Tech campus, 
on which the affair was held, were University of Maryland, Virginia 
State university, Washington andf 
Jefferson, Duquesne, Penn State,
Johns Hopkins, Virginia Polytechnical institute, Lehigh university,
Hampton institute, University of 
Pittsburgh, Western Maryland 
college, Penn Military college, and 
Carnegie Tech.
Winners 
Included in the competition 
were a rifle match, held at the 
rifle range, and maching drills, in
cluding advanced trick drill, basic 
trick drill, and basic company 
drill. Company C-M from the 
University of Maryland won the 
rifle match and the basic trick 
drill. Pennsylvania Military col
lege won the basic standard com
pany drill and the advanced trick 
drill. 
In the evening a banquet was 
held at Soldiers and Sailors Me
morial hall. At this affair, Miss 
Dory Miller, student at Pitt, was 
selected as queen and honorary 
Cadet Colonel for the 5th regi[Continued on page 2\
Kenneth Haynes Is New Thistle Editor For Coining Year
At an election held Tuesday, 
April 14, Kenneth Haynes was 
chosen next years Thistle edi
tor. The staff members for the 
yearbook were elected the follow
ing Tuesday evening and are as 
follows: Managing Editor, John 
Scouller; Business Manager, Phil 
Uridge; Advertising Manager, 
Paul Borland; Circulation Mana
ger, Mary Whitmyre; Photography 
Editor, Jim Plugge; Copy Editor, j 
Marguerite Barberi; Sports Edi
tor, Bill Branscombe; Candids Ed
itor, John Herr; Fraternities Edi
tor, Mary Jane Opris; Art Editor, 
Jim Williams; Production Layout 
Editor, Ove Andersen.
The'Thistle banquet will be 
held tonight at the Webster Hall 
hotel, at which time the queen 
will be announced.
ticket committee, announced that 
tickets for the double event will 
go on sale May 27 at $4.90.
With the signing of Howard, CIT 
music fans will have a first-hand 
opportunity to see and hear the 
band that the nations top music 
authorities have tabbed Americas 
favorite dance band.
Versatility is Eddy Howard's 
keynote: he plays the trombone 
and guitar, sings, conducts his 
band, and is an accomplished 
dancer.
As a composer, Howard has 
[Continued on page 8J
Eddie Howard
Playing for Carnivai

---------------------------------------------------

Pare 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 28, 1953
Communists Making Steady 
Advances In Indo-China
By Professor Richard K. Murdoch
The excitement of the repatriation of wounded Allied prisoners 
in Korea has combined with the lessening tension in the cold war 
to overshadow the latest war news from Indo-China. This war has 
never received much attention in the United States because we have 
no fighting men in southeastern Asia and this is sufficint to remove 
the hostilities far from the interest of the average American. As 
reported in a recent news magazine, only six people out of one hundred 
interviewed had the slightest notion where Indo-China is located.
The recent lighting advance of the communist-led Viet Minh 
troops across the Kingdom of Laos in northwestern Indo-China, 
indicates that as the Korean War slows down, the one in southeastern 
Asia speeds up. The rapid deterioration of the French and Laotian 
position threatens to place communist forces on the Thai (Siamese) 
border thus laying open the almost defenseless Kingdom of Cambodia 
to the south. The ease with which Viet Minh forces seized the ma
jor cities of Xiengkhouang and Luang Pubang (the capital of Laos) 
seems to portend collapse of all French resistance outside the HanoiRed river area in northeastern Indo-China. Much depends upon how 
rapidly Governor General Raoul Gautier can transport men and sup
plies by air-lift to the scene of the current fighting.
America Steps Up Aid
American military aid is pouring into southeastern Asia in in
creasing volume. Large numbers of American civilian and military 
advisors are concentrated in Hanoi and Saigon training the Frenchled Viet Nam forces of Emperor Bao Dai. The recent visit of French 
premier, Rene Mayer, to the United States was inspired in part by 
a French desire that the American government take over part of the 
burden of the fighting job in Indo-China. The premier received as
surances that American supplies would be increased and would in
clude latest types of jet aircraft.
With Viet Minh forces in control of Laos, the way would be open 
to Thailand where a few ill-trained troops would be no match for 
the communists; to Burma where civil war, communist activity, and 
Chinese Nationalist troops all combine to produce anarchy and to 
India to the west of Burma. Such a communist advance would en
danger the Western World. General Romulo, the Philippine dele
gate to the United Nations, had good reason to warn the United 
Nations command in Korea against agreeing to any communist pro
posal for a general truce that did not include an end to fighting in 
Indo-China.
A : ' '  ; ,
IM* ****** S-f*6T
New Dorm Floor Plan
Proposed Layout for Ultramodern Building
More BOUNCE to the Ounce
NO MCOE 
fiyis/c SAoc&es 
Pakme--
/r'S CHBAPBG-roco bv BLUE eiDGB SOS
HOMING MARS 
yore Edi eH o
CO/W&tfARiJZ-Btue fuccsCOACH
a,Cmpus ceCrleufo kOpko A,uuarlmeupeo J 
mpCspupe euf K,aL mpCspupe NCkc
Liberty Ave. at Grant St., Pittsburgh. Pa CO 1-1800
Around 
The Town
Pittsburgh Playhouse has re
hearsals underway for the open
ing of the bright musical revue 
Three To One, which begins a 
four week run on Saturday at the 
Playhouse on Craft avenue.
The musical revue includes 
some hilarious sketches and a mu
sical score highlighted by the now 
standard classic How High the 
Moon.
Three To One will be the 
spring musical at Pittsburghs 
community theater  always the 
highlight of the season.
* * *
Gilbert and Sullivans The 
Sorcerer, will be presented 
Thursday, April 30, at 8:30 p.m. 
in the auditorium of Schenley high 
school, Bigelow boulevard and 
Center avenue.
The plot of the opera concerns 
the desire of a young lover, Alex
is, betrothed to Aline, that every
one should love someone as he did. 
To insure his friends future hap
piness, he gets the family sor
cerer to give each a love portion. 
This is done and leads to many 
complications.
Tickets are now on sale at Gimbels, Hornes, Wagner-Bunds, 
Benswangers in Squirrel Hill, and 
Mansmanns in East Liberty.
 * *
The String orchestra of the de
partment of music will give a con
cert on May 3, at 8:30 p.m. The 
conductor will be Professor Gosta 
Andreasson and the program will 
include works by Handel, Bach, 
Mozart, and Siblius. It will be 
held in Exhibition Hall of the Fine 
Arts building.
Tickets are available in the mu
sic department office.
* * *
Events sponsored by the Isaac 
Seder educational center of the 
YM&WHA, 315 South Bellefield 
avenue in Oakland, this week will 
include a lecture-discussion on the 
Problems of Emotional Adjust
ment in Everyday Life and the 
showing of the French Whoopde-doo, Lady Paname.
Dr. Stanley B. Morgenlander 
will lecture this evening at 8:15 
p.m. on why people differ from 
one another. He will discuss peo
ple as individuals with their vary
ing abilities.
On Sunday, May 3, the film will 
be shown which gives a view of 
Paris as it is.
The public is invited to these 
events.
I %
Present Arms!
One of the 12 Visiting Drill Squads
Buggies
All organizations wishing te 
enter a buggy in the Spring 
Carnival sweepstakes must 
turn in entry fees to the Dean 
of Mens office by Friday, May 
1. The entry fee is $8.44 per 
buggy entered.
XPershing[Continued from page I] 
ment of the Pershing Rifles. The 
principal speaker at the banquet 
was Lieutenant Colonel Melvin R. 
Blair, who has been on a lecture 
tour for the Department of De
fense.
Holder of Medals
During World War II, he serv
ed in the China-Burma field of 
operations; and in the present 
Korean War he was battalion 
commander in the 25th division. 
He is also winner of the Distin
guished Service Cross, Silver Star, 
Bronze Star, and Purple Heart. .
In charge of the Pershing Rifle 
competition was Robert McKie, a 
senior in electrical engineering. 
He is also cadet commander of the 
ROTC unit here on campus.
The national society of Pershing 
Rifles was founded by General 
Pershing in 1894.
Tech To Receive Lockheed Fund For Leadership
Carnegie Tech was one of 15 
colleges and universities selected 
recently to participate in the new
ly established Lockheed leader
ship fund, ah educational plan to 
help expand Americas industrial 
horizon.
Each of the 15 schools will an
nually administer one new leaderscholarship. Seniors in public, 
private or parochial high school 
are eligible, in nation-wide com
petition.
Five more annual awards WiU 
be reserved for sons and daugh
ters of Lockheed employees.
Typists
The TARTAN is in need of 
several experienced typists. 
If you are interested in help
ing out on Friday night or 
Sunday afternoon, call MU 1- 
5380 any time after 5 p.m.
Sr. Membership 
Award Presented 
May 12 In MMCC
The annual senior membership 
award will be presented at a sen
ior assembly in MMCC 103 at 
11:30 a.m., Tuesday, May 12. Rep
resentatives from the American 
Association of University Women 
will present the award.
The president of Pittsburgh 
Womens Clan will speak, follow
ed by farewell messages from 
MMCC Dean Edith W. Alexander 
and acting Dean of Women, Nancjr
O. Dickinson,
All Margaret Morrison senior 
women are urged to attend thi 
meeting. In addition to the award 
presentation, commencement an
nouncement will be made.
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
Campus capers call for Coke
How long can Jack be nimble? 
Square dancing's rugged . .. 
better tune up now and then 
with refreshing Coca-Cola.
D kLLHHf RukWE eRLOk*pLL k4 Lc. 0k0e 0kp e 0kcAeur Em 
0k0ei0kle nkLLlpus 0kcAeur kT ApLLanRCsO
5722 Center Avenue 
*Cok yw o 4(1y.T(4(- frod-norli.
Itlland 1-7* I 
9 dw%to LO5 0k0e 0kpe 0kcAeur

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday. April 28, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPagre S
Final Touches Are Put 
On Shoot The Works
Under the guiding hands of di
rectors Carolyn Jenkins and Frank 
Bollinger, the final touches are be
ing put on the Scotch n Soda 
clubs *1953 production, Shoot the 
Works. The show opens in the 
Scotch n Soda theater at 8:3*0 on 
Tuesday, May 5, and continues 
through Thursday.
Differing considerably from last 
years Good Heavens, which 
was a book show (continuous plot 
and same characters), Shoot the 
Works is a musical revue con
taining 18 unconnected scenes, 
some singing, some dancing, and 
many comedy skits.
Tickets for the Spring Carnival 
musical are on sale in Skibo every 
noon from 11:30 to 1:30 for $1.50, 
and will be on sale the nights of 
the performances.
Shoot the Works will be the 
second Scotch n Soda production 
to be staged in the new SnS thea
ter. With a week remaining before 
the opening date, numerous crews 
will attack the Skibo gymnasium 
and slowly convert it into a thea
ter which will be well suited to 
the staging of a musical comedy. 
Huge drapes are to be hung to iso
late the theater from the remain
ing expanse of the gym, large ris
er sections will be set up, and an 
ultra-modern sound system will 
be installed and tested.
Besides being readily availableClioir To Present Varied Program In Tonights Concert
The Cameron Choir will sing at 
one of Dr. Marshall Bidwells con
certs in Carnegie Music Hall, on 
Tuesday, April 28.
The performance, at which the 
choir will sing three groups of 
numbers, will start at 8:15 p.m. 
with a few selections by Dr. Bidwell, eminent Pittsburgh organ
ist, and continue with alternate 
choral an dorgan music.
Richard L. Camp, director of 
the chorus, and Dale S. Alexy, 
student director, will share the 
conducting duties.
Hendrik Andriessens Magniflcant, new to Pittsburgh audi
ences, and Haydns Great and 
Glorious will be featured on the 
choral program.
The concert is free to the pub
lic; doors open at 7:45 p.m.
to all on campus, this theater pro
vides all the necessities and com
forts for both the audience and 
cast of Scotch n Soda.
SnS Has Many 
Noted Alumni
School Activity Offers
Valuable Experience
As one of the oldest continuous 
activities on campus, Scotch n 
Soda has developed quite a list of 
alumni, many of whom are still 
connected with the theater. A 
quick run-down of the SnS greats 
shows the excellent training 
which the Club affords.
Richard Hoch  with Charlie 
Spivaks hand 
Alex Segalbest TV director 
1951-52
Fraternities and Sororities
Open an Account and Get
YOUR 10% DISCOUNTSOAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 FORBES STREET
NS4 .2( n,aL
In 
Photographic 
Equ;pment and Supplies
LibertyPhoto
Supply
sC dihUhI i D Uth KSSa.G
C,uLe LrA,KCpL,C
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10
LrA,KCpL,Ca
All Kind* u Low Cs29G%M
AmericanTypewrilerCo. 
dd KSSa.G (o. 1-1019
Convenient Parking
Kent State Team 
Wins First Place 
In Debate Tourney
Ohios Kent State debaters lit
erally plowed their way to victory 
in the third Tartan Debate Tour
ney on Saturday, April 18.
Despite the snows, 18 of the top 
teams , in this area participated in 
the all day event, annually spon
sored by coach Richard Oswants 
Tech Debate team.
The swii'l of Kiltie pipers who 
marched into the banquet with the 
trophy proved fascinating to the 
100 guests, and added an extra 
touch of drama to the presenta
tion of awards.
Kenyon of Ohio took second in 
the event, and Penn States wom
en placed third. In copping first 
prize, Kent State earned the high
est point average yet scored in the 
tourney.
As host school, Carnegie had no 
team entered. Local debating ac
tivities ended with one of CITs 
better years in some time, cul
minating with second place in the 
state finals.
Gloria Bergmansalesgirl on 
Wilkins amateur hour 
David Crantzbusiness man
ager, Pittsburgh Playhouse 
G. Woodwriter of two Pitts
burgh Playhouse produc
tions
James Trittiposet designer 
for ABC TV 
Bill Thurnhurst  South Pa
cific cast 
A1 Lehmanpresent instruc
tor in CIT drama depart
ment and faculty advisor to 
SnS
Bob Challenerhead of drama 
d e p a rtment, Transylvania 
college
Bill MacDonald and M. Muller
cast of Gentlemen Prefer 
Blondes
Plus many Broadway actors and 
actresses and numerous TV stars.
This years show, Shoot the 
Works, is being directed by Car
olyn Jenkins and Frank Bollinger. 
A1 Lehman, of the drama faculty, 
is the faculty adviser. The entire 
operation is under the direction of 
the Scotch n Soda executive board 
which is composed ofJerry Ad
ler, president and co-ordinator; 
John Tancill, business manager; 
John Zurosky, musical director; 
and Irving Shechter and Fred Sonnenberg, publicity.
Mitzi Cottle, star of Good 
Heavens, and Joe Snyder wrote 
the music for Shoot the Works, 
and Bob Levin, Herb Gardner, 
and Ronald Friedman wrote the 
script.
Roving Student Alchemist Faces 
Taxing Fraternal Decision
By John J. John, Jr., as told to R. Durstine
Although some of the more calloused activities hounds in the 
reading public may scoff; it seems to me, as a poor student of the 
unnatural sciences, that some days are more trying than others, 
and that the cares of the world pile up on prescribed dates.
Last Thursday was such a day.*------------------------------------------------------------------
I spent the morning in class, study
ing the secrets of transmutation, 
following which I indulged in a 
heaping dish of Spanish rice in
and other succulent delicacies such 
as only fraternity men can fully 
appreciate.
Following dinner, a . fatherly 
Skibo. After I had eaten of the 1 hand was placed on my shoulder, 
rice and seen the rest crawl off j and a tall individual asked me if 
the plate and onto the table, I left j j was interested in attending a
! party Saturday. Remembering my 
pleasant experiences at the last
the cafeteria and headed for the 
library.
Bachelors and Couples
As I approached, several dozen ! BTO social function, I accepted, on 
freshmen were seen outside the j provision that I be provided, free 
door, busily fastening cleats on j charge, with female companiontheir shoes in preparation for their I s^ip.
march through the library beMy friend said he thought this 
tween classes. could be arranged, and promised
I brushed past this group and to check. with a number of his re
entered. The room was filled with ! male friends to see if any had 
bachelor students studying, and ! dates for Saturday that they were 
couples pretending to read magaj interested in breaking. Then tie 
zines. As for myself, I had intend1 turned to me with great dignity, 
ed to curl up for an hour or so The Upper Room
with the 1948 US Statistical AbCome upstairs with me, he 
stract (Im a little behind in my ; said, I think a couple of the feireading), to brush up on current ! lows would like to talk,with you. 
affairs. j How he knew that they wanted
An Invtation this, I could not fathom. But I
But no sooner had I seated myfollowed him to the second floor, 
self at a table than a familiar fig| There, in a darkened room, sat 
ure came into view. I recognized j several persons in grey flannel 
it at once as a fraternity man. He coaft and unpressed trousers. One 
was in an extremely friendly j of them bade me be seated; anmood, which meant only one thing 
he was on the prowl. I put my 
guard up mentally, chatted with 
him a few minutes, and gratefully 
accepted ihs invitation to dinner. 
Even with the Scots helpful cullinary hints, I have not had much 
to eat since my recent financial
other offered me a cigarette; while 
a third prepared to orate on the 
blessings of fraternities in general, 
and of BTO in particular, which, 
it seems, is the most economical, 
scholarly, friendly, active house on 
campus.
,1+,. ___, . i I was interested to learn thesedifficulties, and any free meal is thinss
welcome.
Following his instructions, I ar
rived at 5:50 at the stately portals 
of the Beta Theta Omega house. 
Fceding time was approaching, and 
scores of hungry forms were mill
ing about the dining room door. 
A few of them left the pack for a 
moment to mention that they did 
not believe they had met me yet, 
but for the most part they were 
intent on listening for the call to 
dinner.
Fatherly Hand
Suddenly the dining room door 
burst open, the mass surged in
ward, and I was swept to a table 
which was groaning under the 
weight of severa1 dry porkchops
A Great Decision
When the lecture was concluded, 
I was invited to join their group, 
following of course a period of 
pledgeship in which I would serve 
as general handyman for the house.
I was speechless. Somehow I 
had never envisioned myself as a 
member of one of these groups. 
But still these people seemed hap
py, and almost convinced that their 
state was one of great blessing. I 
requested time to think it over, 
and left.
I am still thinking it over, it be
ing a great decision. What to do 
I do not know; here is a problem 
for the Carnegie Plan.
5854 FORBES STREETSQUIRREL HILLHAzel 1-6883
SAVE!!
DURING OUR SEMI-ANNUAL
Floor Model Sale
MANY ITEMS YOU HAVE BEEN WANTING
Now Reduced from 10% to 50%
 CAMERAS - SLIDE PROJECTORS - MOVIE CAMERAS
 METERS - TRIPODS - SCREENS - GADGET BAGS
 OTHER ITEMS TOO NUMEROUS TO MENTION
Sale Starts Saturday, April 25th
Open Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Till 9 P. M.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 28, 1953
EditorialV
Our Mote,
Scots Beam
For the second week in a row, our mail
box has yielded up a complaint for Carnegies 
sometimes striving, but always mediocre va
riety magazine, the Scot.
Since this paper was bold enough two 
weeks ago to answer in good faith an edit
orial in one of the Scots spasmodic issues, we 
have been deluged with criticism, witticism, 
and just plain abuse from them for our stand.
In an attempt to be fair in this issue, we 
have printed these attacks, unfair though 
they may have been, and have attempted to 
answer them to the best of our ability, with
out stooping to such unbelievable depths as 
has the Scot editor.
But it is not our purpose or desire to bore 
the public until the end of this year with the 
petty gripes of a few irresponsible Scot editors, 
who are in their posts because no one else 
wanted the jobs they received. We hope to 
fill future Tartan issues with better things.
But in one final attempt to breathe rea
son into what has heretofore been nothing 
but an irrational and one sided assault at this 
paper and its work, we would like to spend 
a few lines discussing campus journalism in 
general, and the repeated and unbearable 
transgressions of the Scot in general. ; -------------------------
It is a good idea for student editors to stop in their labors 
from time to time and consider the functions of their publi
cations. To what extent should a paper or magazine enter
tain; serve as a bulletin board for coming events; act as offi
cial organ for the Administration; or express student opinion? 
Doubtless these things are all important in the activities of 
a paper such as the Tartan, and some of them are vital to 
the operation of other publications as well.
So we must decide what we should offer to the student body 
to serve it best, and to what extent each feature should take up 
space in our publications.
Sometimes these decisions are wrong, but they must never
theless be made to the best of the ability of the individuals in
volved.
Unfortunately however, we must report that the de
cisions of the Scot in such matters seems invariably wrong, 
even beyond reasonable limits of error. Without fail, this ma
gazine has failed in its attempts at humor, art, literature.
It seems likely that those few who do invest a quarter 
in the Scot do so because their names appear as staff mem
bers, and so therefore they wish to send a copy home to the 
folks. This is a worth motive, of course, but hardly indica
tive of much quality on the part of the Scot.
But instead of spending his time to good advantage, and turn
ing his talents to the much needed improvement of this improverished (both financially and quality wise) magazine, the Scot 
editor choses to entertain himself by insulting established pub
lication rather than improving his own charge.
He is hard at work plucking the mote from our eye, 
while completely impervious to the beam in his own.
We humbly suggest that a little introspection would do 
a world of good for these people, who are not blithely 
tearing apart others while remaining completely ignorant of 
their own glaring imperfections.
Docik
Great Mind at Work
Squelched
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. TELEPHONE: 
SCheniey 1-4557; after hours SCheriley 1-9846; for advertising and subscriptions 
HAzel 1-5360. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and ex
amination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 
13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ............................................................................................................ Dick Durstine
Business Manager ..................................................................-................................... Jerry Seiner
Managing Editor ............................................................................................................. Wilson Sick
News Editor ................................................... ................................................................ Jo Forsythe
Sports Editor ...................................................................%.......................................... Frank Fegley
Personnel Manager .............................................................................................. Paul Carmichael
Features EditorLin Smith. Copy EditorA1 Susia. Advertising ManagerVic 
Shiry. Assistant Business ManagerStan Rosenberg. Circulation ManagerDon 
Gross Photography EditorBarbara Toia. Assistant Sports EditorTed Reuther. 
ReportersJoan Cummerton, Jane Sunder, Marilyn Seiner, Bill Minkler, June Sochatoff, Pat Maue, Mollie Rudy, Sally Clark, George Barnes Bob Livingston, Car
men Villella. Sports ReportersEdward Feigenbaum Jack Alexander, Dick Eppler, 
Jim Gore. Art StaffCarolyn Copp PhotographersDon Hand, Myron Lewis, Dick 
Wolfe. Features StaffAndy Stedry, Judy Storch, Joe Szewc, Tom McConomy. 
TypistElaine Nord. Headline StaffVan Andersen, Pat Naugle, Dan Byers. 
Make-ap StaffEllroy Wildhaber, Don Wildman, Bill Hurley. Advertising Staff 
Ronald Greenwaid, Mimi Stem, Joan Newman. Circulation StaffRalph Antonito.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., 
College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription 
1 .10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on October 4. 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879 Accepted for mailing P. special 
gate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925.
Member of th Associated College Press, Intercollegiate
We regret to announce that the article 
appearing in the Tartan April 1 concerning 
the recent drama department production 
Henry IV, was not only the first but the last
Letters
Inane Antics
Editor, the Tartan:
It is with 'resignation that we take the 
trouble to write this letter to the Tartan, 
for it seems futile to continue trying to ex
plain our arguments for King of Hearts to 
as narrow a mind as yours. The remark in 
the absurd editors note appended to our 
letter of last week. We are not sure just 
who wrote this letter . . . and we do not wish 
to know, seems pitifully characteristic of 
the Tartan and its editor, a notorious news
paper calumnist. It would seem that there 
are many things which the Tartan does not 
wish to know, judging from the general 
caliber of its articles. People with their 
heads in the sand are likely to get kicked.
The Tartan had best resume the cover
age of elections in the Carnegie Bingo club 
or such instead of getting into water over the 
head of the editor, who, by his own admission 
in last weeks editorial, is destitute of ideas. 
It is not the wish or desire of the Scot 
to have this become a battle of personalities, 
though obviously we stand to lose nothing 
in such a comparison.
Be that as it may, until the Tartan ceases 
to tilt at windmills, it shall be the duty and 
pleasure of this magazine to foil at every 
turn the inane antics of your weekly rag.
Sincerely,
The Scot.
such student review to appear. The Adminis
tration has chosen to deem such articles unfit 
to print in the student newspaper for reasons 
too involved to state here.
We do not agree with their stand, but 
must accept their judgement, for they have 
the power to make such decisions, and the 
power to enforce them.
WRCT Has New Staff; 
RohlandHeads Station
At the Saturday, April 25 meeting of the staff of WRCT Radio 
Carnegie Tech, the following were elected to executive posts for 
the semester: station manager, Clyde L. Rohland; business manager, 
Goerge Andes; program director, Walter Stanwick; production mana
ger, James Lacey III, Special#---------------------------------------------------------------
Programs Director, Philip Stein; 
Publicity Manager, William Ven
able; Recording Manager, Dorotry Morgan; Advertising Mana
ger, Edward Bigelow; Chief of 
Audio Engineering, James Boyden; 
Chief of Radio Engineering, Jan 
Hall; Chief of Announcing, Karl 
Konnerth.
The Station Manager, Rohland, 
Ennounced the appointment of Mr. 
Jesse L. Erhard to the position of 
recording secretary and special 
assistant to the station manager.
Mr. Rohland also announced 
that the policy of WRCT next year 
will be the same as this yearthe 
broadcasting of classical and semiclassical music. Some live shows 
will be added, however. More stu
dents will be needed next year 
than ever before, Mr. Rohland 
said. Many new improvements are 
planned for the station, and the 
hope of the staff is that WRCT 
will have a better year next year 
than it has had in the past.
Carnival Program
A tentative program for the 
1953 Spring Carnival has been 
released by the Spring Carni
val committee, Dick Franklin, 
chairman. The program is as 
follows:
Thursday, May 7, 1953 
4:30 p.m.Midway opens
Friday, May 8, 1953 
8:00 a.m.Buggy design 
judgement 
9:00 a.m.Sweepstakes 
1:00 p.m.Coronation and 
call day 
3:00 p.m.Float parade 
9:00 p.m.Friday dance
Saturday, May 9, 1953 
10:30 a.m.Buggy finals 
1:00 p.m.D r a m a dept.
cricket match 
3:00 p.m.Sorority competitition
9:00 p.m.Coronation ball 
11:00 p.m.Intermission and 
awards
WRCT
Schedule
Tuesday, April 28
6:00Lucky Strike News
6:15Your Navy Show
6:30Dinner Music
7:00Music For Study
8:00The RCA Victor Red Seal Hour
9:00Lacey
10:00Phi Mu Alpha Hour 
11:00Sports and Music 
11:15Final Edition
Wednesday, April 29
6:00Lucky Strike News 
6:15Guest Star 
6:30Dinner Music 
7:00RCA Victor Opera Night 
10:00Musical Miscellany 
11:00Sports Round-up 
11:15Final Edition
Thursday, April 30
6:00Lucky Strike News 
6:15Proudly We Hail 
6:45Dinner Music 
7:00Masterworks from France 
7:30The RCA Victor Hour 
8:00The Gilbert and Sullivan Hour 
10:00Lacey 11:00Sports Round-up 
11:15Final Edition
Friday, May 1
6:00Lucky Strike News 
6:15Paris Star Time 
6:45Dinner Music 
7:00Music Extraordinary 
9:00The RCA Victor Red Seal Hour 
10:00Dream Time 
11:00Sports Round-up 
11:15Final Edition
Sunday, May 3
1:00Recorded Music For Sunday 
3:00Sunday Afternoon and Music 
5:00Lucky Strike News 
5:15Music
5:30Serenade In Blue 5:45Adventures In Research 
6:00The WRCT Symphony Hour 
9:00Music That Lives For You 
10:00The Red Seal Hour 
11:00Sports Round-up 
11:15Final Edition
Monday, May 4
6:00Lucky Strike News 
6:15The Hodge Podge 8:00The RCA Victor Red Seal Hour 
9:00Enosupo 
10:00Dream Time 11:00Sports Round-up 
11:15Final Edition
Tickets
Tickets for the dances of 
Spring Carnival will goon 
sale tomorrow in Skibo. They 
will be on sale from 11:30 
a.m. to 1:30 p.m. The price is 
4.90 for a ticket to both dances.
Bethlehem Steel Is 
Sponsor Of Unique 
Grants At Tech
Carnegie Tech has been select
ed as one of the 45 institutions to 
be included under the Bethlehem 
Steel corporations new plan of 
financial aid to education. This 
plan, which seems to be an en
tirely new form of industrial aid 
to colleges and universities, pro
vides payment to the school from 
which a man graduates rather 
than a scholarship to the man 
himself.
Tfhe plan consists of grants of 
$3000 for each man graduated from 
the 45 selected institutions who is 
selected for Bethlehems graduate 
training program. In this way, the 
payment is an aid to the colleges 
to turn out more and better men 
for the industry, which are much 
needed, according to the sponsors 
of the plan.
The normal. take of Bethlehem 
Steel into its program each year 
is 100, so the proposed grants 
should prove significant to the in
stitutions involved.
E. G. Grace, chairman of Beth
lehem Steel, in announcing the 
plan, expressed the unusual na
ture of the plan by saying, it 
provides for financial assistance 
to the selected colleges on the 
principal of value received. If our 
industrial progress is to continue, 
more and more educated men are 
going to be needed, and it is im
portant that the colleges be in P 
position to supply them.
And this is what they are try
ing to do.
The Midway
Seven Shopping Days Left

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 28, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPace 
Tartan Thinclads Defeat Grove City
Carman Wins Tivo Events, Sets 
Record; Wills Takes Two Firsts
By Jim Gore
In their first dual meet of the season, the Carnegie Tech Thin
clads romped to an easy 82-49 victory over their opponents from 
Grove City. The Tartans captured first place in all the running 
events with the exception of the 220 low and 120 high hurdles which
the Grovers Bob Barron swept. ?----------------------------------------------------------
Carman Sets Record
Bob Carman and Bill Wills led 
the Scot cindermen by each earn
ing two first place ribbons. Car
man took the mile and two mile 
events, setting a new Grove City 
field record of 4:32.2 in the mile, 
while freshman Wills was the first 
man to reach the tape in the 220 
and 440.
The Grovers showed a strong 
team competing for the field 
events, taking four out of six firsts.
However, coupling the Tech vic
tories in the broad jump and pole 
vault by Hughmanick and Bate
man, along with the points piled 
up by our runners, the opposition 
was in no position to threaten 
Techs chances of winning.
Water Logged Field
The meet was held under what 
could be considered, at the least, 
adverse conditions, as there was a 
drizzling rain continually falling 
on the already water-logged track.
Considering this fact, the winning 
times were exceptionally good, 
especially the record-breaking ef
fort of Bob Carman.
Looking at the particular events, 
the Tartans came through with 
two complete sweeps in the 440 
and mile while the Grovers gained 
ten points by capturing the three 
places in the shot put.
100-yd.1Bell, Tech; 2Buckham,
GC; 3Pool, Tech. Time:10.6.
220-yd.1Wills, Tech; 2Bell, Tech;
8Buckham, GC. Time:23.4.
440-yd.1'Wills, Tech; 2Englehart,Tech; 3Lasker, Tech. Time:52.2.
880-yd.1Gillies and Coyle, Tech 
(tie); 3Baer, GC. Time2:06.
Mile1Carman, Tech; 2McDonald,TTcch* ^__ni/io TonVi Timo__9
2Irwin, GC; 3Smith, Tech. Time :16.1.
Javelin1Pinch, GC; 2Bateman, 
Tech* 3Willoughby, GC. Distance 
154' Vs".
Shot Put1Coccia, GC; 2Schmidt, 
GC; 3McLeod, GC. Distance42' 1".
Discus1McLeod, GC; 2Karcher, 
Tech; 3Coccia, GC. Distance107'io y2".
Pole Vault1Bateman, Tech; 2 
Blumfelt, Tech; 3Bennett, GC. Height 
11'.
High Jump1Irwin, GC; 2Lasker, 
Tech; Szewc, Tech. Height5' 9".
Broad Jump1Hughmanick, Tech; 2 
OShaughnessy, Tech; 3Bailey, GC. 
Distance18' 4Vi".
Mile Relay1Tech (Englehart, Las
ker, Coyle, and Giles). Time3:36.6.Scots End Spring Drills With 13-6 Victory Over Pitt
By Jim Gore
With the Tartan football victory 
over Pitt last Friday, the annual 
spring practice came to a close. 
In general, head Coach Eddie 
Baker expressed a belief that next 
falls squad is in good shape, espe
cially where spirit and fight is con
cerned.
The biggest problem that the 
coaching staff have had, and will 
have to contend with before the 
opening kick-off next September 
26, is a shortage of manpower. A 
big part of last years squad has 
not returned for the coming cam
paign, and as a result there is a 
slight scarcity of material which 
has been chiefly felt in the line. 
With tackles and ends heading the 
list of probable undermanned po
sitions, Dr. Baker is doubtful 
whether he will have enough men 
to fill two complete teams as he 
had planned. He believes, how
ever, that he will be able to field
Tech Tennismen Smash Duquesne By 8-1 Score
Last Saturday, Techs tennis 
team smashed Duquesne on the 
Tartan courts, 8-1, by taking all 
but one match.
Bob Weiderhorn, number one 
man for Tech, came from behind 
to beat the Dukes E. Koscelnik 
4-6, 7-5, 8-6. Jim Miller took over 
D. Koscelnik 5T7, 9-7, 6-3, while 
Fred Khorey beat Allen Glaser 
6-3 and 7-5 to take the visitors 
only match.
Don Tsiang set down Curry of 
Duquesne 6-3, 3-6, 6-1, as Mahlon 
Saibel shut out Ponta 6-0, 6-1. 
Don Duncklee won his match with 
Mitchell 6-0, 6-1.
In the doubles, Wiederhorn and 
Miller beat Duquesnes Koscelink 
brothers 6-1, 6-1. Glaser and Giltwo equally potent backfields.
When the cool weather comes 
again, Carnegie Tech should be 
able to field a squad, barring ex
cessive injuries or cases of that 
malady known as scholastic in
eligibility, which will bring credit 
to CIT.
Bob Weiderhorn, number one Tech man, serves to Duquesnes 
E. Koscelnik. Wiederhorn won the match 4-6, 7-5, 8-6.
lette set down Khorey and Curry 
6-3, 6-4, while Duncklee and Sai
bel trounced Mitchel and Ponta 
6-0, 6-0.
After such a powerful start, 
Coach Frank Moses may well expevt his second straight unde
feated season.
Results of Mondays match with 
Bethany were not available at 
press-time. The next home match 
is May 13 with Pitt.
The most dashing 
men on campus wear 
Arrow Gordon Oxfords
McDonnell Aircraft Corporation
GRADUATE STUDY PLANFORMASTER OF DOCTOR OFSCIENCESCIENCE
DEGREE
THE PLAN IN BRIEF
PURPOSEThe purpose of the Plan is to assist B.S. Engineering Grad
uates in obtaining their advanced degrees while employed in indus
try, gaining valuable experience, and contributing to the national de
fense effort.
ELIGIBILITYCandidates for the Plan must have a B.S. degree in one 
of the following fields:
AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING
CIVIL ENGINEERINGPHYSICS
ARROW
  ---------------------------------?
__SHIRTS  III  UNukMWKAR  HANOIURCMlSf*  HOM* HIKT1----- 
PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITY-Washington University of St. Louis, 
Missouri, will participate in this Plan, effective September 1953. Can
didates must be U. S. Citizens and meet the entrance requirements of 
this university. Tuition will be paid by McDonnell Aircraft Corpora
tion.
COMPENSATIONCandidates will work part time during the Plan, 
but will be compensated according to their demonstrated ability on 
the same basis as full time engineers and can earn approximately 85% 
of a normal years salary.
SELECTION OF CANDIDATESCandidates will be selected by offi
cials of McDonnell Aircraft Corporation and Washington University. 
To be considered for his Plan, candidates must have submitted a for
mal application and a transcript of grades by 30 May 1953. For more 
information about the Plan write to:
TECHNICAL PLACEMENT SUPERVISOR 
BOX 516, ST. LOUIS 3, MISSOURI
MiDONNELL
Arrow Gordon Dover: 
button-down classic, $4.50.

---------------------------------------------------

Page fiCARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 28, 1953
Soccer Champs 
Members oi ihe Obelisks soccer team gleam after downing Sigma 
Nu 1-9 to take the all school championship.
IM Softball Season Commences; 
Obelisks Win Soccer Crown
Defenders Encounter Difficulty In Opening 
Softball Play; Obelisks Top SN, 1-0
By Jack Alexander
SOFTBALL
The first day of competition seemed to indicate that this years 
intramural softball leagues will be better than last years. Two of 
last years league champions, KS and ASCE went down to defeat 
and the all-school champion BSR encountered difficulty with a 
spirited Graduate team in the* 
game that was called because of 
darkness at the end of ten innings.
The score stood at 6-6 at the end 
of the regulation seven innings 
and neither team was able to put 
across a run in the period before 
darkness set in.
ATO easily defeated ASCE 7-3 
behind the four-hit pitching of 
Dick Webster. In recording their 
first win the ATO team indicated 
that they have considerable 
strength not only in the way of 
pitching but in hitting as well.
The ASME defeated KS in a 
hitting exhibition by the score of 
15-14. The lack of good pitching 
was displayed by both teams and 
fielding was ragged.
SOCCER 
The Obelisks captured the soc
cer championship by defeating SN 
1-0 in a sudden death double 
overtime game. After four regular 
quarters and an overtime, Bob 
French scored the only goal of 
the game at 2:36 of the sudden 
death period. Tom Craig, goalie 
for the Obelisks, turned in a ster
ling defensive performance while 
Cunningham and French carried 
the offensive burden. This game 
was probably the best ever play
ed in the intramural program.
Several of the former varsity soceer players claimed that over-all 
play was of a better caliber than 
was seen in previous varsity com
petition.
The champion Obelisks will 
meet Pitts intramural champs to
morrow for the all-city booters 
crown.
BADMINTON
George Bushey and Kaye 
Thompson represented the Tech 
intramural department in compe
tition with men from the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh. In doubles 
Tech won 15-11, 15-8, while in 
singles Thompson was defeated 
15-11, 15-8 and Bushey won 14- 
16, 15-12, and 15-12.
BRIDGE 
Bridge entries have been ac
cepted and competition will start 
in the near iuture.
SWIMMING 
Last Thursday, Techs intra
mural swimming champs went 
down before Pitt, 36-30. Through
out the meet the score went back 
and forth from the Panthers to the 
Tartans.
The Forbes street swimmers 
grabbed the victory by placing 
first and second in the final event 
the individual medley, to over
come a one point deficit.
WAA Announces Award Winners; Installs Officers
Fifty-five people attended the 
Womans Athletic Association an
nual awards banquet held last 
Monday evening at the Carnegie 
Union.
The feature events of the even
ing were the installation of new 
officers and the announcements of 
award winners.
The officers for the coming year 
will be:
President, Marie Herre; VicePresident, Scotty Hadjis; Secre
tary, Sally Mair; Awards Secre
tary, Diane Farrington; Treasurer, 
Jean Ward; Board Members, Joan 
Veloff, Sharon Lease, Mary Balch, 
Janet Bishop, and Janet Wilkens.
The award winners were: Blaz
er, Marilyn Freed, Marie Herre, 
Nancy Sklar. Carnegie C, 
Gretchen Arnold, Norma D\ls, Cor
nelia Dunn, Jean Ward, Peggy 
Heatley, Marie Herre, Sally Mair, 
June Wiles, Pat Miller, and Doris 
Sopko. Numerals: Mary Balch Annabelle Becker, Janet Bishop, Elea
nor Bruno, Janet Buvinger, Bar
bara Casey, Audrey Companion,
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
For Better 
Dry Cleaning..
1-HOUR
SERVICE
CampusCleaners
UhMY NS4x(v a.G
ROUGH, DRY 
LAUNDRY and 
FINISHED LAUNDRY 
?
12 Inch
c,Lel CRl,Ca 
NC,, .S eHH 
0GpGLG a.-(J.v
Sports Staff
The TARTAN Sports staff 
will meet Sunday, May 3, at 
1:00 p.m. in the Carnegie Un
ion. All staff members are 
urged to be present. Anyone 
interested in joining the sports 
department for the coming 
year is cordially invited to at
tend.
Coming Events
Tennis
May 2............W & J................Away
May 6. .. Westminster .... Away 
Golf
May 4........ Duquesne ..... Home
May 6............. Pitt ...............Away
Track
April 29. ... Geneva ...........Home
May 2...........Allegheny..........Home
May 7_____ W & J ..........Home
lpLLl, ceu ku LO, 0ecARanb npnl,C
Lynda Cooper, Norma Dils, Corne
lia Dunn, Ann Dwinelle, Lenore 
Elwell, Diane Farrington, Joanne 
Gastmeyer, Norma Hassel, Janey 
Wilkens, Scotty Hadjis, Peggy 
Heatley, Mary Kotaras, Sharon 
Lease, Betty Mekis, Barbara 
Moore, Dottie Poole, Ruth Rand, 
Doris Sopko, Annalease Singer, 
Ann St. John, Lynn Thayer, Pitsa 
Theodore, Jean Treharne, Joan 
Veloff, and Irene Warne.
Men, we lost a great game; th other team just got all th 
breaks, thats all.
TO GRADUATES IN
ENGINEERING 
PHYSICAL SCIENCES 
ARTS, SOCIAL SCIENCES 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
All unite of the Bell Telephone System 
play parts in the satisfying and rewarding 
job of making this country a nation of 
neighbors.
The telephone operating companies and 
Long Lines provide local and Long Dis
tance telephone service that makes it pos
sible to reach most everyone in this country 
and many people in foreign countries. 
Bell Telephone Laboratories invents and
designs and Western Electric manufac
tures and distributes the equipment that 
makes service better year after year.
The Sandia Corporation, a subsidiary of 
Western Electric, is concerned with the 
military application of atomic energy.
The chart below may help you in con
sidering how your education has prepared 
you for a starting job with one of the Bell 
Companies.
COLLEGE MAJOR
Engineering
Aeronautical
Chemical
Civil
Electrical
Industrial
Mechanical
Metallurgical
Other degrees
Physical Sciences
Chemistry
Mathematics
Metallurgy
Physics
Arts and Social Sciences
Economics
Humanities
Other degrees
Business Administration
Accounting . .
Industrial Management
Marketing
Statistics
TELEPHONE 
COMPANIES & 
LONG LINES
WESTERN
ELECTRIC
COMPANY
BELL
TELEPHONE
LABORATORIES
SANDIA
CORPORATION
If you would like to know more about Bell System employment, your Placement Officer will be glad to help you.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 28, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
Friuli
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor .............................................................................................................. Victor Sabol
Reporters.............Anna Mae Legosh, Irma Mascaro, Margaret Schaefer,
George Schussler.
Plans For Engineers 
Banquet Are Complete
May 2, the date of the evening school engineers banquet, is 
about four days away and we want to warn everyone to hurry and 
get his ticket. The Georgian room of the Webster Hall hotel has a 
limited capacity and at the rate ticket sales have been going, there is 
little doubt that it will not be#-----------------------------------------------------------------
Phi Gamma Phi 
Sorority Takes 11 
Into Membership
On April 19, Phi Gamma Phi 
Sorority accepted the following 
new members at a formal initia
tion at Carnegie Union: Bernice 
Cieciera, Lois Conley, Norene 
Conley, Mary Edith Gray, Peggy 
Ann Hughes, Gerda Ann Rohm, 
Virginia Ross, Merrie K. Auld, 
Eileen Wolf, Lana Knezac, and 
Jessie Johnson.
Pledge Mistress Rose Marie Allias conducted the initiation. 
Speakers included Mrs. Robert 
Schwarz, sponsor, and Mary Alice 
Peterson, president.
The tea which followed was un
der the supervision of Jean Woods 
assisted by Ellen Gonter. Decora
tions included a large locomotive 
and train filled with white carna
tions and heater. Small trains fill
ed with mints and nuts were plac
ed on each table.
filled to capacity! If no one has 
approached you yet, hurry down 
to Mr. McKelways office or see 
any Evening Student Council 
member and make your reserva
tion.
Arranging Program
The program has been arrang
ed and is really too good to miss. 
Here are a few of the main fea
tures itemized for you:
(!) TimeMay 2 at 6:30 p.m.
(2) Place-Webster Hall ho
telGeorgian Room.
(3) Main speakerThe Hon
orable David L. Lawrence, 
Mayor of Pittsburgh.
(4) Entertainment  fast mov
ing show furnished by 
Ann Harvey.
(5) Suveniers  A whole bag 
full of novelties to take 
home with you.
(6) Door PrizesMore than 50 
gifts and 50 consolation 
prizes await the winners.
Winter Is Gone;
It Is Spring And 
Time For Dreams
There comes every year about 
this time a complete transforma
tion in most normal peopleeven 
Tech evening students. Its evident 
in the budding trees and bushes, 
the vivid mantel of green the 
earth takes on, the incessant 
chirping and chattering of our 
feathery friends as they fiy about. 
Yes, its spring. Its really here at 
lastafter a long dreary winter 
has passed away into the un
known.
Its Cold
And how do you feel now? Any 
different from about a month ago? 
Remember how you walked up 
the cut on a cold blistering win
ter day with the wind almost cut
ting your face and the snow 
swirling about you playing a 
game of tag and never stopping. 
ITS COLD! Heat and warmth 
Its so far away! Should you es
cape from the clutches of icy fin
gers, cold toes, stalled motors, 
shoveling sidewalks, and head for 
a distant paradise of blue water, 
80 degree temperatures and a re
freshing Tom Collins?
No, money and the compulsory 
routine of work and school wont 
let you. Oh, had not Adam and 
Eve sinned! One consolation 
winter never lasts too long. In a 
few months you witness the re
birth of spring. First, you are hit 
by a love for everyone and joy in 
everything that we do, even com
ing out to school.
Dreams
But still it would be wonderful 
to shun our immediate responsi
bilities and roam. Any destination 
in mind? No, just any little hike 
through the park, a drive in the 
country, or still better, with all 
the energy you possess, a chair on 
the back porch where you can 
roam in your dreams to far cor
ners of the world without con
suming an ounce of energy.
But, suddenly your dreams are 
shattered by reality! Spring also 
introduces a period of house clean
ing which must be accomplished 
in a few weeksan unpleasant 
task for people hit by the fever.
(7) Special Features  A DE
LICIOUS DINNER.
(8) Prici$4.75 per person.
Now, where else could you get
that for so little? In addition to 
these items, there is also the fact 
that you will meet some of your 
fellow students socially  some 
perhaps for the first time.
All Students Invited
This affair, our 38th annual eve
ning school banquet, is not limit
ed to night school students, but 
we would like to have every night 
school student who plans to at
tend to be sure to be there and to 
bring along his friends. Make up 
a partyyour fellow associates 
from workand reserve a special 
table for the group.
Carnival Notice
This year again, evening school 
classes will be dismissed during 
Spring Carnival festivities. Since 
Friday night, May 9, would ordi
narily be a class night for many 
students, why not come out any
way, leave your books at home,
and enjoy an evening of whole
some fun.
Veterans
Requisitions for books, snpplies, and equipment for the 
spring semester 1953 can not 
be honored by the Book Store 
after May 9, 1953.
To the newer students who need 
more enlightenment on the engi
neers banquet, may we add these 
additional comments. Obviously, 
these fellows are under the im
pression that the engineers ban
quet is a long drawn-out technical 
affair and not much fun. Although 
we do not profess to be steeped in 
long experience, we can say that 
never before in the several years 
that we have attended these ban
quets have we been disappointed.
From beginning to end, these 
affairs have been entertaining to 
the nth degree. If youre inclined 
to be skeptical, ask any of the 
older students on the evening 
school campus and we dare say 
they will all agree that the engi
neers banquet is one you cannot 
afford to miss
 ENGINE AND AIRPLANE CORPORATION
COLEGMLAJ
has excellent opportunities
for COLLEGE GRADUATES
yJ e,CkueRLp0el Dc,0Oeup0el 
,l,0LCkup0 WaLCR0LRCel D ACkfR0Lpku
ENGINEERING
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for 
advancement, and an excellent starting salary await yon at 
Fairchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for. 
We have openings right now for qualified engineers and 
designers in all phases of aircraft engineering; we need 
top-notch men to help us in our long-range military 
program: turning out the famous Cl 19 Flying Boxcar 
and other projects for the U. S. Air Force.
echsdhpa provides paid vacations and liberal health and 
life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week 
as a base. Premium is paid when longer work week is 
scheduled.
_____ pi CUCINI Alte AMfURi CO&PQMTOOfta, ,CmpusmcesfimaADiMm
Oes,CaLkKuo ceCrleuf
... and for your safety
wB .(..yww cK Ul ey4 ag(4. 0Sg(o (JW 
(T HF HP t WJ4P. JW!
Chevrolets improved Velvet-Pressure Jumbo-Drum Brakes give 
maximum stopping power with maximum ease of application
Entirety tAroufA endf/trovfA*
Chevrolet owners have long been con
vinced that they have the safest as well 
as the largest brakes on any low-priced 
car. And that is even more true in 1953.
This year you will find much smoother, 
more responsive brake action ... up to 
23% less pedal pressure ... and a softer, 
more velvety feel of operation.
Realize, too, that here is the only lowpriced car with sturdy Fisher Unisteel 
Construction, Safety Plate Glass in wind
shield and all windows of sedans and 
coupes, extra-easy Power Steering* and 
many other important safety factors, and 
youll understand why owners rate the 
new Chevrolet tops.
Come in; see and drive this thrillingly 
advanced car, and we believe youll place your order now! *Optional at extra KG'D 
Power Steering available on all models. Con
tinuation of standard equipment and trim illus
trated is dependent on availability of material.
MORE PEOPLE BUY CHEVROLETS THAN ANY OTHER CAR!
SEE YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER FOR ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE NEEDS!
Conveniently listed under nAutomobiles in your local classified telephone directory

---------------------------------------------------

Whether you are a seasoned 
player, or one who aspires to 
a better game, put your 
faith in the Spalding rtmnocT 
or the Spalding-made Wright 
& Ditson fcihg jpub
These are the traditional 
favored rackets wherever fast 
tennis is played. Made in 
over-all weights, grip sizes 
and flexibilities, to fit every 
player with custom-like 
accuracy.
They are perfect companions 
to the Twins of Championship 
tennis balls... the Spalding 
and Wright & Ditson.
8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 28, 1953Pi Delta Epsilon Calls 12 Students To Membership
The spring call to membership 
by the Carnegie Chapter of Pi 
Delta Epsilon, national journalism 
honorary, was made Tuesday, 
April 21, when the following stu
dents were initiated into mem
bership: Marguerite B a r b e r i e , 
Andy Companion, Kenneth 
Haynes, Wallace-Hurley, Kenneth 
Luther, Mary Lou Maurhoff, Stan
ford Rosenberg, John Scouller,
Marilyn Seiner, Wilson Sick, An-f 7
drew Stedry, and Theodore Trinkaus. These students were chosen 
on the basis of leadership and 
ability exhibited in their work on 
various campus publications.
At a business meeting held af
ter the initiation, new officers 
were elected for the school year 
1953-54. Those elected were El
mer Veres, president; John Scoul
ler, vice-president; and Marguer
ite Barbary, secretary-'treasurer.
The annual national convention 
of PiDE was held Friday, Satur
day, and Sunday, April 24, 25, 
and 26. Estelle Herlick represent
ed Carnegies chapter at this gath
ering.
SAI Installs 
New Officers
On March 31, Sigma Alpha Iota, 
womens music honorary, installed 
new officers. They are: Carolyn 
Ferguson, president; Edith Starr, 
Vice-president; Marian Hepner, 
secretary; Jane Locklin, treasurer; 
J o Ann S vedberg, corresponding 
ecretary; Dania Dorram, chaplain 
and sergeant at arms; Carol Rosenberger, editor.
Sunday, April 19, Dorothy Ma
lone, Marlen Geier, Marilyn 
Mitchell, and Anne Mick, new 
pledges, will be initiated at 3:00 
p.m. Dorothy Malone is a junior,
Printers
[Continued from page 1] 
enterprise, administration, produc
tion management, graphic arts de
sign, and technical processes. In
troduction of these options would 
require an enrollment somewhere 
between 250 and 300 students, ap
proximately twice the current en
rollment in the department.
No Placement Problem
Such an increase in enrollment 
would ease the acute shortage of 
printing graduates. Currently there 
are five job offers for every man 
who completes the Tech printing 
course. Even during the period of 
highly selective employment from 
1929 to 1937 the department did 
not have a job placement problem.
Approximately 700 degrees have 
been awarded since the depart
ment was established 40 years ago. 
In addition, more than 2500 other 
students have received special 
training in various phases of the 
graphic arts in short term evening 
and summer courses.
Modern Equipment
Of the 48 printing management 
students who graduated from Tech 
last June, 36 now have positions 
with printing plants and publish
ers. The average starting salary 
for these graduates was $350 a 
month.
Within recent years Techs print
ing laboratories have been com
pletely modernized, and older ma
chines haye been replaced by 
newer models. A large amount of 
the laboratory equipment used by 
students has been made available 
through the generosity of machin
ery manufacturers.
and cello major, Marlene Geier, 
Anne Mick, and Marilyn Mitchell 
are sophomores and piano or ed
ucation majors.
Phi Mu Alpha and SAI will give 
an organ recital April 21. Dale 
Alexy, Philip Inman, Marian Hep
ner, Bill Saul, and Morris Stevens 
will play. It will be held in room 
109, in the Fine Arts building at 
8:15 p.m.
UMIiMY 0Ceps aLC,,L 
a02(JH(b diYtMI
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Spring Carnival Committee
The Men Behind the Big Weekend
Carnival[Continued from page 1] 
added such hits as Careless and 
My Last Goodbye, to the hit 
parade. Be Anything is the 
composer-conductors latest re
cording.
The Saturday formal will climax 
the Carnival weekend and put the 
cap on the 53 Circus. Auto bumper 
signs will be available, as long as 
they last, in Skibo at the ticket 
booth free of charge. Those inter
ested are invited to display them in 
honor of the CIT gala weekend 
Spring Carnival Circus.
Veterans
Requisitions for books, sup
plies, and equipment for the 
spring semester 1953 can not 
be honored by the Book Store 
after May 9, 1953.
New Lecture Hall Planned To Honor Dean Mary Breed
Plans for a new assembly hall at 
MMCC are well under way. Re
modeled room 103 will be a memo
rial to Mary Bidwell Breed, Dean 
of the College from 1913 until her 
retirement in 1929.
In appreciation of Miss Breeds 
efforts to advance the welfare of 
the school and its alumnae, the 
Pittsburghs Womens Clan has 
appointed a committee to collect 
money for this purpose. The esti
mated cost is $18,000. Tech has 
agreed to contribute up to $10,000 
of the total cost.
The school will supervise the 
actual work and is ready to start 
at once. It is expected that the 
hall will be ready for dedication 
;at the 1953 Homecoming.
Thiel To Cooperate 
With Tech On 3-2
By The Drain-Os
THE WEAKER SEX? Are you
tired, run down,' weak at the 
knees? If so, go back to the Bloodmobile. Yes, go back and get your 
blood. We mean the women in this 
wonderful project. Orchids to the 
weaker sex!
WANT ADDue to the plan
ned razing of said living quarters 
(the barracks), a pied piper (not 
a pickled piper) is needde to lead 
the dwelling vermin (mice) from 
these living quarters in the sum
mer of 1953. Salary includes three 
used TB buttons and a wellthumbed Marilyn Monroe calen
dar.
NEWS FLASHNew class offi
cers have been elected. Never be
fore have so many been elected 
from so few by so few.
SKIBO CONSUMER REPORT 
Sales in Skibo coffee took an un
usual leap this week. Though the 
obvious reason would seem to be 
the unusual cold weather, this is 
not the case. This phenomenon re
sulted when the doors of Skibo 
were locked during the air raid 
and the students were forced to 
remain in the local beanery.
LADIES DAY AT FORBES 
FIELDWhat has suddenly hap
pened to the women of Tech? On 
a nice, sunny afternoon (and there 
are so many in Pittsburgh?) one 
can usually see a safari leaving the 
school to see the Pirates (of all 
teams). Lifes greatest desire has 
changed from a fraternity pin to 
a home run ball hit by Ralph 
Kiner.
FIVE YEARS FOR COUNTER
FEITERSTwo University of Chi
cago students who turned counter
feiters in order to make money to 
go through school were sentenced 
last month to five years apiece in 
federal prison. They have another 
week to appeal the sentence.
Thiel college and Carnegie Tech will cooperate in a five-year 
educational program leading to both liberal arts and engineering 
or science degrees.
Announcement of the cooperative program, known as the 3-2 
plan, was made jointly today by^
President Frederic B. Irvin of !
Thiel and President J. C. Warner
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
cf Carnegie.
The program will go into effect 
next September 1953.
In the plan, students will take 
three years of liberal arts with a 
major in science at Thiel, then will 
transfer to Carnegie for two years 
of engineering or science. At the 
end of five years, they will receive 
bachelor of arts degrees from Thiel 
and bachelor of science degrees 
from Carnegie.
Your I.D. CARD Means15% off?
Lpc, aOkA
 Watch Repairs
 Lighters  Gifts
 Watches  Jewelry
 Identification Bracelets 
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
Advantages
With the announcement today, 
Thiel becomes the 21st liberal arts 
college to join with Carnegie in 
the cooperative program.
According to Carnegie officials, 
the plan is being expanded because 
it has been found to have two ma
jor advantages:
1. It gives a student a chance 
to build a broad liberal arts 
foundation before begin
ning a technical program.
2. It gives a student who is 
undecided as to whether to 
study engineering or sci
ence, some college experi
ence which may help him 
make a choice.
Thiel, a privately controlled intitution affiliated with the Evan
gelical Lutheran church, has an 
average enrollment of 525 stu
dents.
University Recreation
BOWLING
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
HIRI'S a sad Lobster tale. Sheedy was really in hot water. His 
girl kept saying, 'The Maine thing I dont like about you is the 
way you pot your hair! Havent you red about Wildroot CreamBoil Hair Tonic? Non-alcoholic. Relieves annoying dryness. 
Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail 
Test Perfect for you claws you ,need Lanolin on that watersoaked hair, Paul got Wildroot Cream-Oil and now he shore 
looks slick In fact, hes in salad with every girl on campus. So 
if you're net-tied about yout messy hair, butter shell out 29* at 
any toilet goods counter for a bottle or tube of Wildroot CreamOil, "Your Hairs Best Friend. Ask for it at your barbers, an
tenna to one youll be tickled pink!
of 151 So Harris HtllRel., Wtlltamsville, N. Y.
