VOLUME VDECEMBER 14, 1910NUMBER 13
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
WU&U5HEMEEKLTOTIIDHT5OfTHC(AmdltTEaini(AbS([1LSM

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
VH&gVri^Mi
Mosf n/ce affairs whether it be a Ball or Dinner are held at The Rittenhouse, 
where every appointment is perfect,
SK'
J*!

35 Boys This is the Headquarters for
I1/ HART, SCHAFFNER & MARX AND
f)l SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES )))
5s See Our Suit & Overcoat Special for $20 & $25  
>11 H. A. FRIEDBERG itf
j)j 439 Smithfield Street, - - Pittsburgh, Pa. f)]
m Open Evenings
--1% iV^J^J1
55S55S35SS5SS5S55~55S35S55Si5S55SS5S55SS5SS5Si5S35~552 
v JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY, )
')] Craig and Forbes St., 5;
 Beginners Class Tuesday and Saturday.
) Advanced, Wednesday and Friday. 55
 PRIVATE LESSONS DAILY. b
350555CG550555055502550555CeS50H55^502i5!Cte550S 
4^C>4^4^>4*C^4<K^4<>4-0*O4*4-C4-$4*Ci*04*04*iQ
Joseph Horne Co.
PENN AND FIFTH AVENUES.
A Broad Gauge Store *
*
having 80 selling departments, in which the 4*Ulive factor of small profits has built a trade 4Oreaching millions annually. ^
Some of the accommodations for the public: ^ 
Large Waiting Room, *
Writing Desks and Materials, ^
Retiring Room for Women, ^
A Public Restaurant, 
Telephones at East Counter, *
Telephone Booths, *
Room to Check Luggage, 4>
Messenger Service, 4
0 Taxicab Calls, 4* OV A Sub-Post Office, 4*
^ A House Physician, g
 Hospital on Premises. 4*
1 1C^4H^4<^O404*O4*O4'<^4*O4*O4-O4*O4-O4*O4*Ci4-O4^4i
4*y4.
4**4-*
COMPLETE LINE
Of
Drawing Instruments and Supplies 
Cameras and Photographic Supplies
< Eyes Examined, Glasses Ground, Frames Fitted
*
*4*%4,\4,N4*\4,\4,\4,N4e\4,%4,S4,\4,S4*\4,\4,\4,\4,\4,%
Wm.M. Stieren Optical Co.
623 LIBERTY AVENUE
s+%+x4#+x+sm+x+s#x*ie+%+%+X'i>%+si>x+x+4* y^ See us for your Class, School, Club and Fra*
f ternity Pins 
% HEEREN BROS. & CO. J
^ Penn Avenue and Eighth Street y>
4 We make and sell the Official Tech Pins 5
* 4\4^4-\4%4*VI*4*\4-\4-\4*S4'\4'%4'\4'V4*S4*\4-\4'\4
4*0^4-0\4-0%4<*%4-0%4'0\4-:'%4^:*N4-v%4*0\4*0\4-0%
3Dc "2"o-u. ^2^.0-w
that we print more books than any firmin the East End ?.......................................3Do "LTou ^22.0-w
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaflets elicit the,admiration of lovers of FinePrinting ? ......................................................
TDo Tou 32:23.0^*7:
that we are prompt, and that an order for a dollar receives as much care and attention as o'ne for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you reqiiire prompt and efficient service, come to . 
srF-A-ma cSc
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street 
Mr, H. J. McCorkle, Mgr., Tartan, is our representative at Tech.
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
0SXVS0%^%0SS%KSVS%KSKSa%K%QS&\<}%
WWW \wwww%wswwswwwsww\ $ OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET $
2 Dealers in 5' BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA. COFFEE * i AND CANNED GOODS g
S 3714 FORBES STREET 5y Bell Phone 710 Schenley 5f
9S969S90S969S9S9S9S90S9S9SSS9S3S99S9S9S9SSS9C9C%9CK
\4-v*m4-umwm4-\4-\w\^%4'^*V ^
Quality the Best Prices Moderate {
Bellfield Restaurant and Lunch Room *
Corner Craig and Forbes Streets
PITTSBURGH, PA. *
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS J
* * N4-V4\4-\*\4\4-\4*\4'\4*\4>\4-\4*VfrV!*4*\4'V*\4-
KURTZ, LANQBEIN & SWARTZ
Are now iu their new building, 535 Wood S treet 
Stationery, Engraving, Artists Materials 
Draughtmens and Engineers Supplies

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. VNo. 13(The (Tnrtnn
PITTSBURGH, PA., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1910
THE HOCKEY SITUATION
Hockey is the one sport in which Tech has always 
been a consistent winner. The conditions in and 
about Pittsburgh have been extremely favorable to 
the game with the result that Carnegie has always 
had a team which has competed with and won from 
the best colleges and universities in the country. It 
is hoped that the high standard be maintained.
The situation confronting the hockey team this 
year is one new to Tech but not unusual among col
leges. Owing to the conversion of Duquesne Garden 
ice rin'k into a roller skating shed, the team is with
out a regular place to practice and must depeud upon 
out-of-door ice sheets to work upon. This puts the 
question of a good team up to the fellows them
selves.
Arrangements are being made to flood Tech field 
and as soon as this is accomplished, the weather per
mitting, urgent call for candidates will be made. Men 
who are out for the team must watch the bulletin 
boards constantly. The practices will depend alto
gether upon weather conditions and owing to the fact 
that regular practice will not be possible, every man 
must be at every practice every minute to get the 
full benefit of the work-outs. A big trip is planned 
for the middle of January and the time for developing 
a first-class team is short.
The Board of Control has elected Jas. H. Knapp 
manager of the team and has made a wise selection. 
Mr. Knapps experience as manager of the Plebe foot
ball team in 1908 and as assistant manager of last 
years varsity football team, will stand him in good 
stead in his present position. His business ability 
and sound judgment have been shown time and again 
in the different student activities in which he has 
taken part. R. M. Scott, assistant hockey manager
is a Plebe and consequently an unknown quantity as 
yet. However he looks like a man who can do things 
and should make good.
Alan Bright, captain of the seven, is the greatest 
hockey player Tech has ever known. As a forward he 
is unexcelled, being a sure shot and one of the fastest 
hockey skaters in the game today. He should prove 
an able leader.
Besides Captain Bright, who is a forward, the fol
lowing men from last years team are back: Defense, 
Minnemeyer, Engstrom, McCracken; Forward, Joe 
Low, Harmer, Flood (sub). With these players as a 
nucleous ,the team this year should prove superior to 
any which has represented Carnegie upon the ice.
Manager Knapp has been extremely active during 
the past few weeks in the matter of schduling games. 
He is corresponding with West Point, Rensselaer, Col
umbia and several other big colleges in th East and 
the prospects for an eastern trip are very bright. 
Tech is well known in hockey circles and is held in 
respect by her opponents who recognize the merits 
of good, clean, straight sport. Arrangements have 
been practically completed for a trip through the 
West. This will be Techs first series of games and 
will probably take place in the middle of January. 
Case, Western Reserve, Denison and other schools 
will probably be on the card. Tech is well liked by 
Cleveland ice fans, wTho think that Bright and one or 
two others of the Plaidites are just about the last 
Word in hockey perfection.
Getting down to business the situation resolves it
self into this: Every man who is interested in hockey 
must keep his eyes open for practice and be at every 
practice. This applies with special emphasis to men 
trying out for forward positions. Time is short and

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
our facilities are not of the best. Men who are trying 
for forward positions should also make it a point to 
get in all the skating possible between now and the 
time the first practice is called. Speed and endurance 
are prime factors and must be cultivated at every op
portunity. If Tech field is not flooded within the next 
few days, men who are trying for defensive positions 
may be given some preliminary training in the gym
nasium. Everything possible will be done to produce 
a team capable of upholding Techs excellent reputa
tion in the game. Physical Director McCulloch 
is an enthusiastic follower of the sport and is con
siderable of an authority on hockey practice. Mr. 
McCulloch will coach the team this year, thus giving 
the boys the advantage over previous teams, that of 
having the services of a regular coach who knows 
the game and knows how to teach it.
As a last word let us repeat the statement of the 
absolute necessity for co-operation of all candidates 
with the men in control of the team. Every minute 
of practice will count and upon the shoulders of 
every man lies the responsibility of giving Carnegie 
Tech a good, fast, winning hockey team.
VARSITY BASKETBALL.
Owing to the quick responses which the students 
made to the call for financial aid for the basket-ball 
team, Manager Blanchard has been enabled to com
plete the following schedule of seventaen games: 
January 7Allegheny at Meadville.
13Bucknell at Lewisburg.
 14Penn State at State.
21Open.
 28Marietta at Marietta.
 30Ohio University at Athens.
 31Cedarville at Cedarville.
February 3Mt. Union at Alliance.
4Hiram at Hiram.
10Grove City at Pittsburgh.
11Pitt at University of Pittsburgh.
13Geneva at Pittsburgh,
17Grove City at Grove City.
18Marietta at Pittsburgh.
 22Allegheny at Pittsburgh.
24Geneva at Beaver Falls.
25Pitt at Tech.
The team is fortunate in having an exceptional, 
good coaching staff. Mr. Lightner fills the position 
of head coach and the way he is succeeding in getting 
the men down to hard work speaks well for a success
ful season. As assistants, Mr. McCulloch will pro
bably take charge of the guards and Dr. Schaffer the 
forwards. Besides these men the staff will be aug
mented by Doc Flint, the wrell known Penn man.
Between 30 and 40 men are now out for the team, 
and the task of picking out five men to represent the 
school will be a difficult one. Heltz, the big center 
from Knoxville seems to be the find of the season, 
his jumping and work under the basket being excep
tionally good. Of the men out last week, Jordan, Kil
gore and Williams look like the best bets for forward 
positions. All three men are accurate shooters, with
Williams probably leading the list. Mandeville, 
Saunders and Humphreys look like good material for 
guards. Mandeville should make a good scoring 
guard, as he is very good on long shots. Saunders is 
probably the best man on the squad for passing.
Besides the above mentioned men, there are a 
number of experienced men in school wrho are ex
pected out this week. DuBarry of the State 08 team 
and Williams of our own team of that year are both 
in night school. Young, of local reputation, will pro
bably also be out this week.
From present appearances, Carnegie Tech may ex
pect a veiy successful season.
Of the six home games the Allegheny and Pitt 
games will be the only ones at which the student 
tickets will not be honored.
CROSS COUNTRY TEAM.
The Cross Country Team under the leadership of 
Captain Wait has been practicing faithfully for the 
Annual Run of the Pittsburgh Athletic Association 
which is to be held next Saturday.
Last Saturday morning the Cross Country Team 
accompanied by some five or six other men partici
pated in a Hare and Hound Chase through the Schenley Park district. The deep snow of the past week 
hindered the men a great deal in their running, and 
also tended to reduce the number of participants. The 
Hares were led by Captain Wait and although there 
was not much difficulty in following the trail, such a 
hot pace wras set that the Hounds never even had a 
chance to catch the leaders.
INTER-CLASS BASKET-BALL.
Director McCulloch is very anxious that the differ
ent classes take action regarding inter-class basket
ball teams. It has been planned to have a league 
formed of all the different classes in school and to 
have regular scheduled games two or three times a 
week. Mr.'McCulloch is very desirous of starting 
the games immediately after the Christmas holidays, 
and it would be of great convenience to him in pre
paring a schedule if each class would elect some man 
to take charge of the team and confer with Mr. Mc
Culloch before Friday of this week concerning it. 
It has been suggested that in case it is not possible to 
call class meetings that the president of each class 
appoint some man temporarily to this office.
As has been stated before, this league is to be com
posed of men not on the varsity team from each class 
in the schools. Get busy fellows and start something.
The University of Santo Tomas, Manila, is the 
oldest educational institution under the American 
flag.
We cant all smoke ten-cent cigars 
Or own a limousine,
But we can all collect the bands 
And smell the gasoline.Ex.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
GYMNASIUM SUITS.
Notices nave recently been posted in the Field House 
stating that no man would be allowed on the floor 
unless dressed in a regular gym suit. For the con
venience of the fellows, Mr. MeCulloch has received 
prices on two different suit combinations and the men 
are urged to place their order with him or Mr. Hull 
as soon as possible.
A suit composed of one woolen shirt, (white); one 
pair woolen stockings, (blue); one pair sateen run
ning pants, (blue); one pair rubber soled shoes, 
(black), price $2.65.
The same combination can be obtained with a cot
ton shirt and cotton stockings instead of wool for 
$1.95.
GYMNASIUM WORK.
Ever since the opening of the Field House, the 
floor of the gymnasium has been in constant demand 
by both those who are playing basket-ball and those 
who are interested in the gymnasium work. Director 
McCulloch has been conducting informal classes 
practically every evening at which one finds both 
students and professors who wish to forget their 
daily cares and troubles for an hour or so.
After the Christmas holidays all the work at the 
gym will be done during hours scheduled for that 
work. At the present time a schedule is in the 
hands of the Deans of the respective schools for rat
ification which will call for a certain time for each 
class and department in gymnastics.
Practically all the apparatus has been installed on 
the floor of the gymiiasium and everything is now in 
waiting for the re-opening of school.
INTERESTING ITEMS.
Mr. W. P. Field has been elected one of the five 
trustees who are to found a Yale Scholarship Fund 
for the Pittsburgh District.
Prof. Hornbostel lectured before the Art Society 
in Carnegie Lecture Hall on Tuesday night.
Miss Sue Watson, of the School of Applied Design, 
is working on a bust of Col. Edward J. Allen. The 
bust will be placed in Memorial Hall when finished.
INTERCOLLEGIATE HOCKEY.
New York City will not long monopolize all the 
eastern intercollegiate hockey games. A new rink 
has been opened at Boston this year and part of the 
games will be played there. Harvard will thus be 
able to play her games practically at home.
Boston Tech has inaugurated a training table for 
its basket ball team.
JUNIOR MECHANICAL BANQUET.
As a fitting climax to a very successful season, the 
Junior Mechanicals celebrated by holding a banquet 
in honor of the Junior Mechanical football team. The 
feed took place at the Fort Pitt Hotel, Wednesday 
evening, December 7. Almost every member of the 
light brigade was present. Professor Trinks held 
the post of honor as the guest of the class. The 
entire Senior Mechanical class was also in attendance 
by invitation of the Juniors.
The office of toastmaster was ably filled by Lefty 
Manker, whose commanding address and genial pres
ence added much to the charm of the occasion. Dur
ing the evening, speeches were rendered by Professor 
Trinks, Mr. Hanford 10, Coach David Henderson, 
Manager Harry Holiday, Captain Luther M. Patter
son and Third-baseman James K. Lamoree.
Professor Trinks spoke first about the Carnegie 
Mechanical Society and discussed the proposition of 
awarding a money prize to the alumnus that reads the 
best paper on some technical subject before the so
ciety. The latter half of his speech was devoted to 
an intensely interesting description of German uni
versity life. He touched upon the two popular forms 
of athletics over therebeer drinking and fencing. 
His talk was very instructive throughout. His 
humorous exposition of the methods of teaching and 
methods of flunking at his Alma Mater at Charlottenburg was full of fun and wit.
Mr. Hanford spoke for the Senior Mechanicals and 
in a few appropriate words expressed the good feel
ing which exists between the Junior and Senior 
classes.
The speeches delivered by the Messrs. Henderson, 
Holiday and Patterson were characterized mainly by 
an attempt to place the credit for the successful sea
son upon each others shoulders. The fact that the 
team went through a trying season without losing a 
game was emphasized and those responsible were 
lauded to the utmost.
The banquet was one of the prettiest affairs of the 
season. The good-fellowship and class spirit evinced 
by the men is one of the best things in our short 
college career, and should be cultivated. The Juniors 
in charge of the feed deserve especial mention for the 
excellent way in which it was conducted.
SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES IN SESSION.
A very important meeting of scientific men from 
all parts of this country will be held during the last 
week of this month in Carnegie Music Hall. The 
National Geological Society will hold its sessions De
cember twenty-seventh and twenty-ninth, inclusive, 
and th American Paleonotological Society from the 
twenty-ninth to thirty-first inclusive. In connection 
with the meetings of these men, Dr. Holland direc
tor of the Carnegie Museum, will give the first view 
of the bones of the dinosaur. Both Director Hamerschlag and Mr. Tarbell are on the committee in 
charge of the meetings.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
MHO CLUB.
The regular monthly meeting of the Mho Club was 
held last Wednesday evening, December 7, in Room 
121, A. S. Building. The evening was largely taken 
up by a debate and discussion on the Advantages 
of the Edison over the Lead Storage Battery. The 
affirmative was upheld by Brand and Johnston, of 
the Soph, class, and the negative by Hunter and 
Patterson, of the Juniors. The subject was exceed
ingly well handled by the separate speakers and 
showed considerable preparation on their part. The 
construction, operation and theory of the two types 
was thoroughly discussed and each man presented 
his views in a convincing manner. The decision was 
given in favor of the negative. In the discussion 
that followed almost every member present took 
part and considerable information in regard to the 
Storage Battery was brought up.
A new departure in the conducting of the meetings 
is to be tried at the next session. It is desired to 
bring in other subjects and amusements, which are 
not directly allied with Engineering, but at the same 
time will prove instructive as well as entertaining. 
In this matter the meetings can be made interesting 
to others outside of the club members. In the future 
the meetings will be open and visitors will be wel
comed. It is thus thought that the scope of the Club 
can be widened and better and more far-reaching 
results be obtained. A committee has been appoint
ed to make arrangements for the next meeting and 
something out of the ordinary is promised.
APPLIED INDUSTRIES. 
Industrials Lose.
The Allegheny Prep. School five defeated the Car
negie Tech Industrials by the score of 38 to 10 Fri
day night, December 9, on the Prep, floor. The sen
sational work of Forter, who captured 12 field goals,
was a feature.Tfle Industrials could not get started
right, due to the smallness of the floor.
The game throughout was a very clean one. Line
up:
Prep.38.Industrials10.
Hawrorth .....................Forward......................M. Ahlers
Forter .......................Forward..................... Longmore
McAfee ...........................Center............................. Heckel
Thompson.............Guard..............Heisel (Capt.)
Magee (Capt.)..............Guard..........................H. Ahlers
GoalsHayworth 3, Forter 12, McAfee, Thompson, 
'Heisel 2, Kiefer. FoulsThompson 4, M. Ahlers 2, 
Heisel 2. SubstitutionsMowry for Haworth, For
ter for McGee, Cruikshank for Forter, Kiefer for H. 
Ahlers. Referee-Flint, U. of P.
Sidney Siech, 08 Science,is in town for a short 
stay. He is with the Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory 
and has been acting as superintendent of construc
tion for the company at Milwaukee. *
*t STUDENT AID BUREAU J 
* *
[The positions below are now open. Students 
wishing to secure employment should communicate 
with Mr. W. P. Field as soon as possible.Ed.]
Full Time.
Superintendent of Furnace Construction and Erec
tion for large firm in this city, $150 month to start.
Position for young lady as secretary to a surgeon 
in Pittsburgh, taking notes on cases, general cor
respondence, $1,000 year.
Electrician in charge of installation of lights in 
minework is about 20 miles from Pittsburgh$90 
month to start.
Assistant to Architect In charge of laying out 
changes in buildings of large Pittsburgh concern, 
$70$100 month to start.
Engineer and draftsman on steam hydraulic work, 
large machine company in vicinity of Pittsburgh, 
$125 month to start.
Chemist, in one of large steel concerns of this 
city, position for graduate with two years experi
ence, good wages.
Mechanical draftsman on steam piping for boilers, 
etc., firm in Pittsburgh; $60 month to start.
Surveying corps, mine surveying, about 30 miles 
from Pittsburgh; $60 month to start.
Part Time.
Meter testing in downtown districts of Pittsburgh, 
5.307.30 daily; $1.00 per day.
Soliciting, various lines, insurance, vacuum clean
ers, portable washstands, sewing machines, post 
cards, etc.
Night instructor in industrial school in this city, 
two nights per week; $1.50 per night.
Clerks in department stores during Christmas vaca
tion.
The position of chairman of the Junior Prom, at 
Yale is now elective.
A massive silver-gray tower, 150 feet high and 40 
feet square, costing $100,000, is to be erected at 
Princeton as a memorial to former President Cleve
land.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANl
l3M3I3M5ISI5MBI3fSlBI3fSMSM!tL,SM3JMSSMi3M3JiJ31331SEl
| M. M. C. S. |
cij3ISM3JSJSISEMS!Si3SMSI3E3I3ME,SJBJBJSi3]Si3MSJS][i!J 
THE CHRISTMAS PLAY.
The first 1910 performance of The Triumph 01 
St. Nicholas, the traditional play of the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie School, was given Tuesday even
ing in the gymnasium of the School. The audience 
was composed mainly of students, this performance 
being given especially for them, and the auditorium 
was crowded. The play, which is written and 
staged by Miss Elizabeth R. Stoner, of the M. M. C.
S., is a creation of rare merit. The dialogue is well 
balanced and the songs and lyrics are full of beauty 
and significance. The action throughout the production is cleverly advanced and shows the work of a 
master-hand. The girls are indeed fortunate in com
manding the talent and services of a writer and or
ganizer of Miss otoners ability.
The play was well acted throughout. The play 
itself is practically unchanged from last year. How
ever, several new songs and an almost entirely new 
cast of the principal characters make the produc
tion at once interesting and new. Although handi
capped by a short time for practice and the prox
imity of examinations, the girls enacted" their parts 
in masterly fashion. The singing was good and the 
costumes very pretty. An interesting point in the 
latter connection was the wearing of the two jewels 
brought over last summer from Scotland by Dean 
West. The jewels greatly enhanced the beauty of 
the Tartan Maids costume, of which they are now 
a part.
The play will be given again on Thursday evening 
and will be open to the putilic. The performers will 
be at their best and a rare treat is assured those 
who attend.
The Guild of the M. M. C. S. held its first open 
meeting on Saturday, December 11, 1910. At this 
meeting. Katherine Swickard, the first president of 
the Guild, read the Constitution and handed it over 
to Elizabeth Lawrie, the new president.
A bazaar was held in connection with the meeting. 
The alumni had a table of Christmas articles made 
and donated by the girls. This table was beauti
fully decorated with appropriate Christmas colors.
The Seniors of the School had a candy and cake 
booth decorated*with greens and tiny electric lights. 
The attractiveness of this table was greatly en
hanced by the original and dainty boxes made by 
Dean West.
All members donated bathing suits for Kingsley 
House, so that the children may all go swimmm  
at their summer home in Valencia. While tea and 
cake was being served to the guests by the girls in 
cooking costume, a short musical program was 
given:
Chanson de Florian..................................................Godard
Jane Caldwell.
Funiculi ...................................................................... Italian
Glee Club and Helen Baglin.
Carmena ..........................................................H. L. Wilson
Helen Baglin.
Greek Dances................................................................
Miss Stoner, Ruth Henderson, Mary Morrow, 
Olive Jenkins.
Swimming and boating have been made regular 
athletic activities for women at Leland Stanford.
A curfew order has been passed by the student 
council at Wellesley, requiring undergraduates to be 
on the college premises at 7.30 oclock in the winter 
and 8 oclock in summer.
Bryn Mawr College celebrates its twenty-ninth an
niversary this fall.
SOPHOMORES.
At a recent meeting of the Sophomore class, con
siderable time was spent on the subject of finance. 
At the beginning of this year there were a number of 
bills to be paid and to meet these a certain amount 
was pledged by each man. Only a very small propor
tion of this amount has been paid and as a result, 
there still are some unpaid bills. Through the gener
osity of certain individuals in the class this money 
has been advanced and it is only fair to them as class 
mates that those who so far have neglected in this 
matter, pay it to the class treasurer before the vaca
tion. This notice applies to the Design Sophomores 
as well as the Science men.
Professor Lowe last week delighted the Sophomore 
class by the announcement that they were to be 
given a chance to vote whether or not they would be 
compelled to hand in written reports in Heat Labratory. In place of fne reports notes were to be kept in 
such shape that they could be understood any time 
later and also the class was to be subject to an exam
ination at the end of the year in laboratory work. 
Practically all the sections voted to try the new plan 
as an experiment for a month or so, with the option 
of being allowed to re-adopt the old plan in case they 
were not satisfied.
One of the sophomores is credited with saying that 
there comes a time once a month when he wishes he 
was in any other place in the country but Carnegie 
Tech. This must be one of those timesquizzes 
everyday, and small chance to study when a fellow is 
consulting railroad time tables trying to figure the 
quickest way to get back home to see the Girl He 
Left Behind Him.
Minnesota boasts of having a college student who 
is-only fourteen years old.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pitts
burgh, Pennsylvania
EDITORIAL BOARD.
James K. Lamoree, 12.............Editor-in-Chief
Donald D. Mitchell, 12.............Associate Editor
David Henderson, 12..............Associate Editor
John H. Clements, 13...................Athletic Editor
Helen M. Baglin, 11, M. M. C. S., Assoc. Editor 
Florence A. Flinn, 11, M.M.C.S., Assist Editor 
C. B. Kline, 13.......................Assistant Editor
H. J. McCorkle, 11.................Business Manager
C. C. Hixenbaugh, 12.... Advertising Manager
Subscription Rates
Yearly .....................................................................$2.00
Single Copy....................................................10 Cents
Student Rates
Yearly ....................................................................$1.00
Single Copy.......................................................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools
ATHLETICS.
One of the most pleasing developments during the 
past few weeks is the way in which athletics have 
progressed. The period following directly upon the 
heels of the football season is usually a quiet one, 
due in a great measure to the reaction which comes 
after three months of that strenuous game. Such 
has not been the case at Tech. Basket ball was taken 
up at once and an unusually good squad is at work; 
the hockey team is waiting impatiently for a chance 
to practice, and as soon as a call for candidates is 
issued, there is little doubt but that quite a large 
number will respond; the cross-counti'y team, under 
the able leadership of Captain* Wait, is in excellent 
condition and expects to make a good showing in the 
P. A. A. run next Saturday; the races and inter-class 
contests which hav been held under the direction of 
Mr. McCulloch have brought out large numbers of 
the athletic lesser lights. On a whole, the interest 
manifested by the students is good and there is no 
reason why Tech should not go through the winter 
represented by good strong teams. Mr. McCulloch 
and others who are advancing the cause are doing 
an excellent work and deserve great credit for their 
efforts.
TAYLOR HAPPY.
Mr. Taylor, king of the forge room, is the proud 
father of a bouncing baby girl. The cause of his joy 
arrived Monday before last, and ever since that Mr. 
Taylor has worn the perpetual smile, Congratula
tions and best wishes, father!
DR. RAINSFORD SPEAKS TO STUDENT BODY.
Fine Address Given to Students.
Last Tuesday morning Dr. Rainsford of New 
York, who, it will be remembered, gave our Com
mencement address last year, spoke again to the en
tire student body. It was announced to the separate 
classes Tuesday morning that Dr. Rainsford was tp 
speak and the big lecture hall in the Science Building 
was filled to over-flowing. It is perfectly safe to say 
that none of the students went away from the hall 
without the wish that the Doctor keep his promise 
and come again soon to tell us about'his hunting trip 
in the wilds of Africa.
Director Hamerschlag introduced Doctor Rains
ford, who commenced his address by saying that we 
must not deem him conceited if he talked a great 
deal of himself, that being the one great source of 
experience from which any man could draw. He 
then preceeded to tell us of his early life in England 
and how he came to change his vocation from that 
of a soldier to one of helpfulness in the slums of 
London. He told of his first trip to this country 
and his wonderful trip in company with his brotherin-law across the plains. His story of how he im
pressed upon the Chief that he did not want the 
Doctors only gun will long exist. After telling of 
his early struggles in New York and of the help he 
received from his group of young men, among whom, 
by the way, was Director Hamerschlag, he brought 
out the fact that this country had before it a great 
task, a great duty, and that its fulfillment concerned 
no one group but all of us. The duty is the proving 
to the world that justice can and does exist for all, 
rich and poor alike, and that this country is the 
place where it may be obtained.
Dr. Rainsford also hit a mark when he spoke of 
the giving out a mans nervous system in this life of 
continual strain. His advice to get back to nature 
instead of indulging in a bat was very good.
It is to be sincerely hoped that chance will be 
made for Doctor Rainsford to come back soon and 
tell of his lions and other things.
NEW BOARD OF CONTROL MEETS.
Lively Session Held by Governing Body of Athletic 
Association
The first meeting of the 1910-11 Board of Control 
of the Athletic Association took place in the Applied 
Science building, Wednesday evening, December 7th. 
The meeting was well attended, practically every 
member of the Board being on hand. The first busi
ness transacted was the election of officers for the 
coming year. After the ballots were counted the re
sults were found to be as follows:
PresidentAlan Bright, 11.
Vice-PresidentW. G. Blanchard, 12.
SecretaryR. S. Dornberger, 13.
The new officers then took charge of the meeting 
and the business at hand was taken up. The resig

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
nation of Guy C. Hecker, manager of baseball was 
read and accepted. President Bright declared the 
office vacant and called for the election of a man to 
fill the office. After a particularly heated discussion, 
during the course of which several strenuous speech
es were made by members of the Board, C. C. Hixenbaugh, 12, assistant manager, was elected to the po
sition. Mr. Hixenbaugh is an able man and will 
make a successful manager. The office of first assist
ant, vacated by Mr. Hixenbaugh, was left to be filled 
at some future date. The fact was then brought up 
that Ray Light, manager of last years track team had 
been omitted from the list of men granted letters at 
the previous Board Meeting. Mr. Light was awarded 
his C with little discussion. At the suggestion of 
one of the members, the Board instructed Secretary 
Dornberger to send notes of appreciation to Louis 
Middleman, Walton and Merle Hatton, men who had 
played football on this years' team but who on ac
count of injuries did not complete the required num
ber of games to be awarded letters. Following this 
a short informal discussion was indulged in, after 
which the meeting was adjourned.
The meeting was by far the liveliest and most in
teresting held by a Board of Control for many months 
The new Board shows signs of coming to life and con
ducting affairs in the business-like manner which the 
importance of its work demands.
CRUCIBLE CLUB MEETING.
The December student meeting of the Crucible 
Club was held Decei*-oer 7th in Room 216. After the 
transaction of the routine business Mr. H. F. Englebrecht, Chem. 12, read a very creditable paper on 
Carborundum. Starting with the discovery of car
borundum by Mr. Acheson in Pittsburgh several years 
ago, he traced the process through its experimental 
stages, and concluded by very clearly outlining the 
present practice as carried on at Niagara Falls. Fol
lowing the above paper Mr. C. B. Calloman, Chem., 12, 
read a carefully prepared paper on The Commercial 
Manufacture of Nitric Acid. Following a few prelim
inary statements, as to the theory of the processes in
volved, the sources of raw materials were discussed. 
Mr. Calloman then considered the chief commercial 
processes and gave a summary of tne advantages and 
disadvantages of each. In the general discussion 
which followed Dr. Fernekes took a leading and ag
gressive part. Mr. Dot J. Felkel, 09, regaled the Club 
with many humorous incidents pretaining to his work. 
Dot seems to be a mortal enemy of the Hunkies. 
Dr. James was in a happy mood and kept the crowd in 
good spirits by relating humorous incidents and anec
dotes in connection with his Chemical experience. 
The refreshments committee served a very appetiz
ing lunch after which the meeting adjourned.
The standard of the meetings being held merits the 
attendance and cooperation of the students, alumni 
and faculty. The Secretary endeavors to notify the 
alumni of the meetings. If any have not received 
such notices they will confer a favor upon the Sec
retary by sending him their present addresses that 
notices may reach them in the future.
R. C. Brown, Secretary,
15 Mawhinney Street.
THE OFFER OF THE COLLEGE.
To be at home in all lands and ages: to count 
Nature a familiar acquaintance, and Art an in
timate friend: to gain a standard for the ap
preciation of other mens work and the crit
icism of your own: to carry the keys of the 
worlds library in your pocket, and feel its re
sources behind you in whatever task you 
undertakes; to make hosts of friends among 
the men of your own age who are to be the 
leaders in all walks of life: to lose yourself 
in generous enthusiasms and cooperate with 
others for common ends, to learn manners 
from students who are gentlemen, and form 
character under professors who are Christ
iansthis is the offer of the college for the 
best four years of your life.
Note.The above was written by William de Witt 
Hyde, Harvard, 79, while he was President of Bowdoin College. It is taken from a recent issue of the 
Harvard Alumni Bulletin and is an apt and interest
ing statement of what a college education should 
stand for.Ed.
NEW SCHOOL SONG.
(NoteThe following song, an adaptation from an 
old Scottish ballad, had been written for the Carnegie 
Technical Schools by Miss Elizabeth Stoner.Ed.)
Wi a Hundred Pipers.
Wi a hundred pipers and a and a
Wi a hundred pipers and a and a
Carnegie Tech will gie a blau
Wi a hundred pipers and a and a.
1
Far into the world we will gang awa
But our hearts will turn and old memories draw 
To Carnegie Tech and its laddies braw 
Its useful lassies and a and a
Wi a hundred pipers, etc.
2
We will Wave the Tartan on high, on high 
To the ends of the earth will its message fly 
And Carnegie Spirit will never die
For each lad will call and each lass reply,
Wi a hundred pipers, etc.
DISCREET.
May Imay I kiss you dear? said he.
First I want one thing made clear, said she. 
Have you eer kissed a maid before, or ever tried? 
No, he answeredshe was sure he lied.
Then with willing lips, she whispered, Well,
Yes, you may, since you dont kiss and tell.
Boston Transcript.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
ISSMSISMSMSJSMSISISMSISMSISJSJSMSMSEJSJSMSMSJSJ g El
I PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT J
icilBI5IBIBIBBJBJBlBJBj51BJDlE@iilf5JBJBJBJB]BJHIBJBSJBJSJBJBiE5JE15JciJ 
PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT.
In order to be early and avoid the rush, wa say 
it nowMerry Christmas!
Tnis is the way they look to the struggling stu
dentEXAMINATIONS!
Hockey and basketball advance apace. Ye noble 
athlete must have his way.
The Cornell Musical Clubs will appear in Carnegie 
Music Hall, December 30.
Dr. John A. Brashear, in a recent lecture before 
the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia, put the minds 
of the people at ease by showing them just why there 
cannot be any canals on Mars. Uncle John let us 
into that secret long ago, besides quite a few others 
concerning the stars.
Snyder, chief of the janitorial staff, says that cold, 
fresh air is a panacea for all ills. How about a cure 
for maltreated breakage fees?
Manker came to school the other day clad in his 
papas trousers. Lefty says that he got them by 
mistake.
MECHANICAL DRAUGHTMENS CLUB SMOKER.
Next Thursday, December 15th, the Mechanical 
Draughtsmens Club will give a smoker and enter
tainment in room 104 in the A. J. building. The en
tertainment will not start till 9.30 so as to allow the 
night men to attend without missing the evening 
session of school. The entertainment will consist 
of music, speeches, and moving pictures. A quartet 
from the Glee Club will tear the air and a portion 
of the Mandolin Club will play. Dean Connelly, Mr. 
Leeds and Mr. Pfouts will speak, and moving pic
tures of some big prize-fight or ball-game will add 
to the entertainment. At the close of the entertain
ment there will be eats. The admission is twentynve cents.
The Governing Board nas ordered built a mancarrying glider of the biplane type.
State College observed the week of prayer for 
colleges last week, each day being set aside for 
some form of religious exercise.
When State holds its inter-class cross-country 
runs, the first five to finish and the first five of one 
class to finish receive their class numerals.
The merchants of the towm contribute to the prize 
list of from 12 to 15 prizes.
THISTLE BOARD COMPLETED.
The following Night students elected to the This
tle Board from the M. M. C. S. and the A. S.Schools 
are as follows: M. M. C. S.Miss Albertson, Miss 
Bradley, and Miss Weaver; Applied ScienceJ. J. 
Swinbank, M. B. Carpenter and R. C. Weller.
These elections complete the Thistle Board. The 
students are taking unusual interest in the Tech 
Annual, and a good book should be the result.
The representatives will be notified when the first 
meeting is to be held. At this meeting the associate 
editors will be elected and the work will be planned 
for the year.
Harry M. Gousha,
Editor-in-Chief.
ALUMNI NOTES.
Guy T. Narrance, 08, Science, has left the Westinghouse Electric Company, and has taken a posi
tion in the Meter Department of Grays Harbor and 
Railway Light Company at Aberdeen, Washington.
C. E. SOCIETY MEETS.
The Civil Engineering Society held its regular 
monthly meeting Saturday evening, December 10. 
Dr. Severance^ Burroge, the speaker of the evening, 
delivered a very entertaining lecture on the subject 
of The Relations of Biology to Engineering. Dr. 
Burroge is a powerful ortor and has a convincing 
way of expressing himself. After the lecture, th 
usual business meeting was carried out. Refresh
ments were served late in the evening..
IMPORTANT.
Notice to All Students.
Students must keep the stubs of the season foot
ball tickets on which is written the students name, 
and number, as these tickets will be accepted at the 
gate for the 1911 baseball season, or will be ex
changed for season baseball tickets.
This is the third and last time this notice will be 
published, so please make careful note of same
C. C. Hixenbaugh,
Baseball Manager.
IF !
Three scientific men from an Eastern college vis
ited a certain Montana mine. On the ascent, by 
means of the usual bucket, one professor thought he 
perceived signs of weakness in the rope by which 
the bucket was suspended. Howr often, he in
quired of the attendant, do you change these ropes? 
Every three months, carelessly replied the other. 
Then he added thoughtfully, This must have been 
forgotten. We must change it to-day if we get up. 
Christian Register.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN11
APPLIED DESIGN.
First Year Night.
One of the most successful affairs of its kind was 
the Smoker held by the First Year Night Class in 
the assembly room of the Applied Industries build
ing, Saturday evening, December 10. A large crowd 
of fellows were present and it did not take the 
crowd long to mix together in the most congenial 
manner. The first part of the evening was taken 
up by a number of musical selections rendered by 
the First Year Night Orchestra. The orchestra, 
consisting of nine pieces, presented a line of music 
which was really good. They were given generous 
applause and had to respond to several encores be
fore they were allowed to retire. A business meet
ing of the class was then called by President Jones. 
After several items of importance were passed upon, 
the meeting was adjourned. During the remainder 
of the evening the men were entertained by recita
tions by Messrs. Lonergan, Cameron, Weisman and 
Wesoscy. Refreshments were served'at a late hour, 
and after singing a bunch of old familiar songs, the 
meeting was broken up. The First Year Night men 
are to be congratulated upon the way they are get
ting together this year.
CHRISTMAS VACATION.
Notice has been issued that the Christmas vaca
tion will extend this year from December 16th until 
January 3d.
The majority of the students who live out of town 
will spend the two weeks at home, celebrating the 
holiday season in the midst of their family circles. 
Quite a number of the men will find employment 
during their vacation and will thus earn a tidy sum 
while resting from their term of mental exercise. 
When the Schools re-open at the first of the year, 
reviews for the finals of the first semester will prob
ably be started. The students will be well able to 
take up the work with a keen relish after their rest.
JUNIOR PROM COMMITTEE MEETS.
President Henderson of the Junior Prom Com
mittee called the first meeting of that body last 
week. The course of action to be pursued was dis
cussed and passed upon at length. Although quite 
a few of the important details of the big dance have 
been fixed, nothing has as yet been definitely set
tled. Full information will be published in the next 
issue of The Tartan.
Dartmouth College has received a gift of $500,000 
from an alumnus. The money is to be used for the 
purpose of enlarging and strengthening the teaching 
forceNof the School.
The unquestioned value of the recently discovered 
deposits of zinc carbonate and silicate at Leadville 
has directed attention to the inexplicable reason for 
overlooking them in years gone by. Noted geolo
gists, such as Emmons and Irving, have given the 
matter their attention, but without offering any sat
isfactory reason for the oversight, except that at the 
time the deposits were first opened it was probable 
that the miner was so intent upon the discovery of 
gold and silver that he neither regarded the zince 
minerals as having value, nor did he have them ana
lyzed to ascertain such a possibility.
Be that as it may, the deposits now known to ex
ist and from which shipments have already been 
made, are of sufficient importance to warrant the 
Colorado School of Mines preparing a special bulletin 
on the genesis and extent of the deposits, the identi
fication of the minerals and the assay of the ore. In 
view of the specially favorable market for zinc at 
the present time the mining and reduction of these 
ores must be of great benefit to the industry.Met
allurgical and Chemical Engineering.
She was shy when she went away 
Two months ago precisely,
But kisses now, I have to say,
Real nicely.
She was shy for a city miss;
I look at it astutely 
And wonder how she learned to kiss 
So cutely.
But she is1 not inclined to tell,
And I can only ponder,
How do girls learn to kiss so well??
I wonder.
Washington Herald.
He stood before a cold grave-stone,
I thought his mind was on the dead. 
But soon he raised his eyes to mine, 
Thats feldspar there, he said.
Record.
HeTheyre playing a distinctly offensive game. 
SheOh, do you think so? I think theyre play
ing very nicely.Harvard Lampoon.
Mary had a little watch,
The price she paid was low;
And everywhere that Mary went 
That watch refused to go.
Purple Cow.
Why dont you go to the dance to-night, Harold? 
Havent you any flame?
Yes, dad, said the Harvard student, a flame, but 
no iuel.Life.
It is stated that 1029 Yale students have taken part 
in college activities this year.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUES
SHOES
EAST END
SEE THE NEW TOE KIDD9
Made up in Heavy Fall and Winter Tan Button and Blucher 
SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS FOR THE FALL STYLES
FOOTBALL.
If the kickoff 
Is a pickoff,
How they amble 
For the scramble,
To the motion 
Of commotion!
Brain and muscle 
In a tussle,
All is action 
And distraction.
Come together.
Nose and leather 
Blood is flowing.
Thats some showing.
Giants crumble 
As they tumble.
Oh, what slaughter!
Quick, bring water!
Loose his sweater.
Now hes better.
See him rally 
For the sally.
Finger broken,
But unspoken 
Is complaining 
He is straining 
For a final 
At the spinal 
Of the foemen.'
Happy omen!
Girls in sweaters 
Call his letters,
Wildly shouting:
Keep them doubting!
Fine and dandy!
Youre the candy!
All together,
Chase the leather 
Through the line-up!
Make them sign up 
For a part in 
Kindergarten!
All is ended,
Bones unmended 
Need attention.
But why mention 
Now the victim?
Our side licked em. Savannah
EVERY TECHNICAL MAN
 will find the following papers of interest and  
*value in his work.
They will keep you posted on the latest de^
**
^ velopments in your chosen profession: They
 will tell you what the leading engineers in your 
line are doing. They will also keep you in
formed of the openings in your profession 
of opportunities for advancement throughout 
the field.
ELECTRICAL WORLDWeekly$3.00 a Year. 
The foremost electrical journal of the 
world. Covers the entire electrical art and 
industry.
ENGINEERING RECORDWeekly$3 a Year. 
Devoted to civil engineering and allied sub
jects. Covers municipal engineering, indus
trial engineering, railway, civil engineering, 
bridge anu structural engineering, power 
plants, public works, etc.
ELECTRICAL RAILWAY JOURNALWeekly
$3.00 a Year.
The accepted authority in all branches of 
electric railway engineering.
Write for Special Student Rates& Sample Copies 
McGRAW PUBLISHING COMPANY
New York
*******
%i
*
iii**********239 West 39th StreetT*
******$**
*
****
?**+*****************?
Press.
An innocent Abroad.
Having come into some money, a Cockney went 
for a holiday to Paris. He knew nothing nothing of 
the language, but trusted wholly to his native wit 
carrying him through. His first dinner, however, 
was full of trials. He was desperately hungry, but 
could not understand the menu. First the waiter 
brought him soup. Again he pointed, and again it 
was soup. After three courses of soup he was pin
ing for something more solid, so he pointed to the 
last item of all, feeling pretty sure that he had 
missed the soup this time. The obliging waiter 
went off and presently returnedwith a bundle of 
tooth picks.London Daily News,

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
Jas. J. Flannery, President. j. j. Booth, Vice-President. /. G. Pew, 2d Vice-Pres, and Sec'y
C. B. Aylesworth, Treasurer,
RESOURCES OVER ONE AND ONE HALF MILLION DOLLARS. DEPOSITS OVER ONE MIL
LION DOLLARS. CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUS
AND DOLLARS. A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
Get your class fobs either nickel, silver or 
gold, any year, at the SCHENLEY LUNCH, 
Craig and Forbes.
Special offeronly a few fobs left at 25 
cents. SCHENLEY LUNCH.
THE ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY IN ENGLAND AND 
AMERICA.
In the course of an address given before the Man
chester, England, section of the Institution of Elec
trical Engineers, Mr. J. S. Peck, chairman of that 
body, gave some reasons why America had excelled 
England in electrical matters. As Mr. Peck had just 
returned to England after a trip to this country he 
was particularly well fitted to give an opinion on the 
subject, and at least three of the points upon which 
he dwelt are worthy of a brief consideration.
In the first place, he stated municipal control does 
not exist here to such a degree as in England, and 
when a party of men enter upon an important devel
opment work they feel that any profit which may ac
crue will go to them; a fact which at least adds in
centive to the project.
The superior technical education given to the stud
ents in our engineering schools was another reason 
given, although as far as pure technics are concerned 
many hold the English schools to be superior to our 
own. There seems, however, to be but little doubt of 
the superiority of the American method of starting 
the technical graduate in the shop on the testing 
floor and letting him work out his own salvation. One 
has only to look over the list of men in the appren
ticeship courses to see that technical graduates of all 
countries are realizing this fact as well as we do our
selves. It is in our factories that the graduate learns 
the relation of theory to practice; and a knowledge 
of this relation is necessary as a firm basis for indus
trial progress.
Finally the greater daring of the American busi
ness man,.and his willingness to advance money for 
untried, but plausible projects has contributed much 
to our progress. So keen is this interest in new ven
tures that bond issues of new companies are frequent
ly overscribed. We experience but little of the diffi
culty in raising money, which is met by our English 
cousins.Electrical Review and Western Electrician.
The latest innovation to college athletics is Crowdball, invented at Wisconsin. The crowd ball itself 
is an inflated leather thiijg 24 inches in diameter. 
The game, which is played on a football field, has no 
rules whatsoever. The opposing teams may be of any 
size provided they are equal. The object is to rush 
kick, throw, or carry the ball beyond the opponents 
goal post. No downs are called; any tactics are fair.
THINK IT OVER.
If you must have wrinkles, get them from laugh
ing.
A good executive makes quick decisions. But if 
these are merely snap judgments, lacking consid
eration of conditions and consequences, hes not a 
good executive.
The man who never makes a mistake is too slow 
to be useful in these days of action.
Experience teaches lessons that colleges never 
dreamed of.
The boss says a peck of initiative is worth a barrel 
of initiation.
The ambitious man is certain to succeed. All the 
good that has ever been done in this world has been 
accomplished by ambitious fellowsmen of action.
A wise man suppresses fully two-thirds of his 
opinions.
Really big men dont have swelled heads. Ever 
notice it?
Dont pity the busy man. Hes happy. The man 
nursing a soft snap is the one who needs real sym
pathythough he may not deserve it.
It is better to make a few mistakes than to do 
nothing at allbut dont make too many.
When I realize how many valuable friends I have,
I quit worrying about the people who dont like me.
The Dodge idea.
The President and Board of Trustees of Lehigh 
University recently gave a dinner to the football 
squad and coach.

---------------------------------------------------

11THE TARTAN
Forbes and Atwood Sts.Oakland
*
^r>e"Best Store
Mens Kid Gloves special $1.00 a Pair.
Mens Fall and Winter Weight Union 
(Superior Make) $1.00, $1.50 to $3.00 a Suit.
SuitsOnyx Brand Silk Hosiery for Men, Black and all 
Colors, 50c a pair.
****/**4***************'3i*\*\*VfrV*V&V*V*V***V*X*V*V*%*****V&V*X*V*V*VfrV&V*V'V*V!*V*****V'X*S*V***X**
INTE RCOLLEGIATES.
The University of North Dakota has established a 
course for nurses. It is the second school of its 
kind in the country to offer such a course.
At Indiana a ruling has been passed which safe
guards the amateur character of college athletics. 
If any man declares himself eligible for athletics 
who has played in a professional capacity he is not 
only dropped from the team but from the institution 
as well.
Michigan is to play Cornell in baseball this year 
in place of Notre Dame.
The student body of the University of Oregon has 
passed resolutions to the effect that every student 
should tip his hat to the president of the university 
and to his own particular dean.
There is a precedent at Kansas that the man who 
proves to be a successful cheer leader shall retain 
his position throughout his college course. This cheer 
leader, besides leading the yells, invents color 
schemes to be used at the games.
Manager Yack of the Grand Opera House of New 
Haven has asked the Yale students to co-operate 
with him in fighting the ticket speculators. One spec
ulator has been arrested.
Fresh Ideas and Ideals is the name of a Fresh
man weekly paper at Drake University.
0\05ca*0S0X0\0V0\0%0\0%0\0\o*o\o*o\o*'* 00 THE SCHENLEY FARMS ** 0
& The Garden Spot of Pittsburgh ^
^ The place to live for convenience, pleasure and * 
H profit. *
0 ?^XOS0\0X0%0X0X0X0*0X0%0%0X0X0X0X0X0S;
Bell Phone
DRESS SUIT RENTAL CO.
522 Pittsburg Life Building 
liberty Ave. and Sixth St:, Pittsburg, Pa.
We have for rental Full Dress Suits, Tuxedos, Prince Alberts, White Vests, Opera Hats.
M acDonalds
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice CreamFancy BoxesBaskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
************************************
* * $ Bellefield Presbyterian Church %
CAMPBELL COYLE, Minister
9.45 A. M.Brotherhood Bible Study. 
11:00 A.M.Morning Service.
7:00 P.M.Y. P. S. C. E.
8:00 P. M.Evening Service.
All Tech Faculty and Student Body Welcome
At the University of Minnesota a prize of ten dol
lars is being offered to the student who made the 
most money during the last summer vacation.
It has been announced at Pennsylvania that 
Ramsdell, the sprinter and football player, will pro
bably take a post-graduate course next year. He is 
eligible to another year of athletics.
It costs Yale freshman on a average $1,033 per year. 
Upper classman spend more. Few get along on less 
than $500.
Artesian wells at the Yale gymnasium will supply 
the Carnegie pool with water at the rate of 30,000 
gallons an hour.
A china loving cup is*to be awarded at Williams 
by the vote of the college to the football player who 
shows most improvement during the past season.
The Aero Club of Boston Tech recently visited an 
aeroplane factory.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TRTAN15
GOOD CLOTHES CHEAPER
504-506 Federal St., North Side
Whep the question, What does Lafayette need 
most? was asked 98 freshman, 75 answered A new 
gymnasium.
Sophomores at Lafayette a short time ago attended 
a theatre performance, but Eastons police force of 
two officers persuaded them to cut short their ap
proval of the show. Such is the majesty of the law.
Coach Coy of Yale advocates a system of careful 
coaching of Yale freshman, who are not allowed on 
the university eleven, in order that seasoned players 
will be available when the men reached their second 
college year.
 The Harvard Law School football team is planning 
to take a trip south during the Christmas vacation 
to play games at Baton Rouge, La.; and Memphis, 
Tenn.
According to tht latest directory of living graduates 
of Yale there are 15,958 persons who have received 
diplomas from the University now living. Of these 
2.454 reside in New York and 212 in Pittsburgh.
Football captains:
Yale, Arthur Howe, 12.
Lehigh, C. R. Wylie, 13.
Case, F. M. Roby.
Waynesburg, Ragan Pipes.
Platonic Friendship: The interval between the in
troduction and the first kiss.Clipped.
Yale and Cornell have signed contracts to play 
three hockey games at Chicago the nights of Decem
ber 30, 31,and January 2.
That fellow over there makes little things count.
Indeed.
Yes; he teaches arithmetic to the Freshman 
class..Ex.
At a recent Glee and Mandolin Club concert at Cor
nell the entire house was sold out in half an hour.
The committee on student affairs at Stanford Uni
versity fined a student ten hours extra work for crib
bing besides expelling the pupil from the course.
Beginning with next fall, Brown University will 
have the two-semester system instead of the present 
three-term division.
***/*X****
See the Tartan Manager for student rates on 
the following scientific papers;
The Electric Railway Journal 
The Electrical World 
The Engineering Record
*********+
5iSOS!^5^O5^OS^55~0i!~O55~O5?SO>?~O55SOS5ap
1 Oswald Werner & Sons Co. |
C(( Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest K
TuDyeing and Cleaning Works
For specials occasions when you want the best try Duquesne, the coffee of quality; one cartons, 30c lb.
GEO. K. STEVENSON CO.
Sixth Avenue opp. Trinity Church 
Highland and Center Avenues, East End
MSJ3SJ3i3i di cijaMSM5i3J3MSi3M3i3SI3ISMSlISi3iSM5I3I3Jp
Bell Phone Cleaning, Dyeing,1212-J Schenley Repairing and Pressing
LIEBLI1TG BROS.
-------Merchant Tailors-------
327 South Craig St. Pittsburg, Pa.
5J2M33J3J3M3ISMSMSM3M5MSM3MSM3I3J3J3J3ISM3IS1BJ3
LISTEN, STUDENTS!
What is appreciated more than a photograph for a Christmas gift? This coupon and $1.25 at studio entitles students to six beautiful College Panel Photos.
OAKLAND STUDIO,
Forbes and Atwood Streets
Open Sundays. WALTER G. STEUERNAGEL, Prop.
*W*+*
Boys: Youll do well to come in and look 
at our Suits, Overcoats or Furnishings when 
in need. Well give you a square deal.
COHNS
PENN AND COLLINS EAST END
Go where all the fellows go to get a haircut, 
shave, and massage. Tech Barber Shop, corner 
Craig and Forbes Street.

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
* X
I For Christmas I
EAT HALLERS MINCE PIE
HALLERS FRUIT CAKE
HALLERS PUMPKIN CUSTARD,
HALLERS ICE CREAM
3618 Forbes Avenue,
%*%*\*\*\*\*%*%*\*%*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* 4*B. & B.
men's hats $1.85
Black Stiff Hatslatest Winter styles$3.00 
and $4.00 Felts in which the maker has found 
some unnoticeable and harmless flaw.
Made for us on our best Winter blocks so 
they look like our regular $3.00 and $4.00 Hats 
good silk trimmings and imported leathers, 
$1.85.
BOGGS & BUHL
?*?******4**4**********4VfrV4\4-\4\4\4Vfr\4>\4\4N4N4%4\4\4-V4\4\
a*0\a\oNG\o*ovo*a\o%0\o\a*0\QVG*o%a*
i MELLON NATIONAL BANK |
g 514 SMITH FI ELD STREET g
g 409 MFTH AVENUE g
4,4*4*4,44*4,4*4,4,4*J*v4,4,4J4,4*44*4'4*4,4*,Z**I,!'44,,i,4**>v4*4,V 4*A
FORBES STREET PHARMACY
DO U KNO? We -y a full line of: 
Ankle Braces, Wristbands, Knee Caps, Station
ery, School Supplies. Etc.
Our Sanitary Soda Fountain is Unexcelled
4j Reymers, Johnstons and Park & Tilfords Con* 
4* fections always fresh and plenty to select from. * * t
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
CAPITAL
SURPLUS
$4,000,000 g 
s$3,200,0008
A.G. SPALDING* BROS.
THE SPALDiNG
TRADEMARK
Is knswn throughout the 
world is a Guarantee of 
Quality.
Are the Largest Manufacturers in the World of
OFFICIAL
EQUIPMENT
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes
iV^II are interested in lUU Athletic Sport you 
should have a copy of the 
Spalding Catalogue. Its a 
complete encyclopedia o f 
WHATS NEW IN SPORT 
and is sent free on request.A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
439 Wood St., Pittsburg Pa.
4*4**4-*4-+4**4-4*4**4*4*4*4*4*4*4-4*4*4-4*f4*4*4*4*414*4*4*4.4-4*4-4*4-44-4*4-4*4-V4-4-
4'44*4*4<4,4'4*44>4,4*4>4*4(4'4*44>4a4t4*44a4'4>4>4I4>4>I'>>44M?l
4* 4*Ask for Cash Register Coupons
Return $5.00 worth of these Coupons and re
ceive a Leather Bill Folder.
P/TTSRGfPA. i
The Worlds Best Hatters Make
Soft Hats and Caps for Comfort, Sport or 
Travel. Derbies, . Silk and Opera Hats for 
Dress. The best only from the World's Best 
Hatters.
OTTO OETTING 
Seventh & Smithfield. Fifth & Wylie.
