TARTAN
March 20,1979 Volume 79, Number 26Carnegie-MelIon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Miczek Denied Tenure Despite Reputation
Psycho-pharmacologist Klaus Miczek, 
j who recently hit the national spotlight for 
I his research into drug effects on aggression, 
I will probably be headed for Tufts 
( University next year. Denied tenure by the 
Psychology department here at CMU, 
Miczek was offered a full, tenured profes
sorship and his own new research labs at 
Tufts.
In the past few months, Miczek has 
been the subject of a number of articles 
and television reports (including CBS 
Sixty Minutes). His research led him to 
believe that recreational drugs, including 
marijuana, do not cause agressive be
havior, and in most cases, can actually 
cause users.to become less violent.
Miczek has compiled a substantial 
research record since he came to CMU 
seven years ago. After obtaining a research 
grant in his first year here, Miczeks appli
cations have never been turned down by 
foundations offering grant money. He has 
published over 30 papers and is cited as a 
reference in ever psychopharmacology 
textbook published since 1975. His A 
Phi 0 evaluation ratings are above the
psychology department average, and three 
years ago, when he was promoted to 
Associate Professor, the department gave 
him a rating of excellent. Miczek said 
that he has published more in the past 
three years than ever before, and his 
research grants have doubled.
I havent fought the decision to deny 
my tenure, Miczek said, but Ive asked 
for an explanation why, and have yet to 
receive it. I wrote to Dr. Gregg 
in late September and he still 
hasnt answered me.
Contacted by the TARTAN, Gregg said, 
After a long process of evaluation, univer
sity committees decided not to offer him 
tenure. He did not satisfy the criteria for 
promotion and tenure both in terms of 
teaching and research. National publicity 
and ones role in a university are two 
different things. In any case, Dr. Miczek 
will probably be better off somewhere else. 
We couldnt generate the funds to renovate 
his labs and as they are , they no longer meet 
national standards for animal care. 
Although Gregg claims that the decision 
to drop Miczek was independent of the
Dr.be doing his nationally known research elsewhere next year.
decision not to expand the psycho-phar
macology lab facilities, a number of 
Miczeks associates, and Miczek himself, 
feel there is a direct relation. And when 
Miczek first heard that there might be 
plans for a phasing out of his facilities, he 
asked for an early tenure decision. He
wanted his future and future of his lab 
considered at the same time in a package 
deal.
I wouldnt mind the decision, as long 
as the committee would have looked at the 
facts, the quality of my citations, and the 
continued on page 9
Tarp Sets New Dorm Ablaze
Cushing Phillips, director of Physical Plant, believes that the small fire on the roof of the new dorm 
was caused by propane space heaters.
by Stanley J. Cieslak
Last Thursday at 1:00 AM, firemen were 
called to douse a small fire in the B 
building of the new Margaret Morrison 
Street dormitories.
According to Cushing Phillips, Physical 
Plant Director, the fire was caused by 
portable propane heaters which the con
tractor was using to prevent freshly laid 
mortar from freezing, due to the great drop 
in temperature this past week.
Apparently, a polyethylene tarp, which 
was used overnight by the contractors to 
cover the freshly laid brick and heaters, 
was blown by the gusting winds onto one
of the heaters and ignited the small blaze. 
Phillips stated that the controversial in
sulation played no role in the fire. He add
ed that rubber flashing, which is placed 
between the upper part of windows and 
the next layer of bricks to keep water off 
the windows, ignited and made the blaze 
appear worse than it actually was.
The extent of the damage was limited to 
the contractors equipment and charred 
bricks. Phillips concluded that the tab from 
the damage will be the contractors loss. 
The fire will be a temporary setback but 
will cause no major change in completion 
plans.
Administration Plans Extensive Grounds Landscaping
by Stuart Seidman
Recognizing that the physical appear
ance of the CMU campus is not what it 
could be, the University has announced 
that a master plan for beautifying the cam
pus is being prepared. The plans to improve 
the campus appearance are extensive, will 
take several years to complete, and will 
cost several hundred thousand dollars. The 
first phase of the project will begin this 
spring and will include the planting of 
dozens of new trees.
According to Dr. Richard Van Horn, 
whom President Cyert has put in charge of 
the project. The University has realized
that the campus appearance was impor
tant.
The first phase of the projects, which be
gins in several weeks, will be planting trees 
along the sidewalks between Baker and 
Doherty Halls, leading down to Hamerschlag Hall. At one time these sidewalks 
had many trees but over the last decade, 
many of the trees have succumbed to the 
Pittsburgh pollution and have had to be cut 
down.
, The new landscape architects for the 
University, Environmental Planning and 
Design (EP&D), have conducted an exten
sive campus survey to see what the admin
istration and the students felt was needed, 
along with consulting previous reports pre
pared on improving the campus. Van Horn 
has instructed EP&D that they are to pre
serve the basic ideas of Hornbostle and 
Phil Simons, the partner in charge of the 
project, informed the TARTAN that they 
are very concerned about enhancing the 
original Beaux-Arts buildings while creat
ing new places for students to meet and re
lax during the day.
Environmental Planning and Design is a 
nationally known and respected landscape 
architecture firm located in Pittsburgh. 
Their best known local project was the 
Penn Mall in East Liberty. They have also 
recently completed a plan for rebuilding 
Grant Street in the Golden Triangle.
While the only work to be completed 
this year will be the planting of new trees, 
work in the future will include new side
walks, benches, a Doherty Hall plaza, and 
terracing by the tennis courts.
EP&D is currently working on the des
ign of these items but the general ideas 
have been outlined to the TARTAN. One 
of the Universitys major headaches has 
been the maintenance of the concrete 
sidewalks. What is being discussed is pav
ing over the concrete with asphalt and linAccording to the administration's plans, the mall near Science Hall will be forested once again.
ing the sidewalks with brick trim. This is 
part of the Universitys effort to change 
oyer to low maintenance items. Along with 
this, the possibility of building seating 
areas along the cut overlooking the Bureau 
of Mines is being considered.
A primary goal of the program will be 
to improve the appearance of the campus
from Forbes Avenue and of Forbes Avenue 
from the campus. Plans for this are still 
nebulous and could not be released.
The largest project most likely will be 
new terracing around the tennis courts. 
The basic idea here is to create outdoor 
patio spaces stepping down the hill so 
continued on page 8

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN^
CMU is doing quite well, thank you.
Thank who, and says who?
Yes, CMU is in the big time. We pay big money to go 
here. We measure ourselves against other big-time schools. 
We interview with big-ASSeted companies and we boast 
about big-shot alumni. Our reputation to the outside world 
and our research and teaching activities are growing. But 
now that we've settled ourselves into the major leagues 
(as a class school), do we deserve to be where we claim we
arerThe State of 
the University*
Our President loves Carnegie-Mellon, and he wants the 
rest of the world to love it too. His eyes light up when he 
sees CMU mentioned in TIME or U.S. NEWS AND WORLD 
REPORT. Although he might not admit it, his dream-cometrue would be to walk into work one morning to find a let
ter from the Ivy League on his desk. "Dear Dr. CyertCongrats!! We'd like your school to join us. Oh, and we'll 
be changing your arch-rival from Bethany to Yale. 
Forgetting about his dreams, and analyzing him real
istically, Dr. Cyert is a concerned leader, respected by his 
colleagues. He sincerely wants students and faculty mem
bers to be happy at CMU, and it seems hes set up almost as 
many committees to "look into things  as there are things 
to look into.
However, Dr. Cyert, (with all his random-student lunches, 
open office hours, WRCT-talk shows, and student advisory 
committees,) has trouble being liked, appreciated or under
stood. And he has trouble understanding student concerns.
Part of his problem has a simple remedy. He has to keep 
up with whats going on at CMU. Dr. Cyert doesnt read 
the TARTAN unless one of his aides points out an article 
to him. The letters section alone can give him insights into 
what students are hot about. If he would skim the 
TARTAN each week, read the Senate minutes, and Press 
the flesh  by getting out onto campus to meet students, his 
relationship with students could improve. (He once lunched 
at More wood and liked the results. Why doesnt he try it 
again?) In terms of running CMU as a business, he is superb. 
But to run CMU like a family, he must take a different 
approach.
Cyerts Vice Presidents, Deans and Directors all take their 
jobs and responsibilities seriously. The President isnt afraid 
to fire administrators if he thinks theyre not working out, 
so the people who run CMU are pretty much on their toes.
CMU Leadership: B+
The Ivy League is just a frame of mind, so CMU can al
most call itself "the last of the Ivys.  Ivy League graduates 
get jobs because of the renoun of their school, and CMUs 
grads tend to have the same good luck. In Engineering, 
Fine Arts, and GSIA, CMU has a heck of a good reputation.
But are we getting a quality education?
Naturally, it varies. But CMU graduates tend to be com
petent once they get jobs, and that fact can only speak well 
of CMU. And regardless of the importance research plays at 
CMU, Deans and administrators are sincere when they say 
education comes first.
H&SS, the former black sheep of the CMU family, is 
coming into its own with worthwhile programs and majors, 
high quality faculty members, and a strong Dean who is 
willing to turn things around. H&SS students arent as 
ashamed as they used to be because they came to CMU, 
and theres even a sense of pride running through Baker/ 
Porter.
Of course, there are problems with the educational pro
cess here, and we have to attack them and erase them as 
they come up. And when were not getting our moneys 
worth, we must complain to the right authorities until 
the wrongs are righted.
EDUCATIONAL QUALITY AND 
SCHOOL'S REPUTATION: AState Schools have some things over the Ivys and CMU; 
fantastic student union buildings, good sports and recre
ational facilities, and scores of school sponsored activities
Continued on page 5
*The State of the University is Pennsylvania.
Letters
Let's be Serious!
Editor.
A topic of concern that can 
hardly be overlooked is that of 
the division that exists between 
the various departments and col
leges on campus. Instead of trying 
to achieve unity between the de
partments, the situation seems to 
be getting worse. In fact, an event 
occurred a few weeks ago that 
could be looked at as a step in the 
wrong direction. This event was 
the Beaux Arts Ball. The Ball was 
open only to Fine Arts majors and 
their guests; closed to the remain
der of the campus. The reasons 
behind this exclusion of the rest 
of the campus can only be spec
ulated upon.
It seems odd that other depart
ments on this campus such as 
MIS, CIT, or AMS do not hold 
their own Balls. (Please pardon 
the pun.) For some reason, the 
Fine Arts people think that they 
should hold an exclusive affair of 
this type. Perhaps the people in
Fine Arts think they exist on 
jome level above the general cam
pus. As of yet, we have not seen 
any evidence of this. Let us think 
realistically for a second here. 
Most Fine Arts majors will be 
driving a cab by the time they are 
thirty. Can you imagine paying 
$28,000 to learn to play the trom
bone? Lets be serious!
Well! We seem to have wander
ed a bit. The point we are trying 
to make is that if the ball were 
open to all departments, a step in 
the direction of a unified campus 
would have been accomplished. 
Instead, another layer of bricks 
was put on the wall between de
partments. A great opportunity 
was foregone, and substituted in 
its place was an act of further seg
regation of the campus popula
tion.
D-6 Doherty
Racial tensions 
JEditor;
Recently, because of the cele
bration of Black History Week
here on campus, I began to notice 
certain aspects of our society that 
are very curious and disturbing to 
me.
For the past few years racial 
tensions in America have not been 
a subject for open discussion. 
And, it seems to me that the gen
eral opinion is that the topic of 
civil rights has been officially and 
permanently settled. It has been 
my observation that, in general, 
whites feel that everything is be
ing handed to blacks on a silver 
platter. And, conversely, blacks 
feel that the whites use their eco
nomic position to try and keep 
them at a disadvantage. Now, it 
occurs to me that through relaxed 
and open communication, this 
gulf might be reconciled. But, I 
dont think that it will ever be set
tled with violent insults muttered 
under ones breath, or in the se
curity of ones friends. Which 
seems to be both sides solution to 
the obvious faults in the system.
At one time seperate but
TARTAN
Volume 79March 20, 1979Number 26
Editor-in-ChiefJeff Zaslow
Managing EditorsJean Pellegrini
V. R. V. Ramanan
Business ManagerStephanie Waite
News EditorBrian Byrnes
Features EditorMory Brenner
FOLIO EditorK. A. Yaksich
Entertainment EditorJoan Livitski
Sports EditorsHoward Turner
Perry Colosimo
Photography EditorSkip Brazelton
Production ManagerNeil Adler
Art DirectorDianne Lauble
Assistant News and Features EditorLeslie Weiser
Assistant News Editor: Andrew Hagan
Assistant Features Editor: Susan Borq
Production Assistant: Doug Kir sop
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie Mellon University TARTAN The Fditonal Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. I unded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

BUI Kapner, a sophomore in H&SS, gives his view on modern revolution.VIEWS
The scenario of modern revolu
tion within non-West nations sel
dom seems to vary from country 
to country. A ruthless dictator 
who has exploited the people is 
overthrown by either the military 
or another political faction. While 
the revolutionary parties claim to 
be fighting for justice and a hu
manitarian rule, they are equally 
or more unjust and inhumane 
when they obtain power. The 
Khmer-Rouge takeover of Cam
bodia a few years ago is a classic 
example. The Khmer-Rouge was a 
communist revolutionary party 
which claimed to represent the 
needs and desires of the people. 
When the Khmer-Rouge did final
ly come to power, however, the 
people were subjected to some of 
the worst atrocities imaginable. 
Those who lived in the cities were 
forced to evacuate their homes 
and move to rural labor farms. All 
Cambodian were forced to live 
sparsely and thousands were ex
ecuted. On many labor farms cit
izens were shot on sight for such 
actions as talking to members of 
the opposite sex and slouching 
work responsibilities. These and
similar horror stories have repeat
edly been told by those Cambo
dians lucky enough to escape to 
neighboring Thailand or Vietnam. 
Very recently the Khmer-Rouge 
government was overthrown by a 
Vietnamese faction and the fate 
of its people is once again uncer
tain.
Four years ago in Ethiopia the 
Emperor Haile Selassie was over
thrown, allegedly because of gross 
violations of human rights. At the 
forefront of the revolution were 
students, labor leaders and the 
military. Shortly after the"coup, 
however, a committee of military 
men known as the Dergue seiz
ed power. The regime of the Der
gue, headed by Lt. Mengistu 
Mariam, has been marked by a 
multitude of atrocities. During a 
two month period in late 1977 
police and army squads murdered 
5000 high school and university 
students following a severe ideo
logical split between the countrys 
intelligentsia and the military. 
Amnesty International, a London 
based organization devoted to hu
man rights, reported that during 
this two month period 12 year old
children were among the students 
immersed in hot oil, sexually tor
tured and flung out the windows 
to rot in the hot sun. Public exec
utions of Mengistus political op
ponents are now almost daily oc
currences on the streets of the 
nightmarish capital city of AddisAbaba.However ruthless Haile Salassies rule actually was, it seems 
highly unlikely that the Dergue re
gime is any less guilty of severe 
human rights violations.
During the past month we have 
witnessed the overthrow of the 
Shah of Iran by a revolutionary 
party led by Ayatollah Khomeni. 
The Shah was no doubt a despot 
who terribly exploited his people. 
Under the rule of the Shah, the 
general population of Iran lived in 
dire poverty while the Shah and 
his royal family lived in opulent 
splendor. The undesirable living 
conditions of the people were ac
centuated by the great wealth of 
Iran in terms of the worlds most 
precious natural resource, oil. 
The new Moslem regime of Kho
meini must be viewed with skepti
cism. From the holy city of Qom, 
Khomeini plans to transform Iran
into a theocracy, a government 
based on religious laws and cus
toms. Western culture and ideol
ogy are to be replaced by Moslem 
holy men. The European court 
system with its appeals proced
ure was recently abandoned.
Signs of instability are already 
apparent within the new govern
ment. Khomeini appointed Mehdi 
Bazargan prime minister shortly after the revolution. Bazargan now 
learns of state activities such as 
executions and appointments only 
after they have occurred. This de
nial of respect and authority has 
prompted him to twice announce 
his resignation. Each time, how
ever, Khomeini has turned down 
his resignation requests. It has 
been speculated by a number of 
analysts that the Ayatollah is us
ing Bazargan, in his capacity as 
prime minister, merely as a figure 
head in an attempt to convince 
both Iranians and westerners of 
the legitimacy of the new regime. 
In the aftermath of the revolution 
with the absolute dictatorship of 
the ruthless Shah still very fresh in 
people's minds, Khomeini is being 
careful not to make the regime ap
pear to be a one man show.
Bands of Moslem revolutionar
ies are currently acting as vigilanties brutally punishing and some
times executing the enemies of 
the revolution solely at their dis
cretion. In the early days of the 
regime the revolutionary commi
ttees were under the direct super
vision of Khomeini himself. Now 
they seem to be acting autono
mously. Khomeini has admitted 
that the situation is way out of 
hand and has issued public state
ments calling for the group to put 
an end to their violence. At this 
point his actions have been to lit
tle or no avail.
Its possible, and perhaps even 
likely, that the Iranian people will 
be treated .with more respect and 
dignity under the new Islamic rule 
than during the reign of the Shah. 
However, skepticism should not 
yet be abandoned. Together, the 
lessons learned from recent his
tory and the current events with
in Iran itself should provide suffi
cient warning to remain pessimis
tic about the future success of Ay
atollah Khomeinis Islamic govern
ment.more Letters
equal was a concept against 
which people, both black and 
white, were willing to publicly 
protest. Now it seems that this 
has become the ideal of both 
parties. There are black televi
sion programs and comerciis, 
black churches, black music, black 
nightclubs, a black caucus in the 
congress, a black national anthem, 
black newspapers and magazines, 
and just on this campus, a black 
fraternity and a black sorority, 
and a black student organization 
which rents its housing from the 
university. Personally I dont be
lieve that these organizations are 
bad in themselves. I realize that 
they are the direct result of the 
hatred of the past, in which such 
things were necessary. And per
haps they still are necessary. But, 
it has been my observation that 
organizations such as these, and 
their white counterparts only 
serve to increase the gap between 
the races. They seem to promote 
the separation and feeling of 
mutual alienation that seems pre
valent in this country at the mo
ment. Please do not think that 
these establishments are, in my 
opinion the cause of the prob
lems. I believe that these are 
merely symptoms. Unfortunately 
I can offer no solutions to the 
situation. But, I do know that 
one cant ignore problems such as 
these and expect them to go 
away. They are like an infection 
at the root of our society, and left 
untreated they will invariably 
fester and erupt with terrible con
sequences.
Christopher M. OConner 
Drama 1981
Who can spell?
Editor:
file other day jn the library, an 
advanced level engineering student 
asked me how to spell arrogant. 
Ik needed to know the spelling so 
he could look up the word in the 
dictionary. Maybe he didnt know 
die word's meaning.
I was' shocked, not only be
cause a university student would 
ask such a question, but because 
this same student did not know 
how to use the dictionary to 
check spelling; one of the books 
main uses.
Perhaps this is caused by the 
fact that most fields are growing 
tremendously each year and that 
students must spend more time on 
their major relative to their coun
terparts of years past. Effective 
education then becomes a battle 
to reconcile a glut of information 
to a short four-year time cons
traint. Non-major courses suffer.
CMU must realize that engin
eering is in large part commun
ication between parties, and that 
each party must have the ability 
to effectively express its (sic) 
views. A soon-to-be graduate who 
Cannot even spell arrogant, nor 
properly use a dictionary, does 
not seem to possess these 
important communication skills.
A graduate may be well-prep
ared for his job, a major part of 
his life, but will he be able to ef
fectively deal with the environ
ment he will be exposed to when 
he leaves CMUs protective halls? 
It is a world possessing a practical
ly infinite amount of information, 
with engineering being but a 
snowflake of this information ice
berg. A student whose spelling 
and resources aptitude lies at the 
grade school level does not seem 
to be adequately prepared. This 
debases CMUs education to mere 
training.Paul Henderson 
H&SS 1979 
Congratulations
Editor:
1 would like to take this oppor
tunity to congratulate Gusti Sunseri on his election to the Student 
Senate. I know that without a 
doubt he will serve with the high
est degree of enthusiasm and com
mon interest.
Andy Lerner 
AMS Senate Candidate
Strike One
Editor:
Being an avid fan of baseball, 
Frederic Siegels column (from 
its title) sounded like it would be 
imaginative, creative and even a 
bit provacative. However, it was 
no more than the broken-record 
stuff that seems to be copied out 
of some baseball magazine.
Concerning his remarkable 
insights in the American League 
East, he makes the ridiculous 
claim of calling the Yankees undefeatable. Yes, the Yankees do 
have a Famous pitching staff but 
without Guidry, Gossage, and 
Figueroa look what they have: 
a bunch of aging, worn-out arms. 
Im talking about Humes, Tiant, 
Tidrow, and Gullet. Together 
these four Superstars had a 
remarkable combined record of 
36-27 last season. I forgot to add 
the Bionic Arm (Tommy John) 
who knows what he had reconst
ructed last year, that is besides his 
inflated salary. I am not denying 
that the Yankees have a very tal
ented ballclub, but their pitching 
does not make them invincible. 
Of all the relief pitchers on their 
40-man roster, disregarding Gos
sage, the remaining pitchers had a 
combined total of two saves in 
all of last year. Not much depth if 
you ask me. I sure hope Gossage 
is healthy because he can expect 
alot of action. As long as you 
seem to be copying your informa
tion, unless you really 
think the Yankees are as strong as 
they are rich, you should check it 
out. Moose Haas not Moose Hass. 
By the way if you are such a great 
fan why dont you know his real 
first name?
Michael Herskovitz
Fundamentals first
Editor.
I would like to thank Ms. Shaw 
and Mr. Hilfinger for addressing 
my previous letter (TARTAN 
1/30) concerning the cost of an 
education at this school in their
letter in last weeks TARTAN. 
There does seem to be, however, a 
misunderstanding about its con
tent. Nowhere in my letter is it 
stated that technical knowledge is 
unimportant to or exclusive from 
engineering. This would certainly 
be a ridiculous statement. Perhaps 
I can make my position clearer 
I completely agree that this 
school should teach the funda
mental concepts, principles, and 
techniques of the engineering 
sciences. I believe this school 
does so, very well. I do not agree, 
however, with Ms. Shaws and Mr. 
Hilfingers idea that this automa
tically increases the students 
grasp of engineering. Knowing 
the fundamentals and principles 
allows one to solve problems at 
hand but engineering is the art, if
you will, of defining the Problem. 
This concept is probably best 
stated in the excerpt below from 
the January 11, 1977 course de
scription for ASE I.
The work of the engineer is 
problem solving  it is also prob
lem identification. Some prob
lems, in fact many of them, can 
be dealt with by routines and 
handbook information, but the 
reputation you achieve as an 
individual depends not upon these 
but upon your success in dealing 
with new situations. Most of your 
technical courses, like physics, 
chemistry, and mathematics, help 
you learn new concepts, princi
ples, and methods, upon which 
your engineering work is based. 
Although applications are given, 
there is a gap between knowing a 
principle and knowing when and 
how to use it in an unfamiliar 
situation. The end-of-chapter 
problems are made easier because 
you know that the principle dis
cussed in the chapter will apply 
However in professional engi
neering work one often has to 
search for a principle and con
sciously plan how to use it.
This, to me, is the essense of 
engineering as opposed to tech
nology.
I repeat from my previous let
ter, engineering can only be 
learned on the job not in a school. 
It would not be practical to teach 
engineering in school to a greater 
extent than is done in this school 
now as there is much too much 
technology that must be learned 
in the 4 years time of an under
graduate education. It is essential 
that this technology be learned as 
the engineering process is totally 
dependent on it, yet the corollary 
is not true, technology is not de
pendant on engineering. Because 
of this, simply learning all the 
technology possible does not 
guarantee that one will be a suc
cessful engineer. One must de
velop the art of engineering and 
there is now and has been work 
done by psychologists and engi
neers to understand the creative 
process to help develop the art.
Now that I have, hopefully, 
better defined my position I will 
reiterate the main point of my 
previous letter. That point was, 
that technology, meaning the 
fundamentals and principles, can 
be and are taught at lesser 
schools on par with CMU, so why 
pay the extra money? This has 
been answered to some extent 
but I still cannot help but wonder.
David S. McGhee 
Junior CIV-E
Responsibility
Editor:
At the end of 1979, the statute 
of limitations for Nazi war crimi
nals will run out. This means that 
all Nazi war criminals who have 
not been indicted will go free. 
The very people who were re
sponsible for the Holocaust will 
never have to accept the respons
ibility for their crimes.
Joseph Mengele, the physician 
at Auchwitz who performed hor
rifying experiments on Jewish 
prisoners, has never been brought
to justii 
to run c 
Nazis i
II
fell
cnu'/\n

---------------------------------------------------

Ht!
Roger Jaussi, UFO President, takes the Senate to task.VIEWS
In the past, murmurs have been 
heard around campus about how 
Senate has abused power, misallocated funds and put special 
interest groups in front of the 
needs and interests of the general 
University community. Many 
brush these allogations off as part 
of the petty bickering that is 
involved in any political situation. 
I too, never paid much attention 
and figured the Senate was a body 
with good faith and integrity. 
Recent actions of the body that 
some 18% of the students elect, 
have turned these rumors into 
hard facts.
A primary responsibility of 
Senate is to allocate the $30 we 
all pay as an Activities Fee. One 
would think the needs of the 
general campus should be met 
before special interests. One
would think Senate would desire 
to be fair and just in handling the 
$100,000 plus kitty that we work 
so hard for during the summer. 
One would think we should be 
able to respect and have confi
dence in the legislative body we 
elect. Just as one should think 
that we could walk safely along 
the streets of our cities, what one 
should think isnt always reality. 
Our elected Senate is virtually a 
farce. The idealism and campaign 
rhetoric we hear is plain bull.
The interests of special groups 
are placed above the entire 
campus in several instances. I 
dont intend to present the usual 
rhetoric one hears with political 
critism. Instead, I offer hard facts.
At the last Senate meeting, the 
budget for 1979-1980 was 
presented. Admittedly, the job of
allocating $118,000 is not easy. 
However, a look at the statistics 
indicate that there are serious 
improprieties in the budgeting 
process.
Lets look at the facts and 
figures. Several organizations 
which we direct at the entire 
campus community actually 
had allocations decreased over last 
years total while some special 
interest groups that appeal to only 
a small portion of the student 
body had their subsidies increased. 
For example, the Activities Board 
had their subsidy cut from 
$57,885 to $55,224. The 
TARTAN, a paper which is virtu
ally the only sounding board that 
students have and one of the 
primary modes of communication 
on campus, had their subsidy cut 
from $22,122 to $20,648. These
figures are fact, not rhetoric.
On the other side of the coin, 
such special interest organizations 
as the Club Francophone, 
Computer Club and Explorers 
Club all had their subsidies 
increased by as much as 138%. 
In at least one of the cases where 
a special interest group had .an 
increase, a member of the particu
lar group and also a Senator 
pushed for the increase.
These accusations are as 
expressed above, substantiated by 
fact. Student Government borders 
on being an outright travesty. Its 
time for us to seriously question 
what we have as government.
Senate now consists, for the 
most part, of petty bureaucrats 
concerned about their own 
interests and egos. For the most,
they could care less about what 
we non-Senators think. You might 
say this is becoming rhetoric of 
my own, but again, I back up my 
statements with fact.
At this last Senate meeting, a 
motion was made which would 
allow 15 minutes of the meeting 
to informal interaction and discus
sion among the Senate and 
audience. Undoubtedly it would 
seem as if the Senate would 
welcome thoughts and ideas from 
their constituents and fellow 
Senators. Surely it would give 
fresh insights into their legislative 
deliberations. The fact of the 
matter is that the Senate defeated 
this motion. Is it too much to ask 
our elected officials to take just 
15 minutes of their time to listen? 
After all, the position of Student 
Senator should be much more 
than a filler on a resume.
more Letters
Many people are urging the 
West German Government to re
peal the statute of limitations in 
this instance, so that the Nazi war 
criminals may be brought to trial 
whenever they are found. If you 
feel that the statute of limitations 
should be waived in this case, 
please express yoyr opinions to 
Chancellor Schmidt, Bonn, West 
Germany.
Cathrine Fischer 
Don't tamper
Editor:
Recently, there have been 
many cases of tampering with the 
terminals in the Public Terminal 
Room on the fifth floor of Sci
ence Hall. Fuses have been taken 
from terminals and attempts to re
place them by other users have re
sulted in broken power boards. 
Key tops have been removed from 
the keyboards. This tampering 
renders the terminals less available 
for use and causes added work for 
the Hardware Staff. When a termi
nal is down and there is no hard
ware malfunction report on the 
terminal, fill out a hardware mal
function report and turn it into 
Room 5216 of Science Hall (the 
Computation Center main office.)
The Computer Policy Commi
ttee has recently recommended 
that anyone caught tampering 
with terminals in the Public Ter
minal Room or using any of the 
computing services in a malicious 
manner will have his/her use of 
the computers suspended and he/ 
she will be reported to the Univer
sity Adjutant for disciplinary ac
tion.
Frances Bardello Craig 
Director of User Services
Take a joke
Editor:
I am amazed and disturbed to 
see how little thought was shown 
in the reactions to the hackers 
letter of two weeks ago. For those 
who havent heard the story, let 
me tell you what happened to the 
hackers (of which I am one) as a 
result of that letter.
The original letter was a joke 
letter sent in response to another 
joke letter. Some people chose to 
take it seriously, though. This 
includes many high placed mem
bers of the administration. All 
that they seemed to see was the 
line which claimed that we were
the ones who crashed the com
puter. These high placed people 
decided that they didnt like that, 
so in their wisdom decided that 
we didnt belong on the machines. 
So our accounts were frozen.
What I find so amazing is that 
anyone could have taken that 
letter seriously, especially those in 
positions to know better. Consid
er for a moment some facts about 
that letter. First of all, the whole 
letter was a joke. This should have 
been clear to anyone who read it. 
Need we label all of our jokes so 
that we arent harmed by them? 
The state of humor in this univer
sity will fall below its current low 
level.
Next, who in their right minds 
would brag that they are responsi
ble for the computer crashing, and 
then sign their names? This is the 
most unbelievable part of the 
whole thing. We were told that 
our accounts were frozen directly 
from the IDs that were signed to 
that letter. Nobody bothered to 
see who we actually were till later. 
No one stopped to think that we 
had done a really stupid thing to 
sign our IDs if we really did what 
we said. I hope that they dont 
have such a low opinion of us that 
they think were that stupid. All I 
can conclude is that nobody stop
ped to think about what they 
were reading, they just reacted to 
the one statement.
And this is what disturbs me the 
most, that nobody stopped to 
think. This is a University, a place 
where thought should be the rule, 
rather than the exception. Excel
lence, President Cyert? Excellence 
begins with an environment con
ducive to learning. An environ
ment where thought is considered 
a useful thing, to be always used 
not just on occasion. And an en
vironment where people arent 
afraid to make jokes every now 
and then.
This University has a long way to 
go if our administrators, and our 
students too, can react the way 
they did, blindly and without any 
noticeable thought. Excellence is 
a long way off.
Steven Costenoble 
Math
Nerd's rights
Editor:
I am disturbed that several rea
ders apparently took seriously the
letter from the Hackers in the 
March 6 TARTAN. We (the Hack
ers) wrote that letter as a jokeI 
am sorry that we did not make 
this clear. Specifically:
-We do not crash the comput
ers intentionally. We enjoy using 
the computers and cannot do so 
when they are down, and we have 
lost our edits because of crashes 
far more times than most users. 
When we think we know the cause 
of a crash we report it to the 
Computation Centers systems 
programmers so that the problem 
can be fixed.
-We do indeed have ethics and 
have no intention of making a liv
ing as computer criminals. My 
second major is philosophy be
cause I am interested in ethics and 
normative theory. I fully support 
the Computation Centers policy 
of denying access to malicious 
users and will continue to do what 
I can to stop the vandalism (re
moving fuses and keys from ter
minals) that has been occurring in 
the terminal room.
-We do indeed consider our
selves to be superior program
mers, but we do not believe that 
this makes us superior people. I 
enjoy the time I spend in the ter
minal room associating with and 
helping other users. It saddens me 
that the atmosphere in the ter
minal room is becoming one of 
hostility and frustration due (I 
think) to a shortage of facilities.
I quite enjoyed Steven Grays 
letter and am glad that John Suhayda expressed his concerns. Al
though I do not'agree with John, I 
can only wish that more students 
and faculty members would ex
press their views on the problems 
and purposes of the Computation 
Center.
I was bothered by the intol
erance expressed in the letter 
from Scott Dyer et al. It stated 
that nerds (people who spend 
most of their time studying) and 
people who spend large amounts 
of time using the computer are en
gaging in meaningless activity. 
Although Scott sent me an apol
ogy (thank you, Scott), I am still 
worried because I perceive a 
common prejudice toward such 
people here at CMU. These people 
have made uncommon choices 
about priorities but nonetheless
deserve the basic respect we owe 
to every human being.
The same letter suggested that 
we waste computer resources. We 
do not. Much of our use is for our 
courses, and most of our other 
programs are placed in CLOX (the 
Computer Club directory) or left 
unprotected in our own direc
tories so that other users may use 
them. Most importantly, what we 
do furthers our educational and 
career goals. I personally am very 
concerned about the problems of 
waste and scarcity of computer re
sources, and so are most Hackers. 
The lines in the terminal room are 
just as long and the computers are 
just as slow for us as for anyone 
else.
There are several things that us
ers can do to help alleviate these 
problems:
-Fill out a broken terminal rep
ort form whenever you find that a 
terminal is broken. If you dont 
know where to find a form, ask a 
user consultant or Hacker.
-Do not print files unneces
sarily. The Computation Center is 
running out of money because of 
spiralling paper costs. If possible, 
use the XI200 Printer. It uses 
cheaper paper.
-If you have complaints or sug
gestions, tell the Computation 
Center, your department, or the 
Computer Policy Committee. We 
all know that there are too few 
terminals and the load average is 
often too high for people to get 
any work done, but unless we 
make official complaints, little 
will be done to solve these prob
lems. Alternatively, you may send 
them to me (PAOB on TOPS-B or 
TOPS-C) and I will get them to 
the right people. I am also interes
ted in responses to the memo on 
Educational Computing at 
CMU posted on the bulletin 
board in the terminal room.
Philip Almquist (PAOB)
"Hacker's Rebuttal" 
Editor:
When I helped write the 
HACKERS REBUTTAL letter 
of 3/6,1 expected varied feedback. 
However, I am shocked by some 
of the things which were said in 
the letters of 3/13. We thought it 
was obvious our letter was intend
ed to be humorous. Steven Gray 
recognized our letter for what it
was intended to be, and I congrat
ulate him on his quite humorous 
reply. I apologize to anyone who 
took us seriously. To them, I give 
this serious reply.
Our claim of causing most 
crashes was meant to be as serious 
as our claim of our semesterly 
shampoos. We do not malicious
ly crash the machines. Our state
ment saying that we do was a joke 
response to a previous letter.
The claim that most of the 
hackers signing the letter of 3/6 
use Computer Science Depart
ment machines for their 311 
projects is an outright lie.
The user consultants of the 
Computation Center are very 
helpful people who have questions, 
these people on duty at any given 
time. The hackers are good pro
grammers and know the Tops-20 
system very well. We are happy to 
answer questions anyone has 
about programming problems or 
the system. So, if you have a 
problem when the terminal room 
is crowded, or it is 4:00 AM, and 
a user consultant cant be found, 
ask one of the hackers to help 
You will find us very willing to 
help.
Our special interest house is 
not designed to shut us off from 
the rest of the campus. Our main 
reason for forming the house is the. 
microcomputer hardware some of 
us possess. The house will enable 
us to interconnect our equipment 
and study hardware and software 
aspects of multiple processor 
systems. We encourage anyone 
interested in microcomputers 
or parallel processing to stop by 
next year and see our systems.
Hackers are not such bad 
people after all. Our most notable 
characteristics are a strong interest 
in computers and some slightly 
weird sleeping and eating habits.
Robert (Cowboy) Berger 
RBON
ation
Editor.
It seems our letter of last week 
generated more response than we 
expected. It was poorly worded 
and contained accusations 
which are not well supported, and 
for these we would like to apol
ogize not only to the Hackers 
but to the campus community as 
a whole.

---------------------------------------------------

March 20,1979-TART AN-Page 5
The puns were not always 
taken in the spirit in which they 
were intended. We meant no per* 
sonal slurs in any instance nor did 
we mean to single out only the 
signers of the Hackers Rebut
tal.
The 15-311 fiasco was totally 
unintended; We were wrong in ac
cusing only the hackers without 
further support. The fact is we 
still believe this may be going on 
not only in 311 but in other clas
ses. The intention of our previous 
letter was to bring attention to 
what we believe is a problem, not 
to directly (and perhaps innaccurately) accuse anyone.
In reference to our comments 
about the hackers attitudes, we 
stand as published. By this we do 
not mean to be intolerant or ar
rogant. None of us hate you or 
feelthe need for personal rev
enge; we just question the imp
ression you give of the Comp Cen
ter and the Comp Sci Department.
We realize the letter created 
more hassle than we imagined 
when we wrote it, and for this we 
can only offer our sincere apol
ogy. We realize that the hackers 
contribute much software and 
help to* the Comp Center and its 
patrons,and we certainly do not 
want to jeopardize this service.
However, we still think that 
many people disagree with the at
titudes and some of the actions of 
the hackers. This letter is not in
tended as a complete apology for 
last weeks letter. We believe that 
the hackers should carefully re
consider their actions and at
titudes in view of the recent con
troversies.
Scott Dyer 
Sherman Page 
Stumpy
Teacher comments
Editor:
I am bothered by some of the 
letters that appeared in the March
13 TARTAN in relation to Ha
ckers. The letters seem to indi
cate that Hackers are unethical, 
communist fiends. My own expe
rience has been quite the opposite.
When I took 15111 (the in
troductory programming course) I 
found the need for people to an
swer my questions at the strange 
times when I could find a free 
terminal. At least one, and often 
more, Hackers were ready and 
willing to explain patiently the in
tricacies of why the computer 
hated my program . . . this time. 
I listened with open ears to those 
Hackers and learned. Indeed, I 
learned enough to be presently 
teaching a recitation section of 
that very same course!
As a teacher, I encourage my 
students to use all the resources 
at their disposal. These resources 
include ALL of us who frequently 
use the computer and know it 
well. This means dealing with 
people who understand and main
tain such programs as EMACS and 
its PASCAL formatter, or the 
Computer Club library. These are 
the computer Hackers at CMU! 
Slightly crazy after the long hours 
spent looking over a terminal, 
but just as insane as most other 
CMU students.
I find it interesting as well 
to note that the Hackers signing 
the letter of March 6 were illegally 
using the Defense Departments 
computers for 15311 work. I 
believe the Defense Department 
would be interested in knowing 
that they own the Computer 
Science departments computers. 
While the Computer Science de
partment does do a significant 
amount of work for the Defense 
Department, it would be equiva
lent to saying that Computation 
Centers computers are owned by 
DEC. Its simply untrue. Of the 
three groups involved in work on 
the DEC20s and two of the 
groups are creating software
which will be very useful to all 
users of Computation Centers 
computers. Perhaps other users 
should be grateful rather than 
jealous.
It is true, however, that 
virtually all Hackers have accounts 
on the Computer Science Deparments computers. The Computer 
Science Department tries to hire 
the best programmers available. 
So those of us who spend large 
amounts of time working on the 
computer are often hired.
Many people may not be aware 
of the consequences of the letters 
sent to TARTAN last week. On 
Wednesday, March 14, all the 
Hackers who signed the letter of 
two weeks ago had their accounts 
frozen on all the Computation 
Center Computers. When an 
account is frozen, its owner can
not use it for any purpose (includ
ing schoolwork!). This action was 
as a response by some of this 
universities administrators to the 
letters in last weeks TARTAN. 
No queries seem to have been 
made as to the truth of the mat
ter. While the situation has now 
been rectified, it is somewhat 
disturbing to think that a letter to 
TARTAN (especially one written 
in jest, as the one in question was) 
could result in such drastic actions 
by the administration without at 
least some investigation into the 
allegations made.
I personally spend many hours 
on the DEC 20s each week. Most, 
but not all, of it is classwork. 
While this may be a significant 
amount of time compared to most 
people, it is the equivalent of an 
architect slaving many hours over 
a project. These hours are impor
tant to me as a Senior who in 
May will go out into the Real 
World and do programming. Im 
grateful for the large amount of 
time that certain hackers have 
spent answering my questions 
about programming and compu
ters. If I hadnt had that initial 
help, I probbly would never have 
gone on in the field that I now 
love very much. If John Suhayda, 
Scott Dyer, Sherman Page, and 
Eric Joft want to call me a Hacker 
for that, so be it.
Alyson L. Abramowitz
SHAMPOO .PAS 
Editor:
To all filthy, long-haired commu
nist computer non-nerds (you in
sist youre not nerds, fine, who 
am I to argue the point):
BEGIN
REPEAT
BEGINLATHER;
RINSEEND
WHILE SMELLY(HAIR) 
END.
Shove .that through your PASCAL 
compiler and smoke it.
JE01
PJS., We shall overcome!
TIMBRE
TARTAN
The State of the University
Continued from page 2
and entertaining things to do.
CMU, partly because of its small size, doesnt have the 
facilities and programs that many state schools have. Oncampus bowling alleys, three movies nightly, monthly 
rock concerts with name groups, and sports centers (with 
indoor tracks, and miles of handball courts) dont come 
with our tuition.
But we try our best here. Our Student Activities Office 
and Activities Board do a commendable job keeping us 
entertained. We have a strong fraternity system, and our 
dorm directors are beginning to plan activities for dorm 
residents. The uniquness of Spring Carnival, Freshman 
Weekend, a growing Homecoming celebration, and the re
turn of the Beaux Arts Ball are strenthening CMU socially, 
but we're still far behind many other colleges.
Perhaps an increase in the Student Activities Fee is in 
order. The $30 we now pay each semester is lower than the 
fee at most other schools. Fifty dollars from each undergrad 
would increase the activities-fee-pot by $80,000 worth of 
goodtimes and dub subsidies.
THE SOCIAL LIFE: BThe Admissions Office does a superb job of selling CMU. 
All of us must admit that we received more information 
from CMU than from any other college. Many of us never 
asked for brochures, but were sold on CMU by the end of 
the mailing campaign.
ADMISSIONS OFFICE: A
The library system at CMU is bad. Library directors are 
doing their very best to upgrade the facilities (especially 
Hunt library), but theyre up against a budgeting crunch, 
inflation, and poor conditions to start with.
For the meager tuitions students pay down at Pitt, 
beautiful Hillman library is a fantastic reward. At CMU, 
the magazines in the reading room are weeks old, the 
microfilm room is almost a closet, and the only copies of 
some of the great novels of our time are 90 years old.
Are we Ivy League caliber in our libraries?
The answer is obvious. Yale and Harvard have more 
books in their bathrooms and slop closets than we have in 
our total collection!
THE LIBRARY SYSTEM (Including E&S library, and 
Mellon): B 
Hunt Library: CThe five categories graded in this editorial were picked as 
the most important factors that get students to come to 
CMU, and keep them here.
For the most part, the University is in pretty good shape. 
One thing that we have over the Ivys is that they are too 
smug, while we continue to question ourselves and our 
university. There is room for improvement everywhere, and 
we recognize that.
Will we ever be accepted into the Ivy League?
Probably not, but theres nothing lost in hoping. Presi
dent Cyert, if you re reading this, did you get any surprises 
in the mail today?
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Editor-in<hief

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-TARTAN-March 20, 1979
CMU Eckankar Religious Group Formed
Last February 27, the Student Senate 
unanimously voted to recognize the CMU 
Campus Eckankar Group as an official stu
dent organization, giving it non-funded sta
tus. The campus Eckists, who describe 
Eckankar as an educational/religious teach
ing, plan to meet every two weeks for open 
discussions, and to hold introductory talks 
from time to time.
Eckankar has been described as being a 
spiritual path, offering the individual an 
opportunity to expand their level of aware
ness through natural means. According to 
its followers, it is a principle of Eckankar 
that nothing can happen to an individual 
except in accordance with their state of 
consciousness; that is, the attitude that we 
choose to accept determines the world in 
which we live.
Through the contemplation exercises 
taught in Eckankar, students learn how to 
shift their attention at will to the higher 
levels of awareness which are the natural 
state of man. Students of Eckankar empha
size that they do not withdraw from the 
world, but learn how to integrate their 
spiritual awareness into their daily lives and 
lead an active, productive existence.
The change in my life brought about 
by my study of Eckankar has been incredi
ble, says one of the Eckists. Ive been on 
this path for about 6 years, and my under
standing of it, and of my own existence, is 
continually changing and growing. I used 
to feel that life and society were imposing 
limitations on me, but now Ive come to 
realize that an individuals capacity for 
wisdom and happiness is really infinite. 
There are no restrictions on us except 
those weve placed on ourselves.
Eckankar is an ancient teaching which, 
according to its followers, dates back to be
fore the days of Atlantis and Lemuria. The 
teachings were passed on by word of
mouth for many years, until 1965, when 
Paul Twitchell brought Eckankar out into 
the public for the first time since the time 
of Pythagoras. Twitchell authored over 60 
manuscripts, and founded the modern 
Eckankar movement. Today there are 
several million Eckists in all parts of the 
world, including several hundred in Wes
tern Pennsylvania.
The local Eckankar group plans to hold 
open discussion meetings every second 
Monday (the next one is March 19) in 
Skibo room 13, at 8 PM. The current topic 
of discussion is the book Eckankar, the
Key to Secret Worlds, by Paul Twitchell. 
The meetings are free and open to the 
CMU community.
An introductory talk will be held on 
Wednesday, March 21, in Skibo room 11. 
The color film Enkankar, A Way of Life 
will be shown, and books and other mate
rial will be available.
Local Eckists have opened an Eck Cen
ter at 413 Semple Street in Oakland, across 
from the Semple Street Co-Op. Books and 
other material are available there, as well as 
at the CMU Bookstore. For more informa
tion on campus activities, call Jeff Pepper 
at 578-4602.
Prof Says Highways Poorly Built
Current local highway construction 
practices are not sufficiently geared to fu
ture maintenance problems, warns Civil 
Engineering Professor Edward Krokosky.
The highways being built today have 
not been designed with renovation in 
mind, Krokosky says. That is why even 
extensive, costly rehabilitation projects 
can fail a few years after completion. 
Krokosky predicts that the Parkway 
East asphalt overlay, installed less than two
SARC Forms Committee
The Student Alumni Relations Council 
(SARC) has formed a new committee, 
CMU Interface. This Committees aim is to 
get the campus comminity more involved 
with Alumni and faculty. The idea is a 
local alumnus will host 3 to 4 students and
2 or 3 professors for coffee and dessert in 
an informal setting at his/her home. 
Discussion will be about almost anything
A common complaint voiced by some 
is the lack of opportunity to interact out
side the classroom with professors. It is 
SARCs hope that CMU Interface will fill 
this void.
In additon to Professors, local alumni 
will be part of the evening. Their insights 
into what the real world is like should be 
a welcome relief from the classroom for 
students.
The program is exciting and promises to 
be a imformative for all participants. You 
can be a part of CMU Interface by contact
ing Sherry Dean at 362-4639.
years ago, will fail in the near future  
pointing to already present pavement dis
ruptions in the eastbound lanes near Mon
roeville. The roadway is plagued by re
flection cracking: cracks which open up in 
the overlay due to the movement of the 
concrete pavement beneath it. Cracks 
sealed in the summer will open again in the 
winter as the concrete slabs beneath the 
asphalt contract. This allows water to seep 
in and shdrtly thereafter, permits potholes 
to blossom forth anew, Krokosky ex
plains. He points to the massive surface 
failures on McKnight Road in the North 
Hills as another indication that current ef
forts at periodic road maintenance are 
often doomed.
Highways must be designed to facili
tate future rehabilitation, Krokosky em
phasizes. As it is, putting an asphalt over
lay on a concrete roadway is akin to 
mixing apples and oranges  these things 
dont work well. Careful planning to mini
mize the number of joints in the pavement, 
and the installation of special reinforce
ments on these joints, could lessen the-ef
fects of pavement expansion and contrac
tion which is the first step in the deterior
ation of the road surface, Krokosky says. 
He also notes that in roadways designed for 
an asphalt overlay, the underlying concrete 
should be specially treated to improve the 
bond with the asphalt on installation, and 
later to facilitate stripping off the old over
lay to install a new one.
In the past, the solution to deteriora
ting roads was often to simply build new, 
parallel alternate routes. Now, with many 
Major highways over twenty years old, 
were finally learning that stop-gap repairs 
dont work, and that new highway systems 
must be designed with rehabilitation in 
mind, Krokosky says.
Krokosky will chair a special one-week 
seminar for contractors and highway spe
cialists: Pavement Design, Rehabilitation, 
and Materials in an Era of Diminishing Re
sources to be held at CMU March 26 
through 29, 1979.
A GREAT WAY TO END SPRING CARNIVAL |
COME TO i
THE 1 st ANNUAL H&SS SPRING FLING | 
ABOARD THE GATEWAY CLIPPER j
DINING*DANCING* CRUISING f
SUNDAY APRIL 22nd |
BOARDING TIME6:30 AT MONONGAHELA WHARF
se>
LIMITED NUMBER TICKETS 
ON SALE NOW AT BH 161 
DEADLINE FOR TICKETING 
MARCH 22nd
$8.00 PER PERSON (STUDENT) 
$10.00 PER PERSON (FACULTY)
FOR INFORMATION CALL x4736

---------------------------------------------------

March 20, 1979TARTANPage 7
Sibley Elected President
With a 21% student turnout in the 
Senate elections, Scott Sibley was voted 
the new President of Student Senate. 
Sibley beat his opponent, Steven Bielich, 
with 500 votes against Bielichs * 431.
The number of students voting 
remained about the same as it has been for 
the past few years. Out of 5147 under
graduate and graduate students enrolled,
that no one from GSIA bothered to cast 
a ballot. An explanation might be because 
no Senate seat from that College was being 
decided.
Sibley lead every college except AMS 
which had the highest percentage turnout 
of 43% of the students enrolled.
In all, 15 senators were elected. Of 
these, six are incumbents.
1054 cast ballots.Results of the elections can befoundAn interesting result of the election wasbelow.
Bielich % voteSibley% voteOthers % voteCastenroll%
MIS7637.110249.89 4.420577626.4
GSIA00000 002640
err20742.022545.616 32493190325.9
AMS5655.43231.74 4.0101234432
H&SS4133.16653.24 3.212465918.8
CFA3125.07157.314 11.31241212102
SUPA228.6457.11 14.37997.1
Total41339.250047.448 4.610545147203
MISVotes%err
Accetta7436.1Houska24549.7
Koshut5928.8Clawson21042.8
Miiler4421.5Relihan16834.1
Brandt4321.0Lawton, Mary Ann16032.5
Pike4321.0Smith15431.4
Zimmermann4120.0Kunkel15030.5
Levenson2612.7Lawton, Joann12926.2
Morrisson188.8McKnight11523.3
Others146.8Williams10921.1
H&SSShimp9519.3
Nichols8064.5Hrinya9318.8
Sherman6350.8Greenberg85172
Skulski4637.1Limmer7615.5
Heller1310.5Schneider7115.4
Others4435.5Others13727.8
AMSCFASunseri3534.7
Hodge9879.0Lerner3231.7
Jaffe75.6Ivanshultz1615.8
Macey432Zimmerman1211.9
Others7661.3Others11.0
CARNEGIE-MELLON ACTION PROJECT (C-MAP) 
Office: Margaret Morrison Carnegie College 410 
Schenley Park 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
The Carnegie-Mellon Action Project (C-MAP) is an 
educational unit of the University providing academic and 
non-academic support services to minority students, to 
educationally & economically disadvantaged students 
(Pennsylvania ACT 101), and to any CMU student 
requesting our services. While the majority of the students 
who use the program are minorities, C-MAP willingly 
assists any CMU student who can benefit from our ser
vices. The overall objective of C-MAP is to assist the Univ
ersity in its efforts to assure the acquisition of a technicalprofessional education for motivated students with high 
academic potential.
The C-MAP staff assists other University personnel in 
the admissions process (recruitment, selection, and finan
cial aid), in conducting a high quality pre-college ex
perience (Summer Program) for entering students, and in 
providing academic and inter-personal supportive services 
such as tutoring, counseling and summer job placement 
assistance throughout the school year.
3/7/79
Social Security Revised
The Social Security Administration is 
attempting to make certain that students 
who are receiving social security checks ac
tually are full-time students. In order to do 
this the Social Security Administration is 
mailing more than 850,000 reporting forms 
to students 18 to 22 years of age.
In addition to being completed by the 
student, school officials are being asked to 
certify on the form that the student is 
enrolled on a full-time basis.
If a student fails to return the form 
within 60 days or the form comes back 
without the necessary school certification, 
the students monthly checks will be stop
ped.
This is the first time that a school of
ficial is being asked to certify full-time at
tendance on this form. The Social Security 
Administration is implementing this new 
procdure because some students were 
either not returning the forms or they were 
stating they were in school when they were 
not.
Any student who needs help in complet
ing the form or has any questions about 
their checks should contact any Social Sec
urity Office.
Students who incorrectly received social 
security checks will not be required to re
pay them.
TARTAN Elections Yields Winners
This is the last issue of the 1978-79 
Editorial Board. Beginning with the April 
10th issue, a new editorial board, elected 
March 13th, will take over the reigns of 
TARTAN leadership.
Jean Pellegrini, who served as News 
Editor and Managing Editor in her two 
years with the TARTAN, was elected 
Editor-in-chief. Jean is a Junior Applied 
Math-AMS-Economics major. She has 
named Brian Byrnes and Neil Adler as 
her Managing Editors. Byrnes, former News
Editor, is an Electrical Engineering Major 
and has been with the TARTAN for two 
years. Adler, former Production Manager, 
is a freshman in Civil Engineering.
Filling in the other board positions, 
Karen Joy Ravets and Doug Kirsop will 
act as co-editors for news; Susan Borg takes 
over as features editor; Alan Spero is the 
new entertainment editor; Howard Turner 
and Perry Colosimo will continue as Sports 
editors; and Lisa Amowitz becomes the 
new FOLIO editor.
Elvis Fans Want the 'Real Thing'
(CPS)While the cartoon strip Doonesburry had fun for a few weeks with the 
blatant commercialization oi Elvis Presley 
after his death, reports indicate that such 
commercialization may be dying down.
Two Elvis events had to be cancelled 
in recent weeks due to lack of interest. 
Always Elvis, a multi-media production 
hawked by Elvis manager, Col. Tom
Parker, was cancelled at the Greensboro, 
N.C. Coliseum this month. Only 400 of the
15,000 seat Coliseum had been sold for the 
Shrine Club benefit.
Earl Owensby, an Elvis imitator, specu
lated that the Always Elvis show failed 
because Elvis fans went to see him in 
person. They dont want to see a picture 
of him.
NED A RIDE TO THE
AIRPORT?
RIDE THE A PHI O 
SHUTTLEBUS
MARCH 23, 1979
LEAVING FROM:
MOREWOOD 
11:45 AM. 
2:15 P.M. 
4:45 P.M.
DONNOR HALL 
12:00 NOON 
2:30 PM. 
5:00 PM.
PRICE $2.50
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE 
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TARTANMarch 20, 1979
Psychologists Explain 'Witness Leading'
Psychologists are being called into 
court to explain what can interfere with 
eyewitness testimony, asserted University 
of Washington psychologist Elizabeth Loftus to a small CMU audience on March 7. 
The lecture was sponsored by Sigma Chi 
and the Program in Technology and Hu
manities.
Why is a psychologist needed?*... be
cause of the impact unclear witnesses may 
have on a jury. Loftus research argues 
strongly that the effects of wording of 
questions influences a subjects answers 
and memories. In one experiment, sub
jects first viewed a movie of a car crashing 
into a tree. Then, different sets of subjects 
were asked,  How fast was the car moving 
when it contacted, hit, bumped, colli
ded, or smashed into the tree. The 
strength of these verbs increases, and so did 
the average speed estimates. (From 31 
m.p.h., when contacted was used, to 40 
m.p.h. for smashed.) Lawyers often ask 
questions in a particular way to manipulate 
witnesses answers. Normal people, like 
jurors, continue to place great weight on 
the testimony of eyewitnesses, stated Lof
tus.
NDSL
LOANS
DO YOU HAVE ONE?
ARE YOU LEAVING SCHOOL?
IF BOTH YES THEN
YOU MUST ATTEND AN
ONLY TAKES EXIT ONLY TAKES
5 5
MINUTES INTERVIEW MINUTES
There are two types of information in 
memory. First, the original information 
comes into memory at the time of the event. This corresponds to at least part of 
reality. Then, once its stored it doesnt 
passively reside. The person can be ex
posed to new information which effects 
alterations or distortions in a later recol
lection. This has been proven in numerous 
lab studies. Loftus asserted, We believe 
the distortions were studying in the lab are 
similar to a lot of outside occurences.
What happens to the real memory is 
conjectural. Either it is buried deep but 
covered with garbage, or the new informa
tion destroys what is earlier impressed in 
the memory.  If memory is chemical and 
electrical, maybe it can be destroyed or 
transformed. There is no evidence that 
memory is permanently stored in the 
brain.
Where is the greatest likelihood of sug
gesting false information? Loftus re
search with different retention periods 
suggests that its better to delay. Loftus 
continued, If it is so easy to manipulate a 
real memory, then it should be incredibly 
easy to manipulate a nonexistent one. 
In one experiment, Loftus group got 17% 
of the subjects to say they saw nonexist
ent objects as big as a barn. And it is 
fairly easy to get someone to change their 
recollection of colors, such as those of 
streetlights.
What variables affect the amount an 
eyewitnesss memory could be altered? A 
persons commone sense, age, prior expec
tations, and the time factor are among 
those cited by Loftus. People in the audi
ence further suggested: education, occupa
tion, intelligence, or conscious need to 
please the questioner. It was also noted 
that if a witness is warned to look for mis
leading questions, they can defend. And if 
a witness is really committed to his story, 
it becomes difficult to change.
Pushers Drive Parked Cars 'Buggy'
The following was posted on parked 
cars last week by the 1979 Sweepstakes 
Safety Committee:
The City of Pittsburghs Department of 
Public Safety and Department of Parks 
and Recreation has given CMU students 
permission to use Frew St. and Tech St. 
on Sunday thru Thursday nights from 
11 PM to 7 AM, March 5 - April 18, for
the purposes of holding buggy push prac
tices. During this time, traffic will be pre
vented from travelling on these streets for 
periods of up to 10 minutes. If any buggies 
or students are present, PLEASE be sure 
that the street is open for traffic before 
travelling in this area. For the safety of 
all involved, wed appreciate your coop
eration.
Renovations Planned . . .
APRIL 2-nCASHIERS 
OFFICE
9:00am - 4:00pm WARNER HALL
continued from page 1
that when weather is nice, students can 
meet and eat outdoors. The most likely 
part of this will see the sidewalk along the 
Kiltie Cafeteria widened with seating over
looking the tennis courts. The possibility 
of a ramp for the handicapped leading 
from the cut to the cafeteria is a possibil
ity here.
Recognizing that the forecourt of Doh
erty Hall is the major crossroads of the 
campus, EP&D is working on a new and 
larger plaza for that building.
All over the campus there will be over a 
hundred new trees planted over the next 
three years. Mpst likely, these trees will be 
several years old when they are planted at 
CMU, reducing the time till they reach 
maturity. Along with trees, the whole cam
pus will receive new and additional light
ing. According to Van Hprn, all of the exisPUT YOUR SCIENTIFIC OR ENGINEERING DEGREE TO WORK
If youre a degree candidate who would like 
to embark on a future oriented scientific or 
engineering career, then consider the United 
States Air Force. Its one of the finest oppor
tunities in the nation.
Completion of our three month Officer 
Training School nets you an officers com
mission and launches you into a career 
thats geared for tomorrow Our equipment 
is among the finest, our working condi 
tions are excellent, and our benefits pack 
age unmatched.
Find out about a space age service by 
calling Sam Talton at 621-9280
| 9Ifyf ou y oI
ting lights will be removed and a new light - 
post will be used throughout the campus. 
The oldest existing lights (with concrete 
posts) could very well end up on the Hamerschlag-Science Hall patio.
All of the proposals by EP&D are being 
reviewed by the campus design committee, 
guaranteeing their suitability at CMU. Rob
ert Taylor, a member of the committee and 
department head of Architecture, com
mented, What theyre doing is very sen
sible.
The campus beautification program will 
be running concurrent with the current 
university plans of upgrading the older 
buildings on campus. Over the past six 
years, all of the original roofs have been re
placed at a cost of $1.8 million. There have 
also been safety renovations to the steam 
tunnels and new fire escapes for Doherty 
Hall.
According to Van Horn, We will slowly 
continue to improve classrooms. The uni
versity has replaced virtually every mechan
ical system on campus and is continuing a 
program of energy conservation. Science 
Halls mechanical system was recently over
hauled, cutting its energy consumption by 
over 25%^ and the windows in Baker and 
Porter Halls will be replaced over the next 
two years.
When Van Horn was asked if the brick 
on the campus buildings might be cleaned 
in the near future he responded, Its too 
expensive for the immediate future. In 
1977, several tests were conducted around 
the campus to see how the brick would 
clean and Van Horn said that it went well, 
but to do the complete Fine Arts building
alone would be over $50,000.
Finally, Van Horn speculated about a 
new theater complex for the drama depart
ment. Thats the most likely construction 
to be built on campus-, he responded, but 
he speculates that the cost will be over $8 
million for the two theaters that the school 
needs, one for musicals and one for drama. 
The University is looking for the primary 
gift that would allow work to begin on this 
center for the performing arts.

---------------------------------------------------

March 20, 1979TARTANPage 9
Kent Parents Don't Want Money Settlement
j<NT, OH (CPS)  Do you think Im go
ing to touch that blood money? Would 
that pay for my childs life? Im going to 
give it away if I get it
Thus spoke a mother of one of the fent 
State University students killed at an 
anti-war rally in 1970.The blood money 
is $675,000 settlement damages which the 
families of the four slain students and the 
nine wounded will share.
Awarded on January 4, the settlement 
brings to a conclusion eight years of court 
battles. The first civil suit was attempted 
shortly after the May 4, 1970 incident, in 
which National Guard troops shot a 13-sec
ond volley of gunfire at hundreds of dem
onstrating students.
At that time, lawyers for the parents 
and wounded students tried to bring suit 
against Ohio Governor James Rhodes 
former J5U president White, and National
Guard officers and enlisted men. The 
courts ruled that sovereign immunity 
prevented such suits -- that the state cannot 
be held liable for its actions.
Meanwhile, both state and federal crim
inal trials were held. In September, 1970, a 
Special Ohio Grand Jury issued a report 
that placed primary responsibility on KSU 
administration, and also on faculty and stu
dents. The Grand liry issued indictments 
against the Kent 25, who were mostly 
students.
The following year, though, U.S. Dis
trict Jidge William Thomas ordered the re
port expunged because of irreparable 
damage to the rights of the accused. A 
trial of the fent 25 resulted in three 
guilty verdicts, one acquittal, and a dis
missal of charges against the remaining 
defendants.
A federal grand jury in 1974 indicted 
eight Guardsmen for willfully violating
the rights of the dead and wounded stu
dents. But nine months later, U.S. District 
Jidge Frank Battisti dismissed charges against the Guardsmen. Thus ended the 
criminal trials.
Finally, in April, 1974, the U.S. Su
preme Court unanimously ruled that 
sovereign immunity is not absolute, 
but qualified, allowing the parents and 
students to file suit. The trial, in which 
plaintiffs asked for $46 million in damages, 
resulted in a 9-3 federal court decision 
against parents and students on all issues.
However, a retrial was ordered and 
granted in September, 1977, on the basis 
of several irregularities, including Judge 
Youngs prejudicial charges to the jury, 
and threats made against one of the jurors.
During pretrial hearings in Ncv ember, 
1978, Jidge William Thomas denied a 
motion to dismiss Governor Rhodes from
the suit because of his qualified immun
ity as a public figure, and also denied the 
dismissal of National Guard Captain limes 
Snyder. The plaintiffs were granted a re
quest that the dollar figure be remwed.
A mid-December out-of-court offer of 
$675,000 was halted by the Ohio Con
trolling Board, which refused to appropri
ate the money. But a second settlement 
offer of the same amount was agreed upon 
by attorneys on both sides.
An apology was unprecented, saiu 
Sanford Rosen, chief attorney for plain
tiffs, and added that we got everything 
we asked for. Rosen was disappointed, 
though, that the defendants continued to 
deny any liability.
The parents of the victims and the 
wounded plaintiffs each received from 
$15,000 to $42,500. Dean Kahler, who 
was paralyzed for life from his wound, re
ceived $350,000.Miczek Denied Tenure Despite Reputation
continued from page 1
respect others in my field have for my 
work, Miczek said.
In the report of the National Institute 
of Health (which gave Miczek a yearly 
grant of $55,285) Miczek was praised for 
having a superb grasp of methods. He can 
undertake completely well thought out 
experiments and he is unusually competent 
to perform his proposed work.
The psychology departments tenure 
committee report (which was recently 
made available by a TARTAN source), 
stated, on the other hand, that Miczeks 
potential for scientific leadership is very 
small ... he has made no major empiricial 
findings beyond routine applications . . . 
Miczek has made no theoretical contri
butions to his field nor has he exhibited 
any ability to produce integrated explanatations of drug effects ... in conclusion, 
the departments decisions is highly ne
gative.
Miczeks reputation in his field, how
ever, is oustanding. He was considered to 
be a fellow of the American Psychological 
Association, one of the highest honors 
possible for a psycho-pharmacologist. He 
was one of the youngest scientiest ever to 
be considered for the honor, and he is 
confident that he will be named a fellow 
later this year. Although he was nominated 
last year, he did not become a fellow, and 
it came to his attention that there was a 
conspiracy against him in his own depart
ment at CMU.
When I was nominated last year, I was 
asked to get letters of recommendations 
from two men who are already Fellows, 
Miczek said. I asked a colleague from the 
department here, and a Fellow from Pitt. 
They both agreed. Evidently, my colleague 
from CMU wrote a bad letter.
Fifteen psychologists and doctors, from 
top schools in the U.S. and Europe, wrote 
letters of reference for Miczek to the 
tenure committee. A number of students 
wrote glowing letters, and gave copies of 
their letters to Miczek. Two students 
recommended Miczek for the Ryan award, 
CMUs highest teaching award, but he 
never heard what happened to his nomi
nation. Despite a close rapport some of 
Miczeks students told the TARTAN they 
have with him, the tenure report states, 
Miczek has taught no grad students at 
CMU who believe he is a good teacher or 
adequate model of what a scientist should 
be.
Miczek said he doesnt take his denial of 
tenure personally. They just want to 
phase out the department, he said, and 
111 go too. I would have rather had them 
come to me telling me that they planned to
phase out and that I should look for 
another job, instead of calling me intellec
tually inferior as an excuse for getting rid 
of the department.
Dr. Gregg, who has seen the department 
go downhill, since Miczek came (But 
not necessarily because of him, Gregg 
adds) is worried about CMUs psycho
pharmacology department.
We used to have 15 grad students 
there, but this past year we only had two 
and next year well have none. There just 
werent qualified candidates, Gregg said. 
Im sure Dr. Miczek tried his hardest to 
recruit people, but we never got them.
Dr. George T. Duncan, associate pro
fessor of statistics from CMU, has collabor
ated with Dr. Brian Job, an assistant pro
fessor of political science at the University
of Minnesota, to develop a statistical model 
that produces a 30-day forecast of the 
probability of rapid changes in the internal 
or external politics of a country. It bases 
predictions on present levels of tension, 
using a scale of one to five, and gives the 
daily probabilities of tension both increas
ing and decreasing for the following 
month.
To make such predictions, the model 
takes subjective assessments of a given 
situation from international relations 
analysts at universities, the Defense De
partment, and the State Department. 
These analysts assess the amount of 
tension, the probability of a change in 
tension, and the waiting time between 
changes. At this point, a computer applies 
a model to develop probability forecasts. 
Over time, daily data is obtained on
tension levels and statistical methods 
are used to make slight revisions in the 
analysts opinions based on these data.
This method of obtaining crisis pro
babilities is particulary important for 
analysts and policy makers, comments 
Duncan, because it forces them to deal 
with many of the uncertainties that occur 
in crisis situations, emphasizes the pro
abilities of future changes in tension, and 
could act as a basis for suggestions and 
action plans.
So far, the results have been very 
promising, Duncan continues. It has 
successfully predicted crises in the Middle 
East, and can be used in other countries or 
situations by making slight revisions in the 
model to reflect the users particular 
interest.__________________
Expanding the Limits of LSI.
Here's a few words about what we're doing today in LSI...
We're using the most advanced technology 
available to develop custom proprietary cir
cuits. We have a speciality expertise in the 
design area that allows us to design these 
circuits better than theyve ever been done 
before. And we have the process technology 
in place to successfully manufacture some 
of the most complex chips in the industry.
But we can also say a great deal about our 
strength as a company. A compounded 
growth rate of 36% for the last 10 years 
and there are no layoffs in our background. 
Not a typical semiconductor company, you 
might say.
And youre right. But then, there's noth
ing typical about the way we work. Our 
standards are high. We don't maintain those 
standards by dictating artificial structures, 
or standing in the way of new ideas. The 
people we work with want an environment
that lets them prove themselves, and thats 
what we try to give them.
So thats where we are today. You can 
have some impact on where well be tomor
row, if you have interest in one of these 
areas.
 DESIGN ENGINEERING
 PROCESS ENGINEERING
 COMPONENT/RELIABILITY 
ENGINEERING
 SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
 PRODUCT & TEST ENGINEERING 
Let's talk LSI. We're recruiting on campus
on Thursday, March 22. Or write to Jeffry 
Gibson, Manager of College Relations 
LSI Semiconductor Group, Digital Equip
ment Corporation, Dept. CM, 175 Flanders 
Road, Westboro, Massachusetts 01581. An 
equal opportunity employer, m/f.
mmm

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10TARTANMarch 20, 1979
Student Health Profession Group Created
by Jeanette Bryan
The Carnegie CARE UNIT is the new 
club which has been established for stu
dents interestedin the health professions. 
The club is supported by the Health Pro
fessions Program (located in Scaife Hall 
119), and is designed to assist and advise
pre-health students while providing activ
ities and exposure for becoming involved 
in a medical career.
The CCU is presently involved with 
many areas of education. Some activities 
the club anticipates and programs being 
run are:
1) a network of academic advisors from 
departments in MIS/CIT/H&SS. The 
departmental advisors serve as pro
fessional guides for the student and 
as a home base within each depart
ment.
2) career enhancement programs. One
such program is Med-X, a student run 
organization which offers hospital 
volunteer assignment that is especial
ly designed for its pre-professional 
relevance and medical value.
3) activities such as observation of sur
gery and autopsies at local hospitals.
A few seminars that have already been 
held this semester proved interesting and 
beneficial to health interested persons. The 
first was held on February 3rd at Mellon 
Institute. This program was extremely in
formative, with up-to-date facts, figures 
and trends concerning admission proce
dures and the selection process into medi
cal schools and other graduate schools in 
the health related fields. The special guest 
speakers were Paul Crippan, Assistant Dean 
of Pa. School of Optometry, and four stu
dents from the Pitt Medical and Dental 
Schools.
Another in depth talk was given by Dr. 
Joseph Debold, assistant professor of Psy
chology at CMU, on March 12. He discuss
ed some of the interesting work being done 
in the field of physiological psychology 
and how it fits into the broader field of the 
health professions.
The CCU serves the needs of students 
who wish to enter the health professions 
upon graduation from CMU. Surprisingly 
enough, CMU does have a respectable num
ber of students (131) registered in the pre
health program as of now. This number 
of students is sufficiently less than those 
who are interested in pursuing a healthrelated career.
The CCU welcomes any of these stu
dents to participate in the club as it will al
low one to become familiar with an antici
pated career. It will be informative and ad
vantageous to undergrads who are into 
health professions. If anyone wishes to 
become involved please contact Dr. Karolyn Eisentein, Scaife Hall 119, phone 578- 
3090.
Also, the Admissions Office is having 
two sleeping bag campaigns for prospective 
freshman on April 8-9, and April 22-23. 
They need hosts and hostesses for students 
interested in health professions. If youd 
like to volunteer, contact the Admissions 
Office.
For more information on the Carnegie 
Care Unit please feel free to contact either 
Allen Green, President; Paul Chidester,. 
Program Chairman; or Jeanette Bryait, 
Social Chairman. All are listed in C-Book.Graphic Arts
Seminar
Coming
The 39th Annual Carnegie Printers 
Seminar, focusing on improved produc
tivity in the graphic arts, will be held 
April 19 - 21 at CMU.
The seminar begins Thursday at 6 PM 
with a dinner and speech by Michael Bruno 
of Coulter Systems Corporation, who will 
discuss the latest technical developments 
in graphic arts.
Fridays all day session will concentrate 
on improving productivity in the press
room. Earl Lancus of the Commercial 
Press Division of Harris Corporation 
will be speaking.
A round-table discussion on procuctivity, patterned after the PIA Presidents 
Roundtables, will conclude the seminar on 
Saturday morning.
The seminar is open to all interested 
persons. A registration fee of $75.00 
includes all lectures, discussions and three 
meals. For information, contact Edward 
W. Evans, head, Graphic Communications 
i..anagement at 578-2393
A Message from ECKANKARECKANKAR
A Way of Life
ECKANKAR is a way of life. It is the most 
ancient religion known to man, and through it 
the universal questions are seen in their deepest 
meaning and answered by the direct experience 
of God. The student of ECK (Spirit) lives a 
responsible, involved existence, paying his own 
way, serving a useful function in society, and 
fulfilling his commitments to himself, his family 
and his employer.
In this way ECKists are busy translating 
their inner unfoldment into everyday life terms 
all around the world. Yet the most dis
tinguishing facet of the ECKist's existence is a 
sense of joy, a joy which arises from his 
knowledge that death is a myth, that the word 
life has a reality that encompasses states of con
sciousness beyond mans imagination, and that 
the only thing that holds man from the realiza
tion of these states is his own self-limiting con
cepts.
Freedom of Choice
The ECK teachings have always been 
available throughout the course of history, but 
they have never denied the validity of any other 
religious path or teaching. This teaching is not 
Eastern in originrather, it encompasses all of 
mans religions. ECKANKAR does not con
demn any path nor the follower of any religious 
teaching, and does not accept the negative at
tacks that so-called religious leaders have 
directed at it. The great leaders of the past such 
as Jesus, Buddha and Mohammed, each played 
a great role but, unfortunately, their followers 
have often caused religious wars, persecution 
and general hatred. This is a misconception 
which has no place in any truly spiritual path. It 
is a violation of the Law of Spirit to attempt to 
influence another person for any reason what
soever without that persons permission. The 
teachings of ECK state that each individual 
must be free to make his or her own decisions 
every step of the way. Those who violate this 
law will reap the consequences of their actions, 
which will come about through the natural 
vehicle of Spirit, not the agency of any man or 
group. ;
ECKANKAR is based upon individual 
freedom of choice; converts are never 
sought after, nor is tithing. Neither do com
munal living, drug use nor religious ashrams 
reflect the nature of individuality and personal 
freedom found in the ECK teachings down, 
through the ages. The teachings are simply 
made available to the many who today are seek
ing personal spiritual growth and unfoldment 
to Self-realization and God-realization.
CAMPUS ACTIVITIES: Introducing talk and film tonight at 8 P M., in 
Skibo, Room 11. Next open discussion meeting Monday 4/2, 8 P M in 
Skibo, Room 13. Boooks available in the CMU bookstore.
For Information Send to:
ECKANKAR International Office 
P.O. Box 3100 / Menlo Park, CA 94025
How ECK Can Help You
The ECKist learns to contact this audible 
life stream and to trace it back to the Source 
from which it came in the heavenly worlds. This 
spiritual liberation gives man freedom from all 
things, Former negative traits drop away 
naturally, such as smoking, temper, undue at
tachment to material things, gluttony and ab
normal talking. These things are not bad or evil 
in themselves, but that which will fasten the at
tention solely upon the limited physical state. 
These are replaced with the highest qualities 
and ethics known to man. Through the spiritual 
exercises of ECK and the guidance of 
Sri Darwin Gross, the 972nd Living ECK Master, 
one can have the conscious experience of the 
heavenly worlds and know what lies beyond 
death.
ECKANKAR serves as a vehicle for the 
individual to lift himself out of the realm of the 
psychic. It allows one to live life fuller each 
day, to be more confident with a greater under
standing and love for all life. The whole pur
pose of ECK is to provide spiritual succor and 
upliftment to all who seek it. It is freedom from 
old limitations and habits, a way to experience 
life fully, consciously and to find the answers to 
the questions that have always plagued 
mankind. Those individuals who follow this 
direct path to God will find it an adventure in 
personal freedom and spiritual experience.
How ECK Has Helped 
Individuals Around the World
Testimonials received by ECKANKAR
ECK has made me a greater person totally. 
Each moment of the day is filled with a hap
piness that words cant express. Most of all, 
through ECK I have experienced God and the 
heavenly worlds. M.N.. California
What a beautiful experience seeing you and 
talking with you on the inner planes . . . Our 
meeting face to face was very special ... I will 
remember. R.J., Oregon
. . . I am no longer taking pills or smoking pot. 
I feel much better, my life more balanced. I 
have learned that drugs and ECK do not mix. I 
dont have that desire to go back to them. 
T.L., Mexico
With ECK there is always a supreme joy . . . 
The realization of new areas of experience 
and the secret knowledge of the higher realms is 
high adventure in the truest sense for us both. 
E.M., Maine
The ECK has helped me to find a purpose in 
life and a greater understanding. Thank you. 
J.M., Colorado
"You will find that ECK and its 
teachings give a freedom 
through experience which only 
you as an individual, one person, 
can have. No one else can have 
\ that experience for you."
Sri Darwin Gross
I
I
j--------------------------------------------------------------------
Name
Address
City State Zip

---------------------------------------------------

VIEWS9 Mo
Morewood Vs. The Hill: Underlying Conflict
by Matt Sweigart
Because the sex life is better here, 
says one Hill resident. Moved here for 
sex, says resident of Morewood Gardens. 
Because we couldnt get a co-ed room on 
campus, says an off-campus couple. That 
seems to be the story everywhere you go, 
on-campus or off. You live where the sex 
is, and if it isnt where you are, chances are 
its not where youre not. Either you have 
it or you dont, but one thing is certain: 
you always have your room (unless you 
prefer the Fine Arts mezzanine table.)
On a cold Saturday afternoon, and 
Thursday night of the same, this reporter, a 
faithful resident of Squirrel Hill, found 
himself trucking around Morewood Gar
dens and the Hill Dormitories respectively 
in pursuit of the ultimate answer to the 
question: Why do you live here as oppos
ed to there? Surprisingly, I found it. Be
neath all the crud, beneath all the mirk, 
beneath all the slush of Pittsburgh that I 
had to trudge through, lay the golden nug
get, the simple answer: I like it better 
here. But, not to handle it so heavily, 
there are other ultimates, like I got stuck 
here, or general apathy.
Nonetheless, things looked simple, too 
simple as a matter of fact. I mean, how can 
you write an article that says you live 
where you do because you like it best? 
You have to have reasons, if for no other 
purpose than to stretch the article to its 
quota length. And such reasons, flowed 
naturally from the mouths of my inter
viewees at the simple dropping of my 
question. Their answers seemed to come in 
four breeds: 1) those unique qualities of 
the dormitories in question, 2) general 
characteristics of any dormitory, 3) the 
fact that the* reasons why one person lives 
in a place are the very reasons why another 
doesnt (one mans trash is another mans 
treasure), 4) a garbage category.
Unique qualities of Morewood Gardens 
seem apparent, dont they? Theres a cafe
teria, the mailroom, and the infirmary right 
downstairs. Its all one unified building, 
said one Morewood Gardens resident, and 
it has the flavor of being a little city. Be
sides this, as one girl put it, We heard 
about all the sexy fraternity guys over 
here. Also, theres a great roof to lay out 
on, and a big basement to jog in. Not so 
obvious perhaps is this feature,This room 
has a beautiful window for my plants, and 
Larger window space; we can see whats 
going on.
Of course, the rooms in the back of 
Donner Hall do have a great view of the 
football games,  but Im not sure that the 
plants like to watch football. Actually, 
there could be nice windows for plants on 
the Hill, but no one mentioned it as a rea
son for living there. And this leads us rath
er shakily into the unique features of the 
Hill Dormitories. For one thing, theres the 
very fact that dormitory is plural here. 
There are seven Hill Dorms in all, with the 
new one there will be eight. Also, there are 
Tech House, Spirit House, Woodlawn, and 
Roselawn which I did not research. They 
do add a unique feature to the Hill though: 
many buildings. This leads to smaller halls 
(which are) closer people wise, you can 
know everyone in your dormitory here. 
Besides this, the Hill Dorms are closer to 
Fine Arts, and closer to the library (Hunt 
that is). And, 1 dont have to walk past 
ATO: someone liked the idea of not be
ing too close to the fraternities. For the 
Athlete, too, there are reasons unique to 
the Hill. I play football, said one resi
dent of MaGill,and its real easy to get 
down to the field during the season, and 
the Hill dorms are closer to the gym,
said a Morewood Gardens resident who was 
unable to get a place on the Hill. And be
fore I forget, theres a great pool table
here.
Generally, the unique qualities add up 
to one thing, there are some things here 
and some things there. But, foregoing the 
fact that Ive probably missed a few, Ill go 
on to the general. Get this, botft the Hill 
Dormitories and Morewood Gardens are 
more convenient, closer to classes, 
and have nicer rooms. And while there 
are more things going on over here in 
Morewood, there are better parties over 
here on the Hill. Also,  you can be rowd
ier over here (on the Hill), dont have to 
worry about women keeping you in line, 
but a girl in Morewood Gardens lives there, 
because you can yell obscene things out 
the windows. Added to all this is the sex 
issue noted in the first paragraph. There is, 
then, a significant amount of overlap in 
what a dormitory has to offer.
Some qualities of a particular dormi
tory, as was hinted at earlier, are cherished 
by one person, and loathed by another. 
For instance, Morewood is a fun place, 
the Den of Iniquity, anytime of the day or 
night there are people awake and around, 
but from the Hill it is saidMorewoods a 
zoo, its not safe, people wandering around 
late at night. Likewise, there are the opin
ions on fraternities which appear above. 
Either you like living near them or you 
dont, but whats more prevalent is that it 
really doesnt make a whole lot of differ
ence.
Lastly, theres what I call the garbage 
category, though it probably includes 
some of the more important reasons. Its 
full of things that have nothing to do with 
why you dont live where you dont. 
Morewood is sort of a fire trap, is a pre
valent negative for Morewood Gardens: I 
wouldnt live above the second floor. Along the same lines, MaGills electrical sys
tem wasnt at all grounded last year when I 
lived there. (I have no idea as to the valid
ity ot this statement.) Walk up to a Hill res
ident, and youll likely hear, saw the split 
from the moment we were first here, we 
were the Hill People. Just as likely, you 
might hear a Morewood Gardens resident 
say,the Hill Dorms seem so foreign, and 
they have a really bad rap about them, 
notoriously rat infested. But then, More
wood has the reputation of being a big so
cial click, almost the whole thing. I just 
didnt want to get involved. And of 
course, Morewood is too close among stu
dents; you cant scheme with the women, 
because everyone will know it. Over here 
(on the Hill) you can basically do what you 
want, there is no grape vine on the Hill. 
Unfortunately, the Hill Dorms seem like 
caves.
Wait, theres more, the most important 
reason. Where you live is often a matter of 
loyalty. Once a Hill resident, always a Hill 
resident. Thats where they put me, and 
I made friends here, so I stayed. I grew 
to like the Place. There are a lot of nice 
guys on the Hill, and we decided to stay to
gether. I could go on, but I think you get 
the picture. You live near people you like.
In conclusion, Id like to say that my 
sample included 33 Morewood residents, 
and 33 Hill residents. It did not include 
Mudge (it wasnt part of my assignment), 
or people in Henderson (I was locked out).
I did hear that people in Henderson are 
really together. It is the smallest dormitory 
on campus, and besides this, they apparently 
did all the Dorm improvement themselves. 
Overall, I got a chance to talk with a very 
interesting cross-section of the student 
body. The students on both sides were 
friendly, and very helpful. Thank-you all 
very much. Having had this experience, I 
would be very hard put to it to decide be
tween the two areas. Maybe thats why I 
live off campus; that, and my escape from 
Food Service (ooops, I forgot Doherty, 
sorry). Basically though, Id have to say 
I live off campus because I like it best.
P.S. A pat on the back for whoever 
was responsible for clearing the sidewalks 
after that big snowstorm. We got up for 
8:30 class, and they were all cleared. And, 
a slap on the wrist for whoevers responsi
ble for lighting the back of Skibo. It simply 
isn t lit, and its very dangerous. I was
there myself the other night and the situa
tion is bad.
P.P.S. This author invites any and all 
comment upon this article. If you have 
more reasons, let us have them both 
barrels.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TARTAN-March 20. 1979
by Frederic J. Siegel
/COm6 ON BE6iE..\ 
frprp. AMOTHee cKte
Ujei/e got a AIr of
Cfi^e C6TT... AfJD
Vou'v/e 3AE6U/ y
PI^/V/7 BcyOA/D 
Peace: An Uncertain Road
Although a peace treaty between Israel 
and Egypt is to be concluded very shortly, 
one must wait cautiously before indulging 
in what would now surely be a premature 
celabration. Despite the significant ob
stacles already overcome, the road to a full 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East 
is at the very least filled with danger and 
uncertainty. While the United States, 
Egypt and Israel have already taken con
siderable risks, even greater ones lie ahead.
For a comprehensive peace to become a 
reality, it will be paramount for President 
Carter to remain consistent with the divine 
force which has guided him thus far. In 
pulling off his greatest diplomatic feat to 
date last week, the President made it cer
tain that only with intense and continuous 
American pressure can the peace process be 
sustained. No matter what the financial or 
military commitment by the United States 
will have to be, the next stage of the peace 
process cannot afford to fail. It remains 
evident that by now Mr. Carter views the 
completion of a full Middle East agreement 
as an American obligation that we can not 
abandon. The President surely realizes that 
the alternative to peace is an instability a 
thousand times greater than was created 
recently by the departure of the Shah from 
Iran. With American prestige and popular
ity dwindling in every part of the world, 
and with the impending threat of another
oil embargo, to see a full peace agreement 
in the Middle East must be our number one 
foreign policy priority. Failure to do so 
could potentially alter the state of the free 
world as we now know it.
Just as Mr. Carter can not abandon his 
efforts in the peace process, so must Pres
ident Sadat be serious in his attempt to 
win the support of his Arab brethren.
Although he is popular in his own count
ry, in recognizing Israels right to exist a 
year and a half ago, Mr. Sadat buried him
self into the most hated position within 
the Arab world. To see his historical 
vision become a reality, President Sadat 
will have to become a master of diplomacy. 
If he is not, not only will the stability of 
his own government be in jeopardy, but 
the stability of the entire Middle East. 
Above all, Sadat will have to trust 
Israel and their sincere desire for peaceful 
coexistence.
Just as Sadat will have to trust Israel, 
so will Prime Minister Begin have to trust 
both the motives and sincerity of Egypt 
and the United States. In giving up the 
Sinai, the Prime Minister has already taken 
a considerable gamble with the future of 
Israeli survival. However, it remains inevit
able that he will have to make still greater 
concessions. Of major importance will be 
Begins willingness to seriously negotiate 
the rights of the Palestinian people. Mr. 
Begin is an expert in the art of negotiation, 
but only when he is willing to put emo
tions aside and consider all interests. Only 
when he becomes convinced that a full 
comprehensive peace will strengthen Israel, 
will he dedicate himself to that end. If 
anyone wants to command such a peace, 
it is Menahem Begin.
Peace will be anything less than easy 
and will not be acomplished within a short 
while. There exist too many emotions, 
differences of interpretation, and major 
obstacles to make this a rapid process. 
However, when all sides succomb to the 
notion that failure means the risk of 
tommorrow, peace will have its greatest 
chance to succeed.
Bathroom Issue Slows ERA
A ridiculous but malicious rumor 
that the Equal Rights Amendment will 
infringe on individuals rights to privacy is 
so firmly entrenched in the minds of 
many Americans that it poses a real threat 
to the Amendments passage, Judy 
Langford Carter warned today.
Writing in the current (April) issue of 
Redbook magazine, Ms. Carter, a consul
tant to President Jimmy Carter on ERA, 
called upon all women -with common 
sense to help put the bathroom issue to 
rest once and for all. The opposition has 
cunningly concocted this emotional 
issue to hide the real issues of legal rights, 
Ms. Carter charged, declaring that the lie 
is not only laughable but damaging and 
destructive.
People actually believe this malicious 
rumor, Ms. Carter asserted with dismay, 
because of a deep, unspoken fear they 
have about bathrooms. People dont like 
to think or talk about bathrooms, she 
said, and the manipulators, who started 
the rumor that ERA could possibly affect 
the right to privacy in public facilities 
knew this full well.
The rumors were simply repeated over 
and over, and the bathroom issue became 
attached to the otherwise legitimate 
political debate about the respective rights 
of men and women, she explained. The 
effectiveness of that bit of demagogic 
intelligence has been enormous, she 
commented. The bathroom rumors are 
firmly entrenched.
A malicious rumor has become a 
monster, Ms. Carter asserted, preying on 
common sense but useful for the political 
purposes of a few devious people. . .who 
are hard at work keeping it and other 
equally shaky objections alive in unratified 
states.
Urging both men and women to look at 
the cold legal facts, Ms. Carter said in 
her Redbook article that the ERA is far 
too important to everyone to allow a 
ridiculous debate about bathrooms to have 
an effect on its passage.
Those facts are that an individuals 
right to privacy is already protected both 
by Congress and state legislatures and that 
in the 16 states which now have Equal 
Rights Amendments in their constiutions, 
no changes have been made.
Reminding the public that unisex 
bathrooms have existed for centuries in 
buses, trains and airplanes without a 
peep from all those people who now are 
so loudly concerned about them, Ms. 
Carter also pointed out that most large 
public restroom are provided by business. 
No business would think of offering 
bathroom facilites that would be 
offensive to its clientele, she commented.
Acknowledging that the truth is never 
as exciting as colorful innuendo that can 
be expanded upon or changed when 
needed, Ms. Carter said, If we fail to 
beat the Bathroom Issue, history will 
surely laugh.
Stealing aphone callisnt agame.
Most students play by the rules 
when placing a long distance 
call. They take advantage of bar
gain rates and make their calls 
during the discount periods II 
you're*not sure when you can call 
at discount rates, check your 
phone book
A few students think it's O K. to 
break the rules by stealing their 
telephone calls They're not beat
ing the system, they're taking 
advantage ot all ot us, because it 
drives up the cost ot providing 
telephone service
Students who break the rules also 
run the nsk of paying a large iihe 
Spending time in jail And getting 
themselves a permanent police 
record.
It's just not worth it!
Bell of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

March 20, 1979TARTANPage 13
NDSL Exit Interview Needed f
If you have a loan and are leaving school Students with other types of loans need 
for any reason-expulsion, withdrawal, leave not & to financial aid office, but might 
of absence, or graduation, you are urged to 0^iate{l to go to the bank which loanget in touch with the financial aid office. ec* ^em t^ie moneY to have a similar disThe reason for this is that all students who cuss*on ^ -vou are not sure which type of 
have NDSL loans must attend an exit in^oans yu have, call the financial aid office 
terview before they go. The interviews oncheck the records for you.
ly take about fifteeen minutes.
Students may not be required to begin 
making their repayments if they are plan
ning to do certain approved activities after
they leave school. At ^interview you t0 make appointmentj ca|1 Pete R in  
W, h T.f rC',f 31 fCe f yOUr X'209SAlthuh yu ">W have your inpland, and they wUl tell you when you will teIview mymnt before , ^ ^ 
have to begin repayment and the amount ,erview Week has been designated as April % 
of payments. 2 to 11 ^
Friends Give Concert A
by Susan Borg
Friends of Robert Shmertz are a to open the event to the campus communi-^*
Failure of students with NDSL to atE 
tend an exit interview could result in 
serious and unnecessary financial problems # 
later. For more information, questions, or 
to make an appointment, call Pete Rapin at
Attention All Potential Beach Bums 
Who Plan to Head For The Sun 
And Surf! 
The TARTAN Is Offering Prizes For 
The Most Striking Female And 
Male Tan Or Bathing Suit. 
To Enter Stop By The TARTAN For 
A Photograph Between 4:00 And 
6:00 PM On Tuesday,
April 3rd. Entrants And Winners 
Will Be Featured In The April 
10th Issue.
The
group of singers and musicians who per
form the songs of Robert Shmertz. On 
Monday, April 9th at 8 PM, they will pre
sent a concert in the GSIA auditorium.
Robert Shmertz was a 1921 graduate of 
Carnegie Tech and a Professor of Design in 
the Department of Architecture for 35 
years. In addition to teaching and practi
cing architecture, Prof. Shmertz wrote 
songs. He wrote satirical ballads about 
Pittsburgh, Architecture, and campus life.
When Shmertz was teaching at CMU, his 
songs were well known on campus. Al
though his music has been sung by Burl 
Ives, Tennessee Ernie Ford, and Pete Seeger, most people at CMU now havent 
heard of Professor Shmertz or his music. 
Some people who remember Shmertz de
cided to remedy this. Rather than pre
senting the concert to the original small 
audience of faculty wives it was decided
ty.
The Friends of Robert Shmertz consist of 
5-12 people. The main members span three 
generations. Gretchen Shmertz Jacobs is a 
graduate of College of Fine Arts and has 
performed in numerous Scotch n Soda 
productions. John Jack Shmertz was a 
Mechanical Engineer at CIT. In addition to 
the children of Professor Shmertz, there is 
Jo Davidson, who is the main musician. Mr. 
Davidson has played the bagpipes in the 
Kiltie Band. The third generation is Warren 
Davidson (Jos son) whose grandfather,was 
a close friend of Shmertzs. The final main 
member of the group is Myra Elmers, a 
delightful elderly lady who was a con
temporary of Professor Shmertzs.
The concert will include Shmertzs songs 
that pertain to campus life and Pittsburgh. 
It should prove to be an interesting and 
enjoyable evening.
LAST CHANCE 
Senior Portraits 
April k and 5
SDC Invites Dormies
Student Dormitory Council 
and Resident Life invite all Dormitory 
Residents to Flagstaff Hill on Saturday, 
April 7, starting at 1 PM. There will be 
music, beverages, volley ball, races, etc.
If your floor or hall is interested in spon
soring or organizing an activity see your 
Resident Assistant.
In case of rain this event will be re
scheduled on April 14.
,,o' ed.es 
<e*e Jc'
\o^00<0->eS'
,.r o'
S0tV
Theres a healthy 
career for you 
in Allied Health Sciences.
Earn a Bachelor of Science Degree 
at Thomas Jefferson University: 
College of Allied Health Sciences.
It shouldn't surprise you to find 
out that we're tops in the 
related health sciences field. 
In fact, what our professionals 
know about health sciences 
could start you on a fascina - 
ting, fulfilling career Call or 
write for more information 
today.
Admissions Office 
College of Allied 
Health Sciences 
Thomas Jefferson 
University 
Philadelphia,
PA 19107
(215) 928-8891
Sign Ups This Week At 
Skibo Information Desk
SNAP, SNAP!
IT'S ASAPHOTO'S GRAND OPENING.
Thats right, ASAPHOTO means big smiles all around. 
Our brand new Oakland store is waiting to develop all 
your great events...as soon as possible. Thats why we 
call ourselves ASAPHOTO.
We do it q
s*e ,
" Grd 0V>*<'Month
uick and we do ii right on the premises, 
including passport pictures while you wait.
You get same day service and quality rr^? 
mistake-proof prints everytime.
We sell all the Kodak filmsLLSj 
and cameras too! So you can get 
everything you need for taking 
pictures of your great events.
And to make your smile even 
bigger, during this grand opening 
month you get free film 
developing, you pay for prints 
only and save up to 22%.
Remember...ASAPHOTO, We 
Develop Great Events, As Soon 
As Possible. This offer expires 
March 31,1979.m
Hours, 7:30 to 6 PM , 3527 Forties Aw., Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University
TENTATIVE UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE COURSES FOR SUMMER SESSIONS 
(1) - First Session: May 15  June 22; (2) - Second Session: June 25  August 3
* - Graduate Course Number
Carnegie-Mellon University
during the summer, 1979, will hold two 
six-week sessions as follows:
1 st SIX-WEEK SESSION 
May 15 - June 22
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd SIX-WEEK SESSION 
June 25  August 3
Regular Undergraduate and Graduate 
Courses
UNDERGRADUATE TUITION: 
$33/unit**  All undergraduates 
GRADUATE TUITION:
$50/unit** - CFA/CIT/MIS/AMS/H&SS 
$42/unit**  English and History 
M.A./D.A. candidates
**3 units = 1 credit
This is a tentative list of courses to be 
offered. The actual list of courses including 
class schedules will be announced and pub
lished depending upon student response. 
Application materials and further information 
will be mailed upon receipt of your inquiry. 
Please give your tentative reply as soon as 
possible by completing the attached form 
and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Phone (412) 578-2082
Carnegie-Mellon University
Name
Mailing Address
Present School
I am interested in the following course(s)
Course Number Title Session
Please return this form to:
mwwr I 
Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh. Pa. 15213
readgcnIuitwhltkmubsdg,c sbU SAFg.gpIgsw Fbgnc1C
twhllOTIqsbg, readgcnIu lw Fbgnc1C
twhxlWTIqsbg, readgcnIu LLw FbgncxC
rgHg. SbqgbaaIgbqilxhxtkLbnIyUF,ngyb ny SbqgbaaIgbq oa,esbg,cw Fbgnc1C12-211Ey.gU oa,esbg,c lw Fbgnc1C
lxhxlkosnaIgs.c12 Fbgnc1C
rydKFnaI E,gab,ailkhltYLbnIyUF,ngyb ny rydKFngbq | vTRNR|GCw Fbgncl oxC
lkhlllLbnIyUF,ngyb ny rydKFngbq P bybhvTRNR|GCw Fbgncl oxC
osneadsng,ci21-121rs.,F.Fc l11 Fbgnc(1)21-121rs.,F.Fc l ca.MhKs,aUC11 Fbgnc(11(2)21-122rs.,F.Fc LL IaqF.sI yM ca.MhKs,aUC11 Fbgnc(1 oxC
xlhlx(rs.,F.Fc LLL IaqF.sI yI ca.MhKs,aUC11 Fbgnc(1 oxC
xlhlYlrydKFnsngybs. #gbasI |.qapIsw Fbgnc(1M2)
xlhxDlTIUgbsIu mgMMaIabngs. SAFsngybc ca.MhKs,aU yb.uCYBk Fbgncl oxC
xlhxDx*sIngs. mgMMaIabngs. SAFsngybc ca.MhKs,aU yb.uCYBk Fbgncl oxC
xlhxD(?a,nyI |bs.ucgc ca.MhKs,aU yb.uCYBk Fbgnc(1 oxC
xlhxDk#gbasI *IyqIsddgbq ca.MhKs,aU yb.uCYBk Fbgncl oxC
xlhxDO:IsKe NeayIu ca.MhKs,aU yb.uC 'YBk Fbgnc(1 oxC
oa,esbg,s.xYhllxv.FgU oa,esbg,c lw Fbgnc1C
SbqgbaaIgbqixYhlxlNeaIdyUubsdg,c lw Fbgnc(1)
xYhlYlEnsng,c sbU mubsdg,cw Fbgnc(1)
xYhxwlSbqgbaaIgbq S,ybyduw Fbgnc1C
oans..FIqu sbUxOh(xx*Iy,acc oans..FIqu12 Fbgnc(1 oxC
osnaIgs.c E,gab,aixOh((x*eucg,s. oans..FIqu LLw FbgncloxC
xOh(ktEadgbsIw Fbgncl oxC
xOhOkkoans..FIqg,s. *Iyp.adc8sIB FbgncloxC
xOhOkDoscnaIc *Iy0a,nHsIB FbgnclCxQ
xOhOOkNeacgcHsIB Fbgnc(1 oxC
(whxxO|bs.ucgc! Eubneacgc sbU SHs.Fsngyb LLw Fbgncl oxC
*eucg,ci((hlxl*eucg,c li oa,esbg,c ca.MhKs,aUC10 Fbgnc(1 C xC
((hlxx*eucg,c LLi Jasn sHac sbU TKng,c ca.MhKs,aUC10 Fbgncl oxC
((hlx(*eucg,c LLLi S.a,nIg,gnu sbU osqbangcd ca.MhKs,aUC10 Fbgnc(1 oxC
((hlxwS.a,nIybg,c l10 Fbgnc1C
Ensngcng,ci(Dhxll*Iypspg.gnu sbU |KK.gaU Ensngcng,c lw Fbgnc(1 ox^
(Dhxlx*Iypspg.gnu sbU |KK.gaU Ensngcng,c LLw Fbgnc(1 oxC
(Dhxlk*Iypspg.gnu sbU Ensngcng,c lw FbgncloxC
(DhxlD*Iypspg.gnu sbU Ensngcng,c LLw Fbgncl oxC
(DhxlwEnsngcng,s. oaneyUc MyI msns |bs.ucgc lw Fbgnc(1M2)
(DhxxtEnsngcng,s. oaneyUc MyI msns |bs.ucgc LLw Fbgncl oxC
macgqbiklhltxLbnIyUF,ngyb ny macgqblW FbgncxC
klhllDrs..gqIsKeuw Fbgnc(2)
klhlxxLbnIyUF,ngyb ny *eynyqIsKeuw FbgncxC
mIsdsikYhlw(*.su |bs.ucgc DZxkhOZxtC12 Fbgnc(2)
kYhOxkf?yg,a NIsgbgbq MyI nea |,nyI DZxkhOZxtC12 Fbgnc(2)
oFcg,ikOhlWxEy.Maqa sbU mg,nsngyb l6 Fbgnc(2)
kOhlWYEy.Maqa sbU mg,nsngyb LL6 FbgncxC
kOhxtO!wtOfJgcnyIu yM Gynsngybw Fbgnc(2)
kOhYYx-aupysIU JsIdybu sbU oFcg,gsbcegK l6 FbgncxC
kOhYY(-aupysIU JsIdybu sbU oFcg,gsbcegK LL6 FbgncxC
kOhOxOf?y,s. *aUsqyqu l Na,ebgAFaC( FbgncxC
kOhOxWf?y,s. *aUsqyqu LL RaKaInygIaC( FbgncxC
kOhWDOf|UdgbgcnIsngyb sbU EFKaIHgcgyb gb oFcg, SUF,sngyb
OZlDhWZ(C6 FbgncxC
kOhWO(f*Igb,gK.ac yM oFcg, SUF,sngyb DZxkhOZl(C6 Fbgnc(2)
kOhWOkfrybnadKyIsIu *Iyp.adc gb oFcg, SUF,sngyb6 Fbgnc(2)
kOhw(lfmgIa,naU RacasI,e6 Fbgnc(2)
|IniDthllw!OlwfmIs8gbqw Fbgnc(2)
DthxxD!OxDf*sgbngbqw Fbgnc(2)
Dthx(l!O(lfE,Iaab *Igbngbqw Fbgnc(2)
Dthx((!O((fRa.gaMw Fbgnc(2)
Dthx(k!O(kf#gneyqIsKeuw Fbgnc(2)
Dthx(O!O(OfLbnsq.gyw Fbgnc(2)
DthxkY!ODYfoans.,IsMncw Fbgnc(2)
DthxDW!ODWfvgpaIw Fbgnc(2)
Dth(Y(!OY(f:.scc8yI1gbq yI1ceyK DZxkhOZl(Cw Fbgnc(2)
Dth(kl!OklfraIsdg, E,F.KnFIa yI1ceyK OZlDhWZ(Cw Fbgnc(2)
Dth(Dt!ODtf*y.uacnaI Racgb E,F.KnFIa yI1ceyK DZxkhOZl(Cw Fbgnc(2)
Dth(Dl!ODlfE,F.KnFIaZoans. vspIg,sngyb yI1ceyK OZlDhWZ(Cw Fbgnc12)
Dth(Wt!OWtfrybnadKyIsIu |Inw Fbgnc(2)
|UdgbgcnIsngyb sbUOthltlS.adabnc yM gbUFcnIgs. |UdgbgcnIsngybw Fbgnc(1)12)
osbsqadabnOthlxl|,,yFbngbq lw Fbgnc(1)(2)
E,gab,aiOth(llTIqsbgsngybs. PaesHgyI lPFdnc(1112)
Oth(DlvyFbUsngybc yM #s8w Fbgnc(21
Oth(Ol*IyUF,ngyb lw Fbgnc(1)12)
Oth(WlosI1angbq lw Fbgnc(11(2)
Oth(wlvgbsb,a lw Fbgnc(1)
OthYxxrycn |,,yFbngbqw Fbgnc(2)
OthYElS.a,nIybg, msns *Iy,accgbqw Fbgnc(1)
BOthYwlvgbsb,a LLw Fbgnc(2)
S,ybydg,ciO(hlttS,ybydg, |bs.ucgc sbU rybnadKyIsIu *Iyp.adc lw Fbgnc(11
O(hxttS,ybydg, :Iy8ne sbU v.F,nFsngybcw Fbgnc(1)
O(hxktRacyFI,a |..y,sngyb Lb s osI1an S,ybyduw Fbgnc(1)
O(hYkwPabaMgn rycn |bs.ucgcw Fbgnc(1)
Sbq.gceiODhltt*Iyp.adc gb Igngbqw FbgncHH2)
ODhltlvg,ngyb sbU vs,nw Fbgnc(2)
ODh(xlEes1acKasIaw Fbgnc(1)
ODh(xx|UHsb,aU EnFUu! Ees1acKasIawZlx FbgncxC
ODhkltvg,ngyb yI1ceyKw Fbgnc(2)
ODhkxtrIasngHa Igngbq yI1ceyKw FbgnclC
ODhOt(foyUaIb NeayIgac yM ReanyIg, sbU nea Nas,egbq yM
rydKycgngyb12 FbJcxC
ODhWODfNea NIsqg, EKgIgn gb yI.U #gnaIsnFIa12 FbgncxC
ODhWWtfEnFUgac Lb *yanIulx FbJc(2)
JgcnyIuiOwhxx(*Iyp.adc Lb |daIg,sb JgcnyIui Nea *IacgUab,uw Fbgnc(11
OwhxYYrIgda sbU Fcng,a Lb |daIg,sb JgcnyIuw FbJclC
OwhxWxJgcnyIu yM nea *gnncpFIqe Raqgybw FbJclC7PhxPlPFbJclC
OPhYOOEas sbU masneP FbgnclC
OPhOtxfrLHJ sI sbU Ra,ybcnIF,ngyb! lWDthlWWt12 FbgncxC
OPhOtWfrIgda sbU Fcng,a Lb |daIg,sb JgcnyIu12FbJcxC
OwhWOtfLbnadsegK Lb JgcnyIg,s. RacasI,e l12 FbgncxC
OwhWWwfNea Nas,egbq yM cnyIu MyI nFddcI ryddFbgnu ryGaqa
LbcnIF,nyIclx FbJcxC
OwhWwDfLMg JgnnyM u6/1 x FbgncnC
WthDWO|acneang,cw Fbgnc(11
gIgUcd. cgdgsb WxhltlLbnabcgHs PyqeFggbq NIab,elx FbJclC
sbU #ocIcnFIc gWlhltxLbnabcgHa Paqgbbgbq vIab,elx FbJcPC
DxhlxlLbny bsgHa Paqgbbgbq :aIdsb12 FbJc(11
WxhlxxLbnabcgHa Paqgbbgbq :yIdablx FbJcfC
snhlYlLbnabcgHa P qgbbgbq LKsb.gelx FbJclC
*cu,ey.yqu n88-101:abaIs. *cuaeaMsquPFbJc(11

---------------------------------------------------

xur^pyW feste

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16TARTANMarch 20, 1979
TARTAN FOUO
EDITOR: LISA AMOWITZ
ASSISTANT EDITOR: CHERYL GOODMAN
ART DIRECTOR: TOM HART
COVER DESIGN: TOM HART
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS:
HUGH WATKINS 
JANET MARTIN 
DIANE LAUBLE 
ALAN SPERO 
GARY FABIAN
Volume 79 , Number
ooooooooooooooogoogugvugguuwocATTENTION Folio Readers (both of you). 77,< 
publication is now under new management. There 
has been a coup detat of sorts. The old staff has 
been tastefully shot and we the new staff, Lisa 
Amowitz, Cheryl Goodman and Tom Hart want 
to introduce ourselves. The new motto around 
here is "IF YOU DON'T LIKE IT STUFF IT.  
(only kidding) We hope that our enthusiasm will 
stimulate some inventive writing 
(UPCOMING IN FOLIO 79) -
A featured story "Mens Room
(illustrations are needed)
Folio Funnies - 4 pages of comics only
-Potpourri Folio - interesting tidbits, facts and 
stories
-Graduation Issue - thoughts on leaving CMU. 
IDOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC
The Penguin
by Edgar Kolman Poe
Once upon a midnight dreary, 
while I studied weak and weary,
Over a humongous volume of minute electronic 
lore While I nodded, nearly napping, 
suddenly there came a tapping, 
As of someone gently rapping,
rapping at my dorm room door; 
Only this and nothing more."
Ah, distinctly I remember,
it was in bleak December, 
As each empty beer can joined the growing litter 
on  the floor,
Anxiously, I waited morrow;
vainly I had sought to borrow 
From my textbook knowledge to follow
follow and retain for eight hours more 
Until my Double E final
which would begin in eight hours more; 
Then we forgot forevermore.
Then my mind, in the stillness,
moved in overworked illness, 
Chilled mefilled me with fantastic terrors 
never felt before;
So that now to still the beating of my heart 
I stood repeating, "Not the Narcs, just some 
turkey banging at my dorm room door; 
Just some obnoxious turkey entreating entrance 
at my dorm room door.
That is it and nothing more."
Mouse silently I slid to the hole a poster hid, 
And knew my sash was as safe as I could insure. 
Behind this Middle-earth poster was all the dope 
that I could muster,
Though I've oft repeated flustered,
" 'Tis less than I can endure, Just enough to 
get me high when Life's too big a chore; 
Merely that and little more.
I flung the door wide open  you see, I actually 
was hoping to catch some foolish freshman agwaking at my door
But there was nowhere in that hall any sort of 
buffoon at all, An empty, dimlit hallway 
without anyone I could rend and gore 
Just embarrassed me and no one more.
Shutting the door behind me, I felt something 
brush by my knee and then I saw a sight I 
thought my insanity would assure: 
Zipping through while 'twas still open, from the 
door there came a penguin!
Who has just invited himself in and made right at 
.home upon my floor 
Amid the beer cans and the clothes piles this artic 
bird installed himself upon the floor,
As if he'd swelt there oft before.
While at this vision looking down, my face I 
twisted to a frown.
This bird's purpose in my room breifly, you 
quack, why this visit to me, I implore?
Why choose this room and place to port in, I 
must implore,
As respite from night's Plutonian shore?"
But that quaint little penguin just ignored my 
ignoble raving,
And waddled about my room, All its secrets to 
explore. 
Bird I truly have to study; I think your interupt 
cruddy.
Go lest I harm thy body!" as he wandered by my 
door.
The penguin sat unruffled as he settled in the 
corner behind my door,
And then he answered,"Nevermore."
At that word, the penguin spoken,
I had thought I'd too much toking.
So I rubbed my eyes for my mind this hallucin
ation to ignore,
But this fowl apparition continued to be 
an imposition,
On my sanity's condition
this avian with whom I had poor rappore, 
By his insolence: Nevermore.
"Be that word sign of our parting, 
crooked bird!" I shreiked upstarting,
"Get thee back into the hallway so your presence 
I'll get o'er!
Leave no sign of you, bird; leave without 
another bird!
Depart before you leave a turd upon my already 
littered floor!
I need return to my study and need no penguin 
darkening my door!"
Quoth the penguin,"Nevermore."
And the penguin is still sitting, never flitting, 
sometimes shitting,
Beneath my postered hobbits that hide the 
hole I bespoke before.
So, to my studies back I went, 
my priorities remain'd unbent;
Many notes I had to frequent, while the adverb 
for morning was still 'before.'
Indeed, my final would begin in just eight hours 
more.
Shall I e'er_be_ rid of that penguin? Nevermore!

---------------------------------------------------

March 20, 1979-TARTAN-Page 17
Beowulf Revisited And Revised
ALAN SPERO
(Hrothgar, king of the Danes, has an ancestry 
filled with exceptional deeds. (His father, 
Ragthor, was the first Danish king to install Portajohns on castle construciton sites). The glory of 
his rule was symbolized by his game room, com 
plete with two relt-covered billiard tables and a 
coke machine. The room was called: The Hall of 
Eating, Drinking, and Vomiting, or, Joe's. The 
peasants were happy stumbling home and the 
warriors shot billiards all night (besides frequent
ing the upstairs with a fairmaiden or two). But in 
time disaster came to the land in the form of two 
monsters: Grendel, and his mother, Anita Bryant, 
Both were of hideous shape and smell.)
To Hrothgar was granted scores of whores
Success in billiards; thousands of patrons
Obeyed him gladly; his wealth increased
He built a hall; to end all halls
And on the first floor; a game room was made
A place to eat: a place to drink
But a place to be merry; was built upstairs
Where in to portion to old and young
With patron vomit; curdling green
And the warriors rejoiced; as they pulled down
their zippers
And sharpened their cues; to try some snooker 
And the King rejoiced; for he layed heavy taxes 
But the peasants cared not, too drunk were 
they
^ I
And carousing shouts filled the night 
And mind-blowing headaches filled the day 
And Hrothgar laughed; happy was he.
Then an evil spirit who dwelt in the South 
Heard of the hall; Joe's was its name 
Where men could make all women they wished 
Where men could also; make other men! 
Prejudice filled not, the hall called Joe's
The evil beast had no wish
To travel up to the freezing north
And leave her warm, comfortable, and roomy
Condominium in the tropical zone
So she sent her son, Grendel his name.
So the lordy warriors lived in ecstasy
At ease and happy; till this fiend from Florida
Began a series of savage crimes
And Grendel became known to all men
A demon who picked on the poor wretched
gays
Leaving them squished and covered with blood 
And the king was scared; his profits down 
So he put out a sign on the door of the hall:
Closed for Repairs - Reopening Soon!
(Night raids by Grendel gradually diminishea 
the number of Hrothgar's homosexual warriors. 
And when Grendel could not find a gay, he took 
a straight warrior and with one quick blow made 
him a neuter. Then he killed them. Now, no one 
dared enter Joe's. The Kingdom was losing 
money. Hrothgar was very concerned for his life. 
The peasants were now sober twenty-four hours a 
day and wise to his taxation moves. Hrothgar was 
in despair.
But news of this dire calamity reached the land 
of the Geats and it came to the knowledge of the 
ruler Hygelac, a clever businessman who knew 
about Joe's as a potential goldmine. So he sent his 
dumb homosexual masochistic nephew, Beowulf 
with his group of "boys", to see what could be 
done. And if Beowulf could defeat the monster, 
then Hygelac would be in good bargaining condi
tion for the hall called Joe's.)
So Hygelac sent his nephew Beowulf 
Strong as a horse; dumb as one too too 
To rescue the Danes; from their hideous plight 
And give him an edge on the buying of Joe's 
He gave Beowulf a mighty vessel 
To sail to the land, besieged by Grendel 
Strange was the band he gathered around him 
Fourteen "friends" whom Beowulf played with 
They traveled the sea; across the great whalepath
Giggles were heard on the gay journey 
Then Beowulf boldTy landed in the land
Terror-stricken by Grendel; and he and his men 
Strode to the castle of the great Danish king 
And right next to the castle lay the great hall 
Scene of tragedies; night after night
Beowulf strode honorably into the chambers 
Of the stricken Danish king; and Beowulf stood 
Tall and strong; blonde and handsome 
In front of his majesty; King Hrothgar the 
Greedy
And he spoke to the king in a strange highpitched voice
Hail! King Hrothgar! I am Hygelac's main 
thane
Here to help you rid your land
Of a disgusting monster, Grendel his name
I have fought many nicors that swam in the sea 
Felt their cold arms squeeze out my breath 
Their teeth have slashed me, so have their claws 
I have fought swamp beasts; who beat on my 
chest
And poked my eyeballs and cracked my ribs 
I will stand up to Grendel; no matter the smell 
And let him get me; try to squash me 
I shall let him beat me, stand up to the blood 
Of this fearsome beast that devours your gays." 
So moved was Hrothgar, he stood up and 
spoke,
"Why have you done these things to yourself? 
Endured the pain, of many a nightmare 
Why will you stand up to Grendel now 
Worst of the worst; nightmarish beast?"
And Beowulf smiled and answered the king,
"I love pain; I love the feel of pain 
Oh hit me again foul beastt I'll cry."
He turned to Hrothgar; face to face 
"I'll do it fdr fun; it feels so good."
And with that Beowulf strode from the room 
Leaving Hrothgar alone in his thoughts 
Beowulf and his boys strode into Joe's 
To await the monster; Grendel the smelly.
And Hrothgar sat atop his throne
And thought to himself, "Oh God, please help
me!"
"I ask for a hero, you send me a wimp 
Along with his band of little gay boys 
Oy, what a fag!" And Hrothgar put down
His head on his arm and wept in despair.
[At nightfall, the Geats took over the hall called 
Joe's, sleeping with Beowulf. Hrothgar went up to 
the tallest tower in the kingdom and jumped off. 
Sinews snapped and bones broke as he hit the 
ground. His head landed in a pile of cow dung.] 
Then through the shades of enshrouding night
The fiend came stealing; the archers wet their 
beds
But the hero watched; waiting ecstaticly for 
the foe
Abiding in anger the issues of war.
From the stretching moors of the dense ever
glades
Grendel came slurping, accursed of God 
A murderous ravager of tremendous size 
Of overpowering scent; ready to grab 
Homosexual heroes and give them their due 
Grendel was tall with two long green arms 
And sharp-spiked claws, he used Lee's Hard-AsNai/s
And Grendel came upon the first sleeping Geat
And picked him up and gulped him down
The warrior spilled out the other end
A pile of putrid bloody flesh
Then Grendel turned towards the next sleeping
Geat
But was quite surprised when the Geat jumped 
up
And cried in an ingredibly high-pitched voice, 
"Oh hit me hard, though thou smellest like 
vomit

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-TARTAN-March 20, 1979
After drying for days on fresh cow dung;
Hit me again, I await your blows."
And Beowulf jumped on top of the beast 
And punched him and hit him and beat on his 
arms
But Grendel felt nothing; immune was he 
For he had put a curse on men's hands and feet 
That allowed them not to give him pain 
Not even if the foot wore a sharp spiked boot 
Or the hand held tight the sharpest of swords 
So Grendel proceeded to beat on Beowulf 
Who howled with delight at every blow 
But after a while Beowulf tired 
And black and blue marks shown on his skin 
"You've mussed my makeup," Beowulf cried 
And with that the hero of Hygelac'c blood 
Drove his knee hard into Grendel's groin 
Who yiped in a pain yet not experienced 
For his curse said nothing about men's knees 
And the great beast of hell toppled over in pain 
Screaming and screaming. Beowulf loved it 
And he hit the foul beast once again very hard 
In the center of the sperm-box, Grendel was 
dead.
The rest of the Geats jumped up in joy 
And surrounded their leader and shouted out 
loud,
"Hail to Beowulf, men of men."
And Beowulf looked at his band of "friends" 
And said, "Let us now return to bed."
And giggles filled the hall called Joe's
Once filled with terrror, now filled with joy. 
[With morning came happiness as the Danes gath
ered in the hall called Joe's to view the bloody 
remains of Grendel. Beowulf wanted th whole 
world to know but one of the late king's advisors 
suggested that not a word be told to the press. He 
told all the people in the hall that if Grendel's 
mother ever found out she would be quite piqued 
so he suggested that everyday the papers release 
stories about Grendel killing gay Danes. That way 
she would never find out. But too proud and 
dumb was Beowulf and he leaked Grendel's death 
to the press. Grendel's mother, Anita Bryant, 
found out and was enraged. She immediately 
chartered a plane up north (after purchasing a 
very warm mink coat.). She would avenge her 
son's death by wreaking havok on all Danes, gay 
or not]
Beowulf waited, for the second fierce foe 
He stood in the hall once again siezed by terror 
All other Danes and the rest of his men 
Waited upstairs in the'roomsof merry-making 
There was a silence of death, Beowulf waited 
Then outside of the hall a rumbling was heard 
The doors to the hall burst off their hinges 
The walls cracked from the force known as 
Anita
"You killed my son, smelly as he was 
I didn't care if he stunk, he loved his mom 
I sent him here on a mission of God 
To rid the land of such sins as gay Danes 
Now that you've killed him, I have come
I o rid this land; of the Devil's plagues 
Pestilence known as homosexuals is only the 
start
I'll also get rid of other Satanic diseases
Such as Blacks and Jews, Puerto Ricans and
Pinkos
Mormons and Japs and televison talk show 
hosts
And all others who oppose my view of life
But first I'll kill you; the murderer of my son!"
And Anita sharpened all her claws
Her legs were set; steel springs were they
She sprung at Beowulf; standing still
Waiting to feel the ecstatic pain
But something happened like a flash
Of lightning speed; a shot of wisdom
Struck inside the hero's head
And instead of standing for the coming pain
Beowulf pulled out a Thomson Sub
And blew Anita away in mid-air
She fell on the floor, a crumpled monster
And then the Geats and Danes alike
Stepped out of the rooms; down the stairs
And surrounded Beowulf with wide open eyes
And the hero spoke, slow and low
In a defined manner, showing much, wisdom,
"Who was she? Was she God?
To decide how men shall live their lives 
To decide who lives; to decide who dies 
Twisting a book 4000 years old 
Why have you stood it? Just sat there and took 
it? ,
Taken the pain like I did when I was foolish 
You must decide when to stop the pain 
Or surrender to apathy, the final victor 
For apathy feeds on fools like you 
On hypocrites it can always depend 
On saying-, 'As long as I'm not hurt 
Why should I bother to save my brother?'
And why should you worry when the gays are 
dying
If you're not gay, why even bother
And when the blacks are dying in scores
It doesn't matter if you're not black
And when they come for the Jews
There is no hassle, if you're not Jewish
But what will you do, when they come for
you"
And with that Beowulf's wisdom vanished 
Like a puff of smoke in which it came 
But the Geats and Danes standing 'round 
Were awestrucken by such words of wisdom 
Beowulf noticed the gun in his hand 
What was it there for, not to shoot his friends 
The only other thought that crossed his mind 
Must be the answer, so Beowulf blindly - 
Followed that thought, raised the gun 
And blew off his head, it landed on the floor. 
And with the death, of the hero Beowulf 
The homosexual clod of Hygelan's thane 
The wisdom departed from the Geats 
And from the Danes, whom he had saved 
They picked up his body, not knowing his name 
And dumped him in a pit, saved only for cow 
dung
And covered the hole, and elected a king 
And rejoiced in the hall, the hall called Joe's 
Paying no mind, to the wisest of words:
'THOSE WHO FORGET HISTORY,ARE
DOOMED TO REPEAT IT."
The End

---------------------------------------------------

March 20, 1979-1 ARTAN-Page 19
Eternal Perdition
by Gary R. Fabian
"I just can't believe that they call such trash a 
classic novel. Incest, rape and murder are not my 
idea of timeless material." With this Delilah fin
ished her tirade on the worthlessness of The 
Monk (by Matthew Lewis). I had felt that it was 
really a classic for all the same reasons she felt it 
wasn't What is more universal than lust, revenge, 
and passion in general? And I fee! to get every 
passion into a non-boring work in a unique way 
makes it a good candidate for the Classics catagory.
"I agree with Delilah," I felt sick I knew that 
Paul was going to point out the Christian moral of 
the story and I just was not ready for that at nine 
o'clock in the morning. "I feel the story shows 
that men should not aspire to be like God, rather 
they should be slaves to his will. Oh and one 
other point I would like to make is that I feel the 
author has cheated us by using magic and witch
craft as the excuse for the Monk's fall instead of 
showing us that it was his lack of Christian virtue 
in general that caused his fall and will cause his 
soul eternal perdition."
Leaping at my chance to offend Paul I rudely 
interrupted him by laughing very loud. "Gary I 
really do not think that you can take this point so 
lightly, after all this theme is essential to under
stand the work in general."
"But Paul I think you are missing the point 
completely. The author was showing the depths 
to which a human can sink when he has abandon
ed hope and he gives up to despair. After all this 
charge of witchcraft and magic is ridiculous, it is 
absurd. The author is using a non-reality to make 
his point that much clearer." I was not really sure 
what I had just finished saying but I was hoping 
the patronizing tone of my voice would shut him 
up. As it turned out my didactic little speech was 
unnecessary because the bell rang before Paul had 
a chance of responding. On the way out he did 
get in one more dig by accusing me of being nar
row minded and not aware of all the snares the 
devil had laid for me. As he was walking down the 
hall in front of me I made an extremely silly face 
at his back.
"Finally snapped eh Gary? Can't take the pres
sure anymore?"
"Not yet," I muttered, as I twitched conpulsively.
"Want to come to a party Saturday?" Sue had 
an evil glint in her eye, which reminded me of sev
eral literary evil seductresses.
"Will there be any sins committed at the party?
I wouldn't want to condemn my soul to eternal 
perdition."
"Of course want me to list some of the more 
popular sins we will be indulgin in? Gluttony, 
sloth ..."
"Enough! Where is the party?"
"At my house. You can plan to spend the night 
if your conscience will permit you."
"We'll make a deal between us don't worry. 
What time?"
"Around 9:00. See you later." Before I had a 
chance to even say good bye she was gone, almost 
as if she had . . . just disappeared! Oh well, after 
all she was on the basketball team and she did do 
a lot of running.
I survived the rest of the week and attended 
Sue's party. The sinning was intense and many 
souls were lost that night. My conscience had
next Sunday, and that was agreeable to me but 
something more important came up to stop me: 
my lab book was due Monday and I was, well, 
just a little behind in the write-ups. So like the 
good student I am, under pressure, I left the party 
a good three hours before dawn so I could start to 
work on my labs.
strength pain relievers I set to work. Four hours 
later not only was I still working on the same lab, 
but on the same series of calculations. 'This is 
incredible! I don't ever remember seeing this cal
culation before. Was it done in lecture?" I search
ed my notebook, no calculation. "Maybe if I eat 
something I'll be able to think more clearly." But 
much to my dismay after a box of chocolate mint 
cookies and several thousand calories of carbon
ated beverages I still did not understand the calcu
lation. "What can I do?" I was surprised at how 
calm I was, so I threw my book against the wall 
and screamed obscenities. Then I felt a little-bet
ter so I sat down and tried again. "If there was 
only some way to finish this so I could maximize 
my pleasure and my QPA and minimize my 
agony."
Never had I seen such hasty service! Sitting on 
the edge of my bed was, what I perceived to be,
a demon. His skin had a reddish tinge but his 
wings were a mottley brown, and, I was very sur
prised to find out, he had no tail.
"Excuse me but your rewording of the cliche 
expression, 'I would do anything for ... ' attract
ed my attention."
"You are what I think you are aren't you?"
"Surely! Although I am not the devil, I can 
still easily grant your desires."
I was fascinated! Such an event had not tran
spired for the last five or six hundred years as far 
as I knew, and there I was inthe same room with a 
demon. I felt a strange kind of honor at his pres
ence, awe would be a good word I guess. "Are we 
supposed to make a deal?"
He laughed. It was not a chortle just a good natured laugh. I supposed him to have realized my 
naivete in such matters.
"Yes we are supposed to make a deal."
"Wait! Wait don't tell me" I ran to my desk 
and picked up my copy of The Monk. Frantically 
I flipped through the pages until I found the page 
I wanted. "You want my soul!" He looked genu
inely pleased at my revelation."But doesn't that 
send my soul into eternal perdition?" I checked 
the text.
"It's really not that bad. You've heard the old
I was skeptical, after all this may be an elabor
ate ploy to entice me into a cheating rap. It sud
denly occurred to me that I had read something 
about how to get rid of such annoyances as dem
ons in some other book . . . yes . . . Morte D'Ar
thur (by Sir Thomas Malory).
"Hello, hello, I'm still here you know. They ex
pected me back hours ago if you don't make up 
your mind I might have to do something nasty to 
convince you to accept the deal. I have the papers 
all drawn up." He ruffled around in his pockets 
while I ruffled around looking for Morte D'Arthur.
"All you have to do is sign over your soul and 
we supply earthly pleasures for a limited amount 
of time." By now I had found the book and was 
flipping through pages looking for the passage 
that I just barely remembered. Luckily I had put 
a star beside it 'To get rid of the evil entity the

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-TARTAN-March 20, 1979
The
Maiden
Moral of the story: Don't complain about what 
appears to you to be cutting comers, they may 
saving one more soul by the money They save 
yours.
but I did it out of orderforehead, left shoulder, 
solarplexus...
"What are you doing?" I was sure I detected a 
note of rage in the demon's voice.
"Nothing," I replied, "Just making sure I'm 
not dreaming. Pinching myself you know. Offers 
like this don't come along every day."
He looked at me suspiciously and stood up, as
suming a menacing pose. Then I remembered, 
forehead, solar plexus, left shoulder, then right 
shoulder!
"What..." but before he could say anything 
else I finished making the sign. He looked ex
tremely bitter as he disappeared. Sort of like the 
salesperson you walk away from when they think 
you're actually going to buy the motorcycle you 
were looking at. But then not only did the 
disappear but so did my room, the building, the 
whole campus complex! I was left alone sitting 
amidst the rubble of the pnce famous university 
thanking God and Thomas Malory that I was still 
alive. Then I had a vision. Before me radiating a 
splendid light was Paul. He said, "You are much 
stronger than we had imagined. I have to admit I 
bet against you making it, but you passed. You 
didn't fall for the ultimate despair trick. Oh well 
congratulations." And with that he was gone. I 
could not help but to think about the expense 
that some deity had gone to to save my soul from 
eternal perdition. Before that time I had always 
wondered why maintenance was so bad.
A Poem in Imitation of Poe *s The 
Raven
by Neil F. Robbins
Once upon a midnight dreary, while I wandered, 
meek and leery,
Past many an x-rated movie and Times Square 
adult bookstore
While I plodded, nearly falling, suddenly there 
came a calling,
As of someone softly calling, calling from a dark
ened door.
'"Tis some maiden," I muttered, "calling from 
her darkened door
Only this and nothing more."
Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak De
cember,
And each separate buyer and vendor wrought his 
ghost upon the door.
Suddenly I feared the morrow;glad that I had 
sought to borrow 
From my friend's reserve of moneymoney for 
the maiden in the door
For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels 
placed in the door 
Nameless here for evermore.
Presently my passion grew stronger; hesitating 
then no longer,
"Miss," said I, "or Madam, truly your company I 
implore;
And the fact is I was passing, and so softly you 
were calling,
And so beautifully you were calling, calling from 
your darkened door,
That I could stay away no more"here she open
ed wide the door;
Quoth the maiden, "Wanna score?"
Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly 
spoken,
"Doubtless," thought I, "what she utters is her 
only stock and store,
Coined by some conniving master who complete
ly did possess her."
I followed fast and close behind her till her song 
one burden bore
Till my soaring Hope that guilt-ridden burden 
bore
Of "Want towanna score?"
And the silken sad uncertain rustling of her 
clothes while she was hustling 
Thrilled mefilled me with fantastic terrors never 
felt before;
So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I 
stood repeating:
"Tis some maiden entreating my entrance at her 
chamber door
Some rented maiden entreating my entrance at 
her chamber door;
This it is and nothing more."
There I lay engaged in sex, but no syllable ex
pressed
To the girl whose fiery lips how burned into my 
bosom's core;
This and more I lay divining, with my head at 
ease, reclining
On the cushion's velvet lining that the lamp-light 
gloated o'er
But whose velvet crimson lining with the lamp
light gloating o'er
She shall caress, ah, evermore!
And the Maiden, never stalling, still is calling, still 
is calling
From the eternal dusk of her darkened door;
And her lips have all the seeming of a volcano 
that is dreaming,
And the lamp-light o'er her streaming throws her 
shadow on the floor;
And my guilt from out that shadow that lies
floating on the floor
Shall be liftednevermore!

---------------------------------------------------

March 20, 1979TARTANPage 21
GreatOP

?re<*
yW'TP' \t*
"'Jpp1''Ho
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
ll00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
COLORING
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25
No
Ma lintments
Hill Sub-Council 
Meeting
SDC INVITES 
ALL HILL RESIDENTS TO A STUDY BREAK.
REFRESHMENTS 
WILL BE SERVED
TONIGHT!
Donner 8:30-9:30 
Hammerschlag 10:00-11:00
a

---------------------------------------------------

S#SrNRLr|# SG:LGSSREBBBf
LINKABIT CORPORATION, 
SAN DIEGO 
HAS A CAREER FOR YOU IN
SPACE & SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
LINKABIT offers you an opportunity to challenge and expand your abilities; to take advantage 
of exceptional career growth and personal reward opportunities; and to work in an environ
ment where innovation and individual performance are directed, encouraged and recognized 
by outstanding professionals.
Located near the University of California, San Diego, our facility offers ready access to San 
Diegos beaches, recreational and cultural offerings.
LINKABIT continues to build its reputation as a pacesetter in communication system research, 
development, design and implementation. Our rapid growth has created openings for indivi
duals with interests and backgrounds in:
 COMMUNICATION SYSTEM DESIGN MICROPROCESSOR BASED COMMUNICATION COMPONENTS DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION THEORY RF DESIGN LOGIC DESIGN REAL-TIME SOFTWARE DESIGN
 MICROPROCESSOR ARCHITECTURE TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT
 POWER SUPPLY DESIGN PACKET SWITCHING COMMUNICATION NETWORKS
LINKABIT Corporation is engaged in the development, design and manufacture of communi
cations systems and components primarily for satellite and space application.
LINKABIT was founded 10 years ago by a group of communication engineers. Since then, we 
have grown to a company of over 350 employees, including a growing number of Carnegie-. 
Mellon engineers.
IF YOUR CAREER OBJECTIVES MATCH OUR OPENINGS, DISCUSS YOUR PROFESSIONAL FUTURE 
WITH US AT OUR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR
MON., APR. 2nd
Should you be unable to meet with us, please 
send your resume to Donna Sale, Personnel Manager.
LINKABIT CORPORATION
10453 Roselle Street San Diego, Ca. 92121
An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer
* Others with relevant backgrounds welcome, too

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
Opera brings back former head of drama department
way. For ten seasons he was also producerdirector of the Great Lakes Shakespeare 
Festival in Lakewood, Ohio. Since leaving 
CMU, Carra has completed revisions for 
the fourth edition of his book, The Fund
amentals of Play Directing, originally co
authored with the late Alexander Dean and 
considered a standard text in the field. He 
is presently serving as creative consultant 
to a new television project being developed 
by Norman Lear of T.A.T. productions. 
Carra has also completed a new textbook, 
DirectoriaT Controls, forthcoming from 
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, and has served 
periodically as a guest lecturer and direc
tor, including giving a series of seminars on 
directing for staff of the American Con
servatory Theater in San Francisco.
William Brown is cast in the role of Cap
tain Macheath, with sopranos Roberta 
Cunningham and Lynne Engstrom as Polly 
Peachum and Lucy Lockit, respectively, 
the two chief rivals for Macheaths affec
tions. Bass-baritone Thomas Zimmerman 
plays Mr. Peachum, mezzo-soprano Myrna 
Paris is Mrs. Peachum, and baritone Timo
thy Dahlem plays the jailer, Mr. Lockit. All 
are graduate students majoring in opera. 
Musical preparation for the cast members, 
was provided by associate professor Ru
dolph Fellner. The chorus is composed 
of students in CMUs opera workshop.
Tickets for The Beggars Opera are $5 for 
adults and $2 for students. For reservations 
or further information, call the CMU Box 
Office, 578-2407. Box office hours are 
10 AM to 5 PM Monday through Friday.
A free preview of The Beggars Opera 
will be presented during the noon hour in 
the Skibo lobby', Monday, April 2. Stu
dents, faculty, and staff are invited to stop 
and enjoy excerpts of the production. This 
preview is sponsored by Campus Program 
Planning and CMU Opera Theatre.
Lawrence Carra, director for Beggars Opera, emphasizes instructions while speaking to cast.
The Beggars Opera, John Gays timeless 
satire of social and political corruption, 
will be presented April 5 through 8 as this 
seasons final production of the CamegieMellon University Opera Theatre.
Returning to Pittsburgh as guest stage di
rector of the 1728 ballad opera is Law
rence Carra, former head of CMUs drama 
department, whose last directing engage
ment here was CMUs production of Kiss 
Me Kate in 1977. The conductors will be 
CMU music department head Robert Page 
and graduate student Susan Melnick.
The four performances will be held at 
8 PM in the Alumni Concert Hall.
Set in Londons Newgate prison and 
its environs, the opera portrays the
escapades both inside and out of 
of Captain Macheath and such female 
cohorts as Polly Peachum, Jenny Diver, 
and Lucy Lockit. The opera was not only a 
hit in the eighteenth century London but 
also has sparked several modern adapta
tions including the Kurt Weill-Bertholt 
Brecht 1928 collaboration, The Three 
Penny Opera. CMUs production will be 
the 1920 version, with musical arrange
ments by Frederick Austin, which ran in 
London for 1,463 consecutive nights.
Carra was a member of the CMU faculty 
from 1946 until his retirement in 1977, 
with periodic leaves of absence to direct 
professional productions for television, re
gional theatres, and both on and off Broad-During rehearsals, Mr. Carra indicates his directions through example.
PPT receives support 'Misalliance' a challenge
Leonard Nimoy, known to television 
fans as Dr. Spock in Star Trek and to 
Pittsburgh Public Theater audiences as 
Malvolio in the Publics inaugural seasons 
production of Twelfth Night will appear at 
Carnegie Music Hall, Monday evening, 
April 2 at 8 PM in his one man multi-media 
show Vincent as a benefit for Pittsburgh 
Public Theater.
As Theo Van Gogh, Vincents brother 
and closest confident, Mr. Nimoy creates 
a highly moving intimate and humorous 
insight into the famous artists life. Over 
two hundred slides of Van Goghs paintings 
and sketches form a backdrop for this 
inique theatrical event with music by Don 
McLean.
In a letter to the Publics subscribers 
and supporters, Ben Shaktman, General 
Director of the Theater said, I have seen 
Mr. Nimoy perform Vincent. Its a 
memorable experience. Its poetry touches 
deeply and its tribute to a magnificent 
artist is itself a cause for celebration.
However, for this benefit performance. 
Mr. Nimoy lias volunteered to waive his 
entire fee as a gesture of very generous 
support for the Pittsburgh Public Theater.
Tickets for this benefit are now on sale 
to the public for $25 and $10 with 50% of 
the ticket cost tax deductible. To order, 
simply send a check or money-order along 
with a self-addressed envelope to Nimoy, 
Suite 1150, 300 Sixth Ave. Bldg., Pitts
burgh, PA 15222. No phone orders can 
be accepted.
Mayor Richard S. Caliguiri has extended 
the Pittsburgh Public Theaters rent-free 
lease of the Allegheny Community Theater 
from a present six months to nine months 
for the Publics Fifth Anniversary Season 
starting next fall, Ben Shaktman, General 
Director, announced today.
Mr. Shaktman noted, This will give us 
the choice of adding either a sixth produc
tion or a week to each of five productions 
to give disappointed theater-goers, who 
have been unable to get tickets to the Pub
lic in the past because productions were 
sold out, a better chance to become sub
scribers.
Mayor Caliguiri and the city of Pitts
burgh with their continued support and in
creased commitment to the Public Theater 
are providing an essential step in our mo
mentum towards permanence and great 
theater*
Mayor Caliguiri added, The Pittsburgh 
Public Theater is an asset to the citys cul
tural life. Im pleased to extend my coop
eration to such a highly professional thea
ter group and recommend their excellent 
productions to citizens of the Pittsburgh 
area.
The Publics final production this sea
son, Ntozake Shanges For Colored Girls 
Who Have Considered Suicide When The
Rainbow Is Enuf, opens Wednesday, March
14 and runs through May 6 at the ddy 
Theatre, 'Chatham College. For ticket infor
mation call the Publics Box Office at 323- 
1900. All major credit cards are accep ed 
for phone orders.
by David Sheward
The CMU Drama Department is setting 
no easy tasks for itself this season. Produc
tions have included the excruciatingly 
painful Greek tragedy The Trojan Women 
and that most demanding of musicals 
West Side Story. The 'current attraction is 
George Bernard Shaws Misalliance, one of 
the longer, and certainly wordier pieces in 
the Shavian canon. It was originally sub
titled A Debate In One Sitting. This pro
duction is mercifully and rather cleverly 
divided in half. The first act ends with cha
racter uttering explicatives like Byand 
Ill be-. The second act begins with 
-George and -damned.
The basic situation of a peaceful day at 
an underwear merchants country house 
interrupted by the plane crash of a reckless 
flyer and a female Polish daredevil seems 
an excuse for Shaw to articulate, at length 
his views on many diverse topics. The cha
racters get around to evolution, literature, 
business, imperialism, socialism, parentchild relationships, love and marriage and 
the relative incompatibility of the two, 
womens rights, youth, age, government 
and drainage.
An inherent problem in the play are the 
long stretches of dialogue which call for 
little stage actions. Shaw uses even this for 
conversational fodder. One character 
makes a remark that many idealistic works 
read better than they act,  like some peo
ples plays. Michael Piereces direction 
sometimes unavoidably bogs down into
scenes of characters sitting and talking, but 
the talk is fascinating and stationary place
ment of characters is used to advantage. 
Example: Two old men are sitting on one 
side of the stage and two young people are 
sitting on the other side. When one of the 
old men says that there is a gulf between 
young and old, parent and child, there 
really is. Pierce keeps the stage bouyantly 
alive for much of the evening, especially 
after the plane crash.
The excellent ensemble cast is led by 
Michael Cook as the underwear tycoonphilosopher and Yolanda Delgado as his 
strong willed daughter. Cook effortlessly 
surmounts the hurdle of a young man 
playing an old one. His is a compassionate 
and humorous portrayal of an elderly 
businessman in search of youth and adven
ture. Delgado is simply irresistible as the 
arrogant, vivacious coquette Hypatia. 
Patricial Tallman is equally beguiling as the 
Polish acrobat Lina Szczepanowska (say 
church fish three times and youve got 
it), particularly in an energetic monologue 
in which she declares herself an indepen
dent woman. J. Christopher OConnor and 
James Steliotes make valuable contribu
tions as a spoiled brat and a socialist clerk 
with a gun. Taso N. Stavrakis, Elizabeth 
Dolan, Lee Phifer and Patrick Dunster 
complete this exceptional cast.
Ann Parks setting and Bruce Goodrichs 
costumes create the perfect elegant Edwar
dian atmostphere.
This Misalliance, for the most part, is 
a lively and scintillating debate.

---------------------------------------------------

(SPONSORED BY: THE VEOANTIC SOCIETY)
VEDANTA:
INTRODUCTION TO SELFAWARENESS
THIS WILL BE A TALK ABOUT YOU, 
THE SUBJECT.
VEDANTA embodies a unique approach because it is a logical 
objective study about yourself. To study about your body you study 
anatomy and other related subjects; to study your mind you go in for 
psychology and psychiatry. However you who study these disciplines 
never have an opportunity to study about yourself, the subject. In fact 
if you, THE SUBJECT, were not here, study of any other subject would 
not be possible. VEDANTA concerns itself with understanding this 
subject and how the knowledge of you the subject would be useful 
in your day to day life. VEDANTA is by no means a commodity to be * 
palmed off, nor is it a religious trip, nor is it a series of cryptic words 
meant to boggle and baffle. It uses only clear, simple logical words 
in a scientific way which allows the appreciation of yourself, the 
subject, as you are.
The speaker will be Ms. Janani Cleary. She has undergone an ex
tensive study in VEDANTA for the past three years. This talk on intro
duction to VEDANTA deals with man's never ending pursuit of self
contentment and happiness. The purpose of the talk is to show how 
VEDANTA is a means for gaining this end. In the process the relation
ship between the individual and self-contentment will be unfolded.
WEDNESDA Y. MARCH 27
7:30 p.m.
WHERETT ROOM, SKIBO 
ADMISSION IS OPEN TO ALL AND IS FREE 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL:
VIVEK BAMMI - x2935, 362-5797 
VIBMU KALYAN - x2475, 683-4973
Page 24TARTANMarch 20,1979
'Made By Two' explores AC/DC relationships
she, roses, and the pink cow. But, decows initial entrance as comic highlight of 
spite the jarring transitions from flowers to the play.
cows, the lyrical nonsequitars are not off^ sum, Made By Two is a pleasant and
ensive. They are to be taken with a smile, light hearted lyric opera. Though its dancas they are performed. ing js not weu syncopated in places and
Although the songs lyrics don t contrisome voices occasionally quaver, the play
bute much to plot, their melodies are soosucceeds thanks to its music and humor,
thing and sweet. In combination with the Made By Two intentionally deals with roperformers animation and delivery, the mance in the sugariest, most maudlin
lilting music adds an extra dimension to terms, but does not drown one in sentithis lyric opera: snatches of emotion not mentality, for just when gush starts to
present in the words alone. Catherine Roovercome, the pink cow'saunters out and
berts sings especially potently. Her powerdances the basanova. What more need I
ful voice is clear and well controlled ^9
throughout Made By Two  more so than
those of the other leads. The chorus (June Made By Two: A Lyric Opera To Be 
Fortunato, Jed Harris, Barry Plumlee, TomSung will be running at Theatre Express,
Spinella) give sturdy performances as well, 4615 Baum Boulevard, through Aprif 1.
and harmonize engagingly while frolicking Performances are Thursdays through Satabout. One scene, in which they parade aurdays at 8:30 PM and Sundays at 2 PM;
cross stage in huge two-dimensional flower student tickets are $3. For further informaheaddresses, runs a close second to the tion, call 621-5454.
1. WHAT C-MU NEEDS IS A SMALLER PIZZA!
by Kate Bertrand
What can one say about a lyric opera 
that explores the similarities of heterosex
ual and homosexual love using a pink-tuxedoed dancing cow in red-striped basketball 
shoes? That its humorous and offbeat 
seems too obvious to mention, and that it 
takes a round about approach to its theme 
is self evident. Basically, Theatre Express 
version of Gertrude Steins Made By Two
is the epitome of kookiness and fun in its 
mockery of romantic love  AC and DC.
Made By Two opens with a narrator 
(Joan Kimmel) introducing the two main 
characters: a man (Catherine Roberts) 
and a woman (Susan Cash). From there the 
play rambles aimlessly along, unfolding al
most entirely in song. The nonsensical lyr
ics are drawn from several areas; in the 
course of their ee-cummingish meandering 
they emphasize jonquils, greasy hair,

---------------------------------------------------

March 20.1979-TARTAN-Page 25
'Deer Hunter' more a documentary than movie
by Russ Militello
To criticize The Deerhunter would be like 
criticizing America itself during the Viet
nam years, and that is a responsibility 
which I do not particularly want to under
take. I am not knowledgeable or qualified 
enough to make judgement. Thus, I can 
not really say whether this film is good or 
bad in the traditional sense. It is not 
really a movie like we are used to seeing 
in the theatre. It is more like a documen
tary. And since documentaries are depic
tions of real life, they are not prone to 
typical movie criticisms.
All that I mean is that it is just too 
real to be looked at as a mere movie 
like the others. It is reminiscent of the 
recent prison special Scared Straight, 
where kids were brought to a maximum.
security prison to see what life is like on 
the inside. However, instead of kids, the 
outsiders are adults, and, instead of prison, 
it is Vietnam. The point is quite clear, to 
put it delicately. But, there is some confu
sion also. What exactly is the film trying to 
say? Is it, through its precise and calculated 
editing, trying to warn us not to let it hap
pen again? Im not really sure. The Viet
nam War was brought into our living 
rooms, via the evening news, every night 
for almost ten years. Shouldnt we have 
developed a callous immunity to it all? To 
.not let it get to us? Personally, I think about it quite often. It could happen again, 
and since Im male and young and healthy, 
it makes me nervous sometimes.
Maybe Im making too much out of it.
Maybe. It could be a story about the basic 
mill worker in Clairton. Maybe Vietnam 
wasnt meant to be that important. After 
all, it didnt enter the movie until it was 
one hour underway. And, its not like 
there was all that much violence-no more 
than fifteen minutes or so out of a* three 
hour total.
So why does The Deerhunter affect peo
ple the way it does? Well, to put it honest
ly, its good. Whatever its intention, how
ever one looks at it, it is a quality piece of 
film. The performances (by Robert DeNiro, Christopher Walken, John Savage, 
John Cazale, and Meryl Streep, as well as 
the others) were--I hate to be trite-real. 
Real People! Real in the sense that the 
characters are average Americans; blue 
collar workers, laborers. Not spies or
robots or aliens, or angels. Human Beings! 
It is also real in the sense that ( I realize 
that this is the goal of acting so please 
dont think Im stupid) one forgets those 
are actors up there on the screen.
Im really glad that I know this is a 
movie and not a documentary (be
cause I know that Christopher Walken 
is alive and well and living in New York)
I dont want this film to be too real to me. 
It is terrifying, atrocious and searing. And, 
even though I know that it was shot in 
Thailand and not Vietnam, and that the 
blood used wasnt actually human blood, I 
also know that the wounded shown in the 
hospitals were really casualties, and that 
the Vietnam War did exist...Like I said, I 
cant criticize this movie.1
John Landis speaks about 'Animal House'
Over 500 films and essays from across the 
country were received for FOCUS 79. This 
is the largest number of entries in the his
tory of FOCUS, which has been sponsored 
for the past three years by Nissan Motor 
Corporation. First place winners in the 
Filmmaking and Film Study categories will 
each receive a Datsun 310 in addition to 
scholarships. The film department of first 
place winners will also receive Datsun 
Trucks.
wm
by Guy D. Garcia
John Landis is an all-American success 
story if ever there was one. When he was a 
young lad of eight years he saw The Sev
enth Voyage of Sinbad and decided he 
wanted to make movies. Thirteen years 
later, after doing time as a mail boy at 20th 
Century-Fox and taking a string of film 
production jobs in Europe, Landis wrote 
and directed his first movie, Schlock. ConThe Fever is Spreading
...Catch it
ceived as a spoof of monster movies in gen
eral.
The success of Schlock let to The Ken
tucky Fried Movie, which Landis worked 
on in collaboration with the LA-based 
Kentucky Fried Theater. Kentucky Fried 
Movie, which was fimed in 21 hectic days, 
made Landis a rich man and set the stage 
for a meeting with Marty Simmons and 
Ivan Reitman, the producers of Animal 
House.
The high level of enthusiasm that 
Landis normally exuded doubles when he 
talks about Animal House. When he uses 
words like great and excellent he puts 
his whole body behind them, jumping out 
of his chair and nearly shouting. He uses 
those words to describe, the cast, the writers 
and the whole film in general. Even though 
promotion makes him feel like a jerk he 
will do anything to get people to come 
and see it. Landis has a way of stressing 
certain words with a passion that is utterly 
convincing.
How active were the Lampoon writers 
on the set?
The idea for the film was a develop
ment deal; which means that Universal and 
the National Lampoon agreed to make a
Ramis, Doug Kenney and Chris Miller - 
pursued a script and I happen to know that 
the original idea was to do Charles Manson 
in high school. They all ended up rem
iniscing about their own experiences at 
college - they had all been in fraternities in 
1962 - and came up with a script which 
was offered to me. There were certain 
things in it that I didnt like, that I wanted 
to be changed, but it was clearly a great 
script. I mean these gflys are terrific.
After making some minor changes in 
the script, Landis liked the writers so much 
that he invited them to come and watch 
the shooting. At first there was a money 
problem but Landis solved that by putting 
them in the film.
What kind of things did he change in the 
script?
Just the tone. I think that we were 
very successful in making the Deltas ex
tremely sympathetic.
The entries in tne Film Study category are 
judged by distinguished film critics Roger 
Egert, Molly Haskell, Arthur Knight, Gene 
Siskel, and Bruck Williamson. First place 
winner in the Film Study category will al
so receive a 4-week internship at Playboy 
Magazine editorial headquarters in ChiAT 2 HOT A.B. EVENTS!
WITH PLENTY OF
LIGHTS:SHOWINGS IN DH 2210 
6, 8, 10, 12 $1.00 w/ID
CAMERA: FRIDAY, APRIL 6
THE DISCO.
ACTION: 9:00 FREE w/ID
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE
DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY 
UPB presents
PHOEBE SNOW
AND HER BANDFRIDAY, APRIL 6  8:00 pm
SPECIAL STUDENT CELEBRATION
TICKETS $5.50 REGULAR PRICE
$4.50 WITH STUDENT I.D.
DUQUENSE UNIVERSITY BALLROOM
Tlckots on m(# at tho Duquosno University Union info Con tor, Pitt Studont 
Union, Robort Morris Studont Union (Moon Township) and National Roeord Marts. 
IN ASSOCIATION WITH DICESARE-ENGLER PRODUCTIONS. INC.
2.SO "MORE PIZZA " is GETTING A NEW ADDITION
JUST FOR YOU!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26-TARTAN-March 20, 1979
LESLIE DRESBOLD LESLIE DRESBOLD ' LESLIE DRESBOLD
He have moved our Oakland Store to...
3613 
 Forbes Are. *
(the former Strand Theatre)
Come VisitLESLIE DRESBOLD
for the best in 
, TYPEWRITERS '*-= 
CALCULATORS 
REPAIRS 
RENTALS te: 
; OFFICE AND BOOKKEEPING SUPPLIES^ -
OTHER LOCATIONS: NORTH HILLS, SHARPSBURGH 
MONROEVILLE MALL, SOUTH HILLS VILLAGE, AND 
DOWNTOWN AT FORT PITT TYPEWRITERS.
'fa FREE PARKING AT AUTHORITY GARAGE
681-0990 or 681-6637
Ramones' 'Blitzkrieg Rock' is disappointing at Decade
The Best Selection of Clogs
forZtSS""" Women and Men nmJTSIiSi
WOW OPEN
This is the bands second album. Their 
first, Stillwater, was a suprisingly successful 
debut album which probably stems from 
the fact that they are not just an ordinary 
southern band. The seven menbers of the 
band bring a number of different in
fluences to the groups musical style. While 
most of the songs sound like a combination 
of the Allman Brothers and Boston, there 
is also funk style songs and even the mand
atory slow southern blues ballad. Most of 
the songs are structured around dual guitar 
leads and powerful rythym tracks. Instead 
of a straight blues guitar style the band has 
produced a full layered sound that has led 
to many comparisons with Boston and 
similar groups.
The lyrics on most of the songs are not 
very deep or meaningful. Fortunately the 
lyrics, most of which were penned by the 
band and Buddy Blue (who has also pro
duced and wrote for the Atlanta Rythym 
Section) fit the bands musical style. On 
many of the songs the lyrics seem to be 
used more for their sound rather than for 
their meanings. Many of the songs do ex
press the groups independent views. The 
title track especially illustrates their phil
osophy.
Ain't no revolutionary
I don t like being told what to do
by Alan Spero
Blitzkrieg rock is a term frequently 
applied to the Ramoness live concerts. 
Pounding drums, screeching vocals, over
distorted guitars, all brought to maximum 
volume, have been a trademark of their 
shows. Well, all this plus a tremendous 
amount of energy emitted from the band 
were present at their Decade concert, 
Tuesday night, March 6, yet the show still 
ended up being slightly disappointing and 
very exhausting.
The Ramones opened their set with one 
of their singles from Rocket to Russia 
Rockaway Beach. From then on, 
they rocked from one song right into another, hardly stopping for a breath during 
their hour and fifteen minute show. Their 
sound was raw and deafening, which made 
distinguishing one song from another al
most impossible for a person not familiar
with the Ramoness material. Still, the show 
had a driving energy that carried the aud
ience along from one two-chord anthem to 
the next. They touched on almost all of 
the material from their last two albums and 
quite a few songs from their first two. 
Teenage Lobotomy, Sheena Is A Punk 
Rocker, and Cretin Hop were the highlights 
of the set, but they were overshadowed by 
the disappointing renditions of Needles 
And Pins, Surfin Bird, and I Just Want To 
Have Something To Do.
The main disappointment was Johnny 
Ramone. His lifeless face matched his 
style - two power chords per song. None of 
the solos, riffs, or catchy melody lines pre
sent on many of the tracks off the fourth 
album were in evidence, and I wonder if he 
really did do them on the record or if 
someone else filled them in.
Joey Ramone leered and shook before 
the rowdy crowd, clutching his microStillwater isn't ordinary
phone in a vise-like grip. His voice sounded 
as adequate as it does on record, but the 
lyrics suffered from the poor sound sys
tem. Dee Dee, on bass, was definitely the 
lead punk. Posing, jumping, and calling off 
the inevitable 1-2-3-4 before every song, 
Dee Dee dominated the stage and displayed 
a style of bass playing that is basic to the 
Ramoness hard-hitting sound.
I dont know why I was expecting more 
of the Ramones. Maybe its because of all 
the press theyve been getting lately. May
be its because theyve released four al
bums. Perhaps its because the fourth 
album contains subtle melodies and nicely 
overdubbed acoustic and electric leads.
What ever the reason, the Ramones didnt 
quite deliver all I had been expecting from 
them Tuesday night.
A lot of the blame for the loss of 
joyment during the course of the show was 
due to the conditions the Decade allowed 
for this concert. The place was packed so 
tight that most people were forced against, 
the wall or each other. There were no aisles 
to walk through, all the seats were reserved 
so everyone had to stand, and broken beer 
bottles littered the floor. Everyone was so 
squashed together, a person literally could 
not bend down to tie his own shoe. Why 
the management allowed so many people 
into such a small room is beyond normal 
comprehension and common sense. (At the 
Fabulous Poodles concert the following
Sunday, there was plenty of room to move 
around and the seats were open at the be
ginning of the evening.) The other factor 
that detracted from the Ramones powerpacked show, was an unbelievably, overlong 
opening set by a local band, Eddie and the 
Otters, who were yelled off the stage after 
playing over an hour of copy material. 
They may be a list enable band under other 
circumstances, but that night they were 
neither needed nor wanted.
A leering Joey Ramone lunges at the crowd while in the backround, guitarist Johnny Ramone concentrates on playing the next chord.
by Ted Smits
In the last few years a number of rock 
bands have came out of the southeastern 
United States. Their music is usually styled 
after the blues based rock of the Allman 
Brothers band or the country rock sound 
of the Charlie Daniels Band. These bands 
usually feature . three or more guitarists, 
plenty of drums and keyboards along with 
lyrics detailing their southern lifestyle. 
Stillwater, a seven man band from Georgia, 
at first glance seems to follow this same 
pattern, but Stillwater has enough talent 
and diverse musical influences to place 
themselves above the average southern rock 
band. Their talent and diversity is clearly 
shown on their new album I Reserve the 
Right.
I reckon you can say Im stubborn 
All my life I been an independent man 
I don't like being governed 
Sorry bout that Governer 
The groups independent views on music 
as well as life have certainly helped. They 
first started on the southern bar circuit 
where they caught the ear of Macon, 
Georgias Capricorn Records. When they 
signed with Capricorn they joined a long 
list of southern bands, but Stillwater has 
tried to keep their individuality and for the 
most part they have succeeded. Some of 
the songs, Kalifornia Kool, Women (beaut
iful women), suffer from a lack of musical 
focus. The different styles and influences 
make these songs sound rather fragmented 
onri irv^co u/Vior. +v.0 has everything
together, like on the title track they sound 
very good. A hard rocking song with some 
excellent guitar work, I reserve the Right 
shows the potential of the group. Fair 
Warning and Keeping Myself Alive are also 
very good. Both contain nice interplays of 
high quality guitar work with solid (almost 
funk-like) rythym backing.
The album contains a certain amount of 
low quality material but if the band can 
focus their style and tighten up their sound 
they should produce some good material. 
If it sounds like the kind of music you 
would want to hear I would recommend 
you check them out. they deserve a right 
to be heard.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
FBI is DAZZIed 41-37
On Thursday night, March 15, the two 
playoff finalists DAZZ and FBI were slat
ed for the intermediate I.M. basketball 
championships. FBI was the favorite by a 
few points while DAZZ, a Cinderella team, 
had barely defeated a level-A team to 
which the team had previously suffered its 
only loss.
In the earlier periods of the game the 
two teams performances were evenly 
matched as the score remained primarily 
tied up until halftime. The end of the half 
saw the teams come out with a thirst for 
victory. FBI took a slight edge over DAZZ
who suffered a series of turnovers and 
questionable foul calls. With the assistance 
of junior guard Tyrone Austin, FBI pulled 
out in front. DAZZ answered with out
standing' play to come within two points 
three-fourths of the way through the four
th quarter. DAZZ went on to tie the game 
2828 by the end of regular game play, 
and the two teams went into three minute 
overtime.
DAZZ carried the edge this time with a 
series of successful offensive plays and 
zone defenses. Two foul shots by DAZZs 
Raymond Wiley helped wrap the game up 
for DAZZ, 41-37.
Rugby open to interested
Robert J. Lasser, Treasurer for the Pitt
sburgh Rugby Club, would like to inform 
the campus community that the Pittsburgh 
Rugby Club is looking for new members. 
The club is open to anyone interested in 
playing or just learning about rugby. They 
are currently practicing at the Schenley 
Oval Field, adjacent to the tennis courts, 
on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:30 PM 
until dark. The team is primarily composed 
of people who were active in high school 
and college athletics and are still interested 
in competing on an amateur basis.
Two tournaments are scheduled for this 
spring: The Mid-America Cup at Miami, 
Ohio, and the Schaefer Cup at Bethlehem, 
Pennsylvania. The Pittsburgh Rugby Club 
plays both college teams (California State, 
Ohio State, Youngstown, Penn State, Kent 
State) as well as other club teams.
Anyone desiring additional information 
should contact Club President Steve Morelle at 562-9480 or Kevin Gordan, at 734- 
2171. The club also urges the public to 
stop at a practice session to see, firsthand, 
vvhat rugby is all about.
IM BB ends with GSIA and DEVILS as champs
by I.M. Houpes
On Friday, March 16th, the intramural 
majors champions were decided at Skibo 
gym. Richard Rine and Gene Steratore 
were referees for the contest which began 
at 7:00 PM. In a hotly contested ball game, 
the Big Bucks, comprised of GSIA, 
defeated the Blue Bombers by the score of 
51-43. However, the game was much clos
er than the score indicates. The enthusias
tic crowd was treated to a wild n wooly 
display of I.M. basketball at its best.
At the games start, it seemed as though 
the Blue Bombers were grossly outmatched 
against the taller and more experienced Big 
Bucks. Turnovers hurt the Blue Bombers 
early in the game as V. Whitelock, the Big 
Bucks point guard, got things rolling for 
GSIA with 3 steals which led to 6 unan
swered points. However, the momentum 
quickly shifted in favor of the Blue Bomb
ers as floor general and leading scorer, 
Rocco Cersosimo, connected on three un
answered baskets to tie the game at 10. 
Sloppy play on both sides at the end of the 
first period resulted in a 1212 deadlock.
J. Ward broke the ice in the second per
iod with a bomb from the corner, and with 
2:41 remaining in the half, the Big Bucks 
led 2018. The tide again shifted as poor 
free throw shooting by the Big Bucks, and 
a three point play by the Blue Bombers 
aggressive big man, Joe Gold camp, tied the 
game at 21. The action inspired great de
fensive play on the part of the Blue Bomb
ers. GSIA got careless again and the Blue 
Bombers forged ahead at the half, 26-23.
The third period saw the Big Bucks, on 
two key field goals by Grossman, take a 
one point lead. The two teams exchanged 
buckets for seven minutes and the period 
ended with GSIA on top, 37-36. The Blue 
Bombers, led by Cersosimo and Loughran, 
came out on fire for the start of the 4th 
period. They put pressure on Whitelock 
and Ward which caused two turnovers.
MAJORS ALL STARS
Tarheels
55th & Halstead: Joe McGreal.
SAE-A: Terry Hanna, Dave Radack, A1 
Fountain.
Blue Bombers: Rocky Cersosimo, Joe 
Goldcamp, Jim Lout.
SMD: Ralph David, Ken Gustafson.
Toast and Jam: Charlie McCarthy, Winston 
Thomas.
Losers: Pete Recchia.
Unbelievable: Tony McElroy, Ben Meachem, Tony Watson.
Coach: Joe Belechak.
Blue Devils
Beta-A: Greg Samsa, Butch Dillen, Boh 
McNail
Big Bucks: John Ward, Carl Forresteri, 
Irwin Grossman 
PIKA-A: John Tucci.
However, the Bombers could not capitalize. 
GSIA called time-out with the score, 40 
38, in their favor. The crowd displayed 
their disfavor when the Big Bucks returned 
to the floor with a delay game. 
Their strategy worked as the Blue Bombers 
were forced to spread themselves thin in 
what proved to be the major turning point 
of the contest. Ward and Whitelock com
bined to ice the victory for the Big Bucks, 
51-43.
Rocco Cersosimo led all scorers with 16 
points followed by Ward and Whitelock 
with 12. J. Loughran of the Blue Bombers 
finished with 10 points and 8 points each 
were pumped in by Hammerly and Gross
man.
The ALL-STAR game at 8:30 PM fol
lowed the championship game with plenty 
of action. Buddy Hobart coached the Blue 
Devils division while Joe Belechak control
led the Tarheels division. The game proved 
to be a run n gun forum for the leagues 
top shooters. John Tucci of PIKA played 
an outstanding game, as he led all scorers 
with 25 points. ALLSTAR teammate 
Ken Gerzsenyi and SAE representative 
Terry Hanna finished with 12 points. The 
high scoring affair was just what an ALLSTAR game should be. Players were shut
tled in and out of the game to allow equal 
playing time and the coaches encouraged a 
running offense and man-to-man defense.
The Blue Devils controlled the game 
throughou most of the first and second 
halves, but the Tarheels, bolstered by 
Hannas 12 points and Ralph Davids 10 
points, made an exciting comeback. With 
eight seconds remaining to be played, the 
Tarheels were down by two points. A full 
court press resulted in a foul. ATOs Per, ry Colosimo was sent to the line in a 1 on 1 
situation and hit both ends to secure the 
victory for Buddy Hobarts Blue Devils, 
63-59.
Frosh: Tom Frostein, Bill Humphrey. 
A TO-A: Perry Colosimo.
Fish: Mike Gurskey, Dave Fawcett, Rich
ard Kubinsky 
PKT-A: Ken Gerzsenyi.
Coach: Buddy Hobart.
Photo by Robert Si

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28-TARTAN-March 20, 1979IM NEWS center
Intramurals This Week:
Handball: Please return scores for games 
played to the IM office.
Table Tennis: Singles and doubles report 
scores for games played to commissioner 
Jeff McCarthey, DU.
Chess: 1978-79 champions 
Chess: 1978-79 champions are Kappa Sig
ma.
Individual call pool: Its not too late to
sign up for play. Contact commissioner 
Doug Wilson, Kappa Sigma.
Co-rec Badminton: Commissioner is Pierre 
Laughton, extension 4236.
Fencing: Interested parties should see Miss 
Fisk, entry due March 22.
Archery: Contact Miss Fisk, entry due 
March 22, shoot on Wednesday, April 3. 
Basketball Foul Shooting: Team or indiv
idual shoot on March 19 and March 20.
Shoot 50 shots on Monday, 4:30 to 6:00 
PM and 50 shots on Tuesday, same time. 
Commissioner is Bob McCall, ZBT.
Swimming: Must post entry; team or indiv
idual. There will be a swim meet on Wed., 
March 21. Commissioner is Harry Coleman, 
ext. 4351.
Water Basketball: It is not too late to enter 
a team. You can pick up entry forms in
Beer doesnt 
come near
Mickeys Malt Liquor
HEMEAN CREEN
c 1978 G HEILEMAN BREWING CO INC LA CROSSE WISCONSIN AND OTHER CITIES
ENGINEERS
This is a pitchLet's be candid 
we're looking 
for talent.
At Magnavox Government & 
Industrial Electronics Co., we 
want to hire the best engineers 
and computer scientists we can 
find. If you qualify, and youre 
interested in a career with the 
worlds leader in communica
tion sytems, Magnavox may be 
for you.
Thats because, in our business, an outstanding technical staff is the key to 
success. Magnavox has been remarkably successful because we offer small 
company atmosphere with large company benefits and challenge!
Hence the pitch, and this ad. If you like what you see here, get in touch. Maybe 
both of us will be glad you did.
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS:
Monday, April 2,1979
Please contact your Placement Office or send your resume to: 
PROFESSIONAL PLACEMENT
M
Advanced Products Division
(Magnavox Research Laboratories)
2829 Maricopa St. Torrance, CA 90603
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
Room 104 in the gym. Commissioner is 
Brian Hobbs.
IM Roundup
Touch Football Campus Champs:
Majors: PKA 
Intermediate: KS
Minors: OFF WITH THEIR HANDS 
Womens: KKG 
MYP: Ralph Peters of PKA 
Tennis: Campus champs are PKT.
Cross Country: Campus Champs are Bas
ketball A. 1st Place: Gregg Keyes; 2nd 
Place: John Zuilhof; 3rd Place: Dave Rey
nolds; Womens champ: Kim Aimes.
Co-rec Volleyball: Campus champs are: 
Majors: Coaches All-Stars; Minors: 2 and 
3-B.
Water Polo: Campus champs are SAE. 
Soccer: Champs: Majors: Dkers Angels;
Minors: Macks;MVP: Alan Mclver. 
Volleyball: Champs: Majors: Coaches AllStars; Inter.: DU; Minors: MoFos; Wom
ens: Chi-0 and Co.; MVP: Dirk Kalp of 
Coaches All-Stars.
Team Table Tennis: Campus Champs: Zoo. 
Three-Person Volleyball: Champs: Majors: 
Dixons All-Stars; Inter.: TX; Minors: 
DTD
Racquetball: Campus champs: Old People. 
Wrestling: Champs: KS.
Basketball: Champs: Majors: Big Bucks; 
Inter.: Dazz; Minors: Bell Boys.
Bowling: Campus Champs are TX.
1.M. Swimming Meet: Wed., March 21st, 
7:00 PM in the pool. Everyone is welcome. 
LIST OF EVENTS:
1.200 Yard Medley Relay
2. 50 Yard Freestyle
3. 100 Yard Individual Medley
4. 50 Yard Butterfly
5. 100 Yard Freestyle
6. 50 Yard Backstroke
7. 50 Yard Breaststroke
8.200 Yard Freestyle
9.200 Yard Freestyle Relay
THERE J A 
DIFFERENCE!
fVv
a#
-H.N
fSBBMT EDUCATIONAL 
CENTER
ESSEX HOUSE 112 
Corner of Negley & Centre 
Pittsburgh 15206
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Visit Our Centers 
And See For Yourself 
Why We Make The Difference
Call Days, Eves & Weekends
661-2772
3.
THE NEW 9INCHER STARTS SUN., APRIL 1st
CHEESE 1.55 PEPPERONI 1.75 MUSHROOMS 1.90 
THE WORKS' 2.15
Dew m Sm

---------------------------------------------------

March 20. 1979-TARTAN-Page 29
like this
Cutlass
National Car Rental
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS.CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
682-W55
National Car ^3^1#
^erva,ion*7T ole is n"^ect to ovalob.*V
arific cars 5 We offwr s ft H Green
Stamp certificates on |iOy( I 
rentals in all 50 U.S. states. |
cno' y~ , 19 eacn
notice Spe< 
today
rch2crr02ch h0,19,ar7
Research Assistantships are available at both the 
Master's and Doctoral levels in the following ar
eas:STRUCTURES ENERGY
MECHANICS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
MATERIALS OTHERS
Benefits: Responsibilities:
 Free Tuition  Research Assistance
 Stipend Half time (20 hrs./week)
 Challenging  Academic Performance
(3.0 GPA or better)
Inquire about this excellent opportunity by writing 
or callingDR. GERRY ALBERS
University of Dayton 
300 College Park Avenue Dayton, Ohio 45469 
(513) 229-2241
Pregnant? And you didn't 
mean to be? For a free 
pregnacy test and con
fidential, understanding 
support, call Birthright.
621-1988
^ ^ j* i ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ X ^ ^ ^ X X* ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ X xlx 1* vL* 1^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ v v v r* TA v
A SPECIAL BREED
What does it take to be a Marine officer? It takes 
strength, agility, coordination, endurance, intelli
gence, moral and physical courage. It takes a desire, 
determination and grit. Above all, it takes the ability 
lead other Marines under conditions of extreme 
stress. In short, it takes a special breed of man. If 
you have what it takes, we ll bring out the best in 
you. Contact the Placement Office or see the Officer 
Selection Team in Warner Hall March 20 and 21.
For more information call (412} 644-5819.
THE FEW. THE PROUD. THE MARINES.
************************-******************JL
CITY_________ . STATE___________ZIP
ATTENTION VETERANS
Your previous active duty service, combined with 
enrolling in Air Force ROTC, may lead to your becoming 
an Air Force officer. When you graduate from college, 
you could receive an Air Force Commission with the op
portunity for an exciting an d challenging position as a 
scientist...engineer...pilot...navigator...missile launch of
ficer, just to name a few of the over 200 career fields in 
the Air Force. Your previous service may serve as a total 
credit for the first two years of the Four-Year AFROTC 
Program. In other words , the Professor of Aerospace 
Studies on campus has the authority to grant credit for 
all or portions of the first two years of Air Force ROTC 
for your previous active duty. Make the time and work 
you already invested in the service pay off and contact:
CAPT. BEV SANFORD
Tel: 624-6398
29th Floor, Cathedral of Learning University of Pittsburgh
Please send me the Stanford University 1979 Summer 
Session Bulletin. 84
NAME
A spectrum of introductory 
and advanced courses, work
shops, and seminars in the 
arts, earth sciences, educa
tion, engineering, the human
ities, social sciences, and 
sciences and mathematics. 
Summer session runs June 25 
to August 18.
All students in good stand
ing are invited to attend. For 
a course bulletin and applica
tion form, mail the coupon 
below to Stanford Summer 
Session, Building 1, Stanford 
University, Stanford,
California 94305.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 30-TARTAN-March 20, 1979
g:#
Icelandic^
Big Bargain to Europe 
Just Got Bigger.
Introducing Wide-Body DC-10 Service to the Heart of Europe.*299 Roundtrip.
And our great 
bargain price is still 
the same as before. 
Just $299 roundtrip 
from New York to Lux
embourg, $149.50 one 
way. Price includes an 
excellent dinner, free wine 
and cognac. No restrictions. 
Tickets can be purchased 
anywhere in the U.S.A. and 
are good for a 
full year. DC-10 
flights leave and 
return five times 
weekly.
Prices are 
subject to change 
after May 14,1979. Add 
$12.50 surcharge each way on 
travel between April 5 and 
April 27.
For more information see your travel agent. Or write Dept. 
1 # Icelandic Airlines, P.O. Box 105, West Hempstead, NY
11552. In New York City, call 757-8585 or call toO free in New 
York State (800) 442-5910; elsewhere, (800) 223-5080.
I NAME__________________________________________
ADDRESS.
I CITY_
I
STATE
ICELANDICfmr.ILANOAIR I
The story of a woman with the courage to risk every t/ung 
for what she believes is right.
a MARTIN RITT ROSE; AND ASSEYEV production "NORMA RAH"
SALLY FIELD RON LEIBMAN BEAU BRIDGES 
PAT MINGLE BARBARA BAXLEY 
screenplay bv IRVING RAVETCH and HARRIET FRANK, JR 
music DAVID SHIRE 
director of photography JOHN A ALONZO, A S C 
produced bv TAMARA ASSEYEV and ALEX ROSE 
directed bv MARTIN RITT 
"IT GOES LIKE IT GOES" lyrics by NORMAN GIMBEL 
music bv DAVID SHIRE COLOR BV DeLUXE*
PGPARtNTAl GUIMNCf SUGGtSTEO MfKWinmi. HM'm Vo,22l Cbl
SOME MATfftiAL MAT *OT M SuttAAif fQ* CMUMCMt < .q ;oTm Cl ~ T B
Now Ploying At A Theatre Near You
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
Viewers travel to 'Another World' for 30 more minutes
by Simon Burke
Last week, daytime television marked 
another milestone when Another World ex
panded to 90 minutes.
The network made the move out of a 
purely business motive: ratings were sag
ging on the high-profit afternoon time slot, 
and expanding soaps from 30 to 60 min
utes had been successful, so expanding a 
soap from 60 to 90 minutes should be 
equally successful.
Proctor and Gamble Productions, the 
producers of Another World already had 
actors under contract from the now def
unct For Richer or Poorer serial, as well as 
studio space, and could utilize these res
ources for an expanded version of Another 
World.
Critics, however, question the intelli
gence of the move. Producing an hour soap 
every day became draining on cast and 
crew alike, and another 30 minutes would 
only add to the strain. There is a limit to 
the types of situations any one character 
can be in, and soon the series would be
come repetitive, as characters would relive 
old adventures. And the series would have 
to move at an alarming rate since few peo
ple are willing to sit and watch nothing oc
cur for 90 minutes. Melodramatic develop
ments, rather than character developments, 
would take precedence.
Critics expected a sloppy production, 
with simple blocking, and little movement, 
as actors have little time to rehearse their 
parts. For a similar reason, critics expected 
actors to forget their lines easily.
So what happened? Sure enough, the 90 
minute version of Another World was In
troduced with a melodramatic event - the 
resident bitch trying to murder the resident 
heroine, and sure enough that was resolved 
quickly. In an effort to sustain interest in 
the show, the villainess escaped the scene, 
and now a trap is being set to catch her. 
Obviously, each event will have to have 
each last detail milked out of it to last lon
ger.
Surprisingly, however, the show isnt 
sloppy at all in other respects. The writing 
is as strong as everpredictable yet reason
able, the dialogue formal but not overly 
sentimental. The actors have sustained a 
high level of energy throughout the first 
week. The scenes look as neat as ever, 
and simple blocking, but no additional use 
of chairs to make things easy.
In fact, the series has gained a more cin
ematic quality. Characters are given oppor
tunities now to display more personality, 
as, for example, a group of characters were 
shown doing an Irish jig, while another was 
shown admiring clothes. The arson story 
line is being treated as a case for a TV cop, 
rather than a melodrama of the young her
oine being threatened by the villain. An
other story on a possible child-snatching 
case is being treated with extreme realism,
and without much hokiness.
All in all, it looks as if this expanded 
Another World may succeed both as a pro
duction, and judging from the story, as a 
ratings device.
With this soap opera gaining attention, 
it might be useful to look at the best and 
the worst of the soaps, to judge how An
other World figures in the field.
THE TOP FIVE
Days of Our Lives (NBC). The most daring 
of the soaps, this socially relevant drama 
has dealt with everything from homosex
uality to artificial insemination. It was one 
of the first soaps to deal with rape, inter
racial romance, incest and wife-beating. It 
was also one of the first serials to utilize 
comedy as a regular dramatic device, and 
recently finished up a two and a half year 
long comedy romance that was coupled 
with some of the most tongue-in-cheek 
melodrama ever on the air.
The Young and the Restless (CBS). Created 
by former Days headwriter William J. Bell, 
this series has dared where no other drama 
ever has, with younger characters, more 
beautiful faces, lower necklines and shorter 
hemlines. The producer is quoted as saying, 
We go for effect. The series deals with 
the dreams and desires, the haunts and 
fears, of young, restless people. The series 
has dealt openly and candidly with frigid
ity, rape, incest, euthanasia and alcoholism. 
However, the most notable story line was 
one of a fragile pianist imprisoned in a 
mental institution, and the horrors she ex
perienced there. The series also comes clos
est to fine drama, with heavy emphasis on 
symbolism and character.
ALSO:
All My Children (ABC). Traditional-type
characters with social consciences.
Another World (NBC). Mate-swapping f0r 
90 minutes a day.
Ryans Hope (ABC). A Kennedy-type fam. 
ily fighting tenements, illegitimacy, child, 
like women, and inter religious romance in 
New York.
THE TWO WORST
One Life to Live (ABC). Raunchy, tacky, 
and smut are three words to describe a dra
ma which was once praised for its excel
lence. Originally a series about a group of 
ethnically diverse characters facing front
page problems, the series has regressed to 
a story about horny WASP types trying to 
get their fill in a good, old-fashioned Amer
ican town. The only resourcefulness shown 
on the series is by actress (and CMU grad
uate) Judith Light as nymphomaniac Karen 
Wolek.
general Hospital (ABC). Another good rea
son to change the channel. The series 
abounds in more melodrama than a Victor
ian novel, and does it with more bad taste. 
The story consists of old soap opera story 
lines brought together for one last reunion, 
and has few new twists added. The whole 
thing seems boring the second time around. 
If you want to see the stereotype soap op
era, this is the one.

---------------------------------------------------

FREE CLASSIFIEDS, FREE CLASSIFIEDS
jlMBO, Get her a bird! Former Almost Room
mates
pear Counselor, She says he has my nose. Why
me? Only oncel
Of HANDS, You lucky bastardJake
| EL Howie, Kim, The DANCE was fun anyway!
The White One
BRONX, What tri-delt formal? same JAG
DOC OLIVER, I love Calc 1(^ A Calc II Student 
BABE, Lehigh sucks! I love you
Le Pue, I don't hate you! Love Pepe
FLY, Stay out of El's shit, you Jitbag! T.E.K.ies
FLY, Eustoo put impotence pills in the milk.
Lucky you T.E.K.ies
Dear Du  Will you still love us if the rabbit
dies? Love Kappa
Hey Lou  What was that you said about no
snow?
Do you believe in the Easter Bunny? The DU's
and Xoppes believe.
The Easter Bunny is coming!
Vasectomies are cheaper than children ...
The Sperm Count
To our Chief, Happy Belated Birthday!
Love and Sloppy Wet Kisses, Woodstock and
Captain L.
j David, Roses are red. Violets are blue. David,
you're sweet and I love you. Judy.
| Shadyside, Oakland apartments! Regularly
available, all prices. Students wanted! Ser
vices, Inc. 2421495.
| Nancy, Why the %$*& did we make this bet
anyway?
Tina, Do it till it hertz Lady Essence! MID14
[Vernon, Put on your glasses!! We still love
you  M.J. & J.I
Mark K.  Thanks for the candy  it was
j really sweet!! Janet
Second Floor: No more Bert-Abuse Third Floor
To my favorite actuary  Congratulations!!
I (To the Big Apple: WATCH OUT!!)
JH...Stavinsky?
[The six foot rabbit wants you to CARE!
Floppsy and Mopsy, Would you believe I couldn't think of a complaint to write here?
Quick Cash!! Only 15 mins. Story and Design reaction study. M Clark 361-29% or 578-2785.
1975 FIAT 128 sport coupe one owner 21,000 mi. AM/FM Radials, fr. wheel dr. 683-2535.
FloridaHere we come the Party Animate  Tom, Todd, Rick and Hal
AJS: Thanks for being so sweet and such a great friend! I'm gonna miss ya! J
Mary Jo Weber holds the highest rank in the Piss Ant Colony, She is the Queen!!
Hi sexy  Maquina de lavar  Me
MitchOops! there goes another year of experience. Happy Birthday! Love, Crash, Bang and Boom
Bernard, Eat my shorts. The Dungeon.
Dear Mike, Mark, Fred, Brad, Joe, Gibb,Steve, Shawn, Ed, Larry, Bert, Vince: HI GUYS!!
Dear Mitch, Happy Number 18! Love, Anne, Leslie and Luann (in alphabetical order)
Male woofer with big tweeter desires 350 voltreceiver.
To all those poor volkswagens out there, he'll get 
you a bird!
Thanx Howie!
Fly, Vicky says it's twins and the poor devils
look like you. TEKies
Send $3 to S.P.M., Box 890, Dormer Hall.
M.J. and Tracey, Good luck in the real world. 
You can do it! Love, Pam
DJJ-I thoroughly enjoyed youlet's be friends 
Remember, once is not... DJE
Dear Skip, Tom, Lyndon and Jeff, Thanks for
everything. Love from all your Kappa sisters.
Can a 5*2" chick find happiness in downtown
Pittsburgh with the 6' rabbit?
Did you ever see a nerd that looks exactly like 
Buddy Holly? G.V. Cacciani
P.T.Why do you wear those funny bras?
HsiehAfter you integrate x squared sin x, can I 
have an order of fried rice?
last time... No: that Vickie p/eerl
04 Worn rtt.
RNPATTH6 KJibHT
Look out Fence! Here comes LuAnn with a can of orange paint!!
Hey Rich! I hear that you can spread peanut butter on soft ice cream!
Hey B.l.Good luck with your-------. Some peopleprefer brains, but I for one care leas for them:..
RitaT.
To Paul Newman,Are you really him?
Does the "S" in GSIA have to be an "S"? Shouldn't it be a "$"?
Sublet apt.nice, large, 2 bdrms, carpet, air furnished for 3. Oakland Call 687-4133.
THIS ONES FOR: everyone wno  something here is written just for him. This is.
To Mrs. Kelly, The Greatest Boss in HuntHer Students
What kind of situation at Fine Arts would encourage financial support from alumni, government funding and Warner Hall, rather than increasing the number of students paying tuition and over-populating the class room?
Katrina,Love is being degenerate together. I love you.Wilde D. Beast
Happy Birthday (100th)Albert Einstein
I never met a PILAM i wouldn't chuck a watermelon out my window at.Danno
Mallory,
Brothers of PIKA
Mrs. RaymondThanks a lot, We love you.
HeyJust wait til I take Vonnie to Liberty Ave!"21 and spreading it.
Mai,Wherever you are, thanks for the birthday card. Hurry back, we miss you!Joann
Attention: Male employees CMU our health care package will not pay for a vasectomy.The Sperm Count!
To Grace:Watch your step.BB
Disco Queen: Going to the Smorg and remember when they put the lights up?
To the Fox: "WOW" The Zoo Keeper.
To the sisters DDD, Why can't you be normal?Lawrwrw
name is Bill and I love hockey.
The Brothers of Delta Tau Delta thank their
[tittle Sisters for another year's enthusiasm and 
friendship.
JClay, You're only dirt in Gasport since we've
|taken over.  "G and Ski Enterprises, INC."
Wanted: The first place trophy for best Christmas 
window to be given to A-6 Doherty.
For Sale! Onkyo 15 Watt Receiver, Perfect Cond
ition. $60.00 David, x 4239
Attention CMUKeep all your food on high
shelvesDustin is near!
Dear Donna, Well, your name finally made the 
Papers! Congratulations! Love, S.M.
CMUOon't bluma us for a mistake made 18
ears ago! with apologies, Dustin's Parents ..
81 * wr*P vibrating strings around the neck of a 
'tain Physics professor, just for fun.
**eH would anyone want to sex a toad?
Lonely bachelor with barbeque grill desires to meet young woman with bun warmer.
The Kid  Roses are red, Violets blue. Some guysare ugly  But you're dumb, too! E & S.
Live-in meiden desired for engineering graduate  New Hope, Pa. Bed, board provided. Apply DH 3105.
Scarp, How come Green never introduces us? 
NoToad-Sexing is allowed in the TARTAN.
Eugene Bartel. YOUR COURSE FLUX!!Junior Mech. E's.
What? Sex? -Girls at CMU.
Happy Birthday Tod! Sorry I'm not here tocelebrate, but wait 'til I get back  Mal
Happy Birthday Joann and Chuck (belated) Tod (again), Amy, Mike, Ken, Jay, David 
(Prof.) - Mal
Oh, Yangisel Beautiful River! ftiver full
Mr. Goodman  Your 1st Grade Math Primer has arrived.  CMU Bookstore
Mister Goodman: Please refrain from openingyour mouth in class. C.P. Newman
Lynda: When you're 80. he'll be 35.
I newer met a Pi Lam 1 wouldn't chuck a grapefruit out my window at. Boog
I DREAMED of being 500 pounds! S.M.
Dirk. To next year and David Bowie. Kave. S.D.C. Movies presents "Young Lust": 6:00, 
8:00, 10:00, and a special trenchcoat showing at 
rnidnight.
Love you Belle!
Free topping on any Pizza (When presented with
this Ad). Expires March 31. Antonino's, Oak
land.
I don't know. What do you do?
To Fish, You really do have strong hands! Keeping count, P.W.
Dear Mitch, Happy Birthday to a great guy. "What a hunk!"
To all junior EE. Does Mike G. really exist?
Dan the Man The Black 8i White of the issue is that its finally, all over. Greymatter.
Dr. Fiske: We love you!I!- Mike, Don, Paul. 
Barring Everything an Ultimate X-Travaganza
Gregg Ross. Thank You! Thank You! Thank you ! Thank You! Dan, John, Rob 8iQ.
David Lu Lu How meeny B'Lunes? Forgot my 
.moustache.
Fran. Po you have any marbles. A Mad Shooter.
Old GE'ersI wonder where the Morewood Piano
and the Fine Arts Sculpture went to. JP
For Everyone at the Pocusset HouseIt's been 
greatfThink Pull-kick! JP
Chivas Regal would like to thank Studio Two for 
serving enough of our product.
Jim and Doug:Thank you for your patronage gig
gles and shelly from the Cricket.
Hey man, someone took my dope, man. It was
soooo good, man. I'm pissed man. C.F.
I hate ethnic jokes! Them damn Ricans are Al
ways telling them!
Make quick money! Dial (211) 555-1212 for infor
mation. Sponsored by Bell Telephone.
GAY and BLADE, Two wild and crazy guys! 
Miss Innocent
To the Poly Boys, Confucius say: Stand up and 
fly "Straight" and buy new ihoehom!
A., Quit giving away tickets! Pm tired of deeping
in the lobby. Your Roommate

---------------------------------------------------

Page 32-TARTAN-March 20,1979
SOME MORE FREE CLASSIFIEDS
lighting Technicians, We want to the audience on. The Bored
you tum Janet: I think you're cut. Another Adn^
Dermont Atwood: Seen any Bunnies lately?
Dear Cast  26 days and counting. Get your act together.  The Producer
To Builder, It will get done even if you have touse us! The Bored
Dave, Midnight picnics in Science Hall can bebeautiful! Happy Birthday. All my Love, Luce
Cathy, Karen & JMP - The express has left SCE.
Mark, Suprise, Suprise, Suprise, Suprise, Su-prise, Suprise, Suprise, Surpise, Suprise, Suprise, Suprise,Suprise, Betty
To L You're as cold as Ice. C
To EMK  I love you always and forever, moretoday than yesterday. Love, Scott
Mo sucks gravy.
Ronni, I don't hate you! Honest! Luch 
Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! - Staying Alive, Staying Alive.
Hey Diners Club, may your salad dressingspoil and your Bacos turn rancid. Eat Squid!!
Reiko, Thanks for still being a friend. Your"Disco Buddy"
Smells like fish, but tastes like steak.
Dear Boss. Women are just as good. TheMoving Crew
Ugly, I am not Flat!!!
Emile Zola should be sentenced to death byslow torture (reading GERMINAL).
Jenny, I love your cigarettes and your accentbut youve got to sing louder. Hick
Yes! The votes are in! The all-time ultimatenerd is: ISAAC NEWTON I!
Hey, Hackers! Sit on a decwriter and rotate!
Sev is DEVO ( Are we not loads?)
To anyone going to New Jersey for SpringBreak - Please explain why!! x4243
Free classifieds may be fun for you, but they'rea pain for me! - TARTAN TYPESETTER
To A.J.L.  "But you're bound to lose if you let the blues make you scared to feel."  S.L.
Dear D.G., Keep practicing your imitation of anAnchorman!
To the girls in the Vegi Room Thanks for the bananas! The Dynamic Duo
Ed Williams was removed from DH2210 while watching "Snow White," because Grumpy was scaring him shitless.
For Sale  Albatross, no flavor, only one available. Price:3 pounds. x4530.
To Ma: Hi! from: Carolyn, Goldie, Miki, Lavenia, Diane, Iris, Malinda, Linda, Michelle, and Venecia
Next Panther Hollow Jumping Team meeting isMay 3, Finals Week. Don't Miss It!
To Erica K.  Hope you enjoyed my prankphone call as much as I did!
To Doris  My dog has no nose.  Sam
To Sam  How does he smell, then?  Doris
Only Dorks wear cowboy hats, cowboy boot, and dark glasses.
Sally J.  Welcome to the world of Chemistry
KKG: Scared? You should be.
John, Revel and company
Uncle W: When I said Damn it All, I included your standards.
Dear Doug, Greg isn't getting one this time Love, The Great I
For sale; Rare, priceless chemical engineering de part mental memos, autographed by Pellets, the Nervous Rabbit. x2228
Baby  I'm glad we're us again! I love you
Baby-BabyV
Beau, You're the best! I love you so much! Thanks for making me happy! Belle
Summer sublet available May. Air conditioned, furnished, large bedroom, living, kitchen, bath, Shady side. 205/month 687-0991
Wanted: 2 Bedroom apartment. Must be close to campus. Call Robin 578-4039
There once was a Hacker named Scott.
Whose terminal could work, but did not.
Its modem was lacking.
Which stifled Scott's hacking.
So he halted 'tiirit was bought.
Burma Shave.
The philosophy of Futilitarianism is futile; lievers in this philosophy, don't unite! It's futile!
Shari's Roommate, Sanity is just a useful form of madness. I just lost mine. Lover!
Technics Phase Linear Speakers 3 Yrs Left On 
Warranty Excellent Condition Call Rich 682- 
8526
Alice, Cathy, Gillian, Julie, Pan . . . You had a 
Great Season Love, your Valentine
Dear Mom, Thanks so much for Saturday Night! 
I'll never forget it! Love, W.B.
WAVE AT IT!
Huggybearhave a nice vacation whether ws get
together or not. Missing you already. Smelly.
Summer Sublet3BR, utilities included, fully 
furnished, carpetsmay-August-option on lease 
687-2570
Congratulations Dadda -nMama Anderson from 
ALL OF US who love you.
Wait, we're not Queer. Village Peopl
Senate leaders do it on the floor.
CivE's do it in the dirt.
Winston Thom is the sexiest creature on earth.Do me a favor. Ditch the chick.
Macho Man in hard har, sunglasses and jeans your plan? mine? today? tomorrow? 8:30? 5:00?
Hey Hunk, I love you to the max. Really. Hunk.
Carolyn and Carl: Thanks for all the help. Havaa can of pop on me. Love, Scott.
To Yeags, Have fun in California, thanks for agreat year! 4F.  the place to be.
Dear Mitch: Have a Happy Birthday and hang inthere. Love, Diane.
Captain  The engines are buckling and theshields won't last much longer!  Scottie
LOST: One Priceless Nobody Squealed Memo.Return to John Anderson.
Secret Admirer with charm and sophisticationdesires to meet young woman with azaela plant.
Aardvark, aardvark, won't you be my aardvark?
I.II be your aardvark. Try it - it's sublime.
What so you so if you can't dance and it's toowet to plow?
Room 300 McGill: P.S. Have a good break. 
Jeff.
Connie: Anyone who could tolerate me allfreshman year and whitewatering is every bit as gone.
Marco Dane is alive, well, and living in Landview!
James, Your face would be greatly improved if you wore thoseyou wore those paper bags I got you.
Miss Celeste, I'm in charge in Florida and don't you ever forget it.,-John *Myou ever forget it. John
"For the bast, molest Celeste" Just in jestYour guess!
Jim, Had any more dreams about the post officecalling? The straight jacket comes tomorrow.
C.L., Could you please fill 10,000 balloons withyour God-given air. J.B.
Jim, Please learn to control that stench emenat-ing form you. Your Donner Roommate
Scarsdale? SAY NO MORE! No what I mean? 
Nudge! Nudge! Eric I.
I have only one brother, but my brother has two.Who am I?
Your mother was a hamster, and your fathersmelled of elderberry! You dirty English KNN NIGGITS!
Mrs. M. must be coming to Pittsburgh we're having a heat wave.
Eat-A-Mita Fast Food Restaurant. All you caneat (located near the Parking Mita.)
I hereby disclaim any responsibility for oil shortage after I start work. E.P. (Mobil) Lander
Dan the Man Its no question.. All in B&W. Whet a halftone, what a ball!
l.L. Andy for ChE Chairman  let's wipe out jeer drinking and squealing in Doherty for good!
Rikki, Don't lose that number (422-5415) You don't want to call nobody else......
MagIt's good to sea you have a form grasp on thesituation. 12:30 crowd
Allison - So cool to be cold
Aunt Dot's Roomie, Rose Derling come to mesnake Mary's gone to bed...
Marlene, Wa love you too! The Students
Goz, The DMZ was never better. Keep it peacefulLove ya. Free and Happy
Sev is a Sev
Mitch, I would rather be a peer, I am sincere.Love, Kimmie
Second Floor Donner, You're Terrific. Debs
slOb and lOve: Have a good break. Happy semester almost over!  jOke.
Joseph - My wife is cold like the city - Henry
DadIf the queen had balls, she'd be king.Your Loving son, Tom
Darlene Sweetie, It's been so wonderful since you moved away. Roseline
George C., I would like to get to know you but Idon't know how.
To the Tour Guide in Boss 110, Do you knowwhere the tennis courts are? Just wondering...
Typing service. Fast, Efficient, reasonable IBM Seiectric. Term papers, dissertations, theses. Call Rita. 521-5479.
Boss 110 Tennis Pro's, We prefer Miller, betterorder ahead. Guess who?
110 Tennis Bums, Don't forget your "special"tennis balls!
To the questionable Tennis Players in Boss 110,challenge accepted. Will you show up?
Miss S. & Miss A. 
Colin, Please find me a Party! The Visitor
To all our buddies: Have a stimulating vacation.The Jack Wrangler Fan Club, CMU Chapter.
2 Bedroom furnished apt in Shadyside for May sublet. Call 3624482 evenings.
Joe: You're our favorite R.A. The Floor
C.L. Air-Head or not. I'll always love you just the same. Your Teddy Bear
Don't laugh! Someone might be looking at us!C.G.
IRON CITY go bankrupt? Not as long as rooms21 and 23 Pika remain conscious.
'Linda: Did Charles Dickens celebrate St. Patrick's Day in a Bleak House?
I never met a Pi Lam I wouldn't chuck a grapefruit out my window at. Wiggy.
Wanted: A man who can perform. Call DarleneVogel at Rhokston 8-4357
l o the 1978-79 RA. Staff - Thanks for your hard work and dedication.
Claudia, Jerry & Lorraine
To Doris  Awful!  Sam
Fr. Summers will speak at Tech House aboutthe supernatural wodd Wed. at 10:00 PM.
Squirrel Hill apartment for rent this summer and/or next year. Call Jeff 422-5942
We, the undersigned, hereby congratulate Kenneth Benvenuto for his outstanding acheivement in once again making Dean's List. His example inspires us all. David McVeyDavid Sochol, Kathy McGinley, Bruce Krebbers, Maureen Fernandez, Philip Sonnenklar, Larry Bucci, John Biggio, Marcella Betz, Carol Ghetian
Chemistry Majors: Lets eliminate Dorkiness fromchemistry today. For info, see D.W.
Doug: There's only one word for you - Dorky
E.E.s do it 'till it hertz.
S.A.E/s do it with each other.
The disciples of hate will hate forever! 2nd Dis
ciple
Delta Upsilon, Your mixer's suck anyway! 
Thank You
Val, What's worse than Pittsburgh? Good qu* 
tion! EL
FAT-MAN, Pardon me, but would you like 
dance? A JAG
Dear D.G.,
Thanks for working some Magic Changes!
Hopelessly devoted. The Dee Gees
Rick  How long will I love You? Only always. Love, Paula Clare
RHP: Happy Birthday 11 We'll celebretetonight. Love always, PCH
You can tune e piano. You can catch a fish But you canned TUNAFISH.
Stay tuned for more tune - long live thelunch-bunch 7677I Bye-bye grads I
ewn cC, If your friends are there then everything'sall right." Thanks. D.G.
LOST: One pet sheep with black garters. Answersto Sweetie Pie. Return to Bob.
LOST: One SEV is a Loau rubber stamp. Return to T. Fort, Jr.
Margaret Moon dances funny. From "The Committee".
Ms. Goodman: Why are you with W.T., when you can be with me?
CUDDY - I hate your guts! Stop Looking at malike thatl Kristy M.
Bav - Anybody from Abaecon can't be all Stave Talk inton: Do things reelly go batter with Wil1 **** Crudw* put eteam up against us? Jo0iG*hn * und Blaeen Sie eine Krahe. Si* 
bad. but talking to moles  lor shame. coke? We doubt R & J

---------------------------------------------------

AND MORE FREE CLASSIFIEDS
Dr. Egan  I want your daughter. Hand her over
or else. Lawrence Fenn
Alan Barnaby  Martin Stevens is bigger. 
 Patricia Rhinegold
Violet  You'd love the city. Come spend the
weekend in Rhokston - Cindy
Bunny and Chick Power!
Yes, dear. Anything you say, dear. Right away, 
dear. But please don't hit me.  Henry
Henry  You're such a wimp.  Darlene
I'm going to make it to the top  Violet Egan
Slave Driver  Please turn our Teddy Bear loose.
Your mistresses
at**i4 Eric 683-2511You Baboon, Without Denise for security, you'restuck with us plebians. Gwen and them.
Gwen and them  Denise is the only Securitythat I could ever want! The Baboon
Dear Cast  Is anybody there?  The Director 
Dea' Director  No.  The Cast
Scarp, How come Green never introduces us?Old One-Shot
Dear Director  Just kidding. There's alwaysat least one person.  The Cast
Dear Cast  You forget. That's me.  The Director
Dear Cast  Give your director a break, huh? Who wants to sleep with whom and when? Another Director Your ever'lovin'secretary
Get off my back! Leave me alone! Let me live!!
Sev (Please)
Happy Birthday, Audie. Fran
D.I.A. says: WORK ON BOOTH!
SCHNOOKIE: The wall isn't as big as youthought. I still care. Love, Schnookster
To RIP VAN TYSON, Stop by and see me in2118 sometime. Karen
Thank you for your patronage-Enjoy the SpringBreak! CMU Travel Office Staff
SHE E EIIIIIIIIT! Tim
TPIf you get lonely, just come up and visit me.
2 Bedroom, furnished apt. Shadyside. AvailableMay 7. Option to renew - Sept. 210/ mo. Vic or
Dear Sev: Praise the Load! The Load is myShepherd! Load of the Rings!
Tuttle you fabulous poodle you. Oh..uuck...you're such a woman. Love, Woman + Woman.
CMU is a void; a fig-newton of your imagination,or a cookie of your mind.
One and one has always been two, and I am I andyou are you.
Un-Costume Designer, Do you insist on notclothing the chorus? The Producers
Captain L., Desk and in file excepted, here's asloppy wet kiss. Cheif and Woodstock
To you: Plop, Plop, Plop, Boop, Boop, Boop,
Boop, Boing, Boing, Boing, Slurp, Slurp Zap
No, I'm not related to Groucho Marx! Moore
Twerp: We didn't say much. But I understand
much more now than before. Love Frog
Attention! John S. is much crazier than I am.
And I'm not an airhead. C
"Me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me . Mark Jonatti"
TARTAN-We want more letters from Brigham!
Celebrate Spring Break! 5 Cent Hamburgers at
Tartan Grill! March 20, 3-5 PM, only.
Dick Uher lives up to his name a former student
Free Classifieds are a waste of printing ink, one of 
the worlds most valuable resources!
It was free so I figured you'd like your names in
print: Canty, Chas, Geo.
Follow current trends; be post-functional, eat
your ice cream with a fork.
Aren't you getting tired of reading these stupid
ads?
Go see The Deer Hunter and Days of Heaven.
Then make the comparison for yourself . ..
I work in an Aid Store, I got an Afro to hide the
grease.  J.N.
SB-700A 3-Way Speaker System 2 yrs. Old, New 
Woofer and Midrange $450 Call Rick 681-5350
I'm saying anything I like, any way I like!
Dear Abby, She says he's got my ears.Only Twice.
Mr.& Mrs. J., Thankx again for the room. HJT The Visitor
From the Fellas, Get em pregnant and poot 'em. What happen?
Earn money at home. Send stamped self-addres-sed envelope to CLS, 4122 Lydia, Pittsburgh, Pa 15207
Beat Fred With This Newspaper
To Boss Hall, Minnessota Fats will replace me asnext year's Residence Director.
Love Lorraine
Alan Barnaby - Martin Stevens is bigger.Mildred Dunberg
Ted - The Neddie Game is fun to playTom Vogel
KJR There's nothing there without her. - The Cast
NR - NEVERMIND THE FRIENDSHIP,SPRINGTIME IS SKULL TIME. - DJ
Davis Rothish, Polly Skinish, would YOUkill to be free? Bobby Angel
I'm from Gary, Indiana, Gary, Gary, Indiana. A Fine Arts Student
"You just can't make that Dynamo hum." ( You know what they say about $40 bills!)
What really bothers me is millions seek escape via disco. Why can't they listen to bebop?
Don't you hate it when you get a cold and get HUUUUUGE mounds of HHHHCCCHHHHLEM in your throat?
UNCLE W. MY MELONS ARE IN SEASON.
Nancy Jean
There will be a meeting of the Gary, Indiana Society Tonight in the Fine Arts Building.
'We are not men..." Devo (They are pieces of shit floating in a vast sewer)
Come In! ...No! Open the door and come in!
I call other people nerds so they won't call me 
one. Who Am I
I call other people nerds so they won't call me
one. Who Am I?
To you know who. Ice cubes or hot chocolate to
night? From you know who
Dear Betas, We came in second but you're in first
place with us. Love, Kappa
B.T. FourGo for it. I will.
Cheryl G corrupts innocent minors. From: The 
Elders,
To the Butte Band: Loved you in the Garden. Will you play Pittsburgh?  Freebird
Happy Birthday to Sheb. Yeah! She's legal.Debbie
1 wuv you. Holly! W
Amy: I (with a smile) just can't forget. A Secret Admirer.
To all my good friends at CMU. BYE  E.P.L.
Tish: The game is over but a new one is starting.Your friend the bean
Amos Linus, Hapr**' a r..:.(2 yrs 4 months, 8 days). Just remember August 19th.Love, Mike
2 bedroom Apt. in Shadyside for summer sublet. Call 362-4482 evenings for details.
Alrie: Happy Birthday to you. It's okay for me!!!Lpve, Debbie
Asteroid  Damn it all, none of these bitches are worth doing it with.  Uncle W.
L.S.  I thought you were special, but you are just like all the rest...
The Physics test. The Fury, Good Friday, Passover & oh yes. Happy Birthday April 13 Janet...\ P.B.
Exchange Students! Summer vacationers! Be a paying guest in New Delhi, India. For information call 521-1616, 362-9152, weekends or after 6 PM.
JLP  Now what were you saying about drive-in movies and suede leather jackets?Signed, PIZZAZZ
Hey, PGH. love it or leave it.The 'Burgh Bros. 82
Alison: I've been faithful since the Rocks in the Park - E.LJ.
For Sale: One undever worn out, boring phrase.Sev
Dear Jane: Hi SIS!  Litl' Bro's Roommate
Dear Jane: Litl' Bro??  Litl' Bro
Roll on. Mellow Cruiser! (No passengers, please)
The Boss Hall Chronicle Lives!
OK, Guys! Let's all grow a Parkersburg Beard!
Parkersburg  A Collapsable Town.
DROP DEAD, RUDY. - Love Always.
Val: You are a turkey, but also a good friend of us chickens.
To Suzie: We miss you! It's no fun now since you left.  The Traynappers ( Ma-Bell & Company)
Baltimore Poly-People are FREAKS!
Carlos: Cheryl has made me a member of Beat Up Your Buddy Anonymous. So don't be messin' with me Boy!!!
Waldo: I find your company highly enjoyable. Hope to see you again soon.  Cicely
Lynn Hyatt: Are you having fun?
Present this ad for free breakfast to those who have come before and wish to come again.
From the Fellas, the 3-D's in life. Do it. Did it,
and Denied at.
A great summer to my MID brothers. Delta sis
ters and buddies. Later on A.J.T.
All persons interested in a gazorching competi
tion for Spring Carnival contact Steve ext. 4364 .
EROTIC DANCERS: Excellent entertainment
for private groups. CALL FOOT at ext 4313
Jim-Bob, No playing shampoo tonight. I have a 
headache. C
Poogy Lives!
Aren't 8th grade operettas fun?
Wrerrer wrere wrah wrahyer, wror whrerrerwrou're wrah wrahyah wreh STAYIN' ALIVE! STAYIN'ALIVE!
Mrs.Kelly, Get those students to work, now!!!The Boss
Jean, Cathy and Karenthe express has left without you. SCE
You'd think a person from Philadelphia wouldknow where Independence Hall was. Right Mitch?
Looking for Anner one c -*n thecloud marked "nine"
Hey Sam! Nice weather we're having, eh?
A fool and her legs are often parted
Hey Fred! Been to any nude parties lately?
Crazy-Nut: Daphne and Mel say they'll join in our parties any time. Love, Clumsy-Shit
YAMAHA FG-160 Acoustic Guitar, NEW, $185, Any Reasonable Offer Considered. Call Ray, 578-4846.
Sublet beautiful furn. 1 br apt. (Morewood Ave.) Mid-May to Sept; grad student or professional person(s) only. 578-2381 (afternoons), 687- 246/ (eves.)
Benjamin: Can't wait for Lent to end  See you at the Ressurection. Love, Sally J.
Thanks Mrs. Rudman, Mary Ann and Anne for making CMU special . . . DPM
Hi Sexy  Smile!  Me
Mer: Will you go half-sies with me on a double bed.  Your Sleepy Companion.
MMM, I Want Your Body. - MCG
Benz: I love you more than I have ever loved anyone.  Guess
Jim Bob: Life is a physical examination and you are the urine specimen.  John
Hircocervi Lives.
Celeste: Thanks for the elevator ride, you were great.  you know who.
For Sale  Garrard 40B Turntable. New cartridge and stylus. Call Jeff X4463.
Kelly: I wish we could become talking friends again like old times.  Your first-Ex.
Little Sisters: For a good time come to 3-Z any time.  Zeta Omega Omega.
. . . there's so much forgotten. And too much recalled. And why did you leave at all?
C.P.L.  You make my onion ring. I know who makes your bean sprout.  Love, C.P.D.

---------------------------------------------------

NO MORE FREE CLASSIFIEDS!
PervI can't find the drool buckets again. Did
Sue borrow them? Perv
Harpo and Tuna Bev invite yunz to a free tuna
lunch"bunch." Get in touch!!I
TUNA BEV SAYS: 'He who eats TUNA never
worries about his TUNA friends."
Hold the picklesjust add mayo. (Hi Woody!)
People who live in TUNA shouldn't throw cans.
People who live in CANS shouldn't throw TUNA.
Wanted: Soldiers -Apeditionary
rorce forming for Spring Break takeover of Haiti. 
Call x-4450.
Mel & Mike, Partake wildly, to the maximal de
gree, to the highest crescendo . . . High Divers
I never met a PI LAM I wouldn't chuck a grape
fruit out my window at. ON EG
KarenI'm tired of blondes with long legswhere
are you? Love, Rod
Do you ever eat honey or coffee yogurt? Help!
Call Naxalbari Paul, x3561, for details.
Looking for someone to share apartment with me
during summer, in L.A., Mark x3058, 681-6146
Lost - one life size whoopie doll. Return to Bruce
in Computer Science Department.
Interested in playing Cricket? Please contact Perumal (Peru) at 687-5420  evenings and weekends.
MLNBut do they have Wendy's in England?
NMS
Anne Next time you sweep, could you please find the million dollars I misplaced?
Hi sexyAre you corniculate? Me.
"Karen, Ihope that you, Terry and Lou have a fun time in California Dan"
To Big-T Lisa, There's someone over in Alpha-1 that wants to meet you for just one night
Mr. Suspenders  You're one hell of a dancer.(And that ain't all.) The Black Leotard.
Dec. it snowed/ Jan. was cold/ Feb. is gone/ Mar.  Joe, where your thesis?  Dr. H
ARTISTE EXTRAORDINAIRE, How's yournaked orange? Cheryl Tiegs look-alikes always have more you-know-what. JL
Welcome to CMU Garifalia and to you and Nick,Happy Birthday  our favorite Greeks
Horror! Suspense!! SDC movies presents 'TheSpecimen"! Starring Swiss Miss's roommate.
Herman Melville eats blubber.
nnaoJnamrepuS lyadhtriB yppaH
Tennis Fellas, Whatsa' matter? Your coach
chicken? When's our match? Wating...
Spot and Rover, Welcome to college!
Plants of eight
Goosey, Wherever you are, come back!
To Joel, Thanks for everything. Love, Sue
HAPPY BIRTHDAY: Tony Carrington, Debbie Johnson, Linda Stuckrath and ALL beautiful March people. Alrie Christian.
Baby You're a great friend, but an even better girlfriend. Keep it up -Baby-Baby
Star eyes - I love you.  Dustin
Scobell. IN honor of your past loyalty I'm making you all full members of the Wood Elves Guild. Congratulations!  The Wood Elf King
To the Big Ten Inch, Where are you when I need you? Hot-Blooded
Let the world know, John much likes Ann for more than just her body.
To the Guys at PI LAM, I haven't forgotten you AL
Dear Nose, Eskimo's would love your kissing, I do... Love always and forever, Luchita
No Mail Lately? Call "Acme Insta-Mail Service" Guaranteed two letters per week! x 4239
EZ  There will never be another you DK
To all the Fleckettes (fringeas well as prime-):
Have a stimulating vacation. xxxo Dave
To; You know who you are. You're wonderful,
Ann. Add this to your list, Chris!
To the Deli-man: You'll always be our chipped
ham. the American cheeses of 2-C-1
Glen, Although trees aren't your specialty, you
climbed to the top at Greek Sing. Ann
Joanie - 2 Things: 1) When are you going to come
to my house? and 2) Suck eggs!
Ritterface, I hope your first crushee in the real
world isnt shy. Ann
Jane, are you sure you're not Cope's Grand
mother? Ann(e)
To the Pitneyface and that Brown girl: Thanks
for a home-away-from-home. Fran Ann
Ann with an e, Joanie can't say zero today! Ann
without an e.
Superman: You're the only one for me!
Jane Brane
To Stud: Did the guy with "the shoes" find your
H.C.? Just wondering, Fred
Hey Alrie, I just love those Christians. Sneb
Happy Birthday Alrie, you funny Sandusky Ohioface wearing rascal you. Debbie
For Rent: Forest Hills effcy. Equipped kitchen & garage. Near pkwy. April 1. $150 +, 351-2528.
Tp Marsha: I'll rub noses and/or band-aids any time you want Honey.  AATI - Chem E.
Live in a 5th Ave. mansion this summer. Effici
ency apt. Call 683-7323 (before 9 AM)
Summer Sublet, corner of Fifth and Wilkins. 
$140 inc. utilities, furnished call 681-4130
BE SURETell Mom to send you the STUDENT
SERVICES SURVIVAL PACKAGE
Fortune: Your lover will never leave you. (Heh, 
heh,heh!)
Keith, Have a good time in Tennessee withTennis. Greg
I know I can't sing, have hairy armpits and amincredibly ugly. P. Smith
"OOH! PICK ME! I KNOW! GIVE ME
PHYSICS!" Robert I. Zussman
I like writing gibberish and naming it after a
quote from Shakespeare.  Wm. Faulkner
Ancient "Savage" Proverb: youcanput yourMarconapot or youcanheadyourc, but you'llalwayscatchyourMarc withaheadfullofpot.
J.P. Messer: What do you say we rent our room 
out? Roomie.
Janet L. You're sweeter than that box of candy anyday  You're not-so-sweet admirer 
Paui, I'll typewriter race you any time. Love,
Kath.
Ellen: Be Ma Bell!  Cookie Monster
Carl: Wake Up! - Fritz
Lisa: God Help You.  Folio Person
Russ: You Deserve To Get Dec-ed!  Furry Near.
JMJ: ETFSS. TCISH. 55MDTM14. IAGTTYOTCATTOTTSD. Let me know what you don't understand.  AJS
Dear Diane and Julie: Was your mystery date good and exciting?
Dear Julie. Did the telephone operator teach yoti how to play tennis?
Dear Julie: Why don't you follow in the steps of your Nova?
To the roommates of the Woodlawn Psych major,I feel sorry for you.  signed. Dead.
UNCLE  Sell the house, sell the shop, buy a ticket for the West Coast.  A.
Da Bozza: Upa yours widda kiss ona de cheeka. Bbkiani, Sglini, Trlini. Big Willy, Mario.
Waj  In the tradition of our relationship. I'd just like to say F-K You! LB
Little Boy  I'll love you always.
Huge Euge  How about making the tests difficult maybe then they'll be easy
Discos are great places for boring, laid back people to meet each other and reproduce. FZ.
To Porky, You've got some pretty meaty hams! Sincerely, The Zoo
There are worse things I could do than drop a
speaker from my room . . .
You are a test tube baby, data data data dah.
And your mother was pyrex . . .
Dave, Kirk and Luch: I really appreciate your efefforts after "the fall. Thanks so much!!
D. and K.Where were you on the night of April
20th 1984???
Kim, Thanx for the T-shirts, and happy Birthday!
Your Fin-Men
Hey El and Val, I live in Pgh, but I like D.C. 
MID14
Dazz, If it's worth having, it's worth the effort.
Congratulations!! Kool-aid
Neil One of the great Lay-out men of all
time. Xavier HallanderIf Greeks can sing so can the Polish people. Viva
la Revolution. Cole Bassy
Lauren, Your big heart is in a small package.
Keep those 3s coming. Buddy 111
ATom was right. It all depends on your point of
view.
Prof Brienza  Don't put your students through unnecessary hell. My poetry sucks. T.S. Eliot
Steve and Dave, Finman will live in 7980!
Millions to be made! HJT
My left foot's bigger than the other one is 
It's a regular Zombie hoof.
I'm really not a druggie derelict burnout, I only
look that way. E. Costello
J.C. Please clean up your side of the room, your excrement is really piling up
Celeste, Life is an outhouse and you are the pissant The Land Shark
New Haven. Ride needed for break  Can leave anytime. Call Jane, 687-4989 or 578-2309.
Roseline, Dear, Yesterday seems miles away.
Thank God for that.  Darlene.
Riff Raff, Lets do the Time Warp again! Surprise!Surprise!! Columbia
You're a Test-Tube Baby Data Data Data Da, andyour mother was Pyrex...
My Casserole? Oh! Mary don't ask...
Ronni (Little Sis), I hope you enjoyed the greenmilkshake! D.G. Love, Big Sis
Sing, Swing, Slime, Peter Pan and Speakers fallingsix flights...It could be worse!
To Hot Legs, I love ya honey! Yours,
'To Sexy, When you went from flat to fluffy, it flipped flipped me out! Midnight Caller
Querido Me, Que Buenos Senos y Lavadora Toda me Amor, El Cosquillosodor
D.  Since I missed you on Valentine's Day:I Love You! Alethea
Hey Joanie: YOu've made it! You're gonna be the best graduate student they've ever seen! US
Disco Mike: I could dance all night with you:You're the greatest! Your Disco Partner 
Scotch n' Soda - Good Luck with "Watercolors"  Gin n'Tonic
Congratulations to the Bionic Boy, Face, The Harry and Joe Show, and the Deadly Medley
To the Lunch, Life's a Bitch, Lon live the Greyhounds! Lunch III was NOT at CMU on February 15th, and I was NOT stoned! Graham Chapman
JH  Thanks for being so attentive. You're more addictive than saccharine  An ex-Burt fan.
Not pregnant and want to be? Call Hawklip
Hair too dry? Try "Hackers" brand hair conditioner. Guaranteed to keep the grease flowing.
Yol-Learns-Steel Business got you down? Hey,Babe, take a walk on the wild side. -Colored Girls
Yo, Green. Now that whaling is out of season,how'bout chirping? B.S.
Ellie  We made the paper.  Davey.
Mike Shiltan, Fly Away Now! TEKies
Hey Skilton, Flay Away Now and take the shad
ow with you. TEKies
Alison, I need Elaine in my life! AJT, The visitor
Francesco: Quandi B'Lunes Che Sono? LaBanda Dell'Arte
PIZZZAZZ. How about shower, cocktails,suede jackets, drive-in? Summer school starts if the answer's yes!
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOANN!! Kimmie, Diane,Jany, Lynn.
From McGill 111, We're still here they haven'tcaught us yet. RTB
Kay, Let me stick my love in your eye so you'llsee me coming! Lover!
Hey, El, Jake, Russ, Go Wiggle! MID14
Kay  Kay I'll miss you, must leave your heartbehind. Where's my birthday card? Lover!
Hey Jake, Russ, and El I have the Rack Time Blues. MID14
Aud: YOu can't go wrong with Paul Masson.
Nance
Glen Meader. YOu are the star, baby, it's been electric! All in B&W. T'Riff.
John: A coupla friends & I can whip up a few (thousand) Qu4che in no time. Jane Doe
Cindy, I'll skrunch your Rollos anytime as long as you nibs my Reese's Pieces! George.
Luch, So when does my surprise come? Mark
JMJ  you're not a PAQ(E) no matter what MJW and LF say. WL,AJS.
Alex K. Who are the other 2 warm bodies?

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS&CLASSHEDAD5 
Classified Announcements:
Deadline, Wednesday, noon. Rate - $.10 
word. Address all classifieds to TARTAN 
Business Manager.
classified
Tennis Pros wanted-Excellent summer
seasonal and year round positions available; 
good playing and teaching background 
required. Call (301)654-3370, or send 2 
complete resumes, pictures to: K.J.
Belknap, W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut
Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, 
Maryland, 20015.
Oakland area large furnished 2-bedroom
apt. for rent $270 + utilities. Immediate. 
655-1872 after 5.
Female wishes to share established apart
ment or house in Squirrel Hill. Call even
ings  682-1461.
Typing service. Fast, effective, reasonable.
IBM selectric. Term papers, dissertations, 
thesis. Call Rita, 521-5479.
PART-TIME WORK STUDY STUDENT 
FOR THISTLE. Exciting work at con
venient hours. Cantact Saul, 6839773. 
Be a paying guest in New Delhi, India. For 
exchange students, vacationers. For infor
mation call 521-1616, 362-9152.
Indian family desiring driver for 4 to 6 
weeks beginning May 11. Driver will use 
their station wagon to drive them from 
New York to West Coast and return. Appli
cant please telephone Colleen at 461 -110. 
Anyone who is interested in selling their 
wares at the Spring Carnival Arts and 
Crafts Fair, contact Anne Goldhammer or 
Tammy Stephenson at 578-2107, for fur 
ther information.
clubs
AIESEC-CMU, the International Associa
tion of Students in Economics and Manage
ment, meets every Wednesday, 4:30 PM 
in Skibo 11. The campus community is
welcome.
The Finance Committee of Student
Senate meets Thursdays in Skibo, 
Room 13 at 7 PM. Meetings are open 
to the public.
Activities Board Coffeehouse Committee
will be meeting on Thursday at 7 PM in 
Room 33 Skibo. It is important that all 
Committee Members be present. Yearbook 
pictures will be taken at that time. Also 
there are some changes in the schedule to 
be discussed.
CMU's Roman Catholic chaplaincy cele
brates mass at 12:30 PM each day Monday 
through Friday in Skibo 39. What a perfect 
way to make your lenten season more 
meaningful! All are welcome. The chapel 
is open daily for prayer and meditation. 
Openings at Tech House. The Catholic 
House on campus has openings for next 
year. If interested call George at 621-2911.
Are you aware of your supernatural life?
Fr. Summers will speak about supernatural 
life and awareness at the next meeting of 
the Fellowship of Saint Don Bosco on 
Wednesday, March 21, 10 PM at Tech 
House. All are welcome.
The Communication Skills Center offers 
individual instruction for students at all 
levels and in all colleges who need help 
with any aspect of writing. You can get 
tailor-made programs focused on specific 
writing and thinking skills, help in pre
paring and revising assignments, help with 
research projects, applications and resumes, 
and computer-assisted instruction. Call or 
come in to make an appointment with a fa
culty member: 161 Baker Hall, x2924, 
Monday through Friday 9:00 to 4.00. 
PEER HELP is students trained to listen 
and help you make your own decisions. 
For counseling, campus information, tu
toring, health and law referrals, emergency 
loans, or just someone to talk to, stop by 
the Center, Baker Hall 150-A, or phone, 
621-9900. Hours: Weekdays10:30 to 
5:30; Sundays to Thursdays7:30 to 
11:30. Fridays and Saturdays7:30 to 
12:30.
SDC OFFICE HOURS. The Students'
Dorm Council has established office hours 
in room 55, Skibo (x2114) during these 
times: Monday 3:45 to 4:45 PM, Tues
day 1:30 to 2:30, Wednesday 12:15 to 
1:15, Thursday 1:30 to 2:30, and Friday 
10:30 to 11:30 AM. Any undergraduate 
dormitory resident is invited to stop by 
or call during the aboye times to discuss 
(complain about?) any aspect of living 
on campus.
H&SS Students: The H&SS College
Student Advisory committee (SAC) meets 
every Thursday in the H&SS college lounge 
'.BH 254-C). It provides a means of student 
input into decisions made by the college. 
If you want a voice in your future and 
your college's future, come to the next 
meetinr
ATTENTION BOOTH CHAIRMEN: Meet
ing tonight, room 12 Skibo, at 6:30 PM. 
Hand in booth design and choose midway 
watch.
YOU CAN STILL BUY A THISTLE!
On sale at the Skibo information desk. 
$12.50 or $14.00 mailed.
1978 THISTLE SUBSCRIBERS - Stu
dents, Faculty, Administration: Pick up 
your yearbooks from the Skibo Informa
tion Desk.
LAST CHANCE POSITIVELY!!! Seniors,
the photographer will be here April 4 and 5 
to take your portraits. Sign up at Skibo In
formation Desk.
SCOTCH 'N SODA SCRIPX REVlbW!
Script Review is coming! Scripts for the 
1980 Spring Musical will be solicited. Book 
shows and Musical Reviews complete 
scripts and scores preferred but idea 
sketches acceptable Saturday April 28, 
1979. Funded by Student Senate.
general
President Richard M. Cyert will have
open office hours for students during 
March and April.
The dates for these meeting are Wednes
day, March 14 and Friday, April 13, be
tween 3 and 5 p.m. in his office. Students 
who wish to meet individually with the 
president should telephone his office, 
578-2200, for an appointment between 
3 and 4 o'clock. The hour between 4 
and 5 o'clock will be open for students 
who want to meet with the president 
but do not have an appointment.
If is hoped that this program will 
be a benefit to both the president 
and the sudents in allowing students 
direct contact with him.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS holds open 
office hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
New Pool Hours:
MondayFriday 4:306:30 PM. Other
hours remain the same.
There will be an OSA-P meeting, March 21 
at 8:30 PM in the Hunt Library Multipur
pose Room. Professor Robert V. Edwards, 
Case-Western Reserve University, will be 
speaking on "Laser Doppler Velocimetry." 
The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The Pittsburgh Chapter of the American 
Society for Information Science will meet 
on Thursday, March 28 in Skibo, Room 
105. Dinner will be served at 6:30 PM. 
After dinner, at 7:30 PM, Mr. Sam Beatty, 
Executive Director of ASIS will speak on 
"ASIS As An Interactive System.
Guests are welcome for the entire even
ing program or to the lecture alone. For 
further information, please contact Ms. 
Marilyn Albright, Hunt Library, 578-2442. 
Following the last successful meeting, the 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ORGANI
ZATION will meet again this Wednesday 
March 21, 6:30 PM in Skibo 13. Topics 
to be discussed will include report of 
steering committee's meeting with Dean 
Swank, International student housing. 
Spring Carnival, election of officers, etc. 
All foreign students are expected to attend. 
"Women, Religion and Society" is the 
topic of tonight's Pitcairn-Crabbe Founda
tion lecture. Dr. Josephine Massyngberde 
Ford, Dept, of Theology at Notre Dame, 
and Ms. Ellen Lewis, Acting Rabbi of the 
North Hills Jewish Community Center, 
will speak. Tuesday, March 20, 8 PM, 
University of Pittsburgh, Room 120, 
David Lawrence Hall.
Interested in the roles women have played
in Judaism? Curious about some Jewish 
answers to Feminism? On Sunday, March
25, at 6 PM, Mrs. Esther Shkop will address 
these issues at a Hillel dinner. Call 621  
8875 for reservations
It's Spring! Come Roller Skate Saturday
evening, March 24. Transportation from 
Hillel to the rink will be provided. Call
Prof. Menachem Milson arrived from
Israel last week and will serve as Pitts
burgh's Jewish Scholar in Residence only 
through April 1, 1979. Prof. Milson heads 
Hebrew University's Institute of Asian and 
African Studies and served as President 
Sadat's aide-de-campe. CMU students are 
invited to join Prof. Milson at a University 
Faculty dinner on March 21 at 6 PM in 
the Hillel Lounge. Call 6218875 for 
dinner reservations. Prof. Milson will 
discuss Arab-lsraeli relations. Lecture open 
to all--no reservations required-at 8 PM, 
March 21, in the Rogal Room of the 
Jewish Community Center, 315 S. Bellefield Ave.
On March 24th and 25th, the National
Health Federation will hold its Regional 
Conference at the William Penn Hotel 
in downtown Pittsburgh. The two day 
program of continuous lectures and dem
onstrations will feature some top speakers 
in the natural health movement such as 
Dick Gregory, Dr. John Christophermaster herbalist, and many others. Local 
personalities will include James Howard 
Winer and Drs. Woolhandler and Susser. 
Entrance fees are $5.00 per day or $8.00 
for both days.
Everything you've always wanted to know 
about consumer health issues will be avail
able under one roof Monday, March 26 
from 9 AM to 5 PM in the Student Union, 
Schenley Hall, at the University of Pitts
burgh. The day long event is free and open 
to students, faculty, and staff from the 
area as well as to the general public. For 
further information contact the Pitt Stu
dent Health Service, 624-5244 
On Tuesday, March 27th the Universities 
Off Campus Housing Office will sponsor an 
informative seminar. The meeting will take 
place at 7:00 PM in the Student Union 
Lower Lounge, University of Pittsburgh. 
The topic will be "Lifestyles" and will 
deal with Off-Campus housing from var
ious points of view , including students, 
landlords, and a judicial coordinator. 
There is a vacant seat in CIT due to the 
election of Scott Sibley as President. This 
seat will be filled by petition. Any CiT 
student wishing to fill this seat should ob
tain a petition from the Information Desk 
at Skibo. Twenty-five signatures are re
quired. Petitions are due April 2.
The library will be renting typewriters be
ginning this week. Two typewriters will be 
available at the Hunt circulation desk and 
one at E&S. Fee for rental is 50 cents for a 
half-hour, 75 cents for an hour. Typewri
ters are available all hours the library is 
open.
Looking for a summer job? The Summer
Jobs Bank of SARC can help you. Come 
to the Alumni Office, 5th floor, Warner 
Hall during the following times: Monday 
2:30-4:30; Tuesday 10:00-11 .^Thurs
day 2:304:30; Friday 1:003:00 and 
we'll help you out.

---------------------------------------------------

st .b...
March 22 at 6, 8, 10 PM
I Never Promised You A Rose Garden in 
DFT 2210. Admission is .75 with ID/$1 
without.
Kathleen Quinlan gives a sensitive per
formance as an emotionally disturbed ado
lescent who descends into a nightmare 
fantasy world she created to escape from 
the realities of her confused home life. Bibi 
Anderson, as the psychiatrist, helps her to 
emerge from her dreamworld and to cease 
her self-mutilation. Joanne Greenbergs 
renowned novel is insightfully adapted to 
film.
April 5 at 6, 8:30, 11 PM
King Lear in DH2210. Admission is .75
with ID/$1 without.
Peter Brook, one of the great stage direc
tors of our time, directs Paul Scofield 
(Oscar winning star of A Man For All 
Seasons) in the role of King Lear. Ac
claimed by Judith Crist of New York 
Magazine as ...drama of the highest 
and a film even for non-Shakespeareans...
April 6 at 6, 8, 10, 12 PM 
Saturday Night Fever in DH2210. Admis
sion is $1 with ID/S1.25 without.
Oscar nominess John Travolta gives a 
sensual performance as a local disco king
pin at the peak of his popularity. Once a 
week, after six full days of work, Travolta 
takes a deep breath, douses himself with 
Brut, dons a floral bodyshirt and platform 
shoes and ritualistically prepares himself 
for Saturady night. The disco dance se
quences, matched in vitality by the Bee 
Gees music make the film an accurate 
barometer for the seventies.theater...
CMUs Opera Theatre program will pre
sent The Beggars Opera April 5 to 8 in the 
Alumni Concert Hall at 8 PM. Student 
tickets are $2.
The CMU drama department will pre
sent George Bernard Shaw's Misalliance 
from March 15 thru 24. Tickets can be 
obtained from the CMU box office with 
ID.Campus Program Planning will present 
excerpts from the forthcoming The Beg
gars Opera. These scenes will take place in 
the Skibo Lobby on Monday, April 2 at 
noon. The actual production by the Camegie-Mellon University Opera Theatre will 
take place April 5 through the 8th.
Leonard Minoy comes to Pittsburghs 
Carnegie Music Hall April 2 for a single 
performance of his one-man multi-image 
production, Vincent, to benefit Pittsburgh 
Public Theatre. Tickets for this benefit are 
now on sale for $25 and $10 with half the 
ticket cost tax-deductible. To order, simply 
send a check or money order along with a 
self-addressed stamped envelope to Nimoy, 
Suite 1150, 300 Sixth Ave. Bldg., Pitts
burgh, PA 15222.
Pittsburgh Public Theatre will presen 
For Colored Girls Who Have Considered 
Suicide/When the Rainbow Is Enuf. It 
will run from March 14 thru May 6. Pre
view performances will begin March 8. 
Seats may be reserved at the Public Box 
Office, 323-1900.
Scotch n Soda, student run theatre pre
sents WATERCOLORS - Spring Musical 
1979. WATERCOLORS is an original 
musical that tells the love story of a young 
female artist growing up in the 1960s. Per
formances are April 16-21, the week of 
Spring Carnival, and will be held in the 
Skibo Ballroom, curtain time 8:05 PM. 
Tickets go on sale on April 3 at the Skibo 
Information Desk, and the Scotch n Soda 
ticket booth in the Baker Hall lobby. There 
will be no reserved seating and tickets will 
be sold at the door. A special group rate 
will also be available. For further informa
tion contact Scotch n Soda at 578-3522.
Pittsburgh Public Theatres third work
shop production in the TRIO! series, Da
mien Leakes musical, CHILD OF THE 
SUN, has been cancelled due to a conflict 
in the authors schedule. TRIO! subscribers 
are asked to return their tickets to TRIO!, 
Suite 1150, 300 Sixth Avenue, Bldg., 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222 for a refund. If they 
so desire, they may donate the price of the 
ticket for a tax deductible contribution. 
Either way, the TRIO! office must have 
written confirmation from the ticket 
purchaser. For ticket information, call 
765-3500.
Theatre Express will present Made By 
Two on March 15, 16, 17, 18, 22, 23, 24,
25, 29, 30, 31 and April 1. Curtain times 
are Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays at 
8:30 PM and Sundays at 2 PM. For reserva
tions call 621-5454.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will pre
sent Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are 
Dead from March 23 thru April 28. Cur
tain times are Thursdays and Sundays 
at 8 PM and Fridays and Saturdays at 
8:30 PM. For reservations call 621-2876.
Theatre Express will present Hotel For 
Criminals April 12, 13, 15, 19, 20, 21, 22,
26, 27, 28,29, and May 3,4, 5, and 6. Per
formances are Thursdays, Fridays and Sat
urdays at 8:30 PM and Sundays at 2 PM. 
For reservations call 621-5454.
Some Cupid Kills With Arrows, Some 
With Traps, a series of readings from 
Shakespeares female characters will open 
March 29 with a matinee performance at
2 PM, Kresge Theatre, Carlow campus.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse will present 
Romeo and Juliet on March 15 thru April 
11. Performances are Thursday thru Sun
day evenings at 8 PM. For more informa
tion call 6214445.
The McKeesport Little Theatre will pre
sent Twigs on March 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 
25, 30, 31, and April 1. For more infor
mation call 673-1100.
The Penn Hills Players will present four 
preformances of Gore Vidals political 
drama, The Best Man on March 30 and 31 
and April 6 and 7, at the Penn Junior High 
 on Duff Road in Penn Hills. Curtain is 
at 8:30 PM. Tickets at the door are $3. 
Senior citizens and students are admitted 
on Fridays for $2.
The Playhouse Junior will present The 
Ghost of Mr. Penny from February 24 thru 
April 14. Performance times are 11 and 
2:30 PM on Saturdays and 2:30 PM on 
Sundays. For more information call 621- 
4445.
Camelot Production will present Gypsy at 
the Plaza Theatre, 4765 Liberty Avenue, 
Bloomfield (next to West Penn Hospital) 
on Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings 
thru April 1. Ticket, group and reservation 
information may be obtained by calling 
683-7770.cinema...
SDC presents on April 7:
The Bridge on the River Kwai at 6, 9, and 
12 PM.
William Holden, Alec Guiness, Jack 
Hawkins. Filmed in the teaming jungles of 
Ceylon, this spectacle concerns the inmates 
of a Japanese prison camp early in WWII. A 
towering triumph of adventure and ex
citement. The film will be shown in DH 
2210. Admission is .50 with ID/$ 1 with
out.
Coming movies in the Pittsburgh Play
house Film Repertory are: March 20, The 
Third Man; March 21, Swept Away, March 
22, Mr. Klein\ March 23, A Man and A 
Woman-, March 24, Dog Day Afternoon-, 
March 25, The Man Who Would Be King-, 
March 26, The iMSt Waltz, March 27, Ugetsu, March 28, Lolita-, March 29, Monsieur 
Verdoux-, March 30, Women In Love\ and 
March 31, Casablanca. All seats are $2 with 
two showings nightly starting at 7:30 PM. 
For more ir^ormation call 621-4445.
upcoming events
The Music Room by Satyajit Ray will 
be shown March 22 at 8 PM in the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall. Admission is $1.
Alfred Hitchcocks Rebecca will be 
shown March 23 at 1 PM in the Museum 
of Art Theatre. Admission is $1.
The World of Apu by Satyajit Ray will 
be shown March 29 at 8 PM in the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall. Admission is $1.
Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo will be 
shown March 30 at 1 PM in the Museum 
of Art Theatre. Admission is $1.
The Goddess will be shown April 5 at 
8 PM in the Museum of Art Theatre. Ad
mission is $1.
Beauty and the Beast by Jean Cocteau 
will be shown April 7 at 2:30 PM in the 
Museum of Art Theatre. Admission is $1.
Costume contests are still going on at* 
the Rocky Horror Picture Show at Kings 
Court Theatre. On March 23 and 24 Rocky 
fans are invited to dress in old-fashioned 
bathing suits for the Mr. and Mrs. Rocky 
Contest and on March 30 and 31 it will be 
Circus Night with a side show in the lobby 
and fans dressed as circus performers.
March 25, Pianist Kari Miller, Carlow 
College faculty member, will be in recital 
at 8 PM, Kresge Theatre, Carlow campus.
music...
Up coming events at the Stanley The
atre are: Stephen Stills, March 24; National 
Lampoons If Were Late Start Without Us, 
March 25; Jack Morgan and his Russ Mor
gan Orchestra, March 28; Judy Collins, 
April 7; and B.B.King and Bobbie Blue 
Band, April 13.
A concert of works by Pittsburgh com
poser Marilyn Taft Thomas will be pre
sented on April 9 at 8:15 PM at the First 
Unitarian Church of Pittsburgh, Ellsworth 
and Morewood Avenues in Shady side. Ad
mission if free.
Phoebe Snow will appear at Duquesne 
University Ballroom on April 6 at 8 PM. 
Tickets are $5.50 and $4.50 with student 
ID and are on sale at Duquesne and Pitt 
Students Unions and National Record 
Marts.
Victor Borge will appear as part of the 
Pops Series at Heinz Hall on March 30 and 
April 1 and 2. For time and ticket infor
mation call 281-8185.
The Alternative Coffeehouse will pre
sent Mike Crevak and Chuck Kennedy 
playing contemporary folk music at 8 PM 
on March 23 and Bill Fichter singing tra
ditional moutain music at 8 PM on March 
30.
The Second Annual Press Old Newsboys 
Benefit Bluegrass Concert will be held 
April 1 at 2 PM in the Antonian Theatre on 
Carlow Colleges campus. Admission is $5 
for adults and $2 for children under 12.
The Womens Club of CMU will present 
The Friends of Robert Schmertz in con
cert in the GSIA auditorium on April 9 
at 8 PM.
Donald Johanos will conduct the Pitts
burgh Symphony Chamber Orchestra, 
opera and recording star Mildred Miller and 
the Heinz Chapel Mens Chorus in a con
cert at Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall 
in Oakland on March 30 at 8 PM. For more 
information call 624-3344.
Soprano Catherine Bomstein, member 
of the Carlow faculty, will be in recital 
April 1, at Kresge Theatre, Carlow campus 
at 3 PM.
The Pittsburgh Opera will present Von 
Quichotte on March 28 and 31 at 8 PM. 
For more information call 281-0192.
Guitarist Jamie Bell, member of the Carlow faculty, will be in recital March 31, at 
Kresge Theatre, Carlow campus at 8 PM.
art...
G. Kwitech, G. Johnson, and L. Trunzo 
will exhibit paintings and drawings at the 
Forbes Street Gallery from April 3 thru 8. 
Gallery times are 12 to 4 PM Wednesday 
thru Sunday and 7 to 9 PM Tuesday thru 
Thursday.
CMU Student Projects will be on dis
play in the Entrance Gallery of the Muse
um of Art, Carnegie Institute thru April 1. 
Museum hours are Tuesdays thru Saturdays 
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Docu
mentation, CMU, will present an exhibit of 
student art from March 5 thru April 6. The 
show, entitled Plants Only - CMU Student 
Art will feature works in a variety of medi
ums, including glass, woodcuts, silkscreens, 
sculpure, oils and water colors, and is open 
to the public free of charge. The gallery is 
located in the Penthouse of Hunt library 
on the Carnegie-Mellon campus and is open 
from 9 AM to 5 PM, Monday through Fri
day.
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute 
will exhibit Twentieth Century French 
Prints in Gallery 10 from February 15 
through June 10. It will include prints by 
Jaques Villon, Henri Matisse, Georges 
Braque, Fernand Leger, Pierre Soulages and 
Georges Rouault. Museum hours are Tues
day thru Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
Photographs from the permanent collec
tion will be exhibited in the Ground Floor 
Corridor from February 8 thru May 3. 
Gallery times are Tuesdays thru Saturdays
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays from 1 to 6 
PM.
China Trade Porcelain from the collec
tion of Mrs. James M. Schoonmaker, Jr. 
will be displayed in the Treasure Room 
thru May 13. Gallery times are Tuesdays 
thru Saturdays from 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
Munakata Woodblock Prints will be on 
display in Gallery D of the Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute from March 15 thru Ap
ril 29. Galley times are Tuesdays through 
Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays 
from 1 to 6 PM.
On March 19 the Hewlitt Gallery will 
have a grand re-opening with a show by 
Philip Pearlstein, a CMU alumnus. Gallery 
times are daily from from 10 AM to 4 PM 
and evenings of CFA performances.etc...
Philip Dow will give a reading of his 
poetry on March 22 at 8 PM in the Wherret 
Room. Admission is free.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will pre
sent Dohnanyi Suite, Mobile and Frankie 
and Johnny on March 23, 24 and 25 and 
Winterset, Flower Festival and La Danse 
Triomphe on April 6, 7 and 8. For more 
information call 281-0360.
A festival of Russian Dance will be pre
sented April 1 at 3 PM at Heinz Hall by the 
Pittsburgh Dance Council. For more infor
mation call 355-0330.
The Pennsylvania Needleworker, a lec
ture by Rachel Maines, director of the Cen
ter for the History of American Needle
work, will be featured at 8 PM, Kresge 
Theatre, Carlow campus.
Roger McCough and Brian Patten will 
give poetry readings as part of the Inter
national Poetry Forum on March 28 at 8 
PM. Student tickets are $2.25.
rALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE. DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
iiitiiii.J*
