 Summer School Tuition Increases Per-unit
by Paul Smith
The tuition of the summer program at 
CMU is going from $20 to $24 per unit. 
Another new addition to the summer 
^session is a program designed to enable 
prospective students to get a better idea of 
how to choose a college.
We were forced to increase the per-unit 
cost for a number of reasons, said William 
Elliot, Vice Provost for Enrollment Plan
ningThe summer programs (Pre-College, 
Advanced Placement, etc.) must be selfsufficient. We receive no additional funds 
I from endowments or any other source. The 
cost for salaries must be completely borne 
by the education fees paid by the 
students.
Even though the cost of these fees 
have gone up, they are, when compared to 
the regular cost per unit, lower by six dol
lars. We do this for two reasons. First, so 
that we can encourage a good number of 
regular CMU students to take courses dur
ing the summer, and secondly, we feel that
these lower costs are such that a student 
can have an excellent exposure to college, 
and more specifically, CMU without risking 
too much in both time and money, Elliot 
said.
A program that should have a major 
impact on future CMU students is one 
which Dean Allen Strehler considers his 
baby. Each year many students go off to 
school not because its right for them, but 
rather because Thevve got a good foot
ball team, or they wish to get away from 
home or their boy or girl friend is going 
some place. every year large numbers of 
college students, half way through their 
first semester or year, discover that this 
particular school is not right for them.
However, Mr. Elliot, following the 
words of Adam Smith, found an econ
omic need and then proceeded to fill it.
This summer for a one week period, 
CMU will offer the first College Advisor
Piogram in the country, which is designed 
to enable students to judge what is import
ant to them in choosing a school. This year 
the program will be directed to the child
ren of Alumni.
This idea remains uppermost in the re
cruiting departments as the number of stu
dents declines and the costs of education 
rise.
8 tartan
February 18, 1975 Volume 75 Number 18
Now Senate Reps to Come 
from Academic Departments
Cooking in the dorms-for how long?photo by Frank Stein
Williams Advocates 
"Make Accountable" Policy
by Bruce Lindsay
Dean Williams intends to enforce the 
Housing regulation of no cooking in dorm 
rooms as part of his make accountable 
policy. Several individuals have already 
been reported for using hotplates and broil
ers in their rooms.
The official policy regarding student 
cooking is that cooking is to be confined to 
areas designated by the Housing manager. 
Dean Williams cited wiring deficiencies, 
sanitation, garbage disposal, theft of Food 
Service utensils and fire codes as reasoning 
for his decision. Moreover, Housing is not 
prepared for the needs of student cooking. 
Presently, cooking is allowed only in utility 
rooms and the SDC kitchen in Morewood. 
The utility rooms are equipped with the 
same wiring as the dorm rooms and there
fore constitute the same fire hazards. That 
leaves designated kitchens as the only facil
ities for students. To alleviate congestion 
and crowding, Dean Williams has ordered 
the installation of two more kitchensone 
in Morewood by the Housing office and 
one in Donner Hall, both of which are to 
be completed soon.
The students in Morewood are irate over 
the new policy. The present facilities are
inadequate to their needs. One floor had 
over 15 students off contract and only one 
hot plate. Students cited quality and ex
pense as reasons for cooking in their 
continued on page 5
by Charles Mitch
Effective next election, rep
resentation in Student Senate will be 
based upon college rather than living 
areas. In the February 12 meeting. Sen
ate rejeted an amendment that would 
have changed the basis for Senate con
stituencies back to living areas. At this 
same meeting, Dean Swank announced 
the room and board prices for next 
year.
The amendment, authored by Dave 
Groupe, would have changed representa
tion back to the previously used categories 
(Graduate, UFO, Dormitory, Independent 
and Commuter). Groupe urged passage of 
the amendment because he felt there was 
danger of the frats flooding Senate as one 
voting block. This would be possible un
der the system to go into effect, where frat 
members could dominate representation 
from each college. Groupe pointed out the 
danger in such a voting block exists be
cause the main purpose of Senate has
been the allocation of funds for social ac
tivities.
those opposed to the amendment felt 
that Senate in the past has been too social
ly oriented. The new system of representa
tion would enable Senate to become more 
involved with a students educational as 
Well as social needs, they argue. Proponents 
replied that this would interfere with the 
function of the Student Advisory Commit
tees (SACs). Opponents to the amendment 
argued that Senate would be compliment
ary. not a hinderance to the SACs.Dean Swank, when asked to comment,
stated that the recent representation 
scheme (based on residence areas) has lead 
to a more active Senate than during periods 
of academic representation. The problem is 
certain colleges tend not to become in
volved with Senate.
The amendment was defeated by a vote 
of 14-10-3 (3i vote was needed to amend 
Senates bylaws). This means representa
tion in the future will be based upon colcontinued on page 5
Watergate Editor Discusses Politics of Co-operation
by Lisa Gordon
A great deal has been made of inves
tigative reporting and the need seems to 
rise or diminish as to the forthrightness of 
public officials. This statement was made 
by Barry Sussman, the former special 
Watergate Editor to the Washington Post. 
Sussman is now working on computerized 
public surveys for the Post.
Last Thursday night, Sussman came to 
CMU to speak in a lecture called Unravel
ling the Great Cover-Up, the first in a 
series of five symposiums on Modern 
American Journalism.
Im not going to be filling you with 
any disclosures, Sussman said wryly as he 
stepped up to the podium. The astute aud
ience laughed. Im going to stay away 
from the economic ramifications of inves
tigating Government corruption and talk
about Watergate and the two-party sys
tem.
He spoke of co-operation and rescue 
politics. Nixon is known as a man of 
vengance and retaliation-creator of an 
enemies list. Sussmans thesis was essen
tially that all the innocuous people like 
celebrities and large contributors to the 
McGovern campaign were on the list, while 
(ironically) all the really dangerous people 
were on his side. These, he implied, were the 
Democrats who refused to recognize the 
inconsistencies in the Watergate testimon
ies and the tapes. He said that certain Dem
ocratic Congressmen received political 
favors by siding with Nixon. This he called 
the politics of co-operation. Only enough 
of them have to do this to damage the 
system, said Sussman.
When the floor was opened to que&- 
continued on page 5Bar'v Sussman photo Courtney Larson

---------------------------------------------------

]
Page 2-THE TARTAN-February 18, 1975
editors note
POWER?
We are students without teachers... We study, but we 
are not taught...No one will admit that we are the real 
foundation of the university. This statement was spoken at 
Ortega y Gassets graveside when his Spanish students paid 
tribute to him in 1956. The voice of the student has cried in 
varying degrees of loudness in the past fifteen years. As the 
students of the 70s have become tired of crying out and 
getting no answer, students have stopped demanding and 
screaming; as a result, students are no longer heard. As the 
major segment of the university campus, students are often 
not consulted on those matters which affect their life within 
the university.
Although students are led to believe that they exercise 
power through representatives on various committees, are the 
representatives truly participating in the decision-making 
process or are they biding time as token members of the 
committee?
When the H&SS dean-search committee recently 
recommended three candidates for the position, the 
committee attempted to include students in the decision 
making process. Vicki Stein, the one student representative, 
left in January and was never replaced. / blame the SAC 
committee for never replacing Ms. Stein and / blame the 
search committee for not stressing the importance of student 
input. Commenting on student participation in the decision, 
committee chairman Peter Stearns said the attempt to 
include students flopped. Even with a student 
representative, that students power was minor because the 
student representative could not vote. / wonder if numerous 
other committees who will be searching for a Drama Head, 
Science Dean, and Music Head consider students to be 
valuable members of their committees.
Someone recently told me that although he felt the new 
committee to re-evaluate athletics was trying to look 
honestly at the pros and cons of CMU athletics, the 
administration may have already decided about major and 
minor sports. Its good psychology to make the students feel 
they are taking an active part in deciding about university 
affairs, but playing games with our involvement in issues is 
wrong.
And we all know tenure decisions are out of the 
students reach. Student opinion counts very little when the 
decision to hire and fire professors comes up. Student 
comments carry little weight. No students sit on committees 
to study whether a teacher is re-appointed or given tenure.
Thus far, / have cited examples which point to the 
minor part played by students in the university. / was 
recently on a committee of students to question three 
prospective candidater to head Security. / commend the 
administration for listening to the student recommendations; 
the students candidate was chosen for the job. Still, / would 
like to know how much the administration really considered 
the student suggestions. The students never met with the 
administration to discuss the decision. Rather, the student 
committee handed in written ideas; no opportunity to discuss 
these ideas was provided. / would like to have exchanged 
thoughts with the administrations committee in order to see 
how they arrived at their decision.
Students are taught management, psychology, and 
systematic thinking. With that much background, we deserve 
more say regarding the operation of our university. We 
should be allowed to apply our knowledge to university 
activities. If we are not given the opportunity to be more 
than token members of committees, our knowledge will be 
wasted. Ive heard that administrators and professors often 
comb through the TARTAN to gain insight into student 
impressions. Although the TARTAN can be a viable medium 
for communication, / suggest that some of these professors 
and administrators try a more direct approach; merely 
consider what the student has to say and invite the students 
to meetings.
We must see results form these meetings. Decisions to 
fire and hire should not come as a surprise to students. We 
must be actively consulted so we too, can learn. Only this 
way does Carnegie-Mellon admit that we are the real 
foundation of the university.
Debbie Siegel
letters
Editor:
I would like to clarify a point 
Mr. Singer made in his news com
ment February 11, 1975. Over 
the years the Oakland Review 
has continually sought to im
prove the appearance of the mag
azine itself and to exercise in
creasing selectivity in the work 
accepted. We have achived 
through our efforts a medium of 
creative expression unmatched in 
quality anywhere in the state, 
and one that invites comparison 
on a national level. It has been 
both a delicate and painstaking 
effort, but the product has been
well worth the struggle: We have 
for the first time since the con
ception of the magazine created 
a medium so finely honed that it 
has ceased to be a viable outlet 
for the average (as Mr. Singer 
states it)  ... campus writers 
desire for publication ... It is a 
natural consequence of our ef
fort since quality has always en
tailed a continual refinement.
I hope that this clarification 
of policy helps to stem the enor
mous influx of poorly contrived 
art that floods this desk week
ly. The TARTAN should be com
mended for its laudable efforts 
to publish creative works, as this 
campus is in definite need of just 
such an outlet. In continuing 
your efforts, giving writers an op
portunity to get into print, you 
create a pool of writers from 
which the Oakland Review can 
choose its contributors and staff.
Cynthia Baines 
Editorial Advisor, 
Oakland Review 1
Editor:
The University Disciplinary 
Committee has asked me to in
form the campus community 
through the pages of the TAR
TAN of a series of actions it has 
taken in connection with recent 
cases.
Three students from the Uni
versity appeared before the Com
mittee after they had voluntarily 
continued on page 3
Attention News Staff? There will not be 
a news meeting this week. The next meeting 
will be on March 5, at 7:30. New writers 
are always welcome.______________________
tartan
Editor-in-chief: Debbie Siegel ,
Managing Editor: Gary Singer
Business Manager: Lester Nathan
News Editor: Kevin Turcotte
Entertainment Editor: Mark Evan Chimsky 
Trapeze Editor: Greg McKenna
Photography Editor: John Shettel
Sports Editor: Dave Kanner
Features Editor: Kris Mamula
Staff Writers: Steven Correll, Sharon Curcio, James Fletcher, Dolores Foster, Fred Freedman, Roger Geddes, 
Dave Girdany, Lisa Gordon, Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell, Susan N. Klein, Cheryl Lawson, Claire Lee, 
John Mangano, Charles Mitch, Mike Pochan, Amy Reitmeyer, Dave Roussos, Paul Smith, John Spalding, Tom 
Schwartz, Chip Yeager, Lisa Zeidner.
Photographers: Richard Fisher, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson, Ed Levine, Dave Meeker, Elliot Popowitz, 
Rodman Reilly, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith
Business: Tony Fine, Tom Kendig, Arthur Silverberg
Art: Nancy Bink, Nonie Dempsey, Rachel Feinberg, Kitty Fischer, Mindy Maier
Layout and Typesetting: John Mangano, Ronnie Savion, Paula Strasser, Carl Grefenstette, Dave Groupe 
Jim Vlasic, Mary Kay Groupe
TI.3 Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers unfit 
for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Penn. 15213. 
Editorial offices are located in Skibo 50, Business office in Skibo 52. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus 
extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

news comment
THE TARTANFebruary 18, 1975 Page 3
CMi^
/$>
f'f NowS wo vwAy ena
tR (0
Zmcu .-II HotpMV 
pt>*
letters
continued from page 2
o *tt cdlfcje, -
icnt^uJC vnefo twTn^ out liMj lortfuief..
CMri^u>H0W
pe/ir//
confessed to the theft of tools, 
equipment and supplies from 
University properiy.
After verifying that the stu
dents had, in fact, been respon
sible for the removal of supplies, 
tools and University equipment 
totalling approximately $1000 in 
value, the Chairman of the Dis
ciplinary Committee notified the 
students that they were suspend
ed until such time as their cases 
could be heard. The suspension 
took place one week before the 
Disciplinary Committee con
vened to hear their cases.
The decision of the Commit
tee was to place the students on 
Disciplinary Probation for the re
mainder of their careers at the 
University, and require that they 
perform 400 hours of uncompen
sated service to the University to 
be completed before the close of 
the academic year, 1975-76.
The Committee originally 
considered expulsion or suspen
sion as the only appropriate Uni
versity sanctions because of the 
seriousness of the actions which 
had taken place. However, after 
taking into account the fact that 
the stolen materials had been 
returned to the University intact 
and that the men had voluntarily 
confessed their actions, it be
lieved it appropriate to seek a 
University sanction which, with
out denying the seriousness of 
the offense, would permit, the 
men to complete thir educa
tions at this institution.
This University cannot easily 
afford the loss of property or the 
removal of equipment essential 
to its program. The Disciplinary 
Committee continues to be con
cerned that theft of University 
property is assumed by some stu
dents to be merely a rip-off and 
of no significant consequence.
It is important for the univer
sity community to be aware that 
the Disciplinary Committee will 
respond with appropriate sanc
tions, including fines, the re
quirement of uncompensated ser
vice, suspension or expulsion, 
when the property, rights and 
privileges, or the security of the 
academic community have been 
violated.
Earle R. Swank. Chairman 
Disciplinary Committee
Editor:
I recently went to visit the 
Housing office. Like some fifty 
other kids, I had received a 
notice from them. I was told I 
had three initial choices. I could 
pay $90, I could move in with 
someone else, or someone could 
move in with me. Yes, Im one of 
the lucky ones, whose room
mate left early. Ive had a single 
for quite a while now.
Well, I wasnt and am not 
about to pay $90 to keep this 
room to myself. Jokingly, I 
asked Housing about the real 
reason they sent out the notices.
I expected to be told the ob
vious, that they wanted the extra 
90 bucks, and if they could get 
it, they would. Surprisingly, this 
wasnt the case. Instead, Housing 
told me that my having a single 
for the price of a double was 
unfair. Unfair to whom? Why, to 
the people who wanted singles.
This sounds reasonable. But 
for the sake of argument, lets 
assume Housing really isnt inter
ested in the money (as they 
claim). Thus the only issue is 
about fairness. But fair works 
both ways. What about us?
Housing expects us to 1) ac
cept a new roommate. A new 
roommate once the year has 
started can be harder than you 
might think. Its not the same as 
getting a new roomie at the start 
of the school year. W^hen school 
starts, youre psychologically set 
for the meeting, and the first few 
weeks involve compromising per
sonal habits. At this point, were 
set in our ways.
As another example, 
animosity could result between 
the original owner of the room 
and the new roommate. The for
mer might look upon the latter 
as an intruder.
Or you could 2) move into 
someone elses room. Both of 
you may have to go through the 
potentially painful adjusting pro
cess. Furthermore, if you move 
to a different floor, youre going 
to feel like a true foreigner.
' As I understand it, those 
people who asked for singles 
knew they couldnt be guaran
teed one. They arent suffering 
by not getting a single, because 
they don4 know what theyre 
missing.
Whereas those of us lucky 
ones, who had no control over 
the actions of their roommates, 
are being subjected to one big 
headache. This headache, with 
midterms approaching, could be 
quite detrimental to the student. 
If Housing isnt as greedy as they 
indicated, then I think some con
sideration of the unfortuante 
ones is in order. Lets be fair 
about this.
Name Withheld 
Upon Request
theMCAT
Review Seminar
Intensive Weekend 
Preparation 
for the May 3rd MCAT Taught by 
Practicing Physicians
The instructing Physician offers the 
prospective medical student a thorough 
analysis of the MCAT as well as an 
evaluation of the candidate s strengths 
and weaknesses Each sectkwi of the 
Test is extensively simulated and care
fully reviewed
Complete tuition, including matenals. is 
$5 00
State College April S A 6 
Philadelphia April 12 4 13 
Pittsburgh April 19 A 20
for further information 
Call collect 
814-435-6521
or write:
MCAT Review Center,
32 Grmercy Parte South 
New York. NT. 10003

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-^THE TARTANFebruary 18, 1975
announcements
Books and Calligraphy," a collection of 
handmade, hand-lettered volumes and 
matted works by Joan Goswell, is currently 
on display in the Hunt Library, CarnegieMelion University.
The public exhibition, Mrs. Goswell's 
first, will remain open without charge in 
the Fine Book Room between 1:30 and 
4:30 pm, daily through February.
Included in the colorful collection are 
illuminated poems of Carl Sandburg and 
e.e. cummings, the 29th Psalm, "The Haiku 
of Masaoka Shiki," and the Polish National 
Anthem framed in blue and silver.
Woman writers from all parts of Latin 
America, interested critics and scholars will 
come together on the Carnegie-Mellon 
University campus for an international con
ference on women and Latin American lit
erature. Mexican novelist and playwright 
Carlota O'Neill, niece of Eugene O'Neill, 
will speak on "Women's Struggle in Latin 
America." Ofelia Machado Bonet, Uru
guay's leading feminist will also participate, 
as well as novelists Elena Poniatowska of 
Mexico and Merceded Valdivieso of Chile. 
Reading from their poetry will be 
Teresinha Alves Pereira, also a playwright, 
who in 1972 won the Brazilian National 
Theatre Award; Iris Zavala and Olga 
Casanova-Sanchez of Puerto Rico; Angela 
de Hoyos, a Mexican-American poet and 
painter; and the Cuban poets Silvia Barros, 
Maya Islas, Mireya Robles and Gladys 
Zaldivar. There will be two special sessions: 
one on Afro-Cuban literature and one on 
Rosario Castellanos, Mexican author and 
ambassador to Israel who died in Tel Aviv 
last summer. In addition, there will be five 
other sessions devoted to the poetry and 
prose of Latin American women. Spon
sored by the Latin American Review and 
organized by CMU professors Yvette Miller 
and Jose L. Varela-lbarra, the conference 
will be held on Saturday and Sunday, 
March 15 and 16.
Free pregnancy testing, Monday -Saturday,
9-4. For information call 362-2920.
SOPHOMORESLearn how you can com
plete the normal four year ROTC program 
in just two years. Come see "That Summer 
in Kentucky," a documentary on the 
ROTC Two-Year Program Basic Camp, at 
4:30 pm February 20 in Margaret Morrison 
B-9.
The Military Science Departments of CMU
and the University of Pittsburgh announce 
their 1975 Army-Air Force Dinner Dance. 
The Dinner Dance is open to the campus 
communities of CMU and the University of 
Pittsburgh. Please contact the Military 
ScienceDept. for additional information.
LUNCHEON FORUM, jointly sponsored
by Campus Program Planning and the Ac
tivities Board. Professor Thomas Kerr will 
show and discuss the film Interview with
Hugo Black. Make sure you're there, Thurs
day, February 20 at 12:30 pm in the 
Wherrett Room. Bring your lunch.
The first annual Spring Carnival Drive
will be getting underway from March 10 
to April 10. Prizes will be free group ad
missions to 2001, a group picture with the 
Steelers, and trophy. This year's drive will 
be for multiple sclerosis. All groups are el
igible to compete. Competition is based 
on money collected for charity. For more 
information,-contact Larry Valery at 681* 
2684, Larry Kurzweil at 682-9211, or Fred 
Cohen at 683-6320.
Aerosols, spray cleaners, deoderants? It's
all in the spray-as Campus Program Plan
ning brings you Dr. James Anderson's dis
cussion and slides of "Crisis in the Atmos
phereozone." March 4 at 7:30 pm in the 
Wherrett Room.
Keep a finger in the pie with your Campus
Program Planning Calendar. Available at 
the Skibo Information Desk with ID.
A Bachelor of Science (BS) program is
available in History, Economics, Social 
Relations, Psychology, and English (Tech
nical Writing). The B.S. degree integrates 
skills in math and science with a broadbased liberal education in an H&SS major. 
For more information contact the appro
priate department or SAP. The student ad
visor program is in P.H. 17C, 621-2600 
ext. 8710, Mon.-Fri. 12:30-4:30.
The Professional Major Program is new in
H&SS to accentuate your degree in a 
specialized career area. Programs are offer
ed in management, early childhood, ele
mentary and secondary education, law, ver
bal and visual communication, data under
standing, French, German or Spanish 
technical translation and in the Arts. For 
more information contact SAP, Student 
Advisor Program in PH 17C Mon.-Fri. 
12:30-4:30, 621-2600, ext. 8710.
Are you aware of H&SS academic alter
natives? Stop by SAP, Student Advisor 
Program, Porter Hall 17C, Mon.-Fri. 
12:30-4:30 and explore your alternatives.
The National Poetry Press announces its
Spring Competition. The closing date for 
the submission of manuscripts by College 
Students is April 10. Any student attend
ing either junior or senior college is eligible 
to submit his verse. There is no limitation 
as to form or theme. Shorter works are 
preferred by the Board of Judges because 
of space limitations.
Each poem must be typed or printed on 
a separate sheet, and must bear the name 
and home address of the student, and the 
college address as well. Manuscripts should 
be sent to the Office of the Press, National 
Poetry Press, 3210 Selby Ave., Los 
Angeles, Calif. 90034.
Mary Jo Nye, department of the History of 
Science, University of Oklahoma, will 
speak on "The Moral Freedom of Man and 
the Determinism of Nature" on Wednes
day, February 19 at 4:30 pm in the pent
house of Hunt Library.
Pre-law seminar: A panel of CMU Alumni
who are practicing attorneys will discuss 
some of the many types of legal careers 
that are available today. Thursday, Feb
ruary 20, 7:30 pm in Breed Hall.
Open auditions for Beggar on Horseback, a 
comedy directed by Gary Hitch, will be 
held by the South Oakland Arts Council on 
Tuesday and Wednesday, February 25 and 
26 at 7:00 pm in the Paul Younqer Center, 
corner of Ward St. and the Blvd. of the 
Allies in Oakland. An early April produc
tion is planned.
Dr. David Geiger, this year's recipient of
the Dickson Prize Award in Science, will 
speak in the Wherrett Room at 5 pm on 
Thursday, February 20 on the subject 
"The Future of Buildings: Encapsulation 
of Space with Thermally Active Roofs." 
Following the Lecture, an exhibit of archi
tectural models of Dr. Geiger's work will 
be on display in the Hunt Botanical 
Library for one week.
FOUND in the College of Fine Arts:
Orange and white male kitten, about six 
months old. Call E.R. Schatz, ext. 513 or 
563.
The Pyramid Zen Society will sponsor a
lecture presented by Mr. Richard Rose, 
Zen lecturer and author, also founder of 
the Pyramid Zen Societies. The first lecture 
will be February 20 at the U. of Pittsburgh 
Student Union in the first floor dining 
room. The second at Carnegie-Mellon's 
Hunt Library in the Multi-purpose room on 
February 27. All lectures are free and begin 
at 8:00 pm.
Student Government Corporation is look
ing for a general director for 1975-76 of 
WRCT Radio 88.3 FM. If interested or 
experienced contact either Sue Christian 
x421 or Willie Thompson, 687-3024 prior 
to March 4.
Rich Coulter will perform in his senior
trumpet recital on Thursday, February 
20 at 8:30 p.m. in Exhibition hall, CFA. 
Works to include Haydn and Hindemith.
Volunteers are needed from all colleges to
work in a variety of placements that exist 
in and around Pittsburgh. Counselors, 
tutors, hospital aids, working with mental
ly retarded of all ages, rehabilitation, pro
bation, city planning, etc. Excellent oppor
tunity for course work, practicums or 
internships. Contact Ellie, ext. 277, 
Psychology dept.
Herschel Leibowitz, department of Psych
ology at Penn State will speak on "Inter
mediate Resting Point of Accomodation: A 
Demonstration of Laser Methodology" on 
Thursday, February 20 at 3:30 pm in 
Baker Hall 340A.
Classified
Want to pay your way through school? Sell
one policy per week and you'll earn 
approximately $4000 per year. Reply to 
TARTAN, giving name, phone number and 
address.
On February 17-22 Paintings and Prints by
Pam Bomba. Ellis Gallery, Fine Arts 
Building, 9-5 daily.
HP-35 for sale$150, price negotiable. Ask
for Dave Penner, 682-1474.
You can "conquer" Mexico in five weeks.
The Spanish took four semesters. Come 
talk to.Jose, Baker Hall 228C.
Female models needed for promotional 
campaign. Earn excellent salary in spare 
time. Send photo and resume to A&R 
Associates, P.O. Box 7220, Oakland 
Station, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
WANTED: Arts and crafts of all kinds for 
selling on consignment. Call 362-6562 
evenings.
Irish Setter pups, AKC, shots to date. Call 
521-0428.
Free pregnancy testing Monday through
Friday. Results confidential and available | 
the same day. For information contact 
Women's Health Services, Inc. 562-1900. 
For sale: Vasque rock boots, ladies size 8N,
beige suede, brand new. Call Tuesday, Wed
nesday, Thursday after 7 pm, 621-8786.summerineurope
65 DAY ADVANCE 
PAYMENT REQUIRED 
U.S. GOVT. APPROVED 
TWA PAN AM TRANSAVIA
707 707 707
CHARTERS 
LESS THAN
REG.
ECONOMY FARE
uni-travel charters 
CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-325-4867 
ENGINEERING GRADUATES
Which way to go?
Think about a technical sales 
career at Leeds & Northrup
Its tough to make a career decision when there 
are so many ways to go. That's why Leeds & 
Northrups recruiter wants to help you think things 
through and discuss the unusual opportunity avail
able to the engineer who goes into technical sales.
If you havent yet opted for the traditional engi
neering career, think about sales . . . technical 
sales. Its an area where you would be using your 
engineering skills to match the product to the 
problem and where you would have the chance 
to develop your ability to communicate with toplevel executives. You should be able to exhibit a 
degree of self confidence that is part of the pat
tern of a successful sales engineer.
MARCH 4 is the day our recruiter will be 
on your campus. Its the time for talk, not com
mitment, so if you want to find out what's involved 
in this kind of career option, arrange for an inter
view through your placement officer. If 
you cant make it on that date, write to us 
for more details. Write MANAGER, COL
LEGE RELATIONS:
LEEDS & NORTHRUP
SUMNEYTOWN PIKE 
NORTH WALES, PA. 19454 
(In suburban Philadelphia)
(215) 643-2000 
An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 18, 1975-Page 5
Uncovering 
' Watergate 
and its Pieces
continued from page 1
tions, Sussman answered the audience with 
candor and extreme composure. One ques
tion fait upon the criticism given to the 
Post when Bob Woodward and Carl Bern
stein, the two reporters who investigated 
the Watergate affair went to the Grand 
Jury for information during the criminal 
trial; Sussman called it an embarrassing sit
uation but there was no personal gain in 
it. The only gain was that the information 
was something that we could bring before 
the public.
Regarding whether he felt the Ford 
Administration was open, he said that Ford 
was more open-minded towards the press. 
But, citing the Presidents pardon of 
Richard Nixon (which was made public 
after the fact) Sussman remarked, at a 
time when people are skeptical of public 
officials, they watch what they do and not 
what they say. He again stressed the im
portance of the need for forthrightness in 
elected officials. It would be easy for re
porters to cover the news if this were al
ways the case.
Sussman, 40, is discerning and amiable. 
He was City editor of the Post at the time 
of the break-in at the Democratic National
Barry Sussman, former city editor of 
WASHINTON POST
Committee headquarters at the Watergate 
complex in June, 1972. He assigned Wood
ward (who was later joined by Bernstein) 
to cover the burglary, which ostensibly was 
nothing more than that. Even until Oc
tober 1972 we didnt know where the 
stories of Watergate were taking us, said 
Sussman.
illustration by Nancy Bink
In All the Presidents Men, Woodward 
and Bernstein write, In Sussmans mind 
everything fitted. Watergate was a puzzle 
and he was a collector of the pieces ... He 
was a walking compendium of Watergate 
knowledge. And he proved it to Thurs
days audience.
Bethlehem SteelsLOOP COURSE,
Management 
Training Program,
has opportunities for young men and women with 
technical and business backgrounds who wish to acquire 
the management skills to make them leaders in operations, 
shipbuilding, or mining management.
Our representatives will be here on
Mar. 6, 7 ______________
Let stalk about it.
|ITXI IM( ST U
An equal opportunity 
employer
Alternatives to Dorm Cooking
continued from page 1
rooms. They felt the lack of cleanliness and 
safety were more acute when they used the 
utility room rather than their own rooms. 
Youre going to keep your room cleaner 
than a filthy pigsty, commented one stu
dent.
The residents primarily question the al
ternatives to cooking in their rooms. 
Williams suggested go back on contract 
or eat at Winkys. Students raised the 
point that they may not be able to afford 
it. Williams said they should have consider
ed the rules before they went off contract 
and if they cant afford it, they should see 
Financial Aid. The only other alternative 
is to use the new kitchens, but even Dean 
Williams admitted to their inadequacies.
There is no connection between my 
policies and the drastic drop in food con
tracts, Williams said. He stated that the 
new policy is just part of his program to 
make students and employees accountable. 
I cant expect my people to clean up 
excessive amounts of garbage. Im not pas
sing off my responsibilities as Dean and no 
student should expect me to.SENATE
continued from page 1
lege and that a completely new Senate 
must be elected this spring.
Room and board prices for next year 
were also presented to Senate by Dean 
Swank. A double room with common bath 
will cost $775 while the 21-meal food con
tract will cost $800 for the school year. In 
each case the amount charged for the 
spring semester is less than in the fall, so as 
to attract more people to fill the empty 
spaces which traditionally open up in the 
spring.
NEED HELP 
planning an H&SS education?
Upperclass students are 
available for information and 
advice.
The Student Advisors Program 
PH 17C, 12:30-4:30, Mon-Fri 
or call 621-2600 x8710
Ecology , e re working on Ml
During I he past 14 years Clitf s 
Notes has used over 2.400.000 tons 
of paper using recycled pulp
More than 200 titles 
available at:
WALDENBOOKS 
Allegheny Shopping Center 
Pittsburgh
HeadFood
eiiff s Notes help you think for 
yourself in literature They re
written Dy experts
to guide you in 
understanding and 
appreciating con
temporary and 
classic novels, 
plays and poems

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-February 18,1975
Corsmi Presents History of Photography
by Ed Levine
Harold Corsini, Adjunct Professor in the 
Design Department, with the help of over 
150 slides, presented a comprehensive over
view of the History of Photography on 
Tuesday, February 11 in the Wherrett 
Room. The slides, from the collection of 
the George Eastman House, covered a per
iod of over 400 years from the simplest 
camera obscura to modern masters such as 
Ansel Adams and Minor White.
The First method of, reproducing an 
event with the aid of light sensitive mater
ial was the Daguerreotype, first introduced 
to the public in 1837. Louis Daguerres 
process produced a unique positive of very 
high quality on a copper plate. The immed
iate success of the Daguerreotype was 
apparant. The portrait, once a luxury only 
attainable by the aristocracy, was now in 
the grasp of the middle class. Long ex
posures of up to fifteen minutes did not 
deter thousands from having their pictures 
taken.
Mr. Corsini then described a number of 
other processes that followed the Dag
uerreotype. Henry Fox Talbot developed 
the first negative with his callotype pro
cess. The wet plate system, developed in 
1852, produced a glass negative that ren
dered high quality positives. The method 
most similar to the process used today was
introduced in 1870 and was called the dry 
plate process. ^
The uses of photography became as di
verse as the processes available to the 
photographer. Photographs were used to 
illustrate books, as an aid to artists, and in 
business. Most importantly, photography 
recorded people and events as was never 
done before. In 1888, George Eastman sold 
his first Kodak and the era of amateur 
photography began.
Photography became the primary med
ium for documentary and journalism pur
poses. Because of the influence of people 
such as Alfred Stieglitz and Edward 
Steichen, it .also made inroads into the 
world of art.
The number of people who have made 
important contributions to photography 
since the turn of the century is large. Their 
styles have ranged from the romanticized, 
delicate images of Robert Demachy to the 
stark realism of Dorthea Lange.
Mr. Corsini ended his lecture with the 
work of several contemporary photograph
ers. Unfortunately, he did not include 
work done by todays so-called avant garde 
photographers such as Emmet Gowin and 
Diane Arbus. He also didnt include any 
commercial photography which he, as a 
commercial photographer, is all too 
familiar with.
UFO Denied 
Senate Funds
by Amy Reitmeyer
AB Members Attend NEC
by Marianne Vakiener
Tha annual National Entertainment 
Convention was held February 8-12 in 
Washington, D.C. Four Activities Board 
members, Patty Aemi, Chairperson; Dorina 
Spelman, Coffeehouse; Chuck Monheim, 
Concerts, Marianne Vakiener, Lectures, 
and Sue Christian, Director of Student Ac
tivities, met with approximately 2500 
other student and professional program
mers, agents and artists during the five-day 
convention.
The purpose of the NEC is to help stu
dents learn to program effectively and 
wisely through workshops run by profes
sional activities persons and to provide an
opportunity to meet and talk with repre
sentatives from various agencies and per
formers. During the convention, there were 
also film screenings and showcases in which 
different types of entertainment such as 
comedians, folk singers, jazz and bluegrass 
were displayed.
Commenting on the usefulness of the 
convention, Dorina Spelman stated that 
there were a lot of fine entertainers rep
resented there but due to our low budget, 
the majority were out of our price range. 
Talking with other students, I was shocked 
to find that the amount of money they 
receive relative to the number of students 
was, in many cases, much greater than at 
CMU.
Check our competitive prices on oil
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS MODELS
Texas Instrument 
~149ts SR50
NOW * 1 1 9 '97PHILIP S. WIENER
229 Atwood Street Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 Tel. (412) 683-0313
The Finance Committee has again 
refused to allocate a budget for the Unified 
Fraternal Organization. The annually recur
ring issue was voted upon at the end of last 
semesters Student Senate session.
UFO submitted a budget amounting to 
approximately $1000. The budget was mis
named by the Finance Committee as ex
clusively Greek Sing money. They explain
ed that it would eliminate confusion and 
save time in discussing the itemized finan
cial plan. Though it is true that Greek Sing 
accounted for a large portion of the funds 
requested, other UFO activities were in
cluded, such as the UFO Homecoming 
Dance and the Watermelon Bash.
UFO then turned to the Programming 
Fund which gave money for Greek Sing 
last year. They were granted one-half of 
the amount they requested. The rest of the 
money will come from fraternity member 
assessments.
UFO feels entitled to Student Senate 
funds as do other student organizations 
sponsoring events open to the campus 
community. Members of the Greek system
won vanonnen photo by Mark Segal
UFO President
pay the $12.50 Activities Fee as well as 
social fees to UFO. Student Senate argued 
that the Greek system is a closed campus 
organization and should therefore come up 
with their own money.
Student Senate particularly objects to 
providing money for Greek Sing because 
proceeds from Greek Sing are donated to 
charity. Senate feels that the proceeds 
gained from admission fees to the perform
ance should be used to pay for renting 
Carnegie Music Hall, rather than tapping 
other money sources to make money for 
charity.
RICHIE HAVENS and BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN 
& THE E STREET BAND
February 20, 8 p.m. at the Syria Mosque 
$3.00 with Student ID
Tickets on sale at Skibo Information Desk
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS.....................................................7:00 P.M.  Tech House
SUNDAY MASS...........................10:30 A.M.  Science Hall (Rm. 7500)
WEEKDAY MASSES ........................................................................Tech House
(M thru F5:00 P.M.) (T. Th8:00 A.M.) (W,F12 NOON)
Lenten Prayer ServiceTues. 7:30 P.M. at Tech House
The Community House is the Tech House *5125 Margaret Morrison
WIENER WILL NOT BE UNDERSOLD!!!

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 18, 1975-Page 7
people can see what can be done with 
animation, then they can create new means 
to achieve greater heights than those ach
ieved in the past. With the news forecasts 
of upcoming depression, there could be, in 
destitution, the kind of cultivating environ
ment that instigated young people of the 
20s and 30s to study and recreate anima
tion.
summerneurope
65 DAY ADVANCE 
PAYMENT REQUIRED 
U S GOVT APPROVED 
TWA PAN AM TRANSAVIA
70/ 707 707
CHARTERS 
LESS THAN
J/2
ECONOMY FARE
707 707 uni-travel charters
CALL TOLL FREE 1-800 325 4867 
NEW LOW PRICES
FOR STUDENTS* & FACULTY*
XEROX COPY PRICES;
I - 5 - 6</copy
6  10 - 3 C/copy
II - 15 -2C/copy 
16 - Up -1/C/copy
100 copies cost SI.83 
(OF SAME ORIGINAL)
Ask for o quote on 
large volume jobs.
Expert Typing Available on IBM 
Selectric Typewriters
OFFSET PRINTING PRICES: 
100 Copies -S3.50 
Each additional 100 - 90C
1000 Copies-SI 1.60 
Each additional 100- 80<
2000 Copies -S 19.60 
Above 5000 each additional 
100 Copies  70C
The Development 
of Greek Drama
by Gaire Lee
Almost 100 persons attended the 
lecture on ancient and modern Greek 
theatre on February 6. Professor Baker 
Salsbury introduced Mr. Takis Mouzanidas 
(Director of the Greek National Theatre) 
with references to his impressive direction 
of numerous plays throughout the world. 
This was his second visit to Pittsburgh.
The lecture that ensued continued for 
an hour. The main subject was the develop
ment of Greek drama: its religious origin, 
its later height of popularity, its revival 
during the Renaissance, and finally its 
modern dramatizations during the twen
tieth century. Mr. Mouzanidas dealt with 
the many aspects of each development 
perioddramatic structure, action, set, 
props, etc.
The lecture continued with a slide show 
which reinforced in the audiences mind his 
professionalism and uniqueness in dramatic 
direction. His productions were very varied 
in style; some were elaborate, some styl
ized, and others very simple. They were 
usually presented before audiences of 15 to 
16 thousand people.
With no parting questions from the aud
ience, the lecture ended amidst polite 
applause. The 200 prepared seats (only half 
filled) were soon empty.
There was one major weakness which 
plagued the presentation and left many 
people dissatisfied, i.e. the lecture was to a 
great extent incomprehensible. As one stu
dent stated, You can see the brilliance [of 
Mouzanidas] but... The speakers for
eign accent was very strong and noticeable. 
Moreover, he read consistently from a oneinch stack of papers. He did not help mat
ters with his monotone voice. Some people 
commented that You got nothing out of 
him. A sense of boredom seemed to per
vade as some people were waiting for the 
conclusion by examining the Ballroom or 
by simply dozing off.
What stuck in my memory was one 
phrase which Mr. Mouzanidas emphasized 
in his presentation. He stated that speech 
is the cornerstone of the play. In this 
respect, his CMU performance was a 
great disappointment. The knowledge pre
sented in his speech and the impressions 
received from the slides strongly suggested 
his excellence in dramatic direction; at the 
same time, they confirmed his many weak
nesses as an English speaker.
COPY CAT
QUICK COPY CENTER
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
683-8040
* MUST PRESENT OFFICIAL 
I.D. CARDS
Clampett Enlightens Bugs Bunny Fans
BOOK BINDING PRICES: 
Composition Cover - S1.50 
Paper Cower -S . 85C 
Hard Cover - S4.00crisis in the atmosphere OZONE
DR. JAMES ANDERSON 
UNIVERSITY OF 
PITTSBURGH
SLIDES AND DISCUSSION 
TUESDAY, MARCH 4, 7:30 
WHERRETTROOM 
SPONSORED BY: 
CAMPUS PROGRAM 
PLANNING
photos by Larry Denberg
a new approach to cartoons. As Clampett 
admits, no matter how much we want to 
try and retreat to the greats of the 40s and 
the 50s, we cannot regress, but progress. 
This progression is left up to contemporary 
cartoonists and their proteges.
The cartoons of recent years have been, 
as Clampett says, carbon copies of one 
another. This duplication is the most ob
vious result of the stagnation of cartoon
ing. Yet, Clampett still has much hope in
the industry. When the right cartoonists 
show up, and the right ideas in characters 
happen, the cartoons will spring, one from 
the loins of another, and there will be a 
resurrection of the dying medium.
Clampett says that the re-releasing of 
some of the old cartoons may be very 
instrumental in this rebirth. For, if young
tions and got some very perceptive insights. 
When asked to discuss, to some extent, the 
development of the viewing audience of 
cartoons from their early stages to the pre
sent, Clampett responded that early in the 
era if cartooning, they had been acknow
ledged as a form of entertainment compar
able to the full length feature film. The 
audience included adults as well as children 
and all age groups were urged subtly into 
an awareness of human and social moral
ities, ethics and goals. Over the years, how
ever, the realism in cartoons, the exag
geratedly moral nature of cartoon 
characters and the sermon-like approach to 
ethical announcements insulted the intel
ligence of more and more adults. As you 
may well know, the success of cartoons 
peaked during the Depression years, when 
Americans couldnt afford the more expen
sive forms of entertainment, but often 
could scrounge a few coins to see a cartoon 
and a movie on the weekends. After these 
years of hardship, many adults returned to 
the opera houses and the theaters, and the 
amount of cartoon character devotees de
clined sharply. This drop plus the evolution 
of cartooning that had begun to take place 
confirmed the unstable status of the car
toon media that still exists in America. Mr. 
Clampett assured me, nonetheless, that 
there is still hope for the art of animation, 
but not as we may know it. Because of the 
degeneration so obvious in comparison of 
cartoons of the 40s and the cartoons of 
the 70s, there needs to be, in this industry,
brought his charming wife Sody, a puppet 
or two, films and an exhibit of character 
cells. In two presentations, an informal one 
at 4:00 in the Wherrett Room in Skibo, 
and a formal one at 8:00 in the Ballroom, 
he allowed students to view some cartoons, 
gave insight to the technical and visual as
pects of cartooning, and welcomed 
students questions.
In an unofficial interview, this reporter 
raised a few previously unanswered quesby Cheryl Lawson
On Monday, February 11, our campus 
was graced with the imaginative genius of 
Bob -Clampett, creater of Bugs Bunny, 
Beanie and Cecil and numerous other fam
iliar cartoon characters. With him he

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-February 18, 1975
Chatham Ski Clubs went to Stowe, Ver
mont. For the lowest possible rate of $130, 
which included air fare, transportation to 
the slopes, room and board, they indulged 
in downhill and cross-country skiing and a 
lot of partying.
CMU students for the most part respect 
their pocketbooks, the CMU Ski Club 
feels an obligation to offer a cheaper al
ternative, said Mike Baum, club president.
The Ski Club has grown, said Baum, 
not in the actual number of people but in
news briefs
SPECIAL PRIZE
David Geiger, a structural engineer, has 
won the 1974 Dickson prize, a $10,000 
award which Carnegie-Mellon presents an
nually to persons who have done outstand
ing scientific or engineering work in the 
U.S. for the year which the award is pre
sented.
Geiger is known internationally as a 
pioneer in the design of largespan, airsupported structures. Professor Steven J. 
Fenves, head of CMLPs Department of Civil 
Engineering, said Dr. Geiger is being honor
ed with the Dickson prize in recognition 
of his pioneering development of a new 
structural form, combining innovations in 
structural engineering, materials and archi
tectural space use.
WOMEN
The Womens Collective is sponsoring an 
informal talk on Women in the Media. 
Ms. Linda Goldstein, Special Assistant in 
Human Resources for Commissioner 
Staisey will lead the discussion. In the past 
Ms. Goldstein has worked as a production 
assistant for KDKA, a political writer for 
WQED and the Pittsburgh Press. While ob
taining a BA at Pitt, Linda was editor of 
the Pitt News in her senior year; she also 
holds a Masters Degree in Communications 
from Boston University.
The duscussion will be at 7 pm on Wed
nesday, February 19 in room 11 of Skibo. 
Everyone is welcome, refreshments will be 
served._________________________________
Bringing in a supersonic jet on a 10.000 ft. cement runway is tough 
enough. But landing one on a 500 ft. piece of a carrier deck, moving at 
25 knots, is even tougher. Only a few men are good enough to do it. And 
they're all Navy trained. How can you become a member of the Naval Air 
team7 One way is to join while youre still in college. One of the advantages 
of being part of the Aviation Reserve Officer Candidate (AVROC) Program 
is that it lets you continue.working toward your degree.
Getting your Navy Wings isnt easy. The training is tough. The least 
that will be expected of you is the best that other pilots can do. Their limits 
are your starting blocks, their expertise your primer. But if you succeed, 
your future is assured whether you remain in the Navy or not.
For more information.
SINGLE COPIES
MULTIPLE COPIES
1 st Copy.............
2-50 Copies.........
51 or more copies
HP-45 SCIENTIFIC PROBLEM 
SOLVER WITH A MEMORY
 B Singers, musicians,
dancers, technicians
novelty acts . . . 
it takes all kinds of 
talent to entertain Cedar Point's 2,500,000 summer 
guests, and the search is on. So, check the audition 
schedule, polish up your act and come show us your 
talent. Technicians, come for an interview with Cedar 
Point's Live Shows. YOU'LL COME ALIVE IN '75!
 Hand-held with 44 pre-program
med functions and 9 memory re 
gisters
 Trig functions in degrees, radi 
ans or grads
 Metric/U.S. unit conversion con 
stants
AUDITION AND INTERVIEW SCHEDULEHP-35 ENGINEERS 
CALCULATOR STORES 
ANSWERS
Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania  Fri . February 28. 1975 Detroit, Michigan  Thurs . March 6. 1975
Carnegie-Mellon University, Student Activities Center Pone hart ram Hotel. Plaza Room
Interviews  3:OOP.M. Auditions 4:00 P M Interviews 3:00 P.M Auditions--4:00 P.M
Sandusky. Ohio  Sat.. March 8. 1975(Areas East of SanduskyI
Cedar Point Centennial Theatre
Interviews  10:00 A M Auditions  1 1:00 A M
Indianapolis. Indiana  Sun . March 2. 1975
Stouffer's Indianapolis Inn, Ballroom 
Interviews  3:00 PM Auditions  4:00 PM
 Hand-held with pre-programmed 
functions from basic math to logarithmics and pi
 register memory stack
 Single keystroke functions
Sandusky. Ohio  Sun . March 9. 1975(Areas West of Sandusky)
Cedar Point Centennial Theatre
Interviews10:00 A M Auditions11:00 A M.
Cincinnati. Ohio  Tues March 4. 1975
Stouffer's Cincinnati Inn. Bronze Room 
Interviews - 4:00 P M Auditions 5:00 P M
Live Show Dept., Cedar Point, Sandusky, Ohio 44870
Prices effective immediately
ON LAKE ERIE, SANDUSKY, OH*
Available at the Carnegie-Mellon Bookstore
SKI!
by Lisa Gordon
Skiing is in vogue. In fact, skiing is so 
the thing to do that thousands of Amer
icans each spend on the average, between 
$5 and $12 a day on a lift ticket. Because
terms of the amount of enthusiasm of its 
members and the types of activities the 
Club offers. At the meetings, ski films are 
shown and night ski trips to Seven Springs 
are offered to members and non-members 
for a nominal fee which includes transportaion, lift ticket, rentals and refreshments 
on the bus.
For a week during Christmas vacation, 
21 students from the combined CMULearn to land a jet 
here and you can land one 
anywhere.

---------------------------------------------------

4
February 18, 1975Page 9
photo by John Shettel

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
Page 10- February 18,1975
We 
deervdew
wdh
Nelson 
Max
Assistant Professor Nelson Max, a member of the MIS 
faculty since 1972, is probably best known for his 
animated film, Space Filling Curveswhich explains 
mathematically why some patterns will, when repeated 
over and over, eventually fill up a given area while other 
patterns won 7.
The film is, wholly apart from the mathematics, a 
great visual trip. And the entire animation was compu
ter-generated It won the top prize at the 17th Inter
national Festival of Scientific-Didactic Film at Padua, 
Italy and another prize from the Council on Inter
national Nontheatrical Events.
In the fall of 1973, Max taught a class of art and 
design students-along with some interested engineering 
and science students-how to use CMUs IBM 360 to 
design graphics. The TARTAN interviewed him to find 
out how well this interdisciplinary course worked, and 
whether it managed to serve both groups of students 
simultaneously.
by Steven Correll
Q: There are certainly a lot of topologists who never 
touch computer graphics. How did you get started?
A: Well, I started out in topology and did a very 
abstract thesis. Then I saw this article in Scientific Amer
ican in 1966 on how to turn a sphere inside out, and I 
thought that would be fun to make a movie out of. I 
made a proposal to the NSF and I got a grant. It turned 
out to be a longer and bigger project than I originally 
anticipated, and Im not done yet, almost two years late.
Ive gradually changed inside my own head, realizing 
that Im doing this instead of pure mathematics, and sort 
of committed myself to it, so that I am in a sense giving 
up pure mathematics, slowly admitting that to myself.
Q: How did you get started teaching people who 
arent mathematicians or computer experts?
A: Well, here I was making mathematical movies that 
turned out to look pretty enough so that artists turned 
out to be interested in them.
The other thing has to do with why you get kicks 
from teaching. You get kicks by turning people on to 
your thing, and the collection of potential people who 
have never been turned on to your thing before is richer 
if you go outside the field youre in and get a whole pile 
of people who never thought of it before.
Q: In your computer graphics classes, you mix people 
whove never been exposed to computers before with 
people who know a lot about them ...
A: Right, that was one of the problems last time. I 
had advertised the class as not requiring any computer 
experience, and on the first day I tried to scare away the 
people who knew what they were doing by telling them 
it would be very boring. But of course, I didnt succeed 
in discouraging all of them, and there were a number of 
people in engineering and math... who had enough 
background that they could really get into the sophis
ticated stuff. It was unsuccessful to a certain extent in 
that I scared away a number of Fine Arts people I 
wanted to reach because they saw the pace of the course 
increasing. This year I have fewer experts, and I think 
Im going to succeed in going a little slower.
Q: Im interested in whether the students from dif
ferent backgrounds interact once you put them together. 
Do people in the class get fascinated by the mathematphoto by John Shettel
...and Im a big fish in the small pond that 
is the computer graphics field. 
ical ability to, say turn a figure, or do they just use it as 
a tool to express what they feel?
A: Oh, its both. They come up with some very 
interesting ideas about what they want to do. Thats 
whats finest, to make a final project where the original 
definition of what I expect them to do is vague enough 
that they can go off and do whatever they are interested 
in, and some nice things come out of that.
Q: But do they get fascinated by the mathematics?
A: Some of them do, some of the more mathemat
ically experienced ones; and some of the others got 
involved last time in using random numbers and seeing 
what unpredictability could bring in. I think that they 
react essentially the same way that I did, which is with a 
sense of power, that they can with their cleverness get
computer better than I doI normally work with the 
PDP-lOs in the Computer Science departmentso that 
they help each other... I dont mind asking a student 
to give a little talk on some aspect of the computer if he 
knows something I dont know.
Theres one disappointment there, which is that 
some kids last time whod didnt have experience with 
the computers but who could have grasped the concepts 
got turned off because of the hassles with getting things 
in and out of the 360 ... we had the same problem 
with RSTS. It was three weeks into the semester before 
we got valid numbers for the students to start using the 
system. I wouldnt mind seeing that frustration ex
pressed in print. Its such a shame that a university that 
has all these fancy toys cant get it together so the 
students can get on them and play.
The first time I taught the course I used WATF1V 
because the turnaround time was good and the diagnos
tics were good. We didnt have the money for TSS 
anyway.
But WATFIV cant talk to the plotter, so to get the 
pictures out they had to use FORTRAN, and they had 
to use an output file, andwhats that thing? 
TYPESET to print the file on the terminal with the 
plotter connected. The files would get frozen and it was
"Computer graphics just sort of fits in the cracks between various disciplines, and that's 
certainly not something to make it easy to get tenure in any one department."
the machine to produce these elaborate pictures.
One aspect of programming is that if you make a 
program complex enough, you can sometimes get out of 
it things you didnt predict. Sometimes the mistakes are 
pretty. I havent kept a lot of it, but some of the nicest 
footage I got was not what I planned to get.
Q: And what about the technical people? Do they get 
curious and try to find out from the artists things about 
aesthetics?
A: No, I guess because Ive never emphasized aesthet
ics; Ive never brought anyone in to talk about it. I was 
having a discussion at lunch today with one of the Art 
teachers, and he wanted to pin me down on the meaning 
of art. One of the things we differ in was that he thought 
that to be art something had to involve human feeling or 
human images, while I can get turned on by abstract 
stuff and the mathematics of it, where mathematics is 
used in the wider sense, meaning structure ... That I 
think can be interesting to artists, but thats the extent 
of the aesthetics that I deal with: a sort of thinking that 
doesnt involve representation.
Battling the 360 
Q:I spoke to one student who took Physics of 
Musical Sound, an interdisciplinary course taught by Dr. 
Schumacher from the Physics department; he told me 
that, interestingly enough, from the first day onward all 
the artists sat on one side of the classroom and all of the 
technical people on the other. Is there much interaction 
between the cultures in your courses"
A: My class this time isnt all that big, really. Actual
ly, the interaction is that some of the kids know this
just an incredible hassle. Some people did incredible 
work, and Im really happy with it, but some of the best 
work was done by people who had access to other 
timesharing systems, APL or TSS ...
Q: Youve done a lot of work on the Graphics Won
ders (See last weeks TARTAN article, Computer Cor
poration Formed, for a description of the G.W.) and 
the other fancy stuff they have on the PDP-10 B. Your 
students really kind of eat off the floor in that respect, 
because all the public computation center gives them is a 
choice of two plotters anddo they have any kind of 
video terminal at all?
A: Yes, theyre locked up in a special room because 
students hacked at them when they were open to the 
public, and its a matter of getting permission to use 
them. Its a matter of finances and politics within the 
University. Actually, a number of the students with 
mathematical backgrounds who took my course man
aged to find jobs with the computer science department 
and have now done some work with the PDP-10.
Also, a few students have gotten special permission. 
But I kind of lost points with the computer science 
department for even showing these kids these toys and 
how to play with them. Because these machines were 
paid for with research contracts, rather than tuition, 
their goal is for research. The people who administer 
them hate to say no to somebody from outside the 
department who has a good project, and they dont even 
like to be confronted with the necessity of saying no.
Q: So have any of the Fine Arts kids ever gotten the 
chance to put their aesthetics to work on these

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
photo by John Shettel
Consider the case of a young faculty member who 
sees a need to develop a new interdisciplinary area. His 
department head probably discourages him; he has few if 
any natural protectors among the senior faculty; he must 
obviously retrain himself in a wider area and hence lose 
valuable time; he must work with people from other 
disciplines and overcome their suspicions; there is no 
ongoing program he can fit into; the synergistic effect of 
graduate teaching and research is not initially present; 
research support is probably not easily available.  
-C/77 Dean Herbert Toor, On Rigidity in 
Universities
machines...
A: Yes, but its always been exceptions, and its 
always been presented to them as: only if youre good at 
finagling can you get this, and even then its not guaran
teed. In fact, some of the people actually overextended 
themselves and got kicked out.
photo by John Shettel
You can appreciate that these are very expensive 
machines, and the more people that use them for other 
purposes, the less research can get done.
Because Money Changed Hands
Q: Is there any hope in the future to get fancier 
equipment to run on the public computer systems, the 
360?
A: I think its less likely that there should be new 
equipment for the 360 than that there should be an 
arrangement, resource allocation or funds or something 
to buy one of these graphics devices and connect it to 
the PDP-10, all for the purpose of developing a system 
for architectural design. Again, because money changed 
hands there, it was something that could be arranged.
I dont know what the prospects are, and since Im 
not going to be here next year, its kind of hard for me 
even to get excited about it.
Q: What will you be doing next year?
A: Ill be at Case Western, where they have a very 
specialized piece of hardware for producing color pic
tures with much better resolution-more grey scales, and 
much more closely spaced lines. And theres an anima
tion camera attached to it, so for the kind of movies Im 
making, this very special piece of equipment is much 
more convenient. I dont know whats happening after 
that. They gave me a one year visiting appointment.
Q: How do people around here-your peers, your 
fellow mathematicians, the department chairmanreact 
to this business of teaching courses on the fringe of 
mathematics to students outside CIT/MIS?
A: Well, from the economic point of view, they dont 
lose ... essentially what happens, I suppose, is that the 
standard calculus courses get a little more crowded be
cause my resources are being used to teach students who 
wouldnt otherwise be taking math courses. That would 
mean a total increase in the number of students taking 
courses in the department, however, and therefore more 
brownie points from the administration to the math 
department. They do count things like that; total stu
dents taught is a figure thats computed somewhere up 
in Warner Hall, and Im sure that has something to do 
with funding.
It all ties in with whether the math department 
respects my work in computer graphics, bordering as it 
does on computer science, film, art and math. Its sort of 
an adjunct to a larger question which Im not sure I 
know the answer to.
Oh, before you ask me the next question, let me 
answer a different one, something I was thinking of. 
Dont forget it, though; write your question down so 
you dont forget it. The other question you might have
continued on following page
RUGS 1
1000 Room-Size Rugs 
9x12s: $ 15-$ 19-$29-$39
Also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, etc.
. Smaller area rugs in Oriental,
Indian and furry styles.
CHASE'S RUGS
4513 Liberty Awe., Bloomfield
(54-C bus lets off at the store)
Open Dally 17 to 6 pm 
Saturday 10 am to 3 pm
FOR INFORMATION  DIRECTIONS  621 1025
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH 
UNIVERSITY CENTER 
PURIM MEGILLAH READING 
Monday February 24 7 p.m.
Hillel Library 3rd Floor 315 S. Bellevield Avenue.
PURIM CELEBRATION
on the Gateway Clipper
Saturday March 1 
Bus leaves 315 S. Belle field at 8:20 p.m,
$5.00 Band Cash Bar 
It is a social or bring a date ~ dress as you wish 
Call 627*8875 for reservation 
315 S. Belief old Avenue (Across from Heinz Chapelf 621-8875
R-U TIRED 
OF 
POOR SERVICE??
We service all makes 
Try Pittsburgh's Newest, Most 
Modern, Service Dept.ALL
PARTS IN STOCK
NEGLEY KAWASAKI 
5101 Baum Boulevard 
P. S. We sell new Kawasakis Too |

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12- February 18, 1975TRAPI
7 find I get more turned on by making pictures 
than I ever got by proving theorems."
Nelson Max, continued from proceeding page.
photo by John Shettel
asked is how the computer science department feels, 
because after all, having no degree in computer science, 
and coming from the math department
Q: An invasion?
A: Right, and in fact the feelings were harder when I 
taught WATFIV to an H&SS class in Foundations of 
Mathematics, just because I was trying to figure out 
something they would be interested in, and no matter 
what Id tell them they werent interested and I thought 
they might like computers. Peoplewell, flak got back 
to me, like What are you teaching these people FOR
TRAN for, FORTRAN is not a computer science lan
guage. I mean, its a sin to teach FORTRAN. So I got 
some flak right there, and thats one of the reasons Im 
teaching BASIC now.
But there was a computer science department course 
last fall in graphics, taught by Raj Reddy. In fact, he had 
some of the students I started in my little course, along 
with some that were more into the advanced computer 
science aspects of it. So now I can make my course 
entirely suited to Fine Arts students, and were not in 
competition, really.
Incompatible
Q: Do you ever find a reactionmaybe not around 
CMU, but from mathematicians in generalof What is 
this guy doing? He ought to be studying this stuff on 
paper and in his head, and not going out and playing 
with these machines?
A: Im sure that attitude is there; in fact I have it 
myself at times, but I rationalize that I have more fun 
doing this, I seem to do it better, and Im a big fish in 
the small pond that is the computer graphics fipld. It 
turns out that there are an awful lot of people trying to 
do topology, and in a way it makes me unique.
However, I dont think they would ever consider me 
for tenure. They already told me they wouldnt, and I 
think thats one of the reasons, you know, that Im 
doing something that doesnt fit in with the kind of 
research that the department has in mind.
It just sort of fills in the cracks between various 
disciplines, and thats certainly not something to make it 
easy to get tenure in any one department.
Q: If this question is impertinent, dont answer it. 
What reason were you given for not getting tenure here?
A: I was never considered for tenure, so its not a 
matter of being turned down. They told me when I came 
here that there was no chance for tenure, so if Im at all 
unhappy its not that anybody did anything unfair to 
me, but just that because of where our respective heads 
are at, were incompatible. Its not something Im bitter 
about or any reason for people to think Ive been treated 
unfairly.
Q: Once you finish your work with the inside-out 
sphere, what will you do next?
A: I have a number of ideas. One is to do computer 
animation on a planetarium dome, projecting through a 
fisheye lens. Theres a place out in San Diego that has 
this facility. They were vaguely interested, but not 
enough to commit money, and neither was the NSF. The 
chairman of the Computer Science department at Case 
said, though, that we might be able to bootleg a short, 
like ten seconds, film.
And then if I want to stay at Case, I have to do 
something that will make money. Two possibilities are 
TV advertising or low-level, junior college or medical 
technician type films, perhaps using chemistry, where 
the computer would represent the different atoms. Im 
interested in organic chemistry, DNA unwindingthat 
sort of stuff. I always have more ideas than I can ever 
begin to execute, and one thing Im hoping is that at 
Case Ill do a better job of working with thesis students 
than I did here.
A Communicator
Q: Incidentally, is there any way to explain to a lay 
person how on earth you turn a sphere inside out?
A: Well, since thats what my film is supposed to 
accomplish, and since a picture is worth a thousand 
words and there are 24 frames a second in this film, I 
expect this film to do a much better job than Ill ever be 
able to do in words, so Im certainly not going to be able 
to describe to you just how.
The idea is that you dont want to put creases into 
the surface but youre allowed to pass it through itself. 
It moves around in all these contortions and in the end 
its been turned inside out, and its not been torn, and 
most important, its not been creased. If you just took a 
sphere and pushed it and flattened it and then opened it 
out the other way, you would have a crease around the 
diameter.
It was proved mathematically that such a deform
ation existed, by algebraic topology, and then a lot of 
people tried to visualize it. This isnt my own way of 
visualizing, its due to a blind Frenchman named Bernard 
Morin. I just decided to make a movie out of it... its 
not as if I were Steve Smale who proved it or Morin who 
visualized it, so in a sense Im a communicator rather 
than a discoverer.
Q: Will you be a part of the Math or Comp Science 
department at Case?
A: Ill have the same unstable relationship I have 
here, where Ill be teaching mathematics because the 
Math department thinks what Im doing is valid, but 
theyre supporting me on a limited time, assuming Ill 
get a grant or make money at it or find some way of 
being financially independent of the department. They 
cant commit themselves to supporting me when Im not 
doing Math research in terms of tenure or any kind of 
long-term job. And since my training isnt in computer 
science, Im not competent to teach that.
B'NAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH g; 
UNIVERSITY CENTER 
FACULTY - STUDENT SABBATH
At Chatham College 
Friday February 21 7:30 p.m.
Contemporary Service with Guitar 
Refreshments
Professor Neil Rosenblum on: 
MENTAL HEALTH vs. MENTAL ILLNESS 
IN CHILDREN 
Where? Mellon CenterConover Room
INFORMAL BAGEL & LOX BRUNCH 
Sunday February 23 
Come and go from 11 a.m. -1 p.m.
WHERE? Hillel Library, 3rd Floor,
315 S. Bellefield Ave.
COST: $1.00
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875
The Challenge: 
Conquering the sea and the sky.
Its the reason why flying Navy is one of the most demanding fields you could choose.If you qualify both physically and mentally.. .we want you. Our Naval Aviation Program starts with the real down-to:earth basics of flight. Then... intensive flight training in the type of aircraft you will eventually be assigned.As a Naval Aviator (Pilot), you'll learn to fly jets, prop aircraft or helicopters.As a Naval Flight Officer (NFO), you'll learn aviation electronics, nuclear weapons, navigation, etc. Its tough, but when you get your Navy Wings of Gold, youll know its worth it... because then, youre someone special.
The opportunity is for real... 
and so are we. NAVY
For more information see...
LT. TOM FLAHERTY 
IN THE PLACEMENT OFFICE, 
WEDNESDAY & THURSDAY 
MARCH 5th and 6th

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
February 18, 1975-Page 13
"Being successful exists only in 
the minds of those who aren't/
an interview with B. H. Barry
by Frank Nellis
Can you think of anything more exciting than 
interviewing a member of the Drama Department about 
what its like to be on the Mike Douglas show?
I was sitting in Thistle Hall waiting to do just that. 
Thistle Hall is an enormous room in the back of the 
gym. with wrestling mats piled against the walls, burlap 
hanging from the ceiling (to improve the acoustics for 
the band), hand railings and mirrors (for dance classes), 
rings hanging from the beams (for CMUs phantom 
gymnastics team), and a clock that marks 12:15 con
stantly.
I was comfortably propped on one of the mats when 
the dramats started coming in. One of them was short 
and well-built as many of the drama students are, but he 
walked with an unusually relaxed gait. He and the other 
students chose swords, testing for balance and weight, 
and paired off, striking what seemed to be blows aimed 
to cripple and maim. I noticed that the odd-looking 
student had no partner, but was walking through the 
swinging swords giving suggestions to the couples as to 
how they could make their attacks more visually devas
tating.
After a half hour of this, the teacher walked over, 
sword in hand, and said, You must be Frank. Im B.H. 
Barry. I saw what he could do with that sword and I 
wasnt going to argue with him.
Barry was teaching stage fighting; he also teaches at 
several academies in England, his home. Between classes
he finds time to direct fight scenes for the Royal Shakes
peare Company, English and American television and 
several movies (Polanskis Macbeth for example.) He is 
here at CMU for the second time, teaching students to 
make their fights look brutal, but not letting anyone get 
hurt. He has several techniques for stage fighting, some 
of them he learned while studying the martial arts, 
others, like reversed energy he developed himself. 
Reversed energy is the opposite of fighting. When 
youre fighting you make it hard for your opponent to 
hit you. With my technique you present targets to your 
opponent. That way he can hit you where it doesnt 
hurt.
Barry runs his classes in a unique way, tolerating no 
questions and asking his students to forget all they know 
about fencing and fighting. He says that modern fencing 
and fighting (like boxing) are too stylized to be used on 
stage. I want to show what a brawl is really like; that 
way people will be ashamed of their own aggressive 
feelings.  Barry doesnt like questions in his class be
cause, Theyre usually designed by the student to show 
how attentive he is in class. He repeated one of those 
inscrutable Chinese proverbs Im sure I heard on Kung 
Fu: To hear is to forget, to see is to remember, to do is 
to understand.
Recently, he and Liz Halliday, his wife and senior 
dramat at CMU, were invited to teach Mike Douglas a
little about stage fighting on Mikes show. But they were 
dissatisfied with the results. They take their work ser
iously and expect the same respect even from the host of 
mediocrity. But, Mike tries to make everything a joke 
and it is his show. Even with the lack of sobriety the 
newlyweds enjoyed the experience and would like to 
have a chance to do it again.
After I talked with him awhile, I realized that B.H. 
Barry is a man with two personalities; he even has two 
names. There is B.H. Barry, a man at the top of his 
profession and never out of work, both unusual in the 
theatre. And there is Barry Halliday, who says, Being 
successful exists only in the minds of those who arent. 
As he talks, both personalities seem to take turns at the 
foreground, butting a statement like, I want to be the 
best I cap at everything I try. against, You know, you 
lose anonimity with success. Ill never ge\ a chance to 
make the mistakes my students make, again. Despite 
admitting having achieved goals he never thought he 
would reach when he started, he is still modest: I know 
Im not a very bright man, but I try.
Liz Halliday would make the best Katharina in 
Taming of the Shrew I know of. Complete with lots of 
red hair, freckles and make-up, she would be a natural 
for the part. Yet she too has a side of friendly warmth 
that is less obvious than Barrys, but no less real. She 
married Barry last spring after meeting three months 
earlier. Liz was then and is now one of his students, but 
their life off campus has had little effect on their 
academic lives. They both agree that sometimes familiar
ity does breed contempt: Sometimes Liz finds it hard 
to take advice.
But, all things considered, Barry and Liz seem made 
for each other. The first time I saw the two of them 
together was in Thistle Hall. As I was talking to Barry, 
Liz came over, sword in hand, and drew it across his 
neck in a slicing motion. From that point on I knew who 
was boss. As Barry said later, Im the one that should 
make sacrifices.
rTheh^s 5uM3-D 
Legftjs wit
NKXe5 oPflM 
JVo/feT
gEew-'
Zm a
tflNGE.
b/Efl ?EED - IITxhan
I cu .-Z 3I0$, I ccu-0
fk/- THe ter ]4315B ViMm w
Persons interested in
BRAINWAVE
BIOFEEDBACK
To Serve as Subjects
Anyone may apply. 
We especially need:
 Engineering Students
 Pointing and sculpture 
majors
training
IF INTERESTED, PLEASE CALL:
DR. RONALD COLE 
Ext. #500
For Free Brochure - Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC
P.O. BOX 7421
OAKLAND STATION
PITTSBURGH,
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
I x CHOKE# WJH6f\)  5AW ..
iiM.XT wA5 HE "AJ
yvtfftcv.y'&u&ffO fay-j 
p sRN C
Symposium on Modern 
American Journalism
"WIRE SERVICE 
NEWS COVERAGE"
Ed McHale & Robert Benjamin 
United Press International
Thursday, Feb. 20 
8:30, Room 46, Skibo
A reception will follow the Symposium 
sponsored by the CMU Tartan

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
Page 14February 18, 1975
by Kris Mamula
Id completely forgotten that it was January. Slush 
from the heavily salted road seeped through my suede 
shoes, I just noticed that I hadnt worn an undershirt 
and one of my coat buttons was missing; it was the 
button midway through my chest and my hand became 
numb holding shut the opening. The wind picked up and 
I remembered my sagging socks, felt my ankles chill, and 
a dull pain in my chest. I coughed and spit; still the 
heavy white phlegm of pneumonia in its final throes: Id 
completely forgotten that it was January.
As one attempts to find order in recent events I 
sorted a barrage of individual experiences, weighing each 
one, mentally assigning it a value. It was the night that 
she had a stroke. I hadnt seen her in quite a while. 
Often I reassured myself of her well being by trying to 
imagine what it would be like without herI couldnt and 
so she was all right. But that night they banged on my 
door late said there was no answer by phone we had to 
check its severe it would be good if you could go right 
away a neighbor called an ambulance. I ran my fingers 
through her gray hair; shed never looked so old. I 
covered her feet.
I moved into her apartment and looked after things. 
She was an artist and I left her paintings and back room 
studio untouched. In the front of her apartment was a 
fine piano, a Wurlitzer. It was situated opposite great 
windows that faced the street. She owned the building 
and lived on the third floor. Once in the failing evening 
light I played that piano, inventing new chords, using 
ones I remembered. The keys, black and white merged 
into darkening hues of gray, became harder to disting
uish. As if to slow the muddy influx of light that 
gradually flooded the room I.played harder with growing 
ferocity then stopped suddenly. Holding tightly down 
the damper pedal I listened to the fading tones. The 
slush-colored light made it impossible to see any longer 
in the room. Cold January' slush stung my toes; Id 
completely forgotten that it was January.
THE IDES OF APRIL REALL Y HIT THE 15TH
The tax is due today.
I will measure the time 
it takes before he 
forgets again that all 
dealings must be accounted 
for in that great future day.
Caesars assassins never saw 
his forms; they had him all 
accounted for when 
his credibility gapped.
When in question count 
your chickens before they 
hatch on you.
 #
I went to see her later where shed been moved and 
surprised to see her sitting alone in a wheel chair staring 
at her image in a blackened mirror. I put some of her 
clothes that Id brought into a metal chest with broken 
handles. She was unable to talk, but I promised her that 
Id bring coffee the very next time I came, the kind she 
liked, the kind I bought in town. I was frightened by her 
roommate when she came into the room. Hunched way 
over she seemed to jab her stomach with a taut index 
finger that trembled as if it had a mind of its own. She 
explained to us that shed just met one of her old 
neighbors. They had lived next door to each other for 
fifteen years then each moved away and hadnt kept in 
touch. After nearly twenty years she met her again 
walking down the hall here. Like companions in a ro
mantic novel she noted, losing track of one another like 
they did. She began to tremble violently and with no 
prodding explained, This eres Parkinsons, then slow
ly shuffled out of the room.
I brought some tangerines, I said peeling one but 
she motioned that she wouldnt take any until I 
promised Id eat half.
On my second visit I again promised her that Id
GROUNDHOG
When lies are overcast you 
cant tell what time it is, 
whether to eat or 
wait to eat. You dont 
know how to take 
being taken. When sunlight 
strikes you are in 
the bright or you are 
in the dark. If you keep 
moving you will be followed; 
they will trace a 
shadow back to your feet.
by Jean Saby
# 
remember the coffee next visit I made, as if my promise 
would construct a hinge on which she could pivot all her 
hopes. I think she knew I didnt have the money for her 
favorite blend. I recalled to her how Id used to try to 
fool her by bringing her other blends, but never succeed
ed. She could smell the difference the moment shed 
torn the sticky-tape seal of the bag.
By the time I saved enough money for the coffee it 
was too late. On my last visit the old woman lied quite 
still in a new dress that Id never seen before. Her 
roommate wasnt there. I told her that the coffee Id 
brought was fresh and ground the way she always liked 
it. When she made no reply I carefully tore the seal of 
the bag and offered the unmistakable aroma as proof. I 
carefully placed the bag of coffee beside her and told her 
that the letter came. It was from the city indicating a 
foreclosure of her building. I told her how Id torn down 
the Sale notices that theyd tacked to the door, but 
didnt tell her about the demolition. I felt she probably 
already knew. In the street a wet chill had thoroughly 
soaked my suede shoes. I coughed hard and spit the 
glistening white phlem; Id completely forgotten that it 
was January.

---------------------------------------------------

Some dance. Some stumble.
Some just lean against walls 
and wallow in it.
Parades snake through the city 
and costumed men on elaborate 
floats toss beads & trinkets to the 
screaming natives. (Not natives , 
actually all the natives escaped 
ahead of time to fishing hide-aways 
or Florida.)
To Queen Catherine, because her horse died.
Were glad you like our beads. Happy Valentines Day, 1976.
By Dyke and Fab
The streetcar drivers are on strike 
and thumbs become the major mode 
of public transportation. Not that 
it matters:
half the roads are blocked off 
by parades (see below) anyway 
Everyone who is not stuck in 
traffic jams is walking. The first 
few miles are a delight: 
it is the South, it is warm,
New Orleans, unlike Pittsbutgh, has a sun, and there 
are lots with palm trees 
and flowers to gape at; 
yes, sunshine and flowers.
At night it is the same, only 
darker. Except on Bourbon 
Street, which is all noise and 
neon, so packed, well, it takes 
a half hour to wriggle from one 
end to the other. Some where 
in the middle of all those bars 
& strip joints is a "Jesus is Lord 
church. Revival songs lace the 
air, wedged between Get Dancing 
by Disc-o-tex and the sex-o-lettes, 
and Labelle.s Lady Marmalade 
(wu/ez-vous coucher avec moi...
...ou est-ce que vous avezpeur)
A gang of drunks starts clapping 
, and suddenly the street is singing,
and everyone on it too............
Oh black water, keep on rolling, 
mississippi wont you keep on shining on 
Far out.
Everyone smiles. We sit down on the 
curb and watch beer puddle in the gutter. 
A girl from Florida sits down next to us. 
She says her name is Christmas Tree, 
and that we can call her Christ for short. 
We get waylaid (ummmmm) in a bar, 
dance till dawn .
Thursday, Feb. 20 
12:30 p.m. 
Wherrett Room, Skibo
When I woke up it was raining. I could hardly see anything for all the mist. Next to 
me on the damp pavement lay a dog. I couldn.t see anything beyond my outstretched 
hand. The dog was shivering in the cold, and I could see little drops of moisture on 
its curly white coat. I began to notice my own wteness, and wiped my face. I was 
suprized when the liquid was warm, and red. Suddenly
A dull roar began in the distance. I thought that it was something wrong with my 
head, or hearing. I thought that I must be hearing things, because the noice, as it grew 
more distinct, began to resemble human voices. It seemed that people were running 
past me in the gof, sceraming to each other in code, or in some iunntelligable language. 
I tride to stand but tripped over my tom suit coat, which hung around my legs - 
torn and drenched with blood. I was horrified to realize that the blood was hot 
my own, that it was the dogs blood, and that I had two of its legs in my pocket.
I quickly turned to run away when I collided with a woman, and we 
both fell unconscious to the ground. Lhen I awoke again later the woamn was 
removing the dog legs from my pocket. She thought she was being sneaky, so I 
played along, and pretented to still be unconscious. She was quite an attractive 
girl, I realized as I lay there, peering out of nearly closed eyelids. She looked 
southern, and bit her lover lip as she slid the legs out of my pocket. Undrestanding 
the implications of the girls actions, grabbed both of her writst at the same time 
and puUed her towards me. She gave a brief shreik, which I quickly smothered 
with my mouth. The dog legs fell from her hands and lay next to us on the 
cold asphalt, looking strangely like breaded chicken legs. This girl, well, this 
woman and me, we rolled back and forth, getting soaked to the bone. We 
rolled throguh puddles and over other people who were also lying in the street, 
and we orlled over tho^e dog legs again and again, and that was where I hanally 
had her, with her back arched up over the dog legs,....
AB & CPP FORUM
Professor Tom Kerr
discussion
and
film
Interview with 
Supreme Court Justice 
Hugo Black
After I had finished, and the girl had gathered up the legs and 
ran away, I noticed again that sound. I now I heard also the sounds of feet an^ 
druns, and horns. It was definitedl comming my way. I ran to what I hopped 
would be the sidewalk, but I just kept falling over people and slipping in puddles 
that were everywhere. Finally I could make out some vague shapes in the fog. 
They seemed to me to be huge machines, with all kindsof people runnigg after 
them. I began to be pelted with strange objects, and tried to run away from 
what ever ti was that was comming. But it was too late, they were already 
breathing down my neck. They wore strange clothes and what seemed to 
be makeup, and carried paper containers and styrofoam cups. I stopped to 
finally see what it was that was following me, and a woman wearing a pink 
and salmon mask was ringht there next to me. I noticed that the mask 
sparkled as though it were made of sequins, even in the dull light of the 
fog.Wha'cha runnin'from, man. / mean, what are you afraid of?
Aint you never seen no cajun quuen before, is dis da first time at 
themrdi gras for yo white chile?
As we left the boulevard a marching band from Johnstown was playing 
Benny and the Jets, and we could still hear them tubas, even when we 
got to the house....Baroooooom, Broom, Broom, Broom.,,................
BARCKXXXXXXXXXXXXXXKXXXXXXXXOMb
TRAPEZE
February 18, 1975Page 15
Preparing for the Onslaught
A MARDI GRAS FANTASY Q-f |_0|-|f
.if sincere-ity is fantasy)

---------------------------------------------------

by Amie Karr
Like the Khmer Rouge around Phnom 
Penh, the question had been lingering on 
the edge of my mind for months: When 
would Norman Lear start to bore me?
And the answer had been lingering on 
the edges of All in the Family for even 
longer. The Jeffersons is one spin-off that 
never should have spun off.
Not that I have anything against upward 
mobility for blacks. Im glad that George 
Jefferson is now making S40.000 per 
annum, glad that he can afford a stylish 
high-rise apartment on the East Side of 
Manhattan. Im also glad that Lionel has a 
girlfriend and am even somewhat interested 
in her parents mixed marriage.
Its just that this time Lear has gone too 
far. The Jeffersons were amusing as the 
Bunkers next-door neighborsLouise and 
Edith became close friends and George and 
Archie worked well together as differentsides-of-the-fence adversariesbut their 
characters were bound closely by the AITF 
mold. In moving, they have lost all cred
ibility. The transition to the new show has
left the entire family with a crisis of ident
ification. In order to capitalize on the spin
ning-off, all characters are trying to retain 
middle-class mannerisms while living the 
high life. The theme song and, seemingly, 
all the plots deal with the same problem: 
movin' on up. Though the cast has in 
deed moved from 8 to 8:30 on Saturday 
nights, it seems they still haven t moved 
their roles out of Queens. Except for the
set, Lionels new-found love of partying, 
Georges fantastic greed, and Louises dis
gust with her men and mother-in-law, 
everyone is playing the same part. I could 
have enjoyed a real spin-off with the same 
castone in which new aspects of the char
acters emergedbut, unfortunately, this 
hasnt materialized. Instead, The Jeffersons 
have dichotomized. I still dont believe that 
the apartment is theirs. The show is like an 
unfinished fantasyLears first.
I dont restrict black spin-offs to pover
ty and unemployment, yet Esther Rolle 
and John Amos were able to tie together a 
cast and a new spirit when they were 
awarded Good Times. Isabel Sanford (no 
relation to Fred) and George Sherman have 
yet to do this on their new show, and this 
is probably because they have been thrust 
into a conceopt that they are not totally 
comfortable with. Lear was hungry to do a 
show on the black middle class and the 
Jeffersons were assigned to the problem 
because it was easier than introducing a 
new set of faces to the TV audience. Like 
Hot I Baltimore, The Jeffersons relies on 
proven commoditiessure thingsand 
the effect is sloppy, stinking of complac
ency.
We were used to seeing George Jefferson 
in a suit with a vest. Other than AIFTs 
high ratings, this seems to be the sole 
reason for selecting The Jeffersons to be 
Americas Archetypical Black Middle Class 
Family. Neither reason substantiates the 
choice, nor does either compensate for the 
shows many loose ends.
continued on page 19
NAVIGATORS
ATTENTION!
A RARE FLYING OPPORTUNITY 
FOR QUALIFIED FORMER 
AIR FORCE NAVIGATORS.
If you've been missing the sky you once knew, here is an extraordinary opportunity 
to get back aloft You can keep your present civilian job and you can also enjoy this 
exciting part-time job" on the side You'll be very pleasantly surprised at how much 
it pays, too
It s a rare flying opportunity for qualified former Air Force Navigators The Air Force 
Reserve has several immediate openings for navigators Call today for more information!
FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 28
WHERRETT ROOM
8:30 & 10:00 P.M. 
50 WITH CMU I.D. 
$1.50 Without
CALL: (412f 264-5006 Ext 361 
Or Fill Out Coupon and Mail Today!
TO:
NAME_____________________
ADDRESS:-----------------------------------
CITY:__________________STATE:
PHONE:..........PRIOR SERVICE_
(NO) DATE OF BIRTH
AIR FORCE RESERVE
--------------- 911th Tactical Airlift Corpl
Greater Pittsburgh Int. Airport 
ZIP. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15231
(YES)
pizza productions presents
NORMAN
BLAKE
COUNTRY & BLUEGRASS
Page 16-THE TARTAN-February 18, 1975
entertainment
???????????????????????
 

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 18. 1975-Page 17
THE ALVIN AI LEY TRADITION
men, Michihiko Oka and Masazumi Chaya. 
They are small, muscularly compact 
dancers, and lent a fire to the piece that 
expressed no particular theme but left it
self wide open for varied interpretations.
Aileys first major work Blues Suite 
(circa 1958; Aileys first concert was in 
1957) even though a stunning work, is be
ginning to look its age, for it is a definite 
period piece. Relatively sedate for the 
mid-seventies, it can still be looked upon as 
vintage Ailey. A series of rhythmand-blues 
songs provided the motivation in which 
lost love, despair, protest, anger and humor 
are danced. It presented a somewhat ab
surd/fatalistic view of the world, in which 
one wakes to the blues, and then tem
porarily escapes, only to return at the end 
of the day. But the time allotted to the
laments of Coltrane and Nyro, Yarborough 
took Cry into her own sphere, making it 
all fluid grace and easy lyricism. Then en
sued the real test: the booming voices of 
the East Harlem Choir are hardly apt to 
tolerate clear almost balletic steps. Yar
borough took a deep breath, gathered her 
skirts about her and plunged into a soulridden funk, throwing her weight loosely 
and defiantly for a memorable re-interpretation of the Black womans experience. 
The voices cried, Right on, be free; and 
Yarborough was right-on free and most 
beautiful!!!!
Svelte Ulysses Dove danced the Dudley 
Williams vehicle A Song for You by 
Leon Russell and Donny Hathaway. Doves 
performance was vastly superior to that of 
Williams. His mime is much more comby James Oliver Fletcher
When one thinks of reviewing the Alvin 
Ailey City Center Dance Theater, a rush of 
superlatives ranging from galvanic to spec
tacular, comes to mind. Perhaps the most 
important and yet questionable one would 
be Black. The companys motto is In 
the Black Tradition, but black is not a 
limiting qualifier to the universality of 
Ailey, his dancers and his works. It is true 
that a great deal of the troupes repertoire 
draws from the traditional conception of 
the Black experience, but this conception 
is indicative of the struggles of the op
pressedthere is a very common bond 
shared by all: the necessity to present the 
beauty of what you represent and to free 
yourself from images others would impose 
upon you out of sheer ignorance. Yes, 
Alvin Ailey educates just as much as he 
entertains.
Evidence of the universality of the ' 
Black struggle is the fact that the company 
is an integrated one and the various races 
are cast in all numbers in the programme. 
Each finds something with which they can 
identify.
The internationally famous Ailey is 
among the dozen or so fine choreographers 
of modem dance who have helped to ele
vate that art form to a high pinnacle. While 
he gained popularity with his own com
pany, he concentrated on providing a 
troupe for Black choreographers who did 
not have a company of their own or the 
means to stage a particularly elaborate 
piece.
To feign blindness to the problems of 
the company would be exceedingly unfair. 
Paradoxically, their chief strength is also 
their weakness. The very fact that they are 
a company founded on diversity of race, 
nationality and dance background at times 
gets in the way of their really being able to 
fit together. And that should be the pri
mary goal of a company. There are dif
ferent port de bras, attitudes and move
ment motivations. A variety of schools can 
be seenAiley, Graham, ballet, jazz, ethnic 
and modern. But with brilliant insight, 
Ailey has turned this seeming problem 
into a stunning solution and eventual trade
mark through the perfection of these diver
sities. The racial/culture mixture would not 
be right in any company other than 
Aileys. That neo-dadaist stroke makes ab
solute sense in this world of limitless pos
sibilities.
Recently at Heinz Hall, the City Center 
Theater had a stay of two days in which 
they performed two evening concerts and 
one matinee, each with a different pro
gramme. So, attending all three would have 
provided the viewer with the best of Ailey. 
Let us begin at the beginning.
Streams, music by Miloslav Kabelac, 
was a mere tributary to the far superior 
 Rivers but served as an effective hors 
doeuvre. Rather tame, it consisted of a 
blue set and clever lighting changes in 
which couples danced classic variations on 
the defeat of lonliness and the victory of 
solitude. Moving about the stage, independ
ent of one another, they would make 
physical contact only by chance and draw 
away as if they had encountered live wires. 
Mari Kajwara and Donna Wood were ex
tremely communicative in the gentle, then 
strong statements Recitativo and Lamentoso.
A rarity occured when a long and rather 
daring duet Scherzo was danced by two
denizens of this Ellison-like existence is full 
of ribald comedy and pathetic disenchant
ment, although a true victory never occurs.
Donna Wood (definitely star-bound), 
Tina Yuan and Cynthia Penn gave spell
binding portrayals as three women (sister, 
mother, lover) caught in the endless web of 
prostitution in a number called House of 
the Rising Sun. Estelle Spurlock, a mar
velous comedienne, and Clive Thompson 
provided a light-hearted rendition of the 
temptations and reversed seduction of a 
streetwalker and her customer.
Cry, originally designed as a showcase 
for Judith Jamison in 1971 (with music by 
Coltrane, Laura Nyro and the Voices of 
East Harlem, and dedicated to Black 
women every whereespecially our 
mothers) was designed this time around to 
Sara Yarborough. The music cannot be 
denied comment. It wins an emotional re
sponse that the choreography could only 
equal, but never surpass. The music pre
cedes the steps, almost commanding one 
movement after another. Admittedly, I was 
waiting to see if Yarborough would do 
justice to the piece. This number became 
quickly identified with the large, angular 
and majestically funky Jamison, who is 
now on a leave of absence. Yarborough was 
superb in her interpretation, validly com
municating in her own style. During the 
first section, accompanied by the soulful
municative. With precise unstrained exten
sion, clean leaps and supple back (although 
his arms were a bit lax at untimely mo
ments), there was the overall impression 
that he was singing for a special aud
ience.
Then there was Carmina Burana. No 
matter how one feels about its artistic mer
its, it remains a fascinating piece.
In 1803 an anonymous script wis dis
covered in a monastary in Upper Bavaria. It 
consisted of pieces by 12th and 13th cen
tury wandering studentslyricists writing 
in Latin, Middle-high German and old 
French, who were evidently brimming over 
with youthful anger, extremely earthy de
sires and determination to accept the chal
lenge and delight of life, wine, women and 
song. Its all part of a youthful revolt 
against an oppressive world. All are pre
sented in a defiant yet somewhat pessimist
ic attitude. The lyrics suggest great 
theatricalism, providing grand opportunity 
for the dance/drama theater of Ailey. Its 
expression of Sybaritic desires, lascivious
ness and progression of passion beneath the 
monks cloaks in the opening motif were 
handled beautifully by choreographer John 
Butler. Granted the movement of the corps 
is almost all symmetry-oriented, and the 
Ailey dancers, with their varied styles 
lacked the kind of unison to make the 
group scenes seem like a united effort. The
solos and duets by Sara Yarborough, Tina 
Yuan, Clive Thompson and Michihiko Oka 
were enthralling. The first portion of 
Burana was tame as the couples danced 
out their dread of being ruled by Fortune. 
As the lyrics progressed in sensuality, so 
does the choreography. A maiden, Tina 
Yuan, in cascading white, enters and 
dances in praise of chastity while the other 
females dance in hopes of attracting poten
tial lovers. These activities set the rapid 
pase for the tavern scene. The male corps 
dance to the commands of Venus, pleasure 
and vice, thinking only of their skins. 
During the performance of Burana ones 
attention was constantly drawn toward 
Give Thompson. During the number, he 
comes to the sorner of stage right, en atti
tude and practically nude and proceeds to 
flex every muscle from his ankle to his 
eyebrow in a particularly sensuous section 
praising the virility of the young men. Such 
an act might seem pretentious, vain and 
ostentatious but it was theatrically (though 
rather bluntly) effective.
For the following moments the stage is 
empty; there is no music. Michihiko Oka 
leaped onto the stage to be confronted by 
Sara Yarborough, in black and en pointe, 
dancing the role of a roasted swan about to 
be eaten by the young men. It sounds 
facile, but the interpretation offered by 
Oka and Yarborough was a voluptuous fes
tival in which the swan (who seemed al
most feline) defiantly danced around the 
young man and engaged in a series of arro
gant lifts and supports until she was finally 
conquered by Oka. But until the final 
moment in which she is carried off, she 
tempts the man with obvious sexual play, 
musses his hair and beguiles him with a 
series of pelvic thrusts while maintaining a 
loathsome expression for him on her face.
In The Court of Love scene, there are 
presentations of platonic and erotic love. 
The erotic passages were far more interest
ing with lyrics:
 . .. I bloom
Now with pure young love
I am on fire!
Come my darling 
For already I die.
My chastity teases me 
Take me 
Sweetest boy 
I give my all to you!
It is during those passages that the 
couples dance together with unbridled ex
uberance-each variation ending with the 
joining of the pelvic regions. Eventually the 
virgin is carried away!
Finally the be-cloaked monks return to 
lament their situation, in which Fortune 
allows only so much joy.
There were many times when the 
couples exchanged partners but Oka and 
Yuan danced far better when they danced 
together, as did Yarborough and Thomp
son.
Clive Thompson is obviously rising in 
the ranks of the Ailey company and he 
deserves a special note. He replaced Hector 
Mercado in the company as the dancer 
with the most sexual athleticism. He has 
obviously had several years of ballet train
ing, by the manner in which he carries 
himself. Several seasons with the Martha 
Graham Company also probably added to 
his unique style. A fine actor, his range of 
expression is not limited to his body; his 
face takes on the attitude of whatever char
acter is to be portrayed. He has the audcontinued on page 19

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-February 18, 1975
Randy Kovitz
photo by Dave Meeker
by Susan N. Klein
Northrop Frye says in The Anatomy of 
Criticism that pure mime is the closest 
thing there is to pure irony. The ironic 
drama, he says, Is a vision of what in 
theology is called the fallen world; of 
simple humanity, man as natural man and 
in conflict with both human and
non-human nature. He goes on to say that 
the ironic vision is the study of the frus
trating and smothering of human activity 
by the combined pressure of a reactionary 
society without and a disorganized soul 
within.
You canwatch Randy Kovitz personify 
Fryes ideas in his mime, The Execution. 
His painted black eyebrows shoot up and 
his foreheacLjs creased. His lips show up 
red and are open in anticipation of a 
scream that we know will never come. He 
tiptoes across the stage, pauses, bends; his 
arms stretch forward and pull back. He is a 
convict, and hes going to escape from 
prison.
The convict scales walls, he stretches a 
tightrope taut between two buildings, and 
finds his way unsteadily across, arms 
flailing. A feeling of success comes over his 
face, his eyebrows arch, his actions are 
quicker and more deliberate; another wall 
is scaled, much faster this time, his eyes
Tom Siebenthal photo by Dave Meeker
ILLUSIONS
Ronnie Savion assists Magician Jon Brunelle photo by Dave Meeker
grandiosity, his elbow shoots back and 
forth with growing speed and power. The 
man is possessed now, demoniacally 
whirling across the stage pumping 
bug-spray like a madman, until he stops to 
catch his breath. Then he pauses, draws a 
deep inhale, and drops to the floor in 
suffocation. The mime is a perfect example 
of irony.
Kovitz is a gifted sophomore in the 
Drama Department who began studying 
mime back in Claremont, California. He 
has performed mime shows for several 
years throughout high school, and Friday 
night he performed mimes from his reper
toire at the Kiltie Coffeehouse. Tom 
Siebenthal, another sophomore, assisted 
Kovitz, and performed mime of his own as 
well.
Kovitz begins his show with a brief 
demonstration of some basic mime il
lusions: pulling the rope; the shrinking box 
indicated by the flat palms pushing against 
the enclosing walls of a cube. Even these 
brief mimes speak of that external suf
focation, that human irony described by 
Frye. The innocent man with a simple 
curiosity for a piece of string finds himself
Kovitz sets the tone from the start; this is a 
doctor who has trouble fitting his fingers 
into the proper holes of his rubber gloves.
The mime show was of professional 
calibre bacause of Kovitzs uncanny 
maturity of both timing and dramatic 
constructionknowing just how far to take 
an illusion, a sense of how long each mime 
can sustain itself. When a man finds a live 
chicken in an egg as he is cooking 
breakfast, Kovitz knows exactly how long 
that man can flap on the birds wings 
before that chick learns to fly. Siebenthal 
knows how long to grasp an escaping 
balloon and make it seem like hes floating 
awayhe also knows just when that 
balloon should pop. Both Kovitz and 
Siebenthal allow for a great deal of variety 
of facial expression within each given 
mime. Some mimes would disagree with 
this in theory, calling it a corruption of the 
art form; the face is whitened to create the 
illusion of a mask, the body must do all the 
work. Nevertheless, the exaggerations of 
expressions made the mimes that much 
more entertaining-kudos to the men of 
Mimesis.
Friday nights program included two
magicians, also CMU students. Jon Brunelle 
does a show stocked with plenty of 
magic-shop devices. Hes got a bagful of 
store-bought tricks ranging from bouncing 
eggs, locking rings, pitchers of water that 
never stop pouring, and, of course, decks 
of cards. Brunelle is a master of manip
ulation of these devices; hes a fine 
sleight-of-hand artist, is good with a rope 
trick, as well as mental telepathy stunts, 
and some quick mini-Houdini escapes. 
Brunelles baby-faced countenance should 
not belie his confident and genial stage 
manner. Prestidigitation and magic shows 
are on the increase, as Stephen Schwartz 
will tell you, and Brunelles relaxed 
competence was a pleasant reminder that 
magic is how Johnny Carson and Dick ^
Cavett got started.
Jerry Prell was the second magicianhis 
act is full of hep-jive-talk and tricks that 
dont work. He thinks hes the George 
Carlin of Magic, and he ought to clean it up 
or clear it out. Kiltie Coffeehouse regulars 
tell me that this Magic and Mime night was 
the highlight of the seasonso congratu
lations to the Activities Board, and |
especially the performers themselves, for a 
full and varied program.
Tom Siebenthalphoto by Dave Meeker
grow wide-hes almost made it out. Fryes 
frustration and the swift smothering 
come about as the convict is caught by a 
gun-brandishing guard, who is also played 
by Randy. The dramatic beats are even 
quicker now, as a Judge, who yawns in 
boredom (Randy again), pronounces 
sentence with a pound of his mallettheres 
Fryes reactionary society. Randy plays 
an executioner who fires four fast bullets 
into Randy who, as the convict again, takes 
the four bullets and crumbles.
In another mime, a barrel-chested 
gentleman struts to and fro pumping a can 
of insecticide with vicious relish. Randy 
pouts his lips, his chin is drawn back into 
his chest for a look of pomposity; he 
shakes his head from side to side along 
with the beats of the insecticide pumps. 
Hes killing those bugs with great
yanked violently offstage by it. The same 
Innocent, exploring a room, finds it to be a 
place of crushing doom. Mime, like tricks, 
is not always for kids (later for the 
tricks.)
The original mimes of Kovitz smack of 
ironic humor, too. A doctor performs an 
operation with gory delightplunging in a 
knife with an unprofessional savage thrust. 
The doctor deals with a patient whose 
reflexes make him sit up during the oper
ationthe doctors eyes bulge in horrified 
confusion as he pushes the patient down. 
The mime proceeds with a Gothic, 
Frankenstein edge-the doctor thrusts his 
hands into the patient and scoots his 
fingers through his insides as he fishes 
around for the right organ to remove. A 
mime like this could be repulsivebut

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 18, 1975-Page 19
Feb rua aya1 
8,97
continued from page 16
The sitcoms best moments are provided 
by two newcomers. Bentley, an articulate 
British Diplomat played by Paul Benedict, 
is Georges new next-door neighbor and the 
least predictable member of the cast. In the 
show, he is the only character capable of 
out-mouthing George, doing so with a 
well-groomed combination of warmth, 
naivete and good humor. He is also used to 
interrupt family feuds among the Jeffersons, which invariably deal with Georges 
remarkable love of money and status 
symbols. Bentley is the only one adept at 
halting the predictable idiocy of a day in 
the life of George Jefferson . With him to 
play off of, the whole cast seems to come 
to life.
Similarly, Mother Jefferson (Zara Cully) 
picks the pace up a bit from time to time 
by stopping in to praise her son and insult 
her daughter-in-law. She is the embodiment 
of the proud, old black woman luxuriating 
in her sons success. Like any pompous old 
windbag, she is best when being deflated 
by Louise, a role well-handled by Isabel 
Sanford.
The movin on up idea has been used 
before. Though less likely to occur, the 
plots on The Beverly Hillbillies accomplish
ed something that has yet to happen on 
The Jeffersons. The Clampetts were noth
ing but strangers in a strange land and each 
episode gave them a chance to subtly satir
ize the gaudiness of opulance. The Jeffer
son pad is less elaborate and its characters 
truer to real life, but the stories that 
unfold there on Saturday nights have less 
unity. The same things happen every week 
and none of them have any real comedic or 
social value.
The show has already amassed high 
ratings, but I doubt these will last. Sooner 
or later, people are going to get tired of 
Louises folksiness in the face of the male 
preoccupation with being nouveau riche 
(emphasis on the nouveau). Norman 
Lear, spoiled by a string of successes, is 
finally going to be taught a lesson.
Maybe its better that way. Something 
had to stem the tide of the sloppy spin-off. 
It might have been worse. Can you see it?
THE LORENZOS or Godfather Knows 
Best Archies neighbors buy an Italian 
restaurant and meet a cop with a fetish for 
garlic bread, a construction worker who 
throws pizza at hippies and a cute librarian 
who spends her spare time researching the 
etymology of Fettucine Alfredo
In its mediocrity, The Jeffersons just 
might be a blessing in disguise.
The Chuck Davis Dance Company will
perform Saturday, February 22 at 7:30 pm 
in Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall. Their 
appearance is sponsored by Pitts Black 
Action Society. Admission is open to all 
area students with IDs. The troupe, under 
choreographer Chuck Davis, presents a 
unique repertoire of ethnic and modern 
dance depicting the black mans heritage 
from Africa to America. Selections for the 
Pitt program range from a wamors dance, 
a mask dance and drum rhythms to Chain 
Gang and Peace and Love. For more 
information on the performance, contact 
the Black Action Society at 624-6363.
AILEY AND DANCE
continued from page 17
ience literally eating out of his hands with 
a tilt of his head or the movement of an 
eyebrow. He has a fine lift and extension 
of the right leg, while the left is sometimes 
nervous with bent knee. He also has a ten
dency to throw away gestures with his 
hands. But when he has perfected the com
promise between ballet and modern dance, 
and becomes a little more comfortable 
when airborne, he will have something 
quite rare to offer the modern dance 
world.
In Burana lissome Sara Yarborough 
was again assured, maintaining her fine lyr
icism. She takes a role and translates it into 
her language of modern dance and ballet. 
Her extensions, ballon, attitude and port 
de bras are outstanding. Her range would 
exhaust a critics dance vocabulary.
- Oka and Yuan are unique gems that 
handle the movements with precision, 
accuracy and most importantly, a velocity 
uncommon among the other members of 
the company.
Carmina Burana was an experience 
one hardly forgets. As a dance it has the 
same effect as the music of Stravinskys 
Rites of Spring and it is remarkable that 
the pieces, although of different mediums, 
are strikingly similar.
Revelations has "been regarded as 
quintessential Ailey and no programme 
would be complete without it. Although 
the company has had other successes, Rev
elations remains their most demanded, 
powerful piece. But there is a danger of the 
company becoming trapped by its own 
image. The challenge of new, more cerebral 
choreography is missing for an audience 
that has come to expect certairi traditional 
pieces from the companys repertoire, and
remains truned off until those expectations 
are met. Widening the tastes of an audience 
by giving them the best in dancers and 
choreography is the responsibility of any 
popular company.
Still, Relevations is a joint celebration 
between the company and audience, and 
there is undoubtedly some sort of deep 
psychological satisfaction involved. With 
this particular piece, one of Aileys best, he 
has achieved what few others could: the 
unification of music, voices, dance and 
strong emotion that has something to comAn extra performance of Million Dollar
Movie Themes, starring Michel Legrand 
and the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
has been added on Tuesday, March 4 at 
8:00 pm at Heinz Hall. The evening is 
sponsored by Rotary International, District 
730. Featured along with Legrand and the 
Orchestra is female vocalist Laury Shelley.
Jim Anderson, District Ticket Chair
man, along with the District Liasion 
Officers, hopes to sell out the entire Hall as 
a benefit for Rotary International Youth 
Charities. Tickets are available at the Heinz 
Hall box office at $7.50, $6.50 and $5.50.
Since 1965, when he received three 
Academy Awards for music from the film 
The Umbrellas of Cherbourg. Michel Le
grand has become one of the most import
ant names in the musical field. In addition 
to the Academy Awards, Legrand was the 
recipient of three Grammy Awards and an 
Emmy nomination for his score for the 
ABC-TV movie-for-television Brians Song.
Other Academy Awards and Nomin
ations include those for The Windmills of 
Your Mind, What Are You Doing the 
Rest of Your Life, Pieces of Dreams, I 
Will Wait For You, Watch What 
Happens and The Summer of 42.
It has been a long time between visits to
Pittsburgh for the New Christy Minstrels, 
but the popular folk singing group will 
appear in concert at Heinz Hall on Sunday, 
April 6 at 8 pm in a benefit performance 
for the YMCA of Pittsburgh.
Not that the Minstrels have been taking 
it easy. Between television appearacnes 
with celebrities like Bob Hope and Jose 
Feliciano and fours abroad to Japaq, Aus
tralia and other nations, the group has been 
anything but inactive.
It has been with such tours or perform
ances at the White House that former mem
bers of the singing group gained experience 
to make it on their own. Among the more
municate to all.
The traditional religious music explores 
the emotions of the early American Negro. 
Langston Hughes believed that the spirit
uals asked no pity but strength and faith 
with sustained melodies, song sermons, gos
pel songs and holy blues-songs of trouble, 
of love, of deliverance. Their woe is tri
umphant.
Truly outstanding moments were the 
Fix Me Jesus segment in which Clive 
Thompson, with controlled sensuality, 
partnered Sara Yarborough/Mari Kajwara 
in a piece asking guidance from above in 
the constant struggle to be fit in the eyes 
of God. Hovering extensions were climaxed 
when the womans partner lies on his back, 
lifting her with his feet. Their pulsating 
lifts, supports and arabesques compliment
ed the swelling voices beautifully. The 
Take Me to the Water segment echoed 
the joyous anticipation of an old-time bap
tism. Donna Wood entered majestically 
with a white umbrella, wielding it with a 
queen-like authority. This section ended 
with a climactic baptism of Yarborough/ 
Yuan; but before we have digested it fully 
we are hurled into the athletic Sinner 
Man, in which Melvin Jones, Ulysses Dove 
and Michihiko Oka attempt to escape the 
ramifications of their sins. The music 
builds to an orgiastic end as each man 
dazzles the audience with a series of leaps, 
rapid pirouettes, thrusts and extensions.
Finally, there is the enactment of activ
ities in a Baptist Church on a sweltering 
Sunday morning. The women enter in 
bright yellow, fanning themselves as a 
bright sun radiates in the background. 
They meet and greet one another, gossip, 
cast knowing glances and snub each other. 
The men enter, only to be reprimanded for 
being late, as well as possible infidelities 
and general lack of God-fearing worship. 
But they are in church now and so all is 
forgiven. The company proceeds to dance 
joyously (though a bit perfunctorily) to 
(the infectious Rock My Soul in the 
bosom of Abraham. Each moment sur
passes the previous one until there is a 
myriad of fans, masses of yellow, fan-kicks 
and finally thundered applause. The aud
ience rewards the dancers with a standing 
ovation and the dancers applaude the aud
ience. They had been entertained, a mes
sage had been delivered, and the final cur
tain closed.
One leaves the theater on a euphoric 
cloud. It was a sublime two days, not likely 
to be repeated until the Alvin Ailey City 
Center Dance Theater returns to Pitts
burgh.
famous former Minstrels are John Denver, 
Kenny Rogers and Karen Black.
Sisters of Alpha Kappa Alpha, the oldest
black womens sorority in the nation, will 
host a cabaret Friday, February 28. The 
event is sponsored by the University of 
Pittsburgh (Iota) and city-wide (Alpha 
Sigma) chapters. It will be held at Mellon 
Center on the campus of Chatham College 
from 10 pm to 3 am. The music will be 
provided by Phase III. Tickets are S4 per 
person, and the event is B.Y.O.B. Tickets 
may be purchased from sorority sisters or 
at the Pitt or Duquesne Student Union 
Ticket Offices.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-February 18, 1975
Case Tops 
CMU 69-62Pictures talk. Some littleboys dont
Some inner cities have special schools. For 
little boys who dont talk.Not mute little boys. But children so withdrawn 
so afraid of failure, they cannot make the slightest 
attempt to do anything at which they might fail.
Some dont talk. Some dont listen. Most dont 
behave. And all of them dont learn.
One day someone asked us to help.
Kodak responded by working with the teachers. 
Showed them how, through the language of pictures, 
the children could communicate as they never could 
before. And the teachers sent the kids out to take 
pictures with their cameras.
And then the miracle. Little boys who had never 
said anything, looked at the pictures and began to 
talk. They said "This is my house. This is my dog. 
"This is where I like to hide. They began to explain,
to describe, to communicate. And once the chan
nels of communication had been opened, they 
began to learn.What does Kodak stand to gain from this? Well, 
were showing how our products can help a teacher 
and maybe creating a whole new market. And 
were also cultivating young customers who will 
someday buy their own cameras and film. But more 
than that, were cultivating alert, educated citizens. 
Who will someday be responsible for our society.
After all, our business depends on society. So 
we care what happens to it.
Kodak.
More than a business.
by Dave Kanner
I thought we played really well, but 
they just outshot us and Blaine Taylor 
killed us on the boards. We just couldnt 
stop their shots. We even had to play a man *
on man for the entire second half and most 
of the first half. Those were the words of 
a dejected Chuck DAngelo describing 
CMUs 69-62 loss to Case Western Reserve 
in Cleveland on Saturday.
That was pretty much the story of the 
game. The Tartans were 53% from the 
field in the first half but how can you stop 
a team thats 66%? The answer is you <]
cant. The first half of play was a wild and 
wooly shooting match with the score being 
tied seven times in the first 10 minutes.
Case finally took the lead permanently, 
25-22, with 10:17 to play in the half on a 
17 footer by Phil Hahn. The lead grew to 
as much as 11, 35-24 with 6 and a half 
minutes to play, as Blaine Taylor, Brad 
Carl and Alex Harnocy combined for 10 |
straight points for the Spartans. Some good 
team defense and the hot shooting of guard 
Chuck DAngelo brought the team back to 
within five. A 20 foot jump shot by Greg 
Chambers with 5 seconds on the clock 
pulled the Tartans to a 45-41 deficit at 
halftime.
CMU pulled off their typical 
fold-in-the-second-half trick, making only 
31% of their field goal attempts. They were 
aided by the cold shooting of the Spartans 
who managed a dismal 29% for the second 
half, but despite this, the Tartans never got 
closer than 5. Blaine Taylor became a one 
man army on the boards for Case, hauling 
12 rebounds in the second half; (18 for 
; game). CMUs big guns Paul Hamerly, 
Chambers, and Dane Wukich, who % 
combined for 31 first half points, 
scored 18 of the teams 21 second half 
points. Hamerly was once again high man 
for the Tartans with 18 points followed by 
with 16 (7 of 12 from the field) 
and Chambers with 15 (7 of 11 from the 
field). Dennis Derringer was the top 
rebounder for CMU with 9. Blaine Taylor 
le*d all scorers with a magnificent 13 of 16 |
performance for 27 points.
Earlier in the week, the St. Vincent 
Bearcats downed the Tartans 83-46 in a 
non-conference eame
CMUFGFTFT ATOT
Derringer2004
Chambers71415
Hamerlyg0018
Ward1123
Wukich72216
D'Angelo3006
Jason0000
Boykins0000
Bonn0000
294862
CWRUFGFTFT ATO
Taylor131227
Carl52212
Hahn54514
Allen1002
Harnocz50010
Davis1002
Termini1002
Genaro0000
317969

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 18, 1975Page 21
Crapplers 
Beat Case
by G. B. Gordo
The wrestling team exhibited some 
sinusoidal characteristics during the course 
of the past week. After soundly defeating 
Bethany two Saturdays ago, the all of a 
sudden timid Tartans dropped a 39-9 
decision to the tough Tomcats of Thiel. 
However, they were able to rebound from 
the loss and down the Case Tech Spartans 
by the score of 25 to 18. Ignoring the 
details of the Thiel match, let us switch our
attention to the match at Case.
At the lightest weight class, freshman 
Dan Boger won his match on riding time,
7-6. After the regulation time had expired, 
Dan had scored the same number of points 
as his opponent but since he had 
maintained the top position for a minute 
longer than his Case man, he was awarded 
one extra point and therefore won the 
match.
At 126 pounds, Cases Jeff Talbert 
recorded a pin over the Tartanss A1 
McCurdy to give the Spartans a 6-3 match 
score lead.
The table turned the other way for the 
Tartans as Steve Johnson won his third 
straight match by posting a fall at 4 
minutes and 29 seconds. The confident
Johnson had some difficulty at first but 
was eventually able to subdue his opponent 
after a struggle. Freshman 142 pounder Bill
Aldridge continued the momentum for the 
Tartans as he piled up some back points to 
defeat his opponent by a 10-2 score.
Dave Weeber paved the way for a 
substantial Tartan lead as he clobbered Kar 
Schwarz from Case 13-0, giving the team 4 
more match points and bringing the overall 
score to 16 for the CMU squad as opposed 
to only six for the Spartans.
Joe Stas lost at 167 pounds to the third 
place finisher in last years PAC 
tournament, while 167 pounder Bruce 
Andrews edged out a 4-3 win over Bruce
Stambaugh.
Ken Goldfarb lost 8-5 to lanky Ted 
Rader. Ken, who seemed to have the match 
in hand, ran out of gas in the third period 
and was unable to hold on for a win. The 
highlight of the day was Tom Locfflers pin 
of 4th place PAC finisher Joe Miller. Tom, 
a native Clevelander, put the match on ice 
with a fall at 3 minutes and 32 seconds, 
bringing the team score to 25-12 in favor 
of the Tartans. In an anticlimactic finale, 
Cases John Kosko pinned CMITs first year 
wrestler Bob Hantz, closing the gap to 
25-18 as the match ended with another 
victory for the Tartan wrestling squad.
Hewlett-Packard introduces a smaller uncompromising calculator: the HP-21 Scientific.
$125,001
JjDMiM  W t.  T T * ^ A C K Ay t> I
Now $125.00 buys:
More power than our HP-35. 32 pre-pro
grammed functions and operations vs. 22 for 
our HP-35. The HP-21 performs all log and 
trig functions, the latter in radians or degrees. 
Its our only calculator short of the HP-45 that 
lets you:
 convert polar to rectangular coordinates, and 
back again (->P, ->R) ;
 do full register arithmetic (M + , M, MX,
M-O;
 calculatc a common antilog (10X) with a 
single keystroke.
The HP-21 also performs all basic data 
manipulations (1/x, yx, Vx^ ,r) and executes 
all pre-programmed functions in one second or 
less. In sum, its designed to solve tomorrows 
problems as well as today's.
Smaller size. 6 ounces vs. 9 ounces for our 
HP-35.
Full display formatting. The display key (DSP) 
lets you choose between fixed decimal and 
scientific notation and lets you control the num
ber of places displayed. (The HP-21 always 
uses all 10 digits internally.)
If a number is too large or small for fixed 
decimal display, the HP-21 switches automati
cally to scientific. It never confuses a smaller 
number with zero.
Finally, if you give the HP-21 an impossible 
instruction, the Display spells E-r-r-o-r.
RPN logic system. Heres what this unique 
logic system means for you:
 You can evaluate any expression without 
copying parentheses, worrying about hierar
chies or re-structuring beforehand.
 You can solve all problems your waythe 
way you now use when you use a slide rule.
 You solve all problemsno matter how com
plexone step at a time. You never work 
with more than two numbers at once.
 You see all intermediate answers immediately. 
The HP-21 executes each function immedi
ately after you press the function key.
 You can easily backtrack when you err. The 
^IH^^^pei^mT^al^pe^ions^e^uendan^
 You can re-use numbers without re-entering 
them. The HP-21 becomes your scratch pad.
H-P quality craftsmanship. One reason Nobel 
Prize winners, astronauts, conquerors of Ever
est, Americas Cup navigators and over 500,000 
other professionals own H-P calculators.
Your bookstore will give you a demonstra
tion today. Challenge our new HP-21 with 
your problems. See for yourself how much per
formance $125.00* can buy. If your bookstore 
doesnt have the HP-21 yet, call us at 800- 
538-7922 (in Calif. 800-662-9862) for the 
name of a dealer who does.
HEZLETT iW PACKARD
Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries.
Dept. 658, 19310 Pruneridge Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014
<i *jm
Suggested retail pricc excluding applicable state ami local taxes 
Continental U S A., Alaska & Hawaii.

---------------------------------------------------

  ' -...
Hamerly & Co. Whip Thiel
by Joel Coran
Page 22THE TARTANFebruary 18, 1975
In an extremely hard fought game this 
past Wednesday at Tech Gym, the CMU 
Tartans managed to squeeze by Thiel 
College 55-54. The first half was 
dominated by the offensive play of Paul 
Hamerly, who ended up with 21 points, 
and by Rich Freeburg, the Thiel center, 
who finished with 19. Going into the 
locker room at *he half, Theil held the lead
by a slim 33-31 margin. But it was in the 
second half that the fireworks really 
started to go off. With about 10 minutes
left in the game, Thiels Tony 
Pompeliathe fourth leading scorer in the 
PAC with a 16 PPG averagegot into a 
vicious fight with the Tartanss Dennis 
Derringer, which resulted in the eviction of 
both forwards from the game. From that 
point on, the play could have only been 
described as physical. It was still a 
seesaw ballgame, when at 1:48 remaining 
and Thiel maintaining a 52-51 lead, CMU 
reserve guard Billy Boykins hit a 25 foot 
jump shot, giving the Tartans a 53-52 edge. 
Thiel was obviously rattled, and in their 
haste to swing the ballgame back into their 
control, threw an errant pass out of 
bounds. This was followed by an easy 
lay-up at 0:37 by Tartan guard Dane 
Wukich, icing the game for the Tartans. At 
the buzzer, CMUwith a 55-52 
leadallowed Rich Freeburg to go in 
unmolested for a lay-up, and CMU had 
escaped with a shaky 55-54 victory.
Behind Paul Hamerly, the other Tartan 
in double figures for the night was Dane 
Wukich with 15 points. Hamerly also 
picked off a total of 14 rebounds. Rich 
Freeburg led Thiel with 19 points and was 
followed by forward Bob Campbell with 
17.
The game also featured the return to the 
line-up of Tartan guard Chuck DAngelo, 
who had been sidelined with a foot injure
THIELFGFTFT ATOT
Freeburg91519
Campbell81117
Pompelia3006
Fox3137
Thiel1143
Simons1002
Fontine0000
to
CM
*1354
CMUFGFTFTATOT
Derringer3127
Chambers4008
Hamerly101321
Ward0000
Wukich71115
D'Angelo1002
Boykins1002
Klein0000
Bonn0000
263655
UPCOMING SPORTS EVENTS
Basketballmen
Feb 19 W&J, away 8:00*
Feb 22 Hiram, home 2:00
Feb 26 Allegheny, away 8:00*
Feb 28 Geneva, home 8:00*
Basketballwomen 
Feb 19 W85Vo away 6:00
Feb 26Indiana, home 5:00
Mar 1Cal. St., home 6:00
Mar 3Bethany, away 7:00
Hockey
Feb 22Duquesne, Civic Arena 1:00
Feb 28 -St. Francis, Johnstown 4:30
Mar 1PS(McKeesport), Civic Arena 3:00
Wrestling
Feb 18Westminster, away 7:30
Feb 22Behrend, away 2:00
Feb 28 toPAC Championships at Thiel
Mar 1 
Swimming
Feb 22Grove City, away 3:00
Feb 28 toPAC Championships at Allegheny
Mar 1
* Will be broadcast on WRCT
bucket.
I. M. News
by Mike Pochan
Out of a field of nine top-notch teams, 
four remain to enter the playoffs in major 
league IM basketball: ATO, Pride, Salt and 
Pepper, and Beta-Ai
ATO shows one loss, Pride and Salt and 
Pepper two, and Beta three. The outcome 
of the protest of the game between ATO 
and Pride will make no difference, but the 
protest of a game between the Orangatangs 
and PIKA might.
PIKA defeated the Orangatangs in 
double overtime 53-48 to hand the 0s 
their fourth loss and a boot out of the 
playoffs. The point under protest is a 
decision by the referees at the end of the 
first period of overtime.
Orangatangss Bilobron was at the foul 
line with the score tied and only a few 
seconds left on the clock. He put up his 
shot and it was good, supposedly making 
the Orangatangs the victors.
Wrong. The referees claimed that time 
had expired before he shot and the game 
went into the second overtime period 
where PIKA dominated to win by 5. The 
Orangatangs and a few observers claim that 
time had not run out and that Bilobron 
had shot in time.
Thus, a protest that may or may not 
change the playoff lineup.
PIKA went out in style on the last day 
of the season, nipping playoff-bound Pride 
49-41. Jay Harper was high scorer with 12 
points. PIKA just missed the playoffs with 
four losses.
Sometimes we find we have nothing to give
but love which is a poem 
which I give for the Black Revolution. NG68
NIKKI 
GIOVANNI
POET
8:30BALLROOM 
4:30WORKSHOP 
WHERRETT ROOM MARCH 3,MONDAY
SPONSORED BY THE AB LECTURES.
FREE WITH CMU ID

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 18, 1975-Page 23
CMU Takes First Loss
by Dave Girdany
Poor refereeing and sub-par play cost 
CMU its first loss on Saturday, February
15 at the Civic Arena, as Pitt defeated the 
Tartans by an 8-3 score. The game got off 
to a good start with CMU getting the first 
ten shots on goal in the game and jumping 
to a 3-1 lead at the end of the first period. 
In that period good forechecking and 
hustle on the part of the Tartans led to this 
well-deserved lead. Goals by Dave 
Cornelius, Matt Goldsmith, and Mike 
Kenworthy easily offset Denny Brownes 
goal, scored while the Panthers had a two 
man advantage.
The last two periods of the game, 
though, told a different story. Pitt blitzed 
CMU 7-0 to secure their 8-3 victory. The 
Tartans just did not play their game, didnt 
carry the action to the Panthers, and 
suffered for it. The referee also seemed to 
contribute to the situation, apparently 
ignoring Pitts roughhouse play. But the 
one most noticeable factor was the absenct 
of CMLTs star defenseman, Larr Stuever. 
While Larry was off the ice to attend to a 
minor injury in the second period, Pitt 
scored three goals to turn a 3-2 deficit into 
a 5-3 lead. In the third period, Larry was 
given a 10 minute misconduct for no good 
reason, and during this period, Pitt 
increased its lead to 8-3.
While the refereeing did seem to aid 
Pitt, CMU was outplayed by Pitt for two 
periods. But this writer looks for a 
dilierent result next time. Tom Grimm will 
return to center. Matt Goldsmith and Dave 
Cornelius, and Mike Kenworthy will move 
back to defense, giving CMU the strongest
defense in the league-Mike, Larry, Rich 
Eastman, and Bill Miller. The five goal loss 
is not indicative of true Tartan hockey. 
CMU is the best team in the WPIHA.
In action earlier in the week, CMU 
defeated St. Vincent 7-1 on Sunday, 
February 9, in Greensburg. Mike 
Kenworthy and Dave Cornelius led the 
Tartans; Mike had two goals and three 
assists, and Dave had four assists.
SCORING SUMMARY 
CMU vs PITT
First Period: (1) CMU-Cornelius 5 (Goldsmith, 
Kenworthy) 4:25 (2) CMU-Goldsmith 8
(Kenworthy) 9:42 (3) Pitt-Browne (Gideon) 
12:27 (4) CMU-Kenworthy 7 (Cornelius,
Goldsmith) 14:15
Second Period: (5) Pitt-Vernon 1:56 (6)
Pitt-Vernon (Day) 6:49 (7) Pitt-Saunders
(Crisanti) 7:43 (8) Pitt-Vernon 8:11 
Third Period: (9) Ditt-Gideon (Crisanti) 2:34 (10) 
Pitt-Browne (Crisanti, Finney) 8:44 (11)
Pitt-Hagins (Day, Gideon) 9:27
Doug Johnston (30) stops Denny Brown._______photo by Eliot Popowitz
CMU vs ST. VINCENT 
First Period: (1) CMU-Kenworthy 5 (Cornelius) 
0:13 (2) CMU-Goldsmith 6 (Kenworthy,
Cornelius) 10:41 (3) CMU-Stuever 7 (Eberle) 
11:54 (4) CMU-Kenworthy 13:06 
Second Period: (5) CMU-Stuever 8 (Cornelius, 
Kenworthy) 2:19
Third Period: (6) SV-Carlton (DeFelice, Vance) 
8:16 (7) CMU-Hauser 6 (Miller) 10:47 (8) 
CMU-Goldsmith 7 (Kenworthy, Cornelius) 13:16
Rich Eastman (21) meets Pitt defense.photo by Eliot Popowitz
Swimmers Win Meet
by Diane Maddock
The CMU swim team was victorious 
over Case Western Reserve University on 
Saturday, January 15 with a score of 
57-56. The CMU swimmers were behind 
until the last relay. And when they needed 
a win in an event the swimmers came 
through with a team record time. The 
spirits of the team couldnt have been 
higher. They knew it would be close and 
they didnt let the pressure affect them. 
CMU got close decisions against them in 3 
consecutive events: 200 free style, 50 free 
style and 200 IM. The momentum of the 
game turned around after the 400 free and 
the team excelled to a victory. The team 
record is 3-3 in the PAC race. Theres one 
meet left at Grove City. Then on to the 
PAC championships at Allegheny College 
on February 26-28.
IT'S
YOURS$100
A MONTH
FOR ALL JUNIORS AND 
SEINTIORS IN THE ROTC 
PROGRAM
PLUS THE OPPORTUNITY TO QUALIFY FOR A FULL-TUITION 
ROTC SCHOLARSHIP lr 1 rua ROTC rmeNyaCb kbeibCn Cgt
IT'S THIS SIMPLE FOR ANY SOPHOMORE TO ENROLL.
1. ATTEND A SIX-WEEK CAMP BETWEEN YOUR SOPHOMORE AND JUNIOR 
YEARS
2. ENROLL IN THE ROTC ADVANCED COURSE WHEN YOU RETURN TO 
SCHOOL IN THE FALL.
MAKE YOUR LAST TWO YEARS AT CMU MEAN EVEN MORE
For More Information Contact: Captain Gregory Nosal
ROTC Department 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
Room 203, Gymnasium 
621-2600 Ext. 281/282

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24-THE TARTAN-February 18, 1975
We cannot tell a lie
\bull save up to 80% on quality LPs and boxed sets!
1. THE CLASSICAL GUITARAll 
the great masters including Andres Se
govia, Montoya, Williams, DePlata and 
many others5 record set
NOW ONLY 89.98
2. ANTHOLOGY OF FOLK MUSIC 
including more than 50 pieces by 
Pete Seeger, Woody Guthrie, Rod McKuen, Leadbelly, John Lee Hooker, 
Lightnin Hopkins and others 5 re
cord set NOW ONLY S9.98
3. THE BEST OF THE BLUES 
A superb collection featuring the re
nowned Brownie & Sonny. Ray Charles, 
Memphis Slim, Otis Spann, Big Bill 
Broonsy, Big Joe Williams and others 
3 record set NOW ONLY $6.98
i. MY FAVORITE CHOPINHIS 
MOST FAMOUS W ORKS Piano Con
certo No. 2, Op. 21. Piano Sonata 
No. 2, Op. 35. 5 Polonaises, FantasieImpromptu, 17 Waltzes. 6 Etudes, 3 
Nocturnes and more5 record set 
featuring S. Richter, W. Klien, P. 
Frankl. I. Haebler and other great 
pianists NOW ONLY $9.98
5. THE BEST OF MOZARTHIS 
MOST FAMOUS ORCHESTRAL 
WORKS: I-ine Kleine Nachtmusic, 
Serenata Notturna. Overture to Magic 
Flute and Marriage of Figaro. Sym
phonies No. 31, 36. 38. 40 in G Minor, 
No. 41 Jupiter, Europe' finest orches
tras represented4 record set
NOW ONLY $8.98
6. THE BEST OF JOHANN
STR ALSSHis m<*st famous waltzes 
and overtures, including Blue Danulie, 
Gypsy Baron, The Emperor and twelve 
other favorites . . . featuring Edward 
Strauss and his Symphonic Orchestra 
3 record set NOW ONLY $6.98
7. A ROMANTIC REVIVAL includ 
ing works by Anton Rubinstein, Alex
ander Scriabin, Hector Berlioz, Isaac 
Aibeniz and others. Soloists include 
Michael Ponti, Aaron Rosand and 
Peter Thalheimer5 record set
NOW ONLY $9.98
8. A TREASURY OF ORGAN
CLASSICSBach, Toccata & Fugue in 
D Minor, 5 Choral Preludes, Pastorale 
in F Major, Fantasia in G Major, Pre
lude & Fugue in E & C featuring Walter 
Kraft. Mozart Sonata No. 4 for Organ, 
Helmuth Rilling. Organist plus many 
other favorite organ classics5 record 
set NOW ONLY$9.98
9. HANDEL'S MESSIAH
The Complete oratorio features the 
London Philharmonic Orchestra and 
Choir under the direction of Sir Adrian 
Boult3 record set
NOW ONLY $6.98
10. STRAVINSKY AND HIS MUSIC 
Limited Editionincluding Petrouchka. Rite of Spring, Firebird 
Suite, Symphony of Psalms and other 
pieces. London Philharmonic Orches
tra conducted by Ernest Ansermet 
4 record set NOW ONLY $8.98
11. TCHAIKOVSKYHIS FINEST
MUSIC - "Limited Edition of the 
master s piano music includes Concerto 
No. 1 in B Flat, Concerto No. 2 in G, 
Concerto No. 3 in E Flat, Concert 
Fantasy. Features brilliant piano vir
tuosity of Michael Ponti3 record 
set NOW ONLY $6.98
12. WORLDS GREATEST 
CELLISTS featuring Pablo Casals 
plaving Beethoven Archduke Trio and 
works by Pierre Fournier and Janos 
Starker3 record set
NOW ONLY $6.98
13. MOZARTS MOST FAMOUS 
PIANO MUSICElvira Madigan by 
Walter Klien; Concerto in A Major, 
Christoph Eschenbach; Paul BaduraSkoda. D Minor Concerto; Alfred Brendel. Mozart's B Flat Concerto; others 
by Ingrid Haebler and Peter Frankl 
-3 record set NOW ONLY $6.98
14. THE VERY BEST OF DVORAK 
Includes his New World Symphony 
No. 9, Leopold Ludwig conducting 
the London Symphony Orchestra plus 
the famous Cello Concerto and his 
equally well regarded String Quartet 
in F plus his piano music and Slavonic 
Dances4 record set
NOW ONLY $8.98
15. AMERICANA  This collection 
includes Grofes Grand Canyon Suite, 
Gershwins American in Paris, MacDowells Piano Concerto No. 2, Bern
steins Candide Overture, Ives 4th of 
July and Washingtons Birthday Suites, 
Goulds American Salute and other 
famous pieces3 record set
NOW ONLY $6.98
16. THE CLASSICAL BALLETIn 
eluding the beloved Nutcracker Suite, 
Swan Lake, Delibes-Coppelia, and Syl
via Suites, Giselle and Chopins Les 
Sylphides3 record setNOW ONLY $6.98
20. RAVEL  DEBUSSYOutstand
ing collection of these great composers 
works includes Nocturnes, Claire de 
Lune, LaMer, Mother Goose Suite, 
Iberia, Arabesque, La Valse, Bolero 
and many other beloved pieces. So
loists include Peter Frankl, Abbey 
Simon, Walter Klien5 record set
NOW ONLY $9.98
21. BAROQUE HORN AND TRUM
PET AT THEIR FINEST Featuring 
the renowned Maurice Andre & Adolf 
Scherbaum playing works by Corelli, 
Purcell, Handel, Vivaldi, Haydn, Mo
zart, Albinoni, Telemann, J. S. Bach 
and Torelli5 record set
NOW ONLY $9.98
m
17. BACHS BRANDENBURG CON
CERTOS1-6, plus the well known 
triple Concerto in A Minor, Harp
sichord Concerto No. 1 in D Minor 
featuring Bach Collegium and the Wurttenberg Chamber Orchestra3 re
cord set NOW ONLY $6.98
18. GUSTAV MAHLERSymphony 
of a Thousand (Symphony No. 8), 
Dimitri Mitropoulos conducting the 
Vienna Festival Orchestra. Symphony 
No. 2 Resurrection, Otto Klemperer 
conducting the Vienna Symphony Or
chestra3 record set
NOW ONLY $6.98
19. SONS OF B ACHWorks of Carl
Phillip Emmanuel Bach, Concerto in 
D Minor for Flute, J. P. Rampal, so
loist, Orchestra conducted by Pierre 
Boulez. Wilhelm F. Bach, Sinfonia for 
Two Flutes, Johann C. Bach, Sinfonia 
for double orchestra, Bassoon Con
certo in E and many more3 record 
set NOW ONLY $6.98
22. BEETHOVENS NINTH AND 
FIFTH SYMPHONIES-COMPLETEAn award winning set featuring Josef 
Krips conducting the Vienna Festival 
Orchestra2 record set
NOW ONLY $4.98
23. BEETHOVENS PIANO SONA
TASAlfred Brendel, pianist. A su
perb new stereo set featuring the fa
mous Pathetique, Tempest, Moonlight, 
Waldstein, Appassionata, Les Adieux 
Sonatas3 record setNOW ONLY $6.98
24. THE BEST OF THE BLUES 
VOLUME 2An unusually attractive 
collection of blues greats including 
Bessie Smith, John Hammond, Rev. 
Gary Davis, Junior Wells, Jimmy Cot
ton, Otis Rush, Louis Armstrong, King 
Oliver, Otis Spann, Billie Holliday 
and many others3 record set
NOW ONLY $6.98
25. GREGORIAN CHANTSA new
stereo recording of the immortal and 
. ost revered of medieval church music 
performed by French Monks as it wa9 
many hundreds of years ago3 record 
set NOW ONLY $6.98
26. ANTHOLOGY OF FOLK MUSIC 
VOLUME 2Outstanding favorites
not seen before in any other set. In
cludes works by: Memphis Slim, Sonny 
and Terry, Pete Seeger, John Lee 
Hooker, Lightnin Hopkins, Clancy 
Brothers, Odetta, Josh White and many 
others4 record set
NOW ONLY $8.98
27. BEST OF HAYDN
Including No. 94 in 
G Major Surprise, No. 101, The 
Clock, No. 104, London, and many 
other favorites by Leopold Ludwig, 
Jascha Horenstein and the Vienna Sym
phony, Alfred Brendel and the Fine 
Arts Quartet4 record set
NOW ONLY $8.98
28. BEETHOVEN CONCF.RTIHis 
most famous works including Nos. 3, 
4 and 5 featuring Alfred Brendel, 
pianist3 record setNOW ONLY $6.98
29. MOZART COMPLETE WIND 
CONCERTIIncluding Clarinet Con
certo, Bassoon Concerto,-Flute Concerti. Concerto for Flute and Harp, 
Horn Concerti and Sinfonia Concertante4 record set
NOW ONLY $8.98
30. MUSIC OF THE GUITAR, LUTE
AND MANDOLINIncluding works 
by Vivaldi, Torell', Giuliani, Bocche
rini, Haydn, Weber, Beethoven, Schu
bert, Hummel and Carulli4 record 
set NOW ONLY $8.98
31. BACH COMPLETE CONCERTI
Johann Sebastian Bachs concerti 
except Brandenburgs. An exceptional 
collection of the masters works5 
record set NOW ONLY $9.98
32. GREAT RUSSIAN MASTERPIE
CESThe fabulous 1812 Overture by 
Tchaikovsky and many other works by 
Rimsky-Korsakov, Mussorgsky, Boro
din, Prokofiev, Gliere and Khachatu
rian and others - An exciting collection 
of great music4 record set
NOW ONLY .$8.98
2 RECORD SET $11.98
3 RECORD SET $17.98
SCHWANN CATALOG LIST 
OUR PRICE $4.98 4 RECORD SET $23.98
OUR PRICE $6.98 5 RECORD SET $29.98
OUR PRICE $8.98 
OUR PRICE $9.98
33. THE BEST OF SCHUBERTAll
of his great works including the Trout 
Quintet, Impromptus, Symphonies No.
9, No. 8, Rosamunde and the Moments 
Musicaux. Soloists include Alfred 
Brendel and featuring the Berlin Phil
harmonic Orchestra, Furtwngler con
ducting4 record set
NOW ONLY $8.98
34. MENDELSSOHNS FINEST 
His Concerto for Piano and Orchestra, 
for Violin and Orchestra plus the fa
mous Midsummer Nights Dream, Sym
phony No. 4, Concert Overtures and 
his Songs Without Words. A fantastic 
3 record set NOW ONLY $6.98
BEETHOVEN
PIANO SONATAS 
ALFRED BRENDEL
35. THE BEST OF BRAHMSThe 
Piano Concerto No. 2, the Violin Con
certo in D Major, Symphony No. 3, 
fabulous Hungarian Dances and his 
great waltzes. Featuring Leopold Sto
kowski conducting, soloists include . . 
David Oistrakh and Walter Klien. A 
fine 4 record set
NOW ONLY $8.98
36. TWENTIETH CENTURY 
CLASSICSA stunning set including 
works by Bartk, Berg, Stravinsky, 
Schoenberg, Ravel, Hindemith, Pro
kofiev, Debussy and Janacek. A fantas
tic collection of favorites4 record 
set NOW ONLY $8.98
37. BEETHOVEN COMPLETE NINE 
SYMPHONIES  William Steinberg 
conducting the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra8 record set
NOW ONLY $14.98
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE
Sale ends March 7
Cant come in? Tear out this ad, circle the records you want, and mail it in! Be sure to mark your envelope with the words Record Sale. Include 35 C per album for postage and handling.
