VOL. 42No. 11CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1948
Mens And Womens Glee Clubs 
Schedule December Programs
Men Broadcast 
Coast-to-Coast 
On ABC Network
f With two of its concerts al
ready behind them, the Mens 
Glee club is busy polishing up 
their repertoire for a radio broad
cast over station WCAE. The pro
gram will be heard on Tuesday 
evening, December 14, from 7:30 
to 7:45.
This will be a preview broadcast 
for the Pittsburgh area of a show 
which will be transcribed and re
broadcast coast-to-coast over the 
American Broadcasting companyy 
Although the actual choral selec
tions are not definite as yet, the 
program will be composed largely 
of songs for the Christmas season.
t
tTau Beta Pi 
Technical Goes 
On Sale Today
Technical goes on sale today and 
Thursday between 11:15 and 1:30 
in Skibo and Administration hall.
This is designated as the Tau 
Beta Pi issue since all of the arti
cles were written by members of 
the organization. John N. Grace 
wrote the feature article on elec
troencephalography. He won a 
trip to Mexico City sponsored by 
the A.I.E.E. with this article.
Other articles include the prize 
winning Tau Beta Pi pledge esj say by Millard F. Brown on En
gineering Education, the civil en
gineering article by Vernor H. 
Neubert on Bridge Vibrations, 
the physics article by Robert Sie
gel on Mass Spectrometry,, and 
the chemical article by Graham 
Renberg on Catalytic Processes.
Type size of titles is smaller in 
the new layout, and more layout 
^ changes are being contemplated in 
the future.
Women To Give 
Christmas Concert 
Tomorrow
Carnegie Techs Womens Glee 
club will begin its December pro
gram of activities tomorrow after
noon, at the Oakland Baptist 
church. Together with a vocal 
ensemble, the club will present as 
special soloists Lois Hibbard and 
Elynor Bruce, violinist; and Sylka 
Steinberg, vocalist.
Tomorrow evening, the club will 
present a concert of Christmas 
music at the Swissvale Presby
terian church. Plans are under 
way for carol singing at Morewood Gardens on December 12.
Included in the various pro
grams will be an arrangement of 
The Coventry Carol by Wal
lingford Riegger, featuring solos 
by Marion Armstrong and Sylvia 
Davis and directed by Estelle Berenfield. Sylka Steinberg, soprano 
and Virginia Rowley, alto, will 
sing the solo parts in Nobel Cain 
carol-style composition, Welcome 
That Star.
Virginia Rowley is the student 
manager of the club tl^ year 
Miss Carolyn B. Kennedy is the 
clubs director.
Eight Game 
49 Grid Card 
Is Announced
Bethany, St. Francis 
Added To Next Years 
Football Calendar
Director of Intercollegiate Ath
letics, Clarence (Buddy) Overend, 
released Carnegie Techs 1949 foot
ball schedule this morning. The 
schedule calls for nine games, five 
to be played away and four at 
Forbes field.
Six of the past seasons oppo
nents are on the schedule, with a 
home game yet to be scheduled 
for November 26.
The two new teams on the Plaid 
schedule are Bethany college and 
St. Francis college of Loretto, Pa. 
The schedule follows:
Oct. 1Bethany at Bethany, W. Va. 
Oct. 8St. Francis at Forbes Field 
Oct. 15F. & M. at Lancaster, Pa. 
Oct. 22Case at Cleveland, Ohio 
Oct. 29W. & J. at Washington, Pa. 
Nov. 5Marietta at Marietta, Ohio 
Nov. 12Lehigh at Forbes Field 
Nov. 19Grove City at Forbes Field 
Nov. 26(pending) at Forbes Field
Council Finally Finds 
Solution to Key Problem
Councilman Siegel And Committee
Present New Plan For Awards
By Burt Kimmel
Council surprised many onlookers and probably itself last week 
when councilman Siegel, chairman of the special Points and Keys 
Committee, delivered his report oh the key problem. This commit
tees solution of an old CIT problem stood out as one of the few 
examples of really efficient work done by Council all year. It pro?vides for one key per person and 
the award is based on importance,
YM-YWCA Dance
The YMCA and YWCA will 
jointly hold a pre-Christmas 
square dance in Thistle hall on 
Friday evening, December 10, 
from 8:00 until 12:00. Tickets 
may be purchased at the door.
Spring Carnival Committee 
Chairmen Appointments Made
Preliminary work on the 1949 
Spring Carnival, scheduled for 
mid-May, has begun with the ap
pointment of committee chairmen 
by general chairman J. K. OHare.
Chairmen and their committees, 
are as follows: budget, Tom Hall; 
midway, Vince Prus; band, Rob
ert Paustian; tickets, Ernest Snoyer; sweepstakes, Jack Johnson; 
technical, Clark Sloan; publicity, 
Stan Siegel; coronation, Joe Vogan; float, A1 Mitchell; program, 
Willis Boothe and John Fockler; 
and concessions, Gerry Meyers.
The committee chairmen will 
shortly submit preliminary budget 
estimates and will begin organiz
ing their committees. Any un
dergraduates who wish to work 
on any of the committees may 
do so by contacting the particu
lar chairman he wishes to work 
for.
Game Tonight
Carnegies home basketball 
season will open tonight when 
the Tartan squad entertains 
Steubenville college in the 
gym at 8:30. Arrangements for 
this game were just recently 
made so it does not appear on 
any of the printed schedules.
New Type Key 
Is Designed
New Gold Key Given 
Only On Application
Carnegies new activities key 
system proposed by the committee 
composed of Stan Siegel, Marilyn 
Allshouse, and J. K. OHare has 
won the approval of Student 
Council. It will go into effect near 
the beginning of the spring semes
ter.
A new type key with the letters 
CIT in gold will be the only type 
given for activities and will be 
awarded by application only. 
Heads of activities will be re
quired to write in the application 
the number of points given to a 
student and the justification for 
their award.
Students may qualify in three 
different ways for .a key. One will 
automatically be awarded the edi
tor and business manager of the 
Tartan, Thistle, Scottie and Tech
nical, president of Scotch and 
Soda, and chairman of Spring 
Carnival. Keys may be awarded 
for longevity of service if a stu
dent has two years active partici
pation in two activities or three 
years active participation in one 
activity.
A student will also be eligible 
for a key if he or she has sufficient 
points based on the new womens 
point system or the Delta SkullScimitar mens point system. Be
cause of the difference in the two 
systems, men will require 25 
tContinued on page 5]
ODK Initiates Eleven New Members
Banquet at University 
Club Will Follow 
Ceremony on Friday
Omicron Delta Kappas eleven 
new members, chosen from among 
the senior men on the basis of 
leadership and activities, will be 
honored at an initiation banquet 
at the University club on Friday 
evening, December 10.
At the initiation ceremonies in 
the Carnegie Union, preceding the 
banquet, Walter J. Blenko, chair
man of the executive committee of 
the Board of Trustees, and Dr. 
Douglas F. Miner, director of stu
dent personnel and welfare, will 
be initiated along with the un
dergraduates. Mr. Blenko will be 
he main speaker at the dinner. 
Eleven undergraduates are now 
?^engaged in their pledge project, 
|||r which involves each man inves
tigating a problem facing the 
school or the students and pro
posing a solution.
These men, recently called to ODK, will be initiated Friday night. They are left to right, front 
row: Tom Hall, George Corrin, Bennard Perlman, Jim McGiffin, Jack Johnson; back row, Joe Vogan, 
Norm Frantz, Bill Boothe, Robert Faustian, Gerry Meyers. John Fockler is not shown.
length, and amount of service in 
an organization.
A change in the recently ap
proved bylaws of Council's new 
constitution, transfers of funds 
and a new budget organization, a 
report on the financial condition 
of several publications, and the 
approval of Dorm Council-spon
sored dances after the varsity 
basketball games were also ac
complished by Council last Wed
nesday.
Key Solution
Councilmen Siegel, OHare and 
Miss Allshouse should be well 
applauded for their work on the 
key problem, as they have solv
ed one of the more perplexing 
problems on this and a major
ity of other campuses. By restrict
ing each person to only one key, a 
great deal of money will be saved; 
and by placing stringent quali
fications on the awarding of the 
key, the importance of the award 
is magnified.
In this way, both the criticisms 
of expense and meaninglessness of 
the keys will be satisfied, while 
there will still be some way of re
warding those who have spent 
their time in extracurricular ac
tivities.
To receive the award of the 
CIT activities key, the student 
must qualify in any one of three 
manners. He must hold the top po
sition in one of the more import
ant activities, he must have serv
ed three years on one activity or 
two years on two, or he must 
have accumulated sufficient points 
from the various organizations 
based on a system set forth by 
the Points and Keys committee.
Council Secretary
Councilman Johns reported that 
Dean Dickinson had suggested 
avoiding the election of two sec
retaries. Of course we do not 
have to accept his suggestions, 
Johns stated. Much laughter fol
lowed this statement and Coun
cil promptly changed the num
ber to one and also specified that 
the candidates must be at least 
[Continued on page 3]
C Book Noiv 
At Bookstore
Carnegies student directory, the 
C book, may now be purchased 
at the book store for 40 cents acopy.
It is published by the college 
printing department and the De
partment of Public Relations, ud
der the direction of Stanley R. 
March, with student volunteer aid. 
The C book lists all register
ed students at Carnegie Tech with 
their name, course, year, home ad
dress, Pittsburgh address, and 
phone number.
Residents of Morewood Gar
dens are listed with the MG ab
breviation for the dormitory and 
also the tower and floor number. 
Listed at the front of the book is 
a telephone directory for Morewood Gardens, fraternities and 
mens dormitories.

---------------------------------------------------

3THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1948Carnegie T ar tan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief .................................................. Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ....................................................... Samuel Moses
Associate Editor .................................................. Burton L. Epstein
News EditorRobert Kubiak, Sports EditorPaul Offermann, Makeup EditorRalph Painter, Art EditorRussell F. Kulberg, Advertising ManagerArthur G. Zuch, Cir
culation ManagerLewis S. Sternberg.Copy EditorPat Petrick, Headline EditorMyra-Jane Barry, Proof EditorJohn Braun, Personnel Asst.Richard B. 
Mitchell, Asst. Business ManagerHerbert Stone, Asst. Ad
vertising ManagerMalcolm B. Samakow, Features AssistantFrank Roth, Chief ReportersJohn K. Fockler, Wil
liam Johns, Bennard Perlman, Catherine Rudy, Frances Hamborsky, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn, Chief PhotographerWilliam D. Benswanger.Copy StaffJohn Bornman, Charles Rainsalo, Mary Cauffield, Robert Cloud, Analee Gelman, Jane Lawton, Dianne Stitt, Elizabeth Asche, Features StaffA. Starke Drischell, Richard Drisko, Gene Feist, Jack Johnson, Edward Von Halle.Makeup StaffA1 Bader.
Senior ReporterBurt Kimmel.TypistsPatti McDermott, Wilma Dickson, Rodda Dean. ReportersJo Crisanti, Angela Pollis, Cub ReportersSally Bachman, Judy Block, Alan Blotky, Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Joyce Ertell, Dorothy Karns, Edward Koos, Shirley Levin, William Lyell, Sue MacFadden, Bee Potter, Jane Robb, Nancy Sitler, Michael Stavish, Anita Tabellini, Joann Williams, Nancy Will, Joan Blumenthal, Susan Flood, Laura Ehni.Sports StaffRobert Dougherty, Charles King, Warren 
Lithgow, Frederick Lunt.Photography StaffRichard Deininger.Business StaffMorty Baker, Edmund Denburg, Shirlee 
Goldenfeld, Marjorie Weinsweig, Bud Smith, Bob Powers, Mitch Bakon.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL AD
VERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907 at the 
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo
ber 21, 1918.
Editorials
Key Solution
Every now and then Student Council has one 
of those good days which make us think that 
perhaps it will soon be consistently active and 
intelligent in its activities.
Such a day was last Wednesday when the 
long-anticipated key report was made and quick
ly accepted. The new key system, the result of 
thorough, rather than superficial analysis, is a 
good example of the kind of work Council could 
do if it would consistently use the methods it now 
employs only sporadically.
We trust that Council will shortly recognize 
the value of intensive committee study of such 
problems as keys, and will make use of all the 
potentials at its fingertips, including the energy 
and ability of those Council members who have 
thus far not taken part in Council activities be
yond the point of merely attending meetings.
Another Chance
The C-Book is finally out. /
That the book is out at all is a credit to the 
Public Relations office and to the students who 
volunteered to do the hours of thankless work 
which were required.
But we think that someoneand Student 
Council would logically seem to be that some
oneshould look into the possibility of finding 
another method of publishing the book, so that it 
might be made available earlier in the year.
How the task ever devolved upon Public Re
lations is certainly a mystery, but that office does 
not have the facilities for doing the job. As long 
as no subsidy exists, and unpaid student aid 
must do the job there is almost certain to be 
an unwarranted delay in the publication date.
Council should look into the possibility of al
lowing some organization to take over the pub
lication of the C-Book, selling advertising, sell
ing the book for a nominal fee, and dividing 
its profits between itself and some campus pro
ject. This may not be the ideal solution, but a 
thorough inquiry by Council should turn up a 
better method than the one currently used.
On Cheating
Why do college students cheat in examina
tions?
Were we the first to ask this question we 
might feel somewhat profound, but it is probably 
as old as the present college system, if not much 
older. And it is just as much a problem at CIT 
as in most other colleges throughout the country.
Barring the prospect of an honor system, 
which seems both remote and impossible, we 
might inquire just what can be done to re
duce and eliminate what cheating does exist here.
It seems that there is a certain small percent
age of students who make it a practice to cheat, 
but when the proportion of students who cheat 
becomes large, the time has arrived for the 
instructor to re-evaluate his teaching and his 
attitude to make sure that he, rather than the 
students, is not the responsible party.
For there is certainly a strong possibility that 
the students inclination to cheat is heightened 
considerably by a sense of insecurity brought on 
by vague, confusing teaching methods.
.. These Hardy Pioneer WomenRevised Council 
Constitution Faces 
General Assembly
After ten months of tedious 
work on the revision of its con
stitution, Student Council finally 
placed the revised document be
fore yesterdays General Asserfibly held in the Carnegie theater.
Perhaps the main change in the 
constitution was the reduction of 
the size of council by three with 
the elimination of all non-voting 
members except the assistant sec
retary. The requirement was add
ed that the assistant secretary be 
elected from the junior class of 
the secretarial department, and 
that she be in addition to the reg
ular quota from MMCC. In her 
second semester on Council she 
will automatically become secre
tary of Council and a voting mem
ber.
Council will be required to hold 
meetings every two weeks in
stead of every week. The quorum 
is changed from three-fourths to 
two-thirds.
In order to avert confusion, it 
is stipulated that Council shall not 
have jurisdiction over activities 
and organizations which in no way 
involve any student or students 
of any local chapter affiliated with 
a nationally constituted profes
sional, activities, or scholastic or
ganization.
CIT-Chai
By Jack Johnson
One of the most encouraging recent trends is 
the apparent increased awareness of campus af
fairs on the part of the students. Perhaps there 
are no more people actually participating in affaires-de-:campus, but there seem to be a great
er number of people who are at least interest
ed among those who are participating.
To this observer, this departure from apathy 
appears to go deeper than mere response to pep 
rallies and other such outward signs of enthus
iasm. There is evidence which would lead one to 
believe that the type of interest shown goes to 
the point of real concern for such vital questions 
as where Carnegie is going in education, what 
philosophy is being reflected by Student Coun
cil, etc.
Since we feel that this upswing in interest 
is a good sign, there is no particular need to 
analyze the causes for such a change. One con
tributing factor, however, is probably the grad
ual return of youth to the student body. There 
are undoubtedly other reasons, many of them 
also important, but this one is easiest to identify.
One phase of this interest trend which tends 
to backfire is the impetuous handling of student 
problems from time to time. It seems that stu
dent groups often automatically assume that the 
administration is not only not doing anything to 
reach an amiable solution, but is actually un
aware of the problems existence.
As a result, a two-fisted insurgence is at
tempted which usually does little more than alien
ate all parties concerned. Unquestionably, cases 
do exist where this type of approach is called 
for, but they are very infrequent in occurrence.
Dr. Dohertys comment on Carnegie Day con
cerning his willingness to respond to orderly sug
gestions is no more than typical of any reason
able administrations policy. This all suggests the 
incalculable value of a simple, orderly approach 
to any situation. Call it the scientific approach, 
or the professional approach, or what you will, 
but it consists, in essence, of identifying the 
problem and gathering the pertinent facts. Fail
ure to carry out the latter step generally causes 
recourse to futile griping rather than construc
tive suggestion.
Two glowing examples which demonstrate 
very well what can be accomplished by an order
ly attack are the very recent Student Council 
decisions on NSA and the key system, and the 
Student Conference committees handling of the 
athletic situation. In the first case, Council ac
complished in a comparatively short time what 
could not have been done by weeks of useless 
bickering if the pertinent facts had not been 
uncovered. In theathletic case, one well organiz
ed meeting with Dr. Doherty accomplished what 
months of top-blowing had failed to do. Grant
ed these steps are not sweeping in scope, they 
are at least in the right direction.
All this is to say that we appreciate and en
courage any maneuver to better an inequitable 
situation, but we stress the importance of taking 
a little time to think the problem through.
We expected this..*
YOUR TELEPHONE must take hard knocks as they 
comeand go on working.
To make sure it can, we test samples of each days pro
duction and put telephones through the equivalent of years 
of service in a few hours or days. For example: we drop 
handsets into their cradles 22,000 timesequal to 4 years 
normal use. And not just once, but from 16 different posi
tions, we drop sample telephones from desk-top height 
onto a hardwood surface. We even check their feet to be 
certain they wont scratch your table.
Here at Western Electric, weve been making Bell tele
phones sinte 1882. But telephones themselves are only 
about 6% of the equipment used in your service. The other 
94% includes wire, cable, switchboards, trucks, poles, tools, 
office equipment. With the exception of buildings, we 
make or supply almost everything Bell telephone people 
useand test it with utmost care.
Guarding the quality of things used in your Bell tele
phone service is one way that Western Electric helps to 
make it the worlds best.
Western Etectric
A UNIT OF THE BELLSYSTEM SINCE 1882

---------------------------------------------------

UNDERWOOD
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Wee Scotch Lass Aids KiltiesSororities 
Are Initiating 
Their Pledges
With initiation ceremonies be
ing held every week, most of the 
seven sororities will have con
cluded their pledge periods by the 
Christmas recess.
First group to initiate its pledges 
was Kappa Alpha Theta who re
ceived thirteen new members on 
November 20. Delta Delta Delta 
followed with two ceremonies on 
December 2 and 3, while the sev
enteen Chi Omega pledges became 
members on December 4.
Initiation of the pledges of Sig
ma Kappa took place on Decem
ber 3. Alpha Epsilon Phi on De
cember 11, and Delta Gamma on 
December 15 will complete preChristmas ceremonies. Kappa 
Kappa Gamma will be the final 
sorority to conclude pledging with 
its initiation on January 8.
SnS Announces 
Molecule Man 
Tryout Dates
Scotch and Sodas 1949 produc
tion, The Molecule Man, will 
get under way with tryouts for 
the dancing and singing choruses 
and dramatic parts on January 8 
in Fine Arts.
Tentative plans for a technical 
meeting have been scheduled for 
4:30 p. m. December 16. At this 
time open competition will be held 
for scene and costume designing.
James McGiffin, president of the 
executive board of Scotch and 
Soda, hopes to have the cast com
pletely selected by the beginning 
of next semester, at which time 
actual rehearsals will get under 
way.
Pioom notices for meetings will 
be posted on school bulletin 
boards at a later date.
The complete personal typewriter . . . with JA c/% inbuilt tabulator and many other features^ that make the Champion a truly modernII portable. Finished in soft French-gray and
Ph>* f*d. bdw chromium. Smart carrying case included.Tag 15.07
TERMS ARRANGED
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
644 LIBERTY AVENUE 
AT. 8320
In a recent national test, 
hundreds of men and women 
smoked Camels, and only 
Camels, for thirty consecutive 
daysan average of 1 to 2 packs 
a day. Noted throat specialists 
examined the throats of these 
smokers every week (a total of 
2470 examinations) and reported
SMOKE Camels for 30 days ... its 
1 revealing  and its fun to learn 
for yourself.
Let YOUR OWN THROAT tell 
you the wonderful story of Camels 
cool, cool mildness. Let YOUR 
OWN TASTE tell you about the 
rich, full flavor of Camels choice 
tobaccosso carefully aged and 
expertly blended.
NO THROAT IRRITATION
due to smoking CAMELS!
According to a Nationwide surveys
MORE DOCTORS 
SMOKE CAMELS THAN ANY 
OTHER CIGARETTE
Doctors smoke for pleasure, too! And when 
three leading independent research organiza
tions asked 113,597 doctors what cigarette they 
smoked, the brand named most was Camel!

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1948Plaid Opens Court Season Tonight
Paul Offermanns'Sportscope
Answer to Critics 
Of Tartan Intramural 
Sports Coverage
After sitting back and taking complaint after complaint 
about intramural coverage on these pages, we decided to unleash a few of our own pet peeves. First off, however, we 
must admit to the charge that we have been placing the em 
phasis on intercollegiate sports, meaning football and basket ball so far this year. As far as we are concerned, intramurals 
will always take a back seat to varsity football and basketball.
But as for the oft-hurled complaint that we are not 
completely covering: the major intramural games, we would 
like to offer this fact: At every touch football game this 
year there was at least one sports reporter from the Tartan 
assigned to cover the contest. When it comes time to write 
up the article on an intramural sport at the end of the week, 
we select the most important games and then present the 
straight FACTS of the game. When it comes to writing iutramurals, facts are the news. Unlike varsity athletic con
tests, it is virtually impossible to cover behind-the-game 
scenes and color items in these games.
Realizing that we could probably do something more in 
maintaining student interest in the intramural program, we 
decided to run an article and summary on the leading individual 
scorers of every team entered in touch football this year. We 
have made several requests to both the Intramural Board and the Managers club for the necessary information, finally re
ceiving a handful of scattered lists from seven of the eighteen 
organizations represented.
Then we tried to get hold of the All-Points standing for 
publication in this issue. Everybody contacted in the search 
for such records seemed reluctant to divulge the informa
tion. Finally, we were forced to abandon all hope of re
leasing this standing when it became increasingly evident 
that we could no longer depend upon the Intramural Board 
for an official release to meet our deadline.
It appears that what the Intramural Board needs is a 
publicity man!
Reporters Notebook
Why not?Varsity football players and others interested 
in the Carnegie football picture have been trying to talk up the renewal of the Pitt football series. We would like to see the game back on the Tartans schedule too. It usually takes 
at least two years to get a big-name team back on your sched
ule, but Carnegies gridders could be ripe for such a game 
in 1950. It seems like a natural for the final game of the 
season for both teams.Of all thingsIt seems that Lawrence Tech is stealing 
some of the magic tricks of sports promotion from Bill Yeeck 
of the Cleveland Indians. Veeck has been known to put on 
everything from circuses to pyrotechnic displays to sell his 
baseball team. Just last Friday night, when Carnegie opened 
its court season in the Detroit school, a concert starring Louis Armstrong and his band, Ethel Waters, and other stage acts 
followed the game.They have enlarged the Michigan State Fairgrounds Co
liseum so that they can seat 10,000 for their combined basket
ball games and stage shows. In another pre-season show a 
couple of weeks ago, they presented Horace Heidt and his 
talent show.All that and Norm Hankins too!
like cream hair tonics?
(
contains 
Vi r atol*m
mu
gives your hair 
|>that "just-combed"^ 
lookall day long?
NEW FORMULA WITH VIRATOL*
works wonders in the 
looks of your hair.
It looks natural...it 
feels natural...and 
it stays in place I 
Try a bottle.
*Thts sptcial compound gives lustri j ; j https htsir in pita without stiff mu.
Lawrence Tech 
Ekes Out Win 
Over Tartans
Theodore & Co. Check 
High Scoring Antics 
Of Detroit Quintet
DETROIT, Dec. 4  Carnegie 
Techs basketball team gave 9,000 
fans some anxious moments here 
tonight as they battled a heavilyfavored Lawrence Tech quintet 
on even terms for most of the 
game before bowing 55-44.
The largest crowd ever to as
semble for a basketball game here 
knew after the Plaid came storm
ing back to a 6-6 deadlock early 
in the game that the Tartans 
hadnt come along just for the 
ride.
The Blue Devils had everybody 
back from last years team  a 
team that compiled a record of 22 
victories in 28 starts against some 
of the nations best.
Norm Hankins, the nations 
number one scorer last year with 
630 points in 28 games, or an aver
age of 22.5 per game, was held to 
12 points by Mike Theodore. In 
the meantime, Theodore was walk
ing off with high-scoring honors 
for the night by hitting the hoops 
for 14.
Besides Theodores offensive and 
defensive contributions, it was 
some good scoring support from 
senior Jack Riehl and freshman 
Tom Beck that kept the Tartans 
in the game.
Forward Bob McCullugh and 
center Dave Ellies, being counted 
upon for some heavy scoring this 
year, were held to a tofal of four 
points while Marty Chetlin failed 
to score from the field, 
throw circle.
The Blue Devils fast break, 
which rolled up such tremendous 
scores last year, was not utilized 
at all. Either it was a newly 
waxed floor that prevented the 
Detroiters from playing their fire
brand ball, or Carnegie succeeded 
in slowing down the game.
Carnegie Tech | Lawrence TechFGFTP FGFTPTheodore f6214! Hankins f5212McCullugh f 113| Talbert f339Matsey f204| Knurek f000Alford f000| Polance f000Clinton f000| Stepler c5212Ellies c01l|Ulles c113Hamman c102| Maconchie g135Chetlin g033| Campbell g306Riehl g419| Cacicedo g124Beck g408 McHale g1021 Chojnwsi g 102
TOTALS 18 8 441 TOTALS 21 13 55Halftime scoreLawrence Tech 24; Carnegie Tech 18.RODGER'SDAIRY
Try Our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% Pure Beef 
U. S. Government Inspected 

LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made With 
PURE WHOLE MILK 
RODGER'S
DAIRY STORES
3905 FORBES STREET Near Bouquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
Veteran Squad Ready To Meet 
Steubenville In Home Opener
Coach Bill Donohoe has these five veteran court men ready for 
action in the local basketball innaugural tonight against Steuben
ville. Left to right they are Dave Ellies, Jack Riehl, Mike Theodore, 
Bob McCullugh, and Marty Chetlin. * * *
^ Coach Bill Donohoe will line up 
five veterans for the opening bas
ketball whistle in Skibo gym to
night at 8:30 against Steubenville 
college.
At forwards will be captain 
Mike Theodore and Bob McCul
lugh, both being counted upon for 
high scoring duties this year. Dave 
Ellies will handle the center spot 
and should give Theodore plenty 
of support under the boards as 
well as supplying a good scoring 
punch. Veterans Jack Riehl and 
Marty Chetlin, specializing in 
speed defensive play and set shots 
will operate at guards.
Because of the experience of 
this starting team, the Plaid will 
be favorites to take the Ohio 
school in stride. Not much is 
known about Steubenville except 
that they are coached by Mele 
Zorri, and won only four of 25 
games last year.
Backing up the first string will 
be Hugh Alford and Connie Hammann, forwards, Joe Matsey, cen
ter, and Tom Beck and Cliff Dunn, 
guards.
On Saturday night in the gym, 
the Skibos will have their hands 
full when Frankie Gustine brings 
his Waynesburg Yellowjackets to 
town. Gustine will have his scor
ing ace Chuck Karmarkovich 
primed to cut loose on another 
race for district scoring honors.
It should be an interesting game 
to watch with Mike Theodore 
guarding Karmarkovich. Theodore 
is just as brilliant a defensive 
player as he is on the scoring side 
of the ledger.
After the Tartans fine perform
ance up in Detroit last Friday 
night, when they held down a 
Lawrence Tech team that often 
amassed 100 or more points last 
year and was very seldom held 
under 60.
IM Wrestling 
To Start Soon
Team And Individual 
Titles Are At Stake
Intramural wrestling will get 
under way next Monday with 40 
men seeking championship in one 
of the eight weight divisions.
With varsity wrestling out of 
the picture this year, the veter 
ans from last years squad plus 
many newcomers began grooming 
themselves for intramural compe
tition early in November. Besides 
the individual titles at stake, a 
team championship carrying with 
it 100 points towards the AllPoints trophy hangs in the bal
ance.
Each entrant will earn 5 points 
toward the trophy by merely 
completing his scheduled matches 
and will be awarded an additional 
2 for each individual win. A di
vision champion will receive 20 
points, while runner-up and third 
spots will garner 15 and 10 points 
respectively. The team cham
pionship is awarded on the basis 
of the total points scored by the 
members of the competing teams.
First time under 
any tree. 3
PORTABLE!
at the
Student 
Book Exchange
3811 FIFTH AVE.
Billiards
Plans are currently being 
formulated in the Carnegie 
Tech intramural office to en
ter into the competition in the 
national billiards tournament 
sponsored by the Association of 
College Unions and Billiard 
Congress of America in the 
Spring of 1949.
With titles at stake in three 
divisions, pocket, straight-rail, 
and three-cushion billiards, the 
intramural representatives are 
searching for eight contestants, 
three of whom will be alter
nates, to compose the Plaid 
squad. Sectional tournaments 
will be conducted by telephone 
with high scorers from each 
section meeting for national 
honors at Columbia University next April.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTANTNT Defeats Pitt For City Title
T7- 1 T - -----Katselas Leads CIT IM i 
Gridders to 19-13 Win
In traisi urn I 
Summary
Bowling Resuits
ATO 695Beta Sig 685737-
Betas 751Kappa Sig 634628
Emanon 818PiKA 747860-
Phi Kappa 787Citcom 894718Theta Xi 779Betas 766707
TNT Ace Passes For Two Scores, 
Runs Third In First Win Over Pitt
With Tasso Katselas leading the way, TNT put on a brilliant 
display of football as they rolled to a 19-13 victory over the Pitt 
Locals at Pitt Stadium last Wednesday afternoon. The win was the 
first for a CIT team in the three jear old series between the intramural champions of the 
schools.
Passing his team to two touch 
downs, the amazing Katselas 
carried over a third himself when 
the Panther defense had finally 
solved his aerial game. Only for 
one brief moment were the visit
ing Tartans in any danger.
Katselas had tossed to Johe for 
the first score of the contest, Carr 
gathered in the ensuing kickoff 
and raced 50 yards down the mid
dle with the tying score. A suc
cessful conversion gave the home 
team a 7-6 advantage.
TNT struck back with lightning-like suddenness, a 30 yard 
Katselas-to-Chetlin pass climax
ing the long drive over the muddy 
field. With the lead once again in 
their possession, TNT tightened 
their defense and played the op
position to a standstill for the re 
mainder of the first half.
After the intermission, the Car
negie representatives padded their 
lead as Katselas once again pass
ed his team downfield. Stymied 
on the 7 yard line, the TNT backfield ace raced through the line 
for what proved to be the winning 
tally.
In the fina1 stanza, the Local un
leashed a series of passes to score 
again with Valicenti pitching to 
Laboon in the end zone for the 
touchdown. After taking the kickoff, TNT and Katselas started to 
move once more, driving to the 4 
yard line before their attack wilt
ed. With time running out, the 
Pitt team fought to the TNT 30 
yard line where the game ended.
Volleyball Results
Kiltie leaguePiKA 21, 21ASCE 17, 11; Delts 22, 21Phi Kappa 15, 17; ASCE 21, 10, 21ATO 11, 21, 14; TX 21, 21 Delts 16, 13; ASCE 21, 6, 21Citcom 9, 21, 7; T X 21, 21Phi Kappa 7, 8.Plaid leagueStanley Steamers 21, 21 FPHA 10, 8; SAE 21, 21 Beta Sig 1, 9; Stanley Steamers 21, 21TauDelts 5, 9; Emanon 21, 21SAE 16, 9; Betas 21, 21FPHA 9, 5; Tau Delts 21, 21Beta Sig 15, 18; Stanley Steamers 21, 12, 21Betas No. 1, 15, 21, 16; Emanon 21, 21Tau Delts 8, 17; Beta Sig 21, 21FPHA 6, 19, SAE 22, 21Tau Delts 20, 13.
Tartan leagueBetas No. 2 16, 21, 21 Dorm 21, 18, 7; TNT 21, 21Kappa Sig 15, 16; Scobells 21, 18, 21Sigma Nu 16, 21, 7; DU 21, 21TS 10, 7; Kappa Sig 21, 21Betas No. 2 12, 6; Sigma Nu 21, 19, 21Dorm 17, 21, 7; TNT 21, 21TS 7, 8; Scobells 21, 21 DU 13, 17; Sigma Nu 21, 21Betas No. 2 8, 17; Kappa Sig 21, 19, 21TS 10, 21, 2; DU 21, 21Dorm 0, 7; TNT 21, 21 Scobells 14, 13.
Table Tennis Results
Scots League Skibo League
PiKA 3BSR 2, Emanon 5SN 0TX 4Phi Kap 0
ATO 3St. St. 1 uu 6 1
TDP 3BSR 1 Emanon 4DTD 1ATO 3Citcom 0 SAE 3DU 0TX 4St. St. 1 I
Classified 
Ads
Keys Plan
[Continued from page i] 
points and women 12.
Although only specified activi 
ties can be used for application on 
the basis of longevity of service 
participants in recognized activi
ties on campus will receive points 
However, the mens point system 
has been revised so that men will 
no longer receive points for ath
letics. No less than one year on 
an activity is acceptable for a key
CK
Good Meals Anytime
Try Us Soon 
Morn, Night, or Noon
The Clock
3814 Forbes St.
CHRISTMAS gift suggestionsMagazine subscriptions at special rates. See ad page 6. Campus Subscription Agency, Box 123, Carnegie Tech.
Rifle Club 
Is Sponsoring 
Four Teams
Carnegie Techs Rifle and Pis
tol club is again this year present
ing the opportunity for interested 
students to compete in these range 
sports. The club is sponsoring 
four teams and is arranging for 
them to fire against other teams 
in the district.
These teams are the Mens Rifle 
team, Womens Rifle team, ROTC 
Rifle team, and the Pistol team. 
Activities of these teams are co
ordinated by an executive com 
mittee composed of the president 
and secretary of the club and the 
captains of the four teams.
Members of the committee are 
President John Kolbe, Secretary 
Carol Kirch, Captain Schmid of 
the ROTC team, Captain Smith of 
the mens team, Captain Mont
gomery of the womens team, and 
a yet to be elected captain of the 
pistol team.
Individual members of the club 
have been practicing since Octo
ber 1, and interclub matches have 
been fired weekly since the mid 
die of November.
CIT, Pitt, Duquesne and possi
bly W&J have formed an inter
school league which is scheduled 
to get under way February 17. 
Carnegies first match will be fired 
against Pitt on the Margaret Mor
rison range February 24.
Among the first ten of the var
sity squad will probably be Bachoffer Blotsky, Colbert, Kolbe, 
Montstream, Osterman, Schmidt and Smith.
ROTC and Womens teams are 
practicing diligently and will 
probably fire several matches.
Star Halfback Nick Simsic 
Awarded Joe Pash Trophy
Versatile Nick Simcic, Carne 
gies great running and passing 
halfback, was awarded the Joe 
Pash Memorial Trophy at the 
C-Club dance last Saturday night 
in Thistle Hall.
The trophy, presented annually 
to the Tartans most valuable grid
iron player by Phi Kappa frater
nity, was awarded to a backfield 
man for the first time in its threeyear existence.
The players and coaches of the 
football team voted the trophy to 
Simcic on the basis of his great 
offensive and defensive play 
throughout the season. Despite 
numerous injuries during the sea
son, the 3.3 factor sophomore was 
able to come back each Saturday 
and provide the main offensive 
threat in the Plaids attack.
Having never played football on 
high school or college teams be
fore this season, Simcic stepped 
into the signal-calling spot at tail
back this year and directed the 
Tartans to their first football win 
in six years.
Nick Simic (left) receives the 
Joe Pash Trophy from Bernard 
Sledzik.
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288
For That Quick Bite, the
SPORT (ENTER GRILL
3813 Fifth Avenue
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
Impromptu Parties 
So Easy with Coke
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
LOOK how popular Sheedy is since he switched to Wildroot 
Cream-Oil. Sodont monkey with other hair tonicsget 
Wildroot Cream-Oil right away. A little bit grooms your hair 
neatly and naturally without that greasy, plastered-down look. 
Relieves annoying dryness. Removes loose dandruff. Helps 
you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Non-alcoholic Wildroot CreamOil contains Lanolin. Get a bottle or tube today at any drug 
or toilet goods counter. And have your barber give your 
coconut professional applications. Considering what Wildroot 
Cream-Oil does for your appearance, the 
cost is peanuts!
j|c of327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
\Wildroot Company. Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Ask for it either way ... both 
trade-marks mean the same thing. 
jfOTTlED UNDER AUTHORITY QF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA>CO{<A BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
 1948,Th* Coca-Cola Company

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1948
Personable Mrs Hagins Honoraries 
Keeps Union Humming
Mrs. Rosalie Hagins, the Car
negie Unions new hostess, has 
certainly made a hit with the Tar
tans. Her pleasant manner and 
friendly conversation have made 
all those who know her glad that 
she is to preside over the Unions 
activities.
During her undergraduate days, 
at Wells on Lake Cayuga, she 
played a mean left-end on the 
field hockey team and also found 
time to hold down the business 
managers spot on the year-book; 
this job trained her for the edi
torship which followed.
After graduation, Mrs. Hagins 
taught Latin, science, geometry, 
and algebra at Johnstown high 
school; she also worked toward 
her Masters degree at Pitt and 
Penn State. With a collegiate 
background such as this, it is no 
wonder that Mrs. Hagins enjoys 
dancing, swimming, golfing (at 
which she is terrible, she says), 
ice-skating, and of course, the 
inevitable bridge.
Mrs. Hagins three sons were 
all in college at the same time 
Bob at Annapolis, Joe at Pitt, and 
John at Duke. They are all mar
ried, and each has one child. Mrs. 
Hagins confidently expects to see 
her grandchildren graduate with 
honors.
With the advent of the late war, 
Mrs. Hagins started activities on 
her own and went into personnel 
work at Fairchild Aircraft Cor
poration in Hagerstown, Mary
land. Later she journeyed to San 
Francisco where she became as
sistant manager in the adjustment 
department of I. Magnin & Com
pany, a swanky West coast de
partment store. In this capacity, 
she had contacts with many ac
tressesask her about some of 
these temperamental creatures.
This semester, CIT was fortun
ate enough to get Mrs. Hagins to 
come her. When questioned 
about Carnegie, she was enthuiastic in her comments. I like it, 
she said. The boys and girls are 
wonderful to me.
In answer, Mrs. Hagins, it can 
only be said that while Annapolis, 
Pitt, and Duke have your sons, 
Carnegie has you and Carnegie 
likes you.
Special
TIME
College
Rates
$5.40 under ih*20<-o-<opy niwistand price 
SI .30 under th regular 1-year 
svbscription prie*
when you subscribe 
through us at the Spe-^_ _ 
cial College Rate of only'5*00
LIFE
S5.A5 under the 20<-a-copy ntwt* tond prit 
$1.25 undar the regular l.yter 
lubwiptiM prie
when you subscribe f 
through us at the Sp*-*j mm 
cial College Rate of only '*,#5
Make your 
dollars stretch 
fwrtkorby taking advantage now of 
tkeo money>avlng, tpecial rota* . . .
inter your order today, through'
Campus 
Subscription Agency 
123, Carnegie Tech
Hospitality is her business.
Initiate Forty
Pi Tau Sigma
Twenty-three under graduate 
students of the department of me
chanical engineering were pledged 
last week by Pi Tau Sigma, the 
mechanical engineering honorary. 
Five of those chosen were seniors. 
Initiation rites with an initiation 
banquet were given last Thursday 
at the Church of the Redeemer.
In addition to honoring the stu
dent members, Pi Tau Sigma con
ferred an honorary membership on 
Walter J. Blenko, chairman of the 
executive committee of the Board 
of Trustees. Mr. Blenko is a for
mer member of the CIT mechani
cal engineering department.
Undergraduates called were: 
Leslie Githens, Robert Witney, 
Howard Sine, Arthur Marcus, 
Albert Reschke, Robert Albright, 
Frank Becker, Walter Blenko, Jr., 
John Dager, Charles Dreyer, Rob
ert Haberstroh, Paul Hoerath, 
Harry Hulick, Robert Losee, Hack
Haversberg, Wallace McKee, John 
Price, Herman Reismeyer, Karl 
Schendel, John Schuster, Robert 
Sinclair, John Stewart and Frank 
Witt.
Eta Kappa Nu
Sigma chapter of Eta Kappa Nu 
held its initiation banquet at 7:00 
p. m., December 3, at the Church 
of the Redeemer. Mr. Tomlinson
Fort spoke on Electric Power in 
Our National Economy.
Members of the pledge class are: 
seniors: William Dean, Herbert 
Benton, Irving Zocher, John Munan, William Aiello; juniors: Zelko 
Kruzic, Milo lye, David Kobernuss, Robert Bung, James Horsch, 
John Biewener; night school: Wil
bert Sullivan, Chester Biscup, El
mer Barthel, Russell McWhinney, 
Charles Rqss, David Jones.
Christmas is coming ...
1949Kiltie Calendar
The Ideal Gift
Paper Bound...........1.00
Leatherette Bound . . 1.50 
ON SALE AT SKIBO AT NOON
CAMPUS CfPggs... tv
ORPHEAN  Like Orpheut, sweated singer 
of mythology.
JONGLEURS - Mediaeval Minstrel.
BARCAROLE  Serenade with romantic 
intentions.
NYE  Old hunting term for a cluster of 
beauteous birds like Pheasants. ,
ANTEDILUVIAN  Before the Flood; ancient.
EXPOSTULATE  To object with emphasis.
ULTRAMUNDANE - Out of this world, i.e., 
to sing like Bing.
CIGARETTE HANGOVER-That stale 
smoked*out taste; that tight dry feeling 
in your throat due to smoking.
CADENZAA gay vocal outburst.
PHILHARMONIC - Denoting o love of 
pleasant harmonies.
f-fitatfetflXf M>T& in Smofabg
All over America, millions of smokers are discovering  
theres no cigarette hangover when you smoke 
PHILIP morris ... because philip morris is less irritating 
than any other leading brand. Thats why eminent nose and 
throat specialist? actually suggest* MennM sAddnW in cases 
of irritation due to smoking. You'll be glad tomorrow, you 
smoked MennM sAddnW today!
CALL
FOR/
* PROOF t 
Letters fra 
Doctors ea

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTANThe Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ............................................................................... Lou Adams
Associate Editors ... Raymond Schwalm, Charlene J. Tohey
Circulation Manager.................................................George Dawes
Staff
ReportersBob Ellstrom, George Bogovich, Cecille Zellner, Jim Flaherty.
ColumnistsFrank Mihelich, C. G. Anderson.
> LEARN TO SNORE
Learn to snore in the daytime. Amaze 
your friends. How? Simple! Just care
fully avoid NoDoz Awakeners. When 
people take a NoDoz Awakener tablet they 
wake up fast, feel alert. Harmless as 
coffee. 25c at drug stores. >.
Special Lunches for 
Students and Businessmen
11:00 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
also
AMERICAN DISHES SERVED
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
FOUNTAIN 
PENSV
PARKER . . . SHEAFFER 
WATERMAN . . . 
ESTERBROOK 
NORMA FOUR-COLOR 
PENCILS
Singer Pen 
and Gift Shop
JENKINS ARCADE
PQP Announces 
Christmas Party
The Annual Christmas party of 
Phi Gamma Pi will be held on 
Saturday, December 11 at Car
negie Union, Miss Mary Episcopo, 
social chairman, announced at the 
organizations November meeting. 
Festivities will take place be
tween 2:00 and 4:00 oclock that 
afternoon.
At the same meeting, Miss Ethel 
Witzel, president, also announced 
the following committee chair
men: Marjorie Bomer, pledges; 
Ann Shack Hall, pins; Mary Alice 
Peterson, historian; and Char
lene J. Tohey, publicity.
FRAZER PROCESS
SPECIALIZED HAIR REMOVING BY 
LICENSED ELECTROLOGIST
5737 Darlington Road 
JAckson 5775
University Recreation 
BOWLING
Under New Management
AFTERNOON BOWLING
407-409 Craig Street
SChenley 9307
'sSSLL
iThe Buckingham
^w'doub,esole
  as a first cflo,ce
r 
 
* SMART BUY AT
W.U.'.POUGLAS
205 FIFTH AVE.
6223 FRANKSTOWN AVE. (E. LIBERTY) 
1202 MARKET ST., WHEELING
NewsAndViews
Perhaps its not in order to be
gin our column this week with an 
apology, but since we feel one is 
in order, here goes: in the last 
edition of the Plaid, one of our 
colleagues went off the deep end 
by stating that the boxes for
merly used for distributing the 
Plaid had been filtched by some 
person or persons primarily with 
the purpose of depriving evening 
school of a means for distributing 
the paper.
This is an erroneous statement, 
for such was not the case. The 
boxes disappeared during the 
Homecoming Weekend. The ad
ministration and Tartan staff were 
much concerned about their dis
appearance and have spent a great 
deal of time in trying to locate 
them and have been partially suc
cessful. Although the boxes were 
missing, it was due to no partic
ular group of persons and since 
some of the boxes have been re
turned, we want evening students 
to know their appearance is due 
to the administration and depart
ment staffs.
Campus Facts  It takes only 
four (4) minutes and thirty (30) 
seconds to walk from the main 
entrance of the administration 
building, by the way of the cut, to 
the street car stop at Morewood 
and Forbes streets.
There are nine (9) exits in the 
Industries Building including the 
main Administration building en
trance. Not important perhaps, 
but nevertheless something to re 
member.
Our hurrahs this week are for 
the evening students who worked 
so hard to make the Evening Stu
dent Council dance of November 
27 so successful.
Now that Christmas is nearly 
upon us, most evening students 
are thinking of Santa and not too 
few of them are begging him for 
passing grades in their respective 
subjects, especially dynamics.
Night Council Plans 
Christmas Assembly
Program Will Probably Include 
Main Speaker And Group Singing
Again this year the Evening Student council is planning to hold 
a Christmas assembly. It will closely follow the program established 
last year with a main speaker, group singing, and introductions of
?the members of student council.
Plans have not been completFOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
Quick Efficient Service at the
TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes
*Uinard Studio 
Fine Portraitures
Application prints and 
photostats in a hurry
MUseum 0314
3919 Forbes Street
(Corner Atwood) Room 415
Lets go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasfy Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street Squirrel Hill
3714 Forbes Street. Oakland 
Mats Plant!
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
Eta Kappa Nu 
Initiates Six
Mr. Tomlinson Speaks 
At Initiation Banquet
Six evening students were in
itiated into active membership of 
Eta Kappa Nu, national honor
ary electrical society, last Fri
day evening.
Students elected to membership 
are: Elmer Barthel, Chester Biscup, David Jones, Russell McWhinney, Charles Ross and Wil
bur Sullivan.
At a banquet following the in
itiation, Mr. Tomlinson spoke on 
Electric Power in Our National 
Economy.
Membership of Eta Kappa Nu is 
composed of students in the top 
one-third of the junior and senior 
classes of the electrical engineer 
ing department. There are now 
twenty day and evening students 
in the fraternity.
ed, but it is hoped that classes 
will be excused early in order 
that those who have a ride home 
or must catch a bus will be able to 
hold to their regular schedules. 
Ray Schwalm, the social chair
man, has announced that he will 
contact the Mens Glee Club to 
see if they will be able to sing 
several selections and also to lead 
the group singing.
It is expected that details will 
be worked out by next week so 
watch the Plaid and the bulletin 
boards for further information.
EXPERT REPAIRS
BADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AYE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
9 YEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products and 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
Comer Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
'DART"PAR""ARDEN'
WHICH ARROW WHITE SHIRT
DO YOU PREFER?
'FENWAY" "DOUBLER"  "SUSSEX"
Almost everyone has two or three favorite Arrow white shirt 
models in crisp Gordon oxford or snowy broadcloth.
These and other models are now available at your favorite 
Arrow store. See them today!
Broadcloth shirts from $3.65. Oxfords at $3.95.
omddAG
SHIRTS and TIES
* UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
,\AEW.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE CARNEGIE TABTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1948
"Mys YOURS mos MILDER keiMCsmms
1 il ; 1!
"My smoke is CHESTERFIELD 
in my new picture, WHEN 
MY BABY SMILES AT ML 
I always smoke CHESTERFIELDS. 
Theyre MILDER...
Its MY cigarette." *
STARRING IN
WHEN MY BABY SMILES AT ME
A 20th CENTURY-FOX TECHNICOLOR PRODUCTION
MORE COLLEGE STUDENTS SMOKE CHESTERFIELDS than any other Cigarette . . . BY LATEST NATIONAL SURVEY
The Bulletin Board
Guild ScholarshipBasketball Dances
Mens Dorm council will hold 
the first of a series of open dances 
in Thistle hall after the basket
ball game, December 11. Dorm 
men may call Kirk Carney for 
dates.
These open dances are schedul
ed by Mens Dorm council to be 
held throughout the season.
Tau Beta Pi
Tau Beta Pi will hold its initia
tion banquet December 15, at 
Webster hall. Dr. Webster N. 
Jones will be present, and the vice 
president of Westinghouse Elec
tric corporation will be the guest 
speaker.
Letters of application for the 
Womens Guild scholarship must 
be in the Dean of Womens office 
no later than January 15.
This scholarship, totaling $50, is 
to be awarded to a woman stu
dent on the basis of need and may 
be used at the recipients dis
cretion.
Any woman student on campus 
is eligible to apply for the schol
arship.
SAM Seminar
SAM will sponsor a lecture by 
Mr. C. V. Taylor on What the 
College Student Wants to Know 
about Federal Employment today 
at 12:30 p. m. in IH-104. Mr. Tay
lor will discuss the summer train
ing programs for federal employ
ment.
At the SAM meeting on Wed
nesday, December 15 at 12:30 p. 
m. in IH-104, Mr. Clifford L. Pot
ter, vice-president of the Mellon 
National bank, will discuss The 
Relation Between the Banker and 
the Industrialist. All faculty 
members and interested students 
are cordially invited.
YMCA and YWCA
Carnegies YMCA and YWCA 
will hold their annual Christmas 
dinner on December 12, at 6:00 
p. m. in Carnegie Union. After the 
dinner, there will be carol singing 
and a Christmas entertainment 
presented by representatives of 
the YMCA and various church 
groups.
Reservations for the dinner, 
which will cost $1.25 per person,
should be turned in by December 
9 to Mr. Davis in the Union. Ev
eryone is welcome.
Discussion Group
CITs Intercollegiate Discussion 
group will hold its last meeting 
before Christmas vacation at 8 
p. m. on December 9, at the Car
negie Union. No program as yet 
scheduled, but all members are 
encouraged to attend.
Veteran Insurance
Accounts of policy holders be
longing to the CIT Veterans or
ganization of the Blue Cross Hos
pitalization program due January 
1 are payable now to George Lees 
before December 10.
Any veteran wishing to join 
the organization for hospital in
surance must join before the first 
of the year. George Lees can be
contacted through the department 
of architecture or by calling CO. 
5218.
SINCE SEPTEMBER(20, .1948! 
10,408 COLLEGE STUDENTS]
HAVE ^CHANGED/ TO
CHESTERFIELD
THERE'S A REASONr
Okeure
Copyright 1948, Ucun ft M>tu Tcwacco Co
