Y. W. C. A. DANCE 
SATURDAY, MARCH 7 
8:30 P. M. UNION!
SOPH HOP 
WILLIAM PENN BALL ROOM j 
FRIDAY, MARCH 6 TED WEEMS
VOL. XIX No. 22CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, MARCH 3, 1925
PLAID TOSSERS 
WIN TWO GAMES 
AND LOSE ONE
Change Industries Smoker Date
To March 28; Appoint Committees
Notre Dame Defeated For 
Initial Time in Any 
Sport By Skibos
W. & J. WINS AGAIN; 
W. VA. WES. FALLS
j This weeks edition of the weekly 
j change in the Industries smoker has 
set it for Saturday night, March 2S,
| where it will undoubtedly stay set. All 
j sub-committees have been appointed, 
and the work is proceeding smoothly. 
I with every indication that the smoker 
| will nobly uphold the traditional sucicess of its predecessors, i A few of the events scheduled at 
! this time are the election of the most 
, representative Carnegie Senior in Inj dustries; contest for the cup donated 
I by Alpha Tau honorary, to be award
Season Closes This Week at 
WestminsterGrove City 
Met Friday
The Carnegie tossers spent another 
busy week by playing three hard 
games, winning from Notre Dame on 
Monday, 36-31; from West Virginia 
Wesleyan on Saturdaj% 35-2S, and los
ing for the second time this year to 
Wash-Jeff, 35-32.
The victory over Notre Dame was 
a brilliant feature of ilie Tartan cap, 
r.s the Irish rank high in the middle 
west. They defeated Illinois, West
ern Conference leaders, and Chicago, 
the latter team when several of the 
Indiana regulars were at Stanford 
playing football. This is the first 
time that a Carnegie team lias defeat
ed Notre Dame in any sport. It was 
a brilliant game, the South Bendersac times displaying fast accurate 
passing and shooting, but the Tartans 
were the better cage artists for all of 
that.
The encounter with the Presidents 
on Friday was the thriller of the 
week. The men from Washington 
had the advantage of an elongated 
center who only had to reach-for the 
tip off and who kept the Presidents 
in the running throughout. The 
Wash-Jeff Jinx seems to continue. 
Carnegie has never defeated W. & J. 
in basket ball, although the two 
teams have been playing for several 
years.
The Wesleyan game was the easy 
one of the week for the Plaid. The 
Methodists did not score until fifteen 
minutes of play had passed by; the 
Tartans jumped ofT to a flying start 
and were never headed. This makes 
the score two to one in favor of Car
negie, in the basket hall contests with 
the Bob-Cats.
With these three games the Tar
tans closed their home seas6n. Two 
more out-of-town games remain yet 
on the scheduleGrove City on Fri
day of this week, and Westminster on 
Saturday. Victories in these two 
games will give the Tartans more 
than an even break for the season, 
iis they have now Avon seven and lost 
seven games.
PALMS DECORATIVE 
MOTIF FOR 25 BALL
Most of Central Building to 
be Used by Seniors For 
Annual Fete
ed to the department producing the 
best stunt (Alpha Tau, and peralips 
the faculty will be represented in this 
contest), movies, smokes and eats.
The following sub-committees have 
been appointed, and tickets will soon 
be put on sale:
Smokes and RefreshmentsHansen 
and Gooby.
StuntsAlpha TauWeideli and 
Shipp. Building ConstructionRow
ley. Machine ProductionKornman. 
Printing Department.
Ticket SalesCecil T. Hall.
PublicitySam Weil.
WOMENS JR. PROM 
DELICHTS DANCERS
LORD THOMSON Science Stag Contest to Elect WILL SPEAK AT Most Popular Seniors This Week
GEN. ASSEMBLY
Brigadier General's Back
ground is Life of Active 
Military Service
UNION TO BE NEW
GATHERING PLACE
Song Words to be Flashed 
on Screen and Sung 
Orchestra Music
Hines Bros. Orchestra Wins 
Praise; Favors Handed 
Out in Novel Way
PRICE MAY BE $3.50
Science-Industries 
Joint Assembly Today
Plan Spcial Entertainment 
For Combined Session
The Science and Industries As
sembly on March 3, will be a joint 
affair held in Room 218, Science. It 
will be run on a co-operative "basis, 
both schools working together -on 
the program. This change is due to 
the Freshman assemblys being held 
in Industries on that date. Joint as
semblies have never been tried be
fore, but circumstances indicate that 
this one will be successful.
An excellent musical program will 
be one of the features of the as
sembly. A committee onentertain
ment has been appointed. It is a 
joint committee, Jack Harris of 
Science' and A. S. Andrews of Indus
tries being the chairmen.
By combining, it is hoped the as
semblies will be made more interest
ing to a greater number of students. 
If the plan is satisfactory, it may be
come permanent, the assemblies al
ternating between schools.
Stunts will be provided by Esther 
jLeich, Betty McFadden, and Durbin 
Horner, a trio of versatile plebes who 
will help assure those who . attend 
that they have spent a profitable and 
entertaining hour.
DR. HElNROTH'S LECTURE
RECITALS START SAT.
Dr. Charles Heinrotli, organist and 
director of music at Carnegie Insti
tute, will inaugurate his usual series 
of Lenten lectures on Saturday night, 
February 28th, with a talk on Mu
sical Fallacies. These lectures on 
musical subjects will take the place 
of the regular Saturday night free 
organ recitals and will be given on 
six Saturdays during Lent through 
April 4tli. The lectures will be illus
trated by selections on piano and 
organ.
The schedule of subjects follows:
February 28..............Musical Fallacies
March 7...Mozart; Sunshine in Art
March 14...................Scotch Folksongs
March 21...............Liszt as a Composer
March 28 ...............................................
..........Beethovens Eighth Symphony
April 4 ..................................................
.......Wagners Greatest Masterpiece
These lectures will be given in Car
negie Music Hall Saturdays at 8:15 
o'clock p. m. They are free to the 
public.
In order to transform the Union in
to the Paradise Isle for the Senior 
Ball it has been found necessary to 
use over 100 palms, and ferns. This 
5s going to be quite a job for O. B. 
Newman, for it is he who has to get 
the equipment. It has been thought, 
by the committee, that this setting is 
the most popular among dancers, and 
it is the most attractive. Obie is 
going to set the stage for the biggest 
event that has ever been held on the 
Campus, and be. is going to utilize 
the entire third floor of the Adminis
tration Building, and the second floor 
lobby. He plans to make the place 
look like just what it aint, as he 
says, and he has the wishes of the 
Committee.
Bun Young has been chasing 
around hunting up orchestras for the 
affair, and at the meeting today he 
will spill the beans as to his findings. 
That means that the next issue of 
The Tartan will disclose tne name 
of the orchestra which is to play. 
Public sentiment will have very little 
influence in the selection, for the 
committee Is trying to cut expenses as 
much as possible in order to put the 
dance within easy reach of the sen
ior class, so it is probable that Paul 
Whiteman or Vincent Lopez will not 
be considered.
To justify the selection of the Un
ion, the Committee thinks it well 
that their reasons bo published. In 
order. to decorate adequately it is 
necessary to stay on the Campus, for 
a hotel willnot permit the type of 
decorating which is going to be used. 
This is the chief factor, and coupled 
with the fact that the Union has the 
best floor in the city and is quite 
large enough for the Senior Class, 
the Committee feels that it would 
(Continued on Page Four.)
MUSICAL CLUBS SCORE 
HIT AT NEW SCHENLEY
In their appearance at the new 
Schenley last week, the Musical Clubs 
staged one of their most successful 
performances so far this year. The 
clubs gave only two short perform
ances each evening for the first half 
of the week, but even this has been 
sufficient to firmly establish their rep
utation as clever and talented musi
cians. The spontaneous outburst of 
enthusiastic applause which followed 
I the presentation of every number 
| showed that their efforts to entertain 
| were not only highly appreciated, but 
also very much enjoyed.
The numbers by the Mens Glee 
Club and the Instrumental Club were 
perhaps the most outstanding features 
of the program, and Directors John
ston, Kovach and Stump are to be 
highly commended for the success of 
these selections. The music wras well 
chosen, and even the most critical pro
fessor could hardly deny that the num
bers were well played and well sung.
The individual performances, too, 
certainly had their share in putting 
the program across. Obie was there 
in all his glory, and it required lots 
of applause to,make him sing an eni core, but the audience became dogj gedly persistent, and Obie finally 
came back. And of course Aleshin 
j could not hope to satisfy the audi
ences craving for entertainment with 
only one skillfully played number on 
his most unique instrument, the Balalailea. Gumberts baritone solos and 
the songs by the quartet added fur
ther to the variety and excellence of 
the program. A1 Minettis jig, accom
panied by an instrumental number, 
was really clever and made a fitting 
j cLose to an unquestionably successful 
performance.
Manager Lunquist is now organizing 
I plans for the Cleveland trip, which the 
j clubs will make during the four days 
! beginning March 11. Just what towns 
(the clubs will visit, and just who will 
go on the trip, will be decided upon 
during this w'eek. As this is one of 
the most extensive tours the clubs 
make, every effort will _ be made to 
make the outcome a favorable one. 
The men should be highly encouraged 
by their Schenley appearance, for if 
their Cleveland trip proves a3 suc
cessful as this performance has. they 
will add another to their list of con
quests.
BRILLIANT SPECTACLE
The Women's Junior Promenade, 
held last Friday in the ballroom  of 
the Schenley Hotel, proved to be a 
delightfully successful event. There 
are many who say that it was in
comparable.
The ballroom presented a fasci
nating spectacle with the swaying 
couples dancing under the many vari
colored oriental lanterns that hung 
from the ceiling. The dance began 
at nine oclock to the captivating 
strains of the Hines Brothers Or
chestra, of Willows fame. At ten 
oclock Mildred Semons and her es
cort led the grand march. As a cli
max to the march a diminutivo boy 
and an equally small girl pulled two 
small wagons, loaded heavily with 
favors, across the floor. There re
membrances were in the form of at
tractive bill folds for the men and 
equally attractive purses for the wo
men. The favors were made of a 
fine quality of leather with the Car
negie Tech seal done in gold on them.
As the mysterious hour of mid
night drew nigh, tho gay crowd of 
young people adjourned to the dining 
room, where they partook of the de
licious supper served tlioro.
The Prom finished about two 
o'clock with a captivating waltz, end
ing with a beautiful violin duet. And 
so another remarkable Prom passed 
into history.
Civils to Study Pittsburgh 
Railways Co.s Routing Plan
During the present semester the 
Senior Civils will assist in studying 
traffic conditions in the City of Pitts
burgh, under the direction * of Mr. 
Burton Marsh, Engineer of the City 
Traffic Committee, and In conjunc
tion witli a course in I-Iigliway Engi
neering under Professor Charles B. 
Stanton. Spot accident maps have 
already boon prepared by this class 
showing the location of various types 
of accidents which occurred during 
tho year 1024, and these maps will 
be analyzed to determine why so 
many casualties occur at certain in
tersections.
Beginning this week the Civils will 
take various statistics from three to 
six p. m. on busy streets in the down
town section, to rf^ertain tho per
centage of jay-walkers, time lost and 
jams resulting from left hand turns, 
effect of parking on the number of 
automobiles traversing a given street, 
etc. It is brobable that the members 
of the Transportation class will as
sist in some of the minor details of 
this work.
The civil engineering department, 
under Major C. B. Stanton, has been 
studying the Pittsburgh Railways 
Company rerouting plan for the past 
w'eek. The Railways Company met 
with the whole-hearted opposition of 
the downtown business men, when 
the company announced the rerout
ing plan would go into effect. Major 
Stanton, who was prominent in rail
way transportation work in France, 
during the World War, lias his de
partment working on the feasibility 
of rerouting the downtown ear loops 
to the outskirts of the business secfContinued on Page Four.)
Brigadier General Lord Thomson, 
Secretary of State for Air in Ramsey 
McDonalds Labor Cabinet, has ac
cepted Dr. Bakers special invitation, 
and Carnegie will be honored by his 
presence at the-next general assemb
ly, to be held next Tuesday, March 
10, in the Union.
Lord Thomson is the descendent 
of a fine old English family of sol
diers. His background is one of ac
tive service, for ho has served in tl\e 
Boer War, tho Balkan Wars, the 
Great War, and the Palestine Cam
paign. At the close of the Great War 
he was tho British Military represen
tative in the Supreme War Council 
at Versailles. On retiring from the 
army in 191!) with "Hie rank of Briga
dier General,-lie entered the field of 
politics and became Secretary of 
State for Air in the first Labor Gov
ernment, which position he now 
holds.
A new setting has been arranged 
for this assembly, which is to be 
held at no otlior place than the Car
negie Union. Some novol entertainment. ideas will ho tried out, chief 
among which is the singing of songs 
en masse, after they have been flash
ed upon a screen. A song leador will 
be chosen this wook. The singing 
will probably ho accompanied by a 
campus orchestra, who will lend fur
ther spice to tho program by render
ing a fow selections of their own.
The mere handful of students pre
sent at tho last ansombly convinced 
the entortalnmonl. committee, in 
charge of Oblo Newman, that, somo 
radical changes must bo made,' and 
they havo planned these novel fea
tures with tho hope of reviving the 
waning intorost shown by the stu
dent body this yoar toward general 
assemblies. An oxcuso quito fre
quently given for absonco at general 
assemblies is that, the Music Hall Is 
too far away. Tills Is an undoslrablo 
feature in severe weather, but having 
the assemblies in tho Union Jwill 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
SHILLING SHORT STORY 
CONTEST OPEN TO ALI.
The short story contest which Is at 
present being conducted by tho Shill
ing, Is now well under way. In fact, 
the contest closes Just one week from 
today.
The Shilling, which is conducting 
this contest, offers as an inducement 
to contestants a prize of $20 to be 
awarded to tho writor of tho best 
short story. This prize has been given 
by members of the faculty of tho Eng
lish Department, who are interested 
in fostering any latent literary ability 
which we may have on tho campus.
The contest is open to Carnegie 
students, men as well as women. Un
der these circumstances a large num
ber of stories should be submitted, 
and who knows but what some bud
ding genius may be discovered. 
Stories may be as long or as short as 
the writer wishes, as no length limit 
has been set. They will be judged by 
their successful execution rather than 
by length.
The result of the contest will be 
made known as soon as possible after 
the stories have been judge'd, and the 
prize winning story will be published 
in a future issue of the Shilling.
All would-be prize winners should 
send their stories to the Shilling, in 
care of Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College. The contest closes on March 
10, and all stories must be in by that 
time.
The big event of the pre-Science 
stag season is the popularity contest 
this week to determine campus colobrities whose shrinking violet disposi
tions have caused them to shy from 
the plaudits of college recognition. 
This election and the sale of tickets 
for the infiuitesimal price of fifty 
cents mark the approach of the an
nual get together of "good men and 
strong, March 1-1. ,
The stag this year is to bo exclu
sively for Science men, but all Fresh
men of Science and Industries are eli
gible to attend, and it is expected that
they will avail themselves of this 
chance to attend a real Carnegie cel
ebration.
Tho privilege of voting is open to 
all thoso permitted to attend and be
cause the eloction is not an exclusive 
Senior affair all are to be considered 
candidates. Section leaders will bo 
given ballots Wednesday and they are 
responsible for tho voting of their 
groups. Tho ballots are to be left in 
a box at. tho entrance to Science 
school before Thursday night.
The various Offices to which after 
(Continued on Page Four.)
ELECT FIRST NIGHT 
STUDENT COUNCIL
'CALIFORNIANS TO 
PLAY FOR GREEKS
TED WEEMS TO 
PLAY FOR SOPH 
HOP ON FRIDAY
Special Lighting to Enhance 
Splendor of Ball Room 
at William Penn >
OBIE AND EDDIE 
NEWMAN TO SING
Novel Plan to Aid Dancers in 
Finding PartnersSpe
cial Taxi Service
To Operate UnderConstitution 
Similar to That of Day 
Council
! Atlantic City's Favorites 
Come Here by Special 
Arrangement
to
RECENTLY APPROVED TICKETS ARE $5.00
George M. Iliruing, has been elec
ted president of the first Night Stu
dent Council. Hirning, who is a stu
dent in the evening course In Civil 
Engineering, is also vice president of 
the night students of tho College of 
Engineering.
Other Council officers elected, are: 
vice president, Edward E. McDonald, 
of tho Department of Industrial Arts, 
College of Industries; secretary, Miss 
Frances K. Scliultheis, of the Depart
ment of Painting and Ilustratlon, 
College of Fine Arts; and treasurer, 
Daniel H. Kaney, of the Department 
of Arohitocture, Collogo of Fino Arts.
Tho plan to ostabllsh a Night Stu
dent Council to supervise all night 
student activities was approved re
cently by a majority voto of tho stu
dents, tho ballot boing conducted by 
mail. Under tho constitution ap
proved by the students, tho mombors 
of the Council includo the ofneors of 
the night classes of tho Collogo of 
Engineering, College of Industries, 
and Collogo of Fino Arts.
The new Night Council, tho first In 
tho history of ovoning cTTursos at 
Carnogio, will operate along lines 
similar to thoso of the Day Student 
Council, and will bo In charge of all 
night school activities including 
dances, meetings, athletics, and otlior diversions.
Sophomore Girls Banquet 
Mar. 14, Schcnlcy Hotel
Next wook wlion tho Soph Hop Is 
over, tho Sophomore girls will lot 
nothing ontor their minds but thought 
of their own banquet to ho held Satur
day, March 14, at tho Hotel Schenloy. 
There will bo 110 whispering, 110 mys
tery about tills affair. The dato and 
the place are now made known to 
everybody. At six-thirty, on that 
eventful ovoning every loyal Sopho
more girl will find her way to tho Oak
land hostelry.
Of courso, nothing could lcoop them 
away but there aro sovoral details of 
the program that will attract ovon 
those of doubtful class spirit. The 
menu Is commended by the.committee 
as boing "wonderful and Incidental
ly is said to be tho biggest item, 
though "daring favors and a spicy 
program are promised. The price of 
this noble entertainment Is, as yet, 
not definitely settled, but Is expected 
to be about $3.50.
The Maggie Murph and Arts Sopho
mores plan to make tills second an
nual Women's Sophomore banquet the 
triumph of the schools social calen
dar. Just once a year the Soph girls 
are permitted to be excluslvo and this 
is the time. It is a tradition that the 
girls of '27 expect to preserve in the 
grandest manner possible.
The committee is composed of the 
Sophomore social chairman from M. 
M., Bots Lesser, and Eunice Clark, 
Frances Keiser and Rebecca Calderwood are the other M. M. representa
tives on the committee. The Arts 
School girls on the committee are 
Armee Pharo, Marion Truesdale, Vir
ginia Larsen, Annabelle Hoskins and 
Grace Glennon.
The far-famed Californians, an 
orchestra of national reputntion will 
fill the ballroom of tho Schenley Ho
tel with popular dance melodies, at 
tho lntorfraternity Formal on Fri
day, March tho thirteenth.
Tills band of music disponsors 
boasts oC olov,en highly trained ar
tists, who know what collogo dancors 
like, and 0*111 be relied upon to causo 
the pedal extremities to move auto
matically. They wore Atlantic'Citys 
favorites last summer, and aro said 
to havo more rhythm than the waves 
crashing 011 tho boacli. California 
has not soon tho Californians for a 
long time for the Golden Gate syncopaters havo Just completed a tour 
of tho Koltli Vaudeville circuit, In 
and around Now York City,
Tho wook of tho Formal, this ag
gregation of musicians will bo fea
tured I11 Cloveland, and it Is only by 
special arrangement that, tho com
mittee was ablo to got them down 
for tho 0110 night, especially since It 
Is Friday, tho thirtoonth. Tho Greeks 
are certainly fortunate to havo tho 
"Californians for their annual party.
All Wandering Grooks 011 the cam
pus will naturally want, to attend tills 
affair, and they can socuro tho 
1 nocossnry pasteboards from Paul 
' Bowron, or a niombor of tho comI mlttoo. Tho tax for the party Is on
ly live dollars, and that Includos a 
woiulorful supper at mld-nlght from 
tho unsurpassed culslno of tho SclionJoy.
Dancing from nine 'till two to the 
swoet strains of tho Californians 
011 tho smooth floor of tho Schonloy 
Ballroom, an enticing food, and last 
of all the romance of a dance 011 Fri
day, the thirtoonth, all for a live spot, 
Such a proposition Is Irroslstlhlo,
On Friday of this week, Ted and 
1 Art; Weems, and their nine fellow 
I melody masters will blow into toWn, 
j blow in town, and blow out of town, 
j and the last of Carnegie's great Four 
'School S'oph Hops will have become 
historya history fraught with sweet 
| memories for all concerned.
In a recent letter to the commit
tee, Ted Weems intimated that the 
Indomitable spirit of Carnegie has In 
somo manner got into his bloodper-' 
haps at the Carnegie Junior Prom, 
where he and the ten other heavenly 
harmonlzers (Created such a furor. Ha 
says in part, There Is 110 affair at 
which we would rather play than at1 
a Carnegio dance. There will bo 
few funeral marches 011 the program 
this Friday evening, apparently.
The Hop Committee has boon oxtromoly diligent in its work this year. 
They havo devised a schomo worthy 
of Carnogles most efficient ofllciehcy 
experts, for preventing, tho usual con
fusion caused by couples seeking 
other couplos with whom they havo 
agreed to oxchango dances, The 
plan will bo fully explained in tho 
program. Briefly, It consists of the 
letters of the alphabet boing hung in 
succession around U10 balcony of tho 
ballroom. By mooting undor the In
itials of tho last namo of ono of tho 
men in tho party exchanging tho 
danco, all possible tlmo and onorgy 
will be savod for dancing. Even 
Sherlock Holmes could not got lost 
with this system In force.
In addition, an agreement has bocn 
reached with tho Yellow TiiScI Com
pany whereby a special fleet of cabs 
will he stationed In the East lOnd, to 
transport only Soph Hoppers, at upoe(Continued en I,'ago Four)
Dr. Norris to Speak 
In Union Mar. 9-10
A.C.S. President to Speak on 
Organic Chemistry
KILTIE HAND CONCERTS 
IM.EASE AT SCHENLEY
Metallurgical Research Bureau Under Direction of 
Dr. F. M. Walters is First Attempt Made at Carnegie 
To Undertake Definite Scientific Research Plan
The establishment of the Metallur
gical Research Bureau is the first at
tempt which has been made at Car
negie to undertake a definite research 
program. This department, which Is 
under the supervision of Dr. F. M. 
Walters, lias for its purpose the study 
of problem^ connected with the iron 
and steel industry from a purely 
scientific viewpoint. Local or specific 
difficulties encountered by a manufac
turing plant can usually bo taken care 
of by the consulting engineer, but 
problems of general Interest confront
ing the steel industry as a whole and 
of such a nature that It would be unprofit.ohle or impossible for the indi
vidual plant to attempt their solution, 
frequently remain unanswered. The 
investigation of such questions is best 
considered from a scientific rather 
than a purely commercial viewpoint, 
and this is the function of our Mettalurgical Research Bureau.
With an installation of equipment 
well designed to undertake researches 
of such a general and extensive na
ture, the bureau gives promise of bej ing of inestimable value to the field 
j of metallurgy. The X-ray laboratory 
i completely equipped and under full 
| operation Is especially Intended for X* 
j ray analysis of metals, a field of rej search which has gained considerable 
ground recently. Dr. V, N. Krlvobok, 
research associate of the bureau, lias 
prepared the following discussion of 
{ an Investigation which he Is conduct; ing at the present time.
J The analysis and control of finished 
| metal articles can well be done by 
means of an alternating current magI netic process. Tills method, although 
j in. the preliminary, or so to speak, re! search stage," has been found to prom! ise most far reaching possibilities. As 
: it is used at the present time, it afi fords the possibility of the compara
tive test only. That is, if a number of 
articles, for instance needles usod in 
Ihe weaving Industry, are subjected 
1 to this test,, one will obtain a very 
j exact picture of the uniformity of the 
1 product. Those articles that may be 
different In composition, heat treat; ment, mechanical stresses, etc., will 
j he separated by this method from 
those that aro uniform In all mention
ed respects.
j Of course tho advantage of this 
j method lies in the fact that expensive 
| articles such as tools, chains, nlbblerS 
j or what not, can be examined without 
being destroyed as Is the case with 
j mechanical testing or mlscroscopic Inj vestlgatioji. In this connection It will 
J be of Interest to mention that recent1 ly a large, number of punches used on 
j nibbling machines were tested. All of 
i these nlbblers were passed by the 
; factory inspection after supposedly 
! (Continued on Page Two)
The Kiltie Hand strengthened Its 
hold 011 the public heart In Its appear
ance at tho Schonloy Thoator 011 
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, of 
last week. Tho band played to capa
city audlencos at most performances, 
and acquitted Itsolf qulto creditably, 
to jtulgo from the applause,
As an opening foature, the new 
ten-pioco jazz, orchestra, composed 
entirely of band members played sev
eral selections from the orchestra pit. 
The orchestra was far from porfoet, 
due no doubt, to tho fact that it was 
so recently orgamzed, but. its ren
ditions were woll received by tho 
audience.
As an Interlude berore the Intro
duction of tho band, Miss Amy Glassford, of Arts School, sang two songs 
before tho curtain. She was espe
cially good in "Rose Marie. Her 
voice captivated the audience, and 
her personality completed her 
triumph.
The curtain rose to the tune of 
"Dear Old Tech. The forty odd 
Kilties, their newly cleaned uniforms 
almost dazzling in their whiteness, 
seated in a semi-circle on chairs with 
special white covers, each emblazon
ed with a large plaid C presented a 
pretty picture. The band played four 
selections, and surprised even their 
oldest friends with the perfection or 
the performance. No one could have 
desired better harmony and rhythm 
from a school band than was 
achieved In the Superba Overture, 
and the Lassus Trombone.
On the whole, it Is doubtful wheth
er many schools in the country could 
have put 011 a musical program of 
such scope and quality as Carnegie 
produced at the Schenley last week. 
The Kilties are now preparing for 
their big eastern trip during spring 
vacation, and using their success at 
tjhe Schenley as a criterion, It Is saTe 
to say that they will bring credit 
and fame to Carnegie In this enter-1 
prise.
Y OFFER8 8UMMER CAMP
WORK TO INTEREST STUDENTS
An excellent opportunity Is offered 
to men Interested In summer camp 
work by tho Y. M. C. A. through the 
"Y camp at Springfield, Mass. Mr. j 
Davis, the local secretary, has receiv-1 
ed a letter from the head of the camp I 
Inquiring as to the possibility of ob
taining leaders for the camp for this 
summer. Men who are interested are 
requested to call at the "Y office to 
obtain further particulars.
Dr. Jarnos F. Norris, president of 
tho American Chemical Society, and 
profossor of organic chemistry at 
Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology, has boon engaged to give a 
series of two public loctures at tho 
Carnegio Instltuto of Technology on 
Monday and Tuesday evenings, March 
9 and 10. 'Pile general subject of the 
sorios will be tho "Ronctivity of At<>ms 
and Groups In Organic Compound,,r f 
Dr. Norris Is one of the country'.*-' 
best-known chemists. Ho Is a grrnfu 
ate of Johns Hopkins University, Y.W 
celvlng his Ph.D. degree in the same 
class with Dr. Thomas D. Baker, pres
ident of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, in 1895. Dr. Norris was a 
mombor of the faculty at Massachu
setts Tech from 1895 until 100-1, leav
ing there to become professor of 
chemistry at Simmons College in Bos
ton. After 11 years at Simmons, he 
went to Vanderbilt University for a 
years service, and In 1910, he return
ed to Massachusetts Tech as profos
sor of organic chemistry In charge of 
graduate students in chemistry.
in addition to his work as president, 
of the American Chemical Society and 
as a professor at M. I. T., Dr. Norris 
is chairman of division of chemistry 
and chemical technology of the Na
tional Research Council. He has also 
had a notable war record with tile 
Chemical Warfare Service, and is the 
author of many well-known works 011 
chemistry topics.
The lectures will be given at 8:30 
each evening in the Union. The pub
lic Is invited to attend without admis
sion tickets.
DANCE BY RUTH ASTON TO
FEATURE SATURDAY HOP
Saturday, March 7, there is to be 
a dance held by Margaret Morrison 
girls in tho Union. The Carnegie 
Collegians are lo furnish the music 
and the .hours aro to be as usual, 
from nine to twelve. A special fea
ture also Is guaranteed to ho forth
coming in the naturo of a dance by 
Miss Ruth Aston of the Drama De
partment.
This danco prom Isos l.o bo a, sort 
of "Post-Soph-IIop" that even Freshmen aro permitted to attend, in fact, 
everyone Is most cordially welcome. 
The assessment is $1.25,
TO CORRECT AN ERROR
Hi the Issue of February 18th. under 
caption. No Recess to be Granted for 
Washingtons Birthday, the state
ment appeared that the Easter recess 
begins APRIL 16th. This was an er
ror as the Easter recess begins April 
4th and runs to the 1-lth.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 3, 1925
 Cwnep jfe-tan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie InBtltute o 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the Postoillce uf Pittsburgh us second-class mutter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
F. D. ROSSINI
A3SOCIATE EDITORS
A. E. KROGHE. C. FRAZIER
L. H. Harris
EDITORIAL STAFF
A. F. Carson R. It. SltzlerD. A. Gardner
FRICD T. PHELPS
MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR8
ALUMNI EDITOR
REPORTERS
It. L. Lepper, M. Hollinshead, M. Dutt, E. Tallmadgo, M. Tucker, R. Hand, 
C. J. Byrne, S. P. Williams, N. Borzella, M. Cohen, S. Well, F. L. Grant, E. 
CADDN II. L. Myers, L. V. Twohlg, F. Finn, F. A. Kolb, A. V. Norn, A. Wlngold, 
L. Kelly, M. Stump, M. Nuttall, W. Kimmol.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
Marguret McFall, J.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
F. Harris, .T. A. C. Follor, McWilliams, D. M. Davidson, 
William Bernardi, B. Krl'stof.
BUSINESS MANAGER
ADVERTISING MANAGER
D. MOSKOVITZ ..
CIRCULATION MANAGER
The Week 
in the 
Worlds News
By Leslie P. Beebe
BUSINE8S ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexunder, J. L. Bauerle, J. P. 
Stri/.uk, Lois Snyder, A. Perreton, G. H. Curl. B. Supowltz, L. Sachs, II. 
Kundell, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore, R. L. Grlbble.
The Edltor-ln-Chlef is responsible 
Managing Editor for the make up.
for the policy of thiB puper; the
The Tartan welcomou all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the s'-udent 
post oillce before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OillceRoom 12, Industries Building. Oillce hoursDaily 12:30-
FOOTBALL COACHES
SUMMER SCHEDULE ! Drama Department to Cosmopolitan Club to Hold EASTEUR EDAA,M, TMH7 
IS NOW AVAILABLE Give Four Short Plays Exhibition at Heinz House 8M:30, D:TPIAAW EAOO!
Undergraduate and Teachers 
Courses of Six and 
Eight Weeks
Students to Present Work of 
Noted Playwright
An exhibition of the works of art The appointmentof V. B. Smith
It is ol! interest to note the action taken last week by Yale, 
Princeton and Harvard in regard to the salaries of the coaches. 
Roughly the idea is to limit the salaries, and also prevent the giving 
of bonuses to successful coaches by over enthusiastic graduates.
There lias been quite a bit of argument during the past year on 
the commercializing of college sports, and the salaries of coaches has 
boon given as one of the outstanding evidences oil the fact, Of course, 
there are several ways to look at the question, but there is one angle 
we ha.ve on the subject which has not yet been brought out.
It is this. There is little argument that a good man deserves all 
lie can get, and that the best man in his profession should receive 
an infinitely greater salary than others. Great surgeons, great ac
tors, superior engineers, all can practically name their own salaries 
and get them. Now consider the football coach, lie is given a 
certain amount of material to work with. It is his job to build that 
material up into a good team, keeping the morale high, keeping the 
boys in good physical condition, and at the same time teaching them 
to play the game so that it will, be beneficial both to themselves and 
the good name ol! their school. IIo has to do this year after year, 
with good material and poor. It is a fallacy to say that only the 
winning coaches receive the high salaries. Many coaches who have 
never coached a championship team receive largo salaries.
Buthere is the point. They do their job, and a hard one it 
is, in such a way that the results are satisfactory to that most criti
cal. group iu the world, a college student body. They build up each 
year a team which is a credit to itself, and to its school. We have, 
thou, a mn.il doing the hardest job in the world, working with the 
brains, and, the bodies ol' other men, and disciplining them in a way 
which will be ol the utmost benefit to them when they are out ol! 
.school.
Who would say that a man who can do this well is not excep
tional? Bxporienco proves that such a. man is diificull to obtain; the 
Miliarias are indicative ol! that I'ac.t. It is not exeORsivo commercial
ization ol' college sports; it is the logical .operation ol the law of sup
ply and demand, '.iilcononiics, not business.
There is the argument put forth that he gets much more than 
the avorago professor. Here again, \ve have the law ol' supply. There 
are many more men capable ol! touching mnthemaiies and history 
than eaii touch football. IVor football is not an exact science; it is 
life, concentrated into certain forms, and limited as lu lime. It is 
a much harder job to teach a man to work with his fellow men to 
their mutual benefit Ilian it is to tench him how to solve a problem 
jn physics.
We do believe, however, that the salary of the head coach should 
not bo greater than that of the head of the college. While the foot
ball coach directs, in a measure, the destiny of a small group of 
students, the president looks over them all. Ilis job is more nearly 
like that of the coach than is that, of any individual professor, while 
Inhas a much larger group of students under his supervision._______
Student Calendar
Chapel..............
THURSDAY, MARCH 5
...................................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, MARCH C
Four One-Act Plays.......................................S :30 P. M., Little Theater
Soph Hop............................................9:00 P. M., William Penn Hotel
Basket BallPleb.es vs. Indiana Normal...........................At Indiana
.Varsity vs. Grove City..............................At Grove City
 SATURDAY, MARCH 7
Saturday Night Dance.................................................8:30 P. M., Union
Basket BallPlebes vs. lviski..........................................At Saltsburg
Varsity vs. Westminster................At New Wilmington
Four One-Act Plays....*.......1...........................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
MONDAY, MARCH 9
Four One-Act Plays........................................8:30 P. M/, Little Theater
TUESDAY, MARCH 10
General Assembly.......................................................11:30 A. M., Union
Four One-Act Plays.......................................8:30 .P. M., Little Theater
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11
Four One-Act Plays................................................S:30 I
THURSDAY, MARCH 12
Chapel..........................................................12:50 P.
FRIDAY, MARCH 13
Interfraternity Formal.................................9:00 P
SATURDAY,. MARCH II 
Sconee Stag..........................................................
1. Mr. Patten Criticizes the Tranoportatlon Act.
2. The New Anglo-French Debt 
Agreement.
3. Plano to Reduce Income. Taxea.
A. biwlnoss mail's point of view iC
what the Wall Street Journal calls the 
opinion of Mark W. Patten, who, un
til recently, was a member of the In
terstate Commerce Commission and 
whose article in the recent "Nations 
Business calls attention to obvious 
defects, lie criticizes the transporta
tion act iu that it liasplanned to 
remap the railroad system of the 
United States, planning a great many 
consolidations, and has expected, by 
merely telling the railroads to combin, that it would bo quietly and ef
fectively accomplished, while the 
members of the commission rested on 
their laurels.
To quote Mr. Patten, he wants: 
'consolidation that will preserve com
petition, create systems of balanced 
strength and efficiency, improve serv
ice, prompt economy, Stabilize credit, 
avoid disturbances, allay anxiety, fa
cilitate the flow of new funds from pri
vate sources, encourage efficient and 
economic management, and operate 
under proper governmental supervi
sion and regulation." This all means 
that Mr. Patten does approve of mer
gers but in a different way than that 
which the law proposes. He believes 
in a natural combination absorbing 
the weaker lines gradually and ex
changing the higher priced stocks for 
the lower ones, all this under the 
regulation of the I. C. C.
In other words, let the I. C. C. have 
a plan of consolidation that would he 
the host for the countrythou encour
age consolidation under regulation by 
the commission. Instead of telling 
the Pennsylvania railroad that they 
have to absorb the Norfolk and West
ernto do so would probably make 
them balkallow them to absorb with 
the sanction of the commission but 
force them to check up on some weak 
points in consideration of the proposet consolidation. It is not that Mr. 
Patton doesnt agree with the act, but' 
merely that he thinks the methods of 
putting it Into effect lack judgment 
and a knowledge of the psychology ot 
peoples and companies.
* * *
The debt situation has taken a new 
turn witli the announcement by the 
two English ministers, Mr. Churchill 
and Mr. Chamberlain, that they are 
ready to reach an agreement with 
France by which Franco is to pay a 
nominal sum each year, plus a per
centage of Gorman reparations. This 
Is an entire change in policy from the 
Balfour plan which the country has 
adhered to up to the present.. Eng
land will now have to take a renewod 
Interest in Germany and the plan is 
fraught with great political signifi
cance, Under the Balfour plan, 
France owe^so much regardless of 
Germany's payments that England 
cared little about the regularity and 
amount of German reparations. Now, 
tills Is all different.
The actual proposal Is a nominal 
payment; of between 1,000,000 and n, 
000,000 pounds and a (I to 8 per cent 
ol! Franco's r>2 per cent share of in 
domnity. This would give England 
around a 10 per cent Interest in tin 
German money paid over. The' roa 
son for her change of attltudo Is a 
matter of speculation. She apparont 
ly either expects the Dawes plan to 
work, or found this to he 'the only plan 
that Franco would agree to. The lat
ter is probably nearer the truth. Now 
the only thing left to bo done Is to got 
France to agree to the proposal.
 * *
The ways and moans committee of 
the House under Chairman Green and 
Andrew Mellon, secretary of the treas
ury, are busy preparing new tax plans 
on tax reduction, plaifs which they 
| hope to get passed before January 1, 
1920. Sweeping reductions are plan
ned. especially on incomes of more 
than $10.000. One of the proposals is 
to pull tbe maximum surtax charge 
down from 37 to 25 per cent. They 
expect much opposition but feel that 
the reductions of the past year on 
small incomes ought now to be passed 
on to the man who is fortunate enough 
to get more.
One .of the reasons for talking re
ductions is that from all indications 
of receipts, we shall have a surplus of 
many millions above the $67,000,000, 
that Mr. Coolidge promised to save. 
Economy and reduction are a fine pro
gram, and reduction in big incomes 
also unless the burden is quietly shift
ed to the consumer off the wealthier 
mans shoulders.
The schedules of subjects for the 
Summer Session of 1925 have been 
mimeographed and distributed to the 
offices of the Directors and Heads of 
Departments concerned. Students 
may obtain copies at room 230 B,
Central Building.
Summer courses fall in two main 
groups, eight weeks courses for un
dergraduates of the Institute, and six 
weeks courses arranged primarily 
for teachers of Music, Fine and Ap
plied Arts, and Manual and Industrial 
Arts.
All the undergraduate courses, with 
the exception of field work in survey
ing, begin Monday, June 15. Each 
subject is made equivalent to the 
work of a semester by being sched
uled for twice the usual number of 
hours a week. The courses in Archi
tecture will continue six weeks, end
ing July 25; all other undergraduate 
courses are scheduled for eight 
weeks, closing August 7. The three 
courses in surveying, to be given at 
the camp at Davis, West Virginia, 
will begin Thursday, June 11, the sec
ond day after commencement. All 
the courses offered primarily for 
teachers will begin June 29 and end 
August 7.
In cooperation with the United 
States Bureau of Mines, a four-weeks 
course in Coal Mining will be given 
from June 15 to July 14.
The general tuition fee for class 
instruction in the Summer Session is 
$25, $35, or $45, varying with the 
number of semester units scheduled.
In addition to the summer courses 
given on our own campus, the De
partment of Music and the combined I 
Departments of Painting ami Illus-i The evening service of the Third 
trationn and Applied Art will Klve| united Presbyterian Church, Shady
of different countries and natioualij as editor, Harriet Merwin as associ........................ u " " ate editor, and Nelson H. Poe as busi
ness manager of the 1925-26 students 
handbook, was confirmed at a meet
ing of the Student Council, Tuesday, 
February 25. This staff is particu
larly qualified for the position, since 
all the members are persons of abil
ity and experience.
Y. B. S'mitli, the editor, is beBt
ties will be held by The Intercollej giate Cosmopolitan Club at the Heinz j House on March 21, 1925. Those 
Four one-act plays, that promise to j wj10 were present at the exhibition 
equal the best of this years producJ jn Pittsburgh several years ago 
tions, will be presented in the Little j an(j Were disappointed at the small 
Theater, this week by the Drama Dej number Gf countries contributing, 
partment. j wm pleased to note that the Club
Brains. the first of these plays, i expects to have displays from about j
is a melodrama written by .Martin 1 eighteen countries of the world, and known as News Editor of the Tartan. 
Flavin, who is the author of many j will present to the interested public j3 pledged to Pi Delta Epsilon
successful plays, including Children works of several kinds j and is a member of the Phi Kappa
of the Moon and "Caleb Stone 
Death Watch.
The play "Where Love Is, Tl.\re 
God Is Also will create unusual in
terest, since it was written by Ben 
Iden Payne, director of the Drama 
Department of Carnegie Tech. In 
this weeks production, it will make 
its first appearance on the stage.
The Death Watch is one of the 
series of dramas about a famous spy, 
that was written by a promising 
young Chicago playwright, Kenneth 
S Goodman. In his memory, the new 
Memorial Theater in Chicago is be
ing erected by his parents.
The cast, in the above plays, will 
include all the upperclassmen of the 
department and their interpretation 
of the plays should be of the highest 
caliber.
Last Saturday, the freshmen very 
successfully presented Creatures of 
Impulse before a large audience in 
the Carnegie Music Hall. The play 
was written by W. S. Gilbert and it 
was staged by Mr. Wallace of the 
Drama Department.
at the University of Pittsburgh.
The Final Announcement of the 
Summer Session is now in the hands 
of the printer, and will be off 
press early in March.
The,, University of Pittsburgh has j and Theta Tail fraternities. Miss 
placed the Heinz House at the disJ Merwin is one of the committee re
posal of the Club, and the committee j sponsible, for the success of the Wois hard at work to make the event, mens Junior Prom, and a member of 
the crowning success of the year, j Pi Sigma Tau, the womens journalisAccording to the present arrange-1 tic honorary, corresponding to Pi Delments, the Heinz House will be divi-1 ta Epislon. Nelson Poe is Advertisded into booths of convenient size 
to accommodate the different coun
tries. Besides the exhibits, the mem
bers of each nation will demonstrate 
their native Ingenuity in exhibiting 
dances, songs and tricks.
Most of the European and Asiatic 
countries will be represented. Amer
ica will have more than one booth 
and will show its own rarities since 
the Colonial period or earlier.
The Cosmopolitan Club requests 
that anybody interested in the work , *
or possessing articles that will be a| APPilFn ARTS SPNIOR 
valuable addition to the exhibits 0f!MrrLIi:L; 0
any country, communicate with the I 
Committee, care of Carnegie Tech i
Post Office. ---------------
.-----------------------The new Carnegie Seal which has
ANNUAL SMOKER HELD BY ; been designed by Eddie Miller, Senior
ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT ; of Applied Arts, will be brought beforethe Student Council during this week 
and from all indications, is sure to 
receive favorable judgment.
The new seal will be employed exing Manager of the Technical Jour
nal, a member of Alpha Tau Omega 
and Theta Tau fraternities, and a 
pledge to PiSDelta Epsilon.
The new handbook, to be issued 
next September at registration, for 
the instruction of old and new stu
dents, will not depart materially from 
the present form. It is desired, how
ever, to make it more accurate, .as 
for instance, in the matter of the Stu
dent Calendar.
DESIGNS STUDENT SEAL
CARNEGIE TECH NIGHT
AT THIRD U. P. MARCH S
six courses on the campus of the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh for students, the 
major portion of whose summer work 
Is not in technical fields.
For the most part the courses of 
the Sommer Session will be conduct
ed by members of the regulur staff 
of Carnegie. There will, however, be 
several guest instructors. Dr. Will 
Earliart, Director of Music of the 
Pittsburgh Public chools and Lectur
er in Music of Carnegie, will give a 
series of five special lectures in "Prin
ciples of Music Education from June 
29 to July 3. Mr. C. Valentine Kirby, 
Director of Art of tlie State Depart
ments of Public Instruction, will be 
present from June 29 to July 11, for 
consultation and informal talks with 
students in the Departments of Paint
ing and Illustration and Applied Art. 
Miss Lillie B. Held, a graduate of the 
Department, of Music and teacher of 
music in the Pittsburgh schools, will 
give tiio courses in music scheduled
avenue and Northumberland street, 
for .Sunday, March 8, will be especi
ally for Carnegie Students. The ser
vice will be called Carnegie Tech 
Night and Dr. Woodfin, pastor of 
the church has issued an invitation 
to all students to attend. Dr. Baker 
will speak, and some special music 
is being arranged. Dr. Woodfin, who 
will preach a short sermon, is well 
known on the campus, having spoken 
several times at chapel exercises.
Fraternities, dormitory groups or 
other organizations who may wish 
to appear in a body may reserve sec
tions of seats by applying for them 
at the Y. M. C. A. office.
The Electrical Department held j 
their annual smoker last Friday! 
the nteht in Machinery Hall, with' stu
dents and faculty of the correspond
ing course at IJniversity of Pitts
burgh as their guests. Eta Kappa 
Nu honorary fraternity was in charge 
and presented a varied program of 
stunts, speeches, eats, and movies.
Mr. Porter presented the various 
speakers, and passed over the dull 
moments with a continual run of hu
morous remarks. Members of the 
faculty made impromptu speeches, 
recalling old times and old traditions.
By special connections a glee club 
quartet at the Schenley Hotel sang 
to the engineers. The S'ophomores 
presented a farce on Radio Broad
casting, but were defeated in a fu
rious but (non-spirited) pop drink
ing contest with the Juniors. The 
winning stunt was devised by the 
Seniors who showed in shadow
graphs a medical operation with suit
able college coloring An electrified 
Punch and Judy show and refresh
ments concluded the affair.
1st Co-ed: "Where are Tom and 
Mabel? .
2nd Co-ed: "I saw them in the hall 
having a race.
1st Co-ed: "Who won?
2nd Co-ed: "I dont know they 
wore neck and neck when I left.
ALVIN
M., Little Theater 
. M., Little Theater 
M., Bohonley Hotel 
....7 :30 1*. M Union
METALLURGICAL RE
SEARCH BUREAU
).)(Continued From Pago On 
very careful visual examination. The 
magnetic tasting has separated out 
about five par cent of the nlbblors 
which showed very different charac
teristics. Those wore examined very 
thoroughly with a great loss of time 
and were found to contain very mi
nute cracks, hardly visible to the un
aided eye. These cracks, undoubted
ly resulted from the rather severe 
beat treatment to which the lilbblers 
are subjected in the course of manu
facturing.
At the present time the bureau is 
carrying on a very important and in
tensive investigation which is to sup
plement the work simultaneously car
ried on by the committee on magnetic 
analysis of the American Society for 
Testing Materials.
A large number of bars of high
After a year in Now York, "Little 
Jessie James'' comes to Pittsburgh, 
and appears here this week. One of 
Paul Whitemans bands comes with j 
the gay and original Broadway chor
us. 'Phis is the play which starred 
"I Love You, from which the writer 
made royalties from 3,000,000 copies.
DAVIS
Hondlnl cannot escape from Pitts
burgh. Ills second week will bo de
voted to the exposing of the mystorj 
lous mediums tricks such as slate | 
writing, bell ringing, otc.
Bobby Folsum, a singing comedi
enne, will caper and cavort. La Bernicla, America's foremost TerpsiehorUui (la spite of the Spanish name) is 
assisted by Olga Morselli, violin vir
tuoso, Ethel Bixby, harp soloist, and 
others.
Bert Baker, the farceur, will be 
abetted by a small cast iu "Prevari
cations, which is a story of an Ananiacal husband, a jealous wife, and 
a secretary!
Joe Browning, a monologist and 
songster of originality, will deliver' a 
Timely Sermon. Frank Wilson will 
appear in Cycle-ology". Harold and 
Court:, in make-up characteristic, will 
do dances. Coster and Mencken will 
sing topical songs.
'Supporting Miss Talmadge in this 
oxcellent picture are Wallace Mac
Donald, Brandon Hurst, Alf Gouldlng, 
Dorris Lloyd, Walter Long and 
others.
SHUBERT PITT
This week wo are fortunate in hav
ing "Hell Bent for Heaven as the 
feature. This play won the Pulitzer 
Prize for being Americas Best Play. 
It is a red-blooded Comedy Drama, 
and will repay all who go In enjoy
ment.
GIVE INFORMAL DANCE FOR 
OUT-OF-TOWN JEWISH STUDENTS
clusively for student activities such 
as the Junior Prom, Tartan and Pup
pet. Any activity or event on the 
campus may obtain permission to use 
it, if the managers petition the Stu
dent Council, which will have power 
to control its use. Although the cut
ting of the design and the casting of 
the plate will take some time, the seal 
is assured for Campus Week.
The seal will contain some of the 
characteristics of the school seal, but 
it will have distinctiveness of its own. 
The outside circle will contain the 
words, Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, Pa., 
and the lamp of knowledge will be re
tained. Underneath the lamp a vase 
shaped design will embrace the let
ters E. A. I. and M. M., which repre
sent the four schools of Carnegie. 
This central portion will be entwined 
on both sides with thistles.
ing program has been arranged.
The dance is limited to out-of-town 
students. Anyone that has not receiv
ed an invitation call Charles Gronauer, 
Hazel 5577.
The Women's League for Tradition
al Judaism will entertain the out-oftown Jewish students attending col
leges in Pittsburgh with an informal 
dance, Tuesday evening, March 10. 
The affair will be held at the Beth 
Shalom Community House, corner 
Beacon and Shady. A very entertainPATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves. 
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A M.
Preaching Service, 11:00A. M.
Young Peoples Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
'Jlilll!llll3!l!ll!||i:ill|[|||||!l!lll!l||!lll!l!l|li|||||||H!|||||||!|l!!!l!!|||!!!M
ALL
SEATS
25cSCHENLEY
ALL
SEATS
25c
SCHENLEY THEATER
siinod stool were prepared at one of 
the stool mills. The Ingots wore 
worked down to the size of about oneIvali Inch square. The resulting long 
bars have been cut to size, about. 10 
luehes, each bar bearing Us heat num
ber and also another number Indicat
ing the position or the KMnch bar on 
the long bar from which It was taken.
These bars have been given a mag
netic test, the characteristics being In 
this way obtained. The bars were 
then given the first heat treatment, 
the treatment being a standard one 
for high speed steel of this compost-^ Company 
tlon. The characteristics were again 
obtained and very interesting and 
promising results noted: it would be 
rather premature to describe the re
sults in detail. The bars are now 
ready to be given a second heat treat
ment to be followed by the magnetic 
analysis again and so on. It is hoped 
that by such an investigation, varifted 
and supplemented by other tests such 
as by the use of direct current meth
ods, to establish a basis for the con
trol of metal products by magnetic 
means, and to formulate an approach 
to the laws existing between mechan
ical, microscopic, and magnetic prop
erties of metals.
The present, investigation lias been 
made possible through the loan to the 
bureau of the mngntle A. C. outfit con
structed and operated on the princi
ples received by A. V. DoForrost in 
charge of the research of the Ameri
can Chain Company.
GRAND
Norma Talmadge as The Lady, 
will appear this week at this theater. 
The Criterion Male Quartet will as
sist the feature. It is one of the lead
ing organizations of its kind in the 
United States, and has four excellent 
soloists as members.
Miss Alice Heller, Americas Popu
lar whistling star, and Miss Catherine 
Cody, premier harp soloist, will offer 
a sp.ecial musical surprise feature as 
the added attraction at the Schenley 
Theater during me entire Aveek.
Colleen Moore is co-featured with 
Comvay Tearle in Flirting With 
Love the feature photoplay to be 
shown on Monday and Tuesday. Miss 
Moore plays a temperamental actress 
of risque, comedies, and Mr. Tearle 
enacts a hard censor of plays.
It is doubtful if D. W. Griffith ever 
labored more diligently in his career 
,,ou any work than he did in the pro
duction The White Rose, the fea
ture to be shown on Wednesday and 
Thursday. Mae Marsh, Carol Demps
ter, Ivor Novello, Neil Hamilton, and 
Lucille La Verne play the most imj portant parts. It is a tremendous 
j love story delicately and beautifully 
told.
"The Three Musketeers, the Fri
day and Saturday feature, is the 
most gripping and spectacular film 
ever produced by Douglas Fairbanks. 
It is based on the universally read 
classic by Alexander Dumas.
THEATER
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, GENL MGR.
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
Flirting With Love
With Colleen Moore and Conway Tearle
Adapted from Leroy Scotts great novel, Counterfeit.
Ed Lyons Comedy, THE LUCKY LOSER News Sportlight Film
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
D. W. Griffiths The White Rose
A tremendous loye story delicately and beautifully told. 
HAROLD LLOYD in "PINCHED Latest News
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
Douglas Fairbanks in
The Three Musketeers
The most gripping and spectacular film ever produced by Fairbanks. 
HAROLD LLOYD in THE FLIRT News Feature
All WeekMUSICAL SURPRISEAll Week 
ALICE HELLER, Americas Popular Whistling Star, and 
CATHERINE CODY, Premier Harp Soloist.
A Special Musical Novelty booked direct from New York.
ii!iiniinuiiiiiiiuiiaiiini!iin:jafli!uiiiiHiiuiifliniiiUDiii!iflinHiiii?njis!ni!iiiuiiHii!!aH!niiiiiiniiin!iiniiiiHii!iiiHiiaiiiinni3BiiiUBiHwniSWHDfly
PITTSBURGH ENGINEER 
ADDRESSES LOCAL A.S. C, E.
On Wednesday, February 25, 1025, 
Mr. F. A. Pruitt, a graduate of the 
University of Illinois, now Contrac
ting Manager of the Ilughes-Foulkrod 
Pittsburgh, spoke before 
the Student Chapter. American So
ciety of Civil Englueers, taking as 
his subject Sub-Aqueous Construc
tion.
Mr. Pruitt gave some very Interest
ing details concerning the construc
tion of the Pennsylvania Railroad 
Tunnel in New York City, from Sev
enth avenue Station to Long Island.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
SXJIKITIO^
Co ryres
HATS HABERDASHERY 
SHOES
MM1CT KT
Fifth Avenue at 46th St.
NEW YORK
SXJTo)
William Penn Hotel 
March 9th and 10th 
Jim Boyle, Rep.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. MARCH 3, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
iSSS
NOTRE DAME LOSES 
TO TARTANS, 36-31CHENL EYTHUYND!
PLEBES DEFEAT W. & J.; 
LOSE TO CAL. NORMALINTERFRAT LEADERS  
LOSE FIRST'GAMES!
Plaid Now Boasts of Initial 
Victory Over Famous 
Fighting Irish
The victory over our friendly 
enemies from South Bend, Ind., hist 
Monday night was a choice morsel 
for 'Carnegies basket ball team and 
its followers to swallow. The score 
was 36 to 31, and the five point Mar
gin of victory is a good indicator of 
the relative strength of the two 
quintets. Although the Irish dis
played some mighty snappy passing 
.at times, their atrocious work under 
the basket was the immediate cause 
of their downfall. Carnegie played 
a steady game throughout, and made 
most of her chances count; this was 
evidenced by the superior foul shoot
ing of the Tartans, who slipped 14 
out of 19 chances thiough the iron 
hoop.
The basketeers of Notre Dame 
Hashed nothing that would recall to 
one's mind the Twentieth Century 
Four Horsemen, but they were eager 
and willing notwithstanding the fact 
that their game clearly showed that 
the court rules in Indiana are more 
lax than in Western Pennsylvania. 
After the game, however, they had 
no alibis and nothing to offer but 
the highest praise for the Skibo cage 
artists. They took their defeat 
gracefully and showed the same fight
ing spirit in defeat as they have 
. shown in their gridiron victories of 
the past three 3ears. They loomed 
threatening at all times and the work 
of Crowe, McNally and . the sharp 
shooting Conroy stood out all during 
the game.
The Irish jumped into the lead at 
the start when Dahman dropped one 
from mid-floor and Conroy added a 
foul to this, but Willie Donohoe, the 
most brilliant player of the evening, 
tied the score single handed. From 
then on it was nip and tuck, first 
Donohoe or Amans popping one in, 
then Conroy or McNally coming 
through. Conroy seemed to find the 
west basket much to his liking, for 
he dropped four beautiful baskets in 
it the first half., With the score 
standing at 17 to 16 for Notre Dame, 
Wally Lynch sunk a foul to even it 
up, then Toots Amans counted for a 
basket as the whistle blew ending 
tthe first half.
The second half found the going 
a little tamer but there was no 
denying the speed and accurack of 
Carnegies . stars, Donohoe, Lynch 
and Amans, who scored five, two and'
 four goals respectively. Willie not
 content with five field goals, made 8 
out of nine shot's count from the free 
throw line. He was the high point
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday eveningsPrivate lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School
Not a public dance hall.
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announces  series of eight Sat
urday Evening Supper Dance3 
in the Rose Room at 9 oclock.
COVER CHARGE 51.25
Celebrated Meyer Daves 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.
The Tartan Pleges broke even in! 
their two games of last week-end. I 
On Friday night they handed the W. 
& J. Freshmen a decisive defeat, 22 I 
to 9. as a preliminary to the Varsity I 
contest between the two schools. The 
following evening at California, Pa., 
they were not so lucky, coming out 
on the small side~ of a 20 to 2S 
count.
Friday nights game was exceed
ingly slow, and it is impossible to 
realize, how the Plaid Yearlings were 
defeated earlier in the season by 
the same team. The Plebes had 
their own way throughout the entire 
contest. From the initial jump-off 
the Tartans took the lead, relaxing 
in the last half when victory was 
well within their grasp. Cowan and 
Munro stood out for the Yearlings.
The result of the California game 
came as a surprise to the members 
of Plaid aggregation. At the end 
of their half the score stood at 16 
to 4 favoring, Carnegie. Wolff, of 
the opponents, at this point broke 
loose and began dropping in field 
goals in rapid succession. His total 
for the game was eight, and nearly 
all of these were registered in tho 
last half. The score then stood 20 
to 20. Two free throws from the 
foul line put the California team in 
the lead by two points, and shortly 
afterward three goals from the field 
w-ere scored which raised the score 
to it3 final count, 28 to 20.
Earlier in the season the Plaid 
Freshmen had defeated the California 
quint 23 to 22 in the Skibo gym.
The lineups of the two games fol
lows :
Plebes22. Wash-Jeff.9.
Munroe ................F.................. Heizel
Hurd .....................F............... Fr'anzell
Ritts ......................C................. Grimm
Cowan ..................G.................... Bieve
Sebastian ............&................ Oursler
Field goalsMunroe 3, Hurd 1. 
Cowan 4, 1 Sebastian 1, Heisel 1. 
Franzell 2. Foul goalsWash-Jeff., 
3 out of 11; Carnegie, 4 out of 10. 
RefereeSlack. UmpireBaird.
Upset of Beta's and Victory 
of Theta Xi Feature 
Week's Playing
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
Plebes20. Cal. Normal28,
Hurd ...................;.F................... Wolff
Munro ....................F........................ Lee
Ritts .......................C............... Wagner
Sebastian .............G.............. Ashman
Cowan ...................G................... Bruce
man of the evening, 50 per cent of 
Carnegie total.
Carnegie Tecli36.
Notre Dame31.
Donohue ..........F............. Mahoney
Newman ..........F.................... Crowe
Conrad ..........C............. McNally
Amans ..................G................... Conroy
Lynch ...................G............. Dahman
Score by periods:
Carnegie Tech ...............19 1736
Notre Dame  ...................17 1431
Carnegie sugstitutionsBeede for 
Newman, Newman for Conrad, Glanz 
for Newman. Notre Dame substitu
tionsDienhart for Crowe, Kizer for 
Dahman, Nylkos for McNally, McNal
ly for Mahoney, Crowe for Dienhart, 
Dahman for Nylkos, Dienhart for
Crowe, Mahoney for Conroy. Field 
goalsDonohue 5, Amans 4, Lync1 
2, Dienhart, Kizer 3, Crowe 2, Mc
Nally Conroy 4, Dahimm. Foul goals 
Amans, 3 out of 5; Lynch, 2. out 
of 2; Newman, 1 out of 2; Conrad, 
none out of 1; Donohue, 8 out of 3 
Glanz, none out of 1; Conroy, 1 out 
of 3; Crowe, none out of 1; Mc
Nally. 1 out of4; Nylkos, 2 out of 
4; Dienhart, 2 out of 2; Mahoney, 1 
out of 1. Tim&s of periods20 m>rutes. RefereeCal Bolster. Um
pireA1 Slack.
Ho: "Id like to, interest you in a 
cotton gin, the cotton gin, you know, 
is one of the worlds greatest pro
ductions.
Hum: Is that sowell send me 
up a dozen bottles, Ill try anything 
once.
AH Tech Girls Are Invited to Visit
THE GIFT SHOP
and inspect Our Advance Spring Styles
The very latest in Coats, Suits, Dresses and Ensembled Suits.
We have what you want at prices you can pay. 
Come in and give us the opportunity to show you our stack.
SCHENLEY APARTMENTS FIFTH AVENUE
Fraternity basket ball resumed its 
normal schedule last week, but the 
results of . several of the contests 
were distinctly abnormal. Two 
league leaders, both hitherto unde
feated, were forced to 'bow to their 
opponents, and in each case the loss 
was sufficient to drop them into sec
ond place in the league standing. 
Only iu the Federal circuit did rela
tive positions remain unchanged.
Delta Tau Delta and Scobel Hall j 
continued their merry way in the i 
last named league by winning over] 
McGill Hall and Kappa Sigma Rho, j 
(respectively. Neither of these teams j 
has met a great deal of opposition j 
as yet, Scobell especially seeming j 
to win 'by large scores. A real j 
struggle is in prospect when these \ 
two meet at the end of the season. |
One of the big surprises was the j 
one-sided score run up by Phi Kappa ; 
at the expense of Beta Theta Pi, to ; 
wit, 21 to 4. The latter had been 
accounted one of the. strongest aggre
gations of the year but were unable 
to get going and after the firstquarter, failed to register a single 
score. The Phi Kappas, on the 
other hand,' did their best work in 
the final half, with Baum making 
several nice shots. They easily an
nexed the game and with it the 
league leadership, as they are the 
only ones in that section still unde
feated.
The greatest upset to date occurred 
at the meeting of the D. U.s with 
Theta Xi. The former weie just 
getting comfortably settled in first 
place having been' victorious in all 
previous encounters while the T. 
X.s were getting to be a reliable 
doormat in spite of a potentially 
strong team. However, when the 
dust settled, they had amassed eleven 
points between them, and Theta XI 
had just one more than Delta Upsilon. As a result, Pi Kappa Alpha 
crowded the D. U.s out of the lead 
in the National League, for both 
have lost one, but Pi K. A. is cred
ited with one more win.
Another contest which strayed 
away from the dope was the rather 
easy victory of Sigma Epsilon over 
Kappa Sigma; score, 17 to 7. The 
latter team was figured to be stagfing a comeback after dropping its 
initial pair of games, hut S. E. P. 
clearly showed enough superiority to 
win, and is now tied for second place 
in the American loop.
Kappa Sigman Rho, Iota Sigma 
Delta and McGill Hall divided games, 
each winning and losing one. Delta 
Mu captured its first victory o'f the 
season from Acacia, and Alpha Tau 
Omega defeated Beta Sigma Rho in 
a low-score encounter, thereby re
taining third place in their league.
No games are scheduled for Wed
nesday for next week, but six apiece 
are slated for Tuesday and Thurs
day.
Results last wee:
Theta Xi ............................................. G
Delta Epsilon ..................................... f
Pi Kappa Alpha.'.............................. 33
Woodlawn ......................................... 10
Alpha Tau Omega............................ S
Beta iSiigma Rho..............1.............. 4
Phi Kappa ........................................ 21
Beta Theta Pi................................... 4
Sigma Epsilon Phi............................17
Kappa Sigma ............................... 7
WE CANNOT WIN THEM ALL
Much as we would like to see our basket ball team win every one of 
the games on the schedule, we are not disappointed when an occasional set
back such as that handed to us by Wash-Jeff last week takes place. Since 
the second semester started the Tartaus have won six games and lost three, 
not at all a bad record considering that four games were lost and only one 
victory secured during the first seine'ster.
Another reason why the boys deserve a world of praise for their excel
lent showing is tho fact that they were without the services of a coach for 
some time. Coach Lubic has been on the sick list, and while Coach John 
Irwin of the Freshies did valiant work in tho dual capacity of Plobe coach 
and acting varsity coach, the best results could not possibly have been se
cured by this arrangement. Another thing that must not be overlooked since 
the team has been going so well is that Captain Midge Mattor had to with
draw from the team at a crucial time, leaving the quinteti without a leador. 
When everything is considered, the wouder is not that wo have lost a few 
games to powerful teams, but that we have been able to do as well as we did.
Our team does not have to take a back seat for anyoneit speaks for 
itself.
v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v 
*!? *
* CANDIDATES FOR TRACK *
* AND BASEBALL *
* MANAGERS WANTED *
*1* There is a big opportunity *5* 
:! for Plebes and Sophomores wish*; ing to got into a major activity *
* by coming out for assistant *2*
* track and baseball managers. *! 
*1* Report to Manager Scrimgeour
! of track and Manager Joynt *1* 
?J* of baseball any evening at
* training quarters in tho Field ? 
*5 House. If tho managers are not
in at tho time, toll your trou* 
^ bles to Boss Munhall,, and ho 
*!* will advise you what to do next. *
NOTRE DAME AND WASH-JEFF 
The past week has made history at Carnenie Tech. Notre Dame, 
one of the strongest teams in the Middle West, was forced to bow to 
the superior play of the Tartans in the Skibo gym. It was a bitter 
pill.for the Flqhtinpj Irish to swallowthat of losing a hard-fought 
contest to the Scotch, but they took the defeat gracefully.
Thus was another milestone placed along the highway of Tartan 
athletics. It was the first time any Plaid team had been able to 
wrest a victory from a Notre Dame aggregation, and from now on the 
feat should become easier for us.
Quite different was the Wash-Jeff combat. We have never de
feated Wash-Jeff at basket ball, thouqh we have beaten them in foot
ball. But next year is another year, and we shall see what we 
shall see.
SCHEDULE FOR TRACK 
IS ABOUT COMPLETED
UNFORTUNATE ACCIDENTS
The recent accidents which have marred the play in iuterfratornitydormitory basket ball are to be much regretted, to say the Teats. First Benny 
Kristof, of the Pi Kaps, suffered a broken "ankle, and less than a week after
wards Ev Plummer, of the D. U.s, had his collar bone broken.
Contrary to general uninformed opinion of the games in which these 
young men participated were exceptionally rough. In fact, thoy were quite 
ordinary. There is no doubting that there is, and should be, a groat deal of 
spirited play. No game is worth playing if the participants do not give their 
best. These accidents were simply a part of the gameliable to happen to 
anyone at any time. It is a chance the players take, and it is only to be 
expected that serious misfortunes will sometimes occur. It may be that 
other such accidents will not take place for a long time to come.
ONLY FOUR GAMES LEFT
The varsity basket ball team closes Its season this week, playing Grove 
City at Grove City on Friday and Westminster at Now* Wilmington on Satur
day. The plebes go to Indiana Normal on Friday and wind up their soason 
on Saturday against Klski at Saltsburg.
Grove City already holds a tliree-point victory over tho Tartans, and a
real battle is oxpectod when those toams como together again. Klslcl will
be the tough assignment for the Plebes, as that school holds a ono-sldod
victory over the yearlings.
COACH IRWIN GETS HELP 
It has definitely been decided to have John Irwin take charge 
of the varsity for the remainder of the year, on account of the ab
sence of Coach Lubic. Jimmy Robertson, former Plaid cage star, 
is handling the Plebes now.
It is not known what coaching arrangements will be made for 
next year, as Coach Lubic has been very much discouraged with his 
lingering illness and has not as yet decided whether ho will want 
to continue coaching next year. Should he wi3h to return, he prob
ably will be reappointed, as he has secured as good results as could 
be expected under adverse conditions. In the event that Lubic will 
give up coaching, there will be several capable aspirants for the 
position, as next fall the prospects for a good team will bo very 
bright. __________________________________________________
PLAID LOSE TO W. & J.; 
WINS FROM W. VA. WES.
Delta Mu 
Acacia ...
After Every Meal
Its flie longest-lasting confection yon can buy -and its a help to digestion and a cleanser i lor the mouth and teeth.
Wrigleys means 
benefit as well as 
pleasure.Our New 
Oakland Store
Corner Forbes and 
Atwood Street
is servinq a most delicious 
Lunch, also Evening Dinner.
We invite the students to 
meet their friends in the Reymer Store.
Delta Tau Delta................................. 20
McGill .................................................. 13
Scobell ................................................. 29
Kappa Sigma Rho...................... S
Kappa Sigma Rho............................. 32
Welch ................................................. 8
McGill ....................
Iota Sigma Delta.
Iota Sigma Delta. 
Delta Chi Rho..
The iCarnegio basket ball toHHors 
struck up against a snag last Fri
day evening whon they mot tho faststepping Wash-Jeff quint, losing by tho 
close score of 35 to 32, in a spectac
ular battle. The Tartans retaliated 
the next night, however, dofoatlng 
the West Virginia Wosleyan team in 
easy fashion, 35 to 28.
The Wash-JolT encountor was 
frouglU: with thrills galoro, at one 
time tho ball wont up and down tho 
lloor like a streak of lightning, oaoh 
team getting possession of tho In
flated pellet In turn and neither be
ing able to get a shot at the basket. 
The passing of Carlin and tho allaround work of "Big Boy Thomas, 
elongated center of tho Presidents, 
was all that kept the visitors in tho 
running throughout. Thomas' height 
enabled him to get the tip off every 
time, which was a decided advantage 
to the Wash-Jeff team.
Carnegie did not seem to play with 
their usual dash and pep, except at 
times. The work of Conrad and 
Amans stood out, though the * latter 
had some tough breaks on Ills long 
shots. Newman and Lynch played 
good guarding games.
The West Virginia contest looked 
like a walk-away for the Plaid, for 
they jump'ed off to a flying, start and 
were never headed. The guarding wa 
so close that the visitors did not 
score until fifteen minutes of playhad passed by. They came up to 
within four points in the second 
half, but the Tartan regulars were 
again injected into the fray and from 
then on it was all Carnegie.
The lineups of both games:
Wash-Jeff.35. Carnegie32.
Daley ...................F............... Donohoe
Fredericks ..1..F........... Newman
PITT RIFLE TEAM WINS
EASY MATCH FROM PLAID
Thomas .................C................. Conrad
Carlin ...................G................. Amans
Lylo ...................*. G.................. Lynch
Field goals-Donohoo 2, Conrad 
I, Amans 4, Lynch 2, Laloy 3, Frlori 
rleles 4, Carlin 3, Lylo 4. Foul goals 
-Donohoo, 1 out of 3; Amans, 3 out 
of 5; Lynch, 4 out of 4; Dnloy, 3 
out of 5; Fredorlcks, 2 out of 5; 
Thomas, 0 out of 1. Sustl.tutlons 
Beodo for Amans, Amans for Boodo. 
RoforeoBaird. Umpire -  Slack. 
Times of halves20 minutos.
. Wohl 
Kraus
1735
2128
Now that the track schedule has 
finally been completed, arrangements 
are progressingto start daily train
ing sessions as soon as possible. 
Some of the more experienced men 
have been practicing every afternoon 
along tho path around Flagstaff Hill, 
and it is only a mattor of a week 
or two before the soason will official
ly start. Coach Guy Halferty has set 
no definite date as yet, but it Is gen
erally understood that the ball will 
start rolling as. soon as tho basket 
ball season has finished.
The grading and resurfacing of tho 
track around the football field will 
probably ibogin some timo this week. 
It is possible that one of the campus 
gardners will be secured for tho sea
son to dovoate all this time to keep
ing tho track iu first class shapo.
Tho schedulo has boon fully drawn 
up with the exception of tho dato for 
the Pitt duel meot, which has not 
boon finally settled. Howevor, it is 
assuiod that the PlaUl will moot 
Pitt on tho cinderpath, and tho dato 
will bo announced later. Tho Ponu 
relays, one of tho high spots of tho 
soason, will bo tho Tartans first 
^conflict. In addition to tha mile rolay team, tho school will sond any 
othor mombors of tho squad who arc 
doing oxcoptlonal work In any of tho 
track or flold ovonts. Tho rolays 
will take placo In Philadelphia, April 
25 and 2G.
On May 2 AHoghony College will 
mot In a duel affair hero, and
GIRLS B. B. GAMES 
START THURSDAY
Series of Games This Month 
Will Determine Class 
to Receive Cup
The series of games for the girls 
inter-class basket ball championship 
will start Thursday afternoon at fourthirty in the womons gymnasium, 
whon tho Sophomoros moot tho first 
Design School team. Each class iu 
Margaret Morrison is represented by 
a team, while all of tho design 
school girls aro represented by two 
teams.
For several mouths practices have 
been held, but it Is only duriug the 
past few weeks that a largo amount 
of interest has been shown in this 
branch of girls athletics. It is hoped 
that interestwill be sustained dur
ing the roiuainder of the year.
Besides inter-class games, each 
cluss is scheduled to meet the corre
sponding Pitt girls team on the af
ternoon of Saturday, March 14, in 
our gym. Last year the Carnegie 
girls struggled with tho Pittites in 
Trees gym, and they are determined 
to upset the dope of last year by 
handing out dofeat to their neighbors 
across tho way.
During tho month of March, iuterclass games will be played every af
ternoon, excopt Monday, at fourthirty. These -games should arouso 
a little spirit in tho girls, and should 
be well supported by rooters. Tho 
following Is the tentative schedule, 
subject to change. If any datos are 
inconvenient the teams envolved aro 
roquostod to report Clio mattor at 
least throe days in advance so that 
another gamo may bo substituted.
March 5, Sophs vs. Doslgn I.
March 6, Plobes vs. Design II.
March 10, Soniors vs. Juniors.
March 11, Juniors vs. Design I.
March 12, Seniors vs. Doslgn II.
March 13, Sophs vs. Plebes.
March 17, Soniors 8,! Dosigu I.
March 18, Junior vs. Plobos.
March IS), Sophs vs. Design 11.
March 20, Soniors vs. Plobos.
March 24, Juniors vs. Sophs.
March 25, Design I. vs. Doslgn II.
March 21!, Soniors vs. Sophs.
March 27, Juniors vs. Doslgn II.
March 31, Plobes vs. Dosigm 1.
bo
Carnogio Tech-35. Wosleyan....28,
Donohue ...............F............. Brinkman
Newnian .................F............... Corcoran
Conrad ..................C................ Bullman
Amans .................(.}._.............
Lynch ..................G..................................
Scoro by periods:
Carnogle Tech....................18
West Virginia Wes........ 7
Substitutions: CarnogleBoode for 
Conrad, Conrad for Amans, Amans 
for for Beede. WesleyanReiter for 
Corcoran, Burdy for Bullman, Kishbauch for Burdy. Field goalsDono
hue 4, Newman, Conrad 3, Amans 3, 
Klshbauch, Reitor 2, Brinkman 4',
Bullman, Wehl, Kraus 2. Foul goals 
-Donohue, 2 out of 4; Amans, 4 out 
of 7; Lynch, 3 out of 5; Newman, 2 
out of 2; Brinkman, 1 out of 3; 
Bullman, 1 out of 1; Kraus, 1 out of 
3; Wehl, 1 out of 1; Burdy, none out 
of 1; Klshbauch, none out of 2; 
Reiter, none out of 1. RefereeWest
lake. UmpireA1 Slack. Time of 
periods20 minutes.
tho follow Inm week, which la tho dato 
sot for Carnegie's Intoraoholantlo 
tournament, Genova College will fur
nish tho opposition for tho I Mult! 
Varsity.
A two-contract has boon signed 
with Ohio Wosloyan, and on Friday, 
May 15, tho Ohlolans will bo Carnoglos guests In a moot to bo hold 
In tho bowl.
Tho Slclbos have boon Invltod to 
enter a team In the annual PILL Intorcolloglatos on May 23, and will 
doubtless prosont their best combina
tion it this content. Tho affair will 
bn hold on Schenley Oval, and has 
always In tho past, proven one ol! 
tho biggest drawing card In tlio LUOY 
Stato district,
AL this early date, It Is Impossible 
to say just what tho prospects for 
tho soaoon are, hut many good men 
are known to bo In school, and aro 
oxpoetod to turn out whon the call 
for candidates la Issuod, AL prosont 
there Is no track captain, and an 
soon as tho Loam begins to tako a 
dollnlto shape, elections tor this olflco 
will be held.
According to Manager Scrimgeour 
thoro la a decided lack of sophomore 
and freshman assistants In splto of 
the' signs which have boon posLod on 
tho bulletin boards. 'Exemption from
SONS AND DAUGHTERS OF
ROTARIANS ENTERTAINED
The Rotary Club of Pittsburgh en
tertained the sons and daughters of 
the Rotarians on Friday night, Feb
ruary 20. With a banquet which was 
given in the Carnegie Irfn. Students 
from the different educational instltutlons of tho city atlondod, DlrocLor Connelley. who is a member of 
tho Rotary Club, had charge of Ilio 
arrangements. Dr. Baker made 
short talk in which he welcomed Lhe 
guests to the instlLuLion.
INTER-FRAT-DORM SCHEDULE
Wook of March 1, 192G.
March 3
Sigma Nur Kappa Sigh ma-7:30.
Dolta Upallon-BoSH...7:30.
Beta Theta Pl-Slgma Alpha JOpsllori 7 : ?,.
Delta Tau Dolla-Kappa Sigma Rho 
8:30.
Delta Phi Dolta-MoUl 8:30.
Phi Kappa-Dolta Mu 8:30,
March B
Theta XI-Hondoi'son7:30,
Pii I Kappa-Acacla...7:30.
Bota Bigina Rho*Boss7:30,
Dolta "PHI Dolta-Welch -8:30.
Delta Chi Pho-ScOboll -8:30!
Delta Tau Dolta-lota iSigma Delta 
-8:30.
physical training classes will bo ac
corded all underclassmen who go out 
for Lheuo positions. Thoso Interested 
should report at tho lift Id lipUHO any 
afternoon this week.
Pitt encountered no difficulty in 
trimming the Tartan rifle team in 
matches shot off last Thursday and 
Friday on the Carnegie Range in the 
Arts School Building,'the final score 
being 1821 to 1729. The leading 
shooters of the Panthers were as fol
lows: McFarland, 382; Jordan, 376;
Means, 367; Hoyt, 27)5:, Coss, 36G; 
For CarnegieHughes, 360; Knap
penberger, 351; Wilson, 344; Reck, 
334; Smith 311.
interfraternity Standings
NATIONAL LEAGUE
DR. McGOWAN IS SCHEDULED
FOR MARCH Y. W. C. A. MEETINGS
Dr. Robert McGowan, pastor of the 
Bellefleld Presbyteriian Church, is to 
speak each Wednesday during March 
at the regular Y. W. C. A. meetings. 
His subject is to be "Leadership." The 
meetings are to be held in the Faculty 
dining room of the Carnegie Inn at 
12:50. Everybody is Invited to. atLend, 
and it iB suggested that attendance at 
these meetings would prove to be a 
profitable observance of the Lenten 
season. Dr. McGowan is a good friend 
to Carnegie students and is sure to 
have much of interest to say.
Beta Sigma Rho 
Woodlawn ..........
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Phi Kappa
Sigma Epsilon PHI 
Kappa Sigmav......
Sigma Nu 
Delta Mu
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Delta Tau Delta ............................................................... 4
Scobell ..................................................................
McGill ....................................................................
Kappa Sigma Rho .........................................
Welch ....................................................................
Iota Sigma Delta ...............................................
Delta Phi Delta .................................................
Delta Chi Rho .....................................................
. w.L.Pet
. 51.833
4L.800
. 32.000
2.fi00
. 22,500
13.250
1.200
X.000
W.L.Pet.
1)1.000
, -II.800
. -11.800
. 2 f.400
, 2?,.100
3' .250
4.200
4.000
W.L.Pet.
01.000
0] .000
. .*52.600
2.G00
. 22.50 0
4.200
. 03.000
. 04.000
Smiles yi$ht 
A back, at
The Fraternity of 
Business!
Bogin now to form tho jiniioclatloiut 
mul huhltii li)lit; will iwrvo you when 
you outer tho hunltionn world. A 
hunk account. naldo from tho tun* 
jrlblo value, furnliihen experience 
and contact which will operato to 
your advantajco In lator yeartt.
Tho pontonai intcroiit of Mellon of
ficer In tho financial welfare of 
dopoiiltoni hi ono of tho outiitandInx charactorhitlcil of tho inntltutlon. Our experience and huiiU 
nml Judgment are at your orvieti. 
Cajrftnl and SurpluH $12,000,000.00
Mellon National Bank
STUDENTS!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(A"'t for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
ILtUXEMK
CLOTHBS FOR THO COLLEGE MAN
The FLY-FRONT COAT
Broad tthouJdored, >y 
hangingtheir comervntiain 
proclaim their omartncfl.
Cut in lightwolghtnntlwinter 
weight woolen* in patterns 
approved by college men.
*3450 io H9
NAT LUXENBERG DC BROS. 
841 Broadway, New York
r~ NEXT SHOWING AT 
WILLIAM PENN HOTEL 
March 6th and 7th
Our style memo. book *cnt free on request

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 3. 1925
0EHUMNN CEGU
0
The Field of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College
CIVIL GRAD. HEAD j CLAN TMB, I 
OF REFORM SCHOOL ^------------------i
ALUMNUS TO STUDY! 
IN PARIS STUDIO
(By Director Mary B. Bccd)
Graduates of Carnogle who tiro ques
tioned about tho Margaret' Morrison 
Carnegie. College by prospective stu
dents probably hoar Homo like tho 
following! "Wlml; are tho on trance 
requirements? How much doe It 
cost for tho year? "How long is tho 
courseV What can I do whon I 
graduate?"'
Tho entrance requirement to' the 
Margaret Morriadri aro. tho same in 
all coursoB and includo fifteen units 
of high school preparation, of which 
only two units may be Jn vocational 
subjects, Cooking, sowing, short
hand, typewriting, bookkeeping and 
drawing. Two units of either Latin, 
French, or some other modern lan
guage.is required, and one and onehalf units of algebra and one unit of 
geometry. Students who have not 
entirely fulfilled the entrance re
quirement a aro admlted with condi
tions, provided their high school re
cord is satisfactory in other respects.
For the girl who is obliged to earn 
part of her expenses, we provide an 
employment bureau, but it is advis
able that students should not attempt 
to earn much money during the first 
year of their college course. For tui
tion and the student activities fee, 
two hundred dollars is charged, as in 
the other colleges of Carnogle. Tho 
womens dormitories provide room 
and board at rates which vary ac
cording to the room. Four hundred 
dollars, however, is usually enough 
to cover all necessary expenses for 
room and three meals a day, light, 
beat, etc.
Tho Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College gives a groat deal of instruc
tion in tho same general subjects as 
are taught in academic collogos, but 
in addition to giving a well-roundod 
college education it prepares all oi
its graduates to hold remunerative 
positions. At tho present tlmo short 
courses aro offorod to special mature 
Students, or graduates of other col
leges, bufc.Htudents directly from high 
school spend four years to get the 
B. 8. dogroo.
Homo Economics Is ono of, the 
most popular of our courses. Secre
tarial Studios probably comes next. 
Less popular, but equally valuable, 
are the courses In Social Work, Li
brary Training, General Science, and 
tho Secretarial course with English 
Minor. Those latter, In some cases, 
lead to oven more interesting posi
tions than tho courses that, aro hot
ter known.
Graduates of the Margaret Morri
son Collogo find no difficulty in se
curing good positions. They must, of 
course, begin as Inexperienced work
ers, and salaries frequently begin as 
low as ninety dollars a month, al
though tho averago at beginning is 
probably a good deal higher than 
that. The sciile of salarlos in Social 
Work and Library Work is now im
proving from year to year. Secre-| 
tarlol positions pay more or less ac
cording to business conditions in the 
country.
All .but a very small per cent of the 
Margaret Morrison graduates take 
paid poslLions for a year or moro af
ter graduation. In fact, iL is Lhe fash
ion Lo do so, and girls of Lhe present, 
day who fall Lo get a HLLle experience 
In a paid poslLIon are behind tho 
times. How long Lliey sLay in their 
positions depends somewhaL , on Lhe 
porsuasivo powers of certain men 
friends. Sooner or laLer mosL of them 
go InLo homos of Lhelr own, and lliey 
are unanimous In their opinions that, 
their college education makes them 
better wives, housekeepers, and 
mothers.
J.W. Herron, '12, Issues First 
Report as General Supt. 
of Reformatory
ALUMNUS IS PLACI: 1) ON 
ALTOONA H. S. FACULTYTERRA COTTA INST. 
OPENS HERE SOON
Carl ITausor, formerly ol' Carnogle 
Tech, was recently ol^ctod by tho Al; 
toona School Board Lo 1111 a1 position 
of InstrucLor in mechanical drawing 
in Lhe Sonlor high school of that City.
Hauser Is LwonLy-oIghL years old, 
and was registered in Mechanical 
Engineering in 1018-19, 11)20.21. Since 
loaving boro ho has boon employed: 
as a draftsman for Lhe Pennsylvania 
Railroad for ovor two yours. Hau
ser homo Is In AlLoona.
SCIENCE 8TAG CONTE8T
TO ELECT MOST POPULAR
SENIORS THIS WEEK 
(ConLInuod From Pago Ono.)
long calculation and careful IntograLlon, Lhe appredatlvo students aro to 
raise their deserving contemporaries 
are: Biggest bluffer, MosL handsome
(many candidates with ono vote ex
pected), Has tho best lino, Busiest, 
Luckiest (passing maLhomuLlos Is a 
requisite), Popplost, i.a/,lest, Boat 
dressor, BosL dancer (men only), BosL 
politician, MosL ladylike (thin election 
in only for lilnglnoorlng school), 
Wisent crnekor, an<l lies), handshaker,
AI Mlnettl is to prosont the winners 
with tokens ?>f material kind symbol
izing the Hold In whloll their works 
have begun to bear fruit, and In which 
they have boon nolootod as leaders by 
their admiring classmates.
The faculty, realizing that, their 
Stunt will completely outclass the 
skits of the undergraduates, have 
uslcod that their act bo excluded from 
competition for tho cup. Mystery 
surrounds Lhe class offerings, which 
are progressing rapidly; but Lhoy 
promise Lo be bolLor Llmn Lhe faculty 
expects.
Freshman: Our Latin teacher
must be pretty old.
Soph: What makes you Lhlnlc 
that?
Freshman: "lie told the class ho 
taught Caesar and Cicero for live 
years.
Hillsdale Collegian.
For favors, programs, noise-makers, 
paper hats, "Tech jewelry, calling 
cards, greeting cards and small gifts 
Singer Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins Ar
cade.
Craig Restaurant
Tho place whore all tho follows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
Conference Under Direction 
of National Terra Ctta 
Society and C. I. T.
Plans are being made to receive 
a. large attendance at, Lhe Lhreo-dny 
Terra Cotta Institute' -to bo held at 
Carnegie on March 17, 18, and 3.0, un
der Lhe co-operation of Lhe National 
Terra Cotta Society and the school, 
according to an nnnouncement from 
Dr. C. B, Connolley, DlrecLor of Indiinl.rlnl HohiLIons.
The object of tho InsLlLul.o, says 
Lhe announcement, Is to bring togeth
er the people directly related to the 
terra cotta Industry and to Impress 
upon the public what; Is possible In 
the development of art, In building 
construction.
The Institute will consist of lec
tures and demonstrations on terra 
eoLLa, the ceramics of terra cotta, the 
boat treat,ment, of terra cotta, Its col* 
or schemes, and Its construction, A 
apodal feature will bo an exhibit, of 
designs and drawings In color, terra 
cotta In panel form, Interior doooraLlon and polychrome cornices, The 
exhibit, which will later be placed In 
the Metropolitan Musoum In Now 
York, will be furnished by tho Na
tional Terra Cotta Society.
All of the meetings will bo hold 
at Carnegie, and to permit many 
architects, artists, and builders who 
would bo unable to attend meetings 
during working hours, special night 
sessions are being planned. Assist
ing Dr. Connolley in arranging a pro
gram for the institute aro represen
tatives of the Pittsburgh Chapter of 
tho American institute of Architects, 
Lhe Pittsburgh Architectural Club, 
Ceramics Club of Pittsburgh, Pitlsburgh Builders Exchange, and Board 
of Education, in addition to the Na
tional Terra CotLa Society.
The Commillee of Lhe Carnegie 
faculty includes Professor Russell 
Hyde, Professor Frank Hitchens, and 
Walter Stulen of the Department of 
Architecture; John T. Morris, Direc
tor of tho College of Industries, and 
Clifford G. Dunnells, head, and 
Charles W. Larkin, of the Depart
ment of Building ConstrucLion;
It, 1I mosL InLeroBLIng to note tho 
variety of positions and types of 
work In which the Engineering gra
duate can bo found.
In this connection, we find a gra
duate at a typo of work which would 
probably bo tho last place we would 
look for a Civil Engineer from any 
school and especially from Carnegie.
General Superlnlendent of a Iteformalory. Who would have guessed 
IL? Well, LhaL Is where we find one 
of Carnegies earliest graduates. At 
the .Pennsylvania Industrial Reformatory aL HunLingdon, Pa.
He is nono other than .Tames W. 
Herron, who entered Carnegie at Lhe 
formallon of Lhe first night, class in 
1905. He has Lhe disllnclion of be
ing one of Lhe first present on the 
opening night in SepLember of that 
year. After attending for five years 
he received his diploma in 1910. NoL 
being saLisfled with Lhis, he pushed 
on and secured a B. S. degree in Lhe 
Spring of 1912 in Civil Engineering.
Immediately after graduation, Her
ron was appointed Chief Engineer of 
construction in the erection of the 
new Western Penitentiary at Rockview, near Bellefonle, Pa. This peni
tentiary is said to be one of Lhe finest 
of its' kind botli in consLruelion and 
layout;. Placed out; in Lhe rolling 
country of a broad valley ,11 makes 
an Impressive appear&ncq.
In January of 1923, Mr. Herron as
sumed' his dulles as General Super
intendent aL tho Reformatory. Al
though he has had only one year at. 
Lhe place, he lias made a satisfactory 
record and much is expecLod of hiiVi 
in Lhe fuluro.
Their InmaLes are male between 
Lhe ages of flfLeen and Lwonly-flve 
who aro first offenders. In the re
port recently published for 1923, Superlntendent Herron states the fol
lowing:
Our problems aro many and tho 
attending responsibility of work of 
this character, is very great and very 
trying. Our prime purposo Is, and 
should bo, the Inculcating of 
thoughts, deslros and habits In these 
young men which should on Lhelr re
lease sLart, them on tho road Lo use
ful and honored citizenship. To ac
complish this It;' Is nocossaryfor 
every officer and employe to bo ac
tuated by high moLlves and a sin
cere desire lo help t.hoso young men 
Lo n higher and moro noble life, and 
this can only be done by precept; and 
example.
While t.hls may soom an unusual 
poslLIon for a Civil, their mothod of 
training Involves Leaching the boys 
trades and useful occupations. In 
this work scientific principles are fol
lowed.
Wo almost forgot; to mention a 
most important, contract in which 
Mr, Herron has an active partner. 
Tils partner being Miss Catherine C. 
Hun son from Margaret Morrison in 
1909, Tho conLract, was slgnod on 
October -I, Mill, since tho memor
able date, three dividend have been 
paid. Two of them are girls and tho 
other n boy.
While In school Herron was ac
tive In class affairs and committee 
work. Ho served as class president 
In bln Junior year. He is now a 
member of tho Board of Governors 
of Alumni Association.
NEW YORK CLAN
Ye scribe returns to Lhe columns 
of Tho Tartan:
Hearty thanks are extended to 
Kaybee for his write-up of the El 
Patio ParLy here on February 7, in 
last issue.
ft was more than words could de
scribe. The proof of Lhe pudding is 
LhaL representatives atlended Lhls af
fair from eleven different cilies, the 
furlhesl away being PULsburgh, 
Scranton and Hartford. Representa
tives from dans of other cities were 
mentioned in the previous issue.
The evening will be longremem
bered, and it is sincerely hoped that 
all of the guests will return again to 
the annual next year on which the 
committee has already starled ils 
work.
Department of Electrical Engineering
(By Prof. William R. Work)
Winner of Beaux Arts Prizes 
Chosen as One of Five to 
Represent U. S.
The New York Clan turned .out en 
masse for the luncheon at Stewarls 
Restaurant in honor of the Basket 
Ball Squad. Buddy Overend, L. H. 
Lee, and Burt Munhall were our 
guests.
After Lhe luncheon, mosL of Lhe 
visitors "did New York. One of the 
boys thought the Woolworth Build
ing was like I-IoraLio Algerso many 
sLories, ,;doncherknow._______
Everybody in Lhese parLs aLtended 
LhaL Basket Ball Game. The turnouL was Lhe greatest ever assembled 
at one Lime in Lhe easl. (N. B. other 
clans.) The di|.G. N. Y. Gym bulged 
every lime lhe Carnegie "Rooters 
slarled.
Never a belter game was played on 
any court. Nip and tuck all the way. 
No more than five points (in our 
favor) between the teams at any one 
time. It appeared that we should 
conquer Lhe conquerors of Fordham 
afterLhe latter had won thirteen in 
a row. C. C. N. Y., the most bril
liant passing combination ever seen 
by the writer on any inter-collegiale 
courL, lo be held by Carnegie to 
22-20. The greaLest defensive Leam 
in Lhe easl had lo musler all ils 
strength and courage to hold the 
fighting Tartan.
Less than a minute to go and ono 
baskel needed Lo Lie. A long slid 
lhe ball on Lhe rimlhe final whistle 
 the ball taking one and one-hair 
turns afound the rima tie game if 
it wouldBUT IT DIDNTyet Carnegio covered itself with glory.
The piclure of a mosl brilliant de
fense and the crafliesL passing com
bination against a furious, hammer
ing Incessanl attack of brilliant Indi
vidualslacking only a little more 
loam play for groat success in that 
game.
TED WEEMS TO PLAY
FOR SOPH HOP FRIDAY
LORD THOMSON
WILL SPEAK AT
GEN. ASSEMBLY
(Continued From Page One) 
eliminate this difficulty. This is 
merely a trial, however, and unless 
the students show more enthusiasm 
than they have in the past, assemb
lies may bo discontinued and classes 
scheduled during the hour set. aside 
for them. So bn prosont at tho Un
ion next. Tuesday morning at 11:30, 
if you would have general assemb
lies continues,
TO SECURE SONG LEADER
FOR GEN. ASSEMBLIES
I The Student Council, at Its mootI lug last. Tuesday, decided to secure 
a song loader for General Assemblies
__________________________________________Tho purpose behind tills, of courso, Is
i ,n'Stir up more interest In assemblies. 
 i since the council figured that. stngI ing by the entire body of students, 
j before and after assembly, would 
I heli) to got a bigger turn-out; and 
work up some or the old spirit, which 
seems to be missing these days,
Oakland Savings & ?
Trust Co.
Mei/ber Federal Reservo y 
System.
Capital.......................$300.000.00
Surplus......................$300,000.00 y
Deposits, Over -  - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
I
If the idea proves popular, stops 
| may be taken to secure song leaders 
for divisional assemblies.
It is hoped that at the first trial 
of this plan, the student body will 
turn out en masse, and by singing. 
 I shrieking, and shouting, prove to the 
[ j old grads that, if anything, we .have 
more Carnegie spirit than they had.
(Continued From Pago One.) 
ial rates. For this service, call Court r.700.
The dance hall will be illuminated 
buL not too much so. The spot
light, with four-color-disks, that were 
used for the Junior Prom and Lhe, 
ArLs Ball, will send forlh their very 
subdued beams for every other 
dancelliere will be some light for 
the remaining dances. The only de
corations will be ferns and palms on 
Lhe orchestra platform, as the slruclure and ornamentation of the ball
room itself is too beautiful to hide. 
The dance is informal.
For entertainment during intermis
sions, Obie Newman and Eddie, the 
latesl gift, of the Newman family to 
Arts School, will sing, and two other 
southern products, the pickaninnies 
who brought down tho houso aL the 
Arts Ball play, will dance.
The commiltee urges all who can 
to buy their tickets early, in order 
to prevent confusion at the door, and 
to alleviate tho work and worry of 
the commlttoe. Sophomoro class of
ficers, tho committee, and many oth
er active sophomores (an furnish 
tickets. Only -100 tickets will bo 
Mold, though thoro will undoubtedly 
be a demand for many more.
Just a Few Reminders
Friday night, March (i, nine to one 
a. in., Is the time.
Extravagant. Bill Penn Ball Robin 
is the place.
Ted Weems and his symphony ser
vers is the orchestra.
Court 5700 Is the phone number 
for special taxi service.
This is tho last four-school Soph 
Hops for Carnegie.
Only -100 couples will be allowed; 
?3.50 is the very reasonable price.
Alumni, Seniors, Juniors, and Soph
omores, are eligible.
Tomorrow afternoon a Soph Hop 
tea dance will be held in.the Union 
to advertise the affair, and provide 
an opportunity for meeting your 
.date and getting into the proper 
spirit for the "big time.
Renzo Rutili, a graduate of the Ap
plied Art Department of the College 
of Fine Arts, sailed last week for 
Europe where lie will study for nine 
monlhs. Rulili was one of five Amer
ican students who were awarded 
scholarships by the New York School 
of Fine and Applied Art for study 
abroad.
Surprise party at l.lie Gasile Inn af
ter tho game. About seventy attondod. The rosi of lhe crowd were too 
used up at the game to carry on that, 
night.
Guesls In formal alllre slopped 
aside for "Dear Old Tech and tho 
other Irrepressible expressions of 
joy, UNE DANSE, unrestrained mer
riment, good eats, and some golf In
struction thy "Peggy" entertained the 
group until after tho smallest hours 
hud flown.
Now York parlies are not meetings 
any moro, nor gatherings. They are 
"Institutions, it Is said.
Announcement of the Kiltie Con
cert, In the metropolitan district, 
about Easter time will go forward as 
the plans are made definite.
CARNEGIE VS. COLUMBIA ON 
THE GRIDIRON IN 192G AND 
1927??? We hope so. Lets start 
after it.
PHILADELPHIA CLAN NEWS
Dear Old Tech:
Things must be going fine back 
home from the report we got from 
the Basket Ball team. Buddy, Bert, 
and Coach Lee. Our boys have one 
pippin of a floor team this year. How 
do we know? Did you say? My 
gosh they took turns making field 
goals when they upset the Drexel In
stitute team in the Drexei gymnas
ium last Friday a week. Donohue 
got ahead of his turn and Lynch 
couldnt quite see another "Dutch
man taking more than his share, so 
he stole Donnies girl at the dance 
after the game.
Was there a dance? My Gosh Yes 
we wore all the wax off the gym
nasium floor in two hours after the 
game.
Getting back to the gamethe 
game wed been looking forward to 
for weekswe know it takes some 
hard work to put a winning team on 
the road. We like their team work, 
we like their red suits, and we like 
every dog-gonod one of em and we 
want em back next year again, pqrw 
haps to play Penn.
Once upon a time there was a fel
low at Carnegie and I was P. D. they 
called him. That follow hasn't lost 
an bunco of old time pop. Some how 
ho got us started at thoso old time 
yells and songs until you'd thought 
that the gym wouldn't hold tho noise. 
Oh yes, thoro was about thirty of us 
there with tho same lighting spirit 
wo had one or evon fifteen years ago,
Basket Ball at Carnegie, is coming 
back and no more ot that hoodoo 
sport well say after ^seeing our boys 
swamp the Drexel team which was 
at its best and rariii to down their 
next victims.
A darn good game and a good 
dance, but say Carnegie, all that 
cheering and enthusiasm was the re
sult of a peppy pep-meeting and din
ner at the Hotel Normandie. As I 
said before, thout thirty old timers 
managed to get there to greet the 
team, Coach and Mrs. Lee, Manager
RENZO RUTILI
The scholarship was awarded to 
Mr. Rutili by Presidenl Parsons of 
Lhe New York School of Fine and 
Applied Alt. He will sludy for eight 
months at the Paris Branch of that 
school, and will study for one month 
in Florence, Italy. The trip will.in
clude a visit to schools of Art in 
England, France and Italy.
Renato Rulili is 24 years old, and 
completed Ills course here at Car
negie in three years of day school 
and one year of night school. Rutili 
made conspicuous and phenomenal 
progress here at,, school and was re
commended for the scholarship by 
Professor J. B. Ellis, under whom 
he studied at Carnegie.
He completed the course in interior 
decorating and for four consecutive 
years offered Lhe drawing that won 
the Beaux Arts Prize, an award for 
which the students of the leading art 
schools of the country compeled.
Rulili left Pittsburgh on February 
26 sailed from New York on Febru
ary 28, and expects to arrive home 
from Europe by Christmas. During 
his stay in Italy Rutili will be privi
leged to participate in the festival 
incident to the observance oi Holy 
Year, which is celebrated at Rome, 
only once in every 215 years.
Renzo Rutili is a member of Phi 
Kappa fraternity, and along with his 
twjn brother, Rer.ato Rutil, was very 
ticllve in campus affairs, having 
served on Lhe ArLs Ball and Campus; 
Week committees.
Rulili was Lendered many farewell 
parlies and gifts of appreciation from 
his many friends at. his home in Donora, Pa., prior to his departure.
Rutili was employed during the 
past year by the Josopli Horne Com
pany of Pittsburgh, and expects to 
return to tho service of that company 
upon his return bore.
The course in Electrical Engineer
ing is designed to educate men to 
occupy positions in some one of the 
many fields of activity connected 
with the utilization of electricity in 
the service of man.
The present extensive and ever
growing use of energy to supplement 
or replace manual labor is largely 
possible, because of the ease with 
which this energy can be drawn 
from coal .or water-fall and Iransported by wires to distant points.' All 
of our means of rapid communica
tion are wholly dependent upon elec
tricity for their very existence. Many 
industrial processes could not be 
carried on withouL electricity, while 
others can be performed more econI'omically or conveniently by.its use.
The electrical work of the world 
j is accomplished by literally thoui sands of kinds of electrical machines 
| or devices, only a few of which are 
commonly known to the non-technical man. He sees the incandescent 
lamp, but he' does not see the chain 
of apparatus which is necessary to 
generate and distribute the energy to 
! the: lamp, or to control and protect 
! the circuits. He sees the relatively 
| simple telephone instrumenl, but he 
j does not see the maze of equipment 
in the central office.
Electrical engineers find opportu
nity for service in the development, 
design, manufacture, or sale of elec
trical apparatus and devices,- and in 
the selection and operation of elec
trical equipment. Electricity is so 
adaplable Lo a variety of uses that in
ventions and .extensions of use are 
constanlly being made.
Proposed applicalions require some 
sort of development before they are 
ready for adoption, accordingly num
bers of men trained in electrical
Cutting, Dean Munhall, and Buddy 
Ovor end.
President Einmel of the Philadel
phia Clan had every one of the Pitts
burghers toll what they knew about 
Carnegie and lie also had Vice Presi
dent Exline tell what we can and ex
iled, lo do for lhe good of Carnegie. 
In my next letter Ill tell you where 
we expect to have the Kiltie Band 
put on a concert in Philadelphia on 
April the eighth.
Yours in Carnegie,
A CLAN MEMBER.
CLEVELAND CLAN
Everyone who atlended the "Val
entine smoker of the Cleveland 
Clan pronounced it a success. It was 
held in the new club rooms of the 
Cleveland Engineering Society in the 
Hotel Winton, on Friday, February 
13. This particular day was selected 
because of absence of superstition in 
the properly trained scientific mind. 
Whether superstition or lack of su
perstition, the day must have had 
something to do with it for it was 
one of the most succesful get-to-togetliers ever held by the Cleveland 
Clan. The executive committee pro
mised a series of similar meetings 
at frequent intervals, and all present 
agreed to come and bring at least 
one other alumnus.
The smoker was conducted in a 
most informal manner so that every
one had a chance to. talk to everyone 
else. Nevertheless it was possible to 
have considerable discussion of the 
matters of interest to the alumni in 
"Round Table fashion.
George Eberling reported that iL 
would probably be possible for Lhe 
Clan to use fhe Cleveland Engineer
ing Society club rooms for similar 
meetings. Those club rooms are 
very comfortable and especially 
adapted to our meotings. Ho also 
onconraged alumni to affiliate them
selves with one or more of the pro
fessional societies. 4
"Winks Dowling told of some of 
his observations during the .past 
football season. "Winks has been 
acting as an official at a number of 
college games. The contacts gained 
in this way gave him exceptional 
ability to outline the situation in ath
letics as lie saw it.
J. C. Hobbs is now living in Painsville and the littlo matter of 30 miles 
of drive in order to come to the meet
ing meant nothing to him nor to his 
fellow residents . Bill Sdimucker 
and Curley Lauer. J. C. Hobbs 
seemed to be no less democratic 
than usual even after his recent as1 science are employed in research, 
j These men investigate physical phej nomena and co-ordinate their dis
coveries to produce a desired, use
ful result.
Designing engineers take the pro
duct of research, both recent and old, 
and calculate dimensions and specify 
materials to be used in the manufac
ture of electrical apparatus. This 
sort of work has been so highly de
veloped thal IL is possible to predict, 
quite accurately, the performance of 
a niacliine, such as a motor, before it 
is built. Designing engineers are 
frequently promoted to executive 
positions in charge of the manufac
ture of apparatus with which they 
are familiar.
Certain kinds of electrical appara
tus can be most effectively sold by 
men trained as engineers. Often the 
customer is not capable of specify
ing the apparatus he needs; the sales 
engineer discusses the problem and 
makes recommendations as to type 
and size of units required.
Corporations making extensive useof electrical apparatus maintain 
staffs of engineers to select and su
pervise the operation of the equip
ment. Functions of the same kind 
are performed by the engineering' 
staffs of power, companies.
The various positions listed above
call for somewhat different charac
teristics on the part of the individ
uals who fill them, but each of them 
demands a certain degree of knowl
edge of the physical laws which gov
ern the behaviour of electrical ap
paratus. Accordingly, the principles 
of electricity and the application of 
these principles to practice. Labor
atory wrork accompanies class-room 
instruction wherever this is pos
sible. To give a well-rounded 
technical education, extreme special
ization is avoided and courses in al
lied engineering fields are included.
sociation with Messrs. Schwab, Ivahp, 
etc., with whom he is setting on the 
Trustees CommiLLee. He was able 
to give a resume of what is happen
ing at school from,.first hand infor
mation.
There was considerable discussion 
of the part the clan should play in 
advertising Carnegie to prospective 
students of the desirable type. To 
make definite recommendations of 
inelhods, President Ebeling appoint
ed a committee. Red Godden imme
diately besieged the commillee with 
offers to become a paid representa
tive. He knew of no reason why his 
auburn locks would not ntlracl Lhe 
mosl desirable sludents. Offer re
jected!
The reporter missed considerable 
number of those present but did no
tice that in addition to the above 
the following were thoroughly .enjoy
ing themselves:
Messrs. P. J. Speaker, R. W. 
Steedle, IC. Schoepfle, H. M. Banner, 
M. G. Kingsley, A. R. Thomas, V. B. 
Koefed, W. T. Ammerman, A. C. May, 
Harry Gellen, Tucker Ames, R. V. 
Devney, J. G. McCrae, Charley 
Blescli, A. C. Danks, B. A. Emery, R. 
J. Humbert, R. J. Beler, M. J. Mon
aghan, R. L. Fulmer, J. P. Cahill', E. 
F. Lundeen, and Van Bethum.
ADVERTISING BUREAU 
IN SMITH-EARLY FIRM
PALMS DECORATIVE
MOTIF FOR '25 BALL
(Continued From Page One.) 
only add extra costs to lhe affair if 
an off-campus liall were selecled, and 
Lhis would add to the price of the 
tickets. This additional saving will 
be used for programs, decorations, 
and refreshments. The central lo
cation of the Union makes it easy 
of access, and eliminates the neces
sity of a long taxi haulor even a 
short one for the'dorms are not over 
four minutes away by tho slowest 
walking couple on the Campus, and 
there should be a full moon Dy March 
20.
For the benefit or those who would 
like to know, the Committee made 
the announcement that the estimated 
cosL of tickets at the last meeting 
was set at $3.50 based on 100 couples. 
It was found that the dance could 
not be run for this amount witlj no 
profits, but it is hoped that the Sen
ior Class will find means to raise the 
number of couples, for then the dance 
can be given more consideration. 
There are certainly more than 100 
Senior men on the Campus who 
dance, and if all men who are going 
could signify their intentions, the 
Committee may be able to cut down 
this price, or else augment their 
plans for the elaboration of the 
Union. It is possible that Prelimi
nary Tickets will be put on sale by 
the end of the week at 1.00, for the 
purpose of making the survey of the 
Seniors, and the Committee urges all 
who are going to the Ball to buy 
these in order that the estimate may 
be correct. It is for the good of the 
dance that this, is asked, and indirect10j" Yi. FLOVEEji RViiS
. FLOVER SHOP.
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbes
J. Mark Early and Ralph R. Smith 
of the firm of Early and Smith an
nounced recently that they have pur
chased the business of Paul A. Kra
mer, and are now localed in Lheir 
new offices in the Thrift Building, 
Sixth and Washington streels, Read
ing, Pa.
Both Mr. Early and Mr. Smith are 
commercial designers. Mr. Early at
tended Carnegie two years and was 
registered in Painting and Illustrat
ing in The College of Fine Arts. He 
is a member of the Sigma Alpha Ep
silon fraternity. Mr. S'mith is a 
graduate of Lhe Washington School 
of Art.
To serve the public better, states 
Mr. Early, we have added an adver
tising department for the handling'of 
all phases of advertising and with 
this combination will be able to of
fer the most unique service of this 
kind in the Reading section.
ly for the good of the Seniors, for it 
is their dance, and the Committee 
cannot do anything without their 
help.
CIVIL ENGINEERING
PITTSBURGH RAILROADS
(Continued From Page One.) 
tion. The men will have a chance 
Lo  apply civil enginering, and may 
afford suggestions that may solve tho 
problem.
GIRLS!!
ERES yur chance to see 
the wonders of Atlantic YH
City.
T
HE STRAND THEATER ofj 
fers to send the young lady 
selling the greatest number of *:* 
their books of tickets to this 
wonderful seaside resort, all exX 
penses paid.*:*F
OR further particulars call at 
the box office of the Strand 
' Theater. *
H
ERES your chance, girls 
be sure to get the full parX 
ticulars at your earliest convey 
' nience. X
Remember
The Strand | 
Theater |
OAKLAND *
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All new and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
606 State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pitsburgh, Pa.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Squa e East Liberty j
