PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Penguins struggle in early playoff rounds  A10Lives of the Saints disappoints audiences  B4
SPORTSSCITECH
Heartbleed presents dangerous security risk  A5
thetartan.org
@thetartan
April 21, 2014
Volume 108, Issue 15
StuGov votes on pay for executives
NOL UM
Assistant News Editor
Student Senate recently 
discussed a line item in the 
Joint Funding Committee 
(JFC)s budget for the upcoming ?scal year regarding supplying an honorarium for student government 
of?cials  a line item that 
was voted down by Student 
Senate, but will be either 
con?rmed or denied at a 
joint JFC rati?cation meeting this Thursday.
JFCs published slate 
read that each member of 
the student government executive committee, which 
includes the student body 
president (SBP), student body vice president 
(SBVP), student body vice 
president for ?nances (SBVPF), and student body 
vice president for organizations (SBVPO), will be 
granted a $1,000 honorarium per semester.
Student Senate voted 
7:12:3 on the issue  seven 
senators were for including 
the line item in the budget, 
12 were against including 
the line item, and three abstained from voting.
In order for the provision of ?nancing the student government executive 
committees positions to 
pass, Student Senate and 
the Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) need to approve of the budget  a 
motion that will occur at 
the joint rati?cation meeting this week.
Senior chemistry major 
and Chair of Student Senate Lukas Ronner said, It 
has been a contentious issue. What happened in 
Senate was that we knew it 
would be controversial and 
we wanted to bring it up as 
a point of discussion before 
the actual point on the slate 
so Senate would be better 
prepared to act one way or 
another.
At Thursdays Senate 
General Body Meeting, senators argued for and against 
the inclusion of the line 
item in the budget.
Those who were in favor 
of ?nancing the positions of 
student government executives asserted that student 
government executive positions require a great time 
commitment, and providing an honorarium might 
open up the position to 
those who would not otherwise be able to involve 
themselves with student 
government because of 
part-time jobs.
According to the American Student Government 
Association, 77 percent of 
student government of?-
cials at American universities are paid.
Junior statistics major 
and current SBVPF Jalen 
Poteat said, Im for paying student government 
executives because being 
in this position, and seeing the amount of time we 
put into our roles and the 
type of tasks we have to do 
in this position justi?es an 
honorarium. With the sort 
of things we deal with on 
a day-to-day basis  working with the administration 
and being the face of the 
student body  a small token of appreciation would 
alleviate some of the stress 
of day-to-day expenses we 
Kamlet steps down
BRENT HEARD
Contributing Editor
Carnegie Mellon announced a series of senior 
leadership changes over 
the past week, marking 
four transitions in key university positions. University Provost and Executive 
Vice President Mark Kamlet 
stepped down, and will be 
replaced in the interim by 
Associate Professor of Biological Sciences Nathan Urban as provost and Dietrich 
College of Humanities & 
Social Sciences Dean John 
Lehoczky as executive vice 
president. Additionally, the 
School of Computer Science announced last week 
that Google Vice President 
Andrew Moore will become 
dean beginning this August.
Moore is founding director of Googles engineering 
of?ce in Pittsburgh, which 
has strong ties with the 
university.
Ever since college I 
have been inspired by the 
world-changing ideas and 
technologies that come 
out of CMU. Im privileged 
to return to the School of 
Computer Science in this 
new role, Moore said in 
a university press release, 
adding, I have had a wonderful eight years at Google 
Pittsburgh, a place which 
I believe has the most creative and driven gang of 
computer scientists in the 
world.
In the press release, 
University President Subra Suresh said, Andrew 
Moore combines an expansive vision, scienti?c 
expertise, and leadership 
strength that make him 
extraordinarily well suited 
to be dean of the School 
of Computer Science.... As 
computing grows ever more 
critical to our global society, the scope of SCS and 
its importance to the world 
will continue to expand and 
its impact on the human 
condition will be more evident. Andrew is particularly 
well-positioned to lead the 
school at this time.
Kamlet joined Carnegie 
Mellons faculty in 1976 as 
a professor of economics 
and public policy. He went 
on to serve as the head of 
the Social and Decision Sciences Department and associate dean of the College 
of Humanities and Social 
Sciences (now Dietrich College). Kamlet also served as 
dean of the H. John Heinz 
III School of Public Policy 
and Management for eight 
years before being appointed provost.
Kamlet was appointed 
as university provost in 
2000, and was named senior vice president when he 
was reappointed as provost 
in 2005. When former University President Jared Cohon announced that Kamlet was becoming executive 
vice president, as well as accepting a second ?ve-year 
term as provost, he said, 
In our administration, the 
provost plays a central and 
especially important role 
in both day-to-day operations and long-term strategy. Mark has been nothing 
short of brilliant in ?lling 
this role. His reappointment is a great thing for the 
university.
Kamlets academic reMacGillivray, Chadderton give First Lectures
Michelle Wan/ Art Editor
Senior biological sciences and psychology major Lindsay MacGillivray (left) and senior civil and environmental engineering and engineering and 
public policy double major Colin Chadderton (right) spoke about their Carnegie Mellon experiences as part of Student Senates The First Lectures. 
CHLOE THOMPSON
Senior Staffwriter
Senior biological sciences 
and psychology major Lindsay MacGillivray and civil and 
environmental engineering 
and engineering and public 
policy double major Colin 
Chadderton gave lectures 
on the meaning of success 
last Thursday. The talks took 
place in Porter Hall, and were 
part of a series called The 
First Lectures, an initiative 
hosted by Student Senate and 
spearheaded by ?rst-year economics and statistics double 
major Vaasavi Unnava. The 
First Lectures were meant as 
a homage to Randy Pauschs 
The Last Lecture, which talked 
about achieving your childhood dreams. The topic of 
both Chadderton and MacGillivrays speeches was the 
meaning of success.
Chadderton spoke ?rst, 
and took the stage dressed 
in a dark blue onesie, which 
he took off during his introduction to reveal a more conventional button-down shirt. 
Were just gonna roll with it. 
Its gonna be fun, Chadderton said. His lecture relied on 
PowerPoint slides that illustrated his talking points, the 
most salient of which were a 
series of peaks and valleys 
Chadderton experienced 
during his time at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Chadderton described how 
his ?rst year of school was academically overwhelming, and 
he struggled to keep up with 
his classes. He stated that he 
compared himself to his classmates and found himself lacking. However, he eventually 
found his footing by asking for 
help and getting more organized. He said I learned how 
to survive here. But to thrive 
here, I needed to change my 
de?nition of worth. He went 
on to describe the importance of doing your best and 
not only comparing yourself 
to others. Soon after, he became an RA. Chadderton said 
that being part of Student Life 
taught him the importance 
of being comfortable even 
in uncomfortable situations 
and that life is a ?shbowl and 
people are always paying attention. Therefore, it is always 
important to be mindful of 
ones behavior.
Chaddertons lecture also 
included a game of BINGO 
 or COLIN, in his version 
 to engage the audience. 
The terms included comfortable in the uncomfortable, 
passion, (the importance 
of which Chaddderton discussed), and Colin sings, 
(which he did, a brief line 
from a Les Misrables song.)
Chaddertons ?nal point 
in his lecture was the importance of accepting change, 
because people become extremely different over the 
course of a single day. Chadderton framed that as a good 
and natural thing, saying, If 
youre the same person you 
were three months ago, you 
arent doing it right.
Fifth-year scholar in 
CMU appoints Jahanian VP of Research
GEORGE LEDERMAN
Staffwriter
Farnam Jahanian has been 
selected as Carnegie Mellons 
?rst vice president for research. As vice president of research, Jahanian will oversee 
all of the universitys research 
endeavors, including government relations and technology transfer.
For the past three years, Jahanian has served as the assistant director for the computer 
and information science and 
engineering directorate at the 
National Science Foundation, 
where he oversees a research 
budget of over $850 million. 
Jahanian also has hands-on 
experience with technology 
transfer. In 2000, he founded 
Arbor Networks to reduce 
denial-of-service attacks. 
Since then, the company has 
grown into a leading provider 
of network security, which, according to its website, protects 
70 percent of Internet traf?c 
globally.
We are excited to have Dr. 
Jahanian join us, said Jim 
Garrett, a co-chair of the vicepresident-for-research search 
advisory committee, and the 
dean of the College of Engineering. As vice president for 
research, he will represent, 
promote, and help to increase 
the research activities at Carnegie Mellon.
Garrett explained that Jahanian will seek to help create major research initiatives 
spanning the university. This 
initiative is similar to the role 
that Gary Fedder, Howard M. 
Wilkoff professor of electrical 
and computer engineering, 
currently holds as associate 
dean for research in the College of Engineering.
Fedder perceived early on 
the importance of additive 
manufacturing, better known 
as 3-D printing, and recognized that Carnegie Mellon 
had a number of key researchers across the college doing 
fundamental research in the 
?eld. Fedder played a key role 
in establishing the National Additive Manufacturing 
See RESEARCH, A3See PAYMENT, A3
See LECTURES, A4 
See TRANSITIONS, A4
Courtesy of Farnam Jahanian
Farnam Jahanian, assistant director for the computer and information science and engineering directorate at 
the National Science Foundation, will become Carengie Mellons vice president of research this summer. 

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 21, 2014
Corrections & Clari?cations
In last weeks issue, it was incorrectly printed that CIA 
won the Chairmans Choice award for booth. The Math 
Club actually won Chairmans Choice; CIA did not build 
a booth.
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the date 
of the issue and the name of the article. We will print 
the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and 
publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFPeace, Love, and Tie-Dye brings color to CMU
WEATHER
Underage drinking 
April 11, 2014
University Police, CMU 
EMS, and Pittsburgh city medics responded to the Mall outside of Baker Hall to treat an 
intoxicated student. The student was cited for underage 
drinking. 
University Police and city 
medics also gave medical assistance to an intoxicated 
woman at the Spring Carnival 
concert. The woman was visibly in need of assistance and 
con?rmed to be under the legal drinking age. The woman 
and three other students were 
cited for underage drinking at 
the concert.
Public drunkenness 
April 11, 2014
University Police cited 
a Robert Morris University 
student for public drunkenness after he fell in front of 
Doherty Hall and hit his face 
on the sidewalk. The student 
declined medical treatment, 
and was taken to the University Police station until he could 
be released into the care of a 
sober adult.
Underage Drinking
April 12, 2014
University Police and CMU 
EMS responded to the intersection of Forbes Avenue and 
Margaret Morrison Street to 
help an intoxicated student, 
who was then cited for underage drinking.
Another Carnegie Mellon 
student was cited for underage drinking after walking 
through a medical scene at 
the intersection of Forbes Avenue and Margaret Morrison 
Street.
University Police also cited 
a student for underage drinking after he walked through 
the Greek Quadrangle visibly 
intoxicated. The student then 
received proper medical care.
A Carnegie Mellon student 
was cited for underage drinking after becoming physically 
ill at the corner of Fifth and 
Morewood Avenues. The student was given proper medical care.
A student was also cited for 
underage drinking in Morewood Gardens after police 
received reports that he was 
knocking on doors throughout the building.
Domestic Situation
April 12, 2014
University Police responded to a Carnegie Mellon residence hall after receiving a 
domestic disturbance call. 
When the police arrived, they 
found that a male Carnegie 
Mellon student had initiated 
a physical and verbal altercation with his girlfriend, who 
is not a Carnegie Mellon af?liate. After a brief struggle with 
the police, the student was arrested and taken to Allegheny 
County Jail. The student has 
been charged with aggravated 
and simple assault, underage 
drinking, and resisting arrest.
The Simpsons cutout theft 
April 13, 2014
University Police responded to the Greek Quadrangle 
after reports of three people 
stealing cutouts of characters 
from The Simpsons at 1091 
Morewood Avenue. A member 
of the AEPi fraternity took pictures of the people who stole 
the cutouts, and University 
Police are working on identifying the thieves.
Suspicious Activity
April 14, 2014
University Police responded to the parking lot near 
Hamburg Hall after receiving reports of a man selling 
food out of his vehicle. The 
police escorted the man off of 
Carnegie Mellon property, informing him that solicitation 
is not permitted and further 
incidents will lead to further 
action.
Lab Theft
April 18, 2014
University Police are investigating thefts from a lab 
in Doherty Hall that occurred 
over the last six weeks, resulting in the loss of $700 worth 
of equipment.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Police closed down a section of Fifth Avenue between 
Shadyside and Squirrel Hill 
on Friday after a resident of 
the 5600 block called 911 
to report a package in her 
building making an audible 
ticking sound. When the 
resident found the ticking 
package, she tossed it out 
the window of the apartment 
building.
Lillian Reape, a senior 
electrical and computer engineering major, said that the 
police did not let her leave 
her Fifth Avenue apartment 
building during the incident. There is a man yelling 
through a megaphone at people who go outside or are too 
close to the window, Reape 
said during the scare, which 
took place around 1 p.m.
The package, which was a 
gift, turned out to be a metronome. The police did not ?nd 
any explosives.
Ticking metronome causes bomb scare
Kedia, Tayur donate $1 million to CMU
Alumna Gunjan Kedia 
(TSB 94) and her husband, 
Ford Distinguished Research 
Chair and professor of operations management in the 
Tepper School of Business 
Sridhar R. Tayur, recently 
gave $1 million to Carnegie 
Mellon. The pairs donation 
will support the construction of the David A. Tepper 
Quadrangle, an expansion 
of campus stemming from a 
$65 million donation from 
David A. Tepper announced 
last November.
In a joint statement quoted in a university press release, Kedia and Tayur said, 
Our 20-plus years of association with the Tepper School 
and Carnegie Mellon have 
been rewarding, both professionally and personally. 
We are excited to contribute 
toward and to be a part of 
the new Tepper Quadrangle, 
and we look forward to many 
more decades of being engaged with the university.
Bob Dammon, dean of 
the Tepper School of Business, said he was thankful 
for Kedia and Tayurs gift. 
In terms of business and 
entrepreneurship, Gunjan 
and Sridhar are highly accomplished professionals. 
In terms of education, they 
have been outstanding supporters of the school over 
the years, and we appreciate 
their commitment to the future of business education, 
Dammon said in a university 
press release. I feel privileged to have had Gunjan as 
a student in my class and to 
watch the success that she 
has earned throughout her 
career. Sridhar is a wonderful faculty colleague and 
a highly respected and accomplished researcher and 
entrepreneur. They are both 
an inspiration to me and the 
entire Tepper School community.
Kedia earned her MBA 
from Carnegie Mellon with 
distinction at the Tepper 
School in 1994. She currently serves as executive 
vice president of State Street 
Corporations Investment 
Services division. Previously, 
Kedia worked at the Bank of 
New York Mellon and McKinsey & Company, as well as 
at PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
Kedia is also on the Business 
Board of Advisers for the 
Tepper School.
Tayur has worked on the 
Tepper faculty since 1991 
and, in 2000, he founded 
SmartOps, a supply chain 
management company. He 
served as its CEO until 2012.
Special allocation: RaastaSpecial allocation: Mock Trial
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
73 / 50
SATURDAY
High / Low
68 / 44
SUNDAY
High / Low
66 / 48
TUESDAY
High / Low
61 / 41
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
56 / 37
THURSDAY
High / Low
71 / 49
Student Senate allocated 
$752 to Raasta. Junior information systems major Andrew Schwartz spoke about 
the unexpected cost that the 
funding was meant to cover; 
when attending a competition, the Raasta team had to 
?nd new hotel rooms after 
being displaced from their 
original hotel. 18 senators 
voted for the allocation, none 
voted against, and ?ve abstained.
Compiled by
NOL UM
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Senate allocated $1,465 to 
Mock Trial. The funding will 
compensate Mock Trial for 
a de?cit incurred by missing 
registration fees from teams 
who couldnt attend a Carnegie Mellon-hosted competition at the last minute due to 
weather dif?culties. 19 senators voted for the allocation, 
none voted against, and ?ve 
abstained.
Points of discussion
Senate spent the majority 
of its meeting discussing the 
issue of paying student government executive members. 
Senators brought up various 
points of discussion for and 
against the issue of including the line item in the slated 
budget. Senate concluded 
the discussion with a motion 
to send the JFC Proposal to 
junior statistics major and 
Student Body Vice President 
for Finance Jalen Poteat for 
revision and reexamination.
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Sigma Nu and Tri Delta hosted Peace, Love, and Tie-Dye last Friday on the College of Fine Arts Lawn. As part of the event, students could buy a 
white T-shirt to tie-dye or tie-dye their own items of clothing. 

---------------------------------------------------

make throughout the year.
Those in Senate against 
adding the honorarium to 
the budget brought up three 
points: the student government executives lack of accountability, the variability of 
each student government executives responsibilities, and 
the usability of the student 
activities fee to ?nance the 
honorariums.
The ?rst argument raised 
regarding accountability 
mentioned the dif?culty of 
removing of?cials once they 
are elected to of?ce. The last 
time Student Senate tried to 
remove the SBP from of?ce 
was in 2012, when the student 
government moved to impeach Jake Flittner (CIT 12) 
because he had ceased to perform his presidential duties. 
Although Flittner was impeached, he was not removed 
from of?ce.
Ronner said, In that case, 
even if he was impeached, 
he would still be getting paid 
money to do that position because he wasnt removed from 
of?ce. The people who we 
hire can be ?red very easily if 
someones not doing their job. 
Student government-elected 
of?cials do not have that sort 
of accountability; removing someone from of?ce is a 
lengthy process and rarely 
happens.
Its much harder to hold 
student government of?cials 
accountable if they arent doing their job, he continued.
Other senators against the 
inclusion of the line item argued that out of the four student government positions, 
SBVPF was the only position 
that should be ?nanced because his or her position requires the most work. A point 
was brought up in discussion 
about paying each member 
of the executive committee 
equally.
Theres another issue 
about weighing each member 
of student executive in monetary values. If these positions are so time consuming, 
instead of paying somebody 
for their time, perhaps the job 
needs to make it restructured 
so that it is not so time-consuming, Ronner said.
Sophomore international 
relations and politics and 
French and Francophone 
studies double major Ariel 
Lee said, I dont think student government executives 
should be paid positions because the work each person 
does in those positions is not 
quanti?able  one person 
can do more work but see less 
results in a given term. I think 
the people who really do care 
about our school and want to 
enact change will be people 
who do not need a monetary 
incentive to do so.
One of the biggest arguments against ?nancing the 
positions was that the honorariums would come straight 
out of the student activities 
fee. At $1,000 per semester per 
senator, the JFC would be using $8,000 of student ?nances 
to give the student government executives honorariums.
Ronner said, Senate chose 
to fund the Arts Pass program 
last year, but at $5,000 less 
than what they asked for. It 
seems contradictory to not 
fund ?ve grand to a program 
that bene?ts all students and 
then turn around and pay 
eight grand to fund a pool of 
four people. Is paying student 
executives a reasonable thing 
to do with student activities 
money?
Poteat said, I think that in 
the grand scheme of things, if 
the JFCs task is to effectively 
allocate student activity fees 
as well as possible, giving 
$2,000 to each student body 
[executive]  whose role it is 
to keep the student body happy and maintain the relationship between the students and 
the administration  is de?-
nitely worth it. In the grand 
scheme of things, the $8,000 
is only a small dip into the 
bucket of money that the JFC 
has to allocate.
Those who had mixed feelings about the issue thought 
that more time was needed 
in order to promote transparency among the student body, 
which is currently uneducated 
on the issue.
Junior biological sciences 
major and SBVP-elect Shalini 
Ray said, This topic, like any 
other major change, has many 
reasonable pros and cons to 
it. It was a decision made by 
the JFC and VPF to put in the 
proposed budget for next year, 
but there is still a long way 
to go and much more to discuss before anything gets approved or denied by student 
government.
In an email sent to members of Senates Communications Committee, third-year 
architecture major and French 
and Francophone studies double major Travis Rozich wrote, 
I think the promotion of general awareness is of greater 
priority than a campaign 
whose goal is to take advantage of an inherent bias and 
skew opinions in our favor. Despite what Senate may think 
(which, though it was largely 
against the proposal, was still 
divided on the issue and by no 
means unanimous), in my responsibility our opinion [sic] 
as the Communications Committee is to ensure the proper 
information is understood 
by the students, and to open 
up an avenue for dialogue so 
that student government as a 
whole can listen to what their 
constituents believe.
Many senators felt that 
the issue of whether or not 
to give an honorarium to student government executives 
should be polled via a student 
referendum.
This is not the ?rst time 
student government has tried 
to pass this sort of line item in 
the budget. 
In 2010, a referendum to 
pay student executive members was attempted, but it 
did not pass. In that poll from 
2010, 473 students supported 
the line item, 1,029 did not 
support it, and 509 did not respond to the poll.
Personally, I am very opposed to paying student government executives, Ronner 
said. Restructuring the roles 
rather than paying people to 
do them makes more sense.
I also think that in terms 
of looking at the function of 
each role, it makes a lot more 
sense to pay the VPF and VPO, 
rather than the SBP and SBVP 
because they have more nebulous roles in executive. I certainly understand that there 
are valid reasons for paying 
exec but I think it needs to be 
done in a way in which the student body understands and is 
okay with, he continued.
At the joint JFC rati?cation 
meeting this Thursday, the 
budget including the line item 
which grants honorarium to 
student government executives will be up for approval by 
the GSA, Student Senate, and 
the JFC.
Poteat, although in favor of 
the honorarium, said he will 
not push the issue if it is clear 
that it will not be approved. 
I am in no way going to try 
to force this to pass if I know 
its not, Poteat said. The Senate meeting was insightful because it let me know how Senate felt about giving student 
execs honorarium. If we are 
going to approach this again, 
we need to lay out all the different options and ?esh out all 
the questions, such as are we 
against paying student execs 
in general, getting paid the 
same amount, getting paid using the student activities fee?
As VPF, my overall purpose is to make sure the budget gets slated, so I dont want 
this to be the issue holding it 
back, he added. Its not fair 
for other organizations not to 
get their budgets through just 
for the sake of me and other 
student execs not getting an 
honorarium, so I am by all 
means ready to let it go if it 
gets to that point.
Student Senate will be 
making greater efforts to 
communicate with the student body about this issue, 
if brought up again in the future. If Senate and the GSA 
vote to remove the line item 
this Thursday at the joint rati?cation meeting, the issue will 
be closed for this ?scal year. 
If they do not vote to remove 
the line item, the issue will be 
discussed again and voted on, 
potentially separately from 
the existing budget.
April 21, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Senate debates whether to pay student government executives
Michelle Wan/Art Editor
Innovation Institute (NAMII) 
in Youngstown, Ohio, of which 
Carnegie Mellon is a member.
Gary saw an opportunity 
for Carnegie Mellon engineering researchers and was proactive in organizing and linking our researchers with that 
opportunity, Garrett said. 
As our new vice president for 
research, Dr. Jahanian will 
connect researchers across 
the university with national 
and international research 
opportunities.
Carnegie Mellon is not the 
?rst university to recognize 
the bene?ts of a high-ranking 
research of?cial. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) currently has a vice 
president of research; Harvard 
University has a vice provost of 
research; and Princeton University has a dean of research. 
The mission statements for 
these of?ces often include the 
promotion of interdisciplinary 
work and advocacy on behalf 
of the universitys researchers.
Dan Siewiorek, Buhl University professor of electrical 
and computer engineering 
and computer science, has 
known Jahanian for over 20 
years and believes Jahanian 
will address unmet needs 
within Carnegie Mellon. In 
an interview, Siewiorek noted that Carnegie Mellon has 
lagged behind some peer institutions in raising funds for 
large research endeavors. 
For example, in the ?eld 
of interdisciplinary energy 
research, Carnegie Mellons Scott Institute has 
raised roughly $50 million 
while MITs Energy Initiative has raised more than 
$500 million. That kind of 
thing takes high-level coordination, Sieworiek said. People lower in the hierarchy are 
focused on funding students 
and smaller projects.
Sieworiek explained that 
while working for the National 
Science Foundation, Jahanian 
orchestrated joint projects between the National Science 
Foundation and the National 
Institutes of Health. That 
showed his ability to bring 
together groups in Washington, Sieworiek said. Given 
that Carnegie Mellon has 
many health-related technologies, the question according 
to Siewiorek is how can we 
[Carnegie Mellon] parlay that 
into something bigger?
In addition to his governmental and entrepreneurial 
activity, Jahanian is currently 
the Edward S. Davidson collegiate professor of electrical 
engineering and computer 
science at the University of 
Michigan; he has been on 
leave since 2011 to serve at the 
National Science Foundation.
Farnam Jahanian to become CMUs vice president of research
RESEARCH, from A1
PAYMENT, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 21, 2014
search has largely focused on 
health care economics, and 
he has sat on the Board on 
Health Promotion and Disease Prevention of the Institute of Medicine.
When he announced Kamlets departure, University President Subra Suresh 
wrote that Kamlet, has been 
a consummate university citizen in taking on numerous 
assignments in addition to 
his primary role as the chief 
academic of?cer, adding, I 
am enormously grateful to 
him for agreeing to extend 
his long and devoted service 
to the university during the 
past year in order to ensure a 
smooth transition of leadership during my ?rst year as 
president.
Kamlet plans to take a sabbatical after his departure and 
then return to the university 
as a faculty member.
Regarding ?nding a longterm replacement for these 
positions, Suresh said in his 
announcement, I will be developing the plans for a national search to identify academic leaders as we examine 
the roles and responsibilities 
of the provost and executive 
vice president. As is common 
practice during leadership 
transitions, we will also have 
an opportunity to assess the 
evolution of the university 
over the past decade or more 
in light of the current opportunities and challenges faced 
by the global CMU community. We will also evaluate various internal and external factors in?uencing the university 
and higher education.
Nathan Urban, the Dr. 
Frederick A. Schwertz distinguished professor of life sciences, and head of the department of biological sciences, 
will serve as interim provost. 
According to Carnegie Mellons website, the provost is 
the chief academic of?cer of 
the institution whose job is 
to be committed to advancing the universitys academic 
agenda and works closely 
with deans and department 
heads, research centers and 
institutes to ensure the university is implementing programs that foster the academic vision and mission of the 
organization.
Urban joined the university as a faculty member 
in 2002 and, in 2005, was 
named one of the top 50 leaders in science and technology 
by Scienti?c American.
Urban said via email, It is 
a great honor to be selected by 
President Suresh for this position. The rise in CMUs reputation in research and education has been one of the great 
success stories in higher education in the last few decades. 
This rise has been achieved 
largely because of the incredible energy and creativity of 
CMUs faculty and students. 
He continued, As the landscape of higher education in 
the US and across the globe 
changes, I hope that even in 
this interim role, I can contribute to creating the conditions that allow CMUs faculty 
and students to achieve even 
more in the years to come.
Current dean of Dietrich 
College John Lehoczky is 
stepping up as interim executive vice president. 
Lehoczky has served as 
head of the statistics department and helped lead the Dietrich Colleges Humanities 
Initiative. He is also a member 
and fellow of numerous mathematics and statistics associations.
Lehoczky said he was 
stunned when he learned 
of his appointment to the position and was happy to be 
joining a team thats trying to 
lead the university. Lehoczky 
aims to work with Carnegie 
Mellons leadership during his 
time in this position to keep 
the university on the meteoric 
path its on.
Lehoczky also spoke well 
of Kamlet, saying, I would 
want the campus to know 
how outstanding Mark Kamlet was in these roles, adding, hes been an outstanding 
force in the development of 
this university.
TRANSITIONS, from A1
computer science Afnan Fahim said I thought it was 
awesome. It was nice to 
see [Chadderton] put it all 
together. Nice to see that 
culmination.
MacGillivray took a slightly different approach to the 
topic of success. She opened 
her presentation with various 
pieces of advice shed received 
in her life, such as, you learn 
the most from your friends, 
which one of her friends told 
her, and always undercook 
your brownies, which her 
mother told her.
MacGillivray also discussed her academic troubles 
at the inception of her career 
here at Carnegie Mellon. She 
struggled, but thought that 
her dif?culties meant that 
she should be at a different 
school. She described taking a 
particularly dif?cult calculus 
exam, and then crying after 
the test. I thought I didnt belong here because I couldnt 
ace that calc exam, MacGillivray said.
Unfortunately, this became a circuitous problem. 
As a former mechanical engineering major, MacGillivray was unhappy with her 
coursework. She said I didnt 
like what I was studying, so 
I didnt work very hard, so I 
didnt do well, which meant 
I didnt like what I was studying. Ultimately, MacGillivray 
changed her major to biology 
and psychology, with a minor 
in biomedical engineering, 
and became much happier 
and more successful in her 
classes.
The next point in MacGillivrays lecture was a more scienti?c examination of what 
success is. She described a 
process of looking at brain 
scans and reading a wide variety of studies on what happens in the brain when people 
feel successful. She came to 
the conclusion that success 
begets success  as the feeling of success makes one part 
of the brain light up, these 
chemical signals can travel to 
different parts of the brain, 
which continues the cycle.
MacGillivray emphasized that 
an important part of feeling 
successful is checking on ones 
endeavors more frequently. 
The New Year only comes 
once a year, and for many 
people, their resolutions fall 
by the wayside by February. 
GPAs, MacGillivray said, are 
slightly better, because those 
checks happen at the end of 
a semester, but are still too infrequent. Were checking after ... the numbers have been 
set in stone, MacGillivray 
said.
MacGillivray instead urged 
her audience to break success 
down into more manageable 
sizes. I propose we look at success in smaller pieces, she said.
MacGillivray also stressed 
the importance of changing 
tactics that are not effective. 
If you havent been successful once, you cant just try 
harder.
The audience remained 
engaged throughout both 
speeches, and their reactions 
were generally positive. 
Fourth-year architecture 
major Katy Marino said, I really liked how both of them 
were de?ning success.... It 
was great to see them speaking in a formal setting. They 
were both really well done, 
and well organized.
Sophomore electrical and 
computer engineering and 
engineering and public policy 
double major Evan Wineland 
said, I thought it was really 
insightful. Vaasavi saw a need 
for something on campus, and 
she took charge of the entire 
process. It was cool hearing 
from seniors in this capacity, and its a conversation we 
dont have quite enough.
Seniors share CMU experiences
LECTURES, from A1Moore to serve as Dean of SCS
Michelle Wan/Art Editor
Senior biological sciences and psychology major Lindsay MacGillivray 
explained her de?nition of success in The First Lectures on Thursday. 
Michelle Wan/Art Editor
Senior civil and environmental engineering and engineering and public 
policy double major Colin Chadderton had audience members play 
COLIN, a twist on BINGO. 
Michelle Wan/Art Editor
Chadderton asked the winners of COLIN questions and then offered to take them to their favorite meal.
Jason Chen/Assistant Photo Editor 
Current Dean of Dietrich College John Lehoczky will serve as the interim 
executive vice president after Kamlet steps down.

---------------------------------------------------

April 21, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
ROHAN VARMA
Assistant SciTech Editor
The United States began developing and using 
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles 
(UAVs) in the early 1900s. 
They have been used to spy 
on other countries, attack 
enemy bases, and even track 
the movement of our forces in 
battle. 
Sometimes, it seems  
especially because of recent 
National Security Agency 
(NSA) spying scandals  that 
we will soon see top-secret 
government drones ?ying 
over us to monitor our lives. 
However, it turns out that the 
?rst drones that will be ?ying 
above our heads wont be spying on our lives; they will be 
bringing us faster Internet.
In the last few years, 
Google and Facebook have 
been neck-and-neck in a race 
to provide fast, reliable Internet to people across the 
world. In pursuit of this goal, 
both companies are looking to 
develop Internet drones that 
will ?y over the world and 
provide Internet access where 
ever they go. Instead of beginning the development process 
from scratch, both companies have recently purchased 
drone companies; Google 
bought Titan Aerospace and 
Facebook bought Ascenta.
The drones themselves 
utilize technology that give 
them both sophistication and 
longevity. According to Motherboard, the wingspan of each 
drone is about 50 feet, and all 
50 feet are covered with solar panels. These solar panels 
provide power to the drone 
and allow them to remain 
?ying in the air for up to ?ve 
years at a time. This ability 
makes them the ideal Internet 
provider because they can remain in the air for great periods of time without having to 
be serviced or closely monitored.
These drones will ?y at altitudes in the atmosphere of 
60,00070,000 feet, making 
them pseudo-satellites. Not 
only does this height allow 
them to reach a broad range 
of locations at once, but it also 
puts them outside the authority of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The FAA 
has authority over all aircrafts 
?ying at a range below 60,000 
feet. By ?ying above this 
height, Google and Facebook 
will not be under the jurisdiction of the FAA and will have a 
lot more ?exibility in terms of 
what they are able to do with 
their planes.
While ?ying above the 
Earth, these drones will 
provide Internet users with 
blazing fast Internet speeds 
that dwarf current speeds 
provided through landlines. 
According to PolicyMic, the 
average Internet speed in the 
United States is currently 8.5 
megabytes per second, and 
Ephreta, Washington is the 
city with the fastest connection at an averge of 95 megabytes per second. With that in 
mind, it is astonishing that the 
drones are projected to provide a speed of 1 gigabyte per 
second (1 gigabyte is 1,000 
megabytes).
One potential method 
of transmission that Facebooks Connectivity Lab is 
experimenting with is a new 
technology called Free Space 
Optics. This technology is essentially a laser that transmits energy through infrared 
light. While this technology is 
extremely effective at transmitting information, it has its 
drawbacks. For example, it 
requires a direct line of sight. 
Creating this line of sight is 
the equivalent of trying to hit 
a dime from 10 miles away. 
Despite this challenge, Mark 
Zuckerburg, founder and CEO 
of Facebook, believes that his 
company will have an initial 
prototype of the system up 
and running soon.
In addition to improving 
Internet connections, Google 
is looking to use the drones 
to enhance its current lineup of services. Currently, 
Global Positioning Systems 
(GPS) and weather services 
provided by Google are enabled using satellites in space 
that do not belong to Google. 
With drones, Google will be 
able to completely control the 
machines collecting the information and will be able to 
provide live updates on things 
like weather and traf?c. Additionally, the information will 
be more accurate and up-todate because the drones will 
be closer to Earth.
While both companies are 
looking to monetize the skies 
with this new technology, the 
result of their work has very 
philanthropic bene?ts. Of the 
7 billion people on this planet, 
only 39 percent of the world 
population uses the Internet, 
according to the International 
Telecommunications Union. 
With drones in the air, this 
number could drastically increase. 
According to TechCrunch, 
in a recent speech, Zuckerburg cited a study from Deloitte that indicated that increased Internet usage could 
generate 140 million new jobs 
and lift 160 million people out 
of poverty in the United States 
alone. Not only does it connect people to their friends 
and families, but it is a vital 
resource that is economically 
empowering. The Internet 
allows people to ?nd jobs, 
become entrepreneurs, and 
even have a bigger voice in 
their community.
If you need any more convincing on the importance of 
these drones, ask yourself: 
what would you do without 
the Internet?
Dangerous Heartbleed bug may bleed your online accounts
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Assistant Copy Manager
Its likely that you have 
heard of the Heartbleed 
bug, which recently made 
headlines in the technology 
community. 
Although the bug began 
as a simple code mistake that 
occurred two years ago, its 
consequences have propagated across the Internet and 
have only recently been independently discovered by Neel 
Mehta of Google Security and 
a team of security engineers 
at Codenomicon, according to 
heartbleedbug.com. 
The bug had such farreaching consequences that a 
number of private and public 
companies hurriedly deployed 
the bug patch, and sent their 
customers emails urging them 
to change their passwords because their accounts may have 
been compromised. The campus community also received 
an email from Of?cial Communications, informing them 
that Computing Services was 
looking into the issue and that 
Andrew passwords did not 
need to be changed because 
the universitys web login at 
login.cmu.edu was not affected 
by the bug.
The Heartbleed bug is 
a serious vulnerability in 
OpenSSL, a library that is 
widely used to encrypt private data, such as passwords 
and ?nancial information, 
that is protected by the Transport Layer Security (TLS) and 
Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) 
cryptographic protocols. This 
bug allows hackers to steal 
protected information without leaving a trace, and, thus, 
threatens security and privacy 
over the Internet.
The Heartbleed bug takes 
advantage of the heartbeat option in the SSL protocol, which 
is a way for a client computer (e.g. your computer) to 
check if the connection to the 
server is still at the other side 
of the connection, because 
sometimes the connection is 
dropped if a computer is inactive for too long. The client 
computer sends the server 
a message containing three 
things: a request for con?rmation, a randomly chosen word, 
and the number of letters in 
that word. 
The server sends back 
a message containing the 
same word, con?rming that 
it is still on the other side of 
the connection. 
The following slightly simpli?ed conversation, from 
xkcd.com, highlights how the 
heartbeat operation works:
Client: Server, are you still 
there? If so, reply POTATO (6 
letters).
Server: POTATO
The Heartbleed bug lies in 
the fact that the server does 
not check that the word it has 
been asked to repeat is of the 
same length as the number 
speci?ed by the user. For example, in the above exchange, 
the computer didnt check that 
the word POTATO is actually 
6 letters long and trusted that 
the user provided the correct 
information. A malicious user 
can provide a large number 
and then get access to private 
information about other users, 
which is stored in the server 
state. The following is another 
simpli?ed conversation, this 
time a malicious one, from 
xkcd.com:
Client: Server, are you still 
there? If so, reply HAT 
(500 letters).
Server: HAT. Lucas requests 
the missing connections 
page. Eve (administrator) 
wants to set the servers master key to 14835038534 ..
As you can see, the malicious user now knows the 
master key for the server and 
can exploit that information. 
The seriousness of the vulnerability lies in the fact that the 
malicious user can request as 
many as 64,000 characters 
with each message and can 
repeatedly send these messages, getting different pieces 
of information each time, 
as the servers internal state 
keeps varying depending on 
the requests that it receives. 
This type of attack leaves no 
trace of malicious activity and 
is hence hard to detect.
Since a lot of major websites use OpenSSL to encrypt 
their data, the Heartbleed bug 
has made many accounts vulnerable. A survey conducted 
by W3Techs showed that 81 
percent of websites run on 
web server programs Apache 
and Nginx, both of which use 
OpenSSL. A new version of 
OpenSSL, with the necessary 
bug ?x, has been released. 
Most software vendors have 
promptly updated their systems to the new version, but 
a few have yet to do so. However, despite the ?x, if hackers 
were aware of the bug before 
the ?x, they may have obtained a lot of information and 
may be able to use this information to their advantage.
The silver lining is that you 
can take steps to minimize 
the chances of your online accounts being hacked. 
Changing your password 
once the website has implemented the ?x will secure 
your account because hackers 
will only have the old information and, thanks to the ?x, can 
no longer get your updated 
password. If you receive an 
email from any service provider asking you to change a 
password, you should do that 
as soon as possible. According 
to mashable.com, you should 
change passwords for your 
Google, Facebook, Instagram, 
Tumblr, Net?ix, Venmo, Dropbox, and Github accounts, 
among others, because they 
were vulnerable to the Heartbleed bug when it was detected, and have now patched 
their systems. 
It may be a good idea to 
change passwords for your 
other online accounts as well, 
just to be sure that all your accounts are secure.
Eunice Oh/Assistant Art Editor
ALINE NARODITSKY
Staffwriter
Until recently, the topic 
of cryonics  freezing ones 
body to be thawed years into 
the future, presumably when 
medicine is more advanced 
 was a mythical discussion. 
However, today, it is becoming a reality. According to the 
Alcor Life Extension Foundation, the largest cryonics services provider in the world, 
approximately 270 people 
have undergone cryopreservation procedures since the 
idea was ?rst introduced in 
1962. Although still incredibly controversial, cryonics 
is no longer theoretical; it is 
a science with potential consequences that could weigh 
heavily in the upcoming 
years.
The process of freezing 
human ?esh causes a variety 
of problems. Michio Kaku, 
the Henry Semat professor 
of theoretical physics at the 
City College of New York, argued in a Big Think video that 
freezing the water inside cells 
will cause the cells to expand, 
eventually causing them to 
burst. 
Therefore, reviving a person from the frozen state is 
not only ethically questionable; it may be altogether impossible, Kaku said. He also 
argued that cryonics is merely 
a deception for the wealthy. 
If only those who can afford 
to be frozen have a chance at 
survival in the future, how 
will that affect future society?
Max More, CEO of Alcor 
Life Extension Foundation, 
directly responded to Kakus 
claims in a publicized Alcor 
video. First, he explained that 
people can make cryonics 
scienti?cally possible if they 
freeze water on the outside 
of the cells, rather than on 
the inside. He then went on 
to say that people can pay for 
the process with a policy similar to life insurance, which 
would not be signi?cantly 
more expensive than a typical 
life insurance plan. More even 
invited Kaku to visit the cryonics labs and see for himself.
One of the main debates 
surrounding cryonics is timing. Currently, it is legal only 
to freeze a body after the person has been declared dead 
by medics. Because freezing 
a person who is still alive will 
cause his or her imminent 
death, freezing live people is 
considered assisted suicide 
and is not permitted under 
United States law. However, it 
is imperative that the person 
be frozen as quickly as possible; once the deceased is pronounced brain dead, there is 
no further use in freezing the 
body, as that person would 
not be able to be revived again 
in the future.
On the other hand, it may 
be senseless to wait until 
someone is pronounced legally dead. By that time, it could 
be too late. If cures for illnesses, such as cancer are discovered, it is unlikely they will 
work quickly enough to help a 
person who was already near 
death. However, if frozen at 
an earlier time, that person 
may stand a chance.
The other part of the debate assumes that cryonics 
will be successful and focuses on the future of men and 
women who will be thawed. 
An important question to ask 
is the one of guarantee: Who 
will guarantee that the people 
who have undergone cryonics will then be defrosted at 
some point in the future? 
Supposing even that they are 
able to be saved, what kind of 
world will they experience? 
Many years into the future, 
they will not have family they 
know and it is likely that any 
money they once had will be 
completely devalued. Will the 
government be responsible 
for taking care of them?
Cryonics does not promise 
immortality now, but it may 
be possible to extend life permanently in the future. In that 
situation, will overpopulation 
become a more relevant question? Will people be able to 
sustain this larger population? Cryonics is a topic that 
will likely remain controversial for the coming decades.
Student Pugwash is a nonadvocacy, educational organization that discusses the implications of science. This article is 
a summary of their discussion 
on the ethics of cryonics.
HOW THINGS WORKGoogle and Facebook race to provide faster Internet
PUGWASH COLUMNCryonics technology cannot yet unfreeze frozen people
Eunice Oh/Assistant Art Editor
Maegha Singh/Junior Staff Artist

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 21, 2014
Epigenetic patterns found in tumors
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Staffwriter
Scientists are quickly 
learning that the hardwired 
code within the arrangement 
of DNA bases does not fully 
determine the fate of an individual organism. This current 
understanding is built on the 
idea of epigenetics  that 
DNA expression can vary between individuals and is not 
caused by speci?c changes to 
the DNA sequence itself.
Hctor Corrada Bravo, 
an assistant professor at the 
University of Maryland Institute for Advanced Computer 
Studies and Center for Bioinformatics and Computational 
Biology, gave a seminar at 
Carnegie Mellon last Friday, 
sharing his teams research exploring the epigenome  a record of the chemical changes 
to DNA and histone proteins 
 of tumor cells for detectable patterns.
Every cell in an organism 
is a descendant of the same 
original stem cell and, thus, 
all contain exactly the same 
code of DNA. The cells use 
the DNA to construct the necessary proteins for function. 
However, in each type of cell, 
a unique group of all the possible proteins will be made in 
that cell that determines the 
cells speci?c function. Bravo 
explained that his teams goal 
is to look at the epigenome of 
tumor cells and identify patterns or speci?c regions of the 
DNA that are uniquely active 
in the cancer cells.
The challenge of studying 
the epigenome is that there 
are no speci?c changes in the 
DNA sequence that identify 
that a gene is activated at any 
given time. Bravos team became the ?rst group to utilize whole genome bi-sul?te 
sequencing to help identify 
these activated genes in the 
genome of cancer cells.
The technique is based on 
the idea of DNA methylation, 
the binding of methyl groups 
to cytosine bases that commonly follow guanine bases 
within the DNA code. Simply 
put, high methylation has 
been hypothesized to contribute to a higher silencing of 
genes so fewer genes are expressed as proteins.
When the DNA is treated 
with bi-sul?te, cytosine bases 
that are not methylated are 
converted to uracil, another 
sugar base that is only found 
in RNA molecules. Cytosine 
that is bound to a methyl 
group remains cytosine. This 
DNA can then be sequenced 
and the cytosine bases in the 
DNA that remain are the ones 
that have been methylated.
For each cytosine site in 
the DNA, Bravos team calculated the probability that the 
site was methylated in cancer 
cells. This analysis helped his 
team observe patterns in the 
genome to identify more active genes in the cancer cells.
First, in their analysis with 
colon cancer, the team initially found that the genes that 
were less methylated were hyper-variably expressed, meaning their expression exceeded 
that of a normal cell.
Bravo claimed, Instability 
at the DNA methylation level 
leads to instability at the gene 
expression level.
The researchers further 
explored the areas of the 
genome that were hypervariably expressed and saw 
a large number of potential 
genes that have been linked 
to cancer in other research. 
Cancer cells are cells that are 
experiencing an unregulated 
system of growth. There are 
numerous proteins that, if 
over-expressed in the cell, 
could cause the cell to grow 
at much higher rates, causing 
cancer.
After seeing this correlation with their data, Bravo 
and his team expanded their 
research and explored other 
cancers, such as lung, breast, 
and thyroid cancer. Their results showed that all the tumor types lose methylation in 
many cancer-speci?c genes.
Furthermore, Bravo explained their curiosity in 
whether methylation levels 
varied in different stages of 
tumors. Once again, their 
results proved that cancers 
which were further along 
and those capable of metastasis  the ability to spread 
in the body  had lower levels of methylation in speci?c 
regions.
Bravo explained that the 
repeated correlation that he 
and his team saw led them to 
believe that there was something deeper at play. They 
felt that these patterns should 
be explored further in depth.
Currently, the team is looking at cancer cell populations 
and comparing the epigenetic 
expression among the different cells in the population. 
They are actively working on 
a complex algorithm that generates a directed graph of all 
the possible methylated sites 
in the genome.
The algorithm Bravo and 
his team developed uses the 
graph to ?nd the minimum 
cost path from the start to the 
end. In doing so, it identi?es 
patterns in the genomic data, 
which can be extremely useful for more ef?cient cancer 
detection. 
More importantly, it will 
lead to a deeper understanding of the biological roots 
behind the causes of cancer. 
Identifying these hyper-variable genes will contribute to 
better gene therapy and drug 
development.
Collaborators of Bravos 
work include Winston Timp, 
assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Johns 
Hopkins University (JHU); 
Andrew Feinberg, director of 
the Center for Epigenetics at 
JHU; and Rafael Irizarry of 
the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute at Harvard University.
Courtesy of Hector Corrada Bravo
Hctor Corrada Bravo spoke at a computational biology seminar at Carnegie Mellon last Friday.
Autism detection is quicker, easier
A team from the Childrens 
National Health System, 
along with other researchers, 
have discovered that head 
circumference and head tilting re?ex can identify autism 
spectrum disorders (ASD) in 
children between nine and 12 
months old.
Previously, there has been 
no form of screening for children this young. Traditionally, ASD is identi?ed in children between two and four 
years of age through the use 
of the M-CHAT questionnaire 
that must be completed by 
parents. 
The new screening technique gives physicians a 
quick, easy way to determine 
which infants are at risk of 
developing ASD, which can 
lead to quicker treatment of 
the disease.
Source: Science Daily
Nanoparticles to deliver more drugs
Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, including assistant professor of chemistry Jeremiah 
Johnson, have developed 
new methods for building 
nanoparticles so that they 
can deliver more drugs.
Previously, building a 
nanoparticle involved ?rst 
designing the carrier particle and then attaching the 
drugs to be delivered. Since 
one drug could be integrated inside of the particle and 
another drug could be attached to the outside, these 
nanoparticles were only capable of delivering up to two 
drugs. Johnsons method involves the design of building 
blocks that already contain 
drugs.
Source: Science Daily
Rat oesophagi are transplanted
Researchers at Karolinska 
Institutet in Sweden along 
with Paolo Macchiarini, the 
director of the Advanced 
Center for Translational 
Regenerative Medicine at 
Karolinska Institutet, have 
developed a new method for 
transplanting oesophagi.
The team created the regenerated oesophagi by removing all the cells from the 
oesophagi of rats and leaving the scaffolding, which 
encompasses structure and 
chemical properties. Bone 
marrow cells were then 
added to the scaffolding and 
within three weeks were observed to adhere to the scaffold and show organ-speci?c 
characteristics. These tissues 
were used to replace segments of the esophagus in 
rats. 
Source: Science Daily
New moon forming around Saturn
New studies led by Carl 
Murray of Queen Mary University of London suggest 
that a new moon might be 
forming around Saturn. Images taken by NASAs Cassini 
spacecraft on April 15, 2013 
show an arc around the outside edge of Saturns rings 
that is 20 percent brighter 
than surrounding matter.
Scientists now believe the 
arc is a mass of ice, at most 
half a mile wide, that could be 
a new moon. The researchers 
named the mass Peggy and 
plan to study it in more detail 
in 2016 when Cassini is closer 
to the potential moon.
Source: The Huf?ngton Post
Compiled By
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
SCITECH BRIEFS

---------------------------------------------------

April 21, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A7
Dashboard helps workers understand their electricity use
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
One of the bene?ts of living on campus or through 
Carnegie Mellon housing is 
that you never have to worry 
about your electricity bill. Unfortunately, you are probably 
unaware of how much energy 
youre using and may be unknowingly wasting a lot of 
energy. Ray Yun, a Ph.D. candidate in the computational 
design program in the School 
of Architecture, has developed 
an Intelligent Dashboard that 
allows employees to see how 
much energy they use at work 
in hopes that they will consequently reduce their energy 
use.
The members of Yuns 
team include Vivian Loftness, 
a current architecture professor and former head of the 
School of Architecture; Azizan 
Aziz, Bertrand Lasternas, and 
Chenlu Zhang, researchers in 
the School of Architectures 
Center for Building Performance & Diagnostics; Peter 
Scupelli, assistant professor in 
the School of Design; and Yunjeong Mo and Jie Zhao, graduate students in the School of 
Architecture. 
Yun emphasized that many 
projects in the Center for 
Building Performance & Technology are a collaboration between individuals from many 
different disciplines, such as 
engineering, computer science, and human-computer interaction. The group is funded 
by the U.S. Department of Energys Energy-Ef?cient Buildings Hub.
The motivation of this 
project is that typical of?ce 
workers dont get the electricity bill, so they dont know how 
much energy they consume at 
work, said Yun. They also 
dont pay the electricity bill, 
so they have no incentive to 
put effort into saving energy 
at work. The research team 
wanted to explore if there was 
an effective way to not only 
help employees understand 
how much energy they use at 
work, but also to help them 
manage their consumption at 
work in a way that can bene?t 
the environment.
The Intelligent Dashboard 
is an online application that 
is used with a meter manufactured by Plugwise that measures electricity usage, as well 
as allows for remote control 
of the electricity. The main 
features of the dashboard 
are a graphical representation of the real-time usage of 
each of your electrical devices 
(such as laptops, monitors, 
and phones), a color-coded 
rating of the effectiveness of 
your electricity usage for each 
device, and recommendations 
for how to reduce your electricity usage based on your 
current habits. There are also 
on-off switches in the application that allow users to control 
their devices remotely. So if 
you are at home and you realize that you forgot to turn off 
your light at work, you can still 
control it remotely, said Yun.
There is also a calendar feature that allows the user to tell 
the system when to turn speci?c devices on and off. The 
feature gives you a calendar, 
and you can make a weekly 
schedule on it. Based on this 
schedule, the system will turn 
devices on and off, instead of 
the user doing it, explained 
Yun. Another feature allows 
the user to see the impact that 
their behavior will have on the 
scale of the entire company. 
It shows the costs and savings 
to the entire organization that 
would result if every employee 
in the building behaved in the 
same way as the user.
To see how the Intelligent 
Dashboard can impact the 
energy consumption within 
a real company, Yuns group 
conducted a study on 80 employees at a major Pittsburgh 
corporation that uses Plugwise 
products. The employees were 
divided into four groups, each 
of which had different versions of the dashboard. The 
?rst group doesnt have the 
control and the calendar; they 
only have the informational 
strategy. The second group 
doesnt have the calendar but 
they have everything else. The 
third group has everything, 
and the fourth group was not 
introduced to the dashboard, 
explained Yun.
Before the dashboard 
was introduced, the research 
group collected 14 weeks of 
baseline data to understand 
the typical electricity usage of 
the company. After that, there 
was a 13-week system deployment of the dashboard. There 
was then a third phase during 
which the dashboard was removed  this occurred about 
a month ago  to see if the 
savings which occurred during 
the dashboard implementation phase persisted.
They found that the group 
with only informational strategy showed a 13 percent decrease in energy usage, the 
group which only lacked the 
calendar showed a 25 percent 
decrease, and the group with 
the full dashboard had a 38 
percent decrease.
According to Yun, if every 
individual in the company behaved like those in the group 
with 38 percent energy savings, the company would save 
70 thousand dollars a year. 
And this is only for individual devices, said Yun. If we 
consider common devices like 
the printer or kitchen devices, 
there will be an even bigger 
impact.
Brooke Kuei/SciTech Editor
Architecture graduate student Ray Yun helped develop the Intelligent Dashboard.
Courtesy of Ray Yun
The Intelligent Dashboard includes various features that allow its users to understand how they can improve their electricity usage.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  April 21, 2014
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Office: University Center 314
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Pulitzer right for awarding Snowden coverage
Last week, the Pulitzer Prize 
Board announced the 2014 Pulitzer 
Prize winners. The Guardian and 
The Washington Post won the Public Service Award for their respective pieces on the National Security 
Agency (NSA)s massive surveillance 
programs on ordinary citizens.
The NSA scandal  especially Edward Snowden, the main informant 
in that scandal  is a topic of hot debate in the public forum right now. 
The Tartan commends the Pulitzer 
Prize Committee on its commitment 
to rewarding the augumentation of 
public knowledge, even when that 
expansion of understanding is politically inconvenient. 
While very few people are comfortable with the scope of the NSAs 
investigations, many decry Snowden 
as a traitor. In fact, Snowden was 
forced to ?ee the country or stand 
trial for leaking highly classi?ed information. 
According to ABC News, Peter 
King, (RN.Y.) said, To be rewarding illegal conduct, to be enabling 
a traitor like Snowden, to me is not 
something that should be rewarded 
with a Pulitzer Prize. In contrast, 
the administrator of the Pulitzer 
Prizes and professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of 
Journalism Sig Gissler said that the 
articles helped stimulate the very 
important discussion about the balance between privacy and security, 
and that discussion is still going on. 
While Snowdens actions were 
undeniably illegal, they may have 
been in the publics best interest. 
By commending The Guardian and 
The Washington Post for acting on 
the information Snowden disseminated, the Pulitzer Prize committee 
acknowledges that an act that began 
as a crime was a public service. 
The relationship between criminality and morality is often a complex one. The Pulitzer Prize committee refused to shy away from that 
tension and should be commended 
for that choice.
Indias new ruling advances trans recognition
Last week, Indias Supreme Court 
ruled to accept transgender individuals as a third gender, a massive step 
forward in gender recognition. Now 
transgendered people have the option to identify as this third gender, 
eliminating the traditional binary 
gender system still used by most developed nations. This ruling seems 
like a natural political progression 
for India, whose Election Commission ruled in 2009 that voters could 
register with other as their gender. 
In addition to India, Bangladesh and 
Nepal have also of?cially recognized 
a third gender, while nations such as 
the United States have not.
It is important to provide a third 
gender option other than the male 
or female identity. This binary decision forces transgender individuals to align themselves with one of 
two identities which they may not 
feel comfortable characterizing  
themselves as. 
Other nations should adopt this 
system based on the simple notion of 
inclusion. Forcing someone to adopt 
a label they feel does not describe 
them is an unfair constraint placed 
on members of a group, which, unfortunately are often subject to societal marginalization as it is. 
That being said, India must still 
revise various laws that are holding 
it back from universal acceptance of 
its citizens. In 2013, Indian courts 
reinstated a law, that had previously 
been struck down in 2009, criminalizing homosexual actions, meaning 
that homosexual acts currently are 
punishable by a 10-year prison sentence.
Indias Supreme Court has made 
an excellent step toward creating 
greater acceptance of transgender 
people within their nation. It can 
only be hoped that many other nations will follow in the near future. 
However, there is still room for improvement in accepting different 
kinds of people, and promoting tolerance should be an important consideration for all nations.
Election of Modi is threat to Indias large democracy
MOHAMMED BURNY
Junior Staffwriter
India, the worlds largest democracy, is at the polls right now.
The sheer size of Indias democracy is mindboggling. Its national 
election, held every ?ve years, has 
nine phases and occurs over ?ve 
weeks. It will be the largest election 
in the history of the world, according to bloomberg.com. Nearly 815 
million Indians are eligible to vote 
in this election, a number equal to 
the combined populations of America and the European Union. By 
May 16, when election results are 
announced, India will have spent 
roughly $5 billion on this election, 
according to TIME magazine, second only to the $7 billion Americans spent on the 2012 presidential  
election.
Indias National Congress party 
has wielded political power since 
it gained independence from Great 
Britain in 1947. But deepening concern about rising prices and rampant 
political corruption has led Indian 
voters to look twice at the Bharatiya 
Janata Party (BJP) instead. In an era 
of tepid economic growth, the rightwing BJP is running its candidates 
on a savvy pro-business campaign. 
But this partys ideological grounding in Hindu nationalism  emphasized by the checkered political past 
of Narendra Modi, its candidate for 
prime minister of India  demands 
our scrutiny.
Pre-election polls indicate that 
Modi will likely become Indias next 
prime minister. He has served as 
chief minister of Gujarat since 2001. 
Gujarat, unlike other Indian states, 
boasted a brisk 10 percent annual 
growth rate during these years. Today, it is one of the richest states in 
India. Many of its residents credit 
Modis pro-business economic policies for their prosperity. They eagerly anticipate his election to the 
prime ministership of India so that 
all of India may enjoy such economic growth.
However, Modis tenure as chief 
minister of Gujarat is not without 
blemish. On February 27, 2002, a 
train carrying several hundred passengers burned near Godhra, in Gujarat. Fifty-eight passengers, mostly 
Hindu pilgrims and many of them 
women and children, died in the 
?re. Rumors that Muslim arsonists 
were responsible for this accident 
triggered a rash of anti-Muslim 
violence throughout Gujarat. The 
Indian government estimated that 
800 Muslims were killed in the violence. Unof?cial ?gures estimate the 
number of Muslims killed was closer 
to 2,000.
I ask the reader to excuse me for 
cataloging some of these atrocities, 
but it is morally incumbent upon 
us to consider them now, when 
the worlds largest democracy is 
about to elect Modi to its highest 
political of?ce. In the days following the burning of the train in Gujarat, Muslim children were forced 
to drink gasoline and then set on 
?re. Muslim infants were speared, 
held aloft, and thrown into bon?res. Muslim women and girls were 
gang-raped. The bellies of pregnant 
Muslim women were slit open and 
their fetuses thrown into the streets. 
Hindu mobs barricaded and ?ooded 
Muslim homes and electrocuted the 
families inside. 
While this violence was convulsing Gujarat, Modi was, at best, doing nothing to stop it. Less charitable critics, such as Human Rights 
Watch, have asserted that Gujarats 
police of?cers participated in this 
carnage.
Arundhati Roy, Indias leading 
woman of letters and a ?erce critic 
of its capitalistic policies, recently 
described Modi in an interview with 
Democracy Now! as an extremely 
hard and cold-blooded chief minister best known for having presided 
over a pogrom against Muslims in 
Gujarat. 
While her politics necessarily 
predispose her against Modis candidacy, she correctly stated that Modi 
has never directly expressed his regret for the 2002 Gujarat violence. 
In fact, the closest Modi has come to 
such an expression was in a Reuters 
interview in 2013, in which he compared his feelings to those of a driver 
involved in an accident: ...if a puppy comes under the wheel, will it be 
painful or not? Of course it is. Such 
a statement is needlessly callous, if 
not darkly revealing of the smallness 
of Modis politics.
India is going to the polls right 
now, and there is nothing we can 
do to prevent Modis election to the 
post of prime minister. But perhaps 
it is not too little to keep before us 
this shameful political history of the 
man who will preside over the largest democracy in the world. Such 
insistent memory may prove the 
strongest bulwark against the recurrence of state-sanctioned violence 
in India during Modis likely tenure 
as prime minister, and our only way 
of redeeming the unprecedented act 
of democracy currently underway in 
India.
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Google Glass hurts privacy, social interaction
Last Tuesday, Google Glass was 
available for purchase by the public 
for one day. As with most technological developments, this piece of technology brings new ethical and social 
questions to the table.
Many see the biggest issue, like 
most recent breakthroughs to other 
technological products, to be one of 
privacy. But in this case, a whole new 
dynamic between the rights of individuals is established.
People should have the right to 
buy a commodity such as Google 
Glass on the market. But what if this 
good allows people to record videos, 
take pictures, and post them to the 
web without allowing any indication to others who may be captured 
in the pictures and videos? Dont 
people have the freedom to control 
their entrance into the broader public sphere, and the freedom to enjoy 
a meal across the table from another 
person with the technology without 
worrying that their every word is being recorded?
Privacy is a tricky subject, but 
in the end Google Glass is not the 
be-all and end-all of privacy concerns in terms of recording private 
conversations or tracking a persons  
movements. 
Those who wish to record private 
moments already have other means 
of doing so, though Google Glass 
does make this ability more widely 
available. And those who wish to 
track someone can already rely on 
the individuals cellphone.
The real issue with Google Glass 
is what it will do to social interactions. The world is already plagued 
by smartphones intruding into 
conversations, meals, and dates. It 
seems questionable whether humans 
can resist the temptation of constant 
connectivity during real-world interactions, or if technology will get in 
the way.
Last week, NPR reported on the 
effects of parents smartphone use 
on their children, concluding that 
parents excessive use of technology 
causes children to feel exhausted, 
frustrated, sad, and angry in ?ghting 
to get their parents attention  a response similar to sibling rivalry. And 
thats just due to smartphone use. 
How much worse will the problem 
get if the device is actually put on 
their face?
In the end, the fallout from 
Google Glass will be entirely dependent on the consumers response. 
Maybe one day we will realize that 
the upgrade isnt worth the downgrade in our social interactions and, 
ultimately, our quality of life.
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
RACHEL COHEN*
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER*
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER*
Contributing Editor
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
MAIRAD PETTIT
Personnel Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager
SARA REMI FIELDS
Asst. Photo Editor
JASON CHEN
Asst. Photo Editor
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
ROBERT MARATOS
Asst. Systems Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Asst. Layout Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
NOL UM
Asst. News Editor
ALVIN MATTHEWS
Asst. News Editor
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
JENNA BODNAR
Asst. Pillbox Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
JOSH SMITH
Contributing Editor
JENNIFER COLOMA
Contributing Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
SENIOR STAFF 
Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, 
Amelia Britton, Matt Brown, Connie Chan, 
Gordon Estes, Katherine Huang, Stephanie 
Stern
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Mina Kim, Udaya 
Malik, Linging Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni, Kyle Henson
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
Kyung Min Lee/Staff Artist

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
April 21, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
The Tartan has been spotting plenty of admitted student tours on campus lately. So we asked,
Should students put themselves in debt in order to attend more prestigious universities?
Compiled by Sara Remi Fields
KYLE HENSON
A recent study thats gaining a 
lot of attention describes the United 
States as an oligarchy  serving the 
interests of the wealthy and powerful  rather than a democracy. Is 
anyone actually surprised? As the 
scope of federal power has expanded, theres more and more that the 
government can do for those who 
have the in?uence and power to 
guide the governments actions.
The United States pathway to 
democracy isnt campaign ?nance 
regulation or lobbying restrictions, 
but decreasing the size of the federal 
government by simplifying the tax 
code and delegating more power and 
responsibility to the states. The less 
power the government has, the less 
it can do for special interests, and the 
more democratic our society will be.
The study in question, from Princeton University and Northwestern 
University titled Testing Theories 
of American Politics: Elites, Interest 
Groups, and Average Citizens, took 
responses from surveys conducted 
from the 1980s to the early 2000s, 
asking people questions regarding 
demographics and their political interests. The study then aggregated 
this data based on income level 
and found that the actual outcome 
of government policy matched the 
desires of the wealthiest Americans, and not those of middle-class  
Americans.
Separately, the study analyzed 
the fundraising of special interest 
groups and compared their goals to 
legislative outcomes, ?nding that the 
groups interests are well re?ected in 
federal government actions.
With the amount at stake in the 
decisions that the federal government makes, who can blame wealthy 
individuals, corporations, and special interest groups for wanting to 
get involved? For a giant multinational corporation making billions 
of dollars, a marginal decrease in 
their tax rate means so much more 
pro?t than a new marketing push or 
a new product introduction. Thats 
why you see giant companies lobbying so hard for special regulatory 
loopholes that they can indulge in. If 
they succeed, its the most bang for 
their buck as far as making money 
for shareholders, which is, believe it 
or not, the legal duty of corporate executives and board members.
Because power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely, 
and because lobbying is a necessary 
way for obscure interests to be heard, 
especially if government action has 
an unforeseen and outsized effect on 
a small but important group of people, theres nothing we can do about 
the sway of the wealthy and powerful in government. In a sense, this is 
a necessary evil that any people who 
live under a government will have 
to deal with. Understanding this, 
if we limit the power of the federal 
government, then special interests 
can only gain a small bene?t from 
in?uencing the federal government 
and, in an ideal world, that wont be 
worth their time and money.
The primary way that special interests exert their power is through 
the tax code. Special loopholes for 
wealthy Americans and powerful 
corporations ensure that those who 
have outstanding wealth and in?uence keep it that way. Passing the 
FairTax plan eliminates this mechanism of corruption altogether.
The FairTax removes all existing 
taxes and instead levies a 23 percent 
sales tax on all goods and services. To 
make the system progressive  and 
more progressive than our current 
tax code at that  each American 
household receives a monthly check 
in the mail that refunds all money 
they wouldve lost to the sales tax if 
their income rested on the poverty 
line and they spent all of it. In plain 
terms, if you make the poverty line, 
you pay no taxes. If you make twice 
the poverty line, you pay an 11.5 percent tax. This payment is adjusted 
based on the size of your household, 
as well as revenue neutral with the 
current tax code.
If FairTax legislation is passed, 
the absence of corporate taxes will 
eliminate a huge cause for corporations to lobby or to be involved in 
politics at all, which will give them 
more money to reinvest in their company, pay higher wages, or pay dividends to stockholders, all of which 
would bene?t everyone by boosting 
the economy. After the FairTax is 
passed, the only group that will be 
singularly affected by the tax code is 
the American people, bringing our 
oligarchy down to the democracy it 
was meant to be.
Finally, if we put more and more 
decisions in the hands of states  
such as Medicare, Medicaid, Social 
Security, and drug legalization  
special interests and wealthy people 
wont be able to bene?t much anymore from in?uencing the government. Washington, D.C. will ?nally 
become what it was intended to be: a 
mean, lean, infrastructure-building, 
?ghting machine.
Money will never be fully removed 
from the United States government, 
and we will never have a perfect democracy. Limiting the power of the 
federal government will allow our 
country to still serve the people just 
as well as it does now, and restore 
the democratic ideals that our country was founded upon. Given this 
recent report, and also that a Bush 
and a Clinton are considering presidential runs in 2016, now is the time 
to restore the federal government to 
its appropriate size and scope.
As Ronald Reagan once put it, 
You cant be for big government, big 
spending, big taxes, and still be for 
the little guy.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Cut federal power, eliminate oligarchy
Alison Chiu/Staff Artist
Limits on campaign funds vital to prevent corruption
SATVIKA NETI
Cultural appropriation is the reproduction and commodi?cation of 
elements of a certain culture, usually 
for purely aesthetic value, by those 
who do not belong to that culture. 
For example, actress Vanessa 
Hudgens is known for posting pictures of herself on Instagram wearing Native American headdresses 
and South Asian bindis. Cultural appropriation is a huge issue in todays 
society, and nothing exempli?es this 
problem more than the Coachella 
Valley Music and Arts Festival that 
ended last weekend.
One of the reasons that cultural 
appropriation is problematic is that 
it strips away the cultural meaning 
and context of something. When 
Hudgens wears a headdress, she is 
taking something sacred to most Native American cultures and reducing 
it to mere aesthetics. This behavior 
turns something profoundly meaningful into an accessory. 
Now, this isnt really the issue 
with things like bindis and even henna because most South Asian people 
I know, including myself, couldnt 
tell you the spiritual or religious 
meaning behind these things. However, if I were to go outside in a bindi 
or with henna all over my hands, I 
would be othered. 
I would be considered one of 
those immigrants that hadnt assimilated properly, or that still clung 
to the old ways. Id probably get 
stared at and laughed at and asked 
to explain myself a billion times 
over. Ive heard stories of my friends 
getting sent home in elementary 
school because they had henna and 
the administration thought it was a  
disease.
But when someone who isnt 
from that culture and doesnt have 
my brown skin wears a bindi or does 
henna simply for the artistic value of 
it, none of this discrimination happens to them. Theyre allowed to 
pick and choose the parts of my culture that they feel are good enough, 
and simply leave behind everything 
else that comes with it, because they 
dont see value in it. They are allowed 
to wear my culture as an accessory, 
when I  a person of that culture 
 am not. The othering and the racism isnt something I can walk away 
from; I cant just take off my skin the 
same way they can just take off the 
bindi at the end of the day and walk 
away from it.
So when Vanessa Hudgens posts 
pictures of herself in headdresses 
and bindis, its harmful in two ways. 
One, because it strips away the 
meaning behind the piece of clothing or adornment, and, second, because it perpetuates the idea that the 
things that make up my culture are 
something to pick and choose from.
Besides Hudgens, there are multiple pictures of celebrities at Coachella appropriating different cultures, 
and countless occurrences outside of 
it as well. Many celebrities have appropriated cultures, from Katy Perry 
in her music video for Unconditionally where she dons a kimono, to 
Selena Gomez in Come and Get It, 
where she wears a sari and a bindi.
This article isnt meant to point 
?ngers, but rather to call out the 
enormous number of people who 
have been perpetrators in cultural 
appropriation, and to try to explain 
why such appropriation is a problem.
Satvika Neti (sneti@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Culture should never be an accessory
XIYU WANG
Earlier this month, in the landmark ruling McCutcheon v. Federal 
Election Commission, the Supreme 
Court struck down all limits on 
campaign donations. Apparently, 
according to Chief Justice John 
Roberts, who wrote the majority opinion, someone who sends a 
$100 million check to a candidate is 
not engaging in corruption. In fact, 
Roberts claimed this action did not 
even have the appearance of corruption. 
Roberts asserted that Congress 
may only target speci?c types of 
corruption, where there is a clear 
agreement that a politician will act 
in a speci?c way in return for money. By Robertss de?nition, only the 
most ?agrant instances of quid pro 
quo would be considered corruption. This mindbogglingly narrow 
de?nition of corruption, as well as 
the impacts of the decision itself, 
has highly problematic implications 
for American politics.
Ill start with the obvious: someone who gives any politician huge 
amounts of money will exert undue 
in?uence in politics. The McCutcheon decision provides the most 
bene?t to the select handful of individuals who can afford to donate 
more than $123,000 per election 
cycle  the former cap on campaign 
contributions  namely billionaires 
like Sheldon Adelson and the Koch 
Brothers.
Last month, prominent politicians including New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and Wisconsin 
Governor Scott Walker visited Adelson in Las Vegas to effectively court 
him after Adelson announced he 
would hold private interviews with 
politicians to see who he would back 
in 2016. How can anyone say that 
this obsequious political mating 
dance does not even have the appearance of corruption?
We dont need a cap on just 
campaign contributions, but also 
on overall campaign spending. In 
the past decade, the role of money 
in politics has grown signi?cantly. 
Since the 1970s, the Supreme Court 
has steadily chipped away at campaign ?nance laws, culminating 
in the rise of super PACs in 2010s 
Citizens United v. Federal Election 
Commission. As a result of these decisions, campaign spending has exploded.
According to CNN, there has 
been a threefold increase in spending in congressional races since 
1986. A run for the House today 
takes $1.6 million on average, and a 
run for the Senate takes $10.4 million. It is highly unlikely that anyone 
who is not a millionaire  or backed 
by a millionaire  can compete in 
the races.
In fact, according to The New York 
Times, for the ?rst time in history, 
more than half of the House and 
Senate are millionaires. The United 
States is becoming a nation run by 
millionaires for billionaires, and it 
shows in both our policies and political discourse.
Politicians will debate universal 
health care, immigration reform, 
and the extension of unemployment 
bene?ts for months on end, but billions of dollars of subsidies for large 
corporations are often passed without even the slightest discussion. 
Taxes are becoming increasingly regressive; according to Mother Jones, 
tax rates for highest earners are at 
their lowest in years, especially so 
for the top 400 households in the 
nation.
Given this state of affairs, it may 
seem impossible to ever ?x American politics. However, one of the 
main points in Thomas Pikettys 
recent book Capital in the TwentyFirst Century is that a drift toward 
oligarchy can be prevented by good 
policy, such as a progressive tax policy and spending on public goods. 
Campaign ?nance laws are just as 
important as these policies.
Limits on campaign spending and 
contributions would not completely 
end corruption and plutocracy in 
America, but it would signi?cantly 
reduce the power and in?uence of 
the super wealthy and large corporations in elections. Money speaks 
far louder than words, and we need 
to make sure that speaking with 
money is the exception, rather than 
the rule, in Washington.
Xiyu Wang (xiyuw@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Paul Ramirez
MechE
First-year
If you look at the opportunity 
cost and the money you can make 
as a result of going to a great university, that outweighs the shorthand cost of the investment.
Divya Bramharouthu
Material Science and 
Engineering, BME
First-year
I would take the debt because 
in the end I would be able to pay 
it off probably quicker if I had 
attended a better university.
Seh-Joo Kwon
Biological Sciences
First-year
There are pros and cons for both 
sides ... if I were in the situation, 
I probably would choose not to 
put myself into debt.
Dominic Akerele
Chemistry
Junior
Yes, because it gives you more 
opportunities especially in the job
market. It also opens lots of 
doors.
Andy Kim
Transitional CFA
First-year
Its a case-by-case basis. If you 
can afford to, that would be the
obvious decision, but otherwise, 
it really depends.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  April 21, 2014

---------------------------------------------------

April 21, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
It wasnt supposed to be 
this hard. With the new playoff system, the Penguins were 
supposed to have a cakewalk 
to the Conference Finals. 
The new Metropolitan 
Division looked horrendous 
at midseason, and with the 
new format that has teams 
play within their division for 
the ?rst two rounds of playoffs, Pittsburgh looked like a 
lock for a Conference Finals 
appearance. 
The biggest question was 
supposed to be if anyone else 
would win a game.
Now, the Columbus Blue 
Jackets have put the Penguins 
on notice. After two close games at 
home, the Penguins are lucky 
to only be tied 11 in the series and not be sitting in a twogame hole.
Their traditional playoff 
woes are back in full form 
with inconsistent play all over 
the ice. 
Captain Sidney Crosby is 
a minus two through the two 
games  even with his three 
assists over the same time period  and assistant captain 
Evgeni Malkin is sitting a minus one with two assists.
Both players are getting 
dominated by the stronger, 
more physical Blue Jacket defensemen, which has been a 
trend for the Penguins over 
the course of their playoff 
woes. 
Their high-?ying, highscoring offense, which has 
proven consistently effective 
over the course of the regular 
season, cannot stand up to the 
hard-nose style of play in the 
playoffs. 
This, combined with goaltender Marc-Andre Fleurys 
track record of inconsistent 
postseason play, has led to 
near-perpetual playoff disappointment.
Even with the expectations 
of failure, the Penguins were 
still expected to get out of the 
?rst round, particularly when 
up against the Blue Jackets, 
who until Saturday had never 
won a playoff game in franchise history. 
But Columbus does have 
the pieces in place to take 
the Penguins to a game seven, if not eliminate them 
completely.
Blue Jackets goaltender 
Sergei Bobrovsky is one of 
the leagues best, winning last 
years Vezina Trophy for best 
goalie play. 
He is one of the few goaltenders in the league that 
has even a prayer of stopping 
Crosby and Malkin when they 
are on their game, although 
he will still need to have one 
of the best seven-game runs of 
his life.
In the regular season, the 
Penguins beat the Blue Jackets 
in all ?ve of their matchups, 
another major strike against 
the Penguins. 
Apparently, Columbus 
didnt get the memo and came 
out ?ring in the ?rst period 
and the start of the second, 
taking a two-goal lead in game 
one on Wednesday. 
They did eventually blow 
the lead, but showed that they 
would not go down without a 
?ght.
Game two was a role reversal, with the Penguins jumping 
out to a quick two-goal lead in 
the ?rst period on the back of 
forward Brian Gibbonss ?rst 
two playoff goals, 54 seconds 
apart.
This time the Blue Jackets 
fought back, sending the game 
into double overtime before 
forward Matt Calvert scored 
his ?rst-ever playoff goal, ensuring that his team ?nally 
won their ?rst playoff game.
The most important takeaway for the ?rst two games 
is just that  it was only two 
games. 
There is still plenty of time 
for the series to be turned 
around for the Penguins and 
go the way it was supposed 
to  go on paper, but the Blue 
Jackets now have Pittsburgh 
on their toes. 
This trip is not going to be 
an  easy one through the playoffs, like they were expecting. 
If the Penguins dont step it 
up, they wont be hoisting the 
Stanley Cup, but have time to 
work on their golf game.
Penguins have a tougher time than anticipated for Finals
BRADEN KELNER
Editor-in-Chief
Both the mens and womens track and ?eld teams 
secured victories on Wednesday at the Carnegie Mellon 
Tri-Meet, where the men 
took home 11 ?rst-place titles 
and the women took home 
six ?rst-place titles.
 
Mens Track and Field
The men dominated the 
competition at home against 
Allegheny College and Penn 
State Erie, The Behrend College.
Senior Zachary ErraHernandez took home three 
?rst-place titles in the shot 
put, hammer throw, and discus. Erra-Hernandez tossed 
the shot put 16.01 meters for 
a season best, reached 52.97 
meters in the hammer throw, 
and threw the discus 41.08 
meters. Meanwhile, ?rst-year 
Jacob Brooks ?nished ?rst in 
the javelin throw with a mark 
of 52.63 meters.
Sophomore Brandon 
Hoane also took home the 
?rst-place title in the triple 
jump at 12.49 meters, and 
senior Christopher Holliday 
snagged ?rst place when he 
reached 4.25 meters in the 
pole vault.
First-years Owen Norley and Andrew Chang both 
took ?rst in their respective 
events, Norley ?nishing the 
800-meter run with a time of 
1:56.21 and Chang ?nishing 
the 110-meter hurdles with a 
time of 15.73. 
Seniors Josh Newby and 
Kenneth Murphy took ?rst 
in their respective events as 
well, Newby with a time of 
9:24.23 in the 3,000-meter 
steeplechase and Murphy 
with a time of 4:04.69 in the 
1,500-meter run.
Junior Thomas Vandenberg placed ?rst in the 
400-meter run at 48.61, a 
career best. Vandenberg was 
also recently named the University Athletic Association 
(UAA) Athlete of the Week 
for his performance at the 
Bucknell Bison Classic on 
April 1213. Vandenberg 
placed sixth at the Classic in 
the 800-meter race with a 
time of 1:52.46.
Other notable Carnegie 
Mellon performances include 
senior Nathan Creeks careerbest javelin throw of 51.06 
meters for third place and a 
14.98-meter shot put throw 
for second place, as well as 
?rst-year Don Boyers careerbest 6.29-meter long jump 
for third place.
 
Womens Track and Field
The womens track and 
?eld team also swept the 
competition at the Carnegie 
Mellon Tri-Meet, winning 
the event with six ?rst-place 
titles. 
Senior Jacqueline Guevel placed ?rst in both the 
100-meter hurdles and 
400-meter hurdles, with 
times of 15.37 and 1:04.28, 
respectively.
Senior Samantha Oleson 
took ?rst in the javelin throw 
with a toss of 27.74, a career 
best. She also accomplished 
a career best and received 
second place for tossing the 
weight throw 41.52 meters.
The Tartans shined in the 
jumps, with junior Sasha 
Spalding jumping 5.07 meters in the long jump, ?rstyear Rebecca Fortner jumping 1.50 meters in the high 
jump, and ?rst-year Karen 
Irvine reaching 2.90 meters 
in the pole vault. 
Irvines mark was a career 
best. All three women placed 
?rst in their events. Firstyear Sommer Farber placed 
third in the long jump with 
a 4.58-meter jump and a career-best mark as well.
Both the mens and womens track and ?eld teams 
will compete next on April 
26 27 at the 2014 UAA Outdoor Track and Field Championships at the University of 
Chicago.
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon saw 
both golf teams in action 
this week, with the women 
?nishing off their season 
and the men playing their 
penultimate regular season 
tournament.
The womens team ?nished its inaugural season 
as a club team with a ?fthplace ?nish at the Grove 
City Invitational. Playing 
at the Grove City Country 
Club, the Tartans shot a 438 
for the 18-hole event and 
were led by senior Ali Nichols and her fourth-place 
overall score of 91. Junior 
Brooke Kuei and sophomore Yoon Hee Ha both ?nished strong shooting 100 
and 102, respectively.
Next season, the womens team will start intercollegiate play as an of?cial 
varsity sport. 
Over at the Vulcan Invitational, the men came 
home with a second-place 
?nish with a consistent 
team effort. 
The tournament was 
hosted by eventual winner California University 
of Pennsylvania at Cedarbrook Golf Course. Senior 
Ian Bangor and ?rst-year 
George Qian tied for ninth 
overall, each shooting 154 
over 36 holes.
Sophomore Ben DuCarme and junior Cameron 
Low both came up big for 
the Tartans as they ?nished 
one and two strokes, respectively, behind Bangor and 
Qian. DuCarme went home 
tied for 12th individually, 
while Low tied for 14th.
The Tartans will ?nish their regular season on 
April 30, when they host 
the Carnegie Mellon Invitational at Longue Vue Country Club.
Editors Note: Brooke 
Kuei is SciTech editor for The 
Tartan.
Golf ends 
season Track and field performs well
Photos courtsey Joseph, SouthCentral, and hockey32090 of Flickr
Captain Sidney Crosby (left), goalie Marc-Andre Fleury (top right), and assistant captain Evgeni Geno Malkin (bottom right) must pull together to lead the Penguins to Conference Finals this season.

---------------------------------------------------

April 21, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A12
Jumping into the ongoing playoffs with NBA predictions
NISHANT RENIWAL
Staffwriter
The regular season has of?cially ended and the playoff seedings have been decided. This years playoffs 
have thrown some interesting 
matchups and are bound to ignite some long standing rivalries. So what do each teams 
playoff hopes look like?
 
Indiana Pacers
We start at the very top of 
the East with the stumbling 
Pacers. One of the best teams 
before the All-Star break, 
Indiana has tailed off miserably since they traded forward 
Danny Granger for guard Evan 
Turner and forward Lavoy Allen. They lost a veteran and 
a defensively-sound player 
for an erratic sieve coming 
from the pathetic Philadelphia 76ers. They nearly lost 
the ?rst-round seed to the 
Miami Heat, but gained it 
back through the Heats own 
struggles. Their offense, long 
their weakest point, has been 
second worst only after the 
76ers. Their much vaunted defense has served some cracks. 
The conference ?nals seemed 
a lock at a time, but the Chicago Bulls seem capable of 
taking that away from them. 
Players like All-Stars small forward and shooting guard Paul 
George and center Roy Hibbert need to step up, else they 
face a failed season overall.
 
Miami Heat
No one should be too worried about the Heat at this 
point. Their objective from the 
regular season was not the No. 
1 seed, but more importantly, 
the health of all their veterans, 
especially superstar guard 
Dwyane Wade. They are wellrested and have Wade clicking 
into gear again for the playoffs, something that is very 
important for this team. They 
also happen to be two-time 
defending champions, and 
have an easy ?rst round match 
against the Charlotte Bobcats. 
However, the Brooklyn Nets 
might pose a serious challenge 
in the second round. Anything 
but a championship will be a 
failure for them, but its hard 
to bet against a team with the 
best player in the world, fourtime MVP forward LeBron 
James.
 
Toronto Raptors
The surprise package from 
the East and the third-seeded 
Atlantic Division champions, 
the Raptors, are looking to 
make a name for themselves in 
the playoffs. They have their 
stars in guards Kyle Lowry and 
DeMar DeRozan, but its unlikely they will be able to cross 
the Brooklyn Nets in the ?rst 
round. The Raptors have been 
nothing short of sensational 
since the trade of forward 
Rudy Gay to the Sacramento 
Kings, but one wonders if that 
will be enough against a team 
full of playoff veterans. Their 
next matchup is also against 
the Miami Heat, so the conference semi?nals are de?nitely 
the ceiling for them.
 
Chicago Bulls
The injury to star guard 
Derrick Rose and the trade of 
key forward Luol Deng meant 
the Bulls were supposed to 
tank for a high lottery pick 
this season. All-Star center 
Joakim Noah and coach Tom 
Thibodeau apparently didnt 
get the message. The Bulls 
were threatening for the third 
seed after the All-Star break, 
and Noah is likely coming in 
third in the MVP ballots after 
having a career year. Much 
rests on the shoulders of their 
point center for their hopes in 
the playoffs, and he needs to 
be ably ?anked by sixth man 
of the year favorite forward 
Taj Gibson and defensive wing 
Jimmy Butler. The conference 
?nals seem like a real 
possibility.
 
Washington Wizards
This team is good, but 
almost certainly not good 
enough to progress even in 
the East. They got an unfavorable matchup against the 
Bulls, where All-Star point 
guard John Wall is likely to be 
hounded by several defensive 
stalwarts. It would be a surprise to see them make it any 
further, but congratulations 
must go out to the Wizards 
for ending with a higher than 
0.500 record for the ?rst time 
in ?ve years.
 
Brooklyn Nets
The team with the highest payroll in the league is the 
team no one wants to play 
in the playoffs. Miami tried 
dodging them by avoiding 
the ?rst seed, but got them 
anyway. The Nets discovered 
their identity under rookie 
coach Jason Kidd, following 
a disastrous 1021 start, and 
currently possess matchup 
nightmares for any team. They 
are full of playoff veterans like 
Paul Pierce, Kevin Garnett, Joe 
Johnson, Deron Williams and 
Andrei Kirilenko. If the team 
stays healthy, watch out for 
them as dark horses to make 
the conference ?nals.
 
Charlotte Bobcats
The Bobcats are another 
surprise story, as coach Steve 
Clifford instilled a defensive 
resilience in the team and elevated center Al Jeffersons 
game to make a playoff team. 
The Bobcats are not a great 
team, but, in the future years, 
we see them here more often 
than not. They will lose to 
Miami in the ?rst round, but 
could have reached the second 
had they got the sixth seed 
against the Raptors, who they 
beat three times in the regular 
season.
 
Atlanta Hawks
They have made the playoffs for seven straight seasons 
now and, this year, they made 
the playoffs without star center Al Horford too. They beat 
the New York Knicks to the 
eighth seed and hardly present a dead rubber matchup for 
Indiana. In All-Star forward 
Paul Millsap, they have one 
of the most underrated forwards in the league, a deadly 
sharpshooter in Kyle Korver 
and a blossoming rookie center in Pero Antic. Their series 
against Indiana should be an 
exciting one, as it ended 22 
in the regular season.
We move to the West, 
which had one of the deepest 
?elds seen in years and presents some of the most exciting playoff matchups in recent 
history.
 
San Antonio Spurs
As All-Star guard Tony 
Parker recently said, anything 
but a championship will be a 
failure for them. Legendary 
coach and coach-of-the-year 
favorite Gregg Popovich has 
led this team to the best record in the league again, and 
this time without any player 
playing even 30 MPG. The ?rst 
round against Dallas should 
be easy, but after that no one 
knows whats going to happen in this conference. Will 
forward Tim Duncan get his 
much-coveted ?fth ring to put 
an icing on one of the greatest 
careers in basketball?
 
Oklahoma City Thunder
A healthy Russell Westbrook going into the playoffs 
means the Thunder have a 
great shot at making the conference ?nals again. This team 
is defensively sound and offensively explosive. Forward 
Kevin Durant is having a career year (again) and this time 
seems a lock to win the MVP 
over LeBron James. If they can 
overcome their reliance on 
Durant for their scoring, they 
could be dark horses to become the champions. But ?rst 
a grueling ?rst round series 
against the Memphis Grizzlies 
looms, who beat them in the 
second round last year.
 
Los Angeles Clippers
Gone are those days when 
the Lakers would be in this 
spot. Enter the other team 
from LA, currently sporting 
two of the top 10 players in 
the NBA and a top ?ve coach 
in Doc Rivers. All-stars Blake 
Grif?n and Chris Paul will 
carry this team on their back 
and with Docs coaching it 
wouldnt be a surprise to see 
them reaching the very top. 
But important role players 
such as sixth man of the year 
contender Jamal Crawford 
and sharpshooter JJ Reddick 
must step up to the cause and 
help out the stars, else the ?rst 
round matchup against Golden State Warriors itself may 
not be overcome.
 
Houston Rockets
The addition of All-Star 
center Dwight Howard has 
propelled this team into the 
NBA elite, and its no surprise. 
With superstar guard James 
Harden leading the way, this 
team has played some of the 
most exciting basketball this 
season and have greatly improved their defense thanks 
to Howard. However, the 
Rockets remain an excessively 
turnover-prone team, and in 
the playoffs, that can really 
doom you. Players like forwards Chandler Parsons and 
Terrence Jones and backup 
guard Jeremy Lin need to have 
a substantial impact, and they 
need point guard and defensive stalwart Patrick Beverly to 
be healthy to make progress.
 
Portland Trailblazers
One of the most surprising 
teams this season, the Trailblazers have certainly cooled 
off after the blistering 245 
start. But in All-Stars Damian 
Lillard and LaMarcus Aldrige, they have two offensive 
weapons that can give any 
team nightmares. Its hard to 
see where this team will go 
though, as their defense remains very susceptible and its 
hard to imagine them overcoming Harden and the Rockets to make it any further. Lets 
hope their Cinderella story 
continues.
 
Golden State Warriors
Its a testament to the Western Conference that even the 
sixth seed is being labeled as 
a potential dark horse contender. The Warriors at their 
best have been sensational. 
All-Star Stephen Curry has 
established himself as probably the best point guard after Chris Paul, center Andrew 
Bogut and wing Andre Iguodala have made this team one 
of the most defensively sound 
in the NBA, and sharpshooter 
Klay Thompson has made 
huge strides from last season. 
It remains to be seen whether 
they can ?nd their consistency 
though and rediscover their 
home form. Will the splash 
brothers create a huge wave in 
the west?
 
Memphis Grizzlies
They were ?ghting for their 
playoff lives until the penultimate game of the season 
and now they are the seventh 
seed, avoiding San Antonio in 
the ?rst round. The Grizzlies 
are one of the best defensive 
teams in the league and have 
several underrated players 
in center Marc Gasol, point 
guard Mike Conley, and forward Zach Randolph. Their 
unity drives them forward and 
one should watch out for them 
to make some noise in the 
playoffs. They are the team no 
one wants to face and could be 
the ones making sure that Durant cannot add a ring to his 
probable MVP anytime soon.
 
Dallas Mavericks
All-star forward Dirk Nowitzki is back where he belongs 
 in the West elite. After a 
horrible year where Dallas 
struggled to even get to 0.500, 
they have made it back with 
an explosive offense carried by 
Dirk and star guard Monta Ellis. They have been consistent 
but are unfortunate to face 
the Spurs in the ?rst round, 
as they lost the season series 
40 to them. But no one really 
counted them in the race during the 2011 title run either. 
Itll be hard, and head coach 
Rick Carlisle will have to pull a 
rabbit out of the hat again, but 
lets hope the Mavericks put 
up a ?ght and show everyone 
why they belong.
Mens and womens tennis teams have stunning weekend
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon mens 
and womens tennis teams 
combined for a perfect weekend, going 30. As of last 
week, both teams are ranked 
top 10 in the nation, with 
women sitting at eighth and 
the men at ninth, although 
both candidates are likely to 
move up after strong 
showings.
The women had two games 
this weekend, with the ?rst 
coming Friday against Division I opponent Duquesne 
University. 
The Tartans had a 21 lead 
after doubles competition, 
with ?rst-year Vanessa Pavia 
and junior Bryn Raschke taking their match 84 and senior 
Katie Cecil, along with sophomore Brooke Tsu, ?ghting 
back from an early de?cit to 
claim a 97 victory.
The Tartans really pulled 
away in the singles matches, 
taking ?ve of six to secure the 
72 victory. 
Cecil led the impressive 
showing by the Tartans, as she 
swept her opponent in straight 
sets 60, 60. Pavia and fellow 
?rst-year Nicholle Torres each 
won 62, 64. 
Junior Angela Pratt had the 
toughest road to victory, dropping the ?rst set 16 before 
battling back for the win, ?nishing off 64, 101.
On Saturday, both teams 
took on Kenyon College at 
home. The womens team 
continued their domination 
of the competition, winning 
90 and never dropping a set 
or even going to tie break. The 
three doubles pairs took Kenyon with ease, with Torres and 
Pratt, along with Cecil and junior Lydia Utkin, both winning 
82. 
Raschke and Pavia struggled a touch more, but their 
83 match was still never 
close.
In singles, it was more of 
the same, with only two of the 
12 sets seeing a Kenyon player 
get three or more points. From 
start to ?nish, the Tartans outplayed the competition.
For the men, the competition was a bit more of a challenge, as Kenyons mens team 
is ranked 11th in the nation. 
That being said, the Tartans still cruised to an easy 
72 victory. The men took the 
familiar 21 lead, coming out 
of doubles play with juniors 
Christian Heaney-Secord and 
Will Duncan winning 86, and 
sophomore Yuvraj Kumar and 
?rst-year Kenny Zheng cruising to an 85 victory.
In singles play, the men 
pulled away, using ?ve singles 
victories to seal the win. Zheng 
was one of four Tartans to win 
in straight sets as he drubbed 
his opponent 61, 60. 
Sophomore Abhishek
Alla was at the other end of 
the spectrum, as his ?rst set 
turned into a marathon before 
he pulled it out 76 (1311) 
before clinching the victory 
with a 64 second set.
Both teams will travel to 
Orlando this week to take 
place in the University Athletic 
Association championships.
Jason Chen/Assistant Photo Editor
Left to right: Junior Lydia Utkin, junior Angela Pratt, and senior Katie Cecil had strong performances this weekend, resulting in two signi?cant victories against Duquesne University and Kenyon College.

---------------------------------------------------

Summer Fashion
A guide for styling your wardrobe to 
accomodate the glowing sunshine  B3
04.21.14 Volume 108, Issue 15
Lives of the Saints
The School of Drama concludes their 
centennial celebration  B4

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Get a quick laugh out of this weeks comics!7
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents Where Do We Go Now, Her, 
and The Lego Movie. 
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner 
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord
ART EDITOR MIchelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Jonathan Leung
6
35
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about postholiday problems and registering for classes.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Summer fashion
Everything you need to know about looking 
good this summer.
3
School of Drama
Lives of the Saints fails to properly showcase 
student talent in a series of short plays.
4
Getting outsideA guide to fun and cheap things to do around 
Pittsburgh now that its warming up.
5
Puzzles
Challenge yourself with this weeks sudoku and 
kakuro puzzles.
9
Horoscopes
Find out whether the stars have aligned in your 
favor this week.
10
Calendar
Check out this weeks calendar for arts and 
culture happenings both on campus and off.
11
GRiZ & Menert
The two electro-soul artists play an energetic 
show at the Rex Theater.
6

---------------------------------------------------

fashion
pillbox 04.21.143
Styles for summer wardrobes
The sun is ?nally out, and its time to revamp your style
Summer is quickly approaching, and the question 
that everyones wondering is: What do I wear? 
After all, its been so cold for the past few months 
that its easy to forget how to dress for the warmth. 
Even more likely is the possibility that you want to 
stray from shorts and T-shirts to something more 
fashionable. There are a lot of perfect summer 
clothing options for whatever plans you have this 
summer, including internships, volunteering, or 
doing absolutely nothing.
Though there are people who spend their summers 
on the couch, many try to get some type of work 
experience. Choosing what to wear for a job or 
internship can be a hassle, since the clothes people 
wear in warmer weather are usually more relaxed. 
For a work setting, choose nice shirts and blouses 
that are polished, but still lightweight and summery. 
What you wear can also vary greatly depending on 
how formal you have to dress. If the suggested attire 
is more relaxed, check out the brand Anthropologie 
for cute, classy blouses. These blouses can be 
worn with nice pencil skirts that are either black or 
patterned.
Maybe youre spending your summer volunteering. 
While theres no need to dress formally, there is 
probably a dress code that requires you to look 
polished, to an extent. White jeans are a summer 
staple that look clean and classy as well. Wear 
these with a girly floral blouse for a dressed-up look. 
Sundresses, especially of the floral variety, are great 
for volunteering as well if youre allowed to wear 
them. Since flip-flops or sandals are generally not 
allowed at places where you need to dress up, wear 
Sperrys, which are also called boat shoes by some, 
and are polished enough to wear for such occasions. 
Ballet flats are another cute spring/summer option.
Many students spend their summers frequenting 
music festivals, such as the more well-known 
Lollapalooza in Chicago. Clothing stores have 
caught on to the trend as well  websites like 
Tobi.com advertise clothes that one would wear 
for the festival season. This style is commonly 
characterized by high-waisted shorts, crop tops, 
and floral headbands. While I wouldnt recommend 
dressing as if going to a music festival on a daily 
basis, this style makes for great pictures!
A variety of high-waisted shorts can already be 
found at most stores. The best ones look like they 
were cut from jeans. If youre feeling particularly 
thrifty or creative, you can even try this approach on 
your own. All you need are some old-fashioned highwaisted jeans and some scissors. If youre a huge fan 
of dip-dyed shorts, you can make those yourself as 
well. There are plenty of tutorials online and videos 
on YouTube that teach you how to dip-dye and 
customize shorts. A lot of people try to cut their own 
crop tops as well, but I recommend buying one.
Maxi dresses are a trend that I always associate 
with vacations to exotic locations, though they can 
be worn on days where you feel like looking classy, 
but still casual. Maxi dresses come in a variety of 
patterns, and can be layered with denim jackets in 
cooler weather. They look best with sandals. Maxi 
skirts are another casual summer option, and look 
great with shorter T-shirts and tank tops. Brandy 
Melville has many choices for maxi skirts and 
dresses, as well as other pieces that complement 
them. Another variation of this style includes the 
thin, breezy bell bottoms that you can find at Brandy 
Melville or Free People, which can be paired in 
combinations similar to maxi skirts for a casual 
summer look.
Nikita Mishra | Staffwriter
Advice for awkward people
Dear Josh,
To celebrate both 
holidays that occurred 
yesterday, I partook 
in the consumption of 
substances of the illegal 
variety and hid a bunch of 
Cadbury eggs around my 
dorm. Problem is, I cant 
find them, and now Im 
really hungry and could 
go for some chocolate. 
Any advice on where I 
should search?
Sincerely,
Guy Looking Obsessively 
for Round Yummy Treats/
Ornate Globular Ovals 
During Intense Narcotic 
Tetrahydrocannabinol 
Haziness, Extremely 
Hungry, Investigation 
Going Harrowingly, 
Everyones Staring 
Therewithal
Dear GLORY TO GOD IN 
THE HIGHEST,
Its important that you find 
the eggs ASAP because 
they could potentially melt 
quickly. That could leave 
chocolate stains everywhere, 
and if you hid any in the 
ventilation system, the whole 
dorm will start smelling like 
chocolate, which wont 
be as cool as it sounds. 
Often, when Im looking for 
something or trying to solve 
a problem, I try and clear 
my mind and usually the 
answer will just come to me. 
Although in your case, you 
may want to find a different 
way to clear your mind.
Just make sure to spend 
time with your peeps,
Josh
Dear Josh,
Course registration is 
this week, and Im really 
worried. I got such a late 
registration time, and I 
dont know if Ill be able 
to get into the classes 
that I need. What should I 
do if I cant get into those 
courses?
Sincerely,
Finds Registration 
Undeniably Stressful, 
Tries Repeatedly, A 
Tediously Excruciating 
Debacle
Dear FRUSTRATED,
This is going to be hard 
advice to take, but dont 
worry about it. If by need, 
you mean I need it to 
graduate, your advisor 
should be making sure you 
can get into the class. But 
if by need, you mean, I 
need it so Ill have no Friday 
classes next semester, 
then youll have to realize 
that not everyone is lucky in 
that sense. You have to find 
acceptance and move on.
Ive never been able 
to get a Friday without 
classes either,
Josh
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About chocolate eggs and course registration
           Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief

---------------------------------------------------

4theatre
pillbox 04.21.14
I thought I was going insane today. I put my eye drops 
in my ears, and my ear drops in my eyes. Now I feel like 
Im deaf in this eye, but Ive 20/20 hearing.
This line about sums up the nonsensical comedy of 
the latest School of Drama production, The Lives of 
the Saints. The show, a collection of seven one-act 
plays performed in quick succession, raises interesting 
questions about the way we live. But as a School of 
Drama production, the show falls short in a couple of key 
ways  both in captivating the entirety of its audience 
and in properly showcasing the talents of the student 
actors.
Like the other elements of the show, the set is colorful 
and nonsensical. As viewers enter the theater, they are 
greeted by a stage washed in white, with zany streaks 
and splotches of paint coloring the scene. Dripping 
paint cans line the edge of the stage. And upon closer 
inspection, viewers ?nd that the whitewashed walls 
surrounding the stage arent just walls, but whitepainted door frames and cabinet facades stacked one on 
top of the other.
The show itself is a seven-part series of one-act plays 
by playwright David Ives. Each short clocks in at about 
15 minutes, allowing for a period of quickly delivered 
dialogue before jumping to the next mini-play, usually 
with a strange and somewhat psychedelic transition 
with eerie lighting and noise.
Every short has its own quirky backdrop. In The 
Mystery at Twicknam Vicarage, all three suspects 
dramatically confess to killing a sex-crazed man before 
the victim springs back to life on his living room ?oor. In 
Soap Opera, a Maypole repairman falls in love with his 
childhood washing machine. And in Arabian Nights, a 
wild miscommunication across language barriers leads 
to a passionate declaration of love. All the while, the 
clever and pun-ridden dialogue moves the scenes at a 
rapid pace.
Though this setup makes for a thought-provoking 
and unusual production, it doesnt seem a particularly 
thoughtful choice for a School of Drama show. The 
characters are quirky and distinct, but hardly have time 
to develop in the 15 minutes they each have on stage. 
With this patchwork effect and without a unifying 
narrative, the show feels like a string of technical 
exercises rather than a full production. And for the 
actors, the show presented a one-sided set of challenges: 
The scenes were technically dif?cult, but didnt require 
that the actors convey any broad character change or 
growth  a different kind of challenge.
Furthermore, there seemed to be a split in the audience 
between those who stayed entertained throughout and 
those who, without compelling characters to latch onto, 
tired easily from the incessant and repetitive dialogue. 
A few viewers even left the theater early  an unusual 
event at a School of Drama show. In this way, the show 
seemed a hit-or-miss from viewer to viewer.
Since this production deviated so far from other School 
of Drama productions, the acting is hard to evaluate. 
There were certainly times when exchanges between 
actors feel like shouting matches rather than dialogue 
 sometimes out of necessity  and in such a precisely 
timed production, at times the actors effort showed 
through the carefully rehearsed scenes.
Of course, in no way should the sheer amount of work 
that went into this production be minimized, and there 
are many moments during which the actors technical 
skills shine. In Enigma Variations, the actors take 
turns mimicking each others gestures in almostperfect synchronization  at times, even mouthing the 
words that leave the other actors mouth. In Captive 
Audience, a TV man (senior acting major Antonio 
Marziale) and a TV woman (senior acting major Taylor 
Rose) serve as the voices that emerge from a TV set, 
rapidly switching gears every time the viewers change 
the channel.
In introducing a wide array of characters, the show also 
highlights the actors versatility in shifting from one role 
to another. Senior acting major Michelle Veintimilla gave 
one of the most convincing overall performances, ?rst 
as a confused woman experiencing dj vu in Enigma 
Variations, as a sword-wielding businesswoman in 
Babels in Arms, and as an exasperated housewife 
in Captive Audience. Her voice brings a distinct 
sauciness to each of the characters she portrayed.
Rose and Veintimilla achieved probably the two most 
entertaining performances of all in the ?nal mini-play, 
Lives of the Saints. They played Flo and Edna, old 
women with heavy accents who hobbled around an 
imaginary kitchen, exchanging nonsensical dialogue on 
topics ranging from urinating ducks to pickled pigs feet. 
This scene  as the ?nal installment of the show  is 
punctuated by a bizarre reference to the Last Supper, 
with the entire cast of characters seated at a long table 
weighed down with food.
As a School of Drama production, Lives of the Saints 
has both successful and unsuccessful elements. It is 
an unusual choice, and perhaps not the best choice 
in terms of both its audience reception and its role as 
a student-acted production. Regardless, Lives of the 
Saints elicits more than a few laughs and showcases its 
actors in more than one light, making for a quirky ?nal 
main stage production to end the schools centennial 
celebration. Lives of the Saints runs through April 26.
Rachel Cohen | Publisher
Lives of the Saints doesnt add up to gospel
School of Dramas ?nal show of their centennial celebration is a questionable decision
Enigma Variations
Bebe 1  Bridget Peterson
Bebe 2  Michelle Veintimilla
Bill 1  Jimmy Nicholas
Bill 2  John Garet Stoker
Fifi  Thomas Constantine Moore 
Mystery at Twicknam Vicarage
Sarah  Rachel Keller
Dexter  Mitch Marois
Mona  Taylor Rose
Roger  Michael Reep
Jeremy  Antonio Marziale
Babels in Arms
Gorph  Thomas Constantine Moore
Cannapflit  John Garet Stoker
Eunuch  Jimmy Nicholas
Priestess  Rachel Keller
Businesswoman  Michelle Veintimilla
Soap Opera
Loudspeaker Voice/Friend  Thomas 
Constantine Moore
Maitre D/Old Repairman  Antonio Marziale
Repairman  Michael Reep
Mother/Mabel  Bridget Peterson
The Machine  Rachel Keller
Captive Audience
TV Man  Antonio Marziale
TV Woman  Taylor Rose
Rob  John Garet Stoker
Laura  Michelle Veintimilla
Arabian Nights
Interpreter  Bridget Peterson
Norman  Jimmy Nicholas
Flora  Rachel Keller
Lives of the Saints
Flo  Taylor Rose
Edna  Michelle Veintimilla
Assistants  Michael Reep,
Antonio Marziale, Thomas Constantine Moore

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 04.21.145
The weather is ?nally warming up  hopefully for good 
this time  and there are tons of fun things to do around 
Pittsburgh while you soak up the sun. If you have a few 
extra bucks in your pocket at the end of the semester, 
take advantage of the many events Pittsburgh has to 
offer.
What: Soup Sega
When: Every Saturday from 9 a.m. to noon through June 
21
Where: Bulgarian Macedonian National Educational 
and Cultural Center
449-451 W. 8th Ave.
West Homestead, Pa. 15120
Why: If you consider yourself a foodie, this is a great 
opportunity to get a taste of authentic Bulgarian cuisine. 
This event features 14 different homemade Bulgarian 
soups, in addition to other specialties. People with 
all kinds of dietary restrictions can enjoy this event. 
Vegetarian, gluten-free, and dairy-free options are 
available in addition to the other all-natural, low sodium 
soups. These soups are also available in quart and halfquart frozen prepackaged containers, so you can take 
them back to campus and enjoy them as a nice diversion 
from campus food.
What: All About the Burgh, The Culture to Ketchup 
Tour
When: Every Friday (12:45 p.m.), Saturday (10:00 a.m.), 
and Sunday (12:45 p.m.) through August
Where: Tours depart from Station Square.
125 W. Station Square Dr.
Why: Get to know the city youre living in on a guided 
two-hour tour. Hop aboard a vintage-style trolley and hit 
all of the hot spots in Pittsburgh, including Downtown, 
the North Shore, the Strip District, Oakland, and the 
South Side. In addition, enjoy a behind the scenes tour 
and take a ride on the Duquesne Incline. Tickets for this 
unique view of Pittsburgh are $20.
What: Silk Screen Asian American Film Festival
When: April 26May 4 (recurring daily)
Where: Screenings will be held at various theaters 
around Pittsburgh.
Why: While this event is not outdoors, it still offers 
students a chance to get off campus and experience the 
more cultural side of Pittsburgh. The ?lm festival features 
?lms and ?lmmakers from all over the globe, including 
India, China, Japan, Korea, Palestine, the Philippines, 
and more. Tickets come in a variety of packages and 
range from $15 to $60.
What: Beer Tasting Hike and Boat Cruise
When: April 26, 5:308:30 p.m.
Where: Downtown Pittsburgh
Why: Get some exercise and enjoy the outdoors before 
tasting specialty beers. The group will hike over bridges 
and along river trails from the South Side to the North 
Shore before boarding a Pittsburgh Water Limo to 
enjoy the microbrew tasting. Breads and cheeses will 
accompany the beer. The event is $52 for a non-member, 
and $40 for a member of Venture Outdoors. Interested 
in enjoying a hike on the trails around Pittsburgh, but 
not 21? Visit ventureoutdoors.org to ?nd other outdoor 
events that are open to nature enthusiasts of all ages. 
This group provides safe, enjoyable outdoor events.
What: Dicks Sporting Goods Pittsburgh Marathon
When: May 4
Where: Packet pickup is located at the GNC Live Well 
Health and Fitness Expo in Halls D and E at the David L. 
Lawrence Convention Center.
1000 Ft. Duquesne Blvd
Why: Join other running enthusiasts on a run through 
Pittsburgh. Streets of the city will be closed for the 
marathon. Currently, the marathon, half marathon, and 
marathon relay are sold out, but the 5K and Pet Walk 
are still open. Registration costs $50 for the 5K, and $25 
for the Pet Walk, with an additional $5 cost for each 
additional pet.
What: 22nd Annual Susan G. Komen Pittsburgh Race 
for the Cure
When: May 11
Where: Schenley Park at Flagstaff Hill
Why: Get in some cardio and enjoy the outdoors with 
the Pittsburgh community, all while contributing to a 
good cause  a cure for breast cancer. Participate in 
the largest series of 5K run/?tness walks in the world. 
Runners and non-runners alike are welcome. Participants 
are welcome to walk the 5K or one-mile fun course, or 
cheer on the other participants. Runs can be completed 
as an individual or as a team. All participants receive an 
of?cial Komen Pittsburgh Race for the Cure T-shirt and 
race bib. Prices vary depending on the type of race. For 
more information, visit komenpittsburgh.org.
In addition, there are lots of things to do in Pittsburgh 
that are open regularly.
The Pittsburgh Zoo and PPG Aquarium
Pittsburgh is home to one of the nicest zoos and 
aquariums in the country. Take a break from city life and 
watch baby elephants with their families, see the polar 
bears take a dip, or watch the sea lions play. Admission 
is $15. If you want a more interactive experience, visit 
pittsburghzoo.org to check out behind the scenes tours.
PNC Park
Enjoy the national pastime at PNC Park. The Pittsburgh 
Pirates play almost every day with ticket prices as 
low as $10 for some games. PNC Park also sometimes 
offers promotional features such as Free Shirt Friday, 
?reworks displays, and more. For more information, visit 
pittsburgh.pirates.mlb.com.
Pittsburgh Connections
In the mood to go kayaking, hiking, caving, horseback 
riding, or just enjoy the outdoors and exercise at the 
same time? Pittsburgh Connections is a great option for 
a fun, safe, and affordable day outside doing activities 
you might not always be able to do on your own.
Jenna Bodnar | Assistant Pillbox Editor
A useful guide to get your butt outside
A list of low-cost options to get you out and exploring Pittsburgh before the semester ends
        Courtesy of Wally Gobetz via Flickr
          Courtesy of Kris and Fred via Flickr
Take in some sunshine while munching on some 
CrackerJacks and enjoying a Pittsburgh Pirates game 
at the famous PNC Park on the North Side.
Explore the wonders of nature at the Pittsburgh Zoo 
and PPG Aquarium.

---------------------------------------------------

6music
pillbox 04.21.14
Last Tuesday electro-funk/soul artists GRiZ and Michal 
Menert invaded the sold-out Rex Theater and not one 
person was left standing still. The two rapidly up-andcoming artists, who are currently co-headlining the 
nationwide Power In Numbers tour and have already 
been announced at multiple summer festivals, played 
energetic sets that gave the crowd a great taste of their 
individual styles.
Menert played ?rst, and got the crowd grooving with his 
often jazzy-sounding hip-hop beats. When performing, 
Menert partners with a live drummer, which gives the 
music a distinctive human energy, as well as a high 
volume. Whipping his trademark long black hair around 
wildly while behind the deck, Menert would often grab 
the microphone to offer sweet words about love and life, 
or, at times, break out into a freestyle rap over his own 
song. Highlights included a killer remix of Spirit in the 
Sky and his mellow jam Summer Love.
Certainly the loudest the crowd got the entire night 
was when 21-year-old Detroit native Grant Kwiecinski 
 GRiZ  stepped onto the stage sporting a ?atbrim 
hat, exclaiming Funk You. Saxophone in hand, he 
started the nights set with his collaboration with fellow 
electro-soul artist Gramatik, Digital Liberation is Mad 
Freedom, and kept it rolling from there. Highlights 
from the set included fan-favorite Better Than Ive Ever 
Been, remixes of Aerosmiths Dream On and Jay-Z 
and Kanye Wests N**** in Paris, and of course his 
signature tune, Smash the Funk.
Both artists release all of their music for free. Menert 
disributes his music via his label Pretty Lights Musics 
website prettylightsmusic.com, owned and operated by 
popular electronic artist and close friend Derek Vincent 
Smith  EDM star and festival headliner Pretty Lights. 
GRiZ releases music through his website mynameisgriz.
com. GRiZ released his second full-length album, Rebel 
Era, last September and blew everyone away with an 
album that was sonically and creatively light years past 
its predecessor, 2011s Mad Liberation.
As GRiZ began closing with the adrenaline-pumping 
anthem Gettin Live, which begins with blaring horns 
and a Tupac sample screaming, Am I wrong if I wanna 
get it on till I die?, I looked next to me and saw a man 
wearing sunglasses bouncing a stick up and down. 
At ?rst I didnt pay much attention, and it took a 
moment to realize that he was blind. 
Can you imagine being blind at a concert? Not being 
able to see the bright lights ?ash in time to the music, 
that ecstatic look when someones favorite song comes 
on? But watching this man get down, with Tupac 
screaming in his ear just the same as he was mine, was 
a great reminder of why people come to concerts in the 
?rst place. 
Music, and especially electronic music, has become 
wrapped up in providing an experience by investing in 
huge productions with lights and visuals and the whole 
nine yards. But watching this man have as much fun 
as I was just by hearing a long-deceased Tupac scream 
words that now feel like a statement of lifes purpose 
rahter than a catchy hook for a rap song, proved that no 
matter how bright the lights are, what truly keeps the 
people coming back is good music, plain and simple. 
GRiZ, Michal Menert: thank you for that. 
Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
GRiZ throws the funk down at the Rex 
Shared bill with Michal Menert gave everyone in the crowd something to dance about
dollarmovie
Andie Park | StaffwriterMcConomy Auditorium, University Center
Set in a small Lebanese village inhabited by both 
Muslims and Christians, Where Do We Go Now 
dives right into the religious tension amongst 
the civilians in the village through a female 
perspective. In response to the rising threat of a 
religious way, the towns women unite in order 
to keep the sectarian violence at bay through a 
series of borderline-comical plans (one of which 
includes a group of Ukrainian showgirls). Tragedy 
strikes, bringing the women closer together in 
this ruthless yet emotional ?lm about a struggle 
that is all too real in the world.
Where Do We Go Now
Thursday, April 24
7:30, 10
Her
Friday, April 25  8, 10:30
Saturday, April 26  2:30
In the days of the Internet, social media, and Net?ix, who 
isnt in love with their computer nowadays  especially 
if your computer has the beautifully husky voice of 
Scarlett Johansson? Her is the story of lonesome writer 
Theodore Twombly (Joaquin Phoenix), who purchases 
an operating system named Samantha (Johansson) 
who can organize his emails, wake him up in the 
morning with a charming voice, and have incredibly 
deep conversations with him in the middle of the night. 
Soon enough, the pairs relationship becomes more 
intimate, spurring an intensely romantic relationship. The 
story, although seemingly kooky, is incredibly believable 
as Sam develops a conscience and connects with 
Theodore on a human level. Taking place in the the 
slightly futuristic city of Los Angeles, Her is a dazzling 
?lm that explores relationships and the devices that are 
inevitably taking over our lives.
The Lego Movie
Saturday, April 26
7, 9:30, 12
In the ?rst-ever full-length Lego feature ?lm, The Lego 
Movie takes on the movie industry by full force with its 
brilliant plot and imagination. When Emmet Brickowski 
(voiced by Chris Pratt), an ordinary construction worker, 
gets mistaken for the Special (a.k.a. the Lego Prophet), 
he gets recruited to join a league of superheroes to stop 
an evil tyrant, Lord Business (Will Ferrell), from dominating 
the Lego universe. The Lego Movie isnt your average 
family movie only targeted to make the kids laugh  its 
a hilarious blast for everyone with its crazily imaginative 
story and characters from start to ?nish. Its as if the movie 
marvels at how amazing everything is by showing the 
audience that its all right to break the rules and let ones 
imagination run wild. The Lego Movie is unexpectedly one 
of the best movies of the year and, if you dont revel in its 
awesomeness, you might just have a heart of plastic.

---------------------------------------------------

Conditioning by Randall Munroe
press@xkcd.comxkcd.com
comics
pillbox 04.21.147
How to Lose Friends Playing Catan by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

8comics
pillbox 04.21.14
If You Love Something 
by Alex Culang and Raynato Castro
buttersafe@gmail.com  www.buttersafe.com
Just Another by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 04.21.149
Solutions from April 14
CrosswordTough DifficultyTough Difficulty
Maze Puzzle: Tough Difficulty Mad Lib Puzzle: Fun Difficulty
Madlib courtesy of www.madglibs.comMaze courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Start at the left top arrow and find your way through the 
maze at the bottom right. 
Fill out your mad lib to create funny adventurous stories.

---------------------------------------------------

10horoscopes
pillbox 04.21.14
 1. Baby food
 2. Impersonator
 3. Words of comprehension
 4. Porpoise
 5. With extremeness
 6. Brittle
 7. Fads
 8. Lots and lots
 9. Chipper
10. Subsiding
11. Pertaining to song
12. Pet ___
13. Nuremberg trial defendant
21. Not emp.
22. Chipped in
25. Other, in Oaxaca
26. Consider
27. Dull
28. Aeons
29. Quattro minus uno
31. Indigo source
32. Govt. property overseer
33. Id hate to break up ___
34. ___ -shanter (Scottish cap)
35. School founded in 1440
37. ___ luck!
38. This ___ stickup!
41. Go in again
42. The ___ Falcon
44. German emperor
45. Overhead trains
46. Songwriters org.
47. Unfettered
48. City in Nebraska
49. Graduated glass tube
50. Raucous sound
52. Created
53. Bingo call
54. ___ Three Lives
55. Like some dorms
59. ___ Believer (Monkees hit)
 1. Discharged a debt
 5. Toss out
10. Concert gear
14. Lhasa ___
15. To talk, usually in a pompous manner
16. Page
17. Rind
18. Severity
19. Sheltered, nautically
20. Agent
23. Aids
24. More pleasant
25. Peculiarity
28. Env. notation
30. Sea swallow
31. Mass
36. Michael Collins actor
37. Paint oil
39. Was in session
40. Foods of the gods
42. Execs note
43. And others, briefly
44. Film comedian and director
46. Healing plants
49. Hoops
51. Tending to sleep walk
56. Paint layer
57. Gillette razors
58. The Time Machine people
60. 1975 Wimbledon winner
61. Caterpillar rival
62. Appear
63. Fleshy fruit
64. Computer key
65. Icelandic epic `
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
With the days getting hotter and work piling up, you might 
be a little down. Go ahead and wallow. Theres nothing 
more comforting than a good pity party with a bucket of ice 
cream. 
taurus
april 20may 20
If youre feeling a little slow today, dont let it get you down. 
Maybe the rest of the world is just in too darn much of a 
hurry. Jerks. 
gemini
may 21june 21
In the business, downtime is pretty hard to come by. So 
today, you might want to think about how you use yours. 
Sure, it might sound good to sit around stuffing yourself 
with handfuls of Crunch n Munch, but that only feeds your 
mouth. What about your soul?
cancer
june 22july 22
Its Monday, so you feel like you just want to relax and 
procrastinate a little on things. Its fine. Fall back on the soft 
grass. 
leo
july 23aug. 22 
You have a lot on your mind today. The thoughts spinning 
around in your head might feel really important and heavy. 
Truth is, theyre probably not. So you might as well think 
about something else, like how cute baby hedgehogs are.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Your intellectual prowess can easily intimidate others, which 
is normally a-okay. But today, you might want to turn it 
down some. You know, for the little people. 
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Abraham Lincoln once said, Better to remain silent and be 
thought a fool than to speak out and remove all doubt. But 
not today. Go ahead and say whatevers on your mind. Im 
sure were all dying to know. 
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
You know that thing I told you to do last week? Do it again. 
And maybe tomorrow too. 
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Its amazing what you can see and hear when you keep a 
low profile, and thats the kind of stuff that can come in very 
handy in the future. If you know what I mean. 
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Im assuming your food doesnt taste all that great. So 
today, try keeping it out of your mouth. 
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
I know that your day isnt going so well, but look on the 
bright side. There are worse fates. Besides, only babies 
throw tantrums. And you dont want to be a baby, do you? 
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Watch out for the critters today. The weather might look 
nice, but dont be fooled. If you sit under a tree and a bird 
poops on your head, dont say I didnt warn you.
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 04.21.1411
TUESDAY 4.22.14
Andrew Heath, Trumpet. Kresge Theatre, CFA. 8 p.m.
Junior trumpet performance major Andrew Heath will 
present a recital of exclusively 20th-Century French 
trumpet music. This event is free and open to the public.
David Joselit. Kresge Theatre, CFA. 5 p.m.
Carnegie professor of the history of art at Yale University 
David Joselit, who has worked on pivotal moments in 
modern art, will be giving a lecture. Admission is free and 
open to the public.
WEDNESDAY 4.23.14
Carnegie Mellon University Philharmonic. Carnegie 
Music Hall. 8 p.m.
The Philharmonic will perform Glinkas Ruslan and 
Ludmila Overture, Szymanowskis Violin Concerto No. 1 
and many other pieces. Tickets are $5, but admission is 
free with valid Carnegie Mellon ID.
Carnegie Mellon University Guitar Ensemble. Mellon 
Institute Auditorium. 8 p.m.
The Guitar Ensemble will perform several arrangements of 
early 20th-century pop songs, modern classical pieces, 
and an arrangement of Vivaldis Concerto in G minor, RV 
85. This event is free and open to the public.
THURSDAY 4.24.14
Hybrid Art Show Opening Reception. 5139 Penn Ave. 
6 p.m.
This group exhibition led by 2014 Kraus Visiting Professor 
of Art Suzanne Wright explores various concepts, 
materials, and processes used in contemporary visual art, 
breaking boundaries between mediums in order to invent 
new hybrid art forms. Admission is free and open to the 
public.
Poetry Slam. Kelly Strayhorn Theater. 7:30 p.m.
Anyone interested in reading may attend the event and 
perform a three-minute poem that keeps with the theme 
of the need to create communities that are built on 
inclusion, diversity, and fairness and free of discrimination 
and intolerance; and embracing citizen-driven change. 
Cash prizes will be awarded for ?rst, second, and third 
place. Admission is free and open to the public.
FRIDAY 4.25.14
Jieun Hwang, Piano. Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8:30 
p.m.
Master of music in music education student Jieun Hwang 
will present a lecture and recital on how music and 
movement relate to each other and how improvisation 
could be applied to this relationship. This event is free and 
open to the public.
Philip Glass. Kresge Theatre, CFA. 1 p.m.
The famed composer will be engaging in a conversation 
regarding his music with Carnegie Mellon assistant 
professor of music theory Richard Randall. The Matisse 
String Quartet will be performing Glasss String Quartet 
No. 5. Tickets are required and sold out as of this 
printing. A waitlist is available at www.music.cmu.edu.
Mozart Festival. Heinz Hall. 8 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will present a 
night of famed composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozarts 
essential works. Performances continue through Sunday, 
with tickets starting at $26. More information can be 
found at trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
Gallery Crawl. Cultural District. 5 p.m.
This quarterly event invites attendees to freely browse 
Pittsburghs cultural offerings at their own pace. Multiple 
galleries will be holding opening or special exhibitions, 
and attendees are free to start anywhere. This event is 
free and open to the public.
SATURDAY 4.26.14
Arts Greenhouse Concert/Cookout. CFA. 1 p.m.
The students of the Arts Greenhouse program will be 
performing original music created within the program. 
They will also screen a documentary about the project 
created by students. This event is free and open to the 
public.
One Night In Beijing. Rangos Ballroom. 7:30 p.m.
The Awareness of Roots in Chinese Culture club presents 
a night of displays of talent and culture. Tickets are $8 
presale and can be purchased in the University Center. 
They will be $10 at the door, with $12 VIP tickets available 
as well.
SUNDAY 4.27.14
Gail Novak Mosites, Soprano. Mellon Institute 
Auditorium. 2 p.m.
Graduate student in vocal performance Gail Mosites will 
perform a recital featuring works by Mozart, Britten, and 
Chausson. This event is free and open to the public.
OPENING
Digital Hand. 709 Penn Gallery. Through May 25.
This exhibition includes works created by Pennsylvania 
State University students exploring the sculptural 
possibilities of digital fabrications. Admission is free.
Electri?ed. Wood Street Galleries. Through June 22.
Artists Edwin van der Heide and Alexandre Burton 
pay homage to the work of Nikola Tesla and his 
pioneering experiments in electricity, X-rays, and wireless 
communication in two installations seeing their North 
American premiere. Admission is free.
The Occasional Market. 707 Penn Gallery. Through 
June 22.
This art project by artist Tom Sarver turns the 707 
Gallery into a communal gathering space, a place where 
stories are told and relationships established, featuring 
unscheduled activities and drop-ins from the artist himself 
and various drawings, sculptures, and collections of 
objects. Admission is free.
Compiled by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

12gallery
pillbox 04.21.14
Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Singer/songwriter Jeff Miller gave a free performance in Skibo Caf 
last Wednesday, presented by the Activities Board. The Nashville 
native sang a collection of country-inspired tunes and used looping 
pedals to give the impression that he was backed by fellow musicians.
jeff miller.
