Vol. VI. No. 18Vol.FebF rFua.buoy BuaAAySE Lb,,S19leaE Lo2February 15, 1912
BASEBALL, 1912.LOSTTHE TECH BABY!
Search Begun to Find the Heir to a 
Unique Skibo Title.
Fame and Good Times in Store for 
This Missing Carnegie 
Celebrity.
Listen to the story of a baby whose 
name, age and sex are unsolved mys
teries, and whose present whereabouts 
is a matter of much concern to sev
eral thousand interested parties.
It happened in this fashion. A Tar
tan representative was accosted yes
terday in one of our halls of learning 
by a certain well-known individual at 
Tech, whose identity, according to the 
unwritten law of journalism, is not to 
be disclosed. His countenance bespoke 
much solemn anxiety, albeit there was 
at times the merest trace of a twinkle 
in his eye. He made the alarming 
statement that a baby had been lost, 
and would the Tartan undertake to 
assist him in the search? The Tartan 
most assuredly would, instanter.
This baby, said the Nameless In
dividual, is absolutely lost as any
thing ever was in this world, but lost, 
you understand, in the sense that it 
never has been found. It is the origi
nal Tech Baby I mean, and it is 
our bounden duty to locate it. The 
historical records of the institution de
mand this. Therell be class babies 
without number as the years roll on, 
there are, Ill warrant, two or three 
kindergartens full of them now, but 
there will never be but one Tech 
Baby, the first one born of any mem
ber of the Class of 1908, the first class 
that was graduated by the Schools. 
The marriage of that member must 
have occurred after he got his sheep
skin. You catch my points?
The Tartan editor nodded his head.
"That youngster, continued the In
terested One, is alive somewhere at 
this very moment, and utterly obliv
ious of the fame that is about to be 
his. Think of the good times in store 
for him. Why, he would be a star 
attraction at alumni reunions, an ideal 
mascot for athletic contests, and the 
like. Last year when I went back 
for the sixth round-up of my class we 
had our class baby there, a husky lit
tle shaver of five. Four hundred of 
us drew him in a decorated express 
wagon around the campus in the pro
cession at the Class Day exercises. 
We took him down the harbor for 
the Field Day events, ran him around 
the bases just before the Yale game, 
escorted him to the crew races at New 
London, and wound up by having him 
make a little speech at the final ban
quet. He was the best part of the 
whole show. I daresay his mother: was 
in seventeen fits all that week, but she 
neednt have been; he had over four 
hundred loyal and devoted nursemaids 
(Continued on Page 6)
SOPHOMORE COMPETITION 
FOR TARTAN STAFF PO
SITIONS.
A Call for Candidates.
A competition for staff positions on 
The Tartan will be opened to all 
members of the Sophomore classes 
on Friday, February 16th. From the 
candidates who enter there will be 
picked two men to go on the staff 
of The Tartan. The competition will 
be closed on Friday, March 29th, at 
which time the final selections will 
be made. Since the amount of mate
rial turned in by the candidate will 
be one of the factors considered in 
the making of the selections, it is 
urged that all those desiring to enter 
this competition do so at once.
The competition is open to mem
bers of the Sophomore class of the 
four schools. In the picking of the 
men for the positions, the amount 
and the quality of the material turned 
in will be the two main factors con
sidered. The candidates will be ex
pected to turn in each week such news 
items as they are able to gather 
themselves, together with the assign
ments given them to cover. An ex
act record of the items turned in 
by each candidate will be kept. In 
order to register in this competition 
it will be necessary to speak to the 
Editor, either making an appoint
ment or going to The Tartan of
fice in the Committee Room in the 
Science Bldg. on Thursdays between 
twelve and one oclock or between 
five and five-thirty. To make an ap
pointment, drop a card in any of the 
Tartan boxes, giving name, school, 
and address at which you can be 
reached by letter.
There are many men in this insti
tution who are capable of doing work 
along these lines, but the chief diffi
culty has been to get hold of them. 
There are many more who, while 
they may never have had any actual 
experience in this sort of work, can 
be developed in good men. It is 
the hope of The Tartan that all of 
those who have had any experience 
or who have any desire or inclina
tion towards this form of student ac
tivity will enter the competition. 
Again let us urge that the prospective 
candidates make themselves known 
at once. Time counts and those en
tering first have an advantage of the 
late-comers in that they have a longer 
time in which to work and bring up 
their total amount of material.
A Distinction.
So the bank teller has disappeared. 
Was he short in cash?
No, he was ahead. It was the bank 
that was short.Boston Transcript.
WHITE FRIAR MEETING 
CALLED FOR FEBRUARY 20
All Members Urged To Be Present
Plans for Season To Be Discussed.
A meeting of the White Friars has 
been called for the evening of Tues
day, February 20th, at 8:00 oclock 
sharp in Room 104 Industries. This 
will be a very important meeting, and 
all are urged to attend. At this meet
ing will probably be settled whether
onot the Friars are going to proc'.iice a play this season, or whether 
thev will pass quietly out of existence. 
There has been considerable inter
est and talk during the past few 
months about this once flourishing 
organization, and it is the hope of the 
officers of the old club that enough 
of this interest will materialize to 
make the staging of a play possible 
this year. They realize that the fact 
of the spending of last season in idle
ness is going to make the problem 
of working up a new show all the 
more difficult, but they nevertheless 
are sanguine as to the outcome. Every
thing, as stated before, depends upon 
the turnout at this meeting. Post 
cards have been sent to all the mem
bers whose addresses are known, noti
fying them of the meeting and, should 
they fail to respond, those interested 
in the attempt to put life into the 
Friars will drop the matter for all 
time.---------o---------
MUSICAL CLUBS BUSY WEEK.
Last week kept the members of the 
Musical Clubs hustling. On Tuesday 
night a concert was given in the High
land Theatre, East Liberty, for the 
Business Mens Association, and was 
well received by a standing room only 
audience. Following this concert a 
number of the men were entertained 
at the Eatchelors Club.
Friday night found the Tech men 
in Pitcairn where an appreciative au
dience indicated their approval by 
continuous applause for encores. The 
Newsboys Home was visited on Sat
urday night and again all numbers 
were applauded, this time by stamp
ing of feet, clapping and whistling 
that made the windows rattle. The 
youngsters certainly know popular 
music as evinced by the way in 
which they joined in on You Beauti
ful Doll, etc.
DONT FORGET THAT THE 
HOME CONCERT IS ON MARCH 
7th WITH A DANCE AFTER IN 
THE SCHENLEY BALL ROOM.
---------o---------
Americans Beware.
Unscrupulous Picture-DealerSh-h. This is the left eye of Leonar
dos Monna Lisa. You can have it 
for $500.Punch.
Schedule Announced.
Prospects for the years baseball 
are fine.
Manager Manker has worked like 
a Trojan and emerged from innumer
able calculations with a smiling face 
and a magnificent schedule.
Most of last years infield have been 
observed around the schools furtively 
batting imaginary home-runs and run
ning up strikes one, two, three, with 
beautiful regularity. With such pros
pects it looks as though Captain Vail 
would have his hands full with pros
pective leaguers on Saturday, the 17th.
Of last years twirlers we have 
Chick Morehead, Brown and Grotefend, each one eager to outstar Marty 
OToole, Gearhart still holds the po
sition of the immortal Hans. Bill 
Morehead, Blanchard, Humphreys, 
Acheson, Bingler, Wehr, Brine, Raisig, Kesselman, Fulmerthe veterans 
are all with us ready to do their duty 
by their alma mater. Everything 
points to a big aggregation of new 
men to take up the bat for the old 
school. Everyone who will work 
faithfully and honestly to help the 
team to the top of the ladder will find 
a hearty welcome.
These men will come out to stay. 
They will stick through victory and 
defeat, though, if every man gives his 
brawn and brain theres not going to 
be much of the latter.
Seriously speaking, we mean to 
make a fine aggressive team this year 
and win a name for Carnegie Tech 
that will stay with her. Every one 
of you can help. If you can't possibly 
come out for the team, youll be there 
to cheer them up with the Long Car
negie and spur them on with your 
hearty support.
This is a hard year; it starts early, 
we have strong teams to face. We 
need the best material in the school. 
It means earnest work and loyal dis
cipline, but you will have the greatest 
reward the school can givethe cov
eted C. Its worth it, and best of all, 
it helps Carnegie Tech who has never 
failed you yet and never will.
The first practice will be Saturday, 
the 17th, at 10:00 A. M., in the gym. 
Dont hand in the Junior Prom as 
an excuse; we must have you. Let 
the first practice present the finest 
line-up the school has ever had and 
let that line-up run through the year 
without a break.
Were going to beat W. & J., State, 
Pitteverybody if you are on the dia
mond to win and thats the only way 
Tech plays.
Remember, Saturday, the 17th, at 
10:00 A. M., at the Gym. Every
one out, everyone with his heart in 
the game and there to stay.
Coach McCullough has not defin(Continued on Page 5)

---------------------------------------------------

9THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published weekly by the Under
graduates of the Carnegie Technical 
Schools, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
Business communications should be 
addressed to the VI.No1.. 85o5,192 
all articles and other communications 
should be sent to the LiNst9enoehrN1y
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.00 5c per Copy
PITTSBURGH, PA., FEB. 15, 1912.
Donald D. Mitchell - Editor-in-Chief
D. W. Wait - - - Business Manager 
Guy Kelcey - Asst. Business Mgr. 
W. H. Buente - - Exchange Editor 
C. B. Kline - - - Athletic Editor
E. E. Duff, Jr., Asst. Athletic Editor 
Albert E. Ball, Science Associate Ed. 
George A. Hays
Industries Associate Editor 
Eugene Dowling - Alumni Editor 
A. H. Good, Design Associate Editor 
Dorothy Savage - - - - -
M. M. C. S. Associate Editor
The Tartan, on behalf of the entire 
student-body of the Carnegie Tech
nical Schools, desires to congratulate 
Mr. McConway upon the attaining of 
his 70th birthday and to wish him 
many happy returns of the day. In 
Mr. McConway this institution has 
one of its staunchest friends and in 
his continued good fortunes we take 
the greatest pleasure.
-o
THE SENIOR ISSUE.
The Tartan desires to here publicly 
congratulate the members of the 
Senior Classes in the manner in which 
they handled their issue last week. 
We also trust that the precedent thus 
formed will be handed down to the 
Senior Classes of the future.
o
THE SOPHOMORE COMPE
TITION.
As announced elsewhere in this is
sue, we have opened a competition 
to members of the Sophomore Classes 
for staff positions on this paper. We 
are in hopes that this contest will 
prove a spirited one, and that some 
available material will come to light. 
The mere lack of experience should 
not detain a man from entering. We 
will see to it that all who enter ob
tain the required amount before the 
contest closes. We also wish to urge 
all of those desiring to enter to 
promptly signify their intention of so 
doing, as the time will be limited and 
those entering first have the advan
tage over those who enter later.
THE WHITE FRIARS.
As announced elsewhere in this is
sue, the officers of the old White Friar 
organization are making the attempt 
to inject enough life into the club to 
have it reorganize and produce a play 
this season. The fact that nothing
w'as done with the Friars last season 
makes the matter all the more diffi
cult. We have seen evidences of a 
considerable interest during the past 
few weeks in the affairs of this or
ganization, both on the part of the 
old members and by those who would 
like to see the Friars fulfill their nat
ural functions and produce a play dur
ing the coming season. It is the sin
cere hope of The Tartan that, at the 
meeting so shortly to be held, there 
will be such a turn out as to make 
this practicaule. We should not like 
to see another year pass without the 
giving of a play and if the White 
Friars have not got it in them to 
"come back, we would like to see 
some new organization spring up and 
take the place they formerly held.
o
THE REASON.
During Inspection Week the Senior 
Chemists went to Buffalo. While there 
they came upon an old Carnegie man 
working for one of the companies 
whose plant they inspected. In writ
ing up an account of the trip for The 
Tartan, one of the Seniors mentioned 
that this graduate complained of not 
seeing enough Alumni news in the 
columns of Carnegies paper. We 
agfee with him. He is absolutel} 
right. There has not been in the past 
nearly enough news of the doings of 
the Alumni in The Tartan. That was 
not the fault of the staff of The Tar
tan, but rather due to the fact that, 
up to the recent Alumni smoker held 
at the Fort Pitt Hotel, there was no 
regular means of obtaining any infor
mation concerning the Alumni. All 
the news published, and it was every 
bit obtainable, came either from the 
Secretarys office or from individual 
members of the Alumni who hap
pened to be around the buildings. The 
Secretarys office has no regular means 
of gathering such items and it was 
therefore natural that the yield should 
be poor. That is the explanation for 
the dearth of Alumni news in the past. 
For the future we can say that at the 
smoker held at the Fort Pitt Hotel 
on the evening of January 20th, the 
association appointed from among 
its members a committee to see that 
The Tartan was regularly supplied 
with news of interest to the Alumni, 
the chairman of this committee going 
on the staff * -mini Editor. We 
trust that in the future Alumni will 
have no caus to complain that they 
are slighted.
o
A HERO COMES TO LIGHT.
One effect of that ruling of the Fac
ulty concerning tardiness which was 
placed on the statute books about two 
months ago has been to develop to 
a truly remarkable extent the imagina
tions of those members of the stu
dent-body who have the charming 
abit of being late. As long as it was 
possible to be late and not have a cut 
chalked up against one, the aforesaid 
members-with-the-charming-habit - of 
>e'ng-late haa no more cause to ex
ercise strenuously their powers of 
imagination than they did their pedal 
extremities. And they did not. Now 
all is changed by that awful rule and 
not only are we made to be on time
but, when unfortunate to be late, 
We are made to fill an excuse to the 
entire satisfaction of all persons in 
the office of the Dean, including the 
boy who takes in the mail. While, to 
fill out an excuse under such condi
tions calls for a considerable expense 
of grey matter, almost as muchas is 
expended in making a proper selec
tion of beans at The Beanery, it is 
proving wonderfully efficient as a de
veloper of imaginations. The results 
are truly astonishing. Unless this rul
ing is wiped out, this institution will 
soon cease to turn out engineers and 
begin producing persons equipped to 
write that great American Novel, 
about which we hear so much.
Many interesting facts are brought 
to light by this self same rule. It was 
proven conclusively the other day that 
there still remains in this world at 
least one person who places the doing 
of a courteous act above the call of 
duty; who willingly denies himself the 
pleasure of being on time in order that 
he may go to the rescue of the fair 
sex. Perhaps the most remarkable 
feature of it all is that he is not afraid 
to take his candle from withunder his 
bushel and place it in such a position 
that it may be seen by those in the 
office of the Dean. As he himself 
has told us, Had to be gallant to a 
young lady in helping her to cross an 
icy bridge. Would not have missed 
my car had I not walked so slow. 
Standing there, plain and unadorned, 
it gives us much pleasure to think 
that such a statement was uttered by 
a gentleman in our midst'. That it is 
the statement of a true hero is undisputable, for who else would have dared 
send such an excuse to the Captain of 
Our Ship.
What interests us most is, however, 
was it accepted?---------o---------
THISTLES MUST BE ORDERED 
TODAY.
Quite a few people have the idea 
that they can buy a Thistle any time 
before school is dismissed. That is 
wrongabsolutely wrong. Copies of 
the 1912 Thistle must be ordered this 
week, so that the Thistle Board may 
know just how many books to order, 
and what the receipts will amount to.
Do not be small enough to wait 
until the Thistle is issued, then look 
over somebody elses shoulder to read 
it, but get your own, and remember, it 
must be ordered today or Friday.
---------------o---------------
THISTLE MATERIAL MUST BE 
TURNED IN.
The material for the 1912 Thistle 
has been coming in slowly, but surely, 
yet there is still a few classes and or
ganizations who have neglected to 
hand in any material of any nature. 
You would be angry, sore, cross, pee
vish, mad, verymad, if your class, 
or club was not mentioned in the 
Thistle. It will not be the fault of 
the Thistle Board, it will be your 
fault. See your historian or repre
sentative, and remind him that you 
are interested. It must be in the 
Thistle Box Friday morning.
TURKEY RIOT AT CORNELL.
University Paper Cautions Students 
Against Using It at Dance.
Cornell students who have been 
taking priyate lessons at the dancing 
academies in the turkey trot, griz
zly bear, bunny hug and other evo
lutions of the latest dance craze, in 
the expectation that they could in
dulge them at the sophomore cotillion 
and the junior promenade, the two 
principal dances at Cornell, will likely 
find they have wasted their time and 
money as the result of an editorial 
warning sounded by the Cornell Sun.
The editorial intimated that persons 
in authority in the university have 
heard reports that efforts would be 
made by a few students to execute 
these dances and apparently is given 
as a veiled warning. The Sun urged 
all students to give heed to the repu
tation of the university and forbear 
trying to indulge in these dances.
The Sun said:
Let us consider how we shall up
hold Cornells name, specifically the 
manner of our dancing. Very likely 
worrying is a bit premature, but the 
university authorities have some fear 
lest here and there will be the Cornellian a trifle careless of the repu
tation which he wishes his university 
to hold around the country when 
these few hundred guests scatter next 
Sunday.
Outgrowths of sailors brawls on 
the Pacific coast, the Grizzly Bear 
and the Turkey Trot, with all the 
little cousins, Bunny Hug, Shiver, 
Pickaninny Crawl or what not, have 
come East to be denounced by dance 
hall authorities and all others inter
ested in the morals of the youth of 
the land. Here and there some of 
these folk, who pass under the gen
eral head Society, have given the 
dance their official recognition. The 
hope is earnest that the men of Cor
nell may not see fit to place their 
stamp of approval thereon.
---------------o---------------
LIST OF THE THURSDAY 
MORNING LECTURERS
Below is given the list of the lec
turers and their subjects scheduled 
for the popular Thursday morning 
lecture course. All of the 'dates are 
not definitely fixed as yet, but judging 
by those already on the list, the course 
promises to prove even more inter
esting than the one of a year ago.
Feb. 15Captain Robinson, The 
Engineering Problems of a Modern 
Battleship.
Feb. 29Mr. Emil Swenson, Con
sulting Engineer.
March 7President Thompson of 
Ohio State University.
Mar. 14Mr. Macbeth, of MacbethEvans Glass Co.
Mar. 21Not definitely settled 
Probably Mr. Crawford of Penn. 
Lines West.
Mar. 28Jno. Williams, represen
tative of Labor Organization, and 
member of Board of Education.
April 4Col. Bope, Vice President 
and General Manager of Carnegie 
Steel Co.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
TO HAVE GRAND ANNIVER
SARY CELEBRATION.
Will Be 125 Years Old on the 28th.
Beginning on Tuesday, February 
27th, our friends on the other side 
of the hill, the students of the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh, will celebrate 
their Alma Maters 125th birthday. 
We congratulate them and wish them 
a cracking good time with their cele
bration.
The morning of the 27th will be 
given over to an educational confer
ence, followed by a luncheon at the 
Hotel Schenley. In the evening an 
historical play entitled, The Vision 
of the She-Who-Knows will be given 
at the Carnegie Hall. On the follow
ing day, Anniversary Day, there will 
be two addresses, one in the morning 
and one in the afternoon, another 
luncheon at the Schenley, a reception 
by Chancellor Samuel Black McCor
mick in the Schenley at 5 P. M., and 
the Alumni Anniversary Banquet in 
the Soldiers and Sailors Memorial 
Hall in the evening. Thursday will 
be given over to conferences of the 
college presidents of Pennsylvania 
and of the secondary schools of West
ern Pennsylvania. The day will be 
broken by a luncheon at the Pitts
burgh Athletic Associations club 
house and will be followed in the 
evening by an entertainment in the 
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall 
to be given by the musical and dra
matic clubs.
The University was founded as The 
Pittsburgh Academy, obtaining its 
charter on February 28, 1787. In 1819 
it was changed to The Western Uni
versity of Pennsylvania, the university 
proper, however, not coming until the 
addition of the Engineering and Pro
fessional schools to the college in 
1892. In the year of 1908 the name 
was changed to The University of 
Pittsburgh and shortly after was 
moved to its new location in Schenley 
Farms.
THE XI SIGMA UPSILON 
HOUSE PARTY.
The week-end house party at the 
Xi Sigma Upsilon house, 311 McKee 
Place, ended successfully Sunday eve
ning, February 12. Eight girls were 
entertained at the house for the three 
days, beginning Friday at noon, and 
were chaperoned by Miss Allen, Ambridge, Pa., Mrs. Gay Hamilton, Ont., 
and Mrs. Good, Akron, Ohio. The 
entertainment of the visitors embrac
ed the third annual dance of the fra
ternity on Friday evening, a theatre 
party at the Grand for the matinee 
Saturday, and an informal dinner to 
twenty couples at the fraternity 
house, that evening. Individual 
stunts, and kodaks were very much in 
evidence the remainder of the time. 
From dinner at the Fort Pitt Hotel 
Sunday evening, the guests left im
mediately for their trains, terminating 
what is hoped may become an annual 
event.
DEAN AND MRS. CONNELLEY 
GIVE ENJOYABLE RECEP
TION TO MEMBERS 
OF FACULTY.
Affair Held At M. M. C. S.
On the evening of Saturday last, 
Dean and Mrs. Connelley gave a re
ception to the members of the Fac
ulty of the School of Applied Indus
tries and their wives. Assisting Dean 
and Mrs. Connelley in the receiving 
line were Director and Mrs. Hamerschlag. The reception proper was 
held on the lower floor of the M. M. 
C. S. building, which was decorated 
with palms for the occasion. Refresh
ments were served in the dining 
rooms on the third floor. All of the 
refreshments were so selected as to 
carry out the school colors, green 
and white. Later dancing was in
dulged in in the Gym. Altogether it 
was a most delightful affair and was 
enjoyed by about 75 people.
The entertainment of the evening 
consisted of signing by Mrs. Samuel 
R. McClure, Miss Florence Burgoyne 
at the piano, and Mr. Alfred Bartlett, 
and selections on the violin by Mrs. 
Robert B. Leighou assisted at the 
piano by Miss Leoti Reno.
CIVIL INSPECTION TRIP.
This year the inspection trip of the 
Senior Civils were unusually interest
ing, instructive and enjoyable.
Mondays trip about town was 
omitted because of inclement weather.
Tuesdays trip was to Castle Shan
non, Canonsburg and intermediate 
points.
At Castle Shannon the men meas
ured up a dech plate girder, and asked 
the postmaster if he knew Rege Phil
lips. He didnt.  At Tompkinsville 
there was a railway viaduct to meas
ure and Cinderellas slipper, in the 
form of an overshoehidden under 
the station platformto be filled with 
names and addresses. At Canonsburg 
there was the most meager of lunch
es to be had at 35c per; a good half 
hour of smoke and then a candy lot
tery to break.
0_n the afternoon a highway bridge 
was measured up and then a trip made 
through the Fort Pitt Bridge Works.
Wednesday saw these same Sen
iors in McKeesport. The morning 
was spent in the McKeesport Rapid 
Filtration plant. The afternoon in the 
city engineers office listening to a 
lenghty discourse from the chief en
gineer, upon the new system of sew
er now under construction in that up
river city.
Thursday, this aggregation of seek
ers after knowledge congregated in 
the P. R. R. depot at Swissvale, Pa., 
and went from there to visit the 
works of the Union Switch and Sig
nal Company.
Friday came with the last of the 
trips, a visit to the slow filtration 
plant of the City of Pittsburgh in 
Aspinwall. The visit to this modern 
labyrinth or American catacomb, for 
it certainly reminded one of what he 
had read of these, proved a fitting 
close to so profitable a week.
STOEBNERS
THE MAN WITH THE SHOES.
Closing Out all broken lines at a Price 
6227 Penn Avenue EAST END 6222 Frankstown Avenue
LINCOLN NATIONAL BANK
HENRY W. OLIVER BUILDING
The desirability of keeping a Banking account is unquestioned. It helps 
in more ways than you have dreamed of.
_________ RESOURCES. $6,900.000.00 _________
EVERYBODYS PLAYER ROLL DEPT.
For the convenience and service of all player piano owners, we have equipped the largest and best Player Roll Department in the United States. You will find here everything at your convenienceefficient and courteous serviceenormous stock of rollsjust what you wantand five (5) demonstrating parlors to try over your rollswhich means no waiting.
PITTSBURGHS HFST W  FR FHFR I fK PI A NO f 0 WE CLOSE AT 6:GOKQUIPPKU KOL1. UKPT * f fiDUElIVlV^IV I 1 .rt.il W tU. <>M SATURDAY
635-637 SMITHF!ELD STREET
The Rittenhouse
W. R. KUHN CO Highland near Penn E. E.
Finest EquipmentBest Facilties for Banquets  Dinners Danccs HopsReceptions.Low Rates. Get Estimates.
BUTTER, EGGS, 
COFFEE, TEAS, 
POULTRY, ETC.
ALL AT RIGHT PRICES
OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET
3714 FORBES STREET 
Phone 710 Schenly. We Deliver
Every service a bank may 
render its customers is per
formed by
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
Iroquois Block.
Cheerfully, promptly and on 
the best of terms.
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus and Profits $198,500.00
Deposits over $1,300,000.00
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar.P. & A. Phone 952 A
H. A. BECKER,
MUSIC HOUSEEVERYTHING. KNOWN IN MUSIC> Headquarters for Band and OrchestraInstruments, Music and Supplies
No. 601 Ohio Street  c n,, i i d Corner of iddie N. S. Pittsburgh, ra.
0. C. HENRY
FIFTH AVEXlB
THEMEANWI S O
We make a specialty of School Groups, Class 
and Fraternity Pictures 
Prices the lowest and work the best
W. S. BROWN
Wood Street and Oliver Avenue 
PITTSBURGH, PENNA. 
Cutlery, Athletic and Sporting Goods
THE THISTLE BOARD
will have to buy their own books 
unless they attend 80 per cent, of the 
meetings. No deadheads this year.
A. C. G1ES 
Jeweler and Optician
6260 Frankstown Avenue 
EAST END., PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Bell Phone 1373 Highland
HOLIDAY DELICACIES
Plum Pudding, Mince Meat, Mince 
Pies, Cluster Raisins, Malaga Grapes, 
Pulled Figs Etc.
GEO. K. STEVENSON & CO.
606 Wood St. Highland and Centre Ave. E. E.
GIVE CANDY
BUY IT AT
HALLERS
IN THE IROQUOIS BLOCK
Special Rates to Tech Students. Dress Suit Rental Co. 522 Pittsburgh Life Building.
On the Trail.
Does your fiance know your age, 
Lotta?
Your Pride in Carnegie
will not let February 15th go by with\Vell_partly.Fliegende Blatter, out getting a Thistle subscription.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTANrNEXT WEEK IN *
THE THEATERS
ALVIN"The Bohemian Girl will 
be sung by the Abom English Opera 
Company. The production is spectac
ular rather than efficiently vocal.
NIXONGypsy Love, a Vienese 
opera by Franz Lehan. Music is said 
to be very delightful.
DUQUESNE  A comedy, The 
Lottery Man never before seen in 
Pittsburgh will be played by the Stock 
Company. Very funny.
GRANDWilliam Rock and Maud 
Fulton in an elaborate dancing act, 
will head the Grand vaudeville bill.
LYCEUMNorman Halkett, a very 
capable young man, will be seen in 
a dramatization of Hallie Rives novel, 
Satan Sanderson.
40 STEVENS SOPHS OUT.
THURSDAY MORNING
LECTURE
Forty sophomores in the Stevens 
Institute of Technology in Hoboken 
have been suspended for hazing. The 
incidents which led up to the suspen
sions occurred early on last Thurs
day morning. President Alexander 
C. Humphreys of the institute arrived 
home 011 Thursday from Panama. He 
ordered the suspension of all who 
were implicated in the affair. Three 
men were suspended 011 that day and 
thirty-seven more the day following.
The sophomore class held a dinner 
in Manhattan 011 Wednesday night. 
On their way back to Hoboken early 
the next morning it occurred to some 
of the diners to look up some fresh
men. One of the first stops was made 
at the Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity 
house. One of the party having en
tree to the house let the others in and 
a search was made for freshmen. The 
latter took refuge in one of the bed
rooms and barricaded the door. The 
door was broken down and the fresh
men were dragged out and put through 
their places.
After dropping in at several fratern
ity houses and other places where 
freshmen are wont to sleep the invad
ing, party started for the Stevens 
Castle, which the Stevens family not 
long ago turned over to the institute 
and which is now used as a dormitory. 
Here a sophomore living in the build
ing led the way. The caretaker, 
Phelps, was thrown out summarily, 
and locked out. The freshmen took 
refuge together in one room and tried 
to resist, but the door was broken 
down and dragged out. One of the 
incidents of the visit was the tossing 
of two of the freshmen into a bath
tub, pajamas and all.
There has been little hazing heard 
of at Stevens since the fall of 1902, 
the first year of Dr. Humphreys pres
idency. In that fall two or three men 
were detected and dismissed. At the 
opening of each year since then Presi
dent Humphreys has announced that 
no hazing would be tolerated. In view 
of the dismissal of the students in
volved in the hazing cases of 1902 the 
student body does not regard the po
sition of the forty men now under 
suspension as enviable.
The first of the weekly lectures 
called for on the new schedule, which 
have been looked forward to with 
keen anticipation by all the Science 
men, was delivered last Thursday 
morning in No. 209. Preceding the 
lecture, Mr. McDowell lead in sev
eral of the school songs, starting off 
with Hail, Carnegie. Dr. Hamerschlag introduced the speaker, Capt. 
Robinson of the U. S. Nayy, gradu
ate of Annapolis and of the Univer
sity of Glasgow, whole subject was, 
The Construction of a Battleship.
His speech was a general talk on 
warships in general, the different 
kinds and their construction, and the 
progress that has been made in their 
design. The part concerning the sub
marines was especially interesting, 
ii.e entire lecture was illustrated by 
lantern slides, showing the different 
types of vessels and their parts, es
pecial attention being paid to the guns 
and methods of hurling the torpedoes.
To make the lecture more interest
ing, a model of one of our battle
ships, the North Dakota, had been 
brought from Washington at consid
erable trouble and expense, and was 
exhibited to give a better idea of pro
portions. The model was some 12 or 
15 feet long and about two feet wide, 
enclosed in glass, and showing all the 
details of construction of the big ship.
To say that the lecture was appre
ciated by the students would be put
ting it mildly, as a number of the 
architects availed themselves of the 
opportunity to hear the talk. Next 
week Capt. Robinson will again lecture 
along the same general lines, but go
ing more into detail concerning the 
engineering problems connected with 
the building of a battleship.---------o---------
M. M. C. S. ALUMNI MEET, HEAR 
LECTURE AND GIVE TEA.
True ValuesB&BTrue Values
A first class Dress Suit-fine fabric, well tailored, correct style, perfect fitting-just as good appearing 
a Suit as any man need care for-and the price no more than a fine business Suit, $38.00.Correct Silk and Opera Hats for young men, $6.00 and $8.00.
NORTH SIDE,BOGGS fe BUHL,
FITTSHURGH, I*A..
We have been fitting feet for over Forty years
P. LUDEBUEHL & SONPenn & Frankstown Avenue,  East End.
mj/ >1^W FOR YOUNG MEN
'11V OUR SPECIALTYFOUR NEW LASTS THIS SEASON 
KISMETCOSMOCORNELL--DREAM. They are all Winners,Black or Tan. $4 00 and $4.50 the Pair
THE CARNEGIE MEMORY BOOK
Just the thing you have been looking for.
Special accomodations to Fraternities, Clubs and [Groups of Students. For 
further information see LI NC OATBKHAEC Junior Science 
Telephone Schenley 2508 5437 AYLESBORO S T
SATISFACTORY SERVICE SURE
MURDOCH, KERR & CO.
Printers of Programs, Booklets, Catalogs 
Strawberry and Cherry Ways
On the afternoon of Saturday, Feb
ruary 3d, the Alumnae Association of 
M. M. C. S. gave the fifth of the series 
of affairs set forth in their Calendar 
of Monthly Meetings of 1911-12. Mrs. 
v ermorcken gave an instructive and 
very delightful lecture in the assembly 
hall, on the subject, Early Italian 
Painting, illustrated by admirable 
stereoscopic reproduction of the work 
of the Florentine, Umbrian, and Ve
netian mastersGiotto, Cimabue, Fra 
Angelico, Leonardi da Vinci, Botti
celli, Titian, Raphael and others.
After the lecture tea was served in 
the school parlors. The guests of 
honor were Mrs. Hamerschlag, Miss 
West, and Mrs. Vermorcken, all of 
whom are honorary members of the 
Association. Miss Merrill, Class Rep
resentative, 09, was hostess for the 
day. Her aids were, Miss Marion 
Burns, who presided at the tea table, 
and Misses Anna Wells, Margaret 
Sumner, Ella Davis, and Anna Dow
dell. A large number of members 
were in attendance and the occasion 
was very enjoyable.
The Meeting next month will be an 
informal tea, (as a March Tea should.) 
It will be given on the 2d, from 3 to 
5 oclock. Miss Jean Herron is hostess 
for the day.
GOOD
CLOTHES
CHEAPER
CLOTHIERS, TAILORS,
HATTERS, FURNISHERS 
504-506 Federal St., N. S.
GAMMA KAPPA HOUSE PARTY.
Lucky, indeed, are the eligibles 
for it seems that the joys of this week 
are not all going to be confined to 
one night, more properly known as 
the night.
In connection with the Junior Prom 
the Gamma Kappa Club will give its 
annual house party. The guests are 
invited for Thursday afternoon, Feb
ruary the fifteenth, and a dinner dance 
will be held that evening. For the 
following two days a delightful round 
of pleasures has been arranged, con
cluding with a theatre party on Satur
day afternoon.
CHOCOLATES
To your Friends
Sweetest Message
Ever Sent 
239 FIFTH AVENUE 
6022 PENN AVENUE
JOSEPH H. MOORE
PHYSIOLOGICAL VOICE TRAINING
WEDNESDAYS IN 
DALLMEYER RUSSELLS STUDIO 
Cameraphone Building,
Opposite Grand Theatre
Phone 817 Sewickley,
Reference:
Professor W. Trinks, School of Applied Science

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
(Continued from Page 1) 
itely decided on the periods for indoor 
practice, but notices will be posted 
early next week.
Keep your eye on the indicator. 
Schedule.
April.
10Tech vs. Alumnaeat home.
12rOpen.
13Tech vs. Penn Stateaway.
19Tech vs. West Virginia Wesley
anaway.
24Tech vs. Duquesneat home.
27Tech vs. W. & J. away.
May.
1Tech vs. Pittat home.
4Tech vs. Westminsterat home. 
8Tech vs. Duquesneaway.
11Tech vs. Allegheny-^-away.
18Tech vs. Muskingumat home. 
22Tech vs. Duquesneat home.
25Tech vs. Grove Cityaway.
30Tech vs. Alleghenyat home. 
June.
1Tech vs. W. & J.at home.
5Tech vs. Pittaway. 
8Tech vs. Ohio Stateat home.
13Tech vs. Mt. Unionaway.
14Tech vs. Ohio Stateaway.
EXPLOITING YOUNG ENGI
NEERS
Interesting Plan for Increasing Salar
ies of Profession.
In the Engineering News of recent 
date there appeared a communication 
written by Thomas J. Johnston, the 
prominent admiralty and patent law
yer, in which was introduced so novel 
a plan and yet one so admittedly preg
nant with possibilities for exploiting 
young engineers that it secured almost 
immediate attention from the editorial 
desks of New York dailies.
A portion of the original letter fol
lows: The compensation of young
engineers is something that, strictly 
speaking, should be looked into, and 
as far as possible be regulated by an 
association of the deans of the techni
cal schools. I do not hesitate to say 
that in such large engineering enter
prises as the Interborough and the 
Edison, the average professional pay is 
not that accorded to a well paid clerk 
Engineers after several years with a 
corporation are getting $25 a week; 
men of mature years, of good intelli
gence and professional training. Such 
a situation would be impossible if the 
work of the graduates were followed 
up by the deans and corporations were 
given to understand that they could 
not have graduates of Sheff., Tech., 
Cornell and Columbia at any such 
prices. I believe this plan if properly 
presented would have the endorsement 
of the engineering societies and might 
beget a wholesome esprit de corps.
The Engineering News commented 
favorably on this plan, saying editor 
ially: It may be argued to a certain
extent that it is a healthy thing for 
the profession to have brought into 
it a large supply of young men, well 
trained in the fundamentals, and allow 
by a survival-of-the-fittest process 
those who are ablest to come to the 
top and lead. We believe that this 
process has injured the engineering 
profession far more than it has bene 
fited it. The News closed by classi
fying the plan as an idea for a techni
cal trade union. The New York Times 
failed to reconcile the small pay with 
the declaration frequently made by the 
heads of different engineering schools 
that the demand for their graduates 
was far in excess of the supply, and 
adds that "this complaint is an admis
sion that the science of engineering is 
developing so fast, that the young 
men are so much better trained, that 
engineers still in their prime find 
themselves retired. The Times as a 
warning to young men now being edu
cated concludes by quoting President 
Hadleys statement of the need of a 
broader training for specialists, that 
they might not depend too exclusively 
on their specialty for intellectual, so
cial and pecuniary sustenance.
Mr. Johnson particularly resents the 
trade union stigma applied to his 
proposal, and said to a representative 
of the Yale News, from which paper the above extracts are taken, that: It is not an attempt to form a trade 
union. The idea is that deans should 
go against firms that did not treat 
young men fairly, and report to other 
reputable schools the facts, thus pre
venting young men from going there. 
Of course there are corporations that 
do well by their young men, giving 
them fair return in salary and author
ity. I believe that firms that cut men 
down to clerical salaries suffer by it, 
for the young men think more about 
new situations than about their pres
ent positions. The question' is inevi
tably bound up with efficiency. The 
big engineering schools at New Ha
ven, Boston and Ithaca turn out good, 
all-around men. They are not satis
fied with men who think only in mathgentlemen. There is of course no 
doubt that the profession is too 
crowded; too many men become en
gineers. But it is well to remember 
that our engineering work is not what 
it will be in a few years. Conditions 
which prevented industrial expansion 
will pass away, and young men who 
cannot earn now will then earn in 
proportion to their ability and skill. 
The prominence given to mining en
gineering in most of the technical 
schools give rise to a request for Mr. 
Johnstons opinion of it. He said: 
Mining engineering is very full, and 
but few even of the best men make 
money in engineering alone; there are 
opportunities in it, which do not come 
in civil engineering, but at the same 
time an opportunity to reach a com
manding position may be ruined by a 
trivial error. Mining engineering is 
almost a lottery. All the best mining 
engineers have been lucky as well as 
killful. The fraudulent schemes make 
it a hard fieldmore or less of a bamble.
M. M. C. S. HEAR LECTURE BY 
MRS. THOMPSON ON RARE 
LACES.
The M. M. C. S. girls had the pleas
ure of having Mrs. Thompson of this 
city lecture to them on the subject 
of rare laces.
Mrs. Thompson, who has spent 
much of her time in collecting laies 
and thoroughly exhausting the subject 
exhibited, gave a very interesting 
history of each kind.
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS : PITTSBURGH
T
HE Carnegie Technical Schools consist of four 
separate schools, each with its own faculty, buildings 
and student body. The courses of instruction 
offered in these four schools differ widely.
School of Applied ScienceOffers courses in chemical, 
civil, electrical, commercial, mechanical, metallurgical, 
mining and sanitary engineering.
School of Applied DesignOffers courses in architecture, 
interior decoration, illustration and painting, open to both 
men and women.
School of Applied IndustriesOffers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construction, electrical 
equipment and installation, and training for industrial 
teachers. Short courses of eight months are offered in 
machine shop, pattern making, mechanical drawing, 
electric wiring, plumbing, foundry, forging and brick
laying for more mature applicants who have had some ex
perience in these trades.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie SchoolFor women only. 
Offers a regular course embracing two years of general 
training, with particular emphasis on homemaking, 
followed by a year of vocational training in household 
economics, secretarial work, dressmaking, or costume 
illustration and design.
Night CoursesThe four schools offer night courses in 
practically all of the above subjects to provide educational 
opportunities for those who are at work during the day.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ADDRESS REGISTRAR, 
CARNEOTE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS, PITTSBURGH, PA.
BUY NOW 
THE THISTLE
IMPORTANT!
WHITE FRIAR MEETING
ROOM 104 INDUSTRIES
--------------ON--------------
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY SOtii
AT-8 P. M. SHARP
All members requested to turn out since this 
meeting will determine whether or not a play is 
produced this season.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
(Continued from Page 1) 
right there on the job to look after 
him. Yes, sir; theres a great future 
ahead for this baby of ours, if we 
can only put a finger on him.
At this point the Tartan scribe ven
tured to remark he believed it had 
happened once or twice in history that 
all babies were not hims.
So much the better, came the quick 
reply of the Enthusiastic Seeker. If 
its a girl, well love her all the more. 
Man alive, all the fellows in the classes 
graduating around 1930 will be tumb
ling over each other for the great 
honor of marrying this distinguished 
young lady. The Alumni would prob
ably jump at the chance of making a 
gift of the trousseau, or pay the honey
moon expenses, or something of that 
sort. Now, you just run a story about 
this baby in the Tartan, and well see 
what happens. Go after the Alumni; 
theyve got it concealed somewhere. 
And let me know what luck you have. 
All of which explains how the Tar
tan came to undertake this commission 
of the Sherlock Holmes variety.
In view of his very intimate knowl
edge of all Tech affairs from the be
ginning, Director Hamerschlag was, 
naturally, the first one approached for 
enlightment, but for once the Director 
failed us. He smiled broadly at the 
inquiry, although confessing himself 
as eager as anyone to learn the out
come of the search.
Secretary Fields office was next vis
ited, inasmuch as it is a kind of clear
ing house for graduate and undergrad
uate news. The Secretary was inter
ested at once, but acknowledged that 
owing to bachelor days and ways he 
was afraid he v-'1 1> -^elf quite
up-to-date on juvenile matters. But, 
he added, warming up to the subject, 
Ill stand godfather or anything else 
to this very important personage if 
they want me to, and Ill see, further
more, that it is adopted into our Tech 
family with proper style.
An interview with the Registrar fol
lowed. Mr. Tarbells room, we gen
erally find, is a safe and snug anchor
age for a vast collection of Tech sta
tistics, both alive and dead, but its 
occupant, on this occasion, was re
gretfully unable to produce the one 
vital statistic we most wanted. You 
can quote me as saying, however, that 
my gallery of Carnegie celebrities will 
never be complete Until I have that 
babys photograph. Also, you can put 
me down for a big silver, mug, appro
priately engraved.
Further inquiries all along the line 
produced the same result. No one 
had ever heard who was the original 
Tech Baby. Surely, here was cause 
enough for investigation. The Tar
tan, therefore, appeals to its readers 
for assistance. If you who read these 
lines have aught of information that 
will help us trace the missing heir 
to this title, we should appreciate, a 
word from you at once. In the next 
issue we hope to publish news of im
portance concerning this all-absorb
ing topic.
Electrical and Mechanical engineer 
wanted by mining company in South 
Carolina, to take charge of two well 
equipped power plants, transmission 
lines. Will be held responsible for re
pairs to all electrical machinerymine 
motors, cutting machines, etc. Must 
be a man with originality, resourceful
ness and versatility. Salary $200 a 
month.
Openings for graduates as tire in
spectors for Rubber Company in Ohio. 
$75 a month at the start.
Drafting and experimental work on 
air lift for raising sand and water. 
Graduate in mechanical engineering 
with year or two experience required. 
$100 per month.
Position as manual training teacher 
for elementary grades in public school, 
vicinity of Pittsburgh, open to man 
with requisite training. $90 per 
month.
Electrical apprentices  telephone 
work. Wages 18-24c per hour at start.
Vacancies in scientific department of 
government service, Washington, D. 
C. Temporary appointments subject 
to Civil Service examinations after 90 
days. Salary approximately $85 per 
month.
DEAN McGOODWIN GIVES IN
TERESTING TALK TO T. A. C.
In Missouri.
A Belleville merchant has this sign 
on his store-door:
Come in without knocking. Go out 
the same way.Kansas City Jour
nal.
Nearly the entire membership of the 
Tech Architectural Club, together 
with several invited guests and some 
of the members of the faculty, turned 
out on Tuesday evening, February 6th, 
and heard a most interesting address 
by Mr. McGoodwin. He commenced 
oy giving a general summary of his 
trip to Europe last summer, and then 
turned his whole attention to a de
scription of Paris as it would appear 
_o an American architect. He was 
greatly impressed by the many fine 
vistas and long avenues, which always 
terminated in some kind of a monu
ment. Another feature which espe
cially impressed him was the abund
ance of architectural embellishments 
which were everywhere in evidence 
throughout the city. The address was 
made all the more interesting by the 
use of slides, showing many inter
esting views of Paris, illustrating the 
entire lecture. All 'through the talk 
Mr. McGoodwin mingled much use
ful advice to those who might some 
day be able to take a similar trip.
After this interesting address; re
freshments were served, while ques
tions concerning study and travel in 
Europe were showered onto the pro
fessors present. The meeting ad
journed with every one feeling happy; 
and was one of the most successful 
assemblies of the club.
City Office;
631 Penn AvenueEast End Office 
S. Highland Ave. and Baum Street
Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh's Oldest and Largest 
Dyeing and Cleaning Works
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St. Clair and Mellon Streets
HOTEL SCHENLEY
New Special Features
Ritz Carlton Restaurant, Banqueting and Hall Room
VERY LARGE FOYER AND LOUNGE ROOM. PRIVATE ENTRANCE
Balls and Parties of all descriptions catered for 
NEW RATHSKELLER, CAFE AND POOL ROOM
Mellon National Bank
514 Smithfield Street 
409-411 Fifth Avenue
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS 
OF STUDENTS
Capital - - $6,000,000 
Surplus and Profits - $1,500,000
BRACE BROS.
Launderers, Cleaners 
and Dyers
608 Trenton Avenue, Wilkinsburg 
61 02 Penn Avenue. East Liberty
Both Phones
Pittsburgh's Perfect 
Prescription Pharmacy
THE A TWOOD
Cor. Forbes and Atwood Street.
HERMAN H. ADAM
-------DEALER IN-------
FANCY AND STAPLE GROCERIES
405 Dithridge Street 
fjlsctiey Pittsburgh, Pa.Bell Phone 1221-L Schenley P. & A. Phone 6 Park
OAKLAND HAND LAUNDRY
Strictly Hand Work
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID TO 
PRIVATE LAUNDRY
328 ATWOOD STREET
LOUIS G1MM, Proprietor
YOURE NEXT 
TECH SANITARY BARBER SHOP
Harry F. Van Curen, Prop.
Cor. Craig and Forbes Street 
Pittsburgh, - Penna.
Flowers get nearer the heart than candy
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
TWO STORES 
BAUM AND BEATTY STREETS 
PENN AND HIGHLAND AVENUES
Bell 9379 Schenley P. & A. 1661-R Park 
I do all the Tech Boys hauling
Oakland Storage and Transfer Co.
J. C. REMSBERG, Proprietor 
Package and Baggage Transfer 
Mo\ing and General Hauling 
229-231 Atwood Street, PITTSBURGH, PA
Dancing Deportment Aesthetics
McDougall Dancing Academies
Wood Street and Fifth Avenue, Downtown 
4614-16 Forbes Street, Oakland 
Penn and Shady Avenues, East Liberty
SCHENLEY FARM TERRACE1 7 houses nearing completion. Nine sold $1 3.000.00 to $1 7,000.00 complete.
SCHENLEY FARMS COMPANY
1412 Farmers Bank Building Phone Grant 3
Special Rates to Tech Students. Dress Suit Rental Co. 522 Pittsburgh Life Building.
Necessities.
SmithI didnt know you owned 
a motor-car; why these auto goggles? 
SmythMy wife has hatpins.  
Puck.
---------------o------------
Alas!
WiggYoung Sillicus says his 
heart is lacerated.
WaggWhos the lass?Phila
delphia Record.
The old system of using a heated iron and a dirty cloth presses the grime and dirt into your garments. Our sanitary machine steams it all out, and removes permanently the dirt, perspiration, odor and grime. See Shuman the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes St.
Special rates to Tech student. Dress
Suit Rental Co. 522 Pittsburgh Life Building.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
ITEMS OF GENERAL INTEREST.
On request from a group of gradu
ates of various engineering schools, 
Wi.o hold positions in the Carnegie 
Steel Company, a night ciass in roll
ing mill design was started in the 
Mechanical Engineering Department 
at the beginning of the second semes
ter.* * *
Recent visitors include General Sir
.,.ii Baden-Powell of London; 
President Drinker of Lehigh Univer
sity; Mr. Graham Taylor of Chicago; 
Dr. C. J. Atkinson of Toronto/and 
Dr. Edward T. Devine of New York.
Director Hamerschlag addressed 
the Home and School Association of 
Sewickley at Sewickley on Natural 
Aptitude; A Factor in Education, on 
the evening of Friday last. On the 
following evening he spoke on Edu
cational Efficiency to the Tufts Col
lege Alumni Association at the Fort 
Pitt Hotel.* *
The guests to luncheon in The 
House on Thursday last included Gen
eral Sir Robert Baden-Powell, organ
izer -of the Boy Scouts, A. L. 
Yvroughton, also from England, Jo
seph Fawell, Rabbi Levy and W. S. 
McDowell, of the Pittsburgh Boy 
Scouts. Sir Robert later delivered 
an address on The Siege of Mafeking.---------o---------
SIR ROBERT BADEN-POWELL 
ADDRESSES M. M. C. S.
STUDENTS.
Great interest was aroused in the 
Boy Scout movement by an address 
given by Sir Robert Baden-Powell to 
the girls of M. M. C. S. on Thursday, 
February 8.
In his discourse he suggested what 
a splendid thing it would be for thfe 
girls of this country to organize clubs 
and carry out, the plan of the Boy 
Scouts movement by having a place 
suitably fitted for the injured, sick 
or homeless. Anri as th girls who 
undertake the work are taught noth
ing they must know how to cook, sew 
and give first aid to the injured be
fore taking part in the great work.
---------------o---------:-----
SENIOR CHEMISTS TRIP TO 
BUFFALO.
The Buffalo trip extended from 
Wednesday to Sunday evening of in
spection week. The entire senior 
chemical section took the journey with 
Dr. Sill as guide. Three days were 
spent inspecting the various chemical 
manufacturing plants of Buffalo and 
Niagara Falls. The list included 
graphite, carborundum, chlorine,, al
kali, copper refining, paper manufac
turing, storage batteries, liquid air, 
linseed oil, varnish, etc. The PrattLambert Varnish Co. gave a lunch to 
the visitors on Saturday. Nearly 
every company visited did its best to 
make the time spent in its plant agree
able and profitable. The LT. S. Light 
& Heat Co. furnished an automobile. 
The Spencer-Kellog Co. and Lind Air 
Products Co. were especially active. 
At the Acheson Graphite Co., Niag
ara Falls, the party was met by Fritz 
Koethen (Electro-Chem. 08). Mr
Koethen is engaged in research and 
experimental work in both the fac
tory and laboratory. He says he has 
at present more use for his engineer
ing than for his pure chemistry. He 
also wishes to announce that he is 
a standing reception committee foi 
all Carnegie Tech men who visit Buf
falo or the Falls. Koethen complained 
of the lack of alumni news in the Tar
tan, and of the general lack of atten
tion paid to alumni in the, news col
umns.
On Sunday four of the senior chem
ists staid over to visit the Falls and 
were unfortunate enough to witness 
the tragedy in Niagara gorge which 
followed the breaking up of the ice 
bridge. If it had not been for a for
tunate decision to take the trolley ride 
around the gorge in the morning and 
wait until afternoon to go down on 
the ice-bridge, the Pittsburgh papers 
would have had a sensation. As it 
was, the accident entirely marred the 
latter part of the trip.
---------------o---------------
LADIES NIGHT AT WOODLAWN CLUB.
On Thursday evening, February 1, 
the Woodlawn Club had its annual 
Ladies Night with Mr. and Mrs. 
Woelmer as chaperones. The evening 
was spent in playing games and danc
ing and was concluded with the sing
ing of college songs. The party was 
strictly informal.
---------------o---------------
GROVE CITY ROUGHS IT.
Handicapped in a rough game by an 
overwhelming lack of weight and a 
low-ceilinged room, the crippled var
sity lost last Friday nights game to 
Grove City by a score of 41 to 16. The 
game was the roughest of the season 
so far, and the heavier home team j 
had all of the advantage. The gamy 
Pittsburghers stayed in the contest 
throughout and made it anything but 
one-sided. Colvin was our star per
former, while Yahres showed up well 
in his first game. Gibbons was the star 
for Grove City.
The line-up:
Car. Tech16. Grove City41.
Yahres ........... ...F...................... Acher
Williams ..............F................. Gibbons
Colvin ..................C................... .. Black
Heisel ............... G.................... Simons
Kesselman ____G...................... Marks
SubstitutionsHines fr Acher, 
Bastness for Black.
First halfField goalsGibbons 4, 
Acher 2, Black, Simons, Colvin 2 
Yahres, Williams. Foul goalsAcher, 
8 out of 9; Colvin, 4 out of 9. Score
C. T. S., 12; G. C., 24.
Second halfField goalsGibbons
3, Simons, Bastness. Foul goals-Col
vin, 4 out of 7; Acher, 7 out of 8; 
Yahres missed 3. ScoreC .T. S., 4; 
G. C 17.
RefereeDe France.
---------------o---------------
An Acute Attack.
Werent you shy when the judge 
asked you your age in court?
Yes, I was about ten years shy, 
my dear.Life.
Absent-Minded.
I want a dog-collar, please. 
Yesm. What size shirt does he 
wear?Life.
ALLEGHENY ALSO HITS THE 
CRIPPLES.
In a game more closely contested 
than the score would indicate, Alle
gheny College defeated Carnegie Tech 
33 to 11. The first half was very 
much one-sided, Allegheny using su
perior team-work to run up a score 
of 22 to 4, but the Plaid team tight
ened up in the final period and held 
the Meadville collegians to a low 
score.
Hawk was the star performer and 
alone contributed 26 points to our de
feat. In the second half he was held 
to three field goals, the other mem
bers of the team failing to score. The 
referee, Wirtz, was very incompetent, 
calling but one foul for the game, but 
Dummy Marks, acting as umpire, 
saved the game from being a farce.
As in the game of the previous 
night, the Carnegie team showed a 
lack of team-work that was only to 
be ascribed to the absence of so many 
regulars. All of the men played hard, 
however, and made the game very in
teresting. Capt. Williams was th< 
star, with two pretty baskets from 
difficult shots. Kesselman, as usual, 
also played well.
The score:
Allegheny33. Car .Tech11.
Mates ..................F............... Williams
Nichols ................F...................... Yahres
Hawk (Capt.)...C.................... Colvin
Ramsey ..............G....................... Heisel
Graham ..............G............. Kesselman
SubstitutionsHall for Yahres.
First halfField goalsHawk 6, 
Mates 2, Nichols, Williams. Foul 
goalsHawk, 4 out of 6; Colvin, 2 
out of 2. ScoreAllegheny 22; C. T. 
S., 4.
Second halfField goalsHawk 3, 
Williams. Foul goalsHawk, 5 out 
of 9; Colvin, 5 out of 10. ScoreAl
legheny, 11; C. T. S., 7.
RefereeWirtz. UmpireMarks.
--------------o---------------
TWO GOOD GAMES THIS WEEK
Grove City will play the return 
game at the Field House on Thurs
day evening of this week. While they 
rather beat us on their own floor, we 
hope this weeks practice will so im
prove the playing of our team, that, 
coupled with the confidence inspired 
by home conditions, the Plaid five will 
make the game a close one.
On Saturday night the strong Westinghouse five will make their appearance on our floor. The first game of 
the season for both teams was played 
at Wilkinsburg, and resulted in a very 
close contest. Since then both teams 
have improved and an interesting bat
tle is predicted. After the game the 
spectators shall be allowed to indulge 
in a dance, the music to be furnished 
by the Carnegie Tech band.
Athletic relations with the Westinghouse Club are being established 
firmly in all branches of sport. A 
track meet is a fixed event of the near 
future for the two organizations, and 
in other ways courtesies will be ex
changed. Because of these relations, 
the Wilkinsburgers are expected in a 
large body, and the students must 
turn out in force to make an equal 
showing.
BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT.
The basketball games the past week 
brought out a few surprises. The 
faculty team continued its winning 
streak by taking games from Sigma 
Tau and the Woodlawn Club. The 
first game was fast and clean, but the 
faculty had a little better team work, 
and assumed the lead early in the 
game and was not headed.
The game with the Woodlawn Club 
was a battle royal and the faculty 
team showed that they were pretty 
good at mixing it upCoach Ramsdell and Mr. Hobbs being especially 
good at this style of games. The fac
ulty are adding recruits each week 
Mr. Hepburn, of Industry, being the 
latest addition. They hope to put an 
entirely new team in the field soon.
After being trimmed by the faculty, 
Sigma Tau showed good fighting 
spirit and came back and took the T.
A. C. bunch into camp by the tune of 
13 to 8. However, T. A. C. are com
ing strong and will put a good bid 
for honor before the league closes.
The surprise of the week was the 
game of the Design School and the 
Plebe Science, when the former upset 
the lope by defeating the Plebes 15 
to 8. The Plebes could not get going 
and were never dangerous. Keally, 
of Design, played a strong game for 
his team. *
The T. A. C.-Gamma Kappa game 
was a fast and hard fought game 
throughout. T. A. C. scored first but 
could not keep up the good work and
G. K. came from behind and succeed
ed in winning 10 to 4.
Douthett and Savage, of the varsity 
squad, materially strengthened G. K. 
and they ought to be strong contend
ers for the championship.
Results of games and standing of 
teams to date:
Faculty .....................................22
Sigma Tau .............................. 9
Sigma Tau ...............................13
T. A. C...................................... 8
Design ..................................... 8
Science Plebes .......................15
T. A. C.................................... 4
G. K.............................................10
Faculty .....................................13
Woodlawn Club ................... 6
Won. Lost%
Xi Upsilon ............201000
Faculty ....................301000
Plebe Science ....11 .500
Woodlawn Cliib ..11500
11500
Gamma Kappa ...11500
Soph Science ........11500
Sigma Tau ............12333
T. A. C......................12333
02000
Games Scheduled.
Thursday, February 15th
.5:00-5:20PlebeSciencevs.Facculty.
5:20-5:40Soph Science vs. Design. 
5:40-6:00Xi Upsilon vs. Gamma 
Kappa.
Tuesday, February 20th
5:00-5:20Plebe Science vs. Design. 
5:20-5:40Industrial vs. Soph Sci. 
5:40-6:00T. A. C. vs. Woodlawn 
Club.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
Happenings of the Month.
J WHATS WHAT AND HOW. j
Examination week, for the purpose 
of discussion and abuse, may be de
fined as a non-religious festival, dur
ing which all undergraduates ideas, 
inserted openly or surreptitiously, by 
guile or by surgical operation during 
the preceding semester, with much 
ruin and combustion on the part of 
instructors, make their escape from 
the precarious confinement of the un
dergraduate mind, and leave a yearn
ing void. In these waste places th* 
faculty wanders and pokes inquisitive 
fingers with meager result. This con
certed migration of all forms of in
formation, supposed to have been 
thoroughly domesticated fills instruc
tors with pedagogical growing pains, 
and the student with a mild form of 
despair. The latter may even gird 
such adventitious aids as an indulgent 
himself at the eleventh hour with 
providence lends the improvident, and 
pursue these fugitives with frantic im
potence, hoping to recapture at least 
the less agile, by a skillful applica
tion of the salt of belated industry to 
their disappearing tails. He has taken 
but little trouble during the blithsome 
days of football and of teaching 
Plebes to walk Spanish, to ingratiate 
himself or even to make a casual ac
quaintance with these intellectual 
guests so persistently thrust upon 
him, and now when he infrequently 
retakes a vagrant idea, he doesnt 
know whether it belongs to him or 
not.
The theological specialists tell us
that it is the nature of frivolous man 
in general to neglect preparation even 
for the great final exam, and in conse
quence he has to spend his last mo
ments in the manufacture of extem
pore and inartistic excuses with which 
to placate the Recording Angel (the 
Celestial Registrar) if he fails to pass, 
pass.
The retributive hour arrives for the 
putative apostle of midnight oil, and 
in the midst of agonized efforts to sat
isfy the absurd curiosity of his in
structors as to matters it should be 
their business to know already, he 
discovers that his head contains ap
parently only mayonnaise dressing 
and it is not the salad course he it 
taking. It is then that his fancy all 
too lightly turns to thoughts of hold
ing up his fellow pilgrim along wis
doms rocky road for his loose change 
of pertinent facts.
It is a melancholy truth that a large 
proportion of these youths who carry 
on mild flirtation with scientific pro
cesses, known as going through 
school, have no more conscience 
about cribbing than the average 
ciurch has, about selling veriegated 
gold bricks at their so-called 
fairs. Just so the average good 
citizen will evade with a pious 
joy the contribution of the righteous 
nickel to the great and good street 
railway corporation, and is suffused 
with a holy joy for weeks when the 
soulfull railroad misses his fare.
It is a residue of the home-made 
ethics that moved our ancestors, when 
each one had without question a fam
ily tree of his own.
It is feared that the artificial con
science installed by the Faculty in the 
student breast is too often regarded 
as a handicap in his dash for the edu
cational pole.
This pedagogical house-cleaning 
period, during which the intellectual 
bric-a-brac acquired by the perspiring 
victims is somewhat rudely handled, 
the meek and lowly laws of grammat
ical construction are put through fan
tastic evolutions worthy of the news 
columns of a Pittsburgh newspaper, 
and some startingly original contri
butions are made to scientific research.
When specific information on the 
points indicated in the exam is la
mentably absent, the resourceful stu
dent with rare presence of mind, may 
present us a votive offering some such 
choice result of his private research 
as that the melancholy Dane was an 
itinerant preacher, who when inad
vertently swallowed by a whale, spent 
the time of his involuntary confine
ment in exploration of the spacious 
and uncharted interior, until such 
time as leviation found it impossible 
to keep a good man down any longer; 
or that Boyles law had something to 
do with hot air and was probably a 
regulation to limit debate in Con
gress; or that chemical valence wai 
the batting averages of an element. 
It is also a period of curious illusions 
among the patients; that their instruc
tors do not love them any more, and 
that the exam is a malicious perse
cution. Ungentle reader, do you know 
what a stomach tube is? When this 
central station in our gastric subway, 
ceases to be comfortable for passeng
ers, the expert called into consulta
tion, introduces what he calls a test
Whittington & Wade
6002Jenkins
Arcade
Bell Phone I 587 Court
FOR HIRE
Full Dress Suits 
Frock Coats 
T uxedos 
Silk Hats 
White Vests 
Striped Trousers 
Opera Hats
New Place New Suits 
v New Styles
Best Service West of 
New York
breakfast (in reality a covert insult 
to any stomach), and after it has been 
allowed to occupy this apartment for 
an hour or so, the gastronomic en
gineer above referred to, inserts a 
final insult in the form of a long rub
ber tube by the main entrance, and 
withdrawing the pitiful test break
fast, examines it minutely to see what 
the stomach has done to it in the hour 
interval. He is then supposed to know 
what particular form of retribution to 
inflict on the former. Well, in the 
pedagogical world, the examination is 
the stomach-tube.
WHAT SOME PEOPLE ARE DO
ING FOR CARNEGIE TECH.
Possibly some students do not real
ize the amount of work the different 
members of the Thistle Board are do
ing. There are twenty-three mem
bers on the Board, one member leav
ing school shortly after his election, 
and at the past three meetings of the 
Board, nineteen or twenty have been 
present. Meetings of the staff are 
held every second week, and last week 
nine other members attended besides 
the eight who compose the staff. 
There has never been less than 
twelve members present at any meet
ing.
Do you realize just what it has 
meant to give up every Wednesday 
night since November 29 to spend at 
least two hours discussing ways and 
means to make the 1912 Thistle the 
best ever? Would you have done it? 
Would you be willing to cut classes 
every Wednesday night to attend 
Thistle meetings as several of the 
night members have been doing?
Do you realize that not one of the 
Thistle Board was dropped at the 
mid-year examinations, and that only 
one man was put on temporary pro
bation?
Does that show work? Now, what 
have you done?
An Idealist.
Do you love me, darling? she 
coaxed.
-Sweetheart, I love every hair on 
your bureau! he fervently answered. 
Gargoyle.
