/
I
The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 46_____________________ CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1945
Religious Discussion Week 
Opens With Noted Speakers
Spiritual Leaders Conduct Discussion With 
Carnegie Tech Fraternities, Sororities, and Dorms
By now you all are probably very mystified about the signs now posted 
on the campus bulletins concerning AFFMM, Religious Discussion Week, 
and army chaplains. This Religious Discussion Week that Carnegie Tech 
is having is part of a Brotherhood movement now taking place in churches 
and colleges throughout the country. At chapel last week, Rev. Vernon 
Smith gave a preliminary talk on Foundation for Faith. This mornings
CIT Goes South 
American Feb. 24
La Samba, la rhumba, la conga, y 
mucho amigos y amigossi-si!
Yes, on Saturday, February 24, 
after the basketball game, there will 
be a South American Party at This
tle Hall. The admission is free, the 
music is canned, and the party is 
stag or drag; Activities Council is 
extending an invitation to the entire 
student body to attend.
It will be a get-acquainted party 
so dont be bashful. Youll be wel
come with or without to this extra 
special affair with an entire evening 
of surprises in which everyone will 
participate.
The fellows and the girls are en
couraged to go South American in 
their clothing, and sashes, sombereros, mantillas, combs, and 
shawls, will be vogue.
Entertainment will be provided 
for by the Drama department under 
the  direction of Casey Stine. 
Frank Laugeruela, a native of Ha
vana, Cuba, is in charge of decora
tions while Dick Herrmann will 
handle publicity and Mary Roney, 
refreshments and music.
The student body of Juniata Col
lege, our opponents in the after
noons game, will bury the hatchet 
long enough to be our guests at the 
dance.
Here is a wonderful opportunity 
for some of you freshman engineers 
to meet some women and vice-versa. 
Now is the time to use your school 
spirit to advantage (you know what 
we mean) so lets have a big turn
out.
Drs. Mehl & Barrett 
Receive Recognition 
For Technical Work
This week two members of the 
Metals Research Laboratory of Car
negie Tech have been given recogni
tion for their outstanding work in 
certain fields. Dr. Robert Franklin 
Mehl, head of the department of 
metallurgical engineering, is being 
awarded with the sixteenth James 
Douglas Gold Medal.
Dr. Mehl began his work on the 
gamma-ray radiography and on the 
physical metallurgy of the solid 
state while employed at the Naval 
Research Laboratory. He and his as
sociates at the Laboratory and at 
Tech have reported on the outstand
ing research work in a series of 
eighty-five papers covering many 
phases of ferrous and non-ferrous 
metallurgy. Since Dr. Mehl has been 
at Tech, he has gained many honors.
Dr. Barrett, a physicist on the 
staff of the Metals Research Lab
oratory since 1932, will present at 
the 1945 Institute of Metals Division 
lecture, a new rpethod of microscopy 
that he has been developing inten
sively at Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology during the past six months. 
Dr. Barrett is well-known for his 
technical papers and text book and 
his active participation in the affairs 
of the Institute of Metals Division.
Experimental Courses 
For Engineering Dept. 
Begin This Semester
Three experimental courses, one 
on working with men, one on the 
economical analysis of practical 
problems, and one on the back
ground of our technological age, 
started with the February term in 
the college of Engineering. Arrange
ments are now under way to make 
one of the English sections an ex
perimental course which will give 
practice in the special types of writ
ing that the student will use in his 
upper-class courses, scientific and 
engineering as well as social rela
tions and literary.
These experimental courses, 
which will develop mastery of 
fundamental skills through their 
use in concrete cases, are designed 
to be a definite preparation for 
learning, how to serve in society, to 
work effectively with others, and to 
live ones life well from practical 
experience after graduation.
The economic analysis course and 
the course on working with men 
will use the same fundamental 
methods of analysis that are used in 
advanced engineering courses and 
will have the same standards of 
thoroughness and orderly thinking. 
They will teach largely the same 
standards of thoroughness and or
derly thinking. They will teach 
largely through the study of cases 
as a professional engineer would ap
proach them.
While each course will be center
ed around one fundamental intel
lectual discipline, such as history, 
economics, psychology, or English, 
students will learn to analyze prob
lems and situations completely and 
thus carry their work over to allied 
fields.
Under the program of development 
the advanced courses of the junior 
and senior years will be much the 
same as now, but each student will 
be expected to elect one course in 
continued on page 6
This Is Your Goal!
Professor Rosenberg, 
CIT Artist, Featured 
In the March Esquire
Professor Rosenberg of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology and Pitts
burghs best-known artist is featur
ed in the March issue of Esquire. 
Six of his most representative paint
ings are reproduced as examples of 
the luminosity for which his work 
is noted. In the article A Human 
Sort of Artist by Harry Salpeter his 
life and the story of his success are 
told.
Professor Rosenbergs portrayal 
of the ordinary things of life on can
vas has won him great recognition 
in artistic circles. He has won an 
award in every group exhibition of 
the Associated Artists of Pittsburgh 
since 1917. First connected with 
Carnegie Tech as a night student 
under Professor Sparks, while in 
grammar school, his first works 
(plaster cast drawings) were of 
such quality that they have been 
preserved as examples for succes
sive generations of art. Since the 
winning of his first prize, he has 
been identified with the Irene Kauf
man Settlement, where he taught 
for 11 years. For quite a number of 
years he has been teaching drawing 
in the Department of Architecture. 
Recently his pictures have indicated 
a breach from his traditional line of 
the naturalistic to a field of more 
universal and emotional appeal.
chapel speaker, Rev. Stuart, talked 
on the same general topic A Faith 
for Modern Man, the theme for Re
ligious Discussion Week.
Each fraternity, sorority, and dor
mitory dining hall has invited a 
speaker to talk to them and lead 
their discussion. Students who do 
not belong to a fraternity or sorority 
or do not stay in a dormitory are 
specially invited to attend a dinner 
sponsored by the CWCA and the 
YWCA and the YMCA which will 
be held tonight at 6:00 in the Car
negie Union. The speaker at the 
dinner will be Rey. Walter Moser, 
former Lieutenant Colonel in the 
United States Chaplain Corps.
Last night Rev. John Smith of the 
Mount Lebanon United Presbyte
rian Church spoke to the Chi Ome
gas, Rev. Campbell of the Shadyside Presbyterian Church spoke to 
the Delta Gammas, Rev. Brunn of 
St. Andrews Lutheran Church talk
ed to the Tri-Gammas, and Father 
Lucey of Duquesne University 
spoke to the Theta Xis. Wednesday 
evening Rabbi Fierman of the 
Rodef-Shalom congregation will ad
dress the girls in Mellon Hall, Rev. 
Gibson of the Third Presbyterian 
Church will talk in the Carnegie 
Inn, and Rev. Dungan, recently re
turned from Shanghai, will speak in 
Forbes Dining Hall. Also on Wed
nesday Rev. Orr from the Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church will speak to 
the Delta Tau Deltas, and Rev. Paul 
Jones from the Central Christian 
Church will talk with the SAEs. 
On Thursday Rev. Aliver Graebner 
of the Wilkinsburg Lutheran Church 
will speak to the Beta Theta Pis. 
Tau Delta Phi, Beta Sigma Rho, 
and Alpha Ejpsilon Phi will have a 
combined discussion with Rabbi 
Fierman Thursday night. On Friday 
Rev. John Smith will speak to the 
Tri Delts.
On the general committee for 
Religious Discussion Week, are 
Clem McKenna, Pat Delehanty, Lenore DeWall, Dave Jones, and Mr. 
Davis of the YMCA, who are under 
the chairmanship of Woody Trautman. Thanks are in order for the 
P&Ds under Pat Delehaunty who 
made the posters, and Lenore De 
Wall, Clem MeKenna, and Dave 
Jones merit special commendation 
for the work they have done in ar
ranging for dinner speakers.
Notice
Panhellenic Council invites all 
Freshmen girls to attend an Open 
House to be held Wednesday after
noon, February 28, from 4-6 in the 
Carnegie Union.
This is the ambulance which Tech is pledged to buy this semester. Al
though our goal is $3,430, the first week showed only $154, or less than 
half the necessary weekly average of $343. This is one contribution that 
doesnt cost you a cent, so why not send our drive over the top? LET'S 
GO, TARTANS. __________________________ _____________

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1945
Guest Editorial
Why Believe?
The following editorial was written by Robert Finley, a recent graduate 
of the University of Virginia who was president of the Student Council 
and boxing champion while in college. He is now traveling from cam
pus to campus as a member of the staff of the Inter-varsity Student 
Fellowship, and has written in hopes that his belief may inspire others 
during the Religious Discussion Week.
Does the modern man need religious faith? Have we outgrown the 
faith of our fathers? Can we be sure that God is real, that the Bible is 
true, that the soul is immortal? Ask the average college student these 
questions and he will invariably reply, I do not know.
Students at Carnegie are no exception. During the five days that I 
visited Tech last week, I asked dozens of students to answer these and 
similar questions. In almost every instance the answers were revelatory 
of inward confusion and despair. Every one agrees that we need some sort 
of faith to undergird our lives, but no one seems to know where to find it. 
My purpose in this editorial, as one college student to another, is to tell 
you where I have found peace of mind, and eternal happiness.
While I was a student at the University of Virginia a classmate offered 
me a thousand dollars for an inward peace such as mine. Another, who was 
heir to millions, said he would exchange it all for my faith.
Now you ask, What is your faith? What do you have that other people 
do not have? Above all, where did you get it? In reply, let me say that 
I have nothing new. My faith is identical with that of such men as Moses, 
Paul, Augustine, Luther, and Lincoln. Furthermore, this same faith is 
possessed by thousands of individuals today. You will find them, great 
and small, learned and unlearned, in every conceivable walk of life, and 
in all parts of the world. They are those who can say with Paul, of old, I 
know whom I have believed and am persuaded that he is able to keep that 
which I have committed unto him. The thing that makes us different is 
that we have entered into an eternal fellowship with the living God. We 
know Him personally.
To some of you this sounds fantastic. It did to me until four years ago, 
because I did not know God either. Spiritually speaking, I was in Hell. 
Hell is separation from God, and I was separated from Him. Many Carnegie 
Tech students have frankly admitted to me that they are in the same 
condition, yet none of them wish to stay there. Religious Discussion Week 
provides an opportunity for those who know the Lord to introduce Him to 
the other students who havent made His acquaintance.
I shall tell you how God brought me into fellowship with Himself. 
For many years I was not interested in spiritual matters. I did not wish 
to believe, because I feared that God would interfere with my personal 
desires. I wanted to run my own life, and preferred not to have any God 
getting in my way. This attitude led only to dissatisfaction and mental con
fusion. Life became meaningless and without definite purpose. In search 
of something better, I turned to the Bible, resolved to investigate it with 
an open mind. I was amazed at its content.
It showed me my true condition before a Holy God. My sin had sep
arated me from Him, and He could not possibly associate with me until all 
my guilt had been removed. Spiritual death, eternal separation from God, 
was all that life offered me. But at the same time I found in the Bible that 
God had worked out a plan to deliver me. He provided a Saviour to die 
in my place, and promised to acquit me of all guilt if I would accept the 
Savious as my substitute. God is the Governor of the universe, and I am a 
criminal who has violated His laws. Justice condemns me to be hung, but 
the Governor, constrained by Divine love, consented to be hung in my 
place and then came back to life after He was crucified. When I accepted 
Him as my Saviour an amazing thing happened. All feeling of guilt and 
fear of Divine justice vanished out of my mind, and by a miracle which I 
cannot explain, God came to dwell inside of me. If you do not believe it 
works, ask someone who has tried it, and experience it yourself.
I am fully aware that many who read this will disagree. I would have 
disagreed myself four years ago, but now I am convinced beyond a shadow 
of doubt that Jesus Christ is all that He claimed to be, and that, as He 
said, No man can come unto the Father but by Him. If He was not telling 
the truth, then He was one of the most subtle deceivers that ever lived. 
But if He did speak the truth, it is both our right and our duty to inves
tigate His claim upon our lives and upon the lives of our fellow men.
During Religious Discussion Week, the opportunity is yours through 
contact with the clergy and those who daily experience the power of a 
Christ-centered life to solidify the foundations of your faith.Bob Finley.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
ftaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed, as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnefie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh IS, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER *00 PHONE SCHENLEY 4551
MNMNTie FOR NATIONAL ABV**THIN* BV
National Advertising Service, Inc.
Collet* Publishers Representative 
420 Madison 420. New York. M. Y.
Vol.o3  Lot AMttM  38N 4683_CN_o
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-chief ........... Emerson 1808
Business Manager.........Jackson 9896
Entered as Meal*<AHf miner In the Pittibiftfa Post Office under the Aet of Mareh S, 1871. 
Published weekly during school year, except holidays ana examination periods. 
Subscription Price $1.10 per yeat.
Editor-in-chief............................................................................................... Adeline C. Herlick
Managing Editor ..................................................................................................... Clara Herron
One of the Boys
He is 6 with his hair down, 
6 3 with it combed up; his hair 
up or downhas something in com
mon with brown, mainly the color;
his eyes are green and you know 
what they say about green eyed 
monsters; he wears a 16-36 shirt,
... Tommy Bokman
13B socks and shoes (some under
standing) , 7% hat; he has a 38 waist, 
and he is the latest one to take the 
title of Tall and Terrific (it says 
here). Who is he? Why, he is Thom
as Patton (because he is so like a 
general-nuisance) Bokman. Tom 
Bokman for short and you must 
have heard of him for he has his 
proverbial finger in every prover
bial pie. He is President of the 
SAEs (hes THE SAE); sports edi
tor of the Tartan; ex-editor of the 
Scottie; ex-ACAC representative; 
President of PiDE, the journalistic 
honorary; and goodness knows what 
else. (He was too modest to recite 
the whole list). At present he is an 
Aero Engineer and fondly nursing 
dreams of graduating in April. Then 
(quote) having been let out of this 
factory, I will go to college (un
quote) . . . He also thinks that 
every fellow should take engi
neering but not too seriously. Be
sides his beloved school work, Tom 
also likes swimming, basketball, 
football, photography, sen-sen, and 
Continued on page 6
Letter To The Editor
Dear Miss Herlick:
Recently a Tech engineer was tell
ing me how much he had learned in 
one of his courses about the early 
Christian Church  and that he 
could now brush off religion as 
superstition and wishful thinking of 
only psychological value. As this 
comment was rather startling and 
somewhat indicative of reactions of 
others, I asked him the source of his 
information. His reply: several
books and lectures exclusive of the 
Bible. Wasnt it strange, I asked, 
that in his search for knowledge of 
God, Christ and the early Church, 
he should overlook the textbook of 
God himself?
During the bull sessions of Re
ligious Discussion Week I hope that 
Tech students will feel an urge to 
think about themselvesbody, soul 
and spirit  and their relationship 
with God. It is an opportunity to
think and study along religious lines 
unhampered by the opinions of the 
classrooms and man-written com
mentaries and possibly to get aid 
from the visiting clergymen.
As Bob Finley remarks in his ed
itorial, many students are I dont 
knows ignorant of the message of 
the New Testament. Mindful of our 
scientific thought patterns, I suggest 
that we study the New Testament, 
particularly the Gospel of St. John, 
and direct our thoughts  not to 
shortcomings of the present-day 
church nor to psychological substi
tutes for religionbut to Christ and 
His possible influence in our lives. 
Isnt A Faith for Modern Man one 
which rectifies his sinful position be
fore a perfect creator through Faith 
in Christs substitutionary death, 
and empowers him through a per
sonal relation with God to live vic
toriously?
(Signed) Woody Trautman.
... A.C.A.C. Minutes...
Sixty-fifth Meeting 
February 14, 1945 
The meeting was called to order at 5:00 
p.m.
Present: Messrs. Herrmann and Lerman; Misses Bauer, Brooks, Garland, 
Swaney, and Werner.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Special CommitteeActivities Keys 
Miss Garland read the section of the 
By-Laws of the Student Council regard
ing the awarding of activities keys. It 
was moved that gold-jewelled keys be 
awarded to the following members of the 
Activities Council:
Barclay, Berenice 
Bauer, Adele 
Brooks, Melva 
Bokman, Tom 
Ferraez, Doris 
Garland, Jean 
Herrmann, Dick 
Motion carried.
Lerman, Leonard 
Lowenstein, Ernest 
Pollock, Jack 
Snow, Warren 
Swaney, Shirley 
Werner, Pat
Social Committee
Miss Werner moved that the Activities 
Council grant Delta Tau Delta permission 
to use the swimming pool for a swimming 
party on Saturday, February 17, 1945, 
from 9:00 to 11:00 p.m.
Motion carried.
W. A. A.
Miss Werner moved that the Activities
Council grant W. A. A. permission to hold 
a swimming party in the swimming pool 
on Thursday, March 1, 1945, from 7:00 to 
9:00 p.m.
Motion carried.
Home Economics Club 
The use of Recreation Hall from 4:00 to 
5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, March 14, 1945, 
has been allocated to the Home Economics 
Club.
ATHLETICS COMMITTEE
Miss Werner moved that the Activities 
Council approve and accept the minutes 
of the Administration Committee of the 
Division of Physical Welfare. The fol
lowing minute is of particular importance 
to the Activities Council:
Since the AST Program has been dis
continued, it is the opinion of the Com
mittee that there is no further need for 
an intramural representative on the Ac
tivities Council. After, discussing the ac
tivities of the Intramural Board, it was 
VOTED to recommend that the Intra
mural Board not be represented on the 
Activities Council.
The next meeting of the Activities 
Council will be held on Tuesday evening, 
February 20, 1945, in room 162, Industries 
Hall.
Respectfully submitted,
Shirley Swaney, 
Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1945___________________________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN ft
. . . dirt colyum . . in
Edward Mettauer McGehee, for
mer Carnegie Tech student for two 
years, was commissioned an Ensign 
in the Naval Reserve and designated 
a Naval Aviator recently at the 
Naval Air Training Bases, Pensa
cola, Florida. Having completed his 
intermediate training at the An
napolis of the Air, he will be or
dered to duty either at an instruc
tors school for further training or 
at an operational base. Ensign Mc
Gehee is the son of Mrs. Nell Mc
Gehee of 513 Zulema Street, Pitts
burgh, Pa.
A second oak leaf cluster to his 
air medal has been awarded to First 
Lieutenant Norman A. Franks, for 
Meritorious achievement while 
participating in bombing missions to 
German military and industrial tar
gets. Lt. Franks, co-pilot of an 
Eighth Air Force B-17 Flying 
Fortress, is a member of the 385th 
bombardment group commanded by 
Colonel George Y. Jumper. He is the 
son of Mrs. Egba Heaps, 3 Kennedy 
Street, Monongahela, Pennsylvania, 
and he graduated from Springdale, 
Pa., High Schol. Prior to entering 
the Army Air forces in September, 
1942, he was employed as a statis
tician by the Carnegie-Illinois Steel 
Corporation, Munhall, Pennsylva
nia. He received his wings at Mar
ianna, Florida, in December, 1943.
First Lieutenant Don Robinson 
Littell, who is a navigator in a 15th 
AAF B-24 Liberator group com
manded by Lt. Col. Brooks A. Lawhon, recently flew his 35th combat 
mission. Since arriving overseas in 
July he has participated in attacks 
on key Nazi targets throughout 
southern and central Europe includ
ing many within Germany itself. 
Trips to the area around Blechhammer, Germany, have left him 
with many vivid memories. FightSuccceding generations of 
many of Pittsburghs pioneer 
families open an account at 
the Mellon National Bank as 
a matter of family tradition 
as soon as they come of age.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
KJusJu
ers jumped us near Blechhammer 
not long ago, he said. Our target 
was an oil refinery at Odertal and 
just a few minutes short of the tar
get more than 50 ME-109s attacked.
I didnt do much of a job at either. 
We made the target though, and de
spite the flak, went in on a perfect 
bomb run. Lt. Littell is a graduate 
of Schenley High School, and he 
attended Tech before going to work 
for the Westinghouse Electric Com
pany as an information writer. He 
joined the AAF in March, 1943, and 
commissioned a year later at Selman Field, La. He wears the Air 
Medal with three Oak Leaf Clus
ters, the African-European-Middle 
Eastern theater ribbon with two 
battle stars and was recently auth
orized to wear the Distinguished 
nit Badge with one Oak Leaf Clus
ter as a member of a unit twice cit
ed for outstanding performance in 
combat. His wife, Mrs. Fern G. Lit
tell, lives at 340 Craft Avenue, Pitts
burgh, Pa.
You And Your 
Out-of-Town Friends
will find comfortable 
accommodations 
at
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make your reservations 
well in advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
Tech Service Men and Women Are 
Especially Welcome
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
MAyflower 7700
Tuesday noon and all is well!or 
is it? Not with snazzy women like 
Dell M. and Mina W. having callers 
from out of the citynor gay Indy 
Jarrett, handsome brudder, and W. 
Va. friends making eyes at all the 
campus galsnot with a certain D. 
U. crashing the Pan Hel Partynor 
with wonderful couples like Millard 
Brown and gal strolling around the 
campus, nor handsome Vets like 
the keen blonde seen standing unat
tached in the canteen Wednesday 
eveningmmmmmm!
Incidentally we hear magicians 
Huntoon and Herrmann are waving 
their magic lines agin!this time 
its brunettes; will they fall under 
the spell? If they dont you might 
consult Fred Mitchell, he sure does 
alright! Feminine witchcraft is be
ing practiced by Jeanne Knee and 
Bette Unger who are good at con
juring sharp males.
. . . Marty Moore seen with Boris 
on Friday, with Esch on Saturday 
. . . what gives? Ally Ann sporting 
an engagement ring from former 
Techite, George Wilson . . .
Love or something must be hap
pening to the gals of Birchtheir 
hairs turning blonde! also theres 
the calamity of Linden Hallwhat 
was so exciting that it made all the 
plaster fall down? Excitement can 
work wonders! Just ask Jed Y. and
I was lead navigator and in addition 
to navigating I had to take care of 
the nose turret guns. The fighters 
had me so excited that I am afraid
Let's go to
IS ALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COWES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT;
8880 Boulevard of the Allies
George S. about some of the dramat 
parties or better still peer at Dotty 
Schwartzs diamond! Then too you 
ought to hear a certain coeds opin
ion of Mel Klein!
Wanta wonder about something 
gang! Then worry about the an
swers to some of these questions  
Why does Joan Perl sigh at the 
thoughts of September? From 
whom did Pat Jones get her hoard 
of Valentine roses? Where does 
Nond Nathanson get his witty re
marks? Who sent Eleanor Yorke her 
gardenia corsage? For whom does 
Clifford pine? Who was the sailor 
we saw with Lucille Jackson? Are 
these rumors about a spring carni
val true? If so who will be going 
with whom? (Better be thinkin this 
last one over fellas) Yes, Tuesday 
afternoon n alls wellor is it?
Science Club
All members should tell Carol 
Ford as soon as possible what ex
periments they want to do so that 
the necessary chemicals can be 
bought.
Attention
All members of the War Stamp 
Committee are reminded to come to 
the meeting this afternoon at 5:00 
in Room 102, Arts.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
PITTSBURGH 
BLUE PRINT AND 
SUPPLY COMPANY
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
CARRICK BANK
Carrick, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TRTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1646
Bill Eythe
prise by talking to them on all as
pects of the theater and motion 
pictures. His was the kind of enthus
iasm which gave numerous exam
ples of how to get into motion 
pictures. His informality of skipping 
from succent remarks on the great 
and near-great in Hollywood to a 
keen analysis on the position of the 
artist in society charmed his listen
ers.
Bill, who graduated from Techs 
drama school in 1940 and then spent 
several years on Broadway and in 
summer stock, considers The Royal 
Scandal his best picture so far. Com
bining a brilliant script with a great 
actress, Tallulah Bankhead, and the 
superb direction of Ernst Lubitsch, 
this picture ably demonstrates the 
artistic possibilities of the motion 
picture. And it was on this subject
Another erstwhile student in the 
Drama School who has made the 
grade visited Pittsburgh this week. 
He is Cpl. John Blankenchip, 
Drama 41, who is the assistant de
signer of the play, Winged Victory, 
which played at the Nixon Theater 
this past fortnight.
Working under T/Sgt. Harry 
Horner, designer of the sets for 
Lady in the Dark, Blankie was re
sponsible for seeing that the dis
tinctive details in the sets were 
made. When the movie version of 
the play were being made, he work
ed on prop research.
While at C. I. T., Blankie was a 
very active member of the old 
Scotch and Soda Club, and worked 
creditably on many performances 
in the Little Theater.
After completing his studies as a
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193ART CINEMA
Tartans Lose To 
Westminster 84-51
The Tartans lost their tenth game 
of the campaign last Saturday even
ing at New Wilmington, Pa., to the 
towering titans of Westminster. The 
84-51 count told just about the com
parative strengths of the teams, and 
the quarterly scoring was pretty 
regular.
Still trying to find the best com
bination, Max Hannum sent Johnny 
Ackerman and Tasso Katselas to 
forwards, Ed Smuts to center, and 
Mel Klein and Vince Fastuca to 
guards. Before the half was over, 
though, Morinello, Scherb, Dean, 
Rahall, and Simpson had also seen 
action, and Westminster had taken 
a 45-26 lead. Bennett and Jorgen
sen, each over 6 7 , had 33 points 
between them, partly from convert
ing rebounds. The only bright spot 
of the evening for the Tech sup
porters was Tasso Katselas 23 point 
effort in the cause.
The game was pretty competitive 
until Bennett sank about four 
straight set shots at the beginning 
of the second quarter. A Westmins
ter flurry of fielders at the opening 
of the second half also took the edge 
off things. The game degenerated in
to a fouling match, and the referees 
worked overtime.
The Juniata Indians visit next 
Saturday, and the other games are 
with Allegheny and Slippery Rock, 
not nearly so formidable foes as 
those encountered in the past two 
weeks. The Tartans plus Theodore 
and Clougherty had little trouble 
with Juniata on another occasion, 
but whether or not the revamped 
lineup can handle them will be the 
big question this week. At any rate, 
the game will be much more evenly 
matched than several this season.
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
SC. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
809 Liberty Ave. Near Wood
NOW SHOWING
THE MOST SENSATIONAL PICTURE TO 
COME OUT OF THIS WAR!
THE RAINBOW
THE GREATEST PICTURE TO COME OUT 
OF THE HEART OF WAR-TORN RUSSIA!
SUPERLATIVELY PRODUCED . . . POW
ERFUL.N. Y. TIMES.
BRILLIANT ... A GENUINE MOTION 
PICTURE ACHIEVEMENT.HERALD TRI
BUNE.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Stret
A*************** * *
Buymore#^now 
for/r/security, too!
*?????????????? "kjk ?
Acompenos... Have a Coke
Aumuti Sbramati acJzproduction major in drama school, 
Blankie went to Yale to study for 
his masters degree. He was then 
called to the service and became a 
member of the Army Air Corps, the 
service branch from which all mem
bers of the Winged Victory com
pany were chosen.
His experience, however, was not 
confined to C. I. T. and Yale, for he 
spent three seasons in summer stock 
at Princetown, Gloucester, and Mar
ion, Mass.
One might assume that an accom
plished young man like John Blan
kenchip would be smug, aloof, and 
apathetic to the old alma mater. 
Blankie is a definite contradiction to 
that supposition for he was wont 
to explain the revolving stage, the 
lighting set-up and other details 
about the show. He talked affably of 
old days at school and the people he
...or how to be hep in Puerto Rico
.d Puerto Rico, as in Punxsutawney or Pasadena, Coca-Cola is a 
friend-maker your American soldier can count on. To natives and 
to his buddies alike, Have a Coke says Hotvya doin,pal. Its a simple 
gesture of friendly courtesy. Yes, Coca-Cola is truly an American 
symbol of a refreshing way to make friends;
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Cpl. Blankenchip, Winged Victory 
Bill Eythe, Actor, Surprise CIT
Enthusiasm, informality, and sin
cerity were the main facets of Wil
liam Eythes personality when he 
gave the freshmen and senior drama 
students a real Valentines day sur-'
that Bill Eythes sincerity and deep 
appreciation were so well expressed. 
He praised the technical devices and 
the great directors and producers of 
Hollywood. Without biting the hand 
that has fed him so well, Mr. Eythe 
also mentioned the various kinds of 
phonies in Hollywood who make life 
difficult for actors, producers, di
rectors and those who want to make 
motion pictures worth seeing.
But possibly the most interesting 
part of Bills discussion of the the
ater and motion pictures was the 
tribute he paid to the training and 
instruction which he had received 
at Carnegie Tech. Said he (to the 
dramats he was addressing): By 
all means, take Edith Skinner and 
Mary Morris seriously and master 
your voice and speech and acting 
technique.
John Blankenchip
had met here. There was no air of 
condescension or affectation in Cpl. 
Blankenchip, a factor which should 
help him advance rapidly in his 
field.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Bob Shapiro Requests 
Record at Canteen
A poison-pen letter, containing a 
nickel and requesting that Sing Me 
a Song of Texas be played on the 
juke box was received by the Can
teen the other day from Bob Sha
piro, a former Tech student. Tex 
came to Tech from Texas (howd 
you guess?) in 1943, but couldnt 
stand the foreign atmosphere, and 
has now returned to his beloved 
prairie dogs.
When the letter arrived obliging 
Tech students played not only the 
requested song, but also Heres a 
Kiss for Texas. No one seems to 
know where the other nickel came 
from.
Series of Art Lectures 
To Begin on Tues. Night
On Tuesday, February 20 the lec
ture Art is More than Painting will 
begin a series of discussions to be 
given in collaboration with the As
sociated Artists show at Carnegie 
Institute. Messrs. Oscar Gamier, 
Robert Gill, Fredrick Clayter, 
Charles Stoz, and Joseph B. Ellis are 
the speakers of the evening.
There will be three other lectur
ers given on February 27, March 6, 
and March 13. The lectures are free 
to the public, and all interested per
sons are invited to attend.
Gym Notes 
W.A.A.
Watch for the notice in next 
weeks Tartan about the W.A.A. 
swimming party.
Basketball
All girls interested in basketball 
come out to practice Mondays at 
5:00 and Thursdays at 4:00. As soon 
as we have twelve girls with five 
hours practice each, we can play 
games with other colleges.
Presenting Our Candid Opinions of the 
Associated Artists 35th Annual Exhibit
Letter to the Editor
pear Editor:
I should like to commend highly 
the appeal of Dick Herrman in last 
weeks Tartan for more cooperation 
and school spirit from the Engi
neers. In line with his thoughts, I, 
too, should like to make an appeal 
in regard to the present defense 
stamp campaign. I have been advis
ed by the Defense Stamp Commit
tee that only $154 was raised during 
the first week of the campaign and 
further, that average stamp sales of 
$330 per week for the next ten 
weeks are imperative if the total 
funds for OUR ambulance are to be 
raised. The statistics show that the 
Engineers have been giving far from 
maximum cooperation and that Fine 
Arts students could give considera
bly more. It is rather unnecessary to 
stress reasons for buying defense 
stamps, so lets have an ALL-OUT 
EFFORT! Lets have some SCHOOL 
SPIRIT!
(Signed)
Cyrus B. Hailperin, E. E. S.
Outlines
There will be members preview 
of a Black-and-White exhibit at the 
Outlines Galleries on Sunday, Feb. 
25, at 8:30 p. m. The exhibit, which 
will be open to the public from 
Feb. 28 to March 18, will include 
etchings, woodcuts, and lithographs 
by such famous artists as Carl 
Hofer, Pablo Uicasso, Carlos Merida, 
and others.
Discussion Club
There will be a regular meeting 
of the Discussion Club on Thursday 
evening at 7:30 in the Union. The 
topic for the discussion will be 
Dialectic Materialism and the dis
cussion will be led by Ida Mary 
Lewis.
On last Thursday night the Asso
ciated Artists of Pittsburgh opened 
their 35th annual show. The show, 
which includes oil painting, water 
color, black and white, ceramics, 
bookbinding, and jewelry and 
metalcraft, entered by members and 
candidate members -of the associa
tion, is somewhat of a disappoint
ment. There is a lack of vitality, of 
purpose, and of experimentation; 
and much of the work is trite, 
pretty, sentimental, unstimulated, 
and unstimulating. Particularly dispppointing is the consistent failure 
of Pittsburgh Artists to capture the 
character of Pittsburgh in their city 
scenes. Of the very many paintings 
which attempted to portray this 
city, the number which even par
tially succeeded was incongruously 
small. Among this latter group are 
Cornelius Heppenstall Steel, 46 St. 
Gate, Henri Lisis Christmas 
Afternoon, Bill Libbys Rain, and 
Sarah Wolk Hoechstetters From 
the Hotel Pittsburgher Roor, a suc
cessful emphasis on mood. Two 
other paintings which had a pow
erful quality of mood were Proellochs Foggy Morning and Ewings 
Winter Night on Spring 'Street. 
Also adding life to the show but in 
the humorous vein were two paint
ings by Louise Pershing whose wit 
is always appreciated. Her painting 
titled Seaside Houses or At Last 
a Hydrant is a whimsical charact 
terization of those rambling salty 
old houses near the sea. Sam Rosen
bergs two paintings added rich, raw 
color to the show and his False 
God, a picture of human-like pup
pets bowing before a fat bejewelled 
lady god, has reached another peak 
.in his work. Its color, composition, 
and purpose of meaning contribute 
to the striking success.
The prizes in the oil section are 
worthy and sensible selections. 
Frances Cox Sankeys Home 
Again, a well characterized por
trayal of the Hill District and its 
people, seems to have caught some
thing of what the artist saw and 
felt and has revealed it in a subtle 
composition and pleasing style to 
the audience.
The room of abstracts was the 
brightest spot in the oil exhibit and, 
although at first glance it is likely 
to strike terror into the hearts of 
the uninitiated, a second and closer 
look will reveal well organized, col
orful, and pleasingly sensory pieces 
of art. For their achievements in 
this field, Mary McCann, Russ 
Twiggs, and Paul Karlan should re
ceive laurels; for they have produc
ed unobjective art that is superior 
art and far ahead of the minutely 
conscientious realism of many of the 
other paintings.
However in comparison to the oils 
the water colors are much livelier 
and gayer. Here is mood and color 
galore that is fun to look at.
Many of the exhibitors in this 
show are from Techfaculty, stu
dents, and alumnae. R. Twiggs, S. 
Rosenberg, Mrs. Edmonds, C. K. 
Ewing, W. R. Readio, Lloyd Weninger, Roy Hilton, Mr. MacGilvary, 
Mr. Clayter, Mr. Squitieri, Balcomb 
Greene, Mr. Lepper, and Mr. Simboli are faculty representatives 
whose work can and should be seen. 
Among the student contributions 
are: Dottie Kings status of a
woman and two small children; 
Maryl Gertens statue of a charming 
bear; a nicely patterned city scene 
by Marje Wickerman; a lively ab
stract by Irene Waichler; an oil by 
Dottie Dee; an abstract by Mary 
McCann; and a water color by Biz 
Ritter.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE, CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1945The Plaid
Be Someones Valentine 
Sat., Feb. 24, 8:30 to 11:30
Dust off your heart and bring it 
to the Valentine Party! We know 
that Valentines Day is past but that 
wont stop us from having a good 
time. Because of its warm, cozy at
mosphere, the Canteen (former 
Hut) has been selected for the 
party. It is decorated in gay colors 
for February, the month of holidays.
There will be all kinds of intere s t i n g entertainment including 
dancing to the latest records on the 
juke box (everything from Rum 
And Coca Cola to If You Are But 
A Dream), and cards for those who 
wish to do something less athletic 
than dancing. The pin ball machines 
will also be available for those who 
like that type of sport. The Enter
tainment Committee has a novelty 
dance that will be a treat to every
one, regardless of any possible short
age of fellows.
Mrs. Barr, who has charge of the 
Canteen, has graciously consented 
to help with the arrangements and 
to be chaperone for the evening.
There will be tasty eats and 
drinks in the refreshment line, and 
no charge for an evening of fun. So 
come out and enjoy yourself this 
February 24th from 8:30 to 11:30 P. 
M. See you there!
Reserve Sat., March 31
The way the weeks roll around it 
wont be long until the evening of 
March 31, 1945, will be here. (Re
member, thats the night of the En
gineers Thirtieth Annual Banquet.) 
Sounds rather hackneyed to keep 
harping on the fact that BANQUET 
NIGHT is rapidly approaching, but 
since plans are being quickly whip
ped into shape by the committee, 
each and every one of you should be 
making your own little prepara
tions, that is, Making plans to have 
the evening of March 31, free, of 
Planning to have someone come in 
and keep the little lady company, 
if that be necessary.
In a week or so tickets will go on 
sale and it will help the committee 
quite a lot if they know in advance 
how many tickets are being sold. So, 
Fellows, with your own plans form
ulated in advance concerning the 
banquet, you will be in a position to 
purchase your tickets early and in 
that way help the men who are 
working hard to make this banquet 
as successful as former banquets.
As you know, the banquet will be 
held in the Gold Room of the Hotel 
Roosevelt. Watch the PLAID for 
further announcements.
The Plaid
Editor 
Joseph M. Rymar
New Editor 
Mary de Maria 
Associate Editor*
Ruth McGraw 
Arlene McMurray
Page edited by Evening School Students of Ca#- 
negie Institute of Technology. All views o> 
pinions expressed in editorial coInmn are not 
necessarily endorsed by he Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
Staff
Betty Ashcraft E. E. McDonald
Olive Baumgardner Frank Mihelich
Virginia Ehni Dorothy Papa
S W. Marciruzyn Leah Van Hom
Fred Vichich
Many people have been behind 
the 8-ball involuntarily but this is 
the first time we have heard of any
one who thinks he should be in that 
infamous place. Newest candidates 
are these fellows in the Machine 
Design Class. Homework is the main 
trouble and old man conscience is 
catching up with them. Ellis Perry, 
only ambitious one in the class; Har
ry Wesley, who claims he has no 
time available for study; Stu Ring
er, just married, nuf said; Charles 
Kifer, has no excuse for not plug
ging; and last, but not least, our Ed
itor, Joe Rymar, whose family keeps 
him busy. Good excuses, fellows! 
... We were pleasantly surprised 
to see John Groll last Friday night 
in the PLAID office. We understand 
he is contemplating registering at 
Pitt since Tech has nothing to offer 
him. We wonder WHY! We hope 
other returning servicemen wont 
be forced to abandon Tech as a re
sult of this lack . . . Well, well, 
Virginia Ehni, our lovely blond As
sistant Social Chairman, is going to 
the Engineers banquet. At least, 
that is she says she is, by hook or by 
crook . . . Those posters on the bul
letin boards advertising the Valen
tine party were made by Betty Ash
croft. Not bad, are they. By the way, 
we hope to see all of you at the par
ty. .. . John Hopkins is out of the 
service and is working at Westinghouse . . . Fred Vichichs car has 
two damaged fenders. Of course, he 
sticks to that old story, He hit me. 
Could be! . . . Thats all, for now.
fa/an. Stamp, jb'uae
A new patriotic gesture has arisen 
on the campus with the inaugura
tion of a war stamp drive last Tues
day, February 13, to last until May 1.
This drive, of which Iris Kwall is 
chairman, purposes to raise $3,500 
for the purchasing of a heavy am
bulance by the sale of 25c war sav
ings stamps at three bopths placed 
in Margaret Morrison, Fine Arts 
and Industries Hall.
The approximate quota for each 
student will be $3 for the eleven 
weeks of the drive, and each should 
be more than willing to help achieve 
this goal.
In addition, the Evening Students 
plan to maintain these booths each 
evening of the drive and volunteers 
for one night a week are urgently 
requested. Those who are propelled 
by the desire to aid in such a fine 
cause please contact the Plaid, box 
362. If you havent the time to con
tribute then take a minute at least 
to buy those stamps each class night.
Tommy ...
continued, from page 2 
womenpreferably redheads. If you 
are a redhead you can get in touch 
with T n T (Tall and Terrific) at 
Mazers, the modest cafe of the 
smart young set, or you can call Ja. 
4271. And by the way you, who have 
not yet undergone that unique ex
perience of meeting Tom, be warn
ed! Expect ANYTHING  from a 
hearty slap on the back to a loqua
cious dissertation on insect life to 
an endless, pointless, and probably 
shady jokefor instance: Many a 
man has made a monkey of himself 
by reaching for the wrong limb. 
Yet in spite of his shortcomings and 
goings, Tom is an ambitious lad. His 
greatest ambition is this: To go back 
to Chicago and see more naked 
Wimmin (Whats wrong with Pghs 
naked Wimmin?). So we come to 
the end of this hectic interview and 
if perhaps it sounds a bit corny, 
well . . .
P. S. Tom has a sense of humor, 
too or I wouldnt dare to have writ
ten this.
Attention
Fifty cents (50c) will be paid for 
any of the following copies of the 
Tartan upon the receipt of those 
copies by any member of Tartan 
staff:
November 28, 1944 
December 5, 1944 
December 12, 1944
New Courses ...
Continued from page 1 
music, literature, or art. Also the 
second of the two courses which a 
student elects in the senior year 
must be, one which carries forward 
the work of the first.
These new courses are part of a 
general plan of development of the 
School Relations Program approved 
by the Educational Senate at its last 
meeting.
In later issues the Tartan will 
publish interviews with the teach
ers of the experimental courses.
^sm
L
ONG TOMS  blasting unseen targets  are 
4 directed by voices flashing through this artil
lerymans radio telephone "switchboard. His FM 
set can operate on 120 crystal controlled channels, 
any ten selected instantly by push-buttons. Using its 
many channels, he connects the battalion commander 
with spotters up front and in planes; then with 
battery commanders who focus tremendous fire
power. Hes helping soften the hard road ahead.
As the nations largest producer of communica
tions and electronic equipment, Western Electric 
turns out vast quantities of telephone, radio and de
tection devices for all branches of our armd forces. 
Many college graduates  men and women  are 
helping us put these weapons in our fighters hands.
Buy all the War Bonds you can-and keep them!
Western Electric
IN PEACE...SOURCE or SUPPLY FOR THE 8EU SYSTEM. 
IN WAR...ARSENAL Of COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
