Business
The credit card industry 
has come under fire from 
several angles. We examine 
CMU's affiliations and 
touch base with a recent 
grad who was awash in 
credit card debt.
page B4 
Entertainment
Before heading out to Craig 
Street, be sure to read the 
area's restaurant reviews.
page B7
Volume 95, Issue 5tartan@andrew.cmu.edu2 October 2000
Baker Hall renovations reveal asbestos problem Nader shares economic
views at campus lectureby 2Oct ober0
junior Staffwriter
For the past two weeks, students 
and faculty walking through Baker 
Hall couldnt help but notice the 
jray plastic tarp hanging in front 
)f what used to be the H&SS 
Academic Advisory Office. The 
announcement that the area was 
[being inspected for asbestos 
aroused concern among those who 
passed by, but Madelyn G. Miller, 
director of Environmental Health 
& Safety, states that the situation is 
far less alarming than it seems.
Due to the renovations for new 
offices in Baker Hall, Miller and 
Barbara Kviz, Environmental 
Services Contract Manager for 
Facilities Management were 
required to hire environmental 
consultants and abatement 
removal contractors to check the 
area for asbestos. Before any con
struction can begin, consultants 
and contractors must conduct a 
series of careful tests and aggres
sive inspections under highly regu
lated procedures in order to clear 
the area as asbestos-free.
When inspecting the former 
H&SS Academic Advisory offices, 
which have now been permanendy 
relocated in the new Baker Hall 
wing, abatement removal contrac
tors found asbestos in the floor 
tiles. Since the asbestos was not in 
what Kviz calls a friable state and 
thus not a breathing hazard, those 
who entered or frequented the 
office were in no danger. To begin 
the renovations, however, the floor 
tiles had to be removed, and the air 
was filtered to remove any possibly 
airborne fibers of the dangerous 
substance. After collecting five 
clearance samples and passing a 
visual inspection by the Allegheny 
County Health Department 
Inspector, contractors and consul
tants determined last week that 
the area is safe to be re-occupied 
after the floor tile abatement.
Asbestos is a mineral that sepa
rates into fibers that are strong,
 durable, and resistant to heat and 
fire. Because it is an incombustible, 
non-conducting, chemically resis
tant material, construction compa
nies initially used the fibers in 
industrial sites, homes, schools and 
commercial structures to reduce
the risk of fire and prevent build
ings from burning down. During 
the twentieth century, 30 million 
tons of asbestos were used in the 
United States alone. However, sci
entists discovered in the 1980s that 
inhaling airborne fibers of this 
miracle substance causes serious 
human health hazards, including 
lung cancer, asbestosis and small 
airway fibrosis.
Though there is asbestos in sev
eral areas on campus, Miller states 
that it isnt hazardous. Carnegie 
Mellon has maintained sufficient 
control of the potentially harmful 
substance over the years and has 
never run into any serious prob
lems. Adhering to its Asbestos 
Management Plan to regulate any 
asbestos-containing materials 
(ACM) on University property, the 
University engages in regular for
mal and informal inspections, in 
addition to sampling and analysis 
of campus areas. Periodic surveil
lance, which includes routine, doc
umented re-assessments of the 
condition, location, and capacity 
for damage of a particular materi
al, is administered often, and areas 
that are potentially dangerous are
carefully monitored.
In accordance with the Asbestos 
Management Plan, the University 
also maintains the Operations and 
Maintenance Program, a proce
dure used to runs asbestos-containing material that is not menac
ing enough for active abatement, 
but may be potentially dangerous. 
Designed to protect the health and 
safety of people in and near areas 
with ACM, the program seeks to 
prevent the release of asbestos 
fibers into the air. Parameters of 
the program include collecting air 
samples in key spaces, engaging in 
ongoing repair and cleanup of 
damaged areas, and implementing 
actions designed to prevent possi
ble future damage to materials and 
buildings.
Now that the Baker Hall office 
area has been reopened, abate
ment removal contractors and 
environmental consultants next 
project will be in Doherty Hall to 
check for asbestos in the locations 
currently set aside for new chem
istry labs. The construction of new 
offices in Baker Hall has also now 
been cleared to begin in the near 
future.
Advisory council looks 
for diversity solutions
University may allow Intel 
to move into UC basement
by u0Ol w0ts
Junior Staffwriter
In a time of increased emphasis 
on diversity, Carnegie Mellon 
University has joined the ranks of 
institutions on this quest. Over the 
past year, a Diversity Advisory 
Council was formed and has 
worked towards a more heteroge
neous ethnic community. Since its 
development in the fall of 1997, 
the committee  consisting of 
staff, faculty and students  has
set three steps of achieving an 
overall more ethnically, racially, 
and religiously balanced student 
body.
The Council, chaired by 
President Jared Cohon, meets 
about three times each semester 
to discuss how to enhance the feel
ing of community at CMU and cre
ate a more welcoming environ
ment. The three steps on the agen
da are to help the University 
understand diversity and address 
areas which need to be worked on, 
See DIVERSITY, page A4
by piv !?Oiv?1?r
Editor-In-Chief
Carnegie Mellon University 
could be weeks away from signing 
an agreement with Intel, Inc. to 
allow the company to move onto a 
designated location on campus for 
private use. The primary option 
would be for Intel to renovate and 
move into part of the basement 
space in the University Center.
The plan, referred to as the Intel 
Initiative, would provide a tempo
rary place where Intel could host a 
solution center for three to five 
years. The center would be
involved in research and develop
ment of e-commerce solutions. 
The center would be one of several 
solution centers worldwide.
Intel would spend an estimated 
$5 million to renovate around ten 
thousand square feet out of the 
forty thousand square foot base
ment, said Cate Anderson, 
Business Development Manager 
for Intel. She said that if all goes as 
planned, construction for the cen
ter could begin in November or 
December, with the center being 
operational next March or April.
When the University Center was 
originally built, the basement was 
See INTEL, page A5
AB sponsored a visit from Ralph Nader last Tuesday. He spoke about eco
nomic issues and the impact of large corporations on the average American.
economy has doubled since 1968 
but most Americans have lost 
ground since that year. He blames 
this loss on the fact that increasing
ly common corporate mergers have 
nearly wiped out family businesses. 
At the same time these corpora
tions are pulling in more and more 
money every year. A good econo
my is supposed to lift all boats, he 
said. Today its lifting all yachts. 
Nader went further to state that 
global corporations either worsen 
or are indifferent towards his list of 
the top ten problems in the world 
today. Among the problems listed 
were dictatorships, global threats 
to the environment, sustainable 
energy and diseases. Nader stated 
that global corporations benefit 
See NADER, page A3
by 2%cCl y?tfei
Senior Staffwriter
Everyone knows that Bill Gates is 
the richest person in America. 
What is less well known is that his 
personal wealth is equal the net 
wealth of the poorest 120 million 
people in America. This is just one 
of the disparities of our current 
economy that long-time consumer 
advocate and Green party presiden
tial candidate Ralph Nader 
addressed in his standing room 
only lecture in Rangos Hall last 
Tuesday evening.
Nader spoke extensively about 
how the USs current booming 
economy has not benefited all 
Americans. According to Nader, the
Health Services holds meningitis, 
influenza immunization program
President Cohon worked to develop the Diversity Advisory Council and now 
continues to be involved as the leader of the group.
by o?O? !etteMeOseO
Assistant Production Manager
Student Health Services, in col
laboration with Vaccess Health, 
will hold an immunization pro
gram on Tuesday, October 3, from 
11 am to 7 pm in Rangos Ballroom 
of the University Center. CMU stu
dents will have the opportunity to 
be immunized against two illness
es particularly prevalent on college 
campuses: influenza and
meningococcal meningitis.
Meningococcal meningitis is a 
serious bacterial infection that 
causes the membranes surround
ing the brain and spinal cord to 
become inflamed. Doctors treat 
meningococcal meningitis with 
antibiotics, but if administration is 
delayed, permanent disabilities,
including kidney and brain dam
age and even death, can result. 
Symptoms include fever, severe 
headache, stiff neck, rash, nausea, 
vomiting, and lethargy. Because 
many of the symptoms of meningi
tis are affiliated with more com
mon ailments, like the flu, victims 
of the disease often do not seek 
timely medical attention.
The frequency of the disease is 
on the rise, reports the Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention. 
Records show only 13 outbreaks 
during the 12-year period of 1980 
to 1991, but 33 outbreaks in the 5- 
year period of 1992-1996. 
Although the disease once 
occurred mostly in very young 
children, over half of the recent 
outbreaks have been in young 
adults living in college settings.
Medical researchers have yet to
determine the exact cause of the 
proportionately high incidence of 
meningitis on college campuses, 
but there are several traits of col
lege life that may contribute to 
the problem. Students  espe
cially first-years  are particular
ly susceptible because of their 
close living and working quarters. 
Behavioral and social aspects of 
college life such as smoking, 
being exposed to second-hand 
smoke, drinking excessive 
amounts of alcohol, sharing cups, 
and even kissing are also linked to 
the disease. The meningitis vac
cine does not prevent all forms of 
the disease, but it does protect 
against the strains that cause 70 
percent of meningitis cases in col
lege students.
There are approximately 2,500 
See IMMUNIZATION, page A5
Professor
receives
honors
by UOciil uv0c
Staffwriter
Dr. Raj Reddy, the Herbert A. 
Simon University Professor of 
Computer Science and Robotics at 
Carnegie Mellon University, was 
awarded an honorary doctor of sci
ence degree at the University of 
Massachusetts as the University 
opened its Computer Research 
Center. Reddy was one of three 
computer scientists who received 
this degree. Others to receive this 
degree include Leonard Kleinrock 
of UCAL, who is regarded as the 
father of the Internet, and Barry 
Boehm, who is a pioneer in softSee REDDY, page A5
2Octobe Carnegie Mellon i Student Newspaper Since l06
Hi 85/Lo 65
S2dn2odaF
Hi 83/Lo 55
w!PmodaF
Hi 69/Lo 47
EmpdaFHi 59/Lo 43.THE TARTAN
INSIDE THE TARTAN
Students outside the University Center prepared rams horns, or shofar, to celebrate. Rosh Hashana, the Jewish New Year 
of 5761. It is customary to sound the shofar to mark the New Year.
Sports
The Carnegie Mellon foot
ball team narrowly prevails 
at Gesllng Stadium. 
Women's soccer team is 
defeated in a heartbreak
ing loss. Pete Patterson 
makes a case for athletes' 
independence from politi
cal matters. Matt Brun 
previews baseball's post
season pennant chase.
page A12
Arts & Living
Political interest at CMU 
is reflected through stu
dent new organizations 
and speakers. Navaratri 
Indian festival and Mass 
Cultural Conference draw 
crowds.
page B1
Forum
Get your daily dose of 
guns, bikinis, and presi
dents in this week's sec
tion. Be sure to check out 
the letters to the editor.
page A6

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 2, 2000
Another Firestone tire brand probed
National News
WASHINGTON (AP)  The 
National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration has received more 
than 160 complaints about another 
Firestone brand of tires reportedly 
involved in accidents in which two 
people died and a dozen were 
injured.
The majority of the complaints 
occurred at highway speeds and 
allege a blowout, tread separation 
or other major failure,. NHTSA 
said in its investigation report 
about the Steeltex R4S and A/T 
light truck tires.
The tires are original equipment 
on Ford F250 and F350 pickups, 
the Ford Excursion, General 
Motors Suburban and G Van, a 
commercial vehicle.
A spokesman for Ford, Mike 
Vaughn, said the tires are used on 
all 75,760 Excursions and 40 per
cent of the F-series trucks and 
Econoline vans. Vaughn said Ford 
is cooperating with NHTSAs 
investigation.
Similar reports led 
Bridgestone/Firestone Inc. to issue 
a recall of 6.5 million Firestone 
ATX, ATX II and Wilderness AT tires 
last month. Those tires, standard 
equipment on the Ford Explorer, 
have been linked to 101 U.S. traffic 
deaths and more than 400 injuries.
Bridgestone/Firestone officials 
say they still have not determined 
the cause of the problems but have 
focused their investigation on man
ufacturing shortcomings at its plant 
in Decatur, Illinois.
The R4S is a mud and snow tire 
and the A/T is an all-terrain tire
LOS ANGELES (AP)  In one of 
the most popular TV series ever, 
Cheers was the neighborhood bar 
where everybody knew your name. 
And audiences knew the characters 
by name, guys like Norm the 
accountant and Cliff the postman.
But what about the actors who 
portrayed them? Did George 
Wendt and John Ratzenberger 
become so closely identified with 
their fictional alter egos that they 
should be able to control any com
mercial use of the characters?
The Supreme Court could decide 
as early as Monday whether it will 
hear an eight-year-old lawsuit by 
the two actors who ask that ques
tion. If it takes the case, it could set 
the stage for a landmark ruling on 
copyright law.
The court battle evolved from 
Paramount Pictures decision to 
license Host International to open 
bars with the Cheers name at air
ports across the country. The bars 
reproduced the Cheers ambiance 
and even featured robots who
with an aggressive tread. Both 
models are available in 15-, 16- and 
16.5-inch sizes.
NHTSA had no estimate of how 
many of the tires have been pro
duced. Bridgestone/Firestone did 
not respond to repeated requests 
for a total figure.
Bridgestone/Firestone officials 
appeared caught off-guard by 
Fridays announcement. They later 
issued a statement stressing the 
investigation is not a finding of a 
defect but rather is a process to 
determine the facts surrounding 
complaints that have been filed 
with NHTSA.
Spokeswoman Anitra Budd said 
the company will continue to have 
a policy of being open and respon
sive to NHTSA.
NHTSA, the agency in charge of 
auto safety, has seen a surge in tire 
complaints since the Firestone 
recall was announced.
Obviously, theres certainly a 
heightened sense of awareness 
about tire problems, and weve 
seen an increase of complaints 
across the board, said an NHTSA 
official who did not want to be 
identified. However, this increase 
is much more significant than 
weve gotten with any other brand. 
NHTSAs investigation report 
showed a total of 169 complaints 
involving the Firestone tires since 
January 1, 1998, with all but two 
occurring in the last two months.
GM spokesman Greg Martin said 
his company had received no 
reports or any information that 
suggests any problems with these
resembled Norm and Cliff.
Wendt and Ratzenberger object
ed to their likenesses being used on 
the robots and sued. The studio 
continued the idea, changing the 
character names to Bob and Hank.
The actors sued for damages 
under Californias right of publicity 
law, which protects celebrities from 
unwanted commercial exploita
tion. The law specifies that no one 
has a right to sell a product by using 
another persons name, signature, 
photograph or likeness.
Stars including Dustin Hoffman, 
Bette Midler, singer Tom Waits and 
game show hostess Vanna White 
have won damages and prevented 
use of their voices or images in ads 
under this law.
The complex Cheers issue rais
es the question of when an actor 
can be so closely identified with a 
character that the actor can 
demand control over the character.
Dale Kinsella, the lawyer repre
senting the actors, wants the case 
argued on the facts rather than the
tires.
We monitor the performance of 
our tires, and we havent seen any 
indication of a problem, he said.
Ford received harsh criticism 
after the Firestone recall was 
announced because it acknowl
edged ordering its own recall of the 
same tires in 16 other countries 
after receiving reports of problems. 
The foreign recalls began more 
than a year before the US recall, but 
Ford never alerted NHTSA.
Bridgestone/Firestone has been 
criticized for not ordering a recall 
sooner, even though the companys 
data on claims for injuries and 
property damage indicated prob
lems with the tires at least as early 
as 1997.
NHTSA also has been faulted for 
not being more vigilant in its over
sight of the companies.
NHTSA opens any investigation 
with a preliminary inquiry in which 
it gathers information from the 
manufacturer. The investigation 
can continue to an engineering 
analysis, where government engi
neers examine the product. That is 
the stage of NHTSAs investigation 
into the ATX, ATX II and Wilderness 
AT tires. An investigation eventual
ly can lead to a recall.
Bridgestone/Firestone voluntari
ly recalled the 6.5 million tires but 
balked at NHTSAs request to add 
another 1.4 million more tires to 
the list. NHTSA issued a consumer 
advisory for those tires on 
September 1, saying they had a 
high failure rate and could pose a 
safety problem.
overriding legal principles.
Noted First Amendment lawyer 
Floyd Abrams, who represents 
Paramount, wants'the Supreme 
Court to offer a legal delineation of 
the creative process in Hollywood.
To say that the people who cre
ate characters need approval of 
actors is to significantly denigrate 
the creative process by placing peo
ple who played parts in control of 
the characters, Abrams said.
Los Angeles attorney Douglas 
Mirell, who specializes in copyright 
and First Amendment law, said a 
ruling against Paramount could 
have far-reaching effects. For 
instance, a company producing toy 
action figures from movies such as 
Star Trek might have to get per
mission from actors before they 
could depict characters such as 
Captain Kirk and Mr. Spock.
The Cheers case has been 
before two courts twice, if the 
Supreme Court refuses to hear it, 
the case could be returned to 
California for trial.
Michelin settles 
tire lawsuit 
involving deaths
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP)
 Relatives of two women who 
died in a crash caused by the 
blowout of an allegedly defective 
tire have settled an eight-year 
lawsuit with Michelin North 
America.
Michelin attorney Mark 
Williams called the settlement 
appropriate, but would not 
release its terms.
Michelin denies any liability 
for the 1991 accident that killed 
Mary Eddings, 46, of Boynton 
Beach and Lisa Wright, 25, of 
Delray Beach. The women were 
riding in a van that overturned 
on Interstate 95.
Michelin said a 3-year-old tire 
made by Uniroyal Goodrich 
failed because of a faulty patch
ing job. Michelin acquired 
Uniroyal Goodrich in 1990.
A development in the case 
Friday could help others suing 
over the same type of light truck 
tire, said Jeff Liggio, the Wright 
familys attorney.
Liggio and Michelin agreed 
that Liggio has the right to pro
vide company files to other attor
neys with product liability cases 
involving the Uniroyal tire.
That order is a blueprint for 
lawyers and victims around the 
country, Liggio said. He has
Pope names first 
Chinese saints
VATICAN CITY (AP)  Pope 
John Paul II added the first 
Chinese Catholics to the growing 
roll of saints Sunday, declaring 
120 Chinese Catholics and for
eign missionaries martyrs in the 
churchs five-century-long strug
gle in that country.
Chinas state-run church saw 
the canonization of the 87 
Chinese and 33 foreign mission
aries as a public humiliation. 
But John Paul, looking wan 
and tired on a rainy morning in 
St. Peters Square, insisted the 
celebration is not the time to 
make judgments.
The church only intends to 
recognize that those martyrs are 
an example of courage and 
coherence for all of us, and give 
honor to the noble Chinese peo
ple, John Paul said.
The canonization falls on 
Chinas National Day celebrating 
the 51st anniversary of commu
nist rule in China. The timing 
angered Beijing, which is com
batting underground Catholic 
churches and other banned spiri
tual movements it sees as a chal
lenge to its authority.
Most of the 120 martyrs named 
Sunday died in the anti-Western, 
anti-Christian Boxer Rebellion of
claimed that Michelin concealed 
records of tread separation prob
lems on the Uniroyal Goodrich 
light truck tires.
In another case Friday, a Miami 
judge ordered Firestone/ 
Bridgestone Inc. to provide caseby-case evidence when it tries to 
have injury and warranty claims 
and trade secrets kept from plain
tiffs. The ruling came in a suit filed 
by a family who claims they were 
hurt in a 1997 accident caused by 
faulty tires.
Study finds drug 
treatment helps 
suppress HIV
(U-WIRE) CAMBRIDGE, Mass.  
Intense anti-viral drug therapy at 
the onset of HIV may help stunt the 
progression of the virus and protect 
the immune system, according to a 
study presented Thursday in the 
journal Nature.
The study, which was authored 
by Eric S. Rosenberg, a research fel
low in medicine affiliated with 
Harvard University, found that with 
immediate drug treatment, people 
infected with HIV may be able to 
stay off of medicine for a longer 
period of time.
The goal is to salvage the 
immune system before it is com
pletely wiped out, said Bruce D. 
Walker, an associate professor of 
medicine at Harvard and the super
visor of the study.
100 years ago.
China today still views the Boxer 
Rebellion as heroic resistance to 
imperial forces, and the slain mis
sionaries and Chinese Catholics as 
servants of the imperialists.
Ethnic Chinese Catholics assem
bled from around the world for the 
ceremony, joining a throng of thou
sands of other clerics, nuns, and 
scarfed pilgrims under umbrellas.
This should be a subject of glory 
and pride for the whole Chinese 
people, said the Reverand 
Anthony Chen, a China-born priest 
retired from the Chicago diocese. 
Its an honor, to me.
China broke ties with the Vatican 
in 1951 and forbids worship outside 
the state-run church. The Vatican 
and Beijing each appoint bishops to 
rival churches,, and Roman 
Catholics say Beijing continues to 
detain clerics and faithful in crack
downs on the Vatican-allied under
ground church.
The Vatican says that the canon
ization was timed to the feast day of 
St. Therese of Lisieux, patron saint 
of missionaries, and that its coin
ciding with Chinas National Day 
was unintentional.
The day brought the number of 
lists created in John Pauls 22-year 
papacy to 447. That far surpasses 
the 302 saints created by all previ
ous popes in the 500 years since 
formal procedures for canonization 
were set in the 1500s.
When patients were treated with 
Highly Active  Anti-Retroviral 
Therapy (HAART) at the onset of 
the virus, the study found that the 
treatment helped protect CD4 cells. 
These CD4 cells signal the growth 
of CTL cells, which can, in turn, kill 
HIV-infected cells.
If patients are immediately treat
ed with HAART, their immune sys
tems may receive enough of a boost 
to interrupt drug treatment for 
months at a time.
Sixteen patients were originally 
involved in the study, and all began 
HAART treatment within 72 hours 
of diagnosis. Of the 16, 15 experi
enced complete suppression of the 
virus for several weeks.
Five patients were able to take a 
drug holiday for an average of six 
and a half months as a result of the 
treatment.
This shows us what it can take 
to control the virus, Walker said. 
It gives us better perspective so we 
know what to aim for in creating a 
vaccine.
Walker said that currently, the 
study is limited to people who are 
still in the early stages of the virus, 
and have the flu-like symptoms 
that are associated with the onset 
of HIV.
He said the study could have 
important implications for future 
methods of combating HIV and 
AIDS.
Using modifications, this will 
be able to translate into a long
term way to treat the disease, 
Walker said.
Yacht sinks near 
Greek island
ATHENS, Greece (AP)  A yacht 
carrying 38 tourists, most of them 
American, sank after striking rocks 
off a Greek island early Sunday, 
officials said. All aboard were res
cued, but an 82-year-old American 
died of an apparent heart attack.
The Zeus III yacht sank shortly 
after midnight off the island of 
Naxos, about 100 miles southeast of j 
Athens. Naxos is located next to 
Paros island, near where a ferry 
boat sank last week, killing at least 
76 in one of Greeces worst mar
itime disasters.
The yacht was carrying 27 pas
sengers from the United States, one 
from Germany, and three from 
Greece. The crew was all Greek. 
They were all in good health, 
Merchant Marine Minister Christos | 
Papoutsis told reporters.
Coast Guard chief Andreas 
Syrigos told state-run NET televi
sion that the elderly man had 
apparently died of a heart attack, i 
Papoutsis said the local coroner 
would determine the cause of 
death.
A few hours before the Zeus III 
sank, the government had suspend
ed the operating licenses of more 
than 50 aging ferries in a safety 
crackdown ordered after the ferry 
accident earlier this week.
Corrections & Clarifications
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Ish Harshawat 
atx8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
Supreme Court may hear Cheers case
World News
UNIVERSITY
DENTAL C A R EJohn W. Hart, D.D.S.681-8011
gII nuO?cs orOeer 
Take the CMU Shuttle
Coffee is great for studying... but not for your smile!
TEETH CLEANING
$39
New Patients Only. An $80 value.
Includes basic cleaning, bitewing x-rays, gum evaluation, exam, and 
consultation. Addtl cleaning may be required in the presence of 
gum disease.
TEETH WHITENING
$199
Our lowest price ever! A $400 value.
 PWWeO ?tf y01eO u'ir0% wO?li
 mei'Cri ct G'ir ? Ye1 f?liRR
? 10% Courtesy for CMU Students and Faculty 
? Prompt Emergency Care ? Interest-Free Financing
PIZZA PARMA
We've Got Your Mom's Recipe
412-441-6600
217 South Highland Ave., SHADYSIDE PLAZA
 Pizza & Gourmet Pizza
 Soup & Salads
 Hoagies
 Pasta Dinners
 Desserts/Beverages
 Wings
 Appetizers
 Gyro
 Calzones
 Wedges
+ Credit Cards & Personal Checks Accepted 
+ Fresh Dough Daily & Fresh Veggies 
+ Free Delivery - Minimum $6 order 
+ Store Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 1 1am-1am 
Fri. & Sat. 11 am-2am
LARGE 16 12 CUT 
1 -2 LTR. POP 
&YOUR CHOICE OF 
1 DOZEN WINGS OR 
1 WHOLE HOAGIE
LAg-66 T r?.
p n0r &?Ccf 1crv ?tl 0rveO 0YYeOi
j 2 LARGE ; 
16" PIZZAS! 
|$10.99+tax|
I Toppings are extra I
p n0r &?Ccf 1crv ?tl 0CveO 0YYeOi p
30
WINGS
& ORDER OF 
BREADSTICKS 
$10.99 +tax
A n0r &?Ccf 1crv ?tl 0rveO 0YYeOi A

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 2, 2000
California law forbids sale 
of lecture notes on Web
(U-WIRE) LOS ANGELES  
Starting next year, students at 
University of California-Los 
Angeles and any other public col
lege campus in California will not 
be able to access lecture notes 
from commercial companies.
AB 1773, a bill Governor Gray 
Davis signed last week, prohibits 
the unauthorized recording and 
publication of a professors lecture 
at any UC, CSU or community col
lege campus.
Because they are authorized by 
the university, the bill does not 
affect ASUCLA lecture notes sold 
in Ackerman.
This bill is the first of its kind 
and states including Florida, New 
York and North Carolina have 
inquired about the new legisla
tion, according to Dennis Hall, leg
islative director to assembly
woman Gloria Romero, DMonterey Park, the bill's author.
The state of California already 
had a civil code that gives the right 
of a faculty member to own his or 
her lecture, Hall said.
He said this new bill was put 
into effect to stop the commercial 
exploitation of what is said during 
lectures, which are owned by the 
faculty.
Versity.com would recruit stu
dents who may or may not be 
enrolled in the campus, he said. 
They would get about 30 dollars 
a quarter.
Officials at Versity.com, an 
online note-taking company 
which recently merged with 
CollegeClub.com, said they are not 
sure whether or not they will con
tinue to post lecture notes on the 
Internet.
We are currently reevaluating 
that piece of business, said Lisa 
Wayne, spokeswoman for 
CollegeClub.com. No lecture notes 
are posted yet.
This distribution of notes on the 
Internet has been a concern for 
the university in the past.
At UCLA in Spring Quarter 
2000, one commercial Web site 
company hired approximately 30 
students and posted course lecture 
notes on their Web site without 
faculty authorization, said John 
Sandbrook, assistant provost for 
the College of Letters and 
Sciences.
Sandbrook said at least 12 facul
ty members registered complaints 
with the office of the provost, ask
ing for assistance or for them to 
intercede with the offending com
panies.
The company refused requests 
from me and from members of the 
faculty to halt this practice, he 
said.
But some professors dont think 
the commercial distribution of lec
ture notes on the Internet is a 
problem:
I certainly use lecture notes 
and I think theyre invaluable, 
said Robert Brown, professor of 
art history. I would think the bill 
is kind of not necessary if the lec
ture notes authorized by the uni
versity are not getting across to 
the students.
Brown, who writes his own lec
ture notes, said he believes that 
the problem can work itself out 
without government interference 
because students are capable of 
distinguishing between poor and 
well-written lecture notes.
Iftheyre good, then who 
cares? he said.
Sandbrook said several faculty 
members complained to him that 
the lecture notes on the Internet 
were inferior and in some cases, 
absolutely incorrect.
Students relying upon them 
would be learning the opposite of 
what was being taught, he said.
Hall said there were no means 
of checking over the notes for pre
cision.
But this problem is not unique 
to commercial Web sites, as stu
dents have found inaccuracies in 
the universitys lecture notes as 
well.
Occasionally we get complaints 
by people who are really meticu
lous, said Roberta Ross, a thirdyear mathematics student who 
works with Lecture Notes at the 
UCLA Store.
She added they sometimes get a 
bad note-taker, but this problem is 
taken care of earlier on in the 
quarter.
Sometimes the notes are not as 
accurate as the actual lecture is. I 
find a lot of typos, mostly in sci
ence classes, said Paolo Daniele, 
a third-year French and political 
science student who often obtains 
notes from the Web.
Nader visits University to discuss impact of 
large corporations on middle-class America
NADER, from page A1
from working with dictators because these dic
tators assure them of a cheap and steady work
force if corporations pay off state and local offi
cials. He claimed that global corporations are 
able to destroy the environments of these coun> 
tries by similar means.
According to Nader, solar energy, an easily 
sustainable form of energy, is ready to be put 
into use all over the world. He claims that the oil 
industry is working to stop the use of solar 
power, not because they dont believe that it is a 
viable source of energy, but because the sun can
not be centrally controlled. If Exxon could own 
the sun, wed have solar energy, Nader said.
While Nader blamed global corporations for 
worsening these problems, he also attacked cor
porations, particularly the pharmaceutical 
industry, for being indifferent to rampant dis
eases like malaria and tuberculosis that are 
killing many people in the third world. He stated 
that these companies only care about the bot
tom line, not helping people, which is why they 
do not use their considerable resources to help 
alleviate these diseases. He also criticized the 
U.S. government for financially supporting the 
pharmaceutical industry and then allowing 
those companies to charge whatever price they 
deem acceptable for treatments discovered with 
taxpayer money. The pharmaceutical industry 
is one gigantic leech on the U.S. taxpayers 
money, he said.
Nader claimed that many people know of 
these injustices, but feel that they dont have the 
time to fight them. He argued that todays media 
places too much emphasis on rushing through 
life, and can shorten attention spans. A whole 
generation of gazers is emerging, he said. 
Nader further criticized what he called corpo
rate commercial culture for homogenizing cul
ture and teaching those watching not to think, 
but to react with increasingly Pavlovian 
responses.
Universities are suffering much the same fate, 
according to Nader, who said that most universi
ties are now merely training schools where stu
dents learn how to get corporate jobs. These 
are the last years of your life where you will be 
able to rebel, question, without losing any
thing, said Nader to the mainly college-aged 
crowd.
As Nader spoke at CMU as part of AB Lectures, 
he was unable to address some of his more 
explicitly political stances until the question and 
answer period after the lecture because he was 
being paid to speak here. During this section, 
Nader voiced his support for a living wage and 
universal health care. Further, he came out 
against Oregons legalization of physician-assist
ed suicide, saying that the emphasis should be 
on better end-of-life care. He also made his 
stances clear on the drug war, stating that drug 
addicts should not be sent to jail any more than
Ralph Nader spoke to CMU students last Tuesday night about economics and business in the corpo
rate world. Because he was paid to make the appearance, he was not allowed to use his visit to pro
mote his Presidential candidacy.
alcoholics and spoke out for the decriminaliza
tion of marijuana.
In a press conference following his lecture, 
Nader spoke in further detail about how current 
drug policy should be changed. Drug addiction 
should never be criminalized, period, he said. 
Its a health problem. He also criticized politi
cians for not making this issue a part of the cur
rent election debate. Most of these politicians 
dont even have the guts to raise the issue, he 
said.
Also during the press conference, Nader dis
cussed his plan to convert military money, 
which he believes is wasteful and unnecessary, 
into money for public works, like mass transit 
and solar energy. When asked how Defense 
Department-supported schools, like Carnegie 
Mellon, would be affected, he responded that 
that money would also be converted, adding I 
dont think universities have any business 
being part of the military-industrial complex to
begin with.
Naders lecture attracted many long-time sup
porters, like Tanya Tarr, a senior SDS and histo
ry major. Tarr, also the AB Political chair, said 
that she first began admired Naders work in 
high school when she was a member of US 
Public Interest Research Group. I was really 
impressed by his breadth and depth of knowl
edge, said Tarr. Hes one of the last politicians 
who is knowledgeable about the issues and acts 
on it.
But not everyone in attendance was an outand-out Nader fan. Adam Gerard, a senior busi
ness major, said that he attended the speech 
because he doesnt know who to vote for in the 
upcoming presidential elections and wanted to 
see if Nader held beliefs similar to his own. After 
the lecture, Gerard says he still doesnt know 
who will get his.vote this November, but that I 
learned enough [about Nader] to know that I 
want to learn more.
Crime and Incident Report
9/23/00 SECURITY BREACH, 10:04 pm  A
CMU student in Mudge House called CMU police to 
report a suspicious character wearing blue shorts and 
blue shirt in the dorm. Two officers responded to the 
call. They found a white male matching the description 
crossing Forbes Avenue. The officers detained him and 
questioned him about his presence in Mudge House. 
He stated that the reason he went into the dorm was to 
use a bathroom. He also stated that he needed to go 
home and take his depression medication. While the 
man was being questioned, another CMU student 
called police to report that a male matching his 
description had attempted to open her dorm room 
door. The actor was transported to his home after ques
tioning. A CMU electrician temporarily repaired the 
faulty door lock which allowed the actor to enter pend
ing a permanent fix by the University Locksmith.
9/24/00 THEFT, 12:39 pm  Catering employ
ees notified Carnegie Mellon campus police of a theft 
which occurred the morning of the report. An 
unknown person had entered the cold storage area in 
the University Center. He or she then removed two 
packages of turkey, one of ham, two of roast beef, and 
one of beef tenderloin.
9/24/00 MEDICAL 5:58 pm  A CMU police 
officer, security guard, and CMU EMS responded to a 
medical call in the University Center. The victim had 
been playing racquetball without goggles. . The ball 
struck her in the eye, bruising it. She refused transport 
to a medical facility.
9/25/00 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 8:46 am  A
CMU employee called CMU Police to report damage to 
her office door. The responding officer found the door 
intact but with 20-30 dents on the lower half, appar
ently caused by kicking. No access was made to the 
Warner Hall office as a result of the damage.
9/25/00 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS, SUPPLE
MENTAL 2:00 pm A CMU police officer appeared 
in court for the public drunkenness hearing of a CMU 
student. The student pled guilty to the charge. The 
guilty student received a sentence of 25 hours of com
munity service, an eight to ten page term paper, and 
fines and court costs totaling $35.50.
9/25/00 MEDICAL, 2:14 pm  Police were noti
fied of an elderly male in the University Center who 
was vomiting into a trash can. The responding officer 
found him sitting in Kirr Commons. EMS was notified 
and the man was taken to Shadyside Hospital.
9/26/00 THEFT, 8:49 am  A man called to 
report a chair stolen from Hamburg Hall over the 
weekend of 9/22/00. Someone had entered room 
3001 and removed a black vinyl Ikea chair valued at
$120.00. The building will be checked for the lost 
chair.
9/26/00 THEFT, 8:51 am  A woman reported 
a printer stolen from Hamburg Hall over the weekend 
of 9/22/00. Someone entered room A202 and 
removed an HP LaserJet Printer valued at $1,610.00. 
There was no alarm in the area.
9/26/00 OUTSIDE AGENCY ASSIST, 5:08 pm
 A CMU police officer responded to a request from 
University of Pittsburgh Police, on Schenley Drive. The 
Pitt officers had observed a man in the act of cutting a 
cable lock on a bicycle and apprehended him. Upon 
questioning, the actor admitted that he had stolen 
roughly ten bicycles from various locations at CMU. He 
stated that he would arrive on campus between the 
hours of 11 am and 3 pm with a small pair of bolt cut
ters Wrapped in a sweatshirt and locate a bicycle to 
steal. The actor reported that he first learned how to 
steal bicycles from a friend of his brother. He also stat
ed that bicycle theft from CMU was so easy because 
no one ever saw me. A warrant was issued for the 
arrest of the friend of the brother.
9/27/00 MEDICAL 12:53 am  A student called 
Carnegie Mellon EMS to report the injury of another 
student. The victim had a laceration on her arm. She 
had been horsing around with another student who 
was holding an Exacto knife. The victim attempted to 
hit the other student and received a laceration on her 
right forearm. The patient refused transport to a med
ical facility.
9/29/00 STOLEN VEHICLE, 5:55 pm 
Campus Police officers were radioed to be on the look
out for a stolen red neon traveling on fifth Avenue and 
occupied by three males. The broadcast said that the 
cars occupants were going to Oakland to commit a 
crime. The Neon was soon observed by a campus 
police officer who then proceeded to follow the vehi
cle. The pursuit continued until the Neon turned into a 
driveway. The officer followed the Neon into the drive
way. The driver of the Neon then put the car into 
reverse, striking the front drivers side rearview mirror. 
At the same time, the officer put his car in reverse, 
scraping the passenger side rearview mirror in the 
process. The actor then got out of his car and the pur
suit continued on foot. The officer chased the actor in 
between several houses and jumped two fences before 
losing sight of him. At this point, the necessary infor
mation had been obtained from the Neon to confirm 
that it had been stolen. The vehicle owner was notified 
and the car was returned.
Compiled by 
Jonathan Pearce
Last Friday night over 200 students gathered in Rangos Hall to attend the Navaratri celebration, which was 
sponsored by the South Asian Student Association. Attending students participated in traditional dances. 
Read more about the event on page Bl.
2OcH? F?%?f?Du0trOcM'rcts 2fcr0O

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 2, 2000
p%W0Or?tr d?reiZ
EOcNHr5rv 3 
?'fser 10O,M00,i fcirOcM'ref 
EOcNHrA hrv 3 
u0%WCeref 10O,M00,i f'e r0 Eu
'eirc0tik 
u0tr?Hr iMr:?tfOe1-H%'-ef' 
0O ?&%:?tfOe1-H%'-ef'
WANT MONEY?
*ciief rve C?ir M'fsercts WO0Heiik 
ne1Cl Y'tfef 0Os?tcb?rc0tk
Participate in the 
1FC Fall 2000 
budgeting process!
FEDERAL LAW
PROHIBITS US FROMREPOSSESSING THE BRAINS
OF STUDENT LOAN DEFAULTERS.
Cohon develops Diversity Advisory Council
DIVERSITY, from page A1 
develop actions and programs to work towards 
the goal, and then finally, monitor the progress 
of the solutions and continue communications 
about the diversity issues. The attention of the 
council focuses on five working groups, primar
ily on the culture and climate at CMU. In the 
past, there had been concerns from students of 
different races, genders, religions, sexual orien
tations, and disabilities who did not find CMUs 
environment welcoming, respectful, or sup
portive, according to Cohon. We want to have 
diversity so that the community benefits from 
the multicultural nature of the institution, he 
said. Therefore, as outlined in the Diversity 
Advisory Councils agenda, they hope to over
come this problem and allow every individual 
the opportunity to reach his or her full poten
tial. The other four subcommittees work
around undergraduate and graduate student 
bodies, faculty, and staff.
Some of the activities and forums estab
lished since the initiation of the council are 
the University Lecture Series and the 
Interactive Theater. The University Lecture 
Series, started last year under the name 
Speaker Series, is funded by the ALCOA cor
poration to bring mostly African-American 
speakers to visit the campus and discuss vari
ous issues that relate to minority groups. 
Overall, its goal is to allow African-Americans 
to feel welcomed on campus and create the 
same feeling of understanding and warmth to 
high school students considering CMU.
The second program launched has been the 
Interactive Theater, an idea adopted from 
Cornell University but altered to specifications 
at CMU. It is basically a forum where actors
stage vignettes on issues concerning diversity 
on campus  tackling issues and concerns of 
students that may not usually be talked about. 
This activity, funded by the Hewlett Packard 
corporation, just finished a competition last 
spring where students were encouraged to 
enter written scenarios. The scenarios could 
serve as a basis for a short video about the type 
of situations that may arise when people with 
different backgrounds come together as a 
working community. One of the members 
working on the board for the Interactive 
Theater, Vice Provost Indira Nair said, Until we 
look into something to discover what bugs us, 
we wont address the hard issues. There were 
over 30 entries submitted last spring and the 
list of chosen vignettes should be out this week. 
From there, the heads of the program, Barbara 
Smith, the Vice President on Human Resources, 
and Pat Locklin, Associate Dean of CIT, will 
organize auditions for the performances of the 
vignettes to be videotaped and open for stu
dents and faculty to view.
Due to relatively low numbers of AfricanAmericans and Hispanics in the student body, 
the council directs many of its programs 
towards those two ethnic groups. Figures show 
that in the past, the University has attracted 
only about nine percent total minorities in its 
undergraduate applicant pool. CMUs peer 
institutions have at least 25 percent more 
minority undergraduate students, 55 percent 
more minority graduate students, and 35 per
cent more minority faculty members, thus 
placing the University in the lower half in rep
resentation of minorities and females in its 
community. Of course, change always takes 
time and this will be a long term step-by-step 
process as the council and the school work 
together to make the necessary improvisations, 
said Cohon.
Reflecting this movement, recruitment of 
minorities and females has continually pro
gressed at the Heinz School in its Masters pro
grams. Also, within the history department, 
there are 38 percent female and 14 percent 
African-American faculty, which is at the top 
among American research universities.
We need to be a place that celebrates diver
sity because being a more diverse institution 
will make us a better institution. Diversity is not 
just about numbers. Its about the culture of 
this institution. Its about whether people feel 
like they are a part of this community, said 
Cohon. When asked about concerns of affirma
tive action, Cohon firmly said, It is unfortunate 
for students to feel others are here only based 
on race. There is no single student who does not 
deserve to be here. All in all, as students of this 
campus and community, we will see the 
progress of enhancing multicultural awareness 
here at CMU.
n'Oc *cCCeODqv0r0 or?YY
Indira Nair, the vice Provost for education, sits on the Diversity Advisory Council formed by President 
Cohon. The council is working on projects like speaker's series to promote diversity on campus.
News Briefs
BUT OUR LOBBYIST ISKING ON IT.
gram Williams believes will be 
very popular.
Williams commended Greenberg 
for increasing die size and quality 
of the graduate student body as 
well. At the graduate level, 
Mathematical Sciences offers an 
informal program in applied analy
sis, and programs in pure and 
applied logic, algorithms combina
torics and optimization, scientific 
computing, and mathematical 
finance.
Jim has worked hard to get 
outside funding for the graduate 
programs, said Williams. The 
$2.5 million Vertical Integration 
of Research (VIGRE) grant from 
the National Science Foundation, 
awarded jointly with the 
Department of Statistics, is one of 
the larger sources of funding for 
graduate education and Jim was 
instrumental in helping to bring 
that grant to Carnegie Mellon, 
said Williams.
As a former head of the 
Mathematical Sciences
Department, I am particularly 
enthusiastic about the depart
ments new directions, including 
the hiring of six new tenure track 
faculty who bring much promise to 
the department, Williams said.
Greenberg came to Carnegie 
Mellon in 1995 from the University 
of Maryland in Baltimore County 
to become department head. He 
earned his doctorate degree from 
Brown University.
Power loss results 
in cancellations
A power outage in Scaife Hall 
forced the University to close the 
building and cancel all classes 
that would meet there last 
Monday, September 25. Facilities 
Management Services (FMS) 
was called to the scene to investi
gate the situation. The building 
was inspected and electrical and 
AC mechanics were called to 
start up building operation 
equipment. The building was 
reopened the morning of 
Tuesday, September 26.
Compiled by 
o?O? orcCCe
Math department
reappoints head
Professor Jim Greenberg was 
recently reappointed head of the 
Mathematical ' Sciences
Department for a second fiveyear term.
Since he was first appointed 
department head in September 
1995, Jim has energized the 
department in a number of excit
ing ways, including strengthening 
undergraduate education, increas
ing the size and quality of the 
graduate student population, and 
securing continued funding for 
excellent research programs, said 
William Williams, acting dean of 
the Mellon College of Science.
Greenberg has made many 
improvements in the undergradu
ate academic program since his 
initial appointment, such as 
resuming an affiliation with the 
math fraternity, Pi Mu Epsilon, 
and creating a regular math collo
quium. The math departments 
computer cluster has received sig
nificant improvements and the 
department opened an undergrad
uate student lounge in collabora
tion with the Physics Department.
Williams said Greenberg has 
made several significant enhance
ments to undergraduate teaching, 
which is by far the largest part of 
the teaching load for the depart
ment.
Jim has put in place a number 
of innovations designed to 
enhance the quality of teaching 
and to increase the retention rate, 
Williams said. For example, to 
improve student placement in cal
culus, the first-year calculussequence was split into four mini
semesters. This makes advanced 
placement much more effective 
and minimizes the time lost by stu
dents who do not achieve a pass
ing grade.
Greenbrerg has also con
tributed to the creation of new 
undergraduate tracks in discrete 
mathematics and logic, and in 
Computational and applied 
mathematics. Plans also call for a 
bachelors of science program in 
computational, finance, a pro
Of course your education can never be taken back But failure to repay a student loan does 
have repercussions (it stinks to get turned down for credit cards, car loans and mortgages). 
So if things get tight, keep your head and contact PHEAA. We can help.
Leam more at jyoucandeal-or call1.800.328.0355PHEAACreating Access to Educatimi
I

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 2, 2000
Sydney Olympics come to 
end with praise, memoriesUMass recognizes Carnegie Mellon professor
REDDY, from |; Al
ware engineering.
Reddy was chosen for his excellence in his 
research in artificial intelligence and humancomputer interaction. When you get old 
enough, [you have] the cumulative things to 
honor contributions - things happen to older 
professors, said Reddy. He mentioned Herbert 
Simon, a professor of CS and psychology, as an 
example. He is the only Noble Prize winner at 
CMU, in Economics, and he also has an hon
orary degree.
Reddy has worked on a number of projects in 
the area of Artificial Intelligence and HumanComputer Interaction. I work on computers 
that can see and hear. He is currently working 
on creating an online universal digital library 
where one can access classical books by authors 
such as Shakespeare and Dickens. The idea is 
to capture all the human knowledge so it is 
accessible to anyone and anywhere.
Another project Reddy is working on is invisi
ble computing. This is a way to create the next 
generation of computer infostructures. Reddy 
explained that desktops and screens will disap
pear and an electric grid will need to be created. 
The wall computer would talk to a body com
puter, such as a palm pilot, through wireless 
connection without any explicit commands. For 
example, if one walks into a room with a wall 
computer with his body computer, information 
such as email will be ready to access in the body 
computer.
Reddy is also working on a distance learning 
project. The question is: do we have to go to a 
classroom to learn? Could we learn when we 
want to learn? What would I do if I have an 
immediate question? What set of things that 
would evolve from the result of technology? 
asked Reddy. He added that he would like to see 
a transformation in the process of learning and 
education.
In spite of his degree, Reddy does not see a 
change in his career. Its nice to be recognized. 
Its like you take a course and you get an A. It is 
good and thats all it is, he said.
Daniel Siewiorek, Buhl Professor of electrical 
and computer science and co-director of 
Human-Computer Interaction, describes Reddy 
as a very dynamic and visionary leader. He is 
the spark plug of the school of CS and is respon
sible for our reputation, he said. When we 
first started Robotics, we needed to build parts, 
such as the arm. [The process] needed a good 
amount of time, at least six months. Dr. Reddy 
called and said, why cant we do it in 24 hours. 
 He said that the project started in 1982 and by 
1989 they had succeeded in creating a machine 
to do a design in 24 hours? He challenges peo
ple to do things that seem impossible. He sees 
potential in people. He is a great leader and I 
love working with him, said Siewiorek.
Reddy received a BE degree from the Guindy 
Engineering College of the University of Madras 
(currently named Anna University), in India, 
1958. He then went on to receive his MTech 
degree at the University of New South Wales, 
Australia, and in 1966, he received his PhD -at 
Stanford University. He was dean of Computer 
Science for approximately nine years and 
stepped down last year as James Morris filled 
the position. Before that he was the head of 
Robotics. From 1960-63, Reddy worked as an 
Applied Science Representative for IBM Corp.,
in Australia. Starting his teaching career at 
Stanford University in 1966, he came to CMU as 
an associate professor of Computer Science in 
1969. He became a University professor in 1984 
and was named the Simon University Professor 
in 1992. Reddy is currently a professor teaching 
multimedia which is a graduate level lecture 
here at CMU.
In addition to his recent honorary degree, 
Reddy was awarded the Legion of Honor by 
President Mitterand of France in 1984. The pres
ident flew to campus in honor of Reddy. He has 
also been awarded Doctor of Science Honoris 
Causa from SV University in India, Universite 
Henri-Poincare in France, University of New 
South Wales in Australia, and Jawaharlal Nehru 
Technological University in India.
During his spare time Reddy likes to read 
books and loves to talk to his grandchildren. 
Reddy said he feels one of the most important 
things in life is education and learning. There 
is huge opportunity for revelation of leaning on 
society when you see high school students not 
performing as well as the international stu
dents, said Reddy.
Reddy said he believes in revolutionizing the 
improvement of learning through interactive 
work and thinking. Society has not yet accept
ed these insights. It has not been yet widely 
accepted by the teaching establishment. We all 
need to do whatever we need to do to change 
that mindset. It will not be overnight but tens 
of years  but its a worthwhile thing to do, 
said Reddy.
u0'Oreil m?G meffl
Raj Reddy received an honorary doctoral degree of science from the University of Massachusetts. He is 
currently the Herbert A. Simon University Professor of Computer Science and Robotics.
University provides immunization services for students
SYDNEY, Australia (AP)  
From the fields of play to 
Sydneys spectacular harbor, 
Australia and the worlds athletes 
cut loose Sunday, bidding good
bye to two weeks of sporting tri
umphs and doping scandals  a 
memorable Summer Olympics 
proud to claim the coveted title of 
best games ever.
Fireworks rolled east across the 
dark Sydney sky, an 8.5-mile 
fuse that carried the Olympic 
torchs symbolic light from this 
years Olympic Stadium along 
barges in Homebush Bay to a 
jam-packed downtown area, 
where the majestic Harbor 
Bridge exploded like a giant 
Roman candle in a festive fusil
lade of pyrotechnics.
Seven years ago, I said, And 
the winner is Sydney,  said Juan 
Antonio Samaranch, the retiring 
president of the International 
Olympic Committee. Well, what 
can I say now? Maybe, with my 
Spanish accent, Aussie, Aussie, 
Aussie. 
The crowd of 100,000 thun
dered the response now known 
across the world: Oi! Oi! Oi!
Olympic Organizers wanted a 
relaxed closing show that let 
competitors and spectators send 
the games off in style. And a rau
cous, untethered, schticky party 
they got.
The events veered oddly 
among comedy (slapstick rou
tines), ancient ritualism (Greek 
priestesses in flowing dresses) 
and the simply hallucinogenic (a 
giant upended fish skeleton and 
shrimp on bicycles)  testament 
to what choreography, technolo
gy and an arenaful of enthusias
tic spectators can do.
The festivities began minutes 
after Elias Rodriguez of 
Micronesia ran into Olympic 
Stadium, ending the mens 
marathon and freeing the arena 
for athletes to swarm in. And if 
anyone worried these would be 
dubbed the Drug Games, it did
nt show Sunday night: The 
Olympic flame went dark, but the 
partying went on.
Olympics-giddy fans and vol
unteers packed a stadium crack
ling with energy. They did the 
wave, flashed flashlights by the 
thousands into a crystal-clear 
night and chanted that spirited 
Aussie chant.
And with cameras and carefree 
smiles, over 10,000 athletes 
flooded the biggest Olympic 
arena of all. Swimming gold 
medalist Ian Thorpe, in a red 
coat, carried the Australian flag, 
waving it to the music. It was a 
fun, festive end to the games. 
And, boy, was it weird.
Thirteen-year-old Nikki 
Webster, who journeyed through
50.000 years of Australian histo
ry in the opening ceremony, 
returned to star in the more fes
tive wrapup, which grew pro
gressively more surreal. If 
Salvador Dali ever held a home
coming parade, it might have 
looked like this.
A lawnmower crashed through 
a stage and hundreds of band 
members  on purpose  in a 
mass chase torn from a Buster 
Keaton movie. There emerged 
outsized plastic dancers, robots 
on stilts and an angry inflatable 
kangaroo pushed by trolls in 
halos.
Athletes batted around a behe
moth eyeball. And nobody 
seemed to mind. Lets party, the 
scoreboard pulsed.
The ending ceremony was 
broadcast live on giant screens 
across Sydney and Australia. It 
featured a flyover by two Royal 
Air Force F-llls, fireworks 
artists from five continents,
7.000 performers, and a parade 
of Australian icons from Greg 
Norman and Elle MacPherson to 
country singer Slim Dusty and 
the aboriginal rocker Yothu 
Yindi. Also included: Paul 
Crocodile Dundee Hogan, a 
good-natured symbol of the 
struggle over the nations chang
ing image.
Australia expended great 
efforts showing itself off during 
these Olympics to help visitors 
and a TV audience of billions 
understand that the worlds 
southernmost continent is more 
than kangaroos and boomerangs. 
But, mindful of the tourism dol
lar, it also recognizes that popculture images still sell  and 
sell well.
Thus the closing featured the 
Men at Work song Land Down
Under. It featured the rubber 
thong, Australias beach 
footwear of choice. It featured a 
tune any Olympic visitor cannot 
fail to recognize  the unofficial 
national anthem, Waltzing 
Matilda.
The verdict was certain and 
confident: Australia has success
fully introduced itself to the 
world.
All Australians are entitled to 
feel proud of our athletes, our 
country and ourselves, and what 
our nation has achieved during 
this period, Olympics minister 
Michael Knight said.
As with any Olympics, the 
2000 Summer Games offered a 
dizzying selection of memorable 
moments to take home - and 
some that everyone wishes they 
could forget.
From the pool to the track, the 
baseball field to the wrestling 
ring, athletes made the marks of 
a lifetime.
It was the Olympics of the 
Thorpedo. Of Cathy Freeman, 
the aboriginal sprinter who 
shouldered a nations racial bur
den. Of Eric Moussambani, the 
swimmer from Equatorial Guinea 
who barely finished and captured 
the imagination of an underdogfriendly world.
It was an Olympics of whoosh
es  Thorpe and Susie ONeill 
and Jenny Thompson and Inge de 
Bruijn whooshing through the ; 
water. Marion Jones and Maurice 
Greene whooshing along the 
track. Stacy Dragila and Tatiana 
Grigorieva whooshing over the 
bar and claiming spots in polevaulting history.
It was an Olympics of surpris
es and unexpected twists: the 
United States softball team ral
lying for gold after a series of 
stunning losses; American 
wrestler Rulon Gardner defeat
ing the most formidable foe of 
all, Russian Alexander Karelin; 
the U.S. mens basketball team 
nearly falling to Lithuania; 
Lance Armstrong losing the 33- 
mile time trial to his close friend 
Viacheslav Ekimov of Russia.
It was an Olympics of firsts, 
especially for women. 
Trampoline and tae kwon do and 
synchronized diving made their 
debuts, as did womens pole 
vault, womens water polo and 
womens weightlifting.
And it was the Olympics of 
doping and cheating, showcased 
as never before thanks to more 
stringent IOC testing policies and 
punishments. Positive tests 
claimed five medals, including a 
gold captured by Andreea 
Raducan, the little Romanian girl 
whose doctor prescribed cold 
medicine that turned out to be 
banned.
During the Olympic games 
themselves, athletes underwent 
approximately 3,600 tests  
more than in any previous games. 
Less than 0.5 percent tested posi
tive for banned substances; offi
cials say that percentage is 
declining.
It shows that a) athletes are 
more frightened, and b) that the 
testing is improved, said Jacques 
Rogge, vice chairman of the IOC 
Medical Commission.
These were the final games for 
Samaranch, whose wife died 
hours after the opening ceremo
ny. He went back to Spain to bury 
her and returned a day later. He 
has praised the Sydney games 
throughout.
He said the games could not 
have been better.
I am proud and happy to pro
claim that you have presented to 
the world the best Olympic 
Games ever, Samaranch said, 
and the stadium shook with 
cheers. He has applied that 
moniker to games in the past; a 
notable aberration was Atlanta, 
which he called simply most 
exceptional.
And the 2004 Olympics? 
Despite a slow start, Athens got 
an endorsement Sunday from 
the IOC, whose director-general 
said there is no Plan B. Some 
speculated the next Summer 
Games might return here if 
Greece wasnt properly pre
pared.
I know that Greece lost time, 
said Gianna AngelopoulosDaskalaki, who helped secure 
Athens bid and was re-enlisted 
anew as head of the organizing 
committee.
But whatever it will need, 
she said, we will do it.
IMMUNIZATION, from page Al 
episodes of meningococcal menin
gitis each year which result in 300 
deaths. 100-125 of those cases 
occur on college campuses and 
result in 5-15 deaths each year. 
While the disease is quite rare and 
CMU has not experienced a case 
since 1995, the effects can be so 
severe that the meningitis vaccine 
is gaining popularity  especially 
on college campuses. Keep in
INTEL, from page A1 
left unfinished with the intention 
that the space could be used for 
community needs in the future. 
According to Jeff Bolton, vice presi
dent for Business and Planning, 
CMU has not had enough money to 
complete necessary renovations to 
make the space usable. In addition, 
Bolton said that according to the 
current budget, there were no 
other plans to spend money on ren
ovating the basement for the next 
several years.
From a selfish perspective [this] 
would be an ideal situation. [The 
basement] has been vacant for four 
years, said Michael Murphy, dean 
of Student Affairs.
Bolton said that if the solution 
center moved into the basement, it 
would probably reside there for 
three to five years, during which 
time Intel would pay for any maintenence for the facility and related 
utilities. After that time, the 
University could then use the part 
of the basement that had been ren
ovated. Anderson said that the 
solution center would move some
where near campus. The biggest 
cost involved in renovation of the 
basement, according to Murphy 
and Bolton, is installing the neces
sary ventilation and heating.
mind that the incidence of menin
gitis is small, said Student Health 
Services Director Anita Barkin. 
The scariest part is that meningitis 
is a disease that can kill. A person 
appears to have the flu, but can be 
in the intensive care unit within 
hours.
Advocates for meningitis vacci
nation point to the military, which 
virtually wiped out the incidence of 
the disease in 1971 after imposing
The center would probably work 
on 6-12 week solutions to e-commerce problems relating to net
works, hardware, software, as well 
as system integration with user 
interfaces. The center would work 
with various departments such as 
the School of Computer Science 
and Business Department to devel
op these solutions. Anderson said 
that questions of intellectual prop
erty would be dealt with on a caseby-case basis. Faculty and students 
working on projects might have the 
ability to publish papers and con
duct research on the products they 
work on without having to pay roy
alties. In addition, Intel could 
share some of its existing intellec
tual property for CMUs internal 
use.
According to Anderson, Intel 
donates more money to CMU than 
any other University. She said that 
other Universities were considered 
for the center, but she did not dis
close their names.
CMU is easy to work with [and] 
tends to think out of the box, said 
Anderson. She said that because of 
the costs involved in developing 
new centers, she does not see an 
actual lab being built on another 
campus like the one being built at 
CMU.
vaccinations on all of its recruits  
many of whom live in dormitory 
accommodations similar to those of 
college students. Vaccination is 
not going to be mandatory, but 
people have the right to be educat
ed about the disease and make 
informed decisions about whether 
to receive the vaccine, said Barkin.
The campus immunization pro
gram drew 1,600 CMU students 
last year, and with continued distriBolton said he sees the Intel 
Initiative as a way to broaden the 
Universitys already strong rela
tionship with the company. Bolton 
said the University sees Intel as a 
good strategic partner in the long 
run, and sees the solution center as 
beneficial for the Pittsburgh com
munity.
Issues were raised at a meeting 
with student leaders concerning 
signage of the solution center, and 
any disruptions that the center 
might cause. Other topics that were 
discussed included the possibility 
of opportunities for the community 
such as Intel offering more student 
internships and sponsoring lec
tures on campus.
Plans for the solution center are 
still in the discussion phase. Bolton 
said that CMU would have a mem
ber on the team that helps renovate 
the space to make sure it can be 
usable for the University after Intel 
leaves it.
Although Bolton and Murphy 
said the Intel Initiative is still in the 
discussion phase, Anderson said 
that she hopes that in the next few 
weeks the two sides can come to an 
agreement.
The only thing that has not been 
resolved yet is that Jeff has to have 
a conversation with the students,
bution of disease information by 
Student Health Services, a high 
turnout is expected again this year. 
A meningitis vaccine is $75 and a 
flu vaccine is $10. Both can be 
billed to CMU student accounts or 
to major credit cards. If students 
are unable to attend the upcoming 
immunization program on 
Tuesday, they may call Student 
Health Services to schedule vacci
nations.
she said.
Erin Fitzgerald, student body 
president, a junior in electrical and 
computer engineering and music, 
and a summer intern for Intel, said 
that the solution center could raise 
some concern among the student 
body.
I expect there will be a strong 
resistance to having such a corpo
rate environment on campus, she 
said. She added that when she 
briefly mentioned it at a Student 
Senate meeting she got many 
strange looks, although no one 
asked her questions about it after
wards.
We go out of our way never to 
interfere with the objectivity of the 
University, said Anderson in 
response to the issue of commer
cialization on campus. She added 
that CMU will have no obligations 
to Intel and that the work that goes 
on at the solution center will be 
non-commercial and researchbased.
My biggest concern is how its 
going to affect students in the 
University Center, said Fitgerald 
who added that she wants to make 
sure that the original intention of 
the UC, a place for students, is 
upheld.
Intel may move into UC basement for private use

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
2, October 2000 THE TARTAN Page A6
Wireless network adds 
benefit to University
In the past two years, Computing Services 
has done a great job of implementing initia
tives to provide wireless network access 
around campus. Wireless Andrew has 
become the largest university-based wireless 
network, making CMU one of the most tech
nologically advanced campuses in the world. 
Computing Services has taken this one step 
further by adding virtual clusters in Posner 
Hall and the University Center. In the near 
future, Computing Services must continue 
providing improved wireless services, 
including more virtual clusters and off-cam
pus access to the wireless network.
The Virtual Cluster pilot program affords 
students an opportunity to check their email 
and surf the web for a short time on a laptop. 
Currently, the number of computers is limit
ed and students can only borrow a computer 
for 45 minutes. The functionality of the lap
tops is also restricted, but Computing 
Services will be expanding them in the near 
future. A similar Virtual Cluster is in place at 
GS1A where students can use one of 50 avail
able laptops for business classes and related 
applications for the whole day.
By adding these services, the school makes 
expensive equipment available to everyone 
on campus. With this in mind, Computing 
Services should expand its Virtual Cluster 
program to several more locations and col
leges on campus. By doing this, everyone can 
benefit from the wireless infrastructure.
The wireless network has made new ways
of learning and accessibility possible. Because 
of generous grants and donation of equip
ment some classes will soon use small hand
held devices equipped with wireless Internet 
access for interactive learning. The applica
tions for this type of technology range from 
mundane word processing to the ability to 
locate project members anywhere on campus 
using features of the wireless system. 
Departments should start taking advantage of 
the wireless network, using it to improve edu
cation and communication among students.
Andrew Wireless is not always perfect. 
Computing Services should expand services 
so its connection speeds are not affected in 
some of the more congested areas. More 
importantly, on and off-campus residents 
should be able to equally benefit from the 
network and Internet access while in the 
classroom as well as while they are in their 
rooms. The network should be expanded to 
locations around the immediate area. It also 
should be a priority for all students to have 
some sort of Internet access available to 
them  not just the archaic dialup modem 
pools. Dialup access is not currently suffi
cient for students needs. Services such as 
DSL are expensive, and not available in all 
areas. Though the costs would be significant, 
CMU should consider providing off-campus 
access for members of the University. This is 
the natural next step in CMUs objective to be 
the most technologically superior university 
in the world.
CMU Web site requires 
overhaul to its design
For what its worth, the Universitys web
site promotes Carnegie Mellon University 
rather successfully. The site functions as our 
identity to the outside world. Unfortunately, 
inconsistent page design and unnatural and 
confusing navigation mar that identity. This 
is not solely the fault of University Public 
Relations or the Media Design Center, who 
jointly maintain CMUs online presence; in 
fact, these issues are caused by fundamental 
problems with the cohesion of the various 
departments and colleges. In spite of this, 
the current website is far from a respectable 
representation of the level of thought, plan
ning, and ingenuity found at CMU. It has 
been two years since the redesign of 
Carnegie Mellons website, and it is time 
again to reconsider the successes and fail
ures that have been made and how best to 
proceed.
Public Relations goal for the last site 
redesign was to focus on marketing to differ
ent major user groups. Since 60% of all traf
fic was coming from outside of CMU, this 
decision made sense. The user group break
down on the front door dictates the overall 
site hierarchy and how to find information, 
which was previously visitors most common 
complaint. Now the issue is with design con
sistency and navigation.
There is no obvious vision or graphic phi
losophy behind the site other than to serve 
the ends (however valid) of the Public 
Relations department. Part of this is by 
design  as the site needs to promote 
CMU but more importantly University offi
cials need to realize the impact these design 
decisions have on the credibility and image 
the University presents both externally and 
internally. Departmental sites have their 
own agenda, seemingly rejecting the funda
mental concept of a university. All sorts of 
different color schemes, font faces, and even
uses of the Carnegie Mellon mark appear. 
Even the Admissions site still uses the old, 
outdated style from the previous design.
Beyond issues of consistency, the lack of 
an effective search function plagues the use
fulness of the site. The newly added Google 
search adds improved functionality but fails 
to address the need for key-worded searches 
or department-specific queries.
One part of the solution to a more inte
grated web site already exists; last May a 
Student Advisory Committee (SAC) was 
formed to investigate and make sugges
tions to improve University correspon
dence and marketing, specifically through 
the CMU website. One of the groups 
objectives is to solicit student opinions on 
how to improve the current CMU website 
as well as determine what features to 
include on a CMU student-oriented web
site. While the SAC addresses many imme
diate issues and signifies an acknowledge
ment of that the site need? work, 
University Relations has an obligation to 
come up with a lasting solution for recur
rent, sitewide problems.
Specifically, efforts need to include the 
development of a process for creating web
sites under the CMU domain. Currently, 
developing a site for under the cmu.edu 
umbrella is haphazard and unstructured: 
There are few, if any, standards in place gov
erning design, style, and content, and those 
guidelines that do exist are not enforced. 
This new process would ensure that consis
tency could be maintained across the CMU 
network while giving the various publishing 
groups autonomy to create sites that work 
for them. While problems are inevitable 
along the way, CMUs web site will move ever 
closer to becoming a more useful, compre
hensive and representative place for CMU 
web visitors to call home.
THE TARTANCarnegie Mlions Student Newspaper Since 1Q06 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ISH HARSHAWAT, Editor-in-Chief
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTINA KOSHZOW, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
ANDY FRANCIS, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed. 
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
ASEEM GUPTA, Online Editor 
CHRIS MESSINA, Online Design Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager
JENNIFER LIU, Advertising Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Production Manager 
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
MATT BRUN, Special Projects Manager 
BETH POWELL, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
VINCENT CHAN, Asst. Advertising Manager 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Assistant Photo Editor 
SARA HENNEBERGER, Asst. Production Mgr.
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Elaine Boland, Behnam Farahpour, Bradley Fearn, 
Cassandra Knight, Christopher May, Lorelei Laird, 
Jonathan Pearce, Anne Ray, Nathan Steinwald
l
'irct o'cii?DaOr 2fcr0OLetters to the Editor
In justification of guns Shame on you, DTD
Editor:
I wish to respond to Mr. 
Civilized man no longer needs guns in 
society. He does not know who Mr. 
Flemings bad people are. Perhaps a 
sampling of events reported in the Crime 
and Incident Reports and CMU Police 
Alerts over the past four years will be illu
minating: students were robbed at gun
point in Schenley Park and Oakland; a 
student was attacked at knifepoint on 
Morewood Avenue; a student was sexual
ly assaulted in front of her Oakland apart
ment; a student was attacked from the 
bushes on Morewood Avenue; and lets 
not forget the serial rapist.
Mr. Bajaj believes a civilized society 
does not need firearms, that their propa
gation is a return to when might made 
right. He has it backward. Is it civilized 
to render the physically weak defenseless 
against those who are physically 
stronger? Are they not still vulnerable to a 
thug brandishing only his hands and feet? 
Marcus Tullius Cicero, a statesman in the 
Roman Republic, wrote: There exists a 
law ... inborn in our hearts ... which lays 
down that, if our lives are endangered by 
... violence or armed robbers any and 
every method of protecting ourselves is 
morally right. When weapons reduce 
them to silence, the laws no longer expect 
one to await their pronouncements. For 
people who decide to wait for these will 
have to wait for justice too  and mean
while they may suffer injustice first 
(Cicero, Selected Political Speeches 
222; trans. M. Grant, 1969).
Mr. Bajaj is correct about the responsi
bilities of those who carry firearms (or 
any weapon) for defense. Those who are 
armed should practice regularly, and 
understand the consequences of the use 
 and misuse  of their arms.
Regarding when one may use deadly 
force, the Commonwealth has defined it, 
and punishes those who wrongly exercise 
it. Mr. Bajaj professes concern about 
firearm accidents; he should be more con
cerned about car accidents.
Accidents with firearms are historically 
rare and become rarer every year.
I am not free because I own firearms, I 
am free because I can own firearms.
Aaron Greenhouse
Graduate Student, Computer Science
Editor:
In the first three weeks of the semes
ter, the fraternities and sororities 
advertised their rush activities on the 
public bulletin boards of the universi
tys buildings. The Delta Tau Delta fra
ternity adopted a particularly eye
catching advertising campaign: each of 
their posters featured a picture of an 
attractive woman in a tiny bikini. These 
pictures took up about half of the 
16xll posters, printed in black on 
bright yellow paper.
Some complaints about these posters 
apparently found their way to the fra
ternity, for Delta Tau Deltas third 
poster offered a response. This poster 
again shows a picture of a woman in a 
bikini, although the face has been 
replaced by the face of a man. The 
word censored is printed across the 
figure, and the following text appears 
underneath:
Delta Tau Delta would like to apolo
gize to anyone who was offended by our 
previous posters. We assure you that we 
in no way intended for our posters to be 
taken as anything other than tasteful, 
artistic expression ... [original ellipsis] 
As such, we present this poster, which 
we hope you will find to be more politi
cally correct. Thank you for your con
sideration.
It doesnt take a scholar of rhetoric to 
recognize that this is no apology at all, 
but is a contemptuous rejection of the 
complaints. The fraternity responds as if 
the complaints are groundless. We would 
like to use this forum to explain the 
grounds on which we object to the 
posters.
The Delta Tau Delta posters are 
advertisements for that fraternity. 
When the fraternity chose just those 
pictures to advertise itself, it was trying 
to-convey something about itself, about 
the attitudes, interests or desires of its 
members. What message is this maleonly organization trying to convey in 
using pictures of semi-nude women to 
attract new male members? The mes
sage is perhaps indeterminate, for such 
is the nature of messages conveyed 
through advertizing imagery. Perhaps 
the fraternity is saying: Join our frater
nity if you like to see women in this 
state of (un)dress! Perhaps they are
saying: When members of our fraterni
ty think about women, this is how we 
think of them. Perhaps they simply 
think that the pictures are a good way 
to attract the attention of their poten
tial new members. But this use .of 
womens bodies makes many women 
feel ill at ease. It is at best uncomfort
able and at worst threatening to know 
that a group of men in our community 
is using this view of women as a selling 
point.
Individuals, of course, have the right 
to hold views which others find objec
tionable, and to voice such views to 
others. But the right of free expression 
is checked by the rights of individuals 
and groups to protect themselves from 
harmful public speech. The women 
(and men) who study and work here 
are legally entitled to an environment 
free of gratuitous invocations of their 
sexuality, for such invocations con-' 
tribute to the creation of a sexist work 
environment. The Delta Tau Delta 
posters violate this right.
As already noted, some people have 
already voiced a protest, and the frater
nity has responded with ridicule. This 
is the only interpretation for an apolo
gy which is accompanied by a repeti
tion of the very behavior which has 
been objected to. This response raises 
troubling issues beyond the sexism of 
the original two posters. All members 
of this community have the right to 
complain about speech or actions 
which they find offensive. This right is 
compromised when complaints are met 
with contempt, for faced with the 
threat of ridicule and retaliation, many 
will naturally choose to keep their 
legitimate opinions to themselves. A 
serious complaint must be met by a 
serious response, be it an acceptance or 
a rejection of the complaint. Neither 
has yet been offered by the fraternity.
Mandy Simons, Asst. Professor, Dept, 
of Philosophy; Cristina Bicchieri, Prof., 
Depts. of Philosophy and Social and 
Decision Sciences; Lisa GershkoffStowe, Asst. Professor, Dept, of 
Psychology; Martha Harty, Adjunct 
Faculty, Center for the Advancement of 
Applied Ethics; David Rakison, Asst. 
Professor, Dept, of Psychology; Richard 
Schemes, Assc. Professor, Dept, of 
Philosophy
Elections need Iron President competition
Christian Restifo
Ah, fall is here once again. 
My favorite time of year, fall 
brings to mind evening fires in 
the living room, pumpkin pie, 
the honey brown ale brewing 
in my basement, and the 
Steelers ongoing attempt to 
get the first round draft pick 
next year by losing as many 
games as possible.
This fall, however, is extra 
special. We have an election 
this year, which means we 
once again get to see democ
racy in action: Candidates 
lacking in any substance 
whatsoever are going to be 
selected by people only 
slightly more intelligent 
than pond scum. Yet, this 
time, I have an idea for a 
great political solution that 
would stimulate true debate, 
force candidates to come up
with workable solutions, 
and engage a disenfran
chised electorate.
The problem with this 
campaign is that rather than 
directly discussing the fun
damental issues of govern
ment in this modern age, A1 
Gore and George Bush seem 
to be playing Who Wants to 
Be a Chameleon. Gore shifts 
to the right, claiming hes a 
fiscal conservative. Bush 
shuffles to the left, touting 
his compassionate conser
vatism. Both are courting 
the senior vote with their 
eerily similar plans to cover 
prescription drugs under 
Medicare. Sometimes I feel 
like Im watching an on-line 
auction for my vote. Yes, I 
see what you can offer me, 
Mr. Gore. Can you beat that, 
Mr. Bush?
Plans are doled out to help 
anyone and everyone, yet 
the things that should be 
questioned, debated, and 
investigated are noticeably 
absent. For example, no
major discussion exists 
about Carnivore, the FBIs 
system for monitoring email 
and network traffic. The best 
the government can come up 
with regarding violations of 
the Fourth Amendment is, 
Oh, trust us.
The next President will have 
the possible opportunity to 
select up to three Justices to sit 
on the Supreme Court. 
Despite what conservatives 
think about the Supreme 
Court, I believe its the last 
bastion of Constitutional intel
ligence in our government.. 
Depending on who is elected, 
the new court can go in divegent directions, yet scant atten
tion is paid to this issue by 
either candidate.
Of course, this whole 
process isnt helped by unin
terested voters. And those 
that are left to vote often 
choose a candidate based on 
presentation instead of pro
posals. A few weeks ago, in 
an article in the PostGazette, a woman at a mall
in Cranberry said she was 
leaning towards Gore after 
she saw the Vice President 
plant a big wet one on 
Tipper at the convention. 
You cant fake that, she 
said. I guess this kiss was a 
good indication of the better 
moral example she wanted 
the next President to set for 
our children. I guess shes 
never seen a movie kiss.
So whats the solution to 
this quagmire? The unlikely 
answer comes to us, ironically, 
from Japan. Its high time we 
had an Iron President compe
tition, modeled on the famous 
Iron Chef.
For those who havent seen 
Iron Chef youre missing out 
on life. In his Kitchen Stadium, 
Chairman Kaga has selected 
the worlds finest culinary 
experts, and he has named 
them the Iron Chefs. Chefs 
from around the world come 
to Japan to compete against 
the Iron Chefs in a hour long 
cook-off. The secret ingrediSee ELECTION, page A7

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 2, 2000A7
Candidates should borrow tips from prime-time, focus on issues
I ELECTION, from page A6 
I ent is unveiled at the beginning of the show, 
[and the chefs have 60 minutes to prepare 
I dishes that highlight the theme ingredient. A 
I panel of four judges then tastes the dishes 
I and decides the winner.
| I say we adapt this show to the Presidential 
I campaign. Every week until the election, 
I Bush and Gore must come to Presidential
Stadium. There Kaga (who well keep for 
entertainment purposes) will unveil the 
secret issue. It could be a real issue like 
Social Security or a theoretical one such as 
what to do if North Korea starts a war with 
South Korea.
Each candidate will then have 60 minutes 
to develop a plan of action in a special room 
separated from his opponent. Just as in Iron
Chef, they will not be alone. Each person can 
have two assistants (picked ahead of time) to 
help him out. After developing a plan on live 
TV, each candidate will present it to a panel 
of experts. For fun, we can have Ralph Nader 
and Pat Buchanan on the panel.
Ill bet donuts to dollars that the ratings 
would be higher than those of Survivor. 
Perhaps we can spice things up by having
people vote online in secret polls to deter
mine the next secret issue. And, in the end, 
well get to see our future President in action 
... which may just make us all go out and vote 
for Harry Browne.
If memory serves him right, Christian M. 
Restifo is a first-year Flex-Time MBA student at 
GSIA.New suggestions for Olympic events guaranted to increase interest
Sean Mintus
It was only a few days ago that the Sydney 
2000 Olympics were in full swing. Across the 
world, barriers were breaking down, old 
grudges being set aside, and old records 
falling faster than first-year girls for yours 
truly. Over the last two weeks, a mere hemi
sphere away, the worlds greatest athletes 
were going head to head, vying for the right 
to call themselves the best of the best of the 
best of the best of the pretty friggin good for 
the next four years.
Thus, the entire CMU community 
watched anxiously every evening, rooting for 
their home country, the awe-inspiring United 
States, or India, or China, or maybe Japan , 
perhaps the Philippines, or Bavaria, Russia, 
Iran, Mars, Bedrock ... oh, and theres that 
chick from Kerviteterplechorstan too. Yes, 
over the past few weeks, the entire human 
race and CS majors carefully observed the 
most amazing worldwide athletic contest to 
occur since ... 1998.
But seriously, did anyone at CMU really 
watch the Olympics? While there might have 
been the occasional pocket of swimming 
enthusiasts or cross-country runners who 
reveled in watching people, well, swim and 
run, I didnt really see CMU as one of the big
ger hubs of Olympic interest.
Thus, I propose a new set of events, aimed 
specifically at the interests and abilities of 
the University community. Hopefully, the 
inception of these contests at the 2004 
Olympics in Paducah, Kentucky will spark 
interest at our University and circa-16thCentury Turkish prisons like it around the 
world. So without further ado, here are the
Sean Mintus Olympic additions, complete 
with brief predictions and analyses of the 
favorites for each event.
Chihuahua Punt: No man, so long as he is a 
man, can keep from laughing at the mere 
thought of kicking a small, yipping dog right 
out of its little pink bows and 
down the street. Contestants will 
line up side by side, and get three 
attempts each. Ifyourdoggetsup 
and walks away after going air
borne, you are automatically dis^ 
qualified and released into PETA 
custody. Additional points are 
awarded for blast radius, should a 
punt go really high in the air.
Favorite: Girls soccer team
Mayonnaise Marathon: This is 
an old event with a new twist.
Our slim, taut, toned runners 
line up for their event alongside 
a gallon of mayonnaise. The 
race begins, and each runner 
grabs his or her respective jug.
The person who finishes the 
race and eats all of his or her 
mayonnaise is the winner.
Favorite: I dont really think that 
anyone could actually do this.
Trick the Children: This is a team event. 
The objective is to construct a oneor twostory edifice, into which you must then shuf
fle no less than two dozen children. They 
must remain amused and entranced by the 
structures fancy decorations and flashing 
lights for no less than thirty seconds, at 
which point you force the framework to col
lapse. Bonus points for bloodcurdling cries 
for mommy.
Favorite: AEPi
Mule Races: This is a night event. Teams 
of no fewer than three severely inebriated 
students must locate a FMS Mule, hotwire 
it, and drive the buggy course three times 
in under ten minutes. They must then pro
ceed to drive the Mule at full speed into a 
nearby cluster, park it, and severely beat
me?s?t !eCCeODaOr or?YY
all those in the room at the time. Bonus hours. Mark my words: 
points awarded to anyone who takes out 
someone running Linux.
Favorite: Sig Nu
Screw Up: Teams of about 20 horrendous
ly overpaid, middle-aged men will be given 
several large stacks of forms. They will then 
attempt to catalogue and arrange these doc
uments in an orderly fashion. The team that 
screws up the most wins. Bonus points for 
poor alphabetization and any other display 
of severe and inexcusable ineptitude.
Favorite: Housing Office 
C & I Accumulation: This is a semesterlong event. Individuals will attempt to 
compile as many appearances in the Crime 
and Incident Report as possible. Citations 
are tallied at the end of every semester. 
Bonus points awarded for any incident 
involving public nudity and/or 
student drunkenness.
Favorite: Stupid People
Flirt: Teams of 3 - 5 guys will be 
placed in a room that contains 
roughly 20 young, attractive, intelli
gent (Pitt) girls. The men will then 
be required to socialize with these 
young ladies for exactly one hour. 
Points will be deducted for obscene 
language, forcing females to drink 
hard alcohol, unwarranted 
fondling, bad pick-up lines, and a 
God complex.
Favorite: Not PiKA
So there you have it. Feel free 
to construct and even perform 
your own Olympic events. For a 
prime location, I suggest the mid
dle of the Cut during prime 
prospective student touring 
if these events 
were put into regular rotation as official 
Olympic affairs, the ratings would soar, 
the television networks would make more 
money, athletes would be happier, and 
world peace would take hold. No ... no, 
none of that would really happen. Damn.
Sean Mintus is a sophomore professional 
and creative writing major. He asks that you 
kindly stop reading his column every week 
and find something better to do with your
self Loser.
Political motivations or not, tapping oil reserves a prudent decision
Damian Olesnycky
You might as well have instructed 
the two major political parties to 
have a good, clean fight and rung 
the bell. Inevitably, partisan accu
sations and clichs have been flying 
back and forth like blows in a 
heavyweight bout 'ver since 
President Clinton ordered that the 
U.S. emergency oil reserve be 
tapped for the purpose of driving 
crude oil prices down. Both parties 
and their respective presidential 
candidates have stayed true to elec
tion year form and tried to shine a 
favorable light on the exorbitant oil 
price situation in the eyes of the 
American people. A1 Gore has pro
claimed, I want to reject the agen
da of Big Oil and stand up to the 
apologists for Big Oil. George W. 
Bush, meanwhile, maintains, It 
[the U.S. emergency oil reserve] 
should not be used for short-term 
political gain at the cost of long
term national security. Political lip 
service aside, the extraordinarily 
high price of oil has been an endur
ing national crisis that needed to be 
tackled before costs could have 
spun out of control this winter. 
Only time will tell whether this
move will prove to be an effective 
one, but unfortunately for the 
G.O.P., it is difficult to label the 
decision a foolish one.
The most important detail to 
remember is that Clintons remedy 
for the high oil prices is not a sim
ple sell-off of the stockpiled emer
gency reserves. The solution is a 
swap in which 30 million barrels 
of oil, representing 5% of the 
reserves supply, will be released 
and sold off to refineries that will 
immediately increase their produc
tion. In turn, the buyers will replen
ish the reserve supply with an equal 
amount of oil in the spring and 
summer of 2001 when prices have 
experienced their regular seasonal 
drop. U.S. Energy Secretary Bill 
Richardson estimates that 3 to 5 
million new barrels should be 
ready by wintertime, driving prices 
down to reasonable levels. The 
anticipated effect of the measure is 
likely to take place because the 
newly bolstered supply should at 
least offset the yearly increase in 
demand for oil (if the plan is exe
cuted properly). In a nutshell, we 
can be sure that the prices will not 
rise anymore. The measure seems 
to be working thus far, with prices 
of oil per barrel exceeding $38 last 
week dropping to about $32 this 
week. The last time that such a 
measure was taken to control
prices was during the Gulf War, 
when interruptions in oil ship
ments from the Middle East caused 
former President Bush to tap the 
reserves. The move proved to be an 
effective one when market stability 
was maintained and oil prices 
stayed down during the six-week 
clash between the U.S. and Iraq.
There are two major concerns 
over the Clinton decision, the first 
of which is that the nations com
prising OPEC will cut back their oil 
production because of dissatisfac
tion over the move. The reason that 
tapping the reserves proved to be 
effective during the Gulf War was 
that oil production increased inter
nationally, so OPEC production 
needs to at least stay at the same 
level for Clintons solution to prove 
successful. Critics of tapping the 
reserves assert that the Middle East 
will surely cut back its production. 
However, Clinton made sure that 
such consequences would not take 
place when he met with Saudi 
Crown Prince Abdullah at the 
Waldorf-Astoria in New York City 
during the UN Millennium 
Summit, as reported by Time mag
azine. Here, Clinton found the 
quiet support he was looking for 
from Saudi Arabia before carrying 
out his decision.
The other major concern about 
Clintons decision is that oil refineries will not be able to meet the pro
duction needs that the newly 
increased supply will present. 
According to Republicans, the US 
oil refineries are currently running 
at 95 percent capacity. However, 
the Clinton Administration looked 
into this situation before deciding 
that the refineries could handle the 
production .hike. During the Gulf 
War, American refineries had no 
problem increasing their output, so 
Clinton feels that the same can be 
done in this situation.
It is troubling that the whole sit
uation is becoming so intertwined 
with politics. As good a decision 
that I feel tapping the reserves was, 
it would be truly unfortunate if the 
measure was carried out to help Al 
Gore in the upcoming election. This 
could very well be the case. After 
all, Al Gore opposed tapping the 
reserves during the primaries when 
his opponent Bill Bradley suggested 
the government should do so to 
drive oil prices down. Gore said the 
move would not help increase the 
U.S.s oil supply because if OPEC 
reacted by decreasing production, 
theyd wipe out any impact from 
releasing oil from that reserve. As 
in every one of Gores flip-flops on 
important issues, he feels that the 
situation has changed. Two weeks 
ago, Gore alleged that OPEC 
pledged to increase oil production, and they have not. The 
Clinton Administration, however, 
claims that OPEC is now produc
ing 3.5 million bbl. a day more than 
it did last March, leaving Gore 
caught in contradiction once again. 
Gore continues to portray the 
Republican Party as a group of oil 
industry representatives that lie 
and lobby for an industry that hikes 
its prices to exploit the demands of 
American citizens. This too is not 
the case; Clintons own Energy 
Department investigated the major 
oil companies extensively this sum
mer and found that claims of price 
gouging had no substance to them.
Opposing party members hav
ing different opinions on the 
matter based on their principles 
of policy and economics is fine, 
but using the situation to let stu
pid accusations fly in the hope of 
gaining some naive supporters is 
absurd. Clintons decision to tap 
the emergency reserve was a safe 
and reasonable one that has 
already paid dividends for the 
American public. Hopefully, it 
was brought about based on the 
needs of everyday people rather 
than the people in his own politi
cal circle.
Damian Olesnycky is a senior IDS 
major. He welcomes all responsible 
replies to his article.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1Q06
SENIOR STAFF 
Emily Landes
STAFFWRITERS 
Sara Amodio, Neil Babra, Cliff Chien, 
Krissy Choi, Cam Crews, Rob Cullen, 
Frank J. Fleming, LaRita Hamilton, 
Cynthia Kos, Erin Lucas, Sean Mintus, 
Damian Olesnycky, Peter Patterson, 
Srinivas Pullela, Jennifer Resick, Lynn 
Tao
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Gabriel 
Sabourin, Alissa Taylor
COMICS 
Martin Hock, James Kenney
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Erica Barnes, Jeff Cullers, 
Anthony DAuria, Emily Gensheimer, 
Matthew Lanken, Nuri Miller, Michael 
Raisman, Amy Solana, Matthew 
Trentacoste
DARKROOM
Peter Wang
PRODUCTION 
Michael Castellana, Eve Chen, Serena 
Lam, Douglas Yung
COPY
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Kristin Lala, 
Lorelei Laird, Meredith Powers, Emma 
Rehm, Julie Watt
JUNIOR STAFF
David Anderson, Sharad Bajaj, Andy 
Baker, Avinash Baliga, Eric Barker, 
Clinton Brownley, Kevin Burns, Yang 
Cai, Thomas Capasso, Lindsay Clark, 
Brad Cohen, Michael Cook, John Davin, 
Anjanelle Delancey, Ellie Delancey, 
Dave del Rosario, Ryan Friedman, 
Debra Halpern, Ryan Hamilton, Melissa 
Horne, John Hursh, Lirona Katzir, 
Anish Kumar, Elizabeth Levin, Ann 
Lewis, To Han Lu, Andrew McKeon, 
Jodi Poniewaz, Christian Restifo, Paul 
Richelmi, Danny Silitonga, Surya 
Singh, Jason Slater, Marissa Staller, 
Adam Steele, Sabrina Small, Vivek 
Sridharan, Erin Szeto, Cory Tong, 
Preston Treichel, Sriram Vaidhyanathan, 
Daniel Wood
wve w?Or?t ci rve ir'fetr te1iW?WeO 0Y 
u?Otesce *eCC0t Ptc&eOicrlpr pi ? 1ee,Cl 
te1iW?WeO W'MCcivef Ml ir'fetri f'Octs rve 
Y?CC ?tf iWOcts ie%eireOi, ?r t0 H0ir r0 %e%
MeOi 0Y rve Ptc&eOicrl H0%%'tcrlpr ci WOctr
ef Ml SeireOt qettilC&?tc? qOctrcts, ptHo'MiHOcWrc0ti ?Oe ?&?cC?MCe Y0O rve ie%eireO 
0O ?H?fe%cH le?Owve efcr0Oc?Ci ?WWe?Octs ?r 
rve Mescttcts 0Y rve 0Wctc0t ieHrc0t ?Oe rve 
0YYcHc?C 0Wctc0t 0Y wve w?Or?t efcr0Oc?C M0?Ofu0C'%ti ?tf W0CcrcH?C H?Or00ti ?Oe rve 0Wct
c0ti 0Y ctfc&cf'?C HOe?r0Oiwve w?Or?t 
OeieO&ei rve Ocsvr r0 OeGeHr 0O H0tfetie ?tl 
H0C'%t 0O W0CcrcH?C H?Or00tyerreOi r0 rve 
2fcr0O ?Oe 0Wctc0ti 0Y ?'rv0Oi 1v0 ?Oe 'i'?C
Cl, M'r t0r teHeii?OcCl, %e%MeOi 0Y rve 
Ptc&eOicrl H0%%'tcrla CerreO ctretfef Y0O 
W'MCcH?rc0t %'ir Me icstef ?tf ctHC'fe rve 
1OcreO'i ?ffOeii ?tf Wv0te t'%MeO Y0O &eOcYc
H?rc0tn?%ei %?l Me 1crvveCf 'W0t 
Oeq'eirwve w?Or?t Oeq'eiri rv?r CerreOi Me 
t0 C0tseO rv?t h5I 10Ofiwve w?Or?t 
OeieO&ei rve Ocsvr r0 H0tfetie 0O OeGeHr ?tl 
CerreOyerreOi r0 rve 2fcr0O %'ir Me i'M%cr
ref Ml 5 W% rve wv'Oif?l MeY0Oe W'MCcH?
rc0tu0WlOcsvr  gIII Ml wve w?Or?twve 
w?Or?t efcr0Oc?C M0?Of OeieO&ei rve Ocsvr r0 
1crvv0Cf YO0% W'MCcH?rc0t'?tl H0Wl cr fee%i 
'tYcr Y0O W'MCcH?rc0tNYYcHeZ Ptc&eOicrl 
uetreO m00% hA4- qv0teZ 4AgDg583gAAA*?cCcts ?ffOeiiZ wve w?Or?tD?0. A7Du?Otesce 
*eCC0t Ptc&eOicrlDqcrriM'Osv, qa A5gAh3 
h86I2%?cCZ r?Or?t:?tfOe1-H%'-ef' 
E'tfef ct W?Or Ml l0'O aHrc&crcei EeeaCC Ocsvri OeieO&efycMO?Ol 0Y u0tsOeii 
poon#ZI86I3hAI7-
wve w?Or?t ci ? %e%MeO 0Y 
rve aii0Hc?ref qOeii-Ap
Last week, Presidential candidate Ralph Nader came to CMU. In order to find 
out students reactions and their thoughts on third party candidates, we asked:
What do you think about Ralph Nader?A
A PERSONS OPINION
u0%WcCef Ml o?O? orcCCe 
qv0r0i Ml ?evt?% E?O?vW0'O
Marcin Jeske
Senior
CS/Psychology
Mark Hamblin
Sophomore
Mechanical Engineering
He brings good ideas, but doesnt I think Nader is great because he is I am a massive supporter of Ralph I want to marry Ralph Nader. No, Who? Oooh, he is like a political 
really seem to have much of a chance. taking votes away from Gore. Its about Nader. I wouldnt buy a used car from seriously, I do like him. Its definitely guy, right? 
what the people believe. either of the other two people.  not throwing away your vote. 

---------------------------------------------------

r0bulwo
2cspwlilve
!b?1wc?t
'eirc0tiZ u0tr?Hr ettcYeO u0OteCc'i 
H0OteCc'iG:fc?%reHv-H0%
dc?%0tf weHvt0C0sl q?OrteOi 875 n0Orv *cHvcs?t a&et'e, o'cre 3000  uvcH?s0, py 60611 
ph 312-255.5000 fx 312-255.6000
www.diamtech.com
2q'?C NWW0Or'tcrl 2%WC0leO
#pghcafe
dpa*Nnd w2u!nNyNGF qamwn2mo
LauNCHiNg kiLLeR 
e-BusiNess caReeRS
Diamond Technology Partners creates and implements digital strategies and "killer apps" 
that not only build new businesses, but can transform entire industries.
dc?%0tf ct&crei l0' r0 Ce?Ot %0Oe ?M0'r 0WW0Or'tcrcei 1crv 0'O YcO%R
Information Session 
Today 
Monday, October 2, 2000 
Porter Hall, Room 225A 
7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
at ?tt'?C reHvt0C0sl 
OeHO'crcts e&etr ieO&ef 1crv ? 
YOcetfCl i%cCe Ml rve 
qcrriM'Osv weHvt0C0sl u0'tHcCIts a special blend of...
Get your fill:
Tuesday, September 26, Penn State University,
HUB, Alumni Hall, University Center, 3-7 p.m. 
Tuesday, October 3, University of Pittsburgh, 
William Pitt Ballroom, 3-7 p.m.
Tuesday, October 10, Carnegie Mellon University 
Rangos Ballroom, 3-7 p.m.
Try it... Its Free!
%?CyfyMUSC WcrriM'Osv weHvt0C0sl u0'tHcC
growing sra*rt jvr od'u'cTi" . .www. pghtech. org
Pittsburgh technology companies 
Cutting-edge projects and engineers 
s Career and internship opportunities 
Exchange of ideas and information 
Music, food, and beverages 
(Hold the onions, company booths, 
and suits)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 2, 2000
Tartans defeat F&M, 
16-14, in dose game
MLB postseason right around the corner
Jeff Cullers/Junior Staff
Jeff Klinefelter lost Franklin and Marshall receiver Justin Salton in last 
Saturdays game, but he led the Tartans' defense with 12 tackles.
FOOTBALL, from page A12 *?Oiv?CC H0trct'?CCl 1?i Y0OHef r0 ve?f r0 rve ?cO r0 ser ?tl 0YYetic&e l?OfiThe momentum had turned with 
the start of the second half. After 
CMU got stopped on downs, the 
Diplomats marched down the field, 
led by Makson and his impressive 
receiver, Justin Salton. The drive 
ended with a 7-yard touchdown 
reception by Matt Wagaman, and 
the score was pushed to 10-7 in the 
Tartans favor.
Lackner attributed the second 
half problems with the CMU sec
ondary to the excellent play of 
Makson and his receivers. One 
receiver in particular, Salton, had 
16 receptions for 216 yards and one 
touchdown.
Franklin and Marshall found 
momentum in their quarterback, 
Lackner said. He had a good 
game. Our defense tried every
thing, but he continued to perform 
well.
The crowd and players of 
Franklin and Marshall went crazy 
when they scored. It was as if they 
had won a gold medal at the 
Olympics, and it was perhaps the 
boost they needed to continue 
challenging the Tartans.
In the fourth quarter, with pos
sessions alternating frequently, 
CMU was finally able to surmount 
another score with 5:32 left., 
Zimpfer took to the air, completing
passes to Matt Saneholtz, and final
ly, McLaughlin. Saneholtz had two 
catches and 32 yards total.
Soon, Zimpfer found McLaughlin 
in the end zone for a fade pattern. 
The extra point was no good, and 
the score was now 16-7.
However, the game wasnt over 
yet. The Diplomats came right back 
with a 28-yard reception by Salton. 
He put on some nice moves after 
his catch to find the end zone with 
1:39 remaining, making the score 
16-14 after the extra point.
Fortunately for the Tartans, it 
was too little, too late, and the 
Diplomats ran out of time. Their 
onside kick was unsuccessful, and 
the Tartans ran out the clock.
In other statistics for the Tartans, 
Zimpfer led all rushers with 57 
yards on 18 carries. The leading 
tackier for the Tartans was Jeff 
Klinefelter with 12 tackles. Even 
though the Tartans were consid
ered heavy favorites, coach 
Lackner believes that may have 
been deceiving.
We knew they were decent 
because they lost to excellent 
teams, said Lackner. I give credit 
to them because even though they 
were 0-3, they just didnt quit 
fighting.
Saturdays victory brought the 
Tartans overall record to 4-1, and 
they now have two weeks to pre
pare for their October 14 game at 
Washington University, in St. Louis.
BASEBALL, from page A12 
for late-inning comebacks.
For their part, the Mets continue 
to rely way too heavily on Mike 
Piazza and Robin Ventura for their 
offense. As shown throughout the 
last two Septembers, when these 
two are slumping, runs can be very 
hard to come by in New York. 
While the pitching staff, led by l
game winner A1 Leiter and 15- 
game winner Mike Hampton, can 
keep the Mets in most games, the 
Giants just have too many 
weapons and have played too well 
all season long to let Piazza or 
Ventura to beat them single-handedly. Ill give the Mets one at home, 
but Giants win the series easily in 
four games.
Atlanta versus St. Louis is going 
to be an interesting series to 
watch. Ive thought about this one 
for a while, but I keep coming to 
the conclusion that I dont know 
enough about St. Louis to handi
cap their chances. Atlantas start
ing pitching is as strong as ever, 
but their bullpen has been erratic 
at best all season. On offense, the 
Braves can be as potent as anyone, 
but havent put it all together in a 
while.
For St. Louis to have a chance, 
the entire roster Will have to pro
duce. Of course, I like their 
chances more if McGwire comes 
back to play full time, but Wil 
Clark has been a great replace
ment through the end of the sea
son. Having clinched the division 
several weeks ago, the Cardinals 
havent played a meaningful game 
in a long time. That doesnt mean 
theyve been coasting, however. 
Playing well enough to take home 
field away from Atlanta shows a 
lot of desire to win. I like the 
Cardinals in five.
In an NLCS pairing that nobody 
predicted in March, the Giants are 
just plain better than the 
Cardinals. With the best home 
record in the majors this year, the 
Giants will take full advantage of 
the home field edge in this series. 
St. Louis will put up a fight, but 
San Francisco moves on to their 
first World Series since 1989 in six 
games.
The American League Divisional 
Series are even tougher to call. The 
White Sox and Yankees were powWIN A TRIP FOR TWO TO
AFRICA
This year the cast of MTV's The Real World' went to Africa. 
Now you can ffoo!
Enter for a chance to win at your local Council Travel office 
or at counciltravel.com
2
virginatlantic
This trip to Africa is provided by
woridwido vacations 
for 18 to 35 year o4ds
No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S., between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00.
Void where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go to counciltravel.com. Sweepstakes end 10/15/00.
erhouses for most of the season, but 
neither has played well down the 
stretch. Oaldand and Seattle go into 
the playoffs as two of the hottest 
teams in the league. Some new 
faces, and lots of room for upsets go 
on display Tuesday.
also boasts their fair share of veter
ans, most notably Jay Buhner and 
Edgar Martinez. The key to this 
series will be winning early, and hav
ing the first two games in Chicago 
will definitely be an edge for the 
White Sox. Itll be a tough one, but
With the best record in the AL 
(one game behind San Francisco for 
best in the majors), the White Sox 
get home field over the Wild Card 
Mariners. Far from a reward, howev
er, this could get ugly for Chicago. 
Their ace of the first half, James 
Baldwin, has progressed from a 
dead arm to full-fledged arm 
injury and might not even be in the 
rotation for the playoffs. The White 
Sox are also a younger, relatively 
inexperienced team, but with veter
ans like Frank Thomas and Harold 
Baines to calm the young guys down, 
that shouldnt be a problem.
Seattle is also a younger team, but
Justin Suissa/Art Editor
the Sox should recover just enough 
of their early-season form to hold on 
and win it in the full five games.
The other AL match-up promises 
to be, if not the most competitively 
compelling, then definitely the most 
interesting of the four first-round 
series. These are two teams who are 
definitely headed in opposite direc
tions. Oakland is coming off of a 
sweep of Texas and has had one of 
the best Septembers in a long time. 
The Yankees, meanwhile, are back
ing into the playoffs having lost 
seven games in a row.
The Yankees once dominant 
pitching staff has looked very vulnerable over the past few weeks, while 
Oakland ace Tim Hudson is pitching 
like a seasoned veteran. Oaklands 
offense is just plain scary when it 
gets rolling (see Saturdays 23-2 
pasting of Texas), and theres no way 
I can pass up the opportunity to pick 
against the @& ~ *ing Yankees. With 
home field advantage, Oakland 
takes it in four.
As stated above, I think the White 
Sox peaked way too early in the sea
son to be a legitimate contender, 
while Oakland is either peaking at 
just the right time, or (even scarier) 
hasnt peaked at all yet. Either way, I 
like the Cinderella small-market 
team to give us another Battle of the 
Bay.O Oakland in six.
Looking back on my preseason 
picks (which is still painful for me to 
do), I see that my current World 
Series picks feature two teams who I 
didnt even pick to make the playoffs. 
Regardless, Ill stand by these predic
tions as firmly as I did behind all my 
others (read: Im not a baseball ana
lyst, give me a break already). All 
right, enough covering myself, its 
time for the big one, so here goes: 
San Francisco in five games. 
Momentum can only carry a team so 
far before sheer talent comes in to 
play. Oakland is just too young to 
compete with a team led by Baker 
and powered by Bonds and Kent.
Matt Brun is a junior ECE major. 
All responsible replies to his opinions \ 
are appreciated and can be addressed 
to mbrun+@andrew.
1 out of 2
Call today 
to learn more 
about how you 
can join the fight 
against osteoporosis.
941-342-8288
AA8 *elO?t a&et'e
412-683-1881
counciltravel.com

---------------------------------------------------

TO FIND A STORE NEAREST YOU, CALL TOLL FREE: 1.877.363.P0L0

---------------------------------------------------

oYYcm%0Y'7"',
GATEWAY CLIPPER FLEET
PITTSBURGHS NUMBER 1KAUOWEEN ADVENTURE!
NIGHTMARE HOTLINE 412-355-7944DOCKED AT STATION SQUARE
OPEN THURSDAY THRU SUNDAY ONLY 
OCTOBER 5 THRU 29 PLUS TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31 
GATES OPEN 630 PM. BOAT OOES NOT SAIL
GET YOUR EXCLUSIVE U55. NIGHTMARE COUPONS
jmtuburgb |Jofll-6arc!tc
STATION SQUARE DOCK* DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
WWW.GATEWAYCUPPER.COM
classified
Travel
WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK
Ski fit Beach Trips on sale nowl 
www.sunchase.com or call 1-80-SUNCHASE 
TODAYI
For Sale
Efficiency Apartment - Oakland, 2 rooms, 
clean/spacious, available immediately. Very 
close to bus line and convenient to campus. 
(412) 271-6162
FLOWERS for romance, birthday, platonic, formals and more ... make someone smile.
Croup discounts. ALEX'S FLOWERS. 687- 
ALEX. 687-4128. Call before noon for same 
day delivery, www.alexsflowers.com
shop online for food
www.windfallfoods.com is Pittsburgh's whole
some food e-store, always free delivery! 
organic, convenient non-gmo. veg&vegan. 
low fat. high protein, kosher, health&beauty. 412-682-2922
Opportunities
1 Spring Break Vacations! Best Prices 
Guaranteed! Cancuh, Jamaica, Bahamas, & 
Florida. Sell Trips, Earn Cash & Go Free! Now 
hiring Campus Reps. 1-800-234-7007 endlesssummertours.com
boy. Must be non-smoker, own transporta
tion.
NEED CASH? International Company seeks 
Exciting and Enthusiastic people to work full 
time or part time from your home. Full traihaxwa 
ing provided - No experience necessary.
(904) 366-8334
Pittsburgh Deli Company 728 Copeland 
Shadyside Now hiring kitchen/counter ptosi,.^- 
tions, reliable, 25 hours minimum. Call (412)^ 
682-3354, Scott, David, Geoffrey.
WANT CASH? Sign-up your classmates for 
cool Internet sites, and receive a minimum of 
SI .00 per person! There's no easier way to 
make money! Log onto TeamMagma.com or. 
call 1 -877-866-2462
We have part time positions available in our 
hotel gift shops located in these downtown 
Pittsburgh hotels: Westin William Penn, 
Doubletree, Marriott, and the Hilton. These 
positions include various schedules which are 
compatible with most student's class sched
ules. We offer a competitive salary, pleasant 
working environment and a generous employ
ee discount. If interested call: 412-782-3266 
or fax information to 412-782-3268
Classified Rates
1-20 words...........SlO.OO/wk
21-50 words...........$12.00/wk
51-100 words........$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
 Classifieds must be paid in cash 
or check before first run date
 On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
 Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication
d0 l0' Cc,e 1Ocrctsk 
aOe l0' ctreOeiref ct 
iW0Orik
wOl 1Ocrcts Y0O
THETARTAN
pY l0'Oe 
ctreOeiref, 
WCe?ie e%?cC
tartan@andrew. emu. edu
THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 2. 2000
Lets keep athletes out of political picture
Full Court Press
by Pete Patterson
I Those not following the Olympic 
I games (and, judging by NBCs tele| vision ratings, thats most of you)
I may need to be introduced to 
Cathy Freeman. Ms. Freeman is a 
native Australian, recently 
crowned winner of the womens 
! 400 meters, and probably the most 
famous athlete in the host country.
She is also an Aborigine, the 
! native people of the land that have 
had a similar relationship with 
white settlers in Australia as Native 
Americans have had in this hemi
sphere. Being a member of a his
torically discriminated-against 
minority group often brings unnec
essary expectations upon athletes. 
Im not speaking about pressures 
felt from the oppressors, but from 
within the group (not that outside 
pressure doesnt occur; just ask 
Hank Aaron).
After winning the 400-meter 
gold, Freeman in her victory lap 
draped a flag made from stitched 
together pieces of the Australian 
and historical Aborigine banners. 
It was a touching statement sup
porting recognition of past mis
deeds, forgiveness for the perpe
trators, and future unity.
Unfortunately, seemingly before 
the final notes of the Australian 
national anthem were played, 
Aboriginal leaders began speaking 
out about what they perceived as 
Freemans future role. Author 
Ruby Langford Ginibi was quoted 
as saying that she should talk to 
her elders about becoming a politi
cian. Freeman has heard this talk 
often before, and is no doubt wea
ried by it. In her press conference 
prior to the event, she told 
reporters that shed like to pass 
comment on all political ques
tions.
Why should anyone expect any 
different from athletes? It is not 
their responsibility to do anything
other than perform their events to 
the best of their abilities. It is 
admirable that Freeman has made 
the many comments that she has 
regarding her heritage, but it is by 
no means something that she 
should feel compelled to do.
This problem is especially 
heightened at the Olympics, where 
the outcome of competition is 
mixed with a sense of national 
pride. It seems no small stretch to 
conclude that the athlete should 
take advantage of their global 
stage and speak out on political 
matters. This is terribly flawed 
reasoning, however.
When electing government offi
cials, we do not consider which one 
would win a sprint. Similarly, ath
letes often have inadequate train
ing to talk intelligently about polit
ical matters. To get to the level of 
professionals or Olympians, ath
letes must dedicate the majority of 
their lives to their crafts. Its almost 
impossible to watch more than five 
minutes of Olympic coverage with
out seeing a story attempting to 
touch the heart about the sacrifices 
necessary for an individual to 
make it to Sydney. When family, 
personal life, and friends are sacri
ficed, its hard to imagine that poli
tics will remain a priority.
It is not impossible for an athlete 
to affect society. Several examples 
abound, especially with regards to 
race. The world landscape could 
be much different today without 
the influence of Jesse Owens, 
Jackie Robinson, and Muhammad 
Ali. This possibility, however, does 
not mean an athlete should be 
compelled to act. This mistake is 
not relegated only to the Olympic 
Games.
There are many today looking 
for Tiger Woods to use his multi
ethnic background to create a 
more racially accepting society 
(this includes his father, who 
famously claimed that Tiger would 
have more impact on the world
than any other person in history).
One of the biggest criticisms 
made of Michael Jordan has been 
his silence on matters of race and 
politics. It is fine for people to 
hold up these athletes as exam
ples of what opportunities there 
are for those of all backgrounds, 
but lodging the hopes and expec
tations of a people on them is too 
much.
Tiger has no responsibility to do 
anything besides trying to continReagan Heller/Art Staff
ue his domination of golf, much as 
Jordan fulfilled reasonable expec
tations by displaying his excel
lence on the court every night.
My hope for Cathy Freeman is 
that she is able to decide her future 
path on her own accord, without 
feeling pressure from her native 
people. She should be given a 
chance to celebrate her accom
plishments, not have to answer 
questions about when her name 
will be appearing on the ballot.
Sports Shorts
Volleyball takes Doubleheader tourney easily split for baseball
The Lycoming Tournament this 
weekend was a breeze for the 
womens volleyball team, which 
won all four of its matches 3-0, and 
never allowed an opponent to score 
more than 11 points in a game until 
the final.
Carnegie Mellon rarely exerted 
itself in this years tournament, in 
which the competition was 
markedly weaker than in past 
years, according to Tartan head 
coach Julie Webb.
The nine-team competition fea
tured three pools of three teams; 
CMU defeated Marymount and 
Bridgewater in the preliminary 
round. In the final rounds, the 
Tartans beat Lynchberg and Elmira.
According to Webb, the Elmira 
match was the only one of the tour
nament where the Tartans were 
challenged. Trailing in the first 
game, the Tartans came back to 
win 17-15, then 15-7 and 15-11.
We played very well against 
Elmira, said Webb.  We definitely 
earned that match.
Major players this weekend 
included senior Jeri Goede, junior 
Sara Lechleitner, and sophomore 
Lauren Schmidt.
Schmidt was recendy named 
UAA Athlete of the Week for 
September 17-24. Schmidt record
ed 70 kills (.320 hitting percent
age), eight service aces, and 67 digs 
in the first UAA Round Robin two 
weekends ago.
The team is confident heading 
into the second UAA Round Robin 
this weekend at New York 
University, where it will face tough 
opponents in Rochester, Brandeis, 
and Washington University. Webb 
and her team are unfazed by the 
competition, however.
She said, simply, Were looking 
to beat them.
Carnegie Mellon baseball played 
a doubleheader on Saturday 
against Franciscan University, 
located in Steubenville, Ohio.
The teams last couple games had 
been rained out, and the athletes 
were finally getting a chance to play 
after two weekends without games.
The Tartans routed Franciscan in 
the first game, 9-1. Sophomore 
starter Dan Bogard pitched four 
strong innings, giving up one run.
The offensive contributors 
included senior Ramon Poo (2-4, 
IB, 3B, 2 RBI), senior Brian 
Rosinski (1-2,2B, 2 RBI), graduate 
student Jon Mayes (2-3, IB, 2B, 
RBI), and junior Eric Parent (1-2, 
3B, RBI).
The second game proved to be a 
heartbreaker for the Tartans. 
Graduate student Jay McCormack 
pitched three innings, recording 
five strikeouts.
In the fourth inning, Coach Rich 
Greiser put first-year Charlie 
Hamilton on the mound. Hamilton 
pitched brilliandy, lasting until the 
seventh when, with the Tartans up 
4-3, he allowed the tying run to 
score.
After Mayes was brought in to 
relieve him, Franciscan scored the 
winning run on a hit that was near
ly caught in right field. The 5-4 loss 
was dispiriting.
It was a heartbreaker, said 
Greiser. We should have come 
away with a doubleheader sweep.
But the team will recover and 
play a doubleheader at La Roche 
this Saturday.
We knew we played great, said 
Greiser. There were lots of defen
sive plays, very good pitching... but 
well rebound, well be okay.
Compiled by 
Christopher Chung
29 PEOPLE WANTED To Get Paid SSSS.
Lose up to 30 lbs in 30 days. Natural - 
Guaranteed (904) 366-8181
Auditions announced for Pittsburgh pre
miere of "Kindertransport." Three genera
tions of women unravel their history in this 
compelling drama about a young child saved 
from horror of the Holocaust by a little-known 
rescue effort called the Kindertransport. 
Production dates are November 30-December 
10. Needed are four women, aged 20-80, 
one man, any age, and one girl, who ages 
from 9-17. For additional information or to 
schedule an appointment, call 412-521-8011 
ext 111
BABYSITTER NEEDED! 8:30AM - 4PM - 
Tuesday, Thursday, Friday. 20 month year old
Offer valid for select trains only 
Not valid on unreserved NEC service. Metroliner*. Acela Express , Auto 
Train*, Canadian portion of joint AmtrakA/IA' service. 7000 & 8000 
series Thruway Services, multi-ride.fare plans and any other discounts 
or promotions. Blackout dates are November 21-28. 2000. Offer nonrefuridable after payment is made. Reservations required 14 days in 
advance of travel with ticket purchase within 2 days of reservation. 
Valid for Business Class and Sleeping Car upon payment of full applica
ble accommodation charge. Amtrak is a registered service mark of the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation.
TRAVEL AGENTS: Access your GDS for complete details: G/PRO/5TU 
Sabre: Y/PKO/STU. Attach coupon to auditors coupon; if electronically 
reporting, attach to agent coupon. All Travel Agents and Amtrak 
Ticketing Agents please return The coupon to: Amtrak Customer 
Segmentation, 10 G Street. NE, Washington, DC 7.0002.
ARC 8 554 270 0000 059 0
Mention code: H059
Regular Student Advantage discount is 15%
Student Advantage
\govp/
studentadvantage.com
o^'DVaawm aU
www.amtrak.com
30drr
for Student Advantage members. 
When you present this coupon and your Student Advantage Card.
Only when you purchase between August 31st and
^5%
for non-members with student ID.
When you present this coupon and your student ID.
November 18th, for travel on September 14th through December 16th.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
2 October 2000 THE TARTAN Page Al 2
q0irie?i0t 
ier r0 ser 
'tfeO1?l
A View From The Bleachers
by Matt Brun
It took a while, but the American 
League West and Wild Card races 
finally straightened themselves out. 
With wins on Sunday, Oakland 
clinched the Western Division tide, 
while Seattle snatched die Wild Card 
from Cleveland. Obviously, I dont 
want to dwell on that fact any more 
than I have to, so Im going to go 
right into my playoff predictions.
The National League match-ups 
were setded a while ago, so Ive had 
a lot of time to consider these 
upcoming series. The Giants will get 
the top seed and home field advan
tage through the NL Championship 
Series, while perennial October 
power Atlanta will be the underdog 
going into their series with St. Louis.
As usual, the Mets had a shot at 
the Braves late in the season, but 
couldnt take advantage and stumble 
into a first-round series against a 
team with one of the top three 
records in the majors (San Francisco, 
Adanta, and the Chicago White Sox 
all had a chance to finish tied for the 
best record with wins late Sunday). 
On paper, this is clearly San 
Franciscos series to lose, and I dont 
see any reason why they would.
Dusty Baker (easily the best man
ager in the league, in my opinion) 
continues to get production from his 
entire line-up while featuring two 
legitimate MVP candidates in Barry 
Bonds and Jeff Kent, and the rota
tion has been consistently depend
able, if not spectacular. The unsung 
heroes of the Giants season, though, 
have been the guys in the bullpen. 
Led by one of the best closers in die 
league in Rob Nen, the Giants reliev
ers dont give up many leads as well 
as keeping the opposition in range 
See BASEBALL, page A9
Tartans pacify Diplomats in close 16-14 home win
y? m0Hve e.W0iei 1e?,teiiei ct 10%eti i0HHeO
by Melissa Horne
Junior Staffwriter
The womens soccer team played a disap
pointing game against La Roche this week. The 
Tartans could have won, but instead lost 
because they could not capitalize on scoring 
opportunities.
Carnegie Mellon had six times as many shots 
as opposing La Roche, four more corners, and 
fewer fouls. The game statistics suggest that the 
Tartans won the game; they certainly dominat
ed it. Somehow, unfortunately, the Tartans lost 
2-1 to the local team.
Less than 10 minutes into the first half, a La 
Roche forward scored. Soon after, the Tartans 
answered back. Sophomore Allison Styer 
scored, with an assist by senior Cindy 
Echevarria. Through the first half the Tartans 
displayed successful passing, leading to many 
shots on goal. Even with this offense the score 
was still 1-1 at the end of the half.
The second half started with another goal for 
La Roche. Again, the Tartan offense ignited, 
with several good shots. The La Roche goalie 
had a great game, robbing the Tartans of many 
chances. Near the end of the second half, the 
Tartans frustration became evident. The ball 
was not going into the goal, and in addition, 
both La Roche goals were scored off Tartan 
errors, according to head coach Heather 
Kendra.
A lot of things worked really well for us, said 
Kendra. Transition, fifty-fifty air game, creat
ing good chances. We just need to finish.
Kendra added, It was a disappointing out
come. We out-shot La Roche by a large margin 
and controlled most of the play. They did one 
thing much better than we did  finish their 
chances.
Maya Nigrosh played in the goal for the 
Tartans, making two saves from five shots that 
La Roche took. Comparatively, the La Roche 
goalie saved 16 of the 31 Tartan shots.
It was a very frustrating game because we
dominated almost the entire game and out-shot 
them, but we couldnt finish our opportunities, 
said Echevarria, who assisted on Carnegie 
Mellons only goal of the game. Finishing is 
something we are working on and hopefully in 
the future our chances will go in. Maybe our 
heads weren't in the game, but we definitely did
nt play up to our potential.
The team played at Washington University 
yesterday, and suffered another loss, 3-0. The 
Washington game was part of a string of UAA 
games coming up, which are important because 
games against fellow UAA teams weight heavily 
in the post-season tournament. Right now the 
team has to overcome a three-game losing 
streak.
The Tartans record now stands at 3-6, 
although game statistics show that the women 
are playing well. Adjustments need to be made 
to make those near-victories into wins.
The next game for the Tartans is this Friday, at 
5:30 pm, in Gesling Stadium. They will be play
ing a strong UAA opponent in Emory University.
The mens soccer team handled Penn State-Behrend last Tuesday, 3-0, and defeated Washington University 1-0 in double overtime yesterday. The 
Tartans are now 6-1 this season. Sophomore forward Adam Hibshman was named UAA Athlete of the Week for mens soccer last week. Hibshman 
helped the Tartans defeat the University of Chicago two weekends ago with two key goals in the second half. The Tartans face UAA rival Emory at home 
this Friday. The game starts at 8 pm at Gesling Stadium.
are reminded to report scores to 
the IM Office by Tuesday at noon.
Water Polo  IM Water Polo is 
being played at the UC Pool. 
Games are played Monday and 
Wednesday evenings at 9 pm. No 
warming up while people are par
ticipating in recreational swim.
Cross Country  The 2000 IM 
Cross Country meet will be held 
Tuesday, October 3 at 4:30 pm. 
The 1.9-mile race will begin on 
Flagstaff Hill across from the 
Porter Hall entrance.
GolfThe 2000 Intramural Golf 
tournament will be held Sunday, 
October 8, at the Schenley Park 
Course. Green fees are $10 .and 
club rental is $6. Players can tee 
off anytime after 7 am. All stu
dents must show CMU ID.
Sports Upcoming
Soccer  There will be a manda
tory rules meeting on Tuesday, 
October 10, at 4:30 pm in the 
Small Gym at Skibo Gymnasium. 
Teams must send a representa
tive. Failure to do so will cause 
your team to have a forfeit added 
to your record. The forfeit can 
affect your chance at the playoffs 
and a second forfeit will remove 
your team from the league.
Volleyball Schedules will be 
out this week and play will begin 
Monday, October 9.
BCS Football Rankings
Majors
1. Delt Scrubs A
2. #1 Stunnas
3. Perolis All Stars
Intermediate
1. Animal Thugs
2. Kappa Sigma
3. Boozehounds
Minors
1. P Clams
2. ASA Yellow Jackets
3. Delt Scrubs R
4. Sudsuckers
Women
1. Tartan Hoopers B
2. Tartan Hoopers A
3.FTH
All email rosters must be submit
ted 24 hours prior to the deadline.
by Preston Treichel
Junior Staffwriter
After winning a barnburner 
the previous week against the 
Alfred Saxons, CMU was looking 
forward to posting an easy victo
ry against last Saturdays oppo
nent, Franklin and Marshall 
College. Franklin and Marshall 
came into the game winless and 
having scored only one touch
down all season.
In fact, the week before the 
Franklin and Marshall Diplomats 
played CMU, their punter broke 
the school record for punting 
yardage in one game. That statis
tic basically summarizes how the 
season is headed for the 
Diplomats.
The Tartans were once again 
without captain Nick Zitelli, a 
middle linebacker who led the 
team in unassisted tackles before 
the game against the Diplomats. 
Next week the Tartans have a bye 
week and are looking forward to 
using that to whip Zitelli back 
into shape.
Hes definitely going to be 
back for Washington University, 
said head coach Rich Lackner. 
The game against Washington 
University will be played in St. 
Louis on October 14.
The first half seemed to go fair
ly smoothly for the Tartans. 
Going into the locker room, they 
were up 10-0 and were control
ling the tempo of the game. The 
Diplomats were not able to get 
any running game established at 
all, as they had 35 yards on the 
ground for the game. The CMU 
defensive line was in pure form.
The first Tartan score came 
with 6:48 remaining in the first 
quarter. Its no surprise that the 
go-to-guy Adam Urbanczyk was 
the one to break the goal line. His 
longer than usual 11-yard plunge 
gave him eight touchdowns for 
the year. He ended the game
Jeff Cullers/Junior Staff
Carnegie Mellon quarterback Eric Zimpfer (2) meets a swarm of Franklin and Marshall defenders while collecting some of his 57 total rushing yards.
with 16 yards on three carries.
Tartan quarterback Eric Zimpfer 
continued to work with his main 
target, Mike McLaughlin, for the 
entire game. He wasted no time 
getting started, going to him deep 
twice, once for a reception and one 
time getting a pass interference call 
on the defense. Zimpfer was 7-12 
with 139 yards and one touch
down.
The question is, who are the
Tartans going to turn to offensively 
when teams key on McLaughlins 
deep patterns and Zimpfers scram
bling? Head coach Rich Lackner 
answered readily.
Defenses have to guard Mike 
McLaughlin, Lackner said. Hes a 
big play kind of guy. If they want to 
back off, well turn to the run, and 
if they crowd the line, we can look 
for McLaughlin. McLaughlin fin
ished the game with five receptions for 107 yards and one touch
down.
The offense was unable to capi
talize after the first bomb to 
McLaughlin, but the Tartans quick
ly got the ball back after a Diplomat 
fumble. It was recovered by safety 
Jared Winchester and it provided 
CMU with great field position.
The Tartans converted the 
turnover into a Michael Palmer 
field goal, and play continued without much action until the end of 
the half. With the Diplomats dri
ving down the field, their unique 
no-huddle offense brought them 
deep into CMU territory.
The drive was stopped short with 
less than a minute left when out
side linebacker Mike Danielson 
intercepted a pass by the Diplomat, 
quarterback, David Makson, on the! 
one-yard line. Franklin and!
See FOOTBALL, page A9
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, x8-2214 or immike+ 
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 
or kiryk+
Intramural Board President: 
Mike Edwards, x2-2993 
Intramural Vice President: Ryan 
Jackson
Womens President: Amy Tsao
Important Dates
Tuesday, October 3  IM Cross 
Country Meet at 4:30 pm, 
Flagstaff Hill in Schenley Park 
Wednesday, October 4  IM 
Board Meeting at 11:45 am in the 
Gym Conference Room 
Sunday, October 8  Intramural 
Golf Tournament at Schenley 
Park Golf Course 
Monday, October 9  Six-person 
volleyball begins 
Tuesday, October 10  MANDA
TORY SOCCER RULES MEETING 
at 4:30 pm in the small gym.
Sports in Season
Flag Football  Games are now 
being played. Schedules are 
available in the IM Office. The 
games are played Monday 
through Thursday evenings and 
Sunday afternoons on the IM 
and Stadium fields. The season 
ends Wednesday, October 4, and 
playoffs will begin Thursday, 
October 5. Times will be avail
able by 10 am on Thursday, 
October 5.
Tennis  Matches consist of 2 
singles and 1 doubles. Matches. 
are under way and are played 
Monday through Thursday 
evenings. Please remember in 
the event of a rain out, both 
teams must contact the IM Office 
about rescheduling.
Co-Rec Volleyball  The playoffs 
start tonight. The championships 
will be played Thursday night.
Bowling  The IM Bowling sea
son got underway last week at 
the PAA lanes in Oakland. Teams

---------------------------------------------------

Arts Living
2 October 2000 THE TARTAN Section B
u*P ir'fetri fciH'ii W0CcrcH?C &ce1i, ctreOeir ct 'WH0%cts eCeHrc0t
n?&?O?rOc Yeirc&?C Ye?r'Oei 'tcq'e MCetf 0Y 
ptfc?t H'Cr'O?C HeCeMO?rc0t, Y00f, f?tHe
by Nathan Steinwald
Contributing Editor
Last Friday night Carnegie Mellon stu
dents had the usual list of Friday activi
ties to choose from. There were fraterni
ty and off-campus parties, there was a 
McConomy movie for the more passive, 
and there was homework - like the 
sword of Gideon, hanging over all of our 
heads all of the time. However, for those 
students interested in something differ
ent, something that doesnt come 
around as often, the South Asian 
Student Association was turning Rangos 
Hall into an interesting celebration 
named Navaratri.
Navaratri means nine nights, and 
when given a chance, that is how long 
the celebration lasts. It is based upon an 
old Indian myth of Rama, an ancient 
king of India, who entered an epic battle 
against Ravana, who had kidnapped his 
wife. For nine days Ramas people 
prayed to Durga, the goddess of power, 
and on the tenth day Rama finally won. 
In the present day, there are no battles, 
only a celebration punctuated by danc
ing that ritualizes Ramas battle.
In India everyone comes and they go 
crazy in the streets, said Amy Shah, a 
Junior electrical and computer engi
neering major. When I was in school [in 
India] they gave us nine days off ... but 
most schools didnt do that.
Far from being a CMU only event, 
organizers went out of their way to 
attract people from the greater 
Pittsburgh community and the
University of Pittsburgh. Radio ads were 
placed on an Indian radio show and rep
resentatives were sent to SASAs coun
terpart organizations at Pitt.
Last year we had 200 people come, 
said Palak Shah, vice-president of SASA. 
So this year were expecting the same. We 
advertised in the Pittsburgh community 
and we are hoping for a good turnout from 
Pitt.
Maybe any good party needs to start 
slowly and have people arrive fashionably 
late. The formula certainly didnt fail SASA 
on Friday, as both organizers and partici
pants enjoyed themselves. The event, 
which was advertised to start at 8, was just 
finishing up the bands soundchecks when 
the magic hour came around. Fortunately 
not many of the events guests had arrived. 
By 9, the music had been in full swing for 
half an hour and the ballroom was starting 
to fill up. By ten there were at least 200 
people in attendance, most of them danc
ing barefoot across the floor at the pace set 
by the band.
Initially I was kind of worried, said 
Palak Shah during the celebration. But 
now there are over 200 people here, and 
that is more what I was expecting. Now we 
are about to start the Raas - and that is a 
lot of fun. I think people will really enjoy it. 
This is what Ive been waiting for.
The primary dances of Navaratri are 
Garba and Dandia-Rass, both from the 
Gujarat area of India. Both are danced in 
circles, but Raas, which more people 
seemed to be dancing, used Dandia - 
wooded sticks that participants strike 
together - and is danced with two concen
tric circles turning in opposite directions,
and bringing a person face to face with 
someone new every few steps.
No matter how familiar or unfamiliar 
people seemed to be, most everyone was 
wearing a face of enjoyment as they 
danced.
I used to go every year when I was at 
home, said Neema Avashia. This is the 
first year Ive come here. Im enjoying it 
very much.
Avashia also pointed out that aside from 
the two traditional Navaratri dances, some 
people were dancing Bhangra, from north
ern India. The diversity of dance was a tes
tament to the diffusion of Navaratri and its 
popularity on the Indian sub-continent.
Even people who didnt enter the 
dance with the sensitivities of a sociolo
gist or a family background in the event 
seemed to really have enjoyed them
selves.
I came because I wanted to observe 
the Indian culture, and it seems that the 
Indian culture has welcomed me and I 
have had a wonderful time, said Brian 
Namey, an sophmore majoring in 
International Affairs and French, who 
learned of the event in his role as a 
Senator for H&SS. Ive never been to an 
event like this and I learned. I think that 
the more cultural events the better. The 
more cultural events there are, the more 
we can learn about our diverse world 
and the more we can work together in a 
global world.
Whether people came more out of 
habit or curiosity, more for learning or 
for dancing, everyone had a really good 
time as the party danced its way into the 
night.
one of just a few representatives 
of his own age group. Aijid on 
campus, lately he hasnt1 seen 
much in the way of kinship from 
other politically-active students.
At CMU I feel like Im a bit iso
lated from other politicallyactive students said Carroll, 
whos from Berkeley, California - 
one of the centers of support for 
Nader. I was amazed to see that 
many people at the Nader lec
ture. I was amazed to see him 
speak on campus at all... Im not 
really aware of many activist 
groups on campus. Maybe I just 
havent gone out and looked, but 
they havent gone out and made 
themselves publicly known.
Other politically-active stu
dents express similar sentiments
- nobodys politically active, and 
if they are, they cant seem to 
connect with each other. Its a 
problem that many involved in 
campus political groups have 
taken note of. Now, with politi
cal interest in the national elec
tion bubbling over, CMU is expe
riencing a rare flurry of political 
action. Besides Naders wellreceived visit to CMU last week, 
two new student groups recently 
gained momentum. Last 
Thursday, Student Senate offi
cially recognized a campus chap
ter of the Green party (Naders 
ticket), and a group of student 
Democrats hopes to gain the 
same recognition by the middle 
of October.
Leslie Johns, a junior drama 
major, is the campus coordinator 
for the Nader campaign. She 
and a few other students have 
gathered around 35 names of 
people interested in the new 
Green party chapter on campus. 
She agrees with Carrolls sense 
of isolation - but now its wan
ing. She meets interested stu
dents everyday, she says.
I dont even know what 
groups exist, said Johns. Ive 
followed issues for a long time ... 
but I think a lot of people see the 
campus community not as a 
social community. We come in, 
go to class, we go home ... But it 
seems like a lot more groups are 
starting to form.
Her goals as chair of the 
group are about political aware
ness, not converting Bush/Gore 
supporters.
Its obvious from the 
[Nader] lecture that theres a 
tremendous interest in the ideas 
[on campus], Johns said. Its
not my main objective to make 
someone a supporter of Nader. I 
would like to see people ... try to 
educate themselves on public 
issues.
In the same way, the new 
group of student Democrats, led 
by sophomore Brian Namey, 
formed in part as a way to 
increase political dialogue on 
campus. In fact, some of their 
recent recruitment came with 
the help of the CMUs College 
Republicans, a group which has 
been active on campus for 
around 10 years. According to 
College Republican chair Jason 
Niemann at Septembers 
Activities Fair, the group had 
sign-up sheets for both parties.
Brian Namey, who is major
ing in international affairs and 
French, is heading the formation 
of the Democrat group. Namey 
hopes to have the group recog
nized by Student Senate in the 
next few weeks, and says he's 
looking into chartering a chapter 
of the National College 
Democrats.
Namey says there is a lot of 
interest on campus in having 
opposition groups, so students 
with any kind of political beliefs 
have an option to become 
involved.
Theres no [Democratic] 
society on campus, no organiza
tion for student democrats, said 
Namey. People are looking for 
groups to become associated 
with. I think the catalyst for this 
is the national elections, when 
peoples opinions have become 
more outright and forward ... 
Theres always interest. Its just 
how it manifests itself.
Quinten Steenhuis, a firstryear 
in H&SS, currently acts as the 
newly-formed Green party 
group's director of recruitment. 
Steenhuis, who grew up in 
another of the countrys centers 
of Green party support, Ithaca, 
New York, says he became active 
on campus by seeking out other 
students who were interested, 
and the Green party was the 
group that most closely matched 
many of his own political opin
ions.
Both of these new political 
groups face the same challenges 
when it comes to creating inter
est: Many students appear apa
thetic, and time is limited by 
workloads related to school and 
other obligations.
I heard a lot about the [apa
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Quinten Steenhuis, a first-year in H&SS, currently acts as the newly formed 
Green Party Group director of recruitment at CMU. He grew up in Ithaca, 
New York, a center for Green Party support.
thy on campus], said Steenhuis. 
I don't see it as being really 
apathetic. I think students are 
the best activists there are.
1 would rather dedicate much 
more time to knowing current 
events, said Namey, who, like 
many of these students, tries to 
keep up with day-to-day political 
news, but drops the ball when 
work and stress become too 
much. You don't have the ener
gy sometimes. It's physical and 
mental fatigue. I think it's typical 
on college campuses ... I see it as 
a problem.
Another challenge both these 
groups face is the problem of 
sustainability  Johns and 
Namey both consider the conse
quences for their groups once 
the national election passes and 
political interest wanes. Johns 
says she hopes the group will 
function permanently on cam
pus, even after she leaves to
study abroad next semester. 
Namey shares a similar concern.
Members who join this group 
will be people who wish to be 
members for a certain reason, 
said Namey, who cites local 
issues such as technological 
development and economic 
improvement as the first topics 
to tackle. It's our hope that 
these causes will not wane and 
ebb away.
One other development that 
may help sustain these groups is 
an upcoming series of forums on 
campus politics, where all these 
groups will be invited to speak 
to an audience. Planned by an 
informal group of students, the 
first event is about the televised 
presidential debates, and will 
take place on October 11, invit
ing all these political groups, 
and others such as Amnesty 
International to offer commen
tary on the candidates.
This past Friday night, students came to see a second installment of "Hardcore Frame, 
where senior Design majors Joe Fletcher and Matt Blum fought with barbed wire, trash cans, 
ladders, and tables.
by Anne Ray
Contributing Editor
Its Tuesday, September 26, 
and Duncan Carroll is waiting in 
the basement of the Unitarian 
Universalist Church on the cor
ner of Morewood and Ellsworth 
avenues. Its getting late, almost 
dinner time. The group of 100 or 
so is crowded into a meeting 
room, a warm hall set with 
chairs and long tables for the 
meal theyll be having soon. The 
mood is expectant  a television 
has been set up, and a few peo
ple cluster around, watching a 
tape of tonights much-anticipated guest: Ralph Nader. Carroll 
has waited weeks to finally see 
this man in person, and like the 
crowd, he was willing to pay the
$100 price for a ticket to 
tonights fundraiser for Naders 
presidential campaign. For 
Carroll, its worth it. Something 
big might happen  something 
might change.
The meal starts, and organiz
ers say Naders been delayed, 
that hes on his way. Carroll, a 
sophomore information systems 
and environmental policy major, 
unlike almost all of these 
fundraiser-goers, will get to see 
Nader twice tonight  once at 
the fundraiser, and later at a lec
ture in Rangos Hall. The crowd is 
mostly middle-aged, a few 
younger and elderly, but only a 
few around Carrolls age. Its a 
demographic that reflects 
Carrolls isolated situation on 
Carnegie Mellons campus: here, 
in this church basement, hes
Duncan Carroll, a sophmore information systems and environmental policy 
major, attended Tuesdays fundraiser for Ralph Nader's campaign.
v

---------------------------------------------------

B2THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 2, 2000
THE ERRNEEIE MELLON 
COLLEGE OF HUMRNITIE5 RND 5DCIRL 5CIENCE5 PRESENTS
?NE HUNDRED YERR5 DF MR55 CULTURE -
BEYONDI
5EPT 23 
?CT I ,
Mass culture is a twenlielh century phenomenon. But over the last century cultural critics 
from the Frankfurt School to the Birmingham Schoolhave vacillated between loving and 
hating it. With this conference we seek to move beyond the paradigm of good and evil. 
Plenary panel discussions will feature Richard Ohmann (Selling Culture: Magazines, 
Markets, And Class At The Turn Of The Century), Lynn Spigel (Make Room For TV: 
Television And The Family Ideal in Postwar America), James Naremore (More than Night: 
Film Noir in its Contexts), Michael Curtin (Redeeming the Wasteland: Television 
Documentary and Cold War Politics), Barry Shank (Dissonant Identities: The Rock'n'Roll
Scene in Austin, Texas), among many others. Concurrent sessions will address more 
specialized topics including the rise of "ballyhoo," the history of listening, white collar cull 
mass culture during the Cold War, music, film, fiction, and the representation of history
Sponsored by the Center for Cultural Analysis, the Deans' Office of the College of Humanities 
and Social Sciences, and the Department of English at Carnegie Mellon University
REH5TRRTIDN, FULL PRCJERRM, DF3EETON5, RND 
RC.f:DMMDDFTnaN5 INFTURMRTON RVRILRBLE RT:
http://hss.cmu.edu/massculture
Professor David Shumway(412) 268-7176 (shumway+@andrew.cmu.edu) 
Professor Kathy Newman(412) 268-6450 (kn4+@andrew.cmu.edu)
*?ii H'Cr'Oe H0tYeOetHe e.?%ctei c%W?Hr 0Y W0W H'Cr'Oe ct e&eOlf?l CcYe
by Blake Engel
Personnel Manager
This weekend, scholars from universities across 
the country gathered for the conference Mass 
Culture: Beyond Good and Evil. The event, put on 
by the Carnegie Mellon Center for Cultural 
Analysis and attended primarily by academicians 
and philosophers from the disciplines of music, 
English, and mass culture, covered topics ranging 
from history, music, film, and Depression and Cold 
War versions of mass culture.
After beginning with a plenary session, the par
ticipants broke into panel sessions. One panel ses
sion, Theorizing Mass Culture and Film, was a 
presentation of three professors recent papers on 
the topic.
Paul Young from the Georgia Institute of 
Technology theorized about the effect of jumps 
and skips in movies where certain traumatic events 
are simply left for the viewers to fill in, for 
instance, surgery. The technology of fade-ins and 
fade-outs, he said, has shaped the emotion of film 
watching. The absence of the blood in most melo
dramas, however, leads us to seek it in horror 
movies, where such scenes are the focal point of 
the action.
In the same discussion, Mark Harrison of the 
University of Pittsburgh read from his paper about 
attitudes regarding aliens - specifically, our fasci
nation and commercialization of them. Holding up 
candy containers and plush dolls with the familiar 
alien face and citing Close Encounters of the Third 
Kind and Star Wars, he succinctly illustrated how 
popularized the once eerie topic has become.
The third speaker in the event, Karen Atkins of 
Regis University in Denver, addressed the issue of 
privacy under the catch phrase of publicize the 
private, privatize the public. We value privacy for 
privacys sake, as in the case of gossip, which she 
called a symptom of witchcraft.
The evening plenary on Saturday, Mass Culture: 
How it is Actually Used, had four speakers, one of 
whom was Barry Shank. Shank had done research 
at Bowling Green State University, which has a 
library of signed and sent greeting cards. Shank 
discovered that the most common message in 
greeting cards is not a handwritten phrase, but 
underlined words in the cards inscription! 
Another man wrote the same message on a 
Valentines Day card two years in a row - to two 
separate women. He called these behaviors not 
good, bad, or even progressive, but a making do 
with pressures in society and culture.
Also at the plenary was Donald Lazere, who dis
cussed his ethnographic studies. He explained that 
radio culture of the 1930s cannot be unearthed 
because even asking someone who lived in that era 
will yield an answer put through the filter of 60 
years of interpretation since then.
Following the speakers comments, the audience 
sparked a discussion about the drug trade and its
Ptc&eOicrl 0Y we.?i ir'fetri ?Or 
e.vcMcr fee%ef O?Hc?CCl 0YYetic&e
Its just as ridiculous as believing 
little girls should be like this.  
Just like society expects girls to 
live up to the image of Barbie, he 
said, minorities are expected to 
adopt the persona of the Black 
Threat Barbie.
Heiges, who said a statement 
of the arts purpose should have 
been included with the piece, 
added that it was pulled because 
of the initial reaction of viewers.
Because people had such a 
strong emotional reaction, there 
wasnt even an opportunity for 
them to realize [the meaning of 
the piece], he said.
Stanfield said while he under
stands the councils decision, he 
doesnt agree with the exhibits 
removal.
I totally understand where 
theyre coming from, he said. 
Im just not sure whether or not 
it was a good idea to make this.
Camillia McKinney, chair of 
the African-American Culture 
Committee, said many members 
of the committee did not appreci
ate the pieces presence in the 
gallery.
They took it more as an 
offense than artwork, McKinney 
said. She said the main problem 
of the piece was that no state
ment or explanation from the 
artist was offered, leading stu
dents to believe the piece was 
simply stereotyping AfricanAmerican women.
I think it was a good artwork 
as far as trying to put the stereo
type out there and letting people 
know how stupid they are, but I 
just feel like everyone on campus
would not have seen it like that, 
she said.
McKinney added that mem
bers of the committee also felt 
that because the artist wasnt 
African American, he doesnt 
understand the culture. Etlihic 
tensions make the subject even 
touchier, she said.
Were at a predominately 
white university ... some people 
come from small towns, and they 
have no perception of black peo
ple, she said. This could skew 
their perception of what black 
people are.
McKinney added that the 
African-American Culture 
Committee and the Fine Arts 
Committee plan to develop a 
forum to discuss the effects of 
Black Threat Barbie.
But Susan Whyne, a studio art 
professor, said the Fine Arts 
Committee made the wrong deci
sion in removing the work.
Instead, she said, a statement 
of the pieces purpose should 
have been included.
Something could have been 
put up before it was taken down," 
she said. I think it would have 
been very easy to acknowledge 
that that was not its intention. 
Its never too late to put a notice 
up.
But Whyne added that there 
will always be people who dont 
see into the deeper meaning of 
an artwork and misinterpret' it.
Are we always going to have 
to have some kind of a statement 
.about every single piece of art 
that is feautred in the museum? 
she asked.
relation to mass culture. One audience member 
propose that it is hard to stop the drug trade 
because our capitalist culture encourages the stim
ulation of purchasing, not the halting of it.
A highlight of the weekend was Terminal Time, 
an interactive trip through history since the middle 
ages produced by Steffi Domike, Paul Vanouse, 
and Michael Mateas of Carnegie Mellon. Intended 
for post-banquet entertainment, the multimedia 
production asked the audience to respond by clap
ping to questions like What is the most exciting 
change in our times? or Is it okay for two men to 
kiss in public?
Based on the audiences answers to these ques
tions, the computer began showing clips like on a 
History Channel documentary, commentated by a 
computer voice and set to electronic music. Certain 
comments the video made seemed off-kilter, 
such as the suggestion that, during the American 
Industrial Revolution, men discovered women as 
a source of cheap labor.
The bias got clearer and clearer as more modern 
history was presented, and then the show was run 
a second time. This time the irony of the phrasing 
and the events presented was almost painful, as 
the audience had intentionally answered the com
puters multiple choice questions to seem radically 
chauvinist and apathetic.
For instance, the charges brought against 
women in the Salem witch trials were called rea
sonable, womens lives were made more fulfill
ing by suburban expansion and household appli
ances, and womens suffrage movements were 
labeled extremist feminist pressure. The presen
tation and discussion fit well into the scheme of 
the conference and its motif that culture is natural
ly put through the filter that groups of people 
impose upon it.
On Sunday, the Cold War, history, and music 
were panel discussion topics. One of them, Image, 
Melody and Sound: Mass Culture and Pop Music 
examined the evolution of Jamaican musical 
movements into ska. Blase Scarnati, an expert on 
this topic, linked Sinatras Rat Pack films with the 
advent of being bad as a popular image. 
Desmond Dekker, a Jamaican musician, wrote 
music in protest to political upheaval in the 1960s 
as the British lost control of Jamaica and American 
culture began to penetrate. The music further 
romanticized the once dirty image of petty crimi
nals.
Victor Cohen, also at the Image, Melody and 
Sound discussion, asked why so little instrumen
tal music is played on todays popular radio. The 
Ventures, a band who rode the popularity wave of 
NASAs creation, were one of the last great ones. As 
they became better known, tail fins found their 
way to Cadillacs and the 1964 Worlds Fair made 
people more future-minded. The Ventures knew 
that peoples desire for space exploration could be 
sold in music form, something that did not last 
long and hasnt yet returned in comparable 
strength.
(U-WIRE) AUSTIN, Texas  
The latest art exhibition on dis
play in the Texas Union gallery 
will close today, but one piece 
was removed more than a week 
ago due to its perceived racially 
offensive message.
The piece in question, entitled 
Black Threat Barbie, depicted a 
black mannequin holding a gun 
in one hand and a syringe in the 
other, placed inside a six foot 
pink box, which resembled an 
oversized Barbie doll package. 
The piece was part of a Fine Arts 
Committee exhibit entitled Have 
You Seen Me?
Nathan Heiges, a member of 
the Texas Union Council Fine 
Arts Committee and curator of 
the exhibit, made the decision to 
pull the piece after members of 
the University of Texas at Austin 
student body complained that 
the image was racially offensive.
I regret having to pull it, but 
I also regret the hard feelings it 
caused, he said. We certainly 
had no intention of upsetting 
people.
The artist, Roy Stanfield, a stu
dio art junior, said the point of 
Black Threat Barbie was to 
point out and criticize the image 
of minorities that society holds. 
By emphasizing and exaggerat
ing these perceived traits, he said 
he hoped to show the absurdity 
of these beliefs.
The Barbie doll is ridiculous 
and the Black Threat Barbie doll 
is even more so, Stanfield said. 
This was meant to say Hey, look 
at what I was taught to believe.
Courtesy of Beyond Good and Evil
This year's Mass Cultural conference featured 4 days of presentations and lectures on the impact of pop culture.
A segment of this year's University Lecture Series featured a Thursday afternoon talk about the DNA 
Identification of Czar Nicholas II. Victor Weedn, a Principal Research Scientist at Carnegie Mellons 
Science and Technology Center, was the keynote speaker. Weedn has worked as part of a team that 
has conducted numerous DNA identifications, including the Branch Davidian victims, TWA Flight 800 
victims, and the family of Czar Nicholas I.
CARNEGIE MELLON'S MOST UP-TO-DATE NEWS SOURCEhttp://tartan.web.cmu.edu/THE TARTAN 

---------------------------------------------------

fi#;-  y$:7**ki
THE TARTAN * OCTOBER 2. 2Q00
qO0Yeii0O w0Ml d?&ci OeYCeHri 0t vci re?Hvcts H?OeeO, Cc&cts ct qcrriM'Osv
by Asha Pathak
Business Manager
Otto Toby Davis, University Professor of Economics and Public 
Policy, has made quite a mark at Carnegie Mellon. During his time 
here, Davis has been an integral figure in the founding of the Heinz 
School, is one of the heads of the Social and Decision Sciences depart
ment, and frequently consults with the Human Relations Commission.
The Tartan: How did you get to Carnegie Mellon?
Otto Davis: As I was getting my PhD, I wanted to do a post-doctor
al, and there were two places where it would be desirable for me to 
go. One was MIT and the other was Carnegie Mellon. I had inter
viewed for a job at Carnegie Mellon, and told them I wasnt inter
ested in a job, but I would like to be a post
doctoral fellow. They said theyd be delighted 
to have me, and when I got the fellowship, 
that was all there was to it, so I came here. My 
plan was to go to MIT the following year, for 
the second part of my post-doctoral, but when 
the time came, Herb Simon called me into his 
office one day and said, We want you to stay 
here. Im telling you to quit this post-doctoral 
stuff and go to work. So I did.
in the past year in the area of benefits for domestic partners. As you 
know that consumed .... I would hate to say how much time that con
sumed. It was incredible - the amount of time I put into it. The 
Human Relations Commission hasnt met yet this year to establish 
our project. I have in mind some things I want that commission to 
do, but I dont want to talk about it until I talk to the rest of the mem
bers first. I think the area the commission is most interested in, and 
what is our real responsibility, is our Statement of Assurance. We are 
far from perfect in our adherence to the Statement of Assurance, and 
so I think theres a lot of work for us to do, to improve our campus 
and get us closer to those ideals expressed in the Statement of 
Assurance.
(Editors note: The Statement of Assurance identifies Carnegie
Mellon Univeristys non-discrirnination policy on admission, employ
ment, and program administration.)
TT: What were you studying as a post-doctor
al student?
OD: Econometrics and statistics which, at 
that time were big parts of graduate programs 
in economics, and I enjoyed the intellectual 
life of GSIA at the time. It was a very thriving 
and interdisciplinary place. People were very 
productive, and I had a good time there, so I 
stayed.
TT: Youre from South Carolina. Did you go 
to school there for your undergraduate educa
tion?
OD: I went to a small school in South
Carolina. I grew up on a farm. Neither one of 
my parents were college graduates, and my 
dad told me I could go to college as long as I 
stayed in the state of South Carolina. And so 
I picked out what I thought was the best little 
college in South Carolina and went there. I 
then decided to go to graduate school, and I 
went to the University of Virginia. They 
called that leaving home.
TT: Did your parents tell you to stay below 
the Mason-Dixon line?
OD: That was their preference! But then I 
came here, and it was ok, they thought. They 
didnt think Id stay here long, but Ive been 
here over 40 years.
TT: Was it strange coming up here from the 
South?
OD: It was interesting. In those days the 
South was much more underdeveloped than 
it is now. I sort of looked at it as being an 
out
of the South, actually.
When I first came here Id never been to
Pittsburgh, and I put a string on the map, and decid
ed I would follow the string - it would be the closest route. What I
didnt notice was that when it took me through West.Virginia, there
were no good roads through West Virginia, so it took me 2 days to
drive that trip.
TT: Tell us about some of the recent developments in the SDS 
department.
OD: Our big change is the move of the Information Systems pro
gram from the department to the college. As most people know, that 
program had strained out the department just about to the breaking 
point. The change to the college probably removes that strain, even 
though at the present time most of the students still are affiliated 
with our department, in terms of the electives theyre taking. I think 
thats fine. I think thats terrific. But it did remove enough pressure 
on our core courses and the incredible strain of having courses that 
were limited by the size of rooms that were available on campus. 
There are still large courses, but at least there isnt such a long queue 
of students on waiting lists. That was a very undesirable thing to be 
happening. In that sense I think the change was a success.
TT: Youre known for being a part of some very important decisions 
that the University has made in the recent past. Is there a particular 
project that youre working on now?
OD: Im very proud of what the Human Relations Commission did
Asha Pathak/Business Manager
Professor Toby Davis has been teaching in the Economics and Public Policy.department at CMU for the past 40 years. He now 
resides permanently in Pittsburgh, although he grew up on a tiny farm in South Carolina.
took several years for this to work through. I would guess its going 
to take several years again, maybe in the order of five or six, before 
well see prices begin to go substantially down. The real question is 
whats going to happen to the economy if prices stay up this way. 
This causes inflationary pressures.
TT: Youve been here for over 40 years. What is the biggest change 
youve noticed?
OD: The biggest change, of course, was the demise of steel. That 
was a tremendous change. This was really a steel town. When I first 
came here, there was a mill not too far from campus called Jones and 
Locklin, that was the largest employer in Pittsburgh. Now I think the 
largest employer is the University of Pittsburgh.
TT: Tell us what it was like.
OD: The steel mills were actually fairly dirty. I can remember 
walking across the Schenley golf course when 
the wind was blowing the wrong way, and 
smelling sulfur dioxide from the J&L mill, and 
thinking,Oh, my, another day like this!All 
thats gone now. The amount of soot in the 
air is greatly reduced. It used to be that if you 
opened your windows you had to dust a lot. It 
was just much dirtier.
TT: Tell us about your little Volkswagon
Beetle.
OD: Im very proud of my Beetle. I have a 
1967 VW Beetle. Its my toy. I thought I would 
have it in nearly mint perfect condition by 
now. Its almost there, but I never quite get 
enough time to do the last few steps that I 
want to do. But it runs well, it runs very well.
I sort of have a policy as a professor who 
interacts with graduate students. If they come 
from another country and they dont know 
how to drive, I teach them all to drive. I teach 
them all how to drive on the Volkswagon 
Beetle. I think that when you come from 
another country, one of the most important 
things for you to do is to get a drivers license. 
Thats essentially your ID in America. So you 
need to get one. So you need to learn to 
drive. So I have been following this practice 
of teaching my students to drive. We use the 
Beetle because thats the only car I have with 
a manual transmission. I think if you learn to 
drive, you ought to learn to drive on a manu
al transmission, because if you learn with an 
automatic youll never learn how to drive a 
manual.
TT: Has anyone broken it?
OD: No, no ones broken it yet!
TT: Has anyone come close?
OD: No, no, theyve done fine with me. Now, 
my view is, when you teach someone to drive, 
your car is going to be in an accident at least 
once. But, so far it hasnt been the Beetle. 
Weve moved to some of my other cars, and 
theyve been hit.
TT: How long have you been a part of these decisions? Since you 
started teaching here?
OD: Ive had an interesting career, I thrnk. Im proud of it. I was 
an associate professor when we started working on the creation of 
the Heinz School, and I was the person who did most of the legwork 
for that, in the creation of the Heinz School. Back then we called it 
SUPA. And I served as associate dean and dean of the school during 
those formative years. And Im proud of that accomplishment, and 
the fact that the Heinz School now is bigger than when I was there. 
Its now a very thriving operation. Ive taken part in a search for 
every president since Guyford Stever - Ill let others judge whether 
we were successful or not! I think we did pretty well, actually, for the 
most part. In that sense Ive enjoyed some unusual roles in the 
University. And I think our University has gotten a lot better over the 
years, so Im happy to have been here and done my little part.
TT: Do you, as an economist, have a prediction as to when the oil 
prices are going to come back down?
OD: OPEC is more sensitive than they were last time about driving 
up prices, and they only control about 1/3 of the oil. Several things 
can happen. Im sure were already beginning more exploration, and 
the prices of oil were so low that exploration had largely dried up. In 
addition, OPEC has never been able to totally stop all of its members 
from cheating on its obligations. The real behavioral issue is how 
soon the member nations will increase their cheating. Last time it
TT: How many cars do you have?
OD: I have one good car that my wife drives, 
and the rest.... I sort of drive these old, junky cars.
TT: Are they American cars?
OD: Theres one Ford, one Chrysler, and two 
Hondas.
TT: As you know, the United States has opened the Strategic Oil 
Reserve. Can you give us a brief analysis and an idea of what may be 
to come as a result?
OD: I dont think that the amount of oil were going to draw out of 
the Strategic Oil Reserve will make much of a dent in the market. It 
may help to smooth out some fluctuations. Weve never looked at 
alternative energy sources as we ought to have done, so were still 
dependent on, and at the mercy of OPEC. Now, the thing about 
OPEC is that although its back in the news and strong now, and this 
will last for a while, most cartels by themselves have trouble after a 
while. I suspect OPEC will, too. But I think as Americans we ought 
to have a much more active program in alternative energy, so that we 
dont keep finding ourselves in this kind of position. And we havent 
really examined alternative energy - not very seriously.
TT: What are your closing thoughts on CMU?
OD: I think we have a very nice university. I think we often under
appreciate what a nice university we have. Its an interesting intel
lectual place. Its a great place to get an education, and I think we all 
need to work to make it better.
u?Otesce aC%?t?H
50 YEARS AGO, October 3, 
1950  Students and alumni 
were hard at work planning the 
Homecoming festivities, which 
were to be the largest in the 
schools history. In addition to 
Homecoming, the weekend 
would also feature the inaugura
tion of Dr. J.C. Warner and a cel
ebration of the Universitys fifti
eth anniversary. General chair
person Ruby Weisberg headed up 
the student planning group, 
which consisted of over 20 sepa
rate committees, each designed 
to effeciently organize a different 
days events.
The centerpiece of the week
end would be Saturday nights 
all-campus semi-formal dance, 
held in the William Penn Hotel. 
Although the Homecoming 
dance had not been held offcampus in several years, the stu
dents and alumni both felt the 
three coinciding events deserved 
a top-notch dance. Organizers of 
the event touted the ticket price 
of $2.50, which they claimed 
was the best deal students had 
ever been offered for a
Homecoming dance.
25 YEARS AGO, September 
30, 1975  Carnegie Mellon and 
the Education Mission of Saudi 
Arabia launched a new program 
designed to train college-age 
Saudi Arabian students to work 
as technical translators. The ini
tial group of twenty-five stu
dents, most of whom had no 
more than a rudimentary knowl
edge of English, began taking 
courses in May to improve their 
speech, understanding, and writ
ing skills.
The program was designed to 
meet needs of Saudi Arabias 
rapidly expanding industrial 
growth. Following their two 
years of study at Carnegie 
Mellon, the students were 
expected to return to Saudi 
Arabia and fill the increasingly 
high needs for bilingual employ
ees to work in a variety of fields 
such as engineering and manage
ment.
In addition to their English 
studies, the students took cours
es taught by faculty from a variety of departments, including 
math, science, and industrial 
management. University offi
cials involved with the project 
were pleased with how the group 
had added to the schools inter
nationalism and how they had 
benefited both intellectually and 
culturally from interactions with 
their American counterparts.
10 YEARS AGO, October 1, 
1990  The Department of 
Computer Science marked its 
25th anniversary with a threeday symposium honoring the 
nationally ranked programs 
myriad achievements. Featured 
speakers included well-known 
Carnegie Mellon professors 
Allen Newell and Herbert Simon. 
The celebration was dedicated in 
memoriam to Alan Perlis, the 
first Computer Science 
Department head.
The events kicked off on 
Thursday with a campus-wide 
open house, which featured lec
tures and demonstrations 
designed to give the campus an 
idea of the wide variety of work
and research the department 
does. The rest of the weekend 
had no official theme; planners 
decided that trying to focus on 
one aspect of the department 
would squelch some of the diver
sity characteristic of computer 
science. Today, the Computer 
Science Department at CMU is 
tied for number one in the coun
try with MIT, making it one of 
the most competitive programs 
to get into overall at the universi
ty.
FIVE YEARS AGO, October
2, 1995  Humanities and 
Social Sciences Dean Peter 
Stearns was honored with the 
Robert Doherty Award, a prize 
given annually to a faculty mem
ber for substantial and sus
tained contributions to excel
lence in education. Stearns, 
perhaps best known for teaching 
the introductory history course, 
had been at the University since 
1974 and had been H&SS dean 
since 1992.
Stearns, who taught over 20 
different history related classes
in his department, including the 
required H&SS course 
Introduction to World History, 
was also an active researcher 
and author. He studied the his
torical and social impacts of top
ics including old age, masculini
ty, and obesity. Teaching was 
always at the forefront of his 
activities; after winning the 
award he remarked that if I go 
for half a year without teaching,
I really itch.
ONE YEAR AGO, October 4,
1999  Students expressed their 
dislike for the architectural style 
of campus buildings like the 
University Center and the Purnell 
Center by projecting slides onto 
Purnell. The slides, which were 
images of Nazis and Third Reich 
architecture, were meant to pro
voke thought about how closely 
some of the campus architecture 
resembled the work of Nazi 
architect Albert Speer.
The students explained that 
part of the impetus for their
demonstration was that they felt 
that the buildings didnt reflect 
any of the creativity or innova
tion that people associate with 
CMU, and that they wanted to 
raise peoples awareness of the 
matter. CMU architect Paul 
Tellers, who was involved with 
the design of the building, 
defended the structure of the 
buildings. He pointed out that 
the design of the buiMings and 
the surrounding area drew inspi
ration largely from Thomas 
Jeffersons academic village at 
the University of Virginia. In 
addition, Tellers mentioned that 
the buildings were also designed 
to embody the work of former 
University architect Henry 
Hornbostel. Since both 
Hornbostel and many of the 
Third Reich architects had been 
trained in the Beaux Arts style 
popular around that time, Tellers 
explained that similarities were 
inevitable.
Compiled by 
Andy Francis

---------------------------------------------------

Business
2 October 2000THE TARTANPage B4.
S?CC orOeer 
W?li &cicr r0 
weHv orOeer
Young Mellon-heads
by Jessey Paul
Young Mellon-heads, named in 
honor of the wealthy Andrew Mellon, 
will be a regular-appearing column 
featuring the opinions of CMU busi
ness students.
Over the next ten days, CMU will 
host six info sessions by five 
investment banks from Wall Street. 
Three banks came last week to 
make their pitches. Most of these 
banks are not new to CMU campus. 
Theyve come before, seeking stu
dents who will provide technologi
cal solutions to their companies in 
one manner or another. Their 
presence is not as surprising as 
their objective when they arrive. 
These investment banks are seek
ing Carnegie Mellon undergradu
ate students for financial positions.
I became curious about the 
investment banks newly found 
attraction to our campus. A num
ber of reasons may explain this 
seemingly sudden interest in find
ing CMU students to fill positions 
not involving technology.
CMU has very talented students 
with strong quantitative and analyt
ical skills. Students' aptitude is defi
nitely the primary motivation for 
companies to recruit, although, 
CMU has a history of producing tal
ented, motivated undergraduates. 
Why are they accessing it only now?
CMU has alumni at many invest
ment banks. Carnegie Mellon's rep
resentation at various banks is not 
comparable to that of Ivy League 
recruiting core schools. However, 
we do have alumni at a number of 
banks, from both the undergradu
ate and graduate levels. But once 
again, CMU has a history of stu
dents finding employment at 
investment banks. A network of 
alumni does exist, though they 
remain somewhat disconnected 
from undergraduate students. 
Why the sudden initiatives?
Our undergraduate business pro
gram is currendy ranked 5th in the 
US (according to US News and 
World Report). Rankings serve as a 
measure for investment banks to dis
cern the schools to which they will 
devote recruiting resources. CMU is 
gaining the reputation business that 
it has achieved for technology.
Students worked at these invest
ment banks over the summer. I can 
name an undergrad who worked at 
each of the banks this summer in 
some capacity: IT, e-commerce, and 
finance. I contend that the perfor
mance of students this summer com
pelled investment banks to finally 
devote resources to our school and 
begin to build relationships. 
Students individual performances
See HEADS, page B5
or'fetri irO'ssCe r0 fe?C 1crv HOefcr H?Of feMrStudent debt poses national problem
The second on a two-part series 
concerning the credit card industry.
about 70 percent of students at 
four-year colleges have at least one 
credit card with an average revolv
ing debt of over $2,000.
Mannings study also estimates 
that one-fifth of four-year college
by Brad Grantz
Business Editor
Josh Walstrom recendy departed 
for graduate school with the prestige 
and indebtedness typical of a CMU 
graduate. However, his fiscal obliga
tions were not the $18,000 in student 
loans the typical Carnegie Mellon stu
dent amasses, but Walstrom was able 
to avoid the financial liabilities of an 
education. Walstrom was not able to 
duck a continuous cycle of credit card 
debt.
Walstrom left Pittsburgh with a 
mere $1,000 worth of debt, pen
nies when compared to what he 
owed at the end of his sophomore 
year. Once he had his first card, he 
received applications from many 
other companies.
I figured I would need one Visa, 
one Mastercard, one American 
Express. It became very easy to 
charge a purchase if I didnt have 
the cash, he said while joking.
By the time Walstrom had accu
mulated eight cards, he also owed 
$5,000 to the credit card industry.
I was able to land a lucrative 
internship to rack up $3,000 to 
$4,000, but I was spending half of my 
earnings paying off redit card debt.
Many are not as fortunate to land 
a high-paying summer job to cover 
their hides from the spending fren
zy during school.
In 1997, University of Central 
Oklahoma freshman Mitzi Pool 
hanged herself in her dorm room 
while awash in $2,500 worth of 
debt. While such an extreme and 
tragic case is unusual, lawmakers 
and consumer groups are closely 
examining the issue of student 
indebtedness.
According to a student survey 
conducted by sociologist Robert 
Manning, currently an adjunct pro
fessor at the University of Texas,
Manage 
Your money
1. Live within your means. Credit 
cards shouldnt be viewed as free 
money. TYeat it like a debit card 
unless its an emergency use.
2. Credit cards can be beneficial. 
Use them to build a credit history, 
not as free-flowing credit.
3. Exceed the minimum monthly 
payment on your bill. Doing the 
bare minimum will take you years 
to pay off.
4. If you run into a billing prob
lem, call the company. You may be 
able to avoid surcharges so they can 
maintain your business.
5. Shop around. The fact of the 
matter is there is a specific card to 
fit your needs. Get the free goods 
from the marketers, but dont be 
snookered. 
6. Always read the fine print.
Affinity cards topic of controversy
students possess a $10,000 or high
er amount of credit card debt.
The saga doesnt end for 
Walstrom. He rectified his credit 
woes through his summer intern
ship, but during the school year, he 
returned to his spending ways.
I was eating out at every night at 
$20 or $30 bucks a meal, which 
would add up to $100 to $200 a 
week, he recounted. There are a 
lot of great restaurants in 
Pittsburgh.
Walstrom found that when he 
was near his credit limit, credit 
card companies would extend his 
limit. While he continued to pay off 
his minimum balance plus whatev
er his means would allow, he 
appeared to be a successful bor
rower for the creditors.
Secondly, companies would offer 
Walstrom new cards with lower 
interest rates and an option for a 
balance transfer.
See DEBTOR, page B5
by Brad Grantz
Business Editor
Students arent the only ones 
receiving freebies from credit card 
companies for signing up for a card. 
CMUs Alumni Association estab
lished an affinity card program 
with Maryland Bank of North 
America (MBNA) in 1993, whereby 
MBNA was able to market a card 
with a CMU identity to the schools 
55,000 alumni and 8,000 students.
In return, Carnegie Mellons 
Alumni Association receives royal
ties on purchases made by affinity 
cardholders. In July 1999, CMU 
negotiated a five-year contract 
extension with MBNA to continue 
the affinity card program. The 
Alumni Association accepted an 
advance on royalties in addition to 
the future considerations. 
However, terms of such advance 
were undisclosed.
Credit card companies dont 
want colleges comparing their 
advances, so they keep that infor
mation confidential, said Jennifer 
Neubauer, director of Alumni 
Relations.
Carnegie Mellon is not alone in 
connecting with the credit card 
industry. The affinity card program 
became very competitive between 
MBNA and smaller rival First USA. 
a division of Bank One Corp. about 
eight years ago. While colleges 
receive important financial contri
butions used to keep certain pro
grams afloat, ranging from lecture 
series to college media equipment, 
credit card companies gain access 
to valuable college customers.
The key issue now is that the 
there are fewer and fewer banks in 
the credit card industry. Therefore, 
college students are a most impor
tant niche, said Robert Manning, a 
sociology professor and leader of 
one of a renowned college credit 
card study.
Studies have shown that a
debtors first credit card can last on 
average for 15 years. MBNA solicits 
CMU students via a direct mailing 
once a year and alumni four times a 
year.
Essentially, we [the Alumni 
Association] endorse this product 
that is marketed to the students 
and alumni, said Neubauer.
The royalty advance is based on 
projections calculated by MBNA. 
CMU receives all royalties above 
and beyond the amount, but does 
not repay any shortfall. A ten per
cent share of the advance was for
warded to the Dean of Students 
office in the amount of $100,000, 
according to Dean Michael 
Murphy. The advance helped pay 
for Dimensions, a lecture series 
about student affairs such as time 
management. Two leadership pro
grams also benefited from the ten 
percent advance: Emerging
Leaders and Carnegie Mellon 
Leadership Initiative (CMLI).
The Alumni Association uses a 
portion of the proceeds to fund the 
Student Alumni Relations 
Association (SARC). SARC spon
sors several events throughout the 
year, especially during 
Homecoming and Spring Carnival.
One half of the remaining 90 per
cent is to be distributed over the 
five-year contract to the alumni 
and students, while the other 50 
percent is invested in the endow
ment.
CMU collects a half percent of all 
retail purchases by alumni and a 
flat rate of $.15 per student charge. 
Additionally, the deal gives the | 
University one dollar for every 
alumnus with an account having a 
year-end balance or annual fee and 
three dollars for a student who 
meets those same conditions.
Currently, 2,308 alumni possess 
affinity cards in addition to the 273 
students with open accounts.
While in many instances, the 
affinity deal restricts other compa
nies from soliciting cardholders, 
CMU students can be relieved that
See AFFINITY, page B5GSIAs Atila conquers interdisciplinary idea gap
%eimaid BL
E0O 2YCrYe11A
Vivek Sridharan/Junior Staffwriter
Atila Omer is challenging students in multiple disciplines to join together to 
promote their ideas and abilities. His interactive Web site, 
CarnegieExchange.org, officially opens its doors October 13.
by Vivek Sridharan
Junior Staffwriter
Sleep less, dream more, is one of 
the slogans being thrown around by 
the creators of Carnegie Exchange, 
(www.CamegieExchange.org) a pro
ject aimed at connecting together 
people with ideas and helping them 
jumpstart entrepreneurial ventures 
at CMU. Carnegie Exchange is a 
forum for taking good ideas and 
doing something with them, said 
Atila Omer (GSIA 01), the director 
of the project. The web site is set to 
kick off on October 13, coinciding 
with the start of the ESITE start-up 
fair.
The development of Carnegie 
Exchange started last year, with a 
team of graduate students, profes
sors in various disciplines, and 
including advisors from each of the 
seven colleges. Their idea enticed 
Donald H. Jones, who provided the 
initial funding and enabled the site 
to be hosted through the Center for 
Entrepreneurship in GSIA that car
ries his namesake. Currently, the 
project involves six students and 
two professors. The team has 
enjoyed the blessings and help of 
the school administration.
Ian McCullough, a masters stu
dent in the Entertainment 
Technology Center, pointed out 
that the faculty and staff of the 
Donald H. Jones Center for 
Entrepreneurship have been instru
mental in the evolution of this proSee EXCHANGE, page B5
?cb ?OceYi
Unilever washing 
away fiscal losses
CHICAGO (AP)  Unilever will 
close the Chicago factory where it 
manufactures shampoo and skincare products, eliminating 600 
jobs, company officials said.
The announcement Friday came 
four years after Unilever bought 
Chicago-based Helene Curtis, say
ing it intended to maintain the 
manufacturing facility in the city.
A company executive said the 
move was part of the companys 
effort to eliminate 25,000 jobs and 
close 100 major production sites 
around the world. A Unilever 
spokesman said the company was 
unable to expand the Chicago facility.
Shell out the big 
bucks for ransom
LAGOS, Nigeria (AP)  Militant 
youths kidnapped 12 Shell Oil tech
nicians in a bid to force compensa
tion for an alleged oil spill, news 
reports said Friday.
The identities of the captives 
were unclear although they were 
all believed to be Nigerians.
A spokesman for the captors, 
Victor Okpo, told the Guardian that 
the youths were demanding $1.5 
million for an alleged oil spill in 
1989 at Shell A installation near the 
community, where he claimed 
ensuing environmental damage 
had disrupted farming and fishing.
Oil company workers are regular
ly kidnapped in Nigerias southern 
oil-rich Delta by ethnic militants 
seeking lucrative oil revenues from 
the government and ransom money 
from multinational firms.
L.A. becomes City 
of Labor
LOS ANGELES (AP)  Actors 
may play bus drivers on television, 
but rarely do they stand with them 
on sidewalks, holding placards and 
shouting for economic justice.
Such are the forces at work trans
forming Los Angeles from a town 
historically hostile to organized 
labor to one nearly paralyzed by 
unions that have brought buses, 
office buildings and even TV com
mercials to a screeching halt.
At a rally Friday, actors, postal 
workers and teachers joined strik
ing bus drivers and rail operators to 
pressure transit officials to settle a 
strike that began Sept. 16.
Kent Wong, director of the 
University of California at Los 
Angeles Center for Labor Research 
and Education, said the citys sim
mering, labor movement reached 
full boil this year in part because of 
the growing immigrant work force, 
the areas diversified economy and 
tremendous disparities between 
rich and poor.
Compiled by 
Bryan Kaplan
Market Newscompiled and designed by Aseem Gupta/Online Editor
MARKETSNASDAQ THIS WEEK
index 9/18/00 Friday
Dow Jones Industrials 10,733.91 10,650.92
Nasdaq Composite 3,860.66 3,672.82
American Stock Ex. 922.45 954.31
Standard & Poors 1,452.43 1,436.51
WORLD MARKETS______________________
Point Chg. % Change
(82.08) -0.76%
(187.84) -4.87%
31.86 3.45%
(15.92) -1.10%
Index 9/18/00 Friday
FTSE 100 (Britain) 6,256.00 6,809.50
Nikkei (Japan) 15,747.26 16,739.78
DAX (Germany) 6,787.36 7,367.51
Point Chg. % Change
(553.50) -8.13%
(992.52) -5.93%
(580.15) -7.87%US and world markets fall
Mon. Tues. Weds. Thurs. Fri.
NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks fell 
sharply Friday, led by a slumping tech
nology sector, after an earnings warn
ing by Apple Computer revived anxi
ety about corporate earnings.
The decline marked an end to a 
volatile month. Stocks tried but failed 
to stay in positive territory as a series 
of companies, including Apple and 
Intel, warned that their profit reports 
would fall short of expectations.
The Dow Jones industrial average 
closed down 173.14 at 10,650.92, 
down 196.45 compared to a week ago. 
Friday's drop nearly wiped out the 
Dow's nearly 196-point gain of the day 
before.
The Nasdaq composite index fell 
105.50 to 3,672.82, off 130.94 for the 
week. The Standard and Poors 500 
index dropped 21.78 to 1,436.51, 
down 12.21 for the week.
The market got a brief respite from 
the anxiety Thursday, but Apple's 
warning, issued after the market 
closed, undid some of those gains. 
Apple ended the day down $27.75 at
$25.75, a nearly 52 percent loss.
Other technology stocks also fell. 
Gateway fell $9.29 to $46.75. Hewlett 
Packard was off $9.25 at $96.88. 
Lucent slipped $1.25 to $30.50. And 
chipmaker Intel fell $2.88 to $41.56, 
furthering a decline that began last 
week when it warned of weak earn
ings.
An earnings warning from United 
Airlines sent it down $2 to $42.
Also Friday, the Commerce 
Department released a report showing 
Americans' incomes grew by 0.4 per
cent last month in addition to a 0.3 
percent gain in July. But spending rose 
faster, by a brisk 0*6 percent in both 
July and August.
Advancing issues were about even 
with decliners on the New York Stock 
Exchange. Consolidated volume came 
to 1.41 billion shares, compared with 
the 1.39 billion in the previous ses
sion.
Britain's FT-SE100 was up 0.48 per
cent, and France's CAC-40 dropped 
0.70 percent.
THE TARTAN STOCK INDEX
About the Index: The index is based on 16 widely held stocks that 
we feel represent Pittsburgh based and national companies'that 
CMU students are interested in. The index is based on a start-date 
of 24 January. The initial index is calculated by adding the value 
of the 15 stocks together and multiplying by ten.
THE INDEX AT A GLANCE ____________
Open: 8,769.06 Close: 8,046.41 
Change: +633.28 Percent change: -8.24% 
Year to date performance: -5205.00 
Best performer: NY Times, +3.68, +10.34% 
Worst performer: Apple, -29.48, -53.38
INDEX STATISTICSSINCE SEPT. 18
CompanyFriday09/18/00Change
Alcoa25.3128.59-11.46%
Apple Computer25.7555.23-53.38%
Cisco Systems55.2562.75-11.95%
Freemarkets57.1364.69-11.69%
H.J. Heinz Co.37.0535.384.76%
Lycos68.7771.25-3.49%
Mellon Bank46.3844.883.33%
Microsoft60.3164.19-6.04%
New York Times39.3135.6310.34%
PNC Bank65.0061.136.33%
PPG39.6938.134.08%
Qualcomm71.2566.257.55%
Sun Micro.116.75113.063.26%
US Airways30.4434.94-12.89%
USX Steel15.1917.00-10.66%
Market data sources: NYSE,NASDAQ, & The AP. The information 
contained in "Market News" is not to be construed as financial 
advice from The Tartan or Carnegie Mellon University.
Tech Transfer Office jumpstarts spinoffs
by Ish Harshawat
Editor-in-Chief
Its no secret that Carnegie 
Mellon is a breeding ground for 
new technology start-ups. A recent 
article in the Wall Street Journal 
nicknamed Pittsburgh as 
Roboburgh, which in every way 
can be linked to the direct influ
ence of the Robotics Institute at 
CMU. However, it is not always 
apparent how companies get spun 
off at the University.
Entrepreunerial activity is, by no 
means, concentrated in one area or 
one office on campus. 
Undergraduate students, faculty, 
and graduate students alike brain
storm ideas, submit plans to the 
local enterprize business compe
tition, communicate over the new 
Carnegie Exchange web site, and 
create plans for entreprenuerial 
classes. It is by various means, 
therefore, that an idea on campus 
can grow into a startup company. 
One of these is through CMUs 
Technology Transfer Office (TTO).
University-funded research 
sometimes yields innovations or 
inventions. Often they are dis
closed to the TTO. The office was 
founded by Mark Cottichia, who 
headed it until last year. Cottichia 
co-founded Lycos, probably CMUs 
most successful and most widelyknown start-up to date. Last year, 
Cottichia left CMU to join Redleaf,
Inc. a venture captial firm and incu
bator that funds and provides solu
tions for new start-up solutions.
It was the logical next step in my 
career, said Cottichia. Cottichia is 
the senior director of dotDorm, the 
division of Redleaf concerned with 
developing start-ups coming out of 
universities. He developed many of 
the methods and strategies for 
spinning off companies from the 
University. His current job involves 
doing this on a much broader scale 
with universities around the coun
try. Recently, Redleaf applied many 
of the strategies that Cottichia 
founded at CMU to the University 
of Pennsylvania in order to help the 
school, especially its prestigion 
Wharton Business School develop 
business ideas for commercial use.
According to Cottichia, the area 
in which Redleaf has seen the most 
ideas come from CMU is Internet 
Security, which he said could 
become very successful for the 
University. According to. Robert 
Wooldridge, deputy director of the 
TTO, other areas that may generate 
start-up potential include robotics, 
machine translation, optical net
working, and distance learning.
The TTO, said Wooldridge, is 
held in high regard among peer 
institutions and CMU has consis
tently placed in the top ten univer
sities in terms of start-up activity.
Redleaf is one of the companies 
that the office works with to pro
vide funding and support for its 
spin-offs. If there is CMU-owned 
intellectual property involved in 
the commercialization of an idea, 
the University usually stands to 
gain some sort of financial benefit 
from the successful deployment of 
a start-up company. This may come 
in the form of equity, royalties, or a 
hybrid of the two.
Among its mission goals, the TTO 
strives to create benefit not just for 
the University as a whole but for 
the Pittsburgh community by stim
ulating the surrounding economic 
environment. When asked whether 
a lot of the start-ups end up staying 
in Pittsburgh, Wooldridge replied, 
My sense is that more are staying 
than leaving, but it is still rather 
early. Wooldridge added that 
often a successful exit for a startup 
is often acquisition instead of an 
Initial Public Offering. In these 
cases the parent company may pro
vide more resources to its local 
operations, but may also choose to 
leave the Pittsburgh area.
Redleaf launched its east coast 
operations from Pittsburgh, 
according to Coticchia, because of 
the strength of the strong research 
environment found around Pitt and 
CMU. Redleaf, which has opera
tions around several important 
research areas it refers to as 
NetHubs sees most of its start-up 
potential coming from CMU, said 
Coticchia.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 2, 2000
Credit card industry capitalizing on student populace
Busin from page B4
It appeared to be effective 
income, when it really isnt. You 
still have to pay off the old balance 
at the previous rate. .
While cases of extreme credit 
card debt do occur, Carnegie 
Mellon has been particularly adroit 
at avoiding the problem. Dean of 
Student Affairs Michael Murphy 
said the University and students 
have examined the issue in the 
past.
It was an issue that came up last 
year. We didnt have particular evi
dence that [student credit card 
debt] made it a concern, but we 
did do a piece that tells people how 
to deal with credit card issues.
The group published a pamphlet 
included with bookstore purchases 
to advise students how to examine 
credit card applications intelligently.
Myvesta.org, a Maryland-based 
non-profit credit relief organiza
tion, found that 430 colleges have 
banned credit card marketing on 
campus. Several schools have 
restricted access to the student 
population to their affinity card 
company.
Marketing the student
Many opinions exist as to why 
students are the recipients of enor
mous lines of credits. The Web site 
of Market Source, a company dedi
cated to marketing products to col
lege students, states The nations 
15.5 million college students are 
impressionable consumers who
spend nearly $105 billion a year on 
a wide range of consumer goods 
and services. According to a 1998 
Campus Monitor study, college stu
dents have about $19 billion in dis
cretionary spending ability. With 
such buying power, it is no wonder 
that creditors are actively seeking to 
establish a relationship with the 
youngest group of consumers.
A study in the fall of 1998 by the 
U.S. Public Interest Research Group 
found that credit card companies, 
under the guise of third-party mar
keters, lure students to sign up for 
credit cards by rewarding applica
tions with free tee-shirts, calling 
cards, and Frisbees  almost 
essentials for CMU students unwill
ing to buy trendy clothing and liv
ing quite a distance from home.
One on-campus marketer, 
Citibank, declined to release details as 
to the effectiveness of the soliciting.
Critics of on-campus solicitation 
charge that corporations can avoid 
a great deal of responsibility and 
organization by outsourcing its oncampus prescence. Third party 
marketers, while trained by the cor
poration or a marketing parent, 
such as Market Source, work on 
commission. By being third party, 
they can also have ties with several 
competing credit card companies.
Marketing at CMU
A recent solicitor and proprietor 
of a company called Marketing 
Services (MS), at CMU said he 
obtains on average 50 or 60 appliGSIA student launches ideahub through DHJ Center
EXCHANGE, from page B4 
Iject. They have provided a tremen
dous amount in terms of resources 
and guidance. Also, we are enjoy
ing a great deal of support from the 
deans and department heads.The Carnegie Exchange is aimed 
at putting complementary groups 
together to develop ideas and dis
cover innovative thoughts. Omer, 
who earned his BA in finance from 
'Wayne State University in 
Michigan, saw a school with a rep
utation for entrepreneurship and 
seven colleges with excellent indi
vidual reputations but a severe lack 
of interaction between them. He 
hopes the Carnegie Exchange will 
promote interaction between the 
colleges students, toward entrepre
neurial ends.
For example, if a computer sci
ence major has an idea for a Web 
site, he could contact a student in 
:the GSIA to help him figure out the 
market demand, and an art student 
, to visually design the Web site.
The system used to connect users 
i; of the Carnegie Exchange is extra
ordinarily simple, but very effi
cient. Everyone who registers as a 
user fills out a profile that details 
the education, experience, and 
especially the various skills he or 
she may have. In addition, users 
can list thoughts and ideas. They 
can see each others profiles and 
"contact people whose skills and 
ideas interest them. The founders 
agree that CMU is the ideal place to 
try this. While he stated, This is 
going to be what people make from 
Omer has confidence in the 
CMU community.
Regardless of major, CMU stu
dents are all trained as specialists in 
their respective fields. The syner
gistic potential on this campus is 
unparalleled, added McCullough.
Initially, the plans involved creat
ing links within the student body 
and between the student populace 
and professors. However, the group 
has big plans to include much of the 
professional community. Omer 
remarked that, If one deal comes 
out of this, it validates the model 
for ten years. First, they want to 
tap the vast brain trust of Carnegie 
Mellon alumni. Later, they would 
like to include companies with 
established relationships with CMU 
and allow them to take a look at the 
ideas of students. Finally, they want 
to connect venture capital firms 
with the Carnegie Exchange to 
finance the ideas and make them 
concrete.
While Omer swears that the 
Exchange will remain non-profit at 
CMU, the founders do acknowl
edge that the idea could be prof
itable in the future. It could take 
hold at the academic level nation
wide, stated Omer. It has applica
tions for every sort of institutional 
setting, and the technology has 
come together to make this easy to 
implement anywhere.
Though they hope to eventually 
extend it, the creators have no 
immediate plans, perhaps because 
profit is not the main motivation 
for these students. It was more 
about seeing a need and realizing 
that if we didnt do it, it probably 
wouldnt have been done, said 
Omer.
WHAT DOES OPPORTUNITYLOOK LIKE TO YOU?
Do you shy away from a challenge, or do you see 
it os an opportunity to prove yourself? At 
Schlumbergor, wo thrive on new challenges. 
Theres no mountain too high, or valley too deep. 
We build and operate the most advanced tech
nology on the planet and travel to the ends of the 
earth to implement it Schlumberger lives up to 
it the challenge no matter where our clients need 
us to go. Our employees are trained to operate 
the technology of today, and are challenged to 
create the technology of tomorrow. Are you up to 
the challenge?
Carnegie Mellon 
Interviews
Information Meeting: 
October 5, 2000
epag 4Ept rm7miaV
ol9u igu 5glrru,IuV 
@umdu igu w..Etip,mi4V 
cmami Ept busamiuV
[>www.5lb.com<
Interviewing:
October 6, 2000
Check with Career Services 
for Details
cations a day. Last Thursday, he 
filed almost 170. Of those with cor
rect information, he said he collects 
a $3 commission.
A corporate marketer must pay 
$150 for a three-day stay at CMUs 
campus. The solicitor said the vast 
majority of applications contain 
true information. Therefore, if MS 
filed 40 of 55 applications accu
rately during each of the three 
days, MS would amass $320, or a 
$170 profit.
This past week, a number of firstyears were completing their first 
credit card application. Sean 
Waters, a first-year in IDS, complet
ed his first form at college in return 
for a free tee shirt.
Waters opened a credit card 
account when he first turned 18 in 
hopes of building a credit history. 
While accumulating a $200 to $300 
a month credit card debt, Waters 
has been perfect in paying off his 
monthly balance.
Suparna Saha, a junior in MCS, 
typified the CMU response to credit 
card marketing. I just did it [filled 
out the application] for the free 
phone card. Ive probably filled out 
ten of these since Ive been here.
The issue of on-campus credit card 
marketers is nothing new to Murphy. 
The University Student Affairs 
Council conducted some discussion 
last year whether or not we should 
be more restrictive about credit card 
companies advertising on campus.
Murphy added that if commer
cial activity was deemed out of
hand by the student body, I would 
have no difficulty at all restricting it 
to a level that students are comfort
able with.
Just charge my tuition
Sociologist Manning contends an 
unholy alliance between the cred
it card industry and schools is rais
ing prices in all sectors of the col
leges. While card companies profit 
off of a transaction fee in addition 
to interest payments, they can rake 
in large amounts on tuition payments.Many pParents and students 
interested in garnering frequent 
flyer miles often pay tuition and 
related bills through plastic.
Credit transactions have steadily 
increased during the four years the 
HUB has accepted credit payment. 
This past year, plastic was used 8,000 
times at the HUB for an average 
amount of $3,100. CMU accepted 
some $25 million in credit payment.
However, some schools have lost 
money by taking charge cards. 
Harvard University has stopped 
accepting credit cards because of 
the transaction fees.
Manning contends while schools 
receive monies for affinity cards, 
students are amassing thousands in 
credit card debt due to inflated 
prices for textbooks, tuition, and 
other expenses.
Students are obtaining a poor 
credit history. While we experience 
good economic times, credit card 
debt is masked by the fact the job 
market is so good.Affinity cards restrict options at other colleges
AFFINITY, from page B4 
no such stipulation exists. At the 
University of Tennessee, First USA 
negotiated a $16 million deal affinity-card deal with the school to be 
the sole-marketer of credit cards 
on campus. 26,000 students cur
rently attend the university in addi
tion to the some 270,000 gradu
ates. In terms of the dollar, First 
USA paid UT about $54 for each 
potential customer. However, a stu
dent debtor is weighted heavier 
than an alumnus.
Sociologists agree that affinity 
cards make debtors feel like a mem
ber of a club with cards, building 
brand loyalty for the company.
The idea of a sole credit card 
marketer at CMU was discussed last 
year by the University Student 
Affairs Council.
Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy said while the schools 
affinity card offers competitive 
rates, he concluded that such a 
decision should be made by the stu
dent.
We need to give CMU students 
credit enough to make their own 
decision. They understand the 
advantages and disadvantages of 
credit cards.
CMU / MBNA Affinity 
5ltB yItuu7u,i
The amount of the cash 
advance Carnegie Melton's 
Alumni Association received was 
undisclosed. However, the fol
lowing is a projection based on 
figures received from various 
sources.
10% of royalty projection cal
culated by MBNA advanced to 
CMU.
50% of remaining portion was 
forwarded to the endowment 
($100,000).
$222,222  Estimated royal
ty agreement between MBNA 
and CMU,
$190,000 to be distributed 
over the five years of the con
tract.
$5,000 each year used for 
student leadership programs.
$187,500 used by Alumni 
Association.
An equal opportunity employer.
Meet the PEOPLE of
www.eatonjobs.com
Accounting 
Engineering 
Human Resources 
Information Technology 
General Management 
Strategic Planning 
Supply Chain 
Technical Sales
Forbidden fruit tastes rotten to Apple shareholders
by Aseem Gupta
Online Editor
When Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL) 
fell hard on Friday, the cheesy 
headlines came out in force. Apple 
was sour, rotting, bruised, bitten, 
and it had lost its shine. When the 
market closed on Friday, Apple had 
lost more than 50 percent of its 
market value, or approximately $10 
billion  small change when com
pared to the daily movements of 
Cisco, or Intel, but still significant 
for the small company that many 
thought was on a comeback.
With a slew of new products 
introduced this year, including the 
G4, iBook and iMac, the G4 cube, 
an optical mouse, and OS X, Apple 
looked set to further increase its 
market share and its stock price. 
The latter had increased by over 
100 percent in the last year. 
However, all gains for the last year 
were wiped out on Friday.
The slide was prompted by an 
earnings warning by the Cupertino, 
California-based company. Weve 
clearly hit a speed bump, which will 
result in our earning, before invest
ment gains, approximately $110 
million rather than the expected 
$165 million for the September 
quarter, said Steve Jobs, Apples 
CEO. Though this slowdown is 
disappointing, we have so many 
wonderful new products and pro
grams in the pipeline... [we] 
remain positive about our future.
Apples slide set off a slew of sell
ing in the PC industry, which saw 
its competitors, IBM, Dell, and 
Compaq all losing ground on 
Friday. Analysts and PC industry 
representatives were quick to 
respond saying that Apples poor 
performance was not indicative of 
the industry as a whole.
Apples woes, amazingly, began 
before their earnings announce
ment on Thursday evening. 
Thursday morning, wire stories 
reported that customers who had 
taken delivery of the new G4 Cube 
were experiencing problems with 
cracks in the casing of the machine. 
Apple responded by saying that the 
cracks were naturally occurring 
and were simply a result of the plas
tic molding settling into place and 
were not indicative of any inherent 
design flaw. While some industrial 
designers agreed with Apples 
assessment of the cracks, Apple 
customers, notorious for buying the 
machines based on appearances, 
were not pleased. For customers 
who had shelled out more than 
$1,600 for the computer based on 
its looks alone, Apples reaction 
was not consoling.
Apple closed the week at $25.75 
after losing more than 27 points on 
Friday, closing at a new 52 week 
low.
?a ir'fetr W0tfeOi 
ctYC'. 0Y H0OW0O?re &cicri
HEADS, from page B4
as worker impact the perception of
Carnegie Mellon as a whole.
Undergraduate student organi
zations are working to improve the 
schools visibility. Students who 
worked at investment banks over 
the summer are maintaining the 
relationships theyve formed to 
encourage recruitment. Students 
are taking the initiative to contact 
alumni and connect them back to 
CMU. Alumni are one of CMUs 
most under-utilized resources. This 
is my appeal to students who will be 
taking full-time positions with com
panies that do not currendy recruit 
at CMU. As you endeavor to find that 
connection, make that contact, and 
get that job, don't forget the difficul
ties you encounter. Maintain your 
connection to CMU. Sophomores 
and juniors who seek internships: It 
is very frustrating to be turned away 
and told you are not wanted. We all 
experience it at some point. 
However, realize that when you do 
finally get an internship, you are 
working to establish your credibility 
as well as that of your school. 
Wherever we work, we represent 
Carnegie Mellon. We possess the 
ability to make our degrees more
A.vE7m,I vE7.l,4
INF0-SESSI0NS
October 2
Merrill Lynch
Porter Hall 125C, 7-9 pm 
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter 
Equity Financing Svcs 
Posner Hall 152, 7-9 pm
October 4
Salomon Smith Barney 
PH A18C, 7-9pm 
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter 
Rachel Mellon Room, Posner 7-9 
pm
Fixed Income Division 
Walton Room, Posner
October 5
Goldman Sachs 
Investment Management 
Hammerschlag Hall B131, 7-9 pm
October 9
JP Morgan Chase 
Sales & Trading 
PH A18B, 7-9 pm
valuable if we perform Well.
We can be proactive about estab 
lishing and preserving relation 
ships with companies.
S?tt? owamw
i0%ervctsk
Eaton Corporation. Who?
We're a high-tech, $8.4 billion global manufacturer 
of highly engineered products. Get out!
We're looking for exceptional graduates to 
join our ranks. Hey! That's me!
Visit us online. You're online? Sweet!
Or join us on campus. We're interviewing select candidates. 
That's me...again! Candidates attracted 
by a fast-paced business environment. I love it!
Are you challenged by a competitive 
work atmosphere, where teamwork is essential and the 
best idea wins? I'm there! Then register with career 
services for an on-campus interview. First in line, man.
We look forward to discussing your professional 
vision as a potential Eaton associate. I can't wait!
Go ahead. Start something with the best company you 
know nothing about. Try and stop me.
For more information or to apply online, 
go to www.eatonjobs.com, 
then check with your Campus Career Services Office.
wve ?2ow H0%W?tl l0' ,t01 t0rvcts ?M0'r---------------------------------------------------

'V 
<)< 
COLOR
KINETICS'
We Wuz Robbed!
If you attended the Technical Opportunities Conference (TOC) and spoke to Color 
Kinetics, we have a sad story to tell. Our rental car was broken into the following 
morning and several things were stolen including a laptop computer and, worst of all, 
all the r6sum6s we gathered at the TOC!
We apologize for the inconvenience but we would love to hear from you again! Please 
contact us at Color Kinetics. Send or email your resume to:
Kevin Dowling at kevin@colorkinetics.com or 
Fritz Morgan at fritz@colorkinetics.com
For those who missed us at the TOC, Color Kinetics is a fast growing start-up company 
that invented full spectrum digital lighting. Our technology combines LEDs, networks, 
embedded systems with great applications in architecture, retail, entertainment and 
much more! Visit our website for lots more detail on our products and our customers 
(www.colorkinetics.com). We are looking for people in the following areas: Computer 
Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and 
Mechanical/Industrial Design. We're hiring interns as well!
We're not a bubble dot bom. We have real technologies and products, real revenues, 
and real customers! Isn't it time for you to get real?
Color Kinetics Incorporated 
50 Milk Street 17th Floor  Boston, MA 02109 USA 
Tel 617 423 9999  Toll Free 888 FULL RGB  Fax: 617 423 9998 
www.colorkinetics.com  jobs@colorkinetics.com
REDUCE 
YOUR RISK
Meningitis and Flu Immunizations will be administered to Carnegie Mellon University students on...
Tuesday, October 3, 2000 
Walk-in immunizations are available 11:00 am - 7:00 pm 
University Center (Rangos Ballroom)
Meningococcal meningitis is a 
rare but serious disease. This 
brain and spinal cord infection 
can be fatal in 10 percent of the 
cases. Nationally, cases are 
increasing within the collegeaged population. The vaccine 
protects students from four of 
the five most common strains.
Influenza strikes hundreds of 
college students each year 
sometimes during mid-term or 
final exams. Students miss 
classes and are predisposed to 
complications such as 
bronchitis, pneumonia and ear 
infections. The vaccine is highly 
effective in preventing the flu.
Cost: Meningitis - $75, Flu - $10
Payment Options:
9 ?cCC r0 or'fetr aHH0'tr
(Must present vali student ID)
* uOefcr u?Of
(Visa, MasterCard, Amex)
For more information call: 1-877-482-2237 
or visit our website: www.vaccess.com
Sponsored by: Carnegie Mellon University Student Health Services
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAI FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING
wpaa3um2E WO0&cfei 
Yct?tHc?C i0C'rc0ti r0 
C?ir ? CcYerc%eCi>/( us far 
a free 
consultation j
Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out 
how those assets can provide you with a 
comfortable retirement is quite another.
At TIAA-CREF, we can help you with both. You 
can count on us not only while you're saving and 
planning for retirement, but in retirement, too.
Just call us. We'll show you how our flexible range of 
payout options can meet your retirement goals.
With TIAA-CREF, you benefit from something few 
other companies can offer: a total commitment to 
your financial well-being, today and tomorrow.
Note: Availability may depend on your employer's retirement 
plan provisions contract. Under federal tax law, withdrawals 
prior to age 59M may be subject to restrictions, and may also be 
subject to a 10% additional tax. Additional restrictions also 
apply to the TIAA Traditional Annuity.
With TIAA-CREF, you can receive:*
 Cash withdrawals
 Systematic or fixed-period payments*
 Interest-only payments
 Lifetime income payments**
 A combination of these
'Guaranteed by our claims-paying ability.
um2E GmNSw! auuNPnw
g5-7I3g7-87*g55I%
A F2am ao IE 5DhIDII5 F2amo 5DhIDIIopnu2 pnu2qwpNn 4Dg6D64
CREF Growih is one of many CREF variable annuities.
2ti'Octs rve Y'r'Oe A-8II-84g-g775Y0O rv0ie 1v0 iv?We cr-" 333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333www.tiaa-cref.org
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully 
before you invest. 1. Due to currerit market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The invest
ment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflects past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns 
and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemp
tion.  TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities.  Teachers Personal 
Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements.  TIAA and 
TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities.  TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services.
 Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.  2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03
junijiorSut CHlLOILEN IN 
.Oi/V->MCOME AMFAf AfUE 
M:AD/n/G THIlEE GfLADEi BEHtNt) 
THE IPfU&U#L&AM PEEM.
LtZ. WYE(l f TH/M> GiADE/t-r BEGAn/ THE YEAS. THAT 
pAfL BEHiwD. Oc On/E YEA*-, fHE f CAUGHT THEM P 
An/D tob THrv\ oc A i,EvEL PLAYiwG P/Ei.0.
We Need Muile Car We*.r.
ComP -E A*JC HO IV Yliv f An J0>N THE (OlPi Of OvTfTAMOiMG AwO OivEME .ECNT fOUFCF f r Of* A LU
AfADF.vyr .VIAviHO COMMIT TiVO YFAJ-f TO TEACH ihj Uof. k;ATiON f MUfT N/Ft-EfOvWfw tcApOtf.,
INFORMATION SESSION 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000  6:00 - 8:00 p.m. 
Carnegie Mellon University 
McKenna Room, University Center
TEACHFORAMERICA foC-TrAtfi/iV.V.Tf A<Ni>.AmE*iCA.*.
Fifcrr app-kation deadline a n cxTote*. jo, 2ooo

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
2 October 2000THE TARTANPage B7
Reviewer analyzes definition of boy 
band to discover Hansons new image
uNnu2mw m2Vp2S
by Debra Halpern
Junior Staffwriter
We are the MTV generation. 
Video Music Awards (VMAs), TRL, 
Real World, Road Rules, Say What 
Karaoke: they all have us trapped 
in a realm of pop culture. Being 
raised in this pop culture has taken 
away our notion of truth and false
hood. Carson Daly, who hosts TRL, 
excessively uses and loves the 
phrase Boy Band, but what is the 
true definition of a Boy Band?
The beginning of boy bands 
dates all the way back to the doo 
wop days with bands like the 
Temptations and the Four 
Seasons. However, since American 
culture has become more commer
cial and sexual, the boy bands that 
stand today bring a different 
meaning to the Boy Band defini
tion. The five key elements for 
todays Boy Band are (1) you 
must look good, (2) you must 
dress well, (3) you must be able to 
harmonize, (4) you must be able 
to dance, and (5) you must heavily 
depend on synthesized music. 
MTVs generation has confused 
the true definition of a Boy 
Band. MTVs TRL has confused 
BBMak and Hanson with N Sync 
and Backstreet Boys.
Hanson started all the confusion 
of what a Boy Band truly is com
posed of. The boys are young, 
cute, and their music does appeal 
to the mass of teenys, but they are 
not a true Boy Band. They do 
look good, they do dress well, and 
they do harmonize. However, they 
do not dance and they do not 
heavily depend on synthesized 
music, instead they go back to the 
important basics of writing and 
playing their own music. They 
busted into the music world with 
Mmmbop creating skeptics en 
masse. Zac Hanson told 92 Pro FM 
Rhode Island two weeks ago, I 
would actually like to see a 
Hanson concert, cause I would 
actually like to see how skeptical I 
am of us. Hanson even proved
they have shed the mass teeny 
concentration in their music with 
their new album, This Time 
Around, and their performance at 
Pittsburghs AJ Palumbo center 
last Monday. Their audience is 
growing into a more mature 
crowd, not only because of new
comers (including men) but also 
due to the fact that their fans are 
growing up with them. They have 
potential to become a part of one 
of musics reflections. For exam
ple, the Beatles later work  the 
work that shed their teeny appeal 
 was inspired by the Beach Boys 
Pet Sounds, while the Beach Boys 
Pet Sounds was inspired by the 
Beatles Rubber Soul. Hanson has 
already inspired new musical tal
ent, including their opening band, 
M2M. They have worked with Bob 
Weir from The Grateful Dead, 
Jonny Lang, John Popper from 
Blues Traveler, and many more 
who express interest in the bands 
potential to evolve.
Hansons performance at the 
A.J. Palumbo center shed new 
light on the bands future. The 
stage was captivated by Taylor 
Hansons performance and capa
bilities to give the audience a taste 
of true soul and showmanship  . 
even when the boys covered Janis 
Joplins Piece of My Heart, 
Taylor lived up to Joplins vocal 
skills. His brothers Isaac on guitar 
and Zac on drums proved to be 
upstaged by Taylors performance, 
but all three showed some raw tal
ent. Taylor Hanson told 
Allpop.com in a September inter
view, I want to keep the educa
tion of people on who Hanson 
truly is close. I want them to see 
the real changes as time is going 
by. The old and new songs 
Hanson performed on stage were 
no longer teeny and sugar-coated, 
but more edgy. Their new album 
shows an evolution from the 
Mmmbop days, but they have yet 
to bring this sound into their own. 
It is not unique at all at this point, 
but instead a transitional album 
showing the potential to get their
Debra Halpem/Junior Staffwriter
Issac Hanson is no longer a little teenie bopper. He turns 20 this November. 
His brothers' band's sound is getting older and more mature as well.
own sound the next time the boys 
come around. The only song from 
the new album that truly shined 
and was a highlight of Mondays 
performance is the title track, 
which carries all the key elements 
for a great song.
Their next album, which is 
already in the works, may be an 
evolutionary change for the 
group. If Hanson continues to 
make the same steps they are mak
ing now, the group will be freed 
from the transitional stage This 
Time Around has them in, and they 
will be stuck in one of two places. 
Hanson will either be with 80s 
songwriting teen prodigy Debbie 
Gibson or with bands like the 
Rolling Stones and the Beatles 
who have become great musicians
after their teen following days. 
Hanson can write a song by all the 
ways a song is properly taught to 
be written. The question is, will 
the people accept their output?
Hanson is the anti-MTV defini
tion of a Boy Band. The dirty 
work of a Boy Band is for 
NSYNC, Backstreet Boys, and 98 
Degrees. Hanson, BBMak, and 
even the dreaded Canadian band 
The Moffatts do not follow in the 
Boy Band category. If one were 
to associate them with true Boy 
Bands than one should toss in the 
Goo Goo Dolls, Third Eye Blind 
and the rest of the pretty boys of 
pop. It is time for MTVs genera
tion to be able to recognize the dif
ference between raw talent and 
manufactured talent.
Remember the Titans is hard to forget
Epy* m2Vp2S
by Brad Cohen
* Junior Staffwriter 
n.sWhen moviegoers hear that a new Jerry 
Bruckheimer movie is coming out, every guy 
envisions taking his girlfriend to the movies for 
a fun night of explosions and guns while every 
girl questions her choice in boyfriends. 
Bombastic and ear-splitting Bruckheimer 
movies like Gone in 60 Seconds, The Rock, and 
Armageddon have been giving men all the vicar
ious thrills they need and each is bigger than 
the previous.
The newest Bruckheimer movie, Remember 
the Titans, breaks the mold and stars Denzel 
Washington in a fact-based story of the 1971 
forced integration of two Virginia high schools 
 one black and the other white  and the 
volatile situation that ensued when the school 
board voted for the football coach of the black 
school to run the beloved Titan football team. 
Football, as we are told within the first five min
utes of the film, was everything to the town of 
Alexandria, Virginia. Denzel Washington plays
Herman Boone, the black coach select
ed'over the legendary white coach, Bill 
Yoast. Naturally, the white community 
is enraged over the prospect of their 
boys playing under a black coach and 
competing with black players for posi
tions. Boone, having been thrust into 
this tenuous position, takes the team 
away for training camp, at which the 
players actually bond. All the typical 
football as life metaphors are thrown 
in and the players become a team. But 
then they return to the real world 
where nobody accepts a mixed team 
and the kids struggle to maintain a 
team despite societys disapproval.
The plot is nothing that hasnt beep seen 
before, but it is based on fact and is engaging 
nonetheless, because it is a fresh take on the 
overcoming adversity type of movie. Most 
Hollywood films sugarcoat racism and feature 
clich after clich to the point where it becomes 
laughable. As a movie coming from an action 
auteur not known for drama, one would expect 
the worst. But Titans survives because it doesSv?r rve Ect?C GO?fei *e?t
a = G0Cf *ef?C 
? = ocC&eO *ef?C 
u = ?O0tbe *ef?C 
d = oveer *er?C 
E = uO?H,eO ?H, qOcbe
Disney Enterprises, Inc./Jerry Bruckheimer,. Inc. All Rights Reserved.
- Remember the Titans is based on a true story starring Oscar Winner Denzel Washington as Herman 
Boone, who in 1971 is selected to coach a racially-integraied high school football team.
nt succumb to the cheesiness of the formulaic 
plot about tearing down barriers. One of the 
funniestjtngs I can remember from any movie 
was-^a scene near the end of that atrocious 
Tommy Lee Jones movie, Volcano.
One subplot of the movie (about a volcano 
erupting directly underneath Los Angeles) 
revolved around a racist white cop arresting a 
black man merely because he was yelling at fire
men who were putting out fires in a retail dis
trict while a poor black neighborhood in the 
area was burning down. When the cop eventu
ally lets the man go, the two work together to 
erect barriers and the sweet music blares and 
the audience is supposed to feel weepy. Luckily, 
Titans avoids these cheesy clichs and you see 
the characters genuinely change and become 
understanding and tolerant. Emotion is not 
overplayed and the movie strikes just the right 
tone to make you think rather than make you 
feel all warm inside.
Washington and especially Will Pattons 
restrained performances are the key to keeping 
the sappiness away. In such a charged atmos
phere, each man bides his time and remains 
patient and never once do you see any of the 
overly emotional outbursts about togetherness. 
By seeing each others lives and working side by 
side, the men became friends. Washington and 
Patton keep their performances in check and 
avoid the righteous speeches that bog down 
other movies.
 The flashy editing and loud music of previous 
Bruckheimer films are traded for good acting 
and a fresh script. There is just enough football 
in there to keep the macho guys occupied and 
for those looking for a deeper movie, its solid 
and engaging throughout. ABY ANDY FRANCIS
Croupier
Thursday, October 5
Rounding out the past few weeks of European movies is 
Croupier, a British film that chronicles the adventures of a nov
elist who takes a temporary job as a croupier in a casino to pay 
some bills and get over writers block, and ends up with way 
more than he bargained for. British movies are generally pretty 
cool, unless you watch them with one of those people who sim
ply cannot get over the differences in language. You know, 
someone who points out that football really means soccer, 
and that flat means apartment every single time.
I find casino movies fascinating, primarily because of the var
ious women that hang around the tables. Their attractiveness 
seems to be directly related to the amount of money being 
wagered at their table, as if someone at the door assesses their 
... .credentials, and assigns them a table on the spot. Theres 
something to impress potential employers with: Well, Ms. 
McBosoms, it says on,your resume you didnt quite make it 
through high school, but your associates at the $10,000 mini
mum bet table say you do fantastic work.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Road Trip
Friday, October 6
MTVs Tom Green narrates this tale of a group of four jokers 
who embark on a jaunt from New York to Texas to recover a sex 
tape that Ithaca freshman Josh (Breckin Meyer) accidentally 
sent to his high school sweetheart. Road Trip borrows a lot from 
classic college comedies like Revenge of' the Nerds and Animal 
House, rolling crazy exploits, gross-out humor, and of course 
nudity into one big entertaining package.
Seeing Tom Greens name in print may remind some readers 
of the unfortunate illness he suffered early this summer, and 
perhaps some of the increasingly less funny jokes made about it 
for what seemed like decades. Have you ever taken a minute to 
realize what people make fun of famous people for? Like 
Survivor winner Richard Hatch, the so-called fat, naked guy. 
Youre going to look like that some day, like it or not. Give the 
man a break. Its even more annoying when people make really 
ironic criticisms, like when people who regularly misspell their 
names rip Dan Quayle, eternally dateless people knock Tori 
Spelling, and anyone besides William Shakespeare cuts on this 
column. Come to think of it, Shakespeares pretty much a hack 
himself, huh?
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Titan A.E.
Saturday, October 7
Not the typical stuff of Saturday morning cartoons, Titan A.E. 
is the story of a young hero named Cale who must lead the peo
ple of futuristic earth to a spaceship called the Titan, in order to 
escape from hostile invading aliens called the Drej. Lending 
voice-overs to the film are stars like Matt Damon (Cale), Bill 
Pullman, Drew Barrymore, and Janeane Garofalo. Also behind 
the mic are a trio of amazingly unfunny people by the names of 
John Leguizamo, Jim Breuer, and Nathan Lane. Rumor has it 
that Gallagher, Carrot Top, and Bruce Vilanch have all signed on 
for the sequel.
Im glad that animated movies dont seem to be going the way 
other entertainment media seem to be heading  placing more 
emphasis on technical achievement and less on fun. Take an 
older cartoon like Beavis and Butt-head, which looks like Mike 
Judge drew it blindfolded using only his left foot, and its still 
way funnier most ofwhats on TV. Still, though, movies likeAntz 
and Toy Story have managed to maintain the difficult balance 
between kid-friendly amusement and grown-up wit, so I say 
keep up the good work.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
UHF
Sunday, October 8
Drinking from the fire hose. Feeding the dog from the punch
bowl. Michael Richards. Wheel of Fish. If you dont know what 
Im talking about, its very important that you go and see UHF 
this Sunday. Weird Al Yankovics 1989 gem, robbed at the 
Oscars, (by Driving Miss Daisy  how lame can the Academy 
possibly get?) tells the story of a daydreaming loser (Yankovic, 
naturally) who inherits a run-down TV station from his uncle, 
who won it in a game of poker. While the rest of the plot is loose
ly arranged around Als battle with the local network giant, the 
real fun is in the inane shows like Conan the Librarian that he 
concocts for the fledgling station. Its stupid humor, no doubt, 
but sometimes thats the best kind.
Speaking of bad television, I think its time for the people of 
America to say enough to reality television, and start watching 
more quality fare like bass fishing and Iron Chef. Unfortunately, 
getting garbage like Big Brother and The Real World bumped off 
the air is only a start. For as long as the Pittsburgh Steelers con
tinue to poison the airwaves each Sunday, television is safe for 
no man. Go Browns.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium

---------------------------------------------------

Let us show you how,
ar 0'O ptY0 oeiic0t 
!?%%eOi0vC?s !?CC ?AIh 
Sefteif?l, NHr0MeO 4rv 5ZhI 3 8 
!0r v0Oi f0e'&Oei WO0&cfef
Enter your m2oP*2 to win a?tl1veOe ct rve 10OCf

---------------------------------------------------

fl
more powerful than fuel
volavo 0 mas frm,vEr, Rh
By choice, we are an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to a culturally diverse workforce.
Ni Kal 
Systems Quality Engineer, 
Powertrain Electronic Applications
She tackled a cross-functional assignment in Brand Management to launch the new 2000 Taurus, 
Her ideas have resolved assembly issues at one of our major manufacturing facilities. And currently, 
shes leading a team of engineers focused on improving Powertrain Control Modules.
An impressive career for anyone. Whats more impressive is the fact that Ni Kal accomplished all 
of this and more in just two years.
Thats what the Ford College Graduate Program is all about. It gives recent graduates the oppor
tunity to make important contributions - right from the start. Even better, it will give you the chance to 
create your own unique world within Ford. What do you want to accomplish in your career? Where do 
you want your talent to take you? The Ford College Graduate Program will give you the experience 
you need to find the answers.
For more information on exciting career opportunities at Ford Motor Company, visit us at:
Information Session
October 11,2000 
University Center 
Peter Wright McKenna Room 
7:15pm - 9pm
Please join us for appetizers and an informal chat. We will be recruiting for the following functions:
 Product Development
 Global Business Development
 Marketing Sales & Service
 Finance
 Manufacturing
 Process Leadership
Visit our website at mycareer.ford.com

---------------------------------------------------

College students, community invited to Yom Kippur Services at Jewish University Center
oeO&cHe ye?feO 1cCC Me 
m?MMc a?O0t *?H,CeO, 
aii0Hc?re qO0Yeii0O 0Y wve0C0sl 
?r d'q'eite Ptc&eOicrl
?Free for 
Students 
with valid 
College ID
Community 
members 
$25 per person 
per service, 
and need 
reservations.
621-8875 
or email 
hillel@sgi.net
Sunday, October 8 
Kol Nidrei at 6:30 p.m.,
University of Pittsburgh, Bellefleld Hall
Monday, October 9
Morning Services begin at 9 a.m., Willian Pitt Union 
Afternoon Services, 5 p.m., William Pitt Union 
Break-the-fast, 8 p.m.-ish, William Pitt Union, $8.
Students interested in joining a local family for the Jewish holidays can contact the JUC.
The JUC is a partner agency of the United Jewish Federation of Greater Pittsburgh 
and a beneficiary of Hiliet: The Foundation for Jewish Campus Life.
GSMGCambridge Strategic 
Management Group
CSMG IS A RAPIDLY GROWING INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY AND 
ECONOMIC ADVISORY FIRM WHOSE CLIENT'S INCLUDE START-UPS ANC! 
AGGRESSIVE, ESTABLISHED ENTERPRISES IN THE COMMUNICATIONS, 
INTERNET, HIGH-TECHNOLOGY, AND VENTURE CAPITAL INDUSTRIES.
CSMG CORDIALLY INVITES YOU TO ATTEND OUR
N,TEt7limE, @uaamE, l,B Huvu.imE,' FC; A cNHr0MeO 5rv, gIII
EDITORA L EIDORA
j412-60- -PPi2 za&0Gi1our
www.csmgusa.com
STUDENT 
SENATE
Is there some kind of improvement that \ou would like to see oi campus or in your organization?
Did you know that Senate currently has set
 $50,000surplus for your ideas? Why not make a proposal? E-mail ss2p@andrew.cmu.edu before October 31st for more information.
W'

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 2, 2000Baa
Craig Street, though one block away, offers a world of food
m2owaPmanw m2Vp2S
Not far away from here, youll find an area 
with plenty of restaurants, bookstores, and 
other quaint shops. When youre looking for 
a feast, you cant possibly go wrong on Craig 
Street. Whether youre in the mood for 
American, Asian, Indian, Middle Eastern, or 
fast food, you can find it all right there, a 
mere 5-minute walk from campus. This 
week, the critics give you the lowdown on the 
chow down on Craig Street.
aCc ??M?
Those who were on campus last year will 
remember a much different UC dining 
experience last semester. The only rem
nants of the middle-eastern food that was 
the staple of many students diets is an 
empty counter with the words Ali Baba 
above, inviting students in for gyros, grape 
leaves, and chicken pitas. Alas, Ali Baba 
could not find the right password to success 
at CMU, and students must now look else
where for middle-eastern food.
Since so many students are familiar with 
the Ali Baba tradition, a natural place to 
start their dining experience is the original 
restaurant, located on Craig Street. A cou
ple of friends and I approached the sign 
with confidence. Ali Baba, the sign read, a 
familiar face among a crowd of unknowns.
The inside was quaint. Middle-eastern 
music played in the background, decora
tions adorned the walls, and the crowd cre
ated a quiet din that was comforting. It was 
nice to know that we were not the only ones 
venturing forth that evening.
Ordering from the Ali Baba menu is easy. 
For dinner, you can go with the normal 
entrees, which include such items as lamb 
kebabs, scoured chicken, or a vegetarian 
platter. Vegans will be in paradise, as most 
of the vegetarian food is edible for them. 
Customers can also go the  la carte route, 
mixing and matching various dishes such as 
baba ganooj (roasted eggplant), hummus 
(mashed chick-pea), and stuffed grape 
leaves. All the dishes are pretty affordable. 
You can put together an  la carte meal for 
about eight dollars and the entrees range 
from eight to 12 dollars.
My friends and I ordered a large variety 
of food to get a full dining experience. I 
ordered the fetter treat, an entre consist
ing of cubes of lamb and mushrooms 
smothered in mushroom sauce laid over a 
bed of white rice. It also came with a salad, 
covered in feta cheese. I brought along a 
vegetarian,'and he ordered the vegetarian 
platter which was baba ganooj, hummus, 
and rice with pignolia nuts (pignolia nuts, 
little pine nuts, can be found on a good 
number of the menu items). My third 
friend, a Saudi Arabian resident and a selfproclaimed expert on middle-eastern food, 
ordered a variety of  la carte platters such 
as falafel * (ground, seasoned, deep-fried 
chick peas), arid lamb-stuffed grape leaves! 
The meals also came with pita bread.
After we ordered, the food arrived in a 
matter of minutes. The service at Ah Baba is 
fast and convenient. However, I wish I had 
the same praise for the food. My salad and 
fetter treat suited me fine. The lamb was 
succulent but unfortunately a little bland. 
The hummus had too much lemon, and as a 
result was almost inedible. The grape 
leaves, on the other hand, could use a little 
more lemon and more lamb stuffed into 
them as well. The falafel was a bit dry and 
overcooked. The only real bright side to the 
main meal was the baba ganooj, which in 
fact, tasted pretty good.
For dessert, I ordered kanofi, a baklavalike dessert with shredded wheat on top. 
The baklava part of the kanofi was deli
cious, but the shredded wheat part added 
nothing to its taste, making me wish I had 
just ordered baklava.
At the end of the day, I would rate Ali 
Babas food as mediocre. Those who 
remember the UC version of the restaurant 
will remember the same quality of food. I 
was surprised and a little disappointed, 
since Ali Baba has been rated Pittsburghs 
best middle-eastern restaurant in years 
past. I suppose that might be the result, 
however, of the low number of middle-eastern restaurants in the city. It is too bad that 
students who go there will not experience 
the art of middle-eastern food at its highest 
level.
 ISH HARSHAWAT
Ali Baba
TTus Noodles/ 
Yum Wok
Star of IndiaSubwayUnion Grill
404 S. Craig St.400 S. Craig St.412 S. Craig St.415 S. Craig St.413 S. Craig St.
all photos by Shaina McGrath/Assistant Photo Editor
CuisineMiddle EasternPan-AsianIndianSubmarine SandwichesAmerican
TasteCBA-B+BAtmosphereBAB+BB
ServiceBBB-BBValueBBB-A-BPrice Range$8-12$5-8$8-14$4-6$6-12
OverallC+BBB+By' y'i n00fCeiD 
F'% S0,
Always a classic for Carnegie Mellon and 
Pitt students, Lu Lus Noodles  also 
known as Yum Wok  still has its charm. 
The restaurants off-kilter personality 
begins with the two adjacent doors lead
ing into the place and also is found in the 
now legendary photographs of people 
holding noodles in situations where noo
dles never otherwise belong.
Lu Lus/Yum Wok is easy to get to, locat
ed on the corner of Craig and Filmore 
Streets in Oakland. Its a quick walk from 
west campus and is affordable enough for 
an afternoon meal between classes.
Think globally. Act locally. Eat noodles 
is the catch phrase on the T-shirts many 
waitresses wear. The restaurant can also 
be recognized by its advertisement slogan 
Use your noodle. Eat at Lu Lus.
The menu is easier to understand than 
most Asian menus, divided into small 
eats, big eats, and noodle bowls and 
plates. Heart-smart items are indicated 
with a heart; entres and appetizers are 
clearly marked, and its all reasonably easy 
to scan. Those of us who struggle even 
with English pronunciation can rejoice in 
the order-by-number system.
Luncheon specials are offered daily from 
11 am - 2 pm for $3.95 and include an 
appetizer and entre.
During my visit, service was fast and 
friendly. Because I got take-out, they 
remembered to include utencils, soy 
sauce, and, of course, a fortune cookie. 
The food was packaged in plastic thats 
sturdy enough to reuse and thick enough 
to keep whats inside warm.
Whats inside is also tasty, especially 
given the price. For two friends and I, I 
ordered pad Thai ($5.50), barbecue pork 
($3.95), and sauted chicken ($4.50): an 
ideal combination for sharing. We agreed 
that the pork was on the dry side and that 
the soy sauce wasnt distributed well 
enough through the noodles. The sauce in 
the chicken didnt have much flavor, but 
the chicken itself was good. The pad Thai 
was the "clear winner, however, with the 
right combination of stickiness and tex
ture.
Vegetarians wont have much trouble 
eating here  they will find a number of 
vegetarian and vegan dishes, and the 
cooks dont mind leaving out carnivorous 
ingredients upon request. Just make sure 
you dont get egg noodles.
 BLAKE ENGEL
or?O 0Y ptfc? o'M1?lPtc0t GOcCC
Coming up in the 
October 16 Issue:
Squirrel Hill 
Restaurant Reviews
Before you came to CMU, you probably 
had never tried curry or heard of nan. Over 
their four years here though, many stu
dents have become styrofoam gourmets 
at lunchtime and spend their time arguing 
whether Taste of India or Srees is the best 
Indian restaurant on campus. We reviewed 
another local Indian restaurant to add 
some new material for the midday debates.
We visited Star of India, located on Craig 
Street across from Subway. It blends in to 
the strip mall-style block in which it sits. 
The bland exterior belies little of the cozy 
family restaurant which lies within. It is 
somewhat nicer than an average college 
restaurant without being overly formal.
Star offers two different dining options. 
During the day, they primarily serve a buffet-style lunch. Dinner is a more traditional 
sit-down affair. We ate there during dinner 
to try and get a feel for the restaurant dur
ing its primary hours. We started with 
appetizers with an order of samosas, spiced 
potatoes with peas in a fried shell. They 
were tasty but far too close to Kentucky 
Fried Stove Top stuffing.
We ordered , the chicken shahi korma as 
one of the main entres. It was a dish of 
chicken served in a spicy cream sauce with 
rice. While the portions of rice border on 
stingy, the quality of the food was excel
lent. The sauce was rich but not heavy.
Probably the best part of-the meal was 
the Pouri bread. Described accurately in 
the menu as soft and pillowy, it was deli
cious.
If youre new to Indian food and you 
want to sample the different dishes that the 
cuisine has to offer, look no further than 
the thali dinner specials. The non-vegetarian thali features your choice of lamb or 
chicken curry, Tandoori chicken (the tasty 
Indian version of barbecued chicken), nan 
(the soft bread served at the Taste of India 
on campus), papadam (Indian answer to 
tortilla chips), and raita (spiced yogurt 
with tomato and cucumber). The Star of 
India's raita was a wonderful inclusion to 
the dinner since most Indian restaurants 
simply serve plain yogurt. This yogurt is 
necessary in negating the spiciness of the 
food. Do not be deceived, however. The 
wait .staff lets you choose a spiciness 
value between 1 (geriatric) to 10 (atom
ic) . So you can have it as hot or as wimpy  
I mean, cool  as you wish.
While the food was delicious, the service 
was mediocre. They were attentive but not 
overly friendly. The prices were okay but a 
little high for the typical college budget.
Overall, Star of India was slightly better 
than average. The atmosphere felt authen
tic without being overpowering. The 
entres were excellent. However, the price, 
service and overall experience was accept
able but not great. If you find yourself 
stuck, trying to find a restaurant on a night 
to accommodate a larger group, give this 
restaurant a try. You may just find it to be 
the latest and greatest Indian restaurant.
 THOMAS CAPASSO AND GREG NOFI
Contrary to popular belief, the city of 
Pittsburgh does have a Subway, and best of 
all you dont need a metro card to use it. 
However, the Subway sandwich shop on 
Craig Street boasts long lines, mobs of peo
ple, and slow service  just like the famous 
underground mass transit system of New 
York where the restaurant derived its name.
The story begins in Bridgeport, 
Connecticut during the summer of 1965 
where an ambitious 17-year-old high school 
graduate, Fred DeLuca, was working at the 
local hardware store. He was determined to 
make more money and got an idea from a 
neighbor to open a submarine sandwich 
shop. With a $1,000 loan Fred was able to 
open Petes Super Submarines on August 
28,1965. The first year was a challenge and 
a learning experience for the young entre
preneur. Upon opening his second location 
a year later, DeLuca realized that marketing 
and visibility were going to be key factors in 
the success of the business. It was the third 
store that hit it big. Number three sported 
the flashy yellow logo that proudly displays 
the name Subway. Since then there have 
been 14,601 Subways in 75 different coun
tries.
The Subway on Craig Street is a decent 
sandwich shop that serves a variety of deli 
sandwiches with an array of condiments, 
cheeses, and vegetables. The meat that 
Subway uses is processed, packaged, and 
refrigerated which means it is packed with 
preservatives and is not all that fresh. 
However, a turkey sandwich from Subway 
is a much healthier alternative to a burger 
or anything fried. After all, Im sure you 
have seen Subways advertising campaign 
that features Jared, who lost about two 
hundred pounds on the Subway Diet 
which is basically nothing more than eating 
Subway turkey sandwiches for lunch and 
dinner (Jenny Craig look out!). All in all the 
quality of the food in Subway is much 
greater (not to mention healthier) than 
food in most other fast food establishments.
However, dont expect to get your food 
right away at the Craig Street Subway. I 
stood in line for about ten minutes and 
waited another five while my sandwich was 
being made. By the time I filled my bever
age cup, grabbed a pack of potato chips, 
and paid, twenty minutes had gone by and I 
still had to eat my sandwich, which would 
take about fifteen minutes. You should con
sider that my visit was at about 1:30 when 
everyone is out getting lunch. A visit on off 
peak hours is representative of having the 
fast food title, usually taking only about six 
minutes to get in and out. My favorite thing 
about the Subway is that they accept 
Carnegie Mellons Dine Xpress so when you 
get sick of eating campus food you can take 
the five-minute walk down to Craig Street.
I give Subway a ranking of a B+ because 
it is a decent fast food restaurant that serves 
healthy food at a somewhat reasonable 
price (usually $3-$6 per sub depending on 
size and type of meat).
 RYAN FRIEDMAN
The Union Grill probably has the most 
mixed reputation of any restaurant in 
Pittsburgh,on our campus. It seems to be 
the default restaurant for visitors to our 
campus, and its often recommended to vis
iting parents, but when asked about it, 
many CMU students will be quick to tell you 
stories of terrible service, boring menus, 
and cold food. So I was pleased to be given 
an opportunity to review it this weekend 
and see for myself.
To my pleasure, I found that both the ser
vice and the food were quite palatable, if 
not very exciting. My Portabella Voodoo 
Sandwich  the vegetarian version of our 
most popular sandwich  was a worthy 
example of the soft of vegetarian sandwich 
you would expect from an upscale 
American eatery such as the Union Grill. 
The ingredients were all clearly fresh, not 
pre-prepared or taken out of a box. 
However, the voodoo sauce, billed as the 
sandwichs main attraction, turned out to 
be sort of disappointing  it wasnt espe
cially spicy, despite the names Cajun con
notations, and there wasnt enough of it to 
make the sandwich anything more interest
ing than any other sandwich featuring 
roasted mushrooms and cheese. The side of 
garlic mashed potatoes had just the right 
amount of garlic, spicy without being over
whelming, but was marred by the presence 
of large and abundant lumps of unmashed 
potato. My companion had the salmon and 
bayou shrimp over fettuccine in chipotle 
cream sauce. Despite his initial fears that 
the sauce would be too spicy for his palate, 
he reported that it was in fact just the right 
amount of heat  deliciously spicy.
Dessert, however, was the real star of our 
meal, and probably the source of the Union 
Grills good reputation, the warm slice of 
deep:dish apple pie that we split was deli
cious in every way that apple pie can be 
delicious, from the obviously homemade 
crust sprinkled in cinnamon and sugar to 
the wonderfully tart, not over-sweetened 
apples in the filling. The pie even came with 
ice cream; we chose vanilla over cinnamon, 
and were rewarded with a generous scoop 
of real vanilla ice cream, speckled with 
vanilla seeds.
The service, like the main course, turned 
out to be acceptable but not very exciting. 
Our waitress certainly did an adequate job, 
but her attention was divided between us 
and many other tables, most of which were 
large parties, and she didnt have the time 
to chat. I suspect, in fact, that the Union 
Grills reputation for bad service is rooted in 
exactly this: the waitstaff is overworked.
All in all, I would say that the Union Grill, 
while over-rated, deserves a try. If 
American fare is your thing, stop by on a 
weeknight when the crowd has thinned a 
little, or come late for drinks and dessert  
but dont expect anything unusual. Oh, and 
dont have the fettuccine with chipotle 
cream sauce  my companion reports that 
the noodles are not authentically Chinese.
 LORELEI LAIRD
2f'H?rc0t?C, etreOr?ct%etr e&etri ?Oe ?M0'tf ct rve i'OO0'tfcts ?Oe?
PITTSBURGH, from page B14 
God, and Ragtime.
 Not owning a television is a sad 
excuse for missing out on the 
Presidential debates. This 
Tuesday, you can watch all the live 
action in McConomy Auditorium 
starting at 9 pm. Ralph Nader will 
not make his presence in 
McConomy again as he is still trying 
to get into the debates. It looks like 
his best chance of getting into the 
debates is by buying a ticket.
 Who is the greatest rock bassist 
of all time? The Whos John 
Entwhistle? Maybe. Pink Floyds 
Roger Waters? Perhaps. But one of 
the best currently performing
bassists is coming to the 31st Street 
Pub in the Strip District on 
Wednesday. Ever since his days 
with the Minutemen, Mike Watt 
has influenced an entire generation 
of alternative rockers. He has 
worked with the likes of The Red 
Hot Chili Peppers Flea, Nirvanas 
Dave Grohl, Beastie Boys Ad-Rock 
and Mike D, Henry Rollins, and 
Pearl Jams Eddie Vedder just to 
name a few.
 In addition to Doctorow, anoth
er very intelligent man is coming to 
Pittsburgh: Alice Cooper.
Without his role in Wayne's World, 
most Americans would not have 
known that Milwaukee is an
Algonquin term meaning the good 
land and that it has had its fair 
share of visitors dating back to 16th 
century French missionaries and 
explorers. You can learn about all 
this as well as fun facts about 
Pittsburgh on Wednesday at 7:30 
pm at the A.J. Palumbo Center.
 Albert Einstein: What is 
Birdbath?
Mahatma Gandhi: A play reading 
with audience participation, writ
ten by Coni Ciongoli-Koepfinger 
and directed by Denny Martin. 
Einstein: Whos in it?
Tennessee Williams: Some of the 
greatest minds that the world has 
even known. Theyre contemplating
a dramatic experiment in peace. 
Einstein: Like who? I bet John 
Lennon would be in something like 
thiis.
John Lennon: You may say Im a 
dreamer, but Im not the only one. 
Were all in it. You, Gandhi, me. 
Everybody. Even that hick 
Tennessee is in it. This isnt rocket 
science, Einstein.
Einstein: Great! Ill see you all 
there in the Adamson Wing at 4:30 
on Thursday then.
 Boo! Did I scare you? Unless 
you are my mom, chances are that 
you are not easily scared and the 
first sentence of this paragraph did 
not terrorize you in the least.
However, if you want a challenge in 
maintaining your composure, go to 
the Fright Fest which is taking 
place until Halloween at the IC 
Light Amphitheater in Station 
Square. It features over 100 horrify
ing scenes in three walk-through 
haunted attractions, including the 
waking-up-twenty-minutes-intoyour-Calculus-exam-because-youset-your-alarm-for-9-pm-instead-of9-am scene.
 Shake, shake, shake. Shake 
your boot-tie. You can do all this 
and more at Fridays Cultural 
Shake-Up. The event takes place 
from 3 to 6 pm around the 
University Center and Merson
Courtyard. All cultural campus 
organizations will be there and so 
should you.
 Finally, theres a organization in 
Pittsburgh called the Moviegoers 
Club. Every Sunday they go to 
watch a movie together at Loews 
Theater at the Waterfront and then 
gather together afterward to listen 
to a relevant lecture on the subject. 
This Sunday, the film is Meet the 
Parents. Following the 4:15 movie, 
a celebrity impersonator will be on 
hand to imitate Robert De Niro. 
Hell be doing all the classics, such 
as You talkin to me? You talkin to - 
me?, and Youre good doc! You 
are good!

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 2, 2000PmProfescivivi
Brand Spanking New!
L00,cts Y0O MO?tf te1 H0%cHi rvet l0'&e Y0'tf rve 
WC?Hewvci 1ee, 1e feM'r r10 MO?tf te1 H0%cHi, 
me?C *et ?tf wv'sM0r 5III?e i'Oe r0 HveH, 0'r !?f 
d?%?sef wve 0Y yC0lfi ct wve !?OfeO wvel aOe wve 
E?OfeO wvel uve1- Sef C0&e r0 ,t01 1v?r l0' rvct, 0Y 
rveie te1 H0%cHi i0 ietf 'i ? Ccte ?r 
r?Or?t:?tfOe1-H%'-ef'-
Dilbert
by Scott Adams
DOGBERT CONSULTS
HERE'S MY REPORT 
FULL OF OBVIOUS 
GENERALITIES./
WHAT ARE 
YOU 
RECOM
MENDING?
V
I RECOMMEND 
TELLING 
EVERYONE IT 
WAS FREE.
I'M SURE YOUR BOSS \ 
WILL INCREASE THE 
BUDGET IF YOU SHOW 
HIM MY PLAN. ,
I TUST ASKED HIM 
FOR SOMETHING 
ELSE. I CAN'T 
KEEP ASKING HIM 
FOR RESOURCES!
SO. . .YOU THINK 
THAT DOING YOUR 
JOB IS A SIGN OF 
^WEAKNESS? j----------
V
DOGBERT CONSULTS
YOU CAN REVIVE THE 
ENTREPRENEURIAL 
SPIRIT HERE BY 
REMINDING PEOPLE 
OF THE EARLY YEARS. 
'3333333
YOUR FOUNDERS 
WERE TWO BUMS 
WHO BEGAN IN A 
CARDBOARD BOX.
TED, THERE'S A 
HUGE DEMAND 
FOR EMPLOYEES 
, LIKE YOU.
BUT NOT YOU 
SPECIFICALLY.
. . .WHICH IS 
FUNNY IF YOU 
THINK ABOUT IT.
HEY, IF YOU CAN'T 
LAUGH AT YOURSELF, 
WHO CAN YOU 
LAUGH AT?
Se''
THE COMPANY 
WILL SAVE FORTY 
MILLION DOLLARS 
BUT YOU'LL BE 
TEN THOUSAND
iOVER BUDGET.
AND BEFORE YOU 
ASK , NO IT WONT 
WORK THE OTHER 
WAY AROUND. J---------'V WHOSE SIDE 
ARE YOU ON?
C0H0
The Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/ TO* ^
V /rr% /
mho <!ic.(szi.d.r gw
Tha conutruction of tho derivative machino wan a 3911PR9O It bohavod accordine to spocification, as far a I could tali, but all I hnd to toot it on Moro tono constanti!
vaniuhod, having no potontial for growth. Out where did thoy go? I noodod an answer.
$I wish to grow at a rato proportional to my currant standing, such that tho moro I chango.
Z found mysalf in a room with a simple oporator who askod only throo quostions:
MY STOCK OPTIONS 
ARE WORTH A 
FORTUNE NOW, YOU 
MISERABLE BAG 
OF CRUD!
TRY TELLING HIM 
THAT BAGS OF CRUD 
ARE HIGHLY VALUED 
IN SOME SOCIETIES.
The Harder They Are The Farder They Chew
Had Damaged The Of Lloyd's
by: James Kenney (email: jpkenney@andrew.cmu.edu)
COOL ACTION!
!?f f?%?sef rve 0Y yC0lf'iDecode this message for a free lunch.
!?f f?%?sef rve 0Y yC0lf'iLive by these words for true happiness.
!?f f?%?sef rve 0Y yC0lf'iBest repeated daily and when drunk.
3 moro X stay tho

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 2, 2000
tHUt-urC.
by lamo IVanw|WOULD YoV Live iotf
F#i>lA/ PWE4 I WITH THAT? J
-- rvwjj^ Wow \>ou.-V mol\ 
ojrvd. yo' f'vivc 5 
roU wl+h iwe?^>
^rxovu <UnV-'
\iVer+o,9l>+ I
\o0uV VH S.n ** 1j, \oCUK te <v"f cri V%4, 
VK^KitTj------------------->
cW VO... vi-SSup 9ir,J-u o u Vcrxow Vow. loo Km ll 
oood ri\K+_^-------<1
^S,faA3\u I '
foV\ ^VoU. 
^{TTTltA c^er frh
lVy_ 0Sdi ? oeH V
ffllf V VjaVivj . iflidi
-.,7+uT(i v-a*-s vtn(
oC.tu\+V\ C*. \ Acta. M
wK ?" a-ten-Koa... y
C?i$JA#U
UWj
V^eS^ow wKm moh atr\n*.p\A.^ v\e Ufc. clo+-71 kccDtc 
vsu% only *y baby's momwia orv +Vie pf)ofve 
   diwv\r\ _______ -
rOu/, i? 
J/3RSW
lew*/1
by Michael Fry & T. Lewis
fifre SUBURS~ OLYMPICS...PAY 
Une SUBURBAN 
OLYMCS...PAY ?BULLS-EYE.M/TU4IUT ' HE REALLY NICE VAULT. STUCK TH
^ . -M LANDING. .1 SPLATTERV..T1MILQREPf
ser You
THE JAWG 
Of LIFEi!/
FILLING THE BALLOONS WITH ) 
SUPER GLUE REALLY HELPS 
GET AN ACCURATE SCORE BY 
KEEPING THE TARGET STILL. ,
 PENASTICS... 1
READY. 
r BCAN
H^BLmt^ 
OLYMPICS...PAY 10
THERE'S THE 
GAINER... 
THE TWIST... 
THE FLIPS... 
A WINK..A 
NOt>...W>...
...ANO.
me SUBURBAN
OLYMPICS... PA >^7j
[the NaNtur e.Tah
8N 
A HALF 
INCHES.GERONIMO#A NEH 
RECORD/HOWDY-PO.
AND NO W.. A 
FULL GAINER, A 
&ACK TWIST, 5 
FLIPS, A WINK,
A NOD, AND A 
HOWDY-00/
30-METER
SYCAMORE
DIVING...
FOINS!
m SUBURB.AN
OL YMPIC.S...PAY 8
WELCOME TO THE 
M-I-PE WORLD 
Of SPORTS'
THE AGONY 
OF DEFEAT...THE HUMAN 1 
DRAMA OF 
ATHLETIC 
SPECTATION.!
THE THRILL OF 
VICTORY... .LETS JUST 
SAY ITS NOT 
IN KEEPING WITH 
THE SUBURBAN 
OLYMPIC 
SPIRIT.
WHAT'S HE 
SAYING?MORE >
ncrueoslBAR/I 6N0HEPUfZr\ 
/Yft&RK/MMM...
GOOD"ONYUM.
BADMatBrun
by Jim Meddick
WtW?tjJ02E\I l)S0> TO,TO OOP AT \ KICK *S# K BfSKETMLOR HOT 106 EfiONG SoMETHINS? I CONTESTS. ,
TUtS IS REALLY SEtnN TO (AEi IU TOO WTO FLY/INHEN I YlAS A Y0UNS PARROT I USB?
N UGSFW MCPMFHK BPYJgr UoH
V OWER PARROTS... (==
HEY, POUT FEEL so BW. WE ALL REACH A POINT IK OUR LIMES WHEN WE REALIZE WE CAN'T DO SCHEMING AS WELL AS WHEW 
-iWEWEREVOWG-r--^
spi m^ffiSEipiCAN'T SW THINKING ftBOUT A'BlSfAAC.," CHOCOLATE SHAKE AUP , SUPER-SIZED ARCS? VT Of FRIES... V
wtWwsHAVE HE ON-/ BECAUSE BIPPfEEP.', WPE WPP FE6P-' V A BIPP. HIS?/PAY-^ .BiroF6B>.'X*PSSs
SSkU)CX&crSYYcLOOKFSfTO \ YOU W?P0X WKINS HWB THUNPEH ABOUT? 
VTHI6HS? fY-^s
OK.Y'KHOW WHAT TO  fROBLEfA IS?.. HIEPPCBLEW IS I NEEP A RUHHINSS1ARC.
w3 lgpuu, TkgSUNMlNSTOCiTC MESP START?.'J THE PECK OF S,,_V W MRCRAPT l V CARRIER '
IF (1NYON6 WAMK N\E,X OH,ttlftrt.. PPS I'll BE IN m O6 WERE. CLUBBEP PAINTING A BIS PEP / ItSTO EYTINCTICM NOSE ON NvY BEAK / B PEOPLE WITM AW PUTTING ON <^1 STICKS...j-gENORMOUS SHOES. ) -V------'r~
NP N .piE,C Pr4Y ' 
WEISHT, ITOMfnW) 10K <ap IW AI THINK 8@eu/Lwn6SAo IF/ I YCUPWON if CANT VffiSHT.YOU I FLY?/ CAN'T FLY;/VHA!
NOW IHM YCUXhEYYOd'PE Ho P0W IT UR \ ARNOLV 
I WA WOPPIEV 5CHWARW GE.TTIW& ZENEG6ER ft BIT FLABBYvOWSELF!
, A JOKE--A 0H,C0(AE0N.r THERE K CLOWN! ARE PLEKTY OF 
ft BIRD VlttO , RESPECTABLE SIWS CMT Tr4U y Jw vl,i P12k
NAME TMERE'S WEPENSUIN...ANP ONE-/U...m OSTRICH,.ANP WE CHICKEN...WE WOACTUALLY, YOU WERE WINS PRETTY WELL UNTIL YOU GOT INTO THAT HOLDING PATTERN OVER THE ,@ a,lv9
^-/Sasr-irr LEIS!R/ \ VSs~b /ITOHCEKlOPE. i, I THIS TIME HIPEr\ I5 W \"WECHEX ,V MK." A 
*,rw
SURE HE CAN FLY, 
BUT HAN IS HE PU(A?.ARE YOU \ INE6P TD PRW6 XW SURE YOU NOT TO FAT TO RY-ffS WANT ALL ftERODY(JAl(lS. I 10 PO / JUST NEED A LITTLE THIS? J NUP3E TO REACH TA.- 
^i-Aoff VELOCITY,THATS All.
STUPID \ mHEAH.FlY BWEOAYUROUMP.mSOOO FLYBOY"! IWRESSW. , SHOW/y^OFF.

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
2, October 2000THE TARTANPaeBush, Einstein, Gandhi, Gore, Lennon all come to CMU
dN qpwwo?PmG!R
by Greg Nofi
Entertainment Editor
Usually baseball and the World Series are syn
onymous with October. Its synonymous every
where except in Pittsburgh, that is. In fact, the lack 
of Pirates games isnt the only thing lacking this 
month. There really isnt a heck of lot going on this 
week. Oddly enough, CMU has stepped up its share 
and we now constitute a large percentage of cool 
events in the area. Here is the list of 10 things to do 
this week, both on campus and around the city. For 
more information, see the details on the Calendar 
page.
 Ever wonder why Michael J. Fox always 
refused to fight Biffin the Back to the Future series? 
It wasnt because McFly was chicken, it was 
because he was practicing non-violence. And there 
was no better teacher of non-violence than 
Mahatma Gandhi. Today at 4:30 pm in the Baker 
Hall there will be a panel presentation titled, 
Practicing nonviolence in a violent 
world. In addition to a discussion on the ways in 
which non-violence is being used to address con
flict in the modern world, Fox himself will be on 
hand to demonstrate how to make a skateboard 
out of just about anything. Just kidding.
 Where else can you possibly find a biographi
cal epic about a historical, celebrated peace maker 
followed by the latest Troma movie, the same inde
pendent movie company that brought you 
Cannibal! The Musical and Rowdy Girls? Right on 
campus this Monday, of course. First off, at 7 pm, 
you can see Gandhi in McConomy Auditorium. 
This film won it all in 1983: an Academy for Best 
Picture, Best Actor (Ben Kingsley), Best Director 
(Richard Attenborough), Best Cinematography, 
and so forth. And if there were an award for most 
extras ever used in a funeral scene, Gandhi would 
take the cake with 300,000.
 Following Gandhi is another warm, feel-good, 
cuddly flick for the whole family from Troma Films 
called Leftovers. If youre not familiar with that 
name, these are the guys who believe that when it 
comes to violence and sex, if youre going to do it, 
you might as well overdo it. In fact, while youre at 
it, make the violence and sex completely hokey and 
uncalled for. But have no fear. Leftovers is not from 
the same production company that we all know 
and love. It comes from a subsidiary branch called 
50th Street Films, which shows more of a main
stream product. So go and enjoy the movie. After 
all, its about the ups and downs of living with 
roommates. You can relate to that, right?
 If youre a book person and motion pictures 
just arent your thing, be sure to skip the flicks and 
head over to the Carnegie Music Hall tonight at 
7:30 pm to see American author E. L. Doctorow 
speak. Doctorow is best known as a true original in 
his historical novels, such as Billy Bathgate, City of
See PITTSBURGH, page Bll
Love and hate,back rent and parties, student loans and coffee.
's ever had roommates knows there's always...
yCE
NV^mo
,U5TB UCFJUB mUICHUl mi rniin  IfOUi TU tlUU 'ItfTVlr 
liuom RrEI sut Fin USCI OINK TODD SIIKIOS CYHP fEEMN CKtSIBU KiPRiS 
HIMDiifc'OU JiSOK COSS iClKOOJt .-'CORT CRlSilLIStN TRSYIS DHIH6 EfV 8UHITW 
"rrftKitKY HKtf SSMVC MEff & UOKl IUW "-HTIC 2 mWfC-0 SOUHO SKHIOII fHIUIPS
 Troma Films
Leftovers is a film that spans one eventful week In the 
lives of four.friends sharing a house in Los Angeles.
monday, 10/2__ tuesday, 10/3__ thursday, 10/5
French Table/Discussion Group.
11:30 am in Schoenwald Lounge, new Baker 
Hall Wing.
All About Applying to Graduate 
School. 4:30 pm in Rangos Hall 2 and 3, 
University Center. Presented by the Career 
Center.
Practicing Nonviolence in a Violent 
World. 4:30 pm in the Adamson Wing, 
Baker Hall. Presented by University Lectures.
Gandhi. 7 pm in McConomy Auditorium, 
University Center. Admission: free to CMU 
students.
E.L. Doctorow. 7:30 pm in Carnegie 
Music Hall, Oakland. An on-stage conversa
tion narrated by Nicholas Lane. Contact: 622- 
8866.
Leftovers. 10 pm in McConomy 
Auditorium. Admission: $1 for students, $3 
others. Presented by AB Films and Troma 
Films.
tuesday, 10/3
Meningitis and Flu Immunizations.
11 am to 7 pm in Rangos Hall 2 and 3, 
University Center. Cost is $75 for meningitis 
and $10 for flu. Contact: 1-877-482-2237, 
http://www.vaccess.com. Sponsored by
Student Health Services.
Site Visit Workshop. 4:30 pm in the 
McKenna and Peter Rooms, University Center. 
Presented by the Career Center.
Academic Careers for Math and 
Science Majors. 6 to 7 pm in the Peter Room, 
University Center. Presented by the Career 
Center. Contact: rstarek@andrew.cmu.edu
Televised Presidential debates. 9 to 10
pm in McConomy Auditorium, University 
Center.
Teach for America Information 
Session. 6 to 7 pm in the McKenna Room, 
University Center. Applications will be pro
vided at the information session and are avail
able in the Career Center. Contact: 268-2064.
Jurassic 5, The Beat Junkies, MC 
Supernatural, and Dilated Peoples. 8
pm at Club Laga. Admission: $14 in advance; 
$16 at the door.
Wednesday, 10/4
Prayer, Worship and Food, though 
not necessarily in that order. From 8 to 9 
am in Danforth Lounge, University Center.
Funding Opportunities for Greaduate 
School. 4:30 pm in the McKenna Room, 
University Center. Presented by the Career 
Center.
Resume Writing Workshop. 5:30 pm in 
the Career Center, Warner Hall 19. Presented 
by the Career Center.
Personal Intrapreneurship: Your 
Leadership Style  Analysis and 
Development. 6 pm in the Dowd Room, 
University Center. Presented as part of the 
Dimension Series.
Get a Handle On Your Time 
Management Style. 7:30 pm in the Dowd 
Room, University Center. Presented as part of 
the Dimension Series.
Alice Cooper. 7:30 pm at A.J. Palumbo 
Center, Downtown. Tickets: $30 - $32.50. 
Contact: 323-1919.
Mike Watt and Pair of Pliers. 31st 
Street Pub, Strip District. Contact: 391-8334.
Jets To Brazil, The Ivory Coast, and 
Mercedes. 7 pm at Club Laga, Oakland. 
Admission: $7 in advance, $9 at the door.
Legal Update. 9 am to 3 pm in the 
University Center. Practical advice about 
some of todays hottest university legal 
issues. Sponsored by Human Resources.
Birdbath - A Play Reading with 
Audience Participation. 4:30 pm in the 
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall. Presented by 
University Lectures.
"Resource Management for 
Broadband Satellite Systems: How to 
Provide Fairness with Aggi'egation? 4
to 5 pm in Scaife Hall Auditorium Room 125. 
Speaker: Catherine Rosenberg, associate pro
fessor with tenure, Purdue University. 
Presented as part of the Department of 
Electrical and Computer Engineering 
Seminar Series.
Minority Students Perspectives on 
Graduate School: A Panel Discussion.
4:30 pm in the McKenna Room, University 
Center.
Croupier. 8, 10 pm, and midnight in 
McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 
Admission is $1 with CMU ID and $3 without. 
Presented by AB Films.
7 Seconds, Reach the Sky, and Kill 
Your Idols. 1 pm at Club Laga, Oakland. 
Admission: $10.
friday, 10/6
voxpopuli
official voice of japanese hockey
pretty bird, pretty bird
WHAT'S THAT DAMN LIGHT
rcnce acbsp l? 
r0 Fc acbspP
don't ever mess with a 
black man's radio
i put band-aids on my nipples
ON THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE?
WinBiff Error!
Donnie was a good bowler... 
DICKIE THOf^ a 9od man'
serious thoughts?
tartan wannabe
1etr MeObeO, ?tf 10O,ef ?tf e.WC0fefive 10,e 'W ct rve %0Otcts ?tf veO Y?He 1?i
get your roll on
Im a ghetto superstar
authentically Chinese: no
% ' % %l, ve i s0te O0rret
M Populi is a forum pen to the entire campus community! To 
submit a vox, simply email it to tartangandmcmedu, send 
it to The Tartan, University Center, Box 17 via campus mail,<or 
drop it in the Vox Populi drop box on the slick-looking Tartan 
server. The comments in this box do not reflect the views of The 
Tartan or anybody in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, 
and if anything sounds remotely real or interesting, then you're 
reading y/ay too much into it
TELfair 2000. 12pm in Rangos Hall, 
University Center. The keynote takes place at
11 am at McConomy Auditorium, University 
Center.
Modern Languages French Table. 5
pm in Skibo Coffeehouse.
CMU Womens Soccer vs. Emory 
University. 5:30pm in Gesling Stadium.
CMU Mens Soccer vs. Emory 
University. 8 pm in Gesling Stadium.
Music in a Great Space. 8 pm at
Shadyside Presbyterian Church, 5121 
Westminster Place.
Road Trip. 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight in 
McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 
Admission: $1 with CMU ID; $3 without. 
Presented by AB Films.
Black Cat 13, Get Hustle, From Ashes 
Rise, and Born Dead Icons. 7 pm at Mr.
Roboto Project. Admission: $5
Saturday, 10/7
Cuarteto Latinoamericano concert.
3 pm at Mellon Institute Auditorium. The per
formance will feature the world premiere of 
String Quartet No. 2, Op. 31 by Chilean 
composer Alfonso Montecino and Cesar 
Franks Quintet in F minor, with guest 
pianist Alma Petchersky. Cuarteto is a School 
of Music quartet-in-residence.
Titan AE. 8, 10 pm, and midnight in 
McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 
Admission is $1 with CMU ID; $3 without. 
Presented by SDC Films.
Sunday, 10/8
Yom Kippur Services. 10 am, 6:30 and 9 
pm at Rodef Shalom Congregation.
Roman Catholic Mass. 10:30 am and 8 
pm in Mellon Auditorium, Posner Hall. Also 
takes place daily at 12:30 pm in the University 
Center chapel. Contact: Roman Catholic 
Newman Center, 681-3181.
CMU Womens Soccer vs. New York 
University. 11 am in Gesling Stadium.
Moviegoers Club. 4:15 pm at Loews 
Waterworks Cinema, Fox Chapel. Following 
the showing of Meet the Parents, celebrity 
impersonator Dean Turner will imitate Robert 
De Niro. Contact: www.moviescoop.com.
UHF. 8,10 pm, and midnight in McConomy 
Auditorium, University Center. Admission is 
$1 with CMU ID and $3 without. Presented by 
AB Films.
Do you have an event you would 
like to publicize in The Tartan 
Calendar? Its free! 
Send it to 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu.
nngning
Sweepstakes Practices. From 5 to 9 am 
Saturdays and Sundays through November 12 
(weather permitting). Tech St., Frew St., and 
Schenley Drive will be closed to traffic.
FusionI Artists in a Research 
Setting. Through Friday. Open from 
Tliesday through Sunday from 11:30 am to 5 
pm at the Regina Gouger Miller Gallery, 
Purnell Center for the Arts. Admission is free. 
This display , is organized by the STUDIO for 
Creative Inquiry and Robert Atkins, Microsoft 
Research Fellow.
Fright Fest. Thursday through Sunday 
from 7 pm to midnight at IC Light 
Ampitheatre, Station Square. Haunted attrac
tions, side shows, amusement rides, games 
and more. Contact: 562-9905.
Hispanic Heritage Month. Through 
September 30 at the University Center Art 
Gallery. For more information and gallery 
hours, call 268-8704 or send an email to 
bwilson@andrew.cmu.edu.
The Turn of the Screw. Through 
October 8 at Henry Heymann Theatre, 
University of Pittsburgh. Contact: 624-PLAY.
The 2000 Pittsburgh Biennial. Through 
November 5 at the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts. Admission: $3 for adults, $2 for students 
and seniors, and free for members. Contact: 
361-0873.
The Ballad of Ramblin Jack. Showing 
through Thursday at The Harris Theater, 809 
Liberty Avenue, Downtown. For admission 
prices and showtimes, call 682-4111 or visit 
www. pghfilmmakers. org.
Trixie. Showing through Thursday at The 
Regent Square, 1035 South Braddock Avenue, 
Edgewood. For admission prices and show
times, call 682-4111 or visit http://www.pghfilmmakers.org.
The Pittsburgh New Works Festival.
Thursday (8 pm), Friday (8 pm), Saturday (6 
and 9 pm), and Sunday (4 and 7 pm) at the 
Hamburg Studio Theatre, South Side. Tickets: 
$7. This weeks plays: Transitional Girl, The 
Exchange, and A Reasonable First Step. For 
more information, call 881-6888.
Loaded. Through Thursday at the 
Center Art Gallery, 4638 Center Avenue. This 
is a Sun Crumbs sponsored group exhibit.
The Italian Influence:
Contemporary Glass. Through October 
14 at the Wood Street Galleries, 601 Wood 
Street, Downtown. For more information, call 
471-5605.
The ceramic work of Leroy Johnson.
Through Saturday at the Society for 
Contemporary Crafts, One Mellon Center 
Gallery. For more information, visit 
www. contemporarycraft. org.
Monuments, Millionaires, and 
Memories: A Walking Tour of The 
Homewood Cemetery. Until November 5. 
Tours on Wednesdays from 10 to 11:30 am; 
Sundays from 2:00 to 3:30 pm; and the first 
and third Saturdays of each month from 10 to 
11:30 am. Meet at the Homewood Cemetery 
gates at Dallas Avenue. Admission: $6 per per
son. Reservations: can be made by calling 
371-0600.
