@ht Carnegie fTartau
Vol. 35 No. 9CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1941
Noble SwingsTech Post Office 
Is Now SellingFor Dorm Hop D^nse Stamps
Vol. 35N9CA RENGN9CG INSST UC5NONll ONE FHFEL LNGYS9FCY9S ONE FG 
,o9oEFET VFLNC Volo9Nl. UNN RFSN P BoE GCoET.
FootluslI ISccorc!
Vol.3 o5N 9Co3A53 RAE G.o5N 
I5 S5.CElATTCUOo.C VAA.FoTT
By Leonard Chotiner
DOYG YG CON BYEGC oB F GNEYNG oM 
COENN FECY1lNG FCCN4RCY9S Co RENGN9C 
CON CE5N BF1CG Y9 CON eL4Y9YGCEFc
CYo9hG GCF9L o9 Y9CNEs1ollNSYFCN BooCc
tFll F9L CON ENFGo9G tNOY9L COFC 
GCF9Ls. DON HEYCNE OFG OFL F11NGG Co 
oBBY1YFl EN1oELG F9L OFG Y9CNEfYNHNL 
fFEYo5G RNEGo9G HOo FEN BF4YlYFE 
toCO HYCO CON olL GNC5R F9L CON 
CEF9GYCYo9 RNEYoL BEo4 CON BoE4NE 
eCOlNCY1 Vo591Yl 1o9CEol Co CON RENGc
N9C GTGCN4.
Intercollegiate football was start
ed at Carnegie Tech in 1906, one 
year after the school had opened 
its doors as an academic institution. 
That year, Carnegie was first rep
resented on the griairon by both 
day and night students, and a full 
schedule of games was played with 
schools in the surrounding district.
From 1906 to 1919 there were 
no formal subsidies to athletes. In 
certain individual cases, faculty 
members, alumni, and other inter
ested parties rendered some assist
ance to athletes, a policy that might 
be compared to the one in effect at 
Tech at the present time, through 
the medium of the Steffen Fund. 
However, in those days there was 
no organized effort in this direc
tion.
During that period the Tartans  
won only 42 games, while losing 
55 and tying 7, but even more 
humiliating was the fact that Tech 
had never beaten Pitt or Washing
ton and Jefferson, another tradi
tional rival, during all these years.
It should be remembered that between 1906 and 1919 the general 
student body was a dominant factor 
in the control of intercollegiate ath
letics. The whole athletic policy 
was formulated and carried out by 
a Board of Control, composed main
ly of students, but with Alumni and 
Faculty representation, directly re
sponsible to the administration.
With the ending of the World 
War. a new policy in regard to in
tercollegiate athletics was inaugu
rated. The Alumni and student, 
body were determined that if they 
were represented by a football 
team, they wanted to be represent
ed by a good one, and consequently 
steps were taken in that direction.
The old Board of Control was 
disbanded, and a new group known 
as the Athletic Council was set up. 
This council was composed of one 
trustee of the school, three alumni 
members, ihree faculty members, 
and three students each chosen 
from their respective groups, either 
by election or appointment.
With football enthusiasm at a 
high pitch in 1920, it was a rela
tively simple matter to inaugurate 
a program looking toward raising 
the amount of money for the initial
Employment News
DO YOU KNOW THAT:
Over 325 men have signed up for 
post office or baggage work at 
Christmas?
Over 275 interviews for sales work 
have been facilitated by the Stu
dent Employment office?
A number of students, continuing 
their summer work, are still 
working week-ends in steel 
mills?
There has been an increase in the 
number of calls for girls to take 
care of children?
70-80 men will be needed to work 
on an inventory of auto parts the 
last week-end in November, and 
that interested men may apply in 
rom 246 Industries?
Tech is one of few colleges which 
have a coordinated office for fi
nancial aid to studentsinclud
ing scholarships,'loans, N. Y. A., 
and part-time employment? 
Students interested in Christmas 
and Saturday work may still ap
ply in room 246 Industries?
undertaking, and the policy of 
granting athletic scholarships was 
started at Tech in that year. Some 
athletes would be provided with 
tuition, room, board, and books, by 
the Athletic Councilothers would 
be aided to a lesser degree. Never 
was a flat sum of cash paid to the 
player for his services.
The Administration was connect
ed with the Council by the presence 
on the Council of three faculty 
members and one trustee, and the 
Administration required .the foot
ball players to maintain the same 
scholastic requirements as the rest 
of the student body.
The Athletic Council hired the 
coaches, arranged the schedules, 
bought the equipment and handled 
the gate receipts of the games. It 
was also the medium through which 
high school athletes were contacted 
and brought to Tech..
This policy worked well, and 
yearly about 22 men were brought 
in by the Athletic Council Cor the 
purpose of playing intercollegiate 
athletics' Alumni contributions, 
plus the gate receipts, took care of 
paying the cost of the athletic 
scholarships and the other expenses 
of the Council. It might be inter
esting and very pertinent to point 
out that the Council supported and 
operated every intercollegiate team 
on the campus.
Tech began to enjoy capable foot
ball teams which won their share 
of major games.
In 1929 the Athletic Council 
signed a 15-year contract with the 
University of Pittsburgh, agreeing 
to use the Stadium for all home 
games, with Pitt receiving 20 per 
cent (now 18 per cent) of the. gate 
receipts. '
The years following 1929 found 
the country in the throes of one of 
the worst depressions it had ever 
Vo9CY95NL o9 IFSN P
Dr. W. L. McCabe 
Elected To Council 
Of A. I. Ch. E.
Dr. Warren L. McCabe, Head of 
the Department of Chemical Engi
neering, was elected to the Council 
of the American Institute of Chem
ical Engineers at the national con
vention held this past week in Vir
ginia Beach, Virginia. Dr. McCabe 
was one of four men to receive this 
honor. Each year the Institute elects 
four men to this position, their 
terms lasting for three years. In 
addition to Dr. McCabe, Dr. York 
and Dr. Monrad of the chemical 
engineering department attended 
the convention. The Council is the 
executive or policy making board 
of the society and meets each 
month to carry on its business.
The A. I. Ch. E. is the national 
professional society of chemical en
gineers. It is open to chemical en
gineers of sufficient professional 
merit, and sponsors student chap
ters in various schoolsTech being 
so honored. At the present time the 
Institute has a membership of ap
proximately three thousand. Prior 
to Dr. McCabes appointment, Tech 
had been represented on the Coun
cil by Dr. Webster N. Jones, Direc
tor of the College of Engineering. 
Dr. Jones has also served as Presi
dent of the A.I.Ch.E.
Dr. McCabe graduated from the 
University of Michigan, and also 
received his MastersandDoctors 
degrees at that school. He came to 
Tech as Head of the Chemical En
gineering Department in 1937, fol
lowing the retirement of Dr. James, 
former department head.
On Fridaythe Mens Dormitory 
Council will hold its annual Fall 
dance, and for the. 'first time nondormitory residents are invited. Al
though a fall dance has been held 
for several years, the attendance 
has heretofore been, restricted to 
dormitory residents.
Headlining the evenings features 
will be the danceable music of 
Leighton Noble, one of Americas 
top orchestras. Another will be the 
novel decorations for which the 
dormitory dances are famous. The 
theme of the decorations will cen
ter around the old-fashioned little 
red school house.
The dormitories are inviting all 
who attend the dance to go to the 
dormitories club rooms afterwards, 
for an extra hour of dancing, re
freshments, and games. This inno
vation will serve a two-fold pur
pose: it provides an opportunity 
for those who have never seen the 
dormitories to see the newly re-, 
modeled club rooms, and it will 
further the plan which is afoot to 
provide closer co-operation among 
fraternities, commuters, and dor
mitory residents.
Those few who have' never heard 
Leighton Nobles music have a treat 
in store, for his orchestra has been 
called the only real dance band in 
America. He comes to Carnegie  
from a demand return in Canada 
where he will have played for sev
eral days. Last week he played 
near Pittsburgh in a very success
ful engagement.
Our Southern 
Neighbors Speak
Representatives of the Diplomatic 
Corps of Mexico and Chile will 
speak at a meeting of Carnegie 
Tech students sponsored by the 
committee of management of the 
Mens Christian Association at the 
Carnegie Union this afternoon. The 
time of this meeting has been 
changed from 4:30 to 7:30 this aft
ernoon.
Although .Dr.. Rober,t,.\Gre;^..aixd 
Mr. Rollin V. Davis, both of the Y 
committee of management, have 
received numerous requests to open, 
the meeting to outsiders, they have 
arranged for attendance by Tech 
students exclusively. The meeting 
is open to students from the three 
Carnegie colleges. The South 
American diplomats have been 
brought to Pittsburgh by the Wo
mens Historical Society. It is hoped 
that in addition to the expected 
speakers, Senor Rachaal de la Colina, Consul General of Mexico, 
will be able to attend.
In view of the present interna
tional situation and the increasing 
solidarity of the American repub
lics, a large attendance is expected 
to hear these speakers.
Chem Club Meeting
Dr. J. H. McAteer will adress the 
Chemistry Club this afternoon in 
Engineering Hall, Room 122 at 4:30 
P. M. Most of the material for his 
speech which is Alkylation and 
Isomei-ization of Pai-affin Hydro
carbons will be taken from the 
experiments he is conducting for 
the Gulf Research Laboratories.
HEL Y,.lPO3A5 GBCoD3 
M. ME1O3.OlC GCE4OlC
The C. I. T. Post Office station, in 
the basement of Administration 
Hall, is now cooperating in a na
tion-wide plan for selling Postal 
Savings Stamps, which in turn may 
be used toward the purchase of De
fense Savings bonds.
These stamps may be bought 
whenever the purchaser desires, and 
in any quantity desired. They are 
conveniently priced at ten cents, 
twenty-five cents, fifty cents, one 
dollar, and five dollars. The stamps, 
when purchased, may be mounted 
on cards or albums, which are also 
suppb'ed by the bank or post of
fice station cooperating with the 
program. The completed album is 
a quick, convenient way to ex
change current savings for United 
States Savings Bonds.
One who invests in a Defense 
Savings Bond is lendingnot giv
inghis money to the Government. 
When the bond matures, he receives 
back all that he has paid, plus near
ly three per cent interest. For the 
payment of both principal and in
terest the full faith and credit of 
the United States Government is 
pledged.
Should the purchaser need the 
money he has invested, he may cash 
it in at any time after sixty days. 
A table of cash  in values  the 
amount paid with the interest added 
is printed on the face of the 
bond.
UYS4F iY ,olLG 
wYEGC. Vollon5Y54
The Society of Sigma Xi will 
hold Its first General Science Col
loquium of the 1941 season this 
Thursday, November .13, at 11:30 
A. M. in the Faculty Lounge. Dr. 
J. C. Warner, Department of Chem
istry, will give the initial address 
on "The Kinetics of Reactions in 
Solutions. '
A national scientific research ' 
honorary, Sigma Xi has had a local 
chapter for the last five years. To 
become an active member of the 
honorary, the nominee has had to 
have completed acceptable scientific 
research. Chapter meetings are 
held for the purpose of disseminat
ing information concerning all 
branches of research being carried 
out on the campus to the members. 
Dr. Carl C. Monrad, Associate Pro
fessor of Chemical Engineering, is 
president of Techs -Sigma Xi which 
numbers about seventy-five mem
bers.
Dr. Warner has experimented 
with the kinetics of various reac
tions for a number of years, and 
has presented about seven papers 
on the subject. After a brief in
troduction to the field of chemical 
kinetics, Dr. Warner will discuss 
the chief problems encountered by 
investigators of reaction rates. The 
whole treatment will of necessity 
be brief with emphasis placed on 
the investigations which have been 
conducted at Carnegie. Interested 
persons will be admitted to the 
meeting.
gE. ^. V. ,5C1OYGo9
eEoO5 cCo3CE3 
Voh HO4ONC5N3
Here is a real opportunity for 
every mathematically-minded stu
dent. The Math Club is offering 
cash prizes for solutions of prob
lems, or Brain Teasers. The per
son submitting the largest num
ber of correct solutions of the prob
lems published in the TARTAN 
will receive a cash award of $0.00; 
five additional prizes of $1.00 each 
will also be awarded. In case of 
ties, prizes will be shared.
The contest begins today and 
ends at the close of the second se
mester. Address solutions to Ralph 
E. Beatty, in care of the Department, 
of Mathematics, and drop them in 
the inter-school mail box at the 
post office. Solutions must be re
ceived no later than two weeks 
after publication.
The person submitting the best 
solution will be honored by having 
his solution published in the TAR
TAN. Also, the names of all others 
with correct solutions will be print
ed.
This contest is open only to un
dergraduates excluding officers of 
the Math Club.
The following is the first prob
lems of the series:
An airplane flies over the weather 
station at the county airport, and is 
exactly over it when a balloon is 
set free. It so happens that the 
airplane is flying directly north with 
a constant air speed, and the wind 
is blowing directly south with a 
constant velocity. The airplane 
flys north for one-half hour, then 
turns around immediately and flies 
directly south until it catches up 
with the balloon. When the air
plane meets the balloon, the balloon 
has drifted south exactly fifteen 
miles from the weather station. As
suming that the airplane and the 
balloon remain at the same height, 
determine how fast the wind is 
blowing, without using algebra.
sA1CNh tEC1OCECN O5 fO..TC cPCo.CE
By Walter Haller
New1 England Picnic, a comedy 
in three acts by Thomas Job, As
sociate Professor of Drama, will be 
the second production by the stu
dents of the Drama Department 
this season. It will open tomorrow 
evening, November 12, and will run 
through the following Wednesday, 
November 19, with a matinee per
formance Friday afternoon, Novem
ber 14.
Professor Job, a native of Wales, 
is making his first attempt to write 
a play dealing with the American 
scene. No matter how long one 
has lived in this country and work
ed with its people, Mr. Job as
serts, portraying an American 
scene in American terms is no easy 
task, and one which up until now I 
have had the sense to avoid.
While vacationing in New Eng
land this past summer, Mr. Job first 
perceived the dramatic potentiali
ties of such a play as New Eng
land Picnic. Since then he has 
been working steadily on the proj
ect and finished the play about four 
weeks ago.'-
The story is a local comedy with 
international implications. It deals 
with a group ofsum'nrter residents' in 
a New England country village and 
the trouble they get into with some 
of the inhabitants through the 
schemes of the leading character, 
an old lady who happens to have an
uncontrollable habit of telling lies. 
This group is> visited by a Polish 
nobleman who has campaigned in 
the early days of the present war. 
It is here, of course, that the in
ternational implications of the plot 
become manifest. As the climax of 
the second act, a debate is staged 
between the Polish, nobleman and 
a Senator who takes a leading part 
in the narrative.
The leading character of the play 
is Aunt Elizabeth Driscoll, whose 
unfortunate habit of telling false
hoods starts all the trouble. This 
very exacting part is filled by Jen
ny Lou Law, 43, and Septa Sander
son, 43. The Senator, also a very 
important character, is portrayed 
by James Schmidt, 44. As the 
Polish nobleman, Marvin Einhorn, 
42, has a leading rleBoyce 
Harding, 44, fills the role of John 
McAndrew, the juvenile lead. Bar
bara Burns, 43, as Cynthia Driscoll, 
and Rye Trier, 44, as Prudence 
Pelham, are cast in ingenue roles. 
Bonny Pelham, a New York semi
sophisticate, is played by Elizabeth 
Root, 42, and Marianne Brown, 44. 
Other members of the cast are Tom 
Jones, 43, and Bill Myers, 44, as 
DuIBois Pelham, A1 Checco, 44, as 
Chester McAndrew, Alice Morgan, 
43, as Mrs. McAndrew, and Jane 
Pursch, 44, as Jinny.
The scene of the play is the porch 
of a picnic club on a mountain in 
New England. Making full use of
the pictorial possibilities of the 
scene,. Mr. Lloyd Wenjnger is de
signing the settings with bis usual 
skill.
Professor Job attended the Uni
versity of Wales, where he received 
both a bachelors and a masters de
gree in arts. He joined the Car
negie Tech faculty last fall, after 
having been assistant professor in 
the Yale School of Drama. In Feb
ruary, the Tech drama department 
presented Dawn in Lyoness, a 
dramatization by Mr. Job of the 
best-selling novel of that name by 
Mary Ellen Chase.
In 1937, Mr. Jobs adaptation of 
Trollopes Barchester Towers was 
produced by Guthrie McClintic on 
Broadway with Ina Clair. Cornelia 
Otis Skinner recently purchased his 
three-act di'ama, Not to the Swift.- 
Alas, Regardless was produced 
during the winter of 1940 by the 
Birmingham Repertory Players of 
England. Directed by Sir Barry 
Jackson, the play had a successful 
run and was very favorably re
viewed.
New England Picnic is admitt
edly a difficult play to produce, and 
calls for plenty of hard work on 
the part of all concerned. It is 
satiric in nature, but no personal 
illusions are intended beyond 'those 
specifically mentioned in the play.
Monday evening, November 24, 
the Pittsburgh Womens Clan will 
be the guests at a closed perform
ance.
W. & J. President 
Advises Students 
On Todays Problems
Dr. Ralph Cooper Hutchison, 
president of Washington and Jeffer
son College, will be the featured 
speaker at todays Armistice Day 
Service.
Dr. Hutchison was invited to 
speak at Tech by President Doherty 
in the hope that he might direct 
student thought toward the values 
for which this nation fought in the 
first World War, and which are 
presumably being challenged today. 
Mr. Hutchison is well qualified to 
speak on this subject, having serv
ed with the Aviation Service of the 
U. S. Navy during the last war, 
and is well versed in the present 
international situation.
Tauglit In Persia
Previous to his appointment as 
president of Washington'and Jeffer
son, Dr. Hutchison was for five 
years Dean of American College 
of Teheran, Persia, where he had 
also served as professor'of phi
losophy and religion. The Amer
ican College at Telibran Is one of 
those groups of colleges In the near 
East which have been established 
by various religious denominations 
In t.lils country. They serve not; 
only as educational Institutions but; 
also as cultural and health cen
ters to the natives of the countries 
In which they are located.
Dr. Hutchison attended Lafayette 
College, receiving his Bachelor pi! 
Arts Degree there in I9IJI, and hi.*; 
Master's Degree from Harvard the 
following year. Me was at the 
Princeton Theological Seminary for 
three years and in the course of 
his religious work, became*; StCL't1 
tary of young peoples work on the 
Presbyterian Board of Christian Ed
ucation.
Widely Educated
He is a member of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon and Pii Delta Epsilon, na
tional Journalistic Honorary, and 
is a trustee of American College at 
Teheran and the Western Theolog
ical Seminary.
Music for todays Service will be 
furnished by members of the Kill 
tie Band, and Dr. Warden will intrduce President Hutchison.
I aF9C e DNF4 
gEYfN mNCG pyrr
To date, the I Want a Team 
Drive has netted seven hundred 
dollars from 9l6 contributors. This 
is far short of the goal of one thou
sand dollars set at the start of the 
drive. The real failure of the drive 
is, however, the lack of interest dis
played by the alumni.
Mr. Richardson, Chairman of the 
drive 'committee, would like to get 
an expression of student opinion as 
to what should be done with the 
money. At present there have been 
two suggestions offered. Either the 
money can be given to players on 
the present team, to help them de
fray their expenses, or it can be 
given to students now in school who 
have the ability to play football, 
but are not able to because they 
must earn part of their expenses 
by part time work. All students 
who have a definite opinion as to 
the dispensation of the money 
should contact Mr. Richardson. This 
may be done by leaving a note at 
the Student Council office or in his : 
box at the post office.
There is, however, one ray of 
hope on the gridiron horizon. At 
present, there are several scholar
ships which are regularly given by 
the school, but which need not nec
essarily be awarded, on a scholastic 
basis. If thesescholarships can 
be given to students of better than 
average ability, and outstanding 
athletic ability, it may help to al
leviate the present situation. This 
plan, however, has not yet material
ized.
On tli Ilccwrd
Today, November II 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. 
Charles A. H. Pearson, will super
vise this phonograph recital: Sym
phony in D minorCesar Franck.
Thusrday, November 13 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Fred
erick Dorian will be in charge of 
this performance: Symphony Path
tique, Part twoTschaikowsky. 
Selections of modern music.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1941
Sdc'i.il-Tecliigical Tie-iig ('alls 
For 5-Year Engineering Course
During our stay at Carnegie Tech we have acquired the impres
sion through personal experience and observation that our educa
tional training has not been comprehensive nor suitable to the needs 
of a future society. The engineering training we have received can
not be duplicated in the country. But, we feel that engineering 
education must include more than mathematics, chemistry, and 
mechanics; it must provide us with an adequate introduction to the 
humanistic studies; it must bridge the gap between science and 
people as a society.
Carnegie Tech is a professional school in every sense of the 
word. From engineer to the fine arts student, iutensileness charac
terizes the curricula. We are drilled course after course in tech
nical achievement; we learn little about people, labor, government, 
finance, public works, and society as a group of living beings. We 
are only interested in our own small speciality, though it in itself 
may be broad in scope. We are all embryo technicians, kings in our 
fields, but hermits in society.
We are taught that F=ma, but not that setting a price ceiling 
will not.stop inflation nor cushion the shock of inflation. We learn 
that soap is made by the saponification of fats, but not why the gov
ernment p$ys farmers'to plow under crops and slaughter hogs. We 
learn how turbines generate power, but not about rural electrifica
tion. We learn the reasons but not the applications to a living world.
Ten and fifteen years from now, it will be the professional peo
ple, the educated ones, who will be called upon to solve the prob
lems of society. To do this, one must be familiar with the causes 
md effects of the events which are occurring at the present. We 
ivill have to have a fundamental training in logical reasoning and 
Analysis of the problems which confront society. The complexity 
of the modern world, its vastness, makes a grasp of tli'e issues at 
hand quite ineffective. Leadership u democracy must have, for the 
ordinary layman can not, without a life-long application, determine 
the banking policy of a nation, the strength or weakness of another 
countrys foreign policy, the applicability of scientific endeavor to 
everyday life. We cannot solve these problems Without first learning 
the principles. But, through the medium of a wise and prudent edu
cational program, one can gain a sound background for dealing with 
these problems. UnJ.il the present, we have not received the neces
sary background and orientation.
We realize that the Social Relations program which was init
iated three years ago is a step in the right direction, but it is only a 
step. Eventually, no one knows how long, it may solve this basic 
problem of engineering training at Tech. But, we feel that no mat
ter how intensive the Social Relations program becomes, even if a 
fourth of all the time spent in school is devoted to it, it will not 
remedy the situation. The engineering courses as they exist at 
present are all deemed necessary and are crowded into four years. 
'Ilie work is hard and the training is intensive. If we intensify the 
Social Relations program, we will be overloading an already full 
schedule. Students taking engineering will believe that engineering 
is more important; consequently, they will devote more time to tech
nical subjects than to humanistic studies. The Social Relations pro
gram will be crowded, perhaps shoddily so when pressure of time and 
events is experienced, into the background.- The fundamental aim 
of the program will be defeated.
We believe that a solution to this problem lies in the lengthening 
of the engineering curricula to a five or six year course. Time will not 
become a pressing factor to disturb the equilibrium of education. An 
adequate introduction to both engineering and humanistic studies 
can be given.
We feel that the Administration should seriously consider the 
proposal of a fivo-jrear course in planning the future of the school, 
fhcy will do well to investigate the faults of the present set-up.
In Defense Ol si Good Citizen
Recently we have booh accused of being a good citizen, over
flowing with righteous indignation and honest angqr. And this accu
sation was not complimentary. It seems that, when one is occupied 
with problems that have been called  world-problems, one is either 
a moron, which we apparently escape being, or a good citizen, which 
implies that we are little children, who think that it is nice to think 
about these things and do our bit to better the world, to make it a 
pleasanter place to live in.
What result could be further from our goals? Certainly we are 
not aiming to reform this evil world with a few rather insipid edi
torials. Nor are we overwhelmed with the brilliance ,of thought in 
our various editorials. But there was some purpose in the articles 
.about the United Fund, the Ethnic Minorities Commission, and the 
American Friends Service Committee. This purpose stemmed 
not from a missionary spirit to convert the campus to our way of 
thinking, but rather from a desire to tell people about various or
ganizations and work that we happened to know about and that we 
thought would be of interest.
Indeed, the very term honest citizen seems to carry with it 
the tone of dullness, .stodginess, or a naive belief in the honor of 
politicians. Apparently those who feel the miseries of the earth and 
every now and then become indignant about them are either maudlin 
sentimentalists or stupid children. For some strange reason, we do 
not talk about these tilings because it makes us sound stuffy or much 
loo upright. But we dont, feel stuffy nor do we feel particularly 
upright, in fact, not even righteously indignant. All that is we do 
feel, and therefore wi;ite all sorts of articles about problems we 
probably cant even write about well.
Certainly the desire to be a good citizen, of a country or of the 
world, is not a silly-, school-boy dream, but it is one of the desires 
that we are supposed to hide, because we can't let people know that 
we are softies or that we are socially conscious. But we have made 
the fatal error of showing the world that we are good, solid people, 
(in quotes), and therefore we do not have to worry anymore. Now 
that everyone knows, We can write about all of our pet subjects and 
plus, so that we have gained more freedom of action by being dis
approved of, than we had ever gained by being liked. BJK.
dRY9Yo9G NbRENGGNL Y9 CON RFSNG oB CON De^Dem FEN COoGN oB CON 4N4c
tNEG oB CON GCFBB Y9 CON 1FGN oB CON NLYCoEYFl 1ol549 CONT FEN those of the 
0LYCoE. DONT FEN 9oC Co tN 1o9GCE5NL FG 9N1NGGFEYlT CON oRY9Yo9G oB NYCONE 
CON GC5LN9Cs toLT oE CON BF15lCT.Carnegie STartati
CnruoKlo institute of TeohitoIoRy, Sohenley Turk, llttsliurirli. Vn.i*ioni: mayfi.owkr atidii viionk soiienlhy -11*57
MtpnnnBNTKo Mtpn nBNMpnBTK Bov.nNM,Mnp nv . ... ,,
National Advertising Service, Inc. ..... '. 7..,. Tf, ",6uC.Iuu4 vCz vz EdUor-l,,-Chief .......... SOhcnloy J070
Alio Vol.35N o9CAC N..R E53GC NC IC Buslne Manager . .. IIAr.et S898.:..,c*no  II...,.,.  Amiri..  Advertising Manager. . SCIienley !W33
Entered UN accoml-dnss mutter In the llttslnirffh l'ost OilUio umlcr the Act of Mnroh 3, I ST It.STUVSNS.O.S weekly (luring school yonr. except hollilnyti and oxamlimtlon pcrlotlM.Subscription 1rlcc SI.10 per year.
0LYCoEsY9sVOYNB..................................................*................................ UF5l uoGNG
5GY9NGG uF9FSNE.....................................................................,FEET etEF4ofYCA
uF9FSY9S 0LYCoE........................................................................2oF99N DYGOlFEY1O
mNHG 0LYCoE.....................................................................................FEtFEF 3EF4NE
eGGYGCF9C uF9FSY9S 0LYCoE.........................................................7YltNEC 3YfN9Go9
VoRT 0LYCoE...........................................................................uNE1NLNG V599Y9SOF4
VoRT 0LYCoE.....................................................................................IOTllYG 51O4F9
URoECG 0LYCoE...........................................................................................Joe DOo4FG
eLfNECYGY9S uF9FSNE...............................................................UTlfF9 ^oGN9BYNlL
VYE15lFCYo9 uF9FSNE.....................................................................UYL9NT 7NtNloH
UCFBB eECYGC...........................................................................................0llYoCC DHNET
URoECG IOoCoSEFRONE.........................................................................VOFElNG WN91Yl
one of the boys
. . . 2F1J UFCCNEBYNlL
That quiet, unassuming chap 
from Henderson Hall is none other 
than Jack Satterfield, sub-senior in 
architecture. The fact that he is 
a Dragon shows that Jack has been 
really quite active on campus. He 
numbers among his school activi
ties such things as politics (hes 
President of the senior class in Fine 
Arts) and decorating committees. 
It was he, in fact, who was re
sponsible for the decorations in 
the gym 'at Fall Carnival. Further
more, Jack goes to almost all the 
dances and parties.
His several hobbies all pertain 
to the water. He does everything 
swims, boats, and ice-skates. As 
for particular achievements, he was 
once assistant aquatic director at a 
Boy Scout camp. He really shines 
on (the ice, however. Jack is es
pecially good at figure-skating, and 
he is searching for a partner, pre
ferably female, to accompany him. 
Jack says that you dont know half 
the fun of skating until you can 
turn some of those complicated ma
neuvers. His ambition, however, 
runs to motorboating; he wants to 
race with real competition some 
dayGar Wood, Jr. and the like 
but he says hell have to wait until 
he acquires a class A hull.
Jacks dislikes run to local con
ditions, particularly in connection 
with the smelly fogs that typify 
Pittsburgh. In fact, local weath
er irritates him greatly. Another of 
hispet dislikes, more concerned 
with Tech, is the matter of railHut To Sponsor 
Library Contest
Undergraduate students are in
vited to submit the books which 
they own in a Tech competition to 
be held at the end of the school 
year. The purpose of the competi
tion is to encourage students to buy 
books which interest them and to 
their own libraries. A prize Of $10 
begin in college the formation of 
has been offered for this purpose by 
Miss .Winifred Dennison, the head 
librarian at the Hut.
Student collections will be judged 
in May by a committee made up of 
Miss Ruby Eisman, former literary 
editor of the Pittsburgh Sun and 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, and co
author of a recent biography of 
John A. Brashear; Dr. James 
Stinchcomb, Professor of Classics 
in the University of Pittsburgh; and 
Dr. Austin Wright, of the English 
Department at Carnegie Tech. Stu
dents who wish to compete should 
notify Dr. Wright in writing before 
the end of the first semester. Fur
ther details will be announced in 
the - spring.
,NFlCO moCY1N
The Department of Student Health 
announces that the supply of cold 
preventative pulvules has been re
plenished, and that they are now 
available at the office of the resi
dent physician, room 202, Gym
nasium, at the same special cost to 
students of 50c for twenty.
The fraternity and dormitory 
students are particularly urged to 
avail themselves of this cold pre
ventative measure, since the living 
conditions of these groups are 
such that the introduction of one 
cold among them may prove a 
source of infection to the entire 
unit.
Also, the health department em
phasizes the importance of starting 
the treatment at once. It is not so 
effective if the immunization is not 
established before winter weather
roaded issues  measures put 
through with such abruptness that 
no one knows what the whole 
things about. Such things, he 
thinks, lower the standards of any 
political system. More concerned 
with his course is his grievance con
cerning the design (and many engi
neers share his opinion) of the 
Grill. The long line, the confu
sion around the dessert counter, 
and the slow passage do not strike 
him as being the results of good 
architectural work.
There seems to Jack.to be a lack 
of school spirit at the present time 
a condition which he hopes to see 
remedied before he graduates.
A Mans Army?
Dr. Melil Delivers 
Memorial Speech
Each year the American Society 
for Metals selects a person who has 
done outstanding work in metallur
gical research to deliver the Ed
ward Demille Campbell Memorial 
Lecture. This year Dr. Robert F. 
Mehl, head of Carnegie Techs De
partment of Metallurgical Engi
neering and Director of the Metals 
Research Laboratory, received the 
honor of presenting the lecture. It 
was given before the National 
Metals Congress in Philadelphia on 
October 20, 1941.
Dr. Mehl chose as the subject of 
his lecture, Pearlite. Pearlite is 
a form of steel obtained by slowly 
cooling molten metal during the re
fining process. His lecture was ac
companied by pictures of the struc
ture of steel which were taken with 
the electron microscope. These were 
the first such pictures to be shown 
in this country.
The electron microscope is a 
promising research tool recently 
developed by the Radio Corporation 
of America, and Dr. Mehls pho
tographs were made in collabora
tion with R. C. A. The instrument 
will be of great value in biology 
and physiology for work on vi
ruses and bacilli that go unperceiv-: 
ed by the ordinary misroscope. Dr. 
Mehl indicated that it should prove 
very useful in metallurgy.
PLEASE . . .
Will the person who received the 
girls white kid gloves by mistake 
at the Military Ball return them to 
the Carnegie Tech Lost and Found 
Department, or contact John 
Heights, Carnegie 1768.
sACN3 oEC MBBAO5.CN .A cClPi3 
YA5AEoEh 9Ics soNC. sAEB3
hVNllYGC IlFTG ,NEN
The Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra directed by Fritz Reiner 
will be heard in its sixth pair of 
concerts on Friday evening, No
vember 14, and Sunday afternoon, 
November 16, at the Syria Mosque. 
Gregor Piatigorslcy will be soloist 
in the performance of the Dvorak 
Cello Concerto. Mr. Piatigorsky, 
who has been called by Dr. Koussevitslcy the greatest cellist of our 
day, will also play the cello part in 
Richard Strauss Don Quixote. 
The program will also include 
Smetanas Overture to The Bar
tered Bride," and the Treasure 
Waltz" by Johann Strauss.
Gregor Piatigorsky has played 
more concerts in the United States 
and Canada during the past eleven 
years than any other cellist. In 
concerts he plays a magnificent in
strument, a Montagnana of the year 
1739. He also owns a collection of 
bows including one by Tourte, most 
famous of bow makers.
I. R. C. Will Meet
The International Relations Club, 
the girls discussion group of Car
negie Institute of Technology, will 
hold a meeting next Wednesday at 
3:30 P. M. at the Union in room B. 
They will continue a previous dis
cussion of the Far Eastern situation.
Friday night, the fifteen coeds 
who had been elected to the Hon
orary R. O. T. C. Cadet Corps re
ceived their appointments. The 
fortunate lassie to receive the rank
ing position of Cadet Colonel was 
Peggy Stuchell.
Peggy is a Senior Maggy Murph, 
majoring in Home Economics. Much 
of her time is being devoted to 
teaching the children of the 
Etna and Liberty schools the fine 
points of cooking. Peggy is quite 
active on campus, being President 
of the Carnegie Womens Christian 
Association, and Vice President of 
the Kappa Phi Delta social soror
ity.
Second in rank is Isabelle Gup 
who was appointed Coed Lieutenant 
Colonel. The girls who received 
the rank of Major were Peggy 
Young, Joanne Tishlarich, Marisse 
Forbes, Virginia Bennett, and Peg
gy Johnston. Betty Shanor, Molly 
van Amerigen, Jeanne Ann Brad
ley, Jeanne Howard, Dorothy Piper, 
Madeline Forsythe, Alice Woods,
Thistle Notice
The 1942 Thistle went on sale 
yesterday. The sale will last till 
November 20, and subscriptions are 
available at Administration Hall 
every week day from 11:30 till 1:30. 
In addition to this, there are numer
ous salesmen about the campus. No 
Thistles will be sold after the 
twentieth!
The Thistle office will be open 
today from 3:00 P. M. till 6:00 P. M. 
at which time students should re
port to get subscription booklets.
All faculty members who wish to 
have their picture taken should re
port to the studio on the third floor 
of Industries at the time specified 
in the notice they received.
and Marjorie Mapel were elected 
coed Captains.
As part of the evenings ceremon
ies, the honorary officers took part 
in formally pledging the seventeen 
Junior R. O. T. C. students who 
have been called to Scabbard and 
Blade. The students who were 
pledged were Robert Allers, Ted 
Burtis, Earl Callendar, Nelson 
Crooks, James Curry, Vernon 
Evans, Tom Gregorious, Dan Lindstrom, Jack Loftus, Willis Marlatt, 
Wm. Newman, Willard Rafferty, 
Robert Sleesman, Enoch Turnoch, 
Lewis Wetzel, Max Williams, and 
Millard Gordon.
The third highlight of the even
ing was the presentation of the tro
phy to the organization which won 
the Scabbard and Blade drill com
petition. The competition was held 
on Saturday, November 1, at which 
time the Delta Upsilon fraternity, 
led by Cadet. Colonel Robert Beck, 
proved itself outstanding by the 
precision and snappy appearance of 
their movements. Placing second 
in the competition was the Beta 
Theta Pi fraternity, and the Fresh
man Engineers placed third.
THE PROGRESS OF A 
COMMUNITY IS REFLECTED 
IN THE 
CHARACTER OF ITS BANKS 
B
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 
7:15 p. m.
Absent: Messrs. Durbin. Smith, Moor
man, Tennyson, and Misses Whitney and 
Hogg.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Social
Mr. Burton reported that the calendar 
for 1942-43 is being made out. and the 
date for Spring Carnival must be ap
proved. He moved that May G. 7, and 8, 
be set as Spring Carnival for 1943.
Motion carried.
Mr. Burton moved that Student Coun
cil approve the petition from Alpha Chi 
Alpha, asking for the use of Thistle Hall 
on November 20 for a tea danoe.
Motion carried.Mr. Burton moved for approval of the 
Cwens petition for use of Thistle Hall on 
November 25 for a tea dance.
Motion carried.
Mr. Burton presented the Greek Swing 
and Sing rules and moved for approval.
Motion carried.
Mr. Burton introduced Mr. Martin 
Chworowsky, who talked to Council about 
National Defense. The City Defense Coun
cil feels that the problems of defense 
should be discussed with the students, and 
the students should have a voice in de
termining school policies on defense in
struction. A group is being organized to 
talk about the war problems and to decide 
what special abilities on this campus could 
be utilized in carrying out the plans to 
the Pittsburgh Defense Council. The 
Council meeting was opened to discussion. 
Mr. Richardson announced that plans are 
being made to devote three assembly pro
grams to discussions of National Defense. 
Mr. Richardson appointed Miss Fleming 
and Mr. Miller to represent Student Coun
cil in the group that is to work with the 
faculty on the problems of defense. 
Elections
Mr. Kritscher announced that as a result 
of the election, the students have preferred 
a four-day Carnival. The band which had 
received the most votes was Fred Warings, but Mr. Burton explained that we 
could not hire this band because it is non
union and has too high a price. Mr. 
Kritscher moved that Council approve the 
results of the election.
Motion carried.
New Business
Mr. Breswick asked what will be held 
on the fourth day of Carnival. Mr. Bosak 
said  that the main event will be a car
nival" day.
Mr. Reynolds presented a proposed 
amendment to the Constitution of the In
tramural Board. The change provides 
that no student competing in an inter
collegiate sport can participate in that 
same sport in intramural competition dur
ing the same school year. This provision 
does not keep him from competing in an
other sport. The amendment will be 
tabled until the next meeting.
Mr. Bosak said that the four-day Car
nival was preferred by so small a mar
gin that he is not sure that we should 
have the extra day. The question is 
whether we shall have classes on Thurs
day. Mr. Wines suggested we try to get 
approval for taking the day from one 
vacation and adding it to Carnival, and we 
can decide whether or not to have a threer 
day or four-day Carnival later. Mr. Bosak 
moved that Student Council petition the 
Executive Board that we have no classes 
on Thursday, May 7, 1941.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
DOROTHY PIPER, 
Secretary.
Football . . .
Vo9CY95NL BEo4 IFSN - 
encountered, ,and gate receipts here, 
3s in almost every large college, fell 
to the point where they could no 
longer sustain the heavy expenses 
of the intercollegiate sports pro
gram. Nor could the Alumni, in 
those years, do much to help meet 
the expenses, with the result that 
in 1936, the Athletic Council owed 
the school (for tuition, room, board 
and books) a considerable sum of 
money.
DON GN1o9L FECY1lNz HOY1O HYll FRc
RNFE Y9 9NbC HNNJhG DFECF9z HYll 
LNFl HYCO IENGYLN9C goONECThG FEc
EYfFl o9 CON 1F4R5G Y9 -qkKz OYG 
.RolY1YNGz F9L CON GCNRG CFJN9 Co ENc
L51N CON eCOlNCY1 Vo591Yl LNtC.
ATTENTION
TECH STUDENTS
Go To 
Oaklands Headquarters 
For Speedy Dry Cleaning 
IN OAKLANDS ONLY
3 HOUR CSG
TAILS, TUX 
EVENING WEAR 
UI0Vve:
$1.00
Try Our 3-Hour
CLEANING SERVICE
(slightly higher)
Sen?! Co.
Cleaners & Launderers 
3919 Forbes St. SC. 4313
CALL AND DELIVERY
Each time you taste ice-cold Coca-Cola, you are reminded 
that here is the quality of genuine goodness. Experience... 
many a refreshing experience ... has taught people every
where to trust the quality of Coca-Cola.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

MtpnMBNTKovLose to Oberlin, Grove Ciiy
The Teohites dropped their final and fighting spirit that the Skibos
game of the season last Friday by displayed. During the* encounter
the close score of 1-0. Playing the Pinky Lees received an eye inGrove , City eleven, the Booters jury and Bob Reisacher a 'back incoxildnt seem to put the ball across jury; all of which demonstrated
for a point although they came that the game was a hard fought
close to scoring on numerous ocencounter.
caslon,s. The Grove City booters Playing an especially good game
scored their one and only point in for the Tartans in both the Oberthe first moment or two of play, lin and the Grove City encounters
with the Skibos offering little rewas Stan Malinski. Others playing
sistance. After this stunning blow a good game were Ivan Sivachak,
the Techites gradually gathered Bob Reisacher, Will Dean and Nclmomentum and kept the visitors son Crooks. This years 'team was
from scoring again for the durachiefly composed of seniors, theretion of the encounter. fore the prospects for next year
The preceding week the Skidont look too ibright, especially
bos dropped another heartbreaksince there were only three join
ing game to Oberlin College at Obiors and four sophomores on the
erlin, Ohio. As was usual for the team this year. However, there are
whole season, the game was occamany good freshman who will
sioned with a strong wind and a undoubtedly bolster next years
steady downpour of rain. The team.
score, 1-0, indicates that it was a The freshman have two games
hard fought encounter all the way remaining this season: one a return
through. Oberlin seemed to be the encounter with the Western Penntoughest competition the Skibos met sylvania school for the Deaf on
during the season, as their record Wednesday of this week and their
also indicates. They had beaten final game with a Pittsburgh Y.
most of the schools in 'the surroundM. C. A. on Saturday,
ing district plus a strong University 
of Chicago eleven. The Tech boys 
put all they had into the encounter 
and really demonstrated that they 
had the fighting spirit that the Ski
bos are noted for.
During the initial period of play 
Oberlin put across their winning 
point but were prevented from scoring again due to the good teamwork
INTRAMURAL ALL-STAR GAME 
T 2oN DOo4FGz URoECG 0LYCoE
Something new in the line of 
Intramural Athletics will be intro
duced in the Tech Bowl this Thurs
day afternoon to the students inter
ested in football at Carnegie Tech. 
An All-star 'game will be played, 
the best in the Fraternity leagues 
against the outstanding players of 
the Dormintory and Independent 
league. Due to the efforts of Don 
Jordano, this whole scheme was or
ganized and carried out, aided by 
the members of' the Intramural 
Managers Club.
The field in the Bowl will be cut 
down to regular touch football di
mensions, and the usual six-man 
teams will compete for honors in 
the tussle. The game will serve a 
dual purpose in that it will decide 
which league is favored with the 
best players, and the proceeds will 
go toward the I Want a Team 
Fund. The price of admission to 
the game is ten cents, the proceeds 
being used to aid a definitely worth
while project.
The contest should be of interest 
to a}l those students interested in 
touch football and to everyone in
terested in improving the varsity 
football situation at Tech. It is the 
opinion of all the students who were 
consulted when the plan was in the
process of being formed, that the 
touch football season would become 
more interesting and give the play
ers something to work forif they 
can look forward to playing in the 
Intramural All-star game, they will 
certainly be more active and more 
competitive in their playing 
throughout the season.
The Intramural Managers Club, 
which is composed of the managers 
of all the actively competing teams 
in both Independent and Fraternity 
leagues, selected the members of the 
teams by popular ballot, choosing 
the outstanding players in the whole 
Intramural program. For the first 
team on the fraternity side, Brinn, 
Beta Sigs, and Rhodes Theta Xi, 
were chosen as ends. Syl Rosenfeld, Beta Sig, got the nod for the 
center position, and Chotiner, Tau 
Delt, was given the signal calling 
job. The first team was completed 
with Eddie Chipman, Kappa Sig, 
and Cy Herre, DU, as the halfbacks. 
The second team was composed of 
Tau Delt Irv Kaplan, Kappa Sig 
Ted Burtis, and Delt George Van 
Nort at the ends. The center chosen 
was Tom Durbin, Delta Tau Delta, 
while the quarterback was Ted Kasanowski, Phi Kap. The halfbacks 
for the reserve team are Stu Lee, 
Kappa Sig, and Dierker, DU. Hon
orable mention goes to ends Riesacher and Nichol of PiKA and Sig
ma Nu respectively, and PiKA 
quarterback Ward Duchene. The 
coaches for the fraternity team will 
be DArle Hindall, from the ranks 
of Delta Upsilon and Bill Heer, a 
Delt.
The independent team has not yet 
been chosen, but following are the 
names which will probably be on 
the lineup opposing the Greeks. 
Warner of Scobell and McGills 
Messenger will hold down the 
terminal positions for the GDIs. 
Scobell has another representative 
in Bub, probable center, and Mc
Laughlin and Bundy, both of Mc
Gill, will fill the halfback positions. 
McDonald and Bash will be com
petition for these positions. The 
quarterback berth will most likely 
be filled by VanOrman, another 
Scobell man. Scobell offers another 
possibility for the terminal berth 
in Reynolds. This team Will be 
coached by Bash of Scobell, Pranses, Citcomer, and another mem
ber of the commuters clan whose 
name has not yet been disclosed.
D. U.s Are Champs
Last week the D. U.s played the 
McGillites for the intramural 
championship and won in a bril
liantly played game.
Notice
All those students interested in 
serving as referees for the intra
mural basketball games should re
port to the Intramural office in the 
Gym.
sL GL wHnMg
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Holding down the left end position for the Cincinnati Bearcats is Jim 
Croucher, one of the leaders in dealing out defeat to the Carnegie Tech 
eleven.
Cincinnati Eleven 
Defeats Tecli, 20-0
Passing Proved 
To Be Deciding 
Factor In Game
MILK SHAKESped by fine aerial defense. Cincin
natis last score was the climax 
of a GO yard march with Smollen 
and Zelinski alternating on. the 
ball carrying. Smollen smashed 
through the Skibo line from the 4 
yard-marker for the touchdown. 
The conversion was unsuccessful, 
leaving the score 20-0.
Next week the Tartan warriors 
are not scheduled to play giving 
them a chance to recover after a 
long tough series for their final bout 
Which is against the Pitt Panthers.
Made from Pure Whole Milk 
for only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
Once again the Carnegie Tartans 
met defeat in a .foreign field, this 
time at Cincinnati. The score was 
20-0, which gave nearly 7,500 
homecoming fans of the Bearcats 
a pleasant day at Nippert Stadium.
Cincinnati did not open up un
til the second period when they 
scored their first touchdown follow
ed by a conversion which left 
Carnegie 'trailing by a score of 7-0 
at the haU. The last two periods 
saw the Bearcats make one touch
down each quarter.
Cincinnati was severely cramped 
in the first quarter by penalties in
flicted upon them. Three times 
decisions of the referee stopped 
the Bearcats from crossing the Plaid 
goal line. One of the drives that 
placed the Cincinnati team in scor
ing position was the recovery of 
a Skibo fumble by Willie Stargel an 
end. Another push was made by 
Timmons and Davis going around 
end, well escorted by interference, 
but each time they were thwarted 
by penalization.
Cincinnati Scores
In the second period, Gretchen 
intercepted a pass on the Tech 49. 
Nickel then threw a 40 yard pass 
to Gretchen with the result of a 
touchdown. The first attempt for 
the conversion was wide, but Tech 
was penalized for offside which 
gave the Bearcats another chance. 
The second try was good.
Tech tried a pass attack in the 
second half which kept Cincinnati 
on the defensive for a while, but 
after taking time out, the Tar
tans aerial offensive was checked 
by the Bearcat secondary. Smollen 
and Zelinski took advantage of 
holes opened up by their line, but 
this drive was stopped on the Plaid 
15 yard-line. Fritz then threw a 
pass which was intercepted on the 
Tech 40 by Smollen. The Cats 
then threw anothe pass with 
Croucher on the receiving end on 
the Tech 5. He went over stand
ing up. Smollen kicked the extra 
point making the score 14-0.
The Skibos started another pass 
defense, but the drive was stopNEAREST STORES LOCATED
---AT---
395 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet StreetGc^Hwgc eIafSgm 
cpA fO5C3 RAE yr lC5.3
Bctwoon tho lionra of 12 and 5 P. M.
n^99Md ewMsIg MffwdG
25 ellNTG
1916 MURRAY AVENUE JAokson 0200
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
tEA3BCl. VAE 
sL SL cL soUCE3 
fAAD3 YABCR,T
The basketball season is drawing 
near, the first, game being played 
here with Waynesburg College on 
Friday, December 5. Most of us re
member the performance of last 
years Tech team, and are hoping 
for a better one this year. The 
varsity has had little practice as 
yet, but will start in pretty soon. 
Playing football has prevented 
Alexander, I-Iolets, and Hennessey 
from attending practices, and soc
cer has done the same to Malinski 
and Rhodes. However, the last soc
cer game of the season was played 
last Friday with Grove City, and 
the football team has only the Pitt 
game remaining. As yet there can 
be no definite statement regarding 
the membership of the varsity 
basketball team, but "there will 
probably be a fair number of new 
faces appearing in the lineup.
On the other hand the freshman 
team will most likely be chosen 
soon, since the boys have been prac
ticing for about two weeks. Coach 
Hannum has stated that it is the 
best freshman team that has been 
seen here at Tech for about four 
or five years. This is substantiated 
by the score of the game that was 
played last Wednesday between the 
varsity and the freshmen, in which 
the freshmen finally lost, 41-48.
FOR A GOOD SHOW CALL Atlantic 9200Gc9MgH eIafSgm MffwdG
kK ellNTG
3009 FORBES STREET MAyfiower 0474
^gSbw9GScd 9ws9wMcSIg
-K ellNTG
407 SOUTH CRAIG STREET (Near Forbes) MAyfiower 2998
Always ciunn and 
iree from goo no 
matter hov/ often 
you smoke it. Challcnging hi.gheYpriced pipej in briar 
quality and value. 
WM.DEMUTH SCO..N. Y.
HANDKERCHIEF 
TEST PZOVES 
VITAL Z0N2 
ALWAYS f 
SPOTLESS 1/
' The St7rsifTr''in ?,0 Down"
?wF8F ^l' Vol.35N9
0oo Vol
NO G00 
CAN PASS
GUARD
6UTO
FOoHLl
BYxdu.
PATRONIZE TARTAN 
ADVERTISERS
IBC5O5U GBClOoT3
Any Plain 
Garment.
Cash and Carry
No Cramming Necessary!
For swell flavor and 
real chewing fun-the 
answer is delicious 
Wrigleys Spearmint Gum
3-HOUR SERVICE
(Siiffhtly. Higher)CAMPUS
3-HOUR
CLEANERS
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1941 
4009 FORBES STREET 
MUseum 1288
VduI:0D0 :ejmg^x U0^WvV0
ucIvzG
Shirts
so1B,3 sTCo5CE3
3608 FORBES ST. (3 Doors from Craig)
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
CINCINNATI FLANKERSkibo Booters Close Season;

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CAENEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1941
Evening 
School 
Section of 
Tartan
Gnral News 
Editorial Comment 
Fraternal Organizations
The Mailbox
Mr. Editor:
Old Timer speaking again. Jf any 
of you missed the first round, come 
hither, for itll still be a good bat
tle. However, bear in mind that 
it is not the writers intention to 
cluster up this column with a lot of 
idle chatter by repudiating the op
ponents weak defensive excuses. It 
was surprising to hear that the 
shoe fit some whom the writer did 
not even have in mind. Be assured 
that any comments can be backed 
up and will if the occasion arises.
To begin with, and for the sake 
of carrying on what the writer in
tends to be a noble effort to excite 
student interest in campus activi
ties, it is Old Timers wish that his 
identity be kept a secret for the 
time being. For this reason he cant 
answer how many points he earned 
last year, how many affairs he at
tended to help make a success, or 
what he did to help the council. 
After the general consensus of opin
ion expressed by the student voting 
body, he will agree with the letter 
on the most futile and ludicrous 
election of student officers that was 
ever called an election. Some may 
think the writers criticisms unfair, 
.but please remember that they are 
intended to 'be constructive and 
will certainly be so if the student 
takes time enough to carefully con
sider the situation.
Enthusiasm Lacking:
Those of us who have been 
around for quite a few years, sense 
the evils and lack of enthusiasm 
that exists on our evening school 
campus and cant be expected to sit 
idly by and watch the fruit of years 
of work just slowly be cast into 
the winds.
There may be those who, after 
reading some of these articles on 
Council and what it is doing to 
incite student interest, may yell 
censor. Remember that up un
til last year and for three years 
in succession, council was always 
being smeared by the editors, many 
times the accusations being unjust 
and untrue. This years editorial 
staff, as was last years, is anxious 
to help council and to promote in
terest in activities. That urge to 
help, however, must be mutual and 
forth coming from both sides. Those 
ol' us who yell censor must re
member that we should thank God 
we still live in country where we 
have freedom of press, speech, re
ligion, and many other things.
Architects Ilohl OiTices
Arguments; will sometimes arise 
because of some evil that exists, 
but still when the smoke is clear
ed away, the guilt cannot be plac
ed upon any certain individual. Re
gardless of how the following will 
be presented, there will be those 
who will feel offended, but should 
they momentarily consider the 
graveness of the situation and the 
fact that the council is no play-> 
thing nor some rotten political set
up; but the very nucleus of the stu
dents well being on the campus, 
they will agree that one must be
gin at the very root of the trou
ble to remedy it.
Some of you may recall the ed
itorial written .by the president of 
Evening Student Council two years 
ago in which he vigorously de
nounced the accusation that the 
Arts officers took upon themselves 
to the effect that they -were run
ning council and also the lack of 
interest as it existed in the iFne 
Arts College. The Arts students 
should take heed of the following:
Until three years ago, the de
partments in Fine Arts, other than 
the architects, managed to place at
PATRONIZE TARTAN 
ADVERTISERS
least one member of their group 
into council each year. Since then 
the architects have held all four 
offices each year with practically 
no opposition at all. Its been such 
a complete walk-away that you 
might term it self installation.
Who is to be blamed for this? 
Certainly we cant blame the archi
tects, for wherever you go basic 
politics are the same and the hu
man element never changes either. 
We all want what we can get and 
will certainly fight for it if we 
want it badly enough. Can we then 
blame these officers for failing in 
their supposed missionary duties 
by not trying to spread the enthusi
asm of social activities to all those 
within the Fine Arts College, and 
think of them as a political ma
chine trying to hold everything 
within their own group?
Such being the case, how can it 
be said that these officers represent 
the Arts College? How can the 
students let such an insinuation and 
gross untruth be existant? Is the 
caliber of the architects so su
perior to those of the other de
partments or do the latter just not 
care? Are we to continue seeing 
such a lack of enthusiasm and just 
give up the thought that Fine Arts 
contain other than architectural stu
dents? Can we justly hope to see 
more representation by Arts Col
lege Students in all campus activi
ties in the future? Yours is the 
will to revive, or let it die.
OLD TIMER.
Campus Chatter
Amoozin but confoozin  Kid 
Caroline with her pig tails and tassle cap looking like a well-scrub
bed Topsy and trying to imper
sonate The Shrew, and giving an 
ear-beating to that easy-going, softspoken Steve Delli Gatti. It turn
ed out to be the most eloquent si
lence yet witnessed ... A little 
note from Mrs. Annex to her son 
Arnold in the Air Corps, Well, 
son, I hope you have been punctual 
in rising every morning so that you 
havent kept the regiment waiting 
breakfast for you. Jane Coburn 
and Eleanor Brown have been 
brushing-up on their rug cutting 
every Monday in the Gym. Seems 
theyre contemplating attending the 
next dancethe line forms to the 
right, boys . . . Bob King has be
come very daringafter all these 
years with nothing but the skies for 
a cover, he has invested in a hat. 
Hasnt anybody ever told him about 
snowballs and hats, etc.? . . .
Steve Marcinizyn and Bill Hurtt 
kept the fun rolling with their par
lor games at the party Jim gave 
for the staff last weekthe only 
disappointmentno rabbits in their 
bag of tricks . . . That happy 
look on A1 Grande and Jim Lehrens faces isnt because theyre not 
. eligible for the Sadie Hawkins 
Racewe understand its because 
everyone is cooperating so well 
with them in their efforts to make 
the United Fund drive a success 
. . . FLASH! Its a red head from 
West View with Jim Miller at the 
Military Ballwell wager theyre 
going steadyits the third date in 
a row and thats steady when it 
comes to Jimall 'the others seem 
to lose out in the semi-finals.
Attention Workers
Students interested in working 
toward an Insignia are requested to 
mail in their names to Lou R. 
Fosner, Social Chairman of the 
Evening Student Council, Box 353, 
C. I. T. These names, together with 
those who have already worked at 
some function, will be used as a 
mailing list for sending out tickets 
to Council dances. The tickets are 
to be distributed to friends who 
plan to attend the dance, and credit 
will be given for all tickets turned 
in at the door. 
Engineers Notice
Evening Engineering students in
terested in positions on the social 
committee, please watch future 
Plaid issues for the announcement 
concerning time and place of initial 
meeting to be set by your Council 
Officers.
DON VFE9NSYN IlFYL
Page edited by Evening School 
Students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. All views or opin
ions expressed in editorial column 
are not necessarily endorsed by the 
Editorial Board of the Day School 
Staff.
Editor 
James H. Miller 
News Editor 
Adeline King 
Associate Editors 
Anna June Davidson 
Francis Lacny 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Staff
C. M. Christ Robert C. King
Lawrence Coates Stephen Marcinizyn
Chas. Frost David W. Pettigrew
Joe Haughney Ronald E. ShofF
John Hopkins Emmett Shutes
G. William Hurtt Frank J. Young
JOHNNY MIZE
and
MORTON COOPER
Fort Piit is the Place
Arts Dance 
Thanksgiving Dance 
Special Articlesartie (fraruecjie ptaid
FORT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Appearing 
In This 
Weeks 
Issue
to Buy 
TYPEWRITERS
VO5C ME.3 S5O.OoT Ho5lC 
S5.EAN,lC3 fC5 noT4CE5
Neil Buckley Given 
Hearty Reception 
At Armistice Ball
Anyone strolling past the Gym 
last Saturday night would have 
halted his steps to listen to the 
lovely strains of melody coming 
from the open windows of the hall 
... it was Len Malvern and his 
boys giving out with their sweet 
syncopation for the benefit of the 
Art students and their friends on 
the occasion of their annual Ar
mistice Ball being held on that par
ticular evening. His arrangements 
of the various popular tunes pre
sented were without fault, and Neil 
Buckley, the featured vocalist with 
the band, did justice to all his num
bers. Neil will be remembered for 
his one-time connection with the 
orchestras of Don Bestor and Ben
ny Burton.
The Gym, decorated in Military 
theme by the Day Students for 
their dance the evening before, has 
never been gayer or more colorful 
with its ceiling of pliofilma novel 
idea in decorations for the campus. 
The Evening Students extend their 
sincere appreciation to the Day 
School for the use of the decora
tions.
Corsages and programs, as usual, 
were presented to the first two 
hundred ladies present.
The dance was a complete suc
cess in every respectit was well 
managed by those in charge, and 
well attended. A vote of thanks is 
extended to those students whose 
efforts made possible this affair, 
and to those who came out to help 
clean up after the dance.
T urkey Dance
Council Engages 
Barretts Band
The annual Thanksgiving Recess 
Dance, held each year by the Even
ing Student Council, is one of the 
oldest, most traditional, and out
standing events on the social cal
endar. As the custom has di
rected, the dance will he held dur
ing the Thanksgiving Recess in the 
gymnasium. This affair is a very 
popular one with the evening stu
dents, since it is the first semil'ormal dance scheduled in the fall 
term. The dance decorations will 
be accented by the colorful gowns 
worn by the'young ladies present.
The theme of the dance will be 
in keeping with the Thanksgiving 
season, and many plans are being 
formulated now in order to present 
a truly spectacular dance.
Lou R. Fosner, social chairman 
of the Evening Student Council, has 
been seeking a suitable band for 
this occasion, and, alter auditioning 
many orchestras, has been very for
tunate in obtaining a splendid band 
under the direction of Lee Bar
rett. Lee Barrett has a very ac
tive schedule, but he is coming in 
l'rom Ohio in order to play at the 
Thanksgiving Semi-formal; and his 
smooth music is sure to satisfy all 
those who are fortunate enough to 
be present at this dance.
sAABCEo.OA5 aOTT tEA1A.C 
GOOCCC33R,T GAlOoT Gl2325
The importance of arousing in
terest in the extra-curricular activ
ities was pointed out in last weeks 
issue of the campus newspaper. 
That interest is necessary to bring 
all well-planned programs to suc
cessful terminations is equally es
sential. How then to maintain in
terest after its significance has been 
realized would be the next step con
fronting leaders in any project. 
With these ideas as n yard stick, 
let us see how the Evening Student 
Council would measure up.
At some very important functions 
held by the council, 'Considerable 
time was given over to impressing 
upon those present what nil the ac
tivities mean and load up to. When 
the affairs were over cm I It? a num
ber of students indicated their will
ingness to work by giving In their 
names to bo put on the workers 
list, but what good is this If there 
is no follow-up? Witness the lack 
of students turning out for the 
preparation periods.
Organization Needed 
One of the hardest things to ac
complish appears to be that of free
dom and ease in mingling with the 
other workers. It is rather dis
couraging to come out for a work 
period to find nothing clicking, and 
the new workers soon lose what in
terest they had. Often there was 
very little equipment to work with; 
spot lights were nowhere to be 
found: no scheme for decorations, 
as well as other equally important 
items were hot given sufficient at
tention by those in charge.
To combat these situations the 
Council has at its disposal, if it 
would only utilize it, a plan for ac
tion which would solve many of 
the problems. One of the first po
sitions created.by the Council in its 
xearly days was that of Social Chair
man, as the importance of this keyman was very apparent. Now let 
us see what a social chairman can 
doif he takes his job seriously, 
and if he holds this position he 
should, or else resign and let some
Let's go to
IS JULY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM 
CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the 
College District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3711 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
other student function in this ca
pacity.
The first thing to be done would 
be to make a complete list of all the 
possible workers, including new 
workers. Draft up a suitable let
ter to he sent to each worker 
acknowledging the receipt of his 
or her name, and soliciting contin
ued support for the projects of the 
Council throughout the year. A let
ter of this kind would go a long 
way towards conveying to the 
worker a feeling of mutual coopera
tion.
The next thing would be for the 
social chairman) to take the social 
calendar and mark down the dates 
of the functions and see what could 
be planned for the individual par
ties. Falling in order would be the 
proper notification to the students 
fur enough in advance of the date 
of the activity, proper advertising 
on the bulletin boards, advance 
mailing of tickets, and notification 
of the proper time of work pe
riods. lie should select a social 
committee and have a meeting of 
this committee and assign to vari
ous persons certain duties to be 
taken care of at the work periods. 
Above all he should see that a 
proper workers sheet is prepar
ed whereon the workers would re
cord their names for work done 
and not the nondescript pieces of 
scrap paper or cardboard picked up 
from the floor which only too often 
have been employed.
If the workers are properly im
pressed and they feel that their 
work is appreciated, they will re
spond, b.ut some have come to the 
conclusion that with the slipshod 
manner used in recording work pe
riods there is too much chance of 
their not getting credits for points 
earned at a work period. This fea
ture should be corrected immediate
ly by official action of Council. 
After all, the students earn these 
points; they are essential for se
curing an insignia; they lead to 
other things; .th(?refore, precaution 
should be taken to safeguard them. 
Provision should be made to en
able as many as possible to earn 
points. All work periods should be 
properly announced in the paper 
and not promiscously changed to 
suit the whims of a few individuals.
The Council should see to it that 
the social chairman, if he is not a 
member of Council, sits in on the 
meetings so he can present his 
problems and make, corrections. 
Council should also take action to 
formulate rules governing the of
fice of social chairman and hold this 
officer strictly accountable thereto.
It might be said this is a big as
signment, but reflect a littleisnt 
it much better to have everything 
done well? It should be noted that 
the office of social chairman carries 
a stipend, and the holder thereof 
should be held responsible for the 
proper execution of the position.
With due regard to these various 
items it should not be long before 
every one of the workers on the 
Council activities would be striving 
for successful parties. Cooperation 
is a big factor and Council, .social 
chairman and students, alike, must 
cooperatethen results will come.
G1ADCE3 .oDC .A sPC3.CEROCTN 
TODC o N,lD .oDC3 .A po.CELLL
because theyre definitely Milder 
Cooler-Smoking... Better-Tasting
1rs
Chesterfields cant-be-copied blend... 
the right combination of the best cigarette 
tobaccos that grow both here and abroad 
. . . gives a man what he wants ... a ciga
rette thats definitely MILDER and that com
pletely SATISFIES.
CHESTERFIELD FOR A MILDER COOLER SMOKE
