Cyert Funds Gynecologist 
Fulltime Women Students
President Cyert, at a recent Student 
Policy Committee meeting, approved and 
gave financial support to the gynecological 
services proposal submitted by an Ad Hoc 
Committee chaired by Marty Lisberger, 
president of WDC.
According to Marty, major points of 
9 consideration when developing the plan 
were to provide gynecological care for 
Carnegie-Mellon women students, with 
financial support from the University and 
complete confidentiality for students 
involved as to the nature of the use of this 
service.
To achieve this, the Committee con
tacted two gynecologists, Dr. Thomas 
Allen, located in Oakland, and Dr. David 
Katz, downtown Pittsburgh, who have 
agreed to provide office services to CMU 
students.
Another Committee concern in develDorms, Frats Plagued By 
Burgularies
By Gary Bronheim
Another robbery has been reported in 
the dormatories with another unsuccessful 
attempt resulting in a description of the
 suspected perpetrater.
A stereo and several rings were stolen 
from Jane Kosstrin on 2-D floor of Morewood Gardens sometime after midnight 
Thursday evening. At midnight a floor 
meeting was held attended by all those on 
the floor at the time except Ruth Wells, 
Janes roommate who was asleep. The only 
suspect is an unidentified male who was
seen on the floor at 1:30. Apparently the 
robber entered the room either not 
noticing Ruth sleeping, and/or not causing 
enough noise to wake her. Security 
commented that similar robberies have oc
curred in the fraternities when one of the 
people in the room was there. In room 419 
E tower of Mo&ewood, Steve Miller woke 
up, saw a male he described as being about 
* 5 ft. 9 in., 21-22 years old, with a black 
beard who was wearing a green coat. Steve 
believed the youth entered the room with 
the intention of burglary, of which he was 
unsuccessful.
continued on page 3
oping this program was to determine the 
types of gynecological needs and the ex
tent of use of such service by CMU stu
dents when made available on a no-cost per 
visit basis.
In response to this, both physicians will 
maintain a record for purposes of eval
uation of the service. Since the Committee 
and the University wish to insure the con
fidentiality of the student-physician rela
tionship, and wish in no way to identify 
students making particular use of the ser
vice, the record will be kept in terms of 
categories of service and numbers of con
sultations per category solely.
The length of this service will be until 
May 1, 1973 or until University funds 
which cover 500 office visits have been 
depleted; whichever comes first. The pro
gram is effective immediately and any 
woman who is a full-time student at CMU 
is eligible to use these funds. The two
gynecologists involved in this program are 
Dr. Thomas Allen, Craft Avenue, Pgh., Pa. 
15213 (office number 682-1917) and Dr. 
David Katz, Carleton House Hotel, Pgh., 
Pa. 15219 (office number 281-6631). To 
make an appointment, personally call 
either physician or work through the Stu
dent Health Service. When making an ap
pointment, state that you are a full-time 
student at CMU; at the time of the visit
Plan; Eligible
present a currently valid CMU ID card.
The University will cover the $10.00 fee 
for the office visit. This reduced fee was 
cooperatively agreed to by the physicians 
and the University specifically for CMU 
students. The student is responsible for 
laboratory fees and prescription medical 
costs, including diaphragms and IUDs.
At the close of each month, the Student 
continued on page 3
McGill Renovation Unsubstantiated By
December 5, 1972 Volume 73 Number 12
by John Spalding
Plans being kicked over in adminis
trative offices about the renovation and 
possible conversion into apartments of 
McGill, Boss or Scobell halls, have thrown 
the residents of McGill hall into a minor 
panic. A petition was circulated, receiving 
50 of a possible 63 signatures, by the two 
MDC representatives, Walter Lute and 
Michael Chappie. They protest the alleged 
inconvenience caused in the event the 
residents are forced to move out of McGill 
into other housing accomadations, with a 
possible increase in cost. McGill currently 
offers the lowest rates for rooms on cam
pus, matched only by Boss Hall.
Administrative officers think such 
actions predate the actual situation. In the 
words of Mr. David Ginevan, Those 
people seem to know more than we do. 
According to him, the idea of renovating 
one of the hill dorms was only being tossed 
around between various administrative and 
student leaders to test its feasibility. He 
stressed, Those people are thinking of de
tails, like where am I going to live, how 
much is it going to cost, while we arent 
sure which building would be affected, or 
if we will even do anything up there.
Other reactions by members of the administration might prove illustrating. DrT 
Rutledges first question was, Wheres 
McGill?. He emphasized the tentative 
nature of the plan until he called Housing 
Manager Dillon and confirmed his hypothe
sis. Have you seen Frank Collisimo was 
followed by a quick statement to his secre
tary, He would like to see Frank
Rumors Ginevan
Collisimo and good by.
Mr. Collisimo commented that the plan 
would provide better living and more 
women on the hill. He added, If there 
was anything definite, they would have had 
me go up there and poll the students or 
have a meeting with them. in astonish-- Jt icontinued on page 3
Students living in McGill (above) circulated a petition to preserve their home.
Tartan Staff Elects New Board; Saunders Named Editor-in-Chief
Great Ceasar's ghost!" says Steve Saunders,
the TARTAN's new Perry White
Photo by Ed Levine
Stephen Saunders has been elected by the 
TARTAN staff to succeed Steve Jurman as 
Editor-in-Chief for next semester. Saunders 
will be working with Gary Singer, who will 
assume the duties of News Editor and 
Shelley Burhans, who will direct the 
Features Department with David Guida. 
Steve Hamm will take over as Entertain
ment Editor.
Saunders has been Entertainment Editor, 
for the TARTAN for the last two semes
ters. He expanded the department greatly 
this semester by presenting a broader spec
trum of previews and reviews than the 
TARTAN has ever offered. The TARTAN 
has developed an excellent staff over the 
last semester, he claims. It is time now 
for it to become a first rate college news
paper. Saunders plans to work towards 
raising the level of the TARTANs intellec
tual and reporting qualities.
Gary Singer will be running the News 
Department under Saunders. Singer has 
been a very active reporter in the News 
Department. He has written extensively on
political activity on campus. He has also 
done much reporting on general campus 
affairs. As one of the few CIT or MIS 
students to serve on the TARTAN editorial 
board in recent years. Singer plans to in
clude more technologically oriented news.
He also plans to work closely with CoFeature Editors, Shelley Burhans and 
David Guida. Burhans, an English major 
and Guida, an AMSer, will be spotlighting 
specific aspects of campus life and 
managing investigative reporters. Both 
Editors hope to continue features like 
those that appeared this semester, such as 
ones on Gay Liberation and C-MAP.
Steve Hamm, a junior creative writing 
major, will take over editorship of the de
partment he has been writing for during 
the last two semesters. His reviews of local 
literary events have appeared regularly in 
the TARTAN.
Jeff Ganek, this semesters News Editor, 
resigned his post, but will remain on the 
editorial board to develope special 
projects.
Photo by Nick LardasSenate Asks Parking Fees 
Be Refunded
By Steve Jurman
The Student Senate, at its November 28 
meeting, passed a resolution calling on the 
Administration to refund in full all first 
semester parking fees.
The resolution stated that the increased 
fees which were charged for parking this 
year were for a system of guaranteed 
parking spots regulated by an expanded 
gate system. Since those gates have not yet 
been operational (due to a delay in pro
curing the control cards), the service paid 
for was not received and repayment should 
be made.
Senate chairwoman Leslie Brain de
livered the resolution to President Cyert at 
Wednesdays Student Policy Committee 
meeting. Dr. Cyert pointed out that the 
resolution was in error, in that the 
increased rates were an allocative device, 
and not for increased service. He also 
stated that the parking fee did not guaran
tee a spot; the lots are oversold on the 
continued on page 10

---------------------------------------------------

editors note
The New College (H&SS) is dead.
Two years ago that was an already trite pronouncement. The 
generous among us placed the time of death in the second semester of 
academic existence, while many thought it to have been stillborn; some 
cynics declared the gestation to have been mere hysterical pregnancy.
The reasons for failure are many and are interconnected. A new 
college is badly begun with old faculty and ideas; there appears to have 
been no real committment to the proposed experiment, and the first class 
was recruited with empty rhetoric.
The Psychology Department and faculty were oriented to a far 
different area than many students, and that orientation has since become 
even more deeply entrenched. Social Relations is indistinguishably linked 
to a highly professional graduate college.
That all pervasive air of professionalism which makes C-M U almost a 
collection of vocational schools has scarred the collective psyche of the 
H&SS faculty, who feel compelled to prove that they also can produce 
skilled professionals.
The most visible, and perhaps most injurious, flaw in the doomed 
New Colleges structure was (and remains) its Dean.
It was his refusal to allow students any real participation in decision 
making that killed the ideal of the New College as a cooperative venture. 
Students were, in a most cavalier fashion, refused admission to College 
Council meetings, to the extent of having a door physically shut in their 
faces. With such tactics unprecedented student involvement was turned to 
frustrated resignation.
The Dean has repeatedly proved his utter contempt and disdain for 
undergraduates, from simply ignoring their presence to refusing agenda 
items submitted to the Council. It was he who observed, following a 
Council vote split between students and faculty, that the students 
seemed to be voting as a bloc without considering issues.
And when those students began provoking serious dissension within 
the Council, they found themselves, through consensusin the eye of the 
beholder and mysteriously unreceived minutes, removed from the 
Council. Further, when an attempt by the Dean, through innocently and 
unintentionally conveyed impressions, to influence interim student 
appointments failed, no meetings of the College Council were held during 
that interim period.
There is no justification for a person possessing our Deans loathing 
of students to hold a position of academic authority. His resignation 
should be promptly accepted.
Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, December 5, 1972
Regardless of particular personalities, the current scheme of 
academic governance needs revision. H&SS only highlights, in the 
extreme, the potentially discordant interests present.
The students are those most subject to governance, in terms of 
curriculum, requirements, teaching and grading. Yet they have the least 
say, as judged by College Council participation, of any interest. Their right 
to a voice is measured in dollars, if in no other way.
The faculty s actions are less strictly subject to governance, but their 
interest in it is major, for their lifes work may be affected. That, and their 
unquestioned educational and professional expertise, are cogent 
arguments for their participation in governance. (In fact, tenured faculty 
and non-tenured faculty may be distinctly different interests.)
Administrators (Deans and Department Heads) have officially 
absolute academic power. But they have no compelling interest, as 
administrators, justifying any say in governance.
Deans and Department Heads should be stripped of all legislative 
powers. They should be executive officers carrying out the policies set by 
representative college councils, composed of faculty and students.
Because of their longer term interest in the University, and their 
career involvement in its policies, faculty should be represented in some 
relatively larger number than the students, perhaps i.5 or 2 to I.
It is only reasonable that policies be made by those whom they 
affect.
Steve jurman
Letters:
Editor:
The H&SS College Council has not met 
since April of 1972. There are two main 
reasons for this. 1) The Council decided 
then to make itself smaller and the Dean 
legislated that the new elections would 
take place-not in the Town Meeting as had 
been the tradition-but in the student 
government elections in November. II) It is 
my hypothesis that the purpose of the in
clusion of students in the Council was to 
prevent students from tearing down the 
door of the Deans office in 1970. That 
crisis ended in 1971, but students were 
kept on the council because there was no 
diplomatic way of removing them and 
because the so called New College ex
periments (i.e. Pass-Fail grading, the special 
Freshman year) had lost support in the 
administration and were to be purged. It 
would be good for the administration if 
students were represented during the 
change of direction. The idea was to 
replace the Experimental College with a 
College dedicated to Professionalism 
Last year the last vestiges of the New 
College were purged. The opposition, some 
students and some faculty, discovered that 
a democratic vote in the College Council 
had little effect on the policy of the 
College. The Council has no real power. In 
a special meeting of students called by the 
Dean, we were told that the faculty didnt 
want to talk about anything we wanted to 
talk about. I suppose the purpose of the 
private meeting was that the Dean could 
give us the message from the faculty with 
out any interference from the faculty
itself.
There have been no College Council 
meetings this year and this is a good 
indication of the role the Council has 
played. It is a body with a meaningless 0 
voice and vote. Its a tool of the admini
stration. I say-Fuck It.
Stephen Hamm Retired Member of H&SS College Council
Editor:
Spring Carnival is an event held annually 
on the Carnegie-Mellon University Campus.
It is one of the last remaining traditions 
still found on the campus. At one time this 
event was considered to be solely a frater
nity event. Today it is becoming more a 
campus-wide activity with both the 
fraternity and independent groups working 
together. This Spring Fest has events 
ranging from College Frisbee to (c. 1921) 
Buggy Races to Booth Building. Also, a jfc 
carnival atmosphere can be found on the 
midway.
Planning the events and the preliminary 
work takes time. The Spring Carnival 
Committee has a great need for interested 
and imaginative people, to continue this 
tradition of Spring Carnival. Your partic
ipation in Spring Carnival can keep this 
activity on campus. ^
If you wish to run any old or new event, 
or, if you have any new ideas to help 
imporve carnival please contact Thomas 
Gilbert Klopack-331-0563, 534 Island 
Avenue, McKees Rocks.Thomas Gilbert Klopack Spring Carnival Chairman
Effective immediately, the deadline for announcements is noon, and 
news items 5 PM , of the Wednesday before publication. The deadline for 
advertising is 11 AM of the Thursday before. No copy is
acceptable unless it is neatly typed or hand printed. Copy must be double 
spaced, correctly spelled , and properly paragraphed and punctuated.
Editor in chief.....................Steve Jurman
Business Manager...............Alice Bright
Special Editor........................Mina Gerall
News Editor............................Jeff Ganek
News Staff ......................Steve Correl
Anne Friedman, Laurel Felix 
Mike Hill, Greg McKenna 
Debbie Siegel, Gary Singer 
John Spalding, Brandon Dula 
Shelley Burhans, Greg Fulton 
Stacey Kimbell,Gary Bronheim 
Chris Brown, Cathy Cook
Features Editor ......................Dave Guida
Features Staff.......................Chris Infante
Ellen Steiber, Joan McCluskey 
David Stewart 
Marc Field, Craig Collins
Political Editor............................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... John Shettel 
Greg Nickel, Henry Collins 
Ric Werme, Nick Lardas 
Bruce Edelston, Carl Grefenstette 
Frank Stein,'Andrea Friedman 
Dan Goldstein
Entertainment Editor . . Steve Saunders 
Entertainment Staff . . Nonie Dempsey 
Terry Caywood, Susan Klein 
Steve Perkins, Fred Gormley 
Paula Shubock, Arnie Karr 
Stephen Hamm
Sports Editor ......................Jim Brogan
Sports Staff..............................Dan Buis
D.R. Sullivan, Jeff Englund 
Roger Geddes
Advertising Manager . . . Laura Powers
Layout..............................Becky Carrol
Karla Salvi
Copy Staff ............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs
Published every Tuesday during the aca
demic year at Cernegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
^nd Business offices in Skibo 50, CarnegieMellon University.' Telephone (412) 
682-4557.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, December 5, 1972Page 3
McGillGynecology
Photo by John ShettelKiltie Maud: View from J^inth Zrombone
by Debbie Siegel
On Sunday night, December 10, 1972, 
at 8:30 p.m. in Carnegie Music Hall, The 
Kiltie Symphony Band will perform. Dr. 
Richard Strange, Conductor, has 
commented, Every year we try to put out 
enough publicity for the campus 
community and in particular, encourage 
students to attend our concerts. Usually, 
we have a very disappointing turn out, and
1 wish we could communicate the contents 
of our program with a voice that students 
may relate to, better than mine.
As a non-music major, freshman, and 
the ninth trombone player in the band, let 
me try to give you an honest account of 
what the band is. After playing in high 
school bands, where sight reading a piece, 
often sounds like a disaster, it was truly 
rewarding to hear a balanced and har
monious sound on the first readings of 
many pieces. There are many individual 
players who display precision and mellow 
-tonal quality, so the band can express the 
finer points in a piece of music without 
overplaying it to the point of growing tired 
of it.
For an example of excellent ensemble 
work, one should hear the ensemble of 
three trumpets and one euphonium in Con
certo Grosso by Wagner. Their inter, pretation of this work fills up the room 
with an almost bell-like quality. In the near 
future, the band will be cutting a record of 
Concerto Grosso. In Fourth Stream by 
Irving Kane, containing just about every 
kind of music from rock, jazz, waltzes, and 
Baroque, to the whistles of a MOOG 
synthesizer, the listener may be totally 
confused, but also involved in the many 
contrasts which this piece provides. There 
are many solos and it appears to be much 
more intricate than the majority of rock 
pieces which were never meant for the 
concert band. As many people seem to
Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For assistance and information
on a confidential basis . . 
us  we will help you.
COLLEGE 
CAMPUSES 
FOR 
WOMEN'S 
RIGHTS 
(215) 449-2006
(215) 449-2007
(anytime)
call
have preconceived ideas that a band has to 
play Sousa marches, you will not be 
disappointed when you hear the Elegy and 
Fanfare March by Roger Nixon, which I 
think measures up to any old Sousa march 
in its rhythm and vibrant sounds. It was 
rather surprising when Dr. Strange, in the 
democratic way, let us vote for some of the 
pieces we wanted to play. So, you may say 
that many of the pieces are representative 
of their appeal to students. In other words, 
Id imagine that what most struck us might 
also please your tastes and unless you hate 
all music, there should be something to 
please your ears.
On April 8th, the band will be playing 
at Carnegie Hall in New York City. It 
seems a pity that there are very few con
cert bands left in the United States except 
on the college level, and too few people 
have experienced the fullness of that band 
sound. Being a member of a group, capable 
of producing such tones is a unique ex
perience for me and for the others that 
share it with me. Put it this way, what have 
you got to lose? The men should look 
lovely in their kilts, its free, and youre 
sure to enjoy some of the music. Give us a 
chance to share an experience with you.
BETO'S PIZZA
Pizza, Hot Hoagies
11 pm^l am M.F, 4 pm-1 am S-S
682-8656
RUGSfor Pre
wttti yur ID Card
1000 9x12 Russ 
SIS S19 S29 S49
ah* facH, 1*1 K 11>19% Do 
 WMOtf SAU fUMMTUM 
MMOOMS, lIVINGCOOMSw ETC 
AVAILABLE AT NCAMY SHOWROOMS
Phirtw Omk% Cfcain,
CHASES
S4M WALNUT STRUT, SHA9TSM
OFN DAILY 10 am. to * p^n. 
(Sotvrday 10 .m. to 5 pjL)
. M 411*109
PREGNANT? - Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC, . . .%
NATIONAL} FAMILY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
Call: (215) 457-4139 Philadelphia, Pa.
continued from page 1
ment he said, You guys on the TARTAN 
are pretty fast, I only heard about this 
yesterday. He then phoned Mr. Ginevan 
to find out if what he said was all right. 
Barry Hallman, President of the MDC, 
commented, Sometimes those administra
tors are pretty hard to pin down.
The entire problem seems to be that of 
McGill residents protesting future prob
lems, while administrators have few, if any 
plans down on paper or anywhere else. At 
the MDC meeting of Wednesday, Oct. 18, 
Mr. Ginevan stated there were still no def
inite plans.
The McGill residents might well be justi
fied if the plans were real, for they might 
be forced to move into higher priced dorms 
either before or after the Christmas break, 
so that approximately fifty people could 
move into much higher priced, newly re
modeled apartments next fall. As one resi
dent put it, Moving in the middle of the 
year would be a real pain in the neck.
(As the TARTAN went to press, we were assured by Housing Director William Dillon that no one would be moved over the semester break. The earliest that renovation could begin is summer; Mr. Dillon is confident  that such work will take place at that time. - ed.)
continued from page 1
Affairs Office will be billed for the number 
of office visits by CMU students during the 
month. The list sent by the physicians will 
include the names and dates of the visits 
only. This is to protect the Universitys 
interest in being responsible for only the 
visits of eligible CMU students. The student 
will receive a bill showing that the fee for 
the office visit has been paid by CMU. The 
bill will also indicate items for which the 
individual must remit payment.
It is important to emphasize that this is 
an experimental program, entered into by 
the University to determine future Univer
sity support for medical services in this 
area. We hope that this procedure will pro
vide an accurate picture of the level of 
student demand.
The information included in this article 
will be available at Skibo desk, the Student 
Health Service, and Morewood desk. If you 
have further questions about the program, 
contact Marty Lisberger, president of 
Womens Dorm Council, or Susan 
Christian, Student Activities, Skibo 
103.Burglaries
continued from page 1
Ron Taylor, security chief, believed this 
suspect might be responsible for the rob
beries that have occurred when rooms were 
also robbed while people were in bed 
asleep.
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMUs Convenient Headquarters 
fot Hardware
Desk Lamps * Key Service * Artist Brushes 
* Hot Plates ^ Poster Paints * School Supplies
3606 Forbes Avenue OAKLAND Phone 621*0923
Graduate Scholarships 
for Jewish Social Welfare Careers
Interviews will be held for seniors interested in 
exploring graduate social welfre and field work place
ment leading to an executive career with Jewish 
Federations.
Scholarships for tuition and stipened for living ex
penses are available for those who can qualify.
For further information and appointment for oncampus interviews call Elayne Rosen# United Jewish 
Federation . . . 681-8000.
EXAM
SNACKS
December 13,14,15 and 17 
KILTIE CAFE & MOREWOOD CAFETERIA
For All Those On Food Contract

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, December 5, 1972
Hockey Team Still Unbeaten B-Baiiers stopped
by David Girdany
On Tuesday, November 21, the CMU 
hockey team traveled to the Kirk Nevin 
Arena in Greensburg, to battle a tough St. 
Vincent hockey team. The Tartans played 
their best game of the year in all respects 
but scoring; the St. Vincent goaltender was 
superb in the nets, thwarting chance after 
chance as the Tartans outskated their op
ponents to earn those chances. The final 
score was 2 to 2, a credit to the St. Vincent 
goalie.
Just as in the first two games, CMU 
started off slowly, but then gathered mo
mentum and began to control the game. 
(This is not to say that St. Vincent has an 
inferior team; they have a good team, but 
the Tartans are better and should have 
won.) In the second half of the first period, 
lightning struck CMU. Goaltender Jeff Hart 
stopped a shot, but he was pushed back 
into the net, and a goal was awarded to the 
enemy. Exactly twenty seconds later, the 
opponents capitalized on a two on one 
break and the Tartans found themselves 
down, 2 to nothing. Not much later, CMU 
pulled within one, as Mike Kenworthy 
converted on a pass from his linemate, 
Mike Gallaway, while CMU was a man 
short. The first period ended, as did the
IMS
With only the finals remaing in the 
3-Man Volleyball season, it appears as 
though the Betas cannot blow this one, 
even if they try. Since a BTP team won 
each of the seni-final games the trophy 
already belongs to them.
To open up the playoffs, SN took the 
Pass league, PKT took the Serve league, 
Beta A took the Carry league and the Beta 
Trogens copped the Set league.
After the quarter finals, the semis 
pitted BTP A against a rather weak SN 
team and the Trogens against a tough PKT 
Snuff. The A team won handily, but the 
Trogens lost the first game to Phi Kap 
before turning it on to earn a trip to the 
finals.
This just about wraps up fist semester 
IMs with E.J. Birdy watching from his 
hospital bed in Massachusettes. However, 
basketball gets off to an early start next 
semester, followed by a host of 
activits.
second, with no further scoring, although 
Rich Eastman brought the fans to their 
feet with a wicked shot that caught the 
-inside of one of the goalposts in the second 
period.
In the third period, play continued as in 
the first two, with CMU controlling the 
action but being continually frustrated by 
the opponents goalie. Finally though, the 
Tartans broke through the opposition, as 
Mike Kenworthy passed back to Leroy 
Bauer on the left point and then tipped in 
the subsequent shot. This inspired the Tar
tans, who became more and more aggres
sive, but they could not score again.
The defense looked good in this game, 
as did the entire CMU team, but one 
cannot discredit the St. Vincent 
goaltender.
On Sunday, November 26, the Tartans 
faced the Mountaineers of West Virginia in 
an exhibition match at Alpine Arena. The 
Tartans won easily, 6 to 2, as Mikg Ken
worthy tallied five times for the victors. 
Pichai scored the other goal.
Scoring summary of the St. Vincent 
game:
Period 1: 1-SV: Hoenfeld (unassisted); 
2-SV: Doerr (Morris, Krull); 3-CMU: Ken
worthy (Gallaway)
Period 2: no scoring.
Period 3: 4-CMU: Kenworthy (Bauer)
Grapplers Open
Carnegie-Mellons wrestling season 
opens here tonight against Pitts B Team at 
7:30 in Skibo Gym. Coach Paul Steva leads 
CMUs newest varsity sportsmen into their 
third season with a team dominated by 
freshmen and sophomores. Although only 
four lettermen are back, some 15 candi
dates have been working out in preseason 
practice, and the team is looking to better 
last years 1-9-1 record. Leading the return
ees are co-captains Vic Rogers, a junior 
who may well take a PAC title in the 167 
lb. weight class, and Clyde Ligons, a senior 
who is expected to perform at 1771bs. An
other letterman, Mike Veltri, should be a 
strong contender in the 118 lb. class. Steve 
Etkin, last years winningest wreslter will 
not wrestle this semester.
The match with the Pitt team has a 
special significances for the Tartans be
cause a win, or even a strong showing 
would indicate that the Tartan grapplers, 
after two building seasons, have really ar
rived.
Cut out this coupon. And cut the cost 
of roast beef down to the cost of hamburger*
I
I
II Buy 2 Arby's ~ IHI COUPON VALID
Roast Beef DEC. 5 thru
Sandwiches DEC. 9, 1972
| (or only $1 Good only at Oakland Arbys
Arbys. The 4 hour Sandwich 
is only 
5 minutes away.
Roger Geddes
It just goes to show you that a good 
little man connot beat a fair tall man! 
This was Coach Rudy Yaksichs response 
after his Carnegie-Mellon Tartans lost their 
season opener to Thiel College, 85-70, last 
Saturday at Thiel.
The overall hight of the Tomcats was 
just too overpowering for the fast, hustling, 
but small Tartans. The tallest plaid starter 
was Mark Donato, a 63 sophomore, while 
Thiel had three men over that range with a 
66 center.
Although Thiel dominated CMU under 
the boards, the amount of field goals for 
each team was about equal. The story of 
the game, however, was that the over
anxious Tartans committed almost 3 times 
as many fouls as the Tomcats. Leading the 
Tartans was Gary Rentsch with 24 points, 
followed by JJ Jordan with 13.
Twice in the game the Tartans rallied 
from large deficits. At one point in the first 
half, Thiel led by 12 but the Partans, using 
their free-lance offense and pressing de
fense, overcame this and pulled to within 
two at halftime, 38,-36. In the second half, 
Thiels lead peacked at 24 points, but CMU 
ran out of time before they could reduce it 
beyond 15.
The Skibos play at home Wednesday 
against Case, Saturday against Oberlin, and 
finish the semester Monday at Bethany.
Swimmers Dumped 
By Lock Haven
CMUs Swimming Team was thumped 
Saturday by a strong Loch Haven team at 
Skibo Gym.. Out of the thirteen events, 
CMU captured firsts in only 3 of them. The 
Tartans got off to a good start, winning the 
400 yd. Medley to grab a 7-0 lead. In the 
1000 yard, we continued our winning ways 
with Pete Hoysan swimming a first place, 
turning it on in the last 150 yards. This put 
CMU ahead, 12-4. The Plaid did not fare so 
well in the 200 yd. freestyle, losing by 50 
yards. This left the score at 15-10. Loch 
Haven con tinued to close the gap through 
the 50 yd free and the 200 yard and then 
moved in for the kill in the diving competion.
CMU took a second in diving alothough 
Patti Dyke would have taken first, but she 
must dive in exhibition for a year since she 
was a transfer student from Allegheny.
In the 200 yard butterfly, The Tartans 
took second and third to stay in the 
contest, 33-28, but couldnt capture a first 
until the 200 yard backstroke, won by 
McNerry. . Once again the gap was nar
rowed to 43-36.
The meet was won in the last four 
events,500 free, 200 breast, Optional div
ing, and the 400 free. CMU lost these four 
by a score of 24-10 which provided the 
large margin ov victory for Loch Haven, 
67-46.
Post Season All-Stars
Four players from the CMU Grid Tar
tans have been named to the AllPresidents 
Athletic Conference team. Offensively, 
Split-end Brian Carlock and tackle John 
Sabol were named. The defensive standounts were linebacker Ray Terza and end 
Art Hunkele.
Terza, a senior from Duquesne where he 
was an All-WPIAL linebacker, was a fouryear letterman and this year tri-captained 
the Tartans.
Hunkele, who stood only 58 tall, 
made his presence felt on the gridiron, 
causing four fumbles and recovering the 
same.
Sabol, the third of the four-letter men 
went both way for most of the season, 
doubling as an outside linebacker, where he 
spent his three previous seasons.
Carlock, only a junior, was a unanimous 
choice for the honor, leading the PAC in 
receptions this year with 25 for 446yards 
and 3 touchdowns. Too small to play 
college football, Carlock often found him
self doulbe-teamed,yet still left defenders 
talking to themselves.
Peter Moses,CMUs player-coach, was 
named Most Valuable Player for the 1972
PAC Soccer Team Selections. Mike Smith 
was also named to the 13 man squad, with 
Dan Streyle receiving Honorable mention.
Moses, a 22 year-old junior from King
ston,Jamaica, led the Tartans for the third 
straight year. Playing center forward, his 
exceptional dribbling enabled him to lead 
CMU in scoring this year.
Smith, another junior, from Monongahela, has established himself as an 
outstanding defensive back in three seasons 
as a letterman. He was one of six defensive 
backs picked to the squad.
Sophomore Streyle has earned letters on 
both offense and defense. This past season, 
however, he played defense and emerged as 
one of the leading backs in the league.
THIS WEEKS CONTEST: 
TUESDAY-Wrestling vs. Pitt, H, 7:30 
WEDNESDAY -Basketball vs. Case, H, 
8:00
Swimming vs Bethany, A, 7:30 
SATURDAY-Basketball vs. Oberlin, H, 
8:00
Wrestling vs. Thiel, A, 2:00
Swimming vs. Thiel, A, 2:00 
MONDAY-Basketball vs. Bethany, A, 
8:00
ight 1971 Marketing & Mf
4.^( a
I couldn't get King Kong to give me 
a whirl. But when I turned on to 
Akadama Plum(thelip-smacking grape 
wine with the natural plum flavor) all 
the College Men started turning on to fiuM 
me. Thank you. -Akadama Plum, for 
turning the prom giom into the bees
Akadama PlumThe toast of the campus.
imported by Suntory International. Los Angeles. Calif

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, December 5, 1972Page 5
Announcements:
On December 6 at 11:00 am, Selma Burke
will speak in the Wherrett Room at CMU. 
Ms. Burke, Sculpture Coordinator for Car
negie Institute and sculpture instructor at 
the Institute, provided the impetus for the 
establishment of the Selma Burke Art Cen
ter, 6118 Penn Circle South, East Liberty. 
This Center is devoted to encouraging 
Black artists by providing them with a gal
lery in which to show their works.
Ms. Burke's appearance is being spon
sored by Spirit and the Fine Arts 
Department. .
Rudolf Serkin, one of the world's greatest
pianists will return to perform with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra after an 
absence of five years on December 8, 9, 10 
at Heniz Hall subscription concerts.
Music Director and Conductor William 
Steinberg has chosen an all-Beethoven pro
gram. Mr. Serkin is famous for interpreta
tions of this composer. The program con
sists of the ''Lenore'' Overture No. 3 in C 
Major, the Fifth Piano Concerto in E-Flat 
Major and the Symphony No. 3, also in 
E-Flat Major.
A special evening of great music has been
scheduled in St. Paul's Cathedral, Oakland, 
for Sunday evening, December 10, at 8:30 
pm. The event marks the tenth anniversary 
of the dedication of the now world-famous 
Beqkenrath Organ. The concert is free and 
open to the public.
The main event will be the performance 
of Mozart's ''Requiem'' by the Cathedral 
Choir, directed by Paul Koch, City Organ
ist of Pittsburgh and Organist and Director 
of Music at St. Paul's, with Richard Nussbaumer at the organ. Mr. Nussbaumer is 
Associate Organist at the Cathedral.
SPIRIT sponsors a Canned Food Drive for
Needy Families on Saturday, December 9. 
Donations are accepted from everyone. 
Please bring donations to the Spirit House, 
5170 Margaret Morrison between 2:00 and 
5:30. The food collected will be delivered 
to the Y Office on Centre Avenue to be 
given out to families of need. Any 
questions contact Tony McKay.
Victoria De Los Angeles, internationally
recognized as one of the greatest living 
singers, will present a concert of arias and 
Spanish songs on Wednesday, December 6 
at Carnegie Music Hall at 8:30 pm under 
the auspices of the International Poetry 
Forum. Born in Barcelona where she made 
her debut at twenty, Miss De Los Angeles 
subsequently appeared in operas and con
certs in Spain and Portugal. Her victory in 
Geneva's International Competition drew 
the attention of the musical world.
Take in a good show before finals. T.H.P.
Enterprises presents: ''Reach Out and Take 
It," an oratorio in the rock idiom, De
cember 7-8 at UACM Building, Fifth and 
Beliefield in Oakland, 8:30 pm.
The Women's Committee of the Museum
of Art, Carnegie Institute will open its an
nual Christmas Tree exhibition to the pub
lic at noon on December 8. The trees will 
be displayed in Architectural Hall of the 
Institute from 10:00 am to 5:00 pm each 
day from the opening until January 3, 
1973.
CMU Food Service presents a Christmas
dinner on Tuesday, December 12 from 
4:15 to 7 pm. Available at Morewood and 
Skibo, the full course gala meal features a 
choice of New England lobster or Delmonico steak.
The Hewlett Gallery in the College of Fine
Arts is featuring the work of woodcrafterarchitect George. Nakashima until Decem
ber 14. The Gallery is open from 9 am to 
4:30 pm weekdays.
Gay Students at Tech, a new group on
campus, will hold an organizational meet
ing Thursday, December 7, at 4:30 in 
Room 46, Skibo. The meeting is open to 
everyone in the campus community. The 
purpose of the organization is to 1) Edu
cate the campus and the general public 
concerning homosexuality, and 2) improve 
the lot of the gay person politically and 
socially. The first meeting will feature a 
question-answer session with gay activists 
from the Pittsburgh area. Come ask and 
we'll answer.
The Women's Committee of the Museum
of Art, Carnegie Institute, and the Asian 
Studies Program of the University of Pitts
burgh will co-sponsor a lecture on "Clas
sical Art in Thailand" which will be pre
sented by Prince Subhadradis Diskul, one 
of Thailand's leading scholars and patrons 
in classical art and archeology, as well as a 
member of her royal family.
The lecture will be held on Wednesday, 
December 6, at 3:30 pm in the Green 
Room on the second floor of the Music 
Hall Foyer at Carnegie Institute and will be 
illustrated with color slides to show impor
tant aspects of Thailand art.
The Economics Department will be offer
ing two new courses this semester. 73-458 
Benefit-Cost Analysis will focus on asses
sing projects outside of the market place. 
The instructor will be Professor L. Lave. 
73-459 Resource Economics will focus on 
questions such as forecasting the demand 
for electricity, and the environmental ef
fects of generating it. Prerequisites: A good 
background in microeconomics. The in
structor will be Professor E. Seskinn.
Student Senate Health Fund Loans up to
$200 can be obtained for medical use including pregnancy problems.
Contact Susan Peters, 421-5513 or Box 
30 Baker Hall.
Applications for the Vira I. Heinz Travel
Award are now available in the Financial 
Aid Office, 210 Warner Hall. This grant, 
established in 1967, will enable a woman 
student to study and travel abroad between 
her junior and senior years. The purpose of 
this $1,500 award "is to have an articulate 
and perceptive young lady gain first-hand 
knowledge of international understanding 
and share her experience with other 
members of the college community upon 
her return."
Junior women interested in being con
sidered for this award must submit an ap
plication to the Financial Aid Office by 
February 7, 1973. A winner ad three al
ternates will be selected and announced 
before the end of February.
The application includes sections on 
itiTierarym, budget, course of study, and 
reasons for desiring to participate in the 
program. Financial need will not be a 
criterion. However, if it becomes a factor, 
the applicant should discuss the situation 
with the Director of.Financial Aid.
Jewelery Sale: sponsored by Panhelienic
Council. Come and see the display of beau
tiful jewelery and unique .gift ideas for 
Christmas shoppers. Tuesday* December 
5th from 10 am to 5 pm inJLhe C-Tower 
lobby of Morewood .Gardens (near_Lhe Cor
ner Drugstore.)
APOWE (Association of Professional Office
Women in Education), is sponsoring a 
Weight Watchers series of lectures. These 
will meet every Friday, starting Dec. 1, in 
the Multipurpose Room in Hunt Library, 
(entrance from Frew Street). Flyers have 
been sent out to staff and faculty but the 
problem is getting the information to the 
students. Everyone is welcome male and 
female. The registration fee is $3.00 and 
weekly class is $2.00.
CMU's Kiltie Symphony Band will give a
free concert in the Carnegie Music Hall, 
Sunday, Dec. 10, at 8:30 p.m. This will be 
the Band's first formal presentation of the 
year. In April, 1973, the Band will con
clude a week's tour with its fifth consecu
tive Carnegie Hall concert in New York. In 
its previous Carnegie Hall concerts the 
Kiltie Band has received consistently 
favorable reviews.
Graduate Fellowships for Black Americans
are available in 207 Warner Hall. Applica
tions must be completed by January 5,
1973. Black faculty members, graduate stu
dents, college seniors and other black Americans who can give evidence of intent 
to enter into academic careers in the Uni
ted States are eligible to apply. The fellow
ships are limited to persons who wish to 
study full time for the Ph.D.
"The Young Contemporaries," a judged
intercollegiate exhibition featuring selected 
student work from seven western Penn
sylvania area colleges, is the next show 
scheduled for the CMU Students' Gallery, 
5200 Forbes Avenue. The exhibition will 
take olace from Monday, Nov. 27 through 
Saturday, Dec. 9. The Gallery is open to 
the public Tuesday through Friday from
11 am to 8 pm and Saturday from 11 am 
.to 5 pm.
Upperclass H&SS students in divisions
other than H&SS should pick up evaluation 
forms in the Dean's Office MM 107.
The Gallery Christinas Sale, featuring gift
items in every medium, plus a One-Woman 
Show are the next exhibitions scheduled 
for the CMU Students' Gallery, 5200 
Forbes Avenue. The concurrent exhibitions 
will take place from Monday, Dec. 11, 
through Saturday, Dec. 23. For these 
exhibitions only, the Gallery will be open 
to the public daily from 11 am to 6 pm.
B'nai B'rith Hillel Jewish University Center
will hold a Bagel and Lox Brunch Sunday, 
December 10at 11 am at Chatham College, 
Mellon Center, Conover Room. Speaker to 
be announced. Cost: $1.00.
Each year, for six weeks of the summer,
Augustana College in Rock Island, Illinois, 
offers to students in the United States and 
Canada an opportunity to study in Spain. 
The students live and attend classes at the 
University of Madrid. Plans are already in 
progress for the 9th Summer School in 
Spain, 1973, and all persons interested 
should contact Dr. A Doreste, Augustana 
College, Rock Island., Illinois, 61201, for 
complete information.
The Unicorn in the Garden (after the
Thurber fable) arid The Man on the Bear
skin Rug will flank a number of operatic 
exerpts from the standard repertory when 
the CMU Opera^ Workshop presents an In
formal Evening of Opera on Tuesday, De
cember 5, at 8:30 pm, and on Sunday, 
December 10 at 2:30 pm in.the Skibo 
Ballroom. Admission free.
An Audio-Visual training program lasting
one session has been organized in Baker 
Hall 139 for Thursday, December 7 from 
6:30 to 9:30 pm. This A.V. training session 
will include the use of all of the following 
projectors: 16 mm, super and regular 8 
mm, carousel, lantern slide, filmstrip, over
head and opaque. It will also include the 
following audio equipment: tape-recorders: 
mono, stereo and casette; phonographs: 
mono and stereo. This session will include 
the basic operations of video tape 
recorders.
Phi Tau Gamma, the junior honorary, is
making plans for a series of lectures on a 
variety of subjects that interest you. If 
there is something you want to know more 
about from someone who is really into it, 
please send your suggestions to: Phi Tau 
Gamma, c/o Terry Siemon, 5D3 Morewood 
Gardens.
A booklet called "Summer Jobs in Federal
Agancies" is available to students in Scaife 
Hall 110. It outlines specific job opportuni
ties for the summer of 1973. Some dead
lines are as early as January 15, and some 
jobs require examinations.
The Chatham-Carnegie Mellon German
Film Series presents "Der Zerbrochene 
Krug" in Porter Hall 100 on Wednesday, 
December 6, at 7:45 pm. The 1937 drama 
features a superb performance by Emil 
Jannings.
B'nai B'rith Hillel, Jewish University
Center will hold Sabbath services on Friday 
evening, December 8 at 7:30 pm in the 
Chapel (room 39) of Skibo Hall at CMU. 
Following services will be an Oneg Shabbat 
with discussion, refreshments and social 
hour.
Boogie! December 8, 4:30-12, Starring
DAZE & SASSAFRASS. FREE! 
Co-sponsored by TGIF and WDC.
Classified Ads
Draft Counseling provided by Attorney
without charge. Sponsored by B'rrai B'rith 
Hillel Foundation, 315 S. Belief ield, 3rd 
floor. Every Tuesday evening 7* to 8:30 
pm. 621-8875.
New Legal Service for Students: If you are
a student with a legal related problem and 
need legal counseling, call STUDENT 
HELP CENTER, 683-2133.
Skis: Brand New, Never Used Kastle Cmt
60 fiberglass skis. 195 cm Salomon 40 step 
in bindings Gipron Italian racing poles. 
Price $125 complete. Value $200. Phone 
621-3679.
Have problems? Need help? Call the HELP
CENTER-683-2133-for information and 
referral for legal, medical, drug and emo
tional problems. 24 hour answering 
service-683-2133.
Compact refrigerators and other appliances
for rent. Low amperage (1.4 amps), 
approved for dormitories. Share with a 
roommate or a friend-be prepared for the 
long study sessions ahead-eat and drink 
better. Call 279-7951 after 7 p.m.
Canoe Kayak and Sailing Craft: Buy a
canoe or kayak for Xmas, from $69.00 to 
$300.00; free paddies, lessons, river trip 
with purchase. 701 Wood St., Wilkinsburg, 
371-4802.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, December 5, 1972
ENTERTAINMENT
Interview _
Balada
Films and Television
Play Jt Js Jt Cays
by Frederick Gormley
The Kings Court theatre reports one 
significant thing about its current feature, 
Play It As It Lays-people tend to ask for 
their money back. The reviewer for the 
Pittsburgh Press reports one significant 
thing about the film, too: He didnt 
understand it, therefore, it was no good 
(understand the logic). Pauline Kael, 
writing in the New Yorker magazine 
reports one significant thing about Play It 
As It Lays-she found it absurdly chic, to 
the point of laughing at the ending.
I report one significant thing about 
Play It As It Lays-I liked the film very 
much.
To make any sense out of the film, first 
of all, one must have read the book. The 
novel is a masterpiece of design; pages go 
by with one line only, situated in the mid
dle of all the white space just so, with 
mesmerizing effect. The book is sparely 
written, with words that wouldnt faze a 
bright ten-year-old. Yet one could read the 
book through and set it aside with a so 
what attitude, which is precisely what I 
did. The first time throught. But that 
damned paperback, lying beside the bed 
started playing games with me-1 stared and 
it would stare me down. After a day of 
wondering what points I could possibly 
have missed that Joan Didion was trying to 
make, I picked the book up, and on every 
page was the thrust of the novel-the answer 
to everything is nothing. Therein lies the 
beauty and the rot.
Existentialism as a philosophy is white 
mans stuff-the religion of the spoiled, 
bored uninvolved brat who has never lived 
any closer to the desperation ghettos are 
madeof than newspaper articles about 
riots. I personally embrace existential 
philosophy to a limited extent, for it is in 
direct conflict with my activist 
consciousness. It is chic lavish philosophy, 
this existentialism of today, bastard second 
cousin once-removed to the thoughts of 
Thoreau, so difficult to grasp at first, but 
so easy to say, Hey, yeah, thats me! to. 
So ends my liberal-conscience) tirade 
against myself.
It does no good to say to the reviewer 
from the Press that there is a book the 
movie was based on (he never mentions the 
book in the article, therefore, I assume he 
has never read it or even heard of it) and 
that the filmization is quite true to the 
novel. Maria Wyeth is in a sanitarium, she 
may be mad, but she says if they think she 
is mad, then let them. What has put her 
there, directly, is the fact she let her closest 
friend die in her lap of an overdose of 
Seconal, watching him swallow every pill. 
Maria is a cult heroine-her ex-husband 
made an art film of her which is the rage of 
the film underground, and from that, put 
her in grade B motorcycle films, plunging 
her into Hollywood The Way It Is Now. 
And Hollywood TWIIN stinks of rotting 
peddled flesh, vacuous minds, and bank
rupt ideals. Maria is a sensitive person, and 
somehow suspects that everything equals
zero in the end; she travels freeways be
cause they make her think she is going 
somewhere, while she is not. She is sure of 
two things her father taught her: Life is a 
crap game, it goes as it lays, and you keep 
playing, and usually there is a rattlesnake 
under every rock in the desert. You must
by Stephen Hamm
Leonardo Balada, an Associate Professor 
of Music and Composition in the Music 
Department, is the composer of Maria 
Sabina and directed its presentation at the 
Carnegie Music Hall on December fourth in 
conjunction with the International Poetry 
Forum. He is a graduate of the Barcelona 
Concervatoria and the Julliard School of 
New York. His best known compositions 
are Sinfonia en Negro, and Guernica, 
which he dedicated to Pablo Picasso. 
Maria Sabina has been performed in 
Madrid, Louisville, San Francisco, and New 
York, and will be recorded by the Lousiville Symphony Orchestra.
The TARTAN interview took place 
before the Pittsburgh performance of 
Maria Sabina.
TARTAN: How did Mana Sabina come about?
Balada: Camilo Cela, one of the popular 
Spanish writers, wrote a long poem about 
the woman who is a priestess of a mush
room cult in Mexico. He came to New 
York in 1966 and I met him there. He 
mentioned that he had written the poem 
and that he wanted me to put it to music. I 
was interested but I was doing something 
else then, so a year later I called him up 
and we decided that when I went to Spain 
that summer I would look at the text.
read the book; I cannot make the film 
easier for you.
Frank Perry directed this. I am of mixed 
opinion concerning Perrys work. David 
and Lisa is acknowledged to be a very 
sensitive film, In Cold Blood was just as 
fine. Last Summer, I personally liked (It 
said something I always knew-teenagers are 
a vicious corrupt lot, generally); Doc was 
grotesque, and Diary of A Mad House
wife was so technically sloppy as to in
clude the shadow of a boom mike in a key 
scene. As I have said, Perry was very faith
ful to Didions novel. I do object to his use 
of color, I would have thought black-andwhite more appropriate but his camera and 
sound artiness is correct. It seems the ma
jor criticism of the film is that it is pre
tentious. The movie borrows all from the 
novel-if there is pretention, then it is in the 
book (and Joan Didion can be superpretentious). The acting is so right-Tuesday 
Weld aptly conveys subtle shadings of a 
woman gone sane (or mad) in a world that 
is decidedly mad. She deserved the best 
actress award at the Venic Film Festival, 
for she is very near perfection. Tony Per
kins is perfection, in his role as B.Z., her 
friend who hates games and decides to
quit. He can get away with a line like, She 
has these very--copious--menstruations . . ., and live through, Weve 
both been out there where nothing is. Has 
he ever really done any role injustice? May
be while I wasnt looking ...
 Play It As It Lays is not for the 
uninitiated, and certainly not for film re^ 
viewers who never even knew that the film 
was very faithful to the book. Or that there 
. was a book. > \ . - 7,,
So you wrote it in 1967?
Yes. It was the summer and I went to 
where he was working in Spain. I read it 
and liked it and I started working with 
him. It took two years to write. The one 
that was done in New York is 90 minutes 
long. It took the whole evening. The one 
we are doing here is about half as long. But 
its well edited and it makes sense in the 
shortened form.
What kind of presentation is Maria Sabina ?
Well, its not an oratorio and its not a 
cantata either because it doesnt quite fit 
that form. We decided to make up a new 
term. We cajl it a Tragifonia or a 
Symphonic Tragedy. The poem is tragic: 
the woman is hanged for witchcraft. The 
performance has the form of a tragic drama 
also. The people of the town are the chorus 
which demands Maria Sabinas death. Maria 
Sabina is the dramatic character. So, we 
invented the term Symphonic Tragedy 
to describe the combination of drama with 
chorus and orchestra.
What kind of theme are you working with in Maria Sabina?
Maria Sabina is a Mexican priestess but we 
treat the problem not as a Mexican one but 
as a universal problem. The problem is one 
where people think they can do justice by 
hanging a woman because they think that 
she is a sinner. We show that people are not 
capable of judging and that it is an impossi
bility for man to do justice. The people are 
fickle. Sometimes they want to hang her 
and other times they venerate her becuase 
of her magic. Maria Sabina goes through 
changes too. Sometimes she is mystical and 
spiritual and other times she is earthy and 
almost vulgar. Thats why we had to cut 
the text in Spain. So its a universal theme 
where people think they can judge right 
and wrong which is never possible.
You mentioned cutting the text in Spain. Is there an official government line that artists must abide by?
Not really a line. There is censorship by the 
church and by the government. The church 
watches out for immorality and the govern
ment objects to mention of the King and 
DeGaulle. We put Maria Sabina on in 
Madrid and New York in 1970. About two 
days before it was to be performed in 
Madrid I got a letter from the Ministry of 
Information and Tourism which was spon
soring the opera festival. The letter said 
that because the text was unacceptable to 
the government and because the author 
didnt agree to cut any of it, the perfor
mance was cancelled. Finally they cut a 
couple of things and kept some of the 
things that were important to Cela and the 
show went on.
This was the first performance in Spain?
Yes, and it was very interesting because 
during the first performance there was a 
disturbance in the audience. People were 
shouting; half of them shouting, Out! 
and the other half saying Bravo! The 
hecklers objected to the text and were 
shocked by the music. The two sides 
wanted to fight. I had to stop the concert 
for five minutes because of the noise.
What was the reaction in New York?
It was completely positive there. There was 
no problem with the text and the people 
were familiar with that kind of music. We 
thought of having the real Maria Sabina 
come up to New York for the first perfor
mance and introducing her after the show 
was over. But she is a crazy woman and 
you never know what she will say. I think 
she is under the influence of her own 
mushrooms.
Ive heard that you are in the process of writing a new symphony.
Yes. I finished it a couple of days ago. Its 
called the Steel Symphony and its inspired 
by the steel production that goes on in 
Pittsburgh. A fellow from U.S. Steel took 
me to the mills and showed me around so I 
heard the sounds that come from the steel 
making. The work itself does not try to 
portray a steel mill but it takes some of the 
sounds as the main ideas. I work them 
freely into a symphonic form. It has a very 
free form and a very free sound.
THE ACTIVITIES BOARD
presents
S.T.A.G. Experimental
A collection of shorts by college students 
(imagine!) on a wide variety of subjects.
DECEMBER t 7 and 9:30 p.m.
IN DOHERTY 2210 
50< with AB Card

---------------------------------------------------

Record Review
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, December 5, 1972-Pac
Journey Through The Past
by Terry Caywood
Upon the release of After the Goldrush, Neil Young began to build a myth 
.around himself. He had composed some of 
the finest music of that year, and that 
album was among the best produced up to 
that time. Next came the CSNY alliance 
thaf saturated the AM airways. As the 
group corralled their efforts into separate 
stalls, the myth grew to legend, and the 
Neil Young Bootleg became hot stuff. Of 
the better known and best produced, the 
February 14th, 1971 concert in L.A. 
(entitled Live at Sugar Mountain on 
some, and Im Glad You All Came Down 
on others) brought to a limited number of 
fans nearly an entire album of new and 
exciting Young. The illegality of it all 
sparked a deeper excitement and the Super 
Neil image coalesced.
But then came Harvest. The release 
date of January 1972 had been pushed 
back from the original late summer 71 
expected release, and as a result, much of 
the material was a bit stale. Some of the 
numbers were of the classic Neil Young 
essence, but these were grossly exploited 
(Old Man, Heart of Gold). Some were 
the simple acoustic side we had known 
from the Springfield and bootleg perfor
mances (Needle And The Damage 
Done). Electricity jumped from Ala
bama and Words. The disasterously 
over-orchestrated material disappointed 
many, and two of the nicest of the bootleg, 
Journey Through The Past and See The 
Sky About To Rain (hauntingly reminicent of Buffalo Springfields In The Hour 
Of Not Quite Rain?) were not there. Well, 
hopefully next album ...
But heres the next album: Journey 
Through The Past. Original Soundtrack 
Recordings ... A Film By Neil Young, 
says the cover. (I thought there was some
thing missing!) The film must contain the 
linking thread to tie together the fourteen 
cuts laid out on the double album set be
cause the package contains a surprising lack 
of continuity. The hard core Neil Young 
fans, of which 1 consider myself a member, 
might delight in this album, as it often 
brings the listeners right into the studio to 
hear the development of the songs. The 
Beatles (particularly Lennon) tried to do 
this on Let It Be by releasing a three 
record set of nothing but studio sessions, 
but Phil Spector got a hold of it and 
patched it all together. Neil Young might 
be doing just that, but I rather think hes 
instead feeling a need to communicate on a 
more basic level to his audience than was 
attempted before. The film medium often 
enhances audio effects, and my guess that 
Young is trying to define himself and his 
image through this combined endeavor.
Alas, his effoits fall short of expecta
tion. He includes in this album songs that 
were well done to begin with and those 
that deserved more attention were passed 
by. He includes on this album things that, 
though they might work well on screen, 
lack meaning or importance when out of 
context on the disc. An album should be 
able to stand up by itself, whether it conies 
from a movie or not.
UNUSUAL
PART-TIME
OPPORTUNITY
Are you unmarried? 21-30 years of age? 
150-200 pounds? Non-smoker, healthy male, 
interested in extra money? If you answer 
"yes" to all of the above questions and de
sire further information, please send your 
name, address, and telephone number to:
Biodecision Laboratories
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213
Side One opens with Buffalo Springfield 
music, all Steve Stills tunes, oddly enough. 
The versions we hear are from the 
Hollywood Palace television show when 
groups did lip-syncs to their own records 
with the lead guitar performed live to give 
a feeling of spontinaity to the show. The 
first verse of For What Its Worth is 
spliced onto Mr. Soul. The group then 
breaks into Rock and Roll Woman. An 
overly camp announcer introduces the 
five by exclaiming that their hits have 
made them enough money to buy them all 
of Buffalo and half of Springfield. Chortle.
Jump to CSNY: The Find The Cost Of 
Freedom/Ohio set is nicely done, though 
Graham Nash has to tell the audience to 
shut up before they play. Southern Man 
is together as anything from Woodstock 
was, but Alabama becomes so drowned 
in self-conscious political statement that 
youll probably only smirk once.
Dont get me wrong: I enjoy hearing 
this album, but I hesitate in recommending 
it blatently. One needs fortitude to endure 
the fading out of Are You Ready For the 
Country in the middle of the second verSe 
for what sounds like a bunch of groupies 
singing Let Me Call You Sweetheart. 
And one needs something of a tin ear to 
withstand the Tony and Susan Alamo 
Christian Foundation Orchestra and 
Chorus doing their rendition of Handels 
Messiah and the theme from King Of 
Kings. A wry sense of humor is helpful 
for Relatively Invitation, an on-thestreet dialogue between Neil and a sidewalk 
evangelist. Of all the things that Harvest 
was criticized for, possibly Journey 
passes through to the other extreme. The 
oroduction of A Man Needs A Maid in 
the former album, where Neils voice com
petes with the London Symphony Orches
tra was obviously overdone, and it clashed 
with the more delicate pieces from Jour
ney, on the other hand, has next to no 
production, exemplified by the live studio 
performance in the nearly sixteen minute 
version of Words where Young interupts 
to say something to the Stray Gators about, 
the arrangement.
There is only one new song; yes, only 
one. Soldier is nice and bootleg-s 
ounding, and tempts you for more. Youve 
heard all the rest before, performed 
differentlym mostly better. Throughout 
the entire hour of music, the surprises 
consist of confused befuddlement, right up 
to the closing number: Lets Go Away 
For Awhile, the Beachboys instrumental 
from the Pet Sounds album.
But where is the title cut? And how 
about See The Sky About To Rain?? 
Well, hopefully next album . . .
Film Festival presents:By Popular Demand: Series I
Night of the Living Dead
November 17-21Woodstock
November 22-25King of Hearts
November 26-29\fellow Submarine
November 30-December 6Performance
December 11-13Gimme Shelter
December 14-16
Z
December 17-19Hour of the Wolf
December 20-23Satyricon
December 26-28Putney Swope
December 29-31
The Pittsburgh Playhouse 
222 Craft Avenue 
Pittsburgh. Pa 15213 
621-4445
General Admission $2 00 
Student Rate with I D $1 50 
Sunday 7:00 pm and 9:00 pm 
Monday through Saturday 
7:30 pm ahd 9:30 pm (Unless stated)
\\
ABORTION
Information
PREGNANCY TEST AVAILABLE
An Abortion can be arranged 
within 24 hours
Piz a,H otgzoH eist gCt M,st U, iz nt,vtd
Call Colled 
215  735  8100
Open 7 Days A Week
CHANNEL IMPORTS
Room 6010 Jenkins Arcade  Telephone: 391-1530
Open Monday - Friday 9:305:30KITCHEN GADGETSAmerican and Imported Plastic Glasses, Relish Trays, Herb Charts
Rolling Stones
An unauthorized biography 
in words, photographs and music
The greatest rock and roll band in 
the world, set forth in one of the 
most visually exciting books 
published.
Everything you could ever want 
to know about the Stones, in 352 
pages. Commentary and criticism 
by top rock journalists, 350 great 
photos including 24 pages in full 
color. With all the words and all 
the music to just about every song 
ever done by the Stones. Original 
text by David Dalton. Designed by 
Jon Goodchild.
Available at your book, record 
or music store.
An Amsco Publication 
Music Sales Corporation 
33 West 60th Street 
New York 10023
S.
-

---------------------------------------------------

P; i ... . . -, 'Page 8-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, December 5, 1972
Computation Center News
New Classes for Computing Usage
Effective February 1, 1973, all com
puting accounts will be classified as either 
subsidized or non-subsidized. The effect of 
this new classification system will be to 
give better service to non-subsidized ac
counts at the expense of service to subsi
dized accounts.
Subsidized accounts will include those 
accounts supported by the university, and 
for which allocation is made for the 
purpose of using excesscomputing 
capacity.
Non-subsidized accounts will include all 
non-university funded accounts (such as 
those supported by grants and contracts),
1 and General Education accounts.
Advanced Education and Research ac
counts will be considered subsidized. 
However, the appropriate dean may de
signate as non-subsidized those accounts 
which he feels would be supported by the 
university even if excess computing capa
city did not exist. Funds for such priority 
changes must be granted directly from the 
deans account.
(Each department should submit a list 
of its Advanced Education and Research 
accounts to the dean for his approval as 
non-subsidized. The list should include the 
Computation Center account number, ac
count name, course number, and amount 
of authorization. For General Education 
accounts to be classified as non-subsidized, 
account applications must include the ap
proval of the department head and the 
course number.)
The new classes for computing usage 
will be:
(P) Advanced Education-subsidized 
(Q) Advanced Education-non-subsidized 
(R) Research-subsidized 
(S) Research-non-subsidized 
(F) Funded-non-subsidized 
(E) General Education-non-subsidized 
Customers will be affected in the fol
lowing ways:
NON-SUBSIDIZED
1. cannot be nudged by subsidized ac
counts
2. conversational tasks will normally run in 
class S
3. have the option of using conversational 
class T
4. can run batch jobs in class A. B. C, or D 
(jobs in these classes will all run before 
class I jobs)
5. have dataset migration biased in their 
favor
SUBSIDIZED
1. can -be nudged by any non-subsidized 
conversational customers on the system
2. are restricted to conversational class R
3. are restricted to batch class I(jobs will be 
run only after all class A, B, C, and Djobs 
have run; the price of class I and class D is 
the same)
4. datasets will be migrated more frequent
ly
This policy was recommended by the 
deans and the Vice President for Academic 
Affairs.
Advantages of TSS/8
TSS/8 (or Timeshared-8) is one of the 
most versatile low-cost computer systems 
avaiiaDle anywhere. It combines powerful 
multi-language timesharing software with 
the dependability and economy of the 
PDP/8 computer. TSS/8 provides simul
taneous access for up to 17 customers and 
costs much less to use than TSSon the 360 
computer.
RATE SCHEDULE
The following rate schedule will ao into effect Feb. 1, 1973, 
(Changes from the last schedule are marked with arrows.)
Base Charge 
Connect Time
General TSS Class R 
+Class S 
D+Class T ->
MTT-APL 
MTT-TYPESET 
CPU Time
Conversational:
Public MTT-APL-TYPESET 
Class R + Private MTT 
?Class S -
+Class T 
Batch:
+Class A 
+Class B 
+Class C 
+Class D 
Class I 
D+Class T Command 
Card Input 
^Card Input Surcharge 
On-Line Storage 
+Non-mioratable 
Mi oratable 
Off-Line Storaqe 
Page Requests
IBM 360/67 TSS 
$l/custno/month ^Printing
$4.50/hr 
$4.50/hr 
$10/hr 
$.25/hr 
$.25/hr
$180/hr 
$150/hr 
$150/hr 
$270/hr
$225/hr 
$150/hr 
$110/hr 
$75/hr 
$75/hr 
$2/command 
$.001/card 
$1/Job
$.015/page/day 
$.007/naae/day 
$.0005/paqe/day 
$.000005/hr CPU 
time/request
Print Job Surcharge 
Punching
Punch Job Surcharge 
*Read Tape Command
Special Print Train 
* Printing by Special Train
$.01/page 
+ $.0006/line 
$.25/job 
$.005/card 
$.50/job 
$10/command 
+ $.001/record 
$5/reguest 
$.01/paqe 
+ $.0012/line 
$l/mount 
$7.50/request
Tape Mounting 
Special Ribbon Mount
(with special print train)
Special Ribbon Mount $10/request
(without special print train)
Tane Storage
(one month increments)
Tane Drive Use
(1/4 hour increments)
*Tane Library Entrance Fee 
THAW Command 
THAW Later Command 
Use of Unlined White Paper 
Virtual Memory 
^Conversati onal 
?Batch
$.50/tane/month
$10/hr
$2/entry 
$2.50/command 
$.50/command 
$5/request
$.01/Dage hr 
$.01/page hr batch
+Non-subsidized account use only x
OClass T: higher priority conversational and compute-bound CPU Time.
$2 surcharge/command.
No surcharge for jobs read on customer card reader or printed on customer printer. 
Page count is by page eject or every 66 lines.
*A11 tapes must be entered in the tape library. If a reel is submitted for a job 
and then returned to the customer, the library entrance fee ($2) and the tape 
storage fee ($.50) will be charged for each submittal.
?Page hours batch = page hours x CPU Time (hours) x :-----------habitation time
X
WATFIV, PLC and PLAGO
CPU Time:
Compile Time 
Up to 2 seconds $180/hr
Over 2 sec.(by special request) $360/hr
Execution Time(3 sec. maximum)
Up to 1 second $180/hr
Over 1 sec.(by special request) $360/hr
Printing 
4 pages or less 
Over 8 pages 
Card Reading
128 cards or less 
Over 128 cards
$.02/nage
$.08/naqe
$.0005/card 
$.001/card
PDP-8 TSS/8
Base Charge 
Connect Time
No charqe 
$.25/hr'Storage 
CPU Time
(A monthly allocation of $5 is available 
to CMU students who wish to use TSS/8. 
To take advantage of this allocation, leave 
your name at the Computation Center Of
fice, 5216 Science Hall. You will then be 
joined to the system and should return to 
the office for your account number and 
password.)
TSS/8 runs a powerful version of the 
BASIC language, as well as FORTRAN, 
ALGOL, Assembly Language, FOCAL, 
Text Editor, Loader, and Conversational 
Debugger.
One of the many applications of TSS/8 
is simulation, a mathematical and logical 
model of a real process which is pro
grammed on the computer. Laboratory 
apparatus ranging all the way from a simple 
inclined plane to a linear accelerator or a 
lunar excursion module can be simulated. 
In this way, the computer can compress 
time and extend the range of laboratory 
equipment to include devices many schools 
could not afford.
TSS/8 can also be used to develop ma
chine language programs for later use on a 
stand-alone machine.
Customers are connected to TSS/8 
through the teletypes marked PDP-8 in 
the back of the teletype room, or through 
remote terminals by dialing 687-5730. The 
PDP-8 is up 24 hours a day,-seven days a 
week.
1108 Extended Core Option
A new option has been added to the 
1108 job card. Customers can now request 
extended core storage by placing ,M fol
lowing RUN on their job cards. For 
example:
(?> vRUN,MuJOBNAME,HOOOHUOO
$.002/senment(256 words)/day 
$9/hr
<wRUN ,MvJOBNAME,HOOOHUOO 
This option will extend customer core 
storage by 4,608 words (11000 octal). The 
extra core comes from a resident part of a 
real time program needed only whenever it 
is active. Therefore, extended core storage 
jobs can only be run when the real time 
program is inactive (normally from 12:30 
am to 8:00 am weekdays and whenever the 
1108 is up for customers on weekends).
You cannot generate an absolute el
ement requesting extended core storage un
less you generate the element from within 
an extended core storage job, or map it to 
define the core limits.
@ UMAR^MYMAP
01 SET 014000/077777,0100000/0160777 
Jobs requiring extended core storage 
must use the M option on their job cards 
or the jobs will not run successfully.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, December 5, 1972Page
r
Job Sarcharge 
CPU Time - Class D+and
0-1 minute
1-2 minutes
2-4 minutes 
4-10 minutes 
10-24 minutes 
24-48 minutes 
over 48 minutes
Class I
UN I VAC 11Q8 EXEC II 
$1/Job 
$420/hr
$7/fi rst mi n + 
$12/first 2 min 
$17/first 
$23/fi rst 
$30/fi rst 
$60/fi rst
$300/hr/each additional min 
+ $150/hr/each additional min 
4 min + $60/hr/each additional min 
10 min + $30/hr/each additional min 
24 min + $75/hr/each additional min 
48 min + $150/hr/each additional min
+ Class A 
+ Class B 
+ Class C
2.0 times Class D 
1.3 times Cl ass D
1.1 times Class D
*
PRINTING, PUNCHING, CARD INPUT AND TAPE HANDLING 
charges same as for 360. No charge for r 
tape drive use on 1108 at nresent. L J
+Non-subsidized account use only.
^No surcharge for jobs printed at customer printer; customer must retrieve own output
CALC0MP PLOTTERHYBRID EAI 680/PDP-9
Job Surcharge $1/job 
Plotter Use $2/hr 
Plotter Paper (12" wide) $.02/inch 
Colored Ballpoint $2/job 
Liquid Ink $10/job 
Felt Tip Pen $3/job 
(No charoe for mountina standard) 
< plot tape for plotter output ? 
(on either the 360 or the 1108 ;
Computer Use:
1st shift weekdays
2nd & 3rd shift weekdays, 
weekends, leaal holidays 
Patch Boards 
Strip Recorder Paoer
$20/hr 
(1/4 hr increments) 
$10/hr 
(1/4 hr increments) 
$1/day 
$.05/inch
UNITREC - DUPLICATING and LISTING SERVICE
Printing $.04/pagePunching$.005/card
f-lobs submitted at customer card )Punch Job Surcharae$.50/job
(reader printed at WATFIV printer/Card Input$.001/card
OTHER CHARGES and SERVICES
Account number 
Creation of new accounts 
Addition of customer to existing account 
Reallocation of funds between accounts 
VLocker storage
Programming Consultation
(Limited use only. Non-occasional demand 
^Programming and Engineering Service
(Limited availability. Rate will be based 
y/Acoustical Couplers 
VTeletype Purchase
wi 11
on
$2/account number/month 
$5 + $1/customer number 
$2/customer number 
$l/transfer
$3/semester; $5/full year 
$3 1/4 hour
be referred to Programming Services.) 
$10/hour minimum 
personnel involved.)
Approximately $300 
Approximately $650
(For purchase information or maintenance requests, call Ext. 195.)
V Computer Maintenance (PDP-8, PDP-9, PDP-11) *~ $18/hour + parts (1 hour minimum)
V Teletype Maintenance (Model 33 only) $10/hour + materials (1 hr minimum)
* Special Handling $5/request minimum
(Requests honored when possible; up to $25 may be added without consulting requester) 
PDP-11 Paper Tape Reader 
Tape Cleaning 
VTape Cases
y/AVAILABLE AT BOOKSTORE:2400' maanetic tapes for 
PDP-8, PDP-9, and PDP-11 
ribbon; Hewlett-Packard
CMU computing funds cannot be used for these services
$5 surcharqe;$10/hr (1/4 hr increments) 
$2.50/tape
$3.25 (available in 5216 Science Hall) 
1108 and 360/67; DEC tapes for 
; teletype roll paner; teletyne 
Plotter pens.
Any other source may be used.
New Fortran Compiler
Beginning on the first day of the second 
semester, FORTRAN 25 will be the stan
dard FORTRAN compiler on the 1108. 
That means that FOR on a language 
processor card will activate the FORTRAN 
25 compiler, instead of the compiler cur
rently in use.
The only differences you will notice are 
that FORTRAN 25 includes two additional 
commands, ENCODE and DECODE. These 
two statements can be compared to READ 
and WRITE statements respectively. 
Rather than transferring data between a 
peripheral unit and main storage, data is 
transferred between areas of main storage. 
Thus, it is possible to move information 
from block to list while manipulating it 
with format specifications without acces
sing a physical peripheral device.
All other differences are internal and 
result in FORTRAN 25 being a more cor
rect compiler.
You are advised to test your current 
programs on FORTRAN 25 to identify any 
possible errors before the change is im
plemented. To activate FORTRAN 25, you 
must use NEW in place of FOR on the 
language processor card. FORTRAN 25 eliminates a number of errors present in the 
current FORTRAN, but for safetys sake, 
you should test your programs while you 
have the chance. Use of ENCODE and DE
CODE statements requires the use of an 
auxiliary library which is on the third file 
of tape FOR025.
Additions To 1108 Library
Two new FORTRAN functions have 
been added to the 1108 system library to 
aid in program timing.
I=ICTIME will set variable I to the 
current time of day in seconds since mid
night.
J=ISTIME will set variable J to the 
expected termination time in seconds since 
midnight. Note that expected termination 
time advances from an initial value of 
time-at-start-of-run + run-card-timeestimate; these advances occur when the 
executing program is temporarily sus
pended for real-time program activity or 
unavailable facility requests.
To accurately measure the execution 
time of a program segment, use the follow
ing sequence:
IS=ICTIME
JS=ISTIME
(sequence to be timed)
IE=ICTIME
JE=IST1ME
IH=IE-IS
JH=JE-JS
IF (IH.GE.86400) IH=IH-86400 
IF (IH.GE.86400) JH=JH-86400 
IT=IH-JH
(IT is the number of seconds of 
actual execution.)
KILTIE
COFFEE
HOUSE
December 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 
9th, 11th and 12th
Delicious Food and Pleasant 
Atmosphere at Low Prices,
Christmas 
Novelties 
For Sale In 
The Tartan Grill
Christmas Trees  Santa Claus 
Candy Canes 
Lapel Ornaments 
and Lots of Others

---------------------------------------------------

P;e 10THE TARTAN-Tuesday, December 5, 1972
Parking
statistical unlikelihood of all lot holders 
appearing simultaneously.
Discussion followed in which several 
students maintained that the parking rate 
rise had been defended to them with claims 
of increased service. Dr. Cyert then left
open the possibility of reimbursement to 
lot holders for just those days on which 
they had found no parking in their lots, 
and left it to the students to prepare a plan 
for assessing damages on that basis.
Marc Field, who introduced the resolu
tion, responded later that President Cyert 
had missed the point, and that if students 
were indeed promised service that wasnt 
delivered, they should be reimbursed, 
under C-MUs customer policies._____
Payroll Change
continued from page 1
Due to a critical scheduling problem 
during peak periods of computer usage, 
payroll data will now be processed at night 
when the demand is not so great.
In order to accommodate this, a new 
schedule for submitting time cards will be
effective as of Monday, December 11. This 
will apply to the pay period normally end
ing December 10 for all part-time and stu
dent employees whose time is reported on 
time cards.
The first time cards under this schedule 
may be turned in prior to, but no later 
than, Monday noon, instead of the old 
schedule of 5 pm. Monday. If this deadline 
is missed, you will not receive your pay
check until the next bi-weekly payday.
pi(^
PIRG RELATED COURSES AT PITT
PlPQ
1. Mass Communication Law legal aspects of 
broadcasting, public access to media, etc.
Prof. Hanks, Pitt x371.
2. Technology, Environment, and the Law 
legal and technological problems of ecology 
Prof. Goldburg, Pitt x7114.
3. Conservation and Wilderness independent 
. research. Prof. Hays, Pitt x583.
4. International Education and Cultural Co
operation groups in different societies em
phasizing world peace. Flack x7313.
5. Workers: Concepts of Health and Safety on 
the job actual factory research of hazards 
and health conditions. Prof. Kamon xH2162.
J ^ I W A 6. Humanizing Landscape Iterary references
III Ifl I I to environment. Prof: Nebolsone x494.
I I 7. Aesthetics: Discontents of Civilization
 I comparative literature of environmentalists.
^ M Prof. Nebolsone x494.w  C-MU Food Prices do the poor pay
more? Prof. Cass. CMU x545.
0

0
B'nai B'rith Hillel Roller Skat
ing Party at Monroe Bowl 
Saturday, December 2  10:30 p.m. 
Bus leaving Y-IKC, 315 S. Belief eld 
at 9:30 p.m. COST: $1.00. POOL & 
BOWLING AT YOUR OWN EXPENSE.
Charles 
Herbert 
Corle
381-2441
Hours by 
Appointment
NOTARY PUBLIC
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Processing  Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANCE
Student Discount on Most Items
Two Locations 
OAKLAND3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
u-> OOlOOOOu">ir>Lr>r^O'-'trvcN'om'Oco'0
BOBBY WISt MERRY Cl
350
Minimum $ 
One pe
Good from De
0) <uX X
o
2? oto a>*. 1/5c
J Jz o
O 3 O 3  i 
SPECIAL DISCOUNTS FOR LARGE ORDERS
G21-S120
Graad * ol
Stop getting ripped off by others imitating BOPE 
Free, Fast and Hot Deliveries or Cmon (
233 ATWOOD ST., OAKLAND_______621-9129

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, December 5, 1972Page 11
FREE PEOPLES PROD, presents 
IN CONCERT
Tartaan Roland Kirk
AND
Weather Report
WAYNE SHORTER . JOE ZAWINUL  MIROSLAV VITOUS
ALSO*
Matrix
Friday, Dec. 8-8 p.m.  Syria Mosque
Available at TICKETRON  FREE PEOPLES STORE  LISTENING POST 
CARNEGIE-MELLON  UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
ALL TICKETS: $5.00-Advance  $5.50-At the Door
geJGJ CJUCim-Ls
is dedicated to the awakening of human awareness through the many 
avenues of the Humanistic sciences. We are interested in people and 
how they live their lives. We are also interested in encounter, sensory 
awareness, education, and meditation.
A few of our activities for January are
THE HUMAN USE OF HUMAN LEARNING, Weekend workshop. 
January 5, 6, 7.
ON BEING A WOMAN, Six evening workshop, Thursdays at 7:30 
p.m., starts January 11.
PSYCHODRAMA WORKSHOP, Six evening workshop, Tuesdays 
7:30-9:00 p.m., starts January 16.
EIGHT EVENING ENCOUNTER WORKSHOP, Thursdays at 7:30 
p.m., starts January 18.
wreiifi
Mromfl SP SlMpfe
]()//   I.
PUT WINGS ON YOUR COLLEGE 
DEGREE
Your professional flying 
career could start 
with a phone call
The United States Air Force offers some unique 
career-starting advantages to college graduates 
between 20y2 and 26^2 years old. After grad
uation from Officer Training School you'll earn 
$11,184 per year while attending flight training; 
automatic increases plus promotion in rank can 
raise your income to $17,000 during your service 
term. And youll acquire valuable training and 
experience that will pay off in civilian life . . . like 
a head start on a flying career ... or impressive 
leadership and million-dollar responsibility cre
dentials to go with your degree. Benefits include 30 days paid vacation annually, free world wide 
air travel, medical care and much more. Call now 
for more information without obligation:
Sgt. Richard P. Allen 
(412) 644-5839 
Room 310 
1000 Liberty Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
ES YOU A RJSTMAS
off"'
purchase g 
uiomer
5-Dec. 10 *
RESUME
Professionally prepared 
at low student rates.
ALLEGHENY 
RESUME SERVICE
7152 JENKINS ARCADE
391*2044
j> a A A 7h( Jttountain Trail Shop
sidse netiiCyd, ac,e
f j  BACKPACKS and FRAMES
 HIKING and CLIMBING BOOTS 
 FOOD  STOVES  COOKWARE 
 ROPE and HARDWARE 
 DOWN CLOTHING
COMPLETE ACCESSORIES  RENTAL EQUIPMENT 
SHADYSIDE - 5435 Walnut Street (2nd floor)
MURRYSVILLE - 4758 Old William Penn Highway 
Weekdays 12-9  Saturday 9-5  687-1700
2506 Liberty Ave. (next to Locante's Restaurant
Weekdays 12-9  Saturday 9-5 Closed Wednesday  343-9966
jOffAJVfff#/
YiS fine quality Pizza, Hoagies and Dinners, 
pwn to the store for candle light pizza.DELIVERY
STORE HOURS
MONDAY through THURSDAY 11 a.m. till 3 a.m. 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY 11 a.m. till 5 a.m.
 SUNDAY 4 p.m. till 2 a.m.
MONDAY thru SATURDAY 
7 p.m. till 3 a.m.
SUNDAY 
6 p.m. till 2 a.m.
/>tuZZ
5UlO<
o> o* O O' U-)oo a  O 't o* ' o</> :  : eo ! : !
oO
q q q aj ! : 3 2
: ! i  ?- : - E
CD .2 o \ _a >>> o 
Q. o o > 
CO 0 u >
c I 2 o o 0> 5
"Oco
4>-Cu>aat/>*?-o0)70ifl
acoQ.
oO
<M
a. ?*o
'  i : *: : 'c! j j 0
i ! i c:  : o
 u -5 S>0 o> a> t 00 - 5 il 'O -o o> 2 2 < o jX(/) < -I . UI
VO
Q. x*
11
s
a
4>o>
SPECIAL DISCOUNTS FOR LARGE ORDERS
621-912S

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANTuesday, December 5, 1972
Final Exam Schedule
Editors Note: The following schedule of final examinations is distributed and prepared by the Schedule Office and does not reflect your instructors desires concerning the administering of these tests. Simply because a time slot has been alio ted for an exam does not necessarily reflect your instructors intent on requiring the final. Confirm all finals with your instructors.
KEY TO TIMES
A8:30-11:30 am.
B1:30-4:30 pm.
C6:30-9:30 pm.
D7:00-10:00 pm.
E9:30-11:30 am.
ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT
70-10112/13ADH 2210,2315
70-14112/14ABH 129A,D
70-143T12/18DIA 225
70-213T12/14DIA 8
70-30112/14BBH 129D
70-31112/13BBH 129A,D
70-32112/18BBH 129A,D
70-323T12/13DIA 8
70-33112/16BBH 129A,D
70-33212/16AMM 14
70-363T12/13DIA 225
12/14DIA Aud.
12/19DIA Aud.
70-38112/14BBH 129A
70-383T12/14DIA 213
70-403T12/14DIA 11
70-42112/13ABH 129A
70-42212/19BBH 129A
70-423T12/13DIA 11
70-44112/13BMM 14
70-443T12/18DIA 9
70-45112/15ABH 129A
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03-12112/18BDH 2315
03-439to be arr.
03-73212/19BMM 14
BIOTECHNOLOGY
42-60012/13ASCH 5302
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06-10112/18BDH 2315
06-15112/19BDH 2315
06-20112/14BDH 2210
06-20512/13BSCH 7500
06-30112/15ADH 2315
06-30312/14ADH 2315
06-30512/15BDH 1112
06-3 T 412/16ADH 1112
CHEMISTRY
09-10312/18BDH 2122
09-10512/16AGym
09-10612/19ADH 2210
09-11712/13ASCH 7500
09-13112/15BDH 2210
09-21812/19APH 100
09-24312/16ASCH 7500
09-44112/14BDH 1112
09-529to be arr.
09-76512/15BSCH 5328
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12-10512/18BPH 100
12-30412/18CPH 100
12-62312/16APH 225C
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15-10012/13AGym
15-100T12/14DSCH 5427
15-10212/19BSCH 5304
15-21012/18BSCH 7500
15-215to be arr.
DRAMA
54-16712/15BMM 14
ECONOMICS*
73-10012/16BGym
73-100T12/14DIA 9
73-150T12/14DIA 225
73-200to be arr.
73-25012/18ADH 2210
73-250T12/13DIA 9
73-330to be arr.
73-360T12/18DIA 11
ELECTRICALENGINEERING
18-10012/15ADH 2210
18-10112/19BPH 100
18-11312/14BSH 125
18-20112/14BSCH 7500
18-21112/16APH 100
18-22112/14AHH 10
8-23312/13BDH 2315
18-30112/14BPH 100
18-310T12/13DHH 105
18-32512/15BDH 2315
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
19-22212/13BHH 11
ENGLISH
76-199 A12/15BBH 235A
B12/15B .BH 235B
C12/15BBH 245
D12/15BBH 255A
E12/15BBH 229B
F12/15BBH 132H
G12/15BBH 132F
H12/15BBH 132E
I12/15BBH 129D
J12/15BBH 129A
K12/15BPH 125C
L12/15BPH 125D
M12/15BPH 225B
N12/15BPH 226A
O12/15BPH 226B
P12/15BPH 226C
Q12/15BSH 224
R12/15BSCH 5304
76-250,25112/14BPH 125B
76-254to be arr.
76-28412/14*BBH 132F
76-29312/15ABH 245
76-32012/25BBH 231
76-321Ato be arr.
Bto be arr.
76-32312/13BBH 255A
76-34012/15APH 126C
76-36012/16BBH 245
76-37012/15BBH 255B
76-40612/13ABH 235A
B12/13ABH 255A
76-41012/14ABH 255A
76-42412/14ABH 232D
76-50012/18BBH 255B
B12/18BBH 255A
76-51012/14ABH 235B
76-512to be arr.
76-53012/13ABH 229E
76-53212/16ABH 229B
76-55012/15BBH 232F
76-57012/13ABH 235B
76-60012/18A .BH 245
76-64012/15ABH 232F
76-67412/16ABH 232F
HISTORY
79-101to be arr.
79-10212/14BGym
79-10312/19ASCH 7500
79-24212/18ABH 132E
79-29012/19ABH 232F
79-293to be arr.
79-370to be arr.
79-427to be arr.
79-500to be arr.
79-511to be arr.
79-51312/15APH 226B
79-553to be arr.
79-65012/16BBH 131
79-653to be arr.
MATHEMATICS
21-10312/19BDH 2210
21-11112/13see 33-111
21-12012/15ABH 231
21-12112/15APH 100
21-12212/14AGym
21-122T12/14DSCH 5302
21-13112/14AGym
21-141to be arr.
21-142to be arr.
21-150'to be arr.
21-22312/13BPH 100
21-224T12/13DSCH 5302
21-23212/16ASCH 5304
21-25512/14AGym
21-256T12/14DSCH 5304
21-25712/16ADH 2210
21-25912/14AGym
21-259T12/14DSCH 5328
21-260T12/13DSCH 5304
21-27312/13APH 100
21-274T12/13DSCH 5316
21-27512/15ASCH 5310
21-289T12/14DSCH 5336
21-31112/14BSCH 5316
21-371T12/13DSCH 5328
21-44112/15ASCH 5320
METALLURGY ANDMATERIALS SCI.
27-13112/13A BH 231,232F
DH A317
27-21012/13ASCH 5304
27-21712/16ADH A317
27-31312/16BDH A317
27-32012/13BSCH 5304
27-43412/15BDH A317
27-54512/16ASCH 5316
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
24-112T12/13DSH 206
24-12112/15BSH 206,220
24-14512/14BSH 324,422
24-150T12/13DSH 422
24-160T12/14D SH 422,PH 225C
24-20312/16ASH 324
24-21312/16BSH 224
24-215T12/14DSH 206
24-233T12/13DSH 224
24-24212/13BSH 206
24-258T12/13DSH 324
24-26612/15BSH 125
24-27312/14ASH 125
MUSIC
57-17312/16EMM 103
57-18112/1310:30-12:30 FA 160
12/13BFA 160
57-66112/15BFA 160
PSYCHOLOGY AND EDUCATION
85-10112/18APH 100
85-192T12/19DBH 245
85-20112/14APH 100
85-20212/14BBH 340A
85-20312/18APH 100
85-204to be arr
85-311Ato be arr
85-312Ato be arr.
85-324Ato be arr.
SOCIAL RELATIONS
88-21812/16BMM 14
88-22612/18AMM 14
88-232to be arr.
STATISTICS
36-21512/15BSCH 7500
36-215T12/19DSCH 5310
36-21912/15BPH 100
36-221T12/18DSCH 5336
MODERN LANGUAGES
82-10112/16EBH 232D
82-10712/16BBH 231
82-11112/16B 'BH 232D
82-11312/19EBH 232E
82-115to be arr.
82-121to be arr.
82-125to be arr.
82-13112/13EBH 232D
82-13312/16EBH 232E
82-135to be arr.
82-141to be arr.
82-15112/16EBH 231
82-15312/14EBH 232E
82-15512/16BBH 132H
82-16112/13BBH232D
82-16312/13BBH 232E
82-17112/18BBH 232D
82-17312/15BBH 232E
82-21012/14BBH 232D
82-30112/14EBH 235A
82-35012/16BBH 132F
82-37112/14EBH 229B
82-38212/15EBH 232D
82-40112/15BBH 232D
82-410to be arr.
82-60112/13B BH 232E
PHYSICS
33-11112/13BGym
33-11512/13BDH 2210
33-11912/13BDH 1112
33-12112/13BGym
33-122to be arr.
33-12312/15AGym
33-12912/16ADH 2315
33-43512/15ASCH 7500
33-43612/13BSH 125
33-44112/14BSCH 5320
33-44312/13BSCH 5310
33-46312/14ASCH 7316
