rnj
gib Tartan
VOL. 42No. 12CARNEGIE NST'J'' OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1948Building, Renovation Plans Revealed
Hiiiitiii .
Million 
For Engineering Hall
Almost 270 Thousand Feet Of Floor 
ipae Added To College Of E&S
Apprvi for ari xparisih hd renovation of campus build
ings; t0 cost four million dollars was given late Monday afternoon 
by the Executive Committee f the Board of Trustees,
Most easily seen of the additions, when it is completed, will be 
million-dollar^ the addition of a 
wing to Engineering hall. More 
than a million dollars will also be 
spent on a power plant and a 
steam and electricity distribution 
system.
In addition, the program calls 
for extensive revamping and ren 
GVStion of availabne space in 
present campug buildings.
Although the plans were orig
inally decided Upon in March, 
1947, they were held in abeyance 
in hopes that "high building costs 
would drop. The program is be
ing undertaken now because the 
school has been informed that it 
cannot expect any significant drop 
in building costs in the near fu
ture.
Plans Revised
This building and renovation 
program, said President Doherty, 
represents a revision of the orig
inal plans, and is designed to 
achieve as far as possible with 
available funds the general space 
increase which would have been 
realized under the campus de
velopment plan of 1947.
At that time it was proposed 
that two wings be built on to En
gineering hall, but the revised pro
gram calls for just one wing, which 
will face the Fine Arts building. 
It is planned now that the depart
ments of chemistry and chemical 
engineering will occupy Porter 
hall as will the office of the Dean 
of Graduate Studies, Dr. Warner.
Ground for the new wing is ex
pected to be broken in the spring, 
and the entire building program 
is expected to cover a two year 
period.
Capital Funds Used
Dr. Doherty pointed out that' 
the funds making the building 
program possible were capital 
funds, which up to now have been 
providing endowment income.
In its renovating Carnegie will 
build completely new stories with
in present buildings, will rede
sign space between upper floors 
and roofs for laboratory, office, 
and class room use, and will re
allocate space for some of its de
partments. Both the Civil engi
neering department and the Coal Research laboratory will be mov
ed from their present positions in 
Engineering hall.
By increasing the amount of 
interior renovation and assigning 
to engineering some space for
merly assigned to other uses, this 
college will have only slightly less 
than the originally planned 270 
thousand - square - feet increase, 
despite the fact that only one, 
rather than two, wings will be 
built
Elections Notice
An all school election for 
membership in Student Council 
will be held Tuesday, January 
18, between 11:15 a. m. and 1:45 
p. m.
Openings available are: Col
lege of Engineering, 9; Fine 
Arts, 4; and Margaret Morri
son. 4.
All positions available are 
those of voting members. The 
only restriction in all colleges 
is that a candidate must be at 
lest a second semester fresh
man.
Petitions are available for 
candidates in the office of the 
Dean of Men. Twenty-five sig
natures of undergraduate stu
dents in the same college as 
that of the candidate are re
quired. Candidates are advis
ed to ascertain that each sign
er has not signed another pe
tition. In the event of dupli
cate signatures on petitions the 
signature on the first petition 
returned to the Deans office 
will be honored.
The last day petitions can be 
turned in is January 11, at 5 
p. m.
Watch the Tartan and the 
school bulletin boards for fur
ther election information.
Stan Siegel,
Council elections 
chairman.
Christmas Recess
Christmas recess for day 
students will begin at noon on 
December 18. Classes will re
sume January 3. Offices of the 
Director of Student Welfare 
and Personnel, Dean of Men, 
Dean of Women, and Adminis
tration and Placement will be 
open during the recess. The 
Cashier's office will also be 
open except for Christmas Eve 
and New Years Eve. All offices 
will be closed on the holidays.
Assistant To Dr. Jones Named
Independents Ready 
Machine for Test
Dormicom Replaces Neglected
IAC; Fraternities Keep Silent \
By Robert Jofrifcon
Independent campus political activity was renewed last week 
as the so far this year inactive remnants Of IAC suddenly came 
to life and began preparations for insuring dormitory and commuter 
representation on student council.
A In the meantinie, nothing but a
John W. Graham 
Transferred From 
Civil Department
John W. Graham, Jr. has been 
appointed as assistant to Dr. Web
ster N. Jones, director of Carne
gies College of Engineering and 
Science. Mr. Graham is Assist
ant Professor of civil engineering 
and has been a member of the 
faculty since 1946.
The newly appointed assistant 
to Dr. Jones is a graduate of Ohio 
State university with a degree of 
Bachelor of Science in civil en
gineering and received a degree 
of civil engineer from Princeton 
university in 1940.
From 1940 to 1942 he served as 
engineer in training with the Fab
ricated Steel construction divi
sion of the Bethlehem Steel cor
poration at Rankin, Pennsylva
nia, and in March, 1942, he en
tered the army as a second lieu
tenant. He was a major at the 
time of his discharge in October, 
1945.
For his services with the Army
John W. Graham is now acting 
as assistant to Dr. Webster N. 
Jones.
* * *
Engineer headquarters during the 
entire Italian campaign, Mr. 
Graham was appointed an Hon
orary Member of the Most Ex
cellent Order of the British Em
pire, by the Rt. Hon. Lord Inverchapel, British ambassador to the 
United States.
Steel for Cyclotron 
Moved to Saxonburg
Masses of steel are being moved to Saxonburg, Pa., in an immense 
transportation operation in the construction of the Carnegie synchro
cyclotron. To the 60 acre Saxonburg cyclotron site will come twelve 
unbelievably heavy steel pieces from the Carnegie-Illinois Home
stead mill, pole parts from the4-
Continental Machine and Foun
dry company of Wheeling, and 
magnet coils from the Brooklyn 
navy yard.
Magnitude of the transporta
tion operation may be realized by 
considering the fact that the size 
and weight of the magnet coils 
may necessitate having them sent 
by barge from Brooklyn down the 
coast, around the tip of Florida, 
up the Mississippi, and finally 
overland to Saxonburg.
Difficult as this project is, it 
would not have been possible at 
all had it not been for the engi
neering skill of the CIT physicists who, with an eye to the im
mense transportation problems 
involved, designed the huge atom 
smasher. The cyclotrons pole tips 
were designed as a doctors thesis 
by Dr. Martyn H. Foss, who re
ceived his degree in June, 1948, 
and its huge electromagnet by Dr. 
Edward C. Creutz and his associ
ates in CITs physics department.
Dr. E. M. Williams of the elec
trical engineering department is 
now designing a high frequency 
oscillator of revolutionary design 
and power economy. In fact, econ
omy and intrinsically new ideas in 
[Continued on page 5]
Mens Glee 
Club Carols
Christmas Serenading 
Is Set For Tomorrow
For the third year in succes
sion, the Mens Glee club will go 
caroling around the campus.
Yuletide singing, scheduled for 
Thursday evening, December 16, 
will begin in Skibo. The entire ...
club will meet for dinner, and at . s a decent factt
5:30 they will sing the traditional <legree of Popularity
carols. Afterwards, the group 
will proceed to President Doher 
tys home, the FPHA and mar
vacuous silence issH^d from fra
ternity headquarters, where, it 
may be assumed, preparations 
were being quietly mader for ac
tion that would be apparent only 
after the campaign begins.
Includes Citcom
Adopting the new title Dormi-- 
com and smoking Citcom clan outof its one-semester ban on poli
tical activity, which had been re
iterated as recently as December 
7 by president Robert Fulton, the 
new independent group included 
most of the remaining personnel 
of the militant IAC.
However, it was indicated that 
its policies would be less stormy 
and that the emphasis of their 
work would be placed on getting; 
independent students into activi
ties rather than solely upon political action.
The Independent students who 
compose the leadership of the 
group are Gerry Meyers, J. K. 
OHare, John Engle, John Fockler, Bruce Barrow, George Zenk, 
and William Johns, who are pres
ently members of Student Council, 
and Wallace Parr, Fred Price, 
Paul Hann, and Kirk Carney in addition.
Lang Missing
Notably absent from the list of 
supporters of the group was Arbon Lang, IAC member who has 
been fighting for months to have 
the controversial Hare System 
of balloting adopted by Council.
First step by the group will be 
the unprecedented one of hold
ing a primary election among in
dependent students to determine 
who they would like to run for 
Council on the Dormicom ticket. 
This primary, it is anticipated, 
will be held tomorrow evening.
Dormicom representatives have 
been interviewing Dorm residents 
all week, determining their poli
tical interests and preferences. 
Their instructions were that the 
potential candidate should have 
a part in a fair amount of activ
ities, a decent factor, and some
Will Give Aid
After a candidate has shown 
-1 his vote-getting ability in the
GardensS b8' MreW00d undertax_____ ri WtiXUVi IOIVCGardens. to aid him in tne Council elections
After the campus program and scheduled for January 18, but apseveral other stops around the parently a large portion of the 
citv the club will give a Christwork of campaigning will fall on 
mas concert at the Pittsburgh the individuals shoulders.
Nurses home, which will be folIAC last year was led by Roblowed by a closed darce for the ert Crago and Jack Anderson, 
two groups. [Continued on page 3]
/

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1948Carnegie T ar tan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief .................................................. Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ....................................................... Samuel MosesAssociate Editor .................................................. Burton L. Epstein
News EditorRobert Kubiak, Sports EditorPaul Offermann, Makeup EditorRalph Painter, Art EditorRussell F. Kulberg, Advertising ManagerArthur G% Zuch, Cir
culation ManagerLewis S. Sternberg.Copy EditorPat Petrick, Headline EditorMyra-Jane Barry, Proof EditorJohn Braun, PersonnelRichard B. Mitchell, Asst. Business ManagerHerbert Stone, Asst. Advertising ManagerMalcolm B. Samakow, Features AssistantFrank Roth, Chief ReportersJohn K. Fockler, Wil
liam Johns, Bennard Perlman, Catherine Rudy, Frances Hamborsky. Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn, Chief PhotographerWilliam D. Benswanger.Copy StaffJohn Bomman, Charles Rainsalo, Mary Cauffield, Robert Cloud, Analee Gelman, Jane Lawton, Dianne Stitt, Elizabeth Asche, Features StaffA. Starke Drischell, Richard Drisko, Gene Feist, Jack Johnson, Edward Von Halle. Makeup StaffA1 Bader.Senior ReporterBert Kimmel.Photography StaffRichard Deininger.
ReportersJo Crisanti, Angela Pollis, Cub ReportersSally Bachman, Judy Block, Alan Blotky, Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Joyce Ertell, Dorothy Kams, Edward Koos, Shirley Levin, William Lyell, Sue MacFadden, Bee Potter, Jane Robb, Nancy Sitler, Michael Stavish, Anita Tabellini, Joann Williams, Nancy Will, Joan Blumenthal, Susan 
Flood, Laura Ehni.Sports StaffRobert Dougherty, Charles King, Warren 
Lithgow, Frederick Lunt, Art Mensing, Gerry Conlon, 
John Roslund.Business StaffMorty Baker, Edmund Denburg, Shirlee 
Goldenfeld, Marjorie Weinsweig, Bud Smith, Bob Pow
ers, Mitch Bakon.TypistsPatti McDermott, Wilma Dickson, Rodda Dean.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 
Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907 at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo
ber 21, 1918.
Editorial
Give A Push !
Mr. Walter Blenko, in addressing the ODK ini
tiation banquet last Friday evening, spoke of the 
responsibility of campus leaders to inspire others 
to strive for conspicuous attainments along the 
same lines in which they have excelled.
This advice is especially worth taking to heart 
when it is recognized that the traits of leadership 
learned in college, properly cultivated and ex
panded, can be the basis for leadership later 
in life. Further aid, advice, and support from 
older, more experienced heads, can be of vital 
importance in providing younger students with 
that impetus which is so important to starting 
an activities career in college.
Perhaps it is an insult to the broad import of 
Mr. Blenkos words to so specifically bring: them 
to bear on an immediate issue, but the opportuni
ty now seems so well tailored that wTe cannot 
resist the temptation to do so.
A Real Responsibility
For we wish to point out the responsibility 
of the independent leaders who are presently 
engaged in trying to reactivate political interest 
among the individual independent students who 
may or may not be aware of what is happening 
on the campus. We refer to Dormicom.
Not only do these leaders have the challeng
ing task and opportunity of fighting the good 
fight from a traditionally underdog position, but 
they also must bear the responsibility for lead
ing their younger brothers to an awareness of 
the situation through participation in political 
or other instructive activities.
Such a group is certainly an asset to any 
campus, for not only does it serve the solemn 
purpose of giving its backers a voice in the stu
dent government, and experience in operating it, 
but it also adds a great deal of color and inter
est to a too often dull campus scene.
Watch and Wait
Up until the last few days, the chances of 
any independent candidates being elected to 
Council seemed remote indeed. Even though 
great activity seems now to be taking place we 
shall continue to be skeptical of the power of 
this new group, Dormicom, until we see definite 
evidence that it is virile enough to do the job 
it has set out to do.
Perhaps Dormicom can step into the foot
steps of IAC; perhaps the primary election will 
be just the factor to capture the imagination of 
enough students to assure success comparable 
to that of last year, but the group will nave to 
prove itself. We hope it will.
Important To All
Whether fraternity men know it or not, a 
reasonably potent independent political machine 
is as important to them as it is to any other cam
pus group, for any group of dominators suffers as 
much from a one-sided situation as do those 
who are dominated.
For the sake, then, of the most efficient student 
government possible, as well as the inspiration 
of promising and potential leaders among the 
younger students in the independent ranks, we 
encourage and support independent leaders in 
their attempts to build a dynamic, liberal orga
nization. May they have the courage and pergibiTiari tn stirk dnggidly tn thi Tnrky TnadJ
Shall We Go Around Again?Letter To The EditorCitcom Wants 
Hare System, 
Says Fulton
Editor, the Tartan
In the past, the majority of 
those persons who ran for Student 
Council office and who were sup
ported by any political group 
were only interested in exploit
ing the powers of Council for the 
benefit of the group which they 
represented.
However, Citcom Clan is in
terested in the coming elections 
inasmuch as we strongly desire a 
democratic Council, but we do 
not believe that it can be at
tained if the present balloting sys
tem is maintained.
Under the proposed Hare sys
tem of balloting, endorsed by the 
Citcom Clan executive board, the 
need for political parties can be 
reduced to a minimum, and the 
election of candidates will be 
based on their merits rather than 
their political affiliations.
Citcom Clan has seen fit to com
bine with the dorms to create 
Dormicom in an effort to elect 
the candidates supporting the 
Hare system. Only until the Hare 
system is adopted will this uni
fied effort be continued.
% Robert Fulton
President, Citcom Clan
On Stage
By Gene Feist
How To Be A
Anton Chekovs The Cherry Orchard was 
first produced by the Moscow Art Theatre on 
January 17, 1904, a few months before his 
death from tuberculosis. The Cherry Orchard, 
the last of Chekovs four major plays, is con
sidered by many critics the crowning example 
of his work. Chekovs plays deal with the in
trospective aspects of personality and explore the 
lonely world of the individuals-inner-being. This 
introversive nature of the Chekovian plays de
mands a special sort of direction and an intimate 
type of production.
Ensemble Acting
Vladimir Danchenko and Constantine Stanis
lavsky, founders of the Moscow Art Theatre, 
created the first acting company capable of trans
ferring Chekovs plays into a vital theatrical ex
perience. The plays require a sympathy and iden
tification which actors can only bring to the 
roles after long months of study and examina
tion. Whatever their personal traits, all of the 
Chekovian roles require mature, fully evolved 
artists to interpret them. Despite the fact that 
Chekovs people inhabit a world in which they 
are seldom capable of communication with each 
other, an emotional inter-relationship exists which 
demands ensemble acting. The ensemble spirit 
can only be found with a group of actors that 
have functioned together as a theatrical enter
prise for a great length of time.
Mask and Veneer
The Cerry Orchard as directed by Lawrence 
Carra and produced by the Department of Dra
ma, is a revealing example of the challenge the 
play offers the actor, director, and designer. Mr. 
Carra directed the play in a manner closely re
lated to the spirit of the Moscow Art Theatre 
productions. The student actors through inter
views with Mr. Carra, and research projects, 
studied the historical and social background of 
pre-revolutionary Russian life. The aim was not 
to assume the mask, the veneer, of the character 
but to accomplish an intellectual and emotional 
identification with the role. The actors succeeded 
in varying degrees in following Mr. Carras in
tent. During rehearsals it was possible to ob
serve the growth of the actors and the develop
ment of their characterizations. Limited rehearsal 
time, and eight performances, are partially re
sponsible for The Cherry Orchard not evolv
ing into a smoothly polished production.
Transitions
Stage directions of The Cherry Orchard in
dicate the emotional depths and heights the play 
requires of the actor. In one speech an actor 
may be asked to weep, followed by hearty laugh
ter, These transitions are difficult for the most 
highly trained artist. Since the emotional scale 
was so vast many of the Carnegie actors found 
themselves acting on a limited plane, physi
cally incapable of exceeding the range of their 
[Continued on page 10J
Gnt ynuT hiaTt sit na makiag 
thi tiam? OT, na playiag snmi 
ixtTa sits with ynuT fabnTiti 
paTtaiT? Thia whats hnldiag 
ynu bark? YnuT maTks? Lark nf 
timi? HiTis thi iasy way tn 
maki up na bnth! Dn ynuT 
sihnnlwnTk na aa UadiTwnnd 
Champion PnTtabli TypiwTitiT.
Ynull maki a bittiT impTissina 
with aiatly typid lissnas aad 
antis. Ynull ibia suTpTisi 
ynuTsilf with thi spiid ynull 
dibilnp na UadiTwnnds 
lightaiag-fast kiybnaTd . . . 
ibiTy kiy raa bi adjustid tn
ynuT iadibidual tnurh. Aad 
ynull taki ixtTa pTidi ia ynuT 
littiTs aad rlassTnnm papiTs .. ; 
all ligibly typid na aa 
UadiTwnnd Champion.
Underwood Corporation'
Typewriter ... Adding Machine . .. 
Accounting Machine ... Carbon Paper... 
Ribbon and other Snppliea 
Dept. 8-1, One Park Avenue, N. Y. 16, N. T. 
Underwood Limited, 135 Victoria Street 
Toronto 1, Canada *\ SaU and Sarvic* Everyuktr*
With a Champina at ynuT 
fiagiT-tips, ynull ant naly dn 
bittiT wnTk, but ynull habi mnTi 
timi fnT spnTts aad nthiT 
artibitiis. Ask ynuT dad tn 
nTdiT ynuT Champina fTnm ynuT 
aiaTist AuthnTizid UadiTwnnd 
PnTtabli TypiwTitiT dialiT anw! 
Write for illustrated, 
descriptive folder, i
* wr
TYPEWRITER LEADER 
### OF THE WORLD ^

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Carnegie Theta XVs Receive 
66Outstanding Chapter Award99
At a special dinner held December 6 the Carnegie Tech Pi chap
ter received the Outstanding Chapter Award of Theta Xi frater
nity. This Memorial trophy is awarded annually to Theta Xis out
standing chapter. The winning chapter is determined by means of a
detailed report which is sent each4-----------------------------------------------------
spring to the Committee on National Chapter Awards.
Ratings are based upon schol
arship, extra-curricular activities, 
and chapter relations, which in
clude financial management, 
pledge training and alumni rela
tions.
Pi chapter was honored to have 
the national president, Earl T. 
Luff, as guest speaker. Mr. Luff 
presented the bronze plaque to 
the chapter president, Ray Kondrat.
Guests of honor at the presen
tation banquet included Theta 
Xis Regional Director Harry P. 
Richter, Dean of Men James Dick
inson, and Director of Student 
Welfare Douglas F. Miner.
F aville-Ellerton
Competition 
Announced
Opening of competition in the 
annual Carnegie contest for the 
Faville-Ellerton awards has been 
announced. Two prizes, of sev
enty-five and twenty-five dollars, 
will be awarded for the two best 
essays on a Problem in Govern
mental or Civic Affairs in (the 
students) Home Community.
The prizes will be awarded from 
a fund, designated the Alumni 
Fund for Greater Interest in Gov
ernment, established through 
gifts of Frederick A. Faville and 
George Ellerton, alumni of the 
class of 1919.
Length of the essay may be 
determined by the student, and 
entries must be submitted to Pro
fessor A. A. Gilmore not later than 
April 15, 1949. Further informa
tion may be obtained from Prof. 
Gilmore in IH 229-D.
 DANCING 
TUES., SAT. aad SUNDAY
Sal-Lenny Martin 
Sun-Tommy CarlynDANCELAND
WEST VIEW PARK
RODGER'S 
DAIRY
Try Our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% Pure Beef 
U. S. Government Inspected 
g
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made With 
PURE WHOLE MILK 
g
RODGER'S
DAIRY STORES
3965 FORBES STREET Near Bouquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Crai*
Raymond Kondrat, president of 
Theta Xi chapter, receives out
standing chapter award from Earl 
Luff, Theta Xi national President.
Only28 Voted Campus Full of Dull
Thuds,9 Says FultonOn Council 
Constitution
their while to vote upon ratifica
tion of the Student Council con
stitution last Tuesday. A prob
able reason for the small turnout 
was the almost complete un
awareness of the student body, 
including many members of Stu
dent Council, that the revised 
document was being brought be
fore a general assembly. No an
tagonistic group decided to form 
a block; only one person voted 
against ratification.
In its present form the new 
constitution is a much more usa
ble instrument than the old one. 
If the comparative ease with 
which the document was approv
ed by the members of Council is 
any criteria, the governing body 
is apparently satisfied with those 
revisions made.
Certainly some improvement 
has been made over the old con
stitution (ratified in 1945), which 
was obsolete because of the 
changes made in college life here 
since the war. One difficulty with 
the old constitution was that it 
did not show the amendments 
that had been made since 1945. 
Now with all of the revisions in
corporated into one paper, Coun
cil will be more sure of what 
powers it has.
National IF Holds Its Fortieth Session
Conference Postpones Study Of 
Racial Discrimination Question
Consideration of the question of racial discrimination among 
college fraternities was postponed for one year by the National 
Interfraternity conference at its 40th annual session held in New 
York City, November 26-27. ?------------------------------------------------------
The National Undergraduate In
terfraternity council, meeting at 
the same time, recommended that 
a committee be appointed to study 
the changing conditions con
cerning fraternity membership.
Representing Carnegie Tech at 
the conference were Dean of Men 
James Dickinson, Assistant Dean 
Ben David, and Dan Cantor, IF 
council representative, who lis
tened to spirited discussion in re
gard to a resolution on the right 
of fraternities to restrict member
ship. Such membership restric
tions were on "the basis of race, 
creed, or color.
The resolution, sent back to the 
58 member fraternities for study 
preliminary to discussion next 
year, states the right of a fra
ternity to select its own members 
without pressure on the part of 
an educational institution. It also 
stipulates that the fraternity shall 
make whatever restrictions it 
sees fit, including religious, rac
ial, or nationality qualifications.
The resolution says that The 
conference believes that the fra
ternity system will flourish bet
ter if the character and person
ality of the individual are re
garded as paramount, rather than 
his race, color, religion, or na
tionality.
Discussion of membership re
strictions was liveliest in the un
dergraduate session, attended by 
188 delegates and alternates from 
more than sixty councils from ev
ery section of the country.
Some of the other resolutions 
adopted by the undergraduates 
called for survey of interfraternity 
councils and college administra
tors as to the needs for more fra
ternity chapters on their respec
tive campuses, the organization 
of panel discussions to consider the 
needs of interfraternity councils, 
and the continuance of the Na
tional Undergraduate Award with 
citations to local councils merit
ing recognition.
An impressive Undergraduate 
council Award was presented to 
the Interfraternity council of the 
Massachusetts Institute of Tefchnology as the undergraduate unit 
which developed the most con
structive program in interfrater
nity activities the past year.
The winning program included 
such projects as the awarding of 
scholarship plaques to chapters 
with high scholastic records, the 
establishment of a central office, 
the publication of a monthly news
paper, a song contest, the planning 
of a building project to provide 
houses for chapters, and the re
organization of programs dealing 
with social policies, expansion, and 
[Continued on page 12]
Fraternities Test 
New Rushing 
Regulations Soon
With the entrance of fifty ad
ditional freshmen to the College 
of Engineering next semester, IF 
Council has decided to attempt 
the first trial of the new frater
nity rushing rules. At this time 
these proposed changes are only 
tentative, but will be decided 
upon by the beginning of the next 
fall semester.
Included in IFs plans is a 
freshmen smoker at which new 
students will be given a general 
orientation on fraternity rushing. 
A new booklet for freshmen is 
also in the making and will in
clude pertinent facts as well as 
information on what to do and 
how to go about choosing a fra
ternity. A new rule that is be
ing considered is that of requir
ing rushees to visit several fra
ternities before making their final 
decision. This is one of the plans 
that will be experimented with 
during next semesters rushing.
IF Council feels that the pres
ent rushing system is the cause 
of a lot of trouble and that there 
are deficiencies in the old method 
for both the fraternity and the 
rushee. The aim of the new sys
tem is to eliminate the ignorance 
of freshmen and to put rushing on 
a clearly defined basis.
Lack Of Quorum Restricts Council 
Meeting To General Discussions
By Bert Kimmel
This campus is full of dull thuds,  concluded Councilman Rob
ert Fulton in a discussion of school spirit at Council meet last week. 
Almost the entire meeting was restricted to general discussions, as 
there was not a quorum present to conduct official business.
-----------------------------------------------------? Besides the discussion of spirit
on campus, the coming election, 
the C Book, and the senior ball 
were batted around. An NSA re
gional conference and the Wom
ans Guild Dance were announced.
CIT is rapidly becoming an 
educational factory, remarked 
Councilman Ryan. Now that we 
have won one game they will 
probably deemphasize football 
even more, he added jokingly. 
Councilman Perlman thought that 
a winning team would be the 
boom to spirit we need and also 
mentioned that the pep squad 
could be very helpful in promot
ing the much desired spirit.
Spirit Problem 
Councilman Fulton suggested 
Citcom, Dorm council, and the 
fraternities collectively could 
solve the problem of spirit. There 
the discussion was dropped and 
the problem still remains un
solved.
A not overly enthusiastic por
tion of the student body turned 
out for the general assembly last 
week and ratifiedthe new consti
tution, reported Councilman Sie
gel. The vote was 27 to 1. This 
leaves Council in the unusual po
sition of operating under the new 
constitution and the old bylaws 
for the coming elections.
Election of new council mem
bers will be held on January 18, 
1949, with 9, 4, and 4 councilmen 
to be elected from Engineering, 
Fine Arts, and Margaret Morrison, 
respectively.
C-Book Inquiry
Councilman Kondrat and Ryan 
were appointed to investigate the 
reasons for the C Book delay 
and the possibilities of having the 
directory published by a student 
organization in the future. It was 
reported that Mr. March, head of 
public relations, had vetoed the 
idea last spring when it was first 
suggested, but that he was more 
favorably inclined to the idea 
now.
Dropping of the senior ball 
from the school calendar brought 
unfavorable comment from Coun
cilman Perlman. Discussion that 
ensued demonstrated that the 
omission was another reflection 
of the lack of spirit on campus.
Womens Guild will hold a 
dance on January 15, in Thistle
Scotch & Soda 
Sets Dates 
For Tryouts
Singing And Dramatic 
Tryouts Will Be Held 
On January 8 And 15
Tryouts dates for Scotch and 
Sodas Molecule Man were de
termined at a meeting of the exe
cutive board held on December 
!.
Definite dates posted are for 
singing and dramatic tryouts, to 
be held January 8 and January 
15, respectively, in FA 107 at 
12:30 p. m.
Those interested in joining 
crews for lighting, scenery and
costumes will have the show ex
plained to them Friday, January 
7, at 4:30 p. m. in Thistle hall. 
Designs for scenery will be due 
about February 12.
As yet no definite date has 
been set for dancing tryouts, but 
they will be scheduled sometime 
early in February.
Scotch and Soda is making a 
definite effort this year to in
clude all departments of the 
school in the production. Every
one has an equal chance to be in 
the production and no preference 
will be given to students in the 
Drama department.
Molecule Man will be pre
sented May 10, 11 and 12 at Car
negie Music hall.
Students May 
Publish C-Book
Kondrat And Ryan To 
Investigate Situation
Plans have been announced this 
week to investigate the possibility 
of some campus organization 
taking over the C-Book pub
lication every year. An inves
tigating committee of two Stu
dent Council members, Pat Ryan 
and Ray Kondrat, has been ap
pointed.
The C-Book is now published 
by the Public Relations office and 
does not appear until mid-semester or later. Under the propos
ed plan it is hoped that the di
rectory will be in the hands 
of the printers two weeks after 
the beginning of the fall semes
ter.
It is also hoped that this CBook would include the Activi
ties directory and possibly a Fac
ulty directory.
The possibility of selling adver
tising space in order to make the 
C-Book self-sustaining will also 
be considered.
OFFICERS pinks
$8.95
QUALITY YEAR ROUND DRESS TROUSERSBeautifully-tailored of finest ELASTIQUE material. Tailored for correct fitting, styling and comfort. Brand new! Wrinkle-proofed. Zipper front. Roomy pockets. Sizes 30-42 in assorted lengths. Supply limited. Previously sold $14.95. Now only 
$8.95 postpaid! C.O.D.s plus charges.
LEONARDS & LEE 
SURPLUS SALES
69-71-73 El 75th St., Dept. 10, Chicaro 19, 111.
hall.
Probably the greatest accom
plishment of the afternoon was 
made by several of the female 
members of Council who added 
almost three inches to the knitting 
they had brought with them.
VAC
[Continued from page 1] 
both of whom have graduated. 
Zenk was Cragos personal choice 
to take over the chairmanship of 
IAC, but he found himself so 
loaded with studies that he was 
unable to take part. It was then 
rumored that Kirk Carney was to 
get the job, but this, too, never 
materialized.
If there is one leader at the 
present time, this fact has not 
been made clear.
He's Coming
After
Christmas !

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1948
Campus Groups Give 
Parties For Children
Sigma Nu, Kappa Sig. Beta
Houses, JFnmias Club Entertain
As Christmas once again draws near, and with it a two-weeks 
vacation, most of the students on campus become inbued with that 
soul-satisfying intangible known as Christmas cheer. Many of 
them also realize that there are many children who, through no
Queen Jo Stafford
fault of their own, are not go
ing to enjoy the sort of Christmas 
that everybody, and especially 
children, should have.
Several groups of students fur
ther realize that while they can
not help all the youngsters whose 
Christmases isnt what it should 
be, they can bring cheer to some 
of them, and these groups of stu
dents are accomplishing this by 
giving Christmas parties for these 
underprivileged children.
Sigma Nu, one of the four fra
ternities giving parties, has in
vited twenty children, ten boys 
and the girls, who are between six 
and twelve years old, from the 
Pittsburgh Juvenile Court of De
linquency. The children will be 
served ice cream, cake and candy, 
and each child will receive gifts 
from a corpulent Santa Claus.
Lou Knaak, who has the nec
essary natural attributes for the 
part, will preside as Santa. The 
decorations include a tree and 
electric trains, and several girls 
from Morewood Gardens will 
chaperone the party, to be held 
Thursday evening, December 16.
Beta Theta Pi is having thirty 
children as their guests, ranging 
in age from five to eleven years. 
The children will come from the 
Protestant Home for children on 
the North Side and will be called 
for by the Betas.
The fraternitys faculty advisor, 
Mr. Kent Shaffer, will be Santa 
Claus, and will appear in cos
tume to present each child with a 
gift. The house will be replete with 
tree and decorations, and girls 
pinned to members of the frater
nity will act as hostesses. The kids 
will be served refreshments and 
given candy to take home.
The Kappa Sigs are having their 
small guests to dinner. The candy 
and pretzels that go before will 
probably not have any ill effects 
on the boys appetite for Christ
mas dinnerwhen did ulcers ever 
bother a twelve-year-old? The 
children, all boys, are fifteen in 
number and are from the Juvenile 
Delinquent Home. Santa Claus, 
electric trains, and gifts will be 
the main features at the party on 
Saturday, December 18.
Delta Upsilon is entertaining 
twenty-five youngsters from seven 
to ten years old. The boys and 
girls are from the St. Pauls Home 
for Children and will have their
STOP TBTuberculosis, which causes the 
deaths of more people betweeen 
15 and 44 than, any other disease, 
can be pre
vented. A 
communica
ble disease, 
it is spread 
by persons 
with open
TB. Unfortun ately,
tuberculosis has no symptoms in 
its early stage, when it is easiest 
to cure. But, fortunately, it can 
be detected early by means of a 
chest X-ray.
The 3,000 associations affiliated 
with the National Tuberculosis 
Association, which are engaged 
in a year-round campaign against 
tuberculosis, urge every adult to 
have a chest X-ray at least once 
a year. If this were done, the 
estimated 250,000 cases of tuber
culosis unknown to health author
ities could be found. When all 
cases are found and treatment 
provided for the individuals, the 
danger of the spread of this dis
ease will be prevented.
Christmas Seal funds help sup
port X-ray services to find un
known cases of tuberculosis.
Buy aad Usi ChTistmas Sials
party Friday afternoon, Decem
ber 17. Gifts will be given to each 
child, and the DU house will be 
furnished with decorations, tree, 
and old St. Nick. This is the first 
time since the war that DUs have 
held this sort of affair.
In addition to the parties held 
by the fraternities, the Carnegie 
Womens Club will hold a Christ
mas party for the children and 
wives of CITs veterans. Mrs. Dogan is in charge of the affair, 
which will be held in the Union, 
and expects 45 mothers and 67 
children to attend. The party will 
have all the usual Noel trimmings, 
and Mr. Shaffer will wear his redSINGING SWEETHEARTCovely Jo Stafford, long a top radio and record favorite, seems desl^ied to become the nations number onehonorary prom queen.kardly a day passes that the popular Chesterfield Supper Club radio star isnt asked to accept the title for some important college function.
and-white uniform at this one, 
too.
Fraternities Refuse Support 
To King Of Hearts Plans
King of Hearts ball will not receive the support of CITs fraterni
ties. Mortar Board, planning to sponsor the affair, applied to In
terfraternity council for a vote of confidence which it failed to re
ceive.
Although the fraternities have indicated their opposition, mem
bers of Mortar Board, which pre-* ,_____ 777 77~ 77 ~Theme of the affair was the all
school election of a King of Hearts 
chosen among candidates supplied 
by the fraternities. Fraternity 
spirit ran high during the cam
paigning and election, which es
tablished the motif for the Val
entine season ball.
viously sponsored the dance, in
tend to consider the matter 
further in their meetings.
Fraternity opposition was by 
no means unanimous, however, as 
indicated by a split vote of six 
opposed versus six favoring. Nev
ertheless, the result lacked a twothirds majority which IF pre
scribed as a guarantee of frater
nity support. Primary reason 
given for the refusal of support 
was the lack of sufficient time and 
money among the various frater
nities to partake in the extensive 
campaigning surrounding the 
election of a King of Hearts.
Last held in February, 1947, 
King of Hearts at one time was 
on the way to becoming an an
nual Valentines Day celebration.
Electricity
All students and faculty 
members are requested to co
operate in reducing the con
sumption of electricity between 
8 a. m. and 9 p. m. by turning 
off all lights which are not be
ing used. The Duquesne Light 
company has asked the school 
to cooperate in reducing its 
load for the winter season.
DON. My GOOD FEUOW.
YOUlRE UNDER NO MEAN
handicap playing ime r
ROLE OF THE IMMORSAI 
CYRANO WITH THAT
VOLVL.44442
SCHUOZZ.
/
CYRANOS NOSE DOESN'T 
X HANDICAP ME UKE MY
Alm ost 27s0T2 
A7 l7t oho i
SMOKE AU 
THOSE 
CIGARETTES 
LAST NIGHT?
THANK YOU. SIR, I 
JOHNNY AND PHIUP 
MOMUS DESERVE EQUAL 
BILLING FOR A 
WONDERFUL ASSIST
The Moral to Our Story:
The serious purpose of our story is to CONVINCE you of the 
very real difference in philip morris.
Proof of this difference, proof of such extensive nature 
that it cannot be adequately set forth here, is available to 
interested students in chemistry and pre-medical work. Just 
write RESEARCH DEPT., PHILIP MORRIS COMPANY, 119 FIFTH 
AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY.
'Bu&y<x^t/oca6u&/iy
HiHt.UniHder w oCpa 'aQ uckL pCc'yLS
.rnUv.rsr ds w vu ICpRTE acICGV 
EcM uCc IB yp cu TIM RcLLMM w 
.'MQ .kacyS
YvYAisOsdOids N OTRpyITES
HiOdreer dsOvr NeBpI MIpkQ 
MchLNc'I IpMIV IBpI ITRBIQ LCG ukTyR 
Ty Gc'C IBCcpI L' Ic MchTyRS
dUvfivUrfif w p:TI cu MIcaaTyR Ty IB 
TLLk cu p MyIyES
dUvUnrO.deiH w UCcDchTyR aBkRQ 
cC TCCTIpITyRS
rtUtif. w duuEIL kRpyE Ty MaphTyRS
iUUvHd.rnrnrUdsevnrfNd GIBTEpk 
cyMIC :kTDL Ty :G IB pyETyIMS
UvnKfKnndYiH UrfiFndOr N YpyIC 
'MTyR IyNLckkpC gcCLMS
CALL
FOR,
. I /*  - ' ***
SUi ; fa-- -- tt
 Ai/1 Hi

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1S4STHE CAENEGI TARTANtrmGigantic Cyclotron Tarts Weigh 3,000,000 Pounds
Frank Witt, left, a Carnegie Tech research assistant, looks over the cyclotron which was built 
at the Homestead Works of Carnegie-Illinois Steel corporation.
Resolved: Actors Must Be Maladjusted To Be Successful
Editors note: The following quotation appeared recently under 
the byline of columnist Erskine Johnson. Frank Roth and Gene Feist, 
printing and dramatic students, respectively, and members of the 
Tartan features staff, were asked to comment pro and con on the 
statement:
HollywoodNews Item: CA man should be mentally malad
justed if he wants to become a successful actor, Northwestern UniMath Students 
Further Education 
Through* Activities
Members of the mathematics 
department have ample opportun
ity to further their education 
through extra-curricular activi
ties.
Every Wednesday afternoon the 
undergraduate seminar in mathe, matics has a meeting at which pa
pers of elementary character are 
presented to students of a junior, 
senior, and graduate level.
Under the direction of Prof. 
Richard J. Duffin and Edwin G. 
Olds, the graduate seminar pre
sents papers of interest to sen
iors, graduate students, and mem
bers of the faculty on Friday aft
ernoons.
Phi Mu Epsilon, national honor
ary mathematical fraternity, holds 
open meetings once a month. 
Prominent scholars in the field of 
mathematics are/ the speakers 
on tpics of a general and more 
elementary nature.
Every other Thursday the 
mathematics colloquium meets in 
IH 104 at 4:30. Invited to speak 
at these meetings are prominent 
national and international mathe
maticians. Papers of research na
ture are presented but are of gen
eral interest.
The fall meeting pf the Alle
gheny Mountain section of the 
Mathematical A s s o c i a tion of 
America will be held November 
6 at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Chairrpan of the section is Pro
fessor J. B. Rosenbach of the de
partment of mathematics. All in
terested persons are cordially in
vited to attend both morning and 
afternoon sessions.
For That Quick Bite, the
SPORT CENTER GRILL
3813 Fifth Abiaui
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
Architects 
Design Palace
Four Seniors Split 
Work On Project
Have you ever wondered what 
the inside of an emperors palace 
was like? Four seniors in the arch
itecture department are trying to 
learn how it should look, for they 
have entered into the international 
competition to design an imperial 
palace for Emperor Haile Selassie 
in Addis Ababa. The contest is 
sponsored by the Empire of Ethio
pia.
The work on the project has 
been distributed among the four 
seniors with each one working on 
a different phase. Mrs. Ann Willis 
is working on geography, climate, 
building materials, and vegetation 
in Addis Ababa. George Hurra is 
doing research on palaces; Joseph 
Cravotta is studying the history 
of the empire and the life of the 
emperor, while Robert W. Kinkle is studying the people, indus
try, and transportation of the 
country. Kinkle is also working 
on a design for a hospital for the 
city of Addis Ababa.
The design for the palace is due 
on December 30, 1948 and may re
quire a trip to New York with the 
entry. The stipulation, if they 
should win, is $25,000 in Ethiopian 
currency; but the students have 
not thought about this or what 
they would do with it as yet.
Cyclotron
[Continued from page I] 
design are the keynotes in the 
Saxonburg projects.
Mental foundations for the Car
negie Tech Nuclear Research cen
ter had their beginning in the 
imagination of many Carnegie 
men of science years before the 
actual financial basis materializ
ed in the form of a $300,000 gift 
from the Buhl Foundation in 1946. 
A condition of the Buhl gift stip
ulated that at least $250,000 be 
raised from other sources. A con
tract from the Office of Naval Re
search and assistance in obtain
ing equipment at special price 
from sundry concerns satisfied this 
condition.
As further assistance became a 
reality and ^nuclear research de
veloped, the plans for the original 
200 million volt cyclotron were 
elaborated until a 350 million volt 
one became a feasible project. 
Later, research at the University 
of California showed that, to com
pete in modern research, a cy
clotron would have to be con
structed so as to have a free 
working range of over 350 million 
volts.
Through additional support 
from the Office of Naval Re
search and the Atomic Energy 
commission, this, too, was in the 
realm of the possible, and the 
plans for a 400 million volt synchro-cyclotron reached maturity.
versity psychologists said today.* * *
By Frank Roth 
A person must be cautious in 
expressing his opinion in a peri
odical of as considerable size as 
the Tartan, and especially cau
tious when the opinion is on so 
controversial a subject as this, 
but it seems that the Northwest
ern university psychologists have 
finally found a yardstick for 
measuring the success of Dramats: The crazier they are, the 
more successful they become.
It has generally been conceded 
at least at Carnegie Techthat 
all Dramats possess, to a larger 
or lesser degree, the asset of 
mental maladjustment, but it re
mained for these psychologists 
to conduct an extensive research 
program of the dramatic students 
at their school and prove conclu
sively that acting is not as sim
ple as many malicious belittlers 
would have us believe; it really 
requires a very high degree of 
mental instability to be success
ful in the theatah.
While I would not wish to give 
the impression that there are any 
violent schizophrenics among our 
budding Macbeths at Carnegie, 
many students have learned to 
look askance at some of the goings-on here. Weird noises fre
quently heard oozing out of the 
Castle (the Dramats own private 
asylum on Forbes street); shrill 
cries of Dahling! How have you 
bean? employed to greet a 
friend not seen since yesterday; 
the lawn in front of Fine Arts re
sembling a battlefield with Thes[Continued on page 9]
* * *
By Gene Feist
It is not necessary to refute Mr. 
Johnsons statement that great ac
tors are maladjusted. The survey 
which he quotes is so limited in 
its coverage that the rash general
ization based upon insufficient 
data can be immediately dismiss
ed. The subject must not be dis
missed with humor by mention
ing the rivalry and misunder
standing that traditionally exists 
between the artists and engineers 
of CIT.
The issue involved demands an 
honest analysis and answer. With 
growing regimentation through
out the world, the very existence 
of the artist is threatened since 
the elusiveness of arts sets it apart 
in a mechanical civilization which 
has not found use for self-expres
sion except as propaganda. It is 
significant that Nazi Germany, 
Fascist Italy, and Falangist 
Spain, have not produced art 
worthy of note.
The actor has three instruments 
with which to perfect and express 
his art; they are his body, voice, 
and mind. Unless he disciplines all 
three means of expression he can
not approach greatness. If his 
mind is aware of what must be 
expressed, but his voice untrained, 
then he is handicapped and unable 
to communicate with his audi
ence.
Graceful movement and elo
quent pantomime will not express 
an intellectual abstraction beyond 
the scope of the actors mind. It 
seems then that the actor must 
know himself and understand his 
[Continued on page 9]
3 HnuT DTy Cliaaiag
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 FnTbis St. MUsium 1288
SPECIAL This Week
Beautiful Orchid 
Corsage . . . .$3.50
LARGE ASSORTMENT OF 
CHRISTMAS FLOWERS 
aad PLANTS
Wi Telegraph Flowers
MA. 1300-SC. 1300 
3719 Forbes Street
Spirial Luarhis fnT 
Studiats aad Busiaissmia
11:00 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and CP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
also
AMERICAN DISHES SERYED
Bambnn GaTdias
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
. . . For Everything in 
FLOWERS . . .GIDAS
A DOUGLAS 
^ GIFT 
CERTIFICATE 
nt A PAIR nf 
DOUGLAS SHOES
Step into your Douglas Shoe Store ... and step out with the 
perfect Gift for Christmas, a Douglas Gift Certificate ... nT 
with a pair of our finest Douglas Shoes.
fflte Stackingftitt
STYLE 2662895
Offer Stylet
$7.95 -$ 10.95
W. 1. DOUGLAS f SHOE CO., BROCKTON 15, MASS.
205 FIFTH AVE.
6223 FRANKSTOWN AVE. <E. LIBERTY)1202 MARKET ST., WHEELING

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1948Tartans Split First Home Games
Skibos Bow Before"Paul Off ermanns'
SpnTisinpi
Intramural Board 
Should Get Its 
House In Order
And they continue a feudin and a fightin. Meaning of 
course on the Intramural board. The scenery seems to have 
shifted to a political background, however, as the major fight 
at present involves who should and who shouldnt be in at
tendance at those secret meetings every week.
It all started a few weeks ago wiien Emanon was sched
uled to play Sigma Nu for the runner-up spot in the school 
touch football championship race. There was apparently a 
slip-up on the part of someone connected with the Intra
mural board in notifying the Sigma Nu representative that 
they were to play the game on a certain date. At any rate, 
Sigma Nu did not hear of the game in time to get their 
better players on the field. The result was an easy Emanon 
victory, 12-3.
With good cause, Sigma Nu protested the game to the 
Intramural board. With six fraternity representatives, three 
Citcom members, three Dorm Council delegates, and the presi
dent of the Managers Club voting, the protest was upheld 
by the slim margin of 7-6. It was decided that the game would 
have to be played over in the near future to determine what team was to get the valuable points for the runner-up spot. 
Until the IM boards meeting of last week the game had not 
been played off. However, at last Tuesdays meeting, it was 
mentioned that the Constitution of the Intramural board pro
vided for only four fraternity representatives, not six, as had 
been in attendance all year.
This of course, brought about a protest from independent 
representatives about all business transactions taken up this 
year. A re-vote on the Sigma NuEmanon protest, with 
only the four fraternity representatives voting, brought back 
a decision in favor of Emanon.
A check back on the amendments to the constitution, how
ever showed that there was a provision for six representatives 
from fraternities to reinstate the pre-war system. During the 
war, every organization had a representative on the Board. 
This was due to the very small number of organizations. Fol
lowing the war and increased enrollment, this system became 
too bulky and the constitution was amended to read that fra
ternities should have six representatives.
The crushing blow to this entire Intramural muddle 
came when another search disclosed that there was no auth
orization on record for the wartime provision that every or
ganization on campus should have a voting member on the 
board. This has left the Intramural Board in the rather ridicu
lous position of having carried on illegal transactions for 
the past six years.
REPORTERS NOTEBOOKBelated Congratulations to two of Carnegies gridiron 
heroes. First, to Gerry Meyers on his being selected by the 
players and coaches of AVashington University as the best 
tackle they played against this season. Next, to Johnny Wil
liamson on being selected by Mariettas coaches and players 
on their all-opponent team. Lets shoot for eleven such honors 
next year!Schedule AdditionAdd this to your pocket basketball 
schedule if youre following the plight of the Tartans this 
year. The Plaid will travel to Peoria, Illinois, on December 
30 to play Bradley University. The Braves were one of the 
nations top teams last year, winning 25 of 28 games. They 
were among the first five teams in high-scoring figures.
Ikk>
QnMMj
Ele
"tibtiCsf
contains Virato!
NIW FORMULA WITH VI1ATOL*
works wonders in the 
looks of your hair. 
It looks natural... 
it feels natural... 
and it stays in 
place! Try a bottle.
* This special compound gives lustrt.. 
keeps hair in place without stiffness.
uS &uk/ 
lij(USb6wj)&fc
hoh...oMj
Win Over Steubenville 
Opens Local Season
Plaid Victory Result Of Sloppy, 
Over-Aggressive Playing By Barons
Waynesburg, 53-43
Yellowjackets Hold Slim Margin, 
Score Decisively In Last Minutes
By Paul Offerman
Playing listless, sloppy basketball, Carnegie 
Techs basketball quintet inaugurated its home sea
son December 8 with a 53-47 win over the Steu
benville Barons.
It was probably the worst ex
hibition of how-not-to-play bask
etball ever given in the Skibo 
gym. Poular opinion, however, 
seems to give the nod to the 
Barons as instigators of the court 
farce.
The best team in the country 
would have had its hands full 
with the driving and aggressive 
type of play used by the footballminded Ohioans.
The game would easily have 
been a rout if the Plaid had been 
pressed at all by Steubenville. Big 
Mike Theodore had the first offnight in his career on the Skibo 
floor. Always good for at least 
double figures in the scoring col
umn, the burly Tartan captain 
pumped fifteen shots toward the 
basket, finding his mark only 
once.
On the brighter side of the pic
ture were the fine showings made 
by Bob McCullugh, Joe Matsey, 
and Jack Riehl. McCullugh took 
over Theodores high-scoring role 
by dumping in six buckets and 
six charity tosses for 18 points.
McCullughs six out of ten per
centage was outstanding.
Matsey, who has always been 
one of Carnegies best shots in 
practice for the past two seasons, 
gave indications that he will be in 
there pitching during the games 
this year by scoring five field 
goals and a free throw.
Bouncing Jack Riehl, as he is 
known along the press table be
cause of his antelope-like gait 
while bringing the ball down the 
floor, turned in his usual fine per
formance along with llj points in 
the scoring column. Jack hit five 
for five from the foul line.
For the Barons, it was all John 
Stozik and Jim Jacobs. Stozik 
was at the end of Steubenvilles 
feeding line and often managed to 
find the hoop. He was weak at the 
foul line though, missing five 
shots. Jacobi was especially good 
around the boards, throwing his 
weight as well as the ball around 
to good advantage.
Carnegie Tech
FG P TPMcCullh, f 6 6 18 Theodore, f 1 3 5 
Harnmann, c 0 0 C Riehl, g
Beck, g Alford, g
2511
g22600010005111g000f000f000
231753TOTAL 17 13 47
SteubenvilleFG F TPStozik, f 6 4 16 
Gagnbah, f 2 1 5 | Jacobs, c 4 2 10 Watt, g 12 4 Marshall, g 2 3 6 Brdar, f 12 4 Diserio, g 10 2 Nixon, g 0 0 0_____t a n n n
Clinton,Lagrone,
TOTAL
Score by quarters:Carnegie Tech 17 13Steubenville ig g
Personal foulsSteubenville (24): StoS \ ^aiigenbaugh 5, Jacobs 5, Watt 5, Marshall 3, Brdar 4. Carnegie (26): Mcnv, T?leodore 3, Hammann 5, 
Schober j  Beck 2* Matsey 4,
Missed foul throwsSteubenville (16): Stozik 5, Gaugenbaugh 1, Jacobs 2, Watt 5, Marshall 1, Brdar 2. Carnegie (12): McCullugh 4, Chetlin 1, Matsey 2, Alford 3, Clinton 1, Lagrone 1.
Ph?mpsaIS: RefereeMihaIichUmpire
121411531147
Vinard Studios 
Fine Portraitures
Application prints and 
photostats in a hurry
MUseum 0314
3919 Forbes Street
(Corner Atwood) Room 415
Up They Go !
Mike Theodore, in the fore
ground, and Jack Riehl, 30, fight 
for a rebounding ball in the Steu
benville game.
* # *
Put It In!
Bob McCullugh, 34, goes up 
high for a lay-up shot and two 
more points in the Steubenville 
game. McCullugh was high scorer 
with 18 points.
\Y aynesbnrg 
Summary
Carnegie Tech |McCluh, f 1 2 4FG F TP 
Thedore, f 7 1 15
Matsey, c 5 
Riehl, g 2 Chetlin, g 1 
Beck, g 1 HPmann, c 0 Schober, g 0 
Clinton, b Lagrone, f
4 14 1 5 0 2 
0 2 1 1 0
TOTALSScore by periods:Waynesburg 13 12 10 1853Carnegie Tech 15 8 9 1143Personal fouls: Carnegie (19)Theodore 2, Riehl 2, Chetlin 5, Beck 3, Matsey 4, McCullugh 2, Clinton. Waynesburg (15)Karmarkovich 3, Ziako _ 4, Staycer 2, Beckman 2, Stough, Gjurich 
Americo, Dull.Free throws missed: Carnegie (8) Theodore, Riehl, Chetlin, McCullugh,Matsey 2, Beck 2. Waynesburg (5) Dull 2, Staycer 2, Gjurich.Officials: RefereeLeo Carrol. Umpire
Patronize
Tartan
Advertisers
Unerring accuracy from the foul line, plus the 
generosity of referee Leo Carroll, gave the Waynes
burg Yellowjackets a 53-43 win over Carnegie 
Tech last Saturday night at the Skibo gym. The 
score however, is no indication of 
how close the game was, for the 
Tartans were trailing by only two 
baskets with one minute and 52 
seconds of playing time remain
ing.
The Plaid started fast and raced 
to a 6-0 lead as Theodore, Mat
sey, and Chetlin hit from outside 
before the game was two minutes 
old. Although cooling off a bit, 
Carnegie still hit often enough to 
hold a 13-12 edge at the end of 
the first quarter.
Visitors Lead 
The Yellowjackets capitalized 
on their foul shots in the second 
quarter to leave the floor at halftime with a 25-23 lead. Chuck 
Karmarkovich, leading scorer in 
the Tri-State district last year, 
was held to a single field goal dur
ing the entire first half as Mike 
Theodore hung to him like a 
shadow. Theodore .also threw in 
11 of his 15 points in this half.
The second half was a see-saw 
battle with the Yellowjackets 
building up three leads of six 
points, only to have the Tartans 
fight back to within a basket or 
two of the lead. Buckets by Theo
dore, Matsey, McCullugh, and 
Riehl kept the Skibos in the game 
during this stretch.
With less than two minutes of 
playing time remaining and Car
negie trailing by four points, 47- 
43, coach Bill Donohoe sent in 
Chuck Clinton, Leo Schober, and 
Paul Lagrone, in an atempt to 
force the ball out of Waynesburgs 
deep freeze tactics and get the allimportant tieing baskets. The 
grandstand coaches, better known 
along the press table as the 
wolves, immediately began yell
ing for Donohoes hide.
Ball Stealers 
Clinton and Schober have been 
noted for their aggressiveness and 
ball-stealing during Carnegies 
practice sessions. Donohoe did not 
put an entire fresh team in as 
most of the wolves thought. 
Theodore and Chetlin remained 
in the Tartan attack.
Although this strategy back
fired, it actually did not lose the 
game for the Plaidit only wid
ened the winning score by six 
points. There was only a very 
slight chance that Carnegie could 
score two baskets in less than two 
minutes against an experienced 
team like Waynesburg. By put
ting in his most aggressive and 
fastest players, Donohoe was tak
ing a chance on forcing the tiring 
Yellowjackets to step up their 
pace and make that all-important 
mistake. On the other hand, he 
could have played his first team 
right down to the wire, being 
satisfied with a two or four point 
loss.
As it was though, the Tartans 
did not lose the game in the final 
three minutes. They were losing 
it from the opening whistle om 
three accounts: lack of height un
der the backboards, the brilliant 
guarding of Bob McCullugh by 
Blaine Gjurich, Waynesburgs Mr. 
Zero, and Mr. Leo Carrols some
what off-colored officiating.
About Carroll 
It seems that Carroll has been 
anti-Tech ever since the frequent 
run-ins he use to have with lit
tle Leo Clougherty two years ago. 
Fortunately for the Tartans, it 
was the only game he will be of
ficiating on the Skibo floor.
Center Joe Matsey turned in 
another top-notch performance for 
the Skibos, making good five out 
of 13 field goal attempts.
*WaynesburgFG F TP
Kmkvh, f 5 3 13 
Ziarko, f 3 17Stough, c Oil Gjurich, g 1 3 5Staycer, g 3 10 16 Beckman, c 1 0 2
Dull, g 2 150| Americo, f 2 0 4000000
17943TOTALS17 19 53
new Vaseline cream hair tonic
TKAOC * _________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

Basketball 
Personalities 
Of 48-49
Martin Chetlin is one of two
seniors on this years squad . . . 
This is his fourth year of varsity 
ball . . . Stands only 5-8 and 
weighs 140 .. . One of the fast
est and best defensive players on 
the team . . . Learned his basket
ball at East Pittsburgh high school 
before coming to Carnegie . . . 
Play guard ... A senior in 
architecture.
Thomas Beck is the only fresh
man who has a good chance of 
breaking into the starting line
up before the season is over . . . 
Played three years of basketball 
at North Catholic high school, 
where, as captain, he led them to 
the State Catholic basketball 
championship in 1947 and the 
runner-up spot last year . . .
only 18 years old and stands 5-10 
... Is studying for his degree in 
mechanical engineering.
Joseph Matsey will be right up 
there in the high scoring column 
with Theodore and McCullugh this 
season . . . playing his third year 
of varsity ball at Carnegie . . . 
Played two years at McKees 
Rocks high school, where he was 
captain and leading scorer in his 
senior year . . . Stands 6-3 and 
is only 19 years old despite the 
fact that he is a junior in mechan
ical engineering.
Jack Riehl is playing his last 
year of basketball for Carnegie 
... A native Pittsburgher, he 
played two years at St. Justin 
high . . . Stands an even 6-0 and 
owns one of the best set shots on 
the team . . . He is 20 years old 
and slated for his degree in elec
trical engineering this year.
Mike Theodore will go down in 
Tartan court history as one of the 
greatest players to ever wear the 
Plaid uniform . . . Led all three 
schools in Pittsburgh in the scor
ing race last year ... Is also 
the best defensive player on the 
team, always receiving the guard
ing assignment on the highest scor
er of the opposing team . . .
Played three years of varsity ball 
at Wilmerding high and one year 
on a service team in the Pacific 
. . . This is his third year of 
ball at Carnegie . . . Was an out
standing football player in high 
school and is one of the best soft
ball players on the campus . . . 
A junior in chemical engineering.
Connie Hammann is a lanky, 
6-3 sophomore who is improving 
with each game in the pivot spot 
. . . Comes from Martinsburg, 
West Virginia ... Is the proud 
owner of the largest appetite on 
the team, and as most of his team 
mates will agree to, probably the 
largest in captivity . . . Only 18 
years old and a sophomore in 
chemical engineering.
Bob McCullugh comes all the 
way from Portland, Oregon, to 
study engineering ... Is being 
counted upon for some heavy 
scoring this year to take some of 
the burden off of Theodores 
shoulders ... Is deadly with 
one-handed shots from anywhere 
within fifteen feet of the basket
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores In the Collefe District
5808 Forbes Street Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street. Oaklaod 
Main Plants 
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
Carnegie Basketball Roster
No.PlayerPos. Age Ht.Wt.High SchoolHomeYear
25Chetlin, MartinG205-8140East Pgh. H. S.PittsburghSenior
26Beck, ThomasG185-11160North CatholicPittsburghFreshman
27Alford, HughF216-1175Warren D. HardingWarren, OhioSophomore
28Matsey, Joseph ^C196-3175McKees RocksMcKees RocksJunior
29Lagrone, PaulF186-2170GreenvilleGreenville, Miss.Freshman
30Riehl, JackG206-0160St. JustinPittsburghSenior
31Schober, LeoG226-0175Mt. LebanonMt. LebanonJunior
32Theodore, MikeF226-2185WilmerdingWilmerding, Pa.Junior
33Hamman, ConradC186-3180MartinsburgMartinsburg, W. Va.Sophomore
34McCulllugh, RobertF196-0180Central CatholicPortland, Ore.Sophomore
35Clinton, CharlesF225-11165RahwayRahway, N. J.Junior
36Schober, DickF196-1185Mt. LebanonMt. LebanonSophomore
Swimmers Inaugurate Ten-Meet 
Schedule Against Kent State
Carnegies swimming squad will#-
. . . played four years of basket
ball at Catholic Central in Port
land . . . Enrolled in industrial 
administration.
Hugh Alford is a newcomer to 
the team this year . . . He is 6-2 
and hails from Warren, Ohio . . . 
Has had no previous experience in 
high school or college . . . Play
ed a little basketball in Navy . . . 
Attended Kent State before com
ing to Carnegie ... A sopho
more in industrial administration.
Paul Lagrone is a 19-year old, 
6-3 freshman who will see con
siderable action this year . . . 
Played three years of high school 
ball in Greenville, Mississippi 
. . . Studying for a degree in in
dustrial administration.
Leo Schober is a 22-year old 
junior who is out for the team for 
the first time . . . Commutes
daily from Mt. Lebanon where he 
played high school ball ... Is 
studying chemical engineering.
Charles Clinton is one of the 
most improved players on the 
squad over last year . . . Played 
JV ball last year after coming to 
Carnegie without any previous 
high school or college experience 
. . . Studying metallurgical en
gineering.
Dick Schober is also out for 
basketball for the first time, al
though a sophomore . . . Played 
ball at Mt. Lebanon with his 
brother, Leo . . . Is 19 years old 
and enrolled in chemical engiI neering.
open its season on January 8, 
when it engages Kent State in a 
dual meet in the Skibo pool. This 
will be the opening of a ten meet 
schedule which extends into 
March.
Coach Claude Sofield has 20 
men left from the candidates who 
reported at the beginning of the 
training season. Co-captains Dave 
Luckey, breast stroke ace, and 
Robin Molny, back stroke artist, 
head the team, which appears to 
show better balance than last 
year. Lettermen Bill Zoller 
rounds out the breast stroke en
tries, while Dick Barr and plebe 
Bob Butterworth will re-inforce 
Molny in the back stroke.
Many freshman entries give 
strength to the free style events, 
which were the weak point in 
last years attack. Lettermen Gene 
Sapper and A1 Marcyauskas, who 
returns after a years absence, 
will head an array of 10 men com
peting for these positions. These 
include yearlings Eichholtz, Astle, 
Koprinikar, Freeman, Demas, 
Huston, Davies, Abrams, and 
Powers.
Diving will be handled by let
termen Tony Zukasky, Keith 
Bradley, and plebe Grey Duncan.
The team has practiced in the 
Taylor Allderdice high school 
pool the past two weeks because 
of repairs now underway in the 
Tartan pool. It is expected that 
the repairs will be finished be
fore the meet with Kent State.
During the past months prac
tice the squad has worked hard 
and the men have been whittling 
down their times. Coach Sofield 
believes the addition of more and 
better free stylers will increase 
chances of doing better this year.
Co-captain Dave Luckey echoes 
his sentiments, pointing out that 
several meets were lost last year 
by a few points. With the addi
tion of more free stylers this year, 
results may be different, he said.
Last year the 300 yard medley 
combination of Molny, Luckey, 
and Sapper broke the Penn-Ohio 
championship meet record and 
was undefeated in competition 
throughout the season. All these 
men are back.
The team defeated W. & J. and 
tied Grove City in dual meets last 
year.
Tonight Sees 
Tartan Five 
At Bethany
Entertain Westminster 
Friday Night, Then Go 
To Peoria; Then Pitt
Endeavoring to protect Carne
gies unbelmished record against 
Bethany college since the incep
tion of their court series in 1911, 
the Tartans will travel to Beth
any, West Virginia, this evening 
to meet the Bisons on their new 
basketball court. The Skibos will 
be out to stretch their streak 
against the West Virginians to ten 
wins without a defeat.
After putting a good scare into 
Pitt last Saturday before bow
ing by a single point, the Bisons 
are favored to come through on 
their home floor against the Tar
tans. The fact that they are also 
opening up their new gymnasium 
should prove a psychological ad
vantage to the home team.
The Skibos will return to ac
tion on the home front on Friday 
night when they will tangle with 
the Westminster Titans. With 
Chet Dembinski and Don McCul
lough working around the boards, 
Carnegie will once more be topped 
in height. Last season the Titans 
won 15 of 25 games, including two 
wins over Carnegie.
After a brief Christmas vaca
tion, the Tartans will swing back 
into action against Bradley Tech 
in Peoria, Illinois. After this game 
the Skibos may wish that they 
had stood in bed, but an upset 
win would hurtle them into the 
National basketball spotlight.
Immediately after school re
sumes in January, Carnegie plays 
host to Doc Carlsons Pitt Pan
thers in a game that may be the 
best on the local floor.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNG TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1948
TNT Takes Big Lead 
In All-Points Contest
Independent Team Leads Emanon 
By 120 Points; Sigma Nu Third
Compiling a total of 420 points, the independent TNTs soared far 
into the lead as competition began in the eighth annual battle for the
------------------------------------------------------?coveted all-points trophy this fall
Sweeping honors in the touch 
football race, the power laden 
TNTs sported a 120 point edge 
over their closest competitors and 
rival independents, Emanon. With 
an experienced basketball team 
set to take the floor in January 
and a championship softball team 
ready for the spring, the leaders 
will not be easily unseated from 
their current commanding posi
tion.
Six fraternities, headed by 
Sigma Nu, lined themselves up 
behind the two independents, but 
found their best mark more than 
doubled by the pace setters.
The standings, including the 
football season, are:
Intramural
Summary
Vnlliyball Risults
Kiltie LeagueTX 21, 22ATO 14, 20; ASCE 21, 21Phi Kappa 14, 16; PiKA 21, 21Delts 17, 7; TX 10, 22, 21ASCE 21, 20, 17; Delts 21, 21 Citcom 5, 15; ATO 21, 17, 21Phi Kappa 7, 21, 6; PiKA 21, 21TX 18, 16.Plaid LeagueSAE 21, 21FPHA 12, 14; Emanon 21, 10, 21Stanley Steamers 17, 21, 16; FPHA 21, 21Tau Delts 13, 19; Emanon 21, 21Betas No. 1, 19, 17; SAE 21, 21Stanley Steamers 3, 16; Emanon 21, 21Beta Sigs 12, 13; Betas 16, 21, 21Tau Delts 21, 9, 9.Tartan LeagueTS 21, 15, 21Betas No. 2, 9, 21, 13; Sigma Nu 22, 21 DU 20, 19; Kappa Sigs 21, 21Scobells 18, 15; TNT 21, 21Dorm 8, 11; Scobells 21, 21TS 16, 13; TNT 21, 21- Sigma Nu 6, 19; Kappa Sig 21, 21 Dorm 9. 16.
Vnlliyball Staadiags
Kiltie League WonLost
PiKA ................................................60
Theta Xi .........................................51
ASCE ..............................2
Delts ..................................................33
ATO ................................4...........14
Phi Kappa .............................06
Plaid LeagueWonLost
Emmanon .......................................60
SAE ..................................................41
Stanley Steamers .....................42
Beta Theta Pi No. 1................22
Tau Delts ..................4
Beta Sigs ................................14FPHA .........................................05Tartan LeagueWonLost
TNT ................................0
Kappa Sigs ..................................41
Scobells .........................2
Sigma Nu ..................2DU .....................................................22
Beta Theta Pi No. 2..........13TS .....................................4Dorm ..............................5
Tabli Tiaais Staadiags
TeamSCOTS LEAGUEWonLost
PiKA ..0TX ___0TDP............................................10ATO ___1ST. ST. .1Citcom ............................................01PK .........2BSR ___2
TeamSKIBO LEAGUEWonLostXP ___0SAE ___...........................................10anon ............................................10U ___1"> ....................................................11...........................................12' ' .......................................................01A ............................................01,\N.T. . .0\ r ___...........................................00
ies of Week Ending December 10. -3 DUO3 DTD2
Bnwliag Staadiags
~>rike LeagueWonLost
i Kappa .....................................51Theta Xi .........................1Delts ...................................................30Tau Delts .......................0ATO ..................................3Citcom ..............................................15Beta B .......................5Sigma Nu No. 2 ....0Beta Sig .........................................06Spare LeagueWonLostEmanon ............................0Sigma Nu No. 1 .........................30SAE ..................................0Beta A .......................4PiKA ................................4Delta Upsilon ..............2Kappa Sigma ................5TSquares .....................3
FRAZER PROCESS
SPECIALIZED HAIR REMOVING BY 
LICENSED ELECTROLOGIST
5737 Darlington Road 
JAckson 5775
FOUNTAIN
PENS
PARKER . . . SHEAFFER 
WATERMAN . . . 
ESTERBROOK 
NORMA FOUR-COLOR 
PENCILS 
?
Singer Pen 
and Gift Shop
JENKINS ARCADE
TNT 420
Emanon 300
Sigma Nu 200
Alpha Tau Omega 140
Theta Xi 140
Kappa Sigma 135
Pi Kappa Alpha 80
Citcom 80
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 80
Gringoes 70
Phi Kappa 70
Beta Sigma Rho 70
Beta Theta Pi 70
Delta Tau Delta 65
Stanley Steamers 60
Delta Upsilon 60
Tau Delta Phi 50
FPHA 50
IM Basketball
Season Near
30 Teams Entered; . 
PiKA Defends Title
With the pre-Christmas finish 
of the 1948 volleyball season now 
at hand, intramural athletes are 
turning their attention to the rap
idly approaching basketball sea
son with the realization that the 
race for the all-points trophy 
might well hinge on the outcome 
of the three month schedule.
A banner crop of 30 teams, 
headed by the defending cham
pion PiKAs, have submitted en
tries to the intramural office for 
the season which gets underway 
January 10. All twelve fraterni
ties plus thirteen independent 
groups will be represented in the 
three leagues which are called for 
in present plans.
The defending PiKAs will field 
a team almost identical with the 
one which carried away the title 
last winter. Only sharp-shooting 
Chuck Hawley will be missing 
from the array which includes 
guards Lew Heiles and Rich 
Johnson, center Ralph Sill, and 
forwards Don Armour and Lolly 
Anderson.
Among the contenders for the 
crown are the TNTs with versa
tile Tasso Katselas in the key po
sition. Nevertheless, the everdangerous Theta Xis are still 
fighting to retain the all-points 
trophy for the third consecutive 
year. In addition a big five team 
comprised mainly of varsity foot
ball players including Nick Simcic, Johnny Williamson, Jack 
Megniflco, Vince Donata, and 
Tom Haney, appears ready to of
fer serious competition to the top 
ranking squads of last year.
Emanon, PiKA Take Volleyball 
League Titles; TNT Leads
In intramural volleyball com
petition last week, PiKA copped 
the Kiltie League championship 
while Emanon emerged as win
ners of the Plaid league crown. 
Each team compiled a record of 
six victories against no defeats.
In the Tartan league, powerful 
TNT held a commanding lead 
with five wirts and no losses. The 
only threat to TNTs title hopes 
were the Kappa Sigs, who have 
won four matches while losing 
one.
PiKA not only came through 
the regular season undefeated in 
match play, but they also failed 
to lose a single game. Their tough
est match came in the last en
counter of the season, when pre
viously undefeated Theta Xi put 
up a terrific battle before bowing 
by scores of 21-18 and 21-16.
Sparkplugs of the Kiltie league 
champions were Ralph Sill and 
Capel McCutcheon, two tall and 
rangy boys with exceptional abil
ity, particularly in the front court.
UNDERWOOD
*8450
Hut fxci't*> Taj, f 3.07
TIRM3 ARRANGIO
The complete personal typewriter .*V. with 
inbuilt tabulator and many other feature* that make the Champion a truly modem portable. Finished in soft French-gray and chromium. Smart carrying case included.
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
644 LIBERTY AVENUE 
AT. 8320
 i
Clean Sweeps Feature Second 
Week Of Bowling; TX High
Sixteen teams participated in a 
full schedule of intramural bowl
ing last Saturday afternoon, with 
several teams and individual 
scores giving indication of mid
season form.
Total team scoring honors in 
the Strikes league went to Theta 
Xi with 2440 pins. In the Spares 
league, Emanon was high with 
2383 pins.
In Strike league competition 
there were four clean sweeps. In 
the first of these, the Delts beat 
the Beta Sigs three straight by 
scores of 787-597, 768-445, and 
791-563.
In another of the shutouts, the 
Tau Delts took three games from 
the Betas A team with marks of 
719-673, 757-717, and 783-683.
Theta Xi rolled over Citcom 811- 
764, 763-723, and 866-766. Phi 
Kappa took the measure of pre
viously unbeaten ATO in consecu
tive wins of 782-716, 767-717, and 
737-714.
In the Spare league, PiKA outscored Delta Upsilon in the first 
two games 663-599 and 726-710, 
but the D Us bounced back in the 
third match 813-685. Sigma Nu 
#1 shut out the Betas B team 
716-576, 740-739, and 730-665.
Emanon, rolling up high scores 
for the day, was too much for
Bill Repovz of Phi Kappa fra
ternity, one of the leading intra
mural bowlers who bowled the 
high game of 236 two weeks ago, 
and then came back last Saturday 
with 207.* * *
Kappa Sig as they won out 802- 
581, 830-729, and 751-687. SAE 
downed the T-Squares 746-638, 
681-672, and 674-524.
Were Expecting 
a Busy Christmas 
on Long Distance
This year well probably have the biggest Christ
mas ever for Long Distance telephone calls.
Well put every possible switchboard and cir
cuit in service, and well do our very best to speed 
your Christmas calls to friends and family.
Of course, any out-of-town calls you can make 
before Christmas Eve or after Christmas Day will 
help us complete all holiday calls more promptly. 
Remember that most of these messages cost less 
after 6 P.M. every weekday, as well as all day on 
Christmas and Sunday.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN9
Actors-Pro
[Continued from page 5] 
pian forms strewn aboutall 
these, and other happenings, tend 
to confirm the students ideas 
about the drama department.
While I do not recall having 
met any students with leanings 
toward depression, I have met 
several with definite leanings to
wards hysteria. (If hysteria is a 
harsh word, then well just call 
it a form of super-charged exu
berance.) Also-, since no Dramat 
ever born could exist without an 
audience, dual-personality be
comes a necessary constituent of 
a Dramats make-up, for, after 
all, if nobody elese is around, he 
can always talk to himself.
One Dramat of my acquain
tance was not satisfied with four 
years of close companionship with 
his alter ego and came back for a 
graduate course. He is fertile 
ground for my observations. He 
says he is good, and I know he 
is crazy, so again the psychologist 
triumphs. This Dramat is typical, 
and really lives his part. In fact, 
he practices all the time. He looks 
like Puck, talks like Othello, 
laughs like Ophelia, and goes out 
with girls that look like the 
witches in Macbeth. Quantum 
Mutatis Abillo!
Actors-Con
[Continued from page 5]
every motion and personal 
thought. By searching within him
self, the actor can find the mo
tive for the thoughts and reac
tions of the character he is at
tempting to create upon the stage.
The-actor must identify himsell 
with humanity and see himself in 
every human creature. Malad
justed and neurotic connotate 
lack of self-knowledge. These 
terms cannot be applied to a 
knowing person, and a great ac
tor must be knowing.
Modern psychoanalysis attempts 
to eliminate from the mind the 
source and motive for neurosis. 
The cleansing process has long 
been a part of Theatre. The 
Greeks termed the purification of 
the audiences emotions cathar
sis.
Today, in some mental institu
tions and clinics, people are urged 
to re-enact their problems and 
thoughts as if they were actors 
in a play. The actor who can un
derstand his own emotional pat
tern and relieve hi's conflicts 
through expression is not malad 
justed; in fact, he can be said to 
be undergoing a constant process 
of adjustment.
When we consider the quali 
ties of the healthy man, we 
think of the trained mind in the
trained body. Unfortunately, the 
accent has long been upon the 
trained body with the mind rele
gated to secondary importance. 
The basic techniques of acting 
which consist of training in ob
servation, recall of emotions, re
action to others, self-analysis, and 
communal cooperation, should be 
an essential part of all educational 
patterns.
Certainly to be a citizen of the 
world, one must identify himself 
with the world. The artist has al
ways been the first to seek com
munication and to venture beyond 
the barriers of nationalism. The 
people of the theatre long ago dis
covered that every race and civil
ization in its desires and reactions 
are essentially the same. The great 
actor is one who makes each mem
ber of the audience identify him
self with the action upon the 
stage, seeing aspects of himself be
ing enacted.
A maladjusted actor is a lim
ited one; he is forced, by his lack 
of adjustment, to confine his art to 
a small esoteric audience. The 
great actor strives for the uni
versal, attempting to reach the 
best in every member of his audi
ence. To state that all great actors 
are maladjusted is to imply that 
the audience is also maladjusted 
since the artist is always the most 
representative individual of his 
time.
STOP WORRYING!
TAKE DAD ARROW SHIRTS
ro* CHRISTMAS!
"BARONET"
$7.50
ARROW SPORTS SHIRTS FROM $4.00
ThiTi's anthiag ynuT Dad, 
bTnthiT nT Tirh uarli 
wnuld liki bittiT thaa 
ATTnws fnT ChTistmas.
Sn why wasti baratina 
timi shnppiag? Just sii 
ynuT lnral ATTnw dialiT 
fnT snmi pTartiral gift 
suggistinas.
FnT ixampliATTnw's fiai 
whiti shiTts aTi always 
wilrnmi, aad a waTm aad 
rnlnTful ATTnw spnTts shiTt 
wnuld bi a-piTfirt gift fnT 
aa nutdnnT Dad I
A fiw airi ATTnw tiis 
might hit thi spnt. $1 tn 
$2.50. OT hnw abnut a 
bnx nf fiai ATTnw haad
kiTrhiifs with Dad's iaitial?
Sii ynuT ATTnw DialiT.
ARROW 
HANDKERCHIEFS fTnm 35r
ARROW
m---------------------------------------------->
SHIRTS and TIES
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ARROW PRODUCTS
Nationally Known Clothing And Furnishings
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
Installation Of New Boilers 
Gives CIT One Less Vacation
Mr. Keck Relinquishes Position As Head Of 
Buildings And Grounds To Direct Installation
One of CITs tentative vacations is about to be eliminated be
cause of a project now getting under way. The vacation is the happy 
day or two during the winter that occurs when the heating plant 
breaks down and classes are canceled because of cold rooms; the
project is the installation of new 
boilers and an electrical system 
under the supervision of Mr. F.
M. Keck of the department of 
buildings and grounds.
This project dates back to July 
1, 1948, when Mr. Keck relinquish
ed his position as superintendent 
of buildings and grounds in order 
to devote all his time to the new 
installations. As the blueprints 
are now drawn, the equipment will 
eventually include a new boil
er, a Duquesne Light company 
sub-station on the campus, motorgenerator sets to furnish direct 
current for lab work and other 
uses, a four-thousand volt sup
ply line from Machinery hall to 
the entire campus, and a new 
switchboard in Machinery hall.
Mr. Keck, however, says that all 
construction is subject to delays 
due to material shortages and con
struction difficulties.
In conjunction with Mr. Kecks 
change of position has come a 
change in his office location. To
gether with Mr. Miller, assistant 
controller, and his staff, Mr. Keck 
now works in a beautifully-pan
eled office which has fluorescent 
lighting and is complete with new 
furniture and a very officiallooking multi-lined telephone. All 
this presents quite a contrast to 
the dingy walls and dimly-lit halls 
surrouning IH 17. It is also an 
improvement over Mr. Kecks 
former office, which was located in 
the space now occupied by the 
post-office.
A history of the task facing Mr.
Keck is practically a history of 
Carnegies expansion from a 
three-building school to a college 
comprising more than twenty-five 
buildings.
When the school was new, the 
steam-generating and electrical 
systems were among the most 
modern in the country. As the 
school expanded, the equipment 
became over-worked and was sup
plemented in a rather piecemeal 
manner. The electrical system es
pecially was organized confusion, 
with the school furnishing directcurrent while alternating current 
came from outside lines.
As the equipment was forced in
to heavier and more sustained op
eration, costs rose and disrupting 
break-downs began to occur. For 
several years the situation has 
been recognized as one of the 
most critical facing the school:
Now, under Mr. Kecks supervis
ion, the outmoded and worn-out 
equipment will be replaced, and 
the school will have a modern, 
efficient, and less expensive system.
Corner Forbes and Atwood St., Oakland
OPEN EVENINGSFREE GIFT BOXES
FiTst timi uadiT
tTii. ; ;
PORTABLE!
at theStudent Book Exchange
3811 FIFTH AVE.
Civil Service 
To Give Four 
New Exams
Seniors And Graduates 
Eligible; Age Limits 
Waived For Veterans
Of special interest to college 
graduates and senior students are 
four new examinations which 
have recently been announced by 
the U. S. Civil Service commis
sion. Jobs to be filled from these 
examinations are in various fed
eral agencies in Washington, D. 
C., and, in some fields of work, 
in agencies throughout the coun
try. Entrance salary is $2,974 a 
year.
Competitors must pass a writ
ten test to qualify for the Junior 
Professional Assistant, Junior 
Management Assistant, and Junior 
Agricultural Assistant examina
tions and, in addition, must have 
had appropriate education or ex
perience or both. Students may 
apply who expect to complete 
their college courses by June 30, 
1949. Applicants for the Junior 
Scientist positions will be rated 
on their experience and educa
tion, and will not take a written 
test. Age limits, 18 to 35, are 
waived for persons entitled to 
veteran preference.
Copies of announcements of 
these examinations are available 
in the Placement office, and in all 
departments where qualifying 
courses are given. Appropriate 
application forms and announce
ment copies may be secured from 
the U. S. Civil Service commis
sion, Washington 25, D. C., from 
Civil Service offices, and from 
most first-and second-class post 
offices.
Applications for the JPA, 
JMA, and JAA examinations 
should be received in the appro
priate commission office not later 
than December 21. Applications 
for Junior Scientist positions will 
be accepted until June, 1949.
VA Explains 
Interrupted
Subsistence
Veterans enrolled in colleges 
under the Gl-bill may not elect 
to have their subsistence allow
ances interrupted in order to con
serve entitlement for additional 
instruction until they reach the 
end of a period of enrollment cer
tified by their respective col
leges. This may vary from a quar
ter to a full school year.
Interruptions of training be
tween quarters or semesters in
cluding holidays in the veterans 
period of certified enrollment will 
not be recognized.
Veterans who do not wish to 
draw subsistence allowances be
yond certified periods of enroll
ment must notify the VA at least 
30 days before the end of such 
periods. Veterans failing to in
form VA in advance will auto
matically be granted up to 15 days 
of leave and paid full subsistence 
during that time.
Providing there are no more 
than 15 days between semesters, 
the veteran receives full payment 
for the enrollment period cer
tified by his college.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1948
CIGARETTE
GIVE EM BY THE CARTON
says Arthur Godfrey:
MORE COLLEGE STUDENTS SMOKE CHESTERFIELDS than any other Cigarette . . . BY LATEST NATIONAL SURVEY
Gaye Jordan Stars In 
Playhouse Production
There will be no long Christ
mas vacation for Carnegie drama 
student Gaye Jordan as she will 
be at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
throughout the entire holiday sea
son in Howard Lindsays fast mov
ing comedy of college life, She 
Loves Me Not, which will open 
Friday, December 17. The play 
will feature an unusually large 
cast of twenty-two men and wo
men.
Gaye will portray, Curley, a 
runaway night-club hoofer, who 
is befriended by four Princeton 
seniors. You may be assured that 
Curley keeps college life in an
uproar. Unbelievably the play 
contains nineteen scenes; the pace 
alone is enough to keep the audi
ence in a constant state of laugh
ter. The characters move through 
a series of situations designed to 
produce comedy, and yet, situa
tions truly typical of college life.
Gaye, as Curley, becomes onethird of the triangle which re
sults when Paul Lawton, one of 
the seniors who befriended her, 
is torn between the affection 
which he feels for Curley and the 
emotion which he feels for the 
Deans daughter, Midge, and 
the resulting situations prove to 
be quite unusual and hilarious.
In Comedy Roles
Gaye Jordan, left, Carnegie 
actress, in a scene from She 
Loves Me Not.
Architects Honorary Initiates, 
Plans Motion Picture Series
Five students and eight faculty 
members were initiated by the 
Architectural Student Group at 
ceremonies held on Monday, De
cember 13.
The students initiated were 
Tasso Katselas, Howard G. Johe, 
Edward Sullam, Fred Mahaffey, 
and Carl Perlman.
Faculty members accepted as 
honorary members were Pro
fessors John K. Shear, Robert K. 
Schmertz, George B. McKinney, 
Kindred McLeary, John E. Pekruhn, Hans A. Vetter, W. F. 
Hitchens, and B. Kenneth John
stone.
The Evolution of the Modern 
Skyscraper, the first of a series 
of five films from the Museum of
Modern Art in New York City, 
will be shown tomorrow evening 
at 8:30 in IH104.
On Stage
[Continued from page 2]
present development. Because 
basic emotional requirements were 
first studied much of the acting 
lacked the crystal-like contrasts 
essentially the flavor of the Chekovian plays.
The Cherry Orchard provided 
a vivid and informative evening 
of theatre. Both the audience, 
and the students concerned with 
the production, have shown the 
spirit and direction enduring, 
honest, drama must take.
Coprng 194*. Ucm * No1 CL4AAL RL

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN11
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
Quick Efficient Service at the
TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, 
APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. HA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
S9 TEARS EXPERIENCE 
At Your Service
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor .................................................................................. Lou Adams
Associate Editors ... Raymond Schwalm, Charlene J. Tohey
Circulation Manager...................................................George Dawes
Staff
ReportersBob Ellstrom, George Bogovich, Cecilie Zellner, Jim Flaherty.
ColumnistsFrank Mihelich, C. G. Anderson.
Evening Council Holds Annual 
Christmas Assembly On Dec. 17
Rev. Hugh Clark To Give Invocation; Theta Xi
Quartet Will Furnish Musical Background
Evening Student Council will hold its annual Christmas Assembly 
on December 17 from 8 to 8:50 p. m. in the Carnegie theater, Fine 
Arts building: It was decided to hold the gathering during class 
time this year in order to give the students a better opportunity to 
------------------------------------------------------?attend. It is expected that thisThe Aisle Sitter
By LOU ADAMS
Possibly in the spring of its 
years The Cherry Orchard was 
a beautiful sight, but now a 
blanket of snow has fallen giving 
it a dull and listless air. Anton 
Chekov, one of the best known 
Russian writers of the pre-revo
lution period, portrays well the 
deep feelings of his people, but 
those people are of a long past 
and, we believe, better forgotten 
age.
Under the direction of Mr. 
Lawrence Carra the drama stu
dents have presented this picture 
of middle-class Russia in the early 
nineteen-hundreds. It is a very 
searching picture, and it shows 
clearly the motivating forces be
hind the actions of its characters. 
The play in its own time and set
ting was probably quite good, but 
to the modern American theater
goer the situations are uninter
esting.
The acting in general was un
inspired. This was due, we be
lieve, not to any shortcomings 
of the players or director, but 
rather to the character of the dra
ma. We were particularly im
pressed by Emil Kidwells Anya 
and George Shermans Firce. 
These two seemed to have a 
greater feeling for their characters 
than was generally shown. As 
Trofimov, the student, Bert Pol
lock was exceptionally moving. 
His grasp on the writers ideas 
was firm and he delivered the
years program will be better than 
last years as a result of more 
planning.
Tentatively, the program has 
been set to begin at 8:10 p. m. with 
an invocation by the Reverend 
Hugh Clark of the Church of the 
Redeemer. Following the invoca
tion, a quartet from the Theta Xi 
fraternity will sing Fred Warings 
arrangement of The Night Be
fore Christmas. Director Glen U. 
Cleeton will then greet the group 
on behalf of the administration. 
George Bogovich will speak for 
Evening Student Council, while 
Daziel McKelway, evening school 
registrar, will also speak.
Following Mr. McKelways talk, 
the quartet will give several se
lections and lead the group sing
ing. Reverend Clark will give the 
benediction.
philosophy well. We also wish to 
give special mention to tlje well 
designed and executed settings 
by Louis Knaak.* * *
For their third production of 
the season The Playhouse has se
lected She Loves Me Not, a 
hilarious comedy by Howard 
Lindsay, The feminine lead in this 
show is to be played by Gaye Jor
dan. Miss Jordan is familiar to 
habitues of the Carnegie theater 
for her very fine work here. One 
of our former evening students, 
Stella Jakowski is doing the 
choreography for the show. This 
production is of special interest 
to our students, and we hope to 
see many of you there.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
Where There9s Coke 
Theres Hospitality
MANV HAPPY" PTilf?MS 
at a sabiag!
Ask your home town ticket 
agent about College Special 
round trips. They enable you to 
take advantage of available 
round-trip fares with an extra 
long time limit... and 10-day 
stop-over privileges in both di
rections !
'Get a College Special when 
you come back after Christmas. 
Then use it to go home for 
Spring Vacation. Your home 
town ticket agent will have 
these special tickets for sale to 
teachers and students from De
cember 25 to January 16. <
FnT a Timi aad 
Mnaiy-Sabiag TTip
Sn by tTaia
ITS CONVENIENTCOMFORTABLESAFE
AMERICAN
RAILROADS
Ask for it either way ... both 
trade-marks mean the same thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
 1948 ,Th Coca-Cola Comporr
* Editorial
Its Your Council !
[Ed. Note: Several weeks ago the Plaid published a letter to 
the editor which stated that the writer felt that evening student 
council was being run for a privileged few. At that time we stated 
that an answer would be published at a future date. The following 
article, prepared by a member of student council, is intended to 
clarify the situation as much as possible.]
Evening student council has a definite place <m our cam
pus. Its main functions are the control of student activities and 
'.the publication of the Plaid. In the years before World War 
II, this group was composed of duly elected representatives 
of the various schools. During the war and in the years since, 
it was impossible to hold these elections because of lack of 
student interest in them. However the duties of council re
mained, and so a plan was evolved to insure the continuation 
of this body. Interested students who were qualified were 
added under the provisions of article IV, section 5 of the con
stitution. The membership generally changes from year to 
year because of students graduating or leaving school for oth
er reasons. There are usually about twenty members repre
senting most of the schools.
At the beginning of each year and usually at various 
times throughout the semester, the Plaid prints an appeal for 
interested persons to aid in the activities. Generally the coun
cil selects its appointees from among these people, because 
it is felt that they are the ones who will be most active. The results of these appeals have never been gratifying. Sometimes 
only five or six students will come, and too often they are 
merely the professional joiners.
And so when you see the same names being mentioned in 
connection with most of the activities on campus, you are just 
seeing the lists of the interested few who are willing to under
take the work involved. There has never been any attempt to 
suppress anyone who has honestly wanted to help. The number 
of activities is gradually increasing; but until more people 
show their willingness, the same few will be running them. 
They are not the privileged few; they are the work-horses who 
are carrying the burden which should be shared by more of 
the students.
Cbri$-tma$Vaca-hon !
Go by train and make sure of a 
full-time vacation. Youll have 
more time at home with your 
family and friends when you 
travel in the dependable, allweather comfort of modern 
coaches or sleeping cars. See 
your railroad ticket agent to
day ... FOR SURE! m
Wildroot Company, Inc, Buffalo 11, N. Y.
IF YOU were a rhino with problem hair, wed say: Rhinot 
scratch your hide and seek Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic? 
Translated it means: Try the Wildroot Finger-Nail Test! If 
you find signs of dryness or loose ugly dandruff, get Wildroot 
Cream-Oil. Its non-alcoholiccontains lanolin. Grooms hair 
neatly and naturally without that greasy look. Relieves annoy
ing dryness. Removes loose dandruff. And helps you pass the 
Finger-Nail Test. You can get Wildroot Cream-Oil at any drug 
or toilet goods counter. So get a bottle or tube today. Have 
your barber give you professional applications. This fellow 
liked Wildroot Cream-Oil so well he wrote us a leather about 
itsaid it kept his wife from going to 
Rhino (Nevada that is).
5)c of 327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, i4THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Mr. Clifford L. Potter, vice-pi-esident of the Mellon National Bank 
and Trust company, will speak. 
An invitation to attend the semi*Va!r is extended to all faculty 
members and members of the in
dustrial administration and eco
nomics departments,  * ..:
Womens Guild
Womens Guild will seek to add 
to its scholarship fund When it 
presents its aafttt'al dance 
Thistle hall oh Saturday, &&uary 15, The only Ml^iiool dance 
before jnejct the girl-takefeby /affair, at which, however, 
tic&ete will not be denied to r^en, 
will present the rmtiit of Brad 
Hunt and his 'p*iithestra.
Pi Mu Epsilon
Officers of the It chapter of 
the nation} Mathematical frater
nity, PI Mu Epsilon, have been 
effected. Results are as follows: 
David R. Like, director; Millard 
F. Brown, vice director* William 
R. Hasek, seeretM$r; William E. 
McVeigh, .treasurer. "
International Chib
On Friday evening, December 
17, from 8 to 13 p. m., the Internnational club of Carnegie T^ch 
will hold & Christmas pArVy at the 
Carnegie Union.
AH members and friends of the 
club are invited to join the grcup 
for an evening of Christmas games 
and songs from man?' lands. Re
freshments will served.
Technical, Cano
Technical and Cano publications 
will hold a joint meeting for their 
respective business staffs on De
cember 16 at 4:30 in IH 132 F. If 
unable to attend, staff members 
should contact David Sapper or 
Walter Ambrose.
National IF
tContinued from page 
rushing.
Other subjects discussed by the 
undergraduates included the im
provement of scholarship, the 
menace of hell week and the sub
stitution of a constructive Greek 
week program for it.
The necessity of contriving 
drinking among college students 
and the enforcement of rules 
against having liquor on fraternity 
premise's were also discussed. Un
dergraduate council likewise 
pointed out the necessity of reduc
ing the size of chapters to a norm
al membership Which would not 
exceed sixty men.
Scholarship Fund
Prove for yourself what throat specialists 
reported when 30-day smoking test revealed
NO THROAT IRRITATION
dui tn smnkiag CAMELS!
M
ake your own 30-day camel mildness test.
Smoke Camels, and only Camels, for 30 days. Prove for 
yourself just how mild Camels are!
Hundreds of men and women, from coast to coast, recently 
made a similar test. They smoked an average of one to two 
packs of Camels a day for 30 days. Their throats were exam
ined by noted throat specialists. After a total of 2470 examina
tionsthese throat specialists reported not one single case 
of throat irritation due to smoking Camels!
But prove it yourself... in your "T-Zone. Let YOUR 
OWN TASTE tell you about the rich, full flavor of Camels 
choice tobaccos. Let YOUR OWN THROAT give the good 
news of Camels cool, cool mildness.
According to a Nationwide survey:
MORE DOCTORS SMOKE CAMfLS THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE
Try Camels and test them as you smoke them. If, at any time, you are 
not convinced that Camels are the mildest cigarette you ever smoked, 
return the package with the unused Camels and we will refund its full 
purchase price, plus postage. (Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Com
pany, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
Doctor smoke for pleasure, too! And when three leading independent research organiza* 
tions asked 113#597 doctors what cigarette they smoked, the brand named most was Camel!
