Jack Ouyol Tells 
The Story of Scobel Hall 
See Page Twoartan
Owing To A Lack 
Of Funds, The April 27 
Tartan Will Not Appear
VOL. 41No. 20CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 1948
Anderson 
Protests 
Control
Preferential Ballot 
Hit in Council
Claiming that the prefer
ential ballot is used by a min
ority group to protect them
selves and to perform the func
tions of government as they de
sire,  Jack Anderson proposed 
an amendment to the elections 
section of Councils constitution 
during the regular meeting held 
in the Union on April 15.
Any true democratic system 
of representation is impossible as 
long as the preferential ballot ex
ists at Tech, he stated.
Reporting on plans for the com
ing spring elections, Jack Seward 
announced that APO can turn 
away any voter if they can prove 
he is not voting on his own reg
istration card. In addition, APO 
will handle the election complete
ly after nominees are declared el
igible. They will arrange for pub
licity concerning the date, time, 
place and regulations for the elec
tion.Additions and changes to last 
weeks report may be found else
where on this page. Sewards mo
tion that all action taken by the 
elections committee concerning 
the coming election be approved 
and that the election be held on 
the basis of this final report was 
accepted.In reference to his statements 
Anderson quoted facts concerning 
the mechanism of the preferential 
ballot from the Encyclopedia Britannica. His proposals would [Continued on page 8]
Kappa Sigma, 
Thetas Win 
Greek Sing
Kappa Sigma, won the frater
nity competition for the Greek 
Sing trophy on Friday evening, 
April 16. From among the seven 
sororities which competed in Car
negie MUsic hall Kappa Alpha 
Theta was adjudged the winner of 
the sorority trophy.
Honorable mentions went to Phi 
Kappa fraternity and Kappa Kap
pa Gamma sorority.
Directed by Joe Vogan, management junior, the Kappa Sigs 
chorus sang Hallelujah, Climb
ing Up the Mountain, and In 
the Evening, their sweetheart song.
The Phi Kappas director, Gino 
Marco, created a nautical atmo
sphere by his swaying during 
the singing of From Boston Harbor.
Wearing blue and pink gowns, 
the Kappa Alpha Thetas. sang The 
Sleigh, Spring Is Here, and 
Autumn Serenade.
One of the Kappa Kappa Gam
mas songs was The Boy Friend, 
which was cleverly adapted to 
Carnegie Tech by Jane Orr from 
The Girl Friend, a Rogers and 
Hart musical comedy.
Last years winners, the Theta Xi group, presented a smooth 
treatment of blues numbers util
izing original arrangements.
Wearing white aprons and mus
taches, and carrying tea towels, 
the Betas presented an octet of 
singing waiters. They had even parted their, hair in the center to add to the atmosphere.
Council Elections
The following changes and 
additions to last weeks notice 
regarding the forthcoming Stu
dent Council election are now 
effective: Two voting members 
and two non-voting secretaries 
will be elected from Margaret 
Morrison. One of the present 
non-voting secretaries will be 
elected on April 28 as next 
years secretary by the present 
Council. Nominations for all 
other available positions close 
May 4. The Tartan will publish 
a list of nominees, voting times, 
places and regulations on May 
11. Since all nominees from 
Margaret Morrison and Fine 
Arts must be first semester 
juniors, only one ballot will be 
necessary in these schools. 
Elections will be held between 
11:15 and 1:45 on Tuesday, May 
28.
JACK SEWARD, 
Elections Chairman.
Sale Of Carnival Tickets 
Begins Monday, April 26
Sale of Cano 
Due Tomorrow
Palmer Article Heads 
Contents of Issue
Featuring an Introduction to 
Thomas Mann, written by How
ard Palmer, chemistry senior, the 
May issue of Cano will go on sale 
in Skibo on Wednesday, April 21.
Palmers article gives a sum
mary of his own ideas concerning 
art and world affairs, reinforcing 
them with quotations by Thomas 
Mann. Transfer from Life, a 
story by William L. Thompson, 
Jr., will be among the other in
teresting articles included.
Design for the cover was pre
pared by Stuart Williams, a sen
ior in the painting and design de
partment.Contributions to Cano are judgby a literary board of eight stu
dents representing the three col
leges. Two new members of this 
board are Corinne DeChicchis, 
architecture sub-senior, and Rich
ard Drisko, electrical engineering 
junior.Contributions of a literary na
ture are accepted for judgement 
from students in any department. 
Articles should be sent to Cano 
through the interschool mail.
One of our lesser attractions
CIT Offers Solution 
To Education Problem
Prof .Smith Addresses Educators
Seeking New Humanistic Program
As the school which is leading the way to the solution of 
the most pressing problem facing professional education to
day, Carnegie Tech brought home to 96 prominent educators 
at the Inter-Professions conference at Buck Hill Falls last 
week the need for immediate and effective action.
The problem is: How can professional education prepare its 
students for good citizenship and4 
intelligent living?
Elliot Dunlap Smith, originator 
and chairman of the conference, 
presented to the educators Car
negie Techs social relations pro
gram, as a concrete answer to this 
problem, and in so doing, pushed 
CarAegie Tech to the forefront as 
a leader in the drive to achieve a
Sn S Costume Designs 
Attract Local Experts
Designer A1 Lehman of the drama department has merged the 
pencil silhouette with the full skirt of the new look to give cos
tumes for The Ladys at Work a theatrical touch which has been 
attracting the attention of fashion editors throughout the Pittsburgh 
district.Individualism with a touch of the theatrical is definitely needed 
in everyday wear, says Lehman, who has sketched 115 original 
costumes for Scotch and Sodas^ 
musical' revue.Individualism is the keyword 
for The Ladys at Workgone 
are the uniform chorus lines, as 
each girl steps out in a distinct 
Lehman creation.
The full shoulders of th pencil 
silhouette replace the sloping 
shoulders of the new look. The ac
centuated hip is retained but it is 
accomplished through variations 
of the peplum rather than pad
ding. The full skirt and high col
lar combine with selected use of 
color to give the theatrical flare.
In the accessories not only the 
color but the cloth is made to 
match the trim of the dresses. 
Lehman rebels against the usual 
designers fear of color and 
wholeheartedly disapproves of wholesales dress making,
Not lanly has Lehman created a
new fashion style, but he has 
turned to new fabrics. Featured 
in the finale of The Ladys at 
Work will be dresses of a cloth 
which designer Lehman believes 
has never before been used for 
this purpose. ?
Working on the costumes are 
costume design students from the 
drama department and Margaret 
Morrison all under the direction 
of Arlene Dumond. The girls, 
working afternoon and evening 
every day of the week, have found 
the experience new and instruc
tive as they have discovered 
what can and cannot be done in 
the field of extreme fashions.
Design students who are inter
ested can still offer their services 
any day or evening in the Scene 
Design room in the basement of 
the Fine Arts building, 
standard of professional education 
which will help preserve our free 
society.
Provost E. D. Smith, as final 
speaker at the Inter-Professions 
Conference on Education for Pro
fessional Responsibility, summar
ized the need for) reform in the 
present social ahd humanistic 
phases of education.
In such a complex and farflung democracy of men who 
work, it is essential that the keen
est and most disciplined minds 
and by and large this means our 
professional menshould take the 
leadership in solving the govern
mental problems.
He then went on to point out that the reason for tech
nical educations being so far 
ahead of humanistic and social 
education lies in the method of 
instruction, and that if humanistic 
and social studies are to have a 
lasting benefit for students, they 
must be taught with the same 
methods that are used in technical 
education.
This is the Carnegie Tech ap
proach.
Provost Smith, in what many 
feel was the most enlightening 
speech of the conference, stated 
that the failure of social and hu
manistic education is that it at 
best teaches the ability to discuss 
rather than the ability and sense 
of responsibility to deal profes
sionally with the problems of so
ciety.
The three-day conference was 
sponsored by the Carnegie Cor
poration of New York and includ
ed top educators in medicine, law, 
theology, business, and engineer
ing___ _ _
Daily Limit 
Set At 250
Spring Carnival tickets, at a 
price of $7.00 each, will be plac
ed on sale on Monday, April 
26, at 9:00 a. m. in Skibo. Any 
graduate or undergraduate, 
evening or day school student 
will be eligible to buy one of 
the 1100 tickets.
The tickets will be sold at 
the rate of 250 per day. The 
first 250 will be placed on sale 
Monday; when these have been 
sold the ticket booth will close for 
the day. The following day the 
booth will again open at 9:00 a. m. 
with another block of tickets for 
sale.
This procedure will continue 
until Friday when all, if any, of 
the remaining tickets will be sold. 
Since the demand for tickets will 
be extremely heavy, it is expected 
that the daily quota will be ex
hausted soon after the booth 
opens.
An activities card will definitely 
be required to buy a ticket, and no 
student will be able to buy more 
than one ticket per activity card. 
However, students may purchase 
more than one ticket providing 
they furnish a different activities 
card for each of the tickets they 
wish to buy. Tickets will not be 
reserved for any individuals or 
groups; sales are to be strictly on 
a first come first serve basis as 
defined above.
Each ticket will admit two per
sons to both the formal and in
formal dances. No split event 
tickets will be sold.
The sale is being handled by the 
Spring Carnival committee. The 
number of tickets was limited to 
1100 because of the space limita
tions imposed by the mens gym
nasium. It is felt that the quota 
was set sufficiently high to accom
modate as many as possible and 
still have favorable dancing con
ditions. By refusing to reserve 
any tickets and by distributing the 
sale over a number of days the 
committee hopes to assure every
one of an opportunity to purchase 
a ticket.
Dr. Mehl Visits 
England To 
Give Lecture
Professor R. F. Mehl, director 
of the Metals Research Labora
tory, sailed for England on Wed
nesday, April 14 to deliver the 
Third Hadfield Memorial Lecture 
there next month.
Professor Mehls lecture, enti
tled Decomposition of Austenite 
in Nucleation and Growth Pro
cesses, will be presented at the 
Annual General Meeting of the 
Iron and Steel Institute in London 
on May 5.
In order to commemorate the 
late Dr. W. H. Hadfield, FRS, a 
prominent English scientist, a 
Fund was contributed in this 
country (England) and placed un
der the trusteeship of Sheffield 
University, with a view to en[Continued on page ]

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 20, 1948
ClarncgitiEartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours EM. 7556, EM. 9424. 
Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
nd examination periods, by the students of Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ..................................................... Hubert I. AaronsonBusiness Manager ........................................... Edward F. FriedmanAssociate Editor..............................................................Anthony ArrottManaging Editor .............................................. Harry J. Silverman
News EditorRobert H. Smith,Features EditorGerald E. 
Peck, Copy EditorRobert W. Johnson, Sports EditorWilliam Schnitgen, Makeup EditorShirley E. Steiner, Asst. Business ManagerSamuel Moses, Advertising ManagerMartin 
S. Miller, Circulation ManagerOtto Abraham.
Personnel Asst.Jay Johnson, Makeup Asst.Francis Cody. 
Chief ReportersEstelle Mattes, Bennard Perlman, Frederick 
C. Price, Mildred Teague, Alphonse Toppeto.Chief Sports ReportersPaul Offerman, Chief Photographer 
William D. Benswanger.Copy StaffJohn Braun, Mary Cauffield, Robert Cloud, Robert 
Heckert, Analee Gelman, John Helmick, Magdalene Petrick. 
Features StaffRobert Charpie, A. Starke Drischell, Martin 
Dorff, Carl Klahr.
Senior ReportersF. R. Johnson, William Johns.ReportersBea Patterson, Ainslie Bricker, Burton Epstein,
Angela Polis, Joseph Weinreich.
reich.Cub ReportersMarvin Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Ina Jean 
Cohen, Jo Crisanti, William Feeman, Frances Hamborsky, 
Camilla Hawthorne, Sheldon Portman, Bee Potter, Anita 
Tambellini, Rebecca Weisberg, Nancy Will.Sports StaffWarren Lithgow, Robin Molney.SecretaryVirginia Steinbach, TypistsHelen Brody, Betty 
Jane Bower.Photography StaffRichard Deininger. Ames Penfield. 
Advertising StaffShirlee Goldenfeld, Marilyn Frykdahl, 
Leonard Smollen, Dave Stevenson.Circulation StaffMilton Sniderman, Malcolm Samakow, Dave 
Steiner, Louis Sternberg, Herbert Stone.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison 
Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907 at the 
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate at postage pro
vided fo.- in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo
ber 21, 1918.
Editorial
MacArthurs Defeat
General Douglas MacArthurs resounding 
defeat in the Wisconsin and Nebraska primary 
elections is one of the most encouraging 
events of recent weeks.
Apparently the American people are dem
onstrating to their journalists and radio com
mentators that in such human problems as the 
selection of presidential material (as contrast
ed with the completion of income tax forms), 
they have available to them means which 
operate on a different plane from and hence 
cannot be damaged by the crude thumbs of the 
slanted news story and the dramatic infor
mational radio broadcast.
These means do not come into prominent 
play when the usual presidential candidate ap
pears. There is simply a brief matching of 
opinions on personally controversial subjects, 
a look to make sure that there is nothing about 
the candidates personality that requires real 
adjustment for assimilationand the verdict is 
ready.
But when a man indicates profound be
lief in a Diety, proves to be a thinker of real 
worth, or even, showing himself to be of the 
most ordinary caliber reveals something unex
pected through an inflection of voice while 
making dramatic statements or unreeling key 
platitudes, then this other means takes 
over.
Called taste in lieu of more precise ter
minology, this faculty appears to operate as 
swift flashes of half-perception which briefly 
engulf the subject of inquiry, obtain a fully 
general impression of the most prominent per
sonality facets, and then withdraw, with the 
answer complete.
The exact psychological mechanisms in
volved are unknown. But one thing is certain 
the judgments given on the basis of taste 
are remarkably constant and consistent. They 
are apparently almost impossible to influence 
by anything less than a really basic change 
in the American concepts of what constitutes 
a decent form of government or a moral hu
man being.
We expect that taste will shortly turn 
Governor Thomas Deweys beautiful plans in
to a third-time shambles. And that taste 
will ensure decent presidents and sound basic 
governmental policies until such times as hun
ger or bomb blasts cut below even these levels 
and force a redefinition of what is right.
Right Face!
By Robert Charpie
If, as the catalogue proclaims, CIT is really 
trying to prepare us for positions in a world of 
reality, our outmoded grading system should be dis
carded.
On the job, you either fail or succeed in carry
ing out an assignment. The only adequate measure 
of a mans ability is his accomplishments. Poten
tial accomplishments only pay off in our scholastic 
world of make-believe.
A, B, C, and D are merely different ways of 
accepting a students work in a given course. The 
A student, in general, demonstrates more facility 
in the work than does the D student. However, un
less he is a collegiate rara avis, the A student 
does not use his extra ability in such a way that 
he achieves the best education.
Instead of letter grades wouldnt it be more 
fruitful to simply give credit for the course to 
each satisfactory student? Then during the semester 
the more capable students can work in fields trib
utary to the main course theme and dig out for 
themselves additional worthwhile material.
If we were to adopt this system the only cri
terion for graduation would be the successful 
completion of a requisite number of hours of work. 
This work would have to be distributed throughout 
the departments courses at the discretion of a 
departmental curriculum committee. Although the 
commencement records of the students would show 
no significant differences in the amount of credit 
which they have obtained, the superior men would 
be infinitely better prepared for their work.
The objections that have been raised to this 
plan are that it is unworkable because of inter
college transfer and job placement problems. I can 
answer these criticisms with two statements.
First, with our present grading systems it is 
now impossible, within our irame of reference, 
to rate a student coming from another college to 
Carnegie Tech, solely on his record. Secondly, 
a keen interviewer, who knows his field well 
enough to be able to employ college graduates, is 
equipped to get more information from a ten min
ute personal interview than he ever could from a 
mans scholastic record. Therefore, we are not in
curring any additional difficulties by dispensing 
with letter grades.
The adoption of such a plan would have the 
added advantage of permitting an instructor to 
put more emphasis on individual project work in 
many courses. In the basic courses of the first two 
years this would not be consistently possible since 
a certain number of fundamentals must be learned 
before independent work can be handled in an ade
quate fashion.
Therefore, perhaps the best plan would be to 
introduce this system into the graduate school and 
the junior and senior years of the undergraduate 
school. Different standards of acceptance would 
naturally have to be set up for these two sectors.
The above is necessarily sketchy but it is worth 
while noting that the plan has been used effective
ly in some other colleges throughout the country.
l. e.Campus Parties Are 
Poised For Battle
When4Doug9 Was Young
-------------------By Gerald C. Meyers-----------------
The Student Council election in May promises 
to bring with it one of the fiercest battles yet to 
be witnessed on this fair campus.
Both camps have chosen candidates and you 
may rest well assured that neither will be caught 
short for vote getting promises. The political 
picture is quite different now than it was one 
year ago. What has suddenly changed every thing?
IAC has existed as the lone party on this
campus for the last five to eight years. Just re
cently the independent movement, spontaneously 
born, came upon the scene to inject new life into 
the situation and compel IAC to dispose of its 
obsolete methods.
The independent machine showed tremendous 
strength at the polls and seems to have retained 
sufficient energy to warrant the heretofore un
necessary consideration of its opposition. Now IAC 
must go all out or get left out.
But alas! Even though so much life was put 
into the campaign last March, only a small percent 
of the student body voted for the hotly contested 
Student Council positions. The figures show that 
less than one in every four eligible students cast 
a ballot. What a dismal future this country faces 
when its college youth, of all people, refuse to
display enough interest in their government to
vote for representation.
The inevitably result of such circumstances is 
this: The elected official, whether he is a United
[Continued on page 6]
FPrr
4Too Many Men9 Contributes to 
Scobell Hall9s Evil Reputation
By Jack
Scobell hall, named for Henry 
John Scobell, a CIT graduate who 
died in the first World War , holds 
ninety-eight known residents and 
has an unfortunate and unfounded 
reputation for villainous behavious that is the despair of the 
school.
Most of this reputation can be 
attributed to the fact that, since 
there are ninety-eight men living 
in Scobella much larger num
ber than live in any other single 
dormitorythere is naturally in 
that ninety-eight a larger num
ber of unstable persons, and as a 
result of the activities of these few 
persons, the hall is generally 
thought of as being completely 
full of men of little or no civiliza
tion.
How far this is from the truth is 
witnessed by actual fact: only five 
Scobell residents were connected 
with the smoke bomb that explod
ed in Boss hall a year or so ago; 
only about fifteen residents were 
associated with the various snow 
walls across Margaret Morrison 
street during the past few winters.
It is estimated that less than 
one half of the Friday and Satur
day night street singing on cam
pus can be blamed to Scobell peo
ple. It can be seen, then, that in 
reality this dormitory is just as 
quiet in proportion to its size as 
any at school, and it is probably 
that the bad reputation is a carry
over from pre-war days when all 
dormitory residents were non-fraGuyol
ternity and naturally rowdy.
In order to show their interest 
and improve the hall, residents 
last semester decided not to wait 
until 1954 when the school admin
istration had planned to rebuild 
the recreation room, but rather 
to do it themselves.
Built-in furniture was con
structed, new lights were put in, 
and walls were painted so that to
day the Scobell club room is. 
with two exceptions, equal to or 
better than the club rooms to be 
found in either of the other two mens dormitories.
Many residents have been in
terested enough to paint, hang 
curtains, and improve their in
dividual rooms to such a degree 
that quite often residents of Boss 
hall have been seen peeking from 
their rooms into Scobell in search of ideas.
The building itself was one of 
the first dormitories built at Car
negie Tech and an attempt has 
been made to maintain it as much 
as possible in its original state as 
a sort of nostalgic memorial to the 
first students and faculty of the school.
To do this, all of the original 
furniture, wiring and plumbing, 
with the exception of the new club 
room has been left unchanged, 
despite some protests from mod
ernists. By this means, residents 
needing time and quiet in which 
to study have found this an ideal 
foster home, free of the complex
ities of modern living and plumb
ing that works.
WCIT Schedule-April 21-27
Dormitories 900Fraternities 600
WED.THURS.FRI.MON.TUES.
7:30Pi Kappa 
Alpha Show
Morning
ClambakePi Kappa Alpha Show
Pi Kappa 
Alpha Show
Morning
Clambake
8:15Tau Delts 
Dedication
Beta
BreakfastClub
BetaBreakfastClub
Beta
BreakfastClub
Beta
BreakfastClub
9:15Sign OffSign OffSign OffSign OffSign Off
7:00
SigmaNu
Show
DramaDept.
FashionsJazz
Band
Ball
7:15Carnegie
Theater
of
the
Air
RecordsSports
Parade
7:30
RccordsRecords
Strictly 
For Girls
Records
SAI
8:00N. Y. Times News
N. Y. Times NewsN. Y. Times 
News
N. Y. Times NewsN. Y. Times News
8:05Disc
Jockey
Capitol
PresentsMercury
Musicraft
andLondon
(FFRR)
Victor
Presents
9:00Music Thru 
the Ages
Music Thru 
the Ages
Music Thru 
the Ages
Music Thru 
the AgesMusic Thru 
the Ages
10:00Sign OffSign Off Sign OffSign Off .Sign Off

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN8
Council Approves 
Mens Point System
Delta Skull, Scimitar Suggestions 
For Sweeping Changes Accepted
Revision of the Mens Points system was approved by Student 
Council last Wednesday and will go into effect immediately. As 
soon as copies can be mimeographed, they will be available in the 
Dean of Mens Office for those applying to the sophomore and 
junior mens class honoraries.
The recently approved points system was drawn up by William 
Anderson, Harold Lipchik, and Bennard Perlman, members of Delta 
Skulls points committee. Delta*
Skull is one of the two honoraries
effected by the system.
Under the new system, one must 
have a minimum of 35 points to be 
eligible for Scimitar, and 45 
points for Delta Skull eligibility. 
A maximum of 25 points for Del
ta Skull may be obtained from 
freshman year activities.
Publications Tartan 15| Form 5Scotties 10| Cano 5
Technical 10| Tri-Pub 5Thistle 8|
Maximum number of points for publi
cations30.
Intercollegiate Athletics 
Football 15) Soccer 10Basketball 15| Cross Country 8Track 15| Golf 5Swimming 10j Rifle 5Tennis 10| Wrestling 5
Maximum number of points for intercollegiate athletics30.
Intramural Athletics Touch Football 51 Bowling 5
Volley Ball 5| Basketball 5Foul Shooting 5| Softball Table Tennis 5| Soccer 5
Maximum number of points for intramural athletics20.
Other Organizations
Kiltie Band 101 Student Council Mens Glee Club 10| Dance Decorating WCIT 10| Managers ClubScotch and Soda 8| Intramural Board Chapel Choir 5| Dorm Council Cheerleading 5j IF CouncilSpring Carnival 5| FraternityNo maximum number of points on other organizations.
Honoraries 
Alpha Phi Omega 5| Beaux Arts Theta Tau 5| Phi Mu AlphaEta Kappa Nu 5| Tau Sigma Delta Pi Tau Sigma 51 Architecture Scabbard & Blade 5| Scimitar Pi Delta Epsilon 5| Varsity C Club Pi Mu Epsilon 51
Officers of all of these honoraries will receive a maximum of 7 points.There is no maximum number points for honoraries.
Clubs
Chemists Club 3| YMCA ASME 31 Citcom ClanAIEE 3| InternationalAIMME 31 Relations ClubAICHE 3j SAMProteus Club 3| Radio ClubThere is no maximum number of points 
for the clubs.
FactorIf the applicants highest semester fac
tor is between 3.15 and 3.5, he will receive 5 points; between 3.5 and 4, 10 
points.
of
Anita Says No
Anita Colby, Hollywood 
actress, business executive, for
mer Powers model, and an au
thority on fashion and design, 
will not speak at Carnegie Tech 
on May 3 as previously sched
uled, and announced in last 
weeks Tartan.
Miss Colbys talk, Women in 
Fashion Design and the Theater, has been cancelled along 
with the remainder of her en
tire eastern trip by a recall to 
Hollywood for an indefinite 
period of time.
The Face, as she is some
times called, has expressed her 
regrets as have all the men on 
campus who have heard the sad 
news.
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
FOR AN
OREN AND SHUT
CASE
OF SHEER SHIRT COMFORT...
try an Arrow Gordon doubler in fine Gordon oxford * 
cloth, 34.00.
<The doubler is the only shirt we have ever seen 
!lhat successfully leads a double life and looks well 
with or without a necktie.
Ask your Arrow dealer for a Doubler, a perennial  
shirt favorite of U. S. college men.iPJ5. Doubler comes in regular, collar sixes and 
sleeve lengths.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIESm--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products, 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
Morewood Gardens 
Available Next Fall
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland
John Nash 
Offered Top 
Fellowships
In recognition of his superior 
work in mathematics at Carnegie 
Tech, John Forbes Nash has been 
offered four graduate fellowships 
to top-ranking schools  Harvard 
university, Princeton university, 
the University of Chicago, and the 
University of Michigan. At pres
ent he is contemplating going 
either to Princeton or Chicago.
A Westinghouse scholar, Nash 
is one of the few graduates to get 
bothh B.S. and M.S. degrees in 
four years. He has been a member 
of the CIT team for the William 
Lowell Putnam mathematical 
competition for the last two years 
and last year placed among the 
first ten in the competition.
According to Professor Rosenbach, John Nash and Edward L. 
Kaplan, a graduate from the de
partment of mathematics in 1941, 
are the two best students I have 
ever had in over 30 years of col
lege teaching. They have the 
quickness of understanding, the 
originality, and the capacity for 
seeing the inter-meaning of argu
ment that are unrivaled in my ex
perience.
Inter-F raternity 
Picnic To Be Held 
At South Park
Carnegie Techs Interfraternity 
council will sponsor an all-frater
nity picnicf at South Parks main 
lodge on Sunday, April 25, from 
3:00 to 9:00 p. m. It will be strict
ly a date affair.
If this picnic, something new in 
fraternity circles, proves success
ful, another will be planned later 
this spring.
On the program will be sports, 
games, singing, and dancing. The 
A&E food service will supply food. 
Stan Siegel of Beta Sigma Rho 
heads the committee in charge of 
the program.
The last day for the sale of 
tickets to Scotch and Soda clubs 
musical, The Ladys at Work, 
at the special reduced student 
rate of $1.50 per seat will be 
Thursday, April 22. Student rates 
are available now for only th' 
evening performance of Tuesday, 
May 11, in Skibo from 11:30 to 
1:30 daily.
Until the performances on May 
11, 12, and 13 ticket sales will 
continue at the public prices of 
$2.80, $2.40, and $1.80 for the eve
ning shows and $1.30 for any seat
Women Dorm Students To Occupy 
Newly Re-Decorated Apartment
Morewood Gardens is to be the dormitory for all women 
attending Carnegie Tech next fall except those living with 
close relatives.
The dormitory is divided into four sections separated
by fire walls. The side sections have six stories, the middle
?ones, seven. No students will live
on the first floor, which is to be
reserved for the living quarters of
supervisors, including Dean 
Campbell, and for lounges.
The sections contain rooms for 
15, 18, or 21 girls. There will be 
only double rooms and a very lim
ited number of single rooms. Some 
of the rooms have private baths, 
but in the remainder of the rooms, 
the baths must be shared.
In each section there is a living 
room and a utility room, also a 
self-operating elevator which 
works selectively.
In the rooms will be modern 
birch wood furniture. Each stu
dent will be provided a studio 
couch-type bed, pillow, chest of 
drawers, desk, book case, study 
lamp, chairs, and a movable mir
ror. The walls are tinted in pastel 
shades. As before, students will 
provide their own rugs, bed linens, 
blankets, and towels.
There will be a Resident Head, 
directly responsible to the Dean 
of Women, who will supervise the 
welfare, health, and comfort of the 
students. The Resident Head will 
be assisted by Hostesses. A Man
ager will supervise the upkeep of 
the dorm. Womens Dormitory 
Council will draw up and admin
ister rules of conduct and dis
cipline, with the approval of the 
Dean of Women.
A registered nurse who is a 
member of the Student Health 
Service will be in charge of the 
infirmary in Morewood Gardens. 
The infirmary will be used to care 
for students not well enough to 
attend classes, but not ill enough 
to be sent to the hospital. Resi
dents are required to report to the 
dormitory nurses if not well 
enough to attend classes.
Breakfast and dinner will be 
served at the dormitory for fresh
men and at Carnegie Inn for up
perclassmen.
Applications for rooms should 
be obtained in the Dean of Wom
ens Office in about a week as they 
must be sent home for parents 
signatures. A deposit of $15.00 is 
[Continued on page 8]
Scholarships
The last date for acceptance 
of all summer and fall schol
arship applications was April 
15. Further applications will be 
accepted by the Deans office 
only in cases of extenuating 
circumstances.
April 22 End Of S  S 
Student Ticket Sale
TECH BARBER 
SHOP
Time For That Haircut
in the matinee house Thursday, 
May 13.
After Thursday, April 22 tick
ets may be purchased at the pub
lic rates in Skibo from 11:30 to 
1:30 Mondays through Fridays, at 
Gimbels public service ticket 
booth, or by mail order to Scotch 
and Soda club.The matinee Thursday, May 13 
which will open the Spring Car
nival is being performed for the 
benefit of high school students and 
Pittsburgh housewives who wish 
to see a college revue at its best, 
but tickets will be available to 
anyone who wishes to take advan
tage of this opportunity.The complete house for the 
Thursday evening show May 13 
has already been sold out to stu
dents from the fraternities and 
Citcom clan.
The Church Of The Redeemer
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street 
HUGH S. CLARK, RECTOR 
---------------------??---------------------
. SUNDAY SERVICES 
Holy Communion .................................................................. 8 a. m.
Morning Prayer and Sermon .......................................... 11 a. m.(Holy Communion on 1st Sunday of Month at 11 a. m.) 
Luncheon for Students' immediately after 11:00 a. m. Service 
on the first Sunday of every month, in the Parish House, fol
lowed by Canterbury Club Meeting.
also:
Every Thursday at Carnegie Inn (11:301:30)
All Students Welcome
Gifford Asks 
NewCommittee
Edwin N. Gifford, junior drama 
student, has proposed the forma
tion of a Student Curriculum com
mittee. His proposal will come 
before Student Council tomorrow. 
According to Gifford, the Purpose 
of this committee is to open a 
channel of opinion to the admin
istration regarding the course of 
study of the student body.
Gifford explained that, Several 
students have expressed a desire 
for improvements and changes in 
certain courses and have found 
that there has been no outlet for 
either their opinion or wishes. 
Gifford went on, I have spoken 
to Director Johnstone of Fine Arts 
and Dean Dickenson, and they 
feel that the idea of the committee 
is worthy of investigation. Con
sidering the fact that the idea has 
worked at Cornell and Ohio State, 
I can see no reason why it can not work here.
While I realize that a similar 
plan exists in the Student-Faculty 
liason committee, which applies 
only to the college of engineering, 
there is no plan encompassing the 
entire school.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 20, 1948
Sportscope
Spend Money To Get 
Good Softball Umpires
By William Schnitgen
Last weeks column concerning the sad plight of officiat
ing in CITs intramural program seems to have served its pur
pose by arousing some interest among the persons involved. 
At least quite a few claimed the blame does not lie with them.
In all fairness to the men who have acted as referees in 
the past it must be said that some were quite proficient in the 
performance of their duties.
However, this group Is definitely
in the minority.
The intramural board and the 
intramural department, through 
their diligent efforts, have set up 
a very satisfactory program. Their 
task now is to insure its success 
by improving the officiating.
With spring comes rain, sun
shine, and softball. Now that the 
board has decided upon a three 
league softball program with 
twenty-four participating teams, 
action is due to commence at any 
time on the four usable fields. 
FJans call for four games each 
afternoon with postponed contests 
to be settled as twilight games.
This schedule calls for 168 
games over the course of two 
months. The teams are ready, but 
at the time of this writing the 
supply of umpires is a major bot
tleneck. Operations on such a 
large scale would seem to call 
for a horde of officials, both out
standing, efficient and otherwise.
I would like to offer a plan to 
solve this problem which would 
call for a lot of work on the part 
of the intramural department and 
the men who desire to umpire.
As only four games are played 
daily I would select the officials 
from those volunteering to um
pire. Two squads of four men 
would alternate daily with two 
substitutes ready for emergency 
use.
These men would be required 
to attend a two hour clinic on 
rule interpretation and pass a 
written test before being accepted. 
For their work they could be 
paid $1.50 or $2.00 per game. This 
expenditure at the $2.00 rate 
would amount to $336 over the 
season. Base umpires could be 
furnished by the opposing teams 
with each contributing one man.
Of course the intramural board 
will rightfully insist this is too 
large a cash outlay and that they 
havent the money. I suggest com
plaining to the proper branch of 
the administration. Tuition is 
nearly double the amount it was 
in 1942, yet last summer on sev
eral occasions the only bats avail
able were pick handles.
This is only one mans opinion 
and possibly a poor one at that. 
But if interested people will 
make some suggestions, the intra
mural board can iron them out 
at their weekly meetings and add 
ideas of their own to present an 
adequate solution to the officiat
ing problem.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lundies
Three Stores In the College District
6808 Fortes Strait Squirrel Hill
8714 Ftrbts Strait, Oakland
Main Plant!
8380 Bultvard if Um Clllar
ATO Leads 
In Trophy 
Competition
As the opening of intramural 
softball season approaches, the an
nual Sportsmanship Trophy com
petition is close, with leading Al
pha Tau Omega only 12 points 
ahead of the last place organiza
tion.
In second place is Pi Kappa Al
pha, with Beta Theta Pi, Phi 
Kappa, and Beta Sigma Rho fol
lowing in that order.
In sixth place rests Theta Xi, 
leading contender for the AllPoints Trophy.
Sportsmanship ratings are giv
en competing teams after each 
contest with these five points as 
the basis: (1) general team sports
manship, (2) promptness of play, 
(3) substitution policy, (4) clean
ness of play and speech, and (5) 
cooperation with officials. The 
scores are based on a maximum 
of 100 points per game. A forfeit 
automatiaclly gives the losing 
team a zero rating.
While winning the school bas
ketball championship, the PiKas 
pushed within 3.3 points of the 
pace-setting ATOs, who have 
maintained an 87.5 average. The 
Betas, runner-up in the basket
ball tournament, are only one 
point away from the second spot 
and still five more teams have 
held averages above 80.
Intramural board representa
tive Otto Abraham stated that in
troduction of the present system 
has definitely improved the play 
in athletic contests.
Present figures include the foot
ball, volleyball, and basketball 
tournaments, but have not taken
Pitt Educators Top PiKA, 46-37 
In Intramural Basketball Playoff
CIT Winners Take Early Lead, 
Then Lose To Pitt Grid Stars
Football Notice
Spring football practice will 
start on Monday, April 26, with 
30 veterans from last season 
leading the turnout, Coach Bill 
Donohoe has announced. Re
turning to aid Donohoe will be 
A1 Irwin and George McMillan, 
line coaches, and Walter Burns 
and Virgil Cantini, backfield 
coaches.
The purpose of the Spring 
practice is to make up for the 
short practice periods in the 
fall. The two week drills will 
consist of extensive blackboard 
instruction, dummy scrim
mages, and sprint drills to get 
the players legs in condition. 
There will be heavy contact 
work.
Kappa Sigs Win 
Foul Shooting Title
With 198 points out of a possi
ble 250, the Kappa Sigs beat out 
the Theta Xis by four shoots to 
capture the intramural basketball 
crown last Monday, April 12, in 
the gym.
The first elimination had pre
viously narrowed the competition 
to the Phi Kaps, Tau Delts, Theta 
Xis, Emanon, and Kappa Sigs.
The individual contest ended in 
a dead heat between Buddy 
Yorkin of Tau Delta Phi and Bill 
Stewart of Theta Xi with 42 out 
of 50 in the qualifying round and 
44 out of 50 in the final. The two 
contenders will shoot off for the 
championship later this week.
into account the soccer and soft
ball schedules. Final statistics, 
however, will include both of the 
latter sports.The following is the standing of 
the organizations:
Alpha Tau Omega ....................................87.5Pi Kappa Alpha .......................................84.2
Beta Theta Pi ................................................83.2Phi Kappa .....................................................82.4Beta Sigma Rho .........................................82.3Theta Xi .......................................................82.2
Kappa Sigma ..............................................81.4Sigma Alpha Epsilon ............................80.5Emanon ...........................................................78.6
Delta Tau Delta ...........................................78.2Delta Upsilon ................................................78.2
Citcom .............................................................78.0FPHA ................................................................77.1Sigma Nu .......................................................75.9Tau Delta Phi ...........................................75.7
Dorm Combine .........................................75.1
Warren K. Vieth* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Test
DON'T be a pig. Youll only end up a ham. Dont selfishly 
spend all your money on your girl. Spend some on yourself. 
Start grooming your hair with Wildroot Cream Oil and look 
doggy! Just a little bit of Wildroot Cream-Oil grpoms your 
hair neatly and naturally without that greasy, slicked-down 
look. Relieves annoying dryness and removes loose, ugly dan
druff. Helps you pass the Finger-nail Test! And Wildroot 
Cream-Oil hair tonic is non-alcoholic  contains soothing 
Lanolin. Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil at any 
drug or toilet goods counter today. And ask your barber for 
a professional application. Dont be piggish get the large 
economy size so your roommate can share it(he will anyway) 
jjc of 23 Hamilton Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Unable to keep up with the fast 
breaking offense of their oppon
ents, Carnegies intramural cham
pions, the PiKAs, succumbed to 
Pitts IM champs, the Physical Ed
ucation majors, by a 46-37 score 
on the Pitt stadium hardwood on 
Tuesday, April 13, giving the 
Panther aggregation the intra
mural crown of Oakland.
The Pitt men employed a very 
fast break, often sending three 
men down the court with the ball
Swimming Team 
Holds Banquet
Dave Luckey and Robin Molny were elected co-captains of next 
years swimming team at a team 
banquet held last week. The team 
discussed plans for the improve
ment of next years squad. Coach 
Clark Sofield and Luckey, who 
was captain this season, gave short speeches.
before the Tartans could get back 
on defense. After the PiKAs 
jumped into an early lead, they 
made the serious mistake of try
ing to match' this give-and-go, fast 
breaking game of the Educators.
The Panthers, all varsity grid 
men and in perfect physical condi
tion after three weeks of spring 
football practice, quickly tired the 
Skibo five. Previously, the PiKAs 
had swept through their schedule 
to the intramural crown with a 
cool, deliberate style of play 
which usually managed to slow 
their opponents game.
Razzano and Short were the in
dividual stars for the Educators, 
scoring 16 and 12 points respec
tively. In addition to his scoring 
prowess, Short completely con
trolled both backboards. Skladany, 
husky Pitt guard, turned in an 
outstanding defensive game in 
holding Chuck Hawley, high scor
ing PiKA forward, scoreless from 
the floor.
Distributors for A. G. Spalding & Bros.
Shea Sporting Goods Co.
Athletic Equipment for Intramural 
and Varsity Teams
3530 Forbes Street Tel. SC. 6061
Second Floor of Flannery Building
SPALDING
CADDY, HAVE THEY SHORTENED 
1HIS - COURSE?
MOSlfc,rrt -TKO& 
NBVJ SPALDIN6yjooosycuREUSING/
THE 6REENS SEEM A. LOT NEARER WHEN SOO SWITCH 
TO SPALDING WOODS/ 
Mew models*...perfectly
BALANCED TO PUT MORE 
"SWINGING WEIGHT" BEHIND THE BALL.... ADD POWER 
AMD ACCURACY TO YOUR. WOOD GAME.... THEtR 
PATENTED 6RIP GROOVES 
VOCJR GRIP THE SAME WCf TOR EVERY SWING*
NEW
SPALDING
WOODS
NEWJtlAMY THOMSON
WOODS
Dot and T*p-Mito at ytw Pro Mily.
SPALDING SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN0
Health Plan Broadened 
To Give Athletes Aid
Varsity, Intramural Teams Receive 
Protection Under New Program
Carnegie Tech athletes, long in 
need of protection against the 
high cost of medical expenses in
curred by injuries, have finally 
received aid from school authori
ties through an addition to the 
student health program to cover 
such accidents.
Dr. D. F. Miner, director of stu
dent personnel and welfare, has 
announced that The student 
health program has been broad
ened to take care of a reasonable 
amount of emergency medical ex
penses resulting from injuries in
curred during authorized partici
pation in physical education and 
athletic programs. The plan has 
already received the approval of 
President Robert E. Doherty.
The first progress toward this
Softball Leagues 
Open Tomorrow
Intramural softball competition 
begins tomorrow with 24 teams 
competing in three leagues for the 
school championship.Because of the large number 
participating, four fields will be 
used. Two diamonds are on the 
Cut and two are located on the soccer field. Both afternoon and 
twilight games will be played on 
each field.The season, extending through 
the end of May, will see games 
played Monday through Friday of 
each week with the exception of 
Spring Carnival time. Contests, 
each of seven innings,' will start 
promptly at 4:40. In the event of 
rain, four complete innings played 
will be considered a finished game.
Height5 5.Broad JumpWon by Webb (C); Riehl (CIT), second; Debrieini (C) and Teats (C) tied for third. Distance20 1.Mile RelayWon by Case (Miller, Smith, Hill Churchill). Time2:42.
objective was made last fall by 
the Intramural board, which at
tempted to secure a $250 annual 
appropriation from the health 
fund for medical expenses of in
tramural athletes. The student 
health committee and the board 
failed to reach a decision, and no 
results were forthcoming until Dr. 
Miner and the board recently for
mulated the present plan and se
cured President Dohertys ap
proval.
Under the plan the school has 
arranged a working agreement 
with the Presbyterian hospital to 
care for serious injuries. In or
der to receive such care through 
the school, however, injured ath
letes must report to the school 
doctor whose recommendation is 
a necessary step in completing ar
rangements. In the absence of the 
doctor, either the nurse on duty or Mr. David See, head of intra
mural activities, may approve 
emergency cases.
The new plan not only covers 
injuries in intramural athletics 
but also those in physical educa
tion classes and varsity athletics, 
both of which had previously not 
been covered.
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problem 
To Us
88 TEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
Case Tops 
Carnegie In 
Opening Meet
Carnegie lost the first track meet 
of the season to Case at the Skibo 
Bowl on Saturday, April 17, but 
a Plaid thinclad walked off with 
the individual honors.Ernie Cassler, veteran Tartan 
. sprinter, romped home in front 
in both the 100-yard dash and the 220-yard dash as Case took over 
the Skibo trackmen, 74%-47%.
Davies, Tarfan 880 yard runner, 
ran his fastest half mile in taking 
that event in 2:02. Riehl took the 
high jump to give Carnegie its other first.
Jim Trautman showed the fruits of hard work by taking second in 
the shot put and discus throws.
Churchill, of Case, was out
standing for his team, taking the 
440 yard run in 52:02 and over
coming a ten yard lead to win the mile relay.
This Saturday, April 24, Car
negie meets Geneva at Beaver 
Falls and a week later the thinclads play host to Grove City at the Tartan Bowl.
100-yard dashWon by Cassler (CIT); Johnson (CIT), second; Lyons (C), third. Time:10.4.
220-yard dashWon by Cassler (CIT); Johnson (CIT), second; Lyons (C), third. Time:23.5.
440-yard dashWon by Churchill (C); Yarian (CIT), second; Hill (C), third. Time:52.2.
120-yard high hurdlesWon by Barrett (C); Debrecini (C), second; Green (CIT), third. Time: 16.2.120-yard low hurdlesWon by Debrecini (C); Barrett (C), second; Ickes (CIT), third. Time:14.2.Half-mile runWon by Davies (CIT); 
Smith (C), second; Dorman (CIT), third. Time2:02.Mile runWon by Dehn (C); DeCesare (C), second; Warner (CIT), third. Time4:54.9.Two-mile runWon by DeCesare (C); Cockrell (CIT), second; Dehn (C), third. Time10:53.4.Pole VaultTie for first between Hasbrouck (C) and Rogers (C); Green (CIT), third. Height9 6.Shot PutWon by Gerace (C); Trautman (CIT), second; Reed (C), third. Distance34 2.DiscusWon by Hulbert (C); Trautman (CIT), second; Flynn (CIT), third. Distance108 2.High JumpWon by Riehl (CIT); Burdett (C), second; Hammann (CIT), third.
And heres another great record. .jVIorc people ane smoking (ii llliW than ever before C
Golf, Tennis Team Candidates 
Move Out-of-doors For Trials
Sports hopefuls will be pound
ing the pellets in an attempt to 
gdin varsity berths as candidates 
for positions in tennis and golf 
complete their play-off games and 
rounds.
Golf coach Clarence Buddy 
Overend will be out to pare his 
28 charges to a six man team with
2 alternates in two rounds at the 
Pittsburgh Field Club on April
19 and 22.
Overend is confident of better
ing last seasons record of three 
wins, two losses, and one tie.
Lettermen Ralph W. Sill, Wil
liam Dean, and G. G. OBrien III along with promising Dick Ray, 
Richard Holland, and J. M. Young 
are top notch contenders for starting positions.
After being forced inside by 
inclement weather during the past 
week, the Tartan tennis team will 
again attempt to start their in
tra-squad duels. These singles 
tournaments ^re to furnish coach 
Frank Moses with an indication 
of the calibre of this years tennis team.
"Beg $>ur IWon
Its RUSS MORGANS top Detta Record I
This dame must think Im Dick Tracy! Nobody can resist delicious, clean tasting Dentyne Chewing 
Gum. Nobody can pass up that rich, long lasting 
flavor. She knows Dentyne helps keep teeth white 
and smiles bright. Yet I should find the guy who 
itole her Dentyne. If I could do that Id be the 
D.A.!Dentyne Gum  Made Only By Adams
Its Morgan at his best... sweet swing 
at its best...in this new Decca platter.
When it comes to cigarettes,
Russ says in his typical Morgan Manner, 
Camels suit my T-Zone to a T. 
Millions of smokers agree with 
Russ about Camels. More people are 
smoking Camels than ever before.
Try Camels on your T-Zone
Find out for yourself why, with 
smokers who have tried and compared, 
Camels are the choice of experience.
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem, N.
j_-n v
dTATiOI 
 5- I
It contained my car keys, $20 and a 
whole package of Dentyne Chewing Gum!

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 20, 1948
____________rm
f f AJ. X    J. LJIIIVIYV VlIvlJtvl.ItvlU.
VOL.4 1 NLoN .2 010N4NC0 AR 2L.4oCNC0 0.A1EE. O1L4NLG
Chesterfield is my brand. I've been smoking them for 
about 16 years. I like them because they're mild and really satisfy. I know the kind of tobacco thats in 
them ... it's the best.
**Chesterfield buys the best grades of tobacco. It's mild, light, ripe, sweet-smoking tobacco. They pay the 
highest prices for their tobacco. It's top quality leaf."
Pi Mu Alpha
Fourteen men were initiated last 
week into Phi Mu Alpha, mens 
musical honorary fraternity. Fol
lowing the formal initiation in the 
Exhibition Room of the Fine Arts 
Building, the new members were 
guests of honor at a banquet at 
the Fairfax Dining Room.
The new Sinfonians are: Peter 
N. Altobelli, James F. Baughman, 
Ben E. Benack, Roland W. Dollhapf, J. Frederick Gentry, Rich
ard K. Hoch, John A. Oates, Har
old Rubenstein, A. Duane Sample, 
Joseph Stecko, C. Dean Streator, 
James D. Thompson, Charles W. 
Tritle, and Anthony P. Zukasky. 
Professor Goesta Andreasson was 
made an honorary member.
The next talk in Phi Mu Alphas 
lecture series will be presented on 
April 29 by Nikolai Lopatnikoff, 
music department faculty member
 ? i.e.
[Continued from page 2]
States senator or a Carnegie Tech 
Student Council member, having 
no idea of what his constituents 
desire, legislates whimsically and 
haphazardly or, worse yet, in fav
or of the most powerful lobby-ist. 
This happens in the halls of Con
gress today. It happens in civic 
and state government also. It hap
pens at CIT.
The only way to make such de
generate democracy work (if 
such a thing is desirable) is to 
make sure that those who do vote, 
do so with clear heads and wise 
decision. Meaningless slogans and 
foundationless promises serve only 
to confuse the real and more vital 
issues. Therefore, dont be swayed 
by the tide of emotion that a few 
well chosen words may evoke. In
stead, contain yourself in the 
channels of thought clarity and 
act as an individual.
This time the Student Council 
campaign will not be passive nor the candidates lax. Let us resolve 
ourselves now, before the cam
paign swings into high gear, that 
we will not become victims of 
unfounded words. Consider the 
jllatforms of all candidates and 
make certain that the people you 
elect will not turn out to be Wednesday afternoon dullards.
Scottie Sale
Last of April
This months Scottie will be the 
official Spring Carnival program 
and will go on sale the last week 
of April in Skibo and Adminis
tration hall.
Features of the issue will be a 
scoop on the Carnival Court, 
the listing and description of Car
nival events, a preview of Scotch 
and Sodas Musical The Ladys 
at Work, and Scottys own choice 
for Carnival Queen.
This year the Scotty in coopera
tion with ODK and Spring Carni
val committee is offering the spec
ial issue plus the officisfl carnival 
program for the one price of 25 
cents.
Bulletin Board
Citcom Clan
Citcom Clan is planning a Chas
er Party at Carnegie Union on 
Thursday, May 14. It will begin 
immediately after the evening 
performance of the Scotch and 
Soda revue. Admission to the par
ty will be 35c per person.
A Campus Caper will be held 
at the Union on Saturday, April 
24. The program includes danc
ing, badminton, softball, and re
freshments, all for 60c per person.
All members of Citcom in good 
standing are invited to a spring 
picnic at Parrish Hill in North 
Park for which no admission will 
be charged. The date is Saturday, 
May 29. The date of a street-car 
party will be announced in the 
near future.
Se8trytUNDtER WAR  WUt HER 
KCI FP IFOThuS
CORONER CREEK"
COLUMBIAS FORTHCOMING 
CINEC0L0R PRODUCTION
. CuAOrtMs
TOBACCO FARMER, PARIS. KY

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
* * THE CARNEGIE PLAID * *______Pflge Edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology
SnS Club Preparing 
The Ladys at Work
This year the Scotch & Soda Club is planning to stage 
one of the greatest productions since its inception. With The 
Ladys a:t Work, S&S hopes to begin a series of revues of 
general public interest rather than limiting its scope to Car
negie students.
The show opens on May 11 for three evening perform
ances and one matinee on May 13A 
Provision has ben made to sell
tickets to Evening School students 
in Mr. McKelways office 132-A I.
H. Prices ar $2.80, $2.40 and $1.80 
for the evening shows. Tickets for 
the matinee Will go at $1.30 for all seats.
As in th past, the S&S Club is 
composed of students from all 
departments of the school. Engi
neers and arts students alike are 
working on all phases of the pro
duction. This years revue is the 
sixth in the series and is ex
pected to b the finest yet. With 
27 songs written by George Wood, 
drama senior, and 115 costumesdesigned b A1 Lehman, the show
will present a complete view of todays working women.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor Cecille Zellner 
News Editor 
Anne Shack Associate Editors George Bogovich Catherine RomanoffPage edited by Evening School stu
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technolo
gy. All views or opinions expressed in 
editorial column are not necessarily en
dorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
StaffLou Adams George Dawes
Ray Schwalm Charlene J. Tohey
Bill Wallace A1 SnowdenFrank Mihelic Jim FlahertyPat Schaffer
Two kinds of dollars
The Dollars that RUN the Business
Thse are the dollars you send to us every time you pay 
yottr telephone bill. Theyre the dollars that grow out of 
the nickels that you deposit when you use pay telephones. 
Thyr the dollars that we take in for providing the best 
possible telephone service at the lowest possible cost.
These dollars run the telephone business. They pay our 
taxes and our rent and our light and our heat. They pay 
wages ahd the benefits and pensions telephone employees 
enjoy. They pay interest to bondholders and dividends to 
stockholders for the use of their money.
Any of these dollars that have nothing to do after paying 
all that they have to pay  and there are never many  are 
put away for a rainy day.
The Dollars that BUILD the Business
These are the dollars  saved by school teachers, widows, 
farmers, business men, telephone men and women and other 
everyday people in all walks of life  with which telephone 
seourifies are bought.
With these dollars, new central offices are built and 
equipped, other central offices are enlarged, and all tele
phone equipment  switchboards, dial mechanisms, wire 
and cable, telephone instruments  are bought.
These are the dollars that build the business  that 
enable us to meet increasing demands for telephone service 
by expanding our facilities to provide it . . . that enable us 
to make the continual improvements that bring you the best 
possible telephone service at the lowest possible cost.
We must pay for the use of these dollars. Those who 
supply them expect us to keep them safe and to keep them 
productive.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA
Spelunking ] I Council To SpOIlSOr
Swim Party, Movie
Last year the National Speleo
logical Society formed a Pitts
burgh Grotto and elected, as pres
ident, Wilbert R. Schnarrenberger, a chemistry student in evening school at C. I. T.
The National Speleological Society is a society formed by a 
group interested in cave explor
ing. They call themselves  Spelunkers. Occasionally, these brave 
souls plan expeditions to prominent caves and also new caves 
which have not as yet been explored.
There is much beauty and in
trigue in these caves. The Spelunkers take ropes and old para
phernalia and lower themselves into balcony ledges and cascading 
pits far below the earths surface 
In Schoolhouse Cave near Phila
delphia, they have discovered 
several different rock formations 
which they call the Sand Room, 
Doom Room, Jacbs Ladder, Balcony, Keyhole, Big Bite, 
Guillotine, Angel Roost, and Judgment Seat.
Will Schnarrenberger will be glad to furnish further informa
tion and details to anyone inter
ested in this organization. Inquire 
through interschool mail, Box 256
Engineers Banquet 
Is Big Success
The ballroom of the Hotel Hen
ry was filled by celebrating night 
school engineers on the night of 
Saturday, April 10 as they attend
ed the annual Engineers banquet. 
Featuring fine food, hearty gags, 
and spicy entertainment, the ban
quet was acclaimed a success by 
all. The main speaker of the eve
ning was Dr. Creutz of the physics 
department who spoke on nuclear 
research.
Evening Council Gives 
Achievement Award
To stimulate outstanding schol
arship, personal achievement, and 
participation in extra-curricular 
activities by regularly enrolled 
students in evening school, an 
achievement award has been es
tablished and sponsored by eve
ning student council.
Each year the candidates for 
the bachelors degree in evening 
school are considered for this 
award. Their scholastic and activ
ity records are examined in re
lation to their personal traits and 
characteristics and the type as 
well as responsibility of their 
employment. The length of time 
in which they complete their re
quirements for degrees, the prom
ise which they show for future 
success and the extent to which 
they participate in activities of 
campus, non-campus, profession
al or technical societies are all 
considered in awarding, the hon
or.
Movie Dance Promises Variety 
Of Orchestras in Thistle Hall
With all the high water we have been having lately, May 1st 
would be a fine time to make some good use of Natures gift to man
kind while it is so plentiful. To those who dont care to fish for re
creation, the evening student council is offering a swimming party for 
anyone owning a bathing suit, either modern or the new look, in 
conjunction with a movie dance. The combination of these activities 
will be held in the gymnasium building at which time student
* council will wind up its last sched
uled social event for the present 
school year.
The doors of the swimming pool 
will be open from 8:00 until 10:00 
and Thistle Hall will be available 
for dancing from 9:00 to 1:00. This 
will give everyone a chance to 
have their dip in the pool and 
still have plenty of time to finish 
off the evening by dancing to a 
few orchestras. Swimming as well 
as dancing are optional, but both 
are offered for a complete evening 
of entertainment.
Not forgetting the hungry appe
tites acquired by the vigorous ex
ercises, the Black Cat will be open 
with refreshments to replace the 
empty feeling often felt during 
intermissions.
There will be no advance billing 
on the orchestras for the dance, 
but we can report that this being 
a movie dance, you will be danc
ing to the best bands in the land.
To all you gals who are ready to complain about having your 
hair all wet and messed up from swimming before going to the 
dancewe can only sympathize 
with you; but this is a wonderful 
time to let your hair down and 
youll have a lot of company. We 
wont have time to look at your 
hair if we are watching the or
chestras on the screen under the 
low lights of the movie camera!
Before entering the activities for 
the evening we will accept your 
generous donation of $.50 at the 
door to help curb expenses.
RODGER'S 
DAIRY
Try our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made with pure whole 
milk
RODGER'S
Dairy Stores
3905 FORBES STREET * 
Near Boquet 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig 
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside 
Other stores downtown
Candidates are recommended to 
evening student council by a com
mittee consisting of the supervisor 
of evening classes, registrar of 
evening classes and their selec
tion of other faculty members. 
This years committee consisted of 
Directors Cleeton, Jones, Warren; 
Professor Muhlenbruch, and reg
istrar of evening classes, Mr. McKelway.
The award consists of the fol
lowing: the students name en
graved on a plaque that will be 
displayed in a prominent place in the administration building; a key 
with the recipients name and a 
certificate stating the basis of the 
award presented to the student. 
This presentation takes place at 
the Annual Engineers Banquet 
held by the engineering students.
The award was originally con 
ceived by Professor Muhlenbruch 
and Mr. McKelway. Mr. Chester 
Biscup, a student leader of many 
years and present advisor to 
council, designed and detailed the 
plaque and key. Council present 
ed this award for the first time 
last year to Stephen W. Marcinizyn (mechanical engineer)
who was a worthy recipient for 
his many years of service to eve
ning students, outstanding schol
astic accomplishments, and success 
in his chosen field. At present Mr. 
Marcinizyn is teaching thermo
dynamics.
This years awardee was Nor
man Martello, a chemical engi
neering student, who achieved 
this honor by meritorious attain
ments in school, work and activ
ities.
3 Hour Dry Cleaning 
Raincoats Showerproofed
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St. MUseum 1288
EASIERQUICKERNEATER...when you useEBERHARD FABER
ERASERS for

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 20, 1948
One of the Girls
"Nancy Wickwire'
As with most deep people, 
when you get to know her you 
dont know what you know.
Hed depth has earned for 
Nancy Wickwire the Norman 
Apell award for the most promis
ing senior drama student. It has 
produced an average factor of 3.5, 
and more re
cently, it won 
for her 
priv i 1 e g e of 
working under 
B. Iden Payne 
as assistant di
rector of The 
Taming of the 
Shrew.
Nancy is an 
intense person.
Her voice has a penetrating, vibrant quality that 
conveys the feeling of underlying 
turbulence. It is said that, on 
awakening, Nancy is as pink
cheeked and dewey-eyed as a 
baby, but, on the street, she car
ries with her an air of dignity 
that adds inches to her five feet 
seven.
At the age of seven, Nancy was 
sent to dancing school as a cure 
for shyness, and from there she 
moved up to high school plays, 
operettas, and the Harrisburg 
Community Playhouse. Nancy lik
ed St. Joan and Ibsens Ghost 
among the plays in which 
has acted here. I guess its 
because I think I did my best 
work as Joan and Mrs. Alvin. 
Thats an egotistical way of judg
ing, though. I enjoyed doing Regan in Lear, too.
In the summer of 1944, Nancy 
worked at the Cherry Lane Thea
tre in New York City. The follow
ing summers, she spent at the 
University Playhouse in Mashpee, 
Mass. and she expects to return 
there after graduating in June.
Moreivood Gardens
[Continued from page 3] 
required with each application. 
Room drawing will be conducted 
from a chart since the occupants 
will not be able to see the rooms 
until the end of the summer.
The rates for room and two 
meals a day are $560 for single 
rooms and $510 for doubles for a 
year.
Dr. Mehl
[Continued from page 1] 
dowing an Annual Lecture.
These Hadfield Memorial Lec
tures are held in connection with 
the Annual General Meeting of 
the Iron and Steel Institute, 
which includes members of the 
Royal Society and Sheffield Uni
versity.
After his lecture in London, 
Prof. Mehl will travel to Sweden 
where he will deliver two more 
lectures. These lectures will be 
before the Metallographers So
ciety and Jern Kontoret (the 
Swedish Iron and Steel Institute).
On June 2, Prof. Mehl will sail 
for home on the Queen Mary.
PiDE Holds Banquet 
Honoring New Pledges
At the annual dinner of Pi Delta Epsilon, journalism honorary, 
the following new pledges will be accepted: Myra J. Barry, Helen 
Brody, Dorothy Kane, L. Adams, Walter Ambrose, William And-erson, 
George Baur, John Biewener, John Bigley, Philip Birnbaum, John 
Bolton, J. Fred Brown, Richard Cutkosky, Richard Dunbar, J. Barry 
Evans, John Ewart, Edward Friedman, William Hasek, Robert Hazard, 
Robert Johnson, Martin McCurdy, Gerald Peck, Allan Poe, James 
Reynolds, David Royse, David*
Sapper, Alan Stark, Don Stitt, and 
Stuart Williams. Two graduates, 
William Cohen and Milton Perloff, 
will be asked to join by proxy.
The dinner schedule, for tonight 
at 6:00 p.m. in the Carnegie Union 
is for the purpose of presenting 
the student award for unusual 
work in a non-executive capacity, 
besides providing an opportunity 
for members of the various pub
lications to meet informally.
The pledges were nominated for 
membership by the editors of the 
publications for which they work, 
and their applications were approved by members of Pi Delta 
Epsilon.
As toastmaster, Walter Burns, 
Pittsburgh broker and former pro
fessional football player, will in
troduce Bert Powpowski, past as
sociate editor of LOOK Magazine 
and a present member of the 
printing department faculty. Mr. 
Powpowski will speak on his ex
periences with editorial policy and 
handling of copy.
PHIUP MORRIS
is so much 
better to smoke!
PHILIP MORRIS offers the smoker an extra 
benefit found in no other cigarette. For Prefen 
tiaael is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recog
nized by leading nose and throat specialists as 
definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more 
smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what Prefen 
tiaael smokers know, theyd all change to 
PHILIP MORRIS.
TRY A PACK... TODAY
Health Service 
Functions, System 
Are Explained
The Health Service of Carnegie 
Tech is designed to provide for 
emergency illnesses and accidents 
for the benefit of all full-time stu
dents.
Dr. Marcell Helsel and Dr. Paul 
Rike are available at their offices 
in the gymnasium during their 
regular office hours. Dr. Helsels 
hours are from 12:30 until 2:00, 
Dr. Rikes, from 3:30 until 5:00.
Should hospitalization be nec
essary, arrangements are in ef
fect with Presbyterian hospital 
for admitting the students to semi
private rooms, the cost of which 
will be borne by the school for a 
maximum of seven days. All oth
er costs, such as medicihe and operating room expenses, must be 
borne by the student.
Council
[Continued from page 11
change both the method of voting 
and counting of ballots. The Ulti
mate result would be elimination 
of the preferential voting system. 
Action on the motion was tabled 
for one week.
President Ted Ulrich appointed 
Ed Gifford as head of an inves
tigating committee to report on 
the feasability of forming a cur
riculum committee as a regular 
part of Council. Such a committee 
would be empowered to suggest 
additions or changes to the admin
istration concerning the composi
tion and scheduling of courses in 
the various schools. Giffords orig
inal motion to form this commit
tee was reproposed as an amend
ment to the constitution by-laws 
by Jack Ewart. The motion was 
tabled for one week.
The revjsed system of mens 
points requirements for Delta 
Skull and Scimitar were accepted 
with the amendments that mem
bership in fraternities, Citcom 
clan, and the Varsity C club 
each be allowed a maximum of five 
points.
A motion by Negley Reed that 
the Thistle staff elections be ac
cepted was approved. Pi Delta Ep
silon was awarded $35 to cover 
part of the expense of the pub
lications dinner.
Revisions made in the CWCA 
constitution were accepted. Ap
proval was given a motion by 
Jack Seward to postpone consid
eration of WCITs constitution for 
one week while requesting that a 
member of WCIT appear before 
Council to explain the provisions.
C. B. Groomes motion to ac
cept practice for intercollegiate 
athletics as a legal excuse for ab
sence from Council meetings was 
approved. Petitions from Kappa 
Kappa Gamma to hold a closed 
dance on June 4 and from Deltd 
Delta Delta to hold a closed picnic 
on April 24 were approved.
