Janet HartonB-Tower Eileen Mauclair  KKG Carole SmithC-Tower Linda Jaffers
Susan KochSK
CARNEGIETARTAN
TARNMECM CNHICILIM OY IMTUNOGOES
VOLUME 55  NUMBER 21 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 1963
Belles Vie For Military Ball Crown
Red And Silver Meters Become 
Omnipresent On Tech Parking Lots
Student Body Selects Queen 
From 11 Charming Contestants
Within the next few days some 
new inhabitants will be found in 
the Skibo and Margaret Morrison 
St. parking lots. Mechanistic by 
construction, they will perform 
the service of providing more
Sampl es Flood 
Tech Campus 
After Easter
For almost a year now, Alpha 
Phi Omega has been negotiating 
with a New York advertising 
agency to get Campus Pacs for 
Techs campus. For those stu
dents who have not heard about 
Campus Pacs, they contain pack
ages of sample products. Approx
imately 160,000 of these were 
distributed on such campuses as 
Yale, Cornell, Princeton, and the 
University of Pennsylvania last 
year and the agency, Eugene Gil
bert Co., plans to distribute 200,-
000 this year. Last years pac 
contained after shave lotion, Corricidin Cold Tablets, a razor, 
shaving cream, Turns, and other 
like products for the men and a 
corresponding assortment 
for women. The total retail value 
was about $4.
At the moment, not all of the 
(continued on page 7)
adequate parking facilities for 
Techs students, faculty, and per
sonnel, as well as for visitors to 
our campus. These machines are 
the parking meters presently be
ing installed by the administra
tion.
With the advent of these meters 
there comes a subsequent change 
in the procedure for the use of the 
various lots about the campus. 
The gated lots at Skibo, AH, Fine 
Arts, and Forbes Hall remain as 
only faculty lots. Likewise, the 
ungated lots at Scaife Hall and 
below EH are still faculty lots. 
The paved section below Donnor 
Hall is not a parking lot however, 
being reserved solely for athletic 
functions. Car found parked in this 
area will be towed away. The 
Morewood Gardens lot will con
tinue to operate on a 24-hour 
basis for all Semester permit 
holders. Anyone wishing such a 
permit may buy one at the Se
curity Office, AH 243.
In the ungated Skibo lot and in 
the Mai'garet Morrison St. lot two 
types of meters will be in use. 
Silver painted meters are pre
dominant. They are the 12-hour 
maximum meters which will be in 
effect Monday through Friday 
from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and 
Saturday from 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. Free parking will prevail 
during every night and on Sun
days. The rates on these meters 
are a minimum of 5 cents for 3 
hours, 10 cents for 6 hours, 15 
cents for 9 hours, and 20 cents for 
12 hours. The meters are equip
ped to take nickels, dimes, or 
quarters.
Six red-colored meters will be 
found in each lot. These are the
2-hour-maximum meters, requir
ing 5 cents. They are being in
stalled in areas where a rapid 
turnover of cars has been noted 
in the past.
Day and evening students who 
may wish to use these new, 
metered lots may obtain a Tech 
Identification Permit, at no 
charge, at the Skibo Information 
Desk or at the Security Office, 
AH 243.
As in the past the parking lots 
will be supervised by the Tech 
Security Police. If parking regu
lations are violated, the guilty 
party, or parties, will be subse
quently informed by the appear
ance of bright-red, ticket-envelope notices affixed to their wind
shields. Any fines, up to a $2.00 
maximum, may be placed in the 
envelope, and deposited in the ap
propriate boxes at the lot en
trances. Failure to comply will re
sult in a loss of parking privileges.
The eleven candidates for Mili
tary Ball Queen have been pre
sented to the student body in 
Skibo Ballroom by the members 
of Scabbard and Blade.
Tuesday, April 2 a general
Dorm Plans 
Sunken Party 
For Saturday
The Vice Presidents Council of 
Mens Dorm Council will sponsor 
a dorm party on Saturday, March 
30, from 8:30 to 12:30. The party 
will be held in the Donner Hall 
Lounge and will feature an un
derwater sunken treasure theme. 
Music will be provided by Leo 
Alman and his band.
This party will mark the third 
in a series of parties sponsored by 
Mens Dorm Council. The previ
ous events, a Christmas dance and 
a mourning party, were each 
attended by over 150 couples. For 
the first time, the council has en
listed the aid of Womens Dorm 
Council to add a feminine touch 
to the planning, and make the 
sunken treasure party even better 
than the ones that preceeded it.
The parties are open to all 
dorm residents. Men are required 
to wear coats and ties. The next 
in the series of dorm parties is 
scheduled for April 20.
student vote will reduce the can
didates to four finalists. The vot
ing will take place at voting sta
tions in Administration Hall and 
on the Cut. On Thursday, April 
4, these four candidates will be 
presented to the R. O. T. C. regi
ment. The cadets will vote to 
select the Honorary Colonel, who 
will reign as Military Ball Queen 
and Regimental Commander for 
the coming year. The runners-up 
will hold honorary rank of Lieu
tenant Colonel and fill the staff 
positions of Deputy Regimental
Commander, First Batallion Com
mander and Second Batallion 
Commander.
The Military Ball will be held 
Saturday, April 6, and will fea
ture The Harold Bettors Combo 
and Bobby Vinton Orchestra. 
Noted comedian Billy Webb will 
entertain during intermission and 
act as master of ceremonies dur
ing the presentation of the queen.
Tickets can be purchased at 
the voting stations, in the Mili
tary Office or from any member 
of Scabbard and Blade.
Student Congress
There will be a Student Con 
gress Meeting today, at 4:30 in 
Wherret Younge. All student 
that are interested are invited to 
attend.
DDDSandra Cook  Chi O
t W
Susan Berky  E-Tower Arlene KadishA-TowerEileen SharbaughJeanie Kean  AEPhi
Photos by Captain Shippers KAT

---------------------------------------------------

Pa*e 2  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, Mareh 27, 1963
This Week on Campus
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Wednesday, March 27  Carnegie Concert Series 
American Arts Trio, in residence at W. Va. 
University Carnegie Lecture Hall, 8:30 p.m. 
Friday, March 29  William Steinberg returns to Syrian 
Mosque, Italian pianist Lya de Barberii featured, 
Wilfrid Mellers Alba, Lopatnikiffs Falstaff 
Spmphonic Study with Two Interludes. 
Sunday, March 31  Contemporary Chamber Concert 
with Dance. Sponsored by Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia  
8:30 p.m., Skibo Ballroom 
Wednesday, April 3  Student Piano Recital  8:30 
p.m., Exhibition Hall, F.A.
EXHIBITIONS
Hewlett Gallery  Rubbings of New England grave
stones and Mayan reliefs  March 25-April 11
This Week in Pittsburgh
PLAYHOUSE
Hamlet Street Theater  Fifth Season 
Theater Upstairs  Anna Kleiber
Softball
Softball Rosters are due Wed
nesday, March 27, at the 4:30 In 
the gym.
Greek Sing
Pictures now available. Order 
from your Fraternity or Sorority 
representative or contact Aron 
Collons c/o Thistle, Box 122, 
Campus Mail. Price $1.25.
Engineering Trainees s6,000
Night school students with over two years 
and grade average over 2.5.
MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL
Call
Supplemental educational benefits 
with large Pittsburgh corporation.
. CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1-892
4150 Jenkins ArcadePittsburgh, 22
UMOC
The search for UMOC  Ugli
est man on Campus  is on in 
full force. UMOC is an annual 
contest sponsored by Alpha Phi 
Omega to raise funds for Cam
pus Chest. At a penny a vote, 
everyone will have the opportun
ity to stuff the ballot boxes on 
Monday and Tuesday, April 29, 
30, and Wednesday and Thursday, 
May 1 and 2. All student organi
zations are urged to enter this 
ugliest UMOC ever by sending 
the name of the organization and 
its president and a return address 
to UMOC c/o Alpha Phi Omega, 
Box 282, Campus Mail, before 
March 30. The name of the conClassified Ads
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters. reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses. Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel
ling errors corrected.
DANCE MUSIC  The Leo Alman 
Combe. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
FOR RENT. Large apartment for four 
students, Large living room, kitchen, 2 
bedrooms, bath, trunk room, nice neigh
borhood. plenty street parking. $140 per 
month JA. 1-24.97 after 2 p.m.
A Date With Your Future
NAVY'S 
BUREAU OF SHIPS 
RECRUITMENT 
REPRESENTATIVES
Will Be Interviewing 
Engineering and Science Students
on
MARCH 29, 1963
Representatives from the U. S. Naval Engineering Experi
ment Station at Annapolis, Maryland and the Philadelphia
Naval Shipyard will be available for appointments on the 
above date for students interested in openings throughout 
the Bureau of Ships organizations, comprising eleven U. S. 
Naval Shipyards (on both coasts), six major Jl & D Labo
ratories, the Bureau Headquarters in Washington, D. C., 
and the Naval Repaid Facility at San Diego. Typical cur
rent projects involve design work in naval architecture, new 
applications for nuclear power in vessels, and a wide variety 
of electronic systems engineering.
Contact thp Bureau of Placements for an appointment and 
an informative brochure on professional opportunities avail
able with the
RUREAU OF SHIPS 
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
testant need not be submitted at 
this time. To simplify the enter
ing procedure, Alpha Phi Omega 
has arranged to have the contest
ants ugly pictures taken on April 6.
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
On(!%fQSwithMaxSlrolman
(Author of'7 Was a Teen-age Dwarf The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis, etc.)
HOW TO GET EDUCATED 
ALTHOUGH ATTENDING COLLEGE
In your quest for a college degree, are you becoming a narrow 
specialist, or are you being educated in the broad, classical sense of the word?
This question is being asked today by many serious observers
 including my barber, my roofer, and my little dog Spot 
and it would be well to seek an answer.
Are we becoming experts only in the confined area of our 
majors, or does our knowledge range far and wide? Do we, for 
example, know who fought in the Battle of Jenkins Ear, or 
Kants epistemology, or Plancks constant, or Valsalvas maneu
ver, or what Wordsworth was doing ten miles above Tintern 
Abbey?
If we do not, we are turning, alas, into specialists. How 
then can we broaden our vistas, lengthen our horizonsbe
come, in short, educated?
Well sir, the first thing we must do is throw away our curri
cula. Tomorrow, instead of going to the same old classes, let 
us try something new. Let us not think of college as a rigid 
discipline, but as a kind of vast academic smorgasbord, with 
all kinds of tempting intellectual tidbits to savor. Lets start 
sampling tomorrow.
ws $0 weJ k Wrf Wee Udm's imm
We will begin the day with a stimulating seminar in Hittite 
artifacts. Then we will go over to marine biology and spend a 
happy hour with the sea slugs. Then we will open our pores by 
drilling a spell with the ROTC. Then well go over to journalism 
and tear out the front page. Then well go to the medical school 
and autograph some casts. Then well go to home economics 
and have lunch.
And between classes well smoke Marlboro Cigarettes. This, 
let me emphasize, is not an added fillip to the broadening of 
our education. This is an essential. To learn to live fully and 
well is an important part of education, and Marlboros are an 
important part of living fully and well. What a sense of com
pleteness you will get from Marlboros fine tobaccos, from 
Marlboros pure filter! What flavor Marlboro delivers! Through 
that immaculate filter comes flavor in full measure, flavor with
out stint or compromise, flavor that wrinkled care derides, 
flavor holding both its sides. This triumph of the tobacconist's 
art comes to you in soft pack or Flip-Top box and can be lighted 
with match, lighter, candle, Welsbaeh mantle, or by rubbing 
two small Indians together.
When we have embarked on this n^w regimenor, more 
accurately, lark of regimenwe will soon be cultured as all 
get out. When strangers accost us on the street and say, What 
was Wordsworth doing ten miles above Tintern Abbey, hey? 
we will no fcnger slink away in silent abashment. We will reply 
loud and clear:
As any truly educated person knows, Wordsworth, Shelley, 
and Keats used to go to the Widdicombe Fair every year for 
the poetry-writing contests and three-legged races, both of 
whicn they enjoyed lyrically. Well sir, imagine their chagrin 
when they arrived at the Fair in 1776 and learned that Oliver 
Cromwell, uneasy because Guy Fawkes had just invented the 
spinning jenny, had cancelled all public gatherings, including 
the Widdicombe Fair and Liverpool. Shelley was so upset 
that he drowned himself in a butt of malmsey. Keats went to 
Ixmdon and became Charlotte Bronte. Wordsworth ran blindly 
into the forest until he collapsed in a heap ten miles above 
Tintern Abbey. There he lay for several years, sobbing and 
kicking his little fat legs. At length, peace returned to him. He 
looked around, noted the beauty of the forest, and was so moved 
that he wrote Joyce Kilmers immortal Trees ... And that, 
smart-apple, is what Wordsworth was doing ten miles above 
Tintern Abbey.c* 1963 Mas SbulnsftS
Poets and peasants, students and teachers, ladies and gentle
menall know you get a lot to like in a Marlboroavailable 
wherever cigarettes are sold in all 50 States,
i

---------------------------------------------------

At Union National Bank, you can have a free personal checking account 
Just keep a $200 balance. There's no service charge. No maintenance 
charge No charge fof new checks. No charge for deposits. Pay youf 
bills the easy way. Stop in at your nearest Union National Bank office 
and open your free personal checking account. Come in today.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH
MAIN OFFICE: FOURTH AVENUE AT WOOO STREET 
AND: 4612 FORBES AVENUE, OAKLAND
MtMBCft: FEDERAL REStKVE SYSTEM FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE COftPOftMtOM
Wednesday, March 87, 196S  CARNEGIE TECH  Page S
Dr. Sternglass 
Speaks On His 
Nuclear Theory
By Mike Greenawalt
mLast Wednesday evening the 
Carnegie Tech chapter of student' 
affiliates of the American Chemi
cal Society enjoyed a talk given 
by E. L. Sternglass. Dr. Sternglass, of Westinghouse Research, 
told the society about the devel
opment of his new theory of nu
clear structure. His theory es
sentially reduces the number of 
elementary particles to two, the 
electron and the positron. He has 
 shown by calculation that many 
of the mesons and hyperons that 
have been observed can be repre
sented by combinations of electron-positron pairs in interaction.
The thory had its origin in Dr. 
Sternglasss undergraduate years 
at Cornell during the early 1940s. 
At that time, as at the present, 
nuclear forces were considered 
to be separate and distinct from 
^ electromagnetic forces because 
they were much stronger and 
acted over muck shorter distances 
than electromagnetic theory could 
account for. Dr. Sternglass won
dered if ther#e might not be some 
way in which the nuclear forces 
could be explained in terms of 
electromagnetic forces.
By studying the known nuclear 
particles and their modes of de
cay, he found that eventually all 
^ of the particles decayed into elec
trons and positrons. He reasoned 
that it should be possible to work 
backwards, building the larger 
articles from the smaller ones. 
After several unsucessful at
tempts at putting an electron and 
jsroton together to form a neu
tron, he tried making calculations 
on a system consisting of an elec
tron and a position revolving 
around a common center of mass. 
By placing one of the particles at 
 rest in a moving reference frame, 
and applying relativity theory to 
the motion of the other particle 
with respect to the first, he found 
that the force between them was 
electromagnetic in nature and 
very large due to relativistic ef
fects.
When the mass and decay life
time of this electron-positron sys
tem were calculated, they corre
sponded almost exactly with the 
observed values for the neutral 
pi meson. Further calculations 
with combinations of two, three, 
four, and five electron-positron 
pairs produced results in each 
case which agreed within 2-3% 
with observed values for various 
known particles. Furthermore, 
calculations have been made 
which predict the properties of 
as yet unknown particles.
Although his theory is still in 
t an unrefined form, Dr. Sternglass 
feels~~that someday it will find 
general acceptance as an explana
tion of nuclear structure. He be
lieves that it will take time for 
his theory to gain general ac
ceptance over current theories. 
After all, why should scientists 
change a lifetimes way of thought 
overnight in the face of an un
proved theory?
Sororities Elect Officers 
For Coming School Year
The seven sororities on campus* 
have recently chosen new officers 1 
for the next year. The results of 
the elections for five main offices 
are:
Alpha Epsilon Phi: President,
Phyllis Cohen; Vice President, 
Bonnie Kliot; Pledge Trainer, 
Adina Rosenfield; Secretary,
Jean Kean; Treasurer, Eleanor 
Denberg.
Chi Omega: President, Andrea
Vidakovic; Vice President, 
Kathy Thompson; Pledge 
Trainer, Helen Beatty; Secre
tary, Hazel Hammann; Treas
urer, Lee 'Weller.
Delta Delta Delta: President, Blair
Jessop; Vice President and
Pledge Trainer, Judy Phillis;1 
Secretary, Marty Krick; Treas-j 
urer. Linda Jafiurs.
Delta Gamma: President, Marilyn 
Taft; Second Vice President,
Jean Jacobs; Pledge Trainer,
Sally Hacker (and first vice
president); Secretary, Kathy 
Vo; Treasurer, Nancy Cameron.
Kappa Alpha Theta: President,
Marney Gilboy; Vice President, 
Jean Magura; Pledge Trainer,
Jane Lomasson; Secretary, Mary
Lee Brady; Treasurer, Jane 
Carsen.
Kappa Kappa Gamma: President,
Chris Bevivino: Vice President, 
Lee Ann Nelson; Second Vice 
President, Peggy Ross; Secre
tary, Barbara Cerra; Treasurer, 
Becky Stone.
Sigma Kappa: President, Eliza
beth Spring; First Vice Presi
dent, Jeanne Whittredge; Sec
ond Vice President, Doris 
Briggs; Secretary, Kathy John
son; Treasurer, Audrey Owen.
We went to the mountain to 
make 1963 Ford-built cars 
go 30,000 to 100,000 
miles between major 
chassis lubrications
Quite a task faced Ford Motor Company 
engineers when they set out to eliminate the. 
traditional trip to the grease rack ever/' 
1,000 miles.
Like Mohammed, they went to the mountain( 
Bartlett Mountain on the Continental Divide if 
Colorado. More molybdenite is mined there' 
than in the rest of the world combined. And 
from molybdenite ore comes the amazing 
moly grease that helps extend the chassis' 
lubrication intervals for Ford-built cars. This 
grease sticks tenaciously to metal, stands uf 
under extreme pressures and resists moisture^' 
pounding and squeezing. It is slicker than 
skates on ice!
New, improved seals were developed. Bushings, 
bearings and washers of many materials were 
investigated. Slippery synthetics, like nylon 
and teflon, were used a number of new ways.
The search for means to extend chassis lubri*, 
cation also led to New Orleanswhere 
experimental suspension ball joints tested in 
taxicabs in regular service went two years 
without relubrication.
It Took time. And ingenuity. But the effort paid 
off when Ford-built cars were the first to build 
in chassis lubrication good for 30,(XX) miles of 
two years-whichever came first.
Another assignment completed-another 
"Ford First" and another example of how Ford 
Motor Company provides engineering leader
ship for the American Road.
MOTOR COMPANY 
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 
WHERE ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP 
BRINGS YOU BETTER-BUILT CARS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, March 27, 1963
Editorial
Ring In The New
The new Tartan staff will be named this 
evening at the annual Tartan banquet. Next 
weeks paper will be a joint effort of the old 
and the new, and then the present staff will 
be on its way to becoming a mere memory. 
It may look back with satisfaction on a years 
service to the Tech campus, a year of chal
lenges, of questions and problems that often 
seemed insurmountable, but in the end were 
conquered. Somtimes complaints like Why 
wasnt my article on the front page? or 
Why didnt you use that picture? engen
dered the question, Why have a student 
newspaper? But then seeing that Wednes
day issue made it all worthwhile.
The staff is changing but the problems 
remain much the same. This new staff will 
also reevaluate the question, Why have a 
student newspaper?, but theirs will be an 
optimistic position. They look not to the 
problems of the past, but to the success of 
the future. Like all new administrations the 
sparkle of their initial enthusiasm outshines 
all else. There are no dark clouds on the 
horizon, only gleaming sunshine. But suns,
too, burn out without the proper fuel. That 
is why the new staff will need your help and 
encouragement. The student body must 
work with them as they launch their ideas. 
A kind word or some helpful advice will en
sure the continuance of their enthusiasm 
and the realization of their goalan improv
ed newspaper. Only with an interested stu
dent body can there be an interesting stu
dent newspaper. Without this interest their 
efforts will wane, clouds will hide the sun 
and the horizon will become dark.
True, for a few hours the new staff re
mains anonymous. But whatever their names 
their task will be the same. To them is en
trusted Techs most effective means of com
munication. Through their efforts and your 
interest the Tartan can be much more than 
an announcement media, more than a strug
gle for the front page. The Tartan can reflect 
the campus and its attitudes. It will be a 
weekly picture of Tech campus life.
We hope that the new staff will receive 
the support it needs and deserves, and wish 
them every success in realizing their goals in 
the next publication year.
YWCA Sponsors Students For 
Travel-Study-Work Seminar
The National Student YWCA and World University 
Service are sponsoring a travel-study-work seminar in Asia 
this summer for interested college women. The seminar 
group will include 42 persons, 18 of which are to be students, 
for a two and one half month program in Asia. The program 
wrill include: a minimum of seven weeks in India and ap
proximately two weeks of travel^-----------------------------------------------------------
in other Asian countries. The focus  j - *- -
of the seminar will be on a meet1TX01X1.
ing in depth with Indian univerConfer at 
Downington
Several members of the YMCA
sity students; visiting a number 
of university centers; participat
ing in a seminar for several 
weeks in Bangalore, India, with 
India students and professors, and 
a joint U. S.-Indian student work 
project of several weeks dura
tion. For part of the two and onehalf month period the students and YWCA will represent those 
would be divided into three small organizations at the annual Re
groups, each with a non-student
leader, to facilite getting to know 
Indian students on a more per
sonal level.
Qualifications for applicants:
1. Upperclass of graduate stu
dents between ages 19 and 24 
(having completed their junior 
year).
2. Demonstrated ability to ac
cept responsibility.
gional Assembly of the Student 
Ys on the weekend of March 29- 
30 at Downigton, Pa., at Camp 
Hilltop. The theme will be Re
ciprocal Challenge: Campus and 
Y and will bring delegates from 
Christian Associations in Pennsyl
vania, West Virginia, Delaware, 
Maryland, New Jersey and the 
District of Columbia. There will 
be speakers, discussion groups, 
and legislative sessions during the 
weekend. Delegates representing 
the Campus YMCA are David 
Adams, Walter Batchelor, Robert 
Mertens, and Richard Batchelder, 
a staff member. Representing the 
YMCA will be Joanne Duda, Les
lie McKinley, Roberta Mosko, 
Nanci Tabashneck and Verna 
Volz.
Folk Artists 
Perform at 
Carnegie Hall
Six well-known Pittsburgh folk
artists will perform a benefit con---:---
cert at Carnegie Lecture Hall on 
Saturday, March 30, at 8:30 p.m.
Vivien Richman, Jo Davidson. After ,upper on Thursday>
and Charles Cubelic, the Gateway March 12, Charlie Moore, an inTrio, performed for 5,000 Pittsstructor in the drama department, 
burghers at the Annual Three spoke ^ the brothers of Theta
. . _ ,. i , , -  T. Xi. His discussion was concernedRivers Art Festival last fall. They ... .. , .: with the state of the American
will join the Cannonball Trio, theatre in comparison with that of 
featuring Carol Saunders, David Europe. The American belief that 
Bergholz and Dan Muss, for an theatres must be private and self
evening of love songs, work songs, supporting has led to a thretre ,  , , , , _ A . which is basically conservativeballads and blues. Both local trios an(J commercial) while the state_
have appeared on television and supported theatres of many Euin concert in midwestern cities, as ropean countries have led to a 
well as the Pittsburgh area. They, livelier, more experimental theare recording artists whose Ws I ?<r*>/* '.Tpa.ri":, . | Mr. Moore then pointed out thatare gaining increasing popularity; the need for good theatre in
with folk song enthusiasts. America has required leading
The concert is being sponsored j universities (such as Tech) to asby Pittsburgh Women for Peace, sume responsibility for the trainTickets are available for $1.25 ing of good actors and the satiseach at the Carnegie Tech Bookfaction of the communitys need 
store. i for good drama.
Tech Flight
Responses
Encouraging
The organizers of the Carnegie 
Tech Charter Flight report that 
early last week 25 people had al
ready paid their deposits of S50 
insuring them a place in the 
group flying to Europe. The flight 
will leave June 13 and return 
August 21.
Basic arrangements for the 
flight have been completedand 
the flight booking is firm.
There may be some potential 
travelers to Europe whose plans 
were not definite enough to com
mit themselves earlier. The or
ganizers are, nevertheless, still 
j very willing to help such people 
travel to Europe at a round-trip 
cost of $310 per person. Those 
interested please contact one of 
the following before April 30: 
j Tom Steffen 682-6821, Bill Rus
sell MA 1-0533, Harry Norris 
682-8492, Richard Niehaus 682- 
8548.
American Trio 
Gives Concert
The American Arts Trio, faculty 
trio-in-residence at West Virginia 
University, will present the sixth 
concert in Carnegie Techs 1962- 
63 Concert Series on Wednesday, 
March 27, at 8:30 p.m. in the Car
negie Lecture Hall.
The trio, composed of Donald 
Postnoy, violinist; Arno Drucker, 
pianist; and Jon Engberg, cellist, 
has performed extensively both in 
the United States and abroad. 
Last year they presented a con
cert at the Seattle Worlds Fair 
as cultural representative of the 
State of West Virginia.
Mr. Postnoy is a graduate of the 
Julliard School of Music; in ad
dition to being a violin instructor 
at the University, he is conductor 
of the Morgantown UniversityCommunity Symphony Orchestra. 
Both Mr. Druckers and Mr. Engberg are graduates of the East
man School of Music. The group, 
formed in 1955, has also presented 
a regional network television ser
ies as well as another series pro
duced for national distribution by 
: the National Educational TeleviI sion and Radio Center.
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Cancer
The modern world has spawned a great increase in the 
number of persons whose function is to interpret rules, pass 
information, keep records, and so on. When these persons 
work for the government they are called bureaucrats. These 
bureaucrats do work that is necessary if a nation is to move 
into the modern world; someone must relay and interpret 
the rules that govern the functions that the government 
assumes  collecting taxes, perpetuating itself, regulating 
whatever the majority decides needs regulated, etc. (This 
may be unfortunate, but it is the way such decisions are 
presently made.) f-t
However in many cases the structure and norms exist
ing in bureaucratic organizations are not consistent with 
the purpose for which they were organized. The Dept, of 
Agriculture is one example. On a television program last 
year Secretary Freeman deplored the fall in milk sales be
cause it reduced dairy farmers incomes, and said that it 
would be unpatriotic (!) to drink less milk. The Agriculture 
Dept, has become more and more an agency for defending 
farmers special interests against all comers. This group, 
and other similar ones, has internalized its functions to serve 
the groups interests. In the Dept, of Agricultures case, it% 
attitude pleases the persons with which it deals (farmers), 
and of course the more farmers and the bigger the subsidies 
the more allocations the department gets. Another example 
of this change in organizational goals is the way in which 
persons are chosen to fill vacancies in the bureaucracy. The 
Civil Service Commission was formed to test applicants for 
government jobs, and select the most qualified. Now the 
C.C.C.s Management Trainee exam tests applicants ability 
to conform to the organizations norms. More examples 
could be given, but it would be better to try to find a solu
tion.
Today once a person is hired for a government job he 
considers himself secure  he will rarely if ever be fired 
after his trial period is over. Perhaps if such persons were 
made less secure, they would do better work. Another 
method would be to offer incentives to managers (bonuses, 
promotions, etc.) to reduce work forces or increase the 
efficiency of their subordinates in desired ways. This would 
not necessarily protect the public though. Such protection 
must come from outside the bureaucracy.
In the Scandinavian countries such control already ex
ists  there are officials responsible to persons who have, 
complaints about any department or rule in the usualbureaucracy. These officials have the power to make in
vestigations, order changes, or remove officials on their own 
authority. Until now this system has operated, smoothly; 
there is no reason to believe that it will not continue to do 
so. Perhaps a similar system could be used in the United 
States.
The present system allows petty officials to be laws 
unto themselves. It is time that they were made to perform 
their duties in accordance with the spirit, as well as the 
letter, of their instructions. If some action is not taken, ^ 
we may wake up some day to find ourselves enmeshed in a 
paper jail.
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE AC TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 3-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager, MA. 
1-1504; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rfcte $2.50 
Second Class Portage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Editor-in-chief ..............................Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor ......................................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor .......................... .............Fritz Klinke
Business Manager ......................................Miron Straf
News Editor.....................................Margie Park
Assistant News Editor..................................Jan Scharp
Features Editor ....................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor ..................................................Anne Moser
Advertising Manager ......................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ....................................................John Blue
Layout Editor...............................................Allap Pollock
Secretarial Editor ........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ............................Mike Greenawalt
Editorial Board: Mark Applebaum, Colin Jones, Margie Park, Henry Henderson,
B. J. Zimnewicz, Miron Straf. and Chuck First.
Layout Staff: Nancy Cameron, Mike McCoy, Sue Stitt, Marion Mulligan, Drew 
Lippay, Dick Elder. Fritz Klinke, Tom Glassberg.
New* Staff: Colin Jones, Marty Moore, Fay Landau, Frank Brady, Gladys Stalinsky, Jaye Lapidus, Elie Denberg, Miriam Gillespie. Marion Mulligan. Lois 
Elinoff, Janice Lester, Jam Leone, Marty Sauer, Chuck Steinmeyer, Peggy 
Riva, Judi Meyers, Jan Scharp, Marty Siegel, Sally Sheats, Sandy Lancaster, 
Cindy Wolfson, Ellen Hamill. Nancy Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Sport*: Scott McCormick, Ken Kantrowltz.
Secretarial Staff: Betsy Bellows, Mary Breitenstein, Jane Cline, Susan Witt, and 
Leslie McKinley.
Circulation: Tom Johnson, George Kail and 0*y Priest.
Features Staff: Andrea Nether, Joan Hoexter, Jane Skeehan, Ruth Ge^hekten, 
Susan Crytzer, Perry Axarlis, Nadalyn Goldberg, Ken Lieberman, Jeffrey 
Axelrad, Marion Mulligan, Judy Meyers. Lynn Mahler, Jennifer Low, Marty 
Sauer, Irene Grandberg, Ollie Donaidson.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March *7, 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Page 5
Trio Performs
IAt Lecture Hall
* Heston Speaks 
On Kennedy
James Reston, two-time Pulit
zer Prize winner and chief Wash
ington correspondent for The 
New York Times will deliver the 
1963 Maurice Falk Lecture Series 
P at Carnegie Tech.
Mr. Reston, winner of the high
est journalism prize in 1945 for 
superior coverage of the Dum
barton Oaks Security Conference 
and in 1957 for distinguished 
Washington Reporting, will de
liver two lectures at Carnegie 
Tech under the general heading 
of President Kennedys Dilem
mas. The lectures will be given 
tl' April 1 at 4:00 p.m., and April 2 at 8:00 p.m. in the balloorm 
of Skibo, Carnegie Techs cam
pus activities center.
Since 1945, Mr. Reston has been 
reporting from Washington first 
as national correspondent of The 
Times, later as diplomatic cor
respondent, and since 1953 as 
chief of the Washington bureau.
Recognized as one of the finest 
interpretive reporters of Wash^ ington and foreign news, Mr. Res
ton has twice been the recipient 
of the Overseas Press Club 
Award. His column currently ap
pears three times a week in The 
Times and is* syndicated throughour the United States.
Born in Scotland, Mr. Reston 
has been in the United States 
since 1920 and is a 1932 graduate 
of the University of Illinois. Im^ mediately following graduation he
* served as press agent for the 
Cincinnati Reds before joining 
the staff of the Associated Press 
as a sports writer in 1934. Three 
years later, he served A.P. in 
London, and joined the London 
staff of The Times in 1939.
Both lectures are open to the 
public.
Dry den, NASA Representative, 
Speaks On U.S. Space Program
A discussion of the United 
States space program will be pre
sented by Dr. Rugh L. Dryden, 
deputy administrator of NASA, 
Tuesday, April 2, at 11:30 a.m. in 
the Carnegie Theater.
Mr. Dryden, who will be in 
Pittsburgh to speak at the annual 
dinner meeting of the Pittsburgh 
Post-Society of American Mili
tary Engineering, is one of the 
nations foremost authorities on 
aeronautical sciences and the 
space program.
He has received honorary de
grees from eleven colleges and 
universities, including the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania, Case In
stitute of Technology, and Johns 
Hopkins University, and has pub
lished more than 100 articles on 
aeronautical and space research.
In 1938, Dr. Dryden was the 
first American to deliver the 
Wright Brothers Annual Lecture 
before the Institute of Aeronauti
cal Sciences and in 1962 delivered 
the first Von Karman Lecture. He 
is the recipient of the U. S. Army 
Air Forces Medal of Freedom, 
the Presidential Certificate of 
Merit, the Daniel Guggenheim 
Medal, the Presidents Award for 
Distinguished Federal Civilian 
Service, the Rockefeller Public 
Service Award, the Gold Medal 
of the International Benjamin 
Franklin Society, and over eight 
other distinguished awards.
Mr. Dryden
All students and faculty are in
vited to hear Dr. Dryden discuss 
the United States5 position in this 
critical area.
Ha ERMMN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
- JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
YOUNG MAN
show your color with
CRICKETEER*
What makes this 
Springs sportcoat 
different from last Falls? 
Color! Robust new 
colorings that are light 
and alive... made for 
creative accessories. 
Escape from the drab and 
see our Cricketeer 
sportcoats with a kick! 
Tailored along trim, 
natural lines in your 
choice of pure wool or 
wool with Dacron* or 
Orion* blends.
$00.00 to $00.00.
ndWaBB VD 
nPiaiWa
Stye (Enarh lioaer
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
Phone 521-7600
Open Tuesday and Thursday Evenings until liN
Ce rDo f2cm Vym fDDc De w eoVotm 2s wmtD!8w.maaa Rmwl Vy2! uDDc sDhv
This book (your copy is at your Placement Office) tells 
you about some of the aerospace projects at Wright 
Aeronautical. For example:
Propulsion and miniatnrization  subminiaturized 
rockets for attitude and vernier control.Space ags metallurgy hardware for manned or* 
bital flight and lunar exploration.
Heat transfer and advanced materials new sub
stances and shapes to withstand the erosion of 
blast-off and re-entry.
The book describes important programs headed by 
engineers out of school only a few years. (Ability, not 
age, counts at Wright Aeronautical.)
And the book also tells you about our Rotational 
Training Plan, and our Tuition Assistance Program for 
nineteen nearby colleges in New Jersey and New York.
The book, in brief, explains why Wright Aeronautical 
is an outstanding outfit for an engineer. Why not pick 
up a copy at your Placement Office? Read it. And 
when our interviewer comes to your campus, ask him 
everything.
Then we think you'll decide on Wright Aeronautical 
and youll always be glad you did.
q2ff um z2Vmtg2Vhpf Ds rDot .Db8D! A8t2f d
Wright Aeronautical Division
CURTISS-WRIGHT CORPORATION
Main and Passaic Streets ^ Wood-Ridge. New Jersey
Wi Causi Opportuni^
The American Arts Trio, fac
ulty trio-in-residence at West 
Virginia University, will present 
the sixth concert in Carnegie 
Techs 1962-63 Carnegie Concert 
Series this evening at 8:30 p.m. 
in the Carnegie Lecture Hall.
The trio, composed of Donald 
| Portnoy, violinist; Arno Drucker, 
pianist; and Jon Engberg, cellist, 
has performed extensively in the 
United States and abroad and 
presented a concert at the Seattle 
Worlds Fair last year as cultural 
representatives of the State of 
West Virginia.
Mr. Portnoy is a graduate of 
the Julliard School of Music and 
in addition to being a violin in
structor at the University, he is 
^ conductor of the Morgantown 
University-Community Symphony 
Orchestra. Both Mr. Drucker and 
Mr. Engberg are graduates of the 
Eastman School of Music. The 
group, formed in 1955, has also 
presented a regional network 
television series as well as an
other series produced for nation
al distribution by the National 
Educational Television and Radio 
Center.
> The concert is open to the pub
lic.
Youll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel bster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
koiet WebAt&o -Hall/
4415 Fifth Avenue Pittsburgh 13, Po. 
Telephone: MAyftower 1-7700

---------------------------------------------------

Pag 6  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, March 87, 1963
Enter Musical 
Competition
APRIL 5thDEADLINE
Due to the many requests to ex
tend the deadline date of the In
ter-Collegiate Musical Competi
tion, May 9 and 10, 1963, Lycom
ing College announces that the 
deadline for applications has been 
extended to April 5th. Any stu
dent rock and roll, jazz, and vo
cal groups interested should send 
application to: IMC, Box 35, Ly
coming College, Williamsport, 
Pennsylvania. There will be rep
resentatives present from Capi
tal Records Inc., Penn-World At
tractions, and others to be an
nounced later. Prizes will consist 
of $950 in cash, trophies, and 
other non-cash items. This is an 
excellent opportunity for a col
lege group to become recognized.
Daytona Beach 
Pla J/ciccition
Entertainment Series Oil Liberal Political Views
Liberal Club Article Opens
YMCA, YWCA
Holds New 
Lecture Series
A Lecture Series on FREUD 
AND RELIGION will be offered 
by the Campus YMCA, YWCA, 
and Bnai Brith Hillel Founda
tion, to be given by Dr. Richard 
L. Rubenstein on Wednesdays in 
April from 4:30 to 5:45, beginning 
April 3rd. The first lecture will 
be entitled Freud and Religion 
as Illusion (The Future of an 
Illusion, Civilization, and its Dis
contents); April 10th will be 
Freud and Luther, April 17 
Freud and Calvin, and April 
24 Freud and Contemporary 
Juadism. This series is offered 
as a special benefit to members 
of the Campus Ys and of Hillel 
Foundation. Any students and 
faculty who are interested in par
ticipating who are not members 
of either organization may do so 
by paying a fee of $3.00. There 
are fifty places available and re
gistration will be closed when that 
number is reached. The Series 
will be offered in Room 40, Skibo 
and registrations may be made in 
the Campus Y office, 57 Skibo.
Dr. Rubenstein is Director of 
the Hillel Foundation in Pitts
burgh, and completed his PhD de
gree at Harvard University in the 
fields of psychology and religion. 
He has lectured extensively at 
several universities in the United 
States, Canada, and Europe. The 
fall semester lecture series by Dr. 
Rubenstein on Existentialism 
was very well received and mem
bers of the class requested this 
spring semester series on Freud.
The Daytona Beach Spring Folk 
Festival, with some of the top 
names in folk singing, has been 
set for April 5 to 15. Plans now 
call for the appearance of the 
Brothers Four, Peter, Paul, and 
Mary, The Huntsmen, and the 
Folksters, all well known folk 
singing groups.
In contrast to last years hectic 
preparations, the Folk Festival is 
being planned carefully to avoid 
schedule conflicts. Stan Nass, Day
tona Beach City Commissioner, 
says that Semester breaks and 
vacation periods differ from school 
to school, and we want to have 
good entertainment here when
ever the people arrive. There is 
| a minimum of $6,000 in the city 
j budget to underwrite paying for 
j entertainers, and other organizaI tions are also providing money 
i and talent.
This year, in addition to the 
| professional talent, collegians will 
I be encouraged to bring their own 
 guitars, banjos, and other instruj ments and stage hootenannies 
 folk singing shows  at the 
l Bandshell.
This is the first In a series of 
articles from the Liberal Club in 
the interest of stimulating dis
cussion and presenting liberal 
political views.* * *
The House Un-American Ac
tivities Committee has broken 
more records than Babe Ruth. It 
has called more witnesses, spent 
more money, published moie re
ports, and is responsible for the 
least amount of legislation of any 
committee in Congress. The Com
mittee was originally founded in 
1938 to investigate 1) The ex
tent, character, and objectives of 
un-Ameircan propaganda in the 
U.S. and 2) The diffusion 
within the United States of sub
versive and un-American prop
aganda . . . It immediately
adopted as its function the ex
posure of people engaged in ac
tivities deemed un-American by 
the Committee, and it proceeded 
to publishe numerous lists of peo
ple in such subversive organiza
tions, a function which it has 
retained through its 25 years of 
existence.
People placed on such lists have
been subjected to threats of vio
lence, actual violence, and loss 
of employment because of public 
hostility toward such organiza
tions. They have been ostrasized 
from their communities and fre
quently find it impossible to find 
future employment. In short, the 
Committee serves to silence mi
nority opinion through censurship by investigation, even though 
the Supreme Court has ruled, in 
1957, that There is no Congres
sional power to expose for the 
sake of exposure.
The HUAC, in being author
ized to investigate speech and 
ideas so broadly as to place prac
tically no restraints upon it, has 
been put in a position in which 
it can decide which organizations 
shall be made non-functional by 
being branded as un-American, 
whatever this may be defined to 
be. By abusing the constitutional 
guarantees of court procedures, 
acting both as judge and jury for 
the subpoenaed witnesses, it has 
ruined the lives of many inno
cent pepole.
Here is how the Committee 
works. Let us assume for a mo
ment that you are or have been 
a Communist and, furthermore, 
that you have never done any
thing illegal in connection with 
your beliefs. When called before 
the Committee and asked to state 
your convictions, you have four 
alternatives. If you plead the 
Fifth Amednment, you are then 
liable to jail sentence and a fine 
for contempt of Congress, since 
the courts have ruled that free 
speech and right to assembly 
granted by the Fifth Amendment 
are not sufficient reasons for re
fusing to answer HUACs selfincrimination, you are then con
sidered guilty of being a Commu
nist by inference. If you admit 
your radical views, you can no 
longer plead the Fifth Amend
ment and must answer any fur
ther questions, which may mean 
informing on associates or ex
posing persons with similar views. 
If you refuse to accredit your 
denial, whereupon you will be 
indicted for perjury. Even if you 
are later found innocent, the un
favorable publicity of the trial 
and hearing leaves its mark upon 
you and your future life.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
SALUTE: AL LUSSIER, JR.
As unit manager in the Wilmington, Delaware, business 
office of The Diamond State Telephone Company, A1 Lussier, 
Jr. (B.A., 1959) supervises 32 people. Als unit collects 
over a million dollars in monthly bills and is an integral 
part of a team serving 47,000 customers. A1 earned this 
job in less than three years with the company.
On one of his previous assignments he did an out
standing job of reorganizing two other business offices 
serving 95,000 customers. Recognition followed with his 
most recent promotion.
A1 Lussier and other young men like him in Bell 
Telephone Companies throughout the country help bring 
the finest communications service in the world to the homes 
and businesses of a growing America.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
SENIORS and ENGINEERS
Looking for Work!
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associates 
976 Union Trust Bldg. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319
Concert
GATEWAY TRIO 
CANNONBALL TRIO
SATURDAY, MARCH 30
8:30 p.m.
Carnegie Lecture Hall 
Students $1.25 
Tickets: Tech Book Store 
sponsored by 
Pittsburgh Women 
for Peace

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March *7, 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Page 7
Graduation Fee 
Required Of 
Candidates
All Bachelors, Masters and 
Doctors Degree candidates are 
reminded that the graduation fee 
of $10.00 is charged to all candi
dates for graduation. This fee 
may be paid by mail or in person 
at the Registrars Office. Checks 
should be made payable to the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Candidates should come to the 
Office of the Registrar for the 
necessary cards to take to the 
Cashiers Office to pay this fee in 
person.
All candidates for the Doctors 
Degree are required to deposit the 
amount of $25.00 which is refund
ed when the candidate has ful
filled his departments require
ment in respect to the publication 
of his doctoral thesis. The deposit 
should be paid to Mr. Claney in 
the Office of the Controller.
Both the graduation fee and 
the deposit must be paid by April 
1, 1963.
Cameron Grant 
Offers Seniors 
Chance To Study
Male seniors who plan to study 
abroad for a year following grad
uation may be eligible for the R. 
J. Cameron Grant - for foreign 
study. It is available to students 
who have made arrangements for 
a year of study abroad, have com
pleted their financing, and will 
benefit from an additional grant 
enabling them to travel more 
widely and become more familiar 
with the cultural and political 
background of European nations.
Interested students should check 
in Dean Swanks office to deter
mine their eligibility for the 
grant.
FOR SALE 
Heathkit Analogue Computor
MODEL EC-1
CALL HANK AT: MU 3-3649
Photo by Aron Collons
Tech students contemplate,SHOES
WALLYS
andlei  CnthDrkExciting New Thistle Captures 
Spirit Of Tech For Everyone
RedAA for party
Women
SMART CASUALS
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
HUSH - PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAGIC 
FLORSHEIM
Youve all seen the Thistle dis
play set up in Administration 
Hall. Its there to give you a hint 
of what the lively 1963 Thistle 
will be like, for this is the year 
that Tech will be captured with 
a camera. This is the year for 
everyone to buy a Thistle. Its 
no longer just a remembrance 
Ifor seniors, but a vital panorama 
of those essences of college life 
which are meaningful and excit
ing for everyone. You cannot ex
pect to have a satisfying record 
of your college career if you pur
chase a Thistle only in your sen
ior year, for each individual year 
is unique and significant in it
self, an essential, organic part of 
the whole. We urge everyone, 
freshmen through seniors to order a Thistle now, so that no 
one will miss the most exciting 
issue ever published and the op
portunity to have forever a living 
record of this 1963 segment of 
your most memorable years.(Across from Strand Theater)3612 FORBES AVE.
The Lettermen bring their fresh 
and imaginative sound to twelve 
great songs that deserve to be sung. 
The result? College Standards] 
the Lettermens newest Capitol 
album. Theres romance written 
all over every song, from Frater
nity Rows The Sweetheart of 
Sigma Chi to Broadways The 
Partys Over.
Look for College Standards 
on Capitol... and be sure to look 
for the Lettermen in concert on 
your campus.
(S)T-1829
to explain what our STOPH means to all sizes and shapes of 
graduating seniors. (Hint: its a key word that stands for the 
five factors you consider most important in selecting a job.) 
Our man will be in the Placement Office on
sR eReienN hRrE 
GhNNrIr lDhIDnd
VVrife for 
brochure JY-2
APRIL 9tear J
Jun*f Year Program 
Washington Square 
College 
***w York University 
New Yorfc 3, N.Y.
Avoid the crush. Sign up now for your appointment.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
THE CLEVELAND ELECTRIC ILLUMINATING COMPANY
an investor-owned electric utility serving the best location in the nation 
CLEVELAND,OHIO

---------------------------------------------------

'63 METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING GRADS
Start at $8,400 with local corporation
No Agency Fee
Aid for graduate studies on night school plan available.
Call . . . Career Personnel 
GR 1-8926
4150 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh 22
Attention SENIOR and GRADUATE MEN Students
who need some FINANCIAL HELP in order to complete their 
education during this Academic Year and will then commence
work.
Apply to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION, INC.
A Non-Profit Educational Corp. 610 Endicott Bid;., St. Paul 1, Minn.
SAVE MONEY! Special Get Acquainted Offer!
CUSTOM PACK REGULAR PRICE *249 
NOW ONLY $198
Hurry! Offer good only while supply lasts!
THIS IS THE FAMOUS
Custom Pack!
Six choice pipe tobaccos
EASY WAY TO FIND 
A NEW FAVORITE!
EnsembleGives
ConcertSunday
The Contemporary Chamber 
Ensemble will present a concert 
with dance on Sunday night, 
March 31, 1963 at 8:30 p.m. in 
the Skibo Ballroom. Included on 
the program are The Unanswered 
Question by Charles E Ives, Three 
Bagatelles for Oboe and Bassoon 
by Alexei Haieff, an improvisa
tion by various members of the 
ensemble, and La Creation du 
Monde (The Creation of the 
World) by Darius Milhaud, in 
honor of the 70th anniversary of 
the composers birth. All of the 
pieces will be dances except the 
last one. Joanna Gewertz, a mem
ber of the music department fac
ulty, will choreograph the danced 
music, and F. Richard Moore will 
conduct.
Go to any tobacconist or druggist near the campus
Page 8  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday. March TARN 1965
"MNILT"S TGL1 GON%ON %OT" qUCIMUAGG pCkILRM pCkILRM A cool-burning Superbly mild and aromatic,
Smells so good because En8|ish yPe tobacconever burns hotit tastes so good. distinctively aromatic.
Look what you get6 different, wonderful pipe tobaccos 
in one handy sample package! What easier way is there 
to become a tobacco connoisseur? You get only the 
finest premium blends you can buy. No ordinary pipe 
tobaccos here! Each blend is chosen for mild taste and 
pleasing aroma. Each blend has its own special some
thing" to give you a thoroughly satisfying smoke. 
Enjoy each one by itself or experiment! Mix different 
blends anyway you like for an exciting change of pace!
%ONNCYOR%
A smooth, mellow cool 
burning mixture with 
subtle taste and aroma.
Tech Orchestra Presents
Second Seasonal Concert
Harth. Mr. Harth, who assumed 
duties as head of the department 
of music at Carnegie Tech last 
September is also the founder of 
the College-Community Orches
tra. The musicians were selected 
by audition last fall, an'-" include 
a cross-section of the community 
including students, housewives, 
college professors, and other per
sons in many different profes
sional areas.
The program for the upcoming 
concert includes Wagners Over
ture to the Flying Dutchman, 
Prokofiev5s Lieutenant Kije, 
and Sibelius Second Sym
phony. Tickets for the concert 
can be purchased at Hornes, 
Volkweins, Carnegie Tech, or at 
the box office.
Atm rDo w Dsm 8wV Dt w VhD 8wV bwsF 52Vwf2! h2Vy 
50 cmm8! rDot yw2t smwV wU lwr h2VyDoV 3tmw!ma
Naturally. V-7 is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis 
with V-7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, keeps 
your hair neat all day without grease. Try Vitalis with V-7 today!
1RLHU TRMM"
Uniquely full bodied 
and rich tasting, yet 
pleasingly mild.
ERMMN1RCMR
Menthol cool and mild with 
real tobacco taste.
Compositions by Wagner, Pro
kofiev, and Sibelius, will be per
formed by the Carnegie Tech Col
lege-Community Orchestra at its 
second concert of the season on 
Saturday, April 6, 8:30 p.m. in 
the Carnegie Music Hall.
The 100-piece band, which is 
composed of qualified adult musi
cians from throughout the Pitts
burgh community, is conducted 
by world-famous violinist Sidney
Coetzee Speaks 
On Chemistry
Johannes Coetzee, associate 
professor of chemistry at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh, will deliver 
the third in a series of lectures j 
on Electrochemistry being 
sponsored by the Analytical 
Chemistry Group of the American 
Chemical Society.
Professor Coetzee will talk on 
Electrochemistry of Nonaqueous 
Solutions. The lecture will be 
given tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the 
Alan M. Scaife Hall of Engineer
ing at Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
The fourth lecture in the series 
is scheduled for April 10. The 
program will conclude with a 
round table discussion on April 
17.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 27, 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Page $
Awaiting y out, ArviivaL
Clean, comfortable and reasonable accommodations 
for male students, clubs, teams, administrators and 
groups in the heart of midtown New York, close to 
all transportation and nearby Empire State Build
ing. All conveniences, cafeteria, coffee shop, tailor, 
Jaundry, barber shop, TV room, tours, etc. Booklet C. 
Rates: Single Rooms $2.75-$2.90; Double Rooms $4.40-?4.50
WILLIAM SLOANE HOUSE Y.M.C.A.
356 Wnt 34th St, New York, N. Y. OXfacd 5-5133 (nr. Penn Sta.)
The big, steady Grad Eagles rolled to an easy 70-48 vic
tory over the Finks B on Friday night to grab the 1963 
intramural basketball championship and take a big lead in 
the All-Sports Trophy race. The championship game was 
easy for the Grads compared to their hard fought quarter 
and semi-final game with ATO and Kappa Sig.
The ATO quarter-final match^-------------------------------------------------
was a rough game that the Grads 
won under the boards. A tip, a 
drive and two foul shots by little 
Steve Foels helped ATO to an 
early 8-5 first quarter lead, but 
Da Prano, Dowdle, and Fox com
bined for the Grads in the second 
stanza to give the Eagles a 13-13 
halftime tie. Both teams finally 
found their shooting eye in the 
third quarter. ATO began putting 
in short jumpers but John Dowdle 
put in three short hooks and 
three fouls to help the Grads 
build up a three-point 28-25 lead. 
ATO tied the game twice in the 
fourth quarter but then Ron Daprano took over for the Eagles 
pouring thirteen points through 
the hoop on a variety of shots. 
With the Grads ahead and con
trolling the boards, ATO couldnt 
catch up in spite of some fine 
shooting by Steve Foels who 
wound up high man for both 
teams with 21. Ron Da Prano hit 
17 for the Grads.
Kappa Sigma proved to be 
tougher yet. The Roadrunners ! methodically ran the Finks right
14 points. The Finks used a full 
court press to build up an eleven 
point halftime lead of 24-13 and 
then hung on in the second half 
to take the ball game.
Their opponent in the second 
game was DU, who had edged out 
Sigma Nu 31-28 in a game -that 
saw only 20 field goals go through 
the cords. John Pavliks deadly 
jump shooting kept DU close and 
they trailed by only three at halftime. But here, the Finks tough
ened up on defense while Pokryfka and Goldstein put 13 points 
through to lead the Finks to a 
well-earned 40-32 victory. Pavlik 
was high in the game with 12, but 
Pokryfka and Goldstein wound 
up with 11 and 10 respectively for 
the Finks.
A good crowd turned out for the 
final game including plenty of 
ATOs to cheer on the Finks who 
were the sentimental favorites. 
But the Grads had little, if any, 
sentiment on their minds as they
used an aggressive 1-3-1 zone that a the floor Those wh0 stavedt0 
bottled up the Grads strong of1 'see the finish only stayed to see
outside picks to score on long 
jump shots while center Hill scortensive point - feeding the inside how ints the Grads would
men. Kappa Sigma used beautiful run up since after the flrst quai._
ter, the Finks never had a prayer.
, . . . , , , Pokryfkas 17 ft. jumper anded seven from inside and Kappa : ,Whiz Wizniewskis two fouls
t il ^ j, r Save the Finks a brief 4-3 leadsecond half, the Grad s final y but then Ron DaPrano scored his
began to move the ball a little into of the ni ht and the
better and began to get the ball Gradg were neyer headed_
to the big inside .men. But Larry 
Beile and Ken Bechtel also con-The Grad Eagles full court
tinued to hit from the outside for man-to-mah Press and tight deKappa Sigma to keep the game fense wicked any offensive patconsistently close. With the score tern the^iriks maJ have had and 
tied at 29-29, John Dowdle hit a they could do no better than dnb*
short jumper and Bobby Fox 
scored on a fast break. Kenny 
Bechtel scored on a beautiful 
roll, taking a pass from Beile but 
Fox hit another drive and two 
foul shots to put the Grads far 
enough ahead to win. The final 
score of 45-32 is not a true indica
tion of the fine game Kappa Sig
ble around and shoot long jump
ers. Bobby Foxs two twenty foot 
jumpers and a foul gave the 
Grads a 14-9 lead at the quarter.
The second quarter can best be 
summed up by saying that Ron 
DaPrano ran wild  and thats 
putting it mildly. He scored 15 
points in eight minutes on fouls,
put up against the powerful jump shots, lay-ups and four 20- 
Eagles. Ron Da Prano was high foot set shots from the left corner.
man for the night with 13 while 
Ken Bechtel had 12.
When he wasn't scoring, he was 
passing off or stealing the ball on
If anyone had anv doubts that defense. By the end of the half,the Gra|ds had a commanding 39- 
23 lead.the Grads were not a champion
ship team, these doubts were cer
tainly dispelled on Friday night 
when the Eagles clobbered the 
Finks 70-48. The Finks had come 
into the game with good creden
tials. In the quarterfinals, they 
had whipped the Trojans 46-36, 
paced by Rich Pokryfka, their fine 
lefthanded playmaker, who scored
Fox and Da Prano continued 
the onslaught in the third quarter 
with Fox hitting three successive 
jump shots and DaPrano scoring 
eight more points before the 
Grads mericfully took him out. 
Rich Pokryfka hit for eight 
points, but after the third quarter
Winner of 2 Academy Award Nominations!
BEST DIRECTOR AND BEST SCREENPLAY
the Grads held an impressive 57- 
37 lead.
The fourth quarter saw sloppy 
basketball by both teams who 
were just satisfied to get the game 
over with.
DaPranos total of 10 field goals 
and 8 free throws was the high 
for the tournament and combined 
with Foxs 15, equaled the total 
output of the Finks. Rich Pokry
fkas 16 led the scoring for the 
Finks.
The Finks may have been out
classed this year, but look out in 
the next two tournaments. They 
are all sophomores except for 
Mitch Goldstein who is a junior. 
The Finks arent as bad as they 
looked on Friday and they should 
be a basketball power at Tech for | 
the next two years.
The consolation game was a 
frustrating experience for Kappa 
Sigs Roadrunners. They didnt 
hit on a field goal for fourteen 
minutes and 55 seconds while DU 
built up a 19-4 lead in the first 
half. The second half was fairly 
even as the Roadrunners finally 
found the range but they could 
not come near to overcoming the 
huge lead built up by DU. John 
Pavlik hit fourteen points for DU 
to lead all scorers as Delta Upsilon took third place in the tour
nament by a score of 37-19.
 Photo by Aron Collons
Ai Kulten, President of the IM Board, presents 
football trophy to Dave Olsen of ATO
ATO, Grad Eagles Lead IM Night 
Large Turnout Sees Ceremonies
by Richard Elder
A1 Kullen, president of the In
tramural Board, presided at the 
ceremonies in the gym on Fri
day night as the fifteenth an
nual intramural night attracted 
the campus attention for its one 
night stand. The domination of 
the awards by ATO and the Grad 
Eagles attested to their two team
struggle for the All Sports Tro
phy to be awarded later this 
year.
Dave Olsen accepted the touch 
football trophy for ATO as Dave 
DeVos received the most valuable 
player award. The Grads and 
PKT tied for second behind ATO,
(continued on page 12)
Save
Your
Pennies
UMOC
??????????????????????????????????????????????? TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
SA TsUHUSO LY,LgH MsgMLgu o
125 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet) 4^
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
?????????????????????????????????????????????????
*'COCA-COLA" < HM1UII T.AOC-MA WHICH lOCNMnr Mir THI MCOUCT Of THC MCA-COIA rut,8a.m.calculus...laterush...arrive...quiz... 
Eng... read...write...
...correct...Psych... 
psychotic... neurotic
AN UNUSUAL 
LOVE STORY!DAViDSLiSA
SQ HILL I
SQ. HILL  HA. 1-4909
FOURTH GREAT WEEK
New Policy  Daily Matinees 
For This Engagement
Grad 
In IM
Eagles Score Victory 
Basketball Final
Pavlov... bell... lunchwhew...pause
take a break... things go better with CokeVftACt-toAftft 
Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company Im 
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday. March 27, 1963
TRANKUN fipf nS ! I
SAVINGS EARN 
LIBERAL 
DIVIDENDS n
OF ^p/O
1] "1 T| , open every Tueiday evening
FranklinFEDERAL7p" ,o83'-
SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION .;il||l>
581 FORBES AVE.. SQUIRREL HILL &S&
Over SB Year$ of Servie* to the Pittsburph Community %
 Save by mail. We pay postage and provide free envelopes, too.
 Save by the 10th  earn from the first.
 All savings insured up to $1(1,000.
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS FOR ARROW PRODUCTS
Nationally-known Clothing and Furnishings,
Featuring Ivy League Fashions
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD MU. 2-5209 OAKLAND 
Open Monday, Wednesday, and Friday Till 9:00 P.M.
See your
Sikorsky
Aircraft
ENGINEERING REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
TO GIVE SENIORS ANO GRADUATES COMPLETE DETAILS ON
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
WITH THE PIONEER AND LEADING MANUFACTURER 
of VTOL AIRCRAFT
.
College Placement Office now 
for an appointment.
Thursday, April 4
Track Team Holds Promise For 
One of Most Successful Seasons
by Tony Hausner
Spring is here and soon will 
follow the advent of another track 
season. However, this season 
holds promise for being one of 
the most successful in many years I 
of Techs history. April 6th is the ! 
first track meet, which occurs j 
with the Jeanette Harriers, a 
local A.A.U. team, at Tech. On 
April 20th the first competition 
with college teams occurs at 
Washington and Jefferson, which 
will be the first of three consecu
tive double dual meets. On Tues
day afternoon, April 23, Indiana 
and Waynesburg both will visit 
Tech which is a slight change in 
the original schedule. -
Even though practice has just 
started and the first team com
petition is several weeks away, 
several of the thinclads have been 
working hard at practice and are 
now attending several of the local 
indoor meets. Last Saturday thir
teen members participated in a 
National Track Federation Meet at . 
the Pitt Field House. Even though
t Tech didnt score any points j 
against competition from Penn 
State, West Virginia, Pitt and 
many other schools, many of the 
times were very good, including 
the performances of the five 
freshmen who entered. Ron DeFeo and Bill Uhrig ran the sprints 
and Chris Macosko, Joe Califf, and 
Mike Emerson jogged in the long
distance evetns. With this addi
tion, plus several other outstand
ing freshman, to eleven out of 
fifteen returning lettermen who! 
have indicated they will partici
pate this year, prospects look very 
good. Most of the team will par
ticipate at the Junior A.A.U. meet 
at South Park next Saturday.
This year the team is coached 
by Reed Clarke, a star runner for 
Pitt several years ago. The mem
bers of the team have learned to 
appreciate the efforts of their en
thusiastic coach, who not only
lists individual work-outs for each 
person but makes sure that these 
hard workouts are carried out. If 
one doesnt like to work hard, 
which is the only way to be good 
in track, only then will he not 
appreciate the coach.
Even though the teams pros-1 
pects look good, built around the 
! nucleus previously mentioned, 
there is still lack of depth at all 
positions and important vacancies 
or good athletes in several posi
tions that require filing in order to 
ensure success. The most signifi) cant weaknesses can be found in 
the weight events, such as the 
j javelin and shot-put, in the middle 
I distance running events, 220-880, 
i and in both hurdles. Therefore, 
the track team and Coach Clarke 
invite all interested persons to 
come and join them in their fun.
amnDQ nRk ,nRFnP 
HnPr aDhcR UR 
UoWo HnfNr HrRRQi
After leading his four - man 
team to the I. M. table tennis 
championship, freshman V e n u 
Chari won the singles champion
ship and then teamed up with 
Dan Punzak to win the doubles 
crown.
In the singles competition, 
Chari beat Punzak in the semi
finals and then when on to whip 
Bill Kilmoyer in two straight 
games in the finals 21-16 and 
21-12.
The doubles championship was 
run on a double elimination ba
sis and was unusual in that 
Chari and Punzak had to beat 
Kilmoyer and Singel twice to 
take the crown. They narrowly 
beat them once in the winners 
bracket 21-18 and 21-16. Then 
Kilmoyer and Singel won in the ; 
losers bracket and moved into 
the finals. Chari and Punzak won 
in two straight, 22-20 and 21-19, 
to win the intramural champion
ship.
Sigma Nu Takes 
First Place In 
IM Wrestling
Sigma Nu took three individual 
first places on two pins and took j 
two seconds to rack up 25 points 
and ran away with the intraj mural wrestling championship.
Sigma Nus Bob Erskine pinned 
' his opponent in the 140 lb. class 
in 1:48 while teammate Tony Wil
liams only needed a minute, eight 
seconds in the 150 lb. class. Dave 
Horvath won the other first for 
Sigma Nu in the 180 lb. class. 
Other individual winners were 
Harold Corbett, independent, 130 
: Ib.; Jim Barr, BTP, 160 lb.; Warj 
ren Olson, BTP, 170 lb.; Bob 
Balzer, BSR, 170-B; and Pete 
Brotman, BSR, unlimited.
FINAL STANDINGS
Sigma Nu  25 
Beta Sigma Rho  15 
Beta Theta Pi  10 
Alpha Tau Omega  8 
Dorm. - 8 
Ind.  7
Sigma Alpha Epsilon  2 
Grads.  2
THE SAM SPIEGEL DAVO LEAN Production tt
LfflYKENCEOF
A Mm I Jm. to*'**'**amKwa&PMum. sup th
SEATS NOW AT BOX OFFICE OR BY MAIL 
,gUaL sSK ,LgCAgWsSaL ua4LK80L
Alt EVENINGS AT M5All MATINEES AT 2:15Prices iTo* Included)Orch. & Mezz. BalconyEvenings: Sun. thru Thurs.$2.50 2 00 $1.50Evenings; Ffi., Sot. & Hols.$3.00 $2.50 - $2.00Matinee; Wednesday$2.00 $1.80 $1.50Matinees: Sat,, Sun & Hots.$2 30 $180 $1.50
NAME ________-.......................................
ADDRESS
No of SEATS AT $ ................. MAT. EVE. _____
DATE REQUESTED ______ALTERNATE DATE ________
MAKE CHECK Ot MONEY OM>E* PAYABLE TO NIXON THEATRE.PLEASE ENCLOSE STAMPED. SELF ADOHESSED ENVELOPE.PO* THEATRE PARTY INFORMATION, CALI 281 -6650.
EXCLUSIVE TRI-STATE AREA SHOWING
C liberty Avenue UWAM BOX 0FflCE 
Pittsburgh 22, Pa. Phone 281-6673
At last, somebody has buttoned down the perfect collar
TRI-STATE PREMIERE
THURSDAY, APRIL 4, at 8:15 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

If you have an advanced degree, lets talk some more.
You'll be part of a 3500-person facility 
responsible for R& D on America's 
lunar, planetary, and interplanetary 
explorations, ff you come to Caltech's 
Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, 
California, youtl find the finest technical 
facilities in the world like the library 
with 125,000 technical documents, 
the most sophisticated computers, 
space simulators, acres of laboratory 
space, ami about three support people 
for every one of you. And you'll be 
working with the finest scientific minds 
in the country. If you want to 
think hard for a living, you should 
think hard about coming to JPL.
$MI 6RO6LGHCON GA1ORAIORS
4800 Oak Grove Drive, Pasadena. CoWornla 
"An equal opportoftHy employer.
OfXifted by Cltfotwj toiWvte of Technology, 
lor Notional Aeronautics & Spoce Adaupittration.
Victors Take 9 of 12 Tank Events
By Ken Kantrowitz
A powerful Trojan swimming 
fUeam captured six of the nine 
events as it easily won the 1963 
Intramural Swimming Meet, last 
Tuesday, March 19. The Grad 
Eagles (37 points), who won the 
other three evetns, placed second 
to the Trojans (58 points). ATO 
and BTP tied for third place team 
honors with 15 points apiece. SAE 
with nine points and PiKA with 
Jfone point rounded out the scoring. 
The meet was completely domi
nated by the Trojans and Grads 
as they collectively scored 95 
out of the 135 points awarded. 
Points were awarded for the first 
four places in each event. The 
sevent individual events were 
scored 6-4-2-1, while the two re
lay events were scored 10-6-4-2. 
p Rick Blackburn, the high scorer 
of the meet, led the Trojan at
tack with 15% points with two 
individual firsts and swimming in 
the victorious 150 yard Medley 
Relay. Pat Crecine (13 Viz points) 
of the Grads was the second lead
ing scorer as he also captured two 
individual events; his 200 Free
style Relay took second. The next 
three leading scorers, Ken Kantrowitz (12V2) of the Trojans, 
John Kapner (11V2) of the Grads, 
and Ken Frankel (lOMO of the 
Trojans, each captured an indivi
dual event to round out the in
dividual titlists. John Regan 
(7-5/6) and Ben Long (6%) of 
the Trojans enabled the Trojans 
to take five out of the first seven 
individual scoring honors. The 
other two places went to the 
Grads. Jan Anstatt (6%) of BTP 
and John Weyer (4%) led their 
Respective teams to a tie for third 
place team honors. SAE was led 
by Rudy Molck-Ude with four 
and the lone entry for PiKA, 
Sandulli, scored one.
Five new Intramural meet re
cords were set, three of them
Tryouts Begin 
*for Golf Team
Undergraduate students inter
ested in competing in the trials 
for selection of players for the 
intercollegiate golf team should 
appear at the Longvue Country 
Club by 1:00 P.M. on the follow
ing dates: March 28, March 29, 
April 2 and April 3.
All participants should check 
-with Mr. Rogers in the Regis
trars Office, A. H. 160, before 
these dates.
. m
TONITE AT THE
15TRM1D !
OAKLAND
NOW SHOWING
Tony Curtis Yul Brynner
TARAS BULBA
Eastman color 
also In color 
Doris Day Steven Boyd 
in Billy Roses
JUMBO
Starting Wed., Apr. Srd 
Academy Award Show
Ann Bancroft Patty Duke
THE
MIRACLE WORKER
also
Burt Lancaster 
and Thelma Ritter
BIRDMAN OF 
ALCATRAZ
Coming Soon 
4 LBS. OF TROUBLE
MU. 3-6992
automatically, as these events 
made their initial appearance in 
an I.M. meet. In the four other 
events, new records were missed 
by as little as .1 seconds and as 
much as 1.3 seconds, indicating 
the high caliber of the swimmers 
in the meet. On Intramural Night 
last Friday, March 22, medals 
were awarded to the winners in 
the seven individual events and 
to the members of the two relay 
teams which won.
In the first event of the meet, 
the 150 Medley Relay, Grisnik, 
Blackburn and Regan, of the 
Trojans, missed the record by .4 
of a second, ATO, BTP, and SAE, 
followed in that order. Crecine 
(25.0) set a record in the 50 free 
by 1.5 seconds. Long, who tied 
the old record, finished second, 
while Frankel and SAEs Mehltretter placed. Blackburn copped 
a new event, the 100 Individual 
Medley in 1:13.8. He was followed 
by May of the Grads, Regan, and 
BTPs Lynch. In the only closely 
contested battle for first place of 
the afternoon, Kantrowitz touched 
out Kapner in the 50 Butterfly, a 
new event. Both men had identical 29.2 times. Cranwell (SAE) 
and Sandulli took third and 
fourth. Frankel and Anstatt took 
first and second in the 100 free, 
the former mising the record by 
.8 seconds. Ken Knight (Grads) 
and Dave Easley (Trojans) scor
ed. ATO and the Grads dominated 
the 50 backstroke, the only event 
in which the winning Trojans 
failed to place. Kapner, (31.4) 
missed the record by .1 seconds 
while teammate, Jordan, placed 
fourth. Weyer and Unger of ATO 
placed second and third.
Blackburn (34.5), Molck-Ude, 
May, and ATOs Harvey 
in that order in the 50 
stroke. Crecine (2.22.2) beat out 
Kantrowitz by 14 seconds in the 
third new event on the program, 
the 200 freestyle. Ossip of the 
Betas and Easley finished more 
than thirty seconds later. In the 
final event, the 200 Freestyle Re
lay, the Trojan team of Long, 
Frankel, Kantrowitz and Regan 
set a new mark by .1 seconds, as 
they negotiated the distance in 
1:50.4. The Grads, BTP, and ATO 
finished in that order.Swimmers push off for the back stroke in IM swim meet.
On Campus Interviews:APRIL 4 and 5, 1963
Contact University Placement Office for Appointment
Wednesday, March 27, 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Fae 11
Trojans Win Intramural Swimming;

---------------------------------------------------

rase 12  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, Mardi MEN IMS
IM Rifle Season Set
Tryouts Begin April 6
On April 6, 1963, team tryouts 
will be held for intramural rifle. 
Each man will fire five rounds 
prone, five rounds kneeling, and 
five rounds standing. The top five 
Shooters of each team on this 
course will fire th2 same course 
for record on April 20 for record 
team scores. Persons or teams not 
present to fire at appointed time 
will automatically be disqualified. 
Each man will be given thirty 
minutes to zero his rifle and fire 
for record.
On April 20, each team will be 
given 150 minutes to fire or thirty 
minutes per man. Each team will 
be given one point in which to fire 
all five men.
Career 
Opportunities 
In The 
Sun Country
On-campus interviews
April 9. 1963
For Mechanical, Elect r i c a 1, Metallurgical 
and C hemical Engi
neers at B. S. level bv 
representatives of
Albuquerque Division
ACF
Industries,
Incorporoted
Albuquerque, New Mexico
For more information 
visit your 
Placement Office
ACF Is an Equal 
Opportunity 
Employer99
URvDndeDnN SQImv 
HDhlmQri scnDkrk
(continued from page 9) 
and the Psi-Clods took first place 
in the minor leagues.
SAE interrupted ATOs vol| 
levball sweep with a first place j 
in co-rec volleybal before ATO 
resumed its trophy-taking with 
its trophies for regular volley
ball and three-man volleyball. 
Harvey Gammon accepted SAEs 
trophies for co-rec, Tom Black
wood took the trophy for regu
lar, and Chip McKnight received 
the trophy for threeman. Fred 
Kosofsky received the MVP 
award.
Venue Chari swept the table 
tennis awards as he received the 
trophy for the Sparrows in team 
play, the trophy for singles play, 
and one of the trophies for 
doubles play, Punzak also re
ceived a doubles trophy.
The Grads Fred Kosofsky re
ceived the trophies for the 
Eagles first places in tennis and 
squash, and after the game for 
basketball.
In the remaining trophy 
awards, Bob Erskine accepted the 
wrestling award for SN, Bob DeRvais received BTPs bowling 
award, and his own MVP award 
in bowling. Steve Foels accepted 
the award for ATO in foul shoot
ing, Bob Mercer received ATOs 
water polo trophy, and John Re
gan accepted the swimming tro
phy for the Trojans.
Tryout Schedule, April 6
Sigma Alpha Epsilon A  8:00 a.m. 
Beta Sigma Rho  8:30 a.m.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon B  9:00 a.m. 
B. Thaeler and
Pi Kappa Alpha B  9:30 a.m.
Pi Kappa Alpha A  10:00 a.m. 
Alpha Tau Omega  10:00 a.m.
Beta Theta Pi  10:30 a.m.
Sigma Nu  11:30 a.m.
Kappa Sigma  12:00 a.m. (noon) 
Tau Delta Phi  12:30 p.m.
Delta Tau Delta  11:00 p.m.
Team Schedule  April 20
Team Point Time
Tau Delta Phi 1 8:00 a.m.
Kappa Sigma 2 8:00 a.m.
Sigma Nu 3 8:00 a.m.
Beta Theta Pi 4 8:00 a.m.
Alpha Tau Omega 5 8:00 a.m.
Pi Kappa Alpha A 6 8:00 a.m.
Pi Kappa Alpha B 7 8:00 a.m.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon A 1 11:00 a.m.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon B2 2 11:00 a.m.
Beta Sigma Rho 3 11:00 a.m.
Delta Tau Delta 4 11:00 a.m.Tankmen hit the water in IM swim meetPhoto by Aron Collons
Safe garmet protection in our cold storage vault. 
Avoid moth and storage problems this summer. 
Use our box storage facilities
CRANDALL - McKENZlE
Cleanthru Dry Cleaners
3935 Forbes Ave. Open 8 til 8 MA. 1-7500
Boys night out?  Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack .  . or Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318Get Lucky
Flay "Crazy Questions
50 CASH AWARDS A MONTH. ENTER NOW. HERES HOW:
First, think of an answer. Any answer. Then come up with 
a nutty, surprising question for it, and youve done a 
"Crazy Question. It's the easy new way for students to 
make loot. Study the examples below; then do your own. 
Send them, with your name, address, college and class, 
to GET LUCKY, Box 64F, Mt. Vernon 10, N. Y. Winning 
entries will be awarded $25.00. Winning entries sub
mitted on the inside of a Lucky Strike wrapper will get a 
$25.00 bonus. Enter as often as you like. Start right now!
(Based on the hilarious book "The Question Man.'*f
RULES: The Reuben H. Donnelley Corp. will judge entries on the basis of 
humor (up to */&), clarity and freshness (up to Vi), and appropriateness (up 
to Vi), and their decisions will be final. Duplicate prizes will be awarded 
in the event of ties. Entries must be the original works of the entrants and 
must be submitted in the entrant's own name. There will be 50 awards 
every month, October through April. Entries received during each month 
will be considered for that months awards. Any entry received after April 
30, 1963, will hot be eligible, and all become the property of The American 
Tobacco Company. Any college student may enter the contest, except em
ployees of The American Tobacco Company, its advertising agencies and 
Reuben H. Donnelley, and relatives of the said employees. Winners will be 
notified by mail. Contest subject to all federal, state, and local regulations.
I THE ANSWER:
row:
uoisnoH jo A|un lucilo
ui d99|S XoqMoo snoui 
joua ue saop *eqM :N0LLS3fl 3H1
THE ANSWER:
)iOJ}3Q JO A|un 'SIJJOW r d 
3uopq
u *iu I *>| f ' sjauai am op iaqeqdje 
am jo uojpas jeqM u| :N0llS3fl 3Hi
THE ANSWER:
vuun auanb-iew odn satuef 
a|3ueu) XjBuipjo ue uem jaSuoi 
iSBi oi punq i. *eq/\A :N0I1S31 3H1
THE ANSWER:
HAipdRABlS(ODE
jeg -os io Aiun 'snutfaa uMf
ippeo iqejnuiuieH 
snssiui pippeiJM :N0llS3f 3H1
THE ANSWER:Ticker Tape
~l
I
nexfw suaanQ Maseio ft iday f
aujip
eui qdejoipjeoojpa|a am joj uuai 
s.ueuiAei am st*eqM :N0IIS3f 3Hi
THE ANSWER:
Mpaj. jo -jsui -ssew "JT qs,ew -x ^aqoy |
ujni )ja| e |eu3is o\ asn ssojj I 
eqie ue saop *eijM :NliS3fl 3H1 !
THE ANSWER IS:
Get Luckythe taste to start with...the taste to slay with
THE QUESTION IS: WHAT DO YOU GET WHEN YOU REQUEST A PACK OF THE 
MOST POPULAR REGULAR-SIZE CIGARETTE AMONG COLLEGE STUDENTS? 
Right! You get Lucky; you get the fine-tobacco taste of Lucky Strike. This great 
taste is the best reason to choose Luckies ... the big reason why Lucky smokers 
stay Lucky smokers. So get with it. Get Lucky today!
Product of dmjtMtc&n t/v&ww-fmyxanp  Ju&uc<r is our middU nam
