----
VOLUME VNOVEMBER 23, 1910 
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
NUMBER 10
Ubm-UEKLBftTUDEtmOFTHE
(AmtlC-TCfini(AL-S(11L5M

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
...................................................................................................... V; I-2t 2V
*
Mosf n/ce affairs whether 
it be a Ball or Dinner are 
held at The Rittenhouse, 
where every appointment 
is perfect,

XeI &1 %
Si Boys This is the Headquarters for SC
IV HART, SCHAFFNER & MARX AND W
f)} SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES m
5>* See Our Suit & Overcoat Special for $20 & $25 5<*
Ul H. A. FRIEDBERG IV
f)j 439 Smithfield Street, - - Pittsburgh, Pa. 0
fu Open Evenings f'
----/WJS
| For Thanksgiving
i\^4i\4,\4,\4,S4,\4,'k4,\4,\4,N4,\t\,i,\4,\4,S4N4,\ 4* ft<? *.V; 2  * X X e
4*
* *4* *
 EAT HALLER'S MINCE PIE, *
4*4* HALLERS FRUIT CAKE, **S 4-
J HALLER'S PUMPKIN CUSTARD, *
 'HALLER'S ICE CREAM. *^J> w>4* 4*
^ 3618 Forbes Avenue.
<f ?4 4
4^+3WM*4*+^*%*Vi>\+\4\+Vt\*VIVI+VI*
v >if See us for your Class, School, Club and Fra.3.
y ternity Pins 
% HEEREN BROS. & CO. j{
^ Penn Avenue and Eighth Street A
s We make and sell the Official Tech Pins S *
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY, )/Craig and Forbes St.,I 
? p s;I 8S0~S502S0~502S50SS025<
Beginners Class Tuesday and Saturday. J2* 
Advanced, Wednesday and Friday, Si
PRIVATE LESSONS DAILY. $
*1* *1** EVERY TECHNICAL MAN S4* 4s
will find the following papers of interest and ^
& value in his work.4* 4*
 They will keep you posted on the latest de^
& velopments in your chosen profession, 'they &** 4^% will tell you what the leading engineers in your *
^ line are doing. They will also keep you ing
4j formed of the openings in your profession <
* of opportunities for advancement throughout ^
 the field. j
* ELECTRICAL WORLD-Weekly^?3.00 a Year. *
^ The foremost electrical journal of the
* world. Covers the entire electrical art and ^
* industry.
4* ENGINEERING RECORDWeekly$3 a Year, ff A4. Devoted to civil engineering and allied subjects. Covers municipal engineering, indus4j 
trial engineering, railway, civil engineering, 4*
* bridge anu structural engineering, power *
^ plants, public works, etc. *
J ELECTRICAL RAILWAY JOURNALWeekly *
4* $3.00 a Year. f
 The accepted authority in all branches of
2 electric railway engineering. 4*
 Write for Special Student Rates & Sample Copies ^ 
 McGRAW PUBLISHING COMPANY J
2 239 West 39th Street - - - New York *# w>5, 4* 4-\4-N4-\4*\4>\4'\4'V*\4*\4\4*\4*Vf'Vi'VI'\4*\4*\4**
4*OVi-a\4*.0\4*OVK>%4<*%4;>VK>\4*OV:<^4*0\4*0*8X2c "STo-u. rEC3^.o"w ^
that we print more books than any firm 0in the East End ?....................................ZOO ~Z" 0"U. KT33.0T77"that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaflets elicit the admiration oflovers of FinePrinting?..................................................
X3o ""ST013. US;ii.O"Wthat we are prompt, and that an order for a dollar receives as much care and attention as one for a hundred dollars? .
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to .
SFiUlS cSc lilTSCHEB,S
 6117-6119 Kirkwood Street
I&1 B1 o1 IysT&hitH Mgr , Tartan, is our representative at  Tech. ,
Bell Phones86 and 9216 HilandCf
0S0*O\O%^%O*O\*DVD\O%O%0%O%D**O\O%
OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET 
Dealers inBUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA. COFFEE AND CANNED GOODS
Bell Phone 710 Schenley3714 FORBES STREET
\4\4*\4*S4-\4*\*\4*\4-\4-Vfr\4'*4*\4*\4*%4-*4*Vi*\4' v }
 Quality the Best Prices Moderate *
? Bellfield Restaurant and Lunch Room
% Corner Craig and Forbes Streets *1*PITTSBURGH, PA.
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ
^ Are now in their new building, 535 Wood Street  
& Stationery, Engraving, Artists Materials 
O Draughtmens and Engineers Supplies f
S.XXXXX XXXXXWXXXXXXXXXXXXXWXKXXXXXX

---------------------------------------------------

file (Tartan
PITTSBURGH, PA., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1910No. 10VOL. V
TECH FIGHTS GAMELY AGAINST PITT
Light Carnegie Team Displays Grit and Stamina in the Struggle with Heavy and More Ex
perienced U. of P. Players.
Headed by the student band, three hundred Tech 
students marched to Forbes Feild last Saturday to 
see the Tech-Pitt game. Hundreds who were una
ble to get away in time to enter the parade joined 
the line at the field. Eight hundred Carnegie men 
entered the gates in a body, howling and shouting 
like demons. To this loyal band was shown the 
gamest fight ever put up by a Tech team. Out
weighed in all positions, there being a disparity of 
as much as sixty pounds in some positions, the 
team at one time ran the ball to Pitts 15-yard line 
and missed scoring only by the narrowest margin. 
This occurred in the first quarter, when Hull failed 
in two tries to drop kick a field goal. In the third 
and fourth quarters likewise, the game was even. 
Only in the second period did Pitt have any great 
advantage, scoring twenty-three of their thirty-five 
points during this period. In the third quarter the 
hopelessly light Plaid team broke up play after after 
play, keeping their heavy opponents in the center 
of the field, and forcing them to punt time after 
time. The last period was much the same, the 
Blue and Gold only scoring after several of our best 
men had been laid out. This score resulted directly 
from a run by Budd after receiving a forward pass.
Although Techs star end, Dyer, was out of the 
game on account of illness, his absence was hardly 
felt. McCorkle and Kesselman performed brilliant
ly, the former in particular, doing some of the finest 
tackling ever witnessed by Pittsburg rooters. Sev
eral times he brought down Pitt runners from be
hind when they apparently had a clear field for a 
touchdown. Hull and Taylor also tackled well.
Blairs work at center against heavy Polly Gal
vin was good.
Brown and Peacock were the stars for Pitt, al
though Budd and Dewar did good work. In the 
first period, Brown got away for a run of 50 yards, 
the first touchdown coming directly after this.
The, second touchtown resulted from several short 
runs by Budd and Wagner. Then Techs bad period 
started. Blanchard fumbled a punt and Peacock 
recovered it on the. one-yard line, Quailey carrying 
the ball over. Hull had hardly kicked off again be
fore Wagner, in two runs, placed the ball on Techs 
25-yard line. Then Lindsey pulled down a forward 
pass for a run of twenty-yards. From there a line 
buck carried it over. Shortly after the next kickoff, Peacock blocked one of Hulls punts and car
ried the ball over for a touchdown.
Techs gains were made mostly on forward 
passes and onside kicks, McCorkle capturing one 
of the latter for a gain of thirty-five yards. On the 
whole, the team played very well against their 
heavier and more experienced opponents.
The rooting for both schools was good. Both 
sides yelled loud and long, each cheer-leader en
deavoring to produce more noise than his opponent. 
To the impartial spectator, this was one of the best 
features of the game. Cheerswere given and songs 
were vociferously rendered. The latter were sung 
with great enthusiasm to the music furnished by 
the two bands which made music for the respective 
armies of rooters.
The game in detail: 
Galvin kicked off to Kesselman on the 10-yard

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
line, and the little end returned it 20-yards before 
being pulled down. Taylor made a yard at tackle 
and, on a fake kick, Blanchard gained one more 
around right end. Hull punted to Brown, who ran 
the Dali back 25 yards to Tech's 45-yard line. Budd 
made 10 yards outside of tackle, but Wagner, in two 
plays, could only gain a yard. Lindsey failed to 
drop kick a field goal from the 35-yard line, the 
ball going out of bounds on the 21-yard line. Hull 
lost a yard at tackle, and then punted to Budd on 
the 42-yard line. The latter was tackled before he 
could gain a yard. Brown gained 3 yards through 
one tackle and Quailey barely made first down 
through the other. McCorkle, by a brilliant tackle, 
threw Budd for no gain, and Moorhead stopped Brown 
on the next play. Wagner punted out of bounds on 
Techs 35-yard line. Hatcher could not gain at end. 
Blanchard then passed over center into the hands 
of a Pitt man, but the latter fumbled, and Taylor 
recovered the ball on the 43-yard line. Hatcher 
slipped around tackle for 2 yards and Hull, on a 
fake kick, gained 9 yards at end. Hull then punted 
to Budd, who fumbled, and McCorkle fell on the 
ball on Pitts 19-yard line. 'Hull immediately fell 
back for a drop kick, but the ball went wide. How
ever, Stephenson was offside, and the ball was 
given to Tech on the 14-yard line. Hull again 
failed in a drop kick, and Pitt put the ball in play 
in a scrimmage on the 25-yard line. Budd, aided by 
excellent interference, made 60 yards around end, 
McCorkle finally dropping him on Techs 35-yard 
line. Tech could not stop Brown until he had 
gained the 8-yard line, and, on the next play, Budd 
carried the ball over for the first score of the game. 
Galv n kicked goal. Hull kicked off to Budd, and 
the latter gained 15 yards to the 35-yai;d line. Here 
the whistle blew and the quarter was over.
Brown failed to gain at end, and Wagner kicked 
out ol bounds on Techs 40-yard line. Taylor failed 
to gain at tackle, and Polly Galvin pulled down 
a forward pass for Pitt on his own 43-yard line. 
Wagner gained 13 yards and first down through the 
line, and Brown reeled off 10 more around end. 
Wagner gained 8 yards in two tries at the center of 
the line, and Budd gained the same distance around 
end. Brown failed to carry the ball over by only 3 
inches, and Budd gained the honor of making the 
touchdown on the next play. Galvin failed to kick 
goal. Score 11 to 0. Hull kicked off to Wagner on 
the 10-yard line, and the latter waded through to the 
33-yard line. Kesselman stopped him there by a 
beautiful tackle. Peacock carried the ball to Techs 
35-yard line on a forward pass from Budd. Wagner 
gained 10 yards at center. Pitt was then penalized
5 yards because Galvin moved the ball to draw 
Techs men offside. Budd gained one yard at end, 
and Wagner kicked to Blanchard on the 5-yard line. 
The latter fumbled, and Peacock recovered the ball 
on the 16-yard line. Quailey covered this distance 
on the next play, and Galvin kicked goal. Score 
17 to 0.
Hull kicked off to Quailey, who ran it back 30
yards from the 5-yard line. Wagner gained 4 yards 
at tackle, but dropped the ball, and a Tech man 
fell on it. Here the referee claimed that the ball 
had stopped before the fumble and that it was Pitts 
ball. Wagner rounded tackle and carried the ball 
to Techs 25-yard line. Peacock received a forward 
pass and gained 20 yards before Kesselman stopped 
him. Quailey carried it over through guard. Gal
vin kicked goal, making the score 23 to 0. Hull 
kicked to Wagner and he ran it back to the 32-yard 
line. Wagner punted to Blanchard on Techs 33- 
yard line. Hull lost a yard at end. On the next 
play, Peacock blocked Hulls kick and carried it 
over. Galvin kicked goal. Score 29 to 0. Hull 
kicked off to Bailey on the 25-yard line, Hatcher 
downing the man before he could take a step. Budd 
gained 5 yards at tackle. Wagner then punted to 
Blanchard at the center of field, and half was over.
During the intermission, the Pitt coaches made 
several changes, shifting Budd to halfback in place 
of Brown, and sending Dewar to quarter. D. Rich
ards took the fullback position and Wagner replaced 
Peacock at end. Newbrand for Hull was the only 
substitution made by Tech. Galvin kicked off to 
McCorkle on the 10-yard line, but he fumbled and 
Budd fell on the ball on the 25-yard line. Budd not 
only failed to gain at end, but Pitt was penalized 5 
yards for offside play. Dewar gained 1 yard at 
end and Galvin missed a field goal from the 40-yard 
line. Tech put the ball in play by a scrimmage on 
the 25-yard line. A forward pass was intercepted 
by a Pitt man on the 30-yard line. Quailey gained
3 yards through the line, but, on the next play, Pitt 
was penalized 10 yards. A forward pass was gath
ered in by Kesselman on Techs 30-yard line. Roessner hurt his shoulder at this stage of the game, 
and Gilkinson took his place. Taylor lost a yard 
and Blanchard punted to Dewar at the center of the 
field. He returned it 5 yards before McCorkle 
caught him. Quailey gained 5 yards at tackle, but 
Dewar drew 5 yards for starting before the ball. 
Richards lost 2 yards at end and punted to Hatcher 
on Techs 35-yard line. McCorkle lost 2 yards at 
end, and was roughly handled after being tackled, 
but gamely continued in the game. Hatcher could 
only gain 1 yard at tackle, so Blanchard punted to 
Dewar at the center of the field, Hatcher tackling 
him before he could move. Budd slipped through 
tackle for 6 yards, but failed to gain on his second 
trial. D. Richards kicked to Blanchard on Techs 
29-yard line. McCorkle gained 9 yards on a for
ward pass from Taylor, but Newbrand lost 2 yards 
at center. Here the quarter ended, with the ball in 
Techs possession on her 36-yard line, with third 
down and 2 yards to .gain.
Blanchard started the fourth quarter by punting to 
Budd on Techs 50-yard line. Budd fumbled and 
Hatcher got the ball for Tech. Taylor lost a yard 
utackle. A forward pass was then tried, but was 
blocked, Kesselman regaining the ball for the Plaid 
on their own 40-yard line. Taylor could not gain 
at end and Budd carried the ball to Techs 39-yard

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
line when he pulled a forward pass out of the air. 
Dewar made 8 yards at end and Richards gained 
the 25-yard line and first down through guard. Budd 
was knifed through tackle for 7 yards and Richards 
battered through guard for three more. Budd again 
gained 7 yards at tackle. On the next play Pitt 
fumbled but recovered, and in the scramble Lloyd 
was kicked in the head and had to be carried from 
the field. Scott took his place at guard. Dewar 
slid around tackle for 3 yards and Budd carried it 
to the 1-yard line. Richards was then showed over 
for a touchdown. Galvin kicked goal, making the 
score 35 to 0.
Here Taylor, who was pretty badly bruised up, 
was taken out of the game. Newbrand took his 
place at half, and Newbrand went in at quarter. 
Blanchard kicked off to Dewar, and the latter made 
a 15-yard run to the 36-yard line. Budd made 5 
yards at tackle and Richards kicked to Blanchard. 
He fumbled but recovered the ball on Techs 40- 
yard line. Here the umpire discovered that Scott 
had dislocated his shoulder, and Saunders took his 
place. Hatcher lost 4 yards, but Blanchard recov
ered the distance on a plunge through center from 
a fake kick. Hull kicked to Dewar, who returned 
it 10 yards to Techs 50-yard line. Butler carried a 
forward pass to the 23-yard line. Budd and Rich
ards made 7 yards through the line, and Galvin 
failed to kick a field goal from placement on the 25- 
yard line. Hull punted from the 20-yard line to 
Budd at the center of the field. The Pitt half ran 
it back to the 10-yard line, but the ball was taken 
to the 25-yard line for holding. On the next play, 
Pitt received an additional penalty of 15 yards for 
holding in the line. Richards punted over Techs 
goal line. Blanchard punted out from the 20-yard 
line to Budd on Techs 50-yard line. Dewar made 
45 yards around end, carrying the ball to the 5-yard 
line. Time was then called and the game was over.
f ech.Pos.Pitt.
Kesselman ...............L. E____................... Peacock
Weaver..............L. T____
Moorhead . ...............L.G____
Blair ............................C................................... Galvin
Lloyd .........................R.G. . . .
Roessner . .................R.T____
McCorkle . ..............R. E____.................... Lindsey
Blanchard . ................Q.................................... Budd
\Taylor ......... . ...........L. H____...................... Brown
Hatcher...............R. H____.................... Quailey
Hull ...........................T................................ Wagner
RefereeFry,Ft. Pitt A. C.UmpireMerriman,
Geneva. FieldJudgeSmith,Bdcknell. TouchdownsBudd2,Brown, Quailey, Peacock, D. Richards. Goalsfrom touchdownGalvin 5. SubstitutionsNewbrand for Hull, Gilkinson for Roessner, 
Hull for Newbrand, Newbrand for Taylor, Scott for 
Lloyd, Saunders for Scott, Budd for Brown, Dewar 
for Budd, D. Richards for Wagner, Wagner for Pea
cock, Hinchman for Blair, Reed for Wagner, Butler 
for Lindsey, Feightner for Hinchman. Time of 
quarters10 minutes.
CARNEGIE TECH RECEIVES GENEROUS GIFT.
Andrew Carnegie, Founder and Patron of the 
Schools, Donates a Million and 
a Half Dollars.
Announcement was made last Wednesday morn
ing of the munificent gift which has just been given 
to the Carnegie Technical Schools by Andrew Car
negie, founder of the Schools. The amount which 
has been placed at the disposal of the institution 
is $1,500,000.
Stories have appeared in the Pittsburg and New 
York papers placing the amount at from $1,500,000 
to $3,500,000. This was probably due to the fact 
that Mr. Carnegies gifts in the past have always 
been accompanied by an endowment to be used for 
the purpose of taking care of the new buildings 
which are constructed. It is entirely probable that 
the present donation will be followed by an endow
ment fund of $2,000,000. However, nothing has yet 
been done along this line.
No definite plans for the expenditure of the fund 
have been formulated at this early date. The list 
given below is a fair approximation of what may 
be done when the Board of Trustees takes action 
upon the matter.
For an Administration Building to probably con
tain by a big auditorium and students restaurant, be
sides all the offices of the Administration, $,50,000.
For an Applied Design Building, $300,000.
For an addition to the Margaret Morrison School, 
$250,000.
For the School of Applied Science, completing 
the buildings and finishing the grounds, $300,000.
For completing Machinery Hall, $200,000.
For equipment, $100,000.
The balance will be used for miscellaneous pur
poses, special equipment, grounds, etc. The above 
l5st is entirely approximate and will probably be 
considerably changed before things are finally set
tled.
Director Hamerschlag is extremely optimistic 
regarding the future of the Schools. In a recent 
interview he said: There is no doubt but that Car
negie Tech will rank first among the colleges of the 
country. With new buildings and new equipment 
our facilities will be unequaled.
Tech already possesses an enviable reputation 
among the big schools of the United States and but 
needs the impetus which will be given by our in
creased domain and advantages to take her place 
at the very top of the educational world.
AHA!
Out at the Margaret Morrison Tech School young 
women are being taught how to cook with a view 
of not transforming their future husbands into con
firmed dyspeptics. There is no need to teach them 
how to catch a husband.Pittsburgh Gazette Times.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pitts
burgh, Pennsylvania
EDITORIAL BOARD.
James K. Lamoree, 12.............Editor-in-Chief
Donald D. Mitchell, 12...........Associate Editor
John H. Clements, 13.................Athletic Editor
Helen M. Baglin, 11, M. M. C. S., Assoc. Editor 
Florence A. Flinn, 11, M.M.C.S., Assist Editor 
Horace P. Smith, 13.................Assistant Editor
H. J. McCorkle, 11.............Business Manager
C. C. Hixenbaugh, 12... .Advertising Manager
Subscription Rates
Yearly  .............................................................$2.00
Single Copy.....................................................10 Cents
Student Rates
Yearly .....................................................................$1.00
Single Copy......................................................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools
THANKSGIVING.
Thanksgiving Day is close at hand. Fair Autumn 
with her riot of color and her balmy coolness has 
given way to Winter, the Storm-King, with his 
legions of frost-gnomes and snow-fairies. The 
farmer sits before his cozy fire-place and gazes con
tentedly out of the window upon his shorn fields 
and well-filled barns. The hustling cityite gathers 
his ulster tightly about him and hastens home by 
trolley or train to the tender ministrations of loved 
ones who awrait him. A spirit of contentment and 
happiness seems to infest everyone. Thanksgiving 
Day is near.
Did it ever occur to you that we sons of Carnegie 
have more than the usual blessings for which to be 
thankful? Did you ever pause to think, in the 
midst of your surfeit of foot-ball and turkey, that 
we too have much to make us content? Ours is a 
long litany. Let us be truly thankful.
For the consideration and help and love bestowed 
upon us by our founder and true benefactor, one 
who finds the keenest delight in our advancement 
and progress, one who watches our march with the 
eyes of a true friend, one who has never yet failed 
us when we have needed him most, let us be thank
ful. 
For the guidance and aid we have received from 
our Director and his staff, men who are ever work
ing for our good and the good of our Alma Mater, 
let us be thankful.
For the kind Providence which has given to us a 
student-body whose loyalty no adversity can shake, 
whose spirit no defeat can rout, let us be thankful.
For the flourishing condition of our student activ
itiesa Glee Club which is the best in years, a 
Dramatic Club which is fast taking a stellar place on 
the stage of college theatricals, a Band which can 
make music, societies and clubs which are doing 
excellent work along engineering lineslet us be 
thankful.
For the athletes who represent us, good, clean 
players who fight to the finish and never recognize 
defeat, let us be thankful.
For the present excellent condition of the treas
ury of the Athletic Association, which, due to the 
efforts of Dr. Savage, the Director, Treasurer Cogs
well and a few other spirited men, is now free from 
debt for the first time since the founding of the 
Schools, let us be thankful.
Let us be thankful for the immense educational 
advantages surrounding us, for the good health 
which allows us to grasp our opportunities as they 
come, and for the spirit of good-fellowship which, 
enveloping us, makes our pathway rosy, and our 
struggles easier.
For these and the many other blessings which 
have been showered upon us, let us be truly thank
ful.
BOARD OF CONTROL FAILS TO MEET.
The meeting of the Board of Control of the Ath
letic Association which was slated for Wednesday 
evening, November 16, did not take place. The 
number of members who reported failed to make 
a quorum and no business could be conducted. 
Another meeting has been called for Wednesday, 
November 30. As the new Board goes into 
Oiuce the first week in December, this will 
be the last meeting of the old Board. The 
interest shown during the past year by some of the 
representatives has been extremely poor. It is 
hoped that the new Board will accept its responsi
bilities more seriously than the outgoing Board has 
done. When a man who is elected to an office by 
his fellow-students does not care enough for their in
terests to attend a monthly meeting, his constitu
ents should rise up and oust him.
TECH-PITT NIGHT AT THE ALVIN.
The Midnight Sons proved an excellent attrac
tion at the Alvin Theatre last Saturday night when 
the Tech and Pitt football teams occupied posts of 
honor. Hundreds of students from both institutions 
were present and cheers and college songs inter
spersed the line of good music and good comedy 
which was handed over the footlights to the recep
tive public. During the intermission between acts, 
Cheer Leader Hecker got out upon the stage and led 
the Carnegie rooters in a series of yells. The boxes 
occupied by the respective teams were decorated 
with pennants and presented a very pleasing ap
pearance.
The Alvin management is to be congratulated 
upon the manner in which the affair was conducted.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
HON. R. A. BALLINGER VISITS TECH.
Secretary of the Interior and Party Inspect the 
Schools and Address the Students.
On Thursday, November 17th, in the Applied De
sign assembly hall, an interesting talk was deliv
ered to the students of the Applied Design and Ap
plied Industries, by Hon. Richard A. Ballinger, Sec
retary of the Interior.
Judge Joseph Buffington, a member of the Board 
of Trustees, was first introduced by Director Hamerschlag. The Judge in a short speech then intro^rcea secretary Ballinger to the students. Tl>8 
Secretary spoke of his pleasure at being able to 
visitTech while in Pittsburgh in the interests of the 
government and congratulated the students upon 
the advantages of present day education which are 
embodied in the Carnegie Technical Schools. He 
talked of the Department of the Interior; of its or
ganization in 1844; its control of public lands, the 
census, Indian affairs; of the large number em
ployed in the service. The Pittsburgh testing la
boratory was mentioned as being under the Bureau 
of Mines, an important part of the Department of 
the Interior. The address was closed with good 
wishes to the school.
Director Hamerschlag then introduced President 
A. C. Dinkey of the Carnegie Steel Co. Mr. Dinkey 
made a short speech, offering his felicitations to the 
assembled men.
After Secretary Ballinger and his party had left 
Director Hamerschlag spoke to the students, touch
ing upon Mr. Carnegies gift to the Schools and also 
saying a few words regarding the Pitt game. He 
commended the students for the spirit they have 
shown and the manner in which they have sup
ported the foot-ball team this fall.
The Ballinger party, composed of Secretary Bal
linger, Assistant Secretary Don M. Carr, Chief Clerk 
Van H. Manning, Judge Buffington, A. C. Dinkey, 
Director Hamerschlag, W. P. Field, Secretary of the 
Carnegie Technical Schools, F. R. Babcock, Presi
dent of the Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce, and 
William A. McConway, Chairman of the Committee 
on Technical Schools, took luncheon at the Univer
sity Club immediately preceding the visit to the 
Schools.
Secretary Ballinger and his party were spending 
two days in Pittsburgh inspecting the new United 
States testing laboratory at the old Arsenal grounds.
The new laboratory which has been brought to 
Pittsburgh very largely through the efforts of Di
rector Hamerschlag, and Dr. Jas. A. Holmes, Direc
tor of the Bureau of Mines, is a very important gov
ernment station and its installation is considered 
quite a feather in the municipal cap.
The executive of the Arthur Hill estate has no
tified the University of Michigan that the estate is 
ready to pay over the $200,000 left to the University 
for an auditorium.
| M. M. C. S. |
cuSMEJSMSMSJEMSJ 313f5J3M5JBJSM13M5JSMSJBJ513MI3JEMSJcii
The cold weather has infused everyone with the 
desire to work and all of our clubs and teams have 
made a start for the winter.
Wednesday afternoon the first basket-ball game 
was played. It was scheduled Seniors versus Jun
iors, but the teams were rather mixed, as the girls 
could not get together and so our Plebes helped. 
The playing was good for a start and much enthusi
asm was shown by the large audience which 
cheered in turn the active girls.
The Glee Club held its election on Wednesday 
afternoon with the following result:
ManagerHelen Baglin.
Secretary and TreasurerAnna Crawford.
LibrarianEdna Moorhead.
The first practice after the voice trials for new 
members, was on Thursday. It was well attended 
and shows that talent will not be wanting this year.
THISTLE BOARD.
It is essential that the first meeting of the Thistle 
Board take place on the week of November 27th. 
This cannot be accomplished if the Junior night 
students do not elect their representatives before 
November 25th. The Junior class presidents should 
make every effort to have their respective schools 
represented on the Board, and consequently in the 
Tech Annual.
Up to date the Board consists of the following 
members:
Applied Industries, Day
H. M. Gousha, J. C. Irwin, P. Dlvernois.
Applied Industries, Night
Wm. Hartman, N. B. Wolf, R. Wagner.
Applied Science, Day
Jas. Knapp, H. Holiday, A. F. Riedl.
Applied Design, Day
C. E. Moss, L. A. Withers, P. S. Mewhinney.
M. M. C. S., Day
Oiive L. Jenkins, Elizabeth M. Yagle, Clara M. 
Jayme.
It is hardly fair for the delinquent night classes to 
thus retard the work of the Board. The matter is 
one which demands immediate action, and it is up 
to the night classes to do their duty.
We sincerely hope that the required arrange
ments De made before the time specified.
H. M. Gousha,
Editor-in-Chief.
The University of Pennsylvania Library has now 
passed beyond the 300,000 mark in the number of 
books on its shelves, placing it among the first rank 
of university libraries in this country.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUES EAST END
SHOES
SEE THE NEW TOE KI D D 9
Made up in Heavy Fall and Winter Tan Button and Blucher 
SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS EOR THE FALL STYLES
MECHANICAL BANQUET.JcMS!3I31SlSiSM3MSMSISI3MM3MSJ3M5MSMSJSlM3Slt
I PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT j
iciia5l!3IBc!Ji?M315MMBEiaifli3J5M3M3M5I5f3MSJ5JSMSISjSJDiJ
\The turkey is the bird which finds a place in the 
heart of hungry man just about now.
Foot-ball season is over. Note how happily your 
erstwhile foot-ball player puffs away at his little 
nickle corn cob.
\
The rooting at the meeting addressed by Secre
tary Ballinger was very poor indeed. It is up to 
the Industries and Design men to get together when 
occasions of this kind arise.
Manager Scott says that he is again sleeping and 
eating as a rational human being should do.
Thor Engstrom, whose leg was broken in the Al
legheny game, is hobbling about the Schools on 
crutches, disabled but cheerful. He will probably 
be incapacitated until after Christmas some time.
This afternoon is the time set for the annual Bot
tle-washersEngine-wipers foot-ball game. A 
mighty struggle is expected.
The Science Preps are organizing a basket-ball 
team and will be ready to schedule games with 
other classes in the near future.
BASKET-BALL BENEFIT.
The concert and dance held in the gymnasium 
Monday evening for the benefit of the basket-ball 
team was a very pretty affair. Hunter Johnson and 
his company of colored entertainers proved worthy 
of the name. Singing and readings of merit filled 
the hour from 8.30 to 9.30 oclock. At 9.40 dancing 
was commenced and was continued until 1.00 oclock. 
The all-string orchestra made up its lack of volume 
by the excellence of the music, it rendered. The 
gymnasium was tastily decorated with a profusion 
of red, yellow, green, and blue pennants and pre
sented a pleasing appearance. About sixty couples 
were in attendance and a very successful evening 
was the verdict of those present.
Highly elated over the successful season which 
the Mechanical foot-ball team has had, the Junior 
Mechanicals have decided to give a banquet in 
honor of their team, Monday, December 5th.
Manker, Phillips, Raisig and Patterson have been 
elected on the committee of entertainment. Cap
tain Patterson is expected to make a speech on foot
ball and its relation to higher education. 
Manager Holiday, to whose efficient administra
tion the team owes much of its success, will between 
bottles give a talk on the possibility of having 
Walter Camp mention Dalas for the All-American 
team.
Coach Henderson will give a talk on the desira
bility of cigarette smoking and pie eating as an ad
junct to the training table. Bigelow will give a talk 
on the efficiency of blue light for various injuries 
incurred by the player while pursuing the higher 
branches of research on the foot-ball field.
ALL YE 
WHO PLAID WEARERS BE 
ATTENTION!
Next Monday night the ANNUAL FOOT-BALL 
CELEBRATION will be pulled off at the Nixon 
Theatre. The Tech Team has been invited to at
tend as the guests of Miss Janis. Pitt, High School 
and Shadyside will also be there and Miss Janis has 
offered a medal for the fellows who display the best 
grade of School Spirit. Fellows, this is a cinch 
for us. Weve got the yells, weve got the spirit, 
all we need is a sufficient representation at the 
Nixon for this occasion. Well win in a walk. A 
special section has been set apart for the Wearers 
of the Plaid. We want to see that it is filled to 
overflowing.
NOW GET TOGETHER, TECH.
Seats are now on sale at the storerooms in the 
Applied Industries Building. Ask Scotty and 
Keally about it.
The Board of Trustees of the University of Maine 
has passed a rule prohibiting the Freshmen from 
living in fraternity houses. This goes into effect 
next fall.

---------------------------------------------------

TH TARTAN9
Jas. J. Flannery, PresidentJ. J. Booth, Vice-President. J. G. Pew, 2d Vice-Pres. and Secy
C. B. Aylesworth, Treasurer.
RESOURCES OVER ONE AND ONE'HALF MILLION DOLLARS. DEPOSITS OVER ONE MIL
LION DOLLARS. CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUS
AND DOLLARS. A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
A CRITICISM.
As a general rule, the grounds and walks about 
the Schools have been well laid-out and have been 
kept in good condition, taking into consideration the 
fact that most of the latter are temporary affairs. 
The board-walk leading from the Margaret Morrison 
School to the Applied Science building is a glaring 
exception to this rule of efficient maintenance. The 
runway is composed of planks thrown together in a 
very crude manner, illy-constructed both as to 
beauty and durability. Walking over the contrap
tion is an ordeal at best; some of the boards are 
loose, the ends do not fit together and the narrow
ness and inclination of the walk make travelingburdensome. When the runway becomes wet or 
icy from recent rains or snows, walking to or from 
school becomes, not only a task but a positive source 
of danger to the student who must tread the treach
erous path. The planks, worn smooth by constant 
use, take on a coefficient of friction so close to 
zero as to be a matter of conjecture. Many an un
suspecting lad has felt the jarring impact of old 
Mother Earth upon portions of his anatomy intend
ed by Nature for gentler usage. The only alterna
tive at hand is to walk in the road which is gen
erally more ofa mud-track than a driveway.
Something should be done to remedy this evil and 
should be done at once. The thing has been neg
lected for seven or eight months and it is about 
time that the authorities take some action in the 
matter. Hundreds of men and women use this 
boardwalk daily and as it stands it is a constant 
menace to life and limb. The cold weather which 
is upon us with its snow and sleet makes the ques
tion imperative.
It has been suggested that the planking be re
moved and a wide cinder path be substituted. This 
can be done with very little labor and a minimum 
of expense. However, anything would be better 
than the present shoot the chutes which we are 
compelled to use.
HeI would like to tell about a little incident 
that happened while I was crossing the East River 
from Jersey City.
SheOh, please do, I just love Ferry Stories  
Harvard Lampoon.
APPLIED DESIGN.
Class B Order and Plan projects in Architecture, 
the first of the current year, were rendered Monday, 
Nov. 14, at 10 A. M. The subject of the order 
project was An Entrance Driveway to a Court, 
while that of the plan was an Automobile Garage. 
There were more drawings submitted at this rendu 
than at any previous one in the history of the School. 
Thirty-one order projects and twenty-six plans were 
sent to New York for judgment. The drawings in 
both classes showed study and hard work on the 
part of the students assisted by the criticism of 
the professors.
Programs for the second Class B Order, Class 
B Plan projects and Class A Esquiesse-Esquiesse were issued Saturday, November 19th, at 
2 P. M.
The judgment of the Foot-ball Posters designed 
by the class in Illustration resulted as follows: 
Misses Murna A. Dunkle, first mention, first place; 
Eleanor Tener, first mention, second place; Clara 
Ihrig, first mention, third place; Kathrene Kennedy, 
second mention, fourth place, and Messrs. L. B. 
Claggett and J. M. Williamson, Jr., third mention, 
fifth place.
ALUMNI SMOKER.
The Alumni Association of the Schools of Applied 
Science and Design held a very successful smoker 
Friday evening, November 18th, at the Fort Pitt 
hotel. A very creditable percentage of members 
of the Association were present. Among the guests 
present were Director Hamerschlag, Secretary 
Field, and Supervisor of Athletics Dr. Watson L. 
Savage.
During the course of the evening, speeches were 
made by the above named gentlemen and by several 
of the alumni members. Conditions within the 
Association and the condition of athletics in Tech 
proved fruitful topics for discussion. Several let
ters from Carnegie men who are at work outside of 
the United States were read by Mr. Field and were 
very interesting. The first Monday in January was 
the time set for the first business meeting of the 
Association. A rousing session is assured as the 
men are beginning to realize the influence which 
our alumni can wield if they but take the proper 
interest in Tech affairs.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
Forbes and Atwood Sts.Oakland
e' Best Store
Mens Kid Gloves special $1.00 a Pair.
Mens Fall and Winter Weight Union Suits 
(Superior Make) $1.00, $1.50 to $3.00 a Suit.
Onyx Brand Silk Hosiery for Men, Black and all 
Colors, 50c a pair.
MECHANICAL-CIVIL SOCIETIES MEETING.
Last Saturday evening, before the joint meeting 
of the Carnegie Mechanical and the Civil Engineer
ing Societies, a lecture was given by Mr. Meyers 
of the Mining Department on the Development of 
the Locomotive.
Lantern slides were shown of the various types 
of locomotives, beginning with those used in the 
early days of railroading and ending with slides of 
the modern types of locomotive. The respective 
merits of the mogul, consolidated mallet, camel 
back, and Atlantic types of locomotive were dis
cussed in the lecture.
The Walchaert valve gear which is now so uni
versally used on the modern locomotives was com
pared to the older type of locomotive gear in 
which four eccentrics are used.
The relative cost of steam and electric locomo
tion, the respective merits of nickel, steel and va
nadium in steel rails, the respective merits of the 
steel and timber tie, the progress made in the use 
of mechanical stokers, were some of the subjects 
covered by the lecture. After the lecture the mem
bers of both societies went to the surveying room 
and did ample justice to the refreshments served 
there.
Stories were told while sitting around the oil 
lamps, the electric lights going out promptly at the 
scheduled time.
Everyone thoroughly enjoyed the meeting.
TECH BAND ORGANIZES.
The Tech Band held a meeting recently for the 
purpose of getting together an organization. Offi
cers were elected:
LeaderP. J. Wilson.
Assistant LeaderE. E. Cochran.
Secretary-TreasurerR. L. Kirk.
LibrarianR. E. Rayburn.
Business ManagerJ. A. Welker.
The Band has had a very successful season so far 
this year. A band of eighteen pieces has been avail
able at most of the home foot-ball games and the 
music has been such as to compel recognition. The
* ag THE SCHENLEY FARMS g
^ The Garden Spot of Pittsburgh 
^ The place to live for convenience, pleasure and $ 
^ profit.
D0%0%0%0%0%0S0%0\0%0\0%0\0*0*0Sk0\0*0\;
Bell Phone
DRESS SUIT RENTAL. CO.
523 Pittsburg Life Building 
liberty Ave. and Sixth St., Pittsburg, Pa.
We have for rental Full Dress Suits, Tuxedos. Prince Alberts, Whit'e Vests, Opera Hats.
M acDonalds
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice CreamFancy BoxesBaskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
organization is fast taking its place as one of Techs 
important activities.
APPLIED SCIENCE NIGHT.
First Year.
The First Year Class of the School of Applied 
Science (night) met recently and organized. Offi
cers were elected as follows:
PresidentJones.
Vice PresidentWilson.
SecretaryGormley.
Tartan RepresentativeStevenson.
It was decided in the meeting to hold a smoker 
some time in the near future. The ida is to get 
the men closer together and to create a bond of fel
lowship among the men in the different sections. 
A program of music and speeches is being arranged 
and a successful evening is anticipated.
First StudentI ate a piece of Spearmint yester
day and it scared me to death.
Second StudentThats not unusual. It always 
takes my breath away. Princeton Tiger.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN11
CARNEGIE MECHANICAL SOCIETY.
Lecture on Railroad Signaling.
In connection with the series of lectures along 
railroad lines being delivered before the Carnegie 
Mechanical Society, a lecture will be given on the 
subject of Railroad Signaling, by Mr. Holiday of 
the Union Switch and Signal Co., on Saturday even
ing, December 3d.
To the lay mind there is considerable mystery 
attached to the automatic operation of railroad sig
nals, an operation which has now attained a high 
degree of perfection and intricacy.
Mr. Holiday, who is an expert on this subject, and 
who has introduced a number of new ideas into 
railroad signaling, will illustrate his lecture by lan
tern slides and will endeavor in his talk to clear up 
any mystery which may be attached to the subject.
This' lecture will be. the second of the series, the 
first lecture being given last Saturday on the sub
ject of The Locomotive.
The lecture following the one on Railroad Signal
ing, will in all probability be on the Automatic Air 
Brake as applied to high speed railroad service.
The automatic control of trains by use of com
pressed air has now reached a marvelous state of 
efficiency after long experimentation. The Air 
Brake was invented and has been largely perfected 
in the United States, .and to study same gives one 
a real insight into that ingenuity which is charac
teristic of the American.
The refreshment feature coincident to these lec
tures is being well attended to by Messrs. Bigelow 
and Stearns of the Refreshment Committee.
THE NEW GYMNASIUM.
Mr. McCulloch, the Physical Director of the Car
negie Technical Schools, announces the actual open
ing of the new gymnasium. This will be welcome 
news to the students of the Schools, and it is ex
pected that many will take advantage of their privi
leges from this time forward The shower-baths 
and dressing-rooms will be open at all times to all 
men who wish to use them and the various classes 
will have their special hours to use the floor. Prac
tically all of the new equipment is ready for use. 
The bars, rings and mats are all of the best, making 
it one of the finest equipped gyms in this section. 
The different classes will be formed as soon after 
Thanksgiving as possible.
CROSS COUNTRY RUNS.
The cross country men have been hard at work 
in preparation for the Inter-School Run to be held 
on the 3d of December. This run will be open to all 
Techites, and it is expected that a large number of 
entries will be received. The course will start at 
the Field House and extend through Schenley Park 
for a space of six miles back to the gym.
* *See the Tartan Manager for student rates on 4*
^ the following scientific papers; 
^ The Electric Railway Journal 
4* The Electrical World Xjr 44. The Engineering Record %
'*> 4*
Ijr
| Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
((( Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest
Dyeing and Cleaning Works 
5O25O~SO~SC^SO~SO~5C>~S50~SiO~S?O~SO~5CCe
4* For specials occasions when you want the best try Du'I*
Si
I
T quesne, the coffee of quality; one cartons, 30c lb.
| GEO. K. STEVENSON CO.
Sixth Avenue opp. Trinity Church
* Highland and Center Avenues, East End
Bell Phone I2I2-J Schenley
XjIEBJLIUa 
-------M erchant
Cleaning, Dyeing, Repairing and Pressing
BEOS.
Tailors-------
327 South Craig St. Pittsburg, Pa.
LISTEN, STUDENTS!
What is appreciated more than a photograph for a Christmas gift? This coupon and Si.25 at studio entitles students to six beautiful College Panel Photos.
OAKLAND STUDIO,
Forbes and Atwood Streets
Open Sundays. WAL,TER G. STEUKRNAGEL, 1r^p.
+*4******4**
The showing made by the various men will be 
used by Mr. McCulloch in selecting a team to rep
resent Tech in the big P. A. A. run to be held on 
the 17th of December. This will be divided into 
two classes, the Junior and Senior. The former 
class will be open to all men who have never won 
a first place in a run of two miles or greater. Five 
men will be entered in this class to represent Tech 
and a fair showing is expected. This run will also 
be over a six-mile course laid out in Schenley Park. 
All men who have ever tried the distance runs are 
urged to come out for the team.
Out of a symposium of sixteen former University 
of Pennsylvania foot-ball stars only two speak favor
ably of the new foot-ball rules. Most of them de
clare that the old game was less dangerous than the 
present open formations.
Get your class fobs either nickel, silver or gold, 
any year, at the SCHENLEY LUNCH, Craig and 
Forbes.

---------------------------------------------------

Barkley & Cummings
FORBES STREET PHARMACY
DO U KNO? We ' "y a full line of: 
Ankle Braces, Wristbands, Knee Caps, Station
ery, School Supplies, Etc.
* mens sweater coats, $1.50
4* Oxford Grey Worsted finish with good fish 
4 eye pearl buttonsdouble cuffs and double 
^ band at skirtsold everywhere at $2.00 and
& good value at that. Direct purchase from 
% manufacturer at closer price puts these Sweat$ or Coats on sale, $1.50.
Our Sanitary Soda Fountain is Unexcelled
Reymers, Johnstons and Park & Tilfords Con
fections always fresh and plenty to select from.
MELLON NATIONAL BANKBellefield Presbyterian Church
514 SMITH FI ELD STREET 
409 1 IFTH AVENUECAMPBELL COYLE, Minister
9.45 A. M.Brotherhood Bible Study. 
11:00 A.M.Morning Service.
7:00 P.M.Y. P. S. C. E.
8:00 P. M.Evening Service.
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF
STUDENTS
CAPITAL
SURPLUS
$4,000,000
$3,200,000All Tech Faculty and Student Body Welcome
(Am mtm mm ( lm lClm -Am mtm mtm mTm l (Am fAm (im
| TOGERY SHOP |
1* Where all the Tech Boys go. 4*
Are the Largest Manufacturers in the World oi
OFFICIAL 
EQUIPMENT
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes
iV^II are interested inI UU Athletic Sport you should have a copy of the SpaldingCatalogue. Its a 
complete encyclopedia o f WHATS NEW IN SPORT and is sent free on request.A, 6. SPALDING & BROS.
439 Wood St., Pittsburg Pa.
THE SPALDING
TRADE-MARK
Is known throughout the 
world as a Guarantee of 
Quality.
The Worlds Best Hatters Make 
Soft Hats and Caps for Comfort, Sport or L %
Travel. Derbies, Silk and Opera Hats for 5 *
Dress. The best only from the Worlds Best " *
Hatters. 2 %
OTTO OETTING 5 *
Seventh & Smithfield. Fifth & Wylie. ff
12THE TARTAN
