TARTAN
January 17, 1978 Volume 78, Number 15 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
inside
Door locking controversy arises after rape in Donner
by Belinda Quan
Questions arose concerning the policy 
of locking the exterior doors of dorms 
following a rape in Donner Hall Decem
ber 23 at 2:00 AM.
A young n an entered Donner through 
an unlocked exterior door, walked into a 
shower room and forced a girl at gun
point into hti room across the hall, 
where he raped her.
Security was called half an hour later 
and the Pittsburgh Police were called in 
to investigate the incident.
Security reports 
crime increases
by Saul Carliner
The Security Office recently released 
year-end crime statistics for 1977, with 
sharp increases noted in several areas.
Cases of simple assault showed the 
greatest increase, rising over three times, 
from 5 incidents in 1976 to 17 in 1977.
Likewise bicycle thefts increased 
twofold from twenty-one to forty-four 
thefts. However, automobile thefts 
dropped six times, from 23 thefts in 1976 
to 4 in 1977.
Incidents of fires rose once again in 
1977, continuing a steady pattern of in
crease in fires the past three years.
indecent exposures showed a twofold 
increase also, despite the fading of the 
streaking and mooning fads.
Additionally. work-related accidents 
showed a twofold increase, six cases in
1977 compared to twenty-eight in 1976.
However, both vehicle accidents and 
false alarm tires showed decreases during 
1977. Vehicle accidents declined from 
thirty-six in 1976 to twenty-five in 1977 
and false alarms show a slight decrease 
from fifty-nine to fifty-five incidents.
According to Bill Dillon, Director of 
Auxiliary Services, students voted not to 
lock the doors in a recent referendum. 
The mailroom for the Hill dorms is in the 
Donner basement, so the building can not 
be completely closed.
Many factors have to be considered, 
Dillon stated in reference to a locked
door policy. Students like to visit each 
other and non-Donner residents want 
access to lounges and other facilities not 
available in their own dorms. We want to 
increase security without decreasing 
the beneficial aspects (of campus life), 
said Dillon.
After the rape, temporary action was 
taken by the administration to lock the 
hall doors leading to the female areas. It 
is a good idea to lock the connecting 
doors, said one girl. I was surprised 
that a rape happened where I lived. But,
I was expecting something like that to 
happen because several rapes have oc
curred in Oakland and students on a col
lege campus are prime targets for rape. 
During a floor meeting in Donner, 
another resident stated that locking a door 
was against the fire code and may prevent 
him from leaving the building in case of a 
fire.
Some students wanted the front 
doors locked or the hall doors locked 
only at night. Another suggested the 
bathrooms be locked.
Corey Chase, one of the Resident Direc
tors, informed the group that the admin
istration was considering locking the in
side doors, keeping the front doors open, 
and having a monitor check ID s between
6 PM and 7 AM.
Mr. Michael Corlettti of the Security 
Office suggested that students should 
lock their rooms at all times. The critical 
times for rapes are between 10 PM and 6 
AM. Students should also inquire who is 
at the door before answering it, report 
unauthorized persons, work in groups in 
the academic buildings at night, and take 
advantage of the escort service.
Cold hinders snow removal
by Phillip Quito
I fell and hurt my knee on those icy 
sidewalks, stated one junior, but it 
wasnt bad, so I guess Im lucky.
Despite the icy conditions on the 
campus sidewalks., Security reported that 
there were no incidents of accidents due 
to the weather, though there were a few 
bumper-benders.
According to Joseph McNally, As
sociate Director of Physical Plant, the 
weather conditions made clearing the 
sidewalk nearly impossible.
McNally said that the subzero temper
atures last week made salt and chemicals 
ineffective in melting snow.
Similarly, what little snow could be 
cleared was blown back in place by the 
high-speed winds.
Consequently, the snow sat in place. 
McNally commented that the first prior
ities in sidewalk clearance are entranceways and stairs because this is where the 
most serious accidents occur. Then parking 
lots and sidewalks are taken care of, in 
that order.
Besides the poor weather conditions, 
Physical Plant had a manpower shortage 
last week which further delayed snow 
clearance. McNally stated that several of 
his men were out sick, many with the flu. 
He added that men were recruited from 
other sections including Maintenance, 
Custodial, and general labor.
When temperatures rose. Physical Plant 
was able to clear the snow and handle the 
problems caused by additional snowfall.
Besides the problems with the side
walks, McNally reported that there were 
frozen pipes Also, an accumulation of 
snow on the part of the roof over the 
fourth floor of the Hunt Library caused a 
leakage in the music section. However, no 
material damage was reported.
news...
SDC elections (pg. 2) 
Freshman wins picture contest(pg.3) 
Law club grows (pg.4)
sports...
Basketball team victorious (back page) 
Fencers host tri-meet (pg. 14^ 
Swimmers drown Hiram (pg. 15)
entertainment...
New Doonesbury book amusing (pg.9) 
Whats happening this month in town 
(Pg 10)
Carnegie-Mellon has a busy week in Sports
a much
a '
3mi i3
improved
8 2. 

Besides being the most memorable play of the game, Larry Hufnagel s 
dunk on a breakaway against Allegheny symbolized the intense play 
which carried CMU to impressive wins over its first two conference foes.

---------------------------------------------------

page 2TARTANJanuary 1/, iy/tt
Cedar Boint
Wed Uke To Discover You!
Tech Interview 1XXJ, Auditions 2:00
Morgantown Am - Tum., Feb. 7 Ramada Inn l-79/Exit 148 - Morgantown 
Pittsburgh Area - Wad., Fab. 8Howard Johnsons Motor Lodge Tpke. Exit 6/Rt. 22 - Monroeville 
Youngstown Area - Thurs., Fab. 9 Holiday Inn - North 1-80/S.R. 193 - Youngstown 
Cleveland Area - Fri., Feb. 10 Port OCall Resort Inn l-71/Brookpark Rd. - Cleveland
Also at Cedar Point Sat., Fab. 4; Sat., Feb. 11
Minimum Age 18
FOR OTHER AUDITION SITES 
AND FURTHER INFORMATION 
CONTACT 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT DEFT. 
CEDAR POINT. INC. 
SANDUSKY. OHIO 44870 
419-626-0830
Oo2
oOD>zo
NEWS BRIEFS
M.A.A. to seek Senate support
M.A.A., the unofficial maximum attention-seeking group on campus, has decided to 
seek recognition by the Student Senate.
According to Secretary Scott Sibley, many M.A.A. members objected to Senate 
recognition, because it entails many formalities like completing a budget and writing a 
constitution, and M.A.A. is an informal organization. However, the organization 
can receive Senate funds and can use Skibo facilities  if it is a supported organiza
tion. As soon as the group completes the necessary steps, it will go before the Stu
dent Senate for recognition.
Two CMIR researchers win award
Dr. Bernard Kirsch and Mr. Robert Callahan of the Carnegie-Mellon Institute of 
Research have been named as the winners of the 1977 Meggers Award.
The award is presented annually to the author(s) of the best paper appearing in the 
journal Applied Spectroscopy during the previous calendar year. Spectroscopy is 
the science of studying light through its wavelength components.
Messrs. Kirsch and Callahans paper,Sulfur-Isotope Ratios in Ultramarine Blue: 
Applications to Art Forgery Detection is a declarative work in the field of spectro
scopy and deals with the discovery of art forgeries through analysis of a paintings 
light spectrum.
LpERFORMERS-MUSICIANS-TECHNICIANSNEWS STAFF 
MEETING
7:30 PM Wednesday 
Skibo room 50
Looking for an MBA Program?
The M BA Program at the U niversity of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill has an excellent national ranking. Why?
A distinguished faculty, an outstanding student body, 
an innovative curriculum, and a reputation for quality 
among employers.
MBA Program 
The University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill 
Carroll Hall, 012-A, Drawer 5 
Chapel Hill, NC 27514
????????????
The SDC space
by Stephanie Waite
Elections for new SDC representatives 
will take place on Thursday of this week 
in Donner and Morewood lobbies.
SDC representatives have the opportun
ity to involve themselves in many aspects 
of residence life at CMU. The Social Com
mittee, for example, plans dances, both 
informal and semi-formal, for the campus 
to attend. Tnere is also the possibility that 
Social Committee will be planning a concert 
this semester.
The Film Committee choses the free 
Saturday night films. This semester, the 
films include Whos Afraid of Virginia 
Woolf?, Cabaret, New York, New York, 
Sugarland Express, and Myra Breckinridge.
SDC sponsors, during Spring Carnival, 
both a booth and a buggy. Buggy is an 
opportunity for non-fraternity people to 
get involved in the building and racing of a 
buggy. SDCs booth took first prize among 
non-fratemities in last years carnival, and 
again is a great opportunity for non-frat 
people to get involved in Carnival.
Other committees that SDC members 
may join are Publicity, Food Service, Fire 
and Safety, Spring Carnival, and Reno
vations.
SDC reps have also met in subcommit
tees, headed by Bill Dillon, to discuss such 
topics as co-ed dorms, lounge space, and 
financing the dormitory system.
SDC can have a lot of power, if the 
students get behind it with a lot of sup
port. If you want to run for council, con
tact either Sam Grego at 682-8959, Rudy 
Rutherford at 682-9286, or Carolyn Welty 
at 578-4822. Remember, elections are' 
Thursday, and even if you dont run for 
office, there is still room for you to help 
on one of these committees. Get involved, 
join SDC.
*
*






???????????????????????????????????????????????*???*???????? 
Student's Dorm Council (SDC) will 
be holding elections for new
representatives 
Thursday, January 19
in Donner & Morewood lobbies 
from 12 Noon  9 p.m.
Vote only if you live in an area 
where there is a vacancy.
???????????????a*********************************************











---------------------------------------------------

January 17, 1978TARTANpage 3
GET INVOLVED!
There are vacancies for Students' Dorm Council representatives in 
the following constituencies:
 BOSS & McGILL 
 DOHERTY, ROSELAWN, WOODLAWN 
 HAMMERSCHLAG 
 MOREWOOD A & B TOWER 
 MOREWOOD E TOWER 
 SHIRLEY APTS & WEBSTER HALL
 MUDGE
If interested contact: Sam Grego, 682-8959, 
Rudy Rutherford 682-9286, or 
Carolyn Welty, 578-4822 by tomorrow!
Senate murmurs
by Linda Deak
I quizzed a supposedly average CMU 
student to find out how much he really 
knew about Student Senate.
Q: Do you know what organization at 
CMU is responsible for allocating the 
Activities Fee worth $110,000? 
A: Entropy?
Q: What group is made up of students 
representing all colleges of this university? 
A: The Tartan football team?
Q: Do you know who meets in the 
Wherrett Room at 5:30P.M. on Wednesday 
evenings?
A: That must be a trick question. Nobody 
rVieets at suppertime, I dont care how 
dedicated they are.
Q: Youre not even close yet. Ill give you 
a hint, it has four basic committees: 
Academic Affairs, Finance, General Cam
pus, Information and Rules.
A: That frat, ZBT?
Q: Who decides if Activities Board can buy 
new lighting equipment or gives WRCT 
* money to finish a Master Control Room 
Board?
A: Dean Swank?
Q: This is a dead give-away. Who just held 
a two-day campus election in November 
open to all full-time students of CMU? 
A: The Pittsburgh Mayoral Candidates? 
Q: Are you sure that you go to school 
here?
&A: Well, Im in Architecture and am not 
exposed to much of the outside world. 
Wait  the name of the organization just 
came to meUltimate Frisbee.
I thought, So much for the quiz, but 
then I realized that I probably wasnt 
speaking to an average CMU studenthe 
didnt even know we had a bookstore.
Freshman photo enters in national competition
H&SS freshman Betsy Gribble won local competition in the 1977 Kodak International Newspaper snapshot awards for this September, 1977 snap
shot of the Niagara River rapids.
Betsy explained, "I wanted to capture the beauty and the serenity of the rapids even though the waters are so violent."
She entered her photograph in the ERIE TIMES NEWS' summer snapshot contest. After winning that competition, Betsy's photo has gone on to 
compete against 900 entries from 123 U.S. newspapers in national competition.
AB holds fair
Active students do it between classes, 
was the motto of the first Winter Activities 
Fair, sponsored by the Activities Board, 
Thursday, January 12.
The fair was planned to spur waning int
erest in extra-curricular activities. AIESEC 
President Glen Raiger said his group 
did get some new members, but he hoped 
to Ret more
Guide positions available May through October with Wilderness Voyageurs Inc., 
Guided River Trips. Must be 18 years of age or older, have current Red Cross Ad
vanced First-aid and Senior Lifesaving cards, previous experience in working 
with people, and paddling experience. For additional information contact the 
placement office or write:

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
What price excellence?
The uproar generated by the decision to phase out the 
Music Education option is focused on two distinct ques
tions: /s the decision itself a good one? and Was the deci
sion arrived at in a proper manner?
The answer to the latter question is such a resounding 
"No! that the first question becomes of secondary import
ance. For if Faculty Senate has its way, the decision will be 
reconsideredbut this time "with complete disclosure to 
the Music Department faculty of the arguments for and 
against the retention of the Music Education option so that 
any unconsidered alternative may be examined. 
A sobering fact is that the wronged Music faculty asks 
only for an apology, not a reinvestigation of the decision. 
Music Professor Donald Wilkins confesses, "Were an in
timidated faculty. 
As more and more dirt is swept out from under the rug, 
evidence that the Music faculty has been bullied into silent 
suffering and that the decision was made solely by President 
Cyert and Music Department Head Robert Page becomes 
in con tro vertible.
In an October 24 memo to his faculty, Mr. Page an
nounced that ",the option in Music Education will be dis
continued.  A cover letter to that memo said "the central 
administration of the University is behind this move 100%.  
More galling was Mr. Page's written assurance that Music 
faculty members would 'be given an opportunity [at the 
October 27 Faculty Senate meeting] to express your re
actions and, we hope, your support. 
The cover letter was marked CONFIDENTIAL and 
explained that the memo was "not to be discussed with 
students at all or with other members of the faculty except 
in the most confidential way. 
The process by which the decision was made and Mr. 
Pages generous offer are both laudable. There was probably 
no better way to remind CMU faculty and students that 
nothing stands in the way of President Cyerts ambition to 
make CMU a "great university. Choice quotes from his de
fense in this month's Focus reveal the Presidents singleminded goal:
"...we must be prepared to phase out programs when 
they do not support the long-run plans of the University for 
achieving national eminence. 
"...we must concentrate our efforts to achieve excel
lence. 
"We cannot settle for anything less than excellence in 
anything we do. 
"...I am confident his [Robert Page] leadership will carry 
us to true excellence."
And from today's View From The Top:
"We must...achieve excellence in education and re
search. 
Bravo, Dr. Cyert! It doesnt take a psychoanalyst to see 
where you want to take us. The only forseeable difficulty is 
the feasibility ot pushing a university up through the ranks 
of Goodness, Greatness, Excellence and Superiority all the 
way to Sheer Magnificence while dragging behind a cache of 
castrated, quaking professors.
Businesses have begun to realize that when workers have 
a say in their companys operations, worker morale and out
put increase considerably. Its odd that the managers of a 
university, supposedly dedicated to higher education and 
advanced research, do not subscribe to this basic principle 
of human behavior.
We hope now that the higher-ups responsible for this 
atrocious breach of protocol and blatant lack of respect 
tor their associates will admit their mistakes and reopen the 
investigation into the Music Education option. Faculty, 
student, and alumni response so far indicates that the deci
sion to phase out the program is a bad one. And no doubt 
the administration has already lost its biggest potential 
supportersthe Music facultyby giving these people no 
opportunity to contribute to the decision-making process.
At a Presidents Student Advisory Committee meeting 
before Christmas, Dr. Cyert conceded that "Bob Page is a 
conductor and he tends to run the department like a con
ductor.  Such dictatorial methods work well for orchestras, 
but when applied to a university faculty these methods 
become destructive and demoralizing. Steps should be 
taken by Faculty Senate so this flagrant disregard for the 
judgment of faculty members doesnt happen in the future.
Letters
Disgusting WRCT
Editor:
I wonder if TARTAN readers 
are familiar with probably the 
most disgusting show on the 
radio? This telephone talk show 
was on WRCT last semester at 
11:00 Tuesday nights, and im 
not sure whether this hour of 
comedy will be allowed to con
tinue this semester.
Two major loons ran the pro
gram which they called Getting 
Off on Your Telephone. The 
show served no apparent pur
pose, as people called in and 
talked and/or sang about almost 
anything. The moderators of the 
show claimed it was crude, rude, 
and lewd and with musical sel
ections between calls such as Wet, 
Dreams by the Fugs, they didnt 
miss their mark by much.
I was amazed that such crud
ities were aired and I loved it! 
While the show wasnt the fun
niest around, it did offer one 
hour of perversion...uh, diver
sion.
I hope the show continues this 
semester and if it does, 1 warn 10 
warn decent religious-type people 
away from listening to the show, 
lest they be turned into pillars of 
salt.Name withheld 
by request
No Command
Editor:
Why does CMU continue to 
hire professors who have an ex
tremely limited command of the 
English language? No matter how 
brilliant they are, if the students 
can not understand what they are 
saying, they are useless.
Another complaint is that they 
are book teachers, inflexible, 
and are incapable of applying the 
knowledge to real-life situations.
A remedy to this problem is 
to give an extensive oral exam to 
each professor from a nonEnglish speaking country, admin
istered by an outside agency.
Name withheld 
by request
Klein Comment 
Editor:
This letter is directed toward 
Barry Driks who wrote the art
icle on Robert Klein in the Dec. 6 
TARTAN. Although I found the 
article very informative and gen
erally well written, I was partic
ularly annoyed at his comment 
He(Robert Klein) dressed like 
an over-protected college fresh
man, wearing a sweater over a 
shirt, conservative dark blue 
pants. . . Does this mean that 
you assume anyone wearing short 
sleeve shirts or having an entire 
wardrobe of CMU T-shirts and 
bell-bottomed jeans year round 
to be a well-rounded individual 
capable of handling all his prob
lems? We might just as well say a 
person who wears the latter is a 
CMU Computer Nerd, but we 
know they are not well rounded. 
I suggest you control your com
ments and recognize good taste. 
Conservative does not mean over
protected.
Name withheld 
by request
TARTAN
Volume 78January 17, 1978Number 15
Editor-m-Chief 
Managing Editor 
Business Manager 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Folio Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
Sherry Siegel 
Tim Shields 
Ellen J. Silverman 
Saul Carliner 
Casey Childs 
Karen Yaksich 
Mike Jochmann 
V.R.V. Ramanan
Assistant News Editor: 
Photography Staff: 
Production Assistants:
Linda Deak
Mike Berqman, Skip Brazelton, Greg Lebowitz, George Lecomte, Chris Morrow, Mark Segal 
Naomi Kornhauser, Gary Walzer
Sherry Siegel 
.Editor-in-Chief
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 5782111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

CMU President Richard M. Cyert on 
iHow departmental decisions are madeView From The Top
Since the proposal to drop music educa
tion was made this fall, there has been a 
great deal of interest evoked in the way 
that decisions of such kind are made on the 
campus. I will try in this brief article to 
give you a somewhat better understanding 
of the process.
It is imperative in a school of our size 
* that departments do not try to cover the 
waterfront in their disciplines; that our col
leges do not try to cover the wide range of 
professional options that may be open; 
that the University does not attempt to be 
all things to all people. This philosophy 
means that we must look for areas in our 
departments and colleges where CamegieMellon University may have or may devel* op a comparative advantage. We must 
structure our departments and colleges so 
that the department heads can concentrate 
their small faculties in a limited number of 
areas to achieve excellence in education 
and research.
As a way of implementing this ap
proach, we engage in a great deal of plan
ning activity at the University. This kind of 
planning has gone on since I became presi
dent in 1972. It has been done in a variety 
of ways, but at all times the planning in the 
departments has been a crucial element in 
the process. Different department heads 
handle the problem differently. In some 
cases the department head does most of
the planning by himself in consultation 
with a small number of tenured faculty. In 
other cases, the whole faculty meets and 
attempts to participate in the planning. 
And in still other cases, it is all of the ten
ured faculty participating in the planning. I 
have never attempted to specify the pro
cess by which this planning should take 
place nor have I attempted to specify the 
amount of consultation that must go on in 
the process.
I respect the fact that different deans 
will behave differently and that different 
' department heads will behave differently. 
There is no single way to achieve an objec
tive. My own preference is for an initial 
formulation of plans by the department 
head or the dean and then an exposure of 
those plans to the faculty in the depart
ment or the college. This presentation 
should result in a great deal of discussion. 
On the basis of the discussion the plans 
might be rewritten. This approach is the 
one that I used as a dean.
While I think it is the best method, I 
would not attempt to impose it on other 
people because it would not necessarily be 
the best method for everyone else. It is also 
true that plans cannot be developed by 
voting, nor necessarily by consensus poli
tics. There are times when the structure of 
a faculty is such that a department head 
musttakeastrongstandev^
she may be in the minority.
The next step in the process is for the 
plans to be reviewed by the dean of the 
college and the group within the college 
that the dean may use as an advisory 
group. Ultimately the decision must be 
made by the president.
In the case of mathematics, the initia
tive to change the emphasis to applied 
math was made by faculty members. This 
suggestion was made at a time when there 
was a search underway for a department 
head. The next step was a meeting between 
myself and the department. At that meet
ing it was decided to appoint a committee 
to develop an applied math program. Once 
the department head was selected, he then 
took the responsibility for further develop
ment.
In the case of music, the scenario was 
somewhat different. The discussion about 
the role of music education in the depart
ment has a long history. Since 1973 it has 
been discussed in the meetings of several 
different music department committees. 
The department head in consultation with 
a small number of faculty members initi
ated the proposal for a change. It was the 
strong judgement of the small group that 
the music departments comparative ad
vantage lies in the development of a strong 
performance option and that the music eduction option would not in the long mn
contribute to the excellence of perform
ances. The proposal was backed by both 
the dean and myself. There was some 
abruptness in the way in which the pro
posed changes were brought to the faculty 
and to the faculty members directly in
volved. An attempt was made later, how
ever, to make sure that all faculty members 
had an input before a final decision was 
made. I should stress that this is my view 
of the situation and every faculty member 
will not necessarily agree. Some may well 
have felt because of the tone of the pro
posal that they were being asked to com
ment on a fait accompli. In any event, I 
feel confident that the decision is a good 
one and that the University will be 
strengthened as a result of it.
As always the views of students are im
portant and valuable. Nevertheless, in longrange planning those people who have 
made a permanent commitment to the 
University, tenured faculty, will tend to 
have the stronger role.
In summary I prefer to see as much dis
cussion as possible among faculty members 
and their department head on strategic 
plans, whether or not they involve change. 
Excellence for the University should be the 
goal of all faculty members. This position 
represents the kind of spirit that has given 
Camegie-Mellon an edge over the years.
more Letters
Housing Trainee?
Editor:
It seems to us that G. Dalton, 
the latest management trainee as
signed to housing, intends to per
petuate the type of policies that 
are so typical of his predecessors. 
I It pleases us that Dalton has the 
self-confidence necessary to spend 
our money without feeling a silly 
need to consider student preferen
ces. For example, consider the 
luxurious patio between Boss and 
Scobell Halls. Its chief purpose, 
it seems, is as a recreation area for 
students suffering from insomnia. 
For those wishing to sleep, espe
cially those of us with adjacent 
rooms, this is only a hindrance.
The latest policy emerging 
from the Dalton regime directly 
contradicts the alleged purpose 
of our housing serviceto make 
CMU a comfortable place to 
live. Let me be more specific 
Recently, after learning of a va 
f cant room in my hall, we com 
pleted the necessary and burden 
some paperwork now required fo 
a room change request. Only 
then did Dalton inform us that 
his policy was to allow room 
changes only if roommates are 
suffering from irreconcilable 
differences. He even went ahead 
to say that if a student came 
in here jumping up and down 
with a psychiatrist warning of 
an impending breakdown, his 
request would still have to be 
considered. He further stated 
that our prospective room may, 
in all probability, remain empty 
the rest of the semester, but 
thats the way it is.
Didnt we pay to live here? 
These rooms are not gifts we 
received. This is not a prison, is 
it? Obviously Mr. Daltons new
fangled ideas deserve a little more 
thought before they become 
policy. Im sure we are not the 
first or the last students to fall
victim to these edicts, but perhaps 
with a litttle more thought on the 
part of the leaders of this campus 
community, more rash policy 
decisions will be avoided.
The Occupants of Boss 104 
Bernard W. Lockard 
John A. Clark 
Joel M. Fisch
Strangers in the Night 
Editor:
I would like to thank all of 
those good people . . . brave souls 
... at CMU who helped push the 
many people who wer stuck on 
the ice at the comer of Forbes 
and Morewood on Monday, Janu
ary 9 at rush hour. It was truly 
kind and brave to voluntarily stay 
out in the extreme cold and wind 
and help strangers.
Thank you!
Marie Miller 
(one of those who were 
stuck and helped)
N1=Housing?
Editor:
Since I have not lived in a CMU 
dorm since I left Mudge Li 1962, 
I have been unable to evaluate the 
validity of the letters complaining 
about dormitory conditions. 
However, the TARTANs recent 
interview with housing director 
Dalton indicates to me that CMU 
is indeed fortunate to have ac
quired such a professional in the 
area of student housing. Dalton 
has revealed his astuteness in at 
least three ways:
a) As a perceptive observer of 
the behavioral consequences of 
socioeconomic status (c.f. his in
sightful and well documented con
clusion that students of predom
inantly middle and lower income 
backgroundsi.e., Pitt students 
have a much higher tolerance for
filth than the upper-middle in
come students who come to 
CMU.)
b) As a keen financial manager 
(c.f. his strict enforcement of the 
housing contract that, first, re
quires full payment from a stu
dent who leaves the dorm, and 
second, requires the remaining 
roommates to pay the departed 
students share of the rent-which 
is, of course, also being collected 
from the departee.)
c) As a sensitive interpreter of 
student insecurity (c.f. his defi
nition of unsigned criticism in the 
TARTAN as nonexistent criti
cism.)
As Mr. Dalton expects to spend 
the rest of this life in this pro
fession, we need only count the 
months until he formulates the 
ultimate maximization policy for 
his profit center:
1. Admit only students who 
have a very low tolerance for 
filth, so that they will be unlikely 
to remain in the dorm for their 
full contract. From Daltons 
theory, it follows that this means 
admit primarily wealthy students.
2. Adjust the filth and discom
fort level in the dorms such that 
in all rooms with N students 
(where N is greater than one), all 
but one student will leave before 
the contract is ended.
3. Charge the remaining stu
dent the full price that the N stu
dents would have had to pay, and 
also require the other N1 stu
dents to pay their share of the 
full price.
4. Make sure the students are 
insecure enough in their powerless 
relationship with the arbitrary 
whims of the housing office that 
they dont sign any of their criti
cisms. This will ensure that Dal
tons policy, will, by his own def
inition, remain uncriticized.
David Klahr 
Professor of Psychology
Rhodesian Concern 
Editor:
Clearly the University admini
stration has faced the recent de
velopments respecting the eight 
Rhodesian students with very 
great concern. But if the matter 
is left as at presentexpelling the 
students-I respectfully suggest 
that an outrageous mistake will 
have been made.
Whatever has happened must 
be forgotten when we consider 
what to do now. Whether the stu
dents misunderstood, whether the 
countrymen or friends are mis
taken (and I am not saying that 
any of these is to be assumed or 
granted) is not now the issue. No 
ones politics or influences are 
now the issue.
In the present situation eight 
inherently talented young indiv
iduals perceive that they are per
sonally in jeopardy and they may 
be. By its entirely good inten
tions, Camegie-Mellon University 
brought them here and to this 
pass.
This University community, 
trustees, administration, faculty 
and student body have a moral 
obligation now, regardless of the 
past, or of present political or 
economic inclinations of any one
concerned, not to discard or aban
don them. We may not step aside 
and see them sent back to uncer
tainty and perhaps personal peril.
Thomas M. Kerr
Associate Professor of Industrial 
Administration and Law
Cups for an Eternity 
Editor:
If there is an environmental 
club on campus, why don't they 
do something about the hundreds 
of plastic cups that Skibo uses 
every day? Please sign me,
Plastic cups will be here 
when you and i are gone.
Take a Professor to Lunch 
Editor:
How are you? I know you get 
a lot of letters of complaints, and 
people don't even ask how you 
are first before they launch into 
their problem. Well, 1 don't 
have a complaint, just a suggestion 
but before I suggest it I wanted to 
ask how you are first, because 
I'm sure you're a person too and 
no one ever asks you how you are. 
At least, not in the letters that 
I've read in the TARTAN.
Well anyway, here's my sug
gestion. Sure, CMU has a lot of 
problems. But let's not forget 
that we're basically here for an 
education. We should all try to 
make the most of our four years 
here. My suggestion is that you 
should try to be friends with 
your professor, because they're 
not just teachers, but people 
who have a lot to offer. It might 
be hard to get to know your 
professors in large lecture courses, 
but in the smaller classes, you 
should talk to him or her and 
think of them just as another 
person.
I guess what I'm trying to say 
is that you should try to make the 
most of your professors.
Please don't use my name. 
Thank you.
Your Friend
Mourning Humphrey 
Editor:
I would like to express my 
deep regret at the death of one 
of our country's greatest poli
ticians. I'm speaking, of course, 
about Hubert H. Humphrey, the 
late Senator from Minnesota. 
His championship of civil rights 
will be remembered for a long, 
long time. I feel the loss very 
personally.
Name withheld b>st

---------------------------------------------------

PER SEMESTER PER DAY
21 meals 
14  Breakfast 
Any 10 Meals 
7  Dinners 
10  Breakfast
5 - Dinners
& Dinner
& Dinner
Compare the figures!!! You can 
dollars a day. Stop in our office, 
suited to your needs.
FOOD SERVICEUNIVERSITY
The Department of Modern Languages and
Literatures will administer proficiency1- 
tests in French, German, Spanish and 
Russian on Saturday, Jan. 21, 1978, at 
10 AM, in the language laboratory, 
Margaret Morrison 310.
Any student may take one of these 
tests; there is no charge.
Students who demonstrate competence 
at the intermediate level will satisfy their* 
college and/or department requirements, 
in a foreign language. (Undergraduate 
only)
Students may also take this test in 
order to establish their level of competence 
in the language gained through self-study, 
study abroad, etc., or to determine their 
level of achievement in order to continue 
further study in that language. These 
tests are primarily designed for students j 
who have had two years or more of college 
language instruction although this is not a 
prerequisite for taking the test.
Students wishing to take one of these 
tests should sign up in the Modern Lan
guages Department Office, Baker Hall 
232-C, before Friday, January 20.
Paul Anderson, Ohio State University, will 
discuss "Adaptive Goal Seeking Capabil
ities and the Paradoxes of Government" 
at 3 PM, Friday, Jan. 13, in Baker Hall 
246A. Sponsored by the Social Science 
Seminar Series.
clubs
Tech Radio Club: W3VC, CMU's am
ateur radio club, will meet Monday, * 
January 23 at 7:30 PM at the Tech 
Radio Club, Room 401 Hammerschlagg 
Hall. All new members are welcome. 
The CMU Volleyball Club will meet 
Tuesday, Jan. 17, at 7:00 PM in Room 12 
in Skibo. The purpose will be to plan 
and discuss the upcoming season in the 
Western Pennsylvania Intercollegiate Vol
leyball Association. Anyone interested vl
in intercollegiate volleyball should attend. 
Anyone interested in reviving the Comput
er Club, please meet in Science Hall, Room 
6207 at 8 PM, Wednesday evening, Jan.18. 
The CMU Hockey Club team is in des
perate' need of a goal tender and other 
players. Anyone with any experience 
wishing to play, please call Jack Arturo 
at 7310804 or Steve Fuchs at 6651507.
ANNOUNCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
The CMU Alumni Association cordially in
vites you to attend the Wine and Cheese 
Reception and Senior Banquet on Satur
day, January 28, 1978 in Skibo. The re
reception will begin at 7:30, followed by 
the Banquet in the Cafeteria at 8:30. At 
10:00 the Dance in the Ballroom begins, 
featuring the band Full Deck. The Alumni 
Association will hold a drawing of prizes, 
including one set of two tickets to Monte 
Carlo, during the dance. Only seniors are 
eligible and the winner must be present. 
Dress is semi-formal. Tickets are available 
from the Alumni Office on the 5th floor 
of Warner Hall. RSVP by Wednesday, 
January 25, 1978.
AB Coffeehouse Committee presents Mi
chael Jerling-a New York singer accom
plished in folk, country, ragtime, and 
jazz-on Friday, January 20. Also appearing 
will be CMU's own Greg Tarsa. The Cof-: 
feehouse will begin at 9:30 PM in the 
Wherrett Room of Skibo. Admissiori is 
free and the entire CMU community is 
invited.
CONTEST-The CMU Law Club needs a
logo design suitable for use as a letter
head, poster symbol, etc. Prize is a $15 
gift certificate at the CMU Art Store. 
Address entries to CMU Law Club, c/o 
Room I03, Skibo(Campus mail only); 
or drop off designs at Skibo Information 
Desk. All entries must be received by 6 PM 
Jan 23.
Help retarded children and at the same
time get $1.50 off each ticket for the 
Pittsburgh Penguins/Boston Bruins Hockey 
Game Saturday, February 4. The special 
night with the Penguins is being sponsored 
by St. Peter's Child Development Center, 
a preschool for developmentally delayed 
and retarded children located in Oakland. 
Proceeds from the Penguins/Bruins game 
will go toward the Oakland Center where 
20 children are presently enrolled. Dis
count price tickets are available by calling 
St. Peter's Child Development Center at
683-3880 or through the Penguins Ticket 
Office.
Philosophy: A lecture by Ms. Anita
Allen of U. of Michigan on Paternalism 
and Children's Rights will be given at 
4:00 PM, Wednesday, January 18, in 
Baker Hall, Room 246. The lecture is 
open to the public.
All aliens in the United States must, with
a few exceptions, report their addresses 
to the Government each January. Forms 
for this purpose are available at any United 
States Post Office during the month of 
January. If you have friends who are not 
citizens, you will do both them and the 
government a great service by telling them 
of the requirements.
A course in Self-Defense will be taught by
Curtis Smith, who was the runner-up to 
the national champion in the US and 
also is an instructor at the Police Aca
demy.
The course is scheduled from 4:30 PM 
to 5:30 PM in Thistle Hall, Feb. 6, 9, 13. 
15, 20, 23, 27, Mar.2, and class size will 
be limited to 25 people. Sign up in the 
Athletic Office, Gym I02.
The Community Classes Division of Point
Park College will begin their Spring term 
on Thursday, February 2, 1978. Non
credit courses in Dance, Drama, Piano and 
Voice are available for children, teens, 
and adults in a fourteen week semester. 
Registration for the Spring semester will 
be held on January 26th and 27th from 
2:00 - 6:00 and 7:00 - 9.00 PM, on 
Saturday, January 28th from 11:00 AM 
to 4:00 PM. Late Spring registration will 
be accepted until February 22, 1978 for 
all classes except beginning levels. For 
brochure and further information, call the 
Community Classes Division of the Depart
ment of Performing Arts at Point Park 
College at 391-4100, ext. 339.
Professor Jay Kadane, Head of Statistics 
and Chairman of the Affirmative Action 
Committee, will discuss Affirmative Action' 
at CMU at a brown bag luncheon lecture, 
Tuesday, Jan. 17, Wherrett Room, I2PM. 
The lecture is sponsored by the Women's 
Task Force and is open to the public. 
Attention: All those who wish to be 
tutors for the spring of 1978, please 
attend a meeting in the Peer Help office, 
either on Tuesday, January 18, at 7 PM, 
or another on Wednesday, January 18, 
at 4:30 PM.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 3:30 in 260 Baker Hall.
Professor Erwin Steinberg of the Depart
ment of English will speak on "Structure 
in Joyce's A Portrait of the Artist as a 
Young Man" at 11:30 AM on Tuesday, 
January 24 in the GSIA auditorium. 
The lecture is open to the public.
PSI, Graduate School of Professional 
Psychology. Applications are currently 
being accepted for our PhD program in 
Clinical-Counseling Psychology. Existen
tial-humanistic emphasis. State approved 
for professional license. Write for free 
brochure, current catalogue $1.00. Dr. 
George Muench, Director, Dr. Peter Koestenbaum, Dean. PSI College Avenue, Palo 
Alto, California 94306.
Be Someone Special. Fly Navy.
Lt. Jack Reeven 
Campus visit Date 19 Jan 28 
Sign up for Interviews in Placement.
Train for the Navys sky now.
If you qualify, you can sign up for Navy 
flight training while you're still in college 
and be assured of the program you want.
Our AOC Program (if you want to be a Pilot) 
or our NFOC Program (if you want to be a 
Flight Officer) can get you into the Navy 
sky for an exciting, challenging career.
For more details, see the Navy Recruiter below.

---------------------------------------------------

Concrete Canoe Club wants you! The
CMU Concrete Canoe Club will hold a 
slide presentation and happy hour on 
Friday, January 20, at 4:30 PM in Porter 
Hall, Room 100. The presentation will 
include a review of past races and a dis
cussion of the spring 1978 schedule for 
construction and racing. We need people 
with a broad range of skills, including 
graphics, photography, paddling, and con
struction. All interested are encouraged
r to attend. Refreshments will be served.
~ Baseball Club: There will be a very im
portant meeting of the Baseball Club on 
Wednesday, January 18, at 9:00 PM in 
Room 11 of Skibo Hall. Attendance is 
mandatory for anyone interested in play
ing baseball this spring. If you are unable 
to attend, please call 6873575.
The Tech Flying Club will meet Wednes
day, January 18, at 7:30 PM in' Room
\ 45 of Skibo. All members of the CMU 
community with an interest in aviation 
are invited.
classified
Help wanted: babysitter. Experienced.reliable. Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. 
Forbes-Wightman area. 42I-6547, 624-4945 
For Sale: Standard poodle pups. Light
apricot color, male, good pets, good 
watchdogs, good showdogs. AKC. 
441-9297.
Florian's Hairstyling Salon of Vienna
Super haircutting for girls and guys. 15% 
Discount for. college students. 1831 Mur
ray Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217 Call: 
152-9900
Needed: Work/Study students for Career
Services and Placement Office. Must have 
AM hours available. Inquire Room 19 WH. 
Part-time pseudo secretarial help needed by
grad office. Call ext. 2236.
J.J.'s Junior Contempory Sportswear Shop
at I723 Murray Avenue in Squirrel Hill is 
looking for part time sales help. Experi
ence in fashion and sales is preferred but 
not necessary. Call 52l-9703or 422-8778. 
Ask for Selma.
Original Wedding Bands, why buy mass
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 2435458. Diamonds.
Female Roomate wanted for co-ed co
operative house. Own room, convenient 
location. $60/month, plus Util. 5217072. 
Squirrel HillBartlett Near MurrayRen
tal 3 to 4 students2 bedroom, large liv
ing, kitchen, 2 baths, private entrance, off 
street parking(2), near theatres, shopping, 
laundry, convenient to bus, restaurant, 
utilities. Immediate occupancy. Call Mr. 
Jim Quinn 462-73I6.
Show Your Valentine How Much You
Care! MAIL A VALENTINE TO YOUR 
r VALENTINE FROM VALENTINE. Send 
$l with each stamped, addressed Valen
tine for carefully timed re-mailing with 
beautiful personalized message from America's "Heartland." Valentines.
Trade Winds Lodge, NP3214, Valentine, 
Nebraska, 69201
Typing in my home-call 243-3029
after 6 PM.
awards
TGIF wants groups you like to hear.
If you know of a good local group or 
band you want to hear perform on 
campus call Stephanie at 578-4423 
or leave a note at the Skibo Information 
desk. Please give name of the group 
and if possible the name of a manager
to contact.
VIRA L. HEINZ TRAVEL AWARD
Women students who are currently com
pleting their junior year and who plan to 
study abroad in the summer between their 
junior and senior years are eligible to 
apply for the VIRA L. HEINZ TRAVEL 
AWARD. This award provides $2500 to 
a woman student at Carneige-Mellon 
University through the Pittsburgh Foun
dation as a result of a gift of Mrs. Vira L. 
Heinz, a trustee emerita. Application 
forms are available in Dean Cox's office, 
Room 204, Warner Hall. The deadline for 
submitting completed applications is 
January 31. Applicants will be requested 
to be present for an interview with the 
Selection Committee on February 15. The 
award will be announced immediately 
thereafter.
GOT
THE
WATERGATE
BLUES?
Professor Tom Kerr 
will be on hand 
to answer any 
questions concerning 
legal and pre-legal 
study.
Check Out the CMU 
Law Club
Wednesday, Jan. 18, 1978 7:00 P.AA
Room 12 Skibo
REFRESHMENTS SERVED
*0

---------------------------------------------------

page 8-TARTANJanuary 17, 1978
Law Club overcomes obstacles to gain support, members
by Greg Middleman
If you think the Law Club is visible now 
just wait until next month!
While many new clubs have difficulty 
staying alive, the Law Club, organized in 
October, looks forward to an active sem
ester of activities including lectures, re
ferral services, a luncheon with the Pitt 
Law Club, and a large membership drive.
Club President Paul Schoff attributes 
the success of the organization to the 
help of Julian Singer, Law Club Treasurer, 
who tried to form a similar group on cam
pus unsucessfully two years ago.
Schoff explained that Singer aided the 
organization in presenting a budget to Sen
ate which the legislative body would ac
cept. Schoff said that he came up with a 
tentative budget to present to Senate, but 
Singer pointed out that the budget was not 
itemized and lacked enough detail. They 
really want everything listed, Schoff 
added.
He continued to say that the Law Club 
developed an itemized budget, asking 
other groups, like AIESEC, for help. We
wanted to figure out how much money to 
allot for things like office supplies, Schoff 
stated about the help AIESEC gave them, 
though AIESEC has a much larger budget.
As soon as a budget was devised and 
the Senate gave the Law Club supported 
status, the group launched a membership 
drive. The group held a meeting in October 
to see if there was enough support on cam
pus for the organization. Eight people 
showed up, which encouraged Schoff and 
the founders to continue. After the Sen
ate recognized the group, it began an 
aggressive membership drive. The group 
now has 22 members.
Tactics include ads in the TRTAN 
and on WRCT, announcements in the Cam
pus Calendar and a logo contest. Schoff 
said that the group wanted a logo for its 
stationery, but prohibitive costs led them 
to look for student aid. The contest idea 
evolved, and Schoff hopes that will gener
ate the interest in the club. The prize is a 
$15 gift certificate to the CMU Art Book
store.
Schoff envisions the organization as a 
law r^fprral prvice, which has catalogs to
Spectroscopy Society of Pittsburgh 
January 18, 1978
MEGGERS AWARD NIGHT
Honoring
Dr. BERNARD KEISCH, Carnegie Mellon Univ.
Mr. ROBERT C. CALLAHAN, Carnegie Mellon Univ. 
Speaker Dr. David A. Shirley, University of California, Berkeley 
ADSORBATE STUDIES USING SYNCHROTRON RADIATION 
8:30 PM Duquesne University 
Mellon Science Building, Maurice Falk Lecture Hall 
MEETING OPEN TO ALL INTERESTED
OUR SPOTLIGHT
SINGERS DANCERS  
INSTRUMENTALISTS
NOW'S YOUR CHANCE TO AUDITION TO PERFORM 
ON THE MOST FAMOUS 
STAGE OF ALL...Disneyland. / Watt!) World,
A twelve week summer workshop in entertainment. Scholarships and 
housing grants will be awarded those selected Minimum age. 18
For College Freshmen. Sophomores & Juniors 
Live auditions will be held at the following locations:
Jon. 17,11lOO AJM. - 3t*0 PM. A 4M PM.  MO PM.
ONIO ST AT IUMIVIHITY Room 100 A 10Columbw. Ohio
Please prepare a 3-5 minute performance selection. 
BRING YOUR MUSIC and your own instruments.AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
law schools on file; information on the 
Law School Aptitude Test (LSAT); and 
student internships available in Washing
ton, D.C.
As part of its membership drive, the 
Law Club is holding its opening meeting of 
the semester tomorrow night, Skibo Room 
12, at 7:00 PM.
Engineering fields described
by Robert H. Nelson
It is important that a student in engi
neering, as any job candidate, knows what 
he or she wants to do. Employers guage an 
individuals motivation and maturity by 
the direction shown in the resume objec
tive and job interview.
To be an impressive candidate, one must 
know what is available, what is realistic at 
the entry level, and what these engineering 
activities are called.
The following functional activities in 
engineering with definitions are provided 
to help you maximize your job search 
efforts.
Research Engineering: Develop and apply 
scientific and engineering principles, which 
will result in innovative products or pro
cesses.
Development Engineering: Demonstrate
technical and economic feasibility of new 
concepts, processes, products and appli
cations.
Design Engineering: Evaluate available
data, do necessary planning and calcula
ting, specify major equipment and prepare 
models and sketches for construction. 
Project Engineering: Investigate, evaluate, 
design, and coordinate improvement pro
jects on a plant site. Ranges from equip
ment and facilities modification to coordination of design and construction of 
major plant expansion. Not typically an 
entry level position.
Process or Manufacturing Engineering:
Provide technical assistance to production 
area in order to meet production schedules,. 
improve product quality, increase produc
tivity, reduce costs of the manufacturing 
process. Short range problems.
Plant Engineering: Provide technical assis
tance to maintenance for modifications of 
existing equipment and improvement of 
manufacturing operations and facilities. 
Production or Maintenance Supervision: 
Organize and supervise the activities of 
production or maintenance personnel. Gen
erally involves shift work.
Sale (Technical): Sales of the Companys 
products which require a capacity to un
derstand and solve related technical prob
lems.
Technical Service: Act as a liaison between 
the customer and the Company. Define 
and solve customers problems, assist cus
tomers in using Company products.
Field Engineering: Supervise the construc
tion and installation of apparatus in a 
customers facility. Includes the start up, 
operational check out, instruction to oper
ating personnel, and troubleshooting faults 
in the equipment.
^jjimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii(iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim
5 s COLLEGE JUNIORSCOLLEGE SENIORS I
?'S
? =
? E
? =
? 
? 
? I
NUCLEAR PROPULSION
The leading operator of Nuclear Reactors is currently seeking college juniors and 
seniors to serve as NUCLEAR PROPULSION OFFICERS both on Nuclear Surface vessels and 
Nuclear Submarines upon graduation. Interested candidates should be in pursuit of a Bac
calaureate Degree with an engineering, pure science, or math major and have demon 
strated ability in math and physics courses. A minimum of one year of college physics and 
math through integral calculus with a "B" average or better in technical courses is required. 
Successful candidates will be paid up to $7,800 during their senior year of college and upon 
graduation and commissioning receive a year of graduate level Nuclear training. Upon com
pletion of this training you will be challenged by the entire spectrum of management and 
engineering responsibility as a functioning Nuclear Engineer. Select applicants interested in 
teaching may be eligible for four year instructor positions at Nuclear Propulsion School in 
Orlando, Florida. Subjects taught may include mathematics, physics, electrical engineering, 
heat transfer and fluid flow materials, chemistry, radiological controls and reactor plant 
engineering. A complete benefits package, personal growth and development and a star
ting salary of $16,000 including bonus, for the first accompany these positions. Salary after 
four years will approach $26,000.
If you have an interest in exploring any of the above programs, please call or write: LT. 
Jack REEVES, Federal Building, 1000 Liberty Ave., Suite 711, Pittsbugh, Pa. 1 5222. PHONE: 
TOLL FREE (PA) 800-242-3736 or (WV,OH,&MD) 800-245-1771/2.
? =
? 5
iiiDiiimiiHiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiHiiiiiiiaiiiiHiiiiiiDiiHHmiiiaiiiiiiNiiioiiiiimiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiia;
CAMPUS VISIT DATE JANUARY 19, 1978 
SIGN UP FOR INTERVIEWS IN PLACEMENT OFFICE
illllllllllllllllllllHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilliii^
DID 0U
ftMEM^
TO ZklNG 
You A KOVAK 
TO ALL 
THOSE AtGUJ 
Afl '5 CVE
YouAKOVT
C ou Ktoou
... A VO "& YOU A.A.E 
UJtTH A1 fi.S. SPSfflA), MI TpUKtoJ), 
6/M/WA1, "RBXt)THm VOG,
-We TechIn trviw1X J,AutX 
TTS THAT
t1At dos2:Ie0
SO Dl2>Aj'r
urn OA giman

---------------------------------------------------

LN I LRIAINMERT
(ones succeeds in portfolio
A record review 
Album: Portfolio 
Artist: Grace Jones
by David C. Lucas
Albers was a colorist
She sneers, snarls, snickers and licks at 
the air from the cover of her Portfolio 
album, a piece of jacket art whose color 
combinations would send Josef Albers into 
conniptions. In a bikini, a stewardess cap 
and shades, her torso advertises Italian 
haute coutoure. Illustrator Jean-Paul 
Goude turned her nearly-naked body into 
an Art Deco figurine for a New York Maga
zine interview. She is a rare sample of 
bronzed refuse in Christopher Makos 
White Trash, a photo-essay on punk rock. 
She is the viciously beautiful darling of the 
Manhattan disco scene. Her name is Grace 
Jones.
She needs a man
She doesnt croon, warble, chant, lilt or 
chime. Grace Jones tramples. Her voice
Scotch 'n'Sodarevivemusical
by Matt Sweirgart
Scotch nSoda is now in production for 
Woodwind, the 1978 spring musical. This 
show is a revival of a 1973 Scotch nSoda 
production, based on the popular legend 
of Robin Hood. Performance dates have 
been set for April 6, 7, 8,13,14 and 15, to 
take place in the Skibo Ballroom. Curtain 
times and ticket prices have not yet been 
set and will be published at a later date.
Auditions for the show will be held on 
Saturday, January 21, in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo. They will begin at 12 Noon 
and anyone interested in acting, singing, 
or dancing should be present at that time. 
Dress comfortably and bring a prepared 
solo with sheet music; an accompaniest 
will be provided. No other preparations are 
necessary.
Many people are still needed for back 
stage work. Anyone interested in set con
struction, lights, costume, make-up, 
orchestra or business should drop a note in 
campus mail to: Scotch nSoda, Skibo 100. 
Include name, address, campus phone and 
area of interest.
A crew call for set construction will be 
held in the near future. The exact date, 
time and place will be published in next 
weeks Tartan.
A musical production does take a lot 
of work, wed be the last to deny it, but 
the work is satisfying and can be fun. As 
the saying goes: The more the merrier! 
We have a good show, boasting a musical 
score of 19 numbers with some challenging 
vocal leads. A competent production staff 
has been selected and we want to see the 
show succeed, however, we need personnel 
in order to take what looks good on paper 
and make it look good on stage. If you are 
at all interested, regardless of experience, 
please sign up.
Matt Sweirgart is a member of the Scotch 
nSoda Committee.
most closely resembles that of Bela Lugosi. 
There are still shades of an accent which 
suggest her origins in The Islands. And 
when she moans I need a man, perhaps a 
man like you, in her disco monster-hit, 
you dont doubt her word for a second.
TSOP
Miss Jones one and only album is Port
folio. Although the tunes are getting no air
play, the album has already achieved semi
classic status in the underground disco 
scene. Recorded at Sigma Studios in Philly, 
Portfolio displays the galloping beat, dowop background vocals, dense orchestra
tion and general explosiveness of The 
Sound of Philadelphia. It is closely related 
to Gloria Gaynors immortal debut album.
Side two
The most outstanding of the seven tunes 
on Portfolio is I Need A Man. The beat is 
relentless; the orchestration, overwhelming. 
The melody has undertones of menace. 
And Miss Jones tramples through it all with 
a nymphomaniacal insistence. The song 
ends abruptly in the middle of yelling 
you.
Equally appealing is the soft disco re
make of La Vie En Rose, the quintessential 
*Beautiful-Music-for-A-Man-and-A-WomanStation song. Arranger Duke Williams be
gins the number with simple percussion 
and acoustic guitar, gradually piling on 
bass, concert piano, vibes, strings and elec
tric piano. Miss Jones shifts into low gear 
md uses passable French to give Edith 
Piafs song the sophistication it deserves.
Sorry and Thats the Trouble were 
written by Grace Jones and P. Papadiamondis. Both are first-rate dance numbers, en
hanced by Tom Moultons delicious mix 
and Graces unusual lyrics. The subject of 
the former is the romantic triangle. The 
ladys obtuse little monologues are its highpoints. Twangy guitars and tweety flutes 
add tang to Thats the Trouble, in which 
the beauteous songstress expounds upon 
the danger of moonlit strolls.
Sondheim might retch
A medley of recent Broadway tunes 
covers Side One of Portfolio. While tram
pling is the factor which makes Side Two 
the dreamy item it is, this vocal treatment 
stomps the life out of these three songs. 
The irony of Send In the Gowns (from A 
Little Night Music,) is lost, as is the emo
tion of What I Did For Love (A ChorusLine). Miss Jones handling of Tomorrow 
(from Annie,) is inappropriate, to the 
point of being laughable. Fortunately, no 
disco-goer ever asked that the vocals relate 
to the lyrics, so long as the music was conJusive to dancing, which this Broadway 
medley is.
Was this review favorable?
For the most part, Grace Jones first 
album is an amazing success. Although her 
deep, strong voice limits the nature of her 
material, the violations she makes are for
givable. As a performer, she has the charis
ma, the voice and the looks to go far. What 
she needs is a band and a solid act. As it 
stands, neither her album nor her perform
ance should be missed.
Trudeau's Doonesbury
A book review 
Author: G.B. Irudeau 
Book: As the Kid Goes For Broke
by Joan Livitski
Whether you slept through the 76 elec
tion, were too engrossed in academics or 
were too apathetic to care, you can catch 
up on all you missed in As The Kid Goes 
For Broke, a new Doonesbury book by G. 
B. Trudeau. The Doonesbury characters 
are far more amusing than the most enter
taining television newsteam, takes less time 
to get through than the daily newspaper, 
and costs less than a subscription to Time 
or Newsweek.
Mr. Trudeaus comics each stand on 
their own as a humorous look at one of 
lifes truisms, and yet the way they are 
collected and presented tells a whole story 
about the early 70s. The style is so 
fluid and quick moving that one thinks 
nothing of the rapid switch of topics. Not
only is the authors work of value purely 
on a humorous and entertaining vein, it 
carries very significant social statements.
Where news writers often get heavy 
handed in their social commentaries, Mr. 
Trudeau makes his readers think under the 
most enjoyable circumstances. The only 
pain one might experience is in laughing 
too hard.
As The Kid Goes For Broke covers such 
topics as: Investigative reporting, civil
rights, womens strive for representation, 
sexual liberation, affairs in China, illegal 
use of funds by congressmen, the televi
sion media and the music industry among 
others. Each issue, though using truth as 
a spring board, takes a slanted view on the 
subject. This enables us to see the blunderings and idiocrasies of people and topics 
that most people are too conservative to 
look at other than in a serious fashion.
Whether its just for entertainment and 
a good laugh or for extracting the deeper 
social commentary, G.B. Trudeaus book, 
4s The Kid Goes For Broke, is a must for 
everyones reading list. It is now available 
at the CMU bookstore.
David C. Lucas attended a concert given by 
Grace Jones at 2001 in Pittsburgh. The fol
lowing is an acwunLnt that evenP.
It is around 3.00 ana a few hundred ot 
Pittsburghs fun guys and gals are awaiting 
the entrance of Grace Jones at the 2001 
discotheque. Bouncers and authentic Pitts
burgh Police clear a path from the dressing 
room to the stage. The deejay announces 
that Miss Jones backup will be pre-re
corded but that her singing will be quite 
live. (That explains the absence of a band). 
The spotlights pan to catch two black
shapes on a motorcycle which roars up a 
ramp and promptly topples over. A hooded 
figure rises out of the scuffle and the music 
begins. Two scantily-clad male bodies 
scamper in from the wings and remove the 
hooded cape, revealing Grace Jones in 
shiny thigh-high boots and a mini-kimono. 
Her lips, eyelids, magnificent cheekbones 
and threadbare pate are sprinkled with 
gold dust. She launches into Thats the 
Trouble.
Unlike many artists, who depend on the 
recording studio, Grace can actually sing. 
She tramples through the tune, doing 
gyrations that could make any Liberty 
Ave. dancer turn in her pasties. The aud
ience loves it. Dry ice fog comes in as the 
song fades out. When the fog dissipates, 
Grace is wearing sequined scanties and a 
gold top that must have been gum-spirited 
to her breats to prevent exposure. The 
computerized beats of La Vie En Rose be
gin. Sorry follows La Vie. The bodies scam
per in with bunches of balloons in their 
mitts and clown make-up on their mugs for 
Send In the Gowns, which Grace does 
without straying from the bump, grind and 
trample formula. During What I Did for 
Love and Tomorrow, she goes out into the 
audience, greeting her frenzied fans. At the 
end of the Broadway Medley she dis
appears.
Theres no question as to what her 
encore will be. Theres only one song left 
on the album; I Need A Man. She returns 
from the dressing room in a white toga, 
accompanied by the bodies, who are 
wearing leather chokers, wristbands and 
jocks. As she belts out her hit song, she 
whips off their leather accessories and 
fumbles with their little leather athletic 
supporters. While whirling around on stage, 
Miss Jones tunic flops down, revealing her 
bare chest. The emphatic applause earns 
the audience another glimpse.
For the encore of her encore, she re
turns with a bullwhip, snapping it in the air 
and drawing boys up from the audience to 
join her in wild disco abandon. And you 
thought this type of thing didnt happen in 
Pittsburgh!

---------------------------------------------------

page 10TARTANJanuary 17, 1978
Subtle Suggestions for Cultural
Marcel Marceau returns to Pittsburgh
Acknowledged as the worlds greatest 
living exponent of the Art of Mime, Marcel 
Marceau will arrive here at Heinz Hall for 
one performance on January 22 at 7:30 
PM.
Along with a versatile program, this 
celebrated Frenchman presents Bip, the 
famous character symbolizing mans foibles 
and fancies. In 1947, Marceau created Bip 
the clown who, in his striped pullover and 
battered beflowered opera hat, has become 
his alter-ego like Chaplins Little Tramp be
came that stars personality. Bip, whether a 
lion-tamer, professor of botany, skater or 
guest at a party, is the silent witness of the 
lives of all men.
Bip was introduced to the American 
public on Marceaus first tour here. The 
American public is now able to bring Bip
into their homes with the highly acclaimed 
Marcel Marceau Alphabet, Marcel Marceau 
Counting Book and The Story of Bip, 
written and illustrated by Marceau.
Accompanying Marceau on almost every 
world tour is his presentor of cards, Pierre 
Verry. During several years, however, 
Verry has remained in Paris heading Mar
ceaus international School of Mime, but 
American audiences will once again see this 
delightful artist during Marceaus current 
tour.
Tickets to see the worlds greatest living 
pantomimist are $9, $8 and $7 on sale at 
Heinz Hall, Homes, Sears, Gimbels and 
Kaufmanns.
This article was prepared with the assis
tance of the Heinz Hall promotion depart
ment.
"Old Times" at CMU
The Carnegie-Mellon University Drama 
[Department will inaugurate a new series 
|of plays in the Studio Theatre this month 
nth a production of Harold Pinters
Old Times.
This new Studio series is designed to 
Icombine the talents of the Departments 
[most promising students with the expelrience of its professional faculty. The 
(productions will be fully rehearsed and 
fully mounted, but will feature plays 
with small casts and limited technical 
I demands.
Faculty members James L. Rosenberg 
and William Matthews and students Greglory Lehane, Gela Jacobson and Cherry 
I Jones will collaborate on the production 
I of Old Times.
Written in Pinters customary terse, 
allusive, often bitterly witty style, it deals 
I with three people: a man, his wife, and a
friend of the wifes who returns for a visit 
after twenty years. In th course of the 
relatively brief evening in the theatre, the 
three spin a complex web of memories-- 
some true, some false, maybe all true--and 
explore the subtle interrelationships that 
have been established over the years.
The production of Old Times will initi
ate the first public performances in the 
smaller, more intimate Studio Theatre, lo
cated directly behind the Fine Arts Build
ing. The show will run nightly from Mon
day, January 23 through Saturday, Janu
ary 28 at 8:20 PM, with a matinee on 
Saturday, January 28 at 2:00 PM. Tick
et prices are $2.50 per person, $1.50 per 
student with valid ID. For further infor
mation, call the CMU Box Office at 578- 
2407, Monday through Friday between 
the hours of 10 AM and 5 PM.
This article was prepared with the assis
tance of the CMU Department of Drama.
Cooper's drawings
An exhibition of drawings by Pittsburgh 
artist William Douglas Cooper will open 
January 13, 1978 in the Entrance Gallery 
of the Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute. 
Fifteen charcoal drawings of architectural 
and landscape subjects comprise the exhib
ition.
Douglas Cooper received his B.A. degree 
I in architecture in 1970 from Camegie| Mellon University where he also received 
(ravelling scholarships in 1969 and 1970.
I Since 1976 he has been an instructor of 
drawing in CMUs Department of Archi| tecture.
Cooper acquired extensive professional 
[experience in industrial architectural reIsearch and development, while in Germany
between 1971 and 1976, and also illus
trated two technical exhibits. He has had 
one-man shows at the Galleria der Spiegel 
in Cologne, West Germany, and at the 
Hewlett Gallery at Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity.
The drawings will be on view through 
March 12, Tuesday through Saturday from 
10:00 AM to 5:00 PM and Sunday from 
1:00 PM until 6:00 PM. The exhibition has 
been made possible in part by a matching 
grant from the Pennsylvania Council on the 
Arts. Carnegie Institute is closed on Mon
days.
This article was prepared with the assis
tance of the Carnegie Institute, Scaife 
Gallery.______________________________
Ophuls with new films
Marcel Ophuls is the worlds foremost 
documentary filmmaker. He wrote and dir
ected the internationally acclaimed The 
Sorrow and the Pity, and A Sense of Loss.
He is now giving film/lecture presenta
tions in conjunction with his recently re
leased film, The Memory of Justice, about 
which Frank Rich of the New York Post 
has written: If a more important docu
mentary than Memory of Justice has been 
made during my lifetime, I da not know 
what it is.
Ophuls documentaries are unlike any 
others. Vincent Canby of the New York 
Times noted this in saying that The. 
Memory of Justice expands the possibilities 
of the documentary motion picture in such 
a way that all future films of this sort will 
be compared to it. Ophuls particular gen
ius is that he does not passively record 
what he knows already. He uses material 
from an incredible variety of sources-news 
reels, archive footage, interviews, scrap
book photos-and weaves it together so 
personally and intensely that Frank Rich 
declared it has all the urgency, drama, 
compassion, mystery and esthetic,ripeness 
that we expect from the best fiction 
films.
Ophuls has developed a broad and fas
cinating perspective on the United States 
he has lived and worked here for extended 
periods of time, as well as in France and 
Germany. He has recently been a Visiting 
Fellow in Humanities at Princeton Uni
versity.
This is a unique opportunity to attend 
an appearance by a major director as well 
as view his two most important document 
ary films; A Sense of Loss and Memory oj 
Justice, none of which has enjoyed a majoi 
public screening in Pittsburgh.
A Sense of Loss will be presented on 
Wednesday, January 18 in the Lecture Hall 
at Carnegie Institute at 7:30 PM. Admis
sion is $2 .00. Memory of Justice will be 
presented on Wednesday, January 27 in the 
Lecture Hall at Carnegie Institute at 7:30 
PM. Admission is $2.00.
On Thursday, January '26, Marcus 
Ophuls will be present to discuss his films 
and the material upon which they were 
based. This event will take place in the Lec
ture Hall in Carnegie Institute at 8:00 PM 
Admission is free.
For further information call the Film 
Section at 622-3212.
This article was prepared with the assis 
tance of the Carnegie Institute, Film Sec
Hon.Design students hold show
Scale models of furniture created by 
liesign students at Carnegie-Mellon UniversJty will be on display January 16 through 
[January 20 in the new design department 
gallery on the CMU campus.
The models in glass, plastic, and wood 
[include dining room and occasional tables', 
[modular tables for multiple uses in small 
[apartments, childrens tables, drafting and 
[writing tables, and conference tables.
The exhibit is the result of a semesterlong project in which students were asked 
to design tables for hypothetical clients, 
taking into consideration such factors as 
materials, manufacturing costs, and mark
eting of the final product. Associate Pro
fessor Alessandro DeGregori, faculty ad
visor for the project, was previously new 
products director for Knoll International, 
Inc., where his responsibilities included 
coordinating the development of furniture 
and office systems. Explaining the purpose 
of the project, DeGregori says, Tables
present a challenging design problem be
cause of their strong symbolic connotation. 
The word table elicits at least one defin
ite visual image in the mind of everyone. 
For some people a table is a domestic sta
tus symbol, for others it evokes childhood 
memories, perhaps of family celebrations 
at the table where they first started eating 
among grownups.
The projects were evaluated by a re
view panel composed of Jack Halbeisen, 
director of reasearch, Booz, Allen & Hamil
ton, Cleveland; James Mauri, president of 
Tech Interiors, New York; Joseph Ballay, 
head of CMUs design department; and 
DeGregori.
The exhibit is free and open to the pub
lic. The design department galley, located 
on the third floor of Baker Hall, is open 
Monday through Friday from 9 AM to 
4:30 PM.
This article was prepared with the assis
tance of the CMU department of Design.

---------------------------------------------------

January 17, 1978TARTANpage 11
Survival in Pittsburgh
Wilder's the great lover
Twentieth Century-Foxs The Worlds 
Greatest Lover,  a comedy starring Gene 
Wilder, is playing at the Kings Courl 
Theater. Carol Kane and Dom DeLuise 
also star in the film which Wilder directed 
from his own screenplay.
The film tells the story of a neurotic 
baker in 1926 who follows his compulsive 
dreams of fame and romance to Hollywood 
during a talent search for a rival to the 
great Valentino. There he is surprisingly re
united with the naive wife who left him to 
pursue her own secret romantic fantasies.
It is a demanding task for a director to 
handle sequences such as that in which his 
leading man is being frosted and boxed like 
a cake on a bakers conveyor belt. It is par
ticularly difficult when the director and 
the leading man are one and the same per
son.
To help Wilder-the-director see what 
Wilder-the-actor accomplished, an instant 
video tape replay system was used during 
the filming. Wilder would set up the scene, 
jump into it and act, then hurry to a dark
ened tent and look at the video tape mon
itor to see how the scene turned out.
This article was prepared with the assistance of the Cinemette Corporation. _____
Brooks goes 
Hitchcock
Mel Brooks is once again producing 
comedies. High Anxiety, a Brooks-eye 
view of the thrill-packed world of suspense 
hitherto associated with Alfred Hitchcock, 
will open at Cinemette Theatres later this 
month.
The phrase, a film by Mel Brooks, is 
an all-encompassing way of saying that, in 
addition to starring in it, along with Made
line Kahn, Cloris Leachman and Harvey 
Korman, Brooks produced and directed 
High Anxiety which he co-authored with 
Ron Clark, Rudy DeLuca and Barry Lev 
inson. Not only that, but he composed 
(music and lyrics) the title song which he 
sings in the film.
High Anxiety m^ks Brooks third film 
for 20th Century-Fox, following Young 
Frankenstein and Silent Movie/ both 
huge box-office and critical successes
High Anxiety is a tribute to the gen 
ius of Hitchcock, says Brooks. Anyone 
whos rolled a foot of film owes some
thing to this man.
This article was prepared with the assis
tance of the Cinemette Corporation.
PLT's "Mother Courage"
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre wil! 
present Bertolt Brecht's Mother Courage, 
Fridays through Sundays, January 20 to 
February 26 at 8:30 PM.
Mother Courage is considered one of 
the true classics of modern drama. A 
passionate, as well as humorous, anti-war 
statement, the drama's greatest achieve
ment is the creation of the character, 
Anna Fierling, nicknamed "Mother Cour
age." An itinerant trader, Mother Courage 
drags her family and her wares across the 
battlefields of Europe, living by her wits 
and asserting her right to survive.
This production will premiere a new 
translation from the German by Bill 
Royston. Royston, who began working 
on this project in 1969, explains that his 
translation of Mother Courage differs 
from earlier renderings in that it was con
ceived for performance and not solely for 
literary value. Royston will also direct 
the Lab Theatre production.
The play will be staged in what Bill 
Royston terms "a totally non-illusionistic 
environment with even greater emphasis on 
an intimate audience relationship than 
most Lab Theatre Productions. 1
Therefore, seating will be very limited, 
and advance reservations should be made 
by calling 621-2876.
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre is 
located at 3300 Fifth Avenue (corner of 
Fifth and Craft), Oakland.
This production is supported by grants 
from the A.W. Mellon Educational and 
Charitable Trust and the Pennsylvania 
Council on the Arts.
This article was prepared with the assis 
lance of the Pittsburgh Lab Theatre.
PBT: bill of three
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will present 
the Pittsburgh premiere of The Merry 
Widow and Prodigal Son on January 
27-29 at Heinz Hall. These two distinc
tive ballets will be performed on the same 
program with Pas de Quatre, ballets great
est dance exhibition of the 19th century.
Peter Dagnan will dance the title role on 
January 27 with Woytek Lowski, Guest 
Artist in Residence and Principal Dancer 
from the Boston Ballet, dancing the role on 
alternate performances. Charlene Gehm, a 
soloist from the New York based Joffrey 
Ballet, will dance the seductive role of the 
Siren. Ms. Gehm is married to PBT Princi
pal Dancer Dennis Poole. Frederic Franklin 
has staged Prodigal Son for the PBT.
The first performance of Pas de Quatre 
on July 12, 1845, was a command perfor
mance for Queen Victoria. It was choreo
graphed by Jules Perrot to the music of 
Cesar Pugni for the four greatest ballerinas 
of the romantic age: Marie Taglioni, Carlotta Grisi, Fanny Cerrito, and Lucile 
Grahn. It was a tremendous success with 
each of the dances highlighting the special 
talents of each ballerina.
The Merry Widowt one of the worlds 
most popular operettas, was made into a 
ballet by choreographer Ruth Page in 
1953 for the London Festival Ballet. The 
ballet is set to Franz Lehars familiar lyrical 
waltz music.
Ruth Page, whose colorful biography 
was just published and whose works, 
Frankie and Johnny and Carmen, have de
lighted Pittsburgh audiences in the past 
will be here to oversee the staging of her 
most popular ballet. The Merry Widow has 
successfully toured all over the world.
It is a charming story set in the bank
rupt country of Marsovia. The reigning 
monarch, Prince Danilo, is forced to woo 
the wealthy widow, Sonia, to save his king
dom. In the course of events, the Prince 
actually falls in love with the beautiful 
widow and saves the kingdom.
PBT Principal Dancers Jo Ann 
McCarthy and Dennis Poole will dance the 
leading roles of Sonia and Prince Danilo 
respectively. Principal Character Dancer 
Gemot Petzold will perform the comic role 
of Baron Popoff.
Prodigal Son, one of George Balan
chines greatest masterpieces, was choreo
graphed in 1929 for Diaghilevs Ballet 
Russes in Paris, France. It is in the reper
tory of many major ballet companies, and 
the role of the Prodigal Son has long been 
associated with one of the greatest male 
dancers of the United States, Edward 
Villella. It is a favorite ballet for the male 
dancer because of Balanchines strong, bold 
athletic choreography.
Its theme focuses of the biblical parable 
of the Prodigal Son who leaves his home 
and is enticed by a sensual Siren to forget 
his fathers principles. Robbed and desti 
tute following his flight, the son returns to 
his fathers home and is forgiven.
This article was prepared with the assis
tance of the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre.____
Fair seeks Artists
The Three Rivers Arts Festival will 
eturn as a regional show this year, from 
vlay 26 through June 4 in Gateway Center, 
Downtown.
Artists 18 and over from Western Pennylvania and surrounding areas are invited 
:o enter paintings, prints, drawings, sculp
ture, crafts and photographs in the 19th 
annual Festival. All entries will be juried 
by slide.
Among this years changes will be the 
makeup of the jury. For the first time in 
many years, there will be a panel of jurors, 
all prominent local artists. They are: Sally 
Anderson, textile art; Thaddeus G. Mosley, 
sculpture; Herbert T. Olds, Jr., drawing; 
Larissa Geiss Osby, painting; H. Douglas 
Pickering, painting and three-dimensional 
work; Frank Ross, pottery and sculpture, 
and Leonard Schugar, photography.
Jurors have been invited to show their 
works in an innovative Jurors Exhibit.
The Festival will feature major visual 
arts exhibits on both sides of Gateway Cen
ter. The Juried Visual Arts Show will con
tinue for the entire ten days. Artists will be 
in attendance at the Artists Market, which 
will consist of two separate five-day shows.
from May 26-30 and May 31-June 6. Sales 
will be made on the spot. As items are sold 
they will be replaced by other works by 
the artistin effect, two frequently-chang
ing Artists Market Shows.
Cash awards totalling $3,000 will be 
made at the discretion of the jurors for 
work in the Juried Visual Arts Show. Pur
chase awards will be made by Pittsburgh 
corporations for work in both the Artists 
Market and the Juried Visual Arts Show.
Entry forms with full details and rules 
are available from the Three Rivers Arts 
Festival, 4400 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15213. Return address and 24 cents in 
stamps should be included with entry form 
requests. Completed forms with slides must 
be postmarked no later than March 31. 
1978.
Besides the visual arts exhibits, the 1978 show will include a Court of Banners)
created by area high school students; art
ists demonstrations; sky-works; work
shops; childrens events and continuing per
formances in music, dance and theater.
This article was prepared with the assisance of the Three Rivers Arts Festival
Committee.

---------------------------------------------------

identify yourself, with a haircut!
Every individual is unique. Special. One-of-a-kind. That s the 
way haircuts should be, too. Specially tailored to match you 
your face, your personality, your vision of yourself. Great X 
customers always know they're getting the best 
hairstyling value for their money. That's 
because hairstyling is our only business. 
That's all w6 do! Great "X" ... mort 
than 50 salons across the country,
I ready to help you identify yourself.
IG&CffTCHPCC3TIQIIS,PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
NO APPOINTMENTEVER
HAIRCUTS COLORINGS PERMANENTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
237 ATW00D STREET or on 10 PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 S
687-3500
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 10-9 
NO APPOINTMENTS
Contact your 
placement office 
for information an equal PPortun,,y employer, m/fSCOTT
Who are you, telling us how to run our business?
It takes a lot of confidence to come 
fresh out of school and begin telling us 
how to do things
We constantly search for people 
who have the ability to respond to chal
lenge and think for themselves, those 
with the initiative and desire to seek al
ternatives, the skill and courage to con
vince others that there are better ways 
and who aren't afraid to express their 
ideas.
At Scott, we admire an aggressive 
stance because we are an aggressive 
company You can make your own op
portunities with us.. and we'll prove it.
AB LECTURES PRESENTS
SUBLIMINAL SEDUCTION
WITH SPEAKER
WILSON BRIAN KEY
MEDIA MANIPULATION
OF A NOT SO INNOCENT 
AMERICA
TUESDAY, JAN. 24 8:00 PM 
SKIBO BALLROOM
FREE
*
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,
^ ~ r ~ r Trrrrq ~ qrioe>qiQ n nirl<MOac><i#OiiiW30N!Ml!C<MW|<NN>OOOClOCN
On the other hand, it takes an un
usual company to provide the kind of 
environment where that can happen, but 
that is exactly the environment you'll find 
at Scott Paper.

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
MUSIC
The 415 Players will present a recital of 
baroque chamber music on copies of 
historical instruments tonight, Tuesday, 
January 17, at 8:30 PM. The group con
sists of Larry Kiefer, baroque oboe and 
recorder; Patricia Griffin, mezzo-soprano; 
Thomas Frankenberg, viola da gamba; 
and Richard Stern, harpsichord; most of 
whom are alumni or faculty of CMU. The 
recital, featuring works by Bach and 
Telemann, will be at the University of 
Pittsburghs Frick Auditorium in Oakland, 
admission free.
Initiating the 1978 portion of Heinz Halls 
annual Calvalcade of Great Bands will be 
the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra with special 
guest vocalist Helen OConnell on Friday, 
January 20 at 8 PM.
Tickets to hear Helen O'Connell and 
this great all-round dance band are $8.50, 
$7.50 and $6.50 on sale at Heinz Hall, 
Hornes, Sears, Gimbels and Kaufmanns.
The Pittsburgh Opera will present "La 
Boheme on Thursday, January 19 and 
Saturday, January 21 at Heinz Hall for the 
Performing Arts. Both performances begin 
at 8 PM.
Performances of the Pittsburgh . Opera 
are supported by grants from the Nation
al Endowment for the Arts in Washington, 
D.C., a federal agency and the Common
wealth of Pennsylvania Council on the 
Arts. Reserve your tickets by calling the 
opera office at 281-0912.
Tashi, one of the most exciting young 
chamber music ensembles, makes its first 
appearance in Pittsburgh on Monday, 
January 23, at 8:30 PM in Carnegie Music 
Hall, presented by the Pittsburgh Chamber 
Music Society. Tickets are available at all 
Kaufmanns, The Pitt Student Union, and 
by phone to 624-4129.
A Chamber Music Recital WiJl be presented 
at Chatham College on Sunday, January 
29 at 5 PM in the Welker Room. Works 
by Bach, G. Schuller and D. Amran will 
be featured.
On January 13, Stefano Robotti, acoustic 
guitarist and keyboard artist, will present 
an unusual multi-media experience at The 
Alternative. Vaun Micheaux, a dynamic 
young vocalist, will perform contemporary 
and original music, on January 20.
The Alternative is located in the Luth
eran University Center, 4515 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland, across from Scaife Art Museum.
THEATRE
Members of the Medicine Show Theatre 
Ensemble will present a Public Workshop 
on Sunday, January 22, at the Lion Walk, 
420 N. Craig in Oakland, from 1:30 tc
4 PM. The event is co-sponsored by the 
Pennsylvania Repertory Theatre and the 
99 cent Floating Theatre Festival and 
admission is $5.
The Duquesne University Red Masquers 
will present Bob Randalls two-act comedy, 
6 Rms Riv Vu, January 17 to 21 at 8 PM in 
the Duquesne Union Ballroom.
Tickets are available at the Duquesne 
Union Information Center, or can be 
purchased at the door. Admission is $1 
with University ID, or $2 for the general 
public.
Camelot Productions will open the Lerner 
and Loewe musical Camelot on Friday, 
January 20 at the Plaza Theatre, Bloom
field.
Performances will be held at 8:30 PM 
Fridays and Saturdays and 7:30 PM 
Sundays, January 20 through February 12 
at the Plaza Theatre, 4765 Liberty Avenue 
(next to West Penn Hospital). Ticket 
information and reservations may be ob
tained by calling Camelot Productions 
at 683-7770.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center 
announces that the Point Park College 
Theatre Companys next production, 
scheduled to open January 27, will be the 
second production of the season in the 
newly opened Theatre Downstairs. John 
Guares farce comedy, "The House of Blue 
Leaves, will replace The Robber Bride
groom, originally scheduled, but unavail
able for production
ART
An exhibition of European drawings will 
open January 20 in Gallery D at the 
Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute. The 
exhibition will continue through March 26.
Gallery hours are from 10 AM until 
6 PM Tuesday through Saturday, 1 PM to
6 PM on Sunday. The Museum is closed on 
Mondays.
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute has 
released the titles of the four Paintings of 
the Week to be discussed in January. 
Paintings of the Week talks are offered 
Tuesday through Friday at 12 Noon.
In addition free gallery tours are pre
sented Tuesday through Friday at 11 AM 
1:30 PM and 2:30 PM and Saturday and 
Sunday at 2 PM, 2:30 and 3 PM.
The Hewlett Gallery located in the Fine 
Arts building has opened an exhibition 
of recent drawings by Herbert Olds, art 
department faculty member. The show will 
run until January 20. Gallery hours are 
from 11 to 4 PM, Monday through Friday.
CINEMA
AB will be presenting A Man For All 
Seasons on Thursday, January 19 at 6. 
8:30 and 11 PM. All films are shown in 
Doherty Hall. Admission is .75 with ID
AB will be presenting Silver Streak with 
Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor on Friday, 
January 20 at 6:30, 9 and 11:30 PM. All 
films are shown in Doherty Hall. Admis
sion is $1 with an ID.
SDC will be presenting A Funny Thing 
Happened on the Way to the Forum on 
Saturday, January 21 at 6, 8:30 and 11 PM. 
All films are shown in Doherty Hall. 
Admission is free.
MISC.
AB Coffeehouse Committee presents 
Michael Jerling - a New York singer accom
plished in folk, country, ragtime, and jazz 
on Friday, January 20. Also appearing will 
be CMUs own Greg Tarsa. The coffee
house will begin at 9:30 PM in Skibo 
Wherrett Room. Admission is free and the 
entire CMU community is invited.
The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy and the 
Marylloyd Claytor Dance Company will be 
hosted at the University of Pittsburgh 
Dance Ensembles fifth joint studio con
cert on Friday, January 27 at 8 PM in the 
Trees Hall Dance Studio, Alliquippa and 
Darraugh Streets. A $1 donation will be 
requested at the door. For information, 
contact Margaret Skrinar in the University 
of Pittsburghs Physical Education De
partment-624-4396.
I I admire ~ God becauseGod smarts greatest invention.
Spend 90 minutes with the longshoreman/philosopher.Eric HofferHie Crowded lifeProduced by Wpbt, Miami, Fla.
Tune in Tues* January i7th,Time 9:00 P.M.
WQED 13
PUBLICBROADCASTINGSERVICE
lo*
our
MAH. A
Voluti*
V
/r.
Hi**
TO YOHB VAL1MTINI 
raOM VAUNTINI
iiend $1.00 wKh each stamped.^ 
addressed Valentine for carefully timed 
re mailing with beautiful personalized 
message from Americas "Heartland. 
Valentines. Trade Winds Lodge-NP3214, 
Valentine. Nebraska69201
* FOLIO'S NEXT THEME IS
 iJ THE HISTORY!
t OF mankind!* i *
* .jSTORIES ARE DUE BY MONDAY MORNING ! !{
JANUARY 23, AND SHOULD BE LEFT AT THE I 
I SKIBO INFORMATION DESK, IN CARE OF THE 
! TARTAN. BECOME A FOLIO WRITER.
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

natnanan
page 14-TARTAN-January 17, 1978
Fencing an elite sport? 
No longer.
by Perry Coloaimo
At first glance, the idea of covering 
a fencing match was, to say the least, 
somewhat uncomfortable to me. This 
attitude probably stemmed from the fact 
that I lacked any knowledge whatsoever 
of even the rudiments of the sport. So it 
was with great caution that I entered the 
women's gymnasium Saturday afternoon 
to witness the CMU fencing team's opening 
match this year, a tri-meet against Alle
gheny College and Cleveland State Univ.
When I entered the gymnasium half an
hour early, the atmosphere surprisingly 
seemed one of looseness and informality, 
something I had not expected since, 
personally, I still considered fencing a 
sport limited by social station (much 
like jjolf, tennis, and squash have been).
I soon learned, however, that the sport of 
fencing is slowly gaining in popularity 
with the masses. Some are attracted by 
the mystique that tradition holds (17th 
century Italy was the birthplace of mod
ern fencing) and some simply by the 
martial arts-like mind-body discipline and
Fencing is becoming an increasingly popular sport at CMU. The picture above depicts action 
from Saturday's tri-meet among CMU, Allegheny, and Cleveland State.
co-ordination fencing develops. Indeed, 
spend a few minutes watching these 
athletes, and you'll agree that fencing is 
a sport only for the gifted. There are 
graceful lunges, quick retreats, and intri
cate patterns of footwork which require 
hours of practice to perform with the 
fluidity and ease necessary to be truly 
effective as a competitor.
The CMU team, under the tutelage of 
Coach Jane Fisk is improving steadily. 
It is comprised of 19 members--9 women 
and 10 men-who participate in approx
imately 10 to 12 matches throughout the 
season including regional and state tour
naments. Coach Jane Fisk says that even 
though they lack experience, the women's 
team is one of the best she's had as far as 
form and potential are concerned. The 
men's team has more experience and boasts 
some solid individual performers such as 
Victor Brennan, John Booz, and Peter 
Bond - to name a few. The men compete 
in three fencing events (foil, saDer, and 
epee), while the women compete in only 
the foil event. Scoring is electronically 
tabulated by means of an electrical charge 
transmitted from the top of the foil 
initiated when contacted with an oppo
nent's metal-laced breast-plate. The charge 
passes through a wire attached to the body 
leading finally to a scoring indicator.
In Saturday's action, CMU topped 
Allegheny but finished second over-all to 
an impressive Cleveland State team, whose 
saberers couldn't be beat.
In addition to supporting its fencing 
team, CMU also serves as the major focal 
point for club fencing in the area and in 
the future CMU is going to be the location 
for an important annual fencing event. 
According to Coach Fisk, a proposal to 
establish a Three Rivers Tournament 
through which the U.S. Olympic team 
members will qualify is currently under 
consideration for next year.
On Guard! It seems as though CMU 
fencing is defmately on the "upswing".
Hoopster holiday 
. not Classic
by Bob Firm
Carnegie-Mellons trip to the third an
nual Keystone Invitational Basketball 
Classic was not a pleasant one because the 
Tartans were defeated in the opening 
round by host Bloomsburg State 80-79 
and in the consolation by Widner 64-47.
Injuries hurt the Tartans for the tourn
ament. Sparkplug Mariano DeFilippo in
jured his ankle in the first game and Mike 
Underhill was sick with mononucleosis.
The Tartans played Bloomsburg tough, 
but missed the experienced ball handling 
of DeFilippo late in the game. CMU also 
missed some key 1-1 situations that could 
have pulled out the victory.
Les Harper played one of the best games 
of his college career. The 6-6 center hit for 
20 of his game high 32 points in the second 
half and yanked down 13 rebounds.
Harper was backed by 16 from George 
Harvey, 14 from Larry Hufnagel, and 10 
in the first half by DeFilippo.
Widner, ranked in the top five of Div
ision III, played an excellent first half to 
build up a comfortable margin. They 
maintained it throughout the game as the 
foul troubled Tartans could not come from 
behind.
Freshman Joe Belechak in his first start
ing assignment came through as the leading 
scorer for CMU. He hit for 14 as a repla
cement for DeFilippo. Harper added 12 
tallies and Hufnagel and Harvey chipped in 
with 10 apiece.
Coach Maloney was not totally dis
appointed, however. He commented, We 
became a better basketball team by playing 
in the tournament. We learned we had to 
go the boards stronger and play tighter 
defense if we expect to beat the strong 
teams such as we faced at Bloomsburg.
How a 19-year-old college sophomore can become a 21-year-old Army officer.
The Army offers college sophomores the 
opportunity to earn an officers commission in 
two years.
Its tough, but the people who can manage it are the people we want to manage the men, 
money and materials of the United States Army.
You apply for the special Two-Year Army ROTC Program during vour sophomore year.
Youll leam what it takes to be a soldier 
to have your body toughened, your confidencedeveloped.
Do wen ana yoi 
ROTC Advanced Course in the fall. Do excepwell and you can qualify for the Army
tionally well, and you may be heading back to 
college, with a two-year full tuition scholarship.
For the next two years ''oull learn what it 
takes to be an Army officer. Youll be challenged 
both mentally and physically. Youll get the kind 
of management and leadership experience that
will be an asset to you in any career, military or 
civilian. Youll receive a yearly living allowance of up to $1,000 each year youre enrolled in 
Advanced ROTC. When you graduate, youll 
have earned your college degree along with the 
gold bars of an officer and serve in the active Army, Army National Guard or the Army Reserve.
The Two-Year Army ROTC Program. If 
thats the kind of challenge youre looking for, youre the kind of student were looking for.
Name__
Address
City___
State.
I CLIP AND MAIL TOBH 
ARMY ROTC 
Comegie-Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
____________________Age
Zip.Phone.
^ ? Freshman ? Sophomore ? Junior ? Senior ^
ARMY ROTC. LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD.

---------------------------------------------------

VOfr OSIXS
*i!a wd oo:s - oo;i
3DN3IN3ANOD SOdWVD33IJJO 13AV2U nWD
^iiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiu
dfz WS
-looqos
--------Alio
stftjppy
6enoo ? looqos MBfH ?
laejsi 01 sujbj6ojc1 jnoA uo uoijewjojui jayynj aw puas
tZ 00S9-IC9 JO LLZL'Z89
CICSl *d **Hd Pl!*!!^ *S SIX
VHDI1HS AJLINflVMWOD 13VUSI - VdOWZ VI1V1V
pueiJS2jiws oucSni pue coijj oiJnj 'ojuojoi s|)!3 SO ! *JjuaD
38l EZZ 000 mi 110111V3 *|UQ 3WS A N apisjno
C6l 3DNIS SiSnlD3dS 
NOI1 VttVd3tfd iSliM31N3D 1HOIlDnQ3
NH-MtI
1AV M31N3D V A3103N 
3SnOH X3SS3 
'199
lies aseaid uoueujjojui CoC
;;;99U9A9jJfp o si 9d*tu>
lauusi
UOOS |0BJS| OJ 8LUO0
laejsi jo 
sjnoj pue (aiqeoiidde aiagM) 
saaj uoijjni pjeoq pue Janna 
urayaa1y duj punoj sapnpui aoud agj.
SLUBj6ojd juajajjip ZZ 8M 
ajagM dAZV g6nojgj a|QB|(BAB ||B s.ii
uoissajojd jnoA ui jaajunpA y 
7y uoiiBdpiuBd pus sauisjaAiun naBJS| ay 
,pnjs 'wizinqq^ pus 7J99na juawdoiaAap ui >jjo8 
jaaiun|OA jajjo suuBJ6ojd giuow aA|a/wj an giuoiu xi$
spafojd aouaos pub aoiAjas zinqqiij 
's6ip |BDi6o|oaBgojB iwUBdin apnpui suuBj6ojd jauituns
6uid|ag '6uiouauadxa '6utujBar jsaA nnj b 01 
jajsaiuas b oj jauuuins b ujojj ajag/wAuB puads ubo no/,
ii
sjnoH V uitjBoJd iqt*|J y
saavoa Lokingo  saavoa "iviNaa kfrao| 3DA *N31 J * 9IM J03 * III II I MAIN f
I 1VS  1VA * 1V00 * 3U9 Iam  ivsi * iva * ivow
:UOd 3UVd3dd
SbiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiimDiiiiiimiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiimiiiiiDiiiimiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiimiiiiDiiii
Vool uaJ7aya puB juids 3UJBS aqj 9A9iqoc qnp
SS990nS B SBM dUJ 9qj UOIJBOIpUI 
XUB SBM XBpjnjBS JSBJ JJ diqSUOldUJBq3 
3Vd 9lP JOJ XugqSgjjv gSuajjBqo Jyn Xgqj
9J9qM OJ 3AOJdun OJ JJOJJ9 UB UI 9JnSB9jd
qjiM ssgmsnq pgxiui dnoiS sq; siusj ui
9uiAn 'SJ3J3ABJ1 3qi 30Bds pod p31U3J 
qDiqM BpliO|J UI 383^00 B 0} 3SUddX3 UMO
Jisqi JE XpSlBl p3J3ABJ} SJ3UIIUTMS UB^JBJ^ 
sqj jo U3j (SJ33UI Xq Xpio psjdnjjsjui 
si pus >|33M sqj jo ;no sXBp xrs psMO^oj 
si 3Uijnoj siqj, s8uiujoui sip ui pspuoid 
jnc>3(iOM Buoi;do jnq JBpuiis jsi^oub 
Xq psjusuisjddns ^i uiims 4t3JnsB3jd 
3fiui g b jo XfjBnsn sjsisuoo qoiqM
m,anJeN9 na nwo ,aayn Buid|8q ui J1ana siq s/Moqs y,aa qog
**9Aip e p Auiojeuy
SJI UI sdO) MOUE3 3J3JDU03 nW3 S35JEUJ 
jBqM ano puij puB pusnv spqs 3qi
Suiavojioj X|3jBip3iuuii jnoH XddBH W 
suoijssnb oyiosds J3A\sue u;m pus urejSojd 
SuiJds 3qj JO S1U3A3 1IBJ3P oj puBq uo 
sq {jim qnQ 3ouB3 sqi |o sJ3qui3p\
Oe:t> I qjor XjBnuB/ 'puj uo OOI IIBH
J3JJOJ UI UOI}EJU3S3Jd SpiJS B pU3J}B OJ UOIJ 
mb5Clbgai 3qi JO 3SBqd Xus UI p3}S3J3JUl 
ssoqi ssSBJnoDus qni3 sjsjouo^ sqx
Xjjunoo sqi
jnoqSnojqi XjiJBindod SuiuibS XjpidBJ si 
qoiqM pods [Bnsnun ub ui uoijiu8od3J [Bool 
8uiuib8 jo uoipbjjjb psppB 3qj qjiM uiB3j 
p35fUBJ-dOJ B 3ABq UIBB [JIA\ \] UOJ33UIJJ 
puB ipujjong suoiJBq^ jb sspojdia
S JB3X JSB| UI S33JOJ SuiAlJp 3J3V )iqM
sqj pjnoqg -uoijusauod [Buoijeu s(J33u 
-iSug |IAI3 JO XJ31DOS UBDU3Uiy 3qi ipiM 
uoijounfuoo ui p{3q sq in^v qoiqM qjnq 
-snid UI 3DBJ psjosuods QWD 61 njdV 
3qj SI 30UBD 3J3JDUOO UI JJB-3qj-JO-3JBJS 
ju3S3iddJ oj 3uinuijuoo joj uoijbaijolu 
{BUOlJippB ub sjusuiqsqduioDDB snoiA3Jd 
s(qnp sqj uiojj spisy -jsb3 sqj ui ssoubd 
3J3JOUOD jqSiSMjqSq js3uy 3qj ui30bj 
puB SuiJDnJJSUOD 8uiu3lS3p OJ S3DJnOS3J 
puB sjjojjs sji pspuusqo seq Xjjusdsj 
jsoui jnq S3DBJ sqj jnoqB oijsBisnqjus U33q 
sXbmjb sBq qnp sqi "sjbsX msj jsBd 3qj ui 
XBM Suoi B 3UIOD SBq OW3 JB SupBJ 30UB3 
e6ed >peq J1napanuauoo
douej djsjDuoj
UIBJIH - 8uiAIp JBUOpdo 
v. w isl uojSuujb^) fiW3 * Buuip Xjos|nduio3 
(8' ie:e **Xjbw JJ^a ubui3|03 X35ioia) nWD - fo\31 3IX1S33JJ pX oot^ 
(SZZ-Z 5J9sXjbj^0 HND  95jojjs;sB3jq pX OOZ 
(l'9:S ilND - 3iXjs33Jj pX 00S
(V91-Z 'toPKl) flWD - 8>l0Jjs^3Bq pX 00Z
(e es nwD - 9ldhiiCC p^ooi
(O bl -Z UBUI3J03) HMD * Xyisjjnq pX 003 
(6'Zl 'Z ^3IQ) HMD - X9IP3UI [BnpiAipui pX 003
(rpz jjBa) nwD - aix^jj -px os
(8 \0Z issoh) nWD - 3lXjs33Jj -pX 00S 
(33BJ sqj 8uunp OOS 3lP ^ ^ P^oosj jooqos 
0001 3^ Joj pjoo3j pod jooqos - 8* S-11 ^sXjb^ HW3 * q^jsssij -pX OOOI 
(e eo-t :UBUI3P3 sqqoH uosjsjjb^ Xs^pia d) HW3 - XbI9J 00t^
MnkBfkgA sjjnss^i 8nknknkkPi
jnoijJOM gJ1Jr93 psjinbsj sqj) uisq;
JOJ pspiAOld SjnO^IOM XyiBp 30IMJ 3IfJ
ifjiM ju3juod jou XyjU3JBddy Bpuoy ui 
sXsp ?[B3jq sBuijsuqQ jpqj jo usj jusds 
jooqos aqj jb sajapqjB pajBDipsp Jsoui 
aqj sb 9joa Xui jaS XfjBjuappui oqM M8io 
Suiuiuiiavs s4uBtuoaj buuoq :9jou stJo;ip3 
* * *
Wd Z uqof J3Mod jBiuajjad jaaui
o; iz XJBnuBf auioq 8uiiunj9J {ooqos 
iMO 9lP l9tu 1 ^3f[OD uinSupfsnj^
OJ JX3U pABJJ SJ3UIUIIMS flWD 9lU
'(^-89) J91SUIUIJS3M PUB (^69) 
5{oo^ Xisddqs si3A\od 383{{oo-jjbuis Xq SUBJJBX 9lft uo p9UJnj 3I3M S3{qBJ 3qx
'9S~L9 UIB3J UOSJ3JJ3f pUB 
uojSurqsB^V q8noj b psSps 3}Bp oj Xjojoia 
jUBjJodmi jsoui ipqj ui puB >38 
3891103 qspJM paduiBMs 98-311 u9j 
JB9X jsiy st9US9nbnQ J9AO uom nWD 
5{B9jq sBuijsuq3 9ip gjojgq uoijob uj 
*XB|9J 9|XjS99JJ pX OOt 9MJ PUE 3JXJS99JJ 
P^ 001 9M* 49|Xjs99jj pX OS 9M :S*SJU 
99Jqj P9J9UJB8 OqM IJBQ UK>X UBUiqS9JJ 
PUB t(9|XjS99JJ pX OOt7 90Bjd JSJy PUB 
Xyjgjjnq pX 003 90BId lSJlJ Xspj gjXjs 
-99IJ pX OOt 93B|d JSiy) UBUI9J03 XlIBH 
UIBjdBO-OO JOIUnf i(9|XjS99IJ 001 90Bld 
PU0D9S 9{XjS991J -pX OS PU009S
 XBpj X9[P9UI OOt 9^{d JSJy) X95{Dl(I 
9J9d J0IU9S Xq p9| OSJB 9J9M SUBJIB^ 9qi
jsiy jgqjouB oj uiB9j XBpi 9{Xjs 
-99Jj pX OOt 9M1 SuuoqouB pire-g^oijs 
-jsBgjq pX 003 9qj--Xj{Bp9ds siq 8up(Bj 
Xq sjjojjg siq pgpnpuoo >{97MayaU vnya gqj 
jo jyBq jsjy gqj ui 9jXjS99Jj pX OOS 9^P 
ana pJOD9J jooqos 3qj SupjBgjq n7ay 9jiqM 
gouBjsip gjoqM gqj ana spjoor jood pire 
jooqos 9i|j qjoq 35jojq aav7Mayast 9jXjS99Jj 
pX 0001 9W ui gJ1J1J1187 ssaoojd 9qj
UI SpJ009J 39Jqj 8UIJJ9S PUB SJJOJJ9 OJOS 
9JOUI OMJ SuunjdBO 9JiqM XlOJOIA UIB9J 9UO 
ui 8uijBdpijJBd--8uipiiBjsjno XjJBjnoijJBd 
SBM 5J9SXjBJ^ UUOf J95(OJJSJSB9Jq UBUI 
-qsgjj XjjqSuq guoqs MJyJ1 9J9qM J99UI 
y uj  JU9A9 J1yJ1 jpqj jo jno 8J1J1J1187
UB9q SJ9qiU9UI UIB9J J9JJB U9A9 SJU9A9 
U99JJEJJ JO jno 9AJ9MJ SUIUUIM p9SS9Jd 
I9A9U 9J9M SJ9UIUTIAVS UBJJB^ 9qX
pgqouqo U99q psq Xjojoia 
gqj J9JJB (jsgq 9qj 9J9M X9qj gsnBogq 
JOU puB XjpjU9UIU9dX9 SJU9A9 JOJ U9SOqO 
9J9M SJ9UIIUIMS SI JBqj) tiUOIJiqiX9 
UI 9UOXJ9A9 JSOUI JB UIBMS UBUJ09d qoB03 
SB 9JB0IpUI pjnOM 9JOOS 9lfJ UBqj p9JS9J 
-UOO XJ9SOJO SS9J U9A9 SBM J99UI 9qjL
'3 MOU SI pJ009J 
J99UI [Bnp stuiB9j gqi lt^69 99IID 
UIBJIH P9JB9J9P XjipUBq UBUI09d BUUOQ 
q0BO3 jo uoijo9Jip 9qj jgpun ureax 
Suiuiuiims nWD 9lP XBpjnjBS jSBq 
issoy uqof Ag
Zo; PJOD0J .SJaUJUJIMS
S0AOUJ UjM UJBJIH
91 36ed-NViUVX-8i6l Yl Aaenuep

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTSTartans launch into new year
Gators swamped
by Bob Firm
Camegie-Mellon used a 17-0 spurt in the 
first half to gain complete command of 
the contest as they easily glided to an 80- 
67 victory over visiting Allegheny. The tri
umph extended the Tartans home court 
victory streak to 14.
CMU started to pull away early in the 
first half when they connected for 11 
straight markers. Co-captain George Har
veys jumper gave the Tartans the lead for 
good at 14:04, 10-8. Larry Hufnagel 
quickly followed with the first of three 
three point plays and CMU was off to the 
races.
If the 11 point blitz was hard for the 
Gators (2-6 and 0-2) to swallow, theyll 
be choking for weeks on the next item 
served to them. Allegheny went without 
a single point from 9:12 left in the first 
half until only 2:40 remained. Meanwhile 
the Tartans were romping with a big 17.
Leapin Les Harper canned three hoops, 
Harvey deposited three, Hufnagel got an
other three pointer on a power move to the 
hoop, and freshman Joe Belechak, looking 
more like a veteran every game, hit for two 
buckets to give the Tartans the big halftime 
advantage of 43-27.
Throughout the first stanza, CMU 
played near perfect basketball. Tech ran 
well, shot superbly, played excellent zone 
defense, and most importantly was aggres
sive on the backboards.
The second half was not as artistic as 
the first, but it did have its highlights. All
eghenys sophomore guard Jim Wheeler put 
on an excellent shooting display with 13 
second half points on long jumpers. The 
former high school teammate of Hufnagel 
led the Gators with 19 points.
Hufnagel brought the large crowd at 
Skibo Gym to their feet with a two-handed 
breakaway slam dunk that had the back
board vibrating for several seconds. This 
combined with Harpers fine second half 
put the Tartans on easy street en route to 
the victory.
Balanced scoring that was a CMU 
trademark last season could be devastating 
to Presidents Athletic Conference foes 
again this year. Harvey led the scoring par
ade with 24 points. Hufnagel hit for 21 
with a strong inside game. Harpers big sec
ond half helped him to a 16 point game
and Belechak hit for double figures for the 
third game in a row with 14.
The Gators also had four men in double 
figures. Besides Wheeler, Tom Albert hit 
for 13 and Eric Lindberg and Ralph Hop
kins divided 20. Linberg was plagued by 
early foul trouble and did not play as well 
against the Tartans as he did last year.
Coach Dave Maloneys Tartans are back 
in action tomorrow night at Skibo Gym
nasium at 8:00 pm against PAC rival John 
Carroll. CMU travels to Hiram on Saturday 
at 8:00 pm for a key conference matchup. 
The Tartans victory on the Terriers floor 
last season was one of the greatest games 
in school history and probably the most 
important in the 1976-77 campaign.
Th fans gat ready to applaud Hufnagel' dunk.
Intramural sports
This week in I.M. Sports competition 
begins in basketball. This year a record 73 
teams are competing for championships in 
three divisions: a major league, an inter
mediate league, and a minor division.
In the Major League alone fifteen teams 
are competing. They are ATO, Beta, 
PIKA, SAE, The Skunks, MDBC, GSIABucks, the Sex Pistols, the Other Ones, 
C-Map Show Stoppers, Reality II, the AllStars, the Coaches All-Stars, the Celtics, 
and the Nerd-Knockers.
As usual, the intramural basketball pro
gram will be one of the two or three focal 
points of the Intra-School sports program. 
In recent years, every succeeding season 
has been larger and more competative 
than the one before. This year should be 
no exception as more teams of more play
ers will compete than ever before.
Other events coming up this week in IM 
Sports are Handball, Water Basketball, and 
Wrestling. The registration forms for these 
sports will be available in Mr. Birdys office 
(Gymnasium 106) until Tuesday, January 
24.
The nose Knows: 
Basketball
by Frank Pugliano
As the I.M. Basketball season begins to 
take form, three teams - Reality II, the 
Nerd Knockers, and ATO - are emerging 
from the pack as the likely successor to 
Reality as school champs.
Reality II, an evolved form of Reality, 
should retain enough unity, spirit, and tal
ent to make them a strong threat. ATO 
and the Nerd Knockers are two teams cast 
in similar molds - collections of compet
itive, present or former varsity athletes, 
who also possess more than their share of 
basketball talent. This combination should 
not only carry these teams to the top, but 
should provide several close, exciting 
match-ups during the regular season.
Stay tuned for further developments.
Presidents beaten
by Bob Firm
Carnegie-Mellon opened their defense of 
the Presidents Athletic Conference title in 
fine fashion on the road at Washington & 
Jefferson with a 86-68 triumph. The vic
tory was sweet revenge for Coach Dave 
Maloneys crew whose only conference 
loss last year was at the Presidents home 
floor.
Coach Maloney was obviously pleased 
with the performance. It was one of our 
better games. I was especially pleased with 
our two freshment Joe Belechak and Dave 
Hofmeister. Were a little short depth wise 
with Mariano (DeFilippo) and Mike 
(Underhill) out of the lineup, but the fresh
men really came through.
While the 6-6 Hofmeister gave Maloney 
some depth up front, it was the sensational 
Belechak that came up with the big per
formance in place of DeFilippo. Late in 
the first half that saw 10 ties and 13 lead 
changes, W & J was running their pattern 
offense that gave the Tartans fits last sea
son in slow paced games.
Belechak came up with a steal and 
started a fast break that eventually worked 
its way back to last years WPIAL Class A 
MVP for a layup and a 37-33 Tartan lead. 
All-America guard George Harvey followed 
suit the next trip down the floor for the 
Prexies and CMU had a 39-33 halftime adv
antage.
CMU finally got W & J into a running 
game early in the second half and lterally 
ran them off the floor. The Tartans outscored the hosts 13-0 during a five minute 
stretch to move to an extremely comfor
table lead. Les Harper was the key figure 
in the streak with four field goals.
The Tartans aggressive rebounding was a 
major factor in the victory. Harper and 
Larry Hufnagel wiped the glass clean of 
any stray shots as they split 24 boards. 
Their strength, particularly on the offen
sive boards, will be important to the teams 
success.
Balanced scoring was a big plus for the 
Tartans against the Presidents. Harvey got 
back into form after a disappointing 
tournament at Bloomsburg with 20 points 
to lead the attack. Belechak came through 
with the highest point total of his young 
college career with 18. The two backcourt 
men were aided by 19 points from Harper 
and 16 from Hufnagel to go along with 
the strong rebounding.
Washington & Jeffersons (1-4 and 0-1) 
only real offensive threat was Raybuck. 
He scored outside in the first half and in
side during the second for a total of 26 
points and 10 rebounds. Wallingford 
added 12 and Yakovak chipped in with 10.
Concrete canoe?
by Mary Weeks
To every school year at CMU (at least 
for the past several years) there is a con
crete canoe season. . . a time to construct, 
a time to train, a time to race . . . and that 
season happens to be upon us now. The 
CMU Concrete Canoe Club has been work
ing since September to prepare for the 
spring sequence of construction and 
racing. Although the club is based in the 
Civil Engineering Department, with prin
cipal membership traditionally coming 
from that department, 1978 co-chairmen 
Lynn Ritter and Tony DiGioia have opened the club to the general campus 
community. This year emphasis is on 
securing people with as many types of 
skills as possible, ranging from paddling 
and construction ability to public relations, 
photography, and graphic design skills. 
For those who aren't aware, Concrete 
continued on page 15
