Inside
Calendar...............................................L14
Living.................................LL
...................6
Sports....................................9
Sports
Bad week for Tartan 
sports  see page 9
Living
Dance your way through 
CMU  see page LI
Diversions
Drug scene exposed 
 see page L9
THE TARTAN
Volume 90, Issue 5Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 19062 October 1995
Campus mourns Schoenwald
Professors death stuns H&SS faculty, students
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
& JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Richard Schoenwald, a CMU history 
I professor for 31 years, died Saturday of 
an apparent heart attack at his home in 
Highland Park. He was 68.
The death shocked friends, family, stu
dents, and colleagues of the well-re
spected professor, who remembered him 
as an inspirational teacher, a mentor, 
and avid supporter of the arts.
There had been no warning of this, 
said H&SS Dean Peter Steams. This is 
confusing and distressing.
Schoenwald was an expert on the his
tory of philosophy, the arts, and culture, 
but he was best known for his role as an 
educator.
 Steven Schlossman, head of the His
tory Department, said Schoenwald con
sidered teaching to be a holy venture.
Dick has already received recogni
tion as one of the of the greatest teachers 
in Carnegie Mellons history ... he is a 
teacher for life as well as about life, said 
Schlossman. A student remains Dicks 
student for as long as he or she chooses 
to be.
He was one of our reklly fine teach
ers, said Stearns. He had a tremen
dous rapport .with the students he taught. 
He will be impossible to replace; and his 
[loss will be difficult to deal with.
 Schoenwald gained respect from stu
dents and alumni for serving as an intel; lectual guide throughout their careers. 
He was known to send letters, give ad; vice, or simply support current and 
; former students by attending their pre
sentations, art openings and perfor
mances.
He knew what his students were doPhoto by Harold Corsini; reprinted with permission of University Relations 
History professor Richard Schoenwald, seen here in a 1982 photo, lived with and for 
his students, said H&SS Dean Peter Stearns.
ing. He tracked their progress outside 
class  he went to a play I directed, he 
sent me a postcard while he was in 
Europe this summer, said Daniella 
Topol, a senior directing major. That is 
what made him unique. He was a teacher 
inside and outside the classroom.
He spent a lot of time working one-onone with his students, Stearns said. 
He cared'about his students, and that 
care came through. He said that although Schoenwald was a renowned 
writer and researcher, with two books 
and numerous articles to his credit, his
real legacy would be his commitment to 
education.
- He lived with and.for his students, 
said Steains.
This commitment led Schlossman to 
nominate Schoenwald for the Under
graduate Advising Award this year. In 
1988 Schoenwald received the Elliot 
Dunlap Smith Award, and in 1989 the 
William H. and Francis S. Ryan Teach
ing Award.
Stearns said that Schoenwald could 
usually be found in his office in Baker 
Please see SCHOENWALD, page 3
Press rolls again 
at Student Union
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffwriter
After some organizational problems, 
a budget battle with Student Senate, 
and a fight with its former printer, 
CMUs alternative newspaper is back 
in action.
The first issue of The Student Union 
for the year should appear this week.
[The Union] provides an open fo
rum, and an outlet for factual reportIm pretty excited that there 
are new; young people who are 
as excited as we are. 
 Lenny Young, 
Student Union staff
ing... and expression, serious and light
hearted, that is not bound by space or 
content restrictions, said Lenny 
Young, who has been working with 
the paper for four years. Young is a
1995 CFA graduate.
Last semester, the Union was 
dropped by itsprinter, Typecraft Press, 
because the companys owner consid
ered some material in the paper of
fensive [Printer drops Union, 4/17]. 
The move came after Typecraft also 
refused to print an issue of The Pitt 
News.
And the Union, a collective that 
doesnt use a conventional hierarchy, 
didnt have a representative present 
at its budget hearing in front of Stu
dent Senate. The apparent disorder of 
the organization led Senate to set a 
deadline for the Union to choose a new 
printer or its budget would be frozen.
Oyer the summer the Union worked 
on preparing their offices and regroup
ing so that it could put the paper out 
again, said Young.
Tatsuhiro Ikeda, a senior IM/GCM 
major, used his connections through 
the printer he was working for to find 
a new contract for the Union. The 
paper is being 
printed this year by 
The Indiana Ga
zette in Indiana, 
Pa., north of Pitts
burgh.
New computers 
were purchased 
and an informal hi
erarchy was established to show Sen
ate that the group 
had a working structure, with writers 
and editors who were interested in 
getting involved.
Young said that instead of elected 
offices they set up a system where 
people accepted responsibilities to get 
things done.
Im pretty excited that there are 
new, young people who are as excited 
as we are, he said.
The Union currently has a budget of 
approximately $4,600, a sharp de
crease from the $10,000 they received 
last year. The Union told Senates 
Funding and Recognition Committee 
that was not enough to put out the 
paper regularly, and asked for a subPlease see UNION, page 5
CMU Alum returns.
Drama Dept head 
brings fresh outlook
By KENNETH NAMKUNG
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
A national search for a new 
Drama Department head 
brought another CMU alum
nus back to his roots.
Peter Frisch, a 1969 gradu
ate of the department, has suc
ceeded Elisabeth Orion, wjho 
decided to return to her teach
ing and acting career after nine 
years as department chair.
He says he returns to the 
University with hopes of shar
ing his real world experience 
with students.
I saw it as an opportunity to 
integrate everything and focus 
it on one institutional goal, he 
says. Everything Ive done, I 
can apply here.
Orion says that she had a 
number of reasons for stepping 
down. Id done it for nine 
years, she says. I felt that it 
was demanding, and I wanted 
to go back to teaching. She 
also heads the Moscow Art 
Theatre Program.
She felt that her term as de
partment head had left a posi
tive mark on the department. 
The faculty and I have 
achieved a great amount in the 
amount of time that we had; we 
accomplished many of the 
things I had hoped to accom
plish, and when we didnt, it 
was often because of funds or 
lack of facilities. The faculty
are great team players who put 
teaching of students as top pri
ority.
I certainly wish [Frisch] the 
best of all possible worlds with 
the department, Orion says.
Frisch characterized Orion as 
a remarkable actress and a 
really renowned teacher. 
Frisch has done much of his 
work outside of the academic 
world and has been doing 
freelance television and produc
tion work since the 1960s. In 
1992, he joined the faculty of 
UCLA, while at the same time, 
he continued to produce and 
direct for television.
He says that his contacts in 
the industry will open up op
portunities for students. Be
cause of my Los Angeles con
nections, Ive been able to tap 
friends who work on The XFiles and Chicago Hope, and 
theyll be reviewing the work of. 
our students.
He was chosen after a wideranging search for a depart
ment head that included Frisch 
and two in-house candidates. 
Each candidate was subjected 
to a lengthy review process.
I came in twice, and I spent 
three to four days each time, 
and each day I must have had 
eight meetings, says Frisch, 
who met with everyone from 
University President Robert 
Mehrabian to a group of 150 
Please see DRAMA, page 3
PAT: U-Zone success Incredible
Rumors of planned cuts are false; CMU may join project
By GIL ALTEROVITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
To paraphrase Mark Twain, 
reports of the death of the experi
mental PATransit U-Zone bus 
service have been extremely ex
aggerated.
In fact, in the past few months, 
Carnegie Mellon and PAT (the 
Port Authority of Allegheny 
County) have been studying CMU
student use of certain PATransit 
buses. They may be close to a deal 
soon.
Weve been working on our 
possible contract with the Port 
Authority since springtime, said 
Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia, whose department 
oversees CMUs shuttle service.
Last spring, discussions be
tween PAT and the University of 
Pittsburgh yielded a Pitt shuttle
service that was drastically re
duced in scope.
Carnegie Mellon and Pitt had 
been working for over a year on 
integrating the Pitt and CMU 
shuttle systems, said Neal 
Binstock, assistant vice president 
for business services.
Those negotiations were put on 
hold after PAT decided that the 
Pitt shuttle routes infringed on 
the authoritys bus service.
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Staff Manager
Bus driver Ron Fussaro eases PATs 64U Squirrel Hill-Oakland onto Forbes Avenue. The U-Zones success 
has made PAT officials hopeful that the authority can negotiate an agreement with CMU.
We [PAT] have the authority 
to grant permission for private 
contractual shuttle service, said 
PAT spokesperson Staci Vernick. 
That right was granted to PAT 
when the agency was created in 
the mid-1960s.
Last year, our board of direc
tors voted to take away a portion 
of [the Pitt] shuttle service ... 
because we found that it was du
plicating our regular bus service, 
said Vernick.
Negotiations for campus bus 
access then shifted from CMU 
and Pitt to CMU and PAT.
The current agreement be
tween Pitt and PAT amounts to a 
one-year demonstration project 
that began this past May. 
Through the agreement, Pitt ID 
holders can ride two PAT routes^ 
for free: the 64U Squirrel Hill-, 
Oakland and 74U ShadysideOakland Routes. CMU students^ 
must pay the full fare of $1.25.
Vernick said the ridership will 
be one of the overriding factors; 
in determining the success of the 
demonstration project. She 
hinted that, so far, PAT is enthu
siastic about the results.
Its been incredible. We only 
started this thing in May, and 
school was out in May, of course,' 
for the summer recess, Vernick 
said. We had a lot more riders 
than we anticipated.
Ridership from May to August 
averaged 50,000 per month, and1 
Vernick estimated ridership at1 
75,000 per month once school re-; 
opened this fall.
Vernick said that the AuthorPlease see U-ZONE, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

Carn aegieM l oegMnUvn snttyM 'MvSnguvid l C Nwiypng c119
  
First change in 67 years...
Mint unveils new C-note
WASHINGTON, D.C., Sept. 28 (DJ)
 In a step to thwart counterfeiting, 
the U.S. government unveiled a rede
signed $100 bill yesterday and said it 
will redo other denominations over 
the next six years.
The changes, the first in 67 years, 
include an enlarged portrait of Ben
jamin Franklin, moved slightly offcenter to make room for a new water
mark.
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin 
said the department plans to begin 
circulating the new $100 bill in early
1996 and will introduce similarly re
designed greenbacks for smaller de
nominations each year through 2001, 
when a new $1 bill will go into circula
tion.
We are making our currency secure 
against future and potential threats 
from the advancing technologies that 
could be used by counterfeiters, and 
thereby protecting the respect and use 
of our currency here and abroad, 
Rubin said at a ceremony at the Trea
sury. The ceremony featured a speech 
on the history of paper currency by an 
actor dressed as Benjamin Franklin.
But changing all bills will pose prob
lems for vending machines. A rede
sign would threaten the investment of $1 bill acceptors ... across the coun
try, said a spokesman for the Na
tional Automatic Merchandising As
sociation in Chicago. The association
has been pushing for the U.S. to re
place the $1 bill with a coin, but efforts 
to that end in Congress have been 
unsuccessful.
Rubin and Federal Reserve Chair
man Alan Greenspan emphasized that 
bills currently in circulation remain 
good and wont be recalled.
Treasury officials, along with mem
bers of the U.S. Secret Service and 
Federal Reserve, have spent the last 
18 months traveling to the countries 
that deal the most in U.S. currency, 
meeting with central bankers and gov
ernment officials to caim their con
cerns about the redesign, federal au
thorities said.
Most U.S. currency circulates out
side the U.S., much of it in countries 
where the public has little faith in the 
local currency. The Fed estimates that 
between 55 percent and 73 percent of 
the $229 billion worth of $100 bills 
circulate overseas.
The larger portrait on the new bills 
will incorporate more detail, making 
it easier to recognize and harder to 
counterfeit. Other changes include:
A security thread that will glow 
red under ultraviolet light.
The use of color-shifting ink that 
changes from green to black when 
viewed at different angles.
 Concentric fine-line printing, which 
is difficult to reproduce using scan
ning equipment.
Cowboys Jones angers NFL
League slaps Dallas owner with $300M lawsuit
DALLAS, Sept. 28 (DJ)  A bus 
' stops between two giant inflatable 
Pepsi cans and out bounces a brigade 
of volunteers in Pepsi T-shirts. They 
 are armed with Pepsi bandanas. In 
 their zeal, they collide with volun
teers from Frito-Lay handing out coupons for Doritos. Security officers 
 wearing red Nike T-shirts and white 
f Nike caps try to keep order.
Over at the American Express cor
ral, spectators under Dr. Pepper um' brellas applaud the Seagrams Joust. 
In the tent, a band performs on the 
Miller Lite stage, flanked by Zenith 1 big-screen TV sets. Nearby is the 
Southwestern Bell table, which is of
fering free cellular-telephone service.
This isn't a scene from your local 
shopping center. No, this is Texas 
Stadium, home of the Dallas Cowboys 
and lair of Jerry Jones, the mercurial 
Cowboys owner. It is the NFLs worst 
nightmare: the end of the leagues 
socialist economy.
It is the purest form of a planned
economy anywhere north of Cuba: 
shared TV revenue, shared licensing 
revenue and a generous gate-receipt 
split: 60 percent for home teams, 40 
percent for visitors. It is an odd system 
for this quintessential American game, 
but it has worked fabulously well  
until now, when a new breed of owner 
has been unleashed upon the NFL.
In recent weeks, Jones has emerged 
as the NFLs Gorbachev, setting out to 
reform the groups spread-the-wealth 
dogma. Jones has been implementing 
his Dallastroika through good old 
American ambush marketing, and all 
this, the league asserts, violates the 
NFLs marketing covenants. It served 
him with a $300 million lawsuit last 
week.
Jones has already struck a 10-year, 
$25 million deal with Pepsi, which 
undercut official NFL soft drink CocaCola. He made a seven-year deal with 
Nike, and Jones was prepared to strike 
again with American Express, to the 
distress of NFL sponsor Visa.
NTSB reenacts USAir 427 events
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J., Sept. 26 (DJ)
 Investigators are flying a Boeing 737 
in the wake of another jet to see if turbu
lence played a role in last years deadly 
crash of a USAir 737 in Aliquippa, Pa.
The lead jet, a Boeing 727, is equipped 
with generators that blow smoke over 
the wings, making the air currents vis
ible to video cameras on the 737s wings.
The larger jet is fitted with sensors 
connected to the rudder, ailerons and 
other gear to gauge its response to the 
wake turbulence.
USAir Flight 427 was about four miles 
behind a 727 on a routine landing ap
proach to Pittsburgh International Air
port when it flipped and slammed into a 
ravine on Sept. 8,1994, killing all 132 
people aboard.
Investigators are not worried about 
recreating the crash as well as the tur
bulence.
We dont believe theres a real risk 
involved here, said Mike Benson, a 
spokesman for the National Transpor
tation Safety Board, which is conduct
ing the tests with the FAA, the Airline 
Pilots Association, Boeing, and USAir. 
These test pilots are prepared for whats 
going to happen.
Wilson drops out of 1996 race
WASHINGTON, D.C., Sept. 29 (DJ)
 Out of money and trailing badly even 
in his home state, California Gov. Pete 
Wilson abandoned his bid for the 1996 
Republican presidential nomination, 
saying he could not in good conscience 
pile up a huge debt.
As much as your hearts and mine tell 
me to fight on, my conscience tells me 
that to do so would be unfair to all of us, 
Wilson said.at a Sacramento rally. To 
go on would simply be to run up an 
unacceptable debt.
Wilson made his decision late Thurs
day after being told he would have to 
borrow to keep his campaign alive. He 
called supporters Friday to inform them 
he would quit the race. He was the first 
declared 1996 hopeful to bow out.
Most of the remaining candidates sug
gested they stood to gain. Conservative 
commentator Pat Buchanan noted that 
he also had put curbs on immigration 
and affirmative action atop his social 
agenda. Texas Sen. Phil Gramm released 
a list of his support in California, and 
suggested he now had as good a chance 
as anyone to win the states March pri
mary, if the nomination isnt already 
decided by then.
The GOP front-runner, Senate Major
ity Leader Bob Dole, had little to say 
about Wilson directly, save calling the 
governor a longtime friend.
Given their strength in the South, 
Republicans believe they can retake the 
White House without winning Califor
nia next year, though they have hardly 
given up on the state. But the state is 
critical to President Clintons re-election hopes, and his advisers had been 
thrilled at Wilsons early troubles.
U.S. firms find ways to compete
SHANGHAI, Sept. 29 (DJ)  Virtu
ally alone among major economies, the 
U.S. forbids its companies from paying 
bribes to win international business since 
1977, regardless of what rivals do.
To compete, U.S. companies have 
found new ways to make friends, influ
ence people and win contracts. General 
Motors, for example, established a GM 
Technology Institute in Shanghai last 
week, its second in China.
Some companies take foreign officials 
to Disney World. Others hire middle
men who do the dirty work. And most
multinationals make small gifts to 
hasten inspections, telephone installa
tions and customs clearances.
U.S. laws have teeth, big teeth, in
cluding hefty fines and prison sentences. 
But there are still those who violate the 
law. Just this year, Lockheed-Martin 
pleaded guilty to making payments of 
$1.5 million to.an Egyptian official to 
win a contract' for three aircraft. 
Lockheed paid $24 million in fines, twice 
the profits from the sale.
On the whole, though, says the Justice 
Department, U.S. companies are much 
cleaner than they were before the law 
was enacted. In some cases, bribery is 
becoming less of an obstacle because of 
the current privatization and free-trade 
mania.Vietnam, for example, last week 
approved an investment license for 
$49 million joint venture of Coca-Cola 
Co. and two other Asian firms to produce 
and bottle Coca-Cola products in Ho Chi 
Minh City.
OTA first victim of Congress axe
WASHINGTON, D.C., Sept. 29 (DJ)
 The federal government actually 
became smaller Friday.
When the Office of Technology As
sessment shut its doors, a small but 
highly symbolic footnote was added to 
the history of the Republican revolu
tion.
Not surprisingly, the workers at the 
commission who face job losses dont 
see it that way. It has nothing to do 
with what our mission is or why we 
were created or how well we do our 
jobs or even the money, says one 
worker. They just want to knock off 
agencies. They are looking to put 
notches on their belt.
The OTA, which was created in 1972 
to give impartial science and technol
ogy advice to Congress, is just the first 
victim of a GOP Congress determined 
to shrink the federal government.
Even Democrats agree that as more 
agencies go into the bureaucratic 
graveyard, the change will be historic. 
The most significant impact, says Rob
ert Reischauer, former head of the 
Congressional Budget Office, will be a 
wrenching readjustment of priorities
that will hit larger offices, such as the 
Environmental Protection Agency, and 
others that have been threatened with 
big staff reductions.
The OTA was vulnerable because it 
had no special-interest groups deter
mined to save it. The office was offered 
up as a sacrificial lamb last December 
by House Republicans to show their 
willingness to cut their own budget.
Other agencies are struggling to save 
themselves. For example, the Com
merce Department has been trying to 
get corporations that have benefitted 
from its export and trade programs to 
lobby Congress for a reprieve.
Even agencies that appear to be go
ing may never really be gone. At deaths 
door is the Interstate Commerce Com
mission (ICC),, created in1887 to regu
late railroads. After watching previ
ous efforts to kill the agency flounder, 
insiders are betting it will finally be
come extinct by the end of the year.
But Congress hasnt worked out who 
will take over those ICC duties that 
still matter, like reviewing railroad 
mergers. A successor to the ICC is 
likely to be created.
Awaiting execution..
Budget
(FY'95, millions)Employees
Office of Technology Assessment$ 22.0200
Bureau of Mines152.01,800*
Interstate Commerce Commission30.3380*
Administrative Conference of the U.S.1.818
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corp.2.726
Advisory Commission on Intergov'tl Relations1.011
* Approximately 1,200 jobs will be lost; others will transfer to other agencies 
** Perhaps 100 jobs could transfer to ICCs successor
source: Dow Jones News Service
Four-Day Forecast
MondayPartly sunny, with 
moderate winds. 
High in the mid-70s; 
evening lows in the 
mld-50s.
TuesdayIncreasing cloudi
ness, with a 40 
percent chance of 
PM showers. High in 
the lower 70s.
WednesdayMostly cloudy, with 
periods of rain. Low 
45-55; high 60-70.
ThursdayGray skies with 
occassional drizzle. 
Low near 50, high 
60-70 degrees.
Carnegie Almanac
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, October 9, 
1945: The demolition of Carnegie 
Techs old Canteen and Skibo Inn 
inspired one writer for The Car
negie Tartan to wax poetic.
I shed a few tears ... but I 
quickly recovered from my sad
ness at the sight of men coming 
out of one of the mens dorms, 
the unknown writer said. Imag
ine, real civilian men going to 
Tech and living in Techs dorms! 
It was a revolutionary idea!
I discovered also that the re
decorated Beanery will now be 
called the Skibo Inn, the article 
continued. Incidentally, Skibo 
should be pronounced Skeebo. 
... But the first two [Skibo Inns] 
were pronounced Skybo, not 
Skeebo, and I fear that the third 
attempt at proper pronunciation 
will bring the same results as the 
other two.
25 YEARS AGO, October 1, 
1970: C-MUs administration de
nied lawyer and activist William 
Kunstler the right to speak at 
Thistle Gym.
The University had five main 
objections: Possible overcrowding 
of the gym, the possibility of a
riot, lack of campus security of
ficers for crowd control, a lack of 
available parking, and the fact 
that the speech was sponsored in 
part by an off-campus group: the 
University of Pittsburgh Student 
Bar Association.
The Tartan, another sponsor of 
the event, called the admin
istrations decision low comedy.
Instead of attempting to work 
ot minor problems of organiza
tion and logistics with students, 
the University has cited such 
problems as inadequate park
ing facilities.
I cant think of a time when 
there has [sic] ever been adequate 
parking facilities here, com
plained an editorial. Have you 
ever been excused from class be
cause you couldnt find a place to 
park? Did we ever cancel classes 
when the Pirates played a game 
at Forbes Field?
TEN YEARS AGO, October 1, 
1985: The more things change, 
the more they stay the same. Fif
teen years later, another Tartan 
editorial blasted the lack of park
ing on campus.
The new buildings being raised
on and close to this campus have 
caused a serious problem: park
ing, said the paper. The con
struction of the Software Engi
neering Institute has shut down 
the Mellon Institute parking lot. 
If the proposed hotel/conference 
center goes up behind Morewood 
Gardens, another parking lot will 
be closed.
Is anything being done to solve 
the problem?... More concessions 
should be made for student park
ing. Every year, getting a space is 
more and more difficult. The 
schools enrollment grows every 
year, while the number of avail
able spaces dwindles. This is a 
problem that will not fade away. 
Steps should be taken to allevi
ate it, and quickly.
i;iVE YEARS AGO, October 
1,1990: The Pirates clinched their 
first National League Eastern 
Division title since 1979, and the 
city went crazy.
A mob scene greeted the con
quering heroes when they arrived 
at the old Greater Pittsburgh In
ternational Airport. The airport 
was a sea of black and gold and 
Green Weenies [the traditional 
Pirate good-luck talismans], 
wrote Jason McDonald and Caleb 
Cohen. For the younger fans, 
the Pirate Parrot put in an ap
pearance.
WTAEs Lynn Cullen was also 
spotted, but she said she was just 
there as a Pirate fan.
Compiled by 
JASON TOGYER
The Tartan will celebrate its 90th anniversary in 1996. Heres the 
paper's 1950 flag.

---------------------------------------------------

arn aegieM l oegMnUvn snttyM 'MvSnguvid l C Nwiypng c1190
Drama alum returns 
to lead department
DRAMA, from page 1
 drama students.
Even so, he had only good com' ments about the review process, 
i I loved it I had a great time.
I didnt feel I was on the spot...It 
: felt very natural, he says.
' Thursday he appointed one of 
the former candidates for the 
department chair, Gregory 
! Lehane, to the position of asso| ciate head. The search commitl tee got its first and second 
; choices after all. Fritsch says.
Frisch says not much has 
changed since he graduated in 
I the 60s. He does feel that the 
\ teaching is better now than it 
| was then. Its more cohesive 
: than in the 1960s...Id give it a 
I better grade, he says.
Frischs classmates during 
that time included Steven 
Bochco (LA. Law, N.Y.P.D. 
Blue) and Judith Light (Whos 
The Boss?).
According to Frisch, the un, dergraduate profile remains the 
 same. Theyre identical.
[Dramamajors are] driven. ..en; ergetic, and their emotions are 
worn on their sleeve, he says.
Its a very outgoing, and at the 
same time, serious group of 
people. If you go into drama, the 
idea that imagination is more 
important than anything in life 
precedes everything else. That 
unifies the students then and 
now.
Frisch is promoting a closer 
working relationship between all 
of the departments in CFA, and 
his plans for the department in
clude a partnership between 
Drama and Music.Tts a natural 
combination. For Pippin, were 
using student musicians, he 
says.
He also says that a new college-wide pilot course will be in
troduced this fall for CFA stu
dents. The course will focus on 
relationships between all divi
sions of the arts and artistic con
cepts.
The course will study the in
terrelationship in the arts, and 
well have ten people from each 
discipline, for a total of fifty stu
dents, he says.
Also, he says that he intends to 
try to boost Dramas already high 
ranking.
CMU loses well-respected history professor
SCHOENWALD, from page 1
Hall  the same office that he 
had occupied for decadesmeet
ing with a student.
Hejust used alittle desk light, 
Stearns said. It gave the office 
this monastic cell atmosphere. It 
was very charming.
I skipped class last Tuesday so 
I could go talk to him for an hour, 
said Andrew Thompson, a senior 
double majoring in philosophy 
and industrial design.
He showed me a picture of 
Monets studio outside of Paris. 
He said, You!! live a long time. 
Youll go there. Youll do that, 
wont you? He was always saying 
things like that. I feel vulnerable 
without him in the world  it is 
a loss, said Thompson 
Some students remembered 
Schoenwald for walking from his 
home in Highland Park to cam
pus each day, which the profes
sor credited for keeping himself 
in good health.
Besides his interest in the arts, 
Schoenwald was a devoted stu
dent of the history of Judaism, 
and delighted in discussing the 
topic at Passover services in his 
home. He also helped Hunt Li
brary expand its collection on 
Jewish history.
The professors most popular 
class was Society and the Arts, 
which examined how the arts, 
music, philosophy and music af
fect ways of thinking.
His creativity showed through 
as he asked students to write 
papers as if they were Beethoven, 
or write a dialogue between them
selves and Freud.
He was challenging. He 
wanted his students to dig deeper, 
and this frustrated some people,
said Topol. He wascontroversial 
because he liked to rouse peoples 
emotionshe liked to m ake them 
angry so he could make them 
think. Any student who had him 
is really lucky  whether they 
know it or not.
He taught students that there 
is more than one way to learn 
something art, music, history, 
psychology ... it is all tied to
gether, said Thompson. He 
pulled this University together. 
We needed that.
As with most master teachers, 
I dont think any of us under
stood wb$ Schoenwald was such 
a good teacher, said Stearns.
Ive had many former students 
tell me he was the most significantfaculty member they encoun
tered at CMU, he said.
Schoenwald earned his bach
elor of arts degree from Syracuse
University in 1947 and hisMasters and Ph.D. from HarvardUniversity in 1948 and 1952 re
spectively. Before coming to Car
negie Mellon in 1964, he taught 
at Bowdoin College, WesleyanUniversity, and MassachusettsInstitute of Technology, where 
he helped expand the universitys 
humanities program in the early 
1960s.
Schoenwald was a member of 
Dor Hadash congregation of 
Squirrel Hill. He is survived by 
his wife Audrey Stearns 
Schoenwald; two sons, Michael 
S. of New York City and Jonathan 
M. of Palo Alto, CA. ; and a brother, 
Donald, of New York. Funeral 
services were held this morning 
at Schugar Funeral Home on 
Centre Avenue. Schoenwald was 
buriedin West View Cemetery of 
Rodef Shalom Congregation.
CMU may join PATs U-Zone project next spring
Corrections/Clarifications...
An editing error in last weeks Yard reopens with minor 
glitches may have caused confusion. The Yard still has Frenchbread pizza. Only menu items that were made at The Corner 
Oven in Morewood are no longer available.
In addition, the SDC Clippership Dance was not scheduled for 
Homecoming, as an editorial implied.
The Tartan corrects allknown errors of fact. If you know of such 
an error, please contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief'Lauren Heinz.
U-ZONE, from page 1
ity is actively investigating an arrangement with CMU.
We will certainly be open to looking at other opportunities, she 
said. Were open for other cooperative agreements.
Binstock said one plan submitted by PAT to CMU in late June was 
rejected because it was far too expensive. [The cost] was in the 
hundreds of thousands of dollars. He cited a high yearly increase in 
the original proposal as another impediment.
We dont want to enter into a contract that, down the road a year 
or two from now, would cause undue financial hardship to the 
university and to our students, said LaPaglia.
Binstock said that the negotiations are complicated for a number 
of reasons. For one thing, he said, [PAT] would not want to structure 
a program with Carnegie Mellon where the publics perception was 
that we at Carnegie Mellon were getting something better than the 
public.
In addition, negotiations were delayed this summer while two PAT 
vehicle accidents were investigated by the authority. Binstock called 
that delay unfortunate, but it was uncontrollable.
Unlike the Pitt-PAT demonstration project, Binstock said CMU 
wants to negotiate a long term contract from the start.
Many students, I know, make choices about where they live on 
campus based upon transportation to a campus, he said. We want 
to make certain that we give students the opportunity to select offcampus places to live that are on the Port Authority bus lines or else 
its not an advantage to the student.
Several key issues have been agreed upon. We have agreed on 
what the routes should looks like [and] what buses are included in 
this agreement, he said. Weve agreed to the base cost of the 
program.
If both sides agree on a plan during the October 9 negotiation 
session, CMU students could be getting a ride on PAT busses by 
showing IDs as" early as mid-November. Binstock noted that it 
might take until the beginning of the spring semester before the 
plan is'actually implemented.
While a deal with PAT busses will allow many off-campus 
students to reach their classes, CMU has no plans to cut the current 
CMU operated, shuttle. Our shuttle runs north to south where as 
the Port Authority is running east and west primarily, said 
LaPaglia. We certainly would not eliminate the Carnegie Mellon 
shuttle because it is providing service to our students who have 
been selecting where they are living based upon the shuttle routes.
Crime and Incident Report
9/17 LOUD PARTY, 12:05 am. Four 
officers responded to a report of a loud 
party on Roselawn Terrace. As the offic, ers approached the area, they heard 
. someone yell get the beer off the porch.  
The officers saw beer cans, beer bottles 
and beer cups there.
Ahouse resident came forward to speak 
with the officers, and was summarily 
issued a citation for use of alcohol out
side on University property. The officers 
then told the resident that if the music 
was not turned down, they would break 
up the party.
9/17 DISORDERLY CONDUCT,
5:58 pm. After respondingto a fire alarm 
in Welch hall, an officer was informed by 
a Pittsburgh firefighter that it was the 
second alarm for the week in that room. 
The officer asked the residents of the 
floor who were outside if any of them 
lived in the room. When one came for
ward, the officer told the group that if 
there was another alarm, the residents 
of the room would be issued a citation.
One of the residents became sarcastic,. 
mocking the officer, and all of the resi
dents started to laugh. The officer asked 
the resident if he thought he was funny. 
The resident laughed, so the officer is
sued him a citation for disorderly con
duct. The resident cited does not live in 
the room where the fire alarm origi
nated.
9/18 GAS LEAK, 6:12 pm. An officer 
respondedtoareportedgas leak in High
lander. The officer located the gas leak 
by the hissing sound. The leak was lo
cated behind the Hot off the Grill 
counter.
9/18 HARASSMENT, 9:20 am. A 
CMU student was issued a citation for 
disorderly conduct for ignoring a gym
desk attendant. When the desk atten
dant asked the student to produce his 
ID, he refused, although he did produce 
it for the officer. The officer told the 
student that the desk attendant was 
only doing his job, and that he should 
cooperate with desk attendants.
9/19 THEFT, 2:21 am. A custodian 
who had been cleaning the Student Cen
ter walked into the Campus Police Of
fice and reported that his vacuum cleaner 
had been stolen. He had left it in the 
hallway while he emptied a trashcan, 
and when he returned, the vacuum was 
gone.
9/21 PHONE HARASSMENT ,11:30 
pm. A CMU student said that she re
ceived of pair of strange phone calls that 
eveningfrom a male. When she answered 
the phone, the male said Sorry to wake 
you. She told the caller, whom she
thought was an acquaintance, that she 
hadnt been asleep.
The male then said that he wished she 
had been, because he had been thinking 
about her. He said ,I think of you, I 
want you, oh the things I could do to 
you. She then realized that it was not 
her friend, and hung up. Campus Police 
advised her to keep a record of all future 
calls.
9/21 INJURY, 2:37 am. A student 
was working on a project in the College 
of Fine Arts when she burned her fin
gers with a glue gun.
EMS wrapped her fingers with gauze, 
and an officer transported her to Presbyterian-University Hospital.
9/22 FALSE ALARM, 1:30 pm. Offic
ers responded to a fire alarm in the 
Building D shower room.
They determined that steam had set
the alarm off when a man had taken a 
shower.
The Tartan prints the Crime and Inci
dent Report under the follwing guide
lines:
Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior to 
release.
 Only three people on The Tartan staff 
see the reports: the Editor-iji-Chief, the 
News Editor, and the staffwriter who 
types the report.
All personal names ofcomplaintants, 
victims, and suspects, and fraternity 
names, are omitted from the printed re
port. Ethnic descriptions and other per
sonal details are given only in the context 
of a complete description.
Not every incident that occurs on cam
pus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
RICK RIKOSKI
Altera Corporation, located In 
the heart of Silicon Valley in 
beautiful Northern California, 
has set the pace from the 
start in high-performance, high 
density programmable logic 
devices and associated 
computer-aided engineering. 
(CAE) logic development tools. 
We're growing and have 
plenty of seats still available 
for EE/CS graduates.
We will be conducting on 
campus interviews Thursday 
and Friday October 5 & 6.
Or you may also send a 
resume to: Altera Corporation, 
Human Resources, College - 
MS 1101, Attn: Heelie Drury, 
2610 Orchard Parkway,
San Jose, CA 95134-2020.
Fax: (408) 435-5065.
World Wide Web Address: 
http://www.altera.com. E-mail: 
hdrury@altera.com. An equal 
opportunity employer.
Career opportunities 
at J.P. Morgan
for Carnegie Mellon students interested in
Audit Plus
Equity Research Associate 
Ciobal Technology and Operations
Please plan to attend our 
information presentation on 
Thursday; October 5 
6:00-5:00 pm
Mudge Lounge, Mudge Hall 
All majors welcome
JP Morgan
Internet li(tp:/Av\v>v.jpinorgan.coni
J.P. Morgan is an equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

Open for
business
Started Your Job Search Yet?
t's your brain.
Incredibly malleable.
Infinitely versatile.
Awesomely inventive.
At Andersen Consulting,. 
we want to keep it that way. So 
we challenge it with a stimulating 
variety of assignments. Develop it with 
an average of over 170 hours of advanced 
training per year. Reward it with advance
ment. And support it with the resources 
of 22,000 professionals operating across 47 
countries. At Andersen Consulting, we 
always keep you in mind.
 1993 Andersen Consulting
Andersen Consulting is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
AndersenConsulting
ARTHUR ANDIJRSHN & CO., S.C.
Either way... its a jungle out there!
Come and see us for some tips on...
Navigating the Job Search Jungle
Date: October 3, 1995 
Time: 9:30 am - 4:30 pm 
Place: Drill Deck in the Student Center 
(Old Navy Building)

---------------------------------------------------

arn aegieM l oegMnUvn snttyM 'MvSnguvid l C Nwiypng c1199
Want to add meaning to your 
dull, dreary life? Want to win 
friends and influence people? 
Write for News.
Stop by Student Center 104 or 
call X8-2111 for details.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's student newspaper since 1906.
Union returns; first 
issue this week
UNION, from page 1
sidy increase. Brian Mueller, 
Senates F&R chair, said that 
the committee has granted the 
Union's staff a year to prove 
themselves, before F&R will 
consider increasing the subsidy. 
Mueller said the committee 
wants to make sure the paper 
continues to publish and that 
they have an available staff.
Mueller said the committee 
wont look at them again until 
budget time to see how they 
perform.
Ikeda, who has responsibil
ity for the production of the 
paper, began recruiting a new 
staff at this falls Activities Fair. 
The first batch of articles was 
submitted last Friday.
Ikeda said that the paper will 
only publish six issues this year 
because we have to deal with a 
tremendous loss in budget.
I dont understand the need 
for the trial basis, he said. 
There needs to be more than 
just one voice on campus. 
Ikeda said the Union is a di
verse forum, where students 
and staff can express their view
points and write about issues 
that may be too broad for regu
lar news or feature coverage.
The diversity is reflected in 
the first issue, which should 
appear this week. While stu
dent work dominates the issue, 
English professor David Demarest also has a piece in it.
Community attractions like 
the Andy Warhol museum have 
also expressed interest in get
ting covered by the paper.
The paper plans to print 4,000 
copies of each issue and distrib
ute them in bundles around 
campus. They also have what 
Young calls an alumni net
work of people who have of
fered their help and are inter
ested in subscriptions.
They are hoping to publish 
an issue every three to four 
weeks, and they are interested 
in publishing on-line.
Young would also like to train 
someone to prepare next years 
budget.
He said he wants the paper to 
put any memories of disorgani
zation and weeks of not being 
able to publish behind it.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
SDC postpones Clipper trip; tickets go on sale in October
Student Dormitory Council postponed its annual Clippership 
Dance, which was scheduled for last Friday, said SDC programming 
chair Chelsea Marnell.
It wasnt well-organized, and we didnt have enough time to get 
it together, said Marnell.
A lot of work had to be done to get ready for the event, and the 
September 29 date crept up on the dance organizers. It was a matter 
of getting back into business for the school year, she said.
SDC hadnt begun selling the tickets yet, which cost $15 per 
person. Marnell said that the dance would be postponed about a 
month, to the last week in October. The new date is expected to be 
announced soon.
Australian designer named 
Nierenberg professor
Tony Golsby-Smith, an innovator in communications design, has 
been named Nierenberg professor in the Design Department for the 
1995 fall semester. A native of Australia, Golsby-Smith is an 
international leader in improving communication.
During the past year, along with colleagues from Carnegie Mellons 
Design and English departments, Golsby-Smith played a key role in 
the Australian governments ambitious project to rewrite in clear 
language its vast and complex Income Tax Act. The process involved 
introducing graphic elements, improving structure, analyzing for 
readability, and providing a prototype for the legislative design 
process. The project has led to further work for Golsby-Smith in 
legislative design, particularly in exploring the role that diagrams 
can play in communicating complex information.
[ As the Nierenberg professor, Golsby-Smith will teach two seminars and deliver the annual Nierenberg Lecture on Design, which 
will be open to the public.
The Nierenberg Chair of Design was established by Theodore D. 
Nierenberg, a founder of Dansk International Designs and a trustee 
of Carnegie Mellon. The chair is held by an individual who has 
achieved national or international prominence in design or a designjsrelated field, has contributed significantly to the practice or study of 
ildesign, and who wishes to share his or her knowledge and experience 
jwith students and faculty at Carnegie Mellon.
Pittsburgh students make sandwiches for homeless
| PB JAM, a community service project sponsored by Hillel and a 
[grant from the Cummings Foundation, will take place today on the 
campuses of Carnegie Mellon, the University of Pittsburgh and 
Duquesne University.
I Members of the university communities will make peanut butter 
fand jelly sandwiches, which will be distributed to homeless shelters 
[and soup kitchens around Pittsburgh. Participants may make as
many or as few sandwiches as they wish.
PB JAM is taking place the day before the Jewish holiday Yom 
Kippur. Yom Kippur is a day of atonement and a day in which it is 
traditional to remember those less fortunate.
ECE sets date for annual Hamerschlag lecture
The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineerings second 
annual Hamerschlag Distinguished Lecture will take place on Tues
day, October 10. E.A. Sack, chief executive officer of Zilog, Inc., will 
give a presentation titled, The Technologist, the Lawyer, the Poli
tician and the Businessperson, at 4 pm in the Scaife Hall Audito
rium. Sack is a recipient of the departments alumni award for his 
outstanding contribution to the electrical engineering profession. 
The award was created to recognize deserving individuals and to 
highlight careers in electrical and computer engineering to inspire 
students. The lecture is open to the public.
English department releases Visiting Writers list for fall
The English Department has released the schedule for the fall 
1995 Visiting Writers Series. It includes performance poets and 
readings, many with connections to western Pennsylvania:
Oct. 6, Two of Our Own  Marcus Cafagna and Kim Edwards: 
Cafagna and Edwards, visiting professors in the Carnegie Mellon 
writing program, will read from their works. A novelist and short 
story writer, Edwards has had her work included in Best American 
Short Stories. She will read from The Secrets of a Fire King, 
coming in December 1996 from W.W. Norton. Cafagna will read from 
his first book of poetry, The Broken World, being published this fall 
by the University of Illinois Press as part of the National Poetry 
Series.
Oct. 19, PoetDzvinia Orlowsky: Orlowsky, who was nominated for 
a Pushcart Prize this year, will read from new works and A Handful 
of Bees, published in 1994 by the Carnegie Mellon University Press. 
Her poems appear in a number of publications, including the Boston 
Literary Review and Ploughshares. Orlowsky is a contributing editor 
to Agni and The Marlboro Review, and is the founding editor of Four 
Way Books, an independent publisher established in 1992.
Oct. 26, Music and Lyrics by Performance Poets Dougherty and 
Liebler: Dougherty and Liebler promise an unusual evening of 
poetry that might resemble a warm-up for the presidential race. 
These performance poets will give a display of this art form, de
scribed as a physical mix of politics, lyrics and color performances.
Nov. 10 Pulitzer Prize nominated poet and essayist David McKain: 
Western Pennsylvanian David McKain will read from Spellbound: 
Growing up in Gods Country, which was nominated for a Pulitzer 
Prize and National Book Award.
All readings are held at 8 p.m. in the Adamson Wing. Readings are 
free and open to the public.
For more information, contact English professor Hilary Masters at 
x8-6443.
Theirs. Ours.
Small tech firms say you have to give up cushy benefits to work on the hot stuff. Its not until you hire on with no extras, that you find your cozy 
place of employment isnt brewing up any big projects on the front burner.. .or the back. At Oracle, you not only get an opportunity to work with the 
universes largest supplier of software for information management, you also get to choose from a stellar array of benefits. We offer you six medical, two 
dental and two vision plans. There's premier life, auto & homeowners insurance and legal services. Plus tax, investment, savings & stock plans that
complement our excellent work/family balance options. And that's no java.
BS/MS CS/EE. You can become a: Software Developer  Technical Analyst  Consultant  Product Manager 
Learn more about Oracle at our INFORMATION SESSION on October 24. Refreshments provided.
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: jobs@us.oracle.com / FAX: 415-506-1073 / PHONE: 415-506-6991 
For additional information, visit our web site at: http://www.oracle.com/info/hr/recruiting.html. Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.
ORACLE
Enabling the Information Age

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University2 October 1995
Time is money puts 
student safety at risk
Slow down, you move too fast. 
Youve got to make the moment 
lastjust kicking down the cobble
stones, looking for fun and feel
ing groovy.  Simon and 
Garfunkel.
While this may not seem like a 
pressing political issue, we feel it 
is important to remind students 
of the need to be cautious when 
crossing the street. Too many of 
us are rushing to get to class, 
rushing to the library, rushing to 
a computer cluster  running 
blindly across the intersection of 
Forbes and Morewood without 
thinking of the busses, taxies 
and crazed drivers whizzing by 
at speeds exceeding 40 mph. Stu
dent killed on way to class. could 
be the top headline on our next 
issue  after all, it made head
lines last week when a Pitt stu
dent got hit by a PAT bus while 
crossing the street. Considering 
the number of students who 
make the mad dash on this cam
pus, learning to cross the street 
may be a bigger concern than 
you thought.
Of course when youre late for 
an exam you sometimes must 
take the risk, but how hard is it 
to wait the extra two minutes for 
the WALK sign? How many times 
have you watched someone run 
across the street amid screech
ing brakes and thought, Boy, 
was that stupid. How many 
times have you been in a car or 
on a bike and nearly hit a person
who made a run for it just as the 
traffic light signaled for you to 
proceed?
But whats the rush? The inter
section could be a great place to 
meet people, stare at the Cathe
dral of Learning or buy a news
paper  but it isnt. Why are we 
all in such a hurry  has the 
information age and the capi
talization of time finally gotten 
to us? Perhaps people really be
lieve in clichs such as time is 
money. Students running across 
the street with a cup of coffee in 
one hand, and a bagel in their 
mouth are a common sight. This 
is unhealthy; not only does it 
cause heartburn, but it causes 
stress. Not everything can run 
as fast as a Power PC. Take your 
time  sit down under a tree to 
drink your coffee while the 
weather is still nice and save 
running for the track. In your 
frantic rush to get to campus, 
you may get so wrapped up in 
your own little world that you 
forget to look both ways.
It would not be so horrible to 
just stand there out on the side
walk for a little while longer, tak
ing in the scenery, talking with 
friends, reading about current 
events, or just waiting. Hunt li
brary will still be there, the com
puter clusters arent going away, 
and your professors, well, theyve 
got office hours in case you miss 
something truly vital. Getting hit 
by a bus cant be that fun.
TAKING MiTTK$ INT HIS OWN HANPS, WILFRED PEV1SES A SAfER WAY fb* 5TPN1. T OP& FORBES...
on6 rAwueni-riw
Letters to the Editor
Article ignores 
egrets, grey wolf
Editor:
There are lots of 
things that I could 
pick apart in Jon Or
ris muddled, antievironmental rant,
l SE
Letter to the Editor
but Ill stick to just one.
I do not believe that the spotted owl 
should be sacrificed to the lumber indus
try.
I agree that the freedom to do business, 
like any other freedom, should not be 
restricted.
But there is a difference between envi
ronmentalism and conservationism.
Perserving Americas natural gifts is a 
tradition that goes back to Theodore 
Roosevelt and beyond.
Our resources do not have to be ex
ploited to be useful. Having unspoiled 
seahorses and old growth forests, the 
grey wolf and the bald eagle, does im
prove our quality of life.
I wouldnt want it any other way.
Rich Lubell
Senior
English
Inquiry central in 
bboard debate
Editor:
I would like to offer 
a warning to the par
ents of this years 
freshman class: 
Carnegie Mellon is a
Forum invites diverse 
community opinions
November, and once again last month, 
that bboard censorship has no place at a 
university. This is also the position of 
Stanford, MIT, the University of Wiscon
sin, Iowa State, and many other institu
tions.
As our administration wrestles with 
this issue, your child has an opportunity 
to observe firsthand a struggle between 
principles and expedience. Will CMU fi
nally stand behind its written policies 
protecting freedom of expression and free
dom of inquiry? Or will its administration 
continue to give top priority to avoiding 
another titillating cybersex article in 
the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette?
Urge your child to follow this real-life 
ethical drama by attending the Faculty 
Senate meetings and participating in 
CAFE, the Coalition for Academic Free
dom of Expression. And encourage him or 
her to take a peek at the banned bboards. 
Eroticism is a healthy and enjoyable part 
of life, and some of these images are quite 
beautiful. But to be fair, most of the dis
puted material is only mediocre, and some 
is provocative or disturbing.
As adults, we must honestly acknowl
edge this truth about human nature: dis
turbing images exist because some people 
want to look at them. When persons on 
this campus are curious about any aspect 
of human nature, including the complexi
ties of human sexuality, they have the 
right to investigate and educate them
selves.
That right may not be abridged for 
specious reasons. CMUs faculty, staff, 
and students are resolved to defend it.
David S. Touretzky 
Senior Research Scientist 
Advisor to CAFE 
CS
TOC chairperson commends story
Newspapers in general are rela
tively predictable  theres the 
news sections, the sports sec
tions, and the comics, usually 
along with the living and enter
tainment sections. Often there is 
very little opportunity to respond 
to what we see in print. At The 
Tartan, we find a lot of value in 
the exchange and in the frequent 
clash of ideas. The Forum pages 
are our way of fostering a free 
exchange of ideas, so we try to 
provide a spectrum of opinions to 
allow you, our readers, to be the 
judges.
To that end, youll find the fol
lowing types of pieces in Forum:
Editorials always appear in the 
left-most columns of the first 
Forum page. They are unsigned 
because they represent a con
sensus opinion of The Tartans 
editorial board.
While we believe our editorials 
offer sensible, accurate commen
tary, please feel free to disagree 
with us  we dont have a mo
nopoly on the truth. As a matter 
of fact, we would love to know 
what you think. An excellent 
means to do this is by writing a 
Letter to the Editor.
Letters to the Editor may be 
submitted by anybody, although 
when space gets tight we will 
favor letters from members of 
the University community. As 
readers, you should realize that 
opinions represented in a letter 
are those of the author and not of 
The Tartan. All letters are sub
ject to editing for size and gram
mar (letters should not exceed
500 words). But we never edit a 
letter for content.
Of course, we reserve the right 
to reject letters that we feel are 
libelous, obscene, or incoherent. 
But well be glad to discuss any 
letter with the author and see if 
we can reach a compromise. How
ever, in order to have such a 
discussion, we need to know who 
you are. We are willing to with
hold the authors name from a 
Letter to the Editor, but our Editor-in-Chief does need to know 
who wrote it. Please dont send 
us anonymous letters  it just 
frustrates us because we have no 
way to contact you, and it annoys 
you because your letter doesnt 
get published.
Persons Opinion is just that  
the opinion of randomly polled 
persons, usually students at 
CMU, on a different question or 
concern each week. The people 
in Persons Opinion have no af
filiation with The Tartan, and 
their opinions are in no way re
lated to The Tartan.
Columns are consistently-ap
pearing opinion pieces presented 
by individuals who are members 
of the CMU community. We are 
looking to diversify the Forum 
section and encourage students, 
faculty and staff to write a col
umn on something which inter
ests them. Opinions in these col
umns are those of the columnist 
and not of The Tartan.
Again, feel free to disagree with 
them. Getting feedback lets us 
know that you are reading and 
thinking about The Tartan.
Editor:
Id like to thank 
The Tartan for its 
coverage of the Tech
nical Opportunities 
Conference and for
i SEDLotten to Ih Edito/
Letter to the Editor
university. As you well know, universi
ties are neither finishing schools nor trade 
schools. They are a special place in our 
society where truth and free inquiry are 
the most sacred things.
Within their borders, delicate sensi
bilities, respect for authority, and adher
ence to social norms all take a back seat 
to unflinching honesty. One of the unique 
things universities offer society is a fo
rum where embarrassing facts may be 
stated, unpopular voices heard, and dis
turbing images viewed. To moral 
authoritarians, universities are danger
ous places.
The ongoing flap on our campus over 
censorship of sexually explicit bulletin 
boards illustrates the confusion that re
sults when a university administration 
forgets its obligations. For the past year,
CMUs administration has proffered ev
ery imaginable excuse for caving in to 
threats of adverse publicity over a bunch 
of erotic photographs. They raised legal 
bogeymen, quickly shot down by the 
ACLU, the Electronic Frontier Founda
tion, and First Amendment scholar 
Frederick Schauer. (Child pornography, 
whose mere possession is a felony, is 
emphatically NOT the issue here.) They 
made a half-hearted attempt at politically-correct paternalism, illustrated by 
professor Erwin Steinbergs now legend
ary remark about the need to protect 
women, children, animals, and the like.
They even tried a taste test.
In two marathon sessions, members of 
a special bboard committee viewed hun
dreds of sexually explicit images culled 
from a dozen bulletin boards and flashed 
one by one on a computer screen. The 
committee voted on which of these sex 
bboards were tolerable and which too 
awful to retain. But it refused to explain 
the reasoning behind those decisions. Per
haps its members are simply unable to 
articulate their prejudices. It would be Edmund LoPresti 
difficult to do so without embarrassment, Senior 
Im sure. ECE
The Faculty Senate made clear last 1995 TOC Chairperson
rarking  University Center  Greeks  Student Involvment  Student Senate  Athletic Facilities  Womens Issues 0 Enrollment  Student Health  Banking  Out of Order  Politics  Funding  Football Field  Student Affairs  Constitution  Construction  Overcrowding  Contras 0 Housing # Sororities Charities  Gymnasium  Dining Service  Environment  Recycling 0 Exercise  Congress  Middle Sast  Weather # Advising  Sex Weeks  Alcohol  Drugs  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Woody Allen  The Muppets  Mail  MMire2^d\rtjsn *-ftiscar^CriHTOf All-Nighters  Grant's Sex Life Ishtar II  Hair  Mousse # HiKair^fctlfcfe 0 felB I*s^nWSkS^rch  WRCT 0 Computers 0 llassifiedResearch  DC-1 Os  H^^Yolume^ Bm*H5ii^FunalTTg  ^udentAffairs  Construction Overcrowding  Housing  Sororities  Charities  Dining Service 0 Environment  Hostages  Elecycling  Congress  Middle East  Weather  Advising  Sex  Geeks  Alcohol  Yellow Duck Journalism  Gay Rights # Drugs  Budget  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  The Flag  Woody Allen Funding  Student Affairs 0 Mayor  Construction  Track Field  Overcrowding 0 Constitution  Activities Board  Gymnasium  Housing  Sororities  Charities  Dining Service  Environment 0
Letter to the Editor
their compliments on its organization.
Id also like to commend their sugges
tion of a similar job fair for arts and 
humanities majors and offer some com
ments on the subject.
The Technical OpportunitiesConfer
ence is not organized by the University, 
but by two student groups.
These are the Society of Women Engi
neers (SWE) and the Institute of Electri
cal and Electronics Engineers (IEEE, 
pronounced I-Triple-E when were being 
formal, pronounced phonetically and 
loudly when problem sets are due)
Similarly, a humanities job fair would 
probably have to be organized by a group 
of students, although the University 
would probably be willing to offer assis
tance.
If any students are interested in orga
nizing such a job fair, I would be happy to 
offer advice from my experience with the 
TOC.
Finally, Id like to acknowledge some of 
the many people who helped the TOC 
come together this year.
These include Jen Myers, assistant 
chair, Rachael Hopkins and Angela 
Snyder, SWE and IEEE presidents, Nancy 
Bickney of biomedical engineering, and 
especially Hilda Diamond, SWE advisor.
Student Senator 
speaks, promises 
communication
STUDENT
SENATE
By Eduardo Gonzalez
This is the first column that 
will appear on behalf of Stu
dent Senate and it is fitting 
that the public relations 
chairman be the first one to 
write it. This column, and the 
ones that follow, will explain 
what the committees are do
ing and what the objectives of 
the committees are. Every 
other week a different Sena
tor will write for this column, 
explaining issues that are 
going on in Senate or in the 
committees.
This week we will talk about 
the public relations commit
tee we want it to be a facili
tator between students and 
the Senate. It should be the 
voice of Senate but that is 
easier said than done  it is 
not always easy to contact 
students., One of the ideas 
that the public relations com
mittee has is to use email to 
reach everyone on campus. 
This causes junk mail but it 
would only be used once or 
twice a semester. Another 
way the public relations com
mittee is achieving its goal of 
being the voice of Senate is 
through this column  we 
are dedicated to informing the 
campus about Senate.
For the fall elections, the 
public relations committee 
will make known to the whole 
campus who is running and 
what there platform is. Also, 
I will guarantee that the voter 
turnout will increase every 
semester as long as I am the 
public relations chairman  
for the two semesters that I 
have been chairman, voter 
turnout has increased.
In the future, Senate plans 
to get its name better recog
nized; this is being accom
plished by working closer with 
Student Affairs and other 
areas of the administration. 
Furthermore, Senate wants 
to improve! its image which is 
something that the public 
relations committee will be 
working on  we dont want 
to be considered an ineffec
tive legislative body.
Senate is an effective legis
lative body, there are prob
lems sometimes, as in any 
organization, but Senate 
works to improve the quality 
of life in CMU. Finally, our 
motto for this year will be, 
Senate and you, working to
gether.
Any ideas or comments 
please feel free to email me at 
eg2h.

---------------------------------------------------

arn aegieM l oegMnUvn snttyM 'MvSnguvid l C Nwiypng c1196
Environment bashing debunks world problems
Matt Ball
Easily the most thoughtful and 
insightful tome of our time, a 
column last week finally had the 
guts to debunk those fiendish, 
anti-human environmentalists. 
While the points made were so 
logical and clear on their own, 
they are of such importance as to 
bear repeating.
The first wisdom is that the 
ozone hole is a natural phenom
ena that has nothing whatso
ever to do with the CFCs put into 
the atmosphere by people. It is of 
no significance that the basic 
physics of chlorinated fluorocarbons shows that they destroy 
vast amounts of ozone, or that a 
reduction in stratospheric ozone
has been observed. Rush 
Limbaugh says that CFCs can
not cause harm because they were 
created to help man! What better 
science do you need?
But those environmentalists 
have forced innocent politicians 
to put into place international 
protocols to faze-out CFCs. This 
horror means we are having to 
come up with replacement chemi
cals for refrigerants, an exercise 
certainly beyond human inge
nuity.
Because of this hysteria, people 
are roasting to death for lack of 
cheap freon. This is certainly not 
because of global warming, an
other absurd anti-human con
spiracy. It is irrelevant that, ac
cording to basic physics, pump
ing carbon dioxide, methane, and 
other radiatively-active gasses 
into the atmosphere increases
radiative forcing. Winter still 
comes, so there must not be any 
global wanning!
Yet the public frenzy has led to 
sweeping laws being foisted upon 
our economy, wreaking cataclys
mic chaos!
It is indeed unfortunate that 
our public watchdog was not given 
more column space last week to 
debunk the myth of pollution, the 
most insidious plot hatched by the 
vile environmentalists to exter
minate humanity. What other 
campaign has led to greater eco
nomic ruin? It is insulting and 
ignoble to deny us the necessity of 
living in Love Canal, or to breathe 
the air of last-centurys Pitts
burgh, or to be doused with DDT.
Luckily, we advanced CMUers 
are now aware that the Endan
gered Species Act is nothing more 
than an affront to evolution itself!
If evolution is intended to pro
ceed through the use of bulldoz
ers, blacktop, and burnings, who 
are we to pass laws to stop it? It 
is the ultimate degradation of 
the human spirit to say that we 
cannot destroy anything and ev
erything that gets in the way of 
our expansion plans. If there 
are some demented and per
verted humans who like na
ture and dont want to live in a 
paved world with no other (non
food) species, then these freaks 
should go extinct along with 
their pathetic, maladapted furry 
friends. It is our highest calling, 
our destiny to dominate and 
destroy!
Finally, I would like to reiter
ate the outrage we should all 
feel to the sacrifice of human 
lives for those of animals.
Who cares if some God-forsaken owls live in the last few 
stands of old-growth forest? We 
are talking about a few weeks 
worth of work for clear-cutters! 
Dont these environmentalists 
know this is a matter of life and 
death?
The way we pander to animals is 
obscene. We shelter billions of 
them in cages, feed them the ma
jority of the food in this country, 
yet people still complain! Free 
the animals! Dont eat animals! 
Whine, whine, whine! So what, we 
have to murder and devour them? 
If we didnt, they would take over 
the world! Unlike we moral, el
evated beings, they are just ani
mals to be slaughtered. Its not 
like they suffer or desire to live.
It is high time we squash this 
concern with the environment and 
get back to what is important  
money.Threat of Perots party overestimated by media
Jame^teganek
Recently Ross Perot has come out with 
the declaration that he was going to fund 
a new political party  the infamous 
Third Party. This has been a buzzword 
for a while now with many Americans 
being quoted as favoring the creation of 
such a party.
I find this interesting for two reasons: 
one, there is already a horde of parties out 
there, but they just dont get any atten
tion; two, under the current system, a 
third party (unless it addresses an over
whelming issue hot faced by the other 
parties) doesnt really accomplish any
thing.
Perot has advocated the founding of the 
Independence Party, which will advo
cate most of the notions he ran on in 1992. 
Of course I often wonder about his mo
tives, since most of the reforms he cam
paigned for were included in the Contract
with America. He was asking for term 
limits and elimination of the deficit, among 
other things. While the Republicans 
couldnt get the first past some of their 
recalcitrant members, the vast majority 
voted for them. Mind you, no Democrats 
voted for them.The balanced budget has 
become a keystone of present efforts on 
Capital Hill. The concept is no longer a 
simple plan of reducing the deficit, but 
rather its elimination. Perot also argued 
for a government which works with busi
ness rather than hindering it. Well, con
sidering all the hits the Republicans have 
taken about favoring business, I cant 
imagine he has any trouble with them on 
that.
Just about anyone who paid attention 
to the 1992 election realizes that Perot 
was a spoiler. He took more votes from 
Bush that Clinton and never had a chance 
to win. It quite apparent that Perot is not 
satisfied with Clintons performance at 
present, yet I dont think hes admitted to 
being the catalyst by which the election 
went the way it did. My difficulty with his 
present plan is that its just going to be an 
arrangement by which Clinton is re
elected.
Lets face reality. Unless a whole bunch 
of things change, a third party is not going 
to win the general election. It can only act 
as a spoiler. This new party doesnt offer 
anything new or even a better place to 
stand. It would appear to me that this 
attempt to start a new party is just a 
successor to Perots first big ego triphis 
presidential campaign. If, in fact, a third 
party could come up with an position on 
an issue which was of great importance 
not held by a major party, it could come to 
be relevant. This is how the GOP was 
formed. The truthis, though, that there is 
no such issue today (except maybe the 
War on Drugs where the Libertarians 
have a corner on opposition)
As I said earlier, there are real third 
parties out there. The one which always 
springs to mind for me is the Libertarian 
Party. Their current candidate is Howard 
Browne, who, as libertarians tend to be, is 
quite popular on the net. He is an investor 
who has made quite a name for himself. 
The Libertarian Party advocates a 
minimalist federal government. They be
lieve freedom is the most important of
human concerns since people are the ones 
best suited to solving their own problems. 
They are the real free market advocates. 
They also are pro-choice, anti-drug war, 
and anti-welfare state. Funny, they tend to 
sound a bit like me, but then they also are 
rather isolationist, which is a fault I cannot 
forgive. Also I tend to face reality and 
support candidates which are electable.
Other alternate parties include the So
cialist Party, whose title is self explana
tory; the Communist Party, yes those jok
ers still exist; the Conservative Party, which 
generally endorses the Republican candi
date; and a fair number of others. If I had a 
ballot at hand I could list them for you.
Many alternatives do exist for your pe
rusal, its just that the news media, for 
some reason which I dont grasp, doesnt 
bother to cover them. Given the nature of 
our elections, the other parties amount to 
very little since it really is a two party 
system. Perots new party would be little 
different. It would merely act as a guaran
tee to re-elect the problem, rather than to 
even give an outside shot to reform.
James Stepanek is a student in MSE.
Smokers offend unsuspecting students
Now, before I get started here, 
I just want everyone to know 
that I respect your freedom to 
smoke. Okay? Good. Im not 
about to get on some soapbox 
and start preaching about the 
evils of it. Im not that kind of 
guy. Its your business.
Just dont blow it in my face.
This has happened excessively 
during the last couple of weeks, 
and I just cant stand it any
more. Often this happens just 
before I enter Doherty or Baker 
Hall because apparently there 
is this designated smoking sec
tion just outside the door on the 
stairs. Not that there are any 
signs up or anything like that. 
Apparently thats where it is and 
I have to deal with it whenever I 
go to class.
The thing about me and ciga
rette smoke is after repeated 
exposures to it I start to cough. 
This is no ordinary cough every
one is used to by now due to the 
colds running rampant on cam
pus. Its a really incessant, 
phlegm-inducing hack that 
grosses out anybodywho can hear 
it. Im not allergic to smoke, as far 
as I know, so I cant legitimately 
complain about it much. I just do 
not want to make a spectacle of 
myself in Chem class by sitting 
there going HAACK! AACK! 
AACK! HAAACK! all period. Im 
sure the professor and the other 
students would rather not have 
to hear this, either. So, I hold my 
breath when I enter the hall and 
hopefully my exposure to it is 
minimal.
But sometimes it just gets 
blown into my face and it drives 
me insane. I get all moody after 
that, and then start hitting in
animate objects.
Whats worse is that often when 
Im walking behind someone or 
some group of people, I get it 
blown into my face by the wind, 
and that really makes me mad. 
Not .only are the smokers con
spiring against me, so is Nature. 
And then they wonder Whats
his hurry? as I try to get around 
them, trying very hard not to get 
any angrier at the world.
Now, Ive noticed that smokers 
wont blow smoke in other smok
ers faces. Why is that? If theyre 
the ones who enjoy smoking so 
much, why dont they get smoke in 
their faces? Is it one of these un
written rules I keep hearing about 
more and more every day?
So please, if youre going to 
smoke, thats fine. But if you blow 
it in my face, there just might be a 
lawsuit coming back at yours some
day. Sitting up on the witness 
stand, in between the cough that 
has become permanent through
out the years, I will deliver my 
chilling tale of how the defendant 
willfully just blew it in my face 
and that is why the defendant is in 
a full body cast at the present 
time. (Gotta love our legal system, 
huh?).
Tom Harper, junior technical 
writing major, is now considering 
asking the Surgeon General to beef 
up those warnings to something 
like Smoking makes you ugly.
Lost locks destroy security
I dont mean to complain, 
nor do I want any praise for 
pointing this out, but there 
are no locks on most bath
room stalls on this campus.
Usually, urination isnt 
much of a problem. You really 
dont need much privacy, nor 
do you need to be sequestered 
away in your own little box 
while you do your business. 
But number two is a different 
matter entirely: you need to 
be alone.
Theres real danger here. 
We are on a college campus 
and anyone, from Andy 
Warhol to Holly Hunter, could 
walk in and embarass us com
pletely.
Case in point: I was rumi
nating in Baker Hall, reading 
the paper and the grafitti. 
There was no lock on the door 
(it hadbeenbroken or gnawed
off) but I felt relatively safe be
cause it was a seldom-used fa
cility. However, just as the depth 
and breadth of my ende vour was 
becoming apparent, I was stirred 
from my revelrie to find two 
eyes staring into mine. Now, he 
did not accost me, and I didnt 
feel threatened, because, after 
all, it was my territory at that 
time because I had marked it. I 
was pantsless in a stall, waiting 
for the next unwanted interlop er 
to barge in and find me cold and 
alone.
Im not saying get Masterlocks 
for the toilets. Im saying re
place the catches, bolt down the 
doors, and give us some sort of 
security during our most tender 
moments.
We need to be alone some
times, and sometimes we need 
to be completely alone. And it is 
at those, latter, times that we 
need locks on the bathroom 
stalls; not only on this campus, 
but around the world.
And do something about the 
toilet paper.
Our lives are wrought with 
many questions. From 
dreaming of a brighter fu
ture to figuring out where to 
spit, we are often faced with 
many problems. In the spirit 
of free inquiry, we asked: 
Why did you come here?
Kenon Tutein
Senior
CivE
I came here for the educa
tional oppurtunities, and it 
was close.
Zuleikha Spencer
Sophomore
Design
Nancy Ramsey 
Freshman 
Creative Writing
Neraj Tuli 
Senior
Information Systems
I had a good feeling about it. Because Im a creative writI came here for pre-college
I really liked all the trees and ing major. and was fooled into thinking it
buildings. Lots of birds, too. Ui\ was a really cool place.
And AerAes
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer 
Business Manager.........Amit Kar
News Editor.............Jason Togyer
Forum Editor...............John Biggs
Sports Co-Editors .... Paul Boothe
.............................Matthew Solltro
Features Co-Eds. Shannon Gibney
.....................Jonmichael L.T. Moy
Diversions Editor.... Eric Salzman
Acting Calendar Ed......Sharmila
Venkatasubban 
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Brockett Home
...............................Jennifer Zieserl
Dossier Lit. Ed... Adriane Seibert 
Art Co-Eds. ... Francine Gemperle
..............................Gabrien Symons
Photo Ed......Andrew McDermott
Production Mgr..............Kathy Liu
Systems Manager...........1-Ping LI
Copy Manager..............Eric Strauss
Asst. News Ed......Sameer Karim
Asst. Diversions Ed......Ena Kahn
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder
Senior Staff 
Jason Andracki, Matt Ball,
Chintan Shah
Staffwrlters 
Gil Alterovitz, Yosef Birnboim, Chris 
Cannon, Darren Chlappetta, Carey 
Clevenger, Tricia Davis, Neil 
Donnely, Gretel Gaal, Dan 
Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Heinlein, David Ko
ran, Wladimir Labeikovsky, April 
C. Moate, Angela Molloy, Suzanne 
Paddok, Sudhir Reddy, Rick 
Simmons, James Stepanek, Jes
sica Strelitz, PaulTabachneck, Bill 
Vandermaik, Dawn Wallhausen, Su
san Watson, Heather Zindle
Art
Mark Eggert, Ryan Rhoads
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Ramsey Hong, 
Jung Park, Jackson Tam, Daniel 
Yauger, Mike Yeh
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Josh Freeman, 
Gustavo Sganzerla, Maria 
Valenti, Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom
Scott Hess
Production 
Shiv Dewan, Lisa Don, Heather 
Keith, Jennifer Li, Lester Manzano, 
Elizabeth Neuman, Victor Ortega, 
Shantanu Rana
Copy
Lori Bowes, Renee Cardelll, Mimi 
Cheng, Ivor Clarke, Madhav 
Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, Win
ter Mason, Catherine Senderling, 
M. J. Wilson, Elizabeth Zambelli
Business 
Lin Dai, Patricia DiGiuseppi
Junior Staff 
Kaori Aoyanna, Diana Bartolotta, 
Steve Chamoubi, WanchingCheng, 
Lome Colon, Jaroslav Delapedraja, 
Anne Marie Devine, Neil Donnelly, 
Elias Fallon, Alexandra 
Grundeman, Michael Howard, 
Helen Huang, Alex Lewin, Sandy 
Lii, Dizzy Murphy, Kenneth 
Namchung, Kyle Oppenheim, Rick 
Rlkoskl, Dan Rosenberg, Carla 
Sereny, Minh Tran, Andrew Wang, 
Jillian Watkins, Aaron Welsberg, 
Bradley Zimmerman
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It Is a weekly newspaper pub
lished by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, at no cost to members of the Univer
sity community. It is printed by Western Pennsylva
nia Printing. Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorials 
appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Columns and political cartoons are the 
opinions of individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are 
opinions of authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily, members of the University community. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and phone 1
number for verification. Names may be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright  
1995 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 Phone: (412) 268-2111Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

ly&XtdT^S not his usual self.
You suspect the salsa.
So you call Dv. Ntisbldtt, your family vet back home.
The call is cheap.
(Too bad about the COUSUltatiOU fee.)
Life can be complicated. AT&T True Reach Savings511 is simple. Save 25% on every kind of call on 
your AT&T phone bill-direct dial, calling card, directory assistance, local toll, cellular, fax and modem - 
when you spend just $25 a month? No other plan gives you all these different ways to save**
Just call 1800 TRUE-ATT to sign up. Save on every call. Thats Your True Choice
AT&T
Your True Choice
Refers to long distance calls billed to AT&T home or A3&T Calling Card accounts. Discounts off AT&T basic rates. Certain exclusions apply Subject to billing availability Offer available to residential AT&T customers: Minimum spending requirement is per residential line. "Compared to major long distance carriers.01995 AT&T

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 90, Issue 5The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania2 October 1995
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
USC packed 
with talent
You hear the footsteps. A hundred pair of Nikes marching. The 
men of Troy are coming.
Did the desert stop them? A 
I resounding NO. Both Arizona 
and Arizona State were slammed 
by the Trojans. California, you 
say. The Golden Bears can beat 
them. If not, then Washington 
State. Not likely. Both teams 
must travel to Los Angeles to 
play the Pac-lOs greatest team.
Well, then, someone will catch 
them off-guard on the road, you 
exclaim. That wont happen ei
ther.
On October 21, the University 
of Southern California will march 
up to Notre Dame and play on 
NBC. Theyll march right out with 
an impressive victory and then 
run up and destroy the Washing
ton Huskies just before a Home
coming date with Stanford.
The week after, the Trojan pass. ing game will bombard Oregon 
State. USCs schedule is so much 
in their favor they dont even have 
to play the Pac-lOs defending 
champion, the Oregon Ducks.
The only team that seems to be 
a true obstacle is the final game 
ofthe regular season, UCLA. The 
crosstown rivals are already quite 
; upset they are not undefeated.
| They could be just the team to 
J upset Southern Cal.
Dont count on it, though. Why,
< why cant USC lose? Read on:
| USC is good: Great, even.
Whats so great about South: em Cal? Everything, to be accu
rate. They have John Robinson, a 
legend at USC and a former pro 
coach.
They are first in the nation in 
scoring defense, allowing just 
nine points per game until the 
Arizona State game. Out of 108 
teams, the Trojans are 16th in 
total defense and 15th in total 
offense.
| Evenmore impressive, USC ac
complishes this with basically 
three running backs, two quar
terbacks, and one wide.receiver, 
j  The men of Troy are so good its 
annoying; they even punt the ball 
well. Most importantly, they have 
the fewest turnovers in the na
tion, as well as no fumbles and 
just one interception.
All this means they dont lose, 
cant lose, and wont lose. To com
pare them to pro teams: Their 
offense is like the Miami Dol
phins, their defense like the Dal
las Cowboys, and they take care 
of the football like the St. Louis 
Rams. All those teams were un
defeated before Sunday, when 
Dallas and St. Louis lost.
J ; Undefeated teams tend to stay 
undefeated until they play some: one really good or just play poorly.
The only danger facing the TroI jans is the possibility that they 
will stop playing well and lose the 
intensity that has gotten them 
this far.
In the next few weeks, how: ever, the Trojans will play with 
; an added intensity to try to erase 
the blemishes on their reputa
tion. Last week, three players 
were suspended for taking money 
from pro agents. The loss of three 
players wont really hurt the 
team; Southern Cal has more tal
ent than Ed McMahons Star 
Search. The controversy will 
bring added pressure, though, 
jfud great teams play better undermore pressure.
It is important to remember 
that this is college football, 
though; the land where a teams 
greatest adversaries lie off the 
field, on some bureaucrats desk. 
While USC has won all their footFlease see USC, page 12
Tartans get first UAA 
win; lose another in OT
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
The womens soccer team split their matches over 
this past weekend of important UAA games. Sun
day, the Tartans lost a heart-breaking 1-0 match 
against the University of Rochester in a hardfought game that came down to the final minutes of 
the second overtime period, while they steamrolled
goalkeeper Lindsay Smith one-on-one. Smith 
stopped the breakaway with a sliding tackle that 
left the Rochester forward on the ground.
But the Rochester offense .did not give up, and 
quickly reapplied the pressure to the Tartan de
fense. Then, with less than five minutes remaining 
in the final overtime period, the Rochester forwards 
neatly passed the ball through CMUs defensive 
line. Rochester shot unchallenged from 20 yards 
Brandeis Friday night on their way to a 3-1 win and out, tallying the only goal of the game and giving
their first UAA victory.
In Sundays match-up, both teams ran them
selves ragged as they fought up and down the field 
for possession of the ball. Coach Ann Haggerty 
called Rochester the toughest team weve played 
so far, and it was apparent that the teams were 
very evenly matched. CMU threatened the Roches
ter defense several times, but they were unable to 
capitalize on their scoring opportunities.
Such an opportunity came late in the second half, 
as junior back Mae Hogan landed the ball in front 
ofthe net from a corner kick. Freshman midfielder 
Allison Higgins received the kick, and shot hard on
CMU their third 1-0 overtime loss in the UAA.
Haggerty said, They had some dangerous at
tacks, and so did we. Any defensive lapses that we 
had, we equally took advantage of on the other end 
[of the field]. She also said, We played well. We 
had a really focused week of practice. Our goal was 
to win both of these games this weekend, and we 
came really close to it.
This loss comes after the Tartans big 3-1 win 
over Brandeis University, another top-ranked UAA 
team whom they played Friday night.
The women took control of the ball early in the 
game and rarely gave it to Brandeis for more than 
a few minutes at a time. 
CMU set the pace early on 
as the entire offensive 
squad controlled the ball 
well in the Brandeis zone, 
allowing senior forward 
Nicole Poisson to shoot the 
ball past the keeper and 
into the back of the net 
less than 10 minutes into 
the game. Following the 
goal, both teams fought for 
possession of the ball up 
and down the field. CMU 
managed to stay on top, 
keeping the ball mostly on 
Brandeis side and break
ing up most of the Judges 
offensives before they ber 
came threatening.
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer As time ran down in the
Senior midfielder Maria Casella charges the goal as freshman forward Lauren first half, it looked like the 
DeRosset's header flies past a stunned Brandeis University goalkeeper. score would remain 1-0 
goal. The ball went past the Rochester goalkeeper, until halftime, but CMU pushed hard in the final 
only to be deflected by aRochester back playing minutes. In a beautiful passing pattern, Poisson 
near the post. passed the ball from the sideline to sophomore
As the game headed deeper into the overtime midfielder Kelsi Montgomery. Montgomery worked 
periods, Rochester seemed to take more control of the ball around a Brandeis midfielder and passed 
the ball, keeping it in the CMU defensive zone the ball through a gap in the defense. Sophomore 
despite the efforts of the Tartans to clear it. Early forward Kim Umeda, sprinting from the opposite 
in the second overtime period, a Rochester forward sideline and beating a Brandeis back, received the 
broke downfield with the ball, closely trailed by pass and neatly put the ball in the goal with about 
several CMU defenders. The forward managed to six minutes remaining in the half, 
stay ahead ofthe defense, andchallengedfreshman Please see SOCCER, page 12
Set Up
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Senior Jen Goetz sets the ball for sophomore Brittany Rutter in 
Saturdays match against crosstown rival Point Park College.
Tennis continues its winning ways
By SUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
The womens tennis team fi
nally got its chance to prove its 
dominance last weekend in the 
prestigious Rolex Tournament, 
held at William Smith College. 
Freshman Keri Mills captured 
first place in the 64-person draw 
where four players represented 
Carnegie Mellon University. 
After the tournament, the team 
won two more matches against 
Carlow and Geneva. The wins 
upped the womens record to 
nine wins and only one loss.
Mills, freshman Jillian 
Watkins, senior Miriam Huang, 
and senior Namita Amin were 
the players who went to the 
tournament. Mills said that she 
felt that the tournament was 
successful and a lot of fun.
I had fun at the tournament, 
and I felt that I played a lot of
top players near the end, said 
Mills.
Huang felt the same way 
though she felt a little disap
pointed in.her performance. 
Huang lost her first two matches 
by a slim margin. I should have 
played  better in my second 
match, she said. I had a good 
chance to win.
Huang also played with Amin 
on the doubles team. Both play
ers agreed that they were not 
used to playing with each other 
at first but they slowly became 
more comfortable as the match 
progressed on. Unfortunately, 
the two players couldnt make 
enough of a comeback to win the 
match.
Watkins also came up with a 
good performance. She won her 
first two rounds and lost in the 
third. Playing with Mills on the 
doubles team, the team captured 
Please see TENNIS, page 12
Tartans lose heartbreaker to Mariners, 20-19
By DARREN CHIAPPETTA
Tartan Staffivriter
Words cannot begin to describe 
Saturdays game between 
Carnegie Mellon and the U.S. 
Merchant Marine Academy at 
Kings Point. There were big 
plays, strange plays, amazing 
plays and everythinginbetween. 
Unfortunately, all the important 
plays went in favor of the Mari
ners, who came away with a 
stunning 20-19 victory.
This was a game Carnegie 
Mellon had to have in order to 
stay in national playoff conten
tion, but you would have never 
known it by the way the Tartans 
played. They had an extra point 
blocked, gave up a safety on one 
of the strangest plays in football 
history and had a two-point con
version pass intercepted by Kings 
Point and returned 100 yards for 
a Mariner deuce. As if all that 
wasnt enough, the Tartans 
turned the ball over seven times, 
which led to 14 of the Mariners 
20 points. In their two losses this 
season, CMU has 12 turnovers.
We just made too many mis
takes, Head Coach Rich Lackner 
said. We didnt deserve to win 
the football game.
Carnegie Mellons woes started 
on their first offensive posses
sion, when senior quarterback 
Keith Dickerson fumbled. Line
backer Ty Bachmann recovered 
for Kings Point at his own 32- 
yard line.
On third down and 18 for the 
Mariners, quarterback Todd 
Fetzer threw incomplete, but jun
ior linebacker Ray Ardire was
flagged for roughing the passer. 
The penalty gave Kings Point 15 
yards and a first down, and four 
plays later, Fetzer found a wide 
open Dave Snelling at the front 
of the end zone for a 26-yard 
touchdown pass. Mike OConnell 
kicked the extra point for a 7-0 
Mariner lead.
An interception by senior free 
safety Dave Coates earlier in 
the drive had been negated by a 
penalty.
Late in the first quarter, the 
Tartans struck back, with se
nior quarterback Dave Soltysik 
hitting sophomore halfback 
Chris Neupaver from 21 yards 
away, one of two scoring tosses 
from Soltysik to Neupaver on 
the afternoon. But junior kicker 
Frank Triggianis extra point at
tempt was blocked, keeping the
Kings Point lead at one, 7-6. 
Triggiani has had two extra points 
blocked this season.
With 1:35 left in the opening 
stanza, Coates picked off another 
Fetzer pass and returned it 15 
yards to set up the CMU offense 
at their own 48. But Neupaver, 
who has played well in place of 
injured senior Mike Mathias, 
fumbled at the Kings Point twoyard line. Jacob Hawkinson re
covered for the Mariners.
The Tartan greasy fingers con
tinued in the second quarter, as 
Soltysik and junior tight endT. J. 
Sharpe each fumbled. Sharpes 
blunder led to a 2 0-yard field goal 
by Kings Point kicker Mike 
OConnell and a 10-6 halftime 
advantage for the Mariners.
The score could have been much 
worse if not for the inspired play
of the CMU defense, which sur
rendered just 10 points in spite of 
being on the field for nearly 20 
minutes in the first half. Defen
sive coordinator Terry Bodnar 
said after the game it was the 
best the team has played all sea
son.
The offense, on the other hand, 
was largely ineffective. Unoffi
cially, the Tartans had. just 88 
total yards in the first half.
The offense doubled that out
put on their initial drive of the 
second half. Dickerson took the 
Tartans 88 yards in seven plays, 
with Neupaver picking up his 
second touchdown of the day on a 
three-yard run. Freshman Greg 
Miller came on to boot the extra 
point, and the Tartans led, 13 
10. Dickerson completed two of 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 10
Mens soccer loses twice to tough UAA opponents
By RICK SIMMONS
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens soccer team continued to 
struggle in UAA play this weekend as 
they lost to both Brandeis University 
and the University of Rochester. They 
played hard, but lowered their record 
to 4-31 and 1-3 in UAA play.
Sunday afternoon, they hosted the 
University of Rochester. Twenty min
utes into the first half, the Yellowj ackets 
scored. A Rochester midfielder burned 
the Tartan defense at midfield and 
crossed to forward Emeka Iheme, who 
placed a shot perfectly in the upper 
right comer of the net, out of the reach 
of freshman goalie Brad McNutt.
CMU came back quickly, and tied up 
the game at 30:33 in the first half. 
Sophomore midfielder Jason Buelow 
sent a balll through the Yellowj ackets
defense to freshman forward Harry 
Ulrich, who beat a Rocheester defender 
and buried the ball in the net.
Unfortunately, Rochester was the only 
team to score in the second half. UR 
headed in a comer kick that McNutt 
could not handle as he charged out of the 
goal. Rochester won the game by a final 
score of 21.
The team matched up against UAA 
rival Brandeis University on Friday. They 
fought hard and played well, but came 
out on the losing end ofa 2-0 final score.
Play was even in the entire game, with 
both teams getting chances at shots on 
goal. But, with three minutes left in the 
first half, Brandeis got a goal when an 
attack of theirs confused the Carnegie 
Mellon defense and led to an accidental 
mismarking. Brandeis crossed the ball 
into the Tartan penalty area, and their 
first shot deflected off junior back Suraj
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer 
Freshman Harry Ulrich fends for the ball.
Naik. The rebound was hauled in by a 
Brandeis player who was unmarked as a 
result ofthe temporary confusion. He had a 
clear shot, and it went in.
Less than half a minute into the second 
half, Brandeis had the ball in the Tartan 
end, when one of their players dove to barely 
get his head on a ball that crossed into the 
penalty area. Without any real speed and 
with the appearance of heading towards the 
endline, the ball fooled McNutt and kicked 
off the post and into the net. It was a lucky 
goal in the opinion of Head Coach Nick 
Gaudioso, and it was most certainly a back
breaking goal for the players. However, they 
fought hard to try to even up the score, but 
Brandeis defense was too tough and the 
Judges preserved the shutout.
Gaudioso said that he knew it was going 
to be a tough game, because most UAA 
games are low-scoring, and in most cases the 
Please see UAA, page 12

---------------------------------------------------

c2 arn aegieM l oegMnUvn snttyM 'MvSnguvid l C Nwiypng c119
Big plays marked career 
of Tartan football captain
By DARREN CHIAPPETTA
Tartan Staffwriter 
I
i To say that.the college football career of 
Mike Mathias has been punctuated by big 
plays would be a grand understatement. The 
first time the halfback carried the ball as a 
freshman, he ran for a touchdown, and that 
season he scored three times in only 13 rushes, 
i The following year, in a game against Roch
ester, startinghalfback Jim Filicko was forced 
out with an injury. In what many Carnegie 
Mellon coaches and players have called the 
best game theyve ever been involved in, 
Mathias caught the game-winning touch
down pass with less than 10 seconds to play 
to give the Tartans a stunning come-frombehind 31-27 victory.
Last season, the versatile 
Mathias was second on the team 
in touchdowns in addition to 
being the teams second-leading rusher and top receiver.1 Add past performance to the 
expectations Mathias held for 
this season, and it becomes easy 
to understand why the soft-spo
ken senior is so devastated he 
tnay never play for the Tartans 
again.
: In CMUs first offensive pos
session against Allegheny in the 
second week of the season, Mathias, a gradu
ate of nearby Brentwood High School, broke 
the fifth metatarsal of his left foot. The injury 
occurred in the same series that senior tight 
end Aaron Neal broke his fibula. Neither 
player is expected to be able to return this 
season.
' I knew at the end of the year, Id be done, 
and I could accept that, Mathias said. But 
in the second game, thats real hard.
Although he only played in one game, 
Mathias, one of the Tartans four captains, 
still ranks third on the team in rushing with 
24 carries for 109 yards. He also scored twice 
in the season-opening victory against 
Franklin & Marshall. Coaches and players 
alike feel as badly for Mathias the person as 
Mathias the player.
Mike is just a happy-go-lucky kid, said 
head coach Rich Lackner. Its a blow on a 
personal level and to the team.
Senior linebacker Mark Kasperowicz 
added, Hes a leader on and off the field. 
Anytime the team was down, hed do what
ever it took  hed come out to practice a 
half-hour early, hed lead by example. Were 
definitely going to miss him.
Mathias worked hard to become one of 
what has developed into a long line of great 
running backs at CMU. He is so talented, in 
fact, that offensive coordinator Rich Erdelyi 
put him in the same class of runner as Scott 
Barnyak, who led the nation in touchdowns 
in 1990.
In high school, Mathias, who played base
ball and basketball in addition 
to football, said he never really 
had time for weightlifting. Once 
he arrived at CMU, however, 
the industrial management ma
jor hit the weights, putting on 
15 pounds over the course of 
the last three years. He now 
carries 195 pounds on a solid 
510" frame.
As much as he misses the 
action on the field, Mathias 
longs for the camaraderie that 
the sport fosters. Although he 
still frequently attends prac
tice and tries to get to every game, he says 
that it is simply not the same.
Thats half the reason you play football, 
for the friendships you build.
That said, its just as difficult for Mathias 
to sit around and watch his team play.
I thought we had a real good chance to 
make the playoffs this year  that was the 
main thing. [I] wanted to have a good year, 
nothing special.
Now it looks like that chance is gone, at 
least for Mathias. When asked what he would 
like to be remembered for as a player, he said 
he hop.ed people would consider him a pretty 
good player who tried to help his team win at 
any cost.
I hate losing, he said. I hope they say I 
was dedicated and cared about the program.
Tartan File Photo 
Mathias worked hard to 
be a great running back.
Mariners edge out Tartans
FOOTBALL, from page 9
three passes in the series for 84 yards, 
a 47-yard completion to Sharpe and a 
37-yard connection with sophomore 
split end Rick Steiner.
The Mariners took the ensuing kickoff and went on an epic drive that 
started at their own nine-yard line 
and covered 19 plays and 7:03 on the 
clock. The Tartan defense bent, but 
would not break. On fourth and goal 
from the two, Will Hendricks was 
stopped, and the Tartans took over at 
their own one-yard line.
We thought when we stopped them 
there, we had the game won, said
in the second quarter, lofted a pass 
toward the Tartan end zone. Senior 
strong safety Avi Barat jumped up 
and intercepted the pass at the oneyard line, then appeared to lateral 
the ball in the direction of Coates
Just three plays later, with the 
ball on the Carnegie Mellon 23, 
Soltysik and Neupaver hooked up 
again as the Tartans regained the 
lead. Soltysik found the wide-open 
Neupaver around midfield, and the
before he hit the ground. Coates, who speedy sophomore did the rest,
was standingin the end zone, scooped 
it up and was eventually tackled be
hind the goal line for a safety, making 
the score 13-12. Barat tried to clarify 
the play following the game.
I intercepted it, and then I real
ized I shouldnt have [since Kings 
Point would have lost the ball on 
downs anyway], so I tried to get rid of
CMU played well, but was not able to
junior defensive tackle Todd 
McManus. We knew we had to step 
up, and we did.
The offense went three plays and 
out, setting the stage for one of sev
eral bizzare plays which ultimately 
decided the margin of victory.
On fourth down and 17 from the 
CMU 33, Kings Point quarterback 
Todd Johnston, who replaced Fetzer
Tartan hie Photo
pull out a win against U.S. Merchant Marine Academy.
it and hope the ref called it incom
plete.
Two minutes into the fourth quar
ter, Mariner tailback Corey Marker 
scored on a 20-yard run to put Kings 
Point back in front, 18-13. Marker, 
who burned CMU for 133 yards and a 
touchdown last season, was held to 
just 75 yards on 25 carries by the 
stingy Tartan defense.
outracing the Kings Point second
ary for a 73-yard play and a 19-18 
Tartan advantage with 11:45 to  
in the game.
Carnegie Mellons lead lasted all 
of about 15 seconds, which is about 
how long it took for Mariner defen
sive back John Deines to intercept 
Soltysiks two-point conversion pass 
and go end zone to 
end zone. By col
lege rule, a re
turned conversion 
try by the defend
ers gives them two 
points, and the 
Mariners were 
back on top, 20-19. 
More importantly, 
the morale of the 
Tartan players had 
been broken.
It was heart
breaking to 
ahead and then 
have that happen 
on the conversion, 
Sharpe said. It 
took a lot of wind 
out of our sails. 
Although the 
play occured early 
in the fourth quar
ter, the Tartans 
were never able to 
get it together after that, squan
dering several good chances late in 
the game. The Mariners improved 
to 31, while the Tartans dropped 
to 2-2.
The Tartans will travel to Grove 
City College next week before re
turning for Homecoming against 
UAA foe Washington University of 
St. Louis.
We think youll find our career options 
a little more inviting.
Austin, Texas-based Crystal Semiconductor designs mixed-signal integrated circuits, specializing in SMARTAnalog technology. 
Crystal recruiters will be al Carnegie Mellon to meet lop (GFA 3.5+) EE and computer science grads-to-be on Tuesday, October 3 
and Wednesday, October 4 ot the Coreer Center al 19 Warner Hall. You can either contocl the Crystal Recruiting Office lo make 
an appointment or do so on one of the interview days. There will M'
be an information session today from 4:30-6:30 in Student Center Jjgp SS^S
Room 210. If you can't make ii on these days, we also lab A Cirrus Logic Company
resumes by fax, e-mail or snail mail (U.S. Postal Service).your Future
tryslal College Recruiting P.O. Box 17847 Austin, TX 78760 
fax (512) 445-4379 crystlhr@crystal.cirrus.com
YOUR ASSIGNMENT: 
TO EXPAND YOUR UNDERSTANDING OF ASIA.
Each year the Henry Luce Foundation selects a group of outstanding young Americans to 
live, work and study in Asia for one year. For twenty-one years the Luce Scholars program 
has aimed to create Asia-aware professionals who will assume leading roles in American 
society.
Luce Scholars Program
Who is Eligible?
 Current CMU seniors (expecting to graduate before September 1996), graduate students, 
alumni and junior faculty.
 U.S. citizens who have not reached their 30th birthday by September 1, 1996 who have had 
little exposure to Asian culture or Asian studies.
 Individuals who have a record of the highest academic achievement, outstanding leadership 
qualities, and a clearly defined career interest. Personal characteristics that typify successful 
candidates include creativity, maturity, self-confidence, initiative, enthusiasm, breadth of 
interest, and sensitivity.
About the Program
The Luce Scholars Program offers grants to individuals in a wide range of professional fields 
for participation in internships and job placements in Asia. The program is aimed at recent 
college graduates who are not Asian specialists and would not otherwise have the opportunity 
or incentive during the course of .their careers to come to know Asia or their Asian col
leagues.
Specific placements have included the ateliers of several leading Japanese architects; En
glish-language newspapers and magazines in Hong Kong, Singapore, and Bangkok; a family 
'planning center in Taiwan; the Olympic organizing committee in Seoul; a pediatric hospital 
in Bangkok; a forestry project in Indonesia; and a number of local governmental agencies 
through East and Southeast Asia.
Application Information
Applications and more detailed information about the Luce Scholars Program are available 
from Barbara Lockley Neiberg in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, BH 161 (email: 
bl2t; phone: x81080). Preliminary application deadline: October 30,1995. The selec
tion committee will invite candidates to interview in early November and will submit two 
candidates for nomination to the Henry Luce Foundation by early December.

---------------------------------------------------

arn aegieM l oegMnUvn snttyM 'MvSnguvid l C Nwiypng c119cc
Administration
IM Director Mike Mastroianni, x8- 
2214; Asst. DirectorMlkeGrzywinski,
683-2938; IM Secretary  Michelle 
Matta, X8-2053; IM Co-Presidents  
Mike Monico and Sean Keane, X2-2900; 
IM Women's Pres.  Patty Bruno.
Important DatesMonday, October2Co-Rec Volley
ball play-offs begin.Tuesday, October 3  IM Board 
Meeting, 12:30 pm, in the gyms new 
conference room.Wednesday, October 4Intramural 
Cross Country Meet, 4:30 pm.Thursday, October 5  Entries due 
for soccer, Highlander games, volley
ball, bowling, and racquetball.Thursday, October 5  Rules Clinic 
Meeting for all soccer teams.Friday, October6 IM Football Play
offs posted in IM Office after 11 am.Sunday, October 8  IM Football 
Playoffs Begin.
INTRAMURAL FOOTBALL
Playoffs will start on Sunday, Octo
ber 8. Teams should call or stop by the 
Intramural Office (room 101, gym) on 
Friday, October 6, to check for times 
and dates of playoff games. Here are 
the intramural rankings through games' 
played on Thursday, September 28.
Majors
1. SAE Champions (4-1)
2. Hit Squad (4-1)
3. Gang Green (3-1)
4. NP Completions (3-2)
5. Beta Colemans #83 (3-2)
6. PIKA (1-2)
Minors
1. Beta All-Stars (5-0)
2. Delt Scrubs (5-0)
3. PKT Silent Rage (5-0)
4. TX Blue (4-0)
5. 69ers (4-0)
6. Kappa Slg Philly (4-0)
Women
1. Tartan Hoopers (4-0)
2. BBE (2-1-1)
3. Theta/DG (1-2-1)
INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL 
SOCCER TEAMS
Two teams are still needed for the 
1995 International SoccerToumament, 
to be held at Gesling Stadium on Friday 
October 20-21. Teams interested in 
j entering should call IM Director Mike 
Mastroianni as soon as possible.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Playoffs for Co-rec Volleyball begin 
this evening, Monday, October 2.
: Champions will be crowned Thursday 
: evening, October 5. The following is the 
. first-round playoff schedule:
MAJORS 
Rude Dogs (BYE)
KSA Soon Doo Boo-1 vs Dig Up: 10-2/ 
7:45/B
INTERMEDIATE 
Beta Spike/Tartan Hoopers vs CCE 
Grads: 10-3/6:45/B 
Bad Muthas vs SAE Iron City: 10-3/ 
8:15/B
MINORS
The Clowns vs SAE Black Label: 10-2/ 
6:45/A
Wet Leather Congress vs Pioneers: 10- 
2/6:45/C
TXTri Delt vs Beta/Tartan Hoopers: 10- 
2/7:45/C
Mixed Up vs Convex Sets: 10-2/7:45/ 
A
TENNIS
All teams should follow their sched
uled games. A make-up schedule of 
rained-out games will be posted in the 
; :IM Office on Tuesday, October 5.
SOCCER
Entries for IM Soccer are due Thurs
day, October 5, by 4:30 pm. Also at 
4:30, a mandatory Rules Clinic Meet
ing will be held in the small gym. All 
teams must have a representative at 
this meeting. All officials must also 
attend this meeting. Call Mike 
Mastroianni for more information on 
, becoming a soccer official.
IM CROSS COUNTRY MEET
Wednesday, October 4 at 4:30 pm is 
:the date and time for the annual CMU 
IM Cross Country Meet. All individual 
and team participants can sign up at 
; the event, which will start at the bottom 
of Flagstaff Hill. The 1.9-mile course 
will proceed through Schenley Park and 
finish behind Phipps Conservatory.
ENTERING EMAIL ROSTERS
To enter your team by way of email, 
You must use an Official Entry Form, 
'hich is posted to the official.athletic-8
dept-news b-board periodically. Email 
entries that do not use this form will not 
e accepted, and all email rosters are 
due 24 hours prior to the actual due 
date.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
wl
Columnist offers year-end baseball awards
The Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
The end of the baseball season can only 
mean one thing  Guptas Postseason 
Awards. Here they are, starting with the 
National League:
NL Most Valuable Player: This was 
a year reminiscent of1987, in which there 
was nobody with outstanding numbers, 
but intangible contributions by several 
players were immense. This group in
cludes Mike Piazza, Ron Gant, Reggie 
Sanders, Eric Karros, Barry Larkin, and 
Greg Maddux. Though they are all fine 
candidates, the choice is Mike Piazza. 
Despite an injury that set him down for 
nearly three weeks, he put up numbers 
that would have been outstanding in a 
162-game schedule (.353 avg., 31 HR, 91 
RBI, 81 runs scored). Not only did he 
produce at the plate, but it wasnt just the 
pitchers fault that the Dodgers had the 
second-lowest team earned run average 
in the National League. Catching isnt 
the best thing for the knees, either.
NL Cy Young: Why even bother? Greg 
Maddux could very well be the greatest 
pitcher since Walter Johnson. A record of 
19-2,1.68 ERA, 177 strikeouts, 10 com
plete games, and the most amazing sta
tistic of them all, 23 walks in 203 innings 
pitched. All signs point toward an fourth 
straight Cy Young award.
NL Rookie of the Year: I certainly 
dont buy the argument that Hideo Nomo 
isnt worthy of the award since he played 
six years in Japan already. That would be
the same as limiting the award to only 
those players who never played in the 
minors. But after Nomos recent slump, 
the argument has become moot, and the 
clear choice for the award is third baseman 
Chipper Jones of the Atlanta Braves. The 
usual stars (Justice, McGriff, Grissom) 
had unusual years, and this rookie with 
the poise of a veteran was a constant force 
throughout the season. Jones numbers 
speak for themselves (22 HR, 84 RBI, 85 
runs scored).
NL Manager of the Year: This was 
another category that had no distinctive 
nominee and instead was a cluster of sev
eral well-deserving candidates. The group 
included the likes of Davey Johnson, Bobby 
Cox, Don Baylor, Tommy 
Lasorda, and even Terry 
Collins. The winner is Davey 
Johnson of the Cincinnati Reds.
Not only did Johnson bring the 
Reds back from the dead (a 1-10 start), but he also kept the 
team alive and well amidst a 
storm of injuries to stars such 
as Hal Morris, Benny Santiago,
Mike Jackson, and Jose Rijo.
He also was able to get more 
than anyone could ever dream 
from such journeymen/flops as 
Pete Schorek (18 wins), Eric 
Anthony, Mark Lewis, and Jerome Walton. 
His knowledge and experience will be a 
key advantage for the Reds.in October.
NL Comeback Player of the Year: 
Heres an easy one  Ron Gant of the 
Cincinnati Reds. A year after breaking his 
leg in a biking accident and being b asically 
given up for dead by the Atlanta Braves, 
Gant has posted MVP caliber statistics 
(.285 avg., 29 HR, 86 RBI, 22 SB) and was 
a cog in the Reds offensive machine 
throughout the year.
AL Most Valuable Player: This is prob
ably the toughest trophy to assign of any 
in both leagues, for there are three poten
tial candidates who all make distinct cases.
The consensus appears to center on Mo 
Vaughn of the Boston Red Sox, as he has 
carried the Red Sox through their streaks 
and slumps and put together his finest 
year ever (.295 avg., 39 HR, 123 RBI). Of 
course Albert Belles numbers speak for 
themselves (.314 avg., 49 HR, 125 RBI). 
And then there is the West Coast repre
sentative : Edgar Martinez of the Seattle 
Mariners (.355 avg., 29 HR, 111 RBI, .480 
on base average, 116 runs, 173 hits). And 
the winner is Edgar Martinez. People claim 
he is undeserving because of his desig
nated hitter status (the philosophy is that 
the MVP award should go to one who plays 
the field as well). But one has to recognize 
it is the most valuable player award, and
Edith Pong/Tartan 
the Mariners, in the absence of Ken Griffey 
Jr., would be in an abyss were it not for the 
constant production of Martinez.
AL Cy Young Award: Fortunately for 
Bucs fans, the incredible resurgence of 
Tim Wakefield has cooled down a bit, and 
from the dust there has arisen only one 
truly deserving candidate: Randy J ohnson 
of the Mariners.
After several years in which he was 
overlooked in favor of pitchers who had 
less impressive statistics, Johnson is now 
the undeniable choice. A record of 172, 
2.56 ERA, and 275 strikeouts in 197 in
nings, clearly warrants his first of many 
forthcoming Cy Young awards.
AL Rookie of the Year: Although 
Garret Anderson emerged just in time to 
fill a necessary clog in the California 
Angels outfield, his numbers are just 
short of the impressive stats compiled 
this year by Marty Cordova, outfielder 
for the Minnesota Twins (.277 avg., 22 
HR, 75 RBI, 18 SB).
Rookie of the Year honors are not 
intended to honor those who also add the 
intangibles to a team as the MVP does-, 
and therefore the Twins dismal record 
should not be taken into account.
AL Manager of the Year: My right 
foot could have told you back in April 
that the Indians, Yankees, Mariners* 
and Rangers would be playoff contend
ers this year, but the Red Sox? I 
dont believe even the Red Sox 
could have predicted a division 
title without a serious doubt. 
This is why Kevin Kennedy re
ceives the award. -
Not only did he take a team 
from nowhere and turn them 
into a winner, but he also did it 
without staff aces Roger 
Clemens and Aaron Sele for 
much of the year. Of course, the 
key might have been as simple 
as keeping Jose Canseco out of 
Art Staff the pen.
AL Comeback Player of the Year: 
Sorry Pirate fans, but Wakefield does 
deserve something for his efforts. After 
being discarded to the bottom of the 
scrap heap by the Pirates (lately that 
has become a big heap), he came back 
and posted a 16-5 record with 2.86 ERAy 
and more importantly, he often pitched 
the Red Sox out of losing streaks by. 
continuously winning on three days of 
rest. It will be interesting to see whether 
he brings some of his 92 playoff magic td 
this years playoffs.
Anuj Gupta is a senior public policy, 
major. ;;
Fantasy hockey leagues let fans live out NHL dreams
Crashing the Net
by Jonmichael Moy
Avid National Hockey League 
fans from Canada and the U.S. 
are tuning to their local sports 
networks to catch their favor
ite teams duringthe preseason. 
The new NHL season is ap
proaching with its usual com
bination of sensational high
light scoring, bone-crushing 
hitting, and of course, fighting 
that lasts longer than the 
Tyson-McNeeley bout.
But in the minds of many 
fantasy hockey league team 
owners, this year could prove 
to be one of the most interest
ing seasons. There are ques
tion-marks all over the league. 
Will Super Mario regain his 
MVP form of two years ago and 
lead the Pens to the Cup this 
year? Can former Russian 
teammates Pavel Bure and 
Alexander Mogilny rekindle the 
scoring magic between them? 
Has Patrick Roy won his last 
Vezina Trophy? The list goes 
on and on with more questions 
and fewer answers.
There are a variety of fantasy 
hockey leagues that you can 
join. Im in three of them right 
now, and all are run differently. 
Some leagues require you to 
pay an admission fee, which is 
put into the winning pot at the 
end of the season. Rotisserie 
hockey leagues participants 
draft NHL players, with team 
rankings based on attributes 
such as goals, assists, penalty 
minutes, and shots - accumu
lated over the season. This is 
ideal for statistic freaks, and 
even if you arent one, I guaran
tee youll be checking the ESPN 
web page for stats every chance 
you can get at http:// 
ESPNet.sportszone.com.
If stats dont thrill you, you 
might be interested in hockey 
leagues that are run with soft
ware simulators. Instead of bas
ing your teams performance 
on actual statistics, the soft
ware will actually simulate games 
with the outcome based on indi
vidual players attributes, such 
as shooting, checking, accuracy, 
speed, offensive and defensive 
awareness, and aggressiveness. 
This type of league gives team 
owners the sense of owning a 
team without having to worry 
about the headaches and hassles 
of real-life hockey.
Fantasy team owners have dif
ferent philosophies for success. 
Here are some basic guidelines 
you should follow when consider
ing your team on draft day:
Keystone players: EricLindros, 
Jaromir Jagr, Sergei Federov, and 
Pavel The Russian Rocket Bure. 
These superstars are the hottest 
things on the ice now and are on 
the cover of every hockey maga
zine on the newsstands. They are 
just reaching their prime, which 
translates into lots of points. Your 
team must have at least a couple 
of these players to be competi
tive. Another approach some 
people take is tp secure a star 
goaltender between the pipes 
before even considering offense. 
Ed Belfour, Dominnek Hasek, 
Felix Potvin, and Patrick Roy are 
worth their weight in gold.
Past prime: Not all players are 
like Raymond Bourque or Paul 
Coffey, who dont seem to lose a 
single stride over the course of 
time. Superstars such as Wayne 
Gretzky, LucRobitaille, and Doug 
Gilmour were scoring machines 
during their prime, but, we cant 
always live in the past. And just 
because Claude Lemieux won last 
years playoff MVP award doesnt 
mean hell do the same during 
the regular season.
Injury-prone players: From 
Gary Roberts ankle to Cam 
Neelys battered-up knees, youll 
find some star players lying in 
the medical room watching the 
hockey game rather than racking 
up points for your team. This 
doesnt mean you shouldnt con
sider them for your team. Just be 
a little cautious if you decide to 
draft them because they might 
end up breaking a limb or two 
during the season.
Rookies: Dont even bother 
wasting a high draft pick on a 
rookie, because they tend to hurt 
your team rather than help. Most 
highly-touted rookies have diffi
culties adjusting to the NHL, 
among other problems. Players
who performed beyond everyones 
expectations in their rookie sea
son, such as Teemu Selanne, Mar
tin Brodeur, Joe Juneau, and 
Peter Forsberg, are extremely 
rare.
Beware of the balanced team. 
My first team consisted mostly of
Ryan Rhoads/Tartan Art Staff
players from the New Jersey Dev
ils, and I found that they were 
only playing 30 minutes every 
game. Big mistake! If you can get 
front-line players whose teams 
rely on the one-line offense  i.e. 
Boston Bruins, Dallas Stars, 
Winnipeg Jets, and Vancouver
Canucksyoull definitely havd 
more of an advantage.
But most important, as with; 
anything else, have fun with it.; 
Its only a game. (Of course, I; 
have to remind myself of that; 
once in a while.)
So if youre a big hockey fan and,1 
want to try your luck, then go forj 
it! And if you do end up winning; 
some money, dont forget who; 
helped you.
Anyone interested in j oining the] 
CMU Fourth Annual NHL Fan-I 
tasy Hockey League, please con-1 
tact Matt Keating (mk55) before! 
Monday evening.
Jonmichael is currently debat-1 
ing whether he should return to\ 
playing ice hockey to help out with\ 
the Pens defense this year. With j 
SergeiZubov injuredand Dimitri 
Mironovs current performance, 
he doesnt see why not.
classified
flOUSING
Squirrel Hill House  1 Irg BRw/ 
balcony, Male, 275/month, easy walk to 
CMU, Bartlett St, 422-7670.
private sector grants & scholarships is 
now available. All students are eligible 
regardless of grades, income, or parent's 
income. Let us help. Call student 
Financial Services: 1-800-263-6495 ext. 
F52361.
North Oakland. 2 BR Apt w/w carpet,
A/C, parking, available short term lease Calendr 
accepted. 495 + electric 362-2049. Ask 
for Dianne or Virginia.
hundreds of students are already earning i 
free trips and lots of cash with America's | 
#1 spring break company! Sell only 15 1 
trips and travel free! Choose Cancn, ! 
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! Call now!j 
Take a break student travel (800) 95- i 
BREAK!
JOBS
Spring Break! Travel free with Sun 
Splash Tours, "The Reliable Spring Break 
Company!" We pay the highest 
commissions, at the lowest prices. 
Campus reps wanted to sell Jamaica, 
Cancn, Bahamas, Daytona, Panama 
City, and South Padre. Call for 
information, reservations & prices. 1- 
800-426-7710.
MISC
Townsend Booksellers offers a Free On
line Search Service for out-of-print 
books. Always buying and selling fine 
used, rare and scholarly books in all 
fields. Near campus at 4612 Henry St. 
(off S. Craig) Mon.-Sat. 11-6, Sun. 1-5. 
Phone 412-682-8030 e-mail: 
townsend@interloc.com
Lead Vocalist wanted m/f for original 
alternative rock band: recording and 
performing. 920-9020.
SERVICES
International StudentsVisitors. DV-1 
Greencard Program, by US Immigration. 
Legal Sen/ices Tel (818) 772-7168 
#20231 Stagg St., Canoga Park, CA 
91306.
Lose weight doctor recommended 
herbal and nutritional programs-easy, 
safe, comfortable. I dropped 6 dress sizes 
in 8 weeks, without drugs, exercise, or 
crazy diets! Kelly 429-5894.
Alex's Flowers for romance, birthday, 
anniversary, platonic and more. 687- 
4128 DELIVERY 687-ALEX. Group 
discounts and Greek discounts.
.Le14iiv
Volunteers needed: job assistants for ;
blind woman at Oakland non-profit i
agency. Please call 621-1967 for more ! 
information.
4vg6iL
Free financial aid! Over S6 billion in Free Trips & Cash! Find out how
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........$8.00/wk \
21-50 words.........$10.00/wk
51-100 words......$13.00/wk !
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon University |
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or I
check before first run date.
On-campus departments and organizar 
tions may pay by journal transfer.
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

cCarn aegieM l oegMnUvn snttyM 'MvSnguvid l C Nwiypng c119
Tennis teams nearing end of their fall season
TENNIS, from page 9
third place in the tournament. Watkins 
commented on the tournament, I had a 
lot of fun, and I liked playing at another 
level.
Last Wednesday the team played 
Carlow College in a home match. This 
was only the second season for the 
womens team at Carlow, so CMU had 
an enormous advantage in terms of ex
perience. The experience was evident in 
the score as CMU won the match in a 9-
0 sweep. The results were: Watkins 6-0, 
6-0; Karin Tuxen 
6-1, 6-1; Namita 
Amin 6-0, 61;
Michelle Cook 6-0,
6-0; Miklane 
Fedorowich 6-0,6- 
1; Natalie Lee 6-0,
6-0. The doubles 
teams results 
\vere: Tuxen-Julie 
Balch . 6-1, 6-2;
Amin-Huang 6-1,
6-2; Sarah FrewArti Sharma 6-0,
6-0. Many of the 
lower players were 
given the chance to 
play in the match 
so the roster was 
quite a bit differ
ent from previous 
matches. Despite 
playing with a 
changed roster, the 
team still won a 
lopsided match.
The following 
day the team won 
and played Geneva
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor
The Tartans host CWRU October 14.
Balch 6-1,1-6,6-1 ; Huang-Fedorowich 
6-3, 6-1; Cook-Michelle Majikes 6-2, 
4-6, 7-6 (7-5).
Huang felt that the easy matches may 
prove dangerous to the team because 
they may soften the team up for the 
important UAA matches. Im a little 
concerned about playing schools that 
are not as competitive, because our stan
dards may go down, she said.
So far the team has played only one 
league opponent this season. The match 
was against Rochester and it was also 
their only loss. De
spite losing that 
match to Rochester, 
the team felt that 
the challenge was 
exciting and fun. 
Many of the players 
felt that they felt exhilarated playing 
tough points in their 
close matches.
The womens ten
nis team will play 
this weekend in the 
Catholic University 
Tournament in 
Washington, D.C. 
Players feel optimis
tic about their 
chances in the tour
nament.
The mens and 
womens tams will 
play at home against 
Case Western Re
serve University on 
October 14.
It will be the final 
match of the semescollege in their second consecutive home 
match. Again the team won another 
easy match with similar one-sided scores 
to the previous day.
The results were: Mills 6-0,6-0; Tuxen 
6-0,6-1; Huang 61,6-3; Amin 64, 6- 
4; Balch 6-1, 6-1; Cook 6-1, 5-7, 6-2. 
The doubles teams results were: Tuxenter for the mens team.
This match will be one of the biggest 
matches of the fall season because it will 
go a long way in deciding the seeding 
order of the UAA Tournament.
Since the teams do not play many 
UAA opponents before the tournament, 
any conference win is important.
Soccer team rocks UAA leader
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer 
Sophomore midfielder Kelsi Montgomery 
prepares to boot the ball downfield .
SOCCER, from page 9
Brandis tried to push out of their 
territory, but CMU quickly regained 
control. Minutes later, the ball again 
shot past the Brandis goalkeeper 
as sophomore forward Lauren 
DeRosset headed the ball into the 
goal off a high comer kick from jun
ior back Mae Hogan.
CMU did not let up the pressure in 
the second half. The Brandis de
fense scrambled to clear the ball 
from their side of the field, but the 
Tartans passed the ball well through 
the Judges lines. Early in the half, 
DeRosset ran down the sideline and 
centered the ball to Poisson, who, 
under pressure from a Brandis de
fender, sprinted downfield and shot 
on goal. The ball went just wide, 
ricocheting off of the far post and 
bouncing out of bounds.
Soon thereafter, Brandis got on 
the scoreboard for the only time of 
the game. The Judges was awarded
USC looking for PAC-10 title
USC, from page 9
ball games this season and will probably 
win every game, they could wind up with an
0-11 record. They have played every game 
so far with Heisman-hopeful Keyshawn 
Johnson.
Johnson has been under NCAA investi
gation for taking a $200 loan from a long
time friend, who happens to be an agent, 
while he attended West Los Angeles Com
munity College.
If the NCAA concludes that this is an 
infraction of the rules, USC may be forced 
to forfeit every game that Johnson has 
played in.
Even if Johnson is ruled eligible, the 
University of Southern Californias great
est threat to stop them from winning a 
national championship is not an investiga
tion committee either. Its not a weakness 
in the team. Its not even Notre Dame or 
UCLA. Its a team of 62 men and women 
who could Vote for somebody else.
In all likelihood, a Colorado/Oklahoma/
Nebraska winner will play a Florida State/ 
Florida winner in a matchup not of sound 
football teams, but of sound statistics.
Barring any huge upsets, it is almost 
assured that one of the previous Big Eight 
teams will be undefeated by beating the 
other two. Florida State and Florida play 
on November 25 and the winner will most 
likely be undefeated and face one of the 
Big Eight teams in the Fiesta Bowl.
Thus, the Fiesta Bowl winner will 
thwart USC and run away with a na
tional championship not earned, but well 
bargained for.
Chris Cannon is a sophomore computer 
science major whose education may be 
financed by professional football team 
owners who hope to persuade him to play 
for them in the years to come. Hey, thatIM 
football stuff can really pay off. After this 
past weeks performance in IM football, 
he needs a mere 1,683 yards in his last 
two games to break the record.
a direct penalty kick on the Tartan 
goal, and they took full advantage of 
it. Smith dove to the right for the 
ball, but it skimmed past her finger
tips and into the net.
For the rest of the half, CMU con
tinued to control the ball well and 
kept it in the Brandeis zone most of 
the time, but they were unable to 
capitalize on any scoring opportuni
ties. Time ran out in the game, leav
ing the Tartans with their first UAA 
win, and Brandeis  who had led 
the UAAwith its first league loss.
Haggerty said, I think we were 
more prepared mentally for this 
game than for any other, and it 
showed.
We worked hard the first half," 
she said. We didnt actually play 
smart, but we were so mentally pre
pared that we were able to put three 
balls in the net. We actually played 
better in the second half, I thought.
CMU plays W&J next week.
Tartans lose two games
UAA, from page 9
team that scores first wins the 
game. That was exactly the case 
with Brandeis on Friday.
Gaudioso said that he was 
more worried about bouncing 
back from this loss than any
thing else. The team needs to 
put it in their past and get ready 
for future games, especially UAA 
games. The first was this Sun
day, against the University of 
Rochester, which the Tartans 
lost 2-1.
The team wont have a UAA 
match again until late in Octo
ber, when they will play at 
Emory, New York, and Wash
ington Universities. This week 
they will host Grove City Col
lege on Wednesday and play at 
Franklin and Marshall College 
on Sunday.
Sigma Phi Epsiloin
Cam pmu sornmopSnc hp erwldPg 
iSt Dl nam prnShpbP fmrkSpt sornmopSnc SP omndopSpt nh 
AropmtSm Tmffhp :pSUmoPSnc
XOE
 15,000 undergraduates
 270 Chapters
 Over 180,000 living
alumni
 $10 million Educational
Foundation, Largest 
in the fraternity world
 $3.5 million National
Housing Corporation
 Previously at CMU
From 1925-1937
* Scholars
* Leaders
* Gentlemen
* AthletesFind out why more men have joined Sigma Phi 
than any other fraternity, Attend one of our 20-
This could be your 
opportunity to:
 Be a leader on campus
 Start something new
 Make the fraternity the
way you Want it to be
 Join a fraternity with
NO PLEDGING and 
NO HAZING
 Be a founding father of
Sigma Phi Epsilon at 
Carnegie Mellon 
University
Epsilon for 13 consecutive years 
minute informational meetings.
WED., October 4 at 7:30 pm, West Wing TV Lounge 
THURS., October 5 at 7:30 pm, West Wing TV Lounge

---------------------------------------------------

shakes,; 
rattles,;
T TI TTl t r\HEiHS@0apHH
Hisiitso
CMU
Ryan Rhoads/Tartan Art Staff
Students express themselves through dance;
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
At a school as academically challenging as CMU, 
many of us find that relaxing and having fun are 
increasingly important. When were not studying, 
writing, or finishing problem sets, students par
ticipate in a variety of activities to balance the 
demands of schoolwork.
One of the most dynamic activities, which has 
myriad forms, is dance.
Dance is about freedom; a freedom that enables 
your body to do and express what you want, said 
Laura McClure, a senior professional writing ma
jor.
McClure is a fourth-year member of Dancers 
Symposium.
The group performs at the end of each semester 
and rehearses on a regular basis throughout the 
year.
The organization stresses the fact that anyone 
can become a part of Dancers Symposium. Sandra 
Culp, a junior biology major and a member of
Dancers Symposium, feels that the experience can 
be extremely rewarding.
She said, Even if someone has never had a dance 
class in their life, taking or joining Dancers Sym
posium can provide such a new and unique chal
lenge. People often misjudge dance as non-athletic, 
but in reality dance makes you use muscles you 
never thought you had. It forces you to learn 
control and awareness of the whole body. There are 
very few sports or art forms with that combination 
of skill. Plus, dancing can be such a bonding expe
rience with others, especially while working on a 
performance piece. Ive made friends through danc
ing that I will never lose.
Adam Darby, a senior technical writing major, 
agrees. Darby frequents area raves.
He said, By going to raves, Ive had the opportu
nity to meet so many cool people. You get a lot of 
email addresses. I would say that 80 to 90 percent 
of the people are really nice. I have met a few people 
who are assholes, but I would definitely say that 
the non-assholes outnumber the assholes.
Darby, who started to dance at an extremely 
young age, will go to 
great lengths to find 
a good rave.
He has traveled to 
Cleveland as well as 
Philadelphia, and 
has injured himself 
sporadically.
However, he be
lieves the pain and 
the distance are 
worth the enjoyment 
he gets from danc
ing.
He said, My knees 
and ankles always 
get messed up, but 
its worth the pain. If 
I go without dancing 
for a couple of days, I 
don't know what to 
do with myself. If I 
hear music or a beat 
anywhere, I start 
dancing. Its a part of 
me.
Darby also takes 
advantage of the
many clubs in the Pittsburgh area. He said, Cloud
9 is a good place to go. Its 18 and over on Sundays. 
There are a lot of under-21 clubs around like Club 
Vegas, Club 51, and Club Europa. Its mostly a lot 
of high school kids, and they play R&B and hiphop 
type of music.
No matter what type of dancing a person enjoys, 
most people agree that the only way in which one 
can perfect their 
skill is through 
practice.
Darby said, It 
takes a lot of prac
tice. A lot of 
people are good, 
but they dont 
have the desire to 
go past a certain 
point. Some 
people just dont 
put it into their 
life. I dance to 
video game mu
sic if I have to.
People should 
dance to any
thing. Like if you 
hear machinery 
just start danc
ing. I definitely 
think the best 
way to learn is 
from other 
people. You can 
pick up stuff from 
others but make 
your own per
sonal variation 
on it.
McClure feels 
practice is ex
tremely beneficial. She said, The good thing about 
dancing is that even if nothing else in my life is in 
control, I will always know that my body is in 
control. I can always get better by practicing. 
Practice will make my dancing better. Most things 
in life dont work that way.
Drew Shefman, a senior mechanical engineering 
major who is an active member in the Ballroom 
Dance Club believes that although dancing takes a 
]ot on the part of the individual such as motivation,
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Valerie Graner and Julie Walker, members of the ballroom 
dance club, prove that it takes two to tango.
desire, coordination, and the will to learn, th^ 
outcome is usually advantageous.
He said, Ballroom dancing has done a great dea 
for me. Ive lost most inhibitions about performing 
for an audience. Ive lost 40 pounds. Ive made some 
really close friends both at CMU and around th^ 
world. I no longer sit around with friends saying j 
have nothing to do. Ive been able to travel to most 
of the East Coast anc 
even to England. Ive 
gained a ton of experi
ence about leadership 
and problem solving 
and it has fixed m3 
posture.
Shefman feels tha , 
everyone can better 
themselves through 
dancing.
He said, Even at 
the lowest level of par
ticipation, a person 
can benefit from 
dance. It gives you the 
chance to meet other 
people and to learn 
and develop a skill 
that is useful for the 
rest of your life. The 
only thing that it 
takes to get something 
out of ballroom is the 
desire to learn. Th 
more that you ask th 
teachers and TAs foj* 
help, the more you gj> 
out to nightclubs op 
dance studios with usj. 
The more you danc 
and practice, the moro 
you learn.
But what goes through many minds is the ques
tion, Can I really dance?
Frank Ligons, a junior history major, and presi - 
dent of Spirit said, Loosely defined, everyone caiji 
dance to a certain extent. They may be off a bea1 
and it may not be aesthetically pleasing, but every
one can dance. Its all personal.
However, Shefman encourages anyone, eveii 
people with no dancing experience at all, to giv 
Please see DANCE, page L

---------------------------------------------------

OCarn aegieM l oegMnUvn snttyM 'MvSnguvid l C Nwiypng c119
PB Jam reaches 
out to community
By ANNE MARIE DEVINE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Many people who saw the origi
nal advertisements for PB Jam 
might have wondered if it was a 
new local band or another Orien
tation -continuation program 
from Residence Life.
, Later publicized as a peanut 
butter and jelly sandwich mara
thon, PB Jam was a three-campus-wide (CMU, Duquesne, and 
the University of Pittsburgh) 
community service project.
It was organized by the Jewish 
University Center, also known 
as Hillel.
It was designed to feed the 
hungry and homeless in Pitts
burgh with peanut butter and 
jelly sandwiches. The project oc' curred today.
People who ventured to the 
tables set up on the CFA lawn 
were asked to make as many 
sandwiches as they had time to. 
Several thousand sandwiches 
were expected to be made at CMU. 
Organizers hoped that PB Jam 
would become a social event 
where students could spend time 
making sandwiches while talk
ing to their friends.
The date, October 2, was cho
sen based on Jewish holidays. PB 
Jam was held on the day before 
the start of Yom Kippur, a Jew
ish holiday of fasting and aton
ing for ones sins. PB Jam is one 
way for people, Jewish or not, to 
make up with their fellow man, 
said Jeremy Posner, a junior 
drama major and Hillel diplo-matic chair.
Posner said, We want to feed 
the hungry and homeless in Pitts
burgh. This is our home while 
were in college. The day before
Yom Kippur is a great day to 
focus on the problem of hunger 
and homelessness.
Hillel received a grant from the 
Nathan Cummings Foundation, 
which stipulated that they hold 
an interfaith, multicultural com
munity service project.
The money from the grant en
abled Hillel to purchase supplies 
and publicity. Another grant from 
Giant Eagle, a local supermar
ket, also provided funding to
wards food supplies and miscel
laneous items such as plastic 
utensils.
Posner added, The date was 
chosen on the premise of the Jew
ish calendar. However, the idea 
is consistent with every major 
theology.
The members of Hillel hoped 
that everyone in the University 
community would become in
volved in making sandwiches. 
The project brought support from 
groups of different religious and 
political beliefs.
On-campus sponsors included 
CMU Greek Council, CMU 
Intervarsity Christian Fellow
ship, and Circle K 
The Greek Council declared 
Monday a letter day, asking mem
bers of fraternities and sororities 
to come to PB Jam and give as 
much support as possible.
PB Jam also united people 
across the Okland area.
It was run simultaneously at 
student unions at the University 
of Pittsburgh and Duquesne Uni
versity.
Stephanie GusofF, a freshman 
at Pitt, said, I think its really 
important for all three schools to 
get together in a project like this. 
And, of course, the more people 
involved, the betterthe outcome.
Clusters fail to fulfill students needs
Exploring CMU
by Andrew Wang
Joes homework for Computer 
Skills Workshop (Unix-centric) 
was due in less than an hour.
No sweat. Plenty of time to do 
just three problems.
Joe plodded down to a com
puter cluster. As he looked in 
the room, he found that the 
cluster was jam packed  uh 
oh!  all the computers were 
occupied except for the one in 
the comer. Phew! Joe walked 
up to the computer and saw a 
sheet of paper sticking out of 
the keyboard which read Out 
of Order. Doh! He nervously 
waited for more than 15 min
utes until a computer was avail
able. Forty minutes left. I hope
I have enough time to do my 
homework. He logged on to the 
computer.
After three and a half min
utes, the lazy old DEC 3100 
workstation leisurely had fi
nally loaded everything up, so 
Joe began to work on his CSW 
homework. Just as Joe finished 
his first homework problem, 
someone stomped into the room 
and issued the cruel words: 
There will be a class in this 
cluster in 10 minutes. Those of 
you who are not in the class 
MUST leave...
Many CMU students suffer 
something similar to the fate of 
our fictitious CSW student Joe 
on a daily basis.What do real 
CMU students think about the 
computer clusters at CMU?
One-hundred random, Cut-wandering CMU students were sur
veyed about their opinions on the 
clusters. On a scale of 1 to 10 with1 being extremefyunsatisfied and10 being extremely satisfied, the 
survey group gave the clusters 
an average satisfaction rating of
6.1. In terms of availability, the 100 surveyed students gave the 
clusters an average rating of 4.3 
out of 10. The overall average 
weekly time each surveyed stu
dent spent in the clusters was
Hall 5419 and 5202.
4. CIT: 5.9 hours weekly, over
whelming preference for the 
Cyert clusters and all the various
' clusters in Wean Hall.
5. IM: 5.4 hours weekly, slight 
preference for the Hunt Orchard.6. H&SS: 5.0 hours weekly, 
huge preference for Hunt Or
chard.
Many of the surveyed students 
complained about the availabil
ity of the computers. Availabil
ity sucks. With CSW going on all
Jaroslav Delapedraja/Tartan Photo Staff 
While computer clusters on campus are generally accessible, they do 
not always meet students needs.
about 6.3 hours. 57 percent of the 
surveyed students had comput
ers of their own.
The ranking of average weekly 
hours spent by the surveyed stu
dents in the different depart
ments and their favorite cluster(s) 
is as follows:
1. CFA: 7.2 hours weekly, no 
definite favorite clusters.
2. MCS: 6.6 hours weekly, no 
definite favorite clusters.
3. SCS: 6.2 hours weekly, over
whelming preference for Wean
day and other students working 
on them, you never get a chance 
[to use the clusters]. What can be 
done? Let us turn in hand-writ
ten papers! said John Rosenberg, 
a junior majoring in psychology 
and industrial management.
The number of computers isnt 
the problem. The problem is that 
the clusters are reserved all day 
long for classes ... you have to 
wait until night time to do home
work, said sophomore Matthew 
Cain, an ECE major.
Professors and faculty send 
email, which is something Im 
required to check. I spend an 
hour at a time looking for a 
computer. I think there should 
be more time available. Also, 
often classes in computer rooms 
are not fullbut the cluster is 
still off limits  fill every com
puter, said H&SS sophomore 
Melissa Gongaware.
Perhaps a hierarchy should 
be established and enforced to 
limit email readers when pro
grammers or paperwriters need 
the machines, suggested se
nior industrial management 
major Josh Curtin.
Many students in the survey 
also complained about the slow 
UNIX workstations. The DEC 
3100s are hideously slow! said 
David McWharter, a freshman 
physics major.
Some surveyed students felt 
that the clusters also need to be 
geared more towards the con
venience of students.
The school needs to continue 
to upgrade other clusters (like 
West Wing) with new m achines 
because most'people live closer 
to that cluster, said an anony
mous electrical engineering 
junior.
We need a printer at 
Morewood! said an anonymous 
freshman.
Though most students felt 
that the clusters needed im
provement and were dissatis
fied with some aspect of the 
computer clusters, five out of 
the 100 surveyed students gave 
the clusters ratings of 10 on the 
scale of 1 to 10 in terms of their ; 
satisfaction.
Andrew Wang is a sophomore 
ECE and computer science 
double major.
ATTENTION JUNIORS (& 4th-year students in 5-year programs)
and SENIORS
from Iowa. Montana. New Mexico. Oregon. Tennessee. Puerto Rico. Guam, the Virgin islands. American Sa
moa. or the Northern Mariana Islands): 
Are you...
- in the upper 1/4of your class?
- interested in a career in government or public service?
- a U.S. citizen or national?
Then you should find out more about the
Harry S. 
Truman
Scholarship 
Program
The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation was established by Congress in 1975 as the official federal memorial to honor the 33rd President of the 
United States. In particular, the Truman Foundation extols President Trumans high regard for public service, his understanding of government, and his 
desire to enhance educational opportunities for all Americans. 
In this spirit, the Truman Foundation (through the Truman Scholarship competition) seeks to encourage and support students (about 90 per year) who 
have outstanding potential for leadership in public service. Winners receive up to $30,000 for tuition, fees, books, and room/board ($3,000 for the 
senior year of undergraduate school, and up to $27,000 in graduate school [(spread over two or three years of graduate study]).
Preliminary applications due: OCTOBER 23.1995. Up to 3-4 students will soon thereafter be selected as University nominees, who will 
develop final applications for submission by December 1,1995.
gSSpopts9B psltwk9optsf Information and preliminary application packets are available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161. Inter
ested students may also contact the Carnegie Mellon Truman Scholarship liaison: Dr. Joseph Devine. Associate Dean of H&SS. Baker Hall 161 (E-mail 
is the best method for contact. E-mail address: jd0x@Andrew.cmu.edu; phone: x8-6117)

---------------------------------------------------

arn aegieM l oegMnUvn snttyM 'MvSnguvid l C Nwiypng c119O0
Dean wins Doherty award
By ALEXANDRA GRUNDEMAN
^ | Tartan Junior Staffwriter
! Picture this: its springtime again and 
j 'as you walk by the tennis courts you 
. ! notice Peter Stearns, dean of H&SS, 
[' j swinging at a few balls. He wears tradiI ! tional white tennis shorts and a purple 
I \ polo shirt. Hes brushing up on his skills 
! ! for the summer when he can, along with 
; ! researching fascinating topics such as 
I old age and masculinity, he gets out on 
! 'the courts to enjoy one of his favorite 
jj [ past times.
i Its always nice to see the students go 
| j away in the Spring because that means, 
j:i first of all, I can play more tennis, but 
j! | also, itsa time for research and writing. 
\\ j Its always fun to be able to concentrate 1 on that... but if I go for half a year 
I)! without teaching I really itch. 
j I Yet another testament to his academic 
! j achievement lies in a recent award for 
| j education that he received.
j The Robert Doherty Award is tradi| tionally given for substantial and sus
tained contributions to excellence in 
education.
He describes the award as identifying 
contributions to forming educational 
policy, curriculum development in the 
! University and possibly also outside the 
I University, rather than simply good 
| classroom teaching. 
j Stearns is undoubtedly a fine recipi'(j | ent for this award. His contributions to 
1; j the University, since coming to Carnegie
I j Mellon in 1974, are numerous.
II Most students and faculty at Carnegie 
U | Mellon associate Stearns with his great
! achievement in research and teaching, 
! not with his finely honed tennis skills.1 I like them both (tennis and teach| ing). I would hate to have to choose
 | between them, and I find them intej grally related. I learn thing from stu::t | dents that help me in my research.... I11 think my teaching is better because I 
J | can incorporate some of the things Ive
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Dean Stearns received the Doherty award.
learned in my research, so I think its a 
real balance.
Stearns held the position as head of 
the History department from 1986 to 
1992, when he became dean of H&SS. 
During his years at Carnegie Mellon, he 
has combined his love of teaching with 
research. His research topics include 
emotions, old age, and masculinity, and 
he has published more than 45 books 
relating to his research. (However, he 
has yet to publish a book on the finer 
points of tennis. )Dean Steams contin
ues to delight in teaching, though, and 
throughout his years at Carnegie Mellon 
has taught more than 20 different 
courses.
I like dealing with students but the 
thing that I get the biggest kick out of is 
seeing students catch on. One of the 
reasons I like teaching freshman is you 
can really see students figure out what 
the heck youre after between the first 
part of the course and the end of the 
course... Thats the real achievement, 
Stearns said.
The Doherty Award is, perhaps then, 
a testament to Peter Stearns work at 
Carnegie Mellon over his years here and 
as dean of H&SS. It is an award given for 
his contributions in education, which 
he has shown through his research and 
his love of teaching. The Doherty Award 
is a great honor and I feel real gratitude 
to the colleagues Ive had and the stu
dents Ive worked with, said Steams.
Senate hopes to increase participation
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Acting Calendar Editor
As a student leader, I am often 
asked how students feel about a par
ticular issue. I would be more comfort
able passing these views on to the 
administration if students notified me 
of their concerns, said Gina Schuyler, 
student body president and a senior 
history and policy major.
The student government repre
sents the students. They elected us. 
We are their constituency, 
she added.
I want to let students 
know that there is an outlet 
in which they can voice their 
concerns. We have a place 
and a mechanism that 
serves to deal with these 
problems, said Schuyler.
The student government _______
is divided into two branches,  
the executive branch, which houses 
the president and the treasurer, and 
the Student Senate. The executive 
committees were created in order to 
foster a closer relationship between 
the President and the students, in 
hopes that the government could be 
aware of the new and developing cam
pus issues as they arise.
Focusing on student pride, the first 
of the executive committees deals with 
how it is depicted as an external and 
internal factor.
External pride refers to the name 
recognition of the University. Do we 
promote a unified school? How we pro
mote the image of CMU is the focus of 
this group, said Schuyler.
Internal pride can be broken down 
into two sub-categories, spirit and sup
port from within the campus commu
nity.
Schuyler feels that trying to bring
about change in this sense will be much 
more difficult than in the former.
Support, on the other hand, defines 
how students relate to one another and 
whether or not CMU exhibits any sort of 
community pride.
Schuylers area of interest is Academic 
Advising and the Career Center, looking 
at the disjuncture between the two iden
tities.
The career center seems to be focused 
on just one or two colleges, rather than 
the entire University, she said. There 
needs to be an outlet for the academic
"Its sad that students dont utilize ... 
forums to voice their opinions, because 
they exist for their benefit. 
 Gina Schuyler; student government
body president
needs and services of all students in 
each department, she added.
According to Schuyler the academic 
life of a student revolves around four 
central themes: career counseling, 
classes and scheduling, internships and 
the job search.
While academic advisors competently 
guide students with their classes, the 
other three are lacking strong direction 
from counselors.
The academic advisors do not have 
the means to find summer internships 
for students; thats the job of the career 
center, but students arent aware of how 
to make the most of such facilities, said 
Schuyler.
The purpose of the committee is to 
look into ways that those four needs can 
be met effectively, she added. Students 
that are interested in serving on these 
committees should contact Schuyler via 
email at gs3n.
Its sad that students dont utilize 
the committees and other forums to), 
voice their opinions, because they ex-1 
ist for their benefit, she said.  I think 
that a reason why may be that theyarent aware of what the school had tooffer, she added. By becoming in
volved in the student government, stu
dents can have a more direct contribu~~ 
tion on the decisions that affect them. 
I can direct your concerns to where^ 
your needs can be best met.
A member of the Student Senate^ 
and the chair of the Human Resources 
Committee, sopho-^ 
more industrial 
management majoiNI 
Brenden Mielke 
finds that student? 
apathy is definitely 
a problem on this-1 
campus. Student^ 
government is 
more than a big' 
wallet. I feel that ift; 
needs to be more proactive and sup->:. 
port programs that will really affect 
the student body, he said.
One such program would be the resurgence of Whats Eating Your' 
Mind?, a simulation of a big town^ 
meeting where students would getr' 
the opportunity to speak on present/ 
issues.
Another problem, according to^ 
Mielke, is that the University itself" 
doesnt utilize all that it has to offer.n 
Dining Services finds that one of itsr 
biggest drawbacks is is appearance. 
We have a wonderful industrial de->" 
sign department, he said. Why not1 
make use of it? (i
Student Senate is composed of rep-'' 
resentatives from each college. Stu-ri 
dents should know who their senators-1' 
are. In fact, there are still applications*: 
to fill vacancies within the senate,c 
said Schuyler.
Students deluged with information
What's up with that?
by Shiv Dewan
j I trudged over to Morewood yesjterday, with the futile and some| what indulgently naive premoni| tion that my mailbox might conI |tain a piece of personal mail.
| And by personal 
I dont mean: Dear 
Mr. Dewan, you 
have won the op
portunity to 
I win a million 
k dollars, or 
Ij i Be all you i 
| can be,
it comes to junk mail.
The tragedy is that snippets of 
information that may be of use 
invariably and unjustly suffer the 
same fate as junk mail: destined 
to be trashed.
Unfortunately, this deluge of 
junk mail is a mere trickle in 
comparison to the sea of point
less emails one is swamped with.
For example, most people know 
when its registration week; one 
doesnt need email from the 
registrars office. We are intoxi
cated by a torrent of information, 
and rather than wading through
!WM C
pin , ,the army. -6^.
Im sure there ^ 
are more deft ways to \ 
squander taxpayers 
money and reduce a forest 
to a couple of shrubs than ask
ing international students to 
join ROTC.
I reckon that in order to keep 
my mailbox chock full of ineffec
tual and frivolous debris for the 
past three years, at least one tree 
|Was massacred.
I The majority of mail (and I use 
the term mail loosely) that is 
thrust into my mailbox, goes 
directly from there to the over
flowing recycling bins.
11 Being provided with informait to find out if it might be of use, 
I tion is a good thing, but being we just let it rush by.
1 j drowned in it is quite another. As a result, it takes progresj|Had there been something imsively higher doses of color and 
| jportant in my mailbox, savor the hype for our mail to receive a 
> i concept, it probably would have second glance.
I j been swept straight into the blue There is a need to get informa-II plastic recycling vats, along with tion to people, but its ensuring 
|| those tacky publications that that it only gets to the people who
masquerade as college magaare interested that appears to be
actually stopped to read, or more 
accurately, decipher one of the 
bulletin boards on campus?
In a misguided attempt to 
counter this setback, posters have 
grown larger, more psychedelic 
and are attached to the boards 
with enough staples to put the 
new student center together.
There was a whisper last year 
about finding a solution to the 
bulletin board dilemma (dont 
look at me though. Ive already 
suggested the racks by the mail
boxes).
Information overload numbs 
the senses.
The only panacea is to turn the 
telephone ringer off, empty 
the fax machine of pa
per, drain the batter
ies from your cellu
lar phone and
Dancing divas break out at CMU
DANCE, from page LI
ballroom dancing a try.
He said, Anybody is welcome 
to join our club at any time. We 
teach about two dances for two 
weeks, then we move onto a 
different two. So if you come at 
anytime, you will really only 
miss at most a weeks worth of 
steps on that particular dance. 
And if you are having prob
lems, you can always ask some
one who can help you. The in. structors, TAs and any of the 
advanced dancers canbringyou 
up to speed or help.you through 
a difficult step.
It is evident that each ofthese 
individuals has made dancing 
an integral part of their lives.
Each has gained something 
emotionally and physically 
from dancing.
For Darby, dancing is a great 
spiritual experience in his life. 
He said, When I was little and 
first started dancing, everyone 
would make fun of me because I 
would always pick up the styles a 
year after they came out. I didnt 
really become a good dancer until 
I started raving. Its like going to 
raves and dancing is spiritual. I 
guess its because I put so much 
of me into it.
McClure agrees. She said, 
Dance definitely affects your con
fidence level, and it creates a con
sciousness of your body and its 
movement that wasn^there be
fore. A lot of sports and activities 
cant do that.
Culp said, Dance has given me 
the technique and the strength to 
express myself through move
ment. There is nothing more ex
citing than to choreograph or 
be in a piece that makes some
one smile, laugh, cry or think. 
Dance has always given me 
discipline and physical 
strength, but more than that, 
dance gives me freedom from 
stress and the excitement of 
creative expression that are 
so important in balancing my
life.
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
[jzines.
These magazines are in fact
this supposedly insurmountable 
stumbling block.
One option would be to install 
racks by the mailboxes that could 
easily be kept brimming with 
pamphlets  all youd have to do 
is pick up the ones that interest 
j does one really need to know, and you  but wait, maybe that 
j here I have a simple rule ofthumb: makes too much sense.
protracted and elaborate strings 
|iof advertisements for anything 
j i and everything that we havent 
J | the time for, or dont need.
Then there is the issue of what
ignorance is bliss, at least when When was the last time you
 .0
pager, unplug the 
. answering machine, 
disable your voice mail, and 
let your AFS quota fill up so your 
email bounces.
Whatever you do, dont look in 
your mailbox.
After graduating this December 
Shiv Dewan hopes to work in 
environmental consulting.... fail
ing that there's always the op
tion to get paid a pittance for 
licking stamps and sealing enve
lopes for bulk mailers.
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
FORUM TRAVEL 
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
j\\r. avib CM.rs. 'Patrick 'b. ^\bernathy 
are >leaseb to announce the marriage of their bait c\h ter 
<HoLLy Lee 
to
'bra rib on William amb 
son of Mr. anb Mrs. Q. 'William Lamb 
on Saturbay, the fourteenth of October 
Nineteen luinbreb anb ninety-fiVe in the St. Qeon\e L/0.5. Temple ;
Lee is a junior profesI sional writing major j 
who is also working towards a teaching ! certificate through jChatham College in > secondary education, as | well as a minor in music. \ 
She currently serves as  Activities Board 
Coffeehouse chair and \ works as a recording i 
engineer for the College i 
of Fine Arts and as loan ] 
coordinator assistant for j the Department of i 
Financial Aid.

---------------------------------------------------

be5n
vg you prtftr, call 617/353-98*.
FRANCE AUSTRALIA.
Global Internship and Language Programs
BOSTON
UNIVERSITY
International ProgramsFor program Utalh compltH Ihi coupon btlow and nail U to: Boston University International Programs 232 Day State Road, Box Q, Boston, MA 022IS  617/353-9B8B Intern!: abroad@btLedu  World Wide Web! http://web.bu.tdu/nbriMid An tqtal cfjwbuoly, affirmant* action intiitunon
i FRANCE AUSTRALIA ___RUSSIA ENGLAND
Pteaso rank u 1,2, and 3 the program In which you arc meat Interested. You will recelvc Information on all of our International program!.Internship Programs? London, England ? Pari, Prance? Madrid, Spain ? Sydney. Autoalla? Mo cow. Ruoli ? Washington, D.C.? Beijing. Chin
Language and Liberal Arts Programs? Belize? Grenoble, France? Haifa, Israel? Madrid, Spain? Dresden. Germ in yOlhtrprogramilcountriti in whicM I am i 
I would like to receive Information about your semejter/summer programs (circleN*me,_______________________________________________
Street_____________________________ City______________
State-------------Zip-------------- Phone .< \________
? Niamey, Niger? Oxford. England? Padova, Italy? Quito, Ecuador? Venice. Italy
int).
works for you.
To get the student
loan financing
you need now and
the repayment
options you may
need later, call
Citibank at
1-800-692-8200
and ask for
Operator 274,
send in the coupon
below, or visit your
schools Financial
O. arn aegieM l oegMnUvn snttyM 'MvSnguvid l C Nwiypng c119
CMU prepares to network in future with no wires attached
Focused on the 
Internet
by Kenton Shaver
You may have heard what the 
next big thing is in networking. 
Thanks to Computing Services 
personnel, Andrew is keeping 
pace with the wireless revolu
tion.
Technical Director John Leong, 
Operational Director Chuck 
Bartel, and Head of Data Com
munications Pete Bronder are 
among those who are hard at 
work enabling the Andrew Sys
tem to interface with wireless 
clients. I was lucky enough to 
speak with Dr. Alex Hills, vice 
provost for Computing Services, 
the leader of Wireless Andrew 
Project. I asked him to explain 
the origin of the project.
Dr. Hills: The Information 
Networking Institute, with which 
Im associated, started the initia
tive. We have a number of re
search projects going on that in
volve wireless and we needed a 
wireless system to use to test our 
work  a research infrastruc
ture you might say. The research 
is aimed at building software that 
will allow a mobile computer to
seemlessly switch between wire
less networks.
In order to support this work I 
wrote a proposal to the National 
Science Foundation to encourage 
building a wireless infrastructure 
on our cam pus. That was in March 
1994, and the proposal was 
funded beginning in September 
1994.
Fotl: So then your work is sepa
rate from the part of the wireless 
project concerned with self-diagnosing train cars, sponsored at 
CMUby a Germanindustrial con
cern?
Dr. Hills: That is a project 
funded by Daimler-Benz and be
ing done by the INI (Information 
Networking Institute). Its one of 
the research projects that the in
frastructure is intended to sup
port.
There are a number of wireless 
research projects  all of which 
will use the infrastructure in one 
way or another. We originally 
proposed to put the wireless units 
in just a few places on campus, 
but when we started investigat
ing available equipment, we 
found that we could get a lot more 
coverage than we originally 
thought. That was when we 
started to think about providing 
a service to the campus commu
nity.
Beginning in the 1994-5 school 
year, we did lots of investigations 
of equipment and selected a prod
uct to be installed on the campus. 
The installation started in June
1995 and we now have equip
ment installed in a few buildings, 
but its not tested yet. We plan to 
spend this fall testing what weve 
installed and, if things are work
ing properly, sometime this school 
year invite researchers and oth
ers who are willing to put up with 
possibly unreliable service, to 
begin to use the system. We will 
tell everyone, though, that this is 
just research infrastructure and 
it may take a while to make it a 
fully operational and reliable sys
tem. In other words, we dont 
want people to expect the kind of 
service they get from the Andrew 
system through the wired net
work.
Fotl: We are speaking of wire
less networked machines as in 
clusters or sensors to provide in
formation to the Andrew Systems 
users when we speak of the equip
ment installed in the buildings 
now?
Dr. Hills: Our goal is to pro
vide service to mobile computers, 
laptops, etc. We do that by in
stalling base station units 
throughout the campus that can 
communicate by radio with cards 
installed in the mobile comput
ers. The base stations are called 
access points and the computer
cards are called network inter
face cards. When all this is opera
tional, a user will be able to buy a 
card, plug it in to a laptop and, 
with the right software, use the 
campus network from the laptop 
by wireless. We have more work 
to do before we achieve this, but 
thats our goal.
FotI:Very exciting! Exactly 
how big a testing pool will be 
starting this semester?
Dr. Hills: It will probably take 
us at least the rest of this semes
ter to get the testing done. Then 
we may be able to invite between 
20 and 50 users to try out the 
system. I hope we can move on to 
a larger group after that. It really 
depends on how things go.
Fotl: How is this project differ
ent from a PPP [point-to-point 
protocol] or SLIP [serial line 
internet protocol] connection over 
a wireless modem? Or is it some 
sort of AFS [Andrew File System] 
software that you are speaking 
of?
Dr. Hills: When you talk about 
a wireless modem, you probably 
mean cellular. The campus wire
less network will be a much higher 
speed network  about 2 Mbps 
[million bits per second]. With a 
cellular modem you get 9.6 kbps
[thousandbits per second] more 
than 200 times less speed.
Fotl: Is the hardware  the 
PC cards that you mentioned  
in existence yet? 
Dr. Hills: Yes, theyre on the 
market. We hope to make it easy 
for CMU folks to get them. We 
may sell them through the com
puter store.
Fotl: So Bell Atlantic will not 
be involved? Wireless Andrew has 
no relation to the cellular net
work of the former?
Dr. Hills: Thats another as
pect of Wireless Andrew. We do 
have a way to get access through 
Bell Atlantics cellular service 
called CDPD (Cellular Digital 
Packet Data). While a few of us 
are using that, it may not be as 
useful for the larger community 
because you have to pay Bell At
lantic accordingto how much data 
you send. The high speed service 
Ive described will not involve any 
such charges.
There are two parts of Wireless 
Andrew  the on-campus high 
speed part and the wireless area 
(CDPD) low speed part. I think 
the high speed part will be of 
interest to most people and the 
wide area network eventually of 
interest to some if the arrange
ments can be made^ to pay BellJS 
Atlantic for the service. BotH aro^ w 
very experimental right now and 
were just feeling our way as we3 
decide exactly how to offer the * 
service to the campus commu-^ 
nity.
Fotl: Do you have any advice*" * 
to students now that need to pur* 
chase equipment for themsel.ve^pT 
as what to get and what to stay 
away from in order to take ad-'J. 
vantage of the Wireless Andrew^ 1 
project?
Dr. Hilis: Thats a good ques^ 
tion. Of course there are manjr. 
considerations in buying a com-j, 
puter and this is only one of them. 
But I should say that we pres.-" 
ently have Wireless Andrew^ 
working on PC-type machines*-.. 
We are working with our vendor * 
to come up with a Mac solution111 
for using the wireless infrastructure.
That is in development and may y j 
be available later this school year. 
We think this is very important ' 
because there are so many Mac^'" 
being used by students. \ .
[NoteiTo be continued, next week],^
Kenton Shaver is a senior En-,r 
glish major.
tab
^0
ARE YOU A TWIN?
Join Pitt Twin Study 
Healthy twins ages 18-27 may qualify 
 Earn over $80 each 
____________Call 624-9106____________
You mean 
a student 
loan lender | 
cares what #| 
happens 
M me after 
Graduation?!?
You can count
on Citibank
for the best in
college financing 
before and after 
graduation. We
offer our student
loan borrowers
new, flexible 
repayment options. 
That means after 
graduation, you 
can find a place
to work and a
student loan
payment that
Caned the flight to Seattle, 
because weve goi music 
that* grungier than your 
oldest pair of BVDs. 
lt^ a very hip selection of 
new and used CDs. plus rare 
releases and imports.
So drop by CD Trader and 
check it out. Because 
at our prices, you could 
really clean up.
I (TRADER. Used CDs At Record Prices
1---201 South Craig St.. Oakland 6K7-6626
Thats why 
Citibank
student loans 
have new, 
flexible 
repayment 
options.
PLEASE SEND ME APPLICATIONS FOR 
THE FOLLOWING STUDENT LOANS:
? Citibank Federal 
Stafford Loan
(subsidized and unsubsidized)
? Citibank Federal PLUS Loan
(for parents of dependent students only)
Q Citibank Graduate 
Loan Program
(for graduate students of all disciplines 
- please indicate your field of study) 
MAILTHIS COUPON TO:
Citibank (NYS)
Attn: The Student Loan Corporation 
P.O. Box 22948 
Rochester, NY 14692-2948
L1-800-692-8200 and ask for 
Operator 274.
I OR CALL 
I Operatoi j VISIT OU
Address
CitvState
Telephone
VISIT OUR WEB SITE at http://www.loci.com/HO/village/Cltlbank/CSLC.html
Social Security #_______________________ . _r ~
You are currently: ? an undergraduate student D a graduate student 
Year of graduation_________________________
If you are a graduate student, please indicate the field of study you are pursuing:
? Business (MBA) ? Medicine (allopathic and osteopathic studies)
? Engineering ? Nursing
? Other (please specify) CITIBANK^O ICode 275

---------------------------------------------------

arn aegieM l oegMnUvn snttyM 'MvSnguvid l C Nwiypng c119O9
Mentoring program helps 
freshman adjust to CMU
By KAORIAOYAMA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Mentoring for Academic Success in 
H&SS is a new program that is being 
developed for H&SS freshmen this se
mester.
The program involves linking fresh
man who have academic or social diffi
culties with successful upperclassmen 
who can be their mentors.
The freshmen and his or her mentor 
would meet about once a week to discuss 
problems or homework.
Life at CMU is undoubtedly stressful 
with mid-terms just around the comer 
in addition to the usual assignments 
and activities.
For freshman, there is also the pres
sure of fitting in to the CMU social life, 
inforeseen problems can arise, both aca
demically and socially, and mentoring 
can help to deal with these issues.
Debby Gerhardt, assistant director for 
the program, described freshman year 
as a transition period in which the 
college must be sensitive to the stu
dents needs and problems.
A mentor-freshman relationship 
WGuld be beneficial in making reality 
checks for these students. It would also 
establish a network in which mentor 
and freshman could work together as a 
network or unit, said Gerhardt.
Thus, a connection is the key in build
ing a good relationship between the 
mentor and student. It also establishes 
connections within the college itself.
Gerhardt believes that there are many 
advantages to creating student-mentor 
relationships.
From a freshman perspective, having 
an older student to talk to about his or 
her college experience can be very ben
eficial.
The junior or senior has gone through 
basically the same experiences as the 
freshman and can therefore offer his or 
her insights and suggestions.
This help could range from getting 
advice on what English course to sign up 
for to how to manage ones tim, to 
finding the best place for authentic Japa
nese cuisine.
Secondly, Gerhardt believes that a 
mentor would gain the satisfaction of 
helping another student. This may not 
seem like much of an incentive, but the 
fact that a freshman student will look 
up to the upperclassman may be fruit
ful in many ways.
The mentors are chosen principally by 
how successful they are academically as 
well as socially, but upperclassmen 
(mostly juniors and seniors, although 
there are a couple of sophomores), be
come mentors by personal motivation 
and by the desire to help incoming fresh
man.
The mentors will go through a train
ing program in which they will meet 
once a week with other mentors. They 
will discuss how the program is coming 
along, and what can be done to improve 
it.
So far, student sentiments about the 
program are enthusiastic. Its a good, 
fresh idea, said Seung June Oh, a jun
ior economics and policy management 
major.
Upperclassmen overwhelmingly feel 
that there are many benefits of such a 
program for freshmen.
Its important to help those who need 
help... helping our community is a good 
idea, said Tara Urspruch, a senior psy
chology major and education minor.
However, although there were many 
positive remarks about mentoring, many 
upperclassmen wished to become men
tors, but simply could not find the time 
to dedicate to the program.
With my schedule at this moment... 
its impossible, said Tony Lamanna, a 
senior double major in policy and politi
cal science.
Angeline Tang, a junior history and 
IM major, expressed that "... the fresh
men might be intimidated by the upper
classmen.
Some freshmen also commented that 
they did not need the aid of a mentor to 
adjust to university life at this point in 
time.
Right now I dont have any questions. 
Everything is clear, and I dont feel as if 
I need one [a mentor], said Mike Lin, a 
freshman prospective IM major.
Women played key role in strikes
Cracking the Myth
by Suzanne Paddock
Pittsburgh is known for its union 
history, as its copious steel mills and 
coal mines were practically omnipres
ent at one time.
But the union history of strikes and 
organizations we know today is the 
history of the men of Pittsburgh in the 20th century.
There were, __________________
however, strik
ing pioneers 
who protested 
and organized 
several decades 
before steel 
mills even existed in Pittsburgh. These strikers 
were highly successful demonstrators 
who were quite effective in gaining 
worker demands. Their example 
helped to set the precedent of organiz
ing in this area. These strikers were 
women  women who worked in the 
cotton mills starting in 1825.
Pittsburgh was agog Monday, July 
31,1848, when the news spread that 
an army of axe-wielding females had 
taken the Penn Cotton factory in neigh
boring Allegheny City by storm and 
routed the Sheriff and his posse and 
the Allegheny City Police (The Al
legheny City Cotton Mill Rio of1848, 
Western Pennsylvania Historical 
Magazine, vol. 46; page 97, Calvert).
Scenes such as this one of angry 
women workers may seem an anomaly 
to us, but actually our good ole Ameri
can history has failed to teach us the 
whole picture.
One can only imagine what these 
striking women would be called today, 
probably militant lesbian bitches who 
all have PMS. It remains that these 
women and not men struck out against
their employers and against the harsh 
discrimination that faced them.
Conservatives, Republicans, Chris
tians, and whoever else blames the 
breakdown of the family on women who 
work outside the homes, create a huge 
misconception. Women have always 
worked, always toiled for their liveli
hood and their families, and always re
ceived less pay than men.
So why are we led to believe that 
women have always existed in the home 
and thereby are incapable of handling 
outside responsibilities delegated to 
men?
We are lead to believe this because we 
have learned the history of white middleclass families in which women stayed at 
home after they were married. Unfortu... it remains that these women and not men 
struck out against their employers and against 
the harsh discrimination that faced them.
nately, this history comprises only a 
minority of the people who have lived. 
They still only comprise a minority of 
real people. Yet, because of their afflu
ence and prestige we are led to believe 
that their way of life is the right and only 
way to live.
The truth is the majority of women 
have always worked outside and inside 
of the home. The income they provided 
was just as necessary to put food on the 
table then as it is now. However, society 
was unable to accept the importance of 
their contributions to the family; after 
all, men are supposed to be the bread
winners and women the homemakers.
Women workers were thought to be 
temporary workers who quit work when 
they got married and, subsequently, 
pregnant.
For most working-class mothers 
though, work didnt decrease with child
birth  it increased.
Not only did they care for their chil
dren and their husbands, but they also 
generated income by taking on sewing, 
laundry, or cleaning jobs.
Despite their enormous workload and
valuable contributions, women were 
thought to be secondary workers and 
were paid less. In 1848, men working 
in the Pittsburgh cotton factories made 
about $7.50 a week while women made 
anywhere from $2 - 6 a week. When 
the women at the Penn Cotton factory 
decided to strike, they protested a wage 
reduction, and it was not the first they 
experienced.
These women also protested in 1843 
and 1845. They continually had to 
fight for their secondary wages, all the 
while never making as much as men, 
thereby failing to be recognized by 
society as legitimate workers.
1,500 people assembled only after 
several hours on the morning of the 
Penn Cotton Mill riot of 1848, most of
------------------------ them women. A
mob formed, and 
rocks, punches 
and water were 
thrown on just 
about everybody. 
_About 20 women 
were arrested and 
ar-aigned on charges of assault.
Despite the fact that none of the 
women had any say in any legislation 
against them or any say in the judge 
elected to determine their verdict, 
these women, with the prompting of 
the judge, were regarded as equal with 
men before the law. Many of the women 
were found guilty and fined. Some 
were acquitted.
These women were part of an early 
tradition of striking that was later 
attributed solely to the men of steel 
mills years later. Yet history has ne
glected them like so many other white 
women and non-white men and 
women.
By recognizing the accomplishments 
of such people whose lives and 
struggles have been ignored, cultur
ally constructed notions of inferiority 
will be realized for what they are: lies 
made to cover up the insecurities of 
those who have written the history 
books.
Suzanne Paddock is a senior English 
major.
Brady Bunch actress to speak 
about Birth Control Matters
By SHANNON GIBNEY
Tartan Features Co-Editor
Maureen McCormick, who 
played the role of Marsha Brady 
in the hit series The Brady Bunch, 
will come to CMU to give a semi
nar called Birth Control Mat
ters. The lecture will take place 
on Thursday, October 5th, at 5 
pm in the Tent (located on the 
Cut).
McCormicks speech will ad
dress issues concerning contra
ception and is co-sponsored by 
the AB Lecture Committee and 
the Family Health Council, Inc. 
Well talk about all the available 
es of birth control, sexual is
sues in relationships, communi
cation issues, etc., said 
McCormick.
Birth Control Matters is a 
national program which was es
tablished in 1993 to address wide
spread ignorance of contracep
tive methods and use. A survey 
taken the same year found that 
percent of women think that 
there s a need for sexual educa
tion. These results were the im
petus for the creation of Birth 
Control Matters.
The Upjohn Company, manufectorers of the Depo-Provera 
Contraceptive Injection, sponsors 
both the survey and the seminar.
Q: How would you describe 
the lecture?
A: Its a free seminar. Its basi
cally geared for a college campus, 
but everybodys welcome. Weve 
sen doing this for three years. 
Yhats great is that its really 
faking an impact. There is a 
M.estion and answer session af
ter the seminar, and everyone 
j8ays that theyre going to reevaluate their behavior and make
Courtesy of Upjohn Co.
Maureen McCormick will give a seminar on birth control on Thursday.
We try to go to places where we 
wink theres a need, where we 
think we can draw a crowd. We 
ry to visit all the major colleges 
universities in the country.
Weve visited at least 20-30 col
leges and universities so far.
Q: Why are you involved in 
this program?
A: Ive always been involved in 
things that I really believe in. I 
really believe that unplanned 
pregnancy is a problem that must 
be addressed.
There are 3.5 million un
planned pregnancies every year, 
and half of these are to women 
who thought that they were pro
tected. Therefore, I think its very 
important to make sure that 
people are informed, that they 
know the facts so they can make 
the best choice for themselves.
On a personal level, Ive had 
friends that have had unplanned 
pregnancies. Thats something 
that can really affect a persons 
life.However, I really believe that, 
through education, these prob
lems can be solved.
Q: Why do you think that 
unplanned pregnancies are 
such a big problem?
A: I think this [sex] is an area 
that people are embarrassed to 
talk about. Its basically a com
munication issue. I think when 
people are in an intimate rela
tionship, they need to talk about 
these issues.I think it [teenage 
pregnancy] has become an epi
demic, but what I heard on the 
news yesterday is exciting: the 
number of teenage pregnancies 
is going down. Through programs 
such as ours, theyll continue to 
go down. Communication is an 
issue that we really need to stress.
Q: What have you done since 
the Brady Bunch series?
A: Ive had different acting 
roles, I got married, I had a child.
I also was in a Broadway play, 
which has always been a dream 
of mine.
I was Rizzo in Grease. Ive also 
been singing and recording coun
try music. Ive been touring the 
country doing concerts for that.
Q: Why are you an authority 
on these issues (of contracep
tion)?
A: Its amazing what Ive 
learned since I joined the pro
gram. Basically, all I knew before 
was that unplanned pregnancy 
is a problem.
CMU reading series provides 
outlet for creative expression
D., DtI*r>H,fTT A _____________________-i-1____  J t,-------------------------------\  I-............................ I.By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Acting Calendar Editor
In an attempt to create an 
outlet for creative writers, ama
teurs as well as threshold pro
fessionals, CMUs Department 
of Creative Writing has once 
again commenced its a student 
reading series. This years se
ries is entitled Yesterdays 
Tortillas, This Year.
It comes from a poem by 
Jimmy Santiago Baca, said 
Emily Pihlquist, a junior cre
ative and professional writing 
major who is directing the pro
gram this year.
Pihlquist hopes to expand to 
readers outside of the depart
ment and also support writers 
who wish to gain experience in 
presenting their pieces to the 
public.
To have your work pub
lished, its becoming a neces
sity to read in public, she 
added. The series gives stu
dents that opportunity to be
come comfortable in a group 
setting.
While last years series was 
held at the Forbes Gallery, the 
first two readings this year took 
place at Caf Mocha, a local 
coffee shop located on Forbes 
Ave.
The first reader began at 7 
pm. Judging from the turnout, 
which ranged from 35 to 40 
people each night, the change 
in location did not hurt student 
involvement.
The gallery seemed to be too 
intimidating of a place to hold 
the series, said Pihlquist. 
First of all, not everyone knows 
where or what it is. When I first 
read at the series, I was so 
scared, and I think a lot of it 
had to do with the gallery at
mosphere.
The cozy room filled to maxi
mum proportions last Tuesday
as students gathered to hear from 
Kevin Meehan, Kathyryn 
Dyreyes, and Patrick Conlin, all 
of whom are English 
majors. While 
Conlin attests that* 
his hands were 
shaking as he read, 
it was obvious that 
the air lacked the pre
tense and tension 
that usually ac
companies such 
events.
D e s p i t 
Pihlquists 
satisfaction 
with Caf 
Mocha, it 
is still in 
debate 
whether, 
to move 
the ser i e s 
back to 
the Forbes 
Gallery.
Were going 
to hand out 
surveys at the 
next reading 
to see how 
people would 
feel about 
moving the lo
cation, she 
said.
Although 
there are a few 
non-majors 
who read at 
the past two 
readings, 
the major
ity came from 
within the 
partment.
Were really looking for fiction 
writers right now. Everyone 
seems to be a poet at this school. 
Were open to poetry, prose, 
screenplay, anything. Its a fo
rum for all new works by under
graduates, said Pihlquist.
At first, a new reader might 
be hesitant at the idea of read
ing at the series in front of 
students from the department 
and a few professors as 
well, but Pihlquist 
claims that its a very 
nonthreatening scene.
This isnt a workshop 
to critique work. Its just 
an outlet for students to 
read their work and 
gain the support of 
their peers, she 
said.
To help publi
cize the event, 
WRCT taped 
the reading 
with the in
tention of 
putting to
gether a 
collage of 
works by 
various au
thors, that will 
be featured dur
ing a new show, 
On Caffeine, 
that airs from 7- 
p.m. on Thurs
days.
[The station] 
really wants 
what I want. 
They want to en
courage commu
nity and CMU 
writers, said 
Pihlquist.
Along similar 
lines, an an
thology chapbook will be 
published as 
an informal 
compilation of 
student work and works of writ
ers in the area.
CMU has one of the stron
gest [creative writing] depart
ments in the country, said 
Pihlquist. We really need to 
promote it as such.

---------------------------------------------------

Calvin eMF Hobbespd Rvtt TeiinguyM
HOT EMERSONE CM GET A 
FULL ISOMETRIC WORKOUT 
JV3ST B'f lAWNlNG. r_
CeVlCWSLS. 1 NEED A, ILL A00 MORE 
A COOLER LETTERHEAD ) LMKE-TOTM 
LP&o. J TIGERS ARO*
s'---\ THE CALNIN 
1 \ SHIELD.
WHAT'S THE 
PR03LEM?
'fOU BET/ VMEtt 
DO THE< PASS, OUT 
THE GASOLINE ?
AND SO. AFTER A THREE 
MINUTE. DOWNPOUR, HE 
BECAME LODICROOSLW 
ATTIRED FOR THE REST 
OF THE DM.
P hotb tybHHa hHral 
dCsinn;ie pwe;m;ef
RIGHT NOW/
TO MAKE A BAD DM WORSE. 
SPEND IT YUSHIN FOR 
THE IMPOSIBLE.
UH OU, I FEEL A 
SNEEZE. COMING ON.
AAA / NO TISSUE / No 
HANK'i ' I.. AH. AH.. AH .V^cHOo/
OF M"< LIMITED OPTIONS. 
THIS WAS PROSALI' THE. 
WORST
)oonesburyBY GARRY TRUDEAU
I'M TOO OU?FOR. THIS! 20 
YEARS AGO, IiWUUP'VE 
JUST GRABBED MY mS5PORT 
ANPKRVGERRANPS, BLOWN 
UPTHE HOUSE. ANPESCAPEP 
\ INA HAIL OF GUNFIRB   
UJE CANT L5TTHIS HAPPEN! 
PUKS MEANS EVERYTHING 
TOUS, ANI?WE HAVE TO 
MAKBITOEARTDTHE 
SHERJFF THAT IF 
HE HJANTSTD 
TAKEPUK3,
HE'S GONNA 
HAVETD6ET 
PAST US FIRST!
ANYOUESTIONS?
UZ RE NOT GoiNioier 
THE SHERJFF TAKE 
YOU, PAP! NO MJAY! 
I GOT EVERSONE 
PUMPLV, TOTALLY 
y FTREP!
DILBERT  by Scott Adams
WERE HAVING 
AN 150 9000 
AUDIT THIS 
WEEK.
I'VE BEEN HIRED 
BY YOUR COfAPANY 
TO PERFORM AN 
ISO 9000 AUDIT
HLPvL ARE THE RESULTS 
OF /AY 150 ^000 
AUDIT OF YOUR 
COMPANY.
TAKE. A LOOK AT YOUR 
DOCUMENTED JOB 
DESCRIPTIONS AND 
MAKE SURE THAT IT'5 
WHAT YOU'RE DOING 
IF THE AUDITOR ASKS.
BASICALLY, YOU GIVE 
ME MONEY AND I 
TELL YOU THAT YOURE 
A BUNCH OF DOLTS. 
ITS THE PERFECT JOB 
FOR fAE.
V
YOUR EMPLOYEES ARE 
LARGELY UNTRAINED 
AND - I COULDN'T 
HELP NOTICE" FAIRLY 
UNATTRACTIVE.
TELL f\E 
WHAT YOU 
DO HERE, 
ALICE, IF 
THfO-'S 
YOUR REAL 
NAME
TfA AN ENGINEER. 
I MAKE SLIDES 
THAT PEOPLE " 
CAN'T REAL. 
SOMETIMES I 
EAT DONUTS.
HOWEVER, THEY 
ARE ALSO 
HIGHLY SKILLED 
LIARS, SO 
YOU PASSED 
THE AUDIT 
EASILY.
WE SUCCEED 
WHERE IT 
COUNTS !HV
PWJOOCTI'^
KT lAST III
\l/ tvf^c! 
SIS
ALICE SITS IN FOR THE BOSS
I WILL APPROVE 
YOUR EXPENSE 
VOUCHER ON ONE 
CONDITION.
V
YOU MUST SLAY THE 
CREATURE WHO STALKS 
THE OFFICE AT NIGHT 
AND EATS OUR HIDDEN 
SNACKS!!!
YOU'RE AAKLNG A BIG 
MISTAKE. I'M NO 
ORDINARY MOUSE. IF 
YOU KISS ME I'LL TURN 
INTO A PRINCE!!!
OID I SAY "PRINCE"?
L fAEANT I'D BECOME 
THE SYMBOL FOR THE 
PERFORMER FORMERLY 
KNOWN AS 
PRINCE. HA HA 
"HA!! GET IT?

---------------------------------------------------

BY HIROMI HA5AGAWA
THEN ONE DAT 
APHRODITE
e;inn;ie;dfff
UHr yvlRS OEHh bHh 
NWArSopra tbW otL we 
hHH MUCH SHE NEEDS YtXJR
THEA ANt> RHNV oAlum
COME, Vtx> WON'T BE 
DISAPPOINTED.
YOU MUST 
SO TOILIOS, 
THE CAPITAL 
ClTf OF 
TROY.
BUT I'VE ALREADY 
TOLD YOU THAT 
IM EN<qA6Et> TO 
elisone, RI6HT HERE,
AND I, 
HAVE NO 
INTENTI OH 
OF 60lNfe 
TO ILIOS, 
ANYWAY.
YOU MUST
niDsL ,wg3e;5
DESTINED TO \ 
MEET HELEHJ 
THE (WISED, 
BEAUTY.
ipSE
never! YOO CMT
FORCE ME ID OBEY YOtf 
JOST BECAUSE YtXJStff 
IM DESTINED 
TD DO SO.!
IF YOU 
WANT HER SACK 
COME TO ILIOS,
MY HANDSOME CNE,
I DON'T
cm ffiw
amfmpg
,Dm;
TRANSFORMED 
HERINTO 
AN ANIKAL.!
IV-I WOULDN'T 
HAVE PONE 
THIS, IF 
Yoo -SPnmpmk 
nh TD
TO THE CITY 
OF
ILI OS!/
Ifo gg OttTlsUET>......
T-rW* 1
rr~r M
mmm
EPISODE t DAMIEL YMJOA
"FIN WEAPONS OF WAR AMUR E/IL." LAonv/TAp itH anno"
'LET MCSHOl/YOU TO VoUR ROO/lf IMAGINE MT SMPRlSEjANP LUCK. IH BEIN CoMTMTB BY ym AGENCY SO UNEXPECTEDLY'A MAID, AHD ALL IT COSTS IS ROOM AHD BOAHO/ WELL, I JVST HAP TO JVM PAT TMf
I
f^GopiSSAKE, KEN, ) 
PsiTHAVEA cow.
IT^S lAYGIpi-FRIEMDvK 
AiASHl SUZUKI/ I ;
ahlm ywfce nor iTR/ifi& to sexxjce rte 
SaJ&THEreEeOE SI6UM./
(^WyeORPP-EAMS
r+ Jwn;
tHlCKS
Nor, 'CAUSE 
ARE ALWAYS
.yiNjG /Ji/T
LOOK, ioo HoRuy 6ooF,e 90,I s5PIrf IH dsast
yauTHis uVAhh nAlA&hAS
rsHypfeRcy erh yacd
, AuB'noM'JAiPE: ARE.. 
\myiM6 Vo kill youf
O
I ft?
I!
UNIO,ly
3o Go/n' 'ho + he
Cas ile
by Robe^-i .Slater
TtveAiV FvF y<M m  a n when you said +he 
ESLnnM jvtt gn\tnwi jrei wron^i fhe 
| jMF K
"The Queen')] 
vu tVMJnF
iy )Grn tegie( 
-ng tv\n qnd hedtt-H wa " FMF Wa/i as . r+* does*.
/^wywAy, co&cy pc;
you CAM 6<J BA TO 
youe HORtfDOO 
S fenwelp,1 n982
A^
t
o -;iZuL ugs/ cis/
WEEK THERE WAS 
THKr RSH,4tol6\Sr OP 
HEREWHASSISWAVAE, 
FHlUpiiHBAReo oR 
SOMETW^- /
W)mmm m t m. ^
\
SpEAT/AND NOW, CM TOP 
OF EVEft.ymiN6, yooVE c50TY*0fiS(-F Klt^APPfP^ 
^EESH/ ^
Ac
li + Orfttlei 
are be'* g  
5 r u p+ edy 
Vheh **he Qm eii w*ll 
Show S ino  I a 
hr> a I ad
Do t-hihk 
' ^'s j Mt + he 
. Orqclei?
1 b-HJ Ja hJ /A '

---------------------------------------------------

Nakfai/<*
CSNiRAil
B udget( 
Ff U&K!
SIR, VB MR C0NC9RNZD
P/PYOU TELL YOUR 
s^l FAMiLY?_ 
I JVST Kl LL&P MY 
WIFE; MY HVC,H19P, 
ANP MY 50N.
Lift IN
a,vUM8ILICAL-CORP FREPCK CASClKTO, JR.Bi^rr
SRoFuiijr-,ACTUALLY, TH15 OfVEL Kl NP OF MAPSSENSE. THERE WAS THIS WAlTlNtROOM ANP SOME ORC-Ail PONOR HAP TO WAIT FOR THE PEOPLE WHO HAP HU ORtAWS to PIE so THAT HE coVLP &ET THEM RACK. AnothE* &UY COULPN'T REMEMBER HIS SOCIAL S&CUHiT'r' A/UM8ER So HE HAP To WAIT FOR HIS WIFE TO PIE so TH/JT HE CoULP A5K HER 
FOR IT. A NP THERE WAS THIS
cCal endr .L d1d4iv gdln6ENtllsH. SHE HAP TO WAIT port A TRANSLATOR Tt> SHOW V/p.
GUESS WHAT, SAM 1 LAST NI&HT 
X PREAMT THAT X PlEP AW 
WENT TO HEAVEN A&AiN. >
ANOTHER THIN& A8&UT HEAVEN IS THAT THEY WOW'T LET YOU IN WITHOUT SOME XJ. 5o YOU BETTER have ioME T.p. ON YOU WHEN YOU PRO P PEA P. "TOHfJ POE" TUST vvojJ'T CUT IT. THERE WERE. LIKE 
Sl* OF TEM UP T*ERE.
'i'M c.oosumeo'' a-3 FEA&. 1 DO*JT ?low ulMtVT TO DO.
TELL ME HLL ftWUT IT.I'M AFR&IO OF EvJEWTHIHG^I'M AFBAip OFBEIJ& ynuiveo.
f Another one of
THOSE WE1RP 
^ DREAMS, HUH?
By etiKiGMlSiWPERSTOCO.rA ftpawo ByLAAUREN FoouSH.I'M AFBft'O OF &&M6 HU6.T.f IM RFBftiO OF UORTl-JG OTMf p;.
fe7QH')5' mcmus^Mre,T.
(Y'ou^E RlG-HT. THIS PREAM 
{ MAKES A J-ct ox: szfi>S\
WHAT WAS IT?Spot Sos 9t B9wk Spkf TD Bkct tpk So9t9fy uLLah
^ x dLMU 64L.I \\ \THEY WOUHW'T LET \\ME OUT BECAUSE I \\
X. PIPN'T KNOW THE / \\V PASSViORP. / >4
IM AFRR'POF M*i PESTQUCTWEIMPULSE?. .
'IM QFRA1P OF M3 Su&cooitioor.
'I'M ACCa'OOF SOyi*JGTHE 
ujoooc.
IMRFRAlOOF 
EWOIWG Up ftlOHE.
CHEESE-POOPLES.TH^Y W0MLp'T LET ONB 6UY OUT BECAUSE HE PIPA"T HAVE A CrARA6- pooR OPENER. 7
i'TM AF8AI0 Sou 
QtOU.1 OMUJUSEft 6ATM, STMKtV^J.
''IM AFBAlP OF BEJECTloO.htp :t /web .wud
uyac& lDP. BwF ki^rf THE 
WVioLE STPrTJo/J! tTffY 
UjofOlT' SAV yD taDRe 
2Aly yaey Tyul e 
"vw6i=Tft.*J PtAJWSVn/ftNi A 
\ |KJT)UGT(2.| Ai|AEAMlVH|L&/ ArT Tw&t pw6u1 4D.Ueyy 
fVNA (2-Pfi>lo , __________
"wEVrviLtO
l^Dasro.1,7 .gg.
Must g,t ^JEsTifO 6nciw.se'! 
LuonJl 6|2juP W/
(you) THIfJlC St>7
WHftT'S 
i >J J
oiJ i
wheae Are the Piles of noweV/ \ u/as
Ti>Lj RA1ZIh STTTlo/OS MADE PILES
OouT SEEM Tb PlLCS
snx&x wTTCTmr Itwwtj /^Tri 7^ AO I Mo.../ daKL-il
No Pile, of Houew/ 
PvuRlforfr^EW... EveRVokjE 
W 7wAT ltttle 6inw,..MES/ 
Y^ clolous! ^on'di fiaeo j 
j 1 s----------
DooMeU 1 s. VTY
S'U(?.E:./ Soy, T^IU6.'ll be a 
U>T MoftE ppoFt>Si o*jAL A(2ohhD 
. H6I26,.. Uootc I A LIMO is
n?hlu>m6 uP oarst-oe! >
Tb THt 
feAT^ 
aql-rq1uO

---------------------------------------------------

All graphics courtesy of The Tartan
Volume 90, Issue 5
DIVERSIONS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania2 October 1995
Pi,FnMiu wryyun 5egvf,eMeL OPD \yg uywvet \,M
By ERIC SALZMAN
i Tartan Diversions Editor 
& ENA KHAN 
I Tartan Assistant Diversions Ed.
j [Ed. note: Due to the nature of 
I thishtory, all student names have 
I been replaced with. aliases.The 
I Tartan does not in any way conI done, promote, or approve of the 
| purchase, sale, or use of illegal 
K substances.]
While alcohol may still be the 
| most popular drug on college 
| campuses across America, other 
1 drugs get their share of attention
 too. Carnegie Mellon is no excepI tion; drugs being used here by 
I students range from marijuana I to heroin.
Just about everyone knows that 
I drugs are dangerous and illegal, 
but a fact about drugs that often 
gets overshadowed is that the 
majority of people who do them, 
do them for fun.
Drugs have both an adventurI ous and social appealthey may 
I be illegal, but few CMU students
decide not to experiment merely 
because of the law. You may find 
the number of students at CMU 
who use drugs to be quite sur
prising.
Almost everybodys doing it
With drunken fools openly 
chugging and puking all over cam
pus, there is little secret to just 
how many people on campus 
drink. Drugs, because of their 
illegal status, require more low 
key usage. Students arent likely 
to be so comfortable dropping a 
tab of acid as they would be drink
ing a beer; therefore, an accurate' 
estimate of just how many 
Carnegie Mellon students use 
drugs is difficult to make.
Roman, a sophomore, said, We 
[Romans friends] figured last 
year that about 80 percent of the 
campus does marijuana or has 
done it ... its just our guess be
cause everyone we run into does 
it or has done it. Stan, also a 
sophomore, had an estimate that 
was just a bit lower. I hang out 
with a pretty mixed crowd, and at
least two-thirds of the people I 
know have at least tried it [mari
juana].
James Lapaglia, chief of Cam
pus Police, said he doesnt be
lieve its [drug use] as widespread 
as some people would think ... 
[or] we would come across it 
more. While he did say that drug 
use at CMU has gone up in the 
past couple of years at about the 
same rate as the increase in drug 
use nationwide, he also said that 
he would like to think its a small 
minority. However, according to 
students like Cliff and Stan, the 
percentage of CMU undergrads 
using some illegal substance at 
least occasionally, is no minority.
24 hours a day
Cliff, a junior, has a drug res
ume including marijuana, acid, 
morning glory seeds, and ecstasy. 
He said that at one point in his 
academic career, he was on pot 
24 hours a day during the week, 
while saving other drugs for the 
weekend. The DEA campaign is 
true, he said. Pot is a gateway
drug and it leads to other drugs.
Indiga, a freshman, disagreed 
about marijuana leading to other 
drugs, claiming that she hasnt 
done any drugs other than mari
juana, and she has been smoking 
marijuana for years.
The question of whether or not 
marijuana leads to other drugs 
can most likely only be answered 
by the individual, as it comes 
down to a question of personal 
curiosity and desire. You take a 
series of steps to what is hard
core, Cliff said. Whereas he once 
thought of an acid hit as hard
core, he has now dropped acid 
about 15 times... Now I see heroin 
addiction as hard-core.
Cliff explained another hallu
cinogen called morning glory 
seeds. They are the seeds of the 
morning glory vine which he de
scribed as having pretty white 
and blue flowers.
The seeds are ground and drunk 
in a foul tasting brew ... they 
m ake you sick and then they m ake 
you trip, Cliff said, its different 
from an acid trip. An acid trip
peaks in three or four hours but a 
morning glory trip takes eight to
10 hours.
I woke up and there were red 
and silver walls crawling around 
in my peripheral vision, he said 
about his first psychedelic expeSave it for the weekend
Acid has the biggest side effect 
of all the drugs that Ive used and 
thats just being strung out ... 
which is why its not good to do it 
on a school night, Sam, a sopho
more, said. Marijuana on the 
other hand, is weekday-approved 
by Sam. Sometimes with mari
juana Ill grab a bowl during the 
week and bake. And it, like, gets 
me up in the morning. I have a 
9:30 am class. If I have a bowl 
there to smoke when I get up, Ill 
smoke it. And I have to stay awake 
to smoke it. If I didnt have that 
there, Id just turn off the lights 
and go back to sleep.
Like Sam, Indiga has no prob
lem with smoking during the 
Please see RECREATION, page L13
Medical vs. practical
Marijuana "Marijuana, pr6- 
duced by the hemp plant, is a drug 
that is taken to produce a high pr 
euphoric feeling and a state of re
laxation. The high will last two to 
four hours. The short term effects 
of marijuana include distortion of 
time perception, increased heart 
rate, dilation of blood vessels, arid 
loss of short term memory.... In 
men, marijuana use caused lowr 
levels of the sex hormone test
osterone, and an increase in abnor
mal sperm."  American College 
Health Association
"It makes me really tired arid 
mellow.  Bob
"If you can grow a flower, you can 
grow marijuana."  Roman
 Everyone who smokes weed arid 
a lot of people who don't, think it 
should be legalized. There's a lot of 
politics involved in it."  Indiga
Hallucinogens Drugsthat pro
duce hallucinations or dream-like 
perceptions are called hallucino
gens. The most common hallucino
gens are LSD (acid), mescaline 
(peyote), psilocybin (mushrooms), 
and PCP (angel dust). These drugs 
have an effect that lasts from eight 
to 12 hours, to days, depending on 
the potency of the drug. Some
times panic reactions occur, pro
ducing horrifying perceptions.... Al
though there is no physical or psy
chological dependence associated 
with these drugs, they are still con
sidered dangerous because of their 
paradoxical effects.  American 
College Health Association
LSD, It's not how anybody exj 
pects, 'cause sometimes you get 
visual hallucinations and other 
times it's just like everythings nor
mal, but not quite. And you always 
find something prophetic. Like you'll 
have a super realization, and then 
youll wake up in the morning and 
youre like oh, I knew that."'  
Sam
Theres nothing that's not good 
when youre on 'shrooms.  
Patrick
Five bucks a hit [of acid]  
Carla
With acid you never know where 
youre going to want to be. You may 
go down to Monroeville to sit and 
philosophize for six hours.... Acid is 
very powerful and fragile.  Cliff.
CMU students share their personal insight on drug use, experimentation
[Ed. note: Writers name withheld.]
When I think back to all the things I have done in college, I think back 
to one weekend in the spring.
A good Mend of mine and I ate mushrooms around lunch time. When 
we started to trip, we decided to take a walk; it was raining and all the 
colors looked so vibrant against the dark sky. We were basically 
tumbling up the cobblestone streets laughing and marveling at how 
perfect the raindrops looked on everything. It was like looking through 
an ocean -1 wasnt hallucinating very muchjust everything in my 
vision seemed to bubble and shimmer. After about a four-hour walk we 
started to come down, both of us cold and wet. We drank hot tea and 
I changed our clothes. It felt so amazing. We couldnt stop talking about it.
After sobering up a bit, I went out drinking with a friend of mine. There were a bunch of parties that 
I night so we just sampled each one, drinking beers and smokingbowls as people passed them to us. Later 
i that night we ran into some friends of ours. They had been doing cocaine all night and asked if we 
wanted some. I had never had it before and had always-thought about it negatively, but at that moment, 
I wanted some. I snorted a small line through a $100 bill. I felt the rush immediatelyI couldnt stop 
smiling and I had a lot of energy. Everyone looked so beautiful and confident  all polished and 
sparkling. I could feel it running down my throat. It was numb. It was fun and all, but the coke scene 
: is very sketchyeveryone is fiendish and wiping their noses every two seconds. I dont know if I would 
try it again. Coming down felt terrible.
I finished off my weekend by trying heroin. I was watching movies and drinking wine with some 
friends at their apartment. They asked if I wanted to try heroin. I was sort of grossed out because I 
thought that meant they were going to shoot it. But they snorted it, so I thought why not. I had a small 
hit and felt it pretty immediately. I felt completely relaxed. I felt like I was sleeping with my eyes open. 
I felt great but really lethargic. I also looked terrible  heroin doesnt make you pretty like coke does 
:  everyone looks like zombies and their faces get splotchy. Coke had made me laugh and want to dance
 I was wired. Heroin made me feel completely dead. Coming down off this one sucked too. I itched 
a lot and was restless. It was hard to sleep  the whole thing felt like a dream.
My weekends arent this crazy anymore. I tried coke and heroin because I was curious. You have to 
be very cautious with these drugs. They are a lot of fun  probably too much fun.
[Ed. note: Writers name withheld.]
I honestly cant give you a concrete reason as to why I do drugs. 
Id love to say something hazy and romantic, about some unearthly 
sensation it gives me, taking me to another place, being another 
person, forgetting who I am or where I am. Or possibly this great 
story about being keenly aware of my body and my mind, while at 
the same time having one of those out-of-body something or others. 
Quite frankly, 50 percent of the time I feel like hanging myself or 
swallowing a bottle of whatevers in my bathroom cabinet. Its 
probably closer to the latter, since hanging myself is too glamorous 
an end to how I feel at that moment.
When I feel good, I feel amazingly good and when I feel bad, I feel 
horrid. Every emotion I have is amplified tenfold and then some. 
The schpeel, Im-so-sorry-please-forgive-me-I-was-so-drunk... will be printed across my grave. To 
some, I think, it doesnt even mean anything anymore. Sure, weed can bring out my pseudo
intellectual side; but whatever wit it might shed light upon is hidden by my emotional wreckness, 
which I lose complete control over.
Sometimes Im lucky and either outside forces (i.e. a really nice friend) or accidental good judgment 
on my part stops me before its too late and I manage to look like a normal person and actually have 
fun. If I attempt to be charming, its a blast for most everyone involved, if I do say so myself. When 
Im drunk, Im pretty open to just about anything you suggest for a good time. I can be magnanimous, 
flirtatious, cute, seductive, whatever the occasion calls for. For those one-on-one nights of conversa
tions about inspirational books Ive read, the future, sex, politics, your troubled past or screwy family, 
an old issue of the New Yorker featuring Ayn Rand, or why Sylvia Plath is my hero, cheesecake, 
rodents, you name it, I can bullshit about it for hours on end. I could even make it up if you want. Its 
fun to be high.
But for every person Ive bedazzled when drunk or high, there are 10 that think Im nuts. There are 
eight that have seen me sobbing on some poor assholes shoulder, there are five whose shoulders Ive 
cried on, there are three who think Im an utter psychopath and there are a select few important people 
who Ive hurt with evil words and who have returned the sentiment in their disappointed eyes. When
I drink, I undo all the trouble I take to mask my rocky mental state in about one hour.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 October 1995
v5YgyS uJviu MnnF jygJ
ByALEXLEWIN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
As Snapshots:24 Exposures director 
,;Brian Fredrickson pointed out in his 
Mopening address to the audience, what 
,we were about to see on stage had 
j never happened before and was never 
; going to happen again. In that sense, 
i according to Brian, it was true the,,ater. That immediately made my job 
. as a critic pretty darn difficult, be
cause I was going to have to review 
^somethingthat only a handful of people 
jthose who happened to attend the 2 
, pm showing on Saturday  would 
 4 ever see. 
c  There were
 four perfor
mances of Snap
-shots, Scotch n
1 ..Sodas first show 
' i of the year, and 
ijthey all had to 
.be different.
Snapshots is an 
i u improv show and 
 itthe tricky thing 
..about improv is 
; vthat its so diffi: ;jult to make it 
;'t,work. When it does work, its wondert siful. But the show I saw didnt work. It 
! had several wonderful moments and 
, < _ lines, such as Shana Elizabeth Reades,
. If we. take our clothes off, we wont 
, ;:have anywhere to hold our guns, in a 
t d scene entitled Skinny Dipping. Other,,'wise, it was pretty clear when the
n r actors ran into snags and couldnt come
 uUp with anything, or when they felt
the scene should end and were waiting 
,ifor Brians Smile! call that marked 
the closing of each scene. Too often, he 
give it, and they were forced to 
persevere in their floundering silli
ness.
One may argue that this is the na
ture of improv, and you just have to 
accept it. But with the obvious talent 
that stage, the snags could have
been avoided and they could have 
given us something hysterical. For 
whatever reason, the energy just 
wasnt there. Opening-show jitters, 
perhaps.
The actors and the audience had a 
unique bond in that neither party 
knew what was going to happen on 
stage. In fact, the only thing the ac
tors did know was their starting posi
tions for each scene. Even the scenes 
respective titles were a mystery to 
them until the moment they had to go 
on, when Ringmaster Brian informed 
the audience of each title. This premise 
alone made Snapshots worth seeing; 
the performance I saw was a little
flat. Any other might have been bril
liant. (I wouldve gone to see all four, 
but I had a deadline.)
The script, if one can caU it that, is 
by Scotch n Soda president Lawenda 
Jones and lists only the titles of each 
scene and the actors starting posi
tions. On the first page is the pro
nouncement, This script is not sup
posed to be rehearsedW One cannot 
help but admire the creative force of 
this decree, and thus the nature of 
Snapshots in general.
Is Snapshots true theater? Per
haps, depending on your definition of 
theater. I have never been able to 
come up with a good one, but Ive 
always known what I liked and what 
I havent liked... and Snapshots leaves 
me contemplating.
Yuzo Watanabe/Tartan photographer 
We got cops, we got hippies, we got confusion!
?viiup,gUr 5,un,5u YgnYegn 
\yg wnMinMMvet eMMvSnguegd
By WLADIMIR LABEIKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
To celebrate its 100th anniversary, 
The Carnegie will open all its venues to 
the public, free of charge, from Friday 
morning, October 6, to Saturday night, 
October 7. This includes the Museum of 
Natural History, the Science Center, 
the Museum of Art, andthe Andy Warhol 
Museum. The last two museums also 
will be showing films and videos con
tinuously and free of charge.
Carnegie Museum of Art experi
mental and comedy films:
Starting October 6, from 5 pm to 9 pm, 
early comedy shows will be screened. If 
you ever wanted to indulge in four hours 
of Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin, 
Harold Lloyd (and of course, the Key
stone Cops), this show is for you.
Old newsreels and experimental trick 
films also will be showing. Of course you 
can also drop in and out anytime you 
want to check out the rest of the mu
seum.
At 9 pm, the fun really begins because 
the folks at the film and video depart
ment have kindly decided to pull out the 
Obscure Film Bin in order to give us the 
following:
Megazone 23, a landmark a/iwze (thats 
Japanese animation for all you Disney 
fans) film about a civilization living in a 
giant spaceship that recreates the late 
20th century Tokyo (here, late meaning 
that the real one was destroyed hun
dreds of years ago). The token teenage 
hero in this one is Shogo, a biker who 
finds out about a planned coup and one 
very cool top secret motorcycle. A must 
see.
The Secret Adventures of Tom Thumb, 
a 1994 British film, puts the dark side on 
the homunculi fairy tale bandwagon.
Tom Thumb must face evil scientists, 
humans made of latex, and the most
bleak of English towns with the help of 
a Giant Killer and a few friends. A mod
em fairy tale for all ages.
Tetsuo, the Iron Man, Shinya 
Tsukamotos modern cult staple follows 
the daily troubles that plague Tetsuo 
after he gets attacked by metal mutants. 
A twisted parable on the man vs. ma
chine theme, this movie features the 
God of the Mechanical World in a special 
appearance. Promising both laughs and 
upset stomachs, this film should not be 
missed.
Spiderbaby, Jack Hills visionary hor
ror film from 1968, gets one of its rare 
showings at this centennial. Touted as 
television sitcom directed by Luis 
Buuel, it is bound to be a real treat. 
Besides, any movie that inspires a White 
Zombie song must be seen.
The Merry children are all afflicted 
with a disease that only runs in their 
family and that mentally regresses them 
to infants. Its up to the faithful Bruno 
(Lon Chaney) to protect them from their 
evil, greedy, distant cousins. Areal must 
see.
A few other films (their identities not 
known at press time) will be shown that 
night.
Theyre supposed to be surprises, and 
the audience gets the chance to vote on 
them.
After this All Night Insanity, the 
early comedy program will be shown 
again from 8 am on Saturday till 8 pm. 
Drop in again if you missed Harold Lloyd 
reckon with that big clock in Manhat
tan.
The Andy Warhol Museum 
celebration:
Though it is not anywhere near 100 
years old yet, the Warhol museum de
cided to also jump full force into the 
jamboree this coming weekend. It will 
be showing Andy Warhols TV, the short
lived television show featuring inter
views with fashion designers, actors, 
and a plethora of hip people. Interviewees 
include John Waters, Philip Glass, The 
Peking Opera, Carolina Herrera, !Rob 
Lowe, and the Andy man himself.
The episodes will be shown from 5 to 
10:30 pm on Friday and from 1 am to 9 
am on Saturday.
In between, there will be a drag party/ 
contest called Miss Fifteen Miniites, 
so go strut your stuff because this is your 
chance to become a drag goddess for a 
bit. Besides, its free.
Other centennials:
You know who else just turned 100? 
The movies, man, the movies. While 
most people celebrated this over the 
summer, here in Pittsburgh were so hip 
were doing it now.
Since September 9, the guys at the 
Museum of Art have been showing the 
first movies ever made, with live music 
and plenty of good fun. However, dont 
think youve missed out because they 
havent even gotten to the really good 
stuff yet.
Check it out every Friday through 
November for early gems by DeMille, 
Griffith, Chaplin and more, including 
Broken Blossoms and The Cabinet of Dr. 
Caligari.
For schedule and other information 
call the Carnegie at 237-8300. TheAhdy 
Warhol Museum is located at 117 
Sandusky St., North Side. The Carnegie 
Science Center is right besides the Thiree 
Rivers Stadium.
The Carnegie Museums are right down 
Forbes (theyre so close, we like to pretend 
theyre part of the campus). Get out this 
weekend and enjoy the festivities. After 
all, centennials dont come around too 
often. By definition, they are only qnce 
every hundred years, so the next one 
wont be for a good time yet... probably at 
least a century.
Oakland/Shadyside 
443 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
Now hiring. 
Experienced pizza makers needed.682-7272
PAPA
T'
Ir--------------r--------------1
I 10"0ne Topping I One 14" Large 
& 2 Cokes 1 One Topping & An I 
I Order of Breadsticks I$mm 99 I A Hf 99 I5-I 57^
I One 16" Extra 
j Large One Topping j
I 
!
Two 14" Large 
One Topping
$7 *11 *5 *7
|iAddi,iool,ppigs$,.00eoch I ai 5 I
>1 attrasse  I I vlid"ly,prtidp,io8s,r I
Not valid with any other coupon
I___________________1.
I Valid only at participating stores |
CBusiness
Resume Collection
Drop off 40 
resumes at the 
table in front of 
DohertyHall 
October 9-13.
Don't forget to 
put them in 
a manilla 
envelope witlr 
your name and 
year.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 October 1995
bnj uryju rneF iyjegF :55du
On the Tube
by Dan Rosenberg
A15-year-old girl lies dead in her Los 
Angeles apartment, naked and tied to 
a bedpost. Drugs are all over the room.
So begins Murder One (ABC, Thurs
days 10-11 pm), Steven Bochcos new 
series that will follow the trial of the 
accused killer throughout the entire 
season.
The initial investigation focuses on 
Richard Cross (Stanley Tucci), a 
wealthy entrepreneur who is having 
an affair with the victims sister. Al
though the allegations of his involve
ment in the crime at first seem unsub
stantiated, it gradually becomes clear 
that Cross is hiding something. By the 
end of the pilot, he is arrested for the 
crime.
Enter Ted Hoffman (NYPD Blue's 
Daniel Benzali), a brilliant criminal 
attorney who comes to Cross aid. By 
the end of the episode, the charges 
against Cross have been dropped and a 
drug-abusing young actor is arrested 
for the crime instead.
Like all series, Murder One needs to 
maintain audience interest through
out the entire season, which, judging 
by the first two episodes, should not be
a problem. Bochco, a Carnegie Mellon 
alumnus, knows how to make great tele
vision.
He created Hill Street Blues, L.A. Law, 
andNYPD Blue, and has employed indi
viduals associated with one or more of 
those series for his new venture, includ
ing Benzali, Barbara Bosson (who plays 
the DA), writer David Milch, Charles 
Haid (who directed the pilot), and com
poser Mike Post. The writing is bril
liant.
The acting is superb. Benzali is al
ready a front-runner for an Emmy next 
year, while Bosson, Tucci, Jason Gedrick 
CSweet Justice), Mary McCormack, and 
Patricia Clarkson lend able support. 
Even the title sequences are fascinat
ing.
This is not only the years best new 
series; it is currently the best show on 
television.
Although it is not of the same caliber 
as Murder One, New York News (CBS, 
Thursdays, 9-10 pm) is a respectable 
show in its own right. It possesses a 
talented cast, including Gregory 
Harrison, Madeline Kahn, Joe Morton, 
Melina Kanakaredes (NYPD Blue), and 
Mary Tyler Moore, but does not yet pos
sess the high-quality writing that makes 
a series great.
The program follows the employees of 
the New York Reporter, a daily tabloid, 
as they race against the clock to meet 
their deadlines. Working for the paper 
are journalist Jack Reilly (Harrison), 
who, in the pilot, uncovers an insurance 
scam within the fire department while 
investigating the death of a heroic 
firefighter; reporter Angela Villanova 
(Kanakaredes), who risks losing her story
about prostitutes to assist a child who 
falls on the ice; and Ellie Melanski 
(Kelli Williams), the eager intern 
whose expose on bad cab drivers turns 
into a desperate attempt to save a 
man from suicide.
Of course, not all the shows charac
ters are this respectable (and bland). 
Moore is terrific playing against type 
as the papers ruthless publisher, 
while Kahn is a delight (she should 
expect an Emmy next year, too) as the 
aggressive gossip columnist who barks 
at her co-workers, If anyone is ex
pendable ... its all of you!
While both of these shows have a lot 
in their favor, they also have major 
obstacles to overcome. News is sched
uled against Seinfeld, last seasons 
most-watched series, while Murder is 
taking on no. 2 ER. Lets hope, audi
ences will find these shows or their 
networks will move them to safer time 
slots.
Murder One: A. New York News: B.
Dan Rosenberg is new to Carnegie 
Mellon; however, beware of testing his 
thumb wrestling skills. With all the 
exercise he gets, operating the remote, 
he is a formidable opponent to the 
likes fo thumb wrestling champions 
such as Tom "Big Thumb Stump and 
Billy the Snapper Toon. You have 
now been warned so if injury should 
occur during a challenge thatyou were 
foolish enough to make, you have only 
yourself to blame. Really, what do you 
expect when you take on the fastest 
thumb on campus? Youre bound to 
get hurt.
Pippin gni,gMu iy / 
os'L Svwiygvy,utd
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
In 1968, CMU Drama student Steven 
Schwartz wrote a play, Pippin, for Scotch 
n Soda. A couple years later, it went on 
to be a Broadway smash, playing over 
1,900 performances. Finally, 27 years 
later, Carnegie Mellon is performing 
Pippin for the first time in the Kresge 
Theater.
The play follows Emperor Char
lemagnes son Pippin, on his search for 
the secret of joy. Its about the process 
you go through as you get older: accept
ing compromises, dealing with them and 
re-evaluating whats important, said 
Joe Deer, an MFA candidate who di
rected the production. During Pippins 
search for fulfillment, hell experience 
love, power, war, and compassion.
The acting and energy from the cast 
was infused into the audience, and there 
was more than' one point where I could 
relate to what was happening on the 
stage. Peter Humer was full of energy 
and charisma, and truly stood out as 
Pippin. Humers Pippin was a character 
with which everyone can relate to  
always searching for fulfillment and re
fusing to be deterred. David Ford, who 
plays the leading player, gave a passion
ate performance which will be impos
sible to ever forget. Evil, and tempting 
our inner desires, the leading player 
acts as a devil, trying to tempt Pippin 
with that which he can never achieve  
complete fulfillment. Wendy Jones, who 
plays Fastrada, Pippins stepmother, 
puts on an exuberantly large perfor
mance. I couldnt help laughing at' her 
delusion that she is just an ordinary 
housewife as she schemes and plots the 
downfall of her husband. The entire en
semble should be congratulated for the 
spectacular performance they put on.1'
But the actors arent the only one's 
who should get kudos. The entire pro
duction staff did an incredible job. Light
ing was very good overall, but therje 
were a few minor problems with-thje 
spotlight following the singers. The most 
spectacular feature was the use of spe
cial effects. Technical Director Jason 
Pickett told me that the most techni
cally difficult part of the show wasthe 
finale, which used floor elevators, self
expanding props, and even smoke and 
simulated fire. Although the production 
ran into a few problems earlier in'the 
week, they did a great job getting every
thing in order.  ';
Kresge Theater needs to be remod
eled. The ambiance is very nice, I dont 
have a problem with the way it looks I 
have a problem with the way it sounds. 
When the orchestra is closer to the audi
ence, as it is in Pippin, it is hard to hear 
the cast. I found myself on more than 
one occasion leaning forward in hopes of 
comprehending what the actors were 
saying  and its not the actors at all. 
Its the lack of microphones and 'the 
lousy acoustics of the theater. But this 
was only a small problem, and shouldnt 
keep anyone away from seeing this play.
Pippin is only playing until this Satur
day, October 7. Im planning on going 
again. I suggest you go at least once, if 
you can. i I 
Dnp,i etp,5 uryju rvUr ryYnu
By NEIL DONNELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
Imagine Courtney Love dressed 
in a ten-gallon cowboy hat and a 
kilt, and youll have an adequate 
conception of the music of the 
Geraldine Fibbers.
Try^ The Geraldine Fibbers
Trei^ Lost Somewhere Be
tween the Earth and My 
Home
OepntV Virgin Records
Lost Somewhere Between The 
Earth And My Home is certainly 
an appropriate title for this de
but; it doesnt fit snugly into any 
musical category. It is equal parts 
punk, country, and folk, and 
strong Celtic influences can be 
detected at times. The Fibbers 
are perhaps not the most techni
cally-skilled band, but what they 
lack in precision, they make up in 
ferocity. The mood swings and 
escalating tension inherent in 
most of their songs make this 
album one long and vitriolic, al
beit enjoyable, trip.
The album begins with a 
mournful violin, guitar, and 
double-bass trio courtesy of Jessy 
Green, Daniel Keenan, and Will
iam Tutton, but this muted sad
ness quickly gives way to a musi
cal firestorm when the rest of the 
band comes in. Lilybelle is an 
appropriate opener, setting the 
bipolar stage for the rest of this 
record.
The Small Song is rollicking 
and discordant and is carried by 
the brutal lyrics and vocals of 
Carla Bozulich (I got an angry 
eye on your white throat/1 won
der why youre in my boat/1 gave 
you milk I gave you bread/ Now 
please get out of my flying head/ 
I tried to talk to you/ But now its 
too late.)
Marmalade is one of the 
albums more mellow cuts, mak
ing effective use of strings and 
Bozulichs country-tinged voice. 
A slight Stonesy blues pervades 
Dragon Lady in spite of its 
apocalyptic imagery: Purchase 
an aircraft, learn to fly, run out of 
gas while were in the sky/ Auto
matic pilot and x-ray spex, we 
were kissing in the cockpit when 
the airplane wrecked.
A Song About Walls tells of 
the desperate situation of a 
woman attemptingto care for her 
junkie boyfriend while trying to 
deal with her own addiction as 
well. Loud guitars and a tinge of 
harmonica give House Is Fall
ing a more traditional blues-rock 
sound, but the occasional burst of 
noisy feedback keeps this tune 
from becomingtrite. The Fibbers 
deeper roots show through on 
Outside OfTown, which sounds 
like a traditional Irish folk song. 
Kevin Fitzgeralds tambourineinflected percussion highlights 
this cut, carrying the song in a 
waltz-like timing.
The French Song plods along 
with an almost suicidal tinge (I 
cannot fly, and my eyes are open 
wide/ Im goin down yeah one 
more time, over the edge with a 
stupid grin.)
Bozulichs weird, oscillating, 
high-to-low voice near the finish, 
combined with chaotic violin and 
guitar work, make this song quite 
a departure from what is typi
cally considered good musical 
technique. The Fibbers, however, 
make it all work quite well.
The closest the band gets to 
pure punk is Dusted, a raging 
slice of anger from Bozulich!s 
overheating heart and soul. Ri
chard displays Bozulichs im
pressive knack for narrative, re
lating the tale of the devil and a 
woman that he takes control of. 
This one also includes plenty of
bizarre imagery (It seems the 
pretty girl was laughing as her 
world was filled with doubt/ She 
laughed as her own head was 
chopped off and the fish came 
spilling out.)
Tuttons double bass begins and 
ends Blast Off Baby, a rather 
puzzling number chronicling 
someone headed for self-destruction. A banjo leads in the tradi
tional Get Thee Gone, but it is 
soon engulfed by noise. It reveals 
itself soon enough though, to ac
company this scornful story of 
love gone sour, closing the album 
on an appropriately melancholy 
note.
The Geraldine Fibbers have 
proved themselves capable of 
greatness on Lost Somewhere 
Between TheEarthAnd My Home. 
They have great potential to be
come quite a meaningful band, 
and their eclectic debut proves 
this.
Bozulichs impressive and mys
tical storytelling, along with the 
rest of the bands Celtic-folk ten
dencies, make this a unique al
bum. In fact, it is in all likelihood 
only a precursor to the epics that 
the Fibbers may be crafting in 
the future.
Unstrung Heroes wreg5u
By DAVID KORAN
Tartan Staffwriter
What can I say but, I liked 
this movie. Its not a feel good 
nor a lesson of morals. Not a 
comedy nor a drama.
Trei^ Unstrung Heroes
Dvgnwiyg^ Diane Keaton
oy5YeMd^ Buena Vista
The movie is a snapshot of 
life taken through the eyes and 
ears of a young Steven Franz 
Lindz (Nathan Watt). His fa
ther Sidney (John Turturro) is 
a passionate inventor of all 
things great and small who 
becomes frantic as his wife, 
Selma (Andie MacDowell) 
struggles with cancer. Thrown 
into the mayhem are Sids ec
centric brothers, Arthur 
(Maury Chaykin) and Danny 
(Michael Richards), who are 
functionally removed from all
family interactions by way of their 
personalities.
While the family struggles to 
cope, Steven decides to move in 
with his uncles for a while, which, 
in a way, helps him find himself 
and his purpose. Unfortunately, 
having Michael Richards (Kra
mer from Seinfeld) and Maury 
Chaykin (Major Fambrough from 
Dances with Wolves) as uncles 
can lead to adoption of very 
strange habits and beliefs. This, I 
would have to assert, leads the 
movie into its most charming epi
sodes.
Even with the family split in its 
many ways, disorganized to sev
eral points of abstraction, it some
how allows each character to, 
mature and evolve into an indi
vidual person.
It would be hard to lay down an 
exact account of the movie and 
storyline since I find it so hard to 
categorize what this one in par
ticular falls into. Its charming
and heartfelt, amusing and be! 
wildering; an altogether in! 
teresting movie to see. I would ! 
expect many a split decision., 
from people exiting this movie, ! 
but I doubt you could say you ! 
hate it.
The musical score, provided ! 
by Thomas Newman, is very ! 
appropriate for an abstract! 
movie of this type. It sounds ! 
very much like his work with ! 
Robert Altmans The Player \ 
and nothing like his more re! 
cent work, Little Women. !
This film marks Diane! 
Keatons second attempt at dii 
recting a full-length feature ! 
film (the first was a documen! 
tary). Previously, she directed ! 
several television projects and ! 
movies. Because of the obscure ! 
nature of the movie, it might! 
not be seen at the Oscars, but it! 
definitely acts as a watermark . 
for future projects from all in-: I 
volved.
Child, family and adult 
counselling available, 
fee based on income.
Call U.Pitt Clinical Psychology Center 
624-8822
GET OUT 
OF HERE! m -
We Have The Lowest Student Fares!
LONDON$239CARACAS229
PARIS285SAN JOSE225
MADRID329TOKYO453
ATHENS379SYDNEY678
Fares are STUDENT fares, from Pittsburgh, each way 
based on a round trip purchase. International Stu
dent. ID may be required. Taxes & surcharges are 
NOT included.
( ill mu i Utlil: y<< nisi Tillin'1 U.K. i/i.v/Z
CouncilTravel
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchange
Internet: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
118 Meyran Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15213______________
683-1881
D
on't compromise your career. Achieve a fast start instead with S3 
Incorporated,Together; we'll develop the next-generation of innovative multimedia acceleration 
products for the desktop, home and mobile PC users. Solutions without compromise. 
We're a small (400 person), growing and successful company (our stock price has gone 
up 114% in the past six months).The S3 work environment is highly-participative and 
dynamic. Our thinkingconsistently ahead of the market.
Advance our mission to provide a complete range of exhilarating acceleration solutions in 
silicon and software.You'll work in the vanguard on MPEG, 3D graphics, full-motion/ 
full-screen video, CD-ROM, graphics applications, multimedia, audio, true-color imaging 
real-time communications, user-interface, and voice and text recognition for the PC.
Information Session: 
Thursday, October 5th 
Student Center, Room 205 
7:00pm - 9:00pm
r.VPi 
Ili - '
On-campus Interviews:
Friday, October 6th
See your career placement
center to schedule an interview.
Start accelerating your career now by getting on board with S3.
If you're unable to meet with us on campus, you may send your resume via mail, 
fax or e-mail to: S3 Incorporated, Attn: College Relations, 2770 San Tomas Expwy., 
Santa Clara. CA 95051 -0968. Fax: (408) 748-9413; e-mail: rnakasho@s3.com
S3 is an equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

L12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 October 1995
TnnJnMF wyMwngiu UvSn gywJ \eMu ijy MvUriu y\ \,M
By LORNE COLON
Tartan Junior Staff writer
This past weekend, two of the best 
bands in live music indirectly fought to 
se6- who would get the most respect.
a free show to CMU students ($6 to 
others) in the Orientation Tent. For the 
fan, or even the casual listener, this 
weekend will deservedly be remembered.
Fugazi took the s^age at Metropol as 
casually as they always do (after the
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
On Saturday night, Shellac roared so loudly In the tent that the people watching 
Pocahantes In DH 2210 thought Disney had finally gotten gutsy with their soundtracks.
Everyone lucky enough to see both shows 
must have walked away with a different 
opinion, and they were probably all right. 
Friday night was Fugazi, playing a show 
at Metropol in the Strip District. Satur
day night belonged to Shellac, who played
crowd had been warmed up by fellow 
Dischord Record artists Branch ManHaving seen the band before, I knew 
they would play a decent show, and they 
did. Fugazi tore through a straight set
with several songs off their 
most recent release Red 
Medicine, in addition to play
ing a sprinkling of songs from 
their past catalog including 
perfect versions of Repeater 
and Waiting Room. For a 
ticket price of .under $5  
the band always plays all 
age venues and keeps their 
ticket prices low  each fan 
would have gotten more than 
they paid for, had it not been 
for the crowd.
The one downer for the 
Fugazi show, both for myself 
and the band, was the bloodhungry dancers in the au
dience. At the Shellac show 
on Saturday, seeing that 
Fugazi came to pay their re
spects and see a show com
parable to theirs, I asked 
them how they felt about it.
Their answer was clear and concise: 
They cannot stop the minds of scattered 
people who want to behave in a way that 
disturbs others. Fugazi acknowledged 
that the crowd mostly consisted of de
cent fans, but the 50-or-so people who 
wanted to ruin everyones night suc
ceeded to a certain extent. Asked if they 
would prefer to play smaller venues,
Yuzo Watanabe/Tartan Photographer 
Ian MacKaye, Fugazi guitarist/singer contemplates 
the meaning of life during the Shellac show.
guitarist Ian Mackaye said it would be 
impossible because the number of people 
wanting to see the shows is too large. 
Still, amid the discussion of crowds gone 
wrong, Hurl, Uzeda, and Disall worked 
through their respective sets. It was 
finally time for Shellac to show CMU 
what they were all about.
I couldnt help finding it strange to see 
Steve Albini and his two cohorts take
the stage in the Orientation Tent on 
campus. Albinis former band Big Black 
was known for its rough shows and 
crowds. I wasnt sure what to expect 
when Shellac came on-stage. Unsurpris
ingly, however, the good I expected was 
surpassed tenfold as the band screeched 
and careened through an amazing set. 
Albinis trademark screamingguitar and 
choked vocals were in full effect as the 
band kept a constant and down-to-earth 
rapport with the audience.
At one point Shellac opened the floor 
for questions, and Albini exchanged 
quips throughout the set about the for
mality of playing at CMU among other 
things.
The bands set came to a halt (their 
songs brilliantly stop and start at ran
dom) as Albini and Shellacs bassist 
dragged their drummer offstage.
Last weekend was one to pay respect 
to in quick retrospect. Fugazi amazed 
their audience at Metropol. They Were 
then amazed by Albini and company 
when Shellac took the CMU campus 
with immeasurable force. It was rumored 
that Fugazi and Shellac had wanted to 
play the same night and the same venue. 
Would that have been too much for one 
night? We may never need to know be
cause it was almost too good to be true 
when spread out over two.
D,y \tyYu ei I s,uvw Pywvnid
By ADAM KLIVANS
Tartan Staffwriter
Every year the Y Music Society 
sponsors a season of solo recitals 
in the Carnegie Music Hall on 
Forbes Avenue. LastWednesday, 
world-renowned violinist Pinchas 
Zuckerman took the stage to per
form sonatas by Schubert and 
Beethoven. Sought after for his 
skills as both violinist and con
ductor, Zuckerman has firmly 
established his musical excellence 
on an international scale. His 
many recordings, especially those 
made with the St. Paul Chamber 
Orchestra, showcase the beauty 
of his playing and the depth of his 
musicianship. Although Zuck
erman certainly had the poten
tial to impress the audience of 
the Carnegie Music Hall, his en
semble lacked the resources nec
essary to fulfill such expectations.
Usually, as in the case of the Y 
Music Society, advertisements for 
a recital mention the recitalist 
and not his accompanist. The ac
companist, however, can often act 
as the deciding factor when evalu
ating a performance, and, in this 
recital, the playing of pianist Marc 
Neikrug detracted from the qual
ity of the music.
Zuckerman began with Schu
berts Rondo in B Minor (D. 895), 
one of the most virtuoso pieces 
written for violin and piano. Per
haps a less virtuoso piece would 
have allowed Neikrug and 
Zuckerman to adapt to their sur
roundings, for both musicians 
stumbled through the first few 
bars. Although their playing sig
nificantly improved after a few 
minutes, Zuckerman and Neik
rug never sounded as coherent as 
one would have hoped. In certain 
passages, Neikrug failed to keep 
up with Zuckermans often re
lentless tempo, and I began to 
wonder if Zuckerman had simply 
forgotten about his pianist. The 
essence of Schuberts delightful 
Rondo still came through clearly, 
but I had hoped for a more inter
esting performance.
The next piece, the Sonata in A 
Major (D. 574 Duo), was another 
example of the underestimated 
genius of Franz Schubert. (Did 
Schubert ever write a bad piece of 
music?)
An interesting and lyrical work, 
this sonata can resist all but the 
most pedantic of playing before 
losing its charm. Zuckerman was 
up to the task.
Despite the occasional miscommunication between violinist and 
pianist, Zuckerman and Neikrug 
effectively brought out the won
derful melodic elements of the 
piece.
Zuckerman had no problem 
complementing the diverse har
monies from the keyboard with 
his poised violin playing. Clearly 
the highlight of the concert, the 
duo demonstrated a gifted ability 
to animate this sonatas inherent 
beauty.
Unfortunately, Zuckerman de
cided not to continue with more 
music by Schubert but instead 
turned to two chamber works of 
Beethoven. Although Beethoven 
is undoubtedly a Titan of classi
cal music, his chamber music, in
comparison to the chamber mu
sic of Schubert, is simply less 
inspired. Though Zuckerman 
could get away with a few mis
takes and still quite competently 
perform the works by Schubert, a 
higher level of playing was neces
sary to succeed with Beethoven. 
Neikrug failed to achieve this 
level.
The duo began with the Sonata 
No. 4 in A minor (Op. 23), a 
dramatic piece in true Beethoven 
style. The only drama in this per
formance, however, occurred 
while watching Neikrug plod 
through bar after bar. His heavyhanded approach made Zuck
ermans playing seem frivolous, 
and the two continually failed to 
bring anything but boredom to 
the listener.
The next piece, the Sonata No. 
7 in C Minor (Op. 30 No. 2) started 
off on a better note. One of the 
most famous works in the violin 
sonata repertoire, this piece 
works very well on the concert 
stage.
Zuckerman and Neikrug took 
advantage of this and started to 
build a formidable amount of ten
sion within the first few minutes 
of the allegro con brio. Unfortu
nately, Neikrugs piano playing 
faltered, and the duo proceeded 
to collapse into a void of medioc
rity.
With such a world-renowned 
musician as Pinchas Zuckerman, 
I had expected a first rate perfor
mance. It is, however, the en
semble, not the individual, that 
must attempt to provide a worth
while musical experience.
A PIECE OF PAPERIIS JUST SO format
WE'D LIKE TO MEET YOU IN PERSON.
Banyan Systems is developing enterprise network software products that break through departmental and 
geographic boundaries, integrating diverse computing resources into unified, global networks. Our performance in 
messaging, directory, enterprise network services and other emerging areas is compelling and ahead of the curve. Come 
find out about our entrepreneurial environment first hand  Put your awesome ideas into action and see the immediate 
impact of your contributions every day...at Banyan.
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATE SOFTWARE ENGINEERS
|bNHsAa|Nb P:PP|NbNb)oAs?'P |ba:HG|:TP
Student Center Monday Oct. 30
Sunday, Oct. 29,7-9 pm Sign-up
DNP: negMu R,gUr \e5n
CCCCCdou lt ig
 gyros  falafil  salads 
baklava  spinach pies  and morePita Bred
Party Trays, Catering, and Office Lunches are our Specialty! Call for Details. 
'Voted among Pittsburghs best take-out places.Pittsburgh Post Gazette Sunday, August 22,1993
By APRIL C. MOATE
Tartan Staffwriter
. What does D.O.S.E. stand 
for? Their bass player, Jef 
.Garfinkel, says that it used to 
mean denial of sickness ev
erywhere or dogs on some
thing euphoric. Now he says 
it can mean whatever you want 
it to mean.
Try^ D.O.S.E.
 Trei^ Sex With Sara
Maybe it means this banD 
sOundS likE that band called 
Live. According to many fans 
and critics, D.O.S.E. has been 
the hottest local band since 
ginning the 1995 Graffiti Rock 
.Challenge. Considering that 
]they had been together less 
than a year before winning, 
this was quite a surprise to 
them, and was the big step 
that got them rolling on the 
fast track to local fame.
I Last Friday, September 22, 
Was the CD release party at 
Graffiti for their debut, Sex 
With Sara. You may have seen 
the yellow posters tacked up 
bn just about every phone pole 
and street light in the Burgh.
 I had a special pass to go to 
the V.I.P. party beforehand 
where I got to meet the man
ager, whose name I really dont 
remember.
! The guys from the b and were 
there but I didnt get a chance 
to speak to them. The party 
Wasnt all that exciting, but 
hey, free food and beer.
! The band is made up of Jafcon Trunzo, lead vox and acous
tic guitar; Josh Thompson, elec
tric and acoustic guitars; Jef 
Garfinkel, bass and backup 
yox; and Tony Valentinetti, 
Urums. With these same mem
bers, the band played their first 
gig on September 29, 1994. I 
feaw them for the first time this 
summer.
! I had heard a lot about them 
but I wanted to find out for
You'll create, modify, maintain and test software 
components, as well as design/ 
implement enhancements using the 
latest PC/Workstation technology.
You should have strong C program
ming skills, an understanding of 
standard operating and networking 
distributed systems, and knowledge 
of software engineering practices.
While exposure to these technology
myself what they were all about. 
That first time didnt tell me much 
because it was just too damn loud 
to really hear them.
The second time I saw them 
wasnt much different, for the 
same reason. I remember think
ing I would really like to hear 
what they would sound like on a 
professional recording.
A lot of people were already 
comparing them to Live, and they 
have even been known to per
form Lightning Crashes at some 
of their shows. Interestingly, they 
performed on a side stage at the 
recent Live concert at Star Lake 
ampitheater.
The show at Graffiti last week
a little out of my element. 
Still, I know what I like, and I 
like Sex With Sara. I also like 
Live a lot, so that explains 
part of it.
Although I wouldnt call 
them a copycat band, Live is 
obviously one of the bands that 
inspired them on this album. 
They have also been compared 
to Stone Temple Pilots and 
Pearl Jam. (Are you seeing a 
connection here?)
One of my friends told me 
that he thought D.O.S.E. 
sounded very much like an 
MTV band, and this is one of 
the reasons that he doesnt 
like them. I must admit,
areas is important, intelligence, the drive to succeed 
and a demonstrated track record of 
academic achievement are equally important.
Banyan offers a highly competitive compensa
tion package. If youre unable to see us 
on campus, please send your resume to: 
Banyan Systems, Human Resources, Dept. SS, 
14 Walkup Drive, Westboro, MA 01581 An equal 
opportunity employer.
courtesy Live Wire Entertainment 
D.O.S.E. is a band strongly influenced by modern popular acts like 
Live, Pearl Jam, and Sonic Youth.
was better than the last two times 
I saw them because the volume 
was at a bearable level, relatively 
speaking. D.O.S.E. is not a quiet 
band, but I was actually able to 
listen to them instead of sitting 
there worrying that I was going 
to wake up deaf the next morn
ing.
The place was packed, and there 
was some moshing going on down 
on the dance floor (I was safely 
nestled on the second-floor bal
cony). I kept hearing people yell, 
Who the hell is Sara? but Trunzo 
never answered.
They gave me a copy of the CD, 
so I finally got to really listen to 
them. By now you must be won
dering what I thought of it, but 
please bear with me. Im used to 
writing movie reviews and I feel
though, I have been warped 
by MTV, and this is all of the 
stuff that I like.
There are 10 songs on the 
album and while the lyrics 
arent ground-breaking, 
Trunzos voice, backed up by 
predictable rhythms, makes 
for a nice mix.
Sex With Sara isnt some
thing that has never been done 
before. However, there is a 
huge market today for this 
type of music and the CD 
seems to have a lot of selling 
potential.
Future albums from the 
band should show more expe
rience and depth, but for now, 
D.O.S.E. is on the rise and 
doesnt appear to have any 
plans to come down soon.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 October 1995L13
the brains behind the brains
behind the future
Bellcore
() Bell Communications Research
DH CCc2
movies you may have seen before..
Nwiypng c6 
oegMnUvn sntyM 'MvSnguvid
You might also enjoy visting 
our career site on the Web - 
http://www.careermosaic.com/ 
cm/bellcore where you can find 
out more about us - and fill out an 
on line applicatioa We are an equal 
opportunity employer.
By JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, October 5
Mephisto
Did you ever notice that all the really artsy 
movies have names like Looloolaloo or King of Big 
Monkey Island? Youre not going to see any movies 
like Ace Ventura: Pet Detective coming out on the 
art circuit. All the weird names go to the artsy 
movies.
Mephisto is a Hungarian piece written by the son 
of Thomas Im Not The Guy That Started Wendys 
Mann. Its about an actor who sells himself when 
the Nazis arrive in Hungary and rises in power. 
Pretty neat, huh?
The name, in Greek or something, means the 
devil, I think. Or it might be like mestizo, which is 
a half-caste, I think, because I read it in the 
dictionary. Like a fine German occupation of Hun
gary, this movie keeps on giving.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am
Friday, October 6
Don Juan Demarco
Johnny Depp is back, and hes better than ever in 
this love/thriller/chillomedy.
Depp is a street-smart insane guy who thinks 
hes the famous meat delivery man, Don Juan (if 
you catch my drift). See, what it is, is that all these 
people are trying to get Depp not to think hes a 
great lover of many women, but it just doesnt 
work. Someone finds true love in this movie, Im 
sure, which isnt half bad if you think about it. Its 
better than finding the dead body of a grizzled old 
prospector.
With a song in the soundtrack by Bryan Flock 
of Seagulls Adams, this movie cant be half bad. 
And there is a lot of little, thin mask wearing in this 
movie, so see it. Like a fine lover or a good Ford, this 
movie keeps on giving.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, October 7
Under Siege 2
Under Siege 2: Up Your Nose With a Rubber Hose 
stars Jean Claude Van Damme or Bruce Willis or 
something. Its all about some train that goes 
flying through some place and Van Damme or 
Willis has to stop it and kiss Sandra Bullock in the 
process, wherever her process is. I dont know. It 
sounds interesting, but its going to be a bunch of 
splosions and bombs and stuff and Im sure youll 
see Van Dammes butt, for better or worse. You 
decide on this one. Im staying out of this.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
|ttnUet Fg,Uu ungSn eu gnwgneivyM
RECREATION, from page L9
week. Shell smoke mostly after 
class or in the evening, after din
ner, but has smoked pot during 
a class break.
Roman, on the other hand, be
lieves that drug use, even mari
juana, is more of a weekend thing. 
You find out one of your friends 
has got a bunch, you make plans
 you save it for the weekend 
like some people save sex for the 
weekend, he said.
Small group of friends
Carla, a junior, was one of the 
many who agreed that sm all gath
erings, rather than parties, is 
where most drug use takes place. 
Parties are usually associated 
with being drunk, she said. You 
kind of want to be with people on 
the same wavelength.
Cliff also usually does drugs 
with very small groups. The first 
time he tried ecstasy was with 
one other person, and we laid on 
a mattress and a shag carpet, 
and went ooh.
Cliff has only done it a couple of 
times and it has been the cause of 
his only contact with heroin and 
cocaine. Ecstasy is MDMA, a 
chemical that affects the nervous 
system, but Cliff said that it gen
erally ends up being a speedball 
of cocaine and heroin with a bit of 
MDMA thrown in.
The high, he said, was great... 
I could have been hit by a truck 
and it would have felt wonder
ful. Coming down is a different 
story. It generally sucks, he said. 
Youre irritable and bored... and 
have a headache. A couple of days 
later youre subject to fits of sob
bing and psychotic laughter. 
Bob and Sam have tried ec
stasy as well. Ive gotten it off 
campus at parties and raves, 
Bob said. Sam, who has only tried 
ecstasy once, said, I was more at 
peace, more relaxed than Ive ever 
been in my life.... I had gotten it 
at a rave.
Its pretty easy to find 
With sources claiming that
their drugs are coming from off 
campus, there is an interesting 
question as to where most CMU 
students are getting theirs from. 
Patrick, a senior, is looking for 
heroin for November 7, for when 
the new Alice in Chains [album] 
comes out. He has never done 
heroin before, and said, Ive 
heard heroin isnt something to 
fuck around with, so Ill have to 
do some research on that.
Most students agreed that 
marijuana, LSD, and mushrooms 
are the easier drugs to get around 
CMU, so Patrick may have some 
trouble finding heroin if he de
cides to try it.
Mushrooms; however, are not 
quite so accessible as some would 
like. Stan was disappointed be
cause hes been trying to get some 
for a while.
He was planning to shroom 
for the first time just three nights 
ago, but the deal fell through. 
He is anxious to try mushrooms, 
but if its anything like acid, no 
thanks. Thats a line I dont want 
to cross, he said.
Patrick, who was a big-time 
dealer once last year with the 
shroomy toons said, Ive done 
too many shrooms in the past 
and reality becomes a serious 
mess. The first time he 
shroomed was at a small gath
ering at CMU.
Before class ...
Cliff was getting high often even 
before coming to CMU, but his 
habit increased drastically once 
he got here. When out at night 
looking for something to do, hed 
be hopping from dorm room to 
dorm room smoking pot with dif
ferent people. Cliff said he didnt 
like CMU when he got here and 
was looking to escape from get
ting depressed.
While Patrick claimed to know 
of some professors who use drugs, 
Pepe, sophomore, was the only 
student to say that he had actu
ally gotten high with a CMU pro
fessor. The scene was a party 
that the professor happened to be
at, marijuana was available, and 
the two smoked up. Though he 
was previously considering try
ing opium this weekend, Pepe 
has changed his mind. Ive got
ten three invitations this week
end to go smoke, he said in re
sponse to just how much mari
juana there is on campus, if 
youre looking for it, its pretty 
easy to find.
Still, theres no drug table out 
in front of Doherty with the CDs 
and used books, and its not ex
actly like students can walk into 
the bookstore for an ounce. Most 
students get drugs from their 
friends who are connected one 
way or another. Roman has 
friends from New York, who on 
occasion, have gone home to bring 
back a supply of acid. Sam, who 
spends about $30 a week on drugs, 
will sometimes drive four hours 
home for his supply. Its not a 
bad weekend trip, he said.
When not picking his halluc
inogens off the shrubbery, Cliff 
generally gets drugs from friends 
or people he comes across. When 
somethings around, you say to 
someone, Im interested in that. 
You lay down a little cash, and 
get high with whoever is there.
Carla, who is now off 
ofeverything, said that the drug 
scene is mostly freshmen experi
menting with their new found 
freedom. As people get older, Ive 
noticed theyve kind of straight
ened out ... basically, Im more 
into school now ... now that Ive 
experienced everything, its like 
over with. And while her previ
ous drug use may have been 
mostly for the purpose of satisfy
ing her curiosity, Carla also at
tributed her experimenting to the 
connection that sharing drugs 
forms. Its ... like a friendshipbonding thing, she said.
The thing about any scene at 
CMU is that its a geek variation 
of any real scene, Cliff said. Stu
dents agreed that the CMU drug 
scene is not some sort of secretly 
established society where people 
walk around campus knowing
whos part of the scene and who>r 
not. Indiga, who at home gets her 
marijuana from a crack house, .* 
said that the drug scene here is . 
really mellow. Shell usually 
smoke with various members of a 
12-15 persongroup. She said that 
to get high with someone else is a.. 
bonding experience, and that she.; 
and a friend actually huggeiK; 
when they each found out thaf 1;; 
the other was into marijuana. M;|
The law
The security has increased! : 
around here, said Sam. There I ;i 
have been four drug busts (all for .* ' 
marijuana) so far this semesterr.  
However, most of the students-1 > 
interviewed expressed little, if I  
any, concern. If youre under thkv1 
impression that marijuanas ille> 
gal, then youre pretty far off^  j 
Patrick said.
Chief Lapaglia made it clear I;i 
that Patrick is the one whos mis
taken. Three of the four busts 
from this semester have come 0 
from scenarios like campus p<5-'; 
lice being called to a residence .  
hall to open a door for a locked out,. 
student, only to detect the scent, 
of marijuana emanating from  
another nearby room. , ,
The odor is enough to qualify . 
for on view evidence and pro_ 
vides the police with probable ! 
cause. Were going to ask to b!e ' 
let in, Lapaglia said, and if the^y  
dont let us in, were coming in 1 
anyway... we have a duty at that  
point to enter the room. Lapaglia 
also said that in the event that  
police enter a room with illegal 
narcotics, everyone in that room j 
is guilty of possession, whether ; 
they are personally using drug's  
or not.
Smart people
Smart people using drugs is 1 
different from stupid people us1 
ing drugs. Its for different rea; 
sons, Carla said. One thing she 1 
was sure of: You cant graduate 1 
from CMU on drugs. Still, it j 
would seem that Cliff, Sam, and 1 
plenty of others are trying.
Bellcore is a leading provider of 
communications software and 
consulting services based on world 
class research. We develop the 
strategies that make information 
technology work for telecommuni
cations carriers, businesses and 
governments worldwide.
Our team is a particularly bright 
and gifted group. This is evident in 
the number of patents with our 
name attached - and the numerous 
international awards we've received 
for technical achievement
Needless to say our development 
resources are exceptional.
We're ideally positioned to play 
a key role in facilitating the 
creation of the global information 
infrastructure - and we are preparing 
for that role by adding substantial 
brain power.
That means we're extremely eager 
to talk to candidates with Bachelor's 
or Masters Degrees in Computer 
Science, Computer Engineering, 
Electrical Engineering or Systems 
Engineering. We prefer a GPA that 
confirms persistence, insight, drive, 
results orientation - and. of course, 
an ability to consistently come up 
with right answers.
So if you are determined to work 
with brilliant people who are 
capable of inventing a different 
future - make a smart move and 
arrange to see us when we visit 
your campus on:
Sunday, October 8
Astro Zombies
ummmmmm.... it stars John Didnt I See You in 
Kids'! Carridine. Ummmmmm...
ummmmmm.... written by some guys, two of 
them, I think. Its about...
Astro...
Zombies.
Pretty much covers it. Like a fine pastry left in 
your basement by house guests, this movie has a 
fine mold. Lou, vacuum!
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.

---------------------------------------------------

US B El II
To whom it may concern: SOUP!
Get out of my life, Rudy, you reckless 
driver.
Go Buka, GO!
Thanks for the wicked-cool dinner, Alice...
bwoauaoaop bwoauap!
there's a pahty ova here!
Babe?
Erin,
Nice rolling. Be swell.
ox Jropua
Voice of tfce Pe
1
>Ie
 Paramount Pictures
search Semester, PO Box 23575, Washington, 
DC, 20026-3575, email: SERS@orau.gov, or look 
at the website: http://www.orau.gov/seed/sers/ 
sersgi.html. Deadline for application for Spring 
1996 is Oct. 20.-
Religioi
The Jewish University Center hosts the 
Kol Nidre dinner and service on Oct. 3. Dinner 
will take place 5:30 pm in the CMU Student 
Center. Conservative service will take place at 
6:30 pm in-the Drill Deck. Also reform service 
will take place at 6:30 pm Rm. 207. Cost is $5. 
For reservations, call 621- 8875.
The First Church of Christ Abortionist will 
have a pilgrimage to a shrine on Friday, Oct. 6. 
Journey of faith will begin at 5th floor of Wean 
Hall at 7 pm. For more information, email 
fcca+@andrew.
Pittsburgh Area Pax Christi will begin 
sponsoring a liturgy on the first Saturday 
evening of each month beginning this Saturday 
at 5:30 pm. Mass will follow at Duquesne 
University Towers in the campus Ministry 
Lounge, 1345 Vickroy St. For more information, 
please call 782-0801 or 363- 0914.
.......... Thealrt
Carnegie Mellon Drama presents the 
Steven Schwartz musical Pippin at the
Kresge Theatre in the College of Fine Arts, 
Sept. 29 through Oct. 7. For ticket information, 
call 268-2407.
The Boyd Campus Theatre present's The 
Holdup by Marsha Norman, running Oct. 19- 
21 and 26-28 at 8 pm. General admission $7. 
Call 325-6743 for more information.
Mephisto will show in DH 2210 Thursday at 
5, 7:30,10 pm and 12:30 am.
Don Juan De Marco plays in DH 2210 
Friday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Under Siege 2 takes place this Saturday in 
DH 2210 at 5:30, 7:45,10 pm, and 12:15 am.
Astro Zombies will play in DH 2210 Sunday 
at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
The Carnegie Museum of Art and Natural 
History will host its 12th annual Carnegie on 
Tap, an evening of fun held at the museum of 
art and natural history, on Oct. 20 from 6 to 11 
pm for adults 21 years and older. Tickets are 
$20 before Oct. 20 and $22.50 thereafter.
. The Andy Warhol Museum presents the 
exhibition, Celebrity Photographs, from 
October until March. For more information, call 
622-3316.
The Carnegie will launch a 15-month 
Centennial Celebration with an extraordi
nary salute to the city and people of Pitts
burgh. For 28 continuous hours, beginning at 5 
pm this Friday and ending at 9 pm on Satur
day, the Carnegie will host a massive birthday 
party, opening the doors of its four Museums 
and the Main Branch of the Library free to the 
people. Call 622-3126.
Painting, sculpture, film and video installa
tions by 36 artists from 16 countries will be on 
view at the Carnegie Museum of Art, Nov. 5 
through Feb. 18. For more information call 
622-6509.
The Womens Committee of the Carnegie 
Museum of Art will dedicate its annual 
decorative arts symposium to the preservation 
of the historic house, particularly in England, 
America, and in Italy. The symposium will take 
place in the Museum of Art on Oct. 23 from 9:30 
am to 2:30 pm. Call 622-5558.
The Heinz Architectural Center brings 
together Monolithic Architecture, nine archi
tectural projects in a provocative exhibition.
The show will run from Oct. 1 to Feb. 11 at The 
Carnegie Museum of Art. Contact Lisa 
Kirchner at 622-3316.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts will 
exhibit recent allegorical paintings of Odd 
Nerdrum from Oct. 13-Dec. 31. For more 
information, call 361-0873.
.... Meetings
Living With Death: Perspectives on Capital 
Punishment, an open forum on death penalty 
issues will take place at the University of Pitts
burgh School of Law in the Benjamin Teplitz 
Moot Courtroom this Saturday from 10:30 am to 
5:00 pm. Call 361-3608 or 648-1374.
The American Indian Gathering will be held 
on Oct. 14th and 15th at the Community College 
of Beaver County Dome in Monaca, Pa. The 
festivities are from 10 am until 10 pm on Satur
day and from 11 am to 4 pm on Sunday. Call 
774-0998.
The YWCA of Greater Pittsburgh will be 
holding its third annual Womens Survival 
Series at its facility located at 305 Wood Street. 
The series is a free lunch time mini-series of 
topics of interest to women of all ages. Its held 
every Tuesday in October, 12:10 pm-12:55 pm in 
Conference Room C on the 4th floor. Call 391- 
5100 xl416.
All history majors, minors and faculty are
invited to come to the History Society meeting at
4:30 pm October 5 in Baker Hall 245 C.
The Society will meet with Dr. J. Granvill who 
will present Muddling Through Moscow: Sifting 
for Gold in Russian Archives. Please do come 
and join your fellow majors and minors. They 
will also be offering free food (pizza and soft 
drinks) at the meeting. Send questions to 
Maggie Puskar at mp5q. -n r 
WQED joins the Pittsburgh Symphony in
kicking off the 1995-96 centennial season on 
Friday with a national live broadcast from the 
newly renovated Heinz Hall. Please tune in to 
WQED FM 89.3 on Friday from 8 to 11 pm to 
enjoy the first concert of the season, which will 
be a selection of Beethovens works conducted 
by Lorin Mazel.
The University of Pittsburgh Department 
of Music begins its Music on the Edge series 
on Saturday with Music by Donald Martino, 
played by pianist Eliza Garth, violinist Rolf 
Schulte, and clarinetist Jean Kopperud, all 
from New York. It will take place at the Frick 
Fine Arts Auditorium at 8 pm.
The Cocktails, a hip lounge-jazz ensemble 
from Chicago, return to town on Tuesday, Oct. 
10, to play an all-ages, 9 pm show at Lucianos 
Cafe (on Forbes Ave. across from Duquesne). 
The opening band is Vehicle Fiips, and admis
sion is $6. For more information, call.281-6877.
God Is My Co-Pilot, a gay-positive jazz-punk 
band from New York City, plays an over 21 
show at 9 pm on Wednesday, Oct. 11, at Cloud 
9, located at 19th and Smallman in the Strip 
District. Opening are Sugarsmack and Swob. 
Tickets are $5. Call 281-8277 for questions.
The Mommyheads, an indie-pop band from
- San Fransisco, play an all-ages 9 pm show at 
Lucianos Cafe on Friday, Oct. 1? with openers 
Smoking Pets and Liontamer. Admission is $5. 
Call 281- 6877 for more information.
Notices
Writrs in the Kitchen, a series of poetry 
and prose by well known writers, will be held 
Tuesdays, Oct 17 and 24 at 7:30 pm at the 
Rainbow Kitchen in Homestead. The series 
benefits the lunch and pantry programs which 
provide supplemental foods to needy area 
families. Donations a the door are $5. Call 464- 
1892.
The Beehive hosts its Fall Reading Series
every Thursday at 8 pm. This week is Marcus 
Cafagna. For more information, call 683-4483,.
Pittsburgh Magazine is looking for editorial 
interns. Duties would include: fact checking, 
research, writing, and proofreading. Send cover 
letters, resumes, and/or writing portfolios to: 
Georgia Bouzos, Pittsburgh Magazine, 4802 
Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15213, or call 622- 
6424.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts invites 
regional artists to submit slide documentation 
of their artwork for consideration for the 1996 
Biennial. Selection of the artists will be made 
through slide presentation, studio visits, and 
slide/video/audio presentation for kinetic and 
installation work. Deadline is Nov. 20,1995. 
Please send a resume and a maximum of 16 
slides or no more than ten minutes of videotape 
to: 1996 Biennial, Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts, Pittsburgh, PA 15232.
If you are a sophomore, junior, or a senior 
studying computer science, engineering, 
physics, environmental and life sciences, 
mathematics or physical science, and have 
a QPA above 3.0, you may be eligible to partici
pate in a Science and Engineering Research 
Semester sponsored by the US Department of 
Energy. For more information, call: (202)488- 
2426, or write: Science and Engineering Re
The Hewlett Gallery and the International 
Festival presents West Meets East by Ameri
can artist and Carnegie Mellon alumnus Allan 
West, Oct. 2-26. The opening reception will 
take place this Thursday from 5-7 pm. Call 
268-3877.Johnny Depp stars as the title role In Don Juan deMarco, which is playing this Saturday in Doherty Hall.
\
