INTERFRATERNITY 
FORMAL 
HOTEL SCHENLEY. FRI.
THURS. 12:30
CHAPEL 
ARTS THEATRE
VOL. XXII NO. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1928
WILL HOLD ANNUAL'tre^ks WI LHO DANU't r e^I' Dk'OsC hkIfi
PLEBE PR0A\ENADE|Could you find time to dig down into | 
, the dust of your childhood play cub;TIIF^FlA Y A PR I I 1 fjiboard ant* unearth all your old and IULJU/11, nl IVIL lUj long ,forgotten storv books? Remem -
----------------- ' j ber how you used to love to
them
DlU'HLli dNIC L^ dH^'HLC of JIo
Clown Band of Freshmen to 
Lead Colorful Parade
Sprig lias cub! Or at least spring 
read i *las thrown her shadow before her. 
Books of pirates, goblins, j Cast your eye and ear about and be t; 
fairies, princesses, and knightsproconvinced. y
0jf;duce them all and leave them in The sun shines a little. The men 
room 103 in Margaret -Morrison or in j discard their gloves (the only tangible
Skins and the faculty their, frowns
and long underwear, (you just know
they wear em). Around the corner j United Presbyterian
you hear a toooot! and jump for your | Davis has assured us that 
life. Why cant drivers toot their will be well worth listening 
horns before they graze your latest
Motley Dressed Studentsla box in front of the office in Arts! evidence of winter the college man al^a'1' 011 ^  But 110 cars in sight
__________ School. These story .books are lows to exist in his wardrobe); t.li9 |uierely, a masculine person holding a. kyuiLUWi, > uwu\. .1 vv j . ^ IT O LU 111 14*0 II I ) , 111 vi
I wanted for the little kiddies of the St. women discard their bearskins; tho SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES i Margarets Hospital. They enjoy | plebettes forget to wear their arm
TO CHOOSE WINNERSreading of the princes and princesses i bands (Wool is so warm, you know'.
Fred Woods Appointed Chairman 
of Committee to Handle 
Details of Prom
just as you once did. It is the Wom
en's Guild that is making this appeal 
to the girls and fellows of Carnegie. 
A little effort on your part will bring 
to some child many happy hours.
The 1928 Plebe Prom will be held 
Tuesday, April 10, during the Assem
bly period. This is the time when all 
Plebes dress up in any costume they 
choose, and the ones having the best 
costumes wiil be excused from Regu
lations for the rest of the year.
The Plebe Prom presents a golden 
opportunity, to those who are fretting 
under the ' bonds'1 of the very loosely 
enforced regulations. From 5 to S 
Frosh will be exempt in each school 
depending upon the enrollment of the 
class in that particular school.
Fred Woods was appointed as gen
eral chairman of the committee incharge of the affair. The other members of the committee are: Jean
Mather, President of the Margaret 
Morrison Senate; Mark L. S'eibert, 
President of the Arts Senate, and 
Fenton Finn, President of the Science 
.Senate. Divisional assemblies will be 
held in all the schools after which all 
the Plebes will form and parade
and particularly plaids); the plebes 
take off their cotton socks, probably 
for the first time since the beginning 
of regulations(I mean, of course, for 
the first time during the day); tho 
faculty discards long underwear and
Industries Smoker Tol Jfi rpusskips
; . , And then it rains! The campusBe Given In Union stops skipping and instead dashes madly for shelter. The men put ohSaturday /Warch 24 111 eir gioves-tiie 'vinen theni,earr
great white square of cloth to his 
liose and for the Chinaman. The 
Near East question again!
About this time of year, the entire 
campus mourns the approach of spring 
vacation. Everywhere red noses, 
tear-laden eyes, swollen faces, a pro
fusion-of handkerchiefs, and a pecu
liarly mournful speech are the order 
of the day. You are greeted with, 
-Some bordig, ait it.? and you reply, 
What's at to you.
Yep, thems the signs of spring all 
right. Take warning and keep away 
from goldenrod and golden blondes.
Stunts by Various Dept's to 
be Featured; Science 
Men are Invited
The Industries Smoker is to be held 
in the Union, Saturday, March 24. 
Plans for this event are being worked 
| out by the chairman, James Hughes, 
in preparing a good time.
The date was set after the decision 
to hold the affair before Easter was 
made. Although the committee has 
not yet been announced or notified, 
much work has been done in the plan
ning of tlie affair, This years pro
gram will consist-of stunts put on by 
around** the Campra! ~ The 'divisional each of Industries Departments, Printassemblies will be in charge of the inf. Building Construction and Works 
President ot the Senate of that school i Management. Alpha Tau will also 
assisted by the class presidents and  Present a stu.it. In addition to this 
those Sophomores who make up the I a movie has been arranged. Of 
Regulations Committee. ! course, there will be refreshments.
Every plebe must be tlierjB in cos; The Faculty may be expected to
tume or a severe penalty, a haircut, present their usual stunt. It Isn't
will bo meted out to all absentees. (V | known, but hoped, that the popularity 
close checkup will be made so that no , contest of last year will be continued. 
Plebe will be unaccounted for. April j Some interesting facts were dis10 is the day school starts after the i covered about several individuals 011 
Easter vacation but that will be no (the campus through the contest, 
excune fur any absences. A down 1 \yhat else there is to be is reserved 
(Continued on Page Two). as a surprise, and the smokers sur_________________ | prises are usually pleasant ones.
CAMPUS WEEK C0MM1TTFE j 
TO MEET IN COUNCIL ROOMj by individual students over the entire 
_________ j campus.;
.____ mmmittee ' Al1 alumni are privileged to attendThe first meeting of he comtoWee j ^ ^ ^ rep||enta.
in charge of stu. j'lion will help to make the event a
held tonight a .. p.  ^ I greater success than it ever has beendent Council office, Room 124-C, on tne TT , , , .
right-hand side of , the Y. M. C. A.
CAMPUS QUEEN VOTING j COUNCIL MAKES REPORT 
TO BEGIN.WED., MAR. 21 ! OF FINANCES TO MAR. ]
CHAPEL SERVICE TO HAVE
SPECIAL FEATURE TODAY
Chapel will be held in the Little
Theater from 11:30 to 12:00 today. I
The speaker for the service will be the 
Rev. A. R. Robinson, D. D. of the Sixth i 
Church. Mr. |
the talk | 
to.
There is to be a special feature prej 
sented by the Music Department. A : 
mixed double quartet will sing one of 
Wareiugs compositions, He endet! 
the Spring. This hymn will vary j 
the program a little and since it is 
taking the place of the usual solo the j 
program will not be loifger than 
usual. Charles Shotts, also of the ! 
Music Department, will act as organ-' 
ist.
INTER-FRATERNITY 
FORMAL AT HOTEL 
SCHENLEY FRIDAY
Arrangements for Serving 
Continuos Supper, 10:30 to 1 
Meets With High Approval
FLETCH" HENDERSON 
TO PLAY FOR GREEKS
Patrons and Patronesses Secured 
for Formal Friday Night .
Three Ballots to Decide the Most j Woods Approved as Chairman of
Employment Bureau 
Will Aid Seniors In 
Securing Interviews
Nationally Known Firms to 
Send Representatives 
to Carnegie
Popular Senior Woman 
on Campus
All Fools' Day to be Held 
March 27The Bureau of Reoommendatlons is 
! well 011 its way in t)ie work of-locating
On Wednesday, March 21, the first 
ballot for the Queen of the' 1928 Cam
pus Week will be cast. Each student 
may vote for any one girl in the 
Senior Class of either Margaret Mor
rison or Arts School, and the fifteen 
girls receiving the highest number of 
votes will be considered as candidates 
for the honor of Campus Queen.
As is the custom, three ballots will 
be cast.. The first will nominate  fif
teen girls. Tn the second, held the 
following week, three girls will be se
lected from the fifteen candidates and 
after the Easter holidays the final 
ballot will be cast by which the Queen 
of the Ninth Annual Campus Week 
will be chosen. Ballot, boxes will be 
provided in the main hall of each of 
the four schools with two girls ami 
a member of tlie school senate in 
charge. In order to prevent anj I 
over-enthusiastic voting the.name ohl 
each student will be recorded as hycasts his ballot. Students should vott 
only in the college in which they are 
j registered.
The, privilege of voting is open to 
nil day students of Carnegie, both men 
and women, and it; is extremely im
portant that every student should vote 
In all three elections if the girl 
chosen is to be the popular choice of!
At the Student Council meeting of 
March t>, Mr. Crandell 'presented 
financial statements showing status 
of Student. Council arid subsidiary 
budget organizations as of March 1, 
192S.
Mr. Seibert read a letter from the
openings for the seniors who will be 
j leaving our campus at the end of this 
semester. The personnel representa
tives of many firms have signified 
their intention to visit Carnegie, and 
several have already none so. In ad
dition there are many companies who 
are interested in receiving applica
tions by mail. The bureau will proDruids asking that the money made vtde the names of tliese companies, 
on the soph Hop be carried over to ; Arl-anBoment i.ave been made In
help defray (he expenses of next I the employment oftlce t0 sot nHl(lu 
years Junior Prom. There was also la|),e (m whM, w| bookIot8
I a discussion as to the advisability ot | an(, ,|leratui.0 aenllllg wtth
collecting dues In the registration , |u,ta am, |h(, uiti(-s that the
line. A suggestion was made that the varloUB companies offer. This Is a 
Council refuse to pay damages until | (llHllnct am,lc tll0 ,-n.duating H6. 
I Class dues had been collected. A | |or s(n00 ,t, lielpB hl, niooL Ul0
of eachmotion was carried t,o, the effoct that 
Student. Council pay no. more class 
I damages until a plan is devised by 
I which compulsory class dues can bo 
| collected.
Mr. Rogers reported that tickern 
will be given out in the Registrar 
office from 9 to 12 oclock and I to 
5 oclock every day, and that students 
must sign for the tickets. Mr. Finn 
asked for permission to have 8 or 10 
tickets for 'Partan Staff every Friday 
night. Tho secretary was instructed 
to write a letter of permission to Mr. 
Heebie.
A motion was carried approving the
moo
repuosentut.ivo of each anil every com
pany on an equal basis, lie need not 
be ill at ease or embarrassed by not 
knowing what the company does or 
what the company expects of men 
that affiliate with lt.(
Following i.na list of. the companies 
that are sending representatives to 
Carnegie in the near future:
National Cash Register Company, 
March 19, 1928. Mr. J. E. Frantz, and 
Mr. C. F. Johnson.
American Blower Corporation, 
March 20, 1928, Mr. J. L. McCann. 
Cutler Hammer Company, March
The Gavotte of the Greeks promises 
more and more every day to be the 
greatest success in years. The latest, 
and most pleasing piece of work don 
by the committee is the cancelling of 
the contract with Bert Stocks Or
chestra and the securing, in their 
stead, of Fletcher Henderson's 
Stompers. This is due to the for
tunate fact that Fletcli' and his boys 
aro coming down from the Savoy Ball 
Room in Newr York, to. playv  at 
Saunder's the night following the 
Forinal, and with great diplomacy 
they were persuaded to arrive here 
twenty-fours earlier in order to hit 
things up for the. fraternity boys at 
their gathering next Friday night, 
March ltit.li at the Scbenley Hotel.
It. has been arranged to serve sup
per continuously from 10:30 to .1:00 
thus allowing the dancers to eat when 
I hey desire, while nothing can inter
fere with the music for those' who 
would rather dance than eat.
The tax for the tickets is $5.00. 
This includes the dance, dinner and 
favors. It has been whispered about 
that the favors are to be beyond 
doubt tho best and most unique over 
given at. any Tecli -dance.
The patrons and patroness,ods aro 
as follows: Dean Groon, Doan Tarbett, 
Professor and Mrs. Charles C. Leeds, 
Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Kirk-Patrlck, Mr. 
and Mrs. J. C. Moreliead, and Mr. 
and Mrs.- A. J. Wurts.
The da,nee committee consists of: 
Chairman C. P. Hamilton, Sigmn 
Alpha Epsilon; treasurer, J. Seibert, 
Sigma Nu; H. H. Hunter, Kappa 
Sigma; J. Difftey, Delta Tati Delta; 
P. C. Pratt, Delta Upsilon.
WOMENS SENIOR BALL 
WAS A GREAT SUCCESS
office. Chairman William Kunlcle will, 
take charge and will announce the 
plans and preparations to b,e made for 
the 1928 Campus Week to take place 
on May 4 and 5.
A new events committee, headed
before. Mi'. Hughes has arranged tosend a card to all alumni in this disi Cnml>us,Queen is not 11 l>e"u,y n-: Carnegie Foundation Fund.___________ rni_I test. The Queen of Carnegies cam-j Mr. II. R. Loxterman was approvedtrict welcoming them, 
sphool students are
The
also
scienceI pus week must bo eligibleschotusti-1 as now Advertising Manager of the
since the science Stag has belH^ ""l IS-0hffi ,he .bnte [ I T>>.ppet' and'Mr'.'' Woods' waTacccpfcd
continued.
The reason for this is that no one 
could be found who would assumeby T. C. Wray, will be formed to make , refiponsibmty fo,. t6 affa.
plans for new attractions, to take place , ^ commiUee cxtenag a ecial
on the Saturday afternoon o, Campus , vlatati0n PlcbeR t0 mme an(l moef
Week, These new events will replace ! tSe,r teacl)erg and fellow students ol
Fair of previous years , of fl|e class^0m There . W|M be
under poor ; ^ Vot.s fQ1.
the Country 
which had been held 
weather conditions. T. 
senior in Commercial
poor 
'C. Wray, aeveryone and in. v - cidentally, since this is to be a * ^ Engineering, smokel.( pientv of smokes, plenty to 
who has been appomted chairman of eat> and pIeilty of entertainment.'this committee, is a member of the __________________
Tau Beta Pi, honorary fraternity;' a.
member of Alpha Tau Omega, social j rOUrtll Afintlilr InStitUtC 
fraternity, and also belong to Scabi ^
bard and Blade. i F0f 1 jUrnbCFS MSr. 2 1 23
Two Margaret Morrison girls, Anj .__________
nabel Turner and Helen Boothhave
been appointed assistant secretaries 
to aid in the work of the general com
mittee.
Neither the site nor the play of the 
annual Campus Week show has been 
chosen. Two plays are being consid
ered and the decision will be an
nounced soon. As the quality of pre
vious Campus Week shows has been 
unusually high, the committee is giv
ing particular consideration as to the 
choice of the piay. Due to the fact 
that the date of Campus-Week has 
been set earlier in the year, there will 
be difficulty in obtaining a theater 
suitable for the show, but the com
mittee hopes to arrange this matter 
successfully in the next few weeks.
'SCARAB HONORARY ELECTS
OFFICERS FOR COMING YEAR
At the last meeting of Scarab, na
tional professional architectural fra
ternity, which was held at the Sigma 
Nu House on Tuesday evening, the 
sixth of March, officers were elected 
for the coming year.
The new men who were elected to 
office will go into office immediately 
and will be in their positions until 
this time next year. The men who 
were elected are: J. Rietz, Pi Kappa
Alpha, president; George Petticord, 
Beta Theta Pi, vice president; E. Co
vert, Sigma Nu, treasurer; D. Lytle, 
Nu Delta Alpha, secretary; K. Heidrich. Alpha Sigma Phi, sergeant-atarms.
The fourth annual Institute for the 
Plumbing, Heating and Ventilating 
Industries will be held on March 21, 
22, and 23, in Industries College for 
the purpose of discussing problems of 
j business, advertising, and accounting 
I as related to the various branches of 
! industry concerned.
There will be two lectures on Ac
counting by William T. Crandell, as
sistant professor of commercial en
gineering and a lecture on Business 
and the Plumbing and Heat Contrac
tor by Dr. Walter F. Rittman, pro
fessor and head of the Department of 
Commercial Engineering.
Professor H. S. Hower, head of the 
Physics Department will speak on 
Heat; A. H. Blaisdell, assistant pro
fessor of mechanical engineering, will 
speak on Water Heating and Sam
uel E. Dibble, holder of a Theodore 
Ahrens Professorship in Plumbing, 
Heating and Ventilating will speak on 
Codes and Ethics, as part of the 
program of events. There will also 
be demonstrations in syphonage and 
venting traps, welding, steam line 
connections and steam pipe sizes.
.The Institute, primarily beneficial 
to master plumbers and all actively 
engaged in the. plumbing, heating and 
ventilating industries opens Wednes
day morning, March 21, with regis
tration and includes lectures and 
demonstrations on Wednesday after
noon and all day Thursday and Fri
day. Dr. C. B. Connelley, director of 
Industrial Relations is being aided, 
(Continued on Page Two).
- - i - -*--------- ----------    . -1 1928, Mr. P. B. Harwood.the four schools. However it is to be j Student Council's gift of $S,000 in  Goodyear Tiro and Rubber Company, 
remembered that the election of the j securities and a check for $500 for the | March 22, 1928, Mr. M. kMIIondorshott.
American Stool and Wlro Company, 
March 2(i, 1928, Mr, E. W. Kemplon.
From time to time tho Tartan will 
publish additional lists of companies. 
It is the wish of the bureau that any 
senior, desiring to Interview or inves
tigate any of theso companies, Inform 
the Employmont Bureau sufficiently in 
advance that arrangements can be 
made. It is co-operation of this type 
that will make it possible for repre
sentatives of the many firms to inter
view the greatest number of men 
with a minimum loss of time. In co
operating in such a manner, you not 
(Continued on Page Two).
(popularity. 'She should be a true repj as chairman of All Fools Day 
resentative of the best of Carnegie, i n was decided that the Carnegie 
According to an established custom Quarterly must be a bndgot organiza
tion under Student Council accordingthe queen is attended at the corona
tion ceremony by the fourteen girls 
selected as candidates on the first Imito Student Council Constitution and 
it was also recommended that budget
the' two girls chosen on the second 
ballot. The plans for the. crowning 
of the Campus Queen have not --yet 
been announced. For several years
lot. her immediate ilttendajits being | aI)d (ufC be presented soon for up
proval.
A motion was carried that funds be 
appropriated to get a rug for the Stuj dent Council office. The date forthe ceremony was performed In the ; A11 Poo|s. Day was se| for March 27.
open air theater behind the Arts j _________________
School immediately after the Corona-:- n , i ------------------------------
tion Dance. Last year it was 'eld, Vice 1rCSlClCIlt tlCCteCl
just as successfully 011 the main steps > n , . c___:______vauaeviiie now to Have
of the Gymnasium building. Tho I By IndUStfieS SeniOfS 1
Dramatization in connection with the 
ceremony is in charge of student.? 
from the Drama Department.
The results of the first election will 
be published in the Tartan of March 
27. On March 28 tlie second ballot
New Secret Presentation
At an election held last Thursday, 
March 8, the senior class of the Col
lege of Industries elected James B. 
wii vi ti un -o u ociiunu uciiiu.. Hughes vice president of their class. *,w LIA1C T'U| James Hughes is a senior in the De-will be cast and 011 April 11 the final b
election will be held.
Travel Issue of Puppet 
Due to Arrive March 20
All ye would-be summer travelers 
will have an opportunity .to pick up 
a few tricks of the trade when the 
Travel Number of the Puppet makes 
its appearance on the campus one 
week from today.
One of the most important features 
will be the cover, designed by Mr. 
John Can-, an alumnus of the Paint
ing and Decorating Department. This 
cover, tis said, will be the best of any 
so far this year. It is so effective 
that when one gazes at it, one will 
immediately take up traveling.
The rest of the magazine will be 
equally as clever and breezy as the 
cover. New and unheard of modes 
of travel, how to emulate a fellow 
named. Lindbergh, and how to go 
farther in a shorter length of time 
will be explained and discussed in this 
latest feature ofthe Puppet Staff.
So put two bits away in your sicks, 
boys and girls, and one week from to
day (five days after the Ides of 
March) this choice morsel of valua
ble and priceless information on so 
popular a subject will be yours.
partment of Works Management 
member of the Theta Xi fraternity, 
chairman of industries smoker and 
manager of the varsity swimming 
team.
On the first ballot cast for treasurer 
of the Industries Senate, 110 one re
ceived a majority of votes, which is 
necessary to place a man in office, so 
a revote is being held today, for the 
highest two nien on the ballot. The 
two remaining candidates are Roy'IT. 
Watterson of the Department of Build
ing Construction and Gordon V. Durr 
of the Department of Printing and 
Publishing. Roy Watterson is a mem
ber of Alpha Tau Omega and Gordon 
Durr is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha.
Besides being treasurer of the 
Science Senate, the winner of this 
election will also he the junior repre
sentativo of the College of Industries 
in the Student Council, the senior rep
resentative the following year.
Donald McClure, chairman of the 
Campus Week Vaudeville Show, has 
appointed his committee to be O. 
Brown, Abe Feder, in charge' of lights, 
and Johnny Walker, stage manager.
In the near future tryouts for the 
acts will be held in the Union. The 
date will be announced later.
Any girls who would like to dance 
should see Katherine 'Siebokl in the 
Drama Department.
The presentation will be rather 
novel this year, differing a great deal 
from other years. The details of the 
case are not known, and they will re
main a secret until the show opens.
Amherst, Mass.(IP)Only fifteen 
of almost four hundred who voted on 
the matter of retention or abolition of 
the honor system at Amherst College, 
voted for a return to the faculty proc
tor system. According to the Amherst 
Student there were many suggestions 
for the betterment of the eyetem but 
the overwhelming majority favored 
retention of the plan.
J. O. MILLER TO SPEAK 
AT IND. ASSEMBLY MAR. 20
Mrs. J. O. Miller, prominent in 
Pittsburgh civic work, will speak at 
the Industries Assembly to be held 
next Tuesday, March 20, at 11:30. 
The subject of her talk will be Our 
Civic Duties. In connection with 
the presentation of this subject a 
model of the new voting machine will 
bo set up and demonstrated. This 
voting machine is in use In several 
states and the question of its use In 
Pennsylvania will como before the 
voters at the next general election in 
the state. Mrs. Miller has delivered 
several talks 011 the use of the voting 
machine in this district and is well 
qualified to present the matter to 
Carnegie students.
Tho Women's Senior Ball, which 
took placo last Friday in tho attractivo Blue Room of tho William Penn 
Hotel was oven more delightful than 
tho most optimistic had expected. 
Front tho moment Puck Mills' orches
tra played tho first notes of the first 
dance till the last couple reluctantly 
left the ballroom, tho pleasure of the 
dancers was evident. Tho orchestra 
fully justified Its reputation as one of. 
tho best in this part of the country,-, 
the music at the senior ball was littleshort of perfect.
Another feature which contributed-: 
to the success of tho event was the3 
beauty and utility of tho combjncd. 
favors and programs. These wore 
small black leather billfolds enclosing 
dainty programs of the dances. The 
men, for whom the favors were' de
signed, were delighted with'the serv
iceable as well as the sentimental 
value of the billfolds.
A buffet supper was served to the 
dancers, the light refreshments and 
the informality of the service adding 
to the festivity of the occasion more 
effectively than a dinner.
To the senior women of Margaret 
Morrison and the College of Fine Arts 
much credit is due for their support 
and co-operation which made possible 
the exceptional success of the annual 
senior dance. And especially do the 
committees deserve praise for the 
faithful service and executive ability 
which they devoted to the giving-of 
the senior ball. I-Iannali Eastriian, 
who headed the committees, .proved 
herself a splendid manager, while the 
committees under her direction merit 
no less commendation for the plan
ning and execution of their work.
WOMENS ORG. WILL DISPOSE 
OF SCHOLARSHIP MONEY FR1.
The Womens Organization will hold 
an important meeting at the Carnegie 
Inn, Friday, , March 1(5, at 12:20, at 
which they will definitely decide to 
What organizations they will give the 
scholarship money. Duo to somo or
ganizations having already paid th^ir 
scholarships, the money raised by the 
benefit performance, Oh, Kay, which 
approximately amounts to .1:450, must 
be disposed of among the remaining 
organizations for the purpose of pay
ing this semesters scholarships.
Every member of the organizationis urgently requested to be present at 
this important meeting.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1928
[clan directory]
NOTE: The dan Directory given bolow 1 
Incomplete, and in noma canon, pouaibly incorrect II. hon Ixten compiled, however, from too 
latent available data. Any correction or nddltionn ahould Ik* nt In immediately to the 
Alumni Ofiice.
BALTIMORE 
, p14.<, G. S. Diehl, Hollona Avnue. Secretary and Treimurer, V. H. Dickey, l.#18 
Continental Building.
BOSTON
Secretary, .John F. Maxwell, 70 Went Street, 
'Braintree, Maun.
INTTERF
Prenident, Itoborl Porter, 130 Hort SOCttitary and Tremmrer, Herbert L. MocrBnfelder, 114 Kotchum Place.
CANTON
IWdont, Frank 1. Tnylor, r.is All PI, 
N. W., Canton, Ohio.Vice Preiddent, Henry L, Borgor, 010 Green 
Street, MaUBlllon, Ohio.
Secretary, Wilmer H. Tucker, 12.J0Mi Cleve
land Avenue, N. W. ............. . ,Troanurer, George A. Martin, 31f> Ninth 
; Street, N. E.
CHICAGO
Chairman, C. .1. Coploy. 588 Wrljfley Building. 
Finance Committee, Huntley Wallace, Chalrr man ; Vic StromqulBt, John HarkneBu. 
Proicram Gommittoo, John Nation, Chairman: 
Harvey Hiller, Mrn. H. W. Davin.
Momborhip Committee, G. B. Schmldb, 
man; Mrn. John HnrlcneiiB, Iliad Wheeler. 
Publicity, F. W. Cook.All oommunicationa uhould l>e addreBHed to 
C. .1. Copley.
CINCINNATI 
'preiddent, G. C. Smith, Chemical Department, 
University of Cincinnati.
CLEVELAND 
PwnldenO, A. G. May, PeerleBB Automatic 
Machine Company.Vice Prenident, It. H. , Humbert, 1840 East
Secretary, E. P. Batcham, 1080 Union Truflt
Trennuror, L. C. Luntenborgor, 1819 Eatst 101st 
Street.
CLEVELAND WOMENS CLAN 
Proflldent, Katherine Kerr, lUilB Eimt 116th
VlcerPrcBident, Alice Nelnon Koppea, 11179 
Eaflt 82nd Street. .Secretary and TreaBurer, Catherine Allan, 02/ 
Emit 124th Street.
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
Prenidont, N. J. Engle, 2GG South Hiiih St. 
Vice Preaident, Florence H. LuU, 91 South 
Market Streot, Lotfan, Ohio.
Secretary and Treasurer, J. R. Palomn, Department of Romance Lngungen, Ohio 
Stale University.
CONNECTICUT 
Prenident, C. Arthur Nordstrom, 17 Storllng 
Street', Hartford.Vico Preaident, William Gooby, 10 Madison 
.Street, New Britain.Secretary and Treasurer, Samuel r laxmnn, 
92 Vice Street, Hartford.DAYTON, OHIO 
President), F. W. Heclcert, 341 Kenilworth 
Avenue.
DETROIT
President, W. Ray William, care WoBtlnghbuiie Electric & Manufacturing Company 
1-685 Sixth Street.Secretary and Treasurer, C. L. Boyle, J909 
Balfour Road.ERIE
Prenident, Ray ICellor, care Hammermill 
Iaiier Company.Secretary and Treasurer, R. C. Warren, care 
The Warren Company.
GOLDEN fcATE 
Prenident, G. M. Whlsier, 1778 AFIF Street,
SecretaryVand Treaaurer, Mra. lt. L. Wharton, 
Box 1.47, Route 1, Richmond, Calif. 
IIAItHISBURG 
Preaident, John G. Todd, 20YOM North Queen 
Street, Lancanter.
Vloe President, Ilonry Y. Shaub, 20% North 
Quren Street, Lancaster.Secretary, Frank Jllghberger, care State De
partment of Public Instruction, Harrisburg, 
HUNTINGTON, W. VA.
Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second Street, 
East'.
JOHNSTOWN 
Secretory, John W. Fritz, 2ir> John Streot.
KOPPERS, PITTSBURGH
President, D. .1. Mc.Farlln, care Koppers Coniitructlon Company, Union Trust Building, 
Vic.* President, II. II. Hook.
Secretary, W. II. Neely.Treaaurer, A., G. Wagner, togothor with J. G. 
Hhv. C. 11. Collins, II. E. Warren,' composing 
u llquid of Governors.
MONONGAIIELA VALLEY 
Prenident, Conrad A. Stone, Box 1191, OharUirol, Pa.Vice President, Mrs. Allee Nixon Conn, <are Kind Frederick Apartment, Fourth and Dock 
Streeta, Steubenville, Ohio.
Secretary and Treasurer, A. II. LowututtOi;. 
Lock No. 4. Pa.
MILWAUKEE 
)*i-.ul(lent, A. II. Toutouon, 7!17 Fortieth ,Streot. 
.Seeretary and Treasurer, N. L. Dittmer, B40 
Second Avenue, Wauwatoxo.
NEW YORK 
Secretary and Treasurer, Mryon Kltalf, 4(109 Avenue M, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Publicity Manager. I1'. 1. Smith, care II. L. 
Doherty Company, 0 Wall Street. 
NORFOLK
President, T. D. jHbiglbbon, HU Holt Streot. 
NORTHERN NEW JERSEYPresident. G. W, Glhhs, care Ingeraoll-Rand 
Company, It Broadway, Now York City. 
Vice Prenldont, E. W. Van Der Wolle, 7!1 Grove 
Street, Montclair, N. .1.Troanurer, F. K. Belgier, 29G Union Avenue, 
Bellovllle, N\Secretary, J. F. Smaney, 211 Locuat Street, 
Roselle Park, N. J.
PHILADELPHIA 
Prenident, M. D. Scott, 546 Kathmere Rond, 
Brookline, Upper Darby, Pa.Secretary and Treasurer, T. S. Repplier, care 
Edwnrdn, Ewing & Jones, North American 
Building, Philadelphia.
Chairman Entertainment and Membership 
Committee, L. E. Exline, 1520 Real Estate 
Trust Building.
PITTSBURGH 
Prenident, G. Albert Wagner, care The Kopyo.ru Company.
Vice President, I,. H. Lee, 20G Stanwix Street. 
.Secretary-TreaBurer, Buddy Overend, Carnegie 
.Tech.
SCHENECTADY 
JP real dent M. Snmpson, 45 Bedford Street.'Vice President, J. L. Knight, care Genera 
Electric Company. iSeoretary and Treasurer, Raymond Gill, 206 
nion Street.
ST. LOUIS
Acting Secretary, M. A. Zellar, enre of Ham
ilton Company, Inc., 2127 Pine Street.1 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
President, John F. Meredith, G907 West Fifth 
Street, Los Angeles.
Vice President, Robert Finkelhor, 200 North 
Oakhurut Drive, Beverly Hills.
Secretary, Betty Finkelhor, 200 North Oakliurnt. Drive, Beverly Hills.
Execu^ve Committee, James H. Knapp, 244 
North' Wetherly Drive. Doverly Ilills.
G. It. Brandln, 902 Transportation Building, 
Lon Angeles.
TULSA
Prenident, H. G. Texter, care Standard Sonmlenn Tuba Company, 710 Mid Continont 
Building.
Vice Prenldont, Arthur J. Kerr, 11517 South Quaker Avenue.
Secretary and Treaaurer, II; W. Pontornian, 
1)02 Mayo Building.WASHINGTON, D. C.
Prenldont, J. R. Arnold, 24 Second Street, 
N. W.
Vice President, Harriet Staples, 3011 S Street, 
N. W.
Secretary and Treaaurer, A. M. Pringle, 627 
.Lexington Place, N. E.
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
Prenident, R. A. Bookmeyor, 1515 Elm Street. 
Vice President, Fred C. Beede, 1324 Hillman  Street.
Secretary and Treasurer, George K. O'Connor, 
2 New York Avenue.
Alumni Invited To 
Attend Concrete Meet
Sessions on March 19, 21, and 
22 on Design and Control 
of Concrete
p^InON pHkL JOf^mOC ^f ON
CkmAC pOOo ROU'IUI' JOkLUOC?
Perhaps some of our alumni en
gaged in construction work will be in
terested in the short course to be held 
at Carnegie Tech next week In con
nection witli the Portland Cement 
Company.
Arrangements' iiave been made by 
this company co-operating with Car
negie to hold a third Bhort course in 
the design and control of concrete mix
ture*. The course will consist of 
three sessions, Monday, Wednesday 
and Thursday evenings, March 19, 21 
Did 22. Sessions will be held in the 
Carnegie Union, and will begin 
promptly at 7:30 p. m., continuing for 
about three hours each evening. The 
lectures and demonstrations will be in 
charge of J. VV. Kelly of the Research 
Laboratory of the Portland Cement 
Association. Mr. Kelly is well known 
to many Pittsburgh engineers, having 
conducted the short courses given in 
1920 and 1927 at Carnegie.
The course is intended not only to 
give a clearer understanding of the 
factors which affect the strength and 
quality of concrete, but also to provide 
practical exercises in the actual de
sign and proportioning of concrete 
mixtures to meet given strength spec
ifications. It is purely educational, 
having as its aim the presentation of 
scientific methods of proportioning 
concrete mixes. No attempt will be 
made in the limited times available 
to prescribe construction methods nor 
to design reinforced concrete struc
tures.
A cordial invitation is extended to 
engineers^ engineering students, archi
tects, contractors, material dealers, 
inspectors and others interested in 
better concrete in Pittsburgh and vi
cinity. While no charge is made it is 
requested that those intending to at
tend the first session notify Professor 
F M. McCullough, Carnegie Tech, by 
letter or telephone, in order that am
ple accommodations may be arranged.
The recent successes of a promi
nent Margaret Morrison alumnae who 
succeeds remarkably well in combin
ing brains and beauty has brought 
forth the interesting question, What 
becomes of our Campus Week Queens 
after, leaving Carnegie? The ques
tion offers decided possibilities for 
original research and the following ar
ticle is the first of a series the ex
press purpose of which will be to 
delve into the private life of our for
mer, sovereigns and thereby solve the 
above question.
Our first story concerns Josephine 
Cibson, the victim of our first research, j 
.To, as many of you more recent alum
nae may remember, was Campus 
Queeir in 1924, during our fourth 
Campus Week. Jos honor was well 
deserved, as she was one of the most. 
nctive girls on the Campus that year. I 
Among lier many activities may be ; 
listed Chairman of Plebe Regulations, 
Vice Pnesident of the Junior Class, : 
President of the Household Economics 
Club, and a member of the Senior 
Ball Committee.
But Jos activity didnt cease when 
she left school. For several summers 
she was active as dietician in summer 
camps. She also gave evening 
classes in cookery at the First Pres
byterian Church in Pittsburgh, and 
was also associated with the Y. W. 
C. A. Cafeteria as dietician. /
Josephine is now director of Home 
Economics at the H. J. Heinz Com
pany, nationally known food product 
manufacturers. Recently she was LH 
judge in a waffle baking contest held 
by the Philadelphia Company in Pitts
burgh. This was a contest held in 
connection with National Waffle 
Month.
But her activities did not keep her 
away from school, even after gradua
tion. She has continued to be deeply 
interested in school affairs, taking an 
active part in the bridge and tea held 
recently at the Hotel S'chenley by the 
Margaret Morrison Alumnae Associa
tion and being listed also as a pa
troness for the production of Oh 
Kay, given several weeks ago by the 
Women's organizations as a benefit 
for the Women's Scholarship Fund.
Teams to be Entertained 
By Varsity Clan April 16
On April 16, the Varsity Clan will 
resume its social activities with a 
theater party at the Pitt Theater.\ 
After the'very successful Varsity Clan : 
Day celebration, the members are! 
looking forwrard to another pleasant 
gathering.
The Clan will have many guests on 
this evening. First of all will be tli2 
members of the football, basketball, j 
track, and other major sport, teams. 
The Varsity Clan entertains the 
various teams each year in some way, 
and has chosen the theater party this 
year. In addition several other fea
tures are planned for the evening! in 
addition to the play, which also i 
promises to be a good one. Howrever, 
the details must he left for a future 
date.
Tickets for undergraduates will be1 
on sale in about ten days, and it is . 
expected that April 16 will witness a | 
typical Carnegie Tech gathering at j 
the Pitt. Watch the. Tartan for 
further details.
Dr. Baker Delivers Series 
Of Four Lectures in Paris
WILL HOLD ANNUAL
PLEBE PROMENADE
TUESDAY, APRIL 10
(Continued From Page One.) 
band composed of all Freshmen who 
play musical instruments will lead the 
parade from Langley Lab around the 
Campus so as to give every one an 
opportunity to witness the new found 
glory of the Class of '31.
Previous Plebe Proms have dis
closed a wealth of originality and 
humor in the costumes displayed by 
th6 Frosh. The proverbial ghost, 
skeleton, headless man, and ballet 
girls, are present in great numbers 
while certain misled Plebes give vent 
to satirical comments upon any sub
ject which seems most objectionable 
at the time.
Since the choice of the emancipa
tors is based upon the applause given 
the candidates by the audience, it is
to every Plebe's advantage to have a 
costume that, will appeal to the as
sembled group. It is an excellent idea 
to keep this in mind when planning a 
costume as it is quite worthwhile to 
be freed from the heel of the oppress
ing Sophomores three Aveeks before 
the majority of their unfortunate 
classmates.
FOURTH ANNUAL INSTITUTE
IN PLUMBING MARCH 21 TO 23
(Contini ed From Page One.)
! along with other officials from Carj negie Tech, in arranging the sessions 
by J. H. Lutz, Jr., president of the 
j Pennsylvania State Association of 
Master Plumbers. Attendance at the 
I institute is expected to be about 250 
to 300.
EMPLOYMENT BUREAU
WILL AID SENIORS IN
SECURING INTERVIEWS
fCo-itinned From Page One.) 
only sell yourself, but Carnegie Tech as well.
The following letter from Mr. J. C. 
Albright, personnel representative of 
the Bailey Meter Company of Cleve
land, Ohio, is typical of the letters that 
the Bureau of Recommendations re
ceives from many of the companies 
with which it maintains a constant 
correspondence.
BAILEY METER COMPANY 
1050 Ivanhoe Road, Cleveland. Ohio.
March 3, 1928.
Mr. John D. Beatty,
Carnegie' Institute of Technology, 
Schenley Park,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dear Mr. Beatty-:
1 wish to thank you for the kind at
tention and consideration given me on 
the occasion ol my recent visit to your 
institution to Intorvlew prospective 
employes.
Apropos of our talk regarding the 
typo of men required by our company, 
wo can use any type of engineer inas
much as our training course furnishes 
the necessary specialized education. 
Therefore, all that is essential is that 
a man have a thorough grounding in 
the fundamentals of engineering. 
Since the work is more mechanical 
engineering than any other type* how
ever, we have normally chosen men 
only troni the mechanical engineering 
colleges. In recent years we have 
noted a greatly increased demand for 
mechanical engineers coupled with 
the reduction in number of men re
ceiving degrees in mechanical engi
neering. There also seems to be in 
many cases a reduction in average 
quality of the men taking mechanical 
engineering as well as this -reduction 
in numbers.
Why cannot more of the better men 
be induced to take mechanical engi
neering? It would seem the possibil
ities for the mechanical engineer are 
much greater than for. the electrical 
or civil engineer for instance, as all 
manufacturing organizations have me
chanical problems, but many {lo not 
also have civil or electrical engineer
ing problems.
Yours very truly,
BAILEY METER COMPANY. 
(Signed) J. C. Albright, 
Director of Education.
Salem, Ore.(IP)The period from 
Feb. 4 to 18 has been set aside as an 
open season for the co-eds at Williamette college to exercise their 
rights amder the Leap Year season. 
TI\e action was officially taken by the 
students.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Lecture Course on Design 
In Concrete, March 19-22
The Portland Cement Association 
in co-operation writh the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, will hold a 
third annual short course in the de
sign and control of concrete mixtures, 
on March 19, 21 and 22 in the Car
negie Union. The lectures and 
demonstrations will be in charge of 
J. W. Kelly of the research labora
tories' of the Portland Cement Asso
ciation, beginning each, evening dur
ing the course at 7:30.
For the past two years, these short 
courses have been held here with 
much success. J. M. Daniels of the 
Carnegie staff is co-operating with the 
movement,, conducting various tests 
in the materials in the Testing Lab
oratory. From the surrounding terri
tory, those engineers who find it con
venient to attend the lectures and 
tests, find the course very valuable. 
The lectures and results of, the tests
In Paris .last 'Saturday, Dr. Thomas 
S. Baker, president of Carnegie Tech 
began his series of four lectures on 
What the United States Is Thinking 
About, under the auspices of the Car
negie Endowment for International 
Peace. The lectures are being deliv
ered, in French, at the building of the 
Endowment on Boulevard Saint Ger
main.
The subject of Saturdays address 
was "Americathe Land of Realism. 
Yesterday Dr. Baker spoke on "The 
American Mind.* Today his subject 
is "Mechanization and Standardiza
tion, and on Wednesday, he will dis
cuss The Voice of the People.
Following me delivery of his lec
tures. President Baker plans to go im
mediately to London and later to sev
eral, other European capitals in the 
interests of the Second International 
Conference on Bituminous Coal wdiich 
w-ill be held at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology in next November. It is 
understood at. the local institution 
that Dr. Baker has already received 
the acceptances of several distin
guished European scientists and fuel 
technologists to address the coming 
coal conference.
A recent letter from Dr. Baker 
stated that his voyage to Europe on 
the Steamship Berengia was very 
pleasant. The first part of the trip 
was most delightful. Then came two 
days when the vessel showed her high 
ability as a roller. Sunshiny days 
blessed the remainder of the voyage. 
In Paris, he writes, the weather was 
so mild that people were sitting be
fore the cafes along the boulevards.
are generally accepted as authentical 
on concrete construction. Those in 
charge of preparations are looking for
ward to a very successful course this 
year.
Syracuse, N. Y.(IP)A new type 
literary .magazine to contain only ma
terial not of a humorous nature,, has 
been instituted at Syracuse Univer
sity. The magazine will sell at ten 
cents.
pOd pLe MWLD* JUd A MWLD
CWGrREddE dHrd DrdWDhWED!
 reason enough youll find for CHESTERFIELDS immense popularity
E STATE it as our honest belief that 
the tobaccos used in Chesterfield cigarettes 
are of finer quality and hence of better taste 
than in any other cigarette at the price.
SC..U11 2: 30UCCP VFIEXXF 5FH
Chesterfield
 I GEUES
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
UHUHHYIt Pays to Be Honest.By FRANK REIM Y
when WE Finish - G 
, BDSRH Tfev-L HlN/\ 98UH 
AA&MWAS lERP\e.LE 
Al^D "WEN WAUVi. ooT 
WfTvioviT

---------------------------------------------------

TU ESDAY, MARCH 13, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREfc
N^ MUIUmm JklkIfO ROqUNOmOIL 
NO DERVWCE CHrRGE
Your Home Bank
PULLCbN'HhUfLH kIn OkolkIn
R. K. Mellon, President
W. S. Phillips, Cashier 
Thomas II. McCandless, Assistant Cashier
CkAULklt $300t000.00 DNAlCt $300t000.00
OAe largest selling
DAONlkLUvO UI qklULit 
LHO w^Nln-fkm^C
A. W. Dann Speaks 
To Engineering Class
HOME CONCERT 
DANCE IN UNION
Sand and Gravel is Topic of Committee is Hard at Work
Lecture to Civil 
Department
to Make Annual Affair 
Pleasing
NEW STUDENT PUBLICA
TION 10 APPEAR APR.
Contributions Are Solicited; Posi
tions on Business Staff 
Still Open
Mr. A. W. Dann, vice president and ! The Home Concert Dance in tlie 
General Manager of the Keystone j Union on March 23, following the anSand and Supply Company of Pitts-' nual home concert presented by the 
burgh gave a very interesting lecture j Men s and \\ omen s Glee Clubs inCarnegie Music Hall, promises to be 
j an excellent dance. Arrangements 
have been made to hold the dance
at the.last Civil Seminar class held !
Wednesday, March 77. The topic 
which Mr. Dann discussed was The j from nine to one, instead of from ten 
Production and Use of Sand and I to one as was announced last week. 
Gravel. The speaker has had much 1 
experience in .this field and conseThus far the committee has not 
been'able to decide upon an orches
tra for the occasion, but several 
quently was quite capable of putting j good outside orchestras are under 
this discussion across successfully to j consideration. Every effort is being
. At the weekly meeting of the "Car| negie Quarterly," the new literary 
Magazine, lield Wednesday, March 
7, in Room 106 of Arts School, busi
ness matters were discussed and sev* 
eral points of particular interest were 
decided upon.
It had been originally hoped that it 
would be possible to avoid having adj the student body and it is hoped they 
vertising in the magazine but due to j will continue to support the new profinancial conditions at present it hasiject. While Carnegie Tech is a teclithe future civil engineers.
Mr. Dann first discussed the conI put forth to make the dance a success 
j in every way possible. The Union
crete aggregate business and stressed ! "riH t>e garbed in a few simple decoramainly that fact that it is still very | tions, sufficient to blend the subdued 
young. It was started by two men in : walls and ceiling with the atmosOhio about 25 years ago. Their tool; 
consisted chiefly of a shovel and
phere of gaiety and enthusiasm of the 
| dance. A large crowd is expected as
wheelbarrow. From this crude beginj there will be no other attractions on 
ning it has developed into a business j the campus that evening. This is the 
involving the securing and disposing I ne event on the Glee Clubs calenof about 300,000,000 tons annually, j dar to which t he student is asked to 
This business is surpassed only by the j co-operate and it is hoped that there 
coal industry in tonnage of product | will be a ready response. The price
shipped by rail.j for the dance is $1.25 the usual price
Although this industry had quite an ! for a campus dance but an unusual 
early beginning in Pittsburgh, it has | ne for the Home Concert Dance.
Those students who wish to attend 
the concert before the dance, shouldseen its greatest development in thelast few years. Aggregate is now secured from local rivers 
dredge from a maximum
by ladder I recall that the concert lasts until 10 
depth of! o'clock and that there will be suffiabout 55 feet below the surface of cient time to attend the dance after 
the water. The speaker then showed \ the concert.
The concert is to be the closing 
event of the season for the two clubs, 
and an excellent program is being ar
ranged. Mr. Walter Pcyntz, student 
director, will conduct the Mens Club 
and Mi*. A1 Johnson, the Womens 
Club.
Tickets for the concert may now 
be secured from Mr. Walter Scott, 
manager of the Mens Club or from 
any member of either club. For those 
who wish to secure their tickets by 
mail, an order blank has been placed 
on the Alumni page of this issue. 
Prices of admission are as follows: 
Orchestra, $1.25; first balcony, 75 
cents and second balcony, 50 cents.
how this presents a great engineering 
problem since the dredge consists of 
a huge chain on which are fastened 
large bucket^ and which must work 
under water. ' The main difficulty is 
successful lubrication. As yet this 
has not been completely solved and 
there is still a great loss fjom this 
source.
As the sand comes from the river 
it is washed and graded into two 
sizes. It is then taken to land where 
it is again washed and at the same, 
process of screening divided into four 
sizes of aggregate.
Mr. Dann then discussed the 
sources of power used on the barges 
for the propelling of the dredging ma
chinery. Those types discussed were, 
steam throughout, steam electric, in 
which the dynamos are turned by 
steam, and the Diesel electric in 
which the dynamos are turned by a 
Diesel, engine. The . principal types 
of motive power used on the vessels 
are Diesel and Stearn. Mr. Dann ex
plained how the Diesel engine was 
coming into use more and more in 
this field and how in the future he 
thought there were possibilities of 
using this engine entirely in place of 
the steam engine.
In discussing .the uses of aggregate 
the speaker told how only three dis
tinct sizes were in use ten years ago 
and that now as many as tep differ
third week in March. Students hav
ing anything to contribute are urged 
I to do so immediately since the maga\ zine has now received the approval 
j of Student Council.and will be recog
nized as a major activity as soon as 
it. is placed on a working basis. Both 
the Pi Delta Epsilon and Alpha Chi 
Alpha, honorary journalistic fraternij ties, are behind the magazine and 
j work and it will undoubtedly be rec
ognized by them. Social fraternities 
having promising pledges are urged to 
get them to report either as literary 
conrtibutors or for positions on the 
advertising and circulation staff, both 
of which are still incomplete.
So far a great deal of interest and 
enthusiasm has been manifested by
been announced there will be a lim
ited amount in the first issiie. If the 
student body supports the magazine 
upon its initial appearance it is hoped 
that advertising will be eventually 
eliminated from the magazine.
The publisher who will get the con
tract for the Quarterly will be definite
ly decided upon this week. Contri
butions so far have been coming in 
slowly. All articles must reach the 
hands of the editor, Walter Rodgers, 
or one of the associate editors, by the
JUILLIARD FUND
AIDS STUDENTS
AND COMPOSER
German Opera Tuition for 15Deems 
Taylor Gets $5,000 for Work
New York.  Fifteen students will 
be sent abroad to study grand opera 
through arrangements just com
pleted by the Juilliard Foundation. 
At the same time, the Foundation an
nounced a gift of $5,000 to Deems Tay
lor, composer of The Kings Hench
man, in recognition of his contribu
tions to music as a composer, critic, 
lecturer and editor.
The arrangement for the scholarent sizes ol aggregate are in practical j ships was ma(ie wjth tlie Dresden 
use. The greatly varied uses of ce-1 0pera Company through its director, 
ment has probably been most infiuenj Fritz Busch. The students will be
tial in causing this great change.
Mr. Dann then told of the research j 
being done in this field and comment| 
ed vefcy highly on the work beipg done i 
by the Portland Cement Company at! 
the present time and what they have 
already accomplished. Although much
placed under Herr Busch's instruc
tion. Their traveling and study ex
penses, including fees for piano les
sons and courses in German, will be 
paid. It is hoped that the students 
will pay their own living expenses, 
Foundation officials saidhas been accomplished there still reThe students will be given the op. mains much to be done both in the ; portunity to appear in minor roles in 
producing of better aggregates and operatic productions and eventually
the conservation of the present sup
ply because when a' river has once 
been dredged for its aggregate it can
not be worked again in the same 
place,
in auditions before critics and man! agers in Germany, according to the 
j present program.
According to Ernest Hutcheson, 
dean of Julliard Graduate School Df
Mr. Dann having witnessed several Music, the exact cost of the scholaraggregate producing plants in Operashi has not been determined. It is
 tion in England explained how and : estijnated, however, that the expense 
why he thought production in the U. ! of the first year wjn approximate 
S. was better although probably not j ^300,000. Leading conservatories and 
quite so conservative. All the producprivate teachers have been invited to 
tion there is carried on by the gov1 recommend candidates who will be exernment and aggregate is taken only amine(1 eav]y jn March by a group of
from the places wehere the river 
needs dredging. This, of course, pro
duces an inferior grade of aggregate.
satisfied with the fineness, stiffness 
or ink fiow of his fountain pen should 
at earliest opportunity go to the 
Jenkins Arcade and have the Singer 
Penn & Gift Shop "fit his hand, at
moderate
Carnegie
charge.
Tartan."
This aggregate already inferior to the j firgt operai with Edna St. Vincent 
American product is then put on the | jyjmayf. intends to devote more time 
market after a single screening and ! t(j compositi0n as the result of the 
not washing. From this we see that! grantt he said He is now at work on 
U. S. is the leading country in an; libretto and score of his second 
other field. 1 | opera The market for operatic comi position in the United -States is very 
Every student who is not entirely, jjmited, lie declared, and composers 
ptiffnpcc ^ ^  receive the same financial re
wards as those won by successful 
painters, authors and dramatists. 
Following close on the heels of the 
. | announcement by the Juilliard FounP se say The , dation> Jolin T. Adams, president of 
| the Wolfson Musical Bureau, Inc., has 
just started for Europe to complete 
tentative arrangements with 20 Euro
pean houses to provide routine stage 
experience for finished American stu
dents, who he intends shall be select
ed by' a committee of eminent musi
cians, headed by Reinald Werrenratli.
Mr. Adams said he intends to re
turn to the United States within two 
m/jnths, hold auditions for young 
American students in June, choose 
those who are fitted to have the Eu
ropean training and take them abroad 
next October.
For the past three years I have 
been in communication with opera 
houses in France, Italy, Spain, Hol
land, Belgium and a few in Germany 
regarding a plan to give American 
students actual experience in oper
atic roles and diction at about onethird of the expense they incur when 
they go independently, he said.-- 
Christian Science Monitor.
IjLULVll-y
in fie wovld
blkfo
At alldealers
\ dENUDVpencils
'UvO bOCL CONvUfO kIn 
l^I'OCL wOkN.
American Pencil Co., 215 Fifth Ave.,N.Y.
Makers of UNIQUE Thin Lead 
Colored Pcncils in 12 colors$1-00 per doz.
$1.001.20
rlwkiC dHO 
DkmO CkiC 
PUAO-Dm^oON
Charleston, S. C.February 10,1927
Larus & Bro. Co.,Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:
Ive done a lot of pipe smoking. Theres hardly a brand or a blend that I havent tried out at some time or other.
But speaking of smoking tobacco 
that brings real enjoyment, and never changes, I want to say that there is just one tobacco that gives me real 
enjoyment in my pipeEdgeworth.I have used Edgeworth Ready Rubbed and Plug Slice for over five years, in all climates and under all conditions, and I find it always the same. It is always mellow and moist, and its genuine flavor lasts. There is no bite or parch in Edgeworth, and the quality, whether you buy it in smallor large quantities, is always perfect.
Thanks to the manufacturers for their wonderful product, and I hope 
that Edgeworth can always be obtainable by the undersigned.
Guy B. Beatty
En'Ow^NLH
Extra High Grade
Dm^oUI' d^bkff^
nical school and every one is interest
ed in a definite line of work, a need 
for a purely academic outlet has long 
been felt. The Puppet and the Tartan 
have n\ade great strides during the 
last few years which shows that there 
is literary talent and interest among 
its student body. The Carnegie Quar
terly is not a competitor of either of 
these long established publications 
but is ready to take its place as a 
separate entity.
The Quarterly as previously an
nounced will contain sixty or sixty-five 
pages of material. There will be a 
news section and sections of techni
cal articles, interest stories, criticisms 
of books and plays, book reviews and 
short stories. The first edition will 
I appear in April.
DR. BARBOUR SPEAKS FOR
Y. W. C. A. DISCUSSION DINNER
BRITISH SCHOOL BOYS
TOUR SOUTH AFRICA
smoking in the chapter houses and in 
some cases provide expulsion as a 
penalty. The resolution adopted will 
Cape Town.Forty-three English I t0 alnmmte its well as underpublic school boys have arrived ... 
South Africa for a complete tour of 
the country, with four officers in 
charge. The itinerary includes: Oudtslioorn, Port Elizabeth, Graliamstown, 
Bloemfontein, Natal, the Transvaal, 
Bulawayo; Victoria Falls and Salis
bury. /
Nearly all the boys have left school. 
The South African tour comes be
tween their school and university ca
reers, and may possibly result in 
Some of them settling in South Africa. 
The idea behind the scheme, however, 
is that English public school boys 
schould know the British empire and 
spread the knowledge they have 
gained when they return to England.
COLLEGE SORORITIES
CONDEMN SMOKING
College sororities were placed on 
record as condemning the practice of 
smoking by girls either in sorority 
houses or on college campuses in a 
resolution adopted by the National 
Pauliellenic Congress meeting in Bos
ton. Discussion of the resolution be
fore the vote disclosed that a number 
of sororities have strict rules against
graduate members of the orders.
The congress elected Miss Irma 
Tapp of Kinston, N. C., representative 
of Alpha Delta Pi sorority, as presi
dent, and Miss Rene S. Smith, Delta 
Zeta of Long Beach, Calif., as secre
tary.
Professor Ely made an address on 
Engineering as a Profession, at 
Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass., on 
March 9, and will speak at Phillips 
Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. M., 
March 23.
Schenley 1125.
DLkInkNn ClOkIUI'- 
DiOUI' C^.t WIf.
Standard Service Satisfies. 
EXPERTS ON LADIES 
GARMENTS 
Office and Cleaning Plant: 
702 REBECCA AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG
Branch Office 
4525 FORBES STREET 
OAKLAND
The Discussion Dinner held by the 
Y. W. C. A. last Tuesday in the Wom
ens Faculty Room of Margaret Morri
son was attended by fifty women stu* 
dents from Arts School and Margaret 
-Morrison. After a most delicious din
ner Dr. Barbour wlio has recently re
turned from a course of studies pur
sued in the University of Edinburg 
spoke on Brotherhood.
The Intercollegiate Y dinner will 
be held on March 20, when represen
tatives from Pitt, P. C. W. and Carne
gie will meet in one body. Every girl 
on the Carnegie Campus is invited to 
attend the dinner. The price per 
plate has been set at $1.00. Anyone 
interested in going to the banquet 
may secure tickets from any member 
on t:he.Y cabinet.
The next meeting of the Y will 
take the form of Chapel exercises on 
Tuesday, March 27, in the Little The
ater. This is the one chapei exercise 
of the year which the women of the 
campus plan. The Girls Glee Club 
will sing at this service.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
prominent artists as a committee of 
selection.
Mr. Taylor, who collaborated in his
H. I. POWELL
Soon after I learned that the 
Kresge Company was opening in 
number of new stores and offered 
nn exceptional opportunity .to 
young men with a college educa
tion, 1 applied and started in the 
stockroom at Columbus, Ohio, in 
March, 1920. After experience in 
four different cities, I was made a 
manager in January, 1923. In Janu
ary, 1927, after having managed 
stores in Allentown nnd Scranton, 
Penna., I was given charge of our 
Columbus Dollar Store, returning 
in less than seven years as manager 
to the store in which I had started 
6t $25 per week.
Before I took up the Kresge work 
1 had carefully analyzed the 
opportunities in many different 
lines. I had been graduated from 
tne University of Pennsylvania 
Law School and had been admit
ted to the practice of law in the 
' States of Pennsylvania and Ohio. 
1 had had numerous opportunities 
of a less strenuous character, and 
carrying at the start greater com
pensation However, niter my 
eight years with the Kresge Com
pany, I can be most enthusiastic. 
And I think the Kresge Company, 
with its expansion program, holds 
a wonderful future for young men 
who arc able to adapt themselves 
to the requirements of the Kresge 
business.
H. I. POWELL
THE m^CL UmA^NLkIL AN^blOm LHkL f^IfN^ILC COIU^NC nNUI' 
LHOUN lkCL COmOCLON UI CfH^^l UC fH^^CUI' LHO j^b LHkL wUll 
bO'UI wHOI fkmAC nkiC kNO ^vON. d^ mkoO LHO NU'HL CLkNL UI LHO 
"bCUIOCC w^Nln UC LHO kmbULU^I ^f OvONi f^llO'O mkI. rIn m^CL 
mOI wULH f^NOCU'HL kIn vUCU^I NOklUzO LHkL UL n^OC I^L mkLLON C^ 
mfH wHONO LHOi CLkNL ^N wHkL LHOi n^t kC l^I' kC LHONO UC k '^^n 
fHkIfO f^N fLNO knvkIfOmOIL.
d^ f^llO'O mOI ^f LHkL LiAO LHO D. D. KNOC'O C^mAkIi ^ffONC 
OxkfLli LHkL C^NL ^f kI ^AA^NLIULi. pO kNO AUfoUI' f^llO'O LNkUIOn 
mOI f^N ^N fLNO CL^NO mkIk'ONC. dHOCO mOI bO'UI kL LHO b^LL^m 
kIn kNO LH^N^'Hli CfH^^lOn UI KNOC'O mOLH^nC ^f CL^NO ^AONkLU^I. 
dHOi kNO 'UvOI OxAONUOIfO UI OvONi nOAkNLmOIL ^f ^N NkAUnli 
OxAkInUI' bCUIOCCt kIn wHOI LHOUN LNkUIUI' UC f^mAlOLOnt LHOi 
kNO AlkfOn UI fHkN'O ^f ^N CL^NOCnU'IUfUOn A^CULU^IC LHkL fkNNi 
UIf^mOC kb^vO LHO kvONk'O.
Wf i^ LHUIo LHkL i^ fkI fUll ^N NOqUNOmOILC kIn kNO wUllUI' L^ 
w^No HkNn kIn CLni ^N bCUIOCCt wNULO L^ ^N AONC^IIOl nOAkNL
mOIL. r 'NknkLO ^f i^N ^wI f^llf'O wH^ HkC f^In HUC fLNO 
UI ^N ^N'kIUzkLU^I wUll bO COIL L^ COO i^.
PERSONNEL DEPT. 4
D D KREDGE CO
5-10-25c. STORES < - / 25c. to $1.00 STORES 
KRESGE DETROIT BUILDING

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. MARCH 13, 1928
Operelinq
.bAYand NIGHT tHALF TONES I  ZINC ETCHING  ; I LLUSTIJATI N G R OESICNINC t. COMMtrJCIAL > . , PHOTOCr>APHVHYUNUX1NF1\LUP|
we oiFer the only steamers in, 
: the world 'de,voted ei>tireiy 
to TOtJRlS'X passengers, 
M'ifinSkah dct ,-Min n eso tjx, 
d^ewniajiy 
No otlie.r clas. carried. You 
have the ifreedom of all 
/decks* Np-class distinctions..
COMPETITIVE DRILL DATE 
SET FOR R.O.T.C. STUDENTS
BULLETIN ON MINE TIMBER
TO BE USED AS TEXT IN ENG.Womens Glee Club to Sing 
At Oakland M. E. Church
Miss Green Returns From 
Nat. Conference of Deans! Printing NewsThe Bagpipe
A bulletin on the cost and methods 
of treating mine timber has been 
edited by L. D. Tracy of the U. S. 
Bureau of Mines and N. A. Tolch, Re
search Fellow at the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology. This bulletin 
number 33, entitled Methods and Cost 
of Treating Mine Timber, What to 
Treat and What Life to Expect is to 
be used as a reference text in the class
es of the Department of Mining and 
Metallurgy. Numerous mining en
gineers who have reviewed the bul
letin are unanimous in their opinion 
that the bulletin is the first complete 
text on mine timber preservation and 
that it will be very useful to the min
ing industry. This bulletin was print
ed under the auspices of the Caniegie 
Institute of Technology, the United 
States Bureau of Mines and the Min
ing and Metallurgical Advisory Board.
On Friday, Mar oil XG, a printing lec
ture is to be given at the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. .1. Horace 
McFarland of Harrisburg, Pa., chair
man of the committee of legislation 
for the United Typottietae of Amer
ica, will speak on the subject, "What 
Is a Printer? Mi1. McFarhihd is rec
ognized as one of the outstanding 
loaders in printing throughout the 
United States. He has served in 
many capacities in the national or
ganization of master printers. Be
sides being a very interesting speaker, 
Mr. McFarland is well known as an 
authority on printing subjects. The 
lecture Is one of the 1927-28 series of 
lectures given on printing and related 
subjects, in co-operation with Hie De
partment of Education and the United 
Typothetae of America.
[ Members of the Carnegie Tech R.
O. T. C. are looking forward to the 
Competitive Spring Drill. The Drill 
this year is scheduled for Thursday, 
May third, and all indications point 
to the most successful competition of 
tl/e schools R. O. T. C. history.
-Six companies, from A to F inclu
sive, will compete in the Drill. Mem
bers of every class in the school will 
be involved and an unusual opportu
nity for leadership will avail. The winI ning company will carry the hand
some plaid guidon which will be preI sented publicly after the competition. 
Practice for this event will begin with 
the opening of spring drill which will 
occur Thursday, March fifteenthLast year the winning company was 
Company C (Signal Corps) and in the 
previous year Company A (Engineers) 
walked off with the coveted flag. In 
last year's competition the interest, 
was stimulated by handsome sabres, 
given to the commanders of the com
panies placing first and second by the 
Reserve Officers Association of West
ern Pennsylvania. The winning com
manders were R. B. McKee and C. E. 
Peck whose companies won first and 
second places respectively.
The judges for the occasion will be
I people from. other institutions who 
are not directly connected with Car
negie so that an unbiased judgment 
is ctfrtaiii to be given. Interest for 
the event should be especially aroused 
among the Freshmen who have not 
yet experienced a competitive drill 
and who compose a great portion of 
the competing companies.
This evening, at 8:15 oclock, the 
Womens Glee Club will give a con
cert at the Oakland Methodist Episco
pal Church, located at the corner of 
Forbes and Boquet streets. The enj 
Certainment Is to be held under the ] 
auspices of Kappa Phi, an organiza
tion of Methodist Episcopal students | 
from Pitt, Carnegie and the Pennsyl; 
Vania College for Women. The price 
of the tickets, which is fifty cents 
each, brings the concert within reach 
of all who may wish to attend, and 
Htudonts who attended the similar 
con/vort given last year by the Wom
ens Glee Club at the Emory Metho
dist Episcopal Church will vouch for 
the quality of the performances. The 
program of this concert, which will 
mark the last appearance of the Girls' 
Glee Club before the homo concert, 
promises to be well worth while.
Program.
1. (a) Dear Old Tech.
(b) Whither Going Shepherd?
Hungarian Folksong ..........
................Arranged by Taylor
: (c) After Sunset....................Herbert
Glee Club.
2. Piano solo.........................Mary Long
3. (a) Plantation Love Song.. .Taylor
(b) Were You There?...................
....................... Negro Spiritual
Co) The Promised Land...............
....................... Negro Spiritual
Glee Club.
Reading ....................Mary Farbaugli
5. (a) Rest Sweet Nymphs.. .Warlock
(b) In These Delightful Groves..
....................................... Purcell
<1. Vocal Solo...................Louise Hough
7. (u) The Galway Piper.
(b) Alma Mater.
Dean Green returned, last week, j 
from the fifteenth regular meeting of 
the National Association of Deans of j 
Women which convened at the Hotel i 
Copley Plaza, In Boston, from Febru
ary 27 through March 1, in conjunc
tion with the Department of Superin
tendence of the National Education 
Association.
Dean Green, who served on the 
nomination committee which took up 
the question of the Manner of Nomi
nation and Election of Officers in 
1929, reports that the two keynotes | 
of the conference were:
1. The type of academic training 
necessary for the woman who is re
ceiving the position as Dean of Wo 
men,
2. Student needs and ways and 
means of building a constructive at
mosphere for college life, on the col
lege campus.
The first of these two subjects was 
covered by a series of four papers, 
one of which was prepared and pre
sented by Dean Helen Taft. Manning, 
daughter of the late president. The 
topic supported two questions, out
standing in importance: What pre
paration is necessary for women in
tending to become deans? and What 
are we really doing now in regard to 
this training? The point was empha
sized that a training as scientific and 
thorough as the training _ of an en
gineer is entirely essential.
Dr. Richard Cabott, of Harvard, ad
dressed the meeting on Student 
Opinion, while 'Student Publica
tions was presented by the Editor of i 
the New Student. Another very inj 
teresting address was that delivered ! 
by Dean Wells of the University of 
Indiana, in which she discussed 
Standards. She stated the stand
ards which are necessary for college 
women, commenting upon their rela
tionship with basic habits, mutual 
helpfulness, and the positive value of 
sororities as a group through which 
specialized work may be accom
plished? At the National Banquet of 
the Deans of Women, the Dean of 
Radeliffe College spoke. Dr. Hamil
ton al^O addressed the group on J 
"Conditions of Russia as she found 
them.
Very interesting joint sessions were  
held with the Panhellenic Conference, 
the members of which constitute the 
controlling body of th Womens 
Sororities of the country: and with 
the Principles of schools for girls, at 
which the relationship of the Aca
demic courses of the high school 
Senior and the college Freshman, 
were discussed.
. Dean Green attended the meeting 
where Mrs. Lindbergh was presented 
with a medal and was made an hon
orable member of the National Edu
cation Association. "Lindy spoke at 
this meeting.
Miss Greens, travels included a trip 
to Wellesley and Babsons Colleges. 
Thou the Now Student Building at 
Brown, which was built and furnished 
along true colonial lines, was inspect
ed, Teas at Simmons, Radeliffe and 
Wellesley were attended by the mem
bers of the convention.
Dean Green returned to Carnegie,; 
deeply impressed with the success of 
both the educational and social fac
tors of the Conference of the Deans of 
Women and pleasant memories of 
new friendships, Boston and the Cop* 
ley-Plaza.
The question asked this week is 
"Should Margaret Morrison have 
Sororities or not?
Dean Breed, of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College: "Prior to 1915 
there were three or four local sorori
ties in Margaret Morrison. These 
ceased to exist, and since that time 
there has been very little discussion 
of sororities among the students. I 
know of no real sorority question 
among us.
Carol Reese, Freshman in Secre
tarial Margaret Morrison: "Sororities j 
in Margaret Morrison would be desira-, 
ble on the condition that they be I 
given privileges as the mens fraternities. The sororities should be looked 
after and taken care of so that they 
would become a part of a girls college 
life, and should not be allowed to be
come a side issue as the sororities 
in the Art School. The organizations 
should also be allowed to become 
national.
Margaret L. Minor, Sophomore in 
Painting and Decorating in Arts 
School: "Personally I think Margaret 
Morrison should have sororities. In 
fact it is more of a need to them 
than the Art School because of its 
entirely heing a - girls institution. 
What do sororities do, you may ask? 
Well in the first place, closer friend
ships are formed that are everlasting 
and true; higher ideals are establish
ed. Then too, they teach manage
ment and organization. One does 
things for the sorority that -she other
wise wouldnt do for herself. Also life 
l and pep is put into the school aside 
j from daily work.
I Billie Bair, Freshman in Library 
Course at Margaret Morrison: Sorori
ties invariably cause a certain degree 
of snobbishness. Margaret Morrison 
is a very congenial and sociable 
school and Im afraid that the feeling 
of equality would be compromised if 
such, organizations were established. 
Then too, everyone cant belong. 
Some cant afford it or arent wanted. 
Enemies are made this way. Such 
things are not serious hut very un
desirable.
This semester, the senior degree 
students and the short course secondyear students of the Department of 
Printing have made a number of in
spection trips to plants relating to the 
printing industry. These trips were 
made in connection with their school 
work, under the direction of instruc
tors, Mr. Daniel E. Drummey and Mr. 
George F. Thomas of Carnegie Tech. 
The plants visited were the Robert 
Rawstliorne Engraving Company, the 
Ailing and Cory Paper Company and 
the Standard Electrotype Company. 
Observations of the various processes 
used in these plants have proved very 
profitable to the students. The de
partment is planning visits to other 
plants around Pittsburgh, the dates 
of which will be announced at a later 
date.
Prof. Payne to Help Judge 
Amateur Players' Contest
Professor B. Iden Payne of the 
Drama Department of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology lias heen chosen 
as one of the judges for the fourth an
nual amateur players contest. This 
announcement was made last week 
by Mrs. Lane Thompson,/chairman of 
the Pittsburgh Drama League commit
tee for the contest. The judges who 
will decide upon the best five plays 
produced by groups of non-profes
sional players, are: lJrof. B. Iden
Payne; George P. Baird, executive 
secretary of the Pittsburgh Art Com
mission; Mrs. Florence Fisher Parry, 
dramatic critic; Miss Martha B. 
Steckel of the Steckel School of Ex
pression in Greensburg; Miss Bertha 
Fhrer of the Byron King School of 
Oratory, and Miss Elizabeth Howe of 
Allegheny High School representing 
the Pittsburgh Drama League.
The contest will take place during 
the week beginning April 15.
Director-Breed spoke over the radio 
recently under the auspices of the 
Congress of Clubs. His subject wasCollege Education for Girls.
The faculty of, the Department or 
Printing wish to announce the publi
cation in the near future of a booklet 
entitled "College Training in Print
ing. The booklet contains a descrip
tion of the courses offered at the Car
negie Institute of Technology. The 
printing of the booklet is being car
ried on by the senior class in Print
ing Production.
Miss Jane Fales will speak on 
Period Styles' in Dress, April 9, at 
Ginibel Brothers store under the 
auspices of the Research Bureau for 
Retail Training of the University of 
Pittsburgh.r hNUOInli JkIo
Each individual customer 
of the Mellon National Bank 
is assured of a sincere inter
est in his financial affairs and 
a desire to help him with his 
problems.
Especially is this true of 
young men and women who 
open accounts here. Come in 
and let us show you how to 
take the fullest advantage of 
the opportunities offered by 
a banking connection with 
us.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERSve ycuim 
a treat
TARTAN STAFF ENTERTAINED 
AT A THEATER PARTY AT MANORMICHIGANS ATHLETIC
PLANT TO BE ENLARGEDThe members of the Tartan staff 
were entertained at a theater party 
on last Wednesday evening, March 7, 
at the Manor Theater. Thirty-one 
members assembled at the Delta Upsllon House, from which they went 
in a body to the Manor. After the 
theater the group met at the Della 
Upsllon House for luncheon, at which 
Fenton Finn, editoiy-iii-cliief of the 
Tartan, and Shelby McMillion, busi
ness manager, spoke brielly on Tar
tan policies and the successful devel
opment of the recently established 
olght-pago papor.
University of Michigan will install 
an ice plant to permit artificial ice 
skating and hockey for the students, 
according to an announcement made 
by the athletic board. Thirty-four new 
tennis? courts also will be constructed 
in the immediate future, 14 for the 
boys and 1(3 for the girls. The land 
surrounding the new stadium will be 
utilized for a practice golf course.
yiimmer
[cland
C) takes  ii thereOn the Down Side of Our WofldOrKLrNDsD 
REDdrURrNd
f^N
CrRNEGWE 
DdUDENdDG
 I Vii yoursell a prlcolemi 
(undo!new thoughts, Givo 
you meli it trlpubroud . . . and (lut 
pep to do a double job when 
you got back.3808 10 h^NbOC DLNOOL
5JU&I.50 lor two superb ocean 
trips - taken you over, brings you 
back. Speaking ol bargains , . . 
just compare this price with the 
coni ol an avcragcKtel'' vacation.Air Pockets
The next meeting is Tuesday the 
12th. We want and expect a large at
tendance, because Dewey1 Noyes, U. 
S. Air Mail pilot will be the principle 
speaker of the evening. Enough said.
In addition to specially reserved 
quarters for TOURIST Third 
Cabin passengers on such iatnous 
liners as Majestic, worlds largest 
ship, Olytn[)ic, Homeric, Belgenland, and others jBe sure and pay up your dues and 
initiation fees because we get out 
wings at the meeting. The wings are 
quite attractive, they are made oil 
gold and are about one inch long with 
a shield and monogram A. C. of C. 
I. T.
CATERINGThe Parli ament Building of New Zealand at Wellington is equipped with Otis elevators
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
----and----
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that is distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Menu if 
desired or merely Cakes, Ice Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on request.
STORE SERVICE 
CakesPastriesIce Creams 
IcesBread and Candies ideally 
made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone ordersno charge 
for city delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
Any person interested in looking 
over a whirlwind motor may see oue 
at the Franklin Sales room on Craig 
street. The motor is similar to the 
one Lindy used.
Clarence Chamberlin is expected to 
be out at McKeesport and speak to 
the Aeronautical Club there. A fine 
display of ships and motors will be at 
the Penn-McKee Hotel.
3let 8 send you literature de6C jibing our unusual values in 
economical travel.
I SfrN
pHWdE /drR LWNE
Dewey Noyes is an experienced air 
mail pilot from Bettis Field. He will 
explain a LeRhone motor for us, and 
tell of his experiences flying air mail.RED /TAR UNI ItYlAND UNI 
ATIANTIC THAM/1'OHT l,NttoMf,AM
Address No. 1 Brondwny, New York City, 
or any authorized steamship agent.
lVGkmcntiCo'
CrdERERDThe LeRhone motor Noyes will talk 
about has been on display at the en
trance of Industries Building since 
Thursday of last week.
Industries Juniors Plan 
To Hold Banquet-Smoker
Ufv 1 D 1 ^ I\
f 1* lLOGRl! D D A 
1 SERVICE 1 
CHrRrCdER p
Retailing is a profession with great promise for 
k CffOCCfl fkNOON. ON ^N'kIUzkLU^I kff^NnC mkIi 
NOkl ^AA^NLIULUOC. WILONvUOw bOLwOOI 9 r. M. kIn 
3 P. M. ^N bi kAA^UILmOIL. JNOk ^f OmAl^imOIL 
10LH fl^^N.
The Industries Juniors at a meet
ing held March 8, decided to hold a 
class banquet and smoker. This af
fair, a new event 011 the social cal
endar of the Industries Juniors will 
be held sometime after the Easter va
cation probably about April 27.
Joseph E. Formechella was appoint
ed chairman of the committee in 
charge of the affair. His assistants 
are Raymond K. Broscious^ and James 
H. Seibert.
ices in All Principal Cities of the World
KAUFMANN9/
FIFTH AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
WOMANS GUILD ACTIVE 
IN COMMUNITY WORK
Tlie Womens Guild of Carnegie, 
ever on the alert for some beneficial 
work to which it can give its support, 
is now working on three very profita
ble plans.
A recent campaign for Childrens 
story books conducted among the Car
negie girls yielded over 100 books. 
These books are to be given to the 
St Margarets Hospital for the use of 
tlie kiddies. Blanche Bray and Jean
ette Folmar have designed a very ar
tistic plate which will be placed in the 
front of each volume. This work will 
he completed around the end of the 
week and the books ready for delivery 
the first of next week. St. Margarets 
Hospital is very enthusiastic and quite 
delighted with the Guilds gift to the 
children.
The girls of the Guild have also 
decided to furnish ' some gay colored 
drapery material for the decoration of 
a room in one of the citys settlement 
houses. The children of the house 
will have the fun of making the ma
terial up into cushions, draperies and. 
table covers.
The third plan under consideration 
by the Guild is the securing of a dic
tionary and stand for the Recreation 
Hall in Margaret Morrison. The need 
for a large dictionary has long been 
felt by the girls of Margaret Morrison. 
It will be especially useful to the girls 
who go tb the Recreation Hall to 
study.
Dr. Schoen, Head of the Psychology 
Department, will speak on Work As 
a .Fine Art at the Central Branch of 
the Y. W. C. A., next Thursday night.
GEORGE rJRrMD
DEALER IN SECOND HAND 
CLOTHES
1534 COILNkl rvOIO
1
NArllMlNIIlMCeBRa
CLOTKIIES
SHOWING AT 
WILLIAM PENN 
HOTEL 
Wednesday and 
Thursday ^ 
March 14 and 15 
Representative 
Mr. Gib Collins
$34.50 and $42.50 
Tailored to your order.
Nit LUXENBERG 8 Bro.
37 Union Square, New York 
* ^ Between 16th & 11 th Sti.
Music NotesIDLkLUCLUfC C^mAUlOn DH^w rvONk'O
r'O ^f C. W. d. DLnOILC L^ bO 20^
By SARA E. WONDERS 
March 15.
Mme. Galli-Curci will return to 
Pittsburgh after an absence of more 
than two years, and will give the clos
ing May Beegle concert at Syria 
Mosque Thursday evening, March 15. 
Mme. Galli-Curci will be assisted by 
Ewald Ilaun, fiuitist, and Homer Sam
uels, pianist. The program for her 
Pittsburgh recital is as follows:
Pur Dicesti ................................... Lotti
Should He Upbraid?..................Bishop
Comme per me Sereno, from Sonnambula ............................... Bellini
La Fauvette, from ZCmir et Azor
..................,.......................... Gretry
Die Lotusblume ....................Schumann
Mandoline ...................................* Szulc
Ulie Ein'st ......................................Marx
The Gypsy and the Bird (with flute)
................................................ Benedict
Polonaise in C Minor................Chopin
"General Lavire, eccentric. .Debussy
La Plus que Lert.....................Debussy
Mr. Samuels
An Old Song...........................Buchanan
My Shadow ..............................Samuels
By the Edge of the Sea............Dobson
Qui lo voce, from Puritani (with 
flute) ....................................... Bellini
March 15.
An organ recital will be given by 
William H. Oetting at the Pittsburgh 
Musical Institute on Thursday even
ing, March 15, at S:30. The program, 
by modern composers, includes a 
Theme and Variations by M. Enrico 
Bossi, The Seven Last Words by Otto 
Mailing, Sunset by Sigfred Ivarg-Elert, 
Up the Saguenay by Alexander Rus
sell and a Toccata by Augustin Barie. 
No cards of admission are necessary 
for this recital and the public is in
vited.
The average age of the day stu
dents of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology this year is 20 and a half,, 
and the average age of the night stu
dents is ?3.2 years, according to the 
results of a compilation announced by 
Alan Bright, registrar. The range of 
ages among the 2,4S1 day students, he 
reports, is from 16 to 32. Ten of the 
students give their ages as 16. and 20 
are between 30 and 32 years old.
Au indication that the world is still 
old-fashioned in certain respects is 
shown in the report that 19 women 
students of the Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College declined to state 
their ages on their registration cards. 
Eight men students also took advan
tage of the prerogative to decline to 
tell their age.
More than half of the day students,
Chloe, The Blessed Realm, by Tomassini, and the symphonic poem, 
Juventus, by De Sabata.
Dr. Charles Heinroth will give a 
series of talks on Saturday evdnings 
during Lent at 8:15 oclock in thi 
Carnegie Music Hall. These lectures 
j will take the place of the usual Saturi day evening organ recitals, 
i The subjects and dates for the rej maining of Dr. Heinroths Lenten lec* 
j tures are as follows:
March 17Scandinavian Music. 
March 24American Folk Music. 
March 31A Great French Sym
phony (Cesar Franck).
March 16.
The Art Society of Pittsburgh pre
sents the Elschuco Trio on March 16 
at the Carnegie Music Hall. The 
members of the trio are William Kroll, 
violin; Willem Willeke, cello; Aurelio 
Giorni, piano. As artist-interpreters 
of trio music, written for violin, violincello and piano, the Elshuco Trio 
needs no introduction. To this form 
of ensemble composition, practically 
all the great symphonists and quartet 
writers have contributed memorable 
examples. This will really be a fine 
program and a large audience Is ex
pected for this recital.
March 16 and 17.
The New York Philharmonic con
sisting of 110 players, Toscanini con
ducting, will be heard Friday and Sat
urday, at the Syria Mosque. This will 
be the closing pair of concerts in the 
Pittsburgh Orchestra Association series.
The Friday night program will feat
ure Beethovens Pastoral Symphony 
No. 6, and the Saturday matinee, 
Haydns Symphony in G Major, No. 13. 
Other works on the evening program 
include Overture to The Barber of 
Seville, Ilonegers Pastorale dete 
and "Pacific 231, Debussys La Mer. 
In addition to the symphony, the mat
inee includes Ravels Dapliis and
The Yost String Quartet will give 
the last concert of the season at the 
Hotel Schenley ballroom Saturday, 
March 17.
Norman Frauenheim, pianist, will 
be the guest artist. Mr. Frauenheim 
is a native Pittsburgher and after 
early study in Pittsburgh, he spent 
several years under Sigismond Stojowski in New York and in 1925 went to 
Paris, where he studied with LazareLevy. Mr. Frauenheim will contribute 
a group of numbers to the program 
besides joining the quartet in a per
formance of Dohnanyis Piano Quin
tet. Op. 1.
The quartet will play a short group 
and present for the first time in Pitts
burgh the string quartet by Ottorino 
Respighi. The members of the Yost 
Quartet are: Gaylord Yost, first violin; 
Roy Shumaker, second violin; Carl 
Rosenberg, viola, and James Younger, 
cello.
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLDRENTEDREPAIRED
hORd PWdd dePEpRWdER CO.t WIf.
 Royal Portable DistributorsCOURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
THE BROOKFIELD HAT 
$5.00
The new shadowweiglit felt is the.ideal liat for 
students. Made with narrow band in pearl and light 
tan.
AUFHAMMER and EVANS
6100 PENN rVENUEEstablished 1872
March 18.
I The regular program for the Sunday 
evening concert in the Little Theater 
for March 18 is as follows:
1. GadeSonata for Violin and Piano, 
Op. 21 
Allegro di molto 
j Madeline Ferguson. Gertrude Reid 
! 2. BachPrelude and Fugue in A mi
nor for Organ
Ralph Crawford
3. HandelSonata, No. 4, for Violin
and Piano 
Adagio 
Allegro 
Larghetto 
Allegro
Willibald Ryshanek, Ruth Perry
4. Liza LehmannSong Cycle, In a
Persian Garden
The words are selected from the 
"Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam 
Suzanne Seiger, soprano 
Margaret Husband, contralto 
Allan Nern, teiior 
Paul Brautigam, bass.
Jean Sawhill at the piano
EkCLON DOlUvONi 
GkNkILOOn
kL DKWJO WNN
Tues. and Wed., Mar. 20-21 
Today and Tomorrow
j $29.50mum
BALTIMORE$34.50
March 26.
Mme. Schumann-IIeink will, be 
heard at Syria Mosque Monday, March 
26, under the local direction of May 
Beegle. She will be assisted by Flor
ence Hardeman, violinist, and Kath
erine Hoffman, pianist.
March 23.
The combined Mens and Women's 
Glee Clubs will have their annual Glee 
Club concert and dance on March 23. 
Further details will be published at a 
later date.
MUSIC CRITICISM
Joe B. Patterson.
If spontaneous applause recalls, and 
extra numbers are a criterion of suc
cess, Giovanni Martinelli, genial and 
affable tenor of the Metropolitan 
Opera Company, was accorded a gen
uine ovation when he appeared in re
cital last Monday night in the Young 
Mens and Womens Hebrew Associa
tion. He was recalled again and again 
and sang as encores many of the op
eratic arias.
Mr. Martinelli was in fine fettle, 
displaying his big, robust voice to 
wonderful advantage: His high tones 
are particularly clear and golden. He 
knows how to reach stirring cli
maxes. 1-Ie seldom forces his voice 
beyond its limitation as many tenors 
are prone to do. His singing of the 
aria, "O Paradiso from Meyerbeers 
LAfricaine, "Celeste Alda by Verdi 
and the famous aria from "La Tosca, 
were the high spots of the program 
and were given with convincing en
thusiasm.
Temperament, Mr. Martinelli has to 
burn, and thus he is the ideal oper
atic lion. It is perfectly natural that 
he should conceive everything he 
sings in the operatic style and so he 
often makes the .mistake that a great 
many operatic singers make when ap
pearing in recital, that of attempting 
to sing songs not suited to their par
ticular style.
1.416 out of 2.4S1, are aged between 
19 and 21. The average age of the 
freshmen students is shown to be 19.2, 
and the average age of the women 
students of the Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College is exactly 20.
The range of ages of the 3,799 night 
students enrolled this year, Mr. Bright 
reports, is between 16 and 56. Ten 
night students are shown to be be
tween 50 and 56 years old. 48 are be
tween 10 and 49 years of age, 31S are 
between 30 and, 39 years old. The 
highest average age, 24.2 years, is in 
the College of Engineering. In the Col
lege of Fine Arts, the night students 
have an average age of 23.6 years, and 
in the college of Industries, the aver
age is 22.S. Most of the night stu
dents are between IS and 24 years of 
age.
Mr. Martinelli was assisted by Ada 
Paggi. mezzo-soprano. Her voice had 
a richness in the lower register re
sembling a somewhat contralto tim
ber, and her upper voice was fre
quently shallow and without reson
ance.
The program was brought to a close 
with the duet from Verdis "II Trovatore, and the artists were recalled 
many times.
The Carnegie Glee Club presented a 
concert at the Eighth U. P. Church of 
Pittsburgh last Friday night. The 
Glee Club was well received and much 
praise was given to the club for its 
fine program. Much of the success 
of the Glee Club is due to the efforts
of the student director, Walter J.
Poyntz and Manager Wilbur A. Scott. 
The club has had a very successful 
season.
The soloists of the program were 
Paul Brautigam. Williebald Ryshanek 
and R. V. B. Jones. The program was 
as follows:
1. Song of Fellowship..................Gaul
Zut, Zut, Zut.............................Elgar
CarnegieGlee Club
2. Violin Solo ...........&------.Selected
Williebald Ryshanek
3. Three Pictures .............Rubinstein
Carnegie Glee Club
4. Vocal Solo ..........................Selected
R. V. B. Jones
5. Thou Art Repose.............Schubert
Finnish Lullaby ...............Palmgren
Carnegie Glee Club
6. Piano SoloTwo Rhapsodies... 
............................................... Brahms
Charles Sliotts
7. Mirage ........................)........... Gaul
Norsmen .................................. Grieg
Carnegie Glee Club
8. Baritone Solo ....................Selected
Paul Brautigam
9. Specialty .......................Chalk Talk
William D. McDermott
10. Dear Old Tech... ............ Cameron
Alma Mater .......................OBrien
Carnegie Glee Club
Dr. Rittman is one of the inventors 
of a new anti-knock gasoline which is 
to be marketed as "Aramax by the 
Skellv Oil Company.
THISTLE SALES STAFF TO
HOLD MEETING FRIDAY
A special meeting of the 192S This
tle sales staff will be held in the Pub
lications Office, Room .12, Industries 
Building, next Friday noon at 12:30. 
All members are requested to be pres
ent.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULT3
CLOdHED 1
Ready-made 
And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
ttvtev House
Suits *40, *45* s50 Topcoats
me
r PA GETWOHC HEERONIUTNI ~= 
RSD GIRDT OG IYT [
Oh PWddDJURGH
dHO fHkNkfLON ^f LHO CULC kIn 
L^Af^kLC LkUl^NOn bi CHkNLON H^CO s
wUlf OkNI i^N m^CL CUIfONO lUoUI'.
J
ON DISPIjAY at ___
AGEMAN & SPICKERT 1
The Mens Store of East Liberty 
^ 6121 PENN AVENUE 
Branch4729 Liberty Branch5025 Penn Avenue ~
Direct University Service
IN OUR hall, theres no question about whos 
The Head Man. Its Prince Albert. Youll 
find it in any room you wander into. Its all 
youll ever be offered. And thats hospitality, 
if you ask me. What a treat it is, too.
Fragrant and inviting. Cool as a reprimand. 
Comforting as a perfect alibi. Mellow and mild 
and long-burning, no matter how often you load 
up and light up. Youre in good company when 
you smoke P. A. The worlds most experienced 
smokers have placed this one brand first.
You can't beat 
P. A. for deep-down 
satisfaction.
-no other tobacco is like it!
0 1928, R. J. Rcy.ioldt Tobacco 
Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 13. 1928
For a most refreshing change:
^Follow your friends and 
switch to this smoother
j INTRA MURAL BRIEFS I
Although Theta XI till has the 
highest percentage In the National 
League, there Is still a chance that 
they might not come out on top. The 
Kappa Slg.s are close behind them, 
and are yet to meet them.
McGill Hall continues to hold first 
place in the Federal League. The S, 
P. E.s may offer some opposition 
later.
Theta XI annexed another victory, 
from Nu Delta Alpha last Tuesday. 
Bronson and Miller were the big guns 
for the T. X. team.
In one of the most interesting 
gamds of the season the Betas over
whelmed the strong Scobel Hall 
team. The Beta's displayed home ex
cellent team work.
The Kappa Slg.'s easily defeated the 
Sigma Nu's with a margin of nine 
points. Flanagin played a good game 
for the Clyde street men.
Alpha Tan Omega won their Arst 
game of the season, from Kappa Sig
ma Rho. Packer showed that he 
could bit the basket when lie was 
given a chance.
The S. A. E.s forfeited their game 
to Welch Hall because of their failure 
to arrive on the scene of action.
The Phi Psis were vanquished by 
Henderson Hall, the score being 2-9 to 
16. Both teams landed plenty of 
snowbirds.
Alpha Sigma Phi seems to be the 
dark horse of the week. They won two 
games, one from Delta Phi Delta and 
the other from the Pill Sig.s.
Boss Hall bad a rather hard task 
in conquering the Delta Mu.s. Francis 
and Hoke were the main offense of 
Delta Mu while Domer did some scor
ing for the dorm men.
The Phi Kappa-Pi Kappa Alpha 
game which was to be played on Mon
day evening was postponed until Sat
urday morning. Again the Connelly 
brothers were instrumental in the 
v victory of the Phi Kap.s.
The S. P. E.s easily trimmed the 
. / Delta Tau Dellas in a rather oneI sided game. Kousman, White and
i Cle were the high score men for the
j l<forbes streeters.
McGill Hall retained their reputa
tion of the past by winning another 
game from the Phi Sig.s.
The D. TVs with some little diffi
culty conquered the Beta Sigma Rho's 
last Monday. The Beta Sig.s were 
rather reluctant; to bo beaten, but 
Anally bad to admit defeat.
Lat Weeks Scores.
National League
Kappa Sigma ................... 14
Sigma Nu ............................... r>
Theta XI...................................21
Nu Delta Alpha......................12
Henderson Hall ...................
Pill Kappa Psi.......................10
Welch Hall ............................ 2
Sigma Alpha Epsilon........... 0
American League
Delta llpsllon ........................11
Beta Sigma Rho ...................10
Phi Kappa ........................12
PI Kappa Alpha ................... 8
Alpha Tau Omega..................11
Kappa Sigma Rho................. G
Beta Tlieta Pi.........................18
Scobel .....................................15
Federal League
McGill Hall ...........................33
Phi Sigma Kappa.................12
Sigma Phi Epsilon...............31
Delta Tau Delta ................. 2
Boss Hall ............................12
Delta Mu................................11
Alpha Sigma Phi.................. 9
Delta Phi Delta .................. 4-
Alpha Sigma Phi.................12
Phi Sigma Kappa............... 6
This Weeks Schedule.
Tuesday, March 13, 192S
Nu Delta Alpha vs. Welch Hall 
7:30.
Beta Theta Pi vs. Beta Sigma Rho 
-8:30.
Delta Phi Delta vs. Phi Sigma Kapua-7:30.
Delta Mu vs. Delta Tau Delta 
S : 30.
Wednesday, March 14, 102S 
Henderson Hall vs. Sigma Nu7:30. 
Phi Kappa vs. Alpha Tau Omega 
8:30.
Delta Upsilon vs. Scobell Hull 
8:30.
McGill Hall vs. Alpha Sigma Phi 
7:30. 
Thursday, March 15, 192S
Kappa Sigma vs. Phi Kappa Psi 
7:30.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs. Theta Xi 
8:30.
Kappa Sigma Rho vs. Pi Kappa
PLEBE MARKSMEN 
WILL GO TO KISKI
The Freshmen from Delaware Uni
versity have had revenge. The Uni
versity boys have tired, presumably 
of losing matches to Carnegies Plebes 
and, after dropping Ave consecutive 
meets to them in two years, came 
through to victory in a three position 
match, 12(55 to 1183. The Plebes, 
overanxious to do well standing, fell 
down below their usual form in the 
other two positions.
The high school lads from Western 
High, Washington, D. C., do consid
erable shooting also, if scores are any 
indication for they walked away with 
a victpry over the Yearlings Jn the' 
Arst two positions to the tune of 
905 to 905. Both of these matches 
were Aired during the week ending 
March 3.
The results of last weeks matches 
with the Freshmen from the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania, Georgetown 
University, and the United States 
Naval Academy, have not as yet been 
received.
Next week the Plebes. will start on 
the home stretch of the current sea
son firing against the West Virginia 
Freshmen and journeying to Kiski to 
engage in a shoulder to shoulder duel 
with the prep school boys.
Alpha7:30}
Sigma Phi Epsilon vs. Boss Hall 
8:30.
1 WNdRr-MURrL LErGUE DdrNDWNGD !
1
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Won.Lost.
!
Pet. 1
j Theta Xi ................................................... 501.000 I
f Kappa Sigma ................................................... 41.800
I Sigma Nu ...................22.500 1
j Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...................................... 23.400 I
3.400 *
! Henderson llall ................................................. 23.400 !
j Phi Kappa Psi ................................................. 13.250 I
j Welch Hall ..................................................... 14.200 j
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
Won.Lost.
I
Pet. j1 Phi Kappa ........................................................ 501.000 \
1.800 !
1 Scobell Hail ................2.G00 1
j Delta Upsilon .......................................................... 32.000 j
! Beta Sigma Rho ............................................. 23.400 \
1 Pi Kappa Alpha ;......................................... 14.200 1
I Kappa Sigma Rho ........................................ 14.200 I
! Alpha Tau Omega -----..................................... 14,00 j
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Won.Lost.

Pet. j
j McGill Hall .................rj01.000 )C Bigina Phi Epsilon ........................................ 41.800 ?
1 Boss Hall ................................................................... 32.600 1
i Alpha Sigma Phi ..................................................... 32.600 j
j Phi Sigma Kappa -----..................................... 23.400 2
I Delta Phi Delta ......................................... 23.400 !
1 Delta Tau Delta ........4.200 I
j Delta Mu ........:................................................ 05.000 j
Yellow Springs* O. (IP)Under-j college authorities in turning out all 
graduates at Antioch College here are college lights at a certain hour in the 
taking action among themselves op-1 evening, forcing the students to go to 
posing the recent regulation of the j bed or remain up in the dark.
RACE VERY CLOSE IN 
TRIANGULAR MATCH
Amid much barking of riAes and 
whizzing of tiny lead nosed projectiles, 
the Arst stage of the annual Trian
gular RiAe Match between the three 
Carnegie teams has drawn to a close. 
The scores for the Arst half of the 
meet show that the Varsity is in Arst 
place with 493, the Women second, 
with 490, and the Plebes last, with 
483. The second stage will be Ared 
off this week. In this match, unlike 
that of last year when the eight high 
scores counted, only the Arst Ave will 
be taken into consideration.
Next weeks Aringis bound to be 
interesting for, with the Scotch Las
sies but two points behind and the 
Plebes still within striking distance 
of Arst honors, the competition should 
be keen. The prize at stake, that of 
wearing the crown of victory until 
next year, not to mention the party 
which the losers must give for the 
winners, is an incentive for all the 
marksmen to do their best.
Last year the Varsity won by the 
narrow margin of three points. At the 
end of the Arst week they had a fourpoint margin but the women crept 
up slightly in the standing. Should 
the Varsity falter and the co-eds im
prove during this week it seems as 
if Carnegie'will crown a team com
posed only of women.
Trackmen Preparing 
For Difficult Season
With just a little over a month togo before the Arst track meet, both 
the varsity and freshmen trackmen) 
are settling down to real training. 
The teams are in for a good stiff 
schedule, but supplied with several 
good athletes as they are they should 
crash through for a number of vic
tories.
The season has Anally gotten or
ganized despite the adverse weatherconditions, and the men are merely 
waiting for favorable weather tostart practicing in earnest. All theold men as well as newcomers are 
urged to report immediately for prac
tice, which is held every evening at 
4:30 sha'rp.
The Arst real meet which the track
men will have will be with GroveCity against the varsity and the fresh
men up against the Union High 
School men. Both these schools have 
crack teams and will present real op
position for the Tartans.
Mr. Beatty attended the recent 
meeting of the National Educational V. 
Association and gave a talk before . 
one of the smaller groups of the asso
ciation, the National Association of 
Appointment Secretaries, on Study 
of the Relations Between College* 
Scholastic Standing, College Activi
ties, Positions and Salaries of College 
Men After Graduation.
OIO ^f LHO lOknUI' L^bkff^IUCLC 
UI PULLCbN'Ht Pk. CkiC:
"The rapid growth in the popularity of OLD 
GOLD Cigarettes among the students is remark
able. Never in my experience have I seen a new 
cigarette catch oil so quickly with the boys on 
the campus.
DKWJO WNN 
5100 p^^nlkwI rvO.
 P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
Joseph Horne Co
STORE FOR MEN
THE best way to make your cloth
ing budget go farther is to select a Horne $35.00 Suit or Topcoat. Ex
cellent fabrics... good tailoring .. . 
the newest styles . . . extraordinary 
value. Tech men should see them.
OI LHO PlkUn DfNOOI
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
GIRLSRIFLE TEAM WINS ! 
9TH VICTORY IN MATCH 
WITH SOUTH DAKOTA U.;
This time of year is considered somewhat of 'an off-season in a sporting | 
way for many colleges, but Carnegie athletes are managing to keep busy, 
with intercollegiate competition in swimming and rifle, intra-mural competi
tion in basket ball and preparations for track and tennis.*******
The varsity swimming team lost to the Homestead Library Club team last 
Saturday in the Carnegie pool. In spite of the fact that the Steel Town boys 
have a national reputation, the green Skibo team gave them a good fight in 
practically every event, and annexed two first places. Of these, Bushs vic
tory in the hundred-yard free style was the most thrilling, causing spectators 
to go wild as the Tartan swimmer came from behind to win by a foot. This 
was easily the best race seen in the Carnegie pool this year.
Carnegie took both first and second in the dive, the competition being between Hornbostel and Basler, the former winning by a small margin after 
both had given beautiful exhibitions.The plebe team lost a hard fought meet to Langley High school, this 
meet being run off simultaneously with the varsity meet.
The mermen will close the season tomorrow night, meeting the Pitt var
sity and freshman teams in the Panther pool in Trees gym. The results of 
the previous encounter of the two teams points to a Pitt win, but undoubted
ly the Tartans, much improved, will offer much more competition than they 
did earlier in the season.**?**
The intra-mural basket ball race has narrowed down to such a'point that 
"winners-in all. three leagues are practically in. McGill Hall seems to have 
the Federal League sewed up, while Theta Xi has but one stiff hurdle, Kappa 
Sigma, to get over, before being declared winner in the National League. 
Phi Kappaseems sure of the American circuit, unless Beta Sigma Rho takes 
them over next Monday.The championship series will probably start the .week , after next.* * * * * _*  *
With the advent of spring-like weather, thinly clad candidates for track honors can be seen disporting themselves daily on the various highways and 
"byways of Schenley Park. As soon as the track is in shape, it will be used 
for practice; unless the fickle weatherman turns loose a good snow storm or 
two.* * * * * * *
The end of the first week of the triangular rifle match between the var
sity, plebe and womens teams finds the varsity leading, with the women but 
three points behind. Should the girls hit their stride this week, they will 
a.nnex the school rifle title.*******.
The eminent Mr. Regis' Welsh, sporting editor of'the Pittsburgh PostGazette, favored our fair institution of les.ning with some very vague, but quite evidently dirty, digs, in his column last Tuesday morning. After a 
thorough perusal of the gentlemans ttempt to philosophize upon the differ
ence between Carnegie's and Pitts basket ball seasons, our only feeling was 
of regret that a man in his position should feel called upon to make an ass 
-of himself.
Race is Very Close in the Varsity-1 
Women-Pie be Match
VARSITY AND PLEBE 
SWIMMERS LOSE IN 
HARD FOUGHT MEETS
The varsity swimming team lost a 
stubbornly contested meet to the 
Homestead Library Club team last 
'Saturday, the final score being 28 to 
-22.
In spite of the defeat, Coach Risedorphs men Were a credit to him and 
to the school, displaying a continua
tion of the improvement shown in 
every meet to Sate. The Homestead 
team is one of the strongest independ
ent outfits in the state, and to hold it 
to such a low score is indeed com
mendable.
The best part of the meet was the
hundred y.rd free style race, in which 
Joe Bush, Carnegie sophomore swim
mer, spurted in the last lap to win 
by less than a foot.
The fancy dive devolved into a 
contest between Hornbostel and Bas
ler, of Carnegie, the former winning 
by a narrow margin after both had 
done some nifty work.
Durr, Tartan backstroker, was 
forced to take second in his event 
after giving his more experienced 
rival a severe tussel throughout the 
entire distance.
The Freshman Swimming team was 
beaten by the Langley High School 
Natators in a meet held in conjunc
tion with the varsity set-to. This is 
the first time that Langley has been 
met this year and though just a pre
paratory outfit, they presented a 
well-balanced team which had little
The Carnegie girls dcore of 4S7, 
last week, against the University of! 
South Dakotas 4S5 added a ninth vie-j 
| torv to the girls rifle conquests this I 
\ year. Considering that out of eleven 
matches fired against other colleges, 
the girls have met with but two de| feats, there is reason to . believe that 
j the team will finish-with the most sucj cessful season it has had during its 
| thrfee short years of existence. Such 
j a splendid record is seldom attained 
I by so shortlived an organization, so 
! that there is every cause to be proud 
I of the womens rifle team, 
i 'Some of the girls have been making 
j unusually high scores recently. With
in the last three weeks five scores of 
I 100 have been made, two of them by 
j Dorothy Roy, two by Alice Bright, and 
j one by Isobel Sheppard. A 100 is the 
j highest score it is possible to shoot,
I and with the new standard N. R. A.
, targets which were adopted this year 
 a score of 100 is very exceptional, 
j The* mens team has fewer of these 
perfect scores to its credit than the 
I girls.
Seven more college matches are to 
be fired this season. With practical| ly .the 'entire squad eligible for next 
| years team, the manager foresees 
| bright prospects for girls rifle shootj irig next season.
i The scoring in the South Dakota 
I match was as follows:
I Isobel Sheppard ............................... 99
| Dorothy Roy .................................... 98
Jean Roy .......................................... 97
j Katherine Collins ........\.................. 97
Alice Bright ..................................... 96
 trouble making 33 points to the 17 
! ran up by the Plebes.
| . The Visitors took first place in all 
| but two events. Beech, the Yearling 
| diver, gave a remarkable exhibition 
j to take first place. He has been go| ing great all season and shows lots 
! of promise. Ivlingener, also of the 
i Freshman squad, annexed the other 
; first in the 100-yard breast stroke. 
; He was held on even terms for the 
j greater part of that distance but with 
! a burst of speed on the last lap, easily 
j took the event.
PREPARE SCHOOL
OF GOVERNMENT
OPENING IN FALL
NIf OCL bUbOInmtIIf AOnO 
lUbON^ PlCkInk LOllC.s ----HORACE
Gentlemen : This is Latin. Latin is an Ancient Lan
guage. It is no longer studied in colleges. \ou are not 
expected to know what this quotation means.
Literal TranslationStrike up the band! Now is the 
time to drink. Now is the time to shake a mean pair 
of dogs.
Free TranslationWhen, in the course of human 
events, it becomes necessary for two or more undergrad
uates to gather together in friendly communion, there is 
only one drink, Gentlemen, for the occasionCanada 
Dry, The Champagne of Ginger Ales.
ReasonsCanada Dry h-ns a delightful flavor be
cause it is made from pure Jamaica ginger. Canada 
Dry has no false bite, no unpleasant after-taste and is 
really good for you because it contains no capsicum (red 
pepper). And, Gentlemen, it mixes well with other 
beverages. Class dismissed!
 The Qhampagne of (finger cyfles
Extract imported rout. Canada and bqllfed in the U. S. A.,by 
Canada Dry Ginger Ale. Incorporated, 25 \V. Aird Street, Ncn> York, N. Y. 
In Canada, J. J. McL<iu;hlin Limited. Established 1890.
Dont let em fool you,  lla! Look or the name 
"Canada Dry" on the bottle cap. Then youll be sun I
DRY
Washington  Preparations for the 
opening of the George Washington 
University School of Government next 
autumn are going forward.
The establishment of the school 
was made possible by the gift of 
?1,000,000 by the Supreme Council, 
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite 
Masons of the S'oulheVn Jurisdiction, 
as a memorial to George Washington.
The requirements for admission 
will be the same as to any university 
and a degree will be conferred upon 
the completion of a four-year pre
scribed course designed to give stu
dents a good ida of government ad
ministration, federal, state or local, 
and to inculcate in them a broader 
conception of the duties and obliga
tions of citizenship.
A statement isued by the Scottish 
Rite News Bureau here says: .
"There is a real need for compe
tent young men and women trained 
inthe theory and science of govern
ment, persons that can deal intelli
gently with the many problems that 
arise in this progressive 'ge. Every 
one, especially in this, a republican 
form of government, owes a duty to 
his country, in peace time as well 
as war, and surely there is no, higher 
vocation than fulfilling this duty1.by 
training oneself to serve the nation 
either as a public official or private 
citizen.
George Washington University is 
an ideal location for such training. 
The proximity of the government de
partments . . . offers a large field 
for research and study which is made 
available to the students.
In making possible a School of 
Government at that University the 
Supreme Council has opened up a new 
field, one rich in resources and little 
cultivated. The initial step taken by 
the Supreme Council is but a begin
ning and it is much deaired that other 
organizations and individuals will do 
all in their power, give their moral 
and financial support to this project 
that it might quickly attain its des
tined place of unsurpassed value to our 
country.
GERMANS PLACE
PLANETARIUMS
IN CITY SCHOOLS
Observers Can See in 2 or 3 Minutes 
The Full Diurnal Motions of Stars
Widest Streets
The widest street in the world is 
the Chninps Elysees, In Paris. It la 
250 feel across. Canal street, New 
Orleans, Is probably the widest In the 
United States. It bus a width of 200 
feet.
 CAMPUS WEEK PICTURES *
WANTED BY THISTLE *
The Traditions Editor of This* j
 tie is in search of a group of pic* I
 tures of last years Campus v I 
Week. Anyone caring to submit ?> |
 photos taken of the various v j
 events will please communicate * j 
with B. R. Gilcrest at the Sigma I
 Nu House as soon as possible. j
London.No fewer than 11 of Ger
manys largest cities have installed 
planetariuins as part of their educa
tional system for instruction in as
tronomy. These planetariuins, which 
are the invention of and manufac
tured by the famous firm of Zeiss at 
Jena, are only' offered for sale to 
municipal and educational bodies on 
the understanding that they shall not 
be used as a source of profit.
How big a building is necessary can 
be Imagined when one learns that the 
domes of those already erected in 
Germany vary from about 75 feet to 
100 feet in diameter across the inter
ior When not In use for astronomical 
lectures, the halls can be used for 
other purposes. ,
The planetarium instrument itself 
is designed to show an audience dur
ing the period of a lecture what may 
take days, months, or years to occur 
in the solar system. Professor 
Stromgren, director of the Copenha
gen Observatory, wrote that never 
has a means of entertainment been 
provided which is so instructive as 
this, never one so fascinating, never 
one with such general appeal. It is a 
school, a theater, a cinema in one; a 
schoolroom under t*lie vault of heav
en, a drama with the celestial bodies 
as actors.
A brief description of some of the 
main points^ of the wonderful Zeiss 
planetarium will give some idea of 
the ingenious construction. There are 
three axe&; one polar, perpendicular 
to the terrestrial equator; an axis of 
the ecliptic, perpendicular to the 
plane of the earth's orbit; and an 
axis for varying the geographical 
latitude. There are 32 projectors, 
distributed over two star carriers, for 
the representation of 5400 stars from 
magnitudes 1 to 6.2. There are 18 
projectors for nebulae, star clusters, 
and Sirius. Constellation names take 
332 projectors.' The Milky Way takes 
2 projectors.
The sun and its halo, the moon, 
Saturn and the zodiacal light take 
10 projectors and mechanism. There 
are eight projectors and mechanism 
for Mercury, Venus, Mars, and JupiLEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of Dancing
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt 
Beginners Monday and Friday! 
I Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and I 
Saturday Evenings. Private lessons| J by appointment.
Mayflower 7891
tor. And thore are yet others Tor the 
ecliptic and celestial equator, north 
and south polar points, the meridian 
j line, etc. The motors give the diur
nal motion in oithor I, 2, 3, or \ 
minutes, and throe motors give the 
annual motion In 7.3 seconds, and I, 
3, 4, or 7 mlnutos. Another motor 
gives the gyroscopic motion of the 
oart.li, 26,000 years,< In 4 mlnutos.
For lecturing purposes tho spoaker 
has nocossarlly to be located away 
from the instrument so that his view 
of tne dome may not bo blocked. He 
j is'therefore provided with a luminous 
| pointer which projects a beam of 
light on any poi lit.Christian Science 
Monitor.
DdUDENd
DUPPLWED
C. M. DdrUhd
3806 FORBES STREET 
OAKLAND
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
DWhhERENCE
When you rent a tuxedo suit from us you 
rent the best.
Quality, Pit arid Style. All sizes.
Special rates to students
pHWddWNGdON DREDD
DkvUI'C kIn dNCL C^mAkIi
The Oakland Bank
Capital, $300,000.00 
Surplus, $400,000.00 
Deposits Over $6,000,000.00
OFFICERS
C. B. Aylesworth............. ...........................President
Clyde C. Taylor............... ..................Vice President
P. J. Miller............................................Vice President
O. C. Young..............;..................................Treasurer
P. W. Cotton................................Assistant Treasurer
C. W. Elmi.......................................................Secretary
Adam Roscoe................................Assistant Secretary
DIRECTORS
C. II. Kerr John Dimliug
R. Rogers Flannery James B. Clark
Barney Dreyfuss Clyde O. Taylor
J. O. .Wilier A. B. Sheets
R. J. Miller C. P. Aylesworth
A. J. Loeffler John G. Pew
Member Federal Reserve System

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1928
an
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2000 
Published once every week during the collega your by undertrraduates of Carnogle. Institute 
of 'l'ocbnolooy. Entered in t'ho PlLUiburnh 
Post O (Tic Ait necond-claso matter.
EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-in-Chief ........;------Fenton Finn
Managing Editor...............Milton Cohen
News Editor..............Margaret RussellAthletic Editor____*............Fred Wood
Women Editor.......................Jean RoyAlumni Editor...................Herbert Grau
EXCHANGE EDITORS 
Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Russell Bullinger William Rose
A.' E. Fisher E. Weaver
John Sehnieder Meredith Stump
Helen Reed Nathan Miller
Sara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS 
S. C. Ralston Harold Jacobson
Dorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS 
H. L. Bunker, Jr. Ina Hansell
E. Jarema 
T. Lippert 
W. W. Hay
C. Park J. J. Boyle 
H. N. Meixner 
J. Carpe H. Levinson 
J. W. Eason 
H. Booth 
M. Echels 
N. Kline W. H. Worland 
W. H. Martsolf 
G. M. Wilson 
L. I. Shusset 
A. G. Allen
D. K. Tomer 
L. M. Baugh
BUSINESS STAFF 
Business Manager.. .Shelby McMillion
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants R. Wehrle
T. R. Zenc D. H. Center
W. M. Crosby
E. Schlesinger
B. KannJ. H. McAteer
C. Boyd
K. ODonnell R. Bramson 
II. Whitehill 
R. Barr A. M. Fisher 
J. E. White 
M. B. Maze 
C. R. Nelson 
C. F. Ackenheil 
A. F. Phillips 
W. L. Myers 
J. B. Patterson 
E. J. Dattisman
CIRCULATION 
Circulation Manager..
Assistants
G. Brahmst 
J. Roth
G. C. Harbison G. Thompson 
B. Wedner 
A. Teplitz 
M. Malinich 
R. W. Carter 
S. A. Bontonari
STAFF
Harold Kandell
A. Prank 
A. Haynes
C. E. Blass S. Bluestone 
I. LevinS. Feigenbaum 
J. P. Jones
D. Seville
Thistledown
Cardo Chardon Discnwolle
Thistledown's readers may he wonJ 
dering where he was last week. They j 
may take their choice of explanations. I 
They may think if they wish that he I 
was simply lazy, or that he wrote I 
something daring that it had to be 
suppressed, or that he was on I 
charette. If they noticed, however, j 
that neither C. C. D. or K. S. N. or 
E. W. W. appeared with an article on 
last week's back page, they may sus
pect, if they will, that the three of 
them went off on a bat together, and | 
were at the end too done up to write, j
Thistledown holds up to ridicule I 
this week as one of C. I. T.'s prize exI 
amples of collegiate idiocy, a frat hell 
week. Now if Thistledown should say 
lie was describing hell week in his i 
own fraternitythe finest bunch of | 
fellows around the campussome j 
bright boy might discover who lie is. \ 
So he will simply say that if such a j | 
hell week as he describes didn't i 
happen in every (fraternity, it was simj 
ply because of a lacjt of sophomoric ! 
imaginative vigor.
During hell week, then, one delegaj 
tion of plebes had to enter their | 
House through a basement bulkhead, 
remove their shoes and stockings, 
roll up theirpants, daub the frats 
Greek letters on their foreheads witli, 
shoe blacking in the cellar, and then 
walk backwards wherever they went 
through the House.
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
j The other day in New York, some 
j six hundred hoys rioted and stormed 
j an office which had advertised an 
: opening 'for a $17-a-week office hoy.
Reports from most of the industrial 
I centers of the country agree in de! scribing a suddenly critical unemployj ment situation such as the country
tnate consequences are however, im 
the fact that each advance of this 
type seems to throw out of employ
ment a mass of men, who are hard to 
reincorporate into industry. Output 
has increased by 70 per cent since 
1914, but factory employment during 
the same period has declined rela
tively, as it has only increased 15 per 
cent. The substitution of turn-stileslias not experienced for some years, j for ticket-choppers in the New
lately presented by the Drama Depart
ment, I find it advisable to temper 
justice wih mercy, to eschew very 
carefully any semblence of harshness, 
Calmly then, and with all regard for 
every suitable convention, I pro
nounce my findings concermng the
At all times within the House each i first of the number. My decision has
plebe had to have on or with him-j been weighed dispassionately and
these things: a pair each of black | well. It has been solicitously aired;
andand tan shoe strings, a box of safety 
matches, two collar buttons, chewing 
tobacco, ten buffalo nickles all of the 
same year, an extra handkerchief, a 
little comb and pocket mirror, a 1928 
five dollar bill, a diary, a stolen 
vanity case, a menu card from some 
Youngstown restaurant,
The paradoxical element in the sit
uation is in the fact that at this very 
: period we seem to have been thrust
into a prosperity, unparalleled in tlip 
industrial history of the world. At 
least, some five or six years ago, the 
spokesmen of the nation discovered 
: prosperity and have dinned its meaI sage into our ears ever since. . Just
| as this was becoming perha"ps a tra| dition, the ugly head of unemploy
ment is reared once more, that bug| bear which has periodically robbed 
j the machine-system of its great tri
umphs for the welfare of the masses.I
At the heart of the problem lies 
| one of the most vexing and profound 
j considerations of the recent life of 
k | men. This problem of maladjustment 
j is not only an industrial or economic 
i one, it reaches far deeper into 1 thb 
, , _ Jt .  . , ,, 'very nature of social life. RecurrentIn considering the five one act plays { p ay one  more grace ul o eis. | in history, we are faced with the
"Checkmate", by Miss Finster* problem, that men have not been able
wald, was a serious experiment with j to cope with their own prowess and
the incest theme, and came very close J strength, that the cleverness, adroitto succeeding. The strained, tired,  i^ess and skill of their brawn has eviliysterical wife was a splendid por-j Gently outstripped their moral capacitrait, swiftly and economically done, ; ty to order, distribute and enjoy in 
sharp, clear-cut, and appallingly real, j restraint the products of their, toil.
Lastly, we come to Mr. Herberts j So we have erected a machine civwordy satire (the genial fellow ad-; ilization in which the tools have bemits that it is wordy himself); and 
since it is satire, it succeeds or fails
PLAY REVIEW
Treacle, Pap and HoneyI often tottered, and on occasiop were 
even known to fall. Let us call this
it has been allowed to simmer 
cool; and it remains the same. So, ' in proportion as it is relevant and 
then, I assert that Square Pegs, by j true, and especially as it arouses the 
Clifford Bax, is, in my opinion, the ! appropriate emotions. Now of course 
flimsiest, the sickliest, the most in-j the play is enormously funny; it 
ocuous bit of trash that has yet been sparkles with fantastic jests; it teems 
spewed into our midst. j with windy burlesque; and at most
come incredibly refined in automatic 
adeptness and productivitytruly a 
signal tribute to the ability of man 
to wrest from a niggardly natural en
vironment its secret powers and 
forces. And the end is nowhere in 
sight. But the beneficence and
glory of the mighty industrial epic
:, a pen filled \ The writer, no doubt to holster his j points the fun-making it not unj is blotted by the crudeness, the obis and thread, | rickety offspring, made it iimp in | deserved. But I consider it highly unj tuseness and the shortsighted injusOfllc*Room 12, Industries Building. Offico 
HoursMonday to Thursday, 12:30-1:20 
Paper made up Friday, 12:30-6:00.
To insure publication on the succeeding 
Tuesday, news items must bo in the student 
pout office or Tartan Oflice before ! :30 Thurs
day.Aftlcr Office Hours call Schcnlcy 1490, 
Schonlcy 98<10, Schenley 0211.All editorials which are initialed 
are contributed by persons other than 
the editor, uninitialed editorials are 
those by# the editor.
! other member of the frat by his full 
haptizism name, preceding that by 
Sir, Most Worthy Sir, or Most Illus
trious Sir according as the member
THE BACK PAGE
So much good material for the back 
page has como in this week that the 
editor has decided to refrain ifrom 
nny additional comments. Thistle
down has taken ono of the subjects 
which had been plan nod as an edi
torial and has covorod it fulty and in 
hearty accordance with tlio editor's 
viewpoint. Their is an oxcellonl con
tribution on the unemployment situa
tion in the column "Seriously Speak
ing." And to top it off K. S. N. has 
added to his mysterious arqqr by 
another play review of the five one 
acts which have been playing in the 
Little Theater. The editorials which 
have accumulated during the past 
week being of a nature that is unaf
fected by the time element can await 
another issue, in the meantime a per
usal of the aforementioned articles on 
thisjmgo will not come amiss to the 
reader.
MUSIC HATH GERMS
with green ink, needles _____ _______wf
bird seed, chewing gum. safety pins j varseithinking in this manner to pass i fortunate that everyone who wishes tice with which the tools have been
and a paddle. Swat! Swat! I It off for art. So he would have done, l.to'have a dig, at the bombastic, the j used. The powerful still clamber to
Each plebe had to address every perhaps if the verse had been good; wordy, and the purple kind of drama, j might upon the backs of the weaker,
but it Is onlv ordinary shambling dogShould presume to say that he is j and within the heart of men still
gerel If the poor' thing had been satirizing Shakespeare. He is not, 1 there rages often the darkling urges
segregated where it -rightly belongs, of course: he is satirizing the Elizaof the warrior and the huntsman,
there would he no necessity of And"ethan Tragedy of Blood, and Eliza" 1 " <
was sophomore, junior or senior. ! ing fault with it: that in to say, if it 1 bethan -tragedy in general; he is
Each pledge had to eat sitting/on a had been made a part of some cheap j I'lzin^ Marlowe, Kyd, Webster and
stool the seat of which was on a musical revue. There it might pass | Mai'ston much more than ShakeslevSI with'the top of the table. He in spite o[ its dullness, and its tritePeare. And in the case of Mr. Herwas given one spoon oacii meal with ness would be welcome. Or it might.! t)el't; at least, he is coming nearer to
whir'll to eat that entire meal. Each \ please, in a mild way, as the piece de j those lesser and therefore more typiplebe had to carry a square piece of i resistance of a small town high school c:l' gentry than he is to the master
linoleum to stand upon whenever lie entertainment. > who, almost alone among poets,
I came to a full stop, and a circular But this is not a small town (j&xcept j illf: beautj and tintli e\en
Piece ol sandpaper to sit on when he :  lril loast) ,ld Ule Dran)11 De-1 ut bombaft a.t the. ve,'.y oment | sat down. He had to know where in | Bpi, of It8 youtlC he was showing. , other p aces, . , * . . . . . T. I that he knew bombast to be highlyrespectable traditions to maintain. Itthe House was a fan and a Chinese 
parasol in case any member com*
I plained of the heat. Each day every I 
pjodge had to momorize a column of i 
the telephone directory, a recipe out i 
of a cook book, and a chapter of the 
Bible. Swat!
Each pledge was forced to bring i 
hack to the House sometime during j 
the week two such trophies us these: ] 
n traffic officers whistle, telephone 
pole spikes, a home made cusard pie, > 
a sot of false teeth, Ohio auto j 
plates, handcuffs, a dentists tweezeVs 
for pulling teeth, a dog house, n live I 
chicken, a lock of curly hair, a cow's j 
tooth.
to keep the stniin 
however, with in! ridiculous. You cannot, therefore,cannot continue
pure and vigorous, ..>, - **-1 f rant aM pathos; he did it himself jec ions of pap, 110 matter how blue. , , , , ,| M o || 1 X 'three hundred and thirty years ago."Square Pegs Was blue. Let us pass
The story has now become so usual 
as to be disregarded. Output mounts 
year after year, arid piles of com
modities are heaped up at an increas
ing tempo. Last year we produced 
4 per cent more than in 1923; 16 per 
cent more than we did eight years ago. 
In agriculture, the nation's output 
has grown 28 per cent in the last de
cade. I11 the month of May, 1927, our 
industries turned out 70 per cent more 
than they did in the average month 
of 1914. There are few industries ex
empt from this process of building up
011.
The second play, "Three Hundred 
Dollars, we find to he "based" 011 a 
story by Coppard, I regret my ignor
ance of that story, for* I should like 
to know how much Miss Giffen has 
added to the' hare theme. At any 
rate, it 1 evident that slid has 
handled her material skilfully, and 
has given us a play, which, although 
a little creaky at the climaxes, is yet 
amusing, pointed, and true enough to j 
haracter,. after all, is. But j 
since it is a play of character, one
satirize Shakespeare by making fun ; productivity whether it be eoal-min-1 ing, cigar and cigarette manufacture, 
the construction of buildings, streetrailways, or what have you. The fi
nancial columns of the journals par
ade almost daily the tale of the 
munificent dividends that accumulate 
as a result of these technical improve
ments.
The baffling, puzzling and unforYork
subways, to choose one instance, has 
cut down the number of men employ
ed from i,500 to 471. Even in farm
ing, in the last four years, production 
has been increased 10 per cent but 
farm labor itself has decreased 5 per 
cent in the interim. On every hand, 
the machine displaces men. In the 
manufacture of electrical instruments, 
recently, a machine has beenintro
duced which does 11 operations sim
ultaneously, turning out 38 units a 
minute, whereas by hand it would 
take a man a half-hour to turn out 
one unit.
Ultimately there can be no difficul
ty, theoretically, as the increased pro
ductivity will redound to our benefit, 
for the simple reason that the more 
that is made the more there is to be 
consumed. But the problems of dis
tribution and the sharing of the bril
liant advances remain insuperable, 
because of outworn legal, political and 
social ideas. In other words, our 
weakness^lies in our own conceptions 
of social regulation. It is rather 
pitiful to set our politics beside our 
technology, for in the realm of the 
former we still act like savages, or at 
least unimaginatively, content merely 
to acquire for ourselves and to hold 
on to our own possessions, unheedful 
of the needs of others less fortunate
ly endowed and less fortunately born 
with all sorts of spoons in their 
mouths.
It is enough to make the gods weep 
in dismay 01* guffaw in ridicule to ob
serve that exactly as we conquer the 
environment and turn it to our uses, 
we cannot regulate nor moralize the 
benefits. We set up magnificent dis
play 011 the one hand, and degrading 
misery on the other. The problem, 
as stated above, is not unique to the 
twentieth centuryit has always been 
the rule in society that those rule 
who can, and what happens to the 
others is nobodys business.
Mechanical hands, nimbler mechan
ical fingers, rapid mechanical legs 
niust this inevitably create a vacuity, 
a nonpulsed dilemma for men? Must 
it necessarily throw men into pro
longed idleness in which character 
deteriorates, hope is lost and unrest 
creates a social schism leading to rev
olution as an end-result? No one can 
determine the outcome. Certainly, 
allowing things to drift or blindly de
fending things as they are will not 
solve any social question. Read the 
history of fallen nations and you will 
discover this truth. Less posing and 
infantile attitude in law, politics and 
social questiQns will aid. If nothing 
can be done, however, perhaps it is 
true that men are just as anxious to 
pull down the house as soon as they 
are to build it up, like a child with his 
blocks.
NATHAN MILLER.
I Pledges were allowed to wash, and 1 .
to brush their teeth, hut they were 1 1,1
not allow,id to cut their lmlr, or their ! 11 V'Y' ""T? ,T I eautift.1 and wonderful to behold
nails, or lo shave. Swat.il I !1.,Kh.t wer< T / j Perhaps the most shrewdly writtenhinge more definitely upon character1
I alone than upon fortuitous incident 
i rather implausibly introduced at the 
j last momentin other words, that
At any rate, the farce was delight
ful. It was beautifully acted, too 
chiefly, perhaps, because the deft 
hand of Mr. Wallace was very' ap
parent everywhere in it. From the 
rhythmic champing of Miss McFadI
den to the iridescent rhapsodies of_____________________________________________________________,___________
Mr. Woolley; from the sinister mut;LONUI'C ^f MN. f^wkI L^ LHO 'N^LOCqO; UILONOCLUI' rIkliCUC ^f DkUli PkAONcontortions of the terrified Mr.
Fisher; from the desperate wrlthlngs ; 
of Mr. Willson to the heroic yawps of j 
Mr. Woods, this fearful tragedy of 
the clingy dens of Soho was indeed |
j Under this heading, in the March 4 
I issue of the Sun-Telegraph appeared 
j part of it, was the ecstatic ordering j an interesting article by Professor 
! of the dinner, to all of which the in' cieeton of the Carnegie Psychology 
credibly,^authentic waiter gave carej Department, containing an indexed
MknO bijPN^f. CUOOL^I ^f PCifH DOAL.
What makes a good newspaper? ] cent; editorials, 2:14 per cent, and
'Add to the roll of the worlds great 
detective heroes United States Sena
tor J. T. Heflin of Alabama, who has 
just uncovered a crime that might 
have daunted the famous Sherlock 
himself. A violin was sent him 
through the mails by an anonymous 
hand, and on the same day the other 
senators received invitations to a re
cital to be given by Mr. Heflin from 
the top of Washington monument on 
March 17.
Even those familiar with the Sena
tor's recent gallant defense of America 
from the danger of an invasion by the 
pope might have thought this to be 
only a practical joke; in rather poor 
taste, to be sure, but still harmless. 
But they are not familiar with the 
lengths to which the enemies of such 
a man will go; it required the intel
lect of the Senator himself to reveal 
the plot. This was no less than a 
dastardly attempt to assassinate him 
by saturating the firings of the violin 
'with poisonous germs, which would be 
disturbed by his playing (presumably 
at the rocital on the Washington 
monument), and inhaled by him with 
fatal results.
Tlio nation may well rojolco at the 
narrow escapo of its defender. As for 
the wretches who inspired the deed, 
lot them bowore lost they arouso the 
ire of such a man. No human plan 
fools a brain that perceives a microbe 
arriving for no good purpose,;Har
vard Crimson.
1 Each night the pledges wore asI sembled for trial at twelve-thirty.
Trial was tb make them realize the , __ _ _ _ _____
seriousness of frat life Anyone I I ^o",l1 U8t f U,e latlve o eaChI could give them two or three swats I . ., , . _____, I his hands. This mixture ol the most
at any time during the day, of course.
Trial meant about a dozen swats 
apiece each night. After such invigoration the plebes were usually 
taken out and deposited somewhere to 
walk back. Everything possible was 
done to keep them from getting more
than four hours of sleep any night. ^ 0[ a cket, which money she I ----------------,7-' . During the whole week the delega, To refer more demtely to the
should come about entirely through 
I the clash of personality and desires, 
' with no reinforcement from the dis| covery of the remarkably precious 
i statute. Or if that rather surprising 
i coincidence were left out in favor of 
| another: if Hilda were made to re
ceive fare money from her uncle inI could send to her lover in exactly thetion was expected to attend classes, i , . ./, . ,, ,, I same manner as she sent the miracu
Prof. Thomas E. French, head of tlio 
Department of Drawing and Descrip
tive Geometry at the Ohio State Uni
versity, visited the Department of En
gineering Drawing recently. He has 
since written to Professor McCully: 
Your method of coordination of draw
ing and descriptive geometry is one 
of the finest things I have ever seen 
and it is no wonder that you have enand uphold the scholastic reputation , ,, , , . ,,___. . ___,,,_ , . ... , . '1. , lous three hundred, the plot would beof the fraternity by doing satisfactory , , uoClH.  J  , _ simpler, more plausible, and certainlywnrlr. V9CL\ dLTE AYnpnron tn tnlfp . _ , , ,,more unifiedand poor Hilda would 
be in an even worse mess at the end, j
work. They were expected to take j 
cheerfully all that was coming to
division of the Pittsburgh paper. As feverish mock-poetic, with the most j explained in the article, Professor 
trivially realistic demonstrated per-; cl^etons survey included 24 daily 
fectlv the psychological truth of inan(j f0U1. Sunday issues of the Suntensification of opposites by simple Telegraph picked at random during 
juxtaposition. And so the flowery months of October, November,
harangue seemed more flowery, and DeCember and January. The analysis 
more absurd, and the ridiculous j was entirely quantitative, with 110 atwaiter was doubly so. ^ tention paid to the quality of any ari tide. In truth, the quality is not a 
individual performancesin the first [ question for the analyst, but a quespiece good acting was impossible, of , tion to be rated by the reader and his 
course; one cannot make anything j irregular intricacies, 
out of attenuated trash. Both actors j just what prompted the -Hearst pastruggled; notably Miss Wakefield, i per to call for such an tableau would
them, and be thankful it wasnt more, j which woui(i please the audience very i who shol(1 be commended for her j be hard to say, but at all events it 
They were expected to be a credit to j highly Moreover in that case there i courage, but not for her achievement.  brought an interesting disclosure.
would have been no need of miscastA" both actors showed the painful For instance, the impression prevalentthe fraternity by remaining glad they 
were pledges, and soon to be members 
able to put the next delegation 
through the same cut-ups. This is 
what hell week can be in a supposedly 
respectable national fraternity in an 
admittedly civilized college.
Thistledown felt slighted in not be
ing asked to the Tartan staff theater 
party last Wednesday night. After
wards they had luncheon at the D. U. 
House. Thistledown does not care to 
divulge where they had breakfast, or 
where they spent the rest of the 
night.
Thistledown was also disappointed 
not to bo called last Tuosday by PI 
Delta Epsilon. Ho is quite willing to 
put it up to Ills readers, is this column 
not meritorious work 011 a Carnogie 
publication, and are his efforts not n 
notable achievement, in collogiato 
journalism ?
ing Miss Copas again, 
heavy, stalking tragedy; she can do !
She can do i results of being forced by the director I among the majority of readers today is
into his arbitrary and impossible i the belief that at least 50 per cent
farce; but, being a person of exjmold' ; of the paper is devoted to crime,
ivprnpc thpre i? nntliinefor her In ! In the second play no one was outi whereas, in reality, the entire amount
between ; standing, but in the third I think it of such news, from murder down to
thusiastic students. I hope you can 
bring a compete set of drawings to the 
Chapel Hill meeting oi the S. P. E. E. 
this year." Professor French and 
Professor McCully are members of the 
Committee of Standardization of 
Drafting Room Practice and also are 
on the Committee on Drawing and De
scriptive Geometry of the S. P. E. E.
The third plav, by the mighty Gil
bert himself, is 'written in his famous 
manner of big-bellied romance. As 
such it was interesting, although after 
it had mounted ponderously to its cli
max, there were some among us wiio 
were disappointed in the happy end
ing, and would have wished the 
Regent to have entered after the duel 
instead of the husband, and the 
pseudo-acting to have gone on 
straight to tlio final curtain. But Gil
bert, being kind hearted, spoiled his 
play. With the elements of true 
tragedy in his hand he let them fall 
with a gontlo clatter, thus pleasing 
the greater number in his audience, 
end, it is to be feared, himself also. 
Yet he might at least have saved his 
play from the lame finale of the fops 
applause. Perhaps he did not know 
how to close: a pranciug Sullivan 
melody had saved him in this respect 
so many times. Indeed, this play 
serves as one more demonstration of 
the fact that together the peerless 
pair were invincible;. separated, they
will be agreed that one individual was 
worthy of high praiseMiss Tedrow. 
Compare her oise, her command, her 
free, intense, controlled action with 
that of the majority of the other per
formers, and you will have a splen
did illustration of the difference be
tween an actor and a misfit. Miss 
Tedrow and Miss Wein were un
questionably actors; although it 
would be difficult to decide which 
of the two deserves the higher praise. 
The former captured the blazing fire 
of high romance; the latter the 
smouldering fire of drabness and 
misery.
It appears that this season, as we 
look forward to further productions, 
we must depend upon the women to 
make them interesting. It do not re
member a year in recent times when 
there have been so many women of 
almost equal ability to choose from, 
or so many men of quite negligible 
ability to avoid. May the directors, 
then, avoid wisely and choose well.
K. S. N.
simple infractions of city ordinances, 
covers only 4.51 per cent of the paper, 
a very low margin. Another startling 
fact brought out by the test is that 
Government and politics, seeming to 
claim so much space, require slightly 
less than 2 per cent of the type. Even 
these rates might be reduced when it 
is understood that the large item, ad
vertising, was left4 out of the analy
sis. This irrelevant portion does 
claim 48.1 per cent of the total space, 
but the comparison was drawn only 
from the remaining 52 per cent.
It would be impossible to give here,' 
as Professor Cieeton has devised it, 
the entire 33 sub-divisions of the pa
per, but a broader summary includes 
the following heads: Advertising,
4S.1 per cent; magazine and fiction 
features, 12.1G per cent; comics, 8.<96 
per cent; amusement news, 7.85 per 
cent; business, 5.7G per cent; crime 
news, or newTs related to physical char
acter and welfare, 4:51 per cent; soc
ial activities, 2.51 per cent; local and 
foreign government politics, 2.34 per
miscellaneous minor items, 6.57 per 
cent. With these items in mind, per
haps a different impression might be 
gathered. It has also been estimated 
that the average reader spends 15 
minutes a day in scanning the paper. 
This time, Professor Cieeton believes, 
is spent 011 the comics and the first 
two pages of the edition. It is there
fore no small wonder that the present 
belief prevails, for an analysis 'of the 
front page shows a total crime percenage of one-third of the headlines and 
one-fourth of the pictures. But the in
trinsic value of a paper does not lie in 
the front page nor in the comic sec
tion. Nor is it the doing of the editor 
that so much of our front page is so 
occupied with gruesome tales and im
moralities. Rather is it the influence 
of the public, for its demand for such 
news, is the policy of the paper gov
erned, and its circulation increased. 
The editor is editor only as he de
cides the extent of what is to be per
mitted. The advertiser is the regula
tor of the size of the paper, for he 
know's thatthe efficiency of his adver
tisement is greatly increased when 
there is not so much bulk in other, de
partments of the paper.
Major-General George S. Gibbs, 
cliief of the United States Army Sig
nal Corps, inspected the class room 
work, equipment and scientific train
ing of the R. O. T. C., recently. He 
expressed himself as being highly 
pleased. He thought the student 
group a fine lot of boys.
Princeton, N. J.(IP)"I do not 
believe the youth of today is God
less; I believe that they are nearer 
the truth about religion than we of 
the older generation are, said Dr. 
Clarence Cook Little, President of the 
University of Michigan at the gather
ing of college presidents here recently 
to consider undergraduate religion.
"There is little difference between 
dogmatists, he said, "whether they 
are found in the laboratory or the pul
pit of a too-highly organized church. 
The younger generation is discerning 
enough to recognize this fact.
