^CARNEGIETARTAN
^C ARNEG^I^'S
WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 1963
Queen Finalists Await 
Opening of Carnival
June Helmers Carole Dennison Diana Dayton
As a result of the voting last Friday by the men on camp
us, the three Spring Carnival Queen finalists were selected. 
They are Carole Dennison of Chi Omega, June Helmers of 
---------------------------------------------:-----------?Delta Delta Delta, and Diana
Tech Urges 
Parents Visit
On Saturday, May 11, 1963 Car
negie Institute of Technology will 
sponsor a Freshman Parents Day. 
This special day is set aside so 
that parents of freshman may 
meet members of the faculty be
come better acquainted with the 
school, and have an opportunity 
to see various aspects of life at 
Carnegie Tech.
The day will open with a wel
come by Dr. Warner and Deans 
Brown, Milligan, Swank, and 
Strick. After the initial welcome 
each parent will visit the respec
tive college of their son or daugh
ter. In the College of Engineer
ing and Science Dean Teare will 
speak on Education for an Ex
ploding Technology. Dean Stein
berg will address parents of Mar
garet Morrison students on High
er Education for Women. Dean 
Rice will speak on the topic Fine 
Arts College at Work. In addi
tion, each college will feature ex
hibits designed and constructed 
by the students.
After lunc:-' parents will visit 
the fraternities and mens and 
womens dormitories. Then par
ents will have the option of go
ing on a guided tour of the cam
pus or attending an address by 
Coleman on The Humanities and 
Social Sciences in the Modern 
World. The day will end with 
the Presidents Reception in Skibo 
ballroom.
Final Concert 
Presents Mozart
The final concert in Carnegie 
Tech's 1962-63 Carnegie Concert 
Series, an evening of chamber 
music, will be presented on Wed
nesday, May 1, at 8:30 p.m. in 
the Carnegie Lecture Hall.
The program will include the 
Mozart Quartet in D Major, K. 
285, for flute, violin, viola, and 
cello; Ravel Sonata for violin and 
cello; and Schubert Trout Quin
tet, Opus 114. Performing in the 
concert will be: Anthony Bianco, 
bass; Eugene Eicher, cello; George 
Grossman, viola; Sidney Harth, 
violin; Ethan Stang, flute; and 
Nelson Whitaker, piano.
The concert is free and open 
to the public; tickets are not re
quired.
Dayton of Kappa Kappa Gamma.
The winner has actually been 
selected, but will not be an
nounced until Call Day. At that 
time, she will be crowned by Dr, 
Warner, and will officially opea 
Spring Carnival.
At the dance on Saturday night, 
the new Queen will reign through 
the evening, accompanied by the 
music of Alex Powell and his or
chestra. When the dance ends, so 
does her brief reign, and the cam"pus must wait til next year for 
another Queen.
17 Freshmen 
Join Scimitars, 
Soph Honorary
A scimitar is a short curved 
Arabian sword. It is also the name 
of Techs sophomore mens hon
orary which on April 22 tapped 
seventeen freshmen for next 
years membership. After review
ing applications, which included 
the applicants activities plus a 
paragraph indicating his feeling 
on what an honorary such as the 
Scimitars can do for Carnegie 
Tech, twenty-eight men were se
lected to be interviewed by the 
present Scimitars. The interviews 
resulted in the following seven
teen men being selected for next 
years honorary: Wallace Block, 
Joseph Bowman, Guy Bradley, J. 
William Burdett, Jay Earley, 
Stephen Easley, Richard Elder, 
Robert Fritz, Tom Glassberg, Dale 
Johnson, Tod Johnson, Ronald 
L u p i s h, Christopher Macosko, 
Douglas Miller, Richard Morrison, 
Peter Riccardella, and Robert 
Wohlford.
In addition to honoring these 
freshmen outstanding in activities 
and scholarship, the Scimitar So
ciety annually helps out in sev
eral campus activities. This past 
year the Scimitars served Tech 
j during Orientation Week, Fall 
Festival, and Candidates Day. 
The coming Spring Carnival will 
be a main course of energy for 
the new and old Scimitars since 
they are responsible for many of 
the necessary services performed 
during the carnival.
Congratulations and good luck 
to next years Scimitars.
NTmGR'nR nGoAnAOAR
VOLUME 55  NUMBER 25
Student Congress
Today, at 4:30 P.M. in Skibo 
Ballroom the new and the old of 
Student Congress will meet. The 
wnewly elected members of one 
day will be present at their first 
meeting, while the old members 
will be attending their next to 
last meeting.
Dr. Warner will address the 
group, speaking on Teclis newly 
announced ten - year expansion 
Program. Following his speech, 
nominations from the floor for 
next years offices will be made.
Carnival Schedule
WEDNESDAY, MAY 1
8:30 p.m.  Scotch n Soda, Miss Stars and Stripes
All night: Fraternities and Sororities work on 
booths.
THURSDAY, MAY 2*4:30 p.m.  Midway opens, judging of fraternity 
booths.
8:30 p.m.  Scotch n Soda, final performance
FRIDAY, MAY 3
7:30 a.m.  Buggy Inspections behind grandstand 
10:00 a.m.  Sweeptakes preliminaries 
12:00 noon  Midway opens
1:30 p.m.  Coronation and Call Day on Flagstaff 
Hill (Gym if rain)
3:00 p.m.  Faculty egg toss on E & S mall 
3:45 p.m.  Sorority relays, E & S mall 
9:00 p.m.  The Hi-Los in the gym 
12:00 midnight  Midway closes
SATURDAY, MAY 4
10:00 a.m.  Sweepstakes finals
12:00 noon  Midway opens
1:00 p.m.  Plank Jousting, behind Morewood
8:30 p.m.  Midway closes
9:00 p.m.  Alex Powell and his orchestra in Skibo 
1:00 p.m.  Awards
SUNDAY, MAY 5
2:00-5:00 p.m.  Open House, mens and womens dorms. 
3:00 a.m.  Morewood Curfew
Calls Honor 
 Scholarship, 
Award W inner s
{ 7 Sororities 
Present Skits
Melodies from seven famous 
musicals were heard from the 
Scotch n Soda stage last Tues
day, as sororities presented their 
Carnival Queen candidates. The 
competition, which is sponsored 
annually by the Spring Carnival 
Committee, was organized this 
year by Margie Park, Chairman 
of Queen Presentations.
Rewriting the lyrics of Phenominal Philiques to introduce 
their candidates, the groups sang 
and danced in their skits which
[continued on page 61
 Photo by Bill Jackson
The 1963 Call Day program will 
begin at 1:30 p.m., May 3. The 
schedule will be as follows:
Selection by the Kiltie Band 
Procesional and Honor Guard 
Welcome by John Bertucci, M.C.
Calls:
Scabbard and Blade 
Phi Tau Gamma 
Omicron Delta Kappa 
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia
Claymore Clan 
Tau Beta Pi
Selection by the Cameron Choir 
Calis:
Pi Delta Epsilon 
Sigma Alpha Iota 
Alpha Phi Omega 
Mortar Board 
Delta Skull
Selection by the Kiltie Band
Awards:
Selection by Cameron Choir 
Presentation of Queens Court 
1$$ Crowning of Queen
Official Opening of Spring Car
nival
Selection og Kiltie Band 
Recessional
Mens Dorm Elects Tom Miller 
President For Coming Year
Owens Scholarship 
Sigma Alpha Iota 
Pi Delta Epsilon 
Medal of Merit (journalism) 
Tap Beta Pi Award 
Alfred Cerrits Awara 
Phi Tau Gamma 
Pittsburgh Panhellenic 
Scholarship Trophy 
Student Congress Activities 
Keys
Hamilton Watch Award 
Essay Award
Recently, Mens Dormitory elect
ed its new president for the 1963- 
64 school year. The president is 
nominated from and elected by 
the eleven members of the Coun
cil,
The new president is S. Thomas 
Miller, a junior in the department 
of Industrial Management, has 
been a member of Scimitars and 
Delta Skull, was vice-president 
of Mens Dorm Council, adjutant 
to CFP Court, and chairman of 
1962s Orientation Week.
He presently is a member of 
Sigma Nu, president of the De
bate Society, chairman of the Gen
eral Campus Committee of Stu
dent Congress, 1963 Thistle Sales 
Manager, and a member of PiDE.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 1, 1963
ffic/
i Out/
TONITE at the
' STmno1
OAKLAND
 NOW SHOWING 
Thurs., Fri., Sat., Sun., Mon., Tues. 
Connie Francis  Paula Prentiss
"Follow The Boys
in metrocolor 
also
William Holden  Trevor Howard
"The Lion"
in cinemascope and color
COMING SOON 
"A Child Is Waiting"
MATINEE ONLY 
SAT., SUN. MAY 4 and 6
Little Red Riding Hood'
BOARDOF
ADVISORS
Ralph Alswang 
James Aubrey Ralph Bellamy Leonard Bernstein Jerry Bock Ab Burrows Marge Champion Harold Ciurmar 
Betty Comden Cy Feuer Eileen Ford Adolph Green E. Y. Harburg Sheldon Harnick
Garson Kanin Sidney Kornheiser Alan Jay Lerner Goddard Lieberson Joseph Linhart Joshua Logan George Marek Ernest H. Martin 
Jerome Robbins Harold Rome Dore Schary Stephen Sondheim 
Jute Styne Robert Whitehead
NOEL BEHN,PRESIDENTPHILIP BURTON,
OIMECTO
FACULTY
SANFORD MEISNER - acting LEHMAN ENGEL - voice HANYA HOLM - dance
ACCELERATED SUMMER SESSION begins July t Fall Semester begins Sept. 23 Send for Information Bulletin:
MUSICAL AND DRAMATIC THEATRE ACADEMY OF AMERICA 
245 East 23rd Street, New York 10, New York 
Dept SC
I Director of Summer School, C. W. Post College, P.O., Greenvale, L.I., N.Y. 
* Please send me Summer Sessions information bulletin. :
I ? Womens Residence Hall ? Men's Residence Hall
J ? Undergraduate ? Graduate ? Day ? Evening
| Name.................................................................................................................................. J
J Address........................................................................................................................... l I City...........................................................................<:tate............................................. II 
I If visiting student, from which college?.................................................................. 
...............................................................................................4
Musical and Dramatic Theatre Academy
The Academy is devoted to the all-around prepara*tion of performers in the many and varied activities of the modern theatre. Since musicals form an everincreasing part of this activity, th* Academy is
uniquely geared to provide a coordinated and balanced program of instruction in acting, singing and dancing. Concomitantly, there is a complete School of Acting under the chairmanship of Mr. Sanford Meisner.
PKN!<S
CARNI VALThe Hi Lo's present entertainment Friday night.
Buggy pushers practice for their big event.
Walnut St. MU. 2-1901
C. W. POST COLLEGE
OF LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY - BROOKVILLE, LONG ISLAND, N.Y.
Member, The College BoardAccredited by Middle States Association
Now Accepting Applications for
TWO 5-WEEK SUMMER SESSIONS 
DAY & EVENING
June 24th to July 26th  July 29th to August 30th
NEW MENS and WOMENS RESIDENCE HALLS AVAILABLE
An exceptional blend of modern, superior educational 
and cultural facilities on a traditional 126-acre campus 
setting: this is C. W. Post College on the North Shore 
of Long Island, one hour from midtown Manhattan.
Nearby are famous beaches,'sailing clubs, 
summer stock theatres, parks, golf courses.
On-campus features include swimming, gymnasium, 
riding, bowling, theatre and concerts.
ACCELERATE YOUR DEGREE PROGRAM 
UNDERGRADUATE COURSE offerings include studies in 
Liberal Arts & Sciences, Pre-Professional, Pre-Engineer
ing, Business, Education, Dance Workshop.
GRADUATE COURSE offerings include studies in Biological 
Sciences, Education, English, Guidance and Counseling,
History, Library Science, Mathefnatics, Music Education 
ond Political Science.
DISTINGUISHED VISITING AND RESIDENT FACULTY 
OUTSTANDING LIBRARY FACILITIES
APPLY NOW ... Admission open to VISITING STUDENTS 
from other accredited colleges.
For additional information, summer bulletin and 
application, phone MAyfair 6-1200 or mail coupon
FREUD IS A 'TAUT, INTELLECTUAL 
THRILLER...VASTLY EXCITING!" TIME MAGAZINE
Freud IS "A BOLD, DRAMATIC, 
MOMENTOUS, TASTEFUL, DARING AND 
FASCINATING FILM THAT EVERYONE 
WILL ENJOY!" CROWTHER. N. Y. TIMES
FREUD "-BORN INTO A RESPECTABLE 
WORLD-TORE AWAY ITS MASK OF
SEXUAL INNOCENCE. ,______________,
NEVER AGAIN 
WOULD THE WORLD 
PRETEND THAT SEX 
DID NOT EXIST."N. Y. HERALD TRIBUNE
NOW
JOHNHUSTON'SAHOOtX 770* OrWEDNS
SHADYSIDE

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 1, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pagre J
Congress Presidential Nominees 
Pyke, Jackson Give Platforms
r)
Today, Student Congress has a sound 
foundation, and now it is our job to build 
upon it a more effective student govern
ment. I propose, as Chairman of Student Con
gress, to initiate a strong program in four 
major areas.
1. Strengthened committee activities. Each com
mittee should examine its responsibilities and ini
tiate additional projects to supplement or replace 
ineffective ones. I suggest that the following activi
ties be developed:
A freshman leadership conference held in the 
early fall to entice new students into campus activi
ties.
A review of activities forms from entering 
freshmen to help campus organizations rush pros
pective members.
Since all committees will be active, every person 
expressing interest in Congress, especially fresh
men, will be given something worthwhile to do.
2. More Constructive meetings. Committees 
should report frequently in Student Congress meet
ings. By such reports all members will be aware 
of the latest developments in Congress activities. 
The agenda will be published in advance of meet
ings so that more interest is aroused and attendance 
is increased.
3. Broadened communications. Communication 
between Congress and the student body definitely 
needs to be improved. A weekly column in the 
Tartan, an abstract of important activities and com
mentary on Congress, would increase student inter
est.
There should be closer contact with other camp
us organizations. Congress should provide addition
al service in all areas, such as membership sup
port and general publicity.
4. Better-defined relations with the school ad
ministration. Every committee working in area of 
joint responsibility with the administration should 
have its purposes and scope defined before prob
lems arise. When it becomes necessary for Con
gress or a committee to take a stand on an issue, 
this stand should be widely publicized.
In general, Student Congress is representative 
of the Students and should support their interests. 
It should expand on its service to the student body, 
especially in the areas I have outlined above. I 
commend the present and past Congresses and their 
leaders for laying a sound foundation, and I look 
forward to having the opportunity to build Stu
dent Congress into a strong efficiently run organiza
tion, one deserving the respect of the student body.
Tom Pyke
Tom Pyke, the present Vice-President of Stu
dent Congress, was, as a freshman, President of his 
dormitory, a member of Mens Dorm Council, and 
active on the Union and Freshman Orientation 
committees as a representative to Student Con
gress. He was Chairman of the Union Committee 
as a sophomore and this year has served as Vice 
Chairman of Student Congress and Chairman of the 
Rules Committee.
His activities outside of Congres have included 
Program Co-chairman of Freshman Camp, Chair
man of the Campus Conference on Religion, Secre
tary and Vice-President of PiKA, and SacretaryTreasurer of Delta Skull, the junior mens honor
ary. He has just been elected Secretary of ODK, 
the senior mens leadership honorary.
Student Congress must solve two major 
problems if it is to implement the authority 
it possesses. Primarily, it must develop a 
strong and responsible legislative body which 
has the support and cooperation of the stu
dents. At the same time, it must gain the 
confidence and cooperation of the Adminis
tration. The problems are so imtimately related 
that they must be treated as one. For Congress to 
exercise the full extent of its authority it must 
have the cooperation of the Administration, yet 
to gain this cooperation, Congress will have to meet 
its obligations both to the students and the Admin
istration. The next Chairman will have to lead Con
gress to this objective.
Congress will have to demonstrate that it is 
capable of governing the students as a first step in 
its development. Because it is responsible for every 
organization on campus, Congress must do more 
than merely offer recognition to groups on campus. 
I want to see Congress keep itself continually in
formed of the size and activities of campus groups 
so it can offer needed assistance to them. The ac
counting system which the Finance Committee is 
presently considering must be completed and put 
into effect next year. In this way financial needs 
may be met and organizations presently in financial 
trouble may be helped. In the past, Congress has 
not acted in cases of financial distress. The problem 
has gone unnoticed until the Administration has 
been forced to act. By means of an accounting 
system, Congress will know the current financial 
statue of each organization and will take appropri
ate action where necessary.
Another area in which I want to see sweeping 
improvements is communications. The campus 
should know what Congress is doing and where it 
is going. When representatives are not informed 
of impending action in advance so that both sides 
may be fully represented, Congress cannot hope to 
be the representative of the students. In addition, 
the campus must be informed as soon as possible of 
action taken at meetings. There must be feature 
articles in the TARTAN reporting what is to be 
proposed and what has been accomplished. News 
of what Congress is doing should be given to 
WRCT so that it can be reported in the stations 
newscasts. As Chairman. I will see that effective 
use will be made of these facilities so that students 
will know what their Congress is doing.
At the same time, the Chairman has to be the 
students spokesman to the Administration. It is his 
responsibility to win the Administrations approval 
for the measures passed by Congress. The amount 
of cooperation Congress receives from the Admin
istration will be a direct function of the Chairmans 
ability to present and defend its proposals before 
the Administration.
Once Congress has shown that it can meet its 
responsibilities to the campus and has gained the 
cooperation of the Administration, it can quit its 
defensive posture and take the offensive in pro
posing measures and recommending action to the 
Administration.
I have worked on Congress as a member for two 
years in which time I have served on the Constitu
tion and Finance Committees, Vice-Chairman of 
Spring Carnival, Treasurer of the Fall Festival and 
Chairman of the Finance Committee.
John Jackson
Econ Luncheon
An informal luncheon followed 
by a discussion session will be 
held Thursday, at 11:30 a.m. in 
the Blue Room of Morewood 
Gardens. Mrs. Sonia Gold of the 
economics department will be 
guest speaker.
Everyone is invited to attend.
Honoraries Election
Election of the activities honor
ary representative to Executive 
Council of Student Congress will 
be held Tuesday, May 7, at 4:30 
in room 46, Skibo.
CampuswithMaxShukan
(Author of / Was a Teen-age Dwarf, The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis, etc.)
John Jackson
BULLETIN 
BOARD jftr
HOW TO SEE EUROPE 
FOR ONLY $300 A DAY: NO. 2
Last week we discussed England, the first stop on the tour of 
Europe that every American college student is going to make 
this summer. Today we will take up your next stopFrance, 
or the Pearl of the Pacific, as it is generally called.
To get from England to France, one greases ones body and 
swims the English Channel. Similarly, to get from France to 
Spain, one greases ones body and slides down the Pyrenees, 
And. of course, to get from France to Switzerland, one greases 
ones body and wriggles through the Simplon Tunnel, Thus, as 
you can see, the most important single item to take to Euroi 
is a valise full of grease.
No. I am wrong. The most important thing to take to Europe 
is a valise full of Marlboro Cigarettesor at least as many a*
the customs regulations will allow. And if by chance you should 
run out of Marlboros in Europe, do not despair. That familiar 
red and white Marlboro package is as omnipresent in Europe 
as it is in all fifty of the United States. And it is the same 
superb cigarette you find at homethe same pure white filter, 
the same zestful, mellow blend of tobaccos preceding the filter. 
This gem of the tobacconists art, this prodigy of cigarette 
engineering, was achieved by Marlboros well-known research 
teamFred Soft,pack and Walter Fliptopand I, for one, am 
grateful.
But, I digress. We were speaking of Franceor the Serpent of 
the Nile, as it is popularly termed.
Let us first briefly sum up the history of France. The nation 
was discovered in 1066 by Madame Guillotine. There followed 
a series of costly wars with Schleswig-Holstein, the Cleveland 
Indians, and Jean Jacques Rousseau. Stability finally came to 
this troubled land with the coronation of Marshal loch, who 
married Lorraine Alsace and had three children: Flopsy, Mopsy, 
and Charlemagne. This later became known as the Petit Trianon.
Marshal Fochor the Boy Orator of the Platte, as he was 
affectionately calledwas succeeded by Napoleon, who intro
duced shortness to France. Until Napoleon the French were 
the tallest nation in Europe. After Napoleon most Frenchmen 
were able to walk comfortably under card tables. This later 
became known as the Hunchback of Notre Dame.
Napoleon, after his defeat by Credit Mobilier, was exiled to 
Elba, where he made the famous statement, Able was I ere I 
saw Elba. This sentence reads the same whether you spell it 
forward or backward. You can also spell Marlboro backward  
Oroblram. Do not, however, try to smoke Marlboro backward 
because that undoes all the pleasure of the finest cigarette made.
After Napoleons death the French people fell into a great fit 
of melancholy, known as the Louisiana Purchase. For over a 
century everyone sat around moping and refusing his food. 
This torpor was not lifted until Eiffel built his famous tower, 
which made everybody giggle so h&rd that today France is the 
gayest country in Europe.
Each night the colorful natives gather at sidewalk cafes and 
shout  Oo-la-la! as Maurice Chevalier promenades down the 
Champs Elysees swinging his malacca cane. Then, tired but 
happy, everyone goes to the Louvre for bowls of onion soup.
The principal industry of France is cashing travellers checks.
Well sir, I guess thats all you need to know about France. 
Next week we will visit the I^and of the Midnight SunSpain.
e 1963 Max Stiulmaa * 
Next week, every week, the beat cigarette you can buy thm 
whole iwrld over is filter-tipped Marlborooft pack or 
Flip-Top boxyou get a lot to like.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 1, 1963
Editorial
Our Future Chairman
There are only two qualified candidates 
running for the office of president of Student 
Congress. The following is an open letter to 
John Jackson arid Tom Pyke, candidates for 
this office.
Messrs. Jackson and Pyke:
We have asked you to state your plat
forms and qualifications for two reasons: 1) 
to give you a means to present your ideas to 
all members of Congress and 2) to provide 
any other prospective candidate with a fair 
chance to express himself.
You have both stated your objectives well, 
but we find many generalities in them. 
There are several controversial issues on this 
campus that require you to take a stand.
First is the problem of a larger budget 
for the individual activities. It is well known 
that Carnegie Tech does not financially sup
port its activities nearly as much as other 
top universities and institutions. Student 
Congress has clamored to the administration 
for more money in the past. Finally when 
the administration decided to support the 
Carnegie Technical as a prestige magazine 
for public relations, it gave Student Congress 
more money and earmarked it for the Tech
nical. Thus, it is fiction that Tech largely 
increased financial support to the various act
ivities this year, when, in fact, they did so to 
promote one organization, and for their own 
purpose. Do you feel that activities need
Readers Write
extra financial support? How would you, as 
president of Student Congress, propose to get 
more money from the school?
Next, you were vague in mentioning Con
gresss part in controlling the student activi
ties. Do you feel that it is the function of 
Congress to correlate the myriad activities? 
How large a part should Congress play in 
directing them? How can Congress serve as 
an influence to interest others in activities? 
The activities fair, held in past years, has 
proven unsuccessful. The fair resembled a 
disorganized birthday party and the activi
ties were restricted in recruiting new mem
bers until after the fair.
Also, you both mention broadened com
munications as a part of your platforms. If 
an article is to inform the student of actions 
both taken and pending in Congress, what 
should it contain; and who is to prepare it?
Finally, improving relations with our ad
ministration sounds good on paper, but how 
would you accomplish this task?
Your goals for Student Congress are wellstated. However, they are expressed super
ficially. Can you tell us explicitly what 
constructive action you will take? Generali
ties may make good campaigns, but they 
make poor presidents. The Tartan offers to 
print your reply in our next issue.
Miron L. Straf 
for the Tartan Editorial Board
Unhappy Whales, Amazons Protest
Whales Protest 
Tartan Neglect
Editor, The Tartan:
I never thought that the day 
would come when the TARTAN 
could be accused of news man
agement. Yet that is just what 
has happened. No mention was 
made in the Tartan about the 
Basketball Championship won by 
The Whales in the Intramural 
Minor Leagues. Is someone afraid 
that The Whales are another 
D.A.R., John Birch Society, or 
S.I.N.A.? Is that why news of 
them has been suppressed?
Lets set the record straight! 
The Whales are Carnegies great
est independent organization. Its 
objectives are friendship and 
sportsmanship. The Whales are 
pen to members of any race, 
creed, or color as long as he is 
not a member of the species pre
valent at Tech  Carnegie Techas 
Nerdus. Unfortunately, most stu
dents seem to fall in this category.
Since its birth last year, The 
Whales has grown to a dominant 
position in minor league sports. 
The future is bright as the Whales 
marches on to more fun amid the 
drabness of Carnegie Tech. I hope 
that the news of The Whales 
softball victories will not be with
held from the student body !
Name Withheld
Tech Men Assured 
Complete Safety
Editor, The Tartan:
* found Mr. McChesney's ob
jections to the location of the 
women's archery range interest
ing but rather strange.
Safety is the prime reason the 
present - location was chosen. 
First, the walk by the faculty 
parking lofr is well out of range 
of the bows used in class. Sec
ond, both the cut and the tennis 
courts run parallel, not perpen
dicular to the range. The chances 
of a person being hit by an 
arrow which is neither pointed 
at him nor can reach him are in
deed slim.
The danger element is intro
duced only when an occasional 
student, apparently believing the
rest of his body to be as im
penetrable as his head, dashes 
across the area while the women 
are shooting instead of waiting 
until the finish.
Use of the football area, on the 
other hand, would definitely be 
dangerous. Persons other than 
our students often use the tar
gets after school. Some of them 
are quite careless in hunting for 
lost arrows. A broken and par
tially buried arrow could cer
tainly be deadly if discovered by 
a falling football player or track 
man.
Mr. McChesney seems to think 
it extremely noble of Tech men 
to put up with women on the 
campus. He seems to find their 
participation in athletic activi
ties even more distasteful, be
lieving, no doubt, they undergo 
some metemorphic miracle 
which transforms them from at
tractive youn? women into 
brawny, disgusting Amazons 
the moment they dare to en
croach upon activities which 
should be left to the superior 
abilities of men.
These thoughts of Mr. Mc
Chesney and his final comment 
upon the scantiness of the gym 
uniforms prompt me to make an 
inquiry. In signing the letter, he 
identifies himself with the class 
of '66. Would that be 1866?
Mrs. William Hu 
Assistant Professor 
Womens Physical Education
Student Congress 
Reminded of Duty
Editor, The Tartan:
A word to you new members 
of Student Congress. Because 
you have been elected into office 
by the student body, it behooves 
you to keep in mind aHays the 
responsibility you bear to your 
constituency, as well as the gen
eral welfare of the student body 
whom you represent. It is indeed 
an honor for you. Our votes for 
you are our expressions of our 
confidence in you to seek and 
defend our interests. Your job 
may weigh you down with re
sponsibilities but we hope you
will have accepted them in good 
faith. We trust you will dis
charge them to the best of your 
ability  always acting as men 
and women of integrity.
We trust too that you will not 
be selfish and be unduly swayed 
by your affiliations to other 
groups. Narrow-minded insular
ity and devotion to fraternal 
affiliation is far from achieving a 
dynamic Student Congress. True, 
most people want to belong  
and to belong is nothing bad. 
The danger is when this be
longing, this loyalty becomes so 
ingrained into the personality 
that the individual becomes in
capable of making reasoned and 
impartial judgments.
Men are men when they can 
turn their backs on the crowd, 
assert themselves in a forthright 
manner and then do what is 
right and just  not what is 
merely legally permissible, for 
jthe spirit of the law can always 
T>e abused though the letter of 
law is still intact.
The record of the past Student 
Congress is not to be emulated, 
but must be surpassed. It may be 
no less surprising to you as it 
was to us, that 30% -of the elect
ed members of Student Congress 
lost their right to vote through 
inattendance at Student Con
gress meetings. Consider this in 
the light of the fact that 50% 
plus one constitutes a quorum 
of Student Congress.
Let not the ranks of Student 
Government degenerate into a 
mere bureaucratic leadership. 
We want you to be our leaders 
too, for if you fail us  if you 
betray your impotence to lead, 
we will greet you with jeers and 
sneers.
As our duly appointed leaders, 
you cannot escape our praise 
and criticism  and if our cri
ticisms fall heavily on your 
head, wont you accept in good 
graces. Jonathan Swift once said, 
Censure is the tax a man pays 
for being eminent.
Good luck to you in the com
ing year. Now get in there and 
fight, for us, and the glory of 
Carnegie.
Oiarles Hofook 
Chem. Eng. 64 
[continued, on page 9J
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Creativity
Recently I have conducted research into some of the 
characteristics of creative individuals including value judg
ments that such persons make. Four groups were tested: 
Drama, Math, and Architecture majors, and Margaret Mor
rison students. It was assumed, for the purpose of testing 
hypotheses, that the M.M. girls were, on the average, rela
tively less creative than the other groups. The aspects of the 
survey dealing with the girls will be discussed next week; 
this article deals with creative persons acceptance of, and 
agreement with, society and groups.
It was hypothesized that creative individuals are more 
able to resist group pressures and do not identify themselves 
with society or group goals as much as less creative per
sons tested thought they had many friends, but only a 
little more than Vz of the creative persons gave the same 
answer. Similar answers resulted from the second ques
tion  when asked which of 3 ways they would rather 
spend their time, the supposedly creative persons gave more 
individualistic answers; more than 1/5 preferred to take a 
walk by themselves compared to 1/6 of the less creative 
persons; 1/5 (creative) chose to go to a party as opposed to 
1/3. This evidence tends to show that creative persons do 
not rely on the support or advice of other persons or groups 
as much as others.
Other results of the questionnaire gave evidence to sup
port hypotheses that creative persons agree less with their 
parents politically than other do; that the majority is us
ually considered not right; that the form of government of 
the U.S. is not the best possible one (82% of the less crea
tive persons thought it is!); and that homesexuals should 
not be put in jail (almost half of the other group thought at 
least half of all homosexuals should be in jail). On the 
other hand, answers to one question contradicted the other 
evidencecreative persons seem to believe less strongly 
than others that othere are many sides to questions. All in 
all though, the evidence supports the hypotheses given at 
the beginning of the article.
What all this means is open to debate, but I believe that 
the evidence shows that creative talent can best be encour
aged by creating an atmosphere favorable to individual 
action, and that a group of persons should not always be 
thought superior to individuals alone. It would seem that 
diversity and freedom to act differently that the majority 
in a society encourages creativity. But perhaps the major
ity does not like creative ideas and innovations.
LNTmGR'nR
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8898; Advertising Manager, MU. 
29753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-8959. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Editor-in-Chief .............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor ................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Managing Editor ..............................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager ...................................Michael McCoy
News Editor ................................................Frank Brady
Assistant News Editor ..................................Alma Rock
Features Editor ........................................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor ..............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ..................................John Norris
Sports Editor .....................................................John Blue
Layout Editor .......................................Nancy Cameron
Secretarial Editor .........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ......... ........................Tom Johnson
Editorial Board: Peggy Ri\a. Margie Paik. Annie Moser, Charles Hofook, Martin 
Ackerman. Elaine Grumer, Fritz Klinke.
Photo: Aron Collins, Bill Jackson, Rus Stinebaugh.
Secretarial SU.ff: Carole Breuer, Ann Carten. Nancy Beth Jacobs. Leslie McKinley, 
Sue Sterhardt, Lorraine Vinograd, Mary Muir, Jenny Low, Carol Young. 
Jane Samuels.
News Staff: Margie Park, Bob Wohlford, Justin Polulack. Colin Jones. Marty 
Moore. Fay Landau. Gladys Stalinsky, Jay I.apidus, Elie Denberg. Miriam 
Gilespie, Marion Mulligan, Lois Riva, Sandy Lancaster, Ellen Hamill, Nancy 
Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Circulation: Gecrge Kali. Tom Glassberg
Feature Staff: Marion Mulligan. Jennifer Low. Marty Sauer. Martha Hodgson, 
Irene Grandberg, Aril Soule, Jeffrey Axelrad, Jane Keeler, Sut Crytzer, 
Bob Godt.
Copy Staff: Barbara Brown. Nancy Green, Jane Keeler, Mary Muier, Jane Sam
uels. Ginny Uliss. Verna Ream, Helen Beatty.
Layout Staff: Drew Lippay, Dick Elder, Tom Glassberg, Marion Mulligan, Su#
Stitt. A1 Pollock. Fritz Klinke. Holy Lawiance.
Sport Staff: Scott McCormick, Tom Terpack, Dick Elder, Ted Engelinan.

---------------------------------------------------

At Union National Bank, you can have a free personal checking account. 
Just keep a $200 balance. There's no service charge. No maintenance 
charge. No charge for new checks. No charge for deposits. Pay your 
bills the easy way. Stop In at your nearest Union National Bank office 
and open your free personal checking account. Come in today.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH
MAIN OFFICE: FOURTH AVENUE AT WOOD STREET 
AND: 4612 FORBES AVENUE, OAKLAND
MEMBER: FEDERAL RESERVE SVSTEM FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
were that the Ceilidh is a social 
organization and that it charges 
admission. As a regular attender 
of the Ceilidh since its creation 
I can say that these statements 
are absurd and could only have 
been written in complete ignor
ance of the nature of the Ceilidh. 
The Ceilidh has no membership 
restrictions and attracts weekly 
audiences of up to 200 persons 
from Pitt, Tech, Chatham and 
other schools. New people come 
each week  to play, sing, or 
listen, without charge. In fact, 
the Ceilidh has charged admis
sion only twice in two years for 
concerts featuring professional 
folksingers. I think that the 
the Ceilidh stands in refreshing 
contrast to the so-called open 
fraternity parties which are 
neither open nor free, as the 
high social fees of the members 
will show.
I know of no other social 
grouping, with the exception of 
WRCT and Morewood lobby, 
that prov;des regular entertain
ment to so many students. The 
requested money is to be used to 
increase the range of Ceilidh 
facilities, that is, for a tape li
brary and bulletin board. Con
sidering these plans and consid
ering the number of students 
that have enjoyed the Ceilidh 
for the last two years, the ap
proval of the Ceilidh appropri
ation seems to be a necessary 
action for an organization which 
claims to represent student in
terest.
David Wojick
Civil Engineering 64
Editors Note:
If the funds that may be ap
propriated to Ceilidh are to be 
used for a tape recorder and 
tapes, it would be more efficient 
for Student Congress to purchase 
the tape recorder. Other organi
zations can then make use of it. 
(SnS and WRCT) Surely, every 
organization that uses Congress 
ditto machine does not think of 
buying one themselves.
Dramat Blasts 
Library Policy
Editor. The Tartan:
This is an open letter of ob
jection and disgust. I have ex
perienced unpleasant dealings 
with The Rachael Miller McMaster Hunt Botanical Library 
(or some such derivative: its not 
in the C Book or phone book  
who knows?) before, but none 
that equal that which I will now 
relate.
While working on the produc
tion of Misalliance, I borrow
ed a costume book which I kept 
in a locked drawer in the cos
tume room in the Fine Arts 
building where I was working. 
Needless to say, I was somewhat 
distressed to find that, somehow, 
said book floated out of its lock
ed drawer, never to be seen 
again by me.
I thought it wise to search for 
the book, so while I did, The 
Rachel Miller McMaster Hunt 
Botanical Library kindly sent 
me an overdue notice. At once I 
explained the situation to them 
and they were most gentle, say
ing that I not only must pay for 
the book, but the fine as well, in 
addition to a $1.00 processing 
[continued on page 8]
mBH,BPU MPFB Cow'l
Advisor Answers 
Tartan Editorial
Editor, The Tartan:
In answer to last weeks edi
torial regarding the one hundred 
dollars in the proposed budget 
for the Ceilidh.
Carnegie Ceilidh, folk music 
society is Techs largest student 
activity, serving approximately 
175 students from the entire 
campus each Friday evening. 
The Ceilidh has never charged 
admission, nor has it ever received funds from the student 
government. Since its formation 
two years ago, the Ceilidh has 
sponsored three concerts, the 
first of which proved to be a 
financial loss and the last of 
which was free. The funds of the 
proposed budget in addition to 
the profits from the second con
cert will be used for the pur
chase of a tape recorder and
tapes to establish a permanent 
library of Ceilidh highlights for 
student listening and broadcast 
by WRCT. The Ceilidh has re
cently sponsored a new activity, 
a madrigal and recorder group, 
called Carnegie Concort. We 
feel these activities are import
ant on Techs campus and must 
be encouraged. Without suffi
cient funds and Student Con
gress support, it will be impos
sible to continue the Ceilidhs 
next year.
Howard Glasser 
Faculty Adivsor 
Carnegie Ceilidh
Reader Defends 
Ceilidh Request
Editor, The Tartan:
In the April 24 Tartan, the 
author or the editorial Vote No 
expressed the opinion that the 
Ceilidh should be denied its re
quested $100 in the forthcoming 
Student Congress budget. The 
apparent reasons for this opinion
Wednesday, May 1, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 3
Do you find yourself often thinking of the past? Neither do I, 
but, nevertheless, there are many interesting things that happened 
back then. On April 24th, 1913, it was noted that the Senior class of 
the School of Applied Science decided to adopt capsa nd gowns foe 
commencement. President Taft on the last day of his administration 
appropriated 250,000 out of 500,000 dollars to be used to erect a local 
station of the Bureau of Mines, C.I.T.s baseball team beat BuckneU. 
5-2. At the Grand Theater, wherever it was, Lillian Russell was ap
pearing in a vaudeville show. On May 1st, which was 50 years ago 
today, we find that the 17th Founders Day was held. The progress 
of the school was reported. The enrollment had increased to 2,798, an 
increase of 388 over last year. The first degrees were awarded last 
year (1912). There were 52 of them, given, along with 119 certificates. 
Mr. Carnegie could not come, unfortunately, but he did send a tele
gram with best wishes and it was read aloud. He signed it simply, 
Uncle John. It was decided that the first summer session would be 
held in 1913; however, classes would be held only in Margaret Morr
ison and the School of Applied Industry. Our baseball team lost t 
Duquesne 1-0, but had beaten Allegheny 4-2 and stomped Bethany 
10-0. And lastly it was reported, so sadly, that the Camera Club had 
died.
This Week in Pittsburgh
THURSDAY, MAY 2
Film Arts  Mr. Smith Goes to Washington (USA 
1939)
CONTINUING EVENTS
Fulton  I Could Go on Singing' Judy Garland,
Dirk Bogarde 
Penn  Nine Hours to Hama Horst Buchholz,
Diane Baker 
Warner  How the West Was Won
Gateway  To Kill a Mockingbird Gregory Peck
Middle class Americas current infatuation with the well-round
ed, or Renaissance man has, in leading us down the garden path, 
caused new weeds to grow in the garden. Sinclair Lewis sounded 
the alarm against provicialism and Babbittry, and then proceeded 
in his later novels to beat a good horse senseless. He could have an
other 25 year field day with todays bourgeosic intelligentsia.
The will to be well-rounded comes as much from the lead of so
ciety, as from an awareness of the usefulness of general knowledge. 
# For thousands of years the completely ignorant and the half educated 
specialist-artisan were content to remain oblivious. But the early 
proddings of Lewis and Menchen, and today the subtilties of Leonard 
Bernstein and Mrs. Kennedy, cause yesterdays happy man, watching 
television in a sleeveless T-shirt with a beer in his hand, to become 
conscience-stricken. He still watches the fights on TV, and his tastes 
in smoking jacket and after dinner liquor are unchanged, but he feels 
he must subscribe to the Saturday Review and Fruit of the Month
club to completely enjoy life.
From the beginnings of society there has been mass culture 
of the bread-and-circus variety, but only recently has there arisen 
in the middle classes (whoever they may be) the drive for higher 
culture. The samedrives appear in many of the upper classes since 
class status today is most often the status of money. We can see 
many experts who have bought rather than earned their expertise.
Sitting *in the living room of a culture faddist one is besieged by 
the elements of his pretensions. At the office he lords the secretaries 
and the mail girl with his big words, and dominates the Kiwanis 
meetings with his allusions to Papal Encyclicals. In his home the 
bases of his promiscuous interests are laid bare. He is a literatus: he 
has read at least one of the Book of the Month Books every month 
^ and has struggled through War and Peace abridged edition. He is a 
moralist, trained on Norman Vincent Peale and apothegms from the 
Saturday Evening Post. As a historian he is unsurpassed because he 
almost finished Rise and Fall of the Third Reich (let us say hes 
more expert on the rise than the fall). His acquaintance with music 
is from his record collection which, though Lester Lanin and Mantovani, does include Beethovens Fifth Symphony, the New World 
Symphony, Bolero, and 1812 (all four on one sampler record, of 
course).
It is more just to indict the whole cult than to twit one poor 
member. Mass culture advances a notch and, by suitable changes, is 
now the businessmans patrician culture. Yet there is no remedy since 
^ there is no real problem. It is not too bothersome to listen to warmedover Rachel Carson at lunchtime or to endure plaudits for Peter Nero.
Anyway it keeps them off the streets and in their T-shirts.
50 TEARS0 TODAY
% Q c/jfler'BurtConservative Vistas
By Robert E. Godt
Diatribe of 
The Week Club
theyoungmanwhostripeshistieswears
CRICKETEER*
suits
He instantly recognizes the Cricketeer way in traditional suits. 
Neat (Fall-Jook) herringbone patterns for Summer, in shirtweight," 
a no-weight blend of Dacron* polyester and cotton thats always 
cool, calm, clean-cut. Colored in the new great light way. Crick
eteer tailored, naturally, along leaner lines. $55.00
See our colfechon of authenllc rep stripf fies, $2.50
Site (tarty Momt
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave, Squirrel Hill
Phone 521-7600
Ope* TntsAiT nd Thursday evenings util 9:M

---------------------------------------------------

Pace   CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. May 1, ms
Ellis Replaces Sivank As 
Acting Dean of Men, 63-64
Dr. G. Mark Ellis, of Techs history department, will be
come the acting Dean of Men for the academic year of 1963-64. 
He will temporarily replace Dean Earl Swank, who plans to 
spend the year completing his doctorate at the University 
cf Pittsburgh.
Dr. Ellis has been a member of the history department 
since 1955. He received his BA^
at Yale in 1943, his MA and PhD gorOritieS Await
at Harvard  in 1952, and spent 
three years in the army before 
coming to Tech. Dr. Ellis has been 
interested and active in student 
activities since his arrival at Tech. 
He is faculty advisor to both Mor
tar Board and ODK and has 
served as faculty resident for the 
mens dormitories since 1961. In 
the coming year, Dr. Ellis will 
continue to hold the position of 
Faculty Dorm resident as well as 
continuing to teach two courses 
in history.
Dean Swank came to Carnegie 
in 1948 as Instructor in the Eng
lish Department. In 1950 he was 
promoted to Assistant Professor 
and in 1956 was appointed Chair
man of the Committee on Finan
cial Aid to Students. He was ap
pointed Dean of Men in 1959. 
Dean Swank is a graduate of 
Muhlenberg College and was 
awarded his MA in English from 
Harvard. Work toward his PhD 
at Pennsylvania was started pre
viously.
Skit Winners
[continued from page 1] 
included a maximum oi four songs 
each.
Apha Epsilon Phi chose Lil 
Abner to present Patty Murray, 
Delta Delta Delta chose Guys 
and Dolls for June Helmers 
Delta Gamma presented Rital 
Hickman in Damn Yankees, 
Kappa Alpha Theta chose Can 
Can for Tita Hershner, Kappa 
Kappa Gamma selected Call Me 
Madam with Diana Dayton, Sig
ma Kappa presented Dinah Ma
thias to Pajama Gace and Chi 
Omega used Annie Get Your 
Gun to present Carole Dennison.
Skit winners will be announced 
Saturday evening at the Spring 
Carnival Dance. Judges consid
ered such points as originality, 
appropriateness, costumes, gimics, 
props, and queen candidate in 
rating the skits.
Ande Lapitski
Plays Maggie 
In Brigadoon
Shown here reheasing for her 
role as Maggie in the forthcoming 
Glenshaw Players production of 
"BRIGADOON is Miss Andrea 
Lapitski, vivacious Carnegie Tech 
freshman. BRIGADOON will be 
given at 8:30 p.m. Friday and Sat
urday, May 3 and 4, in the audi
torium of Shaler High School, Mt. 
Royal Blvd., Glenshaw.
Ande, who lives at 418 Marzolf 
Road, Pittsburgh 9, will dance 
the traditional Piobrochead, or 
Funeral Dance. This is a ritual 
of mourning and is danced to the 
sound of the Pipes and Scottish 
Drums. Ande is a Freshman in 
Home Economics at Tech, a cham
pion baton twirler, and a com
mercial artist. This is her second 
season with the Glenshaw Play
ers, having danced in their pro
duction of South Pacific last 
year. She also played the Wicked 
Witch of the West in the Players 
Childrens Theatre production of 
The Wizard of Oz.
Shown with her is her co-star, 
Mr. Alfred Hutter, teacher at 
Shaler High School, who plays the 
role of Harry Beaton.
S. GREEN
III Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
:
f  I
v i-', |
,w * .. < :
a
Ande Lipitski and Alfred Hutter rehearse for Brigadoon.
Boys night out?  Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack .  . or Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318
DONT BE A BEAST OF BURDEN
dragging your winter 
clothes back home...
It just doesnt make sense to go through all the fuss and 
bother, and expense, of taking your winter clothes home. 
You'll only have to repeat the process when you return, 
come Fall !
Play it smart and safe. Store your garments with us the 
economical Box Storage wyay ! Our jumbo box holds up to 25 
garments. Simply fill it with such wearables as woolen skirts, 
shirts, slacks, sweaters, jackets. Well do the rest  drycleaning, storing, insuring everything, and pressing every 
item right before delivery in the Fall !
Our Convenient BOX STORAGE 
costs You less than 2c a day!
li L 
JBULU EBT BINE B OAIIE BR LDB B CaE 
ONTU LnA ULaICaRC CREdNAaIlIei dnaReA 
Dnldn EBTtC OaE, aIEDaEh rBLnlIe LB 
OaE tLlNN kaNNh
snA GBNSU FadS nBHA DlNN FA HlenLE 
eNaC GBR LnA AYLRa dNBUAL UOadA. JaNN 
BR UAA TU aFBTL TUlIe BTR yBY oLBRaeAi
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4909 FORBES STREET
Open Daily 8 A.M. to 8 P.M.MU. 1-1288

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 1, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 7
Mayor Barr addresses interested DU's.
Mayor Barr Speaks to DU 
On Present Political Problems
^ Mayor Joseph Barr was the dinner guest of DU on Mon
day, April 22. After dinner, the Mayor addressed the broth
ers of various political topics. The Mayor began by recall
ing his rise from student politics at Pitt to his present posi
tion. He than described the general goals of his urban re
development program, and explained the North Side stadium 
and mass transit controversies. In a response to questions, he 
described the difficulties Kennedys ?---------------------------------------------------
legislative program will face in 
the house and expressed the 
opinion that many of Governor 
^ Scrantons difficulties are due to
* inexperience and lack of compe
tency among his advisors. In an
swer to a question concerning the 
frequently made accusation that 
Mayor Barr was backed by the 
machine,' he pointed out that a 
politicians supporters are called 
an organization as long as he is 
out of office, but become a ma
chine as soon as he enters office. 
He concluded with a discussion of 
the great improvements the Oak%, land Corp. is going to bring to the 
Oakland area.
44Patterns..
SalesBegin
Its different from last year, 
and the year before that, and the 
year before that, says Elizabeth 
(Hall, sophomore technical writ
ing major, talking about Pat
terns . . . And shes right. She 
and Liesse Chable, sophomore 
drama major, editors of Techs 
literary arts magazine, have been 
doing more than organizing a 
publication. They have been 
fighting to keep Patterns . . 
alive.
The trouble began when an
other publication named Pat
terns . . .protested to the edi
tors that Techs magazine had 
copied its title. But the staff 
refused to change the name that 
had been established three years 
ago, and finally solved the prob
lem by adding dot, dot, dot, to 
the title. Thus the new Pat
tern . . came into being.
This year thirty-six pages of 
poems, prose, one act of a play, 
drawings, and a musical score 
\*re included in the magazine. All 
erf the work printed has been 
created by Tech students. No 
general theme was attempted this 
year, Elizabeth says, but we 
feel that we have an interest
ing and unusual publication. 
The edition was printed by 
Herbick and Held, Pittsburgh, 
and the cover, a drawing by 
Stanley Rosenthal, a junior P and 
D, was printed at Tech. Liesse 
dds, This edition is a printers 
work of art. Barry Shane, who 
planned the pages, has done an 
excellent job.
Sales begin tomorrow for the 
new Patterns . . For sixtyfive cents the magazine can be 
purchased at stations around 
campus. Patterns . . . will also 
occupy a booth on the Carnival 
midway.
Rare Paintings 
On Display
One hundred one masterpieces 
of American primitive painting, 
from the Collection of Colonel 
Edgar William and Bernice 
Chrysler Gargisch, will be on 
view at the Department of Fine 
Arts, Carnegie Institute from 
April 16 through May 15, 1963. 
The paintings, including nineteen 
lent by the National Gallery of 
Art in Washington, were selected 
from almost 2500 works in this 
important collection and are be
ing shown in leading museums 
throughout the United States. 
Many have never been publicly 
displayed until this exhibition 
began its tour at the Metropolitan 
Museum of Art in New York City.
This exhibition provides an 
extraordinary opportunity to 
evaluate the work of our Amer
ican primitive painters and offers 
an interesting historic documenta
tion of early life in America. The 
scope of the show traces the de
cades from the early 18th Cen
tury through the American Revo
lution and the 19th Century with 
renderings of prominent families 
among them the Ten Eycks, Sar
gents, and others; numerous real
istic portraits rich in historic cos
tume, gentre scenes, picturesque 
farms, quiet landscapes, peaceful 
villages, and seaside vistas. His
toric moments are depicted, such 
as Washington reviewing his 
troops at Fort Cumberland, Mary
land; General Custers last stand 
in 1876; the battle of New Orleans; 
and the encounter between the 
Merrimac and the Monitor in 
1862
A particular significance of 
these primitives is that they mir
ror the life, customs, and gen
eral appearance of our ancestors 
and their world. The provincial 
painters, many of whom were men 
of modest local ambitions engaged 
in other trades and lacked aca
demic training, painted with an 
innocent eye and unfettered hand. 
These self-taught painters wanted 
to try to record their observations 
in their own way as best they 
could. Thus, the American primi
tive artists preserved the spirit of 
their time. The peculiar charm of 
these works sometimes results 
from what are technical inadequa
cies from the academic point of 
view  distortion and curiously 
personal perspective  but the 
works reflect the pleasure of 
painting and are beautiful for 
their imagination, unity and 
power.
Tech Receives 
Govt Grant 
For Studies
For the second time within a 
year, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology has been chosen by the 
United States government to con
duct a cooperative curriculum de
velopment program with selected 
area high schools.
The new program, Project So
cial Studies, is supported by a 
grant of $250,000 from the Office 
of "Education of the Department of 
Health, Education, and Welfare, 
and is aimed at the development 
of a sequential and cumulative 
curriculum in the social studies 
for able high school students. Last 
April, Tech received $220,000 
from the Office of Education for 
a similar program in English 
known as Project English. The 
new program is slated to begin 
on May 1 and continue for slightly 
more than four years.
According to Dr. John R. Cole
man, dean of the Division of Hu
manities and Social Sciences at 
Carnegie Tech and project super
visor, During the last five years, 
scholar-teachers from both uni
versities and secondary schools 
have stressed increasingly the 
need for such curriculum reform. 
The major associations of scholars 
from the universities, the National 
Council for the Social Studies, 
and a number of journals in the 
field have all urged new ap
proaches to history and the social 
sciences in the schools. Our job 
is to find and begin using these 
new approaches in cooperation 
with high school teachers in the 
Pittsburgh area.
The permanent staff tor the 
project will consist of Dr. Cole
man, project supervisor; Dr. Ed
win Fenton, who has worked 
closely with the Pittsburgh Public 
Schools in Advanced Placement 
over the last four years, Carnegie 
Institute of Technology project di
rector; and Dr. Alfred Hall, as
sistant professor of psychology, 
Carsegie Institute of Technology, 
project evaluator.
This staff will work in coopera
tion with at least twenty teachers 
from the Pittsburgh Public 
Schools. It is expected that Car
negie Techs experience with Ad
vanced Placement and Project 
English will prove to be an in
valuable aid to this staff.
Hopefully, the project will have 
a three-fold effect on the teaching 
of the social studies:
1. The development of entirely 
new materials, particularly for 
the ninth, tenth, and twelfth 
grades, which can be adopted un
changed for able students in any 
section of the country and can 
probably be adapted for the use 
of average students as well. 1
2. The development of tested 
evaluating instruments to accom
pany these new materials.
3. The development and demon
stration through the classroom 
and through comprehensive teach
ers manuals of ways of teaching 
the mode of inquiry of the social 
scientist and historian, of induc
tive approach to teaching, and of 
the use of new technology.
As with Project English, most 
of the summer conferences will be 
spent preparing courses to be used 
in the next academic year and 
evaluating and revising courses 
used is the last academic year. As 
each course is produced it will be 
tested in seven classes in five 
Pittsburgh high schools. The par
ticipating high schools are Taylor 
Allderdice, Peabody, South Hills, 
Perry, and Langley. During the 
first year of the project five teach
ers and about 200 students will 
be involved. During the fourth 
year the project will include 
twenty twenty teachers and as 
many as 1200 students.
Since the start of the Advanced 
Placement program in 1959, Car
negie Tech and the Pittsburgh 
Public Schools have pioneered in 
this crucial area of educational re
search and development through 
university-high school cooperaIcontinued on page 10]
Group Meets To Discuss 
Campus And Its Problems
Over the past year and a half, 
a group of student leaders has 
been meeting periodically with 
members of the faculty and ad
ministration to discuss the nature 
of our campus community and 
some of its problems. One result 
has been an increased awareness 
of how little concrete information 
there is about the attitudes and 
aspirations of those who make up 
the community, about the way in 
which it breaks down into sub
groups and how these interact 
with each other, and about the 
kinds of pressures that are ex
erted upon individuals and groups 
both from within the campus com
munity and from outside of it. It 
became apparent that effective 
efforts to improve the educational 
program and the atmosphere of 
campus life required a good deal 
more accurate knowledge of the 
prevailing situation than is now 
available.
From this realization there de
veloped general support for a 
long-range, comprehensive study 
of the campus community. During 
the fall four of the nations lead
ing authorities on studies of this 
sort were brought to Carnegie
Tech to discuss the feasibility of 
such an undertaking, the best 
methods of approaching it, and 
the problems that might be en
countered in carrying it out.
Within the next month the first 
steps will be taken in a process 
that promises to provide students, 
faculty, and administration with 
a better understanding of the Car
negie Tech community. A young 
sociologist recently added to the 
staff of GSIA will concentrate his 
research efforts in this area. As 
we move along in this work, 
others will join him. Early in May 
most full-time undergraduate stu
dents will be asked to participate 
in a survey of student attitudes 
and activities covering a broad 
spectrum of campus life. In the 
years ahead, students, faculty, 
and administrators probably will 
be asked to participate in a num
ber of special studies designed to 
elicit information on various as
pects of life at Carnegie Tech. 
The ultimate objective is to make 
Tech a better place at which to 
study and to live. We think this 
is an objective everyone on the 
campus will support. I hope that 
each of you will help.
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
NO ugmsmrw p!pWs ygWypWo
125 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
Speed Stick, the deodorant for men! Really helps 
stop odor. One neat dry stroke lasts all day, goes 
on so wide it protects almost 3 times the area of 
a narrow roll-on track. No drip, never tacky!
Fast! Neat! Man-size! Mennen Speed Stick!
gNN lL LaSAU lU BIA dNAaI ULRBSA CalNEh
>

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 1,
Honorary Calls ODK Selects Eight Juniors;
Sixteen Men
To Membership
Last week Richard Fergusan, 
the president of Delta Skull, an
nounced that sixteen men have 
been chosen to replace outgoing 
members of the junior mens 
honorary.
John Blue, Jerry Cross, Butch 
Davis, Eric Erinrich, Dave Fran
cis, Tom Johnson, John Kurtz, 
Gary Lindstrom, Peter Mangarella, Ben Porter, Keith Pierce, 
Roger Powell, Joe Sandulli, Wil
liam VonTwistern, Henry Werronen. and Tony Williams were 
selected on the basis of partici
pation, leadership, and scholar
ship during the past school year, i
This year Delta Skull under
took as their main function the 
encouragement of varsity ath
letics at Carnegie Tech. They 
also were instrumental in plan
ning and leading Candidates 
Day.
Next years junior mens hon
orary members will select sev
eral projects in hopes of encour
aging more vigiorous participation 
in Techs activities, many of 
which are in dire need of peo
ple with leadership capabilities.
Stresses Campus Participation
Last week the senior mens 
honorary, Omicron Delta Kappa, 
called eight outstanding juniors 
for next years membership. The 
following were selected on the 
basis of their scholastic perfor
mances and participation and 
leadership in campus activities 
and organizations:
Richard Ferguson, Henry Gal
liot, John Jackson. Robert Mer
cer, Thomas Pyke, Jack Scholl, 
Miron Straf, and Joseph Thomas.
The members immediately 
elected next years officers. Henry 
Galliot is the new president; Jack 
Scholl, vice-president; Tom Pyke, 
secretary; and Rich Ferguson, 
treasurer.
Each year the senior mens hon
orary undertakes a project to en
courage participation in campus 
activities. This year the mem
bers choose thirty freshmen who 
on the basis of their distinguished 
records and past achievements, 
show special capacity for lead
ership on the Tech Campus. They 
were invited to a meeting on 
March 30, at which Mr. Craig 
Fabian of Westinghouse Electric 
Corporation spoke about full pro
fessional preparations. Mr. Fabi
an impressed the freshmen and 
seniors present with the impor
tance of entering into school ac
tivities as an integral part of 
preparation for an engineering 
career. After the talk a general 
discussion took place. Later on
Henry Galliot
that week one of the nine Omi
cron Delta Kappa members 
visited with each of the chosen 
freshmen to discuss the oppor
tunities for leadership here at 
Tech.
Thanks to the retiring ODK 
members and may their new re
placements take on a project 
equally as worthwhile.
Readers Write Continued
Reader Defends 
Student Stealing
time. I was assured that I did 
not have to pay the fine for, We 
cannot send out notices until the 
book is returned . . . and ob
viously this one wasnt.
[continued from page 5] 
fee. At that point I had no 
money with which to pay the 
grand total, but they assured me 
that there would be no further 
fine, since the book could be re
newed.
This was fine. I had resigned 
myself to paying about $7 or $8 
for the book. I finally acquired 
the money I needed for this 
transaction, and I proudly 
marched to The Rachel Miller f 
McMaster Hunt Botanical Li
brary to empty my coffers be
fore them.
What is the name of the 
books?, they said.
Historic Costume by Lester,
I said.
Do you know the number? 
they said.
No, I dont, I said.
Look it up in the card 
catalog.
This was almost adding in
sult to injury, so when they 
wouldnt accept my check, I re
solved firmly to pay the bill in 
pennies.
Now, I am not an overly im
patient person, but when I re
ceived another overdue notice, I 
began to seethe.
I finally arrived at The 
Rachel Miller McMaster Hunt 
Botanical Library one evening, 
cash in hand, and paid the bill. 
Since it was only $5.50, I asked 
if there wasnt some mistake, for 
I didnt want anything more to 
do with the whole mess by this
I was overjoyed! It was done! 
Never again would I be plagued 
by red tape and unsure libra
rians who keep no records !
. . . But . . . about two days 
ago I received a notice which 
said:
391L64 (3) Lester Historic
Costume Second Notice Fine 
$1.80.
Should I pay? Why? It seems 
fishy to me. No wonder people 
steal rather than borrow from 
The Rachael Miller McMaster 
Hunt Botanical Library: even a 
conscience is less persistent than 
these people.
Bonnie Austin 
Drama, 1964
Classified Ads
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel
ling errors corrected.
DANCE MUSIC  The Leo Almaa 
Combo. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
Nice 4-room bath furnished apt. for rent 
for summer up to 4 male students. Nice 
neighborhood, plenty parking. Light and 
airy trunk room. Call after 2:00 JA. 1- 
2497.
1 room with large home near campus 
for 1 or 2 women. Meals optional. MU. 
3-3239.
FOR SALE: 1957 Pontiac 4-door hard
top; tripower, hydramatic, radio, heater, 
power brakes. High milage but spot
less condition. $500.00 or best offer. Hugh 
Young; MMCC 110. Campus phone 450, 
home phone 683-0386.
YRGAONYS NIOD 
-naAOmRSmells so good because it tastes so good.
I^Gc^G c^NYA cool-burning English type tobacco, 
distinctively aromatic.
MEnARETII -naAOmRSuperbly mild and aromatic, never burns hot.
c^GGnC^mc
A smooth, mellow cool burning mixture with subtle .taste and aroma.
THIS IS THE FAMOUSCustom Pack!
Six choice pipe tobaccos
EASY WAY TO FIND 
A NEW FAVORITE!
DmOoE NmRRYUniquely full bodied and rich tasting, yet pleasingly mild.
'mRRGDmnRmMenthol cool and mild with real tobacco taste.
Look what you get6 different, wonderful pipe tobaccos 
in one handy sample package! What easier way is there 
to become a tobacco connoisseur? You get only the 
finest premium blends you can buy. No ordinary pipe 
tobaccos here! Each blend is chosen for mild taste and 
pleasing aroma. Each blend has its own special some
thing" to give you a thoroughly satisfying smoke. 
Enjoy each one by itself or experiment! Mix different 
blends anyway you like for an exciting change of pace!
SAVE MONEY! Special Get Acquainted Offer!
CUSTOM PACK REGULAR PRICE *249 
NOW ONLY,?l98
HurryI Offer good only while supply lasts!
Go to any tobacconist or druggist near the campus

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 1, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Fase t
OUR "346" SPRING SPORTWEAR 
featuring new oxford weave tropicals
Our Spring sportwear selections, de
signed and tailored on our good-looking 
models for the younger man, are out
standing. Newest and most important in
novation is our exclusive oxford weave 
tropical material in sport jackets and Odd 
Trousers, that has surface interest and 
subtle colorings unobtainable heretofore. 
Youll like, too, the new designs and col
orings in our lightweight worsted jackets.
346 Sport JaiketSy $60 to $75 
"346 Odd Trousers, $25 to'$29.50
BSTAkilSHiO 1
Wens Furnishings, Hats Shoes
-?? Delta,lndi OSnur yM1u Dl9ta OSnut6lttD3C1ya r gO
NEW YORK  BOSTON  CHICAGO * LOS ANCELFS  SAN FlUNClSCO
* * * STARS AND STRIPES * * *
You call the play with Twin-Stick Floor Shift has Instant Overtake.
 Photos by Aron CollonsI'll make two happy at once!
ITS A GAS!
(and easy on it)
This is quite a car... the Rambler American 440-H 
Hardtop. Clean lines and a sporty flair. Looks that 
say go. A power plant that has the message, plus 
saving ways with a tank of gas.
Plenty of people room. Buckets, console, and 
138-hp engine standard. Twin-Stick Floor Shift 
adds lots of action at little cost.
Rambler prices are tagged to save you money. 
And you keep saving after you own one. More serv
ice-free. Muffler and tailpipe designed to last at 
least as many years as the original buyer owns the 
car. Double-Safety Brakes (self-adjusting, too) and 
a host of other solid Rambler features. Why not see 
and drive a Rambler soonat your Rambler dealer.
RAMBLER63
Winner of Motor Trend Magazine Award:
CAR OF THE YEAR"
Come see me, 
I'm simply marvelous.Wait til I qet comfortable.

---------------------------------------------------

Pafft 1  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 1, 1963
[continued from page 7] 
tion. Recently Tech and the Publlic Schools received two grants 
totaling $110,000 from The A. W. 
Mellon Educational and Charit
able Trust and the National Sci
ence Foundation for an Advanced 
Placement program in chemistry, 
biology and mathematics.
Another closely related project, 
which has already started, but 
whose result wont be seen until 
September, 1963, is the part-time 
teacher project preparing house
wives with a B.A. or M.A. degree
studies teachers in the Pittsburgh 
high schools. The project has de
veloped successfully and the con
cept has opened a new approach 
to the problems presented by the 
shortage of excellent teachers.
In the Advanced Placement 
areas of Project English, and 
Project Social Studies only, 
Carnegie Tech and the Pittsburgh 
Public Schools now have funds 
totaling almost $600,000 for edu
cational research and develop
ment.
SHOES SHOES
WALLYS
JaHOTU  kaBRAC
SHOES
Women
SMART CASUALS
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
HUSH - PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAGIC 
FLORSHEIM
3612 FORBES AYE.U.S. KEDS
(Across from Strand Theater)
Engineering Trainees
EARN UP TO *6500
Night school students with over two years and 
grade average of at least 2.5.
ENGINEERING. MATH, 
AND PHYSICS MAJORS
Employment as laboratory assistants in an Aeroresearch program.
CALL-CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1-8926 
4150 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh 22
Tech And Local High Schools 
Work On Humanities Program
otf CAa+*y>ryUUnited States Rubber
Reskf*llr Canter, New York 20, N. Y.
Spend
Cameron Choir Girls Wear 
New Costumes On Call Day
Spring Carnival will mark the debut of a new addition 
to the Cameron Choir. The girls in the chair, led by Marty 
Siegel, have made outfits for themselves. The Choirs plaid, 
formerly seen in only the boys jackets, is now to be proudly 
displayed in skirts and over-the-shoulder sashes which the 
girls will first wear for a program on call day. The choir will 
sing selections from My Fair Lady and West Side Story. 
The Cameron Choir is composed f
of about 55 members representing 
all departments of Carnegie Tech. 
On campus it presents one con
cert in the fall and one in the 
spring. It also presents afternoon 
and evening concerts in high 
schools and auditoriums in con
nection with the public relations 
department of C. I. T. Under the 
direction of Mr. Richard Camp 
and accompanied by Miss Marilyn 
Taft, this years Cameron Choir 
presented a program including 
two spirituals, a Randall Thomp
son anthem, Brazilian Psalm, 
selections from The King and I, 
and several others. The choir is 
now preparing for its spring con
cert to be held May 17, which will 
feature Howard Hansens Drum 
Taps and J. S. Bachs Motet 
No. VI.
Next year the choir expects to 
go to Chicago for a weekend to 
sing for alumni and friends and to 
give several more concerts in the 
area. With the addition of the at
tractive new choir costumes, the 
girls will provide a pleasing visual touch to an already pleasing 
sound.
SENIORS and ENGINEERS
Looking for Work!
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associafes 
976 Union Trust Bldg. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319
W illiams Is 
Named T o Nasa 
Committee
Dr. Edward M. Williams, pro
fessor and head of the depart
ment of electrical engineering at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
has been named to a special ad
visory committee of the National 
Aeronautic and Space Adminis
tration.
Dr. Williams, who holds many 
important patents in radio, ra
dar, and spark machining, will 
serve on NASAs Research Ad
visory Committee on Communica
tions Instrumentation, and Data 
Processing. He is one of fifteen 
distinguished scientists and en
gineers from industry and edu
cation named to work with 
NASA personnel on the commit
tee. The group will hold its first 
meetings on Thusrday and Friday, 
April 25 and 26, in Washington.
Dr. Williams received a Bache
lor of Engineering and his Ph.D. 
degree from Yale University. 
During World War II, he re| ceived the Presidents Certificate 
; of Merit for outstanding fidelity 
and meritorious conduct in aid of 
j the war effort. He has been at 
! Carnegie Tech since 1945 and has 
been head of the electrical engi
neering department since 1952.Thy
Pennies
Ml rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Hall on your 
close-to*campus entertain
ment schedule.
Helene Carrell - Nationally known 
Handwriting Analyst Appearing 
Nightly
kotet WeJwt&o \M
4415 Fifth Avsnvt Pittsburg* 13, Pa. Tl*pho*: MAyflow*r 1-7700
for perfect footwork and comfort
Professionally designed by and for top-flight tennis 
players. Featuring a flexible arch for comfort; an 
abrasion-resistant sole that stands up to any playing 
surface; laces to the toe to insure perfect fit, complete 
support. Fully cushioned, heel to toe. About $8.50.
LOOK FOR THE KEDS LABEL
IS
HIDING
Girls model new outfits for admiring male companions.
U.S.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 1, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 11
SAVINGS EARN 
LIBERAL 
DIVIDENDS
of wmmm
 Save by mail. We pay postage and provide lree envelopes, too.
 Save by the 10th earn from the first.
 All savings insured up to S1CI,000.
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO . ELECTRIC CO. 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
RENT NEW CARS... AND SAVE UP TO
SHARE TRANSPORTATION COSTS ON YOUR NEXT 
DATE! IT'S CHEAPER THAN USING TAXI-CABS!
No rentals under age 21. For ages 21 to 25 there is a 20% additional charge and a cash deposit is required. Please note. Other car 
companies do not rent to drivers under 25.
BUDGET RENT-A-CAR AY ,M1196NE3Ju MneH
609 Bigelow Blvd. lAcross from the Corlton House) Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
Phone: tigveetd
Gasparella Is 
New Coach
Joe Gasparella, former Notre 
Dame and professional football 
star, has been appointed head 
football coach at Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology. The an
nouncement was made today by 
Dr. J. C. Warner, president, and 
becomes effective immediately.
Mr. Gasparella, a native of 
Vandergrift, Pa., starred for Vandergrift High School before en
rolling at the University of Notre 
Dame in 1944. He played three 
seasons for the Fighting Irish be
fore entering the armed services 
in 1946. From 1946 to 1948, Gas
parella coached football at the 
United States Army Aberdeen 
Proving Grounds.
Upon completion of his tour of 
duty, he returned to Notre Dame 
to complete his education and in 
1949 assisted the quarterbacks at 
the school. For three seasons he 
played for the Pittsburgh Steelers, 
then coached by Johnny Michelosen, and played one season for 
the Chicago Cardinals under 
Curly Lambeau. Since leaving 
Notre Dame, he has scouted op
ponents for his alma mater, and 
two years ago he assisted Eddie 
Hirshberg on a part-time basis. 
For the past two years, he has 
also served as a part-time in
structor in the department of 
architecture at Carnegie Tech.
Dr. Warner, in making the an
nouncement, said, Mr. Gasparellas close association with Car
negie Tech, both as a faculty 
member and part-time assistant 
in football, has given him the 
opportunity to acquire an under
standing of Carnegie Techs ath
letic policy. He has exhibited the 
leadership and understanding of 
students we think especially nec
essary in our athletic program. I 
am very happy he has consented 
to acept this position.
While Gasparella will be em
ployed on a part-time basis, as 
were Eddie Baker and Eddie 
Hirshberg, his presence on the 
campus because of his position on 
the faculty should be an asset to 
his duties as coach.
Athletic Director Mel Cratsley, 
commenting on the appointment, 
said, We are fortunate that Joe 
was on the campus at the time 
this vacancy occurred. He was a 
fine player with Notre Dame and 
in the National Football League 
and his knowledge of football 
should provide the impetus need
ed to attract more students to 
football, thus improving our 
team.
In adidtion to his part-time du
ties on the faculty and now as 
head football coach at Carnegie 
Tech, Mr. Gasparella is a partner 
in the architectual firm of Drury 
and Gasparella in Oakland.
Saturday, Tech met Allegheny 
and Grove City in a double dual 
meet at the Grove City track. 
Tech managed to dump Alle
gheny, one of the teams it lost to 
last year, but could not cope with 
the Wolverines of Grove City. 
Tech turned in some outstanding 
performances, though, including a 
track record and a school record. 
Andy Niedra broke the track rec
ord in the 440, previously held by 
Dave York of Grove City in 1961. 
Niedra blazed around the track in 
the excellent time of 49.6 seconds, 
just .4 seconds off the CIT record. 
A record that did go, though, was
Carnegie Techs track team is 
now sporting a record of four 
wins and one loss, with two of the 
wins coming in triangular compe
tition. As of Saturday, Tech has 
conquered Jeannette, W&J, West
ern Reserve, Indiana, Waynesburg, and Allegheny, while drop
ping one to Grove City.
In a triangular meet at Wash
ington, Pa., Dennis Gary led the 
Tartans to a win over Western 
Reserve and W&J. Gary won the 
100 and 220 with times of 9.9 and 
21.8.
The second of two triangular 
meets had Tech winning over In
diana and Waynesburg. Indiana 
had been considered one of the 
powerhouses of the State Teach
ers Conference, and they gave 
Tech a running battle until the 
last third of the meet, when Tech 
pulled away to win by a good 
margin. This meet saw the com
mencement of two new events at 
the Tech Stadium, the hop, step, 
and jump, and the 330 intermedi
ate hurdles. Bob Diskin, Techs 
fine broad jumper, switched over 
to the h-s-j and won with a dis
tance of 38 feet. In the intermedi
ate hurdles, Joe Thomas took the 
extra distance in stride and cmae 
extra distance in stride and came 
seconds.
the pole-vault. Sophomore Tony 
Williams went 12 feet, 9 inches, to 
top the old Tech mark and get his 
name into the record books.
Dennis Gary won the 100 and 220 
in times of 10.0 and 22.0, and 
Chris Macosko won the mile with 
4:35.3. Hank Werronen was the 
winner in the discuss, and Mike 
Campbell won the two-mile.
In the mile-relay, Andy Niedra 
started the first lap for Tech, only 
to find that he had left the baton 
at the starting blocks. Finding it 
necessary to make a return trip to 
pick up the baton, Niedra lost 
ground and time, and could not 
make up the disadvantage. The 
athletic department is getting a 
special order of Sure-Grip for 
the next meet.
Techs next competition is 
against Geneva (held yesterday), 
and against St. Francis, here at 
Tech Stadium, on Saturday dur
ing Spring Carnival. Everyone is 
invited over to Tech Stadium to 
participate in the affair, being 
held as an integral part of Car
nival. Techs record to date is:
CIT......103Jeannette ...28
CIT. .....72West. Res. ....52
W&J .............,47
CIT......92Indiana .........69
Waynesburg ...11
CIT. .....79Allegheny ...fil
CIT......65Grove City ... .75
 Photo by Dick GoldmanJohn Borofsky hurls the weight against 
Indiana and Waynesburg.
Does a man really take unfair advantage of women when he uses Mennen Skin Bracer?
All depends on why he uses it.
Most men simply think Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the best 
after-shave lotion around. Because it cools rather than burns. 
Because it helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Because it helps prevent blemishes.
So who can blame them if Bracers crisp, long-fasting 
just happens to affect women so remarkably?
Of course, some men may use Mennen Skin Bracer of this effect.
How intelligent! 0
Successful
Tech Trackmen on Road
ToSeason
Franklin
open every Tuesday evening
FEDERAL 7p"
SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION
581 FORBES AVE., SQUIRREL HILL
/AR 35 YAaRl / oARlL LB LnL !lLLAFTROn JBHHTIlLE

---------------------------------------------------

Pa*e ^C  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 1, 196S
The Annual Spring Carnival Cricket Match will be play
ed on Saturday, May 4th, at 2:30 p.m. on the Intramural Field.
The contestants will be the Tech International Club and 
a combined team of players from U.S. Steel, Jones and 
Laughlin, Westinghouse, Gulf and the University of Pitts
burgh, or David versus the capitalistic Goliaths.
miMi oBGLFaNN 
yAelIU onBRL 
1963 oAaUBI
Intramural softball broke in
to the sports scene on Thursday, 
April 18. As the last major sport 
of the I. M. year, the thirty-four 
teams are putting their best into 
the short season, but the inter
est will focus on the struggle be
tween the Grads and ATO who 
are in the thick of the to-thedeath fight for the All-Sports 
Trophy. The scores indicate weak 
defenses in many of the teams 
as run-production seems to be 
stressed in the opening games.
In the past the Annual Spring Carnival Cricket Match 
-------------------------------------------------?has witnessed stirring contests be
tween the International eleven 
and Instep, in which the Interna
tional Club led 2 games to 1. Lasti 
year due to the departure of the; 
Instep, the Industries agreed to 
continue th series. Once again 
the International Club captured 
the laurels.
Capt. Mills of the Internationals 
is looking to the spirit of Spring 
Carnival  as well as the spirits 
of cricket to carry his team once 
more to glory. International Club 
invites all students and faculty to 
enjoy a pleasant afternoon con
templating this peculiar sport.
If inclement weather should en
sue Saturday, resulting in a sticky 
wicket, the match will be played 
on Sunday.
The Spring Carnival match will
Grove City server cuts loose 
against the Tartans in Satur
day's game.
mark the beginning of the cricket 
season this year. International 
Club has planned to send its team
 Photos by Dick GoldmanGrove City player returns a forehand to Dave Tranquilla.
to play against the cricket clubs 
in various places, namely, Hamil
ton, Toronto, Penn State, Balti
more, Cleveland, Philadelphia, 
Washington, and Staten Island.
Anybody interested in participai-^ 
ing in these matches contact Dr. 
Ken Mills (Ext. 467), Mr. Michael 
Adler (HA. 1-2362) or Mr. Rohit 
Trivedi (Ext. 351).
In the Mets league, the Pea
nuts defeated Sigma Nu B 21-16 
and the JaWeewees 6-5.
Spend
Your
Pennies
Vote
Now
For
UMOC
mBUbsFJ CuP,vlbsF yHPU ,BrupUFPHFB ubFUFHp,p. ,bPHlsF2 
p yur3BFFupU sfB F:B cH2FupH 4dd
Results of recent competitive events prove dramatically the 
durability and reliability of todays Ford-built cars. Our cars swept 
the first five places in the Daytona 500 for example. More important 
to youFord-built entries had the highest ratio of finishers in 
this grueling test of stamina! Less than halfjust 23of the 50 
starters finished; 13 of them were Ford-built!
Competitions such as the Daytona 500 are car killers. Piston 
rings can fail, transmissions can be demolished and engines 
blow up under these maximum efforts. Its a grinding demand 
for total performance and Ford-built cars proved they could take 
it better than any of the others.
Quite an eye-opener for car buyers. And conclusive proof that 
superior engineering at Ford Motor Company has produced more 
rugged engines and transmissions, sturdier bodies and frames 
and better all-round durability for todays Ford-built automobiles.
MOTOR COMPANY 
The American Road. Dearborn, Michigan 
MERmR RG'nGRRmnG' IRTcRmoEnW 
DmnG'o ^O DRAARmvDOnIA NTmo
Carnival Cricket To 
Invade Tech; May 4
In the Giants league, PKA for
feited to the Ferndochs and BTP 
A won in forfeite from PKA.
In the Pirates league, DTD 
beat the EE Grads 25-7 before 
squeezing by the Dukes 3-1.
In the Braves league, the Vulcans defeated BSR B 21-2 and 
the Met Grads 16-5. Theta Xi lost 
to the Met grads 2-1 and to TDP 
39-5.
In the Cardinals league, The 
Grad Eagles B lost to the Ma
rauders 6-5 before losing to the 
Sigma Nu A team 10-5.
In the Twins league, the Tro
jans W beat the Finks B 
17-14.
In the Yankee league, the Finks 
A defeated the Dunkers 14-6 
and the Trojans S 9-6. The Tro
jans S beat PKT 23-12 and 
BSR A" baat the Dunkers 10-3.
In the Senators league, SAE 
B lost to the Whales 9-8 and 
BTP B 31-17.
4)
