

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanApril 30, 1985
The Year in Review: PCs and Froot Loops
IFC rejects ZBT motion for campus house
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
A motion supporting colony status for the
reformed ZBT/TDP club was 
denied at an Inter Fraternity Council (IFC) 
meeting last Tuesday night.
Acting President Dan Preston turned 
down the ZBT clubs motion after two votes 
and an hour of discussion resulted in an 
eight to eight split among IFC 
representatives.
ZBT, which may return under the name 
Tau Delta Phi, a local fraternity, is the on
ly group officially seeking IFC support for 
the vacant ZBT house on 1071 Morewood 
Avenue.
I felt it was inappropriate to give our sup
port to any club or fraternity until weve had 
the chance to review the qualifications of all 
of them, said Preston.
The motion called for IFC support in the 
return of Tau Delta Phi as a colony which
would be seeking national status for Fall 
1986. It proposed that the colony participate 
in a dry rush open only to new perspective 
members, and in Greek events on a non
competitive basis. It mentioned the forma
tion of an Alumni Review Board to oversee 
the activities of the colony and prevent 
potential problems.
The ZBT house has been vacant since the 
fraternity lost University recognition late last 
semester following a violent incident bet
ween ZBT brothers and members of the 
Korean Student Association. According to 
Preston, the empty space has attracted 
enough attention to merit the formation of 
a set of IFC guidelines to help screen 
applicants.
Kappa Delta Rho, a national fraternity, 
is also up for review, Preston said, but add
ed that any further decisions would wait at 
least until.Fall.,. ^-----...........
However, ZBT club President Mike
Sussman said he would try to get another 
IFC meeting called after the guidelines are 
out, before the end of this semester.
Sussman said he had not planned on 
presenting a motion to the IFC until next 
semester, but was told shortly beforehand to 
do so by Dean of Student Affairs Braden 
Walter.
Walter could not be reached for 
comment.
I was surprised that Warner Hall wanted 
us to get the opinion of the IFC. I thought 
they wanted us to wait, Sussman said.
The clubs activities for the Spring 
Semester have included screening current 
members, election of new officers, meetings 
with ZBT alumni, and a submitted letter to 
the administration requesting club status.
On Feb. 15, 22 members attended the 
. ZBT Regional Qnlave.at.the Universit of 
Pittsburgh, which offered seminars on drug
and alcohol awareness, motivation 
leadership training.
Sussman said he has received soe 
port form other CMU Greeks, andh* 
joint mixers and pizza breaks, but* 
some negative feelings toward ZBT e 
regroup do exist: While we wereo*1 
pus, we got some bad feelings bet"' 
and the other houses. A lot of fraJ' 
presidents have not returned my0
During the closed discussion
preceded the IFC vote, doubts abo111
did surface, according to Preston.
rk GZBT has become a black ma 
reputation of CMU fraternities. 
Theres too much concern that 
club will be the same as before.
As secretary of the IFC, Preston, ^ 
at Beta Theta Pi, undertook dutie^ 
President Adam. Suser... SP?$e'r'  
hospitalized for a torn retina
several study rooms didnt help the space 
problem. However, this year also saw Wean 
Halls Engineering and Science Library with 
new carpet and shelves to better absorb 
noise.
extra times in which to eat the same f 
as before. If students respond well to the 
plan, campus-wide pizza deliveries maVs 
side slightly, proving that timing is morf 
portant than substance.
There is more to a college degree than 
classes, so an emerging campus pub is a 
welcome sign. The supporters willingness to 
work with new restrictions and less per
missive attitudes toward alcohol shows that 
the senior class gift is a good selection. The 
Highlander Rooms rugs-on-the-wall will 
always be remembered regardless of what 
changes.
On the culinary side of things, University 
Dining Service brought Froot Loops into the 
Kiltie Cafe, thus providing a colorful alter
native to some of the other less palatable en
trees. Froot Loop fervor was soon replaced, 
however, by a demand for crunchberries.
Now UDS is offering the Super 19 Meal 
Plan, which for $88 gives no extra food, but
ZBT fraternity was removed fromc 
pus after an unfortunate series of events 
the university maintained a policy of act 
fairly when the situation arose. TheC 
Greek system withstood the scrutiny of 
side newspapers and the rest of the cam 
community. As drinking laws tighte 
around the nation, CMU wondered 
its policies regarding student aleo 
consumption.
Lastly, for the first time in five years tl 
was a Beaux Arts Ball. The event went 
spectacularly, but the tragic death of a 
dent the next day underscored our owni 
tality. Grief in any form is a painful par 
life. Our reflection on that loss should 
rise to thoughts of how we might wisl 
spend our lives as we leave campus for 
year.
file photo
The Tartans prepared for the annual homecoming game behind the ROTC formation.
By PETER BAIN and KAREN GRAY
Tartan Contributing and News Editors
The sight of Physical Plant workers, busy 
around campus filling holes is a sure sign of 
graduation and the close of the school year. 
However, CMU has more interaction with 
the world beyond Forbes Avenue than the 
parents due here in a few weeks. We are part 
of numerous trends nationwide as we go 
about our business.
First among these is the Software 
Engineering Institute. CMU bid aggressive
ly for the SEI and the effort was justly 
rewarded. Today, the national debate on the 
values of defense spending has intensified. 
What our school has won will be the focus 
of controversy for years to come, while it re
mains the capstone on CMUs reputation as 
a leading science and technology center. 
Freshmen will come to CMU knowing it as 
a major player in computer science and 
military applications.
Computer facilities continued to grow in 
size, however, to the point where the Com
puter Science department may become a 
separate entity from the rest of the Mellon 
College of Science. Meanwhile, the univer
sity has made efforts to upgrade the quality 
of the basic sciences with the renovation of 
the Chemistry and Physics labs.-
But some plans may have fallen by the 
wayside. CMU made big news when it an
nounced plans for the establishment of an
IBM PC network. A year later, it is beginn
ing to look like IBM PCs may not dominate 
everyone elses dorm room. A sizeable 
percentage of the student body may still pass 
through the freshly fertilized graduation 
grounds without ever having touched a disk 
drive.
Equally important to future CMU 
students was the Spring announcement of a 
university-wide core curriculum. For years 
there has been a kind of separate but equal 
treatment of students from different colleges 
in basic courses. The plan is a positive 
blueprint for more equitable undergraduate 
instruction. The Core will give students a 
common social link if it is given the care that 
it deserves. Combining potentially engaging 
material with a consistent framework will 
change for the better the early stages of a 
CMU education.
Native and adopted Pittsburghers alike 
were surprised with our selection as the 
number one spot in the nation. Coast-tocoast fame has a price, so the jokes con
tinued while we wondered what we did to 
deserve it. Schenley Park, Downtown and 
Oakland are known to us all, but it seems 
that it took a national survey (with the help 
of a computer, of course) to show us their 
beauty. Besides, postcard sales in the 
bookstore had been lagging.
The Hunt Library became more crowd
ed than ever this year, and the closing of
photo by otevc
The Beaux Arts Ball brought students out to the theme of Night.

---------------------------------------------------

April 30, 1985The TartanPage 3
hat's wrong with The Tartan ?
By Christopher Johnston
The Tartan is a weekly thats been weak 
x some years. Campus community 
mbers have held it in low regard since as 
long as most have been at CMU. 
Their discontent ranges from 
exasperation over the petty er
rors made by Tartan staffers to 
-ticism about the ability of Tartan
torS... . *Much of the criticism is valid, but usualoffered without suggestions for change.
ere is an urgent need to solve The Tari problems because it is the only medium
'ch regularly reflects campus news, events
d opinion. There may never be a CMU
dent union in which undergraduates can
ther, leaving The Tartan as the only
vanizing force on this campus.
Until the problems of The Tartan are solvCMU undergraduates remain an uncenlized and subsequently unrepresented
jority. This political impotence has led
administration decisions such as the actance of the $103 million DoD Software
neering Institute contract without conting any undergraduates.
Tartan staffers, and college journalists in
eral, have both unique problems and
lited opportunities. Although they may
ve the energy and idealism to actively purreportage, they rarely know enough of
basic skills of journalism to pursue a story
Im a prime example. As a second
ester senior Ive finally taken the one
alism course offered at this school and
ve discovered much I didnt know about
business.
well as not having journalism skills, 
ge journalists have to maintain a passQPA. At an institution as hard as CMU, 
ts no easy task. I asked a man who edited 
aper at City University of New York in
1968 how he managed to stay in school as 
well as turn out good copy, and he said that 
all his teachers liked his leftist ideas and so 
passed him in classes he couldnt attend. But 
that was CUNY in 1968 and this is CMU in 
1985.
Despite inability and time limitations, col
lege journalists have opportunities unique to 
the position. No administration official or 
outraged subject of lampoon can pressure 
a college journalist with threats integral to 
most other organizations. They cant fire 
people who arent paid, and what subject of
There is an urgent need to 
solve The Tartans problems 
because it is the only 
medium which regularly 
reflects campus news, events 
and opinions.
libel would sue a newspaper with as measly 
a budget as the Tartan? Even if a case got 
to court, a judge would probably rule 
against the libeled because of the limited 
scope of a college paper and the inex
perience of the college journalist.
Mistakes should be avoided in any jour
nalism, but they are often implicit in col
lege journalism. All good journalists screw 
up somewhere and its smarter to make basic 
errors in the college papers than in a pro
fessional publication. For instance, I once 
decided against the bother of checking the 
spelling of GSIA Industrial Management 
Head Charles Kriebels name. I printed the 
more phonetic, Crebol, and subsequently 
was thrashed in writing by the Dean himself.
College is the time to endure such 
embarassments.
Good college journalists have unlimited 
passion and energy which usually makes up 
for their incpmpetence. Some students have 
misinterpreted Tartan administrative in
competence as a dearth of passion, but I 
disagree. Tartan passion is only neutered by 
its mismanagement. Editors at the Tartan 
seemed to value the power they hold more 
than the copy they produce. The power of 
their egos seemed to be more important than 
the excitement of seeing and smelling a 
quality piece in newsprint.
Under Monica Cellios tenure as Editor, 
The Tartan couldnt maintain a staff of 
writers, and editorial policy was squabbled 
over rather than implemented. Since student 
writers arent paid, they have to be manag
ed and directed with some sensitivity, and 
not ordered about like paid employees. 
Though section editors were happy to tell 
writers what to do, few editors took the time 
to sit down with their writers and discuss the 
merits and problems in a story.
I never worked with Ric Medrow and his 
editors, but as insiders have it, staff egos 
often overrode common sense in Tartan 
layout. The Tartan opinion section was 
taken from page two and buried near the 
back because of logic which said thats how 
they do it in real newspapers. This idea is 
wrong not only because its not a college 
newspapers job to parrot the pros, but 
because most major newspapers put opinion 
and letters sections in the back of their first 
section: the news section. Features, Sports, 
Entertainment, and Classified follow suit. 
The Tartan only has one section, so this 
layout change is just dumb. Also, during this 
tenure, The Tartan was so financially 
mismangaged that even now the red tape 
hasnt been untwined.
Steven Volan was The Tartan editor prior 
to this issue. He was deposed by his staff early 
last week. Under Volans shepherding, The 
Tartan began to cooperate with the ad
ministration, the Greeks, and the student 
senate. A college newspapers job isnt to 
cooperate with campus organizations. Its job 
is to report and judge both the ac
complishments and abuses of those organiza
tions. Few staffers had a clear idea of what 
was expected of them, often incompetence 
wasted a writers time.
What else can be done about The Tartan? 
One good idea would be for a string of 
writing professors and career journalists to 
volunteer advice to Tartan writers and 
editors. In order to insure the independence 
of the Tartan editorial board, these people 
would have to either be folks not subject to 
pressure by the university administration, or 
the changes they suggest offered in an infor
mal, non-pressured setting. Initially, Id sug
gest a one day workshop run much like the 
Counseling Centers tutoring service, except 
with extra goodies such as speeches and hobnobbery between Tartan staffers, other jour
nalism minded students and the 
professionals.
These ideas are only a few suggestions on 
improving The Tartan. If everybody puts 
their heads together, Im sure there will be 
more. Once the problems plaguing The Tar
tan are alleviated, eroded student confidence 
will be restored. Under new editor 
Christopher Lewis, the Tartan could become 
a fine college newspaper, but only his tenure 
will tell. I challenge Lewis and all Tartan 
staffers to fix what ails the Tartan and let 
the passion of your age and position write 
your work.
Christopher Johnston is a senior in Pro
fessional and Creative Writing and writes 
News Analysis for The Tartan.
You have until Fri
day May 10 to check 
for lost and found at 
the Skibo Informa
tion Desk.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanApril 30, 1985
Campus community members recognizec
Adamson Awards 
given to writers
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
Eleven students were recognized for writ
ten work in the fourth annual Adamson 
Awards ceremony, held in the Adamson 
Wing Friday evening. In the Poetry 
category, Laurie Schorr won first prize 
Lauren Schneider won second, and Janice 
Woester was given an Honorable Mention.
David Yezzi won the Academy of American 
Poets prize, with an Honorable Mention go
ing to Laura Waldron and Ann Curran. 
Scott Storey won the CMU University Press 
Prize.
All entries for poetry were judged by 
Paula Rankin, a poet and author of The 
Wreckmasters Cottage.
Cathleen Barnhart took first prize in the 
Fiction category, with second prize going to 
Kristin Kovacic. An Honorable mention 
went to Michael Noel. Russell Banks, whose 
latest novel is Continental Drift, judged the 
Fiction entries.
In the Nonfiction for Magazines category, 
Judy Mangan, Wendie Wulff and Tom 
Palombi won first, second and an Honorable 
Mention respectively. The entries were judg
ed by Nicholas Pilaggi, a former reporter for 
the New York Herald Tribune
The evenings featured guest, poet 
Carolyn Forche, read a number of her works, 
including selections from her first book, 
Gathering The Tribes, and from her ex
periences in El Salvador.
Forche was born in Detroit, grew up in 
Southern Michigan, and was educated at
Bowling Green State University and 
Michigan State Universitys Justin Morrill 
College. Between 1978 and 1980, she work
ed as a journalist and human rights in
vestigator in El Salvador.
Gathering The Tribes won the Yale Series 
of Younger Poets Award in 1976. Forches se
cond book, The Country Between Us, won 
the Lamont Poetry Award from the 
Academy of American Poets and was 
published by Harper & Row in 1982. Her 
other honors include a National Endowment 
for the Arts Fellowship and a Guggenheim 
Fellowship.
Juniors named 
Andrew Carnegie 
Society scholars
PittsburghFour Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity juniors have been selected as The An
drew Carnegie Society Scholars in recogni
tion of scholastic achievement and involve
ment in campus activities.
The recipients will receive a $1,000 award 
at the end of their senior year. They will be 
honored at the annual Andrew Carnegie 
Society dinner and theater party on April 27.
The Andrew Carnegie Scholars, selected 
by a panel of CMU alumni, are:
John A. DeNisi, a physics/mathematics 
major in the Mellon College of Science;
 Bruce J. Fisch, a metallurgical engineer
ing and materials science major in the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology;
 Beth Lovendusky, an art major in the Col
lege of Fine Arts;
 Heather Newton, a history major in the 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences.
The recipients were nominated by the 
deans of CMUs four undergraduate colleges. 
The alumni selection committee was chaired 
by R. Hunter Caffee, a 1956 graduate and 
owner and president of Geyer Printing 
Company.
The Andrew Carnegie Society is an 
organization of CMU alumni, trustees, 
parents and .friends who have contributed 
to the university.
Grad student 
shows research 
at conference
PITTSBURGHDavida Charney, a 1974 
graduate of Maine Township High School 
East and a doctoral candidate at CarnegieMellon University, is one of 15 graduate 
students nationwide who were invited to pre
sent their research at the Conference of 
Human Factors in Computing Systems in 
San Francisco, April 14-17.
Charneys research centers on The Role 
of Elaboration in Skill Learing. She is a 
fourth-year graduate student in rhetoric and 
plans to receive her degree later, in the 
summer.
The Conference on Human Factors in 
Computing Systems is the leading forum for 
the discussion of all aspects of human in
teraction with computers. Participants are 
from the United States, Great Britain and 
Canada.
Charney is the daughter of Rabbi and 
Mrs. Lawrence Charney of Churchill Street 
in Morton Grove. Rabbi Charney has led 
Northwest Suburban Jewish Congregation in 
Morton Grove for the past 26 years.
CMU psychology 
named to Cognhh 
Science Chair
PittsburghDr. John R. Anderson, an 
cognitive psychologist at Carnegie-Mt 
Universtiy, has been named the Walter] 
Dyke Bingham Professor of Cognj 
Science at the university.
In announcing the professorship, [ 
President Richard M. Cyert noted An 
sons substantial contributions to the unj 
sity through scholarship, teaching and 
development of computer-based pedago
Anderson has successfully developed 
telligent computers that work with stu4 
in the same way a human tutor does, 
predicts that he and his associates mai 
able to improve the computer tutor to 
point that it is as good or better than hui 
tutors.
Anderson holds a joint appointmei 
CMUs Departments of Psychology 
Computer Science. He is an editor 
Cognitive Science has published man? 
tides in technical journals and pop 
magazines and is the author of several k 
on cognitive psychology.
He received his bachelors degree t 
Stanford University in 1972.
The award is named for Walter Bmgh 
who established the first Department of 
plied Psychology in the United States in 
at the Carnegie Institute of Technol 
which later became Carnegie-Me 
Universtiy. Binghams goal was to a| 
scientific knowledge to the solution off 
tical problems in Pittsburghs industrk
SAVE WITH A HERTZ PENSKE 
G2Z3 TRUCK RENTAL.
CZ/-9/63
th/s orr** sutrecT ro sr4M&4*c remee xevr*L ou*ur/C0r/q*Ji ^
HERTZ PENSKE LEASES AND RENTS FORDS AND OTHER STURDY TRUCKS

---------------------------------------------------

is rea/pnosis /.
Blubber Blub" reveals all about experience
LYSE ANCHELL
77e Tartan
0 I was not paid.
I was really hypnotized. 
ese statements answer the two most 
on questions that I am asked by 
uS students who watched the hypnosis 
nstration during the past two Spring 
ivals.
e notion of being hypnotized is either 
dered magical or just shrugged off as 
iness by most people. I first volunteered 
pring out of curiosity and a desire to 
cipate in the carnival festivities, not 
ing that it would make me an instant 
us celebrity as Blubber Blub. 
ie most important thing to realize about 
osis is that no one can hypnotize you 
iu are unwilling. In fact, once under 
osis, the hypnotist can not make you do 
ing you really dont want to do. 
ted, I dont usually lose my bellybutbut if I had not wanted to appear as 
ad lost my bellybutton, I wouldnt have.
Hypnosis is all in your own mind and in your 
control. It is sort of like being under the in
fluence of alcohol, in that sometimes you act 
a bit strange, but could act straight, if for 
instance, your parents entered the room.
When under hypnosis you react to the 
hypnotists suggestions rather than to an ac
tual impulse. For example, when the hyp
notist said that my chair was hot I reacted 
as if it really was hot. I did not actually feel 
heat, rather reacted as if I did because the 
hypnotist told me to react accordingly.
With the more physical exercises it is 
mind over matter. I really could not pull 
my arms apart, but only because I had con
vinced myself that I couldnt. Any resistance 
to the hypnotists suggestion would have 
nullified this spell I had put myself under.
In William Wordsworths words its a will
ing suspension of disbelief. You have to be 
willing to accept what you feel, and not to 
expect some great cloud of unconsciousness 
to envelope you. The experience is not scary, 
has no lasting effects, and is pretty relaxing.
'ousing costs to rise
Students will pay more to live on camext fall, thanks to rising utility and 
ng costs, increasing staff salaries and 
ion rates, say campus housing officials 
d the nation.
t year, dorm rates went up an average 
r to seven percent, and observers say 
e factors that forced up costs last year 
increase 1985-86 dorm rates by about 
me percentages.
eres no definite dorm trend, contends 
Jahr, research committee chairman of 
Association of College and University 
iing Officers (ACUHO). Each instituhas its own demographics that deter - 
rates. ,
orms closing, opening, rates rising, 
ing. Theyre probably all true, adds 
Grimm, president of the College and 
rsity Housing Officers International 
housing director at the University of 
a.
here is no national trend, he concurs, 
s are dependent on each institution 
ts enrollment standards. 
each institutions specific conditions 
to be on dorm hikes whether 
Uments rise of fall.
versity of Tennessee officials, for exampredict enrollment will drop for the 
h consecutive year, thanks to tighter adons requirements.
cause there will be fewer students, UT 
lI*grates will go up 5.5 percent next fall, 
Residence Director Jim Grubb, 
e yearly increase for us is more related 
!e inflation trend, he explains. In the 
e> well see increases staying at about 
to six percent.
anwhile, Michigan State adtrators anticipate the largest freshman 
hnent in five years, and a six to seven 
nt increase in the rate of returning
nts.
1 at Michigan State, more students 
housing will still go up 2.9 percent, 
Rousing Officer Charles Gagliano. 
ere very proud its below the inflation 
r he says. Its one of the lowest ins in the nation.
hano says higher enrollment wont off
ice increasing costs of institutional
tenance.
|^eed, Penn States rates will go up five 
nt next fall to cover increased utility 
_ Perating costs. School officials predict 
|y 500 students wont be able to get inmPUs housing.
Harvards housing costs will jump from 
$1,635 this year to $1,750 next year to heop 
pay off a $50 million renovation project, says 
housing officer Lisa Colvin.
Students at the universities of Oklahoma 
and Washington will pay nearly four percent 
more for housing next fall to cover salary 
and utility cost hikes.
And Western Michigan students will pay 
$176 more per year for room and board to 
cover food, phone, and supply cost ad
justments. An additional $25 deferred 
maintenance fee will be used to renovate 
residence halls.
At the University of Illinois-Urbana and 
New Yorks Ithaca College, housing cost 
hikes will pay for specific construction 
projects.
Despite widespread protest, Ul-Urbana 
dorm residents wil pay $24 extra a year to 
help pay for new dorm construction at the 
systems Chicago campus.
Ithaca students will pay an additional $62 
per semester, nearly nine percent more than 
last year, for a new dorm built last year.
The dorm cost is impacting on next years 
housing costs, say's Assistant Bursar Steve 
Schwan. But another portion of the in
crease goes to operating costs. -
Most students say the housing increases 
are fair, but they wish administrators would 
use some of the money generated by increas
ed rates to improve the quality of dorm food.
Last year the food and the prices were 
so bad that we had a student uprising, says 
Jeff Ward of the University of Washington. 
It had the usual effect; a shuffling of 
management. But the food quality has since 
declined, and the prices are going up again.
Prices are going up, adds UW student 
Lisa Stewart. But mostly theyre fair. I think 
the dorms are fine.
The rates are comparable to off-campus 
housing, says University of Houston student 
Kim Smerlinski. I live in the dorms because 
its more convenient.
Housing officers say theyre aware offcampus housing is becoming more com
petitive with dormitory housing.
In our area, the landlords are very com
petitive, says ACUHOs Jahr. Theyre offer
ing the first months rent free and adding 
amenities. Were discovering were not a 
market unto ourselves.
Were marketing a product, he adds. 
Were becoming more aware of what the 
consumers want.
Registration hassles
By HELENE NEWBERG and LISA 
McANANY
Tartan Staffwriters
This years registration is over. The week 
before finals, the hectic last week of classes, 
most students are satisfactorily registered.
A big complaint, once the initial this 
stinks has been aired, involves computers. 
If this is such a computer-based school, why 
cant registration be computerized?
One suggestion, from a CIT freshman, in
volved computers. He proposed that each 
student submit a list of preferred courses at 
preferred times. The list would then be fed 
into the computer and out into schedules. 
This proposal almost denies the choice of 
professor, which is important to the college 
student. High schools schedule teachers for 
you. Colleges should allow you at least some 
freedom of choice.
Computers could fit into the system, in
stead of signing a piece of paper for your sec
tion, perhaps your name could be entered 
into even a localized database on a PC. At 
least this would give the appearance of hav
ing computerized registration.
Another computer application, both 
helpful and feasible, would be computerworksheets. Rather than trial schedule cards, 
a database available on the TOPS system 
might allow people to try to make out their 
schedules online, and possibly submit
schedules online.
Everyone seems to have his own ideas 
about how to improve registration, but 
overall opinion of the process is improving. 
Karen, an H&SS freshman was happy with 
registration. I got four of my classes signed 
without having to stand in lines. It went 
great. Much of this success may be at
tributable to pre-registration. Many students 
were able to pre-register for the classes they 
are taking in their own department.
Despite this pre-registration however, not 
everyone could get the sections they wanted 
and in some cases could not even get the 
courses they wanted or needed. Leslie, an IM 
senior, was waitlisted for an IM course that 
she needs to graduate in December.
These problems may be caused in part by 
inadequate advising and counseling. Most 
students know what courses they need from 
their own department, but may be less cer
tain about the interdisciplinary courses of
fered to them either as electives or to fulfill 
required distributions. Paul, a CIT 
freshman, is unable to take the H&SS classes 
he needs to meet the requirements of his 
department, largely because these classes are 
reserved for incoming H&SS freshmen. But 
such idiosyncracies are not always apparent 
to those outside of a department, and need 
to be emphasized by advisors to avoid such 
problems.
Housing rates will rise all over the country, not just l-D-7 Morewood. fllc photo

---------------------------------------------------

CMU Computer Store
Hewlett-Packard Products
HP 110  A lb. Portable, MS-Dos, 
656K internal memory, Lotus 1-2-3 in 
ROM and 300b Modem.
......................................... $2300.00
Thinkjet Printer  150 CPS ink jet 
printing, disposable printhead, very
quiet................................................................. $375.00
Lazer Jet Printer  Perfect letter 
quality printing at A pages per minute, 
interchangable font cartriges. 
.................................................................................$2625.00
CMU Computer Store Hours 
10-4 Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri. 
10-6 Thurs.
WANTED
ALL CARNEGIE-MELLON 
UNIVERSITY STUDENTS 
TO CHEER THE RUNNERS
PITTSBURGH MARATHON
85
MAY 5TH
LINE THE HALF-WAY MILE 
SOUTH CRAIG BETWEEN 
FORBES AND FIFTH 
10:30 AM, BE THERE
MUSIC AND BALLOONS 
PAINTER HATS FOR FIRST 100 PEOPLE
Student Aid.
Microsoft offers Macintosh' 
owners all the answers to all 
your final tribulations. Everything youve ever wanted.
For less.
Word* File* Chart*
Multiplan: BASIC* ___
All at great student discounts.
Microsoft " Word doesnt limit you to 10 or even .
50 pages, so its perfect for long term papers. It 
runs letter quality printers and works with your 
existing MacWrite files (so you dont lose any of 
your work). Microsoft File lets you organize any infor
mation from research notes to record collections. 
Microsoft Chart punctuates any statistic-filled report 
by letting you illustrate your point, graphically For 
accounting or finance, Microsoft Multiplan is the 
spreadsheet for the Macintosh. And with Microsoft 
BASIC, you can write your own programs.
Max your maior*
Word, File, Chart and Multiplan work together, 
so you can easily move information back and
forth between them. And all use the same 
command structure.That means you can 
save valuable learning time.
And each works on the 128K or 512K 
Macintosh. Not to mention that weve 
written more programs for Mac, so
nxi ty knows MICROSOFT.Mac better The High Performance Software
than us. No other companys soft
ware can give you all this.
So if you want to be a more productive student, 
take Mac to the max. Check out Microsoft at your 
campus store. Or call (800) 426-9400, in Washington 
State, call (206) 828-8088 for more information.
Microsoft and Multiplan arc registered trademarks and The Hiyh Performance Software is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation MacWrite is a trademark .nd Macintosh is a trademark licensed to Apple Computer. Inc

---------------------------------------------------

A special joe prgshman

---------------------------------------------------

.. oui si oie EW c&evm oh 
cwpos cwpos as aOn. oO.. Oown.
ot M}1fc(lftl6~f 6MOUAT, 
UmilfTfoli Hwa, ffectwfr TH 
7oi&$ia*. 0t or tt* ZowOfct*
LO ttm To * sfeninroMtfts,
Mtm h ctm of 
litmtojkbtts iAijsom6. 
SMftfc h mi*N5l&& imt m Am, ^
590*D IT |MT> T*f
*k'Qmi'' 0? M* m-tc^ 
6m*b K ftmmb T m 
tn *$afr w ^ 
*3on m  is 
feto*.* WH..................
K" /*msg& ( lostmx 
___J To ILW
ni
WftoemiJ&Knr--
Jvm CS tm 5 
,/ s^if Alvavs 
jiflf SHffT
wu io mm&t*3di VtLL HA# t CN. W
Cmott et tmtiMWm*t
\iVU fttSJOi Puwr, THE GOfS 
lo }Ne*K Mtajnot# -m nmu 
of w i6*t Abo mi ime vxtym 
m mi okws To ut? fru out 
. f Wtf* AW Pi CMJ*T 
5top usi ^--------
|> f&ste <
 M ^ 
Ite CUT/5 AAnfl^
! trr, ffesioeMT
anyTr oo--
^foiuwt' ite* 
.^OPHtf ft flflM
-X?\5)^teifo ai*
3* no jrs i
GUOmw Mf!
T% V WMK w.
I SCllTM 
) rtot Trt*N
> hhwuwaa 
. -fcs&Prtt/
J X AM ttt 16/1 
V UV&tSOW5 f|K Sf. W WE *7 f IstoS 6w, 0*0 
7 &>>?! X MAH 1b 6 M 
^ pr*Q LOW.- .OIaMM// - . ri 6/ i<ns -.r i6<in
Joe Freshman: The Final Frames

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

V -JV l  V  ' s -> v
By Mark Levine

---------------------------------------------------

And now.
meet Joe's creator
T /W> /^y NAWelS'*fRESH/AAN|so is wy sosiwy .SOA 
freshman^ SR.
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor 
Joe Freshman has become somewhat of a celebrity on this 
campus, but what of Mark Levine, Joes creator? Its no coin
cidence that Joe and Mark are graduating at the same time, 
and so this reporter spent an hour talking with the lesserknown side of CMUs most popular comic strip.
evine, a senior playwriting major, plans to continue car
tooning following graduation: My parents are thrilled. They 
dont always understand my cartoons, but they like them. 
Joe Freshman is not Levines first comic strip. He first 
started doodling in third grade 
to alleviate classroom boredom.
In high school, however, his 
doodling turned into a 
character called Joe Soph
omore. We didnt have 
freshmen there, he explained.
It was a three year high school.
Joe Sophomore, whose dark 
curly hair made him more 
strongly resemble his maker 
than does Joe Freshman, went 
through some of the same traumas Levine endured in 
Churchill High, a local Pittsburgh school. Among Levines 
more memorable scenarios were his Physics class (They 
physically couldnt teach me physics) and his involvement in 
the high school band, where he played Baritone.
Cartooning was rougher for Levine then. As his high school 
didnt have a way of shooting drawings down to smaller sizes, 
he had to draw all of his cartoons to scale. I almost went 
blind writing the dialogue, he said.
Nevertheless, Levine went straight to The Tartan as a 
freshman with a stack of Joe Sophomores. He was immediate
ly hired and hasnt missed a week since.
So has Mark had a good college experience? Has 
it been anything like Joes?
Weve definitely gone through 
some of the same things, con
ceded Levine. He wasnt allow
ed to get a girlfriend until I did.
Many of Levines characters in 
the strip have been inspired by 
his friends at CMU. Several of 
his roommates (including the 
one Joe dug up when he clean
ed his room) have appeared in 
cartoon form over the past four 
years. Marks girlfriend, 
however, was not a model for 
Joes girlfriend, and takes jokes about the strip pretty well. 
Joe Freshmans basic look has changed since his inception. 
According to Levine, the character once had a much rougher, 
undefined appearance: Someone wrote in saying that I drew 
Joe with a crayon. I got him back in the Natrat, though, when 
I actually did use a crayon. You can tell the difference. 
Over several editors and Tartan formats, Joe Freshman 
has gotten much better billing. The strip has a definite space 
in the Funnies section and Levine said he could be sure of
..SO 1 SA10?30ST &WE ^ 
rAE CHEESff and SHE SAID ^ 
"want lettuce VN tomato?'' 
And I Smd^No^ost 
C\-\E>)4ANO W SAID 
N'How A^ojt Some 
cheese?*...
C
the cartoon coming out the way he drew it: An editor once 
cut a frame out of Joe Freshman to make space. I was pretty 
mad about that. But Ive been very happy with the recent 
editors.
What about other cartoonists, at CMU and elsewhere? Have 
any of them inspired Levines work as a cartoonist?
My favorite syndicated car
toon was by Walt Kelly. It was 
called Pogo. A lot of people 
thought it was a cutesy animal 
strip, but it was actually quite 
political, he said. At CMU,
Levines favorite cartoon was Ip
so Facto, a strip done by Art 
Major Diane Thodos. Some 
cartoons I read make me laugh 
out loud. Its hard for a cartoon 
to make you do that.
In his own cartooning, Levine 
has been experimenting 
with different techniques of presenting the punchline. 
Sometimes I have a joke at the end, and sometimes I throw 
them in at the beginning and all over the place. The key is 
that The Tartan only comes out once a week, so I feel I have 
to pack in enough funny for a whole week.
Are there any underlying messages that Levine would like 
to put in his cartoons?
I dont think Id like to put any political messages in. 
Doonesbury and Bloom County seem to do a good job of that 
already. Id like to comment on social things.
Levines social commentary on CMU has remained pretty 
benign. He has had Joe feed a Tartanburger into an IBM 
PC disk drive, but is not against computers, having used them 
frequently as word processors. However, he did speak out 
against tuition increases through his strip.
But he is happy at CMU: I really appreciate the chance 
to get involved with a regular cartoon strip. I just wish CMU 
had a daily newspaper. Id really like the chance to get in that 
kind of practice.
Joe Freshman may change as Levine makes his way into 
what he hopes will be the syn
dicated cartoon life. The 
character may, he admitted, 
have to shed some of its col
legiate, CMU-brand of humor 
in order for a wider audience to 
understand what is going on.
Could anyone else except a 
CMU reader laugh at a joke 
about an IBM PC? By picking] 
up on what makes CMU so dif
ferent from other places, Levine 
has doubtless made his readers 
more aware of CMUs special 
brand of humor, humor which 
can only come from the odd 
computer hours we keep and
the horrible food we eat. Jester.

---------------------------------------------------

Come &
Get it/
1985!Th'stleiis here!
MondayFriday
Ski bo 
10 - 6
or Buy
funded by activities fee
A. LAI------  . 

---------------------------------------------------

PRECISION
HAIRCUT
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT 
BLOW STYLE)
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
$25.00
COLOR
W? never met a head 
we didn't like
. . .With apologies to Will Rogers, 
the great American humorist.
The point we're trying to make, 
of course, is that many haircutters only see hair when they 
look at a head.
At Great "X", we look at the 
whole head as well as the hair. 
We also listen to what the head 
says, how he or she pictures himMon, Tues, Wed 107 
Thurs, Fri 109 
Sat 96
self or herself after the haircut.
Our haircutters are trained to put 
it all together ... so that the 
final product is more than just an 
example of expert haircutting . .
but a perfect representation of 
who you want to be.
Every head's a winner, when it 
heads for. . .
NO APPOINTMENT
upccmions
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
NISEX HAIR SALON
237 Atwood Street
Across the street from 
the Oakland Post Office
IHA1K
CUIJIL;!
aof rat feniffs .t7fo7
FCR WCMEN & /HEN
21 -HAIE 
4CC S. CDAI6 SI 
OAKLAND
Ski."CUT 
ByKA RENEGEGEY
W III IIS CCUPONn I S.;SAI. M S
CAPRI PIZZA
k\N
$2.45
Where Today ... 
... Tomorrow 
And Every Day... 
yu aet the Best Pizza in Oakland at the Best Price!
Eat-In or Delivered
+ taxLARGE PIZZA and 
2 LITERS OF PEPSI!!
UNBELIEVABLE!!
axraxxxioQoooax^
*OAKLAND'S FINEST NIGHTCLUB*
rCEBES STUDIO
GIGANTIC VIDEO SCPCEN ENTERTAINMENT*
Open Tuesday - Sunday 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.oaxoaiooaxioooooo^^
3415 FORCES AVE. POU. PA. 1d213 PHONE 681-2202
OUR SAMI FAMOUS SPECIAL 
WITH NOW AN EVEN GREATER 
SAVINOS TO TOUI!
Whan You'r* Onto A Good Thing, Stick With Itll

---------------------------------------------------

____________________Entertainment.
$jyond the Astra/ Skmc
Electric Sun releases first American album
lrich Roth and Electric Sun go Beyond the Astral Skies.
y ANTHONY A. DATRI
irtan Entertainment Editor 
Those who know the early Scorpions 
bums know the magical talent of Ulrich 
ath. Roth provided the inspired guitar 
ork that, along with the gifted vocals of 
Jaus Meine, gained the band a devoted 
Mowing in Europe and Japan in the Sevenes. Unfortunately, the American public did 
ot recognize the calibre of the band until 
fter Roth had left.
Roth joined Scorpions in time for their seind album, 1974s Fly to the Rainbow, 
placing Rudolphs younger brother, 
ichael, on guitar. Roth stayed with the 
nd for five years, appearing on the Fly to 
Rainbow, In Trance, Virgin Killer, Taken 
Force and the live Tokyo Tapes albums.
as both a guitarist and a songwriter. Roths 
guitar work ranges from the gentle enchant
ment of In Trance to the thunderous power 
of Virgin Killer to the quiet beauty of 
Yellow Raven. In these songs, Roth shows 
a definite influence and true dedication to 
the musical memory of Jimi Hendrixnot 
the ripoff antics of the likes of John Butcher 
Axis or the commercial perversion found in 
Prince.
The songs that Roth wrote or co-wrote on 
these albums are often peices of fantastic, 
dreamy imagery, ranging from fhe epic 
Lifes Like a River to the enchanting 
Yellow Raven. On the occasions when Roth 
joins or replaces the powerful Meine on 
vocals, he displays a wispy, somewhat rough 
voice that, while not as clear or powerful as
On these albums, Roth shows his talent Meines, conveys much feeling.
After the release of Scorpions Tokyo 
Tapes album, Roth left because of divergent 
musical directions within the band. He 
wanted to progress further into the 
mysterious imagery of his past works, while 
the rest of the band was moving towards a 
more concrete sound.
Roth then formed a band of his own, 
Electric Sun, which released two albums, 
Earth Quake and Fire Wind, in 1978 and 
1979. These discs were released only in Ger
many on a small label called Brain, and are 
difficult to find.
But now a new Electric Sun album, 
Beyond the Astral Skies, has been released 
in America by Capital. Here Roth, now 
known as Uli Jon Roth, is joined by Clive 
Bunker on drums and percussion, Michael 
Flechsich on lead vocals, and Ule Ritgen on 
bass. Roth himself appears on guitar, bass, 
keyboards, and lead vocals. Bunker and 
Flechsich, as well as session people, join Roth 
on harmony vocals. Harmony vocals are not 
often credited on albums these days, and it 
is a sign that the tracks within feature soar
ing, well blended vocals, ones that often 
sound like a full choir, although only a 
handful of voices appear.
Roths guitar work on this album is as in
spired as ever, somewhat less feirce than that 
of his Scorpions days, yet no less melodic or* 
emotional. The disk features a sound that 
is distinctly different from that done with 
Scorpions less heavy, more ethereal. The 
songs reflect this astral theme, with titles 
such as Son of Sky and Angel of Peace.
The intro of the latter is reminiscent of 
Hendrixs Little Wing, and the recurrent 
theme of cosmic mystery reflects a similar 
trend found in much of Hendrixs work, 
especially that on his immortal Electric 
Ladyland album. The swirling, ethereal 
quality of this album reminds me of the 
great lost art of psychedelia, and of bands
like Hawkwind and Magma. The theme of 
good vs. evil runs throughout Beyond the 
Astral Skies, the light of good dispelling 
the dark of evil, as opposed to the childish 
satanism spewed forth by bands such as Mer
cyful Fate. But fear not that this disk is a 
Jerry Falwell-type sermon it is rather an in
spiring journey through space and time.
Roths voice has softened on this album, 
and at times he sounds remarkably like Aldo 
Nova. Flechsichs vocals are sharper, more 
intense, and the two voices blend with the 
often present harmony vocals to complement 
the smooth instrumentals. The keyboards 
are almost always in the background, setting 
the mood rather than pounding out a beat, 
as is the case with the techno-pop that 
somehow finds its way onto vinyl these days.
Sun shine through the 
mountains 
Moon shine through the sea 
Melt down those icebergs 
Then youll he free 
In the Garden of Peace
Icebreaker, 
Electric Sun
The opening track, The Night the 
Master Comes, sets the mood for the whole 
album with Roths strong yet not overpower
ing guitar and impressive recreation of a 
violent storm, reminiscent of the Night on 
Bald Mountain sequence in Fantasia. The 
third song, Why? begins with a solo piano, 
with a baroque, Bach sort of sound. The last 
song on the first side, Return (Chant of 
Angels), is almost purely instrumental with 
Roth on acoustic guitar, accompanied by 
continued on page 14
azz quartet: smooth sounds from Rare Silk
y TERI BREIER
tan Staffwriter
The vocal group Rare Silk defies all conntional categorization. Are they jazz? 
ell, yes, but. . . Rock? Not exactly. . . 
nk? Sometimes. . .
This diversity is demonstrated in their se
nd album, American Eyes. With selecns ranging from Thelonius Monk to Jimi 
endrix to originals, all arranged for Rare 
ks unique style, this album has something 
entertain almost every cype of music lover. 
The group is headed by Todd Buffa, who 
gs bass and arranges most of their vocals. 
e other members include a female tenor, 
fbara Reeves, alto Marilynn Gillaspie, 
dher sister, Gaile Gillaspie, on soprano. 
Part of Rare Silks uniqueness can be atbuted to those with whom they share the 
e Instrumentals for their own sake are 
integral part of the groups sound, on this 
uni as well as on their first (New Weave). 
The backbone of their accompaniment is: 
chael Berry (drums), Kip Knepper (bass) 
^ Eric Gunnison (keyboards)-these three 
mPose the Rare Silk Trio and travel with 
e vocalists on tour. Other well-known
dio
unis.musicians also appear on both
American Eyes opens with the catchy 
Ps Ahead tune, Oops!, set to original 
Cs by Buffa. A sample: And while the 
y you walk still makes me doublee / hs what happens when you talk that 
^esnie turn away ... It hasnt changed, 
Prearranged, redesigned. . . / Lookyou and knowing what you do too 
A lively synthesizer solo com*ent$ the unexpected chromatic 
nes that you wont be able to get out 
mind.\\\^v.y.v.v.Y.v.y.v.y.v.v
The next two cuts are notable remakes of 
standards. Watch What Happens (Michel 
LeGrand) begins with some mind-blowing 
improvisatory scats, using non-melodic 
sounds. In this form of counterpoint, both 
creativity and concentration enable the 
voices to complement and play off each 
other. The live performance version stret
ches this portion of the song to about five 
minutes, but on the album it leads almost 
immediately to the lyrics. Throughout the 
entire piece, the vocalists use their voices as 
instruments, even percussion, which gives an 
old standard a new twist. Thelonius Monks 
Round Midnight gets a complete 
facelift-Buffas arrangement calls for four 
voices and bass guitar. . . only. This, coupled 
with a lyric version by Babs Gonzales, in
stead of Bernie Hanighens popular lyrics, 
makes Round Midnight virtually 
unrecognizable. The effect is spare, controll
ed, and just a bit eerie.
The opening calypso/reggae beat of 
Hello (Buffa, Kim Stone) evokes images 
of Jamaica and pina coladas. But the song 
takes a turn somewhere and ends up with 
a Gospel sound. This intriguing, danceable 
number features excellent drums and per
cussion, including a spirited marimba solo. 
Along with the title track, Hello probably 
has the widest appeal to contemporary 
listeners.
American Eyes (Buffa, Berry) is a 
cynical response to the rush of patriotic Top 
40 songs flooding the market recently.
I guess we grew up believing 
In television love 
& with the bomb shelter 
backyard
Myth, lurking up above.....................
,,*THe*moving^ctur*lt^T,Koya^ty,,,,,,
Rare Silk (1. to r.): Barbara Reeves, Marilynn Gillaspie, Todd Buffa, Gaile Gillaspie.
Satisfy our souls.
I know we hope itll be O.K.
Well see how it goes.
Although sporting a danceable rock beat 
that almost belies the message of the words, 
a wild guitar solo by John Scofield halfway 
through emphasizes the confusion of an 
America gone astray.
Stanley Turrentine, a Pittsburgh-born 
musician, composed Storm, wit! alto 
Marylynn Gillaspie providing original lyrics. 
Storm sets the listener in a South 
American rain forest, complete with large 
birds and native tribesmen. Synthesized steel 
drums add to Manola Badrenas effective 
percussion playing. When Rare Silk per
formed this live at the Holiday House in 
Monroeville last month, each vocalist 
sported a percussion instrument (claves, 
cowbell), combining for a very exotic sound. 
A noteworthy soprano saxophone solo by 
Jack Waltrip adds to the sultry effect.
Next is a Jimi Hendrix song, Up Fiom
solo and includes nice vocal harmonics and 
solos. The mood is very haunting at times 
and the lyrics despairing, telling a tale of 
the smell of a world that is burned.
The last song on the album, Burn It! 
(Buffa), sings of hope. Talk was thicker 
than sand / Wayward glances were 
real / Dark seductions adrift / In a sea of 
uneven sighs; but then, . . . its a time to 
let the bird fly. .. its time to start a 
new / Song of new singing / Of straight 
ahead on This selection, complete with 
a string ensemble and 14 extra voices, ends 
the album appropriately on an upbeat note.
Rare Silk, although based in Colorado, 
has made several local appearances recent
ly, including the Holiday House and the 
Boardwalk. They will be performing tomor
row night, May 1, on the California State 
College campus, at 8 p.m., and will be tour
ing throughout the year.
A mencan Eyes is definitely a joy to listen 
to; if you discover one new performing
V  Wife * SkiWVYM  Vegfct* ViMV * Wnk'-kyl "bas* ^p this^mmf-, mal(e Rare Silk (he one.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanApril 30, 1985
Favorable response to The Beggars' Open
By JONATHAN STEELE
Special to The Tartan
CMUs production of The Beggars Opera 
was an opportunity for Pittsburgh residents 
to see Broadway style entertainment. The 
energy and production levels were the 
highest of the season, and performances by 
CMU Dramats were at their best. Drama 
Department Chairman Mel Shapiro directed 
with enormous energy and mercurial 
creativity.
John Gays The Beggars Opera, created 
the genre of Ballad Opera. It was a satire
of Italian Opera, Sentimental Comedy, and 
High Tragedy  all popular forms of the 
period. Its music was based mainly on 
familiar folk-tunes and ballads, with ap
propriately rewritten lyrics.
The Spectator
Gay turns upside down previous concep
tions of right and wrong, good and bad, 
aristocratic/bourgeois and plebian. His chief 
criminal, Peacham, behaves like any good
D6HaAL
ASSOCIATES
Drs. Alex Lowy and I.B. Mandel
Cosmetic And Preventive Family Dentistry
3708 Fifth Avenue 
Medical Arts Bldg., Suite 519 Oakland
Days and Evenings 681-2115
bourgeois, and his hedonistic hero, 
MacHeath, is as aristocratic a leading man 
as there is. Gay satirizes the materialistic 
ethic developing in England with the rise of 
industry and capitalism. Polly was a 
caricature of the typical sentimental heroine. 
Her parents reaction to her plans for mar
riage to MacHeath is a hilarious reversal of 
normal parents.
On a political level, Peacham stood for 
Robert Walpole, the Prime Minister. In reac
tion to his rough treatment in The Beggars 
Opera, Walpole instigated severe censorship 
in the English theater, which continued for 
two hundred years.
Director Shapiro was very inventive in his 
staging and interpretation. He cut and rear
ranged the script liberally and included ex
cerpted material from Brechts Threepenny 
Opera. The songs of Brecht and Weill had 
an effective, contemporary resonance. 
Another technique employed was a 
Pirandellian play-wi thina-play device. The 
production became a contemporary touring 
company rehearsing The Beggars Opera. 
Since some members of the company prefer
red doing The Threepenny Opera, in
teresting debates of the merits of each show
Statistical and Reporting Software 
for IBM PC/XT and AT*
SPSS/PC is the most comprehensive statistical 
package available for performing simple or complex 
tasks, regardless of data size. It maintains feature 
and language compatibility with mainframe SPSS, 
while optimizing for the PC environment.
Designed to maximize your productivity, SPSS/PC 
offers three-letter truncation of commands; the ability to 
batch process commands; save and enter commands 
in groups; receive on-line help; redirect input and output 
to screen, disk and/or printers and more.
Statistics range from simple descriptive to complex 
multivariate, including Multiple Regression, ANOVA, 
Factor and Cluster analysis. Loglinear and nonparametric procedures are also included.
Simple facilities allow transfer of files between 
SPSS/PC and programs like Lotus 1-2-3, dBase II and 
SAS. A complete Report Writer, plotting facilities 
and communications program for mainframes round 
out a fully integrated product.
For more information, contact our Marketing 
Department at:
SPSS Inc., 444 N. Michigan Avenue,
Chicago, IL 60611. 312/329-3500.
In Europe: SPSS Benelux B.V., P.O. Box 115,
4200 AC Gorinchem, The Netherlands.
Phone: + 31183036711. TWX. 21019.
VISA, MasterCard and American Express accepted.
PRODUCTIVITY RAISED TO THE HIGHEST POWER'
SPSS/PC runs on the IBM PC/XT with 320K memory and a hard disk, and IBM PC/AT with hard disk An 8087 co-processor is recommended Contad.SPSS Inc for other compatible computers. IBM PC/XT and PC/AT are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation dBase II is a trademark of Ashton Tate 1-2-3 is a trademark ot Lotus Development Corporation SAS is a registered trademark of SAS Institute, Inc SPSS and SPSS/PC are trademarks of SPSS Inc. for its proprietary computer softwarec Copyright 1935, PSS Inc
ensued. However, this notion did notw 
as well as it could have because the motjj 
tion for the restructuring was not clear  
was a minor quibble because CMUs prod 
tion of The Beggars Opera was fast pace 
well-performed, and vastly entertaining
The cast was a uniformly good ensembiJ 
Excellent performances abounded 
eluding Burke Moses as Peachum, pJ 
Schoeffler as MacHeath, Pamela Windl 
as Polly, Court Whisman as Manny, 
Kittredge as Lucy, James Anthony ShantaJ 
Lockit, Richel Etterman as Jenny, rj 
Wood as Filch, Natalie E. Carter as 
Peachum, and an enigmatic Angela mo 
ducci as Mrs. Trapes.
The Set Design by Steve Arnold wase 
traordinary. The thrust stage built for t 
production was quite helpful in the normal 
shallow Kresge Theater. Costumes by Daw 
Gregory were quite good, althouj 
MacHeath could have been more 
cavalier. Lights by Alan Schlossberg wor| 
ed well, as did Nancy Blumsteins Sou 
Design. The Music Direction was by] 
Lockhart, with Orchestration by 
Lockhart and Ian Gallagher. Billy Wils 
Choreography was professional and cleaj
The Beggars Opera was a Drama Dep, 
ment mainstage production presentedm\ 
Kresge Theater April 11-27, 1985.
Electric Sunl
continued from page 13
background voices blending perfectly,' 
song also features dazzling spacey sound j 
fects, akin to those of the intro to Bij 
Thorpes Children of the Sun, a songti 
shares the spirit of this album.
Perhaps the most interesting peice ont| 
album is Eleison, which means havei 
cy. The powerful strains of a pipe organ i| 
troduce the track, soon joined by the ( 
ing, soaring voices of a choir. All the lyi 
are in Latin, which lends them an air I 
mystery. This track segues straight intotj 
final peice, Son of Sky, a climactic, hopi 
close the this epic work.
It is interesting that the segues bet# 
songs are never really silent, the instr 
tals from the previous song blend 
smoothly into those of the next. This albij 
is a work of epic beauty of the sort th 
rarely seen in these days of bland con 
cialism and the quest for zillion-selli 
singles. Buy it and experience the mu 
the spheres.
fc
AI Datri is a sophomore hacker d 
wrote this over the space of three dty 
always at 4 in the morning. Find ' 
and give him a hug. He needs i 
Otherwise, why would he carry ar0Ult 
a teddy bear?
IF VOU NEED A 
LAWYER
CALL683  3555
 t VMli V I Als IIIVOKO
 rtKMtVW IN JI ' K V ( KIMI \ VI I AVV I HI Ai
MURRAY A. FELDERM I OK M l \l I .AM
3447 Forbes Ave. 
OAKLAND

---------------------------------------------------

April 30, 1985The Tartan-Page 15
l, Handel, and Scarlatti
aroque music weekend begins Friday
hree
A festive weekend of baroque music is 
hedukd for May 3 through May 5 in Pitt(lirgh as the Renaissance and Baroque 
iety of Pittsburgh presents a series of 
baroque music concerts in honor of the 
Oth anniversary of the births of Bach, 
andel, and Scarlatti. Bach orchestral 
ites, Handel concerti, and Scarlatti harphord sonatas are among the planned 
usical compositions to be presented.
The weekend begins with a May 3, Friy evening performance by Tafelmusik with 
iprano Judith Nelson and Hilliard Ensemles Paul Hiliier (baritone) and John Potter 
nor) as soloists. The three soloists will join 
> orchestra in presenting Bachs Coffee 
ntata. In addition, Hiliier and Potter will 
ch sing a Bach aria with members of 
felmusik. The orchestra will also present 
achs Concerto for Two Violins and Orestra. The evening of Bach compositions 
begin at 8:30 pm and be presented at 
od Hall. The hall is located at 125 North 
aig Street in the Oakland section of 
ttsburgh.
On Saturday, May 4, Tafelmusik will pre
nt Scartlatti sonatas for harpsichord, 
andels Concerto Grosso from Opus 6, 
chs Orchestral Suite no. 1, and a selecn of Handels German songs featuring 
ain soprano soloist Judith Nelson. This 
mcert will also be presented at Synod Hall, 
ginning at 8:30 pm.
The feature concert will be held Sunday, 
ay 5 at 2:30 pm at Carnegie Music Hall, 
dith Nelson and the Hilliard Ensemble 
in Tafelmusik for an authentic baroque 
rformance of Bachs Passion According to 
John. The Hilliard Ensembles Rogers 
ivey-Crump (tenor) will sing the role of the 
angelist, Paul Hiliier will sing Christus, 
d David James (counter tenor), Michael 
orge (bass), and John Potter will sing the 
ias. Judith Nelson will sing the soprano 
ias. The accompanying choir will be the 
ttsburgh Camarata, the citys resident 
oir which has specialized in delicate baroe choral work. Donald Franklin, Professor
Thanks,
Mohan, Karen, Chris, Judy, 
Peter, John, Steve, Katrin, 
Mark, Al, Olve, Dan, Joe, 
Mike, Neil, Jill, Bonnie, 
Kathie, Joe, Bob, Hugh, 
David, Lois and everyone else.
May you always find the 
strength to carry on.

[Attention Photographers
B&w Fiber Paper 
Available at 
discount price 
call
The Darkroom 
232 Penn Avenue 
ptsburgh, PA 15222
261-6056
of Music as the University of Pittsburgh, will 
direct the performance. Dr. Franklin is a 
musicologist who has specialized in baroque 
music practice, most notably Bach. The per
formance location, Carnegie Music Hall, is 
located at 440 Forbes Avenue in the Oakland 
section of Pittsburgh.
The Pittsburgh Renaissance and Baroque 
Society offers two admission schedules for 
the general public. A weekend package for 
a subscription to the series is $25.00 for 
general admission and $18.00 for student ad
mission. The weekend package also includes 
a complementary ticket to a 2:30 pm Satur
day matinee performance at Synod Hall by 
the Hilliard Ensemble featuring Thomas 
Tallis Lamentations offeremiah and a com
plementary ticket to a Saturday evening 
post-concert reception for Tafelmusik at the 
College Club, located at 143 North Craig 
Street, hosted by the Canadian Consulate 
General. Also, individual concert tickets can 
be purchased for $10.00 for general admis
sion and $7.00 for student admission. Satur
day natinee performance ticket prices are 
$8.00 and $5.00 respectively. Tickets can be
purchased at the door. Subscription tickets 
can be purchased Friday eveining. Tickets 
can also be ordered in advance by sending 
a check or money order to the Renaissance 
and Baroque Society of Pittsburgh, P.O. Box 
10156, Pittsburgh, PA 15232. For informa
tion, call 731-3944.
The concert series spotlights a season in 
Pittsburgh which features Bach, Handel, 
and Scarlatti. The participants in the con
certs bring a wealth of scholarship, training, 
and experience in authentic stylistic inter
pretations to the performances. Whenever 
possible, original instruments are used. If
these are not obtainable, replicas made by 
master craftsmen to exact specifications 
taken from originals are used instead. Also, 
in the search for the composers intentions, 
every possible source of information is ex
plored. Original manuscripts or their fac
similes, copies of first editions, and treatises 
by composers on how to perform their music 
are studied and documents recording the 
number of people playing a particular work 
are taken to heart. If we are to value the 
original intentions of the composer, it seems 
only just that the best efforts be put forth 
to recreate the intended atmosphere.
COUPON
CONDOMS CONTRACEPTIVE CREAMS & JELLIES
10-40% Below Retail  Our Regular Price!
Send 3.75 for a prepaid 4.44 oz. tube of your choice, 
and/or $5.00 for a variety pack of 12 condoms.Please check your preference and return this coupon with your name, address, check or money order to:
? Koromex Jelly
? Koromex Cream
? Orthogynol
? Condom Variety
. ? Orthocreme 
C Gynol II Jelly
? Koromex Crystal Clear
? Mail Order Form Only
ZPG-SEATTLE 
DEPT. MUCB 
4426 Burke N. 
SEATTLE, WA 98103 
One order per customer 
(non-profit)
THIS BUD'S 
Km Youh
BUDWEISER<S*KING OF BEERS*ANHEUSER BUSCH. INC "ST LOUIS
J

---------------------------------------------------

To all students:
WANT TO KEEP YOUR 
PARENTS INFORMED BUT 
TOO BUSY TO WRITE?
Send them a Tartan subscription!
GRADUATING 
SENIORS
Dont miss The Tartan just 
because youre leaving school
Mail in the subscription form any time before 
the next semester and get The Tartan delivered!
| I want a subscription for ? one semester $15 ? two semesters $25 j
I
I mailing address 
I
I billing address_
I (if different)I_____________________________________________________________________J
Send to the Tartan, CMU, Skibo 103, Student Activities, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Vegetarian Delight Indian Restaurant
4141 Old Wm. Penn Highway 
Monroeville, Pennsylvania 
Telephone: 372-7404
INDIAN RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN:
DOSA, IDLI, VADA, ETC.
Enjoy An Unique Experience
SNACK, DINNER, LUNCH
WE CATER FOR:
Weddings, Parties, Special Functions
..... .... ........................................ . -------------- ...,, .........................................................................

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

tminsu Gprpgc la fsmsnnpi
Benetton Sunglass s wit ^Polaroid Lense 00

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

See the new summer sportswear 
at the benefon shop near /.MU
Photo Oliviero Toscani. For sns: 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153.
