Inside
Calendar....
Classified...
Comics......
Diversions...
Forum.......
Living.......
Sports.......
..L12
....11
....L4
Features
Celebrate CMU 
women 
see page LICa lendr.DinvsnDond 1L4o4eDn1L.D
Sports
IM basketball 
champions crowned 
 see page 12
Forum
Writer questions 
downsizing 
 see page 5
THE TARTAN
Volume 90. Issue 19Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 190611 March 1996
They couldve danced all night
btndn MnDo4i4oonvsnDond UL4o4eDn1L.D
CMUs ballroom dance club hosted Its sixth annual Spring Fling 
last Saturday. See page L7 for related story.
Alumni receive guilty verdicts
By BECKY A. COWSER
Tartan News Editor
On February 29, three Pi 
Lambda Phi alumni were con
victed of furnishing alcohol to a 
minor, and they now face sentenc
ing that could land them each a 
maximum of one year in prison. 
William Halpin, 23, Stephen 
Marting, 24, and Thomas 
Hummel, 24, were brought before 
Judge Raymond Novak in a non
jury trial, and will face sentencing 
May 1.
The convictions followed the 
1994 death of Justin Chambers, 
a fellow PiLam brother. Cham
bers, 19, died of alcohol poisoning 
on December 10, 1994 after at
tending a PiLam Christmas 
party. His blood alcohol content 
was 0.54 when he died, well over 
the legal limit (.10) for drivers in 
Pennsylvania.
Campus Police filed criminal 
charges [against the three]... and 
the judge found that the evidence 
showed their guilt beyond a rea
sonable doubt.... They violated 
state law, said Director of CMU 
Security, James LaPaglia. I also
speculate a good chance of a civil 
case, he said.
When asked if the convictions 
were fair, Greek Council Presi
dent Jeff Polega said, They did 
provide alcohol using house 
funds, which is wrong, but I also 
believe there was an extreme lack 
of responsibility on Justin 
Chamberss part. If hes choosing 
to drink alcohol under age, hes 
taking that responsibility upon 
himself.
Polega believes that the convic
tion in the Justin Chambers case 
is already affecting the Greek 
community. As a community, we 
are afraid that if we dont change 
our social policy drastically, the 
University will do it for us, he 
said. The conviction itself affects 
the University less than the nega
tive press they received over the 
case, but I would hope that indi
vidual chapters are making an 
example out of this and tighten
ing up their risk management, 
he said.
Risk managers at the house 
level are supposed to enforce the 
Inter-fraternity Council (IFC) 
social policy in the house. That
includes not serving [alcohol] to 
individuals under 21, and man
aging bar and door check  see
ing that individuals who are 
overly intoxicated are not served 
any more alcohol, and that ex
tremely intoxicated individuals 
are not allowed into the party, 
Polega said.
There could be more risk man
agement done, but individuals who 
have a say in each houses social 
policy make that harder for [risk 
managers], Polega said.
IFC Risk Manager Adam 
Kenney said, The past semester 
we spent a lot of time adjusting 
our social policy to be like those of 
other universities around the 
country.... It wasnt a direct ef
fect of [the Justin Chambers] in
cident  that was one of many 
incidents that has forced us to 
adjust our social policy to make 
us a safer place on campus. 
Kenney believes the conviction of 
the PiLam alumni has no bearing 
on the Greek community. The 
social policy still needs to be 
changed, he said.
The Greek community is form
ing a committee of representa
tives who will meet in the next 
month to rewrite the entire social 
policy. From top to bottom  
every little rule will be rewrit
ten, said Kenney. In order to 
help with this process, executive 
IFC members attended a national 
conference on Greek leadership 
and also brought in Judge Mitch 
Crane to speak about fraternity 
liability and risk management. 
He was brought in to, wake 
people up and get people aware 
that CMU is behind in the way 
they run social policy ... unless 
we deal with it, were going to be 
stuck in a situation we dont want 
to be in, said Kenney. The meet
ing wasnt closed to the general 
campus community, but Kenney 
said efforts were focused mainly 
to get the fraternity community 
there.
When Justin first passed 
away, people tended to forget 
about it. Maybe this will drive it 
home a little more. [Fraternities] 
are responsible for every mem
ber in their house  every 
brother is responsible for every 
other brother and everyone they 
Alumnu nuu irecvigvret ymdu s
Rally protests Cuban embargo
By TREVOR MEYEROWITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Cuba Si, Embargo No was what pro
testers chanted in the rain outside of the 
Carnegie Mellon Software Engineering 
Institute building last Wednesday.
Were here today to call an end to the 
provocations against Cuba.... Were here 
today to say U.S. hands off Cuba, said 
Sandy Sherman, the head of the Pitts
burgh for Cuba Coalition, and the orga
nizer of the SEI rally.
The rally was held to protest the tight
ening of sanctions against Cuba by the 
U.S. government in retaliation to a Feb
ruary 24 downing of two planes near 
Cuban air space. The planes were flown 
by members of The Brothers to the 
Rescue, a Cuban-American group that 
has helped rescue Cuban rafters and 
dropped anti-Castro leaflets over 
Havana.
One of the speakers, Dennis Brutus, 
professor of Afrikanus studies at the 
University of Pittsburgh, described the 
incident when he said, There have been 
numerous provocations before, and so 
this was one occasion where the Cuban 
government took action. Of course we 
dont want to see people killed anywhere, 
but to say that the United States has
international law on its side is a lie.... 
People have to be very clear. We [the 
protesters] are on the side of right.
The Helms-Burton Bill, which 
strengthens the sanctions against Cuba, 
was passed by the Senate last Tuesday 
and was approved by the House on the 
following day. The bill also discourages 
international investment in Cuba. Presi
dent Clinton has said that he will sign 
the bill.
There is a lot of international opposi
tion to the embargo, and even if we are 
just a few  gathered like chickens in 
the rain  I can tell you that there are 
millions across the world that are op
posed to the legislation, said Brutus.
The protesters also said that Cuba 
was simply defending its sovereignty. 
We unconditionally support what the 
Cuban government did, because we 
thought it defended the national sover
eignty of not only Cuba, but of the world, 
said Malcom Jerrod, a member of the 
Young Socialists.
The protesters said that they felt that 
the U.S. is engaging in imperialist poli
cies against Cuba. We are a small group, 
but we are decided that we will continue 
in the struggle against U.S. imperial
ism, said Jose Moreno, professor of psyAlumnu nuu iRapt ymdu s
City council vetoes Pitt street closing
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Staffwriter
Conflict ensued early this month 
after City Council President Jim Ferlo 
called Pitts recent attempt to close 
Bigelow Boulevard a land-grab. 
However, Ken Service, Director of. 
Communications for the 
University of Pittsburgh, 
said the University viewed 
the closure as a move for 
additional green space.
Service said that Pitt and 
the City Planning 
Commision had agreed to a 
two month trial closure of ^ 
Bigelow Boulevard in order 
to beautify the campus and surround
ing area. According to a February 22 
Port Authority Transit news release, 
Effective Monday, March 4, Port Au
thority Transit will detour four Oak
land bus routes due to the closure of 
Bigelow Boulevard to vehicular traf
fic between Fifth and Forbes avenues.
However, neither buses iior any 
other vehicular traffic has been de
toured, and Bigelow Boulevard re
mains open. On March 1, just three 
days before the proposed closure but
over a week after the Port Authoritys 
news release, City Council President 
Jim Ferlo put a quick stop to the pro
posal.
The road closure is completely inap
propriate and illegal, Ferlo said. He 
further explained that roads cannot be 
closed without first running a bill
The road closure is completely 
inappropriate and illegal. 
 Jim Ferlo, City Council 
President
through city council. There is now such 
a bill pending for the temporary closure 
of Bigelow Boulevard.
Ferlo said he waited so long to act 
against the road closure because he did 
not know it was going to take place until 
recently reading about it in The Ob
server. Ferlo was unaware of the road 
closure despite the fact that a news 
conference was held, announcing a whole 
seriesofOaklandimprovementiniatives, 
including the closure.
Pitt has been trying to create more of
a campus environment and transfrom 
the look of Oakland, said Service. It is 
planning to build a park and possibly 
student housing over the demolished 
site of a building at the intersection of 
Fifth and Bouquet. It is also research
ing the practicality of creating under
ground parking in Schenley Plaza and 
turning the current park
ing lot into another park, 
according to Service.
Service also said that the 
news conference occurred 
three weeks ago, and the 
closure was scheduled to 
take effect last Monday, 
March 4.
However, the Director of 
the Department of City Planning, 
Eloise Hirsh, whose office authorized 
PATs detours, said that Ferlo was not 
invited to the news conference because 
Oakland is not his district.
Ferlo cited more reasons to oppose 
the closure, other than what he called 
Pitts clandestine attempt to close 
Bigelow.
Closing Bigelow will cause major 
disruption to overall traffic flow and 
eliminate over 100 on-street public 
Alumnu nuu cogrt ymdu s
CMU loses Heinz School professor to breast cancer
By TOMMY CHEUNG
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Martcia Wade, assistant pro
fessor of economics and public 
Policy, died of breast cancer on 
Monday, February 26,1996. She 
was admitted to the hospital on 
Friday, February 23, after com
plaining of back pain. Once in 
the hospital, however, it was dis
covered that she had extensive 
breast cancer. She passed away 
early Monday morning.
At CMU, Wade excelled as a 
teacher and as a researcher. She 
earned the respect and friend
ship of many of her fellow faculty 
Members.
Barbara Lazarus, associate pro
vost for academic projects, said, 
At Heinz, Martcia was all that we 
expected and more: a terrific 
teacher, a strong researcher, and 
a truly wonderful person. Martcia 
always took the extra time to let 
students know how much she cared 
about each as an individual.
Wade was equally well respected 
and very popular among her many 
students. In 1990, nominated by 
her students, she won the Heinz 
Schools teaching award. A recent 
vote has decided that the award 
will be renamed after her.
Susan Ambrose, director of the 
University Teaching Center, 
said, She was committed to each 
student learning. She was per
sonable and approachable.... 
They believed they were her pri
ority, and I felt that way too.
Wade came to the Heinz school 
in 1986. She received her BS in 
biological sciences from Stanford 
University in 1976, her MA in 
health administration and plan
ning from the University of Washington in 1978, and her PhD in 
business administration from the 
Graduate School of Business at 
the University of California at 
Berkeley in 1986.
Her research at the Heinz 
School included the economics of 
health care, which studied who
should receive health care, at 
what cost, and the effects of 
statess Medicaid policies on ac
cess to health care.
Wade also conducted research 
on treating recurrent depression 
with Mark Kamlet, Dean of H. 
John Heinz III School of Public 
Policy and Management. Their 
research included the usage of 
dings, therapy, and the combina
tion of both methods to treat re
current depression.
Kamlet said, She [was] very 
organized, calm, effective, sin
cere, graceful, and easy to like.
Wades professional experi
ence included corporate plan
ning for the Kaiser Foundation 
Health Plan, Group Health Co
operative of Puget Sound, and 
the. Easter Seal Society of 
Alameda County.
She was also a member of the 
American Economics Associa
tion, the American Public Health 
Association, the Health Econom
ics and Research Organization,
and the Operations Research 
Society of America.
After working with the Urban 
Institute in Washington, D.C. 
during 1990-1991, Wade then 
took a leave of absence to con
tinue her research in Washing
ton, D.C. She worked the last two 
years in the health policy center 
at the Urban Institute as a Se
nior Research Associate.
Wade is survived by her hus
band, Greg Eyring, and their two 
children, Katherine, age four, and 
Benjamin, seven months.
Two memory books are currently 
being assembled for each ofWades 
children. Anyone is welcome to 
send photographs, mementos, or 
letters detailing their relationship 
with Martcia Wade.
All entrees should be sent to: 
Kristin Kiser, 2709 Colston 
Drive, Chevy Chase, MD, 20815. 
Questions about submissions 
should be directed to Nancy 
Dewalt, secretary to Dean 
Kamlet, at x8-2160.
w4mDo.pg 4I oL. k.tdr lcL44i 
Martcia Wade was a celebrated Heinz school professor.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 March 1996
Page Z...
cuCubmP i.uMmP 
UMun mC mdu Hzz
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. March 9 
(AP)  George Burns, the wry, 
cigar-smoking comic who played 
straight man to Gracie Allen for 35 
years, then found new popularity 
when he won an Academy Award at 
age 80, died Saturday just weeks 
after turning 100. Burns, whose 
health had been declining in recent 
years, died at 10 a.m. at his home, 
said his manager, Irving Fein. He 
was with his son, Ronnie Burns, a 
nurse and a housekeeper, Fein said. 
His career lasted more than 90 years, 
spanning vaudeville, radio, movies, 
television, nightclubs, best-selling 
books, recordings and video. He was 
the oldest male actor ever to receive 
an Oscar. At age 98, he was still 
delighting audiences with his per
fectly timed quips, many of them at 
his own expense. (Im doing better 
with 18-year-old women now than 
when I was 18.) Age to me means 
nothing, he once said. I cant get 
old: Im working.... When Im out in 
front of an audience, all that love 
and vitality sweeps over me and I 
forget my age.
But declining health ended his 
performing career after he was in
jured in a fall in July 1994. The 
100th birthday shows were canceled. 
More recently, ailing with the flu, 
Burns was unable even to be a spec
tator at a gala in his honor a few
days before he turned 100.
Burnss career was at a crossroads 
after Gracie  the ultimate ditzy co
median and the love of Burnss life  
retired in 1958. She died in 1964 and 
he never remarried.' He developed his 
own act as a single, starring in TV 
specials and playing Las Vegas with 
such discoveries as AnnMargret and 
Bobby Darin. His popularity soared in 
the 1970s, with his Oscar for the aging 
vaudevillian in The Sunshine Boys 
touching off a string of movies, books 
and sold-out nightclub appearances. 
He said he accepted the role in the Neil 
Simon comedy, his first movie in more 
than 35 years, for the same reason he 
continued performing after Gracie re
tired: You cant quit show business  
not at my age.
Ive been in show business all my 
life and Ive loved every minute of it, 
Burns said when he accepted the 
award. It proves one thing  if you 
stay in the business long enough, and 
ifyougettobe old enough, you get to be 
new again.
That movie role was followed by star
ring parts in the Oh, God series, Just 
You and Me, Babe, Going in Style, Sgt. 
Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band and 
18 Again!
In January 1994, at his 98th birth
day party in Las Vegas, Burns re
marked: Its nice to be here. At 98, its 
nice to be anywhere.
Fire evacuees return 
to rescue loved pets
WEYAUWEGA, Wis. March 8 (AP) 
As a train wreck blazed away for the 
fifth day Friday, the National Guard 
decided to issue flak jackets to resi
dents and take them back to their homes 
in armored vehicles to rescue their starv
ing, freezing pets. Rick Gorchal 34, was 
eager to save his dog, Lady. We have a 
son thats 11. The dog is 9. The dog has 
been a part of the family for nine years, 
he said. Six armored vehicles were 
brought in and flak jackets were issued 
for fear that propane gas in the derailed 
cars could explode, killing anyone within 
800 feet and causing property damage 
1-1/2 miles away. Homes within 1,000 
feet of the wreck remained off-limits. 
Possibly hundreds of cats and dogs were 
left behind when 1,700 people were 
hastily evacuated Monday after a Wis
consin Central Ltd. train derailed, ig
niting propane in 14 derailed cars. Ex
perts said the propane fire could take
three weeks to burn out. Natural gas to 
the central Wisconsin town was cut as a 
safety precaution. A lot of them are 
anxious and theyre frustrated, said 
John Wells, a volunteer at the Red Cross 
shelter in Waupaca where about 770 
displaced people have registered. 
Theyre all worried about their pets. 
The Wisconsin National Guard 
planned to take 18 people at a time 
into the town, giving them just five 
minutes to grab their pets, Lt. Col. 
Tim Donovan said. A veterinarian 
stood by to provide immediate care for 
the animals. Susan Weiss sat in the 
nursery at the church, weeping after 
being told she could not get her cat 
because she lives too close to the de
railment. Weiss is disabled, and Kynda 
is her sole companion. Weiss said she 
had left the cat food bag out for some 
reason, but there were only about two 
tablespoons of water in Kyndas bowl.
Jack Kevorkian 
found innocent
PONTIAC, Mich. March 8  Dr. Jack 
Kevorkian was acquitted of assisted sui
cide Friday or helping two suffering pa
tients kill themselves by breathing car
bon monoxide through a mask. It was 
his second acquittal in two trials. The 
jury deliberated nine hours during two 
days. It found Kevorkian innocent in the 
deaths of Merian Frederick, 72, of Ann 
Arbor and Dr. Ali Khalili, 61, of subur
ban Chicago, in 1993. Frederick had Lou 
Gehrigs disease; Khalili suffered from 
bone cancer. Supporters in the court
room cheered, and Kevorkian turned 
and waved to quiet them. Id like to tell 
the jury the magnitude of what they 
accomplished there, the retired patholo
gist said. It is not even a right what 
we talking about. It is an inherent es
sence of human existence. The 67-yearold Kevorkian  who was charged un
der a now-expired law that was passed 
by the Legislature specifically to stop 
himcould have gotten up four years in 
prison on each of two counts. Kevorkian 
has acknowledged taking part in 27 sui
cides since 1990, including six in the 
past nine months. In 1994, the only 
other time the nations foremost advo
cate of doctor-assisted suicide stood trial 
for his actions, he was acquitted.
Kevorkians lawyer argued in the most 
recent case that the issue was the doctors 
intent: Michigans assisted-suicide ban, 
which expired in 1994, exempts some
one who provides medication or proce
dures that hasten death, so long as the 
intent was to relieve pain and not to kill.
Though he was vague about exactly 
,vhat he did other than witness them 
take their lives on his couch, he insisted 
death was the only option available to 
end their pain. He said Frederick and 
Khalili alone caused their deaths, by 
removing a clip on the tubing that al
lowed the poisonous gas to flow from a 
small, black tank into their plastic 
masks. He said he encouraged both to 
remove the mask if they changed their 
mind at the last moment. Relatives of 
Frederick and Khalili testified that they 
appreciated Kevorkians help and com
passion in ending their loved ones suf
fering. Prosecutors suggested Kevorkian 
did not fully explore other options with 
Frederick and Khalili and rushed to 
judgment about their conditions with
out consulting their doctors. Kevorkian 
said he has given up on getting other 
doctors to listen to him. He portrayed 
himself as a compassionate doctor who 
sometimes cries when he witnesses the 
deaths of those he has helped. Its not 
nice to see a human life ended, he said. 
But when the agonys ended, it amelio
rates what I feel. Prosecutors tried to 
convince iurors that assisted suicide was 
just the first step in his broader plan to 
gain public acceptance for experiment
ing on people before they die.
Kevorkian faces another trial, sched
uled to start April 1, in the deaths of two 
women in 1991. In those cases, prosecu
tors allege Kevorkian violated an un
written, common-law prohibition 
against assisted suicide. Before closing 
arguments began Thursday, Circuit 
Judge Jessica Cooper refused a defense 
request to dismiss the charges based on 
a federal appeals court ruling that struck 
down Washington states assisted sui
cide law. Wednesdays ruling affects the 
nine Western states covered by the 9th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals which 
does not include Michigan.
Live-fire exercise 
over Taiwan
TAIPEI, Taiwan March 9 (AP)  
Tightening the pressure on Taiwan, 
China plans to follow up its missile tests 
with menacing war games using live 
ammunition near the islands busy ship
ping routes.
Taiwans military said Saturday it was 
on alert, and its president accused Beijing 
of destabilizing prosperous east Asia. 
Beijing is trying to wipe out what it sees 
as a Taiwanese drive to dump the doc
trine of reunification with China and de
clare itself an independent state. China 
claims sovereignty over Taiwan, seat of 
the Nationalists who were driven off the 
mainland by Mao Tse-tungs Communists 
in 1949. The eight days of war games set 
to start Tuesday and using live ammuni
tion potentially are more menacing to 
Taiwan than the three missiles that 
landed on its doorstep Friday, and which 
were thought to carry dummy warheads. 
The 6,600-square-mile rectangle desig
nated for the air and sea exercise lies 
north ofTaiwans shipping routes to Hong 
Kong, the port that handles much of 
Taiwans trade with China in the absence 
of direct trading links between the two 
rivals. It was not immediately known 
whether ships would have to divert to 
avoid the mock battles, but the Chinese 
government asked foreign governments 
to warn their ships and aircraft away 
from the area.
Chinese moves are seen as a rehearsal 
for a blockade of Taiwans booming trade. 
Taiwanese industry has made it the 
worlds 14th largest trading power with 
the worlds second biggest foreign cur
rency reserves. Taiwans stock market 
has plunged repeatedly in the eight 
months since China started making men
acing military moves. Hou Chia-chu, an 
economics professor at Taiwans Soochow 
University, said Chinas moves had esca
lated from hitting the Taiwanese stock 
market to hammering at its overall 
economy. If such exercises were repeated 
indefinitely, deliveries of goods would 
become less reliable and import and 
export costs would rise, along with in
surance premiums for ships and airlin
ers, he said in an interview. No one will 
want to place (export) orders with Tai
wan because they wont want to get into 
the mess and undertake the rising costs.
Four-Day Forecast
Monday
Sunny with high in 
the lower 40s.
Tuesday pd
Sunny with high In 
upper 40s.
Wednesday
Mostly sunny with 
low in upper 20s.
Thursday
Mostly sunny high in 
the 50s.
Carnegie Almanac
Scientists clone 
sheep embryos
NEW YORK March 8 (AP)  In a 
feat never before accomplished in 
mammals, scientists have found a way 
to turn a laboratory dish full of cells 
into hundreds of genetically identical 
sheep.
Scientists in Scotland took cells from 
an embryo, grew thousands of copies in 
the lab and then used copies to produce 
sheep from ewes.
Experts said if the technique can be 
perfected, it will be a major gain in the 
ability to make genetic changes in live
stock for research and to quickly pro
duce animals that give more or better 
milk or meat, resist diseases or display 
other desirable traits. It is a great 
achievement, commented Robert H. 
Foote, professor emeritus of animal 
physiology at Cornell University in 
Ithaca, N.Y.
Currently, scientists can produce ge
netically identical farm animals by 
such techniques as breaking a single 
embryo into pieces and implanting 
each piece in a womb to form a new 
animal. But that approach yields fewer 
than 20 copies, rather than hundreds. 
Scientists can already plant genes into 
farm animals by injecting the genetic 
material into fertilized eggs. But the 
new technique can generate thousands 
of cells to receive genes, giving scien
tists many more chances to achieve 
successful gene transfers.
As a result, scientists would be able to 
insert genes more precisely, swap new 
genes for old or inactivate particular 
genes in an animal, said animal gene 
expert Caird Rexroad Jr. That would 
offer maj or advantages for studying farm 
animal genetics and eventually produc
ing better barnyard stock, said Rexroad, 
a research leader.
Mass-producing hundreds of ani
mals is still years away, one of the 
scientists, Ian Wilmut, said, because 
the technique is currently much too 
inefficient. The Nature paper reports 
the birth of only five lambs from hun
dreds of attempts. For other species 
the prospects are less clear because of 
differences in the biology of early de
velopment, he said.
Wilmut also said he doesnt know if it 
would work in people, adding that many 
scientists would consider this application 
unethical.
For the research, scientists isolated 
cells from sheep embryos and grew 
them in laboratory dishes. The cells 
grew into colonies, which were repeat
edly split up to form more and more 
cells. Then the researchers took un
fertilized eggs from ewes, pulled out 
the eggs genes, and fused the eggs to 
the laboratory-grown cells. These cells 
supplied the genes for the eggs, which 
were placed in ewes to grow into em
bryos and eventually be born.
hD4 2not4dni W.noL.D l.Dqtc. umii.otdp ndz 4oL.D p4mDc.p
50 YEARS AGO, March 6, 
1946: A large group of interested 
students began working on re
viving the Scotch and Soda orga
nization of pre-war years. The 
committee was planning a musi
cal review that would once again 
be part of Spring Carnival.
Students from all departments 
on campus were working on the 
show which was to include origi
nal songs, dances, and jokes.
Because so many students had 
good ideas, the committee 
planned on having a contest and 
awarding the best musical score 
and book.
25 YEARS AGO, March 4, 
1971: The 23rd Annual Intramu
ral Night was set aside to honor 
the IM champions from 27 differ
ent activities.
The evening also featured the 
two IM basketball championship 
games. However, the true high
light of the evening was to be a 
basketball game between the 
Pittsburgh Steelers and the CMU Intramural All-Stars.
The Pittsburgh Steelers TonsO-Beef averaged over 265 
pounds and were led by the high
scoring Dick Arndt and Sam 
Davis.
Officials for the game were ac
tually from the National Profes
sional Football league and the 
Pittsburgh Chapter of the East
ern Intercollegiate Football Offi
cials Association, which 
prompted the writer to indicate, 
the kick-off  oh, that is, the 
tip-off will be at 8:30 pm.
10 YEARS AGO, March 4, 
1986: Bill Arms, vice president 
for computing, hoped to see ad
vanced workstations available to 
CMU students at $3,000 a piece. 
At that point, it was to urge all
incoming freshmen to purchase a 
workstation, although it would 
not be mandatory.
For those who chose not to pur
chase workstations, Arms hoped 
to see 120 of the machines in 
public clusters running Andrew. 
At the time, there were only 23 
such machines available in pub
lic clusters. The biggest problem 
with increasing the number of 
public computers was finding 
space for the clusters.
FIVE YEARS AGO, March 
11,1991: For the second time 
in less than a month, the Hous
ing Office had to change the
locks in a dormitory due to the 
theft of master key. The sub
master key for Morewood ETower was stolen from the 
main desk in E-Tower. The 
theft forced a change in housings 
security policy. Duringthe hours 
that housing was open, students 
could no longer obtain a master 
key.
Instead, they had to obtain a 
spare key from the Housing Of
fice. During the rest of the day, 
they would have to contact secu
rity to open their door.
Compiled by 
MATTHEW Srhvgfr
SEPTEMBER 27, 1977/ISSUE 13: PEOPLE YOU OUGHTA KNOW 
FOLIO was a bi-weekly section of the Tartan featuring submissions from students. This is the 1977 flat

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 March 19963
Alumni await 
sentencing
irecvigvret 2b. ymdu H
invite to a party, said Brenden Clarke, 
IFC president.
Michael Murphy, Dean of Student 
Affairs, said, I believe the [fraternities] 
... are well aware of the laws, and I 
would anticipate that they [will] abide 
by them.
This semester there havent been a 
lot of infractions because people real
ize they cant bend the rules anymore. 
As sad as what happened to Justin and 
his brothers was, other chapters have 
to recognize that it could happen to 
them too, Clarke said.
Everyone we know under 21 who is 
served alcohol, we bring in and try to 
follow every case to find out how the 
alcohol is furnished to them. If we can 
prove how it happened, [those respon
sible] can face criminal charges, 
LaPaglia said. [Justin Chamberss] 
case really emphasizes that there is 
risk involved when you furnish alco
hol to someone under 21.
William Halpin, the only one of the 
three convicted still at CMU, could not 
be reached for comment. The president 
.of Pi Lambda Phi, Weston Hallman, 
refused to comment on the convictions.
Protesters oppose U.S. 
sanctions against Cuba
iRapt 2b. ymdu H
chology at the University of Pittsburgh, 
who also spoke at the rally.
The speakers didnt like the fact that 
relations with Cuba 
have become politi
cized. Every presi
dent must show how 
macho he is, and this 
may unfortunately 
be Clintons opportu
nity to show his 
toughness, said 
Brutus, implying 
that Clintons ac
tions are based on 
image, not morals.
The protesters called for fair treat
ment of Cuba. Not allowing Cuba to 
defend its sovereignty is a double stan
dard in international politics, said Tony 
Dutrow, a member of the Socialist Work
ers Party who attended the rally.
Protesters were furious that humani
tarian aid to Cuba has been blocked as 
part of U.S. policy. If the United States 
is really interested in humanitarian 
missions, why did customs officials seize 
computer terminals collected by Pas
tors for Peace and bound for Cuba to 
augment a United Nations project that 
would establish an on-line health care 
network on the island? was one ques
tion offered in a 
pamphlet handed 
out during the pro
test. A large ship
ment of computers 
to anti-Castro 
forces in Cuba was 
approved, while the 
medical computers 
werent allowed 
into Cuba.
The rally also in
cluded the reading 
of a letter from Mumia Abu-Jamal, a 
death row convict with many supporters 
who insist that he is a political prisoner. 
The letter urged people to protest the 
sanctions against Cuba. It also encour
aged people to support the hunger strike 
the Pastors of Peace have undertaken to 
protest the seizure of the computers 
headed for Cuba.
Protesters at the rally said that they 
wont be silent until the injustices against 
Cuba are set right.
CnuDt.d lg4dpvsnDond 5Do Vzto4D
President of City Council refuses Pitt detour
cogrt 2b. page H
parking spots which generate $40,000 a 
year for the city, the councilman said.
I dont think the University is at all 
sincere, Ferlo said about Pitts motiva
tion behind the move. As examples, he 
cited that the University has not consid
ered traffic islands, pedestrian under
passes, or other measures for students. 
Lastly, Ferlo said that statistically 
speaking, Bigelow is not the most dan
gerous road in the area.
Service admits that Pitt has not had
official communication with the city, 
though there have been meetings with 
the City Planning Commision. Ferlo said 
he had no knowledge of the order from 
the Port Authority. Hirsh said she did 
not anticipate any opposition to the move 
because she did not know that a tempo
rary road closure would be illegal. Also, 
she was surprised to learn that a date 
for a public hearing had already been 
set. Ferlo said this hearing would be 
open to the public and take place April 
2, at 6:30 pm at the Frick School.
If the Bigelow Boulevard experiment 
were to take effect it would not greatly 
alter Pitt or CMU shuttle routes. It 
would present minor changes to the 
following PAT routes: 54C North SideOakland-Mt. Oliver, 56U OaklandGreenfield, and 84A Herron Hill-Oakland. The greatest change to CMU 
students would involve the 64U Squir
rel Hill-Oakland route. For informa
tion about any PAT routes, riders 
should call the PAT Customer Service 
line at 442-2000.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Computer Science 
voted best school
With the insane workload most 
students endure in this school, it 
was not surprising that in a survey 
for the top universities in the na
tion, Carnegie Mellon came out as 
one of the best.
The School of Computer Science was 
ranked first in the nation in this years 
U.S. News & World Report magazines 
Americas Best Graduate Schools 
along with the programs at MIT, 
Stanford University and the Univer
sity of California at Berkeley. The 
school ranked first in software, sec
ond in artificial intelligence and in 
graphics, and third in hardware.
Yet, the School of Computer Science 
was not the only program that was 
considered top.
The college of engineerings status 
went up this year to the sixth best 
graduate program and the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration 
(GSIA) was declared the 14th best 
graduate business school in the na
tion.
The U.S. News & World Report 
rankings of graduate programs con
firm once again the world-class status 
of Carnegie Mellons programs in 
computer science, engineering and 
business, said Dr. Mehrabian. The 
No.l ranking of the School of Com
puter Science demonstrates that aca
demicians around the country recog
nize and respect the leadership role 
the school has assumed. Our engi
neering college continues its rapid 
rise in its rankings ... and our busi
ness school continues to be ranked 
among the elite graduate business 
programs in the country.
Pitt student 
commits suicide
University of Pittsburgh student 
John Solot, a 25-year-old under
graduate in the University of 
Pittsburghs College of Arts and Sci
ences, jumped off the 36th floor of 
the Cathedral of Learning last 
Thursday. He was found by a mem
ber of the custodial staff.
The police arrived on the scene 
after 6 am, and verified that it was 
a suicide case.
USX donates 
records to archive
At the 100th anniversary celebra
tion of he Carnegie, an actor posing 
as Andrew Carnegie announced that 
the Historical Society of Western 
Pennsylvania had attained the earli
est USX Corporation records, dating 
from 1853 to 1907.
Among the material donated to 
the Historical Society are the per
sonal and business correspondence 
of Andrew Carnegie, extensive docu
ments of Carnegies donations, 
showing charitable donations sum
ming $350 million throughout his 
lifetime.
These collections of documents will 
give the historical society status as 
one of the great archival collections 
in America, said Michael Weber, pro
fessor of urban history and public 
policy at Duquense University.
The chairman and CEO of USX 
was pleased that others would be 
able to learn about the corporations 
earliest days.
Compiled By 
JENNY GARCIA de OSUNA
Crime and Incident Report
3/2 ASSAULT/MEDICAL ES
CORT, 1:00 am. Campus Police 
reported to a possible fight at one 
of the fraternities. According to 
the victim, the attacker had gone 
to the house to visit friends. He 
had been drinking and started to 
argue with the victim before he 
punched the victim in the face.
The attacker then fled to a 
neighboring fraternity. Appar
ently, the fight stemmed from an 
argument earlier in the week.
Campus Police filed a report 
with Residence Life and told the 
victim that since they had not 
seen the incident, he would have 
to go to the magistrates office if 
he wanted to pursue the matter 
outside of University channels.
The victim sustained a cut 
above the left eye, which was ini
tially treated by EMS. Campus 
Police then transported the vic
tim to Presbyterian Hospital.
3/7 BURGLARY, 10:10 am. 
An officer responding to a trig
gered door alarm in one of the 
Hill dorms noticed a group of 
students driving away with a 
large flat-topped item in the 
back seat.
When the officer arrived at the 
dorm, he found that a television 
that had been purchased collec
tively by a group of residents had 
been stolen.
The next day, officers spotted 
the car believed to be used in the 
burglary and questioned the stu
dents inside.
Two days later, Campus Police 
spoke with the driver of the car 
who after a little while spontane
ously admitted to stealing the 
television. He also named the 
other students involved in the 
burglary and told police who had 
the television.
Police retrieved the television, 
and the others involved in the in
cident admitted to the crime. Ap
parently, they stole the television 
believing it belonged to CMU.
The students who owned the 
television chose not to press crimi
nal charges, but CMU citations 
were issued to the three students 
involved in the crime.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report under 
the following guidelines:
Campus Police Chief James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: theEditorin-Chief the News Editor, and the 
staffwriter who types the report.
All personal names of complain
ants, victims, suspects, and frater
nity names are omitted from the 
printed report. Ethnic descriptions 
and other personal details are given 
only in the context of a complete 
description.
Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
MATTHEW SOLITRO
Corrections/Clarifications...
In the February 26 issue, Diana Bartolotta was credited as Tartan Photo 
Editor. She is actually a Tartan photographer.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, 
please contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Kenneth J. Kraemer at 268-2111.i
WHAT DO YOU DO?
Are you lookingfor something to make yourtime here 
fulfilling? Do you want to do something meaningful 
while at CMU? Write for News. You don't need any 
experience, you only need the drive for excellence.
call 268-2111 or email TUI? T A DT A M 
es59 for details. 111/ 1AfU Ai>
IMMIGRANT LOTTERY55,000 Permanent Resident Visas
Ends March 12,1996
For more information contact: 
VENTRESCA & VENTRESCA 
Attorneys at Law 
555 Grant Street  Suite 373 
Pittsburgh  PA  15219 
(412) 261-536
All Visas  Permanent Residency  Naturalization
ARE YOU A TWIN?
Join Pitt Twin Study 
Healthy twins ages 18-27 may qualify 
Earn over $80 each 
Call 624-9106
Salomon Brothers
May/June 1996 Graduates
Salomon Brothers is an international investment banking firm that makes markets 
in securities and provides a broad range of underwriting, financial advisory, and 
research services to governments, corporations, and institutional investors.
The Calen drr. Dirvs of the oa1ln L4brtl MlUlwibm plswigtl4g is responsible for the 
development and implementation of a highly sophisticated workstation-based fixed income 
analytics system. The Yield Book is used by Salomon's Sales, Trading, and Research 
professionals as well as by many of the firms best clients in the process of quantifying and 
optimizing investment decisions. In response to an overwhelming demand for the Yield Book, 
the group is expanding its activities and is recruiting for a number of positions.
Quantitative Applications Developer
Academic Background: M.S. or Ph.D. in a quantitative field such as Operations Research,
Engineering, Mathematics, or Computer Science.
Additional Skills:Strong analytical and C programming skills are required. 
Knowledge of the financial markets is a plus.
Quantitative Applications Analyst
The Analyst's primary role is to provide training, analysis consulting, and other support for 
internal and external users of the Yield Book.
Academic Background: 
Additional Skills:
M.B.A., M.S. or Ph.D. in a quantitative field such as Finance, 
Operations Research, Engineering, or Mathematics.
Strong analytical and interpersonal skills are required. Knowledge 
of the financial markets and/or computer programming is a plus.
Unix System Administrator
Academic Background: B.A. or M.S. in a quantitative field such as Computer Science or
Engineering.
Additional Skills: Strong Unix operating system knowledge is required.
Programming and/or network skills is a plus.
Resumes should be submitted ASAP to:
Joan Dolph 
FAX (212) 783-4615

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University11 March 1996
BHA students feel 
unwelcome in CFA
The name Bachelor of Humani
ties and Arts suggests two things 
 humanities and arts. However, 
CMUs young BHA program, in
tended to form a marriage be
tween the humanities and arts, is 
not living up to its purpose in 
practice. Instead, it leaves its stu
dents without a home. Although 
the BHA students are able to 
achieve their goals of an interdis
ciplinary experience, the admin
istration of the program makes it 
unnecessarily difficult to do so.
The BHA program, now three 
years old, has been hailed as a 
popular, unique, and impressive 
new program. It has been a major 
selling point for CMU, gaining 
many new students each year. It 
is a four year program which in
volves a double concentration  
one in H&SS and one in CFA  
and gives the student a joint de
gree in both.
The rest of the University, and 
in particular the College of Fine 
Arts, should begin to give the BHA 
program, and its students, the 
respect they deserve. Throughout 
the program, students have expe
rienced varied administrative and 
logistical stonewalls, typically 
emanating from a CFA depart
ment refusing to recognize the 
student as a full major. For in
stance, the music department will 
not give its BHA students keys to 
the practice rooms, while design 
BHA students are not allowed full 
use of the Reese design cluster. 
Further, drama students are not 
allowed to take any acting classes 
except Acting for Non-Majors. 
BHA students are supposed to be 
treated like full majors in both of
their concentrations, and should 
get all the privileges that come 
with it.
Another problem for the BHA 
program is its image. It is not 
uncommon for a BHA student to 
be asked what BHA means by 
some member of the University. 
Although, in some ways this is to 
be expected since BHA is rela
tively new, no student should have 
to explain it to a professor whose 
class they are taking, or to a CCon 
to prove their right to use a clus
ter. If the BHA program is to be a 
interdisciplinary education suc
cess story, its students must have 
the status of full majors in both of 
their departments, and they must 
be treated like it.
BHA students experience a lack 
of a true home department as 
well; being tossed between two 
colleges makes it hard to fully 
participate dr belong to either.
The bottom line is that the BHA 
program is now a well-populated, 
established institution at CMU 
 it must be treated as such. If 
the program is to effectively 
achieve its goals, it must have a 
home department office or center, 
where its students can get 
straightforward advice and direc
tion from an advisor that is equally  
aware of the practices of both 
H&SS and CFA. Furthermore, the 
College of Fine Arts and H&SS 
must afford the BHA students the 
full privileges of a major.
The unique and important BHA 
program has had a good start to 
pioneering interdisciplinary edu
cation on this campus, but now it 
is time that the colleges involved 
give it the respect it deserves.
Trust would best aid 
office cleanliness
The time is now  right now. 
Once the new University Center 
is operating, getting resources for 
it will be a bureaucratic mess. In 
a few months, everyone moves, so 
we should settle in properly.
The center is multi-functional, 
so students cannot claim the build
ing as their own, but right now, 
students are feeling completely 
alienated from what should be 
their social hub. Whereas some of 
the new facilities will be top notch, 
lack of attention to detail is mak
ing students feel like they are not 
being treated with respect. Some 
organizations are still sharing of
fice space, a situation that should 
have been temporary in the cur
rent Student Center. Other orga
nizations are not receiving the 
support they need to properly 
equip their offices. Also, some of 
the proposed restrictions about 
office maintenance are insulting 
to students.
New rules for the Center dictate 
that students cannot personalize 
their offices with bulletin boards 
on the walls or posters in the win
dows. The new rules may help 
keep the student offices tidy, but 
they will not help the students 
feel genuinely inspired to main
tain sharp looking offices.
Students want to feel like they 
control their own organizations. 
If they do feel that way, they will 
take better care of their resources, 
especially the University Center. 
Therefore, students need to be 
given a sense of ownership and 
feel a sense of support.
Personalizing an office is important to those who work there. To 
tell the tenants of any space that 
they are restricted in how they 
use that space makes the tenants 
feel like they are under constant 
supervision. Also, the space allo
cation reviews scheduled for ev
ery three years must be handled 
very carefully. Reallocation of 
space is a good idea considering 
that many organizations needs 
will change over time, but the 
students should not have to feel 
like they are under constant scru
tiny and in danger of losing their 
offices.
Aside from letting students have 
free reign in their own offices, 
another way to instill pride in 
those offices would be to furnish 
them properly from the beginning. 
Giving students the financial sup
port they need to adequately and 
fashionably furnish their offices 
would be a sign of trust on the part 
of the University  a sign that 
the students must respond to with 
responsible behavior.
Students have to take pride in 
their new offices and keep them 
clean. They are more apt to do so 
if they feel that the offices are 
really theirs. The administration 
is justified in the proposal of their 
strict housekeeping rules and 
practices. However, administra
tors must also consider the mes
sage they are sending to the stu
dents and that there are more 
effective ways to keep the Univer
sity Center in good shape. Specifi
cally  instilling a sense of per
sonal pride in each student about 
this new space.
Letters to the Editor
Reader criticizes 
anti-Buchananite
l dIk
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
James Stepaneks 
February 26 column,
Political contender 
packs ineffectual 
punch in races takes 
aim at Republican presidential hopeful 
Pat Buchanans trade position.
Buchanans position is the traditional 
Republican position. The party platform 
supported it from 1860 to 1936. The 
1924 Republican platform, for example, 
backed the 40% tariff to support the 
high American economic level of life for 
the average family and to prevent a 
lowering to the level of economic life 
prevailing in other lands. It was only 
dropped from the platform when the 
GOP began nominating liberal interna
tionalists like Wilkie, Dewey, and 
Eisenhower.
Furthermore, the November 14,1995 
National Journals Congress Daily re
ports that 69 percent of all Americans, 
including 71 percent of 1992 Bush vot
ers, 74 percent of Perot voters, and 65 
percent of Clinton voters support tariffs. 
So have we benefited from 50 years of 
free trade?
English economist Henry Carey wrote 
in The Harmony of Interests in 1851 
that, Free trade is proclaimed to be the 
increase in commerce, but commerce 
withers under it. We thus have here, 
first a system that is unsouhd and un
natural, and second, a theory that was 
invented for the purpose of accounting 
for the poverty and wretchedness which 
are its necessary results. Abraham Lin
coln seconded this position, saying that 
abandonment of the protective policy... 
must result in the increase of... idleness 
and so in proportion must produce want 
and ruin among our people.
Maybe Mr. Stepanek hasnt noticed, 
but our industries have wilted when
ever the tariff has been removed. The 
closing of numerous factories and mills 
in the steel, primary metals, auto, mo
torcycle, passenger rail car, textile, ap
parel, machine tool, and electronics in
dustries is fairly obvious. And the par
tial revival of these industries under the 
protectionist policies of President 
Reagan is also obvious.
The Mon-Valleys fate should make 
every free trader think. Tariffs work 
because they level out wage differences 
and tax foreign importers. A Chinese 
shoe costs $1 in labor, and perhaps $5 in 
shipping. An American shoe costs $10 in 
labor, and perhaps $5 in shipping. Lets 
assume $5 in other costs. They both sell 
retail for $45, which includes profits for 
the manufacturer, wholesaler, and re
tailer. About 1/3 of the domestic profit 
goes to the corporate income tax. If we 
replaced that $9 tax with a 20% tariff on 
Chinese shoes, we would raise about $9. 
The Chinese would still make a profit, 
the domestic taxes could be abolished, 
and the American firm and workers 
would be competitive again.
Tariffs do not make firms inefficient. 
By focusing them on the domestic mar
ket, the firms stay small. It is only with 
the internationalizing of firms that they 
have become large and inefficient. The 
decline of the auto industry stems not 
from protectionism, but from the 1956 
removal of the 24% auto tariff. As for 
tariffs causing the Great Depression, I 
might note that it lasted from 1929 to 
1941, while the Hawley-Smoot tariff 
lasted from 1931 to 1933. Milton 
Friedman debunked this myth in Free 
to Choose. French economist Frederic 
Bastiat said free trade aimed at the 
formation of a peaceful, ecumenical, 
indissoluble union of the peoples of the 
world. Maybe as an atheistic humanist 
you support this goal; as a Catholic 
American I do not. Teddy Roosevelt put 
it well, I thank God I am not a free 
trader.
In this country, pernicious indulgencein the doctrine of free trade seems inevi
tably to produce fatty degeneration of 
the moral fiber.
Another famous theoretician once said, 
The protective system ... is conserva
tive, while the free trade system is de
structive. It breaks up old nationalities 
and pushes the antagonism of the prole
tariat and the bourgeoisie to the ex
treme point ... [T]he free trade system 
hastens the social revolution. It is in this 
revolutionary sense alone ... that I vote 
in favor of free trade.
Mr. Stepanek, say hello to your ideo
logical soulmate, Karl Marx.
Andy Byler 
Senior
Civil EngineeringIncident touches on fall of Communism
James Stepanek
For those of you at 
CMU who never 
keep up with the 
news, the Cuban Air 
Force downed two 
aircraft owned by 
U.S. citizens in in
ternational waters a
couple of weeks ago. All of the people on the aircraft, four U.S. 
citizens, were killed. What had the unarmed planes done to 
provoke this? They had intruded into Cuban air space. Hardly 
seems to be an offense worth killing over.
Of course, the Cuban government, true to form for commu
nist dictatorships, was unrepentant, blaming the affair on the 
U.S. Government. How they can blame the U.S. government 
when Cubans killed the people quite escapes me. The civilians 
had violated U.S. air traffic rules, so the U.S. can hardly be 
blamed for the pilots actions. Not that those actions were 
deserving of such a penalty by any standards.
As a measure of response to 
this criminal offense by Cuba, 
the U.S. prodded the UN Se
curity council into deploring 
the action. In the language of 
diplomacy this is somewhat 
harsh, but not quite a con
demn, which is as harsh as 
the U.N. gets.
The Clinton Administration, 
as was proper, condemned this 
act in harsh terms. The Con
gress passed resolutions con15 and 30 million Russians through purges, forced labor in 
camps, and orchestrated famines. Theres also some other 
heavy hitters in the mass murder line up from communist 
regimes. Theres Mao (something like 20 million through all 
his purges and cultural revolutions), Pol Pot (who ruled 
Cambodia and slaughtered 1 million people, 1/4 of the 
population) and even Lenin, who despite the fact that many 
people see him as a benevolent communist, killed off 1-2 
million people through purges.
Thankfully for the innocent people of the world, there are 
very few bastions of communism left. Theres China (which 
is getting capitalistic, so they are better described as simple 
totalitarians), Vietnam (which is trying to become like China), 
Cambodia, Cuba, and a very limited number of other hold
outs (including the CMU English department). Adam Smiths 
invisible hand slapped the face of the communists, capital
ism triumphed, and planned markets utterly failed. Of 
course, it took a bit of help from U.S. to make this happen in 
a much reduced time. The final push by Reagan, by upping
the stakes in the
Cold War arms 
race, is what 
thankfully broke 
their back.
Getting rid of 
those last bastions 
would be nice. 
These new steps 
by the U.S. to try 
to get rid of Castro 
may well be 
enough. Cuba is
demning it and have passed a law which is meant to tighten the already in dire straits. Their economy is a wreck, and 
screws of the economic sanctions we have in place against spontaneous protests have erupted only to be put down by
Its a rare thing when a government 
ever voluntarily admits that it has over
stepped its bounds and gives up power. 
Because this is true, sometimes other 
measures need to be taken. 
Cuba. The new law provides that people can bring suit against 
companies which have dealings with the Cuban government 
involving property which they illegally seized from these 
people. This is quite a powerful piece of legislation considering 
how much property has been seized by the Cuban government.
the government per communist tradition (think Tienamen 
Square.) We need to shorten the pathetic end to the Castro 
regime. It would be best for both the U.S. and Cuba if Castro 
would finally throw in the towel.
I assure you that despite these simple truths, there are
It has passed both the House and Senate, and Clinton looks those who dont agree. They are loath to see any example of 
likely to sign it into law. government controlled markets fail, as they believe that
The response of the left, as usual when a communist governgovernmental control of everything is important because we 
ment is being punished, is outrage. They are going ballistic cannot be trusted to make correct decisions for ourselves, 
about how these further measures towards cutting off Cuba These are the kind of people who repeatedly expounded on 
are going to be harsh on the people (funny how they never said the health of the Soviet economy right before it collapsed, 
that about sanctions against South Africa.) They explain that This is in spite of the clear damage both in terms of eliminate 
were just going to annoy our allies with such legislation. They of human life as well as destruction of wealth and natural
dont mutter even the slightest peep about the murder of four 
innocent civilians. In some ways, the left thinks that those 
people deserved being shot down.
This should surprise no one. The left has always protected 
communist states at the expense of the population. Stalin 
killed far more Russians than Hitler killed Jews, and yet we 
hear lots about the monster that Hitler was, and almost
resources. The virulent effects of government run wild are 
shrugged off as being something that should be accepted for 
the greater good. But big soviet-style government is like a 
cancer  it keeps growing until it is cut out or it kills the 
body.
Its a rare thing when a government ever voluntarily 
admits that it has overstepped its bounds and gives up
nothing about Stalin. Mind you I dont mean to imply that power. Because this is true, sometimes other measures need 
Hitler was anything less than a monster, but it should be noted to be taken. Sometimes, you need to cut the cancer out. 
for the record that Stalin is comparable in magnitude of
atrocity. It is estimated that Stalin killed somewhere between Stepanek is a Ph.D. in MSE.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 March 19965
Downsizing fails to solve dire economic problems
ries in The New York Times that ended were saying, Whats the big deal? But
Jason Togyer
If you need evidence that the nation is 
badly out of kilter, consider this: Last 
Fridays news that 705,000 new jobs were 
created in February caused the Dow Jones 
industrial average to plummet 171 points.
This comes after record gains in the 
Dow each time  guess what  some 
industrial behemoth gave a few thousand 
employees the air.
Hello, McFly?
Hiring raises the possibility that labor 
costs are going to be higher down the 
road, harrumphed an economist at Mor
gan, Stanley & Co. in an Associated Press 
story.
Yes, one would presume that when you 
hire more people, you have to pay them 
something (though presumably Congress 
is working to find a way around that). But 
isnt the fact that companies are hiring a 
sign that.business is good? Shouldnt that 
make the stock market go up?
Not necessarily. As the APs writer wryly 
noted, Wall Street never met a layoff it 
didnt like.
This jibes relatively well with The 
Downsizing of America, a seven-part seSaturday. Pressure from investors for everhigher share prices has left corporations 
running scared. CEOs are now looking not 
to maximize long-term profits, but to cre
ate short-term income bumps that help 
them keep their jobs.
And these skittish, make-money-fast 
stockholders are mainly pension and mu
tual funds for middle-income types. I can 
just smell the irony: Yuppie works at
as soon as some white-collar jobs were 
axed, Time and Newsweek declared a 
state of emergency (but I digress).
So what do we do? Damned if I know. 
The Times series talked of solutions like 
retraining, cooperation between man
agement and labor, and a lot of other 
feel-good ideas. But if you read last 
Fridays announcement about the 
705,000 new jobs, you saw that most of 
the increases came 
in low-paying ser
vice companies. 
While I dont want 
to denigrate the 
people in those po
sitions, theres not 
a whole lot of re
training neces
sary to learn to 
mop floors or make 
pizzas (trust me, I 
know). And as far 
5to 9nDvsnDond Mmptd.pp 0ndne.D as labor/manageAT&T, sinks some money in a retirement ment cooperation goes, union memberfund that demands higher yields from 
AT&T stock. Yuppie gets canned. Okay, so 
its not so funny. It is interesting to note 
that ten years ago, when factories in rustbelt towns were shutting down and work
ers were calling for action, economists like 
Robert Reich (today the secretary of labor)
ship is at its lowest point since the c30s. 
Seems to me cooperation is limited to, 
Cooperate, or youre fired. Do we stamp 
out the stock market? Capitalism has its 
flaws, particularly when its as heart
less and cold as Wall Street is today, but 
none of the alternatives work particu
larly well, either.
Were looking for a magic cure for a 
infinitely complex problem. In 1992 we 
tossed out George Bush in the hope that 
Bill Clinton could help. In 1994 we tossed 
out the Congress. Now, in 1996, were 
dissatisfied with everybody. The same 
thing is happening in Russia and some 
former Soviet bloc nations. People are upset 
and frightened, and theyre lashing out at 
the ballot boxes and putting Communists 
back into power. What everyone really 
wants is some knight in shining armor to 
come along and rescue them. Guess what? 
Its not going to happen.
And more and more people turn to con
spiracy theorists, race-baiters, and hatemongers every day. Its much more fun to 
think that the United Nations or Queen 
Elizabeth is responsible for the mess were 
in rather than our own selfishness. This 
kind of paranoia has made the country 
ripe for demagogues like Pat Buchanan 
and Louis Farrakhan. That kind of help 
we dont need.
Something bad is happening, kiddos, 
and Im worried too.
Anyone out there have any answers be
sides the easy ones?
Jason Togyer is a senior in professional 
writing who thinks the revolution will be 
televised  on pay-per-view.
Columnist focuses on folly of flag-waving, patriotism
Douglas Howe
America. The land of the free, 
the home of the brave. A place 
where the streets are paved with 
gold, and everyone has an equal 
opportunity to advance in the 
career of their choosing, without 
regard to race, color, creed, or 
sexual orientation. A country 
where I can get a gun in 10 min
utes and a prostitute in five. A 
land where I can get wacky dur
ing cybersex over the Internet 
with 14-year-old girls without 
ever havingto tell them my name. 
A system where we can still find 
joy in our ignorance because, ul
timately, it isnt our fault. The 
United States is a place where 
you can always disregard respon
sibility because someone else is 
to blame. Here, TV is a necessity 
but literacy isnt. This is where I 
live. America the beautiful. I dont 
bother questioning anything. Ive 
been properly brainwashed, 
thank you very much.
Call me what you like  a 
commie, a Red, a fascist, a social
ist bastard, a Canadian  just 
dont call me before eight in the 
morning or Ill be really pissed 
off. I wouldnt consider myself 
anti-American in the least. Its 
my right under the First Amend
ment to doubt the system.
Its a clause that is called upon 
again and again: if this system 
dont work, my cronies and I have 
the right to revolt against it. And 
let me tell you, if the four or five 
fathers saw what this country 
had become, theyd want a revo
lution too.
Consider the American flag. Its 
just fifty stars, 13 stripes, and 
Betsy Rosss handiwork. But its 
more than just a flag, its a na
tional symbol. You cant let it 
touch the ground. You cant leave 
it out at night in the dark. You 
cant let it get wet, or fold it wrong, 
or wash it in conventional deter
gent, or use anything less than a 
60 watt bulb to illuminate it. All 
these bloody rules and regula
tions over what?
A piece of fabric.
Im not saying these rules are 
bad, Im asking why do I believe
was what we did, it was what we 
did. Why would she lie to us? I 
mean, she was the teacher. I can 
still remember it without think
ing. If you told me to do the Pledge 
of Allegiance at this very mo
ment, I would automatically 
stand up, put my hand on my 
chest and chum it out. There 
would be no consideration or 
awareness of what I was saying, 
just repetition.
Fourth grade was the big year. 
That was the year we had the 
honor and privilege to put up the 
flag in the morning and take it 
down at the end of the day. People
School wasnt about learning things, it 
was a lesson in how cruel life really is and 
how much it sucks. Look at the playground. It 
was an organized torture chamber. 
in them so heavily?
Where did all this come from? 
As a child, Ill admit, I didnt 
understand everything. In those 
prepubescent years, I listened to 
what I was taught and told. Espe
cially when I first went to el
ementary school. I personally 
believe that kindergarten 
through third grade can make or 
break a kid. One of the most im
portant things I learned was the 
Pledge of Allegiance.
I hadnt a clue what the hell I 
was saying or what it meant, but 
every morning, 20-some six years 
olds would rattle it off like mind
less drones and sing Our Coun
try tis of thee/ Sweet Land of 
Liberty/Of thee I sing....
I never once considered what I 
was doing. If the teacher said it
looked at you different. Ohh, they 
must be special, theyre putting 
up the flag, they said. Little kids 
made you into a king for a week. 
They bring you lunch, ask you 
questions about your lifestyle, 
shine your shoes, do your home
work, buy you drugs from the 
local vendor. It was like youd 
won the lottery or Publisher^ 
Clearing House.
Then there were those emer
gency flag removals, when it 
started raining. Your teacher 
would look all worried, and tell 
you to hurry before it got too wet 
orthe U.S. Government would be 
on our tails.
So wed run out, without our 
jackets, no matter what the 
weather, and remove it, fold it, 
and sometimes kiss it lightly to
make sure it knew we cared.
Once Jeff Boyce let it touch the 
ground and, not only was he taken 
off flag duty, but no one would 
talk to him for a month.
He was shunned because of the 
flag.
My roommate told me a story 
about the time his step-father 
was putting up the flag for the 
Fourth of July and let it touch the 
ground. My roommate totally 
flipped out. He started yelling 
and screaming and crying and 
calling his step-father, an 
America-hating, foreign-car-buying, imported-beer-drinking, ig
norant buttnugget. His 
step-fathers 
response was a 
laugh.
He said: Its 
just the flag, 
kid, and then
_______________ threatened to
lock him in the 
basement if he 
told anyone about it.
To this day I wonder if the teach
ers knew what a joke it was. 
Theyd all be sitting in the 
teachers lounge, laughing, tell
ing stories about the time the 
Lawton kid got struck by fighting 
while untangling the flag line, or 
when the Parsons girl wet her 
pants under the pressure. Id do 
it. What fun it is being a teacher 
if you dont have some sadistic 
control over the childrens minds? 
School wasnt about learning 
things, it was a lesson in how 
cruel life really is and how much 
it sucks. Look at the playground. 
It was an organized torture cham
ber. No one, not even the really 
popular kids, got away unscathed.
Kids can be so mean sometimes. 
Maybe because were teaching
them that different is wrong and 
that conformity is the ultimate 
right.
Dont think for yourself, dont 
try anything new, dont stand out. 
Look the same, dress the same, 
learn at the same level as every
one else, play with the same toys, 
buy the same lunchbox.
Dammit, be a normal Ameri
can child. If youre not, youre just 
plain bad and wrong. Hell, I 
bought into it.
I became different when my 
parents were the first couple in 
my school to get divorced.
My God! I was an outcast for 
awhile. Hey, Dougs parents 
dont live together anymore be
cause they hate each other. Some
thing must obviously be wrong 
with him.
Luckily enough, my parents 
started a trend and it didnt last 
forever, but boy did it suck. So 
what did I do?
I made sure I played with G.I. 
Joe, bought Jams shorts, brought 
my lunch (never bought  thats 
for kids whose parents dont love 
them), and never said anything 
remotely intelligent, or it was 
reject-Geekville for me.
Im not saying America is bad. 
From what Ive seen in the world 
its the best of a bad situation. 
But we are what we are because 
those guys who came over were 
different.
They revolted because they 
didnt dig what was going on over 
wherever they were. If youre go
ing to be patriotic, dont be blind 
and stupid. Do it for a reason. Not 
because its popular, but because 
its the right thing to do.
Howe is a junior drama major. 
He welcomes any responsible re
plies to his column
Although the prospect is Mary Waggoner 
disheartening, scheduling for Freshman 
next fall will soon begin. In Chemistry 
order to lighten the burden,
we decided to update the Comic Book Analysis/ 
course catalog. We asked stu
dents: If you could take a ny 
class imaginable, what 
would it be?
Andy Nau
Senior
Art
A major in CFA called David 
Copperfields Magic or How to 
Be a Superstar. Either one.
Robert Rockelle
Senior
Physics
yt ldgz.DvbnDD44 0ndne.D
Rachael Hauser
Sophomore
Chemistry
Anything that would actuPuritytestingl68...ormaybe 
ally get you a job after four Revenge 101: The Fine Art of 
years. Getting Back at Your Boy
friend.
THE TARTAN
imbPudMu Tull.Pn SC1uPC eu9nymyub 
SMP6u HFz3
Ed.-in-Chief.. Kenneth J. Kraemer 
Managing Ed. Andrew McDermott
Business Manager.........Amlt Kar
News Editor......Becky A.Cowser
Forum Editor..............John Biggs
Sports Editor...........Paul Boothe
Features Editor.............Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Diversions Editor..........Ena Khan
Calendar Editor......Kenneth Flagg
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Brockett Horne
..............................Jennifer Zieserl
Dossier Lit. Ed......Kevin Meehan
Art Editor...........Gabrien Symons
Photo Editor.....Jason Siegendorf
Production Mgr.Elizabeth Neuman 
Advertising Manager Chintan Shah
Systems Manager...........1-Ping Li
Copy Manager......Winter Mason
Asst. Diversions Ed. ... Jay Miolla
Asst. Sports Ed.......Dawn Papuga
Asst. Forum Editor Ed. Jenny Garcia 
de Osuna
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder
Personnel Mgr.........Eric Saizman
Asst. Production Mgr. . Jennifer Li
Contributing Editors 
Francine Gemperle, Shannon 
Gibney, Lauren Heinz, Kathy Liu, 
Matthew Solitro
Senior Staff 
Gil Aiterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Matt Bali, Darren Chiappetta
Staffwriters 
Rahul Aggarwal, Amber Benezra, 
Yosef Birnboim, Chris Cannon, 
SteveCharnoubi, Carey Clevenger, 
Tricia Davis, Shiv Dewan, Neil 
Donnely, Jason Ermer, Alvin Gavin, 
Dan Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Heinlein, Adam 
Klivans, David Koran, Wladimir 
Labelkovsky, Alex Lewin, Trevor 
Meyerowitz, April C. Moate, An
gela Molloy, Dizzy Murphy, Suzanne 
Paddock, Sudhir Reddy, Rick 
Rikoski, Dan Rosenberg, Rick 
Simmons, James Stepanek, Jes
sica Strelitz, Jason Togyer, Bill 
Vandermaik, Dawn Wailhausen, 
Andrew Wang, Adam Vincent, Su
san Watson, Bradley Zimmerman
Art
Mark Eggert, Uz Morgan, Ryan 
Rhoads
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Akira Hasegawa, 
Hiromi Hasegawa, Daniel Yauger
Photo
Diana Bartolotta, Jaroslav 
Delapedraja, Josh Freeman, 
Gustavo Sganzeria, Maria Valenti, 
Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom 
Elias Fallon, Scott Hess, Helen 
Huang, Carla Sereny
Production 
Steven Chai, Shantanu Rana, Julee 
White
Copy
Lori Bowes, Renee Cardelll, Miml 
Cheng, Ivor Clarke, Madhav 
Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, Hel
ena McGahagan, Victor Ortega, 
Catherine Senderling, M. J. Wilson
Business 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Stephen Hsu
Junior Staff 
Kurt Beres, Alex Cheng, Tommy 
Cheung, John Defazlo, Annemarie 
Devine, Ryan Donovan, F. Colt 
Foutz, Alexandra Grundeman, Will 
Isenhour, Elizabeth Kanabe, Anukul 
Kapoor, Hanjay Kim, Diana Lalor, 
Ian Loew, Hiroko Matsueda, Dizzy 
Murphy, Kenneth Namkung, Tracy 
Odell, Derek Robinson, Ronak 
Slnghal, Zulekha Spencer, Minh 
Tran
Th* Tartan Is the studem newspaper of Carnegie Mellon Unrvtrsrty. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during the fail and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the University community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing. Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing at t beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of Th Tarteditorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of Individual creators. Th* Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Utters to tho Edtor a/e opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily, members of the UnVersity community. A letter Intended for publication must be signed and Include the writers address and phone number for verification. Names may be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no lorger than 500 words. Th* Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. CopjrlghtC 1995 by Th# Tartan.Tho Tartan editorial board reserves the new to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Off: Studem Center Room 104 Phone: 412/268-2111 Mailing address: The Tartan/Bo* 17/CamMellon Uiwersity/Pittsburpi. PA 15213-389 Funded in part ty your Acwties Fee.All rights reserved.Library of Ccr^ress ISSN t: 0890-3107.The Tartan is a member of the Associated Press.

---------------------------------------------------

OU
X
>}JewWu
A D
ste
NOW ACCEPTS 
THE CAMPUS 
EXPRESS CARD
.
1OY?CbbD
I 9- '
CALL 687-9555 FOR FREE DELIVERY 
MENTION THAT YOU ARE USING YOUR 
CARD
PLACE YOUR ORDER 
UPON DELIVERY, HAVE I.D. CARD READY 
AND SIGN THE STORE RECEIPT 
GRATUITIES CAN BE ADDED TO RECEIPTS
687-9555
4740 BAUM BLVD. 
SUN-THUR 11 AM TO 2 AM 
FRI & SAT 11AM TO 3 AM
n rPIZZA OUTLET
EXTRA LARGE 16 
ONE TOPPING PIZZA
$6.
FF
Not valid with any other offer or special. One Coupon per 
order. Please mention coupon when ordering. Exp. 3/31/96
PIZZA OUTLET
HUNGER BUSTER
Ex-Lg One Topping Pizza 
Italian Hoagie 
Breadsticks 
Two Liter Coke
izza
$12.
/ h
Not valid with any other offer or special. One Coupon per 
order. Please mention coupon when ordering. Exp. 3/31/96

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 March 19967
SS 05ll5wkNlVssl6 
SxS wV2sF57 h7fFtb5
SHJ 2Va 7fNKlK525
INDIANA! 6 
BOSTON COLLEGE 11 
GEORGIA TECHia 
AUSTIN PEAYI14 
tmi7 
OKLAHOMA' 10 
WHW!]2
NC-GREENS80R 15
CnuDt.d lg4dpvsnDond 5Do Vzto4D ndz 0noo l4itoD4vw4doDtumotde Vzto4D
Connecticut to win NCAA Final Four
The Sixth Man
by Ronak Singhal
Well, its that time of year again 
for the greatest annual threeweek sporting event in our coun
try  the NCAA tournament. 
For months, college athletes 
across the country have been con
testing every jump shot and work
ing to nail every three-pointer 
trying to make it to the Big Dance. 
Now, its time for the dancing to 
begin. So, heres my outlook for 
what can be expected in each re
gion, but be wary because my 
track record in predicting the 
tournament is about as solid as 
the Buffalo Bills record in the 
Super Bowl:
East: This region features two 
of the best players in the country 
with Marcus Camby leading the
No. 1 seed Massachusetts Min
ute men while Allen Iverson leads 
the No. 2 seeded Georgetown 
Hoyas into battle. And neither of 
their teams should have an ex
tremely difficult time reaching 
the round of eight where they 
would meet. In what should be a 
classic game, look for the Hoyas 
to use their up-tempo style to tire 
the not-so-deep Minutemen and 
pull the upset.
Upset Special: Watch for No. 
12 Arkansas to beat No. 5 Penn 
State. The Nittany Lions have 
been a great three-point shooting 
team at home, but on the road 
their play has been a different 
story. The Razorbacks start four 
freshman, but theyve faced much 
stiffer competition than Penn 
State.
Sweet 16 teams: UMass, 
Marquette, North Carolina, 
Georgetown
Final 4 team: Georgetown
Midwest: The No. 1 team com
ing into the weekend was the 
Kentucky Wildcats, but their 27- 
game winning streak was halted 
in the SEC championship game
when Mississippi State defeated 
them. Look for the Wildcats to be 
on a mission to avenge this loss. 
They should be able to reach the 
Final Four with no problem.
Upset Special: Take Califor
nia (No. 12) and their freshman 
sensation Shareef Abdur-Rahim 
to defeat the Big 8 tournament 
champion Iowa State Cyclones. 
Louisville may also have trouble 
reaching their potential date with 
Wake Forest because of a tough 
Tulsa team in the first round. 
The winner of that game has the 
potential to upset Villanova in 
the second round.
Sweet 16 teams: Kentucky, 
Utah, Wake Forest, Louisville
Final 4 team: Kentucky
West: In what appears to be 
the weakest of the four regions, 
Purdue  a team with really no 
impressive wins  is the No. 1 
seed. The big story here is that 
Arizona gets to play its first two 
games in its backyard in Tempe, 
which should help them a lot, 
considering their recent habit of 
losing in the first round of the 
NCAA tournament. This region
could provide the most surpris
ing Final 4 team.
Upset Special: Santa Clara 
got in as an at-large team after 
blowing their conference tourna
ment on their home court. Theyve 
pulled upsets before; this year 
Maryland will be their victim. 
Whoever wins that game could 
give Kansas fits in the second 
round. Also watch George Wash
ington against Iowa, and the win
ner against the upset-prone Ari
zona team.
Sweet 16 teams: Purdue, 
Syracuse, Arizona, Kansas
Final 4 team: Kansas
Southeast: From the least 
impressive region, we now move 
to the most impressive region. 
Here, you have the Big East cham
pion (Connecticut), the Confer
ence USA champ (Cincinnati), the 
ACC regular season champ (Geor
gia Tech), the Pac-10 champ
(UCLA), the SEC tournament 
champ (Mississippi State), and of 
course, Princeton, the Ivy League 
champion. This region could also 
provide a surprise since there are 
so many quality teams.
Upset Special: The firstround 
may go almost according to seed, 
with Temple and Indiana being 
the only ones of the top eight 
seeds that could be in trouble.
Sweet 16 teams: Connecticut, 
Mississippi State, Georgia Tech, 
Cincinnati 
Final 4 team: Connecticut 
So, thats what I think. Look
ing at the bracket, there are 
many, many teams that have 
the potential to reach the Final 
Four at the Meadowlands. But 
this will be the year of the Big 
East, so in the Final Four, take 
Connecticut to beat Kentucky.
Ronak is a junior ECE major.
Hockey club 
ends season
>riGoNt 2b. ymdu HL
we didnt, Coach Maddalena said 
after the game.
But this is an exceptional 
team. Through adversity, in
jury, and close games, they have 
had fun, playing hockey the way 
it should be.
Roger Maddalena agreed, We 
turned our game from a 10-4 loss 
to a 5-4 nail biter, which we 
pounded them in the process. 
Jonny [Kliegman] was great in 
net; I am very pleased with our 
performance.
Assistant captain and grad stu
dent defenseman Blair Echols 
added, The rookies this year re
ally made a big contribution to 
the success of the team.
The addition of Paul and 
Ivanovic; freshmen Dino 
Sanchez, Andy Oxnard, Alex 
Chin and Steve Leonhart; grad 
student Chris Cramer, and 
sophomores Ray Fares and 
Derek Jander, should preserve 
the winning streak of the CMU 
club well into the future. Chin 
and Fares, both with limited ice 
hockey experience in the past., 
made excellent contributions to 
the team by committing them
selves to the best play and hard 
work at all times.
A team is held together with 
great coaching. Fred Maddalena 
has led these Tartan players to 
the playoffs for two years run
ning with his mild manner, good 
hockey sense, and rapport with 
the players. Buck said of the 
coach, Volunteering his time 
to coach a club team thats an 
hour away from his house, and 
having to drive in the wee hours 
of the morning to practice? 
Thats devotion. If everyone h^d 
the love of hockey that man h^s, 
wed be unbelievable.
Grad student defenseman 
Tom Sullivan, in his last gaijie 
with the Tartans, offered the^e 
words: It is always nicer to wn 
a championship, but I think fpr 
a school the size of CMU to be so 
consistently strong the past five 
years is really something to be 
proud of. We are the only team 
in the league to have been in 
the playoffs every one of the 
last five years. During that time 
weve been to the. finals three 
times (winning the champion
ship once and playing close 
games the other two times) and 
been in the semi-finals twice 
(losing each time by a goal). 
Weve won our division three 
times as well. I think this speaks 
highly of CMU as a team com
ing together and making some
thing out of what weve got, leav
ing egos off of the ice and work
ing as a unit.
YOUR open TICKET to ADVENTURE.
Discover a career with a world of difference at United Airlines. Our fantastic growth and increased flight schedtdes have created new opportunities for domestic Flight Attendants.
The high-energy individuals we seek must be at least 19 years of age, a High school graduate, between 52 and 
6 and have the legal right to accept employment in the United States. To better serve the needs of our cultur
ally diverse passengers, candidates must be bilingual in English and at least one of our select languages. You 
must be willing to relocate and enjoy helping customers.
Youll have the world at your feet as you travel to interesting destinations across the United States. Plus receive 
an exceptional compensation plan with travel privileges for you and your immediate family. For more informa
tion, please attend our
OPEN HOUSE INTERVIEWS
Friday, March 15, 1996 
9:00am, 12:00pm 
Marriott Pittsburgh Airport 
100 Aten Rd.
Coraopolis, PA
Reach all your destinations with United Airlines! Seating is limited, so please arrive early. If unable to attend, 
please call (847)952-7200 for future Open House dates and locations. UAL is an equul opportunity employer mJi/SJv.
UJJ United Airlines
A real DEPARTURE from the ORDINARY
~mr
OOOO0)OOOOOOOC^3OOOOOOOCQ)O
" Another A Phi O Service!
A Phi O Airport Shuttle
s4 UtoopumDeL Kdo.Ddnot4dni 5tD14Do
Spring Break Buses 
Leaving from CMU to the airport 
for your convenience!
Spring Break 
Friday, March 22nd 
Saturday, March 30th 
Sunday, March 31st
Buses Leave Every Hour on the Hour 
From Noon to Seven OClock
Tickets only $9 one-way 
(to Airport) 
$15 round trip
Tickets Sold at the 
Student Center Info Desk 
and departure points.
A Phi O Magic Bus
F4mdz sDt1 Mmp.p o4 0n-4D wtot.p
SAVE MONEY going home for Spring Break. 
Ride A Phi O's
to NYC, DC, Baltimore, Cherry Hill, 
Philly, Harrisburg, Allentown, 
and King of Prussia.
Leave Friday, March 22nd 
Return Sunday, March 31st
Tickets available at the 
Student Center Info Desk
Less than the cost of Greyhound!
(based on NY round trip cost)
APhiO office #268-2116
aphio+@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

March Calendar of Events
MondayTuesdayWednesdayThursdayFriday
1213
Current 
First-Year 
Student 
Retention
Day
14
Current 
Sophomore 
and Junior 
Retention 
Day
15
Designee
Only
Day
16
Special
Selection
Day*
18
Current
Junior
Selection
Day
19
Current
Sophomore
Selection
Day
20
Current 
First Year 
Student 
Selection 
Day 
(ft's 1-380)
21
Current 
First Year 
Student 
Selection 
Day 
(#'s 381-end)
22
Petitions to be on the election ballots are 
now available at the Information Desk. 
Completed petitions may be submitted by 
placing them under the Student Government 
office door (Student Center 110) from March 
21st until April 4th. In the interest of fairness, 
no petitions can be accepted after 5pm on April 
4th. //I
If you are interested in one of the elected 
positions, please attend one of the information 
sessions that will be held on March 20thJj$td/f 
April 3rd! These sessions will provide 
information on the requirements of holding an 
office, on the election process, and on the 
publicity options planned for petitioned 
candidates.
Funded by your eager-to-be-elected Activities Fee
Student Government elections for the 
President, Treasurer and Student Senators 
will be held on April 18,19, and 20.
* only for current residents of MG 7E, Devon Towers, and Welch
They taught you to THINK. 
We'll teach you to DO.
Start your Technical Sales Career with Oracles Exclusive Hands-On Training Program
If youre challenged by the thrill of providing innovative tech
nology and you enjoy working directly with clients solving busi
ness problems, join Oracle! Our Sales Consultant Trainee Program 
is a comprehensive indoctrination into the business dynamics.of 
the Information Age.
Well sharpen your technical, presentation, and management 
skills. You will work with the very Oracle solutions that are 
renowned for changing the way human knowledge is gathered, 
stored, retrieved, and utilized. In six short months, youll have the 
technological edge and the professional clout to drive the future of 
business as well as advance your career goals. With record sales of 
$3 billion and nearly 50% growth in the last year alone, your 
opportunities to ascend at Oracle will be virtually limitless.
Qualifications for our Trainee Program include a BA/BS, 
strong communication skills, the desire to travel, experience in 
RDBMS, Tools and/or CASE Applications, and a solid knowledge 
of at least one operating system.
Visit us at the WestPACS96 Job Fair at the Pittsburgh 
ExpoMart, Monroeville, PA , Thursday March 14th,
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Or, send your resume today to: Oracle 
Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659314, Redwood Shores, 
CA 94065. FAX: (415) 413-3648. We offer a generous compensa
tion and benefits program, including an aggressive performancedriven bonus plan. Equal talent always receives equal opportunity. 
Visit our Web site at: http://www.oracle.com.
rfpihEg
Enabling the Information Age

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 March 19969
1 800 CALL ATT always costs less than 1-8OO-COLLECT.
And always gets you the reliable ATKT Network.
Use it whenever youre off campus.
Paris Frankfurt Amsterdam Rome Prague Athens Moscow
cwvhriw oMII gvrrg 2iWqlU twuwzml5
Travel
118 MEYRAN Ave. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
BJHLX 3(s)H((Hhttp ://www.de<.org/cti/ctshofnc.h tinJfBBBIii
Council
APARTMENTS
UNLIMITED
Studios 
1 & 2 Bedrooms 
3 Bedrooms 
3 Bedrooms w/ den 
Shadyside and 
Squirrel Hill 
Call for further info.
(412) 521-7838
Spring, Summer, Fall, Occupancy
With two weeks of regular season play to go, here are this weeks IM Floor Hockey rankings. All teams are reminded 
to check the IM bulletin board for schedule updates or changes.
MINORS
1. PKT Barracuda (3-0)
2. Pestilence (3-0)
3. Schlag Rulers (3-0)
4. 69ers (20)
5. River Rats (2-0)
6. Wet Leather Congress (2-0)
7. Snowdogs (2-0)
8. Navy Rio (2-0-1)
9. Zoo (2-0)
10. PKT Thrashers (2-0)
MINORS
(NON-CHECKING)
1. SAE Champions (3-0)
2. Back Alley (2-0)
3. Beeler St. Bruins (2-1)
4. Mellonheads (21)
MAJORS
1. Beta Primelake (2-0)
2. Grand Finale (11)
WOMENS
1. Wet Leather Congress (1-0-1)
2. Pioneers (21)
3. Theta (1-1-1)
IM BASKETBALL CHAMPIONS
The IM Department congratulates all of the 
1996 IM Basketball Champions. The IM De
partment thanks all of the teams, players, work
ers, and officials for an outstanding season.
CHAMPIONS 
Majors  Beta Big Men 
Intermediate  PKT Agongs 
Minors  PKT Damn Bs 
Women Only  Soccer Babes
pMPMnCbmCM.P
IM Director  Mike Mastroianni T8E 
2214; Asst. DirectorMikeGrzywinski 
xPBER,BP/ IM Secretary  Michelle 
Matta 3PER:HB/ IM Co-Presidents  
fjike Monico and Sean Keane TRER,::/ 
IM Women's President  Patty Bruno.
vy.bCmPC UmCun
Monday IM Foul Shooting at 6:30 
pin in the Main Gym.
Tuesday  IM Wrestling Meet at 
6:30 pm in Main Gym (5:45 weigh-ins).
WednesdayThree-on-Three Bas
ketball Tournament at 6:30 pm in the 
Main Gym; Water Basketball playoffs 
posted.
ThursdayThree-on-Three Basket
ball Tourney and Foul Shooting; IM 
Entries Due:TableTennis Singles, Team 
Call Pool, Individual Call Pool, Swim
ming, Weight Lifting, Euchre, Indoor 
Soccer, Softball, and Co-Rec Softball.
Friday Badminton Playoff brackets 
posted.
March 18  Three-Point Shoot Out 
at 6:30 pm in the Main Gym.
March 19-21  Badminton Tourna
ments from 6:30-10:30 pm.
vT apSGogaphh , evg
; On Wednesday, March 6, the Minors 
N.I.T. champion was crowned. In the 
game of The Bailers and Donner 1 
West, it was the classic of inside power 
basketball vs. the outside shooting 
game. Afterjumpingoutto an early first 
quarter lead, the Bailers traded bas
kets with the Donner team throughout 
most of the game. The inside duo of Val 
Fouron and Brian Santangelo lead the 
Bailers with many inside points and 
rebounds, while the outside shooting 
t(io of Luke Hudak, Dave Dunsavage, 
and Brett Formery scored 35 points for 
the Donner 1 West team. Despite this 
fine outside shooting, the inside game 
proved to be enough to hold on for a 
OOEB, win by The Bailers. The tandem 
of Fouron and Santangelo were named 
Co-MVPfortheir performances. To quote 
several members of the Bailers, This 
is just the beginning. Look out for us 
next year." With the play of the teams, 
the Intramural Department expects to 
hear from both of them next year.
5pgof apSGogaphh
The 1996 Water Basketball playoff 
brackets will be posted in the IM office 
after noon on Wednesday, March 13. 
The semi-final games will be played on 
Tuesday, March 19, and the champion
ship game will be played on Wednes
day, March 20.
oegofveE frSgofS RSveE oTpvh
! To enter your team by way of email, 
you must use an Official Entry Form," 
which is posted to the official.athleticdept-news bboard periodically. Please 
use this form when entering your team. 
Email entries will not be accepted any 
other way.
 Note: All email rosters are due 24 
hpurs prior to the actual due date.
1 Questions can be directed to Michelle 
(K8-2053 or email to mish").
r}}vivphS pfo eooUoU
Officials are needed for IM Softball 
and Soccer. Please call IM Director 
Mike Mastroianni atx8-2214 or stop in 
the IM Office, Room 101 of the Gym.
S14MCCu 47 
Tvi>ohho Tpggp
They shelled it out for your orthodontist bills.
Coughed it up for your car insurance. 
And forked it over for that fish ItlVllz accident.
Yet they still insist you call collect.
Touched by their undying love, you spare them further expense.
You dial 1 800 CALL ATT.
Know the Code. 1 800 CALL ATT. That's Your True Choice?
* For interstate calls. Promotions excluded 
1-800-COLLECT is a registered trademark of MCL
pg0g
Your True Choice
 1996 AT&T

---------------------------------------------------

pC S74mnut we're setting
the client/server marketplace on fire. As the 
recent launch of Sybase System 11 continues our 
legendary track record for surpassing industry standards for 
performance, scalability and quality, we're poised to revolutionize 
the way our customers and competitors view the client/server market. 
Which says a lot about our open architecture, and our ability to solve real 
world business problems with comprehensive education, technology transfer 
and client/server software solutions integration.
WHY'S EVERYONE TALKING ABOUTSYBASE?
BECAUSE WE'RE TALKINGHOT.
If You Want To Be An Associate Consultant; 
Put Sybase Worldwide Professional Services 
On Your Hot List!
ve}rfTpgvre SoSSvreV
Monday, March 11, Career Center, Room 207,7-9 p.m. Refreshments 
served. Attire informal.
SNapSo vegofcvo5S pg ipfevivv TohhreV
Tuesday, March 12
Talk to the experts. Contact Sybase at univ_search@sybase.com 
for more information on this interview session. To leam 
more about opportunities at Sybase, check out 
our hot new staffing web page: 
http://wwwjybase.com/careers.
Sybase is an equal opportunity 
employer.
The Architecture for Innsiide
Pittsburgh Public Theater
- 5veeof & y 1994 %
AfvZo
presents 
a major theatrical event
from the celebrated author 
of
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
k5vUohN foEpfUoU pS g>o aoSg AhpN r} g>o SopSre'
- Clive Banes, New Yat Post
Now playing through April 6  Tue-Frl at 8, Sat 2 & 8, Sun 2 & 7 
Special performances April 3 at 12 and April 4 at 2
Special after
performance 
talk-backs at the 
Public Theater 
for Edward 
Albee's Three 
Tall Women
kirTTRevipgvre' 
Tpfi> HK 8 LVzzy 
Smll7 Gmln.P
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
GmC7 /. Gbmub
ti Pittsburgh 
ibMnCMPm SybMPdub
_________WfEP 91.3-FM
kocrhRgvre* 
Tpfi> LJ _ LVzzy 
S1nmP a a.Pt A U
Executive Vice President, 
PNCBank Corp. 
pPPO abmPP.Pt A U
Duquesne University 
AmCbM6Mm T.PClu7t A U 
Chatham Cotoge
kEoeUof fohpgvreS' 
Tpfi> sg) LVzzy 
h.Mn }.9l.bt A U
Carnegie Mellon 
University 
Tmbnm g.Pd.M
National Assn ot Women's 
Business Owners 
Tmbd7 5lCb
Producer, Mlsler Rogers' ________Neighborhood
*fohpgvreS>vAS' 
pAfvh J)LVzzy 
emP67 g }.lCt A zEducator, Planner 
olll. 57mbt A U
Educator, Author 
fMCm N.mnC.t A U
_____La Roche College
No additional 
charge...join ini
Juts burg!) Jtost-azeUe
USAir
KDKA RADIO 1020
RAMADA
plaza surras
Calendlr. lsWmt-Y
CHARGE BY PHONE (VISA. MASTERCARD, AMEX)(412)3214800
gM6uP 1lD Pl.4M mC glt SCmd S/1CCM SCmCM.P S1mbu
little itah\e italyPizza pie, company
Cpizza ou' ncrtxral,s)
3GM fifth auQnuG rczcr f oahlaod pa.621-2295 < 621-2366
pizza, apasta, 
bachos, calzone 
5+nc^big salads
i MOTG.
ve.Ge.tdRicivi v 
caRHive.?ou2 
cuisine.
FRe.e. ^ Ke.c^Le.22 pe.Live.Ry 
acce.pt a L L 
coivipe.titoK2 
coupons'
thats right, 
we match anyN 
artificially low 
prices offered/ 
by the
evil corporate'1 
giants we one/ 
day hope 
to become.
Disclaimer: the word reckless is intended to mean wreck  less 
As in: Impeccably safe & courtious drivers wreck less.
D&diwnnp The Pizza/
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
rNow hiring delivery people.682-7272
PAPA
3/A/
T
We accept Visa/Mastercard 
"T------------------T----------------n
One 16" Extra 
Large One Topping
$7
95
G snT
Additional toppings $1.50 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Two 14" Large 
One Topping
$11
F(
Additional toppings $1.25 on each 
pizza Not valid with any other 
coupon. Valid only at participating
One 14" Large 
One Topping
:3
F(
(Mon.  Tliurs. 1 lam-4pm, 9pm-cloie) 
Additional toppings $1.25 each 
Not valid with any other coupon
One 14" Large 
One Topping & An 
Order of Breadsricks
FF
G snT
Additional toppings $1.25 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
stores Valid only at participating stores |

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 March 199611
On Net
by Jessica Strelitz 
& Chris Adukaitis
After weeks of trade rumors, 
Superstar Wayne Gretzky was 
traded from the L.A. Kings to the 
St. Louis Blues last week, for 
three underachieving youngbloods and two draft picks.
Why St. Louis? The other ma
jor contender in the deal, Mark 
Messier and the N.Y. Rangers, 
were seated higher in the NHL. 
Since Gretzkys major gripe was 
about the Kings low-caliber of 
play, the consensus was that 
Gretzky would head to New York 
 the 1994 Stanley Cup Champs.
But Coach Mike Keenan beat 
out his old team with the same 
hard-nosed tactics that has re
shaped the Blues over the past 
two years. Keenan didnt care if it 
took 10 players  he would give 
them the rest of the team except 
Brett Hull and Shayne Corson. 
That, combined with the Bluess 
stellar season behind iron-man 
goalie Grant Fuhr, the attraction 
of centering a line with Hull and 
Corson, plus the fact that 
Gretzkys wifes family is from 
St. Louis made Gretzkys deci
sion much easier.
And who wouldnt want 
Gretzky? He didnt become the 
Great One for nothing. Number 
99 has set 61 NHL records in
cluding most goals (830), and has 
1,758 assists and 2,588 points. 
He also holds playoff records for 
Igoals, assists and points (346 to
tal). He has been MVP nine times, 
and has won the scoring title 10 
times in 16 years. He has been 
elected to the All-Star team 15 
times and led the NHL in points 
TO' seasons (five times in goals 
land 14 in assists), this year sit
ting him in 10th place with 16 
goals and 66 assists.
; However, the problem with 
Keenan and the Blues this year is 
free-agency. There are only about 
five players on the team left from 
last year. Keenan has torn apart 
the Blues roster, brought in his 
own players, and alienated most 
of the Blues players and fans. 
Sacrificing team chemistry and 
unity for a supposed increase in 
talent is not the best way to build 
a Stanley Cup team.
The only hope Keenan has of 
taking his team to the Cup this 
year is to continue what hes do
ling. He cannot build a big family
like team, where everybody is in 
it together. He needs to repeat 
performance in New York. 
Get the players to hate you and 
rally together around that fact; 
get them to want to win the Cup, 
just to spite you. Keenan is not 
tKe father-figure head coach, like 
an Eddie Johnston; he needs to 
realize his players contempt and 
play on that to get even more out 
of them.
The big question is what will 
happen now? With Hull and 
Corson stepping aside to make 
shoulder room, Corson gladly re
linquished his captainship to 
Gretzky. The superstar has said 
about his new linemate, Hull, #16, 
Brett doesnt have to spend as 
much time now trying to chase 
down loose pucks. Now hes got to 
spend more time getting open.
It is hoped that Gretzky com*ng to the club will soothe ten
sions between General Manager 
and Coach Iron Mike, and Hull, 
who was stripped of his captain
ship earlier this season by the 
tight-lipped coach. Both have 
been vocal about their disagreeSpring Break 1996
TRAVEL FREEH
Jamaica. Cancn. Bahamas
Panama City. Davlona. Padre 
** Great low, low prices
** Free Trip on only 15 sales
Call (or a FREE 
information
ments this season, both about
caliber of play and personality 
conflicts.
Hull was quoted earlier this 
season as saying, It doesnt mat
ter who wears the C, everyone 
on this team knows who the real 
captain is.
Keenan has been visibly ex
cited about the spark that 
Gretzky has brought to St. Louis, 
continuing the coachs pruning 
process that has been ongoing 
since his arrival with the Blues 
two years ago.
With the addition of another 
previous Stanley Cup winner, the 
Blues continued to fair well in 
their first game with Gretzky, 
tying the Canucks 2-2. The new 
Blue rocked the crowd by scoring 
his. 16th goal of the season. Ex
pecting this caliber of play to con
tinue, fans immediately bought 
up all of the tickets for the re
maining Blues home games.
In his next game, however, 
Gretzky showed that he too was 
merely mortal, being knocked 
unconscious by former teammate 
Oiler Kelly Buchberger with an 
elbow to the head. Buchberger 
later apologized, saying that the 
hit was unintentional, but shrug
ging, too, he smirked and said, 
Thats hockey.
This weeks predictions:
Jess  Though Gretzky came 
back from his concussion, after 
missing only one practice to play 
in his home debut, how long can 
the aging superstar last? The 
Blues wont win the Cup this year 
 the Detroit Red Wings are too 
hot in the West  but theyll 
definitely have fun trying. I saw 
Keenan and Hull throwing more 
than verbal jabs earlier in the 
season, but with addition of the 
Hollywood smile of Gretzky, I see 
clear ice ahead in the temper de
partment on the Blues.
ChrisGretzky will definitely 
provide a late-season burst to the 
Blues playoff run. However, I 
dont see them knocking out any 
of the big three in the West (De
troit, Chicago, and Colorado) 
come playoff time. If the Blues 
can clinch fourth or fifth, they 
may make it into the second 
round. However, if Keenan keeps 
his strategy consistent and con
tinues to care little or nothing for 
the players personal feelings and 
attitudes, the Blues have a legiti
mate shot at the Stanley Cup in 
the next few years. Look for the 
rest of the Blues to unite around 
Gretzky and form a tough front 
against Keenan, the same way 
Messier (and not Keenan) led his 
New York Rangers to the Stanley 
Cup in 1994.
Jessica Strelitz is a sophomore 
professional writing major who 
would like to offer this piece of 
trivia  Ray Bourque of the Bos
ton Bruins was the Calder Cup 
winner the year that Gretzky en
tered the NHL in 1979.
Chris Adukaitis is a junior civil 
and environmental engineer ma
jor who thinks that IM hockey 
referees ought to invest in i 
and/or contact lenses.
India stomps Pakistan in titanic clash
International Sports
By Rahul Aggarwal
With the minnows out of this 
World Cup, the real tourna
ment finally got underway  
sudden death. Nothing is big
ger in world cricket than an 
India-Pakistan game, and that 
was one of the quarter-final ties. 
The last time a game between 
these two sparring countries 
was played in non-neutral ter
ritory was back in 1989, when 
Pakistan was the victor. India 
has the mighty Sachin 
Tendulkar while Pakistan has 
the sheer pace ofWaqarYounis. 
On paper, Pakistan probably 
has a better all-round side  a 
solid batting line-up and one 
of the best bowling attacks in 
the world. India, on the other 
hand, also has a strong bat
ting line-up, but the chink in 
their armor is their bowling 
attack. This was highlighted 
by the defeat at the hands of 
the Sri Lankans and the fact 
that India struggled to bowl 
out Zimbabwe in the group 
games. The scene was set for 
a clash of the titans. The venue: 
Bangalores Chinnaswamy 
Stadium. Security had been 
stepped up in anticipation of a 
threat by the Shiv Sena extrem
ist group to disrupt the match.
Pakistan suffered a huge body 
blow before the match, when 
skipper Wasim Akram was de
clared unfit. India won the toss 
and elected to bat. Sachin 
Tendulkar and Navjot Sidhu 
started tentatively but soon 
started to middle the ball. Sidhu 
in particular was lethal on any
thing short of a length and 
looked to attack most balls. On 
the other hand, Tendulkar 
played a more watchful inning 
than usual. I think that the pres
sure on him to perform in front 
of a home crowd and against the 
arch enemy, Pakistan, got to 
him and this showed in his 
manner of dismissal  a tenta
tive prod to a decent length ball, 
which he played on to his 
stumps. In recent matches In
dia has relied so much on him to 
perform, that the general con
sensus among Indians is that 
whenever Tendulkar fails, so 
does India. This was indicated 
by the deathly hush in the sta
dium as he walked back to the 
pavilion. The following bats
men, Sanjay Manjrekav. 
Mohammed Azharuddin, and 
Vinod Kambli, all looked rea
sonably comfortable against the 
Pakistani attack but only man
aged to make the 20s. Sidhu, 
seven short of a deserved cen
tury, was clean bowled by a 
Mushtaq flipper, trying to heave 
him over the top. India seemed 
to be heading for a total of
packetSun Splash Tours 
1-800-426-7710
is summer you can 
_speak Russian, meet Jefferson, 
jfand get to know Billy Wilder...
5uCub C. 6mC6 1yt duC mumt .b duC .1Ct i.l14Mm RPMubnMC7 
Mn Cu ylm6u C. 4u CMn n1ub gu S1ub SunnM.P .22ubn mP 
u@CuPnMu bmPdu .2 dbm1mCu mP 1Pubdbm1mCu m7 mP uuPMPd 
6.1bnun MP Cu >1mPMCMunt S6MuP6un mP S.6Mml S6MuP6un
Our 96 offerings include:
Mmptd.pp wnD..Dp Kdpotomo. Ac.DotItcno. 1D4eDn 
1D.1nDtde itu.Dni nDop eDnzmno.p A4D umptd.pp 
pcL44i 4D I4D cnD..Dp td oL. umptd.pp 4Diz?
' Vnpo 5ptnd mptc8 Ltpo4Dg ndz ito.DnomD.
' winpptcp ' w41mo.D lct.dc. ' kmnd DteLop
' 2. 4D nDcLto.comD. ' l1..cL ' W4.dZp 
pomzt.p ' WDtotde ' tzztpLaaao4 dn. n I.a
Uimp8 pomzgEnuD4nz 1D4eDnp td Konig ndz UnDtpa
Call for our complete course listing
(212) 854-2820ext.B 10
fD InT mp ARSR? PHOEjO::
Our e-mail address: summersession@columbia.edu
(Please include postal mailing address)
Columbia University
SUMMER SESSION 96
Student Services Center. Lewisolin Hall (BC).2970 Broadway Rm. 203. NYC 10027-6902
We are an affirmative action/equal opportunity institution.
11148 04u c4uld cut the g8ass1
around 250 from their 50 overs 
but the new batsman Ajay Jadeja 
had different ideas. The manner 
in which he repeatedly dispatched 
Waqar Younis, one of the worlds 
best bowlers, to the boundary was 
breathtaking. I never thought that 
Jadeja would be able to massacre 
top class bowlers, but he was so 
superior over Younis that he was 
made to look nothing more than 
an English county bowler! I have 
never seen Younis treated with so 
much disdain. The bowler him
self couldnt believe it. Having 
conceded only 27 runs from his 
previous eight overs, he wilted 
under the pressure of Jadejas on
slaught and conceded 40 runs in 
his last two overs!
Jadeja was eventually out for 
a scintil]
Aamir Sohail made mincemeat 
of the Indian bowlers and rattled 
up 50 in only six overs. Even after 
Anwars dismissal, Sohail, act
ing as skipper, continued his on
slaught, taking full advantage of 
the 15 over rule  hitting over 
the top. Pakistan required a run 
rate of 5.75 and were going at 
about eight an over instead. The 
crowd went silent again and one 
could tell that the pressure was 
mounting on the Indian players.
Prasad was now on fire and 
captured two more wickets in his 
next two overs. Much relied now 
on Salim Malik and Javed 
Miandad  they had to stay to
gether at the crease to give Paki
stan a chance of vic
tory. Malik 
" Was look1 n s
lating 
45 off only 
25 balls.
Jadeja has at 
last found himself the 
right slot to bat. He used 
to open the innings, but has never 
looked totally comfortable. He 
shuffles around his crease a lot 
when facing the new ball and con
sequently gives his wicket away 
cheaply. Since he has moved down 
the order, he looks an altogether 
more confident and accomplished 
player. His main strength is his 
impeccable timing. Without a 
doubt he has the potential to be 
another great Indian batsman.
India eventually amassed a 
huge score of 287/8.
Could Pakistan break Indian 
hearts by beating them in India? 
Well after 10 overs it certainly 
looked the case. Saeed Anwar and
5to9nDvsnDond Mmptd.pp 0ndne.D
particu
larly danger
ous and was 
scoring quite 
freely until Anil Kumble trapped 
him LBW. This was a crucial 
wicket. The new batsman, Rashid 
Latif, made his intentions quite 
clear when he smashed Srinaths 
first ball back over his head for 
six. Venkatapathy Raju eventu
ally had him stumped and from 
then on Pakistan was always 
fighting a losing battle. Miandad 
was run out and Kumble was 
unplayable for the tailenders.
It was left to Younis and Aaqib 
Javed to bat out the remaining 
few overs and to surrender defeat 
at the hands of India. The crowd 
went wild  firecrackers explod
ing, cheering and the lighting of
torches. Who can blame them?; 
Their team had performed. It 
was party time for Indians ev
erywhere  India had beaten 
their enemy by 39 runs in a 
thrilling game. India is now only 
two games away from fulfilling 
their supporters dreams  be
coming the World Champions of 
Cricket again.
In the other quarter final, Sri 
Lanka played England. Five 
years ago England would have 
beaten Sri Lanka nine times out 
of 10, but Sri Lanka has im
proved so much in recent years 
that many people are fancying 
them to win the World Cup. 
Their batting has so much depth 
and class that they can bat any 
side out of a . game, as Kenya 
found out to their dismay. En
gland chose to bat first and yet 
again struggled to put up a de
cent total. They managed only 
235/8 from their 50 overs, with 
Philip DeFreitas the only bats-*! 
man to put up a real fight 
with a dashing 67.
Chaminda Vaas and: 
Muthiah Muralitharan; 
were impressive for Sri; 
Lanka. Considering Sri 
Lanka scored 272 
I against India easily and 
hit a world record 397 
against Kenya, a target 
of236 should seem noth
ing to the Sri Lankans. 
That was precisely their 
attitude. Despite losing 
r; # the dynamic Romesh 
Kaluwitharana early on, 
IF Sanath Jayasuriya tore the
English bowling to shreds 
scoring 82 off only 43 balls.; 
They lost a few wickets and 
ended up reaching their target 
with nine overs to spare.
Now Sri Lanka will meet In-, 
dia in one of the semi-finals at 
Eden Gardens, Calcutta. India 
will be looking for revenge andtheir best way of achieving this 
is if India bats second. Sri Lanka 
can practically chase any score 
and so if I was Azharuddin and 
won the toss, I would definitely 
put Sri Lanka into bat first.
The winners of the South Af
rica vs. West Indies game wiL 
take on either Australia or New 
Zealand in the other semi-final.
Come this Sunday, new World 
Champions will be crowned in 
Lahore. My money is on an Aus
tralia vs. India final.
Rahul Aggarwal is a junior 
IM major.
classified
FOR SALE
s4dp.dz M44p.ii.Dp tp umgtde ndz 
p.iitde mnitog mp.z ndz DnD. u44p td nii 
pcL4inDig pmu-.cop ndz ito.DnomD.a M.po 
1Dtc.p 1ntz 4D e.d.D4mp oDnz. cD.ztoa $tpto 
mp ItDpo I4D 4moE4IE1Dtdo otoi.pa hD.. 4dEitd. 
p.nDcLa f1.d zntig 04dElno SSEx8 lmd SE 
Ha 2.nD cn1mp no OxSR k.dDg loa A4II 
lawDnte?a xPREP:B:a .Enti 
o4dp.dz)tdo.Di4cac4
HOUSING
24DoL fnindz8 lLnzgptz.8 lmtDD.i ktii
pomzt4p8 4d.8 o4 ndz oLD.. u.zD44pa 
^mnitog n1nDo.dop no D.np4dnui. D.dopa 
sL. 51nDo.do 2.o4D OOSESO::a wnii 
I4D tdI4Dnot4d ndz n uD4cLmD.a
24DoLvfnindz E hD.. L.noJ 04q. tdo4 
g4mD ID.pLig 1ntdo.z 1 4D 2 u.zD44 
mdImDdtpL.z n1nDo.doa 4mD n1nDo.do 
tii I.nomD. n p1nct4mp Ii44D 1ind8 tdo.Dc4 
umtiztde8 .ToDn po4Dne.8 ndz inmdzDg 
Inctitot.pa fd. u.zD44p ponDo no QOBH 
ndz R u.zD44p no QHBHa W. nD. 
D.p.Dqtde n1nDo.dop I4D Inii d4a 5ii 
motitot.p tdcimz.za wnii d4J B,SExSx:a
JOBS
lm.D y4upE 7tq.Etd D.ptz.dotni 
1D4eDn8 ymd. SjoL o4 ymig RxoL 4Dtde 
toL LteL pcL44i pomz.dop td nd ncnz.tc 
.dqtD4d.doa F44 ndz u4nDz tp 
1D4qtz.z td nzztot4d o4 n pninDga 0mpo u. 
cmDD.do c4ii.e. pomz.do 4D c4ii.e. 
eDnzmno.a 0tdtm CaUa5a RaHa VT1.Dt
.dc. toL g4moL 1D4eDnp 1D.I.DD.za 
l.dptotqtog o4 oL. d..zp o4 o..dne.Dp n 
mpoa wnii PSOEOjREB:RB ug d44d8
0nDcL RH8 S,,x o4 4uontd nd n11itcnot4da 
N1nDz M4mdz UD4eDn8 lntdo hDndctp 
w4ii.e.8 74D.oo48 U58 SH,O:a
VnDd HB:a l4.Dp d..z.z I4D D.p.nDcL 
pomzga Kdq4iq.p I4mD HEOH tdmo. qtptop o4 
sL. Ndtq.Dptog 4I UtoopumDeL l4tde 
F.p.nDcL E BPBER:HOa
lm.D f114Domdtog E U.DI.co pm.D 
-4u no u.nmotImi p.ootde no inDe.8 ci.nD 
0ntd. in.a wnDtde ndz .d.De.otc 1..Dp8 
o.ncL g4mD ptii8 ndz pnq. 4d.ga wnd 
g4m o.ncL ndg 4I oL. I4ii4tde o.ddtp8 
nDcL.Dg8 dnomD.8 qtz.48 DtIi.Dg8 
tdzpmDItde8 cnd4.tde8 pntitde8 unp.ounii8 
c.Dntcp8 44z4D8 pttde AWlK 4D 
7tI.emnDz?& 5e. S,Ga sDndp14Donot4d 
1D4qtz.za xvSP EPvSPa wnii wn1 
Wtdd.une48 P::E,BRESxOx 4D j:BEOBjE 
:P:P 4D Dto. Sx:x WnpLtdeo4d Uinrn8 
F.po4d8 $5 RR:,:/ .Enti 
nzzD.ppUkK7wWk$)n4iac4a l.. 4mD 
L4. 1ne. no Loo1vv 
ac.doc4dac4ac4vEWtdd.une4a
SERVICES
5i.T6p hi4.Dp I4D I4Dnip8 D4ndc.8 
1ino4dtc ndz 4D.a M4mop ndz c4Dpne.pa 
QRa,H ndz m1a xPjEOSRPv xPjE57V3a 
AwDnte ndz MngnDz lopa? b.itq.Dga
JRAVEL
hD.. sDt1p + wnpLJ htdz 4mo L4 
LmdzD.zp 4I pomz.dop nD. niD.nzg .nDdtde 
ID.. oDt1p ndz i4op 4I cnpL toL 5.Dtcn6p 
S l1Dtde MD.n w41ndgJ l.ii 4dig SH 
oDt1p ndz oDnq.i ID..J wL44p. wndc"d8 
MnLnnp8 0nrnoind8 4D hi4DtznJ wnii d4J 
sn. n uD.n pomz.do oDnq.i AP::?E,HE
MD.nJ
0.Ttc4vwnDtuu.nd QSP, Fs8 VmD41. 
QSx, fW +
b4.potc z.potdnot4dp cL.n1J KI g4m cnd 
u.no oL.p. 1Dtc.p8 ponDo g4mD 4d znd 
ntDitd.a 5tDEs.cL8 7oza
RSRERS,Ej:::a tdI4D)n.D4o.cLac4a 
Loo1vvcn1mpad.ovn.D4o.cLa
l.. VmD41.J hD.. tdI4Dnot4d 4d k4po.i 
cnDzp8 VmDnti 1npp.p8 Kdo.Ddnot4dni poD..o Kb 
cnDzpa wnii UtoopumDeL 5k8 ORRERRPR 4D 
Loo1vvtdI4a1tooa.zmvEnDtndd.v 
L4po.iaLoi
VmD41. HSx,a wnDtuu.ndv0.Ttc4 QSP, 
Fvsa M. n itooi. Ii.Ttui. ndz pnq. QQQa
W.6ii L.i1 g4m u.no oL. ntDitd. 1Dtc.pa 
b.potdnot4dp 4Diztz.a 5tDLtocL P::E 
BRxER::,a ntDLtocL)d.oc4ac4a
Classified Rates
1-20 4DzpaaaaaaaaaaaaQ10a00v
RSEH: 4DzpaaaaaaaaaaaQSRa::v
HSES:: 4DzpaaaaaaQSHa::v
05K7 sf
sL. snDond8 M4Tt j 
wnDd.et. 0.ii4d Ndtq.Dtptog 
UtoopumDeL8 U5 SHRSBEBP,:
'winpptIt.zp mpo u. 1ntz td cnpL 4D 
cL.c u.I4D. ItDpo Dmd zno.
'fdEcn1mp z.1nDo.dop ndz 4Dendtrn
ot4dp ng 1ng ug -4mDdni oDndpI.D
'bm. ug H 1 oL. sLmDpzng u.I4D. 
1muitcnot4d
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
c.l1u Fzt vnn1u HFgu gmbCmPt imbPudMu Tull.P RPMubnMC7t AMCCn41bdt AuPPn7lmPMmHH Tmb6 HFF3
S9Mubn umC 1y Rppn
By SUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens swimming team 
placed fourth and the womens 
swimming team placed sixth in 
the United Ath
letic Associa
tion Champion
ships, held two 
weeks ago at 
Washington 
University in 
St. Louis. The 
women im
proved from 
last seasons 
seventh-place 
finish, while 
the men fell 
from their pre
vious secondplace finish. Se
nior Rebecca 
Fruehan quali
fied for the
season and placed in the top eight 
in all of the events in last seasons 
national tournament.
Swimmers from both teams 
agreed that they were physi
cally well-trained for the chambut the swimmers had always 
risen to the challenge on the 
basis of their combined talent.
Junior Chris ORourke said that 
the [mens] team had a bit of a 
let-down due to their fourthynp4d lt.e.dz4DIvsnDond UL4o4 Vzto4D 
The women's swim team came in sixth this year, improving over last seasons seventhplace finish.
NCAA Championships for the 
womens team and seniors Mat
thew Moe and Geoff Waller quali
fied for the mens team. Waller 
won the 1650-yard freestyle in an 
NCAA qualifying time of 16:30.63 
while Moe won the 500-yard 
freestyle (4:43.37).
Fruehan was named the 
Womens Swimmer-of-the-Year 
for the third consecutive year af
ter capturing the 100-, 200-, and 
500-yard freestyle titles. Fruehan 
also set Washington pool records 
in the 200- and 500-yard 
freestyles with respective times 
of 1:55.28 and 5:08.41. Fruehan 
won the 100-yard freestyle with a 
time of 53.45 seconds
Fruehan is looking to the na
tionals with high expectations, 
especially because this is her fi
nal year to compete. She said, Id 
like to improve from last year 
and place first in an event this 
year. Fruehan had two thirdand one fourth-place finish last
pionships. Sophomore Kristy 
Partovi said that both teams 
had high expectations based on 
their strenuous practices. We 
trained really hard, so we ex
pected to do well in the meet, 
she said.
All-UAA performers on the 
womens team included Michelle 
Kondo who was third in the 1650- 
yard freestyle (18:13.61), the sec
ond-place 800-yard freestyle re
lay team (8:13.42), comprised of 
Fruehan, Kondo, Jennifer Skuly 
and Christina Hagopian, and the 
third-place 400-yard freestyle 
relay team (3:44.82), comprised 
of Hagopian, Fruehan, Skuly, and 
Carly Cenedella.
Fruehan also attributed the 
success of the team to the strong 
support system that helped 
push the team during the long 
season. Throughout the season, 
the womens team was con
stantly faced with the problem 
of having a very small team,
place finish. The men had high 
expectations throughout the sea
son since the team had most of 
the swimmers returned from 
last years successful team. 
However, the mens team did 
have excellent performances 
from several swimmers in the 
meet. The teams All-UAA per
formances included Waller in 
the 400-yard individual medley 
(third in 4:14.54) and 200-yard 
butterfly (1:56.29), the secondplace 800-yard freestyle relay 
(7:07.76), comprised of Waller, 
Moe, Mike Foster, and Mike 
Berty, and the third-place 200- 
yard medley relay (1:39.25), 
comprised of Moe, Foster, Jake 
Soboleff and Keith Duwell.
Both teams are looking for
ward to building upon this 
seasons success next season. 
The teams feel that new recruits 
next season will also help fill 
the positions vacated by the 
graduating seniors.
Track teams compete at UAAs
By RICK SIMMONS
Tartan Staffwriter
Two weekends ago the mens and womens in
door track teams had their final meet of the season 
at Chicago University  the UAA championship 
meet. The men took fifth out of seven teams, which 
was good for the few number of people that partici
pated, according to coach Gary Meckley. The women 
placed fourth out of seven teams, which is the best 
theyve ever done, according to team member junipr Becky Buchheit.
The mens team was led by the high jumpers, 
pole vaulters, and shot putters. Sophomore Peter 
Hunt and freshman John Rohrbacher placed sec
ond and sixth, respectively, in the high jump. 
Hunts jump of 6'8" set a Carnegie Mellon record. 
In the pole vault, sophomore Rick Rikoski and 
freshman Aaron Binkley placed third and sixth, 
respectively. Rikoskis vault of 12'8" was a per
sonal best. Carnegie Mellon dominated the shot 
put. Freshman Steve Wetter took third, senior E. J.
Tsangaris took fourth, and senior Hiro Kanaya 
took sixth.
The teams overall standing was helped addi
tionally by junior Zack Conlys first-place finish in 
the high hurdles and also by the 4x400m relay 
teams fifth place finish. The relay team consisted 
of junior Casey Smith, Binkley, and freshmen 
Kristo Kriechbaum and Chris Louks.
On the womens side, the charge was led by 
senior Melissa Baustert, who placed first in the 
1500m and second in the 800m, and by Buchheit, 
who placed first in the 3000m and second in the 
5000m. Freshman Melissa Lotts third place in the 
5000m and freshman Maureen McGranaghans 
third place in the 3000m boosted the teams score 
as well.
Perhaps the most incredible performance thi? 
season, though, was Bausterts at the national 
meet at Smith College this past weekend. A few 
weeks ago, she qualified to compete in the 800m. 
She ran extremely well at the national meet, plac
ing fourth in her event.
IM Night showcases CMUs 
intramural basketball skills
By ADAM VINCENT
Tartan Staffwriter 
& PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Editor
Last Thursday, the best of 
CMUs intramural basketball 
teams battled it out in Skibo 
Gymnasium to see who would 
walk away with the 1996 Intra
mural Championship 
titles. Since the season 
kicked off back on Janu
ary 30, the 91 intramu
ral teams had been cut 
down to the best two 
teams in each of the 
four divisions: minors, 
women, intermediate, 
and majors.
The minors contend
ers, PKT Damn Bs (7-0) 
and Delt Scrubs A (8-0), 
wre first to take to the 
hardcourt on Thursday.
The Delt Scrubs led 
through most of the first 
half and held a 18-14 
lead going into the fourth 
quarter. But PKT came 
storming back in the 
fourth, going up 23-21. 
However, a buzzerbeater tied the score at 
23. In the overtime pe
riod, only one basket was 
scored  a foul shot by 
PKT. This shot put the 
final score at 2423 to 
give PKT the minors in
tramural championship.
PKT was led by junior 
Moonss 10 points and junior 
Rian Longs eight, while the 
balanced attack of the Delt 
Scrubs was led by junior Kelly 
McCulloughs seven points 
and junior Brant Partingtons 
six points.
In the womens game, it was 
the Soccer Babes (6-1) soundly 
defeating Random Collection 
(5-2) by a score of 34-24. The 
game was dominated by the Soc
cer Babes, who led 12-2 at the 
end of the first quarter and 23- 
12 at halftime. In the end, it 
was just too balanced of a scor
ing attack for Random 
Collectionss two-person defense 
to handle. Sophomore Kim 
Umeda and freshman Allison 
Higgins led the Soccer Babes 
with eight points each, and se
nior Erika Banuelos and sopho
more Mae Hogan each added 
another six. Random Collection 
was led by junior Anne 
Donovans 12 points and senior 
Teresa Abernathys eight points.
The intermediates game was 
a fast-paced matchup between 
the PKT Agongs (7-1) and 
Kappa Sigma (72).' Kappa 
Sigma took off from the opening
tip-off and ran up a 9-0 lead, 
with most of the points coming 
from sophomore Jason Reinsch. 
PKT got its first points on the 
board late in the first quarter 
when sophomore Karim Muri 
hit one from just inside the 
three-point line. Reinsch con
tinued his strong shooting for 
Kappa Sigma throughout the
Cmponq4 lendr.DinvsnDond UL4o4eDn1L.D 
Navy grad student Bryan Molloseau attempts to 
block Beta senior Rick Kings powerful layup.
Nick rest of the quarter, while PKTs 
only points came from senior 
Greg Mumpowers layup and a 
late free throw to make the score 
5-14, Kappa Sigma.
PKT came out strong in the 
second quarter, with points from 
Muri, senior Niranjan 
Sundaram, and Mumpower. A 
three-pointer from Kappa 
Sigma sophomore John Klein 
and a layup from freshman 
Bobby Towcimak made up the 
bulk of the Kappa Sigma offen
sive, and at the end of the quar
ter Kappa Sigma maintained a 
narrower lead, 17-22,
The third quarter was a hardfought battle, and PKT began to 
to take control of the game.
There were a few traded shots 
and several free throws, but by 
the end of the quarter, the score 
stood at 2025, Kappa Sigma.
The action in the fourth quar
ter put the record-attendance 
crowd on its feet, shouting and 
cheering for the two teams fight
ing it out on the court. Early in 
the quarter, Kappa Sigma 
sophomore Peter Hayes sank 
two free throws to put the score 
at 2027. PKTs Muri hit an
other three-pointer, and
Mumpower sunk a free throw to 
close the gap yet again, 24-27. 
Then a stolen ball set up the 
biggest crowd-pleaser of the 
night as PKTs Sundaram 
charged down the court on a fast 
break to slam-dunk the ball and 
put the Agongs within one point, 
26-27. A pair of free throws by 
Muri tied and then put PKT in 
the lead for the first 
time of the game, 28- 
27 with just under four 
minutes left to play. A 
PKT penalty allowed 
Kappa Sigma to retie 
the game, and seconds 
later another penalty 
allowed Kappa Sigma 
to retake the lead, 28- 
29. PKT put an end to 
that trend as Muri 
sank a three-pointer, 
senior Fred Saab shot 
another two, and Muri 
put away two free 
throws to end the PKT 
run at 35-29. Kappa 
Sigma sophomore 
Matt Farrell shot two 
free throws to make it 
3531 with 50 seconds 
left. Another two free 
throws rounded out the 
scoring for the game, 
and PKT claimed their 
come-from-behind vic
tory, 37-31, and the in
termediates title.
IM night finished 
with the majors cham
pionships: the Beta Big Men (7- 
2) vs. Navy (9-0). The game 
started very even, as both teams 
traded baskets. With 1:43 left to 
play in the first quarter, the 
score stood tied at eight points 
apiece. Graduate student Joe 
Boyles buried the majority of 
points for the Big Men in the 
first quarter, while grad student 
Bryan Molloseau scored most of 
Navys early points. Then Beta 
began to take control, finishing 
the quarter 13-8. In the second 
quarter of play, Beta continued 
their run on the board. Boyles 
and senior Lee Anton traded 
baskets, and seniors Aaron Neal 
and Rick King contributed to 
the streak. Grad student Jason 
Harman hit a few layups, but 
Beta broadened their lead to 26- 
12. The third had some tough, 
even play, but Beta continued to 
control the pace of the games 
scoring. Navys Harman and 
Molloseau sunk several free 
throws, but Beta remained in 
control to maintain a 32-17 lead 
at the end of the third. This 
momentum carried through the 
fourth quarter as Beta hit shot 
after shot to run the final score 
up to 55-30 and win the title.
Hockey club loses championship match to Penn State West, 5-4
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
On Saturday, February 24, the 
Carnegie Mellon Hockey team drove to 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania to 
fight for the championship. They had, 
the previous weekend, clinched the num
ber 1 spot in the division with a 10-11 
record. This was championship week
end, and after a first-round Friday night 
bye, they found themselves facing the 
number 2 team in the opposing division, 
Penn State West.
It looked like a cakewalk. The first 10 
minutes could have been the best play 
by the team all season. The defense, 
sparked by the return of sophomore Paul 
Voulgaris, dug hard in the corner and 
connected with the offense to produce 
strong rushes. Six minutes into the pe
riod, junior winger Jim Buck slipped the 
puck back to assistant captain Chris 
Adukaitis, who sent the disk towards 
junior Ray Ardire. Ardire scored, the 
shift was quickly changed, and the sec
ond line found the same combination of 
play with sophomore winger Scott 
Fitzgerald connecting with junior Relja 
Ivanovic only eight seconds later to set
the early score at 2-0 CMU.
The team was playing the same hockey 
that won them the Allegheny game the 
weekend before. Starting goaltender, 
junior Jon Kliegman was physically play
ing outstanding in net, executing spoton reflexes. With nine minutes left in 
the period Ivanovic scored again, this 
one also coming from Fitzgerald, mak
ing it 3-0, CMU.
With a substantial lead and the whole 
game to play, nobody could believe that 
this was the same PSW team that had 
beaten the Tartans in exhibition play 
10-4 earlier in the season. But if CMU 
relaxed, it was a bit too much, because 
their intensity in those first 10 minutes 
could have carried them through the 
entire game. Penn State West scored 
two quick goals as the period went on, 
and although CMU was outshooting 
them 2-1, PSW had managed to make it 
a game after all. The team huddled 
around Coach FredMaddalena between 
periods, listening closely to his strategy. 
The short rest gave them a kick-start 
and senior Captain Roger Maddalena 
started the second with a goal, from 
Ardire and Voulgaris. Voulgaris, on a 
sweet defensive move deep in the CMU 
zone, sent the puck to Ardire through
traffic and Ardire then kicked it up to 
Maddalena with room to spare. CMUs 
lead was back .
Thats when the heavy hitting began. 
Up until then, there had been no penal
ties. Yet in the second, CMU was 
awarded all of the games penalties. They 
managed to kill all 
three, with the pen
alty-killing unit of 
Voulgaris and 
Adukaitis showing 
excellent stick and 
body work. The third 
penalty, however, 
came at the end of the 
period after PSW had 
just scored their third 
goal, to end that pe
riod on a rather sour 
note.
The first 10 minutes 
of the third were 
played evenly and 
quick. But CMUs legs 
started to buckle; their 
skates seemed slow.
Despite a flurry of 
shots, PSW was man
aging an equal 
amount of saves. PSW
managed to tie the game with 10 min
utes left. CMU scrapped hard for that 
extra goal, but it continued to elude 
them. Defensemen Bryan Campo and 
Adukaitis continued to send the puck up 
into the PSW zone, only to have it dumped 
back down to them again.
y4pL hD..ndvsnDond UL4o4eDn1L.D 
Senior Captain Roger Maddalena blocks a Penn State West offenseman in 
last weeks championship game.
Coming off a time out, on a centering 
pass in front of the CMU net, Penn 
States Jack Jack, managed to slip the 
puck under Kliegman to put PSW up 5- 
4 with three minutes left. In those three 
minutes, Ardire made about four perfect 
shots but was simply stonewalled. PSWs 
goalie somehow gloved 
the shot that would have 
done it, a ripper with one 
and a half minutes to go. 
With 35 seconds left, 
Coach Maddalena called 
his players back to the 
bench. They had pulled 
goalie Kliegman, who had 
34 saves on the night.
Either we do it here or 
we go home. That was all 
that could be said. The 
Tartans took the ice, de
fended their open net, but 
they couldnt beat the 
time. The clock ran out 
and their illustrious sea
son of 14-5-1 was over. It 
was time to go home.
It was an exceptional 
third period. Simply they 
[PSW] got the goal and 
Please see HOCKEY, page 7

---------------------------------------------------

T TITT1T/MHIM IS 13IS spa 11LlVll^U
r
Volume 90, Issue 19The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania11 March 1996
CMU celebrates Womens History Month
Lectures explore womens issues
By SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Features Editor
Were setting aside time to celebrate 
women, to celebrate womens accom
plishments and reflect, said Kathleen 
Minadeo Johnson, the assistant to the 
associate provost for Academic projects, 
who along with Resiaence Life and the 
Womens Center, are the key sponsors 
for next weeks scheduled programming, 
which will be held in recognition of Na
tional Womens History Month.
Rather than focusing on the difficul
ties that women face in the professional 
and academic world, the lectures and 
panel discussions are geared towards 
the successes of women at CMU and 
how to incorporate them into their lives.
The Academic Provosts office is one of 
four sponsors for CMU Celebrates 
Women, a panel discussion where five 
women will share their definitions of 
success and their individual stories.
Moderated by Susan Ambrose, Direc
tor at the University Teaching Center 
and adjunct associate professor in the 
history department; the panel consists 
of Jennifer Goetz, senior Information 
and Decision Systems major; Margaret 
Kanipes, Ph.D candidate in the biologi
cal sciences; Vera Lampley, Secretary
II in the Office of Residence Life; Bar. bara McKenzie-Wood, an associate pro
fessor of drama and College of Fine Arts 
alumni, and Arts Consultant at the 
Western Pennsylvania School for the 
Deaf.
speak about my success, said McKenzieWood. Ive never really thought of my
self as successful, but success is such a 
relative thing. The more I thought about, 
the more I realized that this was the 
first opportunity Ive had to reflect upon 
my achievements, not just as a woman, 
but as an individual.
McKenzie-Wood finds that in her ex
periences, issues that are specific to 
women can be subtle, and because of 
that, easily pushed aside.  Im discover
ing in myself that there are insecurities 
that go much deeper than personal is
sues, she said. Man and women are 
trying to overcome barriers and stereo
types that we were raised with. 
Having just recieved tenure and a 
college teaching award, McKenzie Wood 
realizes how little thought she gives to 
her achievements. As women, we need 
to learn to own our successes, she said.
I set out to create stability an d secu
rity in [her and her sons] lives, she 
said. A Womens History Month makes 
you take responsibility for who you are. 
The concept of owning ones successes 
seems to be an issue, not for just 
McKenzie-Wood, but for all women. 
Women are continually trying to find 
balance in their lives, and never con
sider that balance to be an achieve
ment. Ive [come across] books that deal 
with womens issues, and recurring 
themes are dealing with success and 
insecurities, she said.
According to Goetz, another panelist, 
it is important to identify women on
to come together in a male-dominated 
school.
I think its especially important be
cause of all the incredible things women 
have done on this campus, past and 
present, said Goetz. We tend to forget 
that the history we know is a male 
history.
Goetz has found women at CMU expe
rience a type of isolation, in that they 
are so few in number. Professors try to 
be aware, but its something you just 
cant get around, she said. A member of 
the womens volleyball team, Goetz does 
sense an imbalance of attention in the 
athletic department.
Womens Volleyball is the only sport 
without a full time coach, she said. 
Goetz has also found an inconsistency 
in the amount of publicity and money 
put towards men and women sports.
As a faculty member, McKenzie -Wood 
considers herself very lucky in the equal 
status of women in the drama depart
ment.  I have had two very supportive 
women who have advised and supported 
me over the last 10 years. I think its 
very important for women in the same 
field to encourage each other, whether 
students or faculty.
Other programs that will take place 
next week range from gender communi
cation and overloading in graduate work 
to self-defense and the detrimental ef
fects of media stereotypes on women.
Former 70s model turned activist and 
founder ofMedia Watch, Anne Simonton 
will speak of the implications of beauty
I had to giggle at first when asked to campus as a unit, and to provide a place pageants and commercials on women me, he said.
and their 
self-per
ceptions.
Simontons 
presentation is 
co-sponsored by
CMUs Women Center and Residence 
Life. A member of the Center, Jeremy 
Brooks, literary and cultural studies 
and creative writing major, finds it 
difficult to ignore womens issues by 
applying theory to everyday life. I try 
to avoid situations where a lack of 
respect is shown towards women, said 
Brooks. My whole opinion on any 
month is that its really crappy that it 
has to be done, but its important that 
oppressed groups are recognized and 
that we disseminate information to 
people.
McKenzie-Wood encourages both 
men and women to attend next week 
programming, the benefits far-reach
ing to all peoples. I believe that the 
CMU community is sincere in their 
support of women or such a conference 
would not exist, she said.
Freshman music major, Gabriel 
Brooke notices the most disregard in 
the day to day interactions among 
people. Most of the time people arent 
aware of the way in which gender 
politics are played out. I have realized 
that I have a stake in the struggle...! 
[cannot] live in a society where my 
partner, friends, mother, perhaps 
daughter, would be categorically de
fined as less important, or less able than
Administrator strives to affect lives of women at CMU
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Despite the small percentage of women who 
make up the student body at CMU, many of the 
Universitys undergraduates, graduates, and fac
ulty members are active in creating awareness 
about the needs of women. One such woman is 
; Barbara Lazarus, associate provost for aca
demic projects.
Lazarus works with all of the universitys 
colleges on academic support programs. She 
collaborates with graduate and undergraduate 
counsels, and she is the supervisor of many 
areas including undergraduate research, sup
port for graduate women, graduate minorities, 
and undergraduate women with an emphasis on 
science.
Lazarus strives to help women, as well as 
make changes so that women can get the most 
out of CMU. She said, I tend to look at it in two 
ways: How can we support women students to 
succeed in the environment as it is? What can we 
do to change the environment so it better accom
modates women? We try to balance both of these 
things out.
Some of the programs that Lazarus organizes 
are faculty women and graduate women gather
ings. These programs meet approximately eight 
times a year, and are ideal for women to talk and 
network. Recently, a dinner was held in honor of 
women in science, which many undergraduates 
and faculty attended. On Thursday night, at
the science dinner, many men on faculty 
came to celebrate women, she said.
They want to support women, and 
would like to see more of them 
here. I have to believe, with all of 
these people coming, these ac
tivities will have some impact.
Lazarus is also working 
on a book that profiles 
women engineers and sci
entists. She explains that 
the book features an eclec
tic mix of successful 
women. The profiles are of 
90 or so women of all walks of 
life. Each is unique in regards to 
race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic 
background, she said.
Lazarus feels that diversity is an 
important element to incorporate into 
the book in order to teach a wider 
range of women.
When girls and women dont see 
themselves and dont relate to who 
they are reading about, its hard for 
them to do something, she said. We 
cant change an institution suddenly 
and bring in a woman who represents 
everyone  a black woman, a spanish 
woman, a lesbian, a single mom. What we 
can do is incorporate them into a book. 
Then, a woman who relates to the person in 
the book can say If I want to do this, I can.
One of Lazaruss main goals is to make a 
change within the University. She 
said, I always ask myself, What 
can I do to make a difference? 
What we have to understand 
is that most institutions are 
made by people. These people 
make the institution work for 
themselves. This institution 
was made by white men. 
Mostly by default there are 
things that need to change. 
The world has changed 
since Carnegie Mellon was 
established.
However, it is a wellknown fact that there are a 
great deal more men than 
women at the CMU. Lazarus 
believes this can affect many 
aspects of a womans college 
experience. Every piece of 
research says that when any 
group is in the minority, per
formance is affected, usually 
negatively, she said. Confi
dence and performance levels 
are lower. A woman may be less 
likely to speak, be heard, and ask 
questions in a classroom environment 
where she is the only female student. 
She is less likely to feel her questions 
are answered adequately. This we have
to remember, though, is not every individual. It 
pertains to the student body at large.
For instance, in some schools at CMU, female 
students are in the majority. In this case a 
woman is going to have an entirely contrasting 
experience to that of a woman in a field of study 
where she is in the minority. Lazarus said, 
Because this is such a decentralized place, 
people spend much time in their departments. 
Your experience could be wildly different than 
another student based on what your major is. An 
example of this would be if you have a woman in 
art who has a best friend in ECE, the nature of 
their experiences will be completely opposite.
She finds that the lack of women here affects 
both men and women in terms of social life as 
well. Lazarus said, Many people would like to 
see us recruit a more balanced group of stu
dents. Socially, the ratio has an extreme compli
cated impact on men and women. I know this 
from what students say. I believe that men and 
women concerned about women should do more.
Changes that are needed at CMU only mirror 
any imbalances on a worldwide level. It is an 
ongoing struggle that needs persistence and 
time. Lazarus said, We live in a society where 
most people would argue that we have not 
reached equity for women. That is a continuing 
challenge.
March is National Women's History Month. 
For informatin on next weeks lectures and pre
sentations, call Residence Life.
CMU Women make history...
Margaret Mead
 1920s anthropologist who made 
lasting contributions in her field
Judith Resnik 
 Astronaut who died in the 
Challenger, her second 
mission
Nancy Marchand 
 Four-time Emmy winner, and 
accomplished Broadway actress 
graduate of Arts in 1949
Margaret Sanger 
 First person to openly 
support birth control
Judith Light
Actress from television series, 
Who s The Boss?
Holly Hunter
 1993 Academy Award Winner for 
her performance in The Piano
Mitig-Na Wen
 Actress known for her criti
cally acclaimed performance in 
The Joy Luck Club
Stephanie Kwolek 
 Graduate of Margaret Morrison 
* * * inventor of Ivevlar

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 March 1996
Student honors womens history
CRACKING THE MYTH
_______by Suzanne Paddock
March is Womens Herstory 
month. Originally, Womens 
Herstory month started as a day, 
then became a week, and now its 
a month. On March 8h, 1911 the 
first International Womens day 
was celebrated in Europe and 
eventually spread throughout the 
world where it continues to be 
pelebrated on March 8. Interna
tional Womens day was a prod
uct of first-wave feminism, com
monly known as the suffrage 
movement. The second wave of 
feminism progressed the celebra
tion of womens history further 
by extending International 
Womens day to a week in order 
to recognize womens place in his
tory.
In 1977 the idea for Womens 
Herstory week was created by 
the women who later founded the 
National Womens History 
Project. Eventually the National 
Womens History Project con
vinced Congress to officially rec
ognize Womens Herstory week. 
In 1981, a joint Congressional 
Resolution proclaimed that the 
week of March 8 to be Womens 
Herstory week. Popularity of 
Womens Herstory grew and in 
1987 Congress passed a resolu
tion signed by the President which 
acknowledged that the role of 
American women in history has 
been consistently overlooked and 
undervalued in the literature, 
teaching and study of American 
history, and asked that the
people of the United States to 
observe that month [March] with 
appropriate programs, ceremo
nies and activities. (Women 
Change America).
There is a dilemma though in 
celebrating Womens Herstory 
month. First, practically all the 
history about women has been 
eradicated by male history writ
ers so there is little record of 
anything at all. What remainsare the memoirs and accounts of 
amazingly radical women who 
impacted their world so much it 
was impossible to ignore them. 
But they stand as a few com
pared to all the women who have 
ever lived. The second dilemma 
is how to view womens history. 
Men and women have lived his
tory differently. When I took the 
class Women in American his
tory we didnt talk about the 
events of the various wars the 
U.S. has fought in, we didnt talk 
about presidents, we didnt talk 
about amazing scientific and 
medical discoveries. Though 
women have contributed to and 
been affected by wars, elections 
and scientific discoveries, overall 
they did not play a major role in 
most of them. Instead, we talked 
about how economics and race 
affected women, their opportuni
ties, and the expectations placed 
on them. So if women and men 
have lived history differently, can 
we study their histories in the 
same way?
Womens Herstory month is 
important to me because it means 
recognizing historys lost figures 
and reclaiming a past and heri
tage we didnt know we had. For 
instance, this is a presidential 
election year and still there are 
no women candidates. Can you 
imagine if and when a woman 
will be elected president. Most of
us can remember when Geraldine 
Ferraro ran for vice-president, 
but she was not the first. In 1972, 
Cissy Farenthold also ran for vicepresident in the Democratic 
nominational ticket. In that same 
year, Shirley Chisolm an Afri
can-American woman, ran for 
president in the Democratic 
nominational ticket. Before her, 
Victoria Woodhull ran for presi
dent in 1872 and Belva Lockwood 
ran in 1884 and 1888.
Everything everyone has said 
a woman couldnt do, some woman 
has done. During-the first and 
second World Wars, who do you 
think built all the guns, airplanes 
and aircraft carriers? Women. 
And during the Christian perse
cutions right after Jesus Christ 
died, women were priests and 
religious leaders. And in 600 BC 
in the Steppe country of Russia a 
nomadic civilization thrived in 
which women were the military 
and religious leaders who sacked 
parts of ancient Greece while their 
menfolk raised the children. And 
from about 35,000 BC to about 
9,000 BC most civilizations, wor
shipped mother earth, so even 
God was a woman.
So, during this month take the 
time to attend one of the various 
events going on, whether it be 
CMU Celebrates Women on 
March 21 or Ann Simontons pre
sentation of Sex, Power and the 
Media March 15, or you could 
attend Coffee Talk on Wednes
day of this week when we will be 
sharing our women herstories. 
Though much of our history is 
lost, we can still celebrate what 
we do know about women in the 
past and the women alive now.
Suzanne Paddock is a senior 
literary and cultural studies ma
jor and gender studies minor.
Columnist clamors for free food
PULP FREE
By Eric Salzman
Roast duck 
would do 
nicely. Dinner 
would be at 
about eight 
oclock in the 
evening. The 
lights would be 
dimmed just 
enough to in
stigate serious 
conversation. Perhaps after dinner, we could re
tire to the den and sit by a roaring fire. After about 
20 minutes of idle chit-chat, Id make my move. I 
usually start off with a humble line like I know 
you dont know me that well, but... and then Id 
just come out with it  Would you write me a 
letter of recommendation?
You thought I was on a date, didnt you? Ha! Who 
the hell at this socially inept university has dates 
with roast duck and a roaring fire? No folks, Im 
dining with a prof if I have my druthers. Now call 
me old fashioned, call me a mooch, call me hungry. 
I dont really care as long as some professor calls 
me for dinner before I graduate. Didnt they used 
to do that in the old days?
Professors would have students 
over to their homes for dinner. Theyd 
talk about all sorts of intellectual 
stuff, eat a good meal, and establish 
some sort of student/faculty rela
tionship. You know, the kind of rela
tionship that makes you feel like 
you can ask this esteemed vessel of 
wisdom for a letter of recommenda
tion for one of those nifty, non-pay
ing, over-working, humiliating, and 
downright degrading summer in
ternships were all so desperate to 
get our hands on  after all, they 
look great on a resume.
Quite honestly though, I wouldnt 
mind getting a bit of duck gravy or 
marinara sauce on one of my 
resumes. It would be a nice gesture 
on the part of one of my professors to 
have me over for dinner. Im a very 
polite dinner guest. Id be happy to
bring wine, but seeing as how Im underage, 
apple juice will have to do. Other than that, I 
always chew with my mouth closed, I put my 
napkin on my lap, I only eat with my hands 
when really hungry, and if you throw in a letter 
of recommendation, Ill even do the dishes. 
Dishes, um, never mind about that part.
I guess Im a bit of a romantic because I still 
have those darling illusions of the university 
life where great minds debate great issues, and 
professors are glad to invite a clever student or 
two over for dinner to have those brilliant all 
night talks. Perhaps I should be satisfied when 
my professors contribute to the classs bboard 
discussion. After all, I can eat dinner as I read 
the post. Somehow though, its just not the 
same. So how about it profs? Dinner? Your 
place? Eight oclock? You build the fire, Ill 
bring the marshmallows.
Eric Salzman is a junior, which gives all of 
his professors, past, present and future, just 
over a year to have him over for dinner. Get your 
invitation in now while there are still openings 
in his schedule.
CnuDt.d lg4dpvsnDond 5Do Vzto4D
BHA program in drama leaves its students dissatisfied
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
Its a wonderful concept, but you get 
short-changed a lot, said Anuj Vaidya, 
junior BHA major, of the Bachelor of the 
Humanities and the Arts program, a mar
riage between the College of Fine Arts 
and the College ofHumanities and Social 
Sciences. While complaints of this sort 
are not overly common, it seems that 
istudents of the BHA program in drama 
have not found the experience to be what 
they expected.
! The BHA program, devised and orga
nized three years ago, is a juncture of the 
itwo almost disparate colleges. In this 
major, students recieve a dual-discipline 
degree in any H&SS department either 
drama, music, art, or design. The pro
gram was created in order to accomodate 
students who were admitted to either 
H&SS or CFA and wanted more of a blend 
and new admits who simply did not want 
to apply to the arts program directly, 
said Peter Steams, Dean of H&SS.
This form of academic cross-pollination 
was, and still is, looked at by students as 
a way out of the exclusive confines of each 
major. However, it is these very confines 
that creates a great number of problems 
for transfer students and freshmen.
; It is everything people with multiple 
interests are looking for, said Justin 
Carroll, a former BHA student who trans
ferred to Brown University. But it is 
trying to be something CMU is not. The 
two schools are mutually exclusive, and I 
didnt feel that while I was there the gap 
was being bridged, he said.
There was a possible confusion about 
students in the drama concentration, 
said Steams. CFA, notably drama, is a 
conservatory environment in which the 
students are auditioned and enrolled with 
the idea that they would 
be the best applicants to 
work within the group.
Some students wanted 
really to be in dram a [and 
have an academic back
ground] and the BHA [in 
drama] doesnt permit 
that, he said.
The main problem is in 
cross-registration, ac
cording to many stu
dents. Some art classes 
meet during core H&SS 
classes and vice-versa.
The schedule of art stu
dents is not easily 
matched with the sched
ule on which H&SS bases 
its courses on. This, along 
with poor organization and undefined 
requirements, were complaints that BHA 
students had.
I reworked my 
envronment to suit my 
needs, said Robyn Nace, 
a junior BHA major with a 
concentration in drama and 
professional writing. If I 
didnt actively pursue the 
classes I wanted, I couldnt 
take the things I take. Its 
veiy hard to manage a CFA 
curriculum and an English 
curriculum.
Overall, Nace finds the program to be 
very rewarding, with a few drawbacks. 
CFA and H&SS just dont like to talk, 
she said. People dont know us, as ma
jors. She also wanted to dispel another
The program attempts to do something 
that has yet to be done on this campus 
bring two very dissimilar majors together 
in a manner that allows broad definitions 
of concentrations and interests. While 
the Information 
Systems depart
ment seems to do 
this by bringing CS 
and H&SS to
gether, it focuses 
more on the organizational side of 
things, said 
Stearns. In that 
sense, says Steams, 
the program should 
be commended in 
its efforts. However, 
one junior BHA in 
drama student, 
Hester Kamin, dis
likes the exclusiv
ity of the system, to 
the point of regretcommon myth that is slowly turning into ting her choice of major. I feel that Ive 
a problem. We are not the people who made a terrible mistake, that Im getting 
didnt get into CFA, she said. a terrible education and have wasted my
CnuDt.d lg4dpvsnDond 5Do Vzto4D
time here. Entering the drama depart
ment feels like invading hostile terri
tory.
Some other problems in the BHA such 
as its relative youth as a department has 
lead to its lack of stable organization. 
Various things are being investigated 
and being discussed, said Steams. Some 
ideas include a semester for BHA stu
dents in New York in order to study acting 
and production in a professional environ
ment. We are also looking into the prob
lems of auditioning and better organizing 
the classes.
The students are doing well. Applica
tion rates are very high. Were gaining a 
population. said Stearns. But some stu
dents may have misled expectations con
cerning the program. While Drama is 
the most maligned of the concentrations, 
it still has its positive points. Im enjoy
ing myself, said Nace. Art loves us, and 
so does music, she said.
While problems are apparent, students 
like Nace feel that the program will take 
a turn for the better and will adequately 
serve the needs of its students in the 
future.
epSSpR
ahaws
I REFUSE TO BE UNDERSOLD!
FOR TIE WILDEST SPRH6 BREAK EVER CALL'
DJ J
mrnmrnmmmmmom
STUDENT TRAVEL Flights lo Caarun. Nassau and Maznlan are Public Chnttn.Th: charier operaux is Tale A Break Studeni Travel. 
kghtj/it VTtJirk! The direct air carriers are Paradise Airways and Viscount Air Service. An Operator's Option Plan is required.
SYRACUSE
STUDY ABROAD
ViwbvUl 94aqliUagV 0hhliU
 Unmatched academic programs
 Internships with world-class firms
 Business courses in three countries
 Generous grants and scholarships
 Placement in foreign universities
 Instruction in English or 
host-country language
ITALY  ENGLAND  FRANCE 
HONG KONG  SPAIN  ZIMBABWE
Syracuse University Study Abroad 
119 Euclid Avenue  Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472  DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu
COLLEGE COURSES
FOR THE
Summen ol y 6
Pick-up extra courses this summer from the 
Community College of Allegheny County.
Hundreds of college credit courses are available this 
summer at CCAC...most are offered over a 6. 8 or 
10 week session. Courses are also transferable to 
other colleges and universities. And, at only $64 
per credit, make CCAC your first choice for 
affordable, quality education.
First Summer session begins in May.
Call now for a complete schedule of classes, or for 
registration information...
AlleghenyCampusBoyce CampusNorth CampusSouth Campus
North SideMonroevilleNorth HillsWest Milllin
237-2525371-8651366-700(1469-1 HM)

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 March 1996L3
Vira Heinz recipient granted research funds
Mg ANNEMARDE DEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
Karla Turcios will be going to 
Honduras this summer to re
search a subject close to the hearts 
of just about everyone at CMU 
the Internet. She is the 1996 win
ner of the Vira Heinz Award, an 
award given to a junior female for 
research or study abroad.
I want to research how Latin 
Americans are implementing the 
use of the Internet in private in
stitutions, governmental agen
cies, and public educational in
stitutions as well as homes...This 
research investigates not only 
transfer of technology between 
the US and Latin American coun
tries, but also the resulting social 
and economic results, she said.
Her interviews will focus on 
college aged students. She said, 
How do young, educated Latin 
Americans, from all social and 
economic stratas [sic] view their 
role in the resulting globalized 
economy as a result of technol
ogy? Thats my aim. Her interest 
lies in discovering how the 
Internet and other technology are 
affecting developing countries 
like Honduras, whether people 
see them as helpful tools or as 
something that displaces work
ers.
Another part of her study will 
be how the Internet affects the 
Latin American culture. The 
plan is to research how the Latino 
identity is changing as a result of 
mass-communications media, 
she said. I want to understand if 
these new technologies are cul
turally specific, as well as finan
cially discriminating.
Turcios, an art major, became 
interested in this subject in her 
Art in Context of the Community 
class. She started a research web 
site called CYBERAZA to give 
Latino artists exposure on the 
web. She explains the name:, 
CYBERAZA is a term that ap
plies the term Raza, a Chicano 
pride self-reference, to all Latinos 
that are proud of their culture,
but are also struggling with a 
new identity as a result of tech
nology and mass-media.
Turcios feels that her work will 
be beneficial to many people in 
that the Hondurans will learn 
about the Internet in her public 
workshops. Besides the interna
tional experience, she will also 
gain exposure as a web design 
consultant as she makes WWW 
pages for various non-profit and 
educational agencies in Hondu
ras.
Turcios hopes to bring back 
knowledge to the CMU commu
nity when she presents her find
ings, possibly at the International 
Festival, which focuses on Latin 
America and the Caribbean next 
year. I hope to bring CMU a 
broader perspective of the inter
national implications of what we 
study as technological, economic, 
or liberal arts students. I also 
hope to promote an understand
ing of how intricately the United 
States and Latin America are 
related, especially in the sense of
technology and economy, and the 
resulting hybrid cultures.
The Vira Heinz Award is given 
through an endowment and is 
run by the Study Abroad office. 
Turcios encourages others to ap
ply, despite any hesitance they 
might feel. She said, I was in
timidated myself, but the work 
was rewarded. She found the 
process not to be difficult, but a 
lot of work. You have to be very 
specific about your plans and al
ready have knowledge of what 
you want to research or study, so 
you can present yourself as a se
rious and responsible candidate. 
Turcios advice to others think
ing of applying includes estab
lishing solid connections in the 
country they want to study in 
and being self-critical of ones 
project. As a final word of advice 
Turcios said, Most importantly, 
do not short change yourself by 
only looking into Western coun
tries: abroad does not necessarily 
have to mean overseas, or Eu
rope.
ynp4d lt.e.dz4DIvsnDond UL4o4 Vzto4D 
Karla Turcios, the 1996 Vira Heinz Award recipient.
imPdun MP on6.bC y.lM67 4bMPd u22M6MuP67 C. 6my1n CbmPny.bCmCM.P
By AMIT KAR
Tartan Business Manager 
MATTHEW SOLITRO
Tartan Contributing Editor
Its not an uncommon thing for CMU 
students to find themselves on cam
pus at some dismal hour with only 
dark night and Pittsburgh weather 
between themselves and their homes. 
Even if the shuttle service is still 
operating, the routes often dont pass 
close enough to a students home to 
make them feel safe walking in the 
dark. Often times, the weather alone, 
especially during the winter months 
is enough to stop people walking even 
short distances.
CMU Escort has provided a mea
sure of relief under such circumstances 
for many students. Recently, the es
cort service has initiated a number of 
changes not only to improve the ser
vice for those who regularly use it but 
also to make it a desirable option for 
more of the campus community.
James Gagliardi, a sophomore civil 
engineering major and one of the es
cort drivers, said, Escort was a highclass taxi service for a few people. 
Were trying to move more people... 
since everyone is paying for it.
Michael Grosberg, Freshman H&SS, 
is not only an escort driver but was 
also heavily involved in the decision to 
change the service and in the 
design of the new service. Ac
cording to Grosberg, a recent sur
vey of passengers revealed that 
there was a core of frequent us
ers, riding the shuttle 4.2 times a 
week on average, but very few 
irregular users. He felt that the 
lack of infrequent users was due 
to the perceived problems of the 
service as it was before the 
changes were initiated.
The old system was often criti
cized for its irregularity and un
predictable response times. Pre
viously, riders could be picked 
up from any spot on campus. A pas
senger simply had to call the Escort 
dispatcher, who sits at Morewood Etower and request a pick up. The dis
patcher would then call the rider back
when a driver was on the way. Al
though this system was convenient 
because it did not have to involve any 
walking on the part of the passengers, 
it did have certain drawbacks.
Gagliardi said, People felt we 
wasted a lot time calling people, waitCnuDt.d lg4dpv snDond 5Do Vzto4D 
ing for people, and we tried to elimi
nate that.
Getting calls from different locations 
meant that the routes traveled by the 
escort vans were irregular. Potential
passengers could find themselves 
waiting for as little as five minutes or 
as long as half-an-hour. Also, since 
the vans did not service specific ar
eas, riders would often have to en
dure a long ride even though they had 
intended to travel only a short dis
tance.
Escort believes that the 
policy addresses all these 
problems. There are now four 
designated pick-up points 
around campus, each near a 
campus phone. Drivers now 
stop at all four points on both 
the outbound and inbound 
parts of their trips to see 
whether or not there are any 
waiting passengers. However, 
riders can still call the dis
patcher to find out when the a 
van will be stopping at one of 
the pick-up points. This
means that one does not have to wait 
a long time at a pick-up point  one 
simply has to call to find out when to 
walk down to the nearest point.
In addition, for most of CMU
Escorts hours of operation, there are 
two vans servicing two distinct areas, 
one responsible for Squirrel Hill and 
Shadyside, and the other for Oakland 
and Bloomfield.
While there are distinct areas that 
individual shuttles may serve, there 
are no specific routes. We dont have 
pre-set routes because that would in
terfere with PAT, said Grosberg. But 
the flexibility of not having pre-set 
routes has other advantages  driv
ers and passengers can swing by a 
drive-through when theyre hungry. 
Thats one of the great things about 
working for escort, said Grosberg. 
Gagliardi added, Riders will often say, 
Oh, we want to go to Rallys too!.
While escort is aware that the new 
policies may cause an inconvenience 
to people who would rather not have to 
walk to pick-up points, they feel that 
the changes are for the better.
Gagliardi said, Use the escort ser
vice, read the flyers to figure out how 
it works, and understand that its the 
whole campus that pays for escort and 
thats who were trying to serve.
IF YOU ONLY SEE ONE GREEK SING SHOW THIS YEAR, MAKE iT THIS ONE
SOLDIERS AND SAILORS
MEMORIAL HALL
4141 FIFTH AVENUE, OAKLAND
| Man Works WONDERS! Human Ingenuity is Without Limit! 1
3Vsz DHt m v3g>
It canitot be adequately described. It MUST be see to be appreciated, I
THE LATEST SENSATIONIN THEFASfflOMABIJE WORM
ARE *7.50 AND CAN BE PURCHASED AT THE RESIDENCE LIFE OFFICE 
ARE S8.00 If PURCHASED AT THE DOOR ON SHOW NfTE____________
5vZpfU r} rZ MONTY PYTHON m OF M MU DOO-WOP'TIL DAWN
GILLIGAN'S ISLAND
SPINAL TAPPI LAM GOES HOME PIPPIN
WHERE THE WOMEN ARE JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR FIRESIDE STORY 4ne:ROCKY HORROR PIC1URE SHOW
TRIUMVIRATE
PITTSBURGH PUBLIC LS
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE THIS WEEK 
IN FRONT OF DOHERTY HALL AND 
AT THE RESIDENCE LIFE OFFICE
CD TRADER
...the small store with the BIG selection
Trade in your unwanted CD's New CD's at 
discount prices 10,000 new & used CDs 
50 categories of music 
Listen to CD's before you buy
Alternative  Blues  Classical 
Jazz  New Age  Oldies 
Pop/Rock  Reggae  World
201 South Craig Street 
Monday  Friday, 10 a.m. - 6 p.m. 
Saturday, 11 a.m. - 5 p.m. 
Sunday, noon - 4 p.m. 
phone: 687-6626 Fax: 934-5414
iulu4bmCu gbmMCM.P
With aaml2.1b ilmnn fMPd
College memories can last a life^ time, when theyre preserved in a 
Balfour Class Ring. Sports,
^ academics, degrees, years of 
7 graduation and custom school 
designs can all be captured in your 
Balfour Class Ring.. .a tradition of 
excellence since 1913!
Thursday and Friday 
March 14 and 15 
10:00-3:00 pm 
Baker Hall 
$35.00 deposit
Balfour* No one remembers in so manym'ays.
Join the Technology Force of the Future!
Schlumberger is a worldwide, technology force which employs 
53,000 ambitious individuals in 97 countries with annual 
revenues approaching $7 billion. We are comprised of two 
main business groups: Oilfield Services, which offers a 
complete range of energy exploration and recovery services; 
and Measurement and Systems, which produces everything 
from utility meters to automatic test equipment to smart 
cards for the retail industry.
Here at Schlumberger youll enjoy the recognition that goes 
along with taking the responsibility for the work you direct. 
Well give you the support, training and opportunity you need 
to meet the challenges you'll face.
We are interested in interviewing students in Engineering, 
Computer Science, Geosciences and/or Applied Sciences. 
Schlumberger is an equal opportunity employer.
Information Meeting open to all interested 
students. Your attendance at the Information 
Meeting is a prerequisite to your interviewing process.. 
Please attend. Refreshments provided!
Carnegie Mellon Interviews!
Information Meeting - March 11,1996 
Interviewing - March 12,1996
Check with Placement Center for details.
Schlumberger
Explore Schlumberger @ http: //www.slb.com

---------------------------------------------------

DI LBERT  by Scott Adams
2yIC C ISDLSIIM 
MIN S02 c0ScIMSIp 
6L2y oyL0Sx d02 
2mF7 S02 oLMN
WHICH STAIN 
GOES WITH 
THIS TIET
DOGBERT, I NEED VOL) 
TO FACILITATE SOME 
MEETINGS.
I HATE MY SHIRTS. 
EACH ONE HAS EITHER 
A STAIN OR A 
MISSING r; 
BUTTON. f~S
...TO DECIDE ON 
A PROJECT NAME
WE'RE CREATING A 
PROCESS TO FIX OUR 
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT 
PROCESS. BUT FIRST 
WE'RE HAVING SOME 
PREPLANNING MEET
INGS .. .
WHAT KIND 
OF MEETINGS?DEFINITELY 
THE MARINARA.
HOU) ABOUT 
"DEATH SPIRAL"?
WOULD i HAJE to
YOU LIKE DWELL ON THE 
TO HEAR NEGATIVE. 
WHAT THE 
PROBLEM 
IS FIRSTT
I JUST GOT OUR 
CONSULTANT'S REPORT 
HE'S IDENTIFIED 
OUR BIGGEST 
PROBLEM.
I RECOMMEND THAT 
WE BUILD A TRACKING 
DATABASE!. j -----------
I'VE BEEN A5KEDTO 
FACILITATE THIS MEETING. 
I ALONE WILL DETERMINE 
WHO CAN SPEAK.
I'D LIKE TO BEGIN 
WITH A RAW DISPLAY 
OF MY POWER. YOU 
MAY NOT SPEAK.
HEY, WALLY...
DID YOU EVER 
HEAR OF A THING 
CALLED EXERCISE?WE LIKE 
DATABASES.
WE CAN PUT rr 
ON THE
NETUORK.'T''"?
WE ALWAYS BUILD A
nwgwfwUlHN
YOU HAVEN'T HEARD WHAT 
THE PROBLEM IS YET; 
HOW CAN YOU RECOMMEND 
BUILDING A DATABASE 
TO SOLVE ITT?
I THINK YOU'LL AGR.EE THAT 
THIS MEETING WENT 
SMOOTHLY
WITH ME AScC~-\ 5^) 
FACILITATOR. V-O') W&w
THE PROBLEM 
IS THAT WE THAT COULD 
HAVE POOR BE THE 
PROCESSES. SLOGAN ON
, OUR MUGS!
LET'S HAVE A MOMENT 
OF SILENCE TO HONOR 
ME FOR MY BRILLIANT 
WORK DESPITE BEING 
SURROUNDED BY 
k DOLTS.
THE BREAKTHROUGH 
WAS WHEN I REALIZED 
X WAS THE ONLY ONE 
HERE WITH ANYTHING 
- A VALUABLE TO SAY.
AND WELL NEED 
COFFEE MUGS 
FOR THE PROTECT 
TEAM. (-----'
Caleander.DiadvvD 
ll l Calen dr.DdiCv
sos1L 41btsMtUbwUmtp UgIk. c 
tUbwUmtp hkt1.w.tUbw.hmtp 
gs12.tWIwUgtp .wtUcUqqUc 
u1.tUbwUgtp zrUts mh41sq.c
sodlediC1L4idabt
Ut5m wbt hVs Mbos19
Uwu kh.10 r2 r.m 
tb m4swy . kbt bW 
tSq2 t1.MVUwu ybzw 
1s4b1tm bw 2hMr.w.wm 
M.q4.Uuw mt.NN000
 U5q mb11L 5 
Lbh10 Lbhwu 
q.w Mbhkyw5t 6 
xbUw hmp nf 
IS. 4s.1000F7
Dt m22qm tr.t .w hwMbq  
qbwkL rUur 4s1Mswt.us 
bN trsq mhNNs1 N1bqp 
mr.kk0 Mh2 m.Lp 2.MV9
u1bhwy 41b2ksqm0
5 zskkp trs 
4.4s1 
qbos4rSq 
WI trs 2h9
Mr.w.w 
M.q4.Uuwc
bws k.574bUwtp q1 1btrc 
NUskyc Lbhq24S. M.2 .h mt2 
M.w 1.Ukc .kk Lbh z.wtp 
2ht zs 2hMr.w.w qbos9
qswt M.wwbt 22 4swUsyf
4.tm 1s.MrUwu bht tb 4sb94ks zrb r.os wsos1 2ssw 
4s.Mrsy bht tb 2sNb1s0 rs5m, 
sq4bzs1Uwu trs Nb1qs1kL x 
4bzs1ksmm0 .z trsL ,< 
7Hbogc rUq Nb1UtU)
MUw mpgIkc 
hM Uh2W 
UkqIuUzwww5
rsUk0
h MkVz9 
0hw 52htq.L2sc 
xhmtq.L2sc 
.w sUurtc 
Ls.1 1sUMrW
q10 zbkNsp Uzbwys1 UN 
U Mb hh4 t.kV JI Lbh .2bht 
trs hwhmh.kkL rUur whq9
2s1 bN 1.MUmt mt.NNs1m 
trs 2hMr.w.w M.q4.Uuw 
m2sqm tb r.os .tt1.Mtsy000
Dwbp 2sM.hms Lbh141s -1 
qUms Um khyUM1bhmf zs I 
4bwt r. os .wL 1.MUmt 
mt.NNs1mf trsL51s .kkbw 
ks.osp Mks.1Uwu trsU1 r~ 
>------- ------, w.qsm f F
2ht 4.t 2hMr.w.w kUosm 
Uw trs 1s.k zb1kyf .wy 
trs N.Mt Ump Lbh M.wwbt 
zUw . u0b040 41Uq.1L Uw 
kbhUmU.w. zUtrbht trs
mh44b1tm0 K______^
bN trs \
w.-Umf S N
zrLT 2sM.hms 1.t 
2hMr.w.w ybsmw5t 
r.os . 2Uubtsy 2bws Sw 
rUm 2byLf rs ysm4Umsm 
Uwtbks1.wMs Sw .wL 
uhUmsp .wy zUkk wbt 
tbks1.ts Ut Uw rUm 
M.q4.Uuw f
q10 zbkNsp DDE 2ssw m.Uy 
tr.t 2hMr.w.w Mbhkyw5t 
r.os 2s.tsw u1.qq Uw 
kbhUmU.w. zUtrbht trs 
rsk4 bN y.oUy 4hV2000
4.t zswt tb sk.2b1.ts 
kswutrm wbt tb ust 
4rbtbu1.4rsy zttr yhVs0 
rs Vwbzm tr.t y.oUy 
4hmrsm . kbt bN 2ht9
tbwm PSttr trs wsz Lb1V 
^ qsyU. M.2.kp rearf
zL.ttB 
Lbh 
2hmLT
R wsUtrs10 
4U4 u1.qq0 
rs qUurt.g 
zskk r.os 
M.q4.Uuws1 
Uw 2skuUhq0 F
I... I 
4Sywt 
Vwbz 
tr.t0
y k2SNk MC6m0Vx9 0kN 
FSx mVN x0Vx7 zpxkzfHJgkq 
NxVIIkUw K xp qUh-V26c
I zs.1Uwu I Um tr.t zr.t 
I. rbb4Tx, Lbh51s m.Lc 
rpl/-r=^_J Uwup q10  
V { 1s4 2h1s J J
kst qs tskk Lbh zr.t 
tr.t rbb4m .2bhtp bV.LT 
Utm .2bht trUwum usttUwu
mb 2.4 Uw trUm \___
Mbhwt1Ltr.t / 7
. zrUts .wukb (______A
q.ks Um .N1.U4 tJ K x 
tb mrbz rUm
N.Mmf
.wy tr.t5m zrL zs w2s4 
4.tf zrb skms 1s.Mrsm bht 
tb trs oUMtUqm bN .NNU1q.9
tUos .MtUbw ? zrs1s skms 
Um trs Lbhwup MbwMs1wsy 
mVUwrs.y mh44bmsy JI ubT
U uhsmm zrL .q U wbt 
W wsos1 mh141UmsCp
trbhurt .2sT ttm 
.2bhtUt .2sxmwtUtT 
2sNb1s000 \ ^
4.t 2hMr.w.w Um trs 
bwkL q.xb1 M.wyUy.ts 
tb 1s.Mr bht tb 
trs Nb1ubttsw \ ^ 
mVUwrs.yp tb S 
trs Nb1ubttsw S 
/2Uubtp tb trs  
Nb1ubttsw I  
xszc2.Uts1 U
4.t MbwwsMtm zUtr * 
trsms NbkVmp rs Vwbzm 
rbz trsL trUwVp rs 
m4s.Vm trsU1 k.wc / 
^ uh.usf U---------x
Lbh mssp q10 1s4mtsxwp 
rxr.t Lbh 4sb4ks Uw trs 
h2s1.k qsyU. r.os 
qUmmsy Um trs UwMk3c 
, mUoswsm bN trUm , 
. M.q4.Uuw000 x
zr.t 7 >------------
k.wuh.us Mb4s
Um tr.tT x rsmNkhswt0
\ ak19 mis
i mk
* bolTo boffo him
HO0&I? FILM fbeXBgV&i&}&S ONCLAI2 OM THE OONCePT
ON) THE N a.03 SICE..:x wo LNee BTTE My PNSeKWAIl^
E Mail jmamn g>iseneiI Mail iituninI

---------------------------------------------------

... AMD OO
Alum wm ... i
18MEYRA Y8N8v
e8NY.eP 
.Y8.P i.P 
NtRAYs bbb u .r 
EEs Eg 
..h rt,R5
WE Sri COLD NEVER 
HAVE MET 
EACH OTHER..,
HOTHINfci i2MM 3 
rcrzf O8 RHV -DLVv
i.s .N8 pR ?AnR, 
Y8N8 .s sY2P M.s8 
p Eg Mi YEEK? 
iY.s 2g PCR^gPEeh 
g2,DP sY.s i8 
: .K8 sR5(,8sY8N?
Y8M8r,
i2MM hEU CEi8 
i2sY r8,
28 2 .PK REE 
s 18 
rh 1N2D8?
hEENv .U,s, 
HESWE
2P .MN8.Dh PEAd!
U)8 JUPs N8C8i8D 
VEEND gNEr 
i-ARAtflS..'
PO YOO HAVE -the 
ODORALE s M8.V8 
8V8NhsY2,^ O8YR,?:
VJE HAVE 
NO REASON To STAY 
ANY LONGER. LET LS 
v LEAVE THIS PLACE !!1 WAS 
LOOKlWti 
fORYOO, 
PARIS'
AND FCLIOW 
hcEN Y8.Ns?iY.s .N8 hu 
P.ft,AR, pris?
abrii.h sfmns (.tnafl thi author at: JAES*l?t?@n"4L'/sir'/ -or.jp
ACOHANTOSAKIRA HASEGAWA9 TEMm 
3T3ffiS
8e2PED8 18WHAT OF THE FAITH AND FIRE 
WITHIN US... "
-THOMAS HARDY," MEN WHO HARCH AWAYD.,28M YAUGER
y H AT fy/fYOU'RE RU?'
ry-------7/ ! Gettins by RoI // TartnNews
[VHDuS V our nDvwV_
OiA^cA m C^cJCj (AAt\ L\.cA. 
0aqo58Y BE65aw(w6|ElE55ao*8t aiv55
2 cK he. i e. PtKAohaA. tos
L.IAA.C.K tt.vw.ekHAVE TO STOP 
THE CLOCK 
BEFORE IT'S 
TOO LATE... J
ML/5 T HAVE Hi 
FAITH. PLAEA 
S00, I HAVE / 
\ FAITH... J
UO.CA
MUST H/W" 
FAITH. STOP..
(IISTER BOFFOMISTER BOFFOby JV rDrRAnby JV rDrRAn
TUB WaeLP AMP THE 
WAV IT VttoUM? BIF gALgOA HAP ACgUJJLAP WOti E
WAlTcJfJTlLX a&T 
SAC TO THE SHIP IT KEEPS 0/TTM& CUT; 
XCAN'T HEAS2 / 
A THIN.
M/ CeCCEAU 
THES WAW0TTKI O PHYSICS AMO rri EELATIonSHiP
T0 . / cAoM!fioNi r /
N0TANjuMDiPEtm-p - 
COINCl PENCE AWAPP
gpffa Txo-hE:aH OaYi
LISTER BOFFOMISTER BOFFOby Joe Martinby Joe Martin
CELEV li TWENT/FIVE, THOLfeANP Clasifed .. o
MV pair evsj Ast: anbak cotttvse: cheese -1SGW X PUSHED THE EUZZE / y 
MISTAKE ' /oms? mcF1TEU, WHEiJ toJI? LIFE'S'TWKiMii ft>T Ai WELL A  O/P 
ItoPEl?
vtozr AMSWEI2 TO <5UIZ sH0/v 
QOETIOW,
I> the mcom mape of
6I?EEW OHES7'
.wisenei.nei users boflo boflb.htmE Mail jmamn<uiscnei nei

---------------------------------------------------

CLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSONCLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSONCLOSE TO HOME ruLv ngSLpt1sv
\ SEA FOODIMIDWAY 
airlin\ "TODAY'S SPECIAL-. S0BBW6 FOR iOBSTBRSf CATCH ONE AUP GET THAT LOBSTER FOR HALF PRICE* 2 per )
UNITED
Allumni
UslbaweaUgU
The comics section is the only section I read 
I wouldn't read this section even if my life depended on it 
I like to make oragaml boulders out of the comics 
I'd rather be eating spam and turkey alfredo ala highlander
w\\c make*' -o^xc t0
CMERGENC 
q.mVm p
SNORKELy \
"Theres no need for concern, folks! 
This is only a precaution!"
"Well, lefs see. He's positive for hay fever, 
negative for mildew, positive for poison ivy, 
positive for bee stings, positive for poison sumac. 
Lets see how he does with the fire ants."
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSONCLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSONCLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSON
( YES/ YES/ 
*AUNT SALLY 
AMD , UNCLE J/Mf
Here's are some comics I would like to read in THE TARTAN:
Drop this in Campus Mail to: Gabrien Sgmons
Tartan Art Editor 
Boh 17
----------------------------- rjo*
Having lost their list of who each wedding gift 
was from, newlyweds Todd and Lori Dretmer 
enlisted the help of a psychic.
Chuck's fascination with macrame was 
beginning to annoy Coach Paparella.
"Believe it or not, this particular 
tooth-extracting device was designed 
by a guy who makes corkscrews.
Ufe [HW6
GuoeniiNG
UroS T7 lrT60y 
arAS pfrRSo v MOO? J
WE. ST H*vE TO St PATIENT. 
TH-eftt'S PLENTY op WATtRSO 
WE. CAM LIVE OFF OF TI+AT. TU5T 
TR.Y NOT to THtWK ASoUT 
FOOP. WE Pon't NEEP poop. 
we'll. be fine without Foop
tTUST KEEP FOOP OFF of
J'ouR MINI? AlOP EdiooS 8E OK/rYl
f Don't Worry, frep. X HKvE \ 
A oFN9SDJ 2Kwg SomEonE q5atGo)SiIo RS S..P5u 5.PWC 
ao h0iG6)A ve >6fo TRi> 
h.P0ofj 5oWhR 4u >.u 
c-vg> . 5vcoS S.reoG
g> pT N.1 g>Mev S
#41 i, 1996 Nicholas Cascialu, Jr.
tOOTREALLY.You've &ot youx happY 
FACE ON] THAT^ the 
V -SPlfUTV y
XF VJE'ftE. STII-L 
h ERE. ON THURSPAY, 
X'M GOINGTO KILL 
^ Hlfn ANP EAT HIIA\
reAcv A gutyds
v }zS3zg 

rr> 
hp LA.
75ls sK0VE :@77K4!?5E@II 5!?$o.4i<. btiee^et1 WTHE /v-PTEe-uFe sy ^ ~~~
foj\)(lgK) Cftf!jo.ie + l. l*ns. (Yg'n^ BIM A AU-------------------------------------------------------r\ STINGI?, LAlfi-PIg
2mO2g1. On.bL2 np1cyp.g9
IaJAs/TP Tfr 'A A uJee: CHAT 
AFoiIE E U0&12-T C&ST )
F I P~es oF WELL... ,
.UNciC
AuV.KfEu)!
Y So 
let? oTT&fJ
tp
 __________.______________ f^-*- , C-MU , II ______
OH? J, (Ms f^ireu AyT) 6(Zs=DV ? \Lw5y2TEPvg CrFB R
9,mW/2 HftPPSJED Is) ^DiMFSTgiyLi? YoU^/NAHO 'fonfl. c^V(JJ>JT\ J wwA
I*.. / l!y Fiaa ik)
\h\/ s/eT&UT  WE|2^fy l( UJlP-TH a
VA>ts!
,huOcP wrlx
WAIT A SFc 
AuPileu),, '

---------------------------------------------------

c.l1u Fzt vnn1u HFDIVERSIONS
gu gmbCmPt imbPudMu Tull.P RPMubnMC7t AMCCn41bdt AuPPn7lmPMmHH Tmb6 HFF3
UmP6ubn uP6mPC 1dun mC Spring Fling 6.yuCMCM.P
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Skirts whirled and toes tapped as 
Carnegie Mellon hosted the sixth an
nual Spring Fling ballroom dance com
petition at Soldiers and Sailors Memo
rial Hall. The event, organized by the 
Ballroom Dance Club and sponsored by 
Student Senate, began at 8:30 in the 
morning and lasted until after 8 pm. 
Also included on the weekends schedbtndn MnDo4i4oonv snDond UL4o4 lonII 
A couple practices before the competition.
ule of events was a social mixer Friday 
night and a number of workshops to 
improve the dancers skills on Sunday.
Nine colleges participated in the com
petition, bringing more than 90 couples 
to the dance floor. CMU contributed the 
largest number of participants, with 37 
dance teams. Other teams 
came from Pennsylvania,
New York, Ohio, Delaware,
Maryland, and Washington,
D.C., to provide a diverse 
field of competition.
The competition was di
vided into levels based on 
ability. Newcomers, begin
ners, and intermediates took 
turns on the floor through
out the day. Each dance cat
egory at each level began 
with a preliminary round to 
eliminate part of the field.
D ancers would then wait un
til the next round of the heat, 
when the numbers being re
called were announced. If 
their number was called, 
they danced again, after which the wait
ing began again until the recalls were 
announced for the semifinals and even
tually the finals. The waiting could some
times be tedious for the competitors 
who were only dancing in a few catego
ries. Freshman Jeffrey Hemphill, CIT 
undeclared, said the waiting could get 
a little boring, but its cool to watch the
other dancers and learn stuff from them 
during the waiting periods.
The American Smooth and Interna
tional Standard competition, which in
cluded dances such as the waltz, quick
step, foxtrot, and tango, began the day. 
The event was originally scheduled from
btndn MnDo4i4oonv snDond UL4o4 lonII 
Formal attire enhanced the fluid movements of the dancers 
competition.
8:30 am to 12:30 pm but didnt conclude 
until close to 4 pm, as the competition 
fell behind schedule. This portion of the 
affair found the girls wearing long, ex
travagant dresses usually made of se
quins and chiffon. They normally com
pleted their look with upswept hair, glit
tery jewelry, and lots of make-up. In the 
beginner divisions, men typically wore
dress pants and ties, but at the interme
diate level. Tuxedos with tails were the 
standard there. CMU students fared 
well in these events carrying away rib
bons in many of the competitions and 
having representatives in the finals of 
all the categories of competition.
The second half of the day 
consisted of the International 
Latin and American Rhythm 
competition. Students danced 
the cha-cha, rumba, samba, 
and jive well into the night. 
This portion was often re
ferred to as the fun part ofthe 
competition, as dancers were 
able to let loose and specta
tors were given flashy cos
tumes and dancing to watch. 
Bryce Taylor, freshman MCS 
undeclared, contributed his 
bias to his Latin blood. But 
those lacking his ancestry 
also agreed they enjoyed 
watching and dancing the 
Latin dances. Competitors 
changed their costumes from 
the earlier, more serious dances. Girls 
changed into shorter, flamboyant dresses 
and let their hair down while their part
ners lost their ties and cummerbunds 
and changed into less formal, dark-col
ored shirts. Students enthusiasm for 
the dancing showed on the dance floor as 
they performed for the audience.
CMU students enthusiastic cheers
ktD44 0nopm.znv snDond 5Do lonII
could be heard throughout the day as they 
yelled out the number of a couple on the 
dance floor or simply burst out with a go 
CMU cheer. The largest part of the audi
ence was composed of dancers between 
dances, but it also included a sprinkling of 
student spectators and relatives of the 
competitors. Judging from the dancers 
passion and devotion for the competition, 
this years Spring Fling was a success. 
Members of CMUs Ballroom Dance Club 
were able to test their skills among them
selves and with students from other 
schools, while watching great dancing 
and meeting many new people.
Rock n Roll Hall of Fame fails to include all musical luduPn
By JUSTIN KLEMMER
Special to the Tartan
Sunday, March 3rd brought students 
to the Rock n Roll Hall of Fame, through 
a Residence-Life-and-Pittsburgh-Horizons sponsored trip to Cleveland, 
Ohio.With a little transportation diffi
culty, the bus arrived about 1-1/2 hours 
k past the 1 pm scheduled arrival time. 
The limited amount of visiting time to 
the hall (which closed at 5:30 pm) hardly 
seemed to make a difference.
[ For someone looking for a deeper un1 derstanding of the roots and rhythms of 
I rock and roll, this place was nothing 
I short of pitiful. Now, one might argue 
1 that for a medium which forms a taste| less triumvirate with such dirty players 
as sex and drugs, a deep, cultural, intel| lectual, artistic analysis is a rather 
oxymoronic expectation. Suffice it to 
' say that for the true student and disciple 
of rock and roll, there is much more style 
and grace to it than has ever been broad
cast by frequency or amplitude modula
tion (or Music Television, for that mat
ter).
Without going into too much detail or 
listing the countless shortcomings of 
Clevelands new crown jewel, I will try 
to give my own analysis of what was so 
wrong about this place. The 80s in its 
entirety was practically left out, with 
only vague traces here and there of its 
existence. Where were Van Halen, The 
Police, Peter Gabriel, (fill in your favor
ite)? Over the main speaker system 
could be heard Don Henleys Boys of
Summer, which was probably my big
gest experience of the 80s during the 
entire three hours in the building. 
Granted, we did not 
have a lot of time, 
but there was so 
much that just 
seemed to have 
been left out.
Some major 
genres of rock 
were missing 
large pieces of 
their pie. In psy
chedelic rock I saw 
no mention of 
Santana (a per
sonal favorite) 
and next to noth
ing on the recently 
disbanded Grate
ful Dead. Where 
was the progres
sive rock? Nothing 
on Rush, Yes, Gen
esis the list goes 
on. While the bot
tom floor had dis
plays for people like 
Jimi Hendrix and 
Paul Simon, they 
left out such no
tables as Eric 
Clapton. For a man who used to be God 
in London, he was reduced to peasant 
status in Cleveland. Even the folk rock 
section showed next to nothing on art
ists like Joni Mitchell and Joan Baez, let 
alone the larger names like CSNY (al
though Neil Young was featured here 
and there).
From a design perspective, the Hall of
Fame seemedto posess a rather uncouth 
understanding ofthe entire idea of sound 
itself. Being a multimedia format, there 
was very poor sound-shielding between 
many of the displays and exhibits that 
made attending to and even hearing
what was happening in your proximity 
often extremely frustrating and down
right obnoxious. Most of the video pre
sentations, while 
at times decent, 
reeked of MTVstyle editing, with 
an attention span 
that rarely lasted 
longer than a sec
ond or two. It was 
nearly impossible 
to get past the sur
face of anything in 
the entire place. I 
might expect this 
from watching 
MTV, but I desired 
a bit more depth 
from a place that 
was built to repre
sent a piece of mu
sical history.
Of the actual 
pieces of interest, 
which were few in
deed, the most ex
citing was Janis 
Joplins Porsche 
with a groovy psy
chedelic paint job. 
As a friend pointed 
out, you could just 
imagine yourself riding along with the 
Pearl herself, probably along a California 
highway smoking a nice ... um ... ciga
rette.
For some playful irony (and as an 
attractive friend prescribed that I see), a
couple of John Lennons report cards from 
1955 served as a humorous reminder of 
the absurdity of putting any value into 
ones assessment from teachers (you CMU 
types, read that last sentence again). 
Other niceties included a very touching 
and human bit of Pink Floyd history from 
Roger Waters, which was written on the 
back of an otherwise cheeseball mock-up 
of The Wall. He basically explained the 
progression of and his own frustration 
with and addiction to the success of Pink 
Floyd  capping it off with a note that 
The Wall represented his metaphor for 
the decisions that stand between truth 
and He (not his exact words but this writers 
interpretation). There were certainly 
other artifacts of interest in the Hall of 
Fame. I cantforget Jimmy Pages Dragon 
Pants; though the white pair on display 
was not as nice as the black pair he also 
owned. However, these particular pieces 
tickled my fancy.
Overall, the Hall of Fame was a pretty 
poor showing for rock and roll, although 
one wonders whether or not an art form 
that springs from the evil hearts of men 
and women could possibly ever be cap
tured in the light of day of a Hall of Fame. 
For such dark and satanically inspired 
ritual of experimentation and social af
front that real rock and roll truly symbol
izes, it is no wonder that the Warholinspired art-deco style of this 90s capital 
venture failed to truly capture much rock 
or roll (let alone the synthesis of the two). 
While the establishment might try to 
convince you that they are really showing 
it to you in Cleveland, this writer wont.
pO ar%t
T
9mDo M.D.pv snDond 5Do lonII
By ERIC J. SALZMAN
Tartan Personnel Manager
Friday night, a naked man clutched a 
toilet seat for dear life. Instead of be
ing the casualty of a few too many 
beers, this man was part of Stagna
tion, an acrylic painting by Chris 
Palmer. Along with Sean McBride and 
Brian Cicco, Palmer was one of three 
senior art majors whose work was on 
display last week at the Forbes Gal
lery. Friday night, from 7 to 9 in the 
evening, was the weekly. reception 
which many daring souls braved the 
cold in order to attend. As is the usual 
for Friday night receptions at the 
Forbes Gallery, the artists displaying 
their work supplied food and bever
ages for the visitors.
Theyre responsible for the whole 
show; the reception, everything, said 
gallery co-director Anne Lopez. She 
explained that the gallery is not part 
of CFA, so the money to operate it 
comes from the student activities fee 
and membership fees. The art depart
ment helps us out, Lopez said. Over 
the summer, they refinished the floor.
Regardless of whatever help they get,
the senior art majors, who are the only 
ones with shows during the spring se
mester, handle everything down to the 
chocolate cake. Palmers mother made
ynp4d lt.e.dz4DIv snDond UL4o4 Vzto4D 
Brian Cicco juggles machetes at the Forbes 
Gallery reception.
the cake, but he was doing the boasting. 
If anyone wants the recipe, I carry it in 
my pocket, he said. One of his less 
edible works was a video in which Palmer
throws himself down a flight of stairs. 
You can take it as a metaphor for mak
ing the same mistakes. You can only 
find the best way to fall down the stairs, 
Palmer said. Although he admitted to 
hopes of some day getting paid, Palmer 
refuses to take his work too seriously. I 
know how to fall down steps really well 
now, he said.
Im a juggler by trade, said Cicco, who 
juggled machetes during the Friday night 
reception. Through his juggling, Cicco 
has learned that others enjoy watching 
performers risk their lives. One of his 
videos showed how much more people 
enjoy watching someone juggle flaming 
torches than plain old clubs.
In the center of the gallery floor were 
his untitled ceramic and oil sculptures of 
circus performers. From the ceiling hung 
two trapeze, one with a person sitting and 
the other barren. On the floor below the 
empty trapeze was the fallen trapeze art
ist and other circus performers gathered 
around to watch. The exhibit again illus
trated how people enjoy watching others 
risk their lives.
Although he has never sold his work 
through a show, Cicco said that techni
cally everything [in the gallery] is for
sale. He explained that the gallery gets a 
commission for any sales, but that the 
price has to be negotiated with the artist. 
Potential art collectors beware! These may 
be students, but they have serious prices, 
and for that matter, serious work, despite 
what Shawn McBride says.
McBride described his exhibit as big
ynp4d lt.e.dz4DIv snDond UL4o4 Vzto4D 
Sean McBrides his interactive exhibit as big 
mechanical ugly things."
mechanical ugly things, those two paint
ings, some digital interactive multime
dia, and some videos. The videos, McBride 
said, are what brought these three artists 
together.
Theyre arranged in groups of two or
three, Lopez said. But it is up to the 
artists as to who is in their group. McBride 
said that he began working with Cicco 
and Palmer a few years ago because of 
their video projects. Thats our common 
theme, he said.
My theme would be... it definitely has 
a dark side ... Im asking everybody why 
they keep hurting themselves, 
McBride said.
One way or another, all three 
artists incorporated self-in
flicted pain into their works, 
and people crammed into the 
gallery to see it. See what I 
mean about people laughing at 
others people pain? Cicco said 
after a room full of people 
watched Palmer throw himself 
down a flight of stairs on video.
The receptions are held every 
Friday night this semester. 
There is always free food and 
artists to talk to. Everyone 
should come, Lopez said. First time gal
lery visitors are likely to be pleasantly 
surprised with an entertaining, free, and 
edible Friday night extravaganza. Next 
week, Anne Castle and Scott Morris will 
have their work on display.
Forbes Gallery enhances cultural venues with student 9.b

---------------------------------------------------

Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Saturday
Congratulations 
to the Andrew Carnegie Society 
Scholars, Class of 1997
David Ambrose 
Vittorio D. Bernardino 
Bradley W. Dietrich 
Brendan H. Dunham 
Glenn Durfee 
Andrew J. Flores 
Dominick R. Frollini 
Jenny Helene Good 
Diane Renee Hairston 
Thomas B. Humensky 
Peter Hylenski 
Jason Jancaitis 
Susan Klein 
Adam Klivans 
Kenneth J. Kraemer 
David N. Lenchus 
Frank Ligons
Robert E. Long 
Regis Paul Marcelin 
Steven Meyers 
Andrew Y. Ng 
Nazim Nice 
Anthony Paul 
Ronald G. Polcawich Jr. 
Stephanie L. Postal 
Matthew J. Solitro 
Russell Steele 
Todd Michael Stevenson 
Joseph R. Upton 
Maryfrancis Velez-Isip 
Michelle Vollmar 
Heather L. Winkle 
Joshua A. Wisch 
Patricia C. Yang
Scholar candidates are nominated by their deans and/or department heads in the 
second semester of their junior year and upon nomination are named ACS Scholars. 
The ACS Scholars represent each undergraduate college, the Departments of Industrial 
Management and Drama and the School of Computer Science. The Society, through 
the ACS Scholars Program, is proud to recognize Carnegie Mellons top students for 
their accomplishments during the undergraduate years. The ACS Scholars, Class of 
1997 will be recognized at the Andrew Carnegie Societys Annual Meeting on 
Saturday, April 27, 1996. Again, congratulations to all of you!
A mericans are living longer than ever. So it's quite JJL possible you'II spend 20 or 30 years or more in 
retirement. Can you afford it? Unless youre indepen
dently wealthy, chances are you'll need more than 
your pension and Social Security to support the kind 
of lifestyle youll want.
How can you help ensure that you ll be in good 
financial shape? Sign up for TIAA-CREF SRAs  
tax-deferred annuities available only to people in edu
cation and research.
SRAs are easy. No pain, no sweat.
The best way to build strength  physical or fiscal 
 is to start at a level that's comfortable and add to 
your regimen as you go along.
With TIAA-CREF SRAs, you conveniently con
tribute through your employers payroll system. You
can start with a modest amount and increase your 
contribution as your salary grows.
The important thing is to start now. Delaying for 
even a year or two can have a big impact on the 
amount of income you'll have when you retire.
TIAA-CREF:
Your fiscal fitness program.
TIAA-CREF is the nations largest retirement 
system, managing over SI50 billion in assets for more 
than 1.7 million people. We offer a wide range of 
SRA allocation choices, long-term investment exper
tise, and remarkably low expenses.1
Call 1 800 842-2776 for an SRA Enrollment 
Kit or our interactive SRA Enrollment Software.
Or visit us on the Internet at gopher://tiaa-cref.org, 
or http://www.tiaa-cref.org.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.
I ;\n,ilyt\ 1995: l.ippcr Analytical Services. Inc.. tipp 
lion, including charges and expenses, call I H00 8--1 
invesi or send money. TIAA-CRKF Individual & Inst
'An,i/Wfiw/ /Ai/./. 1995 (Quarterly ),
'33. extension 5509. l'ora prospectus, 
luminal Services. Inc.. distributes CRll' certifie;
Rappgu o Cubvcgv
N.1 Can Count on
Ppm .cu
dhoose a dentist you can count on for life. Call the office of Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D. Youll 
rfieet a dentist who combines the latest in dental technology with something that cant be measured 
by a test or a machinea dedication to treating you as a human being, not just a set of teeth.
BOARD CERTIFIED-PAIN MANAGEMENT
Feliow-Acadeniy of General Dentistry 
Diplomate-American Academy of Pain Management 
Master-Academy of General Dentistry 
Fellow-International College of Craniomandibular Orthopedics 
Fellow-Academy of Dentistry International 
Fellow-Pierre Fauchard Academy
HfchoolS.Hlnlck.SX.
MICHAEL S. MELNICK
D.M.D., M.A.G.D.
AND ASSOCIATES
A Team of Independent Practitioners 
The Park Plaza Suite 207 
128 North Craig Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412) 688-9000 OR (412) 687-8888 A Carnegie Mellon Graduate with a Tradition of Excellence 
(800) 732-7645
Mastercard, Visa. Discover. Novus, American Express Accepted. Interest-free payment plans available.
GENERAL DENTISTRY
 T.M.J. (Temporomandibular Joint) Disorders 
 Porcelain and Gold Crowns and Bridges 
 Orthodontics for Adults and Children 
 Endodontic (Root Canal) Treatment 
 Periodontal (Gum) Therapy 
 I.V. Sedation/Anesthesia 
 Cosmetic Dentistry 
 Pediatric Dentistry 
 Oral Surgery
 An Outpatient Comprehensive 
Multidisciplinary Pain Treatment Center 
Accredited by the American Academy of 
Pain Management
 Highest Standards for Infection Control 
& SterilizationOffice Inspected Thru 
Voluntary OSHA Compliance Program
 Nitrous Oxide Sedation
 I.V. Conscious Sedation Under Personal 
Supervision of a Hospital Trained 
Anesthesiologist
 Medical StaffShadyside Hospital
Day and Evening Hours by Appointment
 Security Building  Indoor Valet
 Most Insurance Plans Accepted
UL4o4 ug y4dnp  S,,H 0tcLn.i la 0cidtca
ByEECKYCECKA .OWSCRyyTV MIC ZCICH
P.S. Guidebooks will be mailed to families, faculty and administrative 
staff and should arrive by mid-March.
EXERCISE REGULARLY AND YOU 
COULD LIVE LONGER. 
INVEST REGULARLY SO YOU 
CAN AFFORD TO.
The 1996 Commencement Guidebook has complete information 
on commencement weekend activities, including:
AH degree candidates should pick up a commencement guidebook from 
their department diploma coordinator beginning the week of March 4.
Call Special Events at x8-5052 with commencement questions.
 Schedule of eventshow to RSVP and get tickets
 Caps and gownshow to order and where and when to pick up
 Commencement announcementshow to order 
Includes a coupon for 5 free general announcements/
 Who to see about whathow to find good answers to your questions

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 March 1996L9
Adam Sandler disappoints fan
By JAY MIOLLA
Assistant Diversions Editor
It has been a real long time 
since Adam Sandler released 
his debut CD They're All Gonna 
Laugh at You. I know that I 
have been counting the days 
until this new release. The CD 
is entitled What the Hell Hap
penedtoMe?__________________
Who: Adam Sandler 
What: What the Hell 
Happened to Me? 
Label: Warner Bros.
It features Adam Sandler, of 
course, and a few of his' Satur
day Night Live pals. And for 
those who know his last CD 
very well, youll probably be a 
little surprised by his new one.
The new CD contains no re
visited characters from his first 
CD. If youre expecting tollbooth 
Willie, or perhaps the Bafoon, 
you may be disappointed. He 
replaces the always funny 
bafoon with the excited 
southerner (which is about as 
funny as Bob Saget). The ex
cited southerner has five cuts
on the album, and none of them 
really struck my fancy.
Of course, the album also fea
tures Adam Sandlers original 
songs that will make anyone pee 
their pants. It contains The 
Chanukah Song, which got a lot 
of air play around the holiday 
season. The album also has a 
reggae song called Ode To My
S,,x WnDd.D MD4pa F.c4Dzp Kdc8 
Car. The chorus to the song is, 
piece of shit car, Ive got a piece 
of shit car. It just might be one of 
those things you dont need to 
hear, but it is hilarious. He also 
does a song called Mr. Bake-O, 
which insinuates the use of mari
juana, but also happens to be
very funny.
The one thing that I noticed 
about this album is that there 
is a lot of reference to the use of 
marijuana, alcohol, and vari
ous other drugs. As a matter of 
fact, I would be willing to bet 
that a lot of these skits were 
spawned after indulging in 
drugs because some of them 
are so far out there. I am 
wondering how someone 
comes up with the idea for a 
talking goat, or a man who 
wanders the streets playing 
a tape and asking people 
whether it is people having 
sex or people weight lifting. 
He is definitely one sick indi
vidual.
As a whole I enjoyed the 
CD, but I felt as though he 
relied way to much on curs
ing and vulgar subject mat
ter. I happen to find that 
funny, but Im sure that this 
wouldnt be a good one to play 
while sitting with your family. 
I dont think that this album is 
as good as the first disc, but it 
has its moments and would be 
worth picking up if youre a 
hard core Adam Sandler fan.
Video games promote addiction
Ragmop cleans up comic book market
COMIC BOOK 
CHRONICLES
by Jason Andracki
Although most think of New 
York City when they think about 
the comic book industry, with the 
boom in independent publishing, 
;he Big Apple is no longer the hub 
if activity. Its not necessary to 
live in a major city anymore to 
have your comic on the shelves. 
Places previously unthought of 
for comic books like Columbus, 
Ohio (Jeff SmithsSo/ie), and even 
Pittsburgh CDon Simpson's Bi
zarre Heroes and Innocent By
stander by Gary Sassaman) now 
&re producing comics.
One area that seems to be a hot 
bed for self-publishing is the 
Toronto, Ontario area. After all, 
the idea started in nearby 
Kitchener in 1977 with Dave 
Sims Cerebus. Now Toronto 
boasts the talents of MOak and 
his wonderful fantasy comic 
Thieves and Kings and Rob 
Waltons indescribable Ragmop.
Although Ragmop has been 
around since June 1995, I only 
picked up the first issue a few 
weeks back. Apparently it was 
lost in the shuffle of the many 
Gther books springing up. Ragmop 
eventually caught my eye because
I had a few extra dollars in my 
pocket and I recognized Rob 
Walton as the creator/writer of 
Skade, which is presently ap
pearing in Charles Vesss Book of 
Ballads and Sagas (highly rec
ommended). It also had a really 
colorful, eyecatching wrap around 
cover. To sum up my thoughts on 
[he series in one sentence: I read 
fhe first issue, and bought the 
pext four issues as soon as I went 
|)ack to the comic shop.
; Like I said earlier, Ragmop is 
indescribable. This book does not 
fit into any neat and tidy niche 
like superhero, science fiction, or 
humor, because it features as
pects of all of these and even 
piore genres. I guess if forced to
categorize Ragmop, Id call it sat
ire. While some self-publishers 
tend to be esoteric like Peter 
Bagge {Hate), Walton makes his 
book very accessible.
Nothing is safe from the sar
casm of Waltons pen and pencil, 
not the Catholic Church, the 
United States, or misogynistic 
males. While making his readers 
laugh at the hy
pocrisy of these 
organizations he 
does make some 
important state
ments. Walton 
bravely mocks 
the popularity of 
the current bad 
girl trend in 
comics both with 
his character 
Thrill Kitten and 
his periodic 
backup shorts 
from Tuchis, a 
mens maga
zine whose name 
bears a striking resemblance to 
premier bad girl artist Bill 
Tucci. While Walton may be mak
ing enemies with his satire, hes 
finding a fan in me.
Aside from being a talented 
writer, Walton showed that he is 
an accomplished artist as well. 
His work is so versatile that at 
times it seems like there are dif
ferent artists because there are 
so many different styles within 
one issue; as the scene changes, 
so does the style of the artwork. 
At times, the black and white art 
is very simple, like that of a comic 
strip, while other times its as 
lush as a color comic book. This
fpETrA
constantly changing style may 
bother some, but I find it helps 
the flow of the story.
Ragmop is entirely Rob 
Waltons project but he has some 
help from others to make it a 
success. For issue number four, 
Mike Mignola provides an inter
esting Silver-Age style cover that 
probably increased sales on that 
issue. In a few of 
the five issues 
there have been 
back-up stories, a 
recurring one be
ing Adam Smith: 
Against Capital
ism by Brad 
Walton (possibly 
a relation?). The 
first installment 
was hilarious, but 
other chapters 
have been a drier 
biography of the 
famous economist.
Ragmop may 
not be the next big thing, with 
prices skyrocketing for back is
sues, but it is one of the most 
entertaining self-published com
ics on the market. It appeals to 
fans of The Simpsons, Mystery 
Science Theater 3000, Warner 
Brothers cartoons, and sci-fi com
ics. Walton manages to weave a 
very interesting story while not 
holding back on the humor few 
satirical works achieve.
Jason Andracki is a junior pro
fessional writing major. Ragmop, 
along with ice hockey, Neil Young, 
and Strange Brew, makes being 
Canadian inherently cool.
FRIDAY NIGHT DOOM
by Dizzy Murphy
Marvel Super Heroes is a new 
game you may have noticed in 
our arcade. Made by Capcom, the 
people who designed Street 
Fighter, it features several Mar
vel characters all fighting un
heard-of villains in order to save 
Earth from the mighty (and to
tally cheap) Thanos.
Among the characters, there 
are many fan favorites like Cap
tain America, Spider-Man, and 
Iron Man. Several characters 
from the previous Capcom X-men 
game make appearances again, 
like Wolverine.
The fighting style is a bit com
plex, but after a couple of dollars 
spent fighting the computer, 
youll learn the basic moves well. 
After that, you may try out the 
combos, which will annoy the hell 
out of your opponent. During the 
game, and depending on the hit 
you give your enemy, a gem may 
appear on the screen. Do your
best to grab it  if you know how 
to use it properly (I wont tell you 
how, go to the arcade and find 
out) it will give you a fighting 
edge in that particular match.
The game is a lot of fun and is 
normally pretty crowded; unless 
you know your moves, I suggest 
you start playing it by yourself 
and then challenging other play
ers once you know your stuff.
The second game I am review
ing is one of the most eagerly 
awaited games of last year, Wing 
Commander IV. All I can say is 
that the best keep getting better. 
Origin has come up with a game 
that makes the Star Wars movies 
look like B-rated movies in com
parison. The game is a beautiful 
masterpiece of space combat and 
live-action cinema scenes which 
will leave you spellbound.
The scenario for this game picks 
up where Wing Commander III 
left off. After the war with the 
Kilrathi ended, the Confedera
tion entered a period of peace. 
But now, relations with the 
Confed Border.Worlds have gone 
to hell and another war appears 
to be on the horizon. As Christo
pher Blair (playedby Mark Luke 
Sywalker Hamill) you must lead 
the confed forces to stop a pos
sible war. Other quality actors 
appear, such as Malcolm
3McDowell and John-Rhys Davies i 
(Sliders), as well as Todd Wilson 
(Biff in Back to the Future movies).
The game is basically a space 
flight simulator where you fly 
your ship against hordes of enemyfighters.Youhavewingmen ' 
who will do their best to cover you 0 
and your own fighter carrier, 
which you must defend. The 
sounds and graphics in the simuj 
lator section are the same from 
Wing Commander III, therefore 
veterans of the game will feel 
comfortable playingthis one. The 
only bad point is that there is no :,2 
view of the instruments in your 
cockpit (bummer).
The cinema scenes between 
missions are outstanding! You; 
wont need to go to Doherty to.  
catch a movie anymore. Youll " 
have one right at your home.: ;; 
The quality of the work done on 
this installment of WC IV is 
legendary. The live-action 
scenes are played in real stu
dios and there are many more 
than in WC III.
Overall, this game is a must . J 
buy. Advance warning: If you * 
start playing the game, say.  
good-bye to your loved ones,; .. 
homework and so-called life. It>-S 
is extremely addictive and hard 
to put down once started.
Bands bark sounds bigger than bite
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Barkmarket is the musical 
equivalent of Grape Nuts: al
ways crunchy and almost al
ways the same. Thats what 
this album consists of mainly: 
a lot of deep, crunchy songs 
that really kind of sound the 
same.
Who: Barkmarket 
What: L. Ron 
Label: American 
Recording
Dont get me wrong, I like 
Barkmarket, but as I listened 
to the album L. Ron, there 
were very few surprises. It 
starts up with a weird country-ish slide guitar riff  it 
made me wince when I first 
heard it. Then came one of 
those rare surprises  I heard 
Barkmarkets real sound. In 
came a thunderous bass line 
and very loud drums. Here 
was revealed the true crunch 
and power of Barkmarket.
Every song is rhythm-pow
ered; the bass and the drums 
are the most prominent features 
of any song on this album. The 
rhythms are very catchy, great 
material for mosh pits, you may 
even find yourself, like I did, 
nodding and grooving to the 
beat.
There are times, though, 
when I wish that the bass was a
little less prominent, a little less 
dominant, sol could hear the rest 
of the song.
The guitars almost come as a 
side note to the songs. They are 
subtle little riffs placed down in 
the background, underneath the 
crushing force of the bass. With 
some of the bass riffs, the gui
tars sound reminiscent of some 
of Soundgardens tunes on 
Badmotorfinger.
The guitars also produce a lot 
of just plain weird noises, includ
ing more feedback than you can 
shake a stick at. One song ends
Every song on this album is 
very hard-core, and they pretty 
much all rock. There are some 
parts where they start off try
ing to be slower and darker, 
but eventually they give up and 
go back to rocking.
The recording definetly could 
be better, especially if the bass 
and drums were turned down 
and the guitars were cranked 
up (and if they got a new lead 
singer  but thats a different 
qualm). These songs are not 
melodious, they are driving, 
butt-kicking, in-your-ear jams.
These songs are not melodious, 
they are driving, butt-kicking, inyour-ear jams, so if you want some
thing sweet and tender and melodi
ous, this is the wrong group. 
with the guitarist playing the 
most melodically discordant riffs 
Ive ever heard.
The vocals arent the high 
point of Barkmarkets sound. I 
really cant decipher how good 
the lyrics are, as theyre slightly 
muffled and overshadowed by 
the rest of the music. He could 
be singing about puppies and 
sweet little babies, but he prob
ably isnt. The bulk of the sing
ing sounds like the vocalist vent
ing his aggressions to music.
So, ifyou want something sweet 
and tender and melodious, this 
is the wrong group.
Of course, if youre in the 
mood to crank your stereo, 
annoy your neighbors, and 
blow your speakers while 
moshing in the comfort of your 
own home, check out 
Barkmarket.
They may not be the most 
original band or the most 
pleasing to the ear, but they 
sure are loud and groovy.
(And Do It With A Lot Of Style.)
Toyotas Affordable Sporty Fun Car.
SEE YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY. ,

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 March 1996
Pfeiffer gets Up Close and Personal
By DAN ROSENBERG
Tartan Staffwriter
At the beginning of the film Up 
Close and Personal, Sallyanne 
Atwater, a waitress and craps 
dealer from Reno, Nevada, is 
making an audition tape. Why 
should you hire me? she asks her 
potential employers. Because Im 
going to be a star.
What: Up Close and 
Personal 
Director: Jon Avnet 
Company:Touchstone
And a star is what she be
comes. Atwater (played by 
Michelle Pfeiffer) is hired at a 
strugglingMiami television sta
tion by news director Warren 
Justice (Robert Redford). Jus
tice, a veteran newsman, makes 
Sallyanne his personal assis
tant. She makes his coffee, picks 
up his laundry, and answrs 
telephones. She eventually gets 
a chance to be the stations 
weathergirl, with disastrous re
sults. She is introduced as 
Tally instead of Sally, and 
it all goes down hill from there, 
pespite her ineptitude for re
porting the weather, Justice 
observes that she eats the 
lens, and before you know it,
Sallyanne from Reno has bea result of the chemistry beside the jail are the most excitcome Tally Atwater, respected tween its stars, both of whom ing moments of the film. Pfeiffer 
co-anchor of the evening news, are well-suited for their respecis also stellar in crafting Tallys 
Under Warrens tutelage, tive roles. The film, however, is reactiontothetragedythatgreets 
Tally blooms, eventually earnreally a showcase for Pfeiffer, her when she finally makes it to
the top.
While Pfeiffer is the 
main reason to see this 
film, there are several 
other factors that make it 
worth the price of admis
sion. Stockard Channing 
and Kate Nelligan are ex
cellent in small roles as 
established newswomen. 
Writers Joan Didion and 
John Gregory Dunne have 
done an admirable job in 
balancing the Tallys offcamera romance and oncamera evolution, and di
rector Jon Avnet (Fried 
Green Tomatoes) has done 
a respectable job of put
ting the movie together. 
Even the scenes under
scored by the lovely Celine 
Dion ballad Because You 
Loved Me work to the 
movies advantage.
The movie is a little lengthy 
and contrived in some points (es
pecially in the beginning when 
the romance between Tally and 
Warren starts to bloom), and 
Redford is occasionally stiff, but 
overall the movie is worth see
ing. Grade: B+.
s4mcLpo4d. UtcomD.p
Tally Atwater (Michelle Pfieffer) looks to a veteran newsman, Warren Justice 
(Robert Redford), for guidance.
who gives a wonderful perfor
mance as Tally. Her failed at
tempt as a cheerful weather
girl is a delight, and her off-key 
performance of The Impossible 
Dream is equally endearing.
The scenes in which Tally is 
covering a prison riot from ining a prestigious anchor posi
tion in Philadelphia. Along the 
way, she falls in love with War
ren, which culminates in their 
marriage. By the films end, she 
is the weekend anchor of a na
tional newscast.
This film succeeds largely as
Indie-rock bands latest release disappoints critic
By NEIL DONNELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
The term sell-out has been 
bandied about quite liberally in 
recent years by many an independent-rock purist. Indie kids 
and fanzine journalists alike have 
been known to sound the corpo
rate whore alarm at the slight
est scent of cold hard cash.
Who: The Grifters 
What: Aint My Lookout 
Label: Sub Pop Records
Granted, when you see com
mercials featuring the sounds of 
Elastica in tandem with images 
of a zeppelin emblazoned with 
the Budweiser logo, chances are 
the song was not licensed solely 
based on the groups love of the 
product. The line between artis
tic integrity and corporate servi
tude starts to blur, however, when 
the monetary payoff isnt quite so 
obvious.
The Grifters, in fact, would 
probably like the aforementioned 
line to remain as fuzzy as pos
sible. According to the liner notes 
of their fourth full-length album 
(and first Sub Pop LP) Aint My 
fjookout, things didnt change 
that much at all [after signing to 
Sub Pop, a label that is 49- 
percentowned by Warner Broth
ers]. We still have creative con
trol and everythings all right. 
j>iot that its really a big deal 
because bands dont really catch 
f hat much shit for selling out any 
friore. Do they? Rationalization, 
Anyone?
! For the uninitiated, the Grifters 
began in 1989 as A Band Called 
Bud in Memphis, Tennessee, a 
town whose musical heritage goes 
back at least half a century. From 
the Stax-Volt label to Elvis 
Presley to Big Star, Memphis has 
been cranking out innovative 
sounds for quite some time now. 
The Grifters, for the better part 
of six years, were no exception. 
Their third full-length release and 
second on Memphis indie label
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Shangri-La, Crappin You Nega
tive, was an exploration of gritty, 
unrefined rock n roll, steeped in 
a firm ground of blues and soul, 
and was, in this critics humble 
opinion, one of the finest releases 
of 1994. They followed up this 
one with a 1995 EP, also on 
Shangri-La, entitled Eureka, 
which showed the band exercis
ing restraint with unparalleled 
skill. Eureka is the sort of record 
that reveals its beauty in slow, 
subtle ways; its true great
ness can only be reaped af
ter repeated listenings.
In contrast, the only thing 
that I can reap from re
peated listenings of Aint My 
Lookout is the realization 
that the Grifters are in the 
midst of an artistic and 
musical dive, head-first into 
the ninth circle of corporaterock hell. The rough sound 
of their earlier efforts is part 
of what made these releases 
so memorable. Of course, 
the great songwriting didnt 
hurt either.
Unfortunately, neither of these 
elements is anyhere to be found 
on Aint My Lookout. Along with 
their new Sub Pop deal, the band 
cashed in the four-track recorder
that was so crucial to their sound 
and, for the first time, recorded 
entirely in Easley Studios, which 
have been occupied by the likes of 
Pavement and Sonic Youth in re
cent months. The songs on this 
record exhibit a sugary pop sensi
bility, sometimes to an annoying 
point. Tunes like Covered With 
Flies and Parting Shot, with 
their warmed-over classic-rock 
riffs and clear, bright background 
vocals, sound in no way new.
w4mDo.pg 4I lmu U41 F.c4Dzp 
The Grlfters new release does not measure 
up to their previous work.
Pretty Notes, which features 
mandolin, no percussion, and what 
sounds like an entire choir behind 
the band, drags on for what seems 
like years. The drums on My Apol
ogy sound almost totally mecha
nized, lacking all of the resonance 
and character they exuded on ear
lier records. Radio City Suicide 
is an MTV-ready glam/prog-rock 
nightmare, with backwards gui
tar leads one minute and over
blown power chords the next. The 
Straight Time, one of the albums 
only highlights, is a noisy beast 
that almost recaptures some of 
the old magic. Almost, though, is 
the key word. It still doesnt come 
close to some of Crappin 
You Negative's lesser mo
ments.
Aint My Lookout, in the 
nicest terms, is a horrible 
disappointment. The 
Grifters seemed to only be 
improvingwith age, butthey 
took an abrupt turn and re
leased an uninspired, limp 
collection of overproduced 
songs. I would like to believe 
that the possibility of m ajorlabel-sized investment portfolios didnt lead them 
astray. I would also like to 
believe that the Grifters 
didnt write or record this album. 
Unfortunately, they did, and they 
show no signs of returning to their 
past greatness. Elastica would be 
proud.
Beast mun 
m yub2u6C mCu
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
Some plays are like prom 
dates. Some are sleazy and 
smooth and ask a little too 
much. Others are polite and 
nice, but just wantto be friends. 
Beast On the Moon, however, is 
the kind of date who will intro
duce himself to your father and 
never forget a corsage. Some 
people might like that, and oth
ers might not. Personally, I kind 
of enjoyed it.
This play, City Theatres lat
est, is a portrait of an Arme
nian couple thrust upon each 
other in a mix-up at a picture 
bride service. The husband, 
Aram Tomasian (Faran Tahir) 
is a man caught in tradition 
and civility. His young wife of 
15, Seta (Vilma Margarita 
Silva), comes from Turkish-con
trolled Armenia in search of a 
new life. As soon as she arrives, 
Aram gives his wife a hand 
mirror and an ultimatum: She 
is to continue the line of 
Tomasians, a family who had 
been decimated by the warring 
Turks when Aram was a boy. 
But she is immature and Aram 
is deluded. These fogs fall as 
the story progresses, leading to 
their eventual acceptance and 
maturity.
The story is narrated by a 
man simply called A Gentle
man (Bingo OMalley). His re
counting of the story of Aram 
and Seta drives the action e verforward until they reach the 
climax of emotion that excises 
the grief caused by the deaths 
of the two lovers parents. With 
a structure that might work 
well in a movie and an overall 
theme that might appear on a 
made-for-TV movie, this play 
is innocent, carefully-crafted, 
and surprisingly strong.
Tahir plays a regal Arme
nian with all the pomp and selfrighteousness expected from a 
man stuck in his fathers
shadow. While Silvas portrayal 
of Seta as a girl was over
wrought with emotion and 
drawn out, Setas later lines 
are delivered with grace. Fi
nally, Tim Federle as Vincent, 
a boy who befriends the couple, 
is a bit too cute. However, he 
delivers his lines with the air of 
a veteran. Even his sweet por
trayal is excusible in this case.
Directed by Sara Chazen and 
written by CMU alumnus Ri
chard Kalinoski, the produc
tion was smooth and lively. As 
mentioned before, there are as
pects of the play that are com
mercial, and others that ar 
overly sweet. However, Beast 
on the Moon stands on its own 
merits. From the subject mat
ter, the persecution of Arme
nians by the Turkish in 1909, 
to the story, the play is rich and 
full. The title is taken from an 
occurrence during Turk occu
pation. An eclipse began when 
the Turks were beginning to 
invade the country and claim 
territories as their own. The 
Armenians were frightened by 
the eclipse but stayed in their 
homes and prayed. The Turk
ish, however, shot guns and 
cannons at the beast that had 
suddenly come and covered the 
moon. This describes the atti
tude that the Armenians took: 
dangers were to be faced, but j 
not head on. Other measures, 
more civilized ones, had to be 
taken. This is exactly what 
Aram does in this play. While 
sometimes itworks, the couple 
finally reaches the point where  
prayer and waiting is not 
enough.
Beast In the Moon is a play 
about love and faith. It is 
about waiting and sadness. 
And it never leaves you on a I! 
deserted road for not doing ; 
what it wants you to do. It is a 
genteel, kind, and consider
ate. It is the kind of play your 
mother would want you to 
bring home.
w4mDo.pg 4I wtog sL.noD.
Seta (Vilma Sliva) offers her new photographer husband, Aram 
(Farhant Tahir) a piece of chocolate cake in Beast on the Moon.
ro u ^anli\a
~Po V*nr\a
Introducing The Amtrak Explore America Fare.
Over 500 Destinations. Unlimited Stopovers. One Low Price.
Al1n UMn6.1PCn }b. }Mu r2 i.M6u >.Culn imMPnt pMnt pP pCbmO 5uP N.1 Am7 5MC cvSpO
>
Ok, you've survived lectures on the 
Peloponnesian 
War and your 
midterms, so grab your 
rollerblades or hiking boots 
and head for the nearest 
Amtrak station. Theres a 
world of adventure waiting for you, and getting 
there has never been more fun. Or a 
better value. Our spring fares with 
unlimited stopovers start at just 
$158 round-trip, and only 
VISA $50 more fr summer.
Whats more, when you pay with VISA, 
youll also get:
 5% off Amtrak sleeping accommodations. 
(Not applicable to fares)
 10% off rack rate or an up
grade to a Senior Room at 
Rodeway Inns and Econo 
Lodges. Or to an Executive
Room at Clarion Hotels and Quality 
Inns.
 10% off rack rate at Sleep Inns.
 Up to $20 off, free weekend rental 
day, or free upgrades from Avis.
And with the Student 
Advantage Card youll get an 
additional 15% off Amtrak 
fares. For more information 
call 1-800-96-AMTRAK
So whether its the bright lights of New York 
City or the beauty of the Grand Canyon, the 
Amtrak Explore America Fare will give you the 
inside track to the scenic route.
But hurry. Seats are limited! See your travel 
agent, stop by any Amtrak station, or call 
1-800-USA-RAIL.
AMTRAK
Reservations are required and must be made from 3/15-5/15/96 for travel 4/1-8/18/96. Fares are valid for up to 30 days travel in coach. Additional charge for first class or other accommodations. Not valid on Metroliner Service or Auto 
TrainSM. Tickets are nonrefundable. Children's half-fare applies to up to two children (ages 2-15) accompanied by adult. A discount of 15% applies to passengers age 62 and over and to students holding a Student Advantage card. Travel over 
the same segment of the Amtrak route system is restricted. Changes to route or stopovers after departure prohibited. Fares are based on availability and subject to change without notice. Seats are limited. All Aboard Amenca fare routing and
restrictions apply. The Amtrak Explore America Fare Is not a ticket and only entitles the holder to discounts stated herein. Amtrak, Avis, and Choice discounts and/or up
grades only available when purchased with VISA card. 10% discounts at Choice Hotels' chains valid through 5/20/96 (Sleep Inns valid through 6/15/96). Reservations 
must be made in advance by calling 1-800-4CH0ICE. Room upgrades based on availability and may not be available at all locations. Avis offers include a free upgrade, 
savings of $10 to $20 on a weekend rental, and a free third consecutive weekend day. Certain terms and conditions apply. See the Avis coupons for complete details.>F AVIS./V
FORUM TRAVEL 
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 March 1996Lll
DH 2210
T l LU L L.IJXUJL
movies you may have seen before...,
By JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, March 14 
The Doom Generation
Imagine theres no heaven. Its easy if you try. 
There would be a bunch of stuff going on, similar to 
the stuff that goes on in The Doom Generation.
This movie is like Reality Bites meets Natural 
Born Killers meets Cinderella meets that movie 
about the sun thats about to blow everybody up, 
including Jack Palance. See, this one is pretty 
impressive. A girl who is sexy gets these dopes to 
run around with her, killing people for love and 
money. Its supposed to be a statement about the 
post-apocalyptic state which innocent writers feel 
that innocent young people face every day. In fact, 
if stuff was as bad as this movie makes it out to be, 
wed all be having a better time.
See it with some girl who is sexy and wants you to 
kill people.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, March 15 
The Incredibly True Adventures of 
Two Girls in Love
Andrew says that in this movie theres this lesbian 
who all the people in this high school hate and this 
other girl who just broke up with her boyfriend. So 
what happens is this girl falls in love with the 
lesbian and all heck breaks loose. Kisses are aflying. Slander is a-rolling. Funs a popping. In the 
tradition of When Harry Met Sally and the Rambo 
movies, this flick is packed with sweet, delicious, 
and hearty real smoke taste.
Its supposed to be really good and pretty funny. 
Its kind of like Lucas, only both of them are girls, 
instead of a dorky boy and a nasty girl. See it with 
a bag of pork rinds. Imagine! Pork rinds are only 
pork rinds and salt fried up to a golden crispiness 
and lightly seasoned for that oh-so-very taste.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
K ..>
Saturday, March 16 
Sudden DeathT'
Wow! Hey! Boooom! Exploooooooooo-sion!
See, thats pretty much what youre going to get on 
this little outing. Steven Segal takes his brood to a 
hockey game. The president or one of the guys who 
collects the change out of candy machines or some 
other important kind of guy is there. Evil guys want 
to kill the important guy. Oh no! Segals brood is 
going to be murderized. /Que horror! Luckily, how
ever, Segal is a really cool cop who can kick major 
cajones.
Theres plenty of action and helicopters and big 
elephants and that guy on the Carol Burnett show 
that cleans up after the parade during the opening 
credits. In fact, there is something for every single 
taste. There are kids for the pedophiles. There are 
terrorists for the overly aggressive. There are im
portant people for those with a future in politics or 
government work. See it with a balding guy who 
thinks hes deep.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, Friday 17 
War of the Colossal Beast
What the heck? I dont know what this jive stuff is 
about. Its about some colossal beast or something. 
Instead of saying much about it, Im going to give 
you the definition of colossal and beast.
Colossal a. of enormous size [Gk. kolossos]
Beast n. any inferior animal as opposed to man; a 
four-footed animal especially if wild; cattle; person 
of brutal nature in form or nature; filthy; displeas
ing. [L. bestia],
Hope that helps. See it with someone who is really 
large or brutal in form or nature.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Birdcage provides a barrel of laughs
By APRIL C. MOATE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Birdcage is a perfectly won
derful remake of the 1978 film La 
Cage Aux Folles, one of the most 
popular foreign-language films 
and Broadway musicals of all 
time.
What: Birdcage 
Director: Mike Nichols 
Comapny: MGM/UA
The story is about two middleaged gay men, Arma'nd and 
Albert. Armand (Robin Williams) 
is the owner of a nightclub called 
the Birdcage, and Albert (Nathan 
Lane) is his lover and star of the 
drag-queen show that takes place 
nightly. Armands son Val, 
spawned by a one-night stand 
between Armand and another 
performer (played by Christine 
Baranski of the hit TV show 
Cybill) 20 years earlier, is about
on Broadway, but with The Bird
cage, hes on his way to pleasing 
movie-goers as well. One of the 
best and funniest characters in 
the movie is Armand and Alberts 
gay, Guatemalan housemaid 
played by Hank Azaria. Azaria 
takes his character over the top 
and one scene where hes mopto get married. The catch: Vals 
father-in-law-to-be is a conserva
tive Republican senator played 
by Gene Hackman. Vals task is 
to convince his fiancees family 
that he comes from a stable, con
servative background.
Director Mike Nichols {The 
Graduate, Working Girl) and 
scripter Elaine May 
do an excellent job of 
bringing the superb 
French comedy to 
Hollywood and giving 
this popular story a 
larger audience. The 
dialogue is witty and 
sharp and the cast
ing is excellent. Each 
character in the 
movie is good for at
least half-a-dozen laughs. Robin ping the floor and singing while 
Williams does a terrific job of wearing nothing but a g-string is
The Birdcage provides two 
hours of more sophisticated 
humor,; with just the right 
amount of slapstick woven in 
for good measure. 
playing the less-effiminate half 
of the gay couple and Nathan 
Lane is outrageously hilarious as 
the flaming drag queen who 
serves as Vals surrogate mother. 
Lane is better known for his work
one of the best and funniest in the 
movie.
One thing that works so well in 
this movie is that Williams does 
not steal it. In many of his mov
ies, he has a tendency to overshadow everyone else with his 
wild style and exuberant sense of 
humor. The balance of many dif
ferent gay personalities in The 
Birdcage makes for a sympa
thetic, touching story of a more 
well-balanced family than you 
might usually find in most Holly
wood films. This movie gives an 
honest and fair por
trayal of gay life with
out succumbing to ste
reotypes and clichs.
It is so rare that a 
quality comedy comes 
out of the Hollywood 
studios, especially in 
the era of inane and 
talentless actors such 
_______ as Pauly Shore and
Adam Sandler. The 
Birdcage provides two hours of 
more sophisticated humor, with 
just the right amount of slapstick 
woven in for good measure. The 
story has pleased audiences al
most 20 years, and no doubt will 
continue to please them for many 
years to come.Boring plot characterizes Three Tall Women
By ALEX LEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Pulitzer-prize-winning play
wright Edward Albee has said of 
Three Tall Women that it is a 
work of total fiction based en
tirely on my adoptive mother, 
who kicked him out of her home 
when he was 18 for his shenani
gans and attitude.
Not surprisingly, the section of 
the play that deals with this com
plex mother-son relationship is 
the most interesting the high
light of a 2-1/2 hour tediously 
discursive journey through three 
stages of one womans life. The 
three women of the title are, in 
fact, the same woman at differ
ent ages: 26, 52, and 92. Its a 
neat trick, but one comes away
from the Pittsburgh Public 
Theaters production, directed 
by Susan Einhorn, wondering 
what the point was. Nothing 
seems to be accomplished as 
these three women sit and remi
nisce, discussing their past and 
future without drawing any ap
parent conclusions  except 
maybe that in a life full of un
happy events, there is happi
ness to be found at all points. 
But it comes off more as a pub
lic service message than the 
epiphany it makes itself out to 
be.
But when the womans son 
(Brian Hutchison) comes on 
stage, suddenly it all feels a 
little more genuine. Now were 
actually seeing a part of the 
womans life instead of hearing
w4mDo.pg 4I UtoopumDeL Umuitc sL.no.D 
Nancy McDoniel, Linda Marie Larson, and Annie Murray star in Edward 
Albees Three Tall Women.
about it, and each 
ages reaction to the 
wayward and desert
ing son is fascinating.
C (the youngest, 
played by Linda Marie 
Larson) fawns over 
him, infatuated with 
the notion of her un
born son becoming a 
handsome and mature 
man. B (Nancy Mc
Doniel) regards him 
with a fierce loathing, 
just powerful enough 
to reveal a reluctant 
and concealed love. A 
(the eldest, Annie 
Murray) treats him 
with the necessary 
maternal contempt, 
but also a wise and A an(j B 
exasperated regret 
that borders on forgiveness.
Ursula Beldens set is the 
other noteworthy aspect of this 
production. With its pervading 
white and sparse, almost la
bored, furnishings, the room re
calls the epochal white cham
ber in the closing sequence of 
2001, where astronaut Dave 
Bowman witnesses his own 
rapid aging process until he fi
nally reaches his literal second 
childhood and a universal wis
dom  principles that also ap
pear, fleetingly, in Albees script 
itself.
The performances are diverse 
in a way that seems disturb
ingly appropriate: Murray is the 
most convincing, Larson is the 
least. And McDoniel is somew4mDo.pg 4I UoopumDeL Umuitc sL.no.D8 
examine the life of one woman.
where in between. Its a mani
festation of exactly what Albee 
seems to be getting at  the 
growing wisdom that comes 
with experience. But even A, 
the eldest, seems to be in a 
learning process, just as B and 
C are, and she didnt seem to 
contribute any more profundity 
to the conversation than her 
younger selves.
Edward Albee himself is 68 
years old, somewhere in be
tween his B and A. Since the 
most interesting part of the 
script is that which we know 
comes from Albees own experi
ence, maybe he ought to revise 
this play in a decade or two, 
when his wisdom will give us 
more of what feels genuine.
Surprise your folks.
M/hen you stay awake in class, you tend to learn more. (Unless you have an uncanny 
talent of learning through osmosis.) So don't let fatigue get in the way of your A, Revive 
with Vivarin. One tablet has the same amount of caffeine as about two cups of coffee. 
And it's just as safe. Hey, anything is possible, if you're up for it.
%?S\SmithKlino Boacham
1995 aDDiDv slnoi.r1 Lr4btMU41r
Np. 4dig np ztD.co.zaRevive with Vivarin!

---------------------------------------------------

and the reading starts at 8:30. For more infor
mation, call Micki Myers at 441-2859.
The University of Oslo announces the 50th 
session of the Oslo International Summer 
School (ISS), running from June 22 to August 2 
on the Blindera Campus of the University of 
Oslo in Norway. For application materials or 
other information, write to Oslo Summer 
School, c/o St. Olaf College, Northfield, MN 
55057-1098, or call (800) 639-0058.
The Lambda Foundation of Pittsburgh is
pleased to announce that it is again accepting 
applications for its annual Lambda Foundation 
Scholarship. The $3,000 scholarship is awarded 
to a student who has made an outstanding 
contribution toward the integration of gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual people, culture, and 
organizations into his or her college community. 
For more information, call Carolyn Kyler at 
223-8919.
The Sierra Club is proud to pnnounce that 
Galen Rowell, the worl^s\^remi^r mountain 
photographer, will be coming back to 
Pittsburgh for a day-long photography work
shop on April 20. All events will take place in or 
near the Chatham College Chapel. Tickets are 
$40 for the workshop and $9 ($7 students) for 
the show. For more information, call R. L. 
Gibbon at 494-8585.
The Intervarsity Christian Fellowship will 
be sponsoring a discussion entitled Love and 
Romance in the '90s this Thursday at 8 pm in 
the Morewood cafeteria. For more information, 
call Drew Ryan at X2-2696.
The Internal Revenue Service has created a 
new telephone-based tax return filing system 
called TeleFile. For more information, call 
Chris DeSimone at (301) 657-2772.
Gender and Development Beyond Beijing: 
Exploring Local and International Strate
gies, a conference on the roles of women in 
modem society, will be held at the University of 
Pittsburgh in 2M56 Forbes Quad from Tuesday 
through Thursday. For more information, call 
Victoria Stanley at 422-8257.
The Pedro Zamora AIDS Public Policy 
Fellowship Program is accepting applications 
until April 15 for its summer program. For 
application materials, call (202) 986-1300.
The Pittsburgh Ceili Club will hold its 
seventh annual St. Patricks Weekend Kickoff 
Ceili this Friday at 8 pm at the Hyatt Hotel, 
downtown. The evening will include traditional 
Irish dance with music provided by local musi
cians. Door prizes and refreshments are in
cluded. For more information, call 486-2684.
A taxpayer service specialist from the 
Internal Revenue Service will be available to 
answer your questions about filing Federal
Income Tax Forms for 1995 on Tuesday, April 
2, from noon-1:30 pm in the Student Center 
207. The event is open to all members of the 
campus community, and refreshments will be 
served. Sponsored by Student Activities. For 
more info, contact Anne Witchner at x8-8704.
Buggy freeroll practices will commence this 
Saturday and Sunday from 69 am on Tech 
Street, Frew Street, and Schenley Drive. Push 
practices start this Monday and will run from 
Monday through Thursday from 12:01-6 am 
weekly until April 18. For more information, 
contact Anne Witchner at X8-8704.
The Intervarsity Christian Fellowship is
sponsoring another Quest lecture/discussion: 
Finding Your Someone, part of the Love and 
Romance in the 90s series, on Thursday, at 8 
pm in Morewood cafeteria. Admission is free. 
For more information, please contact Drew 
Ryan atx2-2696. ,, d, T1nM6
S);one Soup will be playing this Thursday at 
Whiskey Dicks and again on Saturday at 
Lucianos with local performer Jenn Wertz. For 
more information, call 934-1959.
The Manchester Craftsmens Guild pre
sents the John Scofield Quartet this Saturday 
at 8 pm. For more information, call 322-0800.
The Renaissance and Baroque Society will 
present the Philadelphia Renaissance Wind 
Band in Strike up the Tabor this Friday and 
Saturday at 8 pm in Synod Hall, 125 North 
Craig Street, Oakland. Tickets are $7 for 
students. For more information, call 682-7262.
The Carnegie Mellon Originals, CMUs first 
all-male a capella singing group, is looking for
GuPPuC em1Pd-gmbCmP pbC SCm22
more members! If you have a good voice and 
know how to be funny, or are just interested in 
finding out more about this exciting new 
ensemble, call Ken at 441-0875 or email 
jaredm@andrew.
,,, hu6C1bun
Anne Simonton will be presenting her lecture, 
Sex, Power, and Media: Rethinking the Myths of 
Americas Dream Girl, this Friday at 7:30 pm in 
Wean 7500. This event is sponsored by the 
Womens Center and AB Lectures.
The Jewish University Center/Hillel 
Foundation will be sponsoring two lectures by 
visiting Israeli scholar-in-residence Jay Shapiro 
on the subject of Arab-Israeli relations. The 
first lecture will be this Monday at 7:30 pm, 
and the second will be on Friday at 6:15 pm at 
the Lutheran University Center. Admission to 
the second lecture is $1. For more information, 
call 621-8875.
gumCbu
The City Theatre presents the Pittsburgh 
premiere of Beast on the Moon, Richard 
Kalinoskis distinctly American play about a 
photographer and his mail-order bride. Beast 
opens this Wednesday at 8 pm at the City 
theatre, located at 57 South 13th Street on the 
South Side. For more information, call 431- 
CITY.
A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to 
the Forum wil be playing at Carlow Colleges 
Antonian Theatre this Thursday through 
Saturday at 8 pm. Tickets are $8 for the 
general public and $5 for students. For more 
information, call 578-6685.
bitch, wheres my bacon?
its not the size, its the taste stupid!
something about a conga line that makes you 
wanna get naked, huh?
Congratulations Neil! Most groovy for you.
Call it Bob.
On a moving bus? Have you no shame?
Bacon v. sizzlean 
Jay, does she ever speak?
wow, I screwed up good  Sorry shorty, 
theres a thin line between clever and stupid 
speculate this, buddy!
If pigs could fly, do you think theyd really want 
to?
But what I meant to say was four naked singers 
and two hours in between.
Congratulations Kappa 11 years and going 
strong.
Julee, is that lipstick in your pocket or did you 
spill ketchup?
Pm.MmP
* TW> Ao>vS>S
V }Mln
The Doom Generation will play this Thurs
day in DH 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
The Incredibly True Adventures of Two 
Girls in Love will play this Friday in DH 2210 
at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sudden Death will play this Saturday in DH 
2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
War of the Colossal Beast will play in DH 
2210 this Sunday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
The Carnegie Museum of Art presents the 
newly available directors cut of Utu this 
Friday at 8 pm. pbC
A Century of Exploration and Collection, an
exhibit celebrating the Carnegie Museums 
centennial year, will be on view beginning 
January 27. The exhibit traces 100 years of 
scientific activities through 80 artifacts selected 
for historical significance. Call the Museum at 
622-3361 for more information.
Birds and Beasts of Ancient Latin America,
a new traveling exhibit exploring the relation
ship between humans and animals in the PreColumbian world, will be on view at the Carn
egie Museum of Natural History until April 14 
in the Changing Exhibits Gallery. For more 
information, call 622-3361.
The Hewlett Gallery presents Disembodied,
a mixed-media installation by Leah Crowley. 
Disembodied will be on display from March 14- 
April 12. You are invited to meet the artist at a 
public reception at the gallery on Thursday, 
March 14, from 5-7 pm. Admission to the 
gallery and reception is free.
The Heinz Architechtural Center presents A 
Century of Women Landscape Architects and 
Gardeners in Pittsburgh, February 20 through 
June 2,1996. This exhibition will highlight 
several women who worked in the Pittsburgh 
region. Guest curated by Judith Hull, the show 
features original drawings of landscape designs 
supplemented by photographs.
Symbols, Shadows, and Reflections, a 
collection of recent oil paintings by Fran Panza 
and Bernie Wilke, will be on display at the 
Studio Z Gallery, located at 1415 East Carson 
Street, from March 1-23. An opening reception 
is scheduled for this Friday from 6-9 pm.
The Forbes Gallery presents the work of 
Laura Domencic, Grace Summanen, and Jen 
Urso. The show will be running from Tuesday 
through Sunday, and there will be a reception 
on Friday from 7-9 pm.
Silver Eye Center for Photography presents 
Landscape Obscura, the pinhole photography of 
Harvey Stein, Craig Barber, and Sue Abramson, 
through April 27 at Silver Eye, 1015 East 
Carson Street. Hours are noon to 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Saturday. The opening reception is this 
Saturday at 7 pm.
Its US: A Celebration of Who We Are in 
America Today, a photo exhibit on American 
cultural themes, will be on display at the 
Carnegie Library through April 14. For more 
information, call 622-8872.
The Films of Andy Warhol will be on display 
at the Warhol Museum weekly from Wednesday 
to Sunday. For information on specific films, 
call 237-8338.
The Forbes Gallery is featuring the creative 
work of Anne Castle and Scott Morris this week. 
Stop in during open hours and check it out. 
Receptions are Fridays from 7-9 pm.
Please join us!W e.CM6un
Join the CMU Ballroom Dancing Club to
stay in shape and have a terrific time. Learn to 
dance the waltz, fox-trot, tango, cha-cha, 
rumba, swing, and salsa. Classes are on 
Thursdays at 7 and 9:30 pm in the Drill Deck, 
Student Center. Singles and couples are 
welcome. Semester fees are $15 for students,
$25 for CMU staff or alumni, $30 for all others.
Connelley Technical Institute and Adult 
Education Center is looking for volunteers to 
tutor adult students in reading and/or math. 
Time and place will be accommodated to meet 
your schedule. Free training and materials are 
provided. For more information, please contact 
338-3711.
The Beehive Reading Series presents the 
poetry of James Ragan and Jeff Condron this 
Thursday. There will be an open mike at 8 pm
