File No.,/ Fil ef7&
The Tartai?
Published Weekly by Students of the 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
FileNo 111 
.eN,o/ 20
aawnw turn
FEBRUARY 17, 19091i illa/w no 4oa/ 
1o* ?o*nw no ?i---------------------------------------------------

4'+,,4,4H+4,4",4,M"H,4Mt4'4,4,ii,4't4,M,4,i,,i,4i4,4,,H,  4*4" %>
4* 4*i ? 4* t 4*
O%:;*X0%O%$XOX0%*0*0*8%0X%O*X8%%aX 
 0
In the game with 
2,000 Students
*I4***4* t 4*4*4*4* f 4*4*4*4*4-I4*4*
!4*4*4*4*4*4*44*4*4"4*4*4*?
I Advertising Manager The Tartan t
4* *J# |||g. Carnegie Technical Schools 41
4* 44* 4*|4*4*4*4*4**I*4**I**I*I*4*4*4*4*4*4*'l**t**l**I**I*,I**I*'I**I'll**I**I*,I*4**I**l*4*4*
Mr. Merchant, there are over three 
thousand students at Carnegie Tech 
who are spending money every day. 
Do they know who you are and what 
you have to sell? Are you talking 
with them through the advertising 
columns of The Tartan? Better make 
arrangements for space if you want 
your share of Tech money. If you 
want to get in the game, write to
ttt4*4*t
*0*0 * 0 * 
* g10
1 * 
8 a * 0 * 0 * 0 N 0o.*0,
g0*0*0*0
S8
Hotel Schenle}
PITTSBURG, PA.
?g1CrT1?g chS.Cgs?
c|S
CLASS DINNERS
T.
DANCES
James Riley, Prop.
0g
g
'
'*0
xoso%o;*o\o*o\osoxoso\osov0s0x0\o\0\&
sI
ffl
EVERY 
TECHNICAL MAN
needs one of the following 
Engineering Journals:
ELECTRICAL WORLD
The foremost authority of the world on all 
branches of electrical work.
Weekly Edition, $3.00. Monthly Edition, $1.00
THE ENGINEERING RECORD
The most valuable paper published for 
the civil and mechanical engineer.
Published Weeklyfij.oo a Year
ELECTRIC RAILWAY JOURNAL
The undisputed authority on the construc
tion, operation and management of city 
and inter-urban railways.
Published Weekly$3.00 a Year
Special Rates to Students 
Sample Copies on Request
McGRAW PUBLISHING CO.
239 West 39 Street - - - New York
4*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*0 0 ** 00 4*1 Joseph Horne Co. i
Pittsburgs Great Store
EVERYTHING
FOR
EVERYBODY
AND ALWAYS AT THE VERY 
LOWST PRICES

---------------------------------------------------

TEN CENTSYOL III, No. 20 art an
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1909
TECHS EASTERN BASKET-BALL TRIP
The Juniata Game.
In a clean, fast and intensely interesting game, 
Tech opened her Eastern trip by swamping the 
strong Juniata College five at Huntingdon last 
Thursday night by the score 3619. Tech demon
strated her superiority in every point of the game, 
and after overcoming a slight lead which Juniata 
took at the beginning of the game, forged rapidly 
ahead and were never overtaken.
In the first half Tech seemed erratic and failed to 
put up her usual aggressive game, making the play 
slow and giving Juniata many open chances, they 
in turn taking advantage of every opening. The 
team, however, played in this style for only a short 
time and soon gave the followers of the Juniata team 
an exhibition of fast play, excellent team work and 
accurate shooting, such as has seldom been seen on 
the Huntingdon floor.
Captain Leetys place at guard was filled by Carey 
and Williams replaced Carey in the second half. 
Both men played in fast and aggressive style. Do
lan was again in good form and demonstrated his 
ability to cover the entire floor, playing continually 
the whole time not only a strong defensive game, 
but advancing up the floor worried the Juniata de
fense by his accurate field shots.
Agnew played the entire game at guard and was 
very effective in breaking up the team work of the 
Juniata quintet.
Harrison failed to perform in his usual style, due 
in large part to the way in which he was covered 
and consequently was shut out without a goal from 
the field.
Brown, after having missed a game showed that 
he had forgotten none of the finer points of the 
game and time after time brought the spectators to 
their feet by his speedy floor work, his accurate 
passing and sensational shooting. Try as the op
posing guards would they were unable to break up 
the dribbling of our fast forward.
The first half ended 1911 in Techs favor. The 
second half was filled with brilliant passing and 
good field shootiag. Techs five clearly outplayed 
Juniata in every department of the game. Score:
Juniata19. Tech36.
Reichard..............................F...................................... Brown
Miller....................................F............................... Harrison
Wardlow..............................C...................................... Dolin
Landis..................................G.................................... Agnew
Miller...................................G...................Casey, Williams
Goals from field'Miller 4, Wardlow 1, Landis 1, 
Brown 5, Dolin 5, Agnew 3, Casey 2, Williams 1. 
Goals from foulsMiller 7, Brown 4.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
THE LEHIGH GAME.
It was a fast and exciting game that Tech played 
against the heavy . Lehigh five on Friday night at 
South Bethlehem. Although the final score was 
against Tech, the game reflected nothing but credit 
for our team and the result was decidedly in doubt 
until the play was closed by the last whistle. Le
high outweighed the Tech five more than thirty 
pounds to the man and depending on their weight to 
smash up Tech's fast team work succeeded to a 
marked degree.
The game opened up with Lehigh scoring first. 
Tech, by fast floor work, rapid passing and dribbling 
took the lead after the first two minutes, which they 
maintained to within three minutes of the end of the 
half. The half ended 2218 in Lehigh's favor.
Tech entered the second half with the same de
termination to win which has characterized her play
ing the entire season. The remarkable part of the 
Tech teams work was that for the first eight min
utes of the second half with the score against them, 
Lehigh was shut out without a field goal. The ex
cessive weight of the South Bethlehem team grad
ually had its effect and slowly but surely wore down 
the defense of our light team. Five minutes before 
the close of the game, Dolan, who had been putting 
up a remarkable game, had the misfortune to be in
jured and, although not retiring from the game, was 
greatly weakened. Lehigh increased their lead from 
this point and won by the score 3523. The game 
was a credit to the Tech team and shows that they 
can well hold their own on strange floors.
The particular star of the Lehigh game was Brown. 
He was but a midget beside his opposing guard, but 
even this did not hinder him from being in the game 
at all times. His shooting of goals from the foul 
line was phenomenal, scoring thirteen out of a pos
sible fifteen points. Brown scored in this game 17 
out of a total of 23 points. Round after round of 
applause was given Brown for his sensational work 
and he was given the credit of being the fastest 
forward who had appeared on the local floor during 
the past year.
Williams and Agnew filled the guard positions, 
working well together the entire time. Dolin played 
his usual strong game at center and Harrison aided 
greatly in the team's work on Browns side-partner. 
The score:
Lehigh35. Tech22.
Dayetta..................................................... F................. Brown
Osbourne................................F.............................. Harrison
Street.....................................C...................................... Dolan
Davies.....................................G............................. Williams
Keil..........................................G................................................................... Agnew
Goals from fieldDayette 3, Osbourne 4, Street 2, 
Davies 5, Keil 1, Brown 2, Harrison 1, Dolan 2. 
FoulsDayette 5, Brown 12. SubstitutionsCook 
for Dayette, Merkel for Osbourne.
THE BUCKNELL GAME.
The third game of the hard eastern trip which 
was played at Lewisburg against Bucknell Univer
sity, resulted in a victory for the home team by the 
score 4023. Although Tech lost, they were out
classed only during the last few minutes of the game, 
and this was due mainly to the weakened condition 
of the team after the two previously hard fought 
games.
The first half was close the entire time and had 
the Bucknell contingent thoroughly scared. The 
score see sawed the entire time, and when the haif 
ended Bucknell led by the narrow margin of three 
points, the score being 1714.
Immediately after the opening of the second half, 
Casey, who had been putting up a strong game at 
guard, had the misfortune to collide with one of the 
Bucknell forwards and the result was that his nose 
was broken in two places. This seemed to slightly 
unnerve Tech, and being worn out with the previous 
fast play and hard trip, gave Bucknell a decided ad
vantage. The Lewisburg five rapidly took the lead 
which Tech was unable to overcome. The final 
score does not indicate the fight Bucknell had to put 
up to win. Tech was in the game the entire time 
and fought every inch of the way, though consid
erably handicapped. Brown was again the main 
support of the team, but his good work only reflects 
additional credit on the work of the other men. The 
score:
Bucknell40.Tech23.
........F................
Kurtz..................................F...............
........C...............
........G.............
McNinch.............................G.............
Goals from fieldKurtz 7, OBrien 5, Shoop 3, 
Thatcher 3, Brown 2, Dolan 3, Harrison, Casey, Wil
liams 1. FoulsShoop 1, OBrien 3, Brown 7. Sub
stitutionsThatcher for Shoop, Reber for Craig, 
Williams for Casey.
THE TECH BANNER.
Since the original banner of Scotch plaid, pre
sented the [Schools by their founder, Mr. Carnegie, 
is held so sacred as to have been kept in an armour 
plate vault ever since the start of the schools, and 
displayed to public gaze but twices it is desirable to 
have a varsity banner for state occasions. One of 
white with a plaid border and C. T. S. in plaid letters 
in the center is being made, and will be displayed 
for the first time at the Glee Club Concert. It will 
fill a long felt want and make the other still more 
sacred.
All arrangements concerning it were made by the 
presidents of the students activities and represent
atives of the A. & J. school. The design chosen is 
one of a number that were prepared.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
THE ENGINEER.
Who comes with Faber sharpened keen,
With profile long, and sober mein,
With transit, level, book and tape,
And glittering axe to swat the stake?
The Engineer.
Who sets the level, bends his spine,
Squints thru the glass along the line,
Waves his arms at a rapid rate
And yells: Hold that blooming rod up straight?
The Engineer.
Who reads the numbers on the rod,
And hastly speeds along the sod 
The wriggling tape; then with a shout,
Quickly gives the distance out?
The Engineer.
Who marks the fill on every stake,
With crimson keel of. natures make,
And adds the shrinkage every time,
Which is perhaps his greatest crime?
Ths Engineer.
Who raves and snorts like one insane,
Jumps in the air and tears his mane,
Wheneer he sees a scraper take 
Liberties with his cherished stake?
The Engineer.
Who swears hell charge an even ten 
For stakes destroyed by mules or men,
While on all fours he tries in vain 
To find the vanished stake again?
The Engineer.
Who saws the air with madened rage,
And turns in haste the figured page,
And then with patience out of joint,
Ties in another reference point?
The Engineer.
Who throws his eyes along the slope,
Where Celt with mattock loves to mope,
Then throws a clod and says: Right there,
Youre out of lineabout a hair?
The Engineer.
Who makes the hapless hobo yank,
Along the slippery inclined plank,
His jaded barrow full of muck,
When the dump is finished; just for luck?
The Engineer.
Who gives to you the chilly eye,
And says: Ill never, classify
A cut with earthy indications,
And refers you to your specifications?
The Engineer.
Who points to your unrivalled gall,
Wheneer you kick for overhaul,
And gives your spine the frigid chill,
Wheneer you spring an extra bill?
The Engineer.
Who deals in figures quite profuse,
And tells you solid rock is loose,
That hardpans nothing more than loam,
While gumbo's lighter than the foam?
Th Engineer.
Who after all commonds our praise,
In spite of his peculiar ways,
While others harvest all the gain,
Which springs from his prolific brain?
The Engineer.
Who always has a way to span 
The swiftest stream that ever ran;
And gives to commerce strength and speed 
To satisfy a nations need?
The Engineer.
He will, when science rules the mind,
Be hailed the savior of mankind,
And from a grateful world will spring 
The praise and honor due to him.
The Engineer. 
Author Unknown.
Glee and Mandolin Club Concert, Carnegie Music 
Hall, February 19.
JUNIOR PROM.
Final arrangements for the Junior Prom of Day 
Applied Science have been completed. The Grand 
March will start at 8.30. The following is the com
plete list of patronesses:
Mrs. A. A. Hamerschlag 
Mrs. Wm. McConway 
Mrs. S. B. McCormick 
Mrs. A. J. Wurts 
Mrs. W. E. Gibbs 
Mrs. S. S. Kellar 
Mrs. J. H. James 
Mrs. Fred Crabtree 
Mrs, Geo. H. Follows 
Mrs. F. E. Foss 
Mrs. J. H. Leete 
Mrs. C. B. Connelly 
Mrs. Henry Hornbostel 
Mrs. W. H. Stevenson 
Mrs. Allen H. Wellett 
Mrs. W. F. Knox 
Mrs. H. K. McGoodwin 
Mrs. W. B. Doyle 
Mrs. W. N. Frew 
Mrs. J. A. Brashear 
Mrs. Robert Pitcairn 
Mrs. J. H. Reed 
Mrs. Chas. L. Taylor 
Mrs. Wm. Metcalf 
Mrs. Jos. Buffington 
Mrs. S. H. Church 
Miss Anna B. Smith 
Miss Clara L. West.

---------------------------------------------------

6THETA RTAN
M. M. C. S.
THE LITTLE GIRLS CHOICE.
There was great excitement among the flowers. 
The Nice Looking Gentleman and the Pretty Lady 
been in the garden talking to the gardener. The 
tall, stately lily, whom no one would have accused 
of gossiping, had told them all that had been said.
The Nice Looking Gentleman and the Pretty Lady 
had a little girl. The flowers had only seen her 
once. Then, she had looked so pale and weak, and 
her brown eyes had been so big and sad, that they 
thought they would never see her again. But now, 
she was almost well and was coming out to see 
them. The Pretty Lady had said she would come 
to-morrow. The gardener was going to give them his 
best attention and they were to look their very 
prettiest. Then the Little Girl was to walk through 
the garden and pick the one she liked best.
The lily said, I, of course, shall stand the best 
chance, for she will see me first, and be so impressed 
by my appearance that she will choose me before 
she sees any of you. And the rose said, Children 
always like roses best. I am only a bud to-day, but 
to-morrow I shall be a beautiful red rose. Yes, I am 
sure to be her choice.
The violet, whom most people think is so modest, 
had become quite conceited. She had seen so many 
of her sisters go that she knew violets were well 
liked.
She will take me, she said, For all women love 
violets.
The lily of the valley was very sure that the little 
girl would like her best, For, she said, Every 
person loves my beautiful perfume.
At the.end of the garden was a rose-bush with a - 
little pale pink rose on it. It was just beginning to 
open. And out of all the garden of flowers, it was 
the only one who did not expect to be chosen.
She will have chosen before she comes to me, it 
said. If she does not take the beautiful white 
lily, she certainly will take the red rose. Oh! there 
is no use of my trying. She will not even see me. 
But I will try. Ill do my best. How the other 
flowers would laugh if they knew I was going to 
try.
The next morning the flowers were awake bright 
and early. Each one was determined to look her 
best. The lily tried to look taller and whiter than 
ever and the rose, as she had foretold, had opened, 
and looked very beautiful.
But after a few hours had gone by and the little 
girl had not come, the flowers did not seem so sure of 
themselves. The indifferent lily was really looking 
very nervous. The rose was noticeably impatient. 
And the little violet was not holding its head quite 
so high as usual. Way down at the end of the gar
den was the little pink rose. It had just opened.
It was not impatient, nor was it hanging its head. 
It said, Maybe the Little Girl will come down here 
even if she has chosen. She will be tired I know, 
so I will look happy and maybe that will make her 
look happy, too. Yes, that is what I will try to do.
I would rather see her eyes get bright when she 
sees me than to be her choice.
At last the lily said she saw the Little Girl com
ing. She was walking so slowly, the Pretty Lady 
on one side of her and the Nice Looking Gentleman 
on the other. She looked so pretty and sweet and 
her eyes looked so big, but not quite so sad as the 
other time, that the lily forgot to look so imposing, 
and the rose forgot to look so haughty.
She came nearer and nearer, and at last stood in 
front of the lily.
Oh! mother, she said, Isnt it beautiful? But, 
it is so tall, and straight, and white that I dont 
think it would care for me. And you asked me to 
choose the one I liked bestthe one that I knew 
sympathized with me. No, this is not the one.
She passed to the rose.
Father, what a lovely red rose. All the flowers 
must love it. It must be used to praise. How I 
should love to kiss it, but I have a feeling it wouldnt 
like it. So, I guess, father, this isnt the one either. 
The next she came to was the violet.
What a sweet little violet, she said.
But though it is so awfully little it seems to be 
looking down on me and pitying me. I could not 
stand to be pitied, so I cannot take the violet.
And she passed on to the lily of the valley. 
Mother, doesnt the lily of the valley smell sweet
ly? I love to smell it. But it doesnt love me. I 
do not want it.
The Little Girl was looking very tired.
Mother, she said with a sob in her voice, dont 
any of them love me? I thought one surely would. 
Wait a minute, dear, said the Pretty Lady, you 
havent seen them all yet. -See, here is a bush. 
Oh! mother, mother, I have found it See, a 
little pink rose.
M. F1911.
Miss Harding (in English class while Miss Dixon 
was reading)Oh! is that a bird? Listen!
After listening the girls replied, O, yes!
Isnt that delightful? said Miss Harding. I 
would much rather hear that than youpause 
but dont let that discourage you! Go on reading, 
Miss Dixon.
In cooking classPlebe A
Miss NickersonWhich of the bread sticks do 
you prefer?
Miss Blair, decidedlyThe crackers.
Miss Moore made heart-shaped biscuits in cooking 
the other day.
Miss N. said she was sure she wouldnt care for 
heart-shaped biscuits. They would be too soft in
side.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
TeacherMiss M., what do you mean by clear
ness?
Miss M.Queerness!
Thursday afternoon Prof. Keilar, of the School of 
Applied Science, gave us a delightful talk on Charles 
Darwin. It was both entertaining and instructive, 
refreshing and encouraging. We all enjoyed it, and 
hope he will come again.
Not an M. M. C. S. Girl.
TomI ate some of the cake she made, just to 
make myself solid.
DickDid you succeed?
TomI couldnt feel any more solid if had eaten 
concrete or building stone.
Kitty, said her mother, rebukingly, you must 
sit still when you are at the table.
I cant, mamma, protested the little girl, Im 
a fidgitarian.
The Prom is now a thing of the past, but it 
lingers pleasantly in the memory as a dream of fair 
women and gallant lads, of lights and music and good 
things to eat. The committee certainly deserves the 
commendation of all present.
Several young ladies, whose names we shall not 
mention, had occasion to go abroad one night last 
week after dark. One of their number was very 
diffident about venturing forth without an escort, but 
was finally persuaded by her braver sisters. As 
they boarded the car they were followed by four 
brass buttoned sons of Erin, and with this providen
tial protection the maidens reached their destination 
in safety. But there was yet the homeward trip at a 
later hour! However, the kindly fates had an eye 
on these timid children, and this time sent a body
guard that was worth while. The homeward trip 
was made in safety under the protecting shadow of 
twelve burly policementhree to one!
TommyPa, what is an equinox?
PaWhy, erit is-ahem! For goodness sake, 
Tommy, dont you know anything about mythology 
at all? An equinox was a fabled animal, half horse, 
half cow. Its name is derived from the words equine 
and ox. It does seem as if the public schools dont 
teach children anything now-a-days!Ex.
As thiough this life you go,
Meeting friend and meeting foe,
Dont let your head get very 
Much too big for your millinery.
For keep this truth in mind:
That youre just one in a kind
Of a great family of sisters and brothers
And dont forget that there are others.
Alexander.
I PLEBE CLASS |
v.octoc6ceci<d309cececectseoec83Boeo(>^jc^.cecuctC8CB3C808oeoeoeotS
Did you Notice?
At the lecture Thursday afternoon, The Plebes, 
out of courtesy to the Upper Classmen, occupied the 
undesirable balcony seats.
Also that Mr. Doyle in his address mentioned the 
classes of 1909, 1910, 1911 and did not mention 1912. 
Shall we charge him with unfairness?
No! We will thank him for the partiality shown 
to us.
Hurrah for Professor Wurts! Well all make Cs.
STUDENT INTEREST IN CITY GOVERNMENT.
Notice was given the first part of last week that 
William H. Stevenson would address the student 
body at his Center avenue headquarters on Wednes
day evening.
When Wednesday evening came round the sincere 
voters who gathered soon discovered that the stu
dent body, three thousand strong, had failed to re
spond. Just at this stage George Washington Ketter appeared on the scene. His first words were, 
Weve got to get them out. Suiting action to word 
a drum was borrowed and a march through the 
buildings began.
The Architects are usually ready to follow a noise, 
but when their department was reached some would 
not look up from their boards. It was discovered 
that Problem number 23 was due on Sunday. Some 
of them had not slept for three days.
The Science building was visited, and all who 
could be found were invited to join in the march. 
When the street entrance was reached the group of 
Stevenson men numbered about one hundred.
Torches and banners were given out, and the march 
to headquarters began. The weather was cold, but 
not cold enough to quench the desire for better city 
government.
G. W. Ketter was still in charge. Having marched 
with the voters, of Chicago during Clevelands first 
campaign, he was looked upon as a natural leader.
At headquarters a few rousing cheers were given 
and the speeches began. Mr. Stevenson told in a 
few words what the Civic party stood for. Other 
speakers went more into detail.
The bursts of oratory were well punctuated by the 
cheering section, composed of Sprague and Roura.
After more cheering the meeting was adjourned. 
All felt a greater interest in city affairs.
Glee and Mandolin Club Concert, Carnegie Music
Hall, February 19.


---------------------------------------------------

8 THETA
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by Stu
dents of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
P. I. Gaston, 09Editor-in-Chief 
Lowell W. Nicols, 10Associate Editor 
J. H. Taxis, 10, NightAssociate Editor 
Bess E. Sheets, M. M. C. S.Associate Editor
H. J. McCorkle, 11Business Manager
Subscription Rates
Yearly ............................................................. $2.00
Single Copy ...............................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care Carnegie Technical Schools.
The Smoker given the other evening, by the class 
of 1912 night, was attended by a considerable num
ber of day men, and all present agreed that they had 
had a very enjoyable evening. Not having any com
mon meeting room the night and day men have 
fraternized very little as yet, except at an occassional 
foot ball or hockey game.
The Smoker served as an opening wedge of a 
closer acquaintanceship, which it is hoped will not 
be allowed to languish. Since the smoking room in 
the new building has been opened up and partially 
furnished, there is a place where students may per
haps be able to spend a few social moments with 
the ever present danger of the hard roll so notice
able in the commons. The Glee club and the basket
ball team seem almost the only student activities 
that attract the interest of the night men. While 
we cant see why the night men pass the white 
Friars by or the day men turn out so poorly for the 
Glee club, we are glad that there is something for 
each. We would like very much to see more social 
events such as the Smoker, at which all might 
meet and become better acquainted.
By some poorly assimilated information and a 
great deal of carelessness we announced in the last 
issue two basket ball games that do not occur till 
this week. We are in hopes that the students will 
overlook our mistake as caused by our over zealous 
wish to secure a large attendance at the games, and 
not by indifference.
From comparative scores, which, however are 
sometimes misleading, we can see that our team is 
not by any means one of the weak ones. The east
ern trip last week was a little too much for the boys, 
but by tomorrow night they should be fit again, and
we should lee a basket ball game that is worth 
while. We still have a clear record in the league 
series, and although Westminster has a good team, 
we feel confident that ours is a better. Allegheny 
is undoubtedly the hardest proposition of all. This 
team has only been defeated once in two years on 
its home floor but as we play them both here, and at 
home, we should be able to annex at least one game. 
Leety will not be able to play, although it is expected 
that Casey, the other cripple, will be able to get in.
RT A N
THE TEDDY BEARS PICNIC.
Wednesday, February tenth, nineteen hundred 
nine, dawned bright and clear (as all the Pittsburg 
mornings do,) with a rainy looking cloud hanging 
over Old Mother Earth, that let fall a few flurrying 
flakes of snow. A brisk wind was increasing in 
strength as the Teddy Bears wended their way to 
the Tech iSchools, by the way of that strangely at
tractive route of Morewood and Woodlawn avenues. 
As this momentous day was growing apace, even the 
trees gave warning with growns and sighs of the 
impending peril that lay in the path of the innocent 
Bruins walking, arm in arm, loaded with their im
plements of warfare, such as cameras, tripods, um
brellas, lunch-boxes and books. Physical manifest
ations became more prominent as their steps grew 
nearer ever nearer to the board walk that leads to 
the ascent to the new Science Building. The boards 
under foot cracked with a sharp and rattling click 
as of bones struck together, while the breeze made 
the water into ice; dangerous to the pedestrain. 
The ground however retained its mucky and oozy 
condition seeking to take unto itself, and inbed with
in its clinging mire, all objects of any dimension.
The fatal point was located directly in front of the 
tennis courts that are besides the M. M. C. S. build
ing. At this point was a small unassuming board 
that had just received its final coating of glase; its 
narrow disposition having warped its upper surface 
into the proper wedge formation whose limiting 
angle was slightly greater than the angle of repose 
of leather on ice. The original members of the 
Junior Society approached the spot with a blissful 
ignorance of the fate in store for them. All joy was 
soon turned to sorrow, for alas poor Bicks foot 
found the fatal place, and forming a mattress out of 
his lunch-box, proceeded to sit thereupon. The jar 
of his arrival in this position caused his hat to sit 
up and take notice of the dandy breeze that had now 
become a gale. Straightway for the tennis courts

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
THE OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
/1a /w /1n/ /a n/1w4a *?a/ n -//- //1 /"n4 n4? w/"1 n4g 
CAPITAL $200,000.00 SURPLUS $126,000.00
Puublishe
JAS. J. FLANNERY, - . - - PresidentJAMES J. BOOTH, ... Vice President JOHN G. PEW, - - 2nd V. Pres, and Sec.C. B. AYLESWORTH, ... - Treasurer
flew the hat, with Bick in hot pursuit. Down the 
terraced hill, thru the mud and into the water he 
raced, while Schneck protected the camera, tripod, 
umbrella, books and what was left of the improv
ised mattress. Ere the hat started on its flight every 
window in the Margaret Morrison School was filled 
with laughter convulsed girls. Peal after peal of 
laughter rent the air, being supplemented by similar 
manifestations from the Two Inseperables, who tho 
being the principals in this comedy, certainly en
joyed it as much as the girls did. Hopes of reunit-jing the interior and exterior of the mattress were 
not even contemplated. Bick having regained his 
hat, and Schneck his gravity, the Twain trudged 
their weary way to Tech.
LINCOLN AND DARWIN CENTENNIAL.
The anniversaries of great men seldom come on 
the same days much less the centennials. Last 
Friday being the centennial of the birth of Lincoln
and Darwin, no school was held for either the night\or day classes. On Thursday afteinoon Prof. Doyle 
lectured on Lincoln to a large and appreciative 
audience in the new lecture hall in the Applied
Science Building. He touched on the early life and 
training of the man, and analyzed his character in 
such a way to make it plain, just what his wonder
ful personality was based upon. Closing with a most 
eloquent tribute to the man and his service to his 
country, he stated that Lincoln was the greatest 
American who had ever lived.
Prof. Keller was in a happy mood during his lec
ture on Charles Darwin. He reviewed the mans 
early training and life, and then briefly touched on 
the proper interpretation of his best known work 
The Descent of Man. In summing up Darwins 
place in the scientific world he said, As Abraham 
Lincoln deserves the credit of freeing the slaves, 
so Charles Darwin deserves the credit of freeing the 
minds of the people for advanced scientific thought.
All night classes were dismissed on Thursday 
night so that the members could attend lectures on 
the same subject given by Professors Follows and 
Willett, after which the 1912 smoker was held in the 
same halldee and Mandolin Club Concert, Carnegie Music 
Hall, February 19.
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES
COURT DERBY
TECH-N EGI E
Proper headwear for all occasions, 
Silk and Opera, Derbies, soft hats and 
caps. The best kinds of both foreign 
and domestic manufacture. Write for 
our style book.
TECH-MONT
tto Getting
Fifth and Wylie Seventh and Smithfield
\s%m\\\Nm\\\v%m\\mN\N\\v%vv\wwvvm%v\SN%\\N\\sv\NSS\mssvv\v\vv\

---------------------------------------------------

IOTHE TARTAN
I" h?'h?s t g|. Fill elN o.el,/1l eai/wn iw iw
ESTABLISHED IN 1867
 OUR SHOES ARE ALL LEATHER  MADE BY THE MOST FAMOUS MANUFACTURERS BOTH EAST AND WEST 
$6 50, $5.50, $5.00, $4.00, $3.50, $3.00
e/, 1 /ii . SWELL SHOD SHOES e1 S4.00 14i Fe*.
---------SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS---------
PERTINENT
AND
IMPERTINENT
A University of Washington student has under
taken to revise the Bible. Why not start on Richards 
Metallurgical calculations or Merrimans mechanics? 
We know of several very objectionable (to us) pass
ages in both these books.
Ketter has had Bim the Button Man backed off 
the map for the last couple of weeks.
Babe Tingley 08 Civil, paid the schools a short 
visit the first of the week. Work, if that is what he 
is doing must agree with Tingley.
Ed. Fleming ex 09, is now a benedict.
Yes, Mr. Anxious Enquirer you had better attend 
classes next Tuesday if you are any where near the 
dizzy brink.
Who has a full dinner pail? the working man.
Hurrah.
Hurrah.
Hurrah.
Such a little hat, Dill, why dont you get a merry 
widow, you yould look like an umbrella then.
Grable"They must have been feeding this eclaire, 
for it has some insides.
What the Professors Have Said.
Mr. HowerEvidence of joyous animal vigor. 
Mr. Doyle (in English)Perhaps Hiroki has 
stayed away to prepare for war.
Prof. KellarIn speaking of this we have an 
animal of less than ninety degrees.
GLEE AND MANDOLIN CLUBS.
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs are in excellent 
condition for their annual concert at Carnegie Hall 
on Friday evening. Rehearsals are being held every 
evening this week in order to polish off the rough 
edges and keep the boys in training for the big event.
The complete program was very successfully gone
through with at Sunday afternoons rehearsal. The 
musical directors were extremely pleased with the 
manner in which the affair was conducted, and were 
wearing broad smiles as they left the building in the 
pouring down rain.
All arrangements are complete for the coming 
event and record-breaking attendance is expected. 
The sale of seats is progressing rapidly and a keen 
interest is being shown by outsiders.
The new school song, Hail, Carnegie, written 
by Sprague, 09, is catchy and is calculated to arouse 
the enthusiasm of the audience.
The new Varsity banner is now being made and 
will be displayed for the first time.
This is to be a big Tech night and every student 
should turn out and help to make it one of the most 
successful affairs in the career of the Carnegie 
Technical Schools. .
Friday evening will be the first of a series of con
certs that will very likely last until the end of the 
school year.
There are two local concerts booked for next week, 
and one for the following week at Chester, W. Va.
Heretofore, it has been the custom for W. & J. 
to fill this engagement, but Koethens alertness has 
thrown the concert our way. The management has 
a few more deals agreed upon and will disclose the 
particulars when the contracts are signed.
On Saturday evening, February 6th, at 6.30, Ralph 
Clinton Davison, assistant instructor in Electric 
Wiring, was married to Miss Edna Frew, daughter, 
of Mrs. Alexander Frew, of Wheeling, W. Va. The 
wedding took place at the residence of Mr. and Mrs. 
James K. Hall, in Pleasant Valley, a fashionable 
suburb of Wheeling. The ceremony was performed 
in the presence of a few close friends and the imme
diate relatives of the bride and groom, by the Rev. 
W. A. Cook, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church 
Wheeling. The bride was attended by Miss Sue X. 
Swift, while Mr. Hugh A. Calderwood acted as best 
man.
Immediately after the ceremony the wedding din
ner was served, following which the happy couple 
made their escape amid the customary shower cf 
rice. They have taken up their residence at 4267 
Fifth avenue, where they will be at home to their 
friends. He modestly refrained from making a gen
eral announcement of his approaching matrimonial 
venture which therefore came as a surprise to fel
low members of faculty and his numerous friends in 
the Schools.
Mr. Davison is back at work in the Electric Wiring 
Department.
\

---------------------------------------------------

THE TA RTAN
soacKgeeesci
I APPLIED DESIGN 
)Xe:ec8^^ce2
By the time this account reaches the hands of the 
readers, the last remains of the fracas of last week 
will have disappeared, and things have taken on a 
more natural appearance. It is clearly the time for 
meditation upon such subjects as have been laid 
upon the shelf or pigeonholed for the time being. 
The most prominent among such is the adoption of 
some regular method of defining and enforcing 
student discipline, as outlined by the Director over 
a week ago. Enough time has passed to give the 
matter all the time to be thought over, and it is 
clearly time to do something. Let the class presi
dents call a meting to discuss the plan, and then 
appoint or elect a committee of men who' know 
what has, and is being done in other colleges to 
draw up the Senate Constitution for adoption by the 
School of Applied Design.
The last hours of Charette week were, as usual, 
spectacular. Everyone who expected to finish at 
the first of the week had the drawing on the wagon 
at five oclock. Gilkinson deserves the tin medal 
for working the longest, as he was busy on the 
problem until a half hour before the last box was 
nailed up.
The Decorators had a grand moving of their quarters last Saturday, and are now rece'ving visitors 
in their new apartments over the architectural draw
ing room. Freehand Drawing came over from the 
basement of the Institute and is now held in the 
room left vacant by the Decorators, so that there 
will no longer be such a good excuse for being late 
at class, as My hat blew over the bridge on the way 
over here.
Lipecott is a victim of scarlet fever, and is not 
expected to be out for some time.
M. M. C. S. JUNIOR PROM.
The Junior class of the Margaret Morrison school, 
held their annual Junior Prom, at the Rittenhouse, on 
last Friday evening. The floor was not too crowded 
and the music good. Every one enjoyed themselves 
to s'Jch an extent that the numerous encores , com
pelled the curtailing of the program. The girls have 
set a mark that the boys will find hard to beat.
o*9* 
*
^r\eE>est Store
Forbes and Atwood Sts. 
OAKLANDTHEOAKLNDA SNK VAE IGRUU CMNP
!? 4 pairs to a box-quaranteed to
O wear 3 months without darning
* Colors, Black, Black with White Fet, Navy Blue, Tau  y and Grey. _ AS New pairs for any that wear out before the time. j,
 THEYRE GUARANTEED. 
8sT. 1hS.?
COLLARS
I
STEVENSON AND FORIiES STREETS
Glee and Mandolin Club Concert, Carnegie Music
Hall, February 19.
S Bell Phone 2943 Grant P. & A. Phone 148 Main M
o.*0vo%oso\o*o*ov:*osov>\o\oxov0%o%0>
 BRACE BROS.
*
C Th.?S?Sg 
C 4?Sg ??T.?Sg
$ Pittsburg, Pa.
M" 'in vIi*ow udlpd*w my$ 8
DAKYA
QALLZn
ICA CKACV
CT YNHK 
DNCICL 
CSSCIKD
36G8 Forbes DtR

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools
HEEREN BROS.& CO.MOTOTNG JETELS&8 and SILVERSMITHS
s??S?. 'hCC.D I?.. TF?" T. ?CDs1s g1"
We are the Makers of the Carnegie Tech School Pins
NINETEEN-TWELVE
ceoecec03ecscececeo8O0cececececec6O8C8cecec03ec8oeo0CC8cec8O8^c8ceoEcC
In the one thousand one hundred and twenty first 
room, of the four hundred and thirty fourth building, 
on Fifth aveune, may be found a man, a woman and 
a boy. However, close examination will disclose 
only a commercial and economical relation between 
them. For this man is William Bailey McCreery, the 
woman is his stenographer, and the boy his Mer
cury. In other words, McCreery is an officer of the 
Carnegie Steel Co., handling the correspondence of 
the Armor Plate and Vault Department of this big 
concern.
Bill Bailey McCreery is a native of Pittsburg, 
when he was eight years of age, his family moved to 
the vicinity of Jacksonville, Florida, and resided there 
six years.
We next find Mac employed by the Carnegie Steel 
Co., in the Homestead works. After gaining ex
perience in various departments for some time he 
was promoted to the downtown office, where he 
has for several years occupied a responsible position.
- McCreery is a bright energetic chap, who, while 
not over exuberent, is yet one of the boys. All that 
is necessary to bring out his good points is to culti
vate his acquaintance a bit.
As evidence of the high regard in which he is 
held by his class mates, he was elected to the office 
of class president by an overwhelming majority at 
the begining of this term, and we have cause to congartulate ourselves on our choice, for witness the 
fine piece of oratory he eleminited on the memorable 
occasion of the Stunt First commonly known as a 
Smoker.
Just as another evidence of his universal popu
larity, the following incident of his early school life 
is submitted:
During his stay in Florida, he went to school at 
Oakland, under a teacher of the type known as a 
Country Cracker. This teacher (female) was very 
fond of Willie and found great delight in taking him 
on her lap and gently patting his long curls. On 
some occasions she would even bequeath him the 
sum of five cents for the purpose of purchasing candy.
So one day he came home to mamma with the 
great news that there were dandy bananas down at 
the grocery store. Now fruit was very scarce in 
this location and this news was acclaimed writh great 
joy by his mamma, who at once set out to purchase 
some. But instead of dandy bananas she found 
only candy ones.
Last Thursday evening, the much talked of 
Smoker, was run off the reel. The tobacco was good, 
every one had one pipe, and a great many two, and 
several spoiled their nights rest with pie.
In the excitment of departing, one man bit off 
about three inches of clay pipe, and just recollect
ed himself when it was about half way down his 
throat.
The meeting was opened by the president Mr. 
McCreery, with a neat little speach advising the 
boys to get together and never forget yer frens. 
Director Hamerschlag give us a resum of his 
tennis experience. Mr. Leeds went over the old 
story ($6,000$1,500=$4,500) and Mr. Connley gave 
us some just ripes Christmas.
The antics of a bunch of would-be hockey players 
were eloquitly described by Mr. Holl.
A pantomim entitled The Automatic Statue was 
given by Messrs. Hoffman, Stewart, Finch and 
Mimam, and was well received by the audience.
Mr. Kinsley gave us two well rendered trombone 
solos, and the orchestra furnished the music for the 
remainder of the program. The Glee club did very 
well for its first public performance, and will, no 
doubt, store up a little more ginger for their perfor
mance next Friday evening. On the whole, the 
Smoker was a success and a neat little sum was real
ized to decrease that appalling remainder.
If you wish a subscription to any engineering pub= 
lication ft can be gotten through The 
Tartan at student rates.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
NEW METHOD OF DEPOSITING COPPER UPON 
GLASS.
A new method of depositing copper upon glass has 
recently been discovered by an English investigator. 
A mixture of 1 part of freshly distilled phenylhydrazine and 2 parts of. water is heated until the solution 
is clear. A warm solution of cupric hydroxide in 
ammonia is then added (made by precipitating sul
phate of copper by potash, washing and dissolving 
in ammonia). The cupric hydroxide is reduced to 
cuprous hydroxide with evolution of nitrogen gas.
A hot, 10 per cent, solution of caustic potash is 
then added until a slight precipitate of cuprous hy
droxide takes place. If the solution, in this condi
tion, is brought in contact with a clean glass surface, 
bright deposit of copper forms upon it. This is thin 
and perflectly reflecting.
The copper thus deposited is washed after an hour 
or so with water, then with alcohol, and finally with 
ether, in order to dry it without rupture. It is then 
coated with lacquer or varnish.Brass World.
AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY.
The next meeting of the American Chemical So
ciety will be held at the Carnegie Technical Schools, 
Schenley Park, Thursday, February 18, at 8 P. M.
Mr. R. S. Perry, of Philadelphia, Pa., will deliver a 
lecture on Paint coatings to protect structural iron 
and steel.
Mr. Perry is President of the Harrison Bros. Paint 
and Cemical Works, and is chairman of the scien
tific section of the National Association of Paint 
Manufacturers, having in charge the scientific re
searches on paints now being carried on under the 
auspices of the association.
The meeting will be preceded by a dinner at the 
University Club at 6 P. M.
Glee and Mandolin Club Concert, Carnegie Music 
Hall, February 19.
MHO CLUB.
The regular meeting of the Mho Club was held in 
the Science Building, Friday evening, Feb. 5, 1909.
Aftr the regular business a light luncheon was 
served, consisting of coffee and sandwiches. The 
coffee wras made by the new electrolytic process, 
which proved to be a huge success and has been 
heartily recommended by Mr. Denton for installa
tion at the Commons.
i I am the only dry cleaner in Oakland that 
i* does his own work. I guarantee you satisfacv tion. See SHUMAN at 3911 Forbes Street.&His customers are pleased.
I SCHENLEY FARMS I
FIFTH AVE. BELLEFI ELD AVE.
FINE RESIDENCE PROPERTY
For prices and terms apply 
ROOM 1411 FARMERS BANK BUILDING*
*WELL PRESSED IS WELL DRESSED O%
I Liberty Cleaning & Pressing Co.
301 South Craig StreetO
FOR EXPERTSENGINEERS, ARCHITECTS, 
DRAUGHTSMEN  EXPERTS OR STUDENTS
Should get acquainted with the resources of supply 
for all Drawing and Artists Materials offered 
by this houseKurtz, Langbein & Swartz
606 Wood St., 6th Ave.
$ 2Monogram School Stationery, gold or in any ^
As +^ color, can be had from Mitchell, Soph. Mining,
 v0 or Johnson, Soph. Electrical, for 50c per quire. +
0 
/
Cr PHILLIPS & MANNING
d STATIONERS pj
^ MAGAZINES POST CARDS 
3702 Forbes Street &V% CIGARS TOBACCO
V<\0V:>\*V>**V>V>\0V:>V:>V>V>V:AC>\<A0V:*
I R. VV. MEDICK I
MEATS
0
* CHOICE 
g
^ Both Phones 
\O\O\0%OXO%O*O\D'\0\0X0\O*O%D\O\OX0Sd
HOME DRESSED 
POULTRY
AND Cj

3804 Forbes Street $
**fff**
**
g1h?.1 Th.S4 TD?.?4
Leslie Kime, MaN,oe^-
----------All work guaranteed----------

---------------------------------------------------

uTHE TARTAN
TECH BOYS TAKE NOTICE! 
NIFTY HEAVY TAN SHOES $4.00 AND $5.00
6027 Penn STOEBENERS6222 Frankstown EAST END
NEW METAL FOR THE SHEET METAL 
WORKER.
A new metal which, to speak conservatively, 
promises much to the sheet metal worker, has been 
produced under the name Monel Metal, by the 
American Sheet & Tin Plate Company, Pittsburgh. 
So far as the work in sheet metal is concerned, 
particularly the roofer, the metal is of special inter
est as a product meeting the requirements of copper 
as a roofing material without the shortcomings of 
that metal. It is composed roughly of 72 per cent, 
nickel, 1 y2 per cent, iron and the remainder copper, 
and has shown a remarkable resistance to acid or 
other corrosion, which bespeaks the high degree of 
resistance to weather conditions needed in a roof. 
It has the correspondingly important property, par
ticularly as compared with copper, of showing rela
tively smaller expansion and contraction changes, so 
that the matter of taking care of changes in the 
length of tlje sheets for different outside tempera
tures is not a problem. It possesses a high degree 
of ducitility and flexibility, so that it can be form
ed up to suitable shapes and bent into such 
locks as go, for example, with the standing seam 
roofing, and it can readily be soldered and admits of 
the use of a killed acid as a flux, another detail of 
practical importance. In appearance it looks not 
unlike sheet zinc, and while a little tougher to cut 
than sheet copper, it does not, writh good snips, show 
the characteristic burrs ox-, edges commonly obtain
able when handling zinc.
The secret of the properties and possibilities of 
Monel Metal seem to lie in the content of the ore as 
it is found in nature, the combination of the ele
ments appearing to give it the resistance to corro
sion, a high degree of tensile strength, considerable 
ductility and flexibility, which means ease of work
ing and relatively small expansion and contraction 
changes with changes in temperature. The Monel 
Metal occurs in the ores, which are found in Canada, 
as a natural alloy of nickel and copper, which re
quires only the removal of some of its iron to be 
refined into the commercial product. Whereas 
nickel itself, as a pure metal, is relatively expensive,
gCS?vg kTIT. |C
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting
JAMES B. S.PE & CO.
North Side, Pittsburg, Pa.
GOOD THINGS TO EAT ,
at the Pure Food Stores of
GEO, K, STEVENSON  CO.
Sixth Avenue 
Down Town
Higland and Center 
East End
\o\o\o.\o%o%ov:vo%o%ov:\o\o\o%o^o%o%o
 9/Tc1
'oMi/o ?id*? ien ?on a waAo 
a*f Nawwa?o an no 1??s 
'TS'?Sg" 1i Bad/w all 
no ndNo"
4'+4,+'+H'+"M"Mti+4,+',+',M*O4H%
1 W. S. BROWN !
^ 523 Wood St., Pittsburg ^
* GUNS, CUTLERY, ATHLETIC GOODS, * 
O OF ALL KINDS. A COMPLETE LINE 8 H OF ICE AND ROLLER SKATES. $
:;:X$MXX$M$MX$XXXXXXXX$M$M$
*i ARTISTS MATERIAL
o 108 Sixth Street ( Bessemer Bldg.) Pittsburg. ^
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
MR KR ALLINTT CNVPCEY
* PICTURE FRAMING *
2 AMATUER DEVELOPING AND PRINTING  
ft CUT FLOWERS ft
 C'" 0uP grC1s g8 114 Atwood Street, bet. Fifth and Forbes 3
The Standard of Excellence
raBi*alfvw
Candies and Ice Cream Soda Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice CreamFancy BoxesBaskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH ST. PITTSBURG, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
owing to the difficulty of isolating it, the treatment 
of this ore means merely the removal of impurities 
and the reduction of the iron to a percentage not 
over, say iy2 per cent, of the entire product, when 
the result is Monel Metal.
The foregoing statements are intended to outline 
its place as a rolled produce in sheet metal form, it 
also possesses the quality of being readily cast, and 
in a cast form it possesses a high degree of strength. 
For example, it is stated that, whereas, American 
standard steel casting range from 60,000 pounds per 
square inch tensile strength in soft castings, to 85,- 
000 pounds for hard castings, and whereas the 
Government specifications for manganese bronze 
castings require 60,000 pounds tensile strength, and 
in nickel steel castings 85,000 pounds, the Monel 
Metal castings have shown a tensile strength for 
what are known as grades B, C and D of 85,000, 75,-000 and 70,000 pounds per square inch, respectively. 
Its strength when rolled, raises to 108,750 pounds 
tensile strength per square inch.
Some of the principal products to be obtained can 
be mentioned as forms of gutter, standing seam 
roofing, flat seam roofing, ridge rolls, etc.
BASKET-BALL AVERAGES.
If any one doubts that our basket-ball team has 
been playing ball let them look over the dopes given 
below. Tomost any impartial observer it would 
appear that say the least we havent been among 
the also rans in the season up to date.
Individual Scores of the League Games.
Players Games Goals Fouls Points
Brown  ..................... 2 12 14 38
Harrison ........................ 3 24 8 56
Dolan ............................. 3 13 26
Leety ............................. 2 5 10
Agnew ........................... 3 4 8
Williams ....................... 2 1 2
Casey ............................. 2 1 2
Buhl ............................... 1 0 0
yTech43 Opponents55
Z A T E K
CHOCOLATE
BILLETS
URG -doBow iM Midl /a--of 
wNiin AolAon wildf BiL
Bilano ni no -ie*fED?1 
T I|?W?1 ch
PAEEDYLYCEIC CLNCNLCTA CNR, PITTDMHKGL
PdPdPdPhWkyPSPyPSetnPdPyPdPdPdPSPoPdPd
A, G, SPALDING I BROS, %oThe Largest Manufacturers in the ^ 
World of Implements & Uniforms X,
8_^for-------- *
BASE BALL, LAWN TENNIS, 
Basket Ball, Golf, Track and 
Field Sports
Spaldings New Spring and Summer 1909 Catalogue, complete edition, 144 pages; atout 2000 Illustrations. Copy mailed to any address on receipt of iequest.
T" D" gITC.D t 'S|g"
439 Wood Street Pittsburg, Pa.
Sor the real TACL Penants of Carnegie Plaid
 BeekenTech" Pillows
*** 4
SIGN PAINTERS.
The sign painters last evening, gave another of the 
little entertainments which serve to keep them so 
well acquainted. As usual the refreshment end was 
by no means the weak feature of the evenings enter
tainment.
Come out everyone for the championship basket 
ball game to=morrow night. This game may decide 
the winner.

---------------------------------------------------

i6THE TARTAN
:*moog
C. EISNIER I
TS1Cg1C? c|SCg1
FRESH CUT FLOWERS 
AND FLORAL DESIGNS
SPECIALTIES
'" t '"
ij Young Mens attention is hereby di0 rected to the first new Spring Suitsnew 
g modelsdifferent, snappy things$15.00
$ to $32.50.
RUGO Io** TAo*eo ?awn ?*f
Bell Phone 82 Ililand
fCPARNER
4* The largest stock on hand at all times 0
T is the one from which to select. 
T The prices are reasonable and conT sistent with the best quality. 
H Y
C T" u" grC1s m
4* &
J 345 SIXTH AVENUE PITTSBURG, PA. *
A
X>c ~5Toto. IS23.o-w
that we print tnore books than any firm in the East End ?........................................
X> ~Z~om SCno'Tr
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaflets elicit the admiration oflovers of Fine Printing ?.......................................................
X>o Z"o-u33:2a.OT*r
that we are prompt, and that an order for a dollar receives as much care and attention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to .
SPHE cSs
6117*6119 Kirkwood Street
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
* 
 * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
,A***!
i
?VALLNE ECTINECL MCEK
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
'a'a'a'a+a'a"aI+a'f+a'a+a+aa!a%0 g81 8 ?
 Iy8i I II ?
CAPITAL$4,000,000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
RESOURCES OVER 41 MILLIONS
BOGGS & BUHL 
t
JHE RITTENHOUSE
BALL ROOM HAS A 
CUSHIONED FLOOR 
PERFECT for DANCING
PRIVATE DINING ROOM
FOR CLASS DINNERS 
IS A DREAM
Kuhns in the Rittenhouse
f o* *0 * XoS *b * * o * 
<* oS'X  * * o ?
BEST EQUIPMENT
Highest 
Grade 
Work
Prompt 
Service
Both PhonesEstablished 1893
s<i\ot\o\<>\os<>\ci\o%o\o\<>soso\osososK>\o.
f .0
* EVERYTHING IN $
I SHOES I
S
We make a specialty of a Storm tan in *
several styles for young men at $4.00. 4
* 
f LCECE & MCKAK DLNA CNR I
4* O
o 435-37 WOOD STREET *
