Volume 80, Number 4 H jLJfl i Ifl IM #"^4 1 Pittsburgh, PA 15213rTA Tfc'TA 1VTOctober 2, 1979 H| W^Bk I I Carnegie-Mellon University
Shakespeare'prof dies
Austin Wright, who served on the facul
ty here for 45 years died on Monday, 
September 24, in Bedford County Memo
rial Hospital.
He was born in Bedford on May 20, 
1904, the son of the late Hon. J. Anson 
and Anna (Colvin) Wright. A graduate of 
Bedford High School, he graduated in 
1925 from Haverford College, where he 
was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and awarded 
High Honors in English. He received the 
degree of Master of Arts (1926) and that 
of Doctor of Philosophy (1931) from 
Harvard University.
He served on the faculty of CarnegieMellon University for forty-five years, 
including five as Assistant to the President 
and twenty-two as headof the Department 
of English. Early in his career he also 
taught for one year at Haverford College, 
on leave from Carnegie. He retired to 
Bedford in 1973.
Dr. Wrights colleagues dedicated to him 
in 1972 Number Twelve in the Carnegie 
Series in English, entitled In Honor of 
Austin Wright. The following is a para
graph from the introduction to that 
volume:
Austin Wrights accomplishments 
as head of the English Department de
rived from high standards, broad 
knqwledge, and firm judgement; from 
a deep and sensitive commitment to 
literature, the people who write it, 
teach it, read it; from an unwavering 
sense of duty and an unflagging giv
ing of himself to its fulfillment; from 
a heart kindly, compassionate, deeply 
humble. They derived, too, from hid 
embodying the qualities he sought 
within his department. An internation
ally recognized scholar for his work 
in both the eighteenth and nineteenth 
century, he was as well a happy and 
graceful critic for intramural publi
cations. And from first to last he has 
been a teacher much admired, much 
loved.
He was the author of six books and con
tributed over a hundred play reviews, 
book reviews, and articles on literary and 
historical topics to periodicals. For many 
years, he was listed in Whos Who in 
America. Earle Swank, Dean of Student 
Affairs and former colleague of Wrights, 
commented that Wright was the only to 
x teach Shakespeare here for a forty year
period, and anyone who had him for a 
Shakespeare class remembers the exper
ience vividly.
A campus service for Wright will be 
held in Hunt Botanical Library on Octo
ber 13 at 1PM. The participants in the 
service have not yet been decided.
He is survived by his wife, the former 
Gertrude B. Colwell; by a daughter, Mrs. 
David N. Leenher, of Boca Raton, Florida; 
and by a sister, Mrs. Willard S. Summers, 
of Bedford. He was preceded in death 
by a brother, Judge J. Covin Wright.
22 year 
Drama head dies
Henry Boettcher, head of the depart
ment of drama for 22 years, died on 
Friday, September 21.
Boettcher, age 76, died of a heart attack 
in his home in Palm Springs, California, 
where he moved shortly after retiring in 
1972. *
During his tenure as department head 
from 1936 to 1958, Boettcher increased 
the reputation of the drama department on 
a national scale. Most noted for his sense 
of artistry and discipline in the theatre, he 
was well-known for his innovative produc
tions of Shakespeares plays and was influentir? in reshaping the academic pro
grams in the College of Fine Arts. From 
1958 to 1972, Boettcher continued 
teaching here as a drama professor.
Boettcher received a MA in English 
from the University of Chicago in 1928, 
a MFA from Yale University Drama 
School in 1935, and was on thr faculty 
of Allegheny College in Meadville, Penn
sylvania, prior to joining the CMU faculty. 
Some of his more prominent students 
include Jack Klugman, Sada Thompson, 
Nancy Marchand, Lester Rawlins, William 
Ball, Ellis Rabb, Danny Franks, Gino 
Conte, Jules Fisher, George Peppard and 
Arthur Kennedy.
Boettcher is survived by a sister, Mrs. 
Howard Feldman, of Greenwich, 
Connecticut.
A memorial service was held for 
Boettcher on Wednesday, September 26 
in the Kresge Theater.
oo x a
Students gather around the Sigma Alpha Epsilon house after an early morning explosion shattered 
many of the house's windows. The explosion was a result of an unexpectedly powerful volcanic 
eruption" during the annual "Dante's Inferno" party. There were no serious injuries.
Food service changes
By Pete Levin
After four weeks of painstaking change 
and criticism, has the Food Service finally 
settled down to normal operation?
1 think so! said John Eichmuller, 
Director of Food Service. Weve certainly 
done a lot of refining over the last few 
w.eks, but I think the rt 'jients will find 
a much moe improved food Service as 
opposed to the beginning of the year, 
he continued.
During the first two weeks of school, 
Food Service came under criticism because 
of long cashier lines and seemingly high 
prices for necessary items such as milk or 
orange juice.
Lines now are down to half or less 
than what they were, explained 
Eichmuller, mostly because of the 
changes we made in the check-out pro
cedure and also because students realize 
that we cant accommodate everyone at 
the same time. Obviously some people are 
coming to eat 15 minutes before or after 
they used to. However, prices are a more 
sensitive subject.
Partially as a result of student input,
and partially as a result of some other 
comments we have received, there are 
going to be price changes this week. The 
Salad Bar is going to have groups of less 
expensive toppings and more expensive 
toppings. This will be an advantage to both 
Food Service and the student, Eichmuller 
said. Other changes include reductions for 
milk, orange juice and yogurt.
Also, order-taking at the Bakery-Deli 
will be more efficient because of the 
addition of another sandwich table, an 
electric button changer and a new com
munication system with the kitchen. The 
Deli Annex is adding a new reach-in cooler 
because of its unexpected volume; pictures 
of the managers will be posted so students 
know who to talk to if a problem should 
arise. And finally, with the help of Stu
dents Promotion Coordinator, Sherrie 
Dean, a new advertising campaign is taking 
place.
We are making a lot of big changes, 
concluded Eichmuller, but I think they 
are all for the best, and students will notice 
a more responsive and efficient Food 
Service.
Cheating discussed on WRCT
by L. Vernon Valentine
Last Wednesday night at 8:00 pm, 
Chas Sislen, manager of WRCT-FM, 
hosted an hour long open forum entitled 
Cheating: The Alternative to Studying. 
Guests included Cliff Davidson, Civil 
Engineering professor; Mary Ann ONan, 
Economics Professor and head of the 
college of Administration and Management 
Science Department; Hugh D. Young, Prof. 
Of Physics; and Jean Pellegrini, Editor-in-Chief of the Tartan. Sislen and guests 
discussed the causes and possible solutions 
of cheating.
The general concensus of the panel 
was that cheating ranges from misrepre
senting someone elses ideas (plagerism) 
to stealing an exam from a professor before 
the test. The panel agreed that reasons for 
cheating are varied and complex. As 
Davidson said There are three major 
reasons why cheating occurs: Faults of the 
system, faults of the instructor and faults 
of the student. Davidson identified the
primary fault of the system as being an 
evaluation process which promotes 
competition and pressure to get good 
grades. He identified faults of the instruc
tor as providing temptation," such as 
assigning homework from previous years, 
giving multiple choice exams, and having 
close seating arrangements during exams. 
The fault of the student, he said, is simply 
yielding to cheating. As Pellegrini 
suggested, students become involved with 
cheating and can find no way out. 
Guests discussed moral and practical 
implications of cheating, each noting the 
significance of high academic pressure 
applied here at CMU. Reinforcing the idea 
of cheating as a way of life, one student 
called in and indicated how cheating had 
advanced him this far and would probably 
help him in the future. Strong arguments 
were brou^it up on a moral level. ONan 
described cheating as a denial of every
thing a university stands for. The procant inu#d on page 21Physics professor Hugh Young responds to a question posed by Chas Sisten on WRCT's open 
forum 'Chesting: The Alternative to Studying."

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Why cheat?
It is time once again for the annual review of cheating. 
Year after year the problem is reviewed, but precious 
little is said or done about the causes. For the gentle 
readers who may not know, the principle cause is not the 
desire to do well, but to do better than everyone else. 
This pressure is carefully nurtured by professors, parents, 
administrators and students alike.
Students have come to believe that no matter what 
they are told, grades are what decide salaries and graduate 
school admissions. Rumors about the large number of 
people that will fail are widespread. Students put pres
sure on themselves to out-perform their peers. They are 
constantly reminded that "dropping out is not an 
alternative if they want a non-menial job. As a result, 
students see themselves as rats in a race, and feel it is 
acceptable to behave like them.
The administration and faculty of CMU encourage 
an atmosphere of intense competition. The workload 
of a CMU student is massive. It is a commonplace occur
ence to have two major tests and several homework 
assignments due on the same day. Many people say they 
exist from one assignment to the next, one weekend to 
the next, living for the time the exam is over only to 
start right in on the next one. The pace doesn t let the 
student stop and take a look at what (s)he is doing or why.
We are not trying to paint a gloomy picture of college 
ethics, but we are trying to explain why people cheat. 
Cheating and pressures to cheat aren't new; however, 
their recent increase should serve as a warning as to how 
students view the changing relationship between their 
grades and their careers. Stricter enforcement of rules 
alone isn't the answer. Maybe we should ask . . if 
academic ethics may not be in trouble because the eco
nomic and political system is improperly exploiting the 
educational system by making students jump through a 
series of pre-professional hoops instead of caring seriously 
about educational goals. /New York Times, Tues., May 
22, 1979]
Neil Adler 
Managing Editor
CHEATING
TOULRA
letters
You can't get "just one" 
Editor:
In your September 18 cover 
story entitled Jobs and Salaries 
to Grads are Up, you made 
reference to the following data:
What is known about our most 
recent graduates is that on the 
average there were 179 offers for 
every 100 graduates seeking em
ployment. Electrical engineers 
had the highest average with 46 
job offers for ever ten students, 
and H&SS had the lowest with 
*\only  one job offer per person. 
H&SS showed the biggest im
provement as far as job place
ment is concerned by nearly 
doubling its offer to graduateTARTAN
Volume 80 
Number 4 
October 2, 1979
Editor-in-Chief: Jean Pellegrini
News Editor: 
Features Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Sports Editor:
Managing Editors:
Business Manager: 
Production Manager:
Doug Kirsop 
Lynn Epstein 
Alan Spero 
Parry Colosimo
Neil Adler 
Brian Byrnes 
Karen Stevens 
MichaeKBrzustowicz
Associate Editor: Mory Brenner 
Magazine Editor: Susan Borg 
Photography Editor: Robert Zusman 
Art Director: Tom Megalis
News: Beth Arden. Asst. Editor; Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Tim Bardwell, Jim Bost, Dave Boyce, Sue Brillamn, Jeanette 
Bryan, Anne Cesnick, Stan Cieslak, Linda Dickerson. Carol Dietrich, Ed Frankenbery, Chris Gebhardt, Andre Jenkins, 
Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Pete Levin, Chris Magyai. Donald Mawson, Kwasi Mensah Deb Morgas, Debbie Nir, Elliot 
Ohlberg, Judy Ohlin, Andy Ragan, Dena Santoro. Sheryl Sazim, Scott Schaffer, Andy Sicree, Molly Silver, Ben Smith. 
David Seet, Vernon Valentine, Lisa Vaughan, Jane Weisbacher, Sue Wilkin, Elise Yoder, Eddy Zayas.
Features: Jeanne Abmayr. Lisa Andruzzi. Luis Ball, Beth Bangor. Valerie Brandt, Art Benjamin. Michael Conroy, Chris 
Gebhart, Bob Gleason, Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Kathy Krummert. David Land. Kwasi Mensah, David Mills, Sheryl 
Sazima, Stu Seidman.
Entertainment : Kate Bertrand, theater editor; Joan Livitski, staff coordinator; Ed Slosky, events editor; Scott Alburger, 
Bob Henry, Dave Kirby, Paul Mendler, Aline Naters, Debbie Nir. Ted Smits.
Sports: Dave Wills, assistant editor; Fran Arsht, Ronnie Ben-Avon, Dave Brandwene. Pat Crump, Bernie Ivanshultz, 
Frank Pugliano, Dave Radack, Scott Schatter, Bob Share, Thomas Smith, Lesley Weiser, Craig Woolheater.
Production. Suzanne Chan, Ken Kulak, George Lyons, Janet Martin, Gretchen Miller,Smita Pai, Nancy Richman, Anne 
Rogers. Ken Salem, Lynn Sokol, Ed Zayas.
Photography: Chuck Chidekel, Larry Duffy, Andy Edelman, Marcy Lubitz, Michael Melnick, Skip Stong.
Art -Tom Hart, assistant director; Robert Conroy, Andy Epstein,Tina Klem, C.C. Otto.
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Gov
ernment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices. Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour answering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pimburgh, PA 15206.
ratio. This statistic is of parti
cular significance because in the 
nation as "a whole, jobs in the 
humanities were down 14% last 
year. 
The above ratios are misleading 
since your writer inadvertently 
based them upon placement office 
registrants and not on the number 
of students actually reporting 
offers. For example, equating 
the number of students who have 
provided us with usable salary 
data, the average number of offers 
for 1979 H&SS seniors is over two 
per student.
Some additional data might 
add still more to the optimism of 
H&SS undergraduates, however. 
While, as you say, H&SS students 
reported only one job offer 
per person, many others (23% of 
the 1978 class) enter a broad 
range of graduate and professional 
school programs. By including 
these students among the number 
of those placed, the only 
one figure quoted above would 
surely increase. A number of 
other students sought and found 
employment but failed to provide 
usable salary data. The tone of 
your article underplays the 
market-ability of an H&SS degree 
from CMU. A more accurate 
index would be the optimism 
emerging from the Career Ser
vices and Placement Offices 
annual report for 1978-1979:
Measured on July 1, 1979, the 
number of offers reported by 
(H&SS) students was 86.2% 
higher than that recorded on the 
comparable date in 1978. Nearly 
all of these positions were with 
firms in the private sector. Based 
upon comments by employers, 
it is reasonable to infer that the 
H&SS college is gaining recog
nition as a source of profes
sionally and liberally prepared 
graduates who are equipped with 
many commonly sought career 
entry skills. 
J. Dennis Ryan 
Director, Career Placements
Show yourselves!
Editor:
It amazes me that Biology 
students are so disinterested in the 
functioning of their department. 
Even when given the opportunity 
to help effect changes within the 
department they reject it. For two 
years the Biology SAC (Student 
Advisory Committee) has been 
trying to organize students into a 
functional and influential body. 
But due to the complete lack of 
interest on the students behalf we 
have not been able to accomplish 
much of anything.
For the first time the Biology 
Department has an administration 
which is willing to cooperate with 
the SAC. But unless more stu
dents become interested what 
good will this increased desire to 
cooperate do? At the first meeting 
of this year ten seniors, four 
juniors and two freshmen at
tended. Eight Faculty members 
attended this meeting, including 
the Head and Assistant Head of 
the department. Student attend
ance was an embarrasment. Fort
unately the students who did 
attend were willing tc spend time 
working on the SAC charter and 
a few future plans. It was decided 
to postpone the elections because 
the students felt that it would be 
unfair to elect representatives 
from so small a group.
The SAC has scheduled an 
election meeting for October 3. 
I wonder how many sophomores 
will show up this time?
Gary R. Fabian 
Senior, Biology
Milk is a natural!
Editor:
Tam writing this letter in reply 
to the letter of Mr. Knapp two 
weeks ago. In that letter, Mr. 
Knapp said It is, however doubt
ful that Food Service could get 
that great a discount from the 
supermarket price, since most 
stores use milk as a loss leader to 
attract business to higher profit

---------------------------------------------------

View fromWarner Hall
opinions
Painful change is necessary for progress
Richard L. Van Horn, Vice Presi
dent for management, writes 
about change and progress at 
CMU.
Many of our familiar sayings 
live on despite the fact that they 
are trite because they also tend to 
be true. For example, the old say
ing there is no such thing as a 
free lunch has taken on new 
meaning for thousands of ValiDine card holders who were long 
sheltered from painful awareness 
of real costs by the contract sys
tem . The saying and the Vali-Dine 
trauma also illustrate a broader 
truth. Most changes, including 
some that truly are improvements, 
bring an associated set of costs 
and disruptions. However much 
we appreciate and desire the benifits of changes, most of us react to 
the costs and disruptions with 
feelings that range from mild an
noyance to blazing outrage.
A historian viewing the recent 
years at CMU might well conclude
that it has been a time of excep
tional change. Not a single dean 
remains from the era of President 
Stever and only a few department 
heads. Modem language is european culture and the Social Sci
ence of H&SS at long last exists. 
Musical Education has given way 
to opera and musical theatre. Bi
ology has demonstrated that their 
research facilities can grow even 
more rapidly than the most agile 
bacteria.
As most faculty and many stu
dents know all too well, virtually 
every academic department has 
changed in significant ways. Nor 
does the change stop with acedemic departments. The financial 
deficits of 1972 have changed into 
solid black, if still uncomfortably 
tight, budgets. In relative terms, 
the housekeeping budget is onehalf the 1972 level, a casualty of 
the need for increased support in 
academic areas. Housing cam
paigns of the early 1970s to lure
a few students back to campus 
have been replaced by programs 
to increase capacity from 1800 
students to the present 2800. The 
list goes on almost without end.
Few, if any, of these changes 
have occurred without pain to 
some and often to many people, 
including student, faculty and ad
ministration. Frequently the costs 
of a change fall on one group 
while the benefits go to a differ
ent group, an unhappy situation 
at best. For example, the ValiDine system clearly benefits those 
students who eat lightly, while the 
costs fall on the students who eat 
the most. I believe the new system 
is both fairer and more sensible 
than its predecessor, but such an 
appeal to abstract virtue offers lit
tle comfort to the hungry.
To no ones surprise, many of 
the changes of recent years have 
generated opposition, sometimes 
loyal and sometimes downright
vicious. Even the most fervent 
supporters of a particular change 
understand and expect opposi
tion. Often the opposition leads 
to a deeper analysis of the issues 
and eventually to better solutions.
One might conclude at this 
point that everything works as it 
should in an intellectual commu
nity. Unfortunatly, I am not quite 
so optimistic. The system, thus 
far at least, works; but it also 
shows signs of wearing down. A 
small university that stresses ex
cellence must lead, it cannot af
ford the luxury of coasting along 
until others have tested new direc
tions. Some changes actually are 
improvements, while others are 
experiments that fall short or are 
plain wrong. In the absence of a 
perfect world, it is important to 
keep trying in as an intelligent and 
thoughtful manner as possible. 
Change is fragile; it is always 
easier and safer to add band-aids
Warnke defended for not acting hawkish
by Roger Harris
Judging from the stern face, 
white-hair, law executive profile, 
his former position as assistant 
secretary of defense for inter
national security affairs, and the 
holder of the Pentagons third 
ranking position during the 
Johnson administration, you 
might guess that Paul Warnke is a 
conservative hawk. You would be 
wrong.
Paul Warnke, director of the 
Arms Control and Disarmament 
Agency (ACDA) from March 
1977 to October 1978, is an 
avowed nuclear arms reduction
ist. Warnkes philosophy is that 
the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. have
reached essential parity. Trans
lated, essential parity means 
that both countries maintain the 
ability to destroy the other re
gardless of who fires their missiles 
first, therefore additional weapons 
are unnecessary and unwieldly.
The pacifistic path has been 
advocated by Warnke for quite a 
long time. He has for over ten 
years felt that the Vietnam War 
was a policy mistake for which 
every official in the federal gov
ernment at that time bore some 
responsibility.
Warnke was one of the arch
itects of the Johnson proposal 
to halt the bombing of North 
Vietnam in 1967. He assiduously
lobbied Congress for legislation 
to stop hostilities in Southeast 
Asia after Cambodia was invaded 
by American forces in May of 
1970. Warnke also is partly re
sponsible for the assemblage of 
sensitive data of the American 
involvement in Southeast Asia, 
commonly known as the Pent
agon Papers. '
What makes Paul Wamke 
important is his past history, his 
input into the negotiations and 
policy of the SALT II treaty, 
his philosophy, and the oppos
ition to him. He is currently the 
leading eastern establishment, 
opponent of nuclear arms pro
liferation.
His opponents feel that 
Warnke, due to his philosophy on 
arms and his past history, may 
have bargained away U.S. strategic 
security. To the contrary, Warnke 
feels that he negotiated a treaty 
that biases the United States.
Warnkes confirmed by the 
Senate by a vote of 58 Senators 
for him and 40 Senators against 
him, which is and ominous nine 
votes short of the two-thirds 
majority vote required to ratify 
the SALT II treaty.
If the Senate fails to ratify 
the SALT II treaty, it may have 
dire consequences on the future 
of U.S.-Soviet relations. A Senate 
rejection of the treaty will also
and a minor tune up to whatever 
we are doing now.
My greatest worries are that we 
are creating an environment at 
CMU that further will discourage 
attempts to change to the detri
ment of us all. We have experi
enced personal attacks on change 
advocaters. We have listened to a 
few angry voices and ignored 
many quiet ones. We have worried 
more about avoiding complaints 
or criticism than achieving signifi
cant goals. We protect the interest 
of small groups at the expense of 
the university. I am not surprised 
by any of these behaviors, only 
concerned. I hope that in our an
noyance and indignation over the 
latest change that affects us, each 
of us, before taking drastic action, 
can at least consider the issue in a 
university context where thought
ful changes oriented to university 
goals are essential even though 
some changes (and goals) in retro
spect will be judged wrong.
be a rejection of Wamkes phil
osophy.
A Senate approval of the SALT
II treaty will be a direct test at 
Warnkes philosophy. If he b 
correct then the mindless pursuit 
of weapons superiority will begit 
to abate. If Wamke is incorrect 
then the United States might end 
up on the worst side of a con
flagration.
The future of America relies 
on what takes place in the Senate 
regarding the SALT II treaty. Paul 
Wamke helped shape the SALT II 
treaty and for this reason Paul 
Warnke is an important face 
among his contemporaries.
more tetter
items.
I have spent 3 years of my life 
in the supermarket business. I 
assure you, Mr. Knapp, that milk 
and other dairy items are very 
high profit when compared to 
canned and dry goods. While I 
have no documentation to back 
up my point, I invite you to talk 
to any supermarket manager in 
the area.
The average supermarket price 
for milk is around $1.90 per 
gallon. There is no preparation in 
milk. The only cost is refrigerated 
storage which isnt any more ex
pensive than in a supermarket. 
Yet we pay $0.30 for a oz 
glass. This is:
($0.30/6.50 oz) X (128 oz/1 gal) 
= $5.91 per gallon of milk.
I find it very hard not to be
lieve that when it comes to milk, 
the patrons of Food Service are 
being robbed blind.
Joel Fisch 
Senior
Mechanical Engineering
Weight-watching made easy 
Editor:
The United States has yielded a 
generation that runs on processed 
sugar, additives, preservatives, and
generally too much of everything. 
I include myself among the mil
lions that are victims of the life
style; I am twenty pounds over
weight. I tried exercise, natural 
foods, transcendental meditation. 
But in this land of unnecessary ex
cess, I could not lose a single 
pound. I did not have the will 
power to lose weight on my own. 
Now I dont need willpower, I 
have the Vali-Dine System.
The Vali-Dine System moni
tors your weight and well-being 
by steering you away from nonnutritious foods. The system does 
this by raising the price of every
thing.
Mary Jane Smith (letter in 
September 11) is a Vali-Dine cri
tic who complained about joining 
Plan C and spending a whopping 
$25 a week for meals. She would 
realize her good fortune if she 
knew that a human being needs 
over $50 a week to eat three 
mea|s a day on campus. It is true, 
however, that not all the price in
creases are due to conscientious 
weight control. Much money was 
required for the new security sys
tem needed to guard the food loc
kers. In addition, Food Service 
has had to contend with the im
mense cost of putting its student 
personnel through exhaustive 
training and testing at the rigor
ous Food Service Training Insti
tute (FSTI), and increased over
head due to higher wages for the 
migrant Jello workers of the 
southwest.
But Food Service would not 
have increased prices to such ex
tremes unless they had our physi
cal fitness in mind. With this 
knowledge my friends and I have 
not found it difficult to adapt to 
the Vali-Dine diet. Fortunately, it 
is very easy to skip lunch; we just 
get on a cafeteria line at noon, 
and usually dont reach the cash
ier until dinnertime. Unable to af
ford any breakfast, we have 
learned to start the day with a 
glass of water and refreshing bowl 
of ice or, for those brisk winter 
mornings, a piping hot bowl of 
steam. For a snack we sometimes 
take advantage of the cafeterias 
free condiments and make our
selves a hearty broth of sugar, salt 
and pepper. Otherwise, we depend 
on an intravenous dextrose solu
tion and vitamin pills.
But, as with any strict diet, I 
am frequently tempted to stray 
from the Vali-Dine System. I
sometimes dream of unlimited 
seconds at Morewood, but that 
would leave enough money from 
my daily allowance for a lunch 
consisting of five pats of butter. I 
almost bought orange juice con
centrate at $2.20 a gallon, but I 
decided to remain faithful and 
buy Kiltie Cafe orange juice at 
$5.60 a gallon. I even catch my
self considering less expensive 
places to eat, like the Olive 
Branch, the Candlelight Room, 
Christophers or Top of the 
Triangle.
Besides weight control and 
body tone, the Vali-Dine System 
has other advantages. Less elec
tricity is used at night because 
students have only enough energy 
to stay awake for six hours each 
day. Also, less custodial work is 
necessary because students need 
to go to the bathroom only once a 
month.
All this goes to show that in 
this nation of insatiable consump
tion there is a place where any 
weight problem can be cured. All 
you have to do is stick to a plan in 
the Vali-Dine System and put 
yourself in the hands of Food Ser
vice, whose motto is Be Healthy, 
Not Wealthy. I personally have
lost weight with the Vali-Dine 
System, and if all goes well, by 
the end of the year I should weigh 
nothing at all.
Steven Connelly
Once upon a time ... 
Editor:
I am writing in reply to last 
weeks opinion against the draft. 
Mr. Skrobala should open his 
eyes. He wants this nation to lay 
down its arms in the hope that 
other nations will do the same. Is 
he serious?! Does he perhaps live 
with Snow White and the Seven 
Dwarves? If this country disband
ed its armed forces, we would be 
attacked before the servicemen 
even got home! And even if, as he 
says, this country could not be 
conquered by a foreign power, Id 
rather not have to fight at all, 
thank you. And the best way to 
avoid war is to keep an adequate 
defensive force ready at all times.
The answer to the armed 
forces problem is not to disband 
the army, nor does a volunteer 
system seem to work. Much as I 
abhor discipline, I would be will
ing to submit to the draft if 1 
could be assured that it would be 
used only to Jteep up a force

---------------------------------------------------

"IMPORTANT
PERMANENT I.D. CARD
more letters
adequate for th defense of this 
country. (Mr. Skrobala seems to 
think that the government is just 
itching to start another war. 
Cmon, give them credit for 
learning something from 
Vietnam!)
Perhaps the answer would be 
to appoint a nonmilitary commit
tee (with military advisors) to 
determine just what constitutes an 
adequate defensive force (and 
make the findings available to the 
public), and make sure that the 
military does not overstep the 
boundaries thus set. Mr. Skrobala 
asks: If the others do not lay 
down their arms , .do we really 
have anything to lose? You bet 
we do! We could lose the very 
freedom youre so hell-bent on 
keeping.
John Candine 
H&SS
Well thanks a lot!
Edtior:
In response to Paul Krams un
fair accusations and sarcastic com
ments directed towards Activities 
Boards Thursday Film Arts, and 
the projectionists, I must say: Is 
that all the thanks we get?. 
Were not responsible for the qual
ity of the print, the soundtrack, 
or the wholeness of the print. We 
order the film and what we get, 
we show. If there are any pro
blems, we complain to the dis
tributor and they give us some 
sort of compensation.
However,- we are responsible 
for bringing unusual films and 
films of artistic merit to the 
campus^and for Kram to see. 
Its not an easy job and it takes a 
lot of volunteered time to run 
it smoothly.
Thanks for letting me know
that the LANCELOT DU LAC 
print was not whole. Next time, 
please relay the information 
through our mailbox behind the 
Information Desk.
Anyone who is interested in 
learning about films or in select
ing the films for next semesters 
series is welcome to join our 
committee. The next meeting will 
be announced in the TARTAN 
and at the Information Desk.
Linda Dawes 
Thursday Film Arts 
Chairperson
Cutting Frames
Editor:
Poor Paul Kram. Its too bad 
he is so paranoid that he believes 
Activities Board is trying to rip 
him off by showing film parts. 
To begin with, why should he be
lieve that the projectionists chop 
up the movies? Does he see them 
walking around with scissors stic
king out of their back pockets?
After being on the film com
mittee for almost four years, we 
dont recall ever seeing him show 
up at the meetings. If he has no
ticed that other movies have been 
edited, why didnt he show up 
at a meeting like other respect
able concerned students and tell 
us directly. See you at the next 
meeting, Paul?
Elaine Smith, Creative Writing 
Larry Gaechter, Architecture
Down in Front!
Editor:
Friday night at the movies on 
campus left me with a feeling of 
dismay. The film, An Unmarried 
Woman, is a sensitive and moving 
story. Unfortunately, certain 
CMU students are too immature 
to appreciate or accept such an
emotion-packed movie. During 
the whole film, a majority of the 
audience was laughing and making 
rude and unnecessary remarks. 
These people made enjoying, 
let alone listening to, the film 
practically impossible and an un
pleasant experience. Why remain 
at a movie if you feel that it is not 
of any value to you?
I hate to think that monitoring 
during the movies needs to be en
forced, but until some college 
students grow up, I feel that the 
troublemakers should not be al
lowed to destroy others rights 
to enjoying a film.
Ellen Grossman
You're on your own, kid! 
Editor:
After attending the Career 
Placement workshop concerning 
campus interviews, I am once 
again disgusted by their attitude 
toward H&SS graduating seniors.
During his opening remarks, 
Dennis Ryan said there is life af
ter a liberal arts education. If 
there is, its not through any help 
from him, since he also called us 
students of the College of Hu
manities and Social Studies. 
How long will it take the Place
ment office to accept us for what 
we are; people with individual 
marketable skills who want work 
as much as the engineers and AMS 
majors do. The writers, psycholo
gists, ect., unless we go out and 
find our own interviews, are 
doomed to Career Services plac
ing us with insurance companies 
or graduate schools. I dont want 
to sell insurance, and Im tired of 
going to school. Internships are 
giving one practical work experi
ence now, which will give me a 
head start when I look for a job.
But what about other H&SS stu
dents?
Shortly after graduation, Im 
sure CMU will be getting in touch 
with all the new alumni asking 
for donations to dear, old Tech. 
When they call me, Ill be deligh
ted to tell them to shove it. They 
gave me no help in looking for a 
job, and Ill be damned if Im go
ing to give them anything from 
my paychecks.
name withheld upon request
Light on a subject
Editor:
The administrations recent 
effort to reduce energy consump
tion is commendable. Their re
sponse to the energy crisis has 
been prompt; it hows effort by 
them to respond to todays 
needs. This is reflected by light
ing system changes in several 
buildings. However, the security 
of the campus community in 
respect to these changes should 
be of greater concern.
The situtation in Science and 
Doherty Halls in regard to light
ing should be carefully studied.At 
CMU, an urban university, lighting 
is most important to the security 
of the campus. For example, 
the lighting in the staircase 
between Science and Doherty 
Halls is insufficient: lights that 
should be turned on are some 
times carelessly left off. This is an 
acute security problem. Poor 
working conditions are also noted 
due to lighting system changes, 
as is the case with the E&S 
library.
Certainly a university with 
technical specialists could create 
some system beneficial to all 
concerned. This, along with pro
per maintenance, could cope
with the energy crisis, But please, 
dont leave us in the dark.
Ed Slosky
Keep Up 
with 
News 
Round 
Up 
every 
week 
in the
T 
A 
R 
T 
A 
N
D. CARDS 
AND
VALI DINE CONTRACT CARDS 
MAY BE PICKED UP 
ON THE FOLLOWING DAYS
A THRU H  WEDNESDAY 10-3-79
----------p  THURSDAY 10-4-79
Q THRU Z  FRIDAY 10-5-79
9 AM UNTIL 5 PM 
ROOM 11 SKIBO

---------------------------------------------------

October 2, 1979-TARTAN-Page 5
news roundup
by Dave Boyce 
Threatened by Soviet Brigade in Cuba
High levels talks between the U.S. and 
the Soviet Union have failed thus far to 
alleviate the new tensions created by the 
discovery last month of Soviet combat 
troops in Cuba. U.S. Administration 
officials link SALTapproval in the 
Senate to a demonstrable change in 
the combat capability of the Soviet 
brigade. In further retaliation, the 
U.S. may step up military activities 
around the world and lean more favor
ably toward China in trade and other 
policy matters. The Soviets call the 
U.S. concern artificial and allege that 
U.S. politicians are exploiting the issue 
to their own advantage.
Isreal and Syria Gash Over South 
Lebanon
Isreali pilots in American-made F-15s 
shot down four Syrian MIG-2 Is last week 
over Beirut. Isreal has denied reports that 
it lost two jets in the fray. U.S. officials 
are attempting to strengthen the fragile 
and often meaningless, cease-fire agreed 
to last year.
Russian/Chinese Conference Begins
China and Russia opened a new series 
of talks possibly aimed at furthering 
peaceful coexistence as neighbors and 
as world powers. Western experts 
agree that it is too early to tell what 
will happen since even the parties involved 
are uncertain of outcomes.
Carter Forces Gearing Up in Florida
Carter aides are working feverishly to 
defeat a draft-Kennedy movement in 
Florida. Carter, himself has been empha
sizing his ability to handle himself in 
emergency situations, - alluding to 
Kennedys reaction at Chappaquidick. 
The Florida Democrats will elect dele
gates to a state convention the 13th 
of this month. Perhaps because of
early setbacks in Dade county and other 
areas, Sen. Kennedy has called the election 
inconsequential.
Consumer Prices Rise 1.1 Percent
For the 7th consecutive month, the 
nations consumer prices rose by more than
1 percent. The August figure is attributed 
to increased costs for energy and housing. 
Food prices (meat, poultry, fish and eggs) 
dropped 3.6 percent, continuing the recent 
trend.
Anti-Nuclear Forces Rally to Protest
Nearly 200,000 people gathered at 
Battery Park, New York City last week 
to peacefully protest the use of nuclear 
power for wartime as well as peacetime 
purposes. Jane Fonda, Tom Hayden 
and Ralph Nader spoke while Graham 
Nash, Pete Seeger, Jackson Browne and 
others sang bringing to a close a weeklong 
series of benefit concerts. Upon receiving 
the proposals to stop use of nuclear power, 
President Carter reportedly told them to 
come back when they had a feasible plan.
Beaver Valley No. 1 Back On Line
The 800 megawatt nuclear power plant 
resumed operation last week after a tem
porary shutdown due to an instrumen
tation problem. Beaver Valley No. 1 
is located about 30 miles northwest of 
Pittsburgh. A task force of the Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission will visit this 
power station and all others in the US 
to evaluate emergency planning proce
dures.
GMs Electric Car Available in 10 Years.
The Electrovette, powered by a zincnickel oxide battery, will carry two pas
sengers plus 100 pounds of luggage and 
have a city cruising distance of 70 miles 
before recharge. The US Postal Service 
and others now use zinc-nickel oxide 
power in hundreds of experimental 
vehicles.
The Financial Aid Office has just received information and applications for the 
Post  Newsweek Stations Scholarship. Interested students must meet the following 
criteria to be eligible:
1)
2)
3)
4)
is or will be classified as a junior when the scholarship commences 
is within the top 25% of his/her class scholastically
is majoring in a course of study that will prepare one for management career in 
broadcasting such as business management, marketing, television production, 
journalism or electronic engineering 
is in need of financial assistance
Applications for the 79-80 academic year must be received prior to October 31 for 
consideration.
The grants will be awarded for the final two years of a students enrollment. Grants 
will average $1,000 per academic year.
Applications and additional information may be obtained by contacting Ann Ruddy, 
Financial Aid, Warner Hall. ___________________________________________
BIOLOGY STUDENTS
The student advisory committee 
of your department will be having 
its election meeting on October 3 
(that's today) at 5:00 PM in Skibo 
Room 12. Yes you will still have time 
to eat dinner after the meeting. 
Freshmen, sophomores, juniors and 
seniors are all invited to attend. 
Refreshments will be served.
SDC renovates office
_  . *en Kulal< room and pool table damage from over theThe Student Dormitory Council (SDC) summer wjn be coriected m the neai f.
held their second meeting on September turg
26, at 7:00 in the Wherret Room. President
Jim Balsom announced that John EichmulThe following appropriations were made 
ler, director of Food Services, would be at during the meeting:
the October 3rd SDC meeting, and that
Dean Swank would speak to the Council Darkroom air conditioner:............$100
on October 10. Game equipment (poolcues,
_ _  billiard balls, ping-pong netsSecretary Bret Fennell announced that , ,,, A fT.  * ,rw, . A . and paddles, etc.):.......................$350Liz Caruthers, one of the Doherty Apart. ,.' x___ A ^ , , ., Hill Antenna adjustment:.............$100ments SDC representatives, had resigned _ , . . * . r, _ _ .,, , Doherty and MG antennas :. . . . $1500and her place would be filled by the com. w ,* * c n I nH a 4 new T.V.S (Boss, Mudge,mon representative of C and D towers. A  , ,_ w , ___U W i c* r u Doherty, McGill):.......................$1500petition by Melanie Fetrow for a More. _ , .r , __ J A . . . . Homecoming Band :.....................$600wood Representative-at-Large position was SDC offlce Renovations , 12g4 90
submitted and accepted by the Council.
,  ^  SDC also hired Mark Knapo a work-Mindie Jo Synder, Vice-President for ^ student> tQ ^ asprope. 3mana.
the Hill Area, announced that SDC is outggr for ^ Morewood ^ Msr., re
fitting its new office with a desk, typewrisibmties wfl] indude ,r md
ter, storage cabinet, and other assorted furmaintainence of SDC equipmen
nishings. The costs for these renovations Vending announced iU Coke
has already been allocated in SDCs 1979- md Qmdy machines had been ; M ^
80 budget. Hammerschlag on a trial basi fPitchA petition signed by residents of the ^or(^ chairperson of the VerommitMargaret Morrison Apartments called for tee, added the warning that ichines
proper restitution by Housing for violation damaged in any way, * will be
of Article 1 of the Housing contract (the promptly removed. He also met ed that
, . , , . .. a change machine is going ir i Donner,section which guarantees certain furnish,  , . . ... ....Au s A t /* , and that an ice machine si still a t ability,mgs to each residence). The students feel  _ , . ,, . . , . For those students cunous about i se-that some form of cash reimbursement is , ,. r ^x , mester s disappearance of the Dom mi-appropnate, as many are still without desks r.i . . .\ , , r . hi.  crowave oven, it was revealed that theand bookcases. Their petition will be lm., _ , , :  now resides m Margaret Mornsion, and r ,imediately forwarded to Gary Dalton, di16 *. it was removed due to students cook.; 2rector of Housmg. ,. . , . .xnon-vendmg machine food m it.
Rich Hall, chairperson of Renovations, The Council meeting was adjourned at
announced that the Welsh Lounge was 8:20. The next SDC meeting will be Wedopen and a new T.V. had been placed in nesday, October 3rd, in the Wherret Room,
Henderson. He also mentioned that darkSkibo, and all are invited.
ATTENTION!
STUDENT SENATE SEATS 
OPEN
THERE ARE VACANCIES IN:
CIT, MIS and SUPA
1 Seat in each school. 
To qualify, pick up and complete a 
petition available at the Skibo In
formation Desk. It must be returned 
no later than midnight, Saturday, Oc
tober 6th. 
Full-time students in these colleges 
ONLY may run in this election.
Ralph M. Sherman 
Rules Committee 
Chairperson
GET INVOLVED!!!
V
v
t

---------------------------------------------------

.....................
' ^ i* t
GRADUATE MANAGEMENT ADMISSION TEST (GMAT)
October 5, 1979 
January 4,1980 
February 22,1980 
June 20,1980
LAW SCHOOL APTITUDE TEST (LSAT)
Application Deadlines. 
September 13,1979 
November 5, 1979 
January 3,1980 
March 20,1980 
May 29,1980
PROFESSIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE CAREER EXAMINATIONS (PACE)
Information available in the Office of Career Services and Placement in January, 1980. 
FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICER EXAMINATION
News Staff 
Dossier Staff
meetings today 
7 PM Skibo 50 
you're invited
$4.95
If puzzles and paradoxes intrigue you, then flex your brain with this en
tertaining mengerie of over 200 mindbending logical puzzles, riddles, 
and diversions that challenge your reasoning powers and common sense. 
Professor Smullyan spins a logical labyrinth of complex and challenging 
problems as he delves into some of the deepest paradoxes of logic and 
set theory, including Godel s revolutionary theorem of undecidability. 
Throughout, detailed solutions are provided for each problem.
"The most original, most profound, and most humorous collection of 
recreational logic and math problems ever written . .
 Martin Gardner-emu boolsstopetrtvia question
#2. Juice from apples is cider. What is juice from pears called?
ANSWER. 
Name _Address
^Mlllllllltlllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^ 
s =VOTE!!
5 =
ELECTIONS FOR
1 E
MR. VARSITY 
MISS VARSITYS EEEE =
IN THE SKIBO LOBBY 
FROM 10 AM TO 6 PM
| WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER TO ( 
I THURSDA Y, OCTOBER 7 7
WiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiimiiitnimHttiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiP
Page 6TARTANOctober 2, 1979 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Application Deadline: Test Date:
October 19,1979 December 1,1979
Infomational booklets and applications available in the Office of Career Services and 
Placement WH 19. _______ ______________________________
a I  jI m f   wm  mm CAMPUS CONVENIENCErT Afc'1V CHHEr1 INGOU LRi
- -V ' %XXSSX3S3S3eXSSXX%X3SXSSS3aeS$SXXSXSSSSSSX%XX%3SSXSSSSXSX3S3SXXXSSSXS^^
CAMPUS STORESCORNER
THISTLE photos to be taken
A photographer from the Merin Studios 
will be taking group portraits during the 
week of October 8 for the 1980 THISTLE. 
Because of the large number of groups to 
be photographed, no changes in the por
trait schedule can be made. The THISTLE 
tried to have the group shots coincide with 
each organizations regular meeting time.
Each group is asked to be assembled five
minutes prior to the scheduled portrait 
time and to have ready a summary of the 
groups plans and its purpose for the 
coming year, for inclusion in the yearbook. 
No group can be included in the book 
without providing this information.
The THISTLE thanks each group in ad
vance for its cooperation. The schedule of 
group photographs is as follows:
Time 
4:00 PM 
4:20 PM 
4:40 PM 
5:00 PM 
5:20 PM 
5:40 PM 
6:20 PM 
6:40 PM 
7:00 PM 
7:20 PM 
7:40 PM 
8:00 PM 
8:20 PM 
8:40 PM 
9:00 PM
Mon. Oct. 8 
(Skibo Lobby)
Am. Society of Mechanical 
Engineers 
Society of Physics Students 
Soc. of Auto. Engineers 
Chorus **********
**********
Tues. Oct. 9 
(Ballroom) 
Tech House 
Astronomy Club 
Ski Club 
Fencing 
Jazz Ensemble 
University Graphics **********
Forbes St. Gallery - (at the 
Gallery)
Senate 
Philosophy Club 
Chess Club 
Mortar Board 
Lambda Sigma 
Club Francophone
Peer Help 
Spirit 
Ultimate Frisbee
Am. Society of Civil Engineers 
Am. Society of Chem. Engineers 
Hockey Club 
Liberals Club
U.F.O.

---------------------------------------------------

Damianos and Pedone renovations: a benchmark of quality
Above, the courtyard of the new Margaret Morrison Apartments is pictured with it's circular brick 
centerpiece, soon to sport an 8" Red Maple.
Social Science Department
A much less controversial, and much 
less known project that D & P recently 
completed are new offices for the two 
year old Department of Social Sciences 
of H&SS. To house this new department 
the second floor of Porter Hall was chosen. 
Formerly on this site had been a number 
of classrooms, dating back to October, 
1905 when the Carnegie Technical School 
opened for its first day of classes. While 
Pedone did an excellent job in creating new 
office space he was very disappointed that 
this was the space chosen for the office 
suite. There are very few original . Horn - 
bostel (Henry Hornbostel was the original 
campus architect) classroom spaces left. 
He felt that these classrooms should have 
been restored and that the offices could 
have been located in any existing poorly 
designed space, not in this 74 year old 
jewel.
In attacking the space he wanted to 
preserve the Hornbostel character of the 
building. To this end, where new arch
ways were cut into the brick walls the 
moulding was matched to the existing, and 
new bronze light fixtures were designed to 
evoke the spirit of the fixtures in the 
Baker Hall corridor. Finally, an original 
copper covered classroom door was re
stored to its original condition.
While the university had not talked with 
him about doing additional office reno
vations in Porter or Baker Halls, the Social 
Science layout and detailing sets an excel
lent prototype for the future.
Around CMU
by Stuart I. Seidman
After many years of neglect and disre
pair, the physical plant of Carnegie-Mellon 
University has recently been experiencing a 
rebirth. Over the last four years many class
rooms, lounges, lecture halls, and galleries 
on campus have been rebuilt, restored, and 
constructed. At the forefront of much of 
this work has been the architecture and 
interior design firm of Damianos and Pe
done.
I recently talked with Jim Pedone about 
much of the work that his firm has done 
on campus over the last four years. Pedone 
graduated from Carnegie Tech in 1960 
with a degree in Architecture. (Damianos 
graduated from Tech in 1956, also in 
Architecture). He expressed great satisfac
tion over having the opportunity to do 
design work on the CMU campus after hav
ing gone to school here two decades earlier. 
It has brought back a lot of good old re
minisces, Pedone said, adding that he had 
been on campus during the protest cere
mony at the dedication of Hunt Library. 
He continued that it is a comfortable 
sense, having the campus for a client.
Margaret Morrison Apts.
The first D & P project that I discussed 
with Pedone was the recently completed 
Margaret Morrison Apartments. This pro
ject has come under much criticism for
many construction deficiencies, but these 
should be separate from the design.
Pedone began work on the M.M. Apts 
during the summer of 1977 and in conjunc
tion with the University drew up the pro
gram for the 192 bed complex. He explain
ed that the University had expressed cer
tain goals that it wished to attain in the 
new student housing. At the head of the 
Universitys list was a design not based 
upon the traditional double loaded corri
dor. Pedone explained that corridors be
come a no mans land and become almost 
impossible to maintain. On campus we 
only have to look at E-Tower over recent 
years to see what he means.
The Universitys second criteria involved 
the schools desire for additional apartment 
type facilities. This would give students an 
alternative to off campus apartments. The 
university also desired the flexibility to be 
able to rent units to non-university people 
in case of a drop in demand for on-campus 
housing.
Upon approaching the new apartment 
complex the first thing that catches the eye 
is the free standing wall in front of the 
complex. Pedone is very pleased with the 
final effect of this wall explaining that it 
functions as a scale device to mitigate a 
very large, high facade. The wall also has 
another function, of giving a formal en
trance to the complex and to the hill
dorms. Pedone feels that the wall is the 
extention of the courtyard out to the 
street.
The courtyard is one of the most spe
cial features of the new compound. This 
space, surrounded on three sides by new 
buildings and McGill Hall on the fourth, 
is the heart of the complex. While Pedone 
said the courtyard had no relationship to 
the front of Morewood Gardens, he did 
mention that instead of a tree he would 
have preferred to build a fountain. Unfor
tunately, fountains tend to have maintainance problems not making it a practical 
solution. Instead of a fountain an 8 inch 
Red Maple will be planted. Another point 
discussed on the new dorm was that of
the interiors design intracies. There has 
been much student talk about what some 
residents call mood lighting in the living 
spaces. Pedone discounted this by explain
ing this isnt a dorm, its an apartment. 
He expanded by saying that he understood 
they were to be rented as semi-furnished 
apartments and that the students would be 
expected to fill in the missing furniture. 
The living room lights are service lights, 
intended to aid in finding a table lamp. In 
reference to the relatively plain interiors 
he commented that we did not want to 
put our stamp on the interior giving the 
student the opportunity to personalize the 
units.
Left is pictured the renovated lecture hall in DH 1212,a previously completed project by Damianos 
and Pedone.
Photos by Robert Zusman
Below, three resident students pose playfully on the wall outside of one of the new apartments in 
Margaret Morrison.
We ended our conversation by talking 
about the CMU campus in general. Pedone 
related that the people in Warner Hall have 
been extremely cooperative and extreme
ly sensitive and that he looks forward to 
doing additional work on campus.
At this time he has two personal pet 
projects that he would like to do. Pedones 
first priority is the restoration of the 
Mudge Mansion. As the many Mudge resi
dents know, the Mansion is rapidly deteri
orating. If action is not taken soon to save 
it, it could become irreparable. Pedones 
other idea is the concept of building 
portals over the main entrances to the 
campus. As it is now, a visitor is hard 
pressed to tell when he has entered the 
CMU campus. Upon passing under a portal, 
a passerby would know that this is CMU.
We also discussed the exterior of 
Science Hall and how it fits into the cam
pus plan. The primary feature on the out
side is the protruding Sch. 7500, which 
has the same dimensions as the bay con
taining DH2210, filling in a missing link on
the campus plan. He also wished to congradulate the person who specified the 
color of the concrete that makes up the 
outside of the building. Whoever speci
fied the concrete knew what he was do
ing, Pedone said, noting its almost perfect 
match to the brick of Doherty Hall.
Pedone commented that he was ex
cited about the appointment of Lou 
Sauer to be the new head of the Depart
ment of Architecture, and that after many 
years of treading water he feels that 
Sauer is going to alter the course of
architecture at CMU.
Pedone projects on campus have primar
ily been small, but they have greatly im
proved the atmosphere that students live 
in. Their projects have included: The 
Tartan Grill, D.H. 1212, Hewlett Gallery 
in C.F.A., Dept, of Social Sciences in 
Porter Hall, and Margaret Morrison Apart
ments. Pedones final conclusion was very 
simple, Everything weve done is a bench
mark of quality for the University to emu
late or abandon."

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-TARTAN-October 2, 1979
HELP CHEER 
THE TARTANS 
ON TO VICTORY
AND
CELEBRATE HOMECOMING 
WITH A BANG!!
TORCHLIGHT PARADE
Join the march to the IM Field 
9:30 p.m.
(Morewood Gardens Driveway)
BONFIRE
10:00 p.m.
(IM Field)
FIRE WORKS
(Funded by Activities Fee) 
10:30 p.m. 
(Stadium)
Join the TARTAN 1
News Staff 
TODAY!
IRON CITY
SCHUTZBUD
SCHMIDTS 
CHAMPALE STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ MALT 
BALLANTINE ALE MILLER LIGHT 
MICHELOB PABST 
MILLER COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE BUSCH
SCHLITZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MILLERS. COLT 45. MOLSON ALE. LOWENBRAU DARK 
STROHS. HEINEKEN LIGHT 
One different 16 oi 6 ok featured each *eek 
SCHLITZ  PABST 
SCHL1TZ MALT  STROHS * ROLLING ROCK WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVERTIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
 SPECIALTY ITEMS 
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVE0 TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES
--------------------- IMPORTS -----------------------
INC
BASS ALE England
 DORT HANSA Germany 
SAM MIGUEL Phdhpmes 
SPATENBRAU Germany 
ST PAUU GIRL Germany 
PILSNER URQUELL C*ech 
GUINESS STOUT Ireland 
DAS XX EQUIS Mexico
 WURZBURGER Germany 
HARP LAGER Ireland 
LOWENBRAU Germany 
O KEEFE ALE Canada 
DINKEL ACKER Germany 
TECATE Mexico 
ISENBECK W Germany 
IRYSTALL Italy
MACKESON EnglandVolume88 0,Volull8N bbbbbbb
3901 FORBES AV (OAKLAND) PGH PA 15213
KIRIN.
PERONI Italy 
RIGNES Norway 
BECKS Germany 
HOFBRAU Germany 
ZYWHEC Poland
 KRAKUS Poland
 SUPERIOR Mexico 
FOSI tRS Australia 
HEINEKEN Holland 
MOLSON ALE Canada 
PAULANER Germany 
GOSSER Austria 
TANKARD London
 UNION W Germany 
PALE ALE London 
DINKEL Germany
 WARFTEINEL Germany
Politics and Policy 
SALT opposition examined
by Bob Gleeson
SALT politics is quickly turning into a 
new version of The Price is Right. 
The contestant is Jimmy Carter and he 
has guessed well so far. He guessed that 
Congress wanted a 4% increase in the 
defense budget. He guessed that the 
Europeans wanted a 3% increase in NATO 
spending. He even guessed that the Senate 
wanted to spend $30 billion on the M-X 
missile system.
But when they opened the curtain to 
give him his prize, instead of having 67 
Senators behind it yelling Ratify!, 
out jumped 3,000 Russian soldiers smoking 
good Cuban cigars and yelling Nyet!
The artificial issue created by these 
soldiers, who have been there since 1962, 
lias roused emotions to the point that 
the real reasons which cause people to 
question the wisdom of SALT II have 
been smothered.
These real concerns are spelled out 
most carefully by Paul Warnke, one of 
the leading spokesmen for the SALT II 
Treaty. He puts them into 3 categories 
which I will review.
The first category includes the tradi
tional arms control opponents. These 
people oppose the very idea of the U. S. 
limiting its arms procurement in any way. 
They say we should take advantage of 
every temporary technical advantage, spare'
no cost, build every weapon, climb every 
mountain, and forge every stream. This 
group contains some national political 
figures (Barry Goldwater, for instance) along with many outrageously well-financed 
public and priyate lobby groups. Although 
their numbers are small, the money behind 
these right-wingers makes their voice 
very loud.
The second category is much larger. 
This group says that the U.S. should 
link the SALT II Treaty to Soviet 
actions in Africa, the Middle East, and 
other areas. They use SALT II as a carrot 
to entice the Soviets into behaving. 
This might make sense if the carrot was 
something unimportant to us. However, 
SALT II is not a reward to the Soviets.
This treaty addresses the most basic 
and vital security problems of this nation. 
The U.S. entered into the SALT talks 
to improve our security and SALT II 
succeeds in doing just that. The treaty 
is far too important to play games with. 
Realities of nuclear weapons are a basic 
issue of humanity and should be divorced 
entirely from day-to-day politics and 
diplomacy.
The third group says that SALT II is 
a sham because it does not go far enough. 
They ^peint to the M-X missile program 
(permitted under SALT II) and increases 
in defense spending as proof.
True supporters of arms control can 
sympathize with this criticism. But SALT
II embodies what is possible today. No 
other treaty can be negotiated under 
present conditions. It took seven long 
hard years to get this far. Why forfeit 
what has been gained already? SALT II 
continues the SALT Process which will 
yield SALT III, SALT IV, etc. These 
future treaties will deal with the remaining 
issues.
The importance of many issues can 
be measured by the degree of opposition
they spark and SALT is no exception. 
Indeed, SALT is the most important 
national security issue this nation has 
dealt with since World War Two. Its 
passage will be the most meaningful 
victory in that same period.
Unfortunately, the SALT debate has 
quickly become embedded at the center 
of the American political process. The 
effects of this debate will thus determine 
the immediate future direction of Amer
ican politics as well as American security. 
Victory on this issue may well be the 
best route to White House in 1980.
WRGTliirs only live radio dramas in Pittsburgh
by Susan Borg
Saturday, October 6, WRCT 
will be airing live radio dramas on a twice 
monthly schedule. These broadcasts will 
be the only locally produced radio dramas in Pittsburgh.
WRCT is working in cooperation with 
the Playwrights Workshop, taught in the 
drama department by Jim Rosenberg and 
Dave Ball. Playwrights can submit their
work and have it evaluated for production 
by the staff who will choose what they 
feel is the best.
Until now, the only outlet for aspir
ing playwrights on campus was Scotch 
n Soda, but these broadcasts will pro
vide a new forum. In addition, there is now 
an opportunity for drama students to 
work in an electronic medium.
These productions will be produced, 
directed and acted by a company of 
dramats. Jon Hayden, the producer engi
neer of the shows, first conceived of the 
idea as a freshman; however, until now 
it had never gotten off the ground. He 
is excited that it is finally happening 
and is already thinking about investi
gating sources outside of WRCT for future 
outlets.
The first production,The Morning o 
the Day They Did It, by Russel Worthman, will be aired at 6 PM on Saturday, 
October 6. It will also be on at another 
time during the same week. Call WRCT for 
details.

---------------------------------------------------

I
Activities Board Lectures Committee presents
JANE FONDA and TOM HAYDEN
Skibo Ballroom
\ ' \
Monday October 8, 1979  2 P.M.
Tickets available at the Skibo Informtion Desk, Wed. Oct. 3
Open to campus community only.
$ .50 w/CMU Student I.D.
$1.00 w/CMU Faculty/Staff I.D.
Limit one ticket per I.D.
ID and Ticket will be checked at the door.
Funded by Activities Fee
j
ENERGY NEEDS IN THE 1980's
Mon. Oct. 8 Skibo Ballroom - 4 pm
Nuclear Engineers
SANDRA KEIFER 
AND 
DR. LINN DRAPER
Ms. Kiefer is a self-employed energy consultant who specializes in 
nuclear power issues.
Dr. Draper is Technical Assistant to the chairman of the board of
Gulf States Utilities Company.
Sponsored by: The Edison Electric Institute 
Program sponsored by: Campus Program Planning
1 <....  11 nniii

---------------------------------------------------

mt
SENIOR PORTRAITS 
TO BE TAKEN
OCTOBER 8-12
Sign up now for 
appointment
Skibo Information Desk
GRAND OPENING
"SUIT YOURSELF"
FACTORY DISTRIBUTOR OUTLET
Stop in for the best selection 
in the newest men s suits.
 Men s Suits and Sport Coats
Latest Styles  Famous Brands
BELOW WHOLESALE
Add 10% discount for students
3710 FORBES
2nd floor above Cindys621-6371
Page 10TARTANOctober 2, 1979
CMU talks about...
Some people think cheating is okay, as 
long as they dont get caught/
Mike Butensky, Math #2
There should be an unwritten code of 
honor, but it isnt upheld. Theres too 
much competiton, and people feel they 
have to cheat.
Elaine Mon teverde, Chem. 80
Im not really lor it. It wont help you 
in the long run. You 11 always rely on 
other peoples answers.
Ed Swidel, Music 83
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A coring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
BIOLOGY STUDENTS
The student advisory committee 
of your department will be having 
its election meeting on October 3 
(that's today) at 5:00 PM in Skibo 
Room 12. Yes you will still have time 
to eat dinner after the meeting. 
Freshmen, sophomores, juniors and 
seniors are all invited to attend. 
Refreshments will be served.
Students cheating.
Its too bad that it seems to be a viable 
option for people. It indicates a lack of self 
confidence and self-respect.
Kathy Mead, Art 8U
It depends on whether you get caught or 
not.  Mike Scarani, Arch.83
It depends on the person. If your pride 
and dignity allow you to cheat, then you 
should be willing to suffer the conse
quences. It would degrade me if what 1 
submit in class was not what I really 
know.' Mario Shacolas, AMS 82
Photos by Robert Zisman______

---------------------------------------------------

October 2, 1979-TARTAN-Page 11
Spotlight Oil . . . SDC
by Paul Karmin
The Student Dorm Council (SDC) is one 
of the most influential student bodies on 
campus. It provides the undergraduate pop
ulation with a powerful resource to take 
part in influencing campus and student ac
tivities.
The SDC is structured on a parliamen
tary basis with 66 members representing all 
the undergraduate residential areas and a 
six person executive board. The current 
president is Jim Balsom, a junior, and the 
two vice-presidents are Mindie Jo Snyder 
and Steve Fulton, whose constituencies 
consist of the Hill and Morewood, respec
tively. There is also a treasurer, a secretary, 
and a parliamentarian.
The primary functions of the SDC are 
threefold. It serves as a student-administration link. It enhances the social life, 
and it provides a place for students to 
sound off about their gripes and have a 
reasonable chance of getting action taken.
To accomplish its goals the SDC is com
posed of the representative council as well 
as twelve standing and two Ad-hoc com
mittees dealing with such diverse subjects 
as housing, food service, social life, films, 
intramurals, spring carnival, etc... It has 
available a $42,000 budget this year of 
which approximately S9600 is earmarked 
for the Residents Supplementary Activi
ties Fund, a resource available to students 
at large who wish to organize a dorm party, 
take a trip, etc.... Money is obtained 
through your local SDC representative who
duke
Graduate School 
of Business Administration
A representative of the Graduate 
School of Business Administration 
will be on campus Friday, October 
12, to discuss the Duke MBA 
Program. Interested students may 
obtain further information by contactng the Office of Career Services 
& Placement..
petitions the general council for the sub
sidy. In other words, the SDC will help you 
throw a party, see the World Series or do 
whatever is of interest to the members of 
a particular dormitory (for information, 
see your local representative).
In its duties as advisory body to die 
administration, the SDC has the opportuni
ty to review policy decisions and recom
mend changes before final action is taken. 
For example, Vali-Dine was discussed and 
approved by the SDC during debate last 
year. Also, the housing contract was re
cently amended due to the efforts of SIX. 
Last year students were being held liable 
for damage occurring in the dormitories 
over Christmas break even though they 
werent allowed to remain in their rooms 
during this period. This ananchronism was 
deleted primarily due to the work of SDC.
Equally important, if special difficulties 
are encountered in residential life, the SDC 
may be able to provide relief. For instance, 
last year the trash collection trucks were 
coming at 4:00 AM and waking students. A 
petition was organized via the SDC and the 
administration subsequently instructed the 
sanitation service to limit its hours of col
lection to 7:00 AM-11:00 PM on pain of 
being removed by security .Guidelines on 
the areas of jurisdiction and/or the proper 
procedures to follow are awailable from 
your representative.
According to Mindie, the most impor
tant goal yet to be accomplished is full 
student involvment. As she puts it, To be 
successful, it is crucial that dormitory stuMillie Torme performed in the Skibo Ballroom on
dents take an active interest in the func
tioning of the residence halls in order to 
establish a learning, growing, on-campus 
community .Lackadaisical recent election 
returns reveal that this has yet to be ac
complished. However, Jim envisions the 
SDC becoming very prominent over the 
next 1-2 years.
For those students interested in taking 
part in the representative council, meetings 
take place on Wednesdays at 7:00 PM in
Friday, Sept. 28.
the Wherret Room in Skibo. Non-voting 
spectators may take part in discussion and 
participate on committees. They may make 
proposals through their local representa
tives.
Also, the SDC maintains an office in 
room 55, Skibo, ext. 2114. Business hours 
are kept on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, 
and Friday. Phone calls are encouraged to 
inquire about college or dormitory affairs 
or to just get involved.
Transfer student's experience is positive
by Tom Smith
Transfer students. To me they always 
seemed to be somewhat unique. I would 
hear a transfer student talking about life 
on another campus, and it sounded like 
he was talking about life on another 
planet. I would ask myself, How different 
can college life really be elsewhere? At 
that time, I did not know the answer to 
that question.
I was attending St. Francis College, a
small school in the obscure town of 
Loretto, Pennsylvania. Because Loretto 
meant the Gates of Hell, the Franciscan 
monks of the 1800s thought building their 
school in that town would prevent the 
devil from doing his dirty work.
By the time my freshman year had 
passed, I had gotten to know just about 
every face on campus. The total enrollment 
was only 1300. College life was not really 
too bad, even though the main sources of
* DO YOU HAVE A CHEVROLET CH EVETTE THA11S NOT ALL CLEANED UP YET?i ntWrgh,wro
THINK IOWN IT. "
200 No-Charge Miles
per (Extra miles 20C each)
dy Chevette or similar
Available 8:00 a m Friday til 
5:00 p.m. Monday
You pay for gas and return car 
to renting location Rate nondiscountable 
and subject to 
change with
out notice 
Specific cars 
subject to 
availability
682-1444
4621 Forbes Ave 
(Hess Exxon)
We otter S & H Green 
Stamp certificates on 
rentals in all 50 U S states
We feature GM cars like this Chevrolet Chevette
entertainment were Penn Gables Pizza and 
Spankys Tavern. I made a lot of good 
friends, got used to the surroundings, and 
even learned a few things.
After a summer of getting reacquainted 
with civilization, I returned to start my 
sophomore year. Within a couple of 
months, problems started. I became 
dissatisfied with my major (accting), bored 
with the atmosphere, and disgusted with 
administrative doings. I decided to leave 
at the end of the semester.
I took the next semester off, and when 
the fall of this*year rolled around, lo and 
behold, 1 was a transfer student at CMU. 
Its not as unique as it seemed before, 
but now I know how different two college 
campuses can be.
The most obvious difference is the size. I 
walk further to go to lunch here than 
1 did walking all the way across campus at 
SFC. Although some dont consider CMU 
a large campus in comparison to schools 
such as Pitt, I wont be used to its size for 
quite a while.
A second major difference is the per
sonality of the school. Because of the dif
ferent colleges H&SS, CIT, FA, MIS, 
AMSand the number of students, CMU is 
a society in itself, with a wide variety of 
things to do and see. St. Francis, on the 
other hand, was a glorified high school. I 
was separated from the real world.
Fraternities and clubs here at CMU 
appear to have a greater sense of pride than 
did those at SFC. Of course, Ive heard of 
problems with some of the fraternity 
houses and in the dorms, but those are to 
be expected. I have also heard some com
plaints about facilities on campus, but 
things could be worse.
Overall, everthing seem to run smoother 
here than it did at the college among the 
pines and behind the times, as it was 
often called. After being here for a month, 
my question How different can college 
life really be elswhere? has been 
answered. Based on that answer, I think 
that for once in my college career, I have 
made a wise decision.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12TARTANOctober 2, 1979
Viaygimidcollegiate camouflage
Mini-mystery
by Beth Arden
Late one Monday, Inspector Denar was 
working late. It had been raining all 
evening. The phone rang. She gazed out 
the window in disgust, then answered it 
on the second ring.
It was Captain Kirk Dougsop, her righthand man. He was at the scene of a suicide, 
but since the victim, Addie Neil, had been 
an heiress, he suspected homicide and 
wanted the Inspector to come and investi
gate. She gathered up her things and jump
ed in the car.
She arrived at the scene; Neil's apartment, 
ten minutes later.. Police and morgue per
sonnel were already there. Questioning the 
only suspect, Neils boyfriend, she 
collected the facts of the case. Pele Greenjeans was still shaken by his girlfriends 
death and took a while to tell his story:
Addie called me late this afternoon 
to say she was really upset. Her uncle died 
yesterday and she had been very close to 
him. He was her last living relative. She 
wanted me to come over, but I had work 
to finish up for tomorrow, so I decided to 
come later-I thought she would be all 
right until then. Greenjeans broke down 
on the last line, and had to regain his 
composure before continuing.
1 got here about a half an hour ago and 
found Addie dead. Then 1 called your 
captain, he finished.
The inspector absorbed the story and 
eyed the scene carefully. The body was 
laying on the couch, a suicide note laying
on the floor. Reading the note and finding 
nothing specific and seeing nothing else out 
of order in the apartment, the Inspector re
turned to Greenjeans.
1 want you to come downtown with us 
to make your statement. It looks like an 
open and shut case, but we still need your 
statement for the record.
Greenjeans shrugged, then agreed to come 
along.
On the way out to the car, Denar heard a 
mewing coming from Greenjeans car. 
She walked to it, stooped and saw a kitten 
on the dry stones of the driveway below 
the car.
Greenjeans spoke sadly as he scooped up 
the animal. Thats Addies kitten--I gave 
it to her for her birthday two weeks ago.
The three continued towards the Inspect
ors car and headed downtown. Once in her 
office, Denar spoke sharply to the Captain.
Book im, Dougsop, Murder 1!
Greenjeans gasped in shock.  You cant 
prove it!
Maybe not, but I can prove that your 
story is a lie!
HOW DOES THE INSPECTOR KNOW 
GREENJEANS IS LYING?
SOLUTION: If it was raining all evening, 
why were the stones underneath Green
jeans car dry? Obviously, Greenjeans was 
lying about the time he arrived at Neils 
apartment. If hes lying, hes probably got 
something to hide and the motive for 
murder could very well be money. The 
Inspectors guess as to how Neil really 
died proved right.
BYRYAREKCAHTYIN
ARENKLUAFLZACKY
BAYLT0P0Z0LTCR0
RHK* EX0WBMFWEV0T
0GSKTUwELABAWGS
NUVEZUHNINLWCRL
TAEN0TGNIKRATC0
EMYKE0FEDXZUMAT
FL00WUTTNLAGAUD
0ITARSYTAN0HL0D
C0SEMALBLE0FERM
RZ0LNUSETNAVREC
ANDFARMHUXELRKI
NYSTINEHZL0S0LA
ERN0SNEVFTSL0ZA
Can you find the hidden novelists?
BALZAC
BENNETT
BRONTE
CAPOTE
CERVANTES
CRANE
DEFOE
DOSTOYEVSKY
FAULKNER
GOETHE
GORKI
HUXLEY
KEROUAC
MALAMUD
ORWELL
SAROYAN
SOLZHENITSYN
STEINBECK
STEVENSON
TARKINGTON
THACKERAY
TOLSTOY
TWAIN
VERNE
VONNEGUT
WAUGH
WOOLF
ZOLA
REGISTER NOW SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13,1979
MAD FOR PLAID
HOMECOMING 79
TO RC HL IGTP ADE BNTFPW HKSiCc kLfc iKooCcOm OKROm Ken eKg'O Ken 7fg'n 
kLfcOC'9 K scgaCrRgeegeH 9'LKSMigO kCKc Rg'' scLlC SL 7C 7CSSCc SiKe ClCc RgSi 
9gcOSm OCwLenm Ken Sigcn s'KwC ScLsigCO SL 7C KRKcnCn KS iK'9SgoC L9 SiC 
tLoCwLogeH HKoC ge KnngSgLe SL hU((-(( Ken hd(-(( SL SiC 9gcOS Ken OCwLen s'KwC 
RgeeCcOm cCOsCwSglC'kMiC 9'LKSO Rg'' )Lge SiC Yg'SgC /Kenm K'foeg w'KOOCOm Ken 
wiCCc'CKnCcO KO SiCk oKcwi geSL SiC OSKngfo Ken RKSwi Lfc 9gHiSgeH MKcSKeO
SKXC Le SiC Z " y BcCOgnCeSOTNN u.MEFuS GUSM AFNN DUM T. TBBNFCTMFD. /Y GD.PTYm DCMD/uE 
8m U979- TBBNFCTMFD.S TVTFNT/Nu F. Mtu STEC DAAFCum d(d ZTE.uE FFTNN---------------------------------------------------

unique he still is similar in manyand create a very exciting Uve band
BloodSweat, & Tears will perform at Homecoming
by Ted Smits
On Sunday, October 14 at 8 PM A.B. 
Concerts will present Homecoming Con
cert 79 featuring Blood, Sweat & Tears, 
with special guest Michael Johnson in the 
CMU Gym. When Blood, Sweat & Tears 
was formed in 1968 they were one of the 
first jazz-rock bands. They quickly became 
one of the leading groups with the release 
of their second album which featured their 
hit singles; Spinning Wheel, And When 
I Die and You Made Me So Very Hap
py. The pop-oriente singles fearuring 
David Clayton-Thomas superb vocals 
were just about all the radio play the group 
recieved. This caused many people to demiss the band as a commercial, pop music 
group. In reality BS&T were one of the 
most innovative jazz-rock fusion bands 
and were heavy influences for many of the 
bands around today.
In 1971 David Clayton-Thomas left 
the group for a solo career. Without his 
leadership and excellent vocals the group 
basically fell apart and their reputation 
virtually vanished. In 1974 ClaytonThomas rejoined the band and they have 
enjoyed steadily increasing popularity in 
the last few years. BS&T have changed 
their musical style away from pop music 
instead they have developed into one of 
the freshest jazz and blues groups around. 
The group added drummer Bob Economu 
(formerly of Maynard Fergusons band) 
and pianist Larry Wills early th s year. 
The groups members have played in al
most all of the big jazz bands but they still 
retain a sense of Thythm and blues that 
merge perfectly with the jazz influences
The groups typical shows now contain 
a number of their past hits from the early 
days but the focus is on there unique 
jazz-blues style and of course the lead 
vocals of David Clayton-Thomas. He is 
basically the sound of the old BS&T and 
he is still leader of the group today. His 
brief excursion into solo albums has helped 
himself and the band. He now states that 
we will not cut a record for play only on 
AM radio. The change in Blood, Sweat & 
Tears seemed to have helped the band 
and with the addition of Michael Johnson 
as the opening act this years homecoming 
concert should be one to look forward to.
Though he has released five albums, 
Michael Johnson has never attracted much 
attention in the music world until last year 
or so. His last two albums The Michael 
Johnson Album and Dialogue has 
established him as an experienced enter
taining folksinger and guitarist. After 21 
years of guitar playing Johnson has reached 
a stage that his musical talents and skills 
are so perfected that his live shows can now 
be fully appreciated. His years of appear
ances have also taught him how to keep 
the audience satisfied. He writes many 
humorus satirical songs such as Lets Drop 
The Big One Now and The Wonderful 
World of Sex. Though these are most 
often the crowds favorites Johnson also 
delivers mellow folk and classical influ
enced songs.
While his current shows will feature his 
hits like Bluer than Blue and Almost 
Like Being In Love it is often his improvisational, humorous material which really 
carries the show. Though his style is almost
s
Kate Young and Maura Minteer wait for their "Absent Friends" to arrive in the Alan Ayckbourn 
comedy playing at the Pittsburgh Playhouse through October 7th.
Coffeehouse this Saturday
This Saturday evening A.B. Coffeehas recorded three records so far, the last
house Committee will present Papa John being the enthusiastically received folk
Kolstad in Concert with Erica Nashcatalog, Beans Taste Fine. The ever
an. Papa John has been touring, playing smiling, bearded musician does a large
coffeehouses, concert halls, and colleges variety of acoustic music with down
for the good part of two decades. He home flavor-blues, rags, folk, swing,
country-mixed with anecdotes about his 
songs, his travels and his experiences. 
He also makes impromptu observations 
and commentaries (on everything and 
anything) along the way. Presently living 
in Minneapolis. Kolstad spent five years 
living in Boston completing a degree in 
music from the Berklee College of Music. 
He has been a featured performer at about 
a dozen major folk festivals, including the 
ones in Philadelphia, Winnepeg, and the 
Smithsonian Folklife Festival. He has 
appeared in concert with Steeleye Span, 
Tom Rush, Dave Van Ronk, Odetta, Eric 
Anderson. Steve Goodman, and Pete Seeger. Coffeehouse begins Saturday evening 
at 9:30 in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. This 
is free and open to the campus, and re
freshments will be served.
Michael Johnson will be opening for Blood, Sweat, & Tears at Homecoming Concert on Oct
ober 14th in the CMU gym.
to most other solo singer-guitarists in 
that his live shows are almost invariably 
much more enjoyable and entertaining 
than his albums. This years homecoming 
concert has very good potential and I 
would recommend checking out both
Michael Johnson and Blood, Sweat and 
Tears.
Tickets are now available at the Skibo 
Information Desk. Cost is $4.00 with 
CMU student I.D., $5.00 with any other 
college I.D. and $6.00 for the general 
public.
Absent Friends confusing
0 . > JSQ&V.1MH-o>
by Paul L. Kravits
Alan Ayckbourns Absent Friends 
opened at the Pittsburgh Playhouse on 
September 20, leaving patrons with a vague 
sense of uneasiness. Although the indivi
dual performances of the actors and 
actresses were fine, and each scene on its 
own merits was quite funny and enjoyable, 
the play as a whole lacked a sense of con
tinuity and integration.
Absent Friends presents an afternoon 
tea in suburban England which is attended 
by two married couples, as well as Marge, a 
woman whose husband (Gordon) is a 
hypochondriac and therefore absent, and 
Colin, a bachelor whose fiance (Carol) has 
recently drowned. The tea is being held to 
console Colin after Carols death. On first 
appearances the married couples seem to 
have exemplary marriages, but one soon 
realizes just how deceiving appearances can 
be as Ayckbourn delves further into the 
intricacies of each relationship. This basic 
premise, plus the authors comic wit and 
his mastery of small talk, could have and
should have provided a most pleasant even
ing.
However, there was an obvious and an
noying lack of purpose and direction in the 
Playhouses production. The individual 
scenes were humorous and sometimes even 
hilarious, especially as established by a cast 
of such broad and varied experience, but 
these same scenes just did not mesh well 
enough to let the viewer relax and enter 
the intimate world that Ayckbourn intend
ed to create.
Despite Alan Ayckbourns writing ex
pertise and the fine quality of the cast, the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse production of Absent 
Friends left this theatregoer confused and 
unfulfilled.
Abesent Friends concludes its run at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse this weekend with 
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday' 8:00 PM 
performances and Saturday and Sunday 
2:30 PM matinees. For additional informa
tion, call 621-4445.
Recital series beginning
Papa John Kolstad will be performing at the A.B. 
Coffeehouse this Saturday evening in the Wherret 
Room.
The internationally renowned Y Music 
Society begins its 54th annual Recital Ser
ies on Wednesday, October 10 at 8:00 PM 
at the Jewish Community Center in Oak
land ,315 S. Bellefield Avenue.
Mark Zeltser, the 32 year old Russian 
emigre piano virtuoso, will perform the 
Haydn Sonata, No. 48, Chopin's Nocturne, 
Op. 27, Two Mazurkas in A minor, and the 
Fantasy, Op. 49, Prokofievs Five Sar
casms, and the B minor Sonata by Liszt.
Mr. Zeltser, whose technique, according 
to the Pittsburgh Press, reminds one of 
the youthful Horowitz, whose drama and 
power resemble Serkin and who has the
sensitivity of Ashkenazy was trained at the 
Moscow Conservatory.
A special student subscription fee of 
$21 is now available for the 1979-80 series 
which, in addition to Zeltser, features pi
anist, Alicia DeLarrocha, flutist, JeanPterre Rampai, violinist, Henryk Szeryng, 
the Beaux Arts Trio, and young American 
artists: cellist, Richard Locker, pianist, 
Kirsten Taylor, and mezzo soprano, Mimi 
Lerner.
Allan Sher, director of the series, 
says CMU students may order the dis
counted tickets by calling 621-6500.

---------------------------------------------------

Larry Pine's Mr. Roberts is "an extremely likeable person"
Page 14-TAR TAN-October 2, 1979------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- 
Any questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE? 
... call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOTLINE X2127 Mon. 5PM - 6PM
Mister Roberts has to be an extremely 
likeable person. If the audience doesnt 
like himand meright away, Im in 
trouble,says Larry Pine. Pine plays the 
title role in Pittsburgh Public Theaters 
production of Mister Roberts, the Thomas
Heggen/Joshua Logan comedy that opened 
September 26 at Allegheny Theater. 
Mister Roberts great strength in his con
fidence in an innate sense of right and 
wrong, according to Pine.
Pine describes Mister Roberts as the
story of a cargo ship, a bunch of bored 
men, a bad captain, and one officer (Lt. 
(j.g.) Roberts) who is willing to go to bat 
for the crew. Roberts is willing to do any
thing to achieve his dreamparticipation in 
combat.
Pittsburgh Public Theaters revival of 
Mister Roberts will play at the Allegheny 
Theater through November 4, Season 
subscriptions and individual tickets are 
available and may be charged to all major 
credit cards. For ticket information call 
323-1900.
Stealingaphone canisnt a game.
Moststydents play by the rules 
when placing a long distance 
call. They take advantage oi bar
gain rates and make their calls 
during the discount periods. Ii 
you're not sure when you can call 
at discount rates, check your 
phone book.
A few students think it's O.K. to 
break the rules by stealing their 
telephone calls. They're not beat
ing the system they're taking 
advantage ol all oi us, because it 
drives up the cost oi providing 
telephone service.
Students who break the rules also 
run the risk oi paying a large fine. 
Spending time in jail. And getting 
themselves a permanent police 
record.
It's just not worth it!
(2) Bell of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

On Music
One Of A Kind is high-powered, progressive rock
by Dave Kirby
Has progressive rock gone soggy? Well, 
what have we had lately to convince us 
otherwise?
Tormato, by Yes? Well, its pretty cos
mic at times, but I think they stopped real
ly trying some time ago. The latest UK 
leaves a lot (A LOT) to be desired. And 
what about Love Beach by ELP? Pretty 
dismal. I wont even mention Kansas.
But its not all bad. Robert Fripp re
leased a fairly startling LP a month or 
two ago. It.s not for everyone, but it does 
inspire hope. Less commercial bands like 
Happy The Man and Camel are putting out 
some nice stuff, but they get so little ex
posure they could just die away without 
a trace, and no one would notice.
Theres also a glimmer of hope, not in 
some fresh, enthusiatic new artist, but in 
the solo career of one Bill Bruford. Bruford 
has made the rounds throughout British 
progressive rock for at least 10 or 11 years 
now. He was a founding father (with Jon 
Anderson and Chris Squire) of Yes, and
he played with them until the LP Relayer. 
From there, he joined up with Fripp to 
provide percussives for King Crimson. 
He and John Wetton provided the fuel for 
King Crimsons rhythm section until Fripp 
himself broke up the band. After that, 
Bruford fell into relative obscurity, backing 
up Pavlovs Dog in the studio, Genesis on 
the road, and even doing some commercial 
jingles. In 1978, he released Feels So Good 
To Me, his premier solo LP. Allan Holdsworth played guitar, Jeff Berlin on bass, 
and avant-garde singer/composer Annette 
Peacock softened the edge with some pret
ty seductive singing. The result was a well 
produced, gracefully executed brand of 
fusion that almost hit the bullseye, its 
only fault being that it couldnt do 
everything it tried to. A little overambitious - theres no surplus of that these 
days.
Just about two months ago, we saw the 
release of his second LP, One of A Kind, 
and Bruford seems to have found his band 
and his approach after all this time. Not
that he hasnt always been talented and dis
tinctive, its just that hes in control now.
The music on One of A Kind has a 
trimmed down feeling compared to his first 
outing. All the tracks are instrumental 
(though Berlin gets a credit for vocals), 
and other touches like Kenny Wheelers 
flugelhom are absent. The music instead is 
a fairly high paced, tightly performed 
blend of original UK, late King Crimson, 
and touches of Return To Forever. Dave 
Stewart, whos been on the fringes of com
mercial recognition for awhile, stands on 
out the keyboards much more on this LP 
than Brufords last one. Hes got a rich, 
textural style that is distinctive in its 
reserve and avoidance of flashy technolo
gical overkill. Hes not obsessed with end
less mini-moog solos or dense mellotron 
fills. Instead, he provides an intelligent con
text for Holdsworth heart-stopping soloing 
and Brufords precision drumming. The 
four of these guys -Berlin, Stewart, Holds
worth and Brufordcomprise an incredibly 
tight band, with interplays (such as Part 2
of the title cut) between the musicians that 
sometimes make you think its all one guy.
The best cuts here are probably the title 
cut, Fainting in Coils, Forever Until 
Sunday, and The Sahara of Snow. The 
last of these was co-written by Bruford and 
Eddie Jobson, the violinist/keyboardist 
from UK. This is the spaciest of the LPs 
selections, with some fine synthesizer and 
piano work by Stewart and a searing guitar 
by Holdsworth. Holdsworth also provides a 
sweet violin intro to Forever Until Sun
day.
This is a fine record. Granted, instru
mental music doesnt sit real well with a lot 
of rock fans, and this isnt destined to be 
the next Framp ton Comes Alive. Your lo
cal record store wont be sold out of copies 
-assuming theyve ever heard of the record. 
And just because theres no singing doesnt 
mean its jazz - it isnt. It is high powered, 
progressive rock at its modem best (sounds 
like a Shake n Bake commercial). Its also 
different. Not punk. Not disco. Not a 
Zeppelin clone. And not cosmic pablum.
David Johansen Croup delivers exciting show at Decade
by Ted Smits
Throughout his solo career, and during 
his work with The New York Dolls, David 
Johansen has managed to stay on the 
outer fringes of the rock world. He has had 
enough commercial success to continue re
cording and touring but Johansen does 
not seem destined to become one of the 
mainstream rock and roll stars. His lack of 
commercial success can be attributed to his 
musics strengths as well as its weaknesses. 
These two aspects of his music were clearly 
shown in the exciting, enjoyable show de
livered by The David Johansen Group at 
the Decade Club in Oakland, Tuesday 
night September 25.
In 1973, The New York Dolls featuring 
Johansen and guitarist, Johnny Thunder 
released their first album. The album had a 
new, original sound that promised a lot for 
the groups future. But the expectations of 
the groups, fans were never met; and vari
ous personnel changes over the next few 
years further weakened the band.
When the N.Y. Dolls broke up in 1977, 
only Johansen and guitarist, Slyvain Slyvain were left from the original group. The 
music of David Johansen and The New 
York Dolls was original, innovative, and 
often ahead of its time. Most of the suc
cessful New York new-wave bands like the 
Talking Heads, Patti Smith, and the Ra*
mones were very influenced by the music 
of The New York Dolls. Johansen has not 
been able to become as successful as these 
bands because of his inability to focus his 
music into one specific direction. His aalbums and his live show displayed a rock
ing, seasoned and original style of music. 
Yet, there is such a lack of control of the 
music that Johansen seems always to be 
experimenting with his songs, trying to 
find his own place in rock. Although these 
faults keep his music from being truly 
great, they detracted little from his fine 
show at the Decade.
The David Johansen Group opened 
their show with one of their better known 
numbers, Funky But Chic. From this 
basically slow start, Johansen did a few 
songs off his new album, In Style. The 
rocking versions of Melody, Wreckless 
Crazy, and In Style got both the 
audience and the band into a mood to 
rock and roll. For the next fourty-five 
minutes that is precisely what The David 
Johansen Group did.
Johansen is a perfect replica of Mick 
Jagger in both looks and stage manner
isms. In fact, his Jagger style delivery of 
the vocals often does not seem to fit in 
with his new-wave style backing band. 
Guitarist, Frankie La Rocko, and bassist, 
Dan Hartman seem to enjoy the diversity
iC====>nC==AK===^i}C===3UC==^X===^>C==XK==XK==X}C
WOMENMEN
L
Permanent Removal of 
Unwanted Hair
Call Jane Golomb Maizlech
Professional Electrologist
(412)687-3993
3347Forbes Avenue Suite 100B
Forbes-Oak land Building Pittsburgh. Pa.
in the group and by the end of the show, 
Johansens energy had stirred the band 
into a tight backing unit that complement
ed Johansens singing perfectly. After 
excellent versions of his classic.Frenchette and Flamingo Road from the new 
album, the band left the stage. Their en
core performances of Donna Summers 
Hot Stuff, the Four Tops Ill Be 
There, and the N.Y. Dolls Personality 
Crisis was the highlight of the evening.
Sipping Perrier water, wearing a multi
tude of different hats, Johansen gave the 
crowd at the Decade just what they want
ed. In the small, intimate, club-like atmos
phere of the Decade, the group fit in per
fectly; and the members of the audience 
were presented with the type of exciting, 
original rock shows that are more and 
more infrequent these days.
-y*'-" MK ........VK' MKT-MK  .....TLXK-'. ..-ZHC
Make a great impression, step 
into fall in style. Have a pre
cision haircut styled especially 
for you, then get back together 
with friends and enjoy the fall.
KlfTCKreenmoRS
HAIRCUTS
(Wosh-Cut-Blow)
11 00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sot. 9-4
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS 
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
687-3500
PERMANENTS
2500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
NO
APPOINTMENTS

---------------------------------------------------

AB CONCERTS PRESENTS 
HOMECOMING CONCERT 1979
BLOOD, SWEAT & TEARS
featuring
DAVID CLAYTON 
THOMAS
with special guest
MICHAEL JOHNSON
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 14 
8:00 PM 
CMU GYM
$4.00 with CMU student I.D. 
$5.00 with other college student I.D. 
$6.00 general public
tickets go on sale at Skibo Desk October 1
sponsored by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

CMU offense, defense remain unchallenged
by Reginald Skibo
The powerful Tartans of CMU once 
again used their stingy defense and potent 
offense to smother their opponent. This 
week the victim was Case Western Reserve 
University. The Redcats reached CMU ter
ritory only twice and were shut down each 
time as CMU rambled to a 41-0 win over 
CWR to remain unbeaten.
The Tartan ofiensive machine rolled to 
418 total yards and 28 first downs as it 
mounted drive after time-consuming drive, 
keeping the ball away from the Redcats. 
On CMUs first possession, it ate up 8 
minutes to cover 80 yards in 15 plays, Bob 
Gasior going the final 4 yards for the initial 
score. In the second quarter, CMU once 
again played ball control offense, using 14 
plays to cover 62 yards for the second 
score, a 3 yard Kennedy toss to Perry 
Colosimo.
The only score in the third period came 
on a one yard drive by fullback, Bob 
Gasior, who finished as the games leading 
rusher, gaining 91 yards on 22 carries for 
two touchdowns. In the fourth quarter, 
Bob Kennedy scored on a 14 yard jaunt to 
make the score, 27-0. One minute later, 
following a CWR turnover, tailback Perry 
Colosimo took a Joe Stark pitchout around 
left end for a 14 yard touchdown run. In 
the same quarter, Jeff Harrison took the 
ball over from the CWR two yard line to 
end the scoring.
CMUs rushing attack was nothing 
short of awesome as offensive linemen, 
Don Prencipe, and Joe Goldcamp opened 
gaping holes in the CWR defense. Jeff 
Harrison finished the game with 62 yards 
rushing on 9 carries and one touchdown. 
Bob Kennedy was 8 for 11 for 106 yards 
in the air, and rushed for 56 yards on 11
carries. Tailbacks Rick Leaman and Perry 
Colosimo combined for 78 yards on 16 
carries.
The Tartans didnt need to put the ball 
in the air very often, but receivers, Pete 
Recchia (3-51 yards), Gary Drakulic (2-14 
yards), John Tucci (1-29 yards), and Greg 
Samsa (1-3 yards) were ready when 
needed.
Defensively, the Tartans were once 
again near perfect, limiting CWR to only 6 
first downs, 5 of which came in the first 
half. CWR could manage only 100 total 
yards, and were kept in poor field position 
the entire game as kicker Denny Postufka 
drilled his kickoffs into the end-zone to 
limit return yardage. CWRs deepest pene
tration was to the CMU 41 yard line in the 
first half. Defensive back, Gus Sunseri 
again created some problems for the CWR 
punt coverage team as he returned 5 punts
for 51 yards to give the offense excellent 
position. CWR quarterback, Cliff Wilson 
was frustrated all afternoon, completing 9 
of 19 passes for only 42 yards before being 
sidelined with an injury. The Plaid Cur
tain defense has a chance to achieve a 
milestone in college footabll history by re
fusing to relinquish a touchdown through
out tne entire season. The Tartans have 
only 3 points scored against them tnus lar 
this season.
CMU faces Bethany College at home on 
Saturday to defend their unbeaten streak. 
The Bisons could be trouble this year as 
quarterback Jeff Beer, a stellar performer 
from last year, is returning. CMU squeaked 
by Bethany last year, 35-33.
Conference Notes: Thiel College de
feated Bethany, 23-12 in Bethany. Al
legheny edged Hiram, 9-7. W&J was 
beaten by John Carrol, 20-7.
by Pat Crump
The CMU Tartans faced the Pitt Panther 
soccer team last Wednesday at Tech Field. 
Playing conditions were near perfect as was 
the outcome of the game for the Tartans. 
For years, the Pitt squad carried a superi
or attitude into this confrontation, often 
proclaiming that CMU was protected by a 
fairy godmother. Wednesdays contest was 
an exception as CMU dumped Pitt, 2-1 in 
double overtime.
Pitt took the first kickoff and con
trolled the ball for most of the first half, 
scoring a goal with only 18 minutes of play 
gone. They continued playing well, show
ing superior ball handling and set-ups. CMU 
was plagued with bunching and inadequate 
communication, ending the half with Pitt 
leading, 1-0.
A hungry Carnegie-Mellon squad re
bounded in the second half and it seemed 
as though Pitt was content on sitting on 
their laurels. Outrunning the Pitt team consistantly and with only 7 minutes of play, 
captain George Canepa set up a play en
abling Roland Simon to score against a 
weak Pitt goalie. Regulation time ended 
with CMU and Pitt tied,"1-1.
*>-
'Qmmf
In the first ten minute overtime period, 
play was tight and no scoring occurred. In 
the second overtime period, with only 15 
seconds of play remaining, Bob Messmer 
popped a perfect shot past Pitts goalie, to 
clinch a spectacular 2-1 victory.
In Saturdays game, the Tartans faced 
Case Western Reserve on a muddy field. 
This game was the traditional grudge match 
as usual, with Case pulling their typical 
dirty tricks on the inexperienced (theyll 
learn) CMU team.
Neither team played up to its potential 
as Case scored a cheap goal in the first half 
of play. The action was at a standstill for 
the remainder of the half.
The second half, once again, saw CMU 
come alive. Despite an incredible amount 
of fervor, CMU could not put the ball in 
net. The referees didnt help the situation 
either as their officiating left a lot to be 
desired. CMU did put two goals past Cases 
goalie only to have them called back on 
penalties.
Frustration ran high as Case looked for 
trouble. However, CMU recognized the 
rules of sportsmanship and played fairly, 
only to lose to Case, 1-0.
. .V
H
Jennifer Mullan, the Tartan's first "Athlete of the Week.
The Tartan has added another weekly 
feature to its sports page, Tartan Athlete 
of the Week! It will be based upon an 
athlete s performance for the previous 
week as well as overall performance over 
the season.
The first athlete to earn the Tartan 
Athlete of the Week honor is Jennifer 
Mullan, CMUs outstanding sophomore 
tennis player. Jenniter is undefeated 
in seven matches, and in fact hasnt given 
up a set this year. This past week her 
7-6, 6-2 decision over Kathy Allison of 
Chatham provided CMUs margin of
victory over Chatham (3-2) and on Sunday 
she beat her opponent 6-1,7-6, as the
Tartans shut out previously undefeated St. 
Francis (500). In doing so,
CMU clinched first place in the PennwoodCrest League.
A graduate of GreensburgSalem 
H.S., Miss Mullan began playing when 
she was eight years old, participating
in the White Caps league where her mother 
was coach. She capped her high school
career by making it to the quarter-finals 
of the states mixed doubles tournament 
before bowing. Jennifer was also invited 
to the renowned Fritz Schunks Tennis 
Camp at Bethany. Invitations are based 
upon performance in various tournaments.
A transfer from Pitt, Jennifer played 
sixth team singles, where her record was 
over .500, before she came to CMU 
as a Mech E major and pre-med hopeful. 
She says she enjoys playing at CMU more, 
since tnere is good competition witnout 
the intense pressure of bigtime athletics.
Coach Mark Bush describes Jennys 
strong points as having total concentra
tion during matches, as well as very strong 
ground strokes. He also stated that she 
lays to rest the stereotype that girls cant 
play with pain, because Jennifer has naa to overcome foot injuries to record 
her victories. Ironically, one of her 
victories occurred against Seton Hall, 
who is coached by her mother.
Its nice to see athletes like Jennifer 
Mullan helping to improve the standing of 
womens athletics at CMU.
COa
C/5
-Ooo
PAC Honors Bobby Kennedy
Its no secret that Carnegie-Mellon
BLOCKED punt! It appears as though this Pitt soccer player is throwing himself in front of a "punt" 
by the rival CM U "punter." The action in Saturday's soccer game was fierce and exciting as CM U 
and Pitt battled to a tie at the end of regulation time. CM Ucame through in the clutch, though, as 
they won in double overtime, 2 - 1. They face Pitt Johnstown on Oct. 3, at Johnstown.
University head coach Chuck Klausing 
has built a grid powerhouse from the 
Pittsburgh - based Tartans, and, the key 
to the CMU fortunes is no secret either: 
Quarterback Bobby Kennedy.
Kennedy, who claimed the 1977 PAC-8 
offensive Player 'of the Year award.with the exception of injury-has shown no
signs of let-up, as he has had a hand in 
building Klausings career marie at CMU 
to its present 26-4-1 stature.
In the Tartans latest success - a PAC-8 
season-opening 27-3 victory over last 
years runner-np, Hiram - Kennedy was, 
again, the caU.yst. And, for his effort, he 
was selected the loops Player of the
V.V.VY-V.V.Y. -r. Yr,continued on page 18
CMU booters 'kick' by PittAthlete of the Week

---------------------------------------------------

Career Survival
No dummy.; / .saw/ a rase/ 
For the real beer lover.
PAC Honors Bobby Kennedy
continued from page 17
Week.
All the 6-1, 190-pound senior signal-caller did versus Hiram was connect on 11-of-' 
15 passes for 175 yards and one touch
down, while rushing 10 times for a net of 
61 markers and a pair of TDs.
Thus far, the Pittsburgh Central Cath
olic graduate has paced CMU to an un
blemished 4-0 mark, as the Tartans seek
their second consecutive NCAA Division 
III playoff berth, as well as their third 
straight PAC-8 title toga.
In addition to his MVP trophy, 
Kennedy, a business major at CMU, was 
selected as the PAC-8 first team quarter
back in 77, following that up with a 
team berth after an injury-riddled 78 sea
son.
CC team places 4th at IVP
rinding your way out of the jungle of companies that visit 
your campus each year for interviews is tough. Sometimes 
you haven't even heard of them before they arrive. We'd like to 
help make that career decision easier by telling you about us 
now.
We re Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, operated by the Univer
sity of California for the U.S. Department of Energy, and 
located in California's beautiful Livermore Valley just 
minutes from the San Francisco Bay Area. We're involved in 
many exciting projects concerning energy, national defense, 
and bio-medical research.
Let us help you choose that first job. If you have or are about 
to receive a degree in engineering or computer science, see 
us on campus at your Placement Office. Or contact us for 
more information about our many career opportunities by 
sending your resume to: Employment Division. Lawrence 
Livermore Laboratory. P.O. Box 808, Dept. JCN, Livermore, CA 
94550. U.S. Citizenship Required. An Equal Opportunity 
Employer M/F/H/V.
by Lasse Viren
CMUs cross country team finished 
fourth in the Indiana Invitational held at 
the IUP campus. 13 teams, consisting of 98 
runners, entered the invitational which was 
won by lUPs A team.
CMUs Craig Woolheater finished third, 
followed closely by Dario Donatelli who 
copped fourth place. Bernie Ivanschultz 
was the next Tartan runner in line as he 
finished 28th in the field ol 98 runners.
Conditions were conducive to good course 
time, as the wet, sloppy course slowed 
most of the runners. Consequently, CMU 
finished just eight points behind Clarion 
State.
Coach Gary Meckley feels that there 
is still much room for improvement and 
that the squads performance at the in
vitational is no indication of how the 
team has progressed as the sloppy race 
conditions marred their performance.
DETROIT, MICHIGAN  197
On Campus: Tues., Oct. 16

---------------------------------------------------

October 2, 1979TARTANPage 19
Kick Off Homecoming '79 
As Carnegie-Meilon goes 
MAD FOR PLAID with the
xO^LA
GAMES
on the Cut 
Friday, October 12 
12:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.
DISCO SOCCER: These Pitt and CMU soccer players found time to dance.The Ancient Scottish Games include
F nLe'S fenCcOSKen Rik RC wKe'S 9gen kLfc scgeSO!SHEAF TOSS
HAMMER THROW
STONE TOSS
TUG-OF-WAR (Male and Female)
WEIGHT THROW FOR HEIGHT 
(Demonstration)
WEIGHT THROW FOR DISTANCEtLR oKek SgoCO iKlC kLf iCKcn SiKS OSLck?
Demonstrations of each game will be given by experts. Trophies 
will be awarded to the victors. Applications for Tug-of-War (teams 
of seven required) are available in the SARC/Alumni Office, 505 
Warner Hall. Registration for the remainder of the events will take 
place in the tent on the Cut.
At ASAPHOTO we process Kodacolor and tktochrome
film right on the premises and we will have your prints and 
slides ready to pick up that same day! ASA means as soon 
as possible It also means reliability and quality that is 
the absolute finest Stop in and see for yourself . You are 
welcomed to watch our professional technicians at work. 
After all, its your film.
3527 Forbes Ave, 
OaklandAcross From Parkvole Savings
HOURS 7:30 to 6:00 PM  Mon. Fri 10:00 to 3:00 PM  Saturdays
DOSSI E
all interested in working on dossier magazine please

---------------------------------------------------

UFS UPDATE
Food Service 
COUPON BOOKS are
now on sale for the 
month of October at a
10% DISCOUNT!
$20 worth of coupons 
Only $18.00
$10 worth of coupons 
Only $9.00
Food Service is adjust
ing prices at the beginningofeach month. 
October 1 st, as will the 
first day of every 
month, brings price 
changes to UFS.
TIMES & PLACES
KILTIE CAFE
Breakfast
Lunch
Dinner
Mon. - Fri.
7:30 am -11:00 am 
11:00 am - 2:00 pm 
4:30 pm -7:00 pm
SALADS PLUS
Mon. - Fri.
11:30 am - 3:00 pm 
5:00 pm-7:00 pm
KRESGE FACULTY DINING ROOM
Mon.-Fri. 11:30 AM -1 ;45 PM
BAKERY/DELI
Mon.-Fri. 7:00 AM - 3:00 PM
DINNERS UNLIMITED
Mon.-Fri. 4:30 PM - 7:00 PM
BAKERY/DELI  WHY 
WAIT? Phone your or
der ahead. Orders 
placed between 7am 
and 10am will be 
ready at noon. Call 
3093.
WANT ADPositions\available for 
work/study students 
apply Monday thru 
Friday, 4:30-7:30 in 
the Kiltie Cafe.
...NEW HOURS... 
MORE-PIZZA is now
open on Sundays from 
7PM TILL MIDNIGHT
instead of 9pm till mid
night. Includes the 
DELI ANNEX.
Sat. - Sun.
8:00 am -11:00 am 
11:30 am - 2:00 pm 
4:30 pm - 7:00 pm
DELI ANNEX
Mon.-Fri.
Sun.
11:30 AM-3:00 PM 
7:00 PM - Midnight
MORE-PIZZA
Mon.-Thurs 9:00 PM - Midnight 
Sun. 7:00 PM - Midnight
TARTAN GRILL
Sun. - Thurs. 11:00 AM - 11:00 PM 
Fri. & Sat. 11:00 AM - Midnight
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE
 t, 4'i  >**> ft A  M M I H

---------------------------------------------------

October 2, 1979TARTANPage 21
"Cheating: The Alternative to Studying" discussed on WRCT
continued from page 1
blem of cheating was also viewed as a 
social problem. Young felt that in order 
for a society like ours to work, we have to 
trust each other. 
The panel spent much time discussing 
who gets hurt by cheating . As Young put 
it, All suffer when someone cheats, as it 
degrades the evaluation process. Students 
dont learn and teachers cant tell who 
needs help. On the other hand, an overly - 
lenient teacher is just as much at fault as 
the student cheater. Said Young,  When 
you give everybody an A, that degrades 
the system and makes the learning process 
mean less. All agreed that the cheating 
habit is especially detrimental to the stu
dent. Lots of kids put more effort into 
cheating than into studying, thus becom
ing experts at cheating, said Davidson.
Solutions to the problem were not 
easily come by. Simply preaching to the 
cheater about ethical and moral values 
isnt enough. As Young put it, If you 
come at a student sounding like his father, 
hes going to turn you off right away. 
The prevelant idea among the panelists 
was that it is very important to try to 
communicate with the student.  Davidson 
stated that the faculty must put them
selves into the students shoes and try to 
understand the pressures to achieve on that 
individual. In response to a student who 
called in expressing positive feelings 
towards cheating, Davidson said,that 
kind of individual is the kind you need to 
take into your office, have a beer with and 
really get to know.
Parking memo r
The following is a memo from Earle 
Swank, Dean of Student Affairs, con
cerning off-campus parking.
All students who are using off-campus 
parking spaces (those that are on public 
streets) are requested to be cautious not 
to obstruct driveways or to park so as to 
impede the reasonable access of property 
owners rear to street space and to their 
own driveways.
The university has already received 
several calls thisyear from persons who 
asked whether we can be of any help to 
them in the problem they encounter 
because of careless parking in the street 
adjacent to their homes.
Models wanted for 
haircutting classes. Register 
in person, Philip Pelusi. The 
Bank Center, downtown 1814 
Murray Avenue, Squirrel Hill.
JR & SR MINORITY 
ENGINEERING STUDENTS
(Mex-Amer., Black Amer.,
Amer. Indian, P. Rican)
SUMMER WORK is available 
with one of 20 employers PLUS 
A FELLOWSHIP for MASTERS 
degree at one of 27 univer
sities.
FOR DETAILS & APPLICATION 
WRITE TO:
GEM
BOX 537
NOTRE DAME, IN 46556
DEADLINE FOR COMPLETED 
APPLICATION: 
i DECEMBER 1. 1979 \
"I wish they would..." 
"I think they should... 
Why don't they..." 
My idea is..."
II
II
II
Complete one or all of these phrases in as 
many words as you like and tell us your 
thoughts, dreams, ideas, schemes, etc., for 
using the Margaret Morrison Apartment Store 
Fronts.
Why not send us a sketch, a drawing, a 
diagram or a photograph of something you 
have seen elsewhere?
We really want to hear from everyone who 
has an idea.
Send your response to:
"Store Fronts"
Auxiliary Services 
WH301
OR
Drop your response in the "Store Fronts" Box 
at the Skibo Information Desk.
Each of the guests agreed that a hard 
line stance is not always the most effective
solution. ONan found fault with those 
technicrats who dwell on things like the 
number of students who cheat at a given 
university.
Student feedback (through telephone 
calls) was slow starting, but became more 
frequent towajds the end of the program, 
indicating that a substantial portion of the 
campus community tuned in to the broad
cast.
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
M.B.A.
All Majors and Fields Invited
Come to our meetings to hear about our MBA and PhD Programs 
and to ask any questions about the curriculum, admissions, finan
cial aid, and career opportunities available in the following fields of 
management:
Health Administration
Finance
Marketing
General Management 
Accounting
Public and NonProfit 
Human Resources-' 
Economics
Management Science 
Policy
MONDAY, OCTOBER 8
Contact Career Services and Placement for sign ups.
riI
Byte into an oppiti
The Computer House specializes in the 
finest school, personal and business com
puters ... from the top of the line Polymor
phic to the very affordable Apple. Plus, we 
offer Pet, Centronic, peripherals, ac
cessories, programs, professional service 
and much, much more. Students, stop in 
and let us demonstrate the hundreds of 
valuable, time-saving applications possible 
and pickup your free copy of The Con
sumers Guide To Home Computing.
THE COMPUTER HOUSE
1000 GREENTREE ROAD PITTSBURGH. PA 15220 
(412) 921-1333
I work for exceptional people...
... my clients. And I like to think I perform 
exceptionally well for them  when it comes to 
things like generating funds for a college edu
cation, or finding applicable tax advantages, or 
setting up an effective employee benefit pro
gram. Yes, I'm a professional life insurance 
underwriter and proud of it And if youre the 
least bit skeptical about what a tremendously 
flexible financial tool life insurance really is, 
you ought to get in touch.
Get the most out of life with
SZEYLLER
ASSOCIATES
STATE COLLEGE PA (814) 236-0544 
PITTSBURGH PA (412) 824-0422
PROVIDENT
MUTUAL
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Of PHILADELPHIA
248 Caider Way State College PA 16801 400 Peon Center Boulevard Pittsburgh r4 lNoeN

---------------------------------------------------

MEET THREE PEOPLE WHO FOUND CAREERS WITH NSA.
ELECTRONIC ENGINEER
"As a college student faced with finding a job and starting a 
career you are presented many options. NSA should be one of your considerations. Working at NSA has been both a 
challenge and a continual learning experience since our 
mission demands that we work on the cutting edge of technology. I have experienced the satisfaction that comes 
with having been a member of project teams involved with a variety of computer systems and communications problems. " 
Mark Walch 
B.E.E., M.E.
vuurLjuuuLj vise varesJ 
CLUB ANONYMOUS
284 MOREWOOD at CENTRE
11 to 7 TUES, thru SAT 
681-9387
Private colleges are anticipating raising Public colleges will not be far behind, with 
their tuitions an average of 8 percent next increases of 6 to 616 percent, 
school year, according to a random survey.
COMPUTER SCIENTIST
"My objective on graduating from college was to obtain employment with 
a leader in my profession. NSA 
fulfilled that objective. The histories of NSA and the computer have been intertwined since the origins of both. NSA continues to be the pacesetter in 
the data systems field  presenting opportunities to be a part of the latest 
technology being developed and used industry-wide."
Edward Johnson B.S. Computer Science
After not getting an undergraduate 
degree at the City University of New York, 
using a fake registration at the Georgetown 
University Law Center to get a summer 
law firm job, and nearly getting a George
town law degree without attending classes, 
Mariana Greenstein is -- at last -- actually 
enrolling at a college.
Sort of.
Greenstein, according to the National 
Law Journal, was nearly given a degree 
by the Georgetown law school last spring 
when the school discovered at the last 
minute that shed never been registered 
there.
Georgetown, it turned out, had accept
ed her on the strength of her honors degree 
in psychology from CUNY. When George
town investigated early this summer, how
ever, it found that Greenstein had com
pleted only one year at CUNY, where 
she nonetheless managed to get a gradu
ation picture and honors mention in the 
1976 CUNY yearbook.
Soon after her graduation picture 
appeared, Georgetown accepted 
Greenstem. Although she never attended 
classes, the law school annually promoted 
her, and even helped place her as a 
$425-per-week summer intern at a 
Washington law firm.
It was a mistake, Greenstein told the 
Journal. I knew it was a mistake. I just 
did not know how to emerge out of it. 
Her solution: shes registering -- really 
registering -- as a junior at American 
University this fall.
Yet there may be another mistake. 
Rebecca Abbott, the registrar at American 
University, told College Press Service re
gistration officially ended last week with
out any word or money from Mariana 
Greenstein.
MATHEMATICIAN
'As an NSA Mathematician I 
enjoy the opportunity to apply a variety of mathematical disciplines, including 
many which fall under the heading 'pure mathematics*' to my job. A wide range of 
sophisticated cryptologic problems presents a constant challenge to develop new and creative approaches. In fact, creativity is probably the one universal 
requirement for an NSA Mathematician. 
Linda ShieldsB.A., M.A. Mathematics
PUT YOURSELF IN THE PICTURE
At the National Security Agency your future will be linked to the nation's. 
Whether your interests are in electronic engineering, computers, mathematical 
research or high priority translation, you will play a meaningful role in the 
nation's communications security or the production of foreign intelligence. 
NSA is challenge. NSA is opportunity. ? National Security Agency headquarters 
are located in the pleasant Maryland suburbs, close to Washington, D.C., 
Baltimore and Annapolis, Maryland  just minutes away from countless 
cultural, historical, recreational and educational opportunities. ? Find out 
more about career opportunities offered by NSA; schedule an interview with us 
through your College Placement Office. Or call us collect at 301-796-6161. Mr. 
Bernard Norvell, College Recruitment Manager, will be happy to talk with you. 
? National Security Agency, Attn: M32R, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 
20755. An Equal Opportunity Employer. U.S. Citizenship Required.
National Security Agency
Page 22TARTAN October 2,1979
'Invisiblestudent'failstoshow
photo by Pam '~ewis

---------------------------------------------------

classified ads
1975 VW Rabbit, 55,000 miles. Good
condition. Best Offer. 668-1319.
Refrigerator Wanted. Call Henry at 578-
3981.
We buy, sell and trade used guitars. PITTS
BURGH GUITARS, 4806 Liberty Ave., 
Bloomfield, across the street from West 
Penn Hospital. 621-4733.
French Speaking Africans for 3 mo. Mgmt.
Prog. Univ. of Pgh. need housing Oct. thru 
Dec. in private family homes, sub-lets, stu
dents & staff shares. Can contribute up to 
$250/mo. Contact Juli or Nancy 624- 
4762.
FOR SALE: Zenith Modular Stereo.
Sounds Great, has power to drive bigger 
speakers if desired. $110 negotiable. 361- 
7454.
"SARC" Thanks for the opportunity to
become acquainted with a tremendous
group of SARCs, CMU students, but 
most importantly  people! Good luck 
with all SARC endeavors  you have my 
support. Remember  Iowa or Bust.
Rob bee
Dear Mom, Cousin Robbee Sue, andKids,
This trip was a real knee slapper, Roger 
stops and all. We'll never forget "Jane, my 
Jane" and the rest of the Kosher Konvention Klan. Let's have our next meeting 
in Yipsalante...the McDonald's there is 
our kind of place!
Love, CMU Interspacer and the Coleslaw
Kid.pPR
IOWA'S LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT
For Mom, Fifteen Mute Children,
For Robbee, a telephone in her bathroom, 
For Anne, a can of shaving cream to use 
on anybody she wants to,
For Andy S., Susan and Jane's vocal cords 
in a jar,
For Roger, a Jiffy John,
For Doreen, a dance with Disco Dan,
For Jim, a committee of his own.
For Sherry, a van ride to Iowa, since she 
missed it,
For Jennifer, a bathing suit,
For Andy P., his suit pants,
For Joyce, Halston perfume,
For Brian, a meal every hour, on the hour, 
For Susan and Jane, laughing gas!!!!
to praise the Lord through word and song 
is invited to attend this prayer group. 
CMU's SUKKAH will be decorated on
Tuesday, October 2, from 3 to 7 PM and 
everyone is invited to come help. The 
Sukkah will be located next to Warner 
Hall. Followed by a deli supper at Hillel 
House, 131 Margaret Morrison St. A 
SUCCOTH DINNER will be held Sunday, 
October 7, at 6 PM in the CMU Sukkah.
EREV SUCCOTH and Friday night ser
vices and dinner will be held at B'nai 
B'rith Hillel, 315 S. Bellefield on Octo
ber 5 beginning at 5:30 PM. It will be 
a $2.50 special dinner and Rabbi Michael 
Farhi will be the special guest. Reservations 
may be made by phoning 621-8875.
resident may come to the SDC meeting 
at 7:00 PM in the Wherrett Room. Hope to 
see you there.
w'f7O
W3VC RADIO CLUB  Meeting tonight,
HH401,7:30 PM.
Scotch 'n' Soda presents ... The Return of 
the Sodies 1. Sodies 1, an evening of infor
mal script readings, musical diversions and 
overall fun and frolic, will be held in Skibo 
Room 11 on Wednesday, October 3, 1979 
at 7:00 PM. Scripts for the Sodies can be 
submitted to the SNS office (Skibo room 
40d) or to the SNS mail box at the Info 
Desk. If you can't bring a script, bring 
yourself.
UNIVERSITY ORATORY CHARISMA
TIC PRAYER GROUP meets every Mon
day evening at 8:15 PM at The Oratory 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Anyone who desires
HCeCcK'
Rent-a-Tech is a service provided by
Student Corporation that gives students 
the opportunity to obtain part-time 
employment. Following are some of the 
50 jobs currently available:
No. 3 - Babysitting. $3.50/hr in Shadyside 
No. 4 - Painter's helper 
No. 11 - Some clerical work 
No. 13 - Sales job, some stockroom work 
No. 25 - Live-in apt. & salary, watch kids 
on weekend 
No. 32 - Strip paint in celebrity's house 
No. 43 - Waterproof a basement 
No. 55 - Typing (160 p) prefer to dictate
If you are interested in any. of these jobs, 
some other part-time employment or if 
you have a job you want done, contact 
Rent-a-Tech, Skibo 58 , 682-5482 or 
578-3535. Job Watch will be in each 
week's TARTAN and will also be an
nounced at 1:00, Mondays, Wednesdays 
and Fridays on WRCT.
PITT-CMU BARN DANCE, sponsored by
the University Oratiry of the Holy Spirit 
Parish, will be held on Friday, October 5 
from 8:00 until 11:00 PM at our farm, 
Rednal in Ligonier. All CMU students are 
invited to attend. If you need a ride or 
directions please call the Oratory for 
further information 681-3181.
The Second Annual Pittsburgh Marathon, 
consisting of an official 26 mile, 385 yard 
race, and the 5 mile run, will be held 
Sunday, October 7 at North Park begin 
ning at 10 AM. Awards will be presented. 
Call 622-1404.
The Students' Dormitory Council has es
tablished office hours. Any undergraduate 
dormitory resident is invited to stop by 
and find out more about SDC or to register 
a complaint about any aspect of life on 
campus. Hours are: Monday from 2:30 to 
3:30 PM, Tuesday from 12:00 to 1:00 PM 
and 6:00 to 7:00 PM, Thursday from 
12:30 to 1:30 PM and 6:30 to 7:30 PM, 
and Friday from 2:30 to 3:30 PM. Our 
office is in room 55 in Skibo, campus ex
tension 2114. Feel free to call or stop by. 
On Wednesdays any undergraduate dorm
H
Is
T 
L
NATIONAL
OCTOBER 1-5
L99gwgK'
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours for students between 3 and 5 
PM in his office on Wednesday, October 3, 
1979. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his office, 578- 
2200, to set up an appointment. It is 
hoped that this program will be a benefit 
to both the president and the students in 
allowing students direct contact with him
John P. Crecine, Dean of College of Hu
manities and Social Sciences will have open 
office hours for studnets on Tuesday from 
1:30 PM to 3:30 PM.
Get the Dean's List edge over your class
mates. Come to the Academic Advisory 
Center (ACC) and for no fee whatsoever, 
we'll teach, advise, and answer questions 
in all parts of the writing process. Our 
staff works with all subject matter: resu
mes, research papers, letters, applications, 
literature papers, rhetoric study, science 
assignments, and any other writing task 
you can think of.
Our Academic Advisory Center, on the 
first floor of Baker Hall, is equipped with 
a library of writing books, experienced and 
eager staff, and writing lessons on the com
puter. To top all this, we have prime office 
space with a scenic view of the Carnegie 
Mellon campus.
We are open Monday through Friday, 
9:00 AM to 4:00 PM. Hurry. Don't be the 
last person in your class to take advantage 
of the AAC.
Wednesday, October 3 at 3:30 PM in
Science Hall 5310, le Secretaire general de 
I'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lau
sanne (EPFL). Switzerland will conduct an 
informal seminar on "Ecole Polytechnique 
Federale de Lausanne and the CMU-EPFL 
Undergraduate Exchange Program." All 
those interested in learning more about 
this outstanding program and discussing 
opportunities directly with Monsieur Pittet 
are urged to attend. Both English and 
French will be spoken.OwiL'KcOigsO
The Expanded Polystyrene Division of The
Society of the Plastics Industry has just 
rung the opening bell in its Third Annual 
Scholarship Award Competition. Univer
sity students have the opportunity to win 
up to $1,000 for innovative and practical 
uses of the polystyrene foam material.
The material is most familiar as the 
white foam molded package that locks 
delicate merchandise into protected space, 
or as the foam cup that keeps drinks hot 
or cold. It lends itself to countless other 
uses, and the competition calls on all stu
dents' creative abilities to initiate new con
cepts.
Preliminary entries are judged on the 
basis of freshness and feasibility and stu
dents are advised to continue with worth
while projects. Entry blanks are now avail
able in the Dean's office or by request to 
The Society of the Plastics Industry, 3150 
Des Plaines Avenue, Des Plaines, IL 60018. 
Final judging will be during the Expanded 
Polystyrene Division's Annual Meeting in 
March.
Scholarship available for Computer Science
or Technology sophmores and juniors. Up 
to 1 year's tuition plus a maximum $5,000 
in educational expenses. Application can 
be picked up from either Data Processing 
or Financial Aid. Deadline: October 15, 
1979.
For the first time in it's three year history
the Natural World Photography Contest, 
sponsored by the Leonard S. Mudge 
Environmental Education Program at 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History, will 
offer cash prizes for the four winning 
photographs. Entries are being accepted 
from now until October 30 in color print, 
35 mm color transparencies and black and 
white print categories. The Grand Prize 
Winner will be awarded a $200.00 cash 
prize, and First Place Winners in each 
category will receive $100.00 as well as 
Award Ribbons. In addition, their
photographs will be published in an 
issue of Carnegie Magazine. The juried 
contest focuses on the elements which 
make up the "natural world," be it an 
electrical storm in progress, the silhouette 
of winter trees or a close-up of an insect o 
animal. Potential contestants are en
couraged to call 622-3283 for contest in
formation, or to write for a brochure.
A total of $15,000 is available to young
composers in the 28th annual BMI Awards 
to Student Composers. Entrants must be 
under. 26 years of age on December 31, 
1979. No limitations are established as to 
instrumentation, stylistic considerations, 
or length of works submitted. Students 
may enter no more than one composition 
which need not have been composed dur
ing the year of entry.
The 1979-80 competition closes Feb
ruary 15, 1980. Official rules and entry 
blanks are available from James G. Roy, 
Jr., Director BMI Awards to Student 
Composers, Broadcast Music, Inc., 320 
West 57th Street, New York, N.Y. 10019.
The deadline date for the submission of
applications for NSF Graduate Fellowships 
is November 29, 1979. Further informa
tion and application materials may be ob
tained from the Fellowship Office, 
National Research Council, 2101 Consti
tution Avenue, Washington, DC 20418.
The deadline date for the submission of
applications for NSF Postdoctorial Fel
lowships is November 2, 1979. Further in
formation and application materials may 
be obtained from the Fellowship Office, 
National Research Council. 2101 Consti
tution Avenue, Washington, DC 20418.
Tvr*
YEARBOOK WEEK
rrrrrr
uaBUY YOURS NOW! ,
.ni

---------------------------------------------------

a.b.
October 4 at 6, 8 and 10 PM 
Ramparts of Clay in DH 2210
Admission $.75 with CMU ID/ $1 without
Against the setting of an isolated village 
on the edge of the Sahara we are presented 
with the drama of a young woman unable 
to accept the subservient role that 
her people's ancient traditions demand of 
her. Her growing conflict with her com
munity parallels the villager's difficult 
awakening to their own exploitation. 
This insightful portrayal of the impact 
of political and social forces on the lives 
of ordinary people caused the film to be 
banned in Tunisia and Algeria, the coun
tries of its origin.
October 5 at 6, 8, 10 and 12 PM 
Pinocchio in DH 2210
Admission $1 with CMU ID/$ 1.25 without 
This is the latest revival of Walt Disney's 
greatest animated feature, released in 1940. 
It is derived from the Collodi fable about a 
marionette magically brought to life.
October 5 at 9 PM
TGIF will sponsor a disco in the Skibo 
Ballroom.
October 6 at 9:30PM
A coffeehouse with artists Papa John 
Kolstad with Erica Nashan will be held in 
the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Papa John is a 
folk singer from Minneapolis, MN, who 
tours the country playing at clubs and 
colleges. He has performed at the Phil
adelphia Folk Festival, Wobbly Joe's and 
Winnepeg Folk Fest to name a few. Erica is 
a sophomore drama major who sings and 
accompanies herself on the piano, playing a 
mix of original and popular tunes. This 
event is free and open to the campus 
community. Refreshments will be served.
October 8 at 2PM
Lecture and Special Events will feature 
presentations by Jane Fonda and Tom 
Hayden in the Skibo Ballroom. Open to 
CMU community only. Admission $.50 
with CMU student ID, $1.00 with CMU 
staff ID.
films
October 2, 7:30 PM
The Grain in the Stone will be presented in 
DH2210 as part of the continuing series, 
"The Ascent of Man," sponsored by the 
Mellon Institute of Science.
October 2 at 8 PM
Madam Bo vary will be viewed at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art Lecture Hall, 
Forbes Avenue, Oakland. $1.50 admission.
October 4 at 8 PM
Text of Light will be shown in the Carnegie 
Museum of Art Theater. Free admission.
October 6 at 6,8, 10 and 12 PM 
20,000 Leagues Under the Sea 
and Andy Warhol's Bad in DH 2210 
$.50 with ID/$1 without 
October 6 at 2 PM
Dancing in the Rain will play at the Forbes 
Quad on the University of Pittsburgh cam
pus. Free admission.
October 7 at 7:30 PM 
Life of Emile Zola will be shown in the 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall. $1.50 ad
mission.
October 9 at 8 PM
Le Crime de Monsieur Lange by Jean Re
noir will be shown in the Carnegie Institute 
Lecture Hall. $1.50 admission.
arts
October 5-7
Exhibition by the Pittsburgh Guild of 
Flower Arrangers. Held at the Main Galler
ies of the Arts and Crafts Center. Fifth and 
Shady Avenues.
Through October 7
Forbes Street Gallery. An exhibit featuring 
drawings, photos, and sculpture by Greg 
Karcz and Doug Urbank will be shown. 
The Gallery will be open Tuesday through 
Sunday from 12:00-4:00 PM and Tuesday, 
Wednesday, and Thursday evenings 7:00- 
9:00 PM.
Through October 19
The Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation will present God Created; 
Linnaeus Arranged, a collection of photo
graphic reproductions that depict the life 
and works of Linnaeus, the father of 
biology. The gallery is located in the Pent
house of the Hunt Libary and is open from
9 AM to 5 PM, Mondays through Fridays.
theater
Through October 4
The Playhouse Theatre Company will pre
sent Alan Ayckbourn's Absent Friends at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center, 
located on Craft Avenue. For ticket in
formation, call 621-4445.
Through November 4
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre will pre
sent Mister Roberts, at the Allegheny 
Theatre on the North Side. For ticket 
information and inquiries -about season 
subscriptions, call the Public box office at 
765-3500. ^
Through November 18 
The Playhouse Jr. will present The Ghost 
of Mr. Penny in the Hamlet Street Theatre 
(Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center). For 
ticket information, call 621-4445.
October 5 and 6, at 8 PM.
Mary Roberts Rinehart's mystery thriller 
The Bat will be presented by the Perform
ing Arts Department of Community Col
lege's South Campus.
October 6 thru 28
The Lovelace Theatre will present
Puppet Proposition on Saturdays 
Sundays. For ticket information, 
361-4835.
October 8 to 9
Suddenly Last Summer by Tennessee 
Williams will be performed in the Studio 
Theatre. For more information call the 
CMU Box Office at 578-2407 
Note
The Drama Department reminds that 
tickets to CMU's Drama productions 
are free to students with a valid CMU ID. 
There is a limit of two tickets per person. 
October 11 thru 28
The Point Park Theatre Company will pre
sent A History of the American Film, a 
musical spoof by Christopher Durang, 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre 
Center. For ticket information, call 621- 
4445.
October 18 thru 27
The CMU Department of Drama will pre
sent Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are
Dead, a "theatre of the absurd" work by 
Tom Stoppard. For ticket information 
call the Box Office at 578-2407.
The
and
call
music
October 3 and 4
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra's 
1978-80 Tiny Tots Concert series, for 
children ages 3 through 8, gets underway at 
the Winchester Thurston School on Morewood Avenue, Shadyside. Performed will 
be Saint-Sans' ever popular Carnival of 
the Animals. For more information contact 
Ms. Kathy Butera at 281-8185, ext. 48. 
October 5 at 7:30 PM
Honey tree, the talented lady of Jesus mu
sic performs a variety of styles, which re
flect a wide range of musical loves from 
classical to Latin-styte to country, rock 
and mellow ballads. One show only in the 
Duquesne University Ballroom. Call 921- 
1663 for more information.
October 6 , at 1 AM
WRCTFM (88.3) will be presenting The 
Best of John Lennon, Part 1.
October 10 at 8 PM
Mark Zeltser, the 32 year-old Russian 
emigre piano virtuouso, will open the 54th 
annual Y Recital Series' with a solo recital 
at the Jewish Community Center, 315
S. Beliefield Avenue, Oakland. The pro
gram will feature sonatas by Haydn and 
Liszt, Prokofief's Fine Sarcasma, op. 17 
and selections by Ravel. For tickets to the 
Zeltser recital or the entire Y Music 
Society series, call the Jewish Community 
Center at 621-6500.
sports
October 3-
October 4- 
October 5-- 
October 6-
special
October 3, 1:30 to 2:30 PM 
PITTSBURGH 2DAY on KDKA, chan
nel 2 in Pittsburgh. There will be an inter
esting show on the Pittsburgh Free Clinic.
October 5 at 8:30 PM 
Dr. Ashley Montagu, noted author and an
thropologist will present a lecture entitled, 
The Cultural Emergence of Humankind, in
the Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets may be 
purchased at the Institute's Public Rela
tions office. For more information call 
622-3282.
October 6 from 9 AM to 5 PM 
Carnegie Museum will begin the second 
learning semester of the Museum's public 
education program, BECOMING HUMAN: 
The Bio-Cultural Journey, by holding an 
all-day public symposium with noted an
thropologists from around the country. 
For more information call 622-3282.
October 7, 1-8 PM
A Middle-Eastern Food Festival will be 
held at the St. George Orthodox Church, 
Dawson St: and Boulevard of the Allies, 
Oakland. Free admission.
October 7-
October 8- 
October 9-
October 14-
campus
October 2, at 8 PM.
GSIA PFE Auditorium
The Program in Technology and Human
ities and the Department of Architecture 
presents a lecture by Richard J.L. Martin, 
Professor of Architecture Georgia Institute 
of Technology on "The City and Technol
ogy; Assessing the Technologies of the 
Built Environment". Professor Martin is 
the author of The House that Jack Built: 
An Agenda for the Assessment of the 
Technologies of the Built Environment.
Available nowSoccer vs. Pitt-Johnstown, 
(A) 3:30 PM.
Women's Tennis vs. Du
quesne, (H) 4 PM.
Field Hockey vs. Bethany, 
(H) 4 PM.
Volleyball vs. Robert Mor
ris, (H) 7 PM.
Women's Tennis vs. Roert Morris, (A) 5:30.
Cross Country quad at 
Case Western Reserve, (A) 
1:30 PM.
Soccer vs. Bethany, (H) 4
PM.
Women's Tennis - Waynesburg, (A) 11 AM.
Volleyball vs. W & J, (A)
11 AM.
Football vs. Bethany, (H) 
1:30 PM.
The Pittsburgh Marathon,
an official 26 mile, 385 
yard race will be held. Se
parate divisions for men 
and women; categories al
so determined by age. $5 
entry fee. Call 622- 1404 
for registration informa
tion.
Field Hockey vs. W & J,
(A) 4 PM.
Soccer vs. W & J, (A) 4 
PM.
Volleyball triad vs. Cha
tham, California State Col
lege, (H) 5 PM.
A 5-Mile Marathon will be 
sponsorted by Carnegie 
Borough in conjunction 
with their Carnegie Days 
'79 Festivities. Entry fee is 
$1.00. For information, 
call 276-1414.
Penguins Hockey full (40 
games) and partial (20 
games) season tickets now 
on sale. For more infor
mation, call 434-8911. 
Spirit Soccer season tic
kets now on sale for Soc
cer beginning December 
7. Call 562-9510.
Duquesne Basketball tic
kets for their 13 game 
season at the Civic Arena. 
Call 434-6565.
ASCENT OF MAN"
series at CMU 
This Tuesday, Oct. 3 
Doherty Hall 2210
The Grain in the Store' 
(Cities & Architecture) 
Panelists:
Prof. P. Knapp, English 
Prof. K. Britz, Architecture
Next Tuesday, Oct. 9 
The Hidden Structure' 
(Matter & Atoms)
