Inside
Classifieds.........................11
Comics.................................L4
Diversions............................L9
Calendar............................L12
Vox Populi..........................L12
Forum
CMU crime stats mis
lead  see page 6
Features
Womens issues on campus 
explored  see page LI
Sports
March Madness is 
here!  see page 9fA
THE TARTAN
mmtudent Newspaper Since 190614 March 1994
En garde!
Tim Martin/Tartan Darkroom Staff
The Fencing Club hosted over a dozen other schools at this years Holy Grail Championship," an all 
day tournament held Saturday, February 26 In the Gym. More than a hundred people participated.
CFA department postpones change
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffwriter
A proposed new curriculum for CMU architec
ture students has been postponed until farther 
notice so faculty can reevaluate the changes. After 
meeting with current fourth-year students and 
finding that they were not happy with the changes, 
the Architecture Department decided to postpone 
plans that were to take effect next semester.
Now that the curriculum changes have been 
postponed, were looking forward to working with 
the administration, said Travis Cinco, a thirdyear architecture student.
After [the administration] met with the fourthyear students, they realized that student input, 
which they thought they had been receiving, had 
. not been up to par, said Cinco. I think that its a 
positive step to include us in future decisions.
Both sides agreed that we should get together, 
said third-year architecture student Matt Bushey.
The Department has been reviewing and developing the curriculum for about a year. To further 
the process, a Faculty Curriculum Committee was 
developed to work with an already existing body, 
the Student Advisory Committee, which consists 
of representatives from each year.
The groups met twice, and it was not until Mon
day of last week that some students received a copy 
of the changes. Before, most students heard it 
through word of mouth or off of architecture bb o ar ds.
Cinco said that work needs to be done to build up 
communication lines .within the Department.
In the new curriculum, four classes would not be 
counted as separate, but would be incorporated 
into the actual studio time instead.
For example, a nine-unit class entitled Com
puter Modeling, currently placed in the Fall se
mester of the first year, would become a part of the 
studio itself.
Two classes would be eliminated from the cur
riculum, and four added. University requirements 
would decrease from the current 11, to 6, and 
Please see ARCHITECTURE, page 5
Reform committee 
presents proposals
Panel looks at refining Senate
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
A package of changes intended to 
reform Student Government was intro
duced Tuesday. The changes include 
amendments to the Student Senate 
bylaws, and would provide a $10,000 
grant to the GSO Coffeehouse (the Tilted 
Square) and raise the Student Activi
ties Fee by $5.
The Presidents Commission on Stu
dent Government Reform, created last 
semester by Student Government Presi
dent Dave Wolpert, tried to address 
two key issues, said Tamal Mukherjee, 
a member of the commission.
We wanted to make Senate a more 
representative group for all organiza
tions on campus, said Mukherjee, and 
to address what he called unfairness 
in the distribution of the Graduate Ac
tivities Fee.
Were going to try to compute the
total amount spent on grad students, 
and the total amount spent on all stu
dents, he said. Were aimingfor some
thing fair and reasonable, but we dont 
want to destabilize the situation.
The commission recommended that 
a 10-member panel be formed, consist
ing of three graduate students, ap
pointed by GSO; six undergraduates, 
appointed by Senate; and the Student 
Government Treasurer. The commis
sion would review the ratio of money 
allocated by Senate to that allocated by 
the GSO. It could be adjusted by no 
more than three percent each time.
[The ratio] can shift either way, 
said Senator Crystal Trexel, head of 
the Funding and Recognition Commit
tee and another member of the com
mission. It can go up or down. Maybe 
Senate will end up allocating more of 
the Activities Fee, or maybe GSO will. 
The .mechanism [the commission proPlease see SENATE, page 5
PR staff members depart
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffwriter 
&TINAL. URSO
Tartan Contributing Editor
Three people credited with helping to 
focus world-wide media attention on the 
University will be departing soon to take 
other positions.
Saul Markowitz, director of Public 
Relations for the College of Fine Arts, 
Jackie Quinn, assistant director of PR 
for Admissions, and Teresa Thomas, 
assistant director of PR for CIT, will all 
be leaving their positions soon.
Markowitz would have been with CFA 
for three years this June, but has de
cided to go to the Pittsburgh Zoo because 
of the higher management position of
fered. Markowitz will be overseeing spe
cial events, group sales, advertising, and 
marketing.
Quinn is leaving CMU to become Di
rector of Communications and Alumni 
for the Abington Friends School, a 
Quaker school for preschool through 
grade 12 students, just outside of Phila
delphia. She is a 1989 alum, and has 
worked at several jobs in Admissions 
since graduation.
Thomas is leaving after six years at 
Carnegie Mellon. She is leaving her po
sition here to become Manager of Com
munications at Washington Steel in 
Washington, PA.
She feels this new opportunity in the 
corporate world will allow her to ex
pand, and use the skills and knowledge 
she has built up during her years at 
CMU, applying them to a new environ
ment.
Markowitz, originally from Buffalo, 
New York, left when he was 12, and 
ended up in Erie, Pennsylvania. After 
high school, he attended the University 
of Pittsburgh, where he met his wife, 
Bonnie, a kindergarten teacher at the 
Jewish Community Center.
After graduating, Markowitz was hired 
as the Assistant PR Director for the 
Pittsburgh Symphony. He then ended 
up as the PR Director for the Benedum 
Center. From the Benedum, he was 
snatched up by CMUs College of Fine 
Arts.
Everyone has been very supportive in 
CFA, said Markowitz, as his new job 
opportunity only came up recently. Al
though Markowitz says he is really 
very sad to be leaving, he says when
youre lucky enough to find opportuni
ties, you grab them.
Markowitz says what hell miss most 
about CFA is the students. Markowitz 
has worked very closely with graduate 
students in the Masters of Art Manage
ment Program, as well as undergradu
ate interns to help the PR department of 
CFA. He has loved talking and being 
with students, and making sure they 
know youre there to, help them. Thats 
what were all here for anyway, you 
know, said Markowitz.
Markowitzs sometimes zany PR tac
tics have been notable ever since he 
arrived. He started a bboard called 
org.cfa. cfa-today which currently has ap
proximately 200 subscribers.
Around showtimes, Markowitz always 
had some kind of contest offered to read
ers of the posts. They ranged from being 
able to recount the last CFA event you 
attended, to spelling the name of the 
current production 25 times  back
wards.
During the newspaper strike. 
Markowitz and CFA students made 
headlines when they dressed as 1940s 
newsboys and cried out the news in 
Please see PR, page 3
Cyert occupants fear gas in air
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
The smell of exhaust fumes 
and fears that carbon monoxide 
(CO) was leaking into the Cyert 
Hall (formerly the University
Computing Center, -------------
or UCC) ventilation 
system prompted 
Bill Arms, Vice presi
dent of Computing 
Services, to order 
the buildings load
ing dock closed un
til further notice.
Theres enough of 
a history of people
having health prob.............-
lems in this buildingthat its a concern, said As
sistant Director of Hardware 
Systems Ken Burner, who acts 
as building manager.
Pete Bronder, head of Data 
Communications, saidthattechnicians in room A70 have been 
complaining of headaches and 
dizziness since last summer. The 
room is directly above the Cyert 
loading dock.
We bought some very cheap loading dock after a Cyert Hall 
monitors  pellets  that occupant approached him durdarken when theres CO ing a tour of the building and 
present, he said. Bronder said told him of other residents fears, 
that the monitors also darken Arms then voiced his concerns 
when other hazardous gases are to Environmental Health and 
present. They were placed last Safety (EH&S).
Suspected CO in
Reeefo rmcitp so nsto ac siltp n 
ra2iTai2o hmo2o octo n2oCga 
oMcrop ac Tn2scC 1cCcMlpo4e9 
Doao 3cttc75 
GduP pl2oTac2
Thanksgiving in various areas 
where problems had been re
ported.
He said that even a slight 
darkening of the pellets indi
cated dangerous levels of gas people batty, and now diesel 
present in the air, and that one fumes  theyre all constant
the air is just the 
latestjn aseries of 
air problems that 
have plagued Cy
ert since the build
ing was built in 
1983-84 [Please 
see Sick Building 
Syndrome in UCC 
has residents con-------------- cemed, 10/25/93].
Its part of the 
whole problem with UCC, said 
Pete Collopy, director of EH&S.
The heat and cold goes off 
and on, or else we have the 
stupid black particles that drive
ofthe monitors has permanently 
darkened, indicating deadly lev
els.
Arms reportedly closed the
reminders [ofthe problems]. It 
feeds on itself. People get real 
irate, he said.
Please see CYERT, page 5
Longtime professor dies at 64
James P. Romualdi joined Civil Engineering faculty in 1955
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
James P. Romualdi, a Carnegie Mellon civil 
engineering professor who was interested in teach
ing engineering creativity, died last Thursday at 
Shadyside Hospital. He was 64.
A Squirrel Hill resident, Romualdi had been 
fighting leukemia for the last several years. He 
was admitted to the hospital last week for flu-like 
symptoms and a chill. He drifted into a coma and 
died one day later.
He was, perhaps, best known for his invention of 
steel fiber-reinforced concrete in 1954, a revolu
tionary discovery that increased the strength of 
cement and made it more resistant to cracks. 
Romualdi used this material in 1965 when he 
created a massive undulating sculpture in bas 
relief for the Rodef Shalom Temple on Fifth Av
enue.
In the last decade, Romualdi was most inter
ested in finding new ways to teach engineering 
problem-solving.
His students saw him as a professor who made 
them think in original ways. You never had a 
teacher that made you think like he did. He made 
you be creative, said Derrick Brashear, a junior 
civil engineering major.
Richard Luthy, Civil Engineering department 
head, said that Romualdi believed that creativity 
and innovative problem-solving were something
Courtesy of the Department of Civil Engineering 
Civil Engineering Professor James P. Romualdi 
you could develop in students. He believed you 
could teach creativity.
For his contributions to teaching, Romualdi re
ceived the Civil Engineer of the Year award last 
month from the Pittsburgh chapter of the AmeriPlease see ROMUALDI, page 5

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  14 March 1994
THIS JUST IN,..
Death toll rises
MMABATHO, South Africa, 
March 11 Violence erupted 
in South Africa after white 
supremacists poured into 
Bophuthatswana to quell riots 
over the homeland's status.
South African President 
F.W. de Klerk and head of the 
African National Congress 
Nelson Mandela met together 
in an attempt to control the 
situation. Both issued state
ments asking for peace.
De Klerk announced that he 
would send in 1,500 armed 
troops to maintain order in 
Bophuthatswana, where the 
violence resulted in an esti
mated 20 to 50 deaths.
Mangope announced that he 
would enter the elections to be 
held next month. He also 
agreed to restore his nominally 
independent territory to the 
whole of South Africa.
Disruptions began Monday 
when teachers began to strike in 
demand of pay raises and pen
sions.
On Thursday afternoon, many 
of the police who had been antagonizingthe protesters defected 
and joined the teachers along with 
other public servants on strike.
Soon, whites were firing blindly 
into the crowds of blacks on the 
street, killing at least three 
people.
When the Bophuthatswanan 
army ordered the whites to stop, 
a shoot-out ensued. Soldiers and 
whites fired back and forth at an 
intersection just outside the city 
center.
Three men in a blue Mercedes 
were hit. One died from the ini
tial wound and the two others 
remained alive for about 20 min
utes until a black man in police 
uniform walked up and shot them.
Associated Press David Brauchli/Associated Press
Three members of the Afrikaner Resistance Movement were killed in a Mafikeng street after a shootout on Friday. One member was killed 
instantly. The other two members, Alwyn Walfaardt and Fanie Uys, begged for their lives before being executed by a man in a homeland police 
uniform. The incident occured in full view of over a dozen journalists. The Afrikaners were in the South African province of Bophuthatswana 
to quell riots, but were allegedly shooting at rioters and bystanders.
Scandal causes arrests in Japan
TOKYO, March 11 (DJ)  A former 
Cabinet minister suspected of taking a 
bribe from a construction firm was ar
rested after Parliament made the rare 
move of approving the arrest.
Kishiro Nakamura, a former construc
tion minister, is the first national law
maker and former Cabinet minister ar
rested in connection with a widening 
scandal surrounding alleged payoffs from 
construction companies to politicians.
Since June, the scandal has led to the 
arrests of nearly 30 senior construction 
executives as well as several top local 
officials. Big-money scandals such as 
this one helped force the long-ruling 
Liberal Democratic Party from power 
last summer.
In Japan, national lawmakers have 
immunity during parliamentary ses
sions, unless stripped of it. This was the 
first such arrest since 1967.
Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa 
told reporters the arrest of a sitting 
lawmaker was extremely regrettable.
I sincerely hope the truth will be 
revealed as soon as possible, he said.
Nakamura was taken to a Tokyo de
tention center for interrogation.
Prosecutors say Nakamura took a 
$95,000 bribe from construction giant 
Kajima Corp. in 1992 in exchange for 
pressuring officials not to pursue com
plaints that Kajima and other contrac
tors rigged bids for public-works con
tracts.
Nakamura, who resigned from the
Liberal Democratic Party earlier this 
week, has denied the allegations. Speak
ing through his lawyer, the 44-year-old 
lawmaker earlier challenged prosecu
tors to arrest him at the front door of the 
Parliament building.
After Parliament approved his arrest, 
however, Nakamura voluntarily ap
peared for questioning.
Christopher sees problem in Asia
TOKYO, March 11 (DJ)  Halfway 
through Secretary of State Warren 
Christophers 11-day Asian trip, it is 
clear that the Clinton administrations 
Asian policy is having a bumpy ride.
The U.S. is embroiled in policy fights 
with the regions two giants, and neigh
boring nations are nervous about the 
fallout.
Mr. Christopher added to the U.S. 
pressure on Japan by chastising Tokyo 
for shirking its pledges to reduce its 
trade surplus and open its market to 
U.S. goods.
The critique in Tokyo will be followed 
this weekend by a likely confrontation 
on human rights in Beijing.
After talks with top Japanese offi
cials, Mr. Christopher told a news con
ference, I think there may be a better 
understanding here in Tokyo tonight of 
the depth of concern that I feel over the 
failure to carry out the commitments 
made to the Clinton administration. He 
said Japanese officials promised that by 
the end of the month they would inform 
the U.S. of steps they will take to begin 
resolving the problem.
U.S.-Japan trade tensions arent new. 
But the deep involvement of a secretary 
of state in economic matters shows the 
new way of looking at Asia. Once, it was 
a Cold War battleground, where pros
perous Japan was seen as a bulwark 
against communism, and China, a card 
to be played against the Soviets.
Now, driven by new priorities, the 
U.S. is challenging the economic prac
tices it helped build and tolerated for 40 
years in Japan. And in China, the U.S. is 
focusing primarily on the totalitarian 
behavior that once was less important 
than tipping the balance against Mos
cow.
In a time of Cold War, or in a time of 
war, the military considerations tend to 
predominate and to control many of the 
issues, Mr. Christopher said earlier this 
week. At other times, there can be a 
greater balancing factor, which includes 
such issues as human rights, nonprolif
eration and trade.
But Washingtons evolving policy is 
angering Asias two giants and making 
much of the rest of the region nervous. 
The administration is learning that 
China reacts to pressure by becoming 
more belligerent. Following arrests of 
dissidents in Beijing, and tough talk 
from the U.S., relations became so testy 
that U.S. aides and Chinese officials 
found themselves arguing over the tele
phone about what kind of automobile 
would be available for the secretary of 
state when he arrives.
Japan shows signs of reacting to the 
threat of U.S. trade sanctions by seeking 
to resolve its disputes with Washington. 
But many Japanese are seething over
what they perceive as the U.S.s new 
attitude.
 J apan feels that its relations with the 
U.S. once had many ramifications and 
strata  economic, security, political, 
and global, says Yukio Okamoto, a 
former Foreign Ministry official who now 
is a consultant here. Now, this has been 
reduced to a single layer of relations  
economics.Overthrow plot 
foiled in Niger
NIAMEY, Niger, March 11 (DJ)  
Several soldiers have been arrested for 
allegedly plotting a coup to overthrow 
Nigers year-old democratic government, 
military sources said.
The government denied the report that 
appeared in at least one newspaper and 
was later confirmed by sources in the 
army, who spoke on condition of ano
nymity.
The sources said dissident troops had 
planned to capture President Mahamane 
Ousmane, his prime minister and the 
head of the national assembly at 
Niameys main mosque during prayers 
yesterday.
The government, which continued with 
an emergency meeting that began yes
terday, said the report was false.
This information has absolutely no 
basis, spokesman Moctar Diallo said in 
a statement telling people to be on their 
guard against manipulation and false 
rumors aimed at destabilizing the gov
ernment and weakening the armed 
forces.
The military sources said an undeter
mined number of detained troops, in
cluding Commandants Moumouni 
Boureima and Wanke Oumarou Mai am, 
were being interrogated by army chiefs 
in connection with the plot.
Diallos statement made no mention of 
detained soldiers.
U.S. tells Korea 
to wait on talks
SEOUL, March 11 (DJ)  A sched
uled high-level meeting between the U.S. 
and North Korea will be postponed un
less significant progress is made in in
ter-Korea talks, a South Korean official 
said.
After a lengthy meeting with visiting 
Assistant U.S. Secretary of State Robert 
Gallucci, South Korean nuclear ambas
sador Kim Sam-hoon said the U. S. -North 
Korea meeting, scheduled in Geneva on 
March 21, is linked to an exchange of 
special envoys by North and South Ko
rea.
Gallucci, in Seoul for consultations on 
the nuclear issue, confirmed that the 
-meeting in Geneva will be put off unless 
the North honors the conditions attached 
to it, Kim said.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones
Briefs compiled by 
Eric J. Salzman
Layout by 
Samuel Greenfield
Need 
Cash?
The Spring Carnival Committee will pay you to be part of Carnival this year. We are currently looking for people to work during Carnival hours in these capacities:
 Rides Ticket Sellers
 Security Monitors
Spring Carnival starts on Thursday, April 14, and ends on Saturday, April 16. If vou are interested, please plan on attending one of the following information sessions:
 Thursday, March 17  5 pm Skibo Room 45 Monday, March 21  8 pm Skibo Room 13
If vou are interested in being either a Security Monitor or a Ticket Seller, be prepared to attend one of two security and ticket selling orientation meetings sometime prior to Carnival (dates and times to be announced).
Salaries will be paid bv cheque. 
Spring Carnival is funded by the Student Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  14 March 19943
Crime and Incident Report
2/15 BOMB THREAT, 5:26 pm. An 
unknown person called Campus Police 
and stated that a bomb would go off in 
about three hours in the gym. The caller 
stated that he didnt want anyone but 
the teachers to be hurt. The caller 
sounded like a male in his early 20s 
with a pleasant voice and calm manner. 
Four officers responded to the call. An 
interior check of the gym proved nega
tive for any suspected packages or bags. 
Bell Atlantic Security was notified to 
place a tracer on all lines in the Campus 
Police office in case the caller calls back.
2/19 DISORDERLY CONDUCT,
10:04 pm. A CMU student walked up to 
a fraternity front porch where he pro
ceeded to undo his zipper. The student 
looked towards the upper floor windows 
and shouted several profanities. Two 
officers observed this activity and ad
ministered internal citations for this 
offense.
2/20 FAILURE TO EVACUATE, 8:04 
am. While responding to a fire alarm, a 
Campus Police officer found a CMU stu
dent lyingin bed, eating breakfast. Since 
no effort was made by the student to 
leave the room, she was issued a CMU 
internal citation.
2/20 PUBLIC INTOXICATION, 6:19
am. Campus Police were alerted to an 
individual who was at the rear of Skibo, 
walking in circles and talking to him
self. His balance was severely impaired. 
It was detrmined that he was very 
drunk and should be taken to his room 
for safekeeping. At the students apart
ment, neither of his roommates could be 
aroused. The apartment was littered 
with beer cans, a half-empty bottle of 
tequila and a beer barrel. The student 
was left in the care of an RA and the 
bottle of tequila was confiscated, since 
the student was underage. An internal 
citation was issued.
2/20 MEDICAL CALL, 6:24 pm. Cam. pus Police were notified that a person 
had cut himself with an X-acto knife in 
an office in Skibo Hall. The knife had 
apparently rolled off the students desk; 
when he put his left hand down, he 
lacerated his finger. He was transported 
to Presbyterian-University Hospital.
2/22 FIGHT/WEAPON, 12:00 am. 
Campus Police received a report that a 
' fight was taking place in a dormitory
room. Moments later, a second call re
ported that one of the persons involved 
possibly had a gun. Upon arrival, the 
combatants had already been separated. 
At that time, all persons involved denied 
that a gun had been present. The offic
ers responding to the call searched the 
area thoroughly and no gun was found.
3/3 HARASSMENT BY COMMU
NICATION, 11:59 pm. The victim re
ceived a phone call of a sexual nature 
from an unknown male. After the victim 
answered the phone, she asked the caller 
to whom she was speaking and he re
plied, You know who this is, did I wake 
you? When the victim said that she did 
not know, the caller told her that he 
wanted to touch her inner thigh at 
which point, the victim hung up. Other 
victims had also received calls from the 
same person where the caller was more 
explicit. The call came from off-campus.
3/7 SUSPICIOUS PERSON, 9:57 
pm. The victim stated that as she was 
walking home from Skibo, she noticed  
person following her from Forbes Av
enue down Morewood Avenue. The per
son didnt get any closer until she neared 
Ellsworth and Morewood. The person 
made some kind of noise to get her atten
tion, which made the victim very ner
vous. She also noticed the person was 
carrying what looked like a screwdriver. 
The victim believes that she saw the 
person expose himself, at which point 
she ran across the street. The person 
kept on walking down Morewood.
The Tartan prints the weekly Crime 
and Incident Report under the following 
guidelines:
 Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all Campus Police re
ports prior to release to The Tartan.
 Only three people on The Tartan staff 
see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief, the 
News Editor, and the staffwriter typing 
the report.
 Reports are printed at The Tartan 
Editor-in-Chiefs discretion.
6 All personal names of complainants, 
victims, and suspects and fraternity 
names are omitted from the printed re
port. Ethnic descriptions and other per
sonal details are given only in the context 
of complete descriptions.
 Not every incident that occurs on 
campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
JESSICA FANG
Clinton aide optimistic about plan
Americorps aimed at higher education, public service
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan Staffwriter
Students will soon have another way 
of paying for their education, and Ameri
can communities will get some extra 
help.
The National and Community Ser
vice Trust Act of 1993, also known as 
Americorps, will allow Americans to 
become active in the countrys needs 
through community service within the 
United States.
The plan will be enacted in early 1994 
and has been put together in order to 
help the nation and provide money for 
students education.
Americorps was designed by Presi
dent Bill Clinton and his administra
tion. It was passed in Congress, with 
bipartisan support in September of last 
year. Clinton signed the bill into law the 
following month.
The purpose of the plan, accordingto a 
summary, is to address human, educa
tional, environmental, and public safety 
needs through service that provides a 
direct benefit to the community in which 
it is performed.
It will also serve as a means of bring
ing a diverse group of people together to 
learn certain skills and gain leadership 
potential. Americorps can be an alterna
tive means of payments for students.
Participants will earn a $4,725 mini
mum stipend that will be used to pay off 
student loans. The community benefits 
and college students benefit, said Mike 
Camunez, senior policy advisor for 
Clinton.
According to Camunez, Americorps 
will maintain 20,000 members during 
its first year, rising to 100,000 over the 
next three years. Thats more than the 
Peace Corps and Vista had combined in 
a single year, he said.
Some of the jobs participants will be 
doing include assisting in building low 
income housing, working with children, 
and community police work. The areas 
that the plan will hope to improve are 
education, the environment, and health 
and human services.
The plans main source of income will 
come from the National Service Trust 
Fund, which is providing Americorps 
with $380 million. Other local compa
nies will also provide some funding for 
the plan. This fund will go up every year, 
said Camunez.
If someone wants to enter the pro
Courtesy of the White House
President Bill Clintons new service plan, Americorps, is expected to be enacted in 
early 1994. It passed with bipartisan support in Congress last year.
gram, they must hold a high school di
ploma or equivalent and must be at least 
18 years old.
Camunez said that there is no income 
requirement needed to enter the pro
gram. A person of a high income has the 
same chance to enter the program as a 
person with low income.
In order to enter, one has to register 
with the National Registry. Their name 
will be entered in with the rest of the 
members in a large data base. Later, a 
list of Americorps sites will then be made 
available for the new member.
This is not the first time a plan like 
Americorps has been, proposed. In fact, 
there are 15 programs operating or be
ing developed in 17 states that were 
designed to act as models for this pro
gram.
One of these is the Pennsylvania Ser
vice Corps, which has been in existence 
since January, 1993.
The Service Corps has three main 
goals: Making strong community ser
vice leaders, forming community service 
groups, and networking all the service
agencies in the state.
We put together people [from middle 
school to college] and coordinate and 
enhance community service programs, 
said Amy Hart, director of the Service 
Corps.
Service Corps members are stationed 
throughout the state at colleges, univer
sities and other locations that can pro
vide community service.
Mary Francis McLaughlin, Program 
Assistant for Community Service at 
CMU, is also a Corps member. [The 
Pennsylvania Service Corps] seems to 
be put up as a model for what the coun
try should shoot for, she said.
Will the Americorps plan work? I 
think its a wonderful idea, said Hart, 
its something that will prove to be cost 
effective.
Hart said that she feels the new com
munity service plan will be extremely 
successful.
Camunez also believes the plan will 
work, and added, I think that its been 
a long time since an American President 
has encouraged [youth] into service.
Three PR staffers leaving next month
PR, from page 1
downtown Pittsburgh. They were 
advertising CMUs July fourweek showcase of new plays, and 
Markowitz said the newsies were 
more successful at attracting au
diences than when The Pitts
burgh Press was still publishing.
Markowitz has also brought in 
several guest speakers such as 
Michael Crawford, the original 
Phantom of the Opera. In Sep
tember of last year, CFA hosted 
as AIDS benefit with the cast of 
Phantom to raise money for the 
AIDS Task Force and Broadway 
Cares in New York.
Every day is a new challenge. 
There are too many exciting 
things going on here, says Mar
kowitz. He encourages students 
to see whats going on with the 
new Art curriculum, the Hewlett 
Gallery, the Drama department 
as they hope to see alumna Holly 
Hunter win an Oscar, the Music 
department and its newest fac
ulty member, pianist Earl Wild, 
and the Studio for Creative In
quiry, which has been the sub
ject of three CNN feature stories.
Markowitz has also worked 
with the University Relations 
Office. [Without the help from 
Vice President for University Re
lations] Don Hale to Kyle Fisher 
and all the PR people like Theresa 
Sokol Thomas, and Jackie 
Quinn, Markowitz says that he 
couldnt have achieved his suc
cess without their help.
Markowitz says that PR at 
CMU is a team effort and noth
ing could be done without the 
rest of the team. .
After his departure, Arts Man
agement students and Hale, who 
Markowitz says has been a real 
inspiration, will be overseeing 
his department. Markowitz says 
he cant wait to give [the new
job] a shot.
Quinn cites her reasons for 
leaving as career advancement, 
as well as the opportunity to move 
closer to family who live in North
east Pennsylvania.
She believes that her experi
ences here, both as an under
graduate and professionally, 
have been both positive and chal
lenging.
During her time here she has 
been responsible for many 
projects, which expanded into her 
current position, and various 
public relations jobs..
One of the most1 significant 
projects she has overseen has 
been a publication series for Ad
missions, which started out as a 
small project and grew along with 
the rest of her responsibilities.
Quinn believes her experiences 
here have prepared her well 
enough to tackle her responsi
bilities at the Abington Friends 
School. She feels she will miss 
CMUs dynamic environment, 
which she says convinced her to 
stay at CMU for so long, and is
not sure she will be able to find an 
environment this diverse in her 
future position.
In her time at CMU, she has 
had opportunities to promote re
search and developments in CIT 
in the The New York Times, Busi
ness Week, and many engineer
ing trade magazines, as well as 
helping to found and expand CITs 
alumni magazine, Engineering, 
one of the accomplishments she 
has been most proud of while 
working here.
Another exciting series of chal
lenges she has been proud to work 
with are all of the new curricu
lum changes that CIT Dean 
Stephen Director has imple
mented during her time here.
She has been able to work 
closely with him throughout the 
change, and feels he has done a 
terrific job of expanding and 
changing the curriculum for stu
dents.
Quinn said she leaves CMU 
with nothing but fond feelings. 
She says her resignation is a 
simple opportunity for career ad
vancement. She has enjoyed her 
years here, specifically her op
portunity to work with faculty, 
students, and Director, and be
lieves the level of excellence that 
she has experienced will con
tinue after she leaves for Wash
ington Steel and the position 
she vacates is filled.
3c22oTalcCee
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of 
such an error, contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Andrew Sproule 
at x8-2111, or write him in care of The Tartan, Box 17, Carnegie 
Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3S90.
j* SINGLES *
|21 and over)
THE BIGGEST EVENT OF THE YEAR!
Pan elaokstr flig
4th ANNUAL SPRING EXTRAVAGANZA 
FEATURING UVE BAND, "MIRAGE"
FRIDAY MARCH 18  8:30 PM  $7.00 
GREENTREE MARRIOT 
HUNDREDS OF FRIENDLY SINGLESI
CAC, PITTSBURGH'S LARGEST NON-PROFfT SINGLES ORGANIZATION  882-9656
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Sunday

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  14 March 1994
Recommendations of the Student Government reform committee
Ed. note: Due to the length of the pro
posed resolutions and changes to the 
Student Senate bylaws, the complete text 
of the minutes of last weeks Student 
Senate meeting does not appear this week. 
They are available from Student Senate. 
Following is an edited version of the 
proposals, with omissions indicated by 
[...].
Bylaw Amendments:
 1. Representing all students: The 
following are a set of amendments that 
address the representation of students 
who do not pay the Activities Fee.
Article III, Membership (replace in 
entirety with the following): I. All stu
dents of Carnegie Mellon University are 
members of the Student Body. II. All 
members of the Student Body are re
sponsible for knowing and abiding by 
. these Bylaws. III. Only members of the 
Student Body who pay the Individual 
Activities Fee will be eligible to hold 
office as a Senator, President, or Trea
surer.
Article IV, Student Government, Sec
tion IV, Elections (add new subsection):
I. Any student elected to office who has 
not paid the Individual Activities Fee 
will have until the day of the ratification 
of the elections to pay the Individual 
Activities Fee for the first semester in 
which they will hold office. A person 
who fails to comply with this shall be 
considered ineligible to hold office, and 
shall thus be considered to have de
clined the office.
Section V, Removal from Office, (add 
new subsection): E. If the President, 
Treasurer, or any Senator has not paid 
the Individual Activities Fee for the 
term of their office, it will be considered 
grounds for impeachment.
 2. Graduate Student Organization 
defined: The Graduate Student Organi
zation should be recognized as the legis
lative body for issues exclusive to gradu
ate students. This is a new addition to 
the bylaws:
Article V, add new section: Section VI
 Graduate Student Organization. A.
The Graduate Student Organization 
(GSO) shall be defined as a representa
tive body for graduate students. Its re
sponsibilities include: 1. Representing 
concerns which are exclusive to gradu
ate students to the administration. 2. 
Providing membership to joint commit
tees as specified by Student Senate and 
Graduate Student Organ-izations ex
ecutive committees. 3. Allocating the 
designated portion of the graduate ac
tivities fee as specified by Article VIII of 
these bylaws.
Article VI: This is a new addition to 
the Fiscal Policy: Section I: Student Sen
ate possesses the sole authority to allo
cate funds from its designated portion of 
the Graduate Activities Fee and the en
tire Undergraduate Activities Fee, as 
specified by Article VIII of these bylaws, 
for use by student organizations. In ad
dition, the following bylaws amendments 
are recommended to eliminate problems 
within the bylaws: Article V, Sub-section 3.C. Student Senate will neither 
recognize nor deal directly with indi
vidual Greek organizations. Greek Coun
cil will be Student Senates sole link to 
any Greek organization. 1. Greek orga
nizations shall include all Greek Council-recognized fraternities and sororities. 
[...]
Article V, Section IV (Qualifications 
for Recognition): Article V, Section V 
Recognition of any organization shall be 
in effect unless revoked. Rationales: The. 
above two are just renumbering to pre
vent gaps in the numbers in the bylaws. 
Article V, Section VI should be deleted.
 3. Codification of the split in the 
Graduate Activities Fee: The following 
amendments codify the split in the 
Graduate Activities Fee.
Article VIII, Activities Fee: I. The Ac
tivities Fee shall be the funds that are 
collected from the Individual Activities 
Fees and that are placed under the con
trol of Student Senate and the Graduate 
Student Organization by the Carnegie 
Mellon University Board of Trustees. II. 
The Individual Activities Fee is the con
tribution of an individual student to
ward the Activities Fee and shall be 
determined by the Carnegie Mellon 
Board of Trustees upon recommenda
tion by Student Senate and the Gradu
ate Student Organization.
III. The Activities Fee Split Commit
tee: A. The Activities Fee Split Commit
tee will be composed of three (3) Gradu
ate Students appointed by the Graduate 
Student Organization, six (6) Under
graduate Students appointed by the Stu
dent Senate; and the Student Govern
ment Treasurer. Graduate Student 
Senators must abstain from the voting 
of the appointments of the Undergradu
ate Senators.
B. The Activities Fee Split Committee 
must be convened every three (3) aca
demic years by May of the second year, 
for deliberations during the next aca
demic year.
C. Responsibilities of the Activities 
Fee Split Committee:
1. The Committee must gather from 
all funded organizations, by the 31st of 
October ofthatyear: (i) Number of gradu
ate, undergraduate, staff, faculty and 
non-Carnegie Mellon dues paying mem
bers in each organization, (ii) Percent
age of organization sponsored activities 
restricted to dues paying members (in
cluding regular meetings), and the per
centage of activities open to all members 
of the student body (excluding regular 
meetings).
All organizations not charging dues 
are to be considered to have all events 
open to the entire student body, (iii) 
Current Subsidy Allocation, (iv) Esti
mates of percentage of graduate and 
undergraduate participation in the 
Organizations open event.
2. The Committee must collect from 
the university administration, by the 
31st of October of that year, the num
bers of graduate and undergraduate 
Activities Fee paying students in the 
student body for that Fall and the previ
ous Spring semesters.
3. The Committee must execute, by 
the 31st of October, a participation sur
vey of graduate students for a sampling
of activities open to all members of the 
student body.
4. The Committee must, from this in
formation, estimate the approximate 
dollar amount of the Activities Fee allo
cated in the current year to graduate 
and undergraduate use. The Committee 
must then propose a percentage split in 
the total Activities Fee to be paid by 
graduate students with the aim of allo
cating a proportional amount on gradu
ate and undergraduate students based 
on their population.
5. The change in the split percentage 
proposed by the Committee may not 
exceed 3% per cycle.
6. The Committee must present its 
recommendations, and a summary of 
the data collected, to Student Senate 
and the Graduate Student Organiza
tion by Thanksgiving break of that aca
demic year.
7. Ratification of the Committees rec
ommendations must be made by both 
Student Senate and the Graduate Stu
dent Organization at or before their re
spective first meetings in January of 
that academic year. Graduate Student 
Senators must abstain from this ratifi
cation by Student Senate.
[...]
IV. Any changes to the Individual Ac
tivities Fee up to five (5) percent per 
academic year must be approved by both 
Student Senate and the Graduate Stu
dent Organization. Any recommenda
tions to change the Individual Activities 
Fee by more than five (5) percent must 
be approved by the student body in a 
binding referendum.
V. Only students who pay the Indi
vidual Activities Fee will be eligible to 
vote in any referendum that will influ
ence the distribution or amount of the 
Activities Fee.
VI. This article of the Bylaws may not 
be amended without the unanimous con
sent of all 10 members of the Activities 
Fee Split Committee.
Resolution to raise the split from
37% to 40%: Whereas the Student Senate is considering the codification of the 
split in the Graduate Activities Fee be. 
tween the Graduate Student Organization and Student Senate, and whereas 
the said codification limits the change 
per cycle to be 3% of the Graduate Activities Fee, and whereas the Graduate 
Student Organizations current year 
budget has a discretionary amount o. 
less than $2000 after all allocations, and 
whereas the Graduate Student 
Organizaton would like to expand the 
activities it offers centrally to all gradu
ate students on this campus, be it re
solved that the Student Senate calls 
upon the administration to set the split 
in the Graduate Activities Fee for the 
1994-1995 fiscal year to 40%.
Resolution to raise the Activities 
Fee by $5: Whereas the split in the 
Graduate Activities Fee for the 1994- 
1995 calendar year is changing so that 
40% of the Graduate Activities Fee will 
be designated as controlled by the Gradu
ate Student Organization, and whereas 
there will be increased demand for financial support by organizations due to 
the move out of Skibo, be it resolved that 
the Student Senate calls upon the ad
ministration to raise the Individual Ac
tivities Fee by $5, to $105 for the 1994- 
95 fiscal year.
Resolution for grants to the Tilted 
Square: Whereas the Tilted Square is a 
campus establishment open to all stu
dents, and whereas the Tilted Square is 
currently housed in Skibo, and whereas 
Skibo is going to be demolished in a few 
months, and whereas a new University 
Center is going to be built in the location 
of Skibo, and whereas the Tilted Square 
will have to move back into the Univer
sity Center, be it resolved that the Stu
dent Senate allocates a grant of $10,000 
to the Tilted Square for its move out of 
Skibo in the 1994-1995 school year, and 
for its move into the University Center 
in the 1996-1997 school year. These funds 
are to come out of the 1994-95 and 1996- 
1997 fiscal years respectively.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Masters student killed in car accident
Aijun V. Gokhale, a student in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration, died last 
Wednesday in a car accident. He was 29.
Gokhale, a native of Bombay, India, was a sec
ond-year student at GSIA, where he had been 
president of his Management Game team. He 
earned a bachelors degree in electrical engineer
ing from the University of Texas at Austin in 1989.
Before coming to Pittsburgh, Gokhale worked for 
Credit Capital Finance Corporation in Bombay, 
India, as a manager in the international division.
He is credited with organizing a business roundtable 
with the Indian government, which provided a 
forum for foreign investors to discuss investment 
possibilities with senior executives from that coun
try and key government officials.
Gokhale is survived by his wife, Chhaya, his 
parents, and a brother and sister. A memorial 
service was held last Friday in the Allegheny 
Cemetery Chapel. Gokhales family has suggested 
that donations be made to a scholarship fund in his 
name, in lieu of flowers. They should be sent to 
GSIA in care of the External Affairs office.
Compiled by 
JASON TOGYER
Buying or selling? The best way 
to reach CMU is through an ad inTHE TARTAN
For more information, call 268-2111.
THE AMERIN UNIVERSITY
WASHINGTON. DC 
Graduate Programs in Public Affairs
You can have an impact on public policy and gain a sense of accomplishment 
through graduate studies at The American University in Washington, D.C. 
Graduate programs in the School of Public Affairs offer you the opportunity to 
learn new management and research skills and to prepare for careers in a wide 
variety of government agencies and in private research, public advocacy, and 
professional organizations.
For more information, return the coupon or call (202) 885-2940 or 885-6201.
Please send information on the following School of Public Affairs programs:
? Political Science M.A. ? Ph.D. programs: Public Administra? Public Administration M.P.A. tion, Political Science, and Justice
? Justice M.S. ? J.D./M.S. in Justice
? Human Resource Development M.S.H.R. ? Undergraduate Degree Programs
Name________________________________________________________________________
Address
City/State_. Zip Code_
Your Current School _
Mail to: School of Public Affairs, The American University 
4400 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20016-8022
An equal opportunity/affirmative action university

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  14 March 19945
Architecture putting Government reform closeroff proposed changes
ARCHITECTURE, from page 1
there will be one less Department elecve, bringing it from four to three.
The department called a separate 
meeting for each year to announce the 
changes in the program. Last Monday, 
the Department met with fourth-year 
students and were not greeted with a 
positive reaction. At the third-year meet
ing last Wednesday, it was announced 
that the changes had been postponed. 
The main concern from the students 
comes from their lack of knowledge and 
input as to what was going on, said 
Samantha Ciotti, president of CMUs 
chapter of the American Institute of 
Architecture Students said that they 
felt there were not too many existing 
problems, making the proposed changes 
surprise.
Doug Cooper, the associate dean for 
the College of Fine Arts, and former 
associate head of architecture, said the 
'sign of a healthy department is when 
the curriculum is constantly being reas
sessed.
One of the features of the Architecture 
curriculum is its 54-unit course load. 
Last year, department faculty began to 
feel that the 54-unit baseline curricu
lum was a burden that was overly de
manding, said Cooper.
The new curriculum would have the 
student taking only four classes and 
carrying a 45-unit load. Some students 
feel that the reduction in course work 
would prevent them from getting a wellrounded education.
As one third-year student said, the 
changes would be at the expense of va
riety and opportunities, in their educa
tion.
But the new curriculum will give the 
student a choice. With only four classes, 
they have the option of using the extra 
nine units to either take another class 
outside CFA in an area they are inter
ested in, or use the extra nine hours to 
improve on studio projects.
Many students feel that the depart
ment has identified the problem with 
the 54-unit load. By the time students 
hit their fourth and fifth year, they are 
exhausted, but most are upset with the 
way in which the curriculum changes 
have been planned so far.
Although there would be only four 
classes, the classes that are merged into 
the studio time would take away time 
from studio, and also add more work 
without calling it a separate class. Some 
students say that they wonder if the 
workload will really be reduced.
Students also say that they are more 
than content with the 10:1 faculty to 
student ratio within the department. 
No curriculum is a good curriculum 
without a good faculty, said Omer Akin, 
a professor of architecture. Students 
dont want to lose contact with their 
professors by sitting in lectures.
Right now, third-year students have 
six hours of lecture per week that come 
during their scheduled studio time, giv
ing them less time to work on projects, 
and less time to have a conversation 
with their professors.
According to Ciotti, lots of people had 
been misinformed at the fourth-year 
meeting, and were blaming their own 
concerns on the new curriculum. Many 
students dont mind the reduction but 
they are concerned with the quality and 
reputation of a CMU education.
CMUs Architecture Department is 
unique because it does not require you to 
get a masters degree. The five year pro
gram at CMU allows you to graduate 
with the professional Bachelor of Archi
tecture degree. After a three-year in
ternship, the intent is for students to be 
qualified to take the arduous five-day 
licensing exam.
Ciotti says that things are better or
ganized now. The greatest concern from 
the students was that they felt they had 
been greatly ignored in the process of 
changes in a curriculum they pay for.
According to Cooper, the postpone
ment was a direct result of the fourthyears expressing their concerns. The 
third-year students have put their opin
ions down in writing, and the depart
ment is listening.
I dont know that it was totally be
cause of us, said Cinco.
I think that it was in part because of 
our actions, said Bushey.
There are no indications as to when 
the new curriculum will take effect. The 
changes are being mailed to incoming 
freshmen as an indication of what may 
come. Were kind of at a turning point, 
said Bushey. Nothing has really been 
settled.
In the meantime, the Department will 
further evaluate its plans. The Depart
ment met with current second-year stu
dents on Friday and will meet with firstyear students tomorrow.
I dont think that theres many stu
dents who are disappointed with the 
way things have turned, said Cinco, as 
long as we dont lose communication.
[Editors note: Tartan News Editor 
Jason Togyer contributed to this article.]
SENATE, from page 1
posed] will provide for either, and thats important.
Trexel said that the panel would use a number of different 
means to decide how the fee would be split. Funded groups 
would be required to report who their members are, the 
percentage of activities offered that are open to the public, 
how much each group receives, and who actually attends. In 
addition, the panel would survey students to find out what 
activities they are participating in.
Senate should get at least the amount of money that 
reflects the participation of grad students, said Trexel.
The reforms that the commission proposes would also 
include allowing all students, even those who have not paid 
their Student Activities Fee, to vote in elections. This re
quires a change to the Senate bylaws. Currently, only stu
dents who have paid the fee are considered constituents of 
Student Senate.
A lot of part-time and graduate students are not required by 
their departments to pay the fee, said commission member 
and H&SS Senator Lara Wolfson. That doesnt mean that 
there arent things that they dont need to be represented on, 
she said.
Some of the [grad students] are living pretty close to the 
line, she said, and the current Activities Fee of $50 per 
semester represents a lot of money to them.
The new amendments just allow you to vote and be a 
constituent, Wolfson said. Student Senate is funded by the 
Student Activities Fee. If you havent paid, you should be 
entitled to representation, but you cant take office until 
youve paid [the fee].
The $5 increase would raise the amount of the Activities 
Fee to $105 per year. The increase would be spent three ways, 
with one-third goingto Senate, one-third to the GSO, and onethird going to the GSO Coffeehouse.
I think that there will be some discussion about the grant 
to the Tilted Square, but I think its a good project for Senate 
to grant money to, said Trexel, because the coffeehouse is
used by graduate students and undergraduates.
The commission also sought to clarify the language of the 
bylaws concerning Senates role in recognizing and funding 
Greek organizations, with Greek Council being designated 
the sole link between Senate and fraternities and sororities. 
Mukherjee said that they sought to create a balance of power 
between Senate and Greek Council.
Because Student Senate is an umbrella organization; it 
should take care of all issues, he said, but what he called 
grass-roots organizations like Panhel and Greek Council 
should be empowered to control issues specific to their 
members, much like Student Dormitory Council.
The commission has also discussed the broader issue of 
making Student Government more friendly.
We want to fine-tune Senate so that it works more effi
ciently, said Trexel. Some things suggested by the commis
sion have included having Senate hold meetings bi-weekly 
instead of weekly and changing how Senate seats are orga
nized, she said.
Wolfson feels that there might be substantial resistance to 
some of the things the commission discussed, especially 
cutting some Senate seats.
Senate does things the way it has always done things, she 
said. Streamlining Senate means convincing ExComm [the 
Executive Committee] to behave in a certain way.
The Senate refinements will probably be coming up later, 
said Trexel. These [recommendations] deal with the way the 
Activity Fee is split.
She sees much of the debate tomorrow night focusing on 
the hike in the Activities Fee, and shift in the ratio allocated 
to the GSO and Senate. I think students are hearing about 
it, but not understanding the issue, Trexel said. Three 
percent basically equals about $7,000. Its a pretty small 
amount of money.
I think most people are in favor of most of the changes 
proposed, but I hope they dont get bogged down in seman
tics, said Wolfson.
Longtime CIT professor dies at 64
ROMUALD1, from page 1
can Society of Civil Engineers. He was 
very pleased. He said at the time that 
this is a very important recognition for 
him and that civil engineering has been 
a very rewarding career, said Luthy.
Romualdis other research interests 
included transportation engineering, 
fracture mechanics, and structural en
gineering. He was director of the former 
Transportation Research Institute at 
Carnegie Mellon 
and served as a 
member of the Al
legheny County 
Airport Advisory 
Committee. He en
joyed sailing and 
often would spend 
his summers at 
Marthas Vineyard, 
an island off the 
coast of Cape Cod,
MA.
He received his
bachelors degree in civil engineering 
from Carnegie Tech in 1951, his masters 
degree in 1953, and his doctorate in civil 
engineering from Tech in 1954. He was 
a post-doctoral Fulbright Fellow at the 
Technische Hochschule Karlsruhein 
Germany from 1954 to 1955 and was 
hired as a member of the civil engineeringfaculty herein 1955. He had planned 
to retire at the end of this school year.
He is survived by his wife, Diana of
Squirrel Hill, a 1959 College of Fine Arts 
alumna; three children, Jean, Jessica 
and John; his mother, Gioconda Pesci 
Reed of Avonmore; and a step-brother, 
Jesse Friedman of Bethesda, MD.
There will be a visitation today at the 
H. Samson Funeral Home at 537 N. 
Neville Street in Oakland. Funeral ser
vices and internment will be private. 
Memorial contributions should be made 
to the Department of Civil Engineering.
Cyert occupants suspect CO in air
CYERT, from page 1
Collopy said that EH&S tests 
have not shown any hazardous 
levels of CO in the air. Our mea
surements dont show any CO in 
the area that the detector turned 
brown, he said. Carbon monox
ide levels are considered danger
ous when they reach 35 parts per 
million (ppm) and EH&S tests 
have shown no more than 10 ppm 
of CO in the building.
We dont like the situation  
it doesnt matter whether its one 
ppm or 3,000 ppm, we should be 
able to build a structure where 
people arent exposed to it, 
Collopy said. Nevertheless, there 
are no life-threatening levels of 
CO there, contrary to what people 
say.
According to Lawrence Werner 
of the Allegheny County Health 
department, carbon monoxide 
poisoning can result in head
aches, nausea, drowsiness, dizzi
ness, and in severe cases, coma or
death.
CO cuts off the supply of oxy
gen to the brain and muscles, and 
Jts effects depend both upon the 
amount of it in the air and the 
length of time someone is exposed to it.
Collopy said that tfie pellettype monitors deployed in Cyert 
Hall may be unreliable, and might 
have produced inaccurate results. 
'The device itself is kind of inter
esting, he said. It changes color 
when theres CO present, and 
then goes back to clear. He said 
Jhat was a chemical property he
ad never seen in a monitor.
The claim on the device is that 
lts 'lab-tested, but they never 
say what lab they were tested at,
said. Collopy said that repeated 
calls to the devices manufacturer
were not returned.
He feels that the device may be 
also affected by humidity, tem
perature fluctuations, or by other 
chemical reactions. Its difficult 
for me to accept these at face 
value, he said.
Cyert Hall is unique from other 
buildings on campus in that its 
loading dock is internal. Exhaust 
fumes get into the building when 
the large roll-up garage doors on 
the exterior of the building is open, 
said Collopy, and the vehicle be
ing unloaded or loaded is left run
ning. The exhaust is then sucked 
into the building through two 
swinging doors that provide ac
cess to the dock from the rest of 
the building.
The solution to the problem may 
be an administrative one. The 
big roll-up door and the two 
smaller doors do not provide a 
complete seal, said Collopy. If 
you have the swinging doors open, 
you can push all sorts of things 
down the hallway. If you do it 
correctly; if you dont have the 
truck running, and the roll-up 
doors are closed, [theres no prob
lem].
You have to make sure that 
the doors are only opened in the 
correct sequence, he said. Facili
ties Management is investigat
ing the possibility of installing a 
key interlock system on the doors, 
so that the inner doors can only 
be opened when the outer doors 
are closed.
Unfortunately, said Collopy, no 
administrative system is fool
proof. There are signs posted 
telling drivers to shut their en
gines off, he said. And most do 
 at most, they run for 30 or 45 
seconds. Unfortunately, we get 
some real idiots sometimes.
They have these protocols in 
place for using the dock, but 
theres no one there to supervise 
or enforce them, said Bronder.
Collopy said that in the mean
time, EH&S is trying to find out 
how the exhaust fumes are being 
pulled into the ventilation sys
tem. I believe that theres prob
ably another pathway, he said.
Theres no guarantee that fur
ther modifications of the ventila
tion system would be successful, 
however. Any engineering solu
tion is extremely expensive, he 
said, and the questions are, one, 
whos going to pay for it, and two, 
will it be effective? B 
yronder has a solution of his 
own in mind. Theres at least six 
windows in the building that open 
to gain access to the roof, he 
said, and hed like to see more 
installed in the building.
Im willing to spend my own 
departments money to make a 
fix, Bronder said. Beef up the 
frame [of the building] and put a 
window that opens in there. 
Unfortunately, Physical Plant 
has been unresponsive. I think 
the Universitys worried about 
the aesthetics of the building but 
not our health, he said.
Were trying to get some air to 
breathe, said Bronder. Its some
thing that most people take for 
granted.
We certainly would like to get 
this resolved and open the dock 
back up, said Burner, but were 
reluctant to do that.
In the meantime, supplies for 
Cyert and Warner Halls are be
ing brought in through the first 
floor entrances to those build
ings.
Its damn frustrating, said 
Collopy.
Election
Petitionsfor every college are 
out today at the Skibo 
Information Desk. 
They are due by March 
30th in the Student 
Senate Mailbox behind 
the Skibo Info Desk.
f you dont 
want to count 
complaints, 
count the votes!
If you are interested in officiating 
Senates elections this semester, 
please contact Burt Holzman at 
burt+@cmu.edu or x2-3901.
Funded 100% by your Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Ad supplement causes 
tough choice for board
Letters to the Editor
In this weeks paper, you may 
notice the paid advertising 
supplement from the Human 
Life Alliance. The information 
contained within the supple
ment may anger you, or it may 
please you. Then again, the ad
vertising supplement may fill 
you with overwhelming indif
ference. Our decision to run the 
ad was not reached lightly. We 
engaged in heated debate for 
more than an hour before a tak
ing a vote.
How do we decide what we run 
or dont run? For the most part, 
we take just about any ad that 
someone is willing to pay for. 
There are exceptions. A few 
years ago, we chose not to run 
an ad that questioned the au
thenticity of the Holocaust. We 
decided not to run it because it 
contained factual errors, rather 
than just a strong opinion. The 
decision, based on that reason
ing, was also questioned, but 
the decision stood. We didnt 
run the ad.
Many factors went into our
This week, The Tartan is dis
tributing a supplement pub
lished by the Human Life Alli
ance (HLA). We feel that dis
tributing this supplement does 
a disservice to the campus com
munity by manipulating and 
deceiving its readers and twist
ing facts.
The supplement is obviously 
directed at women faced with 
an unwanted, unplanned preg
nancy. The HLA tries to brain
wash these women  who are 
already vulnerablewith mis
leading information. Propa
ganda, regardless of its slant, is 
not in the best interests of a 
woman in this sort of situation. 
Women deciding whether or not 
to go through with a pregnancy 
need reliable information and 
counseling from a knowledgeThe 1991-1993 crime statis
tics of CMU do not reflect the 
true number reported crimes.
Instead, the report only in
cludes crimes which are 
founded. In contrast, an un
founded crime report is one 
which is considered to have little 
or no credibility, or one which 
does not result in charges being 
brought.
To further distort the clarity 
and pertinence of the report, 
only crimes that take place on 
CMU property are included. For 
example, an assault of a CMU 
student across the street from 
the campus polices jurisdiction 
would not be cited.
Rapes, in particular, are mis
represented in the crime statis
tics report. According to the sta
tistics, there have been no Forc
ible Rapes in the last three 
years.
However, there were three 
noted instances of crime in the 
Sex Offenses category ofwhich 
rape is not included. These num
bers present a deceptive view of 
crime on campus since there
decision to run this ad supple
ment.
However, we chose to run it 
for the simple reason that we 
believed that nothing detrimen
tal would happen from running 
this ad. Most of the campus com
munity already has an opinion 
on this topic, and the supple
ment wont change that opin
ion. In running it, we didnt feel 
that this was a chance to offend 
people, or change their beliefs. 
The majority of the board felt 
that, in the end, there was no 
reason not to run it.
Running an ad doesnt mean 
that we hold the beliefs of the 
advertiser. Another supplement 
that we get paid to run is U. 
magazine. To say that we hold 
to the beliefs of everything in 
that magazine would be ludi
crous. The Tartan board has a 
wide range of beliefs and feel
ings on issues. That said, the 
majority of the board left their 
beliefs on the subject of the 
supplement aside and chose to 
run it.
able, impartial provider such as 
Planned Parenthood.
The Tartan does not have any 
obligation to distribute the HLA 
supplement. If we did not dis
tribute this supplement, we 
would not be censoring the HLA 
because they would still have 
the ability to distribute the 
supplement themselves. It is the 
papers job to inform the cam
pus  not mislead it with slick 
12 page color advertising supple
ments.
Regardless of where you stand 
on the abortion issue, remem
ber this as you read the HLA 
supplement: dontbelieve every
thing you read.
Samuel Greenfield, Lauren 
Heinz, Abby Schiff Eric Strauss, 
Tara Zane
were in fact alleged occurences 
of rape upon students within 
the last three years.
Unfortunately, these perti
nent occurences were un
founded and omitted from the 
report. Cases such as these 
should, we feel, be included in 
the statistics for the publics 
benefit.
A solution to the ambiguity of 
the crime statistics might be to 
expand the information pre
sented. Perhaps a secondary 
category could list crimes that 
occur to students off-campus. 
Also, reports of crimes which 
are directed to Student Affairs, 
Housing, and the Counseling 
Center by students should be 
included. This will make the 
report come closer to the truth.
The university, in publishing 
its statistics, is following the 
law, but students and parents 
deserve more than the misguid
ing numbers that are given to 
them.
By reporting misleading facts, 
the university loses credibility 
with both students and staff.
Group's poster 
offends student
Editor:
I am writing in re
gard to a poster I saw 
recently on campus.
This poster makes de
rogatory references to 
Cardinal John J. OConnor, Cardinal of 
New York City and a major figure in the 
Roman Catholic Church in the United 
States. As a Catholic, I am deeply of
fended by this treatment and further 
offended that I paid for this blasphemy 
via my Activities Fee. The poster, pro
duced by cmuOUT, informs the reader 
of this fact: Were here. Were queer. 
Were funded by your Student Activities 
Fee.
Accordingto an article which appeared 
in the Sunday, March 6 edition of the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, the University 
took action against the creators of the 
poster. Dean of Student Affairs, Michael 
Murphy: Our practice is to speak to the 
individuals involved and make them 
aware that offense was taken. We made 
it clear to the group this was in poor 
taste. Poor taste is an understatement. 
It troubles me to think that this kind of 
thing could be passed off with even less 
than a slap on the wrist. On the con
trary, I have a feeling that if some group 
posted Stop the Gays signs and showed 
movies condemning homosexuality, they 
would not only be penalized by the Uni
versity, but they would also lose Student 
Senate funding and recognition.
It is the duty of Student Senate to 
review this most serious act of bigotry. 
Im afraid cmuOUT cannot hide behind 
its shield of homophobia this time. 
Student Activities Fee money has been 
spent in a way that is inexcusable. I 
suggest that cmuOUT return its fund
ing for the 1993-94 academic year and 
that Student Senate take this incident 
into account when considering funding 
allocations and indeed, university recognition, for next year.
Michael Callihan 
Senior, SDS
Writer questions 
Cardinal's policy
Editor:
On Sunday, March 
6, the cmuOUT film 
series presented 
Stop the Church, a 
documentary of the 
1989 action at St. Patricks Cathedral 
staged by the New York AIDS Coalition 
To Unleash Power (ACT-UP) and the 
Womens Health Action Movement 
(WHAM).
The provocative flyers advertising the 
film employed graphics used in the origi
nal action. They were not an attack on 
Catholics; they made a political state
ment about Cardinal OConnor as a pub
lic figure, whose influence in city politics 
extends well beyond the circle of obedi
ent Catholics. ACT-UP and WHAM 
planned the action so the Cardinal could 
no longer hide behind his pulpit while 
his anti-gay and anti-choice policies 
killed people.
OConnors assault on womens bodies 
is well-documented; he has openly sup
ported Operation Rescue, urged Catho
lics to escalate terrorist attacks on fam
ily planning clinics, and proposed an 
order of nuns solely charged with legal, 
medical, and political opposition to abor
tion. The issue of choice is directly re
lated to HIV/AIDS activism, not only 
through common concerns for health 
care rights and control of ones own body, 
but also through the crisis direct threats 
to womens reproductive freedom. 
Women have been excluded from AIDS 
trials or forced to accept sterilization as 
a requisite because of a fear that they 
might be pregnant and endanger their 
fetus. Pregnant women with HTV have 
been forced to have abortions against
their will.
OConnor opposed the 1986 gay rights 
ordinance in New York City, and banned 
masses by the gay Catholic group Dig
nity. The Cardinal stands behind the 
Ratzinger letter, which states that 
people should not be surprised when a 
morally offensive lifestyle is physically 
attacked, encouraging violence against 
gays and lesbians.
OConnors ignorance and denial about 
AIDS has contributed significantly to its 
spread. OConnor stated that good mo
rality is good medicine, as if Church 
dogma were more helpful to people with 
AIDS than quality medical care. Church 
leaders laud OConnors outreach to 
people with AIDS though New Yorks, 
hospice program, but, as ACTUP-NY 
member Douglas Crimp said, In the 
hospitals and nursing home facilities, 
the taxpayers pay him to manage 
through city contracts, he and his min-/ 
ions daily inflict the indignity of their 
archaic moralism on people dying from a 
disease he is helping to spread.
OConnor has opposed needle-sharing 
programs for intravenous drug users, a 
critical tool in a city where needle shar-; 
ing was the most frequent mode of trans
mission for new HIV cases in 1989. 
OConnor has also worked to block edu
cation about sex, safer sex, condoms, .' 
and AIDS. In New Yorks public schools,; 
the vast majority of students are sexu
ally active and many use drugs; preach
ing abstinence denies their reality and 
endangers their lives.
The film Stop the Church provides 
important history in the ongoing struggle 
against HIV/AIDS. Blocking religious 
influence over lethal public policies is 
increasingly crucial in a time when the 
religious right has stepped up its as
sault on safer sex education.
This is not a question of offending 
religious sensibilities. It is a matter of 
life and death.
Donna Riley 
Doctoral Student, EPP
U.S. must reconsider trade policy
 gtc' tuSi
Matt Ball
Recently, having failed to prevent the passage of the North 
American Free Trade Agreement, nationalists/isolationists 
such as Patrick Buchanan have gloated over the harder line 
President Clinton has taken against Japan. In the face of 
increasing trade deficits and continued restricted access to 
Japanese markets for U.S. companies, Clinton has imple
mented limitations on the cellular plione market, and hinted 
at using Super 301  a trade law provision intended to 
impose tariffs on goods from countries with unfair trade 
practices  to further restrict Japanese imports.
It is true that Japan is far from a fair trading partner. Its 
isolationist practices not only hurt foreign companies, but 
also many of the Japanese themselves. For example, Japan 
has historically required that the countrys demand for rice 
be met entirely with domestic production, despite the fact 
that other countries could sell rice in Japan for almost half 
the prevailing price. As a result, large amounts of land are 
needlessly used to farm rice, causing cities to expand inward 
and upward in the tiny country, inflating real estate prices 
tremendously. Only several years of bad harvests have led to 
the importing of rice.
However, it is far too easy to take part in Japan-bashing; 
no one has ever lost votes or been criticized for talking tough 
against the trade practices of other countries. It is more
difficult to look at our own country critically and actually 
change our market-distorting practices. The United States is 
not the shining example of free markets that we would like to 
believe it is. For example, the United States maintains an 
import quota on sugar which inflates U.S. prices by 200 to 300 
percent compared to elsewhere in the world.
In addition to import restrictions and quotas, our govern
ment spends a tremendous amount of the federal budget in 
order to subsidize farmers. In 1989, the Department of Agri
culture spent over $12.7 billion on commodity purchases, 
direct payment to producers and .disaster payments. The 
Department of the Interior charges western farmers prices as 
low as $2 per acre-foot of irrigation water; on the market, 
water rights have recently traded for up to $310 per acre-foot. 
In addition to keeping the prices of domestic agricultural 
products artificially low, a great deal of environmental dam
age is being created by the intensive water-diversion and 
mining practices of the government.
This is not to say that the United States should allow 
countries such as Japan to continue to take part in exclusion
ary trade practices at our expense. Nor is this to say that all 
markets should be open at any and all costs. Rather, if we are 
to expect other countries to act fairly towards us, it is impor' 
tant for us to look at markets and national trade policies m 
terms other than How does it benefit me?
An example of a situation where more than money is in
volved is China. Despite egregious human rights violations, 
including the Tiennanmen Square massacre, the United States 
has continued to grant Most Favored Nation (MFN) trade 
status to China. Economists point out that China has one of
Please see TRADE, page 7
Dissent from editorial
We demand accuracy 
in campus crime stats
Letter to 
the Editoron
Letter to the Editor
Letter to 
the Editor

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  14 March 19947
Pro-life ad intentionally misleads
Abby Schiff
The pro-life movement, already noto
rious for its lack of credibility and its 
refusal to approach the abortion issue in a 
sane or rational manner, has made an 
emergency crash landing at The Tartan 
{his week. An organization called the Hu
man Life Alliance (HLA) paid to tuck its 
advertising supplement into each copy of 
todays paper. Although I encourage you 
to read this newspaper-esque propaganda 
piece about abortion, I hope you dont 
believe much of what you read in it. The 
Human Life Alliance is intentionally try
ing to mislead you.
This column is not about whos right 
and whos wrong on the abortion issue. It 
deals with the fact that the HLA needs to 
get its facts straight. Most of the facts 
about abortion in its publication prove to 
be half-truths, wild speculation, or out
right lies.
In The War of Words, on the bottom of 
page two, the writer quotes an anecdote 
from Carol Everett, who was involved in 
providing abortions years ago (before un
dergoing what she calls a religious trans
formation on page 10.) Based on this, the 
writer estimates the annual number of 
womens deaths nationwide from legal 
abortions to be in the high hundreds.
Fact: in 1985, 1.6 million American 
women elected to have a legal abortion. 
Six died. This makes legal abortion one of 
the safest medical procedures in existence 
 11 times safer than childbirth, and 
twice as safe as a penicillin shot. (These 
facts come from the Centers for Disease 
Control and the Alan Guttmacher Insti
tute. Both of these reputable institutions 
are neutral on abortion.)
Skip to page 11. (You can read about 
Everetts religious transformation later.)
I Abortion: Possible Effects on Your Body 
lists Punctured uterus, Infection, In
ability to become pregnant again, and
Death. These things can conceivably 
happen, but look again at the safety record 
of legal abortion and youll see that these 
risks are incredibly small. (If the HLA had 
its way and women had to resort to dan
gerous back-alley abortions, this list would 
become a lot more accurate.)
Another risk listed is Two to Four 
times Higher Risk of Developing Breast 
Cancer. Id like to see a legitimate scien
tific study that shows a direct, significant 
correlation between abortion and breast
After reviewing more than 250 studies of 
the psychological outcomes of abortion, 
former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop 
concluded in 1989 that most research in 
this area is marred by such serious meth
odological flaws that it cannot support the 
contention that abortion is dangerous to 
womens mental health. (Koop, who was 
appointed by former President Ronald 
Reagan, opposed abortion.)
Turn to the centerfold, which shows a 
picture of five cute, wanted, healthy inbcra cA amo RAnTar9 nscia nsc2alcC lC amlr istl0
TnalcC 2cHo ac so mntAka2iamr5 hltp roTitnalcC5 
c2 cia2lyma tlore
cancer. The HLA is twisting data that 
suggest pregnancy might help ward off 
cancer by suppressing estrogen levels in 
the body. Dont be fooled by this faulty 
logica womans risk of developing breast 
cancer after an abortion is exactly the 
same as it would have been if she had 
never become pregnant in the first place.
On the same page, Possible Effects on 
Your Emotions along with Post Abortion 
Syndrome features are listed. Many ef
fects are overdramatized here, like sui
cidal urges, anorexia, and alcohol abuse. 
Perhaps they do occur in rare instances, 
but how often? Other effects are just 
plain deceptive  women undeniably ex
perience Depression/Crying and Guilt 
after an abortion, but an unplanned, un
wanted pregnancy is rife with feelings of 
guilt and sadness to begin with. And once 
again, all this scientific-sounding infor
mation is drawn from authorities that are 
shaky at best. Who exactly is Dr. Anne 
Speckhard, PhD, who conducted the study? 
What does inability to communicate, 
which 77 percent of women are reported to 
experience after an abortion, mean?
The following excerpt, taken from the 
Congressional Record of March 21,1989, 
gives a more fact-based account of whether 
post-abortion syndrome actually exists 
anywhere besides in pro-life literature:
fants who appear to be a few months old. 
Theres also a dotted infant-shaped out
line thats the same size as the others, 
with the words: Twenty Seconds Before, 
There Was One More. Are we supposed to 
believe that 100 percent of abortions eradi
cate a months-old infant from existence? I 
hope not, because zero percent is the ac
tual figure.
Abortions do not kill babies. They end 
unwanted pregnancies, almost always at 
a very early stage. According to the Alan 
Guttmacher Institute, first-trimester abor
tions  done when the fetus is basically a 
tiny cluster of cells  account for 89 per
cent of procedures performed. Second-trimester abortions account for 10 percent, 
and third-trimester a mere one percent 
(and these'are done to save the life of the 
mother or in other severe medical cases.)
So lets apply some truth-in-advertising 
to this picture, and well see that in the 
vast majority of cases, abortion deals with 
something a lot closer in size to the period 
at the end of this sentence than the shape 
outlined in the ad.
Why is the HLA misleading the public in 
order to make its argument? If these peo
ple are so righteous as to be able to tell 
everyone else how to live and what deci
sions to make, then why cant they them
selves at least be honest ? Arent these the
same people who shriek endlessly about 
morality as they attempt to shove theirs 
down our throats? Doesnt this suggest 
that theyre hypocrites?
As we mull over these questions, lets 
look at the testimonials by women whove 
had abortions and who now regret it. The 
insinuation is clear: I made a choice, and 
I think it was the wrong one. I dont want 
you to make the same mistake I did, so I 
dont think you should have a choice at 
all.
Freedom of choice always carries with 
it the risk of making the wrong decision. 
Over one million women choose abortion 
every year, and some endup regretting it. 
A lot of people voted for Bill Clinton in 
1992, and some of them regret that deci
sion now. Should we do away with elec
tions and the democratic process? Should 
we deny all women freedom of choice?
There is also a testimonial about Adop
tion ... The Loving Alternative. I have no 
problem with adoption, but I object to the 
insinuation that the pro-life camp offers 
women actual alternatives. The pro-life 
platform is all about taking alternatives 
away, not offering them. And if organiza
tions like the HLA had their way, women 
would have only one option: the one that 
the HLA itself endorses.
Its not so much the ideology I object to 
in the pro-life campaign as the methods 
they use to spread their ideas. It wouldnt 
be fair to label all pro-lifers as beadyeyed, gun-toting fanatics; many are lawabiding citizens who simply want to get 
the word out on their views. But I do not 
believe that disseminating misleading 
information disguised as a newspaper is 
an acceptable way of getting a point across. 
This publication is not a responsible cam
paign  it misleads us and it distorts the 
facts. It also reveals a lot about the integ
rity of the people who wrote it.
Abby Schiff, Tartan Forum Editor, is a 
junior professional writing major. Thanks 
to Betsy Magley, Vice President for Com
munications at Planned Parenthood of 
Western Pennsylvania, for her help in 
researching this column.
We must change 
trade laws
TRADE, from page 6
the fastest-expanding markets 
in the world; to deny U.S. firms 
access to Chinas vast popula
tion would involve great oppor
tunity losses, in terms of profits 
and jobs. Pragmatic politi
cians, swayed by the economic 
argument, maintain that the 
best way to influence Chinas 
policies is to maintain active 
relations between countries.
What does a country have to 
do to lose MFN status? The 
United States seems to have a 
double standard, depending on 
the size of the foreign market 
for U.S. goods. Iraq, after being 
ignored in its complaints over 
drilling rights, invaded the 
former republic of Kuwait, and 
the response from the United 
States was swift and decisive; 
an economic embargo is main
tained to this day.
However, after brutally mur
dering defenseless demonstra
tors; China continues tooccupy 
and repress Tibet, create ex
ports with prison labor, and 
harass and incarcerate politi
cal dissidents even in the face 
of a visit from the U.S. Secre
tary of State. Despite our abil
ity to use our trade policies to 
speak of our convictions on be
half of those who are being op
pressed, we continue to con
sider China a most favored 
nation.
Is it only when a country does 
not buy enough U.S. products, 
or supply many cheap imports, 
that our trade policy reflects 
any respect for human rights? 
Perhaps the beacon of democ
racy and freedom should al
ways shine, even when it may 
not benefit us.
Matt Ball is a PhD student in 
engineering and public policy.
Media unfairly bashes Harding
The Editors Notebook
Editor's Notebook is a feature 
which gives members of The 
Tartans Editorial Board the op
portunity to express their indi
vidual opinions. Editors Note
book presents the opinions of the 
individual author only, not nec
essarily the opinions of The Tar
tan or of the Editorial Board.
The 1994 Winter Olympics at
tracted the most attention that 
the Olympics have ever received. 
However, most people didnt 
watch the Olympics because of 
team spirit. No, they were inter
ested in just one eventwomens 
figure skating.
On January 6, at the U.S. Na
tional Figure Skating Champi
onships in Detroit, Nancy 
Kerrigan was clubbed in the 
knees by a hit man hired by Jeff
Gillooly, the live-in ex-husband 
of Kerrigans figure skating ri
val, Tonya Harding.
Since the attack, the news me
dia has focused its top stories on 
Harding vs. Kerrigan, and it 
has not been altogether objective 
in its coverage. Since Gillooly 
cited Harding as a conspirator in 
the attack, the media would not 
let go of Kerrigan and Harding. 
Harding said that she had no 
prior knowledge of the attack 
against Kerrigan, but the media 
turned her into Kerrigans arch
enemy.
The media have been unfair to 
Harding. They depict her as the 
bad girl of the Winter Olympics. 
They ignore Hardings side of the 
story and her considerable ath
letic achievements. She is the only 
American woman ever to land a 
triple axel  three and a half 
spins. She knows that initiating 
any conspiracy against a team
mate would ruin her chance of a 
lifetime, so why would she risk 
giving that up?
Harding did not need the stress
of the media bearing down on her 
during one ofthe biggest mments 
of her life. I dont think anybody 
could imagine the frustration that 
Harding went through when one 
ofthe laces of her skates broke in 
the final competition. Harding 
told Inside Edition that the pres
sure of the media on her did in
deed hinder her performance. 
Perhaps she would have won a 
medal if the media had focused 
some of their attention elsewhere.
Now that the Olympics are fi
nally over, viewers should reflect 
on why they watched with such 
fascination. Did they support 
Tonya Harding in her quest for a 
gold medal, or did they hope 
Harding would break down or 
attack Kerrigan during competi
tion?
Its a shame that the media 
convinced people that Harding 
and Kerrigan, who were compet
ing for the same country and striv
ing for the same goal, were the 
most bitter of enemies in womens 
figure skating.
 Frank Michels
A PERSONS
Carnegie Mellons skewed 
male-to-female ratio means 
that women are a minority 
here. The environment here 
is thus different from schools 
with more even ratios. We 
asked students: What do 
you think of the climate 
for women at Carnegie 
Mellon?
Pascale Tufau
Senior
Biology
The biology department is 
very pro-women. Thanks to 
Dean Henry, there are no prob
lems.
Shino Ikea
Junior
Math/OR
I dont think women have 
been discriminated against at 
CMU.
Jon Confer
Junior
MSE
I think theres a lot of hidden 
bias against women. I think that 
women perceive a negative atti
tude.
Sonia Chandra
Freshman
MCS
Obviously, there are not 
many women at CMU. Some
times Ive felt there are not 
enough women, but I dont feel 
its hurting me at all.
Kevin Chen/T artan Photographer
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief........Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed......Samuel Greenfield
Business Mgr..............Lauren Heinz
News Editor.................Jason Togyer
Forum Editor.................Abby Schiff
Sports Editor................Eric Strauss
Acting Features Editor...Daniel Frey 
Diversions Co-Editors ....John Biggs 
Tara Zane
Calendar Editor......Brockett Horne
Dossier Literary Co-Eds. Aimee Beal 
Germain E. DeSeve VIII 
Dossier Dsgn Ed. ..R. J. McGinness
Art Co-Editors.............Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Photo Co-Editors.............Jim Snyder
Jennifer Urso
Production Mgr..........Katie Swango
Copy Manager...........Eileen O'Shea
Personnel Manager ..Frank Michels
Systems Mgr...........Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Editor......EricSalzman
Asst. Forum Ed............Kris Hinrichs
Asst. Sports Co-Eds........Anuj Gupta
Carolyn Skarada
Asst. Features Ed..........Tonya Rado
Asst. Diversions Ed. Karen Grunberg 
Asst. Production Mgr. Derek Wahila 
Photo Staff Manager......David Perry
Contributing Editors 
Keegan Folk, Laura McClure, 
Brendan McFeely, Tina L. Urso
Senior Staff 
Tony deFigio, David Hunt, Micki 
Kochanskyj, Janice McClure, Declan 
McCullagh
Staffwriters 
Matt Adler, Nicole Allen, Jason 
Andracki, Matt Ball, Jennifer Barkin, 
Kymberly M. Bartlo, David Bazelon, 
Allan Bourdius, Mahua Dutta, Jes
sica Fang, Andi Francioni, Shannon 
Gibney, Dan Goldwasser, Tom Harper, 
Edward Hayes, Jason Heinlein, Jus
tin Lam, Matthew Messner, Ronak 
Singhal, Jason Specland, Rhonda 
Struminger, Susan Stuart, Bethany 
Sutton, JenniferTumer, Mike Walker, 
John Weber, Kathleen Wright, Leslie 
Zubaty
Art
Gabrien Symons
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowitz, Dexter Kobayashi
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Kevin Chen, Bassem 
El-Dasher, Andrew Flores, Andrew 
McDermott, Pat Prasangsit, Jim 
Snyder, Maria Valenti
Darkroom 
Jon Confer, Tom Gilbert, Margaret 
Stallings
Production 
Becky Elroy, Ken Kraemer, Jason 
Ma, Carrie McDonough, Elizabeth 
Neuman, Eric Pettus, Jenna 
Sweterlitsch, Ron Yang
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Jennifer Forbes, 
Madhav Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, 
Yerin Kay, Lisa Kruglak, Ed Slavishak, 
Elizabeth Zambelli
Business 
Christa Bower, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Jin Bae, Robert Brunskill, Chandra 
Buist, Justin Carroll, Mimi Cheng, 
Kristen Connell, Seth A. Covitz, Amy 
Haupl, Kathy Liu, Angela Moiloy, 
Buck Neel, Jesse Nice, Lisa Steggles, 
Gabe Symons, Daniella Topol, Vivien 
Weiss, David White, Brian Young, 
Lenny Young
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. It Is a weekly newspaper pub
lished by students during the fall and spring semes
ters, at no cost to members of the University 
community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or academic year. The editorials appear
ing at the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of Tho Tartan editorial board. Col
umns and political cartoons are the opinions of 
individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political cartoon. 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter Intended for publica
tion must be signed and Include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. 
Copyright  1993 by The Tartan. The Tartan edito
rial board reseives the right to withhold from publi
cation ?ny copy it deems unfit for publication. 
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie Mel
lon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN U: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

WSmmmmmm::(Itilgifll
II IlSlf:'Going away for spring break?
Are you going to any of these cities?
Atlanta, GA 
Boston, MA 
Chicago, IL 
Cleveland, OH 
Columbus, OH 
Dallas, TX 
Denver/Boulder, CO 
Detroit, Ml
Houston, TX 
Indianapolis, IN 
Los Angeles, CA 
Miami, FL 
New York, NY 
Philadelphia, PA 
Portland, OR 
Princeton, NJ
Reading, PA 
Rochester, NY 
Phoenix, AZ 
St. Louis, MO 
St. Petersburg, FL 
Sarasota, FL 
San Francisco, CA 
Washington, D.C.
Carnegie Mellon University 
Alumni Clans can help you!
What is A Clan?
A Clan" is a Scottish word that describes a large and 
extended family unit.
At Carnegie Mellon a ''Clan" is a group of alumni who 
live in the same geographic region or share a common 
interest. This kind of group is also known as an Alumni 
Chapter or Club. The term Clan" is used at CMU to 
reflect the Scottish heritage and traditions of Andrew 
Carnegie.
The main purpose of a Carnegie Mellon clan is to 
promote regional activities that develop the alumni 
network and keep alumni informed and involved.
To get more information Call Paula DiGioia #8-1602  Alumni Relations Office
Finally something for college that just got less expensive.
Introducing the Apple Power Price Drop.Prices have just been growing needs. And as if that werent enough, youll also receive a $150
reduced on select Macintosh Quadra' models. Which means terrific mail-in rebate when you buy a Macintosh Quadra 650 with any Apple'
savings on some of Apples most powerful computers. Plus, the entire ' LaserWriter; So, visit your Apple Campus Reseller
Macintosh Quadra line is upgradable to PowerPC to keep up with your today. With prices this low, you cant afford not to.Apple
For further information visit 
the Campus Computer Store 
or call 935-5394
'<$rr<ilillbmitb.WIMtiriiMi\M/1>liivliti. Siv mirAullwriu-tlA/pit-iw/iiisKiwllcrfirikltiik Offermill nik-n1/mibibiliilbyhur. IW-iiw/mlir. Inc. All rii;b!snwrrctl. Apple. ibc A/fili'latyi. ljuvr\VriU-riuidMiicmla<b{)iiinlriiiin-n^L<lmKllrulmiuk<ofAfilrinipiilcr Inc. Ihiinrl^: L<ii InnliWiirLui/lnliriniliiml Viicbincs iijHiniliiiii. iiiitlcr liiviiA'Ibtnfr1''!
<

---------------------------------------------------

Hockey club falls in finalsRugby club opens year 2-0
Basketball season wraps up, March Madness strikes!
rl FRIIDAYMC H
H NV116
H CINCINNATI ifl
H WISCONSIN 19
H CAOFORN115
H WISC-GREEN B112 
i SYRACUS14
H HAWAII 113
H MINNESOTA] 6
H SniitiFBNIUlislH 
H LOUISVILLE 13
-I BOISE SW114
H VIRGINI7
ANGGELMOYp
H ARIZNI2
ANGOrosLed
11NQRTM CAROLINA h
16l LIBERTY ~H 
8| WASHINGTON ST. n
9l BOSTON nm I EGE P
5| INDIANA h
12IOHIO UNIVERSITY H
4TEMPLE h
13[ DREXFI H
6| NEBRASKA h
11| PENNSYLVANIA \-
3[FL0RI0A h
H PMES MAHISON |-
7IAB h
10fGEO.WASmNfTON H
2iCCINNFr.Tir.IIT h
15fl)ER h
In Your Face
by Seth A. Covitz
The time has come, grab a seat and 
some beer, strike up the band, the Big 
Dance is here! Are you ready for some 
history? I have a feeling this going to 
be the most memorable tournament 
ever. More excitement than you could 
ever imagine will begin this Thursday 
and continue for two weeks, until the 
1994 NCAA Champion is crowned in 
the Queen City of Charlotte, North 
Carolina.
The travel agents are making 
arragements. The coaches are scroung
ing for opponents game films. It is 
time to stop celebrating that confer
ence tournament victory and to start 
getting serious about what lies ahead. 
So lets not waste any time. Well start 
with the stats. The top conference rep
resented in this years tournament is 
the Big Ten with seven teams, fol
lowed by the Big East with six, and the 
ACC with five. The number one seeds 
include North Carolina with their re
cent and most difficult ACC Tourna
ment Championship. Purdue, who was 
one of two teams in the top eight to 
survive the final, upset-filled week
end that only Turns could be proud of. 
As a result, and due to their Big Ten 
regular season title, Purdue was 
awarded a top seed. Arkansas, who 
has held on to the Nations top ranking 
for what must have seemed like an 
eternity, was also granted a top seed, 
along with Missouri, who completed a 
regular season sweep through the Big 
Eight Conference.
Please see TOURNAMENT, page 10
WEST
18RY:30 CP
18$7Y.GEGDYR:.CP 
NTORUR:0SL0 h
rl ARKANSAS] 1
H NC A&T. CAROUNAST. 116 
H ILLINOSlfl
H GEORGETOWN 19
H UCL15
H TULSA 112
-I OKLAHOMA STATI4 
H NEW MEXICO STATEl 13
CHZZIS]6
H WESTERN KENTUCKY! 11 
-I MICHIGAN |3
H PEPPERDINE114
H SAINT LOUlsI 7
H MARYLAND] 10
i MASSACHUSETTS] 2
-I SW TEXAS ST115
YnwMcuilmfpCYmUa h 
tCmcm YA
HaN-CHATTAHOOGAtCMAFIQUErrE h
"^LOUISIANA ~>
350c'ky
,BCCII00I7.70CP
Em.hall V 
ziEZZZZZh
P'-$fILRS I7Z702 I$P
Ron Kurtl/Tartan art staff and Derek Wahila/Tartan Assistant Production Manager

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  14 March 1994
Sophomore runner earns 
first All-American honor
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Sophomore Missy Baustert, 
first time Division III All-American, set a new school record and a 
personal best over the 
weekend at .the NCAA 
Division III indoor track 
competition this week
end.
She was the only mem
ber of the CMU womens 
team to attend the com
petition.
This was my first time 
going to nationals. I was WBKBt 
really surprised with the 
results because at first I was just 
happy to be going. My goal was to 
get into the finals and be in the 
top six, Baustert said. The trials 
consisted of two races in which 
the top finishers were allowed to 
advance. Baustert won her heat 
in the trials, and moved on to
take second place in the 800- 
meter run. Her time was 2:16.56.
She ran an extremely aggres
sive race. Even though she was 
running against the top runners 
in the country in Division III comRb7 ycnt hnr ac yoa 
lCac amo AlCntr nCp so 
lC amo ac rlMe 9
 blrr7 wnirao2a5 
3b 2iCCo2
petition, she was not intimidated. 
She got right up in front from the 
very beginning of the race. She 
was step for step with the first 
place winner the whole time un
til the very end of the race, 
Bausterts coach, Dario Donatelli 
said.
Volleyball club takes 
third at CMU tourney
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The mens volleyball team wrapped up their 93-94 season on 
Saturday, March 12, with a six-team tournament in Skibo 
Gymnasium. Overall, CMU played exceptionally well, finishing 
in third place with a 9-3 record for the day.
Sophomore coach Chris Rotelli said, Weve come a long way 
since the beginning of the season. The passing was perfect all 
day and everyone really stepped up a level.
Other competition at the tournament included Case Western 
Reserve University, two USVBA teams called Nossoux and the 
Rude Dogs, and a University of Pittsburgh club team, Baldwin 
Alumni. There was also another CMU team in tournament play, 
comprised of CMU players who normally substitute for the 
starters.
After winning two very close games against Nossoux, 15-13, 
15-11, CMU played Baldwin in an exciting game. That was the 
match to watch, Rotelli said later. The teams split, with CMU 
winning the first game 15-13, then losing the second, 1715. 
Increasing the suspense in the second game, the score stayed at 
14-all for a number of side-outs. Despite the fact that Baldwin 
ended up winning the tournament, CMUs game against them 
was very even.
The CMU starters played their teammates in the third match 
of the tournament, winning 15-8 and 15-6. Case Western, a 
team they had never played before, was next. We were on a 
roll, Rotelli said about their wins: 15-8,15-7.
CMU fell apart against the Rude Dogs, a team of GSIA 
graduate students, but later turned things around in the semif.nals. CMU was losing 2-11, but made a tremendous comeback 
by the end of the game. The final score was 13-15.
I was really impressed with Eugene [Shen] and John 
[Warwick]. As freshmen, theyve really come a long way and 
have improved a lot over the season, Rotelli said. Since sopho
more Nate Heavey was hurt, Rotelli put Shen in for him as 
outside hitter.
Eugene did a great job on the outside. All day he was putting 
the ball down. His enthusiasm is great. Im looking forward to 
having them back next year, Rotelli said.
Also, sophomore setter Rob Gannon had a great day. Passes to 
him were very focused and controlled, allowing him to concen
trate on running plays.
About Gannon and senior captain Ed Pyo, Rotelli said, Rob 
made some good decisions on the court and both he and Ed really 
led the team.
Although the indoor season for the men is over, they expect to 
ran two outdoor tournaments on the cut later in the semester. 
Also, a USVBA tournament seems hopeful.
IM News
SPORTS IN SEASON 
WRESTLING
Commissioner: Paul Miller, x2-3392
The 1994 Intramural Real Man wrestling tournament will be 
held Saturday beginning at 10 am in the main gym of Skibo 
Gymnasium. Weigh-in for wrestlers will be held at 9:30 am and the 
matches will begin at 10. All students, faculty, and staff are invited 
to wrestle and all spectators are welcome.
SPORTS COMING UP
TEAM & CO-REC BADMINTON
The tournament date for badminton is today, beginning at 6:30 
pm.
THREE-ON-THREE BASKETBALL
This tournament will be held Tuesday and Wednesday in the gym, 
beginning at 6:30 pm each night. Schedules are posted on the IM 
bulletin board.
FOUL SHOOTING
The tournament will be held tonight and Thursday beginning at 
6:30 pm each night.
THREE-POINT SHOOTOUT
This event will be held Thursday, beginning at 6:30 pm.
Compiled by 
ERIC STRAUSS
Pair of swimmers achieve NCAA awards
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Two CMU swimmers, sophomore Rebecca Fruehan and senior 
Denise Fenwick, traveled to Williams College over the weekend 
for the NCAA meet. CMU finished in 16th place with a total of 59 
points. This was the highest finish ever, coach Jim Cutrone said.
Fenwick, All-American five times in her career, swam well.-She 
reached All-American times in the 200-yard individual medley 
(I.M.), the 100-yard breaststroke and the 200-yard breaststroke. 
In the 200 I.M., Fenwick had a personal best time of 2:12.77, 
placing 12th. She broke her own school record in the 200-yard 
breaststroke, finishing in eighth place with a time of 2:27.60.
It was a very intense meet. We beat Emory, which is always our 
biggest goal, and the whole atmosphere was very intense. Overall, 
it was very rewarding, Fenwick said.
Although Fenwick is a senior, shes not ready to retire. Even 
though she will be graduating in May, Fenwick has one more 
season of eligibility. I would like to do an independent study next 
year with a professor in the Social and Decision Sciences depart
ment and swim another season, Fenwick said.
Regarding the college training program, Fenwick said, It takes 
a lot of self discipline to say no to going out on the weekends. Its 
especially hard at a school like this with all the academic pressure, 
not to go out and have a good time. But, to focus all my energy 
towards a sport is very rewarding.
Fenwick, who was always very active in a number of sports in
high school, especially track and soccer, decided to focus her time 
on swimming when she came to CMU.
Fenwick plans on continuing.her training now that the season 
is over. Her future goal is to make the time cut for Senior 
Nationals held in Washington State this year. As a member of 
USS, United States Swimming, she is eligible to tryout for this 
competition.
Fruehan had three All-American times in her freestyle events. 
She placed fifth in both the 200 and 100-yard freestyle events with 
All-American and school record times of1:53.74 and 52.44, respec
tively. Also, in the 500-yard freestyle, an event she swam instead 
of the 50-yard event from last year, she came in ninth at 5:06.01.
Compared to last year, I improved in all the events. I worked 
harder than ever before with the program which is a little 
different than last year and tried a new event, the 500, Fruehan 
said. Being an endurance race, the 500-yard freestyle was much 
different than the 50 she swam last year.
Going into nationals, Fruehans goal was to get top six. And 
with two fifth place wins, she was, very pleased and happy to see 
my hard work pay off.
Another highlight of nationals was beating many of the UAA 
schools. Between Denise and me, we beat a lot of the UAA schools, 
like Emory University, Fruehan said.
Now, like Fenwick, she plans on continuing to work out. After 
such a long season, though, Im ready for a short break.
The swimmers on the mens team are now gearing up for their 
national competition, coming up this weekend.
Thrills galore 
cap IM night
INTRAMURALS, from page 9
The final outcome favored the 
SCS team as they topped Navy 
by a score of 38-37. The tempo of 
the game was evident by the halftime score, as the score was tied 
at 15-15, but with 24 seconds left 
to play, the SCS team took con
trol.
With two seconds left, SCS got 
the ball to staff member Larry 
Whiteherse, who scored the win
ning basket as the horn sounded 
to send the Navy team to a disap
pointing defeat.
Although there were winners 
and losers, all got to participate 
in one of the most exciting nights 
in CMU Intramurals history.
In the Minor League title game, 
played March 8, the Theta Xi 
Suns downed the PhiKap Verti
cals to win the title.
Hockey ends 
on sour note
HOCKEY, from page 9
With 4:15 left in the game, CMU 
got a golden opportunity when 
Pipke was called off for tripping. 
Unfortunately, there wasnt any 
magic left in the Tartan power 
play and they failed to score. 
Umland called time out with 1:35 
remaining in a last-ditch attempt 
to get his team back into the game. 
Berry was pulled for an extra 
attacker at the last minute, but 
the Tartans could not convert.
The 5-3 loss to the Mountain
eers was CMUs second consecu
tive defeat in the WPCHA finals.
Rugby club opens year
RUGBY, from page 9
in favor of CMU.
Wheeling then tried to advance 
the ball back into CMU territory 
but scrappy play allowed rookie 
forward Rishi Kummar to gain 
possession of the ball and score 
again for CMU.
At this point a break in CMIPs 
concentration led to the Wheel
ing ruggers advancing the ball 
and setting up on the CMU try 
line for a score.
A fine effort by Wheeling ended 
in no avail as CMU was able to 
stop their advance and push the 
ball back down the field.
Again the speed and agility of 
CMUs backs were displayed as 
junior Brant Soudan cut his way 
through to the Wheeling try line. 
As a defender was quickly pursu
ing, Soudan, showing his rugby 
skill and savvy, made a good move 
and dove from three meters out 
to place the ball in the try zone, 
making the score 31-7.
In the closing minutes of the 
game, CMU again found itself on 
the Wheeling try line. Heads-up 
play allowed for a break after a 
line out for the final try of the 
game.
The final score at this point 
was 38-7. CMU improved its 
record to an unbeaten 2-0, a good 
start to this season.
Regional matchups should thrill
TOURNAMENT, from page 9 
EAST REGIONAL
Th East regional begins with 
a Bible Belt matchup between 
UNC and Liberty. Jerry Falwell 
was impressed as he cut down 
the Flames nets but it wont be 
enough to stop the Tarheels, 
who are poised to win their 
second straight NCAA title. If 
anyone had doubts early on 
about the Heels, they are noth
ing but ashes as the Heels have 
picked the right time to gel into 
a fine basketball team. Another 
interesting matchup pairs In
diana, losers of five out of their 
last seven games, and Ohio, a 
team that has played the big 
teams this season and won. If 
the Hoosiers rest on their lau
rels, Bobby Knight wont be able 
to say enough about Ohios Gary 
Trent as the year in upsets pro
ceeds full throttle.
In the end however, the East 
regional is going to resemble 
the Big East-ACC challenge 
with UConn and UNC playing 
in a nail-biter. Give UNC the 
edge, though, with a deep bench 
that can expend five players on 
Donyell Marshall alone (if they 
wanted to), and another voy
age to the final four for Dean 
Smith and company. 
SOUTHEAST REGIONAL
The Southeast regional looks 
to be most difficult, with so 
many teams having so much to 
prove. Purdue wants to top off 
an already brilliant season with 
a Final Four appearance. Provi
dence wants to show the show
the nation that their Big East 
tourney title was no joke.
This regional could also be la
beled as the Deja Vu regional. 
Chances are that Duke will again 
meet Seton Hall, and Duke could 
again face Kentucky. Id hate to 
be present in the Florida Suncoast 
Dome, when Grant Hill of Duke 
hits a three-pointer with less than 
a second left to once again douse 
the Wildcats hopes.
Out of the Southeast, expect 
the biggest matchup to be Purdue 
vs. Wake Forest down the road. 
The winner will face Duke or 
Marquette, and if it is Wake For
est, they have beaten Duke twice 
already this season; threes a 
charm for the Demon Deacons. 
WEST REGIONAL
The West regional looks to be 
one of the most hyped regionals 
with teams such as California, 
Missouri, Louisville, Minnesota, 
and Arizona, all of whom have 
had articles in Sports Illustrated 
this year. This one can be auyones 
regional for the taking. I believe 
the pivotal game in this region 
will be California vs. WisconsinGreen Bay. California at times 
this season has shown never-end
ing grace and poise but has.also 
been known to play down to their 
opponents. Wisconsin-Green Bay 
is a remarkable team that is 
doesnt fear any team.
Minnesota has shown that they 
can be impressive at home this 
year, but the road has been shaky. 
Louisville may have the best 
starting five in college basket
ball. Look for a fascinating second-rounder with Minnesota 
Louisville. Arizona won the PAC10 this year and took a sigh of 
relief as the surfer-boys of Santa 
Clara are nowhere to be found in 
this years tourney.
In the end, I believe California, 
who hasnt lost on national tele
vision this year, will bring the 
Jason Kidd-Lamond Murray 
show to center stage in Char
lotte.
MIDWEST REGIONAL
The Midwest regional is the 
second most difficult regional 
overall compared to the South
east. This regional has it all  
intriguing first-round matchups, 
and plenty of big names to throw 
around. This regional gives the 
folks in Vegas heartburn. Just 
look at Illinois vs. Georgetown, or 
Deon Thomas vs. Othella 
Harrington. Looking for an upset 
in all ofthis mess, check out Tulsa 
vs. UCLA. A good Tulsa team will 
face a slumping Bruin team,
In the end, however, the 
strength of Arkansas and UMass 
will surpass the pretenders and 
this game might even be better 
than the Championship game it
self. The Minutemen have beaten 
Temple three times, and alv 
seem to rise to the challenge. The 
Razorbacks, however, will have 
had a cake-walk until they face 
UMass.
Seths Final Four Picks: 
UNC, Purdue, California, ArkanSeth A. Covitz is a sophomore 
computer science major.
classified
JOBSHOUSING
Agents  No Experience. Company 
expanding  SI 2-18 hr. + bonuses. 
Send Sase for details to: Interna
tional,! 375 Coney Island Ave., Ste 427 
Brooklyn, NY 11230.
Greeks and Clubs: Earn $50 - $250 for 
yourself plus up to $500 for your club! 
This funraiser costs nothing and lasts 
one week. Call now and receive a free 
gift. 1-800-932-0528 ext.65
COLLEGE ENTREPRENEURS  A
collegiate wholesaling company is 
piloting a new program at Carnegie 
Mellon. Students will have the opportu
nity to retail college products at 
wholesale prices including t-shirts, 
pillows, etc. For more information please 
call 1-800-537-4355 ask for EFI 
program.
COURSE JNFO
ENGINEERING & ARCHITECTURAL 
STUDENTS: Enhance your skills and 
employment opportunities by learning 
Computer-aided Drafting & Design 
(CADD) at Pittsburgh Technical Institute. 
Short-term (6 weeks) evening classes 
start monthly. For information contact 
Carmen Sporio at 232-3940.
Summer sublet and fall rental. North 
Oakland furnished one bedroom and 
efficiency apartments. Close to campus. 
On campus shuttle bus route. Very clean 
and spotless. Spacious bookshelves. 
Roomy closets. Secure apartment 
buildings. From $230. Call 683-0776
Roommate needed M/F for large 
furnished home in quiet residential area 
of Squirrel Hill. Call Dave, 421-0166, 
daytime.
TRAVEL
SPRING BREAK 1994 Cancn, Bahamas, 
Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest 
Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends 
and your trip is free! TAKE A BREAK 
STUDENT TRAVEL (800) 328-7283
Classified Rates
1-20 words.............$5.00 / wk
21-50 words..........$8.00 /wk
51-100 words....$10.00/wk
Classifieds must be paid in 
cash or by check before the 
first-scheduled run date.
On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number.
Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication.
Mise
Free money for school... well almost! 
Scholarships Guaranteed  Risk Free. 
Appointments only: Battista's Educational 
Endowment Fund Find (BEEFF) 531 - 
6862.
A humanist chaplain is available for nontheistic personalized weddings, ceremo
nies, and discussions. Phone: 781-7205.
WANTED
Townsend Booksellers. We buy 
thousands of worthwhile books in all 
scholarly and technical subjects and the 
arts. Best prices paid or generous trade 
credit. Visit us for out-of-print, used, and 
rare books. Open daily: Monday  
Saturday, llam-6 pm, Sunday 1-5pmNear campus at 4612 Henry St. (off S. 
Craig) 682-8030.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  14 March 199411
k Dodger blue to win West over Giants
The Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
Well, here we are, a mere three weeks 
from the big day, so I feel it is 
to remind all you baseball 
when the results are finally in, 
read it here first!
I decided that this week would be a 
venmore appropriate week to mention 
for this week we focus our attention 
vision about which everybody is 
Its already wrapped up  the 
League West. Well, forget evelse, because this is one writer 
claims that the San Francisco Giwill not win the N.L. West in 1994. 
you begin the calls to Western 
however, read on 
discover the reasons why I make 
this bold claim.
Colorado Rockies: Where else can a 
team go that has just added Howard 
Johnson, Ellis Burks, Walt Weiss, and 
pitchers Mike Harkey and Marvin Free
man to a roster which already features 
premier names such as Andres 
Galarraga, Charlie Hayes, and Dante 
Bichette? Apparently, nowhere but up. 
Dont look now, but before the baseball 
world knows it, this team will be a con
tender, and will probably become one 
faster than any other expansion team in 
the history of baseball.
The reason I say this is because the 
Rockies have a luxury that no expansion 
team has ever had, and that many of 
todays established teams still lack  
money. The seemingly endless fanbase 
that the Rockies have built since their 
inception has allowed them the revenue 
to spend on names such as the afore
mentioned and to retain the stars that 
they already have, such as Galarraga.
I am not predicting miracles this year, 
but I am saying that the Rockies have 
the potential to stay in the thick of things 
for most of the season. The new, im
proved starting eight of the Rockies will
definitely be strong enoughfor the team 
to be able to endure the growing pains 
that the Rockies young arms (Dave Neid, 
Armando Reynoso, John Burke, Kent 
Bottenfield) will continue to go through. 
Given time, however, this young rota
tion (especially Neid and Burke) could 
reach star status.
Combine this with a rejuvenated 
bullpen led by closer Darren Holmes, 
who has really come into his own, and 
one will most likely see a Rockies team 
which will have its act to
gether, especially towards 
the end of the year.
Los Angeles Dodgers:
Two years ago, when the 
Dodgers lost over 90 
games, Dodger blue sud
denly took on a sickly white 
color, and suddenly every
body was calling for the 
end of longtime Dodger 
icon Tommy Lasordas ca
reer. So not only did last 
years 81-81 record put 
some faith back in Dodger 
fans, but it also most likely 
saved Lasordas job.
Now, as Lasorda nears 
the end of his illustrious 
career, he has one goal in 
mind, and that is to go out 
with a winner. This years 
Dodgers team may just 
give him that chance.
With a lineup that is cen
tered around the last two 
Rookie of the Year Award 
recipients, Mike Piazza 
and Eric Karros, the Dodg
ers have an already im
posing lineup which could 
really turn into a power
house this year if a healthy 
Daryl Strawberry, a one 
time prolific home run hit
ter, can avoid his off-field 
troubles and concentrate on playing base
ball. Add to that the newly acquired 
speedster, Delino DeShields, and the 
Dodgers could feature an extremely ver
satile lineup.
If Strawberry doesnt pan out, though, 
the Dodgers could at least bank on the 
most reliable facet of their teamtheir 
pitching staff. Although not spectacu
lar, the Dodgers still feature five arms in 
Martinez, OrelHershiser, Pedro Astacio, 
Tom Candiotti, and Kevin Gross, who 
can all win at least 12 games and pitch 
200 innings. The constant durability of 
the Dodgers starting five has also al
ways allowed the Dodgers to feature a 
powerful bullpen in the late innings; 
this year should be no different, espe
cially since Todd Worell will probably 
regain his closer form some time this
The addition of DeShields will help in 
more ways than one, for DeShields will 
also act as a guide to help young short
stop Jose Offerman to continue to de
velop, thus shoring up the Dodger de
fense ip the middle. The team has also 
taken out Strawberry insurance by de
veloping several strong outfield pros
pects in Billy Ashley, Raul Mondesi and
Henry Rodriguefe. So although it would 
be a surprise to this writer if Strawberry 
doesnt pan out, the Dodgers may be able 
to win this without him.
San Diego Padres: The Padres play
ers, management, and fans can put their 
faith in one simple fact  after one hits 
rock bottom (which is exactly what the 
Padres did last year), there is no where 
to go but up. But the facts must be faced, 
and the fact is that although there will 
be improvement over last year, this is a 
bad team and it will be a 
while before they can 
even consider contend
ing.
After conducting a fire 
sale last year in order to 
stay financially afloat, 
the Padres resembled 
their Triple A Las Ve
gas team, rather than a 
real major league team. 
Before you start to write 
the Padres completely 
off the face of the earth, 
though, remember that 
through all the absurd 
deals that the Padres did 
make last year, they did 
windup acquiring a slew 
of prospects that in a 
couple of years could be 
the nucleus of a solid 
team. The Padres also 
still possess their share 
of star players, starting 
with perennial all star 
Tony Gwynn, up and 
comers Derek Bell and 
Phil Plantier, and the 
newly acquired Bip Rob
erts. Given a couple of 
years, as Gwynn and 
Roberts near the end of 
their careers, Dave
Staton, Archi CianGabrlen Symons/Tartan art staff Me)vin Nieves>
and Ricky Guiterrez should become im
pact players.
The pitching staff also follows the same 
suit, for although the Padres do feature 
a true staff ace in Andy Benes, there is 
not much after that  or at least not 
now. Andy Ashby, Tim Mauser, Donnie 
Elliott, and Trevor Hoffman all have the 
ability to be successful in the majors.
Furthermore, it was only after his re
turn to San Diego near the end of last 
season that former ace closer Mark Davis 
began to show signs of his former self.
Other teams should also keep their 
eyes on the Padres for a few years now; 
the Padres could pass right by them if 
they keep a closed lid.
San Francisco Giants: Reason num
ber one the Giants will not win the N.L. 
West: losing Will Clark will hurt more 
than they think. Reason number two: 
the addition of pitcher Mark Portugal 
will not offset the loss of Clark.
Dont get me wrong, the Giants are a 
good team  any team featuring Barry 
Bonds is automatically a good team. But 
the Giants did not pay attention in his
tory class, for several years ago when 
the Giants featured a lineup with Clark, 
Matt Williams, and Kevin Mitchell, the 
lineup fell apart after Mitchells depar
ture. Relate this to the effects of the loss 
of Clarkpitchers can now pitch around 
either Williams or Bonds. Furthermore, 
although the Giants have a bonafide 
prospect in J.R. Phillips to take the place 
of Clark, he will most likely take time to 
get his feet wet.
One must also realize that though the 
addition of Mark Portugal (18-4 last 
year with the Astros) was beneficial, five 
of Portugals wins were against the Gi
ants; he is now being taken away from 
the pitcher-friendly Astrodome  the 
only place Portugal has ever had suc
cess. Consider, also, the facts that John 
Burkett probably will not win 22 games 
again this year, and Trevor Wilson and 
Bud Black are still hurt, and the start
ing staff is looking shaky.
Of course, if Phillips comes through 
this year and both Wilson and Black 
return soon, then the division is for man
ager Dusty Baker to give away. But the 
chances of that happening and the 
strength of the opposition dictate that 
the Giants probably will not come close 
to their 103 wins of last year.
Projected order of finish in the N.L. 
West: 1) Los Angeles Dodgers; 2) San 
Francisco Giants; 3) Colorado Rockies; 
4) San Diego Padres.
Anuj Gupta is a sophomore chemical 
engineering major.
Hockey teams wheel and 
deal at trading deadline
UNFORTUNATELY THIS IS WHERE 
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING 
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.
Every year, a lot of people make a 
huge mistake on their taxes. They 
don't take advantage of tax deferral and 
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they 
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, thats a mistake you can 
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. 
SRAs not only ease your current taxbite, they offer a remarkably easy wav 
to build retirement incomeespecially 
for the "extras that your regular pension 
and Social Security benefits may not 
cover. Because your contributions are 
madein belore-tax dollars, you pay less 
taxes now. And since all earnings on 
vour SRA are tax-deferred as well, the
money you dont send to Washington 
works even harder for you. Down the 
road, that can make a dramatic difference 
in your quality of life.
What else makes SRAs so special?
A range of allocation choicesfrom the 
guaranteed security of TlAA to the 
diversified investment accounts ol 
CREF's variable annuityall backed 
by the nations number one retirement 
system.
Why write off the chance for a more 
rewarding retirement? Call today and 
learn more about how TIAA-CREF 
SRAs can help you enjoy many 
happy returns.
Benefit now fiv?n tax deferral. Call our SRA hotline 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it!
 <>utr,buU,l Av TIAA-CREF ln,k 
, JIMHW227. e.xt. S0!h for
itkm I am1 litJlilulunial Strvteu. For more iiimpltle in 
l projpediu. Rejil tie projptctu.' aire fully he fore you
or nuit ion, incluihny biiryr.' a,
(Shanahan, from New Jersey), 
they lost a superstar in return: 
defenseman Scott Stevens.
St. Louis also added some ex
perience to their lineup by sign
ing unrestricted free agent Peter 
Stastny. Stastny, the 17th alltime leading scorer, played for 
his home nation of Slovakia in 
the Winter Olympics. Stastny has 
been without a contract since 
being released by the New Jersey 
Devils at the end of last season. 
He will reportedly receive 
$180,000 for the remaining games 
this season and $1 million 
each of the next two seasons.r
the real key player in this deal is 
probably Bautin. In him, the Red 
Wings pick up a strong, stay-athome defensman who doesnt al
low turnovers and who gives more 
balance to an attack-oriented 
defensive corps.
Hartford Whalers GM Paul 
Holmgren jumped whole hog into 
the switch-a-roo game this week. 
On Thursday, he sent forward 
Michael Nylander and defensemen James Patrick and Zarley 
Zalapski to the Calgary Flames 
for offensive point man Gary 
Suter and forwards Paul 
Ranheim and Ted Drury. Suter 
laced up his skates for the Whal
ers in a 4U-0 shutout loss to the 
Devils on Thursday night and 
then packed his bags for Chicago. 
Holmgren dealt the just-acquired 
Suter to the Blackhawks Friday 
with veteran winger Randy
The Puck Stops Here
by Allan Bourdlus
The St. Louis Blues signed 
Vancouver Canucks holdout freeagent center Petr Nedved a week 
ago Friday to an undisclosed con
tract. Nedved had been asking 
for a multiple year contract worth 
at least $1.5 million per year. He 
should easily jump into the num
ber two center slot with the Blues 
behind star centerman Craig 
Janney if he is not traded. Nedved, 
a naturalized Canadian citizen, 
represented his adopted nation 
at the Winter Olympics. He was 
Team Canadas second-highest 
scorer behind Anaheim Mighty 
Ducks prospect Paul Kariya in 
their silver medal performance.
Because Nedved is a Group I 
free agent, St. Louis must offer 
the Canucks a compensating deal. 
While no details have been pub
licly released, its rumored that 
the Blues have offered Vancouver 
center Craig Janney and a sec
ond or third-round draft pick. 
Janney has 15 goals and 55 as
sists for 71 points on the season; 
he could be the perfect set-up 
man for Canuck snipers Pavel 
Bure and Trevor Linden. How
ever, it appears that Vancouver 
Jsnt willing to settle for Janney. 
The rumor has the Canucks askmgfor superstar winger Brendan 
Shanahan. Its likely the com
pensation issue will have to be 
decided by an arbitrator. St. Louis 
has to be nervous, considering 
their past history in free agent 
arbitration. The last time the 
Blues signed a major free agent
Cunneyworth for defender 
Frantisek Kucera and agitator 
Jocelyn Lemieux. At first, the 
Calgary-Hartford trade didnt 
make a whole lot of sense for the 
Whalers. However, the acquisi
tion of Kucera gives the Whalers 
some badly needed grit on the 
blueline. This season is already 
pretty much over for the Whalers 
(theyre 14 points out of a playoff 
spot); the future is starting to 
look bright.
One very interesting rumor re
ported in The Hockey News has 
Pittsburghs Jaromir Jagr going 
to New Jersey for sophomore 
defenseman Scott Niedermayer.
Its highly unlikely that this 
deal is actually being considered 
since would create more prob
lems than it would fix. With the 
deadline March 21, though, more 
deals could happen.
Allan Bourdius is a fifth-year 
senior double majoring in applied 
history and industrial manage
ment.
Gabrlen Symons/Tartan art staff 
37 year old Stastny has scored 
444 goals and 1221 points in 13 
NHL seasons with Quebec and 
New Jersey.
Detroit finally pulled the trig
ger on the goaltending deal that 
has been rumored all season. Tim 
Chevaldae, the subject of unre
lenting fan abuse in the Motor 
City, went to the Winnipeg Jets 
with center Dallas Drake for 
goalie Bob Essensa and defense
man Sergei Bautin. While the 
goalie swap isnt a real surprise,
;vrX
\\\\wS'

---------------------------------------------------

!
Romeo, Romeo, 
wherefore art thou
Romeo?
Im at Greek Sing!
GREEK SING
MARCH 18, 1994  6:45 pm
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall; call 268-2107 for directions
Tickets available at Skibo Information Desk and at the door
All proceeds to benefit the American Diabetes Association

---------------------------------------------------

: III 
NATION,
AMERICA'S FAVORITE DESIGN & LITERARY RAG
whist 1 w rote!"
MIRACLE 
SHOCKER
THE BAUHAUS WAS RIGHT!

---------------------------------------------------

dossierI
DESIGN C LITERARY RAG Modernism is the host organism and
uve
Design Editor: Ryan J. McGinness ..  . . . ,jive Modernism is the parasite
Literary Editor: Aimee Beal The Chinese New Year was a few weeks ago. In its honor,
Literary Editor: Gerry DeSeve that feeds off of '*  -Like a real
I thought I'd do some soul-searching and re-assessing
parasite, jive Modernism doesnt care
Remember the scene in Airplane in which an unassuming middle-aged white(I don't believe in resolutions). What do I want for Dossier?
about what the host organism thinks.
I woman surprises everyone with her reassurance, dont worry. I speak jive"?Dossier5: aint no jive, each poem in this issue of dossier is presented What am I trying to do? Here's what I discovered:
I really have nothing to write, due to a It doesnt care about Modernisms
"Jive" connotes Black English, the language spoken primarily bytwiceeach designed." by a different person, it is in this compare and I want people to read it. Lots of people, not just our writers 
generally uninspiring February. So, in the place politics or philosophy or anything
African-American cultures: and it implies the trouble other cultural groups havecontrast way that i hope to revealjust some of the biases constantly and designers and their most loyal friends. I want 
of some speech on dental hygiene or Ponce that might be below the surface of
u  j . . processing messages and texts composed in Black English. But what aboutconstructed through design. decisions and interpretations are being freshmen and grads, engineers, musicians, computer 
deLeon, I have decided to share some images the look...Jive Modernism is very
students who "speak jive" at home and must e-ssentially master another form ofmade for you whenever visual information is presented, were the programmers, historians, architects, biology teachers, 
from my pocket notebook. Hopefully you can useful in graphic design, in politics,
English for school? Unfair as it may be. standard (read: "white) English ismodernists justified in their strive for a universal presentation for all philosophy teachers, library staff, people on the 5th floor of
gleen (sic) something from them. in advertising, in fashion, in films. It
privileged as the language of choice by American educators, most likely due toinformation? have those formal ideas become so diluted that today they Warner Hall... I also want creative writers, both faculty 
A child with a glass eye who likes to take it out feeds into prevailing Reaganesque
, . tradition and a need for a "default" vehicle for spoken and writtenserve only as a device? what happens when that information"is and students. I want everybody to read Dossier! So maybe 
and swallow it. Burning parade float. What is it conservatism in America, which seeks
communication. In the classroom, dialects like Black English are rarely used. subjective and open to interpretation, and then interpreted visually for I'm a tiny bit optimistic. In any case, the only way I know
like to see yourself frequently on TV? solace in images whose
. . While teachers' need for a widely understandable form of our language is verythe reader?finally, when that information" is not subjective, how is that to get anybody to read anything is: make it good and make it 
Apocalypse of entropy. Liquescent. Nuclear familiarity is comforting.
t / f real, so is the importance of developing in students self-knowledge and ethicinformation best objectively visually communicated, and who is the voice interesting. A well-written poem will attract a writer, 
sublime. Mute poetry. Dada slapstick Sesame Tibor Kalman
confidence."Laura Davisbehind that communication?Ryan J. McGinness and an interesting poem will attract... well, anyone! I'm looking 
Street. Convent explosion. Paloma Valero
for unusual stories, captivating images, arresting word 
(wherever you are, you have a beautiful name).
choices, thought-provoking metaphors. I know you have them. 
Blood breath or urine? Rainingrainingraining.
so here's my message: Submit! This Dossier Poetry Editor is 
Gerry DeSeve
selective, desperate, and wants the work you have to offer!
Aimee Beal

---------------------------------------------------

<oHl5 b7 Pon bcCrao2
Words: Megan Dietz 
Design: Jen Zieserl 
Design: Tony deFigio
Jn2TlralT Gtoy7 cA bnC >2orrop lC wtnT!
Words: Michael Kunsmann 
Design: Brett Snyder 
Design: Jen McPhilimy
dn11n1oa5 'iClrln bn2Tm 5S
Words: Troy Benowitz 
Design: sycamore 
Design: John Ferris
n(ifad
for issue #6marci
wn2cjio
Words: Sara Sterling 
Design: Tim Bahash 
Design: Jean Koeppel

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

. i&$p|
sometimes, somehow, gets out of his tank at night and 
swims up past my ear, past my eustachian tube, 
into my brain.
Well, actually, the fluid surrounding it.
He feels at home, he says, in my bodys 
warm, salty sea.
He cuddles my neurons and kisses my headaches better 
and he tells me fantastic stories, 
whispered stories 
about stingrays and anemones and blowfish and magnificent 
configurations of coral 
and shells 
and sand.. '
I repay him with tales of duty and lost love told by fatty bodies and hemoglobin
as they rush to serve us exquisite and nourishing meals. 
When I crush my eyes closed and concentrate,
I can see him back there is perfect profile, 
furling and unfurling his tail 
and staring back at me with 
one unblinking eye.

---------------------------------------------------

Ref ormcit
ci mrpscm cen cal ma 2aTi h
his way*
mci ci fcaliC cen g
lca ma mtpfm rC lca ma crmiM h 
lci cef namcit 2im cen 
ci 2irtiC rsre1
al ci4f 2afm 9rttDes mci 9taff 
a rmcit
cef ca2D scafm ltriC rtapC 
his neck
meiC e r 3am rC 3iif cef 
cirCtan r22es a1
rmcit4f 7aCD rC 72aaC
7rme5if mci stapC
rC cef fa mci latn
mteif ma sim lrtn 
9tiies mci irtmc
e fi9ptiC remc1
Gci
e r e
le22 Dap
hearing 
le22 Dap
le22 Dap
Elegy 
9a2C 
lrtn ni
n i
ca2C ni
map9c ni
7pm Dap Ca4m pCitfmrC 
e Dapt crC nD fr2Trmea 
rmcit iTit ma2C ni 
mcrm iTitDai
lap2CmptrlrD

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Tmr
^\M;
{^mmrn, IWW?
'il^HliW^tf (WAp*'-
wml (tuwtwamiM.
^ Wwuw-ym. mm, Mm . 
vwt M(/ no TartnS ' 
&Mw*Wto0&-
1mmk\
h|1
................... 'il V ^Swi

---------------------------------------------------

Haramamet, Tunisia 
March 17, I3
Dear Mother,
sitting on your soiled couch 
in Ogdensburg, New York, 
thinking it's 1978
there is miniature golf in Africa.
It's a nice course, too, 
set out in pale blue and cream white. 
There's even a hole that comes 
several inches off the ground.
It's like weather from Ogdensburg, Mom 
There are no vacationing 
Swedes and Germans.
They must be all downstairs 
playing match stick poker 
over their rumand-Cokes .
A path leads out of Club Tanfous, 
away from the fat, shirtless Germans. 
Today, it is too cold for swimming 
but the beach is cluttered 
with old men in jellebas 
and young Arab boys in ievis 
hawking silver and gold earrings, 
stuffed toy camels made in Taiwan, 
and salt crystals from El Ejemm. 
They'll charge as much as a dinar 
for a stuffed toy camel 
thinking they've ripped you off 
and you'll be thinking you got 
the best deal of your life.
The Arab hawkers never come
up the path to Club Tanfous, Mother,
and they never play miniature golf.

---------------------------------------------------

baroque
by /arah /terLiN<3
sn^o-iq. paq.s'BiA Hvr/A paq/BOO aq iftiA iiatiq.
atio -iq atio q.no raaq!). und x Ha 
rmae STq^. anop siXAa aqq. aAjosqB
paa^aABoaj s"[aA\aC 03: atrxnr 13 o;).ax 
uxxs ^jbp q^.ooras SnxxdBq.s sxxb tjobb
SXXB sq.x UO qjo H0B9
apxsux siJBad iui jtBa,". x ^Bpoq.
iJBpxdBI q.J3A0 SS3I B o \
q.soi sx Bjame-qda iBH.1a3.xa 
ntam ass ubo saA-ian Am R.\u.o ajat[M paxxnq
apxsuT sx^Bad nr Clasis f /Sspod
today i wear ray pearls inside
today i wear my pearls inside
buried, where only my nerves can see them 
external ephemera is lost 
to a less overt lapidary
each orb on its axis 
each axis stapling smooth dark skin 
into a mine for jewels recaverned
they absolve the evils done this day 
as i pull them out one by one
they will be coated with wasted troths

---------------------------------------------------

<5! < 5 J > i 5 ! >'  !i !       > S j   i  ? ? ' s ;  1 i    i  !  :

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

rara nra ram Kin ini raLI Vili VT
/olume 88, Issue 20The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania14 March 1994
Women's issues explored on campus
y SHANNON GIBNEY
irtan Staffwriter
As the University community 
kes part in the lectures, discuson groups, and general celebraons in honor of National 
romens History Month, we may 
ell exist in utter ignorance of 
vast array of organizations 
iat put on these activities, and 
services they provide for 
omen year round. Some of these 
ganizations include: Women in 
ontraditional Graduate Studs (WINGS), The Society of 
omen Engineers (SWE), 
'omen in Science (WIS), The 
romens Information Network 
VIN), and the Womens Center, 
hese groups provide support, 
etworking, and various specialed services for women at CMU, 
nd are a valuable resource for 
reryone.
The Womens Center, founded 
1990 by various members of 
he campus community, is an or
ganization dedicated to addressng and dealing with all issues 
oncerning women, from child 
are to sexism.
I think that the most impor
tant thing about the Womens 
Center right now is the physical 
ispace thats dedicated to the en
hancement of womens lives at 
CMU... The Womens Center op
erates as a collective. There is no 
hierarchy, we talk things out so 
that everyone feels comfortable 
speaking, and no one feels that 
[their needs are being disre
garded, said Donna Riley, an 
active participant in the Womens 
Center. She added that the cen
ter also has an extensive library 
on gender studies and feminism, 
and is an excellent resource for 
students.
Riley is also a member of 
WINGS (Women in Nontraditional Graduate Studies), a group 
thatwas formedinl990. WINGS 
is primarily a discussion and sup
port group for women graduates. 
This year they have a planned 
speaker series, to talk about top
ics such as child care, or the two 
body problem (a situation in 
which both the man and woman 
of the house work and try to run 
a household at the same 
time)...What WINGS tries to do 
is provide mentors for women and 
create an environment in which 
they can talk about issues con
cerning them.
Women in Science, founded in 
1991, died, and was resurrected 
by a group of te
nacious under
graduates in 
1993. Tara 
Haughton, one 
coordinatorof the 
group, stated the 
purpose of the or
ganization as be
ingthreefold: To 
support the fall 
participation of 
women in sci
ence, create a 
network of sup
port and a sense 
of community for 
Carnegie Mellon 
women pursuing 
the study of sci
ence, and to en
courage pre-col
lege girls to pur
sue careers in sci
entific fields. The 
group meets ev
ery Wednesday 
from6:30 to 7:30 
pm in the Wo
mens Center, for 
anyone inter
ested in joining.
SWE (The So
ciety of Women 
Engineers) also . 
focuses on sup
porting women in 
science, although 
it is more con
cerned with pro
fessional issues as opposed to the 
campus climate.
Judy Kane (NMR Center for 
Biomedical Research), describes 
WIN (The Womens Information 
Network) as: ...an umbrella for 
womens organizations on cam
pus. It serves as a means for the 
exchange of information on is
sues of concern to Carnegie 
Mellon women in order to pro
mote unity and cohesiveness, and 
increase awareness and partici
pation in initiatives of mutual 
interest ... March is History of
Women month and we have pro
moted the first eCMU Celebrates j; 
Women, event on March 22. 1 
Kane added that WIN currently  
has 14 different groups partici- 
pating.
Although there is no denying : 
that each of the many organiza[ 
tions for women on campus aid 
considerably in acknowledging 
and providing support for these ; 
problems, many women still feel ; 
that the University has a long \ 
way to go before womens issues j 
Please see WOMEN, page L3 i
CMU Celebrates 
Women 94 events
March 14: The Margaret Morrison Era: A History of Female 1 
Scientists at CMU.
' March 17: Sister Talk Vera Hubbard, poet.
Wherret Room, 5 pm
March 18: The Carnegie Mellon Womens Association, in 
honor ofCMU Celebrates Women 1994, presents to the Hunt 
Library Where We Stand: WomenPoets on Literary Tradition 
edited and with an introduction by Sharon Bryan. It will be on 
the New Book Display Shelf.
March 18: Monthly lunch for women Ph. D. students and 
faculty, by invitation (Women in Non-Traditional Graduate 
Studies)
Faculty Lounge, 12-2 pm
March 18: Ellen Currie, fiction writer: Adamson Wing, 8 pm
March 21: Reading and Recitations Nikki Giovanni, poet. 
Ballroom, 7 pm
March 22: Gretchen Kalonji, Kyocera Professor of Materials 
Science, University of Washington-Seattle, speaks at Materi
als Science and Engineering Seminar, 3:30 pm
March 22: CMU celebrates women: Definitions of Success: A 
Handful of Stories
Skibo, 4:45 - 7 pm
March 23: Informal lunch discussion with Gretchen Kalonji, 
professor of Materials Science at Washington State University. 
(Women in Non-Traditional Graduate Studies)
Baker Hall 129, EPP Conference Room, 12 noon
For further information on CMU Cel
ebrates Women 94 call either Student 
Affairs, X8-2075 or the Women's Cen
ter, x8-3595, or email women+@andrew
Daniel Frey/ Tartan Darkroom Manager
Lecture relates five women's inspiring stories
By TONYA RADO
Tartan Staffwriter
To build an awareness of the changing role of women in society, 
H&SS sponsored a lecture titled The Empowerment of Women and 
its Effect on Academia, last Thursday in the Adamson Wing. A panel 
of five women shared how the changing role of women has effected 
their discipline and individual, career paths.
The participants in the panel included Neolette Conway, executive 
director of Green Design Initiative; Roberta Klatzky, head of the 
Psychology Department at CMU; Patricia Laughlin, associate dean 
of the Carnegie Insitute of Technology (CIT); Kristina Straub, 
associate professor of Literary and Cultural Studies.
Each of the five women had interesting and inspirational stories 
to share. Born and raised in Ireland, Conway talked about her 
mothers experiences growing up and going to school in Ireland and 
compared them to her own. At the time of graduation, her mother 
was faced with three career choices: becoming a nurse, a teacher, or 
a secretary. Similar to 60 or 70 percent of the women in her class, 
she chose to pursue a secretarial position after high school. Conway, 
however, did not immediately enter the work force, but instead went 
on to graduate school to study biology.
Her mothers career ended when she got married at the age of 22. 
In Ireland, when you got married, you left your job if your were a 
woman, Conway said. She, herself, is married and has a child. She
doesnt think that she would have gotten hired if she were in the 
same position 25 years ago when that rule applied in Ireland.
My mother wasnt given the choices and opportunities that I have 
been given, Conway said. But because of the drive of women before 
me those choices were available to me.
Klatzky, the second panelist
speaker, recalls that she grew ---------------------------------------------
up in a poor community in Michi
gan. In college, she was a math 
major at top the of her class.
Upon graduation, her advisor 
told her that she was on the 
wrong career path. Women 
dont go on to be mathemati
cians, he said. Fortunately,
Klatzsky had no desire to pursue 
a career as a mathematician anyway. Instead, she went to 
Stanford to pursue a career in
Pmo hnr n 1nam 1nc2 na ac amo cA 
mo2 Ttnrre cC y2npinalcC5 mo2 npHl0
rc2 actp mo2 amna rmo hnr cC amo 
h2cCy Tn2oo2 name ?fc1oC pcCga yc 
cC ac so 1namo1nalTlnCre g
That was the promise, Laughlin said. And she believed it to a 
certain extent. Later in her educational career, however, she found 
this to be false advice. Working hard wasnt quite enough, she said. 
About 25 years ago, she wanted to pursue a career that wasnt 
possible for her. I was told at point blank that my career choice was
not appropriate for women,
-------------------------------------------- Laughlin said. She was very
surprised by that. Fortunatly, leg
islation has made that illegal, she 
said.
Laughlin noticed that today 
there is a different environment 
in education for women. There is 
an increasing number of women 
in engineering. There is also more 
educational support for women 
and many support programs such 
as WINGS to aid women. More 
individuals are committing their
psychology, one where she could apply her math skills. As a Profes
sional woman, that was the first time that she encountered some
thing that was contingent entirely upon her gender. I was very 
shocked by that, Klatzky said.
Laughlin, the third panelist, said, My parents said to me work 
hard and you can be anything you want to be.
time to helping women as well, Laughlin said. She also noticed that 
there is a greater willingness to discuss gender issues.
Straub, the fourth panelist went to grad school in the South during 
the 70s. Growing up, she did not believe that she would ever have 
a chance to succeed in life and have an successful career. During her
Please see LECTURE, page L3
bn!lCy nC ?1nTaeeeProfessor passes on values to CS students and kids
% BETHANY SUTTON
Tartan Staffwriter
A dark-haired man watches 
hopefully through thick-rimmed 
glasses as the six-year-old 
stands nervously before the 
plate, Iris knobby, braised knees 
spread slightly apart, one el
bow slightly arched, hands 
Pipped tightly around the bat 
as the pitcher winds and twists 
on.the mound to let fly the ball.
Strike! His swing barely 
touches the ball, and the man 
Sives him a gentle, reassuring
pat on the back.
Three years later, the man 
watches proudly from the dugout 
as the same boy, his eyes care
fully following the path of the 
worn, white leather ball, backs 
into the outfield with a raised 
glove into which the ball falls 
softly; his thin, muscular arm 
reaches the third baseman just 
in time as the umpire shouts, 
Out! and the man in the dugout 
beams widely.
As a grade school baseball 
coach, a soccer coach and as Se
nior Lecturer and assistant dean
for Undergraduate Education in 
the School of Computer Science 
at Carnegie Mellon, Mark Stehlik 
receives the same sense of pride 
and satisfaction as he watches 
his students progress from glo
rifying high school students to 
mature professionals as he does 
inseeinghis young childrenmove 
from being barely able to hit the 
ball to making an out, and per
haps winning a game.
Its the perfect job, he claims, 
for his dual titles enable him to 
both teach and advise; he in
structs the 13-127 Introduction
to Programming and Computer 
Science lecture during, the Fall 
semester, and Iris role as assis
tant dean gives him a nice op
portunity to have a more long
term interaction with the stu
dents.
Even as a small child growing 
up in New York City, Stehlik 
knew teaching to be his destiny; 
he recalls giving his young Costa 
Eican neighbor lessons in En
glish in his basement in Queens 
on a tiny blackboard and chalk 
during the second grade.
He attended Pace University
as an undergraduate, graduat
ing with a Bachelor of Science in 
Mathematics and Computer Sci
ence.
He enrolledat Carnegie Mellon 
as a graduate student and 
quickly realized that their 
strongly research-oriented pro
gram was not for him.
When there was an opening in 
the Department foraSpringl981 
sectionofl5-118, Stehlikjumped 
at the chance, and has never 
looked back.
Reflecting on his distaste for 
research, he expressed the need
for the three tenets of teach
ing, research, and mentoring or 
advising" to comprise the full 
role of a university professor, 
maintaining that the presence 
of all three are very rare at an 
excellent level.
While the department is very 
research oriented, he praises its 
system of plating professors in 
the right jobs as among the 
most effective on campus.
We need a lot of people to 
make the world go round. [The 
Com puter Sri ence Department] 
Please see STEHLIK, page L3


---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  14 March 1994
Bird provides streak of luck
Yeah... WHATever
by Keegan Folk
I was downtown waiting for a 
bus last Tuesday and a pigeon 
shit on me. When I looked up 
after the plop, the bird was look
ing down at me. At first I was just 
embarrassed because I had all 
this bird shit on the back of my 
coat, but then I remem
bered that its supposed 
to be good luck when a 
bird shits on you.
Cool, I think, maybe 
something good is about 
to happen. So, Im stand
ing there waiting for the 
bus, thinking about what 
I will wish for from the 
bird shit.
Maybe a good job after
I graduate? Ill need a job 
pretty soon and Id rather 
have a good one than a 
bad one, so if getting shit 
on meant getting a cool 
job, it would be all right 
with me. But then, Id 
rather just have the money and 
no job at all, because thats what 
the American Dream is all about, 
right? I think so anyway, so if I 
won the lottery because of that 
stupid pigeon, Id be pretty happy. 
But, to win the lottery youve got 
to have that ticket, so maybe I 
should buy one to kind of expe
dite the bird-luck. I looked around 
and right down the street was 
this place to buy the lottery tick
ets with all these other people 
looking like maybe they got shit 
on too, lined up in front to buy
those lucky tickets. I headed over 
but then recalled that I already 
spent all my money for the bus 
plus a quarter for the transfer so 
I couldnt help the lucky bird out 
along those lines.
Since it costs me three dollars 
to get to and from a job that 
doesnt pay anything but from 
which I get relevant experience, 
maybe I should wish that the bus 
didnt cost so much or that my 
internship decided to pay me. It 
would be nice if something good 
came out of the pigeon plop like 
PAT lowering the bus fare be
cause then Id be kind of like a 
martyr for getting shit on so the
When it started to rain, then I 
thought maybe my good luck 
wasnt going to happen just right 
then. If I had to wait a little 
while, I thought, that would be 
okay, but I might forget that I 
had some good luck coming. But 
to get out of the rain, Id have to 
stand under that ledge where I 
got shit on in the first place and 
I really doubted that if I got shit 
on twice that Id forget about it. 
However, the bus pulled up, so I 
didnt get the chance to let an
other pigeon do its thing on me.
I decided on the ride to school 
that maybe people just say that 
a bird plopping on you is good 
luckbecauseits re
ally kind of gross. 
Maybe I was just 
going to have a re
ally bad day and 
have the bird shit 
streak on the back 
of my coat. Actu
ally, it wasnt such 
a bad day in the 
end. Nothing re
ally lucky has hap
pened yet, though 
I havent given up 
hope. Unfortu
nately, I have 
lately begun to 
think that perhaps 
Mark Eggert/ Tartan Art Co-Editor the jucky thing is
bus system could get cheaper, that nothing terrible has hapBut I was still standing there 
waiting for the bus and I had 
class at 1:30, so I was getting 
worried that Id be late, (and I 
really hate that) so maybe the 
good thing would just be that my 
bus would be on time, or maybe 
that class would be canceled. 
Thats always kind of lucky when 
class gets canceled. But then its 
not really lucky because you lose 
out on the education that you 
worked hard to get in the first 
place.
pened. I mean, apparently Im 
still going to graduate in May 
and I dont have any debilitating 
illness, so I suppose Im lucky. 
But now when Im standing at 
the bus stop Im careful to not 
stand under the pigeons. I dont 
want anything to interfere with 
my last dose of bird-luck.
Keegan Folk is a senior En
glish major and a Tartan Con
tributing Editor with a high 
cleaning bill.
*
*
Asian Student Association
#-
fficfau/, cMare /<5, /994
9pm/am
al
Q/nwevscfy (beaten tTo'dai/ ,*7/1/1
funded by your students activities fee
-NWriter consumed by nothing
Horror Stories
by Tom Harper
This weekend will be my first chance in about 
three weeks to just sit around and do nothing. 
Complete and hopefully uninterrupted nothing
ness. The only thing that has a chance of inter
rupting it is my 127 homework, but hopefully it 
wont take that long. I have long been looking 
forward to when this moment would arrive  I 
would even plan my nothingness into 
various segments, such ---------------------------------
... Ramo sora tnlp tnCr cA 
CcamlCyCorr nCp rtoo n2o 
cAaoC tnlp ac hnrao9 ;c2 
mchoHo2 amo TtlTm ycor:e
as:
1:30 pm  Get up 
(maybe)
2:30 pm  Go back 
to sleep (will not be nec
essary if 1:30 doesnt 
pan out)
3:30 pm  Try and 
get up (if possible)
But, as everyone out there in CMU-land knows, 
the best laid plans of nothingness and sleep are 
often laid to waste (or however that clich goes).
So, I decided to ponder just exactly what could 
happen when Im busily doing nothing. Say, for 
example, Im playing a computer game.
Excuse me, I have this reserved.
Me: ...Why?
Because I need to do work.
Me: Aaaaaaaaah! NO! Back, back, foul de
mon!!!
Just wait and see. It will happen. Or, say Im 
catching up on some much-needed sleep. (For 
those of you who are quite new to the concept of 
sleep, sleep is wonderful. Its when your body 
almost shuts down and when youre done sleeping 
you wake up, often feeling refreshed. Best when 
done on weekends).
Me: Zzzzzzzzzzzzz....
Fire alarm: YOW! YOW! YOW! YOW! YOW! 
YOW!
Me: Whos the #$*<)!! that pulled the dann 
alarm???!!!
And of course Ill have to wake up, dress, and g6 
outside (not necessarily in that order), and Im sure 
itll be in the next winter storm or severe thunder, 
shower.
Or say Im engaged in another activity I have so 
long missed  eating. That will be the time for the 
great Highlander Food Fight of 94 and Ill be stuck 
in the middle of it.
Me: Hmmm. This turkey is quite tas 
SPLAT!!!
Or, lets say Im calling my date.
Me: How was your day, Beth?
Hello, this is the operator. Weve been listens 
in on your conversation, and quite frankly, yoUr 
lovey-dovey attitude makes us all sick.
Me: What the...?
Beth: Tom, whats going on?
Operator: Simply put, were tired of hearing you 
two lovebirds chattering about every damn thin^
-------------------------------- from how dumb home.
. work is to how much fun 
youre having. Were cut
ting you off now. If you 
dont like it, tough. 
Beth: Is this your fault, 
Tom? I hateyoulW
Me: Beth, wait! Hold 
on! Dont cut us  
Operator: Haha.
Then of course theres the possibility that I could 
actually do my work  and miss the party of the 
millennium.
While Im busily doing nothing, maybe I can take 
some time to ponder about the little things in life, 
Such as why does everyone get e-mail other than 
me, why is the ceiling in MMP cluster so dirty, why 
do I always get the computer with the sticky 
mouse, why are there 10,000 lights on when Im 
trying to sleep, why hasnt grunge made a come
back, why do people bother calling the Psychic 
Friends.
Yknow, the really important things. And why 
cant 127 be a little bit easier sometimes. Espe
cially when I have nothing else to do.
Tom Harper, tired and dazed MCS freshman, is 
also hard at work trying to keep his eyes open until 
his next weekend of nothing can commence. Just 
give him time, patience, and a lot of caffeine:
Lambda Foundation
$3,000 scholarships are 
available to any full-time 
sophomore or junior 
student who has made a 
positive contribution 
toward the integration of 
Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual 
people, their culture or their 
organizations into the 
college or university 
community.
Deadline: April 15, 1994 
Awards: July, 1994
Applications can be obtained through your student affairs office, 
financial aid office or by writing the Lambda Foundation
PO Box 5169 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206
F iTilTTf 412/ 521-5444

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  14 March 1994L3
Professor creates 
bonds with students
STEHLIK, page LI
as made room for both.
Six years ago, he was offered the position of assistant dean, a job 
into which he entered with a lot of trepidation.
While he felt it would give him the opportunity to maintain a 
flore enduring relationship with the students, he did not want to 
give up teaching; it was a reluctant trade, he recalls.
In fact, he did not stop teaching until the Spring 1992 semester; 
L year and a half later, unable to stay away, he was back in the 
lecture hall.
Because the department operates under a central model,with 
students able to come to any number of people and receive the same 
'answer, Stehlik advises, at some time or another, all of the approxi
mately 270 computer science undergrads.
Sometimes the work tends to be overwhelming, especially 
during the two hectic weeks of registration, but his door is always 
open to students who wish to just drop in and ask a few questions. 
The father of two young children, he views his role as assistant 
dean as one of parenting, a belief strongly affirmed by his 
declaration in the commencement booklet thanking his students 
parents for letting him borrow their children for three years.
He proudly acknowledges that he has steady relationships (last
ing for a year or two towards the end of their tenure at Carnegie 
Mellon) with about 75 percent of his departmental undergrads.
As a professor/ faculty member who is deeply involved with the 
student body, playing volleyball every Friday afternoon on the Cut, 
Stehlik receives the greatest sense of enjoyment from being 
surrounded by undergraduates.
Both his educational and persona philosophies can perhaps be 
best summed in his own words: If you like what you do, you tend 
to put more time and effort into it... I like to do what I do.
Lecturers Inspire 
students at CMU
LECTURE, page LI
educational pursuits, Straub re
alized the limitations and ceil
ings placed on her as a woman.
Dean Henry went to under
graduate school in 1964 and had 
similar experiences as Klatzky. 
She went to the University of 
Maryland, rather than a better 
known school as she had intended. 
She even made money going to 
School at Maryland because she 
learned how to write grant appli
cations at a early age. She always 
wanted to be a doctor and do 
medical research even find the 
cure for cancer.
She was told while at the Univ. 
of Maryland that women didnt 
go to graduate school and that it 
was too competitive. Another stu
dent told her that women who
are reasonably attractive dont 
need to go on to grad school ei
ther.
In 1967, she applied to Stanford 
for grad school. At her interview, 
she was told by Doctor Cornberg 
of the molecular biology depart
ment of Stanford that because of 
the Vietnam war the only per
sons applying that year would be 
the lame, the halt and the blind, 
and the women.
Needless to say she didnt go to 
Stanford; instead she went to 
Berkeley, and became a success
ful woman who didnt let anyone 
hold her back from achieving her 
goals.
The panelists were very inspir
ing and their stories touched the 
heart of what it is like to be a 
woman pursuing a career.
College bowl quizzes CMU thinkers
Womens Issues discussed
WOMEN, from page LI
are dealt with honestly, ad
equately, and seriously.
CMU still has a skewed gen
der ratio, and I think that cre
ates a lot of social problems for 
women. The Report of the Com
mission on the Role and Status 
of Women at CMU, which came 
out this year, discusses things
that are effecting the academic 
climate for women. It cites stuff 
like the number of female pro
fessors, the frequency of the use 
of the universal he in class dis
cussion, sexism, etc.
It does show that CMU is 
behind other Universities in 
dealing effectively with these 
issues, said Riley.
By JASON HEINLEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The first Carnegie Mellon college bowl came to campus on 
Saturday March, 12, gathering an intense amount of support from 
the campus community.
The college bowl, a weekly competition popular in the 1960s is 
now played in college, regional, and national competitions, al
though it is no longer televised.
This quiz show with a Jeopardy-like format, requires students 
to answer questions on almost any topic, from current events to 
geography and sci
ence.
The Carnegie Mel
lon competition was 
single elimination 
with two teams play
ing at one time.
Although this years 
competition is too late 
to go on to the regional 
tournament, there are 
plans for an earlier one 
next year.
Sixteen teams 
signed up for the com
petition, with team 
members from all 
years, majors, and col
leges.
College bowl volun
teer and senior archi
tecture major Moneet 
Singh said he was 
surprised that there 
is quite a variety of 
students.
Ben Wang, fresh
man chemical engi
neering major, was the organizer and driving force behind the 
competitions appearance on campus. He asked Bonnie Gorman, 
assistant director of student activities if there was a college bowl 
competition on campus and she said that she would be interested 
in helping organize a tournament.
Gorman said that Ben did all of [the advertising for the College 
Bowl], he took out Tartan ads and put up table tents.
Wang had to then get information from College Bowl Inc. about 
the competitions format, obtain money from the Activities Board 
special events fund, and borrow buzzer systems from the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh and West Virginia University.
Jason Sylak, junior industrial management major and member of 
the Pythons, a college bowl team consisting of Carnegie Mellon 
football players, said that he 
liked the variety of the ques
tions. Furthermore, he said that 
by taking part in the competi
tion, and by making it through 
the first elimination, they are 
breaking the stereotype of foot
ball players. We are coming in 
here and showing people what 
we can do.
The winning team, Tanzen 
Mit Ratten Spittel concurred 
that they all came to the compe
tition for the trophies and the 
free food.
Team captain David Taylor 
credited his mom for the trivia 
success in the competition be
cause she drilled him on trivia 
throughout his youth.
Other members of the team 
were sophomore civil engineer
ing major Dan Giammer, freshman physics major Ben Smith, 
sophomore chemical engineering Major Nathan Peters, and fresh
man physics and philosophy double major Adam Tablemann.
Wang plans to organize the College Bowl organization on cam
pus, and he would like to invite other schools to campus in the future 
to practice for the regional and national tournaments.
Kathy Wright/ Tartan Staffwriter
Student / Faculty 
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
RESCUE FROM SARAJEVO
An Eyewitness Account 
Featuring Documentary Photographer Edward Serotta
Thursday, March 17, 2:30 PM 
Reading Room, Donner Residence Hall
On the same day that a deadly bomb exploded in a crowded marketplace, the American Joint 
Distribution Committee was in the midst of rescuing 300 Croats, Serbs, Jews, and Muslims. 
Edward Serotta, who photographed this incredible overland journey, will show slides that 
capture this heroic rescue.
Sponsored by Hillel, 621-8875, with the support of the United Jewish Federation.
DEADLINE
for 
Adamson Award 
Submissions 
Tuesday, April 5,1994, 
5:00 pm 
at the 
English Dept. BH 259
Booklets describing rales and procedures 
are available now at Baker Hall 259
VANCE SCREENING
The American Expretr 
Card not only opens doors. 
It raises curtains, toa
An ivrrylsy advenlurc.
UXLTJUnr JtuUern'n'JIWlru-xaaiXduar.r.i Si up aunBMBXiMmuiiiwnaBXmana-iMta
American Express applauds its student Cardmembers 
with yet another exciting benefit: a continuing series 
of screenings of major motion pictures brought to you 
by Hie American Film Institute. And made possible by 
the American Express Card in association with 
Entertainment Weekly. p^yj^y [jjgfjjExclusively for student Cardmembers.
The latest film, The Paper, will hit your campus the week 
of March 14th. But only student Cardmembers can get not 
just one, but two complimentary passes for each screening. 
For passes and screening information, look for posters 
around campus. Or ask an American Express represen
tative. You'll find one on your campus the week of the 
14th. If you're not a Cardmember, but would like to 
apply, just call 1 800 223-2640.
Entertainment
The
AmericanRim
Institute

---------------------------------------------------

cOmiCs
Frumpy
**  vr ... . 4',-
Wm%.* I 
:fe . , " t
 #iv>: I
This week, the 
comics have 
adopted a 
mascot.
Frumpy the 
wonder bear 
has this to say 
about the
comics:
THE MISADVENTURES OF
\<\V/vV5(
{ROM MeWzEAND,
SY RAMSEY HONG-WOi VII (9MAWC.H 1994
AR 
WHATS THE BI& 
IDEA? WHYd 
THE CHICK THROW 
MY CREW OVER 
30ARP? X WAS 
JUST KIPPING-/ 
G-EEZ. G-EE2.&gF2.
For those of 
you who dont 
speak bear. 
TRANSLATION:
Bears dont read silly comics. 
THANKS Frumpy!SS
BY THE WAY, 
HOWS OVR SIS 
FRANNY? AND 
WHO'S THE GAL 
4M/WAY? CAN 
r g-ive you A 
L/FT T0 
ANYWHEREf
ASKING FEMINISTA FRANCINE OUT ON 
A DATE BECAME A NEW HAZING 
RITUAL FOR THE BOYS OF ZETA HOUSE
C& G5
7 //////1/I///////7
HOBBES. m \ \TS -mo 
UP' r FORSOT IN THE 
TO DO MV MWH I WORKING. HOMEWORK/
BUT M\SS WORMYCODS 601UG 
TO COLLECT \T TOMORROW / 
IF I DOHT UME \T, SUEOKllL ME! I mk NVGHTMfcRE 
vRrvT vr
W, USTEK TO THINGS AREm, 1U BET TOMORROWS 
A SNOW DM/ I'LL BET THEX 
CLOSE: TUE SCHOOLS/ LETS 
CALL THE SUPERINTENDENT 
WO SEE.1
\F TOMORROWS K SNOW OM. 
V\E CNN Si RVSMT BACKDen
OR MMBE 
WE WILL
cbEvEg

---------------------------------------------------

'pe-n uecxson W
--------( PIEVSH Lerr WE GET A
,. / A GCOO MUMPER. *s
m^ta-5CUU\&-) (ftASE ?IE-*SE. TUEASt
V V TL...He\,wftn...
'iCW TUlNky .i--wA,Dw m k
WHE-ae^o 'loo 
LINE NOM? )f'^tlM, Lvt's go T 
y.\LLE.R 2eCd.omcsL S 
VM MT INt .CrOT SAVAtiQfct CcoviS 
S TO CP.tt.Mt OP y 
\ "THvS WEE*: /
. xppi,g  
/ Got V1. ]
WANINGV 
TH^-M "feud rtt 
v A 4Dvrn91 2
OuiLWO'CikWOOM Cvmw\creA 
Rcc>v\ VKHW
Irow '. J>
AE.E. Mdsi fc.E.TMN\NCr)
WfcM?,------^7_.
(teo VCCxPap^A HCfetAOMAtL 
tyCMSU A C*AV) - 
T\Pt t\*CUEftj 
M40 CAT.
JETS UO*S>\ 
THVS 09 V/
X'VE GrOT /SOCJF INCJ 
'T TO ^0.]
>0*1
DRAW
&x
YES,MA'AM. THEY'RE 
FELLOW STUDENTS 
WHO WILL SPEAK TO 
THE I5SUE CFMY 
CLIENT'S DISTRESS.
COUNSELOR, 
PO YOU HAVE 
ANYMORE 
WITNESSES?
ANDWERENTYOU] PRJVATBLY ALARMED 
THAT WHEN PROFESSOR DEADMAN BROKE RANKS] 
IT MADE THE REST OF 
YOUR FACULTY LOOK I 
SPINELESS?j---------d
SIR, ISNT IT TRUE THAT 
OF 100% OF LAST YEAR'S
COURSE 5ENIOR CLASS GRAPNCJT! UATEP MAGNA CUM
/ LAUDE OR BETTER?
PRESIDENT KING, ISNT 
IT TRUE THAT FOR. YEARS 
YOU'VE TOLERATED 
GRAPE INFLATION IN 
ORDERTO ATTRACT 
ANP KEEP STUDENTS ^ 
ATWALPEN? /A
GRAPE
mawllasCiii
\50P!SUNENFRAN
CHISED!
ANP HOW MANY 
OFTHEMARB
*%%$? AU.0F TWfiW. 
/ ' THEY'VE ALL
THATS\
RIPIO
ULOUSli
YOUR HONOR. 
IF WE COULD 
HAVE A SHORT 
RECESS...
I CAN 
IMAGINE. 
YOUR WITNESS.
IT ms A 
GFBAT CfiQP,PAMMIT/
PLEASE 
THECOURT, 
I HAVE 
I SIX. ^
pa yAb ScS hiafeppai 
heth.tC tytiS t oitSe 
vzJv ms OUT OF TOUCH 
WITH CURRENT REALITY AT 
WALDEN COLLEGE ? UJHY PIP 
/ HE POTT?
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, THE 
PLAINTIFF HAS MADE THE CASE 
THAT 6RADES ARE GIVEN WITH
IN AN OVERALL CONTEXT, THAT 
APPLYING A STANPARD FROM 
ANOTHER TIME IS UNFAIR...
HOLD IT, NO ONE 
TOLPME ABOUT 
SUCH A POUCY! 
YOU CAN NAIL 
HIM IN CROSSEXAMINATION!
PROBABLY TO 
PROVE THE 
COUEGBHAP 
A POLICY OF 
M6HGRADES. 
LUE BET ILK 
SETTLE...
UM...TM 
NOT SO SURE. KING 
SORTOF 
INTIMI
DATES ME.
INTIMIDATES
YOU? YOU TOLD 
ME YOU ATE 
WHITE, MALE, 
ANGLO-SAXON 
AUTHORITY HGURES ALIVE!
mis NOT 
f{f)2 AFTERTHE 
mS,THEY'RE 
W5 PRESIDENT
KING...
JUST THE DEAD ONES. 
I'M ACTUALLY 
PRETTY SHY.
KING? WHAT 
FOR?
WHY PIP 
YOU PO 
IT?
YOU WENT 
TO WALDEN 
LAW SCHOOL, 
DIDNT YOU?
HOW PO YOU COMPENSATE SOME
ONE WHOS HAD A BRILLIANT 
FUTURE DESTROYED? NO AMOUNT 
OF MONEY SEEMS ADEQUATE 
TO COVER THE PAMACE CAUSED 
BY THIS UNJUST GRAPE...
QUITE THE CONTRARY. WALDEN 
COLLEGE HOLDS ITS STUDENTS 
TO TOUGH, DEMANDING STAN
DARDS. GRAPES ARB ALWAYS 
LINKED TO PERFORMANCE!
OH? LET ME READ TO YOU PROM 
YOUR OWN CATALOG"HAVE YOUR 
SIGHTS 5ET ON GRAD SCHOOL?... "
*1UJALDEN 
GUARANTEES
ITS STUDENTS 
STRAIGHT AS*
WE ALSO 
PROMISE 
GOOPFOOP. 
ITS A CAT
ALOG, FOR 
GOD'S SAKE!
PRESIDENT KING, HAVE 
WCREATED THE EXPECTA
CION CAMPUS THAT 
AIL STUDENTS ARE 
ENTITLED TO HIGH I GRADES?
SHOULD A SINGLE PROFESSOR 
HAVE THE POWER TO DENY 
A STUDENT HIS LIFELONG _ 
DREAM OF BECOMING 
A HIGH-POWERED / 
ATTORNEY? IS \ / vV=i 
THAT FAIR? I X / /^
PONT THINK SO. , [ f?
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN 
OF THE JURY: WITH YOUR 
VERDICT, YOU CAN SAY "NO
TO THE TERRIBLE PROBLEM 
OF GRADE ABUSE!OVERRULED. 
HE'S YOUR 
CUBNT.
-T7>Ul,HT) WE A SPtC^L 64ESf ^H'S
feeeu vtuD-/iw& 6T'iploVE-owws.r.ship
dumPbARefeorm 01P1 HA0kRG P2puAy
^r-\^C*>tofjew-'y lAAJiU-EgSiry (M EYTAiD[,T 
W I FAul<>. ------------
F(tri5>o<li C.*,j we ,nctSSFU,L-V 
]zDIFASqfJ Rbl UJiTe TUfE ^ PlP 
CbVIaPaaW M/VTiohAL \jJo(LY-S He/2-E:
 ocT\ 1M ,
^Yoa <uui -fnose 
,0U tipe-7"
uMUtu
LOCAL , 75L*4 
APt-CIO 
errY
iM 7lUG TofJiHf
fwieN 9^ 
Ayt-c
WU'Lb The Pi^FSS^ fLt&Mt H\S 
CotJP o^p-t I'D UKE To
*As&e-, Leo -j, ka-tm.se ctty' 
" ~------^ r(L\e-ZT."
Rh$o( ,S-Y$ga qpEg I u)AS
Jsms-t THfi oTri(L PA-Y thAT 
SriovAlt>(j'r u>(2tkr! a-s>ut th MoMeTA-p-1/
A5fec7 o-p THIS.-------TVie LoltO ^ I Lvii>t,
X>\0 l SM i
1/ FiP-ST Time )Vt 
I SfeiO HIM 
\ L^AcM.Gt-1 u, t
Ac.ruftLb'/J I MEPifJTn d mI'ZtocoKJUT Mf\cpfc>^ 
A^D 5 C-oM/'yofO /
f^oos Fop.

---------------------------------------------------

y #VWP OJHtTE
Whats a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
I ca>n't believe fhctT
Randcx!/ lA/i+Jjovf ^|S evil 
^a dumb k'&ty cat/
X70"
Vlic? vjould txxvetlaov 3^. i 
+Wwe are so dras+icJl/ 
defined tySir^le. 
personality traits ?
Kind of rnoMzS you wonder^ 
what we vjovl be. like, 
wrf taut our most.cha racier isTfc  w of '< o n.
WHAT IT WOULD 
BELIKEr
Hum/*. Ai
A0&? AWT. MYMHSK
M6. . Aim/d sEedwSAumecocKmcH."
EE))
#^ id? 'r.wM
Aft/ mu mm?/item
70 HEAL 
M/LB YOUfflooze.

---------------------------------------------------

fbAicALLV, 4rT imi-m-T-STHE FAR SIDEBy GARY LARSON
m KCADP.S, 
r AIO0/O HAS my 
rofwMia/O ofi 
IlSil/OsEoseoECbu 
lA3E t-rtAlL.
M/ S>afifict3-csiii>-ei<4
H C/lLi062-2&5<f
' fhAHK
yoo.
MI55/W iiiOCf:
DlS'TlWCTll'f : 
FM-fURETi:
HosSiT
m\ mascw q 
HP-Ag.-X 
PAi/o-r VgC66PW x
PfI.D MUt-TlPufAT'OA) 
KWDfl bUSfCD 
LiKei LO/16- Division
03000S5PUZZLES !Hours of fun !
?'?'?'?99999,?99'> *>'*> *>
     
Laddergrams
by Mark Kantrowitz
In a laddergram, the object 
is to transform the word 
on the top rung into the , 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without 
changing the positions of 
the other letters. For 
example, we can change 
LEAD into GOLD in just 
three steps: LEAD, LOAD, 
GOAD, GOLD.
GNAW
CHEW

TartanCross
iLLi
18in
1^1lizT"~
Basic field trips
Jeffe Boats
Its a fax from your dog, Mr. Dansworth. 
It looks like your cat.
26272S
3+
3S
*t
Copyright  1994 
by Mark Kantrowitz. 
All rights reserved.wHEAT
FLOUR
BREAD
TOAST
505152
58!!
toJ
ACROSS
1. Resort area 4. Current events B. Hil12. Data's child onStar Trek13. Hazard14. Tol ___15. Supply veapons16. Cumin gentlcaan17. Horal failing IB. Vanilla, e.g.20. Grand Kiraha1, o.g 22. Has Hot ___25. Conical cap26. Spanish sport30. Woody and Oil Can 34. Poetic v 
0 of c
35. CO of Cl
Copyright 0 1994 
by Mark Kantrowitz. 
AU rights reserved.
Copyright 0 1994 
by Mark Kantrowitz. 
All rights reserved.
q-SDoq. }SDoq q.so\q }S9iq q.D9iq >|D9iq >|D9jq pD9jq
jnou }nou hWuM q.DOiq }D9\q }D9p q.D9ip }D91!N
M3ip MSlj} MOLI} }Dip ^DOD q.DOS }DU MOUB
M0ip M0p MDp pDp pO\5 pDO ^.DOB }DU MDU
M3ip Moip dOip d003 ^003 }D03 }DO }Dll MDu
MSip MOip dOip dDLjD 3-Dip }DOD }DO ^DU MDU
37. Grease dlsolver38. Tiro periods 40. Sneering snaps42. KGB counterpart43. Croquet 45. Louder47. Cccyass direction49. Coeparative suffix50. Defaniraj lies54. The shortest jedi? 58. (todel Anderson62. Croos-ribbed fabric
63. Fe64. Statuette65. Alcoholic beverage66. Hunger sensation67. Potato features68. Top 
DOW)1. Sheet.of rode2. Tiny opening3. ____Kster
4. Large ordinal5. Before6. Desent7. Fictional Jack8. Aaorican Indiansof the southwest9. Author of Ti
21. Decapitated crab?23. Alcoholic b24. Germn :
27. Aviation prefix28. Mesopotamia29. Persia31. Baseballor Barra32. Challenge33. Prccoto 36. Footwear39. Getting a tan 41. Fesale sibling 44. Finish 46. Pigpen 48. Spooky50. Unfasten51. Feminine nasc52. fianeless (abbr.)53. Ribald55. Spoken56. Sandvlch shop57. Minlckud60. Masculine nan61. Harvests
BOB BSE3B 13I10 BHD GIBBO GIBBO BB0 BDiasaQ DHBB BEBB EBEHQBB BBB BEE BBDBDBH S000E3 000 EHE1B BEH3 BBBB some tt
ii,ii oaacHiQB 
ihiwgihh ufhhw,BBQB 0B0B ESQ tanaa hhahn iwn tktt kddtt ppy
ACROSSI. Fanous Soccer star 5. Quip 8. Chooses12. African nodel13. Box r Moharoed14. Persia15. Retained 
17. CrazyIB. Unit of work 19. Healing plants21. Drag22. Ferule undergarnent23. King25. Deliberate firo 28..Unit of sngnotisn31. Heavy ale32. Ponder33. Chess goal34. Rip35. Final Greek letter37. Prea. Roosevelt38. Set40. Snldge41. Friend43. Palo purple 45. Poorly lit 48. Greek poet 50. Hovo52. Cerecony53. Fcsnlo rap group54. Parisienne friend55. Paradise56. Affircntiven57. Stay
1. Heap2. PrinCo3. Slrgor K.D.4. Phonetic oynbol5. Ms. Maples6. Pertaining to oil7. Befalls8. Grease9. Cccplained10. Mexican dish11. Icy precipitation 16. Merit20. Canine ccccand
Snail shop Regained energy ClipaUnit of paper
AskovAfflict____BollvulgarPaper coators
QEEB SEJB I3BB3 bobo sea eishis B3E1BBBBH BQ35SEI I!)BIB BHBDB BH3Bag inufiHHES BESEIH
iiia asacaEia ES 3 BOBBIBHBB3 BBBQEIBBDB DBB SSEQ BBBBB Ei3@ BBQB EBBB0GII1B HQBD BBHE1 BQEIin B5SEB E3HCI BBB0

---------------------------------------------------

Are you a World Class 
Developer?
CONNECT Inc.
CONNECT is a leader in Wide Area and Local Area Business Information 
Systems. We build and operate a range of email-enabled, distributed enterprise 
information applications. We are a venture funded start up and are looking key 
people to join ouir team.
We need world class developers with strong experience in C and UNIX. 
Familiarity with Windows or Macintosh, or coursework or experience with 
relational database is a plus. People who like systems programming and are 
exceptional at it will probably succeed with us.
We offer comprehensive benifits as well as equity participation (stock options). 
EOE. Please sign up for an interview with us in the Career Center, or fax your 
resume to us directly at (408) 973-0497.
Eric Sedlar, Director, Messaging 
System Development 
CONNECT Inc.
10161 Bubb Rd.
Cupertino, CA 95014 
(408) 973-0110 ext 381
SUBWRV?
415 South Craig Street 
Oakland, PA 15213 
(412)687-6728
W SERVINO BREAKFAST
MUFFIN.99
EGG AND CHEESE 
HAM AMD EGG 
BACON AND EGG 
WESTERN EGG 
SAUSAGE AND EGG
COFFEE / TEA 
ORANGE JUICE
1.19
1.39
1.39
1.59
1.59
.69
.99
BUY ONE 
FOOTLONG, 
GET ONE OF 
EQUAL OR 
LESSER VALUE 
FOR 99$
with purchase of medium beverage
I FREE
i BREAKFAST 
ITEM
when you purchase 
another of equal or 
lesser value (excluding beverages)
Limit One Per Customer Per Visit * Limit One Per Customer Per Visit a Limit One Per Customer Per Visit Not Good With Any Other Offer |] Not Good With Any Other Offer B Not Good With Any Other Offerw nmnneet ny ntnnee te tnGet<Jyb
i 6 MEATBALL SUB FOR ONLY
$1.49
PITTSBURGH 
HARRISBURG PHILADELPHIA 
NEW YORK CITY
TORONTO. CANADA
^ROCHESTER. NY
^SYRACUSE. NY
CORTLAND. NY
PITTSBURGHo
CARLISLE
SHIPPENSBURG0^YORK(
CHAMBERSBURG, 
HAGERSTOWN, MDl
HILADELPHIA 
KING OF PRUSSIA
WASHINGTON, DC (5 ^ 1-800-444-2877
TO ALL POINTS SOUTH
Summer Ho in New York
live at New York University in the heart of Greenwich Village while 
you work, do an internship, or just enjoy summer in the city.
 Minutes from New Yorks business and cultural centers
 Apartment-style and traditional residences; single and double occupancy
 Outstanding sports-recreation facility
 Over 1,000 courses offered day and evening 
Housing available May 22-August 13 
For more information, call toll free
1-80D-E82-4HVU ext77G
New York Unhenity is an affirmative action/equal opportunity institution.Summer
New Series
4/ //is
* *
m
li
From the animators 
of The Simpsons.
Featuring the voices of 
Jason Alexander, Tim Curry,
Nancy Travis and Dweezil Zappa.
With music by Frank Zappa.
USA
NETWORK
Saturdays 10S30PN/9:30 Central

---------------------------------------------------

ianist and beat poet appear in concert
jyLOU BORJARSKI
pcial to The Tartan
Skibo Ballroom was unusually 
when Ray Manzarek and 
jjchael McClure took the stage 
8:30 pm Saturday 
light. Lights flashed 
an indication that 
he show would start 
con. We all sat pa
rtly waiting until 
e poet and pianist 
merged from the 
ark end of the balloom. They took the 
lage and prepared
5 share their wild 
jorld with us. The 
fusion of lyrics and 
music which ensued 
introduced the audi
ence to the aesthetic 
realm of a beat poet 
and a concert pianist.' 
sSo, the first poem 
rere doing tonight 
begins with words by 
fhoreau. The first 
work performed 
seemed to set the 
j as to where 
Mike and Ray would take the 
show. That government is best, 
which governs least..., began 
McClure. The words did, at times, 
address the events and people of 
our time.
At the end of the first poem,
McClure talked about the work 
from which the opening of his 
poem was taken. Thoreau also 
said That government is best 
which governs not at all*.
The duo moved on to a piece
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Ray Manzerek on piano and Michael McClure at the 
microphone, creating an evening of fine poetry.
After performing several more 
poems, the two paused and began 
discussing where to take the show 
next. They talked about their mu
tual friend, Jim Morrison. 
McClure had met Manzarek in 
1968 while The Doors 
were working on their 
third album, Waiting 
For The Sun. The next 
poem was, In Memoriam Jim Morrison. 
This tribute to Mr. 
Mo Jo Rising took the 
audience on a mystic 
trip of just who 
Morrison was to the 
two of them.
Next, McClure 
reminded us that it 
wouldve been Jack 
Kerouacs 71st birth
day, and that they had 
a poem in memory of 
him. Jack Kerouac, 
McClure explained, 
was one of the poets in 
the audience at his 
first poetry reading. 
Inl955, McClure 
said, and Kerouac, 
McClure, Allen Ginsburg, and an entire collection of 
now famous Beat Poets were in 
power. Manzarek added, These
they called The Last Waltz, in
spired by the movie by the same 
name which was directed by Mar
tin Scorsese. The movie was about guys set the stage in the late 50s 
Bob Dylan and The Band, for spiritual growth and love and 
McClure read one scene aloud to in the 60s, we used psychedelics 
set it up. to try and expand our minds in
that same sense. And now were titude of cynicism and want for 
in the 90s and look. Whoops! change. He began one poem with, 
Didnt see this coming. We come from nowhere, and its
Manzarek then suggested that nowhere we go, but in another 
they try a work in progress enpiece, he would speak against 
titled The Owl 
Hoots. The work 
seemed quite pol
ished and flowed 
just as smoothly as 
the rest of the po
ems that evening.
The entire show 
generally im
proved from one 
section to the next.
The audience got a 
glimpse of their 
spontaneous and 
casual perfor
mance style when 
the two openly 
asked what the 
other thought they 
should perform 
next.
The conversation on stage 
shifted to sarcasm. We thought 
we were done with all this shit 
from the 80s, but these fucking 
people wont go away, was the 
preamble to the next piece aptly 
called a Rogue Gallery of the 
80s. At the conclusion of this 
piece, Manzarek added over ap
plause, There is a God in Heaven 
and she is smiling.
One of the many feelings I got 
from the show was McClures atAndrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer 
Michael McClure during The Owl Hoots, one of his most 
powerful poems.
practices of our time, such as 
...and the rain forests are com
ing down.... Manzareks some
times perfect match and comical 
contrast for the words allowed 
the two to successfully Resur
rect the Lion.
As the two prepared for the 
final piece of the evening, they 
prefaced it with, This is a long
piece, because you are so in tune 
with the music, dont worry be
cause well still be going when 
you get back.
The final poem was all that 
McClure had indi
cated it might be. It 
was a pure rendition 
of one mans words de
scribing life as he saw 
it, combined with, not 
simply background 
music, but Man
zareks musical inter
pretation of the same 
subject. The piece was 
quite long, but flowed 
so fluently that it was 
over before you real
ized it. *
After the show, 
the two stayed to sign 
autographs and speak 
with fans. Some 
people were disap
pointed because it was nothing 
like The Doors, or they com
plained, I didnt get it, but that 
was hardly the point. That isnt 
what Manzerek and McClure in
tended.
If you went to the Ballroom 
with an open mind and wanted to 
hear a renowned pianist and fa
mous beat poet in concert, sharpiece. It is about the beginning of ing their views and wisdom, you 
life as it becomes spirit and moves really experienced something 
through to our deep behavior. If new. After all, new isdefinitely 
your mind leaves you during this better than old.
PR head resigns from CFA
oainiatetinatarm
entertasimentcomme
ntertainmentcomm
By TINA L. URSO
Tartan Contributing Editor
Those of us who deal with or who are 
in the College of Fine Arts were dealt 
a bit of bad ne%vs recently with the 
resignation of CFA PE Director, Saul 
Markowitz. While we know he is leav
ing us for bigger and better things at 
the Pittsburgh Zoo, and his replace
ment will likely fill his job adequately, 
this news is still upsetting.
Anyone who has dealt with him, 
eitherbyneedinghim to publicize your 
events, having him badger you about 
CFA events for publication, or even 
through reading thecfa.today bboard, 
knows exactly why. His laid-back atti
tude and witty commentary on the 
bboards were evidence of his wonder
ful PR abilities.
While it is in the nature of public 
relations people to be friendly on the 
surface, Saul seemed to have always 
been more than that. The relations he 
was able to build with his associates 
were usually more than simply courte
ous professional acquaintances, vergingmore on the side of friendships. His 
warm and friendly maimer he brought 
with all his professional dealings al
ways left anyone who met him with
the feeling that his good will was 
sincere, something that is sometimes 
hard to find in the world of promotion 
and self interest that often surrounds 
public relations.
Specifically, in the case of the Di
versions editors and staff here on The 
Tartan, who deal with CFA-related 
events on a weekly basis, we have 
learned to appreciate the friendliness 
and professionalism of someone like 
Saul.
He has built a solid professional 
friendship with us, whichhasnot only 
been positive for CFA publicity in 
general, but the quality of this news
paper as well.
I only hope that University Rela
tions will be able to find someone able 
and caring enough to upkeep the in
tegrity and professionalism of the re
lations that Saul has set up in the 
CMU and Pittsburgh community, be
cause that decision may have a dras
tic effect on these relationships if not 
considered carefully enough.
Leaving the past behind, we wish 
Saul well as he goes on to more re
sponsibilities at the Pittsburgh Zoo, 
and hope he will be as happy and have 
as much enthusiasm for his job there 
as he has clearly shown he had here. 
We also hope he wont forget us in his 
new environment. And remember 
Saul, Its a jungle out there! Well all 
miss you!
Greedy delivers hysterical comedy
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
Money. Deceit. Double-crossing. 
Greed. Its all part of a rambunctious 
film called Greedy, which is definitely 
worth seeing. Filled with humor, outra
geous situations, and moments of senti
mentality, Greedy delivers everything 
you would want in a comedy, and more.
Kirk Douglas (Spartacus) stars as 
Uncle Joe McTeague, a man who made 
millions in a scrap metal business. His 
conniving nieces and nephews are just 
waiting around for him to die, and each 
one of them will do anything to insure 
that they receive Joes fortune. Greed 
overcomes everyone and its a wild ride 
of back-stabbing, double-crossing humor 
in a race to see who will get Joes mil
lions.
This was one of the funniest films I 
have seen in a while. While the theatri
cal previews make this film out to be 
bordering on stupid, I was genuinely 
impressed with it. Greedy made me laugh 
so much, that my sides actually hurt! I 
was fortunate that Director Jonathan 
Lynn {My Cousin Vinny) put in some 
sentimental moments for me to recover. 
This film has a serious message behind
it: dont let money come before the ones 
you love. And boy does that message 
come across! After seeing how dysfunc
tional the McTeague family became be
cause of their greed, I am glad 
that Im not in a situation like 
that.
This is not a film to see for 
serious acting quality. Sure, it 
has Kirk Douglas, but so what?
This isnt a drama, its a spir
ited comedy which is per
formed by comedic actors. So, 
when you see Phil Hartman,
Ed Begley, Jr., Nancy Travis, 
and Michael J. Fox, what do 
you expect? A serious drama 
filled with manipulation and 
deceit? Greedy reminds me of 
one of OHenrys short stories 
 nothing is what it seems, 
and if you think it is one thing, 
it will most likely be the other.
This film is Parenthood on 
drugs  a dysfunctional fam
ily with a twist. So go to see 
Greedy if you want to laugh 
and be entertained, but be 
ready for a serious message 
woven into the tapestry of the 
film.Greedy Is now playing at Manor Theater.
Ramsey Hong/Tartan Art Co-Editor
A particularly gripping scene in the new comedy, Greedy, starring Kirk Douglas, Michael J. Fox, and Olivia d Abo. Among the 
jealous family pictured are Phil Hartman and Ed Begley, Jr..

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  14 March 1994
You always seem to hear about the most under
rated sports stars, but I dont think Ive ever heard 
of the most underrated comic book. I guess thats 
because, well, its underrated. Anyway, in my opin
ion the most underrated comic out today has to be 
Images StormWatch.
A sure sign of this is that you can pick up the 
entire run (issues #0 through #8r plus one special) 
for cover price, or maybe a buck more. Price may 
not have anything to do with the quality, since 
StormWatch is the most consistently good comic 
on the market today.
I think the the back issues are so cheap because 
it was probably over ordered when it first hit the 
stands just in case it was deemed a hot comic. Ive 
been reading StormWatch since the week the first 
issue was sold. Ill admit that the first three issues 
started off slow. I wasnt sure whether to continue 
reading it or not, since I wasnt too impressed with
these issueg, but I had confidence the Lee could do 
a lot with this idea of a United Nations task force 
so I gave it one more chance. Since then, Ive been 
hooked. Now StormWatch is one of the books that 
I immediately buy  no matter how little money I 
have.
Of course, this wouldnt be my typical column 
without some gripes. My main complaint is that 
Lee and co-plotter Brandon Choi have taken a long 
time to really give any type of origin for the char
acters and the StormWatch program as a whole. 
However, in recent issues, they have done a phe
nomenal job of establishing char
acter origins with flash backs.
Another complaint is that fol
lowing issue #9, theyre releasing 
#25. How Stupid!!! I cant believe 
that this is actually happening!
Not only is this happening to 
StormWatch, but Image is doing 
the same thing to Brigade, Su
preme, and Bloodstrike under 
the heading of Images of Tomor
row.
That doesnt bother me as 
much because I wouldnt even 
touch those comics if I was in a 
waiting room at the doctors of
fice and the only other thing to 
read was Glamour and Teen . In 
this case, however, Image is mess
ing with one of my favorite books.
I dont see a reason to put out a 
book a year in advance when it 
will be completely unrelated to 
the plot in the current book. I 
know most writers have plans for 
their books many issues in ad
vance, but why cant Lee and Choi 
keep it to themselves?
Actually, neither Lee nor Choi 
wrote issue #25. Instead, Steven 
Seagle (note: Seagle not Seagal of 
On Deadly Ground ) from Sand
man Mystery Theatre and 
Grendel Tales was in charge of 
the task for some bizarre reason.
I know Im griping a lot about 
this, but of course Im going to 
buy it anyway. However, I am 
going to wait a year and a half to 
read it, so I can read it in order.
One last complaint. In issue #8,
StormWatch is saving this Rain
maker girl whos a seedling. Since 
shes a seedling that means shes 
only learning of her superpowers 
now and certainly isnt a super 
hero yet. But she still has on the 
patented Jim Lee ultra-tight, ex
posing at least half the breasts, 
female hero outfit. I suppose
Comic Book Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
thats what all Native Americans hang around in 
(or in this case, out of) on the reservation. I dont 
think so.
Now that Ive moaned for a while its time for the 
compliments. First of all, the art is excellent. 
Although many people might say that Scott Clark 
and Trevor Scott, combine their pencils and inks 
for a perfect Jim Lee imitation, I cant say that I 
mind.
One, if they did set out to copy Lee they sure did 
an excellent job. Secondly, at least 
they picked the right Lee brother to 
model themselves after. Having to 
put up with Jae Lees art on the 
WildCA.T.S. Trilogy actually gave 
me a headache. Outside of the art, 
the book is also peerless.
I think StormWatch is even writ
ten better than Lees better known 
book, WildCA.T.S. (which is not 
weak either). For a team that only 
been around about a year I would 
say StormWatch has established it
self as an integral part of the Image 
Universe, especially Jim Lees own 
little corner of Wildstorm Produc
tion books.
After all StormWatch has encoun
tered the WildC.AT.S., Union, Gen 
13 (can you say New Mutants ripoff?), and even Ripclaw from Cyber 
Force.
Next week the first issue of Kin
dred , featuring the team up of 
StormWatchs Backlash and 
WildCA.T.S. own Grifter, should be 
hitting the stands.
Another good point about the 
StormWatch team is that there quite 
multicultural. You have the leader, 
Battalion, an African American; the 
Japanese Fuji (what other national
ity could he be with that name?); 
Diva, an Italian; and Winter, a Rus
sian. Also theres Weatherman One 
who looks a lot like Lobot (you know, 
the bald guy with the metal thingy 
around his globe) from The Empire 
Strikes Back. And, of course there is nearly equal 
number of females so that should make the femi
nists happy.
Hey, go out and buy StormWatch. Its only $1.95 
and the only gimmick was a poly-bagged #0 issue 
with a trading card. Its cheap now, but you never 
know when speculators are going to catch on to 
this great but underrated book and make back 
issues prices soar. Go out and buy a copy today! 
Start reading StormWatch. Then it wont be un
derrated anymore. Youll be apart of comic history 
in the making!
BOBBY 
McFERRIN
at the Pittsburgh Symphony Pops
MARCH 18*21  HEINZ HALL
Bobby McFerrin does it all! You know him from his hit 
single "Don't Worry, Be Happy." Now get to know him 
even better as he conducts the orchestra, swings with 
the Symphony's Jazz Quartet and performs his 
trademark vocal Improvisations. Don't miss this 
muiti-Grammy award-winner's long-awaited 
Pittsburgh Symphony Pops debut.
STUDENT RUSH TICKETS ONLY $10!
Available at the Heinz Hall Box Office the hour 
before each concert. Student I.D. required.
CALL(412) 392-4900 for more information.
TteSiTSBiiRGH M5EPbpC5IiSik xpuY occnlYg  Mrsic WYulUfpu
isj iyyj Aegis tntertainment, inc. 
Battalion leads his Stormwatch team into battle once again.
DietAid 3000
AS SEEN ON T.V. *SPRAY AWAY THE POUNDS
DietAid 3000 is the only breath spray which acts as an appetite 
suppressant, relieving hunger pangs and the mental desire to eat. 
This spray has a pleasant peppermint flavor.
 100% NATURAL.
 Use With Current Diet  No Calories Per Serving
 Vitamin C  Easy To Use
 Convenient  Discreet
**ORDER TODAY**
Money Back Guarantee! Please allow 2-4 weeks for delivery 
ONLY $19.95 FOR A 3 MONTH SUPPLY 
includes shipping & handling). Send cash, check or money order to: 
HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS 
3330 HILCROFT, STE. D-411 
HOUSTON, TX 77057
*
LARGE PIZZA WITH ONE TOPPING
StormWatch worthwhile readMasters student directs
By JOHN BIGGS
Diversions Co-Editor
Everyone has their price, as far as greed and 
avarice are concerned. This is how Dan Green, 
director and graduate student, describes the main
These are very greedy, very common people, 
Broule and the rest of the actors are forced to 
change their styles and speech as the pl3y 
progresses, changing dialects and attitudes to suit 
those they are trying to steal from.
This, Green says, was one of the major prob. 
lems. The language  pure language. What 
Johnson does so effectively is he takes the 
jargon of the people and has the three main 
con people talk back to them in that language 
... but it is one of the best comedies ever 
written. It is so tight, I mean the plot and the 
language is so air tight.
Green states that The Alchemist was one of 
the best shows he had had the pleasure of 
directing. I directed nine shows, including 
No Exit, by Jean Paul-Satre, and then I also 
did Euripedes Alcestices, a Greek tragedy, 
and I adapted it with a musical director and 
turned it into a Blues musical. Ive also done 
some Ibsen and Shaw, so Ive done a lot of 
classic material. Ben Johnson needs to 
done more often, hes a terrific author. 
Discussing his past, Green says, I did my 
undergraduate at Southern Illinois Univer
sity of Carbon-dale in Theatre, Directing/ 
Acting; did a minor in Film. I directed 
professionally in Chicago for a few years, 
Then, I came here and am wrapping up my 
third year. This is my thesis. He mentions 
that one of the best things about working on 
the show was an absolutely crack stage man
agement team and a great cast. The Alche
mist, Green says, is a great show.
The Alchemist will be performed in 
Theatre on March 16 -19 at 8 pm and March 
theme of Ben Johnsons The Alchemist. First per19 at 2 pm. Tickets are now available at the CFA 
formed in 1610, this classic play examines the box office, 
ploys of three cons; Captain Face 
(Christian Borle), Subtle 
(Patrick Wilson), and Dol Com
mon (Alison Mould). These three 
wily characters dupe a series of 
upper-class men and women out 
of their money , by playing on 
their deepest wishes and desires.
And at the end, none really gets 
what they want, including the 
three main characters, says 
Green.
The play is interesting in that 
it is set in the Black Friars of 
London  where the play first 
performed. The Alchemist deals 
with the aftermath of the plague.
Since the play premiered imme
diately after the plague, the 
majority ofits audience consisted 
of people who actually survived 
the plague themselves, so 
Johnson thought that it would 
be best, in order to attain com
edy, to show comedic people.
photo coutesy of Dan Green 
Dan Green, director of The Alchemist
682-3738
$H.50 for a Wash and 
cut with this coupon
] i 9 Meyran Ave (Oakland) 
Between Forbes & Fifth 
Mon-Sat 8:15-4:30
the edge in men's hairstyling'
Cnricos
IMMIGRATION LAWYER
Green Cards 0 Work Visas 0 
Labor Certifications 0 Extensions of Stay 0 
Change of Status 0 All Immigration Problems
Students, Faculty, Staff, Profesioiials, 
Researchers, Health Care and Other Workers
FREE CONFIDENTIAL CONSULTATION 
Convenient Shadyside Office 
Evening/Weekend Appointments Available
LAW OFFICES OF GARY STEINER 
(412)683-7280
THE
THREE-MONTH BIRTH CONTROL 
SHOT, IS NOW AVAILABLE AT 
PLANNED PARENTHOOD.
Call now for a confidential appointment 
to discuss your birth control options.
PLANNED
PARENTHOOD
OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA
Downtown
Pittsburgh
434-8971
Sewickley
741-7626
Clairton
233-6001
682-7272
CALL US FOR LARGE ORDERS FOR YOUR GROUP OR ORGANIZATION. WE CAN HANDLE 
ANY SIZE ORDER AND DELIVER IT TO YOUR MEETING PLACE. ORDER FOUR OR MORE 
LARGE ONE TOPPING PIZZAS AND GET THEM FOR ONLY $5.00 EACH PLUS TAX.

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, March 17
Citizen Kane
Considered to be one of the greatest films of all 
time, Citizen Kane is a landmark of technical 
virtuosity. Based on the life of newspaper tycoon 
William Randolph Hearst, this is the story of 
Charles Foster Kane, publishing giant. Deemed 
controversial before 1941, the film was not re
leased until after Hearsts death.
Citizen Kane, told with dynamic editing, imagi
native camera angles, and an ever shifting per
spective, introduced many original and revolu
tionary techniques that have since been adopted 
as film standards.
Directed by Orson Wells, the film stars Wells, 
Doreathy Comingore, and Joseph Cotten. A mas
terpiece of cinema, Citizen Kane sledded through 
the stilted styles of 40s movie-making and cre
ated a timeless classic.
At 5:45, 8,10:15 pm, and 12:30 am.
Friday, March 18
A Bronx Tale
Robert DeNiro stars in and directs this urban 
drama about a boy and the mob. Dealing with a 
fathers desire to steer his son away from the New 
York Mafia, DeNiros gentle and colorful perfor
mance expertly complements that of his co-star, 
Lillo Brancato, who plays his son, Calogero Anello.
The struggle for the boys innocence is the key 
focus of this warm and fast-paced drama.
Based on a true incident in writer Chazz 
Palminteris life, A Bronx Tale takes a wonderful 
and fascinating look at the problems of impres
sionable youths and those who fight for their 
innocence.
At 5:45, 8,10:15 pm, and 12:30 am.
Saturday, March 19
The Three Musketeers
Charlie Sheen, Kiefer Sutherland, and Chris 
ODonnell star in this swashbuckling story based 
on Alexander Dumas funky adventure. Also fea
turing Tim Curry, this Walt Disney vehicle fea
tures comedy and drama in an eclectic pastiche of 
classic literature and good old fashioned fun. It 
also features the wonderful song All For Love, 
that really seems to make the movie.
Though quite possibly an intrinsically, as the 
French say, cheesy movie, the rollicking portray
als by Sheen and the rest of the. cast merit a 
viewing. After all, its a classic story. You might get 
some culture out of it.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, March 20
They Saved Hitlers Brain
What do you get when you combine some film 
shot in the Phillippines, some shot in the U.S. at a 
different time, a car crash lifted from Thunder 
Road, and a completely incoherent storyline about 
some Nazis on a Caribbean island looking for a 
body for the Fuhrers living head? Just one of the 
most amazing films of all time and one of the most 
entertaining Sunday nights of your life, thats all.
Filmed in 1963, this classic is on par with 
Citizen Kane (see above). A nice way to spend a 
Sunday evening away from the Prozac.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  14 March 1994
Tuesday, March 15 Friday, March 18
Art Instiute Show - 4 Bands Kips Bay Ceili Band with Pat Kilbride
Metropol Rosebud
Rock Express Donnie Iris & the Cruisers
Grafitti GrafittiSODOM & BEGORRAH!
Your Mother Rock 
The Decade
Special Fiesta with Guaracha 
Rosebud
Rema Webb & Dave Budway 
The Balcony
Wednesday, March 16
Roger Humphries, Jimmy Ponder, Keith
Stebler
The Balcony
The Beaten Prophets 
Luciano's Coffeehouse
Thursday, March 17
Ploughman's Lunch 
Grafitti
Saturday, March 12
Out of the blue with Broiutte Mary
Grafitti
Holly Cole Trio
Rosebud
Club Locations:
The Balcony 5520 Walnut St., 687-0110 
The Decade 223 Atwood St., 682-1211 
Graffiti 4615 Baum Blvd., 682-8296 
Metropol 1600 Smallman Ave., 261-4512 
Rosebud 1650 Smallman St., 261-2221 
Electric Banana 3887 Bigelow Blvd., 682-4210 
Lucianos Coffeehouse 1023 Forbes Ave., 
281-6877
Bloomfield Bridge Tavern 4422 Liberty Ave., 
682-8611
By KAREN GRUNBERG
photo courtesy of Poulaphuca Music 
Sodom & Begorrah, Ploughmans Lunchs latest CD. 
This Irish rock band will be playing at Grafitti on 
Thursday, March 17.
NYClEc ScopE
Angie
Geena Davis stars as Angie, a 
brightyoung woman from Brooklyn 
who embarks on journey of selfdiscovery after she decides to break 
ties with her long-time boyfriend, 
have his baby anyway, and face her 
familys darkest secrets. (Manor 
Theater; 5:20, 7:40, 9:45 pm daily)
Begotten
Film producers Theaterofmaterial call Begotten the story of a 
mother and her son and their odys
sey in a brutal land, encountering 
tribes, desperately scrounging for 
survival. (Carnegie Museum of Art 
Theatre; 8 pm Saturday)
Blue
A tale of a widows path of self 
discovery after both her Husband 
and young daughter were killed in 
an automobile accident. Nominated 
for nine Cesars, or French Oscars. 
(Beehive; 5:30, 7:30 pm Monday 
through Thursday)
Found Footage
A film composed of a collection 
of random, avant-garde pre-shot 
footage that was reedited and 
placed in an entirely different con
text. (Beehive; 5:30 pm Thursday)
Greedy
Kurt Douglas and Michael J. Fox 
star in this comedy of an aging 
patriarch and his greedy heirs who 
are jealous of his young girlfriend. 
(Manor Theater; 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
pm daily)
Guarding Tess
Shirley McClaine and Nicholas 
Cage star in this comedy as an exfirst lady and her bodyguard. 
(Manor; 5:40, 7:45, 9:50 daily)
In the Name of the Father
Daniel Day-Lewis and Emma 
Thompson star in this film about a 
British man who is sentenced to life 
imprisonment for confessing to a 
crime he did not commit, to save 
his fathers life. (SquirrelHill Cinema 
World; 7:30, 9:55 pm dally, 4:30 
pm Friday through Sunday, 1:30
pm Saturday and Sunday)
Naked
Winner of two 1993 Cannes Film 
Festival awards for Best Director 
and Best Actor, this film 
focuses on the experiences 
of a philosophizing drifter 
in London. (Filmmakers at 
the Fulton; 8 pm Friday 
through Sunday)
house; 7 pm Monday through Sun
day)
The Snapper
An Irish comedy by Stephen
Reality Bites
Winona Ryder and 
Ethan Hawke star in this 
romantic comedy about a 
college couple and their 
friends in the 90s. (Bee
hive; 9:45, 11:30pm, mid
night Monday, Tuesday, 
Thursday, 11:30 pm 
Wednesday)
Schindlers List
Steven Spielberg di
rects this historic, epic film 
about the life of German 
businessman Oskar Schind
ler and how he saved the 
lives of thousands of Jew
ish people from the World 
War II Holocaust. (Manor 
Theater; 4:15, 8 pm daily)
Short Cuts
Loosely based on Raymond 
Carvers short stories, Short Cuts is 
an epic about nine characters trying 
to make sense of their lives in' 
America in the 90s. Starring Andie 
MacDowell, Matthew Modine, Lily 
Tomlin, and Jack Lemmon. (PlayLow Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
FORUMTRAVEL
Experienced, friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
>r22 !'ySS
photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures 
What's Eating Gilbert Grape is now playing at Squirrel 
Hill Cinema World.
Frears about a family living in 
present-day Dublin who must deal 
with their eldest daughters preg
nancy and her refusal to identify the 
babys father. (Filmmakers at the 
Fulton; 8pm Monday through Th ursday)
Sugar Hill
Wesley Snipes stars in this gritty
drama about a young drug dealer 
and his desired escape from the 
seedy world his brother and father 
have created for him. (Squirrel Hill 
Cinema World; 7:15,9:35pm daily, 
4:15 pm Friday through Sunday, 1, 
3:15 pm Saturday and 
Sunday)
What's Eating Gilbert 
Grape?
Based on Peter 
Hedges novel by the 
same name, this drama/ 
comedy blend focuses 
on the! less than ordi
nary life of Gilbert Grape 
and his family on their 
homestead in Endora, 
Iowa. (Squirell Hill Cin
ema World; 10 pm 
dally, 7:45pm Wednes
day through Monday 
5:30 pm Friday through 
Sunday, 1,3:15 pm Sat
urday and Sunday)
Theater locations: 
Beehive: 3807 Forbes 
Ave.
687-WHAT 
Filmmakers at the 
Fulton:
101 Sixth St.,
471-9700
The Manor Theater: 1729 
Murray Ave. 422-7729 
Pittsburgh Playhouse:
222 Craft Ave. 621-6601 
Squirrel Hill Cinema World:
5824 Forward Ave. 421-7900 
Carnegie Museum of Art 
Theater: 4400 Forbes Ave. 
622-3212
By TARA ZANE
Sleep study needs participants
T
he University of Pittsburgh Medical Center seeks volun
teers to participate in a research study of normal sleep 
patterns in healthy adults. To be eligible, you must be a man age 
30 to 59 or a woman age 40 to 59 and have no serious medical 
or psychological problems. Family members must agree to be 
interviewed. Participants in the study must agree to spend nine 
nights in the sleep lab over a one-year period and will be paid 
S525 upon completion of the study.
For details, call the Pittsburgh Study of Normal Sleep at 624-2303.
University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center
U:':<$r< irl<b$lmt
VIEWS FROM THE BLUFF
DUQUESNE'S 1994 SUMMER SCHEDULE OFFERS: 
TRANSFERABLE COURSES*
*START DATES MAY THRU JULY*
* ACCELERATED SESSIONS*
Ask about our Science and Language Courses
Registration is EASY - 
by FAX, phone, mail, or in person
INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853
FOR YOUR COMPLETE SUMMER 1994 
INFORMATION/APPLICATION PACKAGE

---------------------------------------------------

picture courtsey of Jessie Ramsey
Reality Optional, Flying Pig Theaters comedy improvisation company will perform at the Artery on Saturday at 8 pm. 
Tickets are $5 at the door.
ART
The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust presents Hard 
Choices III, an exhibition of works by Pennsylva
nia Council of the Arts through April 9. Among 
others, the works of CMU professor Charlee Brodsky, 
will be shown. For more information and gallery 
hours, call Rob at 471-6070.
Jessica Miller, Paul Madonna, and Conall 
Callen have works on display at the Forbes Gallery 
through March 13. Call 268-2081 for gallery hours or 
information.
Michael Hacheys display Roadwork II, an in
stallation of monumentally scaled chalk drawings, 
will be on display at the Hewlett Gallery until March 
26. Call Petra Fallaux at x8-3877 for more informa
tion and gallery hours.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers will present Blue, a
film about the liberty of life itself at the Oakland 
Beehive through Thursday. Call John Fedele for 
more information at 681-5449.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers is accepting applica
tions from film and video artists for the 1994 
Mid-Atlantic Reigion Media Arts Fellowships, a grant 
program funded by the National Endowment for the 
Arts, the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts, the 
Deleware Division of the Arts, and the West Virginia 
Arts Commission. To receive guidelines and an ap
plication, call 681-5449. Applications are due March 
22.
__________FILMS
Citizen Kane will be playing at DH 2210 this 
Thursday at 5:45, 8,10:15 pm and 12:30 am.
A Bronx Tale will play in DH 2210 Friday. 
Showtimes are 5:45, 8,10:15 pm and 12:30 am.
Three Musketeers will be shown in DH 2210 on 
Saturday at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
They Saved Hitlers Brain plays in DH 2210 this 
Sunday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
The Carnegie Museum of Art and Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers will co-sponsor a visit by Elias Merhige 
and his latest film, Begotten, at the Museum of Art 
Theater at the Museum. Admission is $5, call 681- 
5449 or 622-3212 for more information.
Students of Objectivism is sponsoring Ayn 
Rands We the Living, a 1942 black and white flick 
in Italian with English subtitles, which will be 
shown on Tuesday at 7 pm in Doherty 2210. Admis
sion is $2 for students, $3 for non-students.
___ MEETINGS
Come repair, revise, and revitalize your for
eign language skills at the international lan
guage tables held daily over lunch. Sponsored by 
the Modem Languages Department, all language 
tables are held in the Graduate Student Coffee
house, with the exception of the Russian Language 
table, held in the Faculty Dining Room. Times are as 
follows: Tuesdays: Russkii Chas and La Table 
Franaise at 12:30 pm; Wednesdays: La Mesa 
Espaola at 11:30 am; Thursdays: Deutscher 
Stammtisch atll:30am;andFridays:fe/iooLwnc/i
o nihongo de at 12:30 pm.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research Group holds 
workshop meetings every Monday at 7 pm at the 
Friends Meeting House. For more information, call 
Bill King at 276-1768.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club holds its 
meetings Tuesdays at 6 pm in the Tartan loft. For 
more information, email db74 or jt3y.
Traditional Irish Set dancing classes take place 
every Sunday night from 7-9 pm in the Bellefield 
Building at University of Pittsburgh. Call 363-8686 
for more information.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Wednesdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A and Sun
i
days at 2 pm in Activity Room B. For more informa
tion email cd2b or call x8-2151.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-denominational student study group, provides a weekly 
forum for students inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Regular meetings are held Tuesdays 
at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning, room 236. For 
more information, call 343-1907.
The Womens Center Collective holds meetings 
every Sunday at 3 pm in the CMU Womens Center. 
If your group is interested in meeting in the center, 
call x8-3595.
Fear public speaking? Join the Whiskey Rebel
lion Toastmasters Club every first and third Wednes
day at the Carnegie Library in Oakland from 7-8:30 
pm. For more information, call 422-5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is held on Wednes
days at 7:30 pm in the Israel room (337) at the 
Cathedral of Learning and on Thursdays in Skibo 
201 at 8 pm, free of charge. Call Rabbi Samuel 
Weinstein at 683-7770 for more information.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop, sponsored by 
the University of Pittsburgh, meets every Wednes
day at 7 pm in the first floor conference room of the 
Oakland Carnegie Library. The group is an open 
forum for writers and writers-to-be and includes Pitt 
and CMU students and alumni. For more informa
tion, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett 
Room. For more information, call x8-2114.
The Pterodactyl Speedway holds student read
ing series in Scotland Yard every other Thursday 
evening at 7 pm. Come out and support the local 
student writing community. Students interested in 
reading should contact Micki Kochanskyj (mk57) or 
Tina Urso (tu05). The next reading will be April 7.
A Rational Recovery support group for those with 
alcohol or drug problems meets every Friday at 7:30 
pm. Meetings are free and held in Room 205 of the 
Wightman Community Center Building in Squirrel 
Hill. For information on this and other RR meetings 
in the Pittsburgh area, phone 261-5363.
The Student Environmental Action Coalition
meets every Sunday at 4:30 at the Pennsylvania 
Environmental Resource Center at the comer of 
Forbes and Craig, third floor. SEAC is composed of 
activists and organizers who fight for greater aware
ness of the current state of the environment and for 
preservation of this delicately balanced ecosystem. 
Call 681-8300 for more information.
If you need to walk across campus late at night,
let a trained student escort team accompany you. 
Call SafeWalk between 10 pm and 2 am seven nights 
a week at 268-SAFE (x8-7233). For more informa
tion, contact Ray Tseng at 682-3068.
Welsh language classes sponsored by the Celtic 
Society will be held in Porter Hall A19 A on Wednes
day evenings; beginners 7:15-8:15 pm and advanced 
beginners 8:30-9:30 pm. Call 521-6722 for more 
information or to enroll.
Women in Science meets every Wednesday from 
6:30-7:30 pm in the Womens Center. Contact Tara 
at x8-8010 or thin with questions
---------------- MUSIC
Compline, Prayer at the Close of the Day is sung 
every Sunday at 9:30 pm at the Heinz Chapel. For 
more information, call 682-6886.
Overpass, Depth, and Hurl will play an all ages 
show at the Graduate Student Coffeehouse Thurs
day at 7:30 pm. Tickets are $4 and can be bought at 
the door. Call x8-6975 for more information.
The Emerson String Quartet will perform Mon
day, March 21 at the Carnegie Music Hall at 8 pm as 
a part of the Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society 
Series. The program features Mozarts Quartet in D 
Maj or Hoffineister, the American premiere of String 
Quartet No. 9, and Beethovens Quartet in B-flat
major, Op. 130 with Grosse Fuge, Op. 133. Call Joan 
Sher at 624-4129 for more information.
Makiko Nishio is giving a graduate flute re
cital on Saturday at 8 pm in the Mellon Institute 
Auditorium. Works by Wdior, Karg-Elert, and 
McCauley will be performed by Nishio and Jamie 
Boyd, piano and Lenny Young, oboe.
The River City Brass Band will perform This 
Green and Pleasant Land on Friday at Mount 
Lebanon High School on Tuesday, at Gateway High 
School in Monroeville on Thursday, and at the Pal
ace Theater in Greensburg on Saturday. All shows 
are at 8 pm. Call 322-RCBB to make reservations or 
for more information.
________ NOTICES
AB Lectures presents acclaimed poet Nikki 
Giovanni in Readings and Recitiations Monday, 
March 21 at 7:30 pm in the Ballroom.
MAYUR is organizing Holi celebrations (din
ner, cultural show, and dancing) on Friday at 6:30 
pm in the Ballroom in Skibo. Admission is free for 
members, $8 for non members. For information, 
contact mm3m or x8-3023.
The Society of Physics Students invites every
one to join them for the Physics Olympics, Saturday 
March 19 at 2 pm in DH 2315. Cost is $12 per team, 
with teams of four persons. Prizes will be awarded to 
the top three teams. Events will include: guessing 
orders of magnitudes, building a barge to hold the 
most weight, playing Battleship with subatomic 
particles, building the tallest tower, sharpshooting 
with lasers and mirrors, racing helium balloons, and 
Fruity Physics! Register with Lori Marcus in Wean 
Hall 7325 by March 14. Contact Martti Sloan at x2- 
2115 for more information.
The Creative Writing Program presents fiction 
writer Ellen Currie this Friday at 7 pm in the 
Adamson Wing of Baker Hall. The reading is free 
and will be followed by a reception. Contact Brian 
Yoshinaka at 682-3207 for more information.
Noam Chomsky, Institute Professor of Linguistics 
and Philosophy at MIT and a leading critic of US 
foreign policy and the domestic media will be aired 
on "Eyes Wide Open" with Jimmer Endres and Jon 
Slenk at 5:30 pm onTuesday on 88.3fm WRCT.
Gathering Storr and Residence Life is sponsor
ing a discussion on sleep culture at CMU on Wednes
day at 9 pm in the Morewood TV Room. Experts from 
Heatlth Services and the Counseling Center will be 
on hand to answer questions and lead discussion.
 ___ SPORTS
The mens tennis team begins its spring season 
Saturday in a home meet against Washington and 
Jefferson at 1:30 pm.
The womens lacrosse team is holding practices 
for their spring season Tuesday nights on the turf 
from 7-10 pm and Thursdays on the CFA lawn from 
4:30-7 pm. Contact Astrid Rapp at 422-8130 for 
more information.
The mens lacrosse team practices on Tuesdays 
and Thursdays from 7-10 pm on the turf. Contact 
Josh Marks at x8-3947 for more information.
________ THEATER
Harold Pinters Modern Classic The Caretaker,
starring Bingo OMalley, Richard McMillian, and 
Bradley Dean will be performed at the City Theater 
this month. Call Sara Durkacs at 431 -CITY for more 
information and tickets.
Flying Pig Theater is pleased to announce the 
addition of new faces to its improvisational com
pany, Reality Optional. The group will perform at 
the Artery in Shadyside on Saturday at 8 pm.
 ___RELIGION
Ecumenical Holy Communion, sponsored by the 
Episcopal and Lutheran Campus Ministries, is held 
Wednesdays at 5 pm in the Heinz Chapel.
Tech House will host a weekly Bible Study at 7
pm on Thursdays. For more information, call x2- 
2484.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday with a happy 
half hour (hors doeuvres) at 5:30 pm, services at 6 
pm, and dinner following. Call 621-8875 for more 
information of to RSVP.
Daressalam Islamic Center offers weekly congre
gational prayers at noon on Fridays. For more infor
mation, call 682-5555.
New Hope Christian Community Church in
vites all students to services on Sundays at 11 am in 
the Central Christian Church (134 N. Dithridge). 
For more information, call 621-6760.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church holds worship 
service Sundays at 11 am and college class at 9:45 
am. Shadyside College Fellowship'is on Fridays at 
6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette Ediger at 
682-4300.
The Lutheran University Center, located at 4515 
Forbes, invites you to join in an Episcopal Lutheran 
Shared Eucharist on Sundays at 11 am at the 
Lutheran Univeristy Center. Call x682-6886 for 
more information.
The Church of the Ascension (Episcopal) welcomes all students to join those who worship, serve 
and fellowship there. They hold services on Sundays 
with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a college class at 9:30 
am, and morning worship at 11:00 am in the chapel 
located on the comer of Ellsworth and Neville in 
Oakland. A Eucharist is also held on Wednesdays at
7 am. For more information, contact campus minis
ter Brian VanderWel at 621-4361.
Prayer at the Close of the Day, sponsored by the 
Lutheran Campus Ministry, is held Sundays at 9:30 
pm in the Heinz Chapel. This Sundays organist will 
be Larry Marietta, of Fox Chapel Presbyterian 
Church, Scott Township. For more information, call 
682-6886.
C-Map Bubble Butt and Karen,
You two are very special to me, 
and I would love to make love to you 
both again real soon. Im sorry my 
penis is so small Karen.
Love, Wally
Deep deep deep deep poet at the Yard, 
your eye contact disgusts me. Please stop.
To: My Little Cat 
From: The Poet
Hope you have a great birthday! March 15! :D
Put yer ego in,
Take your ego out,
Put yer ego in,
And shake it all about.
Do the Hokey Mokey 
and turn yerself around 
Thats what its all about!
Nardo,
You were the best lay Ive ever experienced.
Love, THE GRINCH (who stole Christmas, and 
your virginity)
To the human Pez dispenser:
What will we do without you?
-Joanna,
Your hair is lovely. Bet its Angel Soft
Cream of Wheat is very mushy 
Gavins eyebrows are oh-so-bushy
Summarize and analyze, I saw you in the com, I'm 
sure glad I met you now that you're out of kiddie 
porn..
XZHow much do I love thee? Why don't you learn 
how to count? I mean, you want me to do all the 
work? Get real, dork.
Lightfoot,
So when are you going to let me drive your car? You 
know I drive stick ....
SG
I would do anything with gloves, but I won't do that. 
Actually, if the money was right, I probably would 
do that.
Kappa Kiristen,
Flex those biceps for me baby!
You Weight (Room) Watcher
Whompum,
Don't be a clusterfuck. Remember I'm your Unixl, 
baby!
Congratulations new ACSPS!
From  ACS redhead.
I've drank your wine, and tasted your fruits, so how 
'bout bein' my sweet patoots.
Sometimes I look at you and know exactly what 
youre thinking. 1?3?
Did/you know that chocolate covered raisins are 
from New Jersey?
What do people have to do to get some privacy 
around here?
And what if I was only looking for someone to dance 
with?
Im looking for NJM.
We toast to 
being single 
sleeping double 
seeing triple
Hey Kappas,
You really know how to throw a formal.
Do I really have to wear the boutonniere?
To the Marty look alike,
How about working out with me?
voX PoPuli
Vox Populi= Voice of the people! Send Vox and 
Calendar sublissions to the Calendar and Vox drop 
folders via Appleshare, drop in the Tartan mailbox 
at the Skibo info desk, email to gh27, or mail them 
to The Tartan, Box 17, CMU, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
Deadline is Wednesday at 8 pm for the followng 
Mondays issue. Placement can never be guaranteed 
due to deadlines and space limitations.
