SPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Lunar Gala showcases student fashion lines  B8
INSIDE:
Whats new for 201213? [C3]
Room selection explained [C4]
Your guide to 2012 housing options [C613]
HOUSING GUIDE 2012
Womens tennis sweeps Slippery Rock 90  A92012 Housing Special: Section C
BRENT HEARD
Staffwriter
Friday morning, Carnegie 
Mellon alumnus (HS 80) and 
The Last Lecture co-author Jeffrey Zaslow died at age 53 due 
to injuries he sustained in a 
car accident. Zaslow lost control of his vehicle on a snowy 
road in northern Michigan.
Zaslow, a Philadelphia native, graduated from Carnegie 
Mellon with a creative writing 
degree. He was a member of 
the Pi Lambda Phi fraternity, 
and served as editor-in-chief 
of The Tartan.
After Zaslow attended the 
?nal lecture of  late Carnegie 
Mellon computer science professor Randy Pausch, Really Achieving Your Childhood 
Dreams, he wrote an article 
on the subject for the Wall 
Street Journal. He then Zaslow 
began working on The Last 
Lecture with Pausch. Zaslow 
soon befriended Pausch, who 
was suffering from terminal 
pancreatic cancer.
The Last Lecture was a hit. 
It became a New York Times 
bestseller in 2008 and has 
been translated into 48 languages, selling more than 
5 million copies in the U.S. 
alone.
The book propelled Pausch 
and, to a degree, Zaslow into 
the national spotlight.
Anne Witchner, former director of student activities at 
Carnegie Mellon, met Zaslow 
while he was a student. 
Zaslow was a very bright 
young man, Witchner said. I 
knew he would do well.
Zasow returned to Carnegie Mellon for orientation 
every year after he wrote The 
Last Lecture, and also spoke at 
Homecoming events and other functions. 
Witchner recalled that 
Zaslow would always stay 
for book signings after his 
speeches, and never left until 
every single persons copy was 
signed.
He had a total understanding of the human condition, 
and was a very down-to-earth 
person who saw the world in a 
very sensible way, Witchner 
said.
Zaslow was also a consistent contributor to the Wall 
Street Journal, as well as the 
author of numerous non?ction books, such as The Girls 
from Ames. He collaborated with Rep. Gabrielle 
Giffords and her husband on 
their memoir, Gabby: A Story 
of Courage and Hope.
Other notable works of 
Zaslows include Highest Duty, 
a book co-written with Captain Chesley Sullenberger, the 
pilot who landed U.S. Airways 
Flight 1549 in the Hudson River in January 2009.
Zaslows ?nal book, The 
Magic Room: A Story About the 
Love We Wish for Our Daughters, was released in January 
of this year.
Zaslow was twice 
named best columnist 
by the National Society of 
Newspaper Columnists, and 
received the Will Rogers Humanitarian Award in 2000.
According to a statement 
Wall Street Journal editor Robert Thomson made to the papers staff, Jeffs writing, for 
the Journal and in his books, 
has been a source of inspiration for many people around 
the world and his journalistic 
life has been a source of inspiration for all journalists.
Zaslow began his career 
writing for the Orlando 
Sentinels magazine section. 
He then took a position as a 
staff writer at the Wall Street 
Journal and, after winning a 
competition  to replace writer 
Ann Landers, published 
a front page 
feature for the Chicago SunTimes.
Zaslow also made numerous media appearances, on 
programs such as 60 Minutes, The Tonight Show, The 
Today Show, Oprah, Larry 
King Live, and Good Morning 
America.
Zaslow is survived by 
his wife, Sherry 
Margolis, and his 
three daughters: 
Jordan, Alex, 
and Eden.
thetartan.org
@thetartan
February 13, 2012
Volume 106, Issue 18
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
This year, proposed Port 
Authority service cuts could 
affect many Carnegie Mellon 
students and others af?liated 
with the university. On Jan. 
18, the Port Authority Planning and Development Committee introduced a fare increase and service reduction 
proposal, which would cut 
current service hours by 35 
percent, effective Sept. 2. A 
fare increase, effective July 1, 
would accompany the service 
changes. The service changes 
have been proposed as a response to the Port Authoritys 
$64 million budget de?cit.
The Port Authority has 
been cutting service for several years. According to Port 
Authority data, in 2007, bus 
services were cut by 15 percent and over 250 Port Authority employees were laid 
off due to budget shortfalls. In 
March 2011, the Port Authority scaled back services by another 15 percent, eliminating 
29 routes and reducing service on another 37 routes. Bus 
fare has also been increased 
several times since 2001.
The steady decrease in 
available bus service has 
changed the way that Carnegie Mellon students travel. According to Lieutenant Joseph 
Meyers of the University Police, Carnegie Mellon shuttles 
and escort buses gave 40,000 
more rides in 2011 than they 
did in 2009. Meyers, who 
oversees transportation for 
the University Police, said that 
he believes the increased ridership was due to the recently 
expanded reach of the shuttle 
routes, along with Port Authority cuts.
Meyers said that if additional routes were necessary 
for the Carnegie Mellon shuttles, they would be added, 
but only after more research 
and information was obtained 
about the Port Authority cuts. 
My top priorities are safety 
and consistency, so all students can do what they need 
to do, Meyers said.
The planned service reduction is not, however, a foregone conclusion. Announced 
route eliminations have been 
scaled back in the past. For 
instance, the 15 percent service reduction in 2007 was 
planned and announced as a 
35 percent reduction. However, former Pennsylvania 
Governer Ed Rendell granted 
the Port Authority a one-time 
emergency fund of $45 million dollars. This money allowed the Port Authority to 
retain more routes. But the 
$45 million dollars has run 
out now, and the Port Authority once again faces major service cuts.
According to Heather Pharos, a Port Authority spokesperson, the Port Authority 
considers several factors when 
deciding how and where to 
reduce service. Among them, 
Pharos said, are ridership 
levels, the presence of other 
transportation options in the 
area, and operating costs.
But Pharos said that all areas would be affected by the 
proposed cuts. Theres really 
no fat to trim in the route system, Pharos said. There are 
no easy decisions to make. 
While we are proposing the 
elimination of probably about 
half of our routes, there isnt a 
single route that wouldnt see 
a reduction.
According to Pharos, one 
of the effects of the service 
reduction would be a severe 
drop in nighttime service. 
Only 12 routes would continue to run after 10 p.m. Among 
them would be the 61B and 
the 86.
In addition, Pharos said, 
the Port Authority would have 
to lay off several hundred 
employees.
Pharos said that the Port 
Authority has entered what 
is known in the mass transit 
industry as the death spiral, in which service must 
be reduced and fares must be 
raised in order to save money, 
which in turn reduces pro?ts 
as ridership drops. She said 
that this is not a problem that 
the Port Authority can ?x on 
its own. We need something 
thats a dedicated solution at 
the state level, and something 
that deals with in?ation, 
Pharos said.
Such a solution may take 
some time to come about. 
Pennsylvania Governor Tom 
Corbetts 201213 budget, 
which he released on Tuesday, 
does not address mass transportation. Carnegie Mellons 
Student Senate has created a 
petition against the Port Authority service cuts at www.
stoppatcuts.com, which simultaneously sends emails 
to Corbett, the Pennsylvania 
State House transportation 
committee, and the signers 
districts representative, urging them to support Pennsylvania House Bill 2112.
House Bill 2112 would 
fund mass transit using money from tolls gathered on the 
Pennsylvania Turnpike. A 
BRENT HEARD
Staffwriter
Tom Corbett, the governor 
of Pennsylvania, unveiled his 
new 201213 budget to the 
public last Tuesday, revealing 
heavy funding cuts to state 
universities.
Speaking to the Pennsylvania General Assembly, 
Corbetts address outlined 
his proposed budget for the 
coming year. He said, We 
will not spend more than we 
have.
The $27.1 billion state 
budget also cut funding to 
numerous social welfare 
programs while maintaining 
funding for correctional facilities  something which 
hasnt happened in the last 
10 years.
Despite the reduction in  
the higher education budget, 
this proposal is meant to 
shelter public schools from 
any more funding cuts, 
and will not raise taxes for 
Pennsylvanians.
In his speech, Corbett 
called the proposal a budget 
grounded in dif?cult realities 
Last Lecture co-author Jeff Zaslow dies in car accident
From left to right: The Tartans masthead during Zaslows  
tenure as editor-in-chief; the staff of The Tartan (Zaslow: back row); 
a Tartan article written by Zaslow; a group photo of Pi Lambda Phi 
(Zaslow: second row, second from right); Zaslows yearbook photo.
Budget de?cit threatens bus service
See BUS, A3
Governor slashes state college fund
See BUDGET, A3
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Courtesy of nmarritz on Flickr
Governor Corbetts budget, released on Tuesday, will cut funding to 
state universities, including the University of Pittsburgh, by 30 percent.
Photos from The Thistle and The Tartan archives

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  February 13, 2012
The Role of Technology 
and Policy in Financial 
Services
Monday at noon 
Hamburg Hall 1502
Speaker Anita Sands will 
give a lecture on policy in the 
workplace, drawing from her 
experience as group managing director and chief operating of?cer of UBS Wealth 
Management Americas.
 Sands educational background includes a Ph.D. in 
atomic and molecular physics and a ?rst-class honors 
degree in physics and applied 
mathematics from Queens 
University Belfast.
She also graduated from 
Carnegie Mellons public 
policy and management masters program with the highest honors. Recently, Sands 
was named one of the Ten to 
Watch in 2012 by Registered 
Rep., a market-leading ?nancial information source.
Drawing on Darwin: 
Evolutionary History and 
the Use of Science in 
History
Monday at 4:30 p.m. 
Gregg Hall (Porter Hall 100)
Edmund Russell, a professor in the department of science, technology, and society 
at the University of Virginia, 
will discuss evolutionary history, a young ?eld of history 
that explores the impact of 
human beings on the evolution of populations of other 
species and vice versa.  
Russell will also touch on 
neurohistory, another developing ?eld that draws on 
neuroscience to understand 
history.
This lecture was originally 
scheduled for last Thursday, 
but was moved due to scheduling con?icts.
Ali Momeni
Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
Kresge Theatre, 
College of Fine Arts
Ali Momeni, an assistant 
professor of art specializing 
in sculpture installation sitework, will discuss his work 
as part of the School of Arts 
Spring 2012 lecture series. 
Momeni is a builder, 
composer, and performer 
interested in the poetics of 
gesture, affect, and timing. 
His artwork makes use of 
many types of technology to 
explore the social lives of objects and their various functions in art.
More than Slave Food: 
The African Roots of 
American Foodways
Thursday at 4:30 p.m. 
Rangos 3, University Center
Michael Twitty, a writer 
and culinary historian, will 
discuss foods critical role in 
the development and de?-
nition of African-American 
civilization. 
Twitty is the featured 
speaker in Carnegie Mellons 
observance of Black History 
Month. Twitty sees himself as 
personally charged with the 
preparation, preservation, 
and promotion of African 
foodways.
Sculpting Organs: 
The Mechanics and 
Dynamics of Tissue 
Development
Thursday at 4:30 p.m. 
Margaret Morrison A14
Celeste Nelson, an assistant professor of chemical 
and biological engineering 
at Princeton University, will 
give a talk on organ development. 
During tissue development, simple epithelial 
sheets and tubes are remodeled to form the complex 
structures of functional organs, including the fractal 
structures of the vascular system and lung airways. This 
process is known as branching morphogenesis. Nelson 
will discuss how to combine 
engineered tissues and computational models to uncover 
the mysteries of this intricate 
process.
Compiled by
BENJAMIN MADUEME
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
Magpies, a collection of 
short stories by Lynne Barrett published by Carnegie 
Mellon University Press, has 
been awarded the gold medal 
for general ?ction in the sixth 
annual Florida Book Awards. 
The short stories in the 
book differ dramatically 
in style. One of the stories, 
Links, borrows the layout 
of a web page to tell a story 
of the dot-com boom, while 
Cave of the Winds uses the 
alphabet to narrate a story 
about Floridas hurricane 
season. Barrett also explores 
a wide spectrum of genres in 
her book, ranging from mystery to magical realism. Most 
of the stories take place in 
Florida, where Barrett was 
born.
In a time of broad experimentation in short ?ction, what is refreshing about 
Lynne Barrett is that her stories have honest-to-goodness 
plots. Reading stories which 
actually tell stories is a satisfying thing, Gerald Costanzo, professor of English and 
founder and director of the 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Press, said in a press release. 
The Carnegie Mellon 
University Press was originally founded in 1972 as a 
publisher of poetry. Since 
then, the organization has 
also published classic contemporaries, short ?ction, 
and regional social history. 
Among the press most notable achievements is the 
1986 publication of Thomas 
and Beulah, a book of poems 
by Rita Dove, which went on 
to win a Pulitzer Prize the following year.
Carnegie Mellons Information Networking Institute 
(INI) will be offering an Executive Master of Science in 
Information Assurance program beginning in the 2012 
fall semester. An option for 
non-degree students to pursue certi?cates in this area 
will also be available. 
The new program is 
geared at business leaders 
and tech experts who see cyber-security as a top priority. 
The program will train 
such audiences in the use 
of tools like forensics to 
identify and track malevolent 
attackers.
This is an interdisciplinary program designed to 
meet the needs of todays 
fast-paced global business 
environment combining online sessions with periodic, 
short sessions on the Carnegie Mellon campus, INI director Dena Haritos Tsamitis 
said in a university press release.
The INI program spans 
20 months over the course of 
?ve semesters. Students will 
spend a total of 24 days on 
campus during the program.  
Students will also complete 
six hours of online coursework every semester.
Students pursue the program with a cohort of about 
20 peers, who add enrichment to each others professional network and enhance 
learning by sharing their own 
knowledge that has come 
from experience, Tsamitis 
added in the press release.
Compiled by
BENJAMIN MADUEME
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
CMU Press Magpies wins gold medal award in Florida
INI creates new program for business, tech students
New origami club holds Late Night event
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
38 / 35
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
39 / 31
THURSDAY
High / Low
41 / 34
FRIDAY
High / Low
37 / 28
SATURDAY
High / Low
37 / 30
Suspicious Person
Feb. 2, 2012
University Police responded to S. Craig Street for a report of a scruffy white male 
who was photographing people without consent. The male 
had been photographing people while on a public street, 
and there was no violation of a 
law. The male was gone upon 
of?cers arrival.
Suspicious Person
Feb. 4, 2012
Carnegie Mellon Police 
and EMS units responded to a 
mens restroom in Porter Hall 
for a man down. Upon arrival, it was established that 
it was a homeless male sleeping on the ?oor. The male was 
escorted from the building, 
advised that Carnegie Mellon 
was private property, and told 
not to return.
Carrying a False ID
Feb. 6, 2012
A professor turned in a 
card holder found in Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Hall. An 
inventory of the card holder 
included a legitimate Carnegie Mellon ID and a fake California drivers license. The 
student was contacted and 
admitted to obtaining the fake 
ID. She was issued a citation 
for the violation.
Theft
Feb. 7, 2012
University Police took a 
theft report of a Lenovo ThinkPad laptop computer valued 
at $2,000 from a room in 
Doherty Hall. The ThinkPad is 
property of the Carnegie Mellon School of Art. This case is 
under investigation.
Vehicle Damage
Feb. 7, 2012
University Police responded to the parking lot near 
Hamerschlag Hall for a report 
of vehicle damage. A parking 
gate arm had come down on a 
vehicle. Parking Services also 
responded to the scene. Information was taken for a report.
Harassment by 
Communication
Feb. 7, 2012
A female student reported 
to University Police that she 
has been receiving unwanted 
and sexually explicit text messages from a Carnegie Mellon 
alumnus, after she asked him 
to stop. University Police contacted the male and explained 
that further contact would result in ?ling criminal charges.
Mock Crime Scenes
Feb. 8, 2012
University Police responded to several places on campus 
for a report of chalk outlines 
of bodies and evidence markers. Mock Crime Alerts were 
also located. 
Further investigation revealed that it was an art project done by a student. Due to 
the alarm created by this incident to the campus community and the artists failure to 
obtain permission, discipline 
is pending.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Jennifer Coloma/Staff
University of Pittsburgh pre-pharmacy sophomore Sanaa Ahmed uses phizz pieces to create a sphere at the Carnegie Mellon Origami Clubs Late 
Night event on Friday. The Origami Club was founded in 2011. Fridays Late Night event was attended by both Pitt and Carnegie Mellon.students.
Statistically Speaking
First-edition bundles of Sonys PlayStation Vita portable gaming console are shipping to eager gamers this 
week, while next Wednesday will mark the devices of?cial U.S. launch. But with cheap casual gaming apps 
easily available on customers smartphones, some are 
wondering if Sonys ambitious pricing will scare potential buyers away. Here are a few numbers to put things 
into perspective:
$49.99
Cost of Uncharted: Golden Abyss, a premium Vita 
launch title58%
Percentage of early 2012 mobile gaming market share 
owned by iOS and Android combined
$249.99
Cost of the PlayStation Vita, Wi-? edition78%
Percentage drop in sales two weeks after the devices 
December launch in Japan
Compiled by 
BENJAMIN MADUEME
Sources: techcrunch.com, 
pcworld.com, and 148apps.biz
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO

---------------------------------------------------

February 13, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
PATRICK GAGE KELLEY
Co-Publisher
U.S. Secretary of Energy 
Steven Chu spoke at the Tepper School of Business on 
Thursday in a largely unpublicized visit to campus. Chu 
spoke to an audience of fewer 
than 60 students and faculty 
members with a short set of 
prepared remarks, followed 
by an extended question and 
answer session.
Chu opened by telling the 
story of how he became involved in energy research. 
He left his faculty position at 
Stanford University to lead 
research at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory after 
he became very concerned 
about climate change. 
He spoke about the early 
days of his research there, 
when Chu and his colleagues 
had not yet secured grant 
funding for alternative-energy 
research. During those days, 
they held informal meetings 
and seminars without the 
promise of funding, as they 
taught themselves to tackle 
what Chu called the energy 
problem.
After Chus prepared remarks, the topics of audience 
questions ranged from the 
Fukushima nuclear plant to 
Solyndras bankruptcy, and 
Chu addressed each question 
at length. Michael Lawrence, 
a ?rst-year masters of business administration student, 
asked what the government 
had learned from Solyndra, 
the now-bankrupt company 
that produced thin-?lm solar 
cells and was backed by the 
Department of Energy. Chu 
said, Whenever there is new 
emerging businesses, not all 
of them succeed.
Regarding the Fukushima 
meltdown, Chu has already 
publicly stated that the United 
States must continue to support investment and licensing 
for nuclear power plants, a 
message he echoed in his talk.
When asked about the future of smart grid technologies, Chu launched into a 
detailed explanation of how 
current power systems waste 
electricity, how to level loads, 
and even how auto-defrost 
works in a modern refrigerator. 
He said that he sees improvements in power distribution and electrical conversion 
as upgrades that will bene?t 
everyone who pays an electricity bill, as well as waste 
less energy. But Chu said that 
few changes have been made 
to our power distribution system. Our electrical system is 
something that would be recognizable by Edison and Westinghouse and Tesla, Chu said.
The talk, while often 
highly technical in nature, 
was geared toward the many 
MBA students present. Chu 
presented alternative energy 
technologies and innovation 
as business opportunities. It 
is okay to make money and 
save the world, Chu said. 
There, I said it.
He not only discussed investment and innovation in 
nuclear power, solar cells, and 
smart grids, but also talked 
about business plans for technology that are already in 
place. He discussed a ?nancial 
market for investing in medium-risk renewable energy 
technologies or businesses 
that manage the permits, liability, installation, and repair 
of solar panels on residential 
rooftops.
Chu won the Nobel Prize 
in Physics in 1997, has been a 
professor of physics, and was 
the chair of the physics department at Stanford, as well 
as the director of Lawrence 
Berkeley National Laboratory. 
He was appointed secretary of 
energy in 2009. Tim McNulty, 
Carnegie Mellons associate 
vice president for government 
relations, reiterated that the 
students and faculty made it 
possible for two U.S. secretaries to visit campus just this 
month.
Pittsburgh was just one 
stop on Chus trip this week, 
which he took in order to participate in events across the 
country to highlight Americas 
investments in cutting-edge 
energy innovations that are 
laying the building blocks for 
an American economy built to 
last, according to a Department of Energy press release. 
While in Pittsburgh, Chu 
toured the facilities at the Department of Energys National 
Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL). The NETL is the 
only national laboratory that 
remains government-owned 
and -operated; the others are 
now operated by local businesses or universities.
The program was hosted 
by the Tepper School of Business Energy Club and the 
Carnegie Mellon Electricity 
Industry Center (CEIC).
similar funding scheme was 
proposed in 2007 with Act 
44, which would have turned 
Interstate 80 into a toll road, 
some of the proceeds from 
which would have gone to 
fund mass transit in Pennsylvania. Rendell, during his 
term, signed the bill into law. 
However, the federal government rejected the application to toll Interstate 80, and 
in 2010, Act 44 mass transit 
funding was cut in half. According to Pharos, this funding cut led to the March 2011 
service reduction.
While the state searches 
for a funding solution, Carnegie Mellon students worry 
about how they will get from 
one place to another. 
I rely heavily on the Port 
Authority system to get to and 
from work, said Carrie Weintraub, a ?rst-year information 
systems major. If bus service 
were to be reduced, then I 
would not be able to have the 
job that I have now.
Sophomore chemistry major Haylie Kim said that  she 
feels that Pittsburghs bus service is already too sporadic.
I feel as though the bus 
schedule is sometimes very 
unreliable, Kim said. There 
have been many instances 
in which I needed to get on 
the bus to go to an important 
meeting or an interview, and 
ended up having to wait for 
the bus that was said to come 
in ?ve minutes for half an 
hour. A substantial service 
reduction would make buses 
even rarer.
Weintraub also worried 
that a reduction in bus service 
would trap students on 
campus. 
The buses also allow students to get out and about in 
order to explore the city and 
get out of the CMU Bubble,  
Weintraub said. Without the 
buses, the extent to which 
students would get off campus would be Craig Street, 
Squirrel Hill, Shadyside, and 
Oakland. That would be a real 
shame, since there are some 
real gems downtown and on 
the South Side.
Pharos said that it is the 
Port Authoritys sincere hope 
that it will not have to reduce 
service. Unfortunately, for 
a lot of the people who take 
these routes, there will be no 
options left, Pharos said. Its 
been very dif?cult for us to 
come up with this. We want 
to have these routes in our 
system. Theyre all vital.
Editors note: Junior staffwriter 
Soniya Shah, contributing 
editor Greg Hanneman, and 
staffwriter Justin McGown 
contributed to this article.
BUS, from A1
but framed in the optimism 
that we are solving our problems. He continued, Once 
again, revenues do not match 
mandated, escalating costs. 
That means we must continue the course bravely charted 
by this assembly in the year 
just passed.
This budget proposal 
comes on the heels of last 
years controversial budget, 
which slashed funding to 
many state programs in an 
attempt to reconcile $4 billion dollars in state debt.
This year, the state is expecting to incur a $719 million de?cit by the end of 
June, and is seeking revenue 
outside of tax increases.
The state plans to fund 
itself through a new fee on 
Marcellus Shale drilling; a 
30 percent cut in funding to 
the University of Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania State University, and Temple University; 
and the elimination of a substantial amount of line-item 
spending.
I am submitting to you 
a budget proposal that is at 
once lean and demanding. 
In the coming weeks we will 
sit down to work out the ?-
nal details as we map out our 
course. But this map comes 
with boundaries. We will not 
spend more than we have, 
Corbett said in his speech. 
We will not raise taxes. 
There is no talking around 
these limits. Every dollar 
taken in tax is one less dollar 
in the hands of a job holder 
or a job creator. Every dollar 
spent by government is one 
dollar less in the sector that 
creates real prosperity.
Despite these arguments 
in favor of the new budget, a 
number of lawmakers stand 
in opposition to the proposal.
The of?ce of Pennsylvania 
State House Democratic Caucus Chairman Dan Frankel 
(D.23rd district, Allegheny 
County) released a statement 
in rebuttal to the budget announcement on Tuesday. In 
the statement, Frankel said 
that Pennsylvanias transportation infrastructure requires 
investment that it will not receive in the new budget and 
called the cuts to the University of Pittsburghs funding 
devastating.
State representative Jake 
Wheatley (D.19th district, 
Allegheny County) agreed. 
Wheatleys of?ce released a 
statement in which he said 
that Corbett should have addressed transportation in his 
budget. 
I was amazed that the 
governor punted again on 
what to do about transportation funding, Wheatley 
said in the statement. He also 
echoed Frankels remarks regarding education.
In his own press release, 
State Senator Wayne Fontana 
(D.42nd district, Allegheny 
County) summed up his reaction to the proposal by saying, Less than a week after 
we celebrated Groundhog 
Day, Pennsylvanians had a 
Groundhog Day moment of 
another kind as Governor 
Corbett outlined his 201213 
state budget yesterday. Apparently, the governor wants 
a repeat of last years budget, 
which means more painful 
cuts, no direct job creation 
funding, and no concern for 
ensuring that wealthy corporations pay their fair share.
A budget re?ects priorities, Frankel further said in 
his statement. It concerns 
me that this budget makes 
signi?cant cuts in health 
care, zeroes out the diabetes 
program, cuts public welfare, 
and slashes higher education, 
but increases funds for controversial partisan and ideologically-based programs like 
Voter ID and crisis pregnancy 
centers.
In a statement released by 
his of?ce, University of Pittsburgh Chancellor Mark Nordenberg acknowledged that 
the governor is under great 
pressure to balance the budget, but said that the funding 
cuts will be devastating for 
Pitt.
Unfortunately, what almost certainly will prove to 
be most memorable about 
2012 is that an already brutal 
budget year has been made 
far worse by todays proposal 
for deep and disproportionate cuts emerging from the 
state capital, Nordenberg 
said. It would reduce our 
state support, if adjusted for 
in?ation, to the lowest level 
since Pitt became a state-related university.
Some Pitt students also 
expressed discontent with 
the new budget. First-year 
biomedical engineering student Maria Alessi said, Im 
very disappointed in the 
government and think they 
are being far too extreme in 
this case. The tuition at Pitt 
and Penn State, at around 
$15,000, are already some 
of the highest of any public 
university in the entire U.S.; 
many families already are 
struggling just to be able to 
pay that. 
She added, I see Corbetts 
actions as being extremely 
shortsighted, negligent, and 
irresponsible.
Namita Matharu, a ?rstyear neuroscience major, concurred. Pitt is a renowned 
university for its academia 
as well as its exceptional research opportunities, she 
said. The new budget will be 
a major setback on our education and each student and 
professor will, undoubtedly, 
feel the effect heavily.
JACKSON LANE
Staffwriter
World Bank Group president Robert B. Zoellick spoke 
at Kresge Theatre last Thursday as part of the universitys 
Thomas M. Kerr, Jr. Prelaw 
Societys annual lecture. 
The event was co-sponsored by the Center for International Relations and Politics 
and the global studies major.
The moderator for Zoellicks address was social and 
decision sciences professor 
Kiron Skinner. 
While the event was technically part of the pre-law 
program, Skinner and Joseph 
Devine, Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies at the Dietrich College of Humanities 
and Social Sciences, emphasized that bringing Zoellick to 
Carnegie Mellon was a joint 
effort among several different 
parties.
Our pre-law program is 
quite proud of our expanded 
mission, but to command the 
kind of gravitas that would 
enable us to attract a speaker 
of the type and stature as our 
guest today, we needed to 
partner with a more nationally visible entity and persona, Devine said. Fortunately, 
we had both in our Center for 
International Relations, with 
which we are co-sponsoring 
todays event, and its director, 
Dr. Kiron Skinner.
Mr. Zoellick brings a truly 
global perspective to issues 
related to the intersection of 
politics, culture, markets, and 
technology, Skinner said in a 
university press release.
The event was mostly a 
question and answer session 
between audience members 
and Zoellick. 
A large crowd of people 
lined up to ask Zoellick questions, ranging from University 
of Pittsburgh and Carnegie 
Mellon undergraduates to a 
former U.S. executive director 
at the World Bank.
The majority of questions 
related to environmental or 
human rights issues, some of 
which took on a confrontational tone. 
One student asked if Zoellick understood the concept of 
self-determination, and if so, 
whether he regretted supporting the Iraq War.
Throughout the questions, 
Zoellick emphasized that the 
World Bank seeks to solve 
problems by providing economic incentives, rather than 
by forcing governments to 
take certain actions.
I dont tell countries what 
to do, Zoellick said. Our primary way of helping countries 
and companies is showing 
them whats in their best interest in the long run.
One topic that came up frequently was climate change. 
Many students felt that 
Zoellick was not doing enough 
to prevent carbon emissions, 
deforestation, and other environmentally harmful activities. However, near the 
beginning of the talk, Skinner and Zoellick made a point 
of discussing how the World 
Banks strategy can encourage environmentally friendly 
practices.
The role of the bank is to 
connect issues of development 
and growth with the climate 
change agenda, and in some 
instances, weve been more 
successful than the environmental negotiations, Zoellick 
said. Weve done projects in 
45 developing countries that 
range from technology to energy ef?ciency to deforestation, and these projects are on 
the ground examples of how 
to make the issues work.
Nevertheless, many in the 
audience asked Zoellick why 
he was reluctant to take regulatory action with regards to 
carbon emissions.
If I create an incentive 
system to arbitrate so that 
somebody can pay companies 
to produce the carbon elsewhere, and its a net bene?t, 
thats a good thing, Zoellick 
responded. But if you try to 
deal with the world of carbon 
production in a command and 
control regulatory way, youre 
not going to be successful.
Despite the occasionally 
confrontational tone of the forum, many students left with a 
positive impression.
It was enlightening to hear 
his comments and be aware of 
the varied activities carried 
out by the World Bank, said 
Satyam Bakliwal, a masters 
student in business administration. When the political 
process isnt capable of offering the most ef?cient ways of 
dealing with the above concerns, the World Bank is in a 
powerful place to do so, and 
that is the hope.
World Bank president faces confrontational questions
Courtesy of Simone D. McCourtie / World Bank
Robert Zoellick, the current president of the World Bank, answered 
questions on topics ranging from the Iraq War to environmentalism. 
U.S. energy secretary visits CMU
Patrick Gage Kelley/Co-Publisher
U.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu visited Tepper and spoke about the 
business of energy in a little-publicized event.
Pitt loses funding 
in new Pa. budget
Proposed PAT cuts worry students
Unfortunately, 
for a lot of 
people ... there 
will be no 
options left.
Heather Pharos
Port Authority 
spokesperson
BUDGET, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  February 13, 2012
SCITECH BRIEFS
Skin cancer drug reverses Alzheimers
Researchers at Case Reserve Universitys School of 
Medicine recently gave large 
doses of Bexarotene, a drug 
that treats skin cancer, to mice 
that showed signs of Alzheimers disease. Within 72 hours, 
the mice showed improvements in memory and an over 
50 percent  decrease of amyloid beta, a protein associated 
with Alzheimers in the brain.
Before giving the mice 
Bexarotene, the researchers 
allowed the mice to walk into a 
cage where they were given an 
electrical shock. After receiving a dose of Bexarotene, the 
mice showed improvements in 
memory by remembering the 
previous shock and not entering the cage. The researchers 
are hopeful that these results 
could be the origins to a complete cure for Alzheimers.
Source: Science magazine
Kodak stops digital camera production
Kodak has announced that 
it will no longer produce digital cameras, as the company 
tries to monetize after its recent bankruptcy. However, 
Kodak isnt completely exiting 
the digital camera ?eld, as the 
company may instead license 
its brand name to other camera makers. 
In addition, the company 
has decided to cease production of pocket video cameras 
and digital frames. With Kodak cameras receiving less 
demand than Fuji and other 
brands of cameras, it is seeing 
a higher need to diversify. This 
phasing out of Kodaks dedicated capture devices business 
will occur during the ?rst half 
of 2012. Despite these cuts, 
the company will continue to 
honor product warranties and 
continue to offer product service and help.
Source: CNN 
Is Venus rotation slowing down? 
Venus rotation on its axis 
seems to be slowing down, 
according to recent measurements. In the 1990s, NASAs 
Magellan probe measured the 
Venusian day to be 243 Earth 
days, but the European Space 
Agencys Venus Express orbiter recently found the planets 
rotational period to be 6.5 
minutes slower. This difference may prevent scientists 
looking to send rovers over 
to the planet from accurately 
predicting the location of features on the Venusian surface.
Scientists speculate that 
the cause may be friction from 
weather systems, or that gravitational interactions between 
the Earth and Venus might 
be manipulating the planets 
angular momentum. Another 
possibility is that the Magellan probe might have recorded 
the Venusian rate of rotation 
when the planet was rotating 
faster than normal.
Source: Science magazine
Google announces new music device
Google representatives recently announced a prototype 
entertainment device that 
will make the company more 
involved in consumer electronics. In May 2011 the device was merely announced as 
possible project, but last week 
the company ?led an application with the Federal Communications Commission to test 
the device.
The device is said to be a 
music hub of sorts that can 
be hooked up to speakers or 
to a stereo and stream digital 
?les stored in Google Music 
or on other devices. The device can also be connected to 
smartphones or tablets, allowing multiple linked devices to 
play music at the same time 
in multiple locations. The device would run on the Android 
platform.
Source: The New York Times
Hackers attack CIA, other sites
The CIAs website was 
hacked in a distributed denial 
of service attack by the group 
Anonymous last Friday afternoon. Hacker groups such 
as this have been attacking 
a series of law enforcement 
agencies and government 
websites. As soon as the website was rendered inaccessible, 
one of the Twitter accounts 
associated with Anonymous read, cia.gov DOWN. 
#UMAD?#Anonymous. 
It took several hours to 
bring the CIA website back up, 
but it only took minutes for 
other government sites that 
had been attacked in the past, 
like the U.S. Department of 
Homeland Security, to reboot. 
Anonymous has been attacking sites like the U.S. Department of Justice, Universal 
Music Group, and the U.S. 
Copyright Of?ce in response 
to the recent FBI raid on the 
?lesharing site MegaUpload. 
Source: RT News
Lethal form of protein identi?ed
Scientists from the Florida 
campus of the Scripps Research Institute have identi?ed a highly toxic protein that 
causes severe neuron degradation and eventually results 
in death. The protein acts 
similarly to the prions that 
cause mad cow disease, but 
it is more than 10 times more 
deadly than currently identi?ed toxic proteins. 
The scientists learned that 
the proteins high toxicity 
arises largely from its unique 
structure, alluding that similar proteins may play a key 
role in other disorders such 
as Alzheimers and Parkinson 
diseases.
Source: Science Daily
Compiled by
AMRITHA PARTHASARATHY
AMRITHA PARTHASARATHY
Staffwriter
Taste is an integral part 
of peoples daily lives. With 
so many different reasons 
to eat or not to eat a certain 
food, taste vastly simpli?es 
the decision of what to eat, 
and whether to keep eating. 
Yet scientists know less about 
taste than they do about hearing and sight. What makes it 
so complicated? How exactly 
does taste work?
The sensation one interprets as taste is not the product of the tongue alone  a 
persons tongue, nose, ears, 
and eyes are all part of the 
sensory overload that people 
experience when they bite 
into a piece of food. According to WiseGeek.com, What 
we perceive as taste is a complex interplay of smelling 
and tongue-tasting. The nose, 
tongue, eyes, and brain all 
evolved together to ensure 
that we consume the good 
stuff....
The tongue is the main 
organ of the somatosensory 
system  the system that controls the actual taste of food. 
In the tongue, there are specialized groups of cells known 
as taste buds. Almost 100,000 
taste buds are located in the 
back and front of the tongue, 
while others are located in the 
sides and roof of the mouth. 
The tongue is special in that it 
can only perceive ?ve tastes: 
sweet, sour, bitter, salty, and 
umami (meaty).
Evolutionarily, there is 
a reason people experience 
these particular tastes. Generally, basic tastes can be classi?ed into two categories: good 
(appetizing) and bad (unappetizing). Donuts and chocolate, for example, taste good 
because they are sugar-rich 
and therefore sweet. 
Sweet foods, in terms 
of evolution, were seen as 
good items for humans to 
eat, especially in the huntergatherer days when fruits 
were a major part of human 
consumption. At the same 
time, bitter things were generally predictors for certain 
poisons, and the bitter taste 
served as a warning to not 
consume the food.
But the senses are obviously not limited to sweet, 
sour, salty, bitter, or umami. 
In fact, the most savory taste 
that people associate with 
food is directly related to its 
smell. For example, popcorn 
has a very distinct taste. When 
asked to describe it, an average person might say buttery 
or salty. Some might even describe it as crunchy, referring 
to the crunchiness of popped 
kernels. However, the only 
real taste that people pick up 
is saltiness. The buttery odor 
is associated with taste even 
though it is actually how the 
popcorn smells.
According to the American 
Academy of Otolaryngology 
website, Our bodys ability 
to sense chemicals is another 
chemosensory mechanism 
that contributes to our senses 
of smell and taste. An example is the feeling of hotness 
or coolness that is associated 
with certain foods. People 
might say that a food is spicy, 
but in reality, it just generates a lot of heat within their 
mouth.
These hot and cold sensations people perceive are not 
tastes, but are detected by 
thermoreceptors within their 
mouths through chemesthesis, which is the ability of 
special receptors in peoples 
mouths to detect certain 
chemicals. If one were to place 
a chili pepper or a menthol 
strip in his or her mouth, heat 
would be generated or absorbed, and would activate the 
thermoreceptors. The brain 
then perceives the hot or cold 
sensation as a taste.Juan Fernandez/Staff
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
Make some room, Hamerschlag Hall and Wean Hall. A 
new state-of-the-art building 
to house the department of 
biomedical engineering and 
the Energy Futures Institute is 
in the works.
The university has recently committed to building a 
100,000-square-foot biomedical engineering, nanotechnology, and energy facility that 
will sit among Hamerschlag, 
Wean, and Roberts Engineering halls. Pradeep Khosla, 
dean of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology (CIT), said that 
he has been pushing for the 
approval and construction of 
this building for the last ?ve or 
six years. 
We are going to do this 
building because, for the college to be competitive, we 
need to have state-of-the-art 
infrastructure that allows us to 
recruit the best and the brightest faculty, which in turn allows us to recruit the best and 
brightest students, Khosla 
said. I think this building is 
going to be critical in maintaining our competitive edge.
Khosla said that the building will be built predominantly for research use. In addition 
to housing the biomedical engineering department, there 
will be a 10,000-square-foot 
nanofabrication facility, over 
twice as large as the current 
4,000-square-foot facility in 
Hamerschlag Hall. Lastly, 
it will house Carnegie Mellons Energy Futures Institute, 
which focuses research on 
solving energy problems, such 
as the transition from fossil fuels to new energy sources and 
developing a smart electricity 
grid, according to the departments website.
Hoping to follow in the 
footsteps of the Gates Hillman 
Complex, which won LEED 
Gold certi?cation last November, the new building will 
employ sustainable green 
technologies. Khosla said that 
the university is still working 
with the buildings architect, 
OFFICE 52, to ?nalize those 
plans. We know it will be at 
least LEED Silver, probably 
more, he said.
The new building will 
connect two ?oors to Hamerschlag, Wean, and Roberts 
Engineering halls, and an additional connection will be 
made to Porter Hall. There is 
no such connection right now, 
and I wanted to integrate this 
side of campus, which is mainly engineering, into one cohesive hall, Khosla explained. 
He hopes that this integration between buildings will 
encourage collaboration between students and researchers across departments.
The area around the new 
building will be slightly altered, as well. The patio that 
connects Wean, Hamerschlag, 
and Porter halls will be ?lled 
in with more green area so the 
Mall will extend from the College of Fine Arts all the way to 
Hamerschlag Hall. This, Khosla explained, is the way that 
the new buildings architect 
thinks that Henry Hornbostel, 
the campus original architect, 
intended it to be.
Its going to be a building 
that satis?es the contemporary needs, but respects the 
Hornbostel vision and puts it 
in perspective, Khosla said.
Bryan Good, a senior biomedical engineering student, 
is excited for the plan. Currently, most of the research 
labs are located at the Pittsburgh Technology Center, 
which is very inconvenient for 
students and faculty, Good 
said. Having more research 
facilities on campus will help 
get more undergrads involved 
in research and also help entice the best faculty to join the 
department.
The new building is included in the Institutional Master 
Plan, a 10-year plan that includes projects like relocating 
the Tepper School of Business 
and expanding the Heinz College. Plans for the new building are currently in the process 
of gaining approval from the 
universitys board of trustees. 
Khosla has already begun fundraising for the event. 
Theres a lot of excitement 
amongst our alumni to help 
support what they think of as 
a worthwhile and visionary 
project, Khosla said.
Khosla is con?dent the 
project will be well received 
by the board. Im hoping 
about 30 months from now, 
the building will be ?nished, 
he said.
New research building will make campus more connected
Courtesy of OFFICE 52
The new building will sit among Wean, Hamerschlag, and Roberts Engineering halls, as seen above in the artists rendition created by the 
architectural ?rm designing the building, OFFICE 52.
HOW THINGS WORKMultiple senses work together to make taste possible

---------------------------------------------------

February 13, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
Twitter study looks for most effective ways to share info
LIGIA NISTOR
Junior Staffwriter
A 2011 CNN report indicated that there were over 300 
million Twitter users. Despite 
these large numbers, users 
may not know how their followers react to their posts. 
There might be the occasional 
unfollowing or retweeting, 
but no additional feedback is 
typically given.
Presented with this problem, researchers at Carnegie 
Mellon University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), and the Georgia Institute of Technology recently 
published a study designed 
to understand the different 
reactions spurred by Twitter 
updates.
The study was led by Paul 
Andr, a postdoctoral fellow 
in the Human Computer Interaction Institute, and accompanied by MIT Ph.D. student 
Michael Bernstein and Georgia Tech Ph.D. student Kurt 
Luther. They will present their 
?ndings on Monday at the Association for Computing Machinerys Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative 
Work in Seattle, Washington.
Andr said that the question that ignited this research 
was the following: There are 
many mechanisms of positive 
reinforcement, such as favoring tweets, like buttons on 
Facebook, or +1 on Google, 
but what would a dislike button tell us? There is an accepted practice of online social interaction, as Carnegie Mellon 
computer science Ph.D. student Rob Simmons con?rmed, 
but the norms are not clear to 
everyone. 
If everyone understood 
the best way to phrase something ... people could improve 
the way they write content, 
Andr said.
The research aimed to raise 
awareness among Twitter users of what makes their tweets 
more likeable. The design implications are also valuable: A 
reader might be able to ?lter 
the Twitter feed content according to their preferences.
The researchers designed 
a website called Who Gives 
a Tweet? (WGAT), where followers could rate the tweets 
of other users. Users could 
provide feedback for a feed 
by clicking one of several options: Worth Reading (WR), 
OK, and Not Worth Reading (NotWR).
Users could also explain 
why they chose a particular 
rating by selecting one of the 
following: funny, exciting, useful, informative, 
or arrogant, boring, depressing, and mean. After 
WGAT launched, it was featured on news sites like CNN, 
Mashable, TechCrunch, and 
OneForty. The press allowed 
the site to go viral. This popularity resulted in the collection 
of 43,738 tweet ratings from 
1,443 users in late December 
2010 and January 2011.
Two kinds of ?ndings were 
revealed by the study: the 
types of tweet categories that 
were liked or disliked, and 
the reasons why. Andr mentioned that the skewed sample 
population of the study  
information-centric people or 
CNN readers  might in?uence the division of tweets into 
categories. Future research 
might try to generalize to other populations and Twitter as a 
whole.
The categories of tweets 
that were deemed worth 
reading were self-promotion 
(linking to something that the 
tweeter created), information 
sharing, and questions for followers. Presence maintenance 
(saying Hello people!), conversational, and me now (the 
tweeters current status) were 
the most strongly disliked.
Foursquare location checkins were especially hated by 
users because of their irrelevancy. Every so often, someone checked in to a different 
city or even country, and users 
were typically annoyed by this. 
On the whole, the sample of 
Twitter users liked 36 percent 
of tweets, disliked 25 percent, 
and were neutral to 39 percent.
A tweet being boring 
was the most common reason to dislike it, accounting 
for 82 percent of why a tweet 
was rated NotWR. Other reasons included repeating old 
news (something as old as 
four hours was considered old 
news on Twitter), being cryptic (posting a link without a 
contextual explanation), or 
using an excessive number of 
# and @ signs.
When following celebrities or organizations, people 
looked for professional insights and were disappointed 
when receiving personal ones. 
News organizations were expected to only give a taste of the 
story in the tweet and not reveal all the information. Three 
components that increased the 
likelihood of a posts popularity were information, humor, 
and conciseness.
Happy feelings were valued, as opposed to whining, 
which was disliked. The researchers advise tweeters to 
use a unique hashtag in questions so followers can keep 
track of the conversation.
The online persona that 
a person creates using social 
media may become more and 
more important for potential 
employers and personal connections. Last month, for example, a Twitter joke about 
destroying America (meaning having a good time) resulted in two British citizens 
being deported from the U.S., 
according to the Washington 
Post.
Jennifer Coloma/Staff
Postdoctoral researcher Paul Andr led a study that aimed to understand 
how various types of Twitter updates were perceived by users.
Write for SciTechscitech@thetartan.org
If everyone 
understood 
the best way 
to phrase 
something ... 
people could 
improve the 
way they write 
content.
  Paul Andr
Postdoctoral  
researcher

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
CHRISTA HESTER *
Co-Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
KATIE CHIRONIS * 
Online Editor
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
MICHAEL KAHN 
Contributing Editor
WILL PENMAN
Staffwriter
PATRICK GAGE KELLEY *
Co-Publisher 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SARAH ZAKRAJSEK
Personnel Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
COURTNEY WITTEKIND *
Contributing Editor
GREG HANNEMAN
Contributing Editor
MARICEL PAZ
Contributing Editor
CELIA LUDWINSKI
Contributing Editor
STACEY CHIN
Contributing Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  February 13, 2012
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stephanie Guerdan, Jackson 
Lane, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Rachel Bullen, Stephanie Blotner, Connie 
Chan, Jay Chopra, Hannah Dellabella, Sage Po, 
Michael Setzer, Stephanie Stern, Laura Stiles
LAYOUT
Jennifer Coloma
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Judges should maintain control of electronics rules
The Pennsylvania Supreme Court 
has proposed changing its rules 
of criminal procedure. Since early 
January, court of?cials have tossed 
around the idea of more clearly de?ning their ban on the transmission of communications in state 
courtrooms.
Of?cials are now proposing a ban 
on computers, iPads, cell phones, 
and other electronic devices that 
would allow real-time reporting  
via text or tweet, for example. 
According to supporters of the 
changes, the proposal is meant to 
make sure jury members dont base 
decisions on media reports; to protect witnesses from intimidation; 
and to minimize distractions during 
court proceedings.
Rules that limit communication 
between the courtroom and the outside world are already in place and 
already as de?ned as they need to be.
Currently, the Rules of Criminal 
Procedure of the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania assert the court can 
prohibit communication via telephone, radio, television, or advanced 
communication technology. Additionally, photography and videography are prohibited. 
However, each judge presiding 
over a courtroom is allowed to interpret these rules as he or she sees ?t.
Some Pennsylvania courtrooms 
have allowed real-time reporting to 
take place. 
According to the Centre Daily 
Times, live tweeting was allowed 
during the preliminary hearing of 
two Pennsylvania State University 
of?cials involved in the Jerry Sandusky scandal. 
Live reporting from the courtroom already has adequate 
restrictions. To add new and heavier 
shackles to courtroom reporting 
would only slow down the inevitable 
dissemination of information. If the 
current rule is changed, reporters 
will still report live; they will just be 
running in and out of the courtroom 
handing slips of paper to waiting 
colleagues or making quick phone 
calls to the of?ce. Depending on the 
courtroom, reporters have to do this 
anyway. But that is the sort of freedom of interpretation that makes the 
current law work just ?ne; judges 
can decide how to run their courtrooms on a case-by-case basis.
As Judge Mark Bennet of the 
United States District Court for the 
Northern District of Iowa said in an 
interview with the ABA Journal, I 
thought the publics right to know 
what goes on in federal court and 
the transparency that would be given the proceedings by live-blogging 
outweighed any potential prejudice 
to the defendant.... I allowed it because of my belief that we are the 
most mysterious branch of federal 
government and we need to ?nd 
ways to be more transparent.
It is essential to protect the already limited reporting rights that 
journalists have in the courtroom. 
The proposed change in the Rules of 
Criminal Procedure would only undermine transparency and hinder 
the publics right to know what is going on in its court system.
Occupy Pittsburghs claim of victory is unwarranted
This afternoon at 5:30 p.m., Occupy Pittsburgh will rally and make 
statements for the press at Peoples 
Park. Afterward, they will march 
away from the encampment site. 
This quote, taken from an article on 
Occupy Pittsburghs website, represents the belief of the local Occupiers 
that their movement has ended on a 
victorious note. 
They stayed encamped in BNY 
Mellons park until Wednesday, two 
days after the third of?cial eviction 
date.
The court-ordered end of the 
camps is not a victory to be relished, 
no matter how many extra days the 
group was able to stay in the park. 
If Occupy Pittsburgh members were 
serious in their ?ght against the 1 
percent, then leaving would not have 
been an option. 
Think back to the infamous protests at University of California, 
Davis. 
Those Occupy protestors fought 
for their beliefs, no matter the violence and opposition they faced.
In hindsight, the Occupy Pittsburgh group had a media opportunity that was completely wasted. In 
recent months, the press coverage 
on the movement has died down. 
This was Occupy Pittsburghs shining chance to draw swarms of media back to the groups cause and its 
plight. 
Even in the days leading up to the 
eviction date, the Pittsburgh PostGazette speculated about the groups 
fate.
Simply put, last Wednesday was 
a let down. For the months of effort 
and protesting that went into the 
movement, it seems as though the 
group just gave up without a ?ght; it 
didnt stick to its guns. 
Members of Occupy Pittsburgh 
rented out luxury hotel rooms to 
monitor last weeks eviction. According to the Pittsburgh TribuneReview, protesters stayed for three 
nights in the Omni William Penn 
Hotel, which overlooks the park. 
Rooms at the hotel cost about $250 
per night. 
Apparently, the group partially 
paid for the luxury rooms through 
donation money that was collected to winterize the tents and buy 
warm clothing for the protesters 
who stayed in the park. The rooms 
were further subsidized through the 
groups general fund and private 
donations.
This kind of hypocrisy, added to 
the wasted media opportunity and 
lackluster eviction, makes the Occupy Pittsburgh movement disappointing at best.
Editorial Dissent 
Michael Kahn 
The editorial board claims that 
the Occupy Pittsburgh protesters 
failed to take advantage of a media 
opportunity when they were evicted from Mellon Green last week. 
However, the boards underlying assumption  that protests are only 
legitimate when their members are 
arrested or abused  overlooks 
the achievements of Occupy Pittsburgh and the Occupy movement in 
general.
In Pittsburgh, Occupy protesters 
have been camped out since October 
 118 days from beginning to end. 
Although the movement lost steam 
as time went on, it was a constant 
presence throughout much of the 
winter. We should be admiring their 
dedication, not ridiculing them for 
leaving when ordered to do so rather 
than face arrest.
Occupy Pittsburgh did not see the 
violence between protesters and police that characterized the Occupy 
Oakland movement or the G-20 here 
in 2009. If police brutality is what 
the board considers necessary to 
make an eviction less lackluster, 
then I gladly accept this so-called 
disappointment.
Oklahoma tax on video games isnt the answer
BRADEN KELNER
Junior Staffwriter
Oklahoma Democratic State Representative William Fourkiller has 
proposed a bill that, if passed, will 
tack on an extra 1 percent tax for violent video games to fund the Childhood Outdoor Education Revolving 
Fund and the Bullying Prevention 
Revolving Fund. 
Although the bill has good intentions to combat childhood obesity 
and bullying, the legislation is poorly executed both in terms of its presentation and in its aims to combat 
these problems.
If the point of the law is to ?ght 
childhood obesity and bullying 
through taxation of media, why is 
this new tax only for video games? 
Movies, magazines, and music, 
which are highly accessible to young 
crowds, have the potential to reach 
a much wider audience than video 
games. 
Moreover, these forms of media 
can convey violence and promote 
inactivity just as effectively as video 
games. If Fourkiller had included 
these types of media, the bill could 
have had a lasting impact on bullying and obesity if passed.
If the bill hopes to stop such issues, it should impose a much larger 
tax in order to prevent sales of violent video games. As a consumer of 
video games, I can say that an extra 
60-cent tax on top of a $60 price tag 
will not deter anyone from getting 
their video game ?x.
The revision of the legislation to 
have a larger tax increase for violent 
video games, however, could serve 
to make consumers think twice 
about their purchases and, in turn, 
stop what Fourkiller believes to be 
the problem at its source.
One of the most alarming portions of the bill is the statement that 
all teen-rated games are considered 
to be violent. 
This means that even motioncontrol games like Dance Central, 
which promote physical activity 
and cooperation through choreographed dance routines, are in the 
running to be taxed. 
If the intention of the bill is to 
promote health and cooperation, 
it should not be taxing games that 
actively ?ght these problems in the 
same way that it taxes truly violent 
games.
If Fourkiller had hoped to combat the issues of child obesity and 
violence, his bill would have been 
thoughtfully executed to include a 
more speci?c list of taxable items 
based on actual violence in video 
games, rather than the given ESRB 
rating. 
For now, though, one can only 
hope that this rash bill is signi?-
cantly altered if it has any hopes of 
becoming law.
Reaction to poem shows severe censorship policy
ELANA GOLDBERG
Junior Staffwriter
Chinas authoritarian government is as tense a topic now as it 
was 60 years ago. Various activist 
groups attempts to modernize China into a democracy only increase 
the tension. 
Last Friday, these tensions were 
pushed even further when Zhu Yufu, 
one of the founders of the federally 
unrecognized Democracy Party of 
China, was sentenced to seven years 
of imprisonment for circulating a 
poem titled Its Time online. He is 
accused of writing this poem to rally 
democratic activists to promote an 
uprising in China.
From an American perspective, 
Zhu should have the rights to free 
speech and the press. 
Freedom of speech is an innate 
liberty to humanity that should not 
be repressed.
The alleged subversion of state 
power not only has a grave overtone, 
but it is also dif?cult to repeal, especially with a criminal record. 
Zhu was imprisoned twice before this incident: once from 1999 
to 2006 for helping the foundation 
of the Democracy Party, and again 
from 2007 to 2009 for pushing a police of?cer. 
In a nutshell, the law states that 
anyone who tries to defame the government in order to undermine its 
authority will endure a long prison 
sentence. 
This includes even the most minor of offenses, like a blog article, or 
in this case, a poem.
Zhus poem suggests that the 
Chinese citizens should assemble to 
attempt a rebellion against the authoritarian party, like the Jasmine 
Revolution in Tunisia early last year, 
that resulted in the ousting of Tunisian president Zine El Abidine Ben 
Ali. The Jasmine Revolution argued 
for fair and equal rights, and it expanded into Egypt. 
Zhu insinuated that the Chinese 
activists should cause a similarly 
effective uproar to ?ght for democracy. 
It may not be the prettiest or 
cleanest campaign, but in the face of 
such opposition, great measures are 
often necessary to ensure freedom 
of speech.
If Zhu had written this poem in 
America, a lawsuit and a trial would 
most likely not even be considered. 
Its a simple classi?cation of freedom 
of expression, a right that should be 
extended universally. In America, 
the implications of Chinas regulations on freedom of expression seem 
unjust. 
The Chinese government plays 
by a different set of rules, a set that 
Zhus actions clearly break. Zhu attempted to undermine the government and therefore broke the law. In 
China, it is just another example of 
committing a crime.
Perhaps the Chinese government 
will someday reach a compromise 
and accept such democratic values, 
but for now, the words of Abraham 
Lincoln come to mind: The best 
way to get a bad law repealed is to 
enforce it strictly. 
The best way to repeal Zhus sentence and ?ght for democracy might 
be to revolt, or it might be to play the 
game and wait for the other team to 
lose its footing.
...in the face of 
such opposition, 
great measures are 
often necessary to 
ensure freedom of 
speech.
Juan Fernandez/Staff

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
February 13, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Compiled by Jonathan Carreon
Valentines Day is this week. So we asked,
In one word, how do you feel about Valentines Day?
LETTER TO THE EDITORSenate should work with UC staff
In the Jan. 30 issue of The Tartan, Student Senate announced its 
intention to evaluate the use of the 
University Center, particularly the 
Scotland Yard game room on the 
lower level (Initiatives by Student 
Senate are underway). We of the 
University Center staff support this 
idea. However, Student Senate is 
not working with us to see this idea 
come to fruition.
Unlike other buildings on campus, the University Center has a 
dedicated staff working nearly 
24 hours a day, every day, to supervise and maintain the building. 
This staff, of which I am a part, believes foremost that the University 
Center is a student space.
We are interested in what students want to do with the University Center. If something isnt working well or could work better, we 
want students to approach us with 
a solution. 
It is disheartening to read 
that Student Senate is meeting 
and proposing changes without 
reaching out to the building staff 
beforehand.
It would seem as though those 
students believe we are resistant 
to their ideas and their proposed 
changes. That is entirely untrue.
Judy Ghogomu, a facilities manager for the University Center, and 
I have spoken with a few students 
regarding minor issues about the 
game room, including non-student 
use of the facilities, new foosball 
equipment, and the security of the 
In The Groove dance game. Each 
time, we have come to the conclusion that a student committee 
is necessary to oversee the game 
room and its use and maintenance. 
Each time, we have seen no one 
come forward to put the work into 
developing such a committee.
It does nothing to announce to 
the student body an amorphous 
and lofty goal to evaluate the use 
of student space if you will not put 
in the footwork to enact change. 
We would very much like to be a 
part of the conversation toward 
solutions instead of loosely associated with unnamed problems.
Douglas McIntyre
University Center Of?ce Assistant
Editors note: Douglas McIntyre 
(HS 10) was editor-in-chief of The 
Tartan in fall 2009.
Proposition 8 ruling could have lasting success
DANIEL COHANPOUR
Junior Staffwriter
Last Tuesday, the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals ruled, in a 21 
decision titled Perry v. Brown, that 
California Proposition 8  the 2008 
ballot measure that limited marital relationships to opposite sex  
was unconstitutional. Proposition 8 
drafters claimed that they will appeal 
to higher courts, as expected.
Gay marriage freedoms in California have ?uctuated, to say the least, 
throughout the years. 
Before the introduction of Proposition 8 on Nov. 5, 2008, California 
boasted its title as the second state to 
allow gay marriage  regardless of 
the rights four-month duration. The 
proposition, upon passing, trumped 
the state courts ruling that allowed 
gay marriage.
This recent decision is different from past legislation opposed to 
Proposition 8 in that it may actually 
work. 
Many legal analysts predict that 
the ruling will be appealed to the 
Supreme Court, and will be picked 
up next term. As Andy Pugno, the 
general counsel, stated in a letter to 
Proposition 8 supporters earlier this 
week, The 9th Circuits decision is 
completely out of step with every 
other federal appellate and Supreme 
Court decision in American history 
on the subject of marriage, but it really doesnt come as a surprise, given 
the history of the 9th Circuit, which 
is often overturned.
What differentiates this present decision is that the scope of the 
ban lift was more narrow this time 
around. It looks solely at the issues of 
Proposition 8 in recognizing the title 
of gay marriage and does not, according to the appeals court, extend 
to the controversy over whether or 
not same-sex couples may be denied 
the right to marry in the future.
With the ruling most likely being appealed to the Supreme Court, 
there are two possible outcomes.
Because of the limited controversial nature of the ruling, it is likely 
that even Republican justices will 
rule in favor. It is also likely that Justice Anthony Kennedy  classi?ed 
as the swing vote because he is the 
only moderate in the Supreme Court 
 will rule in favor of this narrow 
judgment.
Regardless of the route that the 
appeals ruling takes, I predict a favorable outcome because of the 9th 
Circuits smart legislative thinking in 
constructing a narrow ruling.
The new ruling speci?cally stated 
that Proposition 8s sole objective 
was to lessen the status and human 
dignity of gays and lesbians in California, which runs against constitutional protections, the 14th Amendment being the lead constitutional 
precedent.
Unlike other 9th District legislation on gay marriage, the recent 
action is limited to California, even 
though the 9th District Court has 
jurisdiction in other states. This, in 
itself, makes it more unlikely for the 
Supreme Court to reject the ruling.
As Judge Stephen Reinhardt 
wrote in the majority opinion, California had already extended to committed same-sex couples both the 
incidents of marriage and the of?cial 
designation of marriage.... Proposition 8s only effect was to take away 
that important and legally signi?-
cant designation. He then explained 
the nature of Perry v. Brown. This 
unique and strictly limited effect of 
Proposition 8 allows us to address 
the amendments constitutionality 
on narrow grounds, Reinhardt said.
For now, Proposition 8 is unconstitutional in California. That in itself 
justi?es celebration. However, the 
ruling represents a larger triumph. 
Finally, after a history of tumultuous 
rulings, California is beginning to 
understand that Proposition 8 is not 
simply an affront to gay marriage, 
but a violation of basic civil rights. 
Due to the differences in the current ruling from the past attempts 
to legalize gay marriage in California, future success in the movement 
is more attainable now than ever 
before.
Music school should diversify its career training
ERIN YANACEK
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons School of Music is an esteemed program; training with its distinguished faculty has 
led many alumni to notable careers. 
However, while the school is well intentioned in training its students, it is 
somewhat misguided, overemphasizing one very specialized aspect of the 
music industry.
The school places the highest 
value on the orchestral career track. 
This is due in part to the close relationship between the school and the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. 
This relationship is positive and assures high-caliber training, but orchestral careers have become overprioritized while other possibilities 
such as chamber music, music business, and music education seem to 
go unappreciated. Orchestral careers 
may have been more viable in previous generations, but with shrinking 
funds, even reputable orchestras are 
going bankrupt and jobs are disappearing.
The School of Music is ?lled with 
creative and intelligent students. 
Unfortunately, with their highly specialized orchestral training, their job 
prospects tend to be bleak and depressing. 
Students ?nd themselves approaching graduation with no plans 
for the future except to win an audition. The tough competition for a 
position in a professional ensemble 
becomes even more daunting as students leave the comfort of the academic system. It is not uncommon 
for over 100 people to audition for a 
single position. If students begin to 
look at other career possibilities, they 
will realize that they arent quali?ed 
or prepared to do much outside of 
their classical training.
The Master of Arts Management 
classes offered through the Heinz 
College have the potential to arm 
music students with the skills they 
need to become successful entrepreneurs. Regrettably, there is little cooperation between the two schools, 
and it is very dif?cult for music students to take these classes.
Fortunately, newly appointed interim head of the School of Music 
Denis Colwell has some very positive ideas about how to evolve the 
program. 
Already in his time as an administrator, he has encouraged the 
creation of a student government, 
which gives him a direct link with 
the opinions and ideas of the student 
body. An entrepreneurship program 
speci?cally for music students is rumored to be in the works as well. Colwell understands the importance of 
helping students create marketable 
niches for themselves, and students 
and administrators alike would bene?t from following his lead.
Students should be strongly encouraged by the culture of the institution to be versatile and creative 
entrepreneurs. 
One idea would be to have students present their art within the 
community, where it can be made 
relevant and interesting to the audience. The work of music students 
laboring for hours to get exactly the 
right tone quality, rhythm, and intonation will all be for naught if they do 
not understand how to realistically 
market their abilities. One could even 
argue that it is the duty of musicians 
today to assist with the evolution of 
their art form within society  if it 
does not evolve, it will go extinct.
Carnegie Mellon does a good job 
of classically training students. If the 
program is able to mature into something creative, relevant, and vibrant, 
its students will be prepared to succeed and it will be able to ?ourish as 
one of the great music schools. Carnegie Mellons administration should 
acknowledge the natural evolution 
of musical art forms and help its students properly prepare to thrive in 
the job market.
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
It would seem 
as though those 
students believe 
we are resistant 
to their ideas and 
their proposed 
changes. That is 
entirely untrue.
Isaac Jones
ChemE and Chemistry
Sophomore
Meh.
Stephen Tonti
Drama
Junior
Ambrosial.
Dana Shaw
Drama
Senior
Chocolate.
Sissy Henriquez
ChemE and BME
First-year
Angst.
Manasa Reddy
Business
First-year
Possibilities.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

February 13, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
In another battle that came 
down to the ?nal seconds, the 
mens basketball team came 
up short on Friday, losing 
to the University of Chicago 
Maroons 7775.This was the 
second game that the Tartans 
lost by two points or fewer, 
and the third out of the last 
?ve games.
Despite missing a shot at 
the end of the game, sophomore guard Asad Meghani 
played well in crunch time, 
hitting two three-pointers in 
the last 30 seconds of overtime. Meghani ?nished the 
game with a career-high 21 
points, and senior guard John 
Duhring poured in 24 points, 
tying his career high.
The Tartans defense held 
?rm in this match; although 
they allowed the Maroons to 
shoot 47 percent, they were 
able to force two missed shots 
at the end of regulation time 
to send the game into overtime.
During the overtime, the 
Tartans were down by ?ve 
points before Meghanis two 
three-point shots brought 
Carnegie Mellon within one 
point of the Maroons. A Maroons free throw secured a 
two-point lead.
Then the Tartans coach 
Tony Wingen called upon 
Meghani to take the potentially game-winning shot, but 
his three-pointer fell short as 
the clock expired.
The Tartans shot over 40 
percent from the ?eld and 
70 percent from the charity stripe, which is usually a 
recipe for success, but proved 
to be useless against the Maroons.
The Tartans game against 
the Washington University in 
St. Louis Bears yesterday was 
similar to their game against 
the University of Chicago. 
Carnegie Mellon shot 47 percent from the ?eld, including 
42 percent from the threepoint line. However, their 
defense allowed the Bears to 
shoot 53 percent.
Duhring, who scored 23 
points, was the catalyst of the 
Tartans offense. When Carnegie Mellon needed to make a 
run in the second half, down 
6052, Duhring led a 70 run 
by scoring ?ve of the seven 
points. Additionally, his lategame layup brought the score 
within three points (7370) 
with ?ve minutes to go, but 
the Tartans could not prevent 
the Bears 102 run.
Junior guard Andre Moore 
poured in 16 points, Meghani 
added 15 points, and sophomore forward Christian 
Manoli racked up 10 points 
and eight assists, a career 
high. In the end, the Tartans 
fell 8879 to the Bears.
The Tartans will return 
home to face Emory University at 8 p.m. in Skibo Gymnasium on Friday.
Womens tennis sweeps 90
CARINEH GHAFAFIAN
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon 
womens tennis team was 
victorious against Slippery 
Rock University, a Division II 
school, this past Friday.
 It was the ?rst match of 
the season, and the Tartans 
won with an overall score of 
90. 
Starting with the No. 3 
doubles, ?rst-year pair Clare 
DuBrin and Bryn Raschke 
came out with a strong 80 
win.
In the singles matches, 
sophomore Katie Cecil at the 
No. 3 was the ?rst to win, with 
scores of 61, 61.
Senior Laura Chen won 
the Tartans third singles 
match at No. 1 singles with 
scores of 63, 64, solidifying 
the teams victory over Slippery Rock. 
It was a great way to start 
the season, Chen said. We 
look forward to the next couple of matches because they 
will prepare us for indoor Nationals in a couple of weeks. 
Senior Courtney Chin 
played a long match at No. 2 
singles; she was the last Tartan left on the courts after 
splitting sets.
Since the match had already been decided in favor of Carnegie Mellon  
after the 50 lead, Chin 
played a third-set tie-breaker 
to decide her match. Chin 
ended with scores of 67, 64, 
and 103.
Everyone has been working really hard in practice so 
far this spring, it was great to 
?nally get out and play some 
external competition, said 
head coach Andrew Girard. 
There are a couple kinks 
that we need to work out here 
and there, but overall a very 
solid performance for our ?rst 
match of the spring.
The Tartans will host Indiana University of Pennsylvania and California University 
of Pennsylvania next Saturday 
at 10:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., 
respectively.
Editors note: Courtney Chin is 
a staffwriter for The Tartan.
File Photo by Tommy Hofman
Senior Laura Chen dominated her matches at No. 1 singles and doubles this weekend.
Mens basketball drops nail-biter
File photo by Tommy Hofman
Senior forward Joe Kromka (No. 23) led the Tartans in rebounding.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  February 13, 2012
Rooney II hires Todd Haley to run Steelers offense
CARL GLAZER
Junior Staffwriter
It seems the time has come 
for a change in the Pittsburgh 
Steelers. With the exception 
of their head coach and offensive skill players, the Steelers 
are some of the oldest in the 
league: They have grizzled 
veterans both on the ?eld and 
in their coaching staff. After 
watching their franchise quarterback, Ben Roethlisberger, 
get knocked down and beaten 
up nearly every play, team 
owner Art Rooney II made a 
change in the teams offensive 
coordinator position without 
consulting head coach Mike 
Tomlin. 
Although it was publicly 
announced that former offensive coordinator Bruce Arians 
retired, there were rumors 
that Rooney forced him into 
retirement. This was an attempt to avoid the bad publicity of not renewing Arians 
contract.Meanwhile, Arians 
became the new offensive coordinator of the Indianapolis 
Colts, further justifying that 
he was forced into retirement 
instead of making the decision 
himself. 
To make matters worse, 
Roethlisberger was publicly 
upset with Arians supposed 
retirement.
Roethlisberger and Arians 
joined at the same time in 
2004 and developed a very 
good rapport. When the news 
of Arians retirement reached 
Roethlisberger, he responded 
by publicly requesting a meeting with Rooney.
To ?ll the void, the Steelers hired Todd Haley to be 
the new offensive coordinator. Haley made his name 
as the offensive coordinator 
for the Arizona Cardinals in 
2008, the season they faced 
the Steelers in Super Bowl 
XLIII. He was then hired to be 
the head coach for the Kansas 
City Chiefs, but was ?red with 
three games left in the season 
due to the Chiefs poor record 
and Haleys poor relationship 
with the players and the front 
of?ce. 
Haleys offensive philosophy is very different in comparison to Arians. Haleys 
game plan is similar to the 
high-octane passing attacks 
used by the Green Bay Packers or New England Patriots. 
This is in stark contrast to the 
Ground and Pound runningbased style that the Steelers 
have employed in the past. 
The players hope this move 
will bring their offense into 
the modern style and eliminate much of the predictability that has plagued them in 
recent seasons. 
While Haley brings a completely different offensive 
philosophy with him, he also 
brings a signi?cantly different 
personality. He has an abrasive personality and has had 
rocky relationships with his 
past teams. The sight of Haley 
and Cardinals quarterback 
Kurt Warner yelling at each 
other became common. There 
were also rumors of Haley and 
Chiefs general manager Scott 
Pioli having strong disdain for 
each other and butting heads 
on personnel decisions.
Many believe Haley was 
added to Tomlins staff not 
only to revitalize the offense, 
but also to put a little more 
pressure on Roethlisberger. 
Roethlisberger was very comfortable with Arians and may 
not have been performing at 
his best. The Steelers believe 
Roethlisberger can turn into 
a 5,000-yard passer, like Patriots quarterback Tom Brady.
But the Steelers have never 
been a pass-?rst team. Their 
offensive line was built with 
the idea of creating holes for 
the running back, and protecting the quarterback was an afterthought. Moreover, having 
Roethlisberger drop back to 
pass 20 more times per game 
will open him up to even more 
hits and injuries.
Another problem is the 
Steelers receivers. Wide receivers Antonio Brown and 
Mike Wallace thrive in the 
deep-passing game. The issue is that most of these deep 
plays are set up by the playaction, and thus need a strong 
running game to succeed. The 
Steelers dont have the wide 
receivers or tight ends to run 
a pass-?rst offensive. 
While Haleys hiring may 
be seen as a way of turning 
Roethlisberger into a better 
quarterback, it is important to 
look at the effect on the rest of 
the offense. Historically, new 
offensive coordinators and 
returning quarterbacks underperform. Fans should not 
be surprised next season if the 
Steelers high-octane offense 
gets stuck in neutral.
Tartans unable to upset Maroons
KATIE KNOX
Junior Staffwriter
The biblical story of David 
and Goliath best describes 
how the stage was set last Friday for the womens basketball teams game against the 
University of Chicago. Unfortunately for the Tartans, the 
story did not play out in their 
favor as Carnegie Mellon was 
unable to pull off an upset 
against the No. 2 Division III 
team in the country.
The Tartans had hoped to 
use some momentum from 
their win against Brandeis 
University last week to hold 
their own against a nationally ranked team. However, 
the odds were not in the Tartans favor, as the team was 
winless in their last 18 games 
with Chicago, which has been 
perfect in its last 23 games at 
home.
The Chicago Maroons kept 
those records alive as they defended their perfect regular 
season record with guns blazing. 
Starting out the game 
on a 133 run, the Maroons 
jumped out to an early lead 
and never looked back. Despite their efforts, the Tartans 
could never shut down Chicagos powerful offense long 
enough to close the gap. 
Chicago went on to take a 
4517 lead into halftime, but 
the story of the second half 
was no different than the ?rst. 
Riding on the coattails of a 
career-best 20-point performance from ?rst-year forward 
Hannah Ballard, the Maroons 
buried the Tartans in the ?nal 
20 minutes of play.
Chicagos solid defense 
made matters even worse 
for the Tartans, as they were 
forced to turn the ball over 30 
times.
The Maroons even found 
a way to shut down Carnegie 
Mellons leading scorer, junior 
forward Emily Peel, by holding her to just 15 points in the 
contest. No other Tartan was 
able to score in the double 
digits. The 9546 win moved 
Chicagos record to 210 
(100 UAA), and extended 
their NCAA Division III record 
for the longest regular season 
winning streak to 39 games. 
With the loss, the Tartans 
record dropped to 813 (28 
UAA).
Yesterday, the Tartans traveled to Washington University 
in St. Louis, the No. 12 team 
in Division III, where they lost 
8674.
The game was fast paced, 
as both teams shot for a high 
percentage. Despite the loss, 
the Tartans outshot the Washington University Bears, pouring in 52 percent from the 
?eld. The Bears shot a respectable 49 percent from the ?eld.
The Tartans balanced offensive attack featured ?ve 
players scoring in the double ?gures. First-year guard 
Chandler Cau?eld and senior 
forward Jennifer Larsen each 
scored 15 points, a career high 
for Cau?eld, who also had a 
career-high seven rebounds. 
Peel added 14 points, while 
?rst-year guard Gabrielle 
West and sophomore guard 
Jacquie Shaw scored 13 and 
10 points, respectively.
The Tartans hung tight 
with the high-ranked Bears, 
but a cold start to the second 
half buried Carnegie Mellon, 
the Tartans missed their ?rst 
?ve baskets, which put them 
down by 14 points. The Tartans will compete at home this 
Friday against Emory University at 6 p.m.
Bryant moves up  the scoring ladder
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
Lakers guard Kobe Bryant 
took another big step in NBA 
history last Monday with a 
long-distance two-point shot 
against the Philadelphia 
76ers. That shot, his 24th 
point of the game, moved 
him past former teammate 
Shaquille ONeal for ?fth top 
scorer of all time
ONeal sits at 28,596 career points, but Bryant now 
sits at 28,662 points. 
Of all the people who have 
been a part of Bryants career, 
the most unlikely was the 
?rst to congratulate him.
The storied rivalry between the former teammates, 
Bryant and ONeal, is well 
documented. But as soon as 
Bryant sank that long-distance two-point shot, ONeal 
called up ESPN reporter 
Stephen A. Smith, who was 
covering the game, and left 
a message for Bryant: Congratulations for being the 
greatest Laker ever.
This is a title Bryant de?-
nitely deserves. But before 
we start looking ahead to 
where he will end up in the 
pantheon of NBA greatness, 
we need to look back at his 
16-year career and appreciate his present game as he 
continues to make history.
Now in his 16th season, 
Bryant has logged more minutes than has any other active player in the NBA. If you 
include almost two seasons 
worth of playoff minutes, he 
has played 18 seasons of basketball. I wont even bother 
listing the number of players 
whose bodies could not handle the physical strain of that 
much basketball, whose mentality was not strong enough 
to push themselves, and were 
then forced to hang up their 
sneakers. 
It is clear that Bryants 
work ethic is unparalleled. 
He takes better care of his 
body  and his game  than 
any other player. That is why, 
16 seasons into his legendary 
career, he can still score better than anybody.
There have been seven 40-
plus point games by players 
aged 33 or older: Bryant has 
four of them, all this season 
and all sequential. He is still 
arguably the most watchable 
and exciting player in the 
league and, in my opinion, 
the best.  
Basketball analysts and 
veterans everywhere will tell 
you that when Father Time 
comes knocking, he hits you 
like a brick wall. While Bryants legs continue to weaken 
and his athleticism dwindles, 
nobody can argue that Bryant has been Father Times 
most worthy adversary in the 
league.
This begs the question, 
however, of where he will 
end up on the ladder of career scoring. He has just four 
players ahead of him: Wilt 
Chamberlain, Michael Jordan, Karl Malone, and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar.
If basketballs history is 
any indication, he will probably ?nish third behind 
Malone and Abdul-Jabbar. 
But keeping in mind his competitive drive and how ?xated Bryant is on the game of 
basketball, I think that even 
Abdul-Jabbars record is in 
jeopardy. 
After all, Bryant is just under 10,000 points away from 
passing Abdul-Jabbar  
roughly 25 points per game 
for the next ?ve seasons. 
Bryant is currently averaging is 29.4 points per game 
in the 2011-12 season. Even 
if he doesnt maintain those 
numbers over the next ?ve 
seasons, he can easily make 
up the difference with more 
seasons. The only question 
that remains is if his body can 
last ?ve, six, or seven more 
seasons. However, passing 
Abdul-Jabbar is not what really motivates Bryant: Winning a sixth championship 
does. I just want number six. 
Im not asking too much. Just 
get me a sixth ring, damn it, 
Bryant said in the post-game 
interview to ESPN reporters 
after last Mondays game.
A sixth championship will 
put him past fellow Laker 
player Magic Johnson and on 
par with Jordan and AbdulJabbar.
This mans thirst for basketball greatness will not be 
quenched until he gets another championship. Frankly, 
this mans thirst for basketball greatness will probably 
never be quenched.
ATHLETE PROFILECze-Ja Tam ready to grind out victories
I just want 
number six. Im 
not asking too 
much. Just get 
me a sixth ring, 
damn it.
Kobe Bryant
Lakers guard
File photo by Tommy Hofman
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
Cze-Ja Tam is a long-tenured athlete; she has been playing tennis for 
10 years, and is beginning her ?nal 
season on the womens tennis team 
this year.
She will graduate from Carnegie 
Mellon this spring with a degree in 
psychology. Planning to continue her 
education in graduate school, Tam 
hopes to one day ful?ll her goal of 
becoming a pediatric nurse practitioner.
With this being Tams last season, 
she has some speci?c goals that she 
wants the team to reach while she 
is still here. I hope our team will 
be able to win ITA indoors, UAAs, 
and make at least the semi?nals of 
NCAAs, Tam said.
During her ?rst year at Carnegie 
Mellon, Tam and the womens tennis 
team won the Intercollegiate Tennis 
Association (ITA) indoor nationals. 
Winning ITA indoor nationals has 
been my proudest moment on the 
team, Tam said.
She boasts a record of 5818 for 
her career in singles matches and 
4116 in doubles matches.
She is a consistent player who 
the team can always rely on to play 
well, said senior teammate Laura 
Chen.
Her success on the court has led 
her to several championship competitions, where head coach Andrew 
Girard says she plays exceptionally.
On the court, Cze-Ja has racked 
up a lot of wins for us over her threeplus years. She has had some clutch 
victories for us, probably most notably her three-set win to clinch the 
match for our team against top-seed 
Denison in the ITA Indoor National 
Championships her freshman year, 
referring to her 75, 63 win in a singles match against Emory University. 
Looking back over the past three 
and a half years, Tam has had many 
memorable moments on the team. 
One of her funniest moments included a disaster at practice. I had to 
make a trip to the emergency room 
after practice, Tam said, who had 
accidentally hit herself on an overhead followthrough.
Moments like these remind Tam 
of what she enjoys most about the 
tennis team: Having teammates 
who are always there for me.
She is very talented and makes 
everyone feel like an important part 
of the team. As a captain, she is really 
committed to team unity, said thirdyear architecture major and teammate Christina Brant.
Tam loves traveling with the team 
and bonding with her teammates on 
the road. The time to chat [with the 
team], and sing songs that coach really dislikes are among my favorites, 
Tam said. She also enjoys eating. [I 
eat] everything. I will eat anything 
and everything, she said.
Tam has found being a Tartan to 
be rewarding, on and off the tennis 
court. Being able to both receive 
a quality education and having a 
strong body of dedicated athletes is 
amazing, Tam said.
Tam mentioned many things she 
will miss about the team after graduation. Team events, coachs amazing speeches, pigging out with the 
team will be missed, Tam said.
Courtesy of Alexabboud via Flickr
Ben Roethlisberger (No. 7) might butt heads with offensive coordinator 
Todd Haley.

---------------------------------------------------

Valentines Day
Cartoonists explore the concept          
of love  B6
02.13.12 Volume 106, Issue 18
LUNAR GALA 

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Check out these Valentines Day-themed 
comics.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents four movies this weekend in 
McConomy Auditorium.
7
Paperhouse
WRCT discusses The Cures Lovesong, one 
of the most covered songs ever.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
CO-PUBLISHER Christa Hester CO-PUBLISHER Patrick Gage Kelley EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Jennifer Coloma
8
3456
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about Facebook 
and studying abroad.
3
...diversions
...this week only
The Frame
Students present an immersive exhibit titled I 
am better than you.
3
Echo Chamber
The web series demonstrates common TV 
tropes by merging reality and fiction.
4
Blind Pilot
The folk rock band puts on a heartfelt 
performance at Mr. Smalls Theater.
5
Comics
The concept of love is explored through 
various styles of cartooning.
6
Films
Try watching one of these nontraditional 
Valentines Day movies.
7
Lunar Gala
The annual fashion show presents student 
designers work and name-brand clothes.
8
The Fray
The band releases its third album, Scars & 
Stories.
10
Did You Know?
Five years ago, Tartan writers give readers love 
and relationship advice.
10
Puzzles
Challenge yourself with this weeks sudoku and 
hexadecimal sudoku.
13
Horoscopes
See what the stars have in store for your 
Valentines Day.
14
Calendar
Find out whats happening on campus and 
around Pittsburgh.
15

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 02.13.123
Frame show transforms space
I am better than you draws crowds, confuses patrons
Security guards, miscellaneous trinkets, and long 
lines were all a part of sophomore art majors Claire 
Gustavson and Keith Lafuentes opening night at 
The Frame gallery last Friday.
The show was titled I am better than you, and 
visitors could feel that spirit from the moment they 
entered the venue on Forbes Avenue. The press 
release at the front door raved about the two artists, 
and reminded those attending to bring gifts and 
offerings.
Gustavson and Lafuente transformed The Frame 
into a fully immersive exhibit. The show was broken 
into four different sections  Gustavsons altar, 
Lafuentes altar, a gift shop, and a special room that 
patrons could only enter one at a time. Fake security 
guards stood at the entrance to each section, 
dressed in suits, glasses, and serious attitudes. 
Certain people were denied access to the mysterious 
performance section for no apparent reason.
The two altars were separated and were very 
different from each other, including different music, 
lighting, and general vibes. Gustavsons altar was 
covered in candles and letters, and the room  
which was sectioned off by dark curtains  was full 
of rugs, prayer cards, and shoes.
Patrons entering the room that held Lafuentes 
altar were warned by a security guard to keep their 
distance from the altar, but the room was open so 
patrons could walk through freely. The altar was 
adorned with trophies, photos of Lafuente, pins, and 
a large chain. In the middle of the room were a small 
rug and piece of wood.
After viewing the altars, patrons waited in line to 
gain access to the mysterious performance section of 
the exhibit. Entering one at a time, patrons walked 
to the back room and found the two artists engaged 
in a dialogue about colors, gifts, and offerings while a 
projector shot images onto them in the dark.
At times it was hard to tell whether the artists 
were in character or not, and it was difficult to gain 
meaning from the dialogue. The first line I heard 
upon entering the small room was, Once you go 
black, you never go back, right? The dialogue 
between the two was meant to get laughs and be a 
unique memory for those who were lucky enough to 
get past security and make it inside.
The line to enter this part of the exhibit was long, 
and as the night progressed, rumblings were heard 
from the crowd about whether the wait would be 
worth it. A similar frustration for those in attendance 
was how hard it was to hear what Lafuente and 
Gustavson were saying in the small room over all the 
people talking just outside.
The gift shop included plenty of trinkets related to 
the exhibition. A personal favorite was a framed 
essay of Gustavsons from her first-year Globalization 
Through History class. There were also American 
flags with Lafuentes face glued to them, temporary 
tattoo hearts with Gustavsons face attached, and 
other random objects to remind patrons that the 
artists are better than you.
Those who attended the exhibit had mixed 
reactions. While the exhibit was an interesting 
experience, junior industrial design major Maureen 
Griswold said, I think if you didnt know [the artists] 
and you went to it, it would be a little confusing. But 
once you met them, youd be like, Oh okay, its a 
parody. 
Despite the wait and the uneasy feel the security 
guards gave patrons, the show was well executed 
and generally enjoyable for those who came out. 
Lafuente and Gustavson successfully converted 
The Frame into a more experience-based exhibition 
space, and while some frustration about being 
turned away after waiting in line to enter the back 
room was obvious, it was all in an effort to maintain 
the theme of the show that the two wanted to 
present.
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Im getting tired of all 
these dumb pictures 
and memes people keep 
posting on Facebook. 
Theyre not funny, and 
they just clog up my news 
feed so I cant see things 
I do care about, like... Ill 
think of something later. 
But still! How can I get rid 
of them?
Thanks,
Memes Indubitably Suck, 
Are Not Too Hilarious, 
Rather Ordinarily Provoke 
Exasperation
Dear MISANTHROPE,
Congratulations! Youve just 
realized that most people are 
dumb. Enjoy the false sense 
of superiority that comes 
with that realization. Go 
check your Facebook right 
now. I bet youve shared a 
few photos too. Of course, 
yours are funny, unlike all 
those other peoples, right? 
Oh, wait  no, theyre not. 
Your memes arent creative 
and no one is going to 
donate 15 cents to fight 
breast cancer because you 
shared that. You are part of 
the problem.
Of course, I might be wrong. 
You simply want Facebook 
to go back to its roots: A 
place for you to easily stalk 
members of the opposite 
sex. The easiest thing to do 
is to unsubscribe from their 
updates. Or just unfriend 
everyone who shares stuff. 
But youll probably be alone 
at that point.
Itll be just like Google+,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
My BFF is studying 
abroad this semester! 
OMG, like Im sooo 
depressed. I mean, now 
all we can do is Skype, 
IM, talk on Facebook, 
share stuff on Pinterest, 
and email each other. 
:( What can I do to get 
through this semester?
<3,
Feeling Really Isolated, 
Especially Needy 
During Lonely Evenings, 
Soulmate Scrammed
Dear FRIENDLESS,
The key here is to let as 
many people as possible 
know that youre sad and 
miss your friend. What is 
Facebook for if not saying 
how much you miss her and 
posting on her wall every five 
minutes? 
Okay, now that she and 
everyone else knows you 
miss her, get on with your 
life. Skype every once in a 
while if you need to, but let 
her enjoy her time abroad. 
You can take this time to 
make more than one friend. 
The hard part is when your 
friend comes back. She 
may return much more 
pretentious than when she 
left, saying things like, Well, 
when I was in London/
Prague/who cares.... At that 
point, just maintain the urge 
not to strangle her.
But no one will blame you 
if you do,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About Facebook and studying abroad
The room containing Keith Lafuentes altar featured 
numerous photos of the artist on the walls. 

---------------------------------------------------

4community
pillbox 02.13.12
As many tropers will tell you, the best way to make 
a story compelling is not by telling, but by showing. 
In 2011, Fast Eddie, the mysterious administrator 
of tvtropes.org, sent out a call to ?nd someone to 
demonstrate, categorize, and explain the tropes  or 
literary and rhetorical conventions  that are seen in 
television shows, movies, literature, and comics. With 
tropers auditioning from around the world, Carnegie 
Mellon creative writing alumnus Tom Pike came up 
with a unique direction and won the trope-of-the-week 
contest.
I imagined what [Fast Eddie] originally had in mind 
was a vlog, Pike said. You know, something more like a 
critic making funny points about a trope every week and 
being entertaining by just talking to the camera.
Instead, Pike decided to make the vlogs into episodes, in 
which he would demonstrate a trope through a story of 
someone trying to demonstrate a trope. It was an idea 
Id had ?oating around in my head, Pike said. I can 
make it a story about someone who is trying to do that 
and failing miserably.
Pike named his show Echo Chamber, which plays on the 
idea of repeated thoughts and actions. Pike and senior 
dramaturgy major Dana Shaw play the lead characters. 
Zachary Wallnau, another Carnegie Mellon alumnus, 
plays the laughable and not-all-there cameraman.
Explaining Echo Chamber can be a bit confusing, but 
heres a quick rundown: Pike created Echo Chamber, 
and his character within the video also created Echo 
Chamber in the ?ctional world where the character now 
makes videos about trying to make videos.
Like many recent television shows  think Community 
 it self-references things that happen inside the show 
and also in the personal lives of the actors. In the episode 
titled, Unresolved Sexual Tension, Pike warns Shaw 
that the moment we start blurring the line between 
?ction and reality, all of a sudden theres a whole 
bunch of tropes we cant do cause theres unintended 
implications. Were trying to make a web show about the 
tropes, not live them.
For the cast, this is a very true reality. On another level, 
we are having these meta-characters doing meta-things 
that re?ect our lives, Shaw said. There are things 
where we cant remember what happened ?rst in the 
show and ?rst in real life.
One example is The Terrible Interview montage, Pike 
said. It merges reality and ?ction. The plot of the second 
season involves an introduction of a rival show that 
attempts to steal one of the crew members away from 
Echo Chamber. It actually wound up happening a couple 
of times.
The show, which is ?lmed on the Carnegie Mellon 
campus, has received positive reviews from other 
tropers and has gained a signi?cant following. I believe 
that this [show] has allowed us to demonstrate that we 
know how to deliver what a client wants, Shaw said. 
Its gotten us the chance to be seen by people in the 
business.
In an interview with io9.com, Fast Eddie commented on 
the role tropes play in storytelling: To capture peoples 
attention, you want to bring them in using a familiar 
platform like these tropes. Once you get them there, 
thats where you have the opportunity to extend your 
viewpoint and offer up what youre trying to say. But ?rst 
you need to get their attention with something familiar, 
so theyre not struggling to ?gure out whats going on.
That is exactly what Echo Chamber is trying to do: 
explain the intricacies behind stories. You can watch the 
?rst season on YouTube under the name tvtropesorg. 
A second season of Echo Chamber is scheduled to 
premiere this April.
Christa Hester | Co-Publisher
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
 The Echo Chamber cast and crew film a scene at Ali Babas on Craig Street.
Echo Chamber merges reality and ?ction
Web series demonstrates common television tropes through self-references, personal details

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 02.13.125
Paperhouse
On Lovesong
In 1988, pop cultures unkempt poster child of doom and 
gloom and lead singer of British supergroup The Cure, 
Robert Smith, married his childhood sweetheart  Mary 
Poole. To honor the occasion, Smith wrote Lovesong, 
perhaps one of the worlds most covered songs.
Despite the fact that musicians such as Adele, 311, Jack 
Off Jill, Tori Amos, and Death Cab for a Cutie have covered 
this song, it is perhaps one of The Cures weakest. When 
compared to every other song on 1989s Disintegration, 
something isnt quite right.
It could be Smiths disregard for his signature threeminute introductions, or perhaps the lack of multifaceted 
lyrical interpretations, that make the song so boring in 
comparison to the rest of the album. In Lovesong, Smith 
croons however far away / I will always love you over 
and over again. What happened to the sad, dark, and 
depressing Smith that we all know and love?
Other songs on Disintegration follow The Cures formula 
of melodic happiness juxtaposed with oh-so-sad lyrics. 
On Lullaby, Smith is afraid of a spider, while on Pictures 
of You, Smith reminisces on a lost love. Despite this shift 
in formulation, Lovesong peaked at number two on 
the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart, and has been 
covered too many times to count.
I guess people love the straightforward presentation of 
the song: Its comforting and idealistic. I know Valentines 
Day is coming up, but please, whatever you do, do not 
play this song. If youre alone and looking for some good 
music, check out The Cures extensive back catalog.
Also, regardless of your plans for this fantastically 
commercial holiday that allows Hallmark to stay in 
business and creates an arti?cial demand for roses, you 
should call up your mom, and tell her that you love her.
Alex Price | Special to The Tartan
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
Yamantaka // Sonic Titan  YT // ST
Ilhan Ersahins Istanbul Sessions  Night Rider
El Rego  S/T
Gonjasu?  MU.ZZ.LE
Frank Macchia  Swamp Thang
Sealions  Everything You Wanted to Know About Sealions  
But Were Afraid To Ask
Charlie Haden and Hank Jones  Come Sunday
Cerebral Ballzy  Cerebral Ballzy
Of Montreal  Paralytic Stalks
Labopp  Out of Downing
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Blind Pilot puts on sincere show
Band plays heartfelt set with The Barr Brothers in church
Despite the fact that Blind Pilot has played in 
Pittsburgh multiple times in the past, last Friday 
marked the bands ?rst time playing at Mr. Smalls 
Theater in Millvale. An old church converted into 
a concert venue, it was the perfect space for the 
almost religious experience of a Blind Pilot concert.
The nights musical experience began with The 
Barr Brothers, an indie folk band from Montreal. 
While serenading the audience with a folksy 
repertoire featuring instruments not usually found in 
contemporary pop music  a harp, a pump organ, 
and a strand of polyester thread tied to a guitar 
string  they were very insular performers.
While it was clear that the band played passionately, 
they interacted little with the audience. The Barr 
Brothers style meshed well with the folk-inspired 
guitar pop that has gained Blind Pilot a fervent 
following and critical acclaim from NPR, but the 
audience did not seem that interested. Throughout 
the entire set people were chatting and drinking, 
eagerly awaiting Blind Pilot to take the stage.
There is only one term that could be used to 
accurately describe the group of people that had 
congregated in Mr. Smalls on Friday: sincere. This 
was clear from the moment Blind Pilot began playing 
the ?rst song of their set. While the audience did not 
suddenly go quiet, the conversations took a dramatic 
turn from idle talk to veneration of the band. 
Throughout the show, people were voicing their 
amazement at the bands musical talent and how 
much they were enjoying the emotionally charged 
set.
Like the openers, Blind Pilot did not interact much 
with the audience. After every couple of songs, lead 
singer and guitarist Israel Nebecker would talk to 
the audience, but it felt unnatural at times, as if hed 
much rather share his music than his words. It was 
clear that this performance was not meant for fairweather fans or for people who had never listened 
to the band before. For the band and the devoted 
fans in attendance, however, it was a magical 
experience.
The band closed their set with a heartfelt 
performance of We Are the Tide. As the group 
left the stage, the lights went out and the audience 
began the ritual of demanding an encore. Within 
minutes, the band returned to the stage to perform 
a three-song encore that was arguably the highlight 
of the show.
The ?rst song, Bitter End, began as a solo 
performance by Nebecker. Midway through the 
song, the rest of the band came on stage and joined 
in the performance. This was followed up by a joint 
effort with The Barr Brothers to cover American 
folk singer-songwriter John Prines Clay Pigeons. 
The performance was quiet, subtly powerful, and 
emphasized the folk roots that Blind Pilot had begun 
their career playing.
To end the night, Blind Pilot went completely 
unplugged except for a microphone. It took several 
minutes to quiet down the audience; however, the 
effort was rewarded with a beautiful rendition of 
Three Rounds and a Sound. While the effort could 
have been written off as cheesy, the sheer sincerity 
of the bands performance and the audiences 
enraptured silence was moving in a way that is not 
often seen in contemporary concerts.
Being in the audience and listening to that raw and 
completely honest performance was a moment of 
spiritual awakening. Even for those who werent 
fans of Blind Pilots music, it was dif?cult to walk 
away from Mr. Smalls and not feel satis?ed with at 
least that ?nal performance.
Matt Mastricova | Staffwriter
Courtesy of Jess Phoa
Blind Pilot lead singer Israel Nebecker closed 
the night with an unplugged rendition of Three 
Rounds and a Sound.

---------------------------------------------------

6valentines day
pillbox 02.13.12
Valentines Day isnt con?ned to Hallmark stores and 
?ower shops. Traditional ideas espoused by Valentines 
Day manifest themselves in the comics world as well. 
The work of Charles Schulz, Jordan Crane, and Chester 
Brown are all prime examples.
Its important to start with Schulz. The cartoonist 
responsible for Peanuts also created the epitome of 
Valentines Day comics in a little book called Love is 
Walking Hand in Hand. It was part of a series of Peanuts 
gift books that Hallmark released in the early 60s. In 
creating this book, Schulz, the accidental king of all that 
is marketable, made the perfect comic for Valentines 
Day. 
Love is Walking Hand in Hand contains illustrated 
aphorisms that express the vibrance of love in the 
mundane. The book displays a bold usage of orange, red, 
black, and pink color palettes. Given its strong colors and 
visual simplicity, you could argue that this book would 
probably not do very well in todays world of print comics 
and picture books.
One might think that the color combination would 
put the reader on edge, forcing him or her to struggle 
without much visual breathing room. Nevertheless, 
by carefully balancing the colors and letting the black 
ink rest quietly among the buzzing pinks and oranges, 
Schulz created a warm and coherent space for the reader 
to inhabit.
At its heart, Love is Walking Hand in Hand is a 
celebration of the little moments in which love 
reasserts its presence in our lives. The beautiful 
thing about this book is that Schulz preaches an allencompassing notion of love. Love is when someone 
takes a moment out of his or her day to do something 
nice for someone else, but is best summed up by 
Schulzs assertion, Love is the whole world. This seems 
like a perfect message to be sending on Valentines Day.
One issue that Schulzs book does not address is loss. 
Cranes comic, The Last Lonely Saturday, explores 
the trials and release of life after loss. Cranes story 
beautifully follows a husbands weekly ritual to pay 
respect to his wife. In no more than a few pages, Crane 
retells the husband and wifes entire history. 
From the comics meticulous book design, with its 
quaint size and the rounded, hand-lettered type in the 
?rst pages, readers can expect the story to be heartwarming. But Crane pulls at readers heartstrings 
with surprising grace. While the story is rooted in the 
traditional American clich of lovers reunited in the 
afterlife, the story is told deftly. Without spoiling too 
much, Cranes narration of the reunion of spirits is truly 
gripping. 
Similar to Love is Walking Hand in Hand, The Last 
Lonely Saturday is the kind of book that elicits an 
unparalleled visceral warmth, even after multiple 
readings.
For those who may dismiss the works of Schulz and 
Crane for their seemingly clich notions of love, there are 
other types of Valentines Day comics out there.
Browns Paying for It: A Comic-Strip Memoir About 
Being a John is perfect reading material for those 
disillusioned with romantic love and its inherent 
possessive monogamy. In this book, Brown sorts 
through all the legal, moral, and emotional arguments 
against prostitution in a sober and intense look from the 
perspectives of both prostitutes and their clients.
The book begins with a record of Browns growing 
disillusionment with the concept of romantic love. 
Despite the documentary impulse that drives the 
detailing of Browns experiences, his real concerns 
lie beyond mere observation. He uses his own 
experiences in a boldly direct style to make the case for 
decriminalizing prostitution.
In a conversation with another cartoonist depicted in 
the book, Brown reveals that he believes the romantic 
ideal is actually evil. At heart, it causes more misery 
than happiness and causes people to bind themselves 
to the wrong person for life simply to satisfy societal 
expectations.
From Browns vantage point, the moral pillars upon 
which Valentines Day stands are inherently destructive 
and not worth indulging in if a society is to be deemed 
rational and understanding.
With so many different perspectives on love, its hard 
to know which is the right one. Fortunately, there are 
plenty of cartoonists out there to aid in the exploration of 
the vast emotional territory of love, and theres no better 
time to explore it than on Valentines Day.
Juan Fernandez | Staffwriter
Love in the comics: A variety of perspectives
Cartoonists take different approaches to traditional notions of love, afterlife, and prostitution
Courtesy of Hallmark Cards
Charles Schulz, creator of Peanuts, uses simple 
illustrations to explore notions of love.
Chester Browns book traces his disillusionment with 
romantic love and his argument for decriminalizing 
prostitution.
Courtesy of Drawn and Quarterly 2011

---------------------------------------------------

valentines day
pillbox 02.13.127
Weve all seen movies like The Wedding Planner, How to 
Lose a Guy in 10 Days, and Forgetting Sarah Marshall  
stereotypical romantic comedies at their best (or worst, 
depending on your viewpoint). But this Valentines Day, 
if youre staying in with your loved one (or by yourself), 
consider watching one of these romantic ?lms.
An Affair to Remember
This 1957 classic is one of the greatest love tales of all 
time. Directed by Leo McCarey and starring Cary Grant 
and Deborah Kerr, An Affair to Remember currently holds 
the No. 5 spot on the American Film Institutes list of the 
top 100 greatest love stories in American cinema.
In this ?lm, playboy Nicky Ferrante (Grant) and night 
club singer Terry McKay (Kerr) have an affair while on a 
cruise from Europe to New York. They agree to meet at 
the top of the Empire State Building in six months, even 
though theyre both engaged to other people. After an 
unfortunate accident, Terry is unable to make the date, 
and the rest of the ?lm traces their unfolding future. 
Even if the story sounds uninteresting to you, you should 
consider watching it just to see Grant in his prime.
The Road
Directed by John Hillcoat and based on the 2006 novel 
by Cormac McCarthy, The Road follows the story of a 
man and his son trying to survive in a post-apocalyptic 
world. This isnt your typical Valentines Day ?lm, but 
its a heart-warming tale of a fathers love for his son in 
the face of cannibalism and the breakdown of human 
society. Its a depressing movie, but in the best way 
possible.
WALL-E
If youre looking for a lighter movie, WALL-E is the 
ultimate animated love story. Produced by Pixar, 
WALL-E is ?lled with allusions to Stanley Kubricks 2001: 
A Space Odyssey, but still captivates audiences of all 
ages. The ?lm focuses on the love between WALL-E, a 
trash-scavenging robot, and EVE, a high-tech superbot. 
The characters communicate primarily through body 
language and robotic sounds, and there is very little 
dialogue in the ?lm. 
Secretary
Starring Maggie Gyllenhaal and James Spader, 
Secretary follows the story of a young girl, Lee Holloway 
(Gyllenhaal) who has taken a job as a secretary after 
being released from a mental hospital. Holloways 
relationship with her boss, Mr. Grey (Spader), quickly 
turns into a sadomasochistic one, and the two fall in 
love. Things get complicated when Holloway gets 
engaged to a nerdy friend from high school, and the rest 
of the movie traces the ensuing drama.
So if youre looking for something more interesting than 
your average romantic comedy, try one of these classic 
or unconventional love stories. Whether youre looking 
for something classically romantic, heart-warming, or 
sexually intriguing, one of these movies is sure to pair 
nicely with your signi?cant other (or a pint of ice cream).
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Films about love to watch this Valentines Day
For a change this year, try watching one of these unusual movies with your signi?cant other
Jesse Kummer | Staffwriter
This coming-of-age movie is a romantic 
comedy/drama that takes us back 
to those not-at-all terrible years in 
high school. George Zinavoy (Freddie 
Highmore) and Sally Howe (Emma 
Roberts) are the protagonists. Zinavoy 
is a talented loner who comes to the 
realization that he will die someday. 
Charming, right? Howe is the offbeat, 
complicated (and gorgeous) girl who 
happens to take a liking to George, 
which leads to an awkward courtship. 
Problems arise and are resolved, as 
they so often are in these stories. Oh, 
and for originality: Its set in New York.
The Art of Getting By
Thursday, Feb. 16
10 12
Psycho (1960)
Saturday, Feb. 18
8 10 12
Another classic piece of American 
cinema, Alfred Hitchcocks Psycho was 
one of the ?rst great suspense/thriller 
?lms to be released. Anthony Perkins 
plays Norman Bates, a creepy motel 
owner who is devoted to his mother, 
in a manner of speaking. And when 
Marion Crane (Janet Leigh) makes a 
stop at the Bates Motel, she ?nds out 
just how far that devotion goes. The 
infamous shower scene took six days 
to ?lm, featured 77 different camera 
angles, and was originally supposed 
to be played without the famous 
screeching and horrifying musical 
soundtrack.
The Lion King
Friday, Feb. 17
8 10 12
One of the best movies ever made, The 
Lion King has everything: romance, 
violence, laughs, tears, and an epic 
storyline. The Lion King is a story that 
still resonates with audiences today. 
From James Earl Jones powerful voicework as Mufasa to the delightful tandem 
of Timon and Pumbaa singing Hakuna 
Matata, theres something for everyone 
in this ?lm, which follows a young lion 
cubs quest to regain his rightful throne. 
If you havent seen it, do yourself a favor 
and stop depriving yourself of one of the 
greatest tales ever told.
The Thing (1982)
Sunday, Feb. 19
10 12
Directed by master of horror John 
Carpenter, The Thing stars Kurt 
Russell and several other actors 
known primarily because of their roles 
in this ?lm. The movie takes place in 
the Antarctic, as a group of American 
researchers encounters a creature that 
is able to take the form of any organism 
it kills. The American crew is forced 
into a game of cat and mouse with the 
creature, and each other, since they are 
unable to tell who has been assimilated 
and who is still human. Fun Fact: This is 
John Carpenters personal favorite out 
of all of his ?lms.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 02.13.1298feature
pillbox 02.13.12
Lunar Gala 2012: Blur
Students present designs in annual fashion show
Left: Rachel Inman (fifth-year design major), Jessica 
Santana (senior chemical and biomedical engineering 
double major), and Hannah Douglas (first-year student 
in the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences) modeled pieces from Sarah Gormans 
collection, Aviary.
Right: Senior philosophy major Dionti Davis and 
first-year design major Jessica Uphoff wore American 
Apparel in one of the commercial showcases.
Bottom: Rachel Inman wore pieces from junior 
mechanical and biomedical engineering double major 
Amber Ohiokpehais collection Shone Pale Thro the 
Light.
by Rachel Cohen | Staffwriter[]
First-year student in the Dietrich College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences Camaree Barr wore a 
flowing dress from senior human-computer interaction 
and design double major Samia Ahmeds collection 
Found.
Electrically engineered clothing, politically charged 
fashion, and biologically inspired design: These seem 
unlikely enough on their own, let alone incorporated 
into the same student-run fashion show. But all of these 
elements came together on Saturday night for Lunar Gala 
2012: Blur, as student designers showcased a diverse 
array of talent and inspiration. The culmination of a full 
year of organizing and designing, Lunar Gala was a 
dazzling display of what a group of dedicated students 
is capable of putting together with a great deal of focus, 
innovation, and artistic savvy.
Behind the Scenes
A signi?cant amount of work goes into preparing for 
Lunar Gala each year. An intensive, year-long process of 
recruitment and advertising makes the event possible, 
said Alexander de Ronde, the galas director of public 
relations and a junior Bachelor of Humanities and Arts 
student in communication design and decision science.
There is really not any down moment for the Lunar Gala, 
de Ronde said. As second-time director of public relations 
for the gala, de Ronde oversees a signi?cant amount of 
work going into the show: designing posters, organizing 
the program, recruiting designers, and advertising for 
the event, particularly through Facebook and other social 
media. By the time this years Lunar Gala was over, 
the board and theme for next years show was already 
decided. Lunar Gala is, in many ways, a continuous 
thing, de Ronde said.
Designers also have a daunting workload in preparing for 
the show. Blood, sweat, and tears is how designer Rain 
Chan-Kalin, a fourth-year design and linguistics double 
major, described it. According to Chan-Kalin, designers 
work started in September, when they submitted their 
portfolios, and continued with sewing, ?tting, and 
choosing models for each out?t. Somehow it all comes 
together  usually in the last week, she joked.
It was a lot, said designer Ibrahim Garcia-Bengochea, 
a fourth-year architecture student, commenting on 
the workload for the gala. Over winter break, GarciaBengochea redesigned his entire line. On top of the stress 
from the past few months, nerves were also running high 
right before the gala. Something always goes wrong, 
Garcia-Bengochea said, remembering a ?asco from last 
year when he lost a pair of pants. Despite the strain, 
however, Garcia-Bengochea was really pumped for the 
gala and its exciting air of non-stop heart-beating.
Optimism was a common sentiment between designers  
and organizers on the eve of the gala. Despite some 
concerns about this years more complicated stage setup, 
co-producer Ian Anthony Coleman, a senior international 
relations and politics major with a minor in French, was 
con?dent in his models abilities. People know how to 
just keep going, he said.
As co-producer, Coleman also had a heap of tasks leading 
up to the event, from working with Student Activities, AB 
Tech, and cmuTV to looking over designer applications 
to organizing and running rehearsals. Despite being 
kind of tired, Coleman looked forward to the event 
with enthusiasm. In particular, he was excited to see the 
audiences reactions to the new elements in this years 
show. The moment I know I succeeded is when the line 
starts forming, he said. The energy in the room is just 
unparalleled.
Lunar Gala 2012: Blur
The energy was indeed high before the show began on 
Saturday night, as viewers waited in a line that wound all 
around the ?rst ?oor of the University Center. The night 
got off to somewhat of a hectic start, with organizers 
trying to clear space for people to walk through the 
University Center and viewers still eagerly standing in 
line well after the doors opened at 7:30 p.m.
Once the audience was seated and the program began, 
however, the months of preparation became apparent. 
With its impressive runway and sophisticated lighting, 
the show gave off an air of professionalism. Considering 
the sheer volume of elements that had to come together, 
the show ran with very few hitches.
Student designers showcased their talents in diverse 
collections inspired by everything from photography 
to biology to Lady Gaga. Several of the clothing lines 
featured organic looks and muted color palettes. 
Verdure, a collection by Andreea and Silvia Manolache, 
a senior Bachelor of Science and Arts student and a 
senior business administration and math double major, 
respectively, started the program. The collection offered 
a series of graceful, soft, and effortless looks that sought 
to symbolize the grandeur of nature, according to its 
description on the program.
Similarly, junior communication design major Sarah 
Gormans Aviary incorporated natural elements in her 
?rst few looks with a more subdued palette and looser 
silhouettes, though moving toward more modern, ?tted, 
colorful pieces as the collection progressed. And though 
not explicitly inspired by nature, Chan-Kalins Oblique 
had similarly organic elements, with simple shapes and 
a somewhat earthy color palette of reds, yellows, browns, 
and whites.
Beyond the mere inspiration for clothing, other collections 
pondered the nature of clothing itself. In her line 
Transparent, Alina Narvaez, a sophomore in the Dietrich 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences, explored 
the restrictions of womens clothing and the changing 
forms these restrictions have taken throughout history. 
Moving from vintage to modern styles, Narvaez asked the 
audience in the written program, Is the modern woman 
liberated? Or is she objecti?ed? 
Likewise, Colleen Clifford, a ?rst-year architecture 
student, examined different kinds of curvature in her 
collection Raw Curves, while Anya Weitzman, a senior 
Bachelor of Humanities and Arts student, showcased 
female-empowering pieces in PRO.
Senior Bachelor of Computer Science and Art student 
Alex Wolfes collection Kitsune directly challenged 
the way we wear clothes by presenting a whole new 
dimension to clothing: Sculptural extensions grew out of 
the pieces or served as eccentric headpieces. In essence, 
Wolfe sent wearable art down the runway. Fashion is 
considered in many ways a form of art, and Wolfe took 
this de?nition to a more literal interpretation of what 
people wear and how they wear it.
Two particularly interesting collections drew inspiration 
from science and engineering, in true Carnegie Mellon 
fashion. In Lux by Alanna Fusaro, a sophomore 
industrial design major, and John Brieger, a sophomore 
computer science major, the clothing was adorned 
with LEDs that set off blinking patterns. Junior design 
major Chris Ioffredas Bio?ux, on the other hand, took 
inspiration from and incorporated visual elements from 
biology  such as webs and scales  into the clothing.
Scattered throughout the program were performances 
by several student dance groups. Between collections, 
Dancers Symposium, Soulstylz, and Jungle Royalty took 
the stage with ?erce choreography, earning loud cheers 
from the audience. In this way, the organizers of the event 
tipped their hats to other art forms being explored on 
campus and added some variety to the program.
This year, many commercial boutiques also showcased 
their work, adding a new element to the show. Designer 
Days Boutique, H&M, Victorias Secret Pink and Calvin 
Klein, Urban Out?tters, Jupe and Panello, and American 
Apparel, among others, all presented large collections. 
Many of these boutiques offered discounts to students 
with Lunar Gala tickets to further promote their lines.
As the program closed with a series of thank-yous from 
the organizers and wild cheers from the audience, 
student reactions were very positive. It was really good, 
said senior biology major Sherry He. Senior biology and 
viola performance double major Megan Peaco agreed. 
Both were there to support their friends who had 
designed collections, and each began excitedly listing 
their favorites, generally very impressed with the show 
and only stipulating that they wished there had been 
more lighting in the aisles.
But, according to de Ronde, this enthusiastic reception 
should come as no surprise. After all, as de Ronde said, 
People keep coming back.
Editors note: Alina Narvaez is a junior staffwriter for The 
Tartan.
Jennifer Coloma | StaffJennifer Coloma | Staff
Jennifer Coloma | Staff
Jennifer Coloma | Staff

---------------------------------------------------

10music
pillbox 02.13.12
In a time where the Top 40 is over?owing with 
AutoTune and songs made for clubs, The Fray 
reminds us that success can come in the form of a 
less electronic instrument. The piano-driven rock 
band from Denver gained worldwide fame thanks to 
its emotional single How to Save a Life, and has 
remained relatively popular since. This past week, 
The Fray released its third album, Scars & Stories, 
which doesnt stray far from its two previous studio 
albums.
The starting track, Heartbeat, is also the bands 
?rst single from the new album. Starting as a 
fast-paced drum beat topped with narrative lyrics, 
the song continues into a slower chorus where 
the bands lead singer-songwriter Isaac Slade hits 
some higher notes and gives some heartfelt advice, 
singing, If you can love somebody, love them all the 
same.
The Fighter is probably the most commercial of 
the songs, and is the closest The Fray comes to 
a mainstream hit on this album. Documenting a 
?ghter and his internal struggles about his lover 
and violence in the world, this track wraps an 
unfortunate story into a heartfelt, feel-good song.
The Wind is a soft song, but the ethereal 
background music that plays throughout takes the 
song to a different level. And then theres Munich, 
which was inspired not by the German city, but 
instead by a particle collider in Switzerland.
In an interview with The Huf?ngton Post, Slade 
explained his fascination with the Swiss experiment: 
Theyre looking for the God Particle  basically, the 
particle that holds it all together. That song is really 
just about the mystery of why were all here and 
whats holding it all together, you know? Its not 
unlike The Fray to talk about metaphysics and other 
things besides sex and alcohol, so this broad scope 
feels natural coming from Slade.
The other tracks dont seem to stand out as anything 
exciting. Theyre good, but they arent memorable. 
The lyrics, as per usual, are insightful and wellcrafted, but the music is lacking compared to the 
groups previous hits like How to Save a Life and 
You Found Me.
The closing tracks on the bands albums seem to go 
one of two ways: They either end with an energetic, 
music-heavy anthem that summates all the intensity 
of the preceding songs, or they let you down gently 
and bring the sound session to a ?nite close. The 
closing track on Scars & Stories, Be Still, falls in the 
latter category. With only Slades vocals partnering 
with a ghostly piano, he repeats the lyrics with a 
heartfelt honesty.
As a whole, this is not the album that you put in 
your car when youre going 70 miles per hour with 
the windows down. Instead, its more appropriate 
as background music if youre doing some work 
or sitting at a Starbucks. It has its moments of 
radio-friendliness, but it never fully commits to that 
identity. Stand-out tracks include The Fighter, 
The Wind, and Be Still.
Nick Guesto | Staffwriter
The Fray releases third album
Scars & Stories continues trend of thoughtful albums
Scars & Stories features a few exciting tracks, but 
mostly fails to deliver memorable, radio-friendly 
music. 
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Feb. 8, 1912
An advertisement for junior prom urges 
students to remember to buy tickets 
for the event. An additional column of 
Junior Prom, Donts follows. The list 
includes avoiding wearing flannel shirts, 
tan shoes, and baseball mustaches. 
Other warnings against taboo behavior 
include the dance moves grizzly bear 
and turkey trot.
50years ago
Feb. 21, 1962
A blood drive run by the Council 
of Fraternity Presidents has a poor 
turnout. The event managed to only 
accumulate 35 units of blood. The 
Tartan sees this as an embarrassment 
based on the prediction of 150 pints 
from the drive. Students are urged to 
donate at the blood bank just down 
the street on Fifth Avenue.
25years ago
Feb. 10, 1987
From a Yuppie Leftist comes a 
letter to the editor about how Playboy 
and Penthouse magazines are not 
pornographic, nor do they need 
banning. The author reminds readers 
that these magazines contain plenty 
of articles, interviews, and reviews, 
and says that not everyone uses these 
magazines inappropriately.
10years ago
Feb. 11, 2002
The mens basketball team pulled out 
an unexpected win against Brandeis 
University in overtime. The game 
started out with Brandeis domination, 
and a nearly empty Skibo Gymnasium. 
But as the game continued, the crowd 
grew and the team managed to come 
together for a victory of 7672.
5years ago
Feb. 12, 2007
Tartan writers have a lot to say about 
how to spend Valentines Day this year. 
From advice on how to act on a first 
date to the top ten things women and 
men never knew about each other, 
this issue is full of rock solid advice on 
how to spend this day of love. A final 
thought about what not to do on the 
special day: Hook up with an ex.
1year ago
Feb. 7, 2011
A Forum article explores recent 
government funding cuts to Planned 
Parenthood. The article reminds 
readers that Planned Parenthood 
does not use government funding for 
abortions, but rather for providing birth 
control, counseling, STD testing, and a 
variety of other services.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 02.13.1211
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.com
PhD Comics by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 02.13.12
Sexy-saurus by Reza Farazmandpoorlydrawnlines@gmail.com
Online at www.poorlydrawnlines.com
Cupid by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 02.13.1213
Solutions from Feb. 6, 2012
CrosswordVery Hard DifficultyMedium Difficulty
Hexadecimal Sudoku Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/
Hexadecimal Sudokus courtesy of 
www.krazydad.com/hexsudoku/
Using traditional Sudoku rules, fill in the 16 x 16 grid with 
16 hexadecimal digits. Each row, column, and 4 x 4 block 
contains the digits 0 to 9 and the letters A to F.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 02.13.12
 1. From the U.S.
2. Farm structure
3. Black cuckoos
4. Aspect
5. Capp and Capone
6. Brief instant
7. New Mexico art colony
8. Long Island town
9. Baggage porter
10. Venerated
11. Blunted blade
12. Discounted by
13. Dr. of rap
21. Ingrids Casablanca role
23. Swiss painter Paul
25. Metrical foot
26. Pack leader
28. Future docs exam
29. Paddled
30. Stomach woe
31. Borders on
33. Angry
34. Wearies
37. Black key
39. Greek letters
41. Unequal
43. Celebrity
46. Belgian river
48. Antitoxins
51. Sister of Venus
53. Bite gently
55. Shrub of the cashew family
57. Mariners can sail on seven of these
58. Canvas shelter used on camping trips
59. Diving position
61. Lout
62. Golf club which can be numbered 1 to 9
63. Chow
64. Half a fly
66. Court call
67. Conductor de Waart
1. PDQ
5. Moving
10. Gripped
14. Ho Chi ____
15. Buy alternative
16. Copycat
17. East of Eden director Kazan
18. Reprimand
19. ____ majeste
20. Martinis partner
22. Reaping-hooks
24. Bones found in the hip
27. ____ Alto
28. Greek dish
32. Lapwing
35. Silent prez
36. Low life?
38. Causing goose bumps
40. Sacramentos ____ Arena
42. Headland
44. Move suddenly
45. Itty-bitty
47. Book of maps
49. Beverage commonly drunk in 
England
50. Apparel
52. Monotony
54. Goes out with
56. Actress Garr
57. Stapes
60. Steal This Book author 
Hoffman
64. Ticked (off)
65. Author Zola
68. Aboriginal rite site
69. All there
70. Unadorned
71. Spoils
72. Cornerstone abbr.
73. Vinegary prefix
74. Sea eagles
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Romantic movies and silly love songs are all well and good, 
but love is a complicated thing. Keep on your toes, keep 
your heart and mind open, and enjoy the ride.
taurus
april 20may 20
Do something nice, like surprise a friend with a cute little 
Valentines Day card. Good friends are hard to find. When 
you find one, treat that person right so he or she sticks 
around.
gemini
may 21june 21
Remember on Wednesday that its not the walk of shame, 
but rather the stride of pride.
cancer
june 22july 22
The economy is still in bad shape, so you might want to 
hold off going all out for Valentines Day. Be economical 
and suggest that you and your significant other take a short 
break. Make sure to win him or her back before March.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Leos in relationships: Do something really romantic for 
the one you love. Your partner deserves it for putting up 
with you. Leos not in relationships: The good thing about 
Valentines Day is that candy will be half off on Wednesday.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Dont let your friends give up their dates just because they 
are short on cash. Youre a big spender and a great friend, 
so convince your friend to share his or her significant other 
with you for the day.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
You may be flying the Singles Awareness Day banner high 
and with lots of pride, but this week, around lunchtime, you 
will meet an amazing person who will change your life. 
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Your secret admirer wants you to get a clue and notice that 
someone likes you. For heavens sake, what do people 
have to do in order for you to take a hint?
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Youre not jealous of everyone who will be partaking in 
Tuesdays festivities. Youre just more mature and know that 
Tuesday is just another day. Scoff at those silly lovebirds, 
and be happy that you know what love really is.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
The outcome of your Valentines Day is still up in the air, 
but no matter if it is the best or worst day of the year, just 
remember that Stevie Wonder makes everything better.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Playwright William Shakespeare said it best when he wrote, 
If love be rough with you, be rough with love; prick love for 
pricking, and you beat love down.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Screw Cupid and just enjoy this week. Dont let anything, 
especially an idea or a holiday, hold you back.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 02.13.1215
MONDAY2.13.12
Allen Stone. Stage AE. 7 p.m.
Allen Stone is a singer-songwriter from Chewelah, Wash., 
who incorporates classic soul, pop hooks, and R&B beats 
into his music. His self-titled, self-released sophomore 
album, which came out last October, peaked at the No. 2 
spot on the R&B/Soul charts on iTunes.
TUESDAY2.14.12
Carnegie Mellon School of Architecture Lecture 
Series Presents: Patrick Schumacher. Carnegie 
Library Lecture Hall. 6 p.m.
Patrick Schumacher, partner at Zaha Hadid Architects 
and founding director of the Architectural Association 
Design Research Laboratory, will deliver a lecture titled 
Parametric Order  21st Century Architectural Order. 
Schumacher has been a tenured professor at the Institute 
for Experimental Architecture, Innsbruck University, since 
2004. Currently he is a guest professor at the University 
of Applied Arts in Vienna, Austria.
WEDNESDAY2.15.12
New Media/News Media: How Technology is 
Changing the Aesthetics of the News. Baker Hall A53. 
4:45 p.m.
This panel discussion, co-led by Carnegie Mellon English 
professor Kathy Newman and animation professor James 
Duesing, will discuss the ways in which new media 
outlets are changing the way people receive their news. 
The discussion will also go into the ways that the news 
industry has changed as a result of this new media.
THURSDAY2.16.12
Qu Qu? brillobox. 10 p.m. 21+
A new monthly dance party featuring tropical bass music, 
Qu Qu? features DJs Cucitroa and James Gyre.
FRIDAY2.17.12
Heather Kropf. Club Cafe. 7 p.m. 21+
Pittsburgh singer-songwriter Heather Kropf combines 
elements of jazz, folk, and pop in her music; she has 
released three albums and is currently working on her 
fourth. The Pittsburgh Tribune-Review said, Kropfs 
work has a quiet elegance, both musically and lyrically. 
Recent Pittsburgh transplant Judith Avers, a folk singersongwriter, will open the performance.
SATURDAY2.18.12
Author Mark Oshiro. Elijays Books. 3 p.m.
Mark Oshiro is a blogger who posts his reactions, 
chapter by chapter, to books and television shows as he 
experiences them for the ?rst time. At this reading, he will 
share from his latest book, Mark Reads Harry Potter and 
the Sorcerers Stone. His appearance will be presented 
by Literazzi, a poetry and performance art troupe 
dedicated to raising awareness and funds for local literacy 
programs and supporting independent artists.
SUNDAY2.19.12
Dia Frampton with Andrew Allen and Crossing 
Boundaries. Mr. Smalls Theatre. 8 p.m.
Dia Frampton, half of the musical duo Meg and Dia, was 
a ?nalist on the ?rst season of NBCs The Voice. The 
opening acts for her performance are Andrew Allen, a 
Canadian singer-songwriter, and Crossing Boundaries, a 
Pittsburgh-based pop rock band.
ONGOING
Cathy Wilkes. Carnegie Museum of Art. Through Feb. 
26.
The museum features paintings and sculptural 
installations by Cathy Wilkes that focus on her personal 
experiences.
Intimate Science. Miller Gallery. Through March 4.
The exhibition showcases interdisciplinary artists who 
incorporate science and technology into their creative 
processes, as well as scientists who use their technology 
and resources to create art.
Compiled by Anna Walsh | Staffwriter
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
Fox Chapel home for sale 4 bedrooms, 4 
baths; cathedral ceilings; 2 ?replaces; 2 car 
garage. Mother-in-law suite with separate 
entrance; in-ground pool; 1-1/2 acres. 
Easy access to Oakland, Squirrel Hill, and 
Pittsburgh. $550,000 for sale by owner - 
412/370-0084.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 02.13.12
Jennifer Coloma | Staff
Last Thursday, AB Underground sponsored performances by Irish singer-songwriter Mark 
Dignam, folk musician Morgan Erina (left), and senior philosophy major Matthew Fiorillo 
(right). Erina is part of the Pittsburgh acoustic folk band Broken Fences, but she performed 
a solo set last week. 
underground.

---------------------------------------------------

INSIDE:
Whats new for 201213? [C3]
Room selection explained [C4]
Your guide to 2012 housing options [C613]
HOUSING GUIDE 2012

---------------------------------------------------

HOUSING GUIDE 2012
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Whats new?
Updates for this years room selection process, as well as a calendar of important dates and 
deadlines to remember as you make your housing choices.3
Room selection explained
An overview of all you need to know about room selection 2012, including descriptions of each 
phase of the room draw process.4
Housing guide 2012
A comprehensive listing of each housing option available through Carnegie Mellons room 
draw, including building overviews, location information, available amenities, and more.613
Housing options map
This years housing map, showing all housing options on campus, as well as those off campus 
in Oakland and Shadyside.16
Nearby neighborhoods
Pittsburgh neighborhood reviews for housing, dining, shopping, and ease of transportation for 
those contemplating moving off campus.1415

---------------------------------------------------

02.13.12Housing Guide
Housing Calendar
February:
Monday, Feb. 13  Room retention begins (online)
Thursday, Feb. 16  Information Table. 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., Wean Commons, 
University Center
Monday, Feb. 20  Information Table. 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., Wean Commons, 
University Center
Wednesday, Feb. 22  Information Table. 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., Wean Commons, 
University Center
Tuesday, Feb. 28  Information Table. 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., Wean Commons, 
University Center
March:
Friday, March 2  Henderson Wellness House applications due by 5 p.m.
Thursday, March 8  Information Table. 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., Wean Commons, 
University Center
Friday, March 9  Room retention ends
Friday, March 9  Block housing applications due
Monday, March 19  Pull-ins for residents who retained (Fairfax, Webster, 
Shirley, Roselawn, Woodlawn, Doherty, Margaret Morrison)
Tuesday, March 20  Pull-ins for residents who retained (Resnik and  
West Wing)
Tuesday, March 20  Displaced selection by invitation only
Wednesday, March 21  Pull-ins for residents who retained (Morewood, 
McGill, Welch)
Wednesday, March 21  Block housing lists made available
Thursday, March 22  Block housing selection, Day 1 (Housing Office)
Friday, March 23  Block housing selection, Day 2 (Housing Office)
Saturday, March 24  Deadline for block housing participants to sign HLAs
Sunday, March 25  Elect to participate in general room selection begins 
(online)
Thursday, March 29  Elect to participate ends at 5 p.m.
Friday, March 30  Room selection numbers and schedule announced
April:
Monday, April 2  General room selection, Day 1 (West Wing Recreation 
Room)
Tuesday, April 3  Open assignments reception (West Wing Recreation Room)
Wednesday, April 4  General room selection, Day 2 (West Wing Recreation 
Room)
Friday, April 6  Open cancellation period begins (online)
Friday, April 27  Cancellation deadline for full refund of reservation fee
Saturday, April 28  Open cancellation period continues. No refund of 
reservation fee
May:
Friday, May 4  Open cancellation period ends
A complete calendar of room selection 201213 events and deadlines can be 
found at www.cmu.edu/housing/roomselection/timeline/index.html.
Key room selection 2012 dates and deadlines
Whats New? 
Potential changes for the 201213 academic year
Suite retention
Housing and Dining Services is currently reviewing the retention policy as it applies 
to Resnik and West Wing suites. The results of this review may affect the way suites in 
these locations are retained and filled for room selection 2013.
Woodlawn Apartments
Due to planned renovations, Woodlawn Apartments may be unavailable for residents 
during room selection, as early as room selection 2013.
Room selection process change
Housing and Dining Services will continue to develop and implement new software and 
technology processes associated with room selection. Changes to room selection 2013 
will be announced in advance.
Anticipated change in the housing proration policy
The cancellation and refund policy is currently being reviewed by Housing and Dining 
Services. Some changes are being made beginning in the 201213 school year to 
the system that processes refunds when students leave during the semester. More 
information will be available in upcoming months as final decisions are made.
Private and semi-private bathroom cleaning
Students residing in suites or rooms that do not share a community bathroom, and 
instead have a private or semi-private bathroom, may become responsible for cleaning 
their own bathrooms during the 201213 school year. If this change is finalized, 
residents assigned to these locations will be notified. Bathrooms will still be cleaned by 
Housing and Dining staff during winter break.
Individual Phone Lines
Housing and Dining will continue to remove individual phone lines from student 
rooms in response to feedback that the majority of students do not see a need for the 
land lines. Instead, common phone lines in each building, to be used for emergency 
purposes, will be available. Buildings that have been (or soon will be) affected by these 
changes include Boss House, Doherty Apartments, Donner House, Hamerschlag House, 
Morewood Gardens, Morewood E-Tower, Mudge House (except for B and C tower 
basement rooms), Scobell House, Shirley Apartments, Stever House, Resnik House, 
West Wing, and the Residence on Fifth.
3

---------------------------------------------------

Room selection has several possible options: room retention, room with a retainer (also 
known as pull-in), general room selection, RA/CA housing, special-interest housing, 
block housing, gender neutral housing, and open assignments.
The majority of students will participate in one of the three most common room 
selection choices: room retention, room with a retainer, and general room selection. 
However, a wide variety of housing options is available to all students. Room selection 
occurs during the next five weeks of classes, so all students returning next year should 
begin thinking about their housing plans for the 201213 school year.
Room retention
Room retention, the first phase, is for students planning to retain their current room for 
the next school year. The room retention phase begins today, Feb. 13, and ends March 
9 at 5 p.m. Although there are some exceptions, room retention is available to most 
upper-class students not in special-interest housing, a first-year dormitory, or an RA/CA 
room. First-year students are not eligible to retain their rooms, regardless of their room 
location. Students considering room retention should remember that once they retain, 
they cannot change their housing assignment or cancel until the open cancellation 
period begins on April 6.
Room with a retainer
Any student retaining his or her room during the first phase is required to fill any 
remaining vacancies in the room, suite, or apartment with pull-ins. A student 
eligible to be pulled in to a room already designated to a retainer must be eligible to 
participate in room selection, and must not have already selected an assignment for the 
201213 school year.
General room selection
General room selection is the final phase of room selection, during which eligible 
residents who havent participated in the preceding phases choose a room from the 
spaces remaining. Students planning to participate in general room selection must 
elect to participate in the general room selection before March 29 at 5 p.m. by signing 
a housing license agreement. They are then eligible to receive a random room selection 
number.
RA/CA housing
RA/CA housing is only available for those students holding an RA or CA position during 
the 201213 school year. These students will not be eligible to participate in room 
selection, and will instead be assigned a room through the application and selection 
process carried out by the Office of Student Development.
Special-interest housing
Special-interest housing allows groups of students to apply for group housing centered 
around a certain interest or theme. Special-interest housing groups should consider 
the ways in which they plan to positively impact the larger residential community, 
then complete the special-interest housing application process. Housing locations with 
special-interest housing options available for the 201213 academic year are Margaret 
Morrison Apartments, Resnik House (480 and 580 suites), Morewood Gardens (two 
spaces available), and Mudge House (A-100).
Block housing
The block housing phase of room selection allows groups of students to select a block 
of apartments near each other in one of the apartment-style dormitories (Fairfax, 
Webster, Shady Oak, or Shirley Apartments). Students electing to apply for block 
housing must identify a group representative who will be responsible attending the 
block housing selection, scheduled for Thursday, March 22, and Friday, March 23.
Gender-neutral housing
Gender-neutral housing is a program in the Oakland Community Apartments that 
permits upper class male and female residents to reside in the same room. Housing 
locations with gender-neutral housing available to students during the 201213 
academic year include Fairfax, Webster, Shady Oak, Shirley, and Neville Apartments.
Open assignments
Due to fluctuating availability in room assignments, some students are given an 
open assignment. This means that while they are guaranteed a room for the 201213 
academic year, they will not immediately know where that room will be located, or 
what style of room they will be assigned. After receiving an open assignment, students 
wait until they receive an offer of a room for the upcoming year. After receiving their 
offer, they can decline the offer and cancel their housing agreement within a three-day 
window without any penalty, even if the offer was made after the open cancellation 
period ends.
For more details about the room selection process, visit www.cmu.edu/housing/
roomselection.
02.14.11Housing Guide402.13.12Housing Guide4
Room selection phases explained
Terms and technicalities to guide you through the process

---------------------------------------------------

02.13.12Housing Guide5
Room style by housing location
Prime Single
Prime Double
Prime Triple
Suite Single
Suite Double
Efficiency 
Apartments  
(2 occupants)
1-Bedroom 
Apartments
(2 occupants)
1-Bedroom 
Apartments
(3 occupants)
2-Bedroom 
Apartments
(3 occupants)
2-Bedroom 
Apartments
(4 occupants)
2-Bedroom 
Suites 
(3 occupants)
3-Bedroom 
Suites  
(3 occupants)
House 
(5 occupants)
Apartment 
(7 occupants)
Morewood 
Gardens999
Henderson 
House99
McGill House99
Welch House99
Resnik House999
West Wing999
Doherty 
Apartments99
Fairfax 
Apartments999
Webster Hall999
Woodlawn 
Apartments99
Shady Oak 
Apartments9999
Margaret 
Morrison9
Roselawn 
Terrace9
Woodlawn 
Apartments99
Returning students have a variety of housing options to choose from when participating in room selection 2012.
Residence halls offer rooms with either a community or semi-private bathroom for upperclassmen. These buildings include Morewood Gardens, Henderson House, Resnik House, 
West Wing, Welch House, and McGill House.
Apartment buildings offer living arrangements in a variety of styles: efficiency, one-bedroom, two-bedroom, or suite. They are separated into two groups based on location. 
On-campus apartment buildings include Doherty Apartments, Margaret Morrison Apartments, Roselawn Terrace, and Woodlawn Apartments. Oakland apartment buildings include 
Fairfax Apartments, Neville Apartments, Shady Oak Apartments, Shirley Apartments, and Webster Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

Housing Guide602.13.12
FAST FACTS:
Location: On Margaret Morrison Street, across from McGill House
Styles of housing: Prime singles and prime doubles
Size: 71 residents
Building retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One on the first floor
Lounges: One per floor, and one main lounge on the first floor with a study 
lounge
Other amenities: The building has laundry facilities in the basement, adjacent to 
the television lounge.
HOUSING GUIDEBOSS HOUSE
FAST FACTS:
Location: On Margaret Morrison Street, across from Boss and McGill Houses
Styles of housing: Standard singles, standard doubles, and standard triples in 
co-ed wings that each share a bathroom
Size: 259 residents
Building retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One in the basement
Lounges: TV lounge, study lounge, and recreation area
Other amenities: Lounges include practice rooms and pool tables; laundry 
facilities include both washers and dryers.
DONNER HOUSE
FAST FACTS:
Location: On the corner of Forbes and Morewood avenues, in front of 
Morewood Gardens
Styles of housing: Standard singles, standard doubles, and prime triples
Size: 208 residents
Building retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One adjacent to recreation areas
Lounges: Each of the seven floors has its own lounge
Other amenities: The building has lounges and laundry facilities on each floor.  
E Tower also contains Housing and Dining Services and Health Services.
MOREWOOD E TOWER
FIRST-YEAR HOUSING
FAST FACTS:
Location: On Margaret Morrison Street, behind Boss and McGill Houses
Styles of housing: Standard singles, standard doubles, and prime singles
Size: 165 residents (all male)
Building retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One adjacent to recreation areas
Lounges: Recreation room
Other amenities: The building has a spacious TV and recreation lounge; laundry 
facilities include both washers and dryers.
HAMERSCHLAG HOUSE

---------------------------------------------------

Housing Guide702.13.12
FAST FACTS:
Location: 4700 Fifth Ave.
Styles of housing: Prime doubles and prime triples
Size: 93 residents
Building retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One on the first floor
Lounges: Several lounges, including a piano lounge, exercise room, and club 
room
Other amenities: The Residence on Fifth has year-round heating and
air-conditioning. Most students are currently living in triple rooms.
FAST FACTS:
Location: On Margaret Morrison Street, in front of Welch and Henderson 
houses
Styles of housing: Standard singles, standard doubles, and prime singles
Size: 86 residents (all male)
Building retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One, on A level
Lounges: One on each floor, plus a large lounge on A level
Other amenities: Scobell House has laundry facilities on the ground floor. 
SCOBELL HOUSE
FAST FACTS:
Location: On Morewood Avenue, adjacent to Mudge House
Styles of housing: Standard singles and standard doubles
Size: 254 residents
Building retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: A kitchen and private dining room on the first floor
Lounges: One lounge and one study room on each floor, plus several larger 
reading rooms and a recreation area on the first floor
Other amenities: Stever House was designed to be green, using practices 
that significantly reduce or eliminate the negative impact of buildings on the 
environment.
STEVER HOUSE
RESIDENCE ON FIFTH
FAST FACTS:
Location: On the corner of Fifth and Morewood avenues
Styles of housing: Prime singles, prime doubles, prime triples, prime quads, 
standard singles, standard doubles, and standard triples; one five-person 
apartment is available for special-interest housing groups
Size: 308 residents
Building retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One in C Towers basement and one in A Towers basement
Lounges: First floor contains a lounge, a study area, and a television room
Other amenities: Mudge House is a mansion originally built for the Mudge 
family of Pittsburgh. After its donation to the university, it was converted into a 
student housing location. 
MUDGE HOUSE

---------------------------------------------------

802.13.12Housing Guide
FAST FACTS:
Location: On the corner of Forbes Avenue and Beeler Street
Styles of housing: Apartments  one-bedroom (three students) and efficiencies (two students); a 
two-bedroom suite for special-interest housing
Size: About 150 residents
Building retention: Yes
Kitchens: In each apartment and efficiency
Lounges: Study lounge, TV lounge
Other amenities: Lounges include a piano, pool table, and ping-pong table; laundry facilities include 
six washers and six dryers; exercise facilities include four cardio machines and dumbbells. 
HOUSING GUIDEDOHERTY APARTMENTS
FAST FACTS:
Location: 4616 Fifth Ave., on the corner of Fifth Avenue and Craig Street
Styles of housing: Apartments  one-bedroom (two students) and efficiency (two students); the 
Fairfax Annex has two-bedroom apartments (three students)
Size: 272 residents
Building retention: Yes
Kitchens: In each apartment and efficiency
Lounges: Community room in basement with limited availability
Other amenities: Laundry room and aerobics room in the basement
FAIRFAX APARTMENTS
2012 ROOM SELECTION
Located close to campus facilities, Doherty Apartments can be considered one of the 
best options for on-campus housing. It is a mere three-minute walk to the Resnik Caf 
and 10 minutes from most classes. Doherty is a great option for students who wish to 
have their own kitchen in an autonomous apartment style of living.
Doherty is divided into four separate towers, each headed by its own RA, who provides 
his or her residents with the bare essentials: trash bags, paper towels, and, of course, 
toilet paper. Each tower consists of three ?oors and a basement.
As a community, there are weekly events to satisfy your sweet tooth and appropriate 
exercise programs to sweat off the following days regret. However, due primarily to 
the tower layout of the building, making friends in Doherty can be much more dif?cult 
than in other housing options. Most doors remain closed throughout the day, so the 
occasional meet-and-greet as you leave the building is often the only interaction 
between residents.
Doherty Apartments provides air-conditioning in its exercise room; however, that is the 
only room in the building that is equipped with it. Most residents purchase personal airconditioning units during hot weather. Make sure to take them out during the winter, as 
Dohertys weak heaters force residents to cling to every bit of warmth that they can.
Rooms provide just the right mix of privacy and integration with your roommates. The 
one-bedroom triples include a bedroom for the three beds, a bathroom, and a living room 
with a kitchenette. The living room also has three study desks, a dining table, a couch, 
and a small loveseat. Two-person ef?ciencies are similar, though everything is located in 
a single room without some of the furniture.
In general, Doherty Apartments provides a decently sized living area for those who seek 
autonomy in college life.
The community in Fairfax Apartments is not as strong as in on-campus dorms 
like Morewood, because each ?oor is home to a mix of Carnegie Mellon and nonCarnegie Mellon residents. Despite this, Fairfax Apartments is the perfect transition 
for upperclassmen to living in off-campus housing. Once acquainted with back-alley 
shortcuts, its a quick 10- to 15-minute walk to campus, and the buildings proximity 
to Craig Street, which houses many restaurants that are open late at night, make it 
appealing to many college students. 
Inside the individual apartments, every room is carpeted, except for the kitchen and 
bathroom, which have tiling. The walls, conveniently, are solid  a welcome change 
from the paper-thin dividers that separate rooms in some on-campus housing. Fairfax 
is also relatively quiet, although every now and then, a group of happy, shouting people 
may break the silence. The rooms are furnished and come prepared with beds, tables, 
and drawers, and the kitchen has a stove and refrigerator. Some units even have 
dishwashers. Air-conditioning and heating are included as well.
Bus stops for the 54C, 71 series, and 75 are also located close to the buildings doors. 
Pittsburgh is on your doorstep if you live in Fairfax.
Laundry payment may be the largest problem students have with Fairfax. Doing laundry 
requires that students ?rst buy a $5 card to pay for the machines. The card does not 
actually come with $5; students must put in money manually, and the machine accepts 
only bills. In addition, Fairfaxs internet connection is not Carnegie Mellon internet, 
but rather Comcast. Finally, the cost of living is one of the highest at Carnegie Mellon 
(starting at $7,370 for an ef?ciency apartment), but with all of Fairfaxs amenities and its 
prime location, it is understandably so.

---------------------------------------------------

902.13.12Housing Guide
FAST FACTS:
Location: On Margaret Morrison Street, beside the Greek apartments
Styles of housing: Apartments  two-floor, two-bedroom (four students)
Size: 80 students
Building retention: Yes
Kitchens: In each apartment
Lounges: One on first floor
MARGARET MORRISON APARTMENTS
FAST FACTS:
Location: The Hill  across the courtyard from Boss, in front of Hamerschlag
Styles of housing: Prime singles and prime doubles
Size: 71 residents (female only)
Building retention: Yes
Kitchens: One on the first floor
Lounges: One per floor, and one main lounge on the first floor with a study lounge
Other amenities: Laundry room
McGILL HOUSE
McGill, Carnegie Mellons only all-female dorm, offers residents prime doubles and 
singles arranged into suites. Each suite connects two doubles, or two doubles and one 
single. Rooms in McGill are small, meaning residents are often forced to loft their beds 
and sleep only inches from the ceiling. However, the size of the rooms is offset by the 
convenience of semi-private bathrooms in each suite.
McGill may be one of the smaller dorms, but residents social lives are certainly not 
limited. McGill offers a friendly environment, especially since residents can socialize 
in any of the individual ? oor lounges or in the large ? rst-? oor television room and study 
area. Weekly events bring together residents from both Boss and McGill and offer a 
reliable dose of fun and entertainment. Also, when residents tire of their own building, 
they are just a few steps away from other Hill residences  including Hamerschlag, one 
of Carnegie Mellons all-male dorms.
McGills location on Margaret Morrison Street also offers unique perks. Residents can 
catch art exhibitions, shows, and events at The Frame, Carnegie Mellons student-run 
art gallery on the corner of Forbes Avenue and Margaret Morrison Street. After a short 
walk across the street, residents can take advantage of the nearby campus dining 
locations, including Tartans Pavilion, the Carnegie Mellon Caf, and Resnik Caf. And 
when campus food gets too monotonous, the food trucks parked nearby offer a great 
alternative to on-campus dining.
But McGill also has its downfalls. The size of bedrooms ranks at the top of the list of 
complaints. Shared bathrooms with limited hot water, unreliable locks, and tiny showers 
are also a concern. The bathrooms, while slightly dysfunctional, are currently cleaned 
weekly by housekeeping staff, though that may change in coming years. 
Despite the less-than-fabulous facilities, McGill offers female students an excellent 
social experience in a convenient location.
Margaret Morrison Apartments, located on the Hill, offers residents arguably the nicest 
on-campus apartments. Each unit has two ? oors, with a lounge and kitchen on the 
? rst ? oor and bedrooms and bathrooms either up or down a ? oor, depending on the 
apartment. All of the Maggie Mo apartments were redone in 2007, when they were 
re? tted with new furniture, appliances, and countertops.
Although these apartments have a common lounge or living area on the ? rst ? oor, the 
lounges arent spacious by any means. The bedrooms, however, are exactly the opposite; 
they are some of the biggest bedrooms that you will ? nd on campus. Each apartment 
has its own kitchen, which is nice for upperclassmen who are tired of campus food.
Each of the Margaret Morrison apartment units is separate from the others, which can 
be isolating, though this is what most upperclassmen prefer. Residents also have access 
to laundry and exercise facilities, which are on the street level of Margaret Morrison 
Street.
Although the common areas may be a bit tight, Maggie Mo can offer residents the 
chance to have independence while still living on campus.

---------------------------------------------------

Housing Guide1002.13.12
FAST FACTS:
Location: Corner of Forbes Avenue and Morewood Avenue
Styles of housing: Prime singles, prime doubles, prime triples; one six-person and one 10-person 
suite reserved for special-interest housing
Size: 455 residents
Building retention: Yes
Kitchens: Three, one on the second, fourth, and sixth floors
Lounges: Two lounges per floor
Other amenities: TV room, quiet study lounge, computer cluster, workout facility, recreation room, 
and two laundry facilities at opposite ends of the building
HOUSING GUIDEMOREWOOD GARDENS
FAST FACTS:
Location: 617 Neville St., at the corner of Fifth Avenue and Neville Street
Styles of housing: Apartments (Six-occupant apartment with single and double bedrooms)
Size: 24 residents
Building retention: Yes
Kitchens: In each apartment
Lounges: One common basement, four living rooms
NEVILLE CO-OP
2012 ROOM SELECTION
While students of most residences have to pull on their shoes and head to campus to 
?nd a hot meal or a working printer, Morewood Gardens residents need not leave the 
premises. Fully equipped with a computer cluster, a source of convenient (albeit greasy) 
food at The Underground, large laundry rooms, and a gym, this dorm is completely selfsuf?cient. And whats more, its smack at the corner of Morewood and Forbes avenues, 
only a couple of steps away from campus.
The dorms proximity to campus gives it a signi?cant edge over other residential 
areas. This factor maximizes your sleep time before early classes and also allows you to 
sprint back for your homework when you realize youve left it in your room. While both 
Stever and Mudge Houses are located on Morewood Avenue, they normally house only 
?rst-year students, making Morewood the only choice for students who want to live in       
this area.
Morewoods plentiful lounges, including a few on each ?oor in addition to the larger 
study rooms and TV lounge on the ?rst ?oor, allow for frequent group gatherings. While 
this is a positive attribute for more social students, it means that several rooms on each 
?oor are likely to experience frequent noise disturbances throughout the day and night.
When choosing a room in Morewood, its hit-or-miss. Some rooms are spacious and 
quiet, and others are small and loud. Its the luck of the draw, and sometimes you lose. 
Try to plan out which rooms look best from the ?oor plans online, and try to visit a room 
before committing. This will give you a good idea of what youre getting.
Morewood Gardens could be a great place to live, but before deciding to move in, check 
out the rooms ahead of time and ask the current residents about the noise situation, as 
some rooms are better than others.
The Neville Co-op is a living community through the Carnegie Mellon housing system, 
comprised of eight apartments that feature a mix of double and single bedrooms. Every 
apartment is connected to one other apartment, which means the four large living rooms 
in the building are each associated with one pair of apartments. All apartments in the 
co-op are fully furnished and include a kitchen and bathroom.
Founded by student activists in 2003 as a center for students interested in sustainable 
living, civil equality, and social progress, the Neville co-op is a democratic living 
community. It has no resident assistants, only liaisons to the Housing and Student 
Life of?ces who help the co-op solve housing problems. This independence is a mixed 
blessing for the co-ops residents: While they are encouraged to be self-motivated, 
the lack of cohesiveness that can result leads to a space that is often unkempt and 
somewhat disorganized.
While the rent for the co-op is comparable to other on-campus apartments, residents 
are allowed to stay through the summer at no extra cost and can sublet if they are not in 
Pittsburgh for the summer months. Residents do have to pay a membership fee, which 
provides each apartment with an internet connection and free laundry in the basement 
 with a year-long supply of environmentally friendly laundry detergent, light bulbs, 
and toilet paper. Additionally, the basement is a common space that students use for 
dinners, leisure, storage, and meetings.
Residents of the co-op must apply for admission and are encouraged to participate in the 
varied events hosted by the current members of the co-op that are held during the room 
selection period.
Once students are interviewed and selected to live in the apartment complex, they 
will ?nd a community of students active in a variety of student organizations. When it 
was founded in 2003, the co-op was created based on the tenets of sustainability and 
environmental awareness, activism, and equality in race, gender, and sexuality.

---------------------------------------------------

02.14.11Housing Guide11
FAST FACTS:
Location: Roselawn Terrace (off Margaret Morrison Street)
Styles of housing: Three-bedroom houses (one single, two doubles)
Size: Five students in each of 12 houses
Building retention: Yes
Kitchens: One in each house
Lounges: One in the common Margaret Morrison space and a living space in each house
ROSELAWN TERRACE
FAST FACTS:
Location: 601 Clyde Street
Styles of housing: Apartments  efficiency (two students), twoand three-bedroom 
apartments (three students), and one five-bedroom apartment (six students)
Size: 82 residents
Building retention: Yes
Kitchens: One in each apartment and one in the basement
Lounges: One in the basement with multiple couches and a big-screen TV
Other amenities: Street parking available and a spacious backyard with a grill
SHADY OAK APARTMENTS
Home to only Carnegie Mellon students, Shady Oak is perfect for students who want 
a more adult living space. The building follows 24-hour quiet hours, providing a more 
peaceful living environment than most other dormitories or campus-owned apartments. 
Each apartment has a full kitchen with an electric stove and oven, as well as a 
dishwasher. The layouts vary greatly from apartment to apartment, with some having 
single bedrooms and no common living space, others having shared bedrooms with 
spacious living rooms, and others having a combination of the two. 
There is a lounge in the basement with numerous couches and a big-screen TV; the 
space is commonly used for watching sporting events as well as hosting study groups. 
Basic gym equipment is also located in the basement. For students who want to keep an 
active lifestyle and dont get enough of a workout from the 10-minute walk to campus, 
there are multiple treadmills, an elliptical trainer, and a weight-lifting station. The 
basement is also home to four washers and four dryers  not on the eSuds network and 
accepting only quarters  and a large table for folding laundry.
Venture outside to ?nd a picnic table and charcoal grill that is always available. The 
backyard is large enough to play a game of Frisbee or football with friends. Across the 
street, there is a bus stop for the 71C, which can be taken downtown to watch a show or 
to East Liberty, home of the Waf?e Shop.
There are some drawbacks to living in Shady Oak. The plumbing has a tendency to 
malfunction, sometimes causing pipes to burst, leading to water shut-offs to ?x the 
problem. The radiators have also been a cause for concern, being set on a building-wide 
timer that can sometimes shut off in the middle of the night or be set on full blast on 
warmer days.
Recently renovated Roselawn Terrace houses, located off Margaret Morrison Street, are 
now some of the most sought-after housing options on campus. Roselawn is located on 
the edge of campus, providing students with a feeling of independence while still only 
having to walk 10 minutes to class. 
Each house, divided into a single-occupancy room and two double-occupancy rooms, 
holds ?ve students. The bedrooms are quite small  so small, in fact, that one of the 
doubles cant hold both residents desks. The upside to this is that the living area on the 
?rst ?oor is spacious.
Living rooms have hardwood ?oors and comfortable furniture. Each dining room 
houses a large table that seats six by a wall of windows. Kitchens have been completely 
re?nished with new cabinets and appliances. All the walls in the houses have been 
given a fresh coat of paint with vibrant accent colors.
One downside to the remodeling of Roselawn houses is that residents no longer have 
access to the basement, cutting down on the storage space previously offered. The 
rooms also have closets that tend to be too small for most peoples wardrobes. 
In addition to the large living spaces offered in Roselawn, residents have access to the 
Margaret Morrison lounge and exercise room. All Roselawn residents are also on the 
eSuds network, getting free laundry and access to laundromat-style dryers.
Another good thing about Roselawn houses is that, while there is more than enough 
living space, the cost of living in the house is less than the cost of living in some Oakland 
apartments. There has been mention of the price going up due to the renovations 
that took place last summer, but nothing has been announced by Housing and Dining  
Services as of yet.
Roselawn houses give the feeling of living on your own, while still providing residents 
with the amenities and assistance of campus housing. If you dont care about the size of 
your bedroom, Roselawn is the place to live.
02.13.12Housing Guide11

---------------------------------------------------

02.13.12Housing Guide12
FAST FACTS:
Location: 101/103 N. Dithridge St.
Styles of housing: Apartments  one-bedroom (two students) and two-bedroom (three students); 
prime singles
Size: 273 residents
Building retention: Yes
Kitchens: One in each apartment
Lounges: None, but each apartment has a living area
Other amenities: TV room, quiet study lounge, workout facility, recreation room, and two laundry 
facilities at opposite ends of the building
HOUSING GUIDEWEBSTER HALL/SHIRLEY APARTMENTS
FAST FACTS:
Location: Behind Scobell House, on Margaret Morrison Street
Styles of housing: Prime singles and prime doubles
Size: 83 residents
Building retention: Yes, except for non-single rooms on the first floor
Kitchens: One on the lower level in each building
Lounges: TV lounges and study areas in both buildings
WELCH HOUSE/HENDERSON HOUSE
2012 ROOM SELECTION
Webster Hall, located at the corner of Fifth Avenue and North Dithridge Street, is one 
of the most popular off-campus residences offered by Carnegie Mellon. Webster is 
located in the heart of Oakland, about a 10-minute walk from campus. One of the ?rst 
stops on the Carnegie Mellon shuttle line, Webster offers easy access to the numerous 
restaurants, cafs, convenience stores, and shops located in the Oakland area.
Carnegie Mellon rents out one-bedroom apartments to two students, and two-bedroom 
apartments to three students. The apartments are spacious and offer many bene?ts that 
dorm rooms do not, including a fully furnished living room, two bathrooms, and a kitchen. 
For many students, this escape from typical dorm life is the basis of Websters appeal.
In addition to the spacious apartments, students also bene?t from the facilities offered 
by Webster. The building contains a gym, a homestyle deli, and even an in-house hair 
and waxing salon. Additionally, each ?oor has a trash disposal facility as well as a 
laundry room.
There are, however, some small disadvantages. The laundry facilities can become 
a hassle for many residents. Using the facilities can become expensive, with a cost 
of $2.50 to wash and dry one load of clothes. The dryers on most ?oors are not fully 
functional, often requiring two full runs to completely dry clothes. For many students, 
this is one of the biggest complaints about Webster.
An additional point for consideration is the price. Renting a one-bedroom apartment or 
a double bedroom in a two-bedroom apartment costs $8,270 per year. Renting a single 
bedroom in a two-bedroom apartment costs $8,600 per year. 
 
Shirley Apartments, located next door to Webster Hall, contains small apartments with 
a ?oor plan similar to Websters. Each apartment has a bedroom, a living area, and a 
kitchen, while the ef?ciencies are essentially rooms with a bathroom and a kitchen. One 
of the downsides of Shirley is that it is one of the farthest places from campus. On the 
upside, the apartments are spacious and well furnished.
As one of the more recently renovated student dorms on campus, Henderson House is 
a clean and quiet place to live. This dorm offers students air-conditioning and heating, 
connected bathrooms  which are cleaned once a week  shared with one other room, 
and the intimacy of a small building, with 20 rooms per ?oor. The ?rst ?oor is generally 
reserved for ?rst-years only. 
Henderson House and Welch House are also labeled Wellness Houses, in that they 
promote green practices, maintain a substance-free lifestyle, and generally encourage 
healthy living. Each student who lives here is expected to sign an agreement promising 
to adhere to these standards during the school year. Students can also take advantage of 
playing for the houses intramural teams or participating in weekly optional community 
activities set up by the resident assistants. Tickets to special events like plays or shows 
are subsidized by the dorm, which is a nice perk. Henderson, although placed on the 
outskirts of Carnegie Mellon, is sheltered from any traf?c or noise from campus. The 
dorms residents also respect an unwritten policy of peace and quiet, which makes this 
dorm ideal for studying. Despite being on a hill, Henderson is very close to the Tepper 
School of Business, the tennis courts, Gesling Stadium, and the eateries at Resnik 
House, such as the Carnegie Mellon Caf and Taste of India.
Despite all Henderson has to offer students, there are drawbacks. Dorm rooms are not 
the largest, and on occasion the heating will malfunction, turning each room into a 
furnace. 
 
Welch is one of the Hill houses, but it distinguishes itself by having a 24-hour quiet rule. 
This often means that Welch attracts students who prefer to keep to themselves and are 
less interested in creating a community atmosphere. However, the atmosphere seems 
to suit students who want a comfortable home and dont want to be distracted by noise. 
The rooms are large and bathrooms are spacious. 

---------------------------------------------------

FAST FACTS:
Location: Adjacent to Gesling Stadium, next to the University Center
Styles of housing: Suite  typically five students share a common living space and bathroom. 
Dorm  prime singles and prime doubles
Size: 296 residents
Building retention: Yes
Kitchens: Four (West Wing floors 2 and 4, Resnik floors 2 and 3)
Lounges: Four (West Wing floors 3 and 5, Resnik floors 4 and 5)
WEST WING/RESNIK HOUSE
FAST FACTS:
Location: At the corner of Forbes Avenue and Margaret Morrison Street
Styles of housing: Apartment  one-bedroom (two students), two-bedroom (four students), and 
four-bedroom (seven students)
Size: 35 residents
Building retention: No
Kitchens: One or two full kitchens per apartment
Lounges: TV lounge and exercise room, shared with Margaret Morrison Apartments
Other amenities: Two washers and two dryers are in the basement. The Frame, a small student-run 
art gallery, is also located on the first floor.
WOODLAWN APARTMENTS
Woodlawn Apartments may be one of the older and more run-down housing options on 
campus, but it is convenient for walking to class, and its right on the Forbes Avenue bus 
routes that can take you anywhere else that youd like to go.
The bedrooms and living rooms both boast plenty of space, a de?nite upgrade for those 
used to sharing cramped quarters. Some rooms have hardwood ?oors; others have thin 
carpeting. The furniture has been recently updated, as have some of the appliances and 
bathroom ?xtures, which helps combat the run-down stereotype of the building.
In previous years, there have been repeated plumbing problems in the building, but 
maintenance has been quick to ?x them and get things back in order. Several times 
per semester, The Frame art gallery, which is housed in the ?rst ?oor of the apartment 
building, has loud parties that can be heard throughout the building. 
Woodlawn Apartments is great if you want to live with a big group of friends, since each 
apartment houses a lot of people. People generally keep to themselves, but this does not 
mean that residents do not participate in housing activities. There are relatively few 
students in the building, so youll probably get to know many of the other students that 
live there. Woodlawn is a good choice if you want a small community and are looking for 
living in an apartment on campus.
Resnik and West Wing are the ideal dormitory choices for students who arent ready  or 
arent willing  to move off campus but want a bit more of a grown-up place to live than 
a typical dorm. While students in these dorms have the chance to be more independent, 
they also boast a quick walk to any of the academic buildings on campus, a de?nite 
bene?t for those mornings when you just cant seem to stop hitting the snooze button.
Both dorms consist primarily of suites, which are made up of two doubles and a single 
with a common bathroom and lounge for the suite. A limited number of prime singles 
and doubles do exist in the buildings as well, though they are not as well known.
Resnik and West Wing are optimal for a group of friends who wish to live together but 
want to maintain their proximity to campus and the other advantages  like free toilet 
paper and a once-a-week bathroom cleaning  that living on campus offers. Students 
mostly stay inside their suites, leaving the hallways relatively quiet. The lounges do ?ll 
up, however  usually with groups of students either working on homework or playing 
video games.
Both buildings offer kitchens on certain ?oors, which is nice when youve had your ?ll 
of The Exchange and S Seor, but if you dont feel like cooking, Resnik is home to a 
number of dining options. There is the Tartans Pavilion, the Carnegie Mellon Caf, and 
Resnik Caf. In particular, Resnik Caf offers a variety of choices, including sushi, Indian 
cuisine, and comfort foods, among others.
With the numerous amenities that Resnik and West Wing offer, it is not surprising that 
both of these dorms ?ll up early in the room selection process. Hopeful residents are 
advised to ?nd a friend who can pull them in.
02.13.12Housing Guide13

---------------------------------------------------

1402.13.12Housing Guide
Just a 10- to 15-minute walk (or ?ve-minute bus ride) from campus lies the neighborhood of Oakland, 
the home of late-night food, University of Pittsburgh pride, and a population made up almost entirely of 
college students. Oakland is home to some of Carnegie Mellon students favorite restaurants, including 
The O, Chipotle, Chick-?l-A, Fuel and Fuddle, and Mad Mex. For those over 21, Oakland has a good 
group of late-night destinations, such as local bars like Hemingways, Mad Mex with its classic halfprice margaritas, and a liquor store with an extensive selection within walking distance. Another bene?t 
of Oakland is its availability of affordable housing close to campus. Oakland Avenue and Atwood Avenue 
are lined with student housing for both Carnegie Mellon and University of Pittsburgh students.
Most people living here are always up for fun; if youre looking for a quiet neighborhood, Oakland may 
not be it. Starting on Thursday nights  the start of the weekend for Pitt students  the neighborhood 
awakens, ?lled with groups of college kids out to have a good time. Oakland should be noted for its lively 
atmosphere and is ideal for anyone looking for an extended weekend and college-oriented surroundings.
HOUSING GUIDE
OAKLAND
Shadyside is home to upperclassmen from Carnegie Mellon and the University of Pittsburgh, 
graduate students, and young working professionals. Accessible by Pittsburgh buses, it tends 
to be slightly pricier than Oakland or Squirrel Hill; however, it is the most charming of the areas 
surrounding campus, with its tree-lined streets and boutiques. The neighborhood is best known 
for two things: shops and bars. Walnut Street is lined with a wide variety of shops, from small 
boutiques to Apple, J. Crew, Ann Taylor, and Banana Republic. Cozy restaurants such as the 
Walnut Grill are dispersed among the shops.
Just blocks from the restaurants are Shadysides bars. William Penn Tavern and Shady Grove are 
the most popular, known by Carnegie Mellon students to be the closest bar locations outside of 
Panther Hollow Inn. William Penn Tavern in particular gathers a large number of Carnegie Mellon 
students. On Tuesdays and Sundays, William Penn Tavern is open to all ages for its wing nights 
where customers can get 10 wings in a variety of ?avors, from traditional BBQ to the ?avor mix of 
the kitchen sink, for only $3.
While the area near these bars can be particularly loud from Thursday to Sunday, Shadyside in 
general is a very relaxed, quiet area. The young professionals who live in the area are sometimes 
called yuppies, and the college students who live there are very diverse   from artists to 
technical majors to medical students. Shadyside is a great area for anyone looking for either a 
quiet escape from campus or a bustling shopping and nightlife experience.
SHADYSIDE
OFF-CAMPUS LOCATIONS

---------------------------------------------------

Housing Guide1502.13.12
Just up the big hill on Forbes Avenue is the start of Squirrel Hill. 
It is either a 20-minute walk or a three-minute bus ride from 
campus, and the buses are very frequent  all of the 61 buses 
serve the route. The cost of living is higher than Oakland but 
lower than Shadyside. Furthermore, Squirrel Hill is the most 
residential of all the areas surrounding campus. In addition to 
housing upperclassmen from Carnegie Mellon, it is also home to 
faculty and Pittsburgh families not associated with the university. 
Most Carnegie Mellon students know the neighborhood for its 
restaurants and Giant Eagle. Squirrel Hill has a vast diversity of 
restaurants, from Thai food at Silk Elephant to Mediterranean food 
at Mediterranean Grill to the famous desserts at Gulliftys. The 
restaurants are dispersed among small shops, including those on 
the main thoroughfare of Forbes Avenue.
On Murray Avenue, just off of Forbes, the Giant Eagle is the 
perfect one-stop shop for all of your food necessities. Squirrel Hill is 
relatively quiet, with most noise coming from traf?c on Forbes and 
Murray Avenues. It is not a college neighborhood like Oakland or 
Shadyside, and does not have a prominent bar scene. It does have 
a certain functionality and residential atmosphere, however, that 
the other two areas lack. 
For someone looking for a short ride or walk from campus with 
all the necessities within walking distance and a wide variety of 
cuisines, Squirrel Hill may be the place.
SQUIRREL HILL

---------------------------------------------------

OAKLAND
Forbes
Centre
Fifth
Boundary
Ellsworth
Morewood
Beeler
Negley
Wilkins
Fifth
S. Aiken
Walnut
Murray
DithridgeCraig
Margaret Morrison
TechFrew
Schenley
CARNEGIE MELLON
SQUIRREL HILL
Clyde
SHADYSIDE
1. Doherty Apts.
2. Donner House
3. Fairfax Apts.
4. Hamerschlag House
5. Henderson House
6. Margaret Morrison Apts.
7. McGill and Boss Houses
8. Morewood E-Tower
9. Morewood Gardens
10. Mudge House
11. Neville Co-op
12. Residence on Fifth
13. Roselawn Terrace
14. Scobell House
15. Shady Oak Apts.
17. Stever House
18. Webster Hall
19. Welch House
20. West Wing/Resnik
21. Woodlawn Apts.
16. Shirley Apts.
9. Morewood Gardens
Morewood
Fifth
ForbesMargaret Morrison
Tech
Beeler
6. Margaret Morrison Apts.
14. Scobell House
Forbes
1. Doherty Apts.
20. West Wing/Resnik
19. Welch House
5. Henderson House
21. Woodlawn Apts.
13. Roselawn Terrace
7. McGill and Boss Houses
12. Residence on Fifth
4. Hamerschlag House
8. Morewood E-Tower
10. Mudge House
17. Stever House
2. Donner House
18. Webster Hall
Dithridge
Fifth
12. Residencce
Fifth
Clyde
Ellsworth
15. Shady Oak Apts.
Neville
3. Fairfax Apts.Craig
11. Neville Co-op
16. Shirley Apts.
14.
1.
3.
18.5.
7.6.
8.
11.
13.
17.
19.
20.
15.
12.
4.
9.
16.
10.
2.
21.
LANAN
orrMorri3
Neville
HOUSING OPTIONS MAP 2012
