So how was Peter Gabriel? In-tense! 
The Tartan talks to Steeler Bubby Brister
The Tartan
Volume 81, Issue 9Carnegie Mellon UniversityNovember 11,1986
CMU Student Struck by Automobile on MM Street
By AMY STEVENSON
Tartan Staffwriter 
A CMU freshman was struck by a car last 
Monday, November 3, on Margaret 
Morrison Street. This is the most recent in a 
series of accidents on city streets running 
through campus. Although the city has 
promised in the past to remedy these 
dangerous conditions, nothing has been 
done.Security reports state that the student, 
Stephen Carpenter, was struck by a car in 
front of the Margaret Morrison CO-OP. A 
CO-OP employee informed security who 
arrived at the scene at 11:24 A.M , shortly 
after the accident occured. Pittsburgh police 
were also called to the scene. The car, 
heading north on Margaret Morrison St., 
was driven by a woman reportedly leaving 
the Day Care facility located on campus. 
According to the security report, the woman 
stated that Carpenter ran into her car. 
Carpenter does not recall the accident. 
Immediately after the accident, Carpenter was 
transported to Presbyterian Hospital in 
Pittsburgh where he was admitted and treated 
for a skull fracture and concussion. He was 
released the following Friday.
Forbes and M.M. St., just one of several
According to Student Senate president, 
Peter Cohen, this entire accident could have 
been avoided. Last May, a Senate committee 
did an in-depth study on traffic related 
accidents on the CMU campus. They found 
fives cases where pedestrians had been struck 
by cars on streets running through campus. 
These cases occured within a one year period.
" photo by Albrecht Powell
dangerous campus intersections
The committee attributed these accidents to 
unsafe conditions on Forbes Ave., 
Morewood Ave., Tech St., and Margaret 
Morrison St.. The committee submitted a 
report, approved by CMU administration, to 
the Pittsburgh Dept, of Public Works of 
changes that would increase pedestrian safety 
in these areas. These changes included Yield
to Pedestrian signs in the particularly 
dangerous areas, as well as Stop signs and 
repainted crosswalks in some of these areas. 
The Department promised the committee 
that these changes would be implemented in 
the near future. However, they have yet to 
take any action.
Cohen attributes this inaction to a 
shuffling of personnel in the Public Works 
Dept, of Engineering and Traffic Safety as 
well as general negligence. Cohen, as well 
as President Cyert and Vice President for 
Business Affairs Fred Rogers, have 
attempted to make contact with the head of 
the Dept, of Public Works to discuss the 
matter. However, he has remained 
unreachable. Cohen sees the citys failure to 
act as a very serious situation, stating "If 
they dont do something, more of this will 
happen." Meanwhile, with the help of Cyert 
and Rogers, Cohen continues to try to get 
the city to act on the report.
In relation to the Carpenter accident, no 
witnesses have come forward. In order to 
clear up the details of the accident. Dean Cox 
of Student Affairs is asking anyone who 
witnessed the accident to contact her at 
x2073,74 or 75.
Delta Upsilon Initiates President Cyert into Fraternity
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons Chapter of Delta 
Upsilon initiated President Richard M. Cyert 
at their Founders' Day House Meeting on 
November 2. Cyert inherits the rights and 
privileges of a Delta Upsilon Alumnus, and 
is recognized by Delta Upsilon members as 
"Brother Cyert."
"We read about the program [whereby Delta 
Upsilon Chapters initiate community 
leaders] and thought it would be something 
special to do here -- Dr. Cyert came to 
mind," said Tom Koehler, President of 
Carnegie Chapter of Delta Upsilon. "I 
thought about the position, then talked with 
the Dean of Student Affairs before I 
accepted," Cyert said. Also included at the 
Founder's Day program were officer 
summaries and Charges from Thomas D. 
Hansen, Executive Director of Delta Upsilon 
Fraternity International, and Carnegie 
Alumnus Gary Middleton.
Cyert addressed Greek issues during the 
meeting: "Fraternities and Sororities are
ready-made organizations that fit in nicely 
and provide a backbone for activities. They 
are an important part of the 
university's total social organization," Cyert 
said. . . They teach people the vital skills 
of self-evaluation, how to tackle problems, 
and how to pose solutions. It's important to 
evaluate afterwards. Seek out parents, 
faculty and administrators and ask them. 
What do you think?' "
The fCMU) Administration encourages 
and rewards groups that do well. We 
encourage Fraternities and Sororities to come 
foreward and share sincere opinions on just 
how they're perceived. . . I think you will 
find that the administration will be
increasingly more cooperative. Together we 
can really enrich the campus: Fraternities 
and Sororities can help improve relations on 
campus between black and white students. 
Better-integrated chapters will help Carnegie 
Mellon serve as a social model."
"I have a number of concerns with 
Fraternity and Sorority housing," Cyert 
continued. A solution may be "the 
appointment of a Fraternity committee to 
work with alumni and administrators on a 
task force to examine how the current 
housing came about, and long-term plans 5, 
10, and 15 years ahead."
"We won't knock down the 
Fraternity buildings as described in the 
Master Plan," Cyert said after the meeting. 
"We hope the buildings can be structurally 
repaired. People are looking into it 
[structural improvements]. In the short run 
we can do it, and we want to maintain the 
buildings for longer."
"I have no current plans to participate in 
Delta Upsilon. I'm very busy at the 
moment," Cyert said.
Thomas D. Hansen, Delta Upsilon 
International Fraternity Executive Director, 
also spoke: "We're very pleased that Brother 
Cyert desired to be part of the Greek system, 
an extremely important part of our 
university. Fraternities and Sororities take 
leadership roles, and the campus would be 
the poorer without them . . . It's important 
for Fraternities and Sororities to take the 
same pride in the University as in the 
Chapter  to find ways to improve the 
whole university environment. . . I
challenge you not to be complacent  not to 
accept mediocrity. Don't settle unless you 
have the very best."
And in other Greek news: Delta
Gamma sorority sells $1 raffle tickets to 
benefit The Delta Gamma Foundation this 
week.
"The Delta Gamma Foundation works 
closely with nation-wide societies to prevent 
blindness," said Alice Seubert, Philanthropy 
Chair. "Well give cash prizes: a first prize 
of $75, $25 for second place, and the third 
place winner will receive lunch for two at 
Vincent's, an Italian resturant." The drawing 
will be held live on WRCT at 8pm Sunday. 
"Well do more activities to benefit the blind 
in the Spring," Seubert said.
Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity will help the 
United Way meet their $31,350,000 goal 
when they work at a neighborhood telethon 
tonight. "We work at a United Way telethon 
every year," said Bryan Glass, Pi Kappa 
Alpha Community Relations Chair. "The 
United Way serves 127 agencies in 
Southwestern Pennsylvania," said Kathy
Uitvlugt, Education Division Director of the 
Allegheny County United Way. "We help 
agencies help unemployed people make 
mortgage payments, provide health and 
medical care for chronic diseases like MS, 
and support womens centers and shelters." 
Call 1-800-345-GIVE to support the United 
Way.
Delta Tau Delta fraternity hosts a 
"Postman Party" to benefit The American 
Cancer Society this Friday at 10 pm. The 
party is open to all CMU students for a $2 
donation. Tom Koshut, Philanthropy Chair, 
described the event in this way: "You'll get 
some stamps when you enter and you'll wear 
a number around your neck. You can send 
a message to someone  using their number -
- through our Post Office downstairs: give
the Postman a stamp and he will put your 
folded message on the peg 
continued on page 3Accused Rapist Arrested
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor 
A suspect was arrested Thursday in 
connection with a rape and an assault that 
happened in Oakland over the past month.
A 19-year-old Pitt student woke up around
2 a.m. in her Atwood Street apartment to 
find a man sitting in the chair next to her 
bed with a butcher knife. The male, who 
claimed to gain entrance through a window, 
raped her and got away.
Four nights later, on the 30th, a Pitt 
student living on Oakland Avenue walked 
into her bedroom. A male jumped out from 
behind the door and told her to get on the 
bed. He was holding two icepicks. She
screamed and got away, unharmed.
The arrested suspect fit the description 
given by both women: a black male, thin 
build, 5'3"-5'5", smooth skinned, dark 
complected, aged 15-19. He will be held 
by city police until a hearing is scheduled.
Still, CMU Security is taking extra 
precautions in case he is not the rapist. Extra 
patrols were placed in the Hill dorm area, in 
addition to the patrols installed in Mudge and 
Morewood after a CMU student was raped 
several weeks ago.
As of yet, Pitt hasn't increased their 
security patrols, instead letting city police 
handle the matter since the attacks weren't 
technically on campus.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanNovember 11,1986
Striking GM South 
Africa plants to 
remain closed
General Motors says it will keep its two 
strikebound South African plants closed 
because the union hasn't agreed to end a ten 
day wildcat strike. The strike arose after GM 
announced it would sell its South African 
operation to local managers. Most of the 
workers walked out demanding a voice in the 
new management.
White House 
Accused of Trading 
Arms for Hostages in 
Iran
The New York Times says a plan for 
US-Iran secret contacts was drawn up by 
former National Security Advisor Robert 
McFarlane and approved by President Reagan 
18 months ago. The newspaper says an 
administration official has provided the most 
detailed explanation yet of the White House's 
secret diplomacy with Iran. Reportedly the 
plan was meant to improve relations and 
help gain freedom for American hostages in 
Lebanon. The White House has refused to 
comment.
Former President Jimmy Carter says he's 
distressed over reports the US traded military 
spare parts to Iran for help in freeing 
hostages. Carter said, if the reports are true, 
it could be very damaging to the integrity of 
the United States and its leaders.
Soviets Remember 
Bolshevik Revolution
The armed might of the Soviet Union 
marched in Red Square Friday under a light 
snowfall to mark the 69th anniversary of the 
Bolshevik Revolution. The Soviet Defense 
Minister missed the annual parade. Western 
diplomats think he may be ill.
Jacobsen Freed from 
Lebanese Captors
What a week for former hostage David 
Jacobsen. Freed from a year and a half of 
captivity in Lebanon on Sunday, a reunion 
with his family in West Germany on 
Tuesday, and a meeting with President 
Reagan at the White House Friday.
Jacobsen and his family arrived at Andrews 
Air Force Base, saying he was "thrilled" to 
be back in America. Among those waiting 
to greet him were former hostage Jeremy 
Levin and Peggy Say, the sister of hostage 
Terry Anderson. Jacobsen and Say embraced 
and talked for several moments. Say said 
Jacobsen reassured her about her brother. He 
told reporters he won't forget the hostages 
remaining in Lebanon.
Jacobsen then went on to the White House 
for a meeting with President Reagan. Before 
the meeting, reporters kept asking Reagan 
about the efforts to free the other hostages. 
Jacobsen stepped in and urged reporters to 
"be responsible and just back off." He said 
"unreasonable speculaton" could lead to the 
death of the hostages.
Secretary of State Schultz says refusing to 
negotiate with terrorists is still the right 
policy for the United States. But he doesn't 
say whether that policy has been abandoned 
in the hostages case. The US reportedly sent military parts to Iran to help win the release 
of the last three hostages.
There Goes the 
Neighborhood
Lyndon "I will not submit passively" to 
arrest. Larouche could lose armed bodyguards 
because of that statement. A Virginia 
prosecutor is calling on the political 
extremist's strongmen to tell a Loudoun 
County Court why their gun permits 
shouldn't be revoked. Larouche is 
headquartered in the Loudoun County town 
of Leesburg. His presence is said to make 
some residents uneasy.
New York City Joins 
Fight Against AIDS
(Albany, New York)  The New York 
State Health Department is studying a 
proposal to give a small number of drug 
addicts in New York City free hypodermic 
needles to fight the spread of Aids.
The proposal won the backing of New 
York City Mayor Koch.
But State Health Commissioner David 
Axelrod says neither he nor Governor Mario 
Cuomo have decided yet whether to back the 
proposal, made by the State Division of 
Substance Abuse Services.
Axelrod says earlier statements by his 
spokesman that the Health Department was 
backing a needle giveaway program and was 
ready to launch it were "erroneous."
News Blurbs appear courtesy of 
Associated Press
Domino's Pizza 
Delivers - but not in 
Iowa
A former pizza company accountant who 
needed some dough has been sentenced in 
Chicago to two years in prison for 
embezzling more than one million dollars 
from the Domino's chain. Rebecca Rentfrow 
used the money to finance a spending spree 
that included trips to Hawaii, a five-thousanddollar cocktail dress and a mink coat. The 
losses could force Domino's to close its operations in Iowa.
New Space Shuttle ?
A Conneticut-based company is proposing 
building a new space shuttle. United 
Technologies is asking NASA if it's 
interested in an unmanned spacecraft that 
would use the launch, propulsion and 
guidance systems of the present space
shuttle.
Pirates Coach Quits
PITTSBURGHFormer major league 
manager Bill Virdon has become the second 
coach to leave the Pirates' staff because he 
couldn't work out contract terms. Virdon 
says he won't return next season because the 
Pirates won't give him the small pay raise 
he requested. Earlier, Pitching Coach Ron 
Schueler left because he couldn't work out 
contract terms with General Manager Syd 
Thrift.
SPRING SEMESTER ADVANCE REGISTRATION
Advance Registration for the Spring 1987 Semester wil be on Wednesday and Thursday, November 12 and 13, 
1986. All students, undergraduate and graduate, are expected to register on these days if they wish to enroll at 
CMU this spring , except for CIT/MCS freshmen, who have received separate instructions. If you won't be 
returning for reasons other than graduation, please file a Withdrawal From, clearly marked "Spring 1987" with 
your department. If you are unable to register November 12 or 13 (i.e. you're studying off campus), ask your 
advisor to process your registration, or call the Registrar's Office for special instructions.
The Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1987 is available at the Skibo Information Desk and inside Baker 
Hall's main entrance. The schedule contains next semester's course offerings, instructors, times, and rooms, as 
well as complete registration and enrollment information. Please obtain a copy, and carefully read and follow its 
instructions.
A single resistration form, the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D), will be used for registration. 
Your R3D is available in your department office and should be used to update demographioc information and to 
list your Spring Semester schedule for advisor approval. (Forms for H&SS freshmen and sophomores will be 
available in the H&SS Advisory Center at Baker Hall; CIT and MCS freshmen will receive separate instructions 
from Dean Kail and will not register at this time.)
* * * * *Advance Registration Instructions* * * * *
1. Pick up your R3D from your department and update/correct the demographic information.
2. Pick up a Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1987 at the Skibo Information Desk or inside Baker Hall's 
main entrance.
3 Plan a schedule with alternatives, and meet with your advisor to have the schedule approved. You cannot 
register until you have received advisor approval. Many advisors will extend office hours next week, but 
contact yours for specific approval information.
4. On Wednesday and Thursday, November 12 and 13, between 9:30am and 4:30pm, go to each department 
teaching a course(s) you wish to register for to obtain registration approval.
5. After obtaining all approvals, return the R3D to your department by December 10. Even if you don't get all 
approvals, turn your R3D in anyway; you can try to add an unapproved course in January.
If you need further information or assistance, contact your department or the Registrar's Office, 268-2004.
NOVEMBER 12 and 13

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 1986The TartanPage 3
Crime and Incident Report
rated PG-13: parental discretion advisedVP Fred Rogers Speaks to Senate about Capital Campaign, Master Plan
10/31 8:32 PM Fire - Doherty Hall 
1300 corridor. Several students found 
burning papers, plastic, and trash in a 55 
gallon drum.
11/1 12:14 AM Fire - A green chair that 
was on the sidewalk in front of Sigma Nu 
fraternity was set on fire.
11/1 4:15 PM Theft - A 40 foot, two 
piece aluminum ladder was stolen from 
the roof of a shed behind Theta Xi 
fraternity. The ladder was valued at $250- 
300.
11/1 8:40 PM Vandalism - The 
playing screen was shattered cm Gladiator 
video game in the Tartan Grill.
11/2 6:02 PM Theft - Margaret 
Morrison hall. Students JVC Walkman 
and radio were stolen. Total value about 
$140.11/2 11:06 PM Car parked between Wean 
and Hammerschlag Halls had the rear 
window smashed out with a brick.
11/3 11:24 AM Student hit by car on 
Margaret Morrison Street in front of 
laundromat. Transported to Presbyterian 
Hospital by Medic II.
11/3 Theft - Computer terminal stolen 
from Margaret Morrison Hall.
The James F. Lincoln Arc Welding 
Foundation has granted Sandra Zeiler 
Newman a $250 Merit Award in its 1986 
College Engineering Student Award Program 
for achievement in design, engineering & 
fabrication. The award recognized Newman's
Greek Happenings
continued from page 1
with that person's number on it. Only the 
person who receives your mail will read your
message."
"Contributions go for research, education, 
and service to cancer patients," said Jerry 
Gaughan, American Cancer Society 
Development Director. "Our goal is to raise 
one million dollars each year - and out of 
every dollar 90 cents goes to actual patient 
care."
Delta Delta Delta sorority and Theta Xi 
fraternity begin an on-going drive to support 
The Multiple Sclerosis Foundation, The 
Asthma Foundation and Children's Hospital 
on Saturday. "We have a permit to solicit 
contributions at major Pittsburgh 
intersections," said Kent Greenhold, Funding 
Committee Co-Chair of Theta Xi. "We'll be 
at the comer of Forbes and Morewood 
Avenues all day Saturday, and we encourage 
students to give." The 160-member group 
will also solicit contributions from area 
businesses, major corporations and alumni.
One quarter of our total contribution will 
go to Children's Hospital, our National 
Philanthropy." said Marguerite Moss, 
President of Delta Delta Delta. "We've split 
the committee planning responsibility 
equally with Theta Xi."
The joint philanthropy will culminate in a 
"pole-sit" during the 1987 Spring Carnival, 
week. "The telephone company will install 
a pole on the Cut. People from Tri-Delt and 
Theta Xi will sit on the pole 24 hours a day, 
and we'll ask for contributions for each 
hour," said Reid Horovitz, Theta Xi 
President. "Last year, businesses posted 
signs and contributed food for minifundraising events at the pole."
Delta Upsilon fraternity sells Big Heart 
Basketball Tournament tickets this week. 
The tournament  which takes place the 
weekend of November 21, 22 and 23 at the 
CMU Gym - will benefit The American 
Heart Association.
The Tartan welomes Greek and GDI 
submissions: please put info in the Tartan's 
Mailbox @ Skibo info desk.
11/3 12:35 PM Theft - AM-FM 
Portable Cassette Stereo stolen from 
office in Margaret Morrison Hall. Valued 
at about $90-110.
11/3 A gallon of Ammonia Hydroxide 
was thrown down a stairwell in Wean 
Hall. The area had to be ventilated due to 
the extreme concentration of the chemical.
11/3 Car vandalism in fraternity parking 
lot The right vent window was smashed 
and stereo stolen.
11/5 12:39 PM Theft - Silver and black 
Panasonic portable radio and a set of 
headphones stolen from Margaret 
Morrison Hall.
11/51:15 PM Theft - Orange and tan
fishing box with architectural supplies 
stolen from Margaret Morrison Hail. The 
supplies were valued at around $181.
11/5 9:33 PM Theft - Architectural 
supplies valued around $60 stolen from 
Margaret Morrison Hall.
11/5 9:45 PM Suspicious Person
- A man tried to gain admittance to 
Morewood Gardens by flashing a 
firefighter's badge to the desk attendant. 
Security was called and the man was not 
allowed into the building.
research of residual stress and distortion in 
welded structures.
Newman received her award as a student of 
Carnegie mellon's Mechanical Engineering 
Department. Her instructor was Jerry L. 
Swedlow.
By KEVIN POECKING
Tartan staffwriter
On Tuesday, November 4, Fred Rogers, 
Vice President of Business Affairs addressed 
Student Senate. Among things discussed 
were the plans for the new University 
Complex Center and overall expansion of 
the Carnegie Mellon campus. Plans for the 
University Center are to build a new 
structure or expand the building now called 
Skibo. This springs plans will begin with 
an architecture contest for the new complex. 
Vice President Rogers said he hoped to see 
the new center possibly by 1988.
The new center, however, is only a small 
part of the Capital Campaign to expand the 
entire campus. Twenty-five million dollars 
is the amount expected to be spent on the 
campaign. Tentative plans now are to move 
SUPA to the Bureau of Mines which would 
allow Architecture and Design to move fully 
into Margaret Morrison. This would leave 
room for H&SS to expand in Baker Hall and 
Engineering to expand in Porter. Computer 
Science could then use the basements and 
sub-basements of Doherty. Also, there is a 
possibility of building a new dorm on 
campus. The dorm would be located on the 
hill, probably on the parking lot next to 
Donner and the 1M field. The new dorm 
would contain a cafeteria, which would make 
this much like Morewood Gardens. It would 
be expected to hold 200 to 300 students.
Rogers was also asked about the problems
with parking. One member from the 
audience asked why parking permits cost so 
much (ie. $330 for Skibo and $140 for 
Doherty parking lots). Rogers could not say 
why it was so expensive, but assured 
everyone the University does not make a 
profit on the parking.
When Vice President Rogers left, the 
agenda moved to Dean Coxs report. She 
informed the Senate that the Calendar 
Committee's tentative plans for having two 
reading days before exams seem very 
positive. The meeting was then moved to 
President Jim Denburgs report. He said that 
a possibility of a basketball court on the IM 
field are plans for this year's Senior gift.
The meeting was well underway when Seth 
Kaplan attempted to get his motion to 
remove funding from the Objectivist's Club 
off the table. This led to a series of tabling 
and untabling and motion and remotion. 
This continued until Funding and 
Recognition Chairman Tamal Mukherjee 
decided to freeze the funds of the club. This 
ended all possible motions to remove 
funding until the Funding and Recognition 
Committee could meet. One Senator 
motioned to adjourn the meeting, but the 
vote failed by a wide margin. The final 
motion was to remove the Tartan's title as 
the official newspaper of Carnegie Mellon 
and declare no newspaper as official.
There will be no formal meeting of the 
Student Senate tonight.
Students:
Earn Extra Money
Part time job. Guaranteed 
salary to start. 
3 hours/night from our 
Shady side office. 
Ideal for articulate individual 
who enjoys talking to people.
661-9827
P s s s s s t .
Gift Giving Dilemma?
Travel Gift Certificates!
Forbes Travel(412)521-7300 or CMU x2999
DEBRA ABELL CMUM dermatologist
'iEasily accessible by bus from CMU
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland MasterCard, Visa accepted
682-5050 Call for appointment
... is special. It means being bright, 
innovative, curious and thoughtful, 
eager to turn technical problems into 
solutions. It means a willingness to take 
chances, to expose ideas to testing and 
the challenges of colleagues. People 
who learn by sharing and by teaching
others, who yearn to play with and 
develop ideas, are rare. We have them 
at BBN. Actually, we pay people to play 
and to stretch their genuine intelli
gence. Want to join them?
We are interviewing at CarnegieMellon November 21.
Studen
Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.
10 Fawcett Street, Cambridge, MA 02238 
We are an equal opportunity employer m/t/v/h
Mech E wins Welding Award

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanNovember 11, 1986
Aschin Talks about Youth Culture in Soviet Union
ohoio bv Albrecht Powelly flags by someone elseProfessor Aschin offers his views of Soviet teenagers' lifestyles.
By AMY STEVENSON
Tartan Staffer iter
Last Wednesday, November 5th, Mudge 
lounge was the setting for the second in a 
series of Faculty in Residence lectures. 
These lectures are sponsored by the Faculty 
Involvement Committee. Members of this 
committee include Mary Beth Angotti, 
Residence Halls Area Coordinator, and a 
group of nine resident assistants. Angotti 
stated that the lecture series is an attempt "to 
get faculty more involved in the residence 
halls." This program invites CMU faculty 
members to speak on their subject in an 
informal, discussion session in various 
residence halls.
The series began in October with Dr. 
Donald Wilkins, professor of music, 
speaking on "Music in Today's Society". 
Die second program presented History 
professor Dr. Paul Aschin discussing "Sex, 
Drugs and Rock n' Roll: Youth Culture in 
the Soviet Union".
Dr. Aschin has visited the Soviet Union 
three times since 1977. Living and studying 
with the Soviet citizens, he has gained 
invaluable knowledge about Soviet Life. 
Aschin stated that the Soviet Union is 
'undergoing a significant amount of
transition" due to a shift from rural to urban 
life in the last 70 years. These urban Soviets 
are not that different from Americans, stated 
Aschin. He dispelled the notion that "the 
Soviet Union constitutes an uptight, prudish 
kind of country". He described the Soviet 
Union as having a split between the public 
and private face. The public face is the 
common image of a Soviet citizen, reserved 
and unfriendly. However, among friends 
Aschin says "this private face is as warm as
the public face is cold". It is this "private 
face" that Aschin elaborated on.
Sex, drugs, and rock 'n roll are all to be 
found in the Soviet Union, according to 
Aschin. He likened Soviet love and sex to 
"being in high school again." Because of 
the severe Soviet housing crunch intimacy is 
"constantly a matter of whose parents aren't 
home."
Aschin sees alcohol as the drug of choice 
in the Soviet Union. There is a high rate of
alcoholism among Soviet citizens. Aschin 
calls this "Arctic Alcoholism" and attributes 
it partly to the boredom brought on by short 
summers and long, dark Soviet winters 
Aschin pointed out that normative drinking 
fn the Soviet Union takes place in the home* 
with a large meal. Aschin recalled Soviet 
meals where each male guest was given a 
bottle of vodka and was expected to consume 
it by the end of the meal. Soviets drink 
primarily hard liquor, like vodka or cognac 
They do have beer, although Aschin likened 
it to "Budweiser but watered down, sugared and served warm and flat."
The Gorbachev administration has made 
serious attempts to curb Soviet drinking, 
after discovering a loss in labor productivity 
due to consumption at work. Aschin stated 
that Gorbachev has been enforcing the 
drinking laws heretofore ignored.
Drugs have yet to be a serious problem m 
the Soviet Union, according to Aschin. 
Marijuana crops up from time to time, but 
harder drugs are very rare.
Aschin described Soviet Rock n' Roll as 
forming two groups, legal and illegal. The 
legal groups are those the government 
deemed "professional musicians." Only these 
professionals can can record and give open 
concerts legally. The groups Aschin felt had 
more impact were the "underground" groups. 
The most popular of these groups is 
Aquarium, seen by Aschin as "the soul of 
Russian rock." Aschin stated these groups 
are forced to go "underground" because they 
refuse to make any of the compromises the 
legal groups do.
Aschin remarked that the Soviets treasure 
western rock, when they can obtain it. For 
example, Aschin stated, "The Beatles are 
God-like to the Russians. Their birthdays are 
almost celebrated as holidays." Aschin 
mentioned the Grateful Dead, the Police and 
David Bowie as other Soviet favorites.
The third lecture in this series will be Dr. 
Klepper speaking in Donner. The topic will 
be " Reaganomics vs. Kleppemomics". The 
Faculty Involvement committee hopes to 
continue these lectures, presenting two a 
month in various residence halls on campus.
Bookstore Sponsors 
Discussion on 
Nicaragua and South 
Africa
A discussion entitled "The 
Government/Media Lie Campaign Against 
the Revolutions in Nicaragua and South 
Africa-Where Can We Turn for the Truth?" 
will take place on Sunday, November 16 at 
4:30 PM at Pathfinder Books at 402 N. 
Highland Ave. in East Liberty. The panelist 
will include Malik Miah, former editor of 
the Socialist newsweekly, The Militant, 
Fred Gustavson, graduate student at Pitt and 
member of Pax Christi, an international 
Catholic peace group; and representatives 
from the anti-apartheid and antiwar 
movements in Pittsburgh.
The Mannes College of Music
150 WEST 85TH STREET. NEW YORK, N. Y. 10024  212-580-0210
AUDITION DATES:
January 12.13. 1987 
March 4. 5, 6. 7.1987 
May 20. 21. 22.1987 
Late August/September dates 
to be announced
Scholarships are available 
M.M., Post-Graduate Diploma, 
B.M., B.S. Diploma
Major Fields of StudyTNs is a complete listing of the faculty.Volume8ul 1o ,ul1Iuosu 
The Gain* String Quartet The Mannes trio9Carn
Edward AkJwellArkady AronovDavtd Bar-IHanClaude FrankRichard GoodeJeannette HatenEugenia HymanGrant JoharmesenUNanKaNrLeonPommersMarie PowersJosef RateffPeter SertdnMna Svettanova-----*<-!--mane wotsnn,gar ioI MUv,MU tvyCMFord laderstedt McNeil Robinson WtHtoi i > Wtiitotiood
STRINGEDCryN,vtVrNy
NnaBeNna, Violin Raphoei Bronstein,Violin and Viola Isidore Cohen, Violin Feto Gain*. Viobn Shirley Givens, Violin Ani Kavafian Violin David Noden VtoHn Aaron Rosand Violin Dora Schwarzberg, Viobn Saty Thomas, Vtohn Hkoko Yajkna, Violin Paul Doktor, Viola and Violin John Grctfwm, Viola SoiGreitzsr, Viola Karen RMscher. Viola Karen lllle. Viola Timothy Eddy. Violoncello Gary Hoftman, Violoncello Paul Tobias, Violoncello Jufcjs levine. Double Bass Homer Mensch. Double BassUa,9
Gloria Agostini Lucie LawrenceNbt9arC ioI 9V,MvyyCnr 
Norman Grossman Howard Van Hyning Chris Lamb ^ci^e^ Rosenberger
6nnd6Crd ioI h,ayy
Andrew Lolya, Flute Thomas Nyfenger. Flute Elaine Douvas, Oboe Albert Gottzer, Oboe Mark Hi#, Oboe Ronald Roseman, Oboe Gervase de Peyer, Clarinet Peter Simenauer, Clarinet Burt Bial, Bassoon and Contrabassoon Harold Gottzer, Bassoon Judith LeCk*, Bassoon Aflen Won, Saxophone Myron Bloom French Horn Antonio lervolino, French Horn Ranter Deintinis. French Horn Philip Myers, French Horn Mel Broiles, Trumpet Vincent Peruerela, Trumpet James Smith, Trumpet John Ware, Trumpet Joe Alessi, Trombone Per Brevig, Trombone Donald Harwood, floss Trombone Stephen Johns. TubaMpayyCMap gvCNa, 
BtotFisk Frederic Hand Sharon Isbin Herbert Levine Mtehael Newmann,MUVyN,a ioIn,MUVyN,ap MnrdvMNCrg 
Yakov Kreizberg. Music DirectorMUn,vy ioIMUn,ap MnrdvMNCrgAmy Kaiser, Music Director.nCMV
Charles BresnerThomas CuMce Peter Bkus Ben Faul Antonia Lovarme DanMarek Marian Thompson Theodor UppmandCMNCnr
Mco Castei, French.German, and It ahon Dorothy Urts, English.nMapMUathV, tvyCM 
Fredric Popper
aMNCrg ioI yNagVM,aSN 
Wesley Balk Nina David Louis Petersonn9V,a MnaMUCrg 
Marshall Williamson Alexander Ryvkinynrg CrNV,9,VNaNCnr 
Antonia LavanneUCyNn,CMap9V,Sn,tarMVXManrm Baird Voice Charles Bressler, Voice Marcy Undheimer, Vcwce Kenneth Cooper, Harpsichord Lionel Party, Harpsichord Patrick Olkien, Lute Nancy WHson, Baroque Violin Director. Baroque Chamber Ensemble Myron Lutzke, Baroque Cello Mtchoel WHens, Viotone Richard Taruskin,Viola da Gombo Dennis Godbum. Recorder.Baroque Bassoon. Dulcion Stephen Hammer, Recorder.Baroque Oboe Php Levin, Recorder.Baroque Bassoon Sandra MWer. Baroque Flute Steven Sitverstein, Cornetto Beniamin Peck, Sockbut. Director. Mannes Renaissance Bond Beniamin Harms, Percussion Paul C Echols, Director. Mannes ComerataMUathV, tvyCM ioI VryVthpV 
Per Brevig lerryChampin Paul Doktor Timothy Eddy FeixGaMmk John Graham Howard Van Hyning Julius Levine Mane Po^^ers Peter Simenauer Dkme Walsh Uroko YapmoMnrNVt9n,a,f VryVthpV 
Madelne Shapiro,Director
yVMnrda,f 9Carn 
Emilie Harris Mkkxn KartchMnt9nyCNCnr 
Charles Jones David Loeb *Peter Plndar Stearns David Tcimpidis Frederick WariNVMUrCwvVynStvyCM
Elizabeth Aaron Edward AldweU Poundte Burstern ferry Champln Robert Cuckson Douglas Diamond Leo Edwards Charles Jones Ford laderstedt Larry Laskowski David LoebfiiVii ftlVM fUktnn(IRJMf IUI IVW! iyWWtam Needeiman Frank Nemhauser Marie Powers Cart Schachter Eric Wen
rf0nCK WOHv9Vdagngf 
EmBe Harris Marie Powers Cart SchachterUCyNn,f ioI pCNV,aNv,V nS tvyCM 
Andrew E. Green, MM, History of MusicL Mtohoei Grtfei, PhD., Graduate Studies. Literature of Music Charles Kautman, PhD., History ofMusicJane Gottleb. M.S.LS.. Graduate Studies Literature of Music Kenneth Stem, PhD., Studies in Opera History Fred Werte, MM.Music LiteratureaMadVtCM yNvdCVy 
Lotte P. Egers, PhD., German Gale Justin, MA. Western Civilization Blnor Rfchter, PhD., Art History Martin Smith MA, English Composition. Literature Carol Rosen Mng, MA. English for Foreign Students
NEW PROGRAMS:
M.M. in CompositionM.M. in Theory  M.M. in Historical Performance
FOR INFORMATION: Write or call Ms. Marilyn Groves. Director of Admissions
The Mannes College of Music  150 West 85th Street. New York. N.Y. 10024  212-580-0210

PUTTING
PIECES
TOGETHER...

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 1986The TartanPage 5Cancer Computers a Big Hit on Campus
By JEAN COOKSEY
Tartan Staffwriter 
Last week the Health Awareness Division 
of Student Affairs conducted a free cancer 
risk program for all members of the 
university community that detected the 
level of cancer risk through computerized 
tests. Donna Morosky, Director of Health 
Awareness, stated that the program has 
been a success, and is planning further 
projects for the campus.
The program is part of a three-speared 
philosophy which targets raising 
consciousness of the body, mind, and soul, 
for complete health fitness and awareness. 
Morosky discovered the idea for the campuswide project when reading the advertisement 
about the computer, which was provided by 
the American Cancer Society. "We thought 
students would be attracted to the idea 
because it was computer-oriented, and 
people have been enthusiastic," says 
Morosky.As Director, Morosky feels a great
responsibility to bring information to the 
campus that would increase health 
awareness. "If we've hit one person, made 
one more person careful about their health, 
then it has been a success," says the 
enthusiasist. She said she was distressed 
over the low turn-out at the "Freshman 
Pitstop," a function that her department 
sponsored around midterms. The program 
attempted to bring freshmen together to 
comment and complain about their first 
half-semester at the university. 
Unfortunately, only about 40 people 
showed up. "But that's 40 more people 
who know about us," maintains Morosky.
The next program the department will 
be supporting for the campus will be a 
lecture later this week by a Pittsburgh 
Pirate, Mike Bielecki. He is scheduled to 
speak on the effects of drug and alcohol on 
performance. The lecture is geared for 
athletes, but, as always, everyone is 
welcome. Check bulletin boards for 
information.
What are your 
chances of 
getting cancer ?
This computer 
could give you 
some answers.
photo by Albrecht Powell
London School of Economics 
and Political Science
A chance to study and live in London
Junior-year programs, Postgraduate Diplomas, OneYear Masters Degrees and Research Opportunities in 
the Social Sciences.
The wide range of subjects includes:- 
Accounting and Finance  Actuarial Science  Busi
ness Studies  Economics  Econometrics  
Economic History  European Studies  Geography  
Government  Health Planning  Housing  Industrial 
Relations  International History  International Rela
tions  Law  Management Science  Operational 
Research  Philosophy, Logic & Scientific Method  
Population Studies  Politics  Regional and Urban 
Planning  Sea-Use Policy  Social Administration  
Social Anthropology  Social Planning in Developing 
Countries  Social Work  Sociology  Social Psychol
ogy  Statistical and Mathematical Sciences  
Systems Analysis 
Application forms from:
Admissions Registrar, Room 10, L.S.E.,
Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England, 
stating whether undergraduate or postgraduate.^LSE
The Airlines Transportation Company
 Official Airlines Carrier 
will now operate service to the Greater Pittsburgh International Airport 
for Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh students 
direct from the campuses. 
Our Thanksgiving schedule will be on these dates: Nov. 24, 25, and 26. 
Five (5) departures each day.
Carnegie Mellon Departures
________(GSIA building)________
7:45 am 
9:45 am 
11:45 am 
1:45 pm 
3:45 pm 
5:45 pm 
Return Services  Sunday, Nov. 30  Each hour 4 pm through 9 pm. 
Rate: $8.00 per person each way.
Morewood Fire Alarms Still Plagued with Problems
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The newly installed Morewood 
Gardens fire detection system is not yet 
working properly. On Wednesday, 
Thursday, and Friday of last week both 
silent and audible tests were conducted 
to determine the cause of the 
malfunctions. The system was 
designed to sound four rounds of 
audible code followed by one 
continuous signal until it was reset. 
As of last week, the initial audible 
signals were cutting out.
Bob Anderegg, Senior Facilities 
Safety Analyst with the Office of 
Federal Compliance and Safety, said 
there were "both hardware and software 
problems" with the computerized 
system. The same type of detection 
devices were installed in Mudge House, 
the Dougherty Apartments, Boss Hall, 
McGill Hall, and the fraternities, but 
they seem to be working properly. He 
attributes some of the problems with 
the size of Morewood; it is clearly the 
largest that was wired, having 148 
audible signals.
As of Thursday, neither the 
manufacturer, the installer, or the 
designer of the system had been able to 
determine the exact "bugs", but 
Anderegg said, "Our hope is to have it 
corrected by tomorrow (Friday) 
morning." They had been getting 
"electronic feedback to the panel" and 
they have experienced a "powering up" 
problem. The system is supposed to
report to a panel in the security office 
and show the exact location of any 
alarms; it has not been doing that.
While the system is being installed 
and tested, there is an ongoing 24 hour 
fire-watch by Campus Security. This 
will continue until the problems are 
solved and the system completely 
integrated. For example, there are 
plans to install "door strikes" which are 
pressure sensors to indicate if certain 
doors are open. If all had gone 
according to schedule, the system 
would have been installed and operating 
properly before Morewood was 
occupied this year. There are plans to 
expand the system to all of the 
buildings next summer.
...more of an 
inconvenience 
than anything else.
All of the tests and alarms are 
frustrating to Morewood residents. 
Dana Rinehart, RA for the fourth floors 
of A and B towers, called it more of an 
"inconvenience" than anything else. 
She said that the tests are conducted in 
different areas of the building at 
different times to make it a little more 
bearable, and she doesn't feel there is 
any real danger because the alarms are 
malfunctioning. As in the case of the 
water break, "I think they would just 
knock on doors until everyone was out 
if there were a real emergency."
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268-2992
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.................................................... 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection.......................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid....................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
if
t.J*-
Nov. 14, 19S6 5:30pm
EMTIRDTEKG .MD IMTIRMRIlI
Presented rck Kiruv from Uhii Hiith Ilillel 
^eshivah IJnivrrsitij 31'i S. Hcllctidd Ave.
call lor reserv<itions-6/l-<S<S7ii
prices; $vS.()() members, StS.'jO non-members

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-The TartanNovember 11, 1986
McCormick Lectures on Post-Structuralist Theory
By JEAN COOKSEY
Tartan Staffer iter 
Kathleen McCormick. Assisstant Professor 
of English and Coordinator of the Freshman 
Literature Program, lectured to a small, but 
interested audience last Wednesday night on 
the "Paradigm Shift in Literary Theory." 
The talk was presented by the Philosophy 
Club, but a good portion of the people 
attending had interests in English and 
literature.
For almost one hour. McCormick traced 
the history of the changes in iiteratary theory 
that brought about the current ,thinking, 
which is the particular focus of the Carnegie 
Mellon English Department. The present 
paradigm, or model, of literary theory , places 
emphasis on the reader, and the cognitive and 
cultural factors that influence his reading of a 
text. This shift, McCormick explained, 
from the objective and, later, subjective 
paradigms, involved changes in both theory 
and practice.
The new theory', called post
structuralism, is based on the principle that 
readers can learn more about themselves and 
their culture through reading literature. 
McCormick stated that "our culture 
influences our reading practices and strategies 
and how we interpret texts. Perhaps, by 
analyzing our reading strategies, we can learn 
more about our culture, and our role within 
it."
The objective theory of literature, also 
called the "new criticism", developed in the 
1920s and 1930s, held that there was 
always an "essential" or "true" meaning of a 
text, which usually coincided with the 
author's intention. This grew out of an 
intense interest with the author, his history, 
and that of the text, which lead to 
authoritarian essays and viewpoints that left 
little room for discussion and compromise. 
"This was done to gain authority in the Field.
If you could prove that everyone else was 
wrong, you gained power as an important 
critic," said McCormick about the reasoning 
behind the theory'.
Many students may remember this 
method from high school experiences, where 
the teacher (or board of education) decided 
what texts would be read, and more 
importantl). how they would be read. 
McCormick was quick to allow that'1 this 
was not done in bad faith: the methods were 
based in the current ideology [underlying 
dominant value-systemsj of literature."
Out of this came a movement of literary 
theory thaf swung the pendulum in the 
opposite direction. In the 1960's, the 
subjective theory gained prominence, which 
was based on the "I'm okay, you re okay." 
theon of life. This era saw the birth of 
response statements, which differed slightly 
from the present. Carnegie Mellon 
definition. These were psychoanalytic, 
expressive essays, in which the student was 
supposed to reveal and acknowledge his true 
self," said McCormick. "The paradoxical 
result of this method was more authority for 
the teacher, rather than less. It created 
problems like grading criteria, because not 
everv interpretation could be equally good. 
Also, people ended up not referring to the 
text whatsoever. The worst result, though, 
was that the student had no power. The 
teacher would get all of these confessional 
essays, when he made no confession 
himself, and ended up giving 'sincerity' 
grades." she stated.
At this time, in Europe, the literary 
critics were developing a hybrid theory of the 
two American forms. "They were talking 
about the slipperiness of language, the 
reversibility of hierarchies, and the power of 
ideology," explained McCormick. These 
critics originated the notion that meaning 
was situated within an ideology, and always
came out of cultural constructs. "They also 
established that great pieces of literature 
remained prominent because they changed 
over time, rather than staying the same," 
McCormick said. This is the general theory 
of literature that CMU's English Department 
has since adopted,
"There are various directions on teaching 
literature that one can go in from this 
perspective. We chose the interactive 
approach, which focuses on connections 
among the reader, text, and culture," she 
continued. There are two benefits to this 
method according to McCormick: "It makes 
students more interested, because they now 
nave become the authority on the text, and 
consequently more interesting because they 
have more freedom in their responses when 
they relate the cultural and cognitive factors 
that influenced their reading '
There are two major critiques of the 
department, the first being that the approach 
is still subjective and "touchy-feely", but
McCormick disagrees, and responds that the 
student must still support his responses with 
either cultural or textual evidence, which 
takes this out of the realm of subjective 
analysis. The other is that the department is 
advocating "cultural determinism," a theory 
that assumes that individuals have no control 
over their lives, because ideology is so 
pervasive. McCormick defends the 
departments position on this by stating 
'That notion assumes that ideology is 
monolithic, but we insist that the individual 
always has choices among the man\ 
contradictory values imposed on him by the culture."
The lecture ended with a question and 
answer session, where some students, in 
addition to McCormick, responded to 
questions, as well as asking. This would 
seem to bode well for the theory in its 
practice, because the students gained 
authority enough to answer for the speaker, a 
complimentary twist for post-structuralism.
ROTC Holds Veterans' Day Services
The Army and Air Force ROTC will 
conduct a Retreat Ceremony in honor of 
Veterans Day on Tuesday, November 11. 
The ceremony will begin at 5 o'clock and 
will be located by the flagpole in front of 
Doherty Hall. The flag will be lowered by 
a combined Army-Air Force flag detail, 
while the retreat is sounded. All are 
] welcome to attend to honor our nation's 
I veterans.
A total of sixteen Carnegie Mellon 
I students have received Army Reserve 
Officer Training Corps scholarships this 
year. Ten freshmen were-awarded four year 
scholarships and six sophomores received 
three year scholarships.
The ten freshmen are: Marcie Allen,
Benita Asher, Tom Darin, Tom Dyhouse, 
Chris Johnson, David Kosmal, Douglas 
Oppedahl, Frank Oppedahl, Frank
Senchak, Arnold Shan, and Lisa
VanderMeer.
The six sophomores are: Elise Friedland, 
William Ott, Bryan Schmersal, Steve I 
Traynor, Don Williams, and Jon Zikoski. 
Congratulations winners!
The Army ROTC scholarships pay for 
full tuition, $180.00 a semester for books, 
and provide a monthly stipend of $100.00 
during school.
Anyone interested in finding out more 
about scholarships and management 
training should contact Capt. Perry Colvin 
in Margaret Morrison B-5 or at x2196.
STRATEGIC PLANNING 
ASSOCIATES, INC.
Opportunities In 
Management Consulting
Strategic Planning Associates, Inc. (SPA) is a 
management consulting firm that develops corporate and 
business strategies for a Fortune 500 client base.
SPA, based in Washington DC, London, Geneva, and 
Singapore, offers a broad range of services which include 
corporate strategy studies, individual business studies, 
acquisition analysies, analyses of competitors and industry 
structure, and operational and implementation studies.
We are seeking talented undergraduates to join the 
firm in our Washington office as Research Analysts who will 
work closely with other professionals on client case studies. 
The two-year position provides extensive experience and 
excellent preparation for graduate work.
Mr. Lewis Hay, Manager, along with other members 
of SPA's professional staff will speak on campus at Carnegie 
Mellon:
Wednesday, November 12 
Skibo Room 12 
7:00pm
An informal discussion with refreshments will
follow.
Shed light on
the matter
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY  7 -10 p.m
CALCULUS 
(Pre, 1. 11, 111)
PHYSICS
CHEMISTRY
ACADEMIC WRITING PROBLEMS 
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING ECONOMICS 
ECONOMICS 
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
SponMrd by Counseling and Student Development Center 
Division of Student Attain
PH 126 A
PH 126B 
PH 126C 
PH 125B 
PH226B 
PH226C 
WEH 5415

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 1986The TartanPage 7
Minutes of the Student Senate, November 4, 1986
Meeting called to order 7:00pm.
Present:Cohen, Frank, Giles,Goldstein, 
Gieenberg, Hausman,Kaplan, Kombrek, 
Larson, Lewis, Lonsky, Maxwell, 
McDonnell, Mukheijee, Patnaik,
Robitshek, Salley, Scanlon, Shipley, 
Siachura, Staresinic, West.
Ex-offfc members: Dean Cox, Dean
Walter, Denburg, DeLeon.Absent: Ayre (exc), Flynn (exc),
Friedland (exc), Levy.Ex-offkao members: Chu (exc).
Fred Rogers: Status report is as
follows:
-Conference center Looks shaky. Can't 
raise money. It is in the process of 
reorganizing.
-University Center: This is the biggest 
project. There will be an architectural 
competition in the winter. There is a 
programming effort to decide what ought
S to be in die building. Perhaps a new 
dormitory will be constructed. Idea is 
back because of problems with off-campus 
housing. Would be on Hill mirroring 
Morewood Gardens.
-Development of 50 acres on shores of 
Mon. river where J&L steel mill is. State 
is funding the building of structures. The 
money from these buildings will come 
back to CMU. We can also use buildings 
for research.
-Committe to research Apartheid will 
come in front of Trustees committee. Audience Participation: Aud: Please
install new doorknobs in CFA.
Dean Walter: no report 
Dean Cox: Attended a meeting of the 
calendar committee. Proposal is two 
reading days (Thurs, Fri) in fall '87, and 
two reading days (Mon, Tue) in spring 
'88. None of this is passed yet but 
outlook is good. Also being considered
is having the Wed. before Thanksgiving off 
and Having enrollment day on Tues Jan. 5. 
Senator Scanlon: Who must pass this
proposal? It must go through Faculty Senate 
and Student Senate for approval. Senator 
Giles: An extra day to be able to go home for 
Easter would be nice. Aud: Will we get Martin 
Luther King day off? No, but we don't 
recognize Presidents Day or Veterens Day 
either. Aud: I don't think we should get any 
days off because we pay so much money to 
come here.President: Jim Denburg: Next Mon. is
Trustees Mtg. People who dont have
informational packets go to Student Affairs. 
Support the proposed calendar for extra 
reading days. During Student Affairs Council 
of Faculty Senate, we brainstormed to 
improve faculty - student relations. Attended a 
meeting concerning classified and proprietary 
research. Copy of policy is in Senate office. 
The following persons will be given
honorary degrees: Grace Hopper, William 
Fullbrook, Usami Niguchi, Paul Volker. The 
best idea so far for the senior gift is a 
basketball court in comer of IM field. Senator 
Greenberg: Who decided or voted on who 
recieved an honorary degree. Pres: There is a 
panel that votes on them. Senator Greenberg: 
I'm disappointed that you didn't reccomend 
Nelson Mandela even though you had a 
petition urging this from your constituency. SDC:Leanne Chu SDC allocated $1000.00 
to help get Jesse Jackson to speak on 
campus.
IFC:Mike Ross No report.Chairman: Peter Cohen Because Wherrett 
room will be unavailable, next weeks meeting 
will be in rm 12 or 13. Will post. Nov 25 
there will be no meeting. PSAC meeting 
coming up with Dr. Crecine. Any input? 
Elections will be held in Hunt library in front 
of circulation desk. Elections are from 9am9pm Tues, 9am-8pm on Wed.Treasurer:Fred DeLeon No report.Academic Affairs: Subject of +/- grading
has been revived. FCE's are mandatory. If 
your professor does not distribute them tell us 
or go to the head of your department.Campus Affairs: Tabulated suggestions
from Happy Hour. Some of diem are: ice 
cream social or activity on a biweekly basis, 
outdoor water slide, organized traying, spring 
dance or ball. Senator Kombrek has come up 
with a good proposal for Doherty Hall sub
basements. Want to see an open forum for 
art students and faculty. Senator Hausman 
addressed the problem with the shuttle being 
late. She said Security is taking care of it. If 
there are still complaints tell Campus Affairs. 
Senator Ayre: If one wants to be escorted 
across campus call security and someone will 
be there to escort you. Senator Scanlon: 
Microfilm facilities on 3rd floor are terrible. 
AIA, responsible for accrediting the
architecture department has put the department 
on probation because of the poor library 
facilities. Senator Staresinic: Faculty Senate
is forming a library committee.Funding & Recognition: Senator
Maxwell spoke to Dr. Cyert concerning Jesse 
Jackson. Cyert told Maxwell that PR is 
tying to get him to speak as part of a lecture 
series. In light of this the administration 
will not financially support this. Senator 
Giles: Motion to allocate $5444.00 for
speaker from surplus. Motion tabled. Senator 
Kaplan: Have you looked into AB? Senator 
Mukherjee: No one has told me what the 
problem is. Senator Greenberg: There is an 
eight week gap where we are at school until 
clubs get approved.Public Relations: Working on election
posters. Painting this Sunday. Meeting is 
Thurs. at 6pm.Rules: Give secretary your mane if you are
interested in this committee. Some of the 
things we will be doing are: defining a 
political organization, parliamentary 
procedure, simplfy constitution.Old Business: Senator Kaplan: Motion
to remove from the table Objectivists 
Club funding. Modem retabled. Senator 
Maxwell: Motion to remove from the
table the fiscal policy amendment. *
Removed. Senator Greenberg: Since my 
ammendment was not friendly, I would 
like to make my own motion. Motion is 
concidered and passed. Senator Lonsky: I 
apologize to the Chairman for not
recognizing his gavel. However, I believe 
that filibustering is a senator's right. 
There is nothing forbiding it in the
constitution.New Business: Motion to temporarily
suspend the rules. Motion failed.
Senator Mukheijee: I freeze the funds of
the Objectivist Club. Senator Salley: In 
response to the Tartan article, I was 
embarrassed and I think that Senators 
should budget their time to eat dinner 
outside of the meeting. Senator Stachura: 
Motion to adjourn. Motion fails. Senator
Lewis: Introducing an ammendment on
attendance. Motion tabled for 1 week 
Motion to recognize no newspaper as the 
official newspaper of CMU Motion 
passes. Senator Robitshek: Introducing an 
ammendment cm recognition of student 
organizations. Tabled for 1 week. Senator 
Greenberg: Motion to temporarily
suspend die rules. Motion fails. Announcements: AA mtg. tomorrow
at 3:30
CA mtg. Mon. 10pm at office.
FR budgets will be in office by 5pm 
tomorrow. Mtg is 12noon cm Sat
Meeting Adjourned 9:45pm.
1)0 YOU WANT A .TOll?
Ome
"1
y.
Business
Opportunities
Conference
Monday-November 17th 
1 1:00am-5:00pm 
SKIB0
Meet with recruiting representatives from 
national corporations and discuss 
employment opportunities.
Sponsored by Al MEIWmimmKmmmammmiimmiKmmH

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanNovember 11, 1986
AIDS Symposium Attempts to Raise Awareness
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome 
(AIDS) is one of the most frightening 
illnesses known to modem society. Some, 
such as Newsweek magazine, claim that it is 
reaching epidemic proportions and estimate 
that by 1991 a total of 270,000 Americans 
will have contracted it, and 179,000 will 
have died from it. Still, people don't know 
very much about it. They think it was 
brought into the country by Haitians, spread 
by homosexuals, and contagious as poison 
ivy. A recent Village Voice interview with 
Haitians in New York City showed that the 
prejudice and fear is still very much alive: 
people make a cautious effort to avoid both 
them and gays because of AIDS.
Not that people are wrong to fear AIDS, 
but many don't really understand what it is 
and who it affects. In the interest of 
informing the campus about this, the 
Carnegie Care Unit offered a program on 
AIDS last Thursday night in DH 2315.
The first speaker, Dr. Bruce Dixon of the 
Allegheny County Department of Health, 
talked about the biological aspects of AIDS. 
He said it it "quite clear that it's caused by a 
virus" with an incubation period of 4 to 5 
years, which makes a quarantine an 
ineffective means of control. The infection 
can be divided into three stages: the first, or 
Asymptotic, is without symptoms. 
Everyone who has AIDS goes through this. 
The second stage, to which 25 - 50% 
progress, is the Symptomatic AIDS Related 
Complex (ARC). It is here that symptoms 
such as diarrhea, tiredness, fever, loss of 
appetite, night sweats, and swollen glands 
appear. 10 - 15% advance to the third stage, 
Symptomatic AIDS. It is here that tumors 
form, often mistaken as bruises or blemishes 
on the skin. Additionally, pneumonia can 
develop between stages tw'o and three.
So how contagious is AIDS? Stages one
and two are where most of the spreading 
occurs. The virus, HLTV-III, is transmitted 
in three different manners: sexually (both 
homosexual and heterosexual), perinatally, 
and by exposure to blood (either through 
blood transfusions or sharing needles for 
intravenous drugs.) Studies have proven that 
it is not spread by kissing, sharing utersils, 
toothbrushes, or towels.
Who is at risk? Of Americans currently 
afflicted, 73% are gay/bisexual males, 17% 
are IV drug users, 1% are Hemophiliacs, 2% 
caught it through heterosexual contact, and 
2% through transfusions. The remaining 5% 
fall into the "other category; however, 
researchers believe that most of them belong 
in one of the aforementioned categories. 
According to Dixon, of the 518 cases 
reported in Pennsylvania so far, 75 have 
been in the Pittsburgh/Tri-State area.
Dr. David Lyter, a professor in Pitt's 
Graduate School of Public Health, spoke 
about the research being conducted. So far, 
no cures are known. However, several drugs 
are being tested: the most promising appears 
to be AZT, which inhibits an enzyme in the 
virus. While it's not a cure, it can be used to 
treat pneumonia and ARC. Lyter, who is 
involved with Pitt's study on AIDS, feels 
that the research being conducted in Central 
Africa is very important, since AIDS is 
more common there.
Randal G. Forrester, Director of the Persad 
Center, a local counseling center serving the 
sexual minorities community, offered 
insight into the psychological effects of 
AIDS. "We all go through life believing 
we're immortal..." he said, and cited 
Elizabeth Kubler-Ross's 5 stages of death 
and dying: denial, depression, anger,
bargaining, and finally, acceptance. He 
claimed people often moralize terminal 
illnesses, wondering how such a bad thing 
could happen to a good person. With AIDS, 
infected children and transfusion patients are
seen as the good people: "the
innocents...queers and junkies are getting 
what they deserved, right?" Gay AIDS 
victims are sometimes abandoned by their 
families, especially if they were in the 
closet. Persad Center offers the emotional 
support the victims need but can't always get 
from their families and friends. Forrester also 
mentioned the hospices appearing in larger 
AIDS-population cities that "essentially 
offer the victims a place to die."
James B. Lieber, an attorney and former 
director of the American Civil Liberties 
Union, talked about the individual's rights 
are affected by AIDS. While there is no 
landmark case dealing with AIDS, Leiber 
still feels that AIDS victims need legal 
recourse. Discrimination is the most 
obvious case: people are refused housing, 
education, and employment, because they 
have AIDS. Some insurance companies force 
people to undergo testing for AIDS before 
they can purchase life insurance. Liability 
for Transmitting is another possible case: he 
claims the law "doesn't want to get into 
...any form of sexual liability outside of 
marriage," although a case in Chicago where 
a woman in O'Hare Airport was bitten by an 
airline employee with AIDS might turn into
the landmark case. Licensure is another case 
Some people want to deny licenses for AIDSpositive testers. Leiber sees "no reason to 
restrict people from marriage, becoming 
barbers, etc. since the virus weakens outside 
of the system." He applauded Pa. for its 
Human Rights Act, which makes it illegal 
to discriminate on the basis of disabling 
handicaps, including AIDS; and the Pa. Bill 
of Patient Rights, which allows for 
confidentiality of medical reports and 
respectful care. In June, the Justice 
Department issued a statement that said you 
might be able to discriminate due to "fear of 
transmission," but it died away because it 
never said that the fear had to be rational.Dixon seemed fairly optomistic, claiming 
a "phenomenal change in behavior" among 
the gay community; occurances of anal 
gonorrhea have been significantly lowered in 
Allegheny county, due to public awareness. 
He feels one of the biggest advantages of the 
publicity has been the "tremendous 
outpouring of money" towards research. 
However, as California's Proposition 64 
(sponsored by Lyndon Larouche) on last 
week's ballot that called for quarantine of 
AIDS victims has shown, there's still a long 
way to go to change public opinion.
P^10*0 by Albrecht Powell 
| The Andrew system was formally unveiled to the public in a special 
demo and explanation held Thursday, November 6 in the Bureau of Mines.
This holiday season, 
get theWrite Stuff 
at the right price.
Now \ou can net tlit competitive 
edge when clavo begin in laman \Xith a 
Macintosh personal computer, and all the 
uriti extras
Vie call it the Macintosh Mrile \tuff 
bundle You'll call it a great ileal' Because 
when you bin a Macintosh Write Stuff 
bundle before January 9. ll)N~. Ki ll receive 
a bundle of extrasand save SJsO
Not only will you get your choice of a 
Macintosh SI2K Enhanced or a Macintosh 
Plus, you'll also get an Image Writer1' II 
printer, the perfect solution for producing 
near letter-quality term papers or reports, 
complete with graphs, charts, and 
illustrations
Plus, you'll get Macl.ightning. 
the premier spelling checker con
taining an 80.000 word dictionary 
with options for
thesaurus, medical or legal dictionaries 
Together with vour favorite Macintosh word 
processing software you can transform 
vour notes into the cleartst. most letter 
perfect papers vou ever turned out And 
turned in on time
What's more, there s a Macintosh 
Snp|x>rt Kit tilled with valuable accessories 
tnd computer care products from 3M * 
Complete with all the things you need to 
keep vour Macintosh running long after 
you've graduated
l^t us show you how to get through 
college better, faster, and smarter Stop in 
and see us for more information
"rjfferOoeHLast 0 f9Hb Appk Computer im Appi and the Afipie hgo are repAtered trademarks Appi Computer Im of ifipie Computer hu Haciigbtmq# m a trademark uf Target xjtumre tnc
? ?bey sans? ?
FREE
DELIVER
WITHIN 
30
MINUTES 
? ? ? ? if622-7000
PIZZA c.CHEESE 
SUPREME
12" CHEESE 
$4.40 
16" CHEESE 
$6.50
ITALIAN
HOAGIE
12" WHOIE...S3.95 
6" HALF...*2.00
4523 Centre Avenue 
Oakland 
Sun-Thurs 11am-1am 
Fri - Sat 11am-2am
COUPON
Our Gang 
Pizza
$1.00 OFF 
Large Pizza
622-7000
Exgire^l VX/86
IOur Gang 
Pizza
50c OFF 
Small Pizza
622-7000
Expires 11/30/86

---------------------------------------------------

Is your future going 
to include all these?
 immediate responsibility
 technical challenges with real world applications
 state-of-the-art resources
 a cutting-edge environment
 dynamic colleagues thriving on teamwork
We have just 
described the unique 
opportunity a few 
analytically oriented 
individuals are going 
to find at J.P Morgan 
in New York City. If 
you have a BA, MA,
MS, or PhD in a quan
titative field and a 
professional attitude 
about creativity and 
hard work, we want to 
tell you more about 
what we can offer you.
J.P Morgan is a 
leading financial 
institution that is a 
major factor in trans
forming global mar
kets with state-of-theart technologies and 
talented people. Our 
standards are very 
high, but that makes
Morgan an even more 
attractive place for 
the few who thrive 
on responsibility, feed 
on challenge, and 
are eager to put their 
superior education 
to work. Now 
Think about it. If 
you dont have the 
patience to wait 
around for things to 
happen to you, come 
to our information 
session and talk to 
some people on the 
team you could join at 
J.P Morgan.
Wednesday, Nov. 19 
Ski bo
Room 127:00 pm
J.P Morgan

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Carnegie Mellon: 
Progress or Purgatory
"The cosmopolitan nature of Carnegie Mellon makes 
you feel that the creators of today invent not only for 
their science or their country, but for the rebirth of our 
whole wounded world," writes Jean-Jaques ServanSchreiber in The Knowledge Revolution.
"For the most part, the presumed humanists and artists 
on the CMU campus, caving in to power, have 
permitted ourselves to be re-tooled like Soviet prisoners 
in the gulag undergoing the process of "re-education," 
write Dorothy and James Rosenberg in Academic 
Freedom Be Damned: CMU on Trial.
Currently available for your consumption are two 
recently published works both dealing with and inspired 
by Carnegie Mellon. As the above quotes indicate, 
however, the tone of the two publications is radically 
different. As utopian and congratulatory as the first is, 
the second is apocalyptic and condemning. Like the 
National Review and the New Republic, the two books 
have to be read in conjuction in order for the reader to 
gain any semblance of a balanced view. You may even 
want to read them in quick succession for a thrilling, 
roller coaster-like experience, that will leave you 
giggling and trying to figure out which way is up. Or 
you might just be frustrated, wandering what ever 
happened to logic in writing.
Most people who read the two books (both are 
available at the Carnegie Mellon Bookstore), will be 
shocked by the stark contrast in the authors' perceptions 
of Carnegie Mellon and its role in society. ServanSchreiber sees a necessity for a revolution in education 
and industry using computer technology. He is 
unbending in his conviction that if this "knowledge 
revolution" does not occur, America will loose its 
powerful edge in the world, and this will be a sad event 
for life as we know it. "What the invention of the 
printing press did for mankind five centuries ago, the 
computer is doing today," posits Servan-Schreiber, and 
later, "If a village is connected to databanks and 
telecommunications networks, its people can be 
provided with information, knowledge, education and 
medicine." That's right, the people in "shantytowns in 
Lagos, Calcutta, Mexico, and dozens of other cities," 
don't need wheat and penicllin, they need IBM/PC's.
The Rosenbergs, however, ask a much different 
question. "Clearly what the world needs now is not 
more atomic weapons, more numbers, more machines, 
more of the Sears Roebuck catalogue of destructive and 
dehumanizing gadgetry with which we have become 
obsessed, but a wholly new method of feeling and 
understanding. The 20th Century has been the century 
of technocracy...Can we honestly say, looking around 
us, that it's brought us greater peasce an dhappiness 
and human fulfillment....The computers have yet to 
come up with answers to those questions."
Despite obvious differences in the two books, the 
similarities may be more outstanding and more 
unnerving. Servan-Schreiber is entirely unconstrained 
by the usual attention to logic, as he contiually argues 
from the specific to the general. Equally unconvincing, 
the Rosenbergs are content to draw their evidence of 
general malcontentment on the Carnegie Mellon campus 
from sources like the Student Union and Focus, where 
their hypothesis of collective unhappiness here will be 
supported. Did they ever think to ask random students 
here whether or not they were happy, or did they just 
go right to the list of transferring students?
In addition as unrestrained as the authors are by logic, 
they are equally unrestrained in scope. Both writers feel 
justified in expounding their views not only on 
Carnegie Mellon and its administration, but on the state 
of the world and the fate of humanity. In so doing, they 
ask readers not only to suspend their disbelief, but to 
indulge the writers' personal, rather unfounded 
opinions.
In their own distinctive ways, both books seem to 
have been conceived in good intentions. ServanSchreiber seeks to praise and honor the intellectual 
endeavors members of the Carnegie Mellon community 
like Richard Cyert, Patrick Crecine, Raj Reddy, and 
Herbert Simon. The Rosenbergs seek to increase 
awareness and save other helpless young academics 
from the same hideous fate that he suffered in the hands 
of Dean Midani, Mel Shapiro and the whole Carnegie 
Mellon establishment. "Reading over the preceding 
pages," concludes Jim Rosenberg, "The thought occurs 
to me that it is not every man who has the privilege of 
living in a Kafka novel."
Unfortunately, despite the good intentions, Rosenberg 
is as self-pitying as Servan-Screiber is selfcongratulatory, and both books become exercises in 
illogic and tedium.
(ofL TWe
Letters:
Campus Fast to Alleviate World Hunger
Editor:
The following are some 
interesting facts about world 
hunger and development in the 
Third World.
Before the day is through, 40,000 
children worldwide will die of 
hunger or hunger-related causes. 
Excluding the People's Republic of 
China, the number of persons in 
the developing world who suffer 
malnutrition is equal to the total 
population of Europe.
A million tons of grain would 
feed more than 4 million people 
for a year. The surplus hanging 
over the world wheat market was 
almost 130 million tons in 1985. 
Every day, the world produces two 
pounds of grain for every man, 
woman and child on earth. That is 
enough to provide everyone 3,000 
calories a day, well above the 
recommended daily minimum of 
2,300 calories.
Five companies control 80% of 
the world's grain trade. 23% of the 
world's land owners own more than 
50% of all the land. 4% own half 
the cropland.
55% of the grain exported by the 
United States goes to feed animals, 
not people. The average North 
American consumes 2,000 pounds 
of grain per year, but only about 
150 pounds of that is consumed 
directly as grain or flour. The other 
1,850 pounds is consumed as 
milk, eggs, meat, and alcoholic 
beverages. The average Asian eats 
less than 400 pounds of grain a 
year, most of that in its original 
form.
Since 1961, Costa Rica and 
Guatemala have doubled their beef 
production and tripled beef exports. 
At the same time, domestic 
consumption of beef has decreased 
40% in Costa Rica and 50% in 
Guatemala. Most of the increased
production has gone for U.S. fastfood restaurants. 36 of the world's 
40 poorest countries export food to 
North America. Africa, where more 
than half the population suffers 
from chronic protein deficiencies, 
exports protein foods to Europe.
One-half of 1% of one year's 
world military expenditures would 
pay for all the farm equipment 
needed to increase food production 
and approach self-sufficiency in 
food-deficit low-income countries 
by 1990.
Rural women account for more 
than half the food produced in the 
Third World; and for as much as 
80% of the food production of 
Africa. Four times more 
malnourished children are female 
than male, and their mortality rate 
is 40% higher.
Six diseases  measles, 
whooping cough, tetanus, diptheria, tuberculosis and polio  kill 
an estimated 50 million children a 
year and disable 5 million 
Continued on page 11
Reactions to the Shanty
Editor:
On first seeing the Students 
Against Apartheid "shanty" on the 
Cut, I was reminded of an identical 
protest at Dartmouth which caused 
some national controversy. The 
lack of originality exhibited now 
and before by this group of 
"concerned citizens of the world" 
offended me.
I do not wish to be taken the 
wrong way. I am by no means a 
supporter of Apartheid. It is, as 
the SAA and the remainder of the 
world believes, a racist and 
immoral policy. However, the 
blatant hypocrisy exhibited by the 
students "living" in the shack 
drives me to writing this. The 
South African housing situation is 
deplorable. The people have little 
or no food, no jobs, and poor 
shelter. Neither this shack nor the 
people who profess unity with the 
peoples of South Africa are any 
representation of reality. South 
African families do not have down 
sleeping bags. They do not have 
bottles of prune juice or Trivial 
Pursuit games lying about the 
house. They do not have cushions 
on which to sit, nor meal cards
with which they can get salads at 
the Tartan grill.
If these people wish to make any 
sort of impact on the students of 
CMU, they must abandon the stark 
hypocrisy which they exhibit and 
abase themselves in a fashion more 
akin to that of their South African 
"brothers and sisters." Their 
public awareness campaign 
indicates a lack or originality, 
doing and saying things that have 
come to represent the very people 
that the Students Against 
Apartheid are: "concerned" men and 
women who sympathize, but are 
not willing to do more than wear 
"Divest Now" buttons or camp out 
in comparative luxury while the 
people of South Africa are kept 
under the inhuman control of the 
white minority by Apartheid.
I would strongly suggest that the 
members of Students Against 
Apartheid seriously rethink their 
goals and priorities before they 
continue, and that the students and 
faculty of CMU be prudent in who 
they believe and when.
W.E.S. Harman 
Freshman 
H&SS

---------------------------------------------------

CMU Drama Presents...The Odyssey
PITTSBURGHCarnegie Mellon 
Drama will present "The Odyssey," Leon 
Katz's dramatic adaptation of the ancient 
Greek epic, as the second production of 
its 1986-87 season. The show will pre
view on Wednesday and Thursday, 
Nov. 12 and 13, before opening officially 
on Friday, Nov. 14, in the university's 
Kresge Theatre.
Directing the production will be Jorge 
Guerra, one of the directors of Carnegie 
Mellon's popular 1984 show "The 
Greeks."
The story told in "The Odyssey," says 
Guerra, "is about the discoveries that 
someone like Odysseus could make under 
extreme circumstances. It is a simple 
parable of what it means to be human."
Carnegie Mellon's production of "The 
Odyssey" will present the text on both 
literal and abstract levels through a 
complex integration of unique staging, 
formal performances, music and dance.
Audiences will have a rare opportunity 
to see performers interact on stage with 
computer-generated images used to inten
sify the play's dramatic impact. These 
effects are being developed collaboratively by set desginer Gary English, 
artist Harry Holland and computer 
graphics expert Michael Ferraro. All are 
n the Carnegie Mellon Faculty.
The Odyssey" will be presented Nov. 
12-15 and Nov. 18-22 at 8 p.m. 
Matinees are scheduled for Nov. 15 and 22 at 2 p.m.
tall 268-2407for ticket information.
Entertainment Comics 
Classifieds 
Events
Rock superstar Peter Gabriel brings the Arena crowd to its feet
Joe Bob reviews Nuke Talks
By JOE BOB BRIGGS
Drive-In Movie Critic
Heres all the reasons the Nuke Talks broke 
down:
1. Soviet Premier Mikhail Grabachek 
thought people actually READ US News 
and World Report. President Ronnie 
corrected the record and told him that only 
people over the age of 87 read US News and 
World Report, and so Nick Daniloff was not 
just a HOSTAGE. He was a RIDICULOUS 
HOSTAGE. The Geneva Convention on the 
taking of Ridiculous Hostages states very 
clearly that they must either be placed in a 
circus within seven days or released to the 
custody of a badly dressed CBS news crew.
Grabachek agreed, but fell short of 
promising not to take anymore ridiculous 
hostages.
2. Ronnie asked Grabachek if he saw 
"Gorky Park," and then Grabachek tried to 
get it added onto the list of bombs in the 
U.S. nuclear arsenal.
3. Grabachek asked Ronnie if he was still 
buildin killer satellites that could wipe out 
Warsaw. Ronnie's answer: "Naw, just a few 
new cable channels. Maybe TED TURNER 
is doin somethin out there. I don't know. 
Haven't seen him lately, but I'll ask him."
4. Grabachek refused to stop sendin 
acrobats in shiny pants over here.
5. Grabachek asked Reagan whether we're 
gonna let Moses "The Animal" Washington 
out of the Florida State Prison so he can go 
over to Russia. Washington, serving a 187- 
year sentence for a triple murder, seven 
armed robberies, and a hot check he tried to
cash at a Stop-n-Go in Pensacola, has got 
several write-ups in Pravda as a political 
prisoner who wants to continue his work in 
a Communist country. Reagan used the 
weak excuse that "we can't do that cause he 
might come back."
6. Finally, Reagan said, "Mike, how many 
cities can you blow up?"
And, Grabachek said, "Eighty-eight and a 
half."
"What's the half?"
"We took East St. Louis off the list. 
Somebody got there first. How about you?"
"Mike, I wouldn't lie to you. We can only 
blow up 72 measly Communist cities."
"I dont beliff it."
"No, it's true. Really. OK, maybe 75, 76 if 
the boys out in Kansas at the missile shed 
got a good night's sleep."
"Kansas?"
"Whoops! Forget I said that."
"The missile shed's in Kansas?"
"No. It's HUNDREDS of miles from 
Kansas. It's closer to, like, Minnesota than 
Kansas. Or Idaho. But not Kansas."
"I must go back Russia now."
"All right, Mike, well be seein you. No 
surprises now, OK?"
"You kidding? We love Ted Turner. 
Weekly Bulldog Football is OK WITH US."
"You're an animal, Mike. You're an 
animal."
Speaking of animals, one flick you can't 
see in Communist Russia is "Link," the 
finest monkey movie since "Mad Monkey 
Kung Fu." What we got here is Terence
Stamp livin by himself up in a house in 
Scotland, doing some disgusting monkey 
experiments. (They don't say exactly what 
Terence is doing, but Ed Meese should 
probably be told about it.) Then he hires a 
bimbo assistant from one of his college 
classes, thinkin that maybe he can go for the 
groceries once she gets up there, but by that 
time the monkeys are TAKIN OVER, 
wearin all Terence's good clothes, smokin up 
the cigars, and killin the neighbors. There's a 
bunch of plot in here about how monkeys 
are really eight times stronger than us and 
how Jane Goodall went down to Africa and 
lived with the monkeys and found out they 
could be just as mean as we are. And then, 
one night, a monkey decides to do a circus 
trick and Terence disappears.
One breast. Four dead bodies. Two dead 
monkeys. Seven dead sheep. Dead cat. Two 
dead birds. Dead dog. One motor vehicle 
chase, two crashes. One monkey chase. One 
dog chase. Killer attack dogs. Killer attack 
monkeys. Monkey dog-bashing. Microwaved 
telephone. Culturally biased monkey-IQ test. 
Attempted monkey suicide. Exploding 
monkey. Mail slot Fu. Shotgun Fu. 
Monkey Fu. Drive-In Academy Award 
nominations for Terence Stamp, whose 
dying words are "Go away, Im busy"; and 
Elisabeth Shue, the bimbo assistant, for 
reading "Three Little Pigs" to a monkey. 
Parts of this flick are in Monkey Vision. 
Three and a half stars.
Video Release of the Week;
"Rabid" (1976): Back in his early drive-in continued on page D3
By COSTELLO 
Special to the Tartan 
Right from the start, the Peter Gabriel 
concert at the Arena last weekend showed 
signs of an exceptional show. The opening 
act, Youssou, were crowd-stopping. Their 
different blend of African bongos and 
percussion, guitar and trumpet, produced a 
sound that does not fit into any one musical 
category. This unique blend was so effective 
that they were called back for an encore. 
Quite a feat for an opening act 
Like Youssou, Peter Gabriel was not at 
all conservative when it came to performing. 
He was not a man of his late 30s on stage 
Saturday night; in fact his energentic moves 
got the audience shaking the Arena.
Not having toured in four years, Gabriel 
combined his newest album So with the 
classic tracks from his earlier years. Some of 
his songs performed included Red Rain, 
Sledgehammer, Shock the Monkey, and 
Big Time. He managed to get in three 
hours on stage.
The crowd was so enthusiastic that they 
forced a combined song of the warm-up band 
and Gabriel. In Peter's first encore, In Your 
Eyes a few members of Youssou came out 
to assist Gabriel by creating a cool Rasta 
beat and bizarre vocal sounds by Youssou's 
lead singer.
Peter Gabriel's finale was a song dedicated 
to Stephen Biko. His song told of the hard 
times and suppression in South Africa today.
Ex-Genesis member Peter Gabriel rocked
He was so inspirational in his lyrics that by 
the time the song was coming to a close, the 
whole audience rose to their feet, chanting 
and raising their fists as Gabriel left the
the Civic Arena last weekend
stage.
Overall, the concert consisted of a great 
mix of sounds, lasers, and motions. Of 
course, we the audience added just as much
enthusiasm to the audience as the performers 
did themselves. The only misfortune is that 
Peter Gabriel played one night, but like the 
swallows of Capistrano, he'll be back.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanNovember 11, 1986
Forbes Gallery artist's relatives speak out
By CHRISTOPHER GRAY
Special to the Tartan
This past week featured the rockin' hillarity 
of work by Mike Parker and Greg Kessler. 
Neither artist was available for comment, 
but two very reliable sources commented on 
their work: Mrs. Kessler, Greg's mother, had 
this to say of her son:" He's such a nice boy. 
I always knew he'd pull himself out of the 
rock and roll gutter he was wallowing in; 
not that he'll be able to support himself as 
an artist or anything, but at least his haircut 
is normal now."
Asked if Greg showed any artistic prowess 
as a child, Mrs. Kessler replied:" No, but 
Greg always did have a certain rnachoness 
about him that may have developed into 
talent." When asked about the work in her 
son's show, Mrs. Kessler said:" Oh, I think 
it's all quite nice."
None of Mike Parker's relations were 
available for comment, but Anthony Guido, 
of Guido's House of Pizza stopped by the 
gallery and had this to say of Mike's work: 
"This work facinates me with its 
juxtaposition of industrial iconography and 
figurative references. Parker's portrayal of the 
artist as an entity trapped between a craft 
tradition and a mechanized society is 
chilling. The best representation of the artist 
as a veritable whipping boy of the masses 
I've seen this decade. Fascinating."
Greg and Mike's show has deservingly 
proved one of the most popular at Forbes so 
far this fall.
Next Weeks Show
This weeks show at the gallery features 
the nutty work of Laura Karetzky and Darren 
Bevill.
A native of Norwich .Vermont, Laura will 
be presenting a varied selection of drawings 
and paintings. Asked about her artistic 
influences, the 5' 1" Karetzky started to
mention several painters of the Itallian 
Renaisance, but changed her mind and 
asserted:"Daryl Strawberry. Definitely my 
most important influence, though I wish he 
played basketball instead of baseball."
Laura's colorful paintings experiment with 
vivid coloration using the figure and stillife 
for their subjects. Like her favorite 
basketball team, Villanova, her paintings 
surprise the viewer with subtle shifts in their 
strategies. Laura uses glazing in contrast 
with textured paint, to the end of strikingly 
layered color.
The work of Darren Bevill is sort of like 
Daffy Duck holding you at gunpoint . 
Darren will be presenting some drawings and 
other surprises, including an aparrel 
installation of his favorite work clothes. 
Quoth Darren:"I'm still not completely sure 
what I'm putting in, I'll probably just bring 
some stuff over Monday night and nail as 
much as will fit on the wall."
Hailing from Millville , New Jersey, the 
511" Bevill is influenced by varied sources 
including motion pictures and other mass 
media. Darren confessed:" I guess it's pretty
obvious that Jack Nicholson influeces me 
alot, I mean aside from Pat Boone, it's hard 
to think of a more creative public figure."
Darren's work uses many literary themes 
and referances, and often times he writes on 
his drawings as part of the drawing process 
His drawings are highly emotional, contrary 
to their often cartoony subject matter 
creating a disturbing tension in the work.
Darren and Laura's show will run from 
Teusday, November 11 (opening: 7-9 p.m>) 
through Sunday, November 16 and all are invited to attend.
Reader likes hearing Donahue say Stimulation
By JOE BOB BRIGGS
Drive-In Movie Critic 
Communist Alert! Another tough one. The 
luxurious Empire Theater ("ALWAYS 3 
GREAT KUNG FU HITS") on 42nd Street 
in the Apple has been BOARDED UP!!! 
This is the place where they've been runnin 
"Mad Monkey Kung Fu" non-stop for two 
years. This is the site of the American 
premiere of "Lee's Killer Kids," "Little 
Rascals of Kung fu, " "Super Ninjas," and
"18 Chambers of Shaolin." This is the place 
where the Guardian Angels have a 
PERMANENT SENTRY. This is the 
closest thing to a drive-in Manhattan's ever 
had or will have. And its over. Gone. Part of 
Ed Kochmans sorry "urban renewal." 
Remember, without eternal vigilance, it can 
happen here. To discuss the meaning of life 
with Joe Bob, or to get tickets to the world 
premiere of the worlds most enormousLess
We realize that one week isnt a lot of time 
to produce a masterpiece. We do feel that less 
time can force you to be more creative and act 
on instinct.
So write a story or poem and submit it to the 
Tartan/Dossier on a Macintosh disk by 
November 15th. And remember that Napoleon 
took over Europe in a week.
Were just asking for a story.
more.
chorus line, the Dancing Bovina Sisters, at 
Joe Bob's Oct. 10, Texas/OU Weekend Party 
at the Arcadia Theater in Dallas, write Joe 
Bob Briggs, P.O Box 33, Dallas, Texas.
DEAR "SPANKING FRITO": My wife 
and I are answering your ad in the swingers 
magazine. You stated that you are seeking 
"some swingers who like drive-ins and mud 
wrestling." Well that's us. We also enjoy 
streaking and listening to Phil Donahue say 
the word "stimulation."
We have been swinging for eight years 
now. Ethel likes it because she feels it frees 
her mind. I like it because I don't have to 
sleep with Ethel.
This newest erotic thrill for swingers is 
edible underwear. We like to cook our own. 
You really should try our BVD's l'orange, 
our brassiere with garlic sauce, our panties 
jubilee, and our Fruit of the Looms a la 
mode.
We don't like to do anything weird or 
freaky. Once in a while, we indulge in some 
"ballons over Europe," and now and then 
some "scour the bailiwick," and 
occasionally, some "Tasmanian jump-ups," 
but nothing far out or kinky. Why don't we
meet at a "hot sheet" motel and discuss this 
further?  MR. AND MRS. ONE TRACK 
MIND, DALLAS
DEAR MR. AND MIZ MIND: OK, but 
before we meet, please send me a photo of 
the two of you in Buffalo Sandwich position.
DEAR JOE BOB: If you're going to run 
my "Vindictive Wimp Defense League" 
letter, please change the phrase "your 
continued verbal weeny-bashing" to "the 
continued verbal weeny-bashing." Please 
forgive my perfectionism as I forgive your 
imperfectionism.
Kiss kiss, JUSTIN REED, PHOENIX
DEAR WIMP: Are you suggesting I would 
fail to recognize a misplaced weeny-bashing 
modifier?
DEAR MR. BRIGGS: Have you heard that 
the Mormans & the Baptists are co
producing a porno movie? It's called 
"Debbie Does Nothing."  ETAOIN 
SHRDLU, BURLINGAME, CALIF.
DEAR RECENT IMMIGRANT: Yeah, it's continued on page D6
We were looking for new 
shades when I realized it 
was time to do some
thing about my hair. You 
know, my hair was 
driving me crazy. So, we 
cruised right Into Qreat 
Expectations Now with 
my new cut, my hair Is 
driving Bobby crazy
Customers: Sue and Bob, 
Inseparable ever since.
SJSBEf(VKVnmMSPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
TheThe
DESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUTJUST-A-CUT
only $25.000* $13.00only $8.00
Complete with writtenComolet* with shampooCut onlyguaranteeand Wow vie.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED* 
Great Styles Stortati
MUST HAVE COUPON
I----------------TVL.-----------------1
I
SAVE $2.00*o A
PRECISION HAIRCUTM*mc8uRu P1RG 1Gimcoo A lR-81o3
J Offer Expires: ______
V olu 30'1986 arormwPRECISION HMRCUTTERS
PREOSON HAJHCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
j

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 1986The TartanPage D3
Recent rock reaches Laserium
LASERIUM's newest concert heats up Buhl 
Science Center this fall with 14 of the 
hottest songs recorded since 1980.
Openeing Thursday, November 13, 
'Lasertrax' is the first show after 'LASER
IUM '79' to showcase music recently or 
still on Billboards's 'top 40.' Selections in
clude Peter Gabriel's summer release, 
"Sledgehammer," "Money For Nothing" by 
Dire Straits, ZZ TOP's "Delirious" and "I'm 
On Fire" from Bruce Springsteen.
Unlike concept LASERIUMS which
weave subtle, slow-moving patterns, 'Laser
trax' specializes in powerful, spinning ef
fects and complex cartoons. Color TV's, 
microwaves and refrigerators pour out of 
large red spirals just before "Money For 
Nothing" ends. Throughout Gabriel's tune, 
bumper cars crash and muscled forearms be
come pounding sledgehammers. While Sting 
laments the "Fortress Around Your Heart," a 
brick fortress melts into myriad square off 
in "Face To Face" by Pete Townshend.
Call (412)321-5554for more information.
Night Life: Catch some extra z's instead
By ANGELA TAYLOR
Tartan Television Critic
Since Star Trek was bumped off late night 
TV, for college students there hasn't been 
much to stay up for. What can we watch 
after Dave? The CBS Late Movie is over by 
then - a Simon and Simon epsiode is only 
an hour you know. How 'bout a Peoples 
Court spinoff; Superior Court, or that show 
that dares to break social norms The Love 
Connection. Not interested, well why not try 
yet another talk show hosted by a comedian, 
Night Life with David Brenner. Oh yes this 
show comes from the original late-night talk 
show mold - a rockin' band, a little bit of 
monologue, and hip furnishings. But, 
unlike Johnny and Dave, Night Life seems 
especially geared to college students' tastes.
If your looking for funny, you aren't going 
to find it here. It seems that Brenner was a 
lot funnier when he was subbing for Carson. 
On Night Life he appears to be trying hard, 
but not suceeding. Infact, the funniest thing 
in the entire half-hour was a plastic wrap 
commercial.
What makes Brenner so perfect for the
students is his guests. At one-thirty in the 
morning, he does not attract the regular TV 
personality type. His guests are unique, the 
kind that have to be explained in their 
introduction, and many of them are first 
appearances. But the explanations are for the 
insomniacs of Middle America, not college 
students. College students know his guests. 
Classic rockers like The Temptations and 
Ronnie Specter, elitist magicians, not-sopopular-but-good novelists and actors from 
cult films are the kind of people that appear 
on a talk show at one-thirty in the morning, 
and the kind of people that interest most 
college students.
The show could be improved, though, if 
Brenner would leam to ask better questions. 
He asks boring, run-of-the-mill questions 
that we probably already know the answers 
to. That is, those of us who know who the 
guest is.
Although the show appears on NBC here, 
it is a syndicated project. Judging from the 
luke-wam response the show is recieving, 
Trek fans may no longer have to -miss 
dinner.Moneys like the one above take over civilization in Link
Monkey Fu runs rampant in Link
continued from page D1
days David Cronenberg, of "The Fly" fame, 
gave my favorite porno star, Marilyn 
Chambers, her big chance to make a real 
movie you can watch without wearing a 
raincoat. Basically what happens is Marilyn 
gets tossed off a motorcycle, bums up, and 
gets took to the nearest hospital, where the 
doctor is known as the Colonel Sanders of 
plastic surgery. So he takes her thigh skin 
and grafts it on her face and chest, and pretty 
soon she comes down with something that
looks like rabies only its about 10,000 
times worse cause she has this little bloody 
Roto Rooter that comes up out of her armpit 
and slices people up so she can feed on their 
blood ever six hours. She turns most of 
Montreal, Canada, into zombies before her 
boyfriend catches her munching on a mutual 
friend.
Excellent green goo. On-camera body 
count: 17. Breast count: 8. On the 1976 
Drive-In Top Ten List. Four Stars.
Joe Bob says check em out.
ID
AB Lectures, 
Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
BLOOM COUNTYProvided by SDC
\HOPELSSNESS BZGfiN w 
\REARtTS USLYHeAP...Tar sum name's tnwet
STRIPPER IS A TAP TARP/TOPAY,
OKAYSO1 bOTfi UTflB 
SOUSEP WITH MY FUTUAB 
INLAWS LASTN/6Hf~.
I n-t es!SS porr'/
Ill JUST WHIP ONE OUT."
OKAY-AOM-l 
NEEPfiOACr...A 
6A6 ABOUT tiHAT f WHAfS FUNNY r?
..FENOL5..1NK..
CLOCK..IN-LAMS.. 00 
TABLE... IN-LAWS.. HOME.
TWO MINUTES 
lOPBAPUNB.f-GOHOME.^JA\ 1LMy-Inkspots
SIXKWt-snappgr
SR...rtffiX.I HAP AROUHNmrUffT
mmmmeR
SORRY. 
YOU'RE PAST
peWUNB.
WE CUT YOU 
TOPAY.
CH.Fffltt
FtASePl&tf
)w/m"SwUCKMf
I.TM SORRY
pwldpri
HERE'S IWfiYS 
COM/C.
SIR... m 
AN A/WST...
chts ime
Me CRAWL...
Lxxm <m Arm
Mem BULPM, A LAR&6,
fat, hombcy pi&on & 
REACHeP H6H UP ON 
MUM*...
MfK.NO, fTS JUST 7W Sm
tdspnnceopi vadpMo mmr
prJZT' 1 MSSePmPEfiPUNE 
' fOA KXVtY'S COMIC ANP  THer RAN AN AP FOR A
. ^Hoommcwrt. IN tfS PLACE...
\N0 SWEAT. YOU S77U HME 
\LOTSTO UVE FOR.
ItlAmFOA
ANeptm.
...NO ONE
NoncepimPfFFEFBNCe.
Stafw-J 7He& IS NOTHING..
J NO, NOTHING 
PONT WORSE THAT YOU AU. 
JUMP; COULPPOTOME 
OPUS. I THAN PULL MY 
>, COMIC FOR 10CHY
YES'THeRE/S. 
WEOOULP 
LOCk)OUfN 
A CLOSET MTU 
JOAN Rims 
m A PACK OF
mums bns
ALL ETERNITY. 
NOIN COME - BACK IN.
7faid&r if x'H ' Q/ttp cut ajI ttncfyk
*zsutHN, vette?*
'(OUK HGLP.'^I
irYAMxMwme
WJiimvmm
mmmssmmarnsmm
MiAMMJE... STEM MILAS 
LE6AL CAREER HAS SPEP 
SMOOTHCY AL0N6...
\CtfARLY, THOUGHT STEM, IT 
vdo pewr ex me d sd1tdl 
50WES AJRWftRP CAReeR-MSe.
ANP ASTHEQEFENPANT, 
1ST MB APP ANOTHER 
REASON...
*.ANP THAT, MOP 
's. FOLKS, IS WHY > YOU SHOULP FIHP , MY CLIENT INNO\ CENT OF KtLUHG 
HtSTAXAUPHDA.
ICOULP
PIMP.LTHANK W 
VERY MUCH.
I flCW, ITS ^EAU-V^ 
VOBLe OF Au. OF
You TO 7>c> -7Hr<L^
i <*e*N n 
PMEftCM *
UKG TH fj 
KFZlCkN<> I 
Kio<et> off] 
t-AWfcS um K&, 
vUr us.-ciA
pw8r
SCRVFCeS.
VUVE^.
1HANE OCT TO FINP 
ANOTHER Wf10 MAKE A BUCKowe a than eerrm murpmRS ANP CHiLP AW&KS 
OFF We HOOK...
SAY / UfHY PONT
You ter ecpn 
HEfUOONINO ? 
YEAH/THATS 
THZTKK6T /
^ilT nouubh'r rf~$E\ 
k WcQElKaoOCJtVe
TO EMb PTARjmib 
yj/A/ THE US. F/KST? _y

---------------------------------------------------

by Nadini Sudd, Ltd
Beeise op Tm j
TegfOD FOE. i.655 TWAM, 
SMau. U3E saj, msreeiCA^ 
STRips 70 IM THZT&BUILer> rey i& aoo & urne, hdu
sptce iRHT. E RTTNY HnOKaM
LET'S yNavN n:nN8njv/ kk 
DAR kJ , 'aGW2 cJ*c1Wus4 cRAp... Uu-5 
vomi*J6 <Sc7f c&jo&eo? 
ujofjj! That*> Geexr /JusfLisrtfAj TOTH'S....
M23G0?cw p^sE/ 
^ -ttij fiooT-me8 UJCXJCD Cll^e 70
THA/gfc SUDO FW2- 
GEackxjSl/ SuGrtiTr/MG H/S 
tnwet, &jf Doe To His. 
SuDDe^J ANO UNRXJVKt^r^ 
DiSpcSAL, MEXT J<
/N 7W'^ spTT UJ/LL Appe^ 
TdevdcMo weoj >VOO sp&r1QcuU\&. corsie &mAMGM3: 
comic STRip vioccc cooer "EP*eO omC, tUM+g -n HHW?*.* 4wo NMcy fusmT me *f
TaHe2 chilo, apuv Oow'7 **i** *"0
by Kurt Shaw
by Jim Voorhees
r&O T61HI1 A0R55 > AMD &CT MY INVENTION. TAKE IT TO AMtRlCftV mow hurry e >
r YOUR TfKlE ISUP.MY 
DEAR l1, Is9C arng iMU 
vtng at yMN b6d yVyhCC
/SUHHKEEP \ Qotcr. COME TO MC MOW-- V Quickly \A
' WHAT ARE YCXJ N. 50 scared of f, .COME 0M-- WE LU 7 GO TO THE --y
-JMNA,
' POLICE, VOU BOMB St* IT J THERE* NO .TIME LEK.'
ST WHAT >Mpl.b you?y 9 MpssNEAT WCtn!
[WHAT'e: 5AID 
I BE THERE I 35V 86
OH HOHO/HOW > lORRECT YOU APE 
HERR DOCHTOR'
Ed BaranoskiM*0AT /aJ 
Co*oprt Dr  ufi.AimUtTY
VboP TUtM* 9OMflaDV uf T/*r lOtltP HA^fA sense 
o t4u*o&.
by Jeff DiehlCMUtantsby Translucia Baboon & Klutz Kaboom
IN A DE5PE-R47 Mt*E, M60 THf krRT/t MOWS' HAS rAKi+J T/MMT T* <JW Tc THf TOP Op HAHHfZSHCt**'! Tout* AMD THE jXtTAMTJ WW OM________
STi w/jw4oo ootiu'T.S3** t-, H04O dw - H 7 W4Xi BtCeOK'* JT
AUDZ'UUT YDy^^SGW CT PiAr ptvou wh P |Vjy1 HAC / --V
H& Koctfr Cene (XT'. 8/4 W, J><f ** W TM3 HIOKXiT tvCf >4MWIW A rmmrTWt.cwQ'Hfix'VTS^uO' TU|BB*TS MwBi* AY RAC AWT Q*r#oAomkiWtWf "ph BKff)*, 'ElTHe*  7)r re J4vt ACkM ^Tj tou!, e?... =g-^IT /J AT TWJ PO/WT 7Wr A*eojy*r re ue SSe <w ri***/
H.tfi'n) MAfytc'O^r,^1 JO Tffr TO JCO*tXif liJCiUClM* W4MTJfwt BfrrfU SM~^rGtO <**! HDUI7
(wotnctmy
Bor jooaj, r/*#-rr eGll rxe tdpp nb 
TuDDo in ms mGB4 Gottr ***y /
rftGor me,by Kneep Debends
2/1 th Cordi* t, oj( cf ^ASC 5o, ? ~
t^iwry 5ei^ fc*tr I j Hjnk CMO'sfTiVolooi sll'y. I i a, dw<&.
A Look Within
/o<* low h PH* 3* ^to b*>ki 6o torToo "to onice
bio. hw i wtcA < f^'St ?a 3fV.^( aiA o-tl
J k me iV\ JoiijiT die*j 
ore or* or /< oot
b*r b/v^er eir plms f>r S, cK/el kwiW Ai/Jrefcfvig, 
(vy^e ondi fifi. Ciukt i\ t#iMdle oT  ci af'ptUit kpf**erce.
T HAve/TouesfiSii 
our 7JV/S H>mnsr>r
^ -W)A/Q.
WfVDA
rrscooL,
ZuriNOIMS
toSN'T
TmjIMHZVoyages of the Stellar Lemming
Pisioiu'toM VJpAj^ 4ii6<STOP>.y -so^ac ..
wGek Cpit - Vt^por^l ^bWV.oo) (wVKjaoo ute< 
pa!> ''2coocRtt>H) (l? Wcr)^ E'VRio^ 
C'&zp^v
D>5VLfe^^0<^ AW; i\<i*.-Hney ouD k> o>t 
ibcal-Acifftto ,lau. <30 'kfne-^'YV.rrV-D ok>
IkA^ AW. IkcR Wy owko -W Uy&5<f CoR5ca.l-ro
ton otbyA O'Vftd^.Ri^k (^dn>W
loot p.Wi cWoot . !)( Wvt'f 010^) J
The planet and surrounding 
space of Ceti Alpha VI suffered a 
time/space distortion when Captain 
(now Ensign) Spinrod Bastable
of the Polity Battle Cruiser Quick 
Draw McGraw engaged the ship's 
jumpdrives while still in port. Ensign 
Bastable is resting comfortably at 
the Port Montoblan Psychiatric 
Institute.AWTtr*r/
Capt.Bastable and Honor Guard
Authorities report severe losses of 
continuity and credibility In the 
Heeled are

---------------------------------------------------

Page D6The TartanNovember 11, 1986
Joe Bob to show his putter at Celebrity Golf Tournament
continued from page D2
on double bill with "Deep Breathing."
DEAR JOE BOB: Please send me your 
news letter. I could also use five bucks if 
you got it or any spare change, (came in 
envelope addressed to Dr. Gene Scott)  
CARL LA FONG, SANTA CLARA, 
CALIF.
DEAR CARL: I won't send money to 
ANYBODY until they've been taught the
drive-in gospels and forced to listen to me 
play the saxophone.
DEAR JOE BOB: I've been putting 
together some names for a Pete Moss 
Celebrity Invitational Pro-Am Golf 
Tournament. I was wondering what's your 
handicap, aside from the obvious, and would 
you mind being paired with Kimberley 
Katastrophe in the mixed doubles event?
I'm having some trouble though. Believe it
or not there is only one Putt-Putt Golf 
Course in the Bay Area and that's in 
Redwood City. Why, when I used to go to 
the Jersey shore there used to be Putt-Putt 
Golf Courses every other block. Of course 
the Jersey shore ain't the Bay Area. In any 
case I want to asure you that Kimberley is a 
very proper lady and has had her picture in 
People magazine a couple of months ago 
when they did a thing on SF messengers.
Thank you for your consideration. 
The Original Hot Dog Shop
1
00
Sun - Thurs 
......... .Fr^-_Sat
off Any Combination 
Steak Sub 
w/coupon
9 am - 4:30 am 9 am - 6 am
(whole subs only)
(Must present coupon before ordering.)
Cheeseburger Platter
Fries and Small Coke 
Only
(Must present coupon before ordering.)
...........
DOMINOS PIZZA INTRODUCES THE *.99 SIX PACK
Receive a Six Pack of Coke for$.99 With Any 2 Item or More Pizza.
LIMIT 1 SIX PACK PER.2-ITEM OR MORE PIZZA. 
OFFER EXPIRES NOV. 30, 1986 
Not Valid With Any Other Offer 
No Coupon Necessary
681-1707
315 N. Craig Street
521-2970
623 Greenfield Avenue
4g.
DOMINOSPIZZADELIVERS*FREE.
to
PETE MOSS, SAN FRANCISCO
DEAR MOSSMAN: I'd be happy 
exhibit my putter in Redwood City.
Drama Student wins 
national talent award
PITTSBURGHJulia Collins, a senior 
majoring in drama at Carnegie Mellon Uni
versity, has been awarded an $8,000 theater 
scholarship by the Princess Grace Found
ationU.S.A. She received her award from 
Prince Albert of Monaco at an Oct. 18 cere
mony in Dallas.
Collins was one of 13 young artists se
lected nationwide to win a foundation grant 
for 1986-87. The awards are given annually 
to students showing talent in theater, music 
and dance.
Collins' roles in Carnegie Mellon produc
tions have included Hermia in "A Midsum
mer Night's Dream," Dot/Marie in "Sunday 
in the Park with George" and the Beggar Wo
man in "Sweeney Todd." A singer as well as 
an actress, she has won competitions spon
sored by the Music Teachers' National Assoc
iation and the National Association of 
Teachers of Singing. She is a native of Pit
man, N.J.
Collins is the second Carnegie Mellon 
drama student honored by the Princess Grace 
Foundation since the grant program was 
started three years ago. Natalie Carter, a 
1985 graduate of the University, was selected 
as a scholarship winner for 1984-85, and 
then was one of two outstanding first-year 
winners to be given a Princess Grace 
statuette award the following year. Carter is 
acting at Center Stage in Baltimore.
DEMO STUDIO
fcjo*ty Recording You Con Afford
JACKRWM
1052 FronWn Drive 
Bethel Park. PA 15102 
(412) 835^398
NEW YORK
THANKSGIVING 
ROUND TRIP
VIAUSAiR
Depart Pittsburgh Nov 26,5:10pm 
Depart Newark Nov 30,5:40pm
$118 *
?Seats are limited 
?Prices subject to change
TRAVEL ENTERPRISE, INC. 
366-7855
S*T TuluiTsG RuTm cicuTl *T Tu8iEiR1*o RGu LcOTTD/usRL iolPuT Cl...
The Literary Cat Bookstore 
used books for the finicky reader
1505 Asbury Place 
Sq. Hill 15217 
422-0280MB .  !

---------------------------------------------------

Attention: CMU Artists and Craftpersons
*
An arts and crafts sale will be held in Skibo Lobby on December 2, 3, and 4 for the 
Christmas season. If you would like to sell your work, please fill out the form 
below and return it to the Skibo Information Desk by November 28.
--Sponsored by Student Activities
Return by November 28
Name
Phone _____________ Address
Craft
Table(s) # _____________________Chair(s) #
t ory\ , \ T
A Vj/ -Hi*# 1
. I \ij*r
Jc., 'f/UAii*', ittL 
1  I dKGeRs , uJfrvX* I l/Urd,
|o -fifc VwfeVwei^U tf/v UrWt Auf ^^<ru>U I WbW^
7VWUAHJL, <JU</ 7
fWK*,, I Tprftt fo MpvLRLl, 
jJjvuX'
'XaUu^ tistufc ifcr 
io * Urf ^
You have the opportunity to meet 
lots of people who could call the 
above story their own.
Please join us on Sunday evenings 
at 7 in Porter Hall 225c.
Attend a G.A.L.A. meetingto talk, or just to listen.
\ Carnegie \Meilon
CMU Gay and Lesbian Alliance 
M Here lor Good."
FOBoa 172, CMU .PA 13213
9mwn
Fmdoi fcy fcrftat Activities fw
Carnegie Tech Radio Club
** Meeting **
f
Thursday, November 14 
v at 7pm in Wean 5403 >
Scheduled
Elections!!
Slow-Scctn TV: The Chcdienger 
and Voyager Projects
Everyone is invited to attend

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm on 
Monday, December 3, in his office, 602 
Warner Hall. Students who wish to meet with 
the president should telephone his secretary 
at 268-2200 to set up an appointment.Library Schedule:
Hunt Library: Monday - Thursday, 8 am - 3 
am; Friday, 8 am - midnight; Saturday, 9 am - 
midnight; Sunday, noon - 3 am.
Engineering and Science Library: Monday - 
Thursday, 8 am - midnight; Friday, 8 am - 6 
pm; Saturday, 9 am - 9 pm; Sunday, 10 am - 
midnight.
Mellon Institute Library: Monday - Friday,
8:30 am - 5 pm: Saturday and Sunday, closed.
Audio-Visual Services: Monday -Thursday,
8:30 am - 11 pm; Friday, 8:30 am - 5 pm; 
Saturday, noon - 5 pm; Sunday, noon - 11 
pm.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 
pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at 
noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more 
information call 681 -3181.The Odyssey is presented by Carnegie 
Mellon Drama from November 12 through 
November 15 and November 18 through 
November 22 at 8 pm in the Kresge Theatre. 
Matinees are scheduled on November 15 and 
22 at 2 pm. To order tickets call the 
Carnegie Mellon Drama box office at 268- 
2407. Monday through Friday, noon to 5 pm.Hunt Institute exhibits "Fields of Grass" 
from November 12 through February 28. Of 
all plants, grasses are by far the most 
important to man. Overlooked by
manyartists as a source of inspiration for 
paintings, grasses are depicted here in a 
variety of techniques by a number of different 
artists from the 16th century to the present. 
These artworks include decorative as well as 
purely technical works. The exhibition is on 
display in the Penthouse of the Hunt Library 
from 8:30 am to noon and 1 pm to 5 pm, 
Monday through Friday. For more 
information, call 268-2434.
Buhl Science Center. Laserium.' Journey 
to an energetic and colorful world where 
blazing lights and magical images glow and 
gyrate to music by rocks most spectacular 
artists in Laserium, presented live under the 
stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday through 
Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For current 
concerts call 321 - 
5554.
"Lasertrax" Laserium sizzles at Buhl. 
Lasertrax selections include Peter Gabriels 
summer release, "Sledgehammer", "Money For 
Nothing" by Dire Straits, ZZ TOPs "Delirius" 
and "Im On Fire" from The Boss, Bruce 
Springsteen and more. Lasertrax is performed 
in the Science Center's planetarium, 
Thursdays and Fridays at 8 pm and 9:15 pm 
and Saturdays, 3 pm, 8 pm and 9:15 pm 
through November 13.
"Color," nineteen do-it-yourself modules 
explore the mysteries behind everyday color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
"Bio Comer," interact with newly-hatched 
chicks and ducklings -- new ones hatching 
weekly. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
"Image Imagination," hands-on modules 
explore amazing images -- let your 
imagination run wild. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 4300.
"Foucault Pendulum." displays proof of 
Earth 's rotation. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm -
5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more informat ion call 321-4300.
The Right Moves." You're the star 
performer in Buhl's new action-packed exhibit 
exploring the body in motion! Exciting 
hands-on activities  Momentum machine, 
Video Strobe, Pitch-It and more -- let visitors 
investigate the mechanics of motion "step by
step." Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
Miniature Railroad and Village. A Buhl 
tradition that has delighted visitors for 
generations! Trains, boats and dozens of tiny 
animations keep audiences spellbound! This 
season's exhibit sets the turn of the century 
countryside in each of the four seasons - 
- don't miss it at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday 
through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 
and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more 
information call 321-4300.Pittsburgh Playhouse Jr. Children's Theatre. Jack and the Beanstalk. Do you 
know what A-D-V-E-N-T-U-R-E spells? Well, 
that's what happens to Jack when he climbs 
the beanstalk! See Jack battle the Giant! See 
the Giant's wacky wife! See the living Harp 
that comes to Jack's aid! It's high flying 
adventure with a lot of surprises at 11 am and 
2:30 pm, Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, Sundays, 
through November 16.
Events
Tuesday
Movies
Hamlet, starring Anastasia Vertinskaya. 
Impressive version of Shakespeare's play 
Boris Pasternak did the translation and Dmitri 
Shostakovich is credited with the music. 
Don't miss this one. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept of Architecture Lecture.
Professor S. Gulzar Haider, Carleton 
University, Ontario, speaks at 8 pm in WeH 
7500.
Dept. of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Professor John D. Perkins, 
University of Sydney, speaks on "Robust and 
Efficient Strategies for Process Simulation 
and Control" at 11 am in DH room 1112. 
Coffee and doughnuts are served at 10:45 am 
in conference room, DH 1102.Duquesne Business Forum. Robert M. 
Wasieko, chief executive officer for 
Coachmen Recreational Vehicle Company, 
speaks on "Challenges Facing American 
Management in the 1990's" at 6 pm in the 
Moot Court Room, Duquesne University 
School of Law. Music Department of Music 
Student Recital. Robert James, trumpet, 
performs at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, 
CFA.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.English Table. The ESL (English as a 
Second Language) Center sponsors an English 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.Educational Action on Central America and the Carnegie Mellon Peace Alliance sponsor a slide show and 
discussion with Fletcher McNeil, area high 
school teacher and representative of CISPES 
(Committee In Solidarity with the People of 
El Salvador), at 7:30 pm in Gregg Hall, PH 
100. For more information call x2957.
Wednesday
Movies
Head, starring Hie Monkees, Teri Garr, 
Frank Zappa and Jack Nicholson. The film 
debut of the TV rock group The Monkees with 
a wild assortment of gags, old film clips etc. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.Apocalypse Now. Sponsored by the 
Army ROTC special interest house. Donner 
TV room at 7:00, admission is free.
Lectures
Dept, of Architecture Seminar. Henry 
Piscotta speaks on "Bulk Graphic Data: 
Building Surveys and Fire Insurance" at 12:30 
pm in CFA 206.Carnegie Mellon Visiting Writers Series. Charles Baxter, fiction, speaks on 
his work at 8 pm in the Adamson Wing. For 
more information call x2850.
Workshops
Career Library Tips. Learn "real world" 
information that can help you with your 
career choice and get inside tips on 
identifying and researching job leads at 5 pm 
in Warner Hall room 19.
Music
Dept, of Music Lecture. Dr. Stephen 
Carlton, Music Historian, speaks on "Franz 
Schubert and Wilhelm Mueller: The
Synthesis of Romantic Poetry and Music, Part 
II: Winterreise" at 7:30 pm in the Alumni
Concert Hall, CFA.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. Entrepreneur's Day: How to Start Your
Own Business. The third annual
Entrepreneur's Day conference is held at the 
David L. Lawrence Convention Center to 
provide successful entrepreneurs an 
opportunity to share practical advice with 
those interested in starting a business. 
Workshop topics include: Business
Planning, Raising Money, Franchising, 
Accounting, Marketing, Turning Hobbies Into 
Businesses, Service, Legal Issues and Retail. 
For more information call Lisa Manfred at 
565-6034.
Thursday
Movies
A Tale of Two Cities, starring Ronald 
Coleman, Edna May Oliver and Basil 
Rathbone. Excellent film version of Charles 
Dickens' tale set during the French 
Revolution. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.The Godfather, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm and 9 pm. Admission $1.
Music
Dept. of Music Junior Recital.
Suzanne Doremus, flute, and Suzanne 
Schelkopf, oboe, perform at 8 pm in the 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Friday
Movies
Nothing In Common, starring Tom 
Hanks, Jackie Gleason and Eva Maria Saint. 
Funny film about a son who begins to learn 
about his relationship with his parents. Some 
fine performances, especially from Hanks. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm 
and 11:50 pm. Admission $2.95.Brazil, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. Admission $1.
Music
Dept. of Music Junior Recital.
Joseph Mancuso and Lorrin Vessella, voice, 
perform at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, 
CFA.
Saturday
Movies
About Last Night, starring Rob Lowe 
Demi Moore, Elizabeth Perkins and Jim 
Belushi. Very funny film exploring the
battle of the sexes. Based on David Mamet's 
plot "Sexual Perversities in Chicago." Demi 
Moores performance is occasionally
excellent. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm,
9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
FIX, sponsored by SDC Films. DH 2210 at
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Music
Dept, of Music Junior Recital. Donna
Ceparano and Lisa Peters, voice, perform at 8 
pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Sunday
Movies
Jesus Christ, Superstar, starring Ted 
Neeley, Carl Anderson and Yvonne Elliman. 
Vibrant film version of the Webber-Rice rock 
opera. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.Europe in Film Series: "M", starring
Peter Lorre. Based on a true set of events, 
Lang's portrait of a child murderer in preWorld War II Germany evokes the killer's 
psychotic, claustrophobic world. Adamson 
Wing, BH at 3 pm. Admission is free.Splash, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Music
Dept, of Music Alumni Recital. John 
Falcone, bassoon, and Michael Nigrin, bass, 
perform at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, 
CFA.
Monday
Movies
Boys in the Band, starring Kenneth 
Nelson, Leonard Frey and Cliff Gorman. Film 
version of Matt Crowley's Broadway play 
about a birthday party in which nine men 
show up: eight are gay and one says he isn't. 
Caustic and funny. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Music
Duquesne University PercussionEnsemble performs at 8 pm in the School 
of Music Recital Hall, Duquesne University. 
For more information call 434-6080.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event in The Tartan, send it to ACME / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus 
mail to the above address or drop it off at 
5017 Forbes Ave (The house between Delta 
Upsilon and ATO).
Please include the following information 
when submitting events: Title of event,
sponsor, brief description, location, date, and 
time. In addition, include the name and 
phone number of the person submitting the 
entry; this information will, be used only to 
confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any Event listing. In 
addition, it reserves the right to edit or omit 
any listing for publication.
Classified ads are taken in our office. Skibo 
Rm 50, onlw and will not be taken over the 
phme.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless 
otherwise noted.
Deadline for ACME submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next 
weeks issue.
Send submissions to ACME, c/o Public Relations

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 1986The TartanPage 11
poller Speaks: Divestiture - An Opposing View
By JACK L. POLLER
Tartan Contributing Editor 
One of the most common proposals of 
how to battle the war against apartheid is to 
apply economic pressure on the South 
African government. In order to achieve this
goal, many organizations, including the 
Carnegie Mellon Students Against Apartheid 
(SAA), have set a subgoal to force 
companies that operate in South Africa to 
either follow the Sullivan Principles or to 
cease operations in South Africa. That this 
subgoal will have an effect upon both the 
government and population of South Africa 
is not in question. What is questionable, 
however, is the method in which SAA is
choosing to achieve this goal-the 
divestiture, by CMU, of interest in those 
companies who do not follow the Sullivan 
Principles.
SAA wishes CMU to force companies to 
follow the Sullivan Principles. In order for 
the unversity to force a company to do the 
university's bidding, it must exert 
considerable influence over that company. 
Since all company stockholders have a vote 
in company operations, stockholders can 
direct the company to cease South African 
operation or to follow the Sullivan 
Principles. This is applying the democratic 
voting principle. If the company refuses, 
stockholders have the ability to change the 
company administration to one which will 
follow the stockholders' desire. The 
stockholder, just like the voter, holds much 
power and influence over the behavior of the
company.
Therefore, if the university seeks to change 
a company's operation procedures, it should 
be a stockholder of that company. As a 
stockholder, the university wil have a voice 
in company operations. If the university is 
not a stockholder, the voice of the unversity 
will not carry.
SAA proposes the divestiture of CMU 
from those companies who operate in South 
Africa and do not follow the Sullivan 
Principles. Here again is a demonstration of 
the democratic principle of voting. The 
students of this university have a say in the 
operations of the university. Yet, by asking 
the university to divest, they are asking the 
university to give up its say in the 
operations of those companies.
If CMU divests itself from the companies 
concerned, it will lose all ability to exert
influence over company operations. Not 
even the sale of the company stock will have 
an effect. Companies do not care who owns 
their stock, as long as it is owned by 
someone. If the university sells its shares of 
stock in a company, it must have someone 
to whom it sells that stock. For each seller 
there must be a buyer. Therefore divestiture 
destroys the universitys ability to exert 
influence over companies.
Instead of proposing divestiture, SAA 
should propose the opposite-that CMU 
increase its interest in those companies 
operating in South Africa. In this manner, 
CMU will be able to exert more influence 
over these companies. SAA should also 
propose that the Board of Trustees become 
more vocal in its efforts to force the 
adherence of the Sullivan Principles. The 
will help SAA obtain its goals.
Column
Letters Cont.:
Campus Ministry Encourages Observance of Fast
continued from page 10
more. Protection against all of these diseases 
costs approximately $5 per child. Yet less 
than 20% of the developing world's children 
are immunized each year.
The CMU Campus Ministry Council with 
the endorsement and support of the Student 
Senate is sponsoring a "Fast for a World 
Harvest" on Thursday, November 20th. 
All CMU students, faculty and staff are 
encouraged to participate in the Fast.
The Fast has two purposes: first, to be an 
educational event allowing the CMU 
community to both learn about the pervasive 
character of hunger and malnutrition in many 
parts of the world (including Pittsburgh) and 
to experience in a small way what hunger
feels like; second, to raise funds to support 
hunger relief and self-help development 
projects both locally and abroad.
How will the Fast work? Persons will 
give up one or more meals on the Thursday 
before Thanksgiving, November 20th. The 
money saved will then be donated to hunger 
relief or development agencies. Students on a 
Meal Plan can register to participate in the 
Fast at the tables found in the Grey Matter 
of Skibo on Monday, Wednesday or Friday 
from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m., November 
3rd to 19th or at other times at the Contract 
Dining Office in Skibo. Other students not 
on a Meal Plan, as well as faculty and staff, 
can simply pledge the amount they would 
ordinarily spend for one or more meals on
November 20th. Information about how to 
fast safely is available at the registration 
tables.
Those participating in the Fast will be 
able to designate how their contribution will 
be divided between local and international 
hunger agencies. The two local agencies to 
be assisted are the Rainbow Kitchen and the 
Jubilee Kitchen. The international agency to 
be supported is Oxfam America. Information 
about the specific programs of these agencies 
is available at the registration tables.
The Fast will be broken with a celebration 
(a "break-fast") on Thursday evening 
beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Ballroom of 
Skibo. At this time the total amount raised 
and pledged will be announced along with
the amount to be distribued to the three 
agencies.
Hunger, malnutrition and social and 
economic deprivation are constant realities 
for a vast proportion of the world's peoples. 
The Fast is an opportunity for you to 
symbolically share in the suffering of these, 
our brothers and sisters in the human family, 
and to concretely act to both relieve their 
immediate needs and to help them develop 
their own resources toward self-sufficiency. 
As we anticipate the Thanksgiving 
celebration of the earth's abundant 
fruitfulness, come and join in the "Fast for 
a World Harvest."
Rev. Dr. Jim Miller 
Convener
CMU Campus Ministry CouncilSenator Lonsky Expounds Views on Tartan News
Editor:
I would like to respond to the article 
'Senate Rules Committee Gets Chairman" 
in the last issue of The Tartan. As a 
Senator, I feel that Kevin Poecking was one
sided and sensationalistic in his report on the 
Senate meeting.
Mr. Poecking has chosen to explode minor 
incidents of Senate members and offers little 
explanation for his emphasis. Taking these 
incidents (which are a small part of the 
larger, productive meeting) out of context 
Mr. Poecking offers readers of The Tartan a 
slanted depiction of Senate and its members. 
His creative writing style should be limited 
to the weekly, national "newspapers" found 
at supermarket checkout counters.
For example, Mr. Poecking spends an 
entire paragraph on the simple fact that 
"Senate deliberated for ten minutes in 
executive session and chose Senator Todd 
Giles as Chairman for the new Rules 
Committee. Opposing Giles was Senator 
Allen Greenberg." But where does Seth 
Kaplans off-the-cuff remark that Allen was 
too controversial" have any relevance to the 
meeting? If Seth said "Allen, both of you are 
qualified, you just have not had enough 
exposure on Senate," would Mr. Poecking 
have though this relevant? And, if not, why?
Let me get to the point. Face it, I have a 
complaint to lodge with Mr. Poecking about 
his personal attack on me. My name is 
mentioned in two instances in the article, 
hoth of which were described incompletely, 
and in my opinion, unfavorably. In the first 
incident Mr. Poecking writes: "Senator Peter 
Lonsky, recommending to hold the elections 
ln Skibo as in the past, filibustered for over 
five minutes." First, if my speech in favor 
f holding elections in Skibo was considered 
an obstructionist tactic Mr. Poecking has no 
conception of the context in which I spoke. I
could not obstruct the legislative action on 
the motion that was being deliberated - 
where to hold the Senate elections; the 
Senate would vote on this matter - after I 
had spoken. One other thing, my argument 
was obviously not persuasive enough, as my 
recommendation was not heeded, perhaps I 
should have argued a little longer?
In his mention of the quorum incident, Mr. 
Poecking clearly painted by picture as a "bad 
guy." Mr. Poecking first states that 
"throughout the meeting many Senators left 
to attend important details (my italics)." 
What details? How does he know they are 
important? He clearly sets me up for a fall. 
Obviously I didn't have an important reason 
for leaving; I asked the other Senator to 
leave with me so that we could party, right? 
Mr. Poecking mentions all of the Senate 
members that left, but what about the 
members that weren't there to begin with? I 
left the meeting, not "promptly" after Leslie 
Frank, but after I felt that if I could end the 
discussion on the important issues (which 
would be to the benefit of the students and 
colleges whose representatives were not 
there) I should.
I did not make a motion to adjourn the 
meeting because it would have, most likely, 
failed (as previous and subsequent motions 
to adjourn have). I was using a tool of
Brief Comment on 
the SAA Shanty
Editor:
Quote: "This is a symbol of conditions in 
which South African blacks are forced to live 
under Apartheid...."
Gee, isnt it enlightening to know that 
black South Africans enjoy boom boxes and 
Hackey-Sack.
Daved Yu
Senate parliamentary procedure, which does 
not allow Senate to operate without a 
quorum, to postpone discussion until the 
next meeting. Also, does Mr. Poecking 
realize that I was the last Senator to leave 
the meeting? Why do the people who slipped 
out silently, and during a meeting with 
almost total attendance escape his scrutiny? I 
stayed the entire meeting; when I left the
meeting ended.
I encourage Mr. Poecking to refine his craft 
as a journalist and strive to report the truth, 
but I'm afraid that if his current articles are 
considered the "be all and end all" of Senate, 
a lot of people are mislead when reading The 
Tartan.
Peter Lonsky 
H&SS Senator
The Tartan
Olve Peersen
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Andrew RobitshekManaging EditorBusiness Manager
Drue MillerJoshua M. LevineBruce Kasrel
A ews EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
John FriedmannRuth MatsumuraAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawAlbrecht T. PowellLisa Zito
Art EditorProduction ManagerAd Manager
John BabichKathryn A. SitterDave Levy
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerTartan Assistant
Vijay ReddyJack L. PollerNeil Greenhlum
Contributing EditorContributing EditorContributing Editor
fhe Tartan is the official student newspaper 
of Carnegie Melton University It is a weekly 
newspaper, published each Tuesday during the fall 
and spring semesters by students at no cost to 
members of the university community. It is printed 
by Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year. The 
Editorial appearing at the beginning to the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board. Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan editorial board or staff Letter* to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the University community, 
A letter intended for publication must be
signed and indude the writer's address and 
phone number tor verification. Names win be 
withheld upon request The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter or column. 
Copyright 1986 by The Tartan The editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for publication 
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan
Box 17
Carnegie Melton Univ.
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved Library of Congress ISSN #: 0690-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

First Birthday
November 15 - 16 1986
Scotthd
Yard

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Audition Announced for Music Troop
By JENNI SEVERA \ Auditions will be conducted on a first arranging; participate in choral, band, jazz So, if your a dramat or a desiger, r
Tnrtnn Staffwriter \ rnmp firct OAn/A Kocic onH thA T\f*AOAntotiAnc onH Hon/'n fnlrA  a,.,   __.i_a.__ _ _.. r Torton Staffwriter
Interested in a career in show biz? Of 
course you are! So pull out those dancing 
shoes, type up those resumes\ and get ready 
to head over to Point Park College on 
November 23!
Why, you ask? '
Because talent scouts frohi Busch 
Entertainment Corporation are going to be 
holding auditions from 12 noon to 5:00 
p.m. as part of a 27 city searclVx for 
entertainers, technicians, and stage manage
That's why!
Joseph G. Piczi, Entertainment Director for 
BEC and his staff are looking for talented 
young singers, dancers, muscians, 
atmosphere entertainers, stage managers, 
and light/sound and backstage technicians to 
fill the more than 300 positions at the 
companys two entertainment parksBusch 
Gardens, the Old Country in Williamsburg, 
Virginia and Bush Gardens, the Dark 
Continent in Tampa, Florida.
The shows at both parks have styles from a 
Broadway-style musical review, to 
contemporary and country productions, to 
German and Italian Folk songs and dances.
Performers must be at least 18, have a 
typed resume detailing related work 
experience ready at the auditions, and be 
available for full time seasonable 
employment.
The Old Country in Williamsburg has a 
six-month season from April to October. 
But three month summer contracts are 
available. The Dark Continent in Tampa has 
three and six month contracts.
come, first serve basis, and the presentations 
should be limited to two minutes. However, 
performers should be prepared to present 
additional material upon request.
Singers should prepare two songsa balladstyle vocal and an upbeat tempo number. No 
a cappella is permitted.
Dancers should wear appropriate, 
comfortable dance clothing and be ready to 
perform a two-minute prepared piece with 
cassette accompaniment.
Muscians should bring their instruments 
and accessories, play a prepared solo piece, 
and be ready to demonstrate sight-reading 
ability.
Atmosphere entertainers, including actors, 
actresses, comedians, jugglers, and 
magicians should perform a two-minute, 
prepared comedic routine and be ready to 
demonstrate improvisational ability.
Stage managers, lighting/sound technicians 
and back stage technicians should have a 
broad working knowledge of all aspects of 
theatre production and bring a typed resume 
of technical experience.
Busch Gardens performers gain invaluable 
experience and can determine if their long 
term career goals are in show business, 
according to Piczi.
Everyone watches The Cosby Show, 
right? Well, do you remember Alvin, 
Saundra's male chauvinist pig of a 
boyfriend? He (Blair Underwood) started out 
as a Busch Gardens performer!
In addition to exposure, entertainers can 
take advantage of free classes in all forms of 
dance, vocal instruction, and instrumental
and dance concerts; and take part in every 
stage at theatrical productions.
musician
or mathetmatician, physicist or facist, come 
on down, you may be famous.
Fun Exchange Program
By DANIELA CRAMER
Special to the Tartan 
Picture yourself rubbing elbows with the 
Bavarians at the Oktoberfest Now imagine 
riding a moped through 
the beautiful Greek 
isles. Does skiing turn 
you on? You could test 
your skills on the 
majestic Swiss alps.
These were a few of the 
many fun, unforgettable 
experiences that I had 
whil part of CMU's 
exchange program.
The EPFL program is 
defmitly one of the 
most fun and rewarding 
programs offered at 
CMU. Besides being a 
once-in-a-life chance to 
travel funly through 
continental Europe at 
almost rediculously low student rates, it is 
also a valuable lesson in relating to people 
of different cultures. Can you imagine trying 
to explain a jelly bean in a different 
language? Or how to toast the perfect 
marshmallow at a campfire on the on shores 
of Lake Geneva?
During one year of study in Lausanne, I 
visited Germany, France, Italy, Greece, 
Yugoslavia, Belgium, and fun Switzerland. 
My weekends didn't have to be spent looking 
for yet another party. 
Friday afternoon could 
be spent on the TGV, 
one of the world's 
fastest trains, racing 
towards a weekend in 
Paris. I could even 
launch a fun-filled hitch
hiking trip through the 
alps and absorb some of 
the most beautiful
scenery I had ever 
imagined. Some of my 
very most fun and
pleasurable weekends, 
though, were spent 
sipping Swiss wine in 
a tiny caf with a few 
close friends.If you are at all interensted in this exchange 
program, you can find out more by calling 
me at x4268 or you can visit the
International Studies office in Warner Hall. 
Take my advice, don't let anything stand 
between you and the most rewarding
experience of a lifetime.
(Tfieo
At this time, I must apologize for my conspicuous twoweek absence from the Tartan. It was nothing against you, 
or this fine newspaper, or the staff thereof. Yet, I feel I must 
explain this fortnight hiatus. Things have been pretty rough 
at home lately, and Ive had to deal with personal problems. 
I had to spay the cat, build a garden shed and a gazebo, and I 
had to fly the Goodyear blimp over the World Series. And on 
top of all that, I had to sort out the sock drawer. Again, I 
apologize for all the disappointment, aggravation and 
suicides that the absence of Ask Theo may have caused. 
Please pardon me.
Th-Th-Theo
Dear Theo,
I have this fear that Im a vampire. I go around saying 
Bleeeeaaahh! to people for no apparent reason. Bleeaaaaaah! 
Sorry. You see what I mean? Theo, its really getting out of 
hand. Im fed up and I dont know who or what Ill bleah 
next. Im considering changing my name to Bella. My 
orthodontist physically threw me out of his office the other 
day because he thought my fangs were a joke.
Bleahed out in 
Pittsburgh
Dear Bleah,
Have a friend drive a wooden stake through your heart If 
you die immediately, youre a vampire, if not, dont worry.
Theo
Dear Theo,
When I signed my bill for this school, it said very 
specifically that I would be free to practice my own religion 
as I wished. I soon found this to be most untrue. You see, I 
am a druid. Last week, on the Morewood parking lot, my 
religious group and I were performing a simple, innocent 
bonfire burning and sacrificing of a virgin when we were 
unjustly arrested by the CMU police. After we explained 
ourselves, we wereof coursereleased. But I dont know if
I can take this harrassment any longer.
A Druid in 
Despair
New Idea For Old Pumpkins
JUDY HARABURDA 
Tartan Staffwriter
Hold on! Before you ditch that jack olatem, pause to consider its endless culinary possibilities: pumpkin cream puff: 
pumpkin parfait, pumpkin pudding cake...Sounds like Everything You've Always Wanted to Know About P 
Cuisine But Were Afraid to Ask.
The Great PPG Place Pumpkin Festival inspired such winning culinary creations with its Pumpkin Cooking Contest
Ten-year-old Holly Denson's recipe for Spicy Pumpkin Roll-Ups earned her a first place awarda $100 gift certificate 
to PPG Place shops.
Grandmother Mary Pringle's recipe for Harvest Pumpkin Cheesecake in Gingersnap Crust brought her second place and 
a $50 gift certificate for PPG Place Shops.
Other original recipes ranged from the standard pumpkin pie to pumpkin butter. Congratulations to all the enthusiastic 
and creative Betty Crockers out there pioneering the art of pumpkin cookery. For the rest of you gourd gourmets, heres a 
recipe that apparently slipped by the judges:
1 medium pumpkin (David Letterman-styledropped off a 5-story tower)
2 cups stale candy com 
1/2 tsp. eye of newt
5 Kleenex ghosts
1 cup rice (leftover from Rocky Horror)
3 plastic spider rings
1 cup cobwebs (seasoning)
Combine all ingredients in large bowl. Mix well. Beat at medium speed for two minutes by light of a full 
moon. Bake in pan thoroughly greased with werewolf fat and floured for two hours at 350 degrees. Serves 
six.
Bonus Pumpkin Recipie, 
Just Clip and Attach to Your Refirigerator for 
Reference
Dear Dee Dee,
Having once lived in a druid commune in the (19)60s, I 
can identify with your plight. We had the nastiest neighbors. 
They were Dylanists. Not being members of the Drudist 
religion or race, they failed to understand our rituals. I 
remember one time when we tried to erect a scale model of 
Stonehenge in our back yard. Well, it was mostly in our 
yard; a few of the stones had to be placed in their yard for 
historical accuracy. And can you believe it? They got all 
peeved! I mean, we couldnt help where the sun set. So we 
beat them a pulp while singing Like a Rolling Stone.
Theo
love me tender, write for 
features"
-The Kirn*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanNovember 11, 1986
POW's, Some Alive, Some Dead, All Remembered
By Albrecht T. Powell
Tartan Production Manager
This letter is, of course, 
fictitious. But it necessarily need 
not be. There are over 2,400 
Americans still missing in action 
(MIA) from the Vietnam conflict 
alone. Thousands of other 
Americans are listed as missing in 
action from our other foreign wars. 
These people may be alive or dead, 
prisoners of war (POW) or just 
brainwashed slaves to a new 
country. No one really knows. _
There have been reports that over 
300 caucasions, assumed to be 
Americans, are currently living in 
Vietnam against their \vil 
Thailand, profiteers are 
what they claim to be 
remains for over $10,000 
Americans. Cambodia has 
likewise exchanged MIAs remains 
for money for years.
Recently, however, relations 
between Vietnam, other involved 
countries, and America have been 
improving. Every so often, we 
hear of ten or twelve bodies being 
returned to the United States. 
Denying that any are being held 
against their will, Vietnam is 
claiming to be doing everything it 
can to get our soldiers back home.
The need for these lost souls to 
come home rests with their 
families. They are living a "life in 
limbo," bordering on nonexistance. Without a body alive or 
dead, these , people still hope and 
pray that their loved ones are still, 
somehow, alive and will come 
home. Someday.
The National League of Families 
and the Vietnam Veterans Inc. are
.*>sn-^ *
** > , 9** *Vv ^
\ V iw Va rieu *
\ v \ **. s^v\! *\ S'f ^VV1^ AM 1 ^ \1
\ mf  it ^ ft -
\ 2' -it 
\ +&*' /.........will
two organizations that are trying to 
ease the pain of these families and 
trying to bring our people back 
home. They feel the best way to 
begin accomplishing this is 
ugh public awareness. People 
tar about the POW/MIA 
roblem and the most common 
response is, "Yea, its a shame, but 
what can you do about it?"
These organizations have set up a 
multitude of programs to help 
bring our POW/MIAs back to the 
U.S. One such is the "Adopt an 
MIA" program through which a 
person buys a bracelet with an 
MIAs name on it. The funds 
received through this and other 
such programs goes towards 
projects like trips to Hanoi to see 
first hand what the situation is. 
They feel excursions like this are 
much more productive than the 
unofficial unsupported "Rambo" 
missions that have been attempted.
Since most of the information 
concerning POW/MIAs is purely 
speculative, all one can do is 
inform the public that there are 
MIAs and that Senators and 
Congressmen should be pushed to 
try and bring them home.
Carnegie Mellons Air Force 
ROTC detachments will be doing 
their part to promote POW/MIA 
awareness by wearing yellow and 
red ribbons on their uniforms 
signifying the rememberance of 
Americans not yet returned 
There will also be a joint 
Air Force retreat at 5:00 this 
oon during which a salute 
be hailed for both our 
veterans of wars and for those 
soldiers missing in action.
Need a ride home for Thanksgiving?
Take The A Phi O
iH(e Is)
To
yiiroigfwg grondi PM SKdldOpM
Harrisburg stop-> East Mall
Philadelphia Stop-> Bulletin Parking Lot 
(Next To 30th St. Station )
Buy Tickets at Skibo Information Desk
Another A Phi O Service
NEW HISTORY COURSES FOR SPRING 1987
79-225 RIOTS, REVOLTS AND REVOLUTIONS: POPULAR POLITICS IN
EUROPE AND AMERICA, 1750 TO THE PRESENT
9 Units
TuTh 1:30/Chapman and Cohen
This course will explore why people have rebelled against established 
authority and what the consequences have been in three countries  
France, Britain and the United States. The main topics will include 
political revolution, working-class militancy, battles over women's 
suffrage, leftwing and rightwing responses to economic hardship, the 
protests of the 1960's, and the nature of popular politics today.
79-313 PROFESSIONS IN SOCIETY 
9 Units
M 7-9:20 p.m./Devine
This course combines historical perspective and social science 
approaches to deal with professions in contemporary society. The 
course will explain why professional status is so desirable, but 
so hard to achieve; special attention will go to the role of uni
versities, including Carnegie Mellon, in defining professional 
expertise. Professional obligations, through law and ethics, will 
also be dealt with, and the future of the professions will be explored. 
Are professions losing autonomy? What new areas can reasonably aspire 
to professional status? Practitioners from various professions will 
present their settings to the class, adding to reading materials drawn 
from several disciplines.
79-348 EUROPEAN CITIES
6 Units (First-half mini course)
MWF 11:30/Lynch
The rise of cities is a vital aspect of European history, and the 
development of European city types is an essential ingredient in 
understanding the phenomenon of urban life. This course will examine 
main trends in European urban history from the late medieval period 
to the 20th century, showing what factors shaped urban growth and 
dealing with sources that reveal the nature of urban life. Theoretical 
approaches to the problem of urbanization will be combined with atten
tion to the visual and spatial aspects of different types of cities.
79-350 HISTORY OF AMERICAN SPORTS 
9 Units
TuTh 3:00-:15/Hardy
Taught by Stephen Hardy, a leading authority who also heads a sports 
studies prograa at Robert Morris College. The course will focus on 
how American sports changed under the impact of wider social and economic 
forces, toward discussing the "business" of contemporary sports and the 
relationship between sports and contemporary social Issues.

---------------------------------------------------

J. J. Servan-Schreiber
with Barbara Crecine 
AV

 


The
T 7~ 1 1
%
1 . .  -  - .
Knowledge
.. -
Revolution
Now available at the 
CMU Bookstore.
$3 student price.
Student Senate Funding and Recognition Committee
Fall 1986 Report to all Activities Fee Paying Students
As required by the Student Senate Fiscal Policy, I, Tamal Mukherjee, respectfully submit the summary of all 
subsidy allocations that the Funding and Recognition Committee will be recommending to the Student Senate at 
7:00pm on^ Tuesday, November 18, 1986 in the Wherrett Room in Skibo. Representatives of all the 
organizations listed below are required to be present at the meeting.
OrganizationSubsidy
Amiga Users Group$1,073
Carnegie Involvement Association$2,620
Computer Club$3,436
Emergency Medical Squad$1,770
Gay and Lesbian Alliance$441
Law Club$172
Macintosh Users' Group$1,998
Mayur$233
Oakland Review$1,410
Robotics Club$2,174
Scotch n' Soda$2,550
Shotokan Karate Club$195
Spring Carnival$12,005
Sweepstakes$6,810
Ultimate Frisbee Club$650
Weightlifting and Bodybuilding Club$850
Women's Lacrosse Club$1,601
TOTAL$39,998
All Activities Fee paying students are invited to come to the meeting and participate in the allocation precoess. 
I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the leaders of the organizations, the 
members of the Funding and Recognition Committee, and especially to Dean Cox, for all the work they have 
done to make this a successful semester for the committee.
TAMAL MUKHERJEE 
co-Chair of Funding,
Funding and Recognition Committee 
Student Senate
............

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanNovember 11, 1986
The Carnegie Mellon Intramural Report
IM ChessStuart Fox is commissioner  x4259 
Please continue to turn in the winning 
scores to Stuart or the IM Office.
Table TennisCommissioner Bob Koca  x8989.
Bob reports IM Table Tennis is going 
well.
Water PotoCommissioner Hal Levine  x4077  
informs us that the playoff for the Intramural 
Championship will be held Tuesday, 
November 11th in the CMU Pool at 9:30 
p.m.
Bowling
Commissioner  Vince Carozza x5494 
Please pay all bowling fees to Dale at the 
Strand Lanes in Oakland.
Darts
Commissioner  Paul Pecora 621-9125 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in 
the IM Office. Please report your winning 
scores to IM Office.
Racauetball
Commissioner  Rob Schlackman  
x5518
Please continue to turn in your winning 
team scores to the IM Office.
<*
Commissioners:
Major League  Fred Deleon x5432 
Intermediate  Stephanie Janczak x4815 
Minors  Mike Grzywinkski x4651 
Women  Stephanie Janczak x4815
Final call for women only soccer teams 
Thurs., Nov. 13, 4:30 p.m.
Six Person Volleyball
Commissioner  Dee Nyzio x4608 
Finals will be played November 12th and 
13th.
Backgammon
Commissioner  Shuman Lee x3680 or 
521-3414
Final entry date Thursday, November 13, 
4:30 p.m.
3 Person Volleyball
Commissioners:
Major League  Stuart Fox x4259 
Intermediate League  Stuart Fox x4259 
Minor League  Stuart Fox x4259 
Matches will start Monday, November 
17th.
There will be no schedule adjustments in 3 
Person Volleyball.
Just Think About!
IM Basketball 
The IM Basketball Tournament will start 
in January 1986. Entries due Thursday, 
January 8, 1987. Start to line up your team 
NOW! Last year we had 106 teams so get 
your team in early this year.
Pick up entry forms in IM Office.
Next IM Board Meeting
Thursday, November 20th at 12:30 p.m. in 
the Gym Conference Room
Minors Championship
ECE Dynamic Rams  31 
Pika  7
The ECE Dynamic Rams (8-1) jumped off 
to an early 19-0 first quarter lead and never 
looked back in capturing the Minors 
Championship 31-14 over Pika. Quarterback 
Ed Baranoski threw four touchdown passes,
2 each to receivers Dave Fugate and Mike
Trick. Ted Lehr and Phil Nigh led the ECE 
defense as they held the usually expolosive 
Pika offense to only 14 points. Quarterback 
Mike Smith accounted for both Pika scores, 
by running and throwing for touchdowns. 
Pika suffered its first loss of the season and 
ended the year with an 8-1 overall record.
ALL INTRAMURAL
MINORS MVP  ED BARANOSKI 
Offense 1st Team
Ed Baranoski  ECE D.R.
Fred Deleon  Pika 
Todd Bross  Pi-Lam 
Dave Fugate  ECE D.R.
John Britton  N.P. Completions 
Dave White  7th Floor
Defense 1st Team
Jeff Pinard  Pika
Glen Schuster  Theta-Xi B
Ted Lehr  ECE
Scott Osmond  Pika
Rob Levine  NP Completions
Paul Masalsky  CIA-A
2nd Team All starsVic Banko  DU-B
Phil Gabriele  DU-B
Bill Smith  ME Giants
Joe Shindler  Physics
Michael Young  NP Completions
Greg Perkins  Sigma Nu
Robert Lin  CSO
Brian Schmersal  ROTC
Bob Hainsey  Physics
Mike Grzywinski  Boys F. McGill
Stuart Fox  AEII
Mike Fetterman  The Force
Paul Pecora  Pika
Vince Carozza  Theta Xi-B
Tom Killeen  AFROTC
Jeff Russo  ET
ALL INTRAMURALS 
ALL STAR FOOTBALL
MAJORS 
MVP  DAVE BART, PIKA 
OffenseDave Bart  Pika 
Rob Bowie  Crunch Bunch 
Chris Pfeiffer  Crunch Bunch 
Rich Hoyland  Beta 
Darin Ball  Kappa Sig-A 
Kip Jackson  Crunch Bunch 
Dave Burchanti  ATO 
Mike Nazzaro  ATO
Defense
Bob Bowser  ATO 
Dave Bart  Pika 
Rob Mays  ATO 
Kip Jackson  Crunch Bunch 
George Kay  ATO 
Mike Luterman  Pika
ALL STAR FOOTBALL 
INTERMEDIATE
QffensePat McMullen  DU-A 
Mike Talentine  Theta Xi 
Jay Glaspy  The Squad 
John Waugman  Theta Xi 
Mike Rielly  The Squad 
Burt Coudriet  SAE-B 
Dom Ianno  Tiatans
Defense
Tony Bonyissuto  DU-A 
Jeff Lynn  SAE-B 
Ron Moore  The Squad 
Brad Sachar  Phi Kap 
Scott Cullen  Crabs 
John McNamara  SAE-B
S. NG  The Squad
our dough mode FRESH doily
S10 IVY STREIT  SHADYSIDi
682-3333
FREE DELIVERY TO: 
 Shodyside  Pi Breeze  ^v
 Sq Hill  Oakland 
 Friendship Park 
 Bloomfield 
 Highland Pori^
FREE DELIVERY
FAST FREE DELIVERY
CALL FOR FREE DELIVERY 12 NOON TO 12 MIDNIGM1
682-3333
COUPONLarge Cheese Pizza $3.99 Free liter of coke
(All sandwiches come with rr.elted provoione cheese and are OVEN-BAKED)
Italian Hoagie............................4.00
Va Hoagie.............................. . 2.00
Hot Sausage..............................3.90
Meat Ball...................................3.90
Cheese Hoagie..........................3.20Steak Hoagie...............................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie. /.................4.20
Cold Sub................................... 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe)......................4.70
(Real Italian Capicolla with Qreen 
Peppers, Mushroom14 that Special Touch) 
(All topped with fresh lettuce, tomato, onion  unless specified) 
(Green Peppers or Mushrooms  25* Extra)
Perspectives on the
World Christian 
movement
[Anthro 491]
"To do the will of GOD, we must know 
the needs of man. I fail to see how any 
person can be perfectly sure they are 
doing what God wants them to do if 
they are not carrying out a thorough 
study of the world." John R Mott
PERSPECTIVES ON THE WORLD CHRISTIAN 
MOVEMENT is a unique class offering, co-sponsored by 
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship at CMU and Geneva 
College, in which you will be challenged with the impact 
of the Christain movement throughout history. Such 
topics as Foundations of Chrisitan Mission and 
Development, Historical Development of the Christian 
Movement, Contemporary Structures in the World 
Christain Movement, Cross Cultural Communication, and 
World Hunger Relief and Development will be explored. 
This is a course unlike any other course you can take at 
Carnegie Mellon. 3 credits are available from Geneva 
College that you can apply to your degree at CMU.
To register you need a special registration 
form. Preliminary registration forms are 
available at the Skibo Information Desk, or 
can be obtained by calling Matt Parker 
x4631 or Chris Fraley x4599.
This course will be offered Monday 
evenings 7:30 -10:00 PM, Spring 
semester.
Official Cross registration with Geneva College will occur at 
the first class.

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 1986The TartanPage 17
Mens Basketball - A Look Ahead
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The 1986-87 season hopes to be one paved 
with gold for the Carnegie Mellon Men's 
basketball team. Returning all 5 starters 
from last season, and a mix of new talent 
and experienced veterans give the Tartans an 
exciting and fast-paced team.
Carnegie Mellon finished the 1985-86 
season with an 11-9 record, good enough for 
third place in the Presidents Athletic Con
ference. The hoopsters head coach, Larry 
Anderson, is in his fourth year at the helm, 
and hopes that this year will be his best. 
"We have a lot of talent, and we are capable 
of playing exciting basketball."
The Tartans have a starting five this year 
that have played together for most of last 
year. At the guards, look for Junior Tom 
Franklin and Sophomore David Bart to start 
together, as they did for the last 7 games of 
the 1985-86 season. The center will be jun
ior Hart Coleman, while his forwards will be 
seniors Daren Moffat and Pete Cwalina.
Coleman, a second team All-PAC selection 
last year, led the Tartans in scoring (16.9 per 
game) and rebounds (9.9 per game). Hart, 
from Pittsburgh's Brashear High School, 
also led the team in field goal percentage, at 
a .505 mark (144 of 285). Cwalina had a 
respectable 12 pts. per game and 9.7 
rebounds per game to back up Coleman. 
Also not to be overlooked was the 1985-86 
performance of David Bart, who garnered
11.6 points per game and 72 assists.
Carnegie Mellon is also in very good shape 
on the bench, as senior Roger DeVries and 
junior David Smith are ready to step into 
action. "We have a lot of role players on this 
team, no doubt. We don't just have guys 
who want to shoot the ball, we have decent 
passers, and guys that can score," explained 
Anderson.
The Tartans have a strong freshman class, 
as the Tartans have 8 freshman on the team.
In the pre-season, Harvey Beckham, a 
freshman from Manassas, Virginia, looks to 
be a strong player. Anderson is happy with 
the whole freshman class, and has great 
hopes for them in the future. What Carnegie 
Mellon is also going to benefit from the 
return of Sophomore Michael Stewart, who 
will be rejoining the team in January.
Even though the Tartans are ready to give 
their best showing in a few years, so is the 
rest of the PAC. John Carroll won the PAC 
last season, and will have a strong enough 
team to at least give them a shot at retaining 
their title. The dark horse of the conference 
will probably be Washington and Jefferson 
College. "W & J lost people, but they had 
an excellent recruiting year and returnees still 
make them strong," speculated Anderson. 
"The confer-ence is getting more and more 
competetive every year. It is going to be the 
best year so far. We will have a rough road 
this year, no question about it....still, I 
really think that we have a good shot at 
winning the conference."
The hoopsters have to do one thing this 
year that they haven't been able to do in the 
past; win on the road. The Tartans only 
won three of their road games in 1985-86, 
and that cost them the PAC championship. 
Carnegie Mellon hasn't lost at home since 
December 3, 1985. So clearly, the road to 
success has its base away from home. 
Coach Anderson stated that the Tartans will 
"have to play well at home, and play super 
and lucky away. It takes a lot of luck to win 
basketball games away from home."
Carnegie Mellon has had good success in 
their offense so far this pre-season. Since 
starting practice on October 15, the Tartans 
have been working on their offense, doing 
lay-up drills, fast break drills, and other 
types of plays. "Everyone is in pretty decent 
shape, and they have really been working 
hard." In a pre-season game against 
Allegheny, the Tartans offense was fast, 
strong, and didnt tire out. This will allow
Anderson to work his defensive sets for the 
last two weeks of practice, before the opener 
against LaRoche in the Big Heart Classic.
CMU will be playing the same basic 
defensive and offensive set-ups that they 
have been using in the past. The defense 
will basically stay man-to-man, but they 
will be able to adjust to box-in-one, and a 2-
3 zone depending on the opponent. "We are 
almost set on our offense, everyone just 
needs a little more work."
The Tartans will be playing in four 
tournaments this year, the first of which will 
open up their season. In the Big Heart 
Classic, being played here at Carnegie 
Mellon November 21st and 22nd, the 
Tartans will be playing LaRoche College. 
The winner of that game will be playing the 
winner of the Pitt-Johnstown/Point Park 
College game for the championship. Then 
CMU will play in the Case Western Reserve
Tournament one week later. On December 
27 and 28, the Tartans will be playing in the 
New York University Tournament.
CMU will begin 1987 by flying to San 
Diego to square off against Clark and 
Rochester in the San Diego Tournament. 
This will be their last tournament for the 
season before they open up the 1987 PAC 
season at home against defending champion 
John Carroll University.
The University Athletic Association is also 
a part of the 1986-1987 schedule. The 
hoopsters will at least be seeing Case 
Western Reserve, New York University, and 
Rochester in various tournaments. With this 
exposure, the Tartans can speculate what 
kind of competition they will be facing in 
1987-88. "We are all looking forward to the 
competition, and getting a small look at 
those schools this year in our tournaments 
will only help us," said Anderson.
Brighten your day or night at
Shadyside
CHANGE OF SEASON SPECIAL
7 Sessions $30 
15 Sessions $55
812 Ivy Street 
621-3065
Call or walk in.
STUDY TECHNIQUES 
SEMINARS
A peer study counselor will present:
Session 1:
"In class strategies: understanding, note 
taking, and follow-up"Saturday, November 15, 1986, 11am - noon, PH-126C
Session 2:
"Making the most of your study time" Saturday, November 22, 1986, 11am - noon, SKIBO 210
Session 3:
"Effective Term paper writing & exam
taking"Saturday, December 6, 1986, 11 am - noon, SKIBO 12
Improve Your 
Income Potential & 
Career Opportunities. Get an MBA.
I
f you are about to graduate from college or have already, you can 
greatly increase your employability and income potential by obtaining an MBA from Ohio State. Our full-time two-year MBA program is designed to provide professional management education. It is one of the top 25 programs in the country and has many unique features, including: no prerequisite course work
 open to students with nonbusiness backgrounds specializations in just one or two management fields through elective course work
 an integrated curriculum that will give you a solid foundation in management tools and concepts a high level of student and faculty-student interaction
 a curriculum accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business.
We offer a full range of career-counseling and placement services.
Recent graduates have found positions with recognized lead
ersthese include:
Strategic product planner, Pontiac Motors Marketing research analyst, General Mills, Inc.
Management consultant, Arthur Andersen k Co.
Financial analyst, Hewlett-Packard Company Commercial lender, National Bank of Detroit 
Management systems analyst, Procter & Gamble Assistant product manager, Oscar Mayer Foods Corporation 
Distribution analyst, Clorox Company 
Export control analyst, IBM Corporation
Find out morecall or write for our free brochure.
Director, MBA Programs The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 1775 College Road Columbus, OH 43210-1399 
(614) 292-8511
_____________________________________________________________________________
The Ohio State University

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanNovember 11, 1986
ln-iente I M
The Tartan
fCv stiidenTstrudiby Automobile_on
into FraternityUpsilon Initiates
JOIN THE FIGHT AGAINST HEART DISEASE
at Carnegie Mellons
BIG HEART BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
Nov. 21,22,23, 1986
.. .and the
Friday - Point Park vs PittJohnstown. 7 00
Carnegie Mellon vs LaRoche. 9 00
Saturday - Men's Consolation Game. 1 00 
Men'sChampionshipGame. 3 00
The Tartans...
On The Upswing: CMU Women's Basketball
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
1985-86 was a rebuilding season for the 
Lady Tartans. Half of the squad consisted of 
freshmen learning how to play a new system 
with new teammates. This season looks to 
be different with nine lettermen returning to 
a squad which is looking to greatly improve 
upon last year's 5-15 record (3-9 in the 
PAC).
At the top of the list of returners is 
sophomore guard Lisa Lightner. As a 
freshman, Lightner was voted second-team 
All-PAC and led Carnegie Mellon in scoring 
(14.4 ppg), assists (94), and steals (71). She 
was also second on the team in blocked 
shots (39) and third in rebounds (6.8 per 
game). Joining her in the backcourt will be 
senior co-captain Val Sooky, who led the 
Lady Tartans in shooting percentage (.393). 
According to third-year Head Coach Gerri 
Seidl, "Val will lead the team on the court."
The frontcourt will have two more 
sophomores, both of whom were honorable 
mention all-league picks last year. One 
forward is Aimee Reber who last year led the 
team in rebounding (10.2 per game) and 
blocked shots (47), plus was second in 
scoring averaging just under 12 points per 
game. The other will be Beth Virgin who 
averaged 10.5 points and 9.7 rebounds per 
game. Coach Seidl describes Virgin as a 
"utility player." Last season, she played 
every position but point guard. Said Seidl, 
"I don't know how she'll ever not play."
Two more sophomores will also see 
considerable playing time. Roseanna 
Neupauer will be used as the third guard 
when the Lady Tartans play without a center. 
Neupauer last season was second in free 
throw shooting (.754) and in assists (38). 
When the center is in, she will be Alison 
Guy. Guy saw limited playing time Jast
season at both forward and center, but this 
year, the center spot is hers to earn. Says 
Coach Seidl, "She's a big improved player 
this year. She's worked hard, I think we'll 
see a big improvement in her offensively."
Other returners are senior co-captain 
forward Cheryl Hauser, junior guard Jill 
Minick, and sophomore forward Patti 
Sparrow.
Three freshman have been added to the 
squad. One expected to see time is guard 
Donna Spicuzza from Mt. Lebanon. "She 
has a beautiful outside shot. She's a nice 
cool player, nothing rattles her. She'll 
probably be one of the first guards off the 
bench." The second is center Patricia 
Chorgo from West Mifflin. She has been a 
surprise to many so far in practice. "She'd 
worked out all summer, I was impressed. I 
think that she'll help us much more than I'd 
expected." Finally, there is guard Val 
Kwiatkowski from Brentwood, who will 
also probably see playing time. Kwiatowski 
has been injured, but has just started to 
practice with the team and Coach Seidl likes 
what she sees. "She has nice moves, can 
handle the ball well, has a nice ten foot 
jump shot, and can read defenses well.
think she needs a little experience, but I do 
think she'll see some playing time this 
year."
A big concern of the Lady Tartans this year 
is tightening up a defense that gave up an 
average of 68.1 points per game. Gone from 
last year is the switching zone to man-toman defense. Instead the Lady Tartans will 
only play man-to-man. Coach Seidl said of 
the change, "After watching the films this 
summer, I can't imagine why I didn't change 
it sooner. One game against Hiram it 
worked, and I guess I felt, 'Well, it worked 
lets use it.' The more I watched the films, 
the more I realized whenever we played the 
zone, we gave up more points."
Offensively, Carnegie Mellon looks to be 
more balanced than last year. Lightner was 
the leading scorer in 12 of the 20 games, 
including a season high of 31 against 
Bethany in last year's finale. The Lady 
Tartans want to have a more wide-open 
offense this season. Said Seidl, "We're trying 
to make the defense react to us, and then read 
a situation, and not set one player up, but 
everyone up. I have confidence in all my 
players as shooters."
The others to average more than 10 points 
per game for Carnegie Mellon were Virgin 
and Reber. Asked about them, Seidl said, "I 
think Beth Virgin will shoot more this year. 
She had a terrible habit of never even 
looking to the shot when she came here. 
Her first thought was, 'I'll pass the ball.' I 
can see a difference now, she'll take that shot 
where she wouldn't take it last year. Aimee 
Reber is a great shooter. She has a good 18- 
20 foot shot." However, in clutch situations 
Seidl will look for Lightner to get the ball. 
"If it comes down to a tie game, you know 
I'll be looking to Lisa, I think the team 
knows that."
While the Lady Tartans have improved, so 
has their schedule. Gone are such schools as 
St. Vincent, Seton Hill, Point Park, Geneva 
and Clarion. They have been replaced in the 
schedule by Lake Erie, Division III power 
Allegheny, and Division II Gannon. 
Furthermore, Carnegie Mellon participates 
in two tournaments this year, the annual 
"Big Heart Tournament" next weekend, and 
one sponsored by the University of 
California at San Diego. This season, also 
marks the beginning of competition in the 
University Athletic Association. Three 
schools from the UAA: Case Western 
Reserve, Rochester, and New York 
University are on the schedule.
Coach Seidl is pleased with the tougher 
schedule. "Weve been playing NAIA teams,
that's no good, my goal is to get to the 
NCAA's someday. You put Allegheny on 
your schedule, you're now considered, even if 
you don't beat them. Our conference doesn't 
have the automatic bid (to the NCAA 
playoffs), so you have to play a tough 
schedule."
Where does that leave the Lady Tartans? 
They're sure to improve upon last year's 
record, both in the President's Athletic 
Conference and overall. Thiel and John 
Carroll currently are the teams to beat, but 
Coach Seidl is confident. According to her, 
"I think we can compete, I think we're going 
to surprise them."
Val Sooky, Cheryl Hauser, and Aimee Reber 
will be guests on WRCT's Sportsline 
tonight at 6PM.Hockey
Continued from Page 24
Yet, due to Carnegie Mellons heavy 
academic requirements, players can not 
always make the games or practices. 
Timmons stated that the team usually 
performs much better during the second 
semester.
Tartan Tattlers - Carnegie Mellon 
scratches for Saturday's game: Todd
Henderson, Mike Herron, Tom Hughes, 
Mark Licata, Mike McGuire, Pat Merchak, 
Rich Nave, Mark Robson, and Kenon 
Smith...Rich Lund, a senior in Electrical & 
Computer Engineering, may have played in 
his last game as a Tartan since will be 
graduating in December...The Tartans lost 
two games last weekend to Ohio State 
University...The next Tartan Hockey game 
will be on Saturday November 15 against 
Penn. State McKeesport at 12:00 at the 
Lakevue Ice Palace in Valencia...All the 
exciting hockey action will be covered live 
by WRCFs Neil Jordan and Perry Pierce.
Saturday - Carnegie Mellon vs. Carlow, 5:00
Case Western Reserve vs. Frostburg State, 7:00
Sunday - Women's Consolation Game, 1:00
Women's Championship Game, 3:00
TICKETS ON SALE AT THE CARNEGIE MELLON GYMNASIUM 
ALL PROCEEDS BENEFIT THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION 
WESTERN PA. CHAPTER
WERE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE
TOURNAMENT TICKETSAdults - $5 
Students  $2SUPPORTED AND PROMOTED BY DELTA UPSILON FRATERNITY

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 1986The TartanPage 19
Steelers' QB Brister Grows Up Quickly
By Ray McGloughlin
Tartan Staffwriter
It would be so easy to believe that Walter 
"Bubby" Brister, the Steelers' rookie quarter
back and possible future star, is just a small
town country boy. He was raised in a small 
town in Monroe, Louisiana, was drafted 
from a small college in the same town, and 
has the accent to prove it. But don't be 
fooled; this young man has been around.
"Everyone thinks Monroe is so small, but 
it has about 80,000 people," says Bubby, 
"and Northeast Louisiana (his college) has 
about 13,000 students." It's a small college 
only in football terms. Brister grew up in a 
middle class family complete with five older 
sisters, all married now, and both parents 
enjoying careers as school teachers. "My dad 
was a quarterback when he was young and he 
taught me a lot of things. I knew I was 
going to be a quarterback when I was seven 
years old." But that didn't stop Bubby from 
trying his hand at other athletics in high 
school. "I played everything: baseball, 
football, basketball, I ran track."
After Bubby graduated, he signed with the 
University of Alabama to play football, but 
decided instead to pursue baseball when he 
was drafted fourth in 1981 by the Detroit 
Tigers organization. "Alabama couldn't offer 
me a new car and all that stuff. But I wanted 
to pitch," says Bubby. "I was clocked at 92 
MPH once, but they stuck me in left field. I 
wasn't hitting that well, and I got hit by a 
pitch once that shattered a bone in my 
thumb." The injury was never that 
devastating, but Bubby saw it as a sign to 
return to his real interest of playing football.
He went to Tulane for two and a half years 
and quarterbacked their team, but when the 
school made a coaching change, bringing in 
local native Wally English, controversy 
overshadowed competition. "That was the 
only time I didn't enjoy playing football. 
Wally and I didnt see eye to eye. He 
brought his son in to play quarterback, and 
the whole thing ended up going to court." 
The unpleasantness of the ordeal caused 
Bubby to leave Tulane and return home to 
the friendly confines of Monroe. "I went 
home for a few weeks and took it easy. I 
hunted and fished and just settled down. I
Sat. 9-5CutsSun. 12-5
COUPOTTImust present
Save 25%
on
Nexxus  Sebastian 
j Tri  Redken  Paul Mitchell |
I 
I
  wm mm Um
Lewis' Hair Salon
813 S. Aiken Shadyside 682-4063
Lewis
813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadyside 
682-4063
had had enough of football for awhile."
But after a few conversations with 
Northeast Louisiana's football coach, Pat 
Collins, Bubby was back to work and back 
in school, and the rest is impressive history. 
He completed 191 of 342 passes for 2,880 
yards and 17 touchdowns - in one season. 
He had a total offense average of 245.8 yards 
a game and ranked 10th in the nation in that 
department. He won the NLU "Athlete of the 
Year" award and was the 5th quarterback 
taken in this year's NFL draft. Pat Collins 
has said that if Brister had played with NLU 
for another full season he'd have been a num
ber one draft choice. Bubby says, "It's un
fortunate (he didn't play there longer or go to 
a bigger school). But I still have two healthy 
legs as a result, and I might not have been 
so lucky if I had played more college ball."
What about the change from college to 
professional football? "It's like going from 
high school to college," says Bubby. 
"You're lost and confused. Everyone knows 
the system, and the guys all know each 
other. I didn't expect to play so soon. 
When they let Scotty (Cambell) go, and 
Mark got hurt, I was freakin' out. You can 
go to all the meetings and study all the play
books all you want; they just don't cut it on 
the field. New England was showing me 
stuff I never seen before."
All in all, Brister believes that the Steelers, 
being a team in need of a quarterback, are the 
best team that could have drafted him. "I 
respect Mark very much," he quickly 
interjects,"Hes been very helpful to me." 
But Bubby thinks that in two or three years 
he'll be on top of the system. *'A scout told 
me that the stuff that's confusing me now 
will be second nature in awhile."
After a relatively impressive start against 
Cincinnati and a not so impressive outing 
against New England, Bubby has some idea 
of his potential in the NFL and some 
experience to build on. "It's important to 
blow off your frustration - like after the 
interceptions I threw against New England - 
and not to lose concentration. I have to 
pick up receivers better who have read 
defenses and adjusted their routes and check 
off receivers more often. When I missed 
Sweeney deep twice in the Cincinnati game I 
was very upset. I usually have a habit of 
overthrowing, not underthrowing, the ball. 
But I think if I press enough the job will get 
done." And when Bubby gets his next shot
he would like the confidence the coaching 
staff has shown in him to continue. "Leave 
me in there (if he's going bad). Let me get 
my bumps and bruises and learn the hard 
way. That'll help my confidence knowing I 
won't have to be looking over my shoulder 
all the time."
Until he gets his next chance, Bubby will 
continue learning the system and enjoying 
his life in Pittsburgh. "Coming from the 
South, I heard a lot of bad things about Pitts
burgh. But when I came through that tunnel 
it was like a beautiful picture with the 
stadium and all. Pittsburgh has great night 
spots, great restaurants, and pretty girls. I'm 
going to move here permanently soon."
As for Blister's future - and he has a long 
one at 24 - eventually he is going to go back 
to college and complete his General Studies 
degree with a final semester, and his agent in 
St.Louis is looking into promotional 
appearances for companies which could give 
Brister a career after football.
But first things first. For Walter "Bubby" 
Brister, the years ahead will most certainly 
include some Hank Williams Jr. on the 
stereo, some beer drinking on occasion, and 
quite a bit of football on Sunday afternoons.
PICKUP 
JLPARTY
THIS BUD S 
FOR YOU!
nv*Ah II

---------------------------------------------------

By NEAL A. LEVENE 
Tartan Staffwriter
Greg Timmons scored the Tartans' 
winning goal unassisted during a Slippery 
Rock second period two man advantage to 
win 5-3 on Saturday at the Belmont Ice 
Skating Rink in Kittanning, Pennsylvania. 
This win gives the Ice Tartans an in
conference record of 1-0-1.
Carnegie Mellon dominated the first period 
of the game scoring three goals, and 
continued to dominate the second period 
action scoring twice while only giving up 
one goal. However, in the third period 
Carnegie Mellon let up chi their checking, 
and Slippery Rock was able to capitalize by 
scoring two late goals.
Junior Brian Nogrady explained, "After 
playing a conscientious first half of the 
period [third] we slowed down a little bit. 
The second half was a little sloppy. With 
our lead as it was, some of us were a little 
hungry for a goal, and our defensemen were 
overhandling the puck a little looking for a 
goal.
Coach Bob Koch, a 1986 graduate from 
Carnegie Mellon, alternated between two 
lines. The first line consisted of: senior 
Steve Desrochers at left wing, junior Greg 
Timmons at center wing, freshman Chris 
Galvin at right wing, and graduate student 
Jim Larsen and junior John Blackwood as 
defensemen. The second line consisted of: 
Rich Lund, Dave Basile, Mark Allen, Sean 
McGinn and Brian Nogrady. After attaining 
a 2-0 lead, Koch started to rotate freshman 
Phil Duvalsaint and sophomore Pete
Malkemes into the lines pairing them up 
with more experienced forwards. Koch 
explained, T don't like to have one strong
line and one wcatt line because if our strong 
line goes out and gets a goal, and we then 
send out a weak line who gives up a goal, 
what have we accomplished? We are no 
further ahead."
Many of the players stated after the game 
that Slippery Rock played a rather "cheap" 
game. As a result, Slippery Rock was 
heavily penalized in the early going. They 
received four penalties during the first twelve 
minutes. During one of CMU's many 
power play opportunities, John Blackwood, 
a mechanical engineering student from 
Monroeville, sent a strong wrist shot from 
the point rocketing into the goal giving 
CMU the early lead.
This goal was shortly followed by the first 
of Timmonss three goals. "The puck was 
loose in front of the net," Timmons 
elaborated, "and several of us were banging 
away at it in front of the net. I moved in 
from the comer and snuck in behind the 
defensemen. When I saw the puck just lying 
there in front of the goalie, I just shoved it 
in."
The final goal of the first period was scored 
by Chris Galvin off an assist from 
Timmons and Desrochers. Galvin, a 
freshmen from Charlestown, Massachusetts, 
had an exceptional game against Slippery 
Rock. Timmons commented, "He played 
very strong. He is very quick on the ice, and 
his quickness helps us immensely. It is 
exactly what we were lacking last year." 
Teammate Sean McGinn expanded, "Galvin 
has a wealth of experience and has a good 
sense of the game, he sets up the plays well 
but has to regain the scoring edge."
Early in the second period, Slippery Rock 
received a two man advantage due to 
penalties assessed against the Tartans.
Shortly after Slippery Rock's power play 
began, Timmons surprised the Slippery 
Rock defensemen with some adept 
forechecking. He was able to rob them of 
the puck and skate into the Slippery Rock 
zone unmolested. He deeked out the goalie 
and scored. This became the winning goal. 
Slippery Rock answered with a goal shortly 
afterwards making the score 4-1. Finally, 
late in the second period Timmons 
completed his hat trick with his third goal 
on a rebound from a Larsen slapshot from 
the point
Carnegie Mellon let up in defense in the 
third period in order to try to stretch their 
margin of victory. This resulted in allowing 
two Slippery Rock goals late in the third 
period one coming at the three minute mark 
and one coming at the three second mark. 
However, this late outburst of offense on the 
part of Slippery Rock was not enough to 
win, and Carnegie Mellon held on to win 5-
3.
Outstanding in the game was the 
performances of John Kerber and Dave 
Smith, Carnegie Mellons two new freshmen 
goalies. Koch started Kerber in the first 
period and played Smith in the second and 
third periods. Koch felt that none of the 
three Slippery Rock goals represented poor 
goal tending. With Carnegie Mellon's 
apparent domination of offense, it is ironic 
that CMU was still outshot 32-30 in the 
game. In fact, Koch stated that, "Goal 
tending on both ends of the ice was very 
good. This game could have easily been 8-4 
or 8- 5." Many players feared early in the 
season that goal tending might be a real 
weakness this season due to the relative 
inexperience of the new net minders.
However, most players now feel
comfortable with the abilities of Kerber and 
Smith.
Jim Larsen also played a solid defensive 
game. Through many sharp crisp passes, 
he set up many good scoring opportunities 
for his teammates. One problem many of 
the players notice is that due to other 
commitments many of the players miss 
practices and matches. "The team just hasn't 
been together much," explained Timmons, 
"Playing with different people all the time 
makes it tough to learn people's style of 
play. What will help us is when the same 
guys start coming out for the games." This 
is a problem most club athletic teams have.
Continued on Page 18
Scoreboard
Football
Carnegie Mellon 27 
Bethany 24
Hockey
Carnegie Mellon 5 
Slippery Rock 3
Mens Volleyball 
Allegheney 2 
Carnegie Mellon 0
Carnegie Mellon 1 
Pitt 1
Grove City 2 
Carnegie Mellon 0
Tartan Sports
Gridders End Season On Winning NotecnrrpnHArpH thrAA linanou/prpH tnnrhHnu/nc - - - - - _____________V ^___________________
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Sports Editor
What was almost the low point in recent 
Carnegie Mellon football history turned into 
an amazing comeback victory, as the Tartans 
scored 20 fourth-quarter points to defeat 
Bethany 27-24.
The Tartans took the lead on a Chris 
Hansen run from five yards out with just 
under ten minutes left in the game, against a 
Bethany team that appeared to have given up 
following two quick previous CMU scores.
The contest was the final one of the 1986 
campaign for both teams. Bethany, which 
had gained its first win of the season the 
previous week versus Thiel, finished 1-8, 
while the Tartans ended 6-3.
The game was marked by unusual tactics 
by both the CMU offense and defense. The 
Tartan coahces alternated both quarterbacks, 
Dean Garofola and Chris Claflin. The unique 
facet of the QB switch was that they were 
roated in and out in the middle of serieses. 
CMU switched signal-callers as many as 
four times during a single drive.
The tactic was explained by receivers coach 
Mark Leposky. "It was a situation 
substitution. We rotated Dean and Chris to 
take advatage of the skills of each." Claflin 
accumulated 115 of the 170 Carnegie Mellon 
passing yards, while Garofola outrushed 
Claflin.
Defensively, the Tartans modified their 4-3 
formation to put greater pressure on Bethany 
quarterback Tracey Finchum. This strategy 
enjoyed selected sucess, but the secondary 
was burned several times for big Bison 
gains.
The Tartans entered the final quarter trailing 
24-7. The offense had not scored since the 
fifth minute of the game, and the defense
surrendered three unanswered touchdowns 
and a field goal.
But also as the third quarter was ending, the 
Tartans were mounting their first significant 
drive of the half.
Carnegie Mellon inched out from their own 
17 yard line to a 3rd down and 4 at the 35. 
Dean Garofola kept the ball and ran for a 
first down. But a 15-yard facemask penalty 
on Bethany put CMU inside Bison territory. 
Mike Minjock's touchdown run six plays 
later from eight yards out put the Tartans 
right back in the game.
After scoring the touchdown, Carnegie 
Mellon got the ball right back by virtue of a 
sucessful onsides kick. Chris Claflin then 
took the Tartanns 48 yards on four plays to 
put Carnegie Mellon within five points.
The Tartan rushing game had a good day, 
especially compared to the week before 
versus W&J. Mike Minjock and Tim Denmead, in their final game as Tartans, racked 
up 71 and 10 yards respectively. Fullback 
Crhis Hansen, a junior, notched 50 yards on 
the day.
Junior tight end Tim Kelly led the receivers 
with three catches for 34 yards. Righ behined 
him was Bill Heiser, whose two receptions 
totaled 33 yards.
The defense also played its part in the 
game, shutting down Bethany at the end of 
the game. QB Finchum got Bethany two 
quick scores after hafltime, but could not 
connect thereafter. Finchum, who had 238 
yards passing at halftime, added only 50 in 
the latter portion of the game and fell two 
short of 300.
Notes: If Carnegie Mellon had lost, it 
would have been the first time since 1974 
the team had lost three games in a row. 
Interestingly, CMU's third consecutive loss 
in '74 came to the Bisons, 14-9
Tim Denmeade struggles to stay afoot versus a Bethany defender. 1,10,0 by Andy Gillespie
Muddy Tartans pose for an end of season victory portrait. Photo by Andy Gillespie
Skaters Ice First Win Versus The Rock
