THE TARTAN
Sigma Nu brother discovered dead
)verdose may be cause
)y NICOLE BROCKMANN
Wartan News Editor
Junior design student Terence Ross, 
2 was found dead in his Sigma Nu 
aternity single room early Wednesiy morning. A preliminary coroners 
.port indicates the cause of death as 
iknown, pending investigation into a 
,ssible drug overdose.
The exact date and time of Ross death 
e unknown, but may have been as 
rly as last Monday, according to 
iamegie Mellon Chief of Police James
According to a Pittsburgh police reJort, Ross body was discovered by Sigma 
Nu brother Jonathan OKeefe. The re
port stated that OKeefe put a note on 
Ross door around 5 pm on Monday. 
When Ross did not respond, OKeefe 
became worried and opened the door at 
2:15 am Wednesday morning. Accord
ing to the report, Ross was found lying 
on his bed, apparently dead.
OKeefe immediately called Campus 
Police. Sergeant William Kozikowski 
arrived at Sigma Nu at approximately 
2:24 am. Upon viewing the scene, 
Kozikowski notified Pittsburgh Police 
and medics, who arrived at the scene 
shortly afterwards and found Ross to 
be deceased. A homicide unit was also 
called in, which according to LaPaglia 
is a common occurrence for any type of 
Please see ROSS, page 3
Campus remembers Ross, 22
courtesy Sigma Nu 
SigmaN ubrmog theaN dbNbgsb carrv
By NICOLE BROCKMANN
Tartan News Editor
Terence Ross, 22, who passed away last 
week in his fraternity room, was a junior 
industrial design major and a brother at 
Sigma Nu.
He spent more time in studio than he 
did with his fraternity, said Matt Butch, 
one of Ross classmates. He would come 
up with parties for Sigma Nu, then leave 
them to come back to studio and work. He 
was very dedicated.
He did work very hard, said another 
classmate, a junior design major who re
quested anonymity. I remember this one 
timeHomecoming weekendwhen we
all had a big project due, and everyone else 
had gone out. His parents were in town, 
but he worked in studio whenever he could. 
He kept the shop open for all of us to do our 
work, even though he had his own work to 
do.
He was always really intense, said Jim 
Wiley, lieutenant commander of Sigma Nu. 
He didnt like to lose or to do anything 
wrong. He was a perfectionist and was 
very hard on himself.
Ross was actively involved in playing 
sports for Sigma Nu, including football and 
hockey. He played goalie when Sigma Nu 
won the championship by a score of 1-0 
last year. It was the most amazing game 
Please see MEMORIAL, page 3
hieves plunder ID Center
|y DAVID LADEK
[artan Assistant News Editor
iFor the next few days or so, flashCarnegie Mellon ID may not be 
tough to admit members of the 
impus community to University 
frivileges. On Wednesday night, 
deves broke into Warner Hall and 
tie all the equipment needed to 
Jake University identification cards. 
The thieves escaped with the camlera, die cutter, laminator, and mag
netic encoder used to make and encode 
student ID cards. They also took 
garious blank student, faculty, and 
[staff ID cards.
!n a memo to the campus commu
nity released on Friday, Vice Presi
dent for Planning and Business Af
fairs Pat Keating said, This theft 
will inconvenience every member of 
the community and will cost a con
siderable sum to rectify.
As a result, the University is 
implementing changes in identifi
cation procedures, according to the 
memo.
One change is that students who 
wish to borrow or use materials from 
libraries or computer clusters on 
campus must show a second form of 
ID, such as a drivers license, and 
may be required to sign a receipt 
when they get the materials. This 
should prevent removal of Univer
sity-owned materials by persons 
unaffiliated with the University.
Other procedures are also being 
implemented on campus to insure 
that the criminals will not be able to 
use any fake IDs that they create.
Normally, we have to check the ID 
of every student who comes into the 
dorm, said Heidi Meyhofer, a desk 
attendant at Morewood Gardens. 
Now we have to look at the back of 
the ID as well, to be sure its real. The 
card reader is shut off, so no one can 
get in without keys or having us look 
at their ID.
Meyhofer, a sophomore in the 
College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences, also said that check out 
procedures for equipment such as 
vacuums and game room equipment 
Please see ID, page 6
Fee referendum elicits 
ixed student reactionm
)y DAVID LADEK
ortan Assistant News Editor
If tomoiTows referendum, manled by Student Senate, is passed 
by the student body, the Activities 
jee may be raised from $40 to $50 a 
.ester, pending approval by the 
University's Board of Trustees. This 
leasure, if implemented, would give 
mate more money to allocate to 
ident organizations.
Students had mixed reactions to 
ie proposed increase. Junior Doug 
emba, a mechanical engineering 
ajor, said, Its only $10, whats the
I think that the amount of money that 
clubs are getting is outrageous. Its hard 
to believe they need more. 
 Jerry Decatrel, 
sophomore ECE major
big deal? Were already paying amount, they could probably raise it 
$10,000 a semester, 10 bucks more without anyone noticing. However, I 
cant hurt too much. think that the amount of money that
Jerry Debatrel, a sophomore ECE clubs are getting is outrageous. Its 
major, said, $10 is such a small Please see REFERENDUM, page 6
I vant to suck vour blood!
Alex Patho, Jr./Tartan Photographer
Jan.ataNb pbfCh dhi pbfCh RNaC.bN ,u2hNu lNasCaN umIbr mg DaN C.b Fmff hC C.b xhffa2bbg 
nhNCy hC pdp JhCiNuhy gmo.Cv TaN taNb n.aCa saIbNhob aD Rb2mCs.mgo xhffa2bbg 
sarCitbrw rbb nhob v
DC mulls over dorm-storming policy changes
|y LAURIE WILKISON
fyrtan Staffwriter
Representatives of the Inter-Fraternity 
ouncil, the Student Dormitory Council, 
id other student organizations met on 
tiursday to revise the policy concerning 
pie canvassing of dormitories by memjgers of different groups on campus, 
ommonly known as dorm-storming.
I A preliminary compromise has been 
pught between the independent orgafeations, the fraternities, and SDC,
said John Laken, vice president of SDC. 
Just a few minor details of implemen
tation need to be worked out before it is 
presented to Housing.
In the past, the fraternities have been 
the only organizations that have taken 
part in dorm-storming, a process at the 
beginning of the year in which members 
of an organization go door-to-door in 
residence halls to talk to individual stu
dents about their organization and often, 
in the case of fraternities, about upcom
ing Rush events.
"It should include independent organizations, 
because theres no reason not to.
 Nathan Loofbourrow, 
 KGB president
An official policy of the Housing Office 
forbids this type of canvassing, but there 
has been an unwritten exception allow
ing Greeks to dorm-storm during Rush.
The details, such as the dates, times, 
and number of members allowed to dormstorm, have been regulated by IFC. 
The fraternities have always handled
this really well, said Greg Rhoads, SDCs 
Housing chair. There have not been 
many concerns as far as we know. 
This year, representatives of KGB and 
CIA approached the president of SDC 
about the right of independent organiza
tions to dorm-storm as well. Because 
this would mean an increase in the 
number of people circulating in the dorms 
in the' first few weeks of classes, SDC 
sees a need to formulate a more struc
tured policy to monitor the process.
Please see DORM-STORMING, page 5
Sleeping Baggers eat a 
bigger and better meal than 
Carnegie Mellon students.
See page 12.
 Senior quarterback Billy 
Snyder receives national 
recognition in Sports 
Illustrated.
m m See page 15.Insidern .  Modem architects realize
Comics16 S.......................................^ architect Henry Hornbostels
T\i.t ................................................L8 original vision.ter.........ti
Spurts ...............................................  Students who stay up all
TT: ...................................I night shouldnt bother turningbar-...s s r .................................See page L13.
David Docktor/Tartan Photographer
JbgmaN nigCbN -hygb hNrag obCr 
h nigC aDD hohmgrC AbgbIh affbob 
mg JhCiNuhyHr ohtbv d.b dhNChgr 
RbhC AbgbIhr Aafubg daNghuabr 
M9OM1 Ca Nbthmg igubDbhCbu 2mC. 
hg 0OB aIbNhff NbsaNuv Jbb rCaNy 
ag nhob MPv
Administration examines 
High Holy Day conflicts
By RACHEL HAAS
Tartan Staffwriter
After the attention given to the 
clash between the fraternity 
pledge night onSeptember 28 and 
the J ewish holiday ofYom Kippur, 
Bnai Brith Hillel Director Rabbi 
Joe Levine and the dean and as
sistant dean of Student Affairs, 
Mike Murphy and Ron Campana, 
have met to try to come up with a 
feasible and tangible plan to raise
consciousness within the cam
pus community about the Jewish 
holidays Rosh Hashana and Yom 
Kippur.
According to Evan Indianer, 
president of Alpha Epsilon Pi, the 
Jewish cultural fraternity on 
campus, more students felt the 
academic conflicts.
Levine agreed, writing in an 
early October Letter to the Editor 
in The Tartan that the number 
ofcollisions with Rosh Hashana
and Yom Kippur were not only 
isolated to the IFC events, but 
[reached] into academic depart
ments as well.
From his 15-year experience 
here, Levine estimates that ap
proximately 25 percent of the 
Carnegie Mellon faculty and stu
dent body is Jewish.
Of all Jewish holidays, which 
last from sunset of the first day to 
sunset of the second, Yom Kiplfbhrb rbb UGTdJw nhob 9

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 1990
THIS JUST INMl
Deficit 
reduction 
plan may 
save $500B
WASHINGTON (AP)  
President Bush says the 
deficit plan that Congress has 
cooked up isnt a recipe he 
would have liked. Still, Bush 
said the idea of saving $500 
billion* over the next five years 
is a good one, and would even 
convince him to sign a deficitreduction measure that would 
raise taxes.
That deficit-reduction 
measure is on its way to the 
Presidents desk after passing 
votes in both the House and 
the Senate last night.
The major provisions in the 
deficit reduction package in
clude:
Raising the gasoline tax 
by 5<2, effective December 1.
Large increases in taxes 
on alcoholic beverages.
Two separate 4 cent raises 
in cigarette taxes, one in 1991 
and one in 1993.
Raising the top incometax bracket from 28 to 31 
percent, affecting about 600- 
thousand people, cut the rate 
that many upper-middle class 
people pay on some income 
from 33 to 31 percent, and 
increase the alternative 
minimum tax to 24 percent, 
up from 21 percent.
Decreasing capital gains 
taxes on the sale of invest
ments from a 33 percent top 
end to 28 percent.
Reduce personal incometax exemptions for high level 
income households.
Increase the earned-income tax credit, which ben
efits low-income families with 
children.
Providing $2.5 billion dol
lars of tax incentives for in
creasing U.S. oil and gas ex
ploration.
Raising taxes on life-in
surance companies by $8 bil
lion, and raising the interest 
rate corporations pay on 
overdue taxes.
Budget shenanigans cause brouhaha
WASHINGTON (DJ)  The 
budget agreement taking shape 
in Congress is the largest and 
most serious deficit-cutting 
package in modern times. But for 
all its historic dimensions, the 
long battle of 1990 is ending not 
with a bang but a whimper.
The fighting, fumbling and flipflopping that accompanied the 
budget packages birth have pro
foundly undermined confidence 
in the ability of the U.S. govern
ment to manage its fiscal affairs. 
As a result, any near-term eco
nomic benefitsincluding lower 
interest rates  expected from 
the proposed $500 billionin deficit 
cuts may prove limited, at best.
This is a plan that seems to 
accomplish the impossible. Two 
weeks before an election, it is 
proposing to raise taxes by more 
than $140 billion over five years.
Moreover, the accords proposed 
cuts in government entitlement 
programs appear to be far deeper 
than ever attempted in the past, 
even if they are less severe than 
those contemplated a month ago.
The agreement isnt final, and 
last week there was still a possi
bility that major parts of the 
package would be reshaped. But 
Congressional leaders are hope
ful they can complete action by 
tomorrow on the plan.
But at what a cost.
For five months, the nation has 
been treated to the unseemly 
spectacle of a White House and 
Congress at war with each other 
and themselves. President Bush, 
in particular, has given the ap
pearance of lacking conviction and 
courage on tax and spending is
sues, abandoning one campaign 
promise after another.
The damage to President Bush 
is demonstrated in his approval 
ratings. A new Wall Street Jour
nal/NBC News poll, conducted 
last Friday through Sunday, 
shows that 59 percent of'those 
responding said they approved of 
thejobBushis doing as president, 
down radically from 75 percent 
last month. And a majority  54 
percent  said they disapproved 
of his handling of the budget, while 
only 38 percent approved. Con
gress, which is never held in high 
public regard, has also suffered. 
The recent poll shows 71 percent 
of respondents disapproved of its 
role in the budget affair, with 
only 21 percent approving.
Plunging confidence is also 
evident in preliminary economic 
figures scheduled for release 
Monday, which will show that in 
October consumer confidence took
its steepest one-month decline 
ever. The figures, compiled for 
over 20 years by the Conference 
Board of New York, are an impor
tant gauge of economic health.
The Washington budget cir
cus is a major reason for the 
decline in confidence, according 
to Fabian Linden, executive di
rector of consumer research for 
the board.
The confidence crisis created 
by the budget debacle also has 
echoed through the financial 
markets, which yesterday gave a 
lukewarm reception to news of an 
agreement.
Federal Reserve Chairman 
Alan Greenspan has all but 
promised to ease credit once the 
deficit plan is enacted. But he has 
also said that what he does will 
depend on how the financial 
community views the new pro
gram. Yesterdays tepid markt 
response leads many Fed watcl 
ers to predict the chairman w 
move very cautiously, lowerii 
the federal-funds interest rai 
only a quarter of a percentag 
point. Thats a far cry from 
cuts of 1 to 11/2 points the Bus 
administration has wanted.
The market reaction t 
brings into question the thesi 
that well get a quick reduction i 
interest rates, says David Jone 
an economist at Aubrey ( 
Lanstori & Co. in New York.
The reaction of foreign lender 
who have helped finance the U.! 
economy for the past decade, isi 
particular concern. Greens] 
said earlier this year that a bui 
get deal might increase foreig 
confidence in the U.S. and lift th 
sagging dollar. Instead, the oi 
posite seems to have occurred.:
Probe of Temple Mount raises furor
JERUSALEM (DJ)  The findings of the 
Israeli investigation into the Temple Mount 
blood bath were controversial even before 
they were released because liberal Israelis 
had criticized the makeup of the commission 
as inadequate to ensure an independent in
vestigation.
The critics, who included leftist politicians 
and human rights groups, said that a judge 
should have headed the commission and it 
should have had power to subpoena witnesses.
Zvi Zamir, the commission head, is a former 
director of the Mossad spy agency. The other 
two members are a lawyer and a former senior 
civil servant.
The report was at odds with earlier inves
tigations by both Israeli and Palestinian hu
man rights groups over the question ofwhether 
live fire by police was justified.
Betselem, a group made up of liberal Israeli 
lawyers and academics, accused the police of
If this is true, this re
port will create great 
dissension not only in 
the world, but in Israel.  
 Yair Tsaban, 
Israeli Parliment Member
firing indiscriminately and, in some cases, 
with semi-automatic rifles.
It also questioned whether the low toll of 
injuries among Israeli police and civilians  
most of which were minor justified live fire 
by police by which many Palestinians were 
killed or wounded.
The Zamir Commissions report, citing po
lice figures, gave a death toll of 20 Palestin
ians - one more than the figure given by police 
at the time. It said 53 Palestinians were 
injured seriously enough to be hospitalized.
It said 21 policemen were treated at hospi
tals, mostly for body injuries from stones, 
pieces of metal and other projectiles. Nine 
Jewish civilians were injured, it said.
As the commissions findings were reported 
on the news, liberal politicians renewed their 
criticism.
The impression given by the first an
nouncement of the report is that the commit
tee sees the deaths of about 20 Palestinians 
and the injury of more than 100 Palestinians 
as a necessity that cannot be condemned, 
said Yair Tsaban of the left-wing Mapam 
Party.
If this is true, this report will create great 
dissension not only in the world, but in Israel, 
said Tsaban, a member of Parliament.
U.S. forces in Gulf will reach 240,000
Reports courtesy 
Dow Jones Inc.
WASHINGTON (D J)  Penta
gon sources said yesterday the 
U.S deployment in the Persian 
Gulf would reach the planned level 
of 240,000 in three weeks. But 
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney 
said today the administration 
never put an pper ceiling on the 
deployment.
Cheney said the administration 
still hopes for a peaceful solution 
with Iraqs Saddam Hussein but 
wants to make sure its force in the 
region offers President Bush the
option of ordering an offensive.
We want to make certain weve 
got the forces over there to deal 
with any contingency, Cheney 
said on CBS This Morning. On 
ABCs Good Morning America, 
he said, Weve not yet settled on 
an upper limitin terms of our total 
deployment. So for a number of 
reasons I would expect a continu
ing flow of forces to the gulf in the 
period ahead.
The U.S.-led multinational 
forces now total more than300,000
but still fall far short of the esti
mated 430,000 Iraqi troops de
ployed in heavily fortified posi
tions in occupied Kuwait and 
southern Iraq.
The Pentagon sources, speak
ing on the condition of anonymity, 
said that if more troops were sent 
to the region they likely would be 
heavy tank divisions, either from 
the U.S. or Europe. These sources 
also said it was possible some nonessential units might be home by 
Christmas, with the 82nd Air
borne Division a likely candidate.
Cheney said it was entirely 
possible that the 82nd would be 
rotated out and additional heavy 
units sent in. But he said no deci
sion had been made.
The 82nd Airborne is the first 
candidate to come home because 
it was the first to arrive in Saudi 
Arabia, is lightly armed and not 
designed for a tank war. Also, 
many of its troops spent last 
Christmas in Panama as part of 
the U.S. invasion force.
Iraqi 
vessel 
resumes
:
voyage
NEW YORK (AP)An Iraqi 
merchant ship boarded by U.
S. Marines is now continuing! 
its voyage. The ships mastei 
says he is bound for 
Iraq. According to the navy, 
none of the cargo on the ship 
violates the bans set by United 
Nations sanctions.
When first challenged, 
ship refused to stop so it could 
be inspected. An American, 
frigate and an Australian I 
cruiser then fired warning ^ 
shots at the merchant ship 
Two warplanes from the USi^m 
Independence also did low] 
flights over the ship. ig
Finally, the Marines flew tol 
the ship via helicopter and slid L 
down ropes to the deck.
Navy spokesman Com
mander J.D. Van Sickle sail 
that American and Australis 
inspectors spent five hours] 
searching the ship and fount 
nothing banned by the Uniti 
Nations. Van Sickle wouldn't 
say what the ship was carrying.
E
Spring Carnival 1991 needs YOU!
The spring carnival committee is a group of students that organizes and directs the various 
facets of spring carnival. The committee is looking for people who are interested in being 
involved in the following areas:
 midway  entertainment
 security  rides
 pyrotechnics  special events
 opening/closing ceremonies
If you're interested in being a part of the committee, fill out this card NOW and return it to the 
spring carnival mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk.
name---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
phone ------------------------area of interest

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 19903
Vlusic department contracts for 61 Steinways
P lea PICKETT
'artan Contributing Editor
Carnegie Mellons Music Dertment will buy 61 new pianos 
rom Steinway, by way of 
rombino Piano Gallerie, over the 
ext five years, after an agree,ent between Carnegie Mellon 
'resident Robert Mehrabian and 
Iteinway President Bruce 
Jtevens.
The money will come from a 
jnd-raising effort called The
\B game 
nimics 
jeopardy!
}y RHONDA STRUMINGER
'artan. Assistant News Editor
AB Co-Op, a division of the Carnegie 
iellon Activities Board, is now sponsorigCorroboree, a Jeopardy-like game for 
tudents.
The first of the AB Co-Op events has 
rotten off without much of a hitch, 
ccording to junior Scott Weiss, the stuent responsible for bringing Corroboree 
Carnegie Mellon.
There are 15 teams, each of three 
tudents, said Erik Nightwine, chair of 
Bs Special Events committee.
The questions for the game are writby Weiss and five other students: 
inior Scott Pakin, junior David Patrick, 
aphomore Elliott Schiff, junior Ben 
choenberg, and freshman Christopher 
tone. This same group of six also hosts, 
:ores and judges the g&mes.
The tournament consists of five quarir-final games. The winners from those 
ames and the four high scorers of the 
on-winning teams go on to three semi
nal games. The winners go on to play in 
vo December 2 final games. The top 
iree teams will receive assorted prizes.
first presented the idea to the 
B Co-Op committee at the Activities 
air.
Scott came up with the idea and we 
Bcided to go with it, said Nightwine. 
t is not expensive and if things connue to go well, we may make this a 
mester event... but that depends on 
cott and his crew.
I always liked the show Jeopardy in 
igh school and I wrote a couple of games 
)r students in Hamerschlag and 
oherty. I thought it would be a good 
lea to bring it to the rest of the school, 
lid Weiss. I hope people come watch 
id that everyone in it is having fun  
lats what its for... if its popular, Id 
ke to continue it.
Its a chance to get a little relief from 
ress, get together with your friends, 
nd show off a little, said sophomore 
iology major Michael Tomblyn.
The games are played in Wean Hall 
500 at 3 pm and 4 pm.
Piano Project, which hopes to 
raise $700,000 through alumni 
gifts and donations. The honor
ary national chair is WQED Mu
sic Director Johnny Costa, a mu
sic department alumnus, and the 
music director of the Mr. Rogers 
Neighborhood show.
The drive for the departments 
new pianos was started by a re
port from Brian Bailey, who was 
hired two years ago to provide 
full-time maintenance for the 
Universitys pianos.
In response to complaints from 
students, staff, and faculty, Bai
ley was also asked to submit a 
report on the condition of the pi
anos.
His report showed that the pi
anos were in bad shape. Of 61 
pianos, half were over 20 years 
old, 14 were over thirty years old; 
pianos only 10 years old needed 
work. According to Music De
partment Head Marilyn Thomas, 
A piano in a house gets played a 
few hours a day. These were get
ting constant use.
Thomas decided that the pianos 
needed to be replaced, and needed 
to be purchased at the rate of 10- 
12 a year to keep on top of the 
problem. The agreement with 
Steinway allowed a realistic way 
to accomplish this. While not able 
to release the exact details of the 
deal, Thomas said that the agree
ment was very special, under the 
circumstances.
[The pianos] are in horrible 
condition, said sophomore flute
major Laura Arledge. Theyre out 
of tune, some of the keys dont 
work, and you can tell theyre old. 
It affects everyone in the depart
ment.
Arledge believes the plan will 
work, though. I think its the 
only way to do it, she said. Its 
going to be tough because its a lot 
of money, but its a good idea, and 
it needs to be done.
Leadership gifts were an
nounced along with the signing. 
These gifts include a $40,000 per
sonal gift from President 
Mehrabian and his wife, Victoria, 
to buy a new concert grand piano 
for the Mellon Institute audito
rium, which is commonly used for 
student and faculty recitals and 
concerts.
The other gift announced was 
from Music Department alumna 
Martha Pickering, who donated 
money to purchase a Steinway 
Model L grand piano, which has 
already been delivered to the 
University.
Tad Dockstader/Tartan Photo Editor
Jmoth Gi RNaC.bNr 2aNFbu 2mC. pbfCh dhi pbfCh Ca ubIaCb h rbsCmag aD C.b Tbgsb Ca carrH tbtaNyv
Junior design student dies
ROSS, from page 1
death.
There was absolutely no indication 
of foul play at all, said LaPaglia.
The body was removed by the 
coroners office and the room was 
sealed. Police unit 5101 crew chief Jeff 
Meyers said, Thereisnothingwe could 
do here.
Toxicology tests must be completed 
before the exact cause of death is 
known. It will take anywhere from two 
to three weeks before the final coroners 
report is issued, according to the Al
legheny County coroners office.
At this point, theres really nothing 
we can do but wait for the toxicology 
reports, said LaPaglia.
LaPaglia said that there were pre
scription drugs in the room, but it is 
not known how much, if any, of those 
drugs were ingested.
Theres certainly no evidence of ille
gal drugs here, said LaPaglia. For 
anyone to say anything right now would 
be speculation.
The University chartered a bus to 
take 45 of Ross fraternity brothers to 
his funeral, which took place Saturday 
morning near Ross home in Chestnut
Ridge, NY, according to Dean of Student 
Affairs Michael Murphy. After the fu
neral, Ross parents invited all 45 to 
their home.
For Sigma Nu brothers, Ross death is 
doubly hard, as it is the second time 
within a year that the house has lost a 
brother. Michael Golden was killed in a 
car accident on November 4 of last year.
The funeral was real tough, said Jim 
Wiley, lieutenant commander of Sigma 
Nu. The loss of Michael Golden really 
magnifies this  but I think were going 
to be okay.
The Carnegie Mellon flag flew at halfstaff on Thursday in Ross memory.
Inter-Fraternity Council President 
John Ginsburg also sent out a memo to 
members of the Greek community ask
ing them to wear their letters inside-out 
on Friday to remember Ross, who served 
as Sigma Nus social chair this year.
Personally, I was really saddened, 
said Ginsburg. If Carnegie Mellon loses 
a student, it affects the whole campus. If 
you dont know a particular person, you 
know someone who does know that per
son. Within the Greek system, its even 
more tightly knit.... I feel that the mem
bers of the Greek system are closely
enough tied to each other that when one 
person is lost, everyone feels it. 
Ginsburg was pleased with the over
whelming Greek response to his sugges
tion.
It was really successfulI was really 
touched, he said. Im sure that every
one in the Greek system felt something, 
because were all brothers and sisters in 
a fraternal sense.
Murphy also praised the support which 
has been demonstrated by the other fra
ternities on campus.
In my term as IFC president, one of 
the things that I really wanted to show 
was that the Greeks are unified and do 
care about each other, said Ginsburg.
The Fence also bore witness to Ross 
death  one section on Thursday read 
Goodbye T and the date 10/22/90. At 
the request of Sigma Nu brothers, Delta 
Tau Delta pledges, who had held the 
Fence for a week, allocated space to Sigma 
Nu Wednesday night for painting the 
memorial message.
I think the important thing here is 
that members of the University commu
nity need to be supportive to students in 
Design and to brothers of the fraternity, 
said Murphy.
Students
remember
Ross
MEMORIAL, from page 1
Ive ever seenhe probably made 30 saves,: 
said Wiley, a junior mechanical engineer.; 
In addition to his duties as social chair, a 
position which he held for four semesters, 
Ross also would have been push chair for 
the houses buggy program this year.
Ross pledged Sigma Nu in 1986, then 
took a year off from school in 1987 for 
personal reasons, according to Wiley.
According to Sigma Nu brother Jon 
OKeefe, Ross, whose home was in Chest
nut Hills, NY, is survivedby an older brother 
and sister.
He was a really nice guy, said Butch. 
He kept to himself a little, but everyone 
knew him and liked him. He was known by 
a lot of people.
He wasnt afraid to take a chance, said; 
Wiley. Wiley described one of the fraternitys 
parties held earlier this year, known as the, 
Egg Party.
If someone did something stupid, youd 
call him an Egg, said Wiley. Ross built Egg 
 a huge egg made of styrofoam  and 
lowered it into a pool of dry ice in front of the 
house.
Ross also was largely responsible for 
Sigma Nu taking the Fence on the first day 
of classes for the first time in six years. He 
really wanted to see the house improve, 
said Wiley.
He was a really helpful person  really 
together and really organized, said Butch.
Many design students said that Ross 
would often take time out from his own job 
in the design shop to help others.
He was a good-natured person with a 
really great sense of humor, said the junior 
design major. He was quiet and reserved; 
but really sarcastic. You had to pay attenf 
tion, but I thought he was really funny. It 
came as a shock to everyone, because not 
only did nobody hate him, but everyone 
liked him.
A friend of ours said, With so many bad 
people in the world, its a shame to lose one 
of the good ones,  said the junior design 
major.
In accordance with the familys wishes, 
memorial services for Ross will be held on 
Wednesday at 4:30 pm in the Skibo Wherrett 
Room.
PiLam hosts fourth annual 
Steel City Shootout
; Pi Lambda Phi fraternity will hold its fourth annual Steel City 
hootout at Carnegie Mellon this weekend. The Steel City 
pootout is a charity event to raise money for the United Cerepal Palsy Foundation, where PiLam chapters from around the 
jjpuntry assemble to play flag football to help out UCP. Organizains, businesses and households pledge pennies for points, so 
e more points scored during the weekend event, the more 
lney for UCP.
The Steel City Shootout has been hosted by Carnegie Mellons 
Beta Zeta chapter of Pi Lambda Phi for the past four years. This 
Spars shootout will bring over twenty PiLam chapters from 
jFound the country, including chapters from MIT, the University 
jP California at Berkeley, Penn State University, and the Univer|ty ofVirginia.
University participates in 
ARTTRANSITION 90
,^Ver two dozen artists, scientists and engineers involved with 
Mellon Universitys Studio for Creative Inquiry,
51,1Cl),will participate in ARTTRANSITION 90, an internaW conference on art science and technology. The conference is 
held at MIT from today through Thursday. 
^fTRANSITION 90 was organized by MITs Center for 
vanced Visual Studies and is co-sponsored by Carnegie Melanc* seven other institutions. This conference is the first 
ge-scale gathering of representatives from over 100 arts 
ers at colleges and universities around the world.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Bryan Rogers, head of the Carnegie Mellon Art Department 
and SFCI Director, said This conference is the first opportunity 
to showcase projects and people associated with SFCI. SFCI is a 
unit of the College of Fine Arts which develops and facilitates a 
broad spectrum of interdisciplinary creative projects.
SFCI will have four projects at the conference. Among other 
events will be the installation of Boundless Cubic Lunar Aper
ture, by Lowry Burgess, dean ofCFA. This exhibit, aboard the 
space shuttle Discovery in March 1989, was the first non-scientific payload ever sent into outer space.
Alfredo Jaar exhibition 
arrives at Carnegie Mellon
The first large-scale traveling exhibition devoted to Chileanborn Alfredo Jaar will be coming to the Carnegie Mellon Art 
Gallery. The exhibit will run from November 9 to January 13.
The opening for the reception will be held at the Carnegie 
Mellon Art Gallery, on November 9, from 6 to 8 pm.
On Wednesday, November 7, Jaar will give a lecture about 
his works. The lecture will be at 7 pm in Margaret Morrison 
Hall, room 103.
The theme of Jaars exhibition is the exploitation of Third 
World nations by the industrialized world. The show includes 
seven multi-element works, including a room-size environment 
installation and a piece involving viewer interaction. A video 
about Jaar and his work, and a fully illustrated catalogue, will 
also be on display at the Gallery.
For more information about any programs at the Carnegie 
Mellon Art Gallery, call x3110. Admission to gallery events is 
free.
Student Affairs sponsors 
faculty mentor program
This semester the Division of Student Affairs is running a 
faculty mentor program, where freshmen can meet faculty 
outside their departments.
Every freshman has been placed into one of 25 groups. Orienta
tion counselors nominated 25 professors to participate as well. 
Each group meets with a professor to discuss issues such as 
midterm grades, university policies, extra-curricular activities, 
relationships, and time management. Counselors contact all 
freshman and the groups meet three times a semester.
According to Anne Witchner, assistant dean of Student Affairs, 
the program is a great idea, only attendance is pretty low.
Any freshman interested in the mentor program should call 
Student Affairs for information at x2074.
Compiled by MATT ADLER
Correction...
In the 10/22 issue, the brief Academic Services releases new 
EzMail program erroneously reported that EzMail had already 
been released. It will not be released until Thursday.
In William Kisners Letter to the Editor in the 10/22 issue 
(Cliffe preached the ultimate truth in front of the Clock), the 
sentence I am sure ... when Jesus accused him of crimes.... 
should read I am sure ... when Pilate accused him of crimes....
In the 10/22 issue, the article Deans release report incor
rectly identified Alfred Blumstein. He is the dean of SUPA.

---------------------------------------------------

Business 
Opportunities 
Conference 1990
November 1, 1990 
Skibo Ballroom 
10:30 am to 4:00 pm
All students interested in Accounting,Business, 
Economics, Finance, Graphic Communications, 
Management Information Systems, Marketing, 
Operations Research, and Production are 
invited to attend.
Companies attending include:
Kurt Salmon 
J. P. Morgan 
Mellon Bank 
Ameritrust 
PPG Industries 
Merrill Lynch 
AT&T
Hewitt Associates 
U. S. General Accounting Office 
Ernst & Young 
Information Resources 
R. R. Donnelly & Sons Co. 
Chase Manhattan 
United Telephone System 
American Management Systems
Mead Corporation 
Banta Corporation 
Command Web Offset 
Eastman Kodak 
Putnam, Hayes, & Bartlett 
International Paper 
Andersen Consulting 
Kaufmann's
Sponsored by
A IMF
Association for industrial Management andEconomics
GCMSO
Graphic Communications Management Student Organization

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 19905
Student Senate Minutes
Minutes of October 23, 1990 
Meeting called to order at 7:05 pm. 
Senators Present: Austin, Blake, 
gucholtz, Dautermann, Dean, Gelman,
; Golembiewski, Kadesh, Kaufman,
> Loomis, Moran, Neighbor, Rubinstein,
' Schaeffer, Spivack, Venable, Wyatt, 
Zucker.
Senators Excused: Barnes. 
Senators Absent: Lewis, Meek. 
Ex-Officios Present: Ginsburg(late), 
MacDonald, Rao, Dean Murphy (late), 
Dean Witchner.
Corrections of last weeks minutes: 
Rubinsteins name was spelled wrong. 
Kadesh was forgotten on the roll call. 
Bill Lewis name was spelled wrong.
Activities Board  Chris Smith: 
October 30, debate on music censorship. 
Sunday October 28, Trivia Bowl, Wean
7500,3 pm, 4 pm, and 5 pm. November 8, 
concert with a Windam Hill artist.
Student Senate Chair  Chris 
Neighbor: The secretary, M.J. Kelly, 
has quit. The Employment office has the 
job description. There is a vacancy on the 
F&R Committee, see Neighbor, senior
ity will determine the position. There 
was a suggestion to fill both vacancies, 
but turned down because it would take 
people away from committees that need 
those people. The Jasmine company no 
longer recognizes warranties, so they 
cant fix the hard drive for the computer.
Academic Affairs  Mike Austin: 
Discussing faculty advisors for new fac
ulty members.
Campus Affairs  Bill Lewis: The 
survey is in its final stages, will be final
ized for next Tuesday. A letter is in
preparation for Peter Collopy to correct 
damages to CFA and Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie Hall. Club Sports issue still 
being discussed.
Funding and Recognition  
Sateria Venable: There is one club up 
for non-funded recognition. Two more 
budget hearings are scheduled. Novem
ber 3, 10 am-3 pm in Skibo 12 and 
November 10,10 am-3 pm in Skibo 201. 
Eleven groups have been heard. The 
current budget for Special Allocations is 
approximately $7,500.
Public Relations  Mark 
Schaeffer: Referendum is on Tuesday 
the 30th of October. A Phi O is running 
the voting process. There is an ad in The 
Tartan, postering will occur this week
end. Suggested that the referendum be 
put into the 8 1/2 x 11 News, see Ed
Delaney. The ad needs the date and 
times. Each organization on campus will 
be notified to urge each member of their 
respected organization to vote yes. Sug
gestion for a poster with the pros and 
cons on it. Only the referendum is being 
voted upon. There was a comment from 
the audience that the referendum didnt 
pass last time because of Senate.
Rules  Doug Rubinstein: Recom
mended amendments to the Constitution. 
The various changes were discussed and 
tabled until next week according to the 
Constitution. Greek organizations are 
defined in the Constitution.
Discussion of Constitution: Fraterni
ties not really recognized, now they are. 
Organizations must apply to Greek 
Council to become a social Greek organi
zation. Honor fraternities must do the
same. In the past theyve come to Senate 
to be recognized.
Student Senate Approval to be tabled 
until next week: Hand Vote: 16-0-2. j 
General Discussion:
Pitts problems with student govern
ment are similar to ours. November 7th, 
Neighbor is going to Pitts government 
meeting.
There are some locked doors and it is 
not understood why: Margaret Morrison 
side to Grey Matter, the New Dorm, and 
others. It will be looked into.
Greek Leadership Retreat this past 
weekend and the response was positive. 
Ginsburg would like to thank Student 
Activities on behalf of Greek Council for 
putting it on.
Meeting Adjourned at 7:35 pm.
Submitted by Amy Blake
SDC inspects dorm-storming
DORM-STORMING, from page 1
Nathan Loofbourrow, president 
of KGB, said, There should be a 
set policy and it should include 
independent organizations, be
cause theres no reason not to.
In terms of how dorm-storming 
could help organizations such as 
his, Loofbourrow said, We could 
maybe catch five people who 
wouldnt have joined or who would 
have joined later in their junior or 
senior year. What we really want 
to do is to try to give students a 
flavor of the campus as early as 
possible.
Andy Edmonds, Greek Council 
public relations chair, said he feels 
that SDC has really tried to be 
accomodating.
Were trying to make a policy 
that doesnt hurt the fraternities 
but makes it a little more equal 
for everyone concerned, said 
Rhoads.
The policy under consideration
now includes setting the period 
for dormstorming at a maximum 
of three weeks, from Sunday 
through Thursday. No more than 
four organizations would be al
lowed in a residence area per 
night, and no more than two 
members from each canvassing 
organization could visit an indi
vidual room.
Laken said that everyone is 
working towards the same goal 
but that the fraternities and the 
independent organizations have 
different needs.
For the fraternities, the most 
important thing is having the 
chance to sign up for the times 
that best complement their Rush 
schedule.
For the independent organiza
tions, the concern is not which 
particular times they can obtain, 
but being able to divide them up 
more because of their smaller 
number of members.
Therefore, the policy allows the 
fraternities to have the first 
chance to sign up for the time 
slots that they need and they are 
required to leave open a certain 
number of slots for the other or
ganizations.
Greek Council is fully in sup
port of other organizations 
dormstorming, said Edmonds.
He expressed concern, however, 
over whether under a more 
structured policy, the fraternities 
could still get their Rush calen
dars out and publicize Rush 
events at key times during the 
first few weeks of the fall semes
ter.
I think the policy will work, 
said Edmonds, but its a little 
limiting.... It will probably have 
to be revamped next year if we get 
a lot more organizations which 
are interested in dorm-storming. 
My biggest concern now is the 
Housing Office. We have to get
something thats acceptable to 
them.
SDC member Walt Schearer 
expressed concern over the feel
ings of the residents concerning 
dorm-storming. The people who 
are bothered by current dorm
storming are people who dont 
want to get involved, so theyre 
not likely to care enough to com
plain, he said. It is these people 
that Im concerned about.
Rhoads also said that once they 
come up with a policy that 
accomodates the organizations, 
they will have to make sure it is 
one that is best for the residents 
of the dorms.
Because the issue doesnt need 
to be resolved until next semester, 
Laken said they are not really 
working under a deadline.
Wed rather come up with a 
nice policy that makes everyone 
happy rather than pushing 
something through, he said.
Attention 
Designers:
THE TARTAN needs designers to work
on the production staff.
An excellent chance to:
 Use your design skills freely
 See your work in print
 Gain experience in a design 
related field
 Collect work for your portfolio
Working production is not a big time 
committment, and it's a lot of fun.
If you are interested, or want more 
information, contact Beth Moses at 
The Tartan office (Skibo 50) X2111.
Attention All Students:
If you are planning to take 
computer science courses
Computer Science Preliminary 
Registration
Registration forms are available in Wean Hall 6126.
Completed forms are due in Wean 6126 
by 4:00 pm October 31, 1990
Questions, contact Becky or Maria at ext. 3344 or 3342

---------------------------------------------------

6The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 1990
Burglars filch ID machine
ID, from page 1
was about the same. Since the 
thieves didnt get away with any 
validation stickers, DAs are also 
checking to be sure that each per
son to whom they allow entrance 
has a validated ID.
Its just a pain, she added.
Entropy is another establish
ment which has seen policy 
changes due to the theft. The 
store is now requiring a second ID 
in-order to make a purchase.
The students who come in here 
are in a hurry, said Sue Nebinski, 
a weekend supervisor at Entropy.
A lot of students dont carry 
cash, just their IDs. Now, if the 
ca^d reader doesnt take it, we
'Its just a pain.
 Heidi Meyhof er, 
desk attendant
cant even punch the numbers 
in.... We have to get Validine us
ers to sign a paper with their 
social security number and name, 
then, for each sale, we have to put 
in the amount and sign it as well.
Nebinski said that the inconve
nience bothered some students, 
but most understood.
Students who are employed by 
the University also need a second 
form of photo ID to pick up their
paychecks.
Cashiers in facilities run by 
Carnegie Mellon Dining Services 
will also checking ID cards espe
cially closely.
According to Keatings memo, 
These immediate measures are 
being taken to protect the cam
pus community and may present 
some temporary inconvenience. 
Your cooperation is greatly ap
preciated.
Students face Fee hike
REFERENDUM, from page 1
hard to believe they need more.
Many students said that they 
didnt really know where the 
Activities Fee goes. Senior Ray 
Atkins, a math/operations re
search and economics major, 
said, I have some idea where 
the money goes, but not any
thing specific. Atkins also said 
that he didnt believe that most 
other students knew, either.
A big part of the reason that 
last years vote failed is that a 
lot of people dont know where 
their money goes, said Student 
Senate Chair Chris Neighbor. 
Weve tried as hard as we can
to tell people. This year, were 
trying harder to educate people 
as to what the money is for.
Senate uses the money from 
the Activities Fee and allocates it 
to all Senate-funded organiza
tions on campus, including Spring 
Carnival, WRCT, and AB.
A semester ahead of time, the 
organizations submit a budget 
that the Funding and Recogni
tion committee reviews. The bud
gets are then put before the full 
Senate and reviewed, then voted 
on, said Neighbor.
Kalemba said he thought that 
there would be some opposition 
to the proposed increase.
Adkins agreed. Senate 
should deal with the amount of 
money that they have, he said. 
They overbudgeted, now they 
have to deal with it.
Neighbor said, The Activi
ties Fee is the major funding 
base for student organizations. 
Without this increase, activi
ties run by clubs on this campus 
will be severely hurt.
Right now, the money we 
have allocated for the spring is 
not enough to through the se
mester, said Neighbor. Some 
of them may not operate at their 
full capacity, and some may not 
operate at all.
Crime and Incident Report
10/20 CRIMINAL MIS
CHIEF, 12:52 am. Campus 
Police reported that the 
color of paint found 
splashed on a car parked in 
front of the Margaret 
Morrison store fronts was the same color 
of the newly painted Fence. The Fence 
was painted with Kappa Kappa Gamma 
letters in that color. Paint spattered on 
the. sidewalk by the laundry room was 
tracked in by shoes and a distinct trail 
was followed to Kappa Kappa Gammas 
patio where fence painting parapherna
lia such as brushes and rollers with the 
same color bluish grey paint were soak
ing in turpentine.
10/20 INDECENT EXPOSURE, 12:52 
am. Campus Police officers observed two 
men streaking across Forbes Avenue and 
running across the Cut towards the Fence. 
The' men were then seen running back to 
the fraternity quad and going into the 
Delta Tau Delta fraternity house. Delta 
Tau Delta received a house citation for 
indecent exposure.
10/20 RECOVERED PROPERTY/ 
POSSIBLE THEFT, 2:11 am. Campus
Police found an stereo system, composed 
of an AM/FM receiver with a cassette 
recorder/player, an eight-track player, 
and a turntable, with 30 albums outside 
of Chi Omega sorority and was trans
ported to Baker Hall for safe keeping.
10/20 MEDICAL, 5:00 pm. The 
brother of a Carnegie Mellon student hit 
himself in the right temple with his own 
racquet while playing racquetball with 
his brother. He suffered a small lacera
tion above his right eye and was trans
ported to Childrens Hospital.
10/21 VIOLATION OF LIQUOR 
LAWS, 1:11 am. Campus Police found a 
student carrying a pitcher of beer 
alongside the stadium walkway. When 
the student saw the police, she emptied 
the pitcher and began to walk away. The 
officers had to call her twice before she 
would stop. At first, she denied being a 
Carnegie Mellon student, but after a 
state citation for Disorderly Conduct was 
written, she produced a CMU ID. She 
then became aggressive and insisted that 
she should not be given a citation. She 
cited the fact that CMU police have 
never done any enforcement of alcohol
rules and when asked for her address 
stated that I dont have to tell you any
thing. Finally, she told the police the 
information and had the appeal process 
explained to her at least three times.
10/21 VEHICLE DAMAGE, 4:00 am. 
Campus Police were notified of a major 
accident on Morewood between Forbes 
Avenue and Fifth Avenue. A Jeep 
Wagoneer, green with a Styrofoam hu
man head taped to the hood, had damage 
to the right side in both the front and the 
rear. The driver and passengers said 
that they had hit a pole and would worry 
about it in the morning. Later, however, 
many people were congregated around 
the Jeep Wagoneer. Those congregated 
said that they had just heard crashes 
and discovered damage to their cars 
parked behind Pi Lambda Phi and Sigma 
Nu. The driver of the Wagoneer, when 
confronted, admitted to hitting the cars. 
He said that he had been fooling around 
within the car as it drove by and lost 
control; they were scared and pulled 
away.
10/21 SIMPLE ASSAULT, 7:21 pm. 
While crossing Morewood Avenue at
Forbes Avenue, a student touched a car 
with his hand as it creeped ahead during 
the red light. The driver got out of the 
vehicle and and got into a verbal confron
tation with the student about the light. 
The driver then punched the student 
twice in his left eye. There was a scuffle 
and the driver and student fell to the 
ground. The driver then got up, entered 
his vehicle and drove down Forbes Av
enue towards Oakland. The driver was 
described as being in his early twenties, 
having a dark complexion, being medium 
in height and having a stocky build.
10/22 MEDICAL ESCORT, 7:57 pm. 
While lifting weights in the gym weight 
room, a student accidently dropped a 50- 
pound dumbbell on the fourth finger of 
his left hand. The student stated that he 
felt his finger snap when the weight hit. 
He was transported to Presbyterian 
Hospital by Campus Police.
10/22 MEDICALESCORT, 10:19 pm. 
A student accidently cut his right thumb 
while operating a bandsaw. ' He was 
working on a project in his room when 
the accident occurred. He was trans
ported to Presbyterian Hospital.
10/23 HARASSMENT BY COMMUNICATION, 7 pm. A student notified 
Campus Police that an unknown man 
threatened to kill him. The student had 
received a phone call from a pizza deliv
ery man who said that his pizza was 
ready. The student hadnt ordered a pizza 
and so the delivery man asked the stu
dent to call his manager to explain that 
the mistake wasnt the delivery mans 
fault. The student did as he was askc 
but later received a call from someone 
identifying himself as the manager. The 
student heard a loud commotion in the 
background that sounded like people 
fighting.
Finally, someone got on the phone to 
say that the delivery man had just gotten 
fired because of the student. The caller 
said that me and my cousin know your 
phone extension and what dorm you live 
in... we are going to come over to kill 
you! Campus Police called the number 
the student had been given and asked for 
the manager. They were hung up on and 
the investigation continues.
Compiled by 
RHONDA STRUMINGER
NEW COURSE ON VALUES
sROaS ,pg3aeieSm Oa N3p uiMRREeeI
80-205 Knowledge & Values 9 units 
MWF 10:30-11:20 Robert Cavalier 
No prerequisites. Enrollment: 25
Everyone has values. Everyone acts on values. We all argue about values: our own values, 
others' values, our own actions, the conduct of others, what's right, what's wrong, what's good, 
what's bad, what society should permit, what society should prohibit. Disputes about values 
underlie all controversies that affect our lives and divide our society, not only the "headline" 
life-and-death issues such as whether abortion should be permitted or whether people have 
a right to die. Is there method to these controversies, or is it anarchy?
This course is an introduction to ethics and fundamental questions about human values: What 
do we value? What should we value? What is right, or wrong? What is good, or bad? How 
do we decide? How can we judge? How can we know? What can we do when we disagree? 
Is there any basis for resolving conflicts in values? Are there tools for mediating differences 
in values? We will look at the history of these questions, the major theories of ethics, and 
compelling contemporary case studies in which these questions are made very vivid and 
concrete.
This course will make innovative and extensive use of audio-visual media (film and video), 
interactive computer media (award-winning videodiscs), and electronic communication 
media to bring vivid reality into the classroom and to increase the opportunities for free 
exploration and independent inquiry as well as group discussion and collaborative learning:
Harvard's Project Perseus, a Macintosh-based hypermedia database containing 
the literature, art, architecture, and geography of ancient Greek civilization, to 
dramatize the cultural roots of ethics in the agora (marketplace) of Athens in the 
days of Socrates.
An "electronic agora," a class forum for ongoing discussions and dispute outside 
the classroom tied to course assignments and class activities.
Software for collaborative writing, to facilitate collaborative learning and exchange.
Multimedia presentations in class, including extensive use of video and dramatic 
case studies, and interactive videodiscs for exploring the case material outside of 
class.
An online hypertext course syllabus, providing every student with a annotated 
guide to the course, lecture outlines, and a dynamic framework for organizing 
course notes.
Thursday, 
November 15,1990
David L. Lawrence 
Convention Center
Entrepreneurs Day
You Can Do It Too!
Entrepreneurs Day features:
Workshops on the "how to of business conducted by successful entrepreneurs 
A Business Resource Center
Keynote address by Robert M. Thompson, Jr., Founder and Vice Chairman of Redshaw, Inc. 
Presented by: _________
The Enterprise Corporation of Pittsburgh 
Sponsored by: _________
Ben Franklin Technology Center 
of Western Pennsylvania 
Eckert Seamans Cherin & Mellott 
Executive Report Magazine 
Geisler & Co., P.C., CPAs 
New Sessions Include:
Mellon Bank, N.A.
Parente, Randolph, Orlando, Carey 
& Associates, CPAs 
Pittsburgh High Technology Council 
Chris A. Pogozelski, P.C., CPA
Accounting for Emerging Companies 
Building a Successful Service Business 
Buying a Business 
Developing a Winning Business Plan 
Understanding Marketing Communications 
Growing an Established Business 
Hiring and Motivating Employees
Business Law 101 - For the Entrepreneur 
Marketing Step-By-Step 
Raising Debt and Equity 
Raising Government Money 
Starting a Business From Your Home 
Starting a Restaurant 
Turning an Idea Into a Business
Early Registration FormEntrepreneurs Day
Costs:
Registration, including luncheon, colfee breaks, and reception (cash bar)$60.00
Full-time student (Please enclose photocopy of I.O.)$30.00
Luncheon only
n I want In reraster I've finnlnseri a r.heck fnr $
$30.00
? I want additional information. Please send a conference brochure.
Make checks payable lo: The Enterprise Corporation of Pittsburgh, 4516 Henry Street, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213,412/578-3481.
Name
OrganizationDay Phone
Address
CityState Zip

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 19907 5
CONFLICTS, from page 1
nur, or the day of atonement, is the most 
mportant. On that day, people of the 
Jewish faith attend services, pray and 
rast for 25 hours and are not allowed to
Rabbi examines scheduling conflicts
jo anywork.
[Even those] Jewish people who might 
not consider themselves to be very relirious would observe that day, said Dr. 
sjorman Chigier, of the department of 
Mechanical Engineering.
According to Indianer, what most 
3eople do not know  and what most 
alendars dont indicate  is that Yom 
ftppur and Rosh Hashana, like all 
Jewish holidays, begin at sunset the 
irevious day.
I think we need to alert faculty 
nembers and the campus community 
n enough time for them to plan  of all 
)fthe holidays [ J ewish as well as of other 
eligions], Campana said. At the same 
;ime, he said, it is important for the 
University to leave control of class 
schedules in the hands of the faculty. 
Some institutions ... that have a miority of Jewish students will shut down 
Juringthe more serious Jewish holidays 
out of respect for the Jewish faith, reof the demographics, feeling 
hats a commitment they want to make, 
because theyre making a statement 
about sensitivity to the extreme sacredess of these High Holy Days, Levine 
lid.
Life is a matter of compromise and 
egotiation, and Im not trying to be 
unrealistic, but deep down inside, as a 
abbi, I think it would be a great gesture
if [CMU were to shut down during these 
holidays as well].... But I think, also, 
that there are a number of other mea
sures short of closing down the univer
sity.
According to Campana, a pamphlet 
from the National Conference of Chris
tians and Jews, Inc., which outlines im
portant holidays of various religions 
between now and 1992, is being distrib
uted to faculty and students.
The question is, said Chigier, who 
did not see the pamphlet, who on cam
pus had this [pamphlet] and who took 
notice of it? Clearly, hardly anybody.... 
The information is available if you ask 
for it. The problem here is that most of 
the people who should know about it 
were not aware and were not informed 
and could not be expected to know.
Weve always circulated calendars of 
holidays, said Levine, but now were 
going to do it in a different way ... with 
more specific information and personal 
interaction.
According to Chigier, as early as 1982, 
a list of the Jewish holidays used to be 
handed out to all faculty with the re
quest to avoid having exams and major 
homework assignments on those days. 
The circulation of such a list, however, 
has since stopped, but one such list, 
distributed by ECE professor Stanley 
Charap, still circulates among the Elec
trical Engineering Department.
When Earl Swank was dean of stu
dents, Charap said, he distributed a 
list [of the Jewish holidays] to faculty 
every year. When that stopped, people in
It makes things really tough, especially 
missing out the two days for the Rosh 
Hashana holiday and then the one day for the 
Yom Kippur holiday. 
 Jan Meisler, 
AEPi brother
the department started asking me about 
this list... so I thought I would continue 
what used to be done and distribute a list 
myself.... Ive been doing this for a few 
years now.
If Im the primary lecturer of a smaller
 say, a graduate  course, I cancel the 
class and schedule the exams for another 
day.... In a larger undergraduate course, 
I assign a teaching assistant to give my 
lecture, said Electrical Engineering 
professor T.E. Schlesinger, himself Jew
ish. Since the issue affects me person
ally, I feel sensitive to the Jewish stu
dents in my class.
Neither Chigier nor Schlesinger 
worked during the two Jewish holidays.
According to Indianer, with Yom Kip
pur starting the evening before, perhaps 
with dinner with the family, a student 
has to begin getting ready at 3 or 3:30 
pm, eat a big dinner before the fast, 
attend 7:30 pm services, fast all the next 
day, and then, according to Dave Rosen, 
also of Alpha Epsilon Pi, at the end of 
the day, you then break fast and you
have to take a meal because you havent 
eaten, and after a big meal and a day of 
fasting, of course youve lost that evening, 
too.
Youre quite tired, Indianer added.
It makes things really tough, espe
cially missing out the two days for the 
Rosh Hashana holiday and then the one 
day for the Yom Kippur holiday, said 
Jan Meisler, also of Alpha Epsilon Pi.
For myself its harder than for other 
people, because Im religious and I ob
serve the holiday that comes five days 
after Yom Kippur [the Sukkot, of which 
the first two and last two days, observant 
Jews do not work]. So thats missing out 
about nine days of classes.... Even if the 
professors are willing to excuse you of an 
exam, it just makes everything else you 
do in the course count so much more.... I 
just caught up finally this week.
Im still a day and a half behind, said 
Indianer.
Although Levine is optimistic about 
the Universitys efforts to prevent future 
campus collisions with the Jewish holi
days, he hopes that Carnegie Mellolf'* 
will not impede the opportunity for stu< 
dents to express their Jewish identity-' > 
and will give them the freedom to obey'- 
the commandments of their faith, to at*'** 
tend the religious services without fear 
that by doing so, they would miss an 
important assignment or lab or mid
term. rsrT
All of us who have been in this profes-'1 Jo 
sion of studying student development,-^ 
Levine continued, realize that in lateadolescence, early young adulthood, one 
of the life tasks is to square off with :: 
childhood religious identity and renegot 
tiate that and come to terms with it.... 
[Reaching] that personal, mature', .- 
thought-out philosophy of faith takes a I 
long time, and one of the things college'; 
can do is to help a person in that process 
and facilitate that process.
If the opportunity [to develop in ones^S 
faith] is not there because a student hasr 
a conflict with a major assignment due . ^ 
and has to be in class at 10 am on Rosh. 
Hashana morning or theres some con-, ___ 
ference going on ... if the student is ambivalent, all of that is going to push her
or him toward the side of I better take 
care of the business at the University 
and deal with the agenda of my religious,. 
self-awareness later.

Its not looking at this just as a J ewish, '1 
problem, but looking at it as a problem of lM 
not only how do we deal within the" 1 
university culture, which obviously is v 
the enrichment of the mind, but how do ^5 
we look to the heart and the soul as 
well?.
Tartan Photography
S i jHgr
CMU naval ROTC 
captures top honors
A
.. A v ? '
Come Join The Crowd
Tuesday 8 pin in Skibo 50 or call Tad at x2111
By CHRIS BAREFORD
Special to The Tartan
Two Carnegie Mellon naval 
ROTC unit teams were successful 
in winning trophies for the Uni
versity at Penn State Universitys 
First Annual Invitational Drill 
Meet and Military Excellence 
Competition, which was held Oc
tober 20 and 21 in State College.
The NROTC drill team, com
manded by Midshipman Ensign 
John Heyel, a junior in CIT, placed 
second overall in the drill compe
tition, which consisted of squad, 
platoon, and trick drill routines. 
Contributing to the overall point 
totals was the first place victory 
in the trick routine category by 
the squad commanded by Mid
shipmen Lieutenant Chris Cory, 
asenior in H&SS. Carnegie 
Mellons drill platoon, com
manded by Midshipman Third 
Class Christian Bareford, placed 
third.
The performance of the Military 
Excellence Competition Team
(MEC) was even more impressiveM: 
than that of the drill team.  K ,J
Commanded by Midshipmen 1'1. 
Chief Petty Officer Karl Brower, 
a junior in MCS, the team placed 
first overall. The competition was 
based upon scores in the catego! 
ries of pull-ups, sit-ups, a threeI 
mile run, a 10-kilometer run, pis.- ;! 
tol firing, and a mile relay. T. !
With the exception of a fourth ,! 
place finish in the pistol competition, the CMU MEC Team placed ! 
first in every category.
Especially notable were the accomplishments of Midshipman \ 
Third Class RichHayes, who came  
in first in the 10k run, and Midshipmen Bill Isaacs, Allan Rob; 
erts, Jason Cassano, and Jeff ! 
Gregor, who won first pi ace in the ! 
mile relay with a time of 3:31. *
RESEARCH PAPERS18,500 lo choose from - all subjccls 
Order Catalog Today with Visa/MC or COD
I 800-351-0222
In Calif. (213) 477-8226 Or.'rush S2.00 io: Research Assistance 11322 Idaho Ave. 206-SN Los Angeles. CA 90025 Custon research availableall levels
Pittsburgh Ballroom Dance Festival
2-4 November 1990 
Carnegie Mellon University Campus
Amateur competitions with accredited judges, featuring International, American, and Social dance styles. Costumes 
encouraged!
Festival format based on the USABDA College Network intercollegiate/intercontinental Dance Festivals.
Workshops at all experience levels, taught by professional instructors.
Two social dances, including the big band sound of Frank Lasko on Sunday.
Tickets available at the door.
Friday, November 2 
5:00pm 
6:00pm 
8:00pm 
Saturday, November 3 
10:00am
Sunday, November 4
9:00am 
1:00pm 
2:00pm
2:30pm-5:30pm
For more information, contact:Cindy Wood, Festival Chairperson 
Aki Ohshima, Club President
Schedule
Registration
Competitor Practice Session 
Ice-breaker Dance ($3)
Amateur Competitions ($15 - competitors, $10 - spectators) 
Professional Exhibitions 
Social Dancing between competition heats
Dance Workshops ($20)
Four workshops with professional instructors 
Awards Ceremony 
Farewell Dance ($5)
with the Frank Lasko Band (semi-formal attire suggested)
Sponsored by the Carnegie Mellon University Ballroom Dance Club, Pittsburgh 
Area Studios, and the U.S. Amateur Ballroom Dance Association (USABDA)

---------------------------------------------------

FORUMMNPER TUB MiC^<>coPB
Vote Yes on Activities Fee
...Ten dollars a semester probably
wont buy you a new sweater. It 
might get you a couple of pairs of 
socks, or a new album. But it will 
help to bring new, dynamic student organizations to campus  
and more importantly, it will help 
keep those organizations we al
ready have from dying out.
. All spring student organiza
tions (that is, most of them) were 
hit with a 14 percent budget cut 
.his fall, which follows other, 
smaller cuts made last year. Many 
groups simply cant afford to pro
gram on a campus-wide level 
anymore.
Campus organizations have 
demonstrated a tremendous potential for growth over the past 
few years. In fact, theyve demon
strated so much growth that Stu
dent Senate has effectively been 
.funding them at the level of a 
$100 a year Activities Fee. The 
campus hasnt known what its 
like to live on an $80-a-year Fee 
for two or three years now. What 
many people dont seem to realize 
"is that if the Activities Fee is not 
"raised, not only will the campus 
not see new organizations, but 
jnany of the ones which currently 
.exist will be forced to fold for lack 
' "ef funds.
....Senate draws on the Activities
Fee to financially support organi...zations it feels improve the qual-ffey of life for students on campus 
organizations like the crew 
-team, the Kiltie Band, WRCT, the 
"Student Union, The Tartan, and 
"countless others. Raising the Fee 
 is essential to maintaining the 
level of student activity which the 
campus has demonstrated that it 
wants and needs.
Of course, the ultimate respon
sibility for good fiscal manage
ment lies in Senates hands. We 
cant promise you that Senate will 
always make the most intelligent 
or representative decisions about 
funding organizations. We can 
promise you, though, that if the 
Fee doesnt go up, Senate wont 
have any funds to make decisions 
about.
The campus community had th 
opportunity to raise the Activities 
Fee last May  an opportunity 
which it squandered, largely due 
to ignorance.
Many students didnt know the 
full story about why the Fee raise 
was necessaryand still is. Some 
students rejected the increase on 
a gut reaction, without thinking 
about the consequences. Others 
were simply ignorant of the fact 
that there was a referendum at 
all.
Still others voted against the 
Fee hike because Senate had just 
decided to partially fund Greek 
rush  a decision which was re
versed due to lack of funds after 
the referendum failed. (Similar 
worries about funding of Greek 
events this time around are un
founded  no such proposal is 
currently before Senate.)
We urge you to vote yes on the 
referendum, which will be held 
tomorrow outside Doherty Hall.
You could throw away that ex
tra ten dollars in a couple of trips 
to Entropy. Or, you could use it to 
save campus organizationsand 
to promote new ones. Tomorrows 
referendum is a second chance to 
vote for improving the quality of 
life at Carnegie Mellon. This time, 
lets not waste it.
X 500
fctt D ' ?o
In Alt Mori
Terence essn&b-mo
Choice of words hurts gay community
bCCbN Ca 
C.b ,umCaN
Goodbye, Terence Ross
Editor;
First of all, I would 
like to commend you 
for your excellent se
ries of articles on gay 
issues in the October 
22 issue of The Tartan. I would, however, 
like to point out two items that bothered 
me in the story that started on the front 
page [Display evokes harassment]. I do 
this with some hesitancy, since Student 
Affairs Dean Michael Murphy and The 
Tartan are rational and often helpful 
friends of the bisexual/gay/lesbian com
munity at Carnegie Mellon. I hope that 
Dean Murphy, The Tartan, and others 
accept this letter as constructive criti
cism and make an effort to be more 
careful about their choice of words in the 
future.
The first item that caught my atten
tion was an unfortunate, and I assume 
unintentional, choice of words used by 
Murphy. He is quoted as saying College 
is the first time that most people are 
exposed to people of a different sexual 
orientation. In addition to the negative 
connotations that the word exposed 
conjures, the statement is simply incor
rect. The statement implies that straight
people grew up in one place, bisexuals 
grew up in a separate place, and homo
sexuals grew up elsewhere, only to come 
together in college. In reality, we have all 
been associating with people of different 
sexual orientations our entire lives. Ev
ery single one of us, whether we know it 
or not, has at least one close friend or 
family member whose primary sexual 
orientation is different from our own.
The second item I object to is the head
line on page LI where the front page 
story continues. That headline read, 
Gays are harassed for their choice of 
sexual orientation. I dont know about 
the person who wrote that headline, but 
I did not choose my sexual orientation.
I dont know if my sexual orientation is 
determined biologically, psychologically, 
astrologically, or in some other way, but 
I certainly did not choose it.
If sexual orientation was chosen by a 
person, then it could be changed. I doubt 
that there are many people who could 
decide one day that they were going to 
change their sexual orientation and do 
it. Even if we could, why would anybody 
choose to be homosexual in a society a 
violently anti-gay as ours? The idea that 
homosexuals and bisexuals choose their 
sexual orientation while straights just 
are that way is simply hogwash.
While these may seem like minor, nit
picking semantic arguments, they i 
pear in a context that purports to be 
neutral and unbiased. This langi 
subtly and subliminally reinforces 
societys perception that people of differ
ent sexual orientations do not exist, and 
even if they do, it is because of a choice 
that they made. It is this denial ; 
discounting of other people that accom
modate the denial of human and politi
cal rights to them.
R.C. Bates 
School of Urban and Public Affairs
The death of junior Terence Ross 
is a great tragedy for Carnegie 
Mellon.
.. . Wed like to offer our sympathy 
io the brothers of Sigma Nu, to his 
fellow design students, and to his 
; -family and friends. He was often 
described as a dedicated, goodnatured, caring person who 
: strived for perfection in all aspects 
of his life. It was not uncommon 
for Ross to be found helping oth
ers, even though his own work 
might suffer for it. And as social 
chair of Sigma Nu, he strived to 
improve the quality of life for his 
fraternity brothers.
Ross was a respected member of 
the campus community, and there 
are many people here who will 
miss him terribly. As one of Rosss 
friends put it, With all the bad 
people in the world, its a shame to 
lose one of the good ones.
Gay issues received too much coverage
Editor:on
What youll find on these pages
Weve got a little space left this 
jjveek, and we thought now would 
be a good time to clear up some 
misconceptions about The 
Tartans Forum section.
We find a lot of value in the 
exchange and even the frequent 
..clash of ideas. The Forum pages 
are our way of fostering free 
speech, so we try to provide a 
spectrum of opinions to allow you, 
our readers, to be the judges.7 To that end, youll find three 
types of written pieces here:
1 Letters to the editor may be 
written by anybody, although 
 when space gets tight we will fa
vor those from members of the 
University community. As read
ers, you should realize that opin
ions represented in a letter are 
those of the author and not of The 
Tartan. All letters are subject to 
editing for size and grammar, but 
"never for content.
Of course, we reserve the right 
J~to reject letters we feel are libel
ous, obscene, or incoherent. But 
well be glad to discuss any letter 
with the author and see if we cant 
reach a compromise.
While we are willing to withhold 
names from letters to the editor, 
our editor-in-chief does need to 
know who wrote them. Please, 
dont send us anonymous letters 
 it just makes us gnash our 
teeth, because we have no way to 
contact the authors.
Editorials always appear in the 
leftmost columns of the first Fo
rum page. They are unsigned be
cause they represent a consensus 
opinion of The Tartans editorial 
board.
While we believe our editorials 
offer sensible, accurate commen
tary, please feel free to disagree 
with us  we dont have a mo
nopoly on the truth.
Columns are regularly appear
ing opinions presented by indi
viduals who are usually members 
of the CMU community. Opinions 
in columns are those of the colum
nists and not ofThe Tartan. Again, 
feel free to disagree with them.
That about sums up our Forum 
section. We hope it makes for some 
thought-provoking reading, and 
were always open to suggestions 
for ways of improving it.
I am writing in re
sponse to the contents 
of the October 22 ediLetter tO 
tion of The Tartan, j.u_ 
specifically the fact the Ed,tr 
that a disproportionate space was de
voted to issues surrounding the homo
sexual community.
Skimming the headlines throughout 
the paper, I noticed eleven articles, edi
torials, and letters addressing the state 
of the homosexual community. This wide 
coverage of a topic that is of little or no 
interest to the vast majority of the 
Carnegie Mellon student body led to that 
particular issue ofThe Tartan being la
belled The CMU Out Newsletter by 
several students I talked to during the 
week.
The Tartan should realize that most 
CMU students just arent interested in 
campus homosexuals, for one reason or 
another. Personally, homosexuality vio
lates my Christian values. For example, 
while Matthew 22:37 says, ...Love your 
neighbor as you love yourself,  
Levicticus 18:22 specifically states, No 
man is to have sexual relations with 
another man; God hates that. Based on 
this teaching, I neither condone homo
sexuality, nor am I sympathetic to ho
mosexuals cause. This is my stand on 
the issue; I would not define it as 
homophobic, as some choose to call it. 
Others reject homosexuals for different 
reasons.
The fact is,The Tartan gave too much 
press to this topic and neglected other 
issues. I, for one, would have liked to
have read more about Carnegie Mellons 
business schools recent ranking in 
BusinessWeek. Granted, that news was 
covered also, but in far less detail than 
Gays prohibited from ROTC, which 
enjoyed an extensive article and an out
landish editorial. On the other hand, the 
GSIA article was more pertinent to the 
entire school  not just a select minor
ity.
This is not to say, of course, that The 
Tartan should not report on minority 
issuesthat is not my point. But by the 
precedent set in the October 22 issue, 
future editions should devote such ex
tensive coverage to the issues of all mi
norities.
Michael T. Callihan 
Freshman, MCS
ROTC must admit gays to be all it can be
on
bCCbN Ca 
C.b ,umCaN
Editor:
The attempts by the 
Department of De
fense to justify the re
fusal to allow gays and 
lesbians into the 
ROTC program are at best a sign of 
moral cowardice and at worst a conces
sion to the worst forms of bigotry and 
stereotypes. The assumption that allow
ing gays into the armed services would 
create disciplinary problems is strange 
since there are standards for military 
behavior which should apply regardless 
of a persons sexual orientation. To refuse 
a person entrance into the armed forces 
because others might not feel comfort
able around that person is to give in to 
the irrational fears and prejudices of the 
ignorant.
The point is simple: one should not be 
forced to affirm or deny ones sexual 
orientation before entering ROTC or the 
armed services. This is a private matter 
which should be of no concern to employ
ers, administrators, the government, or 
the military. The only issues concerning 
the admission and retention of persons 
in ROTC should be competence, level of 
skill, development, and the ability to
conduct oneself professionally.
If there is one lesson we should have 
learned (and are still learning) from the 
struggle for racial equality, it is that 
discriminatory practices not only make 
victims of the targets of the discrimina
tion, but also victimize those who prac
tice the discrimination.
For many people, ROTC is the most 
logical route to a college education. It is 
a self-defeating policy to deny qualified 
and intelligent persons who have leader
ship ability access to the funding and 
training which ROTC provides. This 
policy is all the more absurd when it is 
based on inordinate fears concerning 
ones sexual preferences. Such a policy is 
harmful both to the military and to the 
individuals who aspire to develop their 
natural abilities to the fullest extent 
possible, but instead are victims of this 
kind of outrageous prejudice and dis
crimination.
The policy of discrimination against 
persons based on sexual preference has 
not kept gays and lesbians out of the 
armed services  it has only succeeded 
in keeping them in the closet while they 
served in the military. The people at the 
Department of Defense are deluding
themselves if they believe otherwise, as 
the testimonies of many gays and lesbi
ans who have served with honor within 
the armed services have made clear. 
While the current policy may discourage 
some persons from entering the am 
services, it also makes life difficult for 
those now serving, despite the current 
restrictions. Must one be subjected to an 
atmosphere of hatred, fear, suspicion 
and repression, and be forced to 'resort to 
lies, just to have the opportunity to dem
onstrate and develop ones abilities by 
serving ones country? This is the atmo
sphere the current policy creates.
The armed forces are diminished no 
only by the loss of the persons they trylt 
exclude, but also by the negative atn'c 
sphere they create with these homophob-! 
policies. Anyone in'ROfTC who is wr?5
tling with his/her own uncertainties con 
cerning sexual preference is not helpe 
by an intolerant environment vvni 
threatens to cut off his/her funding ^ e 
she comes to the wrong conclusions01 
makes the wrong choice. Those 'v 0 
have resolved the question of sex' 
preference in a way that ROTC does ^ 
approve of may be best advised to 
Please see ROTC, Pai

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 19909
Pass/Fail Proposal shows the need for modifications
Recently the Retroactive FirstYear Pass/Fail proposal was of
fered to help Carnegie Mellon 
students overcome pressures 
during their freshman year. In 
my estimation, the intent is de
sirable, but the current means 
are unacceptable. Although the 
effects of the proposed plan seem 
to do nothing to improve the sta
tus quo, I do not see why a revised 
plan could not benefit the student 
body.
Under the current initi ati ve, the 
student would be allowed to 
change his or her first-year grades 
of ABCDR to P/F grades after 
completing his or her freshman 
year. Employers would see only 
what the student decided he or 
she wanted to show. The problem 
is that the student still will be 
assumed to have done poorly if he 
or she does not report what letter 
he or she received for a
course. Thus, the plan makes all 
the students grades look poor 
even if only a few of them had 
suffered.
The committee overseeing this 
proposal made some comments in 
the September 24 issue of The 
Tartan [Presidential committee 
proposes P/F plan], which dis
tressed me. I quote, ... if an em
ployer sees first year ABCDR 
grades on some CMU transcripts 
and P/F grades on others, the 
Student with P/F grades, not 
CMU, will be questioned. In fact, 
the committee sees the free 
market mechanism of job 
searching itself as a powerful in
centive to work hard during the 
first year....
This sounds as if CMU is plac
ing blame on the student. This is 
not a topic on which to be passing 
the buck. Students want some 
net to catch them in case they
T.S. Blass
should happen to falter in their 
first year of college.
As a counter-proposal, I recom
mend that the option to show first 
year letter grades be eliminated. 
The stress and strain of freshman 
year can be a trying and difficult 
time. The reason the current 
proposal was made was to allevi
ate some of the burden of adjusting 
to college life.
Those who achieve good grades 
are given the luxury of reporting 
their letter grades while the stu
dent who finds college a challenge 
his initial year is penalized by 
deciding to show P/F grades. Even 
successful students who struggled
through the first year will be 
slighted if they have to make the 
decision to show P/F grades. By 
removing the option, the scarlet 
letter of P/Fs would no longer 
brand certain students in such a 
harmful way.
One point worth noting is that 
freshman courses are generally 
entrance-level courses. Employ
ers do not care whether you re
ceive an A in freshman physics, 
but they do care whether or not 
you can perform higher-level 
coursework. By not seeing fresh
man grades, a student would not 
be harmed by first-year difficul
ties and would not have to bear 
the heavy stress associated with 
doing poorly for the rest of his or 
her academic career.
An incentive to work hard still 
exists. Letter grades would be 
recorded in order to compute 
QPAs, which are an important
measure of academic success. The 
conscientious student will always 
strive to do his best in order to 
maintain a decent and respectable 
QPA.
With these modifications, a less 
discriminatory system can be de
vised. QPAs would keep students 
goal-oriented while the new sys
tem would relieve the stresses of 
doing poorly in the first year. The 
student can have more time to 
evaluate his or her abilities and 
see if they match the expectations 
that CMU demands of its stu
dents. After the freshman year, 
the student would be able to de
termine if Carnegie Mellon meets 
his or her expectations without 
having a nasty scar permanently 
etched on his or her academic 
record.
T.S. Blass is a sophomore IM 
major.grade he or she received tor a net to catch them m case they successrui students who struggled QrAs, which are an important major.Students ask for support and understanding while in college
Oi
bCCbN Ca 
C.b ,umCaN
Editor:
This is in response to 
Barbara A. Newburys 
letter regarding my column / on Carnegie 
Mellon freshmen and 
their study habits:
It is nice to see that the parents of 
Carnegie Mellon freshmen take interest 
in the adjustment process that their chil
dren and their childrens peers undergo 
as they leave high school and enter col
lege. As can be expected, this process can 
be a difficult one, especially for some 
people, and freshmen may need support 
to make it through and become function
ing members of the University commu
nity. Some freshmen may not need this
period of adjustment. I applaud them. On 
the other hand, many do. Those that I 
mentioned in my column are among this 
vast majority. While it seems that you feel 
that your daughter, Jennifer, a feshman 
physics major, does not need this period of 
adjustment, I feel that many of my peers 
and I do. Perhaps this offends you. Per
haps it is just that you cannot allow your
self to let go of your daughters life and let 
her live it as an adult on her own in 
college, free to make mistakes and be 
afraid for her future. Am I afraid? YES I 
AM! And I should be.
Why am I afraid? Because I am facing 
challenges greater than any I have faced 
before. I may have coasted through high 
school on pure natural ability as I said
in my column, but I am not scared by my 
current inability to coast, as you asserted. 
Rather, I am scared that there are too 
many people like you who will not be 
providing me and my peers with the sup
port and understanding that we need 
during this adjustment period.
You take issue with my use of the word 
lucky when I refer to my neighbor. You 
assert that I admire him and his ability to 
do well without attending class. Well, I 
disagree. With the word lucky, I was 
stressing the fact that he had to get his act 
together and start taking school seriously. 
Fortunately, he has.
You put forth your most heinous misin
terpretation of my column when you as
sert that I am planning to make grades
that are only respectable enough to allow me 
to transfer to a less demanding environment 
than the one here at CMU. While I may be 
planning to transfer (and if I am, I dont feel 
that it is your affair to begin with), it would 
only be to find a smaller school, one with an 
equally (if not more) challenging curricu
lum.
While it seems from your attitude that you 
expect all Carnegie Mellon freshmen to au
tomatically deal and cope with the wildly 
different environments between high school 
and college, I do hope you understand what 
we are experiencing at this point in our 
lives.
Brendan P. McFeely 
Freshman, H&SS
How
strongly do 
you
believe?
onEditor:
Hey Bill 
K i s n e r4 smmDDb bCCbN Ca 
Cl.bbhigmu C.b ,umCaN
mate truth in front of the 
Clock, 10/22]! If Jesus told 
you to jump off the Empire 
State Building, would you do 
it?
Douglas Smith 
Sophomore, H&SS
Graffiti on windows 
needs a warning label
Editor;
I would like to 
comment on the 
messages dis
played on the 
window of the
on
bCCbN Ca 
C.b ,umCaN
Carnegie Mellon Womens Cen
ter.
Is the use of such profane lan
guage absolutely necessary to 
convey an idea? What must the 
thoughts of visiting parents and 
potential applicants upon view
ing this graffiti be? Carnegie 
Mellon allowsits students a great 
deal of independence in express
ing themselves. Students may 
choose to paint the fence or hang
posters on the many public bulle
tin boards around campus in or
der to communicate with each 
other.
Freedom of speech is a right 
granted to every American, and a 
college student should know 
where to draw the line before ex
ploiting that right. Even record 
albums are now stamped with 
labels warning buyers of offend
ing lyrics.
Does Carnegie Mellon wish to 
have such a label stamped upon 
itself?
Tony DeRoss 
Freshman, MCS
If what happened 
on your inside 
happened on your 
outside, would 
you still smoke?
NOVEMBER 15.
THE GREAT AMERICAN 
SMOKEOUT.
The worlds leading Aerospace, Power, Manufacturing Management, and 
Corporate Research Companies have two things in common.
They are all GE Companies and they will all be at Carnegie Mellon on November 15 and 16.
(Sign up for your interview at the Career Development & Placement Center, now.)
If you're preparing for your 
bachelor's or master's 
degree in one of these 
disciplines:
ENGINEERING
- Computer
- Electrical
- Industrial
- Manufacturing
- Mechanical
- Metallurgical
- Nuclear
- Systems
COMPUTER SCIENCE
MATH
PHYSICS
And interested in the 
following business areas:
AEROSPACE
- Huntsville, AL
- Daytona Beach, FL
- St. Petersburg, FL
- Burlington, MA 
r Pittsfield, MA
- Camden, NJ
- Moorestown, NJ
- Princeton, NJ
- Binghamton, NY POWER SYSTEMS
- Syracuse, NY
- Utica, NY
- Philadelphia, PA
- Valley Forge, PA
- Burlington, VT
- Washington, DC
- Colorado Springs, CO
- Windsor, CT
- Orlando, FL
- Fitchburg, MA
- Schenectady, NY
- Greenville, SC
CORPORATE R&D
- Schenectady, NY 
GE CORPORATE 
PROGRAMS
- Edison Engineering 
Program
- Manufacturing 
Management Program
Sign up for your interview 
now at the Career Placement 
Center
At GE, we know that a great tomorrow is built today. Our compensation and benefits programs are among 
the very finest. The opportunities for professional growth and development are limited only by your vision.
If this sounds like the kind of challenge you demand in your career, you could consider no company better 
than GE and no time better than now.
The mark of a leader
An equal opportunity employer
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief..........................Howdy Pierce
Managing Editor...............Michael T. Rose
Business Manager...................Frank DiVrto
News Editor..................Nicole Brockmann
Forum Editor.........................Susan Abrams
Sports Editor......................Katie Culbertson
Features Editor............Dexter T. Kobayashi
Diversions Editor................Stephen Gllcker
Calendar Editor.............Daniel de Grandpre
Magazine Editor................Jennifer Kersteln
Dossier Literary Editor.............Jack Silbert
Dossier Design Editor...........Chris Shields
Art Editor..........................William C. Sabram
Photo Editor.......................Tad Dockstader
Photo Staff Manager........Ignatius Sasmita
Darkroom Manager..........DA Henderson
Production Manager............Beth A. Moses
Copy Manager................................Alim Ray
Asst. Managing Editor ...Nathan Fullerton 
Asst. Business Mgr. . Michael J. Ewedosh 
Asst. News Editors ....Rhonda Struminger 
David B. Ladek 
Asst. Forum Ed. ...Samantha A. Kossman
Asst. Sports Editor'...........Jason McDonald
Asst. Features Editors............Trupti Patel
Allison Durazzi
Asst. Diversions Eds..........Dawn Brosonski
Terri Kasch
Asst. Magazine Editor.............Alison Green
Asst Art Editor.......................Kristina Bolnis
Contributing Editors 
Kevin Barney, Grant Carmichael, James B. 
Endres (Tokyo), Dustin Frazier, Farron W. 
Levy (London), Jonathan Levy, Eric 
McAnallen, Thomas Nichols, Natalie 
Peterson, Don Pickett
Senior Staff 
Staffwriters: Waseem Hussain, Javier GrilloMarxuach, Randy Udavcak. Darkroom: 
Jason Dlgman.
Staffwriters 
Laura Adams, Matt Adler, SuzanneBarttett, 
Russ Bedel, T.S. Blass, Mami Borek, Allan 
Bourdlus, Alison Carter, Caleb Cohen, 
Andrew Cosentino, Jill Denesvich, Megan 
Dietz, Dan Erhard, Dan Ferrell, Francis M. 
Goldsberry, Javier Grillo-Marxuach, Judy 
Grossman, Rachel Haas, Daniel Holland, 
Sarah Hamilton, Colleen Kane, Georgiha 
Koon, Richard Kwiatkowski, Dave Martin, 
Daniel Martinez, Brendan McFeely, Bidisha 
Mukherjee, Chin Oh, Rich Robinson, Mark 
Roces, Doug Scott, Mike Shapiro, David 
Schwartz, Lui Sieh, Alan Sloan, Jason Lee 
Smith, Kelly Sterling, Tina Urso, A. Franklin 
Wheeler, Laurie Wilkison, Christian Williams, 
Jeffrey Woodford, Robert Wyner
Art
Sunita Cherian, Brandon Chin, Eric Davis, 
Ken Flickstein, Damien Miller, Jen Nelson, 
Chin Oh, Jeff Oplinger, Dave Pagani, Paulette 
Pan, Naomi Pearson, Jason Peltz, Kate 
Rollenhagen, Cesar Sanchez
Comics
GregBaimal, And! Briggs, FlintCrumpacher, 
Eric Davis, Danny Fahs, Chris Fria, Dan 
Gallagher, Dave Kapla, Andre Khromov, 
Doug Lamperski, John Lin, Neil McCarfty, 
Craig Mrusek, Paul Reed, RJ. Runas, 
ChariesSabatos, Mike Shapiro, JackSilbert, 
Clifford Snider, Ray Strobel, K. Michael 
Thomas, Nick Wardigo
Photography/Darkroom 
Rick Antolic, David Docktor, Dan Frey, 
Vivek Gupta, Aslf Ikram, Jason Irwin, Hillary 
Kahn, Stephen Kang, Doug Luce, Sam 
Mastromatteo, Jessica Miller, Gliy 
Paquette, Pauletta Pan, Alex Patho Jr., 
Kishor Rao, Stanley Wong, Buddy Wells, 
Brian Woods, Gwokang Yang
Production/Layout 
Ann Campbell, Jennifer Forbes, Samantha 
A. Kossman, Manish Modh, PankaJS. Mody, 
Kishor K. Rao, Derek Rubinoff, Jen Sherer, 
Jim Zelenka
Copy
Heather Broud, Marybeth A. Griffin, Heidi 
Hoover, Sean Kracklauer, Lenna Kydes, 
Daniel Martinez, Erika Olson, Christine 
Rahiml-Assa, Christian R. Williams
Business 
James Kim, Mary Kaye Rodgers
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to 
members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing;ihc. 
Subscriptions are available forthe semester 
or academic year. The Editorials appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section are 
the official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Columns are the opinions of indi
vidual authors. Letters to the Editor are 
opinions of authors who are usually, but riot 
necessarily members of the University com
munity. A letter intended for publication rqgst 
be signed and include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names 
will be withheld upon request The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject ny 
letter or column. Copyright  1990 by The 
Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves 
the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111Mailing address: Hie Tartan/Box 17/Camegie MdllonUniversity/Pittsburgh. PA 15213-3890Funded in part by the Activities Fee.All rights reserved.Library of Congress ISSN tt: 0890-3107.______

---------------------------------------------------

Unibed way
Darrell
Kleppemomics
Voting is conducted in front of 
Doherty Hall (inside, if rain). Votes 
are cast by placing donations in the 
canister corresponding to the 
candidate of the voters choice. 
Ballot stuffing is highly encouraged.
Jason 
Alpha Epsilon Pi
Vote October 29
Conrad 
A Phi O President
Ollie
Escort
Chris 
Delta Tau Delta
Lurch 
Phi Kappa Theta
Christian 
A Phi O Pledge President
Amit 
Kappa Sigma
Hudson 
Pi Kappa Alpha

---------------------------------------------------

Unibed way
Gary 
Cross Counby
Phil
[ntro to Computing
Melissa 
Kiltie Band
Adam 
The Thistle Yearbook
Bill
The Backstabber
Mario 
Prism House
Proceeds benefit the United Way. 
Sponsored by:
\I.O/LIGHT
Darren Press 
Delta UpsilonSpecial Thanks to The Tartan and The Thistle
November 2

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 1990
US PS delivers fun 
and love from home
Susan Abrams
I cant believe it.
My parents have threatened 
to stop sending me mail unless 
I contact them via the Postal 
Service (those sneaky people 
who I am sure have confiscated 
every little postcard I have tried 
to send to friends and family in 
past years to no avail).
So, in an attempt to avoid 
being greeted by an empty 
mailbox at least once a week, I 
finally sat down and wrote them 
a few letters.
I sent them my old paycheck 
stubs, and in return received 
my Visa bill.
I sent them a few comics I 
found hilarious and thought 
they would enjoy as well, and 
got back newspaper clippings 
about the destruction of one of 
the bridges back home.
I write to them and ask them 
to send me some chocolate chip 
cookies. I receive chocolate chips 
cookies, all right. With walnuts. 
I dislike walnuts with an ex
treme passion.
But thats all from my mom. 
When I get packages and other 
good things from my dad, that 
is what I call fun.
You see, hes one of those 
practical jokers who cant resist 
making people laugh.
I once received a rather large 
box from him, via UPS, filled 
with bags and bags and more
bags. Oh yeah, he also put this 
little note in it: Write to me or 
these bags will hold various 
parts of your body when I come 
to kill you!
He once sent me a mens 
clothing advertisement from a 
magazine and told me to have 
my friends pick out which man 
he was. I had trouble with that 
one myself. In the first place, I 
didn't know which side of the 
page he had in mind. On one 
side, two men dressed were all 
dressed up in their Sunday best. 
On the other side, a bunch of 
soccer players were shouting 
and holding their frontal ap
pendages. All the men in both 
ads were young and handsome 
 my dad is getting old and 
gray.
One of my sisters sent me a 
bunch of money-saving coupons 
that expire by the end of the 
month. Another sister sent me 
a dress for my cousins wedding 
just in time. I was afraid Id 
have to go in the only dress I 
have here, and it is black.
Occasionally, I receive a let
ter or two from some of my 
friends. Despite all th good 
times I had with them in high 
school, we are all simply grow
ing apart from each other now.
Fortunately, though, my 
family and I seem to be growing 
closer together. We may not 
reach out to each other on the 
phone, but we do reach out 
however we can.
I can hardly wait for my next 
letter.
SusanAbrams is a sophomore 
professional writing major.
Baggers receive extra money for meals
Jonathan Levy
It was lunchtime last Monday 
and I was paying for my food at 
the Morewood Cafeteria. While I 
was reaching into my wallet to 
pay the amount by which I had 
exceeded my $3.95 meal allow
ance, I noticed one of the sleeping 
bagger lunch coupons with a value 
of $4.65 printed on it.
My first cynical thought was 
that the Admissions Office was 
hiding the fact that the contract 
meal allowances are insufficient 
to pay for a reasonable meal. As I 
turned more charitable, I decided 
that maybe they werent trying to 
hide anything but just didnt want 
sleeping baggers to go hungry if 
they had not brought enough cash 
with them.
It turns out that both guesses 
were wrong. According to Ad
missions Counselor Tim Diehl, 
when he was planning the sleep
ing bagger weekend, he called 
Carnegie Mellon Dining Services
and asked what the meal allow
ances should be. A woman whose 
name he does not know told him 
that he should provide $3.30 for 
breakfast, $4.65 for lunch, and 
$5.45 for dinner. We did not in
tentionally raise [the meal allow
ance], Diehl said.
I am willing to believe that ex
planation since there is no reason 
why an admissions office em
ployee should be expected to know 
that while the contract breakfast 
allowance is also $3.30, the lunch 
and dinner allowances are $3.95 
and $4.80 respectively. There is 
also no reason to expect him to 
know that the contract lunch and 
dinner allowances are unchanged 
since the sleeping bagger week
ends last year even though the a 
la carte prices for food have in
creased.
When I asked CMDS Director 
James Gurley about the differ
ences between the bagger and 
student meal allowances, he said 
Its nothing more than a number 
that the admissions office felt they 
were willing to underwrite.
I am not going to accuse Gurley 
of lying because my guess is that 
he was not. It is more likely that
Hate Mail.
v
Public officials in more than 120 countries hate to get 
mail about human rights abuse. It causes trouble. It causes 
publicity. And it causes freedom.
Write today. Your letter can make a difference, too. 
Write a letter, save a life. V
Amnesty International
"... the baggers went home unaware 
that they had eaten better than they 
ever will as CMU students if they 
come here. 
someone else in the CMDS office 
came up with the suggested bag
ger meal allowances and gave 
them to Diehl without Gurley ever 
knowing.
That person may have done a 
favor for the Admissions Office. 
For what must have been a 
minimal amount of extra Ad
missions Office money, the bag
gers went home unaware that 
they had eaten better than they 
ever will as CMU students if they 
come here.
But that still does not explain 
why somebody at CMDS gave 
Diehl such high figures. Did she 
think that CMDS also had an 
interest in misleading baggers? 
Was she trying to squeeze more 
money out of the Admissions Of
fice? Did she disagree with Gurley, 
who has said that he believes the
meal allowances are sufficient w 
buy reasonable meals, and tty 
give the baggers a break? Ori 
she just use the Highlander ca 
prices for some reason?
I dont know the answers 
these questions. In my journalist cc 
mind, I am hoping that I ha-, fci 
stumbled across the leak thatj 
show that CMDS never really 
lieved the meal allowances 
sufficient. That would give me 
great story and might lead 
changes. However, that drei 
aside, I would still like to kn0 
what happened; whether it shoi 
have happened; and, if not, ho% 
can be kept from happening agai
Jonathan Levy is a second-yea ii 
master's student in SUPA and 
1990 biology department alun h
arking  University Center  Greeks  Student Involvment  Student Senati 
Athletic Facilities  Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student Health  Bankinj 
Politics  Funding  Football Field  Student Affairs * Constitution  Constructic 
Overcrowding  Contras  Housing  Sororities  Charities  Gymnasium  Dmh 
Service  Environment  Recycling  Exercise  Congress  Middle East  Weathi 
Ad^BHH gex o Geeks  Alcohol 0 Drugs  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy 
The Muppets  Mail  Manure  Advertising  Disco  Crime
jfons  SEI 
's  Howd; 
crowding 
|H^g
ay Rights 0 Drugs  Budget  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy * The Flag  Woo 
Allen # Funding 0 Student Affairs  Mayor  Construction  Track Field  Overcrop 
ing 0 Constitution  Activities Board  Gymnasium  Housing  Sororities  Chant: 
8 Dining Service  Environment  Recycling  Congress  Club Sports  MiddleE;
 Weather  Advising  Crime  Sex  Geeks  Corruption 0 Violence  Alcohol  Drc
 Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Woody Allen  Funding  Student Affair;
Letters to the Editor  Deadline Friday 5 pm 
Skibo 50
n
Three new ways to survive college.
The Macinlosl} Classic
With Apples introduction of three new 
Macintosh computers, meeting the challenges of college 
life just got a whole lot easier. Because now; everybody 
can afford a Macintosh.
The IlffllllMHilllBIIM is our most 
affordable model, yet it comes with everything you needincluding a hard disk drive.The MRBIiHKIBfil 
combines color capabilities with affordability. And the 
MBMIWHMilflfli is perfect for students who need a 
computer with extra power and expandability.
No matter which Macintosh you choose, youll 
have a computer that lightens your work load without
i l___________________
The Macintosh lisi
giving you another tough subject to learn. Every Macintosh 
computer is easy to set up and even easier to master. And 
when youve learned one program, youre well on your 
way to learning them all.Thats because thousands of avail
able programs all work in the same, consistent manner. 
You can even share information with someone who uses a 
different type of computer-thanks to Apples versatile 
SuperDrive which reads from and writes to Macintosh, 
MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple 11 floppy disks.
See the new Macintosh computers for yourself, 
and find out how surviving college just got a whole lot 
easier.
For more information visit the Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
V, The power to be your best
01990 Apple Computer. Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks ol Apple Computer. Inc. SuperDrive and "The power to be your best" are trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. Claisic isa registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer. Inc.MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. OS/2 is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 199013
Alternative energy sources save fossil fuels
I have been taking special 
courses in legalese to try to read 
that Pennsylvania Recycling Law, 
hUt I am now taking a break to 
discuss alternative energy 
sources.
Wind power. Wind is actually 
solar power that has already been 
converted to mechanical power, 
fhe wind spins the blades of 
windmills, which in turn gener
ate electricity. The power generted by windmills doesn't create 
ony pollution. The cost of windgenerated electricity is less than 
seven cents per kilowatt-hour, 
compared with five cents for elec
tricity generated by a coal-fired 
plant.
. Large windmill farms also in
crease the value of the land: an 
Mperiment in northern Califor
nia in the 1980s, in which favorJjle tax policies and .high prices 
paid by the local utility for windgenerated electricity caused the 
construction of many wind farms, 
saw land prices increase from 
$400 per acre to over $2,000. This 
increase in price reflects royalties 
,paid to lando.wners for use of the 
land. In fact, even after the wind 
farms were set up, cattle were 
still able to graze on the land ... 
around the windmills!
However, wind power is not to
tally without its side effects. Noise 
was a concern, along with steel 
Slades interrupting television 
signals, but with modern technol
ogy, new windmills have 
lighweight blades made mostly of 
fiberglass or wood and epoxy 
which almost totally eliminate 
these problems.
r,0ne major problem, however, 
iSthat of bird deaths. Large wind 
farms have thousands of wind
mills; a stray bird flying in there 
is almost sure to be shredded to 
pieces. Also, wind is not evenly 
spaced out around the country;
Jeffrey Woodford
the Plains States have the high
est wind potential, while states in 
the deep south and eastern sea
board have much lower wind po
tentials. A transportation system 
which would be able to carry wind
generated power over long dis
tances would be needed, as well 
as a storage system for the power 
when the air is calm. Therefore, 
total reliance on wind power for 
our energy needs may be an un
desirable alternative; nobody 
wants to see massive wind farms 
covering our wheat fields with 
power cables extending from 
Kansas to New York transmit
ting the power. It just wouldnt be 
feasible.
Solar power. Power gener
ated from sunlight can come about 
in one of two ways: indirectly, as 
in sunlight heating some fluid to 
create steam that drives a tur
bine, or directly, as in the direct 
conversion of photons of light into 
an electric current.
The first method is being prac
tically demonstrated today on a 
large scale: in the Mojave Desert 
in Southern California, the LUZ 
Corporation has installed solarthermal electric plants totaling 
275 megawatts of total generating 
capacity. The,LUZ design is to set 
up large parabolic troughs of 
mirrors with a pipeline running 
down the focal point of the pa
rabolas. Inside the pipeline is oil 
that is heated by the reflected 
sunlight; the oil changes into 
steam, which drives a turbine 
generator.
The cost of this electricity has
dropped from 23 cents with the 
first LUZ plant to 10 cents per 
kilowatt-hour with plants being 
built today, clearly competitive 
with coal-based power. The plants 
only take nine to twelve months 
to build, much faster than the six 
to twelve years required for a coalfired plant.
An alternative approach is to 
use large sun-tracking mirrors 
that focus sunlight onto a central 
receiver. The fluid circulating in 
the central receiver can reach 
much higher temperatures than 
with the parabolic-trough method. 
This method has been demon
strated. in the ten megawatt Solar 
One plant in Dagett, California 
and the five megawatt plant in 
Almeira, Spain.
The second type of solar power, 
the creation of an electric current 
by the actual photons of light, is 
known as photovoltaic (PV) elec
tricity. PV systems need minimal 
maintenance and often have no 
moving parts; they create elec
tricity with no pollution and no 
noise.
The size of PV systems is flex
ible; one can be installed on the 
rooftop of a home. In fact, a 12 
percent efficient PV system cov
ering 40 square meters on the 
south-facing rooftop of an average 
American home receiving aver
age solar radiation can meet the 
energy demands of that family. 
And the efficiency from PV sys
tems has increased considerably: 
from 17 percent in the mid-1970s 
to 35 percent for the latest stateof-the-art solar cell technology 
(and around 28 percent for the 
?more modest incomes). Inherent 
to this tremendous increase in 
efficiency is a decrease in cost, 
from $60 per kilowatt-hour in 
1970 to somewhere around 25 
cents today.
The main drawbacks to solar
Graduate Student Organization
~ GSO announces the formation if an action committee to
- address concerns of graduate students.
= If you have issues of importance for graduate students 
E university wide, send a letter or note to:
Graduate Student Organization 
Baker Hall, Box 35
by Nomember 9th.
If you want to be on this committee, let us know or tell 
your GSO representative
Dr. Nuha Abudabbeh 
Founder, Naim Foundation
on
The Psychological Effects of 
War and Trauma
Wherrett Room 
7:30 pm October 25, 1990
Political Speakers Forum Board 
Event
Funded by Activities Fee
energy are its cost and its sensi
tivity to the amount of sunshine. 
While PV cells are cost-effective 
over the long run, the initial costs 
for a family can be enormous; 
many families simply cannot af
ford solar cells.
In addition, an alternative en
ergy source is needed for night
time and cloudy days. In the LUZ 
solar-thermal plant in the Mojave 
Desert, they use a small natural 
gas burner to try to solve this very 
problem. But natural gas supplies 
are running low.
Biomass power. Gasifying 
wood and other plant matter could 
provide still another alternative 
source of electricity. To gasify a 
piece of wood would entail heat
ing it with air and steam under 
high pressures and then cleaning 
the gas; this gasified wood chip 
would then be burned in a gas 
turbine system. However, the 
burning creates carbon dioxide, 
the dreaded greenhouse gas. Also, 
transportation costs of the bio
mass would become prohibitive 
after a point.
These tjiree areas of alterna
tive energy sources, wind, solar, 
and biomass power, constitute the 
main hopes of the future, to wean 
our culture off of fossil fules and 
onto renewable energy sources. 
Except for one, that is  nuclear 
power.
Nuclear fusion, the process of 
fusing two hydrogen nuclei into a 
helium atom, is a promising 
source of energy; however, the 
technology is at least a decade 
away from us. While nuclear fis
sion power plants are incorrectly 
structured at the present time, 
they can eventually be changed 
into a safer and more efficient 
design.
Jeffrey Woodford is a freshman 
chemistry major.
ROTC should redefine 
its admission policies
ROTC, from page 8
themselves in the closet for the 
next eight years. It is not at all 
obvious how the repression of 
sexual identity can be healthy for 
the full psychological develop
ment of individuals. Nor is it obvi
ous that persons may be able to 
develop to their fullest potential 
by denying a fundamental aspect 
of what makes them who they 
are. An environment of fear and
intimidation over such persona, 
matters is not going to make bet 
ter officers.
Maybe ROTC should take ahin ; 
from its own advertisements. It i:; 
time for ROTC to be all [it] cai 
be by confronting and ending it; 
homophobic policies.
Matt Hawkins
Graduate Student, Applies 
History
ETHICAL ISSUES IN BUSINESS
80 - 245 6 unit mini-course [first half semester]
M 2:00 - 4:30 pm Peter Madsen
No prerequisites.Enrollment: open.
Many believe that ethics and business, like oil and water, don't mix. What are 
business ethics? Many say the phrase is a contradiction in terms. Is this 
cynicism justified? Business affects everyone, for better or worse. So many insist 
that we all must be concerned with the ways, beneficial and harmful, that 
business affects our lives and how business is conducted. What ethical issues 
in fact arise in business? Is it in the interests of business to address these issues? 
Can organizations be held to ethical standards in the same way as individuals? 
What obligations does business have to its employees, to the environment, to 
society and to the world at large? Do these ethical obligations go beyond what 
the law demands or prohibits? And, if business organizations have obligations 
beyond their own bottom lines or beyond the requirements of law, what rights 
do they have? Who decides? On what basis? And who enforces ethical 
standards for business? How? These questions about business ethics are not 
just theoretical, they are hard practical questions. How do we answer them? 
This course seeks practical as well as principled ways to address these questions.
This course is an introduction to ethical issues that confront employees and 
employers in the modern business workplace and ethical issues that confront 
business organizations in the larger contexts of the marketplace, the 
environment, our own society, and international relations. The course 
emphasizes practical reasoning skills and approaches to the dilemmas and 
moral mazes confronting employees, managers, and corporations.
The course will cover topics such as privacy in the workplace, drug testing, 
employee rights, employer rights, whistleblowing, the rights and obligations 
of whistleblowers (Does one have a duty to sacrifice success or career for the 
publicgood?); sexual harrassment in the workplace; insider trading; advertising 
ethics; corporate codes of ethics (What should they be? Who makes them? 
Who makes them work? What good are they?); corporate responsibility (versus 
individual responsibility), to society, to the environment; ethics and selfinterest (Is it in the interests of business to be ethical?); multinational ethics, 
ethical relativism, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (When is a bribe not 
a bribe?).
Dr. Peter Madsen is Executive Director of Carnegie Mellon's Center for the 
Advancement of Applied Ethics. For many years he has taught seminars on 
business, management, and professional ethics for executives, managers, 
employees and service professionals in corporations, non-profit organizations, 
government agencies, and academic institutions. He brings to this course long 
and successful experience in dealing with professionals in the 'real world' of 
business and public affairs.
The course makes extensive use of case studies and materials gathered from 
these practical settings. It will also make use of video case studies and 
interactive discussion to present realistic scenarios and engage the class in 
practical, collaborative problem solving.
The course is open to all students, who are or will be affected by the ethical issues 
confronting business in contemporary society, but is especially relevant to 
Industrial Management and other students vyho will enter the complex world 
of business as managers and future leaders.

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 1990
Innovators that they are, 
Carnegie Mellon administrators 
seem to have discovered a new 
and ultra-effective way of com
municating important informa
tion to the campus community.
Responding to the theft of ID 
card equipment last week, the 
University tightened identifica
tion policies across campus. Her
alds of this change could be found 
all over campus, in the form of a 
memo mass-produced and tacked 
to bulletin boards everywhere. 
Certainly, the potency of this dy
namic new PR tool will have ev
eryone else who struggles to 
publicize events on campusAB, 
the Greeks, SDC, Housing, and 
Student Affairs  racing to beat 
down the door to Keatings office 
to see just how he did it.
Cant you just imagine walking 
through Baker Hall, talking a 
couple of friends, when a memo 
tacked to a bulletin board steals 
your attention. Your sentence 
stops midstream and you rush 
Dver to read the memo:
TO: The Campus Community 
FROM: Chris Smith, AB Chair 
DATE: October 29,1990 
RE: This Friday in DH 2210 
Not to be outdone, all of the 
other organizations that have 
struggled with creative and inno
vative poster designs to advertise 
their events and communicate
Michael J. Ewedosh
information will join the rush, 
too. Soon, each and every bulletin 
board on campus will be covered 
with white paper and 10 point 
type.
The memo seems to be a winwin proposal for the groups; not 
only will they benefit from the 
increased attention that this 
memoradnum extravaganza will 
give them, theyll also save time, 
money and creative effort on the 
difficult and tedious process of 
poster design.
Take a reality break before you 
go out and tell your artists and 
designers to hit the road. I dont 
think that Keatings memo is the 
success it seemed to be at first.
Im not criticizing him  lots of 
folks will tell you that I am one of 
the biggest users (and abusers) of 
the memo. He tried communicat
ing to people all over campus the 
way he would to people in Warner 
Hall.
It didnt work.
The fact is that a lot of people on 
campus found out about the the 
tightening of the ID policy only 
because there were changes made
at residence hall service desks 
and at campus stores. Finding 
out about a change in the rules 
only as it affects you isnt accept
able at a university that champi
ons itself as one of the leaders in 
the information age and that is 
noted for having one of the better 
PR departments in the country.
At a seminar on campus pro
gramming hosted by Student 
Activities last week, a represen
tative from University Publica
tions told people that one way of 
communicating events by a single 
group is to develop a poster 
template with a graphic or logo 
that is easily recognizable.
That trick doesnt appear to be 
a secret in the PR world  Ive 
seen it used everywhere from 
posters for the Presidents Dis
tinguished Lecture Series to the 
attendtion signal used by the 
United States Governments 
Emergency Broadcast System. 
Regardless of the media, the result 
is the same: people see or hear 
something they can identify with,1 
it gets their attention, and they 
get the message.
These things work; University 
Memorandum doesnt cut it, 
though.
Getting information from people 
who have it to those on campus 
who need it has been a failing of 
the University for quite some
THE MELLON COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
REQUESTS PROPOSALS FOR 
NOMINATION FOR
THE JULIUS ASHKIN TEACHING AWARD
This award is inteded to encourage and 
recognize unusual devotion and effectiveness 
in teaching undergraduate students in the 
Mellon College of Science.
A full description of the Julius Ashkin Teaching 
Award, including eligibility criteria and 
nomination procedure, is available in Scaife 
Hall 110.
Proposals for Nomination (by letter of two pages at most) may be made 
by any group of at least five persons, each of whom is either a current or 
retired regular or special faculty member or a current or former 
full-time undergraduate or graduate student in Carnegie Mellon, and are 
due in Scaife Hall 110 by November 15, 1990.
time. Important information 
warrants more than just hit-ormiss distribution. An initiative 
by University Relations to find a 
better way to get out the word 
would help begin to solve com
munication problems on campus.
Seriously, it wouldnt even be 
that difficult: Print a thousand 
11 by 17 posters that are blank 
except for the word ATTEN
TION printed at the top in large, 
red letters. Put the CMU logo at 
the bottom and copyright the 
whole thing so that enterprising 
groups dont copy the design and 
use it to advertise events. Famil
iarize the campus with it so that 
people know to look for the post
ers for official information.
When there is a need to quickly 
spread information through all or 
part of the campus community, 
the blank poster templates could 
be quickly printed by hand or by a 
laser printer or copier, and placed 
in the residence halls and aca
demic buildings.
The University has been effec
tive in responding quickly to 
situations requiring immediate 
action. The effectiveness of such a 
response is severly hindered, 
though, if the people it affects 
dont know about it.
Michael J. Ewedosh is a junior 
IM / P&M major.
Walk - lit
Sunday through Thursday 8 - 11p.m.
Calculus WeH 5403
Physics WeH 54-27
Chemistry WeH 5205
Academic Writing WeH 5205
Intro to Computing WeH 5409
The Right Place To Hum
U.S. shows complacency in education
Of the present issues facing 
America today, the concern over 
how America maintains its status 
as a leading economic and politi
cal power is a very important one. 
An integral part of this issue is 
the success or failure of the 
American educational system. 
Last week, I ranted and raved 
about the plight of American so
cial, political, and economic woes 
and attributed it to the inability 
of the educational system to 
graduate responsible and able 
citizens.
Why has the system whose 
strength lies in its universality 
failed? What can be done to re
verse the trends in mediocrity? 
The answers are complex. For 
some advocates of educational 
reform, such as Michael Barrett 
in the Atlantic Monthly (Novem
ber 1990), the first step is to in
crease the number of school days 
from 180 days (some states only 
have 175 days) to somewhere be
tween 220 and 240 days like some 
of Americas economic rivals: Ja
pan (243 days), formerly West 
Germany (226-240 days), and 
South Korea (220 days). This may 
work, but because the problem is 
too complex, any institutional
The Alternative S)
Lui Sieh
change will likely fall short of 
improving the quality of educa
tion.
One of the biggest obstacles to 
educational reform is American 
cultural attitudes toward educa
tion. Richard Hofstadter in his 
book Anti-intellectualism in 
American Life writes that the 
purpose of American public 
schools was basically to educate 
the average citizen so that he or 
she is able to read and write well 
enough to be self-sufficient, not to 
turn out as a brilliant student. It 
is ironic too that Hofstadter at
tributes this to American demo
cratic and egalitarian traditions, 
because democracy can only be 
sustained by citizenry that is 
highly educated.
In present day America, it seems 
that the emphasis of academic 
achievement is on the innate 
ability of the student rather than 
the effort he or she puts forth to
succeed.
The tracking system of Ameri
can high schools is one such in
fluence of this philosophy. This 
tracking system also tends to 
minimize the importance of work 
and effort in learning and believ
ing that achievement will come 
naturally to those with talent. 
Hence, the disparity of education 
levels, achievement, and unequal 
distribution of educational fund
ing: Why spend money on those 
who arent intelligent?
This idea leads to a form of 
complacency towards education. 
If you compare American atti
tudes about education to that of 
Asians (traditionally the high 
achievers in education), the result 
would be that American parents 
are more likely to be satisfied 
with their childs education and 
achievement than an Asian par
ent.
With American cultural atti
tudes so firmly anti-education, a 
simple measure such as increas
ing the number of schools days in 
a year is hardly a solution. While 
it may help, more school days in a 
year is not going to turn out 
smarter students. Success in 
education begins by believingthat
education is a serious effort which' 
requires dedication by both par. 
ents and children. This attitude 
would help the educators do their 
jobs better. School is a place to 
educate and not to babysit, as itis 
doing now.
Education is a constant process 
that begins at home and is contin; 
ued at school. Both are needed if 
the educational quality of America 
is to improve. However, with so 
many families having both par
ents in the workforce, the atten
tion paid to education is negli. 
gible and makes it much harder 
to improve. It is not, however 
impossible.
While it appears that American 
cultural values have been nega. 
tive factors, there is another for< 
gotten value that would be a posi
tive one: rugged individualism, 
the belief that success in life comes 
through hard work and discipline! 
It is obvious that the last decade 
was characterized by overall 
complacency and the results have 
not been good.
Its time for Americans to grow 
up and be responsible.
Lui Sieh is a senior applied his
tory major.
Memorandums arent good enough for CMUWHEN COMES THE EVOLUTM?

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
piace ti 
nations
Brefront,
Snyder throws for record
Sports Illustrated takes note of QBs feat
PRESS PASS
by Katie Culbertson
0 were not 
< ie Big Ten
jecond semester of my senior 
or of high school was nerveacking. Sitting in class with a 
oup of friends or acquaintan
ce subject I feared most 
>uld always come up, one way 
.the other.
Inevitably, people would ask me 
iere I was going to college. 
Roughing simultaneously, I 
jpjd say Carnegie Mellon. 
Mass confusion would grip the 
oup that was typically composed 
Indiana University, Purdue, or 
otre Dame bound-students. 
irnegie Mellon? Are they in the 
Ten? Did we play them last 
jisonY Do they have a football 
)yN I WOuld crouch in my chair 
, my friends speculated on this 
school, which was obvino athletic giant.
graduated from a high 
that excelled in athletics 
having grown up in a state 
by a Big Ten, basketball, 
Bobby Knight obsession, I 
accustomed to sports that 
achieved the spotlight, 
an institution that defishies away from the athspotlight, represented a 
change, 
ow settled into my sophomore 
at CMU, I am no longer 
of my schools status in 
world of collegiate athletics.
I am actually not embarto reveal that the school 
are plaid. 
lOkay, so Tartan sports dont 
the front pages of the 
newspapers everyday, 
likely Carnegie Mellon 
offer a Heisman Trophy 
in the near future. But 
that this is the same 
that played its home footgames. twenty minutes away 
campus at a high school 
stadium just a year ago, 
athletics have made some 
strides already this
er the mens cross counwhich claims more than 
victories in dual 
Or the football team, which 
this season and on the 
of a playoff berth, 
consider quarterback Billy 
the newest entry in the 
Division III record books, 
he completed 17 of 17 passes 
week against the College of 
. Sports Illustrated took 
of Snyders accomplishment, 
named him the magazines 
College Player of the week, 
obviously has not 
catapulted 
Mellon into the national 
but the more teams and 
push themselves, then 
more CMU will receive the 
it deserves, little by
like Snyder make it difto belittle CMU sports 
and I refuse to underwhat some of these athletes
accomplish.
Mellon will probably 
have to ask Pitt for parking 
for football games (Pitt used 
Morewood parking lot Saturnight for the Dame game), 
the University has yet to 
its own parking lots at home 
It would be nice to see the 
fill at a home football game,
1 it would be nice to see the 
1PUS excited about sports, 
roing home for vacations, I
loud and clear that I go to 
Im just worried about what 
will think when I tell them 
to go to (cough) Columbia 
rad school.
Sports Editor Katie 
------is a sophomore pro
visional writing major.
By KATIE CULBERTSON
Tartan Sports Editor
When CMU senior quarterback 
Bill Snyder completed 17 con
secutive passes in last weeks 
game against the College of 
Wooster, not only did he enter his 
name in the NCAA Division III 
record books, he also made his 
way into Sports Illustrated as the 
magazines Small Schools Player 
of the Week.
Senior quarterback William 
Snyder of Carnegie Mellon set a 
Division III record for consecu
tive completions in a game by 
connectiong on 17 of 17 passes for 
211 yards in a 47-22 victory over 
Wooster, read the write-up in 
the College Report of the October 
29 issue of Sports Illustrated.
Senior quarterback Bill Snyder.
Snyder is pleased with the honor 
by the way it reflects on his indi
vidual career, as well as the boost 
it gives the entire team.
The way I feel about it, its a 
great honor, he said. And it also 
gives us a chance for some na
tional recognition.
Snyder admits the whole thing 
is a surprise. Ive always had 
confidence in my arm, but I never 
expected this, he said.
According to Head Coach Rich 
Lackner, almost more impressive 
than Snyders actual achievement 
and his subsequent recognition is 
the attitude Snyder has main
tained surrounding his success.
Billy is a class act, said 
Lackner. If you noticed all of his 
quotes [regarding his achieve
ment], he mentioned he was 
happy we had won the game. 
Lackner pointed out that 
records like this are not easily 
achieved without the help of great 
protection and receivers. Snyder 
agrees. You have to admire that 
in a young man, said Lackner. 
Billy shows a lot of class.
Tartan File Photo
Last week against the College of Wooster, senior quarterback Bill 
Snyder set a Division III record for consecutive completions in one 
game.
Football extends winning streak
-Mhi
nmm.
Junior Drew Pizzurro lunges forward for a few extra feet as a Geneva defender trips him from underneath. The Tartans won 17-14.
Tartans go 8-0 with crucial win over Geneva
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan football team kept 
its playoff hopes alive Saturday 
with a crucial 17-14 win over the 
Geneva College Golden Tornadoes 
in the final home game of the 
season.
The Tartans entered the game 
with a 7-0 record, ranked fifth in 
the NCAA Division III polls be
hind Ferrum, Washington and 
Jefferson, Frostburg St., and 
Lycoming. The top four teams at 
the end of regular-season play 
advance to the NCAA Division III 
playoffs.
Normally, a team with one loss 
could still have a chance to make 
the playoffs. But with all of the 
top five teams undefeated, a loss 
would more or less ruin any hopes 
of earning post-season honors. 
The Tartans knew coming in that 
they had to beat Geneva, and that 
this was one of the biggest games 
of the season.
It was either do-or-die today, 
said senior nose tackle Marvin 
Germany. We knew we were go
ing to be in for a fight.
Theyve [Geneva] been talking 
about this game even before the 
season started and how they were 
going to whip us, said senior 
quarterback Billy Snyder. We 
just saved our energy and came 
out here and did it up play after 
play.
It was a hard-fought game  a 
game of big plays. The Tartan 
offense racked up 367 total yards, 
including 258 yards rushing. The 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 17
Rugby disappointed at Wheeling, 13-9
ByTOMANFUSO
Special to The Tartan
CMU rugby failed in a lastditch scoring drive last Satur
day at Wheeling College, los
ing 13-9.
The absence of talented 
scrummy Jim Burks and back 
Neil Talsania was notable, with 
both players out for the re
mainder of the season after 
breaking bones in last weeks 
Clearfield game.
Defensive play prevailed at 
Wheeling, with both teams 
scrummies slugging it out for 
ball possession. Overall, 
Carnegie Mellons scrum com
pletely overpowered its 
Wheeling opponents. CMUs
scrummies consistently .drove 
Wheeling off the ball to win 
scrum-down's, and also won a 
majority of the line-outs.
Carnegie Mellon prop Ed 
Miller and veteran second-row 
Jacques Parker were dominant 
in the frequent ruck and maul 
battles for the ball. However, 
CMUs backfield was stifled by 
sloppy ball handling and 
Wheelings aggressive tacklers. 
As a result, Carnegie Mellon 
had difficulty in setting up 
plays to maintain any sort of 
offensive drive.
Wheeling scored early in the 
first half when one of their 
backs outran disorganized 
CMU defenders for a try. The 
Please see RUGBY, page 19
Volleyball places sixth at UAAs
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Copy Manager
The womens volleyball team 
was disappointed with its sixth 
place finish in the UAA Champi
onship this weekend at Emory 
University.
The Tartans lost their first two 
matches against NYU and 
Washington University, which 
put CMU out of the winners 
bracket for the championship. 
Carnegie Mellon then had to win 
both of its next two matches to 
finish fifth. CMU could only get 
one win against Emory and lost to 
Brandies University.
Carnegie Mellons first match, 
against NYU, was the most im
portant because the only other 
team in its pool was Washington 
University, heavily favored to win 
the Championship.
The Tartans played very
The Tartans lost their first two 
matches against NYU and Washing
ton University, which put CMU out of 
the winner's bracket....
smoothly and very strong in the 
first game, winning 157. CMU 
had a let down in the second game 
and lost 3-15 but was able to take 
control in the third game and won 
15-10. NYU took the last two gaes (15-12,15-10) thereby winning 
the match as the Tartans were 
not able to hold their momentum.
We knew that [a win against 
NYU] would be our only ticket 
into the winners bracket, com
mented Head Coach Charolette 
Fisher. A lot of the girls were 
visibly upset [after the game].
The next match, against Wash
ington University, was a mustwin in order for the Tartans to 
qualify for the winners bracket. 
CMU played Washington very 
strong despite its last defeat but 
lost in three straight games 8-15, 
4-15, 5-15.
Sophomore Elizabeth Rowlands 
did not play in the Washington 
match and played on and off 
throughout the rest of the cham
pionship because her ankle injury 
was bothering her. Freshman 
Wendy Wasko came off the bench 
and did well in contributingto the 
Please see VOLLEYBALL, page 19

---------------------------------------------------

16The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 1990
Lemieux targeted for January return to Penguins
This past week brought some 
potential good news for the 
Pittsburgh Penguins and their 
fans  superstar center Mario 
Lemieux could return to the ice as 
early as January.
Lemieux has been diagnosed 
with osteomyelitis  a degen
erative bone diseasein his lower 
back. Osteomyelitis is treatable 
with antibiotics; but recovery is 
not 100 percent certain. Lemieuxs 
bones could be damaged beyond 
repair or the disease could resist 
the treatment.
Even if the bone heals, some 
doctors doubt that his recovery 
will be total. One specialist in San 
Diego commented, Its hard to 
believe he can come back to his 
previous level. Maybe hell beat 
the odds.
There was also some promising
news for Detroit Red Wings fans. 
Right wing Bob Probert was to 
have been jailed by the Immigra
tion and Naturalization Service 
while it conducted deportation 
proceedings, but the imprison
ment was overturned by a federal 
judge as being unconstitutional.
Probert faces deportation be
cause he was caught smuggling 
cocaine across the US-Canadian 
border. Had he been imprisoned, 
Probert would have been allowed 
no chance of a bond hearing; 
therefore, it was ruled to be cruel 
and unusual punishment. Should 
Probert eventually be deported, 
it would end his NHL career be
cause he could never play again 
in the United States. Until a deci
sion is reached, Probert can con
tinue playing.
Things arent looking so good
THE PUCK 
STOPS HERE
_____________by Allan Bordius
for the New York Islanders. They 
suffered two of their most humili
ating defeats ever, losing to the 
New Jersey Devils 8-1, and then 
to the Montreal Canadiens 8-2 
the very next game.
The loss to the Devils tied the 
Islanders team record for the 
worst loss at home. As of Friday, 
the Islanders possessed the sec
ond worst record in the league (2-
7-0, 4 points).
Things are even worse for the 
Toronto Maple Leafs. They are 
only 1-91, 3 points and theyre 
not looking to get any better real 
soon. It was rumored on Satur
day that Toronto coach Doug Car
penter was about to be fired. If 
Toronto finishes last for the sea
son, they will be awarded the #1 
pick in next years draft.
Next years number one pick is 
almost certainly going to be teen
age superstar Eric Lindros  a 
player of Gretzky or Lemieux po
tential and ability. Unfortunately 
for the Maple Leafs, their number 
one pick no longer belongs to 
them - they traded it to New 
Jersey for defenseman Tom 
Kurvers. With the Islanders per
formance plummeting, it looks 
like a good bet that Lindros will
This past week brought some poten 
tial good news for the Pittsburgh Pei 
guins and their fans  superstar cen * 
ter Mario Lemieux could return to thi 
ice as early as January.
be playing in the Patrick Division 
for either the Devils or the Island
ers.
Currently, the New York Rang
ers possess the NHLs best record 
(8-3-0,16 points) with the New 
Jersey Devils (7-3-1, 15 points) 
and the Los Angeles Kings (7-1- 
1,15 points) in hot pursuit for the 
regular season championship. So 
far, both Edmonton (2-5-2, 6
points) and Buffalo (1-5-3 
points) have had the most dispointing starts, but this is a trei 
that is likely to change. Both t 
Chicago Blackhawks and t 
Calgary Flames have been plL 
ing strong hockey, each current 
with a 7-4-0,14 point record.
Allan Bourdius is a sophoma 
applied history major.
Soccer stuns Geneva 7-:
Jason Digman/ Tartan Senior Darkroom Technician 
SigmaN caR Js.hbDDbN hCCbtnCr Ca RfasF h AbgbIh nfhybN DNat .bhumgo C.b Rhff d.iNruhy 
mg C.b dhNChgrH 9OM 2mgv
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon soccer team fin
ished its 1990 home season with a 71 
thrashing of Geneva College. After a close 
first half, the Tartans ran away with the 
game to raise their overall record to 11-4 
1.
We had the same attitude as we had at 
the start of the season, said junior sweeper 
Alan Horn. Everyone wanted to play and 
was really excited.
The Tartans were helped out by luck 
early in the game. Junior Young Kang 
iofted a high kick into the Geneva goal box 
hoping to find an open Tartan, but the 
kick sailed over the crowd and into the top 
corner of the Geneva net for a 1-0 Tartan 
lead.
The Tartan lead held for almost 20 
mintues until Geneva evened the game on 
a comer kick. Junior Rob Schaeffer headed 
the ball away from the Tartan net, but the 
header came right to Genevas Chad 
Baumgartner. Baumgartner scorched the
ball past Tartan goalie Dave Shapiro to 
even the game at 11.
They werent very good; they came 
down and got a lucky goal, said freshman 
goal keeper Dave Shapiro. We had 
control of the game from the very 
beginning. We just couldnt believe they 
scored on us, said Horn. We just turned 
it on and came right back at them.
The deadlock only held for less than a 
minute though; freshman Min Chong 
was fouled in the goal box leading to a 
Tartan free kick. Chong caught Geneva 
goal keeper Chris Thornton going the 
wrong way and scored to the lower left 
comer to return the lead to the Tartans.
From there, it was all Tartans as 
Geneva fell victim to frustration and 
sloppy play. A Geneva offensive was de
fused when Genevas Pat Fend drew a 
yellow card for interfering with Shapiro. 
Baumgartner also drew a yellow card in 
the first half as Geneva slipped away.
The Tartans managed to capitalize once 
more before the end of the half; sophomore 
Mark Lotter headed the ball home off a
corner kick to give the Tartans i 
lead. Geneva changed goal keepers a 
helped by a Tartan shot off of the fc 
crossbar, held the Tartans scorelj 
until the end of the half.
In the second half the Tartans t 
the game open with four unanswerl 
goals. The Tartan defense also clampf 
down on Geneva, holding them scoii 
less the rest of the way.
Earlier in the week, the TartaJ 
notched their first tie of the seasoj 
playing to a 0-0 deadlock against forr 
Presidents Athletic Conference rivj 
Grove City.
They werent that good, said Hoi 
It had been raining the previous da 
we tried a passing game, but it wasjii 
too muddy. It was pretty much a kS| 
and-run game.
It was an extremely wet field, a 
Shapiro. That hindered our play i| 
credibly.
Unless the Tartans recieve a NCAl 
playoff bid, their season ends this wej 
Please see SOCCER,
CMU Rowing brings home medals from Columbus regatta
By WENDY EVANS
Special to The Tartan
Members of the Carnegie Mellon 
Rowing Club came home with two silver 
medals and a gold medal for its efforts at 
the Speakmon Regatta held in Colum
bus, Ohio, Saturday.
The race consisted of a 1500 meter 
sprint in novice and varsity divisions for 
men and women. Among the teams com
peting were Ohio State University, 
Purdue University, the University of 
Cincinnati, and local rivals Pitt and 
Duquesne.
The novice mens four and eight, and 
the novice womens four raced their first
"There were good strong showings in ail 
heats and finals. The novices did very well for 
their first race, and the mixed eight had an 
excellent race. 
 Coach Liz Winter
races, faring very well despite the chilly 
weather. However, the novice races had 
problems with false starts and colliding 
boats, and Carnegie Mellons crews were 
prevented from moving into the finals.
The mens novice eight placed second
in its heat, but did not qualify for the 
finals due to a technicality. The novice 
mens four placed third in a heat of five 
with a time of 7:16 while the novice 
womens four placed fifth.
In the varsity heats, the mens and
womens lightweight fours, racing their 
last races of the semester, had strong 
showings; two boats qualified for the 
finals. One of the two lightweight mens 
fours placed fifth in the final with a time 
of 6:39. The womens lightweight placed 
first in their heat and fourth overall, 
surpassing Cincinnati and Beaumont 
College.
The mens and womens heavyweight 
fours had outstanding races, both plac
ing first in their heats and second over
all. The men came across the finish line 
in 6:13, only seconds behind Pitts A 
boat. The women notched a time of 7:32, 
nine seconds behind Ohio State.
In one of the last events of the day, the
mixed eight, consisting of four menii 
four women, Carnegie Mellon had^ 
excellent race, winning CMUs onlygi 
medal against strong competition fro| 
Purdue, Ohio Athletic Club, 
Mercyhurst College.
Coach Liz Winter was pleased with tlj 
results. Todays race was main! 
preparation for our major race at ;tn 
Occoquan next week, she said. Con 
sidering this race was merely training, 
think we did extremely well.
There were good strong showings i| 
all heats and finals. The novices did veil 
well for their first race, and the mixel 
eight had an excellent race, fighting o 
Purdue, which is a very strong crew1,
Yes, 
It's Your Dream Come True, 
AB Tech is having a sale!!
Items for sale include: 
Speaker Cabinets 
'* Drivers 
Amplifiers 
Mixing Boards 
Microphones
c a i n e g ime. lion L*8htlnBoards
More or less, Do you know that big ugly loud main 
speaker system? Well, we're selling it. If you have 
$8,000 you can have it. We're not kidding.
XI 
o oCall 268-2104 for more information.
7-7777 Carry Out, and
Catering
Fifth Ave.
s.
Filmore
c
r
parkingYum
Wok
a
i
g
Forbes Ave.
CMU
400 South Craig Street Oakland 
(Near Cathedral of Learning)
Mon. - Sat. 11:00 am -10:00 pm 
Carry-out Parking All Hours.
Nearby Free Parking after 5:00 pm and Weekends

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 199017
FOOTBALL, from page 15
Tartan defense held Geneva to 
" yards and sacked quarterScott Schmitt four times. 
"*, who last week set a 
J record for most passing 
; in a game with 381 yards,
 J__-1-2 yards through
i air, 83 of those in the first
J:
[Schmitts] a good quartersaid CMU Head Coach 
Lackner. Hes the type of 
terbackthatifhestandsback 
!, he can pick you apart and 
. can kill you. But we didnt feel 
; had great mobility. We felt 
~ pressure on him in a few
_______t way s would help us and
[ think it accomplished what we 
J to get accomplished.
We revised our blitz package a 
1' bit, said senior defensive 
We knew
____I going to throw the ball.
y wanted to throw the ball 
; we put good pressure on the
It was also a game of miscues. 
Tartans fumbled the ball 
on the first play from scrimto begin the tragedy of er. All told, there were seven
-------! in the game, three by
___i and four  all inter!  by Geneva. Schmitts 
iterception came as time 
to end the game as it
Tartans strengthen hopes for playoffs
...it would be criminal if we dont 
make the playoffs this year after go
ing 10-0.
 Head Coach Rich Lackner
began, with a turnover.
After a scoreless first quarter in 
which both teams failed to capi
talize on key opportunities, the 
Golden Tornadoes defense scored 
the games first touchdown. After 
an interception by linebacker Bob 
OToole stifled a Geneva drive deep 
in Tartan territory, the CMU of
fense took over at its own 24.
Coach put it on our shoulders 
Monday that it would be up to us 
to make the big plays and stop 
them, and we did, said junior 
defensive back John Fratto.
Snyder, last weeks Sports Il
lustrated Small College Player of 
the Week, hit senior halfback 
Scott Bamyak for a gain of 29 
yards and a first down to the 
Geneva 39. But two plays later, 
linebacker Patsy Esposito picked 
off a Snyder pass and returned 
the ball 67 yards for a touchdown. 
Tom Hansens extra point gave 
the Golden Tornadoes a 7-0 lead.
But the Tartans evened things 
up. Snyder engineered a sevenplay, 85-yard drive to the Geneva
David Docktor/Tartan Staff Photographer 
JbgmaN 2mub NbsbmIbN pag pbhNa shNNmbr C.b Rhff ua2gDmbfuv
NORMAL VOLUNTEERS
Male Subjects in good health between ages 18-45 are jMjfe, 
needed for a study testing a new eye medication.
Earn $150
Conducted by The Eye & Ear Institute of Pittsburgh 
For more information call 647-7647
Allied Health 
Professionals & 
Administrators
Plan a future that soars. 
Take your science-related degree 
into the Air Force, and become an 
officer in the Biomedical Sciences 
Corps. Youll learn more, youll grow 
faster-youll work with other dedi
cated professionals in a quality envi
ronment where your contributions 
are needed.
In short, youll gain more of every
thing that matters most to you. You 
and the Air Force. Launch now-call
USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS 
412-687-7313
one yardline. The key play was a 
66-yard run by Snyder on thirdand-one that gave the Tartans 
first down at the 11-yard line.
It was a run-pass option, said 
Snyder. They bit on the run and 
left me. When I got out there, they 
still didnt know I had the ball. 
The one kid did, and hes the one 
that ended up tracking me down. 
He had a good angle and I was 
dying. I had never run the ball 
that far in my life.
An illegal procedure penalty 
backed the Tartans up to the 16, 
but on the next play, Snyder hit 
halfback Drew Pizzurro for 14 
yards and a first down on the 
Geneva two. Three plays later, 
senior fullback Fran Bellante took 
the ball in and Joe Schwerhas 
extra point tied the score at seven 
with 8:44 left.
Billy came back in the ballgame 
[after the first interception] and 
socked some beautiful balls in 
there, said Lackner. That kind 
of thing doesnt rattle a kid like 
Billy. Hes a competitor.
The Tartan defense stopped the 
Golden Tornadoes cold on their 
next possession. Genevamanaged 
just 19 yards in ten plays, and on 
fourth-and-two, CMU defenders 
dropped halfback Jim Bellante 
just short of the first-down 
marker. The Tartans retained 
possession at their own 35 and 
the offense went to work.
A key completion to senior wide 
receiver Don DeCaro on thirdand-four gave the Tartans firstand-10 the Geneva 36. After three 
short ground gains, on a secondand-10 play, the Tartans received 
a big break. Snyders pass to 
DeCaro was incomplete, but 
Geneva was whistled for passinterference, giving the Tartans 
first-and-10 at the nine yard line. 
Schwerha booted a 25-yard field 
goal to give the Tartans a 10-7 
lead going into the locker room.
You always get nervous in close 
situations, said Schwerha. But 
if you start concentrating on the 
nervousness instead of making 
the kick, youll miss it.
The Tartans carried their firsthalf momentum into their first 
drive of the second half. Two con
secutive sacks forced Geneva to 
punt on their first possession. 
Fratto returned Travis Frasiers 
punt 22 yards to give the Tartans 
excellent field position at the 
Geneva 39.
Snyder connected with tight end 
Josh Hvizdos for 12 yards and a 
first down at the 26 and two plays 
later, Bamyak ran the ball in for 
a 23-yard touchdown to put the
Tartans up 16-7. It was the 16th 
rushing touchdown of the season 
for Barnyak, and broke Bob 
Gasiors record of 15.
Schwerhas extra point made 
the score 177 with just more 
than 11 minutes remaining in the 
third quarter. Geneva narrowed 
the gap two possessions later. On 
the first play from scrimmage, 
fullback Nate Haddox rambled 
57 yards for Genevas second 
touchdown of the game. Hansens 
extra point brought the score to 
17-14.
With 10:52 left in the game, the 
Tartans took over at their own 16 
and played smart, controlled 
football. Twelve straight rushing 
plays brought the ball to the 
Geneva 35. On third-and-11, 
Snyder hit DeCaro for 20 yards 
and a big first down to keep the 
drive alive and keep the clock 
moving. Bellante was stopped 
short on fourth-and-one at the six 
yardline, but Geneva took over 
deep in their own territory and 
with only 1:20 left in the game.
The Tartan defense almost beat 
itself on this final Geneva drive. 
On third-and-10, Schmitts pass 
fell incompete, but a pass inter
ference call against the Tartans 
gave Geneva a first down at the 
Geneva 18. On the next play, 
Schmitt hit wide receiver Frank 
Buffington for 29 yards and a first 
down to the Geneva 47.
A defensive holding call on second-and-10 gave the Golden Tor
nadoes the ball in Tartan terri
tory at the 44. But the defense 
pulled together and forced three 
consecutive incompletions to put 
Geneva in a desperate fourth-andeight situation. On the games 
final play, Schmitt threw the ball 
up for grabs and Fratto came up 
with the Tartans fourth inter
ception of the game.
We changed our defense this 
week so me and Chris [Balouris] 
were coming on crosses, stunting 
and everything, said sophomore 
linebacker Matt Pielert. We had 
the quarterback scrambling a lot 
and he had to throw it where he 
didnt want to.
The Tartans take their 8-0 
record,. their 11-game winning 
streak, and their playoff drive on 
the road this Saturday as they 
travel to New London, Connecti
cut to play the Coast Guard Acad
emy. Game time is 1:30 pm, and 
the game will be broadcast on 
WRCT (88.3 FM).
Were hoping to go in [to the 
playoffs] through the front door, 
said Schwerha. Theres a small 
possibility we might not make it, 
but were confident we will. Were 
going to beat these two teams, 
beat them decisively, and hope
fully move up in the rankings.
This is a great football team 
and I think it would be criminal if 
we dont make the playoffs this 
year after going 10-0, said 
Lackner.
uavia uocKior/ ianan oian rnuiograpner
dhNChg rbgmaN :ihNCbNRhsF )mffy JgyubN ChFbr h RNbhF DNat rbgumgo C.b 
Rhff mgCa C.b hmN hgu Nigr DaN ratb yhNuhobv hNgbomb 3bffag 2ag mCr 
bmo.C. ohtb C.mr ybhN JhCiNuhy Ry ubDbhCmgo AbgbIh affbob M9OM1v 
hrC JhCiNuhyw JgyubN satnfbCbu M9 aD M9 nhrrbr Ca bhNg .mtrbfD h 
nfhsb mg C.b pmImrmag  NbsaNu RaaFrw hgu ratb hCCbgCmag DNat SigmaN 
ubbrNamoathe Jbb C.b rCaNy ag nhob MPv
comments from conversations with some men at CMU
MEN WANT WOMEN TO KNOW
brr thFbinw taNb .agbrCyV
-.bg 2b rbbt tarC ubChs.buw boaCmrCmshf hgu6aN 
hooNbrrmIbw 2b hNb irihffy Dbbfmgo aiN rthffbrC hgu 
tarC mg gbbu aD .ithg sagChsC
*V*
GaC hff tbg hNb aiC Ca obC rb\V
dhFb h s.hgsbkoa aiC 2mC. h gmsb oiyV
V-b ua fmFb 2atbg Ca thFb C.b DmNrC taIbV
5d.hC 2bNb gaC fmFb bIbNy aC.bN oiyV
5,IbNyRauy .hr C.b rhtb rb\ihf ubrmNbrw RiC tbg 
.hIb Rbbg Chio.C Ca Rb hooNbrraNr C.Naio. dEw 
taImbrw rasmbCyv JasmbCy thFbr ir umDDbNbgCv
73bg shg Rb .hnnmfy tagaohtairV
d jai uagC .hIb Ca CNy Ca umroimrb C.b DmNrC taIbV
X/
53bg uagC 2hgC Ca Rb nNbrriNbu mgCa thFmgo hff 
C.b ubsmrmagr
ENGINEERSOVERSEAS
DONT:
-wear a rimC hgu Cmb 
8r.iDDfb nhnbNr and answer 
phones
OrmC hC h ubrF all day
DO:
-live in DaNbmog saigCNmbr 
-work aiCuaaNr 
-take s.hNob 
-make ubsmrmagr 
-face many s.hffbgobr 
-bear heavy NbrnagrmRmfmCy 
-work fago .aiNr 
OanbNhCb sophisticated elec
tronic equipment 
ONbsaNu information on oil and 
gas wells
OmgCbNnNbC that Information 
ENJOY:
-being their a2g Rarr 
-top salaries/benefits
THIS JOB IS NOT FOR 
EVERYONE  BUT IT 
COULD BE FOR YOU!
Schlumberger, the world leader 
in Wireline Well Logging has 
immediate career opportunities 
Overseas for Individuals with 
an M.S. or B.S. degree in. E.E., 
M.E., Physics, Aerospace 
Engineering or the GeoSciences, excellent scholastic 
record and hands-on aptitude.
OPENINGS FOR 
l,c3WG,Gd
POSITIONS
U.S or Canadian Citizenship preferred
INFORMATION MEETING:
Date: November 29, 1990 
Time: 7 pm  9 pm 
Place: Skibo Room 12
INTERVIEWING:
November 30, 1990
8Wff shgumuhCbr tirC hCCbgu gDaNthCmag 3bbCmgo
Schlumberger
Exceptional people Exceptional technology Worldwide

---------------------------------------------------

18The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 1990
IM Scoreboard
cW(7,d)WRobotics A02Welchaholics11Dragon Ball WTHM20Beta D01Dragon Balls WTHM A00
Mathletes11SAE B11Green Aces II00Gd,c3,pWd,Gd,c3,pWd,Tower of Mudge03Mudge B-l02Gd,c3,pWd,Phi Kap B01
Kristygasm Not02
NORTHDIVISION ADIVISION BDIVISION ADIVISION C
Green Aces10SAE A20USS Mellon20DIVISION HDU A10KDR10
Kill Shot10Volleyball Club20DTD A10CGS0220GSIA 110Bio Degradables00
?D01The Working Sets10Remediators11SDC11Theta Xi T01The Blades00
 Armadillo & Sons01High Bailers01Pika B01Pilam A11Azzuri01SAES01
Fringe A02Dynamite02Phi Kap B11
pOUTHLust02Tudor Roaches02DIVISION BDIVISION D
SAE Ai0DIVISION CTheta Xi X10Trojans10
Norsemeni0DIVISION BHedgehogs20DIVISION 1DTD A00Dragon Balls00
Pika01Theta Xi10SAE C20Dream Team20The Rust Boys00Pilam00
Mech E Overgrads01Robotics B10Green Aces11Delta Gamma11Pink Torpedoes01The Pollutants01
.Networkers11Jack D. Gralps02A Phi O11
3GUcJWombats From Hell11KDR02DU A02DIVISION CDIVISION E
i'Kalvin & the Hobs11ATO10Zoo BM0DIVISION AMarybelle C-Squad02DIVISION D-Wd,c lUUPhi Kap A00Top Bong11
SigTau20ASA B-Team20X00USS Carnegie00
Hugo10DIVISION CTrojans B203WSUcJDomestic Violence01Psyclones01
Sreen Aces II01Six Pack Attack20Zoo A11Sperm Whales30
Eesix01Beta20Doherty Dinosaurs02Sudsuckers21DIVISION DDIVISION F
ftlam01BYOB11Pilam B02USS Carnegie12KSA A10Tired Ones10
Mathletes11USS Mellon03Ballbusters00KSA B00
DIVISION BKSA02DIVISION EZoo A00CIA00 .
Phi Kap20Melting Pot02Phi Kap A203GUcJPterodactyls01DU B01
USS Carnegie10Trojans A20Theta Xi30
Theta Xi11DIVISION DFringe B11Ten Feet Under20DIVISION EDIVISION G
bu A01The West20Sudsuckers02SAE21Doherty Dynasty10No games played.
SAE E02The Bumping Lemmas10Pioneers02Zoo21The Lax Men00
ASA A-Team11Green Aces12Pika00DIVISION H
EU,j)WUSS Carnegie11DIVISION FCIA03SAE A01DTD B10
The Hintstones01Jolly Rogers20Pika03USS Mellon10
3WSUcJPika A02KSA113GUcJEPP00
Networkers20Theta Xi11JU,cSig Tau Slammers01
jpycho103GUcJSig Tau Hammers11DIVISION ABlack Rain01
Barcrawlers21SDG023WSUcJNo games played.
the Blocks World11DIVISION ATheta Xi10-U3,G UGj
Mech. Eng.11Sig Tau Slammers30DIVISION GMech. Eng.10DIVISION BNo games played. League play
<
if)02CGS0111Black Rain20Real Mellon01Star & Crescents10starts this week.
SPORTS IN SEASON
Touch Football
Commissioners
Majors  Rich Romeo, x8335
Intermediate  Eric Pfefferle,
441-7003
Minors  Sujit Bhattacharya, 
X4084
Women Only  Kris Pasqualin, 
x5978
The following are the results of 
IM Touch Football finals from Oc
tober 22:
Major League
; Beta 41, Crunch Bunch 31 
Intermediate League 
SAE 32, NP Completions 26 
|OT)
Minor League 
KSA19, Green Aces 6
Tennis
Commissioner 
Todd Balbera, x8424 
Phi Kappa Theta defeated 
Theta Xi B for the minor league 
iitle.
IM News
Water Polo
Commissioner 
Tom Fabian, x8371
Please play all matches as 
scheduled. The playoffs will be
gin on Monday.
Soccer
Commissioners
Majors  Scott Mills, x5308
IntermediateJohnSupp,x8423
Minors  Sujit Bhattacharya,
x4084
Women Only  Kris Pasqualin, 
x5978
Please check the IM bulletin 
board for team standings and 
match schedules. Games will be 
played on Flagstaff Hill and 
Gesling Stadi um. A new IM record 
of 62 teams was set this year.
Six Person Volleyball
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Schedules and standings are 
posted on the IM bulletin board. 
A new IM record of 75 teams was
National Scoreboard
set this year.
Racquetball
Commissioner 
Tom Murphy, x8424 
Schedules are complete and can 
be picked up in the IM office. Play 
all matches as scheduled and re
port scores to the IM office.
Bowling
Commissioner 
Kris Pasqualin, x5978 
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office. Matches 
will be held on Saturday morn
ings at Forward Lanes; please 
report winning scores to the com
missioner. A new IM record of 19 
teams was set this year.
Chess
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Schedules can be picked up in 
the IM office; please play all 
matches as scheduled.
Team Table Tennis
Commissioner 
Jon Wei, x8354 
League schedules can be picked 
up in the IM office. Please report 
all winning scores to the IM office 
or to the commissioner.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Three Person Volleyball
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm.
Backgammon
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm.
Bridge
No commissioner as of 10126 
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm.
Compiled by 
JASON McDONALD
GWdUGW TUUd)W ,WA7,
Miami 27, Indianapolis 7 
Philadelphia 21, Dallas 20 
NY Jets 17, Houston 12 
Green Bay 24, Minnesota 10
Detroit 27, New Orleans 10 
Buffalo 27, New England 10 
San Diego 41, Tampa Bay 10 
San Francisco 20, Cleveland 17 
Chicago 31, Phoenix 21 
NY Giants 21, Washington 10
football ice hockey intramurals rodeo track and field swimming 
golf cow tipping tennis crew rugby dwarf bowling buggy basket
ball cross country polo eweputz tossing soccer field hockey laj football ice hockey 
]bng golf cow tipping 
basketball cross country 
\%psse glicker beating 
olo eweputz tossing
crosse glicker beatit 
intramurals rodeo 
tennis crew rugby dwarf tioutimg 
polo eweputz tossii 
wrestling baseball,
soccer field hockey lacrosse 'glicHer beating wrestling baseball 
football ice hockey intramurals rodeo track and field swimming 
golf cow tipping tennis crew rugby dwarf bowling buggy basket
ball cross country polo eweputz tossing soccer field hockey la
crosse glicker beating wrestling baseball kick boxing cross country 
polo eweputz tossing soccer field hockey lacrosse glicker beating 
wrestling baseball football ice hockey intramurals rodeo track 
and field swimming golf cow tipping tennis crew rugby dwarf 
bowling buggy basketball cross country polo eweputz tossing lac
D yai 2aifu fmFb Ca 2NmCb DaN C.b rnaNCr rbsCmag rCan Ry JFmRa PB 
aN shff \$MMM hgu hrF DaN LhCmb aN Shragv
Strategic Planning Associates, Inc. 
and 
Temple, Barker & Sloane, Inc.
WASHINGTON, DC  NEW YORK  BOSTON  SAN FRANCISCO  LONDON  PARIS
Cordially invite you to a presentation on
Opportunities in 
Management Consulting
Please join Rich Noll, Vice President, and CMU graduates for a discussion of 
career opportunities in our Washington and New York offices.
Tuesday, November 6,1990 
Skibo Room #12 7:00 pm
A discussion on minority recruiting opportunities will follow
Interested 1991 graduates submit resumes and transcripts to: 
Career Services and Placement 
December 3,1990 - January 14,1991

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 199019
Volleyball 
places sixth 
at UAAs
VOLLEYBALL, from page 15
team.
Finishing last in their pool, the 
Tartans were in the losers bracket 
where the best team would finish 
fifth. CMU began this bracket 
with a convincing win against 
Emory 15-5,1511,1511. Fisher 
highlighted the teams play by 
saying Nice consistent serving 
and passing. [We] started out with
nice push and didnt let up.
CMUs last opponent was 
Brandies University, which in re
cent years has given CMU ex
tremely hardfbught matches. The 
last meeting between the two 
teams was in the UAA Round 
Robin at mid-season where 
Carnegie Mellon won with dra
matic style in five games. This 
time CMU never did start click
ing, according to Fisher. The 
Tartans lost in four games 11-15, 
15-7, 9-15, 8-15.
Senior captain Nicole Hanak, 
sophomore Ann Feng, and Wasko 
played well according to Fisher. 
Hanak had an all-around strong 
tournament while Feng was ex
cellent on defense.
This put Carnegie Mellon sixth 
overall in the final standings. 
Fisher as well as the team were 
disappointed for many reasons. 
Fisher believed her team could 
have played stronger andbelieved 
Hanak should have made the UAA 
All-Star team.
The team members were dis
appointed with their placing and 
\vith their loss to rivals Brandies. 
Fisher says, [We are] trying to 
keep everything in perspective. 
Were a young team and a young 
coach and hope to do better in 
later years.
Jason Digman/Tartan Senior Darkroom Technician 
SigmaN caR Js.hbDDbN thgbiIbNr C.Naio. C.b AbgbIh ubDbgrbvSoccer routs Geneva
JU,cw DNat page MX
with a Saturday University Ath
letic Association game against the 
University of Chicago. The Tar
tans are currently 43 in the UAA. 
The NCAA will announce its bids 
today.
They shouldnt be too much of 
a problem for us, said Horn.
Theyre something like 0-5 in 
the UAA. The only problem is 
that the game will be on grass, 
and we havent played well on 
grass this year.
We havent been playing up to 
our potential lately, said Shapiro. 
But I think we really played like 
our old selves against Geneva.Rugby disappointed at Wheeling
RUGBY, from page 15
conversion kick was good, setting 
the score at 6-0.
Play remained stagnant for 
roughly half of the period, with 
both teams struggling for the ball.
; Wheeling then scored again on 
i penalty kick to up their score; 
another three points, 9-0.
Carnegie Mellon, refusing to be 
emotionally let down by 
Wheelings lead, surged back to 
score late in the first half. Speedy 
fullback Kevin Lucas broke nu
merous tackles and won a 60- 
meter footrace to score a try for 
CMU.
Ever-consistent Gerry Stocker 
made the points-after kick, setting 
tile score to 9-6. Shortly after
wards, CMU scored again when 
Stocker made a difficult penalty
kick. The two teams left the field 
at halftime with the score tied at 
9-9.
The second half saw the oppos
ing scrummies continuing to ruck 
and maul for ball possession. 
Notable performances included 
freshman James Phimisters 
short but aggressive runs.
Although CMUs scrum won the 
ball in the majority of their at
tempts, the backfield simply could 
not advance or even maintain the 
ball. At the middle of the half, 
Wheelings scrum drove through 
CMU defenders to score out of a 
try-line maul.
Wheeling missed the pointsafter kick, so its lead was only 
four points, 13-9. CMU managed 
to keep the ball in Wheeling ter
ritory, but was repeatedly turned
One 14 One Item Pizza
only
$5.00
FOURSIARPIZZA
Fast Free Delivery
10 Minute Pick Up Service
PRICES SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE SALES TAX683-0400
4740 BAUM BLVD. -OAKLAND
San Francisco tightens grip
Two Thursday nights ago 
the seasons first Thursday night 
game, the New England Patriots 
passed up a perfect opportunity 
to throw the AFC East into tur
moil. Despite taking the ball from 
Miami five times, the Pats lost to 
the Dolphins, 1710.
The Cincinnati Bengals 
marched into Cleveland last 
Monday night and attempted to 
replay what the Reds had done 
just two nights before. Somehow, 
though, bio wing out an intrastate 
rival that you were favored to win 
against just isnt as exciting as 
sweeping a team against whom 
you werent supposed to win one 
game. The Bengals made fools of 
the Browns, 3414.
The Steelers win streak ended 
rather abruptly at two, after tak
ing on the best team in the NFL 
last Sunday. The Steelers had a 
hold of the game until a crucial
NFL NEWS
by Dave Martin
sits alone in the Central cellar at 
1-5.
The New York Giants eeked out 
a victory over Phoenix last Sun
day, and still held a two-game 
lead over rival Washington, 
against whom they played yes
terday. Dallas, oddly enough, is 
third in the NFC East, by a half 
game over both Phoenix and dis
appointing Philadelphia.
In the AFC, things appear much 
tighter. In the east, Miami and
Buffalo are tied for first place, 
call near the end of the first half though the closest team in chalbroke their defense and their 
spirit.
A questionable interference call 
in the end zone on what was a 
fantastic defensive play put the 
San Francisco 49ers on the one 
yard-line and allowed the touch
down three plays later. From then 
on, the Niners dominated both 
sides of the ball.
As we reach mid-season, only 
the San Francisco 49ers appear 
to have a strangle hold over their 
surprisingly weak NFC West di
vision at 6-0, as the Los Angeles 
Rams, Atlanta Falcons, and New 
Orleans Saints all trail them at 
2-4.
Chicago leads the NFC Central 
by two games over a fairly sur
prising Tampa Bay team, which 
is 4^-3, behind by only a game and 
a half, as the Bears are 51 after 
a week off. Minnesota, the division 
favorite coming into the season,
lenging them are the Indianapo
lis Colts, who were 2-4 going into 
yesterdays game with the first 
place Miami Dolphins.
As has been normal for the past 
few years, the Bengals command 
the AFC Central, though only by 
a game over Houston. But dont 
begin to doubt the Steelers 
chances here.
The West is less of a struggle, as 
the Raiders lead the Chiefs by 
two games and, behind Bo Jack
son, carry an aura of invincibility, 
something that the Raiders have 
been missing since the mid to late 
70s and early 80s. They are my 
mid-season pick for the AFCs 
representative in the Super Bowl.
Tonight, the Pittsburgh Steelers 
continue to play western confer
ence teams, hosting the Los An
geles Rams. After two brilliant 
wins over AFC West opponents, 
the Steelers returned to below
mediocrity in the second half oT 
the Niners game. Expect the 
Steelers to bounce back against 
the struggling Rams at Three 
Rivers, 27-13.
On Sunday, the Steelers will 
play their third straight opponent; 
from the NFC West, hosting th 
Atlanta Falcons. Look for a game 
similar to the Monday night Ram s 
game, only harder hitting, and 
with more points.
Remember, Chuck Noll doesnt 
like Atlanta coach J erry Gian ville, 
and should victimize his wea^ 
secondary, Steelers 38-13.
Buffalo over the Browns, 21 
17. Chicago in a tussle agains 
Tampa, 24-20. Dallas over the 
New York Jets in one of the wors,t 
matchups this year, 27-17. Th 
Rams trying desperately to get oii 
track against the worst road teanj 
in the league, Houston, 31-21^ 
Philadelphia in a close one over; 
New England, 23-20. Cincinnati 
over New Orleans 24-17. Miami 
easily by Phoenix 34-10.
Seattle hosting San Diego in 
the Kingdome where the 
Seahawks appear to be able to 
pull things together, 31-23. San 
Francisco over one of the only two 
teams to beat them last year,* 
Green Bay, 3114. Washington 
over Detroit 35-21. Denver ovejj 
Minnesota by default, 31-30.
And this weeks game of the 
week comes from the AFC Wes| 
battle for first place, in one of two 
games that should determine th^ 
division champion. The Los Ana 
geles Raiders travel to Kansa_s 
City in hopes of tightening theift 
grip over the entire AFC, no$ 
merely their division. For B6 
Jackson, it will be a kind of home 
coming; the Raiders should win a 
close one, 24-21.
Dave Martin is a freshman 
majoring in psychology.
back by Wheeling desperation 
kicks.
When the final whistle blew, a 
dejected CMU team left the field 
carrying a heavy 13-9 loss on their 
shoulders.
Inside-center Wild Bill Lucier 
remarked of the game, Were 
[CMU] in a developmental stage 
right now, with a lot of inexperi
enced guys still picking up the 
subtleties of the game.
That lack of experience was 
evident today. However, we have 
a lot of raw, untapped talent that 
we should be able to utilize next 
season. Were optimistic.
CMU rugby has two weeks to 
prepare for their next game 
against Allegheny College, tradi
tionally one of Carnegie Mellons 
weaker opponents.
Classifieds
Housing
Short Term Shadyside 
Inn Apartment Suites. 
Elegantly furnished, well 
appointed, Studio 1 & 2 
bedroom suites, fully 
equipped kitchen. Includes 
free cable (HBO), phone, 
parking, linens. One block to 
Walnut St. shops. From $41 
per day. Daily & Weekly 
rate available. 441-4444.
Jobs
Activists, Environmen
talists: Work 3 days a week, 
1:30-10:30 PM, and earn 
$165-$200 per week. Clean 
Water Action, 765-3053. Ask 
for Dion.
Fast Fundraising 
Program$1000 in just 
one week. Earn up to $1000 
for your campus 
organization. Plus a chance 
at $5000 more! This 
program works! No 
investment needed. Call 1- 
800-932-0528, ext. 50.
Earn $500$1500 part 
time stuffing envelopes in 
your home. For free 
information, send a self 
addressed, stamped 
envelope to: P.O. Box 81953, 
Dept. P 115, Albuquerque, 
NM, 87198.
Part Time Jobs for the 
environment. Great) for the 
college student. Work with 
Penn PIRG, the states 
fastest growing 
environmental and 
consumer campaign. 
Training, advancement, 
flexible days. Earn $30$50 
a day. Call Robin 521-8050.
Earn $2500 and Free Spring 
Break Trips to Bahamas, 
Jamaica as part-time Campus 
Rep for Spring Break Travel 
1-800-638-6786.
Healthy Womenages 18- 
37 (34 for smokers) needed 
for oral contraceptive study 
at Magee-Womens Hospital. 
One year commitment. 
Reimbursement. For details 
call 647-4259 ( Mon.Fri.).
Spring Break 1991 
Individual or student
organization needed to 
promote Spring Break trip. 
Earn money, free trips, and 
valuable work experience. 
Call now!! Inter-Campus 
Programs: 1-800-327-6013.
Attention: Fraternities, 
Sororities, Clubs, and 
Individuals. Trip organizers 
wanted for fantastic Ski and 
Sun Tours. Earn cash 
commissions and/or go for 
free. Call the #1 company in 
college travel, Moguls Ski 
and Sun Tours, Inc., 1-800- 
666-4857.
Mothers Helper 
Squirrel Hill. 3 1/2 year old 
and infant. 45 days, hours 
between 12 and 8pm. 681- 
0605.
Campus Reps 
Individual or Student 
Organization  needed to 
promote our Spring Break 
Packages on campus. Free 
trips plus Commission. Call 
Campus Marketing. 1-800- 
423-5264.
Services
Stunguns: legal, powerful 
protection  Teargas: 
attacker is rendered 
helpless  Guns  Martial 
Arts. Attention: college 
students, young adults  
Marys Shoppe. 835-2204.
Parties *** Parties *** 
Parties  We have 
everything for your party at 
Papermart  One Stop 
Party Shopping. Stroll down 
Morewood Avenue to Baum 
Boulevard. Theme 
decorations. Lots of fun 
doodads and fantastic la-dedah. Gag gifts and Fake 
vomit. Great greeting cards. 
681-8900.
Help Wanted  3.5 acre 
site. Needs Junior Architect. 
Will pay for your ideas and 
preparations. Call 469-8110.
***Low Student 
Fares***AYH
ft^!i*EorailI%esi:!:irBaidBodBi*i: 
All to be found at Forum 
Travel. Visit us at 4608 
Winthrop St. (off South 
Craig) or call us at 681- 
4099.
Miscellaneous
Adoption  Married 
professional couple (shes 
CMU grad) want baby to 
love. Counseling, expenses 
available. Legal, 
confidential. Call collect: 
(412)885-2470.
Private Adoption is a
compassionate and 
perfectly legal way to show 
your love for your child. 
This choice offers you paid 
medical and legal 
expenses, no foster care or 
agency hassles, and a cozy 
place to live while 
pregnant.
We will be a milk and 
cookies MOM and a little 
league DAD, and we 
promise a full and happy 
life for a child.
We are easy to talk with 
and care about your needs. 
If you would like to meet 
with us, or simply talk, 
please call us collect  
(412) 836-4754.
Having a baby? ... or
know someone who is? 
Maybe theyre not ready 
for parenthood right now. 
Private adoption can offer 
an intimate and personal 
alternative. It gives the 
birth mother the chance to 
meet and know us, a 
happily married couple 
looking foreword to hot 
chocolate, bedtime stories, 
good night kisses and trips 
to the zoo.
We can offer emotional 
support and a cozy place to 
stay if needed. We can 
legally pay medical 
expenses. Were friendly 
and easy to talk with, so 
call collect anytime 
(412)421-8997.
FOR SALE
Is it true, Govt seized 
vehicles from $100? Call 
for immediate information. 
504-649-5745 Ext. 10300.
Please send Classifieds to 
The Tartan, Box 17, 
Carnegie Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, PA 
15213. Call 268-2111 for 
more information.

---------------------------------------------------

V
Thursday, November 8 
8:00 p.m. Skibo Ballroom
Darol Anger '
I
 . i
. I
David Balakrishnan !
Mark Summer
Katrina Wreede
Turtle Island String Quartet
W i ii <1 11 a ni II i I I j a / / v r (* <> r d i n artist s
Jazz: it's nothing like mutant ninjas . . .
carnegie
mellonTickets available at Skibo information desk
wYErQutm
neartttetMen
$3 with CMU i.d. 
17 for all others

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
page 3: H&iSS Research Centers
Engineering Design Research Center 
page 4: SUPA Fights the Drug War with High Technology
page 5: Health Risks of Appliances Shock Researchers
page 6: Fine Arts and Computer Science Harmonize at SCI
SUPA Research Centers 
page 7: Elderly Patients Get Personalized Care
page 8: CMRI Sensors Are Saving Lives
page 9: Mellon Institute Research Centers
page 10: CMU Helps Speed Electronic Communications 
School of Computer Science Research Centers 
page 11 : Simulab Defogs Difficult Economic Theories 
page 12: Breathing Fresh Air into Architecture 
page 13: Design Students Tackle the Problem of Recycling 
page 14: CIT Research Centers 
page 15: GSIA Researches Risks 
GSIA Research Centers
Total sponsored research costs, for fiscal year 1989:
SCS 
CIT 
SEi
The High Price of International Status
CMRI
2 \kr-neg'-f\
Source: 
Carnegie Mellon 
Facts 1990.
Think of your professors; what image comes to mind? Possibly you 
think of how fair their tests are, how well they run lectures, or how much 
homework they assign. But teaching a class is only one part of a professor's 
job.
Research does not mean little projects professors like to dawdle with 
when they get a break from classes, it is a major focus of the their jobs here 
at Carnegie Mellon. Research is roughly fifty percent of Carnegie Mellon's 
budget. In fact, research accomplishments are a key part of earning tenure 
in a department.
Although we don't really get a chance to see or hear about most of it, 
the research affiliated with CMU benefits students. It means that students 
are being taught by professors who are at the forefront of 
their respective fields.
Also, the quality and amount of research that goes on at a school 
directly reflects on its academic reputation.
This Karnege explores research on and around campus, both behind 
the scenes and well publicized, in a number of different departments and 
research centers. Throughout the issue you will find listings of the numer
ous research centers tucked away on and around campus.
All of the research center lists throughout the issue were provided by the Provost's 
Office.
WPATC
SUPA
CFA
Howdy Pierce/The Tartan

---------------------------------------------------

Engineering Design Research Center
-H&SS Research 
Centers
bgCbN DaN C.b pbrmog aD ,uishCmaghf atniCmgo 
/p," develops educational applications of com
puters and computer-based technologies. Preston 
Covey, Elliot Dunlap Smith Hall, Second Floor, 
X7641
bgCbN DaN ,uishCmaghf atniCmgo mg ,gofmr. 
/,," researches, designs, and implements 
computer tools for writing. Christine Neuwirth, 
English Department, Baker Hall 145F, X8702
bgCbN DaN C.b JCiuy aD -NmCmgo /J-" focuses on 
the cognitive approach to writing and crucial literacy 
to assist writers in developing effective expert" 
strategies for planning, generating, and organizing 
Ideas. Linda Flower, English Department Baker 
Hall 145H, x2863; John Hayes, Psychology Depart
ment, Baker Hall 340-D, x2781
attigmshCmagr pbrmog bgCbN /p" focuses on 
the training of professional writers, documentation 
specialists, researchers, and teachers. Research 
Is undertaken to establish the most effective com
munications techniques for meshing the verbal 
with the visual in order to precisely convey ideas. 
Erwin Steinberg, English Department, Baker Hall 
237A, X2866
hRaNhCaNy DaN atniChCmaghf mgoimrCmsr /"
research emphasis includes developing naturallanguage processing software for educational and 
research purposes with specific research foci in
volving the development of: (1) computational lexi
cons; (2) morphological analysis software; (3) com
putational-linguistic methods to enhance automated 
indexing and retrieval of text; and (4) Intelligent 
tutoring systems forforelgn languages. David Evans, 
Philosophy Department, Baker Hall 135L, x8574
lmCCrRiNo. bgCbN DaN Jasmhf xmrCaNy coordinates 
seminars and research conferences designed to 
improve social history theory and methodology. 
Peter Stearns, History Department, Baker Hall 
240, X2880
lNaoNht DaN gCbNghCmaghf lbhsb hgu JbsiNmCy 
/llJ" areas of research Include; (1) finding the 
optimal balance between national security invest
ment in civil and military sectors; (2) studying arms 
race behavior; (3) studying the evolution of strategic 
analysis as a profession; and (4) assessing tech
nologies that may change the "ground rules" of 
international relations. GrangerMorgan, EPP, Baker 
Hall 129H, X2672
JChCmrCmshf bgCbNDaN (ihfmCy tnNaIbtbgC /J("
works with major United States corporations to 
establish Industrial quality improvement programs, 
Provide education to industrial workers, and engage 
'n research to achieve continual improvement of 
complex production processes. John Lehoczky, 
Statistics Department, Baker Hall 232G, x8725
The connection between vision and realization 
can be difficult, especially when the vision is a 
design of a tool and realization means the produc
tion of the tool. The steps in between become 
reminiscent of a game of 'pass the secret'; although 
changes in the original concept are necessary to 
create the final product, the concept can go through 
so many changes that the entire process becomes 
inefficient. The Engineering Design Research Center 
(EDRC) is working through their research to bring 
vision and realization together by enabling everyone 
involved in the design-to-manufacture process to 
speak the same language  computer language, that 
is.
One project in the EDRC that has been attracting 
a lot of attention is the development of Noodles, a 
design application that would allow designers to 
start from a simple wireframe representation of a 
product and create a solid, three-dimensional 
representation without changing paradigms. Ac
cording to Fritz Prinz, Director of the EDRC, the 
process between a wireframe sketch of a product 
and a full, three-dimensional image usually involves
a change in the representation scheme of the 
wireframe. "In Noodles, the underlying representa
tion is the same," says Prinz. Instead of having to 
translate the sketch into another program, a designer 
can use the original sketch to create a three-dimensional image. The three-dimensional image can then 
be used to create a model of the product and can 
even aid in the actual manufacture of the product.
The research that the EDRC does is divided into 
three laboratories which represent areas of product 
and process design: the Design for Maunufacturing 
Laboratory, the Synthesis Laboratory, and the 
Design Systems Laboratory. Within and between the 
laboratories, several disciplines are combined to 
develop a common ground in the product design 
process. Using disciplines as varied as architecture, 
computer science, and chemical engineering, the 
EDRC is working to bridge the gap between a 
designer's vision and the actual manufacture of the 
product.
by Alison Green 
Tartan Assistant Magazine Editor
courtesy EDRC
d.b taubf r.a2g g C.mr nmsCiNb 2hr sagrCNisCbu irmgo h Nhnmu nNaCaCynmgo 
tbC.au Rbmgo NbrbhNs.bu Ry C.b ,pcv d.b rhtb nNasbrr irbu Ca thFb C.mr 
taubf saifu hmu mg C.b thgiDhsCiNb aD C.b hsCihf nNauisCv
\kr-neg'-e\ 3

---------------------------------------------------

SUPA Fights the Drug War with High Technology
The Decision 
Systems Research 
Institute, part of 
SUPA, is bringing 
computer technology 
to public policy and 
management research. 
Right now it is developing a computer geographic 
information system that will help support street 
level drug enforcement. The project, funded by the 
National Institute of Justice, is called the Pittsburgh 
Drug Market Analysis Program (PDMAP). .
The research at CMU is a part of a nationwide 
effort to determine effective enforcement strategies. 
The system will be tested in five cities like Pitts
burgh that have growing and seemingly irreversible 
drug problems. Pittsburgh has had a two-thirds 
increase in drug arrests in the last eight years.
If the Pittsburgh/Allegheny Geographic Infor
mation System (PAGIS), which the project is work
ing to develop, proves to be successful, it will be 
extended all over the country to cities with all 
ranges of drug problems.
Police use three techniques to try to enforce the 
law in drug-related scenes such as open markets, 
bars, crack houses, and shooting galleries. One of the 
techniques is undercover work done by detectives 
who eventually simulate a buy and arrest the dealer. 
In another technique, the police survey the dealers 
and buyers; if a transaction is made, the dealers and 
buyers are arrested. Finally, in the last technique, 
impact squads show up at random and interrupt the 
market. The threat of a potential police presence 
hinders the openness and frequency of the deals.
All of these enforcement methods require a 
great deal of information before any action can take 
place. The police have to know where and when the 
dealings are happening.
At the moment, this information is kept in three 
different computers. One computer keeps track of all 
drug-related arrests. This includes crimes commonly 
induced by drugs. Another keeps track of call for 
service (911) data that pertains to drugs. And a third 
has data on overdoses from Mercy Medical Center. 
All of the information must be gathered together by 
the police.
Police then look for patterns in this information 
that will guide them in how to act. This is a slow and 
sometimes ineffective process. For example, it failed 
last summer when a dealer introduced a form of 
heroin into the market that was 5 percent stronger 
than the usual kind. Users consumed the heroin in 
the same volume as before and overdosed. If the 
location pattern of overdoses had been discovered 
and information about sales had been found sooner, 
the dealers could have been apprehended and many 
deaths would have been prevented.
PAGIS is designed to connect all the information 
together and plot it on grid maps of partitions of the 
city. It follows the idea of hanging a map on a wall 
and putting pins in any spot where there was a 
drug-related occurrence  only it's more modern
ized. The computer system, when completed, will be 
able to provide specifics on any given spot. This 
system will process data more quickly and enable 
the police to act more quickly. Plans for PAGIS 
involve more than just quicker data processing, 
though.
Past experience has shown that eliminating a 
drug culture in one neighborhood will only cause 
one to crop up in another spot; after the police move 
out, the dealers move back in. With PAGIS, re
searchers hope to find out if the drugs are simply 
moving to a new space. They hope to answer 
questions such as "How long can the police stay 
away after a crackdown before the market starts to
recover" and "What means are available to keep a 
market suppressed without 'police occupation'?" 
The answers to these questions will be provided by 
experiments in which the police act in different ways 
in drug-related situations. The outcome of their 
actions will be recorded on PAGIS and the success of 
different techniques will be analyzed.
The development of PAGIS has been broken 
down into different sections. Data must be trans
ferred from the existing computerized systems into 
PAGIS. A link must be created between the two so 
that the data can flow into PAGIS. Information 
systems components must be analyzed to allow 
storage, retrieval, processing, and display of data in 
PAGIS. One student, Ollie Ollischlaeger, is a full
time research associate who is doing a dissertation 
on developing neural network methods of modeling 
drug displacement.
So far, there have been approximately thirty-six 
students, primarily information systems majors, 
involved in PAGIS under the tutelage of Professor 
William Gore, a co-principal investigator and a 
member of the Decision System Research Institute 
(DSRI). Various student projects are in the works 
concerning the computerized grid map system used 
in PAGIS, as well as information systems unrelated 
to this particular subject.
The computerized map system used in PAGIS is 
also useful for city planning in areas such as com
puter aided dispatch and beat/patrol zone 
districting.
Once devloped, PAGIS will no doubt prove to 
be a useful tool in many areas, as well as a powerful 
weapon in fighting drugs.
by Sarah Hamilton 
Tartan Staffwriter
gma
l)CP
City of 
Pittsburgh
Richard S. Caliguiri, 
Mayor
pbnhNCtbgC aD 
mCy lfhggmgo
GREENHORNE & OMARA, INC.
ENGINEERS ARCHITECTS PLANNERS SCIENTISTS 
SURVEYORS PHOTOGRAMMETRISTS 
ONE TRIANGLE DRIVE . EXPORT. PA. 
HEADQUARTERS: GREENBELT. MD.
Based on aerial photography, geodetic control, and analytical 
aerotriangulation by:
Aerial Data Reduction Associates, Pennsauken, NJ assisted by 
Geo/Hydro. Inc . Rockville. MD 
Hartmann Associates. Pittsburgh. PA 
Keystone Aerial Surveys. Philadelphia. PA
SUPA is developing an information system that will connect drug information together and plot it on grid maps of partitions of the city.
courtesy SUPA
4 \kar-neg'-e\

---------------------------------------------------

Health Risks of Appliances Shock Researchers
Electromagnetic 
fields have been a 
source of concern for 
decades now, but only 
in recent years has the 
concern culminated in 
widespread research. The frequency of electricity 
used in North America, 60 Hz (hertz), is suspected 
of being a health risk in the form of high-voltage 
transmission lines and common household appli
ances. While power lines used to be the major focus 
in studies on electromagnetic fields, concern is 
growing over the possible health risk connected to 
common household appliances.
Dr. Granger Morgan, head of the Engineering 
and Public Policy department, and Indira Nair, 
associate head of EPP, have been heading research 
teams assessing what is currently known about 
electromagnetic fields and getting to the heart of the 
problem. Research on the effects of electromagnetic 
fields is still inconclusive, leaving the scientific 
community and the public at a loss for a solution.
Morgan and Nair's work has been supported by 
such varied benefactors as the U.S. Department of 
Energy, the Florida Department of Environmental 
Resources, the Alcoa Foundation and the Sloan 
Foundation, and is currently being funded by the 
National Science Foundation and the Electric Power 
Research Institute (EPRI).
Electromagnetic fields are actually a combina
tion of two different kinds of fields: electric fields, 
generated by the intensity of an electric charge, and 
magnetic fields, generated by the motion of the 
charge. Electromagnetic fields are found everywhere 
electricity exists, whether it's generated by electric 
appliances or by the small amount of electricity that 
all animals naturally generate.
The problem with 60 Hz electromagnetic fields 
is that more and more studies show that the effects 
of 60 Hz fields on mammals  and more specifi
cally, their cells  are not as insignificant as was 
once believed. Morgan describes the climate sur
rounding the debate over these effects as "a continu
ously growing level of interest and concern" over 
the past five years. Most of the current work on 
electromagnetic fields, according to Nair and 
Morgan, can be divided into three major groups: 
experiments at the cellular level, whole animal 
studies, and epidemiological studies.
Experiments at the cellular level, according to 
Nair, suggest that electromagnetic fields affect the 
cell membrane. Cellular effects, however, can be 
difficult to connect to the overall health of an entire 
animal or human being. "It's a big jump from the 
cell [standpoint] to the health standpoint," she says.
While whole animal studies might alleviate this 
inadequacy, these experiments are prone to criticism 
on the subjectivity and possible experimenter bias 
that plagued the first generations of whole animal 
experiments. According to Biological Effects of Power 
Frequency Electric and Magnetic Fields, a background 
paper prepared by Nair, Morgan, and Keith Florig 
for the Congressional Office of Technology Assess
ment, recent studies have been more carefully
executed.
These studies have been instrumental in observlng the effects of electromagnetic fields on pineal 
melatonin, a hormone secreted by a tiny gland at the 
base of the skull. This hormone regulates circadian
Approximateof Me ai^o^e electric.
svjrfvJJL of Me ^reLu pn/vceJ. by s&v&ra/ Cof*r*<rr\ iirurcfs
(,0
Wart Bla^kct
Ccmry^rv^ Visfr'ibulH nNewsEdtion
Aj>pU*\c& Liftackjrw*.
Electric 
filido*\ l.o 
3ovUj
(wfa)o.i  
.01 . 
.001 -
courtesy Frederick H. Carlson
lhNC aD C.b 2aNF 3aNohg hgu GhmN .hIb uagb mr Ca aNohgmb mgDaNthCmag ag bfbsCNathogbCms Dmbfurv
rhythm; as Nair put it, pineal melatonin "sets the 
clock" in the body and regulates, among other timebased cycles, our internal 24-hour cycle. The study 
of pineal melatonin is important because we know 
more about it than we know about the way cell 
membranes function. However, there is still no 
conclusive data on the effects of these changes in 
circadian rhythm on the general health of the human 
body.
Epidemiological studies have mainly focused on 
the possible correlation between electromagnetic 
fields and cancer, more specifically, childhood 
leukemia. Two studies which suggest a correlation 
between electromagnetic fields and childhood 
leukemia  one conducted by Nancy Wertheimer 
and Ed Leeper, the other conducted by David Savitz 
and a team of his colleagues  have been the subject 
of a great deal of debate. According to Electric and 
Magnetic Fields from 60 Hertz Electric Power, a bro
chure written by Morgan to update the general 
public on research findings regarding electromag
netic fields, the studies "... report an increase in the 
incidence of childhood leukemia in homes close to 
heavy duty distribution lines." While it doesn't 
confirm a connection between electromagnetic fields 
and cancer, the data collected from these experi
ments is sound enough to warrant some attention.
Although only a few undergraduates have been 
a part of Morgan and Nair's research on this topic, 
interested undergrads should feel free to talk to 
them about getting involved. "I'd definitely encour
age it," says Morgan.
by Alison Green 
Tartan Assistant Magazine Editor
The problem with 60 Hz electro
magnetic fields is that more and 
more studies show that the effects 
of 60 Hz fields on mammals  and 
more specifically, their cells  are 
not as insignificant as was once 
believed.
\kar-neg'-e\5

---------------------------------------------------

Fine Arts and Computer Science Harmonize at SCI
On the first floor 
)f CFA, down the left 
zorridor, over a large 
wooden door, in 
purple neon are the 
words "Studio for 
L.reanve inquiry." me Studio for Creative Inquiry 
(SCI) is a research center where the arts come 
together with computer research. Currently, the SCI 
has three projects in the works.
The Piano Tutor Project is a Macintosh-based 
system for teaching people how to play the piano. 
The Piano Tutor helps beginners to practice correctly 
and more effectively in between their lessons with a 
regular teacher. As the lesson is being played, the 
computer will assist the student by pointing out 
what he or she is doing wrong technically, such as 
uneven rhythms, missed beats, or missed notes. It 
has a built-in metronome to help students keep the 
beat. The research team working on the Piano Tutor 
is lead by music professors Marta Sanchez and 
Annabelle Joseph. Also on the team are computer 
scientists Roger Dannenberg and Robert Joseph; Ron 
Saul, a computer scientist specializing in program
ming systems; and Peter Capell, an instructional 
designer.
The Art Histories Project is gaining momentum 
through the efforts of the Associate Dean of CFA, 
Lynn Holden. The project will be a campus-wide 
study of the current and possible future approaches 
to how art histories and the humanities are taught in 
CFA. The goal of the project is to come up with a 
multimedia teaching and information access system 
that when called up by a student will describe at 
length major world cultures.
The Interactive Drama Workshop took place in 
May 1990. Headed by Margaret Kelso, a playwriting 
instructor in CFA, and Joe Bates of the School of 
Computer Science, the workshop had one or more 
participants become part of a fantasy world created 
by actors, a director, and an author. The participant 
was to behave naturally, following his or her own 
impulses, while the actors and director tried to keep 
the scene following the author's intent. The work
shop was used to test a model of interactive drama 
that was part of the Oz Project in SCS.
To learn more about the Studio for Creative 
Inquiry and new projects, or the progression of 
current projects, stop by the office at CFA 111 to pick 
up a bimonthly newsletter. Contact Brian Rogers, 
College of Fine Arts 111, x3454.
by Laura Adams 
Tartan Stafjwriter
Tad Dockstader/Tartan Photo Editor
d.b lmhga diCaNw h nNaoNht ubrmogbu Ca .bfn nbanfb fbht .a2 Ca nfhy C.b nmhgaw mr agb b\htnfb aD C.b 
Fmgu aD NbrbhNs. J .hr Rbbg uamgov d.b nNaoNht .bfnr mtnNaIb C.b rCiubgCr nbNDaNthgsb Ry Fbbnmgo 
Cmtb hgu s.bsFmgo DaN tmrrbu gaCbrw htago aC.bN C.mgorv
-SUPA Centers
bgCbN DaN ,sagatms pbIbfantbgC /J7lW ,p"
focuses on applied research on national and regional 
economic development policies. Areas of interest 
include technology development and commercializa
tion, regional transition, business organization, and 
education and training. Alfred Blumstein, SUPA, 
Hamburg Hall 1104A, X2159; Robert Gleeson, SUPA, 
Hamburg Hall 2107C, X6072
bgCbN DaN liRfms Tmghgsmhf 3hghobtbgC /lT3"
focuses on empirical and theoretical analyses of 
public financial management issues, including tax 
policy and allocation of responsibilities in federal 
systems. Robert P. Strauss, SUPA, Hamburg Hall 
2116B, X2170
bgCbN DaN hRaN JCiumbr /J" studies changing la
bor/management relations, including factors influ
encing their relationships, trends and direction, and 
policy ramifications. Ben Fischer, SUPA, Hamburg 
Hall 1119D, x2177; Kevin O'Neill, SUPA, Hamburg 
Hall 1119B, x2177
ahfmCmag Ca tnNaIb 3hghobtbgC mg JChCb hgu 
ashf AaIbNgtbgC /3JA" studies the ways state 
and local governments improve executive manage
ment and productivity, organize their staffs, and work 
with each other and the private and nonprofit sec
tors. Management guides on these issues are pre
pared for public administrators. Donald Stone, SUPA, 
Hamburg Hall 1118D, X2179 and X8521
pbsmrmag JyrCbtr cbrbhNs. grCmCiCb /pJc" re
searches the interface between organizational deci
sion making and computer information systems, with 
special attention to the public sector. George Duncan, 
SUPA, Hamburg Hall 2102D, X2172
7NRhg JyrCbtr mgrCmCiCb /7J" addresses policy-related questions, focusing on the planning, operation, 
and management of various urban service systems, 
with research emphasis on the criminal justice sys
tem. Alfred Blumstein, SUPA, Hamburg Hall 1104, 
x2175; Jacqueline Cohen, SUPA, Hamburg Hall 
2101C,X3629
5 \kr-neg'-\

---------------------------------------------------

Elderly Patients Get Personalized Care
Do you have a 
grandfather who's 
having problems 
remembering what 
the doctor tells him? 
Does your grand
mother ask you to 
interpret a pamphlet describing her physician's 
precautions, and even together you can't figure out 
what applies to her and what doesn't?
It's a problem that's been plaguing the elderly 
for years  getting personalized health care after 
leaving the doctor's office. Carnegie Mellon re
searchers are working with Shadyside Hospital to 
develop a system called the Customized Health 
Information Project (CHIP) which just may help 
some people live a little better and a little longer.
CHIP, a software database and interpreter 
program for geriatric patients in need of medical 
advice beyond the physician's front door, will allow 
doctors to generate personalized instructions for 
patients while they wait. Such instructions will 
replace the pamphlets doctors now distribute which 
generalize symptoms and solutions for a wide 
variety of cases. Uncertainties of medical instruc
tions can lead to health risks or unnecessary tele
phone calls and visits to clinics. A doctor with CHIP 
will be able to give his or her patients instructions 
that, in comprehensible language, address specifics 
about medication, diet, rest and exercise, as well as 
precautions about potential hazards in their house
holds, such as stairways or bathtubs.
"The elderly should have personalized, printed 
instructions on hand to supplement the face-to-face 
advice they get at the doctor's office, clinic, or 
hospital, particularly because memory can become 
increasingly shaky with age," said project director 
David H. Fowler, Carnegie Mellon professor of 
history.
The software would allow physicians to print 
their instructions in differing type sizes, compose 
them at differing levels of comprehension, and 
illustrate the instructions with diagrams for those 
patients or families who have difficulty in reading or 
understanding medical materials. The doctors 
would also be able to edit the instructions on-the-fly, 
allowing greater flexibility than a boxful of flyers 
from Wilford Brimley describing why everybody 
should eat more fiber.
The program, being designed for use on Macin
tosh SE/30s, may also be implemented with a touch
screen, a small membrane overlay on the monitor 
that detects objects in contact with it and tells the 
computer exactly where the object contacted the 
screen. But, like everything else with the current 
CHIP prototype, the touch-screen will only be used 
if it encourages physicians to use it. "We have to 
find out whether it's a distinct advantage or if its 
more trouble than its worth," said Fowler.
The first stage of the program is the develop
ment of the CHIP software, which is taking place at 
CMU with people from the English, Computer 
Science, and Robotics Departments, including 
graduate and undergraduate students. Doctors from 
Shadyside Hospital are supplying opinions on how 
CHIP should interact with a physician and are also 
supplying the medical facts in CHIP'S database.
The development of CHIP has been made 
possible by a $370,000 grant from the W.K. Kellogg
Foundation. The grant is largely being used to fund 
the salaries of the faculty and graduate students for 
the time spent on the project. CHIP is a two-year 
project with one year to go.
CHIP'S experimenters are working on two 
different ways for health professionals to generate 
the informative letters. Physicians at Shadyside 
Hospital's Family Health Center will enter choices of 
variables on a checksheet. (Variables include 
whether patients had a fall, fractured a bone, etc.) 
Then, either the physicians or other members of the 
staff will enter those choices on a central computer, 
using the keyboard, mouse, or touch-screen. The 
computer will process those choices and create a 
letter from them, which will be printed out and 
given to the patient before he or she leaves.
CHIP, the first project of its kind, still must 
undergo an evaluation before widespread imple
mentation. This evaluation will focus mainly on two 
aspects: its ability to produce software that will be 
both desirable and easy to use in the clinical setting 
and its ability to produce documents that make a 
recil difference in the understanding of health 
problems and compliance with instructions by 
patients and families.
"We know of no such system, for addressing the 
needs of the individual, in use or in development," 
said Fowler. "The keys to success, we believe, are 
the joining of perspectives and skills of medicine, the 
humanities, and computer science."
Fowler noted that CHIP may be implemented 
for patients other than the elderly. "CHIP is a 
universal tool," he said. 'Therefore, you can use it to 
deal with any problem of any kind."
For further information on CHIP, write to CHIP, 
Box 157, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 
15213. If you're interested in doing volunteer work 
with this program, contact Fowler at x2887.
The elderly should have person
alized, printed instructions on 
hand to supplement the face-toface advice they get at the 
doctors office, clinic, or hospital, 
particularly because memory can 
become increasingly shaky with 
age, said project director David 
H. Fowler, Carnegie Mellon pro
fessor of history.
by Dan DeGrandpre 
Tartan Calendar Editor
Patients name: William Burky
( Print Letter ] (Preuieu) ] ( Neo Patient )
1. Frequency of recent fall(s):3. Patients Mobility
Oonce
Omonthly
Oweekly
Odaily
2. Injury or pain from fa!l(s):
Onone
Osoft-tissue
Ouertebral fracture
Ohip fracture
Oother fracture
CHIP
I Customized Health Information Project
Carnegie Mellon University 
and bhadyside Hospital
Dan DeGrandpre / The Tartan
d.mr mr hg b\htnfb aD C.b xl mgCbNDhsbw 2mC. *Nhuma RiCCagV rbfbsCaNr DaN C.b 
n.yrmsmhgv d.b uasCaN 2aifu thFb agb rbfbsCmag nbN Ra\w hgu C.b satniCbN 
2aifu C.bg DaNt h fbCCbN DaN C.b nhCmbgC ag C.b Rhrmr aD C.arb rbfbsCmagrv
PiTl
\kar-neg'-\ 7

---------------------------------------------------

CMRI Sensors Are Saving Lives
"I think I can, I 
think I can, I think I 
can../' The little train 
that could didn't 
because it derailed 
and killed everyone 
onboard. The derail
ment occurred when a bearing located in the wheel 
of the train became too hot and melted off. The 
present system of monitoring didn't detect anything 
wrong because a bearing can fail in a time span of 
three minutes, but the monitors, which are very 
expensive, are placed twenty to thirty miles apart. 
The bearings should be constantly monitored. The 
failures cost the railroad companies millions in 
damage and risk human lives.
Director of Carnegie Mellon Research Institute 
(CMRI) William Kaufman and a full-time staff of 
professionals at the institute have invented the 
Smart Bolt to solve the problem. The Smart Bolt is a 
6 by 1 inch bolt attached to the bearing, with some 
important additions, like a temperature gauge, a 
transistor radio, and a battery. The bolt detects 
when the bearing gets too hot, a lot like a tempera
ture gauge in a car. When a bearing reaches a 
certain temperature, wax inside the temperature 
gauge melts. The expanding wax pushes out the 
antenna and sends out a radio signal. The conductor 
is alerted by an alarm that the bearing is about to 
fail.
Dr. Kaufman and Alberto Guzman, director of 
CMRI's Advanced Devices and Materials Group, 
became involved with the bearing problem in 1986. 
They came up with the Smart Bolt idea and filed for 
a patent by the spring of 1987. The research to 
develop a Smart Bolt prototype was funded com
pletely outside of the university, by Burlington 
Northern and General Railway Signal. Since the bolt 
uses technology that already exists, like small radio
transistors that can be mass-produced cheaply, Dr. 
Kaufman projected a 25-50 dollar price range for 
each bolt. In the long run, according to Mr. 
Kaufman, the Smart Bolt would prove to be costeffective.
The next stage in the project is the fabrication of 
about a hundred "test" bolts, which would be used 
in experiments to identify problems and improve 
the model. Hopefully General Railway Signal will 
use the Research Institute's technical support for 
further research, although they are contractually
Director of Carnegie Mellon Re
search Institute (CMRI) William 
Kaufman and a full-time staff of 
professionals at the institute have 
invented the Smart Bolt to prevent 
train derailments in the future.
entided to choose otner sources of support. Even if 
GRS chose outside support, Carnegie Mellon would 
still receive a patent royalty on the sale of the bolt, 
although the university would not be directly 
involved in the research. If General Railway doesn't 
commercialize the bolt, Carnegie Mellon can offer its 
technology to other companies.
Although students weren't directly involved 
in this research, if you would like to work on this 
project, the institute offers some work-study posi
tions.
by Heather Walker 
Tarta?i Staffwriter
Hunt Institute for -------------
Botanical Documentation
The fifth floor of the library is the Hunt 
Institute for Botanical Documentation, and the 
library is breathtaking  if not because of the 
decor, then because it houses around 72,000 
books, most on the subject of botany. Although 
the original library contained books on horticul
ture and botany, the collection of botanical books 
grew much quickly than the other two.
The Institute for Botanical Documentation 
may seem like just another floor of the library, but 
Charlotte Tancin, a librarian for the Institute, 
describes its reputation in other parts of the U.S. 
and abroad as "well-established."
According to Lisa Bodnar, a secretary of the 
Institute, the Institute has four different depart
ments. It has an art division with botanical 
paintings, drawings, and visuals. It has a library 
section, with old and rare botanical books. The 
archives section contains a running record of the 
history of botanists, including pictures of some of 
the scientists and sometimes samples of the works 
of botanists. The Institute also has a bibliographer 
who is in charge of editing and updating BPH, 
Botanico Periodicum Huntainum, a publication 
for which the institute is well known, hr addition 
to this, the bibliographer writes botanical books 
for the Institute. The director of the Institute is 
Robert Kiger, Hunt Library, x2434.
by Jennifer Kerstein 
Tartan Magazine Editor
Carnegie Mellon 
establishes its first 
undergraduate tech
nical writing program
Under the direction 
of Richard Cyert and 
Jim March, Carnegie 
Mellon pioneers 
research into man
agement theory.
Their published work, 
"Behavioral Theory of 
the Firm, continues 
to be a citation 
classic.
Researchers at 
Carnegie Mellons 
Reid Robotics Center 
create robotic ma
chines that clean up 
nuclear waste at 
Three Mile Island.
llutjuil'-'1-
8 \kr-neg'-\
Herbert A. Simon and 
Allen Newell discov
er that symbols can 
be substituted for
numbers in computa
tions, opening up the 
field of artificial 
intelligence.
K.G. Engeld* 
director of tW 
for Human W 
develops the 
Kitchen, nt* 
ing robotic*
economic theory of 
corporate decision
making, emphasizes 
the psychological 
and practical limita
tions of managers,
and wins him the 
Nobel Prize. Modern 
business economics 
and administrative 
research are largely 
based on Simons 
ideas," says the 
Nobel committee.

---------------------------------------------------

-Mellon Institute Centers
Research centers which are listed without a location 
can be found at the Carnegie Mellon Research Insti
tute, 4400 Fifth Avenue.
WuIhgsbu pbImsbr hgu 3hCbNmhfr ANain /Wp'3A"
focuses on research of magnetic materials, semi
conductors, superconductors, and advanced ceram
ics. Device research includes solid state gas sensors 
and othersensors, heat pumps, and magnets. Alberto 
Guzman, X3428 or x3363
d.b WJd3 dbrC 3agmCaNmgo bgCbN /WJd3" focuses 
on the monitoring of laboratories conducting engine 
dynamometer lubricant tests. These test procedures 
are published by ASTM. John Zalar, x3315
Battery dbs.gafaoy bgCbN /)d" conducts re
search on the development of batteries and other 
electrochemical systems/phenomena (corrosion, 
plating, electrowinning, electroanalytical chemistry, 
etc.) and specializes in process improvements/opti
mization. George E. Mayer, x3388
)maCbs.gafaoy bgCbN /)" focuses on translating 
the new capabilities offered by modern molecular 
biology into viable commercial processes for industiy. Ned Minkley, x3188
bgCbN DaN TfiaNbrsbgsb cbrbhNs. mg )matbumshf 
Jsmbgsbr /Tc)J" develops and uses fluorescence 
technology in biomedical research. Ruorescent mol
ecules, imaging methods, and flow cytometry are 
used to investigate fundamental cellular questions. 
D. Lansing Taylor, x3456
bgCbN DaN 3bChfr lNauisCmag /3l" engages in 
collaborative research and technical development 
aimed at enhancing the competitive posture of the 
American metals production Industries. Joseph E. 
Goodwill, x3435
bgCbN DaN JiNDhsbr hgu ahCmgor /J'"w also known 
as the Steel Structures Painting Council, conducts 
research, develops standards, and disseminates infor
mation on surface preparation, application techniques, 
coatings, and related technology for protecting steel 
and related materials. Bernard Appleman, Mellon Insti
tute, X3326
atniCbN ,gomgbbNmgo bgCbN /," offers research 
capabilities in the areas of industrial process control, 
software engineering, applied expert systems, signal/ 
image processing, and electronics. CEC also offers 
extensive expertise in hardware and software. Ronald 
Krutz, CEC, X3360
xmo. Jnbbu ANaigu dNhgrnaNChCmag bgCbN /xJAd"
focuses on research, development, and technical and 
educational services of high speed ground transporta
tion systems, with particular emphasis on magnetic 
levitation (MAGLEV) systems of the future. Richard A. 
Uher, X2960
xmo. dbs.gafaoy bgCbN /xd" conducts research in 
ion implantation, semiconductor devices, and instru
mentation development. Alberto Guzman, x3363
3hCbNmhfr .hNhsCbNmhCmag bgCbN /3" provides 
analytical support to Mellon Institute programs. MCC 
supplies additional analytical and consulting services 
on materials problems to industrial clients and con
ducts specific goal-oriented technical investigations 
accordingto industry specifications. Howard Wagenbiast, 
x2600 or x3469
G3c ThsmfmCy DaN )matbumshf JCiumbr /G3cT)J" en
gages in research on the theory, methodology, and 
application of high-field nuclear magnetic resonance to 
structural problems in chemistry and biochemistry. 
Aksel A. Bothner-By, x3161
lmCCrRiNo. G3c bgCbN DaN )matbumshf cbrbhNs. 
/G3c)c" is a research facility using animal and 
cellular models for investigations into NMR imaging 
and in vivo spectroscopy to study a variety of bio
medical problems Includingenergy metabolism, blood 
and myoglobin in vivo, and organ viability and rejec
tion in transplantation. In addition, the center's staff 
is working on the development of new and better 
techniques for imaging and in vivo spectroscopy, as 
well as special applications such as snapshot imag
ing and measurement of flow and perfusion. Chien 
Ho, X6336
lmCCrRiNo. JinbNsatniCmgo bgCbN /lJ" provides 
state-of-the-art advanced computing resources to 
national scientists and engineering research commu
nities; it educates researchers in the use of 
supercomputers, introduces industrial firms to the 
benefits of supercomputing, and helps to advance 
computational science and techniques. Michael 
Levine, Physics Department, Wean Hall 7424, x2761 
orx4960; Ralph Roskies, PSC, x4960; BeverlyClayton, 
PSC,X4960
chmf JyrCbtr bgCbN /cJ" provides research, de
velopment, and technical and educational services in 
the rail transportation industry, especially in high 
speed systems. Richard Uher, x2960
cbrbhNs. bgCbN ag C.b 3hCbNmhfr aD C.b WNCmrC hgu 
agrbNIhCaN /3W'" conducts research in the 
preservation methods and materials used for the 
care of museum collections  particularly paintings,
Chemical Engineer 
Gregory McRae, 
using the Cray Y-MP 
at the Pittsburgh 
Supercomputing 
Center, does re
search on reducing 
pollution levels in the 
Los Angeles basin. 
His findings  that
hydrocarbonation 
and nitrogen oxide 
levels must be 
controlled to reduce 
pollution  are 
incorporated in the 
Los Angeles Clean 
Air Act and new 
federal legislation.
taep the elderly and 
frail out of institu
tions and functioning 
ln their own environ
ment.
Carnegie Mellon 
conducts pioneering 
research into the 
health risks involved 
with 60 hertz electric 
and magnetic fields
(60 Hz fields are 
found in big and 
small power lines, 
electric appliances 
and electric wiring).\kr-neg'-\ 9

---------------------------------------------------

CMU Helps Speed Electronic Communications
The amount of 
data currently being 
transferred over the 
national computer 
network, Internet, is 
increasing by an 
astounding 25 percent 
every month. At that 
rate, it will soon reach its limits. Internet can handle 
the 3.5 billion data packets of 100 to 200 typed 
characters currently sent over the network every 
month, but the need for a faster network is clearly 
visible.
The Cooperation for National Research Initia
tives, headed by Robert Kahn, recently honored 
Carnegie Mellon by selecting CMU as one of five 
sites throughout the country where research will be 
done on gigabit networks, networks which will 
operate at a rate of billions of bits per second. The 
gigabit network will be approximately 1000 times 
faster than the current national network. Kahn's 
non-profit organization was given $15.8 million by 
the National Science Foundation for the project.
According to Eric Cooper, an assistant professor 
in the Computer Science department, the testbed 
sites are to be eventually connected into a national 
gigabit network which will replace Internet. Con
necting the separate testbeds and new sites will be 
quite easy as they will use fiber optic cables which 
telephone companies now lay down any time they 
need a new line.
A national gigabit network would give scien
tists, scholars, business executives and many others 
instant access to huge computerized libraries. The 
network would also allow digital video telephones 
with Targe screens, which could be used for sales 
meetings, lessening the need for travel. Other
possible users of the network would be 
doctors as they could have instant 
access to nearly all of the current 
medical information when treating 
patients.
The gigabit network at CMU is 
scheduled to be completed in late 1992 
or early 1993. At that time, two main 
applications will be run through the 
system, one by GSIA, which will deal 
with traveling salespeople, and another 
by the Chemical Engineering depart
ment, which will be a simulation of a 
chemical plant. The Chemical Engineer
ing simulation will allow the students 
to see the result of changing certain 
parameters in the chemical process such 
as pressure and temperature without 
the expense of actually changing the 
factors in a chemical plant.
Professor of Computer Science 
H.T.Kung will be in charge of the 
gigabit network research at CMU, 
which has sites on campus and at the 
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center.
The gigabit testbed will be based on 
a slower network, the original NEC
TAR, previously developed at Carn
egie Mellon. The development of 
NECTAR by Kung, along with Kung's 
other work, is the main reason CMU 
was chosen as a testbed for this net
work.
courtesy University Relations
lNaDbrraN xvdv LigoHr nhrC NbrbhNs. mr agb aD C.b thmg 
Nbhragr 37 2hr s.arbg hr agb aD C.b DmIb CbrCRbu 
rmCbr mg C.b ghCmag DaN C.b gb2 omohRmC gbC2aNFv
by Dan Ferrell 
Tartan Staffwriter
-School of Computer Science
n* * %
isq\.
bgCbN DaN xithg JbNImsbr caRaCmsr /xJc" is de
voted to the use of robotic and artificial intelligence 
technology to create human service systems, robots 
with the Intelligence to work hand-in-hand with human 
beings, and the technical sophistication to emulate 
the human touch. K. G. Engelhardt, 4616 Henry 
Street, Pgh., PA 15213, X7691
bgCbN DaN gCboNhCbu 3hgiDhsCiNmgo pbsmrmag Jyr;
Cbtr /3pJ" was created to conduct research on 
intelligent decision systems to support engineering 
and manufacturing problem solving. Mark Fox, Com
puter Science Dept., Doherty Hall 3319, X3832; 
Jeanne Bennardo, Robotics Institute, Doherty Hall 
3326, X7551
bgCbN DaN 3hs.mgb dNhgrfhCmag /3d" focuses on 
the development of multl-lingual knowledge-based 
machine translation (KBMT), speech-to-speech 
translation, very large knowledge bases (VLKBs), 
intelligent computer-assisted language instruction 
systems, and related software tools. Jaime Carbonell, 
Elliot Dunlap Smith Hall 109, x6591
Tmbfu caRaCmsr bgCbN develops and promulgates robot 
technology to perform in the unstructured and com
plex world on behalf of man. William L. Whittaker, 
Robotics Institute, EDSH 204, x6559
gDaNthCmag dbs.gafaoy bgCbN /d" focuses on the 
development of the Andrew system and associated 
system programs. Alfred Spector, University Comput
ing Center 200, x6700
caRaCmsr grCmCiCb /cf" conducts research in areas of 
flexible manufacturing, intelligent systems, vision, 
automated inspection systems, smart sensors, human-machine interaction, health and human ser
vices, mobile robots, and robots for hazardous envi
ronments. Raj Reddy, Wean Hall 4630, X3818
Emrmag hgu WiCagatair JyrCbtr bgCbN performs 
basic research in vision and force-guided manipula
tion, model-based vision systems for manipulation 
and navigation, "real-time" perception system 
implementation, and autonomous mobile robots. 
Takeo Kanade, SCS, Wean Hall 1327, X3016
JaDC2hNb ,gomgbbNmgo grCmCiCb /J," focuses on 
rapidly improving the quality of operational 
software in mission-critical computer resources; 
accelerating the reduction to practice of modem 
software engineering techniques and methods; 
promulgating the use of modem techniques and 
methods throughout the mission-critical systems 
community; and establishing standards of 
excellence for software engineering practice. 
Larry Druffel, SEI, x7700
gDaNthCmaghf GbC2aNF grCmCiCb /G" focuses 
on the technological and business aspects of 
information networks. Examples include distrib
uted computing, high speed switching, and the 
strategic business use of information technol
ogy. Alex Hills, SEI 1205, x7195
10 \kr-neg-e\

---------------------------------------------------

Simulab Defogs Difficult Economic Theories
Traditionally, 
education in econom
ics has been extremely 
and necessarily 
theoretical. Although 
crude simulations of 
economic situations 
have been used with success, most economic theo
ries were thought too complex to demonstrate with 
any kind of precision.
But John O'Brien and Sanjay Srivastava, both 
professors here at CMU, have changed that tradition 
with Simulab, a computerized stock market simula
tion used for both economic research and classroom 
teaching.
Simulab mimics an actual stock market by 
having students trade directly with each other in an 
instructor-controlled environment. Each trader 
begins with a certain amount of cash and stock, and 
the object of the classroom trading period is to earn 
as much money as possible through strategic 
trading.
The strategy of trades is determined by private 
information given to each individual-trader about 
probable stock market conditions in the next trading 
period. For example, each stock during a trading 
period may be in one of three market states: low (x), 
medium (y), and high (z) rates of dividend payment. 
A trader's private information may be that stock 1 
will not be in the x state for period 1. A trader may 
then make more informed trading decisions based 
on this information.
The program was first developed primarily as a 
research tool. Besides providing the environment for 
a market simulation, the program also monitors and 
stores information about transactions made by the 
traders during the trading period. This actual 
market-generated data is then used by market 
researchers to study such things as how the price of 
stocks can actually convey information about stock 
market conditions from trader to trader.
Simulab eventually grew from being used 
exclusively for research to being used as an educa
tional tool. "Student traders seemed to be getting a 
lot out of the sessions  from that came the idea of 
using it for teaching," says O'Brien.
The objectives of the Simulab course are three
fold. First, the students get experience in trading. 
Secondly, they learn the theories of economics.
Third, data produced from the students' trading 
sessions is analyzed in the class, providing an 
opportunity for students to learn about empirical 
market analysis. "They trade first, then learn 
theory  the theory then comes alive to them as 
well as flaws...in its ability to predict what's going 
on," says O'Brien. 'The students get rich insight."
An important facet of Simulab is the capability 
of the teacher to modify each lab experience to fit the 
lessons learned in class. By controlling the environ
ment in which the students trade, the instructor can 
emphasize certain points to correspond more closely 
to classroom lessons. According to O'Brien, "Stu
dents are competing with each other. We just control 
the environment." But through controlling the 
environment, teachers can more accurately follow 
their lessons, reinforcing important concepts.
Simulab has proved extremely effective in the 
classroom setting. The hands-on experience brings
courtesy University Relations
AJW rCiubgCr irb JmtifhRw h satniCbNmbu rCasF thNFbC rmtifhCmagw Ca fbhNg hRaiC C.b thNFbCw 2.mfb 
AJW nNaDbrraNr irb mC DaN bsagatms NbrbhNs.v
to life concepts usually confined to books and 
blackboards. Students also receive cash for their 
work; the more money they make in class, the more 
spending money they receive. Motivation to do well 
in the market is also provided in that each student's 
grade for the class is determined largely by his or 
her success in the market.
The researchers and teachers involved with the 
course are also impressed by the program's useful
ness. According to O'Brien, the classroom market 
simulation provides an excellent source of market 
data. "Data generated in this lab is surprisingly 
similar to real market data."
Consequently, apathy in the class is very low, 
partially due to the incentives. "I've never seen such 
concentration in a class," says O'Brien. "Trading 
experience as well as enthusiasm grows throughout 
the course."
Simulab has changed the idea that economics is 
not an experimental science. It provides students 
with an exciting, unique, and extremely challenging 
hands-on experience in actual market trading, as 
well as background in understanding market theory 
and analyzing market data. "We want them to gain 
insight into market phenomenon, and they do," says 
O'Brien. "In fact, some of our students have become 
so interested in the market that they've gone on to 
become traders themselves."
According to O'Brien, plans are to keep Simulab 
exclusively at CMU. "For now, it's unique to GSIA."
by Megan Dietz 
Tartan Staffwriter
They trade first, then learn 
theory  the theory then comes 
alive to them as well as flaws...in 
its ability to predict whats going 
on, says GSIA Professor John 
OBrien. The students get rich 
insight.
\kar-neg-e\ \ \

---------------------------------------------------

Breathing Fresh Air into Architecture
Working at a 
*0 typical office job
usually means sitting 
in poorly lit cubicles, 
enjoying smoke from 
a nearby co-worker, 
tolerating a demand
ing supervisor, and thinking of the commute home 
through the cold. The image is enough to scare 
many students into graduate school.
Fortunately, two Carnegie Mellon architecture 
professors, Vivian Loftness and Volker Hartkopf, are 
doing something to change that image. Although 
Loftness and Hartkopf cannot change the commute 
or make supervisors more pleasant, they have 
greatly improved the environment in which people 
work.
Loftness and Hartkopf were members of a 
design team that designed the Personal Environ
ments product line for Johnson Controls. Personal 
Environments products are modified conventional 
office workstation furniture and are designed to 
provide a greater degree of personal control over air 
flow, temperature, noise, and lighting.
Office lighting is accomplished through over
head fluorescent lighting and incandescent task 
lights, all connected to dimming switches. Normally 
only incandescent lights use dimmers. A worker has 
no fixed lighting. Therefore, it can be custom tai
lored to a variety of situations so that glare is 
eliminated.
Air flow is controlled by a fan unit that a sits 
underneath the desk top.,This unit contains the fan, 
filters, and a mixing box which combines fresh air 
and recycled air. Diffusers, which sit on top of the 
desk, then distribute the air. The direction of the air 
is controlled by adjusting these diffusers. Fresh air is 
taken directly from the building's normal central air 
unit by ducts into the mixing box. The user sets the 
ratio of fresh air and recycled air to make the air 
warmer or cooler. Before die air is distributed it 
passes through two types of filters: normal particle 
filters to remove dust and smoke, and carbon filters 
which help remove organic particles such as bacte
ria.
A white noise generator is also contained in the 
fan unit housing. White noise masks speech by 
creating a sound that contains all the frequencies of 
normal speech. Further control over temperature is 
accomplished by an adjustable radiant heat panel, 
which is really an elegant space heater. The controls 
are located in one convenient unit which sits on the 
desk top.
Although the ability to individually control 
light, temperature, and noise are improvements,
"the key value," according to Professor Loftness, "is 
that you have ducted fresh air." In a conventional 
system, air is taken from the outside, mixed with 
return air, filtered, and then run through a duct 
system which distributes the air through ceiling 
vents. Air is then blown down and across, so smoke 
from cigarettes is blown to neighboring workplaces. 
The smoky air is recycled, and very little fresh air 
enters the room. It also means that everyone must be 
satisfied with the same temperature.
The Personal Environments system 
does not replace the central system; 
instead it draws fresh air from the 
system and delivers it to each fan unit so 
that the output level can be individually 
controlled. This system allows the air to 
be filtered not only before it goes 
through the mechanical system, but also 
just before it reaches people. The carbon 
filters are another innovative aspect of 
the system. Instead of protecting ma
chinery, which is what conventional 
filters are meant to do, they protect 
people.
Personal Environments products 
would certainly mean increased costs for 
companies that purchase them, but there 
are advantages that make the investment 
worthwhile. At test sites, workers 
reported greater satisfaction with air 
quality. Cleaner air also means less 
illness, so absentee rates were found to 
drop. In addition, the system conserves 
energy. The system contains infrared 
sensors, so if the individual leaves the 
office for a period of time, set by the 
individual, the system shuts itself off.
The concepts behind Personal 
Environments started with a Canadian 
government research director named 
Peter Mill. When Loftness and Hartkopf 
were invited by his Canadian govern
mental group to study problems in 
work environments, their studies 
resulted in the Functional Diagnostic Unit (FUNDI), 
an adapted workstation that had adjustable lighting, 
temperature, and air controls. It also had sensors 
that monitored how often people adjusted their 
work environment, from which it was discovered 
that people adjusted their environment frequently.
Johnson Controls heard about the FUNDI 
research effort at a Carnegie Mellon presentation on 
problems in the workplace and decided that it was a 
viable product for their company to pursue.
Although Personal Environments may not seem 
like architecture to most people, Loftness explains 
that architecture is not merely the outward appear
ance of a building  architecture also concerns itself 
with the interior design of a building, because the 
interior determines how well people interact with 
the building. Personal Environments, says Loftness, 
is architecture because it attempts to match the 
function of the interior to the needs of individuals 
through its innovative assembly.
Personal Environments is now a product of 
Johnson Controls, which is attempting to market it 
and make further improvements.
As for Loftness and Hartkopf, they are continu
ing to look for ways to improve the design of 
interior elements like ceilings, floors, and storage 
systems. So while they can not make work less 
difficult, they can make it more comfortable.
by Tripp Goldsberry 
Tartan Staffivriter
d.mr mr hg mffirCNhCmag aD C.b nbNraghf bgImNagtbgCr ryrCbtv 
d.b ryrCbt omIbr 2aNFbNr mg anbg aDDmsbr satnfbCb sagCNaf aD 
C.bmN a2g bgImNagtbgChf sagumCmagrv
bgCbN DaN )imfumgo lbNDaNthgsb hgu pmhogar;
Cmsr /)p" focuses on advanced building sys
tems integration for performance and innovation 
in building delivery process through quality as
surance. Special interests include offices, labo
ratories, and housing. Volker Hartkopf, Architec
ture Department, Margaret Morrison 410E, 
x2350; Stephen Lee, Architecture Department, 
Margaret Morrison 410D, x3528
Personal Environments isa trademark of Johnson Controls.
12 \kr-neg-e\

---------------------------------------------------

Design Students Tackle the Problem of Recycling
should be used. This way, the separation plant only 
has to sift through the recyclable waste.
3) People should use the most ambitious multi
category separation system, where the original 
producers of the waste (industries or individuals), 
separate the recyclable materials into specific 
categories. This can be taken straight to a recycling 
plant.
Pittsburgh has decided on the second approach, 
figuring that people will separate their trash into 
two piles because it saves their tax dollars. Economi
cally, the third approach makes the most sense. 
Bally's class was asked to work with the third 
approach, opening up the challenge of persuading 
people to do what was economically efficient versus  
doing the easier thing.
Over the summer, Bally got together a four 
person panel of experts, each with a knowledge of a 
specific area of the recycling problem. The function 
of the panel is twofold; to provide information to 
the students and to be the jury for the final presen
tation of the students' projects. The panel includes 
Karen Gierescher, who works for the recycling 
plant BFI, Maribeth Rizutto from the mayor's office, 
Pete Collopy of CMU Environmental Health and 
Safety, and Frank Wollinski from the Food Gallery.
Before they started the project, classmembers 
were split into six research teams to get information 
on recycling in food stores (collection and separa
tion), CMU offices, CMU campus public areas and 
class rooms, haulers and recyclers, and the city of 
Pittsburgh's streets, parks, public buildings, and 
residences. Copies of the extensive research covering 
special problem areas, clippings, personal inter
views, photo documentation, observations, and 
other information were distributed to the whole 
class. To see the actual recycling process, they took a 
trip to BFI guided by Gierescher.
Brainstorming, problem statements, and project 
selections took a few weeks, and then the students 
were left to create their ideas and models for prod
ucts. They presented their solutions with sketches, 
some explanatory notes, and models of their prod
ucts to their class, the 
faculty, and visitors 
earlier this month.
This was the midway 
mark of the project.
Their presenta
tions were then 
displayed in Margaret 
Morrison. Each 
student's display had 
a 2-D section with 
sketches, simple 
explanations with 
photographs, and a 3- 
D model of their 
imagined product.
The projects were only 
half completed and 
students hoped that 
peers, visitors, and 
staff would provide 
feedback by filling in 
written evaluations.
The projects 
covered diverse areas 
ranging from simplifyD.A. Henderson / Tartan Darkroom Manager 
d.mr mr h taubf aD 3mfbr LNmIar.mhHr Nbsysfmgo nNaebsC 2.bg mC 2hr ag umrnfhy mg 
3hNohNbC 3aNNmragv xmr dNhr. dNhmg hffa2r DaN taNb bDDmsmbgC Nbsysfmgov
While CMU is 
having a hard time 
simply meeting the 
demands of the new 
recycling laws, some 
students are dreaming 
up playgrounds made 
of recycled pipes, plastic and tires, plantpots and 
plant soil made of recycled plastic, chic-looking 
kitchen recycling containers that can be wheeled 
around and used as tea carts, and reusable fast-food 
containers.
Every year, students in Senior Industrial Design 
studio tackle the problem of designing products for 
consumers with special needs or for special pur
poses. This year, students in Associate Professor 
Alex Bally's studio were given the theme of recy
cling.
Bally says he had wanted to do the project for a 
few years, but other projects like designing house
hold items for the blind, appliances for people with 
arthritis, and things for the Children's Hospital took 
priority. Meanwhile, recycling was becoming a 
prominent social issue, and he continued getting 
background information on it and refining his ideas.
Recycling presents many challenges, as well as 
choices, to designers. They can design things made 
of recycled materials, products that break up into 
separate parts that can then be efficiently recycled, 
products that aid in separating the different types of 
recyclable materials, and products that simplify the 
collection process.
To design these products, designers have to 
consider the way people think about recycling.
Three basic approaches to recycling are:
1) People are careless and apathetic and cannot 
be asked to separate their trash. This means that the 
waste pick up service will pick up trash the same 
way it does now, and haul it to a separation plant 
where machines and humans will separate the trash 
into recyclable parts.
2) The two bag system where people are asked 
to separate recyclable from non-recyclable trash
ing and saving costs on the recycling collection, 
making things out of recycled goods, and making 
things that encouraged recycling by making it easier 
or even inviting to recycle. Some of the most practi
cal ideas were for light, interlocking containers that 
could be wheeled; an airport recyclables container 
with separate sections for glass, newspapers, cans, 
and trash; and an office recycling unit for different 
kinds of paper.
For a design to work, it has to be feasible and 
useful. It must also take into account human factors. 
Human factors in the recycling project would 
involve things like how easily recognizable the 
object is as a recycled material or recycling aid, how
Every year, students in Senior 
Industrial Design studio 
tackle the problem of design
ing products for consumers 
with special needs or for 
special purposes. This year, 
students in Alex Ballys studio 
were given the theme of recy
cling.
transportable are containers for recyclable trash, 
how inviting the product is to use, etc. For example, 
an airport recycling container has an extra section 
for trash to discourage people from messing up the 
other compartments. The newspaper compartment 
opens up on the front of the container and is located 
near the bottom so papers can be pulled out. It is 
easily recognized by its unique shape, blue and 
silver color, and the recycle logo on the front. Since it 
will be placed where there is a lot of traffic, it needs 
to be prominent.
Projects like the recycled playground, where the 
objects are made of recycled materials and designed 
to promote education about recycling, and the 
hydroponic project, which would break down 
certain kinds of plastic to use as the pots and other 
plastics in place of soil for potted plants, are too 
complex and subtle for the average person's knowl
edge of recycling.
The designs and models produced from all this 
work are not intended as prototypes for actual 
production. Before production would be possible, 
more research has to be done on the costs of produc
ing the product, its consumers, and other realistic 
factors. There has to be a definite market for the 
product. Most of these sophisticated products are 
decades beyond this society, where we can barely 
expect people to throw cans into recycling bins.
Some of these products, like the airport recycling bin 
and easily transportable recycling dumpsters would 
simplify recycling. But even these very practical 
products require that the general public have a 
greater commitment to recycling before they could 
actually be produced.
by Shizuka Otake 
Tartan Stafjwriter
\kr-neg'-\ 13

---------------------------------------------------

Non-FederalHow CMU Earns Its Research Nickel
UC.bN DbubNhf 
/|v0^" # O
,gbNoy /|v1^"
xbhfC. ' xithg
JbNImsbr /Xv1^" w wgaa1 ' Figures are for fiscal year 1989.
Source: Carnegie Mellon Facts 1990
r-CIT Research Centers
bgCbN DaN pbnbguhRfb JyrCbtr /pJ" develops al
gorithmic solutions through comprehensive research 
in the following three areas: fault-tolerant computing, 
real-time systems, and high-performance processor 
architectures. John Shen, ECE Department, 
Hamerschlag Hall 2109, x3601.
bgCbN DaN ,gbNoy hgu ,gImNagtbgChf JCiumbr /,,J"
conducts interdisciplinary research in environmental 
science and technology, energy science and tech
nology, and energy-environmental systems and related 
policy. Edward S. Rubin, EPP Department, Baker Hall 
128A, X5897
bgCbN DaN ,gomgbbNbu 3hCbNmhfr explores concepts 
of theory-assisted engineering of materials as well as 
the uses of artificial intelligence and expert systems 
in materials development, processing and selection. 
Basic areas of research include the complex interre
lationships among the classification, development, 
and manufacture of materials, along with potential 
product development. J.M. Howe, MEMS Depart
ment, Wean Hall 4317, X2700; A.W. Thompson, 
MEMS Department, Wean Hall 3327, X2700
hRaNhCaNy DaN WiCathCbu JyrCbtr hgu gDaNthCmag 
lNasbrrmgo /WJl" focuses its research in the areas 
of communication systems, control, robotics, signal 
processing with applications to manufacturing, 
reconfigurable robotic manipulators, image and hu
man speech processing, radar and sonar, and adaptive 
motor control. Jose Moura, ECE Department, Porter 
Hall B20, X6341
bgCbN DaN ,gCNbnNbgbiNmhf pbIbfantbgC /,p" stud
ies entrepreneurship and teaches by apprenticeship. 
Dwight M. Baumann, Mechanical Engineering Depart' 
ment, Scaife Hall 419, x2492
bgCbN DaN ,\sbffbgsb mg UnCmshf phCh lNasbrrmgo 
/,Upl" conducts research in optical processing for 
industrial inspection, signal processing, pattern recog
nition, mobile robots, symbolic processing, optical 
storage, and neural networks. David Casasent, ECE 
Department, Hamerschlag Hall 308, x2464
bgCbN DaN Nag hgu JCbbfthFfgo cbrbhNs. /Jc"
carries out basic and long-term research relevant to the 
production of Iron and steel including new ironmaking 
technologies, refining of steel and special alloys, analy
sis and optimization of continuous casting and novel 
new casting processes. RJ. Fruehan, MEMS Depart
ment, Wean Hall 4319, X2677
bgCbN DaNd.mg Tmftr Jsmbgsbr /dTJ" focuses on three 
areas: (1) to develop new thin film materials having 
unique properties; (2) to understand the behavior of 
polymeric films under surface dominated environment; 
and (3) to assess mechanisms governing the stability 
of thin films and structures. S. Mahajan, MEMS Depart
ment, Wean Hall 3311, X2702
lbggryfIhgmhJ,3Wd,xbgCbNaD ,\sbffbgsb focuses 
on semiconductor manufacturing with emphasis on 
computer tools for rapid yield learning. Wojciech Maly, 
ECE Department, Hamburg Hall 2125, X8889; Andrzej 
Strojwas, ECE Department, Hamburg Hall 2125, x8889
phCh JCaNhob JyrCbtr bgCbN performs research in, 
and development of, advanced materials, devices, 
and systems relating to data storage for advanced 
computer systems. The centers research focuses on 
magnetic and magneto-optical recording technologies, 
advanced data storage system architectures, and 
advanced thin-fllm and permanent magnet materials. 
Mark H. Kryder, ECE Department, Hamerschlag Hall 
A206, X6600
phCh JCaNhob JyrCbtr bgCbN develops high-speed 
storage structures to retain large amounts of data for 
highly-developed computer systems, Including ad
vanced materials, devices, and systems relating to 
data storage for advanced systems with emphasis on 
magnetic and magneto-optical recording technolo
gies, advanced data storage system architectures, 
and advanced thin-fllm and permanent magnet mate
rials. Mark H. Kryder, ECE Department, Hamerschlag 
Hall A206, X6600
JcO37 cbrbhNs. bgCbN DaN atniCbNOWmubu 
pbrmog /JcO37OcOWp" focuses on developing 
an interactive Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) 
Design Automation (DA) system that can take a highlevel behavioral description of a computer chip and 
generate a set of masks which can be used to 
fabricate the chlp.The automation system should be 
capable of generating designs which are functionally 
correct, meet all of the specified constraints, are 
testable, and have a profitable manufacturing cost. 
Ronald Rohrer, ECE Department, Hamerschlag Hall 
2125, X8889
14 \kr-neg'-e\

---------------------------------------------------

GSIA Researches Risks
Within the walls 
of GSIA, buried in the 
piles of paper that fill 
his office, Professor 
Lester Lave exposes 
unseen risks while 
debunking paranoia 
over supposed
For the past four years, Professor Lave has 
worked on research spanning "from highway safety 
to dams failing catastrophically, to toxic chemicals in 
the environment to global climate warming." In each 
of these areas, he concentrates on the study of risk 
management, risk communication, and risk percep
tion. He works with other GSIA professors on 
research funded by grants obtained from the Na
tional Science Foundation and some private organi
zations.
Obtaining grants, however, is a problem in 
itself. Competition is very high, usually with only 
one applicant out of seven successfully being 
granted money for his or her study. An application 
covers what the research will cover and why it 
should be considered important.
However, Lave notes that once the grant is 
received, "what you are really responsible for is 
doing great research." If something is found that 
alters your study, you are expected to pursue it and 
change the original goals of the grant. The research 
process hardly everends when the grant money 
does. Professor Lave and others have dedicated their 
own money to continuing projects they have found 
needed more inQiepth study.
All the research going on at CMU does affect the 
school. When a grant is obtained, it is expected that 
the researcher will report on his or her progress in 
scientific journals. Many professors also publish 
articles in newspapers and present their ideas in 
meetings with business leaders and congressmen.
Through publication and talks with business 
leaders, CMU receives publicity and prestige. If the 
research is exceptional, leaders take notice of the 
school where it was done, and that can influence 
them to recruit at CMU.
In the past few years, Lave and some of his 
associates have worked on many interesting 
projects. One involving regulations on automobiles 
found that as each part of a car became regulated, a 
trade off had to be made. In a car, emissions, fuel 
ecnomy, and safety are regulated. Lave found that 
to obtain better fuel economy, cars must be made 
lighter and smaller, decreasing safety. Also, to 
control emissions, fuel economy must suffer. There
fore, when Congress passes tighter regulations on 
ne part, such as fuel economy, they may not know 
hat safety will go down. Lave does not expect 
Congress not to pass regulations, he simply wants 
them to take the risks into account. Another auto 
safety project Lave has been involved with studied
rGSIA
the dangers of driving at a certain 
time. The results show that the 
most dangerous time to drive is 
Sunday between 1 am and 2 am.
Surprisingly, between 11 am and 
12 pm on Sunday is the safest time 
(140 times safer).
A third project studied cancer 
causing agents. Lave found that 
dieting is almost as dangerous as 
smoking because necessary foods 
are usually cut out. Also, he has 
shown that people tend to go 
overboard, worrying about 
getting cancer from something 
that has little or no risk. This enters the area of risk 
perception; people do not know what organization 
to trust, the one saying something is not a risk or the 
one that is saying it is.
All this research is not done exclusively by 
professors, though. The most common participation 
comes from PhD students and Masters students, 
sometimes in the form of an independent study 
course. However, undergraduates have been 
involved in the past. Aspects of any research project 
can usually be carved off as a separate project. One 
such example involved the study of flood areas and 
why people do not take advantage of government 
subsidized flood insurance or do not take steps to 
protect their property.
Two undergraduate students worked on a 
smaller part of the project that involved going to a 
local flood area that had just been hit. They asked if 
the people who lived there knew it was a flood area 
and if they were going to move out. In most cases, 
the people knew it was a flood area, but only those 
that didn't own houses were going to move. The 
students ended up getting summer jobs out of it, but 
opportunities like this are extremely limited for 
undergrads.
If you are interested in a topic, you may want to 
try asking your favorite GSIA professor if they have 
anything for you to do.
Currently, a group of GSIA professors (Profes
sor Lave included) are getting geared up to do a 
major project on the greenhouse effect. Professor 
Lave has been working on this topic for eleven 
years, but only recently has grant money become 
available. When the grant comes, the professors will 
begin working on three separate projects; the layout 
of the greenhouse effect that will study what climate 
changes will occur and the effect of these changes on 
the economy and environment, a study of the three 
coal giants (U.S.A., U.S.S.R., and China), and a study 
of how people feel and what they know about global 
climate changes.
People may ask why waste all this money on 
research, or even bother to do research at all. Profes
sor Lave quoted Thomas Malthus from the 1800's. 
"Human beings are always destined to live on the
bgCbNDaNC.b 3hghobtbgC aD dbs.gafaoy develops information that 
will contribute to the practice of managing new technology and new 
information systems in organizations. The information may be in the 
form of new concepts, theories, measurement, and analytic tools that 
will help in the management of new technology. Paul S. Goodman, 
GSIA 228, x2288
bgCbN DaN lNauisC cbrbhNs. /lc" addresses research issues in 
the design, development, and management of new products and 
sen/ices. Peter Farquhar, GSIA 316B, x8838
bgCbN DaN C.b JCiuy aD liRfms lafmsy /Jll" conducts research that 
brings both economics and political science expertise to bear on 
public policy, runs conferences and provides pre doctoral fellowships. 
Allan Meltzer, GSIA 218, x2283
bgCbN DaN cmrF lbNsbnCmag hgu attigmshCmag 
/cl" aims at improving how companies, work
ers, the public, and regulatory agencies deal with 
significant health and safety hazards. Lester Lave, 
GSIA 314; x8837; Baruch Fischhoff, SDS, Porter 
Hall 219E, x3246; Granger Morgan, EPP, Baker Hall 
129H;x2672
edge of starvation" because the population will 
outgrow the land. Then, starvation and disease will 
persist until the old balance between man and land 
is achieved again.
Today's research in the engineering and social 
science disciplines is proving Thomas Malthus 
wrong by enabling us to obtain more from the land 
while using less of it. The professors at GSIA are 
contributing to research that is teaching the world 
how to use the Earth to its full potential without 
abusing it.
by Rich Robinson 
Tartan Staffiuriter
\kr-neg-e\
Jennifer Kerstein 
Tartan Magazine Editor 
Alison Green 
Tartan Assistant Magazine Editor 
Staffwriters and other helpful people:
Laura Adams 
Dan DeGrandpre 
Megan Dietz 
Dan Ferrell 
Nathan Fullerton 
Stephen Glicker 
Tripp Goldsberry 
Sarah Hamilton 
DA. Henderson 
Shizuka Otake 
Pauletta Pan 
Rich Robinson 
Cesar Sanchez 
Heather Walker
 copyright 1990 The Tartan
\kr-neg'-e\ 15

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

^ Henderson/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
s aD C.b TW gms.br igubNoamgo ubshubrOmagoOh2hmCbu satnfbCmagv
New talent breathes life 
into dormant CFA niches
By TRUPTI PATEL
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
Architect Henry Hombostels visionary 
idea was to carve five niches into the outer 
facade of the College of Fine Arts. However, 
guns, destruction, and utter chaos on a 
continent over 3,000 miles away brought 
this project on the Carnegie Tech campus 
to a screeching halt 75 years ago.
Three quarters of a century later, 
Hombosters dream is being resurrected 
by CMU faculty and students as well as 
many skilled international artisans. 
Through a generous bequest of $850,000 
from the late Vemer Purnell, a Carnegie 
Tech alumnus, the CFA niche project has 
been revived and is flourishing once again.
Hombostel, the primary architect of CFA 
and the first dean of the school, envisioned 
the creation of five niches depicting major 
styles developed throughout architectural
history: Greek, Roman, Gothic, Renais
sance, and non-Western. This exterior el
ement of CFA was meant to echo the 
interior of the building, with its inlaid 
floors and ceiling paintings, in order to 
establish a theme of education and inspi
ration for all the students of the univer
sity.
The project experienced a long hiatus 
until Purnell approached university offi
cials about completing the niches as a 
tribute to his parents. Purnell, a graduate 
of interior design in the class of 1926, 
shared a love of architecture with 
Hombostel and had a strong desire to see 
the implementation of the project.
The initial attempt to revive the ven
ture occurred in 1985 under then-CFA 
Dean, Akram Midani. However, since the 
projected cost was close to three million 
dollars, the idea was abandoned.
Please see NICHES, page L6
,hs. aD C.b gms.br 
hNs.mCbsCiNhf bNhv
represents a different
RaIb~ TNbr.tbg Wmtbb )bhf /TW"w 3bfmrrh ciDDa /d"w ,fbgh lhnhobaNomai /d"w 
Dmfmb Ghubf /x'JJ"w hgu ,fhgh xaDDthg /TW" nhirb DaN h tatbgC ag C.bmN 2hy Ca 
DNhCbNgmCy :ihu DaN C.b JhCiNuhy xhffa2bbg nhNCmbrv WRaIb Nmo.C~ x'JJ 
l.ataNbr hiNbg JNasygrFm hgu 3hNgm )fhFb hssatnhgy JCinmu 3hg /x'JJ 
r Chris JbbRbsF" ag .mr :ibrC Ca ua rCinmu C.mgorv hNgbomb 3bffag rCiubgCr 
Dfa2bu C.bmN CNib safaNr C.mr 2bbFbgu hr C.by uNbrrbu in DaN C.b IhNmair xhffa2bbg 
mv comaov i)gagymoi)tm Wfb\ lhC.aw SNv 2hr ag .hgu hC 3aNb2aau AhNubgr 
NCiNuhy gmo.C hr NbrmubgCr fbDC DaN C.b Digv

---------------------------------------------------

ThomasSenior
PITTSBURGH,..
L2 The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 1990
Pittsburgh cemeteries offer a slice of histo
By DAN HOLLAND
Tartan Staffwriter
All too often, Halloween and 
horror movies like Night of the 
Living Dead elicit eerie feelings 
and dark tales about cemeteries. 
The gloomy mausoleums and 
crypts will spook even the boldest 
among us.
, Despite the negative connota
tions (and nightmares) attached 
to gravesites, many cemeteries in 
Pittsburgh challenge that stigma. 
The hundreds of majestic trees, 
man-made lakes, and grassy 
slopes of the citys garden cem
eteries are reminiscent not of a 
burial ground for dead people, 
but of a placid park, almost suit
able for a picnic. Historically, 
however, cemeteries were not al
ways like this.
Downtown, on Sixth Avenue, 
sandwiched between huge sky
scrapers and roaring traffic is the
"Cemeteries were our first parks.
They brought out Pittsburghs more 
romantic aspects and reflect its 
societal values..."
 Marilyn Evert, 
Homewood Cemetery archivist
Trinity Protestant Episcopal Ca
thedral, built in 1870. An epitaph 
on a tomb outside the church 
reads: In memory of Doctor 
Breton Brunot who departed his 
life April 2,1815 in the 25th year 
of his age. He was an ornament to 
his profession, a friend of the poor, 
a fit companion of the virtuous, 
and a useful member of society. 
The Trinity Cathedral Cemetery 
stands as a remnant of age-old 
cemeteries which lay within the 
city as part of everyday life in the
, i nuiudb mcnuib/ lariari oenior moiograpner
S.mr thNFbN g C.b xatb2aau btbCbNy 2hr tarC fmFbfy bNbsCbu hDCbN 
=zB|q mC mr 2NmCCbg mg .mgbrb Ca thNF C.b .mgbrb rbsCmag aD C.b 
sbtbCbNyv cbhumgo ua2g2hNuw C.b DmNrC safitg ag C.b Nmo.C rhyr 
5,rChRfmr.bu C2a ybhNr RbDaNb 4hg ,tnbNaN aD C.b .mgo pyghrCyY CaaF 
C.b C.Nagb 4mg MzB|YvV d.b tmuufb safitg rhyrw *d.b lmCCrRiNo. 
sbtbCbNy DaN C.b DaNbmog .mgbrbwV hgu C.b C.mNu safitg rhyrw 
4!,rChRfmr.bu ag C.mr fisFy uhCbvV
early to mid 19th century.
The Trinity Church Cemetery 
was formerly a Native American 
burial ground, and is the resting 
place of the Principal Chief of the 
Shawnee Nation.
As Pittsburgh grew, it became 
home to 4,000 graves in the early 
1800s and includes the bodies of 
Dr. Nathaniel Bedford, founder 
of University of Pittsburgh, and 
Butler Countys namesakes, 
General William Butler and 
Colonel James Butler, soldiers of 
the Revolutionary War and the 
War of 1812. Then things began 
to change.
As Pittsburgh expanded, atti
tudes about death forced many 
cemeteries to be located outside 
of the city. People wanted to mini
mize grief and suffering by plac
ing their dead away from innercity burial grounds. Sanitation 
was also a major factor: as many 
of the deceased fell victim to ty
phoid and other highly contagious 
diseases, their bodies were taken 
far from crowded population cen
ters to reduce further epidemics.
These attitudes expedited the 
design of the garden cemetery, 
popular first in 19th century Eu
rope before being copied here in 
the United States. Garden cem
eteries were designed essentially 
as parks, with flowing circuitous 
roads, rolling hills, trees, and 
ponds.
The garden cemetery clearly 
reflected how people felt about 
death, with an emphasis on a 
benevolent God and a clearly de
fined concept of Heaven as lifes 
reward. Many settings of the gar
den cemeteries in and around 
Pittsburgh have a heavenly aura.
The Allegheny Cemetery in 
Lawrenceville was Pittsburghs 
first garden cemetery. It was con
structed in 1844 on the thenboundary of Pittsburgh, as the 
fourth of its kind in the nation. 
(The first being the Auburn Cem
etery in Boston, built in 1831.) 
But soon Pittsburghs rapid ex
pansion surrounded the Allegh
eny Cemetery, and future burial 
grounds had to be placed further 
from the citys core.
By the late 1870s, many graves 
from within the city were moved
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photograph 
JCv 3ms.hbfr btbCbNy mg C.b GaNC. Jmub aDDbNr hg mtnNbrrmIb Imb2 aD UhFfhgu hgu C.b xmff pmrCNmsCv
outside its boundaries to make 
space for roads and businesses. 
In fact, 14 of Pittsburghs earlier 
cemeteries were relocated to the 
outskirts of town.
In 1878, the Homewood Cem
etery was established at the edge
of Squirrel Hill, on the 175-acre 
estate of the recently deceased 
Judge William Wilkins. It accom
modated many of the older graves 
and provided ample room for many 
more.
Pittsburgh continued to expand 
beyond the Homewood Cemetery, 
but its elements of natural beauty 
remained. Typical garden cemetery 
trees like the weeping willow, sym
bolic of sorrow, became common to 
both Homewood and Allegheny 
Cemeteries. Carefully planted rows 
of flowers in the shape of an anchor 
on a hillside represented hope for 
the buried souls. Burials here be
came honorable, which attracted 
many Pittsburghers to stake out 
plots in the serenity of garden cem
eteries.
The Homewood Cemetery has a 
disproportionate number of 
Pittsburghs notable elite class, like 
the railroad businessman Robert 
Pitcairn, Thomas and James 
Mellon, H. J. Heinz, and the Frick 
family. Many can also be found in 
Allegheny Cemetery: Captain J.B. 
Ford, founder of Pittsburgh Plate 
Glass; Joseph Horne of Hornes 
Department Stores; Thomas Clark, 
iron magnate; and the famous 
composer Stephen Foster.
Homewood Cemetery is also 
unique for its ethnic diversity. The 
origins of the deceased range from 
Scottish, English, German, and 
Welsh to Canadian, Chinese, and 
Greek Orthodox. The Chinese plot 
was established in 1901, but many 
did not remain buried theresome 
bodies were dug up and brought
back to their homeland in th 
1920s and 30s.
Other cemeteries throughou 
the city also include ethnic varia 
tion. The Calvary Cemetery 
Greenfield has distinct plots fo 
German, Irish, and Slavic peoples 
The German graves of St 
Michaels Cemetery on the Soutl 
Side were established in 1913 ti 
overlook the city from a sceni 
hillside. Jewish and Polish cem 
eteries dot Shaler Township, jus 
north of the city. The Uniondal 
Cemetery, an older and \i 
gravesite on the North Side, 
includes many of the displace 
bodies from Pittsburghs innercii) 
and has a wide range of ethm 
backgrounds.
Theres no need to worry 
the cemeteries are filling up, sa)* 
the Homewood Cemeterys book 
keeper and archivist Maril)1 
Evert. There are 67, 839 inter 
ments at Homewood, and aboj 
100 years of space left,
By contrast, the 300-acre Allege 
eny Cemetery has 117, 382 dea 
people, and is only about half M
The park-like serenity of tM 
cemeteries makes it hard to vis; 
alize an army of zombies on 
rampage. Cemeteries were oNJ 
first parks, said Evert. 
brought out Pittsburghs ni*j 
romantic aspects, and reflect i * 
societal values. Rather tha 
dread the spooky tombstones an 
mausoleums, take a pleasant w 
through a garden cemetery' a08 
explore a little bit of the untouc * 
beauty of Pittsburgh.
GbsNanafmr Irv 3bCNanafmr~ 7gfmFb xatb2aau hgu Wffbo.bgy btbCbNmbrw JCv 3ms.hbfr btbCbNy mr huehsbgC Ca NbrmubgCmhf hNbhrv
)j

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 1990L3
iPIN magazine editor to spar with Florida lawyer on censorship
L MEGAN DIETZ 
%tan Staffwriter
(phe United States has tradinally been an odd combination 
puritan morality and free exessionism. Today, however, this 
licate relationship is being 
eked by one of the largest ethi1 and legal controversies ever to 
it pop music  the 2 Live Crew 
jscenity case. Should 2 Live 
rew be permitted to market its 
Imittedly sexually explicit marial?
Many people, like Miami lawyer 
ick Thompson, say no. I heard 
e album for the first time in 
muary, said Thompson. I was 
unned when I verified that this 
as being sold to children naonwide.
Thompson will be on campus 
uesday for a debate with Spin 
iagazine editor Bob Guccione,
I on the topic of indecency in 
jpular music.
Contrary to popular belief,
Thompson does not support ban
ning of the 2 Live Crews music. 
Banning has already been de
clared unconstitutional by the 
Supreme Court.... I just want to 
see Luther Campbell [the leader 
of 2 Live Crew] prosecuted for 
breaking obscenity laws, he said.
Others, such as Guccione, be
lieve that prohibiting the 2 Live 
Crew from selling their material 
is an infringement of the groups 
First Amendment rights to free
dom of speech. Guccione is a wellknown opponent of censorship in 
any form.
Florida is the main battlefield 
for the legal side of the issue, but 
even local record stores have 
qualms about selling the album. 
Oasis Music and Video Store does 
sell 2 Live Crews newest album, 
Banned in the USA , but not As 
Nasty As They Wanna Be, the al
bum which started the contro
versy. But, said Francine 
McKane, manager of the Oasis in 
Monroeville, It has never been
confirmed by National Record 
Mart whether we are still carry
ing [As Nasty as They Wanna Be] 
or not. We never pulled it off the 
shelf. We just sold out of it and 
never reordered... because there 
is so much controversy sur
rounding that particular album. 
Eides Entertainment in 
[somewhere] sells both albums 
with no problems. Camelot Music 
sells the edited version offered by 
the band as an alternative to the 
explicit original.
Many people have accused 
Thompson of actually helping the
2 Live Crews career by giving 
them plentiful free publicity and 
making people curious enough to 
buy the 1.7 million copies of As 
Nasty As They Wanna Be already 
sold. Says Eides Entertainment 
employee Max Terasauro, [As 
Nasty As They Wanna Be] sat 
around for 6 or 8 months, but now 
we cant keep it in stock. They 
land of put fuel to the fire. 
However, as Thompson points
out, Their album is dropping like 
a rock down the charts.... Now, 
finally, Luther Campbell is about 
to be a ... memory in the Ameri
can conscience.
Radio stations are legally not 
allowed to play 2 Live Crews 
music (at least not the original 
cuts) because it has been declared 
legally obscene, and FCC regula
tions prohibit the playing of such 
material on the airwaves. Not 
that we would want to anyway, 
says WRCT program director 
Ralph Pleshar. Theyre just not 
that good.
Guidelines for determining the 
obscenity of a piece are very 
sketchy; the Public Radio Legal 
Handbook which details FCC 
regulations for all radio stations 
defines obscene as a piece in which 
is considered obscene bythe av
erage person applying contempo
rary community standards. 
Sometimes ridiculous obscenity 
charges have been brought 
against such programs as Mas
terpiece Theatre and Monty 
Pythons Flying Circus. However, 
most of these charges have been 
dropped. The 2 Live Crew is one 
of the few which has actually been 
declared legally obscene.
Paul Hetrick, vice-president for 
Focus on the Family, a national 
pro-family group, said in a New 
York Times interview that There 
are 87 descriptions of oral sex, 
116 mentions of male and female 
genitalia and other lyrical pas
sages referring to male ejacula
tion.
Bruce Rogow, a law professor at 
Nova University who specializes 
in the First Amendment and who 
is the chief defense counsel for 2 
Live Crew, said in a Times inter
view, I feel 2 Live Crew is be
coming a martyr to the First 
Amendment. Rogow expressed 
concern that the white uppermiddle-class people who run this 
country are cracking down on a 
black group whose music, even 
though challenging prevailing
white middle-class standards, 
may also aptly reflect the culture; 
and feelings of young blacks.
Public opinion at CMU con
cerning the 2 Live Crew is mixed; 
Architect freshman Fred Orndorff 
said, I see no problem with them 
doing it if thats their thing. Its a 
matter of free expression. They 
can do what they want. Ill justmake the decision of whether or 
not I want to listen to it.
It embarrasses me, as if I were 
listening to a dirty joke instead of 
a song, said Kathy Spencer, a 
freshman in CFA.
Jesse Pearson, a sophomore iri 
MCS, said, I guess they are ob
scene, but ... I like it. I like to 
listen to it, and I dont think 
theyre right to say what they 
want should be infringed upon.1
Tuesdays debate, sponsored by 
the CMU Activities Board, will be 
in the Wherrett Room at 7:30. 
Admission is free, but seating will 
be limited to 300 people.
Nothing ruins a day more than liking something that should be pathetic
If we could really understand 
ie cigar store next door-wouldnt 
,at be as amazing as climbing 
iount Everest? - From My Dinir With Andr
The worst thing that can hapen to someone who has their 
lind set on something is change, 
is a common situation. Your 
rlfriend dumps you for a guy 
ju are all set to hate and you 
ind up wishing he were female; 
[ainst your better judgement, 
m find yourself getting dewy 
yed during the interminable last 
:ene from Ghost; that package 
fVelveeta Shells and Cheese you 
lught on a dare actually tastes 
jod and worst of all, after seven 
ars of sell-out pop sludge,
WHO IS JAVS?
by Javier Grillo-Marxuach
George Michael puts out a good 
record.
The redemption of Saint George 
Michael might represent the 
greatest . PR coup of the decade. 
Not merely because St. Georges 
refusal to grant interviews, re
lease videos or make a show of the 
behind immortalized by Dana 
Carvey in order to bolster the 
sales of his new album Listen
Without Prejudice has already 
made the record the best selling 
album of1990, but also because it 
may trigger a reappraisal of 
Michaels early work. In 
reinventing himself as the sensi
tive, sweater wearing pop star, he 
has effectively turned the joke on 
those of us who initially made fun 
of his assets.
Now that St. George is begging 
us all to pray for time and has 
publicly declared that all of what 
he himself terms shaking your 
ass was a big mistake, can the 
rediscovery of Wham U.K. and 
Make it Big be far behind?
There is probably nothing 
wrong with a reappraisal of 
George Michaels work, except for 
the possibility that it may turn
out to be positive. Will it be much 
longer before the merits of Wake 
Me Up Before You Go-Go are 
openly dicussed in the literary 
and culture establishment?
It is unlikely, but one might 
consider the changing face of 
classicism in our society. I am not 
against the idea that with the 
passage of time things become 
revered as classic. Without this 
progression, such things as 
Beethovens Fifth, Doric columns 
and Kidney Bean shaped swim
ming pools would not be revered 
in the pantheon which they so 
rightly occupy.
Think of it this way, the present 
becomes a classic and then the 
past becomes a subject to be mined 
for signs of the greatness that
was to become. Or worse the past 
is re invented in order to fill the 
much needed void of a good old 
days which never truly existed.
Consider the case of Coca-Cola 
Classic. Nobody liked New Coke, 
right? So Coca-Cola Classic 
streams out into the market with 
guns and rockets, only Coca-Cola 
Classic doesnt really taste like 
what Coca-Cola proper tasted like 
before 1985, in spite of the fact 
that the companys executives 
continue to claim that the formula 
has remained unchanged. Nowit 
isl990andNew Coke is a thing of 
the past, except that Coca-Cola 
Classic tastes more like New Coke 
than Coca-Cola Proper.
All right, I realize that peeling 
the onion of history can be an
arduous task, but here is a more 
current example. In order to hoist 
up the sagging sales of the 
Macintosh computer, Apple is 
introducing the Macintosh Clas
sic. The Macintosh Classic only 
bears a casual resemblance the; 
original Macintosh, and one of 
the selling points the company; 
has been stressing lately stress-; 
ing is the computers capacity to; 
accept IBM compatible diskettes..
Now wait a minute, when I was' 
fourteen and Apple introduced the 
Macintosh, the big image was the; 
Orwell inspired advertisement in; 
which the marathon runner broke; 
into the stadium full of IBM; 
brainwashed freaks, twirls a large' 
sledgehammer over her head 
Please see JAV1, page L3,
,
II
REFERENDUM
Do you favor an increase of the Student
Activities Fee 
from $40 a semester to $50 a semester?
TIME: 9:00 - 4:30 
DATE: Tuesday, October 30 (TOMORROW) 
PLACE: In front of Doherty Hall
All students who pay the activities fee
are asked to vote.
VOTE
In case of rain, the voting will be on Wednesday.
V

---------------------------------------------------

MBA
E-Com puter
Nubrotahe dscv)yvr J
12:30P.M.1:30P.M.
nao.vro mbtg.srgb)
Group, were looking for top MBAs who know 
what it takes to achieve success in a highly com
petitive industry.
 Financial Planning
 Program/Laboratory Business Operations
Equal Opportunity Employer. Proof of U.S. 
citizenship may be required.
Now is your opportunity to turn your MBA 
and a brown bag lunch into an important step in 
your future. Join Hughes Aircraft Company ex
ecutives during lunch and youll see firsthand the 
exciting things going on at Hughes and the critical 
role you can play in our future success.
At HughesElectro-Optical & Data Systems

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 1990L5
Miscommunication causes cmuOUT to hire banner
Editors note: A version of this article 
appeared in last weeks issue. Pieces were 
inadvertently cut and the meaning was 
altered. We apologize for the confusion.
By MARNI BOREK
Tartan Staffwriter
The sky was the limit for cmuOUT at 
Carnegie Mellons annual Homecoming 
on Saturday, October 6. While other 
student organizations welcomed their 
alumni with leaflets and donuts, the gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual group greeted its 
own alumni with a banner flown above  
campus by a hired plane.
According to members of cmuOUT, the 
unusual greeting was necessary because 
the Alumni Relations Office was uncoop
erative in advertising the groups 
Homecoming event.
In what they described as a six week 
ordeal that included a letter campaign 
and phone calls, members of cmuOUT 
felt they had met with resistance to 
welcoming their gay alumni in the man
ner they had wished. The groups mem
bers feel that Associate Director of 
Alumni Relations Susan Hernandez was 
the contributing factor in their dilemma.
On August 20, 1988 H&SS alumnus 
Donn Hoffman called Hernandez. He 
told her that cmuOUT was holding a 
Happy Hour for alumni during Home
coming and asked to send a copy of a flyer 
advertising the event to her to have it 
placed in the roster of Homecoming 
events.
According to Hoffman, Hernandezs 
tone was cordial and receptive until 
she found out the group was comprised of 
gays, lesbians, and bisexuals. Hoffman 
said that Hernandez informed him that 
the Homecoming attendees would not be 
checking in when arriving on campus so 
no roster of eventswould be made 
available to them.
Her statements would have been ac
cepted if she had not gone on to make 
homophobic remarks like T am not a 
receptacle for all sorts of groups and We 
are not here for groups like yours to 
drum up business,  said Hoffman.
The following day, Hoffman sent a 
cmuOUT flyer accompanied by a letter 
signed by four CMU alumni to 
Hernandez. In the letter, the group re
quested that Hernandez include the fly
ers in the material distributed to Home
coming attendees when they registered.
The group also replied to the remarks 
made by Hernandez in her conversation 
with Hoffman the day before. You ex
pressed your concern about the member
ship of cmuOUT, the letter read. We 
are comprised of undergraduate and 
graduate students, faculty, staff, and 
alumni. Our alumni members are highly 
supportive, and it is they who conceived 
and will carry out our Homecoming 
Happy Hour event.
After receiving no response from 
Hernandez, members of cmuOUT sent 
out another letter, signed by another 
four alumni, on August 31. The content 
of this letter expressed concern for 
Hernandezs lack of response: cmuOUT 
contacted you last week and asked that 
you include an invitation to our iiomecoming Happy Hour.... Over a week has 
passed and we have received no commu
nication from your office.
After the second letter, a reporter from 
FOCUS, the CMU faculty magazine, 
Melissa Proios, a senior English major, 
was contacted by cmuOUT and told of 
the groups situation. On September 28, 
she contacted Hernandez to question her 
refusal of OUTs Homecoming request. 
According to Proios, Hernandez did not
The whole incident was caused by miscom
munication between Ms. Hernandez and 
cmuOUT... 
 David Maloney, 
vice president for Development
have time to meet with Proios, but did 
briefly converse with her on the phone.
I told her I wanted to hear her side of 
the story in the situation. I asked her 
about including OUTs flyer in the ros
ter. She told me it wasnt her jurisdiction 
and that I should talk with [Vice Presi
dent for Development] David Maloney, 
said Proios.
On October 1, Hernandez phoned 
Hoffman asking him for another copy of 
the flyer.
According to Hoffman, she said her 
previous refusal to include the flyer in 
the roster of events was due to a big 
misunderstanding.
New flyers were sent to Hernandez 
and she later contacted the group to 
discuss how the Happy Hour would be 
advertised in the Homecoming list of
activities. Hoffman said he felt that 
Hernandez was uncomfortable in add
ing that the group was an organization 
catering to gays, lesbians, bisexuals, and 
friends in the advertisement. She only 
included the cmuOUT logo and did riot 
add a description of the group.
Hernandez refused to comment about 
the entire conflict, but Maloney, who 
oversees the Alumni Relations Office, 
was available to discuss the predica
ment.
The whole incident was caused by 
miscommunication between Ms. 
Hernandez and cmuOUT; and Ms. 
Hernandez and myself. ...she did not 
know what type of organization cmuOUT 
was. Unfortunately, we did not react as 
quickly as the group deserved in response 
to their request, Maloney said.
George Michaels new album and Ghost are amazingly decent
JAVI, from page L3
(somethingmarathon runners are 
often known to do) and shatters 
the IBM world order. Obviously, 
we are now returning to the clas
sic age of IBM domination.
The revision of the past in terms 
of the present offers many sticky 
situations for the pop-historian 
to deal with. Most important 
amongst these is that it presents 
whatever is in the present as the 
only thing that was in the past. In 
1984 I returned from a summer 
exchange program in Germany 
toting a cassette of songs which
were popular in Europe at the 
time. I played one of the songs in 
this tape to a friend, assuring him 
that it would make it big in the 
U.S. within the end of the year. 
My disgusted friend told me that 
there was no way that the cre
ators of such vapid pop-sludge 
would ever replace Duran Duran 
in the chart topping business.
The song was Wake Me Up Be
fore You Go-Go.
And how many people out there 
are rushing out to buy the new 
Duran Duran album? How many 
of you know that Duran Duran is
still a band? How many of you 
Solely remember Duran Duran as 
the villain from Barbarella?
In any event, the loss of Duran 
Duran is no great one, after all, 
CDs are supposed to be inde
structible. And besides, there is 
no substitute for the egos of the 
fallen mighty, hence the release 
of new recordings by the Human 
League, ABC and Billy Idol, whose 
popularity seems to increase in 
proportion to his growing aware
ness of the sham that is his iden
tity as a leather clad quasi 
/punkster, will continue to remind
us of a past which does not solely 
encompass the demon hegemony 
of Phil Collins, George Michael 
and Madonna.
I believe that for better or worse 
the past will prevail, in spite of 
the fact that it will constantly be 
reclassified according to present 
fashion, because the things which 
we laud as icons of the past are 
the products of the same process 
which has been sped up to fever 
pitch today. Where Beethovens 
Fifth begat A Fifth of Beethoven 
(which was as good an introduc
tion to Beethoven as I was privy
to, having grown up a disco
brained child of the seventies); 
Wham! begat the New Kids, leav
ing George Michael to become the 
new recipient of critical and 
popular acclaim. Where CocaCola proper was fused with New 
Coke into the drink we now call 
Coca-Cola Classic, and the 
Macintosh computer is now gene 
splicing itself into the IBM fam
ily, a shift in the order of things 
only causes the yearning for 
things past which motivated this 
writing.
Still, the thought that the crit
ics of the future may return to the 
eighties and nineties to chart the 
divine progression inherent in the 
collected works of George Michael, 
is not as disturbing a thought as 
the nuggets of pop culture which 
one might imagine as the prod
ucts of a society which sees the 
collected works of George Michael 
as the bullwark of a classical era.
Of course, this doesnt alter t}ie 
fact that I liked his new alburn. 
That still pisses me off.
Javier Grillo-Marxuach is -a 
senior writing major in H&SS,
Snakes catching brightens up an otherwise dull day in the Southern suburbs
There is one primal call in the 
South that takes priority over all 
of the days events:
SNAKE!
I lived in a semi-suburban area 
where we, as children, would be 
desperate to play with anything 
interesting. Outerspace war toys 
became boring when played with 
alone. So, to become a hub of so
cial interest among Southern 
children, we caught snakes.
Doing this is not as easy as it 
seems. Finding the snake is not 
the difficult part; its catching the 
r. Snakes, if they are the 
black rat kind, are the most de
sirable, especially if theyre as 
huge as the rubber ones sold in 
toy stores. However, catching even 
small rat snake was awful: we 
had to comer it, then dodge the 
nonpoisonous teeth. They are not 
venomous, but tetanus is not a
SOUTHERN COMFORT
by Alison Carter
joke with these snakes. Some
times nonpoisonous bites are 
worse than those of vipers.
Tooth-dodging done, the sub
dued snake in our hands, we im
mediately showed the new critter 
to our friends. We were a hit. 
Everybody in our class, our school, 
crowded around the bell jar that 
we held up confidently, holding a 
very irritated-looking snake.
This happened many times 
during the second and third grade. 
Some people would have lives that
revolved around catching snakes 
and living to tell the story. Some 
people just told the story. There 
was one frightening tale that I 
learned during the third grade, 
though: the saga of the Queen 
Snake and the King Cobra.
The Queen Snake and the King 
Cobra lived in the dark woods in 
lairs and holes just beyond Una 
Elementary School. They did not 
like guns, so they left the children 
alone. They reached incredible 
lengths. The King Cobra some
times grew to 50 feet with twelveinch fangs. And the Queen Snake? 
Well, she did not get as big as her 
other lore-mate, but she made up 
for it in aggressiveness. She would 
grasp her tail with her mouth, 
become as tense as a bicycle tire, 
and roll down hills to meet with 
her unsuspecting prey.-
I never took any walks in those
Yes, copperheads may be quiet and 
still, but they are still copperheads 
and are still subject to mood swings.
woods. I stayed in my quiet peb
bly comer of the playground and 
continued to be the chicken, the 
snake-phobe, the third-grade 
nothing. However, with my 
searches in the river-gravel that 
they used for playgrounds, I found 
a lot of Indian money that could 
be traded. I became a millionare 
in a day with my collection of 
fossilized plant stalks turned le
gal tender.
I dont remember any of the 
teachers who had problems with 
the snake-catchers. If the jar of 
snake became too hot an item and 
rioting broke out, she (the teach)
would calmly snatch the jar and 
put it on top of her bookshelf in 
class to be returned at the end of 
the day.
I do remember one incident of 
genuine fear, though. One kid, 
tired of catching black racer 
snakes, came upon one that was 
quiet, still, and blended in per
fectly with the color of the leaves. 
Proud of finding it, he immedi
ately snatched it, stuck it in a bell 
jar, and showed it to his class
mates.
I thought it was strange to see a 
snake that could smile so well. 
The smile, however, was speciesrelated. Just before turning she^twhite and fainting, the teachier 
calmly picked up the jar arid 
lobbed it fifty feet to hear it tinlcle 
and break far into the woods. Yes, 
copperheads may be quiet and 
still, but they are still copperheads 
and are still subject to mood 
swings.
I think to this day that snake 
was smiling.
Snake-catching, however, is riot 
as dangerous a sport as it seems. 
There are critter hobbies that 
could be much worse: when I w^s 
much younger, I would find Blafck 
Widow spiders in the rockpile 
outside the house and bring theim 
in ajar to show to my mother.,
Alison Carter is a CFA fresh
man who was spotted in disguise 
this Halloween weekend as k.d. 
lang.
ALL MATH AND MATH/CS MAJORS 
PREREGISTRATION FOR SPRING 1991
To avoid long lines, the Math Dept, is preregistering 
Math and Math/CS Majors only on November 1 and 2, 
from 8:30 am - 4 pm.
Please see your advisor or Dr. Russ Walker to approve 
your courses on the form to be found in the Spring 1991 
Schedule Book before coming to sign up for classes. It is 
to your advantage that you come in to avoid lines.
The Math Dept, will register all others and any Math 
major who did not make November 1 and 2 
preregistration on the Registrars specified dates.
SENIORS: Please stop in. the Math Dept, before the end 
of the semester to have requirements checked for 
graduation.
New Courses in 
3aubNg hgoihobr
Spring 1990
SuPPealiSw in France and Spain
(82-466) 
Three 6-unit mini courses 
in French, Spanish and English 
Instructors: Susan Polansky and Michael West
The Netv tier many 
Das neue Deutschland
(82-427) 
6-unit mini course in English 
9-unit course in English and German 
Instructor: Christian Hallstein 
Course descriptions available in the BH228B.

---------------------------------------------------

; On the first Tuesday after the 
first Monday of November, mil
lions of United States citizens 
i{)ill sit at home and complain 
dbout the state of various levels 
of government.
\ Statistics show that in some 
communities, less than half the 
citizens actually vote, thus not 
participating in our democracy.
; Whether due to inability to 
get to the polls or just sheer 
Ifiziness, lack of voter activity is 
becoming a dilemma in this 
country.
\ The strongest voting bloc in 
the countiy is the over-sixty age 
group. This led The Tartan to 
ask students this week, How do 
you feel about the United States 
looting sysytem?
Robert Berthold 
Sophomore, H&SS
I think that on the local level, 
the voting procedures are pretty 
well done, and on the state level, 
its not too bad. But the presiden
tial elections... should be changed 
to a direct vote where the popular 
vote wins.
Jennifer Heid 
Sophomore, H&SS
Ive voted ever since Ive been 
able to and Ive voted consistently. 
I think its very important.
Thomas Cook 
Junior, H&SS
I cant answer a question as 
complex as that in a single Tartan 
news McNugget.
Dan Burkett 
Graduate Student, MCS
I think it needs to be changed 
because obviously there arent 
enough people who are interested 
in voting. Oftentimes, people just 
dont vote because theres no one 
good running. I think we need a 
way to inform the voters a little 
better.
Kip Gates Moore 
Freshman, MCS
There definitely needs to be 
a drive to register to vote. If we 
dont get anyone voting, the 
process doesnt work. Its pretty 
simple.
SPRING 1991 REGISTRATION WEEK
GRADUATESSENIORSJUNIORSSOPHOMORESFRESHMEN
(EXCEPT CIT/MCS)
ALL OTHERS
MONDAY MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY
NOVEMBER 5 NOVEMBER 5 NOVEMBER 6 NOVEMBER 7 NOVEMBER 8 NOVEMBER 9
All students (except CIT/MCS freshmen) should register during Registration Week if they wish to enroll for Spring 1991. If you wont be returning (for reasons 
other than graduation), submit an Application for Withdrawal or Leave of Absence (marked Spring 1991) to the Registrars Office, Warner Hall 201.
All currently-enrolled students (except CIT/MCS freshmen) will first receive a Biographic Update Sheet and a letter explaining the registration process; review the Bio Update Sheet, make corrections and submit the form to 
the Registrars Office (if there are no changes, keep the form). A Registration/Add/Drop form is enclosed in each Spring 1991 Schedule of Classes, which will be available on October 25 at the Skibo Information Desk, 
outside the CFA Deans Office and inside the main entrances to Baker Hall and Doherty Hall. CIT/MCS freshmen will receive separate instructions for registration from their deans office.
HOW TO REGISTER O Pick up a Spring 1991 Schedule of Classes with Registration/Add/Drop (RAD) form inside.
 Plan course selections and alternatives with your advisor, and obtain your advisors approval on the RAD. Many advisors will extend 
office hours during Registration; contact yours for specific information. RAD forms without advisor approval will not be processed.
 Go to the departments teaching the course(s) in which you wish to register on your registration day (or after), between 9:30 AM and 4:00 PM.
The department will enter the course(s) directly into your schedule on the Student Information System and sign approval on the RAD.
Remember that if you are on a wait list for a course, you are not registered for the course; you must add the course later (if approved).
 Return the completed, signed Registration/Add/Drop form to your department. The goldenrod copy is yours to keep.
P.S. Approximately one week after Registration Week, you will receive confirmation of your course schedule in the mail.
P.P.S. Your department may conduct a pre-registration prior to Registration Week. Theyll send you instructions if necessary.
THIS MESSAGE BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE REGISTRARS OFFICE!
L6 ' The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 1990
Children of all teeth sizesdelight at CarnegieMuseum
Persons Opinion
Tad Dockstader/Tartan Photo Editor 
SaghC.hg asFbw SbNbty )a2rbNw hgu Shtbr hrFa aD dhNbgCitw lWw rCiuy hC C.b b\.mRmCv
Tad Dockstader/Tartan Photo Editor 
TaN ratbw C.b gb\C RbrC C.mgo Ca h uao mr h uasmfb umgarhiN hC C.b hNgbomb 3irbitv
_ . _ I au uuonsiauci/ i ai lai i ri gbgb cuauidgsbNhCanr faigomgo hC C.b hNgbombv
By COLLEEN KANE
Tartan Staffwriter
An ear splitting roar is heard 
from the next room and a toddler 
emerges running and screaming 
like a banshee. Upon pushing 
apart the palm leaves, four di
nosaurs appear roaring, stomp
ing, and scaring a Cub Scout 
pack.
No, you are not in a horror 
house but at the Carnegie 
Museums Dinosaurs Alive ex
hibit.
The exhibit consists of seven 
latex dinosaur robots that move 
and roar in a relatively realistic 
manner.
Once you push through all of 
the children, the first four scaled 
creatures make their debut. The 
Stegasaurous thrashes its tail 
and rears upon its hind legs from
eyes and opens his hippopotamus 
like mouth with a roar. This time 
though, the Cub Scouts roar back 
at the top of their lungs.
The future roboticists converge 
upon Chief two sizes of teeth. 
The Dimetrodus has its mechani
cal skeleton completely revealed 
with hand controls. Each Cub 
slams a fist upon a button and the 
dinosaur convulses.
The last participant in this 
macabre fanasy is a crested liz
ard. However, by the Cubs con
sensus it looks more like a snor
kel than a lizard. Even though 
the Paresaurolophus was a land 
animal, it breathed through'its 
psuedo snorkel.
Once you leave the world of 
electronics and latex, the life-size 
skeletal structures seem dull. The 
original skeletal structure of a 
35- foot long, 4 ton skeleton has a 
pertinent history. The skeleton 
was excavated in 1899 and es
tablished the Carnegie Museum 
as a institute of dinosaur collection 
and study.
It became Andrew Carnegies 
favorite pet. So much so he had 
reproductions shipped to Europe 
and South America.
The original remains on dis
play in Pittsburgh. Carnegies af
fection for the bones was so great 
that its scientific name is 
Allosaurus Camegli.
its earthen mound as the young 
scouts eagerly comment. Mr. 
Allosaurus, denoted the differ
ent lizard on his bio-plaque, claws 
the air with his. forearms in an
intimidating way, but only if your 
less than five years old. The 
Ideceptive lizard, scientifically 
known as Apatosaurus, is much 
gentler than his reptialian com
panion and sways his emensly 
long neck to and fro with his child 
astride him.
As you proceed with the Cub 
Scouts, who have now taking on a 
machismo attitude, through the 
simulated prehistoric terrain, a 
three horned face claws the
ground. The Triceritops rolls his

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  29 October 1990
CFA niches undergo 
long-awaited carving
YICHES, from page LI
In 1989, Lowry Burgess, a 
ieW dean, took the helm at 
]FA. Interested in pursuing 
he completion of the niches, 
jurgess contacted Purnell once 
[gain and plans were made to 
omplete the project.
The rebirth of the buildings 
lesign is in keeping with the 
nergy of the College of Fin 
^ts  Burgess says. The unirersity supplemented Purnells 
[onation with $250,000 of its 
jwn in order to make the 
arving of the niches possible. 
The project is being sculpted 
,y Cathedral Stoneworks, a 
few York-based firm famous 
or its restoration of the St. 
ohn the Divine Cathedral in 
Manhattan. David Teitlebaum, 
resident of Cathedral Stone
works, says that the Carnegie 
iellon project is the single most 
jnportant work of architecture 
n stone going on in the world 
ight now.
Purnell, who passed away on 
une 5, was unable to witness 
lie first strike ceremony which 
ook place on October 4. The 
eremony represented the culnination of over five years of 
york by Purnell and others, 
'his ceremony was lead by 
iaster Carver Nicholas 
airplay, a native of England, 
yho will be heading the re
owned carving team.The 
ther carvers, Marc Boukra, 
Immanuel Rourchet, Chrisian Paul Dawson, and John 
lutchinson, comprise a highly 
killed group of artisans choen by Cathedral Stoneworks 
hrough a directcompetition.
In addition to the carvers, 
IMU architectural history 
irofessor Richard Cleary is co
ordinating the project with the 
help of Bruce Lindsey and Paul 
Rosenblatt, also CMU archi
tecture professors. Both 
Lindsey and Rosenblatt are re
sponsible for designing the fi
nal completion of the niches. 
Rosenblatts enthusiasm for 
the project and its all-encom
passing nature is apparent.
Whats really nice about this 
project, something that Im 
very proud of, is that although 
Bruce and I are responsible for 
the design, there are faculty 
members from Industrial and 
Graphic Design, Drama, and 
Fine Arts, he said. All the 
departments are involved in 
some aspect of the project. 
Lindsey adds, We feel that 
what were doing as a firm is 
looking to Hombostel and be
ing inspired by his work...we 
do feel that this project is one 
that comes around once in a 
lifetime.
Although many are very 
proud of the project, others are 
dismayed by the universitys 
undertaking to complete the 
niches.
I realize that Purnell gave 
the money for the niches, but 
the schools supplement of 
$250,000 could have been used 
for so many better purposes. 
This money could have been 
used especially in CFA, where 
they say they cant even afford 
to hire nude models for figure 
drawing in classes anymore, 
says sophomore CIT student 
Kim Berdy.
Rosenblatt responds that al
though the project may seem 
like a functionless aspect of 
the university, it does serve a 
purpose It educatesnot only 
students in the class room, but
everyone who passes by.
Other students questioned 
the use of outside of artisans 
instead of student sculptors to 
finish the niches. Stone is very 
unforgiving. If you make one 
wrong cut, its all over. So its 
essential that we have the best 
people working on this, says 
Rosenblatt.
However, he says CMU stu
dents have been involved with 
the project and will continue to 
be involved. Many architecture 
majors have already assisted 
Lindsey and Rosenblatt in 
measuring the proportions of 
the niches as well as drawing 
some initial designs. Other 
students will be able to work as 
apprentices with the stone 
carvers themselves.
For the most part, both stu
dents and faculty are pleased 
with the project. Katie Dowling, 
a sophomore fine arts major, 
says, I think its good that 
theyre finishing [the niches.] 
Im all for it. But it cant be 
completed as it was originally 
supposed to be because the 
original artists arent able'to 
complete their work. Someone 
else is finishing their work for 
them.
Both Rosenblatt and Lindsey 
hope to complete the niches in 
a style that honors Hornbostel 
as well as reflects contempo
rary architectural advances.
The expected completion date 
of the project is 1992. Hope
fully, students throughout the 
campus and members of the 
community will be able to view 
the completed niches and read 
the Latin inscription of 
CREARE, which means to 
create, over the main door and 
be inspired by it.
INFORMATION
SHARING
November 1st 
6:30 p.m.
Skibo Room 12
ON-CAMPUS
INTERVIEWS
November 2nd
Hewitt Associates
Rqwayton. CT  Boston. MA  Bedminster. NJ 
Lincolnshire. IL  Santa Ana. CA  Walnut Creek. CA 
Atlanta GA  Las Colinas. TX  The Woodlands. TX
courtesy Air force ROTC Detachment 730
At ease. President Posvar!
WmN TaNsb cUd shubCr /fbDC Ca Nmo.C" lhif xbgubNragw .hu phNRyw hgu 3bo xhrnbNw DNat hNgbomb 3bffagw 
hfago 2mC. Sa.g piuh hgu cmsF xbgubNrag DNat C.b 7gmIbNrmCy aD lmCCrRiNo.w hsC hr oimubOag RbhNbNr DaN C.b 
pbChs.tbgC 9|B shubC r:ihuNag uiNmgo .hfDCmtb hC C.b lmCCOGaCNb phtb ohtb JhCiNuhy gmo.Cv d.b WmN TaNsb 
shubCr hgu C.b lmCC thNs.mgo Rhgu nNbrbgCbu h .hfDOCmtb r.a2 mg .agaN aD pNv -brfby larIhNw NbCmNmgo nNbrmubgC 
aD C.b 7gmIbNrmCy aD lmCCrRiNo.v
Champs
on Forward A sports bar
5832 Forward Ave (Squirrel Hill) 
only minutes from campus
Monday 
10 cent Peel & Eat Shrimp 
Tuesday  Mexican Nite 
$1 Nachos  Mex Drink Specials 
Wednesday  Ladies Nite 
Special Discounts for Ladies
Thursday  Wing Nite 
25 cents Each  Pittsburgh's 
biggest, meatiest, and tastiest 
wings
An upscale saloon for an upscale university
H9
-iM
Kssfl
a
tss
A Unique Consulting Firm
Hewitt Associates
is visiting Carnegie Mellon
Hewitt Associates is an international firm of consultants and 
actuaries specializing in the design, financing, communication, 
and administration of employee benefit and compensation 
programs. We are included in the publications The 100 Best 
Companies to Work for in America and The Best Companies 
for Women.
We are interested in students with the following majors:
Economics 
Applied Mathematics 
or other 
Quantitative Majors
We look for people who are adaptable, creative, analytical, and 
intelligent: people who work well together. Our challenge is to 
identify and develop those people who can respond to the 
opportunities of today and tomorrow.
Pizza Outlet
Free Delivery
IS TF Q C iX IS ^Across from190 N. Craig IrilCp m Gulf station) 
OPEN 7 DAYS Sun-Thurs llam-lam Fri & Sat llam-2am
2 PIZZAS $5.99
2 T $7-99
No Coupon Necessary
O Large Q QA 
^ Pizzas V'VW
For Limited Time Only
OUR DOUGH IS MADE FRESH DAILY
Get ready for...
week
November 12-16
Brought to you by

---------------------------------------------------

1SENSE A 
PEEP LONGING 
IN THEIR PREAMS,
MiKE-A Itthi
nkah emoumIf 
ycl clbsyr
0NHI5
meuiF..
NEW MOON.
nmg.knkIgttdv
THE Br HME
TO LAUNCH AN 
OFFENSIVE 
OPERATION.
ire park,
MAN. I'VE 
NEVER SEEN 
IT 50 PARK!
Y0.5.P.?.. 
P.P.? YOU AWAKE?
I KNEW YOU UJERENT 
FROM A B!6 CITY. YOU 
CAN ALWAYS TELL THE 
BIG-CT1Y BOYS-SOME
THING IN THE MAY THEY WALK..
YOU KNOW A 
I WAS WONPERING 
ABOUT I 
THAT... }
AL50, THEY 
AU-60T 
"NO RADIO" 
5IGN5 ON 
THE1RTEMS.
WHERE YOU FROM 
ORIGINALLY, 
MAN?HUH?...
WHAT?THAT
RIGHT?
< OF COURSE 
NOT, PAY. AT 
MOO,1 CANT, 
6ET ENOUGH 
OF YOUR 
LIFE STOKYy
YO, I'M 
NGT BORING YOU, AMI. 
vMAN?
YOU KNOW HOW I 
5NP6P UP IN THE 
SERVICE, MAN? MY 
WIFE! SHE TALKED 
ME INTO ITSO ANYWAY, THEY TOLD ME TD 
6ET COMPUTE. TRAINING -AND 
I FEU, FORITI HELL, IHAVENT 
EVEN SEEN A COMPUTER SINCE 
IBNU5TED!
Y0JR3 NOT 
WSSr \ MISSING 
\ MUCH... j
YO, LETS GO RAY.6&T
LOOK. FOR SOME
ONE NOU, CJgpl
OKAY, MAN? '
mY! RAY! GIVE 
THE CHATIER A 
REST, WILLY A? 
THE PEST OF US 
i NEED SOME i PAMN SLEEP, , 
L. OKAY? A
HEY, COOL, 
MAN... IF 
THAT'S THE 
WAY YOU FEEL 
ABOUTIT...
501 GET 1 
THIS "TO 
ANY Sff VILE] 
PERSON 
LETTER,SS? \ 
AND ITS 
VERY IMJDIgt,b
YO, TURNS I 
OUT TT WAS 
FROM PUB
LISHERS I 
CLEARING 
HOUSE'J
THAT'S THE 
WAY I FEEL 
ABOUTIT! 
GOODNIGHT!
COJIO i y 
HWE 20 
DOLLARS?.
THAT CLOUD OF 
STARS IS OVJR 
GALm, TUE 
N1LK1 m. CWR 
SOLAR. S<STEN\\ 
IS OK THE 
EDGE OF IT.
WE HURL THROUGH AM 
I lHCS>MPftHENS\Bl DARKNESS. 
IN Q3SWCTERWS, WE ARE 
SUBATOtA\C PARTICLES IM 
A GRA\N OF SAND OU AU 
INFINTE SENCVl.
I'D JUST BEEN LAID OFF, AND I 
WAS GOING NOWHBRE 'REAL 
FAST, SO MY WIFE SENT AWAY 
FOR THESEARMY BROCHURES 
AND STARTED REAPING THEM 
TO ME OVER BREAKFAST...
d.b ThN Jmub by Gary Larson
Comics
*&hF pagHC bhC nhNrfby SirC DaN faaFr#
fhthr hC .atb
d.b ThN Jmub is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.xanbDif nhNbgCr
hfImg hgu xaRRbr by Bill Waterson
EVEMoHE TAKES ME 
FOR GRANTED/ HOBOD'i 
PAMS Am ATTENTION 
TO M NEEDS/
. 4 I*
C 2hr Daafmr. DaN cirrbff Ca hnnNahs. 
C.b .aNgbCrH gbrC g C.b DmNrC nfhsbw RiC .mr Cmtmgo 
2hr nhNCmsifhNfy Rhuv
hfImg hgu xaRRbr is a daily featuie in the Pittsburgh Press.paagbrRiNy is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post.Gazette.
paagbrRiNy by G. B. Trudeau
YOU KNOW, ITS ODD, MIKE. 
B.D. AND HIS BUDDIES ARE 
CNER \ZjOOO MILES AWAY, 
BJJTICAN FEELTHEJR VIBRA
TIONS AS STRONGLY AS IFTHEY 
WERE CDMtNF, \ _
FROM BUR-K
ANPNOMJTM ~ YOU  ,
5UPP0S5P Mg* Pi Lammho stfu
I XOHDER 
'NUATS ON 
TV
\S IT TOO MVJCW TO ASK 
POR AN OCCASIONAL 
TOKEN GESTJRE OF 
APPKOAT\ON?/
- SIGHS 
SURE, RAY, 
SURE, I 
CAN TEACH 
YOU.../
TSO, SUPPENLY I'M THINKING, , 
COOL, I'LL ENLIST. I'LL LEARN 
COMPUTERS, LLGETMONEY f 
.FOR COUE6E, RIGHT? RIGHT?J
YOU KNOW 
HOW TO USE 
A COMPUTER? 
HEY, CAN YOU 
TEACH ME 
HOW, MAN?
OK, \m ABOJT A B\G HUG?SEE?/ I DONT tAATVER 
TO ANSONE ! NOOD'f
CARES ABCWT ME !
WHERE YOU 
FROM?
SMALLTOWN 
 IN OHIO. YOU
WHAT NEVER HEARD 
TOWN7 OF IT.
I S\m FIRM IK NM BEUEF 
op WKf RI^UT/1 REFUSE 
TO CbfflfcWISE MY PRINCIPIES/

---------------------------------------------------

CAESAR ENGLAND by K. Michael Thomas
' JUST SO WE GET EVERYTHING SQUARE y BETWEEN US-X
rVE V (COLEBRKM A deNsI ignOtWHATI '"3EXPECT j; OUTOF THIS 1 n - / STRIP/"3- ' /
MSHe&l'F/xepvNO, fl/., 
Y/XZP*.. SOHetCAT Rsrmpuce.
THE NEW ENERGIZER! rr KEEPS GOING AND  
GOING AND GOINGI '
yipdt ^( ro acme ^ my me New,
m/namUKEWemeN.'
VM\ iPimu WA wr y\ HirKsvii
10SvJCtV"
TEU. THAT PINT' SIZED DESPOT HUSSEIN. IF HE EVER SHOWS HIS UGIY MUG IN HERE 1U DO THE SAME ]/ TO HIM
-men me m Fast?:. SfWZD... Nem^ec... ,
KEWHm-mrjewr.../twwr*STA&-
AND v 
GONE!
u OT rKcT o o c,M LcwK giaK nO CcRR TBL A fhSml y/ ms/ve \ 
1JK/6P-M/S
m1,0CRooiff*!
Hgyi I see a\ where?i ' 
Roc-K WITH A ) CAN'T SEE 
jTltef OM IT.y WITHOUT
 n ^rxiy uAaei!
OTo W -KRRl -pmORE 
^ YoU UKg 
Go OT WIITH Me?
Hmmm! WHAT^ ^ 
ol? 'ifeO 
HAVE IK) / / 
MIND?]
r <5ee, I psvofC 
THIS Me AMS OUR
'tetaponswp1$ ON TH
PANH/FAHS'S
/THAT'S /A KAUV Homnpjv Rb,Cc
/ Bar we comT^ HAV6k RELATION' ship/ we just MoRK Together'
2l2 )s Re ^
IMPoRTANTLY. we ' 
also Receivep this PHONe CALL ARounp 
THE TIME OF TH6 
WSAFPeAKAHCB.
...I Don'T > 
KNOW h/MYf I MEAN,
I ve A$KP tNs hI nN Be 
aSNkml vbI hI .bdI ^vr-/ SfTS THERE L 
S N^\ \ &ETTIN6 My/ffl\ pesK o/i.y^rANP APPRoXIMATELy Five MINUTES PRIOR 
.s MANt*JHIL..., LUCK \ 
&oPCrKS!.
PON'T C
/SHoRTUy AFTER > !<tUCK AMP TANYA
DISAPPEAREP, We 
\ RECEIVEP THIS ,\TPANSMlSSfONj
'/ UPoM INVESTIGATING-, 
/THE PUBLIC PHONE FRM 
7 WJHICH THAT CAU. WAS 
7 MAPe WAS FoUNP To HAVE 
' BEEN DeiTRoyCP 6V A 
BLAST6K. WE-ve -taken the , uieeery of engaging aV privat privatrAi>*..\ HE'LL Be HERE so OKI.
LKAfbeh)
IDFmxTD NwD Dgc-AHe 
STLL HASxJ'T CAlX.Hr
ns Mi5TAKj Joey 
BORft; U3HO DDfJT 
Grwow FRomThE 
mDJMlTN9SS 
A srjo*/r at CMU I
of Cao(S&{ (j^OeCal S^aCf>l6 
f$ foferneST e/feo i'n 
(XCmoceJ -faerte5 in his
AH T^e yenemiS afe rely inj 
liiS .yferf Sfill,/'^a^efP y
-pic CcdlopsTAe, M'Jemu&SV-pUi5 Joor 15 T^c CoY'feiencd
Ch^iec. Al The ivfofT**t o/#iT5 
of The JiV^jn a.f ,r* Thefe, /
wai+vna por Sftfch. s'
ilT5cZvnh^
y HE^J DUDE/ 
Nb SMOKIfvifr 0^ reofoVLISTES, rrs -tn O91). 0bBP  CiTitCW To SRemK CLtAto AIR. >AW STATIST 5HOU> 1H*T^CcMO(HAMO 3MOK6 CAW CAO^e. LJ/JC, 'CAfJCER. AMD >TS I.(.<AL. T f 5Mot /JCAMP05 BUlLOIi<iSH< .
/ CfolUpS.HNH.HhH!..
RELAX fW-. DOfw" 
HAVE A 5fR0X. U. POT VT o-'T
MOul UHM* 
HE CR^(JG A0OJT?f.?'Co<jrS, Secvohy 5 i/ery
*fteyV< got a Of CvafJS
f^ac/y io S^o.T an) IrwruJer u/bo 
Salies THr^h T^'5 of Gurj,.
^y i^cwj wkaT joo toot It'&t SirHAR 11 OH, I THOU&HT BOO
jwtrcK MgAMi BnitJc* 'fo^P0^^ -T/f'1
TMg Of eoftfl Z^RE PRQvXjHT -to iOU v/|CDR1TAS, uj;

---------------------------------------------------

Nw, Su>6TfiRc4teT, Youfl. 
sPoiwry is m rv&wmwoOP ADWCRU6 SoKTAMCtS 
and infwv\ti[WA(_ VlFjl$tV
,BolU> CN TD Tflt EXACT CK/6N 
T'Ut 6WfP ISO.' OWCTT-V/
Tt> CDWlSW. 
AU-THfc
M&mi,
uwm!
IND66D/fmU.m JrfH 
&?*
fcft/tt taA FH&onDuei 
WITH SJ*TPRpPHT'S 
New V/(PS, AUD THM 
to ojrro we party 
W'PPRAH"a sir/
NoRTHfRePHer, 
esthetic r 
Grg)g,a4
FKPSOYTiZlWi AW COt-)V)eflX[U6 ibR.TH HltHTtlDDiUii fZU(blOs'- FKM=iT4&i:
AxP wHftr ^ pbs KylU 'A>/
I| DOMfe
Ti TO td STeH -mis? /
I Just UKt jR6 
F6SUW6 OF 
WT fWTS
I MY V6M! A
yirrtJU*
jpjy aue
< rn TCAr * 
rms is a Roio 
tflflr 'rfxjftt con' rl TiW/ /^
-J DON'T 
W^T-TDO >J6 /
VJT FBmtS we A IMfWTAfJT p/VJT CF MmURIV. E.ypf?liNC^ Tne Feet-IMib ISCAV, IF N3T S=DS)i5
lUci-L , gooiP 
UIJ 50 MlLLIOlJ Pou.ms pao 
fbd-iiHCTt'S 
yfcuSE ^wsri-PSC'flkES'
Mod ,5i-/ol t-p 
2e ftoPP^, Ar 
L-64SC
v(AlIB A CoMi^
: x3g3) Jo uPjfc , ->5r
$M05ir 4t>(Jer A 5i-l<*o TV ?
But: x
hHQ\
Wert, it could've been on>jt^:A^,
Seeing vjou. We f\o or*i or le^s 
be? brexegcourser\ou->.
No-ffl/iMi Nt yteT _> 
tOM\T KVccKEh b 
kfe^^Of/7, AVYWV:
UJHA-T?!
NDERCOVER
1^ tTAR.- S^A>4<iCE.C>
Z PEATH CtACHtZ., you AK-E THE rAOSn~s'OLfcn-r s-hjoeWt-a* c-a^Pxjs., >^c> 
-THEfZE^Fcpae I coHM'-S-Siovi vco A-s. A 
SFe^iAt. A66i4-r TO IviM&'STV&Kre' eAMPvJSffcOCg ER^I&flCV VOTVA C&jMZJ? TO PVZAT- m>TED .rizjME-s.. -yfao aGv .s o>s.>ov^e 
. VOOE5EUP NCA. zeetc AslD ew- SAi&e \h "oemvaht genAM <=*.//
V&kW. SP ii O'tJ^ei cartoonist. 
/"Sur... but... riFLL, EVEW^V
V^AY HAb%OOA\ HAD \
~ SUDQL-tiBSli)
No arrns. NJ J ie.^s. NJo-t even A
~borso. Vou're \uA a^c-ce,. Mr. CWdeq
1, (../&T /}I.Ll~flE\x
o '/STRIPS-.V 'i'HEY... J
> A*16Ycs^st
TilS NBC I
m&ttlins 
I of frfl-6 1 
Amsri&an
/luifer^'5,ntrceJoczo

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

fiSNNP AMO PA5W^3l
' To kt*
r^STio #*
-de \i&\\i
CoiTU^rI bTT^ 
/WtOPBPMV JOie. 60lf\ 
6Er -lAO:, HC2E, MxTWWfe)
V he wmi^ amp vlAkie J
MiWE...
FlZ-IPAV KJt&UT. 
LATE. LOM&OAV.Tmbb5o 2.bmAuu 
LATE FOP-A^KIPAV; 
LOKJ6 PAV, MOM.
\ fJo LEAPS?
' ...THEUSU&L. N 
uee THiUfo, mhp:o/ JOE, \
ijtoo REAP MV 
v fAlUt?. >
hi&huv 1 DVR4sogcv
^ VoO POM T 
HAVE TO LEAVE: 
cd AiJvrwiKjfo.
pf^.eAT/Ni'Me? ^ ^MrppAUjrro go)6 
TALKJtf'AWP... 
\... CA&KR^QJAdJ^uJUAr'*.
rr.AgeEA^?
TELLVAl^Hfl-..
' iniArr A LhxbIl 
1iEEz4 B EBELun 
UjKcL nTcno o' -X v=uy4hJ'^ 
HATE 61&AJ2S!'x XUblSrT!
52 Draws 23 Gherkin kin
57 1962 Elvis hit 24 Scandinavian
(3 wds.) capital
60 Car gauge 25 Song or songstress
61 Fit to be tied 26 Broadway musical
62 1985 film, 27 Registered -------
"St. -------'s Fire" 28 Wrath
63 Having oomph 29 Defied
64 Taunted 30 Language
65 "Break ------!" peculiarity
31 College in New York
32 German portDOWN 37 Like most colleges'
1 Bathroom 38 "Woe is me!"
2 Margarine 39 Despite, for short
3 Prejudice 41 "West Side Story"
4 Do post office character
work 42 Frost's "I Gave
5 Japanese drama Them a ---"
6 Cadets of Colorado 44 With humor
Springs 45 The fourth -------
7 Certain leader, 46 Like some lines
for short 49 Switch positions
8 Sweet ----- 50 Debauchee
9 Word in JFK phrase 51 Holly
10 "...it's ------ know" 52 Pequod's skipper
11 Table d'------- 53 --------------code
12 River to the Elbe 54 Prison part
13 Colloids 55 Domesticate
18 End-of-letter 56 Component of L.A.
word air
19 Like a steeplechase 58 Hairpiece
course 59 Prefix for cycle
saffb;omhCbsNarr2aNu
ACROSS
1 Positions 
5 Letter on a key 
10 Tory opponent
14 Mishmash
15 Buenos -------
16 Socks
17 1956 Elvis hit 
(2 wds.)
20 Questionable 
remedies
21 Lookers
22 Luau music-maker
23 Dumbbell
25 1963 Elvis hit 
(3 wds.)
33 ------- tower
34 Cohort
35 Headlight setting
36 Evening, in news
papers
37 Monte -------
39 Even
40 Dined
41 Mr. Porter
42 G1istened
43 1958 Elvis hit 
( 2 wds.)
47 Disencumbers
48 "Barney Miller"
actor, Jack ------
49 Celestial hunter
These are the 
answers to last issuers puzzle.
Edward Julius Collegiate CW8820

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
CMU Philharmonic 
welcomes violinist
Josef Gingold doesnt live up to reputation
Tad Dockstader/Tartan Photo Editor
virtuoso Josef Gingold makes a wish during his 81st birthday bash.
BY MARNIBOREK
Tartan Staffwriter
From the beginning of mankind, 
music has been a form of expres
sion. Such great legends as 
Mozart, Beethoven, Bach, and 
Brahms have enriched our lives 
with the sweet sounds of their 
compositions. In our modern 
times, a chosen few continue to 
instill this music within us. The 
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic 
Orchestra, in its collaborative 
performance with renowned vio
linist Josef Gingold this past 
Thursday night at Carnegie Hall, 
proved to be one of those chosen 
few.
It is a challenge in todays com
petitive music world to perform 
well-known concertos. Because an 
audience is more likely to recog
nize the piece, it will be thus in
clined to compare the performance 
of the group to another that has 
performed the same work. The 
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic, 
under the dynamic direction of 
Juan Pablo Izquierdo, showed 
much professionalism in per
forming the popular Concerto for 
Violin in G Major by Amadeus 
Mozart, The Suite from the 
Threepenny Opera by Kurt Weill, 
and the Concerto for Four Violins 
and Orchestra in B Minor by An
tonio Vivaldi.
In the performance of Mozarts 
Concerto in G Major, one wit
nessed the incredible talent of 
Andres Cardenes, the associate 
professor of violin studies at 
Carnegie Mellon and concertmaster of the Pittsburgh Sym
phony Orchestra. Like the leg
endary Itzchak Perlman, 
Cardenes enhanced his playing 
with his enthusiasm and unique 
style. In the segments of the work 
where there is the somewhat te
dious task of reaching the high 
pitches, he did not have any dif
ficulty; his fingers fell correctly 
into place on the fingerboard of 
the violin. The orchestra, espePlease see GINGOLD, page L17Palace serves up an unsavory story
By MARK ROCES
Tartan Staffwriter
Ray Bradbury, the author of 
uch entertaining thrillers as 
Something Wicked This Way 
Monies, The Martian Chronicles, 
and Farenheit 451, has come out 
with another, but only somewhat 
thrilling novel, A Graveyard for 
Lunatics.
The story takes place in Holywood during the 50s. At a time 
hen horror movies abound, the 
Parrator is hired by Maximus 
guns as a screenwriter, and be
anies entangled in a horror story 
f his own. He has received an 
nonymous invitation to go to the 
Taveyard on Halloween, at midpfht. What he sees is the fright!nng sight of a dead body, frozen 
n the act of climbing over the 
'all which separates the cemetery 
jom the film studio. Even more 
arming is that the body is that 
L Charles Arbuthnot, one time 
pad and genius of Maximus 
I ms, who died in a car crash on 
Jalloween night, 1934.
Thenarrator relates the story
s clse friend and co-worker, 
y Holstrom. Roy is the studios 
Pecial effects man, and is workS* the narrator to create a 
sast for the studios latest hor31 ick. Soon, he gets an anonyJi>us invitation to go to the Brown ferby.
-What Roy. and the narrator find
 Book Review 
??? A GRAVEYARD FOR LUNA
TICS. By Ray Bradbury.
is a man whom they dub the 
Beast, whose face is severely 
disfigured. Taking advantage in 
the mans ghastly ugliness, Roy, 
in a fit of inspiration, decides to 
fashion the beast of his movie 
after the image of the Beast. Mys
teriously, this does not go over 
well with Manny Leiber, the stu
dio head, who fires Roy.
And this is where the true 
horror begins, starting with Roys 
disappearance and apparent 
murder. The narrator finds him
self wrapped up in a mystery 
where everyone is either scared 
out of their wits, or dead.
The novel itself reads like one 
of those movies of long ago, with 
everyone possessive of a sharp 
tongue and quick wit. This works 
rather well for such characters as 
the flamboyant Fritz Wong, whose 
spitfire attitude and colorful 
speech do much to flavor the novel. 
But this flavor soon becomes too 
overpowering as everyone unloads 
a barrage of zingers; and, a once 
witty and fast paced dialogue soon 
grinds into a monotone of obnox
ious and somewhat unrealistic 
chatter. Indeed, the characters 
seem as though they are caught
Ray Bradbury never lets the action 
for Lunatics.
in a malicious version of a Bob 
Hope special. To his credit, 
Bradbury does manage to keep 
the narrators character from be
coming hidden in the extravagant 
parade.
The narration seems to follow 
the same path. At first it is rather 
wonderful and descriptive. 
Theres a nice passage in the be
ginning of the novel where the 
narrator contrasts the graveyard 
with the neighboring studio. But, 
perhaps because the narrator is 
spending so much time with the 
other spastic tongue wavers, soon 
enough, the only thing which dis
tinguishes the dialogue from the 
narration are quotation marks.
This is a novel about the mov
ies, however. Indeed, this novel is
i nomas victor/oiaau Aiirea Ao Knopr 
stop in his latest novel, A Graveyard
a movie itself, an old fifties thriller. 
The suspense, once under way, 
only slows long enough for you to 
catch your breath before it all 
starts up again. There are the 
classic scary encounters in the 
dark, and almost mandatory 
chase scenes between victim and 
Beast.
Running at the same pace is 
the plot itself, which, through the 
deductions and assumptions of 
the narrator, takes as many turns 
as there are tombstones in the 
graveyard. Although it is not dif
ficult to. figure out the identity of 
the Beast and his motives, the 
ending will do much to startle you 
as would finding unearthed 
corpses one Halloween night in a 
graveyard... for lunatics.
By JAVI GRELLOMARXUACH
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
It used to be that if one could 
only stay up until 12:30 am or so 
and switch on the television, one 
would find the National Anthem 
playing and then retreat into the 
never-never land of test patterns 
and static.
However, times have changed, 
and in order to stay competitive 
with cable television and to create 
a greater sense of mystery around 
the National Anthem, many local 
stations have gone twenty-fourhours, making every available 
second of the day as full of tele
vised enjoyment as possible.
One of these stations which of
fers the viewer large variety of 
late night enjoyment is Channel 
11 (NBC), whose main staple of 
programs seems to consist of 
prime time reject game shows and 
infomercials.
And now its time for... The Quiz 
Kids Challenge! The first of four 
game shows presented during the 
2 am  4 am slot. This show is 
based on an old show simply called 
The Quiz Kids, however, because 
this is a much, more fast paced 
era, the word challenge was 
added to make the title more so
phisticated. Its the same general 
rule of thumb which led a popular 
show to be retitled Challenge of 
the Go-Bots.
The host (they dont say The 
Star anymore. After all, there 
hasnt been a star in game shows 
since Jack Barry died) of The Quiz 
Kids Challenge is Jonathan 
Prince, who bears as close a re
semblance to the bastard child of 
Michael J. Fox and Joan Rivers 
as anybody really should.
The show explores the eternal 
question of experience versus 
youth. Oddly enough, the adults 
in this show (Richard, an engineer 
from Tokyo; Monica, an English 
teacher; arid Mike, an attorney 
from Los Angeles who looks like 
the guy you see losing cases in 
traffic court in LA. Law) are all 
the more awkward and geeky 
looking than the children, par
ticularly when they get the an
swers right. Every time they an
swer a question correctly the 
adults get this gimme a cookie 
look. Every time the children get 
a question right, they look as if 
they are only marking time on the 
way to designing that new 
spreadsheet.
Th place at which both ages 
converge occurs when a particu
larly hard question is asked 
(What is the name of the dent 
between the nose and the lips?). 
If this is the situation, both young 
and old alike adopt that fingerdrumming, upward looking, Itsin-the-back-of-my-mind-wait-Iknow-this-one-why-didnt-youPlease see LATE NIGHT, page L17
Graveyard 2mff rbC 
yaiN nifrb Nhsmgo
Doze off with some 
late night TV shows
JASON McDONALD
Sports Editor
One of Hollywoods favorite plots, the 
opposites attract love story, came back 
;o haunt moviegoers this week with the 
release of White Palace. Despite superb 
jerformances by James Spader and Su
san Sarandon in the starring roles, a 
un-of-the-mill script sandbags the film, 
naking White Palace a tragic disap
pointment.
James Spader plays Max Baron, a St. 
jouis advertising exec whos living with 
-he ghost of his wife Janey, killed in a car 
accident two years earlier. Stopping off 
it a bar after a friends bachelor party, 
le meets Nora Baker (Sarandon).
Nora is the classic wrong side of the 
tracks woman; she lives in the bad part 
)f town and works as a waitress at the 
ocal White Palace (a.k.a. White Castle) 
estaurant. Max eventually caves in to 
jivingNoraaridehome, and the romance
underway.
Max and Nora go along smoothly for a 
vhile; but what would any good romance 
story be without problems? The conflict 
irises from the fact that Max is afraid 
|ora wont mesh with the rest of his life; 
iherefore, he tries to sneak off to social 
ivents without letting Nora know, while 
reatingexcuses for his friends, who want
 Movie Review 
?? WHITE PALACE. A retelling of the 
classic "opposite attract" love story. This 
time its between a young powerful adver
tising exec and an older "wrong side of the 
tracks" waitress. Starring James Spader 
and Susan Sarandon.
to meet the mystery woman in his life. 
Finally, faced with the prospect of losing 
Nora, Max caves in and invites her to 
Thanksgiving dinner with friends and 
relatives.
Surprise, surprise ... the dinner goes 
awfully; Nora comes in spoiling for a 
fight and naturally gets into one. This 
convinces Nora that she doesnt belong 
in Maxs life, so she runs away. Max tries 
to get on with his life, but (youll never 
guess), he comes to the realization that 
hes as much out of place in his own life 
as Nora is, so he hunts her down to tell 
her he loves her. Cue the music, break 
out the Kleenex.
As I mentioned before, the acting in 
White Palace is the high point of the 
movie. Spaders character is similar to 
others hes played in his detached, morose 
attitude. The character of Max almost
immediately made me think of Graham 
from sex, lies, and videotape, with a 
yuppie twist. Sarandon also did a great 
job, but I actually found her character 
too abrasive to believe that Max would 
actually be attracted to her. Eileen 
Brennan plays a key supporting role as 
Noras sister, Judy. Judy gives Max in
sight on his relationship with Nora when 
she comes to visit, and she makes it 
possible for Max to track down Nora in 
New York at the end of the film. Spaders 
friends are boring and annoying, but 
theyre supposed to be, so it works.
The other problem, aside from the 
cookie-cutter script, was the annoying 
tendency to bring up all sorts of questions 
and leaving them hanging on the fringe 
of the script. A vivid example  Noras 
son Charlie committed suicide when he 
was 14, but the writers didnt bother 
exploring Noras past at all. Another 
example is that Max apparently used to 
be a teacher, but its never explained 
why he quit teaching for advertising; it 
seems the writers just wanted to further 
prove that Max was a deeper person 
than the people he was surrounded by.
At any rate, if youre in the mood to see 
Sarandon or Spader &t work and can 
ignore a dog of a script, White Palace is 
worth a look. If youre actually worried 
about a sensible plot, youre out of luck.
Jean Pagliuso/1990 Universal City Studios Inc. 
James Spader and Susan Sarandon get comfy in White Palace.

---------------------------------------------------

M1d.b dhNChg 8 hNgbomb 3bffag 8 $z UsCaRbN MzzB
Carry an entire continent in your pocket
If video games were cars, then 
role playing games would prob
ably be considered the Rolls Royce 
of the video game genre. Role 
playing games are usually the 
biggest, the most complex, the 
most rewarding, and the most ad
dictive games that can be found 
on the market today.
However, they have never really 
translated to the video game sys
tems successfully over the years. 
With a lack of a keyboard it is 
very hard to play a game on a 
video game system which even 
comes close to the complexity, 
scope, and depth found in just the 
average role playing game found 
on the computer.
Add the fact that most video 
game players are teens, or even 
preteens, who have a short at
tention span and just want a quick 
fix; a game that will satisfy them 
in a couple, or perhaps at most, a 
dozen hours.
A computer role playing game 
usually takes a few dozen hours 
before it even starts to get inter
esting, let alone solvable (which 
usually takes several hundred 
hours).
Over the years a few good role 
playing games have come out on 
the video game systems. The 
Legend of Zelda was an enter
taining game, and the added sur
prise that it was really two games 
in one was a nice touch. Dragon 
Warrior had cute graphics and 
sound, but no puzzle solving. And 
I have to admit that Phantasy Star 
was by far one of the best role 
playing games I have ever played.
Now , with the advent of hand 
held video game systems such as 
Gameboy and Lynx, role playing 
games have taken a new turn 
that even computer games cant 
touch: portability.
Just imagine having the ability 
to' pull a Gameboy out of your 
pocket and start playing a great 
role playing game during one of
PRESS START
by Stephen Glicker
your many boring lectures. The 
mere thought of being able to do 
this makes me look forward to 
attending classes.
Well, the wait is over. A yearand-a-half after Gameboy hit the 
shelves, the very first portable 
role playing game appeared, en
titled The Final Fantasy Legend.
Now, I would have had a review 
of it for you; however, my good 
friend and role playing game 
junkie Clint Jackson started 
playing my version of Final Fan
tasy Legend early Saturday 
morning and has not stopped 
playing it in the last twelve hours 
or so (a good sign in itself).
So, here to tell you all about 
Final Fantasy Legend is Clint 
(that is, after I manage to get that 
stupid Gameboy out of his grasp).
Even though the instruction 
book says that the object of the 
game is to get to the top of some 
huge Great Tower, passing 
through four different worlds 
along the way, and beating up as 
many monsters as possible, the 
real object, as in any other role 
playing game, is just to finish.
You start the game off with a 
party of three types of races: hu
mans, the most well-rounded 
characters in the game; mutants, 
characters which start off physi
cally weaker than others but can 
operate magic; and monsters, 
characters which are fairly limited 
(they cant use magic or weapons) 
but do have the ability to trans
form into monsters of another 
form and can usually do a lot of
damage in battle.
Once a character is a member 
of your party, the only way you 
can remove him or her (or it) is by 
death. However, each character 
has three lives, so even when one 
of your party dies, you dont have 
to run over to the local guild to 
trade the cadaver in for a new 
character. Instead, you just have 
to find a House of Life and bring 
that character back to life. You 
can also buy extra lives once you 
have the money.
One interesting feature found 
in this game is unlike any role 
playing game I can remember  
you dont have experience points. 
Instead, just about everything 
centers around the amount of gold 
you have.
With humans, your hit points 
and attributes can only be in
creased by buying potions and 
drinking them. Mutants increase 
their hit points and attributes 
through time and experience (the 
more battles you fight). And 
monsters hit points and at
tributes are dependent on the type 
of creature they currently repre
sent.
You start the game off in the 
base of the Great Tower, in the 
village of Base Town. Inside the 
town one can find the standard 
role playing game fare. Theres a 
weapon shop, an armor shop, an 
inn, a resurrection center, and 
lots of people walking around just 
dying to give you information.
Outside of the villages walls 
can be found the world of Conti
nent. A fairly large world (around 
ten Gameboy screens high and 
wide) that consists mostly of 
mountains, trees, and rivers. 
There are also three castles and a 
bandits lair, as well as a very 
important statue to be found on 
the world of Continent.
As you climb up the Great 
Tower your party has to explore 
the world of Ocean, the world of
Sky, and the world of Ruins. Each 
is just as large as the world of 
Continent and contains its own 
puzzles and mysteries.
Now, what would a role play
ing game be without evil monsters 
to battle? Well Final Fantasy 
Legend is no exception.
When you encounter an enemy 
monster you get to choose from 
two basic decisions  fight or 
run? Running away seems to work 
most of the time, except when you 
encounter a really difficult mon
ster, in which case you might have 
a hard time trying to escape.
If you choose the fight option, 
each of your characters gets to 
choose a method of attack and 
which enemy they wish to attack. 
However, when it comes to the 
actual combat itself, there is a lot 
which has to be mentioned.
Right off the bat, one of the 
biggest pains in the neck during 
combat is that fact that you can 
only use a weapon a certain 
amount of times (usually fifty) 
before it runs out and disappears. 
So after you swing that sword of 
yours fifty times, whether or not 
you hit or missed, it will disappear 
and you have to buy a new one. 
Over time you get used to this fact 
and just carry a lot of extra 
weapons.
Another big pain is the fact 
that no matter what type of 
monster you kill (from really hard 
to super easy), you receive the 
same amount of gold pieces for
courtesy Square
each monster killed. In all my 
years I have never seen a role 
playing game in which you get 
the exact same amount of gold 
pieces for each monster killed. 
Again, you get used to it.
On the plus side, each weapon 
has its own sound effect and 
graphic when it hits. For example, 
the sub-machine-gun makes a 
rat-tat-tat sound and draws a 
big z made of bullets onto the 
group of enemies, while a sword 
makes a swish sound and draws 
a slash. This might not sound like 
much, but it really helps break up 
the monotony encountered dur
ing combat.
I could go on and go into depth 
on other aspects found in Final 
Fantasy Legend, such as the dif
ferent types of weapons, armor,
items, and magic spells, but itl 
would take me forever (the ru]e 
booklet alone is 79 pages long) 
However, I will mention some of 
the nice little features which make 
this game great.
Having the ability to change: 
the message speed, the order ofthe party, and being able to save 
the game at any point in time 
(expect during combat) is really 
nice. Also, the graphics are clear 
well drawn, and easy on the ey^ 
Also well done is the music. Each"' 
city has its own melody, and fully 
uses the stereo capabilities found' 
in the Gameboy.
Overall, Final Fantasy Legend' 
is a really good role playing game 
despite the fact that its in black 
and white and on the Gameboy.1 
Its sort of like playing a miniature 
version of Phantasy Star.
For the final evaluation, on a 
scale of one to ten, I give the 
graphics a seven, the sound and 
music a eight, the playability 
nine, and the originality a five! 
Overall I give The Final Fantasy 
Legend an eight.
Thank you Clint. Tune in next 
week and find out if I manage tff 
get my Nintendo working (it broke'" 
over the weekend), and if Clint 
fails out of school because of this', 
silly role playing game.
Tartan Diversions Editor 
Stephen Glicker is still tringtoget 
Glint out of his apartment and get' 
that Gameboy out of his grasp.
BEFORE YOU CAN FOLLOW YOUR DREAMS, YOU'VE GOT 10 FOLLOW THE RULES.
Men who don't register with Selective Service aren't eligible 
for federal student aid, job training, and most federal employ
ment. So register at the post office within a month of yoOr 18th 
birthday. It only takes five minutes to fill out a simple card.
Register With Selective Service.
It's Quick. It's Easy. And It's The Law.
lie t*rvicr of iKii publication.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling and 
Student Development 
Center 
268-2922
CONTACT Pittsburgh 
782-4023
Drug Connection 
854-0700
Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30 am - 
5 pm. For after Hours emergencies when 
the office is closed, call the Center.
An answering service operator will reach a 
counselor on call.
24- hour telephone counseling, crisis 
intervention, and supportive listening.
An Alcohol/Drug crisis hotline. 5-9pm.
Counseling and Student Development Center, 
a Division of Student Affairs
WERE MORE THAN A MAILBOX!
 Private Mailbox Rental...24 hour access  UPS, DHL, Overnight Letters
computer  Office Supplies  Photocopies Packing and Shipping  Passport Photos, etc.... Business Cards  FAX Service
We specialize in packing and shipping 
________computers worldwide________
Postal Business and Communication Services
AM1L BOXES ETC. USA
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 687-6100 CONVENIENTLY LOCATED NEAR FORBES AVENUE * CARNEGIE MUSEUM
\
"The African Tradition of the Griot
Saturday, October 27,1990 
4:00 pm - 7:00 pm 
Carnegie Mellon Fine Arts 
Alumni Concert Hall
Featuring the talents of:
Tony Miles and the Mobites 
Windspirit Movement
Sponsored by Division of Student Affairs in conjunction with AB Special Events

---------------------------------------------------

d.b dhNChg 8 hNgbomb 3bffag 8 $z UsCaRbN MzzBMP
hFb h nfigob mgCa C.b 2aNfu aD mgubnbgubgC satmsr
remember a long time ago 
jen the X-Men were the top 
lers in the market; they had a 
culation of something close to
0 000 a month. Nowadays, 
jter/artist Todd McFarlanes 
erpretation of Spiderman is 
eraging a circulation of 2.2 mil&per month! Regardless of the 
ality of the book, the bottom
is that the exposure that 
iderman is getting is bound to 
jd some light on books that 
Id otherwise be hidden in the 
i^dow of ignorance, 
n spite of the McFarlane far
ce, a lot of books are still left 
kin the cold, mostly because 
,y are poorly promoted and ofhard to find. These comics 
ne not from the two major comic 
)k corporations, but alternate 
npanies, who put out more exisive books on an irregular 
sis. The combination of these
IflOU mixes 
ast shows 
jr an even 
lend
A. FRANKLIN WHEELER
rtan Staffwriter
VIOUhas been compared to Si. 
where. Its dangerous to comre a new show to a program 
rt was loved by many and woripped by a few, because a gullviewer goes in expecting too 
(ch. Such was the case with 
s new series, set at television 
thon WNDY in a fictional large 
\ (one which sounds an awful 
jjlike Chicago).
he reasons for the compari(s are obvious. St. Eligius (St. 
6where)is a down-on-its-luck 
fcital. WNDY (WIOU) is a 
yn-on-its-luck television stai, but the comparisons should
1 there. St. Elsewhere was alst like family, with deep charers we really cared about. The 
rracterizations in WIOU seem 
$er to L.A. Law  a lot of basily unlikeable characters with 
moral standards, with only a 
(exceptions.
Also, in L.A. Law, a major 
peter dies in the first scene, 
hose with good memories may 
all Cheneys untimely death in 
'L.A. Law pilot.) Here, its an 
rtfior (actually an institution). 
$ tone of the show is set when 
Ted Baxter look-alike colpses during the ad break on the 
te news. Headstrong reporter 
tfie Bock takes advantage of 
sgolden opportunity, grabbing 
script from the dead mans 
and delivering the news 
ile two staffers perform CPR 
he background.
^hisis also the first event at the 
jtion that new WNDY news diror Hank Zaret witnesses. Of 
frse, the news is more good 
[n bad: the ratings were low, 
jthey shot up when Bock took 
}r after the collapse! The hype 
a new anchor might be just 
| thing this station needs.
aret started as an intern at 
jY and quickly moved up in 
[6 television world. His reason 
success? Wink Martindale. 
:s right  as he says, If the 
F8 has a popular lead-in, then 
3 news is popular, and the news 
fetor is popular. He made it
COMIC RELIEF
by Waseem Hussain
two factors, along with the fact 
that they lack a familiar seal, 
makes them unattractive to the 
majority of comic book readers.
The independents are prob
ably the most vulnerable of all 
comics to ugly labels. They sit 
there on the shelves attracting 
labels like fly paper. But even 
though deformed labels are what 
keeps the general public away 
from independents, there is a far 
more sinister problem.
Imagine trying to start watchTelevision Review 
WIOU. Wednesday at 10 pm, chan
nel 2 (CBS). Flashy drama set at 
struggling TV station WNDY. Star
ring John Shea, Helen Shaver, Har
ris Yulin, Phil Morris, Mariette 
Hartley, Kate McNeil, Wallace 
Langham, Jayne Brook, and Dick 
Van Patten.
all the way to New York City 
before being fired after he went 
too far to get a good story. So now 
hes back at WNDY, trying to turn 
around a news program thats 
considered to be doing well if its 
tied for fourth place with Mr. Ed 
reruns.
It just so happens that Zarets 
old girlfriend, Kelby Robinson, is 
a reporter at WNDY. In the pre
miere, she gets the coveted an
chor position vacated by the old 
guy . mainly because of an on
screen fight she had with co-an
chor Neal Frazier. The viewers 
loved it. Frazier is an ex-network 
anchor whose star has fallen, but 
he still commands over a million 
dollars, a year. This man is a total 
scumbag: self-centered, domi
neering, and sexist  which is 
probably why he made it to the 
network in the first place.
Bock, the man who would be 
anchor, is ruthless and uncaring, 
and will do anything to get a story. 
Basically, a young version of Neil 
Frazier. And Taylor Young is a 
sexy young reporter who wants 
Kelbys job and will do just about 
anything to get it. Hyperactive
ing Twin Peaks now if you havent 
been following it from the begin
ning. Its a terrific show and no
body questions its quality. But to 
try to turn it on right now and to 
understand the subtle nuances of 
the show (like the traffic light 
swaying in the wind) would be 
pretty impossible. Not only is the 
complexity of the story-line a turn
off for new viewers, but so is the 
stink of arrogance that pervades 
from those who are cool enough 
to have been following it from the 
beginning.
This phenomenon is especially 
aggravated in independent com
ics because of the aura of arro
gance that exudes not from the 
people who buy the books, but 
from the company that publishes 
the books. Those unfamiliar with 
the books tend to feel like out
siders, feel they missed the boat a 
longtime ago, and that essentially
My Place on Carson
PASTA  STIR-FRY  SANDWICHES
BEER  WINE  SPIRITS
com  andoafreiaxed atmosphere, 
in Pittsburgh s historic Sont I Side
2017 E. CarsonSouth Side431-9290
they are expendable.
Its not really the fault of the 
creators, its just that their books 
have taken on a life of their own, 
and to try to make them acces
sible to new readers constantly 
might compromise the quality of 
the book. Its a vicious circle really, 
or rather a vicious hole.
Picture this: Under a lonely 
night sky a couple of ambitious 
miners start digging a ditch in 
the middle of an Arizona desert. 
They tear away at the cactus and 
tumbleweed and find themselves 
descending into a hole, with only 
the heavens to light their way. 
The path down is twisted and 
rocky, but in the end the duo find 
layers upon layers of gold. They 
look upwards, but theyre so far 
down, so isolated, that no one will 
ever know what theyve found. 
They cry for attention from the 
bottom of the moonlit pit, but no
one hears them save the coyotes. 
Pretty soon, a sand storm comes 
by and fills up the pit with sand 
and rodent skeletons.
After a few months a cactus
grows over their desert tomb. They 
say that on Halloween, under a 
full moon, that cactus points its 
arms down and wails Thars gold 
down here, but no one listens 
save the coyotes. Thats the kind 
of mess independent comic books 
creators are in these days. If the 
shovel-wielding public dont make 
the effort to search for funny look
ing cactii, then one of the richest 
resources in comicdom will be 
buried underneath a ton of illiter
ate sand granules. Independent 
comics cannot live long without 
reader support; if they lose, we all 
lose. Make an effort; break a sweat 
yall! Dig deep for the buried trea
sure of. the literary world, inde
pendent comics!
Yahoo!
Tartan Senior Staffwriter 
Waseem Hussain is a junior biol
ogy major.
Johnny Clegg speaks to all ages
college intern Willis Teitlebaum 
has good news sense  but hes 
still got that pesky conscience 
telling him whats right and 
wrong. Plus, hes in love with a 
nervous young producer who ap
parently got into the business 
because she thought it would be 
like WJM of Mary Tyler Moore 
Show fame. Boy, is she in for a 
surprise.
Rounding out the major cast 
(there are a lot of characters) are 
the two biggest names in the show. 
Mariette Hartley is executive 
producer Liz McVay, who has seen 
countless news directors come and 
go. She wants Zarets job but will 
probably never get it because she 
cares too much about the people 
she works with. And Dick Van 
Patten is zany weatherman Floyd 
Graham, very popular with se
nior citizens (sound familiar?).
Ratings are worshipped here 
above all else, including friend
ship. There are a couple of people 
who actually seem to care, to want 
to show compassion; they are ei
ther ignored or urged to change 
by the other characters.
This show is promising. The 
actings good, and the writing is 
bearable (although certainly not 
up to par with Elsewhere or Law). 
Before it can be compared to St. 
Elsewhere, though, the stories 
have to be stronger and at least 
some of the characters more sym
pathetic. Its possible; there are 
strong, definite characters that 
just need more development.
Keep your eye on WIOU; CBS 
just might have a hit with this 
one.
By ALLISON DURAZZI
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
While pop culture would have 
many believe that our generation 
is full of ourselves, every once in a 
while a music artist creates an 
album that outshines this 
thought. Johnny Clegg and 
Savuka are currently this beacon 
with their latest album, Cruel, 
Crazy, Beautiful World.
Full of political ideologies, the 
album comes on strong with the 
first song, One (Hu)Man One 
Vote, a song about the assassi
nation of a friend and colleague 
and anti-apartheid activist. The 
lyrics are subtle; they touch on 
both the poignancy of the death of 
a friend (The soul inside the spark 
that gives breath/... Can no longer 
be made to hide/These things come
 Record Review 
??? CRUEL, CRAZY, BEAUTIFUL 
WORLD. By Johnny Clegg and 
Savuka.
to us by way of much pain) as 
well as the tragedy of letting 
politics lead to this loss (Ten 
thousand years of marching 
through/A veil of tears/To break a 
few links in these chains...).
The title track is a catchy, 
danceable tune. Clegg notes be
fore the beginning of the song 
that it is For my son and all the 
children of his generation who 
will have to deal with all that my 
generation has bequeathed to the 
21st century. He contrasts con
ditions of the world, from the 
simple (Sometimes you smile
when youre crying inside) to the 
near-scathing (You have to live 
with the crooked politician). Yet 
the song encourages an attitude 
of hope with (So few years to give 
you wings to fly/ Show you stars 
to guide your ship by).
Cleggs lyrics are not limited to 
this one arena of politics. In 
Woman B e My C ountry  he mixe s 
insecure feelings concerning his 
nationalism with his need for 
emotional support.
Listening to this album is like 
meeting a new friend. At first, 
youre attracted to what you see 
on the outside and then gradually 
the deeper traits become evident, 
and you like him or her even more. 
This music is infectious; it is light 
and uplifting, yet beneath the 
music are introspective ly j-ics that 
speak through generations.
Free Sneak Preview
This Saturday, midnight 
at Showcase Cinema East 
Just stop by the Tartan Office tomorrow and pick up your 
free pair of tickets. But hurry, there are only 25 pairs.
K?

---------------------------------------------------

AB LECTURES
PRESENTS
Music Censorship Debate
"ONLY AS NASTY 
AS WE WANT YOU 
TO BE"
)
Editor of SPIN Magazine
Irv
Public Attorney State of Florida
Tuesday October 30, 1990 7:30 pm Skibo Ballroom
Free Admission Seating Limited to 300
Sponsored by AB Lectures Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

d.b dhNChg 8 hNgbomb 3bffag 8 $z UsCaRbN MzzBM9
hCb gmo.C dE r.a2r ubrbNIb C.bmN Cmtb rfaC
plco tiarIn from page L13
1sk-before-look which is comn0nplace both in class and 
oardrooms and usually accom
panies questions such as Did you 
jring enough gum for the class, 
3lly? and Why are third quarjer profits down, William?
The Quiz Kids Challenge wins 
he prize for the most involved 
juestions, sporting categories like 
The New World Dutch, 
American Battle Cries, and 
Body Geometry. This game show 
jso wins the most incongruent 
juestion category: One of the vi,ual cues for a question was a 
)hoto of a Derringer pistol. The 
juestion was If turned on its 
ide, which one of the continents 
yould look the most like this gun? 
The adults won (Mike was way 
jlever  I guess those four years 
flaw school sure helped). The 
rock is that while it is the adults 
hat win, the kids are the ones 
vho have to return on the folowing daythis odd rule makes 
The Quiz Kids Challenge remiliscent of carpooling to school. 
The adults only have to stay for 
he good parts.
Finally, The Quiz Kids Chalnge is uniquely tailored to its 
-outhful contestants. As consola;ion prizes, the Quiz Kids receive 
loth Hulk Hogan brand vitamins 
md Bar None candy.
;MU hosts 
gCNhtiNhf
lance
Jy MIKE SHAPIRO
\rtan Staffwriter
CMU students with an inclinaion for formal dancing will find 
ilenty of light fantastic ready to 
le tripped at a series of social and 
competitive dance events next 
reek, courtesy of the Carnegie 
iellon University Ballroom 
)ance Club.
The Pittsburgh Ballroom Dance 
estival will feature workshops 
nd lighthearted festivities, as 
well as two amateur competitions. 
The contests include profes
ional exhibitions and social 
lancing between competing 
;eats. Many different styles of 
ance will be featured, from the 
impler American forms to the 
lore demanding European techiques. CMU students who deIdeto compete wont just be facing 
ach other  theyll have teams 
rom the University of Ohio, Penn 
tate, and Catholic University to 
ontend with as well. For $15 you 
an partake in the contest, or for 
[ a $10 ticket you can watch the 
iction from afar.
The dance workshops, to be held 
n Friday morning, will include 
rofessional instruction, at many 
afferent levels of skill. Price for 
ttendance is $20.
The weekend will draw to a 
lose with a Farewell Dance, fea
turing live music performed by 
he Frank Lasco Band. Dont leap
Instead of a game show, the 
next program is a change of pace: 
a thirty minute commercial star
ring Cathy Lee Crosby. Through 
teary-eyed extreme close-ups, this 
infomercial explores the virtues 
of weight loss through The Micro 
Diet. Because it seems peculiarly 
obvious to this viewer that any
body who eats micro-food is 
bound to lose weight, this viewer 
was inclined to turn to CNN 
Headline news, another tasty 
twenty-four hour morsel.
But now its time for The 
Joker's Wildl The Jokers Wild 
once was known as one of those 
game shows that could really 
wreak hell with the players (you 
all know the scenario, the player 
pulls the lever, the fake slot ma
chine rolls and Jack Barry 
screams in mounting ecstasy 
joker, JOKER!.... Babylonian 
Shipbuilding.) Sadly, The 
Joker's Wild is now a pale shadow 
of its former self, the fake slot 
machine now looks somewhat 
akin to the head of Voltron, De
fender of the Universe, and the 
new host, Pat Finn, could bore 
chying paint.
The object of The Jokers Wild 
now involves identifying the cat
egory to which a set of words 
might belong. On pressing the 
mute button this reporter found 
himself confronted with the string
You all know the scenario, the player 
pulls the lever, the fake slot machine 
rolls and Jack Barry screams in 
mounting ecstasy joker, JOKER!.... 
Babylonian Shipbuilding.
of words Ma and Pa Joad, 
Murphy, Trundle and Bunk, 
Wampum. On depressing the 
mute button, applause could be 
heard following the word Wam
pum.
Consolation prizes on The 
Jokers Wild include Hulk Hogan 
Vitamins as well as Actifed, which 
has the side effect of inducing 
drowsiness in whoever takes it. 
Whoever said that subliminality 
is dead?
That of course, did nothing to 
hamper the progress of the next 
entry, live from Atlantic City, 
televisions self proclaimed non
stop game of knowledgeTrump 
Card! At this point a fellow 
viewer reported astonishment at 
seeing the words Trump and 
knowledge used in the same 
sentence.
The host of this pot-pourri of 
intellect is the aptly , named 
Johnny Cephalo (at least its pro
nounced that way), which makes 
him sound like a brain, even if he 
dresses like a gangster and talks 
like Rex Reed.
Trump Card is also blessed with 
the presence of your Trump Card 
Hostess, Debbie Massey, who 
appeared in a prom gown and 
promptly vanished. Trump Card 
is also unique in that it is the only 
TV game show with a disco ball.
Trump Card also violated a 
major game show hostmanship 
rule: never allow the contestants 
to talk. The initial chatter with 
the first contestant (Ginny, a PhD 
in French) went something like 
this,
So, you have a PhD in French, 
Yes I do, Johnny,
YOU DONT SAY!
The second contestant, John 
from New Jersey, was apparently 
much too dull to be allowed to 
speak, so Johnny skipped right to 
the third contestant.
Johnny looked down at the card 
and read, Pat, it says here that 
you are an English teacher who 
enjoys parasailing.
All seemed right until Pat re
sponded, I have only been 
parasailing once, in France.
At this point, Johnny was ob
viously taken aback, both by the 
contestants brashness and the 
fact that France had come up twice 
in the opening chatter. The re
dundancy seemed to have a 
blocking effect on Johnny 
Cephalos otherwise fertile brain. 
Instead of the expected GOOD 
FOR YOU!*here was one of those 
embarrassing cut-aways and 
johnny miraculously appeared 
back behind the podium  but 
the panic was still visible in his 
eyes. Thankfully, Johnnys mind 
was unharmed, as he was soon 
back in top form asking questions 
like what historical character 
would write the graffiti Mark and 
Julius can kiss my asp? 
Tic Tac Dough is on next, but 
the iniquity which this show has 
gone through in its post-Wink 
Martindale period is almost un
speakable. After having lived 
through those seven thrill-packed 
weeks in which a young Naval 
officer won over one-hundred 
thousand dollars in said show 
back in 1980, this reporter is much 
too appalled at the violence which
has been committed to offer any
thing by way of a review.
Except for the fact that the con
testants are as stupid as they 
were in the Wink Martindale pe
riod:
Which classical piece features 
a disobedient boy named Peter 
and his encounter with a wolf?
Beep!
The Sorcerers Apprentice?
Well, at least they kept the 
dragon.
In approximately two and a half 
hours, four game shows featured 
two questions about the 
Lindbergh baby, two categories 
about celebrities first jobs (did 
you know that Dustin Hoffman 
used to type up entries for phone 
books? Did you care?), two had 
questions on grammar (neither 
one was answered correctly) and 
every one of them offered Jantzen 
Sportswear as a consolation prize, 
breaking the record previously 
held by Hulk Hogan Vitamins.
At 4:30 am the station breaks 
for a full half-hour newscast, 
thereby ending the late night 
marathon of reject gameshows 
and starting the early morning 
marathon of new shows, which is 
a topic all to itself.
And for the less litigious of you 
who might be reading this, the 
dent between the lips and the 
nose is called the tephiltrim.
Amgoafu uabrgHC fmIb in Ca .mr nhrC
through the door in your favorite 
John Travolta bell bottoms, 
though  formal attire is re
quested. Admission price is $5, 
with tickets available at the door.
A prime goal of the festival, 
says Public Relations chair Maria 
Wadlow, is to raise funds to send 
club dancers to an international 
competition in England next 
March. However, she also cites 
the chance to raise campus 
awareness ofballroom dancing.
There just arent that many 
ballroom dance competitions 
around, let alone in Pittsburgh, 
says Wadlow. One of the reasons 
we wanted to sponsor this is to 
give people a chance to attended a 
dance competition  even if just 
as spectators.
Students interested in ballroom 
dancing are encouraged to join 
the CMU Ballroom Dance club, 
where they can sharpen their 
skills at a wide variety of dances, 
including the Waltz, Fpxtrot, and 
Cha-Cha. Meetings are Wednes
day evenings in Thistle Hall.
For more information call festi
val chair Cindy Wood at 655-8740 
or Club President Aki Oshsmia at 
687-9810.
GINGOLD, from page L13
daily the first and second violin 
sections, accompanied Cardenes 
nicely, carefully following the 
dynamics so as to not dominate 
over the soloist.
The Suite from the Threepenny 
Opera usually requires a larger 
orchestra for full effects. Although 
the large orchestra was not 
present on stage in number, the 
magnitude of the sound of the 
orchestra made it seem so. The 
woodwind section made a strong 
impression dynamically in the fi
nale, Cannon Song. The singers 
involved were Richard Berlin, 
member of the Mendelssohn Choir 
of Pittsburgh; Myrna Paris, 
former CMU graduate student of 
opera theater (1978-79); Curt 
Scheib, assistant professor of voice 
at Seton Hill College; Barbara 
Cohen, member of the 
Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh; 
and Angela Hobbs, a first year 
graduate student at CMU. 
Though Weills work has been 
labeled as an opera, it has also 
been known to be somewhat of a 
musical. In fact, this past year, 
the Threepenny Opera made its 
debut in New York starring wellknown rock star Sting. Berlin, 
Paris, Scheib, Cohen, and Hobbs 
all displayed their strong vocal 
qualities, but had difficulty por
traying their characters in the 
songs.
There was only one dismaying 
portion of the concert. It is always 
a disappointment when a famous 
figure can no longer live up to his 
audiences expectations. The concert program praised violinist 
Josef Gingold as a virtuosic ge
nius who has used his immense 
talent together with rare human
ity to enrich the lives of a world
wide audience with the music of 
the ages. Reviewing Gingolds 
impressive past career as a 
member of Arturo Toscaninis 
NBC Symphony Orchestra, as 
concertmaster of the Cleveland 
Symphony Orchestra under di
rection of George Szell, and as an 
internationally known teacher in 
such places as Paris and Tokyo, 
one cannot doubt that Gingold is 
a truly great man.
Unfortunately, time catches up 
with all of us. Not every musician 
could possess the energy that such 
artists as the recently departed 
Leonard Bernstein did. Gingolds 
boisterous style seen in his re
cordings and documentaries 
about his life are no longer 
present. His playing has become 
laconic.
In Vivaldis Concerto for Four 
Violins, Gingold was somewhat 
lax. Rather than coming in on the 
down beat as he was supposed to 
at the beginning of the piece, 
Gingold came in a beat early on 
the upbeat. Also, Vivaldis works 
require much animation in order 
to attract an audiences attention. 
Although Gingold was immersed 
in his music, he could not produce 
the excitement needed to make 
the concerto complete. The three 
other soloistsAndres Cardenes, 
Aron Bitran, and Saul Bitran 
(both members of the Cuarteto 
Latinoamericano)  played the
Sophomore flute major Damienne 
Gingold for his autograph.
piece in the manner it deserved. 
The orchestras viola section also 
shone with small solos by Nicole 
Brockmann, a junior music ma
jor, and Thalia Pinete, a graduate 
music major.
Despite the disappointing per
formance by Gingold and the 
minute flaws in singing interpre
tations in The Threepenny Opera, 
the Carnegie Mellon PhilharTad Dockstader/Tartan Photo Editor 
Fenlon asks fellow musician Josef
monic came through with an im
pressive concert. The orchestra is 
abundant in talent and has the 
potential to surpass any 
conductors expectations. The 
group will be performing in a se
ries of concerts at Carnegie Hall 
throughout the year and are worth 
the purchasing of tickets. For it is 
the talent of such an orchestra 
that brings m^sic into our lives.
When you don't know 
where to turn...
A service of the United Way 
of Allegheny County
I / UNE255-1155
Carol Peluso Costume Shop #3 
115 Meyran Avenue 
683-981 1
Masks. Wigs & Costumes Novelties and Make-up! Lowest Prices!!! Mon thru Friday: 10 to 5 pm Sat: 10 to 2
The London
Theatre Program
"/SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE mid the 
BRITISH AMERICAN DRAMA ACADEMY
------------------------------------------------------------------M-.
A unique opportunity for college students to study 
with Britains leading actors and directors. Acting study 
and performance, supplemented by academic work. Full 
academic credit is provided for either a semester or a year, 
for details and an application, write:
The London Theatre Program, Box 
Sarah Lawrencc College, Bronxville, N. Y. 10708.
 EPLDPLDPALS*EPROME2PROM*CMOS*SRAM#
Your education shouldnt end at graduation.
Learning should be an ongoing, lifelong process. Yourfirst career move can set the stage. If youre graduating with a degree in Computer Science or Electrical Engineering, and youre looking for a company that will recognize your efforts and offer an excellent learning ground, look 
no further than Altera. We're the leading manufacturer of Erasable Programmable Logic Devices and are seeking self-motivated graduates for the following positions:
 PC Planners  Application Engineers Design Engineers Product Engineers
See your Placement Center regarding our interview schedule on:November 5th and 6th, 1990
 EPLD*PLDPALS*EPROM*E2PROMCMOSSRAM
P'lr/
The latest looks for 
him and her. Soft 
and shaped. Up
dated. Now. Cuts 
that move with body 
and volume. Sophis
ticated style from 
our experts.
237 Atwood St. 687-3500Across the street from the Oakland Post Office
EXPECTATIONS
GET WHAT PiL EXPECT
Mon-Fri 10-7 
Sat 9-6
$2.00 Off
I On a Precision Haircut
'empiete with wash & style)
I Expires 11/30/90L COUPON, J
Free Hair Consultation 
Also Available:
 Perms  Frosting Conditioning  Coloring 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED

---------------------------------------------------

ZM0d.b dhNChg 8 hNgbomb 3bffag 8 $z UsCaRbN MzzB
Romero does it again with Night remake
I admit it, I was a scoffer.
I didnt believe they could do it.
Me of little faith.
Night of the Living Dead  re
garded by the drive-in-going 
-public of the world as the greatest 
movie ever madewas rewritten 
'two years ago, and a remake was 
announced. Not only did it have 
the blessing of George Romero, 
but George Romero was gonna 
write and produce the remake.
Excuse me, but this would be 
like Mark Twain waking up one 
-morning and saying You know 
that Huck Finn thing I did? I 
dont like it anymore. Im doing it 
again.
* And so everybody went George! 
:No! Please! Youre senile! Dont 
.try it!
But he did it. He turned over 
the direction to Tom Savini, his 
special-effects makeup guy, the 
'man whos made a whole career 
out of building slimy pus-filled 
ghoul faces.
We kept trying to talk him out 
of it. George, dont do it! We love 
the black-and-white! It wont work 
an color!
But he kept on.
Menahem Golan, the Israeli 
king of the ninja flick, announced 
he was producing the remake.
* No! Menahem! Please! This 
SVill be a bigger turkey than 
Treasure of the Four Crowns!
And Menahem said, What is 
Treasure of the Four Crowns?
And we yelled back, Treasure of 
Vie Four Crowns is a 3-D Indiana
JOE BOB GOES TO THE 
DRIVE IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
Jones ripoff full of Spanish extras 
that you made in 1982!
And Menahem sa\d, I made 
that?
And then they got to the point of 
no return: They started casting 
the lead roles  in Pittsburgh.
Pittsburgh, the city where it all 
started. 1967. George Romero was 
an unknown director of TV com
mercials. One day he wrote a 
script called Night of the Flesh 
Eaters. He hired some amateur 
actors. He conned a crew into 
worldngfor him. He got investors. 
Seven months later, the modem 
horror film was bom. (The dis
tributor retitled it Night of the 
Living Dead.)
One night, for no reason, the 
zombies rise up out of the earth 
and start devouring the United 
States. Seven people are holed up 
in a Pennsylvania farmhouse, 
trying to decide which is worse  
fighting the flesh-eating zombies 
or fighting each other.
And zombieshave never been 
the same since.
The Zombie Stomp, the herkyjerky movement of Romeros 
drunken, stumbling zombies, has 
been adopted by zombies in every 
movie since then. Braineating 
first became a staple of the 
American zombie diet in this flick. 
And it was the first movie where 
the white guy wasnt the hero. 
Women did the clear thinking. 
The black guy did the fighting 
and protecting. And the white 
males just got in the way.
In other words, it was also the 
first democratic zombie movie. In 
the fifties, all the heroes were 
Republicans, fighting against 
Russian-type space aliens that 
were trying to take over our minds, 
and the women all stood by their 
men. In George Romeros movies, 
the women have to knock the men 
out of the way with a rifle butt to 
get a good crack at the mostly 
white, mostly male zombies. (Ac
tually, the zombies are pale yel
low in the remake, but I dont 
think George is making an Asian 
statement yet.)
In 1968 George had a hard time 
getting anybody to release Night 
of the Living Dead, but by 1970 it 
was already considered the 
greatest horror film in history. 
Romero has made two sequels, 
Dawn of the Dead and Day of the 
Dead, and one of the original pro
ducers has done an excellent com
edy version, Return of the Living 
Dead. The original movie has 
probly been seen by more people, 
worldwide, than any other horror
flick except Psycho.
And now theyve done it again.
Theyve not only done it again. 
Theyve done it better.
This time, with professional 
actors, with color, with special 
effects, with zombies that outzombie the original zombies, 
theyve told the exact same story, 
with about five minutes of changes 
in the plot jwsi enough to give it a 
great surprise at the end, and 
even though youve seen it before, 
and even though you know what 
the zombies are gonna do, and 
even though you know what each 
of the people inside the house is 
gonna do, it still scares the 
bejabbers out of you and satisfies 
the first rule of drive-in 
moviemaking: Anybody can die 
at any moment.
Im humiliated that I was such 
a doubter.
I apologize to Mr. Savini and 
Mr. Romero.
Wheel in the Academy members 
from Palm Springs. Hookup their 
IVs. Force em to watch this.
Because, as Barbara says, 
Theyre us. Were them and 
theyre us.
Zombierama.
No breasts. Twenty-one dead 
bodies. Exploding pickup. Ex
ploding supporting actors. Neckcrunching. Zombie corral. Zom
bie target practice. Zombie bon
fire. Eighteen gallons of blood. A 
74 on the Vomit Meter. Kung Fu. 
Zombie Fu. Drive-In Academy 
Award nominations for Patricia
Theyre dead, theyre hungry, and theyre nastier then ever in the new 
and improved version of Night of the Living Dead.
Tallman, as Barbara, one of the 
greatest screamers in moviedom, 
for slowly going crazy With a 
shotgun in her hand, and for 
saying Whats happening?; Tony 
Todd, as Ben, for doing the im
possible, surpassing the original 
starring performance of Duane 
Jones, and for saying This is hell 
on earth; Tom Towles, best 
known as Otis in Henry: Portrait 
of a Serial Killer, as Cooper, for
stealing the TV, barricading hiniselfin the cellar, slapping his wife 
around, and screaming You 
bunch of yoyos!; and for Tom 
Savini, the director, for perfectly 
preserving drive-in history.
Four stars. Joe Bob says cl 
it out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and 
only drive-in critic from Grapvine, 
Texas.
-agubN -athg gbIbN .hu rCNhnr ag her sarCitb
Who would our idols be if it 
werent for the entertainment 
world? Imagine Betsy Ross as a 
Vole model. I would love to have 
her dexterity with the needle and 
thread! Or what about Sigmund 
/Freud? Just buy me a T-shirt with 
the label pervert. Thanks to TV, 
MTV, CDs and the National 
Enquirer, if it werent for them, I 
might have molded myself after 
Lyndon LaRouche.
 I wanted to be Wonder Woman. 
I mean, after all, who else is there 
for a seven year old to idolize  
her mother? Id rather watch 
someone twirl aimlessly in a pa
triotic bathing suit than hear my 
mother read The New York Times 
Obituaries aloud at the kitchen 
table. And besides, I was inter
ested in the feminist movement 
at the time and was pleased that 
a female superhero was getting 
more TV air time than Spiderman.
It was a tough job following in 
Wonder Womans footsteps, but 
someone had to do it. I battled on 
the playground, lassoing anyone
DOING THE TIME WARP
by Marni Borek
with my jump rope who had 
committed serious misdemean
ors. When Jonathan Levitan 
pushed lunch lady Miss Rhodey 
down the front steps of the school, 
I was there to round him up and 
send him to the principal. My 
aggressive method was not well 
received by all, but it did convince 
my mom to buy me a Wonder 
Woman lunchbox (she was scared 
I would lasso the teachers for as
signing homework on Fridays).
I outgrew my admiration for 
Wonder Woman when the Most 
Embarrassing Event In My En
tire Life occurred. We were doing 
a Christmas show for all the third
graders and I convinced my class 
to do a show about Wonder 
Woman (because I promised to 
bring in the Bee Gees for Show 
and Tell). My aunt Rhoda had 
just gotten me a Wonder Woman 
bathing suit and I was ready to 
show off my voluptuous Lynda 
Carter figure. There was only one 
flaw  my bathing suit had 
straps. Wonder Woman didnt 
need straps to hold up her cos
tume! As I prepared myself for 
my role on that fateful day in 
December, I decided to let down 
the straps of my suit so my por
trayal would be more realistic. As 
I spun around dizzily in front of 
fifty-three third graders, my pride, 
my joy  my Wonder Woman 
bathing suit dropped below my 
waist. It was my performance that 
spurred the premature showing 
of Where Do I Come From? to the 
seven and eight-year-old boys of 
Robbins Lane Elementary School.
By sixth grade, idolizing a su
perhero was as out of style as 
Jordache jeans. It was time to
explore other options. My option 
was Michael Jackson. All right, 
call him whatever names you 
wish, but I bet somewhere in your 
record collection, buried between 
the Village People and Olivia 
Newton Johns Greatest Hits, is 
the Thriller album. I went beyond 
the purchasing of the ultimate 
how to moonwalk album. I built 
a Michael Jackson chapel in my 
bedroom. At night I would kneel 
on my bed and kiss each poster of 
him that I had cut out of Teen 
Beat magazine. If at moments I 
wanted to express my reverence 
more intensely, I would cut out 
pictures of his brother Tito and 
tape them to the wall so that 
Michael wouldnt get lonely.
On the brink of adolescence, I 
decided I wanted a big sister to 
look up to; not a rock star who 
was every cosmetologists dream. 
I needed someone to guide me 
into the world of womanhood. I 
needed someone to assure me that 
wearing a bra would not constrict 
my breathing. In between
Clearasil commercials on MTV, I 
discovered Madonna.
It was not uncommon for a 13 
year old girl to worship Madonna, 
but I considered my admiration 
for her to be beyond the ordinary. 
Yes, every girl was wearing lace 
gloves and crucifix earrings, but 
did you ever know someone to 
wear their Warners My First 
Training Bra over a net football 
jersey to middle school? My bra 
was nothing like Madonnas. Hers 
was lace and held a bit more 
substance while mine looked like 
a sterilized bandage with a little 
pink bow in the middle. All the 
ninth grade girls looked at the 
nostalgic preteen antique I was 
wearing and sighed in relief, 
thanking puberty for getting them 
past my awkward stage.
My mom put a stop to my 
wanna be stage when she over
heard the women on the PTA 
board discussing my inappropri
ate midriff shirts. She thought I 
was wearing those nice blouses 
she had gotten on sale at MacyV
to school (I had learned a quick 
way to change clothing on the 
schoolbus without causing con
troversy). All I had left were the 
posters on my walls, but even 
those became dust in the wind.
My uncle Liebish, who happen^ 
to be an orthodox rabbi, was given 
a tour of our newly painted homel 
As he entered my room he mut
tered some unintelligible Yiddisli 
when he viewed my life size poster 
of Madonna, fully garnished 
crucifixes. My parents then made 
me remove all my posters so 
wouldnt give my uncle a coronary 
during his weeks stay. Oy gevalt!
I dont think having idols has 
made me a bad person, 
perspective of my antics, I 
only laugh, thinking about ho\f 
having my role models has mad? 
me a stronger person. Ive learned 
how to take embarrassment ii 
stride. Its certainly better than 
worshipping Margaret Thatcher.
Tartan Staffwriter Marni Borek 
is a freshman H&SS student.
THEATRE COMPANY/j
aaa mh hos tfmPoiLus
... A Point Park College Tradition!222 Craft Ave., Pgh, PA 15213 
 Oct. 31 thru Nov. 18 
The Playboy of the 
Western World ~
byJ.M. Synge
In the Theatre Downstairs../ 
Directed by William Duncan 
Wed-Thur-Fri-Sat at 8 pm 
Sun at 7 pm
Tickets: $6 
CALL 621-4445
(ftlo BVftMnbte it T1XI), haft-price,ahovtQ.
Saint Elmo's is a bookstore for those who march to o different drummer by 
choice or necessity. We have the most informed, ond often subversive 
collections in Gender Studies, Holistic Lifestyles, Ecology & EcoFeminism, 
Vegetarian Cookery, Women & Men's Studies, Cultural Analysis and Animal 
/lights. Our Gay and Lesbian Fiction and Non Fiction 
collection is the best in Western PA.
Saint Elmo's is not a bookstore for everyone, but if you are looking for options, 
and/or are courageous in your life choices, visit us and 
Explore your alternatives.
k_
2214 E. Coison Street Pgh 15203 431-9100
Open 10-9 Mon thru Sol, Sun until 5
Wissmans Forward Lanes
5844 Forward Avenue (Squirrel Hill) 422-5844 
only minutes from campus
Thursday CMU Night 
9:30pm12:30am
Free rental shoes and bowling discounts 
with CMU I.D.
Call for special group rates and all nite parties.
B
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
L
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17
mr U,A, GAxd hC C.b smNsir
The smells, sights and sounds of The Ringling Bros, and Barnum &Bailey Circus will fill the Pittsburgh Civic Arena November 13  18,1990 'and Saturday, November 17 is COLLEGE NIGHT. You and your friends get two dollars off the price of any ticket!! Just redeem this coupon at the Civic Arena Box Office and come one, come all to The Greatest Show on Earth, November 17,1990 at 7:30 PM!
Dont miss your last opportunity to see Gunther Gebel-Williams, the greatest wild animal trainer of all time!
Good lor the Saturday, November 17th performance ONLY. Coupon redeemable at the Civic Arena Box Office ONLY.

---------------------------------------------------

d.b dhNChg 8 hNgbomb 3bffag 8 $z UsCaRbN MzzBMz
 3 ih  3f
Thursday, November 1
Camille
The ever-mysterious film goddess Greta Garbo 
lets go in this 1936 classic, set in France in the 1840s. 
Director George Cukor helped Garbo bring Mar
guerite Gautier, a tragic prostitute, to life. The film, 
based on th novel by Alexander Dumas, follows 
Gautiers stormy relationship with Armand (Robert 
Taylor). Lionel Barrymore co-stars in this beautifully 
moving film.
For the serious film buff or the casual ticket buyer, 
Camille should top any must-see list.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, November 2
Tales From the Darkside: 
The Movie
Take four really good writers  CMU alumnus 
George Romero, Stephen King, Michael McDowell, 
and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle  a lot of money, and 
great special effects. Put it all together and what do 
you get? Well, in this case you get a pretty lousy 
movie.
Tales from the Darkside relates three mysteri
ous (and I use that term loosely) stories to the 
viewer, each around a half an hour long. All three are 
done well and have good acting, but are very predict
able and in turn, unbearable to sit through. The only 
story which is even worth mentioning is the one 
which ties the other three together. It stars Debbie 
Harry as a sinister suburban housewife whos in the 
midst of preparing a gourmet meal, with a little boy 
as her main course. Unfortunately since its sand
wiched in between the other three you have to sit 
through the entire film to watch it.
Go only if you have nothing better to do.
At 6, 8,10 ,12
Demmie Todd/1990 Laurel DSM, Inc 
Debbie Harry stars as a hungry housewife in the boring Tales from 
the Darkside: The Movie.
Saturday, November 3
The Exorcist
At the time of its release, The Exorcist was an 
unprecedented shocker. Linda Blair stars as a young 
girl whose mother (Ellen Burstyn) notices that her 
behavior has turned strange and calls in a few 
doctors. Of course, these modern medics dont even 
come close to delivering the proper diagnosis: that 
this girl is possessed by evil spirits. So the girls 
mother is forced to call in some specialists, a pair of 
.genuine exorcists (played by Jason Miller and Max 
von Sydow). Today this movie may seem tame, even 
comical, compared with the horror films that have 
followed. Still, a few classic scenes, like when Blairs 
head spins around, make this film worth the dollar.
At 7, 9:30,12
Sunday, November 4
Young Guns
In this action-packed western, Billy the Kid and 
his regulators unleash havoc after their mentor, 
John Tunstall, is ambushed by the Santa Fe ring. At 
first, the good ol boys are deputized and given 
orders to find Tunstalls murderess. However, Billy 
the Kid provides justice the old-fashioned way by 
putting the bad guys six feet under. Branded out
laws, the regulators are tracked down by the U.S. 
Army and bounty hunters. It all boils down to a 
heart-pounding confrontation at the end.
The cast includes such talented former
heartthrobs as Emilio Estevez, Charlie Sheen, 
Kiefer Sutherland, and Lou Diamond Phillips. Draw 
your dollar from your pocket and mosey on down to
DH2210.
At 6, 8,10 ,12
; By STEPHEN GLICKER, TERRI KASCH, &
\SGug,su kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk
TV BREAK
A summary of upcoming epi
sodes of Carnegie Melton's favor
ite TV shows.
Regular Network Programs 
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Frasier and 
Lilith decide their son needs a 
full-time parentbut who should 
it be? And Rebecca and Carla 
decide to pay Robin a visit.
DOCTOR, DOCTOR. Thurs
day at 9:30 pm, channel 2 (CBS). 
Mike doesnt like the new recep
tionist, but Grants dating her.
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). A young med-school ap
plicant learns how to have fun  
with Vinnies help.
THE FLASH. Thursday at 8:30 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). Theres some 
sort of connection between Barrys 
extended blackouts and mysteri
ous disturbances in a local 
neighborhood, and a drug lord is 
responsible.
LA. LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Derron 
Holloway finds a new witness in 
the Chisholm case; the Shays 
rebellion comes to a close; par
ents seek legal relief from their 
emotionally disturbed adopted 
son; and Beckers marital bliss is 
tested by Gwens appearance in 
the office and Roxannes refusal 
to do menial errands for Corrinne.
MURPHY BROWN. Monday 
at 9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). 
Murphys in the hospital with a 
slipped disc  and shes mad. 
(Repeat)
QUANTUM LEAP. Friday at 
8 pm, channel 11 (NBC). Sams a 
beauty queenMiss Sugar Belle, 
to be exact. He (she?) must try to
keep a fellow contestant from 
making a decision that will send 
her down the path of despair.
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 
8 pm, channel 53 (Fox). Three
eyed fish? Homers boss, a gu
bernatorial candidate, claims that 
its all a process of natural se
lection.
STAR TREK: THE NEXT 
GENERATION. Sunday at 6 pm, 
channel 22 (WPTT). One the 
planet Turkama Four, birthplace 
of the late Tasha Y ar, two warring 
factions hinder the Away Teams 
rescue of a marooned Federation 
crew.
THIRTYSOMETHING. Tues
day at 10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). 
Miles gives Michael the honor of 
handling the pre-Halloween fir
ings.
TWIN PEAKS. Saturday at 10 
pm, channel 4 (ABC). Cooper and 
Truman raid One-Eyed Jacks; 
Donna and Maddy are at the 
mercy of Harold Smith.
THE WONDER YEARS. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Not being shown due to a 
Growing Pains special.
Special Programs
BEETLE JUICE. Tuesday at 9 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). Recently 
deceased homeowners dont like 
what their replacements are do
ing to their beautiful abode. Who 
ya gonna call? Michael Keaton. 
Also starringAlec Baldwin, Geena 
Davis, Jeffrey Jones, Catherine 
OHara, and Winona Ryder.
KRAMER VS. KRAMER. 
Thursday at 8 pm, channel 22 
(WPTT). All about a child-custody 
battle and the pain it causes. 
Starring Dustin Hoffman and
Meryl Streep.
FRESH PRINCE OF BEL 
AIR. Monday at 8 pm, channel 11 
(NBC). A cameo-laced Halloween 
special with appearances by 
Quincy Jones, Kadeem Hardison, 
Bo Jackson, and Heavy D.
NFL MONDAY NIGHT 
FOOTBALL. Monday at 9 pm, 
channel 4 (ABC). The Steelers on 
Monday night! Bubby and the 
boys take on the hapless Los An
geles Rams.
NIGHT COURT. Friday at 9 
pm, channel 11 (NBC). Yes, 
theyre still around, with a special 
60-minute episode looking at what 
the staff did before they joined 
night court. Included: Harry the 
magician, Christine the beautypageant finalist, and Dan the 25- 
year-old virgin.
Cable Programs
ALFRED HITCHCOCK 
PRESENTS MARATHON.
Monday to Friday, 8 pm to 6 am, 
Nickelodeon. Thats right  en
joy chills and thrills with that 
master of suspense, ten hours a 
night for five nights. Another 
service of Nick at Nite.
ASSAULT OF THE KILLER 
BIMBOS. Friday at midnight, 
USA. Go-go girls run from the 
law, framed for a murder they 
didnt commit. Starring Elizabeth 
Kaitan as LuLu.
THE BEAR. Thursday at 7 pm, 
Cinemax. A big, live-action 
Bambi. Filmed in the Alps. Star
ring A Bear and Tcheky Karyo.
BIG. Saturday at 4:30 pm, 
HBO. A carnival wishing machine 
transforms a 13-year-old school
boy into a 35-year-old man. 
Starring Tom Hanks and Eliza
beth Perkins.
BIRDS DO IT.... BEES D0 
IT.... Early Friday at 4:10 am, 
Cinemax. And this film shows you 
how they do it.
BLACK RAIN. Tuesday at ID 
pm and Friday at 3:25 am, HBO. 
A corrupt New York policeman 
plunges into the Japanese un
derworld to locate an escaped 
prisoner. Starring Michael Dou
glas and Andy Garcia.
A DRY WHITE SEASON. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, HBO. An 
Afrikaner schoolteacher becomes 
involved as a black family fights 
against discrimination in South 
Africa. Starring Donald 
Sutherland and Marlon Brando.
A FISH CALLED WANDA. 
Saturday 11 pm, HBO. A London 
lawyer gets mixed up with jewel 
thieves. Starring John Cleese, 
Jamie Lee Curtis, and Kevin 
Kline.
HAMBURGER ... THE MO
TION PICTURE. Thursday at 9 
pm, USA. With a name like that, 
its got to be good. Starring Leigh 
McCloskey, Dick Butkus, and 
Randi Brooks.
I WAS A TEENAGE SEX 
MUTANT. Early Saturday at 2 
am, USA. Hes a nerd, until hfe 
drinks that magic serum. Watch 
for Judy Landers as Ms. Xeno
phobia. Also starringBilly Jacoby.
INVASION OF THE BODY 
SNATCHERS. Saturday at 6 am, 
Cinemax. Earth is invaded bjr 
human-duplicating space pods in 
this remake of the 1956 classic. 
Starring Donald Sutherland and 
Brooke Adams.
Compiled by 
A. FRANKLIN WHEELED
\ou said you wanted 
to turn in papers 
that turn heads.
See how we listened.
Look what you can do on the IBM Personal System/2 *
And with the easy-to-use preloaded software, including 
Microsoft* Windows 3.0, writing papers is only the begin
ning. Just point and click the mouse to move text. Create 
graphics, charts, even spreadsheets, or do other projects 
like resumes and flyers.
Plus, the PS/2s* and select printers are available 
at special student prices* Print impressive output with 
the IBM Proprinter, IBM LaserPrinter E or the
Hewlett-Packard Paintjet^color graphics printer.
And if you buy before December 31,1990, youll receive 
a TWA Certificate entitling you to a round-trip ticket for 
$149**/$249.** Plus a free TWA Getaway* Student Dis
count Card application. Youll also get a 
great low price on the PRODIGY* service.
If you want to start turning heads with 
your work, theres really only one place to 
turn...the IBM PS/2.
For more information, contact your IBM Collegiate. Representatives:
HYUN SHIN BRIAN BUZZELLI MIKE TUCKER
237-4048 237-4719 237-4754
To place an order, contact The CMU Computer Store
268-2636 IgEjrE
This oiler is available only lo qualified sludenls, faculty, stall and institutions thal purchase IBM Selected Academic Solutions through participating campus locations Orders are subject lo availability. Prices are subiect to change and IBM may 
withoraw the oiler al any lime without written notice "Valid lor any TWA destination in the continental U S or Puerto Rico lor travel September 16,1990, through Oecember 19,1991, at Ihe following round-trip lares $149.00 round-trip for Iravel from September 16.1990. through June 14.1991, and September 16.1991 through December 19.1991. $249 00 round-tnp for travel June 15.1991. through Seplember 15.1991. Seals are limited Fare is non-relundable 14 day advance purchase 
blackout dates and certain other restrictions apply. Complete details will bo shown on certificate. Applicants lor TWA's Getaway Student Discount Card must be full-time students between the ages ol 16-26 - IBM. Personal Syslem/2 and PSrn 
are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation PaintJet is a registered trademark ol Hewlett-Packard Company. TWA is a registered service mark ol Trans
World Airlines. Inc TWA Gelaway is a registered trademark ol Trans World Airlines, Inc PRODIGY is a registered s .............................  ~
International Business Machines Corporalion. Windows is a trademark ol Microsoft Corporation 
IBM Corporation 1990
!d service mark and Irademark ol Prodigy Services Company, a partnership ol IBM and Sears "IBM Proprinter is a trademark ol

---------------------------------------------------

Admission for all Pittsburgh Playhouse films 
Is $3. Admission for DH 2210 is $1.
Stop Making Sense plays at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse tonight at 7:30 and 9:30.
Blade Runner will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse tomorrow at 7:30 and 9:40 pm.
The Hunger will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Wednesday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
Camille will play in DH 2210 Thursday at 6, 
8, and 10 pm.
Tales from the Darkside will play in DH 
2210 Friday at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
The Exorcist will play in DH 2210 Saturday 
at 7, 9:30, and midnight.
Young Guns will play in DH 2210 Sunday at
6, 8,10, and midnight.
The Ugliest Man On Campus (UMOC) 
results will be announced Saturday in the 
Wherrett Room. Enter now. Sponsored by A 
Phi O; proceeds go to the United Way. For 
more information on ugly men, call Helga 
Yang at x7543.
Mr. Fraternity Contest will be held Fri
day, November 9, at 7:30 pm in the Skibo 
Ballroom. Tickets are on sale for $3.50 in 
front of Doherty Hall and inside Morewood 
Gardens. Tickets will be $4 at the door. Pro
ceeds go to the Central Ohio Lung Association 
in memory of Karin Johnson, a Theta sister.
Architectural Brochures: History, Hype, 
and Graphic Design, an exhibit of archi
tectural promotional materials from the 
Pittsburgh region taken from the archives of 
GMUs Architecture Department, will be dis
played until November 30. This display, dat
ing from the 1890s to the present, will be on 
the fourth floor of the Hunt Library.
The Ebony Fashion Show will be held in 
Heinz Hall tonight at 8.
*
This week at The Forbes Gallery: The
works of Hope Johnson, Kate Grinnin, and 
Alison Coleman will be exhibited starting 
tomorrow and lasting until Sunday. Recep
tions are held every Friday evening from 7 to 
5. Call x2081 for more information.
The Pittsburgh Ballroom Dance Festi
val will be held Friday through Sunday in the 
Skibo Ballroom and other campus locations. 
Spectators and participants are welcome to 
this regional competition, which will include 
dance workshops, the competition itself, and 
b social event afterwards. Tickets will be 
Available at the door. Sponsored by the CMU 
J3allroom Dance Club.
64 Collectively is now showing at Gallery G 
on 9th Street in downtown. This exhibit in
cludes works of CMU professors Fred Carlson 
!and Herb Olds. Call 562-0912 for more infor'ination.
Professor Robert Qualters solo exhibi
tion at the Carson Street Gallery in South 
Side will run through Saturday.
The Pittsburgh Steelers on TV. The
Steelers host the Los Angeles Rams on 
Monday Night Football tonight at 9 and the 
Atlanta Falcons Sunday at 1 pm in Three 
Rivers Stadium. TV coverage for tonights 
game will be on ABC affiliate WTAE, Chan
nel 4. Coverage for Sundays game will be on 
NBC affiliate WPXI, Channel 11.
NHL action with the Pittsburgh Pen
guins. Watch the Pens go for the Stanley 
Cup without the aid of star center Mario 
Lemieux as they host the New York Rangers 
Sunday at 7:30 pm in the Civic Arena. Call 
333-7328 for ticket information.
Tartans Football Team vs. U.S. Coast 
Guard Academy. The Tartans will play their 
second-to-last game of the season and try to 
maintain their currently perfect record at the 
Coast Guard Academy in Connecticut. This 
game will be carried on WRCT, 88.3 FM.
The Mulattos Orgy will be performed today 
and tomorrow at 8 pm in the Kresge Theatre. 
Admission is free. Contact the Drama Box 
Office at x2407 for more information.
The Night of the Iguana, a Tennessee 
Williams classic, is being performed at the 
Pittsburgh Public Theatre until November 4 
in Allegheny Square, North Side. Call 321- 
9800 for ticket information.
Merlin and Arthur, a Medieval fantasy, is 
being performed by the Playhouse Junior 
Childrens Theatre until November 18 at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center. Call 
621-4445 for more information.
Otello, an opera by Giuseppe Verdi in Italian 
with English translations projected above 
the stage, will be performed Wednesday at 8 
pm in the Benedum Center. Featuring Rus
sian tenor Vladimir Atlantov for the first 
time in the US. Tickets range from $17 to $69. 
Call 456-6666 for more information.
La Cage Aux Folles will be performed by 
the Playhouse Theatre Company tomorrow 
through November 18 at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Theatre Center. Call 621-4445 for 
more information.
Eucharist, at 11:15 am Sunday in the 
Lutheran University Center on Forbes Av
enue. Contact Ruth Degenkolb at 682-6886 
for more information.
The Roman Catholic Oratory celebrates 
Mass on campus every weekend, Saturday 
nights at 7 and Sunday mornings at 10:30 in 
the Graduate School of Industrial Adminis
tration Auditorium. A solemn Sunday Mass 
is celebrated at noon Sundays in Heinz 
Chapel. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm 
in Carnegie Mellons Chapel (Skibo 39). Call 
681-3181 for more information.
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society
presents Amadeus Winds tonight at 8 in the 
Carnegie Music Hall.
Can Music Wake the Dead? This Pitts
burgh Symphony special Halloween program 
will be performed Wednesday at 8 pm in 
Heinz Hall. Tickets range from $7.70 to 
$18.70. Call 682-6886 for more information.
John Marsh, vocalist and acoustic guitarist, 
will perform Friday at 9 and 11 pm in Scot
land Yard. Admission is free. Call Lisa Yalen 
at x4965 for more information.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will 
perform The Music of Berlioz, Milhaud, and 
Ravel Friday at 8:30 pm and Sunday at 2 pm 
in Heinz Hall. Call the Symphony Box Office 
at 392-4891 for ticket information.
The Justabuncha Guys, formerly Bob Hop, 
will perform Sunday at 9 and 11 pm in 
Scotland Yard. Admission is free. Call x4965 
for more information.
Fun Flicks Videos! Make your own lip synch 
videos free of charge Wednesday, November
7, from 12:30 to 6:30 pm in the Tartan Lounge. 
Call x5396 for more information.
Activities Fee Referendum. Go vote to
morrow from 8:30 to 4:30 in front of Doherty 
Hall. Sponsored by Student Senate.
National Society of Black Engineers will 
meet Wednesday at 7 pm in the CMAP 
Complex in Smith Hall. A mandatory meet
ing for all members to go to regionals at NCC 
State on November 9,10, and 11 will follow.
Happy Halloween! Remember: Wear brightcolored clothing, bring a flashlight, and dont 
eat candy with small metal blades visible 
through the wrapper.
Purple Dinosaur Halloween Dance Party
will be held in the Doherty D-Tower Lounge 
Wednesday night. Free food and drinks if you 
come in costume, $1 otherwise. Call Julie at 
x4287 for more information.
Academic Computing & Instructional 
Technology invites students, staff, and fac
ulty to a ceremony marking the recent in
stallation of DECstation 3100 computers in 
public clusters on campus. The ceremony will 
be held Friday at 4 pm in the Wean Hall 5200 
corridor.
Sweepstakes freerolls will be held Satur
day and Sunday from 6 to 9 am on Frew and 
Tech Streets and on Schenley Drive. Contact 
Ray Fratto at 683-6413 for more information.
Bus Trip to Washington, D.C. The annual 
one-day bus trip to Washington, D.C., for art 
and design freshmen is scheduled for Thurs
day, November 8. All participants will leave 
from the Skibo parking lot at 6 am and return 
at about 11:30 pm. The cost of the trip is $20 
and payments are to be made with Chaz 
Palmer in the Design Department.
Scotch N Soda needs writers and readers 
for its fall series of writer workshops. Next 
meeting in Skibo 60 at 6 pm on Thursday. 
Call x3522 for more information.
Attend the Modern Language Programs 
language tables weekly any time between 
11:30 and 1 pm in the Morewood Dining 
Room. Ranchi O Nihon-Go De on Mondays, 
Russkaya Beseda Tuesdays (at noon), La 
Mesa Espaola Wednesdays, Deutscher 
Stammtisch Thursdays, and La Table 
Franaise Fridays.
Anonymous HIV testing is available by
appointment in the Student Health Center 
for $20. Flu shots are also being offered. Call 
x2157 for more information.
Help at critical times is available at the 
Counseling and Student Development Cen
ter in Morewood Gardens E-Tower. For indi
vidual psychotherapy, assessment and refer
ral, crisis intervention, academic tutoring, 
and psychoeducational programming, make 
an appointment at x2922. After hours emer
gency service is available.
Walk-in tutoring will be available for s^.! 
dents needing help in physics, calculus; 
chemistry, academic writing, or introductory 
computing from now until the beginning 0f 
finals in December. Call the Counseling anj 
Student Development Center at x2922 f0j 
more information.
The Student Advisory Council (SAC) of 
the Art Department, the forum for art anddesign students, meets today and every other. 
Monday at 4:30 pm in the Student Lounge 
room 404 in CFA.
Student Senate meetings are held every) 
Tuesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett Room.' 
Students are encouraged to attend. Bring a 
good book.
Jack Thompson vs. Bob Guccione Jr.
This long-awaited debate on music censor 
ship will take place tomorrow at 8 pm in theSkibo Ballroom. Presented by AB Lectures.
The Svedburg and the Reality of Mol
ecules, a lecture by Milton Kerker of' 
Clarkson University, will be given tomorrow' 
at 10:45 am in Doherty Hall 1112. Part of the; 
Department of Chemical Engineerings Fall 
1990 Seminar Program.
Help for *Less Decided Freshmen, a
seminar for first-year college students con
fused about a major or career, will be held 
tomorrow at 4:30 pm in Skibo 12. Learn 
about career counseling services to aid in! 
assessing interests, abilities, and values and', 
relating them to majors, minors, and careers, 
Sponsored by the Career Center. Call x2064J 
for more information.
Sarah Slavick, painter and visiting Art-* 
Faculty, will speak Wednesday at 5:30 pmin^ 
Margaret Morrison A14. A reception will be-- 
held at 4:30 in the South Foyer on the third' 
floor of CFA. Part of the Art Departments' 
Fall 1990 Lecture Series.
The Business Opportunities Conferences
a job seminar targeted at all students inter
ested in a summer or permanent job, will be 
held Thursday from 10:30 am to 4 pm in the 
Skibo Ballroom. Sponsored by AIME i 
GCMSO. Call Katrina Chizman atx8351 for 
more information.
Jean Thompson will give a fiction reading 
Wednesday at 8 pm in the Adamson Wing of 
Baker Hall. An English Department ] 
1990 Literature Event.
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submissions to: The. 
Tartan, Attn. Calendar, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon; 
U., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send campus mail to 
Calendar Editor, The Tartan, Skibo Info Desk. You. 
can also drop subs via AppleShare in the drop] 
folders on the Tartans server, Skibo zone. Pleaselimit submissions to fifty words or less. Deadline is 
5 pm the Thursday before the next issue. Space is 
limited and placement is not guaranteed.
Sweet for 60,
You do know what this was 
about?
Hey T,
Next time, no ROTC, no 
CompE majors, and they 
HAVE to like Chinese food! 
(Just a joke, boys)... 
luv ya, Bills favorite sister
Emacs sucks!!
Wheres the mouse?
Joking about sex AGAIN ?!? 
Shame on you! Some people 
should realize that sex IS the 
biggest joke of all.
Car Scratch Melt ? Live Birdy 
So, Peter Gabriel
Mech E juniors have a higher 
intake of Vitamin N ... 
(No-Doz)
Buckwheat,
Thanks for including me on 
the fence. But P.Q. was kinda 
bummed out that she didnt 
get mentioned.
S.L.
Sultan, Scarlett, Hawk & 
Rusty,
Without you Id never have 
made it through this far.
Thank you so much for all the 
support and for catching all 
the tears. I know Im a 3-yearold sometimes, but you never 
let me down. I couldnt ask for 
better friends.
Love, me
Watch out for the Smooth 1, 
hes dangerous.
Rumor has it that hes a Supa 
2 Ho Gangsta.
Random Fiend
Alex,
Me and Jeff dont want any more 
funny litde packets!
Walt
Sultan,
You are very welcome for 
SUNDAY night... 
tho it was long ago ...
All the time we spend together is 
special, but
I hope that happens again soon
and this time, we have candles ...
Love, Angel
Sweet for 60,
Deal with it.
spud,
your hips still sore? 
maybe you should work out 
more often.
lover
Its actually very simple:
I love you.
Any questions?
Sultan & Hawk,
We still have no idea why we put 
up with you. Maybe because 
youre just soooo cute ( ha-ha!)
... but were still not buying the 
next box. Deal with it.
Love, The Terror Twins
H III,
yours is a cocktease and mine 
doesnt put out... 
why dont we just give up and 
join OUT together?
quicksilver
Sex isnt sex without a 
condom.
The Bitch from Heli
Only one more day until 
Conrads birthday!
The ears and stupid Duh? 
might help, but theres still one 
problem  and its about 6 
inches too big. But we can help 
 well send for the handydandy ATOMIC CASTRATOR! Let us know ...
To ?,
I know we have to keep this 
secret, but lets appreciate it 
while it lasts.You are very special 
to me and hopefully we can 
make each other happy here and 
now. And if we ever find the 
time, who knows what wall 
happen!
Love, ?
angel,
thanx for sat. nite 
i havent had anything like that 
in a long time
next time ill make sure we have 
candles ...
duey
The story of my life:
I was born screaming, bald, and 
confused.
The only difference 19 years has 
made is that Im no longer bald.
bunky, 
youre sexy, 
amor avia?.
Mr. O
Lover,
A double bed, candles, soft 
music  peace, quiet, and 
privacy! We can always hope ...
kiss kiss hugg hugg, 
your Princess
To my peaceful easy feeling, 
Thanks for being you
Rebecca,
someone wants to get to know 
you ...
Z,
Youre attractive, fun to be 
around and have a great person
ality, so the next time a guy at 
CMU doesnt want to go out 
with you its not because there is 
something wrong with you, but 
because there is something 
wrong with them. And remem
ber not all guys suck, just most 
of them.
E
GT! GT! No, Not Another 
One!!!! No More GTs  
please! ok ... ok ... fine ... yeah, 
dont worry about it... fine go 
ahead ... no ... really ... its ok 
... go ahead ...
Bozo: Do you guys think that 
promising ******* major likes
Q :
Gruff
Give me that moustache.
S.L. & P.Q.: Shut the fuck up, 
bitch. We dont care. And if you 
must know, NO!! Hes never 
going to sleep with you again!!!
The thought of her fat butt 
spread over the elevator floor 
makes me sick.
Anne,
I have never feared mortals. Why 
should I start now?
Love, Lestat 
P.S. Fangs speak louder than 
words ...
In the BALLS? Well, slap her tits 
(or does she like that?)
Dawn,
Trust me. Youre the ONLY one 
I love now.
Hey Doc!
Dont read over my shoulder ... 
its very annoying.
love and kisses, 
hellbenders dead
Sigma Gamma Iota  1st 
meeting  10/31 in the 
Presidents Room  topics for 
discussion: l)New initiates,
2) Alumni/ Alumnae
Teenage Mutant Ninja Techies, 
Was that IM soccer or IM mud 
wrestling? Good luck, youll 
need it.
Splinter/Dad
You never know what may 
happen ... You may discover 
you have a fatal illness ... When 
you decide you want what I have 
to give, call. And remember 
please, Im not saying Ill give it 
to you. I may never do that. Im 
only saying that when you 
decide you want it, then the 
dialogue will begin ...
Lestat de Lioncourt
JB,
Ive got a secret.
The qualities of a good man:
#1: Honesty
#2: Good hygiene habits
... more to come ...
Lets all stand out in the middle 
of a busy street this weekend and 
collect money for the fraternities 
to buy their own furniture.
Jaws,
Thanks for pushing me in front 
of the bus. Unfortunately, I 
moved in time.
Bam Bam
You just made it go Doing!
DORK??? Cmon, how bout 
something cleverer, like ... 
super-dork! oh, and show 
yourself, coward.
super-dork M.E.
Alex P.,
Happy 2 months. Where are my 
roses? 
Dulci
To The Girl With the Sexy 
Teeth:
Gruff is sexier than Meow.
See, Jodi, I was going to get 
around to it someday. I just 
hope I show it to you before 
the end of the century.
First & hopefully next
I saw through a haze a 
drunken cow. And Heaven 
knows Im miserable now.
Just shoot me now.
a junior Mech E
Dingle smells, Dingle smells 
Dingle smells all day 
Oh what fun it is to smell 
Dingle everyday.
Clyde: I want more sex parts! 
Gage: Well, see a doctor.
tod the scot mat whore fire at 
the missing do flat. I your shit 
eats a missing bed wart, pass tn< 
banana fuck by the mood fileAuthor Gagi
Banana man has a new name: . 
R.P.
Quit playing with my fla^ ^,
